


m 



ANNUAL llEPORT 



BOARD OF REGENTS 



SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 



SHOWING 



THE OPERATIONS, EXPENDITURES, AND CONDITION 
OF THE INSTITUTION 



YEAR ENDING JUNE 30. 1886. 



PART I. 



WASHINGTON: 

GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE. 

1889, 



LETTER 

FROM THIC 

SECRETARY OF THE SMlTHSOiNIAN INSTITUTION, 



ACCOMPANYING 



The annual report oftlie Board of Regents of that Institution to the end of 

June, 188G. 



Smithsonian Institution, 

Washington, J). C, July 1, ISSC. 

SiE : In accordance with section 5593 of the Eevised Statutes of the 
United States, I have the honor, in behalf of tlie Board of Regents, to 
submit to Congress the annual report of the operations, expenditures, 
and condition of the Smithsonian Institution for the year ending June 
30, 18SG. 

I have the honor to b(?, very respectfully, your oix'dient servant, 

Spencer F, P.aird, 
Secretary Sinithsouian Institution. 
Hon. John Sheeman, 

President of the Senate, pro tern. 
Hon. John G. Carlisle, 

Speaker of the House of Rcprescntatices. 



ANNUAL REPORT OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION TO THE 
END OF JUNE, 1886. 



SUBJECTS 



1. Proceedings of the Board of Regents for the session of January, 
1886. 

2. Keport of the Executive Committee, exhibiting the financial affairs 
of the Institution, including a statement of the Smithson fund, and re- 
ceipts and expenditures for the year 1885-'86. 

3. Annual report of the Secretary, giviug an account of the operations 
and condition of the Institution for the year 1885-'86, with the statistics 
of collections, exchanges, etc. 

■4. General appendix, comprising a selection of miscellaneous memoirs 
of interest to collaborators and correspondents of the Institution, 
teachers, and others engaged in the promotion of knowledge. 



The report of the ]Srational Museum for the year 1885-'86 will be pub- 
lished in a separate volume. 

IV 



CONTENTS. 



Pago. 

Resolution of Congress to print extra copies of tlie Re^wrt ^ ii 

Letter from the Secretary, submitting the Annual Report of the Regents to 

Congress m 

General subjects of the Annual Report iv 

Contents of the Report v 

List of Illustrations viii 

Members ex officio of the Establishment ix 

Regents of the Smithsonian Institution X 

Journal of Proceedings op the Board of Rkgents xi 

Report of the Executive Committee for the year 1885-86 xv 

Condition of the funds July 1, 1886 '. xv 

Receipts for the year xv 

Expenditures for the year xv 

Repayments xvi 

Estimates for the year 1886-87 xvii 

National Museum appropriations by Congress Xvii 

Appropriations for Ethnology xvii 

Appropriations for Exchanges xvii 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

The Smithsonian Institution 1 

The Board of Regents 2 

Re-election of Regents whose term had expired 2 

New member elected , 2 

Change in the Executive Committee 2 

Portraits of Regents received 2 

Portraits of Regents still desired 2 

Finances 3 

Receipts and expenditures 3 

Condition of the fund July 1, 1886 3 

Buildings 3 

Smithsonian building and adjuncts 3 

Importance of a rejdacement of the annex building 4 

Pressing necessity for additional museum building 4 

Explorations 5 

Arctic America 5 

Alaska 6 

Washington Territory 7 

Rocky Mountain region 7 

V 



VI CONTENTS. 

The Smithsonian Institutiox— Continued. 

Explorations— Continued. p^^ 

Montana 7 

California g 

Arizona g 

New Mexico , g 

Atlantic coast of the United States 9 

Mexico and Central America 9 



Asia 



10 



Publications 1 n 

Classes of publications n 

Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge H 

Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections 12 

List of institutions in United States receiving publications 

Catalogue of scientific and technical periodicals 12 

Scientific writings of Joseph Henry 13 

List of foreign correspondents of the Institution 14 

Numerous miscellaneous publications 14 

Bulletins of the U. S. National Museum 15 

Bulletin No. 23 !'.*.!.!.].!! 15 

Bulletin No. 28 ..."!".'." ir> 

Bulletin No. 30 _""_' jg 

Proceedings of the National Museum 17 

Volume VIII completed 17 

Smithsonian Annual Eeport 17 

Ordered in two octavo volumes Ig 

Report for 1884, part I (Smithsonian) 18 

Report for 1884, part II (National Museum) 18 

Publications of the Bureau of Ethnology 19 

Third annual report 1() 

International exchanges I9 

Statistics j9 

Foreign exchanges for the fiscal year 20 

Domestic exchanges 20 

Government exchanges 20 

Assistance by Government 20 

Transportation facilities 21 

Extension of Government exchanges 22 

Relation to the Library of Congress 23 

Library of the Institution 24 

Additions for the fiscal year 25 

United States National Museum 26 

Rapid development of the Museum 26 

Future growth of the Museum 27 

Sketch of the origin of the Museum 28 

Recent organization of departments of curatorships 29 

Number of accessions received during the fiscal year :{0 

Operations of the Museum for the year 31 

Present organization of the various departments 33 

Department of Arts and Industries 33 

Department of Ethnology 3g 

Sub-department of American Aboriginal Pottery 37 



CONTENTS. VII 

United States National Museum— Continued. 

Present organization of the various departments— Continued. Page. 

Department of Archteology 38 

Department of Mammals 39 

Department of Birds 39 

Sub-department of Oology 41 

Department of Eeptiles and Batracliians 41 

Department of Fishes. 41 

Department of Mollusks 43 

Department of Entomology 44 

Department of Marino Invertebrates 4o 

Department of Comparative Anatomy 46 

Department of Invertebrate Fossils 46 

Paleozoic Section 46 

Mesozoic Section 47 

Cenozoic Section 47 

Department of Fossil Plants 47 

Department of Eecent Plants 47 

Department of Minerals 43 

Department of Lithology and Physical Geology 49 

Department of Metalhirgy and Economic Geology - 50 

Bureau of Ethnology ^1 

Field-wort ^^ 

Office-work ^^ 

United States Geological Survey - 68 

Geography • "° 

Geology - ^ 

Palaeontology • '" 

Miscellaneous - '° 

United States Fish Commission • ^^ 

Expansion of operations °" 

Increase of shipping equipment °" 

Extension of " iish-culture " "^ 

Appendix to the Keport of the Secretary ^3 

Report on exchanges to June 30, 1885 - °3 

Receipts of packages for distribution "4 

-LI • 84 

1 oreign - °^ 

Domestic °4 

Government ""^ 

Transmissions of packages - °^ 

Foreign °" 

Domestic °' 

Government -- "" 

Countries of distribution - "° 

Agencies - --- ^'^ 

Government documents .-- - - ^^^ 

Correspondence relative to foreign exchanges , ■--- 1"* 



VIII CONTENTS. 



GENERAL APPENDIX. 

Pago. 

Papers relating to Anthropology 205 

The Eay Collection from Hupa Reservation, by Otis T. Mason 205 

A Navajo Artist, by R. W. Shnfeldt 240 

Notes on Customs of the Dakotahs, by Paul Beckwith 245 

Atuatanas, Natives of Copper River, Alaska, by Henry T. Allen 253 

Indians of theQuinaielt Agency (Washington Territory), byC. Willoughby. 267 

The Stone Age of Oregon, by M. Eells 283 

Charm stones, or "Plummets" from California, by Lorenzo G. Yates 296 

Studies on tho Archajology of Michoacan, Mexico, by Nicolas Leon 306 

On some Spurious Mexican Antiquities, by William H. Holmes 319 

Earth-works at Fort Ancient, Ohio, by W. M. Thompson 335 

Miscellaneous i^apers 339 

On Certain Parasites, Commensals, and Domiciliares in the Pearl Oysters, 

by R. E.G. Stearns 339 

Time-Reckoning for the Twentieth Century, by Saudford Fleming 345 

Report on Astronomical Observatories, by George H. Boohmer , 367 

Catalogue of Publications of the Smithsonian Institution, by William J. Rhees. 485 

Index to the volume 869 



LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS. 

The Ray Collection from Hupa Reservation, 26 plates of 118 figures. 

A Navajo Artist, 3 figures. 

Indians of the Quinaiolt Agency, 7 figures. 

Charm stones or " Plummets," 4 plates of 34 figures. 

Archaeology of Michoacan, 1 'figure. 

Some spurious Mexican Antiquities, 18 figures. 

Earth-works at Fort Ancient, Ohio, 1 figure. 

Parasites, etc. in the Pearl Oysters, 3 plates of 5 figures. 

Time-Reckoning for the Twentieth Century, 2 figures. 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 



MEMBERS EX OFFICIO OP THE "ESTABLISHMENT." 

(January, 188G.) 



GEOVER CLEVELAND, President of the United States. 
JOHN SHERMAN, President of tlie United States Senate. 
MORRISON R. WAITE, Chief- Justice of the United States. 
THOMAS F. BAYARD, Secretary of State. 
DANIEL MANNING, Secretary of the Treasury, 
WILLIAM C. ENDICOTT, Secretary of War. 
WILLIAM C. WHITNEY, Secretary of the Navy. 
WILLIAM F. VILAS, Postmaster-General. 
LUCIUS Q. C. LAMAR, Secretary of the Interior. 
AUGUSTUS H. GARLAND, Attorney- General. 
MARTIN V. MONTGOMERY, Commissioner of Patents. 



EEGENTS OF THE INSTITUTION. 

(Full list given on the following page.) 



OFFICERS OF THE INSTITUTION. 

SPENCER F. BAIED, Secretary, 
Director of the Institution, and of the U. S. National Mnseum. 

William J. Rheks, Chief Clerk. 

IX 



REGENTS OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 



By the organizing act approved August 10, 1846 (Revised Statutes, 
title Lxxiii, section 5580), "The business of the Institution shall be 
conducted at the city of Washington by a Board of Eegents, named 
the Regents of the Smithsonian Institution, to be composed of the 
Vice-President, the Ghief-Justice of the United States [and the Gov- 
ernor of the District of Columbia], three members of the Senate, and 
three members of the House of Representatives, together with six 
other persons, other than members of Congress, two of whom shall be 
resident in the city of Washington, and the other four shall be iidiab- 
itants of some State, but no two of the same State." 



REGENTS FOB THE YEAR 1886. 

. Term expiroa. 
The Vice-President of the United States: 

JOHN SHERMAN (elected President of Senate Dec. 7, 1885). 

The Chief- Justice of the United States: 
MORRISON K. WAITE. 

United States Senators: 

SAMUEL B. M AXE Y (appointed May 19, 1881) Mar. 3, 1887 

JUSTIN S. MORRILL (appointed February 21, 1883) Mar. 3, 1891 

SHELBY M. CULLOM (appointed March 23, 1885) Mar. 3, 1889 

Members of the House of Representatives: 

OTHO R. SINGLETON (appointed January 12, 1886) Dec. 28, 1887 

WILLIAM L. WILSON (appointed January 12, 1886) Dec. 28, 1887 

WILLIAM W. PHELPS (appointed January 12, 1886) Dec. 28, 1887 

Citizens of Washington: 

JAMES C. WELLING (appointed May 13, 1884) May 13, 1890 

MONTGOMERY C. MEIGS (appointed December 26, 1885) Dec. 26, 1891 

Citizens of a State: 

JOHN MACLEAN, of Nevr Jersey (first appointed in 1868) . Dec. 26, 1891 

ASA GRAY, of Massachusetts (first appointed in 1874) Dec. 26, 1891 

HENRY C0PP£E, of Pennsylvania (first appointed in 1874) Dec. 26, 1891 

NOAH PORTER, of Connecticut (first appointed in 1878) Mar. 3, 1890 



MORRISON R. WAITE, Chancellor of the Institution and President of the Board of 

Regents. 



Executive Committee of the Board of Regevts. 
James C. Welling. IIb:nry CoppifiB. MoNTOOMEnrr C. Meigs. 



JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS OF 
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 



Washington, January 13, 1886. 

In accordance with a resolution of the Board of Regents of the Sinitli- 
soniau Institution fixing the time of the annual session on the second 
Wednesday in January of each year, the Board met this day at 10 
o'clock A. M. 

Present: The Chancellor, Chief- Justice Morrison R. Waite ; Hon. 
Samuel B. Maxey, Hon. Justin S. Morrill, Hon. Otho R. Single- 
ton, Hon. William L. Wilson, Hon. William W. Phelps, Dr. Asa 
Gray, Dr. IsToah Porter, Dr. Henry Copp^e, Dr. James C. Well- 
ing, General Montgomery C. Meigs, and the Secretary, Prof. Spen- 
cer F. Baird. 

Excuses for non-attendance were read from Dr. John Maclean and 
Senators Sherman and Cullom. 

The Chancellor announced the election of Senator John Sherman as 
President ^ro tempore of the Senate on the 7th December, 1885, which 
placed his name on the Beard of Regents as acting Vice-President of 
the United States. 

He, also announced the aj^pointment by the Vice-President (Hon. 
Thomas A. Hendricks), on the 23d of March, 1885, of Hon. Shelby M. 
Cullom, of Illinois, vice Hon. IST. P. Hill, whose term as a Senator had 
expired. 

The Chancellor announced the re-appointment as Regents, by joint 
resolution of Congress, December 26, 1885, of Dr. J. Maclean, Dr. A. 
Gray, and Dr. H. Copp6e, whose terms had expired, and the appoint- 
ment of General M. C. Meigs, vice General Sherman, whose terra had 
expired, and who was no longer a citizen of Washington. 

He also announced the appointment by the Speaker of the House of 
Representatives (Hon. J. G. Carlisle), on thel2fch January, 1886; of Hon. 
O. R. Singleton, Hon. W. L. Wilson, and Hon. W. W. Phelps, as 
Regents for the term of the Forty-ninth Congress. 

The Secretary stated, in accordance with the rules of the Board dur- 
ing its recess, the remaining members of the Executive Committee had 
filled the vacancy occasioned by the expiration of the term of service as 
a Reg-ent of General Sherman, by the appointment, in June, 1885, of Dr. 
Copp6e. 

On motion of Mr. Singleton, it was — 

Resolved., That Dr. Henry Copp(5e be elected to fill the vacancy in the 
Executive Committee. 

XI 



XII JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS. 

The following letter was read : 

Princeion, N. J., January 9, 18SG. 
To the Chancellor and Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution : 

Gentlemen : The undersigned, having been for seventeen years n 
member of the Executive Committee, most respectfully requests of you 
the favor to be released from further service on this committee. 

He makes this, request with the less reluctance, as he is confident 
that his place upon the committee can be readily supplied. 
With tbe highest respect, yours, 

John Maclean. 

On motion of Mr. Singleton, it was — 

Eesolved, That tbe resignation of Dr. Maclean from the Executive 
Committee be accepted, and that General Montgomery C. Meigs be 
elected to fill the vacancy. 

Ou motion of Dr. Gray, it was — 

Resolved, That Dr. James 0. Welling be, and he hereby is, appointed 
chairman of the Executive Committee. 

Dr. Welling i)resented the report of the Executiv&Committee for the 
six months ending 30th June, 1885, which was read. 

L n motion of Dr. Gray, it was — 

Resolved, That the report of the Executive Committee be accepted. 

The Secretary presented his report of the operations and condition 
of the Institution for the six months ending 30th June, 1885, which, in 
accordance with the instructions of the Board at its last meeting, had 
been printed and distributed to the Eegents. 

On motion, it was — 

Resolved, That the report of the Secretary be received. 

The Secretary presented an exhibit of the finances of the Institution 
for the year 1885, showing the receipts to have beeu $67,560.84, the 
expenditures $45,102.77, leaving a balance on the 1st of January, 1886, 
of $22,458.07. 

Dr. Welling stated that it was the understanding of the Executive 
Committee that the Board required hereafter an annual report for the 
fiscal year terminating on the 30th of June of each year, and that while 
it had carefully examined all the accounts of the Institution to the be- 
ginning of the year 1886 and had verified the statement exhibited by 
the Secretary, it was not considered that a further report was called for 
at the present time. 

The following letter was read : 

Washington, D. C, September 1, 1885. 
Prof. Spencer, F. Baird, 

Secretary Smithsonian Institution : 
Dear Sir: I am desirous of placing at least a portion of my prop- 
erty, essentially all which is an inheritance from my father, in a posi- 
tion in which it may be of permanent service for the advancement of 
knowledge. I have always devoted so much of it as I did not need for 
my maintenance and education to that purpose. It occurs to me that if 



JOURNAL OF PEOCEEDINGS. XIII 

J could make an arrangement with the Smithsonian Institution by which 
I might not sacrifice my own needs while living and my duty to my wife 
or to my children (if 1 should have any), after my death, I might ac- 
complish the cud which I desire. I throw out the following as a sketch 
of what I think might be feasible : As the Institution receives, and I sup- 
pose will always receive, 6 per cent, for its investments with the Govern- 
ment, I might transfer to it a sura of money for which I should receive 
au income of say 5 per cent, during my life and the life of my wife, or 
until my children (if I had any) arrived at an age such that they might 
provide for themselves. The other 1 per cent, would accrue to the 
Institution in the mean time, and the whole eventually, as compensa- 
tion for the making of this arrangement. Whether that should be 
devoted to a specftic object or to the general purposes of the Institution 
might be a matter for further consideration. 
Kespectfully, 

B. PicKMAN Mann. 

The Chancellor and several of the Kegeuts having expressed their 
opinion that such a propo sition could not be accepted by the Institu- 
tion, on motion of Mr. Wilson the communication was referred to the 
Executive Committee. 

The Secretary presented a statement relative to the bequest of the 
late Eev. Alex. G. Mercer, of Newport, E. I. 

This gentleman died on the 3d November, 1882, and left property to 
the amount of about a million dollars. After the decease of certain 
beneficiaries the property is to be divided into three parts, of which 
one part is to be administered by a board consisting of the President 
of Harvard University, the President of Yale College, and the Secre- 
tary of the Smithsonian Institution, together with three other individ- 
uals mentioned in the will, or their survivors, "to establish scholarships 
or foundations in such colleges as they may select, for the benefit of 
such poor students as have passed through some of the public schools 
with the best reputation for character and ability." 

The Chancellor presented a letter from the family of the late Pro- 
fessor Henry relative to the ijublication of his scientific writings. 

On motion of Dr. Porter, the communication was referred to Dr. Gray 
and the Executive Committee. 

Dr. Gray called attention to the fact that provision had not yet been 
made for the estimates and apjiropriations for the ensuing year. 

On motion of Dr. Welling, it was — 

Resolved, That the income of the Institution for the six months end- 
ing 30th June, 1886, and for the twelve months ending 30th June, 1887, 
be expended by the Secretary, with full discretion as to the items, sub- 
ject to the approval of the Executive Committee. 

On motion, the Board adjourned sine die. 



REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE OF THE BOARD OF 
REGENTS OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 



The Executive Committee of the Board of Eegents of the Smithsonian 
Institution respectfully submits the following report in relation to the 
funds of the Institution, the appropriations by Congress for the National 
Museum and other purposes, and the receipts and expenditures for the 
Institution and the Museum, for the year ending June 30, 188G. 

Conditien of the fund July 1, 1886. 

The amount of the bequest of James Smitbsou deposited in the Treas- 
ury of the United States, according to the act of Congress of August 
10, 1846, was $515,169. To this was added, by authority of Congress, 
act of February 8, 1867, the residuary legacy of Smithson and savings 
from annual income and other sources, $131,831. To this $1,000 was 
added by a bequest of James Hamilton, $500 by a bequest of Simeon 
Habel, and $51,500 as the proceeds of the sale of Virginia bonds owned 
by the Institution, making, in all, as the permanent Smithson fund in 
the United States Treasury, $703,000. 

Statement of the receipts and expenditures of the Smithsonian Institution^ 
July 1, 1885, to June 30, 1886. 

RECEIPTS. 

Casli ou haud July 1, 1885 |23, 746. 82 

Interest ou the fund, July 1, 1885, to July 1, 1886 42, 180.00 

,$65, 926. 82 

EXPENDITURES. 

Building : 

Repairs aud improvements |1, 526. 83 

Furniture and fixtures 1,847. 73 

3, 374. 56 

General expenses : 

Meetings of tlie Board 287.50 

Postage and telegraph 280. 06 

Stationery 433.20 

General printing, blanks, etc • 267.84 

Incidentals, gas, etc 475.28 

Books, periodicals, and binding 1,174.09 

Salaries — Secretary, clerks, and labor 19, 310. 33 

22,228.30 

Publications and researches : 

Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge 2,378.03 

Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections 5, 260. 86 

Smithsonian Annual Eeport 3,971.47 

Explorations 1,724.52 

Apparatus 199. n 

13, 533. 99 

XV 



XVI REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE. 

Exchanges : 
Literary and scientific exchanges (in addition to |10,000 ap- 
propriated by Congress) $2,005.80 

Total expenditures $41,142.65 

Cash on hand July 1, 1886 24,784. 17 

The Institution has received from individuals certain funds for con- 
ducting special researches or making collections, namely : 

From M. K. Jesup, of New York, for collection of iish casts. .. $727. 00 

Of which have been expended $712.71 

For collection of building stones 2, 500. 00 

Of which have been expended 2,427.08 

3, 227. 00 3, 139. 79 

Leaving balance, July 1, 1886 87. 21 

From Jed. Hotchkiss, of Virginia, for special research on coke 1»0. 00 

Of which have been expended 112.72 

Leaving balance July 1, 1886 37. 28 

REPAYMENTS. 

The Institution, as in former years, has made temporary advances for 
the payment of freight on Government collections, etc., the repayments 
of which, together with the amount received from sales of the publica- 
tions of the Institution, etc., have been deducted from the several items 
of the foregoing expenditures, as follows : 

From cost of books $3. 45 

From exchanges 4,090.68 

From explorations »nd researches 907. 57 

Fr»m furniture 4.16 

From general printing .90 

From incidentals 140. 90 

From postage and telegraph 48. 54 

$5,196.20 

From sales of publications : 

Contributions to Knowledge 177. 90 

Miscellaneous Collections 349.64 

Reports 14.92 

542. 46 

5, 738. 66 

Exhibit of the condition of the appropriations by Congress for the Smith- 
s»nian Institution and National Museum, July 1, 1886. 



Smithsonian Institution. 



International exchanges, 1886 
Ethnological researches, 1885 
Ethnological researches, 1886 , 



Balances 
July 1, 1885. 



$1, 358. 92 



Appropria- 
tion for 

1885-'86. 



$10, 000. 00 



40, 000. 00 



Expended 
to June 30, 

1886. 



$10, 000. 00 

1, 358. 82 

39, 130. 87 



Balances, 
July 1, 

1886. 



$869. 13 



KEPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE. 



XVII 



An appropriation of $K),000 was made by Congress for the fiscal year 
ending oOtli June, 188G, for the prosecution of ethnological researches 
under the direction of the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution. 
The actual conduct of these investigations has been placed by the Sec- 
retary in the hands of Maj. J. W. Powell, Director of the Geological 
Survey. The abstracts of expenditures and balance sheets have been 
exhibited to us ; the vouchers for the expenditures are, however, trans- 
mitted, after approval by Professor Baird, to the accounting officers of 
the Treasury Department for settlement. 

The balance available to meet outstanding liabilities on the 1st of 
July, 1886, as reported by the official disbursing agent, is $8G9.13. 



National Museum. 



Preservation of collections, 1885 

Preservation of collections, 1885-86 

Preservation of collections, 1886 

Armory building, 1885 

Armory building, 1886 

Furniture and fixtures, 1885 

Furniture and fixtures, 188S 

New building, sidewalk, 1885 



Balances 
July 1, 1885. 



$4, 855. 56 



8.25 
'i^786."46' 

'i,'o66.'6o' 



Appropria- 
tion for 

1885-'86. 



$7, 500. 00 
104,000.00 



2, 500. 00 

46,6oo.'oo' 



Expended 
to June :50, 

1886. 



$4, 853. 56 

7, 446. 12 

102, 158. 39 



2, 285. 46 

1,7«6.24 

35, 9S7. 16 

898. 62 



Balances 
July 1, 

1886. 



$2. 00 

53. 88 

1,841.61 

8.25 

214. 54 

.16 

4,012,84 

101. 38 



KECAPITULATION. 

The total amount of the funds administered by the Institution during 
the year ending 30th of June, 188G, appears from the foregoing state- 
ments and the account-books to have been as follows : 

Smithsonian Institution. 

From interest on the Smitlison fund $42, 180. 00 

From balance of last j ')ar 23,746.82 

$65, 926. 8? 

From M. K. Jesup for ctUections 3, 227. 00 

From J. Hotcbkiss for research 150. 00 

From repayments for freight, exploration, etc - 5, 196. 20 

From sales of Smithsonian publications 542.46 

APPROPRIATIONS COMMITTED BY CONGRESS TO THE CARE OF THE INSTI- 
TUTION FOR THE YEAR 1886, AND BALANCES FOR 1885. 

International exchanges 10, 000. 00 

Ethnological researches 41,358.92 

Preservation of collections 116,355.56 

Preservation of collections, Armory 2, 508. 25 

Furniture and fixtures 41, 786. 40 

Museum building, sidewalk 1,000.00 



H. Mis. 170- 



-II 



287, 551. 61 



XVIII EEPOKT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE. 

The committee has examined the vouchers for payments made from 
the Smithson income during the year ending 30th June, 1886, all of 
which bear the api)roval of the Secretary of the Institution, and a cer- 
tificate that the materials and services charged were applied to the pur- 
poses of the Institution. 

The committee has also examined the accounts of the National Mu- 
seum, and find that the balances above given correspond with the cer- 
tificates of the disbursing officers of the Interior and Treasury Depart- 
ments. 

The quarterly accounts-current, the vouchers, and journals have been 
examined and found correct. 
Respectfully submitted. 

James C. Welling, 
Henry Coppee, 
M. 0. Meigs, 

Executive Committee. 
Washington, December 3, 1886. 



REPORT OF PROFESSOR RAIRD, 

SECRETAEY OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION: 

For the year ending Jun^ 30, 188G. 



To the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution : 

Gentlemen : I have tbo honor to present herewith the rex)ort of the 
operations and condition of the Smithsonian Institution for the year 
1885-'8G. In accordance with the resolutions adopted by the Board at 
its meeting held January 21, 1885, that the fiscal year of the Institution 
shall hereafter terminate on the SOth day of June in each year, and the 
annual report of the Secretary shall hereafter be prepared, printed, 
and sent to each member of the Board on or before the 1st day of De- 
cember in each year, the present report covers the period from July 1, 
1885, to the close of June, 188G. 

As heretofore, this report includes, in addition to the account of the 
operations of the Institution itself, a summary of the work performed 
by the branches of the public service placed by Congress under its 
charge, namely, the National Museum and the Bureau of Ethnology. 
To this will be added a sketch of the work of the United States Fish 
Commission, which is also under my charge, and of that of the United 
States Geological Survey (kindly furnished by its Director), which, al- 
though entirely independent of the Smithsonian Institution, is yet in 
close relation with it by reason of its field of exploration, and especially 
through the valuable accessions of material furnished by it to the Na- 
tional Museum. 

THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 

inteoductory. 

No event of special importance has occurred during the year, the 
usual operations of the Institution having been steadily carried on, but 
with a marked increase in routine work. The system of international 
exchanges formerly conducted with only two assistants has lately re- 
quired the constant labor of nine and at times of several more em- 
ployes. The correspondence which at one time was carried on by the 

1 
H. Mis. 170 1 



2 REPOKT OF THE SECRETAEY. 

Secretary and one clerk now occupies a great part of the time of five 
l)ersons. The accounts in like manner Lave gradually demanded more 
attention, as have all the other departments of work. 

THE BOARD OF REGENTS. 

Senator George F. Edmunds having ceased to be President 2'>'o tem- 
pore of the United States Senate, Hon. John Sherman was elected on the 
7th December, 1885, to that office, and in accordance with the precedents 
established, was placed on the list of Eegents as Acting Vice-Presi- 
dent. 

On the 2Gth of December, 1885, a joint resolution of Congress was ap- 
proved by the President of the United States re-electing as Regents for 
six years, Dr. John Maclean, of Princeton, N. J., Dr. Asa Gray, of Cam- 
bridge, Mass., and Dr. Henry Coppde, of Bethlehem, Pa. The same 
resolution elected General Montgomery C. Meigs, of Washington, D. 
C, in place of General William T. Sherman, whose term had exi)ired, and 
who was no longer eligible as a Regent from Washington on account of 
his change of residence to Saint Louis, Mo. 

The vacancy in the Executive Committee, occasioned by the expira- 
tion of General Sherman's term, was filled by resolution of the Regents 
on the 13th of January, 1886, by the election of Dr. H. Coppde ; and 
Dr. Maclean having resigned from his place on the committee, the Re- 
gents at the same meeting elected General Meigs to fill the vacancy. 

Dr. James C. Welling was made chairman of the Executive Com- 
mittee. 

On the 12th of January, 1886, the Speaker of the House, Hon. J. G. 
Carlisle, re-appointed as Regents, Hon. Otho R. Singleton, of Mississippi, 
Hon. William L. Wilson, of West Virginia, and Hon. William Walter 
Phelps, of New Jersey. 

Portraits of the Eegents. — Efibrts have been made during the year to 
complete the collection of likenesses of all who have served as its Re- 
gents, and there have been added to the collection a crayon portrait of 
Prof. Alex. D, Bache, by H. Ulke, a fine lithograph of Hon. John W. 
Maury, formerly mayor of the city of Washington, and a photograi)h of 
Hon. Walter Lenox, also mayor of Washington. 

We still desire likenesses of the following Regents : 

Hon. G. E. Badger, of North Carolina, 1856-1803; Hon. R. M. CharL-' 
ton, of Georgia, 1852-1853 ; Hon. W. P. Colcock, of Georgia, 1850-1853 j 
Hon. Shelby M. Cullom, of Illinois, 1 885-18865 Hon. D. Davis, of Illi- 
nois, 1881-1883; Hon. Garret Davis, of Kentucky, 1803-1872; Hon. 
Henry W. Davis, of Maryland, 1803-1805; Hon. Gideon Hawley, of 
New York, 1840-1855 ; Hon. William I. Hough, of New York, 1810- 
1847; Hon. George P. Marsh, of Vermont, 1847-1849; Hon. Benjamin 
Stanton, of Ohio, 1850-1861; Hon. David Stuart, ofMichigan, 1853- 
1855. 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 6 

FINANCES. 

There is no change to be reported in the financial condition of the 
Institution. The fund remains the same, viz, $703,000, permanently 
deposited in the Treasury of the United States according to the acts 
of Congress of August 10, 1846, and February 8, 1867. 

The receipts and expenditures for the year ending 30th June, 1880, 
are as follows : 

KECEIPTS. 

Cash on hand, July 1, 1885 $23, 740 82 

Interest received, July 1, 1885, to July 1, 1886 . . 42, 180 00 

$65, 920 82 

EXPENDITUKES. 

Building, furniture, and fixtures $3, 374 56 

General expenses, salaries, &c 22, 228 30 

Publications and researches 13, 533 99 

Literary and scientific exchanges 2, 005 80 

Total exi)enditure 41, 142 65 

Balance, cash on hand $24, 784 17 

This balance will be required for the current operations of the Insti- 
tution for the ensuing six months. 

The necessity for compliance with the usual requirements of Govern- 
ment service does not exist in the operations of the Institution, for the 
accounts are audited only by its executive committee and all expenditures 
are controlled by the Secretary. It has been deemed proper, however, 
to throw all the safeguards possible around the financial operations, so 
that anything like defalcation or peculation should be rendered impos- 
sible. 

The appropriations made by Congress for the Museum, international 
exchanges, &c., in charge of the Smithsonian Institution have been 
disbursed as usual by officers of the Interior and Treasury Dei^art- 
ments, the vouchers receiving examination and approval of the proper 
Auditor and Comptroller. A full account of the expenditures of the 
Institution is given in the report of the Executive Committee. ' 

BUILDINGS. 

There is not much to say in regard to the subject of the buildings in 
charge of the Smithsonian Institution. No material alterations have 
taken place in the series, consisting of the Smithsonian central build- 
ing, the National Museum building, the Armory building, the Labor- 
atory building, and the Annex building. The last-mentioned edifice 
was constructed for the purpose of making up the exhibit for the New 
Orleans Exposition, and has been necessarily continued in use in the 



4 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

lack of other accommodations for the oflQces housed therein ; esi)ecially 
that of the chief taxidermist and his assistants; the chief osteologist 
and his assistant; and other persons connected with the work of pre- 
paring and mounting specimens; and the preparators of the Ethnolog- 
ical Bureau charged with the reproduction of miniature models of the 
various Pueblo villages in Arizona and New Slexico. This building is 
also used for the storage of vast numbers of collections, including hun- 
dreds of tons of fossils collected by the United States Geological Sur- 
vey. 

The erection of a building for the accommodation of the Library, Mu- 
seum, and Eecords of the Medical Department of the Army, renders it 
very desirable that provision should be made elsewhere for the service 
of this Annex building, as it is extremely combustible, and should it 
take fire, with the wind blowing from the westward, the flames would 
actually come in contact with the Army Medical Museum, and could not 
fail to penetrate the windows and doors, with great danger to its con- 
tents. Unfortunately such is the present crowded condition of all our 
receptacles, that it is impossible to find quarters elsewhere, either for 
the ofiices mentioned or for the collections. 

Some years ago, the Board of Eegents authorized the application to 
Congress for an appropriation for the construction of a second Mu- 
seum building, to be placed on the west side of the Smithsonian resei*v- 
ation, and to correspond with the present building on the east side- 
the object being to accommodate, in i)art at least, the enormous accu- 
mulations of valuable material partly acquired at the Centennial, and 
in i)art obtained at the New Orleans Exposition, and under other cir- 
cumstances. A new building equal in size to the present one would 
scarcely furnish the accommodations needed ; and, as the Government 
collections are increasing year by year, by donations of foreign govern- 
ments, «&c., it is difficult to express with sufficient force the necessity 
for additional quarters. 

The National Museum building was erected within the original esti- 
mate, at a cost of $250,000. It would be impossible at the present time 
to duplicate this building at that figure, and as special provision is de- 
sired for laboratories and offices, and to give suitable quarters to the 
U. S. Geological Survey and Ethnological Bureau, an estimate has been 
made of the sum of $250,000 for the purpose of constructing one wing 
and pavilion to accommodate the collections, leaving the remainder to 
be constructed hereafter, should Congress so approve it, at a cost of, 
Xierhaps, an additional $250,000. 

An estimate has been presented to Congress for several years, with- 
out receiving any attention, for the construction of a fire-proof build- 
ing for the accommodation of the alcoholic collections of fishes, rep- 
tiles, &c., belonging to the National Museum. 

Within a few years past the principal museums of Europe have been 
putting up such buildings, in view of the danger of destruction, not 



REPOET OF THE SECRETARY. O 

ouly of the specimens themselves, but of the other collectious, should 
fire break out among them. The new Museum building can, however, 
be so arranged as to furnish such accommodations and not involve any 
general danger. 

In this same connection it may be proper to state that strenuous 
efforts are now being made, and with apparent prospect of success, 
looking towards an exposition in 1892 — the four hundredth anniver- 
sary of the discovery of America by Columbus— of a complete illus- 
tration of the New World at that date, and of its progress in the arts 
and industries in the four hundred years intervening. The collections 
of the National Museum for the most part tend towards such a dis- 
play, and if the new building in question were at our command it 
would be a very easy matter to organize and arrange it with this ob- 
ject in view, without unnecessary labor or great expense, and by the 
date mentioned, as the result of the current work of the Museum, 
without any spasmodic or unusual effort. 

EXPLORATIONS. 

There is not so much to record in the way of explorations for the 
year 188G as has been the case in some previous years, duo mainly to 
the fact of the completion of work in many of the districts, and of 
the lack of sufficient means to inaugurate new enterprises of any 
magnitude. The closing and withdrawal from the outposts in Alaska 
and elsewhere of the U. S. Signal Service stations, have also cut off 
a large field of labor, many of the most important explorations hav- 
ing been conducted by the Smithsonian Institution in co-operation 
with that establishment. Confining itself, as it has done in the main, 
to North America as a field of research, the unknown portion, of 
course, has in the nearly forty years of effort on the part of the Insti- 
tution become greatly reduced. It is quite safe to say that to no es- 
tablishment or agency is the knowledge of the geograx)hy, ethnology, 
natural history, &c., of the continent more due than to the labors of 
the Smithsonian Institution. 

Congress having directed the preparation and submission to it an- 
nually of a separate and special report on the National Museum, a full 
statement of the agencies of explorations and exchange by which ac- 
cessions have been made will be found in the report of Mr. G. Brown 
Goode, the assistant director, and therefore a briefer mention than 
usual will be sufficient for the present occasion. 

Arctic America. — The last collections made by Mr. L. M. Turner, of 
the TJ. S. Signal Office, at Ungava Bay, in Northern Labrador, have 
been received, and he is now busily occupied in preparing his report on 
the region visited. It is safe to say that we owe more to Mr. Turner for 
our knowledge of Northern Labrador than to any other explorer or 
naturalist, and the results of Ins labor will be found to be of the high- 



6 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

est interest. Not couteut simply with, making collections of natural 
history, he has devoted much time to the study of the language and 
manners of the people, and his vocabularies and philological records 
are of the utmost i)ossible interest and importance. 

Alaslca. — One of the most i>roductive explorations of Alaska for some 
time past was that by Mr. Charles H. Townsend, sent out by the U. S. 
Fish Commission to make some investigations into the fur-seal fish- 
eries on the Pribyloff Islands, where he arrived in June, 1885. While 
there he accepted an invitation from Captain Healy, commander of the 
U. S. revenue steamer Concin, to accompany that vessel on its more 
northern voyage, by way of Saint Michael's and other points, and 
through Bering's Strait, finally entering Hotham Inlet in July. 
Here the steamer remained, while the steam launch, commanded by 
Lieutenant Cantwell and accompanied by Mr. Townsend, went on to 
the mouth of the Kowak and up the river to the head of navigation, a 
distance of about 350 miles. Abundance of pine fuel was found all 
along the route with which to supply the boilers of the launch. 

A largo collection of fishes, birds, mammals, and plants, with inter- 
esting objects of ethnology, was secured on this occasion. Mr. Town- 
send states that Lieutenant Cantwell found the source of the Kowak 
in a large lake among the mountains, nearly 450 miles from the sea — 
a lake swarming with lake trout of the same species as that in the 
northern i)arts of the United States and Canada. To the surprise of 
all, the region was found to be w^ell wooded, and abounding in many 
kinds of fur-bearing animals. About eighteen species of fish were 
secured. 

The Corwin was rejoined at Kotzebue Sound on September 1. 

Mr. Townsend's full report was transmitted to Captain Healy, to ac- 
company his report to the Secretary of the Treasury, of the cruise of 
the Corwin. 

By authority of the Treasury Department, and with the kind co- 
operation of the Alaska Commercial Company, ever ready to be ex- 
tended in the interest of science, Mr. Townsend obtained five complete 
sets of the fur seals, in all stages of sex and age. 

Captain Healy has continued, on his own account, the record of pre- 
vious years, by devoting such time as could conveniently be expended 
in his northward cruises, to the gathering of collections of fishes, &c., 
for the National Museum, all of which have come duly to hand. 

Mr. Henry D. Woolfe, in the employ of the Pacific Steam Whaling 
Company, has utilized his residence at Cape Lisburne, in gathering col- 
lections in ethnography and natural history, and has transmitted some 
very acceptable contributions which have been received, leaving others 
yet to come to hand. 

Mr. J. W. Johnson, United States signal observer at Nushagak, on 
Bristol Bay, in continuation of the highly valued labors of Mr. C. L. 



EEPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 7 

McKay, lias supplied much tbat was desirable in the way of bird- 
skins, Eskimo clotliing, stone relics, &c. By tLe withdrawal of most of 
the signal stations from Alaska, Mr. Johnson has been transferred to 
Port Huron, Mich., although it is expected that contributions will still 
be received from the station through the kind assistance of Mr. Chirk, 
the resident ofiScer of the Alaska Commercial Company. 

Mr. Grebnitsky, in charge of the Commander Islands off the coast of 
Kamchatka, whose kind assistance to Dr. Stejueger, during his stay 
in that region has been gratefully acknowledged, has continued to 
make quite extended transmissions of collections, including skeletons 
of mammals, alcoholic preparations of mammals, Inrds, crustaceans, 
&c., which are very much valued. 

From Capt. H. Vj. Nichols, commander of the U. B. S. Fiiita, and Dr. 
T. n. Streets, surgeon of the same vessel, stationed at Sitka, many im- 
portant collections in natural history" haA^e come to hand, while from 
Lieut. T. Dis Bolles, of the same service, have been received a number 
of ethnological objects of much interest. 

Washington Territory. — Mr. -James G. Swan, the veteran correspond- 
ent of the Smithsonian Institution at Puget Sound, lias continued his 
investigations and contributions through the year, the latter including 
numbers of articles prepared and used by the Indians for domestic 
purposes. 

Rocky Mountain Region, — A large collection of skins and eggs of birds 
was received from Capt. Charles P>endire. 

As explained elsewhere, this gentleman has been retired from actual 
service in the Army, after the proper term of service, at his ow^n request, 
and is now devoting himself as voluntary curator of oology to the 
building up and thorough organization of the collection of nests and 
eggs of birds, after presenting to the Museum his own magnificent cabi- 
net, perhajis the largest in the United States. He has the aid of all 
his correspondents towards completing the series, as also that of Dr. J. 
C. Merrill, who has likewise presented his entire cabinet of eggs. 

Montana. — The attention of the Smithsonian Institution has been 
called very impressively to the iuqjending extinction of the buffalo, and 
to the fact that the localities which, a few years ago, abounded in these 
animals are now almost without them. Indeed, the reduction in num- 
ber has been so rapid as to render it probable that it is a question of 
months rather than of years before they become extinct. 

Eealizing the fact that neither the National Museum nor the other 
museums of the country possess well-prepared siiecimens of the buffalo, 
and, desirous of securing a series before it is too late, the Institution 
determined to send its chief taxidermi.st, Mr. William T. Hornaday, 
with a party of assistants, to localities where the buffalo were still sup- 
posed to occur in small numbers, with the view of securing enough for 
the purposes in question. 



8 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

By the courteous aid of the Secretary of War and of the Adjutant- 
General, instructions were given to the commanders of military posts at 
Fort Keogh and Fort Maginnis, Mont., and Fort McKinney, Wyo., to 
render Mr. Hornaday all the aid in their power towards his laudable 
object; and the expedition left in June for the field of operations. 
Although a number of skeletons and skulls were found on the plains, 
it was with great difficulty that one buffalo bull was killed ; this proving 
to bo in a condition scarcely fit for mounting, the party reluctantly 
returned to Washington with the intention of starting again in the 
autumn when the chances would be somewhat better. 

A number of good skins of antelopes, mammals, and birds were ob- 
tained by the party. 

California. — A considerable amount of work has been done in Cali- 
fornia, especially by Lieut. P. H. Ray, U. S. Army, formerly in charge 
of the Point Barrow expedition. This officer, with a thorough knowl- 
edge of what is desired, made an extremely valuable collection, illus- 
trating the manners and customs of the Hoopa Indians, of whom he had 
charge, and his contribution is one of th'e most interesting yet made to 
the galleries of the National Museum. 

A somewhat similar collection, though not so extensive, was made by 
Mr. Loren W. Green, of the fish-hatching station at Baird, Cal. This 
includes especially a number of Indian bows and arrows, «&;c., with the 
apparatus used in constructing them, including a full set of implements 
for making stone arrow points. 

Mr. Townsend, whose explorations in Alaska have been referred to, 
also made extensive explorations on the coast of California, especially 
at Humboldt Bay, in the northern part of the State. lie obtained val- 
uable statistics in regard to the fisheries of that region, and made many 
important collections for the National Museum. lie then proceeded 
southward to the whaling stations along the southern coast of the State, 
with special reference to the California gray- whale fisheries. He found 
that so far from approaching extermination this species is re-establish- 
ing itself, and is becoming quite abundant in the lagoons of Lower Cal- 
ifornia. 

Arizona. — A large collection in ethnology was made by Dr. Palmer 
in this Territory in continuation of previous operations. 

Extensive collections in addition to former gatherings were made, 
partly in Arizona and i)artly in New Mexico, by Mr. E. W. Nelson. 
These including very fine i)Ottery of a somewhat novel type obtained 
from the graves, as also a number of interesting specimens of mammals, 
birds, &c. 

New Mexico. — Yery interesting contributions in zoology, &c., have 
been received from Dr. E. W. Shufeldt, since his detail as medical officer 
at Fort Wingate; his labors as a collector being supplemented by his 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 9 

thorough accoinplislimcnt as a naturalist and investigator. The result 
has been to furnish to the Institution much information of great inter- 
est in connection with the region in question. 

The researches of the Ethnological Bureau conducted in the region 
of Arizona and New Mexico, have been made principally by Col. James 
Stevenson and the Messrs. Mendeleff, full reference to which will be 
found in the accompanying report of the Director of the Bureau of 
Ethnology. The explorations of the mounds throughout the country 
have been carried on under the direction of Prof. Thomas. 

Mr. E. W. Nelson has also contributed many interesting specimens, 
both of zoology and of ethnology, gathered in New Mexico. 

From Mr. Thomas Keam, of Keam's CaOon, a very hearty co-worker 
of the Ethnological Bureau and of the U. S. Geological Survey, large 
collections have been received on deposit, which add materially to the 
value of the present ethnological display. 

No explorations of any special magnitude have been made in the older 
liarts of the United States, with the exception of what has been prose- 
.cuted in the line of geology and palaeontology by the U. S. Geological 
Survey. Many thousands, however, of specimens have been gathered 
by the Survey in Florida, Alabama, Texas, and elsewhere, which will 
be dwelt upon hereafter. 

Atlantic coast of the United States. — As in previous years, the U. S. 
Fish Commission has been the principal contributor from this part of 
the coast and the adjacent high seas, and the continued researches of 
tlie steamers Albatross and Fish JlawJc are noteworthy iu tlieir results. 

The completion of the schooner Oranqms, for the service of the U. S. 
Fish Commission, will doubtless add to the yield, especially as this 
vessel is well fitted for making collections of all kinds. It did not, 
however, get fairly into commission until about July 1. 

Mexico and Central America. — For a number of years past the Insti- 
tution has had a much valued correspondence with Prof. A. Dug^s, an 
eminent Mexican naturalist, resident at Guanajuato, and especially in- 
terested in determining accurately the animals and plants of his neigh- 
borhood. This gentleman has, for a long time, sent to the Institution 
all tbe specimens that he has been unable to identify, with permission 
to the Institution to retain the greater part of them, and this has re- 
sulted in adding to the cabinet many specimens of great rarity. 

From Governor A. K. Shepherd, of Batopilas, collections of minerals 
have been received j also from Mr. M. E. Wilkinson, specimens in alco- 
hol of mammals, reptiles, and fishes. 

Some ancient pottery has been supplied by Eev. David A. Watkins, 
of Guadalajara. 

George F. Gaumer, formerly United States consul to Yucatan, now 
engaged in special explorations in that and adjacent regions, has con- 



10 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

tributed quite a number of species of birds, many of tliem new to the 
Institution. 

Scattering- collections have come to band from various points in Cen- 
tral Americar and the West Indies, the most important of tlie latter 
being the collection of fishes made by the Natural Ilistory Museum of 
Kingston, Jamaica, and sent for the purpose of identification, which 
work was promptly done. 

Mr. L. Guesde, of Guadaloupe, has furnished some specimens of birds 
for identification, and has also contributed a number of stone imple- 
ments of Carib origin. 

Prof. F. Poey has continued his contributions of Cuban fishes in alco- 
hol ; thus adding to the very extensive donations already made by him, 
principally of types of his published species. 

A large ethnological collection made by Dr. Edward Palmer, in the 
vicinity of Guadalajara, is especially valuable as containing illustra- 
tions of the entire series of the processes of making the celebra'ied 
earthenware of that district. 

A series of contributions relating to the natural history, ethnology, 
and archaeology of Costa Pica, begun many years ago by Mr. Jos6 C. 
Zeledon, and continued year by year, has been sent us in 1886, and in 
eludes many rare and new species of birds. The Institution has seldom 
had a correspondent and collaborator of longer continuance in his re- 
lationships, nor any one furnishing objects of greater value; and it is to 
him — a pupil of the late Dr. von Frantzius — that we owe the greater 
part of our knowledge of the natural history of that most interesting of 
countries. 

During the winter the U. F. Fish Commission steamer Albatross was 
engaged in i^rosecutiug hydrographic researches at the request of the 
Xavy Department, and incidentally devoted such time as could be 
spared to the investigation of the natural history of the Baharaan 
region. Many islands were visited, and their land fauna investigated; 
while the marine objects were also secured by means of the dredge and 
trawl. As a result, there have been several new species of birds added 
to our knowledge, and many rare fishes collected. Of marine inverte- 
brates, «&c., large gatherings have been secured. 

Asia. — The Institution has been very fortunate in having, in Japan 
and Corea, gentlemen interested in the U. S. irrational Museum, and, 
oflicially, or otherwise, able to make explorations and collections in 
natural history and ethnology ; and to no one is it more indebted in this 
connection than to Mr. P. L. Jouy, formerly an employ6 of the Ifatioual 
Museum. This gentleman has been for some time in the civil service of 
the Corean Government, and has made-large gatherings, none of which 
have, as yet, come to hand. The collections actually received are nine 
boxes, obtained by Ensign J. B. Bernadou, U. S. Navy, mainly in 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. H 

Corca; iucludiiig large numbers of etlmologieal objects and specimens 
in alcohol almost entirely new to the Muscuin. 

A very important collection illustrating the life history of the Ja- 
panese has been received from the department of education of Japan, 
and is suitably displayed in one of the main halls of the Museum, where 
it tills a case of about GO feet in length, and attracts much interest. 

The Japanese series is rai)idly acquiring a distinguished pre-eminence, 
and every year becomes more and more complete. 

PUBLICATIONS. 

Of the different classes of works issued bj' the Institution, the first 
place is naturally assigned to the quarto " Contributions to Knowledge." 

Second in order are the octavo "Miscellaneous Collections," which, 
by reason of their various sources, form the most voluminous series 
The classes of productions going to swell the same may be specified as 
follows: 1st, the numerous collections of physical, statistical, chemical, 
biological, and ethnological researches i^rosecuted directly by the Insti- 
tution itself or under its immediate auspices ; 2d, the occasional " Toner 
Lectures," delivered under the encouragement of the fund established 
by Dr. Joseph Toner, but published by this Institution ; 3d, the special 
annual reports on the latest advances in the leading departments of 
science, maintained at the expense of the Institution, though first given 
to the i^ublic through the medium of the oflicial annual reports of the 
Regents. Theise are all issued sei)arately in pamphlet formj and proba- 
bly will ultimately be collected in volumes, each devoted to its partic- 
ular subject; 4th, the "proceedings" of various societies for the ad- 
vancement of science, stereotyped and published by the Institution ; 
includjug at present the Bulletins of the Philosophical Society of 
Washington, the Transactions of the Anthropological Society of Wash- 
ington, and the Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington j 
5th, the Bulletins, Proceedings, Circulars, and Instructions of the TJ. S. 
National Museum, published primarily under the direction of the hon- 
orable Secretary of the Interior, but re-issued by the Institution. 

The third series comprises the annual reports of the Regents of the 
Institution to Congress, in octavo volumes. 

The fourth series comprises the publications of the Bureau of Ethnol- 
ogy, under the auspices of the Smithsonian Institution. This is issued 
in larger or imperial octavo volumes. 

Smithsonian Gontrihutions to Knoivledge. — A work entitled " Re- 
searches upon the venoms of Poisonous Serpents," by S. Weir Mitchell, 
M. D., and Edward T. Reichert, M. D., has been printed during the past 
year, and will soon be ^ready for distribution. This is a continuation 
of the investigations on this important subject undertaken by Dr. Mitch- 
ell some twenty-five years ago, and published by the Institution, in 
the same series, at the beginning of the year 18G1. The present supple- 



12 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

mentary memoir by tlie joint authors embraces an examination into tlic 
physical and chemical characteristics of the venoms of various rattle- 
snakes {Crotalidcc), of the moccasin (Ancistrodon), and also of the 
hooded viper {Cobra), of India; the re-actions of various agents on the 
venom, the physiological effects of the venoms on serous surfaces, on 
the nervous system, on the circulation, on respiration, &c., and the 
general pathology of the subject. In an appendix of 21 pages is given 
a very full bibliography of the literature of the subject, brought down 
to date. The work forms a quarto volume of x + 186 pages, illustrated 
by 4 figures or wood cuts in the text, and 5 chromolithographic i^lates. 

Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections. — Of this series there are already 
on hand published articles sufificiont to form a number of volumes ; al- 
though such formal collection and issue of numbered volumes has been 
unavoidably postponed by other i^ressiug requirements, fully employ- 
ing the available funds of the Institution. The new publications in 
this series during the past year have been as follows : 

512. " List of Institutions in the United States receiving publications 
of the Smithsonian Institution." This list comprises the titles of 1,838 
domestic institutions, not including a considerable number of libraries 
and individuals receiving various special publications irregularly. The 
catalogue forms an octavo pamphlet of 72 pages. 

514. " A Catalogue of Scientific and Technical Periodicals (1GG5 to 
1882), together with Chronological Tables, and a Check-List." By 
Henry Carrington Bolton. As stated by the compiler, in his preface : 
" This catalogue is intended to contain the principal periodicals of every 
branch of pure and applied science, published in all countries, from the 
rise of this literature to the close of the year 1882." What are known 
as professional journals (those relating specially to theology, law, and 
medicine), as well as those relating to music and the fine arts, have 
been omitted. " While medicine has been excluded, anatomy, physi- 
ology, and veterinary science, being related to zoology, have been ad- 
mitted. With a few exceptions, serials published by learned societies 
have been omitted j those admitted either form part of a series begun 
or ending in an independent periodical, or are presumably not exclu. 
sively devoted to the proceedings of the societies by which they are 
edited. The admission of society publications to this catalogue would 
swell the volume to an inconrenient size; and has been rendered unnec. 
essary by the publication of the ' Catalogue of Scientific Serials,' by Mr. 
S. U. Scudder." This very complete list of the periodicals indicated, 
numbering over 5,000 titles, is -arranged alphabetically, and extends to 
615 Images. 

The catalogue is followed by 91 pages of " Chronological Tables," in 
smaller type, arranged in columns by years, giving a synchronal con- 
spectus of all those periodicals having any considerable number of vol- 
umes, and showing the precise number of the volume published in any 



EEPORT OF TUE SECRETARY. 13 

given year. This definite coireiation of date and volume is ofttimes a 
matter of some imi)ortance to those not Laving access to tlie volumes 
themselves. To this succeeds a concise index of subjects (under 94 
heads, alphabetically arranged), citing the classified i)eriodicals simply 
by their number in the general catalogue. 

The volume concludes with a " Library Check-List," of 54 pages, in 
which, following the number belonging to a periodical, is given the 
library or libraries where such i)eriodical may be found ; each of the 
127 principal libraries of the United States and Canada being desig- 
nated by a symbolic abbreviation. In many cases the number indicat- 
ing a given periodical is followed by but a single reference. This di- 
rectory to the locality, where possibly a rare journal may bo consulted, 
is a valuable feature of the catalogue, and efforts will be made to add 
to its fullness and accuracy in future editions. The whole work forms an 
octavo volume of x -f 773 pages, and is one highly creditable to the 
zeal and industry of its author ; who, though assisted by such facilities 
and means of communication as were within the reach of- the Institu- 
tion, devoted to its compilation his leisure for many years, without 
any remuneration, excepting his consciousness of i)erforming a useful 
labor. 

550. " The Scientific Writings of Joseph Uenry." This important 
work is now entirely stereotyped-, and will be put to press as soon as 
conveniently may be. The size of the collection (exceeding 1,000 pages) 
has required its division into two volumes. Volume I, comprising G8 
papers and abstracts, chronologically arranged, contains 535 pages, in- 
cluding introductory note and index, and is illustrated by 40 wood-cut 
figures. Volume IE, comprising 25 papers and abstracts, contains 550 
pages, including index, and is illustrated by 48 woodcut figures. 
In order not to separate Professor Henry's Meteorological Essays, 
published successively through a i^eriod of five years (1855-1859), and 
extending to 400 pages, it was judged expedient to so far interrupt the 
chronological order otherwise maintained, as to carry the entire series 
over to the second volume. And in like manner it became necessary, 
in order to secure a comparative equalization in the sizes of the two 
volumes, to transfer the conpected series of researches on sound in re- 
lation to fog-signaling (published during the four years 1874-1877) back 
from their natural place to the end of the first volume. Although this 
dislocation of the natural or historical order is in some respects to be 
regretted, it yet enables the reader to have a more connected view of 
the longer series of i^apers, without the inconvenience of alternate refer- 
ence to different volumes. 

It is designed to have i^rinted two editions of the work; one in royal 
octavo size, to correspond with the " Memorial Volume " issued by order 
of Congress; and the other in ordinary octavo size, to correspond with 
the " Miscellaneous Collections." 



14 EEPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

627. ^' Price-List of Publications of the Smithsonian Institution." 
This list includes only those publications on hand, down to July, 1885, 
which can be furnished to applicants, and gives the price at which each 
is held. Many of the earlier publications being out of print, these 
have been omitted from the list. It forms an octavo pamphlet of 27 
pages. 

028. " Index to the Literature of Uranium, 1789-1885." By H. Car- 
rington Bolton. This is one of a series of bibliographies especially 
directed to the indexing of chemical literjiture. The first part is a 
chronological list of memoirs or papers published on the subject, with 
references to sources of imblication ; the second i)art is an alphabetical 
list of authors of the samej and the third part is a subject-matter index, 
comprising the various treatments, reactions, characteristics, sources, 
&c., of uranium and its compounds. It forms an octavo pamphlet of 
3G pages. 

029. '^Eeport of Prof. Spencer F. Baird, Secretary of the Smithsonian 
Institution, for six months ending June 30, 1885." In consequence of 
the adoption by the Eegents, of the fiscal year instead of the previous 
calendar year, this report embraces the period of only half a year. It 
forms an octavo pamphlet of 46 pages. 

030. '' Transactions of the Anthropological Society of Washington, 
Vol. Ill (November 0, 1883-May 19, 1885)." An octavo volume of 
xxii + 204 Images. 

032. "An Account of the Progress in Geography in the year 1885." 
By J. King Goodrich. 8vo. 36 pp. 

033. "An Account of the Progress in Chemistry iu the year 1885." 
(With a bibliography). By H. Carrington Bolton. 8vo. 50 pp. 

031. "An Account of the Progress jn Vulcanology and Seismology iu 
the year 1885." (With a bibliography.) By Charles G. Rockwood, jr. 
8vo. 23 pp. 

035. " List of Foreign Correspondents of the Smithsonian Institution." 
To July, 1885. By George H. Boehmer. 8vo. 190 pp. 

636. "Bulletin of the Philosophical Society of Washington. Vol. VIII. 
Containing the Minutes of the Society and of the Mathematical Section, 
for the year 1885 (January 3, 1885-December 19, 1885)." Octavo vol- 
ume of xlvii + 68 pp. 

638. "An Account of the Progress in Physics in the year 1885." (With 
a bibliography.) By George F. Barker. 8vo. 60 pp. 

639. "An Account of the Progress in Mineralogy in the year 1885." 
(With a bibliography.) By Edward S. Dana. 8vo. 26 pp. 

640. "An Account of the Progress in Anthropology in the year 1885." 
(With a bibliography.) By Otis T. Mason. 8vo. 56 pp. 

641. "An Account of the Progress in Astronomy in the year 1885." 
(With a bibliography.) By William C. Winlock. 8vo. 114 pp. 

642. " Eecord of North American Invertebrate Palaeontology for the 
year 1885." By John Belknap Marcou. This forms a descriptive bib- 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 15 

liograpliy of tlie subject by alpliabetical arraiigemeut of the writers. 
8vo. 47 pp. 

G43. "An Account of tlie Progress in Zoology in the year 1885." By 
Theodore Gill. 8vo. 53 pp. 

G44. "Observations on Volcanic Eruptions and Earthquakes iu Ice- 
land, within Historic Times." Translated and condensed from a history 
by Th. Thoroddsen. By George IT. Boehmer. 8vo. 47 pp. 

Bulletins of the Kational Museum. — This series and that of the Pro- 
ceedings, illustrating the material of the U. S. National Museum, are 
issued in the first instance under the authority of the honorable Secre- 
tary of the Interior, as prepared by the Smithsonian Institution. 

" Bulletin U. S. National Museum, No. 23. The published writiugs of 
Isaac Lea." By Newton P. Scudder. This is the second of a proposed 
series of bibliographies of American naturalists who have contributed 
to the National Museum. The great value of such bibliographies is 
fully appreciated by all engaged in natural-history studies or investi- 
gations. Dr. Lea has for more than half a century contributed to vari- 
ous scientific journals the result of his extensive miueralogical and 
biological researches j commencing with an account of local minerals, 
published iu the Journal of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Phila- 
delphia, iu 1818, and giviug, iu 187G, a study of "Inclusions" iu gems. 
Perhaps his most important labor has been the series of investigations 
in the land and fresh-water mollusks, and especially iu the family of 
the TJnionidcB : the earliest of which was published in the Transactions 
of the American Philosophical Society, iu 1827. Dr. Lea has contrib- 
uted largely of his collections to the National Museum, and at the 
advanced age of ninety-four still enjoys good health and complete in- 
tellectual vigor. 

Of the i)reseut Bulletin the first 53 pages are occupied with a bio- 
graphic sketch of the subject. The bibliography projier extends to 171 
pages, giving in full the titles and sources of 279 memoirs and other 
publications iu chronological order. The compilation concludes with a 
list of the genera and species discussed and described by Dr. Lea, which 
occupies 100 pages. The work forms an octavo volume of lix ■{- 278 
pages (including the index), and is illustrated by an engraved portrait 
of Dr. Lea. 

"Bulletin U. S. National Museum, No. 28. A Manual of American 
Land Shells." By W. G. Binuey. This work presents an enlarged and 
revised edition of the "Land and Fresh- water Shells of North America:" 
Part I ; by W. G. Binney and T. Bland ; published by the Smithsonian 
Institution in 18G9, and included in the eighth volume of the Miscel- 
laneous Collections. Mr. Thomas Bland, Mr. Biuney's former coadjutor, 
is no longer with us, having died August 20, 1885. This treatise, as a 
separate volume, has been for some time out of print. The present 
work has been entirely re- written and re-arranged, occupying 200 more 



16 EEPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

pages than the earlier work. "Subsequently described species are 
added. Fuller attention is given in separate chapters to the subjects 
of geographical distribution, organs of generation, jaw and lingual den- 
tition, and classification. In the descriptive portion of the work the 
species are grouped geographically rather than systematically." The 
subject is treated under the following heads : 1st. Habits and Proper- 
ties (9 pp.) ; 2d. Geographical Distribution (24 pp.) ; 3d. The Generative 
apparatus (2 pp.) ; 4th. The Jaw and Lingual Membrane (G pp.) ; 5th. 
Classification (7 pp.); 6th. Systematic Index (3 pp.); and 7th, consti- 
tuting the bulk of the volume, Description of Species (412 pp.). Fol- 
lowing this is a tabular list (with specified localities and sources) of the 
Binney Collection of the Land Sliells of North America, presented by 
the author to the U. S. National Museum (25 pp.). The work forms an 
octavo volume of 528 pages, and is illustrated by 516 wood-cut figures 
in the text. 

" Bulletin U. S. National Museum, No. 29. Eesults of Ornithological 
Explorations in the Commander Islands and Kamtschatka." By Leon- 
hard Stejneger. The work is divided into three parts : 1st. Review of 
the species of birds collected or observed by the author on the Com- 
mander Islands, and at Petropaulski, Kamtschatka, 1882-1883 (300 pp.) ; 
2d. Synopsis of the birds reported to inhabit Kamtschatka (20 i)p.), and 
3d. Conclusions drawn by the author respecting the probable derivation 
of this avifauna, and the limitation of its forms. As the result of his 
explorations, he maintains " that the peninsula forms a very well circum- 
scribed oruitho-geographical province, remarkable not only for a num- 
ber of peculiarly modified forms, but also for a surprising absence of 
many of the most characteristic forms of the paLnearctic and circum- 
polar ornis." Regarding Kamtschatka as one of the most typical and 
well-defined peninsulas, the conditions of which " are such as to make 
it a true island, zoologically speaking," the author ventures the sugges- 
tion, " there seems to be reason to assume that it has been a real island 
at no very distant period." The work forms an octavo volume of 390 
pages, and is illustrated by 7 wood-cut figures in the text, a sketch map 
of Kamtschatka and adjacent countries, 1 relief-cut plate, and 7 chromo 
lithograjihic plates. 

"Bulletin U. S. National Museum, No. 30. Publications relatiug to 
Fossil Invertebrates." By John Belknap Marcou. This forms the 
third volume of the Bibliographies of American Naturalists, and is de- 
voted entirely to a catalogue of the writings of those who have labored 
in the field of invertebrate palaeontology, in connection with the re- 
searches and collections made by the Institution and the National Mu- 
seum. The list of memoirs embraces: 1st. The published writings of 
Fielding B. Meek, numbering 105 titles of papers (of which one was in 
conjunction with Prof. James Hall, 17 in conjunction with Mr. F. V. Hay- 
den, and 25 in conjunction with Mr. A. H. Wortheu), and occupying 100 
pages; 2d. The published writings of Charles A. White, numbering 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 17 

151 pai3ers (of wbicli 2 were in cotijimction with II. A. iSficliolsoii and 2 
in conjunction with O. H. St. John), and occupying GO pages ; 3d. The 
published writings of Charles D. Walcott, numbering 27 paj^ers and 
occupying 15 pages ; 4th. A collection from fifteen authors of " Publica- 
catious based upon the PahTeontological Collections of the United States 
Government," including the titles of 3 papers by Jacob W. Bailey, 12 
papers by T. A. Conrad, 5 papers by James D. Dana, 2 i)apers by 
Christian G. Ehrenberg, 7 papers by James Hall (1 in conjunction 
with F. B. Meek, above referred to), 2 j^apers by Angelo Heilprin, 3 
papers by Alpheus Hyatt, 10 papers by Jules Marcou, 2 papers by 
John S. Newberry, 1 paper by I. N. Nicollet, 4 papers by David Dale 
Owen, and 5 by Owen and Shumard, 2 papers by Hiram A. Prout, 
1 paper by James Schiel, 7 papers by Benjamin F. Shumard, and 5 
in conjunction with Owen (above referred to); and lastly, 5 papers 
by Eobert P. Whitfield ; these occupying 72 i)ages. An index of gen- 
era and species of invertebrate fossils occupies 52 pages. The work 
is supplied with a general index of subjects and autliors, and forms 
an octavo volume of 333 pages. 

Proceedings of the National Museum. — Of this series a prompt distri- 
bution is made, signature by signature, as fast as each IG pages of 
matter is printed, thus giving the publication somewhat the character 
of a periodical. 

Volume VIII of the Proceedings of the U. S. National Museum for 
1885 has been completed. It contains descriptive papers by Tarleton 
H. Bean, Charles W. Beckham, H. G. Beyer, E. A. Brock, W. H.Dall, 
Carl H. Eigenman, Walter Faxon, Walter J. Fewkes, J. M. Flint, S. 
Garman, G. Brown Goode, V. Havard, O. P. Hay, David S. Jordan, 
Frank H. Knowlton, George N. Lawrence, Frederic A. Lucas, John 
Belkna]) Marcou, Otis T. Mason, Seth E. Meek, George P. Merrill 
Charles E. Orcutt, Edward Potts, Eichard Eathbun, Eobert Eidgway, 
C. V. Eiley, John A. Eider, E. W. Shufeldt, Sidney L Smith, Silas 
Stearns, Leonhard Stejneger, Charles H. Townsend, Frederick W. True, 
Lucien M. Turner, A. B. Verrill, and Jos6 C. Zeledon. The volume 
contains 7G2 Svo pages, including introduction, index, aud explanatory 
pages, and is illustrated by 15 woodcut figures in the text and 25 
plates of relief cuts. 

The Smithsonian Annual Report. — Eeference was made in the last 
report (pages 337, 338) to an act of Congress approved March 3, 1885, 
directing that " the annual reports of the Smithsonian Institution shall 
be hereafter printed at the Government Printing Offlce, iu the same 
manner as the annual reports of the heads of Departments are now 
printed for submission in print to the two houses of Congress." The 
Smithsonian reports had previously been s ibmitted to Congress in man- 
uscript, requiring a special resolution each year to secure their printing, 
H. Mis, 170 2 



18 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

This act, however, did not provide for the printing of any extra copies 
for distribution by members of Congress or by the Institution. The 
usual resolution was therefore introduced in the Senate, and passed 
February 12, 188G. Action on this was not taken, however, by the 
House of Eepresentatives for five months ; when, on July 17, the Sen- 
ate resolution was agreed to, as follows : 

Ilesolvcd, ij-c, Tbiit tliere be priuted of the last annual reports of tbo Smithsonian 
Institution, and of the National Museum, in two octavo volumes, 10,000 extra copies 
of each, of which 3,000 copies shall be for the use of the Senate, 6,000 copies for the 
use of the House of Representatives, and 7,000 copies for the use of the Smithsonian 
Institution. 

In consequence of the growing imx)ortance of the Xatioual Museum, 
placed by law under the charge of the Smithsonian Institution, the 
annual report of the latter for 1881: is for the first time printed in two 
parts, or separate volumes, the first part confined to the work of the 
Institution itself, showing its operations, expenditures, and condition ; 
and the second part to the progress and condition of tlie National 
Museum. 

The first volume — the report of the Institution proper for 1881 — was 
not delivered until April, 1886 j and the second volume — the report of 
the National Museum for the same period, not till several months later. 
The first volume contains the Journal of Proceedings of the Board of 
Regents of the Institution at the annual meeting held January 21, 
1885; the report of the Executive Committee of the Board of Ee- 
gents, for the year 1884, showing in detail the receipts, appropriations, 
and expenditures of the Institution and of the Museum, and their 
present financial condition; the report of the Secretary of the Institu- 
tion for the year; together with subordinate reports on the operations of 
international exchanges, i&c. This strictly business portion is followed 
by the usual '' General Appendix,'Mn which is given a record of the 
j)rincipal scientific progress for the year, namely, in astronomy by Ed- 
ward S. II olden ; vulcanology and seismology, by Charles G. Ilockwood ; 
geography, by F. M. Green ; meteorology, by Cleveland Abbe ; physics, 
by George F. Barker; chemistry, by H. Carrington Bolton; mineral- 
ogy? ^y Edward S. Dana ; bibliography of North American invertebrate 
palaeontology, by J. B. Marcou; zoology, by Theodore Gill; and an. 
thropology, by Otis T. Mason. In conclusion are given miscellaneous 
papers relating to the archaeology of Northern and Central America, by 
Charles E. Vreeland, J. ¥. Bransford, Otis T. Mason, M. T. Leach, 
Charles M. Smith, and E. T. Wiltheiss. This part forms an octavo vol- 
ume of 943 pages, including introductory matter and index, and is illus- 
trated by 7 relief-cut plates and 243 relief-cut figures in the text. 

The second volume, " Eeport of the United States National Museum 
for the year 1884," contains. Part 1, the report of the assistant director; 
Part 2, reports of the curators and acting curators ; Part 3, papers rel- 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 10 

ative to particular collections or objects in the Museum, by Otis T. 
Mason, Joliu Murdoch, Frederick W. True, and F. A. Lucas ; Part 4, 
Bibliography of the Museum, including publications of the Museum, 
papers by ofiicers of the Museum, and other papers based on Museum 
material ; and lastly, as an appendix. Part 5, a list of accessions to the 
Museum during the year, occupying 44 pages. This report forms an 
octavo volume of ix + 45S pages, and is illustrated by 105 relief-cut 
l)lates. 

I regret to state that no copies of the Eeportof 1885 (though for 
some time stereotyped) have yet been received from the Public Printer. 

Publicatio7is of the Bureau of Ethnology. — During the past year has 
been issued the " Third Annual Report of the Bureau of Ethnology to 
the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution," by J. W. Powell, Director. 
In addition to the report of the Director, occupying 02 pages, are given 
as accompanying papers " Notes on certain Maya and Mexican Manu- 
scripts," by Cyrus Thomas ; " On Masks, Labrets, and certain aboriginal 
customs," by William H. Dall; " Omaha Sociology," by J. Owen Dorsey j 
" Navajo Weavers," by Dr. Washington Matthews ; " Prehistoric Tex- 
tile Fabrics of the United States, derived from impressions on Pottery,'' 
by W. H. Holmes; concluding with "Illustrated catalogue of a portion 
of the collections made during the field season of 1881," by W. n. 
Holmes ; and " Illustrated catalogue of the collections obtained from 
the Pueblos of New Mexico and Arizona in 1881," by James Stevenson. 

The work forms an imperial octavo volume of Ixxiv + GOG pages, 
illustrated by 200 wood-cut figures in the text, and 44 full-page plates, 
of which 2 are iirinted in colors. 

INTERNATIONAL EXCHANGES. 

The system of free exchanges of the scientific productions of learned 
societies and of individuals, including their distribution to public libra- 
ries and universities throughout the world, early established by this 
Institution as one of its most important interests and services, continues 
to increase annually-, with the extending recognition at home and abroad 
of its great utility in promoting " the increase and diffusion of knowl- 
edge among men." 

Statistics.— 'For the year ending June 30, 188G, the receipts for foreign 
transmission were 94,093 packages, weighing 195,404 pounds. The trans- 
missions filled 7G4 boxes, having an aggregate bulk of 5,208 cubic feet. 

For domestic exchanges the number of parcels received and distrib- 
uted during the fiscal year was 14,490, of which 2,533 parcels (or about 
one-sixth), were received for the library of the Institution. 

For Government exchanges in the same time were received 29 boxes 
containing 50,229 packages, and 114 boxes wer?. sent abroad* 



20 



EEPOET OP THE SECRETARY. 



As compared witli the receipts at quiuqucnnial periods for tlie past 
15 years the steady increase is Avell shown in the following table : 





1871. 
(Civil year.) 


1876. 
(Civil year.) 


1881. 
(Civil year.) 


1886. 
(Fiscal year.) 


Receipts. 


03 

to 
fcC 


CO 

s 


CO 
<0 
fcC 
n 

o 
a 


00 

(2 


o 

tc 


Pounds. 


CD 

tc 

a 

o 

ci 
p.. 


a 
o 


Foreign ex- 
changes . . . 

Domestic ex- 
changes... 

Government 
exchanges. 


7,730 
3,952 


28, 950 
14, 800 


13, 000 
4,853 


50, 750 
18, 130 
30, 000 


14, 161 

7,890 

15, 550 


50,155 
33,291 
34,200 


26, 162 
11,702 
56,229 


112,901 
39, 579 
42, 924 








Total... 


11,682 


43,750 


17, 853 98, 880 


37, 601 


117, 646 


94, 093 


195, 404 



In 1871 and 187G the exchanges of Government publications were 
not separately registered ; the aggregate weight for the year 1876 has 
been approximately estimated. ISTotwithstanding the extraordinary 
stimulus given to the foreign exchanges in 1870, by reason of the Cen- 
tennial Exhibition held that year, the years immediately succeeding 
showed no falling off in the total amount of material presented, but on 
the contrary a continual enlargement of the work. 

Assistance hy the Government. — In view of the great public and national 
services rendered by the exchange system, in the distribution of Gov- 
ernment publications, and in the large accessions of valuable works 
annually made through its instrumentality to the Congressional Library, 
an ai)propriation has for some years past been granted by Congress in 
aid of this enterprise. And without this support the operations of the 
exchange service would be very seriously restricted. The usual appro 
priation of $10,000 was granted to the Institution by the last Congress. 
The total expenses of conducting the international exchanges, for the 
last few years, are shown in the following table : 



Expenses of ex- 
changes. 


1883. 
(Civil year.) 


1884. 
(Civil year.) 


1885. 
(First 6 months.) 


1886. 
(Fiscal year.) 


By the Institution ... 
By appropriation 


$5, 192 34 
7,500 00 


$2, 510 71 
10,000 00 


$3,307 59 
5,000 00 


$2, 005 80 
10, 000 00 


Total cost 


13,692 34 


12,510 71 


8, .307 59 


12,005 80 



The column for 1885, comprising only the first six mouths of the year 
in the transition from the former civil year in use by the Institution 
to the present fiscal year, one-half only of the Congressional appropria- 
tion is credited to that year. 



RErOET OF THE SECRETARY. 21 

Transporiation facilities. — The liberal eucouragemeut of the Smith- 
sonian exchange operations afforded by the leading steamship com- 
panies in granting the Institution free freight for its packages and boxes, 
which has existed for many years, still continues; and it is my pleasant 
duty annually to renew the expressions of grateful acknowledgment for 
the generous policy which has so greatly favored and advanced the 
system of exchanges. The following is a list of the companies favoring 
the lastitution with the concessions mentioned, and to wliosc offices I 
desire, on behalf of the Eegents, to return their hearty thanks. 
Allan Steamship Company (A. Schumacher «& Co., agents), Baltimore. 
Anchor Steamship Line (Henderson & Brother, agents), New York. 
Athis Steamship Company (Pim, Forwood «& Co., agents), Xew York. 
Bailey, II. B., »& Co., Xew York. 
Bixby, Thomas E., & Co., Boston, Mass. 
Borland, B. E., New York. 
Boulton, Bliss & Dallett, New York. 
Cameron, E. W., «& Co., New York. 

Compagnie Gen6rale Transatlantique(L. deBebiau, agent), New York. 
Cunard Eoyal Mail Steamship Line (Vernon H. Brown & Co., agents), 

New York. 
Dennisou, Thomas, New York. 
Florio-Eubattino Line, New York. 
Hamburg American Packet Company (Kunhardt «& Co., agents), New 

York. 
Inman Steamship Company, New York. 
Merchants' Line of Steamers, New York. 
Monarch Line (Pattou, Vickers & Co., agents), New York. 
Muiloz y Esprieila, New York. 
Murray, Ferris & Co., New York. 
Netherlands American Steam Navigation Company (U. Cazaux, agent), 

New York. 
New York and Brazil Steamship Company, New York. 
New York and Mexico Steamshij) Company, New York. 
North German Lloyd (agents, Oelrichs & Co., New York ] A. Schu- 
macher & Co., Baltimore). 
Pacific Mail Steamship Comj)any, New York. 
Panama Eailroad Company, New York. 
Eed Star Line (Peter Wright & Sons, agents), Philadelphia and New 

York. 
White Cross Line of Antwerp (Punch, Edye & Co., agents), New York. 
Wilson & Asmus, New York. 

The thanks of the Institution are also due, and are hereby tendered, 
to the foreign ministers and consuls of the various Governments for 
their assistance in taking charge of the transmission of boxes to the 
countries which they respectively represent. 



22 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

Government Exchanges. — The Smithsonian Institution, as is well known, 
has been made by law the agent of the United States Government for 
conducting the international exchanges of public official documents be- 
tween it and foreign Governments. By joint resolution of Congress 
(approved March 2, 1867), it was ordered that " fifty copies of all docu- 
ments hereafter j)riQted by order of either house of Congress, and fifty 
copies additional of all documents printed in excess of the usual num- 
ber, together with fifty copies of each publication issued by any Depart- 
ment or Bureau of the Government, be placed at the disposal of the 
Joint Committee on the Library, who shall exchange the same, through 
the agency of the Smithsonian Institution, for such v^orks published iu 
foreign countries, and especiall}^ by foreign Governments, as may be 
deemed by said committee an equivalent ; said works to be deposited in 
the Library of Congress." And by supplemental joint resolution to 
carry the same into better efiect (approved July 25, 1868), the Con- 
gressional Printer, whenever he shall be so directed by the Joint Com- 
mittee on the Library, is required to print fifty copies in addition to the 
regular number of all documents hereafter printed by order of either 
house of Congress, or by order of any Department or Bureau of the 
Government, and whenever he shall be so directed by the Joint Com- 
mittee on the Library, one hundred copies additional of all documents 
ordered to be printed in excess of the usual number ; said fifty or one 
hundred copies to be delivered to the Librarian of Congress, to be ex- 
changed under the direction of the Joint Committee on the Library, as 
provided by joint resolution approved March 2, 1867. 

Since the international movement, commencing with the Paris con- 
vention of 1875, for f>romotiug the free reciprocal exchange of public 
documents, there has been a growing interest in the subject manifested 
abroad. International conferences, for agreeing upon details, were held 
at Brussels, Belgium, iu 1880, in 1883, and finally in 1886— March 15. 
There are now thirty-seven Governments in exchange with the United 
States, or, counting the duplicate sets sent to the Dominion of Canada 
(deposited at Ottawa and Toronto), there may be said to be thirty-eight 
foreign recipients. These are : The Argentine Confederation, Bavaria, 
Belgium, Brazil, Buenos Aires, Canada, two sets (one for the parlia- 
mentary library at Ottawa, the other for the legislative library at 
Toronto), Chili, Colombia (United States of), Denmark, France, Ger- 
many, Great Britain, Greece, Hayti, Hungary, India, Italy, Japan, 
Mexico, Netherlands, New South Wales, New Zealand, Norway, Portu- 
gal, Prussia, Queensland, Eussia, Saxonj-, South Australia, Spain, 
Sweden, Switzerland, Tasmania, Turkey, Venezuela, Victoria, and Wiir- 
temberg. 

During the past year boxes 21, 25, and 26 of the series of United 
States official publications have been sent to each of the above Gov- 
ernments. 



EEPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 16 

The Library of Congress. — By the joint resolutious of 18G7 and 18G8, 
above referred to, the " works published in foreign countries, and es- 
pecially by foreign Governments," that may be obtained by our inter- 
national exchanges, are directed '-to be deposited in the Library of 
Congress." This great national institution thus becomes the beneficiary 
of this branch of the service, and it is a matter of public interest that 
such returns should be placed on their broadest basis. 

From the last annual report of the Librarian, Mr. A. 11. Spolfbrd (for 
the calendar year 1885), the following remarks are quoted as here 
eminently appropriate : 

"Under the authority of these acts [above cited j the publications of 
the United States have been sent regularly each year to thirty-eight 
foreign Governments, whose officers responded favorably to overtures 
for regular exchanges. Very inadequate returns^ however, have been 
received from some countries, while from others very rich and impor- 
tant stores of documents, including legal, political, historical, and scien- 
tific publications, have come to hand. Eepeated eftbrts have been made 
by correspondence conducted with foreign Governments, through the 
Smithsonian Institution and the Department of State, to secure more 
adequate returns from- the Governments to which the publications of 
the United States (an extensive and costly series) have been so liberally 
supi^lied through a long series of years. Very slight results, Jiotcever, 
have attended these endeavors. A few desultory returns were occasion- 
ally received, followed by an entire stoppage of the transmission of 
documents. The results of the exchanges thus far has been to supply 
the Library with many publications of permanent value and with many 
more fragmentary sets of laws, journals, reports, and miscellaneous 
publications, the principal value of which to the collection depends 
ujion the completeness of tlie series. The deficiencies in all these series 
are very extensive, thus depriving Congress of that full access to the 
current legislation and condition of foreign countries which is so im- 
portant to those seeking ofdcial information thereon. 

It has long been apparent that no permanent improvement in the 
very defective operations of these international exchanges can be ex- 
pected until some sj)ecial agency is organized in Europe to give personal 
attention to the practical business of securing full returns of all Govern- 
ment publications. The distribution of documents is scattered in most 
Governments among different bureaus, with no common head. More- 
over, jnost Government publications are issued by arrangement with 
private publishing houses, instead of by Government presses, thus 
rendering the books to a partial extent publications to which a commer- 
cial value is attached, and comi)licating the question of exchange with 
that of a pecuniary valuation of publications given and received. In 
very few countries is there any general law regulating this matter, 
while the various international conferences held at Paris and at Brussels 
with a view to the adoption of a uniform system of exchanges have 
ftiiled to enlist the co-operation of several of the most important Euro- 
pean Governments. Moreover, there are issued many si^ecial publica- 
tions wliich ca,n be obtained only by special efforts. An agent of the 
United States, either constantly upon the ground, or visiting periodically 
at regular intervals the bureaus of the Government in the various coun- 
tries, supplied with full lists both of our wants and of the publications, 
regular and special, of the Government presses, would furnish a per- 



24 REPOET OF THE SECRETARY. 

maneut and, it may be added, the only efficieut guarantee of realizing 
from the system of international exchanges what we have a right to 
expect. 

An initiatory step was taken during the last Congress, when an agent 
in the employ of the Smithsonian Institution, in charge of its exchange 
system, was sent to Europe, one-half of his expenses being paid by the 
Institution and one-half out of the Library funds. The results of the 
experiment, although a first attempt in a new field, were most gratify- 
ing. In the few months devoted to the labor, there were secured by 
diligent effort, backed by the requisite ofiicial authority from the Secre- 
tary of the Smithsonian Institution, the Department of State, and the 
Librarian of Congress, very extensive returns of public documents and 
miscellaneous publications. These returns comprised forty-four cases 
and one hundred and sixty packages of books, numbering about 7,000 
volumes, received in 1884-'85, and were collected from the Governments 
of Great Britain, France, Germany, Italy, Belgium, the Netherlands, 
Sweden, ISforway, Denmark, Hungary, Saxony, Wiirtemberg, Bavaria, 
and Switzerland, fourteen Governments in all. Vienna was also visited, 
but affairs were not in a state favorable to the success of negotiations, 
and no result was reached as to the publications of the Austrian Gov- 
ernment. Several other Governments from which returns were thus 
secured, have also failed to continue sending the series of their parlia- 
mentary and other documents, the value of which is largely dependent 
upon their continuity. 

The exx^erience of years has amply proved the impossibility of secur- 
ing any complete or adequate return from foreign Governments for the 
full and costly series of American Government publications so long fur- 
nished them, without direct and persistent effort, through an agency 
upon the ground, furnished with adequate credentials, to attend per- 
sonally to the whole business. One of the chief benefits of the initial 
effort already made has been the discovery of the practical obstacles in 
the way of a thoroughly successful system of exchanges. These, it is 
believed, could be removed by following up the work with each Govern- 
ment, while, if neglected, or left to the very uncertain medium of cor- 
respondence, the United States will continue to reap very inadequate 
returns for our publications sent abroad. It is recommended that the 
Joint Committee on the Library consider the expediency of providing 
an appropriation to defray the necessary expenses of an agent of inter- 
national exchanges, to be sent abroad for a. term of at least six months 
during the present year. 

It is also recommended that the act directiug the printing of fifty 
copies of each publication ordered by any Deiiartment or Bureau, to be 
devoted to international exchanges, be so amended as to render its pro- 
visions more effective." 

LIBEARy. 

The fact should constantly be borne in mind that the distribution of 
the publications of the Institution secures in return a large amount of 
valuable material which is deposited in the Library of Congress. What- 
ever cost, therefore, there may be to our Government for Smithsonian or 
Museum reports, &c., is many times repaid by the exchanges received, 
in addition to which the returns for the many volumes of publications 
printed entirely at the expense of the Smithsonian fund find the same 
depository. 



REPOET OF THE SECRETARY. 



25 



The following table will show the cxtetit of the additions to tlie Li- 
brary of Congress from this source for the last ten years : 

Deposit ofhools, <jx., in the Library of Congress hy the Smithsonian Institution from 1875 

to 1886. 





Vol- 
umes. 


Parts. 


Pam- 
pblcta. 


Maps. 


Total. 


1846-1874 


26, 629 
1,120 
1,017 
1,889 
1,203 
1,949 
1,143 
1,867 
1,296 
1,754 
1,567 
1,942 


50, 225 
4,016 
4, 315 

4,327 
4,976 
5, 852 
5,180 
7,505 
8, 039 
8, 134 
8,826 
8,824 


20, 403 
1,797 
1,878 
2, 184 
2,416 
2,219 
2,095 
2, 399 
2, 302 
2, 568 
2, 323 
6,471 


5,555 
114 
375 
326 
74 
183 
152 
1«S 
152 
219 
143 
474 


102, 812 


1875 


7,047 


1876 


7, 585 


1877 


8,726 


1878 


8,729 


1879 


10, 203 


1880 


8, 570 


1881 


11,959 


1882 


11,789 


1883 


12,675 


1884 


12, 859 


1885 


17,711 






Total 


43, 436 


120,219 


49, 055 


7,955 


220, 665 





Subsequently to this period the enumeration will be made by fiscal 
years (July to July), instead of by calendar years ; the last six months 
of the year 18S5 being included in the following statement for the jiast 
year. 

Statement of the books, maps, and charts received by the Smithson- 
ian Institution during the year ended June 30, 1886, and transferred to 
the Library of Congress or to that of the National Museum: 

Volumes : 

Octavo or smaller ] , 428 

Quarto or larger 510 

1,938 

Parts of volumes : 

Octavo or smaller 4, 293 

Quarto or larger 6, 728 

11,021 

Pamphlets: 

Octavo or smaller 2, 315 

Quarto or larger 013 

Maps and charts 379 

Total IG, 26(5 



26 EEPORT OF THE SECRETAEY. 



UNITED STATES NATIONAL MUSEUM. 

Five years have elapsed since (the latter part of 1881) tbe work of 
moving into the new Mnseum building was begun. Two years ago I 
reported that tbe packing boxes, several thousand in number, contain- 
ing the accumulations of many i^revious years, had for the most part 
been unpacked, and that the entire floor space of the building would 
be soon occupied by exhibition collections. During the current year 
this hoped-for result has been finally attained, and (with the exception 
of one corner of one of the central halls still occupied by one or two 
collections received at the close of the New Orleans exhibition, and 
which have not been opened on account of delay in preparation of cases 
for their reception) the entire floor space of about 100,000 square feet is 
open to the public, and the collections arranged in accordance with the 
provisional plan of installation. The work of mounting and labelling 
is still in progress, and each month shows marked advances. From this 
time forward, however, it will be imi)ossible to develop the collections 
satisfactorily without additional space. The laboratories and workshops 
are entirely inadequate for the storage of the unexhibited collections 
and the accommodation of the preparators and mechanics, and the ex- 
hibition halls do not afford suitable opportunity for the disiday of the 
materials already in order for i^ublic examination. Each collection, 
and above all each department, should have a hall of its own, more or 
less comi)letely isolated from those which adjoin it. When several col- 
lections are placed side by side in the same department much is lost 
in respect to effect and convenience of study, not to mention the still 
greater disadvantage of overcrowded space. 

As soon as Congress shall see fit to i)rovide another Museum building, 
the collections being now so completely under control, and the force of 
curators, assistants, and preparators so well organized and so thoroughly 
prepared for the task, within eighteen mouths, or at the most two years, 
a space twice as large as that now occupied can be filled with cases of 
specimens thoroughly mounted for exhibition. 

The development of the Museum during the past year has been 
unexpect:edly great, as may be judged from the fact that about fifteen 
hundred separate lots of specimens have been received. • A certain pro- 
portion of these were obtained from Government expeditions and surveys 
and material of perhaps equal value through exchange, but by far the 
largest part of the increase, both in quantity and value, has been in 
the form of gifts. 

It is perhaps too early in the history of the Museum to take into 
consideration the question of the extent and nature of its future devel- 
opment. Such institutions are most successful and useful when the 
result of natural processes of growth. 

We may profit to a certain extent by the experience of other nations, 
but the National Museum of the United States will of necessity have 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 27 

features iieculiar to itself, developed in response to tlie peculiar ueeds 
of the people of this continent. It should be remembered that the na- 
tional collections of every principal European nation are divided into 
several grouiis, each under separate administration, though often under 
the general control of some central authority. In France, for instance, ■ 
most of the museums are under the Ministry of Public Instruction, and 
in England, to a less extent, under the Department of Science and Art. 

In London, in Paris, in Berlin, and in Vienna the i)ublic collections 
are scattered through various parts of the city, in museums with dis- 
tinctive names and more or less independent organizations, and by no 
means always harmonious with each other. Much of the work which 
should properly be done by these museums is omitted, because none of 
them have seen tit to undertake it, and, on the other hand, much work 
is duplicated, which is perhaps equally unfortunate, collections of simi- 
lar scope and purjiose being maintained in different parts of the same 
city. One of the chief objections to such division of effort is that much 
of the value of large collections in any department is lost by failure to 
concentrate them where they may be studied and compared side by 
side. In Washington the national collections are all, without ex- 
ception, concentrated in one set of buildings. The Army Medical Mu- 
seum will soon occupy a building side by side with those under the 
control of the Smithsonian Institution, and this proximity and the long 
established policy of co-operation between the two institutions will ren- 
der them, for all practical purposes, united. 

It is iiossible that, in the future, museums of specialties, occupying 
buildings of their own, may grow up under the control of other Execu- 
tive Departments of the Government, but it is not likely that they will 
be very remote from the chain of museum buildings already in j)rocess of 
formation, and a harmonious system of cooperation will doubtless al- 
ways be practicable. In the mean time the Smithsonian Institution, as 
the legal custodian of Government collections, should undoubtedly pre- 
serve everything which may be serviceable for the development in 
Washington of one of the greatest museums in the world. It will be 
neither practicable nor desirable to gather together in Washington col- 
lections of ancient and mediaeval art, such as those which adorn the 
capitals of Europe; but a representative series of such objects will un- 
doubtedly grow up which shall be sufficiently large and well selected to 
enable Americans to understand these subjects in a general way, to edu- 
cate the jiublic taste, and to promote, so far as possible, the study of 
the elements of art and the history of civilization, as well as to forward 
the growth of the arts of design. This having been accomplished, a 
large part of the attention of the Museum would naturally be directed 
toward the exhibition of the geology and natural history of America, 
and at the same time its natural resources, to the preservation of me- 
morials of its aboriginal inhabitants, and the exposition of tbe arts and 
industries of America. 



28 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

In referring to the industries of America it is not intended to recom- 
mend that anything simiL^r to what is general!}' understood as an '"'in- 
dustrial exhibition" should be attempted. The element of competitive 
display should not be admitted, and no two objects of jyreciscly similar 
import should ever be placed side by side, least of all, if of modern 
manufacture. Such has hitherto been the policy of the Museum, and 
should it ever be interfered with, it is to be feared that much of the use- 
fulness of the Museum would be destroyed, both from a scientific and 
educational standpoint. 

The principal European museums have been carefully studied by 
officers of the Museum, and we have already profited largely by the 
knowledge thus gained of their successes and their failures. A report 
upon the great museums of the world is in preparation and will proba- 
bly be published next j^ear. 

It must be remembered that the " National Museum" is actually of re- 
cent origin, although the idea has been under consideration for many 
years. As recently as 1877 the appropriation made by Congress for its 
support was only $10,000. The " jSTational Museum " was not recognized 
by that name in the Congressional appropriation bills until 1876, al- 
though the term was used in the reports of the Secretary of the Smith- 
sonian Institution as early as 18G8,* and although the national collec- 
tions were transferred to the custody of the Institution in 1858, in ac- 
cordance with the act of incorporation passed in ISIG, by which it is 
provided that " all objects of art and of foreign and curious research, 
and all objects of naturul history, plants, and geological and miueral- 
ogical specimens belonging or hereafter to belong to the United States, 
which may be in the city of Washington," shall be delivered to the Ke. 
gents of the Smithsonian Institution, and, together with the new speci- 
mens obtained by exchange, donation, or otherwise, shall be so ar- 
ranged and classified as best to facilitate their examination and study .t 

Nearly half a century has passed since the United States, by the pro- 
visions of the will of James Smithson, first became proprietor of a scien- 
tific collection, in the shape of the Smithson minerals and meteorites; 
it is forty-five years since the National Institute was founded, with great 
prestige and influence, for the avowed purj)ose of organizing a National 
Museum of Natural History j forty since Congress threw upon the 
Kegents of the Smithsonian Institution the responsibility of caring for 
the so-called " National Cabinet of Curiosities ; " twenty-nine since this 
responsibility was finally accepted and these collections were transferred 
to the Smithsonian building ; thirty-seven since the Institutioii began 
to make collections of its own ; ten since Congress formally adopted 

* See Report Smithsonian Institution, 1867, p. 55. 

t An act to establish the "Smithsonian Institution" for the increase and diffusion of 
useful knowledge among men. (Approved August 10, 1846 ; Revised Statutes, title 
Ixxiii, sections 5579-5594.) See also Revised Statutes, section 5586, and Statutes 
Forty-fifth Congress, third session, chap. 182, p. 894. 



KEPOET OF THE SECRETAEY. 29 

the ITatioiial Museum as its waixl, and five siuce tlio Museum has had 
a shelter exclusively its own and an appropriation in any way adequate 
to the necessities of its administrative work. With the year 1880 be- 
gan an epoch in the history of the Museum, siuce at this time Congress 
saw fit to recognize the claims of the Museum by increasing the appro- 
priations for its preservation and installation from $45,000 to $145,000. 

Their responsibility in the matter they had, however, recognized in 
1879 by appropriating $250,000 for the construction of a fire-proof build- 
ing. The claims of the Museum to increased support had been before 
them for three or four years, ever since, indeed, bj their own act, in 
connection with the preparations for the participation of the Govern- 
ment Departments in the International Exposition in Philadelphia, and 
t-he valuable gifts of foreign Governments upon that occasion, the 
Smithsonian building had been filled to overflowing with unassorted 
material of the highest value for educational and scientific uses. 

Thirteen years ago, as Assistant Secretary, I pointed out in my report 
to the Secretary of the Institution that the annual growth of the Mu- 
seum was undoubtedly greater than that of any other in the world ; 
that is, so far as the accession of great masses of material was con- 
cerned. The increase at present is much greater than formerly, but 
the accessions are much more manageable, owing to the larger number 
of assistants employed. For twenty years the Assistant Secretary of 
the Smithsonian Institution, with the help of one or two laborers and 
such students as happened to volunteer their aid, performed all the 
duties of curatorship of the national collections. It was not until 1874 
that a special staff of Museum assistants was recognized, with duties 
apart from the executive work of the Institution, and not until 1875 that 
the office of curator was established, that office being held by the as- 
sistant secretary from 1875 to 1878. Up to 1880 there was still but one 
curator, with a number of " assistants," but during that year an execu- 
tive officer, with the grade of assistant director, was appointed, and the 
five principal assistants in the Museam were designated curators. The 
present organization of the personnel, then, dates back only five years, 
to the time when preparations were being made for taking possession 
of the new building. 

The staff", as now organized, consists of two classes, the scientific offi- 
cers or curators, and the administrative officers ; the former reporting 
to the Director of the Museum, the latter to the assistant director, who 
also has general supervision of the administrative work of the curators. 

There are at present 28 curatorships, some of which are divided, so 
that the number of heads of departments or sub-departments is 2G, 
and the total number of men in the scientific staff 30, of whom 13 are in 
the pay of the Museum, and the others are honorary, some being detailed 
for this duty by the Director of the Geological Survey, by the Director 
of the Bureau of Ethnology, others by the Commissioner of Fish and 
Fisheries, and by the Secretary of the Navy, two being volunteers. It 



30 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

may be stated t'liat these details are in every instauce made in tlie 
interests of cooperation by those Bureaus of the Government engaged 
in work closely connected with that of the Museum. The paleon- 
tologists of the Geological Survey find it so much to their advantage to 
have access to the paleontological collections of the Museum and the 
use of the laboratories, storage cases, and general administrative appli- 
ances of the Museum, that they are permitted by their chief to assume 
the responsibilities of curatorships and perform a general work of super- 
vision. In nearly every case, however, the Museum supplies the honor- 
ary curators with assistants, who relieve them of much of the routine 
work. 

Very few important changes or additions have been made during the 
fiscal year covered by this report. 

In the departments of mollusks and of entomology, an assistant cu- 
rator has been appointed, the honorary curators of these departments 
having found it impossible to attend to the routine work as well as 
identify, classify, and arrange the specimens for exhibition and study 
I)urposes. 

A brief review of what has been accomplished in each department 
during the year will be, perhaps, the most satisfactory mode of bring- 
ing before the Eegents the present methods and tendencies of the work 
in the Museum. I shall not however attempt to discuss the additions 
of the year, except so far as these are incidentally referred to as the re- 
sults of explorations made under the direction, or with the co-operation 
of the Institution. A list of these, with geographical and topograph- 
ical indices, and a list of donors, will be found in the second part of this 
report, in connection with the detailed reports of the Assistant Director 
and curators of the Museum upon its current work. 

A census of the collections made in 1884 showed an estimated total of 
1,471,000 "lots"of specimensinthe Museum. The number at the present 
time is 2,420,934. The total number of "lots" of specimens received 
during the year and separately entered on the record of accessions is 
1,496, including 6,890 separate packages. The construction of cases has 
been constantly in progress, and during the year there have been re- 
ceived and fitted for use and placed in the exhibition halls 84 cases, 
chiefly of the standard patterns. Forty-five storage cases have been 
made for use in the laboratories, 5,400 wooden drawers and trays, and 
54,000 pasteboard trays. There have also been purchased 3,504 glass 
jars, for storage and exhibition of alcoholic Sjiecimens, and 24 barrels 
(1,115 gallons) of 98 per cent, alcohol. 

The chief clerk of the Museum recently appointed has given much of 
his time during the past year to reorganizing and supervising the depart- 
ment of property and supplies ; methodizing and formulating rules and 
regulations for governing the same. The changes that have been made 
have already proven of great practical benefit, simplifying, as they do, 



EEPORT OF THE SECRETAEY. 31 

t 

met !h)(]s of procedure in purcliase of sui)plies and payment of bills, and 

of locatinj,^ responsibility for kind and quality of articles furnished and 

for tlieir proper use and care. 

The distribution of duplicates has been much the same as in previous 
years. About twenty-four thousand specimens have been sent out to 118 
institutions and societies ; those to institutions in the United States are 
generally gifts, though many were sent in the way of exchange. For all 
foreign sendings, equivalents in the way of exchange have been received 
or i)romised. 

The total number of visitors to the Museum building has been 174,225, 
to the Smithsonian building SSjOGOj the total number considerably 
exceeding 200,000. Over 1,000,000 persons are estimated to have vis- 
ited the Museum since the completion of the new building. 

The publications of the Museum have been carried on with greater 
activity than usual during the year. Bulletins numbered 23, 28, 29, and 
30 having been published. 

In addition to these Bulletins the manuscript of No. 31 was put in 
type during the year. Volume VII of the Proceedings of the Museum 
for 1884 was published in its complete form, and the printing of Vol- 
ume VIII for 1885 was completed, and an edition of 200 copies distrib- 
uted in signatures. This form of i^ublication has been adopted to secure 
the rapid promulgation of the work of the Museum, and the signatures 
are placed at once in the hands of the priucipal scientific institutions 
and of specialists who are directly interested in the work in progress 
in the JMuseum. The remainder of the edition of 1,000 copies is pub- 
lished in bound volumes, and iu time a[)pears for general distribution 
in the miscellaneous collections of the Smithsonian Institution. 

An order for the publication of Volume IX of the Proceedings (for 
1886) was not obtained from the Secretary of the Interior until after 
the close of the fiscal year, and for six months the Museum was without 
any means of publishing the results of" its current work. Several 
papers which i)roperly should have been published in this serial were 
sent elsewhere to be printed. The Proceedings of the Biological Society 
(published with the co-operation of the Smithsonian Institution) was 
employed to relieve this temporary lack of publishing facilities. Im- 
portant papers by Mr. Eidgway upon the Birds of the Island of Cozu- 
mel, and other papers by Messrs. Bean, Dresel, Ball, Eiley, and Rath- 
bun were made public through this medium. 

The total number of pages published by the Museum during the year 
was 1,642, and that of papers 48; the total number of labels printed 
was about 6,000. It has not been found necessary to introduce any 
changes iu the general style of tyi^e or form of the labels. The number 
of labels now on file is about 25,000, and requires the constant atten- 
tion of one person to care for and store them in i)roper condition for 
ready reference. They are arranged in standard unit drawers, about 
100 in number, and are delivered to the curators of the several depart- 



^2 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY, 

ments as may be required. There is still much work to be doue in 
labelling specimens, and it has been found necessary, on account of the 
time required in i^rinting, to prepare written labels for temporary dis- 
play with many of the exhibits. 

The work of the Museum library has been developing on the old lines 
of administration, and in addition to the central reference library, which 
now includes volumes and pamphlets, sectional libraries have been es- 
tablished in the scientific departments, each under the control of the 
curator, and including the works especially needed by him in his daily 
work. All the sectional libraries are, of course, under the supervision 
of the librarian. 

One of the principal imiirovcments of the year has been the placing 
of temporarj^ covers on the collection of pamphlets (of which there are 
over 2,000) constituting that part of the library which is most frequently 
consulted. 

The operations of the staff of preparators are discussed at length in 
their proper place. The amount of work accomplished has been equal 
to that of previous years, and it is a source of satisfaction to know that 
the standard of excellence is improving, not only in respect to individ- 
ual excellence but in the manner of labeling and displaying the collec- 
tions in the exhibition cases. We are constantly called upon for jilans 
of the cases and fittings in use in the Museum, and also to allow officers 
of other museums opportunities to study our methods of administration. 
At no time during the year have there been less than six or eight 
students thus engaged. In response to such ajiplications, as well as to 
the letters which are almost daily received, making inquisies into our 
methods of work, it is our policy to make a cordial response. It is con- 
sidered germane to the objects of a national museum to render the re- 
sults of its labors useful to similar institutions throughout the country, 
and to encourage in this way, as well as by the distribution of specimens, 
the growth of the museum idea in the United States. 

For the purpose of encouraging the new school of taxidermists and 
giving encouragement to the movement for the improvement of mounted 
animals in the Museum, a space has been allotted in one of the exhibi- 
tion halls to the Society of American Taxidermists, and already a very 
creditable collection has been placed on view, the object of whicb is to 
explain the improved methods of modern taxidermy, and to show ex- 
amples of what is considered the highest artistic and mechanical per- 
fection in the art. A number of prize pieces from the annual exhibi- 
tions of the Society of Taxidermists have been given or lent by their 
authors. This collection is under the charge of Mr. Hornaday, chief 
taxidermist of the Museum. 

The collections sent to the Kew Orleans Exposition, were all returned 
to the Museum shortly after the beginning of the year, and have long 
since been restored to their proper places in the exhibition or reserve 
series. A considerable number of duplicates thus returned have been 



EEPOIiT OF THE SECRETARY. 33 

placed iu stonige subject to future calls of siuiilar nature. The assist- 
ant director, who rcpreseuted the Smithsouian Institution in the Gov- 
ernment Board in charge of exhibitfon work, has coiu^ilcted andhandc^d 
in to the chairman of the Board his portion of the ofhcial report, and 
(so far as wo have been informed) the work of the Board has been com- 
pleted. A number of exhibits obtained by the State Department for 
the second New Orleans Exhibition have, since its close in xlpril, been 
turned over to the Museum by Mr. C. S. Hill, the representative of that 
Department. 

I. The Department of Arts and Industries. — In this department, which 
is under the curatorship of the Assistant Director of the Museum, Mr. 
G. Brown Goode, are assembled together for convenience a number of 
special collections mainly of recent origin which may very possibly in 
future be grouped in quite different relations. The scope is necessarily 
general and indefinite, and I shall siujply call attention to the present con- 
dition of some of the most important groups of objects which it contains. 

The section of textiles already includes a very full series, of the ani- 
mal and vegetable fibers used throughout the world, together with good 
representations of devices for spinning and weaving, and of tlie various 
products of tbe textile industries. This, collection is nearly all perma- 
nently installed, provided with printed labels, and illustrated by dia- 
grams. For lack of room, fully half of the material ready for exhi- 
bition has been stored away, and the cases prepared for its display are 
in boxes in the Armory building. The space assigned to the exhibition 
series is still so crowded that the objects cannot be satisfactorily exam- 
ined. Work upon this and other allied technological sections under the 
charge of Mr. Romyn Hitchcock, being so greatly impeded for lack of 
accommodation, he applied for and obtained a furlough of two years, 
and, having accepted a professorship in the University of Osaka, in 
Japan, is making a special study of Oriental technology. 

To the collection of food substances, also under the charge of Mr. 
Hitchcock, is assigned a large quantity of unassorted material. The few 
cases now on exhibition contain the foods of the North American In- 
dians, of Japan and China, and some of the more curious and unusual 
articles of diet. There are also two cases of educational injportance 
which exhibit graiJhically the composition of the human body and its 
daily expenditure of tissues and the manner in which this is compen- 
sated for by daily rations of food. This collection is modeled after the 
famous collection of similar character prepared by Dr. Lankester and 
others for the Betlinal Green Museum in London. It is however based 
upon an entirely new series of analyses, and upon a revised plan prepared 
by Prof. W. O. Atwater, of Wesleyan University, and corresponds to the 
latest views in physiological chemistry. 

The collections in chemical technology already have a good nucleus, 
and the chemical.manufactures and their products and methods should 
ultimately occupy a prominent position in the plan of the Museum. The 
]J. Mis. 170 3 



34 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

material uow on band is only incidentally displayed, and a considerable 
l^ortion of it is temporarily appropriated witli the materia medica col 
lection. 

The collections of materia medica are still under the charge of Dr. H. 
G-. Beyer, U. S. Navy, detailed by the Surgeon-Generalof the Navy for 
this special duty. Its increase during the year has been greater than 
during au^- previous year except the first, when the nucleus of the col- 
lection was formed from the collections received from different national 
departments at the Centennial, and the gifts of W. H. Schieffelin & Co., 
of New York, tLe accessions having been remarkable for their interest 
and value. Amongst the most important accessions may be mentioned 
those received from the Governments of Jamaica, Japan, and Mexico ; 
the collection of Dr. Edward Palmer from the States and Territories of 
the Southwest; and the gifts of F, Stearns & Co., of Detroit, Mich., 
and W. S. Thompson, of Washington, D. C. 

There are 3,326 specimens on exhibition, to 1,457 of which are attached 
l)rinted labels. The entire collection now includes 4,850 specimens, and 
409 entries have been added to the catalogue during the year. A de- 
scriptive catalogue of the collection is now in preparation and will prob- 
ably be completed in the coming year. 

The attention of the curator has been devoted esx)ecially to perfect- 
ing and completing the collection in accordance with the very elaborate 
plan which is presented in Part II, of the Museum Eeport. 

In addition to the work upon the collection the curator has been 
carryingon important investigations on the physiological action of drugs. 
Seven original x^apers embodying the results of his investigations have 
been published, two are in press, and others are in progress. 

Since the hall containing the fisheries collection was opened to the 
public, in May, 1884, there has been constant improvement in the con- 
dition of the material exhibited, and a number of important additions 
have been made, although from the fact that the collections are already 
so complete, its growth has been comparatively less extensive than that 
of tbe other departments. The fisheries of North America are already 
so thoroughly represented that there can be but little necessity for ex- 
tending this portion of the department except by keeping it abreast of 
the time, by exhibiting modern improvements in aj)paratus, and by the 
building up of certain local series of slight importance, such as the 
Chinese fishery apparatus from the Pacific coast. There are still want- 
ing illustrations of the foreign fisheries, some of which have been filled 
since this department has been referred to in this report. Important 
collections have been received from the Government of Siam, through 
Minister Halderman j from the Government of Japan ; and the exten- 
sive collections from Great Britain, Sweden, Spain, France, Holland, 
and Greece, acquired at the close of the London Exhibition, have been 
since incorporated in the exhibition series. 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 



35 



No tlcpartmciit of the Museum is perhaps more at a disadvantage from 
the limited si^ace which it occupies than this, lu the recent exhibition 
at London, the American section alone occupied nearly three times the 
space which is here occupied by fishery exhibits from all parts of the 
world. Many important things cannot be displayed, others of interest 
are suspended from the wall at so great a height that they are seen by 
but few, and cannot be examined by those M'ho know of their existence, 
while it is impossible to group together by countries, properly, series of 
specimens which would be much improved by this kind of installation. 
Furthermore, the cases are so closely massed that the availability of the 
collection is interfered with. The section of fish-culture is almost en- 
tirely crowded out, many of the most important objects having been sent 
elsewhere ibr storage. The fisheries collection has been for the past two 
years under the curatorship of E. Edward Earll, who also has in hand 
the collection of animal products, which, since the return of the collec- 
tions from the New Orleans Exhibition, has been installed in a very 
eflective manner in one of the large central halls. This collection, which 
was begun in connection with the Philadelphia Exhibition and greatly 
extended for that of New Orleans, is of great popular interest^ as well 
as of considerable economic importance. The 1,597 specimens now on 
exhibition illustrate the applications of all products derived from the 
animal kingdom in the arts and industries. Not more than half the ma- 
terial available for the purpose is now displayed to the public, though 
this collection like that of fisheries is one which, derives much of its 
value from having each class represented by a large number of speci- 
mens, since every additional well selected object adds to the interest 
of the objects exhibited. The total number of specimens is 2,793. 

The collection of historic relics includes objects of national interest 
relating to the history of soldiers, statesmen, and important events, and 
includes several hundred objects. This collection has been increased 
during the year by the addition of many manuscript pai^ers, including 
letters, military orders, and other ofQcial i^apers, pertaining to the co- 
lonial Government and to the periods of the Eevolutionary and later 
wars. The most prominent exhibit is that of the Washington relics, 
transferred to the Museum in 1883 by the Commissioner of Patents, 
and consisting of several hundred objects, including many articles of 
household use, that belonged to Washington, besides his tents and 
camp equipage, used by him during the Eevolutionary war. There are 
also many relics of other soldiers and naval oflicers, presented to them 
by foreign Governments. Among these may be mentioned swords and 
guns presented to President Jefferson, Commodore Perry, General Eip- 
ley. General Grant, and others. There are also memorials of many of 
the Arctic expeditions sent out by the United States and English Gov- 
ernments during the last forty years, including relics of Sir John Frank- 
lin, McClintock, Kane, Hall, and De Long's expeditions. There have 
been added during the year a number of relics of the Southern Confed- 



36 KEPOET OF THE SECRETARY. 

eracy, aucl it is liox)ed to largely iucrease this interesting collection by 
the addition of similar memorials of the Northern armies. The collec- 
tion of coins and medals is receiving some additions, and already about 
2,000 specimens have been placed on exhibition. The medals pertain- 
ing to the history of the United States were deposited in the Museum 
by the Director of the Mint, and include bronze copies in dui)licate of 
all the medals that have been struck at the Mint since its organization. 
Numerous foreign medals, presented to the Smithsonian Institution at 
various times, are also arranged in thi« collection. The coin series is 
fast increasing, and much work has been done in classifying and label- 
ing about 2,000 spccimeus of ancient Greek and Roman coins, recently 
l^resented to the Museum. It is intended to arrange a series of the coins 
by countries, showing with them also paper currency and iiostage 
stamps, giving, as far as possible, the history of each coinage. Mr. A. 
Howard Clark has been placed in charge of this specialty. 

Closely related to the historical collection is the series illustrating the 
history of steam transi)ortation., umler the charge of Mr. J. E. Watkins, 
of Camden, N. J. The John Bull engine, imi)orted from England in 
1831, the model after which all subsequent American engines have 
been constructed, has been given to the Museum by the Pennsylvania 
Eailroad Company and x^laced on exhibition j and adjoining this is a 
case in which there are already assembled about forty objects illustrating 
the beginnings of the American railroad system. It is greatly to be 
hoped that this important subject may be given an opportunity to grow. 

The collection of scientific instruments owes its interest at present 
chiefly to the historical associations of most of the apparatus displayed, 
including as it does instruments used by PriesMy, Uenry, and Hare. 
The original telegraphic instrument of Morse and A^ail is also here 
shown. 

The collections of musical instruments, modern pottery, and i)orcelaiu, 
lacquer, and the process of engraving are partially disphayed, and when 
cases and floor space shall become available, will soon develop into im- 
portant features. 

II. (A) Department of Ethnologi}. — The growth of the department of 
Ethnology during the year has been very great. The principal efforts 
of the curator. Prof. O. T. Mason, are still in the direction of reducing 
material to systematic order and arranging it in a manner available for 
future study and exhibition. Much more space is necessary for the 
proper prosecution of this work. Owing to this fact, as well as to delay 
in construction of cases and i)rinting of labels, several series nearly 
ready for final display cannot at present be exhibited. 

The department, although one of the largest, is one of the youngest 
in the Museum. To the science of ethnology have not been applied 
hitherto those rules of strict classification long i)revalcnt in the other 
natural sciences, and it has l\illen to the lot of the new curator to de- 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 37 

velop a detailed system of arrangement in conneetiou with, tlie prelimi- 
nary handling of the collections. With this object in view, certain 
rooms and areas have been assigned, and in these have been grouped, 
with special reference to their final installation, certain large classes of 
objects, such as the weapons of war and the chase, implements of agri- 
culture, and other iirimitive industries. In addition to these groat 
series of objects, classified according to function, other groups of objects 
have been arranged in accordance with another idea of classification, 
which is deemed of equal imi^ortance, namely, that of race. 

The Eskimo collection, for instance, has been arranged in table cases 
in one of the exhibition halls, in accordance with the ethnic idea, although 
in the minor details of classification function and form, as well as geo- 
graphical distribution, have been followed. 

A preliminary study of the collection of basketry has been completed. 
A paper upon the baskets of uncivilized peoples, with numerous illus- 
trations, was published in the Museum report for 1884, and a represent- 
ative series placed on exhibition with provisional labels. The throwiug- 
sticks and sinew back-bows have been the subject of papers, and are 
now on exhibition. The curator has in progress investigations upon 
several groups of objects, notably the history and technology of archery; 
upon transportation as eftected by man without the aid of domestic 
animals or mechanism; upon the peculiar industries of several handi- 
crafts; upon the Hoopah Indians of California. 

The underlying ideas in these investigations, a first installment of 
which was published in the last report of this Museum, are (1) that 
the methods of strict classification and nomenclature already applied 
in the other natural sciences are equally applicable to anthropology; (2) 
that a trustworthy and minute study of modern savage and barbarous 
technique is absolutely requisite to the archa3ologist and technologist 
in reconstructing the history of civilization. 

II (B). Beparlment of American Aboriginal Fotiery. — The collections 
in this department have continued to increase with astonishing rapidity, 
and the extensive accessions which have been received through the 
Bureau of Ethnology, and from other sources, have been of the great- 
est scientific importance and popular interest. One of the four large 
central halls of the Museum is devoted entirely to this subject, and the 
removal of the collections of South American aboriginal pottery and of 
the extensive collections from the mounds which have for many years 
been accumulating in the Arch Geological Hall of the Smithsonian build- 
ing, have filled it up to such an extent that it is difficult to find room 
for the new material as it comes in. 

During the year a portion of the hall has been thrown open to tlie 
public, although it has been necessary to retain one-half of the floor space 
as a work room. The exhibition case surrounding the walls of this 
room is probably the largest in existence in any museum, being 2C0 feet 



38 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

in length, 4 feet 9 inches in depth, and, being double throughout, its 
entire length is virtually 520 feet. Double the space now allotted this 
department is necessary for its proper display, and the value of the 
material here concentrated is practically inestimable, since even tlie 
modern tribes, who are still making pottery similar in its general char- 
acter to that which is here preserved, have deteriorated to such a 
degree in their artistic capacity or skill, that their products are not 
therefore an exponent of their original artistic cax)abilities. So ex- 
haustive and monographic is this collection that it is impossible that 
any thorough work can be done upon the American aboriginal pottery 
which shall not in great part be based upon this collection. 

The detail from the Bureau of Ethnology of Mr. William H. Holmes 
as honorary curator of this department has been continued. 

In addition to his administrative work, ho has been engaged in the 
preparation of a monograph of a number of collections from the prov- 
ince of Chiriqni in Colombia. 

The collections made under the direction of the Bureau of Ethnology 
in the Mississippi Valley by Dr. Cyrus Thomas, are deserving of special 
mention, as well as those of Col. J^mes Stevenson and Mr. E. W. Nelson 
in the Pueblo country of the Southwest. 

III. De])artmcnt of Antiquities. — The report of the curator, Dr. Eau, 
for the current year, is an exhaustive geographical review of the acces- 
sions, some of the most important of which are illustrated by draw- 
ings. The total number of accessions has been 2,751; all excepting 84 
were of sufficient importance to be added to the exhibition and study 
series, which now include over 40,000 specimens. In the arrangement of 
the archseological collections. Dr. Eau is taking advantage of the addi- 
tional space placed at his command by the removal of the ethnological 
collections to the new building, to display his material in a manner more 
instructive to the public and more useful to the -special investigator. 

The general collection is now, and was in the past, arranged primarily 
by material; all objects of stone are together, as are also those of cop- 
per, bone, horn, shell, clay, and wood; secondarily by form and func- 
tion, stone pestles, arrow-heads, or knives are placed together, the 
rudest and most primitive beginning the series, the most perfect at its 
close, the locality of each specimen being clearly indicated upon its 
label. Stone celts are arranged, and similar groups are made of ham- 
mered knives, &c.; thirdly, a progressive arrangement is adopted, the 
rudest and most primitive of the celts, for instance, being at the be- 
ginning of the series, and the most perfect and elaborate at the end. 

Daring the year one hundred and nineteen of these special collec- 
tions have been^ placed on exhibition. This form of special collection 
is becoming of great importance in this department as well as in the 
department of ethnology which has already been referred to. The rapid 
increase at the present time in the department of archaeology is due to 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 39 

the work aoue by the parties sent out for exploration by the Bureau of 
Ethnology. This policy, although more thoroughly carried out than 
has been practicable hitherto, dates back to the jearly history of the 
Museum. Certain monographic collections of this sort have been on 
exhibition since 1870 or longer. 

Dr. Eau is engaged upon the preparation of an illustrated work on 
North American prehistoric objects, which is designed to serve as a 
guide for visitors to the department and as an exjilanation of the termi- 
nology of North American archreology. This will bear the title, "A 
Classification of the North American Prehistoric Relics in the United 
States National Museum." This book will be fully illustrated and it is 
hoped will be published in the ensuing year. 

IV. Bepar'tmcnt of Mammals. — The most important accessions to this 
department in this, as in x)revious years, have been in the shape of single 
specimens sent from zoological gardens and menageries, which have 
shown a great deal of liberality to the Museum in this respect. 

The administrative work of the department has been directed chiefly 
to the preparation for an entire rearrangement of the exhibition series, 
when the promised new cases shall have been comiileted. Many of the 
most valuable specimens in the mounted series are of such a large size 
that it has not hitherto been practicable to inclose them under glass or 
to protect them from mutilation. The larger laboratory rooms into 
which the department moved just before the beginning of the year 
have been utilized for an entire rearrangement of the collection which 
hitherto has been stored in the bases of the cases in the exhibition hall. 
The entire collection has been carefully studied and identified with.the 
exception of the Soricidcc, and good progress was made in the prepara- 
tion of the card catalogue of the collection. 

The curator, Mr. F.^W. True, has in progress extensive investigations 
on American cetaceans, and is at present engaged upon a revision of 
the dolphins of the world. During the yearhe visited various points 
on the coast of North Carolina, in behalf of the Fisli Commission, to se- 
cure material for his work. A report was prepared during the year upon 
the uiammals collected by E. W. Nelson and C. L. McKay in Alaska. 

V (A). Department of Birds. — The growth of the department during 
the year has been very satisfactory, the number of specimens added to 
the collection being 4,147. The largest single accession was the collec- 
tion made by the U. S. Fish Commission steamer Albatross in the 
Bahamas, of 1,000 specimens and about 75 species, of which 5 were new 
to science. Another valuable collection, 243 specimens, 81 species,! 
new to the fauna of North America, was obtained in Alaska by Mr. 
Charles H. Townsend while on a mission for the Fish Commission. Mr. 
Henry Seebohm, of London, has given to the Museum 171 specimens, 
68 species, chiefly from Siberia, and of great value to the collections. 



40 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

All important part of the administrative work of the curator has been 
the extension of the collections through exchange, and several of the 
most important accessions have been thus acquired. Among the most 
important exchanges have been those with the Musee d'Histoire Nat- 
urello, of Paris, 80 specimens, 79 species, from Madagascar and Cochin 
China 5 with the British Museum, 225 specimens, 179 species, from In- 
ilia and Europe; with the Mexican Geographical Exploring Expedition, 
J 35 specimens, 75 species, and with Count Uans Von Berlepsch, of 
JMii^den, Germany, CO specimens, 50 species, of South American birds. 
Two thousand five hundred and eighty-one specimens have been sent 
out in exchange and a full equivalent received. The routine work has 
been j^ushed forward as rapidly as possible, the exhibition series having 
been entirely arranged and twelve additional exhibition cases filled. 
More than half of the mounted collection has been transferred to exhi- 
bition stands of the improved standard, recently adopted. The final 
labeling of the exhibition series has been deferred by delays at the 
Government Printing Ofllce, and advantage has been taken of the delay 
to revise the labels, in order that they may accord with the order of 
classification adopted by the American Ornithologists' Union. The 
" Code and Check -list of Xorth American Pirds," adopted by the Ameri- 
can Ornithologists' Union, which has been published during the year, 
was prepared by a committee of the Union holding its sessions in the 
Ornithological Laboratory of the jMuseum, and the systematic work in- 
volved was based ui>oii the national collections. The almost universal 
adoption of this check-list in America, and the consequent harmony of 
arrangement between the national collections and those in niiiseiiin col- 
lections throughout the country, will not only greatly facilitate the work 
of this department in the future, but will be of great advantage to the 
ju-ogress of ornithology. 

The curator, Mr. Pidgway, and the assistant curator, Dr. Stejneger, 
have published about fifty pai)ers upon the collections during the year, 
occupying about 500 octavo pages. 

Among the investigations in progress are Mr. Ridgway's studies 
of IJm2yi(Jona.r, ruffinus, Larus, Jl^'strclata, Colinus, and Lagoons. ]\rr. 
Pidgway has also in preparation a manual of Xorth American birds for 
the use of naturalists and sportsmen. Dr. Stejneger has in preparation 
a monograph of the birds of Japan, for use in the preparation of which 
the Japanese Government has sent out a largo number of specimens. 

Another important research completed during the year was that by 
Professor Ferrari-Perez, of the Geographical Exploring Ivxpedition of 
jMexico, upon the birds of Mexico, the entire collection of birds among 
the national collections having been brought to "Washington for deter- 
mination and comparison, and his paper being based upon the studies 
of the two iiatioiuil collections. 

The number of specimens in the collection is now 35,945, 7,000 of 
which have been set apart for the exhibition series. The universal cry 



REPORT OF THE SI^CRETARY. 41 

for more s[).ace is especially loud from the oruitliologisis, who miglit 
readily fill it with material suitable for exhibition. 

V (B). Department of Ooloijy. — Tlie collection of egj^s and uests of 
birds has been under the honorary curatorshij) of Capt. Charles E. 
Beudire, U. S. Army, and very much has been accomplished during the 
year in its classification and arrangement. The total number of speci- 
mens added is 2,55G in 253 lots, and there are now more than 44,000 speci- 
mens in the collection, of which 1,491 arc in the exhibition and 31,124 
in the reserve collection, the remainder having been set aside as dupli- 
cates. The most important accession of the year was obtained in ex- 
change from Capt. B. F. Goss, of Pewaukee, Wis., G41 specimens. 111 
species. Captain Bendire has continued his own gifts to the Museum. 
Another important accession is the collection obtained by tha Albatross 
in the Bahamas in ISSO. The oological collections are arranged in an 
inconvenient apartment in the I\luseum, and, if sjiace allowed, should 
be assigned an apartment at least twice as large, in ])roximity to the 
ornithological collections. 

YI. Department of Eeptile.^, — The department has continued under the 
honorary curatorship of Dr. II. C. Yarrow. The collections are massed 
together in a small basement room, and a series of painted casts of the 
largest species of snakes and turtles of IsTorth America is the only por- 
tion of the collection displayed to the public. This collection is ex- 
ceedingly ricl), nearly every species of North American reptiles and batra- 
chians being included, and the total number of specimens being estimated 
at 25,334. An exhibition series of 750 specimens has been selected, but 
there is no room for its display. Dui-ing the year Prof K. I). Cope, of 
Philadelphia, who has been occupied, under the direction of the Smith- 
sonian Institution, in the preparation of a report upon the reptiles of 
North America, has completed the identification of the Museum collec- 
tion of batrachians, and has identified and described in Museum pub- 
lications collections made by the various corresiiondents of the Museum 
in Mexico and Central and South America. 

YII. Department of Fishes. — In no department of the Museum perhajis 
is there so great a discrepancy between the extent of the collections 
and the amount of space available for their administration, and the 
progress toward an ideally satisfactory arrangement is therefore greatly 
retarded. Good progress has been made during the year, however, and 
the curator, Dr. T. IT. Bean, reports that all the material under his charge, 
except recent collections made by the U. S. Pish Commission in tlie 
deep-sea regions of the Atlantic, has been catalogued, the total number 
of entries at the end of the year being 37,893, of which G62 have been 
made during the yeai . The work of preparing illustrations of the most 
important of the American species has been carried forward l)y tlie cura- 
tor, and drawings of 7S species have been made. 



42 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

The card catalogue of the reserved series, which has been in prep- 
aration for several years, has now been completed, and this card-cata- 
logue, it is needless to say, proves to be invaluable as an aid to speedy 
access to the specimens, as well as being a readily available systematic 
index to the entire collection. 

A large amount of duplicate material, including at least 15,000 speci- 
mens, has been set aside for distribution, and is ready for exchange or 
distribution as soon as time can be spared to separate it into lots and 
packages. 

The entire collection has been overhauled and put in the best possible 
condition. An idea of its extent may be given by the fact that in order 
to fill up bottles that have become partly empty by evaporation and 
replace the alcohol, which had become unfit for use, twenty-five barrels 
of alcohol were required. 

The bulk of the larger specimens is still necessarily kept in copper 
tanks J but everything that could be conveniently transferred to glass 
has been placed in jars during the year, thus securing greater accessi- 
bility and safety from destruction. 

Heavy drafts have been made upon the time of the curator through 
his occupation as editor of the publications of the Museum, and it is 
hoped for the good of the Department that he may be relieved of this 
extra service. He has, however, carried on the customary amount of 
special research, having identified and reported upon a collection of 
fishes from Jamaica, forwarded by the public museum of that colony ; 
on a collection of fishes from Alaska, sent in by Lieut. Commander H. 
E. Nichols, U. S. li^avy, besides a collection of fishes from Central Mexico 
sent in by Professor Dug^s. 

Much of the research work of the curator has, however, in connec- 
tion with Mr. Goode, been directed towards the preparation of a report 
upon the extensive deep-sea collections of the U. S. Fish Commission, 
and those obtained by Mr. Alexander Agassiz in connection with the 
work of the TJ. S. Coast Survey. 

The work of this department was, during the mouths of August and 
September, 1885, transferred to the Fish Commission headquarters at 
Wood's Holl, where all the deep-sea collections were concentrated, over- 
hauled, classified, and catalogued, and systematic investigations carried 
on — a portion of the results of which has already been made public, and 
the remainder of which it is hoped will soon appear in a monograph of 
the deep-sea fish fauna of the Eastern Atlantic, which has been for 
some years in preparation. 

The ease with which this extensive collection was handled in the large 
rooms which were available for the purpose at Wood's Holl, offers an 
illustration of the great need for the better accommodation of the 
fish collection in Washington. Work was finished in a few weeks at 
Wood's Holl which it would have required four or five months to have 



EEPOKT OF THE SECRETARY. * 43 

accomplished in the cramped work-rooms in Washington. The collec- 
tions which under these more favorable conditions had been overhauled, 
identified, properly catalogued, and arranged were returned to Wash- 
ington in October and November, and replaced upon the shelves in sys- 
tematic order, where they, are now being worked up as rapidly as pos- 
sible. 

IX. JDei)artment ofMolluslcs. — The department of mollusks under cue 
curatorship of Mr. W. H. Dall and Mr. E. E. 0. Stearns, has made ex- 
tensive progress during the year, especially in .he matter of catalogu- 
ing and arranging the accumulations of past years. The amount of 
work accomplished is well shown by the number of catalogue entries, 
which is 18,638, representing between fifty and sixty thousand individ- 
ual specimens. Only three times as many entries were made in the 
catalogue of this department during the preceding twenty years. The 
number of entries docs not represent the accessions of the year which 
contained, however, much that was valuable and interesting. The clas. 
sification and systematic arrangement of the accessions of previous 
years, especially the Jeffreys collection and the Stearns collection, have 
made extensive demands upon the attention of the staff. It may fairly 
be said that there never has been an exhibition col lection of mollusks, 
although many years ago a few cases of shells were incidentally dis- 
played. A beginning has been made by the curator in the work of de- 
veloping this collection, and one experimental case containing the chief 
types of cephalopods, pearls and pearl formations, cameo shells, and 
sections showing the internal structure of various large and ornamen- 
tal species, has been placed on exhibition. A provisional display is also 
made of the principal economic mollusks of North America. There is, 
however, no space available for exhibition of molluscan collections, and 
the laboratory rooms are inadequate and inconvenient, so that even the 
task of making the collections available for the use of students is much 
more difficult than it should be, and what is being done may be looked 
npon as preparatory to the occupation of more suitable apartments 
when such shall have been provided. 

The main features of the work of the year may be stated as follows: 
The identification of specimens for teachers and others in various parts 
of the United States; the identification and classification of the recent 
or living mollusks of the Atlantic coast of North America, as well as 
those of the Antillean-Caribbean region, in order to facilitate compari- 
son and investigation of the later fossils with related living forms ; the 
arrangement of land, pond and fluviatile gastropods, as well as the 
fresh- water acephala for the purposes of comparison and investigation 
in the matter of geographical distribution and variation of species as 
related to and affected by environment and environmental conditions. 

The foregoing, as a whole, bears directly or indirectly upon the 
geological phenomena and physical conditions, present and past, of the 
continent of North America, &c., and the connection of the latter with 



44 iJEPORf OF THE SECRETARY. 

the Asiatic iiud European continents. Ultimately by means of the am- 
ple collection of Jeffreys in Great Britain and Northern Europe, of Dall 
in Alaska and the North Pacific, of Stearns' West American and gen- 
eral collection, and the accumulations of molluscan forms received from 
the U. S. Fish Commission, the student will be enabled to pursue the 
biological history and connections of the two great oceans which bound 
the North American continent, as well as the opposite regions of Eu- 
rope and Asia. 

Among the most imj)ortant investigations in progress is that of Mr. 
Dall upon the deep-sea mollusks, and his studies upon the Quaternary 
molluscan fauna of the United States, and the continuation of j)revious 
investigations by Mr. Stearns on the geographical' distribution of the 
land and fresh-water mollusks of North America and the variation of 
the same, as related to and affected by the physical characters of their 
environment. 

X. Department of Entomology. — Although the department of insects 
in the National Museum was organized three years ago, little has hitherto 
been attempted beyond the care-taking necessary for the preservation 
of the material already on hand ; the honorary (or unpaid) curator of 
the department, Dr. 0. Y. Riley, having had comparatively little aid 
from the ]\Tuseum appropriation in the matter of construction of cases 
or the employment of assistants. At the beginning of the present 
fiscal year a salaried assistant-curatorship was established, to which 
Mr. John B. Smith was appointed. Additional accommodations in the. 
laboratory and exhibition hall had been provided, and the study-col- 
lections and the exhibition series are now being rapidly extended. 

In October, Dr. C. V. Eiley formally presented to the Museum his 
private collection of North American insects, representing the fruits of 
his own labors in collecting and study for over twenty-five years. This 
collection contains over 115,000 pinned specimens, and much additional 
material unpinned and in alcohol. 

This generous gift to the Government has long been contemplated by 
Dr. Riley, whose ambition it is to be, so far as possible, instrumental 
in forming a national collection of insects, and who is satisfied that his 
collection will form an excellent nucleus for future accumulations. In 
his letter of i^resentation he remarks : 

.''While the future of any institution dependent on Congressional 
support may not bo so certain as that of one sui^ported by endowment, 
I make this donation in the firm belief and full confidence that the Na- 
tional Museum is already so well established in public estimation that 
it must inevitably grow until it shall rival and ultimately surpass other 
institutions in this country, or the world, as a repository of natural- 
history collections. 

''If there shall in the future result the concentration here at the na- 
tional capital of the extensive entomological material which naturally 
comes here, and which in the past has been scattered amoug specialists 
in all parts of the country, so tliat in the future the student may find 



KEPOKT OF THE SECRETARY. 45 

valiijiblc material to furtlier liis \\ork in any order, I sliall feel amply 
rewarded for the action I Lave taken." 

A recent census of tlic national collection of insects has been taken, 
the results of which are published in the curator's report for the year. 

XI. department of Marine Invertebrates. — The U. S. Fish Cominis- 
sion has continued to be the principal contributor to this department, 
which is in charge of Mr. Eichard Eathbuu. The steamer yl?i«Yro.s-.s' 
remained in active service during the most of the year, making explora- 
tions along the entire eastern coast of North America, from the Grand 
Bank of Newfoundland to Southern Florida and the Bahamas. A large 
part of the region visited, and especially the imi)ortant fishing banks 
located off the coast 'of the British provinces and the deep-water areas 
about the Bahama Eeefs, had never been systematically investigated 
before, and the biological results were, therefore, of the greatest value. 
Over two hundred and fifty successful hauls were made with the dredge, 
beam trawl, and tangles, the deepest cast having been in 2,731 fathoms, 
or considerably over 3 miles. The amount of material obtained was 
very large, and many of the groups of marine invertebrates are now in 
the hands of siDCcialists for study. Important contributions Nvere also 
received from other sources: notably a fine series of deep-sea soundings 
from the southern Atlantic and Pacific Oceans, made by the U. S. S. 
Enterjn-ise, and large collections from the Western and Northwestern 
coasts off America and Siberia. One of the most interesting accessions 
consists of microscopical x)reparations of nearly two hundred species 
of British sponges, mainl}^ described or identified by the late Doctor 
Bowerbank, and supplied by Ciinon A. M. Norman, a distinguished 
English naturalist, to whom the Museum was previously indebted for 
important exchanges. 

The west hall of the Smithsonian Institntion, which has served as a 
work-room for this department during most of the past three years, has 
been permanently opened to the public, although no considerable 
changes have recently been made in the arrangement of the display 
collections. The northwest gallery of the main hall is now used for the 
storage and examination of the drietl sjiecimens of marine invertebrates, 
and an additional large store-room has been fitted uj) in the basement 
for alcoholic collections which have had an unparalleled growth- during 
the past few years. The work of identifying the collection of Echini 
has been completed, and that group is now conveniently arranged for 
reference and study. It contains 152 species, many of which are repre- 
sented by extensive series of specimens covering a wide range of distri- 
bution. A list of all the specimens has been prepared for publication. 
The Hon. Theodore Lyman has continued his work upon the collection 
of Ophiurans belonging to the Museum, and is now engaged in study- 
ing the specimens obtained by the steamer Albatross south of Cape 
Hatteras, and those from the western coast of North America, includ- 



46 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

iug Alaska. Prof. A. E. Yerrill, Prof. S. I. Smith, and several otbei 
naturalists are still engaged as collaborators upon Fish Commission 
collections, some of which have been transferred to the Museum during 
the past year, while others are exi)ected at an early date. Large num- 
bers of duplicate specimens have been distributed to institutions of 
learning throughout the country. 

XII. JJejjartmcnt of Comparative Anatomy. — The work in this depart- 
ment, of which Mr. P. W. True is curator, is at present confined to a 
development of the osteological collection which is already of consider- 
able dimensions and occupies one of the entire exhibition halls. The addi- 
tions to this department have been comparatively few, the steady in- 
crease in the exhibition series of material being the result of cleaning and 
mounting skeletons which had come into the Museum in previous years. 

Attention has been directed especially to obtaining skeletons of thor- 
oughbred domestic animals, and a considerable number of specimens 
representing the important breeds of dogs, have been obtained during 
the year. In this series a single case is devoted to the comparison of 
the vertebrse of the different, groups of vertebrates. Of the cervical 
vertebrte a considerable number of typical forms have been j)laced side 
by side ; in another series the dorsal, in another the caudal vertebrce. 
Another part of the series shows the limbs of the vertebrates arranged 
so that their parts can be readily compared. In still another case is ex- 
hibited the structure of bones and the teeth, and so on through the en- 
tire structure of the skeleton. 

A card catalogue of the skeletons of the mammals, which constitute 
the greater bulk of the collection, has been completed. 

XIII. Department of Invertebrate Fossils — (A) Paleozoic Section. — Mr. 
C. D. Walcott, of the Geological Survey, honorary curator, reports that 
the collection now contains over 80,000 specimens, of which 7,833 have 
been added during the year, a large portion of this material having 
been transferred from the Geological Survey. The collection has been 
personally arranged by him during the two years of his connection with 
the Museum, and is now contained in sixteen table-cases in one of the 
I)rincipal halls of the Museum. Nothing has yet been exhibited, but as 
soon as cases shall have been i)rovided, a very interesting series already 
selected may be placed upon view. Mr. "Walcott's attention is at present 
especially directed to the formation of a systematic collection of the 
Cambrian fossils of the United States, as well as for securing a study 
collection from typical localities in the Lower Silurian and Devonian 
formations. 

The special research upon w^hich Mr. Walcott is engaged in behalf of 
the Geological Survey is the study of the stratigraphy and paleontology 
of the Cambrian system of North America, During the past year the 
results of a preliminary study of the Middle Cambrian was published 
as Bulletin 30 of the U. S. Geological Survey. 



KEPOET OF THE SECRETARY. 47 

(B) Mesozoic Section. — Dr. 0. A. White, of the U. S. Geological Survey, 
honorary curator, reports a total of 1,5G3 entries in the catalogue dur- 
ing the year. The princii)al additions are those which have been sent 
by the U. S. Geological Survey. The work of arranging and classify- 
ing the collections has progressed steadily, and they are now accessible 
for purposes of study. The provisional arrangement is purely strati- 
grai^hical, only a broad biological classification having been attempted 
under each geological period. The tyj)e specimens have been re-identi. 
fied by Mr. J. B. Marcou, who has i)ublished a catalogue of the same 
in the Proceedings of the Museum.* 

(C) Genozoio Section. — This department, organized since the change of 
Mr. Dall from the Coast Survey to tLie Geological Survey, in which he 
is oflicially serving as paleontologist in charge of the later formations, 
is practically incorporated with the department of mollusks. 

XIV and XV. De])art7nents of Fossil and Recent Plants. — The botanical 
collections are under the honorary curatorship of Prof. Lester F.Ward, 
of the U. S. Geological Survey, and Mr. F. H. Knowltou, one of the assist- 
ants of the Museum. The attention of th€ curator is chiefly directed 
toward the study of the fossil plants, a subject upon which he is now 
the principal American authority. His sketch of the history and pres- 
ent condition of fossil botany, published during the year as one of the 
bulletins of the Geological Survey, gives an excellent idea of the char- 
acter of the work he has undertaken to accomi)lish in connection with 
the national collections. The number of si)ecimens added during the 
year has not been great, attention having been chiefly concentrated 
upon the preliminary work of classification and arrangement. The 
herbarium of recent plants contains now not less than 30,000 specimens. 
The largest and most valuable accessions during the year were the col- 
lections from Texas and the adjacent States and Te1?ritories, gift of 
Dr. V. Havard, U. S. Army, the types of his paper upon "the Flora of 
Texas," published iu the Proceedings of the Museum. An important 
piece of routine work accomplished has been the completion of the card- 
catalogue of the Joad collection of Old World plants, recently acquired 
from the Botanical Gardens at Kew, through the Harvard Herbarium. 
This collection contains about 10,000 species, 9,000 of which were new 
to the herbarium. The card- catalogue system, as applied to the arrange- 
ment of the American herbarium, has proved to be of great practical 
value, since it renders it possible to ascertain the presence or absence 
of any species without going through cases. 

"This," remarks the curator, "is believed to be the only large her- 
barium in this country iu which this system has been adopted, and the 
labor of keeping it up will be very slight compared with what it would 
be to prepare such a catalogue after the accumulation of a great mass 
of material. No species is considered as belonging to the collection 

* Vol. VIII, pp. 290-344. 



48 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

until its card lius lirst been written and entered. Besides convenience 
of consultation, this system possesses another point of advantage in 
that it furnishes the source of a record, easily accessible, of the exact 
status and magnitude of the collections, a matter which is open to much 
speculation when no such data are at hand. 

" The poisoning: of specimens newlv received has occupied much time. 
About 5,000 specimens have been pern)anently protected from the rav- 
ages of insects. A complete immersion of the specimens in a saturated 
alcoholic solution of strychnine has been found most eflicacious. 

"The work which has required the largest amount of time has been 
the selection of nuiterial for mounting. Instead of mounting indiscrimi- 
nately the mass of duplicate material which constantly comes to a col- 
lection of this character, a careful comparison is always made in order 
to be certain that the specimens Avill actually add to the ones already 
in hand ; either a difl'erent phase of the plant or a new and interesting- 
locality. In this manner pure duplication is checked and the growth 
of the herbarium made to accommodate itself, as nearly as possible, to 
the present somewhat restricted space. As rapidly as the specimens 
selected can be mounted, they are added to their systematic place to 
the herbarium, so that no large amount of this new material is allowed 
to accumulate and remain inaccessible.'' 

XVI. Bcuartmcnt of Minerals. — The department of minerals, so long 
in a quiescent condition, is now making rapid progress under the direc- 
tion of Prof. F. AY. Clarke, of tbe U. S. Geological Survey, who is its 
honorary curator, assisted by ]Mr. W. IS. Yeates. An extensive system 
of exchanges has been carried on during the year w ith private collectors 
and with a number of public museums,among which may be mentioned 
the ficole des Mines in Paris, the museum at Annecy in Savoy, the Uni- 
versity of Sydney, Australia, and Amherst College, Massachusetts, and 
an unusual number of gifts have been received from individuals and 
institutions. 

The total increase in the number of specimens during the year has 
been nearly 800. The number of specimens in the collection, including 
duplicates, is 18,401, about 1,500 of which are on exhibition. The exhibi- 
tion space of the department is already overcrowded and the collection 
for public display cannot be increased until more cases can be provided. 
Much has been accomplished, however, in the improvement of the ar- 
rangement of both study and exhibition series, and the classification is 
more perfect than before. The collection of gems and ornamental stones 
has received its full share of attention, and a description of this will be 
printed in the Museum report during the coming year. Special atten- 
tion has been given to the enlargement of the meteorite collection. The 
proper growth of this collection is greatly impeded, perhaps more so 
than any other, by a lack of funds for the purchase of valuable speci- 
mens which now invariably fall into the hands of dealers and foreign 
museums. 



REPORT OF TUE .SECRETAIiY. 49 

The scieutilic work uyou ibe collection has been mostly doue iu con- 
nection with the work of tbe Geological Survey. Professor Clarke is en- 
gaged in an investigation of the chemical structnre of the silicates, and 
tbere are also in i>rogress in his laboratory in the Mnseum building a 
revision of the borates and a full series of analyses of the mineral tour- 
maline. 

XVII. iJepartment of Lithology and Physical Geology. — The increase of 
tbe department, though not so large as in the previous years, has been 
healtby and symmetrical. Among the more important accessions may 
be mentioned a collection of rocks and building stones of Mexico, ob- 
tained by exchange from tbe Mexican Geographical Exploring Expedi- 
tion; a series of tbe rocks of continental Euroi^e, obtained by exchange 
from the museum at Annecy, Savoy; a series of typical marbles from 
Pickens County, Georgia, gift of the Georgia Marble Company, and a 
series of building stones obtained from the State commissioner of Soutb 
Carolina at tbe Xew Orleans Exposition, and a vertical column repre- 
senting the proportional thickness of the Archean, Cambrian, and Silu- 
rian rocks of Xew Hampshire, obtained by exchange from Prof. C. H. 
Hitchcock, 

Tbe exhibition series has continued to increase, and all the available 
cases are already filled, and much material ready for disi)lay as soon as 
others are constructed. Tbe time of tbe curator and his assistant has 
been fully occupied in tbe development of the exhibition series, in the 
preparation of copy for labels, and in the completion of classification of 
tbe study series. A number of beautiful and instructive relief maps, 
placed in tbe Museum by tbe U. S. Geological Survey, have been pro- 
vided with cases and put on exhibition. Chief among these are the 
models of Mount Taylor, Xew Mexico: Washoe District, Nevada; Eu- 
reka District, Zsevada; Uinta and Wasatch Mountains, Utah,- Lead- 
ville and vicinity, Colorado; the same in sections; High Plateaus of 
Utah; Henry Mountains, Utah; stereogram of the Henry Mountains, 
Utah; Elk Mountains, Colorado; Yosemite Talley, California, and the 
Yellowstone National Park. Of the various exhibition series in process 
of preparation, the collections of rock-forming minerals, the structural 
series, litbological series, and the building and ornamental stones only 
are iu condition approximating completion. Others, now under way, 
though in a less advanced stage, are the three series classed under the 
head of dynamical, structural, and historical geology. A portion of the 
materials belonging to these series are already on exhibition, being of 
themselves sufiicieutly striking in appearance to excite interest, though 
not occui)ying their proper jilaces in the systematic collection. 

Tbe investigations of tbe curator, Mr. G. P. Merrill, have been directed 

chiefly toward tbe mineralogy of tbe District of Columbia, the origin and 

nature of fulgurites, the durability of building stones, besides studies on 

local petrograpy which are not yet ready for publication. Tbe curator 

H. Mis. 170 4 



50 EEPOET OF THE SECRETARY. 

has also prepared a catalogue of tbe building stone collection uow in tbe 
Museum, which will be published in the Museum report for the coming 
year. He has also in preparation a general work on economic petrog- 
raphy for the use of students, quarry men, architects, and builders. 
The curator calls especial attention to the desirability of allowing the 
head of the department annually a certain sum of money to be ex- 
pended in filling ga^js in the exhibition series. 

The total number of rock specimens in the collection is given as 
20,647, 17,647 of which belong to the reserve series. Of the latter 
number, 5,313 are on exhibition, 2,730 of which are building and orna- 
mental stones, and 1,829 belong to the educational series and rock- 
forming minerals. 

XVIII. Department of Metallurgy and Economic Geology. — The atten- 
tion of Prof. F. P. Dewey, curator of this department, has been devoted 
to classifying and arranging the mass of unassorted material which has 
been referred to in previous reports, especially the material received 
from the Institute of Mining Engineers, part of which was received 
during the year. It has not been the policy of the department to solicit 
accessions, owing to the fact that there is so much material already on 
hand which, owing to the lack of space, it has been impossible to bring 
under control. During the year work upon the preparation of the ex- 
hibition series has gone steadily forward, and as soon as the exhibition 
cases shall have been provided a large amount of material can be dis- 
played. A preliminary display has been made of a portion of this collec- 
tion, especially the systematic collection, the beginnings of which were 
exhibited at I^ew Orleans. This material exhibited at New Orleans 
was intended to illustrate (1) the geological distribution of the ores of 
the United States and (2) the processes used in the extraction of the 
metals from the ores. A descriptive catalogue of the systematic col- 
lections has been jjrepared by the curator for publication in the Mu- 
seum report during the coming year as a guide for visitors and as a 
foundation for future collections. 

The curator has for three years been engaged upon the investigation 
of the physical properties of coke, and has already published a paper 
upon the porosity and specific gravity of different kinds of coke. In 
the prosecution of this work the department is aided by Maj. Jed. 
Hotchkiss, who has provided necessary apparatus. In connection with 
this work especial attention has been paid to the devolopment of the 
Museum collection of the ookes of the world, which is already of con- 
sidrable extent and constantly increasing. 

The curator called attention to the especial need of the Museum for 
special systematic collections gathered with reference to showing, first 
the nature and the methods of occurrence of the various ores in diifor- 
ent portions of the United States ; second, the methods of mining, and 
third, the methods and processes of smelting. In connection with 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 51 

those collcctioiis of a scieiitidc and tecbuological character, it is desira- 
ble to illustrate iu the JMuseum the condition of miners and their modes 
of life. This has already been done for the anthracite coal miners of 
rennsylvania,and the screens of photographs, instruments, and clothing 
already on exhibition are of great interest. We hope that similar collec- 
tions may be obtained in connection with other kinds of miners. 

The total number of specimens in the collection is estimated at 48,000, 
of which 17,000 are on exhibition. During the year 5,500 entries, in- 
cluding 8,552 specimens, have been made. 

BUEEAU OF ETHNOLOGY. 

The prosecution of ethnologic researches among the North American 
Indians, under the Smithsonian Institution and in compliance with law 
was continued during the fiscal year 1885-86 under the charge of Mnj. 
J. W. Powell, who, as Director of the Bureau of Ethnology, has fur- 
nished the following account of its operations: 

The account of the work for the six months ending June 30, 1885, as 
published iu the report of the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution 
for that period, being meager, for'the reasons therein stated, some por- 
tions of the operations in the latter i^art of the year lSS4-'85 arc now 
included to preserve continuity. 

The report may be conveniently divided into the two general heads 
of Field Work and Office Work, the latter to a large extent being the 
supplement to, and discussion of, the former, and executed by the same 
jflicers who had previously obtained materials and information in the 
aeld. 

I. FIELD -WOKK. 

This heading may be divided into : first, Mound Explorations ; second, 
Explorations in Ancient and Modern Stone Villages ; and, third. General 
Field Studies, embracing those in institutions, linguistics, and other 
:livisions of anthropology. 

Moiind Explorations. — The work of the mound exploring division, 
under the charge of Prof. Cyrus Thomas, was carried on during the 
5rear with the same success reported for former years. 

Messrs. James D. Middleton, John P. Eogan, and John W. Emmert 
were engaged during the year as regular assistants; Mr. Charles M. 
Smith, Eev. S. D. Peet, and Mr. H.L. Eeynoldswere also employed for 
short periods as temporary assistants. 

At the commencement of the year Messrs. Middleton and Emmert 
svere at work on the mounds and ancient monuments of Southwestern 
Wisconsin, where they remained until cold weather set in, when they 
^vere transferred to East Tenuessee, where Mr. Emmert continued at 
^ovK throughout the remainder of the vear. 



52 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

It was deemed advisable to commence the preparation of a complete 
report of the work of tlie division, with a view of having it ready for 
l)ublication by the close of the fiscal year ending June 30, 1887. IMr. 
Middleton was called to the office, where he remained, preparing maps 
and plats and cataloguing the collections, until the latter part of April, 
188G, when he again entered upon field work in the southern part of 
Illinois. 

Mr. Rogan was in charge of the offioe from the 1st of July to the 
middle of August, Professor Thomas being in the field during that time. 
He was engaged the remainder of the year in exploring the mounds of 
Northern Georgia and East Tennessee. 

liev. S. D. Peet was employed for a few months preparing a prelim- 
inary map showing the localities of the antiquities of Wisconsin and 
the areas formerly occupied by the different Indian tribes which are 
known to have inhabited that region. In addition he prepared for use 
in the report notes on the distribution and character of the mound and 
other ancient works of Wisconsin. 

Mr. Smith was engaged during the month of June in exploring mounds 
in Southwestern Pennsylvania ; and Mr. Eeynolds during the same time 
in tracing and exploring the monuments of Western New York. The 
amount of field work done was substantially the same as in previous 
years. About 3,500 specimens were obtained, all of which, collected 
before June 30, 188G, have been numbered, catalogued, and turned over 
to the National Museum. 

Explorations in Ancient and Modern Btone Villageti. — During the sum- 
mer the Director, accompanied by Mr. James Stevenson, revisited por- 
tions of Arizona and New Mexico in which mauy structures are found 
which have greatly interested travelers and anthropologists, and about 
which various theories have grown. The results of the investigation 
have been so much more distinct and comprehensive than any before 
obtained that they require mention. 

On the plain to the west of the Colorado River and north of the San 
Francisco Mountain there are mauy scattered ruins, usually having one, 
two, or three rooms each, all of which are built of basaltic cinders and 
blocks. Through the plain a valley runs to the north, and then east to 
the Little Colorado. Down the midst of the valley there is a wash, 
through which, in seasons of great rainfall, a stream courses. Along 
this stream there are extensive ruins built of sandstone and limestone. 
At one place a village site was discovered, in which several hundred peo- 
ple once found shelter. To the north of this and about 25 miles from the 
summit of San Francisco Peak, there is a volcanic cone of cinder and 
basalt. This small cone had been used as the site of a village, a pueblo 
having been built around the crater. The materials of construction were 
derived from a great sandstone quarry near b^', and the pit from which 
they were taken was mauy feet in depth and extended over 2 or 3 acr^s 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 5o 

of <;rouud. The coue rises on the west iu a precipitous clitl" iVoin the 
valley of an iuterinitteut creek. The pueblo was built ou that side 
at the summit of the clifl", and extending on the north and south sides 
along the summit of steep slopes, was inclosed on the east, so that 
the plaza was entered by a covered way. The court, or plaza, was about 
one third of an acre iu area. The little pueblo contained perhaps sixty 
or seventy rooms. Southward of San Francisco Mountain many other 
ruins were found. 

East of the San Francisco Peak, at a distance of about 12 miles, an- 
other cinder cone was found. Here the cinders are soft and friable, and 
the coue is a prettily shaped dome. On the southern slope there are exca- 
vations into the indurated and coherent cinder mass, constituting cham- 
bers, often 10 or 12 feet in diameter and G to 10 feet in height. The 
chambers are of irregular shape, and occasionally a larger central cham- 
ber forms a kind of vestibule to several smaller ones gathered about it. 
The smaller chambers are sometimes at the same altitude as the central 
or i)rincipal one, and sometimes at a lower altitude. About one hundred 
and fifty of these chambers have been excavated. Most of them are now 
partly filled by the caving iu of the walls and ceilings, but some of them 
are yet in a good state of preservation. In these chambers, and about 
them on the summit and sides of the cinder cone, man}" stone implements 
were found, especially metates. Some bone implements also were dis- 
covered. At the very summit of the little cone there is a plaza, inclosed 
by a rude wall made of volcanic cinders, the floor of which was care- 
fully levelled. The plaza is about 45 by 75 feet iu area. Here the 
people lived in underground honses — chambers hewn from the friable 
volcanic cinders. Before them, to the south, west, and north stretched 
beautiful valleys, beyond which volcanic cones are seen rising amid pine 
forests. The people probably cultivated patches of ground in the low 
valleys. 

About IS miles still farther to the east of San Francisco Mountain 
another ruined village was discovered, built about the crater of a vol- 
canic cone. This volcanic peak is of much greater magnitude. The 
crater opens to the eastward. On the south many stone dwellings have 
been built of the basaltic and cinder-like rocks. Between the ridge on 
the south and another ou the northwest there is a low saddle in which 
other buildings have been erected, and in which a great plaza was 
found, much like the one previously described. But the most interest- 
ing part of this village was on the cliff which rose on the northwest side 
of the crater. In this cliff are many natural caves, and the caves 
themselves were utilized as dwellings by inclosing them iu front with 
walls made of volcanic rocks and cinders. These cliff dwellings are 
placed tier above tier, in a very irregular way. In many cases natural 
caves were thus utilized; iu other cases cavate chambers were made; 
that is, chambers have been excavated in the friable cinders. On the 
very summit of the ridge stone buildings were erected, so that tliis vil- 



54 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

lage was iu part a cliif village, iu part cavate, and in part the ordiuary 
stoue pueblo. The valley below, especially to the southward, was prob- 
abl}' occupied by their gardens. In the chambers among the overhang- 
ing cliffs a great many interesting relics were found of stone, bone, and 
wood, and many potsherds. 

About 8 miles southeast of Flagstaff, a little town on the southern 
slope of Sau Francisco Mountain, Oak Creek enters a cailon, which 
runs to the eastward and then southward for a distance of about 10 
miles. The gorge is a precipitous box canon for the greater part of this 
distance. It is cut through carboniferous rocks — sandstones and lime- 
stones — which are here nearly horizontal. The softer sandstones rap- 
idly disintegrate, and the harder sandstones and limestones remain. 
Thus broad shelves are formed on the sides of the cliffs, and these 
shelves, or the deep recesses between them were utilized, so that here is 
a village of cliff dwellings. There are several hundred rooms alto- 
gether. The rooms are of sandstone, pretty carefully worked and laid 
in mortar, and the interior of the rooms was plastered. The ox)ening 
for the chimney was usually by the side of the entrance, and the ceil- 
iugs of the rooms are still blackened with soot and smoke. Around 
this village, on the terrace of the caiion, great numbers of potsherds, 
stone implements, and imi^lements of bone, horn, and wood were found; 
and here, as in all of the other ruins mentioned, corncobs in great 
abundance were discovered. 

In addition to the four principal ruins thus described many others are 
found — most of them being of the ordinary inieblo type. From the 
evidence presented it would seem that they had all been occupied at a 
comparatively late date. They were certainly not abandoned more than 
three or four centuries ago. 

Later in the, season the Director visited the Supai Indians of Cata- 
ract Caiion, and was informed by them that their present home had 
been taken up not many generations ago, and that their ancestors 
occupied the ruins which have been described ; and they gave such a 
circumstantial account of the occupation and of their expulsion by the 
Spaniards, that no doubt can be entertained of the truth of their tradi- 
tions in this respect. The Indians of Cataract Canon doubtless lived 
on the north, east, and south of San Francisco Mountain at the time 
this country was discovered by the Spaniards, and they subsequently 
left their cliff aud cavate dwellings, and moved into Cataract Caiion, 
where they now live. It is thus seen that these cliff' aud cavate dwellings 
are not of an ancient, prehistoric time, but that they were occupied by 
a people still existing, who also built pueblos of the common type. 

Later in the season the party visited the cavate ruins near Santa Clara, 
previously explored by jVIr. Stevenson. Here, on the western side of 
the Eio Grande del Norte, were found a system of volcanic peaks, con- 
stituting what is known as the Valley Eange. To the east of these 
jieaks, stretching far beyond the present channel of the Rio Grande, 



REPOET OF THE SECRETARY. 55 

there was once a great Tertiary lake, wliicli was gradually filled witli 
the sauds washed into it on every hand and by the ashes blown out of 
the adjacent volcanoes. Tbis great lake formation is in some places a 
thousand feet in thickness. When the lake was filled, the Rio Grande 
cut its channel through the midst to a depth of many hundreds of feet. 
The volcanic mountains to the westward send to the Eio Grande a 
number of minor streams, which in a general way are parallel with one 
another. The Eio Grande itself and all of these lateral streams have 
cut deep gorges and caSons, so that there are long, irregular table Lnids, 
or mesas, extending from the Eio Grande back to the Valley Mountains, 
each mesa being severed from the adjacent one hy a canon oi- canon 
valley; and each of these long mesas rises with a precipitous cliff from 
the valley below. The cliffs themselves are built of volcanic sands and 
ashes, and many of the strata are exceedingly light and friable. The 
specific gravity of some of these rocks is so low that they will float on 
water. Into the faces of these cliffs, in the friable and easily- worked 
rock, many chambers have been excavated; for mile after mile the clitfs 
are studded with them, so that altogether there are many thousnmls. 
Sometimes a chamber or series of chambers is entered from a terrace, 
but usually they were excavated many feet above any landing or ter 
races below, so that they could be reached only by ladders. In other 
places artificial terraces were built by constructing retaining-walls and 
filling the interior next to the cliff with loose rock and sand. Very often 
steps were cut into the face of a cliff and a rude stairway formed by 
which chambers could be reached. The chambers were very irregularly 
arranged and very irregular in size and structure. In raauj^ cases there 
is a central chamber Avhich seems to have been a general living-room 
for the people, and back of which two, three, or more chambers somewhat 
smaller are found. The chambers occupied by one family are some- 
times connected with those occupied by another family, so that two or 
three or four sets of chambers have interior communication. 

Usually, however, the communication from one system of chambers to 
another was by the outside. Many of the chambers had evidently been 
occupied as dwellings. They still contained fire-places and evidences 
of fire ; there were little caverns or shelves in which various vessels 
were placed, and many evidences of the handicraft of the people were 
left in stone, bone, horn, and wood, and in the chambers and about the 
sides of the cliffs potsherds are abundant. On more careful survey it 
was found that many chambers had been used as stables for asses, 
goats, and sheep. Sometimes they had been filled a few inches, or even 
two or three feet with the excrement of these animals. Ears of corn 
and corncobs were also found in many places. Some of the chambers 
were evidently constructed to be used as storehouses or caches for grain. 
Altogether it is very evident that the cliff houses have been used in 
comparatively modern times, at any rate since the peoi)le owned asses, 
goats, and sheep. The rock is of such a friable nature that it will not 



56 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

Stand atmospheric degradation very long, and there is abundant evi- 
dence of this cliaracter testifying to the recent occupancy of these 
cavate dwellings. Above the clifls, on the mesas which have already 
been described, evidences of more ancient ruins were found. These 
were pueblos built of cut stone rudely dressed. Every mesa had at 
least one ancient pueblo upon it, evidently far more ancient than the 
cavate dwellings found in the face of the cliffs. It is then very plain 
that the cavate dwellings are not of great age; that they have been 
occupied since the advent of the white man, and that on the summit of 
the cliffs there are ruins of more ancient pueblos. Now, the pottery of 
Santa Clara had been previously studied by Mr. Stevenson, who made 
a large collection there two or three years ago, and it was at once no- 
ticed that the potsherds of these cliff dwellings are, both in shape and 
material, like those now made by the Santa Clara Indians. The pecu- 
liar pottery of Santa Clara is readily distinguished, as may be seen by 
examining the collection now in the iSTational Museum. While encamped 
in the valley below, the party met a Santa Clara Indian, and engaged 
him in conversation. From him the history of the cliff dwellings was 
soon discovered. His statement was that originally his people lived in 
six pueblos, built of cut stone, upon the summit of the mesas ; that 
there came a time when they were at war with the Apaches and Nava- 
ios, when they abandoned their stone pueblos above, and for greater 
protection excavated the chambers in the cliffs below ; that when this 
war ended, part of them returned to the pueblos above, which were re- 
built; that there afterward came another war, with the Comanche In- 
dians, and they once more resorted to cliff" dwellings. At the close of this 
war they built a pueblo in the valley of the Eio Grande, but at the time 
of the invasion of the Spaniards their people refused to be baptized, 
and a Spanish army was sent against them, when they abandoned the 
valley below and once more inhabited the cliff dwellings above. Here 
they lived many years, until at last a wise and good priest brought 
them i)eace, and persuaded them to build the pueblo which they now 
occupy — the village of Santa Clara. The ruin of the pueblo, which 
they occupied i^revious to the invasion of the Spaniards, is still to be 
seen, about a mile distant from the present pueblo. 

The history thus briefly given was repeated by the governor, and by 
other persons, all substantially to the same effect. It is therefore 
evident that the cavate dwellings of the Santa Clara region belong to 
a people still extant ; that they are not of great antiquity, and do not, 
give evidence of a x)rehistoric and now extinct race. 

Plans and measurements were made of some of the villages with 
sufficient accuracy to prepare models. Photographic views and sketches 
were also procured, with which to illustrate a detailed report of the 
subject, to be published by the Bureau. 

After the investigations made in company with the Director, Mr. 
Stevenson proceeded with a pnrty to the Province of Tusayan, in Ari- 



EEPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 57 

zona, to study the cttnologic characteristics of its inbabitants, aud to 
make collections of such implements and utensils as would illustrate 
their arts aud industries. Several months were spent among the vil- 
lages, resulting in a large collection of rare objects, all of which were 
selected with special reference to their anthropologic importance. This 
collection contains many articles novel in character, and for different 
uses from any heretofore obtained, all of which will form an important 
addition to the collections in the IsTatioual Museum. 

A study of their religious ceremonials aud mythologic beliefs was 
made, of which full notes were taken. Sketches Avere made of their 
masks aud other objects which could not be obtained for the collection. 

Mrs. Stevenson was also enabled to secure a minute description of the 
celebrated dance, or medicine ceremony, of the Navajos, called the Yei- 
bit-cai. Mrs. Stevenson made complete sketches of the sand altars, 
masks, and other objects employed in this ceremonial. 

Mr. Yictor Mindeleff, who has in past jears been engaged in investi- 
gating the architecture of the pueblos, aud the ruius of the Southwest, 
commenced work shortly before the beginning of the fiscal year. A 
short visit was paid to the Moki villages, securing drawings of some 
constructional details, and also traditions bearing on the ruins in that 
vicinity. The main camj) was established near Mashongnavi, one of 
the Moki villages. A large ruined pueblo, formerly occupied by the 
Mashongnavis, was here surveyed. No standing walls are found at the 
present time, and many portions of the plan are entirely obliterated. 
Typical fragments of pottpry were collected. 

Following this work, four other ruined pueblos were surveyed, and 
such portions of them as clearly indicated dividing walls were drawn 
on the ground-plans. 

Many of the ruius in this vicinity, according to the traditions of the 
Mokis, have been occupied in comparatively recent times — a number 
of them having been abandoned since the Spanish conquest of the 
country. In several cases the villages now occupied are not the same 
as those first visited by the Spaniards, although probably retaining the 
same names. 

While the work of surveying was in progress, in charge of Mr. Cos- 
mos Mindeleff, Mr. Victor Mindeleff made a visit of several days at 
Ream's Caiion, there to meet a number of the Navajo Indians to ex- 
plain the purpose of the work and allay the suspicions of these Indians, 
a necessary precaution, as some of the proposed work was laid out in 
Caiion de Chelly, in the heart of their reservation. Eeceut restrictions 
to which they had been subjected, as a consequence of new surveys of 
the reservation line, had made them especially distrustful of parties of 
Americans equipped with instruments for surveying. Incidental to such 
explanations of the purpose of the work, an opportunity was afforded of 
securing a number of mythologic notes, and also some interesting data 
regarding the construction of their " hogans," with the rules prescrib- 



TjS report of the secretary. 

iug the arrangement of each part of the frame, &c. A number of cere 
monial songs are sung at the building of these houses, but of these 
only one could be secured, this one, however, both in the original and 
translated. Whenever opportunity occurred, during the progress of 
the work, photographs and diagrams of construction of " hogans " were 
secured. 

On August 17, the ceremony of the snake-dance took place at Ma- 
shonguavi, similar in every detail to that performed at Wolpi, and dif- 
fering only in the number of participants. A number of instantaneous 
negatives of the various phases of the dance were secured. On August 
18, the following day, the same ceremony was performed at Wolpi, 
the easternmost of the Moki villages, on a larger scale. 

While the surveys of the ruins were in progress manj- detailed stud- 
ies of special featurey were made in the modern villages, particularly 
among the " kivas," or religious chambers. In several instances the 
large roofing timbers of the " kiva" were found to be the old beams from 
the Spanish churches, hewn square, and decorated with the character- 
istic rude carving of the old Spanish work. A number of legends, con- 
nected with the ruined pueblos, were recorded. 

On closing this work in the vicinity of the Moki villages, late in Au- 
gust, the party moved into Keam's Canon, en route for Canon de Chelly; 
A day was devoted to the survey of a small pueblo of irregular ellipti- 
cal outline, situated about 18 miles northeast from Keam's Caiiou. This 
ruin is in an excellent state of preservation and exhibits in the ma- 
sonry some stones of remarkably large size. The early part of Septem- 
ber was employed in making a close survey'of the Mummy Cave group 
of ruins in CaSon de la Muerte, this work including a 5-foot contour 
map of the ground and the rocky ledge over which the houses were dis- 
tributed. Detailed drawings of a number of special features were hero 
made, particularly in connection with the circular ceremonial chambers. 
The latter were so buried under the accumulated debris of fallen walls 
that much excavation was required to lay bare the details of internal 
arrangement. A high class of workmanship is here exhibited, both in 
the execution of the constructional features and in the interior decora- 
tion of these chambers. Later the White House group in the Canon 
de Chelly, comprising a village and cliff houses, was examined and 
platted in the same manner. 

The drawings and plans were supplemented with a series of photo- 
graphs. Some negatives of i!^avajo houses were also made. 

On closing this work the party went into Fort Defiance, en route for 
Zuni, and thence to Ojo Caliente, a modern farming i)ueblo of the 
Zufiis, about 12 miles south of the principal village. Here two ruins of 
villages, thought to belong to the ancient Cibola group, were platted. 
One of these villages had been provided with a circular reservoir of 
large size, partially walled in with masonry. Here, also, can be seen 
the well-preserved walls of a stone church. The other also contains 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 59 

the remains of a large cburch, built of adobe. A series of widely scat- 
tered house clusters, occurring about 2J miles west of Ojo Oalieute, was 
also examined, but the earth had drifted over the fallen wa/ls and so 
covered them over that the arrangement of rooms could scarcely be 
traced at all. 

The modern village of Ojo Oaliente was also surveyed and diagrams 
and photographs made. 

Towards the end of September camp was moved to the vicinity of 
Zuiii. Here we examined four other villages of the Cibola group and 
the old villages on the mesa of Ta-ai-ya-lo-ne. Camp was then moved 
to Nutria, a farming pueblo of Zuni. From this camp Nutria was sur- 
veyed and i)hotographed, and also the village of Pescado ; the latter 
is occui)ied only during the farming season. Both of these modern 
farming pueblos appear to be built on the ruins of more ancient villages, 
the remains of which were esj^ecially noticeable in the case of Pescado, 
where the very carefully executed masonry, characteristic of the ancient 
methods of construction, could be seen outcropping at many points- 
Mr. Cosmos Mindeleff was ordered to report at the Moki towns, Ari- 
zona, for field duty, and left AVashiugton July G. He was placed in 
charge of the surveying work necessary in the Stone Village region, 
and his work is included in the general report of that division. 

He assisted in collecting from the present inhabitants of the region 
legendary information bearing upon the ruins and in observing the 
snake-dance of the Moki Indians, a description of which was ])reparcd 
for i)ublication. 

Following the return of the main party to Washington some prelim- 
inary exi^loration was carried on by Mr. E. W. Nelson, who made an 
examination of the headwaters of the South Fork of Salt Eiver, but did 
not find anj'^ ruins. Thence the Blue Ridge was crossed and the valley 
of the Blue Fork of the San Francisco Eiver visited. Here ruins were 
plentiful, increasing in number towards the south. Farther south three 
sets of cliff ruins were also located. 

General field studies. — Dr. Washington Matthews, assistant surgeon 
U. S. Army, was stationed in the Navajo country as post surgeon of 
Fort Wingate, N. Mex., from 1880 to 1884, during which time he de- 
voted himself to studying the language, customs, &c., of this tribe as 
much as his official duties would permit. 

In the autumn of 1881 he was given an opportunity, under the aus- 
pices of the Bureau of Ethnology, to return to the Navajo country and 
devote himself for a considerable time entirely to the anthropologic 
study of the people. 

He first visited the Navajoes who dwell in the neighborhood of the 
San Mateo Mountains, the Tsotsildine, or people of the Great Peak, a 
local division or subtribe, living much farther to the east and having 
longer and more intimate associations with Mexicans and Americans 
than the main body of the nation. While at this place he ascended 



60 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

the peak of Sau Mateo, or Mount Taj'lor — a mountain held sacred hj 
the Navajos — to observe the various places on the mountain mentioned 
in the Navajo myths. 

Leaving San Mateo he proceeded to Fort Wingate, and, learning 
that one of the most important of the !Navajo rites was about to be 
celebrated at a place called Nihotlize (Hard Earth), north of Fort 
Wingate, on the Navajo Eeservation, he repaired thither without delay. 
The ceremony was that of Dsilyidje qatal, or "chant upon the mount- 
ains." It is called Ilnasjingo qatal, or "chant in the dark circle of 
branches," from the great corral of evergreens, in which the public rites 
of the last night are performed. It is kuown to the white men who 
live among these Indians as the Hoshkaun dance, from one of the 
public dances of the last night in which the Indian jugglers pretenei to 
grow and develop the hackan or Yucca haccata. This last night's per- 
formance is varied and interesting, and all persons, iucludiug whites 
and Indians of other tribes, are permitted to witness it; but previously, 
for several days, in the medicine lodge, mystic rites are celebrated, to 
the most of which only the initiated are admitted. Dr. Matthews re- 
mained in the Indian camp at Nihotlize ten days, during which time 
the shamans admitted him into their medicine lodge and allowed him 
to observe their rites and practices. 

His most interesting discovery on this occasion was of their S3'stem 
of mythic dry-paintings, by which they represent with dry pigments, 
on the sanded floor of the medicine lodge, various legends or traditions. 
These j)ictures are from 10 to 12 feet in diameter, and are drawn with 
(scrupulous care after long-established patterns, which are retained only 
in the memories of the initiated. The drawing of some of the more elab- 
orate pictures occupies the time of about a dozen men for eight or more 
hours. Half an hour after the work is completed it is, with song and 
ceremonial, entirely obliterated, and even the sand which formed the 
ground work of the picture is removed from the lodge and thrown away. 
Only one picture is painted in a d-Ay. Dr. Matthews made accurate col- 
ored copies of these pictures, which will be represented by chromo-litho- 
graphic i)lates to illustrate a detailed report prepared by him for jiubli- 
cation by the Bureau. 

When the ceremony at Nihotlizi was over he proceeded to a locality 
in Arizona called by the whites " The Haystacks," from the peculiar 
ai)pearance of the rock formations there. At the Haystacks another 
great ceremonj', probably the second in importance of the Navajo rites, 
was to take place. Here he again encamped with the Indians, and 
remained until the work of the shamans was done. The ceremonial 
observances witnessed on this occasion are, collectively, called by the 
Navojos Kledje quatal, or " chant of the night." They are called by the 
whites the " Yay bichy dance," from the name of the principal masked 
character Yeibitcai or (iebitcai, the grand uncle of the gods. Like the 



REFORT OF THE SECRETARY. 61 

Iloslikaiiii (lauce, it has several days of secreC rites with elaborate 
symbolic sand pictures, aud one uight of public dauces, less varied and 
interesting- than those of the Hoshkaun. Dr. Matthews was permitted 
to witness the whole performance and to take as many notes and sketches 
as were necessary. 

From the Haystacks Dr. Matthews went to the Indian agency at 
Fort Defiance, Ariz., where he secured the services of one of the oldest, 
and most learned (in their own peculiar lore) of the Navajo priests, and 
from him he obtained full explanations of all these rites, and of the sym- 
bolism of the i)ictures and masked characters, with a complete recital 
of the long and elaborate myths on which the ceremonies depend, and 
the text and translations of the very numerous songs which form the 
ritual of the ceremonies. 

During the summer and fall of 1885, Dr. H. G. Yarrow, acting as- 
sistant surgeon U. S. Army, visited interesting points in Arizona and 
Utah. In the vicinity of Springerville, Apache County, Arizona, in 
company with Mr. E. W. Kelson, he visited a number of ancient pueblos 
and discovered that the people formerly occupying- the towns had 
followed the custom of burying their dead just outside the walls of 
their habitations, marking the places of sepulcher with circles of stones. 
The graves were 4 or 5 feet in depth, aud with the dead had been de- 
l^osited various household uteusils. Mr. Nelson, who had made a care- 
ful search for these cemeteries, informed him of the whereabouts of 
hundreds of them. Unfortunately for anthropometric science, most of 
the bones are too much decayed to be of practical value. The places 
of burial selected at these pueblos are similar to the buriul places dis- 
covered in 1874 near the large ruined pueblo of Abiquiu, in the valley 
of the Chama, New Mexico. He also visited the Moki pueblos in x\ri- 
zona, and obtained from one of the principal men a clear aud succinct 
account of their burial customs. While there lie witnessed the famous 
snake-dance, which occurs every two years, and is supposed to have the 
effect of producing rain. From his knowledge of the reptilian fauna of 
the country he was able to identify the species of serpents used in the 
dance, and from personal examination satisfied himself that the fangs 
had not been extracted from the poisonous varieties. He thinks, how- 
ever, that the reptiles during the four days that they are kept in the 
estufas are somewhat tamed by handling, and possibly are made to 
eject the greater part of the venom contained in the sacs at the roots 
of the teeth, by being teased and forced to strike at different objects 
held near them. He does not think that a vegetable decoction in which 
they are washed has a stupefying effect, as has been supposed by some. 
He also obtained from a Moki high priest a full accouut of the attend- 
ant ceremonies of the dance. Through the hospitality of Mr. Thomas 
V. Kcam, of Keam's Canon, Arizona, aud Mr. A. M. Stephen, he was 
able to procure from a noted Navajo wise man, an exact account of the 



62 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

burial customs of his peoi^le, as well as valuable iuforuiatiou regarding 
their medical practices, especially sucli as relate to obstetrics. 

From Arizona Dr. Yarrow proceeded to Utah, and made an examina- 
tion of an old rock cemetery near Farmington, finding it similar to the 
one he discovered in 1872 near the town of Fillmore. The bodies had 
been carried far up the side of the mountain ; cavities had been pre- 
pared in a rock slide, and the bodies placed therein. Branches of Cot- 
tonwood were then laid over and large bowlders piled on top. In sev- 
eral of these graves the skeletons were in fair preservation, and were 
removed, as well as the articles found with them. 

Through the kindness of Mr. William Young, of Grantsville, a skele- 
ton of a Gosi-Ute, in excellent preservation, was obtained, which has 
been presented to the Army Medical Museum. It may be stated that 
the examination of the rock cemetery at Farmington showed that the 
inhabitants of the eastern slope of the Wahsatch Eange, in Great Salt 
Lake Valley, followed that mode of sepulture from this, the most north- 
ern point visited, to below Parowan, a distance of at least 200 miles to 
the southward, and it seems that these people occupied the valley long 
subsequent to those living near the water courses who constructed the 
small mounds on top of which were the rude adobe dwellings, and in 
some instances used these huts for burial purposes. 

In the spring of 18SG Mr. James 0. Pilling made a trip to Europe in 
the interest of his work on the Bibliography of the Languages of the 
North American Indians, and spent many days in the library of the 
British Museum, the Bibliotheque Rationale at Paris, and several ex- 
tensive i>rivate libraries in England and France. The results of this 
trip are highly satisfactory and valuable. 

Mr. Jeremiah Curtin continued to collect vocabularies and myths in 
California. The whole number of myths obtained in California and 
Oregon was over three hundred. The number of vocabularies was eight, 
being the Yana, Atsugei (Hat Creek), Wasco, Mil6-hlama (Warm 
Spring), Pai Ute, Shasta, Maidu, and Wintu. Texts were also obtained 
in Yana, Wasco, Warm Spring, and Shasta. 

IT. OFFICE WORK. 

Prof. Cyrus Thomas was engaged during the year, except the few 
weeks he was in the field, in the preparation of his general report, a paper 
on the Maya Codices, and a special paper on the Burial Mounds of the 
Northern Sections of the United- States. The latter will appear in the 
Fifth Annual Eeport of the Bureau. 

Mrs. V. L. Thomas, in addition to her duties as clerk, has been em- 
ployed in preparing a catalogue of the ancient works in that part of the 
United States east of the Eocky Mountains. This catalogue, now 
nearly complete, is intended to give the localities and character of all 



EEPOKT OF THE SECKETARY. 63 

the autiquities in tlie section indicated that have been lieretofore dis- 
covered and notice thereof published, as well as those mentioned in the 
reports of work done under the Bureau. 

The '• Bibliography of the Languages of the North American In- 
dians," by Mr. James 0. Pilling, which has been adverted to iniirevious 
reports, has received a large share of his time and attention through- 
out the year. The advance " proof-sheets " noted under the head of 
publications, and distributed to collaborators, have been the means of 
securing the active co-operation of many persons throughout this and 
other countries who are interested in linguistic and bibliographic sci- 
ence, and have thus elicited a large number of additions, corrections, 
suggestions, and criticisms, all of which have received careful consid- 
3ration. 

Mr. Frank H. Gushing worked, when his health permitted, uj^on the 
large amount of Zuiii material collected by him during several years, in 
preparation of papers upon the language, mythology, and institutions 
)f that people. 

Mrs. Erminnie A. Smith continued her study of the Iroquoian 
languages. The first part of her final contribution on the subject 
tvas intended to be a Tuscarora grammar and dictionary. The first 
portion of the dictionary was completed, and had been forwarded 
;o the Bureau when her sudden and lamented death occurred on 
Tune 9, 188G, at her home in Jersey City. Her former assistant, 
VIr. J. jST. B. Hewitt, of Tuscarora descent, has been engaged to 
complete the work she so successfully began, and it is expected that 
he results of her long labors in the field will be published without 
lelay. 

Mr. Charles C. Eoyce resigned his connection with the Bureau in the 
Mirly part of the year, thereby delaying the completion of his work 
ipon the primal title of the Indian tribes to lands within the United 
States and the methods of securing their relinquishment. This work, 
:he scope and value of which have before been explained, will be pub- 
ished with its accompanying atlas. Mr. Eoyce, before his departure, 
jompleted a paper on the "Cherokee Nation of Indians," which will ap- 
pear in the Fifth Annual Eeport. 

Dr. H. C. Yarrow was still engaged in prej)aring the material for tlie 
inal volume upon the Mortuary Customs of the North American In- 
lians, in the prosecution of which the large amount of information re- 
jeived and obtained from various sources has been carefully classified 
md arranged under proper divisions, so that the manuscript is now 
3eing rai)idly put into shape for publication. 

< Dr. Washington Matthews, U. S. Army, continued the preparing for 
publication of the copious notes obtained by him during former years 
n the Navajo country, his chief work being upon a grammar and dic- 
;ionary of the Navajo language. He also wrote several papers, one of 



G4 REPORT OF THE 8ECRETARY. 

wLiob, 11 "Chant upon the Mountaius," will appear in the Filth Aunual 
Keport. 

Mr. W. n. Holmes coutiniieil his worli in the office (luring- the >ear, 
superintending the illustration of the various publications of the Bureau. 
His scientific studies have been confined principally to the field of Ameri- 
can art archaeology. Two fully illustrated papers have been finished 
and will appear in the Sixth Annual lieport of the Bureau. They are 
upon "Ancient Art of the Province of Chiriqui, Colombia," and "A 
Study of the Textile Art in its Eelatious to the Development of Form 
ami Ornament." Mr. Holmes has, in addition, continued his duties as 
curator of aboriginal pottery in the Natioual Museum. 

The office work of Mr. Victor Mindelefl" for the year has consisted of 
the preparation of reports on the Tusayan and Cibola architectural 
groups. These, when completed, are to be fully illustrated by a series 
of plans and drawings now being prepared from the field-notes and other 
material. In this work it is proposed to discuss the architecture in de- 
tail, i^articularly in the case of the modern pueblos, where many of the 
constructional devices of the old builders still survive. The examina- 
tion of these details will be found to throw light on obscure features of 
many ruined pueblos whose state of preservation is such as to exhibit 
but little detail in themselves. 

In connection with the classification and arrangement of new material 
from Caiion de Chelly, a paper on the clifi-ruius of this region was i^re- 
l)ared. 

The modeling-room during the past year has been in charge of Mr. 
Cosmos Mindeleff. Upon his return from the field a series of models to 
illustrate the Chaco ruins, architecturally the most important in the 
Southwest, was commenced. Two of these, viz, the ruin of Wejegi and 
that of a small pueblo near Pueblo Alto, have been finished and dupli- 
cates have been deposited in the National Museum. The third, a very 
large model of Penasco Blanco, is still uncompleted. All of these 
models are made from, entirely new surveys, made in the summer of 1884. 
The scale used in the previous series — the inhabited pueblos and the 
cliff-ruins — though larger than that usually adopted for this class of 
work, has shown so much more detail and has proven generally so sat- 
isfactory, that it has been continued in the Chaco Ruin group, bringing 
the entire series of models made by the Bureau to a uniform scale of 
1.60, or 1 inch to 5 feet. In addition to this the work of duplicating 
the existing models of the Bureau for purposes of exchange was com- 
menced. Three of these have been completed, and two others are about 
half finished. 

Mr. E. W. Nelson was engaged upon a report of his investigations* 
among the Eskimo tribes of Alaska. A part of this report consisting 
of an English-Eskimo dictionarj' , he has already forwarded. 

As hereinafter explained, the year was principally devoted to the syu- 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 05 

oiiomy of tbe ludiau tribes, the special studies of several officers of the 
Bureau being suspended so that their -whole time should be employed 
in that direction, lu tlie early part of the year 1885, however, and at 
subsequent intervals, their work was as follows : 

Col. Garrick JNIallery. U. S. Army, continued the study, by researches 
and correspondence, of sign language and pictographs. A paper on 
the latter subject has been printed in the Fourth Annual Eeport. 

Mr. Albert S. Gatschet continued to revise and i)erfect his grammar 
and dictionary of the Klamath language, a large part of which work is 
in print. He also took down vocabularies from Indian delegates present 
in this city on tribal business, and thus succeeded in incorporating into 
the collections of the Bureau of Ethnology linguistic material from the 
Alibamu, Hitchiti, Creek, and Seneca languages. 

Eev. J. Owen Dorsey pursued his work on the Dhegiha language. 
Having the aid of a Winnebago Indian for some time he enlarged his 
vocabulary of that language and recorded grammatical notes. He also 
reported upon works submitted to his examination upon the Tuscarora, 
Micmac, and Cherokee languages. 

Synonymy of Indian Tribes. — The Director has before reported in gen- 
eral terms that the most serious source of per])lexity to the student of 
the history of the North American Indians is the confusion existing 
among their tribal names. The causes of this confusion are various. 
The Indian names for themselves have been understood and recorded 
in diverse ways by the earlier authors, and have been variously trans- 
mitted by the later. Nicknames arising from trivial causes, and often 
without apparent cause, have been imposed upon many tribes. Names 
borne by one tribe at some i:)eriod of its history have been transferred 
to another, or to several other distinct tribes. Typographical errors 
and improved spellings on assumed phonetic grounds have swelled the 
number of synonyms until the investigator of a special tribe often finds 
himself in a maze of nomenclatural perplexity. 

It has long been the intention of the Director to have prepared a work 
on tribal names, which so far as possible should refer their confusing 
titles to a correct and systematic standard. Delay has been occasioned 
chiefly by the fundamental necessity of defining the linguistic stocks or 
families into which all tribes must be primarily divided, and to accom- 
plish this long journeys and laborious field and office investigations 
have been required during the whole time since the establishment of 
the Bureau. While a few points still remained in an unsatisfactory 
condition, it was considered that a sufficient degree of accuracy had 
been attained to allow of the publication for the benefit of students of 
" a volume devoted to the subject. The preparation of the plan of such 
a volume was intrusted to Mr. H. W. Henshaw late in the spring of 
1885, and in June of that year the work was energetically begun in ac- 
H. Mis. 170 5 



66 EEPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

cordance with the plans submitted. The preparation of this work, 
■which to a great extent underlies and is the foundation for every field 
of ethnologic investigation among Indians, was considered of such 
prime importance that nearly all the available force of the Bureau was 
placed upon it to the suspension of the particular investigations in 
which the several officers had been engaged. In addition to the gen- 
eral charge of the whole work, Mr. Henshaw gave special attention to 
the families inhabiting the Northwest coast from Oregon northwards, 
including the Eskimo, and also several in California. To Mr. Albert 
S. Gatschet the tribes of the Southeastern United States, together 
with the Pueblo and Yuman tribes, were assigned. 

The Algonkian family in all its branches — by far the most important 
part of the whole, so far as the great bulk of literature relating to it 
is concerned — was intrusted to Col. Garrick Mallery and Mr. James 
Mooney. They also took charge of the Iroquoian family. Mr. J. O. 
Dorsey's intimate acquaintance with the tribes of the Siouan and Cad- 
doan families peculiarly fitted him to cope with that part of the work, 
and he also undertook the Athapascan tribes. Dr. W. J. Hoftman 
worked ujion the Shoshoniau tribes, aided by the Director's personal 
supervision. Mr. Curtin, to whom was assigned the California tribes, 
also gave assistance in other sections. 

Each of the gentlemen named has been able to contribute largely to 
the results by his iiersonal experience and investigations in the field, 
there being numerous regions concerning which published accounts are 
meager and unsatisfactory. The main source of the material to be 
dealt with has, however, been necessarily derived from books. A vast 
amount of the current literature jiertaining to the North American In- 
dians has been examined, amounting to over one thousand volumes, 
with a view to the extraction of the tribal namesand the historical data 
necessary to fix their precise application. 

The work at the present time is well advanced tojvard completion. 
The examination of literature for the collation of synonyms may be 
regarded as practically done. The tables of synonymy and the ac- 
counts of the tribes have been completed for more than one-half the 
number of linguistic families. It is hoped that the volume will be 
ready for the printer by the end of the next fiscal year. 

ArclKTologic Symbols. — The geographic distribution of archaeologic i)he- 
nomena being of great importance, and the statute having jirovided for 
general archseologic research in the United States, it was thought best 
by the Director to prepare a system of archneologic symbols to be used 
in the cartography of the subject. In the preparation of such a scheme 
of symbols those used in Europe were examined, for the jiurpose of 
adopting the same where possible ; but on careful study of the subject 
it was found that the phenomena of the two continents differ so widely 
that no European scheme could be utilized in North America. A new 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 



67 



sclieiiic was thoieforc pit'[tiiro(l, a(la[){:ed to the phciiuiiieiia observed iu 
North Aiueric;), and es[)ecially in the United States, as follows: 

SCIIKME OF CONVENTIONS VOR THE AUCII.EOLOGIC CARTOGUAPllV OF NOKTII AMERICA. 



M. Indian villai;*'. 
-^ Wood lodj,'e. 

J^ Gio!i[> or village of wood lodges. 
■^ Earlh lodge. 
>^^ Group or village of earth lodges. 

H Stone lodge. 

UJ. Group or village of stone lodges. 

El Cliff lodge. 

Group or village of clitf lodges. 

C] Ciivate lodge. 

q Group or village of eavate lodges. 

"Cr Subterranean lodge. 
TTT Group or village of subterranean lodges, 'gf' Reservoir. 



•^ Burial mound. 

■"^ Mound with siugle stone grave. 

■*^ Jlouud v\ith stone graves. 

^-' Grave or siugle burial. 

V-1-' Cemetery. 

Ml/ Stoue grave. 

\cn/ Stone grave cometei-y. 

\x/ Ossuary. 

□ Inclosure. 

C Inelosure with interior mound. 

G Inelosure with exterior mound. 
■^y Excavation. 



^ Igloo lodge. 

^ Group or village of Igloo lodges. 

Bj. Inhabited stoue village (Pueblo). 

@ Assembly lodge of wood. 

@ Assembly lodge of earth. 

@ Assembly lodge of stoue. 

(§) Cliff" assembly lodge. 

(g) Cave assembly lodge. 

@ Subterranean assembly lodge. 

i Tower. 

.A. Mound. 

M^ Group of mounds. 

@ Assembly mound. 

.A. EfSgy mound. 

JA. Group of effigy mounds. 

ja. Domiciliary mound. 



223 Canal. 
_4 Copper mine. 
♦-i Flint mine or quarry. 
^ Soapstoue miue. 
H Mica miue. 
uSl Cave deposit. 
V Cave burial. 
X3. Refuse heap. 
.a. Shell heap. 
Jl Sculpture. 
fft Group of sculptures. 
^ Petroglypt. 
^ Group of pctroglypts. 
^ Cache. 
A Cairn. 
— Trail. 



It is believed that the above scheme requires no general discussion 
I'or its explanation. The ujuemonic system embraced therein is perhaps 
sufficiently obvious. 

As the work ofinvestigation extends southward through Mexico and 
Central America, it may be found necessary to add somewhat to the 
above plan. 



68 



EEPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 



UNITED STATES GEOLOGICAL SUEVEY. 

lu compliance with the custom which has grown' up of including a 
summary of the yearly operations of the Geological Survey in the an- 
nual report of this Institution, a statement furnished by Maj. J. W. 
Powell, the Director of the Survey, is appended hereto. 

The last report which was made was for the calendar year 1884; and 
the present account is for the following eighteen months. 

During each of the years under review, the appropriations for the 
Survey were substantially the same, and tbe organization was practi- 
cally unchanged. 

As heretofore, detailed statements of tbe operations of the Survey 
will be found under the headings of Geography, Geology, Paleontology, 
and Miscellaneous Work, the latter including chemistry and physics, 
mining statistics and tecbnology, and library and documents. 

GEOGRAPHY. 

At the date of the last report a statement was made under the vari- 
ous subdivisions of this heading of the areas which had been surveyed 
in tbe different States and Territories. Including those, and the areas 
subsequently surveyed during tbe fiscal year ending June 30, 1885, the 
chief geographer of the Survey, Mr. Henry Gannett, reports a total of 
57,508 square miles. A glance at tbe appended table will show the 
distribution of these areas, the scale of publication adopted, and tlie 
contour interval: 



Area. 



Massacliiisetts 

New Jersey 

Appalachian region 
Missouri-Kansas . . . . 
Texas 



Scale of pub 
lication. 



Plateau region 

Yellowstone Park . . 
Northern California 

Total 



0-2500 

6250O 

1'25«00 

125000 

125000 

250000 

12.5000 

250000 



Contour 
interval. 



Feet. 

20 

20 

100 

50 

50 

200 

1(10 

200 



Area. 



Sq. m. 

1,250 

1,268 

17,640 

13,600 

4,000 

15,000 

1,(>00 

3, 750 

57, 508 



The average cost of tbe work for the year was about 
mile. 



per square 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY, 



G9 



Similar iuforinatioa respecting the geograpUic work doue in the fol- 
lowing year, ending June 30, 1880, will be found in the subjoined table: 



Mas.sacluisel ts 

New Jersey 

Southern Appalacliiaii region 

Missouri-Kansas 

Texas 

Arizona 

Gold Belt, California 

Northern California and Southern Oregon 

Yellowstone National Park and Northwestern Wy- 
oniinir 



Scale of pub- 
lication. 



Total 



G'2500 

()-,>500 

125000 

125000 

125000 

250000 

125000 

250000 



1 : 125000 



Contour 
interval. 



Area. 



Feet. 
20 
20 
100 

50 

50 

200 

100 

200 

100 



Sq. VI. 

2, 500 

1,84:5 

2:5, {J8G 

21,400 

8,000 

H, 000 

2,400 

10, 400 

3,000 

81,829 



The average cost of the work during the year was approximately 
$2.75 per square mile. 

Under the Division of Geographj^ the work in the northeastern sec- 
tion is divided into two sub- sections, uamely, those of Massachusetts 
and New Jersey. In the former the work is carried on at the joint ex- 
pense of the State of Massachusetts and the United States. In this 
State the entire area reported for the two years during which work has 
been going on, amounts to 3,750 square miles, or nearly one-half the 
area of the State. 

Work in the IsTew Jersey sub-section was, as heretofore, under the 
general supervision of Prof. George H. Cook, State geologist. The 
work has been continued on the basis indicated in the hist report, and 
an area of 3,111 square miles has been comph'tely surveyed in the past 
two years, while a considerable amount of preliminary work has been 
done on other portions of the State. At the present time nearly all 
the area of the State has been completed. 

Aijpalachian Section. — The intricacy of geologic phenomena in this 
region has led to the adoption of a larger scale for the maps than that 
which has been used in other cases; as the country is perhaps the most 
difQcult for the surveyor to be found upon the continent, the rate and 
cost of work will not bear favorable comparison with other less difficult 
areas. However, notwithstanding these drawbacks , the large force con- 
centrated on the area has enabled the geographer in charge of it, Mr. 
Gilbert Thompson, to complete 41,320 square miles in the two years 
under consideration. 

^Yestcrn Section. — During the year ending June 30, 1885, work was 
prosecuted in the Missouri Kansas, Texas, and Arizona sub-sections, 
and in the following year, to this section were added the Gold Belt 
and Cascade sub-sections. It was found that in those States which had 



70 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

beeu surveyed by the public land system, use miglit be made of the plats 
of the General Land Office, whereby without sacrificing accuracy the 
work might be greatly facilitated. For the control and correction of 
the surveys of the General Land Office it was decided tentatively to 
use astronomic locations, and these Mr. E. S. Woodward, formerly of 
the U. S. Lake Survey, was directed to determine. As shown by the 
table already given, an area was surveyed in this sub-section, during 
the two years, of 37,000 square miles. In continuing the work in the 
Missouri-Kansas sub-section during the last fiscal year, closing June 
30, 188G, it was decided to substitute a gridiron system of triangula- 
tion, utilizing as far as jiossible the trans-continental belt of the U. S. 
Coast and Geodetic Survey, in place of astronomic determinations, for 
the correction of accumulated error in the surveys of the General Land 
Office. Satisfactory i)rogress was made in the Texas and Arizona sub- 
sections, but work was impeded in the Gold Belt and Cascade sub- 
sections by unfavorable at mospheric conditions during the latter i^art 
of the last season. Notwithstanding these drawbacks an area of more 
than 50,000 square miles was surveyed during the last fiscal year. 

Yellowstone Section. — During the two years under review topographic 
work was continued in the Yellowstone National Park, and an area of 
1,000 square miles was surveyed in the first year, and 3, GOO in the sec- 
ond, the latter figure including a portion of Northwestern Wyoming. 

Engraving. — The manuscript of seventy-six sheets of the General At- 
las of the United States, now in preparation by the Geological Survey 
has been furnished to the engraver, and of these fifty-seven have been 
engraved, comprising about 125,000 square miles. In the Seventh An- 
nual Eeport of the Director of the Survey to the Secretary of the Inte- 
rior a list is given of the sheets thus far engraved. 

GEOLOGY. 

The present organization of geologic work in the Survey will be ap- 
prehended from an examination of the following condensed account of 
the work of each of the divisions : 

Division of ArcJiean Geology. — Prof. Eaphael Pumpelly devoted his 
time in the field to a study of the structure of the Green Mountains, 
believing that range to contain the key to the geology of New England. 
The structure of a long and important stretch of the Hoosac Mountain 
in Massachusetts and Vermont was worked out, and Professor Pum- 
pelly hopes by the end of another season to be in a position to solve 
this great geologic problem. A large part of his office work was upon 
the "Mining Industries" volume of the Tenth Census. 

Atlantic Coast Division of Geology. — In his study of the geology of 
the Atlantic coast Prof. N. S. Shaler has addressed himself especially 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 71 

to problems whose solutiou promises to have important eeonomic value. 
After making a preliminary inquiry into the geology of the Cobscook 
Bay district, he began a study of the district adjacent to I^Tarragansett 
Bay, the coal-fields of which he compares in character with those of 
Pennsylvania, and hopes to see rendered commercially important. An- 
other inquiry to which he has given attention is the amount of salt- 
water marshes on the eastern coast of the United States, the extent to 
wdiich these arc reclaimed, and the most feasible means of bringing 
them into tillable condition. The experience of other countries ho 
found to be of such a character as to justify the hope that at least 
20,000 square miles, and possibly twice that area, may be easily won to 
agriculture. Professor Shaler publishes a report on the " Salt Marshes 
of the United States " in the Sixth Annual Report of the Director of 
the Survey, and a report on the "Geology of Martha's Vineyard" in 
the seventh. 

Appalachian Division of Geology. — Mr. G. K. Gilbert continued, with 
a corps of assistants, the investigation of the geology of the Appala 
chiau i\[ountaius in the States of Maryland, Virginia, West Virginia, 
Kentucky, Tennessee, North Carolina, Georgia, and Alabama. In the 
systematic conduct of this work he proposes to survey and measure 
with great care four sections, crossing the belt at right angles. The 
rocks to be studied being much disturbed, a simple linear section does 
not aiford a sufficient guarantee of accuracy', and he substitutes for it 
the complete structural survey- of a strip of country 20 miles broad. 
When this is finished it is believed that the structure of the entire belt 
can be unraveled with comparative ease and rapidity. Of Mr. Gilbert's 
assistants, Mr. Bailey Willis was engaged on the French Broad section, 
Mr. I. C. Russell on the Alabama section, Mr. H. R. Geiger on the Po- 
tomac section, and Prof. I. C. White made an investigation of the strati- 
graphy of the coal-measures in the valley of the Great Kanawha. The 
geologic literature of the Aiipalachian district being very copious, and 
Mr. Gilbert being unwilling to pass bj' without acknowledgment the 
work of his ijredecessors, a subject bibliographj' of this literature has 
been undertaken, and 0,000 bibliographic cards have been prepared, 
which contain each a reference to the jmges in a specific volume in which 
any jjarticular subject is treated. The memoirs relative to the investiga- 
tion of the " Quaternary History of the Great Basin" are in substan- 
tially the same condition as last reported. 

Lalie Superior Division of Geology. — In this division Prof. R. D. Ir- 
ving is engaged in a general investigation of those formations of the 
jSTorthwestern States which underlie the basal fossiliferous or Potsdam 
sandstone of the Mississippi Valley. A large portion of the field work 
of Mr. Irving's assistants was spent in replacing the collections which 
they were so unfortunate as to lose by the fire that occurred in the 
science building of the University of Wisconsin in December, 1884. In 



72 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

his administrative report for the year 188G he gives a sutiimarizetl state- 
ment of the results which have been reached by the studies in which 
he and his associates have been engaged. 

Among these the following may be mentioned : (1) Tlie origin of the 
ferruginous schists of the Lake Superior region and their accompany- 
ing iron ores is attributable to the silicification of ferruginous carbon- 
ates in some degree analogous to those of the coal-measures. (2) The 
Archean formations of Lake Superior are divisible into two discordant 
members, to which the terms Huronian and Laurentian should be ap- 
plied. (3) Such chloritic schists as present themselves at the falls of 
the Menomonee River, on the boundary between Wisconsin and Michi- 
gan, are the result of metasomatic alteration, accompanying great press- 
ure, of some sort of eruptive greenstone. (4) The upper mica schists 
of the iron-bearing series have been developed in both the Penokee and 
the Marquette regions from entirely fragmental rocks, composed mainly 
of quartz and feldspar, by a simple, easily traced process of metaso- 
matosis. 

Division of Glacial Geology. — Prof. T. C. Chambei-lin and his assist- 
ants. Prof. R. D. Salisbury, Prof. J. E. Todd, Mr. Warren Upham, Prof. 
G. H. Stone, Prof. G. F. Wright, and Mr. L M. Bueli, were engaged in a 
comprehensive study of the manifold features of glacial geology, par- 
ticularly as recorded in the rocks of the northwestern se'ction of the 
United States. To the discussion of this question. Professor Chamberlin 
has contributed two extended articles, one appearing in the Sixth An- 
nual Report, under the heading of the "Driftless Area of the United 
States," and the other in the seventh, under the title of the "Rock Scor- 
ings of the Great Ice Invasion." His assistant, Mr. Upham, after making 
an extended investigation of the area of the extinct lake (Agassiz), 
submitted the manuscript for a bulletin, which will appear among the 
publications of the Survey hereafter. In company with Prof. Salisbury, 
Prof. Chamberlin undertook a reconnoissance of the drift margin from 
the vicinity of Bismarck, Dak., to the national boundary line at the foot 
of the Rocky Mountains. No attempt was made to trace the drift-border 
in detail, but it was sought to determine a sufficient number of points 
to fix beyond question the general course and character of the drift 
in Northwestern Dakota and in Montana. After about a month spent 
in this examination, Prof. Chamberlin studied the valley-drift of the 
Yellowstone River, at Billings, and in the vicinity of Glendive, with 
a view to distinguishing this semi-local drift from that of the north- 
east^ as well as to determining the ancient fluvial conditions of the re- 
gion. He also spent about a month in the study of drift phenomena 
in Montana, Idaho, and British Columbia. Professor Todd's time was 
devoted to field study in southern Dakota, and the preparation of a 
bulletin on his results. Professor Stone, under the direction of Prof. 
Chamberlin, continued his special investigations of the gravels of 



KEPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 73 

Maine, particularly its remarkable osars, and Prof. G. F. Wright studied 
the glacial border in l'e:ms.ylvania and the terraces of the Upper Alle- 
ghany Kiver. Prof. W. ]\1. Davis, of Harvard University', working under 
Prof. Chaniberlin's direction, made a careful study of the striation of 
Mount Monadnock, one result of which was a very satisfactory demon- 
stration of the incurving of the currents in the lee of that mountain. 
He also made an examination of two recent gorges near Canajoharie, N. 
Y., with reference to the time and method of their production; but his 
chief attention was directed to the study of the remarkable parallel and 
doli)h in-backed drift ridges of Wayne and Cayuga Counties in the same 
State. Mr. Buell continued his study of the bowlder trains of the south 
central Wisconsin. Prof. Chamberlin was assisted both by Mr. Gilbert 
and Prof. Shiiler in a number of his glacial studies, and the latter car- 
ried out an extended scheme of study of the glacial drift on the islands 
of Nantucket, Martha's Vineyard, and Mount Desert. 

Montana Division of Geology. — Dr. P. V. Hayden, with his assistant, 
Dr. A. C. Peale, continued his study of the geology of Montana, his in- 
quiries chierly relating to the Gallatin Valley, particular attention being 
jiaid to the southern end of the Bridger Range and the extension of its 
beds on the soutliern side of the Gallatin Valley. In addition to this 
work Dr. Peale prepared a statistical paper on the Mineral Waters of 
the United States, which was published as P>ulletin No. 32 of the Survey 
series. 

Yellowstone Parle Divifilon of Geology. — Notwithstanding the limited 
character of the held season in the Yellowstone Park, Mr. Arnold Hague 
was able to reach tolerably definite conclusions respecting the more re- 
markable of its geological features. The work in the field was supple- 
mented by detailed studies in the laboratory, Dr. F. A. Gooch confining 
himself almost exclusively to chemical questions connected with the 
thermal waters of the geyser basins and ]\Iammoth Hot Springs, and Dr. 
Hallock continuing his investigations on the physics of geyser action. 
Mr. J. P. Iddings, in investigating the acidic lavas of the park, prepared 
for the Seventh Annual Eeport of the Director a paper entitled " Ob- 
sidian Cliff of Yellowstone Park," which not only gives a description of 
Obsidian Cliff, but presents a resume of all that is known as to the erup- 
tions of obsidian in other parts of the world. Mr. Hague dwells upon 
the need of Congressional action to settle the definite boundaries of the 
Park, and reiterates his previous suggestiousas to the limits which should 
be adopted. He also adverts to the great importance of the Yellow- 
stone Park as a forest reservation, stating that he is acquainted with no 
tract in the Kocky Mountains where the necessity for the conservation 
of the forests appears so urgent or the direct advantage to be gained so 
immediate. 

Colorado Division of Geology. — The field work in this division since 
the date of the last report has been mainly carried on by Mr. Emmons' 



74 EEPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

assistauts, lie himself having been principally engaged in the prepara- 
tion of material for publication. Such field work as w as done under his 
direction was mainly in the Gunnison or Crested Butte region and in the 
Denver Basin region. His assistants, Messrs. Cross and Eldridge. made 
large collections of specimens, and the former, in the course of his work, 
made a nuipber of important contributions to petrography. 

California Division of Geology. — Eesuming his field studies of the ge- 
ology of the quicksilver deposits of the Pacific slope, Mr. G. F. Becker 
brought his investigation to a conclusion, and devoted himself to the 
preparation of a monograph on the results. This monograph is now in 
an advanced state, and will soon be placed in the hands of the printer. 
In his observation of the stratigraphy of California Mr. Becker was led 
to consider a number of the physical and chemical questions involved, 
and his work upon these resulted in the disclosure of certain novel laws 
of mechanics and physics that are believed to have a high value. Tlius, 
in considering the fundamental shape of volcanic cones, Mr. Becker 
found that the form of such cones could be determined mathematically 
with all possible definiteness, and that this form coincides in the most 
remarkable way with iihotographs of actual volcanic cones in America 
and Japan. A contribution to the general law of mechanics which grew 
out of his investigation of quicksilver is called a theorem of maximum 
dissipativity, according to which there is in every system a tendency to 
motions of a shorter period, this tendency being the greatest possible 
when the motions of the system have periods which differ considerably. 

Division of Volcanic Geology. — Captain C. E. Button, with his assistant, 
Mr. J. S. Diller, devoted his field work to a study of the Cascade Range 
and its geological relation to the Coast Eanges. The belt of country be- 
tween the shore of the Pacific and the Cascade Eange he finds to bo 
occupied by mountains which do not group themselves into distinct 
ranges, but which are crowded closely together and present forms alto- 
gether jieculiar by reason of their irregularity, want of definite trend, 
and absence of anything approaching structural axes. The attitudes 
of the older rocks in this region disclose a scene of stratigraphic confu- 
sion, displacement, and distortion without a parallel in his experience. 
The most striking feature of the Cascade Eange is undoubtedly Crater 
Lake, of which Captain Button made a thorough examination. The 
occurrence of several notable earthquake tremors in the Atlantic States 
in the summer and autumn of 1884, and the fact that such disturbances 
are more numerous than is generally supposed, led to some preliminary 
measures under the direction of Captain Button looking to the estab- 
lishment of systematic observations of such phenomena. A consulta- 
tion was held between several members of the Geological Survey corps 
and Prof. C. G. Eockwood, of Princeton, Mr. W. M. Bavis, of Harvard, 
Prof. Cleveland Abbe, of the Signal Service, and Mr. H. M. Paul, of 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 75 

tbo Naval Observatory. It was determined that the only jnacticable 
scheme -would be to rely upon the voluntary and unpaid co operation of 
individual observers and upou the aid which niiglit be gained from 
the assistants of the Signal Service and other Government bureaus 
having permanent stations scattered throughout the country. Mr. C. 
F. Marvin, of the Signal Service, undertook to devise an jnstrument, 
inexpensive and simple, and requiring a niiuimuni of care and atten- 
tion, which could be used by volunteers m making their observations. 
Numerous responses have been received to the circulars that were sent 
out asking for assistance in this work. 

Potomac Division of Geology. — Mr. W J McGee continued his geo- 
logic investigation of the District of Columbia and contiguous territory 
as the condition of the topographic survey of the area under discussion 
permitted. He gave special attention to the Potomac formation, both 
as disclosed in the District of Columbia and elsewhere, and, in the ab- 
sence of fossil faunas characterizing the formation, he availed himself of 
the assistance of Professors Ward and Fontaine in reaching some con- 
clusions as to its taxonomy through a study of its fossil flora. A large 
amount of miscellaneous office work is intrusted to the chief of this di- 
visiou, and the most important subjects of this character which have en- 
gaged his attention during the period under review are briefly referred 
to below. Mr. McGee continued to assist the Director in developing a 
cartographic system, which, while sufficiently comi)rehensive to repre- 
sent the rock masses in the entire dominion of the United States, is at 
the same time sufficiently definite to be intelligible to all users of the 
geologic maps published by the Survey and sufficiently elastic to per- 
mit the employment of classifications of rocks now in vogue or such as 
may be hereafter evolved. The work has led to the preparation of a 
bulletin entitled "A Contribution to the Areal Geology of the United 
States," which is now nearly ready for the press. A meeting of the 
Congres Geologique International was held at Berlin in September and 
October, 1885, and Mr. McGee represented the Director of the Survey in 
its deliberations, presenting to it a formal communication on his behalf. 
The principal function of this Congress, which was organized largely 
through the instrumentality of American geologists, is the improve- 
ment and unification of conventions employed in geologic cartography. 
Under Mr. McGee's direction a bibliography of the geology of Texas 
has been prepared and is nearly ready to send to the press. The Sur- 
vey having undertaken to compile a history of American State surveys, 
from data contributed as far as possible by those who have engaged in 
the work, the material has been placed in Mr. McGee^s hands, and a 
manuscript history of American State surveys is now substantially com- 
plete. To the gentlemen who have generously turned aside from other 
duties and interests and prepared material for this proposed history, 
the profound obligations of the Survey are warmly extended. 



76 EEPORT OF THE SECEETARY. 

Louisiana Division of Geology. — Owing to the importance of the iron 
ores of iN'orthern Louisiana, a division of geology was established, with 
Mr. Lawrence C. Johnson at its head, to investigate the localities in 
this region in which iron ores were known or supposed to be deposited. 
Mr. Johnson has performed a large amount of preliminary work, bnt 
his materia,! is not yet in such a condition as to permit of publication. 

PALEONTOLOGY. 

Division of Vertebrate Paleontology. — In continuing his systematic 
work of collecting fossils in the West, Prof. O. C. Marsh states the 
two objects he has had especially in view, as follows: First, to deter- 
mine the geologic horizon of each locality where large series of verte- 
brate fossils were found, and, second, to secure from these localities 
collections of the more important forms sufficiently extensive to dis- 
close, if possible, the life history of each. With the paucity of remains 
of plants and invertebrates in many regions of the West, the value of 
vertebrate fossils, especially of the higher types, in enabling us to get 
a more accurate and detailed geologic record, is manifest. It is hoped 
that the collections of the remains of the vertebrate life throughout the 
Eocky Mouutian region in past ages, now being made, will aiford the 
means of solving many profound problems, since some of the most im- 
l>ortant chai)ters in the history of life on the globe are recorded here 
alone. 

The success of Professor Marsh and his assistants in their held work 
has been most gratifying, and the more difficult work of classifying the 
extensive collections secured has been systematically and rapidly 
carried on. 

Paleozoic Division of Invertehrate Paleontology. — The field operations 
of Mr. C. D. Walcott, the chief of this division, were directed as follows: 
(1) The continuation of the study of the Devonian strata and contained 
faunas in Southern and Western New York; (2) the study of Cambrian 
strata in Alabama, Georgia, and Tennessee, and the collection of fossils 
from numerous localities; (3) the examination of a number of sections 
of Cambrian strata in Central Nevada and Northern Utah and the col- 
lection of fossils; (4) the taking of a section of the Permian formation 
in Southern Utah and the collecting of fossils from three local ities in 
the section, and (5) the examination of certain Middle Cambrian rocks 
from Columbia County, New York, and the collecting of Lower 
Silurian fossils in Central New York. In these operations he was as- 
sisted by Prof. H. S. Williams, who is preparing a monograph on the 
Devonian faunas, and by Messrs. Cooper Curtice, A. M. Gibson, 
S. W. Ford, W. P. Kust, and others. With the data now in his pos- 
session, Mr. Walcott believes that most of the Paleozoic fossils hereto- 
fore collected in the entire Eocky Mountain region can be referred to 
their true stratigraphic horizons, but farther study will be needed on 



EEPOET OF THE SECRETARY. 77 

the liiimas that preceded the Middle Caiiibiiaii fauna, Dariuj^ the year 
he prepared a paper on the Middle Cambrian faunas of North America, 
which was published as Bulletin 30 of the Survey series. 

Mesozoic .Division of Invertebrate Faleontologi/. — Dr. C. A. White, the 
chief of this division, carried on field operations chieliy in Utah and 
Wyoming. The work he planned for the season was the stratigrai^hic 
and paleontologic study of the later Cretaceous and early Tertiary forma- 
tions. As results of his studies in the field it is shown that a ])ortiou 
of the fresh-water molluscau species which characterize the Laramie 
group survived their brackish-water contemporaries and became a part 
of the purely fresh-water molluscau faunas of the Wasatch group. 
This indicates that there was a contiiunty of congenial aqueous habitat 
for those mollusks from the Laramie to the Wasatch epoch, and the 
observed character of the strata also indicates that sedimentation was 
continuous from the one group to the other. The observations upon 
the Jurassic strata and their fossil contents which he was able to make 
during the past season, together with those previously made, seem to 
justify the opinion that a large continental area existed upon the site 
of the i)resent North American continent during the latter part of the 
Jurassic period. An important feature of Dr. White's office work during 
the past fiscal year was the transfer of all the fossils belonging to the 
Survey and in charge of his division to the newly allotted space in the 
northeast balcony in the second story of the National Museum building 
where all the specimens were cleansed, numbered, and stored away in 
cases for convenient reference. 

Ccnozoic Division of Invertebrate Paleontology. — On being placed in 
charge of this division Mr. W. H. Dall's first eftbrts were directed to 
l)utting into shape for ready reference and the identification of species 
as they should come in, the Quaternary fossils of North America that 
have come into the possession of the Geological Survey. The land and 
fresh-water forms of the ancient lake basins of the West and the loess 
of the Mississippi Valley, and the marine forms from the southern and 
southeastern portions of the United States bordering on the sea, being 
by far the most impoitant, the classification of these was first under- 
taken. It is gratifying to be able to state that the large collections of 
Quaternary fossils and allied recent forms have been suitably classified 
and conveniently arranged for study. In the year ending June 30, 
188G, 18,G38 lots of specimens, including not less than 60,000 individ- 
uals, have been Libeled, registered, and put in order, about one-half as 
much as during the whole of the previous twenty -five years since the 
beginning of the work. A small amount of field work was done in 
South Carolina and in Louisiana and Texas. 

Division of Paleobotany. — In the year following that for which a re- 
port was last made. Prof. L. F. Ward devoted himself almost exclu- 



78 REPORT OP^ THE SECRETARY. 

sively to office work. As a result of this Le i)ie})are(l for the Sixth 
Annual Eeport of the Director a paper entitled " Synopsis of the Flora 
of the Laramie Group," profusely illustrated. Early in the ])resent 
fiscal year Prof. Ward prosecuted field work along the bluffs of the 
Potomac and Eappahannock Rivers. He also made an expedition down 
the James to City Point and up the Appomattox to Petersburg. In 
these trips he was accompanied at different times b}' Prof. W. M. Fou- 
taiue, 31r. W J McGee, and Mr. F. H. Knowlton. In the office he 
l^repared technical descriptions of the species figured for publication, 
without description, in the Sixth Annual Eeport of the Director, and 
drew them u]} in the form of a bulletin of the Survey, entitled " Tyi^es 
of the Laramie Flora," and numbered 37 of that series. Prof. Ward 
is making satisfactory progress in the extensive bibliographic work he 
has undertaken in connection with his subject. Prof. Leo Lesquereux 
has undertaken the preparation of a volume of descriptions and illus- 
trations of Cretaceous and Tertiary plants. 

Prof. Fontaine devoted the period which has elapsed since the date 
of the last report to the continuation of the study of the younger Meso- 
zoic, or Potomac, formation, both in field and office. He discusses the 
plant material which has beeu collected from both a geological and 
botanical point of view, since the plants fill a most important gap in 
geologic records. Both the geologic and paleontologic reports will soon 
be ready for the i)rinter. 

Division of Fossil Insects. — At the beginning of the present calendar 
year Prof. Samuel H. Scudder, the greatest living authority on the sub- 
ject of fossil insects, was appointed to a position on the Survey, and 
placed in charge of n division designated " The Division of Fossil In- 
sects." He has devoted his time thus far (1) to the collection of insects 
from the peat deposits of Nantucket; (2) to a determination of insects 
from the interglacial clays of our northern border; and (3) to a system- 
atic study of the Carahidm of the Oligocene beds of the Florissant. 
Mr. Scudder also prepared for publication as a bulletin of the Survey 
a review of oar present knowledge of fossil insects. 

MISCELLANEOUS. 

Division of Chemistry and Physics. — In this division Prof. F. W. Clarke 
reports slight changes in the force and equipment for the present 
year; but a few additions have been made in each direction. A lai-ge 
portion of the work done by Prof. Clarke and his assistants, Messrs. 
Chatard, Hillebrand, Gooch, Whitfield, and Eiggs, in the chemical lab- 
oratory, was of a routine nature, and. grew out of applications for the 
determination of rocks, minerals, and waters submitted by the various 
heads of geological divisions or by the other branches of the Govern- 
ment. But some attention has beeu given to original research. In the 
latter work, the chemical division has profitably co-operated with Mr. 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 79 

J. S. JUillor, of the division of volcauic geology. From an investigation 
of the waters of the Yellowstone National Park, made by Messrs. Gooch 
and Whitfield, it is learned that all the hot waters of that region con- 
tain arsenic in qnite appreciable quantities. Mr. Gooch having been 
elected professor of chemistry in Yale College, has severed his connec- 
tion with the Survey. 

In the physical laboratory Messrs. William Hallock and Carl Barus, 
the latter assisted by Prof. Strouhal, of Prague, have continued i)hys- 
ical investigations. Dr. Barus studied the internal structure of steel, 
and he and Dr. Hallock jointly investigated the constancy of tempera- 
ture attainable in metallic vapor baths and constructed apparatus for 
the convenient calibration of thermoelectric pyrometers. 

Division of Mining Statistics and Technology. — Since the last report 
was made another volume on the mineral resources of the United States 
has appeared under the direction of Mr. Albert Williams, jr., chief of 
this division. Somewhat fuller than its predecessor, it has been in much 
greater demand. While these volumes record with great care the pro- 
duction of minerals in the United States for each year, the accompany- 
ing text relating to the various industries is different in character from 
volume to volume. 

Mr. Williams having resigned, Dr. D. T. Day, of the Johns Hopkins 
University, has been placed in charge of this work. 

Division of Forestry. — Since the date of the last report a division of 
forestry has been established in the Geological Survey, and Mr. George 
W. Shutt placed in charge thereof. Field investigations have been 
made of the forestry of Virginia, North Carolina, and Kentucky, and a 
large amount of material that has been received from volunteer observ- 
ers in response to inquiries is in course of preparation for publication 
by the Survey. 

Division of Illustrations. — Mr. W. H, Holmes, in charge of the divis- 
ion of illustrations, presents a detailed report of the work which has been 
done under his direction. In his administrative report for the year end- 
ing June 30, 1885, he discusses the various methods employed for the 
production of illustrations, and the most judicious ways of applying them. 
During the two years covered by his administrative reports illustrations 
have been transmitted through him for three monographs, two annual 
reports, and eighteen bulletins. 

Division of the Library and Documents. — From the reports of Mr. C. 
C. Darwin, chief of this division, it is learned that there has been a 
steady and very considerable growth in the library, and that satisfac- 
tory progress has been made in the work of cataloguing. The facilities 
for exchange have been increased, and the rapid growth of the library 
is due almost entirely to this feature. Although no attempt is made to 



80 EEPORT OF THE SECEETARY. 

stimulate sales of Survey publications, yet as they become better kuowu 
the desire for them becomes more general, and the sales during the pres- 
ent fiscal year have amounted to double those of the i)revious year. 



U. S. FISH COMMISSION. 

As already explained, the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution 
exercises the functions of chief officer of the U. S. Fish Commission, 
for which, of course, he receives no salary. It has therefore been his 
duty to report, year by year, what the Commission has been doing, and, 
in its interest to the public service, to justify the action taken upon the 
subject. 

The history of the Commission, since its organization in 1871, has 
shown a gradual expansion of scope and increase in magnitude, in jiro- 
portion to the increasing appropriations made by Congress. The ap- 
propriation for the first year was $5,000, while for the year just closed 
it amounts to nearly $250,000. The work, as heretofore, has been di- 
vided mainly into two sections: one, the investigation of the statistics 
and natural history of the fishes and other products of the water 
and their relationships to each other, including the various methods of 
capture and utilization, form of apparatus required, &c, ; the other, 
the increase in the supply of food fishes, &c., either by artificial prop- 
agation or by transportation. The addition, within recent years, of 
several vessels to the means of investigation on the i)art of the Com- 
mission has been of great service, especially through the work of the 
steamer Albatross. More recently, Congress has authorized the con- 
struction of a small schooner of special device, to be used particularly 
in securing the ripe parent sea fish at distant points and bringing them 
to stations on the coast, especially to Wood's Holl, Mass. This vessel, 
although completed at the end of the fiscal year, is not yet in commis- 
sion. An account of her work will therefore be deferred until the next 
report. 

Referring to the detailed accoicut of operations in the Ileport of the 
U. S. Fish Commission, it may be briefly stated that the usual researches 
have been prosecuted during the year, resulting in the acquisition of a 
large amount of imi)ortant information, which will be duly reported 
upon at the appropriate time. Comi)lete statistics of the fisheries of 
the coast have been gathered for the service of the Government in the 
international question arising between the United States and Canada ; 
and these have already been called for by the Congressional committees 
of investigation. 

As on several previous occasions, the services of the steamer Alba- 
tross were secured by the Navy Department for the purpose of con- 
tinuing hydrographic research in the Caribbean and West Indian seas, 
and during the past year the vessel was assigned to labor off the Ba- 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 81 

liaman Islands, where she was engaged for several months in making 
soundings, dredgiugs, temperature observations, &c. 

The '' tish-culture" work of the Commission has also been carried on 
on a very extensive scale, thcv different stations having all been engaged 
in the work to the measure of their capacity, and many hundreds of 
millions of eggs have been taken, hatched out, and distributed to va- 
rious points, among them being whiteiish, salmon, laud-locked salmon, 
California trout, brook trout, lake trout, grayling, shad, fresh-water her- 
ring, codfish, Spanish mackerel, lobsters, &c. 

The princii)al station of the Commission — that at Wood's Holl, Mass. — 
has been adapted especially for the hatching of sea tisii, chietly of the 
cod and of the lobster; and while considerable work has been done 
there during the past winter, preparations have been under way through. 
the summer lor the })urpose of renewing the work on a wholesale scale 
the coming winter. 

The completion of tlie schooner Granqms now allows its use in bring- 
ing spawning fish from the distant banks, and it is hoped that the in- 
terruption last winter in the supply of parent lish will not again occur. 

An additional function of the Wood's Holl Station is that of furnish- 
ing the means of biological investigation and research to specialists, 
many of whom availed themselves of the advantages afforded them 
durijig the past fiscal year. 

Another subject that has largely occupied the attention of the Com- 
mission of late years is the artificial production of the oyster, and ex- 
periments already made have shown that the general principles of fish, 
culture may be applied to this animal to great advantage. W^ork in 
this direction is now in i)rogress at the sea-coast station at Saint Je- 
rome's, Md., near the mouth of the Potomac liiver, as well as at Wood's 
Holl, and with quite satisfactory results. 

liespectfullv submitled. 

SrENCEE F. BAIRD, 
Secretary /Smithsonian Institution. 

Washington, December 1, 188G. 

H. Mis. 170 G 



APPENDIX TO THE SECRETARY'S REPORT. 



KEPOiiT ON SMITflSONlAN EXCIIANUES FOli THE FISCAL 
YEAU ENDING JUNE 30, 188(;. 

liy CJEoiieJE II. BoEiiMEit. 

When, towards the close ol" the year LSS!), you iatriisted the chari;e 
L)t' the exchaiii^e .service to niy kecMhig, no very dehnite system had been 
established, though the records kept may have been sutiicient for the 
sxtent of the business at that time. 

As the work expanded I ventured to make some suggestions whereby 
the service might be established on more business principles, involving 
the organization of the Kecord, Foreign, D.>mestic, and Government 
Exchange Divisions. 

At present the oftice force is worked to its full capacity, and an in 
:3rease m the work would require a corresponding increase in the force. 

The Record Division. — One of the improvements introduced in 1881 
was a system of card catalogues as ledger accounts, which has been 
found very useful. We have at i)rescnt 4,513 cards, ro[)resenting the 
iccountskcpt with societies ; and 3,340 cards, re[>resenting the accounts 
with individuals. 

These cards, arranged in geographical series (and under each coun- 
try al[)habetically), are numbered as in the "List of foreign corre- 
s[)ondents." They represent a double-entry ledger, showing to the left 
the books and packages received for the party represented, together 
with the date of rece[)tion, transmission, and acknowledgment of re- 
[;eii)t by the recipient, and to the right the nature and character of any 
sending received from that party. The number of tlie page on which 
each entry is recorded on the day-book and the number corresponding 
to each item on the incoming or invoice book complete the record. 

The manner of i)roceeding in posting the cards was fully described 
in the report for ISS"), as also the duties of the (two) assistants eni- 

63 



84 



REPORT ON EXCHANGES. 



I)loye(l in this division. The work performed by them during the pres- 
ent year is shown in the following statement : 



Description. 



Foreign cards in nse: 

Societies 

Individuals . 



Domestic cards in use: 

Societies - -- 

Individuals 



Foreign entries made 

Domestic entries made 

Invoices written 

Letters recorded 

Acknowledgments recorded 



Number. 



3, 6(54 
2, 523 



849 

817 



Total. 



6, 187 



1, 666 



7, 8.53 
52, 324 
28, 546 
14, 217 

1,049 
10,930 



Foreign Excliaiuje Divismi. —The operations of this division during 
the year exceed those of any previous year, the receipts being 1)4,093 
packages, with a weight of 195,404 pounds. These wore shipped in 
7G4 cases, representiug a bulk of 5,208 cubic feet. A detailed state- 
ment will be given in the general statistics, but a condensed table of 
the receipts and transmissions in this division may not be without in- 
terest : 





1881. 


1882. 


1883. 


1S84. 


First six 
months 

1885. 


1885-'86. 


Receipts : 

Number of packages .. 

Weigbt in pounds 

Transmissions : 


37, 051 
107, 946 

407 

2,800 

100, 750 


58, 047 
143, 374 

422 

2, 950 
105, 500 


63, 894 
155, 650 

495 

3,288 

122,265 


65, 170 
153, 814 

684 

4, 550 

172, 197 


43. 600 
97, 032 

345 
2, 355 

85, 603 


94, 093 
195, 404 

764 


Bulk in cubic feet 

Weight in pounds 


5, 208 
189, 580 



The above table shows almost a doubling of the receipts and trans- 
missions since the beginning of the present decade. 

The work of this division is performed by two clerks and one packer. 
Two temporary clerks have been employed so as not to interrupt the 
regular transmissions during the sending off of the annual reports for 
1883, but their services were discontinued upon accomplishment of the 
work for which they were detailed. 

Domestic Exchange Division. — In this division, too, an increase of 
about 20 per cent, over the work of the past two years is noticeable, the 



EEPOUr ON EXCHANGES. 



85 



number of parcels received and distributed during the year comparing 
with previous years as follows : 



Total immbcr of parccLs. . 8, 438 



1881. 



1882. 



1883. 



1884. 



First vsix 
months 

1885. 



8,3r)9 11,000 10,237 5,138 n4,49G 



1885-'86. 



*This includes 2,533 parcels addressed by mail to the library of the lustitution. 

Government Exchange Division. — This division is not fully establislied 
yet, all the active work, the receiving and shipping, being performed by 
the assistants of the Foreign Exchange Division. Only one clerk is 
employed in recording the books delivered by the Public Piiuter; and 
when not occupied with this work in assisting tlie foreign exchange 
division by addressing labels or envelopes. 

Twenty-nine boxes and 56,229 packages have been received and 114 
boxes shipped in this division. 

]My own services during the year, in addition to the general super- 
vision of the above work, have consisted in the writing of about 1,200 
letters or memoranda for letters, including some extensive reports for 
the nse of the Joint Library Committee of Congress; the preparation of 
a new list of foreign correspondents of about 4,000 titles; of a list of 
existing astronomical observatories, American and foreign; of a paper 
on JS^orske Naval Architecture for the Proceedings of the National 
Museum and the translation of a paper on Observations of Volcanic 
Eruptions and Earthquakes in Iceland, accompanied by a complete 
bibliography on the subject for the Smithsonian annual report for 1885. 

RECEIPTS. 
1. For foreign <listrihuf!o7i. 



Wheuce received. 



(a) From Government Departments : 

Agricultural Department 

Bureau of Ethnology 

Bureau of Education 

Bureau of Statistics 

Comptroller of the Currency .- 
Department of the Interior... 

Department of State 

Engineer's Bureau, U. S. Army 

Nautical Almanac 

Ordnance Office, U. S. Army.. 

Surgeon-Geueral's Otfice 

Treasury Department 

U. S. Coast, Survey 

U. S. Court of Claims 

U. S. Fish Commission 



1885-'8G. 



Packages. 


W 


eight. 


Nuinhe)'. 


Pounds. 


277 




(585 


4da 




3, 289 


IIG 




233 


1 




2 


700 




895 


1)12 




(), 550 


7 




42 


K) 




274 


371 
() 




504 

GO 

92G 


10 




33 


') 




56 

8 


094 




4, 282 



86 



REPORT ON EXCHANGES. 

1. For foreign distribution— QoxiiimxQ,^. 



Wbencc received. 



{a) From Governinetit Departments — Continued. 

U. S. Geolojxic^iil Survey 

U.S. National Mnsenm 

U. S. Naval Qbservatory 

U. S. J'atent Offiee ....\ 

ir. S. Signal Oriice 

War Department 

{})) From Smillisoniau Institution : 

(c) From aeientific soeieties: 

Academy ot Natural Sciences, riiiladelplii.T, 

American Academy of Arts and Sciences, Boston 

American Association for the Advancement of Science, 

Sah'm, Mass ' 

American Geograpliical Society, New York 

American Journal of Science, New Haven 

American Oriental Society, New Haven 

American riiilosopliical Society, Pliiladelpliia 

Antlu-opolo.i;ical Soci(^ty, Wasliin<:^ton, D. C 

Austria-Hungary legation, Wasliington, J). C 

ISoslon Society of Natural History, Boston 

liuflalo Society of Natural History, JJullalo 

J)ure;iu of Agriculture, 1* rankfort, Ky 

California Academy of Science, San Francisco 

Cincinnati Observatory, Cincinnati, Ohio 

Cincinnati Socicdy of Natural History, Ciueiunati 

Commissioners, District of Columbia 

Commonwealth of Massachusetts 

Connect icut Ac^ademy of Sciences, New Haven 

Connecticut State Board of Health, New Haven 

Elliott Society of Science and Arts, Chai-leston, S. C ... 

Executive department, State of Maine 

Executive ofiice. State* of Iowa 

lOxecutivo o(ii<;e, Stalo of Florida 

Executive olhee, Cheyenne, Wyo 

Franklin Institution, l'hila(lel))hia, Pa 

Geological Survey of New Jersey, Nev,- Brunswick 

(ieorgetowu Coll(>ge, I). C 

Harvard Cf)lle_ge, Cambridge, Mass 

Histori(^al Society of I'enusylvauia, I'hiladelplna 

Illinois Slate Histoiieal Society, Springfield 

Iowa \V(!atli(M' Bui-ean, Iowa City. ...' 

Johns Hopicins University, Baltimoni 

Maryland Historical Society 

Michigan State Board of Agriculture, Lansing 

Minnesota Academy of Natural Sciences, Miinieapolis... 

Minnesota Geological Survey, Minneapolis 

Missouri State J5oard of Agriculture, Columbia 

Museum of Comparative Zoology, Cambridge 

National Academy of Sciences, Washington, D. C 

New England Medical Monthly, Sandy Hook, Conn 

New York Academy of ISIediciue, New York City 

New York Academy of Sciences, New York City 

New York State Eibr.ai'y, AUiaiiy 

New York State ]\!useiim of Natural Histtny, All)any ... 

Peabody Academy, Salem, Mass , 

Peabody Institute, Baltimore, JMd 

Peuusylvaniii Board of Agriculture, Harrisburg 



1885 


-'86. 


Packages. 


Weight. 


Numher. 


Pounds. 


r., Ifil 


23, 285 


124 


4,015 


1,108 


1,917 


2;"):^ 


C, 845 


] , :?7<) 


7, 81(J 


20 


94 


11,724 


(U,811 


0, 205 


24, 059 


:nH 


549 


t)l(5 


1-,685 


17:^ 


714 


1 


2(i 


isr, 


67 


1 


C) 


o:]0 


1 , 092 


209 


208 


19 


5 


299 


G19 


92 


28 


I 


2 


408 


500 


98 


46 


:{ 


2 


1 


12 


2 


H 


13 


58 


1 


4 


72 


13 


8 


22 


7 


14 


■^ 


5 


2 


2 


10 


12 


84 


25(; 


I 


10 


5 


49 


72 


63 


:? 


35 


a 


538 


;58 


502 


1 


4 


m 


195 


G2 


22 


45 


411 


2 


2 


54 


106 


1,08:5 


1 , 464 


1 


1 


t 


30 


444 


C()8 


1 


12 


1.53 


1,295 


79 


325 


6 


33 


1 


1 



REPORT ON EXCHANGES. 
1. For foreign distribut'Hm—{jO\\tm\\(i(\. 



87 



Whcnco received. 



(c) From scientific societies— roiitiiuied. 

I'iiilosopliicnl Society, Washington, D. V 

Second (ieolo^ical Snrvt^v of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia 

Trenton NatnVal History Society, Trenton, N. J 

\'iininia Historical Society - 

■Waslihnrn Ohservalory, Madison, Wis 

Miscellaneous societies 

{(I) From individnals 

Grand total 



1885-'8G. 



Packages. Weight 



Numhcr. 
4 

r.H 

'ill 

1 

70:! 



7, 282 



Pounds. 

11 

10,8:17 

21 

110 

79s 

71 

2;}, ri72 



'.)r>i 



^5, init 



20, ic. 



112,1)01 



2. From foreign establishments for domestic distribution. 



Froni- 



188.5-'8G. 



Boxes. Pack aires. 



Xumhcf 



Africa.. . 
Peli;inni 
]5ra/Jl... 



Canada 



('hina 

JDenniariv 

France 

(ierinany 

Creat Britain ami Inl; 

(4reece 

Icidand 

India 

Italv 

•Tapan 

Java ..-- 



14 



11 

40 
(i4 



Mail* 

Mexico 

Netherlands . . . 
New South Wal 

Norway 

Nova Scotia .. . 
Peru 



Russia 

Sandwich Islands 
San Salvador 



South Anstr; 
Spain 



Sweden 

Switzerla.nd 
Tasmania .. 

V^ictoria 

West Indies 



Total 



lUO 



Numher. 
20 

(;.s.'> 

c.r, 

lis 

• -A 

10(5 

517 

2, S4 1 

1,07 1 

4 

11 

7 

(;i2 

127 

I4:i 
:!, 10.-. 
:?44 
:i:i;^ 
li:^ 

114 

ll) 

:',.'■.:! 

:r. 

21 



Weieht. 



li:{ 
2,:".i(; 

4 



Poiouh. 

H 
2,8:^2 

2(;2 

1,040 

:?24 

2,1)70 

8, li'iO 

11,420 

H 

4 

2 221 

5^ 423 

70 

1,274 

:?4r> 

1,2:37 

jr.2 

:'77 

1 

4 
744 

2 
3:5 
70 

11,S10 
1,49(1 

27 

8 

0.1 



14,0:r, 1 42,579 



For the Smithsonian Institution, hotli foreign and domestic. 



88 



REPORT ON EXCHANGES. 
3. For Government exchanges. 



For what and wlieuce received. 



(a) For Library of Congress from — 

Austria-Hiuioary 

France 

Germany 

Great Britain 

Norway 

Sweden 

Victoria 

Miscellaneons* 

(h) For foreign governments from — 

Public Printer 



1885-'86. 



Boxes. 



Kumier 

2 

1 

2 

19 

:i 
1 
1 



Total 



Packages. 



Numher. 

9 

73 

2 

93 

3 

60 

1 

2, 533 



Weight. 



Pounds. 

205 

180 

4(;2 

4,355 

800 

1(50 

37 

3,000 



53,455 33,725 



29 



56,229 I 42,924 



To be deducted from No. 2 table. 

RECAPITULATION. 



For what and whence received. 



1. For foreign distribution from — 

(a) Goveriwnent Departments 

(?;) Smithsonian Institution 

(c) Scientific societies 

(d) Individuals 

2. From foreign establishments for distribu 

tion 

3. For Government exchanges 

Total 



1884-'85. 



1885-'86. 



Packages . 



Niiinhcr. 
9, 381 
4, 821 
5, 592 

888 



20, 682 

8,591 
50, 229 



Weiitht. Packages. Weight 



Pounds. 

70, 340 

17, 578 

19,117 

3,405 



110,440 

36, 526 
38, 514 



79,502 185,480 



dumber. 

11, 724 

6,205 

7, 282 
951 



Pou7ids. 

61,811 

24, 059 

23, 572 

3,459 



26,162 ; 112,901 



11,702 
56,229 



39, 579 
42, 924 



94,093 195,404 



DISTRIBUTION. 



Tlie 762 lK)xes sent dnring the fiscal year ending- June 30, 1S86, were 

distributed as follows : 







_j_^ 


fl 








a 










« . 










a 00 


s « 






Country. 


£ ^ 


S M 


















>^ 


.■t^-a 


c3 






o 


a 


O 






O 


cc 


H 


Africa : 










Alsriers 






2 
2 


o 


Cape Colony 




9 


Egypt . . 




1 


1 


Liberi.i . 




1 
1 


1 


Mauritius 




1 



REPORT ON EXCHANGES. 



89 



County. 



rj 'A 



Aniorioa, : 

]5i-itish America 



Ml 



Icxico 

Central America: 

Costa Rica 

Guatemala 

Nicaragua 

West Indies : 

Cuba 

Guadeloupe 

Hayti 

Nassau 

Porto Rico 

South America: 

Argentine Confederation 

Brazil ■ 

Chili :■ 

Coloml.ia, United States ot 

Uruguay —-- - 

Venezuela 

Asia: 

China 

India 

Jniian 

Philippine Islands 

Britisli j^nrmah 

Australasia: 

New South Wales 

New Zealand 

Queensland • • 

South Australia 

Tasmania 

Victoria .; 

Europe: 

Austria-Hungary 

Bavaria' 

Belgium ■ 

I )oumark 

France 

Germany 

Great Britain ■=• 

Greece 

Italy 

Netherlands 

Norway 

Portugal 

Prussia * 

Russia 

Sa.xony * 

Spain^ 

Swe<len 

Switzerliuul - 

Turkey 

' Wiirtemberg'* 

Polynesia: 

Sandwich Islands 



Craiid total 



J, o 



11 



92 
11(5 
119 

2 

44 
17 

« 
6 



20 

17 

1 



14 
9 
7 
4 
1 
4 

4 

1() 



8' 
12 
4 
4 
4 
G 

34 

•3 

28 

10 

95 

119 

122 

5 

47 

20 

11 

10 

3 

31 

3 

9 

23 

20 

4 

3 



uc. 



1 ' 1 
(US 7(".4 



* The Smithsonian 



exelun.ges are included in th.^ IKJ cases tor Germany. 



90 



RKPORT ON EXCHANGES. 

UKCAPITULATIOX. 



Country. 


Goverumeut 
j boxes. 


a 
a 

'a ^: 

O <v 

£ y 
S 

CO 

7 

52 

30 

20 

538 

1 


IS 


Afri(!a 


7 


America 


30 
(5 

18 
G2 


R'> 


Asia 


30 


Australasia 


38 


Europe 


GOO 


I'olyncsia 


1 








Total 


110 


048 


704 







Table sliowinj;- nninber of pack.agos distributed to domestic societies 
and individuals during- the year ended June 31), 1886 : 



States and Territories. 


Establish- 
ments. 


Individ- 
uals. 


Total. 


Alabauia 


8 
4 

137 
5 

232 


1 

34" 

1 

1.53 

1 

570 

28' 

9 

10 
3 
7 
2 
5 

19 

242 

8 

5 

23" 

2 
2 

30 

4 

210 

1 
28 

'""ie2" 
33 

7 


9 


Arkansas 


4 


Calit'oi'uiai 


171 


Colorado 


() 


Connecticut 


385 


Dakota - .,. 


I 


Delaware 


4 

8, 751 

2 

10 

123 

30 

113 

10 

11 

23 

20 

115 

978 

(■)S 

47 

4 

190 

1 

4 

19 
59 


4 


District of Columbia: 

Library of Conj^Tess . . , 2 774 




Smitlisouiau Institution 4, (;41 

Odier ('sf ablislinicnts 1, 33(i 


9,321 
2 


Florida . . .. 


Georo'ia 


10 


Illinois 


151 


Indiana 


45 


Iowa 


129 




19 


Kentucky 


18 


Louisiana 

Mai n(>. 


25 
25 


Maryland 


134 


Massacbusetts 


1,220 


Micbioaii . 


76 


Minnesota 

Mississipui :. 


52 
4 


■.,. i' 

Missouri .. 


213 


Montana . 


1 


Nebrask.a 





New IIa.mi)sbire 


21 


New.Tersev.- . 


89 


New Mexico . . - 


* 4 


New Yo7-k 


788 

5 

105 

4 

()03 

47 

19 


998 


Nortb Carolina 





Ohio 


193 


Ore<j;on 


4 




825 


Rhode Island 


80 




26 



REPOIJT ON EXCHANGES. 



91 



Stat(5 ;in(l TerrHoiic.s. 



Teiinossco -. . 

Tcxiis 

Iltali 

Vc!':ii()iit . . . 

\'iri;iui;i, 

\V;i,sliin;H't<>u Tcrrilory 

\\'(\st, Virginia 

Wisconsin 



EstaLlisli- 
uionts. 



11 



li) 

2S 
1 

122 



12, 8G'.) 



Individ- 
uals. 



10 



i,(;2: 



Total. 

If) 

8 

H2 

I 

2 

12H 
14,4'.Mi 



The follo\viii,n- fable shows ilio whole number of slii{)iiieiits for (brci^'ii 
excliaiiires from 1850 to 18S(i: 



Year. 


No. of 
boxes. 


Bulk in 

cubic 

feet. 


Wriold 
pounds. 

a, 900 

7, 920 
9, SS.'-, 
12, 200 
9, 791 
10.4S1 
IS, 271 
14,24S 
22,(i74 
29, 4S() 
20,029 
ir., 958 

28, s:;(5 
io,2s{; 

20, 500 

18, mo 

18,0.50 

22, 52:5 

\n, 171 

23, 37() 


Year. 


No. of 
boxes. 


Bulk in 
cubic; 

ft'Ot. 

1,189 
772 
9.54 

1,470 

9:'.:; 

l,.5ii:; 
2,201 
:;. 270 
2, 100 
2, 177 
1,970 

2,8(l(^ 

2,950 

:> 288 

4^.550 
2 :55.5 

5'208 


Wcijild-iii 
pounds. 


1 sr>o 

isni 


10 

40 

4(; 

4S 

:',s 

70 
40 
.Mi 
S2 
C.l 
7o 
114 
CI 

(;:; 

7 7 

SI! 

li:; 

Kit 
112 


200 
240 

2(i:5 

;><)o 

•.?(;.') 

i'.sr. 
as4 

(i72 
1,054 

7(57 

(;2r, 

1,000 
447 

r,4(; 

.V.7 

r.7i 

97;-. 
1,057 
1,03:? 


1 

1870 

1871 


121 

108 
179 
19(i 
149 

208 

:'.2:! 

40(i 
:!09 

:'.ll 

208 
407 
422 
495 

csj 

:545 
704 


31,38:? 

28, 950 


1 S.'>2 


1872 


20,850 


IS;-.:', 

1 s.-)4 


1 187:; 


4 I '>'!() 


i 1874 .. . 


27 990 


IR'..'') 


1875 


45 :ioo 


1 s.-,(i 

1 s.')7 


]87() 

1877 


80,7.50 
1 17,000 


is.-,s 


1878 


(;9, 220 


is.-.i) 

1S(>0 


! 1879 

1880 


09.975 

00, :?oo 


isci 


1881 . 


100 750 


ISCri 


1882 


1(»5,.500 


is(;:5 

IrtC.l 


188:5 

1884 


122,205 
172, 197 


isd.r', 

]si]{\ 

lS(w 

isc.s 

ISC') 


1885 ((; niontlis). 

lS85-'8(;* 

Total 


85, oo:5 

ISO, .580 


7, 049 


51,920 


1 , 7:U), 058 



*Iu 1885 the fiscal year wa,s adopted for the operations of the Smitlisoni.an Institu- 
tion ; heuc(>. in the aliove and in the following' tablets an account is givcMi of the trans- 
actions during the (irst six luonths of 1885, and followed hy those of the entire liscal 
year ended June 30. 1886. 



92 



REPORT ON EXCHANGES. 



The following chronological table shows the whole number of books 
and parcels receiveil by the Institution for its own Ubrary (by exchange) 
and for domestic distribution : 



Year. 



1846-1850 

1851 

1852 

1853 

1854 

1855 

1850 

1857 

1858 

I8r)9 

18G0 

18(!1 

18(52 

1H()8 

1864 

1865 



Received fur the Siuitbsoniau library. 



Volumes. 



1866 
1867 

1868 
1869 
1870 
1871 

],S72 
1873 
1874 
1«75 
1876 
1877 
1878 
1879 
1880 
1881 
1882 
1883 



1884 

1885 (six months) .. 
1885-'86 (fiscal year) 

Total 



470 

549 

1,4H1 

1,440 

<!2(; 
1 , o:;7 

l,3.-)6 
555 
723 

1 , 022 

1,271 
>'-21 

1,611 
910 

.-2;> 

767 
1,243 
1 , 557 
1,770 
1,234 
1,113 

936 
1.262 

8a9 

H63 
1,120 
1,017 
1 , 8f^9 
1,263 
1,949 
1, 143 
1 , 8()7 
1 , 29() 
1,754 
1, 567 

910 
1,938 



44, 342 



Parts 
and pam- 
phlets. 



024 

618 
2, 106 

991 
1,468 
1 , 707 
1,834 
1,067 
1,695 
2, 540 
4, l.sO 

1 , 945 
3, 369 
3, 479 

2, 754 
3, 256 
4,. 509 
3, 946 

3, 605 
4,089 
3, ^90 
3, 579 
4,502 
4,354 
4,521 
5,813 
(J, 193 
(i,511 
7.392 
8,071 
7, 275 
9, 904 

10,341 
10,702 
11,149 
9,077 
13, 949 



177,00;'; 



Maps 
and eu- 
ECravinjjs. 



1,749 
125 
434 

26 
140 
138 
122 

40 
220 
120 

55 
200 
109 
183 
121 
328 
134 
232 
179 

82 
198 
4.54 
162 
114 
375 
326 

74 
183 
152 
188 
152 
219 
143 
354 
379 

8,214 



Total. 



1,098 
1,167 
5, 336 
2, 556 
2. 826 
2, 770 
3, 330 
1,760 
2, 540 

3, 602 
5,071 
2,886 
5, 035 
4, 589 
3, 686 
4,206 
5, 873 
5, 831 
5, 509 
5, 555 
5, 182 

4, 597 
5, 962 
5, 697 

5, 546 
7,047 
7, 585 
8, 726 
8, 729 

10,203 
8, .570 
11,9.59 
11,789 
12, 675 
12, 859 
10,341 
16, 266 



Addresses, 



229, 561 



For institntious aud 
individuals in the 
United States and 
British America. 



96 
160 
149 
219 
1H9 
193 
243 
293 
335 
274 
273 
273 
299 
345 
329 
347 
436 
501 
567 
573 
587 
6-^9 
750 
010 
644 
766 
062 
785 
945 
1,054 
947 
894 
770 
1,208 
1,666 



18, 771 



Packages. 



037 
1,052 

987 
1,445 
1,245 
1,273 
1,539 
1,933 
1,908 
1,406 
2,111 
1,.522 
2, 482 
2, 3()8 

2, 703 
971 

2, 394 
4, 130 

3, 705 
3, 952 
4,635 
4.782 

4, 326 
4,661 
4, 853 
4.962 
5, 292 
6, 971 
5, 587 
8, 433 
8, 359 

11,000 

10, 236 

5, 119 

14, 496 



143, 975 



AGENCIES. 



Transportation companies. — The rajnd extension of the Smithsonian 
exchanges soon became a heavy tax upon the resources of the Institu- 
tion, and the coiiduct of its principal function (''the increase of knoAV- 
ledge among men " by the promotion of original research and discovery) 
was threatened with being cri[)pled and overridden by the demands of 



REPORT ON EXCHANGES. 93 

a service rogartled as incidental and sul)ordinate thereto. With a view 
to diminish, if i)ossibk>, tl)e expenses involved, tbe Institution,- in 1855, 
addressed several of the leadinj;- transatlantic steam-ship companies, 
unfolding its methods, and askino-, in consideration of the great public 
benetit of the system, the favor of reduced rates of freight upon this 
particular service. 

Wifh a liberality and public spirit which can not be too highly ad- 
mired, the companies addressed agreed to carry the freights of the 
Smithsonian Institution not merely at an abatement, but without 
charge, and thus generously enabled the Institution to maintain the 
growing magnitude of the operations, when otherwise the system must 
have broken down by its own weight. 

The first privilege of free freight was extended during the year 1855 
by the following companies: 

United States Mail Stcamshij) Company, ]\I. O. Koberts, i)resident. 
Pacific Mail tSfcamship Cojiipany, \V. II. Asi)inwall, president. 
iSouth American Mail iSfe(()nshiif Company, Juan Metteson, president. 
Mexican Gulf Steamship Company, Harris & Morgan, agents. 
Panama. Pailroad Compa}ty, David Iloadley, president. 
California and Panama Steamship Company. 

In 1857 the line of sailing vessels between New York and the v/est 
coast of South America, belonging to Mr. Bartlett, 110 Wall street, akso 
engaged to carry all the Chilian exchanges free of freight. 

In 1858 Hon. 11, iSchleideu, the minister from Bremen, offered his serv- 
ices in trying to procure for the Smithsonian Institution the advantage 
office or reduced freight on exchanges for the port of Bremen, and he 
announced his success in a letter, dated January 25, 1850, in which he 
said : 

It affords me great pleasure now to inform you that, according to a 
letter of the president of tlie Lloyd, dated the 5th instant and jnst re- 
ceived, the said Bremen Steamship Company {North German Lloijd) 
have resolved lienceforth, and until further notice, to forward by their 
steamers all the i)ackages of books and si)ecimeus of natural liistory 
which the Smithsonian Institution maybe pleased to send to Germany, 
or wliich may be sent from Germany to the Smithsonian Institution, 
free of charges between New York and Bremerhaven. 

The North Atlantic Steamship Company ( J.W. Baymond) also granted 
free freight in 1850. 

On the 25th of February, 18G0, in reply to a request of Professor 
Henry, of the BJtli of February, Mr. Cunaid, of the Canard Line of 
Steamers, replied : 

I beg to inform you that I shall have much pleasure in conveying in 
our steamers from New York to Liverpool, every fortnight, one (u- more 
cases from the Smithsonian Institution to the extent of half a ton, or 20 
cubic feet measnrement; the cases to be addressed to your agent in 
Liverpool, or to his care. The arrangement of free cases is intended 
only to apply to those shipped by you from this side of the water. 



94 BEPORT ON EXCHANGES. 

lu 1801, in respouse to au application, the Hamburg ■American Packet 
Company, in a letter of Messrs. Kunliardt & Co., dated IS^ew York, Octo- 
ber 21, 18G1, granted for their line of steamers the privilege of free 
freight, be they specimens of natural history, books, or other articles, 
irresi)ecti\'e of bulk. ^ 

The privilege of free freight was furthermore accorded the Smithson- 
ian Institution by the following-named compauies : 
In 18(51. Lejfman and GutheU, Vera Cruz. 

18G8. Goinpaf)nie Generate IVansatlanfique, L. de Bebiau, agent. 
Inman steamship Gompany. 
Galifornia and Mexico ISteamship Gompany. 
Union Facijic Railroad Gompany. 
United States and Btazil ISlcamship Gompany. 
North German Lloyd, Baltimore Branch. 
Atlantic Mail Steamship Gonqniny. 
1870, Anchor Line, iTendersoi. & Brother, agents. 
1612. Jkdtic Lloyd Sfcamsiiip Gompany. 

ISTT). Atlas Steamship Gompany, Bim, Forwood & Co., agents. 
187!). Merchants^ Line of Steamers. 

Netherlands American Steam Navigation Gompany, 11. Ciizaux, 

;igent. 
White Gross Line of Antwerp, Fundi, Edye & Co., agents. 
Murray, Ferris c(; Go.'S steamships, for Bahaauis. 
1881. Red Star Line, Beter Wright & Sons, agents. 
1883. Monarch Li)ie, Barton, Yickers & Co., agents. 

American Golonization Society, Washingtou, D. C. 
Bailey, H. B., & Go., New York. 
Beadle, B. R., Bhiladelphia. 
Bixby, Thomas E. & Go., Boston. 
Bland, Thomas, New York. 
Borland, B. R., New York, 
Gameron, R. W., tO Co., New York. 
Dallctt, Bonlton ((; Go., New York. 
Dennison, Thomas, New York. 
Mnho.z y EsprieUa, New York. 
Spinneij, Joseph S., New York, 
Wilson it' As>Hn>i, New York. 
1885, Florio-Buhatiino Line, New York. 



REPORT ON EXCHANGKS. 



95 



Shi}>pi)i(/ Jji.'it. — Tlie following is Iho ,slii[>[)iiig list ;it present used iu 
the transmission of the Suiithsoniau exehauges: 



Couutry. 



Algeria 

Aiu'i'iilino Coijfederai ion . 



Antijxuiir 

Austiia-IIunnary 

Ualiamas 

Ikiliiiiiiu 



liolivia. 
IJrazil . 



lii'ltish AiiuTica 
]>iitis]i Colonies 
IJi'itisU Uiiiana . 
CajK) C()l()iiie« .. 



Chili.. 
CLina. 



Shipping agent. 



< 'olouibia, United SLate.sot . 
(y'osta Kiea 



Cnl.a 

Denmark. 



Duteli (iiiiana 

Ecuador 

lvgyi>t 

Finland , 



France .. 
Ceriuanv 



Great Britain , 



Gr(!eee 

(}iiat(5niala 

Ilayti 

Iceland . . . 



India 
Italy . 



Japan 

Liberia 

Madeira 

Malta 

ManritiiTs .. 
Mozambi(|ut 
Mexico 



Conipagnie G6ncrale Traiisatlautitiae, New York. Trans- 

ler made by the French Commission of Exchanges, in 

I'aris. 
Consul-General Carlos Carrauza, New York. Sliii)ments 

to the United States arc made through either Lewis A. 

Co., Portland, Me., or George F. iJrown, New York, rep- 
resenting Samuel 15. Hale & Co., of Liienos Ayres. 
Thomas Dennison, New York. 
North German Ijloyd, Italtiuiore. Transfer maile by Dr. 

Felix Fliigel, Leipsig. 
Murray, Ferris &. Co., New York. 
Red Star Line, New York. 
White Cross Lint;, New York. 
Consul-General Mekhor Obarrio, New York. 
Consul Charlt;s Maekall, Ealtimore. 
R. B. Borland, New York, 
Baltimore and Ohio Express Company. 
Adams Express Comjiany. 
Monarch Line to London. Transfer ma.de by Crown agents 

i'orthe colonies, London, England. 
Monarch Lin(i, N(!W York. Transfer made by W. Wesley, 

London, England. 
Monarch Line, New York. Transfer made by agent-geu- 

eral for Caj>e Colonies in London, England. 
Consul 1). de Castro, New York. 

Salter tt Livermore, New York, direct lo Shaiigha!. 
jMonarch Line, New York. Transfer made through t'rowu 

ii-gents for the colonies. London, England. 
Consul-tieneral Lino de I'ombo, New York. 
Mnhoz y Esprilla, New lork. 
Pacitio Mail Steamshi[) Comiiaiiy, New York. 
Consul-General Hipolito de IJriarte, New York. 
Consul-General Henrik Biaem, New York. 
CousmI Thomas Schmidt, New York. 
Thomas Bixby A Co., Boston, Mass. 
Consul Francis Spies. 
S. L. Jlerchant iV- Co., New York. 
Norl'li (ierman Lloyd, Baltimore. Transfer made by F. A. 

Br<jckhaus, Leipsig, Germany. 
Compagnie (Jenerale Transat!anti(iue, New York. 
Noith German Idoyd, New York or Baltinjore. 
llamlturg-American I'acket Company, New York. 
]\lonareh Lino of Steamers, New York. 
North German Lloyd, New York. 
Cuuard Royal Mail Steamship Company. 
Inman Steamship Comi)any. 
Consul D. W. Botassi, New Yo.rk. 
Consul Jacob Baez, New York. 
Atlas Stea.msliii) Company, New York. 
Consul llenrik Jiraem, JN'ew York'. Transfer made by K. 

Danske Viilenskabernes Selskab, Coiienhagen. 
Monarch Line, New York. Transfer made by Secretary 

of State for India, India Ofiice, London, England. 
Consul- General M. Ratfo, New York. Florio-Rubattino 

J^ine, New York. 
Consu'l Samro Ta.kaki, New York. 
American Colonization Association, Washington, D. C. 

Monarch Lino, to Smithsonian agent, London. 

Consul, Juan N. Navarro, N(^w York. 



96 



REPORT ON EXCHANGES 



Couutry. 



Shippiug ageut. 



Nethei'lauds ) 

Netlierlaiuls IiKliii 5 

New Caledouia 

New South Wales 

New Zealand 

Nicara""na . .. 


Consul R. C. Burlage, New York. 

Monarch Line, New York. Transfer made by Gordon & 

Gotch, London, England. 
R. W. Cameron & Co., New York. 
R. W. Cameron & Co., New York. 
Consnl-Gc-neral Alex. I. Cotheal, New York 




Consul (Jhristiau Bors, New York. 


Puragnav 

Porn 


Consul John Stewart, Washington, D. C. 
Josepli S. Spinney, New York. 
S|)anish consul, San Francisco. 
Consul Severance, Sau Francisco. 


Philippine Islands 




Consul Gustav Amsink, New York. 


Queensland 


Monarch Line, New York. Transfer made by Queensland 
department, London, England. 

Hamburg-American Packet Company, New York. Trans- 
fer made by Russian consul-general, Hamburg, Ger- 
many. 

Monarch Line, New York. Transfer made by William 
Wesley, London, England. 

Consul Isaac T. Smith, New York. 

R. W. Cameron A, Co., New York. 

Consul-General Hipolito de Uriarte, New York. 

Monarch Line, New York. Transfer made by William 
Wesley, London, England. 

Consul Christian Bors, New York. 


Russia 


St. lli'lena 

Siani 

South Australia 

Spain -- 


Straits Settlements 

Sweden 


Switzerland 


North German Lloyd, Baltimore. Transfer made by Con- 
sul von Heynian, Bremen. 

Presbyterian Rooms, New York. 

Monarch Line. New York. Transfer made by Crown agents 
for the colonies, London, or by G. W. Wheatley & Co., 
15G Leadenhall street, London, England. 

Ottoman legation, Washington, D. C. 

Wilson & Asmus, New York. 


Tasmania 

Turkey- 

Turk's Island 


Urn "nay 


Charge d'Affaires Enrique Estr,1zulas,Brooklyn,Ne wYork. 
Dallett, Boulton & Co., New York. 
R. W. Cameron &- Co., New York. 


Veneznela 

Victoria 


West Indies ...... 


H. B. Bailey & Co., New York. 





Foreign Centers of Distribution. — In carryiug on the exchanges of the 
Smithsonian Institution it was necessary to appoint a number of agents, 
and aathority for this was given by tlie Board of Regents in their meet- 
ing of February 27, 1851, when, on motion of Mr. Bache, it was resolved, 
"That the secretary be authorizetl to appoint an agent abroad to con- 
duct the exchanges of the Institution. 

The agencies established were : 

Hector Bossaugc, Paris, France; for France, Ital}', Spain, and Portu- 
gal. 

Dr. John G. FUlgel, United States consul at Leipsig, Germany; for 
the rest of continental Europe except Turkey and Greece. 

Henry Stevens, of London, England ; for England, Scotand, and Ire- 
land. 

Tiie Hon. George P. Marsh, United States minister at Constantino- 
ple, took charge of exchanges for Turkey, Greece, and northern Africa, 
and the United States consals at other places undertook, in most cases, 
to transact the business free of charge, only the actual expenses being 
refunded. 



RErORT ON EXCHANGES. 97 

These agencies beiug established, other exchanges could be carried 
on through them, and the means of couve^'auce, at the slight additional 
expense owing to the increase of freight. 

The duties of the agents of exchange consisted in the distribution of 
all the i)arcels sent them by the Smithsonian Institution and the receiv- 
ing and transmitting of return exchanges, together with any information 
which the Institution might desire, and their duties with an increase of 
the service became so great as to justify the recommendation of an in- 
crease of salary, most especially in the case of ])r. Fliigel, in Leipsig, 
which reciommendation was granted by the Board of Regents in their 
meetings of May 1, 18-52, and February 12, 1853. In 1851 the secretary 
liad again occasion to remark on the foreign agencies as follows: 

I would beg to call your attention to the zeal and fidelity with 
which the agents of the Institution in London, Leijisig, and Paris have 
discliargcd their duties. The thanks of the Institution are most espe- 
cially due to Dr. l^liigel, of Leipsig, whose efforts in the great cause of 
tightening the bonds of union between the literary and scientific men 
and institutions of the two worlds are beyond all praise. 

In 1855 the [nstitution was informed of the death of its agent in 
Leipsig, Dr. Fliigel. On this occasion Professor Henry, the Secretary of 
the Institution expressed himself: 

It becomes my duty to announce the loss which the Institution has 
experienced in the death of one of its warmest friends and most active 
agents. Dr. J. G. Fliigel. After a residence of several years in this 
country he returned to Germany as United States consul, in which 
cai)acity he was unremitting in his efforts to render service to Ameri- 
can travelers, and by his untiring industry and zeal in behalf of the In- 
stitution contributed more than any other person to make it known 
through northern and central Earoi)e. Bis son, Dr. Felix Fliigel, has 
been appt)inted his successor, and has evinced a desiie and given evi- 
dence of his ability to carry on the system with promi)tness and effi- 
ciency. 

In 18G1 the Koj'al Society of London attended to the distribution and 
collection of packages for and from Great Britain and Ireland. 

In 18G2 I\Ir. William AYesley, of London, was appointed agent for 
Great Britain and Ireland. 

In 18G3 Mr. Frederick Miiller, of Amsterdam, was ai)[)ointed agent for 
Ilolland and Belgium. 

in 1805 the firm of Hector Bossange changed to Gustave Bossauge 
& Co. 

In 1SG7 the Hon. George P. Marsh consented to take charge of ex- 
changes between the United States and Italy, and the duty of distribu- 
tion and collecting of parcels was assumed by the Imperial lioyal In- 
stitute of Milan. 

In 18G8 the Eoyal Swedish Academy of Sciences assumed charge of 
the agency for Sweden, the Royal University of Christiania for Norway, 
and the Royal Academy of Sciences of Copenhagen for Denmark. 
H. Mis. 170 7 



98 KEPORT ON EXCHANGES. 

In 18G9 tbe Uuiversity of Melbourne, Victoria, offered to receive and 
distribute exchanges for Australia and ^ew Zealand, and a bureau of 
international exchanges was established by the Government of the United 
States of Colombia in Bogota. 

In 1871 the following were added to the list of Smithsonian exchange 
agencies : 

L. Watkins & Co., St. Petersburg, for Russia. 

Eoyal Academy of Sciences, Lisbon, for Portugal. 

Royal Academy of Sciences, Madrid, for Spain. 

Parliamentary Library, Wellington, for New Zealand. 

Mr. William Wesley, London, England, for the English colonies in 
Asia and Africa. 

In 1873 the Royal Institute of Milan intrusted Mr. Ulrico Hoepli, of 
Milan, with the work of exchanges, and he assumed the duties of the 
Smithsonian agency. 

In 1874 Prof. E. H. von Baumhauer, of the Scientific Institute of Har- 
lem, offered his services for Holland, which were accepted by the Insti- 
tution. 

In 1870 therepresentativesof the various Australian colonial govern- 
ments, at the Centennial Exhibition at Philadelphia, arranged for dis- 
tributing and collecting agencies in their colonies: IS'ew South Wales, 
New Zealand, Queensland, South Australia, Tasmania, and Victoria, 
respectively. 

The Eidgenossensche Bundes-Canzlei, Bern, Switzerland; 

The Museo Nacioual, Mexico City, Mexico; 

The Universidad, Santiago, Chili ; 

The ]Museo Publico, Buenos Ayres, Argentine Republic ; 

The Minister of foreign affairs, Port au Prince, Hay ti ; 

The Minister of foreign affairs, Tokio, Japan ; 

The University of Caracas, Venezuela; 
as recipients of Government exchanges, assumed the duties of col- 
lecting and distributing Smithsonian exchanges. 

Dr. Felipe Poey, for the university at Havana, Cuba, and the Geo- 
logical Survey of Canada, in Montreal, volunteered their services as 
agents. 

In 1877 the agency in Lisbon, Portugal, was changed from the Royal 
Academy of Sciences to the Escola Polytechnica, and the Bibliotheque 
Nationale, of Athens, Greece, as recipient of the official publications, 
assumed the duties of a distributing agency. 

In 1878 the Smithsonian Institution availed itself, in its scientific 
and literary intercourse with Belgium, France, Brazil, Italy, Russia, 
and Switzerland, of the following agencies, appointed by their res])ect- 
ive governments in compliance with the stipulattons of the exchange 
convention of Paris, in 1875 : 

Belgium, Commission Beige des I^changes Inte-jruationaiix:, Brussels. 

Brazil, Brazilian Oommissiouj etc». Rio Janeiro. 



REPORT ON EXCHANGES. 



99 



France, Commission Fnin^'aise, etc., Paris. ,^ 

Italy, Italian Commission, etc., Kome. 

lUissia, Commission iinsse, etc., St. Petersburg. 

Switzerland, Conseil federal, Bern. 

In 1S.S4: the Argentine llepublic establislied an office for the depo.sit 
and distribution of ollicial publications, which, however, has not yet 
been employed by the Smithsonian Institution as agency, its exchanges 
still being in the hands of Professor IJnrmeister, of the Public IMuseum, 
where they were placed in 187G. Arrangements were also eifeoted by 
me during my ofticial visit in London with the Crown agents of the 
colonies to take charge of the Smithsonian exclianges for all the colo- 
nies under their immediate (charge. 

In 1885, by the death of Professor von Paumhauer, of Harlem, Hol- 
land, the agency for Holland was placed ii the hands of Dr. Hoek, of 
Leiden. The Government of Uruguay established an exchange bureau 
in Montevideo. 

In 188G the agencies of the Smithsonian Institution are found in 
every part of the civilized globe. The following is a complete list of 
establishments and iudividuals representing the Smithsonian Institu- 
tion abroad: 



Countries. 



Algeria 

Aisentiiie Couf etleratiou . 



Antigua 

Austria 

liahamas 

]>elgiuu; 

]k)livia 

Brazil 

British America 

British Guiana 

British colonics 

Cape colonies 

Chili 

Chiua 

Colombia, United States of 

Costa Rica 

Denmark 

Dutch Guiana 

ICcuador 

Egypt 

Finland 

France 

Germany 

Great Britain 

Greece 

Guatemala 



Agencies. 



M. Carette, chef d'etat major du gdnie, service meteoro- 

logique, Algiers. 
Museo Publico, Buenos Ayres. Oflice for the deposit and 

distribution of publications. [Deiiartuieut of Public 

Instruction.] 

Dr. Felix Fliigel, Leipsig, Gernumy. 

Commission Beige desl5changesIuternationaux, Brussels. 

Commissao Central Brazileira de Permuta(;ocs Interna- 
cionaes, Rio Janeiro. 

McGiU College, Montreal ; Geological Survey, Ottawa. 

Observatory, Georgetown. 

Crown agents for the colonies, Londoii, England. 

Agent General for Cape Colony, London, England. 

Universidad, Satitiago. 

^ Crown agents for the colonies, London, England. 

I United States consul-general, Shangluii. 

Central Conunission of Exchanges, National Library, Bo- 
gota. 

Universidad, San Jos6. 

K. D. Videuskabernes Selskab, Copenhagen. 

Surinaamsche Kolouiaale Bibliotheek, Paramaribo. 

Observatorio del Colegio Nacional, Quito. 

Institut Egyptieu, Cairo. 

Kejserliga Alexanders Universitet, Holsingfors. 

Commission Franc^aise des Echauges Internationaux, 
Paris. 

Dr. Felix Fliigel, Leipsig. 

William Wesley, Loiulon. 

National Library, Athens. 

Sociedad Ecouomica do Aniigos del Pais, Guatemala. 



100 



REPOKT ON EXCHANGES. 



CouDtries. 


Agencies. 




Priisidium des Koniglich Ungarischen Ministeriums, Bu- 


Icelaucl ... . . 


dapest. 
Islands Stiptisbokasafn, Reykjavik. 
Secretary to Government of India, Home Department, 

Calcutta. 
Biblioteca Nazionale Vittorio Emanuele, Rome. 


Iiidiji .... 


Italy 




Minister of foreign aft'airs, Tokio. 




Liberia College, Monrovia. 


Madeira 


William Wesley, London, England. 
William Wesley, London, England. 
Agent-general for Cape Colony, London, England. 
Agent-general for Cape Colony, Loudon, England. 
SenorMiuistro de Justicia y Istrucciou Pi'iblica, Mexico. 

Bureau Scientifique Central Neerlandais, Leiden. 

Gordon & Gotcb, London. 


Malta 

Mauritius 




Mex-ico ... 


Netlierlauds ^ 


New Zcalaud . ..... 


Koyal Society of New South Wales, Sydney. 
Parliamentary Library, Wellington, New Zealand. 
Government of Nicaragua, Managua. 


Nicaragua 








Government of Paraguay. 


Peru 


Polynesia 


Koyal Economic Society, Manila. 

Royal Hawaiian Agricultural Society, Honolulu. 

Esola Polytechnica, Lisbon. 

Government Meteorological Observatory, Brisbane. 

Commission Russe des Echanges luteruationaux (Bib- 

liotheque Impdriale Publiqne), St. Potersbourg. 
Crown agents for the colonies, Loudon, England. 
Astronomical Observatory, Adelaide. 
R. Academia de Ciencias Madrid. 




Queensland 




South Australia 


Sjtain 


Straits Settlements 

Sweden . . 


Crown agents for the colonies, London, England. 
K. S. Vetenskaps Akademien, Stockholm. 
Eidgenosseuche Bundes-Canzlei, Bern. 
Royal Society of Tasmania, Hobarton. 
Public Library, Grand Turk. 
Bureau de Statistique, Montevideo. 
University, Caracas. 
Public Library, Melbourne. 

R. Universidad, Havana. 


Switzerland 

Tasmania 

Turk's Island 

Uruguay 


Venezuela 

Victoria 

West Indies : 

Cuba 


Hayti 




Trinidad 


Prince. 
Scientific Association, Port of Spain. 





REPORT ON EXCHANGES. 



101 



The entire cost of the exchange system to the Institution since its 
establishment is shown in tlie table, whicli is followed by a statement 
of the assistance rendered by the (lovernment during the last six years: 



1846-1850. 

1851 

1852 

1853 

1854 

1855 

1856 

1857 

1858 

1859 

I8fi0 

1861 

18G2 

1863 

1864 

1865 

1866 

1867 

1868 

1869 



SI, 



010. 
178. 

807. 

7:?s. 

930. 
517. 
500. 
3-26. 
027. 
348. 
499. 
724. 
735. 
779. 
807. 
252. 
701. 
870. 

8(;o. 



1870 
1871 
1872 
1873 

1874 
1875 

1876 

1877 
1878 
1879 
1880 
1881 
1882 
1.-83 
1884 
1885 
1885- 



( first 6 montlis). 
-'86 



$i, 



165. 62 
201.. 50 
870. 32 
2r.l. 74 
589. 89 
748. 80 
199. 10 
790. 73 
250.41 
.554. 47 
99(5. 05 
467. 84 
9S1. 19 
(192.34 
510.71 
307. 59 
005. 80 



Total 200,806.61 



Of these amounts the following payments were made by the United 
States Government, on account of the Government Document Exchange, 
authorized by acts of Congress, March 2, 18G7, and July 2a, ISGS, viz: 



1881. 
1882. 
1883. 



!li3, COO 
5, 000 
7, 500 



1884 $10, (X)0 

1885 10,000 

1886 10,000 



GOVERNMENT DOCUMENTS. 

The first action by Congress relating to an international exchange of 
official publications was a joint resolution, July 20, 1840 {SUifntes at 
Large, vol. v, i>. 509), authorizing the Librarian of Congress, under the 
direction of the Committee on the Library, " to exchange such dujdi- 
cates as may be in the library for other books," and to exchange, in the 
same manner, public documents, of which "fifty additional coi>ies" were 
ordered to be [)rinted for the i)urpose. Sui)plementary acts were passed 
March 4, 1S4G; June 2G, 1848; June oO, 1848; March 2, 1849; August 
.SI, 1852; August 18, 185<;; March 2, 18G7. 

The last Congressional action was taken on July 25, 18GS, in the fol- 
lowing terms : 

"(No. 72) A rcsolKtioa io carry into cjfect the resolution approved March 
2, \'f>{)l, prorUUng for the exchange of certain puMic documents. 

'•'■ Resolved hy the Senate and House of Representatives of the United 
States in Congress assenthled, That the Congressional JPrinter, whenever 
he shall be so directed by the Joint Committee on the Library, be, and 

*The apparent decrease in the cost of exchanges for the fiscal year 1885-86 is duo, 
to the re-imbursemeut during that year of a check for $2,498 lost in the mails In the 
year 1884-85. It was charged to the first six ninntlis of 1885, and thus increases the 
cost of exchanges for that period and diminishes that for the year 1885-'86 by credit 
for re-iuibursement. 



102 REPORT ON EXCHANGES. 

lie hereby is, directed to print fifty copies, in addition to the rej^ular 
ninnber, of all documents hereafter printed by order of either house of 
Congress, or by order of any Deimrtiuent or Bureau of the Government, 
and whenever he shall be so directed by the Joint Committee on the 
Library one hundred co])ies additional of all documents ordered to be 
l)rinted, in excess of the usual number ; said fifty or one hundred copies 
to be delivered to the Librarian of Congress, to be exchanged, under 
direction of the Joint Committee on the Library, as provided by joint 
resolution approved March 2, 18G7." 

"Section 2. And be it further rcmJced^ That 50 copies of each publi- 
cation i)rinted niuier tlie direction of any Department or Bureau of the 
Government, whether at the Congressional printing office or elsewhere, 
shall be plained at the disposal of tlie Joint Committee on the Library, 
to carry out the provision of said resolution." 

By this joint resolution fifty extra copies are ordered from the Public 
Printer of all executive as well as Congressional docuuaents, including, 
Lst. The Congressional issue, journals, committee reports, and miscel- 
laneous documents; 2d. The Annual lieports of the Executive Dei)art- 
ments and the several Bureaus; and od. The Memoirs, Monographs, 
and Special lieports published by the Executive Departments and the 
several Bureaus. 

Owing to the failure of the Public Printer to coraplj' with those x)or- 
tions of the law relating to the second and third series of the United 
States official publications — the annual reports and the memoirs, mono- 
graphs, and special rei)orts published by the Executive Departments 
and Bureaus of the Government (although occasionally some few of 
the works of these classes have been received) — a circular letter was 
addressed by the Smithsonian Institution on the 15th of February, 1881, 
to all the Departments and Bureaus of the Government, soliciting co- 
operation in compliance with the existing law^s, so as to enable the Insti- 
tution, as agent of the Government, to carr^' out the provisions of the 
Congressional resolutions. 

Among the rei)lies received that of the honorable Secretarj- of State 
says : 

" I have ventured to suggest to the Joint Committee on the Library 
the desirability of a i)ermanent i>rovision for the priiiling of these de- 
sired co})ies." 

On March 7, ISSl, Professor P>aird addressed a communication to the 
ITon. John Sherman, chairman of the Joint Committee on the Library, 

suggesting: 

" I would therefore ask you respectfully to consider the several enact- 
ments upon the subject of international exchange with which this In- 
stitution is charged, and that such supplementary legislation be pro- 
vided as will enable us to surmount the difficulties referred to." 

Appended to this letter a list was given of the more important doc- 
uments not furnished to the Smithsonian Institution, although they arc 
included in the series included by Congress for exchange purposes. 

Among such documents tlie following may be mentioned (assuming 



REPORT ON EXCHANGES, lO 



Series I, tlie Congressional issue, as delivered complete, althougli even 
herein too many deticieneies occur): 

Series IL The Anniud Reports of the h]xe(;utive Departments and JUi- 
reans of the Government, together with the papers accompanying such 
reports (section 379G, Revised Statutes, and resolution 72, second session 
Fortieth Congress. 

Series III. The Memoirs, Monographs, or Special Reports published by 
the Executive Departments or Bureaus of the Government, whether 
printed at the Government Printing Ofiice or elsewhere (section 2, res- 
olution 72, second session Fortieth Congress). 

This last series comprises, among many others, the following most 
valuable publications: 
rntent Otftee. 

Ofticial Gazette. 
Specitications and Drawings. 
Growth of Industrial Art. 

Of this last-named work only iifty copies were i:)rinted, althougli the 
law (section 2, resolution 72, second session Fortieth Congress, Statutes 
at "Large, Vol. XV, ]>. 201) distinctly provides that " titty copies of each 
publication - - - whether printed at the Ct)ngressional Printing 
Office or elsewhere, shall b(^ i)laced at the disposal of the Joint Com- 
mittee." 

U. S. Geological Surveij. 
Bulletins. 
Monographs. 

A letter was ad<lressed to the Director of the Geological Survey Feb- 
ruary lo, 1884, chiiming fifty copies of all the publications of that office 
for exchange [)ur|)Oses under the law. In reply, the Director stated, 
February 2(;, 18S4 : 

" Under tlu^ law of March 2, 18G7, fifty copies of everything published 
by us should be sent to tlie Library of Congress and thence to the Smith- 
sonian Institution, by the Public Printer, and such co})ies are reserved 
for that puri)ose and do not come into our possession. 

Under tlic statutes relating to the publication of the xMonogra[ilis of 
the Survey it wouhl be impossible to spare any copies from the three 
thousand received by this office, from t lie fact that it is necessary for 
the Survey to render an a(;couiit of its publications, either as sold, ex- 
changed, or on haiKi." 

Tenth Census of the United States. 
]\Ionographs. 
Not a single volume of these has been received under Section III of 
the Government i>ublicaiiuns, as [)rescribed by hiw. 
Fish Com m ission. 

Bulletins, volumes 1 to 5. 
State Department. 

Consular Reports. 
Of these only the numbers 1 to 22 have been received. 



104 EEPORT ON EXCHANGES. 

Coast and Geodetic iiurrcy. 

PiiblicatioiKs. 
American and Foreign Claims Commissions. 

As those relating- to France, Hayti, Spain, the Alabama, etc., none 
of which has been received; nor in fact any of the publications of the 
Departments and Bureaus of the Government. 

No action havin.2: been had on the subject, a further request was ad- 
dressed to the Library Committee on the 21st of September, 1.SS5, 
and again to the Hon. W. J. Sewell, Chairman of the Joint Library 
Committee, on the 18th of January, 18SG, and although no delinite 
result has yet been accomplished, it is to be hoped that Congress, 
through the Library Committee, may take such action as will secure 
to the Smithsonian Institution, as the agent of the Government, fifty 
copies of each of the three distinct series specified in the acts of March 
2, 1867. and July 25, 1SG8, so as to enable. the Government, to obtain 
for its Library the entire fruit of the wise provision of Congress in es- 
tablishing this exchange of official i:)ublic documents. 

INTERNATIONAL PROCEEDINGS. 
The Brussels Convention on International Exchanges. 

As a result of the proceedings of the conference held at Brussels in 
April, 1883, a draft of articles of agreement was adopted, to be submit- 
ted to the contracting powers for final ratification, as already set forth 
in the annual report on exchanges for 1883. The date appointed for 
this ratification was March 15, 188G, and the further proceedings in the 
matter are fully exhibited by the following correspondence with the 
Department of State : 

From the Secretary of State, March 3, 1886, to the Smithsonian Insti- 
tution. 

Sir: I have the honor to transmit to you herewith, for your informa- 
tion and consideration, a translatioii of a note from the minister of Bel- 
gium at this capital, notifying this Government that the diplomatic 
conference for the signing of the convention relative to the international 
exchange of official documents and of scientific and literary publica- 
tions will meet at the ministry of foreign affairs at Brussels on Monday, 
the 15th day of the present month. 

1 should be pleased to have your views as to the expediency of this 
Government becoming a party to the convention in question. 
I have the honor to be, sir, your obedient servant, 

T. F. Bayard. 

[Inclosure.] 

From the Belgian minister at Washington, February 18, 1886, to the Sec- 
retary of State. 

Mr. Secretary of State: I have the honor to inform your excel- 
lency that the diplomatic conference for the signing of the conventions 
relative to the international excihanire ol official documents and of sci- 



REPORT ON EXCHANGES. 1 Of) 

entific and literary publications will meet at tlic niiuistry of foreiiiii 
affairs at Brussels on Monday, the loth day of March next, at li o'clock. 

JJelgiuni, JJrazil, Spain, Italy, Portugal, Servia, and Switzerland have 
adopted the arrangement drafted by the conference of ISS.'J for general 
exchanges, (I'l'otocol A.) 

Switzerland has not adiieied to Draft B, concerning the direct and 
immediate transmission to the legislative clnunbers of the Ofticial Jour- 
nal and of the re])()rts of Parliamentary ])roc('edings. That special con- 
vention will, however, be concluded l)y all the other States that I have 
just named. 

Your excell(>ncy had tlie kindness to iid'orm nie. under date of Octo- 
ber 1(), 188;"), that you had uot yet reached a decision on this subject, but 
that, meanwhile, you reserved to the Government of the United States 
of America the privilege of adhering thereafter. 

My Government hopes that the United States Government will be 
represented at that conference and has instructed me to make inijuiry 
of your excellency's intentions in this matter. I shall therefore be 
grateful to you if you will have the kinduess to make nu^ acquainted 
with them as soon as may be convenient. 

It is i)roper fVu' me to add that Greece and Roumania have likewise 
Just been re(]nested to communicate their intentions. 

1 gladly avail myself of tins occasion to renew to your excellency the 
assurances of my highest considei'ation. 

TiiEO. DE Bounder de Melseroeck. 

From the ISinithsoniaii Instltiitio)i, JlLarch 5, 18S6, to the Secretary of 

State. 

Sir : Yonr letter of the 3d instant is received, but owing to the short 
notice given us of the ])roposed diplomatic conference for "tiie signing 
of conventions relative to the international exchange of official docu- 
ments and scientilic ami literary publications," to be held at Brussels on, 
as you state, March 15, we are unable to meet definitely or in detail your 
invitation for our "views as to the expediency of this CJovernment be- 
coming a party to the conference in ciuestion." 

We beg to say, however, that the Smithsoiuan Institution, as the 
agent for international exchange on the part of the United States, will 
be hap})y to comi)ly with the stipulations of the conferences as far as 
may be in its power, including the sending of daily reports of Gongres- 
sioual i^roceedings to the several governments. 

I have the honor to be, very respectfally, your obedient servant, 

SrENCER F. Baird, 
Secretarif Sm ithsoniaii Institution. 

From the Secretary of Stat e^ April 0, LSSfJ, to the Smithsonian Institution- 

SiR: I have the honor to transmit to you, herewith, a copy of a dis 
patch to this Department from Mr. Tree, our nunister at Brussels, con- 
cerning the two conventions, A and B, for the exchange of public docu- 
ments, winch were signed by him on the 15th ultimo. 

I beg to inquire whether you have any views to make known before 
the conveutious are submitted to the Senate with a view to their ratifi- 
cation. 

I have the honor to be, sir, your obedient servant, 

T. F. Bayard. 



106 EEPOET ON EXCHANGES. 

[InclDsurcl 

From the United Stales mirmter at Brussels, March 23, 1880, to the Sec- 
retary of State. 

Sir : I bave tbe honor to tiansLuit herewith — 

(1) Tlie original instrument of the convention concerning the interna- 
tional exchange of official documents and scientific and literary imbli- 
cations. 

(2) Tlie original instrument of the convention concerning the imme- 
diate exchange of the official journal as well as of i)arliamentary annals 
and documents. 

(3) A certified copy of the. 2)ri>ces-rerl)al of the sitting held at the de- 
partment of foreign affairs the 15th of INIarch, 1880. 

1 also send translations which I have made of each of the documents. 
In consequence of their detention at the department of foreign affairs 
to await tlse signature of the Prince de Oaramau, I only received them 
to-day. 

I have the honor to be, sir, your obedient servant, 

Lameekt Tree. 

[Inclosuro.] 

1. Tlie original instniinent of the convention concerning the intcraationiil exchange 
of oflicial (locuuients and scieutitic and literary publications. 

2. Translation of No. 1. 

;>. The original instrument of the conventions for the immediate exchange of offi- 
cial journal as well as the parliamentary annals and documents. 

4. Translation of No. :i 

5. A certifi<;d copy o( the 2iroci's-verJ)al. 

6. Translation of No. 5. 

The above documents were duly returned to the Department of 
State, with the following letter: 

From the Smithsonian Institution, April 27, 1886, to the Secretari) of State 

Sir: In returning, as I do herewith, the documents relative to the 
Exchange Convention, held at Brussels on the loth of March last, and 
which were inclosed with your letters of April 9 and 17, I l)eg to state 
that, upon mature consideration, I have no further suggestions to nnike 
as to tlie acceptance of the terms proposed at the Brussels Conference. 

1 entertain the view, however, that the expectations of the Jielgian 
Government in proposing exchange relations beyond those at present 
existing will be but iudiftereutly realized, since all the lyromincnc gov- 
ernments have declined to participate in its propositions, only those of 
Spain, Italy, Portugal, Servia,an.d Belgium, of European, and the United 
States and Brazil, of American nations, having expressed a desire to 
ratiiy the convention. 

Tile Smithsonian Institution, as agent of the Governmentof the United 
States for the exchange of its official jntblications, having thus far ob- 
tained satisfactory results by dealing individually with governments 
whose publications are desirable, it would appear to me doubt fid 
whether additional benefits could be derived by adhesion to a treaty 
with a few of the more unimportant governments of Europe. 

I have the honor to be, very respectfullv, your obedient servant, 

S. F. Baird. 



REPORT ON EXCHANGES. 107 

CORRESPONDENCE WITH THE ARGENTINE REPUBLIC. 

in accoptaiice, on the part of:" the Ai\i;eutiiie Govermneiit, of the terms 
of exclianj;c proposed by the Sinitlisoiiian Institution on behalf of the 
Government of the United States, tlie lirst transmission for that country, 
of six boxes, was made on November 18, 1875, through the Argentine 
ambassador, Mr. G. A'i<lela Dorna, in I^ew York. 

In 1870 an application for a set of these oflicial i:)nblications for the 
Government of the province of Buenos Aja^es was favorably considered, 
and on j^ovember 21 , 187G, the tirst installment of seven boxes forwarded 
to its destination. Both sets have since been increased to twenty-six 
boxes each. 

On jSTovember Uo, 1881, i\Ir. Marcus F. (Tntierez, director of the office 
for the deposit and distribution of the i)ublications of the Argentine 
Government in IJuenos Ayres, addressed the Smithsonian Institution 
with the request for a copy of the United States official publications 
for deposit in his office. 

On December 18, 1881, the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution 
replied that the oflicial publications of tlie United States are already 
represented in two copies in the city of Buenos Ayres, and regretting 
his inability of furnishing a third co])y. 

(Jn October 20, 1885, Mr. Gutierez addressed to the Smithsonian In- 
stitution a letter of which the following is a translation : 

Sir : The undersigned, director of the office for the deposit and dis- 
tribution of the publications of this Goverinneut, has the honor to ad- 
dress to you a copy of the Superior Decree of July 25, A. G., specity- 
ing the rules and regulations adopted by his excellency the Minister 
of Justice, Worsliip, and Public Instruction, Dr. Edward Wilde, for 
the governmetit of this office, which is to promote the international ex- 
change of i)ublicatioiis. 

From this decree you will learn tlie conditions under which this office 
can undertake the exchange of iniblications vrilh governments, libraries, 
and foreign establishments, and if these are agreeble to you I would 
thank you for your opinion how this exchange is best to be instituted. 
It is hoped that this arrangement will result in a full and mutually 
valuable exchange of the intellectual productions of our respective 
countries. 

Marcus F. Gutierez. 

rXraiisIatiOD.! 

Decree and ref/nlations conccrninp the international excJianfje of imhlica- 

tions. 

Argentine Republic, 
Department of Justice, Worship, and Public Instruction, 

Buenos Ayres^ Juhj 25, 1885. 

In order to provide in the best manner ])ossible, in accordance with 
the intentions of the decree of IMay 2, 1870, tor the mutual exchange of 



108 REPORT ON EXCHANGES. 

publications between the Republic and tlie other countries with which 
it maintains amicable relations the President of the Kepublic decrees : 

AirncLE 1. Tlie " Office for the Deposit and Distrihiitiou of Publications " sliall have 
henceforth a special department, charged with the business of international exchange. 

Art. 2. Under the iiumediate jurisdiction of the Department of Public Instruction, 
the office named -will be charg(>d with the duty of beginning and maintaining an ex- 
change with the governments, official or public libraries, and scientific or literary 
societies of the countries which accept or solicit it. 

Art. 3. In order that the office named may atteiul properly to the interchange 
which luay be established, all the offices of the nation will send it at least 20 per cent, 
of the publications which they may have or which they may receive in virtue of aid 
or subsidy granted them. 

Art. 4. The Department of Public Instruction will regulate the execution of this 
decree. 

Art. .'). The decree shall be communicated to all concerned, published, and in- 
serted in the R. N. 

RKGULATIONS FOR THE " OFFICE FOR THE DEPOSIT AND DISTRIBUTION OP PUBLI- 
CATIONS" IN ACCORDANCE W'lTH THE DECREE OF THE 'J.JTH OF THE PRESENT MONTH 
ESTABLISHINO THE EXCHANGE OF PUBLICATIONS. 

Buenos Ayres, July 26, 1885. 

Article 1. In compliance with the order contained in the decree of the 25th of the 
present month of July, the "Office for the Deposit and Distribution of Publications" 
will, by means of the department charged with the international exchange, establish 
aninterchangeof publications oftho Republic with the governments, public and private 
libraries, and scientific or literary societiesof the countries which acceptor solicit it, 
said office giving account in each case to the Department of Public Instruction, with- 
out whose previous aiiprobatiou it can not proceed. 

Art. 2. The " Office for the Deposit and Distribution of Publications" will keep a 
day-book in whicli it will note the number, title, and condition of the publications 
received from the national offices. ' 

Art. 3. Before complying with tlie requests for books, memorials, or other publica- 
tions, which may bo made to it by the governors of provinces, departments of the 
Government, or other public or private offices, or with those which itniay receive 
from abroad, the "Office for the Deposit and Distribution of Puldications" must obtain 
the consent of the Department of Public Instruction. 

Art. 4. The office will carry out directly the orders of the departments refisrring to 
their respective deposits, having first fleducted the 20 pcv cent, of the publications 
intended for international exchange. 

Art. 5. In the monthly report of operations which the office must remit to the 
Department of Public Instruction, it will include a statement of the works received 
as exchange during the month, in order that the department may assign them to their 
proper destination. 

Art. G. Applications from individuals must' be made on common iiaper, and the 
office will send them to the Department of Public Instruction for its decision. 

Art. 7. The office may apply to the governors of provinces, official and private cor- 
porations, and to the editors of the Republic, soliciting in the most respectful terms 
the remission or exchange of the works they may publish, aid, or edit. 

Art. 8. The office will take care to distribute among the ministers and consuls re- 
siding in the Republic and among the Argentine ministers and consuls residing in 
foreign countries all oificial publications whose circulation may promote the interests 
of the nation. 

Art. 0. The office will ])ublish once a month in at least two daily i)apers of the 
capital the monthly re])ort of its operations referred to in article 5. 



KEPORT ON EXCHANGES. 109 

AuT. 10. TIio orgauizatiou Lerctol'oie cxistint;; in the "OIHcofor the Deposit and 
Distributiou of Publicatioiiis" shall I'eiuaiu in force so far as it is uofc iiicousisteut 
with the preseDt. 

AiiT. 11. Tlie present regulations shall he coinnumicated to all interested and the 
chiei' of the " Ottice for the Deposit and Distribution of Publications" is authorized 
to order it to be printed in suitable form. 

E. Wilde. 
Attest : 

Juan IgarzxIBAl. 

Ill a second letter of the same date (l)ctober UO, 18S5) l\lr. (hitierez 
aiiuounces the seiidiiiy; of publications. "A delay was caused," lie con- 
tinued, "by the difficulties inherent in a newly created oflice ; jnore- 
over, I desire to make the sending;' of some importance to corresfiond in 
a measure with your kindness." 

On the 2()th December, 1885, the Secretary of the Institution replied 
to Mr. Gutierez : 

Sir : 1 have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your communi- 
cations of October UO, 1885, and to say that we await with i)leasure the 
receipt of the important sending to which you refer, on the part of the 
Argentine Kepublic, in return for the official publications of the United 
States Government, of which two sets have been contributed to Buenos 
Ayres, one for the Government of the Eepublic, and one lor the govern- 
ment of the Province. 

1 am, your obedient servant, 

S. F. Baird. 

CORRESPONDENCE WITH AUSTRIA-HUNGARY. 

F7^o}ii the Smithsonian Institution^ October 12,1885,^0 Count Lippe Weiss 
enfeU, charge d'affaires ofAustria-Hungarij. 

Sir : On October 9, 18S1, Mr. George H. Boehmer, a delegate of the 
Smithsonian Institution, the authorizedagent of the Government of the 
United States, had the honor of being introduced by the United States 
embassador in Vienna, to his excellency the Gount Szogyenyi, tirst 
section chief in the I. B. foreign office, for the purpose of arranging for 
an exchange of official public documents between the Government of the 
United States and the Imperial Government of Austria. 

His excellency the Gount Szogyenyi being favorably impressed with 
the proposition of such exchange placed the preliminary steps of ar- 
rangements into the hands of M. de Plason, a councilor in the foreign 
oftice with whom the Smithsonian representative was placed in commu- 
nication. After various consultations with this gentleman, Mr. Boehmer 
was oflicially introduced by the foreign office to the chiefs of the vari- 
ous departments of the Imperial Grovernment, most of whom were fav- 
orably inclined conditionally to enter into an exchange on the proposed 
basis. 

The exchange proposed b^" the Smithsonian Institution includes all 
publications made by Congressional order since January 1, 1808, and 
comprises the parliamentary proceedings, projects at law, reports, and 
scientific works of the departments and bureaus of the Government, 



110 REPORT ON EXCHANGES. 

representing at present a bulk of twenty-three boxes of abont 6i cubic 
feet each, with a total weight of abont 5,500 pounds. 

These works, the titles of which are specitied in the accompanying 
documents, have been oHered in one copy, for deposit in one general 
library, as a complete set of the United States publications as ordered 
])rinted by Congress, and an equally exhausiive return has been asked 
for from the Im])crial Government. 

While now the chiefs of the various departments approve of the estab- 
lishment of exchange relations, there is a tendency among them to dis- 
card a centralization of tlie works, and rather express a desire of each 
selecting from the books thus offered such as may be of interest and 
value to their respective departments, and in exchange for such they 
are willing to make equivalent returns. 

While now, on the ])art of the United States Government, no special 
objection could be had to such a distribution of their documents, such 
course would have a tendency of complicating matters, and require of 
some works a number of copies to sui>i)ly the demands made for them 
b3' various departments all equally interested in the acquisition of any 
particular work, while the Smithsonian Institution as ageutof the Gov- 
ernment, can, under the law, only ofier one single cop3\ 

Furthermore, there has been in existence for a number of years an 
independent exchange between corresponding departments and bureaus 
of the two nations, and many documents have been received by them 
and thereby' render a division of the documents to be received under 
the proi)osed exchange unnecessary; neither has the Smithsonian In- 
stitution, as the agent of the Government, the power of discriminating 
which of the books to send, but is compelled to furnish one copy of 
every document received to any of the contracting powers. 

From these considerations the Smithsonian Institution could not pos- 
sibly consent to the proposition made by the chiefs of the respective de- 
partments, to select from the list of works such as may be of interest to 
the department, but we would have to send one complete collection to 
the foreign ottice, or any place of deposit designated by the Imperial 
Government for the reception of the publications, to be distributed as 
may be deemed most advantageous by the Imperial Government. 

All this was stated by Mr. lioehmer in his conferences with M. de 
Plason, and the suggestion made by him that the individual exchange 
now existing between the corresponding bureaus be continued uninter- 
ruptedly, while the foreign office charge itself with the collecting, from 
the various bureaus of ihe Imperial Government, of one copy each of 
their respective publications in direct response to the system of ex- 
changes to be inaugurated between the Governments. 

In acceptance by the Imperial Government of a former proposition of 
the United States Government, the first two boxes of books had alrea<ly 
been sent to Vienna in 1875, where they were deposited in tbe Imperial 
library, but further sendings were declined by the librarian as toobulki/ 
(Old incomplete. Tlie hnllc of valuable books should be a rather favora- 
ble consideration for a librarian, while com])leteness can not be expected 
in the contents of two boxes of ofticial publications from various delays 
which may occur during the process of issue. 

Another point of disagreement in the establishment of the proposed 
exchange relation is found in tlie transmission of exchange boxes, 
'• there being no fun(fs available in the Imperial foreign office for such 
exi)enditure." 

The (aistom of the Smithsonian Institution iu its intercourse with for- 
eign nations has been for each to prepay their sendings to the nearest 



REPORT ON EXCHANGES. Ill 

seaport, from wbeiice the diarizes for ocean freight, etc., are assumed 
by the recipient. Shoukl, however, the Imperial government prefer 
haviiig all exchanges delivered to any representative in Wasiiington, 
those intended for the United States might be delivered to Dr. Felix 
Fliif^el, in Leipsic, the agent of the Smitlisonian Jnstitntion. 
1 have tlie honor to be, sir, your obedient servant, 

8. V. Baikd. 

CORRESrONDENCE WITH GREAT BIMTAIN. 

From the Department of State, April 10, LS8(>, to tlie ISmUh.sonuoi Inslitit' 

tion. 

iSiR: Api)lication having been made through our legation at London 
for certain jiublications of tliis Government for the use of the library of 
the IJritisli ]\Iuseum, I liave the honor to request you to inform tliis 
]^epartment as to the i)ractical working of the exchange of Government 
publications between tliis country and Great Britain. Information is 
])articularly desired as to whether or not the publications of the British 
Government are received regularly in exchange for those of our Gov- 
ernment which are sent to London ; and also as to what library or 
libraries in Great Britain receive the publications of this Government 
which are forwarded to tliat country through the exchange bureau of 
the Smithsonian Institution. 

I have the honor to be, sir, vour obedient servant, 

T. F. Bayard. 

From the Smithsonian InstitiUion, April 22, ISSG, to the Secretary of 

State. 

Sir : I ha\ e the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your letter of 
the 10th instant, relative to an api)lication made by the Ijritish Museum 
in London for certain publications of the United States Government 
and requesting information as to the practical working of the exchange 
of oflicial publications between this country and England, and as to 
the number of copies of official publications sent through the exchange 
bureau of the Smithsonian Institution to libraries in Great Britain. 

In reply I beg to state that the Smithsonian Institution, on behalf of 
the United States Government, has sent to the British Government a 
full series of all the documents ordered to be printed by order of either 
House of Congress and beginning with the 1st of January, 1S08, as spec- 
itied m the accompanying pamphlets. By direction of Lord Granville 
all transmissions are nnide to the British Museum. 

In addition to these oflicial i)ublications the Smithsonian Institution 
has furnished the British Museum with the following series of its own 
publications: Contributions to Knowledge, vols. 1 to 25; Miscellaneous 
Collections, vols. 1 to 27; annual Beports^ 1340 to 18S3; annual Keports, 
Bureau of Ethnology, vols. 1 to 3 ; Proceedings of the National Mu- 
seum, vols. 1 to 7; Bulletins of the National Museum, Nos. 1 to 27. 

And to the natural history division of the British Museum : Contribu- 
tions to Knowledge, vols. 1 to 2.") ; ^Miscellaneous Collections, vols. 1 to 27 ; 
annual lieports, 1851 to 1883; Bulletins National JMuseum, Nos. 1 to 27. 

The returns on the i)art of the British Museum have been confined to 
the series of its own publications, which are sent in two copies for the 
libraries of the Smithsonian Institution and National Museum, respect- 
ively. 



112 REPORT ON EXCHANGES. 

Ou the part of the British Govern nient the promise of a complete set 
of English publications for the use of tlie United States Government 
was made by Lord Granville on the 20th of March, 1883, in a letter to 
Mr. Lowell, in which he refers to former correspondence on the subject. 
The publications offered are : 

(1) Papers of all kinds printed for or presented to either house of 
Parliament. 

(2) Historical, scientific, or antiquarian works published by the Gov- 
ernment, su(;1j as record publi(^ations. 

(3) Maps or charts published by the Government. 

(4) Departmental publications which are i)laced on sale. 

In 1883 the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, on behalf of the 
Librarian of (Jongress, made application to the British Government 
through the Department of State for certain works required to till de- 
ficiencies in the series on file in the Congressional Library. This re- 
quest was granted by the lords of Her Majesty's treasury, who di- 
rected the superintendent of Her Majesty's stationery office in London 
to deliver the same as fiir as possible to the agent of the Smithsonian 
Institution. These were received by Mr. George H. Boehmer, the gen- 
tleman in charge of the exchange division of the Smithsonian Institu- 
tion, in November, 1884, on occasion of a visit to London on exchange 
business. These, together with a few volumes of the Challenger Ex- 
pedition reports, form the only publications received from the British 
Government in exchange for the official documents sent by the United 
States Government. 

A second set of United States ofiicial publications was ordered by my 
predecessor, tlie late Prof. Joseph Henry, ou the Oth of December, 1876, 
to be sent to the Koyal Society of Edinburg, Scotland. These sendings, 
comprising eleven boxes, were discontinued in 1878. 

If the negotiations now pending should be concluded to the satisfac- 
tion of the United States Government, the continuation of this set, now 
representing fifteen boxes, miglit be placed at the disposal of the British 
Government for use in the library of the House of Lords or that of the 
House of Commons. 

I have the honor to be, sir, your obedient servant, 

S. F. Baird. 



ADDITIONS AND CORRECTIONS TO THE LIST OF FOREIGN COR- 
RESPONDENTS TO JULY, 188G. 



By George H. Boehmer. 



Oran. 



22. College. 



AFRICA. 

ALGERIA. 
CAPE COLONY, 



Cape Town. 

28. Botanic Gardens. 

2Sa. Commissioners of Crown Lands and Public Works. 

38. Soutli African (College. 
Graham Town. 

44. Capo Law Jonrnal. 

EGYPT. 

Abbesich. 

45a. Laboratoire Kbedivial. 
Alexandria. 

4G. Ej:?yptian Society. 

47. Ministere de I'Interienr. (In Cairo.) 
Cairo. 

5L Bibliotbeqne Kbediviale. 

51c. Direction Generale de hi Statistique. 

52. General Staff Library. 

53a. Ministere de I'Interienr. 

59. Societ6 Iilgyptieune. (Dead.) 

G2. Topographical Office. (Department of War.) 

MOZAMBIQUE. 

Mozambique. 

S5. Sociedad de Geografia. (Does not exist.) 

NATAL. 

Natal. 

80. Tlie Observatory. 

n. Mis. 170 8 



113 



AMERICA (XOrtTH). 

BKITISH AMERICA. 

BRITISH COLUMBIA. 

Victoria. 

90. Provincial Museum. 

CANADA. 

Clifton (Ontario). 

98. Toronto ISTews Company. 
Coburg {Ontario). 

100. Victoria University. 
Kingston {Ontario). 

108. Eoyal Military College. 
London {Ontario). 

112. Western University. 
Matapedia {Quehec). 

112a. Eistigouclie Salmon Club. 
Montreal {Quebec). 

114. Canada Citizen. 

IIG. Canadian Eecord of Science. 

116&. Canadian Society of Civil Engineering, [i] 

120. Montreal Botanic Garden. 

128. Observatory. 

136. United Science Institute. 
Ottawa ( On fario). 

137. Academy of lifatural Sciences. (Does not exist.) 
144. Institut Canadien Frangais. 

147a. Minister of Justice. 

148. Patent Office. 
Quebec {Quebec). 

154. Department of Education. 

157a. Literary and Philosophical Society. 

158. The Observatory. 
Sherbrooke {Quebec). 

1G2. Sherbroolvo Free EeadingKoom. 
St. Catherine {Ontario). 

163. Fruit Growers' and Forestry Association. (Now in Grimsby, 
Out.) 
114 



LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 115 

Toronto {Ontario). 

IGl. Board of Health. 

171. Government of Canada. (In Ottawa see 115.) 

173. Legislative Library, [i] 

ISO. Toronto Baptist College. 

NE Wro UNDI^ AND . 

St. John's. 

222. St. Jobn's AtheniBum. 

NORTHWEST TERRITOIIY. 

Regina. 

222«. Government House. [1] 

NOVA SCOTIA. 

Halifax. 

228. Kings County Librar3\ 

235. Nova Scotia Medical Society, [ij (Now Provincial Medi- 
cal Board of Nova Scotia.) 
Wolfville. 

216. Canadian Postal College of the Natural Sciences. 



CEKTEAL AMERICA. 

COSTA RICA. 

San Jose. 

248. Miiiistcrio de Relac"oues Exteriores. 
248c. Musco Nacional. 

GUATEMALA. 

Guatemala. 

250a. Auales Estadisticas de la Eepiiblica. 
250b. Direcciou General de Estadistica. 
254. Museo de Ilistoria Natural. 
25G. Secretaria de Rclacioues Exteriores. 
25Ga. Socicite I^conomique. 

NICARAGUA. 

Managua. 

258. Goverument of Nicaragua. 

MEXICO. 

Aguas Calientes. 

2G0. Institute of Science. 
Guadalajara. 

2G2. Institute of Science. 

2GG. Sociedad Medico-Earmaceutica Pablo Gutierrez. 
Mazatlan. 

270. Meteorological Observatory. 
Merida. 

210a. Ilegistro Civil del Estado Yucatan. 
Mexico. 

278. Asociacion Medica " Pedro Escoledo." [ij 

280. Chamber of Commerce. 

286. El Observador Medico. 

288. Escuela de las Minas. 

294. Geographical Exploring Commission. 

306. Secretaria de Hacienda y Crcdito Publico de los E. U. Mexi- 
canos. Departamento deBibliotccay Compilacion. [i] 

310. Sociedad rarmac6utica Mexicana. 

313. Sociedad Humboldt. (No longer exists.) 

323. University of Mexico. (Same as 285.) 
116 



. • LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 117 

Morelia. 

323a. El Monitor Medioo-Farmaceiitico 6 ludustrial. 

323c. Miiseo Miclioacimo. 
Puebla. • 

321. Catliolic College. 

32G. University. 
San Jacinto. 

32G(?. Esciiela Nacional de Agricultura y Veterinaria. 
Zacatecas. 

332. Observatorio Astron(Muico-MeteoroI6gico. 

WEST INDIES. 

BAKP.ADOS. 

Bridgetown. 

331. Barbados General Agricnltural Society. 

CUBA. 

Habana. 

312. Cronica Medico-Quirurgica de la Habana. 

313. Adniinistracion Genenil do Coinunicaciones do la Isla de 

Cuba. 

HAITI. 

Port-au-Prince. 

300. Societe de Sciences et de Geographic, [i] 

JAMAICA. 

Kingston. 

3G0«. Government House. (Botanical Department.) 

3G0(?. Jamaica Institute. 

3G0e. The Victoria Institute, [ij 

TIITNIDAU. 

Port of Spain. 

3GI:. Botanic Garden. 



AMERICA (SOUTH). 

ARGENTINE REPUBLIC. 

Buenos Aires. 

373. Biblioteca Pilblica. (Same as 371.) 

374. Circulo Medico Argeiitino. 

374a. Deijartmeut of Public iDstruction. 

374e. Tnstituto Agronomico j Veterinario. 

385a. Oficina tie Cauje Internacional tie Piiblicaciones. 

380. National College. 

386a. Eevista Medico-quirurgica. 

3S8c. Sisteiua de Medidas y Pesas de la Eepublica Argentina. 
Concepcion. 

402. National College. 
Cordoba. 

410. University. 
Parana. 

412. Bureau de Statistique Generale entre Rios. 
Santa Catalina. 

412/l lustituto Agronomico-Veterinario de la Provincia de 
Buenos Aires. 

BRAZIL,. 

BaMa. 

414. Gazeta Medica da Bahia. 
Rio Janeiro. 

426. Club de Engenliaria. 

BRITISH GUIANA. 

Berbice. 

400. Asylum Journal, 
Georgetown. 

407c. " Timebri " (A journal i)ub. by 467.) 

CHILE. 

Santiago. 

408. Anales de la Sociedad de Farmacia. 
473&. Comision Central Meteorologica. 

474. DeutscUer Wisseuscliaftlicber Vcrein. [i] 

475, El Piano TopograBco. (A section of 473.) 
490. Eevista Medica de Chile. 

118 



LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 119 

COLOMBIA. 

Bogota. 

502. Library Meteorological Office. Department of Agriculture. 
502c. Museo Nacioual. 
508. Soci6t6 Ecouomique. 

ECUADOR. 

Quito. 

530. University. 

PERU. 

Lima. 

535&. Academia Libre de Mediciua. 

53G. Ateneo de Lima. 

540. Escuela de Minas. 

54G. Sociedad Amantes do la Oiencia. 

548. Sociedad Union Fernaudina. 

URUGUAY. 

Montevideo. 

554. Department of tlie Interior. 

560. Public Library. 

563&. Universidad de Montevideo. 

VENEZUELi*:^, 

Caracas. 

504. Academia Venezolana. 
570. Museo Nacional. 



ASIA. 

CHINA. 

Pekin. 

582rt. American Mission College. 

582&. Imperial Eussian Observatory. 
Saigon. 

5SG. Societe des Etudes ludo-Chinoises de Saigon. 
Shanghai. 

592. Comx)aguie de Jesus. 

IXBIA. 

Allahabad. 

GOG. Government of the Northwestern Provinces. 
Bombay. 

G14. Bombay Natural History Society. 

G19. Government Central Museum, [ij (Now Victoria and Al- 
bert Museum.) 

G24. Inspector-General of Civil Hospitals. 

02G. Medico-Physical Society. 

G3Gc. Victoria Natural History Institute. 

G3'j. Under Secretary to the Government, Revenue, Finance, 
and General Departments. 
Calcutta. 

G38. Army Medical Department of India. 

C40. Calcutta Medical College. 

042. Department of Finance and Commerce of the Government 
of East India. 

644. His Highness the Viceroy of India. 

C45. Imperial Indian Museum. (Same as G49.) 

650. Inspector-General of Civil Hospitals. 

662. University of Calcutta, 
lahore. 

678. The Punjab Government. 
Madras. 

684. Government of Madras. 

684a. Inspector General of Civil Hospitals. 

688. Madras Medical College, [i] 

690. Presidency College. 
Poonah. 

695. Civil Engineering College. (Now College of Science.) 

120 



LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 121 

JAPAIST. 

Hakodate. 

708. Miisciiui of Natural Ilistory. 
Kioto. 

lOSa. Dosliisba School. 
Osaka. 

lOSaa. Daigakii Buuko. 
Sapporo. 

lOSb. Agricultural College. 

TOSc. llaitakushi Shiba Collection . 
Tokio. 

714. Chirikioku . (Meteorological and Trigonometrical Survey 
Department.) 

719. Department of Law, Science, and Literature in the Tokio 
Daigaku. (See 739.) 

721/i. Geograpliical Bureau. 

72Jj. Geological Society of Japan. 

72hi. Imperial Agricultural College. 

721.S'. Japanese Educational Society. 

722, Japanese Society of Heal tL. 

724. Meteorological Observatory, 

72G. Mining Office. Department of Public Works. 

728. Patent Office, 

738. Suisankwai. (Fishery Society'.) 

739. Tokio Daigaku, nowTeikoku-Daigaku (Imperial University), 

including College of Law (Hoka-Daigaku), College of 
Medicine (Ika-Daigaku), College of Engineering 
(Koka-Daigaku), College of Literature (Buuka- 
Daigaku), College of Science (Eika-Daigaku). 
Yokohama. 

743. Deutsche Gesellschaft fiir ^aturwissenschaffc und Heilkunde. 
(Same as 721.) 

PIIILIPPIXK IST^ANDS. 

Manila. 

7G8. Koyal and Pontitical University of St, Thomas, 



AUSTRALASIA. 

AUSTKALIA. 

NE^V SOUTH "WALES. 

Sydney. 

783. Australian Medical Gazette. 

784. Board of Technical Education. 
787. Department of Public Instruction. 
800. Mechanics' School of Arts. 

802. Natural History Society. 

802&. New South Wales Zoological Society. (3 O'Connell street.) 

806. State Children's Eelief Department. ■ 

807. Sydney College Library. (Does not exist.) 

810. Technological, Industrial, and Sanitary Museum of -New 
South Wales. 

QUEENSLAND. 

Brisbane. 

818. Geographical Society of Australia, Queensland Branch. 

SOUTH AUSTRALIA. 

Adelaide. 

So6. Adelaide Philosophical Society. 

844. Public Library, Museum, and Art Gallery of South Aus- 
tralia, [i] 

VICTORIA. 

Collingwood. 

8G5. Field Naturalists' Club of Victoria. (Does not exist.) 
Melbourne. 

870. The Australian Wine Association of Victoria. 

872. Chamber of Commerce. 

872a. Chamber of Manufactures. 

882. Geological Society of Australasia, [ij (17 Queen street.) 

894. Osmond College. 

901. Eoyal Philosophical Society of Victoria. (Amalgamated 
with the Eoyal Society of Victoria.) 

908. South Melbourne Mechanics' Institute. 

910. Victoria Institute. 

910«. The Vigueron. 

122 



LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 123 

NEW ZEALAND. 

Christchurch. 

022. Oauterbiiry Agricultural College. 
924. Christchurch Public Library. 

Invercargill. 

937. Southland Institute. 
Nelson. 

939. Xeisou Association for the Promotion of Science and Indus- 
try. (Does not exist.) 

912. Nelson Philosophical Society, [i] 
Wellington. 

9C0. Minister of Mines. 

90G. General Assembly Library. 

9G7rt. Registrar-General of New Zealand. 

QGlh. Wellington and Wairarapa District Acclimatization Soci- 
ety. 

POLYNESIA. 

SANDWICH ISLANDS. 

Honolulu. 

97G. Scientific Society. (Dead.) 
97Ga. Surveyor-General's Office, 



EUROPE. 

AUSTIlIA-nUNGAIlY. 

Agram [Zagreb] (Croatia). 

979. Haudels- uiid Gewerbe-Kammer fiir Kroatien. (Same as 
993.) 

98G. Miueralogical and Geological Museum. 

990. Societe d'Histoire Natnrelle Create a Zagreb. 

993. TrgovaCko Obrtnicka Komora (Chamber of Commerce). 
Budapest {Hungary). 

1033rt. K. Ungar. Ministeriiim l"llr Kultus und Uuterriclit. 
• 1034. Uiigarische Eevue. 

1051. Pestvaros Statisztikai Hivatal. (Same as 1007.) 

1057. Societe Hongroise de Gcograpbie. (Same as 1037.) 

10G7. Commission Europeenne du Danube. (Same as 71G4c. in 
Galacz, lioumania.) 
Gratz (Styria). 

1090. Steiermiirkisches LandwirthscUaftlicbes Joauueum. 
Hall {Styria). 

1094. Verein zur Geologischen Diirchforschung. 
Hereny {Hungary). 

1094(?. Astro-pbysikalisches Observatorium. [i] 
Kalocsa (Hungary). 

1107. Erzbiscbof Haj^nald's Observatorium. 
Kloster-Neuburg (Austria). 

1132. K. K. CbemischPbysioIogisclieVersucbs Station fiir Wein 
und Obstbau. 
Krakau (Oalicia). 

1137. Galiziscber Fischerei- Verein. (Dissolved.) 
Kronstadt (Trmisylvania). 

1146. Die Handels-und Gewerbekammer in Kronstadt. 
Laibach (Illyria). 

1 155. Landes-Musoum. Should be Krainsches Landesmuseum 
" Eudolflnum." 
Lobositz (Bohemia). 

1176. Agricultural Station. 
Pola (Illyria). 

1188. Observatory. 

194 



LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 125 

Prag {Bohemia). 

1218. Prag Library. 

1222. Statistisclic Commission. 
Trent (Tyrol). 

1251. Societa degli Alpinisti Trideutiiii. Headquarters estab- 
lished ill Eovereto for 1887 and 18S8. 
Trieste {lUi/ria). 

12G0. Zeitscbriffc fiir die gesammte Oniitbologie. 

12G2. Gazetta del Tribnuale. 
Wien {Austria). 

1280. Allgemeiue Oesterr. Gericbtliclie Zeitung. 

1290. Congres International d'Hygienc et de Demograpbie. 

1293. Entomologischer Verein. (Does not exist.) 

12d7c. Jalirbiicber fiir Psycbiatrie. 

1298. Juridical Society. 

1337. K. K. Katurbistoriscbes Ilofmusoum, Geologiscli-PaUioa* 
tologisclie Abtbeiluug. 

13C0. K. K. Staats-Gewerbe-Scbule. 

137G. Militair-wisseuscbaftlicber Yerein. 

1382. Oesterreicbiscber Alpen- Verein. 

1381. Oester. Berg.-und Hiittenmiinuiscbe Zeitung. 

1381c. Oesterreicbiscber Fiscberei- Verein. 

1392. K. K Patent-Amt. (Privilegien-Departemeut des K. K. 
Handels-Miuisteriums.) 

1398. Eedaktion: Illustr. Zeitscbrift "Amerika." 

1410. Eedaktion der Statistiscben Monatsscbrift. 

143G. Wiener Entomologiscbe Zeitscbrift. 

1138, Wiener Pudagogiscbe Gesellscbaft. 

BELGIUM. 

Arlon. 

1474. Institut Arcbeologique de Luxembourg. 
Bruxelles {Brussels). 

1497. Association Internationale pour I'exploration et la civilisa- 
tion de I'Afrtque Centrale. (Now called iStat Inde- 
pendent du Congo. Departemeut de I'Interieur.) 

1409. Atbeuee Beige. (No longer issued.) 

1518. Commission pour la Publication des anciennes Lois et Or- 
don nances de la Belgique. 

1520. Congres International Pbarmaceutique. 

1527. Institut Geograpbique de Bruxelles. (Now Institut Na- 

tional de Geograpbie.) [i] 

1528. Jardin botanique do I'l^tat. 

1538. Musee Eoyal de I'lndustrie. (Patent Office.^ 
1544. Societe Beige d'lillectriciens. 
15G2. Societe PaleoutolOgique. 
1574. Societe Eoyale des Sciences. 



126 LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 

Dinant. 

1585c. Societ6 des Xaturalistes Dinantais. 
Ejighien. 

158G. Cercle Archeologique. 
Forest. 

loSGh. Agricultural and Horticultural Uniou. 
Gand (Ghent). 

1592. Kevue de I'Horticulturo Beige et I^trangere. 

1506. Societ6 de Medeeine Mentale de Beige. 
Gembloux. 

1G04. Agricultural School. 
Hasselt. 

1G05, Socio to des Meloptiiles. 
L-i^ge. 

IGIO. Academic Eoyale. 

1G20. Observatoire. 
Louvain. 

1641. Atheuee Oriental. 

1616. Societe des Lettres et des Sciences. 
Melle [near Ghent). 

1655. Museum Commercial et Industriel. (Is part of 1653, which 
also has an Ethnog. or Geog. Museum, and a Museum 
of Natural History.) 
Mons. 

1660. L'Ecole de Flndustrie et des Mines. 
St.-Nicolas. 

1676. Administration Communale. 
Termonde. 

1680. Bibliotheque Publique de la Ville de Termonde. 

DENMARK. 

Kjobenhavn {GopeHhagen). 

1734. " Hygiea." 

1752. Kongelige Sundheds-Kollegium. 

1756. Mediciualberetniug for Kongeriget Daumark. 

1765. Natnrhistorisk Tidsskrift. (Discontinued.) 

1768. Eoyal Museum of Ethnography. 

1770. Tidsskrift for Scivesen. 

1774. Topographical Bureau. 
• nS2Jc. Zoologisk Have. 
Viborg. 

1786. Nordisk Tidsskrift for Fiskeri. 

FRAXCE. 

Aleneon. 

1806. Societe Philologique. 
AUier. 

1807. Societe des Sciences Medicales de Grannat. (Same as 2127.) 



LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 127 

Annecy. 

1S3G. Musce d'Annecy. 
Avignon. 

1872. Acaddmie do Nauchuse. 
Bayeux {Calvados). 

1890. Societe d'Horticulture et de Botaiiique da Centre de la 
I^ormandie. 
Biarritz. 

1918. Biarritz-Association. Societ6 des Sciences, Lettres et Arts. 
Bordeaux. 

1930. Commission Meteorologiqiie de la Giroude. 

1944. Societe d'Apiculture. 

19G3. Societe de Mcdeciue de Bordeaux. (Same as 19G5.) 

19G7. Societe Medico-CLirurgicale des Ilopitaux et Hospices de 
Bordeaux. (Same as 1965.) 
Bourges. 

1988. Societe d'Horticulture et Viticulture du Cher. 
Caen. 

2001. Association d' Agriculture et d'Horticulture des Instituts 
de la Zone Campaudre-Valcongraiu. (Dissolved.) 

2014. Soci6te Fran^aise d'Arcb6ologie pour la Conservation et 
la Description des Monuments Historiques. (Same as 
2072.) 
Cannes. 

2024. L'Academie N"ationale des Sciences. (Dissolved.) 
Clermont-Ferrand. 

20GG. Societe d'lilmulation de FAuvergne. 
Compiegne. 

2072. Societe Fran9aise d'Archeologie pour la Conservation et la 
Description des Monuments Historiques. [i] 
Digne. 

2080. Societe Scientifique et Litteraire des Basses-Alpes. [ij 
Dijon. 

208G, Comite Central d'Agriculture de la Cote-d'Or. 
Fontainebleau. 

2124. :Scole d'Application de I'Artillerie et du Genie, [i] 
La Kochelle. 

2148. Societd des Sciences Naturelles. 
Le Havre {l^eine-Infcrieure). 

2103. (Correct title.) Societe des Sciences et Arts Agricoles et 
Horticoles du Havre. 
Le Mans. 

2174. Societe Philotechnique du Maine. 
Lille. 

2178. Bulletin Scientifique, Departement du i^ord. 

2198. Societe ludustrielle du Nord de la France. 



128 LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 

Lisieux. 

2210. Society d'Emulation de Lisieux. 
Lyon. 

2222. Archives de I'Antliropologie Crimiiielle ct des Sciences 
• Penales. 

222G. Chambre de Commerce. 

2227. Commission Ilydrometrique de Lyon. (Same as 2229.) 

2230. Facultd de Mcdecino et dePharmacie de l'Universit6. 

223L Musee Guimet. (Xow in Paris, 2G2G.) 

2253. Societe d'l5tudes Scientifiqiies. (Was merged into Soc. 
2259 in 1885.) 
Mantes. 

2270. Socidte Agricole et Horticole de I'Arrondissement de 
Mantes. 
Harseilles. 

2278. Association Horticole Marseillaise. 

2290. Societe d'liltude des Sciences Naturelles. 
Monnaie. 

2324. Societe des Antiquaires. 
Montpellier. 

233G. Agricultural School. 

2351. Societe de Geographie. (Same as 2355.) 
Nantes. 

2390ff. Comice Agricole Central du Departement de la Loire- 
Inferieure. » 

2-402. Societe de Geographie Co-mmerciale de Nantes, [i] 
Nice. 

2408. Observatory. 
Nimes. 

2418. Agricultural Station. 

2421. (Correct title.) Society d'Agriculture du Gard. 
Nozay. 

2428. National School of Agriculture. 
Paris. 

2452. Annales d'Hygiene ct de Medecine L6gale. 

24526'. Annales M^dico-psycologiques. 

24G2. Annales Tel6graphiques. 

24G5f7. Archives de Neurologie. 

24GG. Archives Slaves de Biologic, [i] 

24GG/i. Archives de la Tocologie. 

2472. Association Scientifique de France, [i] 

2501. Bureau International desPoids etMesures. (Is in Sevres.) 

2502. Chambre des Deputes. 

2502&. Chambre des Ing6nieurs T^'pographiques. [i] 
2510. Comptoir Gdologique de Paris. (15 Eue de Tournon). 
251G. Depot des Cartes et Plans de la Marine. (Now called 
Service Ilydrographique.) 



LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 129 

Paris — Continued. 

2520. EcoIg des Sciences Politiques. 
2538. ficole Superieure de riiarmacie. 
2538c. ''Euceplifilc." 

2542. Gazette G«}ograpliiqae et Exploration. Revue Hebdoma- 

daire. 

2543. (Full title.) Gazette Hebdomadaire do Modeciue et de 

Cliirurgie. 
2540. Inforinateur Commercial. 
2502. Journal de L' Anatomic et de La Pliysiologie. 
2500, Journal des Debats. • 
2572. Journal de Micographie. 

2582. '' L'Astrouomie." 
2582rt. L'Electricien. 

2583. " L'Exploration." (Same as 2542.) 
2580. " La France." 

2590rt. La Sorbonne. (Universit(\) . 

2592. Le Figaro Illustre. 

2592&. Le Jardiu. Journal d'UorticuUurc Geuerale. [i] 

2590. "LeKaturaliste." 

2G23c. Moniteur ludustriel. 

2024. Moniteur Scieutifique Quesueville. [ij 

2020. Musee Guimet, Ministere do I'lustructiou, etc. [i] 

2032. IsTational Agricultural Station. 

2032c. Nouvelles Archives d'Obstetrique et de Gynecologie. 

2030. Musee Pedagogiqua et Bibliotlieque Ceutrale de I'lnstruc- 

tiou Primaire. 
203Gc. Poljbiblion : Revue Bibliographique Universelle. [i] 
2050. Revue Critique. 

2052. Revue Fran^aise de I'fitranger et des Colonies. 
2GG0rt. Revue Internationale de I'lillectricitc. 
2GGod. Revue Medicale. 
2000. Revue de Medecine. 
2008. Revue Philosopliique de France. 
2074. Service Hydrometrique du Bassin de la Seine. 
2078. Societe Academique Indo-Cliinoise. 
2700. Societe contre I'Abus du Tabac. [ij (liue Jacob, 38.) 
2715. Societe d'Etlinologio. (Dissolved.) 

2728. Societe Fran^aise de Temperance. 

2729. (Full title.) Societe Franklin pour la Propagation des 

Bibliotheques Populaires. 

2730. Societe Generale des Prisons. 

2740. Sociedad Latino-Americana Biblioteca Bolivar. 

2754. Societe Medico-Psychologique. 

2758. Societe Mycologique de France, [i] 

278 L Societe de Typograpliie. (Same as 25026.) 

2783/i. Therapeutique coutemporaine. 

H. Mis. 170 9 



130 LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 

Pau. 

2784. Socictc d'^ducation et d'lnstruction Populaires des Basses, 
Pyrenees. 
Pic-du-Midi. 

2795. Observatoire. (Same as 1879.) 
Eouen. 

2850. Conseil Central d'Hygiene Piibliqiie et de Saliibrit^i. 
Saint-Cyr. 

2875. (Correct title :) Ecole Speciale Militaire. 
Saint-Germain-en-Laye [Seine-cf- Oisc). 

2884. Musee de St.-Germaiii. 

288G. Societe Malacologique do France. 
Sevres. 

2920. Bureau International des Poids et Mesures. 
Toulouse. 

2931a. Ecole Preparatoire de M6decine. 

2931c. Laboratoire d'Antliropologie. 

2932. " Mat6riaux pour I'llistoirc Primitive et Naturelle do 
rHomme.'' [ij. (A monthly review published bj" 2931c.) 

2937. (Correct title.) Soci6t6 Acaddmique Franco-Hispano Por- 
tugaise. 
Tours. 

2952. Observatoire. 

2957. Soci6t6 Fran^aise d'Archeologie pour la Conservation et 
la Description des Monuments Historiques. (Same- 
as 2072.) 
Versailles. 

29 S2. Observatoire. 

GERMANY. 

Altenburg {Saxc Wiemar). 

3014. Agricultural Academy. 

3014a. Agricultural Station. 
Altona {Prussia). 

3022. Kouigl. Kommerz-Kollegium. 
Apolda {Saxe Wiemar). 

3030. Grossherzogliche Zimmerman's Realschule. 
Aschaffenburg {Bavaria). 

3041. (Correct title.) Konigliche Bayerische Forstlehranstalt. 
Augsburg {Bavaria). 

3043. Deutscher Apotheker-Verein. (Same as 4941.) 
Berlin {Prussia). 

3072. Academia Litterarum Regiae Borussicae. 

3075. Allgemeine Deutsche Oruithologische Gesellschaft. [i] 

3125. (Correct title.) Central-Direction der Monumente Ger- 
manice. 



LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 131 

Berlin — Contimic'l. 

;il39a. (Jominissiou fiir die Beobaclitiiag dcs Veiius-Darcligaugs. 

(A. Auwers, President.) 
3140 Committee of tlie Iiiternatloual Geological Congress. 
3103 Deutsche Oruitliologisclie Gcsellscliaft. (Same as 307o.) 
3171. Deutsche Zoologische Gesellschaft. (Dissolved.) 
3105. Deutscher Verein zur Forderung von Lnftscliitifabrt. fi] 
3237* norticnltur-Gesellschaft. (Same as 3705.) 
331l'. (Correct title.) Km.igliclies [Preussisclies] Geoiliitiscbes 
Institut [Central- Bureau der Internationaleu Lrd- 

messung]. ^ t, i- 

3371. Kouigliches Eecheuinstitut zur Herausgabe des Berliner 

Astronomisclien Jabrbuclies. 
337G. Laud Improvement Survey. 
337Ga. Landwirthscliaftliclier Club. 
3473. (Correct title.) Kedaktion : ^' Berliner Astronomiscbes 

Jabrbucb." 
348kr. lledaktion: "Berliner Presse." 
3482. Eedaktion: « Berliner Tagsblatt." 
3497/;. Kedaktion der Entomologiscbeu Nacbricbten. 
3493. Eedaktion : " Der Export." 
3540. Kedaktion: " Gartenflora." 
3558. Kedaktion: " ludustrie-Blatter." [i] 
3G09. Kedaktion : " Der :t<[aturforscber." (Same as 50G0). 
36I2'. Kedaktion: " Naturwisseuscbaftlicbe Kundscbau." 
3G28. Kedaktion :" Der Sammler." [i.] 
3G58 Kedaktion: " Zeitscbrift fiir Psycbiatrie." 
3GG0. Kedaktion: Zeitscbrift fiir wisseuscbaftlicbe Landwu'tb- 

scbaft. 
3G91. Verein fiir die Deutsche Statistik. (Dissolved.) 
3704. Verein fiir Psychiatric. 
Bonn {Prussia). 

3728. Bergiscber Gescbichts-Vereiu. 

3739. :Naturwissenschaftlicher Vereiu. (Same as 3737 ) 

Brandenburg (Prussia). 

3758. Botaniscber Verein. 

Braunschweig (Brunswick). 

37G6. BranuschweigerThierschutz-Verein. 

37G9. Deutsche Oruithologiscbe Gesellschaft. (Has transferred 

its library to 3075 in Berlin.) 
3776. Herzogliche Technische Hocbschule. 

Bremen (Germany). 

3785. Bibliothek des Museums. (Same as 08OI.; 

Breslau {Prussia). 

3833f Vereiu Deutscher Studeuteu. 



132 LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 

Danzig {Pnissia). 

3870. AVest-Preiissiscber BotanischZoologischer Verein. 
3870(?. West-Preiissischer Fischerei- Verein. 
3872. West-Preussisclies Provinzial-Museum. 
Darmstadt {Hesse). 

3875. (Fall name.) Grosslierzogliche Centralstello filr die Go- 

werbe nud den Landesgewerbverein. 
3885. GrossUerzoglicb-Uessisclier Gewerbeverein. , (Same as 

3875.) 
3890. Grossljerzoglichcs Miuisterium des lunern. Abtheilung 

fiir (ifFeutlicbe Gesundlieitsi»Qege. 
3890c. Grosslierzogliches Miuisterium des Inuern uudder Justiz. 
Donaueschingen {Baden). 

3901. Grosslierzoglicbe Progymnasium. 
Dresden {Saxony). 

3911. Afrikauisclie Gesellscbaft. (Same as 3071 in Berlin.) 
3920. Eutomologisclier Vereiif Iris." [i] 
' 3927. Geseilscbaft fiir Botauik iind Zoologie. (Dissolved.) 

3938. Koniglicbes Matbematiscb-Pbysikaliscbes lustitut. 

3939. Koniglicbes Mineralogiscbund Naturbistoriscbcs Museum. 

(Correct name : Koniglicbes Mineralogiscb-Geologiscb 
und Priihistoriscbes Museum.) 
3972. Kedaktion : " Das Scbifif." [ij 
3971. Bedaktion : "Hedwigia.-' 
Eberswalde ( Prufssia). 

399G. Koniglicbe Forst-akademie. (Same as 48G7, Neustadt- 
Eberswalde. 
Eldena (Prussia). 

4010. Landwirtbscbaftsscbule. 
Frankfurt-am-Main ( Germany). 

4015. Allgemeiue Deutscbe Patent- und Musterscbutz-Ausstel- 
lung. (Does not exist.) 
Frankfurt-an-der-Oder ( Germany). 

4088. ISTaturwissenscbaftlicber Yerein des Begierungs-Bezirkes 

Frankfurt a. O. 
4086^7. Redaktion der "Mouatl. Mittbeilungen." (Dr. E. Hutb.) 
Freiburg-im-Breisgau ( Baden). 

4103. Geseilscbaft zur Befiirderung der Naturwissenscbaften. 
(Same as 4107.) 
Friesdorf. 

4122. Landwirtbscbaftlicbe Scbule. 
Gnadau {Prussia). 

4145a. Unitats-Bucbbandluug. 
4140. Universitiit. 
Gottingen {Prussia). 

4:108. Geologiscbes Museum der KcinigUcbeu Uuiversitiit. 



LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 133 

Halle-an-der-Saale (rnis.'^ia). 

4248. Kouigliclies Sachsische.s .Meteorologisclies Inst i tut. (Same 

as 3849 in Chemnitz.) 
4250. Liebig's Aiinalcu der Chemie. 

4257. Politiscli-Oekonomi.selies Seminar, (('orrect name: Staats- 
■wissenscbaftliclics Seminar.) 
Hamburg {Germany). 

4270. Alsterdorf Institute for Demented Children. 
4292. Uandelsstatistisches Bureau. 

429C. Jabrbucli der TIainburgischen Wisscnschaftlicheu Anstal- 
ten. 

4299. Museum Godeti'roy. (Ceased to exist July 14, 188G.) 

4300. PhysikaliscUes Staats Laboratorium. 
4300a. Eedaktion: "Aus Allen Welttheileu." 

4300^. Eedaktion der " Hamburgisclieu Borsen-IIalle." 
4315. Verein filr Handelsfreihcit. (Xo longer exists.) 
4322. Zoologische Gesellschaft. 
Hanau {Hesse). 

4329. (Correct name.) AVetterauische Gesellschaft fiir die ge- 

sammte Naturkunde. 
Hannover {Prussia). 

4331. Centralblatt fiir Elektrotechnik. 

4330. Gesammt-Vereiu der Deutscben Gescbichts- und Alter- 

thunis-Yereine. 

4337. Gesellschaft fiir iiltero Deutsche Geschicbtskunde. (Same 
as 3125 in Berlin.) 
Heidelberg {Baden). 

4304. " Friend of the Insane." 

4304c. Gymnasium. 
Jena {^axo Wiema^^). 

4430. Zoologische Jabrbiicber. 
Karlsruhe {Baden). 

4418. Grosslierzoglicli-Badiscbes Ministerium des Inuern. 

4451. Grossberzoglicb-Badisches Staats-Miuisterium. 

4155. (Correct name.) Grosslierzoglich Badisches Statistiscbes 
Bureau. 

4477. Zeitschriftfiir WisseuchaaiicheGeograpbie. (Sameas5074 
in Weimar.) 
Kassel {Prussia). 

4180. Centralblatt fiir Bacteriologie und Tarasiteukunde. [i] 

4487. Paleoutographica. (Same as 50206 in Stuttgart.) 
Kbln {Prussia). 

4510. " Gaea, Katur und Leben." 

4542. Historischer Verein fiir den Ij^iederrhein. 

4517rt. Seleuographiscbes Observatorium. 

4548. <'Sirius." 



134 LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 

Konigsberg {Prussia). 

4550. Beitnige zur Kunde der inclogermanischen Spraclien. 
Landshut {Bavaria). 

4578. Miiieralogiscbcr Verein. 
Leipzig {Saxo7iy). 

4582. Auualeu der Phj'sik und Chemie. 

4594. Comenius Stiftiing. 

4596. Deutsche Mouatssclirift fiir Zalinbcilkunde (the organ of 
soc. 4591). 

4G10. Intelligeazblatt zu den JahrbiicUern der in- nnd ausliin- 
discbeu gcsammteuMedicin. 

4G10c. Journal fiir Praktiscbe Cbemie. 

4G30. Eatb der Stadt Leipzig. 

4633. Kedali^tion : ^'Annalen der Cbemie und Pbariuacie." 
(Same as 4250 in Halle.) 

4644. Redaktiou: Centralblatt fiir Nervenbeilkunde. 

4649. Eedaktion : " Gaea, Natur und Leben." (Same as 4540 
in Koln.) 

4652. Eedaktiou: " Jabrbiicber fiir Klassisclie Pbilologie." 

4073. Redaktiou : " Zeitscbrift fiir wissenscbaftlicbe Zoologie." 
(Same as 4199 in Gottiugen.) 

4674. Ebeiniscbes Museum fiir Pbilologie. 
Liineburg {Prussia). 

4719. Museum- Verein. (Its library bas been united witb that of 
4721.) 
Magdeburg {Prussia). 

4736. Wetterwarte der Magdeburgiscben Zeituug. 
Marburg {Prussia). 

4744. Jabresbericbteiiber die Fortscbritte der reinen Cbemie. 

4745a. Naturforscbeude Gesellscbaft. 
Meissen {Saxony). 

4770. Fiirsten- und Landesscbule St. Afra in Meissen. 
Munchen {Bavaria). 

4796. Bayeriscber Fiscberei- Verein. 

4797c. Deutscber und Oesterreicbiscber Allien- Verein. 

4798. Europiliseher Botaniscber Tauscbverein. 

4811. (Correct name.) Koniglicb-Baicriscbe Meteorologiscbo 
Centralstation. 

4844. Kedaktion : " Der Gericbtsaal." 
Munster {Prussia). 

4856. Poyal Theological and Philosophical Academy. 
NUrnberg {Bavaria). 

4872. Friedricb's Bliitter fiir Gericbtlicbe Mediciu. 

4880. Verein fiir Gescliicbte der Stadt Niirnberg. 
Ober-Labnstein {Prjissia). 

'iSSOd. Lahnsteiner Alterthumsvereiu. 



LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 135 

Poppelsdorf [rn(ssi((). 

4900. Kouiglichc Lautlwirthscbaftlicbe Akatlemie. 
Potsdam ( Prussia). 

4914. Ptcilaktioii: "Alioi." [i] 
Kegensburg {Bavaria). 

4932. Naturwissenscbaftlicber Verein. 

4933. Zoologiscb-Miueralogiscber Vereiu. (Satno as 4932.) 
Rostock {Germany). 

4940. Laudwirtbscbaftlicbe Versucbs-Station. 

4941. Deutscber Apotbeker- Vereiu. [i] 
Riifach {Bavaria). 

4944. Agricultural Station. 
Sondershausen {^chivartzhnrij-Sondcrsliausen). 

4953. Botauiscber Vereiu fiir das Nordlicbe TliUriugeu. (Cor- 

rect name: Tbiiriugiscbe Botaniscbc Gesellscbaft 
> " Irmiscbia.'') 

4954. Deutscbe Botauiscbe Mouatsscbrift. 
Stettin {Prussia). 

49C8. Entomologiscbe Zeitung. 

4972. Vereiu fiir Erdkuude. 
Strassburg {Prussia). 

4984. Societ6 Veteriuaire d'Alsace-Lorraiue. 
Stuttgart ( Wilrtcmhcrfj). 

4991. Antbropologiscbe Gesellscbaft. (Full uanie: Gesellscbaft 
fiir Autbropologie, Etbnograpbie und Altertbums- 
kuude.) 

5020Z>. " Pabeoutograpbica." 

5034. Verein fiir Miueralogie, Geologic und Palilontologie. 

5048. Wiirtenibergiscber Vereiu fiir Ilandels-Geograpbie. 
Tiibingen {Wilrtemherg). 

5052. Botauiscbes lustitut. 

5060. " Der Naturforscber." [i] 
Ulm {Wiirtcmherg). 

5066. Verein fiir Matbematik und Naturwissenscbaften. 
Weihenstephan {Bavaria) . 

5068. (See 4115, Freising.) 
Weimar {Sajce Wieynar). 

5072. Gewerbekammer fiir das Grossberzogtbuin Sacbsen-Wei- 
mar-Eisenacb. 

5074. Zeitscbrift fiir wisseuscbaftlicbe Geograpliie. 
Wiesbaden {Prussia). 

5080. Cbemiscbes Laboratoriuui von I*rof. Dr. R, Fasenius. 

5089. Zeitscbrift fiir Aualytiscbe Cbemie. [i| (Publisbed by 
5080.) 
Wiirzburg {Bavaria). 

5098. Mediciniscbe Klinik zu Wiirzburg. 



136 LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 

GREAT KEITAIN. 

Barrow-in-Furness. {Lancashire). 

5123f?. Free Public Library. 
Bath. 

5124. Agricultural Society. (Same as 5125.) 

5132. Journal of Microscopy aud Natural Sciences. The Jour- 
nal of the Postal Microscopical Society. 
Birmingham. 

5142. Jjirmiughaui Philosophical Society. 

5158. "The Post." 
Buckhurst Hill. 

51G8. Essex Field Club, [i] 
Camborne. 

5170. Mining Association and Institute of Cornwall, [i] 
Cambridge. 

5184. Cambridge Scientific Instrumeut Company. 

5190. Morphological Laboratory, New Museum, [iij 

5198. Syndics of the Cambridge Press. 
Cheltenham. 

5214. Geological Eecord. 
Chesterfield. 

5219. (Now called) Chesterfield and Midland Counties' lustita- 
tiou of Engineers. 
Coteswold. 

5223. Coteswold Naturalists' Field Club. (Same as 52066?, in 
Gloucester.) 
Downton. 

5238. Wilts aud Hants Agricultural College. 
Duffield, 

5240. ''Reliquary." 
Dumbarton. 

5241. Pree Public Library. (Same as GlOOh, in Dumbarton, Scot- 

land.) 
Epping. 

5249. The Epping Forest and County of Sussex Naturalists' 
Field Club. (Same as 5168 in Buckhurst Hill.) 
Folkestone. 

5265a.. Free Public Library. 

5266. Natural History Society. 
Gloucester. 

5366fL Coteswold Naturalists' Field Club, [i] 
Greenwich. 

5268. " Observatory." 
Kew. 

5292. lloyal Herbarium. 

5293. Kew Observatory. (Same as 5910, in Richmond, Surrey.) 



LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 137 

Leyton. 

5318. "The British Mail." 

Liverpool. 

5322. " Daily Courier." 
5322a. " Daily Mercury." 
5342. Liverpool Journal of Commerce. 
53457v-. Liverpool Welsh :N'ational Society. _ 
534G. Mayer Museum. 
London. 

53G8. American Colonization Company. 

5370. Anglo-American Agency. 

5383a. "Asclepiad." 

53S4. Association of American Thysicians in Great Britain. 

(Dr. C. J. Fowler, Hon. Sec'y, 13 Wye st., S. W.) 
5385. Astronomical Eegister. (Discontinued.) 
539G. Botanical Gazette. 
549Grt. Botanical Journal. 
5397rt. "Brain." 

5398. British and Foreign Bible Society. 
5410. British Medico-Psychological Association. 
5438. Commercial Gazette. 
5444. "Cosmos." 
544G. Crystallogical Society. 
5448. " Daily Telegraph." 
5448a. Department of Practical Art. 
5490. General Board of Lunacy. (Same as 544L) 
5500. Gresham Angling Society. 
5504. Guildhall Library. (Same as 5555.) 
550G. Hampstead Public Library. 
5508. Harlein Society. 
5528. Institute of Bankers. 
5538. International Health Exhibition Library. 
5538a. International Meteorological Committee. 
5542. "Ironmonger." (42 Cannon street.) 
5542&. Journal of Mental Science. 

5545. (:N'ow called) Journal of Science and Annals of Astron- 
omy, Biology, Geology, Industrial Arts, Manufactures, 
and Technology. 
55G4. Lincoln's Inn Library. 
5574. London Chamber of Commerce. 
557G. " Loudon Graphic." 
5582. London Law Magazine and Review. 
5592. " Machinery Market." 
5593e. " Mechanical Progress." 
5594. Medical and Chirurgical Society. 
559G. "Medical Record." 



138 LIST OF FOREIGN COREESPONDENTS. 

London — Con tin aed . 

5599. "Medical Times and Gazette." (Discontinued.) 

5600. "Meteorological Magazine." (02 Camden Square, N.W.) [i] 
5G01. Meteorological Office, fiii] 

5G18. Xatioual Indian Association in aid of Social Progress 

and Female Education in India. 
5G22, Xeuiological Society of London. 
5024. ITortli Eiding of Yorksliire Eecord Society, [ij 
5036. " Tall MallOazette." 
5042. " riiilosophical JMagaziue," 
5648, "Quarterly Journal of Microscopical Science." 
5692. Royal School of Mines and Xormal Schools of Science. 
5705&. " Sanitary- Kecord," 
5700. " Saturday Review." 
5707«. Science Society of King's College. 
5707&. " Scientific Xews." [i] 
5708. " Scientific Roll." 
5710. Short-hand Writers' Association. 
5712. Society for Study and Care of Inebriety. 
5720. Society for Psychical Research. 
5732. Society of Science, Letters, and Art of London. 
5738. "Standard." 
5738a. Stationary Office. 
5744. The Agent General for Tasmania. 
5745«. The Ballad Society. 
5746. " The Daily Chronicle." 
5702. " The Globe." 
5703«. " The Insurance Spectator." 
5704.- " The Iron and Coal Trades' Review." 
5704c. "The Jurist." 
5700. " The Miller." 
5700«,. " The Practitioner." 

5781«. " Warehouse and Drapers' Trade Journal." [i] 
5781&. Wandsworth Public Library. 

5782. " Westminster Review." 

5783. Willoughby Society for the Reprinting of Scarce Orni- 

thological Works. (Dissolved in 1880.) 
5787. Zoological Record Association. (Dissolved.) 
Lyme Regis (Dorset). 

5794. Rousden Observatory. 
Macclesfield. 

5795. Macclesfield Society for Acquiring Useful Knowledge. 

(Now called Macclesfield Scientific Association.) 
Manchester. 

5800. Field Naturalist and Scientific Student. 

5802. Lancashire and Cheshire Antiquarian Society. (Care of 

George 0. Yates, Salford, Manchester.) 



LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 139 

Manchester — Continued. 

5^500. Maucliester Association of Eini)loyeivs, Foremen, and 

Draughtsmen. 
o80G/>. Manchester City Xews. 
5808. Manchester Gcog-rapliical Society. 
5808&. Manchester Grammar Scliool Library. 

5814. Manchester New College. 

5814&, Manchester Technical School Library. 

5815. Numismatic Society. (Dissolved.) 
5817^. Society of Chemical Industry. 
5818. "The Guardian." 

Plymouth. 

5898. Marine Biological Association. 
Redruth. 

5907. The Mining Association and Institute of Cornwall. (Same 
as 5170, in Camborne.) 
Richmond {Surrey). 

5910. Kew Observatory, [iii] 
Southport. 

5941. Free Pnblic Library. (Called also Atkinson Free Library.) 
Shrewsbury. 

5944. Free Library. 
Woolhope. 

5980. Woolhope Naturalists' Field Club. 

IRELAND. 

Dublin. 

G018. Board of Lunacy Commissioners for Ireland. 

G033. French College. 

G034. General Register Ofiice. 

G036. Historical and Arch;eological A..ssociation. 

G044. "Irish Law Times." 

G045. Irish Medical Association. (Dissolved.) 

G048. King and Queen's College of Physicians, [i] 

G050. Lord Mayor. 

G072. Science and Art Museum. 

SCOTLAXD. 

Aberdeen. 

G09G. Public Library. 
Banff. 

GIOO. Banffshire Field Club. 
Dumbarton. 

GlOOrf. Free Public Library, [ij 
Edinburgh. 

611G. Challenger Expedition Office. 

G125. Edinburgh Watt Institution and School of Arts. (Now 
called Heriot Watt College.) 



140 LIST OF FOREIGX CORRESPONDENTS. 

Edinburgh — Continued. 

G13S. Journal of Anatomy. 

C138c. Journal of Jurisprudence antl Scottish Law Magazine. 

G140, Philosophical Institute. 

GIGG. Scottish Meteorological Office. 

GL73. University Fleming'. (Defunct.) 
Glasgow. 

G179. Anderson's College. (Now called Glasgow and West of 
Scotland Technical College.) 

G182. Athentcum. 

6i82d. City Chamberlain's Office, [i] 

G18G. Glasgow Herald. 

G192. Lord Prevost, Glasgow. 

G200 Scottish Law Keview. 
Kirkcudbright. 

G204:. Museum c-md Natural History Society. 

^VALES. 

Aberystwith. 

G21G. University College. 
Bangor. 

G21Grt. University College. 
Cardiff. 

G21Gf6ff. Free Library and Museum. 

G2lGb. Naturalists' Society. 

G21Gc'. University of South Wales and Motimouthshire. 

GREECE. 

Athens. 

G22G. Bureau of Statistics. 

G230. Hellenikos Didaskalikos Syllogos. 

6230c. Hygienic Society. 

ICELAND. 

Reykjavik. 

G25G. Bokasafn Alpingis. (Librarian of the Legislature of Ice- 
land.) 

ITAEY. 

Arezzo. 

. G28L Accademia Petrarca. (Correct name: R. Accademia Pe- 
trarca di Scienze, Letrere ed Arti.) 
Bologna. 

G305. Repertorium Italianum di Bianconi. (Defunct.). 

G30G. Revista Chimica di Bologna. 
Caltagirone. 

G31G'(. School of Agriculture. 
Camerino. 

G31Gc. Bullettino Numismatico e Sfragistico. 



LIST Ol-^ FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 141 

Caserta. 

()318. Agricultural Statiou. 
Como. 

0322. Collcsio Gallio. 
Eirenze. 

0331). Lstituto Topografico Militare. (Same as 0337.) 

0340. Italian Asiatic Societ3\ 

OoOO. lleviie Internationale. 

G3G1. Jl. Comitato Geolog'ico d' Italia. (Same as 0081, in Rome.) 

0305. (Correct name.) Societa Italiana d' Autropologia. 

0300. Societa Malacologica Italiana. 
Forli. 

0307. Direzione dell' "Industriale Italiauo." (Discontinued.) 
Genova. 

0384. K. Scuola Superiore di Applicazionedi Studi Commerciali. 
Messina. 

OlOL "La ScienzaContemporanea." (Discontinued.) 
Milano. 

0-ilO. Agricultural Station. (A dependence of 0449.) 

0412. Arcliivio Italiauo per le Malattie ^ervose, etc. 

04:18. Consiglio degli Istituti Ospitalieri. 

0421. Direzione del "Bollettino Scientiflco." (Discontinued.) 

0424. Direzione della ''Natura." (Discontinued.) 

0420. Giuuta Municipale di Milano. 

0428. " L' Elottiicita." 

0450. Societa di Freniatria. 
Modena. » 

0481. Socictri. Moteorologica Italiana. (Dissolved.) 
Modica. 

0485. Osservatorio Meteorologii^o. (Defunct.) 
Moncalieri. 

0488. Italian Meteorological Association. 
Napoli. 

0514. La Psichiatria e la iSTeuropatologia. 

0538. Societe Helv^tique de Bienfaisance. 
Padova. 

0545. ''Gazzetta Medica Italiana." (Discontinued.) 
Palermo. 

0504. L' Arcbivio per lo studio delle tradizioni pojjolari. 

0574. Societa Siciliana per la Storia Patria. 
Parma. 

0577. (Correct name.) Bullettino di Paleontologia Italiana. 

0580. 11. Deputazione di Storia Patria. 
Pavia. 

0590. Bollettino Scientiflco. 
Pisa. 

0598. Arcbivio Giuridico. 



142 LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 

Roma. 

GG25c. Accademia L' Uuione Universale cli Lettere, Scienze ed 
Arti. 

G626. Agricultural Station. 

GC2Ga. Biblioteca Casanatense. 

GG41, Corrispondeuza Scientifica in Eoma. (Discontinued.) 

GG4:7. Direzione del "Periodico di !Nuinisiuatica e Sfragistica per 
Ta Storia d' Italia." (Same as G31Gc, in Camerino.) 

GG50. Direzione Generale del Debito Pubblico. 

GG50.° Direzione Stato Civile della Citta di Roma. 

GG72. Xorth American College. 

GG7G. Osservatorio dell' Universita Carapidoglio. 

GG78. R. Istituto Botanico. 

GG82. Eeal Mineria. 

GGSG. Eoyal Patent Office. 

GG8S(7. Eegia Universita, 

GG89. Revista di Filologia Eomaua. (Discontinued.) 

G694. Societa Geologica Italiana. 
San Marino. 

GG98^. Museum of Antiquities.. 
Sienna. 

G70G. Societa fra i Cultori delle Scienze Medicbe. 
Torino. 

G712. Archives Italiennes de Biologie. 

G722. Musei di Zoologia e d, Anatomia comparata della E. Uni- 
versita di Torino. 

G730. R. Museo Geologico di Torino. 

C742. Revista di Filosofia Scientifica. [i] 

G73:2&. Revista di Medici na Legale. 

G748. Societa di Geografla ed Etnografia. 
Venezia. 

G7G9. Biblioteca Marciana. (Same as G771.) 

G774. Observatory of tbe Parochial Seminary. 

G778. Redaziono della " ISTotarisia." 

XETHEKLAXDS. 

Amsterdam. 

G794. De Indische Mercur. [ij 

G802. Maandblad voor Telegraphic. 

G80G. J^ederlandsche Koloniale Vereeniging. 

G814. Vereeniging tot Bervodering der Zoetwater-vischerij in 
Nederland. 
Exaeten {near Rocrmond), 

G832. "Stinimen aus Maria Laach." 
's Gravenhage. 

G837. Commission Geod6sique N^erlandaiso. (Now in Delft.) 

G853ft. Minister of tlie Colonies. 

GS54, Minister of Public Instruction. 



LIST OF FOREIGN COKRESPONDKxNTS. 143 

s' Gravenhage — Conliiiued. 

G85kf. Miuister of the Waterstaat, Commerce, and Industry. 

G85G. Societc de Statistiqiie des Pays-Bas. 
Groningen. 

GS58. Genootscbap ter Bevorderiiig dor NatuurkuDdigo Weten- 
schapi)eu. 
Leiden. 

G882. Haagsch Geuootsdiai) tot Yerdediging van de Christelijke 
Godsdienst. 

GOOJ^. Sixieme Congrcs International des Orientalistes. 

GOOD. Zoologisch Station der Xederlaudscho Dierkundige Ver- 
eeniging. (Same as G8S9.) 
Maastricht. 

G910. Musee Ubagbs. 
Nijmwegen. 

GDIS. Nederlandscbe Botaniscbe Vereeuigiug. 
Rotterdam. 

G9l*5. Societe Nuerlandaise do Zoologie. (Same as G889 in Lei- 
den.) 
Schiedam. 

G92G. Natimrkundige Vereeuiging "Martinet." (Dissolved.) 
Zwolle. 

G912. Maaudblad voor den Nederhindsobeu Laudbouwer. 
Wageningen. 

G950. Universiteit. 

NORWAY. 

Bergen, 

G95G. Laerde Skoles Bibliotbek. 

G902. Selskab for Videnskaberues Fremme. 
Christiania. 

G9GG. " Biologiske Meddelelser." 

G979a. Departementet for Norges Fiskerier. 

G980. De Skandinaviske ISTaturforskeres Selskab. 

7028. Natnrhistorisk Forening. 

PORTUGAL. 

Coimbra. 

7078. Botanic Garden of the University. 

7082. Journal des Sciences Matbematiqucs ■ et Astronomiques. 

7084. Sociedade Broteriana. 
Lisboa. 

709G. Bureau Central de Statistique. 

7099. Comniissrio Central Permanente de Geograpbia. (Incor- 
porated witb 7135, August 12, 1880.) 

7103. Dir'ec^ao General dos Trabalbos Geologicos (a section of 
7101). 

711G. Minister of Justice. 

7131. Revue du Portugal et de ses Colonies. 



144 LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 

Oporto. 

7155/. Reale Bibliotheca Publica do Porto. 

715G. Sociedade de Geograpbia Commercial do Porto, [i] 

ROLMANIA. 

Siikarest. 

71G0. Academia Roumania. 

71G0fl. Directiunea Biurouliii Geologicu. 

llGOh. Institiitul Meteorologic al Eomanici. 

7161. Societe Eoiimaine d' Agriculture. (Dissolved.) 

71G4. Topographic Bureau. 
Galatz. 

71Glc. Commission Europ6enne du Danube. 

RUSSIA. 

Derpt. 

71G8. Arcbiv fiir die j^aturkunde Livlands, Estblands, und Kur- 
lands. 
Elisavetgrad. 

7190. Meteorological Station. 
Helsingfors. 

7190c. Astronomical Observatory of the Imperial Alexander Uni- 
versity. 

7194. Fiuska Fornminnesforeningen. 

lldia. Finska Forstforeniugen. [i] 

7200. Folkupplysniugs sallskapet. 

7203. (Correct name.) Finska Yetenskaps Societetens Meteoro- 
logiska Central Anstalt. 

720G. Pedagogiska Foreningen i Finland. 

7208. Societe Fiuno-Ougrienne. 
Kishener. 

7238. Societe d'Agricnlture. 
Moskva. 

7300. Statistical Bureau of the City of Moscow. 
Odessa. 

731G. Observatory. 
Pavlofsk. 

732G. Central Astronomical Observatory. 
Petrowskoye Rasumowskoye {near Moscow). 

7328. Land- und Forstwirthschaftliche Akademie. (Same as 7297 
in Moscow.) 
Polotsk. 

732Srt. Metrulogical and Magnetic Station. 
Sankt-Peterburg. 

7348. "Annuaire du Journal des Mines de Russie." 

7350. "Artillery Journal." [i] 

7358. Department of Telegraphs. 

7419e. " Journal of Legal and Clinical Psychiatry and N"europath. 
ology." 



LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 145 

Sankt-Peterburg—Coutinued. 

7420. KfMectricitc Eussc. 

7424. Messenger of Neurology aiul Forensic rsyclio-rathology. 
7458. Kussiaii Society of Fish aud Fisheries. 
74G4. Kussiaii Society of Boolisellers aud Tublisbers. 
7473rt. "Household and School." 
7474. Service do Sante de I'Arniee. 
747G. Society of Psycliiatry. 
7491. Agronomical Institute. (Defunct.) 

7493. Agricultural Museum of the Ministry <.f State Domains 
(Defunct.) 

Vilna. . 

7r);'.5. Astronomical ()l<servatory. (Delunct.) 

Vladimir. 

7539. Imperial School of Marine Jurisprudence. (Delunct.) 

Badajos. 

7543rt. El Folk Lore Detico Extremeno. 

7544c. Asociaciou de Excursiones. 

754G. Gazeta Mcdica Catalana. 

7552. Real xicademia de Cieucias Naturales y Artes. 

Madrid. 

7570. Agricultural School. 

7570«. Anales de la Real Academia de .Alediciua. 

7580. Direccion General de Aduanas. 

75S0rt. El Folk-Lore Betico-Extremeno. 

7582. Gazeta del Constructor y Revista de la Arquitectuia ISa- 

cional y Extranjera. [ij 
7582«. (ioverument of Spain. 
imolc. Revista de los Rrogresos de las Ciencias Fxactes, lisicas 

y Naturales. 
7G0(>. Revista de Telegraphos. 
7G17. Spanish Minister of State. 

Zaragoza. 

7G32. Universidad Literaria de Ziirngoza. 

Stockholm. 

7G43«. "Acta Mathematica." 
7G54. Hydrographic Oftice. 
7G58. Kongiiga Kommerce Ivollegium. 
7GG2. Kongiiga Tekuiska Hogskolan. 
7GG9/'. Kationalekonomiska I^orening. 
7G70. Nautisk Meteorologiska Byriin. 
H. Mis. 170 10 



146 LIST OF FOREIGN COKRESPONDENTS. 

Stockholm — Coutiuued. 

7<J72. Xordiska Museet. [ i & Eth.] 

7G74. Polyteclmicum. 

7674a. lioyal Museum of Natural Ilistory. 

76746. Eoyal Patent Office. 

7674e. Ska7idinaviske Naturforskers Forsamling'. 

7684. Teclmologisk Institute. 
Vesteras. 

7698. Vester&s Hogre Allmjinna Liiroverk. 

S^VITZERLAND. 

Aarau. 

7706. Mittelscliweizerisclie Geographisch - Coiiuuercielle Gesell- 
schaft. [i] 
Basel. 

7716. PLysikaliscbe Anstalt im Bernoiilliauum. 
Bern. 

7721. Allgemeine Schweizerisclie Gesellscbaft fiir die Gesamm- 
ten Naturwissenscbaften. [iiij 

7742. Journal Tolegrapbique de Berne. 

7761. Soci(jt-6 des Sciences Naturelles. (Same as 7721.) 
Geneve. 

7811. Soci(jte Suisse de Topograpbie et d'Arpentage. |i] (Cor- 

rect title.) 
Grand Saint- Bernard. 

7812. Hospice du Grand St.-Bernard. 
Le Locle. 

7823a. Soci6t6 Neucbateloise dc Geograpbie. \\] 
Liizern. 

7828. Scbweizeriscbe Naturforscbeude Gesellscbaft. 
Neufchatel. 

1S2S(L Commission Penitentiaire Internationale. 

7834. Societe Neucbateloise de G6ograi)bie, (Same as 7823a..) 
Zurich. 

7858. Antiqua. Unterbaltunagblatt fiir Freundeder Altertbums 
kunde. Herausgegeben von einem Consortium Scbwei- 
zeriscber Altertbumsfreunde. 

7870. Scbweizeriscbe Geodiitiscbe Commission. 

7876. Statistical Bureau. 

TURKEY. 

Constantinople. 

7808. Bibliotbeque Gen6rale Ottomane. 

7912. Minist^-re des Affaires liltrangeres. 

7912a. Ministere de I'Instrnction Publique. 
Sophia {Bnl(iaria). 

. 7020. Bulgarian Government. 



LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 147 

MTSC ET.r.ANKOUS. 

1290. International Congress of Hygiene, Vienna. 

1520. International Congress of Pbarmacy, Brnssels. 

3140. International Congress of Geological Sciences, l>erlin. 

5538. International Health Exhibit, London. 

G007. International Congress of Orientalists, Leiden. 

7828r/. International Penitentiary Commission, Nenchatel. 

7952. International Medical Congress, Berlin^ 1890. 



SYSTEMATIC ARRANGEMENT OF THE LIST OF FOREIGN COR- 
RESPONDENTS. JULY, 1886. 



Prepared by George H. Boehmer. 



In the Annual Report for 1885 a "List of Foreign Correspondents" of 
the Sniitlisonian Institution was published, and a supplement to it is 
given in the ]>resent report, under the title "Additions and Corrections 
to the List of Foreign Correspondents, corrected to July, 1886." 

The paper now submitted represents a systematic arrangement of 
the two lists, under the following classification : 
I. Academies of Arts, Letters, Science, etc. 

11. Commissions, Committees, International Conferences and Con 
gresses. 
III. Governments and Government Departments. 
lY.' Hospitals and Hospices. 
V. Institutes and Institutions of Learning. 
VI. Journals and Periodicals. 
VII. Laboratories. 
VIII. Libraries. 
IX. Museums. 
X. Observatories. 
XI. Societies. 
XII. Surveys. 

XIII. Universities, Colleges, and Schools. 

XIV. Establishments receiving the Smithsonian Annual Reports. 
XV. Establishments receiving the Smithsonian Miscellaneous Col- 
lections and the Annual Reports. 

XVI. Establishments receiving the Smithsouian Contributions to 
Knowledge, the Miscellaneous Collections, and the x\nnual 
Reports. 

I. — Academies. 
Agriculture. 

0353 ()595 
Agriculture, Manufactures, and Commerce. 
2441. 
148 



LIST OF FOREIGN COKUESPONDENTS. 149 

Archeeology. 

1117 0109 (5511) C.OL'l G(J25. 
Archaeology and Geology. 

7001. 
Archaeology, Letters and Fine Arts. 

0517. 
Architecture. 

2237. 
Arts and Sciences. 

741). 
Belles Lettres. 

7551. 
Belles-Lettres, History, and Antiquaries. 

700.'), 
Ethnography. 

1!)21. 
Exact Sciences. 

403 7503. 
Fine Arts. 

1449 2549^/ 2S07 :V2\y.] 0283 0317 0439 0015 00310725 0775 0809 
7094 7401 7025. 
General Staff. <Soe IMilitary.) 
Horticulture. 

2927. # 

History. 

7003. 
Inscriptions and Belles-lettres. 

2549/>. 
Legislature. 

2929. 
Medicine. 

275 535Z> 4491 2443 0379 0727. 
Medicine, Physical and Natural Sciences, 

339. 
Meteorologic Aerostation. 

2439. 
Moral «and Political Science. 

2549(' 7599. 
Natural Sciences. 

535 0319 0023 0077. 
Naturalists. 

0493. 
Oriental. 

1387. 
Physico-Medico Statistics. 

0405. 



150 LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 

Physical and Mathematical Sciences. 

(JaL'o. 
Plastic Art. 

1303. 
Sciences. 

564 1041 1135 1200 IGIO 1850 1872 1075 1005 2057 2120 2143 23G0 
2371 2417 2420 2540rt 2540c 2707 2817 3205 4025 4153 4173 
4243 4G11 4805 4031 5005 C007 0281 0201 0300 0403 0405 0407 
0023 0711 0707 0800 0881 7050 7073 7080 7100 7371 7597 70C1 
7077 7087. 
Sciences and Belles-lettres. 

1821 0407. 
Science and Letters. 

0523 0557. 
Sciences, Agriculture, Arts, and Belles-lettres. 

1705 2001 0787. 
Sciences, Arts, Belles-lettres, and Geography. 

2273. 
Sciences, Inscriptions, and Belles-lettres. 

2031. 
Sciences, Arts, and Female Industries. 

7544. 
Sciences, Arts, Letters, Agriculture, and Industry. 

2003. 
Sciences, Letters, and Arts. 

1403 1800 1847 1000 1023 1000 2035 2003 2081 2145 2221 2277 2845 
0281 0371 0307 0473 0540 0011 0G25c 0755. 
Scientific Research and Acclimation. 

10. 
Spanish and Portuguese. 

2037. 
Three Noble Arts. 

7567. 

II. — Commissions, Committees, International Conferences and 

Congresses. 
Agriculture. 

1217 2080 2181 2320 2300a 3320 3375 0321 03J»5 0470 7037. 
Americanists. 

7025 7035. 
Amortizement. 

7300. 
Anthropology. 

7040. 
Antiquities or Archseology. 

1845 1807 2027 2085 2840 2051 2081 2003 0037 7375 7040. 



LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 151 

Archaeology and Literature. 

2405. 
Archseography. 

7310 7533. 
Artillery and Engineering. 

()031). 
Artillery and Torpedoes. 

G705. 
Artistic. 

7933. 
Arts and Historic Monuments. 

1309 2909. 
Benevolent. 

7939. 
Botany. 

7927 7941. 
Civil Service. 

5433. 
Congo. ' 

1497 7923. 
Commercial Geography. 

7945. 
Crown lands and Public Works 

28«. 
Danube. 

71G4f. 
Exchanges. 

385rt 427 499 1511 2494 GG9S G8S1 7357. 
Flemish. 

2107. 
Forestry. 

7937. 
Geodesy. 

1717 3311 5538rt G837 G973 7101 7870 7951. 
Geography. 

294 7099 7739 7929. 
Geology. 

3140 3313 4G05 4977 G361 GG81 73G1 7931. 
Geological Map. 

1515 2511 G793 7575 7727. 
Health. 

1290 5538 79G3. 
History. 

1519 2179 G302 G355 G580. 
History and Archseology. 

2150 2427. 



152 LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 

History and Arts. 

1S23. 
Historical Monuments and Antiquities. 

1851. 
Historical Monuments and Documents. 

1921). 
Horticulture. 

7927 7941. 
Hydrometric. 

2227. 
Hygiene. 

1290. 
Industry. 

1013. 
International Law. 

1589. 
Lunacy. 

5441 G131. 
Medicine. 

1^279 39G1 7952. 
Meteorology. 

33 473i 1031 1930 2201 2229 55.58a 7953 7955. 
Meter. 

7957. 
National Defense, 

3331. 
Natural History. 

1193 G729. 
Orientalists. 

0904 7947. 
Pharmacy. 

1520. 
Penitentiary. 

7S2Sd. 
Polar. 

7959. 
Pomology. 

7901. 
Popular Economy. 

3715. 
Prehistoric Anthropology and Archaeology. 

7949. 
Pttblic Health. 

1015 1931 2183. 
Public Wwks. 

1517. 



LIST OF FOREION CORRESPONDENTS. 15o 

Publication of Ancient Laws. 

1518. 
Red Cross, 

3123 G499. 
Sanitary. (See Ilealtli.) 
School. 

3271. 
Scientific Exploration of the German Sea. 

4507. 
Scientific of the Navy. 

7141. 
Silk Culture. , 

79G5. 
Solar Physics. 

5439. 
Statistics. 

1222 1359 1513 3303 7513 7907. 
Teachers of the Blind. 

2999. 
Technical Committee of the Navy. 

3275. 
Telegraphy, 

7969. 
Testing of Ordnance. 

3297. 
Trade. 

3009 5553. 
Transit of Venus. 

3139,7. 
Trawling. 

5773. 
Weights and Measures. 

2501 7355 7943. 

III. — Governments and Government Derartments. 

Governments. 

40 145 222a 25S 295 417 435 477 501 555 GOO 015 044 001 003 078 
084 709 795 817 839 .^49 885 953 1275 1521 1731 3037 3009 3787 
3909 4129 4227 4453 4945 4959 4989 5349 6229 0231 0331 0855 
7347 7543 7729 7891 7921. 
Agriculture. 

139 153 207 Oil 711 1301 2005 4459. ' 
Agriculture, Domains, and Forests. 

3347. 
Agriculture and Industry. 
1043. 



154 LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 

Agriculture, Industry, and Commerce. 

()iJ,j5. 
Agriculture, Statistics, and Health. 

195. 
Artillery and Torpedoes, 

0705, 
Botanic Garden. 

L'8 126 360a 364 G98 703 837 871 915 1127 1528 2553 3303 4161 
4815 5291 6147 6529 (Jo6d 6581 6685 7078 7403. 
Chamber of Commerce. 

280 041 872 979 1140 1697 1927 2220 3795 4085 4295 4465 4609 
4737 4831 5072 5095 5574 6009. 
Chamber of Commerce and Board of Trade. 

979 1013 1111 1109 1227 1297. 
Chamber of Manufactures. 

872^f. 
Children's Relief 

800. 
Church and Education. 

1341 1759 3943 5019 6981. 
Civil Service. 

5433. 
Colonies. 

2017 5445 G853a 7097 7591. 
Commerce. 

1321 1729 2023 3069. 
Commerce and Agriculture. 

717. 
Commerce and Trade. 

334.5. 
Communications. 

7431. 
Consuls. 

523 533 503 5167. 
Customs. 

519. 
Education. 

154 169 723. 
Engineer Corps. 

537 2514 5213 7417 7475. 
Exchange Commission. 

385a 427 499 1511 2494' 0098 0881 7357. 
Finance. 

557 2007 3305 5007 0650 6657 7425. 
Finance and Commerce, 

042. 



LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. lf)b 

Finance and Public Works. 

527. 
Fisheries. 

5475 5705 0043 G129 G1G3 0833 C979a 7644. 
Foreign Affairs. (See State.) 
Forests. 

S3C>e 5000. 
Fortifications. 

1331 3331 o52o. 
General Agents of Governments. 

5350 5301 5303 5305 5307 5445 5744. 
General Staff. 

3300 3309 3377 3403 5205 7451. 
Geography. 

721 /i 2517 7019. 
Geology. 

1033 1317 2510 3313 3879 4605 4977 5491 0081 7103 7100^/ 7051. 
Health. 

104 1752 2850 3251 3890 3951 7474 7893. 
Home. 

3249 5515. 
Hydrography. 

489 1187 1709 2495 2510 3245 4441 5523 0393 730? 7054. 
Hydrometry. 

2074. 
India. 

5503. 
Interior. 

47 379 481 554 974 1343 1533 1757 2013 3259 3343 4448 5017 0233 
0001 0853 7019 7433 7589 773 L 
Interior, Colonization, Industry, and Commerce. 

297. 
Interior and Justice. 

3890t'. 
Industry. 

3875. 
Justice. 

147« 3265 3319 5013 7110. 
Justice and Public Instruction, 

299. 
Justice, Worship, and Education, 

4449. 
Light-Houses. 

0111. 
Longitudes. 

2499 2507. 



156 LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 

Lunacy. 

5U1 0018 G131. 
Marine Court. 

;32o5. 
Maritime Customs. 
593 COl 5427. 
Medicine. 

235 G38 G192 7423. 
Meteorology. 

177 247 335 407 47i) 502 G07 G27 053 007 013 950 1307 1715 2493 
3337 3849 4305 4441 4811 5295 5001 0100 0097 7005 71006 7005 
7070 7871. 
Meteorology and Trigonometry Survey. 

714. 
Meteorology and Weather. 

959. 
Mines. 

227 72G 801 875 900 3313 3355 3731 3817 4245 73G7 7509 7055. 
Mint. 

899 3351 C682. 
Nautical Almanac. 

2507 3374 3473 5021 7079. 
Navy. 

1333 1375 2510 2017 3243 3245 5393 0007 7097 7303 7423 7437. 
Patent. 

148 728 907 1392 1538 2023 3257 5485 CC8G 70746. 
Post. 

341 968a 2019 3207 5047. 
Printing. 

957 1327 3201. 
Public Education. 

7429. 
Public Instruction. 

117 374« 483 787 4833 0003 0854 7589 7912«. 
Public Instruction and Fine Arts, 

201.5. 
Public Works. 

301 585 720 1517 2021 3349 4409 0005. 
Public Works, Commerce, and Agriculture. 

441 0854fl.. 
Public Works and Post-Offices. 

509. 
Practical Art. 

5448a. 
Railroads. 

10J9 1397 3263 4057 7737 7824. 



LIST OF FOREIGN COUKESPONDENTS. 157 

^Records. 

1711 3315 3357 3S87 5011 7041. 
Registrar-General. 

825 \Hua 0031. 
Revenue and Agriculture. 

0.j5 (>[)'.). 
Revenue and Finance. 

0.30. 
Royal Household. 

.3!H33. 
Schools (Inspector-General of). 

841. 
State. 

248 250 881 443 5,31 570 725 1055 1339 1520 2000 3247 33.30 3357 
3359 3889 3941 4447 4454 4823 5015 5557 5503 0009 7011 7117 
7483 7000 7009 7912. 
State Domains. 

7427 7485. 
Stationery. 

5738a. 
Statistics. 

5l6' 250/^ 283 411 412 473 497 549 553 COl 880 1007 13.59 1513 1751 
2497 3023 3273 3301 3005 3789 3877 395.3 4073 4292 4423 4455 
4083 4701 4807 4947 5025 0226 0049 0811 0835 0911 7009 7090 
7181 7191 7300 7481 7513 7075 7733 7870 7899. 
Statistics and Meteorology. 

247. 
Surgeon General. 

059 701. 
Surveyor-General. 

970a. 
Technical Board of Education. 

784. 
Telegraphy. 

343 2019 7358. 
Topography. 

02 475 1774 2502h 3321 3309 3957 4457 4829 0841 0907 7477 7725. 

Trade. 

5395 5553. 

Trade and Commerce. 

5003. 
Translation of Foreign Scientific Books. 

587. 
Treasury. 

300 3209 3305 5591. 
War. 

559 1329 1331 1375 2517 201 1 3323 00.59 7489. 



158 LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 

Water Supply, Commerce, and Industry. 
68r)irt. 

Weights and Measures. 

388 943 2501 1>()2(). 
Worship, Education, and Medicine. 

oMi. 
¥7orship and Instruction. 

103;3«. 
Zoological Garden. 

3721 fiOOl). 
City Governments. 

281 383 429 785 873 1417 1470 1481 IG76 2637 3383 4630 5555 5571 
5923 6050 6182rf 6287 6426 6429 6650c 7465 7829. 

IV. — nOSPITALS AND HOSPICES. 

624 650 684a 773 1967 2749 3 33 3137 3201 3205 3241 3277 3279 
3281 3283 3285 3287 3395 3429 4181 5098 5577 5613 5699 5701 
5703 6437 6673 7043 7713.7812. 

Y. — Institutes or Institutions. 
Acclimatization. 

3121. 
Actuaries. 

5527. 
Agriculture. 

3746' 412 440 2111 2547 4615 7115 7491 7547. 
Anatomy. 

.3241 4377 4405. 
Anthropology. 

5373. 
Archaeology. 

1474 1621 5659 6651. 
Archaeology and Natural History. 

5169, 
Architecture. 

5681. 
Art. 

6125. 
Artillery. 

5981. 
Bankers. 

5528. 
Blind. 

1003 3301 3809 3937 4097 4117 4281 7419 7815. 
Botany. 

5052 6678. 



LLST OF FOKEKJiN LOR KESPON DENTS. 159 

Civil Engineer. 

o5ol GO.'] 7. 
Colonies. 

5(J71. 
Deaf and Dumb. 

4119 4:()Sr) IT,");; 4755 4SL'7 52;)7 (iO;W 0071 <j;>8! GS51) 7321 7411 7813 
7S55. 
Deaf, Dumb, and Blind, 

1)3. 
Demented Children. 

4137G. 
Engineers. 

r>lL>3 (5221 0845 7417. 
Engineers and Ship-builders. 

()191. 
Ethnography. 

2551. 
Fine Arts. 

(J151 G511. 
Forestry. 

74G7. 
Geodesy. 

3311. . 
Geognosy. 

41G7. 
Geography. 

375 701 1021 1335 1527 4207. 
Geography and Statistics. 

7583. 
Geology. 

1033 1295 1317 3313 7739, 
Higher Studies. 

G335. 
History. 

377 4723. 
History, Geography, and Ethnography. 

439. 
Horology. 

5405. 
Hydrometrical and Nautical Engineers 

5533. 
Industry. 

7113 7153. 
International Law. 

1523. 
Iron and Steel. 

5539. 



160 LIST (3F FOREIGN CORKESPONDENTS. 

Life -boat. 

i5G91. 
Literature. 

Literature, Science, Commerce, and Industry. 

1G53. 
Lunacy. 

5233 5857. 
Mathematic o-Phy sics . 

;>938. 
Mechanical Engineers. 

5529. 
Mechanics. 

205 G31 803 8G7 90S 3335. 
Medical Chirurgy. 

Meteorology. 

1715 3337 G931 7005. 
Meteorology and Terrestrial Maguetisni 

1031 1307. 
Military Cartography. 

1525. 
Mineralogy. 

3735 4183. 
Mining, 

5907 G201. 
Mining Engineers. 

5219. 
Mining and Mechanical Engineers. 

5837 5951. 
Mining, Civil, and Mechanical Engineers 

5123. 
Movement Cure. 

5001. 
Natural, Economical, and Technical Sciences. 

G527. 
Natural History. 

G3Gc 5899. 
Natural Science. 

233. 
Natural Science and Mathematics. 

4725. 
Naval Architects. 

5535. 
Navy. 

6383 7623. 



LIST OF FUK1:I(j!N CUitKEtti'OxNDENTS. IGl 

Oriental Languages. 

. 7483. 
Paleontology. 

4185. 
Pathological Anatomy. (S(^c Anatomy.) 
Pharmacy. 

4187. 
Philology, Geology, and Ethnography. 

0847. 
Philosophy. 

927 0140. 
Pomology. 

4937. 

Physics. 

4193. 
Physiology. 

3823 4195 4373 4027. 
Phy sico-Pathology. 

0079. 
Science. 

. 130 144 105 193 200 202 3006" 30l)c 910 917 929 935 937 941 903 
1103 2549 4594 5049 5255 528 5 5581 5083 5933 5993 0017 0207 
6209 0219 0053 7081 7021 7031 7785. 
Science, Arts, and Letters. 

G777. 
Science and Letters. 

327 0441. 
Statistics. 

0811. 
Technology. 

3071 0383 0445 0487 0567 7409 7084. 
Topography. 

0841. 
United Service. 

5697» 
Zoology. 

2187 4521. 
Zoological Anatomy. (See Anatomy.) 
Zoological Zootomy. 

4145 4203 5107. 

Yl. — Journals and rERioDicALS. 
Aeronautics. 
2445. 
Agriculture. 

1409 2087 2341 2559 3407 3513 3593 3000 4421 5759 0309 6423 

0942 0947 7587. 
H. Mis. 170- 11 



1G2 LIST OF FOREIGN COERESPONDENTS. 

Agriculture and Chemistry. 

3579. 
Agriculture and Forestry. 

4551). 
Agriculture, Industry, Literature and Art. 

2973. 
Anatomy. 

5191 6158. 
Anatomy and Physiology. 

2562 5189. 
Anatomy, Physiology and Medical Sciences. 

4637. 
Anthropology. 

2643 2932 3764 4109. 
Anthropology and Ethnology. 

6323. 
Antiquarian. 

635 5375 7858. 
Anti-phylloxera. 

1133, 
Archaeology. 

2647 3447 3573 3643 5240 5375 5377 5655. 
Architecture. 

2591 3641 5379 7582. 
Army. 

3505. 
Army and Navy. 

3567. 
Art. (See Agriculture.) 

3453 4353. 
Art and Collections. 

3565. 
Art and Numismatics. 

113. 
Artillery. 

7350 7579. 
Artillery and Engineering. 

3449. 
Asiatic. 

2557. 
Astronomy. (See Mathematics.) 

2507 2582 3374 3473 3011 4495 4548 53S5 5545 5627 6075 7079. 
Astronomy and Meteorology. 

4547. 
Auriculist. 

;i003. 



LIST OF FOREIGN COKKESPONDENTS. 1 ()3 

Bacteriology. 

1180. 
Bibliography. 

UG3(!c 3553 778;>. 
Biology. 

L'4(jG 4845 5545 OT lli iVM\('>. 
Book Trade. 

5397. 
Botany. 

L*G4() 3483 35G3 3571 Jl'Cl 44ri9 4170 4r.53 4954 539(1 niMWui. 
Chemistry. (ISec l^hyisics.) 

2491 3489 3491 4259 4582 KliOo' 4744 5419 5123 (;3(»(> (!507 (5561. 
Chemistry and Pharmacy. 

4033. 
Chirurgy. (Soe Cliuical Chiriirgie and Medicine.) 
Civil Engineers. 

2457 GG45. 
Classical Philology. 

4G52. 
Clinical Chirurgie. 

3455. 
Coal and Iron Trade. 

5719 57G4. 
Colonial. (See Shii)[)iiig-.) 

2G52 5750 GSOS 7134. 
Commerce. 

25 IG 3531 5312 5438 GSOl. 
Communications. 

355. 
Conchology. 

25G1 5299. 
Consular. 

3511. 
Crystallography and Mines. 

4G71. 
Debats. 

25GG. 

Dental. 

24G7 4045. 
Diplomatic. 

5449 5707. 
Drapers. (See Warehouse.) 
Economist. 

5749. 
Education. 

185. 



164 LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 

Electricity. 

25^2a 25S7 2590 2660a 5753 0428. 
Electricity and Telegraph. 

o535 '1334: 5751 . 
Engineer. (See Artillery.) 

5755 5757. 
Engravings. 

0G47. 
Entomology. 

109 1130 2577 .•!477 3197Z; 3503 3645 4908 5405 5407 0907 7047 
7815. 
Ethnography. 

2051. 
Ethnology. (Sec Anthropology.) 
Exact Science. 

7G05A-. 

Exploration. 

2583 0509. 
Fish. 

1723 1780 3529 4971 5473 5477. 

Folklore. (See IMiilology.) 

29 7543rt 7580rt. 
Forestry. (See Agriculture.) 

3537. 
Fruit ana Horticulture. 

1415. 
Geography. (See Intern a tioual Geography.) 

2485 2542 2053 3471 3547 3773 rSOGa 4477 4573 4041 4841 5074 
5214 5543 7100« 7787. 
Geology. (See History and Mineralogy.) 

2459 5131 5493 5545. 

Gynaecology. (See Obstetrics.) 

3451. 
Herald. 

3495 3033. 
History. (See Science.) 

3581 3973 4039. 
History and Archaeology. 

2331 3595. 
History and Geology. 

3055. 
Horticulture. (See Fruit.) 

1205 1403 2592& 2057 5701. 
Hospital. 

2541. 



LIST OP FOREIGN COKKESPONDENTS. 1G5 

Hydrography. 

:;i37. 

Hygiene. (Sec Public Hygiene and Legal IMedieinc.) 
Industry. (See also Agricnltiire and Science.) 
421 2G236' 2050 .'ions IfiGl 4843 5545 0305. 

Industry and Chemistry. 

3189. 
Insanity. 

43G4 4381 4383. 
Insurance. 

5703a. 
International Geography. 

Iron. 

5541 5542 
Iron Trade. (See Coal, etc.) 
Language, Indo-German. 

4159 4550. 
Language, Modern, and Literature. 

3705. 
Legal. 

44 1202 1280 158 J 3507 3521 .'{545 3591 3057 4844 5582 5704c 0044 
G1386' 0200 0598 0778 7033 7419c. 
Linguistics. 

2003 4051. 
Linguistics and Comparative Philology. 

2001 3501 3059. 
Literature. (See Agriculture, Language, and Science,; 

1797 3515 3597 4080c 4057 4007. 
Machinery. 

5592. 
Malacology. 

4485. 
Mathematics. 

3551 3575 .3587 5195 7043«. 
Mathematics and Astronomy. 

2489. 
Mathematics and Natural Science. 

0903. 
Mathematics and Physics. 

4035. 
iVIechanics. 

5401 5593^. 
Medical Sciences. (See Anatomy.) 



1C6 LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS, 

Medicine. 

1 280 414 4;33 460 4'JO 509 047 783 1413 1495 1734 1750 1935 2343 
2463 2405 2538c 2545 2001 2039 2000 2935 3443 3485 3517 3585 
3031 4019 4010 4031 5397a 5409 5595 5590 5599 5G47c 5705 
5706a 6047 0189 0545 0957 7057 7421 7441 7487 7519 7540 
7570a 7049 7071 7901. 
Medicine and Chirurgy, 

250 342 386a 2545. 
Medicine, Clinical. 
3647 4647. 
Medicine, Criminal. 

2452 3631 4872 6742& 7419e. 
Medicine, Pharmacy. 

9. 
Medicine, Pharmacy and Industry. 

323a. 
Medicine and Psychology. 

2452c. 
Medicine and Surgery. 

2509 0121. 
Mental Science, 

5397a 5542&. 
Mercantile. (See Shipping.) 
Metallurgy. (See Mines.) 
Meteorology. (See also AstroDomy.) 

5600 5711. 
Micrography. 
2572. 
Microscopy and Natural Science. 

5132 5135 5048. 
Microscopy and Inspection of Meat. 

3051. 
Military Medicine. 

3519. 
Milling. 

5766. 
Mineralogy. 
5005. 
Mineralogy, Geology and Palaeontology. 

4309. 
Mines. 

2453 5609 56117348. 
Mines, Metallurgy and Public Works. 

1023. 
Mines and Smelting. 

1107 1384 3637 4043. 



LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 107 

Miscellaneous. 

114 210a 273 400 4(;7(' 747 701 OlOrt 972 1131 1398 1399 1491 1734 
1839 2447 2487 2543 2585 2580 2592 2003 2045 2050 2()00 3001 
3481« 3482 352.^ 3543 3557 3(513 3025 4841 5031 5148 5198 5322 
5322a 5471 5511 5570 .5700 5738 5740 5702 5771 5782 5818 0177 
6180 0300 0513 0558 0794 7459 7473a 7577. 
Mycology. 

2930. 
National Economy. 

1701. 
Naturalists. 

95 2539 2590 3009 5000 5147 6175 0213 0503. 
Naturalists and Geology. 

115. 
Naturalists and History, 

1411 1045 1705 2593 3457 3009 3027 3703 5371 0303 7108. 
Naturalists and Medical Science. 

0927. 
Natural Sciences. (See also Matliematics and Microscopy.) 

2345 2401 2589 3559 3007 3012 3039 4080r/ 4263 4207 45 U) 4(i49 4055 
5619 0719 6805 6963 7027 7037. 
Naval. (See also Array and Navy.) 

1770 3005 3011 3972 4914 5021 7079. 
Naval Medicine. 

2405. 
Nerve diseases. 

3401 4044 6412. 
Neurology. 

2465fZ 7419e 7424. 
Numismatic. 

1407 3481 3053 0310c 0047. 
Obstetrics and Gynecology. 

2032c 3451. 
Official. 

521 1481 3493 3533 4205 7041. 
Opthamology. 

3549. 
Oriental. 

2579. 
Ornithology. 

1094c 3589 5703. 
Palaeontology. (See also Miueralogy.) 

4487 50206. 
Parliament. 

0250. 
Pathology. 
7424. 



168 LIST OF FOREIGN OCRRESPONDENTS. 

Pathology and Anatomy. 

Patent. 

3557 3G21. 
Pedagogy. 

3497 3525 3015 3G17 3010 4513. 
Pharmacology and Practical Medicine. 

2503. 
Pharmacy. (See also Anatomy, Mediciue.) ' 

408 2041 4259 4419 503S 7149. 
Philology. 

2001 2007 3403 3555 3577 4189 4191 4205 5177 0905. 
Philology and Folk Lore. 

759. 
Philology and Pedagogy. 

17714003. 
. Philosophy. 

2008 5575 5042 0721 0742 7883. 
Photography. 

1405 5407. 
Physics. (See also Mathematics.) 

2573 3539. 
Physics and Chemistry. 

2455 3035 4582 4005. 
Physics and Natural Sciences. 

7777. 
Physicians. 

3509. 
Physiology. 

3583 3023 3745 4037. 
Political and Literary. 

2009, 
Polytechnical. 

3509 5029, 
Poultry. 

3541. 
Prevention of Cruelty to Animals. 

3527. 
Primitive and !K"atural History of Man. (See Aiitliro'pology.) 
Psychiatry. 

12976' 3G58 7419r. 
Psychiatric and Criminal Psychiatric Medicine. 

3445. 
Psychiatrie and Neuropotology. 

0514. 



LI8T OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 169 

Psychology and Nervous Diseases. (See Medicine.) 

3101. 
Psycho-pathology. (See jSeurology.) 
Public Instruction. 

121 25G7. 
Public Hygiene. 

4445. 
Public Welfare. 

3431). 
Public Works. (See Mines; Eailroads.) 
Publishers. 

185 G33 2483 3783 4207 4343 45S7 4001 53;il 5775 578:1 0427 7081. 
Railroad. 

3441. 
Railroad and Public Works. 

2505, 
Sanitary. 

5705&. 
Science. 

IIG 305 507 907 llOt) 1895 2178 2509 2515 2555 2575 2581 2589 
2595 2024 2071 3027 4203 4290 5027 5355 5387 5443 5444 5401 
5481 5489 5503 5507 5545 5547 5549 5019 5707/> 5707f; 5709 0345 
0401 0421 0424 0590 0(;01 0041 0719 0805 0885 7027 7545. 
Scientific Botany. (See Botany.) 
Scientific Geography, (See Geography.) 
Science and Industry. 

591. 
Science and Literature. 

2581. 
Science, Literature and History. 

107. 
Science and Zoology. (See Zoology.) 
Shipping and Colonial. 

2005. 
Shipping and Mercantile. 

3972 5447. 
Skin Diseases. (See Syphilis.) 
Smelting. (See Mining.) 
Statistics. 

250rt 1410 3029. 
Stenography. 

3487 3501 3599. 
Syphilis and Skin Diseases. 

3409. 
Technology. 

1219 5545. 



170 LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 

Telegraphy. 

2tG2 7G0G 7742. 
Theology. 

2841 3453 0832 7055. 
Theosophy. 

001. 
Therapeutics. 

27S3/i. 
Tocology. 

24u0/i. 
Vegetarian. 

3475. 
Veterinary. 

1773 3405. 
Warehouse and Drapers. 

5781. 
Zoology. 

409 1782 4081 4199 4430 4073 5787 5791. 

VII. — Laboratories. 
Agricultural Stations. 

1170 2390 2418 2032 3014« 4940 4944 0318 0410 002G. 
Anthropological. 

2931c'. 
Chemical. 

45a 5080. 
Chemical and Chemico-Agricultural and Physical. 

7 1713 4103 4179 5053 0475 0575 0701 0935 0989. 
Chemico Physical. 

1132. 
Morphological. 

5190. 
Physical. 

4300. 

VIII. — Libraries 
Commerce 

4283. 
Imperial Libraries. (SeoKatioual Libraries.) 
Legislative Libraries. (See Parliamentary Libraries.) 
Medicine. 

2337 4279. 
National Libraries (including Imperial and Royal Libraries.) 

51 05 279 371 423 471 503 545 1083 1275 l.jO,} 1719 2477 3055 3009 
3881 3909 3945 4209 4347 44G3 4489 4759 4819 4975 4989 5021 
5077 5349 5559 5561 6051 6231 0249 0309 0327 0331 0415 0501 
05.59 0579 0029 0713 0771 0843 7021 7095 7347 7389 7543 7573 
7657 7723 7891 7921. 



LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 171 

Parliamentary. 

145 Jo!) 173 107 203 210 220 821 S-13 851 805 000 1501 L'502 3105 
3280 3317 4180 5550 55(51 0851 7051. 

Public. 

3 43 71 75 80 102 181 2i5 228 333 337 307 373 415 425 525 500 077 
003 775 780 844 850 801 807 024 007 000 1110 1153 1173 1185 
1218 1243 1453 1473 1475 1477 1483 1581 1585 1587 1005 1007 
1043 1057 1007 1075 1077 1G80 1081 1085 1080 1005 1705 1701 
1811 1025 1001 2005 2337 2373 2473 2470 2481 2827 2847 3000 
3777 3807 4047 4270 4283 4307 4571 4075 4715 4707 4777 4073 
5117 5110 5123^? 5130 5140 5157 5150 5171 5175 5231 5241 5205a 
5303 5300 5325 5345/v' 5483 5485 5504 55; ;0 5551 5553 5555 5557 
5550 5503 5504 5505 57811) 5700 5811 5831 5840 5850 5807 5870 
5887 5S05 5001 5005 5900 5021 5041 5043 5044 5040 5001 0023 
0077 GOOe 0100/i 0105 6103 62Waa 0217 0225 0253 0205 0275 
0270 0325 0320 0503 0543 0020rt 0027 0751 070!> 0783 0780 0813 
0825 0831 0873 (5017 0023 0055 6050 7001 7003 7()0!> 7075 7087 
7165 7241 7251 7277 7300 7333 7351 7507 751 1 7537 7543 7097 
778 L 7783 7817 7870 7808 7011. 

Royal. (See National Libraries.) 

School. 

5808Z> oSUh. 

Staff. 

52, 

University Libraries. (See Universities.) 

IX. — Museums. 

Unclassified, or General. 

30 55 00 248c 250 285 323c 350 301 r>Sr> 445 485 570 019 649 683 
707 775 781 855 887 801 807 919 923 931 949 987 900 1030 
1125 1155 1175 1199 1245 1345 1836 1873 2029 2884 3353 3727 
3785 3872 3891 4201 4200 5171 5187 5203 5253 5313 5323 5325 
5340 5411 5840 5850 5887 5905 5921 5927 5949 5901 5971 0105 
6123 6204 G21Cma (5225 6207 6515 6807.0010 0053 7077 7119 
7121 7253 7279 7337 7445 7447 7672 7789. 
Anatomy. 

5191 5013 6295 6093. 
Anthropology. 

1045 3959 6341. 
Antiquities. 

1535 1747 3837 4517 4445 4801 4873 6698(76897 6999 7071 7443 
7537. 
Archaeology. 

5103 6435,7593. 
Art. 

1351 3109 3327 3435 3925 5325 5737 5859 0051 6072 6143. 



172 LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 

Botany. 

855 4821 5293 G235 (;901 (i'Mo. 
Colony. 

7121. 
Commerce. 

1655. 
Economy. 

5959 7473. 
Education. 

727. 
Ethnography. 

1768 2625 2626 6671 6893 6997 7253 7672. 
Ethnology. 

4589 6997 7637. 
Ethnology and Geography. 

1653. 
Geology. 

1337 4168 5615 6299 6730. 
History. 

2381 3233 39.35 4873 4981. 
Industry. 

1351 1509 1538 1655 3109 3327 3435 4871 6731. 
Medicine. 

2631. 
Mineralogy. 

1781 6723 3401 3735 3938 4409. 
Mineralogy and Geology. 

986. 
Mining Engineers. 

7479. 
Natural History. 

708 708c 823 1121 1259 1337 1537 1653 1937 2005 2097 2151 2189 
2233 2283 2627 2819 3775 3938 4301 4979 5067 5413 5873 6239 
6271 6375 6431 6433 6587 6733 7155 7674a. 
Numismatic. 

6237 6987. 
Oriental. 

1389. 
Paleontology. 

1337. 
Pedagogy. 

2636 3196. 
Philology. 

4065 4674. 
Physical and Natural History. » 

6537. 



LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 173 

Physical Geography. 

Tooo. 
Physical Astronomy. 

1353. 
Prehistoric. 

.1939 31)39 0071. 
Science and Art. (See Art.) 
Technology, Industry and Sanitary. 

810. 
Zoology. (See also Anthropology and Ethnology.) 

1373 1873 3723 3959 11J3 4201 5191 5415 G541 0735 7001 7071 
7791. 
Zoology and Comparative Anatomy. 

0722. 

X. — Observatories. 

Astronomy. 

11 35 57 213 201 405 447 403 487 505 507 529 023 005 089 705 729 
797 813 835 889 951 955 1019 1107 1139 1145 1101 1209 1,301 
1539 1775 1941 1993 2235 2285 2393 2033 2933 3305 3753 3757 
3805 3831 3809 3991 4175 4211 4309 4503 4089 4740 4825 4857 
4985 5091 5137 5179 5245 5207 5271 5273 5285 5293 5317 5885 
5889 5890 5915 5909 5989 0007 0053 0073 0087 0091 0109 01.53 
0197 0203 0241 0301 0347 0349 0377 0447 0471 0489 0,531 0547 
0509 0583 ()002 0075 0070 0701 0737 0899 0933 0959 0985 7123 
7125 7127 7173 71906' 7221 7237 7239 7287 7307 7320 7,329 7453 
74.55 7517 7535 7.595 7023 704J 7073 7093 7703 7793 7831 7877 
7889. 
Astronomy and Meteorology. 

332 1257 5227. 
Astro-physical. 

1179 1353 2321 4911. 
Magnetic. 

175. » 

Magnetic and Meteorology. 

73 87 347 5!»7 755 853 0597 7083 7203 7327 7328^ 7495 7505. 
Meteorology. 

25 09 70 253 209 270 303 325 349 581 003 005 089 724 709 810 
959 1031 1257 1879 2217 2393 2035 2791 2795 2811 2833 2897 
2899 4730 4857 5910 0089 0203 0.533 0703 7129 7107 7179 7187 
7190 7203 7247 7307 7549 7555 7557 7019 7027 7094 7907. 
Naval (Nautical). 

447 1188 4305 7127 7239 7023. 
Physical. 

349 ,3427 0591 7479 7710. 



174 LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 

Selenographic. 
4547«. 
Tellurian. 

Unclassified. 

8G 128 158 5S2a 1218 1G20 2408 2952 2982 5268 5794 7316. • 

XI. — Societies. 
Aborigines Protection. 

.5353. 
Acclimatation. (See also Agriculture, Naturalists, Zoology.) 

81 815 921 967/i 2077 3073 3121 3191 6571 7289. 
iEronautic. 

2439 2445 2725 3195 5357. 
African. 

1277 1497 3071 3159 6505. 
Against Abuse of Tobacco. 

2706. 
Agriculture. (See also Chemical, Agriculture, Horticulture, ludustry, 
and Science.) 
13 27 334 395 779 983 1079 1101 1117 1151 1171 1177 1241 1255 
1355 1551 1743 1943 1987 1997 2049 2069 2111 2173 2181 2209 
2287 2307 2349 2383 2421 2679 2761 2887 2939 2967 3033 3039 
3047 3185 3376^ 3379 3733 37993819 3841 3845 3865 4215 4217 
4249 4349 4365 4399 4483 4515 4555 4613 4705 4763 4831 4851 
4905 4913 4961 5057 5124 5289 5657 6003 6057 6135 6309 6321 
6453 6457 6757 7238 7267 7527 7819. 
Agriculture and Arts. 

2983, 
Agriculture and Botany, 

1597 1703. 
Agriculture and Commerce. 

2009. 
Agriculture and Forestry. 

5087. 
Agriculture and Geography. 

1063. 
Agriculture and Horticulture. 

()37 1169 1693 2131 2275 2276 6913 7881. 
Agriculture, Archaeology, and Natural History. 

2893. 
Agriculture, Commerce, and Industry. 

210.", 1951 (;553. 
Agriculture, Horticulture, and Acclimation. 

2409. 
Agriculture, Industry, and Arts. 
2003 2317. 



LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 175 

Agriculture, Industry, Science, Arts, and Belles-Lettres. 

L\S79. 
Agriculture, Natural History, and Geography. 

1001. 
Agriculture, Natural History, and Useful Arts. 

2239. 
Agriculture, Science, and Arts. 

1793 1831 1!)77 201)9 2105 2199 2207 27S7 2805 2971 2995 4983. 
Agriculture, Science, Arts, and Belles-Lettres. 

188!) 197!) 2121 2131 2797 2835 2953 2901. 
Agriculture, Science, Arts, and Commerce. 

1833 2029 2175. 
Agriculture, Science, and Literature. 

2793. 
Alpine. 

1240 1219 1251 1382 3113 3815 3919 4597 0979 7749. 
Americans. 

2081. 
Anatomo-Pathology. 

1541. 
Anatomy. 

2G83. 
Anthropology. (See also ]^atural Science.) 

. 357 1285 1543 2241 2085 4157 4277 4093 iSSOd 4991 5319 7G09. 
Anthropology and Geography. 

7083. 
Anthropology, Ethnology, and Comparative Psychology. 

0305. 
Anthropology, Ethnology, and Primitive History. 

3091 3707 4835 4991. 
Antiquarian. (See also Germau Language, History, Natural Flistory. 
and Numismatics.) 

977 1749 1813 1989 2011 2324 2759 2799 2901 3981 5173 5713 5827 
7031 7035 7003 7091 7857 7800. 
Apothecaries. 

1279 1783 3043 3083 4235 4403 4!J27 4941 5715 7869. 
Aquarium. 

3085 5745 5939. 
Arboriculture. (See Pomology.) 

Archaeology. (See also Agriculture, Architecture, Arts, Uorticulture, 
Languages, Naturalists' Field Club, Natural Scieuces, l*ale- 
outology, Science.) 

21 981 1283 1447 1580 1021 1059 1073 1079 1083 1099 1871 1875 
1!)45 2014 2043 2072 2070 2325 2317 2381 2397 2813 2815 2829 
2915 2919 2941 2955 2957 3079 3755 4093 4391 4397 4535 4549 
4757 4793 5041 5315 5399 5573 5059 5717 5725 5741 5797 5841 
0013 0041 0107 0181 0243 0259 7015 7139 7194 7281 7301 7393. 



176 LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 

Archaeology and Natural History. 

5109 5235 5945 5953 59G3 G099. 
Archaeology and Numismatic. 

2721. 
Archaeology and Statistical. 

2909. 
Archaeology and Topography. 

5279 
Archaeology, History, and Literature. (See also History.) 

1707 1805 1893 1983 1985 2201. 
Archaeology, History, and Science. 

2921. 
Archaeology, History, Science, and Arts. 

2047. 
Archaeology, Literature, Science, and Arts. 

1877 1915 1985 2311 2315. 
Archaeology, Science, and Arts. 

1899. 
Archaeology, Science, and Literature. 

2977. 
Architects. (See Engineers, Naval Architects.) 
Architecture. 

2191 2237 2411 2695 3081 4567 5379 5681 0803 7611. 
Architecture and Archaeology. 

5121 51.33 .5215 5.321 5919 7137. 
Architecture and History. 

5875. 
Art and Archaeology. 

5005. 
Art and Industry. 

4537. 
Arts. (See Agriculture, Anthropology, Industry, Letters, Literature, 

Moral Science, Natural Science, Science, Statistics.) 
Arts and Sciences. 

. 79 749 991 1009 1891 2025 2001 2139 2997 5049 0875 6937, 
Arts, Manufactures, and Commerce. 

5721 6461. 
Artists. 

3107. 
Asiatic. 

599 629 639 669 713 777 2087 5001 6340. 
Astronomy. 

2089 4583 5335 5663. 
Ballad. 

5745o. 
Bee Culture. 

1944 3017. 



LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 177 

Bee Culture and Entomology. 

209;]. 
Belles-Lettres. (Sec Ai;ri(nilturo, iScicncos, and Belles-Lettres.) 
Benevolence. 

1 IL'I 14U;> ll'JT 47UO G5;J8 7471 7553. 
Bibliophilist, 

1()(;:5 11)51 2101 285.]. 
Bibliography. 

1941). 
Biology. 

2689 5898 (;()29. 
Blind. 

14;J5 2999 3301 3809 4097 4117 4511 4557 7023 7419 7815. 
Booksellers. 

3G77 4585 4G91 74G4 7(!81. 
Botany. (Sec also Ap;i'icultuie, Horticulture, Zoology.) 

105 223 1507 1711 1855 2243 2091 3111 3145 3758 4291 4575 4727 
4798 4929 4953 5005 0113 0455 G815 0887 0918. 
Botany and Zoology. 

1371 3870 3927. 
Brick and Lime. 

3719. 
Charts. 

7805. 
Chemical Agriculture. 

5997 0575 0701. 
Chemical Industry. 

5817//. 
Chemicals and Drugs. 

5979. 
Chemico-Physics. 

1289. 
Chemistry. 

1189 2703 3147 5337 5421 0021 7403. 
Chirurgy. (See also Natural Science, Mediciue.) 

2705 3153 ■>2 17. 
Choral, Dramatic and Literature. 

14.59. 
Civil Engineers. (Se<*. also Mineralogy.) 

lIG/> 2741 5531 G037. 
Civil and Mechanical Engineers. 

5129. 
Cllm-atology, Physical and Natural Sciences. 

15. 
Colonization. 

3183 3995 4051 5308 5071 08O0, 

H. Mis. 170 12 



178 LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 

Commerce. (Sec also Agriculture, Arts, ludustry, luterual Coinuierce, 
Litcniture.) 

2451 3171) 5301) 5405 55] 0. 
Commerce and Manufactures. 

28(J1. 
Commerce and Trade, 

48S5. 
Commercial Geography. 

1955 2155 2402 2733 3127 5048. 
Comparative Geography. 

7150. 
Comparative Psychology. (See also Autbropology.) 
Competition. 

1787 1905 1911 1979 2023 2000 2117 2140 2210 2213 2320 2365 2843 
2801 2873. 
Conchology. 

5297. 
Conversation. (See Lectures.) 
Cremation. 

3095. 
Criminal Psychiatry. (See Psychiatry.) 
Criticism. (See Science.) 
Cruelty to Animals. (See Protectiou.) 
Crystallogy. 

5440. 
Deaf and Dumb. 

2097 4017 4119 4085 4753 4755 4827 5237 0039 0071 0381 0021 7321 
7411. 
Debate. (See Literature.) 
Dentistry. 

3103 4591. 
Drugs. (See Chemicals.) 
Economico-Patriotic, 

4401. 
Economy. (See also Political, Popular, iSTatural Sciences.) 

2.j0a 351 508 573 771 1445 3993 7177 7217 7313 7415 7503 7559 
7629 7747. 
Education. (See also Social Education.) 

345 72Ls 2247 2784 3089 3221 4099 6230 7157. 
Electricians. 

877 1444 1557. 
Electrotechnics. 

3197. 
Engineers. (See also Telegraph and liailroad Engineers.) 

203 420 1011 3085 5339 5729. 
Engineers and Architects. 

1385 1425 3975 4331 4077 0977, 



LIST OF F0RP:IGN COKRESrONDENTS. 179 

Engineering and Manufacturing, 

(il-iT. 
Entomology. (Sec also l>cc Cultuix'.) 

Ill 391 1293 1559 271 L 3087 3119 3175 3199 3839 ;59LM) 49(57 51(;3 
5G51 5881 03G3 6891 7101 7015 7751. 
Ethnography. 

1921 2713. 
Ethnology. (Sco Natural History, Natural ycience, Geography, and 

Authropoh>gy.) 
Epidemiology. 

5409. 
Exotic Plants, Domestication of. (Seii Accliinatatiou.) 
Exploration. 

1599 5035 7323. 
Field Club. (Sec Naturalists.) 
Fine Arts. 

1107 1913 2013 2005 2399 0151. 
Fine Arts and Literature. 

1599 7525. 
Fish. 

1137 1725 3177 4125 4551 4939 5103 5793 0043 0129 010:5 0901 7049. 
Fishing. 

112a, 738 13840 3870c! 4790 5500 0811 0952 7158. 
Flax. 

3101 5999. 
Flora and Horticulture. 

5073. 
Folk Lore. 

29 5179 7013 7543<t 7580rt. 
Forestry. (Sec also History, Agriculture.) 

3001 7 I94^t 7407 7099. 
Forges and Dock-yards. 

2925 7055. 
Free Trade. 

3203 3709 4315. 
Geography. (See also Agriculture, Anthropology, Coiniuercial Geogra- 
phy, History, Scieuce, Statistics.) 
23 01 85 155 375 451 153 547 613 715 705 791 793 818 8814037 1057 
1097 1315 1335 1423 1457 1545 1727 1981 2101 2119 2195 2219 
2255 2291 2351 2:555 2385 2731 2837 2805 2943 2959 3213 3793 
3899 3977 4075 4219 4273 4289 4293 4335 4407 4437 4095 4707 
4785 4799 5071 5073 5808 0003 0105 0337 0093 0791 7135 7159 
7103 7213 7325 7:395 7501 7531 7015 7735 7801' 7823a. 
Geography and Ethnology. 

0748. ' • 

Geography and Natural Sciences. 
4525. 



180 LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 

Geography and Statistics. 

317 511 4075. 
Geology. (See also Mineralogy.) 

455 G17 721i SS2 883 1009 1094 1317 1G25 2157 2197 2735 3151 3897 
5327 5341 5495 5499 5801 5847 5897 G119 G185 G459 GG94 73C1 
7G53. 
Geology and Science. 

5239. 
German Languages and Antiquities. 

3097 3105. 
Gynaecology. (See also Obstetrics.) 

4287. 
Greek Studies. 

2471. 
Hellenic Studies. 

5725. 
Heraldry. 

History. (See also Anthropology, Architects, Litcratnre, Natural Sci- 
ence.) 
17 333 231 1073 1109 1147 1223 1709 1733 1785 1799 1823 1857 1947 
2073 2179 2717 2737 2739 2801 2857 2911 2957 3013 3029 3031 
3045 3057 30G3 3221 3G87 3G97 3725 3728 3730 3759 3701 3797 
3835 3861 3871 3803 3907 3931 3985 4005 4041 4105 4121 4139 
4233 4241 4275 4313 4337 4345 4379 4395 4501 4503 4541 4542 
45G5 4577 4G97 4711 4751 4773 4787 4791 4803 4877 4880 4889 
4903 4925 4963 4981 5075 5097 5329 5513 5675 6041 6117 6469 
6929 6945 6975 7397 7775 7821 7825. 
History and Antiquities. 

3903 4003. 
History and Archgeology, 

1555 1805 1835 2031 2041 2051 2141 2167 2177 2203 2331 2433 2789 
2807 2871 2S91 2957 3011 3015 4031 •j071 4221 4269 4:}1»;5 4429 
4431 4569 4703 4717 4739 4779 4859 4949 4965 5079 5083 6036 
6081 7015 7263 7711 7799. 
History and Fine Arts. 

1907. 
History and Natural History. 

3905. 
History and Science. 

2889. 
History and Statistics. 

4083. 
History and Topography. 
3979, 



LIST OF FOEEIGN COU'RESPONDENTS. 181 

3£istory, Antiquities, and Geography. 

41((i. 
History, Antiquities, and Philology. 

G879. 
History, Geography. 

377. 
History, Geography, and Ethnography. 

439. 
Historic Philology. 

7305 7379. 
Horology. 

olO.") 57Sr> G103 G137. 
Horticulture. (See also Agricultnre, Pomology, Science.) 

1077 1113 1201 15G9 1G19 1S37 1957 2007 2055 2071 2075 2091 2125 
2JG9 2257 2278 2313 23G7 2435 2G99 2855 2885 2905 2917 2987 
3209 3237 3705 3791 3873 4009 4027 4055 4147 4213 4795 4895 
4995, 5043 5G77 G115 G359 7299 7391. 
Horticulture and Botany. 

1487 189(» 1901 2243 2290 2293 2435 3921. 
Horticulture and Natural History. 

2353. 
Plorticulture and Vine Culture. 

1988 2045 2323 2423. 
Horticulture, Vine Culture, and Forestry. 

2963. 
Humane. 

5G79. 
Humanitarians. 

1959. 
Hydrcmomical and Hautical Engineers. 

5533. 
Hygiene. (See Public Ileal tli.) 
Inebriety. 

5712. 
Indo-Chinese Studies. 

586 2719. 

Industry; 

1015 1225 1253 1613 1817 2115 2123 2198 2267 2299 2709 2821 2859 
2907 3707 3885 4709 4789 4999 6289 6871 7141. 
Industry and Commerce. 

1701 4885. 
Industry and Agriculture. 

757 1825 2089. 
Indusfr-y, Manufacture, Agriculture, Science, and Art, 

2153. 



182 LIST OF FOEEIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 

Industry, Polytechnics. 

1080 1115. 
Instruction. (See Agriculture, Art, Chemical Industry, Iron ludiistry, 

Literature, Public Instruction.) 
Instruments. (See Scieuce, Scientific Instruments.) 
International Commerce. 

3119. 
International Law. (See Law.) 
Iron Industry. 

1129. 
Japanese, Chinese, Tartar, and Indo-Chinese Studies. 

2719. 
Jurist. 

11 19 129S 3181 3239 3G81 4059 7035, 72G9. 
Knowledge. (See Useful Knowledge.) 
Language and Archaeology. 

4595. 
Latin. 

27 IG. 
Law. 

1523 1589 41 G9 5417 G857 G045 7033 7209 7413. 
Lectures and Scientific Conversation. 

G389 7803. 
Legal. (See also Medico Legal.) 
Legislation. 

2743. 
Letters. (Sec also Science, Moral Science.) 
Letters and Science. 

iik;. 

Letters, Sciences, and Art. 

1G27 1GG5 1803 1809 18G1 1883 1918 20.35 2109 2327 2407 2415 2785 
2839 29G5 5732. 
Linguistics. 

2745 4321. 

Linnean. 

799 1571 1789 1819 1829 19G1 2015 2259 28G9 55G7. 
Literature. (See also Agriculture, Anthropology. Arts, Fine Arts, 
Science.) 
331 G25 G85 1157 1271 1273 1427 1631 1G47 1735 1T97 31G7 31G9 
3381 3G89 5453 5505 5G93 58vJ9 G227 G245 G2G1 GG88 G883 7013 
7197 7295 7331 73-35 7541 7897 7908. 
Literature and Art. 

1445 1507 lGfi9 1845 7249. 
Literature and Debate. 
595. 



LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 183 

Literature and History, 

157 1591 1()!)I. 
Literature and Philosophical. 

157a 5129 52S1 5301 5311 5331 5805 5833 5S51 5931 5937 5971, 
Literature and Science. 

147 327 1(587 1801 5211 5391. 
Literature, Science, and Arts. 

1811 2021. 
Literature, Science, Commerce, and Industry. 

1053. 
Malacology. 

1501 2880 4019 (;30f) GG05. 
Manufactory. (Seo also Arts, Commerce, Engineering-, Industries.') 
Mathematics. 

3387 5585 7227 7283. 
Mathematics and Natural History. 

5000. 
Mechanical Drawing. 

2249. 
Mechanical Engineers. (See also Mineralogy.) 

5529. 
Mechanics, (See also Civil Engineers.) 

3847 5587 5853. 
Mechanics and Optics. 

3155. 
Medicine. (See also Natural History, Natural Science, Practical Medi- 
cine.) 

205 278 311 315 329 309 374 493 501 735 751 903 1141 1211 1443 
1401 1547 1595 1590 10.33 1745 1805 1903 2017 20.39 2127 2171 
2193 220;5 2209 2295 2387 2747 27 19 2803 282.". 2803 2883 3095 
3117 3235 3701 3751 3901 4019 4783 5403 550<> 5521 5597 6.247 
0700 7003 7145 7319 7497 7529 7807 7813 7!>15. 
Medicine and Natural Sciences. • 

513 1575 4137 4.357 4415 4899. 
Medicine, Chirurgy, and Pharmacy. 

2917. 
Medical Chirurgy. 

277 1489 1035 1905 1907 2297 3393 5594 5G8 j G139 6311 6479, 
Medical Legal. 

2751. 
Medical Pedagogy. 

.). );h. 
Medical Pharmacy. 

200 271 1903 2133 2185 2205. 
Medical Physics, 

051 4033 40G3 5099 7255. 



l84 LIST OF FOREIGN (DORRESPONDENtS. 

Medical Psychology. 

2754 5410. 
Melophiles. 

IGOS. 
Medical Statistics. 

3187. 
Merchants. 

3131. 
Meteorology. 

15 77 1383 2439 2755 4285 4530 4733 5G87 GUI 6488. 
Microscopy. ( 3ce filso ISTatunil History.) 

1541) 3L'i9 433!) 51G1 5220 5G49 5G89. 
Military. 

3000 3300 7025. 
Military Science. 

1370, 
Mineralogy. (See also Zoology.) 

321 2757 4578 5G07 7407. 
Mineralogy, Geology, and Palaeontology. 

5034. 
Mineral Industry. 

2881. 
Mining. 

ICGl 4001 5219 5007 G107 G201. 
Mining and Civil Engineering. 

5123. 
Mining and Mechanical Engineers. 

5837. 
Mining and Smelting. 

1123 4520. 
Miscellaneous. 

1034 5370 5383c 5508 7084. 
Missionary. (See also Tlieolo^'y.) 
Moral Sciences, Letters, and Arts. 

2080. 
Moravian.. 

4385. 
Montanistic. 

3023 4001 4021 4077. 
Museum. 

1885 2831 3837 4719. 
Mycology. 

2758. 
National Economy. 

7GG06, 



LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENT? 185 

iJaturalists. 

1005 1233 15S5c 4013 40G9 4107 4151 4251 4G23 47G5 5115 51G5 
5207 52GGr? 5307 5S45 G4S3 G980 71G9 7223 7229 7235 7259 7315 
7339 74G9 7G7k> 7705 7715 7745 7773 7S05 7.S28 7853 78G7. 
Naturalist and Acclimatation. 

970. 
Natural and Economic Sciences. 

G573. 
Naturalists' Field Club. 

141 879 51G8 5223 5259 5277 5343 ,^>800 5807 5823 5825 .5839 mil 
59G5 5980 5995 GIOO. 
Natural History. (Sec also Agricultnro, Aiitliropoloiiy, History, Horti- 
culture, l^bysics.) 
S3 127 179 211 319 491 515 G14 753 802 SG5 893 990 1047 1593 17G3 
2037 2403 2945 3019 3027 3049 3059 3223 3737 38(53 3901 4125 
4231 4355 4493 4531 4781 4879 4893 50.35 51 11 5127 5155 5205 
5247 5835 5899 5913 5955 59G5 5977 5985 G025 (1093 G195 G391 
G4G5 GS23 G8GL 7028 7207 7211 7G13 7841. 
Natural History and Antiquarian. 

5287 5893 GlOl G205 7317 7341. 
Natural History and Ethnology. 

721. 
Natural History and Language, 

1737. 
Natural History and Medicine. 

1103. 
Natural History and Microscopy. 

5141. 
Natural History and Philosophy, 

GOOl. 
Natural and Medical Sciences, 

743 2991 3741 3929 G795. 
Naturalists and Physicians. 
3005. 

Naiaral Sciences. (See also Gcolo<?y and History, Lei^al JMetliciue, 
JMatliematics, Pharmacy, Physical and Natural iSciences.) 
1023 1037 1095 1213 1229 12G7 1377 1433 1G29 1917 2033 2059 2113 
2148 2419 2825 2851 3739 3779 3801 3851 3SG7 39G5 3983 4007 
408G 4103 4131 4223 4251 4253 4303 4329 4357 44G7 4509 4579 
4721 4729 4743 4745 4883 4891 4907 4932 4935 50G3 5085 5113 
5217 G211 G555 6G07 G779 GS61 G92G 7189 7705 7721 77GI 77G9 
7771 7823 7833 7843 7847 7851 7853 78G7. 
Nautical Engineers. 'See Hydrometric Engineers.) 
Naval. 

70G5. 



ISn LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 

Naval Architects, 

5535. 
Naval Physicians. 

7245 7457. 
Neurological. 

5G22. 
Numismatic. (See, also, Aiitliropology.) 

1.381 1503 .3407 30G7 4333 4707 .5G25 .581.5. 
Numismatic and Antiquarian. 

129. 
Obstetrics and Gynaecology. 

3215 4607 5029. 
Odontological. 

5631. 
Ophthalmology. 

4371. 
Oriental. 

3180 4237 7273 7483 791T. 
Ornithology. 

1391 3075 3103 3409 3769 4255 5783 7809. 
Palaeontology. (See Mineralogy.) 

393 1502 5033 7701. 
Palaeontology and Archaeology. 

^ 583. 
Patent. (See Protection of.) 

4045. 
Pathology. (See Anatomieal Patliology.) 

5037. 
Patriotic. 

4401 0407. 
Pedagogy. (See Medical Pedagogy.) 

1438 7206 7098. 
Pharmacy. (See Medicine.) 

310 1393 1465 1505 1843 1909 2101 2705 5225 5639 00.55 0145 0807 
7143 7171 7377 7919. 
Pharmacy and Natural Sciences. 

4417. 
Philology. (See History.) 

1001 1800 2707 3211 .3415 3747 5181 5641 6230 6.333 7359 7905. 
Philomathic. 

1971 2019 2769 2877 2979. 
Philosophy. (See Natural Tlistory, Literature.) 

41 830 901 927 942 968 3417 5142 5183 5987 0031 0199 0919. 
Philosophy and Science. 

.5917. 
Philotechnic. 

2174. 



LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 187 

Photography. 

1395 3119 3711 3971 5G43. 
Phrenology. 

G45G. 
Physical and Natural Sciences. 

571 1973 2919 7S75. 
Physicians. (Sec Naturalists, Naval Pliysicians, Practical riiysicians.) 

1093 1319 1413 3099 3101 3103 3207 4023 4087 4113 4133 4271 
4359 4433 4435 4523 5039 5009 53S4 5G(;7 5GG9 G059 C149 7205 
7219 7245 7457 7G79 7G95. 
Physicians and Surgeons. 

3G79 G183. 
Physico-Economy. 

4553. 
Physics. (See Medico-Pliy.sic, Cliemico-Pliysics.) 

3421 3821 5G 15 «1 55. 
Physics and Natural History. 

7805. 
Physiography. 

7G39. 
Physiology. 

3423 3823 4035 4G27. 
Political Economy. 

1953 2245 4257. 
Polytechnic. (See Iiulnstry and Geology.) 

1195 1370 2771 30G5 3431 3825 ;;885 3933 4029 4127 4149 4341 4443 
4G29 4837 4853 4875 4999 5081 5101 5109 52G3 5345 03 IG G527 
G5G7 0755 7039 7345 7399 7409. 
Pomology. 

2215 22G5 3021 47G9 4923 4837. 
Pomology and Arboriculture. 

2053. 
Pomology and Horticulture. 

47G9. 
Popular Economy. 

3G99 3713 3715. 
Popular Enlightenment. 

7200. 
Poultry-Friends. 

3141 4043 4155. 
Practical Medicine. 

2753. 
Practical Physicians. 

7343. 
Prison. 

2730 3913 3989 .5037 7703. 



188 LIST OF FOREIGN CORRKSPONDENTS. 

Promotion of Studies. 

2709 2717 2719 5723 5725. 
Protection of Animals. 

1439 1573 2773 3025 3075 3760 3917 4043 4239 4311 5047 75G1. 
Protection of Patents. 

3189. 
Psychiatry. 

3704 7470. 
Psychiatry and Forensic Psychology. 

1431^ 
Public Analysts. 

5731. 
Public Health. 

737 2183 2723 3157 3743 4319 43G3 4735 G463. 
Public Instruction. 

1807. 
Public Library. (See Propagation of 2720.) 
Public Welfkre, 

3129 4700 6273 G943 7047 7707 7753 7797. 
Publishing. 

5379. 
Hailroad. 

3083 4057. 
Railroad Engineering. 

3093. 
Eecord. 

5024. 
Science. (See Humanitarian, Literatnre, Industry, Letters, Geology, 
Horticulture, Art, Anthropology, Agriculture, Physiology.) 

4G 91 131 222 307 309 303 305 3S9 449 474 53G 540 548 Sdo 827 845 
847 857 905 1197 1441 1443 14G3 1577 1579 1584 1594 1G39 1G44 
1G49 1739 1827 18G9 1881 1975 1995 2077 2079 2143 2253 23G3 
2389 2395 2409 2472 2729 3717 3729 4089 4099 4123 4153 4173 
4297 4317 4475 4G03 4011 4771 48G5 4869 4901 4931 5143 5243 
5383 5389 5401 5695 5707« 5795 5813 GOOl G159 G182 G277 G315 
6539 6617 6695 676*7 6785 6821 6858 6869 6915 6962 7007 7073 
7183 7199 7208 7441 7687 7759 7909. 
Science and Archaeology. 

2105. 
Science and Arts. (See Arts and Sciences.) 
Sciences, Ar^, Agriculture, and Horticulture. 

2103. 
Sciences, Arts, Belles-lettres, Agriculture, and Industries. 

290;;. 
Sciences, Arts, and Literature. 

5257 C285. 



LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 189 

Science and Belles-Lettres, 

Science, Belles-Lettres, and Arts. (See LetLcrs, iScieiicc, and Arts.) 
Scientific Criticism. 

300;]. 
Science and Geography. 

3(i(». 
Science and Letters. 

VJVJ. 
Science, Letters, and Arts. (Sec Letters, Sciences, and Arts.) 
Science and Literature. 

L>(!8(). 
Science, Literature, and Art. 

' 7249. 
Science and Industry. 

5184. 
Seismology. 

I OO. 

Sheep Breeders. 

1221. 
Silk Culture. 
■ 2351). 
Social and Female Education. 

5G18. 
Social Science. 

5G17. 
Spectroscopists. 

GGDl . 
Statistics. (See History, Anthropology, Geogiapliy.) 

2135 2301 2727 2775 5731) 0850. 
Statistics, Sciences, and Arts. 

2425 2895. 
Stenography. 

3GG7 5710. 
Students. 

2832. 
Study of Greek. 

2471. 
Study of Modern Languages. 

;]093. 
study of Roman Languages. 

2357. 
study of Various Languages. 

2159. 
Surgeons. (See riiysicians, Sm-geous, Veterinary Sarg-eous."' 

4039 4087 4181. 



190 LIftT OF F<JKEIGN CCiiKE.SFONDEriTS: 

Teachers. ' 

lo.j.j 31!l!."> 7757. 
Technology. 

7;J45 i:'A)U 7409. 
Telegraph Engineers. 

.'3733. 
Temperance. 

2728. 
Theology (including Missionary Societies and Missions). 

2225 273'J 3433 4105 41G;j 4275 o:y.)6 5580 5717 5723 5727 GOl 1 02^.7 
G205 G41S G830 0882 7053 70G7 7351 7911. 
Therapeutics. 

2777. 
Topography. (See History, Anthropology.) 

13G7 27G3 2770 G330 7811. 
Tourist. 

1249 1251 1382 2503 3143 3919 4079 4597 4797c G717 (;07!) 7544^^0 
Translation of Japanese. 

731. 
Typography. 

2781. 
Useful Knowledge. 

5795 G805 
Useful Research. 

5051 G7G5 7045. 
Vegetarian. 

3173 5819. 
Veterinary. 

209;'> 4984, 
Veterinary Surgeons. 

3703 1749 5045. 
Wine. 

870. 

VSTine Culture. 

4997. 
Zoology. (8ee liotuiiy.) 

397 1471 2187 2783 3171 40G1 4322 5789 G0G9 G541 G779 G79!) 0889 
0909 0925. 
Zoology and Acclimatation. 

911. 
Zoology and Botany, 

1371 0849. 
Zoology and Mineralogy. 

J93;5. 

Xll.-Sruvijv.s. 
Archeeology. 

079. 



LIST OF FUliElGN COKKESl'ONDENTS. 



191 



Art and Historic Moniuneuts. 

13U0. 
Coast and Geographic Survey. 

iiUiu. 
Ethnology. 

1197. 
Geography. 

L'Ul. 
Geology. (See also Geology and Natural Ilistory,) 

:n m: ici Gi;5 717 <s2i) -ss;} 9l'5 dki 9(;i 071 lo'Ji 3313 4005 

11)77 5107 003.'5 G133 G'iOl) 7105 7G51. 
Geology and Natural History. (See also Natural ilistory.) 

113. 
Land Improvement. 

33 7 G. 
Meteorology and Trigonometry. (See also Tri^^ouometry.) 

711. 
Natural History. 

1103. 
Scientific. 

1507 GllG 7020 7323. 
Topography. 

3321 4829 7177 7725. 
Trigonometry. 

G71 5035. 

XIII. — Univeksities. 

2238 00 100 107 112125 IGl 101 200 237 211 210 323 320 353401 410 
113 195 517 .530 551 .5G3/> 575 583 GG2 70Saa 739 7GS 811 831 
909 933 995 1025 lOGl 1081 1105 1129 1113 1159 1201 1205 
13G9 1505 1G03 IGll 1651 1777 20G7 2083 2271 23G1 2509a 3307 
3719 3829 1037 4111 1111 4197 1225 1217 4375 1127 4519 15G1 
4087 4747 4847 4043 4975 5055 5105 .3201 5777 5807 0027 G097 
6100 0171 0173 0187 0215 0216 6210ft G210c 0249 0313 0387 0477 
0.537 0551 0585 0593 GGOO 0088^/ 0703 0719 G813 0^03 0903 0011 
0050 0083 7085 7175 7201 7215 7225 7233 7257 7405 7521 7505 
7017 7032 701L 7085 7717 77G7 7879. 



Colleges and ScnooLS. 



Anatomy. 

0307. 
Agriculture. 



101 287 70S/> 72bi 022 1000 1323 1001 17.53 2.330 2428 .'J014 3.3.33 
4010 4122 4177 4389 1917 500S 523S G310rtG110 0013 0707 
0919 7570 7059. 



192 LIST OF FOREIGN COKKE.-5PONDENTS. 

Agriculture and Forestry. 

7-!l)7 7o28. 
Agriculture and Veterinary. 

32(K?;574o411i. 
Architecture. 

2o;'>5 ;:5i:!)l. 
Artillery Schools. (See Military Schools.) 
Art. 

800. 
Arts and Manufactures. 

2519. 
Civil Engineering. 

G07 253.3 G(J87 0739. 
Commerce. 

lOU 1071 1203 1137 3022 3853 3909 4025 0384 7271 7058. 
Designs and Mathematics. 

2523. 
Divinity. 

0257 7887. 
Education. 

2.39 2429 0351. 
Engineering. 

291 539 739 1853 2533 5213 5947 7385 7.509. 
Engineering and Architects. 

0417. 
Fine Arts. 

22815855 0511. 
Forestry. 

2375 3041 4849 4807 7407. 
Gymnasium. 

1027 1075 1181 1247 1347 3035 3904 3997 4325 43G4c 4461 4081 4741 
4801 4897 4921 4957 5093. 
High School. 

1237 1239 2525 0335 0G03 7827. 
Industry. 

997 1300. 
Industry and Mines. 

1000. 
Law. 

739. 
Literature. 

739. 
Medicine. 

289 541 505 040 088 739 1211 2185 2230 2333 2379 2391 2521 2931a 
0183 0207. 



LIST OF FOKEIGN CORIJESPONDENTS. 193 

Medicine and Pharmacy. 

L>28L' 2;577 2391. 
Medico Chirurgery. 

(;:;> 33SD 330 L G;;73 0521 C709 7107 7151 738 1 7523. 
Military Engineering Schools. (Sec Military Schools.) 
Mines. 

288 431 540 11(55 KJH 2527 3318 5092 5073 73G5. 
Military (including Artillery, Engineer, and Staff Schools). 

108 409 539 1313 1305 2124 2475 2517 2518 2537 2875 3325 337;i 
3001 5205 508 'l 5083 G337 0330 0743 0745 0827 7105 7383 73,^5 
7387 7417 7151 7185. 
National Economy. 

4257. 
Natural Sciences. 

240. 
Naval Schools. 

J 005 1203 3805 40 15 4214 4228 520!) 0383 ({385 0300 7100 7435. 
Normal. 

110. 
Oriental Languages. 

1340 2520. 
Pharmacy. 

2185 2230 2330, 2538. 
Political Economy. 

4257. 
Political Sciences. 

2520. 
Polytechnic. 

1053 1203 1207 1303 1707 2531 3007 3371 3770 .3840 3850 3883 4351 
4451 1813 5023 017!> 0255 0.310 0.383 0445 0487 0527 0507 0753 
0750 0820 7111 7400 7002 7074. 
Preparatory. 

203. 
ileal. 

102'.> 1001 1183 1357 4070 4807 4000 4955. 
Sanscrit. 

000. 
Science. (Sec also Uiiivcrcjities.) 

7 45 03 07 135 183 189 191 201 225 243 257 207 ;;8(» 459 405 495 
583 021 057 075 090 005 lOSa 730 715 807 804 075 1110 1153 
1173 1185 1243 1933 2505 3030 4770 5145 5185 5107 5209 5243 
5251 5305 5501 5092 5777 5803 5817 5820 5801 58(53 5871 5025 
5020 5007 0001 0005 0015 001!) 004!) 0070 0083 (5085 0100 0179 
(5J(53 0285 (J315 0425 G441 6G53 GG72 0707 G773 7013. 
Staff Schools. (Sec Military Schools.) 

11. Mis. 170 13 



194 LISl OF FOREIGN COREESPONDENTS 

Theology. 

18G 324 583. 

Theology and Philosophy. 

4850. 
Veterinary Medicine. 

1753 6451 6535 6741 0939 7231. 

XIV. — Establishments receiving the Smithsonian Annual 

Reports. 

Africa. 

1 3 5 9 11 13 15 17 19 21 25 27 35 39 41 43 45 49 51 53 55 57 01 05 
07 09 71 73 75 77 79 81 87 89. 

British America, 

95 101 109 111 110i> 117 119 123 125 127 129 133 139 143 145 
147 14Sa 151 155 157 101 103 105 173 175 177 191 197 199 
209 211 217 222a 225 227 231 233 235. 

Central America. 
249 251. 

Mexico. 

201 205 207 271 275 277 278 285 287 289 291 293 295 297 303 
300 307 309 311 315 317 319 321 327 329 331. 

West Indies. 
333 335 337 339 343 347 349 351 353 357 359 300 300« 303 305 



307. 



South America. 



309 371 375 385 389 391 393 395 397 399 401 403 405 407 413 

417 421 423 425 435 439 415 447 449 .451 403 405 407 409 

471 473 474 477 483 485 487 489 491 493 495 501 503 515 

517 523 525 529 537 545 549 551 553 557 559 501 503 505 

567 573. 

Asia. 

579 583 593 597 .599 003 007 009 013 015 019 021 023 027 029 
030 031 033 035 037 039 041 042^ 043 047 049 053 055 000 
001 003 005 007 009 071 073 075 077 081 683 685 088 089 
090^093 007 703 705 709 713 715 721 727 729 739 745 749 
751 753 755 757 701 705 707 709 771 773 775 777. 

Australasia. 

779 781 783 784 785 787 789 791 795 797 799 800 801 805 811 
813 815 817 819 821 831 835 837 839 841 843 844 845 847 
849 853 857 859 801 803 807 809 871 873 875 877 881 882 
885 889 891 893 897 899 903 905 909 911 913 915 917 921 
923 925 927 929 931 935 941 942 943 945 947 949 951 953 
955 959 901 903 905 900 907 968 909 970. 



LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 195 

A ustvia- Hungary, 

977 979 983 9S5 987 989 991 993 995 997 999 1001 1003 1005 
1007 1009 1011 1013 1015 1017 1023 1025 1027 1029 1031 
1033 1039 1041 1043 lOGl 10G3 1005 10G9 1071 1073 1075 
1077 J 079 1081 1083 1087 1089 1091 1093 1094c 1094rZ 1095 
1097 1099 1101 1103 1105 1109 1111 1115 1117 1119 1121 
1125 1131 1131 ^> 1135 1139 1141 1143 1145 1147 1149 1151 
1155 1157 llGl 11G3 11G5 11G9 1171 1175 1177 1179 1181 
1183 1185 1187 1189 1191 1193 1195 1197 1199 1205 1209 
1211 1213 1217 1219 1221 1223 1225 1227 1229 1231 1235 
1237 1239 1241 1243 1247 1249 1251 1255 1259 12G3 12G5 
12G7 1271 1273 1275 1279 1281 1285 1297 1298 1299 1301 
1307 1311 1315 1317 1319 1321 1325 1327 1329 1333 1339 
1341 1343 1345 1347 1351 1355 1357 1359 1301 13G9 1371 
1375 1379 1383 1385 1389 1391 1395 1407 1411 1415 1423 
1433 1435 1430 1441 1445. 

Belgium. 

1447 1449 1453 1455 1457 14G1 1467 14G9 1471 1473 1475 1477 1479 
1483 1487 1489 1491 1493 1495 1501 1503 1505 1509 1511 1513 
1517 1519 1521 1523 1527 1533 1535 1537 1539 1545 1547 1549 
1551 1553 1559 15G1 15G3 15G5 1507 15G9 1571 1573 1575 1577 
1581 1583 1585 1587 1589 1591 1593 1595 1597 1599 IGOl 1G03 
1G05 1007 1009 IGll 1G13 1G15 1619 1621 1623 1625 1627 1629 
1631 1635 1637 1639 1641 1643 1647 1651 1653 1657 1659 1661 
1663 1665 1G67 1669 1671 1673 1675 1677 1679 1681 1683 
1685 1687 1689 1691 1695 1697 1701 1703 1705 1707. 

Benmarl,. 

1711 1715 1719 1723 1727 17351737 1739 1741 1743 1745 1747 1749 
1751 1753 1763 1767 1769 1771 1773 17751777 1779 1781 1783. 

France. 

17871793 1795 1799 1801 1809 1811 1813 1815 1817 1819 1821 1823 
1825 1827 1829 1831 1833 1835 1837 1841 1843 1845 1847 1851 
1857 1859 1861 1863 1865 1869 1871 1873 1875 1877 1879 1881 
1883 1885 1891 1893 1899 1905 1907 1909 1911 1915 1917 1919 
1921 1923 1925 1927 1929 1931 1935 1937 1939 1941 1943 1945 
1947 1951 1955 1957 1959 1961 1965 1969 1973 1975 1977 1979 
1983 1985 1987 1991 1995 1997 1999 2003 2005 2009 2011 2013 
2015 2017 2021 2023 2025 2027 2029 2031 2033 2035 2039 2041 
2043 2045 2047 2049 2051 2053 2055 2057 2059 2061 2063 2065 
2069 2071 2072 2073 2075 2077 2079 2080 2081 2085 2089 2091 
2093 1097 2099 2101 2103 2105 2109 2115 2117 2L21 2124 2125 
2127 2129 2131 2133 2135 2137 2141 2143 2149 2150 2153 2157 



196 LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 

2151) 2101 211)3 2105 21G7 2171 2175 2177 2179 2180 2103 2107 
2100 2201 1^203 2205 2207 220 ) 2211 2215 2221 22J3 2220 2233 
2235 2237 2230 2213 2240 2255 2259 22G1 22G3 22G5 22G7 22G9 
2273 2277 2.i70 22S1 2J85 2287 2201 2203 2205 2207 2200 2301 
2305 2307 230J 2311 2313 2315 2317 2310 2321 2323 2325 2327 
23 JO 2331 2333 2335 2341 2343 2347 2353 2355 2357 2350 23G5 
23G7 23G0 2371 2377 2383 2387 2380 2305 2307 2390 2401 2402 
2405 2407 2400 2411 2415 2417 2419 2421 2423 2425 2427 2429 
2431 2433 2435 2443 2453 2455 2457 2459 24G1 24G3 24G5 24G5e 
24GG 24G0 2471 2473 2475 2477 2479 2481 2493 2494 2499 2502b 
2503 2505 2507 2513 2517 2519 2527 2529 2531 2533 2535 2537 
2539 2541 2543 2545 2547 2519 2549c 2551 2553 2559 25G1 2503 
25G9 2575 2577 2579 2585 2589 2592i 2599 2G05 2G00 2G11 2G15 
2617 2G19 2G21 2G24 2C24a 2G2G 2627 2633 2G35 2636c' 2643 2655 
2659 5GG5 267 1 2G77 2070 2081 2683 2085 2687 2689 2691 2093 
2695 2097 2099 2701 2703 2705 2707 2700 2711 2713 2717 2710 
2721 2723 2725 2727 2729 2731 2735 2737 2739 2741 2743 2745 
2747 2740 2751 2755 2757 2758 2759 276 L 2765 2760 2771 2773 
2775 2777 2783 2785 2787 2780 2793 2797 27i)0 2801 2803 2805 
2809 2815 2817 2819 2821 2823 2825 2829 2831 2835 2837 2830 
2841 2843 2845 2847 2849 2851 2855 2857 2859 2861 2S63 2865 
2807 28G9 2871 2873 2875 2877 2879 2881 2883 2885 2889 2891 
2893 2895 2901 2003 2905 2907 2009 2011 2013 2015 2017 2910 
2021 2023 2925 2027 2020 2931 2032 2033 2037 2939 2!)41 2945 
2947 2949 2053»2955 2061 2067 2060 2071 2975 2977 2979 2983 
2987 2989 2991 2993 2995 2997. 

Germany. 

3001 3003 3005 3007 3000 3015 3010 3021 3023 3025 3027 3020 
3035 3039 31)45 3047 3040 3051 3053 3055 3050 3063 3065 3060 
3071 3075 3081 3085 3001 3003 3005 3111 3123 3120 3133 3147 
3149 3151 3165 3167 3171 3175 3177 3195 3206 3213 3221 3223 
3243 3245 3257 3273 3291 3295 3299 3301 3307 3300 3311 3313 
' 3323 3325 3327 3333 3337 3343 3345 3347 3353 3361 3305 3367 
;5371 3373 3383 3421 3423 3431 3433 3457 3450 3523 3540 3558 
3567 3571 3583 3585 3580 3503 3611 3623 3031 3630 3015 36G5 
3667 3075 3083 3085 3003 3007 3705 3707 3711 3710 3721 3723 
3727 3733 3737 3741 3745 3740 3753 3755 3757 3750 3771 3775 
3777 3770 3783 3787 3780 3701 3703 3705 3707 3799 3801 3803 
3805 3807 3800 3817 3819 382 J 3825 3827 3829 3831 3837 3839 
3841 3845 3847 3849 3851 3853 3855 3857 3859 3861 3863 3865 
3887 3809 3873 3875 3877 3881 3883 3887 3891 3893 3899 3901 
3905 3000 3920 3921 3925 3929 3933 3935 3937 3939 3945 3949 
3951 3955 3950 3061 3063 30G5 3000 30 Tl 3072 3975 3977 3981 
3983 3901 3999 4005 4007 4000 4011 4013 4015 4017 4010 4025 
4027 4029 4031 4033 4037 4047 4049 4053 4055 4061 4069 4071 



LIST OF FOREiaN CORRESPONDENTS. 197 

4075 4081 4083 4085 4095 40!>7 4107 11 1 1 41 !5 41 17 4119 4125 
4127 413L 4137 4139 4141 4143 41-17 4149 4151 4153 4155 4157 
4171 4173 4175 4197 4201 4203 4205 4207 4209 42 11 4213 4215 
4217 4221 4225 4231 4233 4235 4237 4243 4245 4247 4249 4251 
4253 4255 4203 4209 4273 4277 4281 4283 4289 4293 4297 4303 
4305 4307 4309 4311 4313 4317 4327 4329 4331 4335 4339 4341 
4343 4345 4347 4351 4355 43G5 4307 43G0 4375 4385 4389 4391 
4399 4401 4403 4413 4417 4419 4421 4423 4425 4427 4429 4441 
4443 4445 4451 4453 4455 4459 440I 4403 4405 1407 4471 4480 
4485 4489 4491 4493 4494 4495 4501 4505 4507 4500 451 1 4513 
4515 4517 4519 4521 4527 4529 4531 4537 4545 4551 4553 4555 
4557 45G1 4503 1509 4571 4575 4577 4579 4581 4583 4584 4587 
4589 4591 4001 4003 4005 4009 4011 4013 4015 4019 4021 4023 
4G25 4027 4029 4031 4035 4037 4047 4053 4057 4005 4075 4079 
4081 4083 4085 4093 4(595 4097 4099 4700 4701 4703 4705 4709 
4713 4715 4717 4721 4723 4725 4727 4729 4737 4739 4741 4743 
4745 4747 4755 4757 4709 4771 4775 4779 4781 4783 4785 4789 
4795 4799 4801 4803 4805 4807 4811 4813 4815 4817 4819 482 L 
4825 4831 4833 4835 4837 4841 4845 4847 4849 4851 48.~-)5 4857 
4859 4801 4803 4805 4809 4871 4873 4875 4877 4879 4881 4883 
4885 4887 4889 4891 4893 4895 4897 4899 4905 4907 4909 4911 
4913 4914 4921 4923 4925 4927 4929 4932 4935 493.7 4!>;'.!) 4941 
4943 4945 4947 4949 4951 4955 4957 4901 4903 49<;5 4907 4r)(!9 
4973 4975 4979 4981 4983 4985 4989 4991 4993 4995 4997 4999 
5001 5003 5005 501 1 5021 5023 5025 5033 5035 5037 5041 5043 
5049 5051 5055 5(>57 5000 5003 50(55 5007 5009 5071 5073 5075 
5077 5079 5081 5083 5085 5087 5089 5001 5093 5095 5097 5099 
5101 5105 5109 5111 5012 5113 

Great Britain. 

590 043 8575115 5117 5119 5121 5123 5125 5127 5131 5133 5137 5130 
5141 5143 5145 5147 5149 5151 5155 5157 5159 5101 5103 5105 
5107 5108 5109 5170 5173 5175 5177-5179 5181 5183 5185 5187 
5190 5193 5195 5197 5199 5201 5203 5205 5213, 5215 5217 5219 
5221 5225 5227 5229 5233 5235 5237 5239 5245 5247 5251 5253 
5255 5259 5201 5203 5205 5200rZ 5209 5271 5273 5275 5277 5279 
5281 5283 5285 5291 5297 5299 5301 5303 5305 5307 5309 531 1 
5313 5315 5317 5321 5323 5325 5327 5329 5331 5333 5337 5339 
5341 5343 5345 5347 5349 5351 5353 5355 5357 5359 5301 5303 
5305 5307 5309 5371 5373 5375 5377 5379 5381 5383 5387 5389 
5391 5393 5395 5397 5399 5401 5403 5405 5407 5411 5413 5419 
5421 5423 5427 5429 5431 5433 5435 5437 5439 5445 5449 5451 
5453 5455 5401 5403 5405 5407 54G9 5475 5477 5479 5481 5483 
5485 5487 5491 5493 5495 5497 5490 5501 5503 5505 5500 5507 
5509 5511 551!! 5515 5519 5521 5523 5525 5527 5529 5531 5533 
5537 5539 5541 5547 5549 5551 5553 5555 5557 5559 55G1 55G3 



198 LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 

55G5 55G7 55G9 5571 5573 5575 5577 5579 5581 5583 5585 5587 
5580 55!) I 5597 5G00 5G01 5G03 5G07 5G09 5G11 5G13 5G15 5G17 
5G19 5G21 5G23 5G24: 5G25 5G27 5G29 5631 5G33 5G35 5G37 5G39 
5G11 5G43 5G15 5G47 5G19 5G51 5G53 5G55 5G57 5G59 5GG1 5GG3 
5GG5 5GG7 5GG9 5G71 5G73 5G75 5G77 5G79 5G81 5GS3 5G85 5G87 
5G89 5G91 5G93 5G95 5G97 5G99 5701 5703 5705 5707 ^lOlh 5713 
5715 5717 5721 5723 5725 5727 5729 5731 5733 5737 5739 5741 
5743 5745 5747 5749 5751 5755 5757 5759 57G1 57G7 57G9 5771 
5775 5777 5781 5781^5785 5789 5791 5793 5795 5797 5799 5801 
5802 5803 5805 5807 5811 5813 5815 5817 5821 5823 5825 5827 
5829 5831 5833 5835 5837 5838 5839 5840a 5841 5343 5845 5847 
5849 5853 5855 5857 58G5 58G7 5871 5873 5879 5881 5885 5887 
5889 5893 5895 5897 5899 5901 5903 5907 5910 5911 5913 5915 
5919 5921 5923 5925 5929 5931 5933 5935 5937 5939 5941 5943 
5945 5947 5951 5953 5955 5057 5959 59G1 59G3 59G5 59G7 59G9 
5971 5975 5977 5981 5983 5985 5985ff 5987 5989 59915993 5995 
5997 5999 GOOl G003 G005 G007 (5015 C019 G021 G025 G035 C037 
G039 G048 G049 G051 G053 G055 G057 GOGl C0G5 G0G7 G071 G073 
G075 G079 G081 G083 G085 G089 GOOl G093 G095 G097 G099 GlOOh 
GlOl G103 G105 GlOG GUI Gil 5 G119 G125 G127 G131 G133 G135 
G139 G141 G143 G145 G147 G149 G151 G153 6155 6157 6159 6161 
GIG5 G1G7 6169 6171 6179 6181 6182^7 6183 6185 6187 6189 6191 
6193 6195 6197 6109 G203 6205 6207 6209 6211 6215 6219 6221. 

Greece. 
6227 6229 6231 6235 6239 6241 6243 6245 6247 6249. 

Iceland. 
6253 6255 6256 6257 6259 6261 6265 6267 6269 6275 6277 G279. 

Italy. 

0281 G283 0285 6287 6289 6291 6293 0295 6299 0301 0302 0307 0309 
0311 G313 6315 6316 631(ic6319 6321 6325 6327 6329 6331 0335 
0337 0341 0343 0317 6349 6351 0353 6355 6357 0303 0305 0307 
0;}71 0373 0375 0377 0379 0381 0383 0385 6387 0389 0391 0393 
0395 0390 0397 0399 G403 0405 G407 G413 0415 0417 0423 0427 
0429 0431 0433 0437 6439 0441 0443 0445 0447 0449 0451 0453 
0401 0403 0405 0407 0469 0470 0471 0473 0475 0477 0479 0483 
0487 0489 0491 6493 0495 G501 0503 0507 0511 0515 0517 0519 
G521 0523 0525 0527 0529 0531 0533 0535 G537 05376-0539 0541 
0543 0547 0549 0551 0553 0555 0557 0559 0500c 0563 6565 0507 
0571 G573 0575 0579 0581 G5S3 0585 0589 0593 0595 0597 0599 
0003 GG05 0007 0009 0611 6615 0017 0621 0023 0025 0027 0629 
6031 6633 6035 0037 0639 0043 0045 0G49 0G51 0653 6055 0057 
6659 GG61 0663 6GG5 6GG7 6071 6673 6675 6077 GG79 0681 0083 
0()85 GG87 G()88 (JGOl GG93 6G95 0697 6098 G399 G701 0703 0705 



LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 199 

6707 G700 G711 G713 G715 G719 G721 G725 G727 G729 G731 G733 
G735 G737 G739 G741 G742 G743 G745 G747 G749 G753 GTHT G759 
G7GL G7G3 G7G7 G771 G773 G775 G777 G779 G8S1 G783 G787 G789. 

Netherlands. 

C791 G794 G795 G797 G799 G803 G805 C807 G8()8 G809 0811 G813 G817 
6821 G823 G825 6827 6829 6831 6835 6839 6843 6845 6847 6849 
6855 6857 6859 6861 6863 6865 68G7 G869 6871 6873 6875 6877 
6879 6881 6883 6887 6889 6891 6893 6895 6897 6899 6901 6903 
6905 6913 6915 6917 6919 6921 6927 6929 6931 6933 6935 6937 
6939 6941 6943 6945 6947. 

Nor IV a If. 

6951 6953 6959 6961 6963 6965 0967 6969 6971 6973 6975 6977 6979 
6981 6983 6985 7003 7005 7009 7011 7015 7019 7021 7023 7025 
7027 7029 7031 7037 7039 7041 7047 7049 7051 7053 7055 7057 
7059 7061 7063 7065 7067 7009 7073 7077. 

Portugal. 

7079 7081 7083 7085 7087 7089 7091 7093 7095 7101 7103 7105 7107 
7109 7111 7113 7115 7117 7119 7121 7123 7125 7127 7129 7131 
7135 7137 7141 7143 7145 7147 7149 7151 7153 7155 7157. 

Roumania. 
7164c. 

Iiussia. 

7167 7169 7171 7173 7175 7177 7179 7181 7183 7185 7187 7194c 7195 
7197 7199 7201 7203 7205 7207 7209 7211 7213 7215 7217 7221 
7223 7225 7229 7231 7233 7235 7237 7239 7241 7243 7245 7249 
7251 7253 7255 7257 7259 7261 7263 7265 7267 7269 7271 7273 
7279 7281 7283 7287 7289 7291 7293 7^95 7297 7299 7301 7303 
7305 7307 7309 7313 7321 7323 7325 7329 7331 7333 7335 7337 
7339 7341 7343 7345 7347 7349 7350 7353 7357 7359 7361 7363 
7305 7307 7371 7373 7375 7377 7379 7381 7383 7385 7389 7391 
7393 7395 7397 7399 7403 7405 7407 7409 7411 7415 7417 7419 
7421 7423 7425 7429 7431 7435 7437 7439 7441 7443 7445 7447 
7449 7751 7453 7455 7457 7461 7463 74C9 7471 7473 7475 7477 
7479 7481 7483 7485 7487 7495 7497 7499 7501 7503 7505 7507 
7511 7513 7515 7517 7519 7521 7523 7225 7529 7531 7533 7537. 

Servia. 
5743. 

Spain. 

7545 7547 7551 7559 7561 7563 7565 7567 7569 7573 7582 7583 7585 
7587 7591 7593 7595 7597 7599 7001 7003 7005 7009 7011 7613 
7615 7617 7623 7625 7629. 



200 LIST OP FOREIGK CORRESPONDENTS. 

Sweden. 

7633 7039 7041 7643 7643rt 7644 7645 7651 7655 7657 7659 7661 7663 
7665 7667 7672 7673 7675 7677 7679 7685 7687 7689 7691 7694. 

Sicitzcrland. 

7699 7703 7705 7706 7707 7709 7711 7715 7717 7721 7723 7729 7731 
7733 7735 7737 7739 7741 7743 7745 7747 7749 7751 7753 7755 
7757 7759 7761 7763 7767 7769 7771 7773 7775 7777 7779 7781 
7783 7785 7789 7791 7793 7794 7795 7797 7799 7801 7803 7805 
7807 7809 7811 7813 7815 7717 7819 7821 7823 7823^7825 7827 
7831 7833 7837 7839 7841 7843 7847 7849 7851 7853 7857 7859 
7861 7863 7805 7867 7869 7871 7873 7875 7879 7881 7885. 

Tnrl;nj. 

7891 7893 7897 7899 7901 7903 7905 7907 7909 7911 7913 7915 7917 
7919 7921. 

XV. — Establishments receivinct the Smithsonian Miscel- 
LAJ^EOus Collections and Annual Keports. 

35 43 53 65 67 125 143 145 161 165 191 199 209 249 251 285 291 317 319 
351 363 385 417 423 471 495 503545 573 599 613 629 639 643 669 
685 697 727 739 749 753 771 805 811 857 897 909 903 900 1005 
1009 1023 1025 1041 1001 1081 1095 1099 1143 1185 1197 1199 
1205 1217 1273 1275 1299 1315 1317 1325 1327 1345 1359 1309 
1371 1493 1503 1537 1539 1559 1003 1039 1051 1005 1719 1739 
1749 1821 1923 1961 1999 2011 2015 2029 2057 2059 2081 2099 
2165 2199 2221 2239 2259 2277 2307 2333 2335 2347 2371 2417 
2431 2473 2475 2477 2527 2549 2553 2611 2615 2G17 2633 2099 
2709 2717 2731 2735 2759 2701 2817 2845 2931 2953 3019 3059 
3009 3151 3213 3295 3299 3313 3353 3705 3737 3749 3783 3807 
3829 3807 3881 3909 3925 3945 4013 4037 4009 4095 4111 4137 
4141 4151 4153 4197 4207 4209 4225 4231 4243 4247 4251 4253 
4283 4303 4307 4347 4375 4403 4489 4519 4553 4551 4571 4581 
4587 4001 4011 4075 4745 4747 4771 4775 4805 4819 4847 4879 
4887 4943 4907 4973 4975 4983 5021 5035 5055 5077 5085 5099 
5105 5139 5145 5179 5183 5201 5253 5203 5271 5301 5325 5331 
5349 5373 5389 5393 5399 5401 5411 5413 5421 5451 5403 5485 
5495 5527 5531 5553 5555 5559 5507 5581 5583 5001 5015 5041 
5657 5659 5661 5663 5669 5673 5077 5683 5689 5695 5707 5713 
5721 5739 5789 5805 5811 5817 5835 5867 5889 5!)10 5933 5981 
5983 5989 5991 6001 6005 6015 6019 6049 (5061 6067 6079 6083 
6085 6097 6106 6127 6143 6153 6159 6107 6171 6187 6193 6199 
6215 6231 6249 6265 6291 6315 6319 6327 6357 6371 6387 6397 
6415 6441 6501 6503 6519 6523 6549 6557 ()609 6623 6627 6629 
0655 6677 6695 6711 6771 6773 6777 6781 0797 6799 6803 6813 



LIST OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS. 201 

G821 CS43 CS15 GS47 08G.3 08G0 G873 G903 GO 15 GO 10 G920 G037 
G941 G043 G0r)3 G083 7073 7080 7005 7175 7183 7100 7215 7240 
7250 7330 7347 73G3 7371 7375 7380 7305 7407 7415 7475 7470 
7573 7597 7500 7()03 7G33 7G41 7G57 7GG1 7GG3 7(i85 7G87 7711 
7715 7721 7745 77G7 7781 7805 7833 7857 78G3 78G7 7801 7913. 

XVI. — ESTAELISIIMENT« RECEIVING THE SMITHSONIAN CONTRIBU- 
TIONS TO Knowledge, the Miscellaneous Collections, and 
THE Annual liEroRTS. 

35 43 53 65 G7 125 143 145 IGl 1G5 191 199 209 249 251 285 291 317 
319 351 3G3 385 417 471 495 503 545 573 599 G13 G20 (i.lO G43 
GG9 GS5 G!>7 727 730 740 753 771 805 811 857 807 000 0G(; 1005 
1009 1023 1025 1041 lOGl 1081 1005 1000 1143 1185 1107 1100 
4205 1217 127;; 1275 1209 1315 1317 1325 1327 1359 13G9 1493, 
1503 1539 1G03 1G39 1G51 1GG5 1719 1739 1749 1821 1923 lOGl 
1999 2(H1 2015 2020 2057 2050 2081 2009 21G5 2100 2221 2230 
2259 2277 2307 2;'.;53 2335 2347 2371 2417 2431 2473 2475 2477 
2527 2549 2553, 2G11 2(;i5 i;G17 2(533 2G99 2709 2717 2731 2735 
2751) 27G1 2817 2845 2931 2953 3010 3050 30G0 3151 3213 3295 
3291)3313 3353 3,705 .",737 3749 3783 3807 3,820 38G7 3881 3000 
3025 3045 4013 4037 40G0 4005 4111 4137 4141 4151 4153 4107 
4207 4200 4225 4231 4213 4247 4251 4253 4283 4303 4307 4347 
4375 44G3 4480 4510 4553 45()1 4571 4581 4587 4G01 4G11 4G75 
4745 4747 4771 4775 4805 4810 4847 4870 4887 4043 49G7 4973 
4975 4983 5021 5035 5055 5077 5085 5000 5105 5130 5145 5179 
5183 5201 5253 5203 5271 5301 .5325 5331 5340 5373 5380 5303 
5300 5401 5411 5413 5421 5451 54G3 5485 5405 5527 5531 5553 
5555 5559 5537 5581 5583 5G01 5G15 5G41 5G57 5G59 5GG1 5GG3 
5GG9 oG73 5G77 5G83 5G89 5G95 5707 5713 5721 5730 5780 5805 
5811 5817 5835 58G7 5889 5910 50.33 5081 5083 5080 5091 GOOl 
G005 G015 0010 G04!> 0001 0007 0070 0083 G085 0007 0127 (>143 
0153 01.50 0107 0171 G187 0193 G190 0215 G231 G240 0205 0201 
G315 G319 0327 0357 G371 0387 6397 G415 0441 C501 G503 0510 
0523 0540 G557 GOOO 0023 0G27 0020 0055 GG77 0005 0711 0771 
G773 G777 0781 0707 0709 0803 0813 0821 0843 0845 0847 0803 
G8G9 6873 C903 0015 G919 0929 0937 0941 6943 6953 6983 7073 
7089 7005 7175 7183 7100 7215 7240 7250 7330 7347 7,303, 7371 
73,75 7380 7305 7407 7415 7475 7470 7573 7507 7500 700;5 70.",3 
7041 7057 7001 7663 7685 7687 7711 7715 7721 7745 7707 7781 
7805 7833 7857 7803 7867 7801 7013. 



GENERAL APPENDIX 



SMITHSONIAN REPORT FOR 1886. 



203 



ADVERT! SEMEN^T. 



TIio object of tlio General Appendix is to fiirnisli smniuarios of 
;;(;i('.iiti(ic disciovery in particular directions; occasional rejtorts of the 
investi.ii'ations made by collaborators of the Institution; nienioirs of ;i 
jj;eneral character or on special topics, whether orii^inal and prej)ar<Ml 
expressly for the purpose, or selected from foreign journals and i)ro(;eed- 
iiiffs; and briefly to present as (fully as space will permit) such i)apers 
not published in the "Smithsonian (Jontributioiis" or in the "Miscella. 
neons Collections" as may be supposed to b(> of interest or value to the 
numerous correspondents of the Institution. 
204 



PAPERS RELATING TO ANTlIROiM )LOGY 
TUE KAY COLLEOTrON FKOM IIUPA liESEliVATiON, 



BY OTIS T. MASON. 



"The tiling that liath been it is that which sliall be, and that which 
is done is that whicli sliall be done, and there is no new thing under tlie 
sun." 

This axiom having commended itself to a wise man of antiquity, finds 
a new and wider verification in the court of modern science. 

Could we glean from each or any savage tribe of earth its apparatus 
for administering to its every desire, and discard therefrom the perish- 
able portions, we should have a technological exhibit not unlike our 
smaller cabinets of antiquities collected in a circumscribed area. 

Eeversiug the process, if we add to our ancient stone implements all 
the wooden, textile, leather, bone, and horn accompaniments of such 
things, as they are now found in a savage camp, we shall not be far 
from a correct picture of the industries which that ancient people i)rac- 
ticed, and we could easily guess the sort of life they led. AVe ought to 
inoceed with the utmost caution in this matter, for the following rea- 
son : Iluman inventions, like natural objects, go in companies and af- 
fect one another by contact and mutual action according to a law of mu- 
tual modification. Just as the bees and the honey-producing orchids 
have become mutually modified, so have num's devices in each depart- 
ment of iiulustry acted and reacted upon one another to produce change 
of form and structure. It is not enough, then, to compare an arrow-head 
of the past with an an'ow-head of the present. The student should thor- 
oughly exhaust the arch;eology of a mound, tomb, campsite, etc. Jle 
should also thoroughly scrutinize the industries, sociology, beliefs, and 
ceremonies of each modern tribe, in order to arrive at a broad generali- 
zation of past human history. 

The older archtcologists and technologists did not foresee the drift of 
modern studieS; and consequently did not attend to this matter with 
the minutiie now demanded. 

This fact is far from rendering all their treasures now in our posses- 
sion worthless. It only enjoins upon their successors the necessity of 
supplementing their work, and adding fourfold value to their collec- 
tions by a little cautious gleaning. . 

205 



206 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

The United States i^atioual Museum possessed a flue collection of 
ethnological material from uortheru California, gathered by Wilkes aud 
later explorers down to the centennial work of Stepheu Powers (Cont. 
to K. Am. Ethnol., III). lu order to bring- this material into shajie to 
illustrate the whole life of the Klamath River tribes, Lieut. P. H. Eay, TJ. 
S. Army, undertook while at Fort Oastou in 18S5 to collect material for 
this supplementary work. Most of the pieces described in this paper 
are from Lieutenant Ray's collection and bear testimony to the obliga- 
tion the ethnologist uiay be under to an armj" officer who will thus oc- 
cupy econouiically the leisure of post duties. 

Hoopa Valley Reservation, established in 1804 (Ind. Aff. Report, 
1804, 18G5, 186G), is IG miles long and 12 miles wide. The valley con- 
tains 1,200 acres of arable land, vvhich lies ou both sides of the Trinity 
River 8 miles above its junction with the Klamath. 

This romantic spot is reached by two days of mule travel from Areata, 
in Humboldt County, 40 miles away. The whole distance presents an 
unchanging wildness of mountain scenery, varied with somber forests 
of redtvood, and occasional patches of grazing land. 

In all this journey the traveler's communion with nature is little 
interrupted with signs of human habitation until his eye rests ou Fort 
Gaston, at the south side of Hoopa Valley. 

In the northern part of California, west of the Coast range, dwelt 
formerly the following stocks of Indians, speaking languages so radically 
different that philologists are unable to ascribe to these languages a 
common origin. 

(1) The Pacific slope branch of the Athapascan or Tinnean stock, in 
the extreme northwestern corner and far northward into Oregon. 

(2) Ehnikan, or Karok, between 123° west and Klamath River. 

(3) Shastian, 41^ to 43^ north, 122° to 123° west, in round numbers. 

(4) Weitspekau, or Yurok, around the lower Klamath. 

(5) ^Yeeyotan, or Wishoskan, on lower Eel Riv^er. 

(0) Kopean, or Wintun, west side of Sacramento River. 

Upon the Hoopa Reservation were placed by the Government, in 1864, 
a number of bands scattered around Trinity River. To them were 
added subsequently, the Redwoods, Seaws, Mad Rivers, and others 
from the neighborhood. These bands have been at various times 
named as follows (Spalding's Rept., 1870): 

Hoonsolton {Ath.) = Hunsating (Powers). 

Miscolt {Ath.) = Miskut (Powers). 

Sawmill (Perhaps Cernalton). 

Hostler {Ath.) = Hosier (Powers). 

Cernalton. 

Matilden {Ath.) = Mitilti (Powers). 

Kentuck {Ath.) = Alaakut. Niyaiiketeteui, Youtochetts: Yahnih- 
kahs (Dorsey and Mooney). 

Redwood. 



THE RAY COLLECTION FROM HUPA RESERVATION. 207 

Tishtangiitaug (A^-k) — Tisbtanatau ; Siaws (/U/t.) = Saiaz (Iiul. Aft". 
Kept.); lliimboklt. 

The Indian Aftairs reports of the last ten years have given Hiuisa- 
tung, lloopa, Klamatli River, Miskut, liedwood, Saiaz, Sermalton, 
Tislitanatau. 

Mr. Powers : (Cont. to N. Am. Ethnology, Vol III, 73) enumerates 
the Uunsatnng, Miskut, Hosier, Mitilti, Tishtanatan, Waykat, Chail- 
kulkaituk, Chautakoda, Wissomanshuh, Miskeloitok, Hasslintung. 

Commencing with 1865, the population of this reservation has been 
reported as follows : (5) G50 ; (G) 023 ; (7) 550 ; (S) 725 ; (9) 975 ; (1870) 

871; (I) 750; (2) 725; (3)725; (4) 6GG ; (5) 71G ; (G) ; (7)427; (8) 

427; (9)415; (1880)414; (1)480; (2)510; (3)508. 

Although a great majority of these bands belong to the Athapascan 
stock their arts have been so long in the leading-strings of this salmon 
prolific, acorn and redwood abounding regioi^, that in houses, dress, 
implements, and products of industry they do not ditt'er from their im- 
mediate neighbors. Lieutenant Ray gathered his specimens from the 
Natano (Tishtanatan) and Kenuck (Klamath Rivers), both assigned by 
Mr. Dorsey and Mr. Mooney to the Athapascan or Tinnean linguistic 
stock. 

The Hupa of former times are said by Mr. Powers : (Cont. N. Am. Eth- 
nology, III, 72) to have been the finest race in all that region next after 
the Karok on the lower Klamath, whom they excel in statecraft. " They 
were the Romans of northern California in valor and the French in lan- 
guage. They hold in a state of semi- vassalage (I speak always of abo- 
riginal acts) most of the tribes around them, except their two powerful 
neighbors on the Klamath, exacting from them annual tribute in the 
shape of j^eltry and shell money, and they compel all their tributaries 
to this day, to the number of about a half dozen, to speak Hupa in com- 
munication witli them. 

"Although they originally occupied only about 20 miles of the lower 
Trinity, their authority was eventually acknowledged about 60 miles 
along that stream, on South Fork, on New River, on Redwood Creek, 
on a good portion of Mad River, and Van Dusen's Fork; and there is 
gooil reason to believe that their name was scarcely less dreaded on 
lower Eel River, if they <lid not actually saddle the tribes of that val- 
ley with their idiom." This language applies to the Hupas before the 
mad hunger for gold had peopled California with human wolves. It is 
a startling but eloquent commentary upon their treatment and education 
to read later on: " The Hupas are not to-day any more enlightened, ad- 
vanced, progressive, industrious, or better oft" in any way than they 
were when the reservation was established about twenty years ago." 
(lud. Aft". Rep., 1881, G.) 

HABITATIONS AND WOOD AVORKING. 

The hills skirting the Trinity and Klamath Rivers, are covered with 
redwood trees, most grateful wood to savage artisans. Their soft trunks 



208 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

bavc bad iiuicli to do witli the mauueriu which houses, boats, otc.,bave 
been made. Ou the southward slopes of those hills habitations jire built 
to catch the more direct rays of the sun aud to shield the inhabitants 
from the merciless north winds (Fig. 1). With the art of the house-builder 
two implements in the Eay collection are intimately connected, the 
stone hammers (Figs. 2, 3, 4) and the elk-horn wedge (Plate X, Fig. 79). 

The hammers are of dark, heavy schist or basalt, bell-shaped, and fre- 
quently with greatly expanded tops or pommels. While the specimens 
agree in general outline, there is not the same conventionalism and hn- 
ish that are found farther north. 

These hammers are still nsed by the old men among the Hupas, but 
none of them are able to make one. Those now in possession are much 
battered, have been handed down for generations, and are highly ven- 
erated. 

The wedges are made of the antler of the wapiti or American elk 
{Cervus canadensis, Estlebeu), and are extremely hard.- A close in- 
spection of any collection of so-called bone imi)lements will reveal a 
large ]iercentage made of this substance. These antler wedges are used 
by canoe and house builders to split the redwood logs. By means of 
stone axes and fire a tall straight redwood was felled or one already 
IViHen cut the i)roper length. By means of a row of antler or wooden 
wedges and the stone hammer just described, deftly administered, slabs 
and puncheons of reqnire.d size were removed, and when necessary 
adzed down to a tolerable evenness. 

Especial care should be taken to distinguish these bell-shaped ham- 
mers from pestles (Fig. 52d). The latter are designed to mash, tritu- 
rate, or macerate something in a mortar of wood or stone. Coming in 
contact with the mortar chiefly at the edge of its base, the pestle must 
necessarily have a rounded bottom, and it may be safely asserted that 
no savage ever flattened or hollowed the bottom of an implement and 
carefully squared its l>ase for the purpose of knocking the rim ofl' the 
next moment. 

The mallet or stone hammer is designed to strike a wedge or handle 
of wood, bone, antler, etc. Coming in contact with these softer sub- 
stances in the middle of its base, that part of the mallet is usually 
flattened or convex. The edge may be fractured, but it is seldom worn 
away. 

Uouses of the Yurok and Karok were sometimes constructed ou level 
earth, but generally they excavated a round cellar 4 or 5 feet deep and 
12 to 15 in diameter (Fig. 1). Over this they built a square cabin of 
split poles or puncheons, planted erect in the ground aud covered with 
a flatfish puncheon roof. They ate and slept in the cellar (it being only 
a pit, not covered, except by the roof), squatting in a circle around the 
fire, aud stored their supplies on the bank above next to the walls of 
the cabin. For a door they took a punclieon about 4 feet wide, set it up 
at one corner of the cabin, aud with infinite scrainugs of flints and elk- 



THE RAY COLLECTION FROM HUPA RESERVATION. 209 

Ijorijs bored a round hole tlirou^^U it, barely large enough to admit the 
passage of an Indian on all fours. The cabin beijig built entire! 3^ of 
wood and not thatched accounts partly for the healthy looking eyes of 
the Klamath tribes. A space in front of the cabin was kept clean-swept, 
and frequently paved with cobbles, with a larger one i)lacetl each side 
of the door holes, and on this pavement the squaws sat weaving baskets. 

The assembly chamber of the Karoks in California is wholly under- 
ground 5ind oblong, the dimensions being 10 feet by <3 feet and about 7 
feet high. The roof is flatfish and level with the earth. It is puncheoued 
up inside and air-tight, except the liatcliway at the side. 

This structure is used as club-room, council-house, dormitory, suda- 
tory and medical examination room. No squaw may enter on penalty 
of death, except to stand her examination for M. D. 

During cold weather perpetual tires burn, and there are enough in each 
village to furnisli sleeping room for all adult males thereof. The wood 
is gathered by the men. (See Powers' Cout. IST. A. Ethnol., Ill, p. 25, 
for curious manner of cutting this w^ood. Also his frontispiece for a 
picture of the sweat-house). 

Another style of lodge very seldom seen was as follows: A circular 
cellar 3 or 4 feet deep and 12 feet wide was dug and the side walled up 
with stone. Around this cellar, at a distance of a few feet from the edge 
of it, was erected a stone wall. On this wall they leaned up poles, pun- 
cheons, and broad sheets of red wood bark, covering the cellar with a 
conical-shaped inclosure. 

Sometimes the stone wall, instead of being on the inside of the wig- 
wam, supporting the poles, was on the outside, around the end of the 
[loles, and served to steady them. 

Shiftless Indians neglected to wall up the cellars either with stone or 
wood, leaving only a bank of earth. In the center of the cellars w^as a 
live sided tirepit, walled with stone, as in the common square cabin. 
This cellar was both dining-room and dormitoryj a man lying with his 
head to the w^all iiad his feet in comfortable position for toasting before 
the lire. Under his head or neck was a wooden pillow a little rounded 
out on top. (Fig. 5, Powers', p. 74.) 

The most humble dwelling of all is called the '' wickiup," which is little 
more than a booth, with wind-break on the north side, awning overhead, 
and the minimum of comfort and safety everywhere. 

The Hupa houses are said to have been half cellars, half shanties, the 
eaves of the roof only a foot or two from the surface, in which they slept 
on the ground, formerly on skins, latterly on blankets, their pillow-blocks 
of wood 12 inches long at the top, 3 inches wide, and four inches high, 
resembling the neck part of an ox-yoke inverted (Fig. 5). The North 
American Indians did not generally use such head-rests, which are 
very cojnmon in China aiidJapan and among the two Oceanic races — the 
Malayo Polynesians and the I'apuans. Lieutenant Eay says that many 
of the old people still use these pillows, Stephen Powers also mentiou§ 
H. Mis, 170 14 



210 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

them, aud sent an example to the National Museum in 187G. (Cout. to 
K Am. Ethuol., Ill, 74). 

Another article of furniture in this meagerly-furnished household is the 
low stool of wood in form of a truncated cone, 11 inches wide and 3 
inciies high (Fig'. 0). There are no tables, neither cari)ets nor hangings, 
except as the well-tanned buck-skins and pelts on floor and wall ijerform 
the functions of tapestry and curtains. 

DRESS AND ADORNMENT. 

The native dressfor ever^^-day wear among the northern California!! In- 
dians was formerly very meager and little varied (l*o\vers, Cont. N. A. 
Ethnol., Ill, Figs. 3, 3, 5, 6, 8, 23, 28, 30, 31). For the body, the lobe of 
tanned deer-skin or of pelts sewed together (Fig. 7) sufficed for both 
sexes. Among Lieuten ant Kay's collection is a man's cloak of deer-skin, 
made of two hides of young deer sewed together, or rather each side 
consists of three-fourths of a skin so united that the two tails hang down 
below and the two necks extend around the shoulders of the wearer, 
fastening in front. 

The ordinary head covering for the men was formerly a hood of skin 
or leather ornamented, but the women wore the daintiest cap in the 
world, a hemispherical bowl of basketry made of a tough fiber twined 
with the greatest nicety aud embroidered in black, brown, and yellow. 
(Plates I, II, III, Figs. 8-25.) The body weaving is done with the brown 
fiber, showing on the inside and occasionally on the outside in narrow 
bands, figures, and diaper work. Most of the outer side is ornamented 
by overlaying each strand of the brown with a strip of tough grass in 
natural color or dyed, or with a strip of the black stalk of the maiden- 
hair fern. In twining her weft, the savage weaver managed to keep 
these colored grass strips outward, although she would for variety occa- 
sionally hide the grass and reveal the body brown. The patterns are 
produced by a never-recurring variety of fillets, bauds, triangles, and 
parallelograms which please the eye by their form and color, but which 
are the easiest of all to produce, requiring only careful attention to 
counting stitches. 

The shoes of the Hupas and of the other Indians of this region are 
made high like gaiters and are cut from a single piece of buckskin 
(Plate IV, Figs. 2G-31) sewed up at the back rather carelessly by a buck- 
r.kin cord as in basting. Down the instep a curious seam is formed as 
follows (Fig, 20) : The two edges of the leather are slightly split, they 
are then brought together as in joining the edges of a carpet. A loose 
cord of sinew is laid along the two edges and a whipped stitching of 
sinew made to join the two inner margins of the edges of the buckskin, 
inclosing at the same time tlie loose cord of sinew. 

When the shoe is rounded out, tlie two outer margins of the leather 
come together on the outside of the shoe and conceal the sewing alto- 
gether. A coarse sandal of the thick portion of the elk-hide or of twined 



THE RAY COLLECTION FROM IIUPA RESERVATION. 211 

matting: is woru by some tribes {Fig. 30), and also a nicely woven leg- 
ging of soft basketry (Fig. 31). The latter, however, belong to fall or 
ceremonial dress. 

The ceremonial costnme of all the Indians in the region nnder consid- 
eration is most elaborate, free nse being made of i)elts, bnckskins, and 
paint, and of feathers especially. A few ijieces of costume gathered 
by Lieutenant Eay will be described in detail. 

Hats of elk-skin, tanned and painted, are made in the following man- 
ner (Fig. 32) : A strip of elk-skin about 7 inches wide is cut in shape of 
a right trapezoid, measuring 19 inches along the upper edge and 22 
inches along the lower. The two ends are sewed together with two- 
ply sinew thread by a row of blind stitches, visible on the inside and 
not on the outside of the hat. The body of the hat is painted red. 
Four panels or cartouches are bounded by blue lines, from which ex- 
tend inwardly points and wavy lines. The interior of the spaces is 
in white pipe-clay. A tall goose-feather plume arises in front^ and a 
pendant owl feather hangs behind. The strings are of calico rag. 
iSnch hats are worn by young men at a dance which is given when 
they attain the age of 20 years, at which the}' are admitted to the coun- 
cils of the bauds. 

Head bands of soft deer skin are worn, Idt^- by 5 inches, ingeniously 
ornamented with rows of difiereut material recalling certain types of 
Eskimo embroidery. (Fig. 33.) Along the bottom will be a stripe 1 
inch wide formed of deer-skin with the hair on, pointed upwards, and 
shorn straight above. Over this may be a broad stripe 3^ inches wide 
formed by many breasts of blue jays. This, too, is succeeded by another 
band, perhaps of deer-skin. Further up a stripe formed of black and 
white triangle alternating, the former of feathers, the latter of deer 
hair. Above all a row of nearly- a hundred pompons of wood-pecker's 
crest. The back is stiffened with several vertical splints set in like 
modern whalebone. Along the sides two buckskin liaps lap over at the 
back of the head. Lieutenant Ray says that such articles are used as 
money. They are worn by men at festal dances, and used as a medium 
of exchange. In trafitic the value is about $30, and Stephen Powers 
speaks of an inferior one for which the owner refused 8G0. 

Hair ornaments for the dauce are made of strips of haUotis shall 
(varying from 4^ to 1 inch in length and oblong, though irregular in 
outline) and pierced at one end. Through this hole a loop of leather 
string is passed and wrapped in three places with a strip of yellow 
grass for ornament. Two bunches of these pendants, nine in each 
bunch, are connected by a string just long enough to reach over the 
head and permit the pendants to hang gracefully on either side. When 
shaken these bunches produce a pleasing sound. 

Every attractive object is laid under contribution in the Hupa head- 
dress, otter-skin, wings, crests, necks, tail feathers of flickers, wood- 
peckers, ducks, blue jays, fox-skin, pretty shells, dyed grass, quail- 
skins, etc. (Plates v, vi, Figs. 34-41.) 



212 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

The neck ornameuts of tbe wouien in this regiou are very pretty and 
of great variety, being wrought chiefly from nuts, shells, beads, grass, 
feathers, and leather. Necklaces are frequently made of the seed of the 
jjiFion tree by grinding off both ends, removing the fleshy poition and 
stringing. When the ends are ground oif diagonally and the seeds 
strung, alternately leaning to right and left, they form a pretty zigzag 
effect on their strings. Smaller pine seeds are formed into necklaces 
variegated here and there with white beads or shells. A valuable speci- 
men in this line is a necklace of nine hundred shells of Olivella bipUcaia 
strung by grinding off' the apexes. 

A very pretty kind of woman's necklace is made of bunches of grass 
cord and several cords in each bunch. Each cord consists of a bunch 
of grass leaves, sewed with a delicate cord of grass thread and at in- 
tervals with bands of yellow, red, and black yarn, the cord when 
served being less than oae-eighth inch thick. Hanging on the neck, 
this crescent- shaped object forms a very attractive ornament. The shell 
necklaces are of three varieties, dentalium and olivella strung length- 
wise, disks of olivella strung as wampum, and cylindrical necklaces of 
clam-shell disks. 

Dance dresses of deer skin are worn by women on occasions of cere- 
mony. There are three of these of extraordinary elaborateness in 
Lieutenant Eay's collection, in general outline alike, and differing only 
in details. (Fig. 42.) They are made of soft deer-skin, a little over 3 
feet long, 2 feet 9 inches wide at bottom, and widening upward. At 
the top two strips are left about a foot long, to come over the shoulders 
as lapels. The lower 9 inches of the bottom are slit into strings oue- 
eiglith inch wide. To increase the fringe a series of holes is made 
across the bottom, 2 inches above the top of the fringe, ^ inch apart. 
Into the first pair of holes two long strings of buckskin are looped mak- 
ing four strands of fringe. The inner one of these holes and tlie next 
hole receive two more strings, and so on. Excepting the two end ones, 
each hole has four strands passing through it. Hereby we have a very 
heavy fringe of buckskin, sometimes hanging down 18 inches. The 
body of the cloak or cape is plain. The upper part, forming a turn- 
down collar and lapel, is very gracefully decorated, thus : 

About 6 inches are slit into much narrower strands than those at the 
bottom. Each strand is wrapped with the grasses used in basketry 
and with maiden-hair f^rn to produce jiatterns. All of these strands 
are gathered at the top of these wrappings by a row of twined weaving 
with the cord used in making nets. Then half an inch of naked leather 
strings is left, succeeded by a row of twined weaving, half an inch of 
wrapped strands, half an inch of naked strands, 1 inch of wra[)ping^ 
2 inches of naked strands, half an inch of wrapping, a narrow strip of 
naked strands, 1 of wrapping, 1 of naked strands, half an inch of 
wrapping, and finally the ends of the strands as fringe. In one case a 
brass sewing thimblo is attached to each straut\ to mak^ iijiugUag 



THE RAY COLLECTION FROM IIUPA liESERVATIOX. 213 

sound. The alternation of bands of straw and leather of difi'ereut 
widths, the triangular gradines wrought by serving adjacent strands 
with a different number of wraps, and the graceful appearance of the 
fuinge make of these dance cloaks very attractive objects. No two of 
these are alike in the s'equence of colors, the width of stripe, or depth 
of fringe. 

The cinctures worn by women, and many other specimens in the mu- 
seum from this region, are constructed on the same plan, so that the de- 
scription of one of the most complicated will include all the rest (Fig. 43). 
A whole buckskin is folded in the middle. At the creased portion 
about 3 inches are left whole. The tailor slits the rest of the skin into 
" shoe-strings." Then she folded the skin three ply, as you would a 
sheet of letter paper for a long envelope, and sewed the undercut strip 
together so as to keep the skin from unfolding. Commencing at one side 
she gathered twelve strings into a cable, taking four strands from each 
fold of the skin, and wrapped these for about 3 inches into a cylinder 
with broad strips of yellow grass. Continuing all the way across she made 
series of these cables, inclosing in each twelve strands. With buck- 
skin string by twined weaving she united all these cylinders together at 
their lower ends, wrapping each strand with yellow grass. She intro- 
duced here and there the beads and piilon seeds so as to form bands 
across the cincture. About 5 inches of the bottom of each strand were 
served with a kind of braiding now to be described. A very long, tough 
strip of straw folded by its middle around one of the buckskin strands, 
crossing at the opposite side, the ends are alternately turned back and 
tucked through the last fold, giving the appearance of a rough four-ply 
braid. This ingenious trick of imitating braid in the administration of 
one or two strands has been elsewhere noticed on the borders of basket- 
work bowls. (Smithsonian Report, 1884. Tt. II, pi. xxxi.) 

A girdle or sash made of grass and buckskin is also worn by women. 
The mode of manufacture is so entirely aboriginal as to demand a mi- 
nute description. (Fig. 44.) Take a strip of buckskin about 3 feet long 
and 3 inches wide and cut all but a short piece at one end into strings, 
which should be rolled. Provide a quantity of fine, shredded sinew 
and strands of yellow grass. Stretch the eight leather strands so as to 
be about one-eighth of an inch apart. Begin at the end where the strings 
are not cut apart, lay a thread of sinew across the leather strings at 
right angles and pass a strand of grass between each j^air of strings, 
around the sinews, and back. Now bring the sinew around the outside 
string and across as before and double all the straws over it, and back 
between the strings. The straws are carried back and forward between 
the strings in a zig-zag manner around the sinew laid across each line. 
In this weaving with three elements Brussels carpet is somewhat antic- 
ipated. There is also a curious dance wand made of basket-work, which 
is carried in the hand during the dance. (Fig. 45.) This is a mat 
of twined grass cloth about 18 indies square woven in bands and 



214 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

triaiifiular patterns, black aud red. A rod is sewed into each of two 
opposite ends of this cloth and these rods brought togetlier so that the 
rods lie parallel, their ends projecting like the boom of a vessel. The 
ends of the wallet thus formed are closed by bits of cloth and the ends 
of the rods covered with red cloth, one end helving a plume of bird 
feathers. Among the Wilkes collections from this region is a carved 
bone nose-plug, with feather ornaments at the ends. (Fig. 49.) This 
form of adornment is not common at present, as no specimens occur in 
the collections of later explorers. 

The necessary accompaniment of the dance costume is the toilet of 
the hair and face. Tattooing is done with the soot of the pine tree, 
macerated in deer's marrow. The juice of herbs is also employed. 
Then, again, there are vermin tools, consisting of a iiaddle-shaped 
scraper and a crusher. (Fi'gs. 46, 47.) One of the former in this collec- 
tion (77197) is of cedar, 13 inches long, made very smooth, and polished 
at the end by long use. The other is of the white portion of elk horn, 
resembling ivory, diamond shaped, with one end rounded, 7i inches 
long, aud nowhere over one quarter of an inch thick. It has the ap- 
pearance of old Eskimo ivory implements, amber-colored by long use. 
The rounded side is covered with the triangular markings so much 
affected by this people and apparently transferred from basketry. 
The crusher is a cylindrical section of an elk's femur, G| inches long. 
The modus operandi is to stir up the vermin with the j)addle and to 
crush them and their eggs by placing the crusher under the hair and 
pressing it with the paddles. 

The hair-brushes of the Hupa are made of rigid vegetable threads 
and root fibers about G inches long (Fig. 48), by doubling the strands 
and inclosing them like the hairs of a white-wash brush in a handle or 
grip of elk skin sewed fast. The ubiquitous paint mill is made of granite 
or schistose rock, napiform, about 4 inches in the long diameter, with a 
globose depression from 2 to 3 inches wide at top. The cup is coated 
with ocher and becomes extremely smooth from constant mulling. 

PREPARATION AND SERVING OF FOOD. 

As late as 1850 all the bands of Indians now on the Hupa Valley 
Reservation were living in pristine simplicity of social structure, arts, 
and ceremonies, which even now survives to a large extent among the 
old and conservative. Dr. Moffatt, the surgeon of the reservation in 
1805, says: "Their food varied with the season of the year ; each suc- 
cessive Tuouth furnished its own peculiar staple articles." 

Autumn supplied the all-important acorn, large quantities of which 
were collected and kept in store for use during the winter and ensuing 
spring. Winter was the great hunting time. Then they chased the 
numrritch (deer), and small game over the hills, bow in hand, or laid 
in wait for them in the thickets. Grouse, quails, and small birds were 



THE RAY COLLECTION FROM HUP A RESERVATION. 215 

bmitod aud shot with arrows or caught in rude snares set for them. 
The fruit of the chase, with the acorns, thus constituted the winter sup- 
ply of food almost exclusively. 

Spring brought new viands. Early vegetation furnished abundance 
in the form of young leaves and stems of succulent plants, with their 
roots attached, and various species of clover, which were gathered in 
large quantities and eaten. This was the season when the scpiaws 
might be seen setting out in procession, each with a basket swung upon 
her back, furnished' with a piece of wood about 3 feet in length and 
sharpened to a point at both extremities to dig up roots, worms, etc. 
This was the season also when lishing commenced, sometimes earlier, 
sometimes later, according to the subsidence of the high water and 
other circumstances. 

The summer mouths prolonged the same supply, with the addition of 
Indian potatoes, or soap-root, as it is called by the whites, a large and 
nutritious bulb which grows abundantly upon the hills, and various 
kinds of wild fruits and nuts, together with the rich, fat salmon. This 
was the feasting time par excellence of the California Indian. (Ind. 
Aft'. Eept., 18G5, IIG.) 

Both the land and the water yield an abundant supply of food to the 
natives in this region. 

The vegetable food is gathered chiefly by the women^ while it falls to 
the lot of the men to ransack the forests and the waters for game and 
fish. The outfit of the primitive gleaner, miller, and cook is worthy of 
special description, inasmuch as we are able to follow her steps from 
the beginning to the end of her laborious journey. While no edible 
root or fruit was despised, the oaks furnished the chief breadstuff. 
The acorns were gathered in an osier hamper, about IG inches high and 
20 inches in diameter (Plate vii, Fig, 50), built up by fastening the 
osier warp by means of a twined cord of the same material, the meshes 
about ^ths by ^th inch, quite uniform in size. Around the top ran six 
or seven rows of close-t^viued weaving with brown rush and grass, in 
which the brown and the grass color alternately covered one another. 
That is, by using two colors the weaver could bring either one into view 
ad libitum. This form of basketry is used by the women in carrying 
loads, supported by a band across the forehead. Filled with acorns 
this hami^er was placed on the back and held in position by means of 
the carrying pad (Plate viii. Fig. 51), consisting of a disk of mat 5 by 
4 inches, made by coiling loose, native-made rope, and sewing the coil 
with thread of grass. To each end of this pad is fastened, by a two- 
pronged attachment, the baud of rope which passes around the back of 
the head to hold the pad in place. This consists of rope served with 
fine native twine. A collection of this type of pads from different tribes 
of men, as worn by the human beast of burden, would be an instructive 
chapter in the progress of our race, marked by the passage of the pad 
from the forehead to the crown, and of the carrier from a half-prone 



216 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

savage harvester to an arrow-straight Italian ^yater-carrier, About the 
middle of October the Indians of uorthern California beat the acorns 
from the trees with long poles, and carry them home in deep conical 
baskets. The squaws remove the hulls by holding an acorn on a stone 
and giving it a slight tap with a stone pestle. The nuts are then dried 
and beaten to powder in a hollow of a rock. The flour is soaked a few 
hours in a large hollow scooped in the sand. The water draining off 
carries away the bitterness. It is then cooked into a kind of mush in 
baskets by means of hot stones, or baked into bread in an underground 
oven. (Cont. jST. A. Ethuol. Til, 421.) If the harvest is of seeds rather 
than of acorns, they must be winnowed. This is done in a shallow bowl 
tray of the closest twined basketry, which the good woman has not failed 
to decorate with geometric patterns, following that incomparable artistic 
instinct which is the heritage of all the people who breathe the air from 
the Pacific Ocean. Further inland among the Ute tribes a hot stone is 
trundled around in this tray to partially roast the seed 'as well as to 
consume the chaff. 

If the harv^est of seeds or acorns is not immediately needed, it is 
stored in close granaries or in open-work baskets. (Plate vii, Figs. 53 
and 54. 

The miller's apparatus is the most intricate in the evolutionary series 
short of the quern, and consists of five parts, the mat or tray at the 
bottom (Plate VII, 52a), the mortar-stone (52&), the hopper (52c) the 
pestle (Fig. 56 and 52rZ), and the grass-root broom for sweeping up the 
grist (52(7). This affair is quite widespread, including the territory 
of two classes of basket- weavers, those that twine and those that coil 
their work. (See paper on basketry, Sm. Eep. 1884, II.) 

The basket-tray plays the part of the cloth under the hand- mill to 
receive the grist when the hopper and stone are not glued together. 

The bowl-shaped basket hoppers vary slightly in size and much in 
adornment. But Ray's specimen is 10 inches wide at the top and has an 
opening 3^- inches in the bottom. (Plate vri. Fig. 55, also Fig. 52c.) The 
weaving of this specimen is very intricate. Tiie wirp is of osier radiated. 
Commencing at the lower edge the weft proceeds as follows: Two rows 
of j)lain twined osier; four rows of three-ply twine, commencing with two 
strands of osier and one of brown bast, and ending with three of brown. 
The greater part of the body is made of brown and black bast twined in 
two-ply, but the white color is produced by overlaying either of these 
two colors with a strip of grass leaf which the weaver knows how to re- 
veal or conceal on the outer portion. The geometric figures are in black, 
brown, and grass color. The margin is very curiously wrought, as fol- 
lows: The ends of the warp osiers are bent downward and plaited into 
an eight-ply braid and the ends cut off on the inside. As the braid 
passes each warp osier it is plaited in and one cut off. This braid forms 
a margin at an angle of 45 degrees. Under the cut ends, a hoop of wil- 
low is bound. This hopper is used as follows : A large shallow basket is 



THE RAY COLLECTION FROM HUPA RESERVATION. 217 

placed on the i^round, uikI a liat stone placed oa the basket. The hop- 
per rests OQ the stone to hold acorns, manzanita, berries, etc., in place. 
The margin is held in the left hand while with the right the pestle is 
brought to bear upon the acorns or grain. In more southern portions 
of California the ba-ikot is glued to the stone with j^itch. A full outfit 
consists of one hop[)!n', one stone pestle, one large, shallow basket, and a 
smooth tiat stone froui 12 to IS inches in diameter. A larger hojjper, 
more jilainly ornamented, measures 18 inches in diameter at top, with 
an o[)eiiing at the bottom of (> inches diameter. In the two-ply and 
three-ply twine, in the deft handling of grass lining, the strengthening- 
rods and plaited margin, this specimen resembles the last, excepting 
the black color. Here we have only the osier, brown and grass color. 
Mr. Livingston Stone collected two very similar specimens from the Mc- 
Oloud River Indians living in the vicinity of the Hupas, and Mr. Powers 
others from the Tule Riv^er country. These la,st are similar in form, but 
the stitch of the basket is entirely different, being the very beautiful 
coiled stitch of the Yuroks and other tribes of central and southern Cali- 
fornia. (Smithsonian An. Rep. 1884, Pt. II, pi. xix.) 

A basket forming part of the outfit of the acorn grinder is 21 inches 
in diameter and inches deep. It is closely woven by twining in brown 
and grass color, forming a trefoil pattern. 

The rudest pestles are formed by knocking off the edges of a piece 
of hard rock with a flint hammer-stone. These may be ground down 
to symmetrical form upon a flat sandstone kept constantly wet. (Fig. 
bG.) 

Mr. Powers tells us that bread or mush is made from the acorns of 
the chestnut oak {Qiiercus densifJora), which are first slighly scorched and 
then pounded up in stone mortars. (Plate vii, 52.) The meal thus 
prepared is wet with v/ater and the mixture poured into little sand 
pools scooped in the river beach, around which a fire is made until the 
stuff is cooked, when the outside sand is brushed ofi' and the bread is 
leady to be eaten. (Powers Cont. Ill, 50.) 

The Hu[)a cook their mush in a basket pot not unlike a " dinner-pot " 
in shape. (Fig. 57.) Smooth, clean bowlders are heated and dropped 
into the mush, which is stirred with a strong mush-stick or paddle. 
(Fig. 58.) 

Frying pans of la2)is ollaris are also used in cooking cakes. These 
are carelessly rectangular in shape, say about 10 inches long, half as 
wide, and an inch thick. In addition to these are many small baking 
dishes of lapis ollaris, like the so-called individual pans in which civil- 
ized cakes are baked. This form should be especially noticed. The 
Hupa Indians use them for cooking a kind of bread made of acorn-meal. 
(Wheeler VII, 102.) Among the so-called paint dishes in archiieological 
collections are mauj' of soapstone and other soft material not at all 
suited to rubbing up paint. Wcf have here a much more rational ex- 
planation of the proper function. 



218 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

For eating their mush the Hupas employ a rather pretentious spoon 
of horn (Fig. 51)), bowl-shaped like that of a large kitchen spoon. The 
handle is short and zigzag with a si)Oon-shaped grip at the upi)er end. 
The typical characteristics are the zigzag or notched handle, the pro- 
jections like quiUons near the bowl, and the spoon-shaped grip. Quite 
a number of spoons ffom the Klamath area present these marks. For 
savage spoons these arc small specimens, but they are much larger than 
ours. It must be remembered, however, that the Indian dips his food 
from a common pot, and tliat his spoon is rather more of a ladle and 
soup plate than a mere conveyer from a dish to his mouth. The eater 
holds his spoon near his mouth in his left hand and alternately con- 
veys a morsel therefrom to his mouth, sipping the liquid i)ortion from 
the rim as from a porridge bowl. 

On the testimou}^ of both Mr. Powers and Mr. Purcell, a species of 
food not enticing to civilized stomachs is relished by the California sav- 
ages. When the rain falls in autumn enough to give the earth a thor- 
ough soaking and the angle- worms begin to come to the surface, then 
the Yuki housekeeper turns her mind to a good bowl of worm soup. 
Armed with her "woman stick," the badge of her sex, which is a pole 
about G feet long and l.J inches thick, sharpened and fire-hardened at 
one end, she seeks out a piece of rich moist soil and sets to work. 
Thrusting the pole into the ground about a foot she turns it around 
in every direction and so agitates the earth that the worms come to the 
surface in large numbers for a radius of 2 or 3 feet around. She gathers 
and carries them home and cooks them into a rich and oily soup.* 

Mr. Purcell says: "The Indians of Eound Valley go out when the 
ground is wet to catch angleworms. They take a pole, sharp at one end, 
and punch it as deep as possible in the earth. They then work it back 
and forward and in a short time the lish worms, made uncomfortable by 
the extra pressure, will begin to crawl out. These worms are eaten raw 
or made into soup." 

While treating of the food customs it may be well to speak of the 
closely woven food or table mats, the pretty salmon dishes of twined 
openwork basketry in osier. (Fig. 60.) For the warp six osier rods are 
overlaid by six others at right angles, and held in place by an osier 
wrapped around the outside of the crossing. The warp rods are then 
separated radially and held by three coils of close twined weaving. 
The coil is then continued in open work, each turn removed farther 
as it passes outward. New warp rods are added at each turn to keep 
the meshes at a uniform width. There is no fastening off at the mar- 
gin, the twine clasping the ends of the soft osier sufBciently to hold. 
These tray-like baskets are about 1 foot or more in diameter and 3 
inches deep. They are used to serve up salmon. 

Salmon baskets of open willow work, 10 and 11 inches wide, 3i deep, 
are formed by a series of warp-sticks one-sixteenth of an inch thick and 

* Frequently tlio worms arc brought to tlio surface by the ludiaus dancing over 
the ground to make the game uncomfortable below. 



THE RAY COLLECTION FROM HUPA RESERVATION. . 219 

the samc! distance a])iirt, held lirinly in plac(; by a ooiitinuous coil of 
twined osier about three-fourths of an inch between the turns. Four 
radial bars of black break the monotony of the fabric and produce a 
pretty effect. 

PIPES AND SMOKING. 

The Indians of northern California smoked formerly a wild tobacco, 
Nicotiana qitadrivalris {Gray), N. pJmnh agin if olkc (Bolander). It was 
smoked alone or mixed with dry manzanita leaves {ArctosiapliyloH 
(jlauca). ]\Ir. Powers says that it has a pungent, peppery taste in the 
pipe, which is not disagreeable. 

The pipes are conoidal in shape, and are either of wood alone, stone 
alone, or latterly' of stone and woo<l combined, as will appear further on. 
(Plate viii-ix, Figs. 01-73.) The beginning of such a pipe would be a 
hollow reed, or pithy stem, with tlie tobacco deposited in one end. A 
plain cone of wood lifted for smoking starts the artificial series. (Fig. 
Gl). Rude pipes are cut out of one piece of laurel or manzanita and 
shaped like a fisherman's wood maul or one of the single-handed war- 
clubs of the Pueblo Indians. (Fig. 02.) The length of stem is about 11 
inches; length of bowl, 2^ inches: diameter of bowl, 2 inches ; of stem, 
% of an inch. The bowl is a cup- shaped cavity, very shallow. The 
whole specimen is very rude, looking as though it had been chipped out 
with a hatchet or heavy fish-knife. 

The next grade of pipes are of hard wood resembling the last described 
in type, but very neatly finished. The stem is about 14 inches long 
and j%ths of an inch thick. The head is spherical, 1^ inches in diameter. 
The bowl is cup-shaped and the cavity nearly 1 inch in diameter. (Fig. 
G4.) 

A small pipe of soapstoue is also used, in which the straight pipe is 
presented in its simplest form. (Fig. 05.) Length, 2g inches. 

There are also pipes of fine-grained sandstone of graceful outline, re- 
sembling in shape a ball bat, 7 inches long, 7J inches wide in the thickest 
part. A very noteworthy thing about this pipe is the extreme thinness 
of the walls. (Fig. 03.) At the mouth part, where it is thickest, the 
stone does not exceed one-eighth of an inch, while through the upper 
portion it is less than one-sixteenth of an inch in thickness. The cavity 
does not present the series of rings which appear in stone that has been 
bored out, but innumerable longitudinal scratches fill the inner surface. 

The oidy solution of this appearance is that the interior was excavated 
by the use of a file or other hard tool. By the great size of its interior, 
this i^ipe is connected with the tubular objects from the mounds called 
telescopes by some, sucking tubes by others, and pipes by others. (See 
Dr. Abbott's paper in Wheeler's Survey West»of One Hundredth Merid- 
ian, Vol. YII, pi. Yii and text.) 

The stone pipes were taken from old graves, and this kind are now 
no longer in use. 



220 PAPERS EELATING TO ANTHPtOPOLOGY. 

We have, again, a little pipe no larger than some cigarette holders. 
(Fig. GO.) Except in its diminutive size and simplicity it might have 
served as a model for the three to be next described, or for the type 
specimen mentioned at the head of this list. Length, 2| inches ; greatest 
widtli, three-fourths of an inch; depth of bowl, |ths of an inch. (See 
Powers, Fig. 43.) 

Tbey likewise use a tapering pipe of hard wood, 12^ inches long, 1§ 
inches wide at the larger end. What may be called the stem is 7| 
inches long. The other portion is carved by a series of O'jtagons and 
chamfers which give to the specimen quite an ornamental appearance. 
(Fig. 09.) The bowl is Jths of an inch wide and 2 inches deep. This ex- 
ample has been smoked a great deal, being charred very much in the 
bowl. (Collected by Livingston Stone. Compare Figs. 2 and 5, Plate 
IX, Dr. Abbott's paper in Wheeler's Survej^ West of One Hundredth 
Meridian, Vol. VIL) 

Other beautifully finished pipes of the same type, evidently turned 
in a lathe to please the Hupa fancy, are kept with the greatest care in 
leather pouches made for the purpose. (Figs. 71, 73.) They are made 
of different woods highly polished. The remarkable feature is the bowl 
of serpentine set in a tapering shouldered socket at the wide end of the 
stem, and the whole turned and polished. The bowl is a conical cavity 
in serpentine. 

The next example consists of a pipe and case. The pipe has a stem 
shaped like a club or ball bat, and a bowl of compact steatite. In gen- 
eral features pipes of tlris class resemble the cigarette holder, and they 
are found among the Utes and Mohaves, as well as in the mounds. 

When it is remembered that many Indians recline while smoking, it 
will be seen that this is the only sensible form of the pipe for them. 

Their tobacco pouches of busket-work are ovoid in form and hold 
about 1 quart. (Plate viii, Fig. G7.) They are made of twined weav- 
ing in bands of brown and checkered grass, so common in the basketry 
of the Klaniaths as to be typical. Six buckskin loops are attaclied to 
the rim of this basket in such a manner that their apexes meet in the 
center of the opening. A long string is fastened to the apex of one 
loop and passed through all the others serially to close the mouth of the 
pouch. Height, G inches; width of mouth, 2i inches. 

BASKET-MAKING. 

The basket-making of these Indians belongs exclusively to the twined 
pattern of weaving, as that of the more southern California tribes 
belongs to the coiled type. (Fig. 74.) (Smithson. An. Eep. Pt. II. p. 
299, and pi. xviii, xix.) 

From willow twigs and pine roots, says Mr. Powers, they weave large 
roundmats for holding acorn flour; varioussized, flattisli, squash shaped 
baskets, water tight; deep conical ones of about a bushel capacity, to 
be carried on the back, and others to be used at pleasure as drinking- 



THE RAY COLLECTION FROM HUPA RESERVATION. 221 

cups or skullcaps (Plate , Fig. — ), for only the squaws ordinarily 

wear auytliiug on tbeir heads, in which latter capacity they fit very 
neatly. (Powers, Cont., Ill, 47.) 

In carrying her baby or a quantity of acorns, the squaw tills her deep 
conical basket and suspends it on her back by a strap which passes 
loosely around it and atliwart her forehead. (Powers Gout., Ill, 47.) 

The Round Valley Indians make their baby cradles of splints run- 
ning up and down. x\ hood-shaped awning covers the face and also 
keeps the baby from rolling out. Formerly new-born children declared 
defective by the medicine man were put to death. On the birth of a 
male child the father goes on a hunt and does not return until he has 
secured much game. This is to make a mighty hunter of the baby boy. 
The basketry at Kound Valley Reservation is made of the root of a 
shrub which grows in swampy land. Mr. X. J. Pnrcell says that they 
gather great bunches of this root, which they keep soaked in water until 
it is needed for use. The roots are deftly split, and the inside scraped 
with a sharp st«.nu^. or, recently, with a knife. The ribs are formed of a 
tough twig, and the coiled sewing is done by means of a needle made 
of antler or bone. This form of coiled weaving is unknown at Hupa 
Reservation, the twined pattern being used exclusively. It should be 
noted that the aSTorthern Tinne or Athapascan employs the coiled method 
altogether. 

Mr. Purcell narrates a tradition of the Ukie Indians of Round Val- 
ley Reservation which is connected with their basketry. 

Once upon a time everything was a vast botly of water, over which 
all was darkness. Hovering over this expanse in the darkness was a 
large white feather, the embodiment of one of their spiritual beings, 
that iinally becomes weary and lights down into the water. Here was 
a whirlpool in which the feather is carried around so rapidly that a 
great foam is formed, which grows larger and larger until a floating 
mass is aggregated ; of this the feather spirit forms the laud. 

Still all was dark, and the feather goes around among all the worlds 
to look for light. On visiting one of these he was taken sick and was car- 
ried by the hospitable inhabitants to the sweat-house. Here his eyes 
became dazzled by tlie brilliant light, and on looking up he beheld 
several beautiful suns hanging from the roof. The inhabitants one day 
going off on a great hunt left two old men to wait on the sick visitor. 

These nurses fell asleep and the feather spirit carried off one of the 
suns in a basket. Though hotly pursued he arrived safely home with 
his ])rize. He carried it far to the east and set it low on the ground, 
but this position did not suit him. So he moved it again and again, 
and continued to move it about until our day. 

The pretty jar-shaped baskets in our collections, covered all over with 
feathers, are made by coiling and catching in the shaft of a bright-colored 
feather under each stitch. It was in one of these baskets the sun was 
carried off by the feather spirit, 



222 



PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 



TOOLS OF GENERAL USE. 

The comiuou tools of tlie aborigines were such as were naturally 
attached to their life and habits, plus the natural retiuemeat of the 
people. 

The leaf-shaped blades of the jasper knives found in graves closely 
resembles those now in use (Plate x, Figs. 75-78), but the handle of 
pine is very much decayed, being partially protected by a covering of 
pitch. The blade is fastened in place with pitch, and the color is 
brown, striped with green. 

These specimens, with those before described, afford a probable ex. 
planation of the method of hafting the whole class of implements com- 
monly called leaf-shaped spear-heads. 

There are eight specimens of this kind in the collection, the material 
varying from a dark-brown to a dull bluish chalcedony color, some 
brown striated with light blue. All of them are set in handles by 
means of pitch. The following tabular statement will characterize them : 



No. 



1.... 
2 ... 

3 

4 

5 

6 

7 



Blade. 



Inches. 
Brown, veiuod with blue 4 



Length, 
blade 



Browu 

Browu, veined witli blue 

do 

Grecu and lnown mixed 

Brown . . 

Brown, striped with bluh 

Blue-sray 



Width. 



Inches. 

2i 



Thick- 
ness. 



Inches. 



Length 



Inches. 

H 

4J 
4A 



Handle. 



Description. 



Pine, of one piece, blade glued. 

Do. 

Do. 

Do. 

Do. 
Pine, of one piece, blade lashed. 
Pino, of two pieces, lashed at both 

ends. 
Pine, of two pieces, lashed at one 
end. 



Compare these hafted knives with Wheeler (Vol. VII, Plate vii). 

There is in the Ray collection an obsidian knife, wrapped around 
one end with a strip of otter skin (Plate x. Fig. 78). The blade is of 
mottled obsidian, black and brown, 7;^ inches long, 1| inches wide, 
and 1 1. inches thick. The Indian who gave this knife to Lieutenant 
Eay informed him that this particular kiud of stone is held in great 
veneration, and is brought from a great distance. 

The mottled obsidian is not found in the Tlupa Valley. The use of 
this form as a talisman is paralleled by the veneration in which stone 
implements are held all over the world when their active normal use is 
lost. 

Among the articles paraded or worn in the ceremonial dance is a 
flake or knife of obsidian or jasper, some of which are 15 inches or 
more in length, and about 2i inches wide in the widest iiart. These 
are wrapped with skin or cloth to prevent the rough edges from lacer- 
ating the hand. But the smaller ones are mounted on wooden handles 
and glued fast. The large ones can not be purchased at any price, but 
Mr. Powers procured some about G inches long at |2,50 apiece. These 



THE RAY COLLECTION FROM IIUPA RESERVATION. 223 

are not proi)erl3' knives, but jewelry for sacred purposes, passing cur- 
rent also as money. 

The lire-drill is of the simplest type, consisting of two pieces of soft 
cedar or redwood. The opinion is commonly held that the fire-drill 
must consist of a soft bed and a hard drill-piece. In this example both 
are of soft wood. Among the Pueblo Indians sand is placed in the 
cavity of the lower stick to increase by i'riction both the heat and the 
pulverization of the wood. 

Elk-horn wedges, sharpened by rubbing on stones, are indispensa- 
ble to the woodmen (Plate x. Pig. 79). Selecting a fallen redwood, 
straight and free from knots, they hack a notch a few inches deep 
reaching a third or more of the way around the tree. 

By means of the wedges and stone hammer (Fig. 2-4) they split oft a 
kind of jacket slab long enough for tlie height of the wigwam, 2 or 3 
inches thick and 4 or 5ieet wide. This puncheon observes the curva- 
ture of the tree, but on being e.\posed to the sun for a few days it 
warps out ilat. They then dress it smooth with elk-horn or flint axes. 
(Powers, 101.) 

SPECIAL INDUSTRIES. 

The special industries of the California Indian men were connected 
with hunting and fishing. 

The Wahikki method of capturing deer is to run them down afoot. 
These animals have very much the habit of running in certain trails 
and tlie Indians make these trails a study ; they post relays of men at 
points where the aniiiial is apt to pass, and so give hiin continual chase 
until he is out of his range and thus get him so bk>wn that iie either 
stands at bay or takes to the water. 

An old hunter narrates that he has seen them often capture a fine buck 
in this manner. Then again they construct two slight lines of brush- 
wood fence converging to a ]K)int where a snare is set, and chase the 
animal into this snare. 

Besides this, they often ran down hare and rabbits. This is more 
easily done. A company of Indians get together in a space of meadow 
or in an o])en wood and whoop and beat the cover to flush the quarry. 
Territied by the noise the animal runs wild, springs in the air, and leaps 
S(iuare oif Irom a straight run even when nothing moves or makes a. 
noise near it, and so beats itself completely out, or slii)S into a- bnrrow. 
This is sport for the Indians, who whoop, laugh, swing their arms, lling 
clnbs, and make a deal of noise. Mr. Powers says an Indian boy can 
run a rabbit to cover in ten minutes, split a stick fine at one end, thrust 
it down the hole, twist it into his scut and i)ull him out alive. 

The Humboldt Bay Indians catch deer or elk in a trap constructed as 
follows: Two long lines of brushwood fence, or of strii)s of bark tied 
from tree to tree, converge until they compel tlie elk to pass through a 
narrow chute. At this point the Indians place a pole in such manner 
that the animal is obliged to let down his horns to pass underneath and 



224 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

tliiis he inserts his head iuto the noose. This trap is made of grass or 
fibrous roots twisted iu a rope as large as a man's arm and attached to 
a pole iu such fashion that the elk drags it down, whereupon he speed- 
ily becomes entangled in the contiguous bushes and anchored fast. 

The eel-trap of Eel River is made of splints, tunnel-shape, with a fun- 
nel-shaped entrance at the large end through which the creature could 
wriggle, but which closed on him and detained him inside. Traps of 
this kind they weight down so that they float mostly below the surface 
of the water ; they then bind them to stakes planted iu the river bottom. 
Thus they turn about with the swish of the tide, keeping the large end" 
always against the current, that the eels might slip in readily. The 
stakes are driven into hard i)ack shingle by patiently driving and 
working them until they are firmly settled. (Powers, 103.) 

They construct the toggle-heads of their salmon harpoons (Fig. 80) as 
follows : A point of antler, bone, or metal from 2i to 3i inches in length, 
more or less flattened, and sharp at the tipo, is armed nt its lower ex- 
tremity with two barbs laid alongside, lashed down, and covered with 
l)itch. (Fig. — .) In the same lashing is included one end of the leader, 
a short strap of deer raw-hide. Into a slit at the other end is spliced 
the line, a piece of rope from ] to 3 feet long, attached at its opposite end 
to the side of the shaft. Some spears have two or more prongs, each 
armed with one of these toggle-heads. 

When the fish is struck its struggles detach the toggle-head and it is 
retrieved by means of the line and pole. Toggle-heads of similar type 
are in use among all the salmon eating Indians or northwest California. 
The Ilupa annually dam the Klamath at intervals by a structure ar- 
ranged so that no fish can pass through with the flow of water. The 
McCloud Indian trap consists of stakes or bushes built out into the 
river at a fall or rapid in the form of the letter V, having the angle down- 
stream and a basket-trap at the angle. This method proved perfectly 
worthless, as of course it must be, for catching healthy fish, as this con- 
trivance cntrajis only the exhausted ones that are going down the river 
and none that are coming up. They do not use salt in drying their fish, 
the air of California being dry enough to preserve thim without it. 

Most of the salmon used for drying are taken in August and Septem- 
ber when they are spawning or lalling down the river alter spawning. 
They are then easily captured by spearing (Fig. 81.) or by traps. Their 
spears are verv long and carefully made. 

The trajjs are ujeiely baskets of bushes placed at a fall or rapid and 
winged on each side by a fence of stakes or bushes running at a slight 
angle up the river, so that the exhausted fish coming down the river 
finally find their way iuto the basket and are there trapped. 

The McCloud Indians do not try to trap the fish coming up the river, 
but only those going down, which is just the contrary of the principle 
of the white man's trap and nets. The Indians very singularly prefer 
the exhausted aud dying salmon for drying, 



THE RAY COLLECTION FROM HUPA RESERVATION. 225 

As soon as a salmon is speared or taken from the trap it is opened 
(the spawn always being saved as a luxury) aud split and hung on a 
bush or fence made lor the purpose in the open air. In the dry air of 
California the drying process is sufficient to preserve them without salt. 

The Indians never use salt in preserving their salmon aud will not 
eat salt meat of any descri[)ti()n. When the salmon are sufiiciently 
dried they are tied together in buiulles aud i)acked away arouiul the 
sides of the lodges. These, repulsive as they seem, represen-t the nuiiu 
supi)ort of the Indians during the winter and are highly valued b^^ them. 

The(lii)-nets used in taking eels and young salmon are made triangular 
in shape, 10 feet by It feet, ()[)en along the long side of the triangle and 
closed on the other side and base. They are knit of two-ply twine made 
from tough fiber. The meshes are three-fourths of an inch S(|uare, made 
with the regular fisherman's knot or becket hitch. (Fig. 8l*.) 

Their seines are also made of this twine, hard twisted, which is itself 
manufactured from the leaf of a very tough grass or sedge. Each blade 
of grass i^roduces two strands of fiber. It is strii)i)ed when the gi'ass 
is green by scraping with the thumb nail or a mussel shell fastened on 
the thumb, similar to the tool employed in scraping down sinew on the 
bows. 

No spindle is used, the fiber being twisted with the palms of the hands 
on the thigh. The net is knotted like tliosc of civilized [leople ; that is, 
the thread of each mesh is brought down around the mesh-stick, then 
through the bight of the stitch above, and fastened by a half hitch quite 
around both strands of the same iiicsh. 

Specimens of the raw material, fiber, twine, and nets were sent by 
Lieutenant Ray. The uet is in shape of an elongated isosceles triangle, 
with a long side open, 10^ feet long and 4 feet deep at the base. 

The seine needle has a long and slender shaft (Fig. Sli), the two 
ends resembling a duck's head in outline, the thread passing between 
the two phalanges of the beak into a wide elliptical space. Length 10^, 
iuches. 

The Hupa had well-established laws and riparian rights to hunting, 
fishing, nutting grounds, laws of murder, injury, insulting words, etc. 

The sling of the Ilupa is a very intricate, alfair made of buckskin. The 
thongs of sinew or tough cord arc united to the leather by first i)assing 
through it and then coiling on themselves. The ordinary loop on one 
end and knot on the other are also used by thejn. (Fig. 83.) • 

BOWS AND ARROWS. 

' The methods of the northern Californiau bowyer and tletcher are now 
pretty clearly understood. For ordinary flaking of jasper or obsidian 
(Fig. 85) he nses a common pebble hammer-stone, but for detaching- 
flakes of the best quality he uses between his hamiher and his core a 
''pitching tool" or sort of cold-chisel of the hardest antler, (Fig. do.) 
For shaping his iioiuts he has an arrow-sharpener of bone or antler 
H. Mis. 170 15 



226 PAPERS EELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

lashed to a liaiidle of wood, almost identical with the oue employed by 
the Eskimo of Port Barrow, etc. (92 and 9G). 

Note. — A very curious metamorplaobis of the Eskimo type is the following : For- 
merly the Alaskan Eskimo chipped their arrow-head and skin-scrapers with a com- 
pound flint chipper of bone and rubbed the brash edge down to prevent tearing the 
skin. When he substituted the steel for the stone blade, he still employed the arrow- 
chipper to take the wire-edge off the blade. Finally he has invented a somewhat 
similar tool, with a beaver tooth in place of a bone, and this tool is now labelled 
knife-shariieuer in most collections. 

The Hupa tool for chipping arrow-heads is thus used : The work is held 
in the palm of the hand, which is protected by a buckskin pad, and the 
chips are flaked oft" by pressing on the edge of the flint with the tool 
held in the right hand, the ball of the handle resting in the palm. The 
Point Barrow Eskimo also press downward in chipping with a similar 
tool. 

" The Yiard arrow-maker," says Powers, " takes a j>iece of jasper, chert 
obsidian, or common flint, which breaks sharp-cornered and with a 
conchoidal fracture ; this he heats in the fire and then cools slowly, 
which splits it in flakes. Then taking one of these flakes he gives ii 
an ai)j)roximatcly right shape by striking it with a rough hammer, then 
slips over his left hand a piece of buckskin with a hole to lit over the 
thumb (this buckskin is to prevent the hand from being wounded), and 
in his right hand he takes a pair of buck-horn pincers tied together at 
the point with a thong. Holding the piece of flint in his left hand he 
breaks off from the edge of it a tiny fragment with the jiincers, by a 
twisting or wrenching motion. The piece is often reversed in the hand 
so that it may be worked awaysymmetrically. Arrow-head manufact- 
ure is a specialty, just as arrow-making, medicine, and other arts." 
These i)iucers are probably only our compound chipper. With the 
Klamath Eiver Indians a piece of bone is fastened to a wooden shaft 
IJ feet in length, the working point of which is crooked and raised to 
an edge, the force employed being all the time solely pushing. To 
guide the instrument with a steady hand the handle is held between 
the arm and the breast, while the point, with but little play room, as- 
sisted by the thumb, works on the edge of the flake, which again is held 
for greater safety in a piece of deerskin. After the two sides have 
been worked down to a i^oint then another instrument is required, with 
which the barbs and projections are broken out. This is a needle or 
awl of about 3 inches in length, and by a pushing motion the desired 
pieces are broken out, as with the first-mentioned tool. 

These Indians have also what (Plate xxi. Fig. 90) is called an "arrow 
straightener," which they use to straighten arrow-shafts, and likewise 
their arrows that have become warped by use. This tool is employed 
thus: The arrow-shaft (Plate xx, Fig. 84) is passed through a slot, and 
the workman looks along the shaft and nips it with the tool where it is 
crooked. They go over the arrows with the straightener several times 
while working them down with a knife. For lashingthehead and feather 



THE RAY COLLECTION FROM IIUPA EESEUV^ATION. 227 

(Fift-. 88) tlie (iiiest shredded sinew from the k?g of tlie deer is used 
(Fig. 8G). Ghi(i is made from the sturgeon and paint from the ochers 
of the iiills (Fi<4-. 89). For tilling up the interstices of sinew, wood, and 
stone, pitch (Fig, 87) is administered by means of a pitch-stick (Ffg. 91.) 

The war arrows of tlie Hnpas are the perfection of grace. They con- 
sist of the following parts, which will be described in the following- 
order: head, forcshaft, shaft, shaftmciit, Mul «ocA;, each with its seizing 
or lashing. (Figs. 99, 102.) 

The arrow-heads are of jasper, chalcedony, obsidian, and bottle-glass 
from "I of an inch to 2 j inches in length, quite uniformly 5 of an imdi 
in width and y^j of an inch in thickness, forming an isosceles triangle 
with incurved base. Side notches are made for the sinew thread which 
forms the lashing of the head. Bird-arrows, designed to stun rather 
than to wound, lack the stone head. 

The foreshaft (Fi^;-. 102i) is about 3i inches outside measure, painted or 
not, according to fancy, and inserted into a socket in the end of the shaft 
by a point 3 inches long. The shaft is always a sucker of white wood, 
and with the shaftment measures about 2 feet in length. There is little 
similarity between the uniform, straight, and delicate rod and the twig 
or sucker out of which it has been formed. Much time and pains are 
exi^ended in removing the bark by means of wooden wrenches or nippers, 
in steaming and straightening with a wooden wrench (Fig. 90), scraping, 
standstoning with two [)ieces of coarse-grained sandstone having semi- 
cylindrical groves (Fig. 91), and finally in polishing down, not with 
emory puper, but with the leaf of a coarse marsh-grass full of siliceous 
particles. 

The shaftment or feathered part is in the neighborhood of G inches in 
length. Three feathers (Fig. 88) are seized on at the ends by sinew 
(Fig. 8(5), but they arc not always glued down along the shaftment. Al- 
most universally around the shaftment, inside the feather, occur streaks 
of paint in endless variety of color (Fig. 1026'), width of strJi)e, and order 
of succession. In the same quiver will occur variation of width and 
succession, but not in colors. These decorations have been called clan 
and owner nrarlcs. 

Kock is the part of the arrow concerned with the bow-string (Fig. 
102r/). Itself may be Hat, like a iish-tail, cylindrical like the shaltment, 
only wrapped with the feather seizing, bulbous as in the Chinook ar- 
row, or flaring as in the swallow-tailed nock of the Indian tribes of the 
plains and the great interior basin. 

On the Hnpa arrows, the nock is cylindrical, slightly bulbous by 
reason of thick paint on the feather-seizing. The notch in the nock 
may either be angular or rectanguhir. All the sinew lashings in this 
series are painted. 

The fishing arrows of the Hupa (Fig. 100) have a foreshaft of bone 
which have bilateral barbs, one, two, or three pairs, and to the front of 
this foreshaft are lashed the stone heads. 



228 PAPERS KELA.TING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

The Hiipa bows (Fig'. 103) all belong to one type, sinew-lined as dis- 
tinguislied li'oni the sinew backing- of the Eskimo. There are two va- 
rieties, called by the collectors war bows and hnnting bows, the former 
4 feet long-, the latter 3 feet 4 inches, about. They are all made of yew, 
a little over 1 inch wide and ^ inch thick at the handle, expanding to 
1^ inches in width in the limbs, and contracting gracefully to about ^ 
of an inch at the nock, which is about 1 inch long, less than A inch wide, 
and bent at an angle of 45 degrees. 

The back of this bow is covered with a lining of sinew so carefully 
[)ut on as to mimic the bark of wood, its thickness exactly titted to the 
exigencies of the work to be done. The sinew of the larger animals is 
carefully shredded (Fig. 8G) and laid on with glue made from the lower 
jaw of the sturgeon, making a solid mass. The back of the wood bow is 
gashed so as to afford a good sticking surface for the glue and sinew. 

The sinew is doubled over the nocks, whipped down with strips of 
buckskin, and tufted with a stripe of otter fur (Fig. 103^). The grip is 
also seized with a strip of buckskin and bound by two rings of otter 
fur. The bo.w-string is of two-ply sinew twine, -i\- i^^h thick. Lieu- 
tenant Ea}' thus describes bow and arrow making among the Natano 
and Kenuck Indians : 

Manufacture of Boies and Arroics among the N^atano {Hupa) and 
Kenucic (Klamath) Indians. — The bow-makers of both these tribes are 
specialists, and the trade is now confined to a very few old men. 1 
have here seen no man under forty years of age that could make a bow 
or an arrow, and only one old man who could make a stone arrow-head. 

To make a bow, the wood of a yew sapling 2.^ to 3 inches in diameter 
is selected and rough hewn to shape, the heart side inward anil the 
back carefully smoothed to the form of the back of the bow. The sinew 
is laid on while the wood is green, and held in place until dry by means 
of a twine wrapping. In this. condition it is hung in the sweat-house 
until the wood is thoroughly seasoned, when it is iinished and strung, 
and in some cases the back variiished and i)ainted. The most delicate 
part of the operation is to get the proper tension on the sinew backing. 
If too tight the wood crimps or splinters when the bow is strung, and 
a lack of proper tension leaves the bow weak and worthless. When 
the bow is seasoned it has a reverse curve of about 3 inches. 

The sinew for the backing and bow-string is taken from the back and 
the hind leg of the deer at the time of killing, and dried for future use. 
When required it is soaked until pliable, strii)ped into fine shreds and 
laid on by commencing at each end and terminating at the center of the 
bow. The sinew is slightly twisted and dried before it is placed on 
the bow. 

The glue used to fix the backing is obtained by boiling the gland of 
tlie lower Jaw and the nose of the sturgeon. This is dried in balls and 
preserved for use, and is prepared by simply dipping it in warm water 
and rubbing it on the wood. 

The arrow-sliafts are usually made from the wood of the wild currant 
and are worked to shape with a knife and tried by the eye. After 
roughing they are allowed to season and are then finished. Any curves 
are taken out with a straighteiu^r, made of a piece of hard wood, spin- 
dle-shaped and perforated in the middle. The arrow-heads used for 



THE RAY COLLECTION FROM ITITPA RESERVATION. 229 

war and for bi^ game are usually made from (lint and obsidian, and 
more recently of iron and steel. Tiio Hakes for the stone beads are 
knocked off by means of a pitcliin^- tool of deer antler. The stone heads 
are made with a chipper com{)osed of a crooked handle to which is 
lashed a short piece of anther percisely similar to those which I col- 
lected at rt. Barrow. The work is held in the left baud on a pad and 
flaked off by pressure with the tool in the ris;ht hand in exactly the 
same manner as I found the Innuits doinq; in Northern Alaska. 

The bows made by these people are effective for game up to 50 or 75 
yards, and would inllicta serious wound at 100 yards. At 50 yards the 
arrows will penetrate a deer irom live to ten inches. I never heard of 
(nie passing entirely tlirough a deer. The elk-skin armor which I send 
to the Museum, Fig. 105, is proof against any arrow. 

The eye is formed in the middle of the bow-string, by a running knot, 
the bow-string is then twisted, the riglit length measured off, ami the 
noose formed by making a half hitch so as to bring the string in the 
middle of the belly side of the nock. The rest of the string is wrapped 
around the nock and fastened off" by gaining and tucking. 

The ornamentation of these bows is done in red and blue paint, the 
forms being chiefly the triangle omuiprescut in tbe ITupa decorator's 
imagination. 

I shall speak more fully of the development of the sinew back in a 
paper on savage archery now preparing, and will merely draw attention 
here to the perfect success which has been achieved in converting the 
breaking strain upon a brittle wood into the tensile strain ui^on the 
toughest fiber in the world. 

Another point noticed by Mr. John Murdoch is the similarity of these 
bows to those of some Tinneh tribes in the elliptical shape of the limbs. 
The Eskimo have in some localities this form in the sinew-backed bow. 

For a quiver (Fig. 101) the Yurok takes the skin of a raccoon or mar- 
tin, turns it wrong side out, sews it up, and suspends it behind him by 
a string passed over one shoulder and under the other, while the striped 
tail flutters gaily in the air at bis shoulder. 

In the animal's head he stuffs a quantity of moss, as a cushion for 
the arrow-heads to rest in, to prevent breakage. 

The Ilupas employ the skin of the coon, iiiartin, deer, fox, and otter 
for making their quivers. 

The Hupas and Klamath Indians no longer use the stone club of the 
meri or patoo pattern. The specimen described by Lieutenant Hay was 
found in a grave; it is made of chloritic schist, and measures 13 inches 
long. The old men informed Lieutenant Say that they were in common 
use before the advent of the white man. The meri form occurs here and 
there in the new world, but never so graceful in outline, so beautifully 
polished, nor in such hard material as the typical weapon which reached 
its perfection in l^aw Zealand. 

The function of weapons belonging to this class in our day is the kill- 
ing of large fish, like the lialibut of the Pacific coast. The jSTational 
Museum contains several fish-killing clubs, somewhat resembling this 



230 . PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

weapon. It is also proper to aay that forms as rude as ours occur in 
New Zealand. The elk skin armor (Fig. 103) worn by warriors in battle 
as protection from arrows is now nearly obsolete. These suits have 
been worn by several generations, and in some of the modern battles 
with the whites. The cusps and triangular figures are intended to 
denote the number of enemies slain and Captives taken. It is worn 
so as to cover the left side, with the left arm through the slit, the head 
through the opening, and the tie on the right shoulder, and it is also 
tied below the right arm. The arrow cuts and bullet marks were re- 
ceived in battle. 

There is another kind of armor made of wattles and twine, woven and 
bound with buckskin. (Fig. lOG.) This is worn in battle to protect the 
body; it is tied across the breast from left to right. The red lines de- 
note the number of enemies slain or captives taken, also the rank of 
the wearer. 

This class of armor was ill common use among the ISTatanoand Kenuck 
Indians before the introduction of fire-arms, but it is now nearly obso- 
lete. This is the only complete suit which Lieutenant Eay was able to 
obtain. 

BOAT BUILDING. 

As the redwood grows only along the Lower Klamath the Yurok 
have a monopoly of making canoes; and they sell many to the Karok. 
A canoe on the Klamath is not pointed like the Chijipewa canoe, but 
the width at either end is equal to the tree's diameter. (Figs. 107, 108.) 
On the great bar across the mouth of the river, and all along the coast 
for 80 miles, there are tens of thousands of mighty redwoods cast up 
on the strand, having been either floated down by the rivers or grubbed 
down by the surf; hence the Indians are not obliged to fell any trees, 
and have onl}^ to burn them into suitable lengths. In making the canoe 
they spread pitch on whatever place they wish to reduce, and when it 
has burned deep enough they clap on a piece of raw bark and extin- 
guish the fire. By this means they round them out with wonderful 
symmetry and elegance, leaving the sides and ends very thin and as 
smooth as if they had been sand-papered. At the stern they burn and 
polishi out a neat little bracket, wliich serves as a seat for tlie boatman. 
They spend an infinity of puddering on these canoes, two Indians 
sometimes working on one five or six months, burning, scraping, and 
polishing with stones (nowadays they use iron tools and dispatch the 
work in a few days). When completed they are sold for various sums, 
ranging from $10 to $30, or even more. They are not as handsome as 
the Smith ^Uver or the T'-sin-uk canoes, but quite as serviceable. 

A large . ;ie will carry 5 tons of merchandise, and in early days they 
used to take many cargoes of fish from the Klamath, shooting the 
dangerous rapids and surf at the mouth with consummate skill, going 
boldlj^ to sea in heavy weather, and reaching Crescent City, 22 miles 
distant, whence they returned with merchandise. When tliey are not 



THE RAY COLLECTION FROM IIUPA RESERVATION. 231 

nsiiig- these canoes tliey tuiu tlieiu bottom side up on the sandy beach 
and bream them, or haul them into dauip and sliady coves, or cover them 
thickly- witli leaves and brushwood to prevent the thin ends from sun- 
cracking. When they do become thus cracked, they bore holes through 
with bucks-horn and bind the ends togetlier with withes, twisting the 
same tight with sticks — a kind of rude tourniquet, which closes up the 
cracks better than calking would do. {Cf. Powers, Coutr, N. A. Ethnol. 

III.) 

MONEY AND ITS USES. 

The money-box is made from a section of antler (Fig. 109), probably 
elk. The rough outer portion has been removed and the white sub- 
stance cut to resemble a flat column with banded ends. There are in 
this case rings at either end. Between these bands, on the concave 
portion, a slit 2 J inches long and about \ of an inch wide is cut 
down to the core ; the latter is carefully scraped out to form a box or 
pocket. Into this dentalium shells or Indian currency are put (Fig. 
110), a little plate of antler laid over the mouth, and a long strip of buck- 
skin wrapped many times around the whole and tucked in. (Fig. 109a.) 
In this particular specimen the tail of some fur-bearing animal did serv- 
ice, in addition to the mouth cover, in keeping the money from rattling 
around in the box. 

A more elaborate money-bos is made of a large section of elk horn; 
0| inches long and 2;^ inches thick. The central column is 4 inches ; 
the remaining si>ace foims two bands at the ends, each ornamented with 
three deeply cut lines and the etched triangles which constitute the 
chief clement of a carver's ornament among the Hupas. The mouth of 
the box is 3A by -^ inches. On either side of the mouth a rectangular 
space is etched in triangles, leaving plain rhombs, no two of which are 
of the same proportions. The covering of the mouth in this case was 
the ivory scale of a centigrade thermometer — ominous comment upon 
the fate of some former prospector. Around the cover was wrapped 
more than a yard and a half of buckskin, about three-fourths of an inch 
in width. The contents of this box were most interesting. Six denta- 
lium shells, which we shall number from 1 to 6, were thus characterized : 

1. 2^ inches, wrapped with red fish skin. 

2. Same length, wrapped with red fish skin. 

3. 2 inches, wrapped around the top with woody fibers. 

4. 2 inches, wrapped only in upper portion with snake skiru 

5. li| inches, wrapped with maiden's-hair-feru stalk. 

6. 1^ inches, wrapped with woody fiber, dyed red. 

Other shells are wrapped with skin and fern and tipped with wood- 
l)ecker feathers. 

The Karok, says Mr. Powers, use the red scalp of the woodpecker for 
money, which rates at $2.50 to $5 apiece, and the dentalium shell, of 
which they grind off the tip and string it on strings. The shortest pieces 
are worth 2o cents j the largest about $2 ; the value increasing rapidly 



23.2 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

with tlio leugtb. The .striugs are inade about as long as a mau's arm. 
It ii? called allikoeliik (Yurok "Indian money"). Formerly' it was 
valued at $40 to $50 a string, but now the value has fallen. Shell and 
feather money arc demanded as fines from those who in any way trans- 
gress the boundaries of religious rule, fines of $20, $30, $40, being re- 
quired of one who profanely looks upon the smoke of the propitiatory 
fire. 

Spies were often employed to visit the enemy's camp, and were paid 
for this dangerous service as high as ten strings of allikochik, or $100, 
contributed by the leading men. 

Hupa allikochik is rated a little differently from the Karok. The 
standard of measurement is a string of five shells. Nearly every man 
has ten lines tattooed across the inside of his left arm about half way 
between the wrist and elbow, and in measuring shell money he takes 
the string in his right liand, draws one end over his left thumb nail, and 
if the other end reaches to the upi)ermost of the tattoo lines the five 
shells are worth $25 in gold, or $5 a shell. Of course it is only one in 
ten tliousand that is long enough to reach this high value. The longest 
ones usually seen are worth about $2 — that is, $10 to the string. Single 
shells are also measured on the creases on the inside of the left middle 
finger, a $5 shell being one which will reach between tlie two extreme 
creases. No shell is treated as monej' at all, unless it is long enough 
to rate at 25 cents. Below that it degenerates into "■ squaw money," 
and goes to form a part of a woman's necklace. Real money is orna- 
mented with little scratchings or carvings, and with very narrow strips 
of thin, fine fish-skin wrapped spirally around the shells, and some- 
times a tiny tuft of scarlet woodpecker's down is pasted on the base of 
the shell.* 

The shell money of the Round Valley Indians is made of a shell found 
on this coast, something like that of an oyster, only it has a smooth sur- 
face. (Fig. 111.) Similar disk money is from the shell of the olivella, the 
disks being cut from the lip or the shells being strung after grinding 
away the apex. This is broken into pieces about the size of a dime ; 
the Indians then drill a small hole through the center of each with a 
sharp-pointed flint (Fig. 112), by means of the pump drill with fly-wheel 
attachment. Thirty or forty of these are strung on a tough piece of 
wood about the size of a knitting-needle. They are then rubbed care- 
full}^ on a smooth-surfaced stone until they become perfectly round. 
Eighty 6f these pieces are equal to a dollar. This description of the 
manufacture of flat-shell money is extremely valuable, since strings of 
this same character are collected as far south as Panama, and in some 
of the Polynesian groups. Another form of money described by Mr. 
Purcell has long been noted in California collections, especially that of 
Captain Wilkes, but its significance has not been appreciated. They 

* Tlie money ol' No Britain, called Dawarra, is made of small, rare shells perforated 
and strung on liber. It is counted by measuring. 



THE RAY COLLECTION FROM TfUPA RESERVATION. 233 

liiivo another money much more valuable. It i.s a very pretty stone 
and looks like a fine piece of meerschaum. It is found in the mountains 
and is very scarce. They do not cut it into small pieces as they do the 
shells, but work it into cylinders from 1 to 3 inches long, which are 
made round and polished by the same x>i'ocesses applied to the shell 
money. 

A piece of this stone 2 inches long and three-quarters of an inch thick 
is worth $10. They wear this money around their necks, and when one 
dies they often put $500 or $()00 worth in the grave. 

One sees among the Wailakki very pretty strings of sliell mone,y 
called toJcalU, consisting of thin circular disks about a quarter of an 
inch in diameter, and resembling somewhat the Catholic rosaries, iu hav- 
ing one larger button or " Gloria Patri" to every ten "Ave Marias." 
Mr. Powers speaks of a Wailakki squaw with ear-droi)s or pendants 
carved from the ear-shell (tialiotis) in the shape of tish and exliibiting 
the glinting tints of that beautiful sliell to great advantage, and he 
says it is the only instance of fancy shell or bone carving aside from 
the common shell money that he has ever noticed. 

Their mode of settling difficidties is to kill their enemies at the first 
favorable opportunity, and then if they wish to avoid a similar fate, a 
settlement is made with the relatives of the deceased, and the dead In- 
dian is paid for according to rank and station. This payment is made 
in Indian money, or perhaps in white (hMU'-skins or woodpeckers' heads. 
Tlien all are supposed to be friendly and they have their appropriate 
dance over it. 

The murder of a man's dearest relativ'e may be' compounded for by 
the payment of money, the price of an ordinary Indian's life being one 
string. If the money is paid without higgling the slayer and the 
avenger become at once boon companions. If not, the avenger must 
have the murderer's blood, and a system of retaliation is initiated, 
which, however, may at any moment be arrested by the payment of 
monej'. 

Among the Patawat of Humboldt Bay the fine for tlie murder of a 
man is ten strings of alliko(;hilc, each string consisting of ten pieces; 
for the murder of a woman it is five strings, or one huixlred dollars, and 
fifty dollars, respectively. A man's life with tliis tribe is valued at six 
canoes, each one occupying in its manufacture three months' time of 
two Indians, or the labor of one man for tliree years. 

A wife is ])urchased at prices varying ironi two to fifteen strings. 

Judge lloseborough states that with the llupas these ])ayments are not 
demanded until the first full moon after the murder. Then the demand 
is presented by a third party. If the money is paid at once, tlio affair 
is amicably settled and is never alluded to again. 

If they have a quarrel and it is not settled on the spot, they refuse t:) 
speak to each otlier; but if after avthile one desires to 0])en friendly 
relations, he offers to pay the other man a certain amount of shell 



234 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

money. If this offer is accepted they exchange moneys (not necessarily 
in equal amounts) and harmony is at once restored. 

Courtship is also conducted by means of money among the Klamath 
and Trinity' River tribes. A wife seldom brings less than half a 
string, and when she belongs to an aristocratic family, is pretty and 
skillful in making acorn bread and weaving baskets, she sometimes 
costs as high as two strings, say $80 or $100. 

No marriage is legal or binding unless preceded by the payment of 
money, and that family is most aristocratic which pays the highest price 
for the wife. So far is this shell aristocracy carried that the children 
of a woman for whom no money was paid are accounted no better than 
bastards, and the whole family is contemned. 

In Placer County, Cal., the Nishinam Indians dun their debtors 
with a device called sandiest, which is thrown into the wigwam of the 
tardy individual. (Fig. 113.) A number of sticks 4 inches long and 
about I of an inch thick are arranged on a string like a rope 
ladder. These sticks are painted with streaks of black and red, and 
represent the amount and character of the debt. 

GAMBLING AND MEDICINE. 

For gambling they have a bunch of small wands, one of which has a 
black band around the center. The game is i)Iayed by any number that 
wish to engage in betting. Two dealers sit opposite each other on a 
blanket, each backed by two or more singers and a drummer, and the 
game commences by one of the dealers taking the sticks in both hands, 
about equally divided, and holding them behind his back, shuffling 
them from hand to hand, after which he brings them in front of his 
body with both hands extended and the sticks grasped so the plaj^ers can 
not see the centers. The opposite dealer clasps his hands together two 
or three times and points towards the hand which he thhiks holds the 
stick with the black center. Should he guess correctly he takes the 
deal, and holds it until his opponent wins it back in like manner. For 
each failure a forfeit is paid, and one is also demanded when the dealer 
loses the deal. 

Friends of each party make outside bets on the dealers, and each 
dealer's band plays and sings as long as he holds the deal. 

There is another game, essentially the same as the one above de- 
scribed, except that they use a smaller number of sticks, and the joker 
is blackened only in the center and the others at both ends and centers. 
Both games are called Iciu. 

Rattles employed by medicine men and in gambling are composed of 
many hoofs and hooflets of the black-tail deer. Each piece is pierced 
through the apex and suspended on a short thread npon which four 
wiiitc beads are also strung. These pendants are then fastened to a long 
belt of cloth or leather and worn around the waist or held in the hand* 
The hoofs striking together x)roduce a sharj) rattling sound. A small 



THE RAY COLLECTION FROM HUPA RESERVATION. 235 

graceful leus-sliapcd rattle mounted ou a stick is held in the hand of the 
dancer. (Fig. 115.) 

'hie. llupa drum is a rectangular box coveretl with leather and has little 
merit as a musical instrument.* (Fig. 119.) 

The riupa make tolerably agreeable music on a small bone whistle 
made either single or double. (Figs. 115-llS.) Dr. Abbott describes 
and figures a collection of prehistoric whistles of bono from southwestern 
California so similar to those of the Hupa that the continuity of music 
in prehistoric and recent times is made out. (Wheeler, Vol. VII, 23.) 

It is an important principle which archaeologists sometimes overlook 
that arts may survive and obey the laws of teclmic evolution even 
though the men through whose instrumentality they live and have their 
being luive had no immediate blood relationship. 

Among the Karoks of California there are two kinds of Shamans — 
the root doctors and the barking doctors. The latter (women mostly) 
squat like a dog before tlie patient and bark for hours. The root doctor 
with potions, poultices, etc., medicate the parts where the ailmeiit is 
discovered. They believe that witches cause a snake, frog, lizard, or 
other reptile to fasten to the body and to grow through tlie skin into 
the viscera. The barking doctor first discovers the seat of the disease 
and then sucks until the blood Hows. She then takes an emetic and 
vomits up a frog, which she pretends came from the patient. 

ABORIGINAL BOTANY. 

The following-named plants enter in some manner into the daily life 

and experience of the northern California Indians, The list is far from 

exhaustive, but an effort in the right direction, which it is hoped may be 

followed np and corrected with reference to all aboriginal peo])les. 

Most of the information is drawn from Mr. Powers, Dr. Watson, and the 

Wheeler Eeport, Vol. VI : 

Aesculiis caltfornica, Nutt. Buckeye. The shoots used for arrow- 
shafts and the pounded nuts used in stupefying fish, also eaten in 
times of scarcity. 

Allium cepa, Lunlmp, in Yokuts. Eaten as food. 

Allium sativum. Eaten raw or roasted. 

Allit. a kind of salt used for seasoning greens. The Indians pull up 
the grass in low alkaline grounds when the dew is on, and soak off 
the salt, or they sweep a stick through the grass and wash it to 
l^rocure the salt, which is strongly impregnated with alum. 

Alnus. Alder. 

Amenopsis californica. Hooker. Yerba Mansa, Lipits, in Yokuts. 
A piperaceous plant whose root is soaked in water and the infusion 
drank for a bad stomach. 

Angelica. ChehinJcinlcu, in Iluchuom, Muhaclialcolen^ in Ilupa, The 
root is used as medicine and also as a charm by many tribes. The 
tender shoots are eaten as greens in spring. 



23G PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

Anticlea nuttallii, or Zygadenus venenosus. Black-bulb grass, 
or by some tribes, deatli camass. The uut is considered poisonous 
by Indians of California. 

Arceuthobium DiVATiiCATUM, Eugelm. Mistletoe whicli grows ou 
the irinus edulis monophylla. This as "well as the pitch of the 
same trees good for coughs, colds, and rheumatism. Making a fire 
with it the Indians fumigate themselves therein. 

Arctostafhylos glauca, Lindl. Great berried manzanita. Leaves 
smoked with native tobacco. The dried berries worn in necklaces. 

A. tomentosa, Doug], and A. pungens. Fruit eaten largely by all 

Califoruia Indians, raw or pounded into flour and made into mush 
or stored for winter. An agreeable cider is made by soakiug the 
flour and drawing ofl" the liquor. 

AscLEPiAs, Lowland milk-weed. Potter Valley and South Eel River 
Indians make strings, cords, aud nets of the inner bark of this 
plant. They crush the dry stalk with their teeth or between two 
stones. They theu strip ofl" the outer bark and twist the bast into 
threads. 

Atropis TENUiFOLTA, Watson. One of the "bunch grasses j" an ex- 
cellent forage ; the seeds eaten by the natives. 

BiGELOViA. Used as medicine by the Indians of Walker Lake, Xevada. 

Blemosperma californicum, Torrey and Gray. Seeds gathered with 
the fanning tray and seed basket and made into mush or bread. 

BRODiiEA CONGESTA, Smith. Purple flowered grass. A liliaceous 
plant; the nut eaten raw or roasted. 

B. VOLUBILTS, Baker ; STROPnoLiRiON californicum, Torr. Climb- 

ing grass. A liliaceous plant ; the nut eaten raw or roasted. Used 
for ornament by whites. 

Bromus virens, Buckl ; Ceratochloa grandiflora, ITook. Wild 
grass. Fiber used in making cord aud netting by Ilupa. 

Calliproa lutea, Lindl.; Brodi^a ixioides. Smith. Yellow blos- 
som grass. A liliaceous plant ; the nut eaten raw or roasted. 

Castilleia. Fotal'-hi-lcai-uin, in Yokuts painted cup. Use not given. 

Cercis occidentalis, Torrey. SaMttu, in Yokuts. Wood split fine 
and used as sewing material in the coiled basketry, the basis of the 
coil being willow twig. 

CnLOROGALUM POMERiDiANUM, Kunth. TroJcot, iu Yokuts. Soap 
plant. Root eaten in times of scarcity. Soaked in hot water it is 
used in removing tar worn by widows in mourning. The pounded 
root mixed in water is employed in stupefying fish. Heated and 
laid on old sores it cleanses and heals them. The fiber is also 
made into brooms and household brushes. 

Clattonia PERFOLiATAjDon. Wild Icttucc. Used for food. Mr.Pow- 
ers says that Indians near Auburn lay quantities of the lettuce 
near red-ant nests for the insects to circulate through it; after- 
wards the ants are shaken out and the Indians cat the plant with 
relish, averring that a sour taste has been imparted to it. 



THE RAY COLLECTION FROM HUPA RESERVATION. 237 

CoMPOSiT-^, Ld'chiin, in Yokuts. The seeds of inauy species used for 

pinole aud liigbly esteemed. 
Cruciferje, Kcijetmlij iu Yokuts. Seeds of several species used iu 

making iianada or musli. 
Cyclobotiira, Beuth. ; Calochortus. Beaver-tail grass. Genus of 

liliaceous plants ^Yitll many species. Nut eaten raw or roasted. 
Datura meteloides, D. C. Tannailch, in Yokuts. Jimson weed. 

Pounded roots gootl for cuts and bruises. Decoction drank as 0])i- 

ate, especially by shamans, who are sometimes killed by it. 

EcniVERIA LANCEOLATA, Nutt.; COTYLEDON LANCEOLATA, Beilth. and 

Hook. Eock lettuce. One of the crassulaccie. Eaten raw. 

Eremocarpus setigerus, Benth. Little mullein. Euphorbiaceous 
plant ; decoction used as cure ibr ague. 

Erodiuh CICUTARIUM. Po/t7;c?(f.v, in Yokuts. Pin clover, pin grass. 
One of the geraniaceai; eaten raw when tender or boiled for 
greens. An excellent forage plant, reputed to impart an excel- 
lent flavor to milk and butter. 

Eriodyction glutinosum, Beuth. KitnilsiLm Yokuts. Yerba Santa. 
Decoction drank for fever and bad blood. 

EscnoLTZiA CALIFORNIGA, Cham. Watrdlo, in Yokuts. Califor- 
nia poppy. Either boiled or roasted with hot stones and then laid 
in water. 

FRANGULA CALIFORNICA, Gray; linAMNUSCALIFORNICUS, Eschholtz. 

Buckthorn. Poot heated hot and placed on aching tooth. 

Galium. Used by the Nishinam as an ague medicine. The leaves and 
stems are heated and placed on affected parts for rheumatism. 

Grass nuts. Large number of species of bulbous plants under this 
general name are ijried out of the ground with the i)rimitive dig- 
ging stick and eaten raw or roasted. 

Grass seeds. Almost every edible seed in Caliibniia Ims been discov- 
ered by the Indians, who apply to them the general term of grass 
seeds. These are inarched aiul ground and eateu uncooked, or 
made into mush or cakes. 

Greens. The list of plants eaten iu the spring as salad is very exten- 
sive. 

nESPEROSCORDIUM LACTEUM, LiNDL. = BRODIylSA LACTA, WatSOU. 

White-flowered grass. A liliaceous i)lant, the nut eaten raw or 

roasted. 
JuNCUS. Mr. Powers tells us that the small bulrush is hatcheled 

with flints or finger-nails, bleached, and woven into breech cloths, 

etc. 
Labiatje. Several species of mints are drunk in a tea or decoction 

for coughs and colds. 
Madaria dissitiflora, Gray. One of the compositaij seeds said to 

be as rich as butter. 
Melica. Eateu raw or boiled for grceus. 



238 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

MiMULUS LUTEUS. Mask flower. Oue of the Scropbulariacise. Used 
for greens in the spring. 

Mushroom. Eaten raw or roasted. 

NicoTiANA QUADRivALYis, Gray, IST. PLUiMBAGiNiFOLTA, Bolander. 
Logon, in Yokuts. Wild tobacco. Smoked alone or mixed with 
manzanita leaves. Lias a pungent, peppery taste. Said to have 
been rudely cultivated or protected by the Indians by keeping 
down inimical weeds. This primitive agriculture is probable, since 
the Pimos of Southern California have a planting festival in the 
spring, when they climb the mountains and insert gourd seeds into 
congenial crevices of the rocks, leaving them to grow.- In autumn 
they return to gather the harvest of gourds, v.'hich enter largely 
into their domestic economy. The Yokuts dry their tobacco, beat 
it very fine, then wet and compress it into large, solid lumps. It 
is used frequently as a poultice on cuts. Professor Watson thinks 
the Nicotiana higelovii is the original of the quadrivalvis. 

Parmelta SAXICOLA. a greenish-gray lichen, from which a tea is 
made as a remedy for colic. 

Pellea bkeweri, Eaton. A kind of fern used as tea. 

Phacelia. There are thirty five species of this Hydrophyllaceous 
plant. Mr. Powers mentions Phacelia in the Indian botany, but 
does not give the use. 

Phoradendron viLLOSUM, Engelm. Oak mistletoe. Smoked by 
Chimariko as a substitute for tobacco. 

PHOTINIA ARBUTIFOLIA, Lilldl., IIeTEROMELES ArBUTIFOLIA, lloc- 

mer. California Holly. Berries eaten with relish. 
PiNUS EDULis, Engelm. Nut or silver pine. The piiion pine, the 
most useful tree to northern California Indians. JN^nts for food, 
poultice, dress, nnd jewelry. Inner bark, buds, aud cone cores 
used for food when tender in the spring. Pitch placed on sores, 
arrow wouiuls, etc. Cone core and bunch-grass boiled together for 
hair-dj^e. 

PiNUS LAMBERTIANA, Dougl., P. FlEXILIS, JameS, P. SABINIANA, 

Dougl. All furnish nuts for food aud the shells are worked into 

necklaces and other ornaments. 
QuERCUS AGUiFOLius, N6e. Nishinam eat the acorns. 
QuERCUS GAMBELii. Usiu, ill Yokuts. White oak. Acorns used most 

commonly for food. 
Q. LOBATA, N(je. Q. Breweri, Eugelui. Ein'min, in Yokuts. Burr 

oak. Staple food, but inicrior to Q. Gambellii. 
Q. DENSIFLORA. Chestuut oak. For food. 
Q. SONOMENSIS, Benth. Q. Kellogii, Newberry. The black oak. 

Acorns eaten when no others are i^rocurable. 
Q. WiSLiZENiA, A. II. The live-oak. The Nishinam eat the acorns 

when they can i)rocure no other. 



Smithsonian Report, 1886, Parti. — Ray Collection. Wlason. 



Plate 



v^ 



k^^i^.r^l'- y 






^. 



X 










7^£^ 




'A^r^iL.- -;^jr^_ 



i ./ .- 



\ 




\ 



r 






•^. 



■•«n«».\<e:a „ 




V. 






•i 



Smithsonian Report, 1886, Part I —Ray Collection, Mason 



Plate II 





{6.1 



h'^'T^^* 







'% 









i-/(fif»' 








,■ ft* I'f * M )/ 

li<^i 17,-1, : 








Smithsonian Report, 1886, Pact I.- Ray Collection. Mason 



Plate lil, 



.,xTi>^ 




/ 

I ' 



^^T" 



■"^-^i^ 



'] 




,-«-'!'3tS??t^2»- 



% 













^V 




sA 






,-<«e'°fe&: 



--<. 



>^-.N 



-^^A 






A 



J 



12 



Smithsonian Report, 1886, Part I.— Ray Collection. Mason. 



Plate IV. 



.^^'^. 




n 






16. 



/ 



/ 



y^ 




19. 



Smithsonian Report, 1886, Part l.-Ray Collcct.on, Mason. 



Plate V. 














i 



Smithsonian Report, 1886, Part I.- Ray Collection. Mason. 



Plate VI. 



-n 



^ kf**/ 



'\- i ^ , ^i^ _ ':^x. 










Snithsonian Report, 1886, Part I.— Ray Collection. Mason, 



Plate VII 



*auh^' i t^h A i'^) ^^ ^\ ^^ ^ '* ^ ;'W'% ( 




Smithsonian Report, 1886, Part I.— Ray Collection. Mason. 



Plate VIII. 




---^X 



Smithsonian Report, i 886, Part I.— Ray Collection. Mason. 



Plate IX. 



^wT*-^ „_-^ 






















Smithsonian Report. 1886 Part I.— Ray Collection. Mason. 



Plate X. 








|f;K,l,'l'yi# 




Smithsonian Report, 1886, Part I. Ray Collection. Mason. 



PLATE XI. 





m. 



Smithsonian Report, 1886, Part I. -Ray Collection. Mason. 



Plate XII. 




Smithsonian Report, 1886, Part I.— Ray Coliection. Mason. 



Plate XIII. 




Smithsonian Report, 1886, Part I.— Ray Collection. Maso.i 



Plate XIV. 




Smithsonian Report, 1 886, Part I.— Ray Collection. Mason. 



Plate XV. 



111 1 



!' 't\ 



; I 







Smithsonian Report, 1886, Part I.— Ray Collection. Mason. 



Plate XVL 






i'( 



fmr~^ 



If AT 



«? 




uu 




I / 




*l •■! 




71. 




Smithsonian Report, 1886, Part I.— Ray Collection. Mason. 



PLATE XVII. 



j33^/...;.7,73BS,mi 




/" 



O. 




/ 



Sminsonian Report, 1886, Part I.— Ray Collection. Mason 



Plate XVIll. 












V<5: 








Smithsonian Report, 1886, Part I.— Ray Collection, Mason. 



Plate XIX. 





in, 





Smithsonian Report, 1886, Part l.-Rr.y Collection. Mason. 



Plate XX, 








V7^ 








m iAV^H 




1. 









e^ 



Smithsonian Report, 1886, Part I.— Ray Collection. Mason. 



Plate XXI 




fe- -alL^jr*'^^-. 




Smithsonian Report, 1886, Part I.— Ray Collection. Mason. 



Plate XXI 



100 



^. 



99 . 




I 



Smithsonian Report, 1886, Part I.- Ray Collfcction. Mason. 



Plate XXIII. 




ffl'V'kf ^V 




103. 



Tiithsonian Report, 1886, Part I.— Ray Collection. Mason. 



Plate XXIV. 



1^ 



•4- \ 
I I 
I- ■■ 



\ 






(i ^U - if 



..r 



/OS. 




106. 



Smithsonian Report, 138C, Part I. — Ray Collection. (Vlason. 



Plate XXV. 




J07. 





/09M-: 



Smitnsonian Report, 1886, Part I— Ray Collection. Mason. 



Plate XXV! 




/ye 



THE RAY COLLECTION FROM IIUPA RESERVATION. 239 

Eanunculus californicus, Bcutb. Yellow blossom or erow-foot. 
The seeds are gathered by sweeping through the phuits a long- 
handled basket or a gourd. The dry, parched fiour has the taste 
of parched corn. 

Knus AROMATICA, var, TRILOBA, Gray. The fruit is said to be pleas- 
antly acid and the slender twigs make beautiful coiled basketry. 

K. DIVERSILOBA, Torr. and Gray. Toison oak. Indians less poisoned 
by it. Leaves eaten as antidote to poison. Women use the leaves 
freely in cooking. They lay them on a, pile of roots or a batch of 
corn bread over which are placed hot stones and earth. 

EuMEX. Yellow dock. Leaves eaten in spring, iioot heated and ap" 
plied as a poultice for acute pain. 

Salix. Willow. Twigs inade into arrow-shai'ts and form the body of 
the coiled basketry. 

Salvia Columbina. Seeds roasted and ground by Southern Cali- 
fornians and Mexicans. Seed-like nutlets infused in water form a 
pleasant, mucilaginous drink, which is largely consumed. 

Sambucus. Elder. Berries eaten. 

Sanicula tuberosa. Torrey. The turkey pea. An umbelliferous 
food plant. 

SciRPUS lacustris, Liun. Tule plant. Pollen used for food. It is 
beaten off in a cloth and made into i)inole or mush. The bulbous 
roots are eaten and the stalks are exceedingly useful in matting and 
basketry. 

Sporobolus asperifolius. Tfiulc-lcus, in Yokuts. A coarse grass, 
whose leaves are extensively used in basketry. 

Trifolium. Clover. Talcorncs, in Yokuts. Boiled with dock and 
other herbs for greens. Also eaten raw. 

ViTis CALIFORNICA, Benth. Wild grape. The fruit universally eaten. 

Xerophyllu^i tenax, Nutt. Used by Hupa iu making ornamental 
basketry, 



A KAVAJO ARTIST AND HIS NOTIONS OF MECHANICAL 

DRAWING. 

By R. W. Siiufeldt. 

One of the best known sub-chiefs of the Navajo Indians in north- 
western New Mexico is Mariano. This man controls a cami) of his people 
some 20 miles from the military station of Fort Wiugate, which latter 
place he frequently visits. His father was a notable chief before him, 
and Mariano is highly respected for his sagacity and wise ruling among 
the remnant of the tribe now under his sway. 

An eld er sister of his, known among the Navajos b the name of 
Esta-yeshi, lives in one of the crudely constructed habitr ions built by 
these people on the hill-sides close to the Government buildings of Fort 
Wingate. Esta-yeshi, of whom we present an admirable portrait, is 
exceedingly masculine in her tastes and instincts, even for a Navajo 
woman, and when she came to have her picture taken she insisted upon 
holding her revolver in one hand and steadying her favorite Winchester 
beside her with the other. The Navajos say that this woman is one of 
the best, if not the best, blanket weaver in the tribe, and many a time 
have I watched her skillful weaving, with interest. Nor does she lack 
intelligence in other respects, for she is often consulted in matters of no 
little import in the tribe. 

Esta-yeshi has a grown son of about twenty-two or twenty-three 
years of age, whom the Navajos call "Choh," which means some kind of 
a bird, I believe. 

Choh had an unfortunate accident hai)pen to him as an infant. He 
\^as strapped up, in the manner of all Navajo papooses, to his little 
board in a thoroughly confined manner, and had been i^laced near a 
smoldering camp-lire by his mother. Something or other tipped him 
ovTr, face downwards in the hot ashes, and before any one could reach 
him his face all about his mouth had become frightfully burned. The 
scar from this has never left him, and his nose is nearly as flat as his 
face to day. 

This Indian is one of the ever-to-be-seen characters about tlie garri- 
son of Wingate. Usually he is extremely untidy in his api)earance and 
awkward in his carriage. Indeed, with his eccentric movements and 
great moppish head of hair and highly revolting features, many of the 
children stand in great awe of the poor, disfigured fellow. 

He is by no means the stupid clown we would take him to be, how- 
ever, upon first sight, as we will very soon see. 

210 



A NAVAJO ARTIST, ETC, 241 

Long before I knew Choli liad any claims to being one of the artists 
of tlie tribe I bad been struck on several occasions, when closely study- 
ing the peculiar expressions of his face, unknown to hiiu, by certain 
lights of intelligence that would conic into it in spite of its pitiful de- 
formity; these -veremuch eidiancedby his overflowing good hunu)r, for 
ho is a warm-hearted, happy type of an Indian, in spiteof his repulsive 
exterior. 

It is wonderful to see the affection that Esta-yeshi has for this scarred 
and half-crippled son of hers. She is never so hajipy as when he is 
about; has tijught him all that lies within her power to teach ; does 
everything for him, and is pleased to the last degree when he will aUow 
her to decorate his person with all those trappings so impressive in the 
eyes of the Indian and in which we see liim decked out in the accom- 
])anying engraving. The two eagle feathers at the side of his head de- 
note his claim to royal blood. 

Fort Win -ite, in common with all fruited States military stations on 
the frontier, I'as its building known as the trader's store, tliough the 
post-office iivM other minor estiiblishments are included under the same 
roof. This building is a great resort for the idle ones among the !Nava- 
jos, who, during most of the time on week days, lounge about on 
its veranda, incessantly smoking their cigarettes, or if it be cold they 
practice the same around the stove in the center of the main room 
within. 

Choh forms no exception to this almost general failing, but is, indeed, 
reckoned among the most inveterate of the regular habitues. When he 
comes, however, his time is rarely spent in idleness, for, after rapidly 
pufling through one or two cigarettes, he will saunter over to the dis- 
tant end of one of the long counters of the salesroom, where lie is soon 
at work on some of the sheets of wrapping-paper there to be found with 
his bit of illy sharpened pencil. It is a curious sight to see this Indian 
at his drawing. He is obliged to bring his face almost down in (contact 
with the paper on account of his eyes, which were permanently injured 
by the burn 1 have already alluded to above. In this position tlui gi-eat 
mat of coarse hair which covers his head tumbles all over, so as almost 
to hide the subject which engages him, from the observer at his side. 

The first time I overlooked Choh to see what he v.as about he was 
laboring away at a gaudily dressed chief riding at full tilt ui)on his 
Indian steed. His work ^vas rather above that of the average Indian 
artist, but as I had seen manj- of their i)roductions before and watched 
many of them while they executed them, I paid no special attention to 
this additional example of an old stor}*. 

Choh has been presented at various times with one of those red and 
blue pencils, when the results of his handiwork exhibit a striking ap- 
pearance indeed. Flaming red frogs with blue strijjcs adown their backs 
and sides, with still iripre pretentious birds, will be found on every piece 
of paper that comes beneath the h;ind ol' this untutored artist. 
H. Miss. 170 1<; 



242 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

His figures of Indian men and women are particularly worthy of no- 
tice, and one in watching him carefully can gain some idea of the rela- 
tive importance that he attaches to the various parts of their war and 
ordinary trappings through the emi>hasis with which he depicts some of 
thein. 

But Choh is not much of a naturalist, as his woful delineations of 
birds and animals will testify, and it was not until a week or more 
ago that I accidentally discovered the true channel in which his talents 
lay. I was passing tlirough the salesroom with my budget of mail 
when I noticed this Indian as usual bent over his paper and more than 
ordmarily absorbed in the design he was engaged upon, beneath the 
great dislieveled mat of a winter's growth of the blackest of hair that 
hung down from every part of his head. 

The glance I was enabled to get at his paper satisfied me in an in- 
stant as to the cause of his increased interest. He was at work uj^on a 
locomotive, with its tender and a couple of baggage cars, and was just 
then giving the finishing touches to his design. The effort attracted 
my attention at once, because an Indian's idea of a locomotive, drawn 
by himself without the object before him, was to me something certainly 
worthy of examination. The drawing of birds, and frogs, and lizards, 
in their crude way is a thing we somehow naturally look for, and as it 
has been a fact for so long a time before us, perhaps we take it, too, as 
a matter of course that such people would make endeavor to depict ob- 
jects which were constantly before their eyes in their common environ- 
ment. A moment's consideration would also convince us that among 
these very Indians, as it is with more highly civilized races, there 
would be different degrees of merit exhibited even among those who 
hiid claim to being proficient in the same branch. I saw this well 
exemplified nearly a year ago, among the Zuni women, as they fashioned 
and painted their pottery at the Pueblo, and no doubt it holds good 
everywhere and in all paths of human acti\'ity. It was very prettily 
brought before my mind in the case of the Zuni women, for one of the 
group that I was watching on the occasion referred to was painting a 
jar for me, when I got her to understand that it was my wish that she 
should incorporate an animal and a few birds in her design. At this 
she despondingly shook her head and pointed, with rather an envious 
gesture, I thought, to one of her companions who sat opposite as the one 
Avho was skilled in that part of the work. 

Another thing I have noticed is that the majority of these Indian art- 
ists are great mimics, and there is much to lead us to believe that 
inatiy of their designs, both in pottery and in art, have become quite 
stereotyped. Not long ago I pointed out this tiict in an article which 
I contributed to Science, wherein I showed how the Zunis had clung, 
]»erhaps for ages, to a common model for the owl. 

r.nt to draw a loconu^tive at all well is a vastly ditferent thing, and 
])arti('iihu]y so wImmi it is done from nuMuory alone. This is a great, 



A NAVAJO ARTIST, ETC. 24.') 

complicated tliiii.n, crowded witli deluil, and an object which the ma- 
jority of tlic Navajos have only had the opportunity of seeing; for a few 
yeai;<. The question possesses no little interest Irom an educational 
point of view; for if one full-blooded Navajo Indian can, of his own 
volition, thus stej) out of the archaic aboriginal rut and make a i)ass- 
able picture of a steam engine, are there not hidden sparks and abilities 
in other directions, and how would this one thrive if it were properly 
guided and nourislied '! 

Choh presented me with his drawing, and during the course of the 
day made me two others upon some rather common drawing paper, 
which I gave him for the purpose. The last tw^o efforts were even 
better than the one he bad made for his own amusement, and each pos- 
sesses points of interest that thej' do not have in common. 

I selected the one I considered the best of all, and present it here as 
one of the illustrations of this paper, it having been reduced rather 
more than one-third for the purpose. 

In one of the others he drew the telegraph })oles and wires alongside 
the track, and placed a bird on top of eacli pole — a very common sight 
in this prairie country; but the birds are entirely out of proportion 
with the rest of the picture, being fully ten times too large. 

In the third he has attempted to represent the rays of light as they 
issue fron] the lieadlight, and the steam in this om> is blowing off. Ilis 
]»ow(us of observation have served him well here, i'or he has drawn the 
white steam simply in outline, and has tried to show how it cuts 
throngli the smoke, which is drawn black, as it comes from the stack. 

One of the most interesting things to me was to observe the great 
care he took to show the "bright line" on the smokestack. Not only 
tluit, but he was familiar with the fact that it did not show on the 
under side of the upper enlarged portion of this part of the engine. 
lie has likewise represented it upon the brass steam-(;hest and else- 
where, and there is an evident attempt to properly shade the bod^- of 
the engine itself, or boiler. Now, surely this is good work for an un- 
taught Indian, and I can attest it is far above anything that I have 
ever seen one of them attempt before, much loss accomplish. 

Again, the detail about the engine is by no means bad, ami, moreover, 
each of these locomotives is upon a somewhat different model, as in one 
he has the bell in a frame in front of the sand-box, in anotlier it is belted 
to it, while finally, in the third, it is in the middle, between sand-box 
and steam-chest. The driving-gear is not as well shown in the figure 
as he is wont to nud^e it sometimes, and one has to but watch him draw 
these parts to become satisfied that the man is ignorant of the principle 
involved. 

He invariably places two men within the cab, ami takes evident pains 
to always draw the top of this part perfectly flat. 

For the tender he usually adopts one model, from which he rarely 
departs, though somet imes he fills it heaping full of coal, while at others, 



244 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTFIROPOLOGV, 

as in the illustration, lie neglects to put any in at all. Tic lias examined 
the method of coupling, for it is carefully shown in one of the figures, 
though in another a thickened line indicates this arrangement. 

It is an extraordinary thing to watch lum put the letters on the tender 
and baggage cars. He must make these entirely from memory, yet he 
never strikes it as they sliouhl be, for it is quite evident that his com- 
binations do not agree with the actual abbreviations used by the rail- 
way companies; yet Choh writes these on precisely as if he were posi- 
tive as to their correctness, and we nnist own that the form of the ma- 
jority of his capitals is not bad. He invariably, however, makes his 
great J's after this fashion,!,, and nearly always turns his capital Ws uj)- 
side down. Often he places the oblique bar across the door of the bag- 
gage car, with a window above it, and I see in one of the drawings, he has 
adopted the elevated plan of brakes seen in this class of cars. Tlere, 
again, however, it is quite clear that he has not mastered the use of this 
contrivance, perhaps one of the simplest in use of all the gearing em- 
ployed upon a train of cars. The perspective for the wheels, and the 
proper way of drawing them upon the oi)posite rails, is another weak 
l)oint, which he endeavors to conceal by filling it in with the shadow. 

These are the leading points which occur to me for criticism in this 
drawing, that, taken as a whole, is truly a wonderful piece of work for 
one of these people. Wiien we come to consider really how low they are 
in the scale of civilization, it is an astounding production. About 
Wingate, here, the majority of these savages live more like bears than 
men, sheltered as they are, summer and winter, in the low, rude 
"shacks," which they build of lindjs and twigs of trees on the hill-sides. 

Moreover, it is not as if this man had the o|)portunity of studying a 
locomotive every day of his life, for the railway station is fully three 
miles from his Indian home, and there is nothing else to induce him to 
go there. 



Smithsonian Repoit, 1886, Part I.— Navajo Artist, Shufeldt. 



Plate I. 







lkrf:> ,»li ':m: 







^^r^^^ 



Smithsonian Report, 1886, Part I.— _Navajo Artist. Shufeldt. 



Plate 11. 




Smithsonian Report, 1886, Part I.- Navajo Artist. Shufeldt 



Plate III. 




NOTES ON CUSTOMS OF THE DAKOTAllS. 

By I'AUiv JJi'X'KWiTii. 

The Bakotalis or Sioux now scattered over tlie i,n-eat Northwest are 
divided into seven bands and many sub-bands, as follows: 

(1) Sis si-ton-wans, or Village of the Marsh. The major portion of this 
band are now at Devil's Lake Agency, Dak, The 1 san-ties, a sub-band 
who take their name from a former residence at I-san-tinedi, or Knife 
Lake. 

(li) Wah-pe-ku-tes, or Leaf Shooters, a wandering band scattered over 
the prairies of the Northwest. 

(3) Wah-pe-ton-wans, or Village of the Leaves, from their homes in 
the woods. 

(4) I-hank-ton-waus, End Village of the Lake. 

(5) I-hank-ton-wanna. This band and the preceding, having united, 
are now known by the name of Yank-tons, and are ibund on tiie i)rairies 
and agencies of the Northwest. The sub-bands of this confederation are 
Pa-bak-sa, or Cut Heads j Wa-zikutes, or Pine Shooters; Ki-guk-sa, 
or Breakers of Law ; and the Hunk-pa di-dan. From the Wazikut'vs 
branch of this band the Assiu-ua-boines are said to have sprung. 

(()) Te-ton-wans, or Prairie Village, number over one-half of the entii-e 
Sioux nation, and comprise those bands most op[)Osed to cultivating 
th'j soil. General Custer was defeated and annihilated by this band. 
The sub-bands are as follows: Si cau-gu, or Burnt Thighs ; 1-ta-zipa, or 
Bow Pith; Si-ha-sa-pa, or Black Feet; Miu-ni-kau ye-wo-zu-pi, or 
They who plant by the water ; O-o-he-uon-pa, or Two Boilings ; O-glala, 
and Huidv-pa-pa. 

(7) Mdi-wa-kan-ton-wans, or Village of the Spirit Lake, from a former 
residence at Mille Lacs. 

Da-ko-tah is to say the leagued or the allied, and they speak of them- 
selves as the Oce-ti Sa-ko-wi, or Seven Council Fires. 

DANCES OF THE DAKOTAILS. 

Wi-casta-wa-kan, holy or medicine num, the high-priest in tlie reli- 
gious ceremonies of the Dakotahs, invariably a chief, who through 
these dances or religious ceremonies retains his inlluence in tlie tribe, 
understands thoroughly the medicinal properties of the various herbs 
used by them, and often performs cures acknowledged b}' Army sur- 
geons as renuirkable. An Indian staggering into camp many hours 

245 



246 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

after being" bit by a venomous snalce, his leg swollen horribly, was 
cured in a short time; the late Dr. IJe Wolf (U. S. Army surgeon killed 
in the Custer massaerc) and the writer §aw the man. The doctor said 
t here was no cure for him, yet he was cured by a medicine man. Another 
cure, a cataract of the eye, was effected b}^ the insertion within the lids of 
brass filings. To impress upon the mind of the jiatient the divine nat- 
ure of his medicine the niedicine man adds to the efticacy of his reme- 
dies, mysterious incantationSj contortions of feature ami body, accom- 
panied always by the drum, often placing upon the ground a paper or bark 
ligure, and while the friends are holding the patient over it, shoots it 
with his gun. As the patient is held over the figure the sickness falls 
to the ground, enters the figure, and as he kills it witli his incantations 
and his gun, it will not re-enter the patient. All this power is received, 
they say, through the Great Spirit, who confers upon them a spiritual 
medicine so powerlul tliat they can kill at will, resuscitate the dead, 
and cure the sick. The spiritual medicine is represented by a bunch of 
feathers, a claw, a bird or animal head, a pebble; anything, in fact, that 
strikes their fancy. To keep their medicine from the gaze of the pro- 
fane a medicine-bag is prepared from the skin of birds or small ani- 
mals, decorated with beads and porcupine quills, and in this bag the 
medicine is placed, and is carried with them always, as long as they are 
followers of the Wau-kan Waci-pi, holy or medicine dance, and as its 
name implies, tlie religion or worship of the medicine of the Dakotahs, 
their manner of worshiping the multiplicity of gods through their 
medicine. A council is held by the liead-men of the order, who appoint 
to act, as soldiers ten members of the order, who, selecting a suitable 
spot, erect a 3-foot barricade, in form an ellipse, at eacli end a tent, 
one for the high-priests to hold their councils, and in which to keep 
their Pa-zu-hi-ta-wau-kan, the other for the soldiers, who preserve 
order, wait upon the dancers, prevent spectators from leaning upon 
the barricade, and attend to a large cauldron of meat and wild turnips 
cooking over a fire imniediately in front of their tent, often replenished 
during the ceremonies. 

The high-priests entering the circle from their tent, and the soldiers 
taking their places, the members are admitted by families or groups, 
who, standing in line, lace the east, or medicine tent, in unison throw up 
their hands and shout, "Brothers, have mercy upon me." The head oi 
the family or spokesman relates where and when each one was initiated 
into the order, chanting a refrain to the high-priest and holding the 
medicine-bags in the left hand, tightly pressed against the heart, the 
right arm raised as if in the act of affirming, trots around the circle crying, 
"Friend and brother, have mercy upon me;" when reaching the start- 
ing i»lace he chants again, this time in. praise of the Wau kan Tan-ta, or 
Great Spirit, ami takes a seat u[)on the ground, leaning against tlie bar- 
ricade. All the members as they enter go through with the same pro- 
gramme. 



CUSTOMS Ol' THE UAKUTAS. 247 

TliC/ liij^li-priest, taking his scat in the mediciiio tent, a[tpoints tV)nr 
assistants; to one is given a suuill drum, to the next a piUow and stick, 
to the third a rattle, and the last assists in grnnting. The big drum 
in the center of the circle, has several drummers, who add without cessa- 
tion, to the din. The high-priest now speaks to them of this, the holy 
dance, founded centuries ago, relating how powerful was the mcdicitu! of 
tlieir ancestors, and advising unbelievers not to s(M)ir at them or their 
medicine, as they have the power to thrust a claw or a stone through the 
body of aiiy one at will, causing instant death. To show them how strong 
his medicine is, he calls up one of his assistants, and i)ointing his medicine- 
bag at him, gives a puff with his lips, wIiereu[)on the assistant falls ap- 
parently senseless upon the ground. The high-priest i)rays the Great 
Si>irit to aid him, bowing to the north, south, east, and west, asks the 
assistance of the members in bringing their dead brother to life. All the 
instruments are ])ounded, accompanied by frantic gesticulations and so- 
norous grunts, the lifeless man gradually returning to consciousness, and 
spitting into his hand a mass of froth and blood, in which is a claw or a 
stone. The high-piiest now dances around the circle, showing his medi- 
cine-bag, and imitating the animal from which it is taken. Advancing 
rapidly towards one of the members, he holds his niediciue-bag to his 
moutli and blows over it towards the one selected, who, giving a yell, 
falls to the ground. The chief continues, and the "dead men" reviving, 
assist in shooting others, until theringis full of howling savages, dancing, 
yelling, and shooting each other. A signal is given, all congregate around 
the big drum, raising one foot, then the other, alternately, keeping time 
with a lateral swing of the body, the men chanting in a sepulchral tone, 
seeming to die out in the pit of their stomachs, and the women on the 
outside of the group, raising themselves on the ball of their feet, imi- 
tate the peculiar call of the female swan. The hoarse guttural sounds 
of the men, and the clear swau-liko notes of the women, the two blend- 
ing together, were very musical. During the ceremonies the assistants 
of the high-priest, in performing their oftice and upon their instruments, 
trot around the ring faster and faster, grunting at each step, form into 
line in front of those selected, advance and retreat several times, then 
rushing forward, thrust their instruments into the hands of their suc- 
cessors, take the seats just vacated, and now represent the gods of the 
north, south, east, and the west, the high-priest rei^resen ting the ^Vau-kan 
Tan-ka or Great Spirit. When a candidate is initiated he is first taken 
into the council-tent for instructions, which are secret, stripped of his 
clothing, excepting an apron or cloth and moccasins, painted black 
from head to foot, a red spot about the size of a nickel painted between 
his shoulders. The candidate is exhorted to remain good, and his medi- 
cine will be strong, and that he must give a feast once a year; if not, he 
will be unfortunate, and meet with sickness and death; if good, the 
Great Spirit will make his heart strong. The candidate now receives 
the holy claw or stone; the high-priest approaching from the east with 



248 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

liis medicine-bag: describes the course of the sun, bowing to the four 
quarters, says to the candidate, "Now prepare yourself, I am g'oinfj to 
transfer to you what I have in my medicine-bag," and thrusting his 
bag torward the candidate, says, "There goes the spirit." At these 
words the candidate, kneeling on a blanket, falls upon the ground. 
All those that wish now come forward and, as oflerings, throw over the 
prostrate figure robes, blankets, skins, and ornaments. By the power of 
the high-priest the candidate recovers, as described before, is presented 
with a medicine-bag, and is a recognized member of the order. He 
nuist attend the three following meetings in the same costume, painted 
black, after which he appears as he may wish, Women are members 
of this order. Dead Indians, men and women, are initiated into this 
order, through the same jierformance over a lock of hair of the deceased, 
wrapi)cd in skin or cloth, laid upon the ground, with robes, blankets, etc., 
piled as an offering upon it, and afterwards distributed among the mem- 
bers. They say the spirit by this initiation is set on the right road, 
straight to his or her destination. After the ceremonies the soldiers 
distribute the food, and the feast commences, constituting the primripal 
attraction to the multitude. The dance, commencing at daylight, lasts 
until daylight the following morning, and as these dances are given, 
even in mid-winter, many degrees below zero, one can readily imagine 
the agony the candidates must undergo, clotheii only in a coat of paint. 
It is generally supposed that the members of the order have secrets 
and signs, but the penalty is so sure and swift that no exposures have 
ever been made. Well-known instances have occurred, where indiscre- 
tion of members have been punished by their mysterious disappear- 
ance, attributed to the medicine men. 

Fa <jimlhina-la- \Va-ci-2ri. — The circling crow dance, also called the 
straw or grass dance, is controlled by three men, the most influential of 
the tribe, who wear a peculiar insignia, a tunic of crow and eagle feath- 
ers attached to a belt ornamented with beads and quills; over the small 
of the back project two sticks several inches long; at the ends are jin- 
gling bells, every motion of the wearer causing the sticks to vibrate and 
the bells to jingle. These tunics are held sacred, and no profane hand 
allowed to touch them. The next officers of the order are the four 
drummers, each provided with a baton of office, a stick wrapped with 
porcupine (inills and strings of beads, the four sticks being used to sus- 
pend the drum, and a large wash-tub or cheese-box, covered with skin, 
the sides draped with fine cloth, ornamented with feathers, beads, and 
quills. The duties of the drummers are to strike the drum with full 
force and to keep up an incessant singing. Stewards are api)ointed to 
collect provisions, which are rarely refused. When sufficient is collected 
to last several days the three leading men are notified, who, calling the 
lodge, make arrangements for the dance. The crier then goes through 
the camp announcing when and where the dance will be held. 

The three chiefs appear in their feathered tunics and the uietubers 



CUSTOM8 OF THE DAKOTAS. 249 

ill their most brilliant i)aint. Seating' themselves upon the ground, 
wrapped in their blankets up to the eyes, the drummers o[)en the ball, 
the dancers throw their blankets aside, ands])rin.<;ing to their feet brand- 
ish their tomahawks or knives with violent gestures an<I an occasional 
whoop, chant and dance Inr a few moments, resume their blankets and 
their seats, leaving one in the ring, who, tieniely gesturing, and wildly 
waving tomahawk or knife, will brag- unmercifully over some exploit in 
war or chase; again all jump up, dance, and yell. A repetition of the 
same performances is gone through with again and again for several 
days or until the provisions are consumed. They will imitate animals, 
taking raw meat or a lish, snarl, growl, and snap over it, tearing it with 
their teeth like the wild beast they arc so well imitating. All questions 
are tirst discussed by the head-men in council, pro and con, and are 
then put to vote, the votes in the allirmati ve represented by a stone, those 
in the negative by a, i)iece of wood. No decision is arrived at until 
after many pow wowsj even then another lodge will be called in to par- 
ticipate. A (juestion of importance once decided, the head chief of the 
band will be called in, whether a meml)ei'of the lodge or not, and he must 
perform the mission they have intrusted him with, and as their intiuence 
is largely kei)t up through these orders the chiefs are glad of these com- 
missions. There are no sigiis or i)ass-words, and with the exception of 
the skuidc-skin garter, elaborately ornamented with beads, there is noth- 
ing to designate the members from the outside world. Though this 
order is of late date it is the nu)st powerful among the Indians. Dur- 
ing this dance, if a member wishes a divorce from one or more of his 
wives (they generally add one or two just before the dance for this pur. 
pose), he proclaims that he (naming himselC) throws away (naming her), 
and she is no longer his wife. An outsider, by payment, can deputize a 
member to act for him. No member will act as spokesnjau for any one 
not a member unless i)aid a retainer's fee, generally a gun or a horse ; 
the more influential gain fifty to one hundred horses during the year, 
but have to give away as many to retain their influence. 

There are no ceremonies of initiation ; they generally give a horse 
starting him off with a cut of the whip, for any one who chooses to 
catch him. The order is a charitable one. An old woman called on the 
order, stated her poverty; immediately the crier was sent around the 
camp, and in a few hours the members were all present, as they will 
drop any work or pleasure when called. The leader stated the cause 
of the meeting; the result was flour and pork, thirteen blankets, calico, 
line cloth, and skins. Another instance : An Indian, wishing to build a 
house, invited the order to a feast; as he was not a member, one stated 
his wants. After the feast the building' was soon completed. Though a 
charitable and social society, it is one very much feared ; and there ex- 
ist lodges among all the different tribes and bands throughout the 
great Northwest. 



250 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

Hi icangag Waci-iri. — The sun dance. — The Sioiix are siipeistitious, 
and liim believers in dreams, signs, and omens. Tljis dance is given to 
avoid siekness or any misfortune that may have been foretold by a 
dream, sign, or omen, it is a self-inflicted punishment the Indian under- 
goes to proi)itiate the Great S]>irit. 

A. circle is formed of green branches stuck into the ground; in the 
center, forming a triangle, are planted three poles or saplings, one much 
longer than the other two, the trunks cleared of branches excepting a 
tuft at the tops, a piece of white calico is fastened on one and a piece of 
red cloth on the other, both burnt after the dance, as they are then con 
sidered sacred. To each of the ])oles is fastened a stout thong, as high 
as a man's head from the ground. The dancer takes his place in the 
center of the triangle, and making incisions through the llesh on shoul- 
ders and breast, ties the ends of thongs through the incisions, and places 
between his lips a small quill Avhistle through which he breathes, at each 
res[)iration giving a shrill whistle, lie is clothed only in a shawl tied 
around his waist falling to his knees, his body painted black, hair loose 
and hanging upon his shoulders, and with rings of white rabbit-skins 
tied in his flesh on shoulders and legs. As the sun siid^s below the 
horizon this dance of torture is commenced by a slow sidewise motion 
of the body, as each foot is raised and lowered, their eyes following the 
course of the sun as it revolves around the earth, and as it rises above 
the horizon their eyes are kept fastened upon it. This is kept up until 
sunset, if the dancer has not succumbed through weakness before this- 
he tugs and strains in his efforts to pull the thongs through the flesh, 
and finally falling with his w^hole weight tears the thongs through, gen- 
erally rendering himself insensible. 

The dance, as its name indicates, is in honor of the sun (typical of the 
Great Spirit), and the great object is to keep their gaze upon it, the ob- 
ject of their adoration, or cease to follow its course, whether beneath 
or above them, in whose honor they are suffering these tortures. The 
drunmiers and a regular band of singers keep up a chant of " The 
Great Spirit keep us." In dancing, the arms to the elbows are held 
l)ressed to their sides and from elbows straight out to the front, hands 
clinched, the feet raised alternately from the ground, the bod^' moving 
from side to side and backward and forward, stretching the gashes to 
their fullest extenf. To see one undergoing this fearful torture called 
dancing, naked, i)ainted black, hair streaming, blood trickling from 
their gashes, the shrill whistle at each breath, the hoarse gutteral sing- 
ing, the dull thud of the drum, is a dreadful sight indeed. 

Iwa-hici-pi. — The seaJp dance. — This dance follows the bringing home 
of scalps. A circle is formed, on one side stand the warriors, their 
bodies painted red, the feathers in their head-dress denoting the num- 
ber of scal[)s taken, tomahawks, knives, and guns, in their hands; on 
the other side stand the young women in their best attire, carrying the 
scalps stretched on hoops and dangling at the ends of long i)oles. The 



CUSTOAIS OF THE DAKOTAS. 251 

ninsi(;ians, (Irummer.s, juul singers, scjimt upon tlie ;;ioun(l near by. 
The men eoniinencc the war song, sometimes forniin.^- a- circle, diince 
around the women holdiuj^' the scalps, who join in the refrain, as it were, 
I hen again forming in two lines lacing each other, all dance forwards 
and backwards. If tiie scalps luive been captured during the winter 
the dance is kept up at intcvvals until the leaves grow in the spring. 
If taken in the summer, they dance and rejoice over them until the 
leaves fall oft". Painted red four times, then they are buried. Each 
time the scalps are painted the warriors are expected to give away 
their blankets and their clothes, as their hearts are strong. 

Cc-ldti-in. — The riryins^ lodge. — This feast or ceremony is only |»artic- 
ipated in by those who are virgins. If rei)orts are circulated in ilu; 
camp derogatory the girl immediately gets up a " Virgins' Lodge." An 
old man is selected, who arranges the tipi or lodge, in which the feast is 
to take place, by smoothing the ground two or three yards in diameter 
in the center of the lodge. In the middle of the cleared space is placed a 
round stone, near it a knife is planted, blade up. The crier goes through 
the camp, specifying where and when the feast will be held. When all 
are assembled the girl enters, places her hand on the point of the knife 
blade, typical of the god of war, that he may pierce her througli with 
this sharp blade if she is not pure; then on the stone, typical of the 
god of the mountains, that he may crush her; then placing her head 
against the earth, typical of the god of the earth, that he may o[)en the 
earth and ingulf her if she is not truthful ; she then takes lier seat, her 
accuser is brought forward and goes through the same ceremony, ami 
then openly accuses her ; if his accusation is not substantiated, he is led 
from the lodge amid the jeers and laughter of the spectators. After 
the trial the feast commences, and the girl goes forth with unblemished 
character. This feast excites a beneficial effect morally upon the In- 
dian women, and serves to make an extremely immoral nation very cir- 
cumspect in their actions. 

The Dakotas have several ceremonies of adulation or praise. 

A-do-ican, to sing in praise of the Great Spirit, as the Dakotas do be- 
fore going into battle, or upon a raid into the enemy's country, that he 
may render the hearts of the enemy weak, so they may be killed and 
their scalps captured without danger to themselves. 

Wi-cas-ta a-do-ican. — (To sing the praises of a man.) — The singer, tak- 
ing the heads of several wood[)eckers, goes to the lodge or tipi of some 
particular individual, will sing over these heads in his praise, reciting 
his deeds in war and at the council fire, or ex[)loits of the chase, re- 
ceiving in return a valuable present. 

Ado-wan. — The pipe or praise dance. — Two persons, the singer and 
dancer, go to a mourning lodge, and taking the bundle of cloth in which 
the hair or the medicine of the deceased is kept, hang it on four 
sticks driven into the ground. Tiic singer then takes the pipe, the stem 
elaborately decorated with feathers, beads, and quills, invites the spec- 



252 PAPERS KKLATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

tators to join witli him in liis song of praise to tlie spirit of tlio <le})arted, 
slowly waving the pipe over the buudle extols the virtues of the deceased. 
As the mourners are generally very liberal in their presents, the singers 
make a ])r()fitable business at these ado-wans. Tlie })ipe-stem is a pe- 
culiar one; a flat stem worked witli porcupine quills and beads, in the 
middle an eagle tail spread so each feather stands out by itself, and at- 
tached to the center of each feather are small bundles of horse-hair, 
wrapped with ribbons and (piills. Those who have seen the dance de- 
scribe it as being very graceful and beautiful. 

Yiimni waci i)i — The circle dance. — A social gathering where those of 
both sexes meet and dance around a pole planted in the ground. 

lliDiica ci-pi — Kight dance. — Many gather together, men and women, 
with drums and singers, hy moonlight, to dance and sing. Forming two 
lines (luite a distance apart, the men take up the refrain for a few 
words; then the women answer. As a rule the Indians are too super- 
stitious to leave their tipis after dark, so this dance is but rarely in- 
dulged in. The Dakotah can hardly be said to know anything about 
poetry, as the ho-ho-ho, ugh-ugh-ugh, or hi-hi-hi of their songs is only 
now and then interrupted by the enunciation of words. Their language 
is so tigurative that the meaning is generally the opposite to what the 
expressions used would naturally convey. 

ORNAMENTS. 

There are but fevr now in use with any meaning. The number of 
eagle feathers worn denote the number of enemies killed, the wing 
feathers of the bald-headed eagle denoting male, and the black-eagle 
feathers denoting women. If they scal[)ed the enemy, a broad red 
streak is painted across the feather ; if shot, a round red spot is painted 
upon it; if the person killed was of prominence or reputation, the feathers 
are dyed red. The above is also applied to the killing of a grizzly bear. 
Small sticks arrayed with porcupine quills are sometimes attached to 
the quill of the feather, and small pieces of white fur glued to the ends. 
Ko one will wear an eagle feather unless entitled to it, as they believe 
it will tly away from their heads if worn unlawfully. 

Many of the so-called civilized Indians still retain the custom of ar- 
ranging the 8cali)-lock. The scalp-lock proper is a ])erfectly round cir- 
cle on the center of the head where the hair grows ton [)oint. Around 
this lock they tie very lirndy a bead band an inch wide ; the hair is then 
braided, an otter skin twisted aiound it spirally, iorming a braid 2 and 
even 4 feet long; this is kept oiled and ni(;e for the enemy to cai)ture if 
they get a chaniie; tlu^ ])art is dyed vermilion, if an Indian has the 
tin)e and tiie person killed is of imi)ortance, they will take tlu'. entire 
scalp, including the eyebrows and ears. The scalps are stretched on 
lioops and dried; sometimes a picture will be i)ainted upon the skin 
representing the history of its ca^iture. The Indians have many orna 
ments; none, however, are of any particular signiticauce. It is not to 



CUSTOMS OF THE DAKOTAS. 253 

bo believiMl that the j;rizzly-bear claws worn as a necklace are marks 
of distinction ; bnt as they arc costly it is merely a matter of wealth and 
not a symbol of chieftainship. In former days it may have been so used, 
bnt not within the recolltction of those now livini;. 

RELIGION. 

The I)akot;ihs have many i;ods; their visible and invisible world is 
peo[»lod with spiritual beings, iidiabitinii' evcrythin<;- in nature; onse- 
queutly ubuost everything- is an object of worship), lie renders homage 
to the sun and moon, sacriticing as often to the bad as to the great or 
good spirit. His gods are of air, water, and of the prairies; tluir le- 
ligions ceremonies consist of dances. The god of the waters, Un kte-hi, 
a fabled monster of the deei>, ])robably a whale, the tradition hande<l 
down from tiieir ancestors who may have lived near the great waters. 
Wa-zi-ya, the ice god, or god of winter, he who a])i)roaches the haunts 
of men in winter and returns to the laml of ice in sumnuM-. Can-o le-dan, 
or forest god, as it is said to resend)le a. man; it may have been a 
monk'cy. lle-yo ka, god of the prairies, whose home is supi)osed to be 
in the little liills upon the prairies. lie wraps his ermine robes around 
him in summer and goes naked in winter. Wa-kin-yan, the god of 
thunder, a fabled giant who rides upon the clouds, whose thundering 
voice they hear. He causes the lightning Hashes l>y rubbing tv/o sticks 
together. 

MORTtTARY CUSTOMS. 

Upon the decease of a. member of a family the survivors alh/w their 
friends, relatives, and the mcMlicine men to take away tln^ best- they have 
of (nerythiiig. Their hair is allowed to grow uidcemi)t; they besmear 
their faces and bodies with earth, and wear old and ragged <;lotlies ; the 
women gash themselves with knives. The body is draped in the best 
of everything — robes, blankets, and line cloth — and phiced n})on a scaf- 
fold, until, in tln^ course of time, the bones fall to the ground; they are 
then taken and buried. The mourning is kept np one year, amidst diit 
and ragged garments ; then they wash themselves, put on clean clothes, 
and never mention the name or allude to the dead i^erson, and it is con- 
sidered a deadly insult that the name of the departed should be men- 
tioned in their presence. Immediately after a death they leave their 
homes and can not be induced to retnrn to them. They have been 
known to leave the corpse in the house for months, erecting a tent near 
by. In either case when the corpse is removed a new opening is made, 
through which it is carried. Gray Thunder, a noted Dakotah chief, died 
in 1874 — a man said to have been over 7 feet in height. The army sur- 
geon then stationed at Fort Totten, Dak., offered the widow quite a large 
sum of money for the corpse, in order to articulate the skeleton. The 
offer was refused. The widow had a stout box made at the agency, and 
every year up to 1877, in her migratory visits to the IMission River 



254 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

Ageucy, loaded ihc remains upon a suug-wa-kin-i-lmpa and carried it 
there and back twice a year, a distance of over 100 miles, for fear the 
skeleton should fall into the hands of the white doctor. 

SUNG-WA-KIN-I-IIU-rA. 

The apparatus for packing on a horse or dog. It is made by placing 
ihe ends of two long tent poles together at an angle of about 40 de- 
grees, the ends fastened together and placed on the back of horse or 
dog, the other dragging upon the ground; behind the horse's tail cross- 
pieces are tied, on which loads are packed. The Sissi ton wans and the 
llianktonwans of the prairies train large dogs for the ])urpose. 

I- GUS-KA (UNTYING THE BUNDLE). 

This is a Dakolali custom. A l)uudle of tobacco is sent to seal the 
bond of friendshi)) between bands or vilhigcs ; if it is untied, blankets, 
guns, kettles, and articU's of finery are sent in return. Jf th(>.y have 
notliing to give or refuse to accept the overtures of i)eace the bundle is 
returned untied. 

i-zu-YA-n. 

Harried l>y the Dakotahs when going lo war, as tlie palladium of the 
Jionians. Sometimes it is a i)ii)e, sometiuus the skin of an animal. 

DAKOTAIl MENIT. 

Pemmican, the ilesh of ox, buffalo, deer, or other wild meat, cut in 
long tliiu strips, and dried in tlu^ sun, "jerked ;'' as sooji as cured it is 
l)ca.ten ])y the s(|uaws with stones until in shicds, collected and placed 
in skin bags; then bones are i)0unded and the manow extracted, melted, 
and ])oured into the bags with the shredded meat, to which has been 
added quantities of hau-tas-ka, a small red berry, very aromatic and in- 
digenous to the ])raries. Pemmican is used on long marches or jour- 
neys, as it is compact, and a small quantity serves for many meals. 
There are many wealthy white people of Minnesota who are regularly 
sui)plied with i)emmican for home consumption, as when properly made 
it is not unlike^j^Jff' dcfoie gras. Accomi)anied by a dish of wild rice from 
the rice lakes of Minnesota, it is a repast so toothsome that even those 
without Jin appetite can enjoy. Throughout Minnesota are many shal- 
low lakes, from which (piantities of wild rice are gathered by the Indians, 
until it has become a business with many of" them ; it is in fact supe- 
rior to cultivated rice. Tipsinna, wild turnip, is nature's most precious 
gift to the Indians, who in the fall of the year desert their villages and 
roam the prairies turnip hunting ; it is no unusual sight to see the hill- 
sides of the rolling prairies dotted with men, women, and children, each 
with a long heavy pole, sharpened at one end, digging turnips. They 
are agreeable in taste, raw or dried; the Dakotahs dry them for win- 



CUSTOMS OF THE DAKOTAS. 255 

tei's use. It is a bulbous root, firowiu^' deep in the ground, and \ ery nu- 
tritious; raw aud dried it ibruis the principal item in the Dakotah ineuu. 
Some years ago ex[)eriiuents were nnide by French savants, and it was 
found that a nutritious substitute for wheat Hour could be made from 
the dried turnips. The following bulbous esculent roots are also eateu : 
a-.sin-iKc, growing in the marshes, about the size of a walnut; pun-cin- 
na, about the size of hens' eggs, grows on the margins of lakes and 
rivers; ni-do, iu taste resembles a sweet potato; hu-ba, a large water 
grass, the stalks of which are eaten ; ou-mui-ca, beans growing wild iu 
the \alleys aud low lands, having a vine-like top the pod growing at 
the roots being dug up iu spring and fall of the year ; wild hop-vine, 
as it sprouts from the ground, the fac-simile of the asparagus, but 
superior iu delicacy and flavor, aud it is uo uncommon sight on the 
frontier to see officers of the Army (who are generally epicurean iu their 
tastes) digging wild hop sprouts for their own table; ta-to (Anglice 
evidently), a root with a long- branching stalk, dried for winter use; 
ce-he-ca, a small root the size of a hazel-nut, collected by the ground- 
squirrels and prairie-mice, aiid deposited in large quantities in their sub- 
terranean homes. In the fall the Dakotahs collect from these sui^plies 
for their winter's use. The taste is rather agreeable, resembling- some- 
what that of a green pea. Shuuka, or dog-, last but not least of the 
edibles that please the savage palate, can not be called a domestic dish ; 
it is not eaten, except in cases of dire necessity, as it is considered too 
delicate for ordinary consumption; buc is usually eaten at a s]>ecial 
fea.st iu hoiu)r of warriors of renown, to whom, as the highest mark of 
courtesy, the head is given. All the birds of the air, exce{)ting- the 
eagle and the turkey, are eaten by the Dakotahs, and all the beasts of 
the earth, an<l all the denizens of the water. Capable of containing 
quantities that would surfeit several white men, the Dakotah will in 
days of scarcity tighten his belt in order to prevent a vacuum, and go 
on his way uncomplaiuiug. 

MARRIAGE CEREMONIES. 

As soon as the young couple have concluded to cast their lot in common 
aud are engaged, the young man calls his brothers, sisters, uncles, aunts, 
aud cousins together, aud tells them that it is his desire to take such 
and such a one for his wife. After eating the repast spread before 
them they separate for their res})e(;tive lodges. The following day as 
many as wish return, each bringing some object as a present— a gun, 
horse, blanket, anything they may have, and of the best (a bridle rej)- 
resents a horse, and is redeemed on demaiul). All these things they 
make into a bundle, carried by the mother of the young man u[)on her 
back, who lays it in front of the lodge of the expectant bride and returns 
home. Now, the girl's mother or other meml)ei- of lier family l»rings 
the bundle into the lodge and prei)ai('s -.i feast, inviting all the relatives 
of the 3"0uug girl, who, after parti(;ipating in the goo<l things spread 



256 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

out before, tliem, and leaniipo- the particulars of tlie case, discuss the 
character of the; young; brave, after coming to a couchisiou in favor of 
or against the approaching nuptials. If favorable they return next 
day with their bundle of presents. Then the bundle of the bridegroom 
elect is opened and the articles are distributed among the bride's family. 
They, in their turn, take the bundle brought by them, give it to the 
girl's mother, who takes it upon her back and the giil by the hand and 
dej)osits both at the door of the expectant husbaud. The groom's mother 
comes out, takes the girl and bundle into the lodge, where all the family 
are congregated, seated arouiul the fire, leaving the place of honor 
(opi)osite the entrance) vacant. In the center of this space is a dish 
with two spoons in it. The young man and girl sit one on each side, 
<at a few spoonfuls from the dish, and then pass the dish around. The 
bride's buiuUe is then opened and distributed among those present. 
This (lonstitutes one form of marriage among the Dakotahs. As will be 
seen, the i)arents have no voice in the matter, leaving it entirely to the 
brothers, etc. In making up the bundles those wishing to give a horse 
throw in a bridle, nmrked with their totem. This re])resents a horse, and 
is always redeemed. Often an old squaw will be seen trudging along, 
bent double, witli a sack on her back containing guns, swords, pistols, 
knives, blankets, beads, and articles too numerous to mention, bent on 
a matrimonial i)ilgrimage such as described above. 

In dillerent sections, even among the sanu^. tribe, they have otiier cere- 
monies: when they purchase their wives, by tyiug a horse at her par- 
ents' tloor; if, on returning the following day, they liud the horse still 
there, they will add another, keeping this up until their limit is reached; 
if the horses are taken away he will then enter the lodge ami take his 
bride home; if it requires more horses than he is willing to give he 
takes his horses away and tries elsewhere. Often when the relatives of 
the young girl refuse all overtures of the young man ho will, through 
a friend, entice the young girl into the woods, wliere, joining them, he 
runs off with her. This is also recognized as a marriage. The Da- 
kotah is a polygamist, having as many as five wives. The marital tie is 
not very binding, and divorces are not sought after in the courts; but 
in the straw dance they will " throw away" those wives they no longer 
wish to retain; in nuxny instances they will take "unto themselves" 
several wives in order to throw^ tbem away at this dance, believing 
it will add to their importance to have so strong a heart. When a 
young man throws away his wife he^becomes a "young man"again and 
seeks other wives. The wonmn is soon married again. The courting is 
always done in the evening and in the lodge. If the attentions of tho 
young jr.au are disagreeable to the young woman, she will get uj) and 
blow uj) the lire. The young man takes the hiut and retires. If, on the 
contraiT, she should be willing, she lets the lire alone. 

A husbaud will never sixmIc to his wife's mother or father, and if it 
should be an absolute necessity it is done through a. third person- the 



CUSTOMS OF THE DAKOTAS. 257 

sniiio with tlie bride, and tlicii<;li aU may bo living in tlie isanie lodj^e 
they ne\'er s}.ieak except in cases of absokite necessity, and then only 
through a third party. When the husl)and meets his wives' parents in 
the woods he turns his head aside and passes by witliout noticing them. 
When a child is sick the father will take the cliild's name, believing 
it will cause Dthers of the family to die if the name should die. The 
grandparents as a rule take care of the children and are called father 
and mother. TTncles and aunts are always addressed as father and 
mother. 

H. Mis. 170 17 



ATNATANAS ; NATIVES OF COPrEU IMVETJ, ALASKA. 

By Liont. IIexiiy T. Allex, TJ. 8. Army. 

Upon examination of the natives of Coi)per liiver it i.s fonnd tliat they 
are as a rule between 5 feet G and 5 feet S inches liigii, tliongh occa- 
sionally a man iiilly G feet is seen, and weigh about 140 pounds; that 
the color of their skin is a brown, tinged with copper, and much darker 
than that of their nearest coast neighbors ; that their hair is generally 
straight, exceptionally wavy, and that their eyes are invariably black, 
or nearl}^ so. A great difference in mobility of countenance was noticed, 
the faces of some being nearly as capable of indicating emotions as 
those of civilized people, whilst those of others are almost entirely de- 
void of expression under any circumstances. 

Their muscular strength is not so remarkable as their ability to travel 
great distances in a short time on scanty rations. Ample opportunity 
was given for measuring their strength and endurance with those of 
our party. The result of the first day's work was favorable to them, 
but ever afterwards to us. It is true, however, that our party was 
selected with special view to physical strength. 

It is an unusual occurrence to see a, father and mother with more th:in 
three children. AVhether this small size of family be due to the hard- 
ships incident to the gaining of a livelihood or to malpractice in some 
of its forms, lam unable to say. It is a fact that with them, too, i)overty 
may be blessed with children. I will instance, that one of the most des- 
titute families I met consisted of father, mother, and four cliildren, 
some of whom were sadly emaciated by hunger. The nature of their 
food causes so much wearing of the teeth that children are found with 
the first set worn almost to the gums. Sometimes in the case of adults 
the teeth are worn to the gums while the body is yet in its prime. 

The faces show the result of subjection to hardships long before the 
hair begins to turn gray. Owing to their ignorance of methods of com- 
puting time, the ages could not be determined with any degree of defl- 
niteness. Messala, however, who lives on left bank of (!opper, one day's 
march from Taral, and, presumably, led the party of Massaon against 
the Ilnssiank; in 1848, must then have been a man of mature years. 

The only sickness noticed among them other than result of hunger 
was due to costiveness, which doubtless disappears during the run of 
s:iliiion. P>ut one natural deformity — a shriveled leg — was seen, though 
the toes of nearly all are almormally crooked from snow-shoe travel. 

Their sagacity in following trails and hunting game is probably not 
258 



ATNATANAS, OF ALASKA. 250 

greater than tliat of others of tlie Tiinieh family, but would astonish 
one uot accustomed to the skill of natives in this respect. 

All the peoj)le of Copper liiver region were called by the linssians 
Meduraskies (more properly Mednevtsi) and all, excei)ting" those at the 
mouth, belong to the great Tinneh family which peoi)les the interior of 
Alaska. Tiiose below the Tezlina Eiver, from their association with 
fvussians, have adopted some abbreviated form of the same, such as 
Minisky, j\Iuo(')sky, etc., whilst those above style themselves Tatlatans. 
I think the name Atnatana, the Indian name for an inhabitant of Atna 
((.'o])])ei) Ifivtu- region, would be a fitting term for the people of both 
tribes, which differ vei'y little from each other. To })articnlarize, how- 
ever, I hav(; used the term iMiduoosliy for the i)eople south of the Tezlina, 
including those living on the Ohittyna, and Tatlatan for those living 
north of the Tezlina and south of the Alaskan Mountains. 

The entire number of natives on the riviu' and its tributaries is about 
300, divided as follows: Men, 128; Avomen, 1)8; children, 110. 

Between Alagauik and Woods Canon, a distance of 110 mih\s, there 
are no settlements, yet an occasional party goes down to Bremner llivci- 
to hunt moose. On the Chittyna and its tributaries are about thirty 
souls; on the headwaters of Tezliua and Lake Plavcznie, probably 
twenty. The Tatlatans, including the settlemeiit at Lake Huslata, num • 
ber 117. On the Copper, between Taral and the Tezlina, are 209, the 
total number of Midnooskies. 

Nicotai is autocrat of the Chittyna and the fishing rendezvous Taral, 
whilst between the latter ])lace and the Tezlina- this privilege is held 
by Lisbigstag and Coueguanta, the former controlling the lower part, 
the latter, with the largest following of any Atnatana, the ui)per. The 
chief native among the Tatlatans is Jjabzulne^a, who is a shaman. 

As far as I am able to judge from the scanty records ot the L'ussians 
and my own observations, I should say that the change in number of 
these people has been very slight for many years. Their history, so far 
as their records are concerned, will always be a sealed book. On both 
banks of the river between Chittyna and the Klawahsina liiver, more 
especially on the Uift bank, are frecpient excavations 2 to 4 feet deep, 
indicating the sites of houses. The more recent of these show signs of 
the attached bathhouses. In some older excavations spruces of largest 
size are growing. 

The territory of the Atnatanas is included between the one hundred 
and forty-second and one hundred and forty-seventh meridians and be- 
tween the sixty atnlhalt and sixty-third i)arallels, representing an ai>- 
l^roximate area of 2."), 000 square miles, all of which is drainiMl l)y the 
(!opperand its tributaries. Practically excluded from the i est of the 
world, it is but natural that they should be a conservative ])cople. Willi 
mountains on all sides, their I'outes of travel are chielly confined to the 
water courses winter and sumnicr. Were it ])ra(;ticablc to pass*iroui 
Taral to the ui)per waters of the (Jopjjer by going nearly due north, 



"200 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

oiie-Lalf the diKstaiice over tlie river route, which is and must be fol- 
lowed, would be avoided. Eetweeu these localities are some of the 
highest mouiitaius of the northern continent, and certainly the highest 
volcano (Wrangell); below are huge glaciers {Mileo and Child's), which 
hem in the river, rendering navigation extremely' dangerous. Besides 
these geograi)hical considerations, the climate, which is practically 
seven montlis severe, affects in a large measure the customs of the 
l)eoj)le. 

Their vegetable products are limited in variety and scanty in quan- 
tity. Besides the berries, including cranberries, blueberries, a small 
red berry (called by them (jmess), a small blackberry (called by them 
f/i.z)ieh), quite similar to the red one, is a fruit called tdmhd, that grows 
on a bush several feet high. It hangs on the bushes all the winter, 
and may be eaten in the spring, even to summer, when it is very dry 
and nearly tasteless. The sha])e and nature of the fruit is very similar 
to the black haw, though it is of a yellowish-white color. The natives 
fiy it in moose or other fat, at the same time mashing it well with a 
stick or spoon, thus making of it a jialatable dish. Their chief vege- 
table food, however, is a peculiar parsnip-shaped root, but longer, wlii(ih 
they call chass. The portion of it above ground ispiot more than ('» to 
lli inches high and not uidike a bunch of small willows, while the root 
is frequently several feet long. It is never cured, but is eaten raw, 
boiled, or roasted, and especially during the spring. 

Fish, rabbit, moose, sheep, caribou, bear, goat, porcupine, beaver, 
lynx, muskrat, goose, duck, and grouse constitute the mass of their food. 
Of these fish is decidedly the most important, with rabbits next in order. 
They have no process of curing save that by drying in the sun. The 
fat of the moose is nielted and run into the guts, while the blood is saved 
in the i^aunch. It is of little importance to them wliether or not their 
meat be cooked, and in boiling it is seldom allowed to become done 
through. The entire entrails of rabbits are boiled sometimes with the 
bodies from which they were taken, and again with other meat; and form 
one of thcmost potent antiscorbutics used by them. Good or special 
food is always cooked by the men and the refuse of all is given to the 
women. A boy five or six years old has precedence at meals over his 
mother. There seems to be almost no limit to the amount of food a 
liungry native can consume, A single kind of food must be abundant 
to furnish in sutticient quantities the necessary elements required by 
the system. A much less quantity of mixed food satisfies. Like most 
other Indians, they seem to eat when hungry, without regard to fixed 
intervals. 

The only drink that I saw used by them, excepting tea, of which they 
are passionately fond, and tlie li(]uois in which the food is boiled, was 
from thei)lant lamkill, used by nearly all the Tinneh of Alaska and by 
the inhabitants of the lIn<lson I'.ay country and Labrador. No special 
preparation of this is recpiired, not even drying being necessary before 
using. 



ATNATANAH, OF ALASKxV. 261 

Jf tliey possess any iiiediciiial incparatioiis or mcdiciiu's of any dc- 
serii>tion they arc in tlic hands ollho shamans, who Ivccp them earclully 
conceaU^l. Their eonlael. with the, lliissians and Americans, thon<,^h 
very slight, lias tan^iit them the benefits of more eivili/ed medicine, 
and they will take any dose <;iven tliem by a white man. 

The honsesof the Atiiataiiasareof two kinds, viz, permanent and tem- 
poiary. The former are iideuded for winter use and are annually occu- 
pied during- that season, ^Yhile the latter are extemi)orize<l at any place 
where game may be found. In plan it is about bS feet stpiare, is built 
of spruce poles and slabs in a loose style, and is covered in with spruce 
bark. In some places moss is used to help to uuiki', it close. The walks 
under the eaves are nearly 4 feet high, and about o feet from the- ground 
around the inside is builta shelf 4 oro feet wide, which serves thedouble 
purpose of a seat during the day, and ai bed at night, the space under 
this being boxed in with vertical slal)s and used as a storeroom and 
sleeping' apartments for women, children, and i)ui)s. The roof is i)ro- 
vided with a large hole in the middle, toi)ermit the escape of smoke from 
the open lire on the lloor. The entrance is through a small " storm- 
.shed," about li by 3 feet, protected at the outer end by an undressed 
sheep or goat skin. Opposite this, at the other end, near the lloor, is a 
round hole about 15 inches in diameter, which is the eutran(;e to the 
sleei)ing room and bath-house. This is 10 or lli feet scjuare, 4 or 5 feet 
in height, neai'ly all of which is uiulerground, and is lighted by a small 
a perture, over which the intestines of the bear are stretched. The sweat- 
bath is so highly prized thatevery permanent house of the ^lidnooskies 
and most ot those of the Tatlatans are su[)plied with the necessary room, 
the heating of which is quite sim])le. A large pile of stones i)laced on a. 
close frame of logs in the nuiiii room, alter the juanuer of un old-fash- 
ioned limekiln, are heated, then trauslerred to the sweat-room by means 
of two sticks used as tongs. The circular aperture is closed with a kind of 
tompion, and water istheii poured on until the necessary amouutofheatecl 
va])or is obtained. The ideaof building this adjunct to the houses came 
through contact with the liussians, with whom it is a religious as well 
as a hygienic measure, and is ])racticed as far north as the Alaskan 
lange. J5eyond this it is not seen until the Lower Vukon is i-eached. 
The temporary or hunting house, always built of poles and boughs of 
spruce, cottouwood, etc., is rectangular in plan, w ith a passage-way 
through the center. Twosides oidy are used, and in consefpience the ends 
and upper part are scantily covered. A log placed on the lire extends 
sometimes several feet beyond each end. A moose or caribou skin, in 
lieu of cotton cloth used by their more civilized brethren, is o(!casional!y 
used to help make it water-proof directly over the sleeping places. Tents 
are not as yet part of their possessions, nor is metal of any kind em- 
ployed in assembling the different parts of the houses, willow withes 
aud rawhide thongs answering their present requirements for this pur- 
pose, lu general the winter house, being on the river, may be said to 



262 PAPERS JJELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

be ()ectii)ie(l (hiiiii'^- the salmon season, and until Febi nary, when the 
o(;eupants (le[)art lor the headwaters of streams, where they hunt and 
trap, occupying the summer houses. 

Never have I seen Indians mere devoid of luxuries than are the 
Atnatanas. The wealthiest eouut only the following vessels and uten- 
sils in their subsistence department: One to three large kettles, one 
tea-kettle, one frying-pan, several wooden trays (native), several knives 
(generally home manufacture), liorn spoons, and two or three cups. In 
but one place did I see any pretense of furniture, and that was a pecul- 
iar-made box to put the tea-cups on. The average head of a family dis. 
penses with all the above save one kettle, one" or two Avooden trays, a 
knife or two, and possibly a small cup, which he invariably carries whilst 
traveling. 1 ibund no vessels for boiling or holding water that had 
been used [)rior to the introduction of modern ones. 

Their clothing consists ordinarily of two garments, trousers and boots 
forming one, coat or i)arkee the other. In the winter this is sometimes 
supplemented by a shirt made of rabbit skin. The coat is usually 
without a hood attachment, dilfering in this respect from that ol' the 
l*lskimos, the headdress being made from marmot or squirrel skins. The 
l)rincipal decoration of the wearing apparel is of beads, of which those 
one-eighth to one-(iuarter of an inch in diameter are especially chosen. 
Very seldom are porcupine quills utilized for orimmentation. 

The men have both ears and nose pierced, the women the former only. 
In the nose, rings made of shell or metal are worn, some of which are 
one and one-half inches in diameter. Sinew suspends the ear ornaments, 
which arc made of elongated beads. To be thoroughly en regie a little 
red paint must be applied to the face. This applies more particularly 
to the women and children than to the men. The beaded knife scab- 
bard attached to the neck is considered indispensable to the Avell- 
ecpiipped Atnat<^na, who does not take it off day or night. In addition 
to this, the tyones and wealthy inen wear a beaded ammunition pouch. 
Bracelets and fmger-rings, likewise tattooing, are almost unknown to 
them. Combs made of the hoofs of the moose are owned by some, 
while many keep the hair in condition by dexterous use of the hands. 
They are very fastidious with i-espect to the hair, which, be it said to 
their credit, nearly always appears neat, a shaman's excepted. That 
of the women and shamans is worn long, while many of the men in 
early summer cut it straight around at the height of the miihlle of the 
neck. 

The unit of measurement with them is the distance between the tips 
of the hngers, the arms horizontally outstretched. I have frequently 
seen them measuring timber for a I)aid;irra or the length of rope or 
thongs with thi's unit. 

Beads and ammunition are the mediums of exchange used by the in- 
termediate men in obtaining the furs that are carried to the trading 
station. Nicolai leaves at his house on the Chittystone Iliver, during 



ATNATANAS, OF ALASKA. 263 

liis iibst'iicc at Tiiiul, beads, caps, and pow<ier lor the Caleliariiies,* who 
arrive and deposit an equivalent in furs, — a fact tending- to show how 
definite is the rehition between articles of commodity and prices paid 
for them, and also the mutual contideuce amongst themselves. 

Their bows and arrows are quite similar to those formerly much used 
by the Yukon natives, tliongh perhai)s they are a little better hnished. 
Tiie material for both is birch, which is subjected to a [X'culiar process 
of seasoning which might be called tem[)ering. A rougli slab about 5 
feet long is blocked out of green birch with the small ax in possession 
of nearly all; then the knife is used to bring it down to <limensio!is iu)t 
exceeding an inch or an inch and one-half in cross section. This rod is 
alternately put in the tire for a few seconds, and then worked awhile 
with the knife until it has nearly attained its tinal dimensions, when it 
is placed where the smoke can envelop it. It may remain at this stage 
of the process several weeks, being again subjected to the hre and the 
knife. When finally tempered a bow one inch by one-half inch in cross- 
section requires a strong arm to string it. I have seen splendid ramrods 
made of very crooked timber in the same manner. 

l>ows and arrows are yet largely used by them, though they are rapidly 
superseded by the small-bore double-bairel nuizzle-loading shotguns, 
of which there are two grades, one very inferior, the other good, with 
laminated steel barrels. iSTeither of them exceed five or six pounds in 
weight. They tire out of these guns pebbles and bullets of lead or coj)- 
per. The copper bullets are claimed by them to be sui)erior to the lead 
ones for large game, such as moose and bear, for the reason, they say, 
that the copper ones will always break the bones while the lead ones 
will not. The copi)er bullets in use on the Chittyna Kiver are formed 
by hammering. 

Judging from the weapons owned by these natives and from their 
docile and mirthful characteristics, I should not cojisider them a spe- 
cially warlike people. t 

In building their houses the only implements used, besides the ax 
and knife, is an adze, made by securing to an elbowed stick, with raw- 
hide strings, a Hat piece of iron, tempered by themselves. 

They are by no means of an inventive turn, many of them obtaining 
their snow-shoes from the Calcharnies; nevertheless they make their 
toboggans and sleds, which possess the valuable qualities of lightness 
and durability. 

As before stated, their routes of travel are chietly on or near w^ater- 
courses. When a long journc}" down the river is contemplated or a trip 
lo IS'uchek is decided upon, a skin boat is built, but if the distance be 
short a raft, made of four logs fastened with willow withes, is constructed. 

*Tlie term Calcliarmj, or Ivolshina, is of Russian origin, and is applied by tbe Mid- 
nooskies to all people not belonging to their tribe. 

t Since writing this the only white man nearer than Kodiak, Mr. Holt, the trader 
at Nnchek Island, has been murdered by them. 



264 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

luiisceiidiuy: the river with a boat only one method can be used, that 
ot "cordelhug-." A party of Tathitaiis were passed above the Chit- 
sletcliia, en route to Tani!, in a baidarra for the fishing- season. The 
skins of their boat were to l)e dressed at the destination and made into 
clothing-, and the return tri]) was not contemplated unlil tlie ice had 
formed on the river, tlius enabling them to sledge back. There is a 
trail along the river from Taral to the mouth of 8tana River, tliough not 
always on the same bank of it, and in some cases 15 or 3 miles from the 
river. 

To every member of a family belongs on an average tliree dogs, whicli 
are used for hunting moose and bear and other game, and for carrying- 
packs. They are a source of great annoyance in tlie vicinity of rabbit 
snares, unless kept at the house — usually by shoving- one or both front 
feet through a string tied around the neck. As pack animals they are 
exceedingly valuable to people situated as their masters are. They do 
not average more than 18 to 20 inches in height, yet they can carry for 
short distances 20 to 33 pounds, and day after day 25 pounds. 1 can 
heartily recommend a pack train of these animals for journeys where 
the greatest transporting- power consuming the least quantity of food is 
desirable. These dogs are never harnessed to the sleds, which the 
natives haul and push, but transport their burdens directly on tho 
back. The men very seldom carry jiacks other than their arms and 
bedding, the work of transportation being assigned to the women, who 
pack themselves and manage the pack train of dogs. Canoe transporta- 
tion in none of its forms is attempted on the Copper or any of its tribu- 
taries, nor is it probable that it ever will be, owing to the remarkably 
rapid current produced by the unusual fall in the river of 3,100 feet in 
330 miles. 

The chief amusement of these people other than eating, and the one 
they always resort to when hunger is satisfied, is singing. Unassisted 
by any musical instrument, not even anj' form of the tumtum, nearly all 
join in the songs, usually led by the voung men and boys. 

These are numerous and varied in character, those intended for court- 
ship being much less exciting than the more epic ones. Singing is fre- 
quently indulged in whilst enjoying a meal, and all the bodies may be 
seen keeping- perfect time to it The children are taught to sing almost 
as soon as to talk. When dancing accompanies its violence is in direct 
proportion to the stress of voice. 

The spoken language is nmrkedly accented and seldom are more than 
three consecutive words uttered with the same intonation. Most dis- 
syllabic nouns and many adjectives are accented on the last syllable. 
The practice of delivering orations is as frequent amongst them as 
among the Sioux and Cheyennes. The following limited vocabulary 
may serve to give a faiiit idea of the nature of the language. The an- 
nexed numerals of the White Mountain Apaches, as obtained from Lieut. 
Y. B. Dugau, U. S. Army, who was ten months on the San Carlos Res- 
ervation, shows an astonishing- similarity to the same of the Atnatanas^ 



ATNATANAS^ OV ALASKA. 



2(35 



wliicli, I trust, may le;ul to a- more tlior()iii;li iii\ csliuatiou of tlic, iiiat- 
Icr.* On liirtlicr comparison of our respective; limited vocabularies a 
lew iiodUN iilmost identical in sound and meaniny,' were i'ound to exist. 



M;iii ]\t'ek. 

\\'()iiiaii Rckiii. 

CliiM SliiiiiikiXi. 

Dou,- Sklck;iy. 

Silver salnioii (,'<iiiall) .Sliikkiiy. 

KiiiH' salmuii (lari;!') Siikacliity. | 1 

Mooso 'I'i'ii;iyi;a. 

CariVioii lloimiii. 

8Ih'(^|> Tc'-Kiv. 

(ioat H'lai.' 

Wolf 'IVkaiit. 

Fox ." Nuk Icksy 

l^yiix No('>f('ay. 

Martin (Mioos;;!. 

IMack bear.... .NoIlaV. 

[{rowii . hear (ylialun . 

Kahhit Gak. 

Mariimt, (Miiioss. 

Siiiootli ground NeiU. 

Mountains Tiollai. 

Wood {'hit/. 

Iio 'I'iii. 

Lake Hill. 

Water To. 

liivcr Na. 

Sun IS'iai. 

Food Ivucliin 



lIoiis(i lI()on;iI\. 

Sweat houHo Sayzill. 

(ilreasii Dalkak. 

To-day Tila.'^ii;. 

To-morrow Minta. 

Se. 

You Mill. 

None,, iiotliiui;', few T'kwully. 

l'''ar, a lonii,- di>s(aiice. Kooteshit. 

A lonj;' time Siyu. 

A .short distance CuttJest6e. 

( i ood \Va 1 1 ay . 

]>a(l Ivatiikwat. 

] ia j\i;<' Tray cha. 

Small 'I'nclKMie. 

Pl(Mitv 1... Kulaiii. 

Hot.."^ Hetay. 

Cold 

Tired Tazee. 

lliiii,u,ry Desehaiie. 

'I'o j;<> : J I ('ion a. 

To come Ahny. 

To .sleep Nastata. 

How many I)(')nnake(dan. 

(ilive me some water To niito. 

Mount Wranj^ell Keuuchilly. 



One... 
Two . 
Tliree 
Four 
Fiv(! . 
Six ... 
Sovcii 



Eislit 
Nine . 
Ten .. 



Midnoosky. 



Su.skai 

Navtaykv -. 
Ta-y...:... 

Dinky 

Alitzunny . . 

Kistau 

Konsarry . . . 
Klaliinky .. 
Zutlakwah) 
Lah/ci'iu . ... 



Apache. 



Duseblai. 

Nakee. 

Ta-v. 

DiufiT. 

Sehlai, 

Goostaii. 

Goosdlt V. 

Sayhee.' 

Goostiii. 

Goonezuiiu. 



Notwithstanding: the fact that women are decidedly in the minority 
amoug the Atnatiina, polygamy is practiced to a limited extent. How 
far they observe the haws of consanguinity in their marriages 1 do not 
know, but that an occasional Midnoosky marries a Tatlatan is a fact 
brought about, possibly, by that desire to avoid marriages of relations. 
The wives are treated with very little consideration and are valued in 
proportion to their ability to pack and do general work. They and their 
children are always left in destitute circumstances at the death of the 
husband, however wealthy he may have been. This arises from the 
custom of distributing among the tribe at his death the property, the 
accumulation of which seems to be a great pride, because the demou- 

* Since writing this I have learned from Dr. O. T. Ma.son, director of the ethno- 
lo(;ical department of the Smithsonian, that the relationship of the Tinneli family 
to the Southern Indians was discovei'cd by Prof. Turner many years since. 



2fi6 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

stiatiou at the obsequies will be in propoitiou to the weulih of the de- 
ceased. The oldest sou, however youug, becomes the head of the family 
at the death of the father. The treatment of adopted childreu is not 
ditlereut from that of the uatural heirs. Very small childreu are car- 
ried iu a kind of birch chair or cradle, the legs haugiug over, while older 
oues sit on the pack with a leg passiug ou each side of the motlier. 

The social organization seems to be divided into the following classes: 
Tyones, skillies (near relations of a tyone), shamans, or medicine men, 
and ^■assals of varying degrees of servitude. In all assemblies seats 
are rigidly assigned according to rank, which is well established among 
them. The tyones Avould rarely condesceiul to consider any of us their 
equals, nor did they fail to express disgust at seeing the head of our 
party carrying a i)ack or i)ulling on its rope. 

Among the Midnooskies the influence of the shamans is much less 
than with the Tatlatans, a fact due, I suppose, to contact with the Rus- 
sians. Nicolai, an influential chief, would not tolei'ate them, though he 
himself claimed to be able to perform wonderful cures ; certainly many 
natives far and near believed him. His i)ower is supposed to come from 
the church (Greek), of which he was an apostle. lie wears on his hat ai 
Greek cross as talisnuin, and has a small quantity of paper andpencil, 
with which he pretends to keep a record of all matters of importance to 
his people. It is not strange that with his unusually keen i)erceptive 
faculties he deceives his neighbors, as shown by the following at Khil- 
vats, about 350 miles from Taral: As we traveled was seen a native car- 
rying a highly valued brass cross and some hieroglyphics, both made by 
Nicolai, who doubtless had received a liberal allowance in furs for them. 
iSomehave such contidencein his healing power as to send the garment 
of a sick child many miles to him in order that he may sleep on it. 
Liebigstag, a tyt)ne, who has several shamans in his following, caused 
all to absent themselves from his canqi on hearing of our near api)roach. 
Farther up the river, however, they are comimrativel^^ luimerous, and 
are detected by the uncovered, uncut condition of their hair. They are 
non-producers, whose missions are those of priest and prophet of the 
most primitive style. 

The skillies are necessarily manj', and not a few of them have vassals 
at their beck and call. I have seen one of fourteen or lifteen 3ears of 
age, sitting within a few feet of the river, order a man C feet high, a 
vassal, to bring him water. These menials are used for all kinds of 
work, and are as completely under control of their masters as they pos- 
sibly could be, yet I never heard of corporal punishment being admin- 
istered to them. It is but natural to suppose that a threat of de- 
priving them of food or shelter in their poverty-stricken condition 
would be sufficient incentive to urge them to any length of obedience. 

The dead are put under the ground and the site marked by a square 
frame, about 3 by 5 in plan, placed above. There seems to be no spe- 
cial ceremony attending marriage ; a man possessing a few kettles, etc., is 
always eligible, and when he meets his fate takes her. 



INDIANA OF THE QUINAIBLT AGENCY, AVASHINGTON 

TERRITORY. 

By C. WiLL<»u(;iiJ5V. 

Tlie Indians now on tlic (Jninaielt Agency arc of the iSali.sbaii stock, 
and consist of the loUowing- bands: Ayliut, 'dii: Chehalis, 5- IIolis, 01: 
Ilnniptnlip, 1(5: lloiiuiano, IG; Montesano, 10; Georgetown, 09; mixed 
Moods,.!; v^nilts. So; Quiuaielts, 107; Salsop, 12. In all there are 
males, L*i;3 ; females, 1*10. 

In [)oint of intelligence they do not conjparo favorably with other 
tribes of Washington Territory. They are indolent, nneleanly, wanting 
in ambition, and for the most part nnable to understand any enterprise 
that would benetit them tinancially. They are not satisfied to look for- 
ward to a crop in the fall as .a result of sowing in the spring-time. An 
abandoned cannery at this place was never operated, because of the 
exorbitant price demanded for their Ush hy tlie Indians. Their dwell- 
ings \a;y fiom those patterned after the white man's house, where 
stoves, chairs, bedsteads, etc., may bo found, to the old smoke-blackened 
lodges of a former day. The latter are built of boards hewn out by hand 
from slabs si)lit from the si)ruce tree by means of yew wedges and stone 
mauls, and dresse<l with an adz. In former times when iron was un- 
known the ad/ was made from the ribs of the whale. The modern 
adz, with iron blades and elk-horn handles, are very elfective implc!- 
ments. The l)oards are from 12 to 14 inches in width, some times 24 
inches wide. These squarely built lodges have a pitched roof, while 
those of the Mahaks are Hal. A latch-string opens the rude door, the 
lower part of which is about a foot below the level of the ground out- 
side. An earth lloor in the middle of the lodge is bordered on each 
side l)y a platform of boards a foot high and about 3.J feet wide. On 
these })lattbi'ms the women sit to weave their mats and baskets, and 
behind the platforms next the wall and on both sides of the lodge are 
r;inged their beds of matting and blankets, raised 3 feet from the 
ground, and extending the whole length of the building. The sleeping 
mats are from 7 to S feet in length, 3 and 4 feet wide, and are made of 
rushes found in the neighborhood. They are used for bedding, and also 
as a lining to the walls of their lodges. A bed consists of five or six 
of these rngs \n\ed up to form a mattress. The rug rolled at the end 

^G7 



268 



PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 



forms tlic pillow. The«e ni.i;s arc iiKule by !sc%vin.i;- tlirotigli the rnsbes, 
just as if strini;iiig tboiii together on a hempen twine. The ne«'(lle is 
made from the ulna of the albatross's wing. A wooden ereasin- is used 
to rub down the seams of the mat. The beds are protected from the 
weather by rush or tiag matting fastened nj)on the wall. Each family 
living in a lodge has its own separate tire, built upon the ground. 
Dishes were formerly kept in baskets or boxes, but ni;iy now be seen in 
rude cui)boards near the fire. 

The wiuter supply of fish is smoked and dried in the lodge, which is 
used at the same time as a dwelling, and the atmosphere is always 
redolent of smoke, old fish, and ^' rii)e " fish eggs. Drift-wood, of which 
their beach furnishes an unusually large supply, is brought to (he lodge 
by the Momen. Before the introduction of matches lire was procured by 
friction from very dry dead cotton-wood. A stick of this was ])ointed 
and placed in a small cavity made in another i)iece of wood, the hands 
rapidly moving the upright stick as if drilling.* 

The sticks with three cavities were placed ui)on the ground, the In- 
dian kneeling and ])lacing a knee upon each eiul. lie jdaced one end 
of the smaller stick in one of the cavities, and, holding the other end be- 
tween the palms of his hands, kept up a rapi<l half-rotary motion, cans 
ing an amount of friction sufidcieut to produce fire. AVith this he lighted 
the end of the braided slow-match of cedar bark. This was often car- 
ried for weeks thus ignited and held carefidly beneath the blanket to 
protect it from wind and rain. 

In former times clothing was made iVom seal, elk, 
bear, and rabbit skins; also of rushes and cedar 
bark, the i)lun)age of ducks and other fowl being 
sometimes woven into the latter. In the olden time 
the skin of the woodchu^k was much jtrized, blank- 
ets made therefrom being used only by chiefs. 
Large basket-work hats were formerly worn. At 
present grass hats resembling those of white peo- 
ple in shape. The fur garments once worn by the 
Quinaielts are no longer in existence. On great oc- 
casions, when Indians belonging to other tribes are 
visiting the Qninaielt, the dress of the latter varies 
from civilized garb by the Avearing of their newest 
and most gaily colored blankets. A new patchwork 
calico quilt has been seen distinguishing the tall 
form of the chief, and bright head-feathers are in 
denmnd for caps and hats. Then the women wear 
Fig. 1. Qumaioit^vom.aii their luost gaudy calico dresses, don their ear and 

iu dress of cedar baric. . '•l-i,,.i- -iii i -i. 

nose rings, sprinkle their liair with down, and paint 
the face a flaming red, a combination of black and red seeming to be pre- 




* Tbo rue-sticks collecttMl by Mr. \VilIoui;bby are just as rmlu as tbis device could 
WCill be, and may staud for tbo b)\vest typo of the lire-making tools. — O. T. M. 



INDIANS OF THE (.UnN/VTELT ADRNCV 



269 



ferred by the men. I Ikivo .seen iiii old woman, tlu^ lol)e of wliose ear was 
cut into live or six deep scallops, where lier ear-rings had been torn out 
during quarrels with others of her sex. When she drew down the cartil- 
age of her nose to insert its ring she was a grotesque-looking object. The 
skirt of cedar bark Avas formerly 
the only garment reaching from 
the waist that was worn by In- 
dian women. The stri[)S of bark 
were laid over a rude frame set iu 
the ground, consisting of a thin, 
flat piece of wood about 2 feet 
long set edgewise into a support 
at each end made of two sticks 
tied together. Tiie bark was 
then bent over the frame ami 
creased and bruised b}- the in- 
strument nmde from the skull of 
the whale. The bark was then 
made still softer and more pliable 
by rubbing with the hands. 

Many \'arieties of salmon taken 
from the ( Juinaielt lliver tbrm the 
))rincipal tV)od ofthistribe. When 
fresh it is eaten boiled, or roasted 
by fastening to a stick set hrmly 
in the ground and slanting to- 
wards tlui lire. The Indians also dry and salt their salmon. Salmon 
eggs, from the large '"Steel head" are taken from the tish and packed 
without salt or cleansing in boxes or barrels until the latter are lilled. 
They are then left to ferment and swell, in ma,n.\ cases buisting the ])ack- 
ages. The eggs become indescribably putrid and at last solidify, so 
that they nmy be cut like cheese. They are thus considered deliciously 
"ripe" and lit for food. 

Their ancient dishes were made of yew and their si)oons of horn. 
Ibilfalo-skull dishes, with large handles, canu' originally from the 
headwaters of the Colnnd)ia Ki\'er. The Atona or Chinook Indians, 
wishing to procure slaves, invaded ;i village of the Cohnnbia, Ki\«u' In- 
dians and destroyed altout half their houses. Those of the Colund>ia 
liiver Indians who were not killed ran away and hid in the forests, ex- 
cept a wonuin and child, who were (;a])tured and carried away. The 
Skokomish Indians took away with them also many ai-ticles of house 
hold furniture, inclmling dishes made, of the skulls of buffaloes. Tiiesci 
wei'C bought froai the Chinooks by the (^)ninaielt- Indians, w iio ])aid for 
them witli canoes and blankets. Tlie dishes ai'o said to be very old, 
and oulv to be found among the descendants of the chiefs. These heir- 




Fii:. 2. Cedar haik cincture, and api)arat.iis tor 
making. 



270 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

looms were unexpectedly discovered by the curious wliite man among- 
heaps of old rags, basket grass, strips of dried fish, and lumps ot fer- 
mented cheese-like fish eggs that bad accumulated in dark and grimy 
corners of the lodges. Still they are much prized and no poor family 
can afford to own them. The Quinaielts are not inclined to take an in- 
terest in agriculture, on account of the abundance of fish to be obtained. 
They also use the tender shoots of rushes, young salmon-berry sprouts, 
and other succulent growths of the spring-time. The salmon-berry 
sprouts are very freely eaten in the early spring, and their use is always 
followed by an eruption of the skin and by inflamed eyes, rendering 
many of the Indians sightless for a time. I have seen the same efiect 
produced among- the Makahs when I was in charge of that agency, but 
to a far less extent. 

A plentiful supply of bulbous roots, as those of the lakamas and fern 
roots, are made available for food by this people. Strawberries, the 
wild currant, and gooseberry, thimble berrries, blackbeiries, crab- 
apples, sal-lal, and cranberries, huckleberries, and other small fruits 
are found in large quantities. Sal-lal berries are mashed, dried, and 
smoked in large cakes for winter use. J>ear, whale, and seal oil are 
largely drank at their feasts. Berries are also served upon such occa- 
sions, floating- in these oils. Sometimes, but rarely, a deer, bear, or 
elk is secured, and the fiesh of seal ami otter is eaten. Any putrid 
fiesh that floats ashore is eagerly devoured. The beaching- of a whale 
creates the greatest excitement, and the largest amount possible of the 
decaying blubber is secured to be eaten or dried for future use. Sea- 
gulls, ducks,, geese, and other fowl, eggs of sea-birds, sea-weeds, crabs, 
clams, and other shell-fish complete their bill of fare. 

The drag-net is used for fishing- in narrow streams of water ; for using 
it two canoes are necessary, with strut from G to 8 feet apart and bows 
diverging. An Indian sits in the stern of each canoe, each Indian 
holding one pole of the net in one hand, while the other hand holds tight 
the string that keeps the mouth of the net open. The string always 
remains fastened to the pole, but when the Indian relaxes his hold on 
the string, as he does in hauling up the net, the mouth of the net closes, 
preventing the fish from escaping. The two canoes go up the river 
until 200 or 300 yards from the mouth ; the net is then placed, as in illus- 
tration, and one Indian in each canoe i)addles, while another throws 
stones to frighten the fish. Then they paddle down the river with the 
current into the narrow passage near the bar. Thus while catching 
salmon in the drag-net, as tliey proceeded down stream, they are at the 
same time driving the fish towards the Indians, who are standing in 
the shallow water on the bar, ready to spear them. Tiien from fifteen 
to twenty Indians stand on tlie bar, from 8 to 10 feet apart, and throw- 
ing stones, drive the salmon towards the bar, where, at low tide, the 
water is from 8 to 12 inches deep. The shaft of the salmon spear is 



INDIANS OF THE QUINAIELT AGENCY. 



271 



made of cocLir, the Ibrk, of the wood of tbc salmon borry; tb. barbs, 
" o Hi or .n tab Tbc' loop of cord, .bicb is 10 feet Ion,, us lor tbe 
left band, as sbown in sketcb. Tbe lengtb of tbe spear .s nearl, IG 
fete. Tbis spear is used on tbe bar of tbe river at low water. 




Fig. :^,-ri8hin.- with .. .Ini- net i" Washingfon Territory. 

Tbe bantlle of tbe surf n.^t is (.ommonly made of yew wood. T^ormerly 
the twine of tbe net wns nnuleby tbe Indians ironi tbe liber ol tl.e c-<.m- 
,„,„ ,,,tt,e, wbicb in some loealities be re bas a very luxnrianf jirowtb 




Y\G. <i._Bar1>p<l salninn sponr, and tlie iiioile of use. 



and is a, ood substitute ibr Hax. All tbe lisb nets of tbes,- lndi=uK, 
were once made of tbis material; at present seme twine .s used. 



272 



PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 



The .surf net is used in catcliing the eiilacbon, or candle iisb, and smelt. 
As the sur-f rolls in, the Indian runs rapidly forward, and bending down, 
passes the net under the comb of the breaker, often capturing- at once 
as many as an ordinary water bucket will hold. The handle of the 
surf net is G feet long, mouth of the net 4 feet by 18 iucbes; depth of 
the net about 3 feet. The Indians hold the bottom of the net drawn 
back underneath the handle until they thrust the net in the water when 
they let the point fall. 




Fig. 5. — Poles of net 10 or 12 feet ; montli of net 6 or 8 feet wide ; net about 12 feet 

loujj. 



The river net is used as in the accomi)anying illustration, the Indian 
running a little faster than the current. Length of handle, 11 feet; 
net's mouth, 1 by 5 feet;' depth of net, 4 feet. They are made of the 
same material as the other nets. They are all rudely i)ut together, ajul 
are used in catching the small Quinaiolt salmon, pronounced to be the 
finest species of this family. Their superior quality is no doubt owing 
to tlieir peculiar feeding grounds in this locality. Their average weight 
is about 4 jtounds, uncommonly deep and rich in coloi-. 

Their method of forming the knot in their nets is the same as that of 
tlie whites. Their nets are now made of twine, but were formerly made 
from nettles, rotted as ])revi()usly described. The strands were twisted 
singly across the naked thigli until the required length was obtained; 
then two strands were twisted logetlier on the thigh, the ends being 



INDIANS OF THE QUINAIELT AUENCY. 



273 



held by the left hand while the two strands were rolled togctlier by a 
slow forward and quick backward motion of the right hand. 




■//udiftt. ^ f ^ 



Fig. 6. — Small uet used for catcliiuo; small river .salmon. 



These Indians have several unwritten laws regarding the beach. If 
a seal or otter is found by aii Indian the profits nuist be divided by any 
companions who are with him. Formerly different parts of the beach 
belonged to different factions. An Indian of one faction could not 
claim i)roperty found on the beacli of another faction. This rule is not 
as firmly adhered to as formerly. Drift-wood, when chopped and left 
piled against a log on the beach, is never disturbed by others in search 
of fuel; but any lost article is considered as belonging to the finder, 
though the owner be known to him. It is diificult to change their ideas 
in the latter respect. If they give up the article to the owner they ex- 
pect to be paid its full value. 

BasJcetry. — The Quinaielts excel in textile industry as distinguished 
from the tanning of furs. They have the cedar bark for the foundation 
of basketry and strips of the i)ine root for rigid work, hemp rushes and 
grass for the weft and ornamentation. The grass used in strengthen- 
ing the borders of mats, rain cloaks, etc., grows on flat places. It is 
prepared like flax, by soaking in water until the outer portion decays, 
when it is beaten with sticks until only the fiber remains. The yellow 
fiber or grass used by Indians for the outside of baskets is a great 
source of traffic among these Indians, as it is only found in this locality. 
The basket grass is gathered very carefully, one blade at a time, to 
secure that part of the stalk that reaches about 6 inches under the 
ground before it meets the root. To prepare the grass for drying 
H. Mis. 170 18 



274 PAPERS EELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

it is woven together at the ends with libers of cedar bark. It is then 
spread upon the ground or upon roofs in the sun. When to be used it 
is moistened with water and split with two small knife-blades, set in a 
stick in such a manner as to make the strips of the same width, the 
smaller portion being thrown away. The grass is kept moist with water 
while being made into baskets. The colored grasses are prepared by 
using aniline dyes. They were formerly colored by steepiug the roots 
of plants that yielded a 3'ellow coloring. A red dye was made from 
the bark of alder, and a paint was made of blue aVdy. 

DOMESTIC KELATIONS. 

In their domestic relations chastity seems to be almost unknown. 
These x)eople are among the most, if not the most, degraded and dis- 
eased tribes of this coast. The parents usually manifest great affection 
for their children, although the animal instinct seems to predominate in 
this trait. The manner of the Indian boy toward his mother is almost 
uniformly disrespectful. The condition of the wife is one of degrada- 
tion. She is expected to bring all the wood used for household pur- 
jioses, as it is considered a disgrace for a man to be seen doing such 
work. The woman is expected to dig all the clams and roots and to 
pick all the berries used by the family, the husband supplying fish and 
game. 

The foreheads of the children are compressed (with few exceptions) 
soon after birth by laying a small bag containing feathers or the fine 
beaten fiber of cedar bark on the forehead. Infants are kept constantly 
in small wooden trays, so tightly wrapped as to permit no use of the 
limbs, until they are six months old. 

When a girl is married after the Indian style, the father of the girl 
receives compensation in the shape of horses, blankets, and money. 
Even when the marriage ceremony is i^erformed by the agent this part 
of the old customs is often retained. 

Still "women's rights" are sometimes asserted, as in the case of the 
woman with scalloped ears, who fought a desperate fight with another 
squaw to decide which should marry a medicine man, who appeared to 
have no voice in the matter. Another instance is that of a school girl, 
who throws large sticks of wood at her husband when he displeases her. 
He respects, though, her superior education, and when asked why he 
does not retaliate, replied: "Because I do not like to strike a lady!" 

The aged people were foruierly neglected, and their death hastened 
by starvation and abuse; but fear of punishment now restrains the 
Indians from this cruelty. 

The native idea of a Supreme Being finds an embodiment, as with the 
Makahs, in the Socca-li, Tyee Bird, who is not as awe-inspiring, how- 
ever, as the Makah Thunder Bird, for, according to a Quinaielt legend, 
he finds two panthers, brought to him at his request "to play with," 
more tlian he can manage, and lie entreats "the man," his servant and 



INDIANS OF THE QUINAIELT AGENCY. 275 

compauioi), to take tliem away. Lookiug down upon the caitli from his 
house on a high mouutain, and seeing a great many Indians phiying 
ball, he covets the ball and sends the man to steal it for him ! Sneh is 
the childishness of their religious ideas! ' 

The me satch-ies, or evil si)irits, who take possession of sick people, 
and whom the doctors are employed to drive out, seem to occupy their 
thoughts to the exclusion of the great bird. With loud beating of the 
Indian drum and of sticks, accompanied by their own voices and the con- 
tortions and guttural howls and wails of their doctors, they seek to drive 
out the unwelcome guest. The lips of the medicine man are often a])- 
plied to the body to draw out the evil spirit. An Indian school girl 
was lately dangerously sick; her friends wishe 1 to have her removed 
to ^'the ranch" for treatment by Indian doctors. As she expressed no 
wisli in the matter, she was kept in the school and received treatment 
from the reservation doctor. She recovered, but the credit of her re- 
covery was not given to the white physician. One of her shoes and 
some of her clothing had been taken to the ranch and had been doctored 
by the medicine men ; hence her recovery ! 

The Quinaielts have no large figures of idols. The little tamanautas 
sticks, with faces rudely carved upon them, are the only objects at all 
resembling idols. The doctors place these sticks in an upright [)osi- 
tion around the patient, to assist in conquering the disease. The In- 
dians stand in great fear of the medicine man. They believe if they 
disobey him that he has the power of casting an evil spell upon them ; 
that he will cause them to sicken and die. It seems to be impossible to 
eradicate this feeling from their minds. Little can be expected from 
theolderand middle-aged people with regard tolaying aside tlieir ancient 
superstitions. Some of the latter, who profess to do so, practically re- 
tain their old faith in the medicine man. 

While in school and listening to the advice and explanations of white 
people, the Indian children, as a rule, are not unwilling to take medi- 
cine as prescribed; but if their friends visit and talk to them their old 
])rejudices seem to be revived. In one case an Indian girl resisted all 
efforts to give her suitable remedies, declaring she would rather die 
than take the white doctor's medicine. She died in a day or two after. 
Although sick with an incurable disease, her life might have been 
greatly prolonged if she had consented to receive the medicine required. 

Many of the adult Indians seem not oidy willing but anxious to use 
the medicines of the white man, but prefer to use them in combination 
with the efforts of their own doctors, any good resulting from taking 
the medicines being always attributed to the power of the medicine 
man. 

Kecent circumstances have developed the fact that poison is used by 
these Indian doctors to hasten the death of patients considered incurable. 
1 have been told that a poison made from toadstools v/as formerly used. 
At present strong poisons are obtained from unprincipled white men, 



276 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

who sell a small bottle of i)oisoD to the Iiuliaus for a very high price. 
Parents of Indian children have been known to ask the agency physi- 
cian for poison with which to end the sufferings of the sick son or 
daughter. They say they do 'not like to see their friends linger when 
they can not recover. The sudden death of those who have been long- 
sick, but are in no immediate danger, is no doubt owing to the use of 
poison by the medicine men. 

A common river or marsh moss is used for heart disease, and is eaten 
fresh from the water. Fern is used for the same purpose, eaten raw. 
The water of boiled crab-apple leaves is used as a drink for spitting 
blood. Leaves of a tree bearing yellow flowers and black berries {Lon- 
icera involucrata) are chewed for sore mouth, or the}^ are chewed and 
rubbed on sores. 

Wood moss is applietl to sores. A common weed {Geum macrophyl- 
him) is a universal remedy, " good for everything." The leaves are 
eaten raw. Fungus is chewed and rubbed on sore neck. The roots of 
Maianthemum bifolium are chewed and applied to sore eyes. Having 
given these uses of the few S]>ecimeus brought, the squaw suddenly 
crushed them all up together in her hand and carried them off. She 
said there were many more herbs used here, but that they grew far 
away. She promised to bring me some, but thus far has failed to do 
so. 

Among the forest trees on the bank of the river their graves are 
made conspicuous by the quantity of white cloth or colored fabrics in- 
closing or floating above them. At present, as formerly, all the per- 
sonal property of the Indian is buried with him or decorates his grave. 
With the last Indian woman who died here a large quantity of good 
clothing and a nice sewing-machine were buried. In old times the ani- 
mals belonging to an Indian, his horses, cattle, etc., were killed upon 
the grave, but through the influence of the agents this practice is dis- 
continued. A recent exception to the usual custom is the case of a sick 
Indian who believes he will soon die, and who has made his will, leav- 
ing his personal effects, as well as his house, to his brother. These In- 
dians have not the same fear of handling a dead body as is shown by 
the Makahs, wlio hurry it away wliile still warm, although the Quin- 
aielt bury the body in the earth or lay it in a sheltered canoe very soon 
after death. In putting the body of a dead Indian into its cofdn or 
box, the body is sulfered to lie just as it is first placed. If in the haste 
conse<pient upon the dislike of these Indians to handling a dead person 
it is put face down it is suflered to remain so, and in carrying the 
dreaded burden the box or coffin is tipped and handled with a rough- 
ness and disrespect distressing to civilized men. 

Mention has been made of the houses inclosing the dead. 

The coflin of an Indian who died last spring was placed in a box, 
with rounded end, raised high on i)osts. The box was covered with red 
cloth, and cloth was stretched around and covered the i)osts. Over it 



INDIANS OF THE QUINAIELT AGENCY. 



277 



waves a largo American flag, the property of tlie deceased, in i^lace of 
the usual gaily colored or white streamers of calico or other cloth. 











■-' /^^ 



— (<»* 









Jr, 



— i i 



I IG 7 r\ III ])le of (j>nMn(lt buinl 

The bod}' of an Indian girl who died about a month ago rests in a 
large ocean canoe, raised on posts, to which it is tied, a white roof cov- 
ering the coijQn. 

Between tliese two is a grave, to which are nailed rusty pans and 
crockery, and near by a small one resembling a house, covered with 
white cloth. These graves with others are on the river bank just across 
from the village and very near the river's mouth. Others are scattere<l 
along at short intervals on the Avay up the river. When articles such 
as shawls are placed in the collin, a narrow strip 2 or 3 inches wide is 
torn off by some friend ])robabl3' to render the shawl useless and to pre- 
vent its being stolen. The house in which an Indian dies is sometimes 
torn down ; recent orders forbid this iiractice now. Instead, a tama- 
nawas is often kept up in the house for three days after death to drive 
away the spirit supposed to be still haunting the place. 

They are superstitious concerning owls, believing them to be dead 
Indians. The idea of eating a robin is regarded with horror, not from 
any humane feeling, as I liave yet to see an Indian child of this tribe 
who does not take pleasure in torturing birds and small aninmls. To 
eat while passing an Indian grave is to cause the mouth to grow awry 
and so remain ; to use any clothing that belonged to a dead person 
would be speedy death. Their dances seem to have no special meaning^ 



278 PAPERS RELATING TO A^;THROPOLOGY. 

except, perhaps, the elk dance, which theyi)erform dressed iu the skins 
of the elk, just before going on a hunting expedition. 

Seguan, lueaning a mole, is the name of the wooden image used by 
one of the medicine men, "Sammy," and is called by him, in English, 
" my doctor." The medicine man professes to believe that this image 
is animated hj a spirit that tells the medicine man if auj- one is sick or 
dying at a distance. If, as the medicine man says, any one dies, the 
seguan disappears from the house and goes down into the ground. It 
travels underground from one place to another. 

The image has small eyes and mouth, and, resembling a mole, can 
not see much, but has great will powei;. 

In doctoring, the se-guan always sings; but no one can hear it ex- 
cei)t its medicine man. If the patient is going to die, the image warns 
tbe doctor. In the night, the seguan stands in the middle of Sammy's 
floor and sings, and is the guardian angel of the household. As the 
mole is Sammy's protector, Sammy never kills a mole. The scgnan 
goes to the graveyard and looks after the dead ; but none of the dead 
speak to him when he goes there. 

In traveling, if the se-guan sees a fire, he never goes near it. If 4:he 
image should get burned, his medicine man, Sammy, would immediately 
die; and if Sammy's " doctor" should meet that of another medicine 
man, both medicine men would soon expire. If Sammy travels, the se- 
guan follows him, even if unsunimoned, and is to be seen by Sammy 
wherever he goes. 

About six years ago Sammy had the vision that made him a doctor. 
Then he heard all kinds of noises proceeding from the earth, and saw 
spirits and tamauaws (images) " and their little bones were rattling." 
Sammy had power given him by the Soccali Tyee Bird (the ruling bird 
spirit) to make and to have iu his possession tire images, or "doctors," 
at once. In order to give or sell one of these images to a white man, 
the Indian doctor must make a new image like the one to be disposed 
of, and must place it for a while beside the old one to absorb its spirit. 
If a new one should not be made, the Soccali Tyee Bird would be angry. 

The image tells the doctor when contagious diseases will prevail, and 
whether they will make the medicine man sick or not; also, how many 
Indians will be sick, and how many will die. He tells the doctor what 
to do " to take the sickness out." If any one is about to have sore 
eyes, the medicine man sees the mole coming from the direction of the 
water. Its " rattling bones " are deer's toe-nails. 

A second image in Sammy's possession is a brother of the mole and 
exactly resembles the se-guan in appearance. When Sammy's brother, 
Henry, died, the mole's brother conducted Henry to his new abode in 
the land of spirits, remained there two mouths and returned to Sammy 
with a favorable account of the condition and hapj)iness of Henry. 
Sammy says that the other world is just the same as this, except that 
everything is better. There are to be found all kinds of iish, elk, and 



INDIANS OF THE QUINAIELT AGENCY. 279 

deer. Of late years, horses also. There are uo white men there. This 
is the most definite aceouut of their superstitions obtainable from the 
present medicine men of this tribe, as they are usually unwilling to 
speak on this subject to white people. 

A third image belonging to Sammy is made of cedar bark and seal 
blubber, painted. This one tells Sammy to wash his face and bathe 
with oil before he begins to doctor. The cedar-bark image regulates 
the wind currents, is the " doctor of the setting sun," and makes the 
ocean smooth. lie tells Sammy what to do when fishing or whaling, 
and whether he will be successful or not. This image has been lately 
manufactured. Sammy says he will try it, and if it proves to be a 
deceitful adviser he will burn it up. 

The Soc-cd-li Tyce IHnl. — The SoccaliTyee Bird lives in a mountain. 
A man wanted to marry the Soccali Tyee Bird's daughter, and the 
Soccali Tyee said, "Xo;" he did not want to marry that girl to that 
man. And that girl wanted to marry very bad with that man, and 
her father would not let her go and marry with that man. And the 
Soccali Tj'ee Bird told the man to get him some bears to play with. 
And the man told the Soccali Tyee that he would fetch the bear to 
play with. And that man fetch two bears with a string to take it 
in the house and give it to that Soccali TYee. And the Soccali Tyee 
Bird went to that two bears to play with, and the bears tried to fight 
the Soccali Tyee Bird. And the Soccali Tyee Bird told that man to 
take it out ; that he was too much afraid for him. And the Soccali 
T^'ee Bird told that man to bring two panthers in that house to play 
with. And he brought it in the house with a string. And that Soc^ 
call Tyee Bird went in to play with the panthers, and that Soccali 
Tyee Bird afraid for the panthers. And the panthers take the stick 
to him like everything. And the Soccali Tyee Bird tried to go to the 
two i)anthers and tried to tight him, and the Soccali Tyee Bird tried 
to go away from him and go in his bed ; and the two panthers tried 
to go on the Soccali Tyee and torn his shirt like everything. And the 
Soccali Tyee Bird told the man that wanted to marry that girl to take 
the i)anthers away from the house. And the Soccali Tyee Bird told 
that man to go and fetch him snow — great lots of snow on the mountain. 
And that man brought just little bit of snow like a ball. And that 
Soccali Tyee got mad about it, because he did not brought lots of snow 
for him. And that Soccali Tyee Bird tried to eat that snow; and that 
snow did not all go in his mouth. And that Soccali Tyee sat down on 
his bed and he get cold, and he tried and go and sit down at the fire 
to make himself warm, and that Soccali Tyee almost dead, because he 
eat lots of snow. And he throwed it away on the house, and the house 
full of snow. And the Soccali Tyee told that man that wanted to marry 
to take that snow away from the house. 

And the Soccali Tyee told that man to go ai]d fetch .some wood. 



280 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGV 

And that man that wanted to marry brought him great lots of wood. 
And that Soccali Tyee tried to cut that wood in two pieces. And the 
Soccali Tyee told that man to get right in the wood (like a hollow log). 
The Soccali Tyee took an ax away from that stick, and that man was 
in the stick, and that Soccali Tyee tried to go away from that sticky 
and that man was in that stick. Because that Soccali Tyee think that 
man was dead. And that Soccali Tyee stay in the house as long- as he 
can. And that man get in the house with the wood. And that Soccali 
man get mad about that man because he thought he was dead, and he 
is alive now. 

And that Soccali Tyee tried to go out trom the house. And that 
Soccali Tyee saw lots of i)eople on the end of the land. And the Soc- 
cali Tyee saw lots of ])eople to play in the Indian land. And the lots 
of people play with a ball and they throw it. They throw it and it 
get burnt. And that Soccali Tyee tried to go in the house. And the 
Soccali Tyee told that man to go in the people to steal that ball for 
him. 

And that man tried to go and take that ball away from the people. 
And that man that wanted to marry tried to stand between the peo]>h' 
and watch the ball. And the people throw the ball away, and he take 
it. Tried to run as fast as he could. And the people cried like every- 
thing. And they took the i)itchwood and tried to burn it, because the 
land was too dark like everything to see the man. And the people 
tried to take the ball away from that man, and the laud is raining like 
everything, and the light is gone out. And the people go back again. 
They did not take the ball from that man. fie run like everything. 
And that man that wauted to marry gave that ball to the Soccali Tyee 
Bird. And the Soccali Tyee Bird was glad, and that man married the 
daughter of the Soccali Tyee Bird. 

A story of men and animals. — A lady was married to a man a. few dajs, 
and she went into the woods to i)ick some berries; and she was there 
in the woods as long as she can to pick some berries, and then she 
came back in the house. Next morning, then again, she will go to the 
woods and pick some berries; and the lady was stay in the woods as 
long as she can; and her hirsband tried to sell her dress and clothes 
and everything away from her. And the lady came back to the house 
and tried to find her dress and everything to change her things. And 
she get mad, because she never find her things in the house; and she 
didn't want her husband any nu)re. And the man was mad, and told 
his wife to go to the woods to pick some berries as fast as she could. 
And the man tried to put his wife on his back, and tried to put her in 
a high tree, and the man told his wife to sit down in the tree; and he 
leave his wif^ in the tree and go home again. 

And the woman cried as loud as she could, because her three brothers 
was fishing in the river. The woman she get three brothers. One of 



INDIANS OF THE QUINAIELT AGENCY. 281 

the woman's brotlior's back was broken, and he lieard the cryin,2:, and 
he said that it just looked like his sister crying-; that he hear it. And 
the three boys went back again. And those three boys told his father 
and mother that it jnst looked like his sister was crying in the woods; 
and this man and woman came down the river to see the woman; and 
that father tried to ask that man where his wife go to. And that man 
said that woman had gone to the woods to pick some berries; that she 
was on the tree. And the man and wonnin tricnl to go back up the 
river again ; and those three boys tried to go fishing np the river again, 
and they saw his sister in the high tree, and they heard that woman 
say : " Oh, that is my brother that was fishing in the river !■' And those 
three boys went back and tried to tell his father and mother that it was 
his sister in the high tree. 

And the man and woman went in the woods and tell all the animals — 
bear, wolf, fox, whale, blue-jay — every animal. And those animals go 
with that man and woman to take that woman that was in that tree 
away from that tree. 

And the whale tried to stand up and to take that woman that was in 
that tree, and he stand jnst a few minutes and fall down. 

And the sea-lion tried to go and fetch that woman that was in the 
tree. Ue stand up and he fall down. 

And the blue jay scolded the whale because he couldn't fetch the 
woman. x\nd the whale tried to scold the bhie-jay, and the whale told 
the blue jay to go on the high tree and take the woman away from the 
tree himself. And the blue-jay tried to go and take the woman away 
from the tree. And the jay tried, and then he will fall down. And the 
blue jay fall down. Hurts him — dead! And the bear tried to doctor 
him, and he get well now. And as soon as he get well, he tried to scold 
again at the whale. And the whale scolded the bear, becanse he doc- 
tored the blue-jay. He didn't want him to get well, because he scold 
too much to everybody. And the whale told the bear, " Why didn't 
he let him to dead?" because nobody like him. 

And this woman— one of her brothers had his back broken— every- 
body scold him, because he never think he was going to fetch his sister. 
And that boy tried to go up in the high tree and fetch his sister, and 
the boy was singing, and the people was singing, and the animals was 
singing, and everybody was singing. The blue-jay scolded the whale, 
because he never helped the animals to sing! 

And the boy brought his sister away from the tree and put her on his 
back and all the animals felt joyful now. And the bine-jay scolded, 
scolded. He never get joyful with the other animals. And the blue- 
j.iy was getting mad to the whale. And all of them were going hon)e 
now. And that hnsband want his wife again. And the animals didn't 
want htm to take his wife again. And the blue-jay scolded that hus- 
band man, because he don't want that woman to have that man now. 
And the vromau went home with her father and mother. 



282 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

Capture of icives.—Tho, Indians living at the mouth of the Quinaielt 
River were formerly hostile to those tribes living- further up the stream, 
towards its source, a lake. Two S'Kokomish Indians came over the 
mountains to the lake hunting elk. Two Quinaielt Indians were hunt- 
ing near by and found the fire of the S'Kokomish Indians ; also a 
squaw left in camp, whom the Quinaielts captured and carried home 
with them. As they journeyed, the woman tore her blanket and scat- 
tered pieces along the way. These were found by her two friends, who 
returned to their tribe and brought a large number of S'Kokomish In- 
dians back with them to the lake. The S'Kokomish were on one side of 
the lake, the Quinaielts on the other. S'Kokomish Indians sent one of 
their number for canoes, A lake Indian, who was fishing, discovered 
the S'Kokomish crossing in a canoe and informed others of the Quinai- 
elts, who captured the S'Kokomish. Two of the lake Indians then 
crossed to see where the rest of their enemies were concealed. They 
were found in the woods, gambling by a fire, while awaiting the return 
of their messenger. Consequentlj^, the S'Kokomish Indians were sur- 
])rised at night when asleep, and were killed by the Quinaielts with flint 
knives and hammers. 

The Quinaielts took with them to their village the S'Kokomish who 
was captured while crossing the lake. He was bound to a stake in the 
middle of the village. A council was held to decide his fiite, and he 
was pierced by a great number of arrows and left to die. The woman 
first captured became one of the numerous wives of the Quinaielt chief. 



THE STONE AGE OF OREGON. 

I',Y r.KV. M. Eells. 

The stone n-e of Orei^on, like tliat of Washington, is mainly recent. 
It was evidently fully alive a hundred years ago, and a little o the ..nt- 
cropping may ^till be seen, though it is probably more nearly bur.ed 
than that of Washington. t> * 

Tcon,parison of the articles which I have seen, with those on Pugel 
Sound, shows a considerable diiference. This is partly accounted tor 
because the Puget Sound Indians gained the largest share ot their liv- 
:^ Ivon. the w.^ers of the sound, while the natives of On;gon, aUlu^ugh 
gaining considerable of their living from the Columbuj, ^^ iHamette, am 
other livers, yet lived more from the products of the land. The Puge. 
Sounder trax^led, too, mainly by water, while the Oregonian used horse.s 
largely for locomotion. Another reason for the difterence between the 
article used by the inhabitants of the two regions was probably because 
of the slight intercourse and trade between them. 

The distance by water was too great out of the sound by the StiaUs 
of Fuca to the n^outh of the Columbia, and the sailing on the ocean too 
dangerous for canoe traveling, while the heavy forests or the JO m.lts 
thich lay between the headwaters of Puget Sound and the Colun.b.a 
River was a great obstacle to both foot and horseback travel, so that 
the people of each region had mainly to manufacture their own nnple- 
,„ei^s during the stone age. There was a little travel am -;^ -- 
the Columbia up the Cowlitz Eiver, and then throug^j the to ests o 
Puget Sound, and a little from Puget Sound across to the head of t^he 
Chehalis, and down it to Gray's Harbor, thence to Astoria; but th s 
was limited. That great forest was a dividing line between the people 

of the two sections. . ^^ fi-n Tn.iium 

The Indians of British Columbia often came in canoes to the Indians 
of Puget Sound, who thus obtained articles from tliat far oft region, and 
the people of the Willamette Valley went to the Columbia ami up l|e 
Columbia for fish, where numerous Indians congregated, a.id tlRSc 
turn traded with the people of eastern Oregon, who by l^orseback . nt 
over the vast plains, the buffalo country east of the Rocky Mountains, 
and occasionally to California, Nevada, and Utah. . nr i> 

Autnoritics.-Yov private collections of Oregon V^^^^^^f^'V; f^ ' ^• 
Ratferty, East Portland; H. C. Stevens, Oregon City; Mrs. Helen A. 

Kunzie, Umatilla. +i.nf rf.crinn 

G. M.Powers, of Shedd's station, has examined moumlsin that cg^on 

(American Antiquarian, May, 188G). See also J. L. Hill, m Lang's His- 



284 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

tory of the Willamette Valley, page 487 ; Capt. C. Beudire, annual re- 
])ort of Bureau of Ethnology 1881-'82 ; Paul Schumacher, in Hayden's 
Bulletin, 1877. 

Scattering references also are to be found in Lewis and Clarke; Irv- 
ing's Astoria; Eoss Cox's Adventures; Alexander Ross's Adventures; 
Franchere's Narrative; Parker's Exploring Expedition; Townsend's 
Narrative; Lee and Frost's Ten Years in Oregon; Mission Sketches. 

Mounds, Eartltworks, and Slcelctons. — On the farm of Mr. Ira E. Purdin, 
in Washington County, in the northwestern jjart of the State, are some 
old works which look like a fort, and Indian tradition gives them that 
name. It is part way up a hill in front of which is the W^est Tualatin 
l)lain, and back of which is timber. There is a spring at the bottom of 
the hill; the hill faces the east. On the north side the line and ditch 
are plain, about G3 feet long; on the east side they are also plain, 75 feet 
long; on the west side tow^ards the timber is no line. A curious fact is 
that inside the fort, and parallel with the line on the north side, are 
other lines, and ditches and mounds, first a ridge as large as the north- 
ern one, then a smaller one, then two rows of mounds, another row, 
mainly a ridge, another small ridge, and then irregular mounds which 
bound the fort on the south side ; but there is no line on that side. The 
internal lines run back to the w^est further than the north line, some of 
them (iO feet further, and they extend south further than the end of the 
eastern line 50 or 60 feet. The ridges and mounds are generally from 
2 to 3 feet high, and the largest are about 12 feet in diameter. Mr. Pur- 
din's son and I dug into two of the largest for three or four feet until 
we reached the native clay (which is quite hard), but found nothing. It 
is about 470 feet around it. 

In Linn County are some mounds already referred to, which the his- 
tory of the Willamette Valley says (p. 487) are 7 miles southwest of 
Albanj', and were discovered b;\''Dr. J. L. Hill, of Albany. There are 
cpiite a number of them and they are probably of Indian origin. 

Mr. G. M. Powers, of Shedd's station, Linn County, states that he 
discovered them in 18S3, nine months before Dr. Hill claims to have 
discovered ; and also states that he opened several at that time, and 
has opened twelve in all. He says they are from 50 to 150 feet in diame- 
ter, and from 3 to 8 feet high. Within them have been found several 
skeletons, some, at least, of which were buried with care, and various 
implements, as flints, rudimentary arrow-heads, beaver tusks, bone aw Is, 
a pipe, a spoon, a necklace of coj)per rolls, white beads of bone and 
shell, matting, solid copper rings for arms, green glass beads, stone 
beads, tiat-headed square brass nails, with sharp i)oints, a curious bone 
implement for weaving, a spatula-like bone similar to a i^aper-knife, 
minute glass-bells for ornaments, stone mortars and pestles, knives, 
drills, arrow and spear-heads, bone charms, and imj^lements whose use 
is unknown. No other mounds similar to these are known in the State. 
The skeletons are said to be in a good state of preservation and to be 



STONE AGE OF OKEGON. 285 

somewhat unlike the oidiiiaiy iVaiue-wurks of the liuliansof to-day, be- 
ing without the frontal ridge and having a peculiarly receding forehead, 
yo that the explorer thought that they belonged to a tribe anterior to 
the Calapooias, who liv'cd there wiien the llrst whites came to the 
region. 

Mr. II. A. Chase, in the American Jonrnal of Science and Arts, de- 
scribes some mounds on the coast of soiitliern Oregon. Their position 
and ruins show them to have been ibrts ; their ruins likewise show them 
10 have been houses, and the skeletons which tliey yield shov/ them tol)e 
j^'raves. They are often L^5 or oO feet high. With the skeletons are found 
numerous articles as knives or swordsof blueish or black obsidian. rii>es 
of slate and sandstone with straight tubes. Whistles of thigli-bones 
of birds, pestles and mortars of dark green stone, arrow and heads of 
Jasper, flint and obsidian and ivory (whale's teeth), stone adze-han- 
dles, and one brass hatchet or ad/e which nuist have been more than 
thirty years old. 

In Patton's Valley, Washington Count}', are a number of interesting 
carvings on rocks. They are in sandstones, and fsice the south. The 
most noticeable figures are of four persons. The distance across the 
largest face is inches, and it is about 12 inches long. The smallest is 
about two- thirds that size. The mouth, eyes, nose, and hair, of three 
are very plainly seen, the hair standing out straight all around ; the 
hands of two are i)lain, and also the ribs of one. A lino from the head 
downward in each of three ternjinates at the heart, which is also ])lainly 
visible. One figure is almost obliterated by time. A number of other 
lines are on the rock, which look as if they might have been numbers. 
The outlines of two fishes, with the ribs, can also be seen on the same 
rock. On other rocks near by are other marks, two of which also seem 
to be fishes; one a bow and arrow, another a lodge, and some are 
unknown. There are also many straight irregular marks. 

►Some eight years ago, while summering at a sea-side house, we no- 
ticed skulls amongst the debris used to macadamize the roads in that 
locality, and visiting the spot whence this material was obtained, we 
found the side of a wall left by the workmen, which was at least 8 or 
10 feet above, showing the great depth of deposit. IJones of fish and 
fowl, deer, and animals we could not identify, were also found. What 
we wish most particularly to notice was the frequent presence of human 
bones of children, as well as adults. These bones were often broken, 
sujigestive of cannibalism. 

(Inivcs and cemeteries. — As far as 1 know these have been the most 
prolific places where stone and bone implements have been found. 
Coffin Eock, on the Columbia, received its name because it was an In- 
dian cemetery-. From it, and from another cemetery on SauvieAs Islaml 
north of Portland, Dr. Rafferty obtained a large number of his speci- 
mens. The mounds in Linn County and in southern Oregon described 
l)y Messrs. Chase and Schumacher were also })laces of interment, while 



286 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

near tbe Umatilla lauding is another from wliicli Mrs. Kunzie has ob- 
tained many valuable articles. 

Implements. — We come next to the articles found in various places. 
They are of various descriptions. 

Stone hammers. — These are very different from those on Puget Sound, 
the latter being in the form of a pestle, while the former have a groove, 
and occasionally two or three grooves, or even four, around thorn, where 
a wooden handle of some length was fastened. They look somewhat like 
a Puget Sound sinker for fishing, but are very much larger, while the 
testimony of the old Indians and the battered ends testify* that most oi' 
them were hammers. They vary in weight from 9 ounces to 8^ pouuds, 
in length from 4 to inches, in Avidth from 2^ to 5:^ inches, and in thick- 
ness from If to 4 inches. Occasionally they are found without battered 
ends, either having been unused or used as sinkers in fishing. They 
are rough like beach stones, and were probably originally such stones. 
Some are of sandstone, others of volcanic origin, with some other kinds 
such as might be picked up anj^where. Only one of this kind have I ever 
seen on Puget Sound, and that was longer in proportion to its size than 
those of Oregon. The Oregon ones are very abundant, being seen in 
almost every cabinet of implements, and being found in Washington, 
Clackamas, Multnomah, and Linn Counties, and probably in others. 
Some of the heavier of these fastened to the end of a stick would strike 
a heavy blow either as an implement of common use or as a war club, 
A solitary one is peculiar in that, while it has a single groove running 
around it crosswise, it has also a large number running lengthwise of it 
on three sides, about a half an inch wide, and from one-fourth to three- 
fourths of an inch apart. 

Festles and mortars. — These are not found on the sound, for here are 
no acorjis to pound up. In Oregon they are abundant. Our hammers 
are much like some of their pestles, but some of the latter are quite 
different. A very smooth one, well polished, is of jasper, Sf inches long 
and 4 inches thick at the base, with a good handle, and quite sym- 
metrical. The end of the handle of one has a place for two fingers ; 
the handle of another is in the shape of a seal head, with an eye raised, 
while that of the third looks like a bear, which is large in the middle, 
and said by the Indians to be with young. Another is flat on two sides, 
though the ends are round and the handle end is crooked a little like a 
bow. Another is flat only on one side. Still another seems to have 
been a pestle at the handle end, and a blunt edge at the other. Two or 
three very small ones were probabl\^ used to grind their paint, the 
smallest of which is 3i inches long, and seven-eighths of an inch thick. 
Generally the others vary in length from 5J to 11;^ inches, in thick- 
ness from 2 to 4 inches, and in weight from 1 pound and G ounces to G^ 
pounds. They are generally cylindrical, though a few are a little flat- 
tened. Some are almost straight from one end to the other, with no 
special place for a handle, tapering a little towards the upper end. I 



8T0NE AGE OF OREGON. 287 

saw some forty-five or fifty in all, some of which are of granite, some of 
basalt, and others of volcanic rocks. The smooth and the rongh ones 
are about evenly divided, a few being polished. Most of them are from 
the three counties above named. One from California looks almost ex- 
actly like those of Oregon; a few as if they were common stones from 
the beach of about the right shape, but generally they are worked into 
good shape, some with great labor. 

Those collected by Captain Bendire from John Bay's liiverwere cyl- 
indrical and mostly of compact eruptive rock. Those from the mounds 
of Linn County are described as being from 5 to 13 inches long, some 
beiug nicely polished. They are of a blue, hard gravel. The mortars 
were evidently used both for grinding food and paint, the smaller ones 
for the latter; but they grow in size so gradually as to make it impossi- 
ble to determine accurately the dividing line between the two. There 
were man}' of them of tufa, basalt, and trachyte. The upper surface 
of the bowl is generally round and regular, but sometimes obloug. 
Among the round ones the distance across the bowl varies from 1^ to 
7 inches, and the depth from a quarter of an iucli to 7 inches. The up- 
per surface of the bowl of an oblong one is 7 by 13 inches. The whole 
distance across the upper surface of the stone among the round ones 
varies from 1^ to 10|l inches, though an irregular one is 9 by 17i inches. 
The whole height of the stone varies from seven-eighths to 7 inches, 
though I once saw one in Patton's Valley, Washington County, which 
was 12i inches deep. Its bowl had only a depth of G inches. Their 
weight varies from 3^ ounces to GO pounds. Generally the outside is 
plaiu, but a few have some unmeaning lines on them, and one oblong- 
one has the head of a turtle at one end, with an arm and ten ribs on its 
side. Sometimes the bottoms are quite flat, and sometimes rounding. 
If any stone mortars are found on the sound they are scarce. Those 
from the mounds of Linn County are of various sizes and shapes, one 
being large enough to hold a half gallon. They are the same kind of 
stone as the pestles — a hard, blue gravel. Those from southern Oregon, 
fouud by Mr. Chase, were of a dark green stone. 

Stone ladles. — Mr. Stevens has one of light-red porous tufa, which was 
never used much. The handle is 3 inches loug and 1^ inches thick, 
and the bowl of it is 4 inches long. 

Another beautiful ladle of stone was found by Mr. Schumaker in the 
southwestern part of the State, He also found a boat-shaped vessel 
about 9 inches long, of magnesian mica, which showed strong marks of 
having been exposed to the fire, seemingly for the purpose of cooking- 
food in it. A metate, owned by Mrs. Kunzie, is 19 inches long, 13 inches 
wide, weight 53 i)Ounds, and has three legs. 

Knives. — Those on the sound are of shite, with one edge and small, 
only 2 or 3 inches long; but some have been found in a cache at Oregon 
City of black and striped obsidian, the largest of which was lOi inches 
long and 2^ wide, and a half inch thick, witii double serrated edges. 



288 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

.sharp at both ends, aud very irregular. As this kind of stone is not 
found in the region, they must have imported it, probably from a long 
distance. They had, from appearances, never been used. 

Similar cues were described hj Mr. Chase as being found in southern 
Oregon, too brittle to have been of much practical use, some being 
nearly in tlic shape of a Greek sword, the largest being 14'| inches long, 
li inches broad near one end and If inches near the other, tapering to 
a point at each end, and a quarter of an inch thick. 

Those from the mounds of Linn County are of tiint or jas])er, and only 
from 1 to 2A inches long. Those obtained by Captain Bendire are from 
graves on John Day's Kiver, and are of obsidian. 

Axes, adzes-, and celts. — These are generally small compared with those 
on the sound, or about the same as our smaller sizes. They vary in 
weight from half an ounce to 4 ounces (the largest one on the sound 
which I have seeu weighs 12 ounces, and is 7^ inches long) ; in length 
from live-eights to 2A inches, and in width irom one-half to 2^ inches. 
There were eleven of these, most of which were believed to have come 
from near Oregon City. They are all smooth and of metamorphic rock, 
the same material as those on the sound. In Oregon they are quite 
scarce ; Captain Bendire has, however, found a few on the John l>ay 
River, in eastern Oregon. Handles from whale's teeth for these adzes 
were found by Mr. Chase in the mounds of southwestern Oregon. 

Chisels and tccdgcs. — I have only seen one on the sound of stone, and 
am doubtful of that one, though an old Indian says they were once 
used here. But Dr. Kafiferty has nine whole ones, or parts, about which 
there is no doubt. They mostly come from Sauvie's Island, and are 
generally of hard volc;ariic rock. They vary in weight from 2 pounds 
14 ounces to 5 pounds 11 ounces; in length from GJ to 13| inches, in 
width from 2.^ to 3.], and in thickness from 2J to 2:| inches. The edges 
are shaip, but the stone is thick a short distance from the edge. 1 
know of none from other piirts of t regoii. 

War clubs and sivords. — There are three of these, two of which are 
owned by Dr. Ratlerty, and one by Mrs. Kunzie. One of Dr. Eafferty's 
was found at Fosters, in Clackamas County ; is of serpentine ; 2 H inches 
long, 4inches wide from the club end, tapering towards the handle, and 
rounding towards the other end ; half an inch thick. It weighs 2 
l)ounds aud 1) ounces. It is supposed by some to have been a badge of 
liouor. The other came from Vancouver, Wash., is 17 inches long, 2| 
inches wide, 1 J thick, and weighs G pounds and 14 ounces. The handle 
is sha])ed into the head of some animal. The other end looks as if it 
might have been used for a j)estle. 

Mrs. Kunzie's was found at the Umatilla Landing, and is 22 inches 
long aud If inches wide at the handle, tapering gradualfy to a point at 
the other end. Like the first one mentioned, it has a hole through the 
handle, through which a string was passed to assist in holding it. I 
have but little doubt that these were used in war, as Lewis and Clarke 



STONE AGE OF OREGON. 289 

speak ofseeiug sucli of wood aud iron, while Koss, Cox, and Frauchere 
speak of similar articles, but do not describe the material. I have a 
similar one of stone, and another of copper, obtained on Piiget Sound, 
which Indians now living remember as having been used iu war. Those 
of stone, however, are now very scarce. 

Stone spear and arrow heads. — These are very scarce on the sound ; 
I only saw nine in eight years. The Indians say they did not make 
them. They generally used those of bone. At Oregon City, about half 
a mile below the falls, is a perfect mine of them, which the high water, 
as it washed away the bank, unearthed. 

Mr. Stephens has about thirty-two hundred in his cabinet, and many 
hundred on hand for exchange, besides having sent off very many, and 
other persons have obtained many. The lance and arrow heads run 
into each other, so that it is very difficult to draw the dividing line. 
Some are very small, a half inch long and a quarter wide. In one 
drawer, 22.^ by IGi inches, he has eighteen hundred and thirty-five of 
the smaller ones well arranged so that all can be seen. The longest 
which he has is Gi and the widest 2^- inches. They are of obsidian, 
chalcedony, jasper, and some other varieties of stone, and many are 
very regular and very beautiful. They are all patterns, some being 
double serrated. 

Another manufactory was at the Umatilla Lauding, where Mrs. Kun- 
zie has obtained many, some of them being as beautiful, seemingly, as 
can be made. The chips are now seen all around, though the stone of 
which they were made — much the same as that used at Oregon City — 
must have been brought to both places from a long distance. Others 
have been found iu the mounds of Linn County, very tine, from a quar- 
ter to three-quarters of an inch long, maiul}' of obsidian, but some are 
of carneliau, chalcedony, and jasper. 

In the graves on John Day's Eiver similar ones have also been found by 
Captain Bendire and by Messrs. C'hase and Schumaker iu southwestern 
Oregon. 

Stone sinkers. — Those for fishing are generallj'^ very diiferent from 
ours on the sound. Ours being oval, about 2 by 3 inches, around them 
is fastened bark, to which the lines are tied, but the Oregon sinkers are 
generally flat, more the shaiie of a small grind stone, with the edge 
rounding, as a beach stone. All are evidently^ water- worn, some being 
smooth as water will make them and some being rough. There are 
three kinds of the first style ; some are quite circular and some oblong, 
and each has a hole through it, either in the middle or towards one side, 
from five-sixteenths to five-eighths of an inch in diameter, through 
which the string passed that fastened them to the fishing apparatus. 
Usually this is all the work put upon them, but one has four grooves at 
the edges and another groove from the hole to the edge where strings 
were also tied. These sinkers vary in length from 2i to 8 inches, iu 
H. Mis. 170 19 



290 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

width from 1^ to 6 iiiclie«, iu thickness from three-quarters to If inches, 
and in weight from G ounces to 5 pounds. Some of the smaller ones with 
very perfect holes are said by an old Indian to have been used for draw- 
ing the shaft of an arrow through so as to make it a uniform size, but 
all could not have been used for this purpose, as the holes are too large 
and irregular. These generally belong to northwestern Oregon, in the 
country of the WiHamette and Lower Columbia Rivers, and are quite 
common. 

Of the second kind 1 have seen only two in Mr. Stevens's cabinet, the 
smallest of which was 1{; inches by If inches, has no hole in it, but is 
made more after the style of those on the sound, having two grooves 
around it, one lengthwise and the other crosswise, in which the bark 
string was i^laced to which the line was fastened. 

The third style belongs to eastern Oregon, and have been mainly found 
about the Dalles and Umatilla Landing. They are water-worm stones, 
flat, from 2i- to 4 inches long, from 2 to 3 inches wide, and from a 
half to three-fourths of an inch thick, weighing from 4 to 8 ounces. A 
groove about three-fourths of an inch thick and a quarter of an inch 
deep is made in each end, and by means of this the string wound around 
the sinker was kept in its place, to which this line was fastened. 

ArroiD targets. — Of a somewhat similar shape to the first kind of sink- 
ers, but far more regular, are two targets in Dr. Eafierty's cabinet. 
They are made round as a grindstone, with a hole iu the center nearly 
an inch in diameter. They are from 1^ to 2^ inches thick, and weigh 
from li to 2 pounds 1 ounce. There are none of these on the sound 
as fi^ir as I know. 

Arroic polislier. — Another new article is a stone, now broken at the 
base, 3^ inches long, 2 inches in diameter at the base, cylindrical but 
not rounding at the top, and weighing 7 ounces. It is of tufa, and came 
from the Cascades. Around it run six grooves leugthwise, through 
which the old Indians say arrows were drawn so as to iiolish them. 
Dr. Raflerty likewise owns this. Mr. Stevens also has a stone which 
lierhaps may have been used for a similar purpose. It is oblong, 3 
inches long by IJ wide, and three-fourths of an inch thick. One side is 
round, the other flat, with a groove one-eighth of an inch deep on the 
flat side, running lengthwise of the stone. 

* Hide dressers. — Most of these came from Dalles and eastern Oregon, 
and are very small and much more worked than those of the sound. A 
Puget-sounder picks up almost any stone of 2 or 3 pounds weight, 
splits a stick for a handle, puts the stone in it, and ties it there. But 
none of those from Dalles weigh over 4 ounces, and the largest is 3| 
inches long. Two found were three-eighths of an inch wide and three- 
fourths thick, and the smallest is more than an inch shorter and a half 
inch narrower. They are smooth, and the edge all around is ground 
somewhat sharp. 

Stone scrapers have also been found in the mounds of Linn County, 



STONE AGP: of OREGON. 2J)1 

Mr. Stevens bus also a hide dresser, made from a waliiis tusk, about 
15 inches long. It came from the Malheur country, in eastern Oregon, 
but evidently made a western tour before it reached that region. 

Pipes. — Dr. liaftert}'^ has two of these, and both arc of patterns similar 
to those on the sound. One is like the common American pipe of (tlay- 
stoue, 2^- inches long, weighing If ounces, and came from Sauvie's Island, 
or Oregen City. The other is of the same weight, from The Dalles, of 
light basaltic rock, aud of the grindstone shape, with the bowl and i)lace 
for the pipe-stem at rightangles to each other. It is 2 inches in diameter, 
with lines and dots on the side. 

Mrs. Kunzie, however, has obtained the most valuable collection of 
these, some being straight, with carvings on them. They are from 3 to 
C inches long, and the heaviest w^ere about 8 ounces. Some of the most 
valuable of these were found near her residence. 

Captain Bendire also found one of these straight ones, which was ob- 
tained from an Indian grave on John Day's Hiver. It is of gray sand- 
stone, shaped much like an ordinary straight cigar-holder, 3 inches long 
and 1 inch in diameter at the larger end. I have not seen a straight 
I)ipe in tlie Willamette Valle}" or on Puget Sound. 

Dr. Hill found a single pipe in one of the mounds in Linn County, 
I»nt I do not know its shape. It is oh inches long, l.j wide at the top, 
and 1 inch at the bottom. Mr. Chase also found some pipes of slate and 
sandstone in the mounds of southwestern Oregon with straight tubes. 

Plates. — Dr. liafferty has two of these and Mr. Stevens one, but I have 
seen none on Puget Sound. One of the former came from Sauvie's 
Island. It was used for baking bread upon, is 12^ inches long, 10 
inches wide, and varies in thickness from l}r to 2 inches. It is of light 
sandstone, and weighs 5 pounds 7 ounces. The depth of depression 
between the ends is three-fourths of an inch, but there is no depression 
between the sides. 

His other is irregular, but somewhat diamond-shaped, oh by Ih 
inches, with a depression of about one-half an inch. 

The one belonging to Mr. Stevens is circular, about 5j- inches in 
diameter, the dish being one-fourth of an inch deep. I do not feel cer- 
tain, however, that this is a plate, as it is hollowed out on both sidcy 
ami is quite thick, 1^ inches. It came from Dalles. 

Aids and drills. — These are of two kinds, bone and stone. Bone ones 
were common on Puget Sound, but 1 have not seen any stoiie one from 
that region. Those of bone are about the same size as those on the 
Sound, 2 or 3 inches long. Those of stone have been found at Oregon 
City, Umatilla Landiiig, and in the mounds of Linn County. They are 
ibnt, jasper, or some very hard rock, and are usually from 1 to 2^ inches 
long. Some of I hem have a handle, not far from an inch long, at right 
angles with the drill ; some have none. 

Xeedlcs.~lA\i(i the drills and awls, these are of both stone and bone. 
Those of bone were the most common. Mr. Stevens has two, 3 and o 



292 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

inches long", with eyes ouefouith and three-eighths of im inch in diameter. 
Those found by Mr. Powers in the mounds of Linn County are about 
the same size, some of which are highly polished. A stone needle for 
making nets does not belong to the Sound. A single one was found 
at Sauvie's Island about 7^ inches long, 1 inch thick, cylindrical, 
smooth, of volcanic rock, weighing of ounces, blunt at both ends, with 
a hole nearly the fourth of an inch in diameter, about an inch from one 
end to receive the twine. It belongs to Dr. Ilafferty. 

Game stones. — These also do not belong to the Sound. There are 
seven in all in Dr. Ealferty's collection, two of which are almost perfect 
spheres, one of which is 3^ inches in diameter and weighs 3 pounds 0^ 
ounces, and the other is 13 inches in diameter, weighs about 70 pounds, 
and came from Cascades. Both of these have dots or holes in them, 
which are said to be the owner's cue. The others are smaller and less 
perfect, with uo marks on them, the smallest weighing only lOi ounces. 
They were thrown and rolled into certain holes, but it is difficult now 
to determine certainly all the rules of the game. 

Calendar stone. — Mrs. Kunzie has a calendar stone, which is 3 feet 
long and weighs 30 pounds. On one side of it are marks which show 
the number of months in the year, and on the other those which show 
the number of days in the mouth. 

Whistlers, of the thigh bones of birds, were found by Mr. Chase m the 
mounds of southwestern Oregon. 

A bone spatula was found by Dr. Ilill in a mound in Linn County. 

A iceaving implement of bone was also found by the same person at 
the same place. 

Money or icampum of various kinds has been found in consiilerable 
quantities. Mrs. Kunzie has several strings of these, most of which 
were found near her home. They are composed of shells of various 
kinds, some of them being the dentalia and antelope teeth. 

Beads. — Mrs. Kunzie has several necklaces of stone beads, which are 
well polished and of various symmetrical shapes — round, oblong, cylin- 
drical, and square — some of them weighing 2 ounces each and 21 inches 
long. A few have also been found b^^ Mr. Powers in the mounds of 
Linn County, but they are scarce. They are made of a kind of blue- 
stone which much resembles glass. There is a ledge of this kind of 
stone near Mount Jefferson, from which it is su])poscd the Indians ob- 
tained that from which they manufactured these articles. Bone beads 
were also found at the same i^lace, which were made of the leg and 
wing bones of birds. They were only found on the skeletons, around 
the neck and hips, and sometimes in the hands. 

Beads of Veuetian glass have also been found by Mrs. Kunzie, but 
they were probably introduced by the early traders, as were also the glass 
beads, brass bells, necklace of copper rolls, and coppers rings for the 
arms, found in the mounds in Linn County by Dr. Hill. 

Animals, etc. — Stones in the shape of animals seem to be peculiar 



STONE AGE OP OREGON. 293 

likewise to Oregon — some for use and others apparently with no func- 
tion. One from Yaucouver in the sliape of a bear and another from 
Sanvie's Island with a seal head have been referred to among the ])estles. 

A turtle from East Portland has been mentioned among the mor- 
tars, and the heads of some animals undetermined among the war 
clubs. 

There is also a squirrel head broken oft" from the body, or whatever im- 
plement it was attached to. from Vancouver, now 2^ inches long, 2 inches 
thick, and weighing half a pound. Dr. Uafferty owns this, and Mr. 
Stevens has another, which came from Eagle Creek. Like the last, it 
is broken oft' from whatever it was attached to, but a good share of the 
body still remains. The body is about 3 inches thick one way by 2J 
inches the other, the neck being 2 by i'^ inches. 

Birds. — Dr. Kafferty has a bird from the Cascades, of basaltic rock, 
G| inches long, 3:^ wide from tip of one wing to tip of the other, about 
2 inches thick, and weighing 1 jiound 10 ounces. Mr. Stevens has a 
bird head which came from near the Dalles. It was broken oft' from 
something, perhaps a hammer, and is quite perfect. It is now about 3J 
inches long and 2 inches thick. 

Mrs. Kunzie has a stone eagle wliich came from the Dalles. It is SA 
inches high when standing on its feet. 

Feet.— Dr. Kafferty has two human feet, or moccasins, in stone, one 
from Oregon City, 9:^ inches long, 3^ high, and 2^ thick, weighing 
oil pounds; the other, an inch less in length, 1| inches high, 2| wide, 
weighing 2:^ pounds. 

Baboons. — He also has a baboon with the eyes, forehead, and nostrils 
plainly marked; it is G.J inches long, 4 inches high, weighs G pounds 
10 ounces, and is of volcanic rock. Mr. Steel, of Portland, has another 
well-made baboon, which is 7f inches long, 17^ inches around the body, 
and weighs 13i pounds. The eyes are an inch in diameter; it is 2§ 
inches between the center of the two eyes, 4 inches from the eyes to 
the end of the nose, and 2 inches across the nose. He obtained it from 
the Dalles and has traced it some distance further east of the Cascade 
Mountains. Mrs. Kunzie has another of these stone baboons which 
likewise came from eastern Oregon, and Mr. Stevens has a fourth, very 
nearly the same size as that of Dr. Rafiferty's, and all of them seem to 
be of similar stone. Where the Indians of this region obtained the 
idea of such perfect baboons is a mystery; or were the stones, in their 
present shape, imported ? 

Horse head. — Mr. Stevens has the head and neck of a horse, the head 
being not farfrom 15 inches long and the neck of proportionate length, 
but both are slim. He has also a small one. The metate already men- 
tioned as belonging to Mrs. Kunzie is thus described by Mr. S. A. Clarke 
in the Oregon and Washington Farmer. "Upon first examination it 
strikes one as an Assyrian or Egyptian carving, the feature and style 
of ornament being much nearer those wonderfid Oriental relics of an- 



294 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

tiquity thau our Nortliwestern ludians would be thought capable 
of. The use of this iuterestiug- relic was probably for a grinding bowl, 
though its grand sphinx-like form suggests a nobler use. This great 
curiosity is cut from reddish-gray granite, and would require a block a 
foot square for its dimensions. Its front is a human face, distinct, dig- 
nified, and in some respects even grand in outline. It is carved with a 
skill wliich could have copied nature, yet there is no point of resem- 
blance between the face and that of any modern Indians. Its brow is 
broad and low, and the wide-curving eyebrows suggest the resemblance 
to rams' horns, which Assyrian images have also. The nose is almost 
Grecian, except that the nostrils are Avider and the chin and lower jaw 
are the reverse of Indian physiognomy. Only the mouth bears any 
resemblance to our Indian carving. In this respect there is a slight 
leaning towards the style of some of the Alaska totem faces. On each 
side, above and behind the ear, is a protuberance like the fold over the 
old Egyptian statues, and a claw, like an arm, extends from the edge of 
the bowl to the side of the throat, its claws being nearly under the chin 
of the figure. The hair is not cut in detail. It seems to be in a straight 
mass without braiding or ornament. The whole head is well propor- 
tioned, and is about life size." This was found in the Indian cemetery 
at tlie Umatilla landing. 

Idols. — Images in stone and shell have also been found which were 
]irol)ably made for religious purposes and not as a mere work of art, 
as I have seen the ludians on Puget Sound within twelve years actually 
worshiping an idol made from wood in the shape of the upper part of a 
man. Mrs. Kunzie has one sjilendid one which came from near the 
Dalles. It represents the head, neck, and most of the body of a man, 
is 17^ inches high, 27 inches in circumference, and weighs G4 pounds. 

Siie has another which is also in the image of the upper part of a per- 
son, and came from the same region, which is Cinches high and 3 inches 
in diameter, and she has found near her residence most of the pieces 
of an idol of shell, which is well carved, and a totem post of black stone, 
21 inches long, and which weighs 11 pounds. 

Dr. Rafierty has another which was unlmried at Sauvie's Island. It 
is 10 inches long, S inches wide, while the eyes are about 2 inches in 
diameter, and it has a mouth and other lines on it. 

Mr. Stevens has the head of a small one, which seems to be the face 
of a person, but broken off from whatever it was attached to ; the neck 
shows that it was some four-legged animal. The face is verj- regular. 
He has also some small circular stones from 1 to 2 inches in diameter 
with various markings on them — lines, diamonds, angles, and i)arts of 
circles; one has a human face on it — which I presume were intended for 
religious purposes. 

Unknoicn implements. — Dr. Rafferty has three of these; one, an egg- 
shaped stone of quartz, but rather sharp at the ends, very regular and 
well worked, 7 inches long, 3;^ inches wide, and 2? thick, weighing 3^ 
pounds. 



STONE AGE OF OREGON. 295 

Mr. Stevens has one similar to it, wbicli is S^ inches long and 3J in 
diameter. Dr. Kafierty has another 2i inches long- and five-eighths 
inch thick, weighing half an ounce, with three small holes through it, 
and another which looks a little like a great arrow- head, only cylindri- 
cal, one end looking as ifit had been fastened into a stick, the other 
being somewhat sharp. It is 8i inches long, and 2,[ inches thick near 
its base. 

Mr. Stevens has another which is some wliat egg-shaped, about 2.^ 
inches long, and 2h inches in diameter at the largest place. It is (luite 
regular in its form, and there are two small grooves around it. It came 
from the Columbia Kiver near the Dalles. 



CHARM STONES. 

NOTES ON THE SO-CALLED " PLUMMETS " OR SINKERS. 

By Dr. L. G. Yates. 

Several years ago an article appeared in the American Naturalist 
(November, 1872), by J. G. Henderson, on the subject of " plummets," in 
which, after describing and figuring several specimens found at various 
places, he offered some conjectures as to their uses, six of which uses 
he enumerates as probable. 

(1) As slung-shots. 

(2) As sinkers for fishing-tackle. 

(3) In playing some game. 

(4) As sacred implements in performing some religious ceremonies^ 

(5) As personal ornaments. 

(6) As plummets and levels. 

After giving his reasons at some length in each of these supposed 
uses he dismisses all except the last, which he decides were the uses to 
which tliey were put. In a note appended to the article. Prof. F. W. 
Putnam states that "he has considered the implements generally classed 
under the names plummets and sinkers to represent to a greater or less 
extent, according to size, material, shape, and fiuish, first, pestles; 
second, sinkers; third, spinning weights; fourth, ornaments." 

Mr. Henderson gives a number of localities where these implements 
have been found. My attention was particularly attracted by the state- 
ment that "about ten years ago one of tiiese implements was found 
under remarkable circumstances in Woodbridge County, Cal.;" there 
being no such county in California. 

I commenced an article on this subject at that time, but press of other 
matters and a desire to obtain as much reliable information as possible 
have prevented its completion. 

During the years that have elapsed since the inception of this article 
I have noted the various theories advanced by diiferent writers as to 
the uses of these singular implements. 

A great many have written on the subject, and all have accepted 
some one or more of the various theories projected. 

Foster, in his Prehistoric Races of the United States, classes the 
plummet-shaped stones under the head of " weights which may have 
been used in the process of weaving," and figures three varieties of 
them (see Figs. 31, «, fo, c, p. 230), Prehistoric Races, as " weights to 
keep the threads taut." 

296 



CHARM STONES, OR PLUMMETS. 297 

Thomas Ewbauk, in bis Life in Brazil, published in 185G, figures two 
implements which might be classed with thoseunder consideration. I 
have copied from his illustration on page 451 of his appendix (see Fig. 
A). He says : " It resembles an egg in shape, is of black, hard, smoothly 
polished stone, used for working metal." 

On page 464 of the same appendix is figured an implement exactly 
like some of our so called plummets (see Fig. B), of which he says: 
'• Which, from the notch cut round its pointed end, may liave been used 
as a plumb-line or as a spindle." In the Third Annual Keport of the 
Bureau of Ethnology, by J. W. Powell, director, published in 1884, on 
pages 509 and 510, are descriptions of implements in a collection from 
Peru, "neatly made sinkers wrapped in corn husks and sinkers of gray 
slate, shaped somewhat like a cigar, with one or more grooves partially 
encircling the end. These were wrapi)ed in corn husks." 

The figure given on page 510 represents the ordinary so-called plum- 
mets, except that there are two grooves on the smaller end and one on 
the larger. These grooves only partially encircle the implement and 
are all on the same side. 

Abbott, in his Primitive Industry, very properly separates the plum- 
mets and sinkers, devoting one chapter to each. 

In the chapter on plummets he gives illustrations of several imple- 
ments ibund in Illinois, Ohio, New Jersey, Massachusetts, and Maine. 
These are nearly identical in general form and outline with those found 
on the Pacific coast. He says: " "While the general name given to the 
group is convenient, and in a measure descriptive of their appearance, 
it has but little reference to their uses. It has been remarked that their 
principal use as plummets may be questioned, as there are far too many 
of them found and of too great variation in size to lead us to infer that 
they were used mainly for that puri)ose." 

He remarks of Fig. 21G, which he states " is a characteristic specimen 
of the New England plummet of about the maximum size: Whether 
it should be classed as a pestle or not can not be readily determined, 
but from the fact that unquestionable pestles are by no means infre- 
quent in the same localities, and also for the reason that the larger 
plummet-shaped implements are of too soft a material and seldom 
exhibit signs of use at their rounded end." 

In his chapter on sinkers, he seems to be very uncertain as to whether 
the Indians were acquainted with the methods of catching- fish with nets, 
and the probabilities are that the Europeans first taught the use of nets 
to the aborigines. If such is the case, then the " plummets" were cer- 
tainly not net sinkers. 

As for the great size of the larger ones being no objection to their 
use as sinkers, it may be doubted if they (the Indians) knew how or 
cared to fish with nets. 

They had their certain seasons for fishing, when they knew whereto 
find them and how to catch them. At other times they would be in 
other localities, hunting other food materials in their season. 



298 PAPEllS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

A few of the grooved stoues and uotcLed pebbles classed as un- 
doubted net sinkers bave been found in California. Fig. 22 represents 
one from Bodega, Cal. Might not some of them have been used as war- 
ckibs or hammers "] And were not the grooves made for the purpose of 
attaching handles of withes ? Their shape would indicate their use in 
some of their manufactures, whereas a "net sinker" would not require 
to be made after any particular pattern ; anj-thiug possessing the requi- 
site weight, and of any form that could be attached to the net, would 
have answered the purpose. 

If the Indians did not fish with nets, these "uudoubted net siukers" 
•were not "net sinkers," and if used in fishiugat all they were line sinkers. 
The Indian Eafael, who will be referred to hereafter, when shown the 
implement represented by Fig. 22, said that it was used as a line sinker 
for fishing. 

In Explorations of the Aboriginal Remains of Tennessee, by Joseph 
Jones, M. D., published by the Smithsonian Institution under the head 
of " Stones employed for mechanical purposes," is a figure and descrip- 
tion of a plummet of black magnetic irou, highly polished, with a hole 
through the upper end 5 and he supposes that this, together with a 
number of similar implements which have been found in Middle Ten- 
nessee in the cultivated soil, and also in the stone graves, were used in 
spinning threads and in weaving. He says : " It has been suggested 
that they may also have been employed as weights in fishing." 

Ilad they been used in spinning and weaving, as Dr. Jones suggests, 
they would probably have been made of uniform size and shape. 

Dr. Charles Ran, in The Archa'ological Collection of the United 
States National Museum, published by the Smithsonian Institution, 
illustrates a variety of stone implements under the name of " pendants 
and sinkers," which name, he says, have been given to a class of sym- 
metrically-shaped and well-finished objects, which were evidently de- 
signed for suspension, though it is not quite certain for what special 
purpose they were used. On account of their shape and the pains be- 
stowed upon their production they have been classed anu)ng aboriginal 
ornaments. Yet the former inhabitants of this country devoted much 
time and labor to the manufacture of objects of a useful character, and 
hence it appears not improbable that the articles in question were, in 
part at least, weights for fishing lines. 

After a short description of a number of the implements figured, 
ascribing to them several uses, such as net sinkers or weights, orna- 
. ments or amulets and perforated net sinkers, he says, in reference to 
net weights (page 27) : " Some are roundish stones of various sizes, 
either worked or left in their natural state, and grooved around the 
middle for fastening the strings or thongs by which they were con- 
nected with the nets. - - - It is not always easy to distinguish 
specimens of this description from grooved hammer-heads." C. C. Ab- 
bott, in Yol. VII, Reports of U. S. Geological Survey west of the one 



CHARM STONES, OR PLUMMETS. 299 

himdredtli Meridiai), suggests the possibility of some of the so-called 
"plummets" having beeu encased in sklu and fastened to a tlexible 
handle, thereby making a war club that, properly wielded, would liavc 
been a formidable weapon. 

In the absence of all information that might throw light on its use, 
we consider it best to class this specimen (referring to his l^^ig. CG), al- 
though wanting the all-important groove, with the preceding plummet- 
shaped stones. On page 195, of the same re|)ort, a photograph of a 
series of "weights" collected by Mr. Schumacher in various localities 
of California is mentioned. The specimens are all labelled "spindle- 
whorls" or "weights for distention of thread." On the same page is 
figured a specimen of a roughly ground iuiplement nuide from a frag- 
ment of coral rock, apparently pecked or hammered into shape. This 
is also called a "weight." 

In a note by F. W. Putnam, on pages lOG and 197 of same report, men- 
tion is made of numerous articles of stone, which there seems to bo 
little doubt were used as sinkers, and by their shape are allied to the 
implements Dr. Abbott has described on the preceding pages. 

Two of these are of great interest, as they still show the method by 
which they were fastened to lishing-nets or lines - - - by means 
of asphaltum. This asphaltum luis preserved a portion of the twine 
which was around each end of the stone, and it is evident that ia this 
way the string was held in place on the sinker, which was thus easily 
attached to the line or net. 

The most recent article on this subject, and which probably comes 
the nearest to giving the explanation of the uses of these implements, 
is by H. W. Henshaw, published in the American Journal of ArchjBol- 
ogy, in which article, besides giving a synopsis of the various theo- 
ries advanced by different writers, he gives as he claims " a direct and 
circumstantial account of their use," which he obtained from the Santa 
Barbara Indians. 

Mr. Henshaw, in commenting upon Mr, Henderson's article in the 
American Naturalist, says: "In reference to the fourth possible use 
given in said article, (viz, sacred implements), that it is oidy a ]>ossi- 
bility, there being no evidence whatever from which to draw such an 
inference." Though admitted to be but a guess, it is remarkable how 
accurate it proves to be, for in this paragrai)h we have exactly the use of 
these plummet-like stones as explained by the Santa Barbara Indians, 

The moment these stones were shown to these Indians I was told 
that they were medicine or sorcery stones. 

" The sorcerer arranged twenty of these stones, tlie ])roper number, 
in a circle, T)ushed them violently together, sprinkk'd water over them 
and smoke issued from them. - - . At San Buenaventura sub- 
stantially the same account was received. Here it was said twelve was 
the number required by the medicine men, exclusive of a center stone 
of different character. The center stone shown to me, called Tu cait, is 



300 PAPERS EELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

a flattisli roiiml, beach-worn pebble of quartzite, mnvorked, and staiued 
black witli iron. It was, as I was told, a peculiar power in rain iuakin<r, 
and as an evidence of its power, tlie Indian held it for a few moments 
tightly grasped* in bis bands, when moisture was visible on it, caused 
by contact with the moist hand. " 

The moisture was pointed to as visible evidence of its rain- making- 
power. 

The nse of the medicine stones among the San Buenaventura In- 
dians was as follows : 

The twelve sorcery stones were arranged in a circle close together; 
in the center was arranged the Tu-cait ; Ghia, the generic name for 
seed-meal, together with down from the breast of the white goose, was 
then spread over the stones, and then red ochre spread over the whole. 
Around this a dance was held, while three old men sang, keeping time 
with rattles. 

This or similar ceremonies were observed for curing the sick, bring- 
ing rain, putting out fires in the mountains, calling fish up the streams, 
and when war was to be made. 

Several other stones of various shapes were shown to me, some in 
their natural condition ; one a piece of iron-pyrites, another resembling 
a natural concretion. 

Those of the third class were fashioned with care and were about 4 
inches long, somewhat tapering in shape and encircled with several 
rings; to all of these mysterious properties were assigned, and it is 
probable that many other kinds were formerly in nse. As nearly as 
could be gathered, the pear-shaped "sinker" variety was considered 
the most efficient in sorcery. 

Why the sorcery stones were givQii their peculiar shape it is not easy 
to understand, and the solution of this problem must be left to the final 
consideration of those more ingenious in such speculations than the 
writer. 

J. P. McLean, in the Mound Builders on page 103, figures an imple- 
ment of hematite which he classes under the head " pendants," and re- 
marks : " It may have been used as a plummet or net sinker." 

In the year 1885 Mrs. Packard, a visitor to Santa Barbara, discovered 
an interosting relic in the old Indian burial-ground at Bos Pueblos, 
about 18 miles west from Santa Barbara, near the coast. This relic, one 
of the so called " plummets," is made of specular iron ore. (See Pig. 20.) 
This, so far as my observation goes, is the first of the kind found on this 
coast; it resembles a specimen of the same material found near Quincy, 
111., figured on page 232 of Abbott's Primitive Industry. 

I know of no ore of this character liaving been found in this part of 
the country, and it is my opinion that the greater portion of the charm 
Hones found on or near the coast were manufactured by tribes living in 
the interior, and were articles of barter obtained from tribes who excelled 
in making the finest and most potent charms. 



CHARM .STONES, OK I'J.UMMIOT.S. 301 

Fi^-. 8 re])reseiits an implement found in Napa County, Cal., and is 
made of auriferous slate containing a streak of free gold; it had i)rol)- 
ably been brought from the Sierra Nevada Mountains, and 1 had noticed 
that the greater portion of the charm-stones found appear to be made 
of rocks 7iot found in the localities where the implements were used ; 
and the fact that many of them are of fine workmanship and rare ma- 
terial would go to show that they were uot used for ordinary purposes. 

During the past twenty years the writer has at various times endeav- 
ored to ascertain from the aborigines the uses to which the so-called 
l)luniniets or sinkers were originally put. 

Most of the investigations iu this line have been made iu tiie central 
and northern portions of California, and the conclusions arrived at are 
that in tJio.s-e localities they were not used as sinkers or plummets. 

Mr. llenshaw says : "On calling the attention of an Indian to the ring 
pecked near the extremity of one of the medicine stones, he said he did 
not know its purpose, but that the stones so encircled were considered 
to be more i)Otent than the others. In reply to my question, ' Why such 
a stone could not be used as a sinker to a fishing-line ?' a Santa Barbara 
Indian replied that he never saw one used in this way, and added, of 
his own accord, ' Why should we make stones like that, when the beach 
supplies sinkers in abundance ? Our sinkers were beach stones, and 
when we lost one we picked up another.' " 

In Ilios, City and Country of the Trojans, by Dr. Henry Schliemann 
in 1880, which I have just been reading, page 430, is figured a "per- 
forated object of green gabbro rock, probably a weight, which closely 
resembles some of our perforated charm-stones," and on page 437 sev- 
eral "sling-bullets of hematite or loadstone," which the author remarks, 
" ai-e all well polished, and, with the rude implements which the Trojans 
had at their disposal, it must have been tremendous work to cut and 
smooth hard stone into the cylindroid shape of the pellets before us." 

In fact, labor must have had very little or no value at that time, 
for otherwise it is impossible to imagine that whole months should 
have been wasted on the manufacture of one bullet which was lost as 
soon as it was slung. It will be seen that Dr. Schliemann uses the same 
argument in relation to the uses of these implements that the writer 
used in the ilrst writing of this article, several years ago, relative to the 
use of charm-stones as "sling-shots or weights for fishing nets or lines," 

lie also refers to several such bullets in the British Museum from 
Assyria and Camirus, made of hematite, loadstone, and granite. 

Having given the various theories which have been advanced by dif- 
ferent writers on this subject, we will proceed to take up and consider 
the six different uses which might have been made of these imjdements. 

(1) As sling-shots. — It is not probable that the Indians would have 
spent so much time and labor in the manufacture of these implements 
for such purposes when the beds and streams and other places would 
furnish abundance of water- worn pebbles. 



302 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

TLo ludiaus of Lake Coimty, Cal., now inaimfacture balls of clay, sun- 
dried, which as sliug-stoues furnish very effective missiles for killing 
ducks and other small game. 

Stones intended for use as sling-stones would probably have been 
made of more uniform size and shape, Avhereas the so-called plummets 
are remarkably variable in these particulars, for in this state the artists 
seem to have taxed their ingenuity in making each and every one dif- 
ferent in form from all the others, as scarcely any two are exactly alike, 
as may be seen in Fig. lo, which shows the spheroid shape of one ex- 
treme and Fig. the spindle shape of the other extreme, between which 
all imaginable forms aud variations occur. 

Figs. 1 or 6 would not be convenient or, in any case, practical imple- 
ments for such purposes. 

(2) As sinkers for fishing tackle. — The arguments used against the 
probable use of these implements as sling-stones will apply with the 
same force against their use as sinkers. Stones which would answer 
the purpose equally well can be picked up when wanted for use, and it 
is not probable that they would have burdened themselves with extra 
weight while traveling from i)lace to place. 

(3) For playing some game. — The varied forms of these implements pre- 
clude the probabilit}' of their having been used for such purpose, as all 
games requires pieces of more or less similarity of form and size, while, 
as before stated, it is rare to find two of the same size or shape, aud the 
localities in which they are usually found are not places where games 
would have been i)layed. 

(4) As sacred implements in the performance of some religious ceremony. — 
This theory is the nearest approach to the true use of these implements. 

(5) As personal ornaments. — This theory is unreasonable and requires 
no further refutation than that their weight and size would preclude 
such uses. They were sometimes suspended about the j^erson for pur- 
poses to be shown hereafter. 

(G) As plummets and levels. — This theory is still more far-fetched and 
untenable than the last, so far as California Indians are concerned. 
Tribes that build no dwellings other than temporary huts, and hastily 
constructed at that, would certainly have no more occasion to usei)lum- 
mets and levels than a wild Hottentot. These so-called plummets are 
nearly always found in low, marshy jilaces near creeks, along the sea 
shore, and among the wild, rocky recesses of the mountains. 

These localities would hardly be selected as places to erect permanent 
buildings, even if they had ever had the knowledge of such. Again, 
these so-called plummets would not have been used for the purpose 
some have claimed, that is, suspended by a string and used to determine 
perpendicular lines. They are not the form most convenient for this 
purijose, and if suspended by a string would not hang i)erpendicularly. 

Implements like Figs. 1, 8, and 10 might have been used for such a 
purpose, providing the lower ends had been poiqtQd, which they are 



CHARM STONE8, OK I'LUMiMETS. 303 

not. One like Fig", t) would have atiswoied the iJiirpose Iiad it been 
perforated at the top. 

!ii rel'ereiice to Trot". F. W. Piitiiaui'^ note to j\lr. Henderson's article, 
1 am sorry to differ with so learned an anti«piarian writer as my es- 
teemed friend, but certainly none of his theories will lit our California 
Indian habits and customs. 

He accepts some theories which we luive already dis(uissed, with the 
additional one that they were used as s[)iir.iing^ weights. This we can 
easily dispose of, as the Indians of this locality use<l no textile fabrics 
thnt required si)inning or weax'ing, their toilet being less elaborate than 
that of the Georgia militia colonel, which consisted of epaulets and a 
paper collar. 

When not nude, the Indians used skins of wild animals for clothing, 
or tules tied in rows on strings <^>f sinew or bark, worn as aprons or 
skirts. 

As to these implements being used as pestles, there are very few of 
the so-called plummets that could have been used for such a purpose. 
It is generally an easy matter to distinguish between the two, and ref- 
erence to Figs, 5, G, 7, etc., will show that they could not be mistaken 
for pestles, as the lower end is generally pointed. 

Fig. 1 is perhaps the oldest known specimen of this class of imple- 
ments. It was found with several other curious and unique implements 
under Table Mountain, in this State, and under some liOO feet of basalt. 
It was made of a translucent carbonate of lime linely linished. 

In a catalogue of xV Collection of Minerals of A. Dohrmann, pub- 
lished by S. H. & n. Chapman, of riiiladelphia, 188G, we tind Xo. 
113i, slung shot or sinker, described as an oval stone, with deep groove 
around the edge ; limestone, found 30 feet below the surface in a gravel 
bed, Camptonville, Yuba County, Cal. No. 1135, plumb-bob ; shape same 
as those used b^" masons, pierced and grooved at end; serpentine; per- 
fect and very rare; found in Alameda County, 40 feet below the surface. 

Having endeavored to show what these implements were ;?o^ used for, 
we will try to show what their real use was. 

The majority of surviving Indians do not seem to know anything 
about this. One reason for this is that they had supejstitious notions 
tliat these stones were dangerous and the sight of them would cause 
death. Another weighty reason was, that the missionaries used their 
utmost endeavors to eradicate the use and knowledge of all their tra- 
ditions and religious ceremonies. 

Several years ago the writer had an opportunity to interview a very 
old Indian chief of the Napa tribe, and one of the two sole survivors, mak- 
ing most of the opportunity by laying in a supply of eatables, tobacco, 
and sweet cider. He stated to me that the plummet-shaped implements 
were used as charm stones; that they were used by being suspended by 
a cord from the end of a pole, one end of which was stuck into the bank 
of a creek in such a manner as to leave the stone suspended over the 



304 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

wuter where the Indians intended to fish. At other places they were 
suspended at })oints in the mountains favorable for hunting. 

This will account for the asphaltum and string on the implements, 
which, Professor Putnam says, "show the method by which they were 
fastened to fishing nets or lines." 

The IS^apa Indians also stated that they were sometimes laid upon 
ledges of rocks on high i)eaks, with the belief that, owing to their ])ecul- 
iar form and some occult power which they possessed, they traveled in 
the night through the water to drive the fish up the creeks to favorite 
fishing places, or through the air to drive the land game up towards 
certain peaks and favorite hunting grounds. 

The peculiar pear-shaped form was given them to enable them to 
cleave through the air and water. He also stated they were used in 
time of war, as they were supposed to travel about at night for the pur- 
pose of worrying the enemies of their tribe. 

In a recent interview with one Eafael Solaris, the last male represent- 
ative of the Tsa-niala tribe, who occupied a village called Tsok-to-no 
Ha-moo, near the Santa Ynez Mission, Santa Barbara County, I ob- 
tained direct information which substantiates my views as to the uses of 
these imideinents. Pafael at first disclaimed any knowledge of the use 
of the so-called plummets; but when shown a perforated one he recog- 
nized it and said it was worn suspended from the neck for defense, and 
to make the wearer impervious to arrows, and that in time of war any 
one biting this implement was rendered invisible to his enemies, and 
enabled to travel with safety. 

The medicine men, after fasting one month and abstaining from the 
use of fatty substances, after drinking several cups of the decoction of a 
herb which they called Tol-wach-ie, were in proper condition to make 
use of the charm stones. This herb is common in our mountains, and 
has a profusion of white flowers and spiny seed-pods. The whole 
plant — root, leaf, and flower — is poisonous, j)roducing an abnormal condi- 
tion in the person using it. 

In a still more recent interview with the host of the Tchii-mah In- 
dians I obtained the words and translation of a song which refers to 
this subject. 

The meter and music are Schu-may (or Ohuma) ; the words are in the 
Mishkhon-aka, or language of the Ventura Indians. It is called ^ti- 
toicen cush. 

SOXG. 

Kii-yu-wa-will le 

I am going to tell 

Le-le ni-mu-stu me sip-posh 

Uneasy nij- heart 

Su-mus il. Ka-teush-wen 

Charm stone I have not. 

Lali-o-li-o 1 wen-new 

I am sad. 



ARCTI/T^OLOGY OF MICTTOACIIAN. P}0[) 

fii relation to Fi<;-s. .'>'2 aiuK);}, Juan do rFosiis, a Voninra- Tiidian, stat<'(l 
that tlio iniplcmeuts whicli tlioso li.!J^uies represent were idols. Feathers 
were tied on cacli end, the idol placed in a basket or similar recei)ta- 
cle in the house of the medicine ma,n, when tlfe peoi)le who were desir- 
ous of obtaining favors from the sjiirit or i)ower attributed to the idol 
threw in seeds and other offerinfijs to the receptacle until the idol was 
covered uj). Tt is needless to say the olTerings were ai)propriated by 
the medicine man. 

Jasto, a Santa Barbara Indian, stated that the charm stones were 
sometimes arranged or scattered in various places ; those without per- 
forations were covered up, while the perforated stones were placed on 
the surface of the o-round, and during the dance, upon the approach of 
the individuals who had been made holy by the ceremonies before 
mentioned, the perforated charm stones would elevate themselves on 
one end, to be grasped by the fortunate individuals, who thereby obtained 
their desire in relation to having a good year. These stones were sus- 
I)ended upon the person of the medicine man only during the sacred 
dances, except in the case of a warrior, who would hang them upon his 
person to render him arrow-proof. In tliis connection 1 learned that 
the peculiar stone implement figured in Vol. vit, Wheeler's Report, on 
page 215, the uses of which have been heretofore unknown, was used 
in the following manner : 

Twenty of them were arranged in a square, five on each side; in the 
center was a bowl of water, beside w'hich stood the medicine-man, with 
a long stone pipe shaped like a cigar, in which an a herb, called impirate 
by the Mexicans, resembling southern wood, was smoked. The smoke 
was first directed toward the bowl of water, then toward the stones. 
The i)eoj)le ca?ne and moistened their faces with the w^ater in the bowl, 
which had been made holy by the previous ceremonies. This ceremony 
brought rain, caused death to enemies, and various other things. 

In conclusion, the evidence which I have obtained directly from the 
aborigines, the localities in which the implements have been found, the 
materials of which they are composed, the care and labor necessary in 
their manufacture, the evident superstitious ideas connected with them, 
and the ignorance of their uses (pretended or real), favor the conclusion 
that these im[)lements were objects highly prized and religiously vener- 
ated. Had they been intended to be used for any ordinary purpose or 
])urposes as assigned to them, the Imlians would not have been in ig- 
norance of it, nor would they have hesitated to give information con- 
eerning them. 

n. Mis. 170 20 



Smithsonian Report, 1886, Part I - Cl.jin, btones. ' Yates. 



Plate |. 




Smithsonian Report, 1886, Part I.— "Charm Stones," Yates 



Plate II. 




A 



14 



[ ' 



17 



V- , 








19 



20 



13 




18 



16 




21 



Sm.thson.an Report, 1886, Part 1- Charm Stones. Yates, 



Plate 




Smithsonian Report. 1886, Part I.-' Charm Stones. Yates. 



Plate IV, 






f 




( 




J 




y 


32 



29 



31 



STUDIES ON THE AKCn.EOLOOY OF MTCITOACAN (MEX- 
ICO). 

By Dr. Nicholas Leox. 
THE " LTENZO " (DRAWING ON LINEN) OP TUCUTAOATO. 

Ill the district of LJriiapan(iMi('/iioa.c;iii)an(l distant one league sootii of 
this city, is situated the ancient Tarascan Indian village called Tncnta- 
cato (Xncntacato). In this villagi^ our industrious friend and companion, 
I)r, Don Crescencio Garcia de Cotija, found some years ago the precious 
oiiginal of the painting which forms the subject of these lines. This 
gentleman succeeded with great <lifi!culty in obtaining it from the na- 
tives, and exhibited it at the first exposition of Michoacan, held in the 
year 1877. From that time it strongly attracted our attention, and we 
♦'udeavor to make a study of it. The colors in which it is drawn are 
undoubtedly of vegetable origin, for they have not lost their intensity 
in the least; on seeing them one wouhl say that they were recent and 
not from remote times. The fiber of the cloth is brilliant and very 
smooth, much resembling that of cotton {Gossypium herhaccum), and 
identical with that of Eriodcndron anfractuosum. As it is not possible 
to subject the latter to permanent spinning, we must suppose either 
that it is not of this material, or that the ''Tarascos" understood some 
IKM'.nliar method, now lost, of i)reparing it so as to use it to advantage. 
Two colors appear in the drawing, black and red. The latter is use<l 
only for the line which indicates on the jiictures tiie road fol}owe<i, and 
for the siiecies of shirt or Jacket worn by the individuals who appear to 
be chiefs or priests. The original measures 2 meters 6;> centimeters in 
length by 2 meters 3 centimeters in breadth. The annexed photogra])h 
is an exact cop}' of it. 

Let us see now its explanation. i\\ the very rare " Chronicle of the 
Order of our Angelic Father St. Francis, Province of San Pedro and 
San Pablo de IVIechoacan, in New Spain, by the professor of theology. 
Fray Alonso de la Rea, etc., lOJO, in Mexico by the widow of Ber- 
nardo Calderon, 1043, I Vol.," in Dook i, Chapter v (On the people who 
inhabited this province, whence they came, and the cause of their (join- 
ing), we read the following : "And according to the paintings and tradi- 
tions preserved in the archives of the times, these Indians, in order to 
come to these regions, passed a small arm of the sea, viz : the Strait of 
Anian, which bounds this land on the north. Although this is not cer- 
tainly known, we must accept it as true, for all the region inhabited by 
the divisions which remain in their first condition is an island. 1 pcr- 

307 



308 ARCHEOLOGY OF MTCnOACITAN. 

sande myself of its truth, because in (le})ictin,2: their. fn\st migrations on 
an ancient linen preserved in the village of Cucntacato, a league dis- 
tant from Uruapan, the 'Tarascos' represented these nine nations as 
setting out from the seven caves of the west, and as passing the narrovr 
arm of the sea or large river, whicli ]iasses from north to south, on 
wooden rafts or hurdles made of large (;anes fastened together. We 
see from this that these Tarascos are of those nine families who came 
with the Mexicans conducted by that fabulous bird ; nnd although it 
may be a fiible, it is certain that they came moved by some hidden im- 
l)ulse which urged -them on. They marched in a troop from this place 
Aztlan (for thus it was called) to another place where there was a very 
large tree. The devil, as oracle of this people, made them stop in the 
sliade of this tree, in the trunk of which they erected an alter to the idol 
llnitzilolvehtli, whence the idolatry of these people took its origin. 
They sat down to eat with the mistrust excited by a novelty experienced 
for the first time, and when they were more at ease the tree began creak- 
ing and split in the middle. The heads of families and chiefs of bands 
took this event as a bad omen, and, leaving olf eating, they consulted 
their god. He then called the Mexicans aside and said to them : 'Dis- 
miss those eight families and tell them to go, to follow whatever road 
and to stop wherever they please; you remain.' This was done, some 
reniaini!ig, the others setting out and following the road towards the 
east. Some peopled one place, the others another." There is no doubt 
that this is the linen or painting to which the chronicler refers, but it 
may be easily inferred that he knew it only by rei)ort, for he chaiiges 
some tilings and omits others. lie does not say, for <'xamp!e, that the 
hurdles or rafts have the form of turtles (Testudo), and he does notex- 
j)lain the rest. Let us now try to do it. 

Let us take as a starting point the upper right-hand corner of the 
photogra]>h, and for the sake of more clearness let us number the pict- 
nr(\s progressively. 

No. 1. Here is seen the cave from which go forth the chiefs of the nine 
tribes. One of them wears the red jacket and carries in his right hand 
a circle or disk with a handle, and appears to be conferring with another, 
dressed in like manner, who carries a large walking-stick, api)arently 
with the "fabulous bird" spoken of by La Rea resting on its upper ex- 
tremity. IJetween the two is seen a censer, identical in form with one 
in our possession taken from a " yacata" in Zamora. At the feet of both 
persons are playing some cornet or clarion players, over one of whom is 
a kind of flourish, the signification of which we do not know. The re- 
maining chiefs are in a reverential attitnde ; the others are already em- 
barked on their turtle-shaped rafts, indicating perhaps that the navi- 
gation or march has begun. Others look as if they wished to throw 
themselves in to swim. We do not know what is meant by the two 
stooping figures and the eight heads, nor by tlu^ one riding an animal 
resembling a dog. The vessel ]>1;h'(m1 abov«' him nMuinds us of nothing. 



PAl'EKS UKLATING TO ANTIIKOi'OLOGY. oOi) 

III tlio.se persons with the triunpets we think we recognize the priests, 
who, aeeording- to the " l>rarration of Mechoacau," page 2.', "phiy trum- 
pets and cornets ;" and troni uunierous graves we have dug up in the 
neighborhood of our native vilhige (^uiroga(Cucupa), near Tziutzuntzan, 
and various other reasons, we are certain that the one with the disk is 
tlie chief priest. Further on we see the priest seated, with the disk in 
liis right hand crossed by various lines like diameters. The trumpeters, 
the man with the stail", the bird, the dog, and the eight heads are ail 
prescuit, and we see besides a si)eeies of lierbaccous plant which might 
be the lianie of a bon (ire or a column of air. Here only is the chief 
priest represented with a red j'ac-ket. This [)art of the square has an 
undulating line, which crosses its whole extent and denotes the road 
fallowed. The inscriiition, which, as well as the others, was evidently 
added to the linen at the tini(M)f the conquest, appears to be in theTar- 
ascnin idiom. Aided by intelligent Indians, we have read, as we believe, 
till' following: cualciiii(i/ifI((}i2)azco, place wheie one sets out 5 cualc, 
])!ace; uiuihf, where ; JaJip((za>, one sets out. 

No. 2. The chief priest resting, chatting ai)pareutly with another who 
is on loot ; his disk without diametrical lines ; the staff thrust into the 
ground before him ; the bird, censer, water vessel, the two trumpeters 
playing, and only, seven heads; two groui)s of individuals separated 
by a little eminence, i>yramid, or "yacata," apparently in conference. 
Near the water vessel w'e meet with an object resembling a i^orringer. 
The "yacata" is perhajjs a sepulcher or temple, or the two combined, as 
we are led to believe by the things found in those still existing. The 
inscription reads nuimualcOj which is not Tarascan, but appears rather 
to be Mexican. We do not understand it. The line indicating the road 
])asses over the picture. The figure resembling a flourish which we see 
in No. 1 is wanting. 

No. 3. The chief jiriest in the same altitude, but not addressing any- 
body ; in front of him the censer ; further on the iigure like a flourish, with 
the bird to all a])pearance perched on it ; at his feet the water vessel 
and the i)orringer; at his sides the two trumpeters and the seven heads. 
A short distance from the individual is an elevated beam driven in the 
ground, and on lop of it is seen a puppet. Further on is seen the pyr- 
amid or ^'yacata," and an individual in the attitude of haranguing a 
group of six persons seated on the ground in an attitude which indi- 
cates both weariness and grief. The line indicating the road is not 
wanting. The inscription reads fei/enaltcan, and is to all appearance 
of Mexican origin. 

No. 1. The chief in the attitude of No. 2; the censer nearer to him, 
and then the staff'; the disk with diametrical lines; four heads; the 
bird; the vessel; and the porringer. The trumpeters are Avantiug. 
The flourish at the feet of the chief priest; the pyramid, and eight in- 
dividuals in the same posture as iu No. li. No inscription. 

No. 5. The priest, on foot, always with the disk in his right hand, ap 



310 ARCiliEOLOGY OF MlCHOACllAN. 

pears to be addressing those about liiiuj the ceuser is within reach of 
his baud 5 the staff is uot to be seeu : at his feet are the water jug, 
l)orringer, aud liourish; at his sides the two trumpeters; there are ouly 
two heads; four individuals are advauciug toward the pyramid, aud 
tlie bird is seen perched ou a nopal (cactus) a short distance away; it 
has no inscription. 

ISTo. 6. The attitude of the i)riest, the incensory, vessels, porringers, 
flourishes, and trumpeters are as in the preceding; the staff is driven 
in the ground, the bird resting likewise on the ground; there are four 
individuals in a squatting i)osture and four on foot; the pyramid is pres- 
ent and five heads are seen ; the inscription reads xiquipilco, a word of 
Mexican origin. 

No. 7, Priest, trumpetei'S, incensory, staff, liourish, vessels, and bird 
as in preceding ; near the pyramid are four individuals standing and 
one seated ; there are only two heads ; we have also a new personage, 
vvith a disk in the right hand, aud clotbed exactly like the first priest, 
but smaller of stature and apparently younger, standing behind the 
first. Perhaps it is the son of some one of the heads of families or of 
the priest, who is initiating him in his ministry, seeking, perhaps, a 
successor. The inscription, which is a Mexican Avord, reads, ayutzinco. 

No. 8. The old priest seated and the new one standing in his presence. 
The trumi^eters, incensory, vessels, aud bird as before. Seven figures 
are scattered about in tlie picture and the pyramid in the background. 
The staff" and flourish are wanting. The latter is not again seen in any 
of the remaining i)ictures. We notice, also, two foot prints which look 
as if they were made by a person wearing the now i)opular huarache. 
The inscription, the first genuine Tarascan we have met with, reads 
tzacapo, and signifies " stony place," from tzacapu, stone in general, 
and o, which indicates " place ol" This village exists now. We forgot 
to observe that the priest holds in his left hand, supported ou his knees 
and shoulder, the staff, which is perhaps a mark of temporal power as 
the disk is of si)iritual. It api^ears that in this place he assumed alone 
the authority which before he divided with the chiefs of the tribes or 
families. The heads, separated from their bodies, are wanting. 

No. 9. The chief is seated, with the staff in his presence but not the 
disk. We see the bird, the incensory, two porringers, and the prints 
of two feet. Three persons are advancing towards the pyramids. Every- 
thing else which appeared in the other pictures is wanting. The in- 
scription, in Tarascan, vg-mXh phatsingo. We do not know what it sig- 
nifies. 

No. 10. Wo see here only the priest seated with the disk in his 
rigkt hand, the staff in his left. In his presence is the incensory and 
three heads. We see, also, one of the trumpeters, apparently' on foot, 
and an object like a torch, of which we know not the signification. The 
inscription reads cupaquaro, place of meeting ; from ciqMtii or cum- 
tani, to meet; aro, place o»f. 



PAPERS EEI.ATING TO ANTilUOPOLOGY. 311 

No. 11. JJeic a])[)ears to bo tbo i>laco wheie, according to the chroni- 
cler, they reisted at the foot ol" a tree, whicli appears in the center, witli a 
"fabulous bird'' at its foot. Towards the bottom the priest is seated, 
with the censer in front of hini and a trumpeter at his feet. On the 
same side, but higher up, is seen the same figure of a priest in an iden- 
tical position. At his feet two individuals areseatedas if in conference. 
A trumpeter standing at his side is playing his instrument, while two 
persons in front of him an^ reverently talking to him. One head also 
is seen near him. In the middle two figures, with blow-pipes, are stir- 
ring up the lire of a brazier, and at their sides are six objects probably 
representing molds, into which they pour the melted metal, which is 
undoubtedly copi)er. In the form of these moulds we recognize various 
(mtting instruments used by the ])reseut Indians; and iu our archaeo- 
logical collectiou we have two of them, taken from a tomb, both of cop- 
per. Again we see the priest, who appears to be directing this oijcra- 
tion, and behind him three persons v.'ho appear to be making the molds. 
Various figures of men are seen in the background, some standing, some 
sitting ; two of them hold in their liands the cuttiisginstruments already 
determined. The semicircular one is the one called coa (Mexican Coatl.) 
and the other is called by the Taiascos iliiamu* The color of these 
objects is red. The i)yramid is present, and we see also a foot-print 
and a porringer. The line indicating the road, which has reached this 
point undivided, here divides into two ; the most focal soon terminates, 
the other extends farther. For the first time we see two houses, of con- 
struction similar to the present ones, and from which issue the lines men- 
tioned. These constructions appear to us to be by the same person who 
wrote the inscriptions, and were intended to show that in this place the 
Tarascos first fixed their residence. We are confirmed in this opinion 
by the two figures seen on the roof of the smaller; for, taking away the 
house, they appear to be occupied in extracting some heavy object from 
the ground. On the house, they indicate nothing to ns. The inscri[)- 
tion reads: Vtiacico. nicamjmiilitcnenaxinliqui Ian. ynix \\ qtiieh nauat- 
lacatl mucemtemacomican. In this inscription we have Tarascau and 
Mexican words, and others unknown to ns. This is what we make of 
it: Vnacico, a or tJte i>alm ; ni, goes or walks ; ca, there; 7iymuhtcnc, the 
others ; naxinJtqui ([)roper]y written it should be naxaqui), sit down, or 
rest, or remain here; Itui. ynix (properly canihuex), they set out or 
march ; quick, we do not know the meaning or whether it is Tarascau or 
JMexican ; nauallacatl, a Mexican word of which we know not the mean- 
ing; muccmte, we know neither the origin nor signification : macomican, 
jointly, at the same time. 

No. 12. The central line takes us to this picture. Here we see a house, 

' This instrument serves them as an ax, chisel, adz. paring chisel, and hammer. 
When us8d as an ax, it is placed in a special handle ; also when used as an adz. 
The word //liamit is equivalent to our metal. Here the name "iron" is vulgarly given 
to every metallic instrument ; for examiilc, a carpenter, iu complaining of the want 
of tools useful in his profession will say, " I do not work for want of ' irons.' " 



312 AKCILEOLOGY OF MICIIOAC'IIAN. 

ii head, the chief priest seated, and in his presence the small priest (seen 
in Nos. 7 and 8), holding in his hand the disk, which is wanting to the 
chief priest. Near the small priest is seen standing a single figure. The 
inscription reads mataguaran, place where they danced a second time, 
from matero, for the second time; varhani, to dance; and an, place in 
which or place of. 

No. 13. The two priests are seen in the same position as in the pre- 
ceding. The one sitting down has a head at his feet, and the one stand- 
ing has an individual at his left. In the background of the square is 
seen a small house. No inscrii)tion. 

No. 14. In the background of this square we see some edifices of a 
more complicated construction than the i)receding, since we observe a 
tower on one of them. We may therefore alfirm that this group was 
added to the picture after the time of Columbus. There are tw^o figures 
on foot, one seated, and one head. The line indicating the road turns 
to the right, forming a right angle. The inscription reads uruuapan. 
Various etymologies have been proposed to explain this name. Lejarza 
says it is derived from urani, and signifies gourd tree (Xicara). Euiz 
says it isfrom unqxini, a verb which expresses the germinating of shoots 
of plants. In Gilberti we meet with this verb, rralipcni, to comniand 
to do something, but where does it come from ? Some have told us (and 
this is the most probable derivation) that it is from nrun, cherimolia 
( Anona Ilum boldti ?), ^>a, imperative of the verb payii, to carry, and an, 
a particle, signifying place from or in which ; and thus it is vruuapun, 
place from which they brought cherimolias. 

No. 15. In this large square we have three villages, Tezcatlan, Mi- 
choacau, and l*atzcnaro. The first shows five individuals who look as 
if they were about to throw themselves into the water, the presence of 
wliich is indicated by the interrni)tion of the line indicating the road 
and by the i)resence of a canoe occupied by five figures — perhaps the 
same five. At the opposite end of the lake, w^hich we suppose is Lake 
Patzcuaro, the road continues and ends at a house, at the side of which 
is seen a "yacata." On the shore of the lake stands an individual with 
a [)orringer in his right hand and in an attitude which shows that he is 
s])eaking to those coming in the canoe. Further on is seen an individual 
advancing towards the house. On the border of the lake is seen a 
stranded canoe with only its oar. Our attention is attracted by a group 
of eleven individuals and three heads on the shores of the same lake 
and occupying the middle of the picture. Two of them, undoubtedly 
chiefs, are seated on little stools like those of the individuals in the pre- 
ceding squares whom we called chief and priest. The dress of one of 
them, api)arently the principal, is very similar to that of the present 
mountebanks, lie wears a hat similar in form to those worn by the 
(Chinese mandarins, as we see them drawn on fans and porcelains. His 
left hand grasps a staif. Face to face with this one is the other priest, 
with the dress in which we have seen him in the former pictures. At 



I'ArEKH KELATIM; to ANTJlltOrOLOGY. 313 

the sides of both are seen large cups or receivers, wbicli three of the 
lij;ures, iu revereutial attitude, are presentiug to them. Near these are 
live copper instrumeuts similar in shape to those which we see them 
casting in picture No. 11. Of the other tigures, some are standing, 
others sitting on the ground. There is no doubt that this represents the 
l)a.vmentof some tribute to the " Yrecha," and that tiie tributaries, alter 
having passed the lake in iheir canoes, are paying theii' respects to the 
chief and the priest. The inscription corres})()nding to this part is ini- 
ckuacan, a name which, like tczcathm, is of Mexican origin and signifies 
l»lac(5 of tishermen; from mirhiia, lisherman, and tlw possessive can, 
j»lace of. For many years alter the compiest the citt/ of Tziiitznntznii was 
c;dled by this name, ami this fact shows that this place is Tzintzuntzan, 
the capital of the Tarascos. 

In the right-hand angle are four figures standing as if in conversa- 
tion, and near them is an edilice which appears to be a foreign tem[)le. 
The inscri[)tion Yaad'A lyazquaro. Various etymologies have been i)ro- 
posed to explain this word. Some say that it signifies place of rejoicing; 
others, place where something is kept (Gilbert!), Xvoiw patzani, to keep. 
Lagunas says that it signilies place where they dye blackish, frou) 
])hafza)ii, to dye blackish. To us none of this ap[)ears certain. In oui- 
humble o[)inion the key is to be found in the " lielacion de Mechuacan :'' 
" How they found the place for their houses, and how they fought with 
the inhabitants of Curingiiaro." 

''As they found their place of abode iu the district of Fazqnaro called 
Tarhnlvhundlra, so also they found the site of their dwellings called 
retczcquaque. There were some lofty rocks, on the summit of which 
they built their houses, etc. They said one to another, 'Come hither, 
here is the place which your gods say is eaUed Zacapuhamucatin jxizquaro,'' 
etc. They admired the waters in this place, and when they saw them 
all they said, 'This is without donht pazquaro. Let us go and see the sites 
we ha\ e found for our houses.' And they went to that place where the 
cathedral is to bo built, and found there the said rocks cnWad pctazcqiia, 
which means building site," etc., pages 150 and 151. 

No. 10. Following the other fork of the road in picture No. 11, we 
come to No. 10, whose inscription reads tamaqna, and signiiies orchard, 
according to Gilberty. Laguims says : " The lands through which he 
])assed are muddy or slimy, lie passed by them, conseciuently, as worth- 
less on this account. This was not regretted by those who wished to 
sow in them melons and other such things." We give it the uiean- 
ing fertile land, which is justitied by the large leaves we see pictured 
and wliich ai)i)ear to be those of "uinfaceas" or some plants like 
" ciperaceas " (cyperus or sedge ?), essentially aquatic or tlourishing in 
daiiii) places. In the background is the pyramid, and three human 
ligures are seen advancing hastily toward it. 

No. 17. The pyramid in the background, and the same three ligures 
round about it iu au attitude as if holding a couversation with refer- 



314' AKCILEOLOGY OF MICHOACHAN. 

oiKU'. to it. The inscription is xucupan and sij^nifies place of hump or 
humped, from xucupa or cutupa, the liunip, and n, phice of. This place 
is now called the town of Luinga {'!). 

No. 18. In tills scjuare is seen only a withered tree, an indication, 
perhaps, of sterile land, with two individuals at its side speaking about 
it. Xo inscription. 

No. 19. A house in the background with one person seated near it, 
and two others standing in liis presence speaking with him. The in- 
sciiption, which is Tarascan, reads Vacioian. We have not been able 
to decipher its meaning. The village still exists. 

No. 20. We have here two large hills and at the side of one of them 
a house, towards which two individuals, descending from the hill, are 
advancing loaded with bundles. Behind them is seen a bundle with a 
head under it, whiclj may, perhaps, denote that its bearer perished 
with fatigue under its weight. The ])riest on his little stool appears 
to be watching over them, as well as over another individual who is ad- 
vauciDg towartls those desceuding the hill. In the sanie picture, but 
at its lower part, is seen the same priest in an identical position. Be- 
hind him is a head. Before him stands an imlividual with the statf 
raised in bis two haiuls, as if representing the authority of him who is 
seated, or looking at two individuals, who, each provided with large 
bags, are squatting down, apparently waiting orders. In the corner, 
opposite to and facing the priest, is seen another head. The inscrip- 
tion is !cpuJan, and although of Tarascan origin, we have not been able 
to decipher it. 

No. 21. The topography of this place is identical with that of the pre- 
ceding. Two individuals, one of them with a burden on his back, are 
descending the mountain. At the foot of these heights is the house, 
and near it the priest or chief seated on his bench of peculiar shape, 
with an individual standing before and behind him. The Tarascan in- 
scription is churumncKo. We do not know its meaning. This village 
still exists. 

No. 22. The house ai)pears to be high up; near it an individual on foot. 
Towards the bottom two individuals are seen advancing towards a 
third. The lines forming the scjuare are interrupted in the lower right- 
hand corner, which we suppose indicates that the Lake Patzcuaro reaches 
this place. The inscription reads metztlan. We do not know its mean- 
ing. 

No. 23. We see only an elevated hill, with two individuals desceud- 
ing one of its sides. At its foot are three heads, and the lower line which 
completes the square is wanting, It has the inscription jcanfjiquiyo, 
place of few flowers; from ira?i, few ; tsUsiriui, Hower', and ?/o, a particle 
joined to the noun to indicate i)lace of. 

No. 24. Here is a house, and near it an individual on foot. Three 
others are seen a short distance from the house, apparently conversing. 
The left hand angle of the square is interrupted, and there is seen a 



PAPEKS KELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 315 

bead. The line which \vc have i'ollowed IVom [)icture No. 11 terminates 
in this place, which is inscribed with the word iecuniatla, of doubtful 
T:u;ascan origin and unknown meaning. 

No, -5. Returnini;- to square Xo. 11, we will see to the ri<^lit two other 
lines, whiidi leave it for other squares. No. 25 sliows a hill, and two 
human figures who are apparently descending from its summit. On 
the plain are two shrubs with large leaves, which, per]ia|)s, indicate the 
fertility of the place, and it has the name puninato written, which sig- 
nifies place of calabashes {CuciimLs), from puntna, calabash {Ciicuntis 
2)c})<>), and the particle tio, small place of. 

No. 20. Again we have a hill with three individuals about its foot. 
In the plain is seen a vegetable identical with that of the pieceding 
])icture, and a human figure at its foot. Two heads are also seen, and 
the inscription reads tsichahpdo^ a Tarascau word which we have not 
been able to make out. 

No. 27. Here also we meet with a hill. On its left side are two large 
trees in foliage, and on its right two human figures on foot, ai)i>arently 
advancing towards it. In the field are two individuals, who are evi- 
dently conversing with great animation. It has the inscription cliu- 
nencoj which we do not understand, although it is Tarascan. 

No. 28. Here are two hills, one small and the other large. Two men 
loaded with great burdens are descending the latter, and another is 
going up towards them or pointing out the right road. On the small 
hill are seen two figures on foot, and at one side two dead trees. A 
road goes from the base of the small hill to that of the large one, and 
in the valley between the two we read the ins(;rii>tion .vicalvatica. We 
do not know its etymology. This village has disappeared completely ; 
only its site is known, liemains of houses and some mounds or pyra- 
mids (yacatas) are the only things which recall it to mind. In 
some excavations made here vessels of singular construction and de- 
sign have been found. We have inspected them and comi)ared them 
with those described by George Ebers in his great work on Egypt. 
They appeared to us similar. Axes of copper and darts of obsidian, and 
the skeleton of the buried person complete and in the horizontal posi- 
tion — an attitude which corresponds to the third class and to the more 
modern mode of burial, which we have discovered and classified in our 
archteological investigations in Michoacan. A short distance from this 
place exists the new Jicalan. Above the larger hill we read the in- 
scription Minas, so that those descending it are miners, bearing tlie 
products of their industry. That the Tarascans were skillful miners is 
proved by the great number of shafts, galleries, and caves met with in 
Michuacan, and all bear evidence of having been worked in primitive 
times. Frequently large mallets, anvils, and caves, with the remains of 
minerals, are found there, and the walls of these excavations show un- 
doub:;ed evidence of having been worked with these rude instruments. 
Their knowledge of minerals was extensive, and their idiom itself proves 



316 AKCILEOLOGY OF MICIIOACHAN. 

it to us. Tlic woid litiamu^ or tlamu, coiresuoiuls to tlic generic word 
uietiil. TliU.s tliey call iron phdcajictl tiatiui; silver, taijacata ; copper, 
iiamu charapcti^ oi red metal ; tin, hoij tayacata, watered silver or water 
of silver; lead, inilixa peti tjUl iai/dcata ; and gold, tiripi. It maybe 
seen Irom from this that the Tarascans almost e<]ualled the Europeans 
of their epoch in metallnrgic knowledge. The other peoples of the 
greater part of America supplied themselves with metals from Michoa- 
can, aud if we are to heed the light ati'orded us by some objects found 
in the capital of the Tarascau kingdom, the Miehoacans carried their 
commerce as far as Nicaragua. In the second session of the interna- 
tional congress of si)ecial students of xVmerica, held at Luxemburg in 
the year 1877, Dr. Sanchez, with bold reasoning, refuted some theories 
put forth byM.de llelhvald regarding native copper. A short time 
ago a plate of native copper, weighing G arrobas (150 i)0unds), was ex- 
tia(;ted from a mine, an<l frequently pie(;es of different sizes are found 
in alnu)st all the luimerous mines of tliis metal in Michoacan. In ad- 
dition to the objects of wrought cop[»erin our possession extracted from 
ancient tombs, we i)reserve a fragmentof native <;oi)per, found in a tomb, 
careiully wrapped in cotlon and covered with small fragments of car- 
bon. L'rom what we have investigated regarding the mineral wealth 
of Michoacan, we dare to affirm that it is in this branch the richest 
State of the whole Ivepublic. Finally, we will state that in an ancient 
sepulcher we lind a small vessel full of native cinnabar. 

No. 29. As in the preceding ones, the hill is seen in its middle part. 
Two men are advancing towards it and ascending. On the opposite side 
is another human figure stooping over, as if examining the ground and 
searching for something, perhaps some metal. At the base of the hill 
are three heads, and the inscrii)tion reads Apahtsimjan, the luime of a 
village which still exists aud of uidvuown etymology. 

No. 30. In this square without an inscription we see oidy two human 
figures walking at a distance aud in different directions, aud some with- 
ered trees — a sign of vegetable sterility and perhaps of nuneial wealth. 

No. 31. dnndo, place of the bird ; from cuin, bird, aud do, piaceof. In 
this square is depicted a hill divided by a large raviue, made by the water 
which descends from its brow. Towards this ravine are advancing two 
men, who appear to be examining it attentively^ It was the custom 
among the ancient Tarascans to examine these ravines, either to search 
the sand brought down by the water aud to separate the gold dust from 
it or to see if the Hood had uncovered any mine. At the foot of the hill 
are three heads, and another figure is seen on the side opposite to the 
two above mentioned. 

No. 32. On some hills are two human ligures, one of whom is intro- 
ducing his hand into the ground hunting for something; the other has 
the right hand raised and is attentively examining something contained 
in it. In the background are two heads. The inscrii)tion is tcvicxio. 

No. 33. We see here a hill, aud two figures in exactly the position as 



PAPKHP i;r.I.ATINO TO ANTTinOrOLOOY. i>\1 

iii sqiiurc No. .')! ; tlio lliinl is (ouiul seated, and the tliree lieads are 
likewise in the ^aine position. It has no inscription. 

No. 34. Here also is a liill, and at its IcCt is seen an individual ad- 
vancing:- on loot towards tw(* others walkinfj in an opposite direction. 

Tiic inscri[)tion reads .riicittUt^ -.i word of Tarascan origin, bnt oC in- 
scrntable si^iufication. 

No. ,3.") Tliislast sfjaare appears verj^ interesting to ns, lor it. clearly 
shows the occupation of the Tarascans as miners. The two hills seen 
here evidently contain the beginning or entrance of two ndnes. On the 
opi)osite side a human lignre is digging with an instrument after the 
manner of a crow-bar, and another party is already loaded from the 
same point with a bundle, which jjcrhaps contains metals. In front of 
him is seen a peison on foot, and in a very strange attitude. Another 
individual is walking rapidly towards him or the mine. This^S(piare 
has no inscription. 

The a])ove must notb«^ considered strictly as an explanation, but sim- 
l)ly a statement of the idens which our I\Iichuacan studies have sug- 
gested to us on examining the painting. Against the prehistoric aii- 
ti(iuity of the painting lias been urged, First, the presenccof the inscrip- 
tions; second, the construction of the houses and churches which are 
painted in some of the squares. With regard to the first we have replied, 
and shall add here, that the same thing is seen in genuine Aztec hiero- 
glyphics, and of the second we said that the honses were sometimes drawn 
hy the samei)erson who wrote the inscriptions. There is no doubt that 
these are both posterior to the Comiuest, for, accordingto a manuscript 
in possession of our learned and distinguished friend Sefior Don Joa- 
(juin (Inrria Icazbalceta, entitled " l)escri[)tion of Tirii)it:,io by its cor-* 
regidor, Pinlro de Monterdeoca, Septemiier 15, loS((, " (original 21 i)i>., 
text illustrated by two small figures), we know that the dwellings of 
the Tarascans had a very different form from those drawn in the map 
or linen ot Ju(;utacato. 

Tiie third observation is touching the relative correctness of tlie 
f!,i;ui-es and touching certain shades seen in some of them quit*; superior 
to those of native origin. We know little of native ]\I(^xican ])ainting, 
for, at a distance from tlie cai)ifal, we have scarcely learned the na-mes 
of the ''Eodi<'e Vaticaiio," of Kinsboroug, of Aubin, etc. We have 
seen something of the Mendocino, of the " Tira del Museo,"of the " Pe- 
legrinacion del Vaile," and the atlas of Padre Duran, and we note the 
sujieriority of execution in the linen of Jucutacato. 

11iis i)rejudiced us for some time, but^ we remember what Acosta La. 
Pea, and P>eaumont say about the great ability of the Tarascans for 
mnnnfacturing mosaics of feather; and, according to those who saw 
tliem, there is a choice of colors and consequently middle tints, shades, 
etc. If tliey made these in a masterly manner, wliy can we Jiot believe 
that in their jviintings they tried to imitate in some degree what nature 
taught them and obliofcd tliem to ])erform t 



318 ARCHEOLOGY OF MICHOACHAN. 

We notice tliat Beaumont, a diligent investigator of the Miclioacan 
antiquities, notwithstanding that he was well acquainted with the chron- 
icle of Padre La Eea, makes no reference to this painting. 

Having the second part of the original manuscript of the chronicle 
of Miclioacan in our possession, we have compared what he calls maps 
with the original of the Jucutacato drawing, and have always found 
the latter superior in execution. To give any value to such comparison 
it would have been necessary to have the originals from which Beau- 
mont copied, for he confesses that those in his original manuscript are 
transcribed, and i>erhaps not very faithfully, according to our view. 

Our friend the learned Senor Chavero, referring to this painting in 
the appendix to the work of Padre Duran (vol. n, p, 101), and before 
he knew of our photograph of it, says: "Larrea, in his Chronicle of 
Michoapan, an extremely rare book, says that the Tarascans i^reserved 
in tiie town of Cucutacato a hieroglyphic drawing of their journey." 
Sefior Arozco y Berra, judging Beaumont's geographical drawings, 
assures us that " they are material representations of the deeds, draw- 
ings and not writing, probably the exclusive work of painters after the 
conquest. (Vol. ii, page 590, of his Ancient History and History of the 
Conquest of Mexico.) Sefior Eiva Palacio, in the second volume of 
" Mexico across the Centuries," (p. 31, note), concludes that " these pic- 
tures were made some years, though very few, after the arrival of Cris- 
tobal de Olid," etc. We wished to anticipate the earlier opinions, in 
order to judge if this is properly a hieroglyphic. Seiior Orozco y Berra 
and liiva Palacio neither know nor refer to this linen. Seiior Chavero 
was actually acquainted with it, and already calls it hieroglyphic in an- 
ticipation. Does it then merit this name ? We believe that it does. Sup. 
posing that it does, how shall we distinguish it from the others ? With 
the name Kirioloyic or figurative.* With regard to the oi)inions of 
Seiiors Riva Palacio and Orozco y P>eria, lea\ii!g out the houses and 
inscrii)tions, we <;onsider them inajjplicable to this linen drawing. 

* According to Bescherelle Kiriologic is a painting of ideas solely by the images of 
visible objects. 



Smithscnian Report, 1886. Part l.-Michoacan. Leon. 



Plate I. 




ON SOME SPURIOUS MEXICAN ANTIQUITIES AND THEIR 
RELATION TO ANCIENT ART. 

By William II. Holmes. 

In order to place arch.Tology in America upon an entirely safe basils, 
there sliould be a most searching scrutiny of the art materials upon 
which the work is based. It has been rather too customary in the past 
to lump archa'ologic materials together without much attemi>t at dis- 
crimination. Pure indigenous art-has not been carefully distinguished 
from mixed art, ancient from modern art, and real from fraudulent art. 
To be sure, distinctions are not always easily drawn, and it is not at all 
snr[»rising that on some pages of our i^ioneer work we lind many in- 
congruous elements intermingled and employed to illnstrate indigenous 
culture. In many parts of Spanish America the conditions are exceed- 
ingly mixed, as three hundred years of miscegenation have passed by 
almost unobserved by science, and in the districts settled by the French 
and the English, the confusion, if not so great, is hardly less perplexing. 

In undertaking a discussion of this subject we need to distinguisii at 
least four classes of archfcologic materials: First, native art, the out- 
growth of aboriginal effort and adapted to aboriginal ends; it may be 
either i)re Columbian or post-Columbian. Second, mixed art, in which 
native ami foreign elements are combined in the legitimate practice of 
art; such art results from the close association or actual intermixture 
of distinct races, and being perfectly normal, and illustrating an oft- 
repeated phase of the development of culture, it repays careful study. 
Third, exotic art, examples of whicli become associated with the native 
art through trade or other accidents of contact, and which, owing to our 
lack of knowledge, are liable to be taken for native work, thus leading 
to error. Fourth, a most pernicious group of products executed purely 
for commercial ]>urposes, which are imitations more or less perfect of 
interesting or valued classes of art products. They are made by Euro- 
l»eans for trade with the natives, by the natives for trade with the 
whites, or either by Europeans or luitives for the purpose of deceiv- 
ing collectors. They are absolutely without value to science, and if not 
carefully distinguished from genuine work are capable of doing great 
injury. I^assing by for the present the abnndant materials of the three 
first-mentioned classes, I shall in this paper present some remarkable 
examples of the fourth class encountered in my studies of ancient Mex- 
ican art. 

3i'j 



320 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTirROPOLOGY. 

Spurious objects arc executed ju wood, stone, and metal, and experts 
of no mean order of talent ply their trade within tlie valley of Mexico. 
One iepr<)dH<U!S ancient instinments of music, tlie curious tepoimztli, 
for exaniple, in worm eaten wood and with surprisini;" cleverness; an- 
other forges articles of bronze and coi)por in divers wcll-knowrj, as well 
perhaps as heretofore unknown, forms ; whilst many carve in stone, 
liviiling the iincient la])idaries in shaping even the harder forms of 
quartz. Names of a number of makers could be given and illustrations 
of their work could be obt;iimMl from scores of collections. Three-fourths 
of th(^ objects of co[)per and pei]iai)s one- third of those of stone now found 
n American collections are frauds. 

Of all the materials, however, clay is the most extensively used, and 
on account of the ease with which it is mnnipn]ate<l some very curious 
and remarkable developments have talccn j)lac(\ The enterprising 
potters Imve not confined themselves to the copying of actual antiqui- 
ties, but, following the natural bentot; their genius, new forms have been 
invented and repeated until a family of frauds exhibiting a separate life 
and development has come into existence. 

In Science, of February 19, 1880, 1 called attention to some examples 
of this class of work, but not wishing to hurt the feelings of tliose who 
had given it a place in their collections, or who had published speci- 
mens under the belief that they were important relics of ancient art, I 
(lid not trim closely; but the hint did not make the impression I had 
int<Muled, and I propose now to push the matter a little further, and to 
exti nd the range of illustrations of dangerous specimens. Tliis work 
is not undeilnken in thesi)irit of a nu'ie critic. On the contrary, fncts 
hav<'. been sui>pressed au<l statenu'uts and forms of expression h;ive been 
iiiodilied in order that, in the correction of ra])i(lly growing errors, all 
])<'rsonal friction should be avoided. 

In classifying the ceramic products of Mexico m the TJ. S. National 
Museum, 1 found it necessary at the outset to eliminate this class of 
(^xci-escences, but not caring to make innovations about which there re- 
iiKiined a doubt, I concluded to wait until I could pay a visit to Mexico, 
and in 1883 J had the good fortune to spend a short time in that country. 
1 found the class of works here referred to given an important place in 
the National Museum there, and 1 was much perplexed thereby. It is 
iu)t surprising that the archaeologists in the United States or in Europe 
shonhl mak(^ mistakes in interprciting this work, as they have to take 
the woi'd of unscientific collectors who rely upon the statements of na- 
tive dealers ; but it is. strange that Mexican scholars should so long 
have i)assed the work by without remark. Professor Mendoza is said 
to have expressed the opinion that it should be classed as ordinary do- 
nu\stic Aztec ware, * thus imjilying that it probably constituted a nor- 
mal feature of Mexican art originating in the distant past, and extend- 
ing down to the present. This was a rather easy way of dealing with 

* J'.rocklclnirst, Mexico T(i-(l;iy. liOiKioii, 1SH:5, i):ii;<' 178. 



SPURIOUS MEXICAN ANTKani'lKS. o21 

tlie matter, but it was not all that .science demanded, and 1 nndertook 
to examine into the !snl)Je(;t more closely. 

In the lirst place, let me call attention to one of the fundamental prin- 
ciples of ail <i;ro\vtli — a principle which must be understood by the ar- 
chicolo^ist who would test the authenticity of unidentilled ivlics of 
primitive art, and draw the lino between the normal and the abnormal. 
Every projjcr product of the shaping' arts is intended for some noruial 
use. In indigenous work, vessels n)ade for use in the domestic arts are 
suitable to that end ; those made for ceremonial purposes are adapted to 
that end, and are embellished with symbols suitable to their office. They 
are in all cases exactly what a natural indi<j;enous jjjrowth makes them. 
Forms are not interchangeable and embellishments, especially those of 
an ideographic character, are not used indiscriminately as long as the 
art is in a normal condition. The Aztec race, and each native race as 
well, had distinct groui)s of ware devoted to the peculiar ceremonies in 
which they were employed. As soon as the religious observances were 
interfered with by the conquerors, the particular function of each class 
was lost, and in a short time forgotten. The art of vessel-making went 
on, but under very changed conditions. All symbolic forms and embel- 
lishments fell into disuse. Indigenes, who still secretly held to their 
old beliefs, understood symbolic forms, and perhaps understandingly 
rei)eated them, but with the great mass, vessels ceased to be more than 
meaningless utensils. Now many of the modern vases which I class as 
spurious products are remarktiblc in shape, and are profusely bedecked 
with strange ligures or devices, such as are, in a normal i»rimitiveslate 
of art, universally and exclusively symbolic; but the modern Aztec of 
the valley of Mexico does not understand the ancient mythology. Jtis 
not to be supposed that he attaches any significance whatever to the 
forms of vases or to the symbolic figures and ornaments of ancient times, 
and if he reproduces them they can not be more than mere copies. P>ut 
why should he copy them ? Not for use, for neither vases nor symbols 
are adai)ted to any use. The simple truth is, that the manufacture is 
exclusively for trade, and the objects have a market because they are 
thought by foreigners to be old, or to be copies of the ancient, and for 
no other reason. 

Antique objects began many years ago to have a value in money and 
the Aztec potter was equal to the occasion.* JJc has tilled the mu- 
seums of two contiuents with works which are not legitimate i)ro<lucts 
of Aztec art. The pottery utilized by his people — the modern Mexi- 
caus — is a very different affair indeed, as a glance at the water-bottles, 

* l)6sir6 Cliarnay,>lio Iciirncd, tliroiifrli ratlicr unpleasant exporioiico, tint true iiat- 
nio of tJiis ware, writes as follows in his recent work, Leu AncicniwH Villes dii norcaa 
vionde, page 36: "The Aibricatiou of these ])ieceB goes back as far as 1820 or 182(5. 
This grand hoax was conceived in Tlateloco street, and the fortunate inventor must 
have made his fortune thereby, to judge from the immense number of vases dispersed 
by liim. Most of the museums are infested by them, to say nothing of jirivato col- 
lections." 

U. Mis. 170 21 



322 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

the chocolate sets, and the multitude of homely but useful forms will 
amply show. 

But the remarkable fact is that the vessels of which I speak are gen- 
erally not copies of antique forms. It is possible that the manufacture 
began by the copying of actual specimens, but few originals can now be 
identified. The resemblances to the antique are slight and vanish 
under closer scrutiny. A careful study of the array of examples at hand 
shows that the makers are fancy free and that little attention is paid 
to antiquity save in the semblance of age so skillfully given. In con- 
sequence there is a lack of any fixed style of ware or range of forms • 
each generation and each maker produces distinct classes of results 
based in a measure upon what has gone before. 

It is stated by persons who have had occasion to try the experiment 
that all kinds of ware are imitated with equal ease, that one has but to 
go to these obliging artisans and say what he wants and how much, 
and it is done. I observe, however, that there are decided limitations 
that brilliantly polished and colored work is rarely attempted and that 
decoration in the refined colors and enamel like slii)s of the ancients is 
quite beyond the reach of the moderns. The great body of the spurious 
ware is unpainted and is either finished in black or dark brownish hues 
or is of the natural tints of the baked clay. The walls of vases are 
heavy and the whole effect is rather clumsy. The entire surface is usu- 
ally covered with ornamentation consisting of figures and devices in re- 
lief, or in the round, or of intaglio patterns. The latter are made by in- 
cising the soft clay, or by the application of stamps. The attached fig- 
ures are usually formed separately in molds and afterwards set into their 
places and neatly joined to the body of the vase. The molds, an assort- 
ment of which forms an essential part of the potter's outfit, are in many 
cases made from antique specimens. After finishing, the vases are pre- 
pared for market by burial for a short time in the moist earth, or more 
frequently perhaps, by simply washing them with a thin solution of clay. 
The clay is afterwards partially wiped off, leaving the incised lines and 
depressions filled with the light-colored deposit. 

I am speaking mainly of vases, but it should bo observed that all 
classes of objects are produced and reproduced, vases, statuettes, pipes, 
whistles, spindle-whorls, calendar-disks, stamps, etc. Large statuettes 
are treated as are the vases, and examples are given farther on. Works 
of the latter class rarely appear in ancient art independently of vases. 
They are usually executed in stone. Less important objects, small and 
simple pieces, are very generally formed by pressing the clay into shal- 
low molds, because apparently this is the easier method of fabrication. 
Tiie molds are made from original pieces recovered from ancient sites and 
the copies are often excellent and very difficult to distinguish from orig- 
inals. It is those classes of objects produced chiefly by free-hand mod- 
eling that call for attention here as they alone display the tendencies 
of modern genius as applied to this novel branch of art. 



SPURIOUS MEXICAN ANTIQUITIES. 



323 



Vases of a variety much affected at the period of my visit by leading 
makers at San Jiiaii Teotihnacau consist of an upright cylindrical body 
mounted upon three legs and surmounted b^' a conical lid. They are 
modeled without a wheel, in darkclay,and bristle witha superabundance 
of lignres in high relief which give a castellated effect. Plain or flat por- 
tions of the surface are rudely polished and are generally well covered 
with incised or indented ornaments. This ware may be purchased 
at any of the relic shops iu the City of Mexico, but can be had at much 
lower rates at San Juan. In passing back and forth by rail, I found 
that each train was met at San Juan by one or more of the venders, who 
were careful to expose but a limited number of pieces. Wishing to 
secure au example, I waited until the train was moving oft", when I held 
out a silver dolhir and the vase sliown iu Fig. 1 was quickly in my pos- 
session. The price asked at San Juan was $5, and in the City of Mexico 




Fig. 1.— Dark Vcase with lid, made at San Juan Teotibnacan; height, 11 inches. 

it would have been three times that amount. The dealers do not hesi- 
tate to assign definite localities to the "relics" and to give circumstan- 
tial accounts of their discovery, notwithstanding the fact that no such 
ware is ever found in the locality. One of the National Museum jneces 
is said to have been discovered by workmen in digging a well, 52 feet be- 



324 



PAPEES RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 



iieatli Ibe surface of the ground, aud auotber, a lithograph of which ap- 
pears in the Zeitschrift flir Ethnok)gie for 1882, is reported to have been 
found in an ancient cavern near or beneath one of the great pyramids. 
Two of the most clever workmen, as I am credibly informed, have their 
shoi)S just outside of the ancient city. Examples of other varieties are 




Fig. 4. 
Figs. 2, 3, and 4. — Vases in dark clay, made at San Juan Teotihnacan. 

presented in Figs. 2, 3, and 4. The form shown in Fig. 2 is a favorite, 
and with slight modifications is produced in luimbers. Figs. 3 and A are 
more rare. In the latter a serpent with tlattish body forms the head- 




FlG. 5.— Vase in brown clay, made at San Juan Teotihuacan. 

dress of a personage wliose strongly modeled visnge appears upon the 
front of the vase. The lid of tbis piece which is hidden by the head- 
dress is surmounted by a coiled serpent. These coiled-serpeut lids are 



SPURIOUS MEXICAN ANTIQUITIES. 



125 



found in many collections, and being- separated from the vasos to -svliicli 
they belonged are esteemed as valnablo relics. 

A characteristic S])ecimen, decorated with interlocked serpents and 
with heads of men and birds, is shown in Fig. 5. It is rndely made of 
brownish clay and is rather recent work of the San Juan makers. 

I must not omit mention of the manufacture of calendar disks in clay, 
although I cannot say positively that they are made at San Juan. These 
objects are often used as lids of vases, as in the example presented in 
Fig. G. They are generally made to resemble more or less closely 




the well known stone calendars and are executed in dark clay. 
The conventional figure seen ujwn this vase is the impression of one 
of the well-known stamps found plentifully in Mexico, and supposed 
by the modern i)otters to have been used l)y the ancients in a similar 
way. But a careful examination of the ancient ware indicates that 
there is little warrant for this assumption. A curious piece — a clay 
calendar about 15 inches in diameter and evidently quite new — 
was recently brought by Dr. E. Palmer from Guadalajara, INIexico. 
It is of a species wholly distinct from specimens found in the valley 
of Mexico. This discovery indicates that the business is extending. 
Whether or not the State of Jalisco, in which Guadalajara is situated, 
has furnished any example of ancient calendar peculiar to the region 
I can not say. 

A great variety of statuettes are made at San Juan, and copies of 
the peculiar little antique heads, for which the locality is noted, are 
reproduced in great numbers. 

Vases and other articles of somewhat different and often remarkable 
styles are more frequently met with in or near the City of Mexico. They 
also may be made at San Juan and elsewhere, but since the j^otter is, to 
some extent, migratorj^, the exact locality is of little consequence. They 
are of a brownish uucolored clay, or are finished in strong glistening 



326 



PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROI^OLOGY, 



"black. In form and detail they are often novel, and notwithstanding 
the fact that no such models have come down to us from antiquity, 
hawkers and dealers find a ready sale for them. The vases are gen- 
erally large and upright, and are covered with embellishments pretty 
much as those known to have been made at San Juan, but the intaglio 
figures are more frequently indented or stamped than incised. One 
variety is distinguished by a p.eries of whistles which encircle the rim 
or are attached to the neck or body. The mouths of the whistles are 
sometimes obscure iiud are ranged about the rim, often in places diffi- 
cult to reach with the lips. The whistles are modeled roughly after 
ancient forms, and usually the bulbous body, which contains the air 
chamber, is modeled to resemble a human face with distended cheeks. 
I present a typical but rude example in Fig. 7. 




Fig. 7. — Rude vase in biowu clay, with whistles attached. 

Some pieces are very much superior to this, and belong to a better 
period of the manufacture or are the work of superior artists. It is 
possible that such vases may not all have been made with the idea 
of deceiving, and that their intrinsic beauty was sufficient to secure 
them a market. Xo satisfactory estimate of their age can be formed, 
yet I believe that very few persons having any knowledge of such mat- 
ters will venture to call any of them antique. 

The piece shown in Fig. 8 is preserved in the Mexican Museum, and 
is not only very pretentious, but has many jioints worthy of admiration. 
It is unusually elaborate, and is unique in having both a lid and a 
pedestal or stand. The lid is bell-shaped and the neck is encircled by 
a series of whistles; the mouth-pieces of these appear as narrow slits 
on the upper surface of the rim of the vessel and the sound holes 
are in the eyes or mouths of the faces which form the body of the 
whistles. Detailed description is unnecessary, as the cut conve^i a 
very complete idea of the work. The color is that of ordinary burnt 
clay and the surface is hardly tarnished by age. An illustration of 
this piece was published by Charnay in the Xortli American Review. 
He expresses the opinion that it is not ancient. In some of its charac- 



SPURIOUS MEXICAN ANTIQUITIES. 



327 



ters it rec^alls the art of the period of degeneracy iu Aztec art that fol- 
lowed the conquest, and which is shown to good advantage in some of 
the codexes published by Kiugsborough. 





Fig. 8. — A large elaborately eni- 
bellislied whistle-vase in brownish 
clay. Whole hei<i;ht about 3 feet. 



Fig. 9. — A pitcher-shaped vase in liybt- 
brownish clay. 



Many of the more recent examples are very poorly constructed and 
fall to pieces iu handling. As a result it is readily discovered that 
partially hidden portions of the surface are quite new, being wholly 
unaffected by time or by the artificial aging given to the exposed parts. 
This group furnishes many pieces copied from, or rudely imitating, 
modern European products, such as pitchers, soui)-tureens, etc. — forms 
not known to the ]n'e-Spanish aborigines. An example owned by the 
Mexican Museum is illustrated iu Fig. 9. 

A similar piece representing another variety of ware is given farther 
on. 

Statuettes are inimerous, but are generally rude. So coarse are the 
more recent ones, and so unlike Aztec art in every essential character, 



328 



PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 



that 110 oue bavinj;- a wide knowledge of antiquities could be deceived. 
They are tlje work of chihlren or of extremely ignorant persons. Not- 
withstanding this fact, hundreds of pieces are found in our museums. 
They are not worth reproducing here. In past years some better work 
was done so far as execution is concerned, and it would appear that con- 
siderable attention was paid to the imitation of antique forms. A few 
examples sent from Mexico several years ago are now in the Museum at 
Washington. Characteristic forms are given in Figs. 10 and 11. These 
are types of forms most frequently imitated. 





Pigs. 10 ami 11. — Statuettes in brown clay. 



An unusually i)retentious piece having close affinities with the speci- 
mens considered above is found in the INIexican IMuseum. It is a heavy- 
set human figure, about half the size of life, and was in 18S4 catalogued 
as the God of War, Iluitzilopoxtli. It may seem that I venture too much 
in associating such a piece with fraudulent antiquities. Tarn convinced, 
however, that it is not ancient, and that it was not made to satisfy the 
normal demands of aboriginal art. It is shown in Fig. 12, 

Another noteworthy piece, Fig. 13, also in the Mexican ^luseum, 
should be placed in the category of modern fabrications, if not of frauds. 
The personage represented appears to be an American edition of the 
dying gladiator. He has received a fatal wound ; his niacana or toothed 
club, has fallen from his hand and his head falls backward in death. 



SriJKIOUS MEXICAN ANTIQUITIES. 



The work, iiltliongh for a rtule peo[)le pretty well doue, is extremely 
uieretricioiis, and in conception and execntion has but a very distant 
relation to pre-Columbian Aztec art. 








Fig. 12. — Large figure in dark brownish clay. Height, 30 inches. 

One variety of this suspected ware, as already mentioned, is finished 
in ajet black, highly polished surface, and furnishes some quite pleasing 




Fig. 13. — Figure of a dying warrior, in brown c]a}^ 

pieces. The best example in the Mexican Museum is shown in Fig. 14. 
The same hands have modeled the heavy pitcher-shaped vase illus- 
trated in Fig. 15. 



330 



PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY, 



These pieces, although certainly comparatively modern, are less mere- 
tricious than the palpable frauds. 




Fig. 14. — Black, well-finislicd vase, with lid. 




Fig. — 15. Pitcber-sbaped vase of black ware. 

That this ware does not all belong to the immediate present is clear. 
Much of that now in the Mexican Museum has been there for many 
years, and an American officer engaged in the Mexican war brought 



SPURIOUS MEXICAN ANTIQUITIES. 



331 



back a im in be i" of showy pieces, now in the U. S. National Mnsenni, Imt 
so far as I can learn we are left in uncertainty as to whether this officer 
actually saw them exhnmed or whether he took the word of some native 
collector. Dr. Charles llau, relying npon the statements furnished by 
the collector, i)ublished cuts of some of them in his "Collections of the 
National Museum." 

By reference to Yig. IG it will be seen that these pieces are highly 
ornate and that although they are somewhat clumsy, they show con- 
siderable skill in construction and finish. The plastic ornamentation 
consists of a heterogeneous collection of figures and ornamental ele- 
ments thrown together apparently without reference to origin or siguif- 




FlG. 16. — Large ornate vase iu black clay. 

icance, and by artists wholly ignorant of the true nature of ancient art. 
The maker has had in his outfit nn assortment of molds made from 
little figures, picked up here and there throughout ]\rexico. By press- 
ing bits of clay into these, casts are made Mhich were afterwards at- 
tached to the body of the vase in such positions as fancy happened to 
dictate. A serpent was added here and a bird or a lizard there and 
the work was finished by polishing with pebbles and indenting with 
little stamps. These vases have been attributed to the Zopotecs, but 
they bear but slight resemblance to the well-authenticated work of that 
people. In Zopotec art, a vase is embellished with the figure of a single 
personage and the symbols proper to him. but iu this bastard art, images 
and symbols of the whole Mexican pantheon are crowded upon a single 
piece. 



332 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

A multitude of figureens of greatly varying sizes are made in this 
variety of ware aud are sold at from a penuy apiece u^). The be<id is 
often made into a whistle, the mouth-piece being in the top of the head 
aud the sound hole in the mouth. Fig. 17 represents one of the very 
worst examples of this class. It is quite recent. 




Fig. 17. — Fignrinc in black clay with a whistle in the head. 

Some very pretentious pieces in black, well-polished ware come down 
from past years, but in all cases they lack authentication. A rather 
remarkable example, reproduced in Fig. 18, is figured in " Collections 
of the National Museum." It is a sitting figure, purporting to repre- 
sent some great personage or deity. It is fifteen inches in height, and 
is preserved in the U. S. National Museum. 

Ancient carvings of the serpent, especially of the rattlesnake, are 
very common in Mexico, and the subject is a popular one with modern 
imitators. It is true that antique examples in clay are preserved to 
us, but they are quite rare, whereas the spurious ones are to be found 
everywhere. 1 could point out several other classes of frauds, but I 
confine my efforts for the present to the illustration of the one great 
family. 

Fraudulent work in wood, stone, and metal, although assuming consid- 
erable importance, is limited for the most part to the copying of actual 
originals. In neither of these materials does a group of new forms ap- 
pear to have risen with sufficient individuality and consistency to per- 
petuate itself independently of legitimate art. 

I have not even attempted to identify the thousands of copies in clay 
of genuine relics now spread broadcast over the world, but my illus- 
trations are, I believe, suflQcient in number and variety to enable ar- 



SPURIOUS MEXICAN ANTIQUITIES. 



333 



cba3ologists to ideutify mauy of the most aangeroiis classes of objects, 
and luy declarations are, I hope, suflicieiitly strong to put all collectors 
upou their guard. 




Fig. If?.— Large image iu black clay. 

And now let me recapitulate briefly some of the arguments brought 
against the genuineness of the great body of the wares described as an- 
tiquities and as products of legitimate art. As a class they are ]u)st- 
Spauish and comparatively recent. That they are extensively made to- 
day is easily proved. A critical examination of the internal evidence of 
many specimens reputed to be antique demonstrates their newness be- 
yond a doubt. A few pieces only can st^and the ordeal of a thorough 
examination. In regard to these there is an absence of sufficient posi- 
tive information to condemn them as frauds, but an inquiry into the 
nature of the negative evidence is instructive. In the first place, no 
single iiiece has a pedigree, no one has a well authenticated locality or 
is known to have been found, so far as I can learn, in a position to lead 
us to suspect it of an,y considerable antiquity. Again, no ware of its 
class, whole or in fragments, is, to my knowledge, found upon iwy an- 
cient site in Mexico or elsewhere. It has theiefore absolutely no place 
among antiquities, and has but slight affinities with any known class 
of antiquities. It is not Zapotec pottery, as the laud of the Zapotecs 



334 PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 

yields none such. It is Dot Toltec, as the sites of Toltec cities furnish 
only their own tine wares. It is not ancient Aztec, for I have shown* 
that on the site of the Aztec capital, the ancient Tenochtitlan, a series 
of deposits tilled witli relics of all ages contains no such ware. It is 
not modern Aztec, as it is not used by the Atzec people; and finally I 
may say, without fear of controversion, that no matter where or by 
whom made, it was as a rule not intended to be used at all, excepting 
as abait for the gullible collector. 

The decoration is in the main un-American in character and in exe- 
cution, it is incongruous and wholly meaningless. The greater part of 
these products have absolutely no place in legitimate art and should be 
nameless in the discussion of archaeology, save in so far as naming is 
necessary in branding them as spurious. 

Arguments which seem sufiicient to me may not be strong enough to 
convince others of the correctness of my position, but there is such 
pressing need of clearing away much useless and harmful debris that I 
make these strong assertions hoping, if I am wrong, that some ambi- 
tious student may be spurred on to a closer definition of the true line 
between the normal and the abnormal phases of Mexican art. 
* TransactionB of the Anthropological Society, Vol. Ill, p. 66. 



EARTHWORKS AT FORT ANCIENT, OHIO. 

By W. M. TiioMi'SON, F. R. A. S. 

These earthworks are supposed to have beeu constructed loug before 
the red uiau obtained possession of the country. They are situated on 
the east bank of the Little Miami River on the top of the hill and about 
one-fourth of a mile east of the little railroad station, by the name of 
Fort Ancient. It is the strongest, largest, and most important of the 
defensive works of the extinct races of the contineut, and is probably 
better known than any other in southern Ohio. 

To all appearances the long mounds were used during some ancient 
war for breastworks, while the conical-shaped ones w, m, 7«, were prob- 
ably the ones used for picket or signal stations. 

In the vicinity of these earthworks, known as the Old Fort, there are 
several groups, all of which are well worth a visit. 

A few of these mounds have been dug into, and bones, various stone 
implements, some pottery, and bronze or copper axes, etc., found. 

While some workmen were digging a cellar near these mounds, they 
came to a i)avemeut of brick or pottery about 8 feet under ground. 
That these mounds were built at a remote period is evident, for on many 
of them trees more than 7 feet in circumference are found growing, and 
how many more have attained their full size and then fallen to decay, 
it is impossible to say. 

The extreme length of these works in a direct line is (luito o miles, 
but by following the various angles of the wall they would no doubt 
reach (in a direct line) the length of G miles or more. 

Both tumuli and mural remains of these extinct races of mound- 
builders (probably) are found in almost every portion of this county 
( Warren ). Several skeletons have been unearthed from various mounds 
in this (Warren) county. Five were unearthed two years ago from one 
mound. 

The following description of this remarkable work is from ArcJucologice 
Americmiw : "The fortification stands on a plain nearly horizontal, about 
U3G feet above the level of the river, between two branches with very 
steep and very deep banks. The openings in the walls are gate-ways, 
B, C, D, etc., the plain extends eastward along the State road, nearly 
level, about a half mile. The fortification on all sides, except the east 
and west wliere the road runs, is surrounded with precipices nearly in 
the shape of the wall. The wall on the inside varies in its height ac- 
cording to the shape of the ground. The outside being generally from 
8 to 10 feet, but on the plain it is nearly 19i feet high." 

335 



336 



PAPERS RELATING TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 



lu a few places B, D, the openiugs appear to be washed away in 
gutters. At about 20 poles east from the gate through which the State 
road runs are two mounds, M' M", about 10 feet 8 inches in height, 
the road running through tlu'iu nenrly r(iiii(list;nit from pjicli otlnM'. 








From these mounds are gutteis running nearly north and south, that 
appear to be artificial, and made to communicate with the branches on 
each side. Northeast from the mound, on the plain, are two roads, 
about 1 pole wide, elevated about 3 feet, and which run nearly parallel 
about one-fourth of a mile, and then form an irregular semicircle round 
a small mound, M. Near the southwest end of the fortification are three 
circular roads, between 30 and 40 poles in length, cut out of the preci- 
pice between the wall and the river; the Mall is made of earth. 

Several of these openings have evidently been occasioned by the 
water which had collected on the inside unt'l it overflowed the walls 
and wore itself a i)assage. 

In several other places the walls might never have been comi)leted, 



EAirniWOKKS AT FOliT ANCIENT, OHIO. o'6l 

as at I). The throe parallel loads ^1, near tlui southwest end of the 
fortilication appear to have been designed for persons to stand on and 
anuoy those who were passing uj) and down the liver. The Indians, 
as 1 have been inlbrnied, made this use of these roads in their war with 
each other and with ihe whites. 

Whether these works all belong to the same era and the same people 
I can not say, though the general oi)inion is that they do. The two 
parallel roads outside the fortificatious running liom two mouiuls north- 
west are very similar to modern turn])ikes, and are made to suit the 
nature of the soil and make of the ground. 

If the roads were for foot-races, the goals from which the pedestrians 
started or around which they ran and the area which these X)arallel w\alls 
inclose, smoothed by art, might have been the place where games were 
celebrated. 

As another proof of the great antiquity of these formations, we would 
call attention to the fact that the depth of the soil is the same on the 
mounds as it is 20 rods distant. This is one of the strongest evidences 
of the age of the remains. These works are located in a populous dis- 
trict and are very accessible, being almost within a stone's-throw of the 
station on the Little Miami IJailroad. They have been less obscured 
b3' cultivation and occupancy than most works of this class. 

A thorough and systematic exploratiou of these works is, however, a 
desideratum, llecent examinations go to show that such explorations 
would be rewarded by discoveries which would give to theories of origin 
and use a much better foundation than they have hitherto had. 

Note. — On earth-works at Fort Ancient. The enduring parapet still 
tracing the brink of the precipice presents only a broken outline of 
ruined strength. The location of this work in its details proves it to 
have been one of the most perfect in the world. An immense tree which 
grew- upon the parapet fell where it grew ; the rings which indicated its 
growth were counted some years ago, and showed it to be five hundred 
years old. It is about 230 feet above the level of the river (Little 
Miami). 

H. Mis. 170 22 



ON CERTAIN PARASITES, COMMENSALS, AND DOMICILI- 
ARS IN THE TEARL OYSTERS 3IELEAGBINu3^\ 

Bj' RoREKT E. C. Stearns. 

Tlie presence of nodules or tubercles on the interior surface of the 
shells or valves of lamellibranch (bivalve) mollusks is of frequent oc- 
currence. . These excrescences are nacreous or otherwise, according to 
the character, in this respect, of the shell in which or upon which they 
occur. They are found alike in fresh- water and marine species. lu the 
pond and river mussels ( Unionidw), they are chiefly due to interior 
causes; in marine forms, like the cockles [Cardium), mussels {Mytihis), 
the scallops [Fecten), etc., these formations are generally traceable to ex- 
terior causes. It is often the case that specimens of the large scallop of 
the New England coast (P. tenuicostatus), are so burrowed into by a spe- 
cies of sponge {Cliona snlphurea) that nearly the entire inside surface of 
the valves will be roughened with sharp, thickly-set i)ustulie. 

So, too, with the beautiful pecten of the west coast, P. Jiastatus, com- 
mon in certain localities in Puget Sound. Fully one-half of the speci- 
mens obtained by the dredge are so defaced by the ravages of a similar 
species of sponge as to be of no value. 

We sometimes meet with these noduhi? in the shells of marine gas- 
tropods, notably the Haliotidcv, popularly known as Abalones, or ear- 
shells, lu all of the marine s[)ecics in which these nodules occur it 
will usually be found that the substance of the shell has been bored 
into from the outside by either a species of i)holad or lithodomus. 

Neither of these forms are, properly speaking, either parasites or com- 
mensals. 

They are, more definitely, domiciliares, and excavate their burrows, 
not for the purpose of getting at the softer parts of the mollusk upon 
whose shell they have ''squatted" iu order to use said softer parts as 
food, after the manner of the predaceous Katieas and Purpuras, but 
solely for the i)urp()se of a residence or domicile. 

Tlie lithodomi, especially, burrow into many species of shells, and the 
})Iujlad, so often found in the heavy shells of old individuals of the 
Haliotidiv, I am inclined to believe as a difterentiated and dwarfed va- 
riety of a widely distributed rocJc-horer. A related form {Martc.sia 
cu7iei/ormis Gray) is common on the Atlantic coast of North America, 
and may often be seen in situ in the shells of the common oyster (0. 
virginica). 

The burrows of these shell-boring pholads and lithodomi are at first 
quite small, increasing in size in the same ratio as the burrower in- 



340 MISCELLANEOUS PAPERS. 

creases in age or in growth. After a while the depth of the boriug is 
equal to the thickuess of the shell iu which it has been made, and the 
occupant of the latter, in order to keep his own shell intact and main- 
tain the integrity of his own domicile, commences depositing layer upon 
layer of nacreous or porcellaneous matter, as the case may be. In 
keeping pace with the continued encroachments of the domiciliary 
squatter upon the outside, this deposit finally becomes a more or less 
conspicuous protuberance. 

In one of the mother-of pearl shells which illustrate this paper (Plate 
I, which exhibits, as do all the figures, the inner side of the shell), the 
exterior has been perforated in both directions; that is to say, /rons- 
versely, or at right angles to the (jrowthlayers of the shell also heticecn 
the growth-layers, the first class of perforations leading to the sei>arate 
rounded nodules and the latter to the elongated form. If the reader 
had the shell iu his haud, so that he could turn it over and examine 
the exterior perforations, he would at once perceive that the site of each 
of the nodules or tubercles exactly corresponds with the site of an ex- 
terior perforation or burrow. 

In the Maliotis shell, the domiciliares are a species of pholad {Fenitella 
parva Tryon), and the site of each mixy be seen on the outside of the 
shell and the corresponding nodosity on the inside. 

Plate I represents an adult abalone or ear-shell, Ilaliotis rtifescens 
Swainson (Mus. No. 74877), a Californian species. The figures 1, 2, and 
3 indicate the rounded elevations of nodules caused by Fenitella^ and 
figures 4, 5, and G show the ends or edges of the pholad shells, the sur- 
face of the ear-shell having been boied through or otherwise removed. 

Sometimes these nodules or tubercles are due to some foreign inor- 
ganic matter, a particle getting iu between the mantle of the mollusk 
and the inner surface of its shell. In such cases it is, we may say, at 
once plastered over, and thus fixed upon the surface of the valve. 

Free concretions, i. c, unattached or nonadherent nodules, are, as is 
well understood, caused by some particle, organic or inorganic, becom- 
ing in some way lodged exclusively in the soft parts of the body of the 
mollusk, and so far awa}- from the surface of the shell as not to admit 
of its being cemented to it. 

No doubt many of the moUusca, both gastropod and lamellibranch, 
contain or are inhabited by true parasites. In certain species of fresh- 
water mussels {Anodonta cygnea of Europe, and Anodonta flnviatilis of 
America) a species of water mite (Atax) has been detected, and some- 
times Filaria (thread worms) aiul other forms occur. 

CRUSTACEAN PARASITES. 

A small species of crab {Pinnotheres), an epicurean no doubt, finds 
a salubrious habitation iu the common oyster, but parasites of any con- 
siderable size a])pear to be rather rare. 

Besides Pinnotheres ostrcum Say, the name of the species above referred 



PEARL OYSTER PARASITES, ETC. 341 

to, another small crab {Pinnotheres maculattis Say) is sometimes foniul 
ill the common mussel {Mytilns edulis), and the large scallop {Pectcn 
tcnuicostafus) before mentioned. It is doubtful, however, whether these 
crabs are really parasites or only commensals, though probably the 
former. 

Before the Zoological Society (London, April 6, 186G), Dr. H. Wood- 
ward exhibited specimens of animals, commensal or parasitic, in the pearl 
mussels of Australia. Among these was "a specimen of Pinnotheres 
which has been entom'oed in a cyst of pearl by a living pearl-mussel," 
etc. 

He further remarked : '' It seems extraordinary and beyond belief 
that the Mclcagrina should of all the Couchifera be the one to resent the 
commensalism of the pea-crab, which has been known since the days of 
Cicero, Pliny, Oppian, and Aristotle, to inhabit the shell of the Pinna 
and the oyster, and has-been recorded from Asiartc, Peetunculus, aiul at 
least some half-dozen other bivalves, with whom it a})pears to livc^ ou 
the most friendly terms. 

" It is the females, however, which constantly reside within the shells 
of the Couchifera, whilst the males are said to avail themselves of favor, 
able opportunities to visit the females in their retirement. 

" Whether or not in this case the unlucky male intruded himself upon 
Mcleagrina at an unfavorable period, and, tinding no female Pinnotheres, 
penetrated so far beneath the mantle of the pearl-mussel as to be un- 
able to retreat, one thing is quite clear, namely, that the Meleafjrina 
entombed the intruder in a cyst of pearl from which the clever pearl- 
button maker alone liberated him." 

FISH PARASITES. 

We have, however, evidence of the occurrence of fishes of two species 
as parasites in the true pearl oyster, or mother of pearl shell Mcleagrina, 
not by the presence of the living fish, or even by dead specimens of 
"• fish in the tiesh," if we may use so convenient a paradox, but by their 
entombed remains in the form of nacreous noduhe or tubercles on the 
shells or valves of the said mollusk. 

At a subsequent meeting of the Zoological Society (June 1, 1880), 
Br. Giinther exhibited a specimen of a small fish of the genus Fierasfer 
embedded in a i)earl oyster, and said : 

" The specimen which is represented in the accompanying wood cut 
oF the natural size has been in my possession for many years. It is an 
old shell of Margarita margaritifera* in which there is imbedded, be- 
hind the impression of the attract or muscle, a perfect individual of a 
tish belonging to the genus Fieraxfer. The fish is covered by a thin layer 
of pearl substance, through which not only the general outlines of the 
body but even the eye and the mouth can be seen. The parasitic habits 

eleagrina manjaritifcra L. 



342 mi8C]:llaneous tapers. 

of Fierafifer are well known, and Putnam describes, in the ' Proceedings 
of tbe Boston Society of Natural History,' Vol. xvi, 1874, p. 34:4, a spe- 
cies, Fierafifcr dubius, which is found on both coasts of Central America, 
but inhabits holothurians on the Atlantic and pearl oysters on the Pa- 
cific side; and he further mentions, in a foot-note, an example belonging 
to the Museum of Comparative Zoology at Cambridge, in which also a 
Fierasfer has been imbedded in the substance of the shell. In this case, 
as well as in ours, the fish, instead of introducing itself into the cavity 
between the two halves of the mantle, penetrated between the mantle 
and the shell, causing irritation to the mollusk, which the latter resented 
by immediately secreting the substance with which the intruder is iu:)w 
covered. It is remarkable to note that the secretion must have taken 
place in a very short time, at any rate before the fish could be destroyed 
by decomi)Osition." 

Soon after the close of the New Orleans Exposition Prof. P. Perrari 
Perez and Senor J. G. Aguiiera, of the Mexican Geographical Commis- 
sion, visited Washington and remained here for several weeks for the 
purpose of comparing and identifying various natural history material 
with the assistance of the curators in different departments of the Na- 
tional Museum. 

The collections in charge of these gentlemen, so fiir as molluscan fornig 
are considered, were rather meager, though many interesting points 
l)ertaining to geographical distribution were derived from the examina- 
tion. 

The collection included a hundred or more valves of the common pearl 
oyster of the Pacific coast of Mexico, Mclcagrina fimhriaia Dkr., of 
which two or three species have been made by as many authors. Upon 
examining these last winter I found a single valve (see Plate II, Fig. C), 
the right half of a rather young individual in which was imbedded, in 
very nearly the same region as in the specimen mentioned b^' Dr. Ciin- 
ther, a small fish of rather a long and slender form, probably of the 
same genus and perhaps the same species as that inclosed in his (Giin- 
ther's) pearl-oyster valve, and previously described by Putnam, as 
quoted by Giiuther. The Mexican collection contained but a single 
specimen of this special character. 

ANOTHER SPECIES OF FISH DETECTED. 

Among the lot, however, were two or three valves, in each of which, 
inclosed in nacreous splendor, was a specimen of a small fish, apparently 
a species of OJifjocottus* In each instance the fish had worked its way 
between the interior face or surface of the valve and the mantle towards 
and near to the adductor muscle, as can be seen by examining the shell 
close by the muscular scar. 

The squarish, chunky head of the little intruder, also the somewhat 

* Submitted to Dr. Bean, curator of ichthyology, who, though not ]) 
fieilly refers it to this group. 



PEARL OYSTER PARASITES, ETC. 343 

prominent spines of the head, are easily discerned, though covered and 
partially obscured by the coating of nacre. (See Plate HI, Fig. D.) 

The single specimen containing the inclosed Fierasfer was retained 
by the commission, but one of the others (Plate III, Fig. E) was kindly 
presented to the National Museum. (So. 73934a.) 

I am not aware that the occurrence of OUgocottus in this way has here- 
tofore been observed or made known. 

This determination is not positive. The specimen (73931fl) repre- 
sented in Plate III, Fig. E, is not as favorably presented for this pur- 
l)Ose as in the others in the possession of the commission. 

The genus OUgocottus Girard includes certain small fishes inhabiting' 
rock pools between tide marks on the Pacitic coast of North America. 
The species described, and their distribution as given in Jordan and 
Gilbert's Synopsis of the Fishes of North America (Bulletin of the U. 
S. National IVIuseum, No. IG), is as follows : 

O. analis Grd., coast of California; abundant in rock pools, from 
Monterey southward to Lower California. 

0. maculosus, Grd., San Luis Obispo to Alaska, exceedingly abun- 
dant northward. 

0, glohiceps, Grd., Pacific coast northward to Kodiak, in rock pools ; 
rather rare. 

Assuming that Dr. Bean is correct in jilacing the above in this group, 
it will be observed that whether it belongs to the more southern species 
of the three (0. analis) or otherwise, the geographical disribution is 
evidently considerably extended, as the pearl oysters in which our 
specimens are inclosed came from the Gulf of California, where the 
fishery of these shells is carried on. 

After entering the shell, which of course must be at such time as 
tlie valves are partially open or gaining, these fishes find no obstruction 
to their course as they push their way towards the interior between the 
mantle and the smooth inner surface of the valves until they approach 
the adductor muscle, and here they find a barrier which most likely 
causes them to expend somewhat greater activity or energy and conse- 
quently in a correspondingly increased degree disturb the serenity if 
not the structural economy of the oyster. 

Having reached thus far, the invader is in the immediate vicinity of — if 
not the seat of intellect, then — the center of sensitiveness. The deposit 
of nacre in such instances must be very rapid, and it is quite possible 
that the unwelcome explorer is not only enshrouded and entombed in 
pearl, but previously drowned in a pearlaceous flood, for it may be rea- 
sonably presumed that the annoyance caused by its presence must be 
exceedingly great, and likely to induce a copious flow of nacreous lymph 
at the point and in the region of greatest irritation. 

It is evident that the deposition and induration are sufficientlv rapid 
to inclose the parasite before decomposition has taken place. 

December 15, 188G. 



344 MISCELLANEOUS PAPERS. 



Plate I. 

(Fig. A.) 

Halioiis rufescens Swainson (Museum No. 74877), the red-backed ear-shell or abaloue 
of California aud elsewhere, on the west coast of America (somewhat reduced). 

The figures 1, 2, aud 3 indicate nodules caused by the burrowing of a 2>holad, Peni- 
teUa parva, and 4, 5, and 6 show other nodules, the nacreous coating removed by ac- 
cident or otherwise, exposing the edges of the pholad shells, etc. 

From nature, by W. H. Chandlee. 



(Plate II.) 
Fig. B. 

Right valve of the pearl-oyster, mother-of-pearl shell Meleagrina fimlriaia Dun- 
ker, two-thirds natural size (a West Mexican species) showing rounded and elongated 
tubercles or nodulaj caused by perpendicular and inter lamellar perforations of litho- 
(lomi. 

From nature, by W. H. Chandlee. 

Specimen belongs to U. S. Nat. Museum, No. 73934&. 

(Fig. C.) 

Eight valve (two-thirds natural size) of Meleagrina finibriaia Dkr., mother-of-pearl 
shell from west coast of Mexico with parasitic fish Fierasfer inclosed in same. 
From nature, by A. Z. Shindler. 
Specimen belongs to the Mexican Geograi)hical Commission. 



Plate III. 

(Fig. D.) 

Eight valve (two-thirds natural size) of Meleagrina fimhriaia Dkr., mother-of-pearl 
shell from west coast of Mexico with parasitic fish Oligocoitus sp. inclosed in same. 
From nature, by A. Z. Shindler. 
Specimen belongs to the Mexican Geographical Commissior 

(Fig. E.) 

Left valve (two-thirds natural size) of Meleagrina fimlmata Dkr., from west coast of 
^[exico, with parasitic fish OUgocottus sp. inclosed in same. 
From nature, by W. Jl. Chandlee. 
Specimen belongs to the U. S. Nat. Museum, No. 73934a. 



Smithsonian Report, 1886, Pan I.— Oyster Parasites. Stearns. 



Plate I. 




Fia. A.—Haliotis rufescens. (Nearly natural size.; 



Smithsonian Report, 1886, Part 1. — Oyster Parasites. Stearns. 



Plate II. 




Fig. B.— Rig^ht valv-i of Melearjrina fimbriata. (j natural size.) 




Fig. C— Right valve of MeJeagnna fimhnuta . (* natural size.) 



Smithsonian Report, 1886, Part l.-Oyster Parasites. Stearns. 



Plate III. 




Fig. D.— Risiit valve of Mclmgrina fimhnnta. (* natural size.) 




\ "'%. 



\ 




Fig. E.— Left valve of Melenuyina fimbriata. (j natural size.) 



TIME-RECKOXHs^a FOR THE TWENTIETH CENTURY. 

r?y Sanford Flkmino, C. M. (}., LL. D., C. E., ktc. 

During the oarly historical ages ranch chronological confusion ])ie- 
vailed, and it is largely owing to this cause that the annals of the cen- 
tnries which preceded the Christian era are involved in obscnrity. The 
attempt to end this general disorder was made by Jnlius Caesar, who 
established regnlations with respect to the divisions of time and the 
mode of reckoning to be followed. The Julian Calendar was introduced 
forty-six years before Christ. It continued unchanged until the six- 
teenth century. In 1582 recognition was obtained of the errors and 
defects which the circumstances of the period had made manifest and 
which demanded correction. Pope Gregory XIII accordingly directed 
the reformation of the calendar and established new rules of intercala- 
tion. These two epochs are certainly the most important in the history 
of our chronology. 

Three centuries have passed since the reform of Pope Gregory. New 
continents have been opened to civilization and immense regions then 
wholly unknown to Europe have been peopled by races busied in com- 
merce and skilled in the arts, and characterized by unwearied energy and 
determination. In these three hundred years a marvellous succession 
oC inventions bearing upon human activity and {>rogress has been intro- 
duced, and the character of nearly every requirement of life has under- 
gone change. The discoveries and inventions which have marked this 
period have produced new conditions of society; and our minds have 
received an impulse which leads to investigation wherever need of im- 
provement appears to be demanded. It is within the last half century 
more especially that the bounds of human knowledge have been so 
wonderfully extended ; perhaps in the whole world's annals no fifty 
years have witnessed such a marvellous revolution. The triumphs of 
applied science in facilitating intercourse between men and nations 
have given an extraordinary impulse to general progress, but in so do- 
ing they have developed imperfections in our system of time-notation 
which previously were unknown, and it is no longer possible to escape 
the conviction that we have reached a stage when further reform is de- 
manded as a requirement of our condition. The necessity for a reform 
in time-reckoning is recognized by the highest authority, and has ob- 
tained a hold of public opinion. The President of the United States, 
General Arthur, at the request of Congress, authoritatively took pro- 
ceedings to bring the subject prominently to the attention of the world. 
After prolonged diplomatic correspondence with the Governments of 

345 



MC) MISCELLANEOUS PAPERS. 

foreign powers, be invited delegates from all nations to a scientific con- 
ference at AVashington in wliicli the subject should be fully considered. 

The conference met in the autumn of 1884. Twenty -five nationalities 
were represented. The proceedings extended over the mouth of Octo- 
ber, and they resulted in the almost unanimous adoption of seven reso- 
lutions bearing upon time-reckoning. 

As no records can be in accord unless a common starting point be 
agreed upon from which computations are to be made, the first resolu- 
tions had reference to the determination of an iuitial meridian. The 
meridian i^assing through Greenwich was selected. 

In the fourth and fifth resolutions the conference laid down the follow- 
ing important principles : 

IV. " That the conference proposes the adoption of a universal day 
for all purposes for which it may be found convenient and which shall 
not interfere with the use of local or other standard time where desira- 
ble." 

V. " That the universal day is to be a mean solar day ; is to begiu for 
all the world at the moment of mean midnight of the initial meridian, 
coinciding with the civil day and date of that meridian, and is to be 
counted from zero to twenty-four hours." 

The opening of the national Congress at Washington shortly followed 
the international conference. The President regarded the importance 
of the proceedings to bo such as to call for si^ecial mention of them in 
his annual message. General Arthur thus expressed himself on the 
subject: "The conference concluded its labors on the 1st of November, 
having with substantial unanimity agreed upon the meridian of Green- 
wich as the starting iwint whence longitude is to be computed through 
one hundred and eighty degrees eastward and westward, and upon the 
adoption, for all purposes for which it may be found convenient, of a 
universal day, which shall begin at midnight on the initial meridian 
and whose hours shall be counted from zero up to twenty-four." 

There was no exaggerated importance in these allusions, for the con- 
clusions of the conference are productive of most important results. 
They make provision for terminating all ambiguity in hours and dates 
and for establishing throughout the world, free from national suscepti- 
bility and caprice, perfect uniformity in reckoning time. Some years 
may elapse before the new notation becomes the one recognized mode 
of reckoning ; but when it shall have been generally accepted in the 
l)ractice of daily life, it is calculated to sweep away the difficulties now 
experienced, and it will add greatly to the general convenience of civil- 
ized man. 

One of the first practical eiforts to direct public attention to the rap- 
idly growing necessity for a comprehensive reform in time-reckoning 
can be found in a paper published in the Transactions of the Canadian 
Institute, Toronto, for the session of 1878-'79.* This paper adduces in 

* Time-reckoning and the selection of ji prime meridian to be common to all nations. 
By Sandford Fleming. 



NEW TIME-RECKONTNCr. 347 

support of its arojnnicnl iiiniiy ])crtiii(Mit facts, and points out that tlie 
gigantic systems of railways and telegra])lis which in modern times 
have been established in both continents have developed social and 
commercial conditions which never previously existed. These condi- 
tions have so alfected the relations of time and distance as to establish 
the fact that our inherited system of notation is defective; that it is 
inconvenient to men of business; (hat it ]>rodiices confusion and fre- 
quently results in loss of life, and leads to other difficulties; that under 
the circumstances which have followed the sul)stitution of steam for 
animals as a motive power, the ancient usages as retained in our nota- 
tion of hours and dates are generally imippropriate. Moreover, the use 
of the telegraph in our daily lives practically subjects the whole surface 
of the globe to the observation of civili/ed communities in each individ- 
ual locality. It leaves no interval of time between widely separated 
l)laces proportionate to their distances apart. It practically brings 
into close contact the opposite sides of the earth where daylight and 
darkness prevail at the same period. By this agency noon, midnight, 
sunrise, sunset, and the whole range of intermediate gradations of the 
day, are all observed and recognized at the same moment. Thus in 
matters out of the domain of local importance confusion is developed 
and all count of time is thrown into multiplied disorder. 

Again, under the usages now observed, a day is assumed to begin 
twelve hours before — and end twelve hours after — the sun i)asses the 
MK^ridian of any place. As the globe is constantly revolving on its axis, 
afresh meridian is every moment coming under the sun; as a conse- 
quence a day is always beginning somewhere and always ending some- 
where. Each meridian around the circumference of the sphere has its 
own day, and therefore it results that there are, during every diurnal 
revolution of the earth, an infinite number of local days all beginning 
within a space of twenty-four hours and each continuing twenty-four 
hours. These days overlap each other, but they are as perfectly distinct 
asthey^are infinite in number. While a day is nomiTially twenty-four 
hours in length, as a matter of fact forty-eight hours elapse between the 
first beginning and the last ending of every week day. Taking the 
'whole globe into our view, Sunday actually commences in the middle of 
Sat urday and lasts until the middle of Monday. Again, Saturday runs 
into the middle of Sunday, while Monday begins twenty-four hours be- 
fore Sunday comes to an end and continues twenty-four hours after 
Tuesday commences. Similarly for all the days of the week, as time is 
now reckoned. Except those on the same meridian, there are no simul- 
taneous days on the earth's surface, and as the different days are always 
in the various stages of advancement, discrepancies aud errors must 
necessarily result in assigning the precise period when an event takes 
place. The telegraph may give the exact local time of an occurrence, 
but the time so given must be in disagreement with local time on every 
other meridian around the globe. An event occurring on any one day 



548 MISCELLANEOUS PAPERS. 

may on the instaut be aiiiioimced in a locality where the time is that of 
the previons day, aud in another locality where the time is that of the 
following day. About the period when the mouth or year passes into 
another month or year an occurrence may actually take place, accord- 
ing to our present system of reckoning, in two different months or in 
two different years; indeed, there can be no certainty whatever with 
regard to time, unless the precise geographical position be specified as 
an essential fact in connection with the event described. Under these 
circumstances it must be conceded that our present system of notation 
is most defective, certainly it is unscientific, and possesses every ele- 
ment of confusion ; it produces a degree of ambiguity which, as railways 
and telegraphs become greatly multiplied, will lead to complications in 
social and commercial affairs, to errors in chronology, to litigation in 
connection with succession to property, insurance, contracts, and other 
matters; and, in view of individual and general relationships, it will 
undoubtedly act as a clog to the business of life and prove an increas- 
ing hindrance to human intercourse. 

The problem to be mastered is to put an end to this confusion. In 
order to do so, it is important that we should endeavor to form correct 
ideas of time and its attributes. 

According to the ordinary usages which we follow, the time of any 
particular locality depends upon its position on the earth's surface ; in 
other words, upon its longitude. The princii)le followed is that there 
is a separate time on every meridian around the circumference of the 
globe. Let us carry this theory to its logical conclusion. Take, by way 
of example, a hundred or a thousand meridians, each with a distinct and 
separate time. It will be conceded that what is true of one point on a 
meridian must be true of every point. A meridian line runs due north 
and south on the earth's surface from pole to pole; hence it follows 
that at the point where every nieridian must converge we have the time 
of every meridian. That is to say, at the earth's pole, a point common 
to every meridian, there are a hundred or a thousand different nota- 
tions of time, each distinct and separate. The extreme absurdity of 
this hypothesis establishes beyond question that the premises are false; 
and it is in no way surprising that confusion and difticulty result from 
a system such as we possess, based on principles so erroneous. 

We may here ask the question : " Why should time vary with every 
mile of longitude?" The answer comes. It is not possible to conceive 
more than a single unity of time in the whole universe. Time, which is 
"an infinite continuity in infinite space," resembles a mighty river, 
whose unvarying stream i)asses before us. Such a river is unchangea- 
ble, yet continually changing ; volumes of water always advancing are 
replaced by new volumes in perpetual succession, and yet the river con- 
tinues one and the same ever flowing unity. The passing stream of time 
is much the same, and the problem presented to us is to keep a proper 
record of its flow. It is perfectly obvious that the principles which 



NEW TIME-KECKONING. 349 

shoukl govern should be such as to secure complete accord in the detail 
of its admeasurement independently' of locality. All peoples are con- 
cerned in the attainment of harmonious results, and therefore it is im- 
])ortant that they sliould acquiesce in the employment of the same unit 
of computation and in counting the measurements from one common 
zero. 

We have not to look in vain for a convenient unit and the most per- 
fect instrument for measuring the i>assage of time. The rotation of 
the earth on its axis is marked hj- complete uniformity of movement, 
and nothing is more certain than the recurrence of this diurnal phenom- 
enon. Accordingly the earth itself supplies all our wants as a time- 
keeper; in it we have at our command a perpetual standard for the use 
and guidance of the entire family of man. 

Before, however, we can attain this end it is essential that mankind 
should come to an agreement on the following points: 

1. With respect to a zero from which the revolutions are to be counted. 

2. The acceptance of a common subdivision and a common notation 
by which parts of revolutions will be known by all and receive univer- 
sal recognition. 

The importance of a definite understanding on these points is self- 
evident, for if each individual or group of individuals adheres to the 
l)ractice of observing time from ditferent zeros and each maintains sep- 
arate reckonings of it, the outcome must be general confusion, such as 
we now experience. 

If in imagination we place ourselves at one extremity of the earth's 
axis, we shall find ourselves in a peculiarly' favorable position, free from 
all local influences, for observing the revolutions of the globe. At no 
other point in the northern hemisphere are the conditions the same. A 
spectator standiug at the north pole would have neither east nor west ; 
in whatever direction he might cast his eyes he would look towards the 
south; he would no longer see the daily return of sunrise and sunset; 
the sun when visible would move, or seem to move, in a horizontal line, 
and its path would encircle the earth parallel to and not far distant 
from the horizon. Under such circumstances it would not be possible 
to note the diurnal revolutions of the earth by the rising or setting of 
the sun, or by the sun's greatest altitude at midday, or by his southern 
position in the heavens. As the passage of time can only be marked 
by events, what course could be followed? Obviously it would be nec- 
essary to take special means to observe the earth's diurnal rotation, and 
the method most readily to suggest itself would be to select a conspic- 
uous object near the horizon and according to this object observe the 
sun's passage over it. The object so selected would become the zero of 
time, and the interval between two successive solar passages would be 
the period occupied by a revolution of the earth. If from zero the hori- 
zon be divided into a series of arcs of 15° each the whole circle around 
will consist of twenty-four divisions. If each of the division points be 



350 MISCELLANEOUS PAPERS. 

numbered from zero in the direction contrary to the motion of. the earth 
or towards the right, and in imaf^inatioii the numbers be placed in a 
conspicuous manner against the sky, the spectator ^Yill have within his 
range of vision a great dial-plate ou which as it revolves the vertical 
sun will continually point to the passing hours. With the twenty-four 
division points so numbered around the circle of the horizon, it is obvi- 
ous that every hour in the day, and equally the smaller divisions of 
time, will invariably be manifested by the solar i)assage. 

As the imaginary point of observation, the north pole, is common to 
every meridian, the hours and minutes indicated by the great polar 
chronometer will be equally common to every locality on the surface of 
the globe. Whatever the longitude, the solar passage will be the index 
of time. Two successive passages at zero will complete an interval of 
tw^enty-four hours ; but it will not be a day in the ordinary sense, as an 
ordinary day is a local phenomenon in no two longitudes idieutical.* To 
distinguish this new interval of time common to the whole world from 
the infinite number of local daj^s at present recognized it has been sug- 
gested to term it the " Cosmic Day," or some distinctive appellation by 
which it niaj^ be known. 

Necessarily the zero point must be arbitrarily selected according to 
convenience, and any zero whatever, other things being equal, would 
serve the purpose which we have in view. We have only to assume the 
zero so selected to coincide with the Autiprime Meridian determined by 
the Washington Conference, and the Cosmic Day will be identical witii 
the Universal Day, established under the same authority. A Universal 
or Cosmic Day may therefore be defined as the interval of time between 
two succeeding solar passages at the Antiprime Meridian common to all 
nations. 

In his recent discourse on the sul)ject at the Eoyal Institution, Lon- 
don, the astronomer royal for Great Britain, Mr. Christie, expressed a 
preference for the term "World Time" to designate this new measure of 
duration. It has been termed " Cosmic Time" by various societies and 
individuals ; but the name is of secondary importance, if it be under- 
stood that the new measure of time is equally related to every locality. 
By its very nature. Cosmic Time, or by whatever name it may be known, 
must coincide with some one of the multiplicity of existing times. The 
decision of the Washington Conference caused it to correspond with 
CJreenwich Civil Time. Greenwich time is the local time of Greenwich. 
Cosmic Time is a new and an entirely different conception; it is the time 
of the world common to every nation. "Cosmic" and "Greenwich" time 
are identical fortuitously, but the expressions imply two totally differ- 
ent ideas, and a proper deference to national sensitiveness suggests the 
good taste and expediency of distinguishing the two ideas by dift'erent 
terms. Some distinctive name is undoubtedly called for, until the 

* The Nautical Almanac defines an ordinary solar day to be the interval of time be- 
tween the departure o{ any meridian from the sun and its succeedin}? returu to it. 



NEW TIME-KECKONING. 



351 



period aiiives wlioii the uniticatioiiof time \\'ill be coiiii)lete. In tlienot 
far distant liiturc it may become eqlially as uiiiieeessary to speak of 
" Solar," " Lunar," "Astronomical," "Civil," "Nautical," "Local," " Cos- 
mic," or " World" time, as at present it is unnecessary to attach these or 
other distinctive appellations to "Space." Thesimple expression "Time" 
may then become sufficient for all purposes. 



Loiigitiulo ea>st iiiul west 
Iroiii Grcouwich. 



180 
1(55 
150 
i:35 
120 
105 

yo 

75 

GO 

45 

30 

15 



15 

30 

45 

(50 

75 

00 

105 

I'JO 

135 

150 

1(15 

180 



aiitipriiiie meridian. 

east 

east 

east 



east . 
east . 
east 
east , 
east 
east . 
east , 
east 



the i>riuie nicridiau 

west 

west 

west 

west 

west 

west 

west 

west 

west 

west 

west 

autipriine meridian 



Loiij;itude 
wt^st I'roiu 
time zero. 



15 

30 
45 

(iO 

75 

00 

105 

!>,>() 

135 

150 

Km 

1«0 

195 

210 

225 

240 

255 

270 

2r<5 

300 

315 

330 

345 

300 aud 



3 

Longitude 

by hour 
meridiaus. 



XiDubcr. 

1 
2 
3 
4 



(■) 

7 

8 



10 

11 

12 

13 

14 

15 

k; 

17 

18 
10 
20 
21 
22 
23 
and 24 



Cosmic Time at 

mean solar 

passage. 



Hour. 
Change of the dav. 
1 
2 
3 
4 
5 

r» 

7 

8 

9 
10 
11 
12 
13 
14 
15 
16 
17 
18 
19 
20 
21 
22 
23 
24 aud change. 



* Zero of Cosmic Time and of Longitude. 

The relation between time aud longitude is important. If longitude 
be reckoned by hour meridians, as in the second and third columns of 
the table, that is to say, numbered continually westward from the Anti- 
prime Meridian, which is the true time zero, the inhabitants of every 
individual locality in whatever longitude willdaily have an opportunity 
of regulating time by the great natural standard of measurement. 
The longitude of the locality being known, at mean solar passage the 
time will invariably and precisely agree with the longitude. Con- 
versely, the time being known, the longitude of the place will be in 
strict agreement with time at the moment of mean solar passage. 

A reference to the following plate will make it clear that the solar 
passage will be the invariable index of Cosmic Time. 

Fig. 1 shows the relative position of sun and earth at the initial in- 
stant of the Cosmic Day, that is, at the moment of mean solar passage 
on the Antiprime Meridian adopted by the Washington Conference. 



352 



MISCELLANEOUS PAPERS. 



Fig. 2 gives the position when the earth has made a sixth of a revo- 
lution and four hours have elapsed. The solar passage at this stage is 
on the four-hour meridian. 



mi 



FM2 



■^:^^--'r^mmm 



\> 



•v, I 



%% ^? ^* / 3 




\ 



\ 



'h ^ 6 



e 



^ 



^ 






"^ 



^ 



e/ 



St 



a. 91 '^ 



\ 



^ 



B;f.3 




TJ'J.-I 



■^ 



^1^4^ 






^ 






u oz ^ 



e 



I n ci> 



^^ 



<v 



V— ' 

CO 
"to 



Fig. 3. When the earth li;is innde ;i tJiird of <\ revolution and occupied 
a period of eight hours, the solar passage occurs on the eight-hour me- 
ridian. 



NEW TIME-RECKONING. 353 

Fig. 4. When the earth has made half a revohition and twelve liours 
have ehi[>sed, the solar passage is at this stage on twelve-hour or Prime 
Meridian. 

Similarly for every other meridian, and thus the precise relation be- 
tween Cosmic Time and longitude is definitely established. 

It may be said that Cosmic or Universal Time is accepted in science, 
but its adoption in ordinary life can only be gradually and perhaps with 
difficulty effected. It is not to be looked for that a change so marked, 
involving a revolution of thought in some of our social customs, can be 
speedily introduced, however desirable it may be in the public interest. 
There is a class of men who habitually express their contempt for what 
they designate as " new-fangled notions," and who refuse to go out of 
sight of old landmarks. The usages which we desire to supersede are 
certainly old, for they took their origin when our civilization was young. 
In those days it was a dogma that the earth had a flat surface, but as 
the belief that the earth is a plane is no longer invested with the au- 
thority of a truth, we may venture to call in question the theory that 
each locality on its surface possesses an independent stream of time and 
is called upon to defend and maintain it. The human race is no longer 
confined within a narrow area. It has overspread the surface of the 
earth ; in the Old and Few Worlds it has grown, in some portions of their 
extent it is still growing, from an infantile condition to a state of man- 
hood. Are we not yet able to look beyond one individual horizon and 
enlarge our range of vision so as to include a system which will satisfy 
the requirements, not of a locality, but of the whole globe? 

We are living in an age of intellectual and social progress, when 
men are less fettered than our fathers were by the restraints of custom. 
On the continent of North America extraordinary progress has already 
been made by an essentially practical people towards the adoption of 
a complete reform in ti»me-reckoning. What is known as the Stand- 
ard-hour system, in itself in complete harmony with the principles of 
Cosmic Time, has been in common use for nearly three years, and it is 
generally recognized as an incalculable benefit to the whole community. 
Throughout the United States and Canada we have outgrown the no- 
tion of isolating each locality by compelling it to observe a separate time 
notation. The Continent is divided into zones, each zone having the 
same time throughout its extent, based on a meridian which is a multi- 
ple of fifteen degrees from the Prime Meridian. Consequently the time 
of each zone varies exactly one hour from that of the adjoining zones. 
Thus all the variations of time which formerly were limited only by the 
number of towns and cities and localities which observed their own lo- 
cal time are reduced to the five zones. Only at points where the zones 
come in contact is there any exception to the common satisfaction which 
has resulted from the change. These are the only localities where we 
find the old-time difficulties, now so happily removed from every other 
section of the Continent. At such localities the difSculties must con- 
H. Mis. 170 23 



354 MISCELLANEOUS PAPERS. 

tiuue to be felt until Cosmic Time comes into general use, for it is the 
onlj' one remedy which can satisfy every requirement. 

The Standard-hour system is an elfective preliminary means for the 
introduction of universal time, and it is not confined to North America. 
In Sweden, as well as Great Britain, the principle is in common use. 
The Standard Time of Sweden is based on the meridian fifteen degrees 
east of the j)rime meridian ; consequently an hour in advance of the Prime 
Meridian time. The time of Great Britain is that of the prime meridian 
itself. 

The scheme of hour meridians can only be regarded as a provisional 
arrangement. It greatly lessens the difficulties experienced, but it does 
not wholly remove them. It is, however, an imj)ortant practical step 
towards the general unification of time, as it brings the minutes and sec- 
onds into complete agreement with the world's time wherever the sys- 
tem is adopted. The Astronomer Koyal of Great Britain calls particular 
attention to the breadth of view evidenced by the managers of the Am- 
erican railways who were so largely instrumental in having this impor- 
tant step taken. " By adopting a national meridian as the basis of their 
time-system they might have rendered impracticable the idea of a uni- 
versal time to be used by Europe as well as America. But they rose 
above national jealousies and decided to have their time-reckoning based 
on the meridian which was likely to suit the convenience of the great- 
est number, thus doing their utmost to promote uniformity of time 
throughout the world by setting an example of the sacrifice of human 
susceptibilities to general expediency." 

There is one feature of time-reform alluded to by President Arthur in 
his message to Congress which promises before long to be accepted by 
the community. I refer to the proposal to count the hours from zero 
to twenty-four. The recent report of the special committee on Standard 
Time of the American Society of Civil Engineers (January, 188G) thus 
alludes to this branch of the subject : 

" This feature has the authority of the International Conference for 
its introduction. In intelligent circles in Europe, particularly in Eng- 
land and in Russia, also at the antipodes in Australia, the proposal is 
reported to have been greeted with enthusiasm. The Astronomer Royal 
of England, Mr. Christie, has established at Greenwich Observatory a 
division of the great dial into twenty-four hours. In London and in 
other cities, public clocks have been also changed to accustom the 
English public to this division of the day. Some newspapers in all 
their announcements adopt the change, and scientific societies give 
notce of their meetings in the same manner as this Society, according 
to the twenty-four-hour system. 

"On this Continent there has been no uncertain sound. In the last 
annual report of the Committee it was stated that one hundred and sev- 
enty-one managers of railways in the United States and Canada had de- 
clared their readiness to abandon the division of the day into half-days, 



NEW TIME-RECKONING. 355 

known as ante and post meridian, and to accept the numeration of the 
hours in one series, from midnif^ht to midnight, these managers having 
under their control some C0,000 miles of railway. 

^' During the past year the seed sown has been fructifying, and many 
who held back have been won over and have given their adhesion to 
the movement. Among the many important railways ready to co-oper- 
ate, some apiiear to see no necessity for farther delay-, and desire to se- 
cure at once the advantages which will result from the change. At this 
date it is publicly announced that the Canadian Pacific Eailway Com- 
pany have determined to adoj^t the 24 hour system, and are actually 
preparing to make the change at an early day.* Such proceedings can 
be accepted as indicating a proper apjireciation of the reform which the 
American Society of Civil Engineers has advocated, and equally shows 
the discernment of those who direct the management of the youngest 
of the transcontinental railways. This practical commencement will, 
without a doubt, be speedily followed by other railway companies, and 
before long we may look for the 24-hour system coming into general use.t 

There is undoubtedly a growing feeling in many quarters in favor of 
the 24-hour system. It is reported to be used with great advantage on 
the whole of the cables and other lines of the Eastern Telegraph Com- 
pany, and its connections extending from England through Europe and 
the Mediterranean to Egypt, and from Egypt to South Africa, India, 
China, and Japan, Australia, and New Zealand. 

It is a pertinent question to ask, what influence these various changes 
will have in i)reparing the public mind for another, and it may be said 
a final, change— the adoption of one uniform time in every longitude! 
For it must be evident to the thoughtful observer that the movement 

* At midsummer, 1886, the Canadian Pacific Eailway was opened from the AtlaiiTlic 
to the Pacific and the 24-hour system went into force in running " through" trains. 
The example set by the railway company has been followed in the towns and villages 
along the line, and the inhabitants generally having experienced the advantages of 
the change, no desire is expressed in any quarter to return to the old usage, 

tThe following foot-note is added: " It is proposed to adapt clocks and watches 
now in use to the change, by having inscribed on the existing dials the new numbers 
of the afternoon hours —thirteen to twenty-four (13 to 24) inclusive. The only prac- 
tical difficulty to be overcome is met by the simple expedient of placing on the face 
of the watch or clock a supplementary dial, showing the new afternoon hours in 
Arabic numerals within the present Roman figures. The supplementary dial must 
be of thin material, and it has been found that, by being made simply of paper and 
secured to its position by any gum which will adhere to an enammeled surface, the ob- 
ject is attained without any further alteration of the watch or clock. The committee is 
aware that these seem trifling matters to bring under the notice of the convention, 
but questions of great moment not seldom hinge on small details. It is evident, from 
what has been set forth, that every person in the community may, at the cost of a few 
cents in each case, adapt his watch to tile 24-hour system. The committee accord- 
ingly repeat their conviction that, with the disappearance of the only practical diffi- 
culty at an insignificant cost, there is nothing to prevent the railway authorities and 
the community at large adopting the change as soon as they become alive to its ad- 
vantages."— Report of the Buff'alo Convention of the American Society of Civil Eij- 
gineer^. ' 



356 MISCELLANEOUS PAPERS. 

for reforming our time-system will not Lave attained its object until 
this end be accomplished. 

Those persons who have been in the habit of finishing their daily work 
at 6 p. m. under the 24-hour system will end it at 18. Those who re- 
tired to rest at 10 or 11 p. m. will seek their beds at 22 or 23. The idea 
that solar noon and 12 o'clock are one and inseparable has already been 
set aside throughout the United States and Canada ; only on five me- 
ridians—the GOth, 75th, 90th, 105th, and 120th— is it held to be 12 o'clock 
at the mean solar passage. In all other longitudes throughout Korth 
America the identity between solar noon and 12 o'clock has practically 
been swept away. 

These modifications in the time reckoning must tend to remove the 
idea that there is some necessary connection between the numbers of 
the hours and the position of the sun in each local firmament. The 
force of habit has heretofore associated noon with 12 o'clock, but in due 
time it will become obvious to every one that the hour of the sun's pas- 
sage at any one locality may with as much propriety be distinguished 
by any one of the twenty-four numbers as by the now generally 
received number 12. So soon as this new idea comes generally to be ac- 
cepted, so soon as it is understood that the numbers of the hours are arbi- 
trary and conventional, it will not be difficult to take the final step in 
time reform and entirely supersede the present system by a notation 
which will give to mankind throughout the world simultaneous dates 
and hours and minutes. 

The final step may appear to involve serious changes in much which 
concerns every individual, but it is not to be supposed that it will in 
any way interfere with the periods for labor, sleep, meals, or any ordi- 
nary usage. The one change will be in the numbers of the hours. In 
social affairs the regulating influence of daylight and darkness will 
always, as now, be paramount. The terms "noon "and "midnight" 
will continue to preserve their present meaning, although the numbers 
of the hours at which these periods occur will vary in each case accord- 
ing to longitude. Each separate meridian will have its own midnight 
hour distinguished from the midnight hours of other meridians by a 
distinctive number. So also with the noon hour, which, as already 
stated, will invariably agree with the longitude of the j)lace. It is the 
midnight hour in each locality which will constitute the initial time- 
point to regulate the legal hours for opening and closing banks, registry, 
and other irablic offices. The midnight hour may be arbitrarily chosen 
and be established by statute as circumstances may demand. It will be 
held to be the local zero to govern the hours of business, working hours, 
the hours for attendance at church, at school, and at places of amuse- 
ment, and generally to regulate all the social affairs of life. While the 
seven week days will practically remain unchanged in every longitude, 
the simple expedient of numbering the hours so that everj'where they 
will correspond with Cosmic Time will result in securing the general 
uniformity to be desired. Thus it will be obvious that in all matters 



NEW TIME-RECKONING. 357 

relating to timej whether local or non-local, the same hours, minutes, 
and seconds will universally be observed at the same instant. In cases 
when business men separated by long distances make contracts by tel- 
egrai)h, the engagements will be free from all ambiguity as to time. 
Both parties will be bound absolutely by the same notation. 

The Cosmic Day is a new measure of time entirely non-local. It will 
be held to be the date of the world, and the change of date will occur 
at the same instant in all longitudes. On the prime meridian the change 
of date will be at midnight ; to the east it will occur after midnight ; 
and to the west of the i^rime meridian it will come before midnight. 
It will be one hour before or after midnight for every fifteen degrees of 
west or east longitude. Fortunately, in nearly all the important coun- 
tries on the surface of the globe, the change of date will occur out of 
ordinary business hours. 

It will thus be seen that while the contemplated reform will interfere 
as little as possible with existing customs, it will result in giving to 
the human family around the globe concurrent dates and in making 
every division of time uniform the world over. 

In the adoption of the new system, temporary inconvenience may 
arise, but it will be trifling in extent and not of long duration ; and any 
momentary disadvantage should not be allowed to weigh against the 
benefits to be secured to mankind for all future ages. 

On the night of November 18, 1883, a noiseless revolution was ef- 
fected throughout the United States and Canada. The hands of the 
clocks of some fifty millions of people were for the most part moved 
forward or backward in order to indicate the time of one of the five 
hour zones. The time now observed from the Atlantic coast to the 
Pacific varies with Cosmic Time, according to situation, from four to 
eight whole hours. In North America, therefore, the portion of the prob- 
lem yet to be adjusted is easy of solution. As the minutes and seconds 
are already everywhere in agreement, the transition to universal uni- 
formity of reckoning can be efiected simply and with ease. It will only be 
necessary to move forward the dial hands of the clocks an even number 
of hours, varying from four to eight, as each case may require, to bring 
the Continent into complete accord with the time of the world. 

When eventually it may become necessary to bring the time through- 
out all parts of North America to the world's standard, the transition 
may be effected by adjusting the clocks as follows: 

I. Cloclcs in the Jiour zones^of the tvest meridians. 

Meridian west. Houra. 

GOO -^ ^ 4 

750 I I 5 

90° )> will have to be moved forward^ 

1050 I 7 

1200 3 [8 

Similarly wherever the scheme of hour meridians be adox)ted the 
common reckoning may with equal ease be secured. To the west of the 



358 MISCELLANEOUS PAPERS. 

prime meridian the clocks will require to be moved forward, to the east 
backward. In Europe, Asia, and Africa the change would thus be 
effected : 

II. Clods in the hour zones of the east meridians. 

Meridian east. Hours. 

150") CI 

30O I 2 

450 I 3 

6O0 r'^ill have to be moved l}ackward-{ . 

750 I 5 

Thus, for example, New Orleans, in the hour zone of the 90th meridian 
west, would have its clocks advanced six hours, while Calcutta, in the 
90th meridian east, would have its clocks retarded six hours. By the 
same simple process of transition, every city and district on the sur- 
face of the globe may be brought to the one common time-reckoning. 

It is a significant fact that at the Washington Conference the prin- 
ciple of Universal Time obtained unanimous recognition from the dele- 
gates of so many nationalities. It is a i^resage that the peoples whom 
they represent will before long be fully impressed with the belief that 
a system of reckoning time uniformly throughout the globe is really 
the one rational system by which it can be noted, and the only system 
which will meet the demands of the human family in coming years. It 
is only step by step that a reform so great can be carried out. More- 
over, although the difliculties to be overcome are undoubtedly serious, 
this much may be said with confidence, that they are less formidable 
than those which have already been conquered. A few years back the 
very question of a universal time for all nations was a theory not only 
new in itself but it was held by many to be wild and Utopian, and so 
impracticable as to be unworthy of consideration. In 1878 the subject 
could not command a hearing at the British Association! Since 1878 
the arguments advanced to point out the necessity of change have, 
however, obtained attention, and a general movement for reform has 
been inaugurated. Scientific and practical men and learned societies 
in both hemispheres have taken part in the consideration of the ques- 
tion. It has formed the subject of discussion at International Con- 
gresses at Venice and Eome. The President and Congress of the United 
States have been induced to take decisive action in connection with it. 
The governments of twenty-five civilized nations have aided in its devel- 
opment. The International Washington Conference itself has greatly 
promoted the solution of the problem by coming to an unanimous de- 
termination on the essential principles to be observed. In several coun- 
tries the recommendations of the conference have already in part been 
acted on, and changes have been effected which a few years back were 
not even dreamed of. 



NEW TIME-RECKONING. 359 

If SO much has been accomplisbed within the eight years since the 
scheme of reform was first promulgated, is it too much to expect that 
the public miud will be prepared in the more advanced communities to 
accept the final step in a like period ? 

In about a dozen years we pass into another century. Is it tak- 
ing too sanguine a view to suggest that by that time all nations will 
be willing to accept the change, and that the first day of January in 
the Twentieth Century may appropriately be inaugurated by the adop- 
tion of one uniform system of reckoning time throughout the world ? 

I learn from the recent lecture of the Astronomer Eoyal that the Board 
of Visitors of Greenwich Observatory^ have unanimously recommended 
that, in accordance with the resolutions of the Washington Conference, 
the Astronomical day should in the English Nautical Almanac be ar- 
ranged from the year 1891 (the earliest practicable date) to begin at 
Greenwich midnight, so as to agree with the civil reckoning, and further 
that steps have been taken to give effect to this recommendation ; thus 
in a few years this source of confusion to sailors navigating ships using 
the Nautical Almanac — embracing at least 70 per cent, of the tonnage of 
the world — will be removed. The distinguished Eussian Astronomer, 
Struve, has suggested that all astronomers throughout the world should 
simultaneously abandon Astronomical Time and bring their notation 
into harmony with the civil reckoning. He further suggests that this 
reform should be introduced into the publications of observatories at 
the initial day of the century. In reference to this the Astronomer 
Eoyal, Greenwich, says (October, 1885) "it would be intolerable to have 
a fundamental question of time-reckoning left open for fifteen years," 
and urges that the step be taken ten years earlier. Be that as it may 
with regard to the assimilation of the astronomical and civil notations 
no one can question that the change of the century is an appropriate 
period for effecting the complete unification of time, and doing away 
with all the errors of our present mode of reckoning. Every auxiliary 
circumstance points to the possibility of that result being attained. The 
proceedings of the Washington Conference have given the movement 
an immense impulse. Its members have authoritatively recognized the 
principles on which the new notation may be established. So unim- 
peachable and simple are these principles as to be within the grasp of 
the most limited comprehension. In their application we may have to 
contend against the prejudices engendered by habit and custom, but 
the i^riuciples of reckoning time adopted by the conference are based 
on truth and they commend themselves to every one of intelligence, as 
the proper means to meet the admitted emergency. The unanimity 
with which the standard hour system was brought into common use in 
]tsorth America is an evidence that the age is sufiiciently intelligent to 
adopt a reform when its advantages are understood. It will doubtless 
require the lapse of some years to win over those who feel it- to be a 
bounden duty to cling to old institutions and existing customs. Grad- 



360 MISCELLANEOUS PAPERS. 

ually, however, the minds of the great mass of men will become famil- 
iarized with the new ideas and in the end the new system of notation 
can not fail to prevail. The main obstacles to bo overcome are the 
restraints which tradition imposes and the usages which our ancestors 
have transmitted to us. But prejudices of this character can be gradu- 
ally and certainly surmounted, if the true principles of time-reckoning 
be taught in schools and colleges. In a few years the youth of to-day 
will be moving actors in life, to influence public opinion and so effect 
an easy escape from the thraldom of custom. We have therefore good 
grounds for the belief that, by the dawn of the coming century, the 
civilized nations may enjoy a system of notation limited to no locality; 
when the record of the events of history will be unmarked by doubt; 
when ambiguity in hours and dates will be at an end ; when every 
division of time will be concurrent in all longitudes. 

These expectations realized, the Washington Conference will have 
rendered a great service to mankind. If the reforms of B. C. 46 and 
A. D. 1582 owed their origin to the dominant necessity of removing 
confusion in connection with the notations which existed in the then 
conditions of the human race, in no less degree is another reform de- 
manded by the new conditions which are presented in this age. Ob- 
viously the needed change could not be consummated at a more suitable 
period than at the beginning of the new century, but whether effected 
at that or an earlier date, a provision is made for the change in the 
conclusions and recommendations of the Washington Conference — a 
conference wiiich, representing all civilized nations and having estab- 
lished the fundamental principles of the new notation, must be held by 
future generations to mark an epoch in the annals of the world not 
less important than those of the reforms of Julius Caesar and Pope 
Gregory XIII. 

SUPPLEMENTARY NOTE. 

TIME EECKONING FROM THE PROCEEDINGS OF THE CANADIAN INSTITUTE 18T8-'T9. 

(Extract.) 

Persons who inhabit different sections of the earth differ from each other in their 
reckoning of the day. At one place it is noon, at another it is midnight; at a third 
it is sunrise, at a fourth it is sunset. In consequence we have the elements of con- 
fusion, which involve in some cases the mistake of a whole day. 

People even living in the same meridian may differ a day in their usual reckoning 
of time, according as the countries they inhabit have been colonized fiom the one 
side or the other of the globe. There are instances in the Pacific Ocean where islands 
almost adjacent reckon by different days of the month and week; a circumstance 
calculated to produce much confusion when intercourse becomes frequent. 

In Alaska the days of the week and month were one day in advance of those in the 
adjacent colonj' of British Columbia, iudocd of the whole of America. On the ad- 
vent of citizens of the United States a few years ago, when that territory was trans- 
ferred by Russia, the Saturday was found to be the Sunday of the old residents. For 
ordinary business pur^iosea a change became necessary, and a dispensation was 
granted iu 1871 by the dignitaries of the Greek Church in Russia, authorizing their 



NEW TIME-RECKONING. 361 

missionaries and adherents in Alaska to celebrate Sunday a day later, or on Monday, 
according to the old reckoning. 

The reverse has been met in another quarter of the globe. The Philippine Inlands, 
lying between Australia and Asia, and about 100 degrees of longitude to the west of 
Alaska, were discovered in 1521 by the illustrious Magellan in his memorable first cir- 
cumnavigation of the globe. That navigator followed the sun in his path around the 
world. Legjispi succeeded him and took posses&ion of these important islands in the 
name of Philip II, King of Spain, The Philippine Islands extend for a thousand miles 
from north to south, they embrace Manilla, one of the oldest citiesof the Indies, and they 
contain a population of 5,000,000. They were colonized, as well as discovered, by 
Spaniards coming from the East, and as a consequence the reckoning of the inhab- 
itants has for more than three centuries remained a day behind the day in British 
India and the neighboring countries in Asia. 

Travelers who arrive at New Zealand or the Australian colonies by the San Fran- 
cisco route meet the same difference, owing to the fact that the countries in the South 
Pacific were colonized from the West. The day of the week and of the month carried 
from San Francisco never agrees with the day and date reckoned by the inhabitants 
at the destination of the steamer. 

All travelers who have made the voyage between America and Asia have expe- 
rienced the diiFiculty in reckoning referred to. Those who have jiroceeded westward 
have lost, while those who have traveled eastward have gained a day. In Mrs. 
Brassey's Around the World in the Yacht Simheam, this experience is recorded. The 
journal of that lady passes from Wednesday, January 10, directly to Friday, January 
12 — Thursday, January 11, having no existence with the travelers. 

In sailing across the Pacific from west to east, one day has to be repeated before 
landing on the American coast. If, for example, the correction be made on Wednes- 
day, 1st July, there will be two Wednesdays in the one week, and two days of the 
month dated July 1. 

A journey round the world is now an everyday undertaking, and is accomplished 
with comparative ease. Suppose two travelers set out from a given place, one going 
eastwardly, the other westwardly. A singular circumstance will result when they 
both return to the common starting point, and the reason is obvious. One man will 
arrive, according to his reckoning, say on Tuesday, December 31, when in fact at 
that locality it is Wednesday, January 1. The other traveler, assuming that he has 
kept accurately a daily journal, will enter in his diary on precisely the same day, 
Thursday, January 2. This consequence has been brought out by Edgar Allen Poe, 
in his amusing story of "Three Sundays in one Week," but it no longer can be held 
to be an imagiuary contingency, since steam communication by land and water is 
now affording extraordinary facilities for making the tour of the globe. 

To illustrate the difiSculty more particularly. First, let us select points in four 
quarters of the globe, each about 90 degrees apart, say in Japan, Arabia, Newfound- 
a nd, and Alaska. If we assume it to be Sunday midnight at the first-mentioned 
place, it must be noon at the opposite point, Newfoundland, but on what day is it 
noon? Arabia being to the west of Japan, the local time there will be 6 p. m,, on 
Sunday, and Alaska, lying to the east of Japan, the time there will be G a. m. on Mon- 
day. Again, when the clock indicates G p. m. on Sunday in Arabia, it must be Sunday 
noon at a point 90 degrees farther west, or at Newfoundland ; when it is G a. m. on Mon- 
day in Alaska, it must be noon on Monday 90 degrees farther east, also at Newfound- 
land. Thus, by tracing local time east and west from a given point to its antipodes, 
the clock on the one hand becomes twelve hours slower, on the other hand twelve 
hours faster. In the case in point, while it is midnight on Sunday in Japan, at pre- 
cisely the same moment it is noon at Newfoundland on two distinct days, viz, on Sun- 
day and on Monday. 

Secondly, let us trace local time only in one direction around the earth. The day 
does not begin everywhere at the same moment. Its commencement travels from 



6bz MISCELLANEOUS PAPERS. 

east to west with the sun, as the earth revolves in the opposite direction, and it 
takes an entire revolution of the globe on its axis for the day everywhere to he en- 
tered on. Immediately on the completion of one revolution the inception of any one 
day ends, and at this moment the end of the day begins; and the globe must make 
another complete revolution before the end of the day entirely finishes. The globe 
must in fact make two entire revolutions before any one week day runs out, conse- 
quently each and every day of the week runs over forty-eight hours ; and, taking 
the whole globe into account, two civil days always co-exist. The first twenty-four 
hours of one day co-exist with the last twenty-four hours of its predecessor, while 
the remaining twenty-four hours co-exist with the first twenty-four hours of the day 
which follows. 

It is difficult to accept the fact that any one day lasts more than twenty-four hours; 
but it can be demonstrated that it is the case. Let us place together several maps of 
the world on Mercator's ''Projection," so as to represent, in consecutive order, each 
pa,rt of the earth's surface as it passes the sun during several diurnal revolutions. 
(See plate). 

AA\ A^A"^, are intended to represent each a comjjlete map of the world. Within 
each of these limits every place on the earth's surface is brought under the sun during 
a daily revolution. 

The vertical lines 7J I N B F represent meridians, for the sake of simplicity selected 
60 degrees apart, and the stars or dots at their intersection denote the beginning and 
end of a day on each of the six meridians. As the earth revolves, the sun passes suc- 
cessively the meridians of those localities, with an interval of four hours elapsing be- 
tween each. 

Let us assume it to be 12 o'clock midnight on Thursday at meridian A. At that 
moment and at that i)lace Friday begins and runs for twenty-four hours, or on the 
diagram from A to AK 

Four hours later Friday begins on meridian E, and runs four hours on the second 
map, or into the second revolution of the earth. Four hours still later Friday begins 
on meridian / and runs eight on the second map or into the second revolution. This 
goes on from spot to spot, until at last the commencement of Friday reaches the last 
meridian, and at that point Friday runs entirely across the second map to A^. Thus 
Friday begins at A, runs during two complete revolutions of the earth, as shown on 
the map from A to A'^. 

The diagram will thus illustrate the duration of every day in the week, and it be- 
comes obvious, when we take a general view of the whole globe on any given day, 
say Saturday, that day begins in the middle of Friday and does not end until the 
middle of Sunday. Friday, on the other hand, beginning in the middle of Thursday, 
runs into the middle of Saturday, while Sunday commences at the moment Friday 
ends. To state the case differently : the same moment of absolute time which is part 
of Saturday in one place, is equally part of Friday and of Sunday in some other 
places east and west. 

It is a iireconceived idea with many that there is a simultaneons Sunday over the 
earth, and that Christians in every meridian keep the Lord's day at one and the same 
time. Facts, however, establish that this is a mistake. From its first commence- 
ment to its final ending, the Sunday extends over forty-eight hours. Indeed, if we 
take into account the remarkable circumstance mentioned with regard to Alaska and 
tbo Philippine Islands, Sunday has been discovered to run over some fifty-five hours. 
The same may be said of any day in the week ; and as a consequence we have, taking 
the whole globe into view, Saturday and Monday running over the intervening Sun- 
day to overlap each other about seven hours. We have, in fact as a constant occur- 
rence, portions of three consecutive days co-existent. 

From the fact that not only are the hours of the day different in every meridian, 
but that difl"erent days are constantly in progress on the face of the globe, it is a difli- 
cult matter under our present system of reckoning to assign relatively the hour and 



NEW TiME-EECKONINa. 



363 



X 5=^ 



73 



a 



Y 



73 




m 






rn 



■■x,-^* 











3 



^ 






m 



^ 



^ 




364 MISCELLANEOUS PAPERS. 

day when events take place. "We may learn of an occurrence, and the time assigned 
will be correct in the meridian of the locality. Everywhere else it will be inaccurate. 
Indeed, if the fact of the occurrence be transmitted over the world by telegraph, it 
may, in some places, be recorded on difterent days.* If the incident occurs at the 
close of a mouth, or a year, it may actiially take j)laco in two different mouths, or two 
distinct years. 

Under our present system it is quite possible for two events to take place several 
hours apart, the first and older occurring in the new year in one locality; the second, 
although the more recent in absolute time, falling, in another locality, within the 
old year. The same may be said of events that occur during the period which elapses 
when one century merges into another. In one part of the globe the same event may 
transpire in the nineteenth century, while in another it falls within the twentieth 
century. 

Another difficulty, forced on the attention by the science of the century, is mainly 
due to the agency of electricity, employed as a means of telegraphy, and to steam 
applied to locomotives. These extraordinary sister agencies having [revolutionized 
the relation of distance and time, having bridged space, and drawn into closer affin- 
ity portions of the earth's surface previously sci)arated by long and, in sonic cases, 
iuaccessiblo distances. 

Let us take the case of a traveler in North America. He lands at Halifax in Nova 
Scotia, amd starts by a railway to Chicago through the eastern portions of Canada. 
His route is over the Intercolonial, the Grand Trunk, and other lines. He stoi>s at 
St. John, Quebec, Montreal, Ottawa, Toronto, Hamilton, and Detroit. At the begin- 
ning of the journey he sets his watch by Halifax time. As he reaches each place in 
succession, he finds a considerable variation in the clocks by which the trains are 
run, and he discovers that at no two places is the same time used. Between Halifax 
and Chicago he finds the railways observing no less than seven different standards of 
time. If the traveller remains at any one of the cities referred to, he must alter his 
watch to avoid inconvenience, and perhaps not a few disappointments and annoy- 
ances to himself and others. If, however, he should not alter his watch, he would 
discover on reaching Chicago that it was an hour and thirty-five minutes faster than 
the clocks and watches in that city. 

If his journey be made by one of the routes through the United States, the varia- 
tion in time and its inconveniences will not be less. If he extends his journey west 
of Chicago, traveling from place to place until he reaches San Francisco, he will meet 
continual change, and finally discovers a loss in time of nearly four hours (3h. GGm,). 
Between the extreme points there are many standards of time, each city or place of 
importance generally being governed by its own meridian. Hence the discrepancies 
which xierplex the traveler in moving from place to place. 

On the continent of Europe, and indeed wherever lines of communication extend 
between points differing to any considerable extent in longitude, the same difficulty 
is experienced. -On a journey from Paris to Vienna or to St. Petersburg, the stand- 
ard time employed by the railways changes frequently, and the extreme diflerence in 
time between the first and last city is nearly two hours. As railways and telegraphs 
are extended in Eussia, the inconveniences will become of serious importance in that 
country. Within the limits of Russia in Europe and Asia, the extreme variations of 
time is about twelve hours. 

Suppose we take the case of a person traveling from London to India. He starts 
with Greenwich time, but he scarcely leaves the shores of England when he finds his 
watch no longer right. Paris time is usfed for the journey until that of Rome be- 
comes the standard. At Brindisi there is another change. Up the Mediterranean 
ships' time is used. At Alexandria Egyi)tian time is the standard. At Suez, ships' 

*TiME AND THE TELEGRAPH.— A message dated Simla, l.r)5 a. ni. Wednesday, was 
received in London at 11.47 p. m. on Tuesday. As the clerk said, with pardonable 
confusion, " Why, this message was sent off to-morrow."— Times. 



NEW TIME-EECKONING. 365 

time is resumed, and coutiunes, witli daily changes, until India is readied. Arriving 
at Bombay, the traveler M'ill find two standards employed, local time and railvs-ay 
time, the latter being that of Madras. If he has not altered his watch since he left 
England, ho will find it some five hours slow. Should ho continue his journey to 
Chiua, it will have fallen eight hours behind. 

In the United Kingdom the difficulties due to longitude are only felt in a modified 
form. The greater island, embracing England and Scotland, is comparatively limited 
in width ; one standard of time is therefore used. It is only in respect to the sister 
island, Ireland, that the difference in longitude calls for a diflerence in time. In the 
whole United Kingdom, consequently, there are practically only two standards, viz, 
Greenwich time and Irish time, the difference being twenty-fir^ minutes. No one, 
therefore, whose experience has been confined to the United Kingdom, can form an 
adequate idea of the extent of the inconvenience arising from the causes alluded to, 
where geographical circumstances render necessary the use of a multiplicity of stand- 
ards. 

The railway system is the principal agent in the developing of the difficulties re- 
ferred to, and the still further extension of steam communications in great continental 
lines is forcing the subject on public attention. Canada supplies a good illustration 
of what is occurring. The railways built and projected will extend from the eastern 
coast of Newfoundland on the Atlantic to the western coast of British Columbia on 
the Pacific, embracing about 7IJ° of longitude. Every Canadian city has its own 
time. Innumerable eettleraents are now being formed throughout the country 
ultimately to be traversed by railways; and in a few years scores of populous towns 
and cities will spring up in the now uninhabited territories between the two oceans. 
Each of these places will have its own local time, and the difference between the 
clocks at the two extremes of Canada will be fully u\c hours. The difficulties which 
will ultimately arise from this state of things are apparent. They are already in 
some degree felt, they are year by year increasing, and will at no distant day be- 
come seriously inconvenient. This is the case not in Canada alone, but all the world 
over. 

The division of the day into two halves, each containing twelve hours, and each 
li-TAmbexed from 1 to 12, is also a fertile source of error and inconvenience. 

Travelers who have had occasion to consult railway guides and steam-boat time- 
tables will be familiar with the inconvenience resulting from this cause; none know 
better by experience how much the divisions anie meridian and post meridian have 
baffled their inquiries, and how often these arbitrary divisions have led to mistakes. 
Were it necessary, innumerable instances could be given. The evil, however, is one 
80 familiar that it has come to bo looked upon as unavoidable, and is, as a matter of 
course, silently endured. 

The halving of the day has doubtless long been in use, but beyond its claim to 
antiquity, is a custom that confers not a single benefit, and is marked by nothing to 
recommend it. 

SCHEME OF COSMIC OR UNIVEKSAL TIME. 

1. That a system of universal time be established, with the view of facilitating 
synchronous scientific observations, for chronological reckonings, for the purpose of 
trade and commerce by sea and land, and for all such uses to which it is applicable. 

2. That the system be established for the common observance of all peoples, and 
of such a character that it may be adopted by each separate community, as may be 
found expedient. 

3. That the system be based on the principle that for all terrestrial time-reckonings 
there be one recognized unit of measurement only, and that all measured intervals 
of time bo directly related to the one-unit measure. 

4. That the unit measure be the period occupied by the diurnal revolution of the 
earth, defined by the mean solar passage at the meridian twelve hours from the prime 
meridian established through Greenwich. 



366 MISCELLANEOUS PAPERS. 

5. That the unit measure defined as above he held to be a day absolute, and desig- 
nated a cosmic day. 

6. That such cosmic day be held as the chronological date of the earth, changing 
■with the mean solar passage at the auti-meridian of Greenwich. 

7. That all divisions and multiples of the cosmic day be known as cosmic time. 

8. That the cosmic day be divided into hours, numbered iu a single series, one to 
twenty-four (1 to 24), and that the hours be subdivided, as ordinary hours, into min- 
utes and seconds. 

Note. — As an alternative means of distinguishing the cosmic hours from the hours 
in local reckonings, they may be denoted by the letters of the alphabet, which, omit- 
ting I and V, are twenty-four iu uumber. 

9. That until cosmic time be accepted as the recognized means of reckoning in the 
ordinary affairs of life, it is advisable to assimilate the system to present usages, and 
to provide for the easy translation of local reckonings into cosmic time, and vice versa; 
that, therefore, in theory, and as closely as possible in practice, local reckonings be 
based on a known interval in advance or behind cosmic time. 

10. That the surface of the globe be divided by twenty-four equi-distant hour-merid- 
ians, corresponding with the hours of the cosmic day. 

11. That, as far as practicable, the several hour-meridians be taken according to 
the longitude oftho locality, to regulate local reckonings, iu a manner similar to the 
system in use throughout North America. 

12. That in all cases where an hour-meridian is adopted as the standard for regulat- 
ing local reckonings in a particular section or district, the civil day shall be held to 
commence twelve hours before, and end twelve hours after, the mean solar passage 
of such hour meridian. 

13. That the civil day, based on the prime meridian of Greenwich, shall coincide 
and be one with the cosmic day. That civil days on meridians east of Greenwich 
shall be (according to the longitude) a known number of hours, or hours and min- 
utes, in advance of cosmic time, and to the west of Greenwich the contrary. 

14. That the surface of the globe being divided by twenty-four equi-distant merid- 
ians (fifteen degrees apart) corresponding with the hours of the cosmic day, it is 
advisable that longitude be reckoned according to these hour-meridians. 

15. That divisions of longitude less than an hour (fifteen degrees) be reckoned in 
minutes and seconds and jiarts of seconds. 

16. That longitude be reckoned continuously towards the west, beginning with zero 
at tlie anti-prime meridian, twelve hours from Greenwich. 

17. That longitude generally be denoted by the same terms as those applied to cos- 
mic time. 



REPORT ON ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATORIES. 



By Gkorcie II. J3oeumek. 



INTRODUCTORY NOTE. 

Ill tlie Annual Eeport of the Smithsonian Institution for 1879 Prof. 
E. S. Holden, then connected with the U. S. Naval Observatory at 
Washington, published a preliminaiy account of astronomical observa- 
tories, principally American, although reports of a few foreign observa- 
tories, translated from the " Vierteljahrsschrift der Astronomischen 
Gesellschaft," were incorporated. 

In the beginning of 18S0 a circular* was sent to the directors of 
observatories, requesting their cooperation in the continuation of the 
work. Professor Holden, however, having accepted a call to Madison, 
Wis., as director of the Washburn Observatory, the editing of the notes 
received was entrusted to the writer, and the result was published in 
the Smithsonian Annual Eeport for 1880 (pp. G23-730). 

Since then, by correspondence, a large amount of material has been 
collected, and this is now presented, classified under the two heads : I. 
American observatories, and II. Foreign observatories. iSTotwithstand- 
ing, however, the care given by comparison with other works on the 
subject, such as "A. Lancaster, Liste Generale des Observatoires et des 
Astronomes," "XJ. S. Nautical Almanac," " Connaissance des Temps," 
'^ Astronomische Nachrichten," etc., the report is not regarded as com- 
l)lete ; and the directors of the observatories and astronomers generally 
into whose hands the paper may come are earnestly requested to freely 
criticise it and to furnish the corrections and additions necessary to 
secure, for another year, a more correct and complete account of their 
resj)ective observatories. 

*Smitbsoniau Auuual Kcnort, 18^0, p. b'So. 

[K7 



368 ASTRONOMICAL OBSEKVATOEIES. 

I. AMERICAN OBSERVATOIIIES 

Akron, Ohio. 

Buchtel College Observatory. 

Longitude from Wasliiugtou, . 

Latitude, . 

Director^ . 

Albany, New York. 

Dudley Observatory. 

Longitude from Wasbingtou, 13"' 12.87* E. 
Latitude, 42° 39' 49.5" N. 
Directors : B. A. Gould, 1854.. 

O. M. MiTCHEL, 1859. 

G. H. Hough, 18G2. 

L. Boss, 1875. 
Founded in 1851, by subscription, the principal subscriber being Mrs. 
Blandina Dudley. Built in the form of a cross, with wings east and 
west for the meridian instruments. Finished in 1854, and inaugurated 
in 1856. 

Alfred Center, New York. 

Observatory of Alfred University. 

Longitude from Washington, 2'" 55" W. 
Latitude, 42° 15' 19.8" N. 
Instructors : Prof. A. B. Kenyon, 
Frof. n. C. Coon. 
The observatory has not been used for original research, but only for 
class instruction, 

Allegheny City, Pennsylvania. 

Allegheny Observatory. 

Longitude from Washington, 11'" 50.84« W. 
Latitude, 40° 27' 41.G" N. 
Director: S. P. Langley. 

Founded in 1860, enlarged in 1873, and further enlarged in 1881. 
Equipped in 1867, principally through the liberality of W. Thaw, of 
Pittsburgh, to whom its subsequent accessions are also largely due. 
The dome, 22 feet in diameter, contains the equatorial. 

The observatory in 1870, under its present director, inaugurated an^ 



ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATORIES. 3G9 

carried into active operation the system of time service on a scale then, 
and probably still, as regards the systematic distribution of time to rail- 
roads, tlie most extensive in the country. The observatory is the stand- 
ard of time for a large portion of the railroads connecting tlie Atlantic 
and the Mississippi. It is better known by its investigations in solar 
physics, to which the director has given his i)rincipal attention for the 
last ten years. 

Instruments : 

{b) 2Leridian transit instruments: Makers, Troughton & Simms ; 
aperture, 4 inches ; magnifying power, 150 diameters. 

(c) Equatorial instruments : Makers, Fitz, reworked by Clark; aper- 
ture of objective, 13 inches ; magnifying powers of eye-pieces, 50 to 
1,200; equatorial carries a 12-inch flat mirror by Clark at south end of 
its polar axis; also, position filar micrometer, polarizing solar eye-piece ; 
apparatus for projecting solar image ; eight other subsidiary pieces. 

{(1) Spectroscopes: One employing large Eutherfurd grating; one 
with small grating ; one 2-prism spectroscope ; apparatus for using large 
equatorial as collimator, etc. 

(e) Photometers and other suhsidiary apparatus: A variety of ther- 
mopiles, used in connection with a Tho3IPSON reflecting galvanometer; 
large Bunsen photometer ; small portable heliostat, etc. 

(/) Chronographs : One of Bond's pattern, built by Hamblet. 

{g) Clods : Mean time; two by Howard, both break-circuit : sidereal; 
one by Frodsham, break-circuit. 

(/i) Chronometers : Mean time ; one by Frodsham : sidereal ; one Frod- 
SHAM, break- circuit. 

(?) Miscellaneous : One reflecting telescope of 6J-inch aperture, spe- 
cially used for obtaining an image, projected any size without the em- 
ployment of any enlarging lenses; one Foucault siderostat and a large 
number of special pieces of ai>paratus for the study of radiant heat. 

The observatory has never issued any regular series of annals; for 
abstracts of the results of its work reference must be made to the 
Comptes Eendus de I'Institut de France, to the Memoirs of the U. S. 
National Academy, to the pages of the American Journal of Science, of 
the Aunales de Chimie et Physique, Wiedemann's Anualen, and to 
various foreign and domestic scientific journals. 

Electric appliances for the distribution of exact time, automatically 
and contiuuously to points outside the observatory. 

Amherst, Massachitsetts. 

The Lawrence Observatory of Amherst College, 

Longitude from Washington, 18'" 1.8' E. 
Latitude, 12^ 22' 15.G" N. 
Director : David P. ToDD. 
H. Mis. 170 24 



370 astronomical observatories. 

Ann Arbor, Michigan. 

Detroit Observatory. 

Longitufle from Washington, 2G"' 43.1* W. 
Latitiule, 42o IG' 48" N. 
Directors : F. Brunnow, 1854. 

J. C. Watson, LS58. 

M. W. Harrington, 1879. 
Annex of the University of Michigan. Projected in 1852, commenced 
in 1853, completed in 1854. The principal structure is surmounted by a 
dome and has two wings. About thirty planetoids have been discov- 
ered here. 

Annapolis. Maryland. 

U. S. Naval Academy Observatory. 

Longitude from Washington, 2'" 15.G1» E. 
Latitude, 38° 58' 53.48" X. 

Authority for longitude, U. S. Coast Survey; for latitude, Professor 
Chauvenet. 

Director: Lieut. Commander P. F. Harrington, head of department 
of astronomj', navigation, and surveying. 

The officers attached to tbe observatory are occupied in duties of in- 
struction in the department of astronomy, navigation, and surveying. 
The instruments are used in the course of instruction, but regular ob 
servatious are not made for purposes of astronomical investigation. 
Instruments : 

{a) Meridian circle: One; maker, Eepsold, Germany; diameter of 
circles, 30 inches; divided to 2'; read by 4 microscopes to 2". Aperture 
of objective, 4 inches; for observations of the sun, aperture employed, 
— inches; magnifying power ordinarily employed, 80 diameters. 

(b) Meridian transit instrument: Maker, Wurdemann; aperture, 2 
inches ; magnifying power, 40 diameters. 

(c) Equatorial instrument: Makers, Alt AN Clark & Sons; aperture 
of objective, 7^ inches; magnifying power of eye-pieces, 40, 106,553, 
and 9GG; micrometer eye-pieces, 89, 226, 673. 

(/) Chronograplis : One Morse fillet; one Transit of Venus Commis- 
sion. 

(<7) Clod:: One sidereal; makers, Arnold, Chas. Frodsham, London. 

(Ii) Chronometers : Five mean time; makers, Negus, IS'os. 1030, 1088, 
1260; Dent, 2,099; Hatton, 2G2: two sidereal; maker, Negus, Nos. 
1520, 1527. 

(«■) Miscellaneous: One Talcott's zenith telescope (Wurdemann); one 
Transit of Venus telescope (Stackpole); portable transit (WiJRDE- 

MANN). 



ASTEONOMIOAL OBSERVATORIES. 371 

BALTmoRE, Maryland. 
Denmore Ohser vafory. 

Longitude fioni Washington, . 

Latitude, . 

Director: . 

Barnesville, Ohio. 

Olney Observatory. 

Longitude from Washington (about), 16'" W. 
Latitude (about), 40^ X. 

Authority for longitude and latitude, A. von Steiuwehr's map of Ohio. 
Director: Charles E. CIause, Jr. 

Xo sj-stematic observations. Instruments used only for purjiose of 
class instruction. 

Battle Creek, Michigan. 

High ScJiool Observatory. 

Longitude from Washington, . 

Latitude, - — . 

Director: Arthur K. Bartlett. 
Instruments : 

(a) Meridian circle : One; aperture of objective, 4 inches ; for obser- 
vations of the sun, aperture employed, 2 to 4 inches; magnifying power 
ordinarily employed, 75 diameters. 

{i) Miscellaneous : The only instrument at present used in the ob- 
servatory is a 4-inch achromatic telescope, which was purchased by the 
board of education about nine years ago, for the use of students and 
teachers in the high school. It was manufactured by Pike, the IS'ew 
York optician, and is mounted upon a portable tripod stand, provided 
with all the necessary adjustments. For the general observations of 
astronomy it is regarded as one of the best telescopes in this State. 

Beloit, Wisconsin. 

Smith Observatory of Beloit College. 

Longitude from Washington, . 

Latitude, . 

Director: . 

Brooklyn, Xew York. 

I. Private Observatory of Mr. W. T. Gregg. 

Longitude from Washington, . 

Latitude, . 

Director: W. T. Gregg. 

(c) Equatorial instrument: Maker, William T. Gregg; aperture of 
objective, G^ inches; magnifying powers of eye-pieces, 50 to GOO. 



372 ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATORIES. 



II. Private Observatory. 



Longitude from WashiDgton, 

Latitude, 

Director: G. P. Serviss. 
Instruments : 

(c) Equatorialinstruments : Oue telescope; maker, John Byrne, of 
New York ; aperture of objective, 3| iucLes ; magnifyiug powers of eye- 
pieces, 50, 100, 100, 250, and 320. 

(i) Miscellaneous : The director remarks : " My telescope is mounted 
equatorially on a tripod stand. The objective is of excellent quality. 
I can see the companion of a Lyra) and both the debilissima in ejjsilon 
Lyrfe with ease. It also easily separates double stars only 1.5" apart. 
Under favorable circumstauces I have seen five of Saturn's moons. I 
have no observatory, and my observations are made from lofty windows 
having a southerly and westerly exposure, and occasionally from the 
roof of my residence on Brooklyn Heights. In observing Jupiter and 
Saturn I ordinarily employ powers of 100 and 250, and occasionally 320. 
Fcr special purposes I have used a power of 480 with good effect." 

Buffalo, New York. 

I. Private Observatory. 

Longitude from Washington, , 

Latitude, . 

Director: James W. Ward. 

Instruments : 

[h) Meridiaii transit instrument. 

(c) Equatorial instrument : Maker, John Byrne, New York City ; 
aperture of objective, 4 inches ; magnifying powers of eye-pieces, GO, SO, 
130, 200, 330, 400 ; useful with Barlow lens to 550. 

[li) Chronometer : One mean time ; maker, Samuels, Liverpool. 

(t) Miscellaneous : Dollond, If inches, used roughly on alt azimuth 
swivel for southern transits, etc. 

II. Private Observatory. 

Longitude from W^ashiugton, 7'" 21.G5* W. 

Latitude, 42° 54' 9.5" N. 

Authority for longitude and latitude: lieport for 18G2 of the regents 

of University of State of New York. 
Director: Henry' Mills. 
Instruments: 
(c) Telescope not equatorial; maker, Bardon; aperture of objective, 
3 inches; magnifying powers of eye-pieces, 50 to 250. 



astronomical observatoeies. 373 

Cambridge, Massachusetts. 

I. Private Ohscrvaiory. 

Loiigitudc from Wasliin.e;ton, 23'" 4l.2G« E. 
Latitude, 42^ 22' 58.8" N. 
Director : E. L. Trouvelot. 

II. The Astronomical Observatory of Harvard College. 

J.ou<;\tm\e from Wasbingtoii, 23'" 41.11" E. 
Latitiulc, 420 22' 48.3" N. 
Directors: W. C. Bond, 1839. 
G. P. Bond, 1359. 

J. WiNLOCK, 18GC. 

Edward C. Pickering, 187G. 

Annexed to Harvard College; projected in 1815; ground acquired in 
1842; instruments set up in 1844-'4S; a central tower and dome, two 
wings, M'ith a small dome on tbe western wing-. Here it was that G. P. 
Bond discovered in 1848 tbe seventb satellite of Saturn (Hyperion), 
and in 1850 tbe dusky interior ring inside tbe brigbt rings of tbat planet. 
Among tbe cbronograpbs, tbis observatory possesses tbe original in- 
strument of W. C. Bond, mounted in 1850. 
Instruments : 

(a) Meridian circle: Makers, Trougiiton & SiMMS (glasses by Al- 
VAN Clark & Sons); diameter of circles, oO incbes; divided to 5'; 
eacb circle read by 4 microscopes to 0.1"; aperture of objective, 8^ 
incbes; for observations of tbe sun, aperture employed, 8^ incbes; 
magnifying jiower ordinarily employed, 300 to 350 diameters, (a') East 
transit circle, by Troughton & Simms ; diameter of circles, 48 incbes ; 
divided to 5' ; eacb circle read by 4 microscopes to 0.2" ; aperture of 
objective, 41 incbes. 

{h) Meridian transit instruments : One made by Herbst, of Pulkowa; 
aperture, 2f incbes; magnifying power, up to 200 diameters, {h') 
Large pbotometer, mounted in tbe meridian, for comparing images of 
stars during transit. 

(c) Equatorial instruments : One made by Merz ; aperture of object- 
ive, 15 incbes; magnifying powers of eye-pieces, 100 to 2,000. (c') 
West equatorial, by Alvan Clark & Sons ; a})erture, o^ incbes. 

{d) Spectroscopes : Tbree, described in vol. viii of tbe Annals of tbe 
Observatory. 

(e) Photometers and other subsidiary apparatus : One Zollner pbo- 
tometer, and several pbotometers of otber kinds. 

(/) Chronographs : Two spring governors, by W. Bond & Son ; one 
small barrel cbronograpb. 

[g) Clods : One mean time; maker, Bond, 394; one sidereal; makerSj 
Frodsham, 1327 ; Bond, 312. 



374 ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATORIES. 

(h) Chronometers: Two sidereal; makers, Feodsham, 3451; Bond, 
236 ; oue thermometric chronometer, Frodsham, 3424. 

(i) Miscellaneous : Comet-seeker and other small telescopes and ap- 
paratus. 

Cambridgeport, Massachusetts. 

Private Observatory. 

Longitude from Washington, 23" 49* E. (approximately). 
Latitude, 42o 21' 56" 1^. (approximately). 
Director: E. F. Sawyer. 

Chicago, Illinois. 

Bcarhorn Observatory. 

Longitude from Washington, 42"^ 14.69* W. 
Latitude, 41^ 5'J' 1" K 
Directors : T. H. Safford, 1865. 
Elias Colbert, 1874. 
G. W. Hough, 1879. 

Annexed to the university. Founded by subscription in 1822. 
Instruments: 

(a) Meridian circle : Makers, Eepsold & Son ; diameter of circle, 40 
inches; divided to 2'; read by 4 microscopes to 0.1"; aperture of object- 
ive, 6 inches ; for observations of the sun, aperture employed, 3 inches. 

(c) Equatorial instrument : Makers, Alvan Clark & Sons; aperture 
of objective, 18 J inches ; magnifying i)owers of eye-pieces, positive, 120, 
190, 287, 385, 900; negative, 135, 225, 450, 900. 

(/) Chronograph: G. W. Hough; cylinder recording. 

{g) Clocks: One mean time ; makers, Howard &Co. ; Graham es- 
capement, mercury pendulum ; one sidereal ; makers, Charles Gort- 
ner & Co., London ; Graham escapement, mercury pendulum. 

(70 Chronometer: Sidereal; makers, Bond & Son. 

{i) Misccllaneoiis : Signal mean time clock for transmitting time sig- 
nals. 

Cincinnati, Ohio. 

Cincinnati Observatory. (See Mount Loolout.) 

Clinton, New York. 
Litchfield Observatory of Hamilton College. 

Longitude from Washington, 6«» 34.05* E. 
Latitude, 43° 3' 17" N. 
Authority for longitude and latitude: Longitude telegraphically de- 
termined from Cambridge, Mass. Latitude by stars in prime 
vertical. 
Director : C. W. F. Peters. 
Founded in 1852 by subscription; completed in 1855; central edifice 



ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATORIES. 375 

-with M'iugs east aiul west. Forty-two i)Ianetoi(ls have been discoverecl 
here. 

Instruments : 

{b) Meridian transit instrument: Maker, W. Wurdemann, Washing- 
ton, D. C. ; aperture 2i inches ; magnifying i)ower, — diameters. 

(e) Eqiiatorial instrnment : One made by Spencer & Eaton; aper- 
ture of objective, 13 A inches; magnifying powers of eye-pieces, 80 to 
IGOO. (c') One by Steinheil Sons; aperture, 4 inches, (o") One by 
Hugo Schroder ; aperture, 5 inches. 

{d) Spectroscope : One direct vision 5 prisms ; attached to the 4iucli 
Steinheil refractor. 

(/) Glironograpli : By Wm. Bond & Son, Boston, Mass. 

(r/) Cloclcs: Mean time; makers, Wm. Bond & Son. 

{li) Chronometer: Sidereal; makers, W^M. Bond & Son. 

Columbia, Missouri. 

The Laws Observatory, Univcrsitij of the State of Missouri. 

Longitude from Washington, 1^' 1'" G^ W. 

Latitude, 38° 5G' 51.5" JST. . 

Authority for longitude and latitude: Joseph Ficklin and Thomas 

J. LOWRY. 

Director : Joseph Ficklin. 

During February and March, 1880, the old observatory building, 
which stood a few feet west of the main university edifice, was moved 
and enlarged. It now stands on the beautiful eminence in the campus 
near the chalybeate spring. The meridian line of each pier now passes 
between the university building and the i)resident's mansion. In this 
position a good horizon is secured. In the old position the horizon was 
obstructed on the north by the scientific building, and on the east by 
the university building. 

The old dome was found to be too small for the equatorial recently pur- 
chased, and a brick addition was made at the east end for the accom- 
modatiou of this instrument. The whole building is G3 feet long from 
east to west, and fronts east. 

The present greatly improved condition of the observatory is due to 
the liberality of the president, Dr. S. S. Laws, who, for the advance- 
ment of astronomical science, has given to the university more than 
$2,000, in order to procure the telescope and put it in complete working 
order, and to move and enlarge the observatory building. 
Instruments : 

(«) Meridian circle : One; maker, Brunner, of Paris; diameter of 
circle, 10 J inches; divided to 5' ; read by two microscopes to 3" ; aper- 
ture of objective, 2^^ inches ; for observations of the sun, aperture 



376 ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATORIES. 

employed, 2 ig iiiclies ; magnifying power ordinarily employed, 50 diam- 
eters. 

(c) Equatorial instruments : One made by Henry Fitz, of New York ; 
aperture of objective, 4:^^ inclies ; magnifying powers of eye-pieces, 30 
to 240 ; one made by Meez & Son, of Munich ; aperture of objective, 
7 1 inclies 5 magnifying jiowers of eye-pieces, SO to 1018. This instru- 
ment is furnished with a micrometer, reflecting prisms and sunshades. 
It is driven by clock-work. The hour circle is 10 inches in diameter. 
It is graduated on silver to single minutes, and read by two verniers 
to 4 seconds of time. The declination circle is 15 inches in diameter. 
It is graduated on silver to 10 minutes, and read by two verniers to 10 
seconds of arc. The finder was made by Alvan Clark «& Sons, of 
Cambridgoport, Mass. It has an aperture of 1|- inches and a focal length 
of 17 J inches. 

{g) Cloclcs: One mean time; maker, Eiggs, of Philadelphia: one 
sidereal ; makers, Gregg & Rupp, of New York. 

(i) 2UsceUancous : The instrumental equipment includes also a sextant 
made by E. «& G. W. Blunt, of New York ; the arc is graduated on 
silver, and reads by a vernier and miscroscope to 10 seconds. An alt- 
azimuth instrument, made by E. & G. W. Blunt ; it has an aperture 
of 2^ inches ; the circles are 12 inches in diameter and graduated to 10 
minutes ; the horizontal circle has four verniers with microscopes and 
the vertical circle two, and each reads to 10 seconds. A Transit theodo- 
lite, made by Gregg & Rupp, of New York. 

Columbus, Ohio. 

Private Observatory. 

Longitude from Washington, 23'" 54* W. 
Latitude, 40° 0' 1.5" N. 

Authority for longitude and latitude: U. S. Coast Survej' for State- 
House dome, 2 miles distant. 
Director: R. W. McFarland. 
Instruments : 
(c) Equatorial instrument: Makers, Alvan Clark & Sons; aper- 
ture of objective, 5 inches. 
(<5f) Clocli: Mean time ; makers, Parkinson & Frodsham. 

Crete, Nebraska. 

Boswell Ohscrratory of Thane College. 

Longitude from Washington, . 

Latitude, . 

Director : — . 



ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATORIES. 377 

Dubuque, Iowa. 
Duhvqiic Observatory. 

Loiigitiulc from TTasliingtou, 54'" 27.01" W. 
Latitude, 42^ 29' 38" N. 

Authority for longitude and latitude: Boundary line between the 
States of Illinois and Wisconsin, projected tlirougii the city of 
Dubuque; and telegraphic record of star transits at Ann 
Arbor and Dubuque. 
Director: AsA IIORR, M. D. Under the supervision of Prof. J. C. 
Watson, in 18G5. 
Instruments : 
{b) Meridian transit instrument: Maker, Wm. Wiirdem Ann, Wash- 
ington, D. 0. Aperture, li inches; magnifying i)o\ver sufficient to note 
time by stars of the 10th magnitude. Finding circle, 4i inches diam- 
eter, reading by verniers and lenses to half a minute of arc. The pier 
extends 17 feet into the ground, through clay to gravel ; it is 7 feet 6 
inches diameter at base, 3 feet at top, which is 4 feet above the surface; 
is surrounded by a brick wall, 8 inches from the stone shaft, the space 
between (at the surface of the ground) being stuffed with oakum. The 
Y's rest on thin brass supports on the top of stone pillars, instead of the 
iron frame which acme with the instrument. 

{g) Clock: Mean time; makers, Howard & Co., Boston. Tower 
clock, reliable to less than a second a day througli all extremes of tem- 
perature. 

(/i) Glironometer : Mean time; maker, K. Zimmerman, Liverpool, Eng- 
land. 

Due West, South Carolina. 

Astronomical Observatory of Ersldne College. 

Longitude from Washington, . 

Latitude, . 

Director : Kev. W. M. Grier, D. D. 

Easton, Pennsylvania. 

La Fayette College Observatory. 

Longitude from Greenwich, . 

Latitude, . 

Director: . 

Elizabeth, New Jersey. 

Observatory. 

Longitude from Washington, 11'" 22.2^ E. 

Latitude, 40^ 40' 19" N. 

Authority for latitude and longitude : United States Coast Survey. 

Director: Charles W. Plyer. 



378 ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATORIES 

Instruments : 

(b) Meridian transit instrument : Makers, John Bliss & Sons, New 
York; aperture, 1 inch; magnifying power, 10 diameters. 

(c) EqiiatoriaHnstrument : Maker, Henry G. Fitz; aperture of ob- 
jective, G^ inches. Nine eye-pieces, from 50 to G30. 

FoRDHAM, New York. 
Private Observatory. 

Longitude from Washington, 12"° 40.47* E. 

Latitude, 40° 52' 31.3" N. 

Authority for longitude and hititude: Coast Survey map of 18G3 and 
American Ephemeris, 1879, assuming the longitude and lati- 
tude of New York, given in the Ephemeris, to be that of the 
city hall. 

Director : William Meikleham. 
Observatory removed to Riverdale, New YorTc. 

Fort Dodge, Iowa. 

Private Observatory. 

Longitude from Washington, 1'' 8™ 5« W. 
Latitude, 42o 30' N. 

Authority for longitude and latitude: F. Hess. 
Director: F. Hess. 
Instruments : 

(b) Meridian transit instrument: Makers, J. Brown & Son, New 
York; aperture, 1 inch; magnifying power, lOi diameters, with hori- 
zontal and vertical circle, each reading to 1. 

(c) Equatorial instrument: Aperture of objective, 2§ inches; for ob- 
servations of the sun, aperture employed, 2§ inches; magnifying power 
ordinarily employed, 50 diameters. 

{(j) Cloclc: Mean time; maker, G. M. Wheeler, Elgin, 111. 

(t) Miscellaneous: One Troughton sextant and artificial horizon. 

Georgetown, District of Columbia. 

Observatory of Gcorgetoivn College. 

Longitude from Washington, G.2* W. 
Latitude, 38° 54' 2G.07" N. 
Directors: James Curley, S. J. 
John G. Hagen, S. J. 

The observatory was ready for use on January 1, 1846, and was built 
by means of a donation of the Eev. Meredith Jenkins, of Baltimore. 



ASTEONOMICAL OBSERVATORIES. 379 

Miscellaneous observations were made lirst to (lelermiiie tlie latitude 
and longitude with great accuracy. It is now used principally for iu- 
Ktruction. 

Tlie plan of this observatory was made and the first instrument 
oidered in the year 1841. The excavations for the building were 
commenced in 1813, and three years later observations began. The 
building is situated on a hill, northwest of the college, commanding a 
free horizon. It is GO feet long by 30 feet wide, comprising two wings 
on the east and west sides, and two rooms in the middle, viz : The 
clock-room and librarj^ besides cellar and dome. 

The west wing has a transit instrument by Ertel & Son, 7 feet long 
and 4J inches aperture 5 the east wing a meridian circle by Troughton 
& SIMMS, reading to fractions of a second by four microscopes, with an 
object-glass of 4 inches clear aperture. The equatorial was also made 
by TROUGnTON & Simms, has 4.8 inches aperture with powers from 
25 to 400, clockwork and micrometer, strong mounting and large circles. 
The dome measures 20 feet in diameter, and was intended for an 8-iuch 
equatorial, which had been ordered in Paris, but had to be replaced by 
the present one. Two sidereal clocks, originally mounted in the east 
and west wings, and a meantime chronometer hy Molyneaux, of Lou- 
don, a universal instrument by Ertel & Son, a reflecting circle by 
Troughton & Simms, and two 3-inch telescopes completed the original 
outfit of the observatory, which, together with the building, cost about 
$13,000, a small sum compared to the prices of the present day. The 
expenses were defrayed for the most part by a donation of the Eev. 
TH03IAS Meredith Jenkins, S. J., of Baltimore. 

The building of the observatory and the mounting of the instruments 
was superintended by the first director, James Curley, S. J. The 
geographical position was determined by him in 184G, the longitude by 
corresponding observations of moon-culminations at Georgetown and 
Greenwich, the latitude by ui)per and lower culminations of circum- 
I)olar stars. 

The revolution of 1847 brought several Italian professors to George- 
town, among whom were De Vico, Secchi, and Sestini. The former 
had to leave a few weeks later for London on some important business, 
where he died of typhoid-fever on November 15, 1848, only forty-three 
years of age; but the gold medal is still preserved here, which he 
received from the King of Denmark for his discovery of six comets (I, 
1844; II, 1847; I, V, VI, IX, 184G) while director of the observatory 
at the Eoman College. He was a member of the Eoyal Astronomical 
Society of London. 

F. Secchi, then thirty years of age, taught physics for one year and 
then returned to Rome to enter upon his career in physical astronomy, 
but his first interest in this study dates from the observations he made 
with F. Curley at Georgetown. 

F. Sestini began observations of star- colors in 1849, the manuscript 



380 ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATORIES. 

of wliich is preserved in the library of tlie observatorj-. The list of 
his stars was taken from Baily's Catalogue, and is the same which 
lie had observed at Home. The result was that in general there is no 
difference in color observed in Italy and in our sky. lu 1850 he made 
drawings of sun-spots from September 20 till November C, missing only 
six days out of forty-eight. The drawings were lithographed and, to- 
geiher with a journal and preface, published in the "appendix of the 
Washington Astronomical Observations for 1847. A duplicate set of 
copies is still in thelibrary of tlie observatory. 

In 1852 a quarto volume of 215 pages, containing a description of the 
observatory, with eight plates and reduction tables for time observa- 
tions, was published and distributed by the director. That nothing 
more has appeared from his loen finds sufficient explanation in the 
facts that he considered the observatory mainly as a means. of educa- 
tion, and that he is now in the venerable age of ninety-three years. 

As the centennial celebration of the foundation of the college drew 
near, the regents of the university placed the observatory in charge of 
a younger director and put a liberal allowance at his disposal. Almost 
a thousand dollars were expended for repairs of the building, drying 
and warming the cellar, rooting, iiainting, and so on, The problem of 
revolving the heavy dome was successfully solved by Mr. Gardner, of 
the Naval Observatory. A spring which allows tlie vertical shaft of 
the gearing a horizontal play of 1 inch, so as to keep the pinion ah 
ways in contact with the rack, and a large (vertical) steering wheel, with 
handles, enable a strong man to turn the dome half round in two minutes.. 

Nearly another thousand dollars were spent on old and new instru- 
ments. The equatorial received a helioscope, one of the 3-inch glasses 
was changed into a portable equatorial, with circles, the other into a 
comet-seeker; the clocks were cleaned and mounted in double glass 
cases on the large equatorial pier, one running on sidereal the other on 
mean time, both provided with the Gardner spring contact, and a new 
chronograph by Fauth & Co., of Washington, placed between them. 
A triple electric-wire system is now being run to the switch-board in the 
clock-room, one making connection with the U. S. Naval Observatory, 
another connecting clocks and observing keys with the chronograph, 
and a third giving incandescent illumination to the field and reading 
microscopes of the equatorial and transit instruments. The arrange- 
ment of the switch-board has been made by Mr. Willia^i C. Winlock, 
assistant observer at the U. S. Naval Observatory, and is the same as 
ill the observatories of Harvard College and Mount Ilamilton, Cal. 

The transit instrument and meridian circle are still awaiting a thor- 
ough examination, and piers will have to be built for the smaller instru- 
ments and for collimators. 

The equatorial is the only instrument now ready for use, and will be 
mainly employed for variable star work. All the known variables, from 
the equator down to the horizon, have been put on the observing list, 



ASTRONOMICAL OBSEKVATOJUKH. 08 1 

Nvliilc tlic iiortliern sky is left to the care of more northern observatories. 
Star occultations and comets will be taken in occasionally. If the staif 
of the observatory be raised, as is hoped, to three regular observers and 
one servant, the establishment will be able to prodnce useful results. 

Glasgow, Missouri. 

]\loyrifi(>)i Observatory. 

Lon<;itude from Washington, l'> 3'" 5.93* W. 
Latitude, 39° IG' 10.75" N. 

Authority for longitude : Exchange of clock-signals with the Naval Ob- 
servatory in June and July, IS'79, five nights; latitude, from 
circumpolar stars observed on meridian circle. 
Director : C. AY. Pritciiett. 

The observatory was founded, ]875-'7G, by the liberality of JNIiss Der- 
ENICE Morrison, of Saint Louis. 
Instruments : 

(^0 Meridian circle : One; makers, Trougiiton & Simms; diameter 
of circles, 24 inches; divided to 5'; read by 4 microscopes to 1"; aper- 
ture of objecti^■e, C inches; for observations of the sun, ai)erturo em- 
ployed, 4 inches ; magniiying i>owcr ordinarily employed, 200 diameters. 

(c) Equatorialinstrumcnt : Makers, Alvan Clark & SONS; aperture 
of objective, 12;|- inches; magnifying powers of eye-pieces, 50 to 1,200. 

(/) Chronograph : One. 

{{/) Clock : Sidereal ; maker, Charles Frodsham, London. 

{h) Chronometer: Sidereal; maker, T. S. & J. 1). Negus, New York. 

(?) Miscellaneous: Alt-nzinuith, by L. V. Casella, London; comet- 
seeker, by Alvan Clark »& Sons. 

G^reencastle, Indiana. 

McKim Observaforjj of J)e I'auiv [fuiccrsity. 

Longitude from Washington, 14'" 17.91'' W. 
Latitude. 39° 37' N. 
Director: J. V. 1). John. 

Hanover, New ITampshire. 

ShatittcJc Observatory of Dartmouth College. 

Longitude from Washington, 19'" 3.5G" E. 

Latitude, 43° 42' 15.2" N. 

Authority for longitude and latitude. Prof. C. A. Young. 

Directors : C. A. Young, 1853. 

Charles F. Emerson, 1878. 
Founded in 1853 through the liberality of Dr. G. S. Shattuok. Con- 



382 ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATORIES. 

sists of a west rotunda and three additions. It has double brick walls 
and an air chamber with a space of 6 inches (0.15™) between the walls 

iNSTRUJdENTS : 

[a) Meridian circle: Makers, Troughton «& Sums; diameter of 
circle, 30 inches; divided to 5'; read bj reading microscopes to 1', and 
micrometers to single seconds; aperture of objective, 4 inches ; mag- 
nifying power ordinarily employed, 120 diameters. 

(c) Equatorial instniment : Makers, Alvan Clark & Sons; aper- 
ture of objective, 9.25 inches ; magnifying jDowers of eye-pieces, 100 to 
1,200, 20 in number. 

{(1) Spectroscopes: Large 9-prism Clark spectroscope ; seven prism, 
double acting (equivalent to 13 prisms), fitting equatorial mentioned 
above. 

(/) Clironograijli : Bond's spring governor. 

{(j) Clocks: One mean time: makers, Utzschneider & Frauenhofer; 
connected with chronogrnph ; one sidereal ; makers, Utzschneider & 
Mahler, of Munich ; connected with chronograph. 

(i) Miscellaneous : Comet-seeker, aperture 3.G inches, mounted on 
large tripod ; small portable telescope, aperture 3 inches ; zenith sector, 
loaned by Coast Survey, aperture 4 inches ; full set of common meteoro- 
logical apparatus, including a recording barometer ; sextant by Hardy, 
of London. 

Hastings, Kew York. 

Private Observatory. 

Longitude from Washington, 12"' 42.7« E. 
Latitude, 40° 59' 25" K 

Authority for longitude and latitude, U. S. Coast Survey. 
Director ; Henry Draper. 
Instruments : 

(&) Meridian transit instrument : Makers, Stackpole & Brother; 
aperture, 2 inches; niaguifying power, 45 diameters. 

(c) Equatorial instruments : One reflector, 28 inches aperture, made 
by Henry Draper; [c') one refractor, 11 inches aperture, by Alvan 
Clark & Sons, with photographic corrector. 

{d) 8;pectrosco;pes : One diffraction, 1 stellar photographic, 1 automatic, 
etc. 

(f) Chrcnogra^^h : One made by Henry Draper. 

(g) ClocTc : One mean time ; maker, Howard. 

{h) Chronometers : One mean time ; maker, l!s"EGUS : one sidereal ; 
maker, Negus. 

(i) Miscellaneous : Altitude and azimuth reflector of 15 J inches aper- 
ture. 



ASTRONOiMICAL OBSEEVATOKIES. 383 

IlAVERFORD COLLEGE, PENNSYLVANIA. 

Havcrford College Observatory. 

Longitude from WasliiDgtoii, G'" 59.33« E. 
Latitude, 40° 0' 36.5" K 

Authority for longitude aud latitude: Observatious on moon, culminat- 
ing stars, and with transit in the prime vertical in the years 
] 854-'o5. [The triangulations from U. S. Coast Survey stations 
give: 

Longitude, 7"' 0.17« E. 
Latitude, 40° 0' 49.73" N. 

Director: ISAAC Siiarpless. 
Instruments : 

(a) Meridian circle: One; dianuier of circles, 26 inches; divided to 
15'; read by 4 microscopes to 2"; aperture of objective, 4 inches. 

(c) Equatorial instrument : Makers, Henry Fitz, re- worked by Clark; 
aperture of objective, S^ inches ; magnifying powers of eye-pieces, 60 to 
800. 

(/) Chronograph : Bond's magnetic. 

{g) Clods: One sidereal; maker, Lukens: one sidereal; maker. Har- 
per; mercurial compensation. 

(i) Zenith instrument : Aperture, 2^ inches; rejuvenated by Faijth & 
Co., and to be set up as soon as addition is built to observatory, to de- 
termine our latitude. 

Hudson, Ohio. 

Hudson Ohservatory. 

Longitude from Washington, 17™ 32.06» W. 
Latitude, 41° 14' 42.C" X. 

Authority for longitude and latitude : Prof. Elias Loomis, LL. D. 
Director: Charles J. Smith. 
Instruments : 

(a) Meridian circle : One; maker, Simms, of London; diameter of cir- 
cles, IS inches ; divided to 5' ; read by 3 microscopes to 1" ; aperture of 
objective, 3 inches. 

Equatorial instrument: One; maker, Simms ; aperture of objective, 4 
inches; magnifying powers of eyepieces, 50, 100, 150, 250, 350. 

Clocli: Sidereal; maker, Molineux; mercurial pendulum. 

Iowa City, Iowa. 

Private Ohservatory. 

Longitude from Washington, 57'" 52.5^ W. 
Latitude, 41o 39' 8" K 
Director : C. W. Irish. 



384 ASTKONOMICAL OBSERVATORIES. 

Instruments : 

(6) Meridian transit instrument : A small one made by the director 
himself; aperture, one inch ; magnifying power, 11 diameters. 

(c) Equatorial instrument: Maker, Chevalier, Paris; aperture of 
objective, 4 inches ; magnifying powers of eye-pieces, 25 to 300. 

(/) Chronograph: A Morse register. 

{g) Cloclc : One mean time; beating three quarter seconds ; of German 
make. 

Jersey City, New Jersey. 

Private Observatory. 

Longitude from Washington, 11^" 48.49" E. 
Latitude, 40° 42' 50.30" N. 
Director : Henry Harrison. 

Instruments : 

Equatorial: Eefractor, new, by John Byrne; aperture, 4^ inches; 
focal length, 39 inches ; power of eyepieces (with insertion of Barlow 
lens) from 20 to 400 ; Troughton position filar micrometer ; apparatus 
for projecting solar image. 

Spectroscope : With view telescope and collimator cabinet; length, 7 
inches ; Eutherfurd diffraction grating f by 1 inch. 

ClocJc: sidereal, Thomas. 

Lansing, Michigan. 

State Agricultural College Observatory. 

Longitude from Washington, 29™ 44» W. 
Latitude, 42° 43' 54" In\ 
Director : E. C. Carpenter. 

The observatory is rather for instruction than investigation. 

Lawrence, Kansas. 

Observatory of the Kansas State University. 

Longitude from Washington, P 12™ 47.9' W. 
Latitude, 38° 57' 15" N. 

Authority for longitude and latitude : Fred W. Bradwell, late pro- 
fessor of astronomy, Kansas State University. 
Director : H. J. S. Smith. 
Instruments : 

(6) Meridian transit instrument : Makers, Stackpole Bros. ; aper- 
ture, 2^ inches. 

{g) Clocli-s : One mean time ; makers, E. Howard & Co., Boston 
(medium): one sidereal; maker, Brockbanks, London (old). 



ASTRONOMICAL OBSEKVATORIKS. 385 

{k) Chronometer : Sidereal; makers, T. S. & J- D. Negus, New York 
(good). 

(i) Miscellaneous : Sextaut, by Gambey ; comet-seeker, 6-iucli object 
glass. 

LiN\YOOD, Ohio. 

Private Observatory. 

Longitude from Wasliiiigton, . 

Latitude, . 

Direcior : 11. U. McClure, 

Situated about one mile E. by S. from Cincinnati observatory. 
Instruments : 
. (c) One equatorial silvered glass Newtonian reflector. Diameter of 
tbe concave rellecting objective, 5i incues ; magnifying })Owers of the 
eye-pi( ces, GO, 100, and 200 diameters. TLe mirror, tube, and mounting 
all constructed by ]\Jr. McClure himself. 

Madison, Wisconsin. 
The WasJibiirn Observatory. 

Longitude from Washington, 49"' 25.8" W. 

Latitude, 43o 4' 3G.7" N. 

Authority for longitude and latitude: a pier of the United States 
Coast and Geodetic Survey, about 500 feet from the observa- 
tory, has been connected by a triangulation with the transit 
room, and the position given refers to the center of the transit 
circle. 

Directors: Edward S. TIolden, ISSO. 
George C. Comstock, LS85. 

Instruments : 

(tt) A meridian circle: Maker, Eepsold & Brother, Hamburg; 
diameter of circles, about 30 inclies ; divided to 2' ; read by 4 microscopes 
to 1". Aperture of objective, 4.8 inches ; for observations of the sun, 
aperture employed, — inches; magnifying ppwer ordinarily employed, 
— diameters. 

{b) Meridian transit instrument: Makers, Fauth & Co., Washington ; 
aperture, 3 inches; magnifying power, 00 and 120 diameters; two 12- 
inch circles divided on the edges : one circle to 10", the other for set- 
ting only. The fine circle has a level for latitude. 

{c) Equatorial instrument : Makers, Alvan Clark & Sons ; aper- 
ture of objective, 15.5 inches ; magnifying powers of eye-pieces, 145 
to 1200. 

(/) Chronograph : A chronograph by Fautii & Co., with a conical 
pendulum. 

H. Mis. 170—35 



386 ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATORIES. 

(g) Clods : One mean time ; makers, Seth Thomas Clock Com- 
pany : one sidereal ; maker, HoHWtr, of Amsterdam. 

(Ji) Chronometers: One sidereal; maker, Bliss, Xo. 278G ; one side- 
real break-circuit, Bliss, ^o. 2791. 

Mount Hamilton, California. 

Liclc Observatory of tJie University of California. 

Longitude from Washington, 2'' 58"^ 14.G» W. 

Latitude, 37o 21' 3" N. 

Director : Edward S. H olden, 1885. 

The Lick Observatory of the University of California owes its origin 
to the bequest of the late James Lick, of California, who bequeathed 
to the University of California " a telescope of greater power than any 
yet made." As the site of his observatory he selected Mount Hamilton, 
in the Santa Clara Valley. 

The following description of the establishment of the observatory is 
taken from the Scientific American (New York), March 17, 1888: 

In administering their trust the custodians met with legal obstacles 
and suits brought by his relatives. These delayed tlie carrying out of 
his plans, but eventually a settlement was reached. On June 30, 1883, 
the corner-stone of the observatory to which this article is devoted 
was hiid, and to-day the work is ])ractically complete. When Mount 
Hamilton was selected as the site for the Lick Observatory, in order to 
test its atmospheric conditions Prof. S. W. Burnham, tlie discoverer of 
many double stars, was invited to observe there in 1879. Owing to the 
dryness of the air and its excellent quality for astronomical work, 
his G-iuch telescope described many stars, catalogued bj' Prof. Otto 
Struve as double, into triple stars. Mr. Lick died in 1876, and the 
original plans for the observatory were determined by Capt. Richard 
S. Floyd, president of the trustees, and Mr. T. E. Eraser, superin- 
tendent of construction, acting under the advice of Prof. Edward S. 
Holden, and Prof. Simon Newcomb, of the Naval Observatory, in 
Washington. Many noted astronomers have been interested in the 
work, and this will probably be the most famous observatory in the 
world. It owns about 1,550 acres of. land, a portion of which will event- 
ually be made into a public ])ark, and the graded road of 26 miles leatl- 
ing to the summit of Mount Hamilton from San Jose may, perhaps, be- 
come a direct route to the Yosemite Valley. Since 1880, when the work 
was first begun, 7,000 tons of rock and earth have been removed to 
level a plateau upon which the buildings stand. They are constructed 
of solid masonry, and are of simple but etiective architecture, and in- 
clude the main building, 287 feet long, containing the directors' and 
secretary's offices, the library, clock-rooms, etc., with the large dome 
at its southern end for the large telescope, and a smaller dome for the 
12inch equatorial at the northwest corner, the meridian-circle house, 
the transit house, the photographic laboratory, and several temporary 
wooden w<nicshops. The dwelling house of the astronomers, 03 by 60 
feet, stands below the summit and is connected with the plateau by a 
bridge. The surrounding peaks-have been named from several famous 
astronomers. 



ASTRONOMICAL OBSEKVATOIUES. 387 

Tlie lar^e dome, built by the Union Iron Works, of San Francisco, is 
75 feet in diameter and its moving- parts weigh 100 tons. It revolves 
upon wheels wiiich run on hardened steel balls. A man merely pushing 
against it can move the entire dome. The usual motive power is ob- 
tained from a water engine which can rotate the dome 3(50 degrees in 
less than nine minutes. Its diameter chang-es one-half inch in the e^c- 
treme change of temperatur.', and its track is given a smooth and oi^ed 
surface to slide upon. The observing slit is 9i feet wide, and the pintle 
of the shutter is placed eccentrically. A practical device for carrying 
the observer to the eye piece of the telescope, which at times is far above 
the base of the dome, was planned by Sir JIoward Grubb, of Dublin. 
This is an elevating floor (JL^ feet in diameter, weighing 50,000 pounds, 
and is moved uj) and down'^through a space of 10 feet. It is highly 
probable that the present systemWili not be sufticiently powerful to 
raise the t^ooring rapidly enough, but iii this event the hydraulic system 
can be altered, or steatn or electricity substituted. Tlie actual speed 
required can oidy be determined after a series of experiments have 
been made. 

The dome for the IL'-inch equatorial is 25 feet wide, weighs 8 tons, 
and its observing- slit, wiiich extends beyond the zenith, is 3 feet wide. 
The meridian-circle house is 43 by 38 feet. Its walls are double, the 
outer frame of galvanized iron, the inyer one of California redwood. 
Between these is an air space 21 inches wide, which encircles the build- 
ings. There is also an air space above the ceiling, which communicates 
with the room and with the air spaces of the walls, and on the west 
there is a ventilating tower two stories in height, which connects with 
the room ot the meridian-transit instrument. By these means thetem- 
})erature of the building is kept the same as that of the extei nal air. The 
transit house, adjoining the meridian-circle house, is l)uilt of iron, with a 
wooden lining, and is arched by a curved shutter, which is controlled 
by levers, planned by Sir Howard Grurb, The photographic observ- 
atory, north of the transit house, is asnniU wooden building, with brick 
foundation. The tube of the photoheliograi)li telescope enters tUis 
house, and a brick pier supi^orts the photoheliograph. A room in the 
second tioor of the main bnikling- is also titted for photography. 

The large telescope, which embodies the expresse<l object of the 
$700,000 donatmu, was mounted by Warner & Swasey, of Cleveland. 
The tube is nearly cylindrical, and is (JO feet in length. There are three 
liuders, G, 4, and 3 inches in aperture, and in addition to these the 12- 
inch equatorial can be quickly attached, as a pointer, for photograi)hic 
work if the controlled driving- clock does not work satisfactorily. The 
leusis36 inches clear aperture, being the largest object glassin tlie world, 
and has a G78-inch focus. The flint disk was obtained from FEiL,in April, 
1882, and after nineteen failures the crown-glass disk was cast snccess- 
fully in September, 1885. The third photographic crown lens was pur- 
chased from Feil in 1.S8G, and broke while in the hands of the Clarks. 
The trustees of Yale University then otiered their 27-inch flint glass to 
the Lick 01)Servatory, but this was too yellow, and in 1887 Mr. Alvan 
G. Clark bought in Paris, from Feil, the crown glass which is worked 
into a third lens. In addition to its nmgnifying power and its perfect 
definition, i. e., neatness, accuracy, etc., this'telescope has great light- 
gathering- ])ower, and stars may be seen through it which are thirty 
thousand times fainter than the faintest seen by the naked e,ye, and the 
moon will appear under the same conditions as if it were seen by the 
naked eye at about 200 miles from the earth. 

The 12 inch refractoi-, which was originally made for Dr. Henry 



\ 



388 ASTKOXOMICAL OBSERVATORIES. 

Draper's private observ^atory at ilastiiigs, N. Y., by Alvan Clark 
& Sons, is of the finest coustrnction. Tli« object-glass of the GA-iiich 
equatorial was also made by the Glares, and is provided with a port- 
able njouuting- made by Warner & Swasey. The 4 inch comet-seeker, 
made by Alvan Clark & Sons, hiis a focal length of 33 inches. The 
rdys fall on a reflecting prism, and are bent into a horizontal plane. 
T]^e eye of the observer, moving in azimuth while the telescope is in 
altitude, can cover the whole sky. The motion is effected by turning a 
craidv. This was bought on Professor Newcomb's recommendation. 

The photoheliograph is mounted south of the transit house. The 
transit instrument determines the axis of the photoheHogra])h, and this 
is also used as a collimator for the transit. The 6-incli Kepsold merid- 
ian circle was delivered in 1881^, after having been inspected by Pro- 
fessors AUWERS and Krueger, of Berlin. The declinograph was 
made under the supervision of Dr. Johann Palisa, of Vienna, to fit 
either a 12-inch or a C inch equatorial. The universal instrument made 
by Eepsold consists of a telescope containing a prism, into which the 
rays of light are reflected. Its aperture is 2.15 inch. The horizontal 
circle reads by two microscopes to two seconds, and the circles are 10 
inches in diameter. This is a perfect geodetic instrument, and together 
with a G-inch equatorial and a cljrouometer can be easily packed for 
astronomical expeditious. There are several chronometers made by 
Negus, and a thermometric chronometer by C. Frodsham. The most 
important of the minor instruments are the fihir micrometer for the 
36inch telescope by Fauth & Co., the duplex micrometer by Grubb, 
and a star spectroscope made by Brashear from designs of Mr. 
Keeler. Plans for a large solar spectroscope are being worked out 
by Professors Holden and Langley. The other instruments are a 
delicate sphereometer by Fauth & Co. ; resistance coils ; galvanome- 
ters; a disk photometer ; spectroscopes; a lever trier of refined con- 
struction ; and an engine for measuring photographs, scales, etc., made 
by Stackpole & Bros., from designs of Professor Harkness. 

»The meteorological instruments are: Self- registering rain-gauges, 
wind-gauges, barometers, and a number of thermometers. There is a 
complete set of apparatus for registering earthquakes, provided by the 
Cambridge Scientific Instrument Company, consisting of a horizontal 
seismograph with clock and driving plate, the clock being started by 
an electric contact at the beginning of a shock, and the two rectangu- 
lar components of the horizontal motion then registering on a moving 
l)late; a vertical seismograph to register vertical motions on a dial 
plate; a dupfex pendulum seismograph to give independent records on 
a dial- plate, the pencil being free to move in any azimuth; and a chro- 
nograph, which is set in motion at the beginning of an earthquake ami 
recortls its duration upon a clock. The start" of the observatory con- 
sists of Prof. Edward S. Holden, director and chief astronomer; 
Samuel W. Burnham, James E. Keeler, John M. Schaeberle, 
and Edward E. Barnard, assistant astronomers; and C. B. Hill, 
secretary, librarian, and occasional observer. 

Early in 1880, Professor Holden made contracts with the Southern 
Pacific and other railroad companies for supplying tinu^. from the ob- 
servatory by automatic electric signals. This regular time service, of 
which Mr. Keeler has charge, has been in operation since January, 
1887. A great i»art of the apparatus used in this service forms an in- 
tegral part of the observatory's equipment. The system which has 
thus been introduced has been of great service to that particular sec- 
tion of the country, as well as to the railroad companies. 



ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATORIES. 389 

InstruinCMts for record in.i;- eartlKiiiuko ishoc-k.s liave l)een constructed 
by a couipaiiy in San Francisco, and are sold at a very low li<;ure. Jt 
is designed in tbis way that records of any seismic movements shall be 
procured by private individnaJs in different i)arts of the State, and 
.plates upon which the movehient has been recorded may be sent to the 
observatory, where a record will be kept of all such data, and blue 
])rints will'be made of the diagrams and copies of this sent to the i)er- 
son from whom the plate has Iteen obtained. Although this is quite 
independent of the regular work of the observatory, it will doubtless 
lead to the accumulation of data which will be most important in formu- 
lating statistics for future use. 

The great telescope has been mounted for several weeks, and several 
satisfactory tests of its capacity have been made. It was first directed 
to the skj^on the evening of January 3, 1888, and a few observations 
were then made for the partial adjustment of the object-glass, but the 
observation was abbreviated by the skies becoming cloudy. The next 
observatious made were on the evening of the 7th. On this occasion 
Saturn was observed, and Mr. Keeler, who conducted the observa- 
tion, says with rapture that it was ''the most glorious telescopic spec- 
tacle ever beheld." He exclaims: "Not only was he shining with the 
brilliancy due to the great size of the objective, but the minutest details 
of his surface were visible with wonderful distinctness." 

Mount Lookout, Ohio. 
Cincinnati Ohservatory. 

Longitude from Washington, 29'" 29.33« W. 

Latitude, 30^ 8' 20" N. 

Authority for longitude : Washington Observatious for 1877. Appen- 
dix IV ; for latitude : Preliminary reduction of unpublished 
Observatious. 

Directors : O. M. Mitchel, 1812. 
H. TWITCHEL, 1853. 

W. Davis, 1851. 
C. Abbe, 1869. 

Ormond Stone, 1875. 
H. C. Wilson, 1882. 
Founded in 1842 through the efforts of* Professor Mitchel. 
The ground was donated by Nicholas Longworth. Removed in 
1873 to new building erected at Mount Lookout. The new grounds were 
donated by John Kilgour. 
Instruments : 

(b) Meridian transit instrument : Makers, Buff and Berger; aper- 
ture, 3 inches ; maguifjing power, 100 diameters. 

(c) Equatorialinstruments : 0>ne made by Utzschneider and Frau- 
enhofer; finished by Merz & Mahler: object-glass refigured by 
Alvan Clark & Sons ; aperture of objective, 11^ inches ; magnifying 
powers of eye-pieces, 90 to 1400. {c') One by Alvan Clark & Sons ; 
aperture, 4 inches; magnifying pov, ers, 15 to 250. 

(/) Chronor/raph : Bond 



390 ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATORIES. 

{(j) Clocks: Two mean time; makers, Hobert Molyneux, James 
EiTCHiE & Son. 

{//) Chronometer : Sidereal ; makers, William Bond & Son. 

(I) Miscellaneous: Magnetic tlieodolite; maker, Gasibey. Sextant; 
makers, Stackpole «& Brother. Inclinometer time-ball, telegraphic* 
apparatus, etc. 

MiDDLETOWN, CONNECTICUT. 

Observatory of ^yesleyan University. 

Longitude from Washington, . 

Latitude, . 

Director : Prof. J. M. Van Vleck. 

New Brunswick, New Jersey. 

Observatory of Rutgers College. 

Longitude from Washington, . 

Latitude, . 

Director : , 

Nashville, Tennessee. 

Observatory of Vanderbilt University. 

Longitude from Washington, 38™ 56* W. 

Latitude, 30° 10' 01" N. 

Authority for longitude and latitude: U. S, Coast Survey. 

Director: E. E. Barnard. 

Instruments : 

(c) Equatorial instrument: A simple equatorial; aperture of objective, 
5 inches ; magnifying powers of eye-i)ieces, 52 to 520. (c') A small 2i 
inches alt-azimuth telescope with good rack-work ; all the eye-pieces of 
large telescope fit it. 

(i) Miscellaneous: In use also a small instrument. The base of this 
instrument is divided to degrees and read by vernier to 3' of arc. An 
upright pillar carries a semi-circle of altitude ; this is divided to degrees 
and read to 3' of arc by a vernier. Attached to the semi-circle of alti- 
tude is an hour-circle divided to 4'" of time and read to single minutes 
by vernier. Ux^on the hour-circle rests a semi-circle of declination di- 
vided to degrees and read to 3' of arc by vernier. On tfie base are two 
levels, the instrument being leveled by three adjusting screws, which 
also serve as feet. The declination semicircle carries a very small tele- 
scope about .4 inch diameter of objective. The telescope has a diag- 
onal eye-piece with metal reflector and single lenses and vertical and 
horizontal hairs. The instrument was made by W. & S. Jones, London. 
It is used for identifying stars in comet observations by setting the alti- 
tude semi circle for the latitude, thereby converting the instrument into 
an equatorial. 



artlonomical observatories. 391 

New Haven, Connecticut. 
Winchester Observatory of Yale College. 

Longitude from Wa-shingtou, ()'' 16'" 30. l« E. 

Latitude, 41° 18' 30.5" N. 

Aiitliority for longitude : U! S. Coast Survey. For latitude : Zenith tele- 
scope observations in 1857-'58. (See Am. Jour, of Sci., vol. 30, 
p. 52, second series.) Coast Survey latitude, 41° 18' 10" G7 N. 

Directors: E. LooMis, 1831. 

D. Olmstead, 1836. 
C. S. Lyman, 1847. 
H. A. Newton. 

The horological bureau is a department of the Winchester Observ- 
atory organized in January, 1880, with a special equipment of instru- 
ments for a regular and extended public time service. The standard 
time by law of the State is that of the meridian of the city hall, New 
York, which is 4-" 19.6^ slow of New Haven and 12"' 10.5« fast of Wash- 
ington. Another important work of the bureau is the testing of watches 
and chronometers in the interest of the watch manufacture, for which 
hot and cold closets and "other special facilities are provided. 

There is also connected with the observatory a ther mo metrical bureau, 
in charge of Dr. Waldo, for the verification of clinical and other ther- 
mometers. 

Instruments : 

{a) Meridian circle: Makers, Ertel & Sons, 1845. Formerly the 
property of the U. S. Naval Observatory. Altered by William J. 
YouNGr, 1855, and regraduated 1870. Diameter of circles, 40 inches; 
divided to 2'; read by six microscopes to 1"; aperture of objective, 3.8 
inches; for observations of the sun, aperture employed, 1.7 inches; 
magnifying i^ower ordinarilj'^ employed, 190 diameters; focal length, 
58.2 inches. 

(b) Meridian transit instruments: One made by C. S. Lyman, of 30- 
iuch focal length; aperture, 2.0 inches; magnifying power, 185 diame- 
ters. Circle, 12 inches-, reading to 10" by verniers; it has declination 
micrometer and fine level, for use as zenith telescope, made in 1852-'53' 
One by Troughton & Simms, London; aperture, 3.99 inches; magni- 
fying i^ower, 150-200 diameters; focal length, 5.108 feet, {b') Combined 
transit and zenith telescope, 36-inch focal length ; aperture, 2.6 inches; 
power, 185 diameters ; 12-inch circle, reading to 10" by verniers; decli- 
nation raicrometerand sensitive levelfor latitude work ; made in 1852-'56: 
object-glass by Fitz, design and mounting by C. S. Ly'MAN. 

(c) Equatorial instruments: Makers, Alvan Clark & Sons; aper- 
ture of objective, 9 inches ; magnifying powers of eye pieces, 40, 80, 140, 
200, 280, 450, 620. {&) Portable 4'^-inch refractor by Messrs. Clark & 
Sons. 



392 ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATORIES. 

(d) Spectroscope : By A. Clakk & Sons, of 7 prisms twice tiaverseil. 

{/) Chronographs : Oue by A.. Clark & Sons, with couical peudulum 
gov^ernor ; another by William Bond & Sons, Boston, with Bond's 
spring- governor. 

{g) Clocks : One mean time, made by E. Howard & Co., Boston; 
one by William Hillhouse, New Haven ;. one sidereal, by William 
Bond & Son, Boston ; one by Appleton, London ; one by E. How- 
ard & Co. 

{h) Chronometers : One pocliet chronometer, mean time, by Johnson, 
London; one sidereal, by Tool, London, improved by NEors, New 
York. 

(i) MisceUaneous : Two bifilar position-micrometers, one bj' Dollond, 
the other by Fautii & Co., Washington, D. C. ; a patent sextant and 
a patent reflecting circle, by Pistor & Martins, Berlin; repeating 
relays, sonnders, etc., for time service. Yale College Las also in nse a 
5 inch 10-foot refractor by Dollond, a sidereal clock, and a 20-inch 
transit instrument, in charge of Professor Loomis. 

New Orleans, Louisiana. 

Obserraiori). 

Longitude from Washington, 

Latitude, 29° 57' 2(5" N. 

Authority for longitude and latitude: U. S. Coast Survey, 1859, p. 

2G5 ; Connaissance des Temps, Paris, 1884, p. Ix. 
Director: . 

New Windsor, Illinois. 

Private Observatory. 

Longitude from Washington, 53"> 53« W. 
Latitude, 41° 13' N., approximately. 

Authority for longitude: telegTai)hic time signals direct from U. S. 
Naval Observatory at Washington on December 4, 5, 0, 7, 
1882; for latitude, own determination.* 
Direeior : Edgard L. Larkin. 

Permanent observatory; brick pier and revolving dome. 

Instruments: 
(c) Equatorial instrument: Makers, Alvan Clark & Sons: aperture 
of objective, C inches; magnifying powers of eye-pieces, 27, CO, 130, 250, 
300, GOO, with prism and solar eye-piece. Two of the eye-pieces are 
GuNDLAOii's periscopic. 

(g) Cloch: Sidereal; ordinary clock. 

(i) Miscellaneons : Planisphere, charts, maps, and catalogues. 



ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATORIES. 393 

Newington, (Jonnecticut. 
Private Observatorij. 

Longitiulc from Wasbington, 21'" 2.^" E. 
Latitude, 41° W N. 

Authority for longitude and latitude: difference from Hartford state- 
house, Coast Survey. 
Director : D. W. Eugecomb. 

This observatory consists of a small frame building, with dome 12 feet 
G inches diameter, ui)on the grounds of the owner, covering an cquato 
rial telescope. 

Instruments : 

(c) Equatorial instrument: Makers, A. Clark & Sons; aperture of 
objective, 0.4 inches; nuxgnifyiug powers of eye-pieces, various uj) to 
2,000. 

{(j) Clock: ]Mean time; Swiss regulator; seconds. 

New York, New York. 
I. Columbia College Observatory. 

Longitude from Washington, 12™ 18.4* E. 

Latitude, 40^ 45' 23.1" N. 

Authority for longitude and latitude : these constants were calculated 
from data furnished by city surveyors and based on the posi- 
tion of Mr. Kutherfurd's observator3\ The longitude and lati- 
tude of the latter were determined by the Coast Survey. 

Director : J. K. Kees. 
The old observatory has been torn down and a new observatory has 

been erected within a few feet of the old site. 

II. Private Observatory. 

Longitude from Washington, 12"' 15.47* E. 
Latitude, 40° 43' 48.53" N. 

Authority for longitude and latitude: U. S. Coast Survey party (1859), 
with zenith telescope upon 24 pairs of stars, and telegraphic 
communication with Washington and Cambridge. 
Director : L. M. Kutuerfurd. 

Instruments : 

{b) Meridian transit instrur.ient : Maker, Stackpole; aperture 3 
inches. Only used for time. 

(c) Equatorial instrumemt: Makers, Messrs. Rutherfurd & Fitz ; 
ai)erture of objective, 13 inches. The telescope has been employed 
mostly in photographing the sun, moon, and groups of stars. 

(/) Chronograiih : MoRSE. 

{(j) Clock : Sidereal ; maker, Dent. 



394 ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATORIES. 

NORTHFIELD, MINNESOTA. 
Carleton College Astronomical Observatory. 

Longitude from Wasliington, 1^ 4"" 23.85« W. 

Latitude, 44° 27' 40.77" N. 

Authority for longitude : longitude depends on exchange of telegraphic 
signals between Coast Survey otfice at Saint Paul and director 
at Northfield. Authority for latitude : zenith telescope obser- 
vations of 40 pairs of stars reduced to apparent places from 
Safibrd's catalogue. 

Director: William W. Payne. 

Conii)leted in 1878. Attached to Carleton College, central building, 

G meters long, surmounted by a dome, with two wings, one used for 

meridian instruments, the other for the library. 
Instruments : 

(b) Aferidian transit instruments: Makers, Fauth & Co.; aperture, 3 
inches ; magnifying ])Owers, GO, 70j and 80 diameters. 

(c) Equatorial instrnmtnts : Makers, A. Clark & Sons; aperture of 
objective, 8^ inches ; magnifying powers of eye pieces, 50, 100, 200, 400, 
800. {&) Portable equatorial: maker, John Byrne, of New York; 
aperture of objective, 4.3 inches. 

(/) Chronograph: One, made by A. Clark & Sons. 

{g) Clocks: One mean time; makers, E. Howard & Co., No. 19G; 
one sidereal ; makers, E. Howard & Co., No. 195. 

(//) Chronometer: Sidereal; makers, Bond & Sons, No. 374. 

{i) Miscellaneous: The observatory has been favored by the loan of 
a good zenith telescope for several months from Lieut. Edward Ma- 
GUiRE, chief engineer in the department, with headquarters at Saint 
Paul. The. large equatorial .is provided with micrometer, with a full 
battery of eye-pieces. 

Omaha, Nebraska. 

Creighton College Observatory. 

Longitude from Washington, . 

Latitude, . 

Director : . 

(Near) Oxford, Mississippl 

Observatory of the University of Mississippi. 

Longitude from Washington, 49'" 55.03« W. 
Latitude, 34° 22' ]2.G4" N. 

Authority for longitude and latitude, K. B, Fulton. 
Director : 11. B. Fulton. 
The observatory was erected in 187G. 



ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATORIES. 395 

Instruments: 

(a) Aliitudcuzhmith : Makers, Lerebours & Secretan ; diumcter of 
circles, 10 inches; divided to 10'; read by 4 uiicroscopes to 10" ; aper- 
ture of objective, 1.^ inches. 

(/>) Meridian tramit instrument: Makers, B. Pike & SoNS; aperture, 

24 inches. 

(f) Equatorial inHtrument: Maker, Merz, of Munich ; aperture of 
objective, U inclies; luagnifving powers of eye-pieces, 9G to 312 diam- 
eters. 

{d) Spectroscope: KiucnoFF's 4-prism table spectroscope. 

{g) Clod- : Mean time ; makers, Eitchie & Sons, Boston. 

(h) Chronometer: Sidereal; makers, William BOND & SoN, Boston. 

Phelps, New York. 

Bed House Observatory. 

Longitude from Washington, lli" W. 

Latitude, 42° 58' N. 

Director: William 11. Brooks. 

Instruments : 

(c) A silver-glass reflecting telescope of 5 inches aperture and 50 
inches focal length, mounted as a Newtonian on alt-azimuth stand. A 
2iuch reflector, 36 inches focus. Both made by the director. 

{(j) Clock: Meantime; makers unknown ; marine. 

Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. 

Central High School Observatory. 

Longitude from Washington, 7"' 33«.G4 E. 
Latitude, 3(P 57' 7.5" N. 
Director: M. B. Snyder. 

Poughkeepsie, New York. 

Vassar College Observatory. 

Longitude Irom Washington, 12"' 38.5" E. 
Latitude, 41° 41' 18" N. 
Director: MARIA Mitchell. 
Observatory was built in 1865. 

Instruments : 

{a) Meridian circle : Maker, YouNG, of Philadelphia ; aperture of ob- 
jective, 3f inches. 

(c) Equatorial instrument : Object-glass by Clark ; aperture of ob- 
jective, 12.\ inches; magnifying- power of eye-pieces, 200 to 600+. 



396 ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATORIES. 

{/) Chronograph: Oue. 

{(j) Clock : One sidereal ; makers, Bond & Son. 
[h] One chronometer : Mean time; makers, Bliss & Creighton. 
(i) Miscellaneous : Small telescopes ; one by Clark & Sons ; aper- 
ture, 3 inches. 

Princeton, New Jersey. 

Observatories of the College of N etc Jersey.* 

I. Ualstead Observatory. 

Longitude from Washington, O"* 32.G08 E. 
Latitude, 40° 20' 55.8" N. 
Director: Prof. C. A. YouNG. 

Situated at the western extremity of the college campus, and about 
half a mile west of the School of Science observatory. 

The large telescope has been placed in position. The required funds 
have been subscribed by the friends of the college, Robert Bonner, 
of New York, li. L. Stuart, and the trustees of the John C. Green 
estate being the largest contributors. 

. The iron dome under which it is mounted is 39 feet inside diameter, 
and very heavy. A 4-horse gas-engine in the basement furnishes the 
jtower for moving it and managing the shutter. It is possible to raise 
the shutter, turn the dome to any part of the sky, and have the tele- 
scojie pointed upon any designated object within five minutes after enter- 
ing the building. The same engine drives a small Edison dynamic 
machine, which supplies electric light to all parts of the observatory 
and furnishes electric currents for spectroscopic work. 

II. Observatory of the John C. Green School of Science. 

Longitude from Washington, 9'" 34.54^ E. 
Latitude, 4()o 20' 57.8" N. 
Director: Prof. C A. Young. 

The establishment is designed for purposes of instruction, and devoted 
almost entirely to that object. 

Providence, Ehode Island. 

Seagrave Observatory. 

Longitude from Washington, 22'" 34.518 E. 

Latitude, 41° 49' 4G.40" N. 

Authority for longitude and latitude: United States Coast Survey, 

and ourselves, F. E. Seagrave and Leonard Waldo. 
Director : F. E. Seagrave. 



ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATORIES. 397 

Instruments : 
(c) Equatorial instrument: Oneeqiuitorial; makers, Alvan Clark & 
Sons; aperture of objective, SJ iucbes ; maguifyiug powers of eye- 
Ijieces, 93, 121, 184, 311, 571 ; negatives, 518, 116, 230, 335, 375 ; positive 
eve-pieces acbroiuatic, 248. 

" (d) Spectroscope: One by Browning, wbicb consists of 4 whole and 2 
half prisms of GiP ; Hint glass ; gives a dispersive power of ten prisms 

by reflection. 

Chronometer : Sidereal ; maker, Victor Kullberg, London. 

Rive RD ALE, New York. 
Private Observatory. 

Longitude from Washington, 

Latitude, • 

Director : William Meikleham. 

Observatory was removed from Fordham, N. Y. 

Instruments: 

(c) Equatorial instrument : Maker, John Byrne, of New York ; ap- 
erture of objective, 4yV inches; focal distance, 05 inches; magnifying 
powers of eye pieces, 20, 30, 45, GO, 80, 150, 250, 300, 350, and 450;- also 
an amplifier, which doubles each of these powers wheu used. Attached 
to the telescope is a finder of 1^ inches aperture, magnifying 21) diame- 
ters. ' Eight ascension circle divided to read to 4 seconds of time ; dec- 
lination circle divided to read to 1' of arc. Both circles divided on 
silver and read by microscopes attached thereto. Driving clock. 

{(1) Spectroscope : One. 

{(/) ClocTc: Mean time; maker, Setii Thomas, Son,^ & Co. 

(0 Miscellaneous: Filar micrometer; divided on silver to measure 
0".3 of arc in distance and G' in position, with suitable eye-pieces and 
illuminating apparatus. 

Rochester, New York. 

Warner Ohservattri/. 

Longitude from Washington, 3"' 8« W. 
Latitude, 43° 8' 15" W. 

Authority for longitude and latitude : Signal Service Officer. 
Director: Lewis Swift., 
Instruments : 
(c) Equatorial instrument : Makers, Alvan Clark & Sons (construct- 
ing) ; aperture of objective, IG iuches ; magnifying powers of eye- 
pieces, from 45 to 2000. [c') Altitude-azimuth, U inches, by Fitz ; 
powers from 25 to 432. Telescope 4i inch refractor, originally by Fitz, 
but since last report the flint lens of the objective was unfortunately 



398 ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATORIES. 

broken ; it has been replaced by Alvan Clark & Sons. Its ])erform- 
ance, whicli was always good, appears to be rather better than before 
the accident. 

Saint Louis, IMissouri. 

Ohficrvatory of Washington University. 

Longitude from Washington, 52"' 37.0::^ W. 

Latitude, 38o 38' 3.G4" W. 

Authority for longitude and latitude : A |)ier about 150 feet away frbtn 
the observatory pier was located by Eirnbeck in 1870. The 
longitude has again been determined by a Coast Survey party. 

Directors: J. K. Rees, 1877. 

H. S. Pritchett, 1881. 

Instruments : 

(h) Meridian transit instruynent : Maker, WtJRDEMANN ; aperture, 2.05 
inches; magnifying; power, 90 diameters, with micrometer attachment. 

(c) Equatorial instrument : Maker, H. Eitz, of New York City; aper- 
ture of objective, Q^ inches; magnifying powers of eye-pieces, 76, 125, 
190, 305, and 450 diameters. (</) Finder: 2Yi}o inches aperture; mag- 
nifying power, 23 diameters. 

(f/) Spectroscope: One single prism Browning spectroscope. 

(e) Photometer and other subsidiary apparatus : Filar position, microme- 
ter attached ; clock-work for moving telescope. 

{(j) Cloclc: Meantime; common tower clock. 

(/i) Chronometer : Mean time; makers, (1) Dent No. 2749, (2) Blackie 
No. 789. 

{i) Miscellaneous: Sextant, by Blunt, of New York City. 

South Bethlehem, Pennsylvania. 

Sayre Observatory of Lehir/h University. 

Longitude from Washington, 6™ 40,19*^ E. 
Latitude, 40° 36' 23.89" N. 
Director: C. L. Doolittle. 

Founded in 1877, in connection with Lehigh University. 
Instruments : 

(c) Equatorial instrument : Makers, CLARK & Sons; ai)ertnre of ob- 
jective, 6 inclies; magnifying powers of eye-pieces,' 12 to 225. 

(g) Clock : Sideral ; makers. Bond & Son. 

{i) Miscellaneous: A portable transit instrument by Stackpole, a 
zenith telescope by BLunt, and a prismatic sextant by PiSTOR & Mar- 
tin. 



ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATORIES. 399 

South IIadley, Massachusetts. 

Ohscrvafory of Mount Holyoke Seminary. 

Longitude from Washiiii^tou, 17"' 51.75^ E. 
Latitude, 42° 15' 18.2" N. 

Authority for longitude: R. IJ. West, by telegrapliic communication 
with Cambridge at the time of the transit of Venus. For lati- 
tude: C. A. Young, by zenith telescope method. 
Director: Miss E. ]\I. P.ardwell. 

Through the liberality of Mr. A. L. Williston, of ^Northampton, the 
seminary has recently been enabled to erect a small but very complete 
astronomical observatory, supplied with all the necessary instruments. 
It is designed to furnish the means for instruction to any who may wish 
to make the subject a specialty, and to give opportunity to any of the 
teacherff or post-graduates who may take an interest in astronomy to 
make observations of real value. 

The building, of wood, consists of a tower with a dome 18 feet in 
diameter, tianked by two wings, one extending to the east and one to 
the north. The dome is very light, and rotates so easily that even the 
feeblest of the young ladies can manage it without difliculty. The ar- 
rangements for opening and closing the shutters which cover the slit in 
the dome, and the openings for the transit and prime vertical instru- 
ment, are worked with equal facility. In the dome is mounted a fine 
8inch ecpiatorial by Clark, completely fitted out with clock-work, 
fin ding- clock, micrometers, spectroscope, solar eye-piece, etc., and so 
arranged that the circles can be read and the clamps and tangent 
screws worked from the eye-piece of the instrument. 

The object-glass is almost entirely the work of the senior Alvan 
Clark, and is one of the most perfect specimens of hisiirt. 

In the transit-room is mounted a meridian circle by Fauth & Co., of 
Washington. The instrument has a telescope of 3 inches aperture, and 
circles of IG inches diameter, reading to seconds by two microscopes. 
It has a reversing apparatus, and is fitted with a " latitude level" and . 
micrometer, so that it can, if desired, be used as a zenith telescope. A 
large collimator is mounted upon a pier south of it, and in a corner of 
the room is a clock with Denison escapement, also by Fauth & Co., 
as is the clironograph, which is mounted in an adjoining closet. The 
Observatory possesses also a sextant and artificial horizon and a set of 
meteorological apparatus. 

There is no instrument in the prime vertical room (which is used 
mainly as a waiting-room or for recitations), but it is provided with a 
pier and shutter, so that the meridian circle can be set up there if it is 
ever thought desirable to make observations in that plane. 



400 ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATORIES. 

Spiceland, Indiana. 

Private Ohservatory. 

Lougitiule from Wiisbingtou, 33™ 30«. W. (approximately). 
Latitude, 39° 50' N. (ai)proximatel.y). 
Director : William Dawson. 

Tarrytown, Xew York. 

Private Ohservatory. 

Longitude from Wasliiugton, 12"' 47.10^ E. 

Latitude, 4 1^04' 21" N. 

•Authority for lougitude and latitude: United States Coast Survey. 

Director : Charles H. Kockwell. 

Instruments : 
[(')' Fjquatotial intrument : makers, — glass. Dr. C. S. Hastings; — 
mounting, JonN Byrne; aperture of objective, 6^^ inches; magnifying 
powers of eye-pieces, 60, 112, 170, 243, 327, 400, 75L 

Troy, Xev\^ York. 

Williams Proudjit Observatory. 

Longitude from Washington, 13™ 27.5« E. 
Latitude, 42o 43'. 52". SO X. 

Authority for longitude and latitude: Longitude by electro magnetic 
signals from United States Naval Observatory. Latitude de- 
termined by observations with the zenith telescope. 
Director : Prof. Dascom Greene. 
Instruments : 

(b) Meridian transit instruments : Makers, — one by E. KuBEL, Wash- 
ington; aperture, 2.5 inches; niagnif\ing power, GO diameters. 

(&') Makers, Phelps & Gurlev, Troy; aperture, 2 inches; magni- 
fying powers, 30 diameters. 

{c) Equatorial instruments: Maker, IIenry Fitz, New York ; aper- 
ture of objective, 3.5 inches ; magnifying powers ot eye-pieces, 45 to 200 
diameters. 

{g) Gloclcs: Mean time; makers, Stokell, New York; and Howard, 
Boston. 

{h) Chronometers : Sidereal • maker, J. Fletcher, London. . 

(t) Miscellaneous : Sextant; Trouohton «S; Simms, London. 

Vevay, Indiana. 
Private Observatory. 

Longitu<le from Washington, . 

Latitude, . 

Director: Chas. G. Boerner, 



astronomical observatories. 401 

University of Virginia. 

Lcander McCormieJc Observatory. 

Longitude from "NVashingion, 5'" 53.13^ W. 
Latitude, 3SO 2' 1.2" K 
Director: Ormond Stone. 

Washington, District op Columbia. 

United States Naval Observatory 

Longitude from Greenwich, 5^ 8"^ 12.09* W. 
Latitude, 38° 53' 38.8" N. 
Directors : M. F. Maury, Idil. 

James M. Gilliss, 18G1. 

Charles H. Davis, 18G5. 

BEN.JAMIN F. Sands, 18G7. 

John Rodgers, 1874. 

Stephen C. Eowan, 1882. 

Egbert W. Siiufeldt, 1883. 

Samuel K. Franklin, 188-1. 

George E. Belknap, 1885. 

Allan D. Brown, 1886. 

Egbert L. Phythian, 18SG. 
Created by the Navy Department in 1833. 

Instruments : 
{a) Meridian circles : 1 ; makers, Pistor & Martins ; diameter of 
circles, 43.40 inclies; divided to 2'; read hy 4 microscopes to 0".l ; 
aperture of objective, 8.52 inches; for observations of the sun, aperture 
employed, 3 inches; magnifying power ordinarily employed, 186 diam- 
eters. 

(b) Meridian transit instruments: Makers, Brtel & Son, aperture 
5.33 inches; magnifying powers 85, 86, 106, 118, 162. 

{b') Eight portable transits and zenith telescopes combined, used on 
Transit of Venus Expeditions. 

(c) Equatorial instruments : Makers, Alvan Clark & Sons; aperture 
of objective, 26 inches; magnifying powers of eye-pieces, 176 to 1800. 

{&) MadebyMERZ: 9.62 inches aperture ; powers, 90-900. 

{c") Eight 5-inch equatorials by Alvan Clark & Sons, used on 
Transit of Venus Expeditions. 

(e) Photometers : One nebula-photometer (Hastings' pattern) for use 
with the 26-inch equatorial. 

(T) Chronograplis : Some 10 or 12 in all, of various kinds. 

(</) Clocks : Mean time, 2 ; sidereal, 6. 

(h) Chronometers: Mean time, all the chronometers of the United 
States Navy are kept here. Sidereal, eight, by Negus. 
H. Mis. 170 26 



402 ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATORIES. 

West Point, i^EW York. 

West Point Observatory. 

Longitude from Washington, 12™ 22.71« E. 

Latitude, 41^ 23' 31" :N". 

Director : Col. P. S. Michie, Ph. Dr. 

No regular work is done at this observatory beyond the practical 
instruction of the cadets in the use of the various instruments and the 
solution of the usual problems connected with the determination of 
latitude, longitude, time, etc., and work for local time, and local co- 
ordinates. 

In 1882 a fine and permanent observatory was erected, designed to 
combine the latest and most improved observatory plans and to be 
equipped well, and intended to be a regular working observatory. 

WiLLETs Point, New York. 

Field Observatory — Engineer School of Application. 

Longitude from Washington, 13'" 04.39« ± 0.14^ 

Latitude, 40° 47' 21.59" K ± 0.08". 

Authority for longitude and latitude: Longitude determined by tele- 
graphic time-signals from Unired States Naval Observatory, 
Washington; latitude determined by observations with zenith 
telescope. 

Director : General Henry L. Abbot. 

Instruments : 

(&) Meridian transit instrumeyits {four): One; makers, Lingke & 
Co., Silesia; aperture, 2i inches; magnifying power, — diameters; focal 
length, 30 inches. One, Russian transit, aperture, 2.0 inches; Stack- 
pole & Bro., New York ; focal length, 30 inches. One, Trouohton, 
aperture, 2 inches; Troughton, London; focal length, 30 inches. 
One, Stackpole; aperture, 2 inches; Stackpole & Bro., New York; 
focal length, 24 inches. 

(c) Equatorial instrument: Makers, Fauth & Co., Washington; 
aperture of objective, 5^ inches; magnifying powers of eyepieces, as- 
sorted. 

(/) Chronographs: Hipp's; Negus-Morse register. 

(/^) Chronometers : One mean time ; makers, Arnold & Dent. One 
sidereal ; makers, Lukens, Bond & Son. Both break-circuit. 

{i) Miscellaneous: One portable telescope, equatorially mounted; one 
zenith telescope — William Wurdemann ; two sextants, Stackpole 
& Bro. ; one personal equation machine ; one barometer, Green's 
cistern. 



ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATOlilES. 403 

WiLLIAMSTOWN, MASSAGIHTSETTS. 

Field Mtmorial Observatory. 

Longitiule fioin Wasliington, 15'" 18.G'' E. 

Latitude, 42° 42' 49" N. 

Director: TilUMAN HENRY Safford, Ph. D. 

Ypsilanti, Michigan. 

State Normal School Observatory 

Longitude from Wasbingtou, 20'" lO* W. 
Latitude, 42° 13' N. 

Authority for longitude and latitude, J. C. Watson. 
Director: Lewis McLouth, M. A. 
Instruments : 

{b) Meridian transit instrnment : Maker, Gurley, Alh'vuy ; aperture, 
li inches; magnifying power, 30 diameters. 

(c) Equatorial instrument : JMaker, A. Clark, Cambridgeport, Mass.; 
aperture of objective, 4 inches: magnifying powers of eyepieces, 45, 
90, 144, 210. 

{d) Spectroscope: Brown ii-iG, London, 2 prism. 

(Ii) Chronometer : Sidereal ; maker, Negus. 



404 ASTKONOMICAL OBSERVATORIES. 

II. FOREIGN OBSERVATORIES. 

Aberdeen, Scotland. (See Dun Echt.) 

Adelaide, South Australia. 

Observatory Branch of Post and Telegraph Department. 

Longitude from Greenwicb, d^ 14"^ 20.4« E. 
Latitude, 34° 55' 33.8" S. 
Director: C. Todd, 18G0. 

Algiers, Algeria. 

Observatoire National. 

Longitude from Greenwicb, 12'" 17* E. 

Latitude, 30° 44' K. 

Authority for longitude and latitude, A. Lancaster, Liste Generate 

des Observatoires et Astronomes, 1887. 
Director: C. Trepied. 

Altona, Prussia. 

Sternwarte. 

Longitude from Greenwicb, 39'" 4G.359 E. 

Latitude, 53° 32' 45.3" N. 

Autbority for longitude and latitude, Coiiuaissance des Temps, 1884, 

p. XX. 

Directors: H. C. Schumacher, 1816. 

A. C. Petersen (transient), 1851. 
P. A. Hansen, 1852. 
C. A. F. Peters, 1855. 
Built in 1815; transferred to Kiel in 1873. (See Kiel.) 

Antwerp, Belgium. 

Observatoire. 

Longitude from Greenwicb, 17"' 3S.C^ E. 

Latitude, 51° 12' 28" N. 

Autbority for longitude and latitude, A. Lancaster, Liste G(^Mi<5rale 

des Observatoires et Astronomes, 1887. 
Director: A. de Boe. 



ASTRONOxMICAL OliSERVATORIES. 405 

AiiMA(!n, Ireland. 

Observatory. 

Longitude from Greenwich, 20"' 35.5^ W. 

Latitude, n4o 21' 12.7" K 

Authority for longitude and latitude, Connaissanco des Temps, 18S4, 

p. xiii. 
Dhrctors : J. A. JIamilton, 1792. 

T. K. IIOBINSON, 1825. 

AsnuRT, England. 

Observatory. 

Longitude from Greenwich, 1'" IG^ W. 
Latitude, 51o 15' o8" N. 

Authority for longitude and latitude, Connaissauce des Temps, 1884, 
p. xiii. 

Athens, Greece. 

Observatory. 

Longitude from Greenwich, 1^' 'M^ 55.7'' E. 
Latitude, 37° ryS' 20" N. 
Directors : G. C. BoURiS, 1844, 

J. F. J. Schmidt, 1858. 

The observatory is an establishment of Baron Georg von S(NA at 
Vienna. At the wish of the first Athenian astronomer, Professor Bou- 
Ris, Baron I'rokerch von Osten, the Austrian embassador at the 
Grecian court, by his influence, had favored the project, and on the 
8tb of July, 1842, during the great eclipse of the sun. King Otto laid 
the first briok on the Hill of the Nymphs, the northern extremity of 
the Hills of Onyx, northwesterly of the Akropolis, in an isolated situa- 
tion, 105 meters above the level of the sea. 

The founder of thisestablishmeut, Georg von Sina, died in May, 1856. 
His son, SmoN, Baron von Sina, became the protector, and on May 15, 
1858, appointed J. F. Julius Schmidt as astronomer, and on the IGth 
of December, 1858, as director: 

Bamberg, Bavaria. 

Stermcarte, C. Remcis. 

Longitude from Greenwich, 43'" 32^ E. 
Latitude, 49° 53' 28" N. 
Director: E. IIartwig. 



406 astronomical observatories. 

Barnet, England. 

Arldey House Observatory (Private.) 

Longitude from Greenwich, . 

Latitude, . 

Proprietor : J. Campbell. 

Basel, Switzerland. 

Physikalisches Iiistitut, Bernoullianum. 

Longitude from Greenwich, 30'" 20^ E. 

Latitude, 47° 33' 40" N. 

Director : Ed. Hagenbach-Bischoff, 1874. 

Tlie institute was founded in 1874, and the astronomical instruments 
were mounted in 1878. 
Instruments : 

(a) The Meridian circle, constructed by the Societe Genevoise, with 
2iinch objective, by C. A. Steinheil. 

(c) The Equatorial made by the " Societe Genevoise pour la construc- 
tion d'instruments de physique" mounted on an isolated pillar, under a 
movable dome of 16^ feet (5 meters) diameter. The instrument is pro- 
vided with a centrifugal regulator, constructed according to Prof. M. 
Thury's directions, with position micrometer, spectroscope, and camera 
obscura. 

{(J) Spectroscope. 

{(j) The astronomical clock was constructed by Theodor Knoblich, 
m Hamburg. 

The mean time is given by means of an electric pendulum, by M. 
Hipp, in Neuenburg. 

Both clocks conuect with a number of dials in various rooms, and 
also with the chronograph. 

Basses-Pyrennees, France. 

M. D''Ahl)a(Ue''s Observatoire. 

Longitude from Greenwich, . 

Latitude, . 

Director : . ^ 

Bedford, England. 

Observatory. 

Longitude from Greenwich, 11"' 13^ W. 

Latitude, 52° 8' 28" N. 

Authority for latitude and longitude, Connaissance des Temps, 1884, 

page xiii. 
Director : . 



ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATORIES. 407 



Benares, India. 
Ohservatori/. 

Loii-itiule from Greenwicb, 5" 22"' 31« E. 

Latitude, 250 18' 33" N. 

Autliority for lougitude and latitude: Oonnaissauce des lemps, lbb4, 

l>age xxxviii. 

Director: 

Bergen, Norway. 

Naral Observatory. 

Longitude from Green wicb, 21'" 138 E. 

Latitude, G(P 23' 54" N. ^. . , 

Authority for longitude and latitude: A. Lancaster, Liste Generale 

des Observatoires et Astronomes, 1887. 
Directors : C. F. G. BoHR, 1818. 

J. J. ASTRAND, 1833. 

Founded in 1783. Has only been used to furnish standard time. 

Berlin, Prussia. 

Kdnigliehe Universitiits Stern mirte. 

Longitude from Greenwicb, 53>' 34-" 91« B. 

Latitude, 52° 30' 1G.7" X. 

Authority for longitude and latitude: [Loewy and Le Clerk] Con- 

naissance des Temps., 1884, p. xxvi. 
Directors : G. Kirch, 1706. 

J, H. Hoffmann, 1710. 
C. KiROn, 1717. 
J. W. Wagner, 1740. ' 
H. N. Grischow, 1745. 
J. KiES, 1754. 
F. U. S. Alpinus, 1755. 
J. J. HUBER, 175G. 
Jean Bernoulli, 17G7. 
J. E. Bode, 178G. 
J. F. Encke, 1825. 
W. J. Foerster, 18G5. 
Founded at the request of Leibnitz in 1705 ; completed in 1711. 
Originally situated in the suburb Dorotbeenstadt, in the northern part 
of the city. A great square tower of five stories, 4G feet in length and 
88i feet in height. This observatory was re modelled in 1787 and again 
in 1800. In 1833 a new observatory was built at the southern extremity 
of the Charlotteu strasse. It was here that Galle discovered Neptune 



408 ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATORIES. 

in 184G. The Astronomische Jabrbucli Las been published annually 
since 1776. 

Bern, Switzerland. 

iSternwai'te. 

Longitude from Greenwich, 29"' 45.00^ E. 
Latitude, 40° 57' 8.7" X. 
Directors : F. Trechsel, 1821. 

It. Wolf, 1847. 

J. Koch, 1856. 

H. Wild, 1859. 

A, J. T. FORSTER, 1871. 

Constructed upon a bastion in 1821. In jdan a regular octagon, the 
circle described about which has a diameter of 65i feet (20 meters). 

Besan^on, France. 

Obscrvatoire. 

Longitude from Greenwich, 23'" 57.5* E. 

Latitude, 47° 14' N. 

Authority for longitude and latitude: A. Lancaster, Liste G6n6rale 

des Observatoires et Astronomes, 1887. 
Director : L. J. Gruey. 

Bilk, Prussia. (See Dusseldorf.) 

Birr Castle, Ireland. 

Parsonstoicn Ohsercatory. 

Longitude from Greenwich, 31'" 40.9' W. 
Latitude, 53° 5' 47" N. 
Director : The Earl of Kosse. 

Instruments: 
The celebrated 60-foot reflecting telescope, with a 6-foot speculum. 

Blenheim Park, Oxford County, England. 

Observatory. 

Longitude from Greenwich, 5'" 26» W. 

Latitude, 51° 50' 28" K 

Authority for longitude and latitude : Connaissauce des Temps, 1884, 

p. xiii. 
Director: . 



ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATORIES. 40S 

BogotX, United States of Colombia. 

I. Ohscrvatorio Astronomico Nacional. 

Longitude from Greeinvicli, 4'' 5G'" 59^ W. 

Latitude, 4° 35' 48" :N^. 

Directors: Francisco Jose de Caldos, 1805-1810. 

Benedicto Dominguez, 1837. 

Indalecio Lievano, 1862. 

Jose M. Gonzales Benito, 18G7, 
The observatory was built in 1803 under tlie auspices of the Viceroy 
Don Pedro Mendimeta and the botanist Mutiz, according to the 
l^lans of Domingo Petres. From 1810 to 1837 it was abandoned. It 
w^as finally reorganized in 1881, by order of the President of the Re- 
public, Rafael Nttnez, by Jose M. Gonzales Bekito, its present 
director. 

IF. Obserratoire Flammarion. 

Founded in 1881 by Jose M. Gonzales Benito, director of the 
National Observatory of Bogota, in honor of Camille Flammarion. 
It is built in the private dwelling of M. Gonzales. 

Bologne, Italy. 

Ohservatorio Astronomico. 

Longitude from Greenwich, 45"' 24.9* E. 
Latitude, 44° 29' 47" N. 
Director : A. Saporetti. 

Bombay, India. 
Oovernment Observatory at Cohiha. 

Longitude from Greenwich, 4^^ 51" 12.09'^ E. 
Latitude, 18° 53' 45" N. 
Director: Charles Chambers. 

The principal work of the Colaba observatory is in the fields of ter- 
restrial magnetism and meteorology, and astronomical observations are 
made only for the practical purpose of time-keeping, partly for the pub- 
lic service and partly for the use of the observatory. 

Bonn, Prussia. 

I. Universitdts Stermvarte. 

Longitude from Greenwich, 2S«» 23.29« E. 

Latitude, 50° 43' 45" N. 

Authority for longitude and latitude : [Le Clerk and Benardi^res] 

Connaissance des Temps, 1884, \). xxvi. 
Directors : K. D. von Munchow, 1818. 

F. W. A. Argelander, 1837. 
E. SchOnfeld, 1875. 
Founded in 1818, near the university. The erection of a more com- 



410 ^ ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATORIES. 

l)lete observatory was decided upon iu 1837, and the new establisbment 
was finished in 1840. It includes two balls for meridian instruments 
and five turrets. Here it was tbat tbe review of tbe beavens, known 
under tbe name of Diirchmusferiing, was undertaken and accomplisbed 
under tbe direction of Argelander, including all stars up to tbe ninth 
magnitude. 

TI. rhotometrisches Observatorium. 

Longitude from Greenwich, . 

Latitude, . 

Director : J. T. Wolf. 

BOTHKAMP (NEAR KiEL), PRUSSIA. 

Sternicarte des Kammerherrn von Billow. 

Longitude from Greenwich, 40™ 30.8^ E. 
Latitude, 54o 12' iV G if. 
Oirner : Karamerberr voN BtJLOW. 
Astronoiners : Dr. Vogel, 1870. 

Dr. LOHSE, 1870. 

Dr. DE Ball, 1881, 1882. 

F. C. Lamp, 1883. 

Tbe observatory was established in 1870. Most of the work done 
between the years 1870 and 1874 was spectral analysis by Drs. Vogel 
and LoHSE. These gentlemen receiving a call to tbe Astro-physical 
Observatory at Potsdam, tbe observatory remained in idleness until 
1881, when Dr. de Ball took charge. On September 3, 1882, he dis- 
covered here a planetoid (230). 

Bordeaux, France. 

Ohservatoire. 

Longitude from Greenwich, 2"' 5.54* E. 

Latitude, 44° 50' 17" N. 

Authority for longitude : A. LANCASTER, Liste Generale des Observa- 

toires et Astronomes, 1887. 
Director: G. Eayet, 1879. 

Tbe observatory, created by a decree of tbe President of tbe French 
Republic under date of March 11, 1878, was erected attbejoint expense 
of the city and tbe Eepublic on the summit of a bill, about 4 kilo- 
meters (2^ miles) E.SB. of tbe center of tbe city. Each instrument is 
placed in a separate building. 



astronomical oi5servatories. 411 

Bremen, Germany. 
I. Observatoi ium der Navigations- Schule. 

Longitude from Greenwicb, 35'" 15=^ E. 
LntitiKle, 55° 1' 48" N. 
Director : . 

II. Observatnrinm dcs Herrn Others. 

Longitude from Greenwicb, 35'" 15'' E. 

Latitude, 53° 4' 3G" N. 

Authority for longitude and latitude: (Astr. Nach., iv, 392) Con- 

naissauce des Temps, 1881, p. xxvi. 
Director: . 

Breslaii, Prussia. 

Universitats iStermcarte. 

Longitude from Greenwich, 1^' 8'" 8.90'' E. 
Latitude, 51° 0' 50.5" N. 
Directors : L. A. Jungnitz, 1780. 

E. J. SciioLTZ, 1831. 

P. H. L. von BoGUSLAWSKi, 1841. 
Prof. Dr. J. G. Galle, 1851. 
Established by L. A. Jungnitz. 

Observations here were begun about 17G0 at the gymnasium, (high- 
school) where J. E. Scheibel, the professor of mathematics, had collected 
a few instruments. They were continued at the university, and the 
observatory properly so called was gradually developed. 

Brest, France. 

Ohservatoire de la Marine. 

Longitude from Greenwich, 17'" 58'' W. 

Latitude, 48° 23' 32" i^. 

Authority for longitude; A. Lancaster, Liste Generale des Observa- 

toires et Astronomes, 1887; for latitude, Connaissauce des 

Temps, 1884, p. iv. 
Director : Di; Kermarec. 

Brussels, Belgium. 

I. Ohservatoire Royal. 

Longitude from Greenwich, 17'" 28.9^ E. 
Latitude, 50° 51' 10.7" N. 
Directors : L. A. J. Quetelet, 1829. 
J. C. IIouzeau, 187G. 

F. Folie, . 



412 ASTEONOMICAL OBSERVATORIES. 

Projected in 182G, beguD iu 1829, completed iu 18.31. A large ball for 
meridian observations is located between two wings, eacb surmounted 
by a turret. 

II. Observatoire de C. Montigny [Private). 

Longitude from Greenwich, . 

Latitude, . < 

Director: (J. MoNTlGNY. 

Buda-Pesth, Hungary. 

I. Stermcarte. 

Longitude from Greenwich, 1'' IG™ 13^ E. 

Latitude, 47o 29' 12" N. 

Authority for longitude and latitude: (Lindenau, 184G, c. 1866), Con- 

uaissance des Temps, 1884, p. xxix. 
Directors : J. Pasquich, 1804. 
P. TiTTEL, 1824. 

L. Mayer, 1831. 
Founded upon the "Blocksberg" or "Gcrbardsberg" iu 1803, and was 
destroyed in 1849. 

11. Geodefischcs Observatorium des Poly techniJcums. 

Longitude from Greenwich, 1'' IG" lo.4« E. 

Latitude, 47° 29' 34.7« K 

Authority for longitude and latitude, A. Lancaster, Liste Generale 

des Observatoires et Astronomes, 1887. 
Director: Stephen Krusper. 

III. K. Ting. Central- Anstalt fiir Meteorologie uml Erdmagnetismus. 

Longitude from Greenwich, 

Latitude, 

Director: Dr. GuiDO Schenzl. 

Bukarest, Roumania. 

Universitdts Stermcarte. 

Longitude from Greenwich, 1'' 44™ 2G» E. 

Latitude, 44° 25' 39" N, 

Director: . 

BusHEY Heath, England. 

Observatory. 

Longitude from Greenwich, 1'" 20*^ W. 

Latitude, 51° 37' 44" N. 

Authority for longitude and latitude: Connaissanee des Temps, 1884, 

p. xiii. 
Director: . 



ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATORIES. 413 

Cadiz, Spain. 

Naval Observatori/. (See San Fernando.) 

Cairo, Egypt. 

Ohser vato ire Khedivial. 

Longitude from Greenuicb/J^' 5'" S.91« E. 

Latitude, 30° 4' 38.2" N. 

Autliority for longitude and latitude: Liste GeueraledesObservatoires 

- et Astronomes, 1887. 
Director : Mahmgiid. 
Founded about 1850. 

Cambridge, England. 

Ca mhridge Observatory. 

Longitude from Grceuwicli, 22.75^ E. 
Latitude, 52° VI' 51".6 Is^. 
Directors : W. Ludlam, 17G7. 

A. Shepherd, 17(>1). 

S. Vence, 1797. 

E. WOODHOUSE, 1820. 

G. B. Airy, 1827. 

J. Challis, 1836. 

J. C. Adams, 1860. 
Commenced at Christ College ; removed to St. John's College in 1767. 
In 1764 a special location was assigned to it above the entrance gate of 
Trinity College. The senate of the university caused a better observa- 
tory to be erected in 1820, which was completed in 1824. The struct- 
ure consists of four halls, forming a cluster of buildings. 

Capetown, Africa. 

Royal Observatory, Gape of Good Hope. 

Longitude from Greenwich, T' 13'" o3^ E. ^ 

Latitude, 33° 56' 3.4" S. 

Authority for longitude, Henderson ; for latitude, E. J. Stone. 
Directors : 

F. Fallows, 1820. 

T. Henderson, 1831. 

T. Maclear, 1834. 

E. J. Stone, 1870. 

David Gill, 1879. 
Founded in 1820, Owned no instruments of importance until 1829. 
It was not at this observatory tliat John Herschel made his observa- 
tions, but some distance from here on a private estatecalled Feldhausen, 



414 astlionomical observatories. 

Instruments : 

{a) Meridian circle, by Eansome & Simms for the engineering part ; 
Troughton & SIMMS for micrometric and optical part; a sister instru- 
ment to the Greenwich circle ; diameter of circles, G6 inches, divided 
to 5'; read by G microscopes to O'.Ol estimating easily to O'.Olll as at 
Greenwich. Aperture of objective, 8 inches; magnifying power always 
employed, 200 diameters. 

(c) Eq^iatorial insiruments : Makers, object-glass bj' Merz, mounting 
(German form) by Troughton & Simms; aperture of objective, 6.9 
inches; magnifying power of eye-pieces, 40 to 400. [c') Small equato- 
rial, 3-6-inch aperture (Dollard), 46 inches focal length, mounting on 
long polar axis (English form), maker unknown; without clock-work, 
at i^resent dismounted. 

{d) Spectroscope : Spectroscope by Troughton & Simms. 

(/) Chronofjraph, one by Bond, not at present in use. 

(g) Clocks: One mean time; maker, Molyneux: one sidereal, maker, 
Barraud. 

(h) Chronometers : Mean time and sidereal. A supply of these instru- 
ments kept for use of Her Majesty's ships ; consequently frequently 
changed. 

(i) Miscellaneous : A heliometer of 5 feet focal length, 4 inches 
(French ) aperture. Tube and cradle by Repsold, mounting by Grubb. 
(This instrument is the private property of Mr. Gill.) 

Carlsburg, Hungary. 

Sternwarte. 

Longitude from Greenwich, T' 34'" 17^ E. 

Latitude, 46° 4' 17" N. 

Auchority for longitude and latitude: Connaissance des Temps, 1884, 

p. xxix. 
Director : Domherr Franz Bares. 

Catania, Italy. 

Observatory on Mount Etna. 

Longitude from Greenwich, . 

Latitude, . 

Director: . 

Chapultepec, Mexico. (See Tacubaya.) 

Observatorio Astrononiico Nacional. 

Longitude from Greenwich, 6^' 36"' 38.24" W. 
Latitude. 19° 25' 17.5" N. 

Projected in 1876; established in 1878; transferred to Tacubaya oh 
^.Tarch 8, 1883. 



astronomical observatories. 415 

Chkistiania, Norway. 

Uni rer,s it(if,s- Stern wa rte. 

Longitude from Greeiiwicli, 42'" 53. 65^ E. 
Latitiule, 50° 54' 43.7" N. 

Authoritj' for longitude and latitude : Bescbreibung und Lage der Uni- 

' versitiits-Sternwarte iuCIiristiauia; Yerhandlungender fiinften 

allgemeinen Conferenz der europiiischeu Gradmessung, p. 300; 

Exped. clironom. ex6cutee en 1844 entre Alton et Greenwieli. 

Directors : C. Hansteen, 1815. 

0. Fearnley, 1873. 

Projected in 1815; constructed in 1818; rebuilt at some distance 
from the first structure in 1830. 
Instruments: 

{a) Meridian circles : One; makers, Ertel, with objective by Frait- 
ENHOFER and Utzschneider : diameter, 38 inches; divided to 3', 
read by 4 microscopes to 2"; aperture of objective, 4 inches; magni- 
fying ])ower, 180 diameters. 

(/>) Portable transit instrument: PiSTOR «& Martins, makers ; aper- 
ture of objective. 2 inches ; magnifying power, 80 diameters. 

(c) Equatorial by A. & G. Repsold. Diameter of circles, 30 inches, 
divided to 3'; read by 2 microscopes to 1"; aperture of objective, 4^ 
inches; magnifying i)ower, 50-290. Wire micrometer and ring micro- 
meter, {c') Refractor: Makers, G. Merz & Soiine ; objective, 7 
inches; magnifying power, 80-000 ; diameters of circles 10 and 14 inches; 
read by 2 Xoniers each to 4^ and 10". Wire micrometer. 

{d) Small universal star-spectroscoi)e by Merz, a vision directe. 

{(j) Clocks: One sidereal : pendulum, by Kessels, 13G5 ; one mean 
tiujc, by Urr. Jurgensen og Sonner (for the bifilar): one by L. 
Lamtvork (for the unifilar); F in the magnetic building. 

{h) Chronometers: Meantime; (Box) Kessels, 1259; (Pocket) Kes- 
sels, 1280 : one sidereal ; Dent, 2103. 

(i) Unifilar magnetometer, by Meyerstein ; bifilar magnetometer, 
by Meyerstein inclinatometers, by Gambey, Barlow, Dover ; siphon 
barometer, by Pistor ; cistern barometer, by Fortin ; thermometers, 
pluviameters, etc. 

Churts, England. 

Private Observatory. 

Longitude from Greenwich, . 

Latitude, . 

Director: R. Carrington. 
Discontinued upon the death of Mr, Carrington in 1875. 



416 ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATORIES. 

CoiMBRA, Portugal. 
Obscrvatorio Magnetico-Meteorologico de la Universidade de Coimbra. 

Longitude from Greenwich, 33" 34.1 « W. 

Latitude, 40° 12' 25.8" N. 

Directors: J. Monteiro de Rocha, 179G. 

De Pinheiro, 1820, 

De Souza Pinto, 1855. 
Established about 1700. From 1779 to the present time the Astro- 
nomical Ephemeris has been published here, which for ten years i)re- 
vious (1789) had been issued at Lisbon. 

CoLLooNEY, Ireland (See Markree). 

Cologne, Prussia (See Klon). 

Colombo, Ceylon, Asia. 

Private Observatory. 

Longitude from Greenwich, 5'' 19'" 23^ E. 
• Latitude, 0° 55' 33" N. 
Authority for longitude and latitude: Connaissauce des Temps, 1884, 

p. xxxix. 
Director: Mr. Green. 

Constantinople, Turkey. 

Observatoire Imperia I. 

Longitude from Greenwich. V^ 55"' 50*' E. 

Latitude, 40^ 1' 40" N. 

Authority for longitude and latitude: A. Lancaster, Liste Geuerale 

des Observatoires et Astronomes, 1887. 
Director : A. Coumbary. 

Copenhagen, Denmark. 

Universitets Astronomislce Observatorium. 

Longitude from Greenwich, 50'" 19,2" E. 
Latitude, 50° 41' 13.G" K. 
Directors : C. Lumborg, 1637. 

T. Bartholin, 1647. 

O. Roemer, 1681. 

Peter I. Horrebow, 1714. 

C. Horrebow, 1753. 

T. BuGGE, 1777. 

U. C. Schumacher, 1815. 

Von Caroc, 1822. 

C. F. R. Olufsen, 1832. 

H. D'Arrest, 185(;. 

T. N. Thiele, 1875, 



ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATORIES. 417 

Founded in 1G37, but only completed in 105G. The first edifice ^vus 
destroyed by fire the 20th of October, 1728. The observatory was re- 
established in the round tower belougiuf? to the University. In 1820 
:v wooden addition was made to it on the Uolken bastion. In 1857 it 
was removed to the glacis of the fortress between the citadel and the 
Osterthor (eastern gate). In 1859-'.G0, a new building was erected upon 
the Eosenborg bastion of the old fortress. At present this new observa- 
tory is surrounded by the Botanical Garden. 

Cordoba, Argentine Republic. 
Observatorio Nacional Argentina. 

Longitude from Greenwich, 4'' IG"' 45.1^ W. 
Latitude, 31° 25' 15.4« S. 

Director : B. A. GoULD, 1870. 

Proposed in 18G9 ; built in 1871 on an eminence southeast of the town; 
a cruciform structure, with four towers at the extremities of the limbs 
of the cross. 

Cork, Ireland. 

Observatory of Queen's College. 

Longitude from Greenwich, 33°' 51^ W. 
Latitude, 51° 54' i^. 

Authorit3^ for longitude and latitude: Counaissauce des Temps, 1884, 
p. xiii. 

Director: . 

Founded in 1878. Hill for meridian observations. Dome, 14f feet 
(4'".5) in diameter. 

Cracow, Austria. (See Krakau.) 
K. K. Universitiits Stermcarte. 

Cronstadt, Russia. (See Kronshtadt.) 
Naval Astronomical Observatory, 

Crowborough, Sussex, England. • 
Private Observatory. 

Longitude from Greenwich : 9.30'* E. 
Latitude: 51° 3' 14" N. 
Director: CnAS. Leeson Prince. 

Founded at Uckfield, Sussex, in 1854. Removed to the summit of 
Crowborough Dill in 1872. 
n. Mis. 170 27 



418 ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATORIES. 

CuCKFiELD, England. 

Observatory of G. Knott {Private). 

Longitude from Greeiiwicli, 0'" 34* W. 

Latitude, 51° 0' 35" K 

Authority for longitude aud latitude : A. Lancaster, Liste G6uerale 

des Observatoires et Astronomes, 1887. 
Proprietor: G.Knott. 

CzERNOwiTZ, Austria. 

Physil-alisches Institut der li. Ti. Franz Josephs Universitat. 

Longitude from Greenwich, . 

Latitude, . 

Director: Prof. Alois Handl. 

Danzig, Prussia. 

Observatorium dcr Naturforschenden Gescllschaft. 

Longitude from Greenwich : 1^ 14"" 37^9 E. 
Latitude : 54° 25' 58" N. 
Directors : von Wolf, 1780. 

Dr. Berendt, 1784. 

Dr. Jul. Aug. Koch, 1792-1817. 

Dr. Westphal, 1820-1821. 

Dr. Theodor Anger, 1831. 

Flemming, 1840. 

Kayser, 18G0. 

The observatory was planned by Wolf, and in 1780 the coruer stone 
for the building was laid by him on the summit of the Bishofsberg, au 
elevated position. In 1781 the building was completed and used by 
WoLF; on the 17th of December, 1781, for the observation of the solar 
eclipse. 

lu 1800 the invasion of the French army necessitated the removal, 
to a safe location in the city, of the instruments, aud the building on 
the Bishofsberg was occupied by the French army and partly torn 
down, but through the exertions of Dr. Kleefeld, of the society, the 
French provincial governor, General Eapp, had it restored. In 1812, 
however, its complete devastation became a necessity of war. 

In 1818 the society reclaimed the old site, intending to rebuild tue 



ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATORIES. 419 

observatory; the failure of obtaiuiug tbe requisite fuiuls, however, 
caused the project temporarily to be abandoned. 

]\leteorological observations alone were continued in Schonberg, near 
Carthaus. The collecting of astronomical instruments was continued, 
and in 1831 a small obser'satorj^ was erected upon the "Apotheke," in 
the "Neugarten." 

In 1860 the society authorized the erection of the present observatory, 
which was completed and inaugurated on the 2d of January, 1868, the 
one hundred and twenty-fifth anniversary of the Naturforscheude Gesell- 
schaft. 

Derpt (Dorpat), Russia. 
Imperatorsl-aia AstronomicliesTiaia Observatoria. 

Longitude from Greenwich, 1'' 40'" 53.5« E. 
Latitude, 58° 22' 47.4" N. 
Directors : J. W. A. Tfaff, 1808. 

F. G. W. Struve, 1813. 

J. n. Madler, 1840. 

T. Clausen, 1874. 

L. ScnwARZ, 1878. 
Founded in 1808 as a dependency of tbe university. In 1825 Fraun- 
hofer's equatorial, with an aperture of 9 inches and a focal length of 
13J feet, moved by clock-work, the largest and most powerful refractor 
in the world at that time, was mounted there. With the help of this 
instrument the elder Struve accomplished his famous Mcnsurcv Mi- 
crometriccv, published in 1837, and continued by his successor. 

Dentz, Germany. 

. Sternwarte des Hcrrn E. Mengering {Private). 

Longitude from Greenwich, 27" 49«.9 E. 

Latitude, 50° 50' 33" N. 

Authority for longitude and latitude: A. Lancaster, Listo Generale 

des Observatoires et Astronomes, 1887. 
Pro])rietor : E. Mengering. 

Dresden, Saxony. 

I. Kdnigliehcs Mathematisch-PhysiJcalisches Institut. 

Longitude from Greenwich, 54™ 50^ E. 
Latitude, 51° 3' 45" K 

Authority for longitude and latitude: A. Lancaster, Listo Generale 
des Observatoires et Astronomes, 1887. 



420 ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATORIES. 

Directors : J. Otto, 1560-1580. 

M. JosTELiN, 1580-1G09. 
L. Brunner, 1609-1G37. 
Tn. Hasell, 1G37-1GG1. 
ToB. Beutel, lGOl-1720. 
B. Michaelis, 1720-1740. 
H. EULENBURG, 1740-1743. 

F. Walz, 1743-1747. 
J. Mayen, 1747-17G8. 
E. Zeiter, ] 7G8-1783. 

G. KoHLER, 1783-1801. 
S. Seiffert, 1801-1818. 
A. Schmidt, 1818-1828. 
G. LOHRMANN, 1828-1840. 
R. Blochmann, 1840-1869. 
A . Drechsler, 1869. 

The Royal Matbematical-Pliysical Institute, an astronomical and 
meteorological observatory, together with a considerable collection of 
astronomical, physical, ami mathematical instruments, dating princi- 
pally from the xvi, xvii, and xviii centuries, had its origin in the 
cabinet of art which was founded in 1560 by August I, Elector of Sax- 
ony. 

II. Private Observatorium des Herrii B. von Engelhardt. 

Longitude from Greenwich, 54™ 54.80« E. 
Latitude, 51° 2' 16.80" N. 
Director : B. von Engelhardt. 

III. Private Observatorium des Uerrn Dr. Hugo Guericlce. 

Longitude from Greenwich, . 

Latitude, — . 

Director: Dr. Hugo Guericke. 

Drontheim, Norway. 

Observatory. 

Longitude from Greenwich, 41"' 49'* E. 

Latitude, 63° 25' 48" K 

Authority for longitude and latitude : Connaissancc des Temps, 1884, 

p. XX. 

Dublin, Ireland. 

Dunsinh Observatory, 

Longitude from Greenwich, 25'" 21» W. 

Latitude, 53^ 23' 13" N. 

Authority for longitude and latitude : Dr. Brunnow. 



ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATORIES. 421 

Directors : U. UssnER, 1774. 
J. Brinkley, 1792. 
W. E. Hamilton, 1827. 
F. Beunnow, 18G5. 
Egbert S. Ball, Astronomer Eoyal of Ireland, 1875. 

J3unsiuk Observatory belongs to Trinity College, Dublin. It was 
founded in 1774, by means of a legacy left for tbc purpose by F. An- 
drews. It is built in the midst of a vast park at Dunsink, 3f miles (6 
kilometers) northwest of Dublin, and was not finished until 1792. It 
is a structure of three stories, surmounted by a revolving dome. An 
annual visitation of the Observatory is held every summer by the board 
of Trinity College. 

Instruments : 

(«) Meridian circle : IMakers, PiSTOR & Martins j diameter of circles, 
30 inches; divided to 2'; read by 8 microscopes to 1"; aperture of ob- 
jective, 6.4 inches; magnifying power ordinarily employed, 180 diam- 
eters. 

{b) Meridian transit instruments : One, made by Eamsden; aperture, 
4 inches; not in use. {!/) One with reversible circle by Eamsden & 
Berge ; object-glass, 3 inches; diameter of circle, 8 feet; 3 micrometers; 
not in use. 

(c) Equatorial instruments : One; makers, Cauchoix object-glass, 
Grubb mounting; aperture of objective, 11:] inches; magnifying powers 
of eye-pieces, 300; is generally used, (c') One of 4 inches aperture; 
English equatorial by Tulley. (?) Hardly ever used. 

{d) Spcctroscojoes : One of Browning's 2-prism spectroscopes; and 
one of Vogel's small-star spectroscopes. 

(/) Chronograph: Maker, Grubb ; two barrels and controlled clock. 

{(j) Clocks: One mean time; maker, BooTii, of Dublin ; one sidereal; 
maker. Dent, Loudon. 

(/i) Chronometer: Sidereal; maker, M'Master. 

(i) Miscellaneous : The mean-time clock controls by electricity the 
clocks in the port and docks board and Trinity College, the distance 
being about 5 miles from Dunsink. 

Dun Echt (Aberdeen), Scotland. 

Longitude from Greenwich, 9™ 40« W. 

Latitude, 57^ 9' 30" N. 

Authority' for longitude: Ordnance Survey; for latitude, observations 
with a SiMMs's alt azimuth. The transit circle confirms the re- 
sult within a fraction of a second. 

Astronomer : Ealph Copeland. 
Dun Echt Observatory, the property of the Earl of Crawford 

AND Balcarres (late Lord Lindsay), is on the estate of Dnn Echt, 

about 13 miles west of Aberdeen. 



422 a.stronomical observatories. 

Instruments: 
(«) Meridiem circles: 1. Transit circle by TROrGnTON & Simms; one 
movable and one fixed circle; diameter 3G iuclies, divided to 5"; IG 
microscopes (carried by 2 Alidade circles, 1 movable and 1 fixed), read- 
ing to l"-tentli by estimation ; aperture of object-glass 8.59 inches ; 
GJ -inch collimators 5 2^-inch axle telescope. 2. Eeversiug transit with 
Vs for meridian and prime vertical, by T. Cooke & Sons; 4-inch ob- 
ject-glass. 3. Transit instrument by Troughton & Simms; 2f-inch 
object-glass. 

(b) Meridian transit instruments: 1. Alt-azimuth, by Troughton & 
Simms ; 12-inch circles, divided to 5' ; 4 microscopes, vertical and hori- 
zontal circles reading seconds and tenths b.y estimation. Ilorizontal 
circle movable. 2. Theodolite by T. Cooke & Sons. 3. Theodolite by 
Apps. 

(c) Equatorial i^istruments : One 15.06-inch refractor by Grubb. Sev- 
eral sets of eye-pieces. Bifilar micrometer. Merz helioscope. Dawes 
solar eye-piece, 2, 3, 74-inch finders. This telescope is controlled abso- 
lutely by the sidereal clock. Driving-clock by T. Cooke & Sons, made 
to special design. 2. One 12.9-inch reflector 122.5 focus ; mirror by 
Kev. H. Cooper Key, English mounting. 3. One 12:|-inch reflector by 
Browning. Solar spectroscope. 4. One G.OG-inch refractor by Simms; 
bifilar and double image micrometers, used generally for comet seeking. 
5. One G.04-inch refractor by T. Cooke & Sons; complete. 6. One 
4inch refractor by T. Cooke & Sons; bifilar micrometer. Clock by 
Eichens; complete. 7. One 3-ineh refractor by T. Cooke & Sons. 
Bifilar micrometer; complete. 

{d) Spectroscopes: Large solar spectroscope with 1 whole and 2 half 
EuTUERFURD prisms, with reversion and heliometer viewing telescope. 
Stellar spectroscope modified at Dun Echt (the one most used). Brown- 
ing 5-prism automatic solar spectroscope and 2 stellar ones; also Yogel 
spectroscope by Heustrell, and a variety of direct vision, quartz, and 
other prisms. Besides the above-mentioned spectroscope there is a 
6-prism automatic reversing- table instrument by Browning, and a hand 
direct-vision spectroscope used for aurorre. 

(e) Photometer ; Zollner astro-photometer by Ausfeld of Gotha. 

(/) Chronographs : 1. Four-fold barrel-chronograph, each barrel to run 
six hours, driven by the same clock as the 15.0G inch equatorial. 2. 
Portable fillet chronograph by Siemens. 

{(j) Clocls: 1. Sidereal clock, quicksilver compensation by Frodsham. 
2. Mean-time clock, quicksilver compensation by MoLYNEUX. 3. Elec- 
tric clock, outside dial and time gun. 

{h) Chronometers : 1. Kullberg ; mean time. 2. Farquhar; mean 
time. 3. J. Walker; mean time. 4. Frodsham; mean time 8-day. 
5. Walker ; sidereal (electric contact).. G. W^alker ; sidereal. 7. 
McLennan; -*^^ seconds; pocket M.T. 

(i) Miscellaneous: 1. Metre: A copy of the Metre du Conservatoire. 



Astronomical 0B,sf:itvAT0EiK.s. 423 

Fkoment. 2. Linear dividing engine by 1^'roment. 3. Linear divid- 
ing engine by Elliott BiiOTHERS. 4. Pbotograpli measuring machine 
by Geubb. o. Balance by Oertling. G. Five 2 meter and one IO- 
meter bars; Grubb. 7. Two comparator microscopes and long stone 
table. S. Ten-inch wheel cutting engine, Swiss; Jenssen & IIensen. 

(/) L Sprengel pump six end on and many Geissler tubes. 2. Air- 
pump and apparatus. 

(Zr) Various photographic apparatus. 

(/) A large assortment of electrical and electro-magnet ical appa- 
ratus. One standard and one marine barometer, Negretti & Zumbra. 
Various thermometers. Seven-inch spherometer, 1 part=y(jiyo inch, 
Yo^,L___th by estimation ; 4 inch si)herometer; both by IIilger. Arith- 
mometer by Thomas de Colmar; six places. Arithmometer by 
TnoMAS DE Colmar ; ten places. Foucault siderostat byEiCHENS; 
1() inch mirror (and a spare one), silver in glass, by A. 1\L\RTIN. Silber- 
mauii heliostat by Dubosoq. Ileliostat by Buownino. King's baro- 
graph and aneiiiograph by Casella. Binocular microscoi)es by Smith 
& Beck and Boss. Pohiriscope by Ladd; 10-inch, (5-inch, and 4-iiich 
induction coils by Aprs. A large collection of cut crystals; also dif- 
fraction apparatus by Sciiwerd. 

Durban (Natal), Africa. 

Ohserraiorji. 

Longitude from Greenwich, 2^' 2'" 1.18" E, 

Latitude, 29o 50' 47.4" S. 

Authority for lougitudt^ and latitude: A. LANCASTER, Liste Generale 

des Observatoires et Astronomes, 1SS7. 
Director : E. Neisson, Government Astronomer. 

Durham, England. 

University Observatory. 

Longitude from Greenwich, G"' 19«.75 W. 

Latitude, 54° 4G' G.2" N. 

Directors : Temple Ciievallier, 1840. 

Samuel Waymouth, 1872. 

Robert John Pearce, 1873. 
Founded by subscription, 1840. First observations made in 1842. 
The observatory is under the general superintendence of the professor 
of mathematics in the University of Durham. 

DtissELDORF, Prussia. 

^Stcrmcarte [formerly at Bilk near DF/sseldorf). 

Longitude from Greenwich, 27'" 5« E. 
Latitude, 51° 12' 25" N. 

Authority for longitude and latitude, "Astronomische Nachrichten," 
G43, nnd " Berliner Jahrbuch." 



424 ASTEONOMICAL "• OBSERVATORIES. 

Directors: J. F. Benzenberg, 1809-1 SIG. 
F.Brunnow, 1847-1851. 
Egbert Luther, 1851. 

Established in 1809, b^' J. F. Benzenberg, the savant, who in 1844 
erected a more complete building at Bilk, IJ miles (2 kilometers) south 
of the town. This establishment, liberally endowed by its founder, be- 
cau)c the property of the town in 1847, and was enlarged by it in 1852. 

INSTRUjVIENTS : 

(«) An old repetition circle of 1 foot, by the late Baumann, at Stutt- 
gart, giving 10" of centesimal division. 

(h) Meridian transit instrument made by the late Emil Schroedter, 
at Diisseldorf, objective froin Munich, focal distance 2 feet, aperture 2 
inches, little circle divided in half degrees, with nonius, 1 minute. 

(c) New equatorial instrument, by Charles Bamberg, at Berlin, in 
use since September, 1877, objective by Dr. Sigmund Merz, at Munich, 
focal distance 7 feet, aperture 7 inches, magnifying powers of eye-pieces 
49 to 188. Stars of the 11.5 magnitude can be seen with it. Old reserve 
tube, with horizontal and vertical motion, made by Merz & Sons, at 
Munich, 1847, focal distance 6 feet, aj^erture 4^ inches. Stars of the 
11.0 magnitude can be seen with it. 

(w) Two old sidereal-time clocks made by Utzschneider & Frau- 
enhofer, at Munich. 

(/i) One njean-time chronometer by Kessels, at Altona, and a Swiss 
watch. 

Some small instruments of minor importance. 

Edinburgh, Scotland. 

I. Eoyal Observatory. 

Longitude from Greenwich, 12"^ 43.05« W. 
Latitude, 55^ 57' 23.2" N. 

Authority for longitude : 0. PiAzzi Smyth ; for latitude, Thomas Hen- 
derson. 
Directors: Thomas Henderson, 1833-1844. 
0. PiAzzi Smyth, 1845. 

A preceding so-called observatory tower existed on the site, which 
is a grassy and rocky hill-top in the midst of the city, from 177C, but 
no observations of scientific character were ever made there. It was 
founded by subscription, and was not completed until 1792. The pres- 
ent observatory was projected in 1812 and erected on shares in 1812. 
The municipality donated the ground. In 1833 the founders ceded its 
administration to the state, and in 184G made over the ownership. 



ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATORIES. 425 

It is by no means a model building for an observatory, beiug small, 
isolated, smoke-exposed, without dwelling-houses attached, often diffi- 
cult of access at night, hidebound by its too ornamental white-stone 
Greek architecture ; and looking, as well as acting, rather like a classi- 
cal temple of the winds than a modern working observatory. 

II. Ben Nevis Observatory. 

Longitude from Greenwich, . 

Latitude, . 

Director: . 



Elsfleth (Oldenburg), Germany. 
Stcrnuuirfc dcr Navigations Schule. 

Longitude from Greenwich, 33'" 52** E. 

Latitude, 53° 14' 4G" N. 

Authority for longitude and latitude: Connaissance des Temps, 18S4. 

Director: C. Behrmann, 187G. 

Erlau, Hungary. 

Sternivartc. 

Longitude from Greenwich, 1'' 30'" 32'* E. 

Latitude, 47° 54' 4" K 

Authority for longitude and latitude: Connaissance des Temps, 18S4. 

Director: Dr. Albert Franz von Montedego. 



Ekatherinebourg, liUSSIA. 

Macjnciic and Meteorological Observatory. 

Longitude from Greenwich, 4^^ 2"^ 48" E. 

Latitude, 5r,o 49' X. 

Authority for longitude and latitude : Kupffer, 1841 ; Fritsciie, 

1S73 and 187G; Scharnhorst und Kuiilberg, 1875, 
Director : G. O. Clerk. 

The observatory was built in 1835 ; regular observations began on 
January 1, 183G. It took part in the work of the first "Magnetischer 
Verein," and has lately been required to act as a "polar observatory," 
from August 1, 1882, until September 1,1883, according to the pro- 
gramme of the International Polar Commission, St. Petersburg, August, 
1881. 



426 astronomical observatories. 

Instruments: 

(&) Meridian transit instrument: Makers, Ertel & Sohn (small 
passage instrument), aperture, 1 .5 inches, {h') Another by Brauer in 
St. Petersburg (universal iustrumeut). 

(g) ClocJiS : One mean time ; maker, F. Flautii, in St. Petersburg 
(without No.) ; another regulator, without name. 

(/<) Chronometers : Mean time ; makers, F. Flauth, No. 37 : Wiren, 
No. SO. 

(i) Miscellaneous: I\lagnetic theodolite, Brauer, No. 37 5 Brauer-s 
compass for magnetieal declination and intensity ; GAMBET'sincliuato- 
rium ; variation magnetometers (syst. Gauss); several series of me- 
teorological instruments of diflereut construction ; thermometers for 
observation of the temperature from superficy to 3 meters depth. 

Florence, Italy. 

I. Reale Osscrvatorio Asironomico di Firenze ad AreetrL 

Longitude from Greenwich, 45'" 3.13« E. 

Latitude, 43° 45' 14.3" N. 

Authority for longitude and latitude: Royal Staff of Engineers. 

Director : Guglielmo Tempel. 

11. Observatory of the Royal Museum. 

Longitude from Greenwicli, 45"' 1.5" E. 

Latitude, 43° 4G' 4.1" N. 

Directors: Prof. F. Fontana, 1784. 

Alessandro Galilei. 

Fabbroni, 1805. 

Count Girolamo Bardi, 1807. 

DoMENico De Vecchi, 1808. 

Gaetamo Del liicco, 1814. 

Father Inghirami, 1815. 

LuiGi Pons, 1825. 

Giovanni Battista Amici, 1837. 

G. B. DoNATi, 1859. 

DOMENICO CirOLETTI, 1873. 

Prof. Pittei, 1874. 
GuGLiELMO Tempel, 1875. 

III. Meteorological Observatory of the Eoyal Museum. 

Longitude from Greenwich, . 

Latitude, . 

Director : Dr. PiTTEl, 1875. 



ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATORIES. 427 

IV. Observatory of San Oiorannino {Ximenia7i6). 

Longitude from Greeiiwicli, . 

Latitude, . 

Director : Prof. F. Cecciii. 

Founded by Father Leon7\rdo Ximenes, a Jesuit. 

In tbe annals of the Imperial Museum of Florence, Vol. II, for the 
year 1810, we read that about the year 1784, the Grand Duke Leopold 
I gave directions to his architect, Gaspero Paolettt, to niahe the de- 
signs for an observatory to be erected within the precincts of the Im- 
perial and Eoyal Museum of Physical Science and Natural History of 
Florence, of which the Abbe Felix Fontana was director. 

Prof. DoMENico Ue Vecchi, in an astronomical report inserted in the 
above-mentioned annals, dechires that after diligent search he was un- 
able to discover any historical document relative to the erection of this 
observatory-, and that the date of 1774 was given him by the Engineer 
Del Kosso. The same professor De Vecchi, in the introduction to the 
description of the Imperial Observatory (above annals, Vol. II), declares 
it to have been already constructed and furnished with some instru- 
ments as far back as the year 1775. 

In the year 1784, there had been collected in the observatory a clock, 
a transit instrument, and zenith sector, for the work of Professor Slop, 
of the University of Pisa, who also constructed a meridian, passing un- 
der the i)avement of a hall, which owes its name to this circumstance 
and bears the following inscription : " Linea meridiana ducta in obser- 
vatrio Pegii Musau Scientiorum Florentini, Petro Leopoldo, Imperaute 
anno, MDCCLXXXIV." 

In the year 1784, Professor Font ana began the meteorological obser- 
vations, using eight large instruments of his own invention and con- 
structed under his attention, care, and direction. Arrested in his ca- 
reer by calumny, and in consequence withdrawn from the Museum. 
Fontana was succeeded as director pro tempore by Alessandro Gal- 
ilei ; he was succeeded by Fabbroni, nominated by the ecclesiastical 
party in 1789 vice-director under Fontana. 

On the 1st of January, 1805, we find the entry of the death of this 
distinguished scientist, at a distance from that Museum, to which he 
had rendered such service as instructor and director. 

Shortly after, Fabbroni having been appointed director of the mint. 
Count GiROLAMO Bardi was named director of the museum in his 
place. Ue immediately founded several chairs of instruction, among 
them one of astronomy, which was assigned to Domenico De Vecchi, 
professor of physical sciences at the University at Sienna, and to him 
was also entrusted the directorship of the observatory (1807). 

De Vecchi remained in this position in the Florentine Observatory 
until July, 1814, when he was removed by an order of the Commissario 
Plenipotenziario, Prince Raspiglioli, under date of June 22, 1814. (This 



428 ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATORIES. 

order is foui^l iu a letter addressed to the director of tbe museum, num- 
ber 02, ill the file of papers relatiug to the trausactions of the I. and E. 
Museum for the year 1814.) Professor De Yecchi himself refers to this 
suppression in the memorial before mentioned, in speaking of the 
methods of observing with reflecting instruments. Professor De 
VECcni never returned to his office as instructor in the observatory. 

In the letter of Prince Easpiglioli to the director of the museum it 
was also stated: "I think it well to inform you that Father Gaetano 
DEL Eicco has been invited to take charge of the preservation of the 
astronomical instruments," which, iu consequence, were received from 
the professor himself, and held from June, 1814, to May 17, 1818, on which 
day, having passed from this life, Father Gaetano del Eicco was suc- 
ceeded by Father Inghirami, professor of astronomy in the Ximeniauo 
Observatory. 

At this point it is necessary to observe that the observatory of the 
Eoyal Museum was always an entirely distinct institution from that of 
San Giovannino, some time designated degli Scolopi, the latter having 
been founded by Father Leonardo Ximenes, Jesuit, from whom it de- 
rived the name of Ximeniano, which it retains and by which if is at this 
time especially distinguished. 

Father Inghirami held the position until the 7th of October of the 
same year, when, by desire of the Count, he had added to his other du- 
ties those of Director of the Museum. 

From 1814 to 1825 we find no document which proves the presence 
of an astronomer; it remained wholly inactive for a perio<l of about 
eleven years. 

In July, 1825, Prof. LuiGi Pons, of Marseille, was appointed, and suc- 
ceeded in 1837 by Prof. GiovANi Battesta Amici, of Modena, who 
held the directorship of the observatory until 1859, when he was re- 
tired on account of extreme old age. Although all the duties of the 
ofifice since 1852 had been performed by Prof. G. B. Donati, he did not 
succeed to the official title of director until 1804, a year after the death 
of Professor Amici. 

At that time DoNATi conceived the idea of erecting a new observa- 
tory in the vicinity of Florence; the old institution, in a central part of 
the town, no longer meeting the requirements of astronomical study, 
and not being large enough to hold the large and excellent equatorial 
constructed by his predecessor. Aided in this bold enterprise by the 
influence and support of the municipal, provincial, and state authority, 
and by securing the interest of King Victor Emanuel, Professor 
DoNATi, in October, 1872, was able. to inaugurate the new observatory 
on the Calle d'Arcetri, a little removed from the house, where, two hun- 
dred and thirty years before, Galileo had ended the labors of his life. 

To the new institution was transferred all the scientific material be- 
longing to the Department of Astronomy, and the place occupied by it 
in the observatory was devoted exclusively to meteorological observa- 



ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATORIES. 429 

tious, both brandies remaining- under the direction of Professor Donati, 
the nieteoi'ological division being re^treseuted in Florence by his assist- 
ant, Prof. COSTANTINUS PiTTEI. 

DoNATi having died on February 20, 1872, tlie charge of the new ob- 
servatory was given to Prof. Domenico Cipoletti, formerly Don ATI's 
assistant in the astronomical course, who lield. it until the following 
May, when he began to fail. The observatory at Arcetri was provisionally 
confided to Professor Pittei, until June 1, 1875, when Signor GuG- 
LiELMO Tempel was called as astronomer, wliich position lie still retains, 
and Professor Pittei thereupon assumed the definite direction of the 
observatory of the Museum, re-organized under special direction, and 
entirely separated from the observatory at Arcetri. 

Frankfurt, a. m., Prussia. 

Private Observatory. 

Longitude from Greenwich, 31"' 47. P E. 

Latitude, 50° 7' 3" N. 

Autliority for longitude and latitude: A. Lancaster, Liste G6iierale 

des Observatoires et Astrouomes, 1887. 
Director : Dr. Epstein. 

FuNcnAL, Madeira. 

Observatory. 

Longitude from Greenwich, !'•' 7'" 35.5^ W. 

Latitude, 32° 37' 40" N. 

Authority for longitude and latitude: Oonuaissance des Temps, 1884, 

p. Iv. 
Director : 

Galatz, Eoumania. 

Private Observatory. 

Longitude from Greenwich, 1'' 52'" 14** E. 

Latitude, 45° 20' 12" N. 

Authority for longitude and latitude: Conuaissance des Temps, 1884, 

p. xxix. 
Director : 

Geneva, Switzerland. 

Observatoire de Geneve. 

Longitude from Greenwich, 24"' 30.77^ E. 
Latitude, 40° 11' 58.8" N. 



430 ASTEONOMICAL OBSERVATORIES. 

Directors : J. A. Mellet Favre, 1772. 

M. A. PiCTET Turretin 1790. 
J. F. T. Maurice, 1794. 

P. PiCTET, 1802. 

A. Gautier; 1819. 

L, F. Wartmann, 1832. 

E. Plantamour, 1810. 

E. Gautier. 
Founded iu 1771, completed in 1773. Octagonal structure built in 
great part at the exj)ense of J. A. Mellet, upon a casemate of the 
Bastion Saint Autrine. In 1829 the representative council of the can- 
ton i)assed a resolution for the construction of a new observatory to be 
built upon the same bastion, not far from the old edifice. It is com- 
posed of a main building of one story, and of two lateral turrets with 
hemispherical domes. In 1879 the original building had an annex built 
to it ; at the same time a tower was erected to the west of the old 
building, iu which the 10-inch refractor, i)resented to the cantons of 
Geneva by E. Plantamour, has been placed. 

Genoa, Italy. 

I. Observatorio dclle B. University. 

Longitude from Greenwich, 

Latitude, 44° 24' 59" N. 

Directors : Giuseppe Garibaldi, 1830. 

Michele Alberto Bancalari, 1849. 

Pietro Maria Garibaldi, 1865. 
This observatory was entirely refitted iu 1874, and is particularly in- 
tended for meteorological observations. 

II. Observatory of the Eydrograj)liic Office. 

Longitude from Greenwich, 35'" 41.4» E. 
Latitude, 44o 25' 9.3" N. 
Director : G. B. MAONAoni. 

Georgetown, British Guiana. 

Observatory. 

Longitude from Greenwich, . 

Latitude, . 

Director : . 

Glasgow, Scotland. 

Observatory. 

Longitude from Greenwich, 17™ lO.G* W. 
Latitude, 55° 52' 42.8" N. 
Directors : J. P. NiciiOL, 1840. 
11. Grant, 18G0. 



ASTRONOMICAL OBSEllVATORIES. 431 

Coiuinoiiced in 1818 at the expense of a society, rermaiiently organ- 
ized with the help of a public subscription, of one subsidy from the 
University and another from the State. In 18G2 a special hall was 
added for an equatorial, which has an aperture of 9 inches: (0.23'"). 

GOHLIS (NEAR LEirZlG), SAXONY. 

I. Frivatc Siermcarte. 

Longitude from Greenwich, 49'" 28.0^ E. 
Latitude, 51° 21' 42.3" N. 

Authority for longitude and latitude : Prof. C. 0. Bruhns. 
Proprietor : August Auerbacii. 
Observatory was built in 1861-'G2. 

II. Private Stcrnivartc. 

Longitude from Greenwich, 49'" 29.05'^ E. 

Latitude, 51^ 21' 35" N. 

Authority for longitude and latitude: A. LANCASTER, Liste Geuerale 

des Observatoires et Astronomes, 1887. 
Proprietor: W. ^Vinkler. 

GoTHA, Germany. 

Sternioarte. 

Longitude from Greenwich, 42'" 50.5G8 E. 
Latitude, 50^ 5G' 37.5" N. 
Directors: E. X. von Zach, 1787. 

B. A. VON LiNDENAU, 1808. 

J. F. Encke, 1817. 
r. A. Hansen, 1825. 
A. KRtJGER, 187G. 
L. DE Ball (ad interim). 
H. Seeliger, 1881. 
Dr. E. Becker. 

The first observatory was erected in 1784, on the "Seeeerg," 1:^ 
miles (two kilometers) from the town. In 1853 a new observatory was 
built in the " Jiigerstrasse," not far from the ducal i)alace. 

Gottingen, Prussia. 

Konigliclie Stern warte. 

Longitude from Greenwich, 39'" 4G.4" E. 

Latitude, 51° 31' 7.9" N. 

Authority for longitude and latitude : Berliner Jahrbucb. 



432 ASTRONOMICAL OBSEEVATORIES. 

Directors : J. A. voN Segner, 1735. 
J. Tobias Mayer, 1754. 
a. M. LoRNiTZ, 1702, 
A. G. Kastner, 17G4. 
K. F. VON Seyffer, 1800. 
0. F. Gauss, 1807. 
Dr. E. F. W. Klinkerfues, 18G6. 
Dr. W. SCHUR. 

Fouuded iu 1731, at the same time with the university, and located 
ill one of the round towers of the ancient fortification, around which 
was built an exterior gallery. In 1811 the observatory was transferred 
to a more suitable spot outside the southern gate- way of the town. This 
new building is on the plan of a rectangle, with the longer sides facing 
east and west. An addition is made by wings to the north; a cupola 
surmounts the central vestibule, and a terrace encircles the whole struc- 
ture. In 1818 the first meridian circle ever made and mounted in Euroj^e 
was placed there. 

Instruments : 

{a) Meridian circles : One made by Eepsold, sr,, of Hamburg; diam- 
eter of circle 3^ feet, divided to 5' ; read by two microscopes to 1" ; ap- 
erture of objective 4-J inches (114"""); magnifying power ordinarily em- 
ployed, 9G diameters: one made by Eeichenbach, of Munich; diame- 
ter of circle 3 feet ; divided to 3' ; read by four microscopes to 0.24" ; 
aperture of objective 4^ inches (lOO*""') ; magnifying i30wer ordinarily 
employed, 50 diameters. 

• {h) 3Ieridi(m transit instrument : Maker, EEiCHENEAcn, of Munich ; 
aperture, 4 J inches (110'""') ; magnifying power, 75 diameters; (&') one 
portable, maker, Ertel, of Munich. 

(c) Equatorial instrument : Maker, Frauenhofer, of Munich ; aper- 
ture of objective, 2.9 inches (74'"™); magnifying power of eye-piece, 75. 
(c') Five telescopes : makers, 1st, Merz, of Munich ; 6 feet long, aper- 
ture 5 inches ; 2d, Steinheil, of Munich ; 5 feet long, aperture 4 inches; 
3d, DOLLOND, of Munich; 4 feet long, aperture, 3i inches; 4th, Dol- 
LOND, of Munich ; 3 feet long, aperture 3 inches ; 5th, Plossl, of Vi- 
enna ; 28 inches long, aperture 2^ inches. Three comet-seekers : makers, 
1st, Merz, of Munich ; inches aperture ; 2d, Merz, of Munich ; 3 
inches aperture; 3d, Voigtlander, of Brunswick; 2^ inches aperture. 

{d) Spectroscope : By Merz, of Munich. 

(/") Chronograph: By Ausfeld, of Gotha. 

{g) Cloclcs: One mean time; maker, CastenS; two sidereal: makers, 
1st, IlARDY, of London; 2d, Shelton. 

(li) Chronometers: Four mean time; makers, 1st, Berthoud ; 2d, 
Sackmann ; 3d and 4th, Knoblich ; 5th, HARDY ; sixtieth part of a 
second. 

(i) Miscellaneous: Heliometer by Frauenhofer, of Munich; theodo- 



ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATORIKS. 433 

lites, one by llEicnENBAcn, two by jVIeyerstein; sextants by Cary, 
Teougiiton, Pistor, Steiniieil, and Breithaupt ; two heliotropes 
by Meyerstein. 

Graz, Austria. 

I. rhysikalisches InstlUit der K. K. Carl Franzens Universitcit. 

Longitude from Green wicb, -. 

Latitude, . 

Director: Prof. l)r. LuDwiG Boltzjiann. 

II, Univcrsitliis Stermvartc. 

Longitude from Greeuwicb, 1'' 1"' 47.9" E. 

Latitude, 47° 4' 37.2" N. 

Authority for longitude and latitude : A. Lancaster, Liste Geu6rale 

des Observatoires et Astrouomes, IS87. 
Director : Dr. C. Friesach. 

III. rrivatc Stcrnwarte. 

Longitude from Greenwich, — — — . 

Latitude, . 

Director : E. Matiiey Guenet. 

Greenwich, England. 

Royal Observatory. ^ 

Longitude from Washington, 5^ 8"» 12.09'' E. 

Latitude, 51° 2S' 38.4" N. 

Authority for longitude and latitude : Nautical Almanac, Greenwich 

Observations, 1878. 
Directors: J. Flamsteed, 1075^ 

E. nALLEY, 1720. 

J. Bradley, 1742. 

N. Bliss, 1762. 

N. Maskelyne, 1765. 

J. Pond, 1811. 

G. B. Airy (Astronomer Royal), 1835. 

W. H. M. Christie (Astronomer lloyal), 1881. 

Founded by royal statute on the 4th March, 1675. Built in the park 
at Greenwich by CnRiSTOPHER Wren, architect. At first it consisted 
merely of an octagonal tower. In 1660 Fl amsteed put up an additional 
wing to accommodate the mural sector, with the help of which he made 
his catalogue of stars. The board of visitors was created in 1710. In 
1749 and the years immediately following great imi)rovements and 
additions were made. 

H. Mis. 170 -28 



434 ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATORIES. 

A statute of 1765 confirmed the right of supervision vested in the 
royal society and exercised by the board of visitors. In 1770 two re- 
volving domes were constructed upon the turrets, and these have served 
as models for all revolving turrets since constructed. In 1772 the first 
achromatic object glass ever used at Greenwich was attached to the south 
quadrant. In 1779 the expediency of enlarging the meridian openings 
was acknowledged; hitherto the aperture had only been 6 inches 
(0.15'"). 

At the beginning of the present century it became necessary to re- 
build the observatory, and the work, continuing until 1811, consisted in 
the construction of two rectangular buildings, the eastern one being the 
observatory proper, and containing halls for the meridian instruments, 
the library, and office, while the western structure was intended for the 
dwelling house of the superintendent. 

The present organization of Greenwich Observatory dares from a 
royal statute of 1830. According to the terms of this statute the board 
of visitors consists of the members of the Eoyal Society, the members 
of the Astronomical Society, and the Oxford and Cambridge professors 
of astronomy. 

As a finishing touch the immense dome to the southeast was built in 
1859. 

Instruments : 
{a) Meridian circle : One ; makers, Ransomes & May (engineers), 
TEOuaHTON & SIMMS (opticiaus) ; diameter of circle, 72 inches ; divided 
to 5' ; read by six microscopes to O.OG" ; four supplementary microscopes 
for determination of division errors and occasional use: aperture of ob- 
jective, 8.1 inches ; for observations of the sun, aperture employed, 8.1 ; 
magnifying ]>ower ordinarily employed, 195 diameters. 

{b') Altazimuth: Makers, Ransomes & May and W. Simms; aperture, 
4 inches. Magnifying power, 100 5 diameter of circles, 3 feet, divided 
to 5'. 

(c) Equatorial instruments : Makers, Eansomes & Simms (engineers), 
Tr'oughton & Simms (opticians), Merz (objective) ; aperture of ob- 
jective, 12.8 inches ; magnifying power of eye-pieces, 60 to 1500. (c') 
SheajysJianlc's equatorial: makers, T. Grubb, Cauchoix (objective); 
aperture of objective, 6.^ inches. Kaylor equatorial : maker, T. Cooke, 
of York; aperture, 6 inches. IShnclhurgh equatorial : maker, Ramsden; 
aperture, 4.1 inches. 

{(1) iSi;)ec<ros('Oj?cs ; Half -prism spectroscope; maker, Hilger. Direct 
vision : one, two, or three compound " half-prisms " with dispersions (A 
to H) of about 18i°, 83°, and 335°. Single prism stereoscope : Makers, 
Trougiiton & SIMMS ; one flint prism. 

(e) Photometer : Airy's double-image micrometer; makers. Trough- 
ton & Sim MS. 
(/) Chronograph : IMakers, E. Dent & Co. 



ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATORIES. 435 

(g) Clocks : One mean time ; Makers, Shepherd & Son: one sidereal; 
makers, E. Dent & Co., Hardy, Arnold, Graham. 

{h) Chronometers : Mean time; makers, various. Tliere are always ou 
hand a large number rated for the navy ; some of these are used when 
necessarj- for the Observatory. Sidereal ; none of accurate character. 

(0 Miscellaneous : Photoheliograph ; maker, Dallmeyer ; aperture 
of objective, 4 inches. Several portable telescopes ; aperture, 4 inches 
to 2^- inches. Five other Ginch equatorials (packed in cases) returned 
from Transit of Venus Expedition, 1874% Five 3-inch portable transits 
by SIMMS; one 14-inch alt-azimuth by Simms; three 14-inch altitude 
instruments by Simms ; four photoheliographs by Dallmeyer (all re- 
turned from the Transit of Venus Expeditions, 1874). 

Grignon (Cote d'Or), France. 
Ohservatoire du iwlcure de St. Jean. 

Longitude from Greenwich, 17™ 38^ E. , 

Latitude, 47° 33' 42" N. 

Authority for longitude and latitude : A. Lancaster, Liste G6nerale 

des Observatoires et Astronomes, 1887. 
Director : F. Mayeul Lamey. 

GuiLDowN (Surrey) England. 
Frivate Ohservatory. 

Longitude from Greenwich, 1^" 55.1* W. 

Latitude, 51° 13' 39.2" N. 

Authority for longitude and latitude : A. LANCASTER, Liste Generale 

des Observatoires et Astronomes, 1887. 
Proprietor : J. Eand Oarron. 

Habana, Cuba. 
Ohscrvatorio del M. Colcgio dc Bclen. 

Longitude from Greenwich, 5'' 29'" 30* W. 
Latitude, 23° 9' 24" N. 

Authority for longitude and latitude: Connaissance des Temps, 1884, p. 
Ixiii. 

Director : . 

Halifax, England. 

Bermerside Observatory, Skircoat. 

Longitude from Greenwich, 7"" 28^ W. 

Latitude, 53° 42' 9" :N^. ^ 

Authority for longitude and latitude: A. Lancaster, Liste Generale 

des Observatoires et Astronomes, 1887. 
Director: E. Crossley. 
Observer : J. Gledhill, 



436 ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATORIES. 

Hamburg, Germany. 
Sternwarte. 
Longitude from Greenwich, 39"' 53.8« E. 
Latitude, 53° 33' 7" K 

Directors : IMosER, 1823. 

K. L. 0. EUMKER, 1830. 
Georg r. W. EiJMKER, 18G3. 
Built by J. G. Kepsold, in 1810, upon a location near the Altona 
gate ; destroyed by the French in 1813 ; rebuilt in 1825, through a legacy 
left by Geell, upon the site of the old ramparts, and still in the neigh- 
borhood of the Altona gate. It has a central hall for meridian instru- 
ments and two wings surmounted by turrets. The east wing is used 
for a school of navigation. 

Harrow, England. 
Private Observatory. 
Longitude from GreeuAvich, 1*" 20^ W. 
Latitude, 51° 35' 15" N. 
Authority for longitude and latitude : A. LANCASTER, Liste G6n6rale 

des Observatoires et Astronomes, 1887. 
Froprietor : Lieut. Col. G. L. Tupman. 

Heidelberg, Germany. 
Sternivarte des Herrn Dr. T. Wolf. 

Longitude from Greenwich, . 

Latitude, • 

Authority for longitude and latitude A. : Lancaster, Liste G6n6rale 

des Observatoires et Astronomes, 1887. 
Director : Dr. T. Wolf. 

Helsingfors, Finland. 
Astronomisica Observatoriet. 
Longitude from Greenwich, V' 39"' 49.148 E. 
Latitude, 00° 9' 2.G" N. 
Directors : F. W. A. Argelander, 1829. 
G. LUNDAHL, 1841. 
F. Woldstedt, 1852. 
A. KriJGER, 1852. 
Dr. A. S. DONNER. 
Founded in 1829, near the university, after the fire at Abo had de- 
stroyed the scientific instruments of that Finnish town. This observa- 
tory is the most northerly in the world. 

Hereny, Hungary. 

Astro Fh ys ila I isches Obscrvatorium. 
Longitude from Greenwich, 1'' G"' 24.7^ E. 
Latitude, 47° 15' 47" N. 



ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATORIES. 437 

Autliority for longitude aud latitude: A. Lancaster, Liste Geuerale 

des Observatoires ct Astrouomes, 1887. 
Proprietor: E. DE Gotiiard. 

Established in 1881. 

noNa-KoNG, China. 
Observatory. 

Longitude from Greenwicli, 7*' 3G"' 41. 8G'^ E. 

Latitude, 22° 18' 12.2" N. 

Authority for longitude and latitude: A. LANCASTER, Liste Geuerale 

des Observatoires et Astrouomes, 1887. 
Director: W. Doberck, Astronomer Koyal. 

Innsbruck, Austria. 

Physikalischcs Institut der K. K. Leopold Franzcns Univcrsitat. 

Longitude from Greenwicli, 45"" 3G^ E. ^approximately). 
Latitude, 47° 16' 10" IS", (approximately). 
Director : Prof. Leopold Pfaundler. 

Ipswich, England. 
Orwell FarJc Observatory. 
Longitude from Greenwich, 4'" 55.8^ E. 
Latitude, 52© 0' 33" N. 
Authority for longitude and latitude : A. Lancaster, Listo Geuerale 

des Observatoires et Astrouomes, 1887. 
Proprietor : Colonel Tomline. 
Astronomer : J. T. Plummer. 

Jena, Saxe-Weimar. 
kSternivarte. 
Lougitude from Greenwich, 40"' 17^ E. 
Latitude, 50° 5G' 29" N. 
Authority for longitude and latitude: A. Lancaster, Liste Geuerale 

des Observatoires et Astrouomes, 1887. 
Directors: J. F. Posselt, 1820. 

L. SciiRON, 1852. ' 

Fj. Abbe, 1878. 
Built in 1820, in the same garden where Schiller wrote Wallenstein. 

JuvisY, France. 
Private Observatory. 

Longitude from Greenwich, 9'" 29^ E. 

Latitude, 48° 41' 36" N. 

Authority for longitude and latitude, A. LANCASTER, Liste Generale 

des Observatoires et Astronomes, 1887. 
Proprietor: C. Flammarion. 



438 ASTRONOMICAL OBSEEVATORIES. 

Kalocsa, Hungary. 

Erzhiscliof RaynaWs Obscrvatorium. 

Longitude from Greenwich, T' 15'" 5J:.28^ E. 

Latitude, 4Go 31' 41.25" N. 

Authority for longitude and latitude : A. Lancaster, Liste Generale 

des Observatoires et Astronomes, 1887. 
Directors : Dr. Charles Braun, S. J. 

A. HtJNINGER. 

The observatory was founded by Cardinal Haynald, Archbishop 
of Kalocsa, in 1878-'79. 

Karlsruhe, Baden. 

Grossherzogliclie Sternwarte. 

Longitude from Greenwich, 33"' 22« E. 

Latitude, 48° 59' 44" K 

Authority for longitude and latitude : Counaissance des Temps, 1884, j). 

XX vi. 
Director : W. Valentiner. 

Transferred from Mannhehi in 1879. 

Kasan, Russia. 

Observatoria. 

Longitude from Greenwich, 3'' 10"' 29.1^ E. 
Latitude, 55o 47' 24" N. 
Directors: J. J. Litrow, 1814. 

J. SiMONOFF, 181G. 

M. LlAPOUNOFF, 1840. 

M. KowALSKi, 1854. 

D. DOUBJAGO. 

Founded in 1814 by the university. Constructed upon a very solid 
ancient structure; square tower, 23 feet (7 meters) in height. The 
southern gallery adjoins a wooden shed at its west angle, which has a 
movable roof. The building, with a j)ortion of the instruments, was 
burned on the occasion of a fire which destroyed part of the town on 
the 5tli September, 1842. Immediately restored. 

Kempshot, Jamaica. 

Observatory of Max. w. Hall. 

Longitude from Greenwich, 5'' 11™ W. 

Latitude, 18° 29' ^^. 

Authority, A. Lancaster, Liste Generale, etc., 1887. 

Director : . 



astronomical obseevatories. 439 

Kensington, England. 

Observatory. 
Longitude from Greenwich, 4G« W. 
Latitude, 5 lo 30' 12" N. 

Autliority for longitudt^ and latitude: Connaissauce des Temx)S, 1884 
p. XV. 

KlIARKOFF, HUSSTA. 

Observatoria. 
Longitude from Greenwich, 2'' 21'" 51.7^ E. 
Latitude, 50° 0' 10.2" N. 
Directors : J. Fedorenko. 
G. Levitzky. 
Recently established. 

Kiel, Trussia. 

I. Kon'ujliche Sternwarte. 
Longitude from Greenwich, 40™ 35.71'' E. 
Latitude, 51° 20' 28.0" N. 
Directors : C. A. F. Peters, 1873. 
A. Krueger, 1881. 
Founded in 1873, by the transfer of the observatory from Altona. 

IT. Chronometer Observatorium der K. Marine. 
Longitude from Greenwich, 40'» 37.2« E. 
Latitude, 51° 20' 3.3" N. 
Authority for longitude and latitude : A. LANCASTER Liste Generale 

des Observatoires et Astrouomes, 1887 
Director: C. F. W. Peters. 

KlEFF, EussiA. 
Observatoria. 
Longitude from Greenwich, 2'' 2"' 0.7'^ E. 
Latitude, 50° 27' 11.12" X. 

Directors: Feadorow, 1838. 

A. Schidloffsky, 1855. 
M. K. KllANDRIKOFF, 1872. 
Established in 1838 as an annex to the university. 

Kingston, Canada. 
Observatory. 
Longitude from Greenwich. 5'' 5'" 50.4^ W. 
Latitude, 44° 13' 25.2" N. 
Authority for longitude and latitude : A. Lancaster, Liste Generale 

des Observatoires ct Astrouomes, 1887. 
Director: J. WILLIAMSON. 



440 astronomical observatories. 

Kis-Kaetal, Hungary. 
Stermvarte der Baronesse von Podmaniezky. 

Longitude from Greenwich, 1'^ 18"" 13^ E. 

Latitiule, 47° 42' N. 

Authoritj' for longitiule aud latitude : A. Lancaster, Liste Generale 

des Observatoires et Astronomes, 1887. 
Director: 11. von. Kovesligethy. 

Kilmarnock, Scotland. 

Observatory. 

Longitude from Greenwich, 18™ 10.5" W. 
Latitude, 55° 30' 40" K 
Directors : Thomas Morton, 1818. 
TH03IAS Lee, 18G2. 
Erected in 1818 bj- the late Mr. Morton, H. M. E. S. S. A., at an 
expense of about £1,500, and is now the property of Thomas Lee, F. 
E. A. S. Its height is 70 feet, and being at an elevated situation, it 
commands an extensive and delightful view. 

Klausenburg, Hungary. 

Sternwarte. 

Longitude from Greenwich, . 

Latitude, . 

Director : Carl Juszta. 

Kjobenhavn (Copenhagen), Denmark. 

i Universitets AstrononiisTce Ohservatorium. 

Longitude from Greenwich, 50'" 19.2« E. 
Latitude, 55° 41' 13.G" K 
Directors: C. Lumborg, 1G37. 

T. Bartholin. 1G47 

O. Eoemer, 1G81. 

Peter I. Horeebow, 1714. 

C. HORREBOW, 1753. 

T. BuGGE. 1777. 

H. 0. Schumacher, 1815. 

Von Caroe, 1822. 

C. F. E. Olufsen, 1832. 

IT. d' Arrest, 1850. 

T. N. Thiele, 187G. 
Founded in 1G37, but only completed in 1G5G. The first edifice was 
destroyed by fire on the 20th of October, 1728. The observatory was 



ASTRONOMICAL Or.SERVATORIES. 441 

re-cstablislied iu tbe round tower belonging to the university. In 1820 
a wooden addition was made to it on the Holken bastei. Finally, iu 
1857, it was reorganized and removed to the glacis of the fortress be- 
tween the citadel and the Osterthor (eastern gate). 

KuLN, Prussia. 

Sfernwarte. 

Longitude from Greenwich, 27™ 5P E. 

Latitude, 50° 55' 31" :^T. 

Authority tor longitude and latitude: A. LANCASTER, Listc Generale 

des Observatoires et Astronomes, 1887. 
Director : Dr. Hermann Klein. 

KONIGSBERG, PRUSSIA. 
Universitats Stcrmcarte. 

Longitude from Greenwich, P' 21™ D8.9P E. 
Latitude, 54° 12' 50.G" N. 
Directors : Z. W. Bessels, 1811. 

A. L. Buscii, 1819. 

M. L. G. WiCHMANN 18GG. 

E. Luther, 1880. 
Constructed in 1811 on one of the most elevated points of the ram- 
l)arts to the northwest of the town. A main building divided into two 
great halls — a northern and a southern. Two wings — one the meridian 
hall, the other an addition. With the nse of a meridian circle Bessels 
and his assistants accomplished the work known as the " Konigsberger 
Zonen.'' This great undertaking was begun August 19, 1821, and fin- 
ished January 21, 1833. 

Krakau, Austria. 

K. K. Vniversitats iStcriucarte. 

Longitude from Greenwich, 1^' 19'" 50.5^ E. 

Latitude, 50° 3' 50" N. 

Directors : Dr. J. B. Sniadecki, 1791-1803. 

Dr. J. I. LiTTROW, 1807-1809. 

Dr. J. Leski, 1811-1825. 

Dr. Max Weisse, 1820-1861. 
. Dr. F. M. Karlinski, 1862. 
The observatory, established in 1791 and partially reconstructed in 
1858, lies in the botanical garden at the eastern extremity of the city. 
The building, two and one-half stories high, with two domes, was origi- 
nally not intended for an observatory, and it is impossible to mount in 
them any larger modern instrument. 



442 astronomical obseevatories. 

Kremsmunster, Austria. 

Sternwarte der Benediktiner Ahtei. 

Longitade from Greenwicli, 5G'" 31. G^ E. 
Latitude, 48° 3' 23.8" K 
Directors : A. Desing, 1748. 

P. FiXLMILLNER, 17G1. 

T. Derfflinger, 1791. 

P>. Schwarzenbrunner, 1824. 

M. Roller, 1830. 

A. Reslhuber, 1847. 

G. Strasser, 1875, 

C. Wagner. 
Founded in tbe convent of the Benedictines in 1748; built in the 
convent garden at the northern extremity of the buihlings. The ob- 
servatory consivsts of a massive tower eight stories higb, with two wings 
of five stories. 

Kronstadt, Russia. 

Morsliaia Astronomicheslcaia Obscrvatoria. 

Longitude from Greenwich, V' SO'" 3.G0' E. 
Latitude, 59° 59' 24.2". 

Authority for longitude and latitude: V. Fuss. 
Directors : L. IIubner, 1857. 
Y. Fuss, 1871. 
Observatory of the school of pilots. 

La Plata, Argentine Republic. 

Observatory. 

Longitude from Greenwich, — . 

Latitude, . 

Director: F. C. Beuf. 

Leipzig, Saxony. 

I. Universitats Stcrmcarte. 

Longitude from Greenwich, 49'" 34.02« E. 
Latitude, 51° 20' G.3" N. 
Directors: C. F. RDdiger, 1794. 

K. B. MOLLWEIDE, 1811. 

A. F. MoEBius, 181C. 

O. A. Jahn, 1845. 

C. O. Bruhns, 18G0. 

H. Bruns, 1883. 



ASTR0N0M7.CAL OBSERVATORIES. 443 

Constructed from 1787 to 171)4, upon the great tower of the castle of 
Pleisseubiirg. A new observatory, situated at the extreme end of oue 
of the suburbs, took the place of the old one in 1861. 

II. Private Sfernwarfc des Ilerrn Budoljyh Eagelmann. 

Longitude from Greenwicli, 49'" 38« E. 

Latitude, 51° 20' 7" K 

Authority for longitude and latitude: A. Lancaster, Liste G6n6rale 

des Observatoires et Astronomes, 1887. 
Director: Dr. liUDOLF Engelmann. 

Lemberg, Austria. 
Stcrnwarte der Technischcn Hochschule. 

Longitude from Greenwich, . 

Latitude, . 

Director: — . 

The observatory is used for geodetic purposes. 

Leyden, IIolland. 

ByA-.s' Ohservatorium. 

Longitude from Greenwich, 17'" 50.35* E. 
Latitude, 52° 9' 20.2" N. 
Directors : J. Golius, 1G32. 

S. 0. Kechel, 1GG7. 

C. Melder, 1GG8. 

B. DE VOLDER, 1G82. 

L. ZUMBACn DE KOESFELD, 1705. 

W. J. S'Gravesande, 1717. 

J. LtTLOFS, 1742. 

D. Van de Wunrresse, 1708. 

r. NiEUWLAND, 1794. 

J. A. Fas, 1797. 

J. F. Van Beek-Calkoen, 1799. 

C. E. Kama, 1812. 
F. Kaiser, 1837. 

H. G. Van de Sande Bakhuijzen, 1872. 

Founded in 1032. The most ancient of existing observatories in 
Europe. Originally built as a great tower for the town clock; enlarged 
in 1089 ; repaired in 1817. In 1858 a new observatory was commenced, 
and completed in 1800. 



444 ASTEONOMICAL OBSERVATORIES. 

Leyton, England. 

Barclay Observatory. {Private.) 

Longitude, 0.87« W. 
LatitiKle, 51° 34' 34" N". 

Authority for longitude and latitude : Ordnance survey. 
Froprictor: J. GUKNEY BARCLAY. 
Observer: Charles George Talmage, F. R. A. S. 
Instruments : 

(a) Meridian circles: Makers, HouGnTON and Simms; diameter of 
circles, 30 inches, divided to 5'; read by 4 microscopes toO.]/'; aper- 
ture of objective, 4 inches ; for observations of the sun aperture em- 
ployed, 4 inches ; magnifying power ordinarily employed, 80 diameters. 

(c) Equatorial instrument : Maker, Cooke, York; aperture of object- 
ive, 10 inches ; magnifying power of eye-pieces, 70 to 1200. 

(g) Clock : Sidereal ; maker, Simmonds, London. 

Liege, Belgiu3i. 

Institut Astronomique de V Universite. 

Longitude from Greenwich, 22"' 12*^ E. 

Latitude, 50^ 37' O.G" N. 

Authority for longitude and latitude : A. LANCASTER, Liste Gen^rale 

des Observatoires et Astronomes, 1887. 
Director: F. Folie. 

Lisbon, Portugal. 

I. Real Observatorio Astronomico de Lisbon {Ajuda). 

Longitude from Greenvnch, 30'" 44.68" W. 
Latitude, 38° 42' 31.3" N. 
Director : F. A. Oom, 1878. 

The Koyal Observatory is situated in the Ajuda Park (Tapada da 
Ajuda), about 1,300 meters west of Lisbon. It had its origin in 1857, 
when the late King, D. Pedro V, made a first donation of 30,000 mil- 
reis for the establishment of an astronomical observatory. 

The building was commenced in 1801. It consists of a central two- 
story octagonal structure, surmounted by a revolving tower 11 meters 
in diameter, containing the great equatorial, with four one-story wings, 
corresponding to the cardinal points of the compass. In the southern 
wing is the principal entrance, with a peristyle and vestibule which com- 
municates with the lower and upper stories of the central structure. 

The whole length of the building is 07.1 meters E — W. Its breadth 
is 42 meters. 

A three-story dwelling-house for the persDunel is built 30.5 meters 
east of the observ^atory. A part of its ground floor is occupied by a 
mechanical workshop for repairs and modifications in the instruments 



ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATORIES. 445 

The organization of the observatory dates from May, 1878. Accord- 
ing to its statute the observatory is chietly destined to the progress of 
sidereal astronomy. 

If. Ohscyvatorio da Marinha. 

Longitude from Greenwich, oG'" 33. 5** W, 
Latitude, 38° 42' 11. iV N. 
Directors ; M. E. S. Limpe. 

A. CONTO Valente. 

J. CORDEIKO FeUO. 
F. FOLQITE. 

F, DE Paula Ferreira de Mesqitita, 1874. 
Established in 1798. Eenewed in 1859 and 1874. 

III. Obscrvatorio Aslronomico na Escola Polytecmca. 

Longitude, . 

Latitude, . 

Director: . 



For the instruction of students 0UI3'. 

Liverpool, England. 

Observatory. 

Longitude from Greenwich, 12™ 17.2" W. 
Latitude, 53° 24' 3.8" N. 
Director: J. Hartnup, 1845. 

Founded in 1838 by the municipal council; completed in 1848. Trans- 
ferred to Birkenhead, on the opposite bank of the Mersey, in 1867. 
It is provided with an a])paratus for the examination of chronometers 
where the temperature can be raised by means of a gas heater. The 
equatorial is moved by clock-work, set in motion by hydraulic power. 
The time-signal is given to the shipping by the firing of a cannon. 

London, England. 

Tulse Mill Observatory {Upper Tulse Rill, London, S. W.). 

Longitude from Greenwich, 27. 7^ W. 
Latitude, 31° 20' 47" N. 
Director : William Huggins. 

Founded in 185G. 
Instruments: 

An equatorial instrument by Grubb, of Dublin, so constructed that 
either a refractor, of 15 inches aperture and 15 feet focal length, or a 
Cassegrain reflector with metallic speculum of 18 inches aperture may 
be placed at pleasure on the same equatorial mounting, so that with 



446 ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATORIES. 

either iostrumeut tUe circles read sufficiently for the finding of objects. 
The driving-clock has, in addition to the usual governor balls, a second- 
ary control of a pendulum in electrical connection with a standard 
cluck. 

Up to 1870, when the present equatorial was erected, a transit circle 
of 3.^ inches aperture was mounted in the observatory. At that time 
the principal instrument the observatory contained was an 8-inch re- 
fractor by Alvan Clark, mounted equatorially by Cooke, of York. 

There is a fine sidereal clock by Arnold, and various spectroscopes 
for use, with the telescopes, on the sun and stars; and there has been 
recently added a spectroscope, with Iceland spar prism and quartz 
lenses, for photography of spectra of stars. 

Underneath the observatory are two rooms, one devoted to chemistry 
and photography, the other to physical experiments in connection with 
spectruui analysis. 

LouvAiN, Belgium. 

I. Ohserraioirc dcs College de la Compagnie de Jesus. 

Longitude from Greenwich, 18™ 48^ E. 

Latitude, 50° 53' 21" N. 

Authority for longitude and latitude : A. Lancaster, Liste Generale 

des Observatoires et Astronomes, 1887. 
Director : J. TniRiON, S. J. 

II. Private Observatory of Dr. Terhy. 

Longitude from Gieenwich, 18" SP E. 

Latitude, 50° 52' 40" N. 

Authority for longitude and latitude: A. LANCASTER, Liste G6u6rale 

des Observatoires et Astronomes, 1887. 
Director: Dr. Terby. 

LtJBECK, Germany. 

Stcrnirarte. 
Longitude from Grcenwicli, 42'" 45.7* E. 
Latitude, 53° 51' 31.2" X. 
Director: Ed. Thiel. 

Founded in 1800 as an annex to the navigation school. The tower, 
with a revolving turret of 20 feet diameter, stands upon the ramparts 
to the south of the town 03 feet above the level of the Baltic. 

LucKNow, India. 
Observatory. 
Longitude from Greenwich, 5'' 23™ 24.02« E. 
•Latitude, 20° 51' 10" X. 

Authority for longitude and latitude: Annuaire des Bureau des Longi- 
tudes, 1884, p. 412. 



asteonoisiical observatories. 447 

Lund, Sweden. 
Lund Observatory. 

Longitude from Greenwicb, 52"^ 45.02^ E. 

Latitude, 55° 41' 52.05" N. 

Authority for longitude and latitude : U ndersokning af Meridiancirkeln 
pu Lunds Observatorium jemte bestamniing af den sammas 
I)olbojd af And. Lindstedt. Bestiuimungder Liiugen-Difier- 
enz ZvriscLen Berlin und Lund, auf telegrapbischein Wege aus- 
gefiibrt im Jabre 18G8. Elerausgegeben von C. BRunNS. 

Directors: . 



A. LindCtReen, 17SG. 

, 1815. 

J. M. Agardii, 1847. 

Axel Moller, professor of astronomy. 

Founded as a dependency of tbe University about 17G0. Reorgan- 
ized in 18G6. 

Instruments : 
(«) Meridian circle: One; makers, A. & G. Repsold, in Hamburg; 
diameter of circles, 39 inches (1 meter); divided to 2'; read by 4 micro- 
scopes to 0.1"; aperture of objective, G^ inches (IGo"""); magnifying 
power ordinarily employed, 173 diameters. 

(c) Equatorial instruments : Makers, G. & S. Merz, in Munich, and E. 
JtJNGER, in Copenhagen; aperture of objective, 9i inches (245"°'); mag- 
nifying i^owers of eyepieces, 80 to 1,300 diameters, (c') Makers, A. 
Steiniieil, in Munich, and E. Jijnger, in Copenhagen ; aperture of 
objective, 4^ inches (108""") ; magnifying powers of eyepieces, IG to 200 
diameters. 

(d) Universal s})cctroscope by G. & S. Merz, in Munich, with 3 sets of 
prisms a vision directe. (d) Simple spectroscope by Heustreu, in Kiel, 
constructed after the indication of Professor Yogel, in l^otsdam. 

(/) Chronograph: One by Mayer & Wolf, in Vienna. 

{g) Cloclis: Sidereal time; one, maker, Kessels, in Altona: one, 
maker, Tiede, in Berlin. 

(/() Chronometer: Meantime; maker, Kessels, in Altona. 

(?) One universal instrument by Repsold, in Hamburg; 3 telescopes 
by Dollond, Merz, and Plossl. 

Lyme Regis (Dorset), England. 

Observatory of C. E. Peelc. 
Longitude from Greenwich, 44"^ 50.02^ W. 
Latitude, 50° 42' 12" K. 
Authority for longitude and latitude : A. Lancaster, Liste Geuerale 

des Observatoires et Astrouomes, 1887, p. oo. 
Director : C. E. Peek. 



448 ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATORIES. 

LYONb, France. 

Astronomical and Meteorological Observatory. 

Longitude from Gieeuwicli, 19'" 18^ E. 
Latitiule, 47° 41' 14" K 
Director: C. Akdre, 1877. 

There was au observatory iu existence in the eighteenth century at 
the Jesuit CoUege, where Fathers Bonnet, Bi^rauld, Lefevre, and 
Lapon made observations. The new observatory was founded iu 1877. 
Instruments : 

(rt) Meridian circle : Maker, Eichens ; diameter of circles, 23| inches 
(()'". GO), divided to 5'; read by 4 microscopes to 0.1" ; aperture of object- 
ive, G inches; for observations of the sun, aperture employed, G inches; 
raapnifying power ordinarily employed, 300 diameters. 

(b) Meridian transit instrument : Maker, EiGAUT ; aperture, 2 inches ; 
magnifying power, 150 diameters. 

{(/) Clocks : Two sidereal ; makers, Breguet & Redier, Paris. 

(h) Chronometers : Mean time ; makers Breguet, Paris : sidereal ; 
maker, Breguet, Paris. 

Madras, India. 
Madras Observatory. 

Longitude from Greenwich, 5^' 20°^ 59.33« E. 
Latitude, 13° 4' 8.1" K 
Directors : J. Goldingiiam, 1787. 

Warren (intermediate), 1805. 

J, GOLDINGHAM, 1811. 

S. G. Taylor, 1830. 
W. S. JACOB, 1848. 

WoRSTER (intermediate), 1854. 

W. S. Jacob, 1855. 

J. F. Tennant, 18G0. 

N. Iv. PoGSON (Astronomer Royal), 18G0. 

Founded in 1787 by the East India Companj^ 

Madrid, Spain. 
Observatorio de Madrid. 
Longitude from Greenwich, 14'" 45.5^ W. 
Latitude, 40° 24' 29.7" N. 
Directors: J. Caronado, 1790. 

J. Rodriguez, 1817. 

Bavia, 1821. 

D. FoNTAN, 1835. 

Palo Maruz, 1850. 

A. Aguilar, 18G0. 

M. Merino. 



ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATORIES. 449 

Established at Bueu Eetiro in 1790. When the French occupied 
Madrid in 1S08, they set up a battery at that phice, and the instruments 
were destroyed l)y lire. The observatory then abandoned was not re- 
stored until 1840. In 1852 the grounds were enlarged, and a pavillion 
with a revolving turret was erected. 

Manila, Piiilippine Islands. 

Ohservatorio del Atenco Municipal. 

Longitude from Greenwich, 8'' 3'" 48.0^ E. 

Latitude, U^ 35' 25" N. 

Directors: P. Francisco Colina, 18G5-18G6. 

P. Federico Fanra, 18G0-1871. 

P. Jose Canudas, 1871-1873. 

P. Jose Minores, 1873-1877. 

P. Francisco Sanchez, 1877-1878. 

P Federico Fanra, 1878, 
The observatory was founded in 1805. In the year 1859 T. Vern ACAI 
])rojected an observatory in which he should be intrusted with the 
hydrographic commission for this archipelago. With this object in 
view instruments were purchased, but never mounted by the hydro- 
graphic commission, and remained in the observatory of the municipal 
Atheui3eum from 1805 to 1873. 

Mannheim, Baden. 

Grossherzogliche Sternwarie. 

Longitude from Greenwich, 35'" 50.52«E. 
Latitude, 15o 29' 11" N. 
Directors : 0. Marger, 1701. 

K. J. KoniCt, 1783. 

J. N. Fischer, 1780. 

P. Ungeschick, 1788. 

B. Barry, 1788. 

H. C. Schumacher, 1813. 

F. B. G. NicoLAi, . 

A. M. Nelle, 1852. 

E. SCHONFELD, 1859. 

W. Valentiner, 1875. 

First established in the electoral castle of Schwetzingen, G^ miles 
(10 kilometers) from Mannheim, and in 1772 removed to the west of 
the town where it was located in a tower 105 feet (32 meters) in diameter, 
with remarkably thick walls. 

Transferred to Karlsruhe in 1879. (See Karlsruhe.) 
H. Mis. 170 29 



450 astronomical observatories. 

Marburg, Germany. 

Stcrnwarte. 

Lougitude from Greeiiwicb, 35'" 5"* E. 
Latitude, 50° 48' 40.9" I^. 
Director : Dr. Melde. 

Maekree, County Sligo, Ireland. 

M a rh'ce Obser va to ry. 

Loiigltiide from Grecuwicli, 33'" 48.4" W. 
Latitude, 54° 10' 31.8" X. 
Directors : E. J. Cooper, 1832-1863. 
W. DOBERCK, 1875. 

Founded by E. 11. Cooper, M. r., and built ii] the park of Markree. 
Marseilles, France. 
Observatoire. 

Longitude from Greenwich, 21'" 34.64^ E. 
Latitude, 43° IS' 19.1" X. 
Directors: A. F. Laval, 1702. 

E. Perenas, 1728. 

G. Saint Jacques de Silvabelle, 17G4. 

J. J. C. Shulis, 1793. 

Blanpaint, 181L 

J. F. A. Gambart, 1822. 

B. Valz, 1835. 

B. Stephan, 1868. 

The Society of Jesus had an observatory at their College of Sainte 
Croix, founded 1702. In 1849 this scientific institution was taken in 
hand by the miuistery of marine. It is a three-story building, longest 
from east to west, erected on the summit of the Butte des Moulins. In 
1797 this observatory was repaired. A new establishment was erected 
ill 1869 on the hill of Longchamps, to supplement the work at the Paris 
observatory. The instruments are distributed in separate apartments, 

Melbourne, Victoria. 

Melbourne Observatory. 

Longitude from Greenwich, 9^ SO"* 54.8« E. 

Latitude, 37° 49' 53.4" S. 

Director: R. L. J. Ellery, F. E. S., F. R. A. S. 

Proposed first in 1853, and established, to begin with, at Williams 
town. Transferred to Melbourne in 1861. Building completed in 1863., 



ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATORIES. 451 

Mehan (Tyrol), Austria. 
A s fro- PliijH ika / iscli cs Observatur inm. 



Lougitiule from Gioc'ii\vi(;li, 

Latitude, — . 

Director : . 



Meudon (Paris), France. 

Obscrvatoirc (VAstronoiiiii: — I'lnjHUiuv. 

Longitude from Greeuwicli, S'" 55.G^ E 
Latitude, 48° 48' 18" N. 
Director : J. Janssen, 1 875. 

Instruments : 

A parallactic apparatus beariuii' two twin telescopes to be used con- 
joiutly ; 1, a photographic telescope of 81 centimeters aperture and 10 
or 17 meters focal length, for astronomy and spectroscopy; L*, a- i)hoto 
graphic telescope of the same focus and 02 centimeters aperture. 

A 5-inch photographic telescope (images 30 centimeters). 

A reflector, 1 meter in diameter and 3 meters focal length. 

A series of various instruments for the study of absorption of gases 
and vapors, scales, etc. 

Mexico, Mexico. 

Obscrvatorio. 

Longitude from Greenwich, j'^ 30"' 20.07^ W. 
Latitude, 19° 20' 1.3" N. 
Director : F. Jimenez. 
M. Barcena. 
Founded in 1877. 

Milan, Italy. 

B. Osservatorio Astronomico di Brcra. 

Longitude from Greenwich, 30'" 45.97^ E. 
Latitude, 45° 27' 59.4" N. 
Directors: L. LagranGtE, 1703. 

F. liEGGio, 1777. 

B. Oriani, 1804. 

F. Carlini, 1833. 

G. V. ScniAPARELLI, 1802. 

The observatory was founded in 1703. [n the beginning it consisted 
of an octagonal structure to which, in 1775, two side towers were added. 

In 1700 a telescope of 33 feet (10 meters) focal distance was mounted 
in the College of the Brera by P. Bovio and D. Gerra. 



452 ASTEONOMICAL OBSERVATORIES. 

MoDENA, Italy. 

Osscrvatorio. 

Longitude from Greeuwicb. 43"' 42.9^ E. 
Latitude, 44° 38' 52.8" N. 
Director: D. Eagona. 

MoNCALiEKi, Italy. 

Osscrvatorio del li. Collegio Carlo Alberto. 

Longitude from Greeuwicb, 0^' SO-" 44.0^ E. 

Latitude, 44° 59' 58.0" N. 

Authority for longitude and latitude : K. lustitue — military topographer. 

Director: P. Francesco Denza, 1859. 

Montreal, Canada. 

McGill College Observatory. 

Longitude from Greenwich, 4'' 54'" 18.54*^ W. 
Latitude, 45o 31' Is^. 
Director: C. McLeod. 

Montsoueis (Paris), France. 

Observatoire du Bureau dcs Longitudes. 

Longitude from Greenwicli, 9™ 20.G8» E. 
Latitude, 48° 49' 18" N. 
Directors : E. MoutJHEZ, 1875. 
Dr. Marie Davy. 
Founded in 1875 by the department of marine, in the southwest corner 
of the park of Montsouris at the southern extremity of Paris. 

Moscow, Eussia. 

Observatory of the Imperial University. 

Longitude from Greenwich, 21^ 30'" 10.9« E. 

Latitude, 55° 45' 19.8" N. 

Authority for longitude and latitude, Nautical Almanac. 

Directors : M. Pankevich, 17 — . 

C. F. GOLDBACH, 1804. 

M. Pankevich, 1811. 
M. TscnouMAKOFF, 1814, 

D. Perevostschikoff, 1823. 
A. Draschoitssoff, 1847. 
K. G. Schweitzer, 185G. 

Prof. Dr. Theodore Bredichin, 1876. 



ASTRONOMICAL ()];8EKVAT0iiIES. 453 

Instruments : 

(a) Meridian circle: Oue; makor, Repsold, in Ilamburg; diameter 
of circle, 30 iiicbes ; divided to 2' ; read by 4 microscopes to 0.1" ; aper- 
ture of objective, 5.3 inches ; niagnif^'ing power ordinarily employed, 
100 diameters. 

[c) Equatorial instrument : Maker, Merz, in Miniicb; aperture of ob- 
jective, 10.7 inches ; magnifyini;- i)o\ver of eye-pieces, 100 to 1,200. (c') 
Photoheliograph of Dalmayer, in London. 

{d) Universal spectroscope of Merz, in Munich; direct vision with 
10 prisms and micrometer. 

(e) One photometer of Zollner. 

(/) Chronograpli : of Siemens and Halske. 

{g) Clocks: Mean time, two; makers, Tiede, Utzschneider ; sidereal, 
two; makes, Kessels, Tolstoi. 

{h) Chronometers: Mean time, two; maker, Dent; sidereal, two; 
makers. Dent, Kessels. 

(i) Miscellaneous: Transportable transit instruments, theodolites, uni- 
versal instruments, etc. 

MtJNcnEN, Bavaria. 

Kdniglichc Stcrnwarfc, Bogenhausen. 

Longitude from Greenwich, 4G'" 20.13^ E. 

Latitude, 48o 8' 45.5" K 

Directors: K. F. von Seyffer, 1809. 

J. VON SOLDNER, 1810-1833. 

Prof. Dr. J. VON La^iont, 1833-1879. 

Dr. Seidel (provisory). 

Prof. Dr. 11. Seeliger, October, 1882. 
Founded in 1809, on the hill of Bogenhausen, near Munich ; a main 
building of one story, facing east and west; two wings extend toward 
the north. An edifice designed for the purpose was luit up in the gar- 
den for a great refractor, by the aid of which Lamont made his obser- 
vations of the satellites of Saturn and of the nebulre. 

Munich, Bavaria. (See Munciien.) 
MuNSTER, Prussia. 

Stcrmcarte. 

Longitude from Greenwich, 30'" 3P E. 

Latitude, 51^- 58' 10" N. 

Authority for longitude and latitude: Oonuaissance des Temps, 1884, 

p. xxvii. 
Directors: E. Heis, 1852-1877. 
Professor Sturm. 
Founded in 1852, in the neighborhood of the academy (high school). 



454 ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATORIES. 

Naples, Italy. (See Napoli.) 

Natal, South Africa. 

Natal Observatory. 

Longitude from Greenwich, . 

Latitude, . 

Director: . 

Napoli, Italy. 

B. Osservatorio, Capo di Monte. 

Longitude from Greenwich, 57"' 0,9** E. 
Latitude, 40o 51' 45.4" N. 
Directors: G. Casella, 1791. 

F. M. Da Prado, 1808. 

F. ZUCCARI, 1812. 

C. Brioschi, 1818. 

E. Capocci, 1833. 

Leopoldo Del Ee, 1849. 

Capocci, 18G0. 

A. DE Gasparis, 18G4. 
Proposed in 1788. The buiUlings begun at the northeast corner of 
the PaLaco of the Library (PaLnzzo della Piblioteca) and lloyal Museum 
(Museo Eeale) were left incomplete in 1790. In 1809 one of the towers 
of the okl convent of San Gaudioso was appropriated to this object. 
In 1812 was hiid the first stone of a new observatory on tlie liill of 
Miradois, at the point called Capo di Monte. The instruments were 
mounted in 1819. Nine asteroids have been discovered at this observa- 
tory. 

Neuciiatel, Switzerland. 

Observatoire Cantonal. 

Longitude from Greenwicli, 27'" 50.2^ N. 
Latitude, 40° 59' 51" N. 
Director: A. lliRSCii, 1858. 

Founded in 1857. A rectangular structure of 88i feet by 20;^ feet 
(27 by 8 meters) and 19A feet (G meters) in lieight; a tower with a re- 
volving turret. 

Nice, France. 

Observatoire. 

Longitude from Greenwich, 29'" 12.o\ E. 

Latitude, 43° 43' 1G.9" N. 

Authority for longitude and latitude: A. Lancaster, Liste G6u6rale 

des Observatoires et Astronomes, 1887. 
Director : J. Perrotin. 

This observatory was erected at the expense of BiscnoFSHEiM. 



ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATORIES. 455 

NiCOLAEV, liUSSIA. 
NicoIaevsJcaia Obscrvatona. 

Lougitiulc from Greenwich, 2'' 7'" 54^.1'^ E. 
Latitude, 40° 58' 20.G" N. 

Autliority for lougitiule: Telegrapliic determination of 1877; for lati- 
tude, K. Knorre, Astron. Nach. vii, p. 2GI. 
Directors: K. F. Knorre, 1821. 
J. KoRTAZzr, 18 — . 

Founded in 1821 ; completed in 182G. 
Instruments : 

{a) Meridian circle : Maker, Ertel, in Munich ; diameter of circle, 38 
inches; divided to 3'; read by four microscopes to 1"; aperture of ob- 
jective, 4.2 inches; magnifying power ordinarily employed, 100 diame- 
ters. 

(c) Equatorial instrument : Makers, liErsoLD & Sons, in Ilamburg; 
aperture of objective, 9i inches; magnifying powers of eye-pieces, 100, 
150, 330, 470, GGO. 

(/) Chronograph : One of IIerest, in Pulkowa. 

(r/) ClocTcs : One mean time; maker, Kessels, No. 1282 ; one sidereal; 
makers, Barraud, No. 7G9, and IIoiivin, No. 24. 

(h) Chronometers : Mean lime, 89, of different makers; sidereal, 3, of 
different makers. 

(/) Miscellaneoiis : One transportable transit instrument of IIerbst, 
in Pulkowa, for the determination of time in the vertical of Polaris; 
aperture 2.7 inches ; magnifying powoi', 100. 

(/v) One transportable vertical circle, 11 inches; aperture, 1.9 inches; 
circle divitled to 4' ; read by two inicroscopes to 2". 

Nottingham, England. 

Private Observatory. 

Longitude from Greenwich, G"' 0« W. 

Latitude, 52° 58' 24". 

Director: Thomas W. Push, F. R. A. S. 

The observatory is a provisional structure of wood, built in 1S7G, and 
comprising equatorial room of 12 feet diameter and small transit annex. 

Odessa, Russia. 
I. Stcrmvarte. 

Longitude from Greenwich, 2'' 3"^ 2.5« E. 

Latitude, 4Go 28' 3C" N. 

Authority for longitude: E.Becker and E. Block, telegraphic de- 
termination of the longitude between Berlin andOdessain 187G; 
for latitude: observations with the meridian circle. 

Bireciors: L. Berkewitscii, 1871 ; 1881. 
E. Block, 1873. 



456 ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATORIES. 

II. Sternwarte des Herrn L. Hildeshcimer. 

Longitude from Greenwich, . 

Latitude, . 

Director : L. Hildesheimer. 

Ofen, Austria- Hungary. {See Budapest.) 

O-Gyalla, Hungary. 

Astro-physikalisclies Observatorium. 

Longitude from Greenwich, 1'' 12'" 45.59^ E. 
Latitude, 47° 52' 43.4" N. 
Birectot : Dr. N. de Konkoly. 

OLMtJTz, Austria. 

Stermcarte. 

The observatory at Olmiitz was owned by the Bitter von TJn- 
kreciitsberg, with Dr. J. Schmidt (later at Athens) as director. 
With the owner's death, in 18G9, the observatory was discontinued. 

Oxford, England. 

I. RadcUffc Observatory. 

Longitude from Greenwich, 5'" 2.G^ W. 
Latitude, 51° 45' 35" N. 
Directors: T. Hornsby, 1771. 

A. liOBERTSON, 1810. 

S. P. RiGAUD, 1827. 

M. J. Johnson, 1830. 

R. Main, ISGO. 

E. J. Stone, 1878. 
Founded in 1772 by the trustees of Dr. .Iohn Radcliffe, on ground 
donated by the Duke of Marlborough. A large tower containing 
library, etc., and two wings, east and west, for meridian instruments, 
computing-rooms, etc. Detached buildings for equatorial instruments. 
Dwelling-house for the director. 

II. Oxford TJnivtrsity Observatory {tSavilian Observatory). 

Longitude from Greenwich, 5'" 0.4^ W. 
Latitude, 51° 45' 34.2" N. 
Director: C. Pritciiard. 
Founded in 1873. 



ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATORIES. 457 

Padova, Italy. 

Osscrvatorio Astronomico delV Universitd. 

Lougitiide from Greenwich, 47'" 29.13^ E, 
Latitude, 45° 24' 2.5" JS". 
Directors: G. To Ai.'DO,n(il. 

V. CniMiNELLO, 1797. 

G. Santini, 1813. 

G. LOEENZONI, 1877. 
Founded in 17G1 by the Venetian senate, and accommodated in a 
massive tower built in the thirteenth century by the tyrant Ezzeliuo 
for a state prisou. 

Padua, Italy. {See Padova.) 

Paisley, Scotland. 
Observatory of T. Coats. 

Longitude from Greenwich, 17'" 43.3^ W. 

Latitude, 55° 50' 43.8" N. 

Authority for lougitude and hititude: A. Lancaster, Liste Generale 

des Observatoires et Astronomes, 1887. 
Observer, D. Maclean. 

Palermo, Italy. 
E. Osservatorio. 

Longitude from Greenwicli, 53'" 25" E. 

Latitude, 38° 0' 44" N. 

Authority for longitude and latitude: PiAZZi Daussy, 1835, p. 21. In 

Connaissance des Temps, 1884, p. xxxiv. 
Directors : G. PiAzzi, 1787. 

]Sr. Cacciatore, 1817. 

G. Cacciatore, 1842. 

D. Ragona, 1858. 

G. Cacciatore, ISGO, 
Proposed in 178G. Established in the Saint Ninfa tower of the 
Koyal Palace, the ancient residence of the Emirs during the Arabian 
dominion. The first complete vertical circle made by Ramsden, and 
finished in 1789, was mounted in this observator3^ Piazzt used it from 
1792 to 1813 for the observations which served him as a basis for his 
fiimous catalogue. Ceres was discovered at Palermo on the first day 
of the nineteeth century. 

Paramatta, New South Wales, Australia. 

Private Observatory. 

Longitude from Greenwich, 10'' 4'" 0.2^ E. 
Latitude, 33° 48' 49.8" W. 

Established by Brisbane. Its instruments went to the Government 
Observatory at Sydney, New South Wales. 



458 ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATORIES. 

Paris, France. 

I. Ohscrvatoirc Nationale. 

Longitude from Greenwich, 9"' 21.02* E. 
Latitude, 48° 50' 11.8" N. 
Dircctorfi : J. T). Cassini, 1071. 
J. Cassini, 1712. 

C. F. Cassini (de Tliury), 175G. 
J. D. Cassini (de Thury), 1784. 
J. J. L. De La Lande, 1795. 
P. Mechain, 1801. 

A. Brunard, 1804, 

D. F. J. Arago, 1811. 

U. J. J. Le Verrier, 1853. 

C. E. Delaunay, 1871. 

U. J. J. Le Verrier, 1872, 

E. Mouchez, 1878. 

National Observatory (formerly royal, since imperial), built in 1667, 
under the auspices of the Academy of Sciences, according to plans of 
C, Perrault. a vast ceutral hall ; two towers, east aud west. In 1732 
a small room to accommodate a mural quadrant was added beyond the 
eastern tower, and in 1742 this was extended by a second inclosure 
for a movable quadrant. In 1700 a turret, with a revolving roof, was 
built to the south of this addition. The main building, having become 
dilapidated, was restored in 1780, completed 1793; since when it has 
been detached aud the south terrace built. In 1832 the small rooms 
where observations are taken were re])aired, and the amphitheater and 
a rotunda with a revolving roof built upon the principal terrace. The 
dome intended for the shelter of the great equatorial was placed on the 
summit of the building in 1850. The great telescope, with a mirror of 
silvered glass, 4 feet (1.2™) in diameter, Avas mounted in 1870, in a build- 
ing on the ground -floor level. John Dominic Cassini discovered four 
of the satellites of Satuni at the Paris observatory, and also first inves- 
tigated the subject of the zodiacal light, and here, too, the great grand- 
son of this astronomer was the first to follow the variations of the 
magnetic needle with minute and persevering industry ; and it was here 
that Arago aud Mathieu demonstrated the extremely small parallax 
of the stars. 

A large number of astronomical manuscripts, containing matter of 
great interest, arc preserved at the Paris observatory, 

II. Observatoire du Bureau des Longitudes. 

(See MoNTSOURis.) 



ASTRONOMICAL 01>.SERVATORIES. 459 

Parma, Italy. 
B. Osservatorio Astronomko. 

Longitude from Greenwich, 41'" 20« E. 
Latitude, 440 48' 15" I^. 

Director : • 

Paksonstown, Ireland. (See Birr Castle.) 

Pekin, China. 
Observatory. 

Longitude from Greenwicb, 7'' 45"> 37.02« K. 
Latitude, 39° 54' 13" N. 

Authority for longitude and hititude: Annuaire r>ureau des Longitudes, 
I\aris, 1884, p. 414. 

Pesaro, Italy. 

Ohscrratory. 

Longitude from Greenwich, 51'" 3S« E. 
Latitude, 43^ 55' 27" N 
Directors : LuiGl GuiDl. 

Pig Calvori, 1883. 

Prof. LuiGi GuiDi, who was the founder of this observatory, who 
for many years very ably tilled the place of its director, and to a great 
extent maintained it at his own expense, died on the Gtli March, 1883. 

The municipality of Pesaro, which already owned the property and 
a considerable portion of the scientific apparatus, by an agreement 
with Mr. Gerolamo Guidi, the son of the deceased Professor Guidi, 
took possession of the observatory and temporarily appointed Sr. 

Calvori as director. 

I 
Instruments. 

(rt) Astronomical division : 

(1) A small equatorial by Merz, with an opening of 12 centimeters, 
very simply mounted, for cosmographic observations, with a Mcrz helio- 
scope with three reflectors and a LIofmann spectroscope. 

(2) A perfectly good transit instrument in an adjoining room, with a 
meridian opening, firmly imbedded in Istrian rock. 

(3) Two chronometers, one a marine chronometer (English), and the 
other with a pendulum (IIiPP). 

{h) Meteorological division : 

(1) Barometers for direct observations. 

(2) A meteorological case with termographs, psychrometer, hygrom- 
eter, evaporometer for direct observation. 

(3) Registering apparatus for various meteorological data, barometric 
pressure, temperature, hygrometric state of the air, velocity and direc- 



460 ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATORIES. 

tion of the wind aud rain. These apparatus, some mechanical and a 
few electric, are in duplicate, so that there may be no interruption of 
the observations if one of them should be out of order. The Secchi 
meteorograph is complete. 

(4) neliophotometer(CRAVERi),nefoscope (Braun), termoheliometer 
(Mary Devy), pyroheliometer (Puillet), pliotometor, cyauometer 
Arago polarimeter, for direct atmospheric observations, 
(c) Magnetic division : 

(1) Declinometer, inclinometer, inclination balance for observing the 
variations in the intensity and direction of terrestrial magnetism. These 
apparatus are constructed according to the method of Gauss. 

(2) Inclination compass and magnetic theodolite (Brunner) for mak- 
ing exaict observations of terrestrial magnetism. 

{d) Division of geodynamics and atmospheric electricity: 

(1) An instrument for microseismic observations. 

(2) A Eossi seismograph for observing the motions of earthquakes. 

(3) A Secchi seismograph for analyzing the motions of eartliquakes. 

(4) Galvanometer for the daily observations of the telluric current. 

(5) Palmieri electrometer with movable conductors; a Boenghar- 
TEN electroscope for making observations of the atmospheric electricity. 

Pekin, China. 

Observatory of the Imperial Russian Embassy. 

Longitude from Greenwich, 7'' 45"' 5G'' E, 

Latitude, 39° 54' 13" X. 

Authority for longitude and latitude: WuRM, 1845. In Conuaissance 

des Temps, 1884, p. xli. 
Director: . 

Pisa, Italy. 

Observatorio. 

Longitude from Greenwich, 41"' 3G« E. 
Latitude, 43° 43' 5" N. 

xYnthority for longitude and latitude: iNlARlENi, 18G1. In Conuais- 
sance des Temps, 1884, p. xxxiv. 
Director: . 

Plonsk, Russia. 

Private Observatory of Dr, J. Jedrzejewicz. 

Longitude from Greenwich, 1'' 21"' 32"* E. 

Latitude, 52° 37' 40" N. 

Authority for longitude and latitude: A. Lancaster, Liste G^n^rale 

Observatoires et Astrononu\s, 1887. 
Director : Dr. JiiiDRZEJEWicz. 



ASTKONUMICAL OBSERVATOEIES. 401 

PoLA, Austria. 

Najitisches Obscrvatorium, 

Longitude from Greeiiwicb, 53'" 1*3. LS^ E. 
Latitiule, 44° 51' 49" N. 
Directors : J. Palisa, 187L\ 
R. MiJLLER, 1880. 
F. Laschober. 

Founded in 1872. 

The observatory at Tola has grown out of the okl marine observatory 
at Venice, whicli, after the campaign of 1848, was at first removed to 
Trieste, and from there to Pohi in the year 18GG. The observatory was 
naturally used chiefly as a "chronometer depot." That meteorological, 
and later magnetic observations were taken there was owing to the 
exertions of the director and to the sagacity of the leading marine cen- 
tral stations. 

The regular meteorological records at Pola began in xVugust, 18G4, 
and were continued in the marine barracks !)y oflicers and cadets at 
an altitude of 30.5 meters till February 7, 18GG, after which they were 
taken in charge by the marine observatory, which had Just been moved 
hero from Trieste. 

The observatory has paid particular attention to astronomy only un- 
der Mr. J. Palisa's direction. I\Ir. J. Palisa has discovered at this ob- 
servatory twenty-three small planets, and his brother, Mr. A. Palisa, 
one (5omet. Since his call to Vienna nothing has been done in addition 
to the regular time determinations but to fix the position of occasional 
comets and small planets. We have at our disposal the following astro- 
nomical instruments: 

One meridian, by Trougiiton & Simms, with G-inch object glass, of 
G-foot focal distance, and two cirnles of 0.0 meter diameter. 

One refractor, with Ginch object glass, of 7-foot focal distance, ob- 
jective by Steiniieil. 

One brachytelescope, by Fritsch, Vienna, with 12-inch glass. 

Two transportable comet-seekers. 

Four fixed telescopes, by Messrs. Frauniiofer and Plossel. 

Four i^enduluui clocks, among them a stationary pendulum, by 
Knoblich in Hamburg, as a normal clock. 

One chronograph, by Hirr. 

Several })ortable universal instruments and theodoliths. 

It is intended to sell the brachytelescope, which was procured only 
to observe the last transit of Venus, and which has too little si)ace in 
its cupola, auil to instiill in its place the great comet-seeker in the way 
invented by Villarceau. Beginning with the year 1885, the astro- 
nomical observations are (o be taken up in a regular manner, and ob- 
servations will be made particularly on the planets ; later also the sun 



462 ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATORIES. 

and the stars of 1° to 2° on the meridiau circle; tlieu on the refractor 
occasional observations of comets and planets; finally, with the small 
stationary telescope, the occnltatious of the stars and the eclipses of 
the satellites of Jupiter. 

The building stands upon the highest hill within the town limits. 
The towers of the two jiarallactic mounted instruments are at the top 
of a second story. The meridian room is in a northern lateral wing. 
The executive oflQces and the chronometer depot occupy the northern 
half of the first floor. One messenger has lodgings in the building. 

The observatory's endowment amounts to 3,200 Austrian florins an- 
nually, together with heating and lighting of all the rooms, incidentals, 
and the salaries of the officers and employes. This sum may be con- 
sidered sufficient, although iutended also for the completion and repair 
of the stock of chronometers. 

Port Louis, Mauritius. 

Royal Alfred Observatory. 

Longitude from Greenwich, 3'^ 50'" 12.5** E. 

Latitude, 20^ b> 39" S. 

Authority for longitude and latitude: A. Lancaster, Liste Generale 

des Observatoires et Astronomes, 18S7. 
Director : C. Meldrum. 

The foundation was laid by H. K. H. the Duke of Edinburgh, in May, 
1870. Work commenced in 1874. 

Portsmouth, England. 

Observatory of ike Royal Naval College. 

Longitude from Greenwich, 1'" 21.88 \y^ 

Latitude, 50° 48' 3" N. 

Authority for longitude and latitude: Connaissance des Temps, 1884, 

p. xiv. 
Director: H. G. Swainson. 

This establishment is no longer an astronomical observatory; its 
work being now confined to the testing of chronometers. The director 
is now " Superintendent of chronometers." 

Potsdam, Prussia. 

Astro- Physikalischcs Obscrvatorium. 

Longitude from Greenwich, 52"' 15.9« E. 

Latitude, 52° 22' 5G" N. 

Director : Prof, Dr. H, C, Yogel. 

Built upon a hill adjoining the park at Potsdam. Opened in 1879 
under the auspices of the Astronomische Gesellschaft. 



ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATOlilES. 463 

The new observatory erected by thelioyal (iovernment iu the neigh- 
borhood of Potsdam, and whose buildiuos and eciuipinents are now 
nearly completed, has for its fundamental purpose the investigation of 
the composition and movements of planetary bodies by means of spec- 
tral analyses and continued records of the events on their surfaces. 

The observatory occupies the so-called Telegraphenberg, formerly a 
station of the optic telegraph line ''Berlin-Cologne," situated south of 
the city of Potsdam, upon the east bank of the river llavel, and about 
li Idlometers (0.8013 mile) from the railroad depot. On the summit, 
im igs ^y_ of Berlin, in north latitude 52^ 2V 50", 04 meters (318 feet) 
above the level of the sea and 04 meters (200 feet) above the level of the 
river Ilavel, is located the principal building, supi)lied with three mov- 
able cupolas, one of 10 and two of 7 meters (33 and 23 feet) diameter, 
respectively. Around this are physical, chemical, and photographic 
laboratories, workshops provided with a dynamo-electrical machine, 
office, janitor's dwelling, and some other rooms for observations and 
collections. Along the gentle northeast slope are three dwelling-houses 
for the scientific staff and the messenger; farther down, close to the 
entrance of the lot and 20 meters (65.6 feet) below the main building, 
lies the well, accessible for observations down to the level of the river 
Havel, the building of the water-works, a shop for the preparation of 
oil gas, and a dwelling-house for the machinists. 

The observatory is surrounded by a tract of woods which forms a 
desirable protection against terrestrial radiation and at the same time 
serves as a condenser of atmospheric humidity. 

This and the adjacent tract of land are the property of the Crown, 
and thus unobstructed possession for all times is secured for the ob- 
servatory reservations, now amounting to nearly 17 hectares (42 acres). 

The principal instrument of the observatory is a refractor of 0.298'" 
(11.7 inches) aperture and 5.4™ (17.7 feet) focus, made, together with 
auxiliary apparatus of spectroscopes and helioscopes, by H. Schroder, 
of Hamburg; parallactical mounting and micrometers by A. Repsold 
& SoHNE. It is used in plain astro-physical v-ork, but i)rincipally for 
the observation of fixed stars, spectra of uebuhne, and for the study of 
planetary surfaces. Exclusively for solar observations it is i)roposed to 
use the second refractor, made by II. Grube, of Dublin, with a parallac- 
tic telescope of 0.207'" (8.1 inches) aperture and 3.4'" (11.1 feet) focus, 
and also a Steiniieil telescope of 0.135'" (5.3 inches) aperture and 2.16"^ 
(7 feet) focus, with parallactic mounting by Pistor »& Martins. This 
was formerly used by Professor Sporer, of Anclam, in his solar ob- 
servations. 

Furthermore, for regular photographic work of the sun a special 
heliograph is to be employed, of which now only exist the optical parts, 
made by H. Schroder, an achromatic objective of 0.16'" (0.3 inches) 
aperture and 4'" (13 feet) focus, together with ocular magnifying glasses, 
and of 0.25'" (0.8 inches) diameter. 



464 ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATOEIES. 

The observatory furthermore owus some smaller telescopes, a 12-iuch 
universal instrumeut by Uepsold, a pendulum clock by Kessels, and 
one by Knoblich, box chrouometers, one each, by Kessels, Knob- 
LiCH, and Ieede, and a considerable equipment of spectroscopic and 
other physical, chemical, and photographic apparatus, meteorological 
instruments, and a set of registering magnetic instruments after the 
Kew pattern. 

Two observers were secured for its observatory on the 1st of July, 
1874, namely: Prof. G. Sporer, formerly teacher of mathematics and 
physics, and pro-rector of the gymnasium in Anclam, and Prof. H. C. Vo- 
gel, formerly astronomer in the observatory of Kammerherr von Biilow, 
in Bothkamp; Dr. Oscar Lohse, of the same observatory, was engaged 
as first assistant. Professor Sporer continued in an iutermistic build- 
ing in Potsdam, the solar observations made in Anclam from 18G1-1874, 
and Professor Vogel and Dr. Lohse observed at the Berlin Observatory 
until spring 1877, when temporary arrangements were made to enable 
them to observe in the new institute. Dr. Gustav Mijller is em- 
ployed as assistant since July 1, 1877, and Dr. Paul Kempf since 
July 1, 1878. 

(Translated from, Publicationen des Astrophysikalischen Observa- 
torium zu Potsdam. Erster Band. Mit sechszehn Tafeln. Potsdam, 
1879.) 

Puebla, Mexico. 

Observatory of the College of Jesus. 

Longitude from Greenwich, G^' 32'" 41^ W. 

Latitude, 19^ 2' 30" N. 

Autliority for longitude and latitude: A. Lancaster, Liste Generale 

des Observatoires et Astronomes, 1887, p. 49. 
Director : P. Spina. 

Pulkova, Bussia. 

Nicolaevslcaia Glavnaia Obscrvatoria. 

Longitude from Greenwich, 2'' 1™ 18.G7'' E. 
Latitude, 59° 4G' 18.7" N. 
Directors : F. W. G. von Struve, 1834. 
Otto von Struve, 18G1. 
Founded in 1834. Three principal halls on the ground floor, the east- 
ern one being used for meridian circle ; the western one for the meridian 
telescope, and the southern one occupied by the prime vertical. Three 
revolving domes, the central and largest coutainingMERZ and Mahler's 
refractor, which has a focus of 23.^ feet (7.1'"), and an aperture of 15J 
inches (0,40"'). A very rich astronomical library. The most elaborate 
and minute researches on the minor corrections of spherical astronomy, 
notably the corrections of aberration of nutations and precession, have 
been made chiefly at this observatory. 



A8TKONOMICAL OBSEKVATOKIES. 465 

PRAauE, Austria. 

I. A'. K. UniversiiiiU Stermvarte. 

Long'itiule from Green wicli, ~u"' U.V^ E. 

Latitude, 50° 5' 18.8" N. 

Autlioiity foi' latitude and loni>itnde, Al. David and J. BdllM. 

Directors: J. Stepling, 1751. 

A. Strandt, 1781. 

A. David, 1799. 

A. BiTTNER, 183G. 

K. Kreil, 1845. 

C. Jelinek, 1851. 

J. G, BoiiiM, 1855. 

Dr. C. Horkstein, 18G8. 

Prof. Ladislans Weinek, — — . 
Tycuio de liRAHE liad .some astronomical instruments temporarily 
mounted at Prague (l(!()0-l(j()l). Tlie observatory, properly so called, 
was not erected nntU 1751, in the Altstadt <iuarter, at the Collegium 
Clcmentiuum, under the direction of the Jesuits. 

Instruments : 

{a) Meridian circle: One; maker, CuR. Starke (mechanical workshop 
of the 1. K. Polytechnic Institute in Vienna); diameter of circle, 30 
inches; divided to 3'; read by 1 nonius to 2"; aperture of objective, 4 
inches. 

{b) Meridian transit instruments: Maker, OiiR. Starke; ai)erture, 4 
inches; {I)') maker, Soiirotter ; aperature of objective, 3 inches. 

(c) IJquatorial instrnments : Makers, C. A. Steinheil's Sons, in 
Munich; aperture of objective, inches; magnifying powers of eye- 
pieces, 50, 84, 252, 420, 072. ((•') Makers, Utzsciineider «& Fraun- 
noEER, iMunich ; aperture of objective, 3 inches. 

(d) Spectroscopes : One; G. & S. i\lERZ, Munich; one small star spec- 
troscope; makers, G. »& S. Merz, JMunich. 

(/) Chronograph: One; Dr. M. II IPPS, Neuchatel, maker. 

[(1) Cloc'ks : Meantime; makers, Lepaute, Paris; sidereal; makers, 
J. BozEK, Prague. 

(/t) Chronometer: Mean time; maker, Barraud. 

{i) Miscellaneous: One sextant ; maker, TYCno Braiie; one octant; 
maker, Tycho Braiie ; one large (Llohen Kreis), by Trougiiton, iu 
London. 

II. Stcrncicarte des Herrn A. SafariJc. 

Longitude from Greenwich, 57'" 47'' E. 

Latitude, 50° 4' 25" N.. 

Authority for longitude and latitude: A. LANCASTER, Liste Gonerale 

des Observatoires et Astronomes, 1887. 
Director : A. Safarik. 

U. Miss. 170 30 



466 ASTEONOMICA . OBSERVATOIUES. 

PuY-LE Dome, France. 

Observatoirc. 

Longitude from Greenwich, 11'" oS^ E. 
Latitude, 45° 4G' 28" N. 

Director , . 

Quebec, Canada. 

Ohserraior)/. 

Longitude from Greenwich, 4*» 44'" 49.3*^ W. 
Latitude, 40° 48' 17.3" N. 
Director: E. D. Ashe, 18G3. 
C. W. Drury. 
Prior to 1883 the instruments were at the residence of Capt. AsHEj 
they were then removed to the observatoiy at the citadel. 

Quito, Ecuador. 

Ohservatorio del Colegio Nacional. 

Longitude from Greenwich, 5'' 15"^' 20* W. 
Latitude, Qo 14' 0" S. 
Director: J. B. Menten, 1S74. 

' Kathowen, Ireland. 

Obseratory of W. E. Wilson. 

Longitude from Greenwich, . 

Latitude, — — — . 
Director : W. E. Wilson. 

EiCHMOND (Surrey), England. 

Kew Obnervatorij of the Royal Society. 

Longitude from Greenwich, 1"^ 15.1^ W. 

Latitude, 51o 28' G" N. 

Directors : Sir Francis Eonalds, 1842. 

I. Welsh, 1852. 

Balfour Stewart, 1859. 

S. Jefferys, 1871. 

G. M. Whipple, 187G. 
Erected in 17G8 as the private observatory of George III ; in 1841 it 
was disnumtled and transferred to the British Association for use as a 
physical observatory ; in 1871, having been endowed by J. P. Gassiolt, 
esq., it was placed under the control of a committee of the Royal 
Society. 



ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATORIES. 407 

Itio DE jAkEiRo, Brazil. 
Imperial Nautical Observatory. 

Longitude from Greenwicli, 2'' 52'" 41.41s \y_ 
Latitude, 22° 54' 23.7" S. 
Directors: A. M. de Mells, 1850. 

E. LiAis, 1871. 

L. Cruls. 
Founded in 1780 ; restored in 1871. 

EoME, Italy. 

L Osficrvatorio astronomico del Golcf/io Bomano. 

Longitude from Greenwielj, 40"' 55.5'* E. 
Latitude, 41° 5;V 53.7" N. 
Directors: G. Asclepi, 17G4. 

G. Calandrelli, 1773. 

S. Dumouciiel, 1824, 

F. DE Vigo, 1838. 
A. Secchi, 1840. 

G. S. Ferrar, 1878. 
P. TACcniNi, 1870. 

Before the estubliisLment of a regular observatory a successiou of as- 
tronomers, more or less famous, made use of tem])orary accommodations. 
In tlie buildings of tlie old college Clavias made observations with a ze- 
nithal sector in 1572, and following years. Sciieiner collected the mate- 
rials for his famous Rosa Ursina, the printing of which was completed 
in 1030 at the new college, west of the Church of St. Ignatius. There, 
too, GoTTiGNiES and BoRaoNDio made occasional observations. Maire 
observed the comet of 1844 at the English colU^ge. Boscovicii fixed 
liimself in the principal hall of the Kircher Museum. Finally, Asclepi 
organized a permanent establishment in 17G4; and in 1787 a square 
tower was built to accommodate the observatory at the eastern angle of 
the college facade on via del Gesu. A new building was put up in 1853, 
having for substructure tlie enormous ])iles which had been intended to 
support the dome of the Church of St. Ignatius. 

11. Observatory of the CaintoL 

Longitude from Greenwich, 40'" 5G.58 E. 

Latitude, 41° 53' 33.5" N. 

Authority for longitude and latitude: A. LANCASTER, Liste Geu^rale 

des Observatoires et Astronomes, 1887. 
Directors: G. Callandrelli, 1824. 

A. CoNTi, 1S27. 

I. Callandrelli, 1841. 

L. Eespighi, 187G. 



4G8 ASTRONOMICAL (JB.SERVATOEIES. 

Established in 1S24 upon the cast to^Ye^ of tbc capitol, which is built 
above the aucient forum. 

III. Ofiscrvatorio asfronomieo xnivato. 

Lougitude from Greenwich, 41)'" 50.3^ E, 

Latitude, il'^ 54' C" N. 

Autliorily for longitude and latitude: A. LANCASTER, Liste Generale 

des Observatoires et Astronomes, 1887. 
Proprietor : Father S. Fereaki. 

EuGBY, England. 

Temple Observatory. 

Longitude from Greenwich, 5'" 1.9^ W. 
Latitude, 52^22' 5" K 
Curators: J. M. Wilson, 1872, 

G. M. kSEABROKE, 1878. 

The observatory was built in 1871 as a memorial to Dr. Temple, 
late head-master of Kugby School, now bishop of Exeter. The funds 
for this purpose were collected chielly from old Rugbiaus bj' the Eev. 
J. M. Wilson. 

KUNGSDORF (NEAR BoNN), PRUSSIA. 
Ster)ucarte. 

Longitude from Greenwich, . 

Latitude, . 

Director : Baron Campiiausen, 

Saint Croix, Antilles. 

Observatoire. 

Longitude from Greenwich, 4'' 18'" 43*^ W. 

Latitude, 17° 44' 32" N. 

Authority for longitude and latitude: Lang. Wurm, 1837. In Con- 

uaissance des Temps, 1884, p. Ixii. 
Director : . 

St. John's, New Brunswick. 

Observatory. 



Longitude from Greenwich, 

Latitude, . 

Director : . 



astijono.mical oijservatories. 469 

Saigon. Fuencjii Cochin China. 

Observatoire. 

Longitude from Greenwich, 7'' 0'" 4S« E, 
Latitude, 10° 4(V W" N. 

Authority for longitude and latitude: 11 ATT, 187."). Tn Connaissance des 
Temps, 18SI, p. xli. 

St. Helena. 
Ohscrvatory. 

Longitude from Greenwich, 21"' 1).98« W. 

Latitude, 15° 55' S. 

Authority for longitude and latitude : Connaissance des Temps, 1884, 

p. It. 
Birecior : . 

St. Petersburg, Russia. 

I. Obscrvaioria Akadcmil Nanlc (Observntory of the Imperial Academy of 

Sciences). 

Longitude from Greenwich, 2'' L"' 131)'* E. 
Latitude, 59° 50' 29.7" N. 
Directors : J. jST. De L'Isle, 1747. 

r. Inschodzow, 17G8. 

R. Bakry, 1794. 

V. WiSNIWSKY, 1811. 

A. Sawitsch, 185G. 
Founded in 1747. • 

II. Astronomieheslcaia Observatoria pri Imp. Universitet. 

Longitude from Greenwich, 2'' 1'" 11.4** E. 
Latitude, 59° 5(7 32" K. 
Director: S. VON GLASENArp, 

III. ZentrnJnaia Fisiehes]{aia Obserratoria. 

Longitude from Greenwich, . 

Latitude, . 

Director : H. Wild. 

San Fernando, Spain. 

Instituto y Obficrratorio de Marina de San Fernando. 

Longitude from Greenwich, 24'" 49.G° W. 
Latitude, 3Go 27' 41.5" N. 



470 ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATORIES. 

Directors: E. Armesto, 1797. 

J. O. Canelas, 1798. 

J. T. Ceeguero, 1825. 

S. MONTOJO, 1851. 

F. DE P. Marquez, 1855. 

C. PUJAZON, 18GG. 
Au observatory bad first been established at Cadiz in 1753, upon 
an an(;ient llomau tower, but was soon abandoned, observations being 
made there only from 1773 to 177G by Tofino and Varela. The new 
observatory was built at San Fernando in 1797. This is the most south- 
erly astronomical establishment iu Europe. 

San Luis Potosi, Mexico. 

Ohservatorlo del Tnstituto CienUfica y Literaria. 

Longitude from Greenwich, . 

Latitude, . 

Director : Dr. G. Barroeta. 

SANTiAao, Chile. 

Ohservatorlo Nacional. 

Longitude from Greenwich, 4'' '42'" 40.3^ W. 
Latitude, 33° 20' 42" S. 
JHrectors : E. G. MoESTA, 1852. 
J. I. Vergara, 18G1. 
Proposed in 1852. The instruments and buildings which had been 
used for the temporary Naval Observatory of the United States at Santa 
Lucia, under Lieutenant Gilliss, were i^urchased as a beginning, and 
in 185G the construction of a»permanent observatory was undertaken, 
consisting simply of a one-story building and central dome. The equip- 
ment has been added to gradually since 1859. 

Scarborough, England. 

Observatory Wigglesivorth. 

Longitude from Greenwich, . 

Latitude, . 

Authority for longitude and latitude: A. LANCASTER, Liste G^nerale 

des Observatoires et Astronomes, 1887. 
Assistant: J. G. LoiiSE. 

ScHWERiN, Mecklenburg. 

Geodetisehes Obser vatorium. 

Longitude from Greenwich, 45»> 40.7» E. 
Latitude, 53° 37' 38.2" N. 

Authority for longitmh^ and latitu(l(>: Astroii. Nachr., LVII, G, 1868. 
In Conuaissauce des Temi>s, 1881, p. xxviii. 



ASTRONOMICAL 0I5SEKVAT0PIES. 47l 

SENFTEjN- BKRG, BOHEMIA. 

StcDiicarlc des Baron, Perish. 

Loiiftitiule from Greenwich, !•' 5'" 50.6** E. 
Latitude, ;10o 5' 10.4" N. 
Director: Dr. Boorsen. 
Ceased to exist. 

Slougti, England. 

Ohscr calory. 

Longitude from Grctniwicb, _{'" 'lo"" W. 
Latitude, 51° 30' lO" N. 

Authority for longitude and hititude: Connaissauce des Temps, 1884, 
p. xvi. 

Director: . 

South Kilwortii, England. 

ObHervatory. 

Longitude from Greenwich, 4"' 2(5" AV. 
Latitude, 52° 25' 51" N. 

Authority for longitude and latitude: Connaissauce des Temps, 1884, 
p. xvi. 

Speyek, Bavaria. 

Stcrnwartc des Kiinii/Iiehcn Lyceums. 

Longitude from Green wicli, 33'" 45.G« E. 
Latitude, 49° 18' 55.4" N. 
No longer in existence. 

Starfield, England. 

Observatory. 

Longitude from Greenwich, 11'" 47- W. 
Latitude, 53° 25' 3" N. 

Authority for longitude and latitude : Connaissauce des Temps., 1S84, 
p. xvi. 

Stockholm, Sweden. 

Observatory. 

Longitude from Greenwich, 1'' 12'" 14^ E. 
Latitude, 59° 20' 34" N. 
Directors : P. V. Wargenttn, 1750. 
H. Nicander, 1770. 

J. SVANBERG, 1803, 

S. A. Cronstrand, 1828. 

K H. Selander, 1858. 

J. A. Hugo Gylden, 1871. 



472 ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATORIES 

Founded in 1750. IJere Wargentin made that long series of obser- 
vatiou on Jupiter's satellites whicb resulted iu tbe first reliable tables 
of eclipses of these satellites. 
Instruments : 

(a) Meridian circle: Makers, Ertel '& Son; diameter of circles, 18 
inches; divided too'; read by 4 microscopes to 1"; aperture of objective, 
4§ inches (0.107 meters); magnifying power ordinarily employed, 124 
diameters. 

{b) Meridiem transit instrument : Maker, A. RErsoLD ; aperture, 2i 
inches, 

(c) Equatorial instrument : Maker, A. liEPSOLD; ai)erture of objective, 
7 inches; maguifyiiig powers of eye-pieces, 114, 150, 190, 302, COO, 

(/) Chronogra^ths : Two. 

{{/) Clocl's: Mean time; makers, Molyneux & CorE ; sidereal; 
makers, Kessels, Sweder. 

{h) Chronometer: Meantime; makers. Dent, LiNDEROTH. 

Stonyiiurst College (near Wiialley), England. 

Stonyhurst College Observatory. 

Longitude from Greenwich, 9"' 52.08s w 

Latitude, 53° bH' 40" N. 

Authority ibr longitude and latitude : Nauti(;al Almanac. 

Directors : Eev. A. Weld, S. J., F. II. A. S., 1838. 

Eev. S. J. Perry, S. J., F. E. A. S., 1800. 

Location: Four mik^s W. of Whalley, Lancasliire, England. 

Height above sea, 381 feet. Euilt in 1838 in the park of the Jesuit 
College. 

Instruments : 

{a) Meridian circle: By Jones; 2 feet G inches; divided to 5'; micro- 
scopes reading to 1"; aperture of object glass, 3 inches; power gen- 
erally used, 56. 

(6) Transit instrument: xiperture of object glass, 2§ inches; power 
generally used, 42; by Cary. 

((!) Equatorial instruments: One by Napier, Curry, Troughton 
and SiMMS; aperture, 8 inches; powers from 30 to GOO or 700; one by 
JoNES; aperture, 4 inches, {c') A Cassegrain rellcctor; aperture, 9^ 
inches; two, Newtonian; aperture, 7 inches. 

(d) 8pectroseoi)cs : An automatic instrument by Urowntng, G prisms 
of G0°, each used twice, with a half ])rism, making largest disper- 
sion =30 prisms of G0°. A large star spectroscope by SniMS, 4 com- 
pound i)risms by IIoffman. A large direct- vision spectroscope by 
Browning. Two smaller instruments by Browning. 

(/) Chronograph: Small one by Breguet. 
{g) Clods: Two sidereal, mercurial pendulums. 



ASTRONOMICAL ORSKi^VAToRlKS 473 

(h) Chronometer : FuoDSiiAM, No. 314.S. 

(/) Mm'cllancouii: xV coni)lc of self-recording lueleorological and iiiag- 
iietical iiistriiineuts are in constant nse. 

Strasbuikj, Germany. 
^ternnmrte. 

LDHjiitude from Grconwicli, 31'" 2.40" E. ) ^. , , _. , 

T .f 1 ion 'iM TQ Q.H AT ( Ol tlie old observatory. 

L:ititude, ■lb-' 6-y o.J.S" JN. J 

Longitude from Greenwich, 31'" 4,05"' E. > 

Latitnde, 4So 34' 59.7- N. J ^^ tlie new observatory. 

Director: A. WiNNECKE. 

About 1770 some astronomical instruments were placed above the 
Siite of the hospital. In 1S(»4 J. Henry established a small obser\a- 
tory in tlie jMiiuster (Cathedral) and observations were made there in 
]Si.'4. A rejiular o!)servatorv was not established by the city until 1830, 
and then it was placed under the charge of Lequiante, but almost 
immediately abandojied. In 1873 a new observatory was erected with- 
out the town, in (;onneclion with the University. Its general i)lan is 
a quadrilateral. 

Sydney, Neav Sottth Wales, Australia. 

Vio rernment Ohftervatory. 

Longitude from (Treenwich, liV' 4'" SCO*" B. 
Latitude, 3;P 51' 41.1" S. 
Directors : W. ScOTT, 18oG. 

G. E. Sm alley, 1802. 

n. C. lilTSSELL, LS70. 
Propr.sed in 1855; comj)leted in 1858. Its first instruments, supplied 
fro)n the private observatory which Brisbane had estal>lislied at Para- 
matta, were those by means of which Dunlap had made his catalogues 
of double stars and of southern nebuhe, 

TACUBAYA, jSiEXICO. 

Ohficrvatorio Aslronomico Naeional Mexlcano. 

Longitude from (Jreenwich, C' 30'" 41.0.')'' W. 

Latitude, ll)o i:4' 17.5" N. 

Authoiity lor longitude and latitude: A.Lancaster, Liste Generale 

<ies Observntoires et Astronomes, 1887. 
Dirrcfor : Angel Anguiano. 

Projected in 1870, and established at (Jiiapultepec in 1878. Trans- 
lerred from Chapultepoo M.uch 8, 1883. 



474 astronomical observatories. 

Taciikent, Eussia. 

Observatoire Asfronomique et Physique de Tachkent. 

Longitude from Greenwicb, 4'' 37'" 10.8*^ E. 
Latitiulo, VlO 19' 32.2" N. 

Authority for lougitude, telegraphic; for hititude, vertical circle ob- 
servations. 
Director : U. ToMERANZEFF, 1880. 

TiFLIS, EUSSIA. 

Observaioria. 

Longitude from Greenwich, 2'' 59'" 17« E. 
Latitude, 41° 41' 46" N. 

Autborit}^ for longitude and latitude : Triangulation, Novo Tcherkask, 
1862. In Counaissance des Temps, 1SS4, p. xlii. 

ToKio, Japan. 

Observatory of the Baigaku. 

Lougitude from Greenwich, . 

Latitude, . 

Director ; Prof. H. M. Paul. 

Toulon, France. 

Observatoire de la Marine, 

Lougitude from Greenwich, 23'" 42« E. 

Latitude, 43° 7' 22" N. 

Authority for latitude and longitude: Counaissance des Temps, 1884, 

p. xii. 
Director : Pagel. 

Toulouse, France. 

Observatoire de Toulouse. 

longitude from Greenwich, 5'" 51.1" E. 

Latitude, 43^ 36' 45.3" N. 

Directors : F. P. A. de Garipny, 1735. 

A. Darquier de Pellepoix, 1748. 
J. ViDAL, 1774. 

DuBUissoN, 1807. 

Victor de Marque, 1822. 

De Desplats et Vauthier, 1832. 

E. Petit, 1867. 

Despeyrous, 1867. 

Saguin, 1807. 

F. DE TiSSERAND, 1873. 

B. Baillaud, 1878. 



ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATORIES. 475 

Trevandrum, India. 

His Highness the 2[aha Eajah^s Ohservatorrj. 

Lonffitiule from Greeiiwicli, 5"' 7'" 59^ E. 
Latitude, 8(P 30' 32" K 

Directors : John Caldecott, F. IJ. A. S., 1837. 
John Allan Bronn, F. \l. S., 1852. 

Trieste, Austria. 

Astronomisches nnd Mctcorolorjischcs Obscrratorittm der K, K. Nautischen 
and HandeJs Akadcmie, 

Longitude from Greeuwicli, 55"> 2.1^ E. 
Latitude, 45° 38' 31" N. 
Directors: F. SciiAUB, 1857. 

A. Kunes, 1870. 

A. Palisa. 

TuNBRiDGE Wells, England. (Sec Crowborough.) 

Turin, Italy. 

Rcgio Osserratorio deW Univcrsita. 

LoDgitude from Greenwieli, 30'" 48,4^ B. 

Latitude, 45° 4' G" N. 

Directors : G. B. Beccaria, 1750. 

T. Valpergadi Caluso, 1782. 

A. M. Vassali Eandi, 180G. 

J. Plana, 18 Ll. 

A. DORNA, 1865. 
Established in 1759 in the top of a tower at the corner of Piazza Cas- 
tello. The Academy of Sciences undertook its direction in 1790, and 
had a new observatory built in tlie palace of the acadeniy. In 1820 
the establishment was transfeiTcd to a terrace of the Palazzo Madama. 
In 1805 the observatory became an appendage of the university. 

Twickenham, England. 



Longitude from Greenwich, 1'" 13.P W. 
Latitude, 51° 27' 4.2" N. 
Director: Mr. Hind. 



UcKFiELD, England. 

Observatory of Captain W. Noble. 

Longitude from Greenwich, 17.8'* E. 

Latitude, 51° 0' 5G.3" N. 

Authority for longitude and latitude: A. Lancaster, Liste Generale 

des Observatoires et Astronomes, 1887. 
Proprietor : W. I^^obleo 



47 G ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATORIESo 

UrsALA, Sweden. 

Observatory of the Uriiversity. 

Longitude fmm Greeuwicb, 1" lO- 30« E. J ^^^^^^ ^,^^ observatory. 

Lati tilde, 59° 51' 37" N. > 

Loi.oitudc from Greenwich, 1" 10"' 30« E. J Qf tlio new observatory. 

Latitude, r>9o 5V 29.4". ' 

Authority for loujiitude and Latitude: New determination in 18S0-'81, 

l)y C. BoiiLiN. 
Directors : A. Celsius, 1730. 
M. Stromer, 1745. 

D. Melanderhjelm, 1761. 

E. Prosrerin, 1707. 
L. REGN:fcR, 1799. 

J. Bredman, 1811. 

G. Svanberg, 1842. 

Herman Schultz, 1804. 
This observatory was founded in 1742, and ceased to exist in 1853. 
The new observatory was founded in 1844 by G. Svanberg, finished 
and in use since 1853. 

IJrbino, Italy. 

Osscrvaforio del CoJef/io Rafael. 

Lon.'jjitude from Greenwich, 50'" 33.1^ E. 

Latitude, 43o 43' 29.59" N. 

Autlumty for longitude and hititiuh^: A. Lancaster, Listc Geuerale 

des Observatoires et Astrononu^s, 1887. 
Director: G. Martinotti. 

Utrecht, IIolland. 

Observatorium. 

Longitude from Greenwich, 20'" 31. 7« E. 
Latitude, 52° 5' 9.5" N. 
Directors : J. F. ITeunert, 1 767. 
G. Mall, 1812. 

R. YANKEES, 1830. 
M. Hock, 18G0. 

J. A. C. OUDEMANS, 1874. 

Founded in 1707. Kenu)de]led in 1804. 

Valentia, Ireland. 
Ohscrratory of iltc London Meteorological Office. 

Longitude from Greenwich, 41'" 10'^ W. 
Latitude, 5lo54'30" N. 



ASTKONOMICAL OBSERVATORIES. 477 

Directors : liw. T. Kerr, 18158. 
-I, E. CuLLUM, 187;"). 
Estabiislied by the London Meteorological Otlice in 18G8 as au observ 
atory of the liist order. 

Venice, Italy. 

Ohscrvator!/ of the Kand Iiisfitute. 

Lonj^itnde from (Ireenwicli, 40'" 2:}. 12" E, 
Latitude, 45° 2C>' 8.5" N. 

Dlrcetors: B. VON WtiLLERSDORF-IjREAiR, 1840. 
Vj. Millosevicii, 1874. 
Established about 1840. 

Verona, Italy. 

(hscrcdtorio. 

Longitude from (xreenwieh, 4.'>"' 5(1' E. 

Latitude, 45o 2G' 8" N. 

Authority for longitude and latitude: IiigiMi. geogr. 18o7. lu Couuais- 

sanee des Temps, 1884, [). xxxv. 
Director : . 

Vienna, Austria. (See Wien.) 

ViLNA, UUSSIA. 

Ast-roitomichojlahi Ohscrcatoria. 

Longitude I'rom Greenwich, 1'' 41'" 11.13^4]. 

Latitude, 54o 41' N. 

Authority for longitude and hititude: Slavinski: " Astrouomische 

Naehrichhen," Vols, v and vill. . 
Directors: M. O. I'oczoBUT, 1704. 

J. li. YON Sniadecki, 1808. 

1*. Slavinskf, 1824, 

M. KLOUSOnNEVITCII, 1841. 

G. A. VON Fuss, 1848. 

G. Sabler, 1854, 

Col. Peter Smysloff, 1807. 
It appears that this observatory had already existed for some time 
wlieu in 1704 I^oczoeut restored it and replaced its instruments. Its 
labors, suspended daring the revolution, were not resumed until 1802. 

Instruments : 
{h) Meridian transit instrument: Maker, Kamsden, iu 1777; aperture, 
4 inches ; magnifying power 40 diameters- 



478 ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATORIES, 

(c) Equatorial instrument: Maker, Ramsden, iu 1777; aperture of 
objective, 4 inches ; maguifying powers of eye-pieces, 40 and GO. 

{d) Spectroscope : Direct vision, maker, S. Meez, at Munich. 

(e) Photometer : Made by the late Prof. L. Schwerd, at Speyer. Of 
the three made by him, one is in Bonn, and the other in Pulkowa. 

(/) Chronograph: Maker, Ansfeld, at Gotha. 

{g) Cloels : One, mean time, maker, Shelton (London) ; one side- 
real, maker. Hardy (London 1819). 

(/<) Chronometer : One, meantime, maker, Dent, No. 2,790 5 one side- 
real, maker, Dent, No. 2,000. 

(i) A heliostat, by S. Merz. Various ancient astronomical instru- 
ments and modern meteorological instruments. The library of the ob- 
servatory contains 1,9GG works, in 4,181 volumes. 

ViviERS, France. 

Oljscrvatoire. 

Longitude from Greenwich, 18'" 44^ E. 

Latitude, 44o 29' 14" N. 

Authority for longitude and latitude : Connaissance des Temi)s, 1884, 

p. xii. 
Director : . 



Warsaw, Russia. 

Astronomichcskaia Observatoria. 

Longitude from Greenwich, P' 24'° 7.4'* E. 
Latitude, 52° 13' 5.7" K 

Directors: Aeininski, 1820. 

J. D. Baranowski, 1848. 

J. WoSTOIvOFF, 1877. 

In 17G4 Rostan made observations at the castle. From 1765 to 1708 
N. Wolf nuulc observations at the Blue Palace on the Mniszech. The 
observatory was not established permanently until 1820, and the ex- 
penses of construction were met by Straszyz, i)rcsident of the univer- 
sity. It contains a hall for meridian instruments, and two towers with 
cupolas. 

Wellington, New Zealand. 
Gorernment OJjservatory. 

Longitude from Greenwich, ll^' 39"' ll" E. 

Latitude, 41° 17' 15" S. 

Authority for longitude and latitude: Connaissance des Temps, 1884, 

p. lii. 
Director : . 



ASTKONOMICAL OBSERVATORIES. 479 

Whalley, England. (iSoe Stonyhurst.) 

WiEN, Austria. 

I. K. K. L^niversitafs ^Sternwarte in Wdhring. 

Longitude from Greeuwicb, 1'' P>"' 21.49^ E. 
Latitude, 48° 13' o5.4" N. 
Directors : M. IIell, 175(5. 

F. VON Friesneckek, 1792. 

J. S. BiiRa, LSI 7. 

J. J. von Littrow, 1819. 

K. L. VON Littrow, 1841. 

1), Edmund Weiss. 
The first observution.s made in Vieinia were undertaken in 1745 by 
the Jesuits J. Eranoois and J. Liesgang. A permanent observatory 
was founded in 175G. It was rebuilt from 1820 to 182(5, and located 
among the university buildings. In 1874 a new establishment on a 
greatly enlarged scale was erected at Wiihring, outside the town, and 
completed in ]879. 

Instruments : 

{a) Meridian circle: Made by Christian Starke, at Vienna (after 
the example of the meridian circles of IvEiciiENRAcn); diameter of cir- 
cles, 3G inches; divided to o'; read by four microscopes tosingle seconds ; 
aperture of objective, 48 inches ; magnifying power ordinarily employed 
120 diameters. 

{h') Prime vertical : Maker, Christian Starke; ai)erture, 50 inches; 
magnifying power, 120 diameters. 

(c) Equatorial instruments : One, made by Alvan Clark & Sons; 
aperture of objective, 14'| inches; njagnifying powers of eye-pieces, up 
to 1,200. {&) One, made by Frauenhofer ; aperture of objective, G 
inches ; magnifying i)owers, up to GOO. 

{d) SpectroscojKS : One small star spectroscope ; one Zoellner's solar 
spectroscope. 

(g) Cloclcs : Two mean time; makers, Utzsciineider, at Munich ; Vo- 
rauer, at Vienna, several sidereal; makers, Molyneux (London); 
AucH (Gotha) ; Graoam (London) ; and a few, more or less accurate. 

{h) Chronometers: Mean time; maker, Arnold; sidereal, makers, 
Kessels, Molyneux, 

(i) Miscellaneous : An equatorial with adaptation for various latitudes, 
the Giuch objective by Steinheil, the mounting by Sciiaffler. Two 
refractors of 4-incli aperture; one of them not equatorially mounted. 
One equatorial of 3-iuch aperture, adapted for various latitudes, object- 
ives by Frauenhofer. One equatorial of 3-inch aperture, by Dol- 
LOND. One dialitic eiinatovial of Plossel, of 5 inches. One comet- 
seeker, of O-inch aperture and 4 feet focal length, by Merz; mounted 
equatorially on the principle of Villareait, by Schneider. One 



480 ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATORIES. 

couietseeker of 3-iucb aperture by Plossel; oue of Hi inches, by 
Steinheil. Besitlew tbcxe, various smaller portable transit iustru- 
nients, tbeodolites, sextants, etc. 

II. Obscrvdforii of the High )School of Technology. 

Longitude from Grecnwicii, I'' 5'" 25.3« E. 
Latitude, 48^ 12' 53.8" N. 
Direciors : J. Uekk, 18C5. 

W. SiNTEK, 1870. 
Founded in 18G5 at the southwestern extremity of the city ; com- 
pleted in 18G7. 

III. Frivate Observatory. 

Longitude from Greenwich, 1'' 5j" 25.3^ E. 
Latitude, 48^ 12' 54.9" ii. 
Director : Dr. Tn. von Oitolzer. 

IV. Eolic Wartc {bci JJobeln). 

Linigitude from Greenwich, . 

Latitude, . 

Director: Ur. Julius IIaun. 

V. Stermcarte Kuffner. 

Longitnde from Greenwich, 1'' 5'" 11^ E. 

Latitude, 48° 12' 47.8" ]S\ 

Authority, A. Lancaster, Liste Generale des Obscrvatoires et As- 

tronomcs, 1887. 
Director : Dr. I^. Uerz. 

VI. Stermcarte des llerrn K. Fritsch. 

Longitude I'rom Greenwich, . 

Ijatitude, . 

Director: K. FEiTSCn. 

VII. Sternn-arte des Derm Baron A. von Rothschild. 

Longitnde from Greenwich, . 

Latitude, — . 

Director: — _— . 



VIII. ISIcrnicarte des Ilerrn W. Biela. 

Longitude from Greenwich, . 

Latitude, . 

Director : W. BiELA. 

IX. Stermcarte des Ilerrn L. Kurzmaycr. 

Longitude from Green wicli, •. 

Latitude, . 

Director: L. Kurzmayer. 



ASTRONOMICAL OB.SEKVATOllIES. 481 

^VILL1A:^LST()WN, Victoria. 
Obseyratorij, 

Longitude Iroiu Grecnwicli, !)'' 39'" 38.8" E. 
LatitiuU', 37° 51i' 7.2" S. 
Eeuioved to Mclbouiue, Victoria, iu 1801, 

AViLUELMSIlAVEN, GERMANY. 

KaiscrlichcH j\Larinv Obsercatunum. 

Loiigitiuic Iroui Grecnwicb, 32"> oo/JP E. 
Latitude, 53° 31' 52.2'"' N. 

Authority for lougitudc: Astrononiisclie Arbeiten des Kgl. prcuss. 
Geodiitiscben Jtistituts iiir 1878; for hititude: Director's ob- 
servations of zeiiitb-stars with meridian circle. 
Director: C. Borgen, Dr. rUil,, 1S7G. 

Founded in 1875; completed in 1878. 
Instruments: 

(rt) jircridian circle : One; makers, A, IvEP^old Soiine, iu ITamburg; 
diameter of circles, 21.0 inches, divided to 2'; read by -l micros(;opes, 
each to 0.1"; aperture of objective, 4.! inches; maguifyiug power ordi- 
narily employed, 125 diameters. 

[b) Meridian transit instrnrncnts : One portable, by 0. Bamberg, Ber- 
lin; aperture, 1^ inches. 

{c) Equatorial instruments : One, by Steiniieil Sohne, iu Munich; 
ai)erturc of objective, 4 inches; magnifying powers of eye-pieces, 48 to 
3G0 ; ring-micrometer, (c') Oue, Steiniieil Hoiine; "Jh inches aper- 
ture; magnifying power, 24 to 150. 

(/) Ghronotjraph : One, by EuESS, Berlin. 

{g) ClocJcs : Mean time ; oue, by Eppner, Berlin ; sidereal; oue, by F, 
TiEDE, Berlin (standard clock). 

{i) Miscellaneous : A complete set of Lamont's instruments for ob- 
serving the variations of the magnetical declination, horizontal force, 
and iuclinatiou. 

Lamont's maguetical theodolite; dip-circle by Dover; self-register- 
ing barometer and anemometer (Boeinson); meteorological iiistru- 
meuts; self-registering tide-gauge; time-ball. Since September, 1880, 
a self-registering tide-gauge, devised by Mr. Eeitz, of llamburg, has 
been erected iu lleligoland aud placed under the coiitrol of this observ- 
atory. 

Windsor, New South Wales, Australia. 

Observatory of John Tebbut. 

Longitude from Greenwich, 10'' 3"' 21.8^ E. 
Latitude, 33° 3G' 28.8" S. 
JHrector : John Tebbut. 
II, Mis. 170 31 



482 ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATOiaES. 

WoLSiNGiiAM, England. 
Ohservaiorii of the Liverpool Astronomical Society. 

Longitude froii: Green wicli, . 

Latitude, . 

Authority: A. Lancaster, Liste Generale, etc., 18S7, p. 03. 
Observer: T. E. Espin. 

Zacatecas, Mexico. 

Ohservafory. 

Longitude from Greenwich, C' 41'" 0.67'^ W. 

Latitude, 22° 4G' 34.9" N. 

Authority lor longitude and latitude: A. LANCASTER, Liste Geuerale 

des Observatoires et Astronomes, 1887. 
Director: A. Jose y Bonilla. 

ZiKAwEi, China. 

Longitude from Greenwich, . 

Latitude, . 

Director : Marc Dechevreus. 

Zurich, Switzerland. 

I. Sternwarfe des ISchwei-zerischcn Polytechnikums. 

Longitude from Green^Yich, 34"' 12.G» E. 

Latitude, 47° 22' 40" N. 

Authority for longitude and latitutle: Astrouomische Mittheilungen 

von Dr. Eudolf Wolf. 
Directors : J. H. Waser, 1773. 
J. Feer, 1787. 

J. ESCHMANN, 1823. 

llUDOLF Wolf, 18G0. 

Founded in 1773 upon the Carolus Thurm (Charles Tower), through 
the efforts of the Ziirich Society of Naturalists. Abandoned from 17D8 
to 1805. In 1810 ii new observatory was erected east of the Carolus 
Thurm ; this was abandoned in 1852. Finally in 1800 the observatory 
was rebuilt at the polytechniknm, where it was inaugurated in 1803. 

The observatory is mainly used for the practical training of the stu- 
dents. The scientific results are voluntary contributions by the director 
and assistant. 

Instruments : 

{a) Meridian circles : Two; makers, Kern, in Aarau, Ertel, in Mu- 
nich; diameter of circles, 20 inches; divided to 2'; read by 2 micro- 
scopes to 0.1" ; aperture of objective, 5.3 inches ; magnifying power 
ordinarily employed, 120.80. - 



ASTEONOMICAL OBSERVATORIES. 483 

(c) Equatorial instrumentf^: INIakers, Kern, in Aarau; aperture of 
objective, G iiiehes; uiagiiifyiug- power of eyepieces, 00 to 500. (c') 
Merz, in IMunicb, oi inches ; 04 to 212. 

{(l) iSpcci roseojyc : One, by Merz, in Munich. 

(/) Chronograi)hs : Fonr, by Ilirr, in islenchatel, and ITassler, in 
Aarau. 

((/) Clocls : Mean time; makers, Association ouvriere an Locle; side- 
real; maker, Silvain Mairet, Locle. Also several pendulum clocks, 
among- which one by Repsold. 

(h) Chronometc)- : Sidereal; seconds chronometer; maker, Ruzen 

GEIGER. 

(/) MiseeUaneous : Several astronomical theodolites, meteoroscopes, 
panagenprisms, etc. ; also historical collection of anticjue instruments. 

II. I'rivatc Observatory. 

Longitude from Greenwich, . 

Ijatitude, . 

♦ Director : Dr. F. ScniNZ. 



CATALOGUE OF PITBLICATIONS 



^MiTPisorsi^v^s' i:N.-TiTTrTio:Nr 



ET irrLLTA3f J. BHEES. 



nrxKODircTiox- 

The presfcL: ^.... . :^,- ..•iraces all the articles pnblblied hy the 
Smithsonian iDStitntion, from its organization in l^i to the first of 
Joly. 1S8C. a j>€r!od of forty rears. 

At the begiiining nothing was issce«l bet pamphlets e3[p>lanatoiy of 
tht pliin of the Institution, and brief aannal repoits of the proceedings 
of the Board of Eegente. irirlfcated in the catalogne by the letters A. 
B, C, D, E. F. G. n. I. J. K. L. 31, >". O. Q. An elaJx.rate work fP m 
the catalogue), by Eobebt Dahe OwE!r. on public architectnre. ^th 
- : ferenceto the plans of the Smiih.>osian lastitatioa. prepare*! 

: of the building committee, ^as printe*! ar the expense of the 
Institntion in 1S49. but did not form part of the regular series organized 
bv the Secretary of the Institntion, I*rofessor Henry, 

T. Smithmnian Contributions^ to Knotdedge. 

The series entitletl - Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge." in 

quarto lonn. was commenced in jS4^S by the i>ublication of Sqnier and 

Davis's Ancient Monuments of the Mississippi Valley- The following 

■ a«]vertisement~ of the first volume, prepare*! by Professor Henry. 

iL'iicate? ^h<* ^hnracter atd design of the series: 

"Thi- :s intended to form the first of a series of volumes, 

"'-:=::stii:^ • r I .^ina' : ^^ on different bTanches f-f knowledge pub- 

- -r'l at the exyienstr rr the direction of the Smithsonian Insti- 

" n. The x»nt»licai: n -; :iiis series forms part of a general plan 
; ::e«i for carnring into efiect the benevolent intentions of James 
S :.:::;-vr;. >q,. of England. This gentleman left his p>roii«TTy in nnst 
r • "• '^^ - 1 S^T^e^ "^f Arrer-y-i f f'nnd at ^^ashinglon an iuiStitntion 

have for its objects • the in'^rea^ 
„ ." TliLstmst was accepted by the 
G>' t:. : ..f^:.- niied States, and an act of Congress was passe^l 

Augu-: .'•. : . _ „-titnting the President and other principal exec- 
utive ofiicers of the General Government, the Chief Jnstic-e of the Su- 

4SS 



486 CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 

preme Court, the Mayor of Washington,* and such other persons as they 
might elect honorary members, an establishment under the name of tlie 
'Smithsonian Institution, for the increase and diffusion of knowledge 
among men.' The. members and honorary members of tliis establish- 
ment are to hold stated and special meetings for the supervision of the 
affairs of tlie Institution and for the advice and instruction of a Board 
of Kegents, to whom the financial and other affairs are intrusted. 

"The Board of Eegents consists of three members ex officio of the 
establi.ihment, namely, the Vice-President of the United States, the 
Chief Justice of the Supreme Court, and the j\Iayor of Washington*, 
together with twelve other members, three of whom are appointed by 
the Senate from its own body, three by the House of Kepresentatives 
from its members, and six citizens appointed by a joint resolution of 
both houses. To this Board is giveu the power of electing a Secretary 
and other officers, for conducting the active operations of the Institution. 

" To carry into etfect the purposes of the testator, the plan of organi- 
zation should evidently embrace two objects, one, the increase of 
knowledge by the addition of new truths to the existing stock ; the 
other, the diffusion of knowledge thus increased, among men. No re- 
striction is made in favor of any kind of knowledge, and hence each 
branch is entitleil to and should receive a share of attention. 

" The act of Congress, establishing the Institution, directs, as part of 
the plan of organization, the formation of a library, a museum, and a 
gallery of art, together with in-ovisions for physical research and pop- 
ular lectures, while it leaves to the Kegents the iiower of adopting such 
other parts of an organization as they may deem best suited to pro- 
mote the objects of the bequest. 

" After much deliberation, the Begents resolved to divide the annual 
income, thirty thousand nine hundred and fifty dollars, into two equal 
])arts, one part to be devoted to the increase and diifusion of knowledge 
l)y means of original research and publications, the other half of the 
income to be applied in accordance with the requirements of the act of 
Congress to the gradual formation of a library, a museum, and a gal- 
lery of art." 

(The Programme of Organization, adopted December 8, 1847, follows.) 

"In accordance with the rules adopted in the Programme of Organi- 
zation, each memoir in this volume has been favorably reported on by 
a Commission appointed for its examination. It is, however, impossible, 
in most cases, to verify the statements of an author; and, therefore, 
neither the Commission nor the Institution can be resi)onsibie for more 
than the general character of a memoir." 

The total number of j^apers published in the 25 volumes of "Contri- 
butions "is 125, Avith an aggregate of 13,287 pages, 2,115 woodcuts, 
536 plates, and 21 maps, each volume averaging 53H pages. 

2. Miscellaneous Collections. 

In the year 1802, another series was instituted, entitled "Smithsonian 
Miscellaneous Collections," each volume of which has the following 
l)reface: 

"The present series, entitled 'Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collec- 
tions,' is intended to embrace all the publications issued directly by 

* As there is no Mayor of Wasliington at present, lliis is inoperative. 



CATALOGUE OF rUCLICATIONS. 487 

the Smithsonian lustiUition in octavo form; those in qnaito consiitiit- 
iug the 'Smithsonian Contributions to Kno^yIcdge.' The quarto scries 
includes memoirs, embracing the records of extended original investi- 
gations and researches, resulting in what are believed to be new truths, 
atul constituting positive additions to the sum of human knowledge. 
The octavo series is designed to contain reports on the present state of 
our knowledge of particular branches of science; instructions for col- 
lecting and digesting facts and materials for research ; lists aiul syn- 
opses of species of the organic and inorganic world ; museum cata- 
logues; reports of explorations ; aids to bibliographical investigations, 
etc. ; generally prepared at the express request of the Institution and 
at its expense. 

"The position of a work in one or the other of the two scries will 
sometimes depend upon whether the required illustrations can be pre- 
sented .more conveniently in the quarto or the octavo form. 

"In the Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge, as well as in the 
present series, each article is separately jiaged and indexed, and the 
actual date of its publication is that given on its special title-page, ami 
not that of the volume in which it is placed. In may cases works have 
been published and largely distributed years before their combination 
into volumes. 

"While due care is taken on the part of the Smithsonian Institution 
to insiue a proper standard of excellence in its })ublications, it will be 
readily understood that it can not hold itself responsible for the facts 
and conclusions of the authors, as it is impossible in most cases to verify 
their statements." 

The total number of papers published in the 30 volumes of "Miscel- 
laneous Collections " is 140, each volume averaging 884 i)ages, with an 
aggregate of 20,51G pages, 3,03.3 wood-cuts, and 48 plates. 

3. Anntuil Rcporis. 

By the act of Congress organizing the Institution it was made the 
duty of the " Board of Regents to submit at each session a report of the 
operations, expenditures, and condition of the Institution." Tliese an- 
luuil reports form a third series of Smithsonian publications. They 
consist of the reports of the Secretary to the Board of Eegents of the 
operations and condition of the Institution ; the reports of committees 
of the Board ; reports of lectures ; extracts from correspondence ; orig- 
inal or translated articles relating to the history and progress of science, 
etc. 

The first report was submitted by the Board to the second session of 
the 20th Congress, 1847, and formed an octavo pamphlet of 38 pages. 
A similar report was presented annually thereafter, varying in size 
from G4 pages to 320, printed in pami^hlet form with paper covers up 
to 1853, when Congress ordered the report to be bound in cloth. In the 
volume for that year the essential portion of the contents of the pre- 
ceding seven reports was reprinted, and this is now considered as the 
first of a set of Smithsonian reports. The number of pages was limited 
betweeti 1854 and 187G to 400. In the latter year this restriction was 
removed, and since then the average number of pages has been GOO. 



488 



CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 



The number of copies of tbese reports for general distribution ordered 
l)y Congress Las been verj- variable, the largest being 7,500 in 1874 and 
1875, and the smallest 150 in 1817. The number of copies granted the 
Institution each year is shown in the following table: 

Number of extra copies furnished the Instiluiion hy Congress for distrihuiion. 



For tbo 


Number of 


For the 


Number of 


For the 


Number of 


year 


copies. 


year. 


copies. 


year. 


copiei^. 


1847 


150 


1861 


2,000 


1875 


7, 500 


1848 


1, 000 


1862 


2,000 


1876 


6, 500 


1849 


500 


1863 


2,000 


1877 


6, 500 


1850 


1,000 


1864 


2,000 


1878 


6, r;00 


1851 


2,000 


1865 


2, 000 


1879 


7,0(10 


1852 


2,000 


1866 


2, 000 


1830 


7,000 


1853 


:3, 000 


1867 


2,000 


1881 


7,000 


1854 


2,500 


1868 


2,000 


1882 


7. 000 


1855 


2,500 


1869 


3, 000 


188.3 


7,000 


185() 


2,500 


1870 


5, 000 


1S84, I ^ 


7, 000 


1857 


5,000 


1871 


5, 000 


1884, II S 


1858 


5, 000 


1872 


5, 000 


18H5, I I 
188.5, 11 S 


7, 000 


1859 


2,000 


1873 


6, 000 


1860 


2,000 


1874 


7,500 







The total numl)er of pages in the 41 volumes of annual reports is 
21,292, average, 50 pages ; total number of wood-cuts, 2,340, and 148 
plates. 

4. Bulletins of the U. JS. National Museum. 

In the year 1875 a fourth series of publications (octavo) was com- 
menced, entitled " Bulletins of the National Museum," intended to il- 
lustrate tlie collections of natural history and ethnology belonging to 
the United States, constituting the National Museum, of which the 
Smithsonian Institution is the custodian. 

Thirty-one of these bulletins have been published, with an aggregate 
of 7,475 pages, 023 wood-cuts, 80 idates, and 7 uiaps. 

5. Proceedings of the U. S. National Museum. 

In imitation of the practice of those learned societies which publish 
periodically descriptions of new species, etc., in the form of proceedings 
of weekly or monthly meetings, and thus present to the world the dis- 
coveries connected with the establishment at the earliest practicable 
moment, it appeared to be very desirable that the National IMuseum 
should have some medium of i)rompt publication for announcing de- 
scriptions of specimens received (manj^ of which are new Kpecies), as 
w^ell as other interesting facts relative to natural history furnished by 
correspoudence of the Institution. To meet this want a fiftk series of 
publications (octavo), entitled "Proceedings of the National Museum," 
was commenced in 1880, They are printed in su(;cessive signature's as 
fast as material sufficient for sixteen pages is prepiued, and distributed 



CATALOGUE OF rUBLICATIONS. 489 

at once to seieutific societies and leading,- active working natnralists iu 
tliis conn try and in Enroi)e,* eacli .si.yiiatnre Iniving i)rinted at the bot- 
tom of its first i^age the date of actual issue, for scttlin*; any questions 
as to priority of ])ul)licati()n. Of this series eight volumes Lave been 
published, comprising 5,052 pages, with 109 cuts and 72 plates. 

G. Kc2)oris of ihe Bureau of Ethnology. 

The sixth series of publications is the annual report (in imperial 0(!- 
tavo) of the I>ureau of Ethnology, i)hiced by Congress in charge of tlie 
Smithsonian Institution. Of this series four annual volumes have been 
published— those for 1871)-'S0, 1880-'81,.1881-'82, and 1882-'8;3— with an 
aggregate of 2,3G9 pages, 1,821 cuts, 259 plates, and 3 maps. 

The distribution of these volumes to individuals is wholly by members 
of Congress and the Director of the Bureau, Maj. J. W. Powell. 

7. Copyright. 

"No copyright has ever been secured on the publications of the Insti- 
tution. U'liey are left free to be used by compileis of books without any 
restrictions, except that full credit shall be given to the name of Smith- 
son for any extracts which may be made from them. 

8. Use of Illustrations. 

Copies of the wood cuts used by the Institution are granted to 
authors or publishers on payment of the actual cost of ])roduction of 
electroty]>es, ami promise to give proper reference to the article in which 
they originally appeared. 

9. Size of editions. 

In the first ex])eriments of the Smithsonian system of publication 
the pro])er magnitude of the editions necessary to meet the immediate 
and future demand could not be accurately ascertained. The number 
of copies of the contributions theji fixed upon has since been found in- 
ade(piate, although it was larger than that usually issu<Ml by other insti- 
tutions. The edition has, therefore, been augmented, until at the 
present time 1,000 copies of each article are set aside to be comljincd 
into volumes, and an extra number, varying with the probable d(!njand, 
struck off for separate distribution, and for sale. 

Each article is complete in itself, with se])arate paging, title, and in- 
dex, aiul without any necessary relationship to others combined with 
it in the same volume. 

Of the early volumes of Smithsonian Contributions, the edition, for 
reasons already explained, was less than that of the succeeding oik-s, 
so that complete sets can not now be furnished. 

In the year 1862 the plan of stereotyping every article printed by 

* Professor BairtVs report for 1880. 



490 CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 

the Institution was adopted, the plates being carefully preserved, thus 
making it practicable at any time to issue new editions except where 
expensive lithographic i^lates were used, a limited number only of 
impressions from these having been taken. 

A number of the earlier articles in octavo were out of print before 
the commencement of the series of " Miscellaneous Collections," and 
consequently are not included in them. 

The printing of the "Bulletins" and "rroceedings " is authorized 
by the Department of the Interior and paid for out of its fund. An 
edition of 3,00!) copies is published, of which one-half is distributed by 
the Dex)artment of the Interior and one-half by the Institution. 

10. .Disfrihution of publications. 

Thedistribntionof the publications of thelnstitution is tomakeknowu" 
to the world the truths which may result from the expenditure of the 
Smithson fund. For this purpose the " Contributions to Knowl- 
edge " are so distributed as to be accessible to the greatest number of 
readers ; that is, to large central libraries. 

They are pres exited on the express condition that, while they are care- 
fully preserved, they shall be accessible at all times to students and 
others who may desire to consult them, and be returned to thelnstitu- 
tion in case the establishments to which they are presented at any time 
cease to exist. 

Full sets of the publications can not be given to all the libraries 
which apply for them, since this is impossible with the limited income 
of the Institution, and, indeed, if care be not exercised in the distribu- 
tion, so large a portion of the income will be annually expended on the 
production of copies for distribution of what luis already been ])iib- 
lished that nothing further can be done in the way of new publications. 

Tbe rules governing the distribution of tiie Smithsonian jiublications 
are appended. To enable institutions not coming within their provisos, 
as well as individuals, to procure copies of such as may be desired, a 
small number is set aside and sold by the Institution at a price which 
is intended merely to cover the actual cost of their publication. 

11. Rules for distribiition of the pnblieations of the Smithsonian Insti- 
tution. 

TO INSTITUTIONS. 

The publications of the Smithsonian Institution are furnished — 

1st. To learned societies of the first class, which present complete 
series of their publications to the Institution. 

2d. To public libraries containing 25,000 volumes. 

3d. Institutions devoted exclusively to the promotion of particular 
branches of knowledge may receive such Smithsonian publications as 
relate to their respective objects. 



CATALOGUE OF TUBLICATIONS. 491 

TO INDIVIDUALS. 

There is no gratuitous distribution to individuals of tlie publications 
of tiu; Institution. 

Tlioy can only be obtained by purcliase, exciianj^e of l)()oks or speci- 
mens, or by services rendered to the Institution. 

12. Form- of (tpplicadon for piil)lic<ilions. 

To the iSmitlisonian Insfitnlion, Washington, T>. C: 

Date, 18 

In behalf of the , we respectfully apply 

for the publications of the Smithsonian Institution, on condition that all 
volumes received shall be carefully j)reserved, be aceessil)]e to any per- 
son who may wish to consult them, and be returned to the Smithsonian 
Institution in case the establishment at any time ceases to exist. 

1. Name of cstiiblisliiiient 

2. LocMtion — Town 

State ^ 

;*.. When established ■_ 

■1. Character 

f). Biiihlings and projierty 

f). reiiiianent fund _._^ 

7. Annual income 

8. \^()Iunu's in liltrary 

i>. Xnniber of persons havin<5 use of liooka 1 

10. Date of last catalogue of library 

11. What ])nblications made 



(Send printed list if possible.) 

12. Name of officers: President 

• Secretary 

Librarian • 

13. Addresses of princii>al scientific men connected with the establishment ami sub- 

jects in which specially interested ^_... 

I rcconmiend the above application. 

^ _ ___ Mmnher of Congreufi, 

District State. 



492 CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 



LIST OF PUBLICATIONS OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTI- 
TUTION. 



Note. — A to Q indicate early publications not oniltiaccd in the regular series. 

A. Journal of Proceedings of the Regents of the Sniithsouiau Institu- 

tion at the city of Washington, beginning on the first Monday of 
September, 1846. 184G. Svo., pp. 32. 

B. Eeport of the Organization Committee of the Smithsonian Institu- 

tion, with the resohitions accompanying the same and adopted 
by the Board of Regents; also, tlie Will of the testator, the act 
accepting the bequest, and the Act organizing the Institution. 
1847. 870., pp. 32. 

C. Digest of the act of Congress establisliing tlie Smithsonian Institu- 

tion. August 10, 184G. 8vo., pp. 8. 

D. Address delivered on occasion of laying the Cornerstone of tlie 

Smithsonian Institution, May 1, 1847. By George M. Dallas, 
Chancellor of the Institution. 1847, 8vo., pp. 8. 

E. Smithson's Bequest. Professor Henry's exposition before the 

New Jersey Historical Society, at its meeting in Princeton, on 
Wednesday, September 27, 1847. 8vo., pp. 8. 

F. First Report of the Secretary of the Smitlisonian Institution to the 

Board of Regents ; giving a Programme of Organization, and an 
account of the operations during the year. Presented December 
8, 1847. 1848. 8vo., pp. 48. 

G. [First] Report from the Board of Regents, submitted to Congress, 

of the operations, expenditures, and condition of the Smitbsonian 
Institution. Senate Doc. 211; Twenty-ninth Congress, second 
session. 1847. 8vo., pp. 38. 
H. Second Report of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institu- 
tion, to the Senate and House of Representatives, showing the 
operations, expenditures, and condition of the Institution durin^' 
the year 1847. Thirtieth Congress, first session. Senate Mis. 
No. 23. 1848. 8vo., pp. 208. 

COXTENTS. 

Report of Prof. .J. IIenhy, and Proceedings of the TV)ard. 

Gallatin, A . ; Robixsox, E. ; Bartlktt, .1. U. ; Tui;NKit, W. W. ; Mortox, 

S. G. ; Marsh, G. P. On publication of Squier & Davis's Ancient 

Monuments. 
Jewett, C. C. Report on plan of lil)rary. 
LooMis, E. Report on meteorology of the United States. 
Espy, J. P. On meteorology. 



CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. . 493 

I. Third Annual Ivcport of the Board ol" K(\i;onts of the Sinithsoiiijui 
Institution, tor tlie year 1848. Thirtieth Congreiss, second ses- 
sion. II. li. Mis., No. 48. 1849. 8vo., pp. (il. 

CONTENTS. 

Report of Prof. J. IIi'.nuy, ami Proceedings oi" tlu; Board. 

jKwr.TT, C. C. Report, ou library. 

Stevens, II. Prospectus of a Bibliographia Aiiieiieaiia. 

Hake, R. Letter relative to gift of a[)paratu.s. 

GUYOT, A. On metric system for scientific observations. 

J. Programme of organization of the Smithsonian Institution. Pre- 
sented in the First Annual lieport of the Secretary, and a(U)[)ted 
by the r>oard of Eegents, December 13, 1847. 1847. 4to., pi». 1. 

K. Correspondence relative to the acceptance for publication of the 
Ethnological Memoir of Messrs. Squier and Davis. 1847. 8vo., 
pp. 8. 

L. [First] Eeport of the Organization Committee of the Smithsonian 
Institution. Reprinted from the National Intelligencer, Decem- 
ber 8, 184G. 8vo., pp. 8. 

M. Reports, etc., of the Smithsonian Institution, exhibiting its i>lans, 
operations, ajid financial condition up to flanuary 1, 1810. From 
the Third Annual Report of the Board of Regents. Presented to 
Congress February 19, 1849. 1849. 8vo., pp. 72. 

N. Officers and Regents of the Smithsonian Institution, with the act 
of Congress accepting the bequest, and the act incorjiorating 
said institution. 184G. 8vo., pp. 14. 

0. An act to establish the Smithsonian Institution. Api^roved August 
10, 1840 : pp. 8. 

P. Hints on Public Architecture, containing, among other illustra- 
tions, views and plans of the Smithsonian Institution; together 
with an appendix relative to building uuxterials. Prepared ou 
behalf of the Building Committee of the Sniitlisoniau Institu- 
tion, by ItOEiciiT Dale Owen, chairman of the committee. 
1849. 4to., pp. 140, 99 wood-cuts, 15 plates. 

Q. Check list of periodical publications received in the reading-room 
of the Smithsonian Institution, for the year 1853. 1653. 4to., 
pp. 28. 

regular series. 

1. Ancient Monuments of the Mississippi Yalley ; comprising the results 
of extensive original surveys and explorations. By E. G. Squier 
and E. H. Davis. 1848. 4to., pp. 340, 207 Avoodcuts, 48 plates. 
(S. C, 1.) 



494 * CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 

2. iSmithsonian Contributions to Knowledge. Vol. I. 1848. 4to., pp. 

;3G(>, 207 woodcuts, 48 plates. 

Contents. 
Squiei: and Davis. Aucieut Monumouts, Mississippi Valley. No. 1. 

3. Ilesearches relative to the Tlauet Neptune. By Sears C. Walker. 

1849. 4to., pp. CO. (S. C, II.) 

4. Epbemeris of the Planet Neptuue ibr the Opposition of 1848. By 

Sears C. Walker. 1848. 4to., pp. 8. (S. C. ii.) 

6. Epbemeris of the Planet Neptune from the date of the LalandeObser- 
vatiousof May 8 and 10, 1795, and for the Opposition of 1840, 1847, 
1848, and 1849. By Sears C. Walker. A])ril, 1849. 4to., pp. 
32. (S. C, II.) 

6. Epbemeris of the Planet Neptune ibr the year 1850. By Sears C. 

Walker. April, 1850. 4to., pp. 10. (S. C, ii.) 

7. Epbemeris of the Planet Neptune for the year 1851. By Sears C. 

Walker. December, 1850. 4to., pp. 10. (S. C, ii.) 

8. *Occultatious visible in the United State's during the year 1848. By 

John Downes. 1848. 4to., pp. 12. 

9. *Occultatious visible in the United States during the year 1849. By 

JonN Downes. 1848. 4to., pp. 24. 

10. *Occultations visible in the United States during the year 1850. By 

John Downes. 1849. 4to., pp. 20. 

11. Occultations visible in the United States during the year 1851. By 

,]oiiN Downes. October, 1850. 4to., pp. 20. (S. C, n.) 

12. On the Vocal Sounds of Laura Bridgman, the Blind Deaf-Mute at 

Boston ; compared with the Elements of Phonetic Language. 
By Francis Lieber. 1850. 4to., pp. 32, one plate. (S. C, il) 

13. Contributions to the Physical Geography of the United States, 

Part I. vii the physical geography of the Mississippi Valley, 
with suggestions for the improvement of the navigation of the 
Ohio, and other rivers. By Charles Ellet, Jr. 1850. 4to., 
pp. 04, 2 Avoodcuts, 1 plate. (S. C. ii.) 

14. A Memoir on Mosasatirus, and the three Allied New Genera, Hoi- 

codus, Conosaurus, and Ami^horosteus. By Egbert W. Gibbes. 
November, 1850. 4to., pp. 14, 3 plates of 28 figures. (S. C, ii.) 

15. Aboriginal Monuments of the State of New York. Comprising the 

results of original surveys and explorations; with an illustrative 
appendix. By E. G. Squier. 1850. 4to., pp. 188, 79 woodcuts, 
14 plates of 33 figures. (S. C, ii.) 

* These three jiapers by Mr. Downes, Nos. 8, t), 10, were not puljUsb^d in the series 
of Contributions. 



CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 405 

16. The ChissificatioM of rnsects from Embryologi(!al Data. D.v LouiS 

Agassiz. 1850. Uo., pp. 28, 8 woodcuts, one plate of 2.3 liguies. 

(S. C, ir.) 

17. JNIemoir on the Explosiveness of Nitre, with a view to ehicidatc it« 

agency in the tremendous explosion of July, 1845, in New York. 
By Egbert Hare. 1850. 4to., pp. 20. (S. C il) 

18. Keport on the History of the Discovery of Neptiuie. 15y Uen-jamin 

xVpthorp Gould, .Ir. 1850. Svo., pp. 50. 

19. Directions for Meteorological Observations, intended for the llrst 

class of observers. By Arnold Guyot. 1850. 8v()., ])p. 10, 
9 woodcuts. 

20. IMicroscopical Examinations of Soundings, made by the United 

States Coast Survey olf the Atlantic coast of the United States. 
By J. W. Bailey. January, 1851. 4to., pp. 10, and 1 plate of 
08 figures. (S. C., ii.) 

21. Fourth Annual Ileport of the Board of llegents of the Smithsonian 

Institution, for the year 1849. Thirty-first Congress, first ses- 
sion. Senate Mis. No. 120, 8vo., pp. 04, with appendix of 207 
pp. House of Bepresentatives Mis. No. 50. 1850. 8vo , i)p. 272. 

CONTKXTS. 

Report of I'lof. J. Henry, ;iud in'oceediugs of tbo Board. 

Gkav, Asa. Account of Lindbcimer's, Feudler's, and Wright's botanical 

explorations in New Mexico and Cabfornia. 
Agassiz, Louis. On tbe foriuation of a nmseum. 
Li.st of meteorological observers. 

Jewett, C. C. Report on library and catalogue system. 
Jewett, C. C. Report on public libraries of tbe United States. 

22. riantiie Wrightianoe Texano-Neo-MexicantB. By A SA Gray. Part 

1. ]\rarch, 1852. 4to., pp. 140, 10 plates of 127 figures. (S. C, 
III.) 

An account of a collection of plants made by Charles Wright in Western 
Texa.s, New Slexico. and Souora, in the years 1851 and 1853. 

23. Microscopical Observations made in South Carolina, Georgia, and 

Florida. By J. W. Bailey. 1851. 4to., pp. 48, 3 plates of 83 
figures. (S. C, ii.) 

24. Ephemeris of the I^lanet Neptune for the year 1852. By Sears C. 

Walker. 1853. 4to., pp. 10. (S. C, iii.) 

25. Notices of Public Libraries in the United States of America. By 

Chas. C. Jewett. Printed by order of Congress, as an ap- 
pendix to the Fourth Annual Report of the Board of Regents of 
the Smithsonian Institution. 1851. 8vo., pp. 210. 



496 CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 

26. Smitlisoniau Coiitributious to Knowledge. Vol. ii. 1851. 4to., 

pp. 572, 89 wood-cuts, 21 plates. 

CONTENTS. 

Walkkr, S. C. Eesearclies relative to Neptune. No. 3. 

LiEBEii, F. Vocal souuds of Laura Biidginau. No. 12. 

Bailey, J. W. Microscopical Kouudiugs off Atlantic Coast. No. 20. 

Ellet, C. Physical geography of the Mississippi Valley. No. 13. 

GiBBES, R. W. Mosasaurus and three allied genera. No. 14. 

Agassiz, L. Classilication of insects from embryological data. No. IG. 

Hare, R. Explosiveuess of nitre. No. 17. 

Bailey, J. W. Microscopical observations in South Carolina, Georgia, 

Florida. No. 23. 
Squier, E. G. Aboriginal niouumeuts of State of New York. No. 15. 
Walker, S. C. Ephemeris of Neptune for 1848. No. 4. 
Walker, S. C. Ephemeris of Neptune for 1846, '47 '48 '49. No. .'3. 
Walker, S. C. Ephemeris of Neptune for 1850. No. (3. 
Walker, S. C. Ephemeris of Neptune for 1851. No. 7. 
DowxES, J. Occultations visible in the United States in 1851. No. 11. 

27. On recent Improvements in the Chemical Arts. By James G. Booth 

and Campbell Mokfit. 1852. 8vo., pp. 21G. (M. C. ii.) 

28. Fifth Annual Eeport of the Board of Regents of, the Smithsonian 

Institution, for the year 1850. Special session, March, 1851. 
Senate Mis., No. 1. 1851. 8vo., pp. 115, (Extra edition of 32G 
PP-) 

CONTENTS. 

Kexjort of Prof. J. Henry, and Proceedings of the Board. 
Jewett, C. C. General catalogue system for libraries. 
Baird, S. F. Report on Museum, and statistics of British Museum. 
Memorial of the Regents to Congress, relative to the Smithsou Fund. 
Squier, E. G. Antiquities of Nicaragua. 

Report of Commission on General Stereotype Catalogue of Pub. Libraries. 
Culbertson, T. A. Expedition to the Mauvaises Terres aud Upper Mis- 
souri. 
Porter, T. C. List of plants of Upper Missouri. 
Harris, E. List of birds aud mammalia of Missouri River. 
Culbertson, T. A. Indian tribes of the Upper Missouri. 
Jkwett, C. C. Copyright books from 1846-1849. 

29. Occultations visible in the United States during the year 1852. By 

John DowNES. 1851. Ito., pp. 34. (S. C, in.) 

30. Contributions to the isatural History of the Fresh Water Fishes of 

North America. By Charles Girard. Parti. A monograph 
of the Cottoids. December, 1851. ito., pp. 80, 3 plates of 48 
figures. (S. C, in.) 

31. A collection of Meteorological Tables, with other tables useful in 

Practical Meteorology. By Arnold Guyot. 1852. 8vo., pp. 
212 



CATALOGUE OF PURL.ICATIONf5. 497 

32. i!fercis Boreali-AuK^ricaiia: or Contributions to a I-Iistory of the 

Marine Alga^ of Korth America. By William Hknry IIakvey. 
I'art L MelatiO!:>{)er«ieie. January, 1852. J:to., pp. 152, 12 col- 
ored plates of 29 fi.gurcs. (S. C, iil) 

33. Tlie Law of Deposit of the Flood Tide, its Dynamical Action and 

Oflice. By Charles Uenry Davis, 1852. 4to., pp. 14. (S. 

(!., IIL) 

34. Directions for Collecting, Preserving-, and Transporting Specimens 

of Xatural History. March, 1859. Svo,, pp. 40, G wood cuts. 
(M. C, II.) 

35. Observations on Terrestrial Magnetism. By John Locke. April, 

1852. 4to., pp. 30. (S. C, in.) 

36. Researches on Electrical Eheometry. By A, Secciif. jMay, 1852. 

4to., pp. GO, 3 plates of 15 figures. (S. C, iii.) 

37. Descriptions of Ancient Works in Ohio. By Chas. Whittlesey. 

1851. 4to., pp. 20, 7 plates of IS figures. (S. C, iii.) 

38. Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge. Vol. in. 1852. 4to., 

pp. 5G2, and 35 plates. 

CONTEXTS. 

Locke, J. Terrestrial maguetisni. No. :15. 

Secchi, a. Electrical rlieometry. No. 06. 

GiUAKD, C. Mouograpli of the cottouls. No. 30. 

Harvey, W. II. Marine algio of North America. Parti. No. 32. 

Gray, A. Plaatie Wrigbtiaua^ Texano-Neo-Mexicau;c. Part i. No. 22. 

Davis, C. H. Law of deposit of the flood-tide. No. 33. 

Whittlesey, C. Descriptions of ancient works iu Ohio. No. 37. 

Walker, S. C. Ephemeris of the planet Neptune for 1852. No. 24. 

DowNES, J. Occultations visil)le iu United States during 1852. No. 20. 

39. Smithsonian Goutflbutions to Knowledge. Vol. iv. 1852. 4to., 

pp. 42G. 

COXTENTS. 

EiGGS, S. R. Dakota Grammar and Dictionary. No. 40. 

40. Grammar and Dictionary of the Dakota Language. Collected by 

the members of the Dakota mission. Edited by S. R. Riggs. 

1852. 4to., pp. 414. (S. C, iv.) 

41. Memoir on the Extinct Species of the AuiGricau Ox. By Joseph 
Leidy. December, 1852. 4to., pp. 20, 4 plates of 15 figures. 
(S. C, V.) 

42. riantic Wrightianai TexanoXeo-Mexicanai. By AsA Gray. Part 

II. February, 1853. 4to., pp. 120, 4 plates of 39 figures. (S. C, 

V.) 

43. Nereis Boreali- Americana; or. Contributions to a History of the Ma- 

rine AlgiE of North America. By W. II. Harvey. Part 11. 
Rhodospermea*.. March, 1853. 4to., pp. 262, 24 plates, colored, of 
64 figures. (S. C, v.) 
H, Mis, 170—33 



498 CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 

44. A Flora and Fauua witliiu Living Animals. By Joseph Leidy. 

April, 1853. 4to., pp. 08, 10 plates of 140 figures. (S. C, V.) 

45. Anatomy of the Nervous System of Bana pqnens. By Jeffries 

Wyman. March, 1853. 4to., pp. 52, 4 wood-cuts, 2 plates of 29 
figures. (S. C, v.) 

46. Plantar Fremontianai : or. Descriptions of Plants collected by J. C. 

Fremont in California. By JohnToeeey. 1853. 4to., pp. 24, 
10 plates of 89 figures. (S, C, vi.) 

47. On the Construction of Catalogues of Libraries, and their i)ublica- 

tion by means of separate stereotyped titles. With rules and 
exami)les. By Chaeles C. Jewett. 1852. 8vo„ pp. 78. 1853. 

8vo., pp. 108. 

48. Bibliogriiphia Americana Historico-Naturalis; or Bibliography of 

American Natural Uistory for the year 1851. By Chaeles 
GiEAED. December, 1852. 8vo., pp. 64. 

49. Catalogue of North American Eeptiles in the Museum of the Smith- 

sonitm Institution. By S. F. Baied and C. Gieaed. Part I. 
Serpents. January, 1853. 8vo., pp. 188. (M. C, ii.) 

50. Synopsis of the Marine Invertebrata of Grand Mauan : or theEe- 

gion about the Mouth of the Bay of Fundy, New Brunswick. 
By William Stimpson. March, 1853. 4to., pp. G8, 3 plates of 
37 figures. (S. C, vi.) 

51. Sixth Annual Eeport of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian 

Institution, for the year 1851. Thirty-second Congress, first 
session. Senate Mis., No. 108. 1852. 8vo., pp. 104. 

COXTENTS. 

Report of Prof. J. Henry, and Proceecliugs of the Board. 
Jewp:tt, C. C. Smitlisoniaii library and copyriglit system. 
Baird, S. F. Natural history explorations iu the United States in 1851, 
Foreman, E. Meteorological system and correspondence. 
Leidy, J. Eeporfc ou fossils from Nebraska. 
Turner, W.W. Indian philology. 

Report of Committee of American Association for Promotion of Scienco- 
on a system of combined meteorological observations for North Americf, 

52. Winds of the Northern Hemisphere. By James H. Coffin. Novem- 

ber, 1853. 4to., pp. 200, 6 wood cuts, 13 plates of 238 figures. 

(S. C, VL) 

53. Catalogueof Portraits of North American Indians, and Sketches of 

Scenery, etc, painted by J. M. Stanley, Deposited with the 
Smithsonian Institution. December, 1852. 8vo., pp. 7G. (M. 

C, IL) 

§4. Occultations of Planets and Stars by the Moon, during the year 
X853, By John Downes. 1853, 4to., pp, 30. (S, C, VL) 



CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. -i09 

65. Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge. Vol. v. 1853. Ito., pp. 
538, 4 wood-cuts, 45 plates- 

CONTENTS. 

Leidy, J. Flora and fauua within living;- animals. No. 41. 
Leidy, J. Extinct species of Amoricau ox. No. 4L 
Wymax, J. Anatomy of the nervons system of Rana pipiens. No. l'>. 
Hauvey, W, IL Marine alg;© of North America. Part IL No. 4:5. 
Gkay, a. Plautie Wrightian;e. Part IL No. 42. 

56. Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge. Vol. vl 1854. 4to., 

pp. 484, wood cuts, 53 plates. 

CONTENTS. 

Torrey, J. Plantie Fr6raontiame. No. 4G. 

ToRKEY, J. Batis maritinia. No. 60. 

Torrey, .J. Darliugtonia californica. No. OL 

Stimpson, W. Marino invertebrata of Grand Manan. No. 50. 

Coffin, J. H. Winds of the Northern Hemisphere. No. i>2. 

Leidy, J. Ancient fauna of Nebraska. No. 58. 

Downes, J. Occultatious dnring the year 1853. No. 54, 

57. Seventh Annual Report of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian 

Institution, for the year 1852, Thirty-second Congress, second 
session, Senate Mis,, No. 53. 1853. 8vo., pp. 96. 

contents. 
Report of Prof. J, Henry, and Proceedings of the Board. 
Jewett, C. C. Report on library and the Halliwell manuscripts. 
Baird, S. F. Scientific explorations in America in 1-52. 
Foreman, E. Report on meteorological system. 

58. The Ancient Fauna of Nebraska: or, a Description of Remains of 

Extinct Mammalia and Chekmi;i from the Mauvaises Terres of 
Nebraska. By Joseph Leidy, Jane, 1853. 4to., pp. 120, 3 
wood-cuts, 25 plates of 126 figures. (S. C, vi.) 

59. Account of a Tornado near New Harmony, lud,, April 30, 1852, with 

a map of the track, etc. By John Chappelsmith. April, 1855. 
4to., PI). 12,. 2 woodcuts, 1 map, 1 plate. (S. C, vii.) 

60. Observations on the Batis mar it ima of Lin-aadns. By John Torrey. 

April, 1853. 4to., ])p. 8, 1 plate of 21 figures. (S. C, vl) 

61. On t\\Ql)arlingtonia Californica; a new pitcher-plant from northern 

Californin. By John Torrey. April, 1853. 4to., pp. 8, 1 plate 
of 9 figures. (S. C, vi.) 

62. Catalogue of the Described Coleopteraof the United States. By F. 

E. Melsiieimer. July, 1853. 8vo., pp. 190. 

63. Notes o» New Species and Localities of Microscopical Organisms. 

By J. W. Bailey. February, 1854. 4to., pi). IG, 7 woodcuts, I 
plate of 39 figures. (S. C, vii.) 

64. List of Foreign Institutions in Correspondence with tUe Smithsoniaii 

Institution, 1850. 8vo., pp. 16, 



500 CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 

65. Itegista-y^jf Periodical PlieuoiHena. Folio, pp. 4. 

66. The Annular Eclipse of May 20, 1854. 1854. 8ro.,pp. 14, 1 map. 

67. Eighth Annual Report of the Board of Eegents of the Smithsonian 

Institution, for the year 1853. Thixty-third Congre.ss,lirst session ; 
Senate Doc. No. 73, pp. 2G9. House of ^RepresEnttatives Mis. Doc. 
No. 97. 1854. 8v0., pp. 310.* 

CONTEXTS. 

-Report of Prof. J. JLenrv, aud Proceedings oftUe Board. 

Jewett, C. C. Report on library. 

Baikd, S. F. Report on publicatians, exchanges, uiuseum, and explora-r 

tious. 
Blodget, L. List of meteorological observers. 
Pearck, J. A. Report of Committee of Regents on tlistribntioii of Sniith- 

Bouian income. 
Meaciiam, J. Minority report of committee on income. 
Smitiisox., J. Will of. 

Rush, R. Letter from, relative to James Smithson. 
GiLiJEiiT, D.., President of the Royal Society. Notice of Smithsou. 
Smithson, J. List of i^apers presented by, to the Royal Society. 
Smithson, J. Contributions to the Annals of Philosophy. 
Act of Congress accepting bequest, July 1, Id^. 

Act of Congress to establish -the Smithsonian -Institution, August 10, 1846. 
Berkien, J. McP. Construction of the act establit^hing the Smithsonian 

Institution. 
Henry, J. Address on the Smithsonian Institution. 
Everett, E. ; Sparks, J. ; Peikge, B, ; LoxcfTELLOw, fi. W. ; Gray, A. 

Report of American Academy of Arts au<l Sciences on Organization of 

Smithsonian lustitntion. 
Henry, J. First Report of the Secretary, Dec. 8, 1847. (Reprint.) 
Henry, J. Second Report of the Secretary for 1818. (Reprint.) 
Henry, J. Third Report of the Secretary for 1849. (Reprint.) 
Henry, .J. Fourth Report of the Secretary for 1850. (Reprint.) 
Henry, J. Fifth Report of the Secretary for "1851. (Reprint.) 
Henry, J. Sixth Report of the Secretary for 1852. (Reprint.) 

68. Vocabulary of the Jargon or Trade Language of Oregon. By B. 

Rush Mitchell, with additions l>y W. W. Tuener. April, 
1853, 8vo., pp. 22. 

69. List of Domestic Institutions in ^correspondence with the Smith- 

sonian Institution. 1853. 8ro., pp. 16. 

70. The Antiquities of Wisconsin, as Surveyed and Described by I. A. 

Lapham. May, 1855, 4to., pp. 108, 65 wood- cuts, one map, 54 
plates of 112 figures. (S. L, vii..) 

71. Archaeology of the United States; or Sketches, Historical and Bib- 

liographical, of the progress of information and opinion respect- 
ing vestiges of antiquity in the United States. By .Samuel F. 
Haven. July, 1850. 4to., pp. 172. (S. C, viii.) 

* This is the first of the series of annual reports published by Congress as a boun^i 
volume, 



CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 



501, 



72. A nemoiuontlieextinctSlothtribeofNoifch America. Bv Joseph 

Leidy. June, 1855. 4to., p^p. 70, HJ. plaJ:08.oi' Kia tigurcs. (S. 
0., vn.) 

73. Publications of Learned Societies and Periodicals in the Library of 

the- Smithsonian IiKStitution. December 31, 1854. Tart 1. 
1855. 4to., pp. 40. (S. C. , VIT.) 

74. Catalogueof Publications of the Smithsonian Institution. Corrected 

to J.une, 1862. 8vo., pp. 52. (M. C, V.) 

75. Ninth Annual Report of the Board of Regents of tii« Smithsonian 

Institution, for the year 1854. Senate Mi^. Doc. No. 24, Thi rty- 
third Congress, second session. House of Representatives Mis. 
Doc. No. 37, 1855. 8vo., pp. 404, 4. wood-cuta. 

. eO^'TBKTS. 

Report of Prof. J. Hexry, aud Proeeediugs of the Board. 
Baikd, S. F. Report ou publications, excliaugoa, museum, aud explora- 
tions la tlie years' tfcs53 and 1854. 
Alkxander, B. y. R©pt)rtof arohitect. 
List of meteorological stations and observers. 
Marsh, G. P. Lecture on tlio caiuel'. 
Bkaixakd, D. Lecture -on nature and cure of bites of serpents and the 

TTounds of poisoned arrows. 
Loo MIS, E. Lecture ou the zone of small planets between Mars and 

Jupiter. 
Channixg, W. F. Lecture on the American firo alarm telegraph. 
Reed, IL Lectures on the UtiioTi. 

Russell, R'. ; HiExnY, J". Eectui-es and notes on meteorolosy- 
Hake, R. On John Wise's observation of a thunderstorm. 
GrcBQ-NS, If. Climate of- San Francisco. 

Logan, T. M. Meteorological observations at Sacramento, Ca!. 
Hatch, F. VV. Meteorological' observations at Sacramento, Cal. 
Frotrkl, J. Pteraarks contributing to tiie physical geography of the North 

American Continent. 
STR-AT>rG, J". J. Natural history of Beaver Island, Michigan. 
EOF F, S. Habits of the bhick bass of the Ohio. 

Head, J. E. Natural history of the country about Fort Ripley, Minn. 
Parvin, J. B. Habits of the gopher of IHiuois. 
Mann, C. Habits of a species of salamander. 

Hoy, p. R. Oti the amblystaraa luridum, a salamaudbr inhabiting Wis- 
consin. 

Carleton, J. H. Diary of an excitrsion in Nfew Mexico. 

Baird, S. F. Fishes on the coast of New Jersey and Long Island. 

Jackson, C. T. Catalogue of rotiks, mineraTs, aud ores collected on geologi- 
cal survey in Michigan. 

Locke, Ja Catalogue ofrocks, minerafe, ores, and fossils. 

Foster, J. W. Catalogne ef'rocks, minerals, etc. 

W'HiTN'BY, J. D. Cataiogue of rocks, minerais, etc. 

Owen, D. D. Catalogire of geological specimens. 

Berlajtdihr, L. Catalogne of collection of historical and geographical 
manuscripts, maps, etc. 

Henry, J. Circular respecting new report on libraries. 

Henry, J. Circular licspecting cepyrtg^ht. 



502 CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 

76. Smithsouiiiu Contribution to Knowledge. Yol VIL 1855. 4to., 

pp. 260, 74 wood cuts, 72 plates, 2 maps. 

CONTEXTS. 

CiiAPPELSMiTH, J. Tornado near New Harmony, Ind. No. 59. 
Bailey, J. W. New species and localities of microscopic organisms. No. 63. 
Lapham, I. A, Antiquities of Wisconsin. No. 70. 
Leidy, J. Extinct slotli tribe of Nortli America. No. 72. 
Publications of societies and periodicals in Smithsonian Library. Parti. 
No. 73. 

77. Tenth Aniiual Eeport of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian 

Institution, for the year 1855. Thirty-fourth Congress, first ses- 
sion, Senate Mis. Doc. 73. House of Representatives Mis. Doc. 
113. 185C. 8vo., pp. 440, 79 wood-cuts. 

CONTEXTS. 

Eeport of Prof. J. Henry, and Proceedings of the Board. 

Bairo, S. F. Eeport on publications, exchanges, museum, and explora- 
tions. 

List of meteorological observers. 

Correspondence : 

Hamilton College, Clinton, N. Y. Examination of Spencer's Tele- 
scope. • 
American Academy of Arts and Sciences, Boston, Mass. Thanks 

to Smithsonian Institution for Exchanges. 
Stone, Wm. J. On plaster casts of antique and modern statues, etc. 
Illinois State Board of Education. Meteorological system for 
every State. 

Butler, A. P. Eeport of Senate Judiciary Committee on the Mauagement 
of the Smithsonian Institution, February G, 1855. 

Harvey, W. H. Lecture on marine algae. 

Morris, J. G. Lecture on natural history as applied to farming and gar- 
dening. 

Morris, J. G. Lecture on insect instincts and transformations. 

Chace, G. I. Lecture on oxygen and its combinations. 

Smith, J. L. Lectures on meteoric stones. 

Snell, E. S. Lecture on planetary disturbances. 

Logan, T. M. On the Climate of California. 

Morris, O. W. ; Henry, J. Quantity of rain at different heights. 

GuYOT, A. ; Henry, J. Directions for meteorological observations. 

Henry, J. Earthquake directions. 

Henry, J. Aurora directions. 

Green, J. Account of a new barometer. 

Henry, J. Eegistration of periodical phenomena. 

MasteriMax, S. Observations on thunder and lightning. 

Letterman, J. Sketch of the Navajo Indians. 

Clingmax, T. L. Topography of Black Mountain, North Carolina. 

RoBixsox, E. ; Ludewig, H. E. ; Squier, E. G. ; Murphey, H. C. ; Hodg- 
son, W. B. ; Irving, W. ; Prescott, W. H. ; Sparks, J. ; Bancroft, 
G. ; Hawks, F. L, Communications relative to publication of Spanish 
works on New Mexico, by Buckingham Smith. 

MiJLLER, J. Eeport on recent progress in physics— Galvanism. 



CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 503 

78. Smithsonian Coiitribntions to Knowledge. Vol. viii. 1856. 4to., 

pp. 504, 52 woodcuts, !) plates. 

CONTENTS. 

Havex, S. F. Archiuoloyy of the United 8t:itc.s. No. 71. 

Olmsted, D. Receut secular period of aurora borealis. N0.8L 

Alvord, B. Tangencies of circles and of spheres. No. 80. 

Jones, J. Chemical and ijhysiological investigations relative to verte- 

brata. No. 82. 
Force, P. Auroral phenomena in higher northern latitudes. No. 84. 
Publications of societies and periodicals in Smithsonian Library. Part 11. 

No. 85. 

79. ISTew Tables for determining the Values of the Coefficients iu the 

Perturbative Functiou of Planetary Motion, which depend upon 
the ratio of the meau distances. By John D. Runkle. No- 
vember, 185G. 4to., pp. ()4. (S. C, IX.) 

80. The Taugeucies of Circles and Spheres. By Benjamin Alvord. 

January, 1850. 4to., pp. IG, 25 wood-cuts, 9 plates of 20 figures. 
(S. C, vm.) 

81. On the recent Secular Period of the Aurora Borealis. By Denison 

Olmsted. May, 1850. 4to., pp. 52. (S. C, viii.) 

82. Investigations, Chemical and Physiological, relative to certain 

Americauta Vertebrata. By Joseph Jones. July, 1850. 4 to., 
pp. 150, 27 wood-cuts. {S. C, viii.) 

83. On the Relative Intensity of the Heat and Light of the Sun upon 

Different Latitudes of the Earth. By L. VV. Meech. JSTovem- 
ber, 1850. 4to., pp. 58, 5 wood-cuts, plates of 9 figures. (S. 
C, IX.) 

84. Record of Auroral Phenomena observed iu the higher Northern 

Latitudes. By Peter Force. July, 1850. 4to., pp. 122. (S. 
C, viil) 

85. Publications of Learned Societies and Periodicals in the Library 

of the Smithonian Institution. Part 11. May, 1850. 4to., pp. 
38. (S. C, VIII.) 

86. Observations on Mexican History and Archaeology, with a special 

notice of Zapotec Remains, as delineated in Mr. J. G. Sawkins's 
drawings of Mitla, etc. By Bkantz Mayer. November, 
1850. 4to., pp. 30, 17 wood-cuts, 4 plates of figures. (S. 
C, IX.) 

87. Psychrometrical Table for Determining the Elastic Force of Aque- 

ous Vapor, and the Relative Humidity of the Atmosphere from 
indications of the Wet and the Dry Bulb Thermometer, Fahr- 
enheit. By James H. Coffin. 1850. 8vo., pp. 20. (M. 

C, L) 

88. Researches on the Ammonia-cobalt Bases. By Wolcott Gibbs 

and Frederick Aug. Genth. December, 1850. 4to., pp. 72, 21 
wood-cuts. (S. C, IX.) 



504 CATALOGUE OP PUBLICATIONS. 

89. North American Oology. By Thom+as M. Brewer. Pa*tr i. Kap- 

tores and Fissirostres. 1857. 4to., pp. 140, 5 plates of 193 fig- 
ures. (S. C, XL) 

90. Illustrations of Siu'face Geology. By Edward Hitchcock. 

April, 1857. 4to., pp. 104, 2 woodcuts, 12 plates of 89 figures. 
(S. C, IX,) 

91. Annual Report of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institu- 

tion, for the year 185G. Thirty-fourth Congress, third session, 
Senate, No. 54, fiouse of Represeutatives, jMis. Boc. No. 55. 
1857. 8vo , pp. 408, 09 wood-cuts. 

CONTENTS. 

Report of Prof. J. He-nry, and PriiG©edittg«.of the Board. 

Baikd, S. F. Report ou ])ul)lieatioiiB, exeliauges, mQaetHU, send- explora- 
tions. 

List of meteorological stations and observers. 

Kohl, J-. G^. On a collee-tioH- of the chart* and maiw of Anu^Ftca. 

RjKiD, D, B. AutJlituctHVe in relatiou tu veiitilatiati, waxJaxin^, lighting, 
lire-i)rooting, acoustics, and the general preservation of lu;aith. 

Henry, J. Syllabus of a course of lectures. on phjsics. 

Henry, J. Acoustics applied to public buildings. 

Bairi), S. F. Directions foi" collecting, preserving, and" transpeffcing speci- 
uieiia of natural history. 

Gill, T. Fishes of New Yoik. 

Guest, W.E. Ancient Indian remains near Prescott, Canada West. 

Sharpless.T., and Patterson, R. Phonography. 

Institutions. in wJiicaphoaograiihy is. taught. 

Wall,G. P:, and Sawkins, J. G. Regort on the anrVey of the economic 
geology of Trinidad. 

Babbage, C. On tables of the constants of nature and art. 

Henry, J. On the mode of testing building materials, and' an account of 
the marble used in the extension of the Unite* Sto*-es Gapitel. 

Smallwood, C. nesoription of the observatory ai.St. MaCtin, Isle Jesus, 
Canada East. 

Meech, L. W. Relative intensity of the heat aud.light of the siui. 

MfiLLER, J. Report on recent progress in physics — eTectticity. 

92. Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge. Vol. ix. 1857. 4tc., 

pp. 480, 45 wood-cuts, 22 plates. 

contents. 
Meech, L. W. Intensity of heat and light of sun up^on. different latitudes. 

No. 83. 
Hitchcock, E. niustrations of surface geology. N6. StJ". 
Mavkr, B. Mexican history and arch:eology, and Zapoteca^eiBaJne. No. 80. 
GiBBS, W., juid- Genth, F. a. Rosoaxches on aumu)iua.-cobalt bases, Ns. 88» 
RUNlfLE, J. D. New tables, planetary motion. No. 79. 
RuNJiLE, J. D'. Asteroid supplement to new tables. No. 94.. 

93. Smithsonian MeteorologicalObservation^ far the year 1855. (Printed 

for examination by the observers.) 1857. 8vo., pp. 118. 
ft4:. Asteroid Srappleyment to ISew Tai^ks [Zftj for detearmiuing tlie V^^ 
ues of U'J ;Mid ita derivatives. By Jtoms D* KkIiEKIJB. JVlaj', 1857. 
4to., pp. 72. (S. C, IX.) 



CATA-LOOIJE OF PUliLI€ATlOKS. 505 

95 Nereis Boi-eali-AiHcrltraiui : or, CcMitribiUioiKS totl^e. FILstOTy ol' the 
MariHe Al^a; o^ Noi-'tli x^Hwriiea. J>y Willeam Henry Harvey. 
Part III. Chlorospennejii. March, 1858. 4to., i)p. 142, M plates 
(>f 44 ligures. (&. C, x.) 

96* Nereia Kf>reaIJ-Ainei'icaiia : or, ContribuMona to a History of the 
Majiue Algas of North America. By William Henuy Har- 
vey. Three parts in oiie vol., with 50 plates. May,. 1&58. 4to., 
pp. 5GS. (Nos. 32, 43, 95.) 

97. Magnetical Observations in the Arctic Seas. By Blisha Kent 

Kane. IVfode duriug ttre Second G-ii-ntrell: Bxpedit-ron in search 
of Sir John Franklin, in 1853, 1854, and 1855, at Tun Rensse- 
laer Harbor, and other po-ints on the^ west coast of Greenland. 
Eediiced and discussed hy. Gkacles A. Scbott. 1859. 4to., pp. 
72, 1 wood-cfit, 2 i)lates. (S. C, x.) 

98. Grammar and Dictionary of the Yoraba Language. With an in- 

troductory Description of the Coujutry aiid People of Yoruba. 
By T. J. BOWEN. June, 1858. 4ta., pp. 23L>j 1 map; (S. G., X.) 

99. Smithsonian Gontributions to Knowledge. Vol. x. 1858. 4to., pp. 

4G2, 1 wood cat^ IG j>^lates, 1 uiap. 

CONTENTS. 

Harvey, W. l¥. M-*riue algie. Par* iif. CUlofespei'meaB. No. 93. 
Kane, E. K. Mayuetical observations iu the Arcti-e S«as. No. 97. 
BowEN, T.J. Gh'ainmar aflwl dictiouai'y of tke* YoKaba laagnage. No. 98. 

100. An account of the Total Eclipse of the Sua on September 7, 1858, 

as obserYod near Olmos^ Peru. By J. M. Gilliss. April, 1859. 
4to,, pp. 22, 1 wood-cut, 1 plate. (S. G., xi.) 

101. Map of the Solar Eclipse of March 15, 1858. By Thomas Hill. 

January, 1858. 8vo., pp. 8, 1 plate. 

102. Gatalogue of the described Diptera of North America. By LI. Os- 

TEN Sacken. Jauuiiryv 1858, 8yo., pp. IIG. October, 1859. 
(M. G., IIL) 

103. Meteorological Observa,tions. made at Providence, Rhode Island^ 

froju December, 1831,. to-May, 38GO-. By A. Gaswell. Octo- 
ber, 18G0. 4to., pp. 188. (S. G., XIL), 

104. Meteorological Observations in the Arctic Seas. By E. K. Kane, 

Made duritig- the SeeoLtd G^tHMell Ii/sped4tioii iu search- of Sir 
John Franklin, in 1853, 1854, and 1855, at Van- Eensselaer, 
Harbor^ and other points on the west coast of Greenland. Re- 
duced and discussed by Gharles A. Schott. Kovember, 1859. 
4to., pp. 120, 10 wood-cuts. (S. G., xi.) 

105. Gatalogue of North American Mammals, chietly in the Museum of 

the Smithsonian Institution. By Spencer F. Baird. July, 
1857. 4to., pp. 22. 



506 CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 

106. Catalogue of North Aiuericau Birds, cliiefiy in the Museum of the 

Smitbsouiau Institutiou. Jiy Spencer F. Bairu. October, 
1858. 4to., pp. 42. 

107. Annual Report of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institu- 

tion, for the year 1857. Thirty-fifth Congress, first session, 
Senate Mis. Doc. jS^o. 272, Hou.se of Representatives, No. 135. 
1858. 8vo., pp. 438, 100 wood-cuts. 

CONTEXTS. 

Report of Prof. J. Hexry, and Proceedings of tbe Board. 

Bairu, S. F. Keport ou publicatious, exchanges, museum, and explora- 
tions. 

List of meteorological stations and observers. 

Stanley, J. M. Report of Committee of Eegents on gallery of Indian 
portrai ts. 

CoNTAXAKi, Miss Eliza B. Present of ornamental album from Greece. 

Chase, S. F. Ou telegraph. 

Gale, L. D. Ou telegraph. 

Hall, J. On telegraph. 

Mason, C. On telegraph. 

Henry, J. On telegrapli. 

Henry, J. On telegraph, deposition of, September, 1849. 

Henry, J. Comuumicatiou relative to a publication by Professor Morse. 

Felton, C. C. Ecport of special comuiittee of Board of Regents on the 
communication of Professor Henry relative to the electro-magnetic 
teiegraph. 

Henry, J. History of the electro magnetic telegraph. 

Le Conte, J. Lecture on coal. 

Alexander, S. Lecture ou vastness of the visible creation. 

Fendler, a, Meteorologj^ aud ethnology, Colonia Tovar, Veuezuela, 
South America. 

Logan, T. M. Meteorology of Sacramento, California. 

Dewey, C. On best hours to find mean temperatures. 

WISSNKR, J. Meteorology of the District of Columbia. 

Mastekjian, S. Observations ou natural phenomena, shooting stars, 
aurora, etc. 

MiJLLER, .J. Report on recent progiess in physics. (Electricity, gal- 
vanism.) 

108. Catalogue of North American birds, chiefly in the Museum of the 

Smithsonian Institution. By Spencer F. Baird. 1859. 8vo., 
pp., 24. (M. C, II.) 

108*. Same title (printed for labeling, with one side of each leaf 
blank). 

109. Annual Report of the Boanl of Regents of the Smithsonian In- 

stitution, for the year 1858. Thirty-fifth Congress, second ses- 
sion. Senate Mis. Doc. No. 49. House Representatives, No. 57. 
1859. 8vo., pp. 448, 48 wood cuts. 



CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 507 

CONTENTS. 

Keport of Prof. J. IlKNiiV, uud Procoediugs of the Board. 
Correspondence : 

SCHLEIDEX, R. Free freight between Germany and United States to 

Smithsonian Institution by the North German Lloyd. 
Sabixe, E. Ou continuance of magnetic observations. 
Baird, S. F. Eeport on publication, exchanges, museum, and explora- 
tions. 
List of meteorological stations and observers. 
Casw^ell, a. Lecture on astronomy. 
CuviER, G. Memoir of Priestley. 

Baird, S. F. Instructions for collecting nests and eggs of American birds. 
Baird, S. F. Instructions for collecting insects. 
LeConte, J. L. Instructions for collecting coleoptera. 
Clemens, B. Instructions for collecting hymenoptera. 
UiiLEK, P. R. Instructions for collecting orthoptera. 
Uhler, p. R. Instructions for collecting hemiptera. 
Uhler, p. R. Instructions for collecting neuroptera. 
LOEW, H. ; Osten Sacken, R. Instructions for collecting diptera. 
Clemens, B. Instructions for collecting lepidoi>tera. 
Taylor, A. S. Grasshoppers and locusts of America. 
Motschulsky, V. Ou means of destroying the grasshopper. 
Martins, C. Vegetable colonization of the British Isles of Shetland, 

Faroe, and Iceland. 
DeCandolle, a. Causes which limit vegetable species towards the north 

in Europe and similar regions. 
Cooper, J. G. Distribution of the forests and trees of North America, 

and catalogue of the native trees of the United States. 
Blackiston; Bland; Willis, J. R. Birds of Nova Scotia. 
Bland; Willis, J. R. Birds of Bermuda. 
Duprez, M. F. Atmosi)heric electricity. 
MtJLLER, J. Recent progress in physics. (Galvanism.) 

Henry, J. Meteorological stations, cost of establishment of. 

HoDGiNS, J. G. Meteorological stations of Upper (Jauada. 

Dudley, T. Earthiiuake at New Madrid, Mo. 

Naill, D. W. Dispersion of a cloud by an electrical discharge. 

Hare, R. Method of forming small weights. 

Friedlander, J. Plan of a bibliography. 

Lyon, S. S. Antiquities from Kentucky. 

Gardiner, R. H. Barometer, rain and snow gauges. 

Guest, W. E. Snow gauge. 

Gardiner, R. H. Opcuiug and closing of Kenuebec River, Maine, 

Canudas, a. Earthquakes in Guatemala. 

HUxMPHREYS, A. A. Method of ascertaining the amount of water in 
rivers. 

110. Annual Report of the Board of Eegents of the Smithsonian In- 
stitution, for the year 1859. Thirty-sixth Congress, first session, 
House of Representatives, Mis. Doc. N^o. 90. 18G0. 8vo., pp. 
450, 57 wood-cuts. 

contents. 

Eeport of Prof. J. Hen'RY, and Proceedings of the Board. 
Baird, S. F. Report of publications, exchanges, museum, and exjdora- 
tions. 



508 CATALOGUE OF PUKLiCAJIONSi 

List of meteorological stations aud observers. 

Peakce, J. A. Notice of Kicliard Rush. 

Feltox, C. C. NatJoe of W. W. Tturoea-i, 

Felton, C. C. Notice of Washington Irviug. 

Bachb, a. I>. Notice of ,J.i«ne.s. P; E&py. 

Bache, a. D^ NjDtiee ef G. WiiFtleiaaun. 

Henuy, J* Notice of Paefeep Cl€av«la»<i. 

Garre3poitd.eja ce.: 

Duke of Northumberland. Presentation of books; 
Henry, J. Actuumt of Priestloy'evleiiS: 
CuNAKD, E. Free freight to SuiithsoHiaB iBtstittvtJon, between United 

States and England. 
Lo«AN, W;. E. Reqmist for dupliea*e- shells. 
Ross, B. R. Ob.siirvations^ in- HiidsoH's Bay terri-tory. 

Johnson,. S; W. Lectnras oh agi-icviltiival ch<Muis.ferv\ 

CARPEXT£Jiv P. P, Lectures OH th-e shells of the Golf of California. 

IVLedler, J, H- Mnv^cmeiit of the st>arsavoniul a central point. 

De la Rive, A. Report- on the traiisaetion« of the- S»M«ty of Physics aud 
Natural: Hif^topy of Geuova, froia July, l§S8j to Jane, 1859. 

RETzaus, Av Present *tate ei etbaology in roliati^u- to the form of the 
human JikulL 

Flourens, M, Memoir of Py-T»«Kis de Candolk. 

AiRi", G. B. On the means which will" ^yw availahle- for correcting the 
nieasuresof the sun's diHtar»e«-iB' thcvnox-t twenty-fiye years. 

Powell, B. Report on the state of kuo-wlfedgo- of- F«id4aHt heat, ujade to 
the British Association, in 183% l-g^Ch and 1854. 

HiLGARD, J. E. Description of the u!-ag«ftie- observatory at the Smith- 
son iaii Inatitiition. 

POGGENHOEFF, J. C. 0& tlio u»6 o^ the galvajioffieter as a measuring 
iiistr-unieuti 

Mallet, R. On obseKT:aftiooS'Of ea^frfitiHak&pheHomena.- 

Casella, L. Description of- meteerologicat iH8tri>moBtsj 

Green, J.; W"DRDkman.N", W. On filling barometer twbes: 

Weesh,^ J. The coustFucti«u o# a stfMidard bftroroeter; and apparatus aud 
prooesses employed' in tlve veritication of baronietei's- ;tt tlie Kew Ob- 
servatory. 

111. Stuitfis-oiiian Contributiaus to KuoAvledge. Vol. xl 1859. 4to., 

pp. 502, 20 wood-cuts, 23 plates. 

contents. 

Brewer, T. M. North American Oology. Pact L Ragtoxfis. and Fissi- 

rostras, Nj9. 89. 
GiLLiss, J. M. Total eeli.i)fie of the sun, September 7, 185B, in Peru. 

No. lOOv 
Bache, a. D. Magnetic and meteorological observataQoa. Part i. No. 

Kane, E. K. Meteorological ohserviilions in the Arctic seas. No. 104. 
LeGonte, J-t L. Cbleopfeera of Kansas and eastern New Mexico. No. 

SoNNTAG, A. Observations on terrestrial magnetiwii iii-MeKi£o» No. 114. 
Loomis, E. On certain storms in Europe and America, December, ISJJt). 
No. 127. 

112. Smithsonian Contributions to Kuowl-edgc Vol. \u. ISGO, 4to., 

pp. 538, 15 wood-cuts, 3 plates. 



CATALOailE OF PUBLICATIONS. 509 

CONTESTS. 

Kane, E. K. Astiononiical observation.s in tlieAlrcfcic seas. No. l'J9. 
WliiTTLKSEY, C. Fluctiiatioiis of level iu North Anieiican lakes. No. 

119. 
Caswki.l, a. Meteorological observatioas ati Providence, R. I., 28i years. 

No. io;5. 
S.MiTU, N. D. Mete?)rological observations near Washington, Ark., 20 

years. No. 131. 
Mitchell, S. W. Researches upon venom of Ihe raUlesnake. No. 1:55. 

113. DisciLssionof the Magnetic and ]\reteorologlcal Observations made 

at the Girard College Observatory, Philadelitliia, in 1840, 1841, 
1842, lb'43, 1844, and 1845. Part i. feve.s^tigation of the eleven 
year period in tlie amplitnde of the solar dinrnal variation and of 
the disturbances of the magnetic declination. By A. D. IjACHE. 
November, 1859. 4to., pp. 22,5 woodcuts. (S. C, xi.) 

114. Observations on Terrestrial Magnetism in Mexico. Conducted 

under the direction of Baron Von MiJLLER, with notes and 
illustrations of an examination of the volcano Popoca-tepetl and 
its vicinity. By August Sonntag. I'ebruary, 1860. 4to., 
pp. 1)2, 4 woodcuts, 1 plate. (S. C, xi.) 

115. Proceedings of the Board of Eegents of the Smithsonian Insti- 

tution, iu relation to the Electro- JMaguetic Telegraph. 186!. 
8vo., pp. 40, 7 wood-cuts. (M. C , ii.) 

116. List of Public LibraTiCvS, In-sti tut ions, and Societi^BS in the United 

States and British Provinces of North America. By William 
J. riHEES. 1850. 8vo., pp. 84. 

117. Catalogue of Publications of Societies and of other Periodical 

Works in the Library of the Smithonian Institution, July 1, 1858. 
Foreign Works. 1859. 8vo., pp. 264. (M. C, in.) 

118. Catalogue of the Described Lepidoptera of North America. By 

John G. MorPvIS, May, 1860. 8vo., pp. 76. (M. C, in.) 

119. On fluctuations of Level iu the North American Lakes. By 

Cpiarles Whittlesey. July, 1860. 4to., pp. 28, 2 plates of 
4 figures. (S. C, xii.) 

120. Eesults of Meteorolgical Observations made at Marietta, Ohio, be- 
I tween 1826 and 1859, inclusive. By S. P. Eildreth. To which 

are added results of observations taken at Marietta, by Joseph 
Wood, between 1817 and 1823. Keduced and discussed by 
Charles A. Schott. September, 1867. 4to., pp. 52, 14 wood-cuts. 
(S. C, XVI.) 

121. Discu.ssion of the Magnetic and Meteorological Observations made 

at the Girard College Observatory, Philadelphia, in 1840, 1841, 
1842, 1843, 1844, and 1845. By A. 1). Bache. Part n. Investi- 
gation of the solar-diurnal variation in the magnetic; declination 
and its annual inequality. June, 1862. 4to., pp. 28, 8 wood-cuts. 
(S, C, XIIL) 



CIO CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 

122. Sniithsoiiiau Miscellaneous Collections. Vol. i. 1862. 8vo., pp. 

738, 23 wood-cuts. 

CONTENTS. 

Directions for meteorological observations. No. 148. 
Coffin, J. H. Psychrometrical tables. No. 87. 
GuYOT, A. Meteorological and physical tables. No. 153. 

123. Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections. Vol. ii. 1862. 8vo., pp. 

714, 33 wood cuts. 

CONTENTS. 

Booth, J. C. ; Morfit, C. Recent improvements in chemical arts. No. 27. 

Proceeding of Board of Regents in relation to the electro-magnetic tele- 
graph. No. 115. 
Stanley, J. M. Catalogue of portraits of North American Indians. 
No. 53. 

Baikd, S. F. Catalogue of North American birds. No. 108. 

Baird, S. F. ; GiRARD, C. Catalogue of North American reptiles. Ser- 
pents. No. 49. 

Check-list shells North America. No. 128. 

Directions for collecting specimens of natural history. No. 34. 

Henry, J. Circular to officers Hudson Bay Company. No. 137. 

Instructions for collecting nests and eggs. No. 139. 

North American grasshoppers. No. 163. 

North Americun shells. No. 176. 

Morgan, L. H. Circular respecting relationship. No. 138. 

124. Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections. Vol. in. 1862. 8vo., pp. 

776, 49 wood-cuts. 

CONTENTS. 

OsTEN Sacken, R. Catalogue diptera North America. No. 102. 
Morris, J. G. Catalogue described lepidoptera North America. No. 118. 
Le Conte, J. L. Cla.ssihcation coleoptera. i. No. 136. 
Catalogue publications of societies in Smithsonian library. No. 117. 

125. Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections. Vol. iv. 1862. Svo., pp. 

762, 30 wood cuts. 

CONTENTS. 

Hagen, IT. Synopsis of North American neuroptera. No. 134. 
Morris, J. G. Synopsis of North American lepidoptera. No. 133. 

126. The Coleoptera of Kansas and eastern New Mexico. By John L. 

Le Conte. December, 1859. 4to., pp. 64, 2 plates of 33 fig- 
ures, 1 map. (S. C, XI.) 

127. On Certain Storms in Europe and America, December, 1836. By 

Elias Loomis. February, 1860. 4to., pp. 28, 13 plates. (S. 

C, XI.) 

128. Check-lists of the Shells of North America. By Isaac Lea, P. P. 

Carpenter, William Stimpson, W. G. Binney, and Temple 
Prime. June, 1860. 8vo., pp. 52. {M. C, ii.) 



CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 511 

129. Astronomical Obscrvatious iu the Arctic Seas. By 1*]. K, Kane. 

Made during the Second Grinnell Expedition in search of SireJoliii 
Franklin, in 1853, 1S54, and 1855, at Van liensselaer Harbor, and 
other points in the vicinity of the northwest coast of Greenland. 
Eeduced and discussed by Charles A. Schott. May, 1800. 4to., 
pp. 5G, 3 wood-cuts, 1 map. (S. C, xii.) 

130. Tidal Observations iu the Arctic Seas. By E. K. Kane. Made 

during the Second Grinnell Expedition in search of Sir John 
Franklin, iu 1853, 1854, and 1855, at Van Beusselaer Harbor. Re- 
duced and discussed by Charles A. Schott. October, 18G0. 4to., 
pp. 90, 3 wood-cuts, 4 plates. (S. C, xiii.) 

131. Meteorological Observations made near Washington, Ark., from 

1840 to 1859, inclusive. By Nathan D. Smith. October, 18G0. 
4to., pp. 90. (S. C, XII.) 

132. Discussion of the Magnetic aud Meteorological Observations made 

at the Girard College Observatory, Philadelphia, in 1840, 1841, 
1842, 1843, 1844, and 1845. By A. D. Bache. Part ill. lu- 
vestigation of the influence of the moon on the magnetic declina- 
tion. June, 1802. 4to., pp. 10, 3 wood-cuts. (S. C, xiii.) 

133. Synopsis of the Described Lepidoi)tera of North America. By John 

G. Morris. Part i. Diurnal and crepuscular lepidoptera. 
February, 1802. 8vo., pp. 380, 30 wood-cuts. (M. C, iv.) 

134. Synopsis of the Neuroptera of North America. With a list of the 

South American species. By Hermann Hagen. July, 1801. 
8vo., pp. 308. (M. C, IV.) 

135. Eesearches upon the Venom of the Rattlesnake. With an iuves. 

tigation of the anatoujy and physiology of the organs concerned. 
By S. Weir Mitchell. December, 1800. 4to., pp. 150, 12 
wood-cuts. (S. C, xn.) 

136. Classification of the Coleoptera of North America. By John L^ 

Le Conte. Part i. March, 1802. 8vo., pp. 312, 49 wood-cuts. 
(M. C, II L) 

137. Circular to Officers of the Hudson's Bay Company. 1800. 8vo., 

pp. 0. (M. C, II ; M. C, viiL) 

138. Circular in reference to the Degrees of Relationship among differ- 

ent Nations. By Lewis H. Morgan. January, 1800. 8vo., pp. 
34. (M. C, II.) 

139. Instructious in reference to Collecting Nests and Eggs of North 

American Birds. January, 1800. 8vo., pp. 22, 20 wood cuts. (M, 
C.,ii.) 

140. Listof the Coleoptera of North America. Prepared for the Smith- 

souiau Institution. By John L. Le Conte. PartL x\pril, 1866. 
8vOc,pp.82. (M. C.,VL) 



512 CATALOGUE OT*' PUBLICATIONS. 

141. Monographs of the Diptera of North America. By H. LoEW- 

Part I. Edited, with additions, by E. Osten Sacken. April, 

1862. 8vo., pp. 24G, 15 woodcuts, 2 plates <jf 42 figures. (M. C, 

VL) 

142. Bibli€graphy of North American Couchology, previous to the year 

1800. By W. G. Binney. Part I. American authors. IMarcb, 

1863. SvD., PI). ■658. (M. C, V.) 

143. Land and Fresh water Shells of North America. By W. G. Bin- 

NEY. Part II. Puimonata Liuiuophila and Thalassopbila. Sep- 
tember, 1865. 8vo., pp. 172, 372 wood^cuts. (M. C, vii.) 

144. Land and Fresh- water Shells of North America. By W. G. Bin- 

NEY. Part III. Ami)ullariidaB, Yalvatid«, Viviparidfc, fresh- 
water 'Rissoidee, CyctophoridiTe, Truacatellidse, fresh- water Neri- 
tida?, Helicinidge. September, 1805. 8vo., pp. 128, 253 wood-cnts. 
(M.C.,vii.) 
145 jMonog'raph of American Corbiculftda3 (recent and fossil). By 
Temple Prime. December, 1865. 8vo., pp. 92, 8G wood- cuts. 
(M. C., VII.) 

146. Meteorological Observations iu the Arctic Seas. By Francis 

Leopold McClintock. Made on board the Arctic searclii-ng 
yacht "Fox," in Baffin Bay and Prince Regent's hilet, in 1857, 
1858, and 1859. Reduced and discussed by Charles A. Schott. 
May, 1862. 4to., pp. 164, 15 woodcuts, 1 map. (S. C.,xin.) 

147. Annual Report of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Insti- 

tution, for the year 1860. Thirty-sixth Congress, second session. 
Senate Mis. Doc. No. 21, 1861. 8vo., pp. 448, 73 wood-cuts. 

CONTEXTS. 

Henry, J. Secretary's report of operations. 

Board of Regents, Proceedings of. 

Baird, S. F. Report on publications, exchanges, museum, and explora- 
tions. 

-Last of meteorological stations and observers. 

List of meteorological material contributed to Smithsonian Institution. 

Correspondence : 

Citizens of Philadelphia. Memorial relative to Lowe's aeronautic 

voyages across the Atlantic. 
Lepsius, R. Presentation of books on Egypt. 
MuLLER, F. On Smithsonian cxchauge.s. 
HiNCKS, Wm. On Smithsonian exebangeH. 

Henry, .J. Reply to memorial on Lowe's aeronautic voyage. 

Henuy, J. On currents of the atmosphere and aerial navigation. 

Rogers, F. Lectures on roads and bridges. 

Carpenter, P. P. Lectures on mollusca, or shell fish, and their allies. 

MORLOT, A. General views on archjeology. 

The microscope. 

NiCKLKS, F. J. Scientific Congress of Carlsruhe, 1858. 

CuviER, G. Memoir of Rend Just Haiiy. 

Sabine, E. Magnetic storms. 



CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 513 

Gardinek, K. H. Disappearance of ice. 

Fendler, a. Temperature of Saint Louis, Mo. 

Dewey, C. Best hours for temperature observatious. 

Henry, J. Description of Smithsonian anemometer. 

Newton, A. Suggestions for saving parts of the skeleton of binls. 

VOLLUM, E. P. On the wingless grasshopper of California. 

WUKDEMAN, G. Specimens of flamingo, etc., from south Florida. 

Gesner, W. Habits of pouched rat, or salamander of Georgia. 

Barnard, V. Birds of Chester County, Pa. 

Cooper, J. G. Forests and trees of Florida and the Mexican boundary. 

148. Directions for Meteorological Observations and the Registry of 
Periodical Phenomena. 18G0. 8vo., pp. 72, 23 woodcuts. (M. 

C.I.) 
149 Annual Report of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian In- 
stitution, for the year 1861. Thirty-seventh Congress, second 
sessioh, House of Representatives Mis. Doc. No. 77. 1862. 
8vo., pp. 464, 25 wood-cuts'. 

CONTENTS. 

Henry, J. Secretary's report of operations. 
Board op Eegents, Proceedings of. 

Baird, S. F. Eeport on publications, exchanges, museum, and explora- 
tions. 
List of meteorological stations and observers. 

List of meteorological material contributed to Smithsonian Institution. 
King, C. B. Catalogue of engravings presented to the Smithsonian Insti- 
tution. 
Correspondence: 

Fladgate, Clarke, and Finch. Smithson's residuary legacy. 
Kunhardt & Co. Free freight to Smithsonian Institution between 

United States and Germany. 
Troyon, F. Lacustrian habitations. 
Morlot, a. Archseology. 

Hill, A. J. Map of antiquities of United States. 
EOYAL Academy of Science, Madrid. Exchanges. 
Mexican Soc. of Geog. and Statistics. Exchanges. 
Hagen, H. Neuroptera. 

Hamilton College, Clinton, N. Y. Exchange of specimens. 
CODD, J. A, Acknowledgment for books. 
Shepard, C. U. Arrangement of mineralogical collection. 
University of Toronto. Scientific co-operation. 
Royal Horticultural Society, London. Exchange of publications. 
Bethune, C. J. Acknowledgment for books. 
Pease, W. H. Acknowledgment for shells, etc. 
Circular of the Institute of Rupert's Laud, 
Crummell, a. Facts respecting Liberia College. 
GiBBS, G. ; and others. Recommendation of Shea's Indian linguistics. 
Shea,'j. G. Account of library of Indian linguistics. 
WooLSEY, T. D. Eulogy on Cornelius C. Felton. 
Cox, S. S. Eulogy on Stephen A. Douglas. 
Rogers, F. Lecture on bridges. 

Alexander, S. Lecture on the relations of time and space. 
Hayes, I. I. Lecture on Arctic explorations. 
B. Mis. 170 33 



614 CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 

Flourens, M. Memoir of Geoffroy Saint Hilaire. 

Laugkl, a. The suu, its chemical analysis. 

Lee, Dk. Progress of astronomical photography. 

LESPIAUI.T, Pkofessor. Small planets between Mars and Jupiter. 

DuFOUR, C. ; Kamtz. Scintillation of the stars. 

DaUBR^e, G. a. Metamorphism and the formation of crystalline rocks. 

Craig, B. F. Nitrification. 

HUKT, T. S. History of ])etroleum or rock-oil. 

Alxen, Z. Explosibility of coal oils. 

Destructive efi'ect of iron-rust. 

Troyon, F. Lacustriau cities of Switzerland. 

RtJTiMEYER, Dr. L. Fauna of Middle Europe during the Stone Age. 

Troyox, F. Eeport on ethnological collections of museum at Lausanne. 

Troyox, F. Archajological researches made at Concise. 

Peale, T. E. Ancient mound in Saint Louis, Mo. 

GiBBS, G. Instructions for archaeological investigations. 

Henry, J. Circular, ancient mining in Lake Superior Copper Region. 

Morgan, L. H. Suggestions relative to ethnological map of North Amer- 
ica. 

CouES, E. ; Prentiss, S. S. List of birds of the Distr'ct of Columbia. 

Prize Questions: 

Holland Society of Science, Harlem. 

Batavian Society of Experimental Philosophy of Eotterdam. 

Society of Arts and Sciences of Utrecht. 

Eoyal Academy of Netherlands. 

150. ADiiual Eeport of the Board of Eegents of the Smithsonian In- 
stitution, for the year 1862. Thirty-seventh Congress, third 
session, House of Representatives jVlis. Doc. No. 25. 18G3. 
8vo., pp. 446, 94 wood-cuts. 

CONTENTS. 

Henry, J. Secretary's report of operations. 
Board of Regents, Proceedings of. 

Baird, S. F. Rei^ort on publications, exchanges, museum, and explora- 
tions. 
List of meteorological stations and observers. 

List of meteorological material contributed to Smithsonian Institution. 
Correspondence : 

Stanton, E. M. Deposit of Beaufort library. 

Canby, E. Deposit of Bishop Johns's library. 

Sibley, H. Meteorological telegrams. 

Engelmanx, G. Heights of mountains in Colorado. 

Guyot, a. On mountain measurements. 

Hubbard, .1. S. Investigations of Biela's comet. 

Darlington, W. History of Chester County, Pa. 

Lyman, Theodore. Ethnographical collections. 

De Schlagintweit, H. Ethnographical collections. 

Daa, L. K. Ethnological Museum of Norway. 

Dille, 1. Antiquities in Missouri and Tennessee. 

RiED, A. Skulls and mummy from Patagonia. 

Gibbs, G. Philological circular. 

GiBBS, G. Ethuological map of United States. 

Gibbs, G. Indian vocabularies. 

Watkins, E. A. Systems of relationship of Crec Indians. 



CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 515 

Corre8i>ou(lencc — Continued. 

Flachenecker, G. Indian languages. 

Pkase, W. H. Natural history of Pacific islands. 

WiKTZ, H. E. Herbarium captured in Tennessee. 

Mettexius, G. Acknowledgment for ferns. 

De Saussuke, H. Hymenoptera. 

ROMEKO, AI. Esjilorations of John Xantus in Mexico. 
Bache, a. D. Eulogy on James A. Pearce. 

Bakxard, F. A. P. Lectures on the undulatory theory of light. 
Wilson, D. Lectures on physical ethnology. 
MoRLOT, A. Lecture ou the study of high antiquity. 
Lubbock, J. North American archaiology. 

Flourexs, M. Historical sketch of the Academy of Science of Paris. 
Floukens, M. Memoir of Leopold von Btuh. 
Flourens, M. Memoir of Louis Jacques Thenard. 
Quatrefages, M. Memoir of Isidore Geoftroy St. Hilaire. 
Phipson, T. L. The catalytic force, or studies on the phenomena of 

contact. 
Herschel, J. On atoms. 
Lesley, J. P. Ou the classificatiou of books. 
Eied, a. Human remains from Patagonia. 
Prize Questions : 

London Institution of Civil Engineers. 

Provincial Society of Arts and Sciences, Utrecht. 

Eoyal Danish Society of Science. 

Academy of Sciences of the Institute of Bologna. 

151. Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge. Vol. xiii. 1863. 4to, 

pp. 558, 80 ^vood•cuts, 4 i^lates, 3 maps. 

CONTENTS. 

Kane, E. K. Tidal observations, Arctic seas. No. 130. 
McClintock, F. L. Meteorological observations, Arctic seas. No. 14G. 
Whittlesey, C. Ancient mining ou shores of Lake Superior. No. 155. 
Bache, A. D. Discussion, Girard College observations. Part ii. No. 121. 
Bache, A. D. Discussion, Girard College observations. Part iii. No. 132. 
Bache, A. D. Discussion, Girard College observations. Parts iv, v, vi. 

No. 162. 
Bache, A. D. Magnetic survey of Pennsylvania, etc. No. 1G6. 
Mitchell, S. W. ; Morehouse, G. E. Eesearches upon anatomy and 

physiology of chelonia. No. 159. 

152. Lectures on Mollusca or " Shellfish," and their Allies. Prepared 

for the Smithsonian Institution. By Philip P. Carpenter. 
1861. 8vo., pp. 140. 

153. Tables, Meteorological and Physical. Prepared for the Smithson- 

ian Institution. By Arnold Guyot. Third edition, revised 
and enlarged. 1859. 8vo., pp. 638. (M. C, i.) 

contents. 

I. Thermometrical tables. 
II. Hygrometrical tables. 

III. Barometrical tables. 

IV. Hypsometrical tables. 

V. Meteorological corrections. 
VI. Miscellaneous tables. 



516 CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 

154. List of Foreign Correspondents of the Smithsonian Institution. 

Corrected to January, 1862. May, 18G2. 8vo., pp. 56. (M. C, V.) 

155. Ancient Mining on the Shores of Lake Superior. By Charles 

Whittlesey. April, 1863. 4to., pp. 34, 30 wood-cuts, 1 maj). 
(S. C, XIII.) 

156. Catalogue of Minerals, with their Formulas, etc. By T. Egleston. 

June, 1863. 8vo., pp. 56. (M. C, vn.) 

167. Results of Meteorological Observations made under the direction 
of the United States Patent Office and the Smithsonian Insti- 
tution, from the year 1854 to 1859, inclusive, being a Eeport of 
the Commissioner of Patents made at the first session of the 
Thirty-sixth Congress. Yol. i. 1861. Thirty sixth Congress, 
lirst session. Senate Ex. Doc. 4to., pp. 1270. 

158. Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections. Vol. v. 1864. 8vo., pp. 

774, 

CONTENTS. 

BiNNKY, W. G. Bibliography of North Ainericau conchology. No. 142. 
Catalogue of publications of the Stnithsouian Institution to June, 1862. 

No. 74. 
List of foreign correspondents of the Smithsonian Institution to January, 

1862. No. 154. 

159. Researches upon the Anatomy and Physiology of Respiration in 

the Chelonia. By S. Weir Mitchell and George R. More- 
house. April, 1863. 4to., pp. 50, 10 wood-cuts. (S. C, xiii.) 

160. Instructions for Research relative to Ethnology and Philology of 

America. By George Gibes. March, 1863. 8vo., pp. 56. 
(M.C, VII.) 

161. A Dictionary of the Chinook Jargon or Trade Language of Ore- 

gon. By GEaRGE GiBBS. March, 1863. 8vo., pp. 00. (M.C, 
VII.) 

162. Discussion of the Magnetic and Meteorological Observations made 

at the Girard College Observatory, Philadelphia, in 1840, 1841, 
1842, 1 843, 1844, and 1845. Second section, comprising Parts IV, 
V, and VI. Horizontal force. Investigation of the eleven (or ten) 
year period and of the disturbances of the horizontal component 
of the magnetic force, with an investigation of the solar diurnal 
variation, and of the annual inequality of the horizontal force, 
and of the lunar eifect on the same. By A. D. Bache. Novem- 
ber, 1862. 4to., pp. 78, 11 wood-cuts. (S. C, xin.) 

163. Circular in Reference to the History of North American Grasshop- 

pers. January, 1860. 8vo., pp. 4. (M. C, ii.) 

164. Smithsonian Museum Miscellanea. 1862. 8vo., pp. 88. (M. C, 

VIII.) 



CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 517 

CONTENTS. 

Abbreviations of uaniea of Statos and Territories of North America, for 

labeling iusects, shells, etc. 
A series of small ligures, from 1 to iC43. 
A series of medium fijjures, from 1 to 2747. 
A series of largo figures, from 1 to 2599. 
Blank check-list of specimens. 
No. 5 consists of columns of figures from 1 to 1,000, and of two series, 25 

and 50, to the 8vo. column. All these are stereotyped and printed with 

from one to eight columns on each page, with blank siiaccs of greater 

or less extent, as may be required. 

165. ^ronograpli of the Bats of North America. By H. Allen. Jiinej 

1SG4. 8vo., pp. 110, 73 wood-cuts. (M. C, vii.) 

166. Records and Results of a IMagnetic Survey of Pennsylvania and 

parts of Adjacent States, in 18-40 and 1841, with some addi- 
tional records and results of 1834, 1835, 1843, and 18G2, and a 
map. By A. D. Bache. October, 1803. 4to., pp. 88, 1 map. 
(S. C, xm.) 

167. New Species of North American Coleoptera. By John L. Le 

CONTE. Part I. March, 1SG3. April, ISGG. 8vo., pp. 180. 
(M. C, VL) 

168. Circular Relative to Collections of Birds from Middle and South 

America. December, 18G3. 8v^o., pp. 2. (M. C, viii.) 

169. Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections. Vol. VL 18G7. 8vo., 

pp. 888, 15 wood-cuts, 7 plates of lOG figures. 

CONTENTS. 

LoEW, H. Monograph of diptera. Parti. No. 141. 

LoEW, H. Monograph of diptera. Part ii. No. 171. 

Le Conte, J. L. List of coleoptera of North America. No. 140. 

Le CoNTE, J. L. New species of North American coleoptera. No. 1G7. 

170. Comparative Vocabulary. May, 18G3. 4to., pp. 20. 

171. Monographs of the Diptera of North America. By JT. Loew. 

Part n. Edited by R. Osten Sacken. January, 18G4. 8vo., 
pp. 372, 5 plates of 44 figures. (M. C, vi.) 

172. Palaiontology of the Upper Missouri ; a report upon collections 

made principally by the expeditions under command of Lieu- 
tenant G. K. Warren, United States Topographical Engineers, 
in 1855 and 185G. Invertebrates. By F. B. Meek aaid F. V. 
Hayden. Part i. April, 18G5. 4to., pp. 158, 48 wood-cuts, 5 
plates of 41 figures. (S. C, xiv.) 

173. The Gray Substance of the Medulla Oblongata and Trapezium. 

By John Dean. February, 18G4. 4to., pp. 80, 5 wood- cuts, IG 
plates of 05 figures. (S. C, xvi.) 

174. Bibliograi)hy of North American Conchology previous to tlie year 

18G0. By W. G. BiNNEY. Part IL Foreign authors. June, 
1804. 8vo., pp. 302. (M. C, ix.) 



518 CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 

175. Discussion of the Maf:jiietic and Meteorolooical Observations made 

at the Girard College Observatory, Philadelphia, iti LS40, 1841, 
1842, 1843, 1844, and 1845. Third section, comprising Parts 
VII, VIII, and IX. Vertical force. Investigation of the eleven 
(or ten) year period and of the disturbances of the vertical com- 
ponent of the magnetic force, and appendix on the magnetic 
effect of the aurora borealis ; with an iuvestigation of the solar 
diurnal variation, and of the annual inequality of the vertical 
force; and of the lunar effect on the vertical force, the inclina- 
tion, and total force. By A. D. Bache. April, 18.G4, 4to., 
pp. 72, 14 wood- cuts. (S. C, xiv.) 

176. Circular in Reference to Collecting North American Shells. Janu- 

ary, 1860. 8vo., pp. 4. (M. C, n.) 

177. Check-list of the Invertebrate Fossils of North America. Creta- 

ceous and Jurassic. By F. B. Meek. April, 1804. Svo., pp. 42. 
(M. C, vn.) 

178. Circular to Entomologists. 18G0. Svo., pp. 2. (M. C, viii.) 

179. Catalogue of Publications of Societies and of Periodical Works, be- 

longing to the Smithsonian Institution, January 1, 1866. 1866. 
8vo., pp. 596. (M. C, IX.) 

180. On the Construction of a Silvered Glass Telescope, 15^ inches in 

aperture, and its use in Celestial Photography. By Henry 
Deafer. July, 1864. 4to., pp. 60, 53 wood-cuts. (S. C, xiv.) 

181. Review of American Birds in the Museum of the Smithsonian In- 

stitution. By S. F. Baird. Part i. North and Middle America. 
June, 1864-June, 1866. 8vo., pp. 484, 80 wood-cuts. (M. C, xii.) 

182. Results of Meteorological Observations made under the Direction 

of the United States Patent Office and the Smithsonian Institu- 
tion, from the year 1854 to 1859, inclusive, being a Report of 
the Commissioner of Patents made at the first session of the 
Thirty-sixth Congress. Vol. ii. Part i. Thirty-sixth Con- 
gress, first session. Senate Ex. Doc. 1864. 4 to., pp. 546. 

183. Check-list of the Invertebrate Fossils of North America. Miocene. 

ByF. B. Meek. November, 1864. 8vo., pp. 34. (M. C, vil) 

184. Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge. Vol. xiv. 1865. 4to., 

pp. 490, 158 wood-cuts, 25 plates. 

CONTENTS. 

Bache, A. D. Discussion Girard College observations. Parts vii, viii, 
IX. No. 175. 

Bache, A. D. Discussion Girard College observations. Parts x, xi, xii. 
No. 186. 

Draper, H. Construction of silvered glass telescope and its use in celes- 
tial pliotography. No. 180. 

Meek, F. B. ; Hayden, F. V. Palajoutology of the Upper Missouri. No. 
172. 

Leidy, J. Cretaceous reptiles of the United States. No. 192. 



I 



CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 519 

186. List of the Described Birds of Mexico, Central America, aud the 
West Indies not in the Collection of the Smithsonian Institution. 
January 1, 1803. 8 vo., i)p. 8. 

186. Discussion of the Magnetic and Meteorological Observations made 

at the Girard College Observatory, Philadelpliia, 1840, 18-41, 
1842, 1843, 1844, and 1845. Fourth section, comprising Parts 
X, XI, and xii. Dip and total force ; analysis of the disturb- 
ances of the dip and total force; discussion of the solar v^iurnal 
variation and annual inequality of the dip and total force; ..pd 
discussion of the absolute dip, with the final values for declina- 
tion, dip, and force between 1841 and 1845. By A. D. Bacue. 
April, 18G5. 4to., pp. 42, 8 wood-cuts. (S. C, xiv.) 

187. Annual Keport of the Board of Kegents of the Smithsonian Insti- 

tution, for the year 1863. Thirty-eiglith Congress, first session. 
House of Eepresentatives, Mis. Doc. Xo. 83. 1804. 8vo., pp. 
420, 5G wood-cuts. 

CONTENTS. 

IIexry J. Secretary's report of operations. 
Board of Regents, Proceedings of 

Bairi>, S. F. Report of publications, exclinnges, niuscnm, and explora- 
tions. 
Lists of meteorological stations and observers. 
Meteorological material contributed to Smitliaoniau Institution. 
Correspondence : 

Gould, B. A. Discussion of Piazzi's astronomical observations. 

Packard, F. A. Project of an outline history of education in the 
United States. 

Chamber op CoMiMKUCE of Bordkaux. Excliango of publications. 

Agricultural Association of Milan. Exchange of pnbIica,tions. 

Irwin, B. J. D. Tucson meteorite. 

AiNSA, Santiago. Tucson meteorite. 

PoOLE, II. Coue-iu-cone. 

Hungarian National Museum. Acknowledgment for birds. 

University of Ciiristiania, Norway. Ethnological specimens pre- 
sented. 

Imp. Geolog. Institute, Vienna. Tertiary fossils presented. 

British Museum. Electrotypes of engravings of shells granted. 

Fisher, J. G. Acknowledgment of perennibranchiates. 

IIaidinger, W. Honorary medal to Von Martins. 

Hudson's Bay Co. Kennicott's explorations. 
Whitney, \V. D. Lectures on the principles of linguistic science. 
DeBeaumont, Elie. Memoir of C. F. Beautemps-Beanpre. 
Alexander, C. A. Origin and history of the Royal Society of Loudon. 
Wetiierill, C. M. Modern theorj- of chemical types. 
De La Rivk, a. Phenomena which accompany the prop.'igation of elec- 
tricity in highly rarefied elastic Quids. 
Marcet, Prof. Ixcport on Society of Physics and Natural History of 

Geneva, from July, 18C>2, to .Juno, 186^5. 



520 • CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 

Plateau, J. Experimental and theoretical researches on the figureb of 
efjuilibriuui of a liquid mass withdrawn irom the action of gravity. 
Part I. 

History of discovery relative to magnetism. 

Gautier, Pkof. Researches relative to the nebula). 

Merino, St. M. Figure of the earth. 

Arago, F. ^ronautic voyages, etc. 

Galisher, Jas. Account of balloon ascensions. 

Baegaut, Jag. Aboriginal inhabitants of the California peniusula. 

Jones, J. M. Kjojkken-mcedding in Nova Scotia. 

MoRLOT, A. Abstract of Dr. Keller's report on lacustrian settlements. 

Eau, C. Agricultural implements of the North American stone period. 

Trowbridge, D. Ancient fort and burial ground in Tompkins County, 
N. Y. 

Kellky, O. H. Ancient town in Minnesota. 

Foster, J. W. Ancient relics in Missouri. 

Danilse.v, a. F. Mound in East Tennessee. 

Purple dyeing, ancient and modern. 

Peale, T. K. Method of preserving lepidoptera. 

Figanierre, M. Account of remarkable accumulatiou of bats. 

Tables of English and French weights and measures. 

Table for conversion of centigrade degrees to Fahrenheit's scale. 

188. Annual Report of tbe Board of Eegeuts of the Smithsonian Insti- 
tution, for the year 18G4. Thirty-eighth Congress, second ses- 
sion. House of Representatives Mis. Doc. 18G5. 8vo., ])p. 450, 
50 wood-cuts. 

contents. 

Henry, J. Secretary's report of operations. 

Board of Kegexts. Proceedings of. 

Webb, T. W. Account of Prof. Henry Draper's telescope. 

Leidy, Jo.s. Review of "Cretaceous reptiles of United States." 

Baird, S. F. Report on publications, exchanges, museum, and explora- 
tions. 

List pf foreign institutions from which donations to the library have been 
received in exchange. 18G0-G4. 

List of meteorological stations and observers. 

Meteorological material contributed to Smithsonian Institution. 

Wallacii, li. ; Henry, J. Report of Committee of Regents in relation 
to the firo, January, 18G5. 

Fourier, Jos. Memoir of Delambre. 

Delaunay, C. Essay on the velocity of light. 

Wetiierii.l, C. M. Ozone and autozone. 

Jamix, J. Vegetation and the atmosphere. 

Becquerel, a. E. Preservation of copper and iron in salt-water. 

Preservation of wood. 

Caoutchouc and gutta-percha. 

VonKaroi.yi; Cijaig, B. F. Products of the combustion of gun-cotton 
and gun-powder. 

Pktte.xkofer, Max. Ap[)aratus for testing the results of perspiration 
and respiration. 

Lamoxt, J. The solar eclipi^o of July 18, 18G0. 

De Pkados, Baijox. Eclipse of the sun, April 2r), 18C5. 

Duby, p. lieport on the transactions of the Society of Physics and Nat- 
ural History of Geneva, 18G1. 



CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 521 

Dk Canbollk, A. Report on the tranHactioiiK of the Socioty of I'liyisics 

and Natural History, lS6'i. 
Troyon, Frkd. Ou the crania helvetica. 
Plateau, J. Experimental and theoretical rcscarclns on (he fijiun's ol' 

equilibriuui of a licjnid mass withdrawn from the action of i^ravity. 

etc. Parts ii, iii, iv. 
Rau, C. Artificial shell deposits in Mi^w Jersey. 
GiBBS, G. The intermixture of races. 

Baegert, J. Aboriginal inhabitants of the California peninsula. Part ii. 
MORLOT, A. Tilt! study of high antiquity in Europe. 
Prize Questions : 

Holland Society of Sciences at Harlem. 

Imperial Society of Natural Sciences of Cherbourg. 

Royal Prussian Academy of Sciences. 

Imperial Academy of Sciences at Vienna. 
Explorations : 

Scientific expedition to Mexico. A report addressed to the Emperor of 
France by the Minister of Public Instruction. 

Kirby, W. W. a journey to the Yukon, Russian America. 

Feilnek, J. Explorations in Upper California in 1860. 

Hoy, p. R. Journal of an exploration of Western Missouri in I8o4. 
Tables of English and Freucli weights and measures. 
Table of chemical equivalents of sixty-three elements. 

189. Catalogue of the Ortboptera of North America described previous 

to 18(57. By Samuel II. Scudder. October, 1S68. 8vo., pp. 
110. (M. C, vm.) 

190. Queries Eelative to Tornadoes. By Joseph Henry. 8vo., pp. 

4,1 wood-cut. (M. C, X.) 

191. Smitlisoniau Miscellaueous Collections. Vo\. vii. 1867. 8vo., 

])p. 878, 813 wood-cuts. 

CONTENTS. 

Allen, H. Monograph of bats of North America. No. 165. 

BiNNEY, \V. G.^ Land and fresh-water shells of Norlh America. Part II. 

No. 143. 
BiNNEY, W. G. Land and fresh-water shells of North America. Part III. 

No. 144. 
Stimp.son, W. Hydrobiime. No. 201. 

Prime, T. Monograph of American corbicidadae. No. 145. 
Conrad, T. A. Check-list of fossils— eocene and oligocene. No. 200. 
Meek, F. B. Check-list of fossils — miocene. No. 183. 
Meek, F. B. Check-list of lo.ssils— cretaceous and Jurassic. No. 177. 
Egleston, T. Catalogue of minerals. No. 156. 
GiBBS, G. Dictionary of Chinook jargon. No. 161. 

GiBBS, G. Instructions for ethnological and philological research. No. 160. 
List of works published by the Smithsonian Institution to January, 186S. 

No. 203. 

192. Cretaceous Eeptiles of the United States. By Joseph Leidy. 

May, 1865. 4to., pp. 142, 35 wood-cuts, 20 plates of 309 figures. 

(S. C, XIV.) 

193. Duplicate Shells Collected by the United States p]xploring Expe- 

dition under Caj^tain C. Wilkes. 8vo., pp. 4. 



522 CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 

194. Land and Fresh-water Shells of North America. Part I. Pnhuo 

nata geophila. By W. G. Binney and T. Bland. February, 
1869. 8vo., pp. 328, 723 wood-cuts. (M. C, vin.) 

195. Discussion of the Magnetic and Meteorological Observations made 

at the Girard College Observatory, Philadelphia, in 1840, 1841. 
1842, 1843, 1844, and 1845. Parts I to XII inclusive. (^Nos. 
IIS'^', 12P'", 132^'", ia2'^"%175^'^, 180-^"'.) 4lo., pp. 202, 40 wood- 
cuts. 

196. Physical Observations in the Arctic Seas. By Isaac I. Hayes. 

Reduced and discussed by Charles A. Schott. Juue, 1867. 4to., 
pp. 280, 15 wood-cuts, 3 maps, 3 plates. (S. C, xv.) 

197. On the Fresh-water Glacial Drift of the Northwestern States. By 

Charles Whittlesey. May, 1800. 4to., pp. 38, 14 wood-cuts, 
1 map, 1 plate. (S. C, xv.) 

198. Physical Observations in the Arctic Seas. By Elisha Kent 

Kane. Made during the Second Grinnel Expedition in Search 
of Sir John Franklin, in 1853, 1854, and 1855, at Tan Eensselear 
Harbor and other points on the West coast of Greenland. Re- 
duced and discussed by Charles A. Schott. PartL Magnetism. 
11. Meteorology, in. Astronomy, iv. Tides. (Nos. 97-^104'^', 
129^^", 130^"^) 1859-'e0. 4to , pp. 340, 17 wood-cuts, 1 map, 
plates. 

199. An investigation of the Orbit of Neptune, with General Tables of 

its Motion. By Simon Newcomb. Jjinuary, 1800. 4to., pp. 
116. (S. C, XV.) 

200. Check-list of the Invertebrate Fossils of North America Eocene 

and Oligocene. By T. A. Conrad. May, 1800. 8vo., pp. 46. 
(M. C, vn.) 

201. Researches upon the HydrobiiujB and Allied Forms; chiefly made 

upon materials in the Museum of the Smithsonian Institution. 
By WiLLiAJM Stimpson. August, 1805. 8vo., pp. 64,32 wood- 
cuts. (M. C, vn.) 

202. Geological Researches in China, Mongolia, and Japan, during the 

years 1802 to 1805. By Raphael Pumpelly. August, 1800. 
4to, pp. 173, 18 wood-cuts, 3 i)lates of 10 figures, plates of 15 
maps. (S. C, XV.) 

203. List of Works published by the Smithsonian Institution. Janu 

ary, 1866. 8vo., pp. 12. (M. C, vn.) 

204. Results of Meteorological Observations made at Brunswick, Me., 

between 1807 and 1859. By Parker Cleaveland. Reduced 
and discussed by Charles A. Schott. May, J.807. 4to., pp. CO, 
8 wood-cuts. (S. C, XVI.) 

205. Circular Relating to Collections in Archjieology and Ethnology. 

By Joseph Henry. January, 1867. 8vo., pp. 2. (M. C, vin.) 



CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 523 

206. SmiMisoiiiau Contributions to Knowledge. Vol. xv. 18('.7. 4to., 

l)p. G20, 47 wood cuts, 13 plates, 4 maps. 

CONTENTS. 

NrwCOMB, S. Orl)it of Noptauo. No. 199. 

WiUTTLESKY, C. Frcsh-wator ghicial drift of Nortlnvostoin States. No. 

197. 
PUMI'ELLY, R. Geological rescarcbes in China, Mongol i;t, ami Japan. No. 

202. 
ITayks, I. I. Physical observations in the Arctic Seas. No. l'.)t). 

207. Sni,^gostions Relative to Objects of" Scientific Investigation in Kns- 

sian America. By Joseph Henry. May, 18G7. 8vo., pi). 10. 
(M. 0., viTi.) 

208. The Gliddou Mummy Case in the Museum of the Smithsonian In- 

stitution. By Charles Pickering, June, 18G7. 4to., pp. ('», 
1 plate. (S. C, XVI.) 

209. Annual Report of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Insti- 

tution, for the year 1865, Thirty-ninth Congress, first session. 
House of Representatives l\Iis. Doc. 102, 180G, 8vo., pp, 41)0, 
139 wood-cuts. 

CONTENTS. 

Henry, J. Secretary's report of operations. 
Board op Regents. Proceedings of. 

Baird, S. F. Report of publications, exchanges, lunscnni, and explora- 
tions. 
List of addresses of foreign institutions since 1862. 
List of meteorological stations and observers. 
List of meteorological material contributed. 
Correspondence : 

Henry, J. Letter to Secretary of Treasury on payment of interest in 
coin. 

Leidy, J.; Tryon, G. W. Report on shells presented to Academy of 
Natural Sciences. 
, Mexica^t Soc. of Gkog. and Statistics. Exchange system. 

Evans, J. Climate of Colorado. 

Given, W. F. Remarkable electric phenomenon. 

Haxe, C. Explorations of the Nile. 

Mining Department, Melbourne. Exchange system. 

Carleton, J. H. Meteorites in Mexico. 

Conrad, T. A. Chalk found in United States. 

Regents op University op State of New Youk. Acknowledgment 
for specimens. 

McMasters, S. Y, Language of Navajos said to resemble the Welsh. 

Gibbs, G. Indian languages. 

LiSBOA, M. M. Books on Brazil presented. 

Brazilian Nat. Hist. Museum. Specimens from Brazil presented. 

Bern Museum. Request for Bison. 

Imperial Library op Vienna. Books presented. 

Bruce, F. W. A., British Minister. Introducing and recommending 
Dr. Berendt. 



624 CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIENS. 

Correspondence — Continued. 

De Ikisakri, A. T., Guatemalan Minister, Introducing and recom- 
mending Dr. Berendt. 

Molina, L., Costa Kican Minister. Introducing and recommending 
Dr. Berendt. 

KosiNG, J. Exchange system. 

Government of Bremen. Exchange system. 

HoDGiNS, J. G. Meteorological system of Canada. 

British Mcseum. Acknowledgment of specimens. 

Toronto University. Objects of the Museum. 

Petitot, E. Account of the Indians of British America. 
Act of Congress to transfer Smithsonian Library to Library of Congress. 
Barnard, J. G. Eulogy on General Joseph G. Totten. 
Flourens, M. Memoir of Ducrotay de Blaiuville. 
Ciiossat, Dr. Keport on the transactions of the Society of Physics and 

Natural Historj' of Geneva, from July, 1863, to June, 1864. 
Plantamour, M. E. Eeport on the transactions of the Society of Physics 

and Natural History of Geneva, from July, 1864, to June, 186.5. 
LooMis, E. Aurora Borealis, or Polar Light ; its phenomena and laws. 
The Senses. Sense of feeling; sense of smell. 
Matteucci, C. Lectures on electro-physiology. 

Desor, E. PalafittesorLacustrian constructions of the Lake of Neuchatel. 
Plateau, J. Experimental and theoretical researches on the figures of 

equilibrium of a liquid mass withdrawn from the action of gravity, 

etc. Part V. 
LiLLJEBORG, \V. Outline of a systematic review of the classification of 

birds. 
Prize Questions: 

Eoyal Danish Society of Sciences. 

Imperial Academy of Sciences of Vienna. 

Pontifical Academy of the Nuovi Lincei. 

Royal Scientific and Literary Institute of Lombardy. 

Imperial Society of Science, Agriculture, and Arts of Lille. 

Dunkirk Society for the encouragement of sciences, letters, and arts. 
Newton, H. A. Metric system of weights and measures, with tables. 

210. Arrangement of Families of Birds, adopted provisionally by the 

Smithsonian Institution. By S. F. Baird. June", 18GG. 8vo., 
pp. 8. (M. C, VIII.) 

211. Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge. Vol. XVL 1870. 4to., 

pp. 498, 7G wood-cuts, 18 plates. 

CONTENTS. 

Dean, J. Gray substance of the medulla oblongata and trapezium. No. 

173. 
Cleaveland, p. Meteorological observations, Brunswick, Me., 53 years. 

No. 204. 
Hildretii, S. p. Meteorological observations. Marietta, Ohio. No. 120. 
Pickering, C. Gliddon mummy case. No. 208. 

Coffin, J. II. Orbit and phenomena of a meteoric fire ball. No. 221. 
Gould, B. A. Transatlantic longitude. No. 223. 
Swan, J. G. Indians of Cape Flattery. No. 220. 



CATALOGUE OF TUBLICATIONS. 525 

212. Smitlisonian IMiscellaiioous Collections. Vol. Yiii. 1809. 8vo., 

pp. 021, 730 wood-cuts, 4 i)lates. 

CONTKNTS. 

OsTEN Sack EN, E. Monograph of tho diptera of North America. Part 

IV. No, 2VJ. 
SCUDDER, S. II. Catalogue of the orthoptera of North America. No. 18'J. 
BiNNEY, W. G. ; Bland, T. Land and fresh-water nh(!l!s of Nortli America. 

Part I. No. 194. 
Baiud, S. V. Arrangement of families of birds. No. 210. 
Hknry, J. Circular to officers of the Hudson's Bay Company. No. i;57. 
Henky, J.; GiBBS, G. ; Baiud, S. F. Suggestions rehitive to scientilic 

investigations in Russian America, No. 2U7. 
Henry, J. Circular relative to archfcology and ethnology. No. 20.'). 
Henry, J. Circular to entomologists. No. 178. 
Henry, J. Circular relative to collections of birds from Middle and South 

America. No. 168. 
BairD, S. F. Smithsonian Museum miscellanea. No. 1G4. 

213. Sinitlisouiau Miscellaneous Collections. Vol. ix. 18G1). 8vo., pp. 

914. 

contents. 

BiNNEY, W. G. Bibliography of North American conchology. Foreign 

authors. Part II. No. 174. 
Catalogue of publications of societies and of periodicals in Smithsonian 

Library, 1866. No. 179. 

214. Annual lleport of the Board of Eegents of the Sniitlisoniiin Itisti- 

tution, for the year 180G. Thirty-ninth Congress, second session, 
House of Kepresentatives, Mis. Uoc. No. 83. 1867. 8vo., pp. 
470, 70 wood-cuts. 

CONTENTS. 

Henry, J. Secretary's report of operations. 

Board of Regents. Proceedings of. 

Baird, S. F. Report on publications, exch.'Miges, museum, and esplora. 
tions. 

List of meteorological stations and observers. 

Act of Congress to receive into the United States Treasury the residuary 
legacy of Smithson, etc. 

Memorial of Board of Regents to Congress relative to the fund. 

Henry, J. Memoir of W. W. Seaton. 

Report on system of accounts. 

Flourens, M. Memoir of Magendie. 

The Senses. Sense of taste ; sense of hearing ; seuse of sight. 

HUGGINS, W. Results of spectrum analysis applied to the heavenly bodies. 

External appearance of the sun's disk. 

MciGNO, Abbe. Accidental or subjective colors: Persistence of images, 
contrast, irradiation, daltonism, etc. 

Plateau, J. Figures of equilibrium of a liquid liiass withdrawn from the 
action of gravity. Part VI. 

GosSE, Dr. Report on the transactions of the Society of Physics and Natu- 
ral History of Geneva, from July, 186.">, to June, 1866. 



526 CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 

Gibus, G. Notes ou the Tiuneh of Chepewyau Indians of British and Rus- 
sian America. 1. The Eastern Tinueh, by Bernard K. IJobS, esq. 2. 

The Loucheux Indians, by William L. Ilardisty. 3. The Kutchin 

Tribes, by Strachau Jones, esq. 
Von Hellwald, F. The American migration, with notes by Professor 

Henry. 
Kau, C. Indian pottery. 

BuiNTON, D. G. Artificial shell deposits of the United States. 
DiLLE, I. Sketch of ancient earth- works of Ohio. 
Pile-work antiquities of Olniutz. 
EsTES, L. C. Antiquities on the banks of the Mississippi River and Lake 

Pepin. 
GiBBS, G. Physical Atlas of North America. 
Davis, E. H. On ethnological research. 

Scherzer; Schwarz. Table of anthropological measurements. 
International Archaeological Congress, organized by the Archa-ological 

Academy of Belgium, in concert with the French Society of Archuiology. 

Antwerp, 1866. 
HiGGiNS, H. H. On vitality, with notes by Professor Henry, 
Lewis, J. Instructions for collecting land and fresh-water shells. 
Wood, H. C. Instructions for collecting myriapods, phalangidaj, etc. 
Wktiieeill, C. M. Plan of a research upon the atmosphere. 
IjEWIS ; Quale. Account of the cryolite of Greenland. 
Extracts from the Meteorological Correspondence of the Insti- 
tution : 

Henry, J. Remarks by. 

Dennis, W, C. Evaporation in Florida. 

Dennis, W, C. Fresh-water in the ocean. 

Dewey, C. The winds. 

Baltzell, J. Winds in Florida. 

Ward, L. F. Barometer tube breaking suddenly. 

Andrews, S. L. Meteors. 

Balfour, J. The wind and fog. 

Huntington, G. C. Climate of Kelley's Island, Ohio. 

Mallinikroot, C. Changes of wind. 

Capen, F. L. Meteorological discovery. 

Fendler, a. Meteorology of Colonia Tovar. 

Hillier, S. L. Effect of lightning. • 

Bannister, H. M. Formation of clouds over Gulf stream. 

Bannister, H. M. Climate of Alaska. 
Vaillant, M. Horary variations of the barometer, with notes by Pro. 

lessor Henry. 
Engeliiardt, M. Formation of ice at the bottom of water. 
Sartorius, C. Earthquake in Eastern Mexico, January, 1866. 
Dreutzer, O. E. Statistics relative to Norwegian mountains, lakes, aud 

the snow-line. 

215. Annual Ecport of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian In- 
stitution for the year 18G7. Fortieth Congress, second session, Senate 
Mis. Doc. No. 80. 18G8. 8vo., pp. 506, 10 wood-cuts. 

contents. 

Henry, J. Secretary's report of operations. 

Board of Regents. Proceedings of. 

Baird, S. F. Report of exchanges and museum. 



CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 527 

Baiud, S. F. List of expeditions and other sources from wliicli the si)eci- 

mens la the Government Museum have been mainly derived. 
List of meteorological stations and observers. 

Meterological material contributed in addition to the regular ob.servaLions. 
Cluss, A. Keport of the architect. 
Correspondence : 

Amer. Acad, of Arts and Sciences. Exchange system. 

Knight, G. H. New system of weights and measures witli 8 as the 
metrical number. 

BOLLES, E. C. Account of Portland Society of Natural History. 

Bath and West of Eng. Soc. for Encour. of Agric, Arts., etc. 
Exchange system. 

Hamburg Zool. Gardens. Exchange of specimens. 

Chicago Acad, of Sciences. Acknowledgment for specimens. 

Taylor, W. B. Report on improved system of numeration. 

St. Petersburg Acad, of Sciences. Exchange system. 

ZiSGENCALS, H. Schlagintweit ethnographic collection, 

Lloyd, W. A. Sparrows sent to United States. 

Lloyd, W. A. Exchange of specimens. 

Museum of Nat. Univ. of Greece. Exchange of specimens. 

Laboulaye, E. Acknowledgment for books on education. 

Acad, of Sciences, Stockholm. Acknowledgment of birds. 

Gould, J. Acknowledgment of birds. 

Mayi?e:rry, S. P. Gradual api>roach of sea upon land. 

University of Costa Rica. Exchange of specimens. 
Guild, R. A. Biographical notice of Charles C. Jewett. 
Gray, A. Biographical notice of W. H. Harvey. 
Agassiz, L. Report on use of new hall Smithsonian Building. 
Memorial of Regents to Congress asking appropriations for Museum. 
DeBeaujiont, E. Memoir of A. M. Legendre. 
Peltier, F. A. Memoir of J. C. A. Peltier. 

Scientific researches of Peltier. 
Mailly, E. History of Royal Institution of Great Britain. 
De La Rive, Prof. A. A. Michael Faraday, his life and Avorks. 
Flourens, M. The Jussieus and the natural method. 
Marey, E. J. Natural history of organized bodies. 
Matteucci, C. On the electrical currents of the earth. 

Considerations on electricity. 
Electricity — Account of lightning discharges, with notes by Professor 

Henry, G. W. Dodge, O. M. Poe, J. C. Cresson, H. Haas, H. J. Kron, B. F. 

Mudge, New Haven Journal, S. D. Martin, G. Wright, C. G. Boeruer, W. 

S. Gilmau, C. W. Dean, J. A. Osborne. 
Darwin, C. Queries about expression for authrojiological inquiry. 
Pettigrew, J. B. Modes of flight in relation to aeronautics. 
Man as the coutemporarj^ of the mammoth and reindeer in Middle Europe. 
Jamin, J. Photo- chemistry. 

Abbe, C. Description of the observatories at Dorpat and Poulkova. 
Tyler, E. B. On traces of the early mental condition of man. 
Ethnology : 

GUNN, D. Indian remains. Red River Settlement, Hudson's Buy Ter- 
ritory. 

Read, M. C. Ancient mound near Chattanooga, Teun. 

Pidgeon, W. Ancient burial mound in Indiana. 

Bkuthoud, E. L. Ancient remains in Colorado. 

Agnew, S. A. Mounds in Mississippi. 



528 CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 

Ethnology— Continued. 

Whitney, J. D. Cave in Calaveras County, Cal. 

Ethnological Department of the French Exposition, 1867. 

Hayden, F. V. Notes on Indian history. 

Meigs, J. A. Description of a human skull from Rock Bluff, 111. 

Kabis, M. Introduction to the study of the Coptic language. 

Smart, C. Notes on the Touto Apaches. 
Berendt, C. H. Explorations in Central America. 

GUNN, D. Notes of an egging expedition to Shoal Lake, Lake Winnipeg. 
EOTHROCK, J. T. Sketch of the flora of Alaska. 
Meteorology : 

Hurricane in the island of St. Thomas. 

Latimer, G. A. Earthquakes in St. Thomas. 

Maritime disasters of the Antilles. 

Dickinson, A. B. Eruption of a volcano in Nicaragua. 

Young, W. J. Cloud-bursts. 

Woodwortii, a. Meteorite in Mexico. 

SiMSON, R. Meteorite in Mexico. 

Ernst, G. A. Meteorology of Caracas, South America. 

TuCKETT, F. F. On barometer tables. 

Latimer, G. A. Great hurricane at Tortola, St. Thomas, and Porto 
Rico. 

Pike, N. Cyclone in the Indian Ocean. 
Prize Questions: 

Royal Danish Society of Sciences. 

Pontifical Academy of the Niiovo Lincei. 
De La Rue, W. Abbreviations used in England in ISW. 

218. List of Photograpliic Portraits of jSTortli American Indians in tin' 
Gallery of the Smithsonian Institution. 1867. 8vo., pp. 41}. (.M. 
C, XIV. 

217. Letter by M. Hoek in reference to the Meteoric Shower of Novem- 

ber 13, 18G7. 8vo., pp. 4. 

218. Systems of Consanguinity and Affinity of the Human Family. By 

Lewis H. Morgan. 18G9, 4to., pp. 610^ 6 wood-cuts, 14 plates. 
(S. C, xvn.) 

219. Monographs of the Diptcra of North America. By R. Osten 

Sacken. Part IV. 18G9. 8vo., pp. 358, 7 wood cuts, 4 plates 
of 92 figures. (M. 0., vm.) 

220. The Indians of Cape Flattery, at the entrance to the Strait of Fuca, 

Washington Territory. By James G. Swan. March, 1870. 4to., 
pp. 118, 44 wood-cuts. (S, C, xvi.) 

221. The Orbit and Phenomena of a Meteoric Fire Ball, seen July 20, 

18G0. By James H. Coffin. May, 18G9.. pp. 5G, 3 wood-cuts. 
1 map. (S. C, XVI.) 

222. Tables and Eesults of the Precipitation, in Rain and Snow, in the 

United States, and at some stations in adjacent parts of North 
America, and in Central and Santh America. By Charles A* 
SCHOTT. March, 1872. 4to., pp. 178, 8 woodcuts, 5 plates, and 
3 double charts. (S. C, xviii.) 



CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 529 

223. The Trausatlantic Longitude, as deterinined by the Coast Survey 

Expedition of LSGC. By Benjamin APTiiORP GouLD. October, 
1SU9. 4to., i)}). 110, 2 woodcuts. (S. C, xvi.) 

224. Annual Report of the Board of Ivegents of the Smithsonian Insti- 

tution, lor the year 1808. Fortieth Congress, third session. 
House of Representatives, Ex. Doc. Xo. 83. 1861). 8vo., pp. 474, 
40 wood-cuts. 

CONTEXTS. 

Henry, J. Secrchiry's report of operations. 

BoAitD OF Regents, Proceeiliiijjs of. 

List of meteorological stations and observers. 

List of meteorological material contril)ated to Smithsonian Institution. 

Delafield, K. Report of Committee of Regents on Washington Canal. 

Flourens, M. Memoir of Cuvier. 

Flourens, M. Hi8tor3- of the works of Cuvier. 

De Beaumont, E. Memoir of H. C. Oersted. 

Notice of Christian Frederic Scha;nbein, the discoverer of czoue. 

Henry, J. Appendix to notice of Schoeubeiu. 

Hagen, G. Memoir of Encke. 

Rawson, K. Memoir of Eaton Hodgkinson. 

Cazin, a. Recent jirogress in relation to the theory of heat. 

MuLLER, J. Principles of the mechanical theory of heat. 

Magrini, L. Continuous vibratory movement of all nuitter, ponderable 

and imponderable. 
Tyndall, J. Radiation. 

DACiiKEE, G. A. Synthetic experiments relative to metecnites. 
Brush, G. J. Catalogue of meteorites in the miueralogical collection of 

Yale College. 
De Saussure, II. Observations on the electric resonance of mountains. 
Stewart, B. Experiments on aneroid barometers made at ;he Kew Ob- 
servatory. 
Ellery, R. L. J. Address of the president of the Royal Society of Victoria. 
Wartman, E; Report on the transactions of the Society of Pliysics and 

Natural History of Geneva, from July, 181)7, to June, lc08. 
Bkoca, p. History of the transactions of the Anthropological Society of 

PariSj froui lH(i.5 to 1867. 
Rau, C. Drilling in stone without metal. 
Rau, C. Agricultural flint implements in southern Illinois. 
Notice of the Blackmore Museum, Salisbury, England. 
Prize Questions : 

Holland Society of Sciences of Harlem. 

Imperial Academy of Sciences, Belles Lettres, and Arts, of Bordeaux. 
Pollock, J. Assay of gold and silver coins at the Mint of the United 

States. 
Table of foreign gold and silver coins. 

List of publications of the Smithsonian Institution up to July, 185*.), with 
systematic and alphabetical index. 

225. List of Foreign Correspondents of the Smithsonian Institution ; 

corrected to January, 1S70. April, 1870. 8vo., pp. 50. 

226. xV List of the Smithsonian Publications, from 184G to 18G9. l!fo. 

vember, 1869. 8vo., pp. 34. 
H, Mis, 1 70 — -34 



530 CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 

227. Arraugement of the Families of Mollusks. By Theodore Gill. 

February, 1871. 8vo., fp. 05. (M. C, x.) 

228. Amiual Eeport of the Board of Kegents of the Smithsonian In- 

stitution, for the year 18(J;>. Forty-firstCongress, third session. 
House of Representatives, Ex. Doc. No. 153. 1871. Svo., pp. 
430, 38 woodcuts, 1 map. 

CONTENTS. 

Henry, J. SL'(;it!t;u\v'8 report of operations. 

Board of Regents, Proceedings of. 

List of meteorological stations and observers. 

List ofmeteoroloi^ical material contributed to Smithsonian Institution. 

Berthrand, M. Kepler : his life and works. 

AuAGO, M. Eulogy on Thomas Young. 

De Beaumont, E. Memoir of Auguste Bravais. 

Rau, C. Memoir of C. F. P. Von Martins. 

Mateucci, C. Life and scientific labors of Stefano Mariauini. 

Hunt, T. S. Chemistry of the earth. 

Matteucci, C. Electrical currents of the earth. 

Marey E. J. Phenomena of flight in the animal kingdom. 

Cabinet, J. The northern seas. 

Lombard, H. C. Report on the transactions of the Society of Physics and 

of Natural History of Geneva, July, 1808, to June, 1869. 
Simpson, J. II. Coronado's march in search of the "Seven Cities of 

Cibola." 
Lubbock, J. Social and religious condition of the lower races of man. 
Huxley, T. H. Principles and methods of paheontologj-. 
ScHOTT, A. Remarks on the " Cara Gigantesca" of Yzamal, in Yucatan. 
Becquerel, a. E. Forests and their climatic influence. 
Brenndecke, F. Meteorites. 

Abich, S. Remarkable forms of hail-stones in Georgia. 
Sartorius, C. Eruption of the volcano of Colima. 

229. Smitlisoniau Contributions to Knowledge. Vol. xvii. 1871. 

4to., pp. 61G, G wood-cuts, 14 plates. 

CONTENTS. 

Morgan. Systems of consauguinitj' and affinity of the human fiimily. 

^^ . ..6. 

230. Arraugement of the Families of Mammals. By Theodore Gill. 

^S^ovember, 1872. 8vo., pp. 101. (M. C. xi.) 

231. Memoranda of Inquiry relative to the Food Fishes of the United 

States. By S. F. Baird. 1871. 8vo., pp. 8. (M. (J., x.) 

232. The Secular Variations of the Elements of the Orbits of the Eight 

Principal Planets, Mercury, Venus, the Earth, Mars, Juipter, 
Saturn, Uranus, and jSTeptune, with tables of the same; together 
with the obliquity of the ecliptic and the precession of the equi- 
noxes in both longitude and right ascension. By .John N. 
Stockwell. 1872. 4to., pp. 220. (S. C, xvin.) 

233. Converging Series expressing the Eatio between the Diameter and 

the Circumference of a Circle. By William Ferrel. April, 
1871. 4to., pp. G. (S. C, xviiL) 



CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 531 

834. Questions Relative to tlie Food Fishes of the United States. By 
S. F. BaiIvD. ISTl. 8vo., pp. 14. (M. C, x.) 

235. lustructious for Observations of Thunder Storms. By Joseph 

Henry. 1871. 8vo., p. 1. (M. C, x.) 

236. Circular lielative to Heights. By Joseph Henuy. 1871. 8vo., 

pp.2. (M. C.,x.) 

237. Directions for constructing- Lightning Rods. By Joseph Henry. 

1871. 8vo., pp. 4. (x^I. C, X.) 

238. LivSt of the Institutions, Libraries, Colleges, and other Establish- 

ments in the United States in correspondence witli the Smith- 
sonian Institution. By William J. Rhees. July, 1872. 8vo., 
])p. 250. (M. C , X.) 

239. Observations on Terrestrial Magnetism, and on the Deviations of 

the Compasses of the United States Iron Clad Monadnock dur. 
ing; her cruise from Philadelphia to San Francisco, in LSG5 and 
18GG. By William Harkness. 1872. 4to , i)p. 22(», 2 wood- 
cuts. (S. C, XVIII.) 

240. Problems of Rotary Motion presented by the Gyroscope, The Pre- 

cession of the Equinoxes, and The Pendulum. By J. G. Bar- 
nard. 1872. 4to., pp. 5G, G wood-cuts. (S. C, xix.) 

24L A Contribution to the History of the Fresh Water Alg:e of North 
America. By HoRATio C. Wood, Jr. 1872. 4to., pp. 272, 21 
plates of 340 ligures. (S. C, xix.) 

242. Lucernaria^, and their Allies. A Memoir on the Anatomy and 

Physiology of Haliclystus Auricula and other Lucernarians, with 
a Discussion of their Relations to other Acalephte, to Beroids 
. and Polypi. By H. J. Clark. 1878. 4to., p[). 138, 11 plates 
of 149 figures. (S. C, xxii.) 

243. List of Foreign Correspondents of the Smithsonian Institution ; 

corrected to January, 1872. 1872. 8vo., pp. 06. (M. C, x.) 

244. Annual Report of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Insti- 

tution, for the year 1870. Forty-secoTid Congress, first session. 
House of Representatives, Ex. Doc. No. 20. 1871. 8vo., pp. 
494, 23 wood-cuts. 

COXTENTS. 

Henry, J. Secretary's report of operatious. 

Board of Eegents. Proccetliugs of. 

List of meteorological stations and observers. 

List of meteorological material contributed to Smithsonian Institution. 

Henry, J. Eulogy on Alexander Dallas Baclie. 

Bache, a. D. Lecture on Switzerland. 

Henry, J. On a physical observatory. 



532 CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 

Arago, F. The History of uiy Youth, an autobiography. 

Arago, F. Eulogy ou Herschel. 

Life aud labors of Henry Gustavus Magnus. 

Anderson, M. B. Life of Prof. Chester Dewey. 

Taylor, W. B. Thoughts on the nature and origin of force. 

Von Liebig, J. luduction and deduction. 

Haughton, S. Relation of food to work, and its bearing ou medical 

practice. 
Reynolds, J. E. Hydrogen as gas and as a metal. 
Wlseman, N. Identification of the artisan and artist. 
Babinet, .1. The diamond and other precious stones. 
Ethnology: 

GiBBS, G. On the language of the aboriginal Indians of America. 
Williams, H. C. On antiquities in some of the Southern States. 
Gardner, W. H. Ethnology of the Indians of the valley of the 

Red River of the Nortli. 
FixCK, H. Account of antiquities in the State of Vera Cruz, Mexico. 
Dunning, E. O. Account of antiquities in Tennessee. 
Stephenson, M. F. Account of ancient mounds in Georgia. 
Dayton, E. A. Explorations iu Tennessee. 

Haewood, A. A. Account of the sarcophagus in the National Mu- 
seum, now in charge of the Smitlisouian Institution. 
Grant, E. M. Account of the discovery of a stone image in Tennes- 
see, now.iu possession of the Smithsonian Institution. 
Blyden, E. D. On mixed races in Liberia. 
Fowler, J. On shell-heaps. 
Peale, T. R. Ou the uses of the brain and ujarrow of animals among 

the Indians of North America. 
Lyon, S. S. Report of an exploration of ancient mounds in Uuiou 

County, Ky. 
Barrandt, A. Sketch of ancient earthworks ou the Upper Missouri. 
Steele, J. P. Account of aboriginal ruins at Savannah, Tenn. 
Steele, J. P. Account of aborigiual ruius in Hardin County, Tenn. 
Terrestrial Physics : 

Campbell, J. V. The earthquake in Peru, August 13, 1868. 

Palmieri, Professor. The electro-magnetic .seismograph. 

Johnson, W. W. On the distributiou of forest trees in Montana, 

Idaho, and Washington. 
Sargent, W. D. Inlluence of the aurora on the telegraph. 
Meteorology : 

Poky, A. New classification of clouds. 

Tacchini, p. On the evaporation observed at Palermo, in l.'^G5 and 

186(5. 
Zantedeschi, F. Ou the electricity of induction in the ;«rial strat.i 
of the atmosphere, which, iu the shape of a ring, surround a cloud 
that is resolving into rain, snow, or bail. 
Palmieri, Professor. On the presence of electricity during the fall of 

rain. 
Elliott, R. S. Climate of Kansas. 

Porter, Commodore. Account of a hailstorm on the Bosphorus. 
Bache, G. M. Account of a hail-storm in Texas. 

245. Check List of Publications of the Smithsonian Institution to July, 

1S72. 1872. 8vo., pp. 21. (M. C, x.) 



CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 5oo 

246. Sniitbsouiau Contriiiutioiis to Knowledji'c. Vol. xviii. 1872. 

4to,, pp. G4(), 10 woodcuts, 5 plates, 3 cliails. 

CONTKNTS. 

SciiOTT, C. A. Tables of rain ami snow. No. •^22. 

Stock WELL, J. N. Si cnlar variations of tlie orbits of planets. No. 232. 
IIaukness, W. Observations ou terrestrial magnetism. No. 2)59. 
Fkurel, W. Converging series, expressing the ratio between the diameter 
and the circumference of a circle. No. 23:5. 

247. Anaiigemeiit of the l^ainilios of Fishes, or Classes Pisces, Mar- 

sipobraiichii, and Leptocanlii. Ij.v Theodore Gill. Novem- 
ber, 1872. 8vo., pp. 1)0. (M. C, xr ) 

248. On the Geolog:y of Lov.er Louisiana and the Salt Deposit on Petite 

Anse Island. By Eugene W. Hilgaed. June, 1S72. 4to., 
pp. 38, 4 wood cuts, 2 plates. (S. C, xxiii.) 

249. Annual ['eport of the Board of Ixe.uents of the Smithsonian Insti- 

lution,l'()r the year 1871. Forty-second Congress, first session. 
Senate Mis. Doc. Xo. 140. LS7;>, 8vo., pp. 473, 3 wood cuts. 

COXTKN'iS. 

Henry, J. Secretary's report of operations. 

Board ok Regents, Proceedings of. 

List of meteorological stations and observers. 

Meteorological material contributed to Smithsonian lustitntiou. 

Meteorological articles received by the Institution and deposited in the 

Library of Congress. Auroras, earthquakes, etc. 
Dodge, N. S. Memoir of Sir John Frederick William Herschcl. 
Ahago, it. Eulogy on Joseph Fourier. 
Odling, W. Prof. Thomas Graham's scientific work. 
Helaiiioltz, II. On the relation of the physical sciences to science in 

general. 
KoRNiiUBER, G. A. Alternate generation and parthenogenesis in the ani- 
mal l.iugdom. 
Reichai:dt, W. Present state of our knowledge of cryptogamous plants. 
Stockwell, J. N. Iveceut researches on the secular variations of the plan- 
etary orbits. 
De Forest, E. L. Methods of interpolation applicable to the graduation 

of irregular series, such as tables of mortality. Part t. 
De Sal'ssuue, II. Report on the transactions of the Society of Physicg 

and Natural History of Geneva, from July, ISTO, to June, 1871. 
Expedition toward the North Pole: 

Henry, J.; Hilgard, J. E. ; Newcomu, S. ; Baird, S. F. ; Meek, F. 
B. ; Agassi/,, L. Scientitic instructions to Captain Hall. 
Ethnology: 

Comfort, A. J. Indian mounds near Fort \Vadsworth, Dak. 

Berthoud, E. L. Antiquities oa the Cache la Poudre River, Vv''eld 
County, Cob)rado Territory. 

Lyon, W. B. Anti(iuities in New Mexico. 

Spainiioir, J. M. Antiquities in Lenoir County, N. C. 

McCoNNELL, E. M. Account of the old Indian village, Kushkusli- 
kee, near New Castle, Pa. 

Grossmann, F. E. Pima Indians o^' Arizona. 



534 CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 

Ethnology — Coutinned. 

Crook, G. ludiau mode of making arrow-heads aud obtaining fire. 

Peter, R. Ancient mound near Lexington, Ky. 

Browx, D. Shell-lieap in Georgia. 

ScHOTT, A. Eeuiarks on ancient relic of Maya sculpture. 

Much, M. Ancient history of North America. 

KaciiRiG, F. L. O. On the language of the Dakota or Sioux Indians. 
Meteorology, with notes by Professor Henry : 

Latimer, G. Meteorology of Porto Rico. 

CoLLixs, Colonel. Meteorology of the Green River country. 

Lamarck, J. B. Distinction between tornadoes and tempests. 

Meek, J. B. Account of a tornado which occurred in Spruce Creek 
Valley, Centre County, Pa. 

Henry, J. Effect of the moon on the weather. 

Knigut, R. T. ; Henry J. Connection of gales of wind and appear- 
ance of the aurora. 

Harrison, W. Account of a storm in Butler County, Kans., June 23, 
1871. 

250. Sniithsoniau MiscellaDeous Collections. Vol. x. 1873. 8vo., pp. 

913, 5 wood-cuts. 

contents. 

Carpenter, P. P. Mollusksof Western North America. No. 252. 

Gill, T. Arrangement of the family of mollusks. No. 227. 

Henry, J. Instructions for observations of thunder storms. No. 2;3r). 

Henry, J. Circular relative to heights. No. 236. 

Henry, J. Directions for constructing lightning rods. No. 237. 

Henry, J. Queries relative to tornadoes. No. 190. 

Baird, S. F. Questions relative to the food-fishes of the United States. 

No. 234. 
Baird, S. F. Memoranda of inquiry relative to food-fishes. No. 234. 
RilEES, W. J. List of institutions, etc., in the United States in correspond- 
ence with the Smithsonian Institution. No. 238. 
List of foreign correspondents of the Smithsonian Institution, for ] 872. No, 

243. 
Check li-st of publications of the Smithsonian Institution, 1872. No. 245, 

251. Memoir of C. F. P. Von Martins. By C. Eau. 1871. 8vo., i)p. 12. 

252. The uiollusks of Western JS'orth America. By P. P. Carpenter. 

December, 1872. 8vo., pp. 446, 4 wood cuts. (M. C, s.) 

CONTENTS. 

Supplementary report on the present state of our knowledge with regard 

to the molhisca of the west coast of North America. 
Review of Prof. C. B. Adams's "Catalogue of the Shells of Panama," from 

the type specimens. 
Diagnoses of new forms of mollusks collected at Cape St. Lucas, Lower 

California. 
Contributions towards a monograph of the pandorida>. 
Diagnoses of new forms of mollusca from the Vancouver district. 
Diagnoses of new species and a new genus of mollusks, from the Reigen 

Mazatlan collection ; with an account of additional specimens presented 

to the British Museum. 
Descriptions of new species and varieties of chitonidaj and acmajida), from 

the Panama collection of the late Prof.C. B. Adams. 



CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 535 

Diaguoses oC now si)ocies of niollusks i'nmi tlic. west tropic.il rcj^ion oC 

North Aiiiericii. 
Diagnoses of new forms of niollusca from the west coast of North America, 

first collected by Col. E.Jewett. 
Diagnoses of new forms of niollusca, collected by Col. E. Jewett, on the 

west tropical shores of North America. 
Diagnoses des moIlus(iues nouveaux provcnant de Californie et faisant 

])artio du Musde do I'lustitntion Smithsonienue. 
On the pleistocene fossils collected by Col, E. Jewelt, at Santa IJurbara, 

California; with descriptions of new species. 

253. Land and Fresb-water Shells of Nortb America. Part iv. Strepo- 

iiiatidie (American Melauians). By George W. Tkyon, Jr. 
December, 1873. 8vo., pp. 490, 871 wood cuts. (M. C, xvi.) 

254. Synopsis of American Wasps. Solitary Wasps. By Henry Be 

Saussure. December, 1875. 8vo., pp. 430, 4 plates of 31 lig- 
ures. (M. C, Xiv.) 

255. Tbe Constants of Nature. Parti. Specific Gravities, Boiling;' and 

Melting- Points; and Chemical Formulas. By Frank Wig- 
gleswortii Clarke. December, 1873. 8vo., pp. 272. (M. C, 

XII.) 

256. Monographs of the Diptera of JSTorth America. Part iii. By IT. 

LoEW. December, 1873. Sro., pp. 381,4 plates of IIG lignies, 
(M. C, XL) 

257. Systematic Index to List of Foreign Correspondents of the Smith- 

sonian Institution. 1872. 8vo., pp. 30. (M. C, X.) 

258. Bibliographical Index to North American Botany; or. Citations of 

Authorities for all the recorded Indigenous and Naturabzed 
Species of the Flora of Nortli America; with a Chronological 
Arrangement of the Synonymy. Parti. Polypetahe. By Se- 
RENO Watson. IMarch, 1878. 8vo., pp. 484. (M. C, xv.) 

259. Explorations of the Aboriginal Remains of Tennessee. By Joseph 

Jones. October, 1876. 4to., pp. 181, 110 wood-cuts. (S. C, 

XXII.) 

260. Regulations of the Smithsonian Institution. January, 1872. 8vo., 

pp. 41, 1 wood-cut. 

261. Directions for Collecting and Preserving Insects. By A. S. 

Packard, Jr. 1873. 8vo., pp. GO, 55 vrood-cuts. (M. C, xi.) 
269. An Investigation of the Orbit of Uranus, with General Tables 
of its Motion. By Simon Newcomb. August, 1873. 4to., 
pp. 290. (S. C, XIX.) 

263. Circular of Instructions to Observatories rehitive to Telegraphic 

Announcements of Astronomical Discoveries. By Joseph 
Henry. May, 1873. 8vo., pp. 4. (M. C, xii.) 

264. New Species of North American Coleoptera. P.irt ii. By John 

L. Le Conte. 1873. 8vo., pp. 74. ([)p. 109-240.) (},I. C, XL) 



536 CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 

265. Classification of tlie Coleoptera of North America. Part ii. By 

JohnL. Le Conte. June, 1873. 8vo., i>p. 72. (pp. 279-348.) 
(M. C, XL) 

266. On the Structure of Cancerous Tumors and tbemodein wliich Ad- 

jacent Parts are Invaded. Toner Lecture No. l Delivered 
March 28, 1873. By J. J. Woodward. November, 1873. 8vo., 
pp. 44. 5 wood-cuts. (M. C, xv.) 

267. The Haidali Indians of Queen Charlotte's Islands, British Colum- 

bia, with a brief description of their Carvings, Tattoo Designs, 
etc. By James G. Swan. July, 1874. 4to., ])p. 22, 7 plates 
of 24 figures. (S. C, xxi.) 

268. The Winds of the Globe ; or, the Laws of Atmospheric Circulation 

over the Suriace of the Earth. By James Henry Coffin. 
The tables completed and maps drawn by S. J. Coffin, with a 
discussion and analysis of the tables and charts by Alexander 
Woeikof. December, 1875. 4to., pp. 781, 4 wood-cuts, 2G plates 
of 221 figures. (S. C.,xx.) 

269. The Sculptures of Santa Lucia Cosumalwhuapa, in Guatem.ala, 

with an account of travels in Central America and on the West- 
ern Coast of South America. By S. Haeel. 1878. 4to. pp. 
04, 8 plates of 25 figures. (S. C, xxii.) 

270. Catalogue of the described Dipteraof North America. By C. R. 

OSTEN Sacken. 1878. Svo., pp. 324. (M. C, xvi.) 

271. Annual Report of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Insti- 

tution, forthej^ear 1872. Forty-second Congress, third session, 
House of Representatives, Mis. Doc. No. 107. 1873. 8vo., pp. 
456, 109 wood-cuts. 

CONTENTS. 

Henry, J. Secretary's report of ope'-ations. 
Board of Regents. Proceedings of. 
List of meteorological stations and observers. 
Henry, J. Notes relative to George Catlin. 
Report of Committee oi Regents on Corcoran Art Gallery. 
Agassiz, L. Narrative of the Ilassler expedition. 
Bache, a. D. Bequest to National Academy of Sciences. 
Corcoran, W. W. Deed of gift of Art Gallery. 
Toner, J. M. Deed of foundation of Toner lectures. 

Tyndall, J, Trnst fund for the promotion of science iu the United States. 
Hamilton, J. Bequest of |1,000 to Smithsonian Institution. 
Henry, J. Circular sent with specimens presented. 
Arago, M. Eulogy on Ampfere. - 
Fischer, F. Scientific labors of Edward Lavtet. 
Peabody, A. P. Scientific education of mechanics and artisans. 
Bauer, A. Organic bases. 

Kletzinsky, Prof. Nitrogen bodies of modern chemistry. 
Egleston, T. Scheme for the qualitative determination of substances by 
the blow-pipe. 



CATALOGUE OF PTJIUJCATIONS. 537 

r>io\Y-pipe apparatus of Hawkius and Walo. 

SuKSs, E. Boundary line between geology and history. 

Bkkzixa, a. Explanation of the principles of crystallograi>hY and crys- 

tallopliysics. 
WcKiKOFK, A. Meteorology in llnssia. 

DoXATi, G. B. Phenomeua in telegraphic lines during the aurora horcaliy. 
Etiixoi.OGY: 

Broca, r. The Troglodytes, or cave-dwellers, of the valley of the 
Vezcre. 

Rau, C. Aneieiit aboriginal trade in North America. 

Rat, C. North American stouo implements. 

BiiCFF, .J. G. Indian engravings on the face of rocks along Green 
River Valley in the Sierra Xevadas. 

Lee, J. C. Y. Ancient rniu in Arizona. 

Baruandt, a. Haystack mound, Lincoln County, Dak. 

Breed, E. E. Earthworks in Wisconsin. 

Ueax, C. K. Mound in Wisconsin. 

Warxer, J. Big eleithaut mound in Grant County, Wis. 

CuTTS, ,1. B. Ancient relics in northwestern Iowa. 

Perrixe, T. M. Mounds near Anna, Union County, 111. 

Peter, R. Ancient mounds in Kentucky. 

Steriiexsox, M. Fs Mounds in Bartow County, Ga. 

McKiXLEV, W. Mounds in Mcintosh and Early Counties, Ga. 

IIOTCHKiss, ']\ P. Indian remains in Caddo Parish, La. 

LocKETT, S. H. Mounds in Louisiana. 

Peale, T. R. Prehistoric remains in vicinity of city of A\'ashington, 
D. C. ■■ 

Devereux, J. II. Catalogue of cabinet of Iiulian relics presented to 
Smithsonian Institution. 

Devereux, J. H. Ancient pottery from Phillips County, Ark. 

Kipp, .L On the accuracy of Catliu's account of the JIaudan ceremo- 
nies. 

272. Smithsonian ContributioiKs to Knowledge. Vol. xix. 1874. 4to., 
\)\K G-40, (> wood-cuts, 21 plates. 



Barxard, J. G. Problems of rotary motion. No. 240. 
Wood, H. C. Fresh-water algie of North America. No. 24L 
Newcomb, S. Orbit of Uranus. No. 2()2. 

273. Siuitlisonian Miscellaneous Collections. Vol. XL 1874. 8vo., pp. 
700, o5 wood -cuts, 4 plates. 

COXTEXTS. 

Gii.L, T. Arrangement of the families of mammals. No. 230. 

Gill, T. Arraugement of the families of fishes. No. 247. 

LoEW, 11. Monograph of the diptera of North America. Part iii. No, 

2:'G. 
Packard, A. S. Directions for collecting and preserving insects. No.26L 
Le Coxte, J. L. New species of North America coleoptera, Part ii. No. 

2C4. 
Le Coxte, J. L. Classilication of North America coleoptera. Part ii. 

No, 265. 



538 CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 

274. Smitbsoniau Miscellaneous Collections. Vol. xii. 1874. 8vo., 

I)p. 7G7, 8G wood-cuts. 

CONTENTS. 

Baird, S. F. Review of American birds. Parti. No. 181. 

Clarke, F. W. Tlie constants of nature. Parti. .Si)ecific jjjvavities. No. 
255. 

Henry, J. Circular on Telegraphic announcements of astronomical dis- 
coveries. No. 263. 

275. Annual Eejmrt of tlie Board of Eegentsof the Smitlisonian Insti- 

tution, for the year 1873. Forty-third Congress, first session. 
Senate Mis. Doc. No. 130. 1874. 8vo., pp. 452, 33 wood-cuts. 

CONTENTS. 

Henry, J. Secretary's report of operations. , 

Board of Eegents. Proceedings of. 

Baird, S. F. Report on Museum and exchanges. 

Endlich, F, M. List of minerals in the National Museum. 

Classified record of monthly meteorological reports preserved in the Smith- 
sonian Institution. 

Classified list of meteorological publications, and meteorological articles 
in i^eriodicals deposited in Library of Congress in 1873. 

Garfield, .1. A. Biographical notice of S. P. Cuase and L. Agassiz. 

Hamlin, H. Biographical notice of S. P. Chase. 

Parker, P. Biographical notice of L. Agassiz. 

Hamilton, J. Bequest deposited in United States Treasui-y. 

Dodge, N. S. Memoir of Charles Babbagc. 

Henry, .J. On the " Moon-Hoax." 

Babbage, C. Extracts from writings of. 

Stebbins, R. P. Memoir of Louis Agassiz. 

Gray, a. Memior of John Torrey. 

Stevens, J. A. Memoir of George Gibbs. 

Dalton, J. C. Origin and propagation of disease. 

Hi:lmholtz, H. ; Maxwell, J. C. Later views of the connection of elec- 
tricity aud magnetism. 

Gould, B. A. Account of the astronomical observatory at Cordoba, Argen- 
tine Republic. 

Mailly, E. Estimate of the population of the world. 

Morin, A. Warming and ventilating buikliugs. Parti. 

De Forest, E. L. Additions to a memoir on methods of interpolation. 
Part II. 

Ethnolog"$ : 

Schumacher, P. Remarks on the Kjokken-Moddings on the north- 
west coast of America. 
Berendt, C. H. On a grammar and dictionary of the Carib or Karif 
language, with some account of the people by whom it is spoken. 
Gillman, H. The mound-builders and platycnemism in Micliigan. 
Mason, O. T. The Leipsic "Museum of Ethnology." 
Perrine, T. M. Antiquities of Union County, Hi. 
Patton, a. Antiquities of Knox County, lud., and Lawrence Coimly, 
111. 

Miscellaneous Correspondence : 

Dall, W. H. Explorations on the western coast of North America. 
Pierson, W. M. Discovery of a large meteorite in Mexico. 
• Brunot, F. R. On the habits of the beaver. 
Jevons, W. S. On a national library. 



CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 539 

Prize Quiostioxs of SciextH'IC Kocietiks: 

Society for tbo Eucounigomeut of Science, Literature, and Art, Dun- 
kirk, France. 

Society of Science, Art, and Literature of Ilainaut, Mons, Belgium. 

Royal Institute for the Encouragement of the Natural, Economical, 
and Technological Sciences, Naples, Italy. 

Royal Academy of Science, Literature, and the Fine Arts, Brussels, 
Belgium. 

Society of Sciences of Haarlem, Holland. 

276. The Constants of Xatarc. Tart ir. A Tabic of Specilic Beats for 

Solids and Liquids. By Frank W. Clarke. April, 187(i. 
8vo., pp. 5S. (M. C, XIV.) 

277. Tables, Distribution, and Variations of the Atmospheric Tempera 

tare in the United States and some adjacent parts of Ameri(5;i. 
By Charles A. Schott. April, 187C. 4to,, pp. 3G(), 10 wood- 
cuts, 2 plates, 3 maps. (S. C, xxi.) 

278. Check-list of Publications of the Smithsonian Institution. July, 

1874. 8ro., pp. 24. 

279. On Strain and Over-action of the Heart. Toner Lecture No. 

in. Delivered May 14th, 1874. By J. M. Da Costa, August, 
1874. 8vo., pp. 32, 2 woodcuts. (M. C, XV.) 

280. Statement and Exposition of certain Harmonies of the Solar System. 

By Stephen Alexander. March, 1875. 4to.,p[(. 104, 20 wood- 
cuts. (S. C, XXI.) 

281. On the General Integrals of Planetary Motion. By Simon Xew- 

COMB. December, 1874. 4to., pp. 40. (S. C, xxi.) 

282. A Study of the Nature and Mechanism of Fever. Toner Lect- 

ure No. IV. Delivered January 20, 1872. By Horatio C. 
Wood. February, 1875. 8vo., pp. 50. (M. C, xv.) 

283. Catalogue of the Fishes of the East Coast of North America. By 

Theodore Oill. 1875. 8vo., pp. 50. (M. C, xiv.) 

284. Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge. Vol. xx. 1S7G. 4to., 

pp. 794, 4 wood-cuts, 26 plates. 

CONTEXTS. 

Coffin, J. II. The winds of the globe. No. 268. 

285. Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge. Vol. xxi. 187G. 4to., 

pp. 543, 30 wood-cuts, plates, 3 maps. 

CONTEXTS. 

Alexander, S. Harmonies of the solar system. No. 280. 

Newcomb, S. Integrals of planetary motion. No. -281. 

Swan, .1. G. Haidah Indians of Queen Charlotte's Islands, British Colum- 
bia. No. ^C)7. 

SCUOTT, C. A. Tables, atmospheric temperature in the United States. 
No. 277. 



540 CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 

286. Annual Iteport of the IJoard of llegents of the Siiiitlisoniaii insti- 
tution, for tlic year 1874. Forty-third Conjiress, second session. 
House Doc. No. 5G. 1875. 8vo., pp. 410, 4(5 woodcuts. 

CONTENTS. 

Henky, J. Secretary's report of opcratiou.s. 

Board OF Regents. Proceed iiigsoC. 

List of articles deposited by tlie Hniitlisonian Institution in the Corcoran 

Art Gallery. 
List of Indian vocabniaries rcceivod from the Wheeler Expedition. 
Mitchell, S. W. Inquiries relative to the disease known as " Chorea." ] 
Classified record of meteorological material preserved in the Smithsonian 

Institution. Auroras, instruments, meteors, rain, wind, general mete- 

oiology, local meteorology. 
(jIrav, a. ; Coium'je, H. Report of Committee of Regents on the Smithson- 
ian Museum. 
Au.vGO, V. Eulogy on La Place. 
Mailly, 11. Eulogy on Quetelet. 
Dumas, J. B. Eulogy on A. A. de la Rive. 
HiLGAiii), J. E. Tides and tidal action in harbor.s. 
Lemstrom, S. ; Dk la Rivk, A. A. Electricity of (he atmosphere and 

the Aurora Borcalis. 
Dk Ca.ndoli.k, a.; Gray, J. E. On a dominant language for science. 
SciiOTT, C. A. ; Everett, J. D. Underground temperature. 
DuPre, \V. ; Henry, .J. Earthquakes in North Carolina, 1874. 
1)e la Rive, A. A. Report on the transactions of the Society of Physi(s 

and Natural History of Geneva, from July, 1872, to June, 1873. 
MoRiN, A. Warming .•ind ventilating buildings. I'art n. 
Ethnology: 

SciiUMACUER, P. Ancient graves and shell-heaps of California. 

King, W. M. Account of the burial of an Indian squaw, San Bcr 
nardino County, Cal. 

McWhorter, T. Ancient mounds of Mercer County, 111. 

Pratt, W. II. Anticniities of Whitosides County, III. 

Fahquiiarson, R. J. A study of skulls and long bones, from nujunds 
near Albany, 111. 

Tikeany, a. S. The shell-bed skull. 

Hill, G. W. Antiquities of northein Oliio. 

RoisERTSON, R. S. The age of stone, and the troglodytes of J.reckin- 
ridgo County, Ky. 

Davls, a. C. Antiquities of Isle Royale, Lake Superior. 

Smith, J. W. C. Antiquities of Yazoo County, Miss. 

Wright, D. F. Antiquities of Tennessee. 

Law, a. E. Antiquities of Blount County, Tenn. 

Gushing, F. H. Antiquities of Orleans County, N. Y. 

RORERTSON, R. S. Antiquities of La Porte County, Ind. 

RoRERTSON, R. S. Antiquities of Allen and Do Kalb Counties, Ind. 

Haile, J.; McHenry, J. W. Antiquities of Jackson County, Tenn, 

Andkrson, W. Antiquities of Perry County, Ohio. 

Bryan, O. N. Antiquities of Charles County, Md. 

Kron, F. J. Antiquities of Stanley and Montgomery Counties, N. C, 

Mitchell, A. Antiquities of Florida. 

Bartram, J. Antiquities of Florida". 



CATALOfiUK OF PUBLICATIONS. 541 

387. The Arclueolo^ical Collection of the U. S. National Museuin, iu 
charge of the Smithsonian Institution, Washington, I). C. By 
Charles liAu. I87ti. 4to., pp. 118, 310 woodcuts. (S. C.xxii.) 

288. The Constants of Is'ature. First supplement to Part I. S[)ecilic 

Gravities, Boiling Points, and Melting Points. By Frank \V. 
Clarke. April, 1870. 8vo,, jtp. 02. (M. C, xiv.) 

289. The Constants of Nature. Part III. Tables of Expansion by 

Heat foT Solids and Liquids. By Frank W. Clarke. April, 
1870. 8vo., pp. o8. (M. C, Xiv.) 

290. Circular for Distribution at the Centennial Exhibition, 1870, con- 

taining List of Smithsonian Publications and liules of Distri- 
bution; List of Foreign Agents; Number of Foreign and 
Domestic Institutions in Correspondence; List of Begents, 
Oftlcers, and Assistants of the Institution. 1870. 12mo., \)]^. 12. 

291. Dual Character of the Brain. Toner Lecture No, n. Delivered 

April 22, 1874. By C. E. Brown-SI^QUARD. January, 1877. 
8vo., pp. 20. (M. C., XV.) 

292. Cheek-list of North American Batrachia and Reptilia; with a Sys- 

tematic List of the Higher Groups, and an Essay on Geographi- 
cal Distribution based on the si)ecimens contained in the II. S. 
National Museum. liy Edward D. Cope. 1875. 8vo., pp. 108. 
(M. C, xin.) {JhiUetin of the National MuHcum^ No. L) 

293. Contributions to the Natural History of Kerguelen Island, made 

in connection with the American Transit-of- Venus I']xi)edition, 
1874-75. I)y J. II. KiDDER. I. Ornithology, by Elliott Coues. 
1875. 8vo., pp. OL (M. C, xiii.) [Bulletin of the National Mu- 
seum, No. 2.) 

294. Contributions to the Natural History of Kerguelen Island, made 

in connection with the United States TransitofV^enus l]xi)e(li- 
tion, 1874-'75. By J. H. Kidder, ii. Oology, Botany, etc. 
187(;. 8vo., pp. 124. (M. C, xiii.) {Bulletin of the National Mu- 
seum, No. 3.) 

COXTKNTS. 

Kidder, J. II.; Coues, E. Oolot^y. 
Botany: 

Gkay, Asa. A. — lMiaMio^'aiiii;i, filiccs, ct lycopodiaccte. 

James, T. P. 15. — Miisci. 

TUCKERMAN, E. C. — Liclittiies. 

Fari.ow, W. (J. Aljjic. 
Kidder, J. H. Crozct llora. 
Endlicu, F. M. Geology. 
Kidder, J. II. Miunnials. 
Gill, T. N. Fisb. 

Dall, W. II. MoUiisks. 

Insects. 

Ostex-Sacken, R. Dipiera. 

Hagex, H. a. l'semlo-ucuroi)tora, 



542 CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 

Smith, S. I. Crustaceans. 

Vekkill, a. E. Annelids, cchinotlerms, and antbozoa. 

Kershxek, E. Collection. 

KiBDF.ii, .J. H. ; COUES, E. a study of chionis minor. 

295. Birds of Southwestern Mexico, collected by Francis E. Sumiclirast 
for the U. S. iSTational Museum. By George X. Lawrence. 
1875. 8vo., pp.5G. (M. C, xiii.) {Bulletin of the National Mm- 
seum, No. 4.) 

206. Cataloo'iie of the Fishes of the Bermudas. Based chiefly upon 
the collections of the U. S. National Museum. By G. Bkow?; 
Goode. 1876. 8vo., pp. 84. (M. C, xiii.) (Bulletin of tlic 
National Museum, No. 5.) 

297. Classificatiou of the Collection to illustrate the Animal Resources 

of the United States. A List of Substances derived from the 
Animal Kingdom, with Synopsis of the Usefal and Injurious 
Animals and a Classification of Methods of Capture and Utili- 
zation. By G. Brown Goode. 187G. 8vo., pp. 140. (M. C, 
XIII.) {Bulletin of the National Museum, No. G.) 

298. Annual Eeport of the Board of RegCDts of the Smithsonian Insti- 

tution for the year 1875. Forty-fourth Congress, first session. 
Senate Mis. Doc. No. 115. 1876. 8vo., pp. 422, 354 woodcuts. 

CO.NTENTS. 

Henky, .J. Secretary's report of operations. 

Board of REGENXf, Proceediuo;s of 

Baird, S. F. Report on Museuui and explorations. 

Baird, S. F. Report on the proposed plan of exliibit by the Smitlisouiaa ; 
Institution at the International Centennial Exhibition at Philadel- 
phia. 

Parker, P. Eulogy on Henry Wilson. 

Arago, M. Eulogy on Alexander Volta. 

De Candolli;, A. Probable future of the human race. 

De Candolle, a. Rejiort on the transactions of the Society of Physics 
and Natural History of Geneva from July, 1873, to June, 1874. 

Prestwich, J. The past and future of geology. 

Wex, H. G. Diminution of the water of rivers and streams. 

Taylor, W. B. Refraction of sound. 

Henry, J. On the organization of local scientific societies. 

Ethnology: 

MoRTiLLET, G. DE ; Chantre, E. International code of .symbols for 

charts of pre-historic arclueology. 
GiLLMAN, H. Characteristics pertaining to ancient man in Michigan. 
Abbott, C. C. The stone age in New Jersey. 

289. Annual Report of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Insti- 
tution for the year 187G. Forty-fourth Congress, second session. 
Senate Mis. Doc. No. 46. 1877. 8vo., pp. 488, 73 woodcuts. 

CONTENTS. 

Henry, J. Seoretar^-'s report of operations. 
Board oe Regents. Proceedings of 



CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS 543 

Bajrd, S. F. Report ou Museum and explorations. 

Baikd, S. F. Report ou Centennial Exhibition of ISTG. 

Centeuuial awards to Suiitliaouian Institution. 

Gray, A.; Saugent, A. A,; Clymkr, H. Report of Committee on the 

Museum. 
Bancroft, G. Memorial to Congress, in behalf of the Regents, for new 

museum. 
List of collections presented by foreign commissioners to the United States. 
Arago, M. Eulogy on Gay Lnssac. 
FiALiU), A. Biographical sketch of Uom Pedro II. 
Taylor, W, B. Kinetic theories of gravitation. 
Pilar, G. The revolntiou.s of the crust of the earth. 
KiRKWOOD, D. The asteroides between Mars and .Jupiter. 
Ethnology: 

Mason, O. T. The Latimer collection of antiquities from Porto Rico 
in the National Museum at Washington, D. C. 

ROMKR, F. F. Prehistoric antiquities of Hungary. 

Blondel, S. Jade. A historical, arclueological, and literary study of 
the mineral called Yu by the Chinese. 

Williamson, G. Antiquities in Guatemala. 

Bereni>t, C. IL Collection of historical documents in Guatemala. 

Strong, Moses. Observations on the prehistoric mounds of Grant 
County, Wis. 

Sny'DER, .J. F. Deposits of flint implements, Illinois. 

Smith, C. D. Ancient mica mines in North Carolina. 

Peet, S. D. Double-walled earthwork in Ashtabula County, Ohio. 

Ellsworth, E. W. Ancient implement of wood, from Connecticut. 

Powers, S. Centennial mission to the Indians of western Nevada and 
California. 

Doyle, W. E. Indian forts and dwellings, Indian Territory. 

Brackett, a. G. The Sioux or Dakota Indians. 

300. Ou the Surgical Complications aud Sequels of tlie Continued 

Fevers. With a Bibliography of works on Diseases of the 
Joints, Bones, Larynx, the Eye, Gangrene, HaMJiatoina, Phleg- 
masia, etc. Toner Lecture No. v. Delivered February 17, 
187G. By William W. Keen. March, 1876. 8vo., pp. 72, 5 
wood-cuts. (M. C, XV.) 

301. List of Publications of the Smithsonian Institution, July, 1877. 

1877. 8vo., pp. 72. (M. C, xiv.) 

302. Subcutaneous Surgery, its Principles, and its recent Extension iu 

Practice. Toner Lecture No. vi. Delivered September 13, 
1870. By William Adams. April, 1877. 8vo., pp. 20. (M. 
C, XV.) ' 

303. Contributions to the Natural History of the Hawaiian and Fanning 

Islands and Lower California, made in connection with the 
United States North Pacific Surveying Expedition, 1873-'75. 
By Thomas H. Streets. 1877. 8vo., pp. 172. (M. C, xin.) 
{Bulletin of the National Museum, No. 7.) 



544 CATALOGUE'] OP PUBLICATIONS. 

coxtents. 
Ornithology. 
Heiu'etology. 
Ichthyology. 

I. Fishes of Upper ancU Lower California. 
II. Fishes of the Hawaiian Islands. 

III. Fishes of the Fanning Islands. 

IV. Fishes /rom the Samoan Islands. 

CkUoTACEA. 

Botany. 

304. Index to the Names whicli bave been applied to the Subdivisions 

of the Class Brachiopoda, excluding the Budistes, previous to 
year 1877. By W. H. Ball. 1S77. Svo., pp. 88. (M. C, xiii.) 
{Bulletin of the JSational Museum, No. 8.) 

305. Contributions to Xorth Atnerican Ichthyology. Based primarily 

on the collections of the U. S. National Museum, i. Review < 
Eafinesque's Memoirs on North American Fishes. ByDAVi: 
S.Jordan. 1877. 8vo., pp. 56. (M. C, xiii.) {Bulletin of ti 
National Museum, No. 9.) 

306. Contributions to North American Ichthyology. Based primarily 

on the collections of the U. S. National Museum, ii. A. —Notes 
on CottidoB, Etheostomatidie, Percidaj, Centrarcliidae, Aphodo- 
deridie, Dorysomatidse, and Cyprinidce, with revisions of the 
genera and descri[)tions of new or little known species. B. — 
Synopsis of the Siluridte of the Fresh Waters of North America. 
By David S. Jordan. 1877. 8vo., pp. 124, 45 plates of 100 
figures. (M. C, xiii.) {Bulletin of the National Museum, No. 10.) 

307. Report of the Centennial Exhibition, Philadelphia. By S. F. 

Baird. 1877. 8vo., pp. 22. 

308. Contributions to North American Ichthyology, based primarily en 

the collections of the U. S. National Museum, iii. A. — On the 
distribution of the Fishes of the Alleghany Region of South Car- 
olina, Georgia, and Tennessee, with descriptions of now or little 
known species. By David S. Jordan and'ALEMBERT W. 
Brayton. B.— a synopsis of the Family Catostomidai. By 
David S. Jordan. 1878. 8vo., pp. 237. (M. C, xxiii.) {BuL 
let in of the National Museum, No. 12.) 

309. List of Foreign Correspondents of the Smithsonian Institution. 

Corrected to January, 1878. March, 1878. 8v^o., pp. 120. (M. 
C, XV.) 

310. On the Internal Structure of the Earth, considered as affecting the 

Phenomena of Precession and Nutation ; supplementary to ar- 
ticle under the above head, Smithsonian Contributions to Knowl- 
edge, Vol. XIX, No. 240, being the tliird of the Problems of 
Rotary Motion. By J. G. Barnard. August, 1877. ito., pp. 
19, 4 wood-cuts. (S. C, XXIIL) 



CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 545 

311. Index Catalogue of Books and Memoirs relating to ^S^cbnlic and 

Clusters, etc. Bj^Edwakd S.Holden. Novenibor, 1877. 8vo., 
pp. 126. (M. C, XIV.) 

312. Smitbsonian Miscellaneous Collections. A^ol. xm. 1878. 8vo., 

pp. 982, 45 i>lates. {BuUeUns of the Kational Museum, Nos. 1 to 
10.) 

CONTENTS. 

Cope, E. D. North AiDerican batnicbia aud reiJtilia. No. 2'J2. 
KiDDKR, J. II. ; CouES, E. Birds of Kergueleu Islaud. No. tliV-i. 
Kidder, J, H., aud others. Oology, botany, etc., of Korgiieleu Islaud. 

No. 294. 
Lawrence, G. N. Birds of Mexico. No. 295. 
GOODE, G. B. Fishes of Bermuda. No. 29(5. 
GooDE, G. B. Chissificatiou of auiiual resources. No. 297. 
Streets, T. H. Natural history of Ilawaiiau Islauds, ]'\nnuiTig Islands 

aud Lower California. No. 303. 
Dall, W. H. Index of brachiopoda. No. 301. 
Jordan, D. S. North American Ichthyology. Nos. 305 aud 30(;. 

313. The Flora of St. Croix and the Virgin Islands. By II. F. x\. 

Eggers. 1879. 8vo., pp. 139. (M.C.,xxiii.) {BuUct'mof the 
National Museum, No. 13.) 

314. Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections. Vol. xiv. 1878. 8vo., 

l)p. 911, 4 plates. 

contents. 

De Saussure, II. Synopsis of American wasps. No. 254. 

Gill, T. Catalogue of fishes. No. 283. 

Clarke, F. W. Specific gravity tables. Siipp. I. No. 288. 

Clarke, F. W. Specific heat tables. No. 276. 

Clarke, F. W. Tables of expausiou by heat. No. 289. 

Catalogue of photograph portraits of North Americau Indians. No. 21G. 

Check list of Smithsouian publications to July, 1877. No. 301. 

HoLDEN, E. S. Catalogue of books relative to uebula;. No. 311. 

315. Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections. Vol. xv. 1878. 8vo., 

l)p. 880, 53 wood-cuts. 

CONTENTS. 

Watson, S. Botauical index. No. 258. 

Woodward, J. J. Toner Lecture i. Cancerous tumors. No. 2GG. 

Brown-Sequard, C. E. Toner Lecture ii. The brain. No. 291. 

Da Costa, J. M. Toner Lecture in. The heart. No. 279. 

Wood, H. C. Toner Lecture iv. Study of fever. No. 282. 

Keen, W. W. Toner Lecture v. Continued fevers. No. 300. 

Adams, W. Toner Lecture vi. Subcutaneous surgery. No.t302. 

List of foreign correspoudents of the Smithsonian Institution to January,' 

1878. No. 309. 
Circular in reference to American archaeology. No. 316. 
Circular. Inquiries relative to crawfish and Crustacea. No. 319. 
Circular relating to collections of living reptiles. No. 320. 

316. Circular in reference to American Archajology. 1878. 8vo., pp. 

15, 38 wood-cuts. (M. C, XV.) 
H. Mis. 170 35 



546 CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 

317. A clftssiUcatiou aud Synopsis of the Trochilidae. By Daniel Gi- 

RAUD Elliot. 1879. 4to., pp. L^89, 127 wood- cuts. (S. C, 

XXIII.) 

318. On the Eemaius of Later Pie-historic Man, obtained from Caves 

in the Catherina Archipelago, Alaska Territory, and especially 
from the Caves of the Aleutian Islands. By W. H. Dall. 

1878. 4to., pp. 44, 10 plates of 39 figures. (S. C, xxii.) 

319. Circular of Inquiries relative to the Natural History of the Ameri- 

can Crawfish aud other Fresh-water Crustacea. 1878. 8vo., 
p]). 8, 2 wood-cuts. (M. C, xv.) 

320. Circular relating to Collections of Living Reptiles. 1878. 8vo., 

pp. 2. (M. C, XV.) 

321. The Nature of Reparatory Inflammation in Arteries after Liga- 

ture, Acupressure, and Torsion. Toner Lecture No. vii. 
Delivered June 27, 1878. By Edw. O. Shakespeare. March, 

1879. 8vo., pp. 74, 7 plates of 11 figures. (M. C, xvi.) 

322. Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections. Vol. xvi. 1880. 8vo., 

pp. 950, 871 wood-cuts, 7 plates. 

CONTEXTS. 

Tkyon, G. W. Land and fresh-water shells. Strepomatidse. No. 253. 

OSTEX Sacken, I. R. Catalogue of diptera. No. 270. 

Shakespeare, E. O. Nature of reparatory inflammation. No. 321. 

Circular relative to scientific and literary exchanges. No. 324. 

Business arrangements of the Smithsonian Institution. No. 325. 

Elliot, D. G. List of species of humming birds. No. 334. 

Liat of the priucii>al scientific and literary institutions in the United 

States. No. 335. 
List of publications of the Smithsonian Institution. No. 344. 

323. Annual Report of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Insti- 

tution, for the year 1877. Forty-fifth Congress, second session. 
Senate Mis. Doc. No. 35, 1878. 8vo., pp. 500, 49 wood-cuts. 

COXTEXTS. 

Hexry, J. Secretary's report of operations. 

BOAKD OF Regents, Proceedings of. 

Baird, S. F. Rei)ort on Museum and explorations. 

Baiud, S. F. List of explorations furnishing collections to the National 

Museum, 1838 to 1877. 
II<^mgkex, F. Color blindness in its relation to accidents by rail and sea. 
Hexry, J. Color blindness. 
Plaxtamour, E. Report on the transactions of the Geneva Society of 

Physics and Natural ilistory, from June, 1874, to June, 1875. 
MtjLLF.u, J. Report on the transactions of the Geneva Society of Physics 

and Natural Historj^, from .lune, 1875, to June, 1876. 
Favre, a. Report on the transactions of the Geneva Society of Physics 

and Natural History, from June, 1876, to June, 1877. 



CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 547 

Ethnology : 

Canxox, G. L. Autiqiiifcics of JeflVrson and Clear Crook Counties, 
Colo. 

Stkong; Moses, Antiquities in Wisconsin. 

Hart, J. N. de. Tlio mounds and osteolojjy of the niound-buildfrs of 
Wisconsin. 

Breed, E. E. Pits at Embarrass, Wis. 

MoULTOX, M. W. Mounds in Delaware County, Iowa. 

Knapp, Mrs. G. Earthworks on the Arkansas River, lO niiles Ixdovv 
Little Rock. 

Lykixs, W. H. R. Antiquities of Kansas City, Mo. 

Shaw, J. The mound-builders in the Rock River Valhy, Illinois. 

Cochrane, J. Antiquities of Masou County, 111. 

Hill, G. W. Ancient earthworks of Ashland County, Ohio. 

Case, H. B. Flint implements in Holmes County, Ohio. 

Miller, F. Mound in Trumbull County, Ohio. 

Friel, J. Antiquities of Hancock County, Ky. 

Robertson, R. S. Antiquities of Nashville, Tenu. 

Clark, W. M. Antiquities of Tennessee. 

Jones, Jr., C. C. Aboriginal structures in Geor<i;ia. 

Bailey, W. B. F. Antiquities of Spalding County, Ga. 

Gaines, A. S. ; Cunningha.m, K. M. Shell-heaps on Mobile Rivi-r. 

Rau, C. The stock in trade of an aboriginal la,i)idary. 

Rau, C. Observations on a gold ornament from a mound in I'lorida. 

Halde.man, S. S. On a polychrome bead from Florida. 

Harrison, A. M. Colored bead dug from a mound on thi; eastern coast 
of Florida. 

Mayberry, S. p. Shell-heaps at the mouth of Saint John.'s Ixiver, 
Florida. 

Taylor, W. jM. Ancient mound in western Pennsylvania. 

Shepard, a. M. Deposit of arrow-heads near Fishkill, N. Y. 

GiBBS, G. J. Stone celts in the We.st Indies and Africa. 

Galt, F. L. The Indians of Peru. 

Bowers, S. History and antiquities of Santa Rosa Island, Calilbiiii.i. 
McParlin, T. A. Notes on the history and climate of New Mexico. 
Weismann, a. On the change of the Mexican axolotl to an amblysiouia 
Abbe, C. Short meH)oirs on meteorological subjects, translated by, viz : 

Hann, J. On the diminution of aqueous vapor with increasing alti- 
tude in the atmosphere. 

Hann, J. On the influence of rain upon the barometer and upon the 
formation of precipitation in general. 
Hann, J. Atmospheric pressure and rain-fall. 
Hann, J. The laws of the variation of temperature in ascending ciirrcnis 

of air. 
SOHNCKE, L. The la\v of the variation of temperature in ascending moist 

currents of air. 
Reye, T. Rain-fall and barometric mininui. 

Hann, J. On the relation between the difference of pressure and the ve- 
locity of the wind according to the theories of Ferrel and Colding. 
Ferrel, W. Reply to the criticisms of J. Hann. 
Colding, A. Some remarks concerning the nature of currents of air. 
Colding, A. On the whirlwind at St. Thomas on the 21st of August, isri. 
Peslin, M. Ou the relation between barometric vaiations and the gcu 

eral atmospheric currents. 



548 CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 

324. Circular relative to Scieutitic and Literary Exchanges. 1879. 8vo., 

pp. 3. (M. C, XVI.) 

325. Business arrangements of the Smithsonian Institution. January, 

1879. 8vo., pp. 7. (M. C, xvi.) 

326. Catalogue of the Collection to illustrate the Animal Eesources and 

the Fisheries of the United States, exhibited at Philadelphia^ 
in 187G, by the Smithsonian Institution and the XJ. S. Fish Coin- 
mission, and forming a part of the U. S. National Museum. By 
G. Browne Goode. 1879. 8vo., pp. 3G7. (M. C, xxin.) [Bul- 
letin of the National Museum, No. 14.) 

327. The Scientific Writings of James Smithson. Edited by William 

J. Ehees. 1879. 8vo., pp. 16G, 32 wood-cuts, 1 plate (portrait.) 
(M. C, XXI.) 

CONTKNTS. 

Smithson, J. Scientific writiugs. 

Johnson, W. K. Memoir ou the Bcicntilic cliariioter and researches of 

James Smithson. 
Irijy, J. K. McD. Works and character of James Smithson. 

328. The Smithsonian tustitution. Documents relative to its Origin 

and History. By William J. Rhees. 1879. 8vo., pp. 1027. 
(M. C, XVII.) 

CONTENTS. 

Smithson, J. Will of 

Correspondence between attorneys in England, Department of State, 
Richard Rush, and others relative to the bequest of Smithson. 

Runs, R. The case stated. 

Opinion of English counsel. 

Decree of Chancery Court awarding bequest to the United States. 

Account of case of the United States. 

Bill of costs of the case of the United States. 

Rush, R. Accounts of 

Smithson, J. Schedule of personal effects. 

Smithson, J. Residuary legacy of 

Congressional proceedings in relation to the bequest. 1835 to 1877. 
Twenty-fourth to Forty-fourth Congress. 

Hknry, J. Digest of act of Congress to establish the Smithsonian Insti- 
tution. 

Adams, J. Q. Extracts from Memoirs of, relative to Smithson bequest. 

Treasury of U. S. Accounts of, with Smithson fund. 

I*roposed applications of Smith.son bequest. 

Report of Organization Committee of the Board of Regents of the Smith- 
sonian Institution. 

Henry, J. Programme of organization of Smithsonian Institution. 

Letters relative to the programme of organization. 

329. The Smithsonian Institution. Journals of the Board of liegents, 

Eeports of Committees, Statistics, etc. By William J. Rhees, 
1879. 8vo., pp. 851. (M. C, xvm.) 



CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 549 

CONTENTS. 

Journal of Proceedings of tlio Board of Regents from 1846 to 187G. 

Report of tlio Special Coiumitteo of the Board of Regents on tbo distribu- 
tion of the income. 

Report of the Special Conuuitteo of tbo Board of Regents — Professor Felton — 
on tbe present of tbo Greek album from Miss E. Contaxaki. 

Report of tbe Special Committoo of tbe Board of Regents— Professor Felton — 
on tbe purcbaso of tbo Stanley Indian gallery. 

Hknky, J. Communication relative to a publication by Prof. S. V. B. 
Morse. 

Rt^port of tbe Special Comuiitteo of tbo Board of Regents on tbe invention 
of tbe electro-magnetic telegrapb. 

Report of tbe Special Committee of tbo Board of Regents relative to tbe 
Smithsonian fire of January 24, 18G5. 

Act of Congress to transfer custody of library to Library of Congress. 

Act of Congress to receive into Treasury of tbe United States residuary 
legacy of Smitbson, and to authorize increase of fund to a million 
dollars. 

Report of the Special Committee of tbo Board of Regents on best use of new 
hall of Institution. 

Report of Executive Committee of the Board of Regents on the Washing- 
ton City Canal. 

Report of the Executive Committee of tbe Board of Regents relative to tbe 
Corcoran Art GallerJ^ 

Report of the Special Committee of tbe Board of Regents on the Museum. 

Eulogies and Biographical Sketches: 

Agassiz, L. ; Bacbe, A. D. ; Chase, S. P ; Cleaveland, P. ; Douglas, S, 
A.; Espy, J. P.; Felton, C. C. ; Ilarvey, W. H. ; Irving, W. ; 
Jewett, C. C. ; Pearce, J. A. ; Priestley, J. ; Rush, R. ; Seaton, 
W. W. ; Totten, J. G. ; Turner, W. W. ; Wilson, H. ; Wurde- 
man, G. 

Agassiz, L. Narrative of expedition through Straits of Magellan to Cali- 
fornia. 

Bache, a. D. Will of, establishing Bacbe Scientific Fund. 

CoRCOKAN, W. W. Deed of gift and trust of Corcoran Art Gallery. 

ToNKR, J. M. Deed of, establishing Toner Lectures for advance of medi- 
cal science. 

Tyndall, ,T. Deed of, e itablisbing trust for promotion of science in tbe 
United States. 

Hamilton, J. Bequest of, to Smithsonian Institution. 

Circular sent with specimens of natural history, etc., presented to institu- 
tions. 

Journal of tbe Executive Committee from September 12, 184G, to Decem- 
ber 21, 1849. 

Report of tbe Executive Committee, from 1847 to ISTf). 

Journal of the Building Committee, from February 17, 1847, to December 
1, 1847. 

Report of tbe Building Committee, 1847 to 18G7. 

General financial and statistical statements, receipts and expenditures, 
classified, 184G to 1877. 

Statistics of literary and scientific exchanges, additions to tbe library, 
etc., 184G to 1877. 

Appropriations from National Treasury by Congress tor Smitbs«nian In- 
stitution and National Museum, 184G to 187G. 



550 CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 

List of Kcgeuts of llie lastitution from 1846 to 1879, accovdiug to mode of 

appointment, residence, etc. 
Act of Congress to establisli the Smithsonian Institution, August 10, 1846. 
The same according to the Revised Statutes. 
By-laws of the " Estahlishmeut." 
The "Establishment" of the Smithsonian lustitution, organization and 

journal of proceedings, 1846 to 1877. 
Examination of Professor Henry hy the English Gorerument Scientific 

Commission, June 28, 1870. 

330. Smitbsou and bis Bequest. By William J. Riiees. 18X0. 8vo., 

pp. 7G, 9 pUites. (M. C, xxi.) 

CONTENTS. 

Life of Smithson. 

Legislation of Congress in relation to the bequest. 

List of first Board of Kegents. 

Obituary notice of Smithson, March, 1830. 

DUTENS, L. Account of the First Duke of Xorthumberlaud. 

Notice of the First Duke in The Gentleman's Magazine, 1786. 

Coffin-plate inscrii)tioH of Hugh Smithson. 

Account of Earl Percy. 

Notice of Smithsou's i^apcr on "Tabasheer." 

Davy, Sir H. Notice^^f Smithson's paper on "Calamines." 

Illustrations of presentations of books to Smithson. 

Berzelius. Notice of Smithson's researches. 

Extracts from Smithson's scientific writings. 

Catalogue of the library of Smithson. 

Notice of the city of Washington, in Harriott's travels. 

Notice of the city of Washington, in Weld's travels. 

331. The Palenque Tablet, in the United States jSTational Museum, 

Washington, D. C. By Charles Rau. 1879. 4to., pp. 90, 2 
plates. (S. C, XXII.) 

33'>. I'loceedings of the U. S. National Museum for 1878. Vol. i. 1879. 
8vo., pp. 524, 8 cuts, 8 plates. (M. C, xix. 

CONTENTS. 

Bean, T. H. Description of a new_ si^aroid fish, Sargus liolhrooMi, from 
Savannah Bank. 
On the occurrence of Stichaus pxinctatits ( Fabr. ) Ivroyer, at St. Michael's, 

Alaska. 
On the identity of EuchaJarodus Putiiami Gill, with Pleurouectes glahcr 

(Storer) Gill, with notes on habits of the species. 
Description of a sj^ecies of ii/ codes (L. Turneri) from Alaska. 
See also under Goode and Beaa. 
Belding, L. a partial list of the birds of central California. 
Cook, C. The manufacture of porpoise-oil. 

Dall, W. H. Description of new forms of mollusks from Alaska con- 
tained in the collections of the National Museum. 
Postplioceue fossils in the Coast Eange of California. 
Fossil mollusks from later tertiaries of California. 

Note on shells from Costa Rica kitchenmidden, collected by Drs. Flint 
and Br.ansford. 



CATALOGUE OV PlIBIJCATIONS. 551 

Dall, W. II.— Coutinued. 

Distribution of CaUfoniUui tcrtiiiry fossils. 

Descriptions of new species of sliells fioni California in tlie collections 

of tbe National Museum. 
Report on the limpets and chitons of the Alaskan and Arctic regions, 
descriptions of genera and species believed to be new. 
EDWAKDS, V. N. On the occuneucoof the Oceanic Bonito, Orcipmspelaviys 

(Lum6) Poey, in Vineyard Sound, Massachusetts. 
GiLl., T. Synopsis of the pedicnlato fishes of the l/.stern Coast of Ex- 
tratropical North America. 
Note on the Aniennariid(e. 
On the proper specific name of the common pelagic antenuarud / iero- 

phryne. 
Note on the Cerattidoe. 
Note on the Maltheidw. 
GOODE, G. B. The Clupca iyrannus of Latrobe. 

The occurrence of Belone latimamts in Buzzard's Bay, Mas.nchnsetts. 
The voices of Crustaceans. 

A revision of the American species of the genus BrevoorUa, with a de- 
scription of a new species from the Gulf of Mexico. 
The occurrence of mppocampm antiquorum, or an allied form, on St. 

George's Banks. 
The occurrence of the Canada porcupine in West Virginia. 
On two fishes from the Bermudas mistakenly described as new by Dr. 
Giinther. 
GOODK, G. B. ; Bean, T. H. The Craig flounder of Europe, Glyptocephalus 
cytiofjlofisus, on the coast of North America. 
The Oceanic Bonito on the coast of the United States. 
Description of CaxdolalUm microps, a new species offish from the Gulf 
coast of Florida. 
On a new serranoid fish, Epinephelns Drnmmond-Hayi, from tUe Bermudas 
and Florida. 
Descriptions of two new species of fishes, Luljanns Blackfordu and 

Luijanu^ utearnsii, from the Coast of Florida. 
A note upon the Black Grouper (Epinephdm nigritm (Ilolbrook) Gill) 

of the Southern coast. 
Descriptions of two gadoid fishes, Phycis Chesteri and Haloporphirus 

riola, from the deep-sea fauna of the Northwestern Atlantic. 
Description of Argentina syrtensium, a new deep-sea fish from Sable 

Island Bank. 
The identity of Ehinonemm caudacula, (Storer) Gill with Gadus cimirins 

Linn- , , XT r> 

Note on I'lafessa firnnfuwa D. H. Storer, and Plaies.a roslmta H. U. 

Storer. . , r. 

On the identity of Brosmins hro^me americanus Gill, with Brosimm 

brosme (Miiller) White. 
Jacksox, J. B. S. Arsenic acid for protecting anatomical preparations 

from insects. 
Jefferson, J. P. On the mortality of fishes in the Gulf ol Mexico m 

jEKFEnsoN,^J. P.; POKTEU, J. Y. ; MOOKK, T. On the destruction of lish 
in the vicinity of the Tortugas during the months of beptembei 
and October, 1S78. 

JOKOAN, D. S. Notes on a collection of fishes f.oni Clackamas River, 

Oregon. 



552 CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 

Jordan, D. 8.; Gilbert, C. H. Notes on tlie fislies of Beaufort Harbor, 

North Carolina. 
Lawrence, G. N. Catalogue of tlie birds of Dominica, from collections 
made for the Smithsonian Institution, by Frederick A. Obcr, to- 
gether with his notes and observations. 
Catalogue of the birds of St. Vincent, from collections m.ade by Fred. 
A. Ober, under the directions of the Smithsonian Institution, with 
his notes thereon. 
Catalogue of the birds of Antigua and Barbuda, from collections made 
for the Smithsonian Institution, by Fred. A. Ober, with his ob- 
servations. 
Catalogue of the birds of Grenada, from a collection made by Fred. A. 
Ober for the Smithsonian Institution, including others seen by 
him, but not obtained. 
Catalogue of the birds collected in Martinique, by Fred. A. Ob(>r for 

the Smithsonian Institution. 
Catalogue of a collection of birds obtained in Guadeloupe for the 

Smithsonian Institution, by Fred. A. Ober. 
A general catalogue of the birds noted from the islands of the Lesser 
Antilles visited by Fred. A. Ober; with a table showing their dis- 
tribution, and those found in the United States. 
LUPTON, N. T. On the breeding habits of the sea-catfish (J rioj^s/s milhertil) 
Merrill, J. C. Notes on the ornithology of southern Texas, being a list 
of birds observed in the vicinity of Fort Brown, Tex., from Feb- 
ruary, 187G, to June, 1878. 
POEY, F. Notes on the American species of the genus Ci/hium. 
Pratt, R. H. Catalogue of casts taken by Clark Mills of the heads of 
sixty-four Indian prisoners of various western tribes, and held at 
Fort Marion, Saint Augustine, Fla., in charge of K. 11. Pratt. 
RiDGWAY, R. On a new humming bird (Afthis Ellioti) from Guatemala. 
A review of the American species of the genus Scops, Savigny. 
Descriptions of several new species and geographical races of birds 
contained in the collection of the United States National Museum- 
Description of two new species of birds from Costa Rica, and notes on 

other rare species from that country. 
Descriptions of new species and races of American birds, including a 
synopsis of the genus Tyranrtus, Cuvier. 
Stearns, S. A note on the Gulf menhaden, Brevoortie patron us, Goode. 
Steindaciiner, F. Note on I'erca Jiavescens. 

WiLMOT, S. Notes on the western gizzard shad, Dornsoma ccpediannm 
heterurum (Raf.) Jordan. 
333. Proceediiigsof tlie U.S. :N:itioncal Museum for 1879. Vol. ii. 1881. 
8vo., pp. 503, 2 wood-cuts, 7 plates. (M. C, xix.) 

CONTENTS. 

Bean, T. H. A list of European fishes in the collection of the U. S. 

National Museum. 
On the species of Astroscopus of the Eastern United States. 
On the occurrence of Hippoglosstis vulgaris, Flem., at Unalashka and 

St. Michael's, Alaska. 
Description of an apparently now species of Gasierosteus (G. atkinsii) 

from the Schoodic Lakes, Maine. 
Description of a new fish from Alaska {Anarrhichas lepturns), with 

notes upon other species of the genus Anarrhichas. 
Notes on coUeciion of fiehea from eastern Georgia. 



OATALOGUE OF TUBLICATIONS. 553 

Bkan, T. II. — Colli iiinoil. 

Descriptiou of :i new (spciics of Amiurun {J. jionderonufi) from tlio Mis- 

bissippi RiviT. 
Description of two spocies of fishes collected by Prof. A. Dn^^s in 

Central Mexico. 
Descriptions of some geneni ;iti<1 species of Alaskan fislies. 
See also under Goode and Bean. 
Bkk.wkr, T. M. Notes on the nests and ejxSR of the eight North American 

species of emiiidonaces. 
CooPKR, J. G. On tli<^ migrations and nesting habits of west coast birds. 
CouKS, E. Fourth installment of ornithological bibliography, being a list 

of faunal publications relating to British birds. 
Garke, H. On the birds of Heligoland. 

Goode, G. B. A study of the trunk fishes (Ostraciontiihr) , with notes 
ujion the American species of the family. 
A preliminary catalogue of the fishes of the St. John's River and the 
east coast of Florida, with descriptions of a new genus and three 
new species. 
Description of a new species of amber fish (Seriola stearusii) obtained 
near Pensacola, Fla., by Mr. Silas Stearns. 
Goode, G. B.; Bean, T. H. Descrii>tion of Alepocephalus bairdii, a new 
species offish from the deep-sea fauna of the western Atlantic. 
Description of a species of Lycoden (L. jyaxillus), obtained by the U. S. 

Fisn Commission. 
Description of a new species of Liparis {L. ranula), obtained by the U. 

S. Fish Commission off Halifax, Nova Scotia. . 
Catalogue of a collection of fishes sent from Pensacola, Fla., and vicin- 
ity, by Mr. Silas Stearns, with descriptions of six new species. 
Description of a new genus and species of fish, LophoJalilus chnmwleon- 

t'tceps, from the south of New Englantl. 
On the occurrence of Lycodes rahlii, Eeinhardt, on La Have and Grand 

Banks. 
Catalogue of a collection of fishes obtained in the Gulf of Mexico by 
Dr. J. W. Velio, with description of seven new species. 
Harger, 0. Notes on Now England Isopoda. 

Jordan, D. S. Notes on certain typical specimens of American fishes in 
the British Museum and in the Museum d'Histoire Naturelle, at 
Paris. 
Description of new species of North American fishes. 
Notes on a collection of fishes obtained in tho streams of Guanajuato 
and in Chapala Lake, Mexico, by Prof. A. Dugfes. 
Kidder, J. IL Report of experiments upon the animal heat of Jishes, made 
at Provincetown, Mass., during tho summer of 1879, in connection 
with operations of the U. S. Fish Commission. 
LocKiNGTON, W. N. Review of the ricuroneciidw of San Francisco. 

Descriptions of new genera and species of fishes from *he coast of Cali- 
fornia. 
Merrill, J. C. On the habits of the Rocky Mountain goat. 
Pratt, R. IL List of names, ages, tribe, etc., of Indian boys and girls at 
Hampton Normal and Agricultural Institute, Virginia, jdastcr casts 
of whose heads were taken by Clark Mills, esq., March, 1879. 
Smith, S. I. Occurrence of Chelnra terebrans, a crustacean destructive to the 
timber of submarine structures, on the coast of the United States. 
Notice of a new species of tho WiUemcena group of Crustacea (recent 
Eryontidce). 



554 CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 

Vkrriix, A. E. Notice of recent additions to the marine iavertebrata of 
tbe northeastern coast of America, with descriptions of new genera 
and species and critical remarks on others. 
Verkill, a. E.; Eathbux, R. List of marine invertebrata from the New 
England coast, distributed by the U. S. Commission of Fish and 
Fisheries. 
White, C. A. Descriptions of new species of cabouiferous invertebrate 
fossils. 
Descriptions of new cretaceous invertebrate fossils from Kansas and 

Texas. 
Note on Endothijra omnia. 
Note on Criocardium and Ethmocardium. 

334. List of described species of Hnuimiug Birds. By J^aniel Giraud 

Elliot. 1879. 8vo., pp. ^-*. (M.C.,xvl) 

335. List of tbe Principal Scientific and Literary Institutions in tbe 

United States, May, 1879. 1879. 8vo., i)p. C. (M. C, xvi.) 

336. Smitbsonian Miscellaneous Collections, Vol. xvii. 1880. 8vo., 

pp. 1034. 

CONTENTS. 

Docnments relative to the origin and history of the Smithsonian Institu- 
tion. No. 328. 

337. Smitbsonian Miscellaneous Collections. Vol. xviii. 1880. 8vo., 

pp. 851. 

CONTENTS. 

Journals of the Board of Regents, Reports of Committees, Statistics, etc. 
No. 329. 

338. jSTotes on tbe Life and Cbaracter of Josepb Henry. Read before 

tbe Pbilosopbical Society of Wasliington, October 20, 1878. By 
James C. Welling. 1880. 8vo., pp. 30, 1 plate. (Portrait.) 
(M. C, XXL) 

339. A Memoir of Josepb Henry : a Sketcb of bis Scientific Work. 

Read before tbe Pbilosopbical Society of Wasbington, October 
26,1878. By William B. Taylor. 1880. 8vo., pp. 225, 1 platt\ 
(Portrait.) (M.C.,xxl) 

340. Smitbsonian Coutributious to Knowledge. Vol. xxii. 1880. 4to., 

pp. 537, 474 wood-cuts, 20 plates. 

CONTENTS. 

Jones, J. Explorations of aboriginal remains of Tennessee. No. 259. 
Habel, S. Sculptures of Santa Lucia Cosumaluhuapa, in Guatemala. 

No. 269. 
Rau, C. Archaeological collection of U. S. National Museum. No. 287. 
Rau, C. Paleuque tablet in the U. S. National Museum. No. 331. 
Dall, \V. H. Remains of later pre-historic man in Alaska. No. 318. 

341. Annual Report of the Board of Regents of tbe Smithsonian Insti- 

tution, for tbe year 1878. Forty-fifth Congress, third sessiqn. 
Senate Mis. Doc. No. b^. 1879. 8vo., pp. 575, 12 wood-cuts. 



CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 555 

CONTEXTS. 

Baihd, S. F. Secretary's report of oxieratious. 

Eej)ort of GoYornment explorations and surveys. 

Acts and resolutions of Congress relative to tin' Siiiitlisonian In.stitution 
and tlie National Museum. Forty-ilftli Congress, seeoiid and third ses- 
sions, lS7d, 1879. 

Board or Regents, Proceedings of 

Gray, A. Biographical memoir of Josci)h Ilonry. 

Arago, F. Biography of Condorcet. 

Favre, E. Biographical notice of Louis Agasslz. 

Taylor, W. B. Henry and the telegraph. 

LAUTENBACn, B. F. Irritation of a polarized nervo. 

Wood, H. C. Eesearches upon fever, 

Leconte, J. Constants of nature. 

List of apparatus available for scientific researches. 

Ober, F. a. Ornithology of the Caribbee Islands. 

KxjMLiEN, L. Report of explorations in Greenland. 

Henry, J. Researches in sound. 

342. Contributions to the Xatural History of Arctic Aniericn, made in 

couuectiou with the Howgate Polar Expedition, 1877-78. By 
LUDWIG KuMLiEN. 1879. 8vo., pp. 179. {M.C.,xxiu.) {Bulle- 
tin of the Isaiional Museum^ Ko. 15.) 

contexts. 
KuMLiEN, L. Ethnology, mammals, and birds. 
Bean, T. II. Fishes. 

Vekrill, a. E. Annelids, molluscoids, and radiates. 
Dale, W. II. Mollusks. 
Insects : 

Edwards, W. H. Diurnal lepidoptera. 

Scudder, S. H., and others. Hymenoptera, nocturnal lepidoptera, 
diptera, coleoptera, neuroptera, and arachnida. 
Gkay, a. Plants. 

TUCKERMAN, E. LichcUS. 

Farlow, W. G. Algte. 

343. Annual Eeports of the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, 

Joseph Henry, 1865 to 1877. 1880. 8vo., pp. 548. 

344. Check-list of Publications of the Smithsonian Institution, July, 

1879. 1879. 8vo., pp. 16. (M. C, xvi.) 

345. Annual Report of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Insti- 

tution, for the year 1879. 1880. Forty-sixth Congress, second 
session. Senate Mis. Doc. No. 51. 8vo., pp. 031, 216 wood-cuts 
contexts. 
Baird, S. F. Secretary's report of operations. 
Board of Regexts, Proceedings of. 

Acts and resolutions of Congress relative to the Smithsonian Institution 
and the National Museum. Forty-fifth Congress, third session ; Forty- 
sixth Congress, second session. IS/S-lSdO. 
Report of the National Museum Building Commission. 
Report of the Architects. 

Rhees, W. J. James Smithson and his bequest. 

Kxight, E. H. a study of the savage weapons at the Centennial Exhibi- 
tion, Philadelphia, 187G. 



556 CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 

Anthropology : 

WOKSAAE, J. J. A. The ijrcscrvation of antiquities a,ud national muuu- 

ments in Denmark. 
Havard, V. The French half-breeds of the Northwest. 
NoBRis, P. W. Prehistoric remains in Montana, between Fort Ellis 

and the Yellowstone Eiver. 
Brackett, a. G. The Shoshone or Snake Indians : their religion, 

superstitions, and manners. 
Burr, R. T. Ruins in White River canon, Pima Connty, Ariz. 
Armstrong, T. Mounds in Winnebago County, Wis. 
Anderson, W. G. Mounds near Quincy, 111., and in Wisconsin. 
Evans, S. B. Notes on some of the principal mounds in Des Moines 

Valley. 
Dahlberg, R. N. and C. Composition of ancient pottery found near 
the mouth of Chequest Creek, at Pittsburgh, on the Des Moines 
River. 
Broadhead, G. C. Prehistoric evidences in Missouri. 
Thompson, T. Mounds m Muscatine County, Iowa, and Rock Island 

County, 111. 
ToELLNER, A. Antiquities of Rock Island County, 111. 
Oehler, a. Stone cists near Highland, Madison County, 111. 
Mitchell, B. Mounds in Pike County, Illinois. 
Adams, W. H. Mounds in the Spoon River Valley, 111. 
Quick, E. R. Mounds in Franklin County, Ind. 
Jackman, F. Mounds and earthworks of Rush County, Ind. 
Jones, Jr., C. C. Primitive manufacture of spear and arrow points 

along the line of the Savannah River. 
Gesner, W. Mica beds in Alabama. 
Hough, J. Mounds in Washington County, Miss. 
Brodnax, B. H. Mounds in Moorehouse Parish, Louisiana. 
Beauchamp, W. M. Wampum belts of the Six Nations. 
Andrews, F. D. Indian relics from Schoharie, N. Y. 
Walker, S. T. Preliminary explorations among the Indian mounds in 

southern Florida. 
Walker, S. T. Report on the shell heaps of Tampa Bay, Florida. 
Nutter, F. H., Mounds on Gideon's farm, near Excelsior, Hennepin 

County, Minn. 
Mason, O. T. Summary of correspondence of the Smithsonian Insti- 
tution previous to January 1, 1880, in answer to circular No. 316. 
Mason, O. T. Anthropological investigations during the year 1879. 
BoEiiMER, G. H, Index to papers on anthropology published by the 
Smithsonian Institution, 1847 to 1878. 
PiSKO, F. J. On the present fundamental principles of physics. 
Von Baumhauer, E. H. A universal meteorograph, designed for detached 

observatories. 
HoLDEN, E. S. Reiiorts of American observatories. 

346. Smitbsouiau Contributions to Knowledge. Vol. xxiii. 1881. 
4to., pp. 7GG, IGO wood-cuts, 18 plates of 1G5 figures. 

CONTENTS. 

Clark, II. J. Lucernariaj and their allies. No. 242. 

HiLGARD, E. W. Geology of lower Louisiana and Petite Anse Island. No. 

248. 
Barnard, J. G. Internal structure of the earth. No. 310. 
Elliot, D. G. Classification and synopsis of the trochilidae. No. 317. 
Wood, IT. C. Fever; a stndy iu physiology. No. 3,^7. 



CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 557 

347. Nomeuclature of Clouds. Two litliograi)liic plates. 1851. 8vo. 

348. lieport on tbe Fishes of the Few Jersey Coast, as observed iu the 

Summer of 1854. By Spencer F. Baird. 1855. 8vo.,pp. 40. 

349. Suggestions for the Sanitary Drainage of Washington City. Toner 

Lecture No. viii. Delivered May 26, ]880. By George E. 
Waring, Jr. June, 18S0. 8vo., pp. 20. 

350. A JNIap of the Stars near the North Pole ; for observations on the 

Aurora. Copied from the map used in the Toronto Observations, 
185G. 15 inches by 12 inches. 

351. On the Distribution of the Forests and Trees of North America; 

with notes on its Physical Geography. By J. G. Cooper. 1859. 
8vo., pp. 30, 1 Avoodcut. 

352. Brief Abstract of a series of six Lectures on the Principles of Lin- 

guistic Science. Delivered at the Smithsonian Institution in 
March, 1804. By William D. Whitney. 1804. 8vo.,pp. 22. 

353. Tables and Results of the Precipitation, in Rain and Snow, in the 

United States, and at some stations in adjacent parts of North 
America, and in Central and South America. Collected by tbe 
Smithsonian Institution, and discussed under the direction of 
Joseph Henry and Spencer F. Baird, Secretaries. By Charles 
A. SCHOTT. May, 1881. 4to., pp. 209, 8 wood-cuts, 5 plates, 5 
charts. 

354. Essay on the Velocity of Light. By M. Delaunay. Translated 

for the Smithsonian Institution by Alfred M. Mayer. 1804. 8vo., 
pp. 31. 

355. Ozone and Antozone. By Charles M, Wetiierill. 1804. 8vo., 

pp. 12. 
366. A Memorial of Joseph Henry. (Published by order of Congress.) 
1880. 8vo., pp. 532, 1 plate. 

CONTENTS. 

Introduction. Proceedings in Congress relative to i)ublic commemora- 
tion. 
Part i. — Obsequies of Joseph Henry. 

Waite, M. R. Mortuary announcement. 

Proceedinga of the Board, of Regents. 

Tlie funeral, May 16, 1878. 

IIODGE, C. Prayer at the funeral. 

Mitchell, S. S. Funor.al sermon. 
Part ii.— Memorial Exercises at tue Cai'itol. 

Announcement by Executive Committee of the Regouts. 

McCosH, J. Introductory prayer. 

Hamlin, H. Address. 

Withers, R. E. Address. 

Gray, A. Address. 

Clymer, H. Reading of telegrams. 

Rogers, W. B. Address. 

Garfield, J. A. Address. 



558 CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 

Part ii. — Memorial exercises at the CiO'iTOL— Continued 

Cox, S. S. Address. 

Shermax, W. T. Address. 

Su^^DERLAND, B. Concluding prayer. 
Part hi. — Memorial Proceedings of Societies. 

Proceedings of Philosophical Society of Washington. 

Proceedings of the Albany Institute. 

Meads, O. Memorial minute. 

Proceedings of the United States Light-House Board. 

DOD, S. B. Memorial discourse. 

Camerox, H. C. Eeminiscences. 

Welling, J. C. Memorial address. 

Taylor, W. B, Memorial address. 

LOVERIXG, J. Obituary memoir. 

Newcomb, S. Biographical memoir. 

Mayer, A. M. Memorial address. 
Appendix. Proceedings in Congress regarding the erection of a 
monument f oJoseph Henry. 

367. Fever: A study in Morbid and Kormal Physiology. By Horatio 
C. Wood. January, 1878. 4to.,pp. 263, 16 wood-cuts, 5 plates 
of 16 figures. ( S. C, xxiii.) 

358. The Constants of ISTature. Part iv. Atomic Weight Determina- 

tions : A Digest of the Investigations published since 1814. 
By George F. Becker. August, 1880. 8vo.,pp. 152. 

359. A Planisi)here of the Visible Heavens, extending to 40^ of south 

declination, for observations on Meteoric displays. Prepared by 
a Committee of the Connecticut Academy of Arts and Sciences. 
1864. 30 inches by 2U inches. 

360. Palafittes, or Lacustrian Constructions of the Lake of Ii^euchatel. 

ByE.DESOR. Translated for the Smithsonian Institution. 1865. 
8vo., pp. 53, 118 wood-cuts. 

361. An account of the Aboriginal Inhabitants of the California Penin- 

sula, as given by Jacob Baegert, a German Jesuit missionary, 
who lived there seventeen years during the second half of the last 
century. Translated and arranged for the Smithsonian Institu- 
tion, by Charles Rau. 1865. 8vo., pp. 41. 

362. Artificial Shell-deposits in New Jersey. By Charles Rau. 1865. 

8vo., pp. 6, 1 wood cut. 

363. Instructions for collecting Land and Fresh Water Shells. By 

James Lewis. 1866. 8vo., pp. 8. 

364. Outline of a Systematic Review of the Class of Birds. By W. Lil- 

LJEBORG. Translated for the Smithsonian Institution. 1866. 
8vo., i)p. 16. 

365. Notes on the Tinneh or Chepewyan Indians of British and Russian 

America. 1. The Eastern Tinneh, by Bernard R. Ross. 2. The 
Loucheux Indians; by William L. Hardisty. 3. TheKutchin 
Tribes; by Strachan Jones. Compiled by George Gibbs. 
1866. 8vo., pp. 25, 11 wood-cuts. 



CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 559 

366. Directions for Collecting-, Picserving, and Transporting Specimens 

of Diatomacea, and other Microscopic Organisms. By Autiiur 
M. Edwards. 1807. 8vo., pp. 7. 

367. Sketch of the Flora of Alaska. By J. T. Kothrock. 1807. 8vo., 

pp. 33. 

368. Indian Pottery. By Charles Kau. 1807. Svo., pp. 11, 9 wood- 

cnts. 

369. Doipat and Ponlkova. By Cleveland Ai5EE. 1807. 8vo., pp. 23. 

370. A Deposit of Agricultural Flint Implements found in Southern Illi- 

nois. By Charles Kau. 1808. Svo., pp. 9, 5 wood-cuts. 

371. The Metric System of Weights and Measures, with Tables. Pre- 

pared for the Smithsonian Institution. By U. A. Kewion. 1808. 
8vo., pp. 23. 

372. Drilling in Stone without the use of Metal. By Charles Eau. 

1809. 8vo., pp. 11, 12 woodcuts. 

373. Meteorological Stations, and Observers of the Smithsonian Insti- 

tution, in ISIorth America and adjacent islands, from the year 
1819 to the end of the year 1808. 1809. 8vo., pp. 42, 

374. Three EaiuCiiarts of the United States, showing the distribution 

by Isohyetal lines of the mean precipitation in rain and melted 
snow. 1, for the Summer months; 2, for the Winter months; 3 
for the Year. 1870. 20 inches by 11 inches. 

375. Thoughts on the Xaturc and Origin of Force. By William B. 

Taylor. 1870. 8vo.,pp. 19. 

376. On the Chemistry of the Earth. By T. Sterry Hunt. 1871. 8vo., 

pp. 20. 

377. TiieDiamond and other Precious Stones. By M. Babinet. Trans- 

lated for the Smithsonian Institution by John Stearns. 1872. 
8vo., pp. 33. 

378. The Language of the Dakota or Sioux Indians. By F. L. O. Bceh- 

RiG. 1872. Svo., pp. 19. 

379. Eulogy on Prof. Alexander Dallas Bache, late Superintendent of 

the U. S. Coast Survey, President of tlie National Academy of 
Sciences, etc. By Joseph Henry. 1872. .Svo , pp. 28. 

380. The Scientific Education of Mechanics and Artisans. By Andrew 

P. Peabody. 1873. 8vo., pp. 13. 

381. Temperature Chart of the United States, showing the distribution 

by Isothermal lines, of the mean temperature for the Year. 1873. 
10^ Inches by lOi^ inches. 

382. IsTorth American Stone Imi)lemeuts. By Charles Eau. 1873. 

8vo., pp. 10, 7 wood-cuts. 

383. Archreological Eesearches in jSTicaragua. By J. F. Bransford. 

1881. 4to., pp. 100, 202 wood-cuts, 2 plates of 40 figures. 



560 CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 

384. Circular in reference to SLii^iing Fresh Fish and other Animals. 

By S. F. Baikd. 1881. 8vo., pp. 4. 

385. Ancient Aboriginal Trade in liTorth America. By Charles Eau. 

1873. 8vo., pp. 49. 

386. Explanation of the Principles of Crystallography and Crystallo- 

physics. By Aristides Brezina. Translated for the Smith- 
sonian Institution, by T. Egleston. 1874. 8vo., pp. 36. 

387. Three Temperature Charts of the United States, showing the dis- 

tribution, by Isothermal curves, of the mean temperature of the 
lower atmosphere. 1, for the Summer months j 2, for the Win- 
ter months ; 3, for the Year. 1874. 28 J inches by 19| inches. 

388. Temperature Chart of the United States, showing the distribution, 

by Isothermal lines, of the mean temperature for the year. 

1874. 20 inches by 13i inches. 

389. An Account of Investigations relative to Illuminating Materials. 

(From the Light-Ilouse Board Eeport for 1875.) By Joseph 
IIenry. 1881. 8vo., pp. 25. 

390. On Tides and Tidal Action in Harbors. By Julius E. Hilgard. 

1875. 8vo., pp. 22, 15 wood-cuts. 

391. An act to establish the Smithsonian Institution, etc. Revised 

Statutes. Title Lxxiii. 1875. 8vo., pp. 10. 

392. The Prehistoric Antiquities of Hungary. An address delivered by 

F. F. RoMER, at the Opening of the International Anthropolog- 
ical Congress, held at Budapest, September, 1870. Translated 
for the Smithsonian Institution, by Charles Eau. 1877. 8vo., 
pp. 9. 

393. The Mound Builders, and Platycnemism in Michigan. By 

Henry Gillman. 1874. 8vo , pp. 28, 12 wood- cuts. Also, 
Certain Characteristics pertaining to Ancient Man in Michigan. 
By Henry Gillman. 1877. 8vo., pp. 13, 13 wood-cuts. 

394. The Stone Age in Kew Jersey. By C. C. Abbott. 1877. 8vo., 

pp. 130, 58 plates of wood-cuts, containing 223 ligures. 

395. Kinetic Theories of Gravitation. By William B. Taylor. 

1877. 8vo., pp. 80. 

396. Notes on the History and Climate of New Mexico. By TnoMi s A. 

McParlin. 1877. 8vo., pp. 30. 

397. The Latimer Collection of Antiquities from Porto Eico, in the 

National Museum at Washington, D. C. By Otis. T Mason., 
1877. 8vo., pp. 23. 14 plates of wood-cuts, containing 00 fig- 
ures. 

398. Short Memoirs on Meteorological Subjects. By Julius Hann; L 

Sohncke; Theodore Eeye; William Ferrel ; A. Coldiug; andM. 
Peslin. Compiled and Translated for the Smithsonian Insti- 
tution by Cleveland Abbe. 1878. 8vo., pp. 104. 



r'ATALOGUi: OF PUBLICATIONS 561 

399. Color bliiuiiK'.ss in its Kehitions to Accideuts by Kail and Sea. 

IJy FiiiTHioF Holmgren. Translated for the Smithsonian 
Institution by ]\I. L. Duncan. 1S78. 8vo., pp. Tli, 5 wood-cuts. 

400. Aboriginal Structures in Georgia. By Cuarlks C. Joa^ks, Jr. 

1878. 8vo., pp. 13, ."> wood cuts. 

401. On the change of tlie .Mexican Axolotl to an Amblystonia. I'.y 

August WEis:\rANN. Translated for the Smithsonian Institu- 
tion by Henry ]\r. Douglass. 1878. 8vo., pp. 2'J. 

402. Tlie Stock in-Trade of an Aboriginal Lapidary. By Charles 

Bau. 1878. 8vo., i)p. 9, IG wood cuts. 

403. Observations on a Gold Ornament found in a 3Iound in Florida. 

By Charles Bai^ 1878. Svo., pp. 0. 1 wood-cut. 

404. On a Bolychronic Bead from Florida. By S. S. IIaldeman. 

1878. 8vo., pp. G, 2 wood-cuts. 

405. An Historical Sketch ol" Henry's Contribution to the Electro-Mag- 

netic Telegraph; with an account of the origin and develop- 
n)ent of Professor Morse's invention. By William B. Taylor. 
1870. 8vo., pp. 103. 

406. A Suiumaiy of Researches in Sound conducted in the service of 

the »•'. S. Light-House Board, by Joseph Henry, during the 
years 18G5 to 1877. 1879. 8vo., pp. IOC, 12 wood-cuts. 

407. Biographical Memoir of Joseph Henry. Pre]>ared in behalf of the 

Board of Kegeuts. . By Asa Gray. 1879. 8vo., pp. 35. 

408. Report of the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, for the year 

1878. By S. F. Baird. 1879. 8vo., pp. GO. 

409. Report of the National 3Iuseum Building Commission, and of the 

Architects, for 1879. 1880. 8vo., pp. 18, 2 folding plates. 

410. Reports of Astronomical Observatories for 1879, By E. S. Holden. 

1880. 8vo., pp. GO. 

411. The effect of Irritation of a polarized Xerve. By B. F. Lauten- 

BAOH. 1880. 8vo., pp. 59. 

412. On the Zoological Position of Texas. By Edward D. Cope. 1880. 

8vo., pp. 55. (BuUetiu of the National Mnseion, yo. 17.) 

413. Exhibit of the Fisheries and Fish Culture of the United States of 

America, at the Internationale Fischerei Ausstellung, at Berlin, 
April 20, 1880, and forming a part of the collection of the Na- 
tional Museum, made by the LT. S. Fish Commission. Prepared 
under the direction of G. Brown Goode. 1-"'80. 8vo,, pp. 279. 
{Btdlcfln of the NatUntal Museum, No. 18.) 

414. Base Chart of the United States. Prepared by ChAKLES A, 

Schott. ISSO. (28^V X 19.^ inches.) 
H. Mis. 170 e« 



662 CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 

415. A Study of the Savage Weapons at the Ceuteuiiial Exhibition, 

Philadelphia, 1876. By Edward H. Knight. 1880. 8vo., pp. 
90, 147 wood-cuts. 

416. Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections. Vol. xix. 1880. 8vo., 

pp. 1034. 

CONTEXTS. 

Proceediugs of the U. S. National Museum. Vol. i. 1878. No. 332. 
Proceedings of the U. S. National Museum. Vol. ii. 1879. No. 333. 

417. Henry as a Discoverer. A Memorial Address, delivered before the 

American Association for the Advancement of Science, August 
26, 1880. By Alfred M. Mayer. 1880. 8vo., pp. 36. 

418. Eeport of the Secretary of the Smithsonian lustitutiou, for the 

year 1879. By Spencer F. Baird. 1880. 8vo., pp. 76. 

419. Eeport of the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, for the 

year 1880. By Spencer F. Baird. 188 L 8vo., pp. 88. 

420. Anthropological Investigations in 1879. By Otis T.Mason. 1881. 

8vo., PI). 30. 

421. Index to Anthropological Articles in Publications of the Smith- 

sonian Institution. By George H. Bcehmer. 1881. 8vo., 
pp. 10. 

422. Nomenclature of North American birds chiefly contained in the 

U. S. National Museum. By Robert Eidgway. 1881. 8vo., 
pp. 94. {Bulletin of the National Museum, No. 21.) 

423. Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections. Vol. xx. 1881. 8vo., 

pp. 786. 

CONTENTS. 

Bulletin of the Philosophical Society of Washington : 
Vol. I, March, 1871, to June, 1874, pp. 158. 
Vol. II, October 10, 1874, to November 2, 1878, pp. 452. 
Vol. in, November 9, 1878, to June 19, 1880, pp. 169. 

424. Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections. Vol. xxi. 1881. 8vo., 

pp. 773, 42 wood-cuts, 13 plates. 

CONTENTS. 

Eheks, W. J. James Smithson and his bequest. No. 330. 

Smithson, J. Scientific writings. No. 327. 

Johnson, W. R. Scientific character and researches of Smithson. No. 327. 

Irby, J. R. McD. The works and character of Smithson. No. 327. 

A memorial of Joseph Henry. No. 3.56. 

425. Proceedings of the U. S. National Museum for 1880. Vol. iii. 

1881. 8vo., pp. 595, 5 cuts, 2 plates. 

CONTEXTS. 

Bkan, T. H. Description of a new hake (Fhycis earlii) from South Caro- 
lina, and a note on the occurrence of rinjcis regius in North Carolina. 

Check-list of duplicates of North American fishes distributed by the Smith- 
sonian Institution in behalf of the IJ. S. National Museum, 1877-'80. 



CATALOGUE OF PUBLICAllONS. 



5G3 



Cattik, S. T. On the gt;i)it:ilia of male eels aiul their sexual characters. 

Endlich, F. M. List of species and varieties of minerals in the National 
Museum of the United States in 1879. 

Garman, S. Synopsis and descriptions of the Amerie.m nhhiohatidw. 

Gill, T.' On the identity of the genus Leuriimiis Lnckinf,'ton, with L'jeo- 
dopsis Collett. 

GOODK, G. B. Descriptions of seven new species of fishes from deep sound- 
ings on the southern New England coast, with diagnoses of two unde- 
scribed genera of flounders and a genus related to Mcrhichts. 

Fishes from the deep waters on the south coast of New England obtained by 
the U. S. Fish Commission in the summer of IHHO. 

The frigate macterel {Juxls nochei) on the New Englnnd coast. 

Notacantlms phasganorus, a new species of Kotacanthida; from the Grand 
Banks of Newfoundland. 

Hay, O. p. On a collection of fishes from eastern Mississiitpi. 

Heii'pRIN, a. On some new species of eocene moUusca from the Southern 

United States. . 

Jordan, D. S. Notes on a collection of fishes from east Florida, obtained 

bv J. A. Henshall. 
Notes' on a collection of fishes from St. John's River, Florida, obtained 

by A. H. Curtiss. 

Note on a forgotten paper of Dr. Ayres. and its bearing on the no- 
menclature of the cyprinoid fishes of the San Francisco markets. 

Note on '' Sema" and " Dacentnt.'<." 

Description of a new species of Caranx {Caranx Bcani), from Beaufort, 

N. C. 
Jordan, D. S. ; Gilbkkt, C. H. Notes on a collection of fishes from San 

Diego, Cal. 
Description of new fiounder iXystreimjs liolepis), from Santa Catalma 

Island, California. 
Description of a new ray {FlalijrMna triscnata), from the coast of 

California. 
Description of a new species of "rock cod" {Sehastkhthys Htrnceps), 

from the coast of California. 
On the occurrence of CejjhaloscylUum laticcps (Dum6ril) Gill on the 

coast of California. 
On the oil shark of southern California {Galeorhinus galeus). 
Description of a new flounder CPliuronicltthjs verticalis), from the coast 

of California, with notes on other species. 
Notes on sharks from the coast of California. 
On the o-eneric relations of Platyrhvia exasperata. 
Description of a new species of Sehastichthys {SebastichtJiys miniatas), 

from Monterey Bay, California.' 
Description of a new species of "rock fish" {Sehastichthys carmttis), 

from the coast of California. 
Description of a new species of ray {Baia s(elhdaia), from Monterey, 

California. 

Description of a new species of Xiphhler and Jpodichlhy^, trom Mon- 
terey, Cal. 

Description of two new species of Sibasfichthys {Sehashchthys entomcJas 
and Sehaslkhtlnis rliodochloris), from Monterey Bay, Calilorma. 

Description of a new agonoid fish iBrachwpsls xyosterxm), from Mon- 
terey Bay, California. 

Description of a new flounder {mjnwilosaQides exj?j.s). irom the coast 
of California, 



564 CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 

Jordan, D. S. ; Gilbert, C. H. — Coiitiuued. 

Description of a new species of ray {Eaia rhina) from the coast of 

California. 
Description of two new species of fishes {Asc(Udh;js rhodorus and 

Sfytalina cerdale), from Neali Bay, Wasbingtou Territory. 
Description of two new species of scopeloid fishes {Sudis ringexs and 

Myctopltum crenulart), from Santa Barbara Channel, California. 
Description of two new species of flounders {Parojyin-ys isclnjuriis and 

Ilippo(jl()ssoides elassodon), from Puget Soiuul. 
Description of seven new species of sebastoid fishes, from the coast of 

California. 
Description of a new emhiotocoid( Jteojia aurora), from Monterey, Cal., 

with notes on a related species. 
Description of a new flounder ( Pkdy^omaikhthys slomio.fi), from the coast 

of California. 
Description of a new enibiotocoid (Jsh {Cymalogaslcr rosaceus), from the 

coast of California. 
Description of a new species of deep-water fish (Icichthys Loclingtonx), 

from the coast of California. 
Description of anew enibiotocoid fish {Biircma atrip(s), from the coast 

of California. 
Description of a new scorpieuoid fish {Sehastichthys maViger), from the 

coast of California. 
Description of anew scorpieuoid fish {Scbastichthys prorigcr), from Mon- 
terey Bay, California. 
Description of anew agouoid (J<;oh)(.s r«/sHs), from the coast of Cali- 
fornia. 
Description of a new species of Hemirhaynphus {Hcmirhamjilius Eosa), 

from the coast of California. 
Description of a new species or notidanoid shark (Hexanchus corinus), 

from the Pacific coast of the United States. 
Description of a new species of Xemichthys (Nemichtliys avocctta), from 

Puget Sound. 
Description of a new species of raralepis {Paralepis cornscans), from 

the Straits of Juari de Fuca. 
List of the fishes of the Pacific coast of the United States, with a (able 

showing the distribution of the species. 
On the generic relations of Belone exilis (Girard). 
Notes on a collection of fishes from Utah Lake. 
■ Description of a new species of rockfish {Sclastichlhys chrysomclas), from 

the coast of California. 
Lawrence, G. N. Description of a new species of bird of the family 

Turdidw, from the island of Dominica, West Indies. 
Descrij)tiou of a new species of parrot of the genus Chrysotis, from the 

island of Dominica. 
Description of a new species of Icterus, from the West Indies. 
LOCKINGTON, W. N. Eemarks on the species of the genus Chirus, found in 

San Francisco market, including one hitherto undescribed. 
Description of a new fish from Alaska ( Uranidea microstoma). 
Description of a new species of Agonida^ (Brachyojysis verrvcosun), from 

the coast of California. 
Description of a new genus and some new species of California fishes 

{Icostcns wnigmuiicus and Osmcrus attcnuatus). 
Description of a new chiroid lish {Myriulcpis zonifer), from Monterey 

JBay, California. 



CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. ^65 

L(H MNiiToN, W. N.— CoutimuMl. 

Description of a lu^.^y sparoi.! llsh (Spavus hmchnsomus), iiom Lowei 

California. , . ., i * ^f 

Note on a new th.t tisl, (L.j.uZoiJ.sc^a i.so^.i.i.s). found .n the n.arkets of 

San Francisco. 
Description of a. new species of rrionotus iPnomtMs ,.tcphcnwi>hn,s), 
from the coast of California. 
Rathhux, R. The littoral marine launa of Trovincetown, Capo Cod, Massa- 

Ki^^i^'R. Revisions ..fnonu-nclature of certain Nor!h An.erican birds. 
A catalofnie of the birds of North America. 

Catalogue of TrochUida'. in the collection of the U. S. National Museuu,. 
RYDEK J. A. On C«m«n»;)/i»/sema,ancwtypeofspongc. 

List of the North American species of myriapods belonging to the 
family of the Ly^^wprtalida', with a description of a blind form Irom 
Luray Cave, Virginia. 
Smith, R. On the occurrence of a species of Crnnuohates at San Diego, 

Smith' S I. Freliminarv notice of the Crustacea dredged in 64 to 32r, 
faihoms off the south coast of New England by the U. S. Fish Comuus- 

SwAx'V V"^ The surf smelt of the northwest coast, and the method of 

' ' taking them by the Quillehnte Indians, west coast of Washington 
Territory. 

The eulachon or candle fish of the northwest coast. 
Veruill a. E. Notice of recent additions to the niariuo invertehrata ot 
ihe northeastern coast of America, with descriptions of new genera 
and species, and critical remarks on others. 

Part n.-Mollasca, with notes on Anndlda, Echuwdermata, etc., col- 
lected by the U. S. Fish Commission. 

Part iii.-Catalogne of moUusca recently added to the fauna of south- 
ern New England. . 
White, C. A. Note on the occurrence of Prodnenus gUj^mteu^ m California. 

Note on Acrothele. . 

Description of a new cretaceous rhnrn from New Mexico. 

Note on the occurrence of Stridclandia salfcri and S. davulsom >" Georg a. 

Description of a very large fossil gasteropod, from the State of Pnebla, 

Mexico. . , 

Descriptions of new invertebrate fossils, from the mesozoic and ceno- 
zoic rocks of Arkansas, Wyoming, Colorado, and Utah. 

426. A Synopsis of the Scientific Writings of Sir William Herschel. 
By Edward S. Holden and Charles fi. Hastings. 1881. 

427 Record of Recent Progress in Science, 1879 and 1880. Astronomy. 
By Edward S. Holden. 1881. 8vo., pp. 30. 

428. Record of Recent Progress in Science, 1879 -^^ l^^^' ^^^;;^^[ 

and Mineralogy. By George W. H awes. l88l. 8xo.,pp.dO. 

429. Record of Recent Progress in Science, 1879 ^^^^^^^^J^"^'^ 

and Chemistry. By George F. Barker. 1881. 8no.,pp.O.. 

430. Record of Recent Progress i.) Science, 1879 and 1880. Botany 

By Wm. G. Faklow. 1881. Svo., pp. 1^- 



566 oataLogue op publications. 

431. liecord of Eecent Progress in Scieuce, 1879 tiii<l 1880. Zoology. 

liy Theodore Gill. 1881. 8vo., pp. .02. 

432. Record of Recent Progress in Scieuce, 1880. Anthropology. By 

Ctls T. Mason. 1881. 8vo., pp. 51. 

433. Re])ort of a visit to the Luray Cavern, in Page County, Va., under 

the auspices of the Smithsonian Institution, July 13 and 11, 

1880. 1881. 8vo., pp. 12, 6 wood-cuts. 

434. Report of the National Museum Building Commission and of the 

Architects for 1880. 1881. 8vo., pp. 12. 

435. Discussion of the Barometric Observations of E. S. Snell. By F. 

H. Loud. 1881. 8vo , pp. 23, 7 wood-cuts. 

436. List of Periodicals received by the Smithsonian Institution. 

1881. 8vo., pp. 9. 

437. Check-list of Publications of the Smithsonian Institution to Decem- 

ber, 1881. 1881. 8vo., pp. 22. 

438. Reports of Astronomical Observatories for 1880. By B. S. Holden 

and George H. Boehmer. 1881. 8vo., pp. 128. 

439. Warming and Ventilating Occupied Buildings. By Arthur 

MoRiN. Translated for the Smithsonian Institution by Clarence 
B. Young. 1882. 8vo., pp. 92, 32 wood-culs. 

440. Articles on Anthropological Subjects contributed to the Annual 

Reports of the Smithsonian Institution from 1863 to 1877. By 
Charles Rau. 1882. 8vo., pp. 180, 53 wood-cuts. 

CONTENTS. 

Eau, C, Preface by. (February, 1S82.) 

Baegert, J. Accouut of the aborigiuul iuliabitauts of the Californiau 
peninsula. Translated and arranged for the Smithsonian by Charles 
Ran. From Smithsonian Report for 1863-'64. No. 361. 

Agricultural implements of the North American stone period. From Re- 
port for 1863. 

Artificial shell deposits in New Jersey. From Report for 1864. No. 362. 

Indian pottery. From Report for 1866. No. 368. 

Drilling in stone without metal. From Report for 1868. No. 372. 

Deposit of agricultural flint implements in southern Illinois. From Report 
for 1868. No. 370. 

Memoir of C. F. P. Von Martins. From Report for 1869. No. 251. 

Ancient aboriginal trade in North America. From Report for 1872. No. 
385. 

North American stone implements. From Report for 1872. No. 382. 

ROMER, F. F. Prehistoric antiquities of Hungary. Translated by Charles 
Rau. From Report for 1876. No. 392. 

Stock in trade of an aboriginal lapidary. From Report for 1877. No. 402. 

Observations on a gold ornament from a mound in Florida. From Report 
for 1877. No. 403. 

441 The Constants of Nature. Party. A Recalculation of the Atomic 
Weights. By P'rank Wigglesworth Clarke, 1882. 8vo., 
pp. 293. 



CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 567 

442. Aiiiiu;ir ivi'])uit of the lioaid of FegoutvS of the Suiith.soniaii liisti 
tiitioii, for the year 1880. Forty sixth Congress, third session, 
Senate Mis. Doe. No. :U. 1881, 8vo., }ip. 782, 13 wood-euts. 

CONTEXTS. 

Baird, S. F. Secretary's report of operations. 

List of periodicals received by tlie Institution. 

Rules for the examination of specimens subtnitted to the Institution. 

Taylor, F. W. Kejiort of the chemist. 

Additions to the collections of the National Museum. 

Additions to Museum by the Berlin luteruatioual Fisheries Exhibition. 

Stevenson, J. Report of explorations in Ne-y Mexico and Arizona. 

Receipts and distribution of specimens. 

GooDE, G. B. The first decade of the U. S. Fish Commission. . 

Report of the Executive Committee on the Henry Statue. 

Report of the Executive Committee for 18d0. 

Board op Regents, Proceedings of. 

Reijort of the National Museum Building Commission for 1880. 

Report of the Superinteuding Architects of the Museum Building. 

Record of Recent Scientific Progress • 

Baird, S. F. Introduction. 

Holden, E. S. Astronomy. 

Hawes, G. W. Geology. 

Barker, G. F. Physics. 

Barker, G. F. Chemistry. 

Hawes, G. W. Mineralogy. 

Farlow, W. G. Botany. 

Gill, T. Zoology. 

Mason, O. T. Anthropology. 
Mason, O. T. Biljliography of anthropology. 
Mason, 0. T. Abstracts of anthropological correspoudeuce. 
Mason, O. T. Report on Luray Cavern. 

Loud, F. H. Discussiou of Professor Snell's barometric observations. 
Henry, J. Investigation of illumiuating materiaLs. 
Holden, E. S. ; Hastings, C. S. Synopsis of the scientific writings of 

William Herschel. 
Holden, E. S. ; Bcehmer, G. H. Reports of astronomical observatories. 

443. Results of Meteorological Observations made at Providence, R. I., 

extending over a period of forty-five years, from I )eceuiber, 1831, 
to December, 187G. By Alexis Caswell. 1882. 4to., pp. 40. 

444. Guide to the Flora of Washington and V'ieinity. By Lester F. 

Ward. 1881. 8vo., pp. 2G5. One map. {Bulletin of the National 
Museum^ Wo. 22.) 

445. Plan of Organization and Regulations of the U. S. National Mu- 

seum. By G. Beow^n Goode. 1882. 8vo., pp. 58. Two 
wood-cuts. {Circular of U. S. Kational 3Iuseum^ No. 1.) 

446. Circular addressed to Friends of the Museum. By Spencer F. 

Baird. 1882. Svc, pp. 2. {Circular of U. S. National Museum 
No. 2.) 



568 CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 

447. Circular iu reference to Petroleum Collections. By Spejscer F. 

Baird. 1882. 8vo,j pp. 4. {Circidar of U. S. National Museum 
No. 3.) 

448. Circular concerning' the Department of Insects. By Spencer F. 

Baird. 1882. 8vo.,pp. 2. {Circular of U. S. National Museum, 
No. 4.) 

449. Eslablishuient and Lfticers of the Smithsonian Institution and Na- 

tional Museum, January 1, 1882. 1882. 8vo,j pp. 2. {Circular 
of U. 8. National Museum, No. 5.) 

450. Classification and arrangement of the Materia Medica Collection. 

By James M. Flint. 1882. 8vo., pp. 2. {Circular of U. 8. 
ivational Museum, No. 6.) 

451. A Classification of the Forms in which Drugs and Medicines apx)eaT, 

and are administered. By James M. Flint. 1882. 8vo., pp. 
8. {Circular of U. 8. National Museum, No. 7.) 

452. Memoranda for Collectors of Drugs for the Materia Medica Section 

of the National Museum. By James M. Flint. 1882. 8vo., 
pp. 2. {Circular of U. 8. National Museum, No. 8.) 

453. Circular in reference totheBuilding-Stone Collection. By Spencer 

F. Baird. 1882. 8vo., pp. 0. {Circular of TJ. 8. National Mu- 
seum, No. ',).) 

454. Two letters on the work of the National Museum. By Baenet 

Phillips. 1882. 8vo., pp. 10. {Circular of U. 8. National 
Museum, No. 10.) 

455. AProvisional Classification of the Fooa Collections. By G.Brown 

GooDE. 1882. 8vo., pp. 18. {Circular of U. 8. National Mu- 
seum, No. 11.) 

456. Classification of the Collections of the U. S. National Museum to 

illustrate the Art of Taxidermy. By W. T. Hornaday. 1882. 
8vo., pp. 2. {Circular of U. 8. Natioiial Museum, No. 12.) 

457. Outline of a Scheme of Classification for the Collections in the U. 

S. National Museum. By G. Brown Goode. 1882. 8vo., pp. 
4. {Circular of IT. 8. National Museum, No. 13.) 

458. Circular requesting material for the Library of the U. S. National 

Museum. By Spencer. F. Baird. 1882. 8vo., pp. 4. {Circu. 
lar of U. 8. National Museum No. 11.) 

459. The Organization and Objects of the U. S. National Museum. By 

G. Brown Goode. 1882. 8vo., pp. 4. {Circular of TJ. 8. Na- 
tional Museum No. 15.) 

460. Directions for Collecting and Preserving Plants. By Lester F. 

Ward. 1882. 8vo., pp. 32. 

461. Check-List. Flora of Washington and Vicinity. By Lester F. 

Ward. 1882. 8vo., pp. G2. 



CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 569 

462. Catalogue of Old World lUrds in the U. 8. National Museum. l>y 

KOBEUT lilDGWAV. 188U. 8vo., \)]). L'O. 

463. Bibliogiapliy oftbe FisLes of tlie Pacilic Coast of the United States, 

to the end of IST'J. By Theodore Gill. 1882, 8vo., j)}). 77. 
(INl. C, xxin.) {lUdlet'm of National Miiscnm No. II.) 

464. DinH'tions for Collecting and Preserving Fisli. By Tarleton II. 

Bean. 1881. 8vo., pp. G. 

465. List of Marijie Invertehrates, mainly from the New England Coast, 

distributed by the U. S. National Museum. Series ii. By 

lilCHARD RATHBUN. 1881. 8vo., pp. (5. 

466. Directory of Oflicers, Collaborators, Employes, etc., of the Smith- 

sonian Institution, National Museum, Geological Survey, Bureau 
of Ethnology, and Fish Commission, 1882. 8vo,, i)p, 8. 

467. rroceedings of the U. S. National Museum for 1881. Vol. iv. 1882. 

8vo., pp. GOO, 13 cuts, 2 plates. (M. C, xxii.) 

CONTENTS. 

Baiki), S. 1'. Notes on certain ahori^iiial shell inouud.s on tlio coasr of 

New Biiinswick ami of Nesv England. 
Bean, T. H. Descriptions of new si)ecics of lishes { Vranldcn marginaia, 
Potamocottiis Bendiei) and of Myctophiim crcnulare .1. and G. 
Notes on .some ti.sbcs from Hnd.sou's Bay. 
Descriptions of new li.shes f rom Alaska and Siberia. 
Directions for collecting and preserving tish. 

A preliminary catalogue of the fishes of Alaskan and adjacent waters. 
A partial bibliography of the fisbes of the Pacitic coast of the United 

States and of Alaska, for tbe year 1^80. 
Notes on a collection of fishes made by Capt. Henry E. Nichols, U. S. 
Navy, in British Columbia and Southern Alaska, with descriptions 
of new species and a new genus (Dclolepin). 
See also under Goode and liean. 
Bendire, C. Notes on Salmonidcr of the upper Columbia. 
Boyd, C. H. Ivemaius of the walrus (?) in Maine. 
Carlin, W. I]. Observations of Sircdon lichenoides. 
Dall, W. H. On the genera of chitons. 

On certain limjjets and cbitons from the deep waters off the eastern 
coast of the United States. 
Endlich, F. M. An analysis of water destructive to fish in the Gulf of 

Mexico. 
Farlow, W. G, Keport on the contents of two bottles of water from the 

Gulf of Mexico, forwarded by the Smithsonian Institution. 
Gilbert, C. H. See under .Jordan and Gilbert. 
Gill, T. Note on the Latiloid genera. 
Glazier, W. C. W. On the destruction of fish by polluted waters in the 

Gulf of Mexico. 
GooOE, G. B. The Taxonomic relations and geographical distribution of 

the members of the swordfish family (Xipliiida). 
GooDE, G. B. ; Bean, T. H. Description of a new species of fish, Apoyon 
pandiouis, from the deep water off the mouth of Chesapeake Bay. 
BentJwdcsmus, a new genus of deep-sea fishes, allied to Lepidopus. 



570 CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 

Hawes, G. W. On the miueralogical composition of the normal mesozoic 
diabase upon tbe Atlantic border. 
On tbe determination of feldspar in thin sections of rocks. 
IXGERSOLL, E. On the fish mortality in the Gulf of Mexico. 
Japanese Legation, Washington. Catalogue of a collection of Japanese 
cotton fiber presented to the U. S. National Museum by the Govern- 
ment of Japan, together with the amount of the annual crop of Japan 
and the price of cotton. 
Johnson, S. H. Notes on the mortality among fishes of the Gulf of 

Mexico. 
Jordan, D. S. ; Jouy, P. L. Check-list of duplicates of fishes from the 
Pacific coast of North America, distributed by the Smithsonian Insti- 
tution in behalf of the U. S. National Museum, 1881. 
Jordan, D. S. ; Gilbert, C. H. Notes on the fishes of the Pacific coast of 
the United States. 
Description of Sthastichthijs mijslinus. 
Description of a new species of Ptychochilus {riychovhilits Harfordi) 

from Sacramento River. 
Note on Baia inornata. 

Notes on a collection of fishes, made by Lieut. Henry E. Nichols, U. S. 
Navy, on the west coast of Mexico, with descriptions of new 
species. 
List of fishes collected by Lieut. Henry E. Nichols, U. S. Navy, in the 
Gulf of California and on the west coast of Lower California, witli 
descriptions of four new species. 
Descriptions of thirty-three new species of fishes from Mazatlan, 

Mexico. , 

Description of a new species of Pomadasijs from Mazatlan, with a key 
to the species known to inhabit the Pacific coasts of tropical 
America. 
Description of a new species of Xenichthi/s (Xeiiichthys xenurus) from 

the west coast of Central America. 
Descriptions of five new species of fishes from Mazatlan, Mexico. 
Jouy, P, L. Description of a new species of Squalins {Squalius alicUe) from 

Utah Lake. 
Lawrence, G. N. Description of a new sub-species of LoxigUla from the 

island of St. Christopher, West Indies. 
LoCKiNGTON, W. N. Description of a new genus and species of' Cottidce. 
Lugger, O. The occurrence of the Canada porcupine in Maryland. 
McKay, C. L. A review of the genera and species of the family Centrarch- 

idce, with a description of one new species. 
Moore, M. A. Fish mortality in the Gulf of Mexico. 
PiRZ, A. Methods of. making and preserving plaster casts. 
Plateau, F. The rapid jireparation of large myological sjiecimens. 
Porter, J. Y. On the destruction of fish by poisonous water in the Gulf 

of Mexico. 
Rathbun, R. List of marine invertebrates, mainly' from the New England 
coast, distributed by the U. S. National Museum. (Series ii.) 
List of marine invertebrates from the New England coast, distributed 
by the U. S. National Museum. (Series iii.) 
Rau, C. List of anthropological publications by. 
RiDGWAY, R. On a duck new to the North American fauna. 

On Amazilia Yucatanensis, Cabot, and A.cerv'i)uve>itris,GoiM. 
A review of the genus Centurus, Swainsoa. 



Catalogue of public atioxs. 571 

ElDGWAV, K.—Couti lined. 

List of species of Middle and South American birds not contained iu 
the U. S. National Musenin. 

List of special desiderata among North American Ijirds. 

Catalogue of Old World birds in the U. S. National Museum. 

Notes on some Costa Kican birds. 

Description of a new lly-catcher, and a supposed new petrel, from tbo 
Sandwich Islands. 

Description of a new owl from Porto Kico. 

Descriptions of two new thrushes from the United States. 

On two recent additions to the North American bird fauna, by L. 
Belding. 
Ryder, J. A. On Semper's method of making dry preparations. 
Shufeldt, R. W. Remarks ujion the osteology of Ophcosatirus vevtraJis. 
Smith, R. Description of a new Gobioid tish {Olhonopa cos), from Sau 
Diego, Cal. 

Description of a new species of Gobiesox {Gohicsox rhcssodou), from 
San Diego, Cal. 
Smith, S. B. Ou the Chinook names of the salmon in the Columbia River. 
Ste.ixegek, L. Description of two new races of Myadestes ohscttriis, Lafr. 
Translation. Metallic castings of delicate natural objects. 
True, F. W. On the North American land tortoises of the genus Xerohates. 

Ou the rare rodent Cricetodipus parvus (Baird) Cones. 
Ward, L. F. Catalogue of a collection of Japanese woods presented to 

the U. S. National Museum by the University of Tokio, Jai)an. 
White, C. A. Ou certain cretaceous fossils from Arkansas and Colorado. 
Anoxymous. The comparative action of dry heat and sulphurous acid 

upon putrefactive bacteria. 

Appendix — Circulars of the U. S. Xational Museum: 

Ko. 1. Plan of organization ami regulations of the Museum. 

No. 2. Circular addressed to the friends of the Museum. 

No. 3. CiiLular in reference to petroleum collections^. 

No. 4. Circular concerninii the department of insects. 

No. 5. Establishment and officer.s of the Smithsonian Institution and Museum. 

No. 6. Classification and arrangement of the materia raedica collection. 

No. 7. A classification of the forms in which drugs and medicines ajipoar ami are adniiuislered. 

No. 8. Memoranda of collectors of drugs for the materia medica section of the National Museum. 

No. S). Circular in reference to the building-stone collection. 

No. 10. Two letters on the work of the National Museum. 

No. 11. A provisional classification of the food collections. 

No. 12. Classification of the collections to illustrate the art of taxidermy. 

No. 13. Outline of a scheme of Museum classification. 

No. 14. Circular requesting material for the library of the Museum. 

No. 15. The organization and objec's of the National Museum. 

No. 16. Plans for the installation of collections. 

No. 17. Contiibutions and their ackuowledgment. 

No. 18. List of publications of the United States National Museum. 

468. Suiitlisoniau Miscellaiieoas Collections. Vol. xxii. 1882. 8vo., 

pp. 1200, cuts IS, plates 4. 

contexts. 

Proceedings of the U. S. National Museum. Vol. in. kSSO. No. 425. 
Proceedings of the U. S. National Museum. Vol. iv. 1881. No. 4(57. 

469. List of Foreign Correspondents of the Smithsonian Institution. 

Corrected to January, 1882. 1882. 8vo., pp. 174. 



572 CATALOGUE OP PUBLICATIONS. 

470. Nomenclator Zoolo^icus. An Alphabetical List ol" all Geueric 

Names that Lave been employed by Naturalists for Eecent and 
Fossil Animals from +be earliest times to the close of the year 
1870. In two parts. List of Generic Names employed in Zoology 
and Paleontology to the close of the year 1879, chiefly supple- 
mental to those catalogued by Agassiz and Marschall, or in- 
dexed in the Zoological Record. By Samuel H. Scuddek. 
1882 and 1884. 8vo , pp. 740. Bulletin of the National Museum 
No. 19. 

471. List of Marine Invertebrates from the New England Coast, distrib- 

uted by the U. S. National Museum. Series iir. Educational 
Series. By Richard Rathbun. 1881. 8vo., pp. 4. 

472. Plans for the Installation of Collections in the U. S. National Mu- 

seum. By G. Brown Goode. 1882. 8vo., pp. 2. {Circular 
of IT. S. National Museum, No. 16.) 

473. Contributions to the U. S. National Museum, and their Acknowl- 

edgment. 1882. 8vo., pp. 2. {Circular of U. S. National Mil- 
seum, No. 17.) 

474. List of Publications of the U. S. National Museum. 1882. 8vo., 

pp. i2. {Circular of U. 8. National 3Iuseum, No. 18.) 

475. Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections. Vol. xxiii. 1882. 8vo., 

pp. 1003. {Bulletins of the National Museum, Nos. 11 to 15.) 

CONTEXTS. 

Gill, T. Bibliography of fishes of Pacific coast. Bulletin No. U. No. 463. 

JoRDAX, D. S. ; Brayton, a. W. Fishes of Alleghany region of South Car- 
olina, Georgia, and Tennessee, and synopsis of Catostomidcv. Bulleiin 
No. 12. No. 308. 

Eggeks, H. F. a. Flora of St. Croix and the Virgin Islands. Bulletin No. 
13. No. 313. 

GooDE, G. B. Catalogue of collection illustrating animal resources and 
fisheries of the United States. Bulletin No. 14. No. 326. 

KuMLiEN, L. Natural history of Arctic America. Bulletin No. l.j. No. 342. 

476. First Annual Report of the Bureau of Ethnology to the Secretary 

of the Smithsonian Institution, 187i)-'80. By J. W. Powell, 
Director. 1881. Royal 8vo., pp. 638. 343 cuts, 54 plates, 1 
folded map. 

CONTEXTS. 

Powell, J. W. Report of the Director of the Bureau. 

Powell, J. W. On the evolution of language. 

Powell, J. W. Mythology of the North American Indians. 

Powell, J. W. Wyandot government. 

Powell, J. W. Limitations to the use of some Anthropological data. 

Yarrow, II. C. Study of the mortuary customs of the North American 

Indians. 
HoLDEX'^, E. S. Studies in Central American picture-writing. 
RoYCE, C. C. Cessions of land by Indian tribes to the United States. 



CATALOGUE OF PUULICATIONS. 573 

Maixeky, Gaeiuck. Sign language among North Anioiican Indians, coni- 
parwl witli that among other peoples an<l dcaf-inntes. 

PlLLlN(;, J. C. Catalogue of lingnistie manuscripts in the lil)rary of the 
Bnrean of Ethnology. 

DORSEV, J. O. Illustration of the method of recording Indian languages. 
How the rabbit caught the sun in a trap. (An Omaha myth. ) 

Gatsciiet, A. S. Details of an Indian conjurer's practice. (In the Kla- 
math Lake dialect.) 

GAT.SCHKT, A. S. The relapse. (In the Klamath Lake dialect.) 

ElGGS, S. R. A dog's revenge. (A Dakota Fable.) 

477. History of SniitLsoiiiaii Exchan-ivs, with li.st of Oriicial Publica- 

tions of the TJ. S. (loveriinunit, between 1S6S and 1881. By 
(lEOKGE 11. BoEiniEK. " 1882. 8\ o., pi). 170. 

478. Catak)gueof Publication.sof the Smithsonian Institution up to July 

1, 1882, with Index to all Articles in- the '• Smithsonian Contri- 
butions to Knowledge,'' " INIiscellaneous Collections," "Annual 
Reports," "Bulletins and Proceedings of the U. S. National IMu- 
seuui," etc. By William J. Biiees. 18S2. 8vo., pp. 342, 

479. Eeport of Spencer F. Baird, Secretary of the Smithsonian Insti- 

tution, for the year 1881. 1883. 8vo., pj). 53. 

480. Classified List of Publications of tlie Smithsonian Institution. 

1883. 8vo„ pp. 24. (M. C. xxvii.) 

481. Miscellaneous Papers relating to Anthropology. Prepared under 

the direction of Otis T. Mason. (From the Smithsonian lie- 
port for 1881.) 1883. 8vo., pp. 1(>2, 76 cuts. 

482. Tuckahoe, or Indian Bread. By J. Howaed Gore. (From the 

Smithsonian Report for 1881.) 1883. 8vo., i)p. 13, 5 cuts. 

483. An Account of Progress in Astronomy in the year 1881. By' 

Edward S. IIolden. (From the Smithsonian Report for 1881.) 
1883. Svo., pp. 40. 

484. An Account of Progress in Meteorology and Allied Subjects in the 

years 187rf-'81. By Cleveland Abbe. (From the Smithsonian 
Report for 1881.) 1883. 8vo., pp. 121. 

485. An Account of Progress in Physics and Chemistry in the year 

1881. By George F. Barker. (From the Smithsonian Re- 
port for 1881.) 1883. 8vo., i)p. 58. 

486. An Account of Progress in Botany in the year 1881. By ^YILLTAM 

Farlow. (From the Smithsonian Report for 1881.) 1883. 8vo., 
pp. 18. 

487. An Account of Progress in Zoology in the year 1881. By Theo- 

dore Gill. (From the Smithsonian Report for 1881.) 1883. 
8vo., pp. 90. 

488. An Account of Progress in Anthropology in 'the year 1881. By - 

Otis T. Mason. (From the Smithsonian Report for 1881.) 1883. 
8vo., pp. 27. 



574 CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 

489. On the Contents of a Bone Cave in the Island of Anguilla (West 

Indies). By Edward D. Cope. 1883. 4to., pp. 34, 5 plates. 

(S. C, XXTV.) 

490. Additions and Corrections to the List of Foreign Correspondents, 

to Jannary, 1883. By Geoege H. Boehmer. 8vo., pp. oG. 
(M. C, XXVI.) 

491. Report of the National Museum Building Commission, and of the 

Architects, January, 1882. (From the Smithsonian Eeport for 
1881.) 1883. 8vo., pp. 10. 

492. Synopsis of the Fishes of North America. By David S. Jordan 

and Charles H. Gilbert. 1882. 8vo., pp. 1018. {Bulletin of 
the National Museum, No. 16.) (M. C, xxiy.) 

493. Check-List of North American Eeptilia and Batrachia, with Cata- 

logue of Specimens in U. S. National Museum. By IT. C. Yar- 
row, M. D., Honorary Curator, Department of Reptiles. 1883. 
8vo., pp. 255. {BuUelin of the National Museum, No. 24.) 

494. List of Marine Invertebrata from the New England Coast. Dis- 

tributed by the U. S. Commission of Fish and Fisheries. Se- 
ries I. By A. E. Verrill and Richard Rathbun. 1879. 
8vo., pp. 6. {Proceedings of the National Museum, 1879.) 

495. Contributions to the Natural History of the Bermudas. Edited by 

J. Matthew Jones and George Brown Goode. 
Vol. L Part I. Geology. By William North Rice. 

Part II. Botany. By John Henry Lefroy. 

Part III. Mammals. By J. Matthew Jones. 

Part IV. Birds. By Savile G. Reid. 

Part V. Notes on Birds. By C. Hart Merriam. 

Part VI. Reptiles. By Samuel Garman. 

Part VII. Annelids. By H. E. Webster. 
1884. 8vo., pp. 377, 12 plates. {Bulletin of the National 
Museum, No. 25.) 

496. Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections. Vol. xxiv. 1883. 8vo., 

pp. 1082. 

CONTENTS. 

Jordan, David S., and Charles IT. Gilbert. Synopsis of the Fishes of 
North America. 8vo., pp. 1074. 18S2. {Bulletin of the National Museum, No. 
16.) No. 492. 

497. Bulletin of the Philosophical Society of Washington. Vols, i, ii, 

m. 1881. 8vo., pp. 839. (M. C.,xx.) 

498. Bulletin of the Philosophical Society of Washington. Vol. iv. 

Containing the Minutes of the Society from the One hundred and 
eighty-fifth Meeting, October 9, 1880, to the Two hundred and 
second Meeting, June 11, 1881. Published by the co operation 
of the Smithsonian Institution. 1881. Svo., pp. 189, 1 folded 
map awd 16 cuts, (M. C, xxv.) 



\ 



CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 575 

499. Proceedings of the Biological Societj' of Washington. With the 

Addresses read on the occasion of the Darwin Memorial Meeting, 
May 12, 1.S82. Published with the cooperation of tlie Smithson- 
ian Institution. Vol. i. November 19, 1880, to May 2G, 1882, 
1882. 8vo., pp. 110. (M. C, xxv.) 

500. Avifauna Columbiana: Being a List of Birds ascertained to in- 

habit the District of Columbia, with the times of Arrival and 
Departure of such as are Nonresidents, and brief notices of 
habits, etc. The Second Edition, Eevised to date and entirely 
re- writ ten. By Elliott Cotjes and D. Webster Prentiss. 
8vo., pp. 133, 2 plates, 100 wood-cuts in text, and 4 maps. {Bulle- 
tin of the National Museum, No. 2G.) 

501. Transactions of the Anthropological Society of Washington, for 

the First, Second, and Third Years of its Organization. Published 
with the co-operation of the Smithsonian Institution. Vol. i, 
February 10, 1879, to January 17, 1882. 1882. Svo., pp. 142. 
(M. C, xxv.) 

502. Abstract of Transactions of the Anthropological Society of Wash- 

ington, 1). C, with the Annual Address of the President, for the 
First Year, ending January 20, 1880, and for the Second Year, end- 
ing January 18, 1881. Prepared by J. W. Powell. 1883. 8vo., 
pp. 150. (M. C, xxv.) 

603. Bulletin of the Philosophical Society of Washington. Vol. v. 
Containing the Minutes of the Society from the Two hundred and 
third Meeting, October 8, 1881, to the Two hundred and twenty- 
sixth Meeting, December IG, 1882. Published by the co-opera- 
tion of the Smitlisonian Institution. 1883. 8vo.,pp. 180, 1 cut, 
2 folded maps. {M. C, xxv.) 

504. Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections. Vol. xxv. 1883. pp. 
785, 3 folded maps, 17 cuts. 

CONTENTS. 

Bulletin of the Philosophical Society of Washington. Vol. iv. October 
9, 1880, to June 11, 1881. 1883. pp. 180, Svo., 1 map, IG cuts. No. 408. 

Bulletin of the Philosophical Society of Washington. Vol. v. October 8, 
1881, to December 10, 1882, 1883. 8vo., pp. 189,2 (blclod maps and 1 
cut. No. 503. 

Transactions of the Anthropological Society o^ Washington. Vol. i. Feb- 
ruary 10, 1879, to January 17, 1882. 1882. 8vo.,pp. 142. No. 501. 

Abstract of Transactions of the Anthropological Society of Washington, 
D'. C. From March 4, 1879, to January 18, 1881. 1883. 8vo., pp. 150. 
No. 502. 

Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington. (With the addresses 
read on the occasion of the Darwin Memorial Meeting, May 12, 1882.) . 
Vol. I. November 19, 1880, to May 2(i, 1882. 1883. Svo,, pp. 110, No. 
499. 



576 CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 

505. Suiitbsoiiiaa Miscellaiieons Collections. Vol. xxvi. 1883. Svo., 

pp. 80G, (»7 cuts. 

CONTENTS. 

Waking, Dr. (Jeokge E., Jr. Toner Lecture viii. Suggestious for the 

Sanitary Drainage of Washington City. 1880. Svo. , pp. 26. No. 349. 
List of Foreign Correspondents of the Smithsonian Institution, Corrected to 

January, 1882. 1882. 8vo., pp. 174. No. 461). 
Additions and Corrections to the List of ForeigivCorrespondeuts to January, 

1883. 1883. 8vo.,pp. 56. No. 490. 
Le Conte, John L., and George H. Horn. Classification of the Coleop- 

tera of Nortli America. 1833. 8vo., i)p. 606, 67 cents. No. 507. 

506. Smithsonian Miscellaneous CoUectious. Vol. xxvii. 1883. 8vo., 

pp. 814. 

CONTENTS. 

Becker, George F. Constants of Nature. Part iv. August, 1880. 8vo., 
pp. 152. No. 358. 

Clarke, Frank Wigglesworth. Constants of Nature. Part v. 1882. 
8vo., pp.293. No. 441. 

Check-list of Publications of the Smithsonian Institution, December, 1881. 
1881. 8vo., pp. 22. No. 437. 

Rhees, William J. Catalogue of Publications of the Smithsonian Insti- 
tution, National Museum and Bureaii of Ethnology. 1882. 8vo., pp. 
342. 

607. Classification of the Coleoptera of North America. Prepared for 
the Smithsonian Institntion by John L. Le Conte and C. H. 
Horn. 1883. 8vo., pp. COG, G7 cnts. (M. C, xxvi.) 

508. Bibliographies of American Naturalists, i. The published writ- 

ings of Spencer F. Baird, 1843-1882. By George Brown 
GooDE, Assistant Director of the National Museum. 1883. 8vo., 
pp. 395. {Bulletin of the National Museum, No. 20.) 

509. Prehistoric Fishing in Europe and North America. By Charles 

Rau. 1884. 4to., pp. 3G0, 1 plate and 405 figures. (S. C, xxv.) 

510. Eeport of the Assistant Director of the U. S. National Museum, G. 

Brown Goode, for the year 1881. (From the Smithsonian Re- 
port for 1881.) 1883. 8vo., pp. 82. 

511. Descriptive Catalogues of the Collections sent from the United 

States to the International Fisheries Exhibition, London, 1883, 
constituting a Eeport u[)on the American Section. Prepared 
under the direction of G. Brown Goode, U. S. Commissioner, 
and a staff of associates. 1884. 8 vo., pp. 1333. {Bulletin of the 
National Museum, No. 27.) 

512. List of Institutions in the United States receiving I^ublications of 

the Smithsonian Institution. 188G. 8vo., pp. 82. 

513. Bulletin of the U. S. National Museum. Published under the di- 

rection of the Smithsonian Institutiou. Department of the In- 
terior. (Contains Bulletins 1 to 10, National Museum.) 8\^o., 
pp. 998, 15 plates, with 74 figures. 



i) ( < 



CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 

514 V C-vtalo-ae of Scientific and Teclmical Periodicals (1065 to 1882), 

'''• to' ttx with Chronological Tables and a Library Chec.L^t. 

By HENKY CAHRINGTON BOLTON. 1885. 8vo, pp. -bS. (M.O., 

XXIX.) . T ,• 

.1 »> Vnnual Report of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Insti- 
'''■ iSi t'^e year 1881. Forty-seveath Congress hrs^ session ; 
Senate Mis. Doc. 1^0. 109. 1883. 8vo., pp. 8aa, b. cuts. 

CONTENTS. 

Journal of Proceedings of tlio Board of Regents. 
Baird, S. F., Secretary. Report of operationa. 

The Smithsonian Institution. 

National Museum. 

Bureau of Ethnology. 

Co-operation with other e.Htahlishinents. 

Miscellaneous. 

ITuited States Fish Commission. 

Appendix to the Report of the Secretary. 
Report of the Executive Committee for 1531. 

National Museum. 
Record of Recent Scientific Progr<-.ss. 
Baird, S. F. Introduction. 
HoLDEN, E. S. Astronomy. 
Abbe, Cleveland. Meteorology. 
Barker, G.F. Physics. 

Barker, G. F. Chemistry. 

Farlow.W.G. Botany. 

Gill, Theodore. Zoology. 

Mason, O.T. Anthropology. 

Washington Territory. 
Servies, E. F. Mounds near EdwardsviHo, Kans. 
r, K,^^•,r^^■,\^\^i<i of jMilcs Couutv, lowa. 

HjoTGKOuaK,L.,»n<lSC„..TZ„F„.o.a M,.u„.,.siu E.U,Co.aty, 

County, Wis. WMtpsides and La Salle 

MOODY, J. D. Explorations m mounds in W h.ttsules 

oJX'S^cL. Anti.uitiesofFoxRiveryalley,LaSalleCounty, 

ScnSI^ENBKROKR, T. M. Mounds ^^ Jl-y a^^tar. Counties, UK 
MCCLELLAND, M. A. Anti<iuities of Knox Co nt„ Ul. 
TIFFANY, A. S. Mounds in Bureau County, HI. 
H. INlis. 170 37 



578 CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS 

Miscellaneous Papers relative to Anthropology— Continued. 

Snyder, Dr. J. F. Buried flints in Cass County, 111. 

French, G. H. Antiquities of Jackson County, 111. 

French, G. H. Stone fort near Makanda, Jackson County, 111. 

Farrell, F. M. Ancient remains near Cobden, 111. 

Sibley, H. F. Antiquities of Wayne County, 111. 

Stinson, Dr. Floyd. Mounds and earthworks in Vanderburgh, 
County, Ind. 
. Luther, S. N. Mounds near Braceville, Trumbull County, Ohio. 

Case, H. B. Mounds and earthworks in Ashland County, Ohio. 

MacLean, J. P. Earthworks near Jones' Station, Butler County, 
Ohio. 

Linney, W. M. Mounds in Boyle and Mercer Counties, Ky. 

Evans, R. B. Mounds in Barren and Allen Counties, Ky. 

Haite, Joshua, sr. Mounds on Flynu's Creek, Jackson County. Tenn. 

KOESSLER, A. E. Antiquities and Aborigines of Texas. 

Gesner, William. Mounds, workshops, and stone-heaps in Jeflfersou 
County, Ala. 

MOHR, Charles. Aboriginal soapstone quarry and shell-heaps in 
Alabama. 

Jones, Dr. Charles C. jr. Silver crosses from an Indian stone mound 
at Coosawattee, Old Town, Murray County, Ga. 

Whittlesey, Charles. The great mound on the Etowat River, 
Georgia. 

Taylor, William J. New River mounds, Berrien County, Ga. 

Kentworth, Charles J. Ancient canals in Florida. 

Bell, James. Ancient mounds in Alachua County, Flar 

Hubbard, H. B. Shell deposits on Short Creek, West Virginia. 

Hay'DEN, Rev. Horace. Antiquities of southwestern Pennsylvania. 

Galbreith, F. G. Rock-carvings on Susquehanna River, Pennsyl- 
vania. 

Sheward, James. Chautauqua County, N. Y. 

Beaucamp, W. M. Antiquities of Onondaga and adjoining counties in 
New York. 

TOOKER, William Wallace. Perforated tablet of stone from New 
York. 

Ellsworth, E. W. Antiquities of East Windsor, Conn. 

Wing, Daniel. Shell-heaps in Barnstable County, Mass. 

Jack, J. Allen. Sculptured stone found in St. George, New Bruns- 
wick. 

Matthew, G. F. A supposed specimen of aboriginal art. 

Patterson, Rev. George. Antiquities of Nova Scotia. 

Walker, S. T. Aborigines of Florida. 

Gore, J. Howard. Tuckahoe, or Indian bread. 

BoEHMER, George H. History of the Smithsonian Exchanges. 

516. List of Duplicate Marine Invertebrates distributed by the U. S. 

National Museum. Series IV. Educational series. Prepared 
by R. S. Tarr, under the direction of Richard Rathbun. 
1883. 4to., pp. 5. 

517. Check-List of North American Reptilia and Batrachia, based on 

specimens contained in the U. S. National Museum. By H. C. 
Yarrow, M. D., Honorary Curator, De|)artment of lieptiles. 
1883. pp. 28. {Bulletin of the National Museum, No. 24.) 



CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 579 

518. Proceedings af the U. S. National Museum for 1SS2. Vol. v. 
1883. Svo., pp. 715, 12 plates with 100 fii^ures, 52 cuts. 

CONTENTS. 

Bean, Taulkton H. Notes on Fishes collected by Capt. Charles Bendire, 
U. S. A., in Washington Territory and Oregon, May to October, 
1881. 
Note on the occurrence of a Silver Lauiproy (Ickthyoviyzon caxlaneus 

Girard) in Louisiana. 
Notes on Birds collected during the summer of 1880 in Alaska and Sibe- 
ria. 
Description of a species of WhiteflsL, Corregonus hoyi (Gill) Jordan ; 

called " Smelt " in some parts of New York. 
Description of a New Species of Alepidosaurus {X. (Bsculapius) from 
Alaska. 

(See also under Goode and Bean.) 
Belding, L. Catalogue of a Collection of Birds made at various points 
along the Western Coast of Lower California north of Cape 
St. Eugenio. 
Catalogue of Collection of Birds made near the southern extremity of 
the peninsula of Lower California. 
Bendire, Capt. Charles, U. S. A. On the Eastward Distribution of the 

Black-tailed Deer {Cariacus columbianus). 
Carbonnier, M. (translated by Tarleton H. Bean). Note on the Habits 

and the Rearing of the Axolotl (Amblysioma mexicanum). 
Dall, W. H. Note on Cluster Flies. 

DuGifes, Prof. Alfred (translated by Frederick W. True). Observa- 
tions on four Mules in Milk. 
Gill, Theodore. On the family Centropomidae, with one plate. (Plate 

XL) 

Nomenclature of the Xiphiids. 
On the Family and Subfamilies of Carangidte. 
Note on the Leptocardians. 
Note on the Myzonts or Slarsipobrauchiates. 
Note on the Bdellostomidte and Myxinidae. 
Note on the Petromyzoutids. 
. Sujiplementary Note on the Podiculati. 
Note on the Pomatomidje. 
Note on the Affinities of the Epbippiids. 
On the Relations of the Family Lobotida^. 
Note on the Relationships of the Echeneidids. 
Note on the Genus Sparus. 
On the proper name of the Bluefish. 
Goode, G. Brown, and Bean, Tarleton H. A list of the Species of 

Fishes jrecorded as occurring in the Gulf of Mexico. 
Descriptions of twenty-five New Species of Fish from the Southern 

United States, and three new Genera, Letharchus, loglossns, and 

Chriodorus. 
Hawes, George W., Ph. 1). On a Phosphatic Sandstone from Hawthorne, 

in Florida. 
Hegewald, Lieut. J. T. C, U. S. Army. (See under Swaiue and Hege- 

wald.) 
Inman, S. M. Cataiogne of a CoUeclion of simi)les of Raw Cotton, pre- 
sented to the U. S. National Musenm l>y the International Cotton 

Exposition, Atlanta, Ga. 1881. 



580 CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 

Jordan, David S. Eescriptioa of a New Species of Blenuy {Isesthea gil- 

berti) from Santa Barbara, Cal. 
Jordan, David S., and Gilbert, Chari.es H. Doscription of Four New 

species of Sharks from Mazatlan, Mexico. 
Description of a New Shark {Carcliarias lamiella) from San Diego, Cal. 
Description of a New Cyprinodant (Zygonectes inururs) from soufhoru 

Illinois. 
Description of a New Species of Uranidea ( Urunidea iwlUcaris) from 

Lake Michigan. 
Notes on Fishes observed about Pensacola, Florida, and Galveston, 

Texas, with Description of New Species. 
Description of a New Species of Conodon {Conodon serrifer) froni.Boca- 

Soledad, Lower California. 
Catalogue of the Fishes collected by Mr. John Xautus at Cape Sau 

Lucas, which are now in theU. S. National Museum, with Descrip 

tions of eight New Species. 
List of Fishes collected by John Xantus at Coliina, Mexico. 
List of Fishes collected by Capt. John M. Dow, now in the U. S. Na- 
tional Museum. 
List of a Collection of Fishes made by Mr. L. Beldiug near Cape San 

Lucas. Lower California. 
List of Fishes collected at Panama by Eev. Mr. Howell, now preserved 

in the U. S. National Museum. 
Descriptions of two New Species of Fishes {Sebastichthi/s umbrosus and 

Citharichthys sUgma'us) collected at Santa Barbara, Cal., by Andrea 

Larco. 
Description of a New Sjiecies of Gohy {Gobiosoma ios) from Vancouver's 

Island. 
On certain Neglected Generic Names of La C6pfede. 
On the Syuonomy of the Genus Bofhts Rafinesque. 
Description of a New Species of Artedius (Artedius fencNtralts) from Puget 

Sound. 
Description of a New Species of Urolophuf ( Urolophus asterias) from Ma. 

zatlan and Panama. 
Notes on a Collection of Fishes from Charleston, S. C, with Descrip- 
tions of three New Species. 
List of Fishes now in the Museum of Yale College, collected by Prof. 

Frank II. Bradley at Panama, with Descriptions of three New 

Species. 
Description of two New Species of Fishes {Myropliis vafer and Chloro- 

scombrus orqueta) from Panama. 
Description of a New Eel {Sidc7-a castancu) from Mazatlan, Mexico. 
On the Nomenclature of the Geuus Opkichthys. 
Kalb, George B. (See under Swain and Kalb.) 
Lesquereux, L. Contribution to the Miocene Flora of Alaska. 
Merrili-, George P. Note on a Potsdam Sandstone or Conglomerate fi-om 

Berks County, Pa. 
Newberry, J. S. Brief Descriptions of Fossil Plants, chietly Tertiary, 

from Western North America. 
NuTTiXG, C. C. On a Collection of Birds from the Hacienda "La Palma," 

Gulf of Nicoya, Costa Rica, with Critical Notes by Robert Ridg- 

way. 
RiDGWAY, RoiiKur. Description of several New R.aces of American Birds. 
On the Geneia Harporhynchus, Cabanis, and Mcthriopterus, Reichenbach, 

with II l^cscription of a New Genus of MimiucF,. 



CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. -'"-^ 

K'lixww KoiiKKT — Continued. -, , 

Not^'o^ tlu. Native Trees of the Lower Wabash and Wlntc R.ver^ al- 
leva, in Illinois and Indiana. , 

Critical Romanes on the Tree Creepers (Cerma) of Enro.o and Noxth 



America. 



Descriptions of some Now North American Birds. ^, 

(Ed.tor^. On a collection of birds from the Hacienda j^^^^ 
Gulf of Nicoya, Costa Rica, with Critical Notes by Robe, t Rld^^^ a> . 

Cat^; of action of Birds made in the Interior of Costa Rica 

Des::^,"::,:;;/: N:r^;rbler tVom the Island of Santa Lneia, West 

Indies. 
Des-nintiou of a supposed New Plover from Chili. 
^Edlt r Catalooie of a Collection of Birds made ^^^ -r.ous points 

alon. the Western Coast of Lower California, north of Cape St. 

(EdSrCat^o^;!r a Election of Birds made "- ---;- 
extremity of the Peninsula of Lower Calitornia. B> L. BelUin^. 

On the Genus Tantalus, Linn., and its Allies. 

Description of a New Petrel from Alaska. 
RI.KV, Cim..KS V. Jumping Seeds and Galls. With one cut. 
l?vnwR T A Genera of the 5co?(vp(>)K/r(-nif?cc. 

simiEot. Description of a Now Species of UranuleaiUra.u^e. rUotLea) 
' from Spokane River, Washington Territory. 

On the Life Coloration of the Young of Fomacentrus ruhcnn4us 
«^IXH ROSA, and Swmk, JosKrii. Notes on a Collection of Ushes fiom 
^" ' Thn'sou's Island,'incUuling Descriptions of five New S,.c es. 
STE^NEOKK, LEOXHAKO. Synopsis of the West Indian Mya^e.Us. NX .th 

on r^S:e^^::::a^Specific Appellations of Nor.h American and En- 

ropean Birds. 
Outliuesof a Monograph of the C»/j/ni«a>. With IG cuts. 
Remadrou the Systematic Arrangement of the American Turd.a.. 

STOKK, 111:^0^' Does the Panther iFelis concoJo,, go into the Water 

STKKKT8* t'^^s H., M. D., U. S. NAVY. A study of the PkronuM. of the 
SmKETS THO , ^^^^^ Expedition. With «-.f f J^''^^« J: , ^ 
SWAIN, JOSEPH. A Review of the Synonatlur,. of the United States, with a 
Description of one New Species. 
csipp nlso under Smith and Swain.) 
SWMN iot°;H, AKD K.I.B, Geo.gk B. A Review of t.,c «e..us M ., 

SwAiNE. Lieut. Coe. r. i-, u. o. aujil,^ 1 'r...^«a in the 

C, U. S. Army. Information concerning some toss.l fiees m the 

U. S. National Museum. ,.,, 

TKUE, FuV-OEPacK W. (translator). Observations on Four Mules m M.Ik. 

By Prof. Alfred Dugfes. 
On a Cinnamon Bear from Pennsylvania. 
TUKNEU. LUCIEN M. On i«,o,..s -;'-« Leach -\Hdne invertebrata of 
Vfrpii I A. E. Notice of Recent Additions to the Marine luv ei 
"^^ IhtNortheasternCoastofAmerica, withDescript.onsof Ne. G.^^^ 

and Species, and Critical Remarks on others. Part IV . Ad t ons 
tothe Deep-water Mollusca taken olV Martha's Vineyard ... 1.80 

and 1881. 



582 CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 

White, C. A. New Molluscau Forms from the Laramie and Green River 
Groups, with Discussion of some Associated Forms heretofore un- 
known. With two plates (Plates iii and iv). 
The Molluscan Fauna of the Truckee Group, including a New Form. 
With one plate (Plate v). 

Yarkow, H. C, M. D. Descriptions of New Species of Reptiles and Am- 
phibians in the U. S, National Museum. 

619. Bulletins of the National Museum. Volume ii, Bulletins Nos. 
11-15. Department of the Interior. 1883. 8vo., pp. 997. (M. 
C. xxiii.) 

520. Report of Spencer F. Baird, Secretary of the Smithsonian In- 

stitution, for the year 1882. 1883. 8vo., pp. 58. 

521. Bulletins of the National Museum. Volume ill, Bulletin No. 16. 

Department of the Interior. 1883. 8vo., pp. 1333. 
622. Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections. Volume xxviii. 8vo., 
pp. 777. 

CONTENTS. 

Tables, Meteorological and Physical. By Arxoll) Guyot. Fourth edition, 
revised and enlarged. Edited by W^illiam Libbey, jr. 1884. 8vo., 
pp. 773. No. 538. 

523. (In preparation.) 

524. Eeport of the Assistant Director of the U. S. National Museum, 

G. Brown Goode, for the year 1882. (From the Smithsonian 
Eeport, 1882.) 1883. 8vo., pp. 148. 

525. An account of the Progress in Astronomy in the year 1882. By 

Edward S. Holden. (From the Smithsonian Keport lor 1882.) 
1883. 8vo., pp. 50. 

526. An account of the Progress in Geology in the years 1881, 1882. 

By T. .Sterry Hunt. (From the Smithsonian Eeport for 
1882.) 1883. 8vo., pp. 24. 

527. An account of the Progress in Geography in the year 1882. By 

F. M. Green, U. S. Navy. (From the Smithsonian Eeport for 
1882.) 1883. 8vo., pp. 20. 

528. An account of the Progress in Meteorology in the year 3882. By 

Cleveland Abbe. (From the Smithsonian Eeport for 1882.) 
1883. 8vo., pp. 99. 

529. An account of the Progress in Physics in the year 1882. By 

George F. Barker, University of Pennsylvania. (From the 
Smithsonian Report, 1882.) 1883. Svo., pp. 52. 

530. An account of the Progress in Chemistry in the year 1882. By 

H. Carriinigton Bolton. (From the Smithsonian Eeport for 
1882.) 1883. 8vo., pp. 23. 

531. An account of the Progress in Mineralogy in the year 1S82. By 

Edward S. Dana. (From the Smithsonian Report for 1882.) 
1883. 8vo., pp. 18. 



CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 583 

532. All account of the Progress in Botany in tlie year 1882. By 

William G. Faulow. (From tlie Smitlisonian Keport for 
1883.) 188a. 8vo., pp. 15. 

533. An account of the Progress in Zoology in the year 1882. By Theo- 

dore Gill. (From the Smithsonian Report for 1882.) 1883. 
8vo., p[). 08. 
634. An account of the Progress in Anthropology in the year 1882. 
By Otis T. Mason. (From the Smithsonian Peport for 1882.) 
1883. 8vo., ]>p. 41. 

535. ]\IiscelUineous Papers rehiting to Antlir(ti)o!ogy. (From the 

Smithsonian Peport for 1882.) 1883. 8vo., i)p. 151, 4G cuts. 

536. List of Astronomical Observatories. By George II. Boeumer. 

(From the Smithsonian Eeport for 1886.) LSSd. Svo., pp. 14. 

537. Archaeological Map of the District of Columbia. By L. P. Ken- 

GLA. 1883. Folio, pp. 1. 

538. Tables, Meteorological and Physical. By Arnold Guyot. 

Fourth edition, revised and enlarged. Edited by 'A'illiam 
LiBBEY, JR. 1884. 8vo., pp. 773. (M. C, xxyiii.) 

539. Classification of the Materia Medica Collection of the IT. S. l!^a- 

tional Museum, and Catalogue of Specimens. By James ]M. 
Flint, Surgeon U. S. Navy, Curator of the Department of 
Materia Medica. 1883. 8vo., pp. 4G. {Proceedings JJ. S. Na- 
tional 3Iuseum, 1883 ; Circular National Muncum, No. 19.) 
640. Annual Report of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian In- 
stitution for the year 1882. Forty-seventh Congress, second 
session. House of Representatives, Mis. Doc. No. 2G. 1884. 
8vo., pp. 875, 47 cuts. 

CONTENTS. 

Journal of Proceedings of the Board of Ecgeuts. 
Eeport of the Executive Committee for the year 1882. 
Baird, S. F. Secretary's report of operations. 

.The SmithsoniaH Institution. 

National Museum. 

Bureau of Ethuology. 

U. S. Geological Survey. 

U. S. Fish Commission. 

Appendix to the Report of tho Secretary. 
Acts and resolutions of Congress relative to the Smithsonian Institution 

and National Museum. 
Record of recent scientific progress: 

Baird, S. F. Introduction. 

HoLDEN, E. S. Astronomy. 

Hunt, T. Sterky. Geology. 

Green, F. M. Geography. 

Abbe, Cleveland. Meteorology, etc. 

Barker, G. F. Physics. 

Bolton, II. Carrington. Chemistry. 

Dana, Edward S. Mineralogy. 



58i CATALOGUE OP PUBLICATIONS. 

Koconl of recent scientific progress — Continued. 

Farlow, W. G. Botany. 

Gill, Theodore. Zoology. 

Masox, O. T. Antliropology. 
Papers relating to authrojiologj^. 

Fernandicz, Don Leon. The Guatuso Indians of Costa Rica. 

Bron, Dr. li. T. Ancient remains in White Eiver Canon, Arizon.a. 

Van Allen, George C. Mounds in Henry County, Iowa. 

Williamson, James M. Mounds in Carroll County, 111. 

McAdams, William, Jr. Mounds of the Mississippi Bottom, Illinois. 

Henderson, John G. Aboriginal remains near Naples, 111. 

Homsher, Dr. G. W. The Glidwell mound, Franklin County, Ind. 

Homsher, Dr. G. W. Remains on White Water River, Indiana. 

MacLean, J. P. Signal mounds of Butler County, Ohio. 

MacLean, J. P. Remains on Blennerhassett's Island, Ohio River. 

Null, James M. Aboriginal structures in Carroll County, Teun. 

Kent, Bknjamin W. Mounds in Putnam County, Ga. 

Le Baron, J. Francis. Prehistoric remains in Florida. 

Le Baron, J. Francis. Gold, silver, and other ornaments found in 
Florida. 

Simons, Dr. M. H. Shell-heaps of Charlotte Harbor, Florida. 

Smith, J. P. Antiquities in Washington County, Md. 

Chase, H. E. Shell heaps near Provincetown, Mass. 

Bransford, Dr. J. F. Report on Explorations in Central America 
in 18S1. 

Mason, O. T. (Editor). Abstracts from Anthropological Correspond- 
ence. 

541. Kequest for specimens of drugs and information concerning tbem. 

By S. F. Baird. 1883. 8vo., p. 2. {Proceedings U. S. Na- 
tional Museum, 1883, Circular National Museum. No. 20.) 

542. Second Annual Report of the Bureau of Ethnology to the Sec- 

retary of the Smithsonian Institution, 1880-'8I. By J. W. 
Powell, Director. 1883. Royal 8vo., pp. 515. 77 plates, Til 
cuts, 2 maps. 

contents. 

Powell, J. W. Report of the Director of the Bureau. 

CusiiiNG, F. H. Zuiii Fetiches. 

Smith, Ekminnie A. Myths of the Iroquois. 

IIenshaw, H. W. Animal carvings from the mounds of the Mississippi 

Valley. 
Matthews, W. Navajo silversmiths. 
Holmes, W. II. Art in shell of the ancient Americans. 
Stevenson, J. Illustrated catalogue of the collections obtained from the 

Indians of New Mexico and Arizona in 1879. 
Stevenson, J, Illustrated catalogue of the collections obtained from the 

Indians of New Mexico in 1880. 

643. Bulletin of the Philosophical Society of Washington, Yol. vl 
containing the minutes of the society for the year 1883, and the 
minutes of the mathematical section from its organization, 
March 29, to the close of the year. Published by the co-oper- 
ation of the Smithsonian Institution. 1884. 8vo., pp. 220, 4 

cuts. (M. C, XXXIII.) 



CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 580 

644. Transactions of the Anthropological Society of Washington. Pnb- 
lished with the co-operation of the Sniithsonian Institution. 
Vol. II. February 7, 1882, to March 1.^, 1883. 1883. 8vo., pp. 
2l.'5, 41 cuts. 

545. Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington. Puhlished 

with the CO operation of tlie Smithsonian institution. Vol. 
n. July 1, 1882, to July 1,1881. 1885. 8vo., pp. 19.1,3 lig- 
nres. 

546. Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections. Volume xxix. 1885, 

8vo., pp. 787. 

CONTENTS. 

A catalogup, of scientific and technical periodicals (16G5 to 1882) together 
■with chronological tables and a library clieck list. By Hi:nuy Car- 
RINGTOX Bor/ruN. 1885. 8vo., pp. 783. No. 514. 

547. Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge. Volume xxiv. 1885. 

4to., pp. 323^, 8 wood-cuts, 5 plates, 5 charts. 

CONTENTS. 

Eesnltsof meteorological observations made at Providence, R. I., extending 
over a jieriod of forty-five years, from December, 1831, to December, 
1876. By Alexis Caswell. 1882. 4to., pp. 40. No. 443. 

Tables and results of the precipitation, in rain and snow, in the United 
States, and at some stations in adjacent parts of North America, and 
in Central and Sonth America. Collected by the Smithsonian Institu- 
tion, and discussed under the direction of Joseph Henry and Spen- 
cer F. Baird, Secretaries. By Charles A. Schott. May, 1881. 
4to., pp. 269, 8 wood-cuts, 5 plates, 5 charts. (Second edition.) No. 353. 

548. Proceedings of the United States National Museum for 1883. Vol. 

VI. 8vo., pp. o(i~), 11 plates and G cuts. 

contents. 

Bean, Tarleton H. The first Occurrence of Pseudotriacis microdon, Ca- 
pello, on the coast of the United States. 

Kotes on a collection of Fishes made in 1882 and 1883 by Capt. Henry 
E. Nichols, U. S. Navy, in Alaska and British Columbia, with a 
Description of a New Genus and Species, Prionistius macellus. 
(Prionutius macellus, n. g. and n. s., SeMstichthys irevispinis, n. 
subs.). 

Notes on some Fishes collected by James G. Swan in \Vashington Terri- 
tory, including a new species of Macrurus. (Macruris acroleins, n. s. ) 

Notes on Fishes observed at the Head of Chesapeake Bay in the spring 
of 1682, and upon other species of the same Region. 
Belding, L. List of Birds found at Guaymas, Souora, in December, 1882, 
and April, 1883. 

Second Catalogue of a Collection of Birds made near the southern ex- 
tremity of Lower California. (Edited by R. Ridgway.) 
Bush, Katherine J. Catalogue of Mollusca and Echinodermata dredged 
on the coast of Labrador by the Expedition under the direction of 
Mr. W. A. Stearns, in 1882. (Plate ix.) 



>86 CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 

Dall, W. H. Ou a collection of Shells sent from Florida by Mr. Henry 
Hemphill. (Plate x.) {Leuconia hempMnU, n. s., Phos intrkatus, 
n. 8., Muricidea, u. s.?, Mitra {Mitrophora?) floridana, n. s., Diillia 
tliea, n. s., Drillia leucocyma, n. s., Drillia limonitella, n. s., EuUma 
(Leiostraca?) hemphillii, n. s., Pyramidellaf vincta, n. »., Odostomia 
aciUldens, n. s., Parthenia cedrosa, n. s., Turhonilla viridaria, u. s., 
Turbonilla (viridaria var?) firz/a, n. s. ? Turhonilla {viridaria var. ?) 
punicea, n. s.? Cytherea {Transennella ?') conradina, n. s. ) 

Fisher, William J. Catalogue of a collection of Ethnological Specimens 
obtained from the Ugashagmut Tribe, Ugashak River, Bristol Bay, 
Alaska. 

Flint, Dr. James M. Classilication of the Materia Medica collection of 
the U. S. National Museum, and Catalogue of Siiecimens. (Circu- 
lar Xo. 19 of Appendix.) 
Request for Drugs and Information concerning them. (Circular No. 
"20 of Appendix.) 

Gilbert, Charles H. (See Jordan & Gilbert.) 

Gill, Theodore. Diagnosis of new Genera and Species of deep-sea fish- 
like Vertebrates. (Petromyzon {Bathymyzon) bairdii, n. subg. and 
n. 8., Chimcera abhreviata, n. s., Histiobranchus infernalis, n. g. and 
n. 8., N'ot acanthus analis, n. s., Sigmops stigmaticus, n. g. and n. s., 
HypercliorisUis Tannei-i, n. g. and n. s., AlepocepJialus productus, n. s., 
Halosaurus goodei, n. s., Plcctromus surborbitalis, n. g. and u. e., 
Stephanoberyx monw, n. g. and n. s., Caulolejns longidens, n. g. and 
n. s., Bassozetus normalis, u. g. and n. s., Onos rufus,n. s.) 

Gill, Theodore & Ryder, John A. Diagnoses of new Genera of Nem- 
ichthjoid Eels. (Serriromer beanii, n. g. and n. s., Spiyiiromer 
goodei, n. g. and n. s, Labichtkys carinaius, n. g. and n. s., Labiclithys 
elongatus, n. s.) 
On the Anatomy and Relations of the Eurypharyugidae. {Lyomeri, n. 
ord., Gastrostomus bairdii, n. g. and n. 8.) 

GooDE, G. Brown. The generic names Amitra and Thyris replaced (Mon- 
omitra and Delothyris, new names.) 

Heap, G. H., esq. On an antique Roman Mosaic from Carthage, now in 
the U. S. National Museum. (The " Mosaic Lion.") 

HoRNADAY, William T. Brief Directions for removing and preserving 
the Skins of Mammals. (Also issued separately as Circular No. 22 
of Appendix.) (Four cuts. ) 

Humbert, Fred., M. D., F. C. S. Lucilia macellaria infesting Man. 

Hunt, J. G., M. D. Report on a Fragment of Cloth taken from a Mound 
in Ohio. 

Jordan, David S., and Gilbert, Charles H. Notes on the Nomenclature 
of certain,North American Fishes. 
Description of two new Species of Fishes (Apriou ariommus and 

Ophidium beani) from Pensacola, Fla. 
A review of the American Caranginae. 
Note on the Genera of Petromyzontidaa. 

Description of a new Miirajnoid Eel (Sidera chlevastes) from the Gala- 
pagos Islands. 
Description of anew species of Rhinobatus (Rhinobatus glaucostigma) 
from Mazatlan, Mexico. 

Jordan, David S., and Swain, Joseph. List of Fishes collected in the 
Clear Fork of the Cumberland, Whitley County, Ky. , with De- 
scriptions of three new species (.Bohosoma susaiiw, n. s., PoecilicMhys 
sagiita, u. s., Elheosioma cumherlandicum, n. 8.) 



CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 587 

JouY, PiKKRE Louis. Ornithological Notes on Collectious made in Japan 

from Jnne to December, 18b"J. 
Merrill, George P. On the black Noilnle.s or so-called Inclusions in the 
Maine Granites. 

Preliminary Note on the Cry.stalliuo Schists of the District of Columbia. 

On the Collection of Maine Building Stone.s in the U, S. National 
Museum. 
Nelson, E. W. On the Source of the jadeite Iinpleinents of the Alaskan 

Innnits. 
NiiJLACK, Ensign A. P. Instructions for taking Paper Molds of Inscrip- 
tions in Stono, Wood, Bronze, etc. (Circular No. 23 of Appendix.) 
Nutting, Ciiaulf.s C. On a Collection of Birds from Nicaragua. {Gvo- 
llilyphis hairdi, n. s., Onjzoboriis nuitingiliidgw., n. subs., Contopua 
depressirostris Ridgw., n. s., CijmhUamns lineatus fasciatus, Ridgw., 
n. subs., Porzana IciKogastra Ridgw., n. s. ) 
Rathbun, Richard. List of duplicate Marine Invertebrates distributed 
by the U. S. National Museum. Series iv. Educational Series 
No. 2. 
Rau, Charlks. Circular relative to Contributions of Aboriginal Auticjui- 
ties to the U. S. National Museum. (Circular No. 21 of Appendix.) 
Ridgwa Y, Robert. Descriptions of some Birds supposed to be nndescribed, 
from the Commander Islands and Petropaulovski, collected by Dr. 
Leonhard Stejnegcr, U. S. Signal Service. {HaUmtus hypoleucus 
Stejneger, Acroccphaluft difhowfldi Stejneger, Anorthura pallesfena 
Stejneger, Hirundo satnrnia Stejneger, Anthus Stejnegeri Ridgw., 
provisionally.) 

On the probable Identity of Motacilla ocularis Swiuhoe and M. amu- 
rensis Seebobm, with remarks on an allied supposed species, M. 
blakistoni Seebohm. 

Descriptions of some new Birds from Lower California, collected by Mr. 
L. Beldiug. (Lophophanes inornatus cineraceus, n. subs., Psaltri- 
parus grindw, Belding, n. s. Junco hairdi, Belding, n. s.) 

Anthus cervinus (Pallas) in Lower California. 

Note on Merula confinis (Baird). 

Notes on some Japanese Birds related to North American species. 

(Editor.) List of Birds found at Guaymas, Sonora, in December, 1882, 
and April, 1883, by L. Belding. 

(Editor.) On a collection of Birds from Nicaragua. By Charles C. 
Nutting. 

On some Costa Ricau Birds, wltli Descriptions of several supposed new 
species. {EmpUlonax viridescens, n. s., Pittasoma michleri seledoni, 
n. subs.) 
Smith, Ros.'V. The life colors of Cremnobates integrijfinnis. 

Noteon the Occurrence of Gasterosteus williamsoni, Grd., in an Artesian 
Well at San Bernardino, Cal. 

Notes on the Fishes of Todos Santos Bay, Lower California. 
Smith, Sidney I. Preliminary Report on the Brachyura and Anomura 
dredged in deep water off the south coast of New England by the 
U. S. Fish Commission in 1880, 1881, and 1882. (Plates i-vi. 
(Amathia Tanneri, n. s., Collodes rohmtns, u. s., CymopoUa gracilis, 
n. s., Sijmpagurus pictua, u. g. and n. s., Munida valida, u. s., Eu- 
miinida picta, n. g. and n. s., Anoplonotus politus, n. g. and n. s.) 

List of the Crustacea dredged on the Coast of Labrador by the Expedi- 
tion under the direction of W. A. Stearns, in 1882. (Ehachofropis, 
uom. g. n.) 

Review of the Marine Crustacea of Labrador. 



588 CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS 

Steakns, Kobeut E. C. Description of a uew geuiis and specifs of Alcyo- 
noid Polyp, from Japanese waters, with remarks on '.bo Structure 
and Habits of related forms, etc. (Plate vii.) {Radicipes plturo- 
cristatus, n.g. and n. s.) 

Stearns, W. A. Notes on the Natural History of Labrador. 

Stejneger, Leoxhard. Contributions to the History of the Commander 
Islands. No. 1. Notes on tbo Natural History, including Descrip- 
tions of new Cetaceans. (Berardlus hairdii, n. s., Ziphius grebnitzMi, 
n. 8.) 

SwAix, Joseph. A DescriiJtion of a new species of Hadrojjterus (Hadrop- 
terus scierus) from Southern Indiana. (See also under Jordan and 
Swain.) 

True, Frederick W., M. S. On a pair of abnormal Antlers of the Virginia 
Deer. (With one cut.) 
On the Skeleton of Phoca (Histriophoca) fasciata, Zimmerman. (Plates 
xi-xiv and one cut.) 

Walker, S. T. Fish mortality in the Gulf of Mexico. 

On the Origin of the Fossil Bones discovered in the vicinity of Tise's 
Ford, Florida. 

W^HiTE, Charles A. On the Macrocheilus of Phillips, Plectostylus of 
Conrad, and Soleniscns of Meek & Worthen. (Plate viii.) 

Willis, Merritt. Shell Beds in West Chester, N. Y. 

Yarrow, H. C, M. D. Description of new Species of Eeptiles in the U. S. 
National Museum. (Eutwtiia vagraus plutonia, n. subs., Eutcenia 
henshawi, U.S., Bascaniuvi flagelliforme bicinctum, n.subs., I'ropido- 
notus compressicaudus walkeri, n. sabs.) 

549. A Manual of American Land Shells. By W. G. Binney. 1885. 

8vo,, pp. 528, 516 cuts. {Bulletin of the National Museum, Ko. 

28.) 

550. Scientific Writings of Joseph Henry. 2 volumes. 1886. Eoyal 

8vo., Vol. I, pp. 536, 49 cuts; Vol. ii, pp. 567, 48 cuts. (M. C. 
XXX.) 

551. Preliminary Catalogue and Synopsis of Collections of United 

States at London Fisheries Exhibition, 1883. By G-. B. Goode. 
Part of Bulletin National Museum, No. 27. (See 511.) 1883. 
108 pp. 

552. Catalogue of Crustaceans, Worms, Echinoderms, and Sponges of 

United States at Loudon Fisheries Exhibition, 1883. By R. 
Ratheun. Part of Bulletin Fational Museum, No. 27. (See 
511.) 1883. 31pp. 

553. Catalogue of Aquatic and Fish-eating Birds of United States at 

London Fisheries Exhibition, 1883. By R. Ridgway. Part of 
Bulletin National Museum, No. 27. (See 511.) 1883. 46 pp. 

554. Catalogue of Economic MoUusca of United States at Loudon Fish- 

eries Exhibition, 1883. By F. W^inslow. Part of Bulletin 
National Museum, No. 27. (See 511.) 1883. 86 pp. 
655. The Whale Fishery and its Appliances. By James T. Brown. 
Part of Bulletin National Museum, No. 27. (See 511.) London 
Fisheries Exhibition, 1883. 1883. 116 pp. 



CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 589 

558. Catalogue of Fishes of United States at London Fislieries Exhi- 
bition. By T. H. Bean. Tnrt of Bulletin National Museum, 
No. 27. (See 511.) 1883. 121 pp. 

557. \)Qe,\) Sea Eesearch. By R. Rathbun. J'ai t of Bulk'tin National 

Museum, No. 27. (Seeoll.) London Fisheries Exhibition, 1S83. 

558. Smithsonian Miseellaueous Collections. A^ol. xxx. 18SG. 8vo., 

pp. 1108, 97 cuts. 

CONTENTS. 

Sfiontilic Writings of Joseph Hexky. Vol. i, 188G, Svo., pp. ;">;>(>, 4it cuts; 
Vol. II, L-8G, 8vo., p}). 5G7,48 cuts. No. .^)r)0. 

559. Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections. Vol. xxxl 8vo., pj). D'JO. 



Synoptical Flora of North America; tlu? Gaui(ij)t'tla', l)cin<;- a second edition 
of Vol. I, Part 11, and Vol. ii, Part I, collected. By A.sa Gray. 188G. 
8vo., pp. 'J84. No. .^)[»1. 

560. Beport on PharmacopaMiis of all Nations. 1883. 8vo,, i)p. 28. By 

J. M. Flint, U. S. Navy. (Extracted from the Report of the 
Surgeon General of the IJ. S. Navy for ls82.) 

561. Coronado's March in Search of the "Seven Cities of Cibola," and 

discussion of their probable location. By J. JL Slaipson, C()h)nel 
of Engineers, U. S. Army. 1884. 8vo., pp.31, 1 map. (From 
the Smithsonian Report, 18(»1).) 

562. Catalogue of the Aquatic Mammals exhibited by the U. S. National 

Museum. London Fisheries Exhibition. By Frederick W. 
True, 1884. 8vo., pp. 32. Part of Bulletin National IMuseum. 
No. 27. (See No. 511.) 

563. The Geology of Bermuda. By William North Rice. 1884. 

8vo., pp. 32, plates. {Fart i, Bulletin National Museum, xVo. 
25.) (See No. 495.) 

564. The Botany of Bermuda. By John Henry Lefroy. 1884. 8vo., 

pp. 112. {Part II, Bulletin National Museum, No. 25.) (See No. 
495.) 
465. The Mammals of Bermuda. By J. Matthew Jone.s. 1884. 8vo., 
pp. 19. [Fart iii, Bulletin National Ahisenm, No. 25. (See No. 
495.) 

566. The Birds of Bermuda. By Saville G. Reid. 1884. 8vo., pi). 

117. [Fart iv, BvMetin National Museum., No. 25. (See No. 495.) 

567. On a Bird New to the Bermudas, witii notes upon several species 

of rare or accidental occurrence in these Islands. By Clinton 
Hart Merriam. 1884. ])p. i\. {Fart v, Bulletin National 
Museum., No. 25.) (See No. 495.) 

568. The Reptiles of Bermuda. By Samuel Garman. 1884. 8vo., 

l»p. 22. {Fart Yi, Bulletin National Museum, No. 25.) 



590 CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 

569. Aiuic'lida from Bermuda. Collected by G. Brown Goode. By 

H. E. Webster. 1881. 8vo., pp. 26, 6 plates. (Part vii, 
Bulletin National Musenm, No. 25.) 

570. Bibliographies of A.mericaii Naturalists, ii. The Published 

Writings of Isaac Lea. By Newton Pratt Scudder. 1885. 
8vo., })p. 337, 1 portrait. {Bulletin National Museum, No. 23.) 

571. Checklist of publications of the Smithsonian Institution from De- 

cember, 1881, to March, 1884. 1884. 8vo., pp. 7. 

572. Circular relative to Contributions of Aboriginal Antiquities to the 

U. S. National Museum. By C. lUu. 1883. pp. 6. Circular 
National Museum, No. 21.) 

573. Price List of Publications of the Smithsonian Institution, Washing- 

ton, D. C, March, 1884. 8vo., pp. G. 

574. An Account of the Progress in Astronomy in the Year 1883. By 

Edward S. Holden. (From the Smithsonian lieport for 1883.) 
1884. 8vo., pp. 78. 

575. An Account of the Progress in Geology in the Year 1883. By T. 

Sterry Hunt. (From the Smithsonian Eeport for 1883.) 
1884. 8vo., pp. 22. 

576. An Account of the Progress iu Geography in the Year 1883. By 

F. M. Green, U. S. Navy. (From the Smithsonian B-eport for 
1883.) 1884. 8vo., pp. 17. 

577. An Account of the Progress in Meteorology in the Year 1883. By 

Cleveland Abbe. (From the Smithsonian Eeport for 1883. 
1881. 8vo., pp. 92. 

578. An Account of the Progress in Physics in the Year 1883. By 

George F. Barker. (From the Smithsonian Report for 1883.) 
1884. 8vo., pp. 52. 

579. An Acc(nint of the Progress in Chemistry in the Year 1883. By 

H. Carrinoton Bolton. (From the Smithsonian Report for 
1883.) 1884. 8vo., pp. 31. 

580. An Account of the Progress in Mineralogy iu the Year 1883. B3' 

Edward S. Dana. (From the Smithsonian Report for 1883.) 
1884. 8vo., pp. 19. 

581. An Account of the Progress in Botany in the Year 1883. By 

William G. Farlow. (From the Smithsonian Report for 
1883.) 1884. 8vo., pp. 18. 

582. An Account of the Progress in Zoology iu the Year 1883. By 

Theodore Gill. (From the Smithsonian Report for 1883.) 
1884. 8vo., pp. 53. 

583. An Account of the Progress in Anthropology in the year 1883. 

By Otis T. Mason. (From the Smithsonian Report for 1883.) 
1884. 8vo., pp. 43. 



CATALOGUE OF rUBLICATIONS. 591 

584. Tlie Aurora Borealis, or Polar Light: it.s Plienomena and Laws. 
By Elias Loomis. (From the Sinitlisoiiiau Keport for 18ii,").) 
8vo., pp. 41, C cuts. 

685. Addresses at the Unveiling' of the Jose])h Henry Statue at Wash- 
ington, D. C, Ai)ril 19, 1883. By Chief Justice Waite, 
Chancellor of the Smithsonian [ustitution, and NoAii Porter, 
President of Yale College. (From the Smithsonian Peport for 
1883.) 1884. 8vo., pp. 27, 1 plate. 

586. Report of Spencer F. Baird, Secretary of the Smithsonian Insti- 

tution for the Year 1883. 1885. 8vo., pp. SG. 

587. lieport of the Assistant Director and of the Curators of the TJ. S. 

National ]\Iuseum for the Year 1883. (From the Smithsonian 
Report for 1883.) 1885. 8vo., pp. 200. 

588. Miscellaneous Papers relating to Anthropology. (From the Smith- 

sonian Report for 1883.) 1885. 8vo., pp. 122, 33 cuts. 

589. Brief Directions for Removing and Preserving the Skins of Mam- 

mals. By William T. Horn ad ay. 1883. 8vo., pp. 7, 4 cuts. 
{Circular of National Museum, No. 22.) 

590. Instructions for Taking Paj)er Molds of Inscriptions in Stone, 

Wood, Bronze, etc. Prepared by A. P. iS^iblack, U. S. Navy. 

1883. 8vo., PI). 5. {Circular of Xational Museum, No, 23.) 

591. Synoptical Flora of North America: The GamopetahT, being a 

second edition of Vol. i, Part ii, and Vol. it, Part i. By Asa 
Gray. 188(>. 8vo., pp. 984. (xM. C, xxxi.) 

592. Bulletin of the Philosophical Society of Washington. Vol. yii, 

Containing the Minutes of the Society and of the Mathematical 
Section for the year 1884. January 5, 1884, to December 20, 

1884. Published by the co-operation of the Smithsonian In- 
stitution. I'S^o. 8 vo., pp. 105, G cuts. (M. C, xxxiii.) 

593. Annual Report of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Insti- 

tution for the year 1883. Forty-eighth Congress, first session. 
House Mis. Doc. No. 09. 1885. 8vo., pp. 997, 1 plate, 33 cuts. 

CONTENTS. 

Journal of Pioceodiiigs of the Board of Regents. 
Report of the Executive Committee for the year 1883. 
Report of the Executive Committee on the Henry Statue. 
Baird, S. F. Secretary's report of operations. 

The Suiitlisonian Institution. 

National Museum. 

Bureau of Ethnology. 

U. S. Geological Survey. 

U. S. Fish Counnission. . . 

Appendix to the Report of the Secretary. 

Correspondence on Asttouonjical Anuor.ncements. 

Report on exchanges for 1883. 

Report on National Museum by Assistant Director and Curators. 



592 CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 

Keconl of ScitMitific Progress for 1883. 

Baiud, S. F. lutroductiou. 

HoLDEX, E. S. Astroiioiny. 

Hunt, T. Stekrv. Geology. 

Greex, F. M. Geography. 

Abbe, C. Meteorology. 

Barker, George F. Physics. 

Bolton, H. C. Chemistry 

Daxa, E. S. Mineralogy. 

Farlow, W. G. Botany. 

Gill, T. Zoology. 

Mason, O. T. Anthropology. 
Papers relating to Anthropology. 

HowiTT, A. W. Australian Group Relations. 

Wickersham, James. Mounds in Sangamon County, 111. 

Adams, W. H. Mounds in Spoon River Valley, Illinois. 

Foerste, Aug. A. Ancient Relics at Dayton, Ohio. 

MacLean, J. P. Mounds in Butler County, Ohio. 

MacLeax, J. P. Earth-work in Highland County, Ohio. 

Taylor, William J. Mounds in Berrien County, Ga. 

Walker, S. T. Mounds and shell heaps on the West Coast of Florida. 

Kengla, L. a. Stone mounds in Hampshire County, W. Va. 

Ruth, John A. Remains in Bucks County, Pa. 

Booth, Henry. Remains in Ponghkeepsie, N. Y. 

Chase, Henry E. Notes on the Wampanoag Indians of Massachusetts- 

Nutting, Charles C. Antiquities of Ometepe, Nicaragua. 

DoRSEY, Rev. J. Owen. On the Comparative Phonology of Four 
Sioux Languages. 

594. The Toner Lectures. Lecture ix. IMental Overwork and Prema- 

ture Disease among Public and Professional Men. By Charles 
K. Mills. Delivered March 19, 1884. 1885, January. 8vo., 
pp. 38. 

595. The Kefraction of Sound. By William B. Taylor. (From the 

Smithsonian Keport for 1875.) 1885. 8vo., pp. 12, G cuts. 

596. Australian Group Eelations. By A. W. Howitt. (From the 

Smithsonian Eeport for 1883.) 1885. pp. 28, 1 map. 

597. Plan of a Collection to illustrate the Textile Industries of the 

United States, to be exhibited at the World's Industrial and 
Cotton Centennial Exposition of 1884-1885, at New Orleans. 
By KoMYN Hitchcock. 1884. 8vo., pp. 16. {Circular National 
Museum, No. 24.) 

598. Preliminary Plan for a Collection of the Building and Ornamental 

Stones and Rocks of the United States, to be exhibited at the 
World's Industrial and Cotton Centennial Exposition of 1884- 
1885, at New Orleans. By George P. Merrill. 1884. 8vo.,pp. 
2. {Circular National Museum, No. 25.) 

599. Plan for a Collection of Gems and Precious Stones, to be exhibited 

at the Cincinnati Industrial X^lxposition and the World's In- 
dustrial and Cotton Centennial Exposition of 1884-1885, at New 
Orleans. By F. W. Clarke. 1884. 8vo., pp. 2. {Circular Na- 
tional Museum No. 26.) 



CATALOG IJ I-: OF PUBLIC ATION.S. 593 

600. I)irectiou8 for Collect in ^r, Preservings, and Transporting Tortricids 

ami other small Alotlis, By C. II. Fernald. 18SI. Svo., pp. 
3. {Circular National Museum^ Ko. 27.) 

601. Directions for Mound Explorations. By Cyrus Thomas. 1884. 

Svo., ]>p. 3. {Circuhtr ^(fiional j^iuscum, Xo. 28.) 

602. Provisional Plan for a Collection of Mammals to be exhibited at 

the World's Industrial and Cotton Centennial Exposition of 
1884-1885, at New Orleans. By Frederick W. True. 1884. 
Svo., pp. 27. {Circular National Museum^ No. 29.) 

603. A List of Birds, the Eggs of which are wanted to complete the 

series in the National Museum, with instructions for collecting 
Eggs. By Charles E. Bendire, U. S. Army. 1884.. 8vo., 
pp. 4. {Circular National Museum, No. 30.) 

604. Plan to illustrate the Mineral Resources of the United States and 

their Utilization, at the World's Industrial and Cotton Centen- 
nial Exhibition of 1884-1885, at New Orleans. By Fred. P. 
Dewey. 1884. 8vo., pp. 8, {Circular National Museum, No. 
31.) 

605. On the Comparative Phonology of Four Sioux Languages. By 

J. Owen Dorsey. 1885. pp. 11. (From the Smithsonian Be- 
port for 1883.) 

606. Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge. Volume xxv. 1885. 

4to., pp. 508. 540 cuts, 8 plates with 155 figures. 

CONTENTS. 

Preliistoric Fisliin<; in Europe and North America. By Cn.vnLKS Rau. 1864. 

4to., pp. oGO, 40.5 cuts, 1 plate. No. .509. 
ArclKeological Reaearclies in Nicaraj;na. 15y J. F. Biiansford, M. D., 

Passed Assistant Surgeon, U. S. Navy. 1881. Pp. 100, 20-J cuts, 2 plates 

with 40 figures. No. 3ri3. 
On the Contents of a I'one Cave in the Island of Aiiguilla, West Indies. 

By Edward D. Con:. 1883. 4to., pp. :54, 5 ]ilates v.ith 114 figures. 

No. 489. 

607. Proceedings of the U. S. National Museum. Volume vii. 1884. 

8vo., pp. GCl), 8 cuts, 2 [)lates with 10 figures. 

CONTENTS. 

Bean, TAr.LEXON II. Description of a new species of Whitelish {Coinjoiiua 
iielsouii) from Alaska. 
Descriptions of /7(//s(tH/».s/«/('(r.s' and J.otdla nuuillann, new species of 

Fishes collected in 1881 by the U. S. Fish Commission. 
On tlie occurrence of the Striped Bass in the Lower Mississippi Valley. 
(See also under Goode aiul Bean.) 

Bean, Tarletox IT., and Dresel, II. G. A catalogue of Fi.shes received 
from the Public Museum of the Institute of .Jamaica, with descrip- 
tions of rrisl'qwma aj'pi'oximaiis and 7'_y/osH?'«s eunjops, two nev^ 
species. 

H. Mis. 170 38 



594 CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 

Bkndiue, Capt. Ciiaklks, U. S. Akmy. Circular No. 30, Appendix: A 
list of Birds, the Eggs of which are -wanted to complete the series 
in the National Museum, with instructions for collecting Eggs. 

Clarke, F. W. Circular No. 2V>, Appendix: Plan for a collection of Gems 
and Precious Stones, to he exhibited at the Cincinnati Industrial 
Exposition and the World's Industrial and Cotton Centennial Ex- 
position of 18:^4-18Sr>, at New Orleans. 

Dai.l, W. 11. Contributions to the History of the Commander Islands. No. 
;?. — Eeport on the3iollusca of the Commander Islands, Bering Sea, 
collected by Leonhard Stejneger in 1^82 and 1883. {Lacunella re- 
flexa, n. s., Plate ii, Figs. 1-3; Cerithiopsiss iejnegeri, n. s., Plate ii, 
Fig. 4; Stromhella callorhina var. stejnegen, Plate ii, Fig. 5.) 
New or specially interesting Shells of the Point Barrow Expedition. 
(Bela hnrpa, n. s., B. murdochiana, n. s., Plate ii, Fig. 8; Chrysodo- 
mus Kroijeri var. Ilaijana, var. nov., Stromhella malleata, u. s.) 

Dewey, Fred. P. Circular No. 31, Appendix: Plan to illustrate the Min- 
eral Resources of the United States and their utilization, at the 
World's Industrial and Cotton Centennial Exposition of 1884-188ij, 
.■it New Orleans. 

Dresel, H. G. Notes on some Greenland Fishes. 

Description of a new species of Flounder, Ciiharichthys macrops, from 
Pensacola, Fla. 
(See also under Bean and Drcoel.) 

Fernald, C. H. Circular No. 27, Appendix: Directions for collecting, pre- 
serving, and transporting Tortricids and other small Moths. 

Gilbert, Charles H. A list of Fishes collected in the East Fork of White 

River, Indiana, with descriptions of two new species. (Hypargy- 

rus, u, g., Forbes; Xofropis hoops, n. s. ; Xocomis hyostomus, n. s. ; 

Serraria, n. g. ) 

Notes on the Fishes of Switz City Swamp, Greene County, Ind. ( Poeci- 

llchtliys palusfris, n. s.) 
Description of three new Fishes from Kansas. (Amiui-iis crayiiii, Cliola 
{Hyhopsis) fopeka, Miiinihis {Lytlirurus) nigripiunis, nn. ss. ) 
(See also under .Jordan and Gilbert.) 

Gill, Theodore. Synopsis of the Genera of the super-family Teuthidoidea 
(families Teuthdidie and Siganidie.) ( Ctenochwtus, n. g., Colocopus, 
n. g., C. lamhdnrus, new name.) 
Note on the Sternoptychidse. (/HiOHn', uom. nov. The figure of iSfer- 

noptyx dia2)haHus is uot published.) 
The osteological characters of the Lutjanhia'. 
A contribution to the terminology of Ichthyography. 
Synopsis of the Plectognath Fishes. {Triodontoidea, n. super-fam 
Masttirtts, n. g. ) 

Gill, Theodore, and Ryder, John A. On the literature and systematic 
relations. of the Saccopharyngoid Fishes. (With Plate i (Ophiog- 
iiathus ampuUaceus) ex Harwood.) 

Goode, G. Brown, and Bean, Tarleton H. Notes on some Florida Fishes. 
{Lufjanus stearnsii, Luijanus hlackfordii, Caulolatihts microps, Xy- 
richthys psittacus, Sparus jja(7r«s. ) 

Gray, Asa. Contributions to the History of the Commander Lslands. No. 
4. A. — Notes upon the Plants collected on the Commander Islands 
(Bering and Copper Islands), by Leonhard Stejneger. 

Hitchcock, Romyn. Circular No. 24, Appendix: Plan of a collection to 
illustrate the Textile Industries of the United States, to be exhib- 
ited at the World's Industrial and Cotton Centennial Exposition of 
J884-1885, at New Orleans, 



CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS 595 

louDAN, David S. Notes ou a collection of Fishes from reiisacohi, Fla., ob- 
tained by Silas Stearns, with descriptions of two now species {Exo- 
coctus volador and Gnalhypops mystacinus). 

Note on xElurichthys eydouxii and Forichlhys porosisslmus. 

List of Fishes collected at Key West, Fla., with notes and (Icscriptioiis 
{Xarcine umhrosa, n.H.). 

An identification of the figures of Fishes in Catesby's Natural History 
of Carolina, Florida, and the Bahama Islands. 

Notes on Fishes collected at Guaynias, Jlexico, by Mr. IF. 1'. KMicric, 
with a description of Goblosoma histrio, a new species. 

List of Fishes collected in the vicinity of New Orleans, l)y Dr. U. W. 
Shufeldt, U. S. Army. 

List of Fishes collected in Lakejessu]) and Indian Kivcr, Fh)rida, by Mr. 
R. E. Earll, with descriptions of two new species {Lleterandria om- 
mata, Elassoma erei-gladn, i\n. an.). 

Descriptions of four new species of Fa'cilichthys in the U. S. National 
iluseum (r. borealis, F. quicscens, P. swaini, F. icani, nn. ss.). 

Supplementary notes on North American Fishes {Fcecilichthys hcani, 
Jordan ^ Boleosoma maculatiim. 

Dcsci'iptiou of a now species of Ilyhognathus (Hyhognathus hayi) from 
Mississippi. 
JoitDAX, David S., and Gilp.krt, Ciiakle.s II. A review of the species of 
the genus Calamus. 

Descriiitions of ten New Species of Fishes from Key "West, Fla. ( Du.i, 
sumieria Htolifcra, ^J'ylosiirufi sagitfa, Qiierimanagyratis, Aihcrina anra- 
Xyrichthys 7'osi2)CS, Soratonotus fhalasshius, Gohiosoma cciUha^cum, 
Cremnohates i\ox, FJatoplirys nahularis, Achirus comifer, nn.ss.) 

Note on Caranx ruber and Caranx iartholomcei. 

Note on Calarmis proridcns, a New Species of Calamus. 

Description of Scicrna sciera, a New Species of Sciana from Mazatlau 
and Panama. 
Jordan, David S., and Meek, Seth E. List of Fishes observed in the St. 
John's River, at Jacksonville, Fla. (Faralichihys Uthosligma, nom. 
sp. nov.) 

Description of lour New S])eci<'S of (iprinldw in the U. S. National Mu- 
seum. (ClioJa cnmura, C. <iroi<iigma, Notropis metaJlkus, N. ala- 
bama', nn. ss. ) 

Description of Zygouccia :oriifcr, a New Species of Zygonci'icn, lioin 
Nashville, Ga. 
JoitDAN, David S., and Swain, Joseph. Descriptions of Scaroid Fi.slics 
from Havana and Key West, including five New Species. {Smru^ 
virginalis, Sjyarisoma lorito, S.cyanolene, S. xystrodoit, Cryplolomna 
bcryllinus, nn.ss.) 

Notes ou Fishes collected by David S. Jordan at Cedar Keys, Fla. 

A Review of the American Species of Marino iliigilidw. 

A Review of the Species of the Genus Hwmulon. {/j/llnuhDi, n. s'g., 
Hccmulou riinafor, nom. nov.) 

A Review of the American Species of Epincplulus and related genera. 
{Mycteropercafitlcatn var. phoia.r, var. nov., M.botwci var. jauUios- 
iicta, var. nov.) 

A Review of the Species of Lutjaniiia; and IIoplapoyyiiKV found in Amer- 
ican water. 

Description of tbri'c New Species of Fishes ( Frioriotas sicanisi, I'liunotiia 
ophryas, and Anthias rivatnis) collected at Pensacola. Fla., by Mr, 
Silas Stearns. 



596 CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 

Meek, Seth E. Description of a New Species of Htihopsis {liyhopsis mon- 

tanus). (See also under Jordan and Meek and Swain and Meek.) 
Merkill, George P. On ProcLlorito from the District of Colniubia. 
Circular No. 25, appendix : Preliminary plan for a Collection of the Building 

and Ornamental Stones and Eocks of the United States, to be exhib- 
ited at the World's Industrial and Cotton Centennial Exposition 

of 1884-'85, at New Orleans. 
MURUOCK, John. Description of seven New Species of Crustacea and one 

Worm from Arctic Alaska (Pandalas dapifcr, Mysisran'ii, Acanthro- 

zone pohjacantha, Melita formosa, M. leonis, DuUchia arctlca, Poly- 

artemia hazeni, ArenicoJa glacialis, nn. ss.) 
Nelson, E. W. A new geographical race of the Mountain Sheep ( Ovis diou- 

tana daUi, var. nov.) from Alaska. 
Prime, Temple. DescriY)tion of a New Species of Si^harium (SjihosriHm 

cosfariceries, n. s.) 
Kathbun, Eichard. Annotated List of the Described Species of Parasitic 

Copepoda {Siphonostoma^ from American waters, contained in the 

U. S. National Museum. 
EiDGWAY, Egbert. Note on Selaspliorus iorridus Salvia . 
Melanctta fusca (Linn.) in Alaska. 
Description of a New Snow Bunting from Alaska. {Phciropltcnax. Injper- 

horeus, n. s.) 
On a Collection of Birds made by Messrs J. E. Benedict and W.Nye, of 

the U. S. Fish Commission steamer Albaiross. {Alhnits tjilvus rostra 

ills, n.subsp. , Dendroica rvfojnJeata, u.s., Jcterus carasocnsis, u.s., 

CcrihioJa tricolor, n.s., VireosyJvia gravdior, u. s., Vij-eo approsiinans, 

u. s., EJainea cinerescens, n. s. ) 
Description of a New Species of Field-sparrow from New Mexico. {Spi- 

zella tcorihena, n, s.) 
Description of a New Species of Coot from the West Indies. {Ftilica 

carihopa, u. s.) 
Description of a New Eace of the Eed-shouldered Hawk from Florida. 

(Buleo Jineaivs alleni, n.subsp.) 
On two hitherto unnamed Sparrows from the coast of California. ( Pas- 

st:rcules heldbuji, n.s., P. Sandivichensis hryanti, n.subsp.) 
EOTHKOCK, Dr. J. T. List of, and notes upon, the Lichens collected by Dr. 

T. 11. Bean in Alaska and the adjacent region in 1880. [Biaiora 

Sibiriensis, Willey, n. sp.) 
Eyder, John A. On the Chlorophylloid Granules of Vorticella. (See also 

under Gill and Eyder.) 
Snx'rKLDT, Dr. E. W. Concerning some of the forms assumed by t'.ic Patella 

in Birds (with 7 figures in the text.) 
Observation upon a Collection of Insects made' in tlie vicinity of New 

Orleans, La., during the years 1882 and 1883 (witli 1 figure in the 

text.) 
Slade, Elisiia. On domesticated Hybrid Ducks (Anas boschas—ohscuro). 
Smith, Sidney I. On some new or little known Decapod Crustacea, fn>m 

recent Fish Commission dredgings ofi" the east coast of the United 

States. (Anamaihia, nom. g. u.; Miimdoptfin cruhsa, M. nimilis, Bi/- 

iliocaris (jracUis, B. nana, J canthej)]) ura microph ihalma, A. brevirostris, 

nn. ss. ; Epliyrina, n. g. ; Epliyrina bciiedicti, n. s. ; Bcutlioiicctes, n. g. ; 

BeiifJioncctes Jilipes, n. s.) 
Smith, Eosa. Notes on Fishes collected at San Cristobal, Lower California, 

bv Mr. Charley li. Townseud, assi.stant, U. S. Fish Commission, 



CATALOGUE OP PUBLICATIONS. 597 

Stejneger, LEONiiAi;r>. On iue use of Trinoiniuul.s in Aiuciicau Ornithol- 
ogy. 
Contributions to the biatory of tho Commander lislands. No. 2. — In- 
vestigations relating to the dale of the extermination of .Steller's 
Sea-cow. 
Remarks on the Species of the Genus Ccpphiis. 

Contributions to the history of the Commander I.siand.s. No. 4. IJ.— 
Additional Notes ou the Plants of the Commander Islands. {('(issi<>j)c 
oxi/cocciodes, Asa Gray, ii. s.) 
Swain, Joseph, and Meek, Setu E. Notes on the Pipe-fi.sheH of Key 
West, Fla., with description of Sqjhostoma McKayi, a new species. 
{Siphostoma barharw, n. sp.) 
(See also Jordan and Swain.) 
Thomas, Cyrus. Circular No. 28, Appendix : Direeti.ins for Mound Explo- 
ration. 
Translation (from der Naturforsehor). Hermaphrodite Fishes. 
True, Frederick W. Ou a now Mufhrat, Ncofibcr alleni, from Florida. 
On the occurrence of Loncheres annalns (GeoH.) Wagner, in the island 

Martinique, West Indies. 
Circular No. 29, Appendix: Provisional plan for a Collection of Mam- 
mals to be exhibited at the World's Industrial and Cotton Centen- 
nial Exposition of 1884-'t'5, at New Orleans. 
A Provisional List of the Mammals of North and (Central America, and the 
West Indian Islands. 

608. Eeport of Spencer F. Baird, Secretary of the Siiiitlisouiau Institu- 

tion for the year 1884, 1885. Svo., pp. 98. 

609. An xlccount of the Progress in Astronomy in the year 1884. Ey 

Edward S. Holden. (From the Smithsonian Eeport for 1884.) 
1885. 8vo., pp. 55. 

610. A Eeview of the Progress of Xorth American Pahijontology for the 

year 1884. Ey John Belknap Marcou. (From the Smithso- 
nian Eeport for 1884.) 1885. 8vo., pp. 20. 

611. An Account of the Progress in Geography in tlie year 1884. By 

F. M. Green, U. S. Navy. (From the Smithsonian Ee[>ort for 
1884.) 1885. 8vo., pp. 10. 

612. An Accoiiut of the Progress in Meteorology in the year 1884. By 

Cleveland Abbe. (From the Smitlisonian lieport for 1884. 
1885.) 8vo., pp. 17C. 

613. An Account of the Progress in Physics in the year 1884. By 

George F. Barker. (From the Smithsonian Eeport for 1884. 
1885.) 8vo., pp. 57. 

•614. An Account of the Progress in Chemistry in the year 1884. By 
n. Carrington Bolton. (From the Smithsonian Eeport for 

1884.) 1885. 8vo., pp. 52. 

S15. An Account of the Progress in Mineralogy in the year 1884. By- 
Edward S. Dana. (From the Smithsonian Eeport for 1884.) 
1885. 8vo., pp. 19. 



598 CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 

616. An Account of tbe Progress in Yulcanology and Seismology in the 

years, 188;3, 1884:. By Charles G. RocK^YOOD, jr. (From the 
Smithsonian Keport for 1884.) 1885. 8vo., pp. 21. 

617. An Account of the Progress in Zoology in the year 18S4. By 

Theodore Gill. (From the Smithsonian Keport for 1884.) 
1885. 8vo., pp. 93. 

618. An Account of the Progress hi Anthropology in the year 1884. 

By Otis T. Mason. (From the Smithsonian Report for 188 1.) 
1885. 8vo., pp. 41. 

619. Antiquities at Pantaleon, Guatemala, By Charles E. Veee- 

LAND, XJ. S. Xavy, and J. F. Bransford, U. S. Navy. (From 
the Smithsonian Keport for 1881.) 1885. 8vo., pp. 12, 12 cuts. 

620. Papers relating to Anthropology. (From the Smithsonian lleport 

for 1884.) 1885. 8vo., pp. 38, IG cuts. 

621. The Guesde Collection of Antiquities in Point-a-Pitre, Guadeloupe, 

West Indies. By Otis T. Mason. (From the Smithsonian Re- 
port for 1884.) 1885. 8vo., pp. 107, 215 cuts. 

622. Classitication of the Materia Medica Collection of the U. S. Na- 

tional Museum, and Catalogue of Specimens. By James M. 
Flint, U. S. Navy. Revised and extended by Henry G. 
Beyer, U. S. Navy, Honorary Curator, Section of Materia 
Medica. 1885. 8vo., }){). oD. {Circular National Museum, No. 
32.) 
G23. Annual Report of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Insti- 
tution for the year 1884. Forty-eighth Congress, second session. 
Senate Mis. Doc. No. 33. 1885. 8vo,, pp. 943, 243 cuts, 7 plates. 

COXTKXTS. 
Journul of Procccdiiiijs of tbe Board of Regents. 
Report of the Executive Committee for the year 1884. 
Report of the Architects ou recoustruction of eastern portion of the 

Smithsonian Building. 
Baird, S. F. Secretary's re^iort of operations. 

The Smithsonian Institution. 

National Museum. 

Bureau of Ethnology. 

U. S. Geological Survey. 

U. S. Fish Commission. 
Appendix to the Report of the Secretary. 
Record of Scientific Progress, 1884 : 

Baikd, S. F. Introduction. 

HoLDEN, E. S. Astronomy. 

RocKWOOD, C. G. Vulcanology and Seismology. 

Gi:kkx, F. M. Geography. 

Abuk, C. Meteorology. 

lk)LTc)X, H. C. Chemistry. 

Daxa, E. S. Mineralogy. 

Mahcou, J. B. Invertebrate Paheontology. 

Gill, T. Zoology. 

Mason, O. T. Anthropology. 



CATALOGUE OF TUBLICATIONS. 599 

Miscellaneous Papers. — Papors n^latiuji to Anthropology : 

VuEELAND, C. E., and Bkaxskuud, J. F. xVntiquities at Pantalcon. 

Guatemala. 
Masox, O. T. The Guesde Collection of Anliiiuitius in I'oint-a-Pitre, 

Guadeloupe. 
Leach, M. T. Ancient mounds in Clinton County, Mich. 
Leach, M. T. Ancient forts in Ogeuiaw County, Mich. 
Smith, Chaki.es M. Sketch of Flint Kidge, Licking County, Ohio. 
WiLTHEiss, E. T. Earthworks and mounds in Miami County, Ohio. 

624. Results of Oruitliological Explorations in the Commander Island.^ 

and in Kamtschatka. By Leoniiard Stejneger. 18S5. 8vo., 
pp. 382, 8 plates, 7 cuts, and 1 sketch maj). {Bulletin National 
Museum, No. 29.) 

625. Bibliographies of American Naturalists, iii. Bibliography of 

Publications relating to the collection of Fossil Invertebrates 
in the U. S. National Museum, including complete lists of the 
writings of Fielding B. Meek, Charles A. White, and Charles 
D. Walcott. By John Belknap Marcou. 1885. 8vo., pp. 
333. [Bulletin National Museum, No. 30.) 

626. Notes on the Preparation of Rough Skeletons. By Frederic A. 

Lucas. 1885, 8vo., ])p. 8, 12 cuts. [Circular National Mitscmn, 
No. 33.) 

627. Price list of Publications of the Smithsonian Institution, July, 

1885, (From the Smithsonian Report for 1885.) 8vo., pj). 27. 

628. Index to the Literature of Uranium, 1789-1885. By U. Carring- 

TON Bolton, 1885. (From the Smithsonian Report for 1885.) 
8vo., pp. 3G. 

629. Report of Spencer F. Baird, Secretary of the Smithsonian 

Institution, for six months ending June 30, 1885. 1885. 8vo., 
pp. 4G. 

630. Transactions of the Anthropological Society of Washington, 

Vol. in. November 0, 1883-May 19, 1885. Svo., pp. 204. 13 
cuts. 

631. Third Annual Report of the Bureau of Ethnology to the Secre- 

tary of the Smithsonian Institution. 1881-1882, By J. W. 
Powell, Director. 1884. Royal 8vo., pp. G80, 200 cuts, 44 
plates. 

CONTENTS. 

Powell, J. W. Report of the Director of the Bureau. 

Thomas, Cyrus. Notes ou certain Maya and Mexican manuscripts, 

DoBSEY, J. OwEX. Omaha Sociology. 

Matthews, Dr. Washiugtou Navajo Weavers. 

Holmes, W. H. Prehistoric Textile Fabrics of the. ITuited States, derived 

from impressions on Pottery. 
Holmes, W. II. Illustrated Catalogue of a portion of the collections nuido 

during the field seasou of 1881. 
Stevenson, James. Illustrated Catalogue of tlie collections obtained 

from the Pueblos of New Mexico aiul Arizona in 1881. 



600 CATALOGtail OP^ PUBLICATIONS. 

632. An Account of the ProgTOSs iu Grcogiapliy in the year 1885. By 

J. King Goodrich. (Froin the Smithsonian lvei)ort for 1885.) 
1S8G. 8vo., pp. 30. 

633. An Account of the Progress in Chemistry in the year 1885. By 

fl. Carrington Bolton. (From the Smithsonian lieport for 
1885.) 1886. 8vo., pp. 50. 

634. An Account of the Progress iu Vulcanohigy and Seismology in 

the year 1885. By Charles G. IIockwoou, Jr. (From the 
Smithsonian Report for 1S85.) 1880. 8vo., }j[). 2i. 

635. List of Foreign Correspondents of the Smithsonian Institution. 

Corrected to July 1, 1885. By George H. Boehmer. (From 
the Smithsonian Keport for 1885.) 1880, 8vo., pp. -01. 

636. Bulletin of the Philosophical Society of Washington. Volume viir, 

containing the Minutes of the Society and of the IMaMiematical 
section for the year 1885. January 3, 1885-Deceml)ei- 10, 1885. 
1880. 8vo., pp. 115, 8 cuts. (M. C. xxxiii.) 

637. Concerning the Lending of Type Specimens. By S. F. Baird. 

1880. 8v'o., pp. 1. ( Circular National Museum, No. 35.) 

638. Aji Account of the Progress in Physics in the year 1885. By 

George F. Barker. (From the Smithsonian Report for 1885.) 
1880. 8vo., ])p. 00. 

639. An Account of the Progress in Mineralogy in the year 1885. By 

Edward S. Dana. (From the Smithsonian Report for 1885.) 
1880. 8vo., pp. 20. 

640. An Account of the Progress iu Anthropology in the year 1885. 

By Otis T. Mason. (From the Smithsonian Report for 1885.) 
1880. Pp. 50. 

641. An Account of the Progress in Astronomy in the year 1885. By 

William C. Winlock. (From the Smithsonian Report for 
1885.) 1886. Pp. 111. 

642. Record of North American Invertebrate Paleontology for the year 

1885. By John Belknap Marcou. (From the Smithsonian 
Report for 1885.) 1880. Pp. 47. 

643. An Account of the Progress in Zoology in the year 1885. J^y 

Theodore Gill. (From the Smithsonian Report for 1885.) 

1886. 8vo., pp. 53. 

644. Observations on Volcanic Eruptions and Earthquakes in Iceland 

within Ilistoric Times. Translated and condensed from a his- 
tory by Th. Tlioroddsen. By GEORGE U. Boehmer. (From 
the Smithsonian Report for 1885.) 1880. 8vo,, pj). 47. 

645. Miscell.ineous Papers relating to AntIiroi)ol()gy. (From the Smith- 

sonian Report for 1885.) 1886. 8vo., pp. 41, 10 cuts. 



CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS, 601 

846. Circular for the Guidance of Persons dcsirin-x to make Exclianges 
of Birds or J>ird Eggs with the National ^Museum. {CireuJar 
National Mtiscion, Ko. 34.) 

647. Kesearcbes upon the Venom of Poisonous Serpents. J>yS. Weir, 
Mitchell, M. U., and Edwakd T. Ukiciiert, IM. 1). 1880. 
4to,, pp. 190, 5 cuts, 5 plates with 17 figures. 

848. Annual Report of the Board of Regents of the Sinitlisoniaii In- 
stitution for the year 1881. Part ii. Kei)ort of the U. IS. Na- 
tional Museum under the direction of the Smithsonian Institu- 
tion for the year 1884. Forty-eighth Congress, second session, 
Senate Mis. Doc. No. 33. 1885. 8vo., pp. 408. 

, CONTENTS. 

GOODE, G. B. Report of the Assistant Director. 
Rejiort of the Curators aud Actiuj^ Curators. 

Beyer, Dr. H. G., IT. S. Navy. Seel ion of Materia Medica. 
Hitchcock, Romyn. Section of Textile Industries. 
Collins, J. W. Section of Naval Architecture. 
Hitchcock, Romyn. Section of Foods. 
Mason, Dr. O. T. Departiueut of Ethnology. 
Holmes, William H. Section of American Aboriginal Pottery. 
Eau, Dr. Charles. Department of Antiquities. 
True, Frederick W. Department of Mammals. 
Eidgway, Robert. Department of Birds. 
Yarrow, Dr. II. C. Department of Reptiles and Batrachiaiis. 
Bean, Dr. Tarleton H. De})artmentof Fishes (inelading also rejjort 
upon Ichthyological Explorations made in behalf of the Museum 
by Dr. D. S. Jordan). 
Dall, William H. Department of Mollusks. 
EiLEY, Dr. C. V. Department of Insects. 
Eathbun, Richard. Department of Marine Invertebrates. 
Walcott, C. D. Department of Invertebrate Fossils (Paleozoic). 
White, Dr. C. A. Department of Invertebrate Fossils (Meso-Cenozoic). 
Ward, Lester F. Department of Fossil Plants. 
Clarke, Prof. F. W. Department of Mineralogy. 

Merrill, George P. Department of Lithology and Physical Geology. 
Dewey, Fred. P. Department of Metallurgy and Economic Geology. 
Part hi.— Papers based on Collections ix the National jNIcseum. 
Mason, Otis T. l— Throwing sticts in the National Museum. 
Mason, OtisT. ii.— Basket-work of the North American Aborigines. 
Murdoch, John, hi.— A study of the Eskimo Bows in the U. S. Na- 
tional Museum. 
True, Frederick W. iv.— On a Spotted Dolphin, apparently iden- 
tical with the rrodelphinus doris of Gray. 
True, Frederick W. v.— The Florida Muskrat, Neofiher Alleni, True. 
True, Frederick W., and Lucas, F. A. vi.— On the West Indian Seal, 
Monachus tropicalus, Gray. 
Part iv.— Bibliography ok the U. S. National Musecm eor 1834. 
I. Publications of the Museum. 
II. Papers by officers of the MuseunL 

III. Papers by investigator snot officers of the Museum, based ou Mu- 
seum material. 
Part v. 

List of accessions to the Museum in 1834. 



602 CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 

649. Aunual Eeport of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian In- 

stitution to July, 1885. Part i. Forty-ninth Congress, first ses- 
sion. House Mis. Doc. No. 15. 1S8G. 8vo., p}). 1011, 21 cuts. 

CONTEXTS. 

Journal of Proceedings of the Board of Regents. 

Report of the Executive Committee for the first sis mouths of 1385. 

Baird, S. F. Secretary's report of operations. 

The Smithsonian Institution — Record of Scientific Progress, 1884. 

Baird, Spencer F. Introduction. 

WiNLOCK, William C. Astronomy. 

BoEHMER, George II. List of Astronomical Observatories. 

RocKWOOD, Charles G. Vulcauology and Seismology. 

Volcanic eruptions and earthquakes in Iceland within historic times. 

Goodrich, J. King. Geograpliy. 

Barker, George F. Physics. 

Bolton, H. Carrington. Chemistry. 

Dana, Edward S. Mineralogy. 

Marcou, J. B. Bibliography of Invertebrate Palfcontology. 

Gill, Theodore. Zoology. 

Mason, Otis T. Anthropology, 
iscellaneous Papers— Papers relating to Anthropology. 

Sellers, George E. Observations on Stone-chipping. 

Whittlesey, Charles. Copper implements from Bayfield, Wis. 

MacLean, J. P. Ancient Remains in Ohio. 

Jones, Charles C, Jr. A primitive store-housi; of the Creek Indians. 

Shepard, James. Shell heaps and mounds in Florida. 

Williams, Mark. Ancient earth-works in China. 

Schoolcraft, Henry R. Plan for American Ethnological Investiga- 
tion. 

Bolton, H. Carrington. Index to the Literature of Uranium. 

Price-list of the Publications of the Smithsoui.an Institution. 

650. Proceedings of the U. S. National Museum, Vol. viii, 1885. 188G. 

8vo., pp. 737, 15 cuts, 25 plates. 

contents. 

Bean, Tarleton H. Description of a new species of Plectroraus (P. crassi- 

ceps), taken by the U. S. Fish Commission. 
Description of a new species of Aspidophoroides (J. giintlurii) from 

Alaska. 
On the occurrence of Iladropterus aurantiacus (Cope) in the French 

Broad River, North Carolina. 
On the identity of Cottus maculatus, Fischer, with Cottus bubalis, 

Euphrasen. 
On Stathmonotus, a new genus of fishes related to Muncnoides, from 

Florida (with Plate XIII.) {Stalhinonotits he)n2)hiUii, n.g. andu.s.) 
Note on Stoasodon narinari, Euphrasen. 

Description of a new species of Pempheris {rcmplicri'< poeiji) from Cuba. 
Notes on Epinephelus nigritus, Caulolatilus microps and Coryplufna 

hippurus. (See also under Goode and Bean. ) 
Beckham, Charles W. Remarks upon the phimage of Regulns calendula. 
Beyer, Dr. H. G., U. S. Navy. On the influence of atropia on the heart 

(with Plate i.) 



CATALOGUE OF I'UBLICATIONS. 603 

Beyer, Dr. H. G., U. S. Navy— Continued. 

The influence of variations of temperature upon the rate and the work 
of the heart of the slider terrapin { Pseudemii^ riigoaa) (with Plates 
XV, XVI. ) 
(See also under Flint and Beyer.) 
Brock, R. A. Early iron manufacture in Virginia, KJID-ITTO. 
Corrections, List of 

D.\LI., W. II. Notes on some Floridian laud an<l fresh-water shells, with a 
revision of the Auriculacea of the Eastern Uuited States (with Dates 
xvii,xviii) {Sayella, n. .sg.; Ui/drobia? icclhcrbyi, Fapilla Jloridaiia, 
Pedipes clongatiis, Sayella crosscana, Onchidium Jloridanum, nn. ss.) 
On Turbinella ])yrum, Lamarck, and its dentition (with Plate xix). 
Faxox, Walter. A list of the Astacidie iu the U. S. National Museum. 
Fewkes, J. Walter. On a collection of Medusiu made by the U. S. Fish 
Commission steamer Albatross in the Caribbean Sea and Gulf of 
Mexico (with Plate xx). 
Flint, Dr. J. M., and Beyer, Dr. H.G. Circular No. ;}2. Classification of 
the Materia Medica collection of the U.S. National Museum and 
catalogue of si)ecimeD8. 
Gai;max, S. Notes and descriptions taken from Selachians in the U. S. Na- 
tional Museum (Myliobaiis goodei, Dasybaius varidens, Urolophus 
iwbulosus, U.fuscus, Baiafusca, R. senta, E.jordani, nn. ss.). 
The generic name of the Pastinacas or ''Sting-rays." 
Goode, G. Browx, and Beax, Takletox H. On the American lislies in the 
Liunaian collection. 
Description of Leptophidiuui cervinum and L. njarmoratum, new tislies 

from deep water off the Atlantic and Gulf coasts. 
Descriptions of new fishes obtained by the U. S. Fish Commission mainly 
from deep water off the Atlantic and Gulf coasts {Aphorhtia diomr- 
deaua, A. 2)usiUa, Uemirhombus Jimbriatus, Citliariclithys vetiiraltn, 
Eiropus rimosus, Macrurns caribbwus, M. occa, CoryphoRnoidtssulcatus, 
Malacoceplialus occidentalis, Balhygadiis cavernosus, B. macrops, B. 
longlfiUs, nn. ss. ; Neobythltes gillii, Borogadus miles, un. gg. and ss.; 
Bathyonus, nom. gen. uov. ; Bathyonus catena, B. pcctoralis, nn. ss.). 
IIavard, Dr. V., U. S. Army. Report on the flora of Western and Southern 

Texas (with one diagram). 
Hay, O. p. Descript;ion of a new species of Ainblystoma (Amblystoma vope- 
ianuni) from Indiana (with Plate xiv). 
Notes on a collection of fishes from Florida, with description of new or 
little-known species (Ethcostoma davisoni, Zygovectcs aurogitttatus, 
nn. ss). 
Illustrations, List of 

Jordan, David S. Note on the seientilic name of the yellow pc^rch, the 
striped bass, and other American fishes. 
Note on Mr. Garniau's paper on " The American Salmon and Trout." 
Identification of the species of Cyprinidic and Catostomidoi, described 
by Dr. Charles Girard iu the Proceedings of the Academy of Natural 
Sciences of Philadelphia for 1856. 
On the Ethcostoma variatium of Kirtland. 
Note on Epinephelus nigritus. 
A list of the fishes known from the Pacific coastof tropical America, from 

the Tropic of Cancer to Panama. 
Note on some Linmcau names of American fishes. 
Jordan, David S., and Eigenman, Carl II. Notes on skeletons of Ethe- 
ostoniatina). 



604 CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 

Jordan, David S.,aud Meek, Seth E. List of fishes collected in Iowa 
and Missouri in August, 1884, with descrip.tions of three new species 
{Xotropis gilierti, Ammocrijpia clara, Etheostoma iowce, nn. ssO- 
Areview of the Americau species of flying fishes (Exoccetus), {Fodiator, 
n. g. ; ExoGcetus vinciguerrce, nom. nov). 
Knowlton, Frank H. List of plants collected by Mr. Charles L. McKay, 

at Nushagak, Alaska, iu 1831, for the U. S. National Museum. 
Lawuence, George N. List of a few species of birds new to the fauna of 
Guadeloupe, West Indies, with a description of a new speci(;8 of 
Ceryle (Ceryle stictijyennis, u. s.). 
Lucas, Frederic A, Circular No. 33. Notes on the preparation of rough 

skeletons. 
Marcou, John Belknap. A list of the Mesozoic and Cenoznic types in the 

collections of the U.S. National Museum. 
Mason, Otis T. The Chaclacayo trephined skull (with Plate xxii). 
Merrill, George P. On hornblende andesites from the new volcano on 
Bogoslofl^ Island in Bering Sea. 
On deposits of volcanic dust and sand in southwestern Nebraska (with 

8 figures in text). 
Notes on the mineralogy and lithology of the District of Columbia. 
Orcutt, Charles E. (Comments by \V. H. Dal!.) Notes on the moUusks 
of the vicinity of San Diego, Cal., and Todos Santos Bay, Lower 
California. (With Plate xxiv.) (Lamellaria dierjoiiims,!)^,^. s., 
Cajcum orcutti, Dall, n. s. ) 
I'oTTS, Edward. Fresh-water sponges from Mexico. (With one cut.) 

Meyenia pJumosa, var. palmeri, n. v.) 
Rathbun, Richard. Report upon the Echini collected by the U. S. Fish 
Commission steamer Alhatross in the Caribbean Sea and Gulf of 
Mexico, January to May, 1884. 
Report upon the Echini collected by the U. S. Fish Commission steamer 

Alhatross in the Gulf of Mexico from January to March, 1835. 
Notice of a collection of stalked crinoids made by the steamer Alhatross 
in the Gulf of Mexico and Caribbean Sea, 1884 and 188.'). 
RiDGWAY, Robert. On OEstrelata fisheri and CE. defilippiana. 
Icterus cucullatus, Swainson, and its geographical variations. 
Description of a new species of Coutopus from tropical America. {Con- 

topus pihatus, n. s.) 
Note on the Anser leucopareius of Brandt. 
Description of a new warbler from Yucatan. (GranaicUus sallwi hou- 

cardi, n. subs.) 
Description of two new birds from Costa Rica. (Cyanocorax cuculla- 
tus, n. s.jVireolanius pulclicllus verticalis, n. subs.) 
Description of three supposed new Honey Creepers from the Leaser 
Antilles, with a synopsis of the species of the genus Certhiola. 
{C.finschi, C. sundovalli, C. sancii-thomw, un.ss.) 
On Cathartes burrovianus, Cassin, and C. urubitinga, Pelzeln. 
On Onychotes gruberi. 

Remarks on the type specimen of Buteo oxyiiterus, Cassin. 
Description of a new species of boat-billed heron from Central America, 

(Cancroina zeledoni, n. s. ) 
Description of a new hawk from Cozumel. {Ruporni$ gracilis, n. s.) 
On Peucaea mexicana (Lawr.), a sparrow new to the United States. 
A review of the American "Golden Warblers." (Dcndroica hryanti 

castanciceps, n.subs. ) 
Some emended names of North American birds. 



CATALOGUE OF TUBLICATIONS. 605 

RiuGWAY, KoBEUT — Coutiuucd. 

Description of an apparently now species of Droiuococcyx Ironi IWitish 

Guiana. (IJ. tj racilis, n.s.) 
Catalogue of a collection of birds made on iLc island of Cozuniel, Yuca- 
tan, I)y the naturalists of the U. S. Fish Coniniission steamer JZto- 
iross, C.apt. Z. L. Tanner, caniniander. {Ctnlurun rubriveutris 
2)ijgiita}us, n. subs.) 

KiLKY, C. V.,rh. D. On the parasites of the hcssiantly. (With Plate xxiii.) 
{^[eri3Hs {Ilomnporuii) sahapterHH, TctranticJmii producing, nn.ss.) 

Kydkr, Joiix A. On the dev(dopnieut of viviparous o.sseous iishes. (With 
Plates vi-xi.) On certain features of the dcvclepnient of the sal- 
mon.) (With Plate xil.) 

Shufeldt, R. W., U. S. Army. Description of Ilesperoniys truei, a new 
species belonging; to the subfamily Jlnrinai. (With Plate XXI.) 

Smith, Sidney 1. Descn2>tion of a new crustacean allied to Homarus and 
Nephrops. {Eunephrops hairdii, u. g. and n. s.) 
On some genera and species of Penoiidie mostly from receut dredgiiigs 
of the U. S. Fish Commission. (Parapcnwiis, n.g.; /'. iticjalojm, I', 
goodei, HymenopenKus rohustufi, II. mod'-ntus, nn.ss.) 

Stearns, Silas. Notes on the Great Dolphin, Coryphieua hippnrus, Lini)6. 

Stejneger, Leoxhard. Passer saturatu«, a new species of tree sparrow 
from the Liu-Kin Islnnds, Japan. 
Notes on some apparently preoccupied ornithological generic names. 

ToWNSEND, Charles II. An account of receut captures of the California 
sea-elephant, and statistics relating to the present abundance of 
the species. 

True, Frederick W. On a new species of poipoise, Plioca'ua dalli, from 
Alaska. (With Plates ii-v. ) 
Contributions to the history of the Commonder Islands. Xo. .'j. Descrip- 
tion of a new species of Mesoplodcu, M. Stejnegeri, obtained by Dr. 
Leonhard Stejneger, in Bering Island. (With Plate xxv.) 
A note upon the Hyperoodon semijunctus of Cope. 

Turner, Lucien M. List of the birds of Labrador, including Ungava, 
East Main, Moose, and Gulf districts of the Hudson Bay Conijiany, 
together with the island of Anticosti. 

Verrill, a. C. Notice of, recent additions to the marine invertebrata of 
the northeastern coast of America, with descriptions of new genei a 
and species and critical remarks on others. Part v. Annelida, Echi- 
nodermata, Hydroida, Tunicata. {Pohinoe aurantiaca, Lraiiira ro- 
hiista, Amphinoinelepadis, Leodia; bexedicli, yotopJn/Uuin amerieanum, 
Anaitis forinosa, A. plcla, CaytaHa cinciinuila, S[iUi-s xpongiphiln^ 
nn.ss.; OpMofjlyccra gigantea, n.<^.:\\\([ w.i^.; Pohjdora iuhifer, Am- 
mochares artlfcx, Leprcra ahi/Hstcola, Sahclla picfa, Si/napla hi-gchia, 
Ophiacantha fratermi, O. rariiipinn, O. gracilis, .liiipliiuid fragiVm, 
Cladocarpus Jlcxilis, Cnholus tamwri, nn.ss.) 

Zeledox, Jose C. Catalogue of the l)irds of Cos'^a Uiea, indicating tiiose 
species of which the U. S. National Mnsc-nm prs.~esses spcrimeiis 
from that country. 

051. Kepoit of Spencer F. Baird, Secretary of tlu; Smithsoiii.iu Iiisti 
tution for the year ISSO-'StJ. IS'^t^ 8vo., pp. 8.;. 

652. Fottrth Aimual Eeport of the Bureau of Ethnology to the Secre- 
tary of the Smithsonian Institutiou. 1S82-'S;3. By J. W. Pow- 
ell, Director. 188);. iloytil 8vo,, pp. 532. 504 cuts, 83 plates. 



606 CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS 

CONTKNTS. 

PowKLL, J. W. Report of the Director of the Bureau. 

Mallery, Gakrick. Pictograplis of the North Aiiicrlciui Iiidiiins. 

Holmes, W. H. Pottery of the ancient Pueblos. 

lloLMK-s, W. H. Aucieut pottery of the Mississippi Valley. 

Holmes, W. H. Origin and deve]oi)uaent of form and oruaimiil in Ceianiic 

Art. 
Gushing, F. H. A study of Pueblo pottery, as illustrative of Zuni eul- 

ture-growth. 

053. Synopsis ftf the JS^ortli American Syrphidae. By Samuel \V. 
WiLLiSTON. 1880. 8vo., pp. 33.5. 12 i)lates. {Bnllctin U. S. 
j\^ational Museum, No. 31.) 

(j~A. Annual Keport of the Board of Regents of tlie Smitli.sonian Insti- 
tution to July, 1885. Part ii. (Report of the United States 
National Museum for the half year ending June oO, 1885.) 
Forty-eighth Congress, first session. House oi Representatives 
Mis. Doc. No.15. 1880. 8vo., pp. 930, 145 plates, 2 maps. 

COXTEXTS. 

Part I. Eeport of the Assistant Director. 
Part II. Reports of the Curi^ors and Acting Curators. 
I. Dei^artment of Arts and Industries: 

Beyey, H. G. Section of Materia Medica. 
Hitchcock, R. Section of Textile Indu.stries. 
Hitchcock, R. Section of Foods. 
II. (a) Mason, O. T. Department of Ethnology. 
II. (6) Holmes, W. H. Department of American Piehistoiic 
Pottery. 

III. Rau, C. Department of Antiquities. 

IV. True, F. W. Department of Mammals. 

V. RiDGWAY, R. Department of Birds and Birds' Eggs. 
VI. Yarrow, H. C. Department of Reptiles. 

VII. Bean, T. H. Department of Fishes. 
viii. True, F. W. Department of Comparative Anatomy. 
IX. Dall, W. H. Department of Mollusks. 
X. Riley, C. V. Department of Insects. 
XI. Rathbun, R. Department of Marine Inverlel)rates. 
XII. («) Walcott, C. D. Department of Invertebrate Fossils 

(Paleozoic), 
xii. (h) White, C. A. Department of Invertebrate Fossils 
{Meso-Cetiozoic). 
xiii. Ward, L. F. Department of Plants. 
XIV. Clarke, F. W. Department of ^linerals. 
XV. Merrill, G. P. Department of Lithology and Physical 

Geology. 
XVI. Dewey, F. P. Department of Metallurgy and Economic 
Geology. 
Part III. Bibliography of the U. S. National Museuiu for the half year 

. .June 30, ItSr,. 
Part IV. Annotated list ot accessions to the U. S. National .Museum dur- 
ing the half year endiRg June 'Ml, IH.-*."). 
Part V. Donaldson, T.— The George CatKn Indian Gallery in the U. S. 
National Museum, with memoir and statistics. 



CLASSIFIED LIST OF SEPARATE IMU'.LKWTIONS OF THE 
SMITHSONIAN INSIiTUTiON. 



SUBJECTS. 



L Aiiiitomy, Pbysioloj^y, Mediciuc, and Surgery. 
II. Antliropolojiy. (iS'ce also Pliilolo^iiy.) 

III. Arclia'ology. {iSee Anthropology.) 

IV. Arcliitc'(;turc. 
V. Astronomy. 

VI. Bibliography. 
VII. E)iograi)liy. 

VIII. Biology. {See also Anatomy, Microscopy, Pahcontology, Bot- 
any, and Zoology.) 
IX. Botany. 

X. Chemistiy, and Technology. 
XI. ]*]U'ctricity and Magnetism. 
XII. Ethnology. {Sec Anthropology and Philology.) 

XIII. Oeograi)h-y. 

XIV. Geology. {See also Paheontology.) 

XV. Hydrography. {See Terrestrial Physics.) 
XVL Magnetism. {See Electricity.) 
XVIL Matheaiatics. 
XVIII. ^lediciue. {See Anatomy, etc.) 
XIX. Meteorology. 
XX. Microscopy. 
XXI. Mineralogy. 
XXIL Miscellaneous. 

XXIII. Natural History. (<S'ce Anatomy, Biology, Botany, Microscopy, 

Paheontology, and Zoology.) 

XXIV. Paheontology^ 
XXV. Philology. 

XXVL Physical Geography. 
XXVII. Physics. {See also Terrestrial Physics.) 
XXVIIL Physiology. (.SVc Anatomy, etc.) 
XXIX. Seismology. (.SVc Terrestrial Physics.) 
XXX. Surgery. (*.Src Anatomy, et(;.) 

XXXI. Technology. {See ('lu'iiiistry, Electricity, Geology, Meteor- 
ology, and i'liysics.) 

XXXII. Terrestrial Physics. 

607 



608 CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 

XXXIII. Yiilcauology. {See Terrestrial Physics.) 

XXXIV. Zoology: 

General. 
Special : 

Aunelids. 

Birds. 

Fishes. 

Insects. 

Mammals. 

Mollusks. 

Eadiates. 

Eeptiles and Batrachians. 

I.— ANATOMY, PHYSIOLOGY, MEDICINE, AND SURGERY. 

No. in 
Catalogue. 

Adams. Subcutaneous surgery (Toner Lecture No. 6) 302 

Baikd. Request for specimens of drugs 541 

Beyer. Catalogue of materia-medica collectioD, revised 622 

Brown Sequard. Dual character of the brain (Toner Lecture No. 2) 291 

Da Costa. The heart (Toner Lecture, No. 3) 279 

Dean. Medulla oblongata (s. c. ) 173 

Flint. Catalogue of materia-medica collection 539 

Flint. Classification of drugs and medicines 451 

Flint. Classification of materia-medica collection 450 

Flint. Memoranda for collection of drugs 452 

Flint. Report on pharmacopceias of all nations : 560 

Holmgren. Color-blindness 399 

Jones. Chemical and physiological investigations (s. c.) 82 

Keen. Continued fevers. (Toner Lecture No. 5) 300 

Lautenbach. Effect of irritation of a polarized nerve 411 

Leidy. Flora and fauna within living animals (s. c.) - 44 

Mills. Mental overwork (Toner lecture) 594 

Mitchell and Morehouse. Chelonia (s. c.) 159 

Mitchell and Reichert. Venoms of poisonous serpents (s. c.) 647 

Mitchell. Venom of rattlesnake (s. c.) 135 

Shakespeare. Reparatory inflammation (Toner Lecture No. 7) 321 

Waring. Sanitary drainage of Washington (Toner Lecture No. 8) 349 

Weismann. Change of Mexican axolotl 401 

Wood. Morbid and normal physiology of fever (s. c.) 357 

Wood. Study of fever (Toner Lecture No. 4) 282 

Woodward. Cancerous tumors (Toner Lecture No. 1) 266 

Wyman. Rana pipiens (s. c.) 45 

II.— ANTHROPOLOGY. (See also Philology.) 

Abbott. Stone age in New Jersey 394 

Anthropological Society of Washington, Transactions, Vol. 1 501 

" " " " " Abstracts, 1879-'80 .... 502 

" " " " « Vol.11. 544 

" <' '< '« « Vol. Ill 630 

Archicology, circular on 205-316 

B^GERT. Aboriginal inhabitants of California...,., .-»,,. , 361 



CATALOGUE OF TUULICATIONS. 609 

No. in 
Cutalo^iio. 

BoEiiMER. Index to arcliajological articles in Sinitlisoniau piiblicatiou.s 421 

BransfoRD. Antiquities of Costa Kica 619 

BraxsforI). Areha'ological rcscarelieK in Nicaragua (s. c. ) 383 

Cope. West India bone cave (s. c.) 489 

Dall. Prehistoric man, Alcntiaii Islands (s.c.) 318 

Desor. Palaflttesof the lake ol' Neucliatel 360 

GiRliS. Etlinoiogical and philological instructions 160 

GiBBS. Tiuneb, or Cbcpewyan Indians 365 

GiLLAiAX. Characteristics of ancient man in JMiehigan 393 

GiLLMAX. Mound-builders and phitycnemism 393 

Gore. Tuckahoe, or Indian bread 482 

Habel. Sculptures in Guatemala (s. c.) 269 

Haldeman. Polychrome bead from Florida 404 

Hardisty. Loncheux Indians 365 

Havex. American archaeology (s. c.) 71 

HowiTT. Australian group relations 596 

Indians, photographic portraits of, list of 21G 

JoxES. Aboriginal structures in Georgia 400 

JoxES. Antiquities of Tennessee (s. c. ) 259 

JoxES. Kutchin Indians 365 

Kexgla. Areha'ological map of the District of Columbia. 537 

KxiGHT. Savage weapons 415 

Lapham. Antiquities of Wisconsin (s. c.) 70 

Masox. Latimer antiquities from Porto Rico 397 

Masox. Miscellaneous anthropological papers for 1879 420 

Masox. " " " " IH.iO 432 

Masox. " " " " Ib'Hl 431 

Masox. " " " " 1S82 535 

Masox. " " " " 18'?:3 580 

Masox. " " " "1881 G20 

Masox. " " '' " 1885 645 

Masox. Progress in anthropology.... 432 

Masox. Progress in anthropology for 1881 488 

Masox. '• " " "1882 1 534 

Masox. " " " "1883 583 

MAsox. " " " "1884 618 

Masox. " " " "188.'). 640 

Masox. The Guesde collection of antiquities 621 

Mayer. Mexican archieology (s. c. ) 86 

Morgax. Circular relative to relationship 138 

Morgan. Systems of consanguinity (s. c.) 218 

NiBLACK. Instructions for taking paper molds of inscriptions 590 

PiCKEKiXG. Gliddon nnunmy case (s. c.) 203 

Powell. First annual report of Bureau of Ethnology 476 

Powell. Second annual report of Bureau of Ethnology 542 

Powell. Third annual report of Bureau of Ethnology 631 

Powell. Fourth annual report of Bureau of Ethnology 652 

Rau. Ancient aboriginal trade in North America 385 

Rau. Archaeological collection in Smithsonian Institution (s. c.) 287 

Rau. Articles on anthropological subjects (from Reports S. I.) 440 

Rau. Artificial shell deposits in New Jersey 362 

Rau. Circular relative to aboriginal antiquities . ; 572 

Rau. Deposit of agricultural flint iujplements 370 

Rau. Drilling in stone without metal 372 

H. Mis. 170 39 



GIO CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 

No. in 
Catalogue. 

Rau. Gold ornanieut in iiioiiinl in Florida 403 

Kau. liuliau pottiM-y 368 

Kau. North American stone implements 332 

Kau. Paleu(iuo tablet (s. c.) 331 

Kau. Prehistoric fishing in Euroi>e and America 509 

Kau. Stock-in-trade of aboriginal lapidary 402 

KoMEiJ. Prehistoric antiquities of Hungary (translated by Kau) 392 

Koss. Eastern Tinueb Indians 365 

SiMi'SOX. Coronado's march in search of Cibola 561 

Squiek and Davis. Ancient monument of Mississippi Valley (s. c.) 1 

Squieu and Davis. Aboriginal monuments of New York (s. c.) 15 

Staxlky. Catalogue of Indian portraits 53 

SwAX. Indians of Cape Flattery (s. c ) ,. 220 

Swan. Haidab Indians (s. c.) 267 

Thomas. Directions for mound explorations 601 

Whittlesey. Ancieut mining at Lake Superior (s. o.) 155 

Whittlesey. Ancient works in Ohio(s. c). 37 

III.— ARCILEOLOGY. {Sec Anthropology.) 
IV. -ARCHITECTUKE. 

Building-stones, circular relative to 453 

Owen. Hints on public architecture P 

Keport of National Museum bnilding commission and architects for 1679 409 

" " " " *' " " " " 18b0 434 

<' << " " " " «' " " 1881 491 

v.— ASTRONOMY. 

Abbe. Observatories of Dorpat and Poulkova 369 

Alexandeu. Harmonies of the solar system (s. C) 280 

Astronomical telegram circular 263 

DoWNES. Occultatious 1848 (s. c.) 8 

DowNES. " 1849(s. c.) 9 

DowNES. " 1850(s. c.) 10 

DOWNES. " 1851 (s. c.) 11 

DowNES. " 1852(8. c.) 29 

DowNES. " 1853(s. c.) 54 

DjJAPEit. Silvered-glass telescope (s. c.) 180 

Eclipse, annular, 1834 66 

GiLLiss. S<dar eclipse, Peru (s. c.) 100 

Gould. History of Neptune 18 

Gould. Transatlantic longitude (s. c) 223 

Hill. Map solar eclipse 101 

IIoLDEX and BoEHMEK. Reports of observatories for 1880 438 

HOLDEN and Hastixgs. Synopsis of Sir William Herschel's writings 426 

Hold EX. Index catalogue of Nebuhe 311 

Holdex. Report on progress in astronomy for 1379 and 1880 427 

IIOIJOEN. " " " " " " 1881 483 

HoLDEN. " " " " " " 1882 525 

Holden. " '^ " " " " 1883 574 

HoLDEN. " " " " " " 1884 609 

Holden. Reports of observatories for 1879 410 

Kane. Astrouomical observations arctic seas (s. c. ) 129, 198 



CATALOGUE UF TUULICATIONS 611 

X... in 
Cnlalojiiio. 

Newcumu. lutcgrtils of plauetiiry motion (.s. c.) 281 

Nkwcomb. Orbit of Noptiiuo (s. c.) 199 

Nkwcomh. Orbit of UnimiH (s. c.) 262 

]Ujnki.k. Planotary tables (s. c.) 79 

KuNKLE. Planetary tables, supplement 94 

Star-map, eircumj)olar 35O 

Star-map, of (lie visible heavens 359 

Stockwkll. Orbits of planets (s. c.) 232 

Walkicu. Itescarehes Neptune (s. c.) 3 

Walker. Epheineris Neptune, 1848 (s. c.) 4 

Wai.kek. " 1795-1849 (s. c.) 5 

Walkeu. " 1850 (s. c.) 6 

Walker. " . 1851 (s. c.) 7 

Walkeu. " 1852 (s. c.) 24 

WiNLOCK. Report on proijress in astronomy for 1885 641 

VI.- BIBLIOGRAPHY. 

BiNNEY. Biblionjrapby of eoneliology, part 1 142 

BiNNEY. " " " II 274 

BOLTOX. CatalofTue of scientific periodicals 514 

Boi/rox. Catalogue to the literature of Uranium G23 

Exchanges, list of Smithsonian, part I 73 

Exchanges, " " "II q5 

Exchanges, " " to 1858 II7 

Gill. Bibliography of fishes of Pacific coast 4G3 

Girard. Bibliography of natural history, 1851 48 

GoODE. Bibliography of Spencer F. Baird 503 

IIOLDEN and Hastings. Synopsis of Sir William Ilerschel's writings 426 

HoLDEX. Index catalogue of books and memoirs on nebula) 311 

Institutions in the United States receiving publications of the Smithsonian In- 
stitution 512 

Institutions, principal literary and scientific, in United States 335 

Jewett. Catalogue system -.r--- 47 

Jewett. Public libraries 25 

Marcou. Palteontological bibliographies 625 

Publications, Smithsonian Institution, list of (successive issues.) 74,203, 22o, 

245, 278, 290, 301, 344, 437, 470, G27 

Periodicals, received by the Institution, list of Q, 43G 

Publications of learned societies in library Smithsonian Institution 73, G5, 179 

RiiEES. Catalogue and index of Smithsonian publications 479 

RUEES. Public libraries 116,238 

ScUDDER. Bibliograiihy of Isaac Lea 5 70 

Watson. Bibliography of North American botany 258 

VII.— BIOGRAPHY. 

GooDE. Bibliography of Spencer F. Baird 508 

Gray. Memoir of Joseph Henry .' 407 

Henry. Eulogy on Alexander Dallas Bache 379 

Henry, Memorial of (by numerous contributors) 356 

HoLDKN and Hastings. Scientific writings of Sir William Herschel 426 

Mayer. Henry as a discoverer 417 

Porter, and others. Addresses and ceremonies, Henry statue 585 

Rau. Memoir of Von Martius 251 



612 CATALOGUE OF rUBLICATIONS. 

No. in 
Catalogue. 

KnEES. Life and be<iuest of James Sraitlison 330 

ScuDDER. Bibliography of Isaac Lea 570 

Taylor. Memoir of and scientific work of Joseph Henry 339 

Welling. Life and character of Joseph Henry 338 

VIII. — BIOLOGY. (^e<? also Anatomy, Microscopy, Palaeontology, Botany, 

and Zoology.) 

BaIkd. Circular for shipping fresh fish and other animals 384 

Circular for collecting birds 168 

Circular for collecting craw-fish 319 

Circular for collecting grasshoppers 163 

Circular for collecting shells 176, 363 

Circular for observations in Russian America 207 

Circular to officers of the Hudson Bay Company '. 137 

Circular to entomologists 178 

COPK. Zoology of Texas 412 

Directions for collecting and preserving specimens 34 

Directions for collecting and preserving specimens of nests and eggs 139 

Edwards. Directions for collecting diatomacea 366 

Gill. Recent progress in zoology 431 

GiKARD. Bibliography of natural history 48 

GOODE. Animal resources and fisheries exhibit, 187G ^ .. 326 

GOODE. Classification of animal resources 297 

Kidder and others. Natural history of Kerguelcn Island 294 

KuMLiEN. Natural history of xirctic America 342 

Leidy. Flora and fauna within animals (s. c. ) 44 

Museum miscellanea, numbers, labels, etc 164 

Packard. Directions for collecting insects 261 

Proceedings of the U. S. National Museum 1, 332 ; II, 333 ; III, 425 : IV, 467; 

V, 518; VI, 548; VII, 607 ; VIII, 650 

Periodical phenomena register 65, 148 

ScuDDER. List of genera of animals 470 

Stimpsox. Marine invertebrata. Grand Manan (s. c.) 50 

Streets. Natural history of Hawaiian, Fanning Islands, etc '.. 303 

Weismann. Change of Mexican axolotl 401 

IX.— BOTANY. 

Cooper. Forests and trees of North America 351 

Eggers. Flora of St. Croix , 313 

Farlow. Report on progress in botany for 1879 and 1880 *. 430 

Farlow. Report on progress in botany for ISSl 486 

" 1882 • 532 

" " " " " " " 1883 581 

Gray. Plantc-B Wrightiame, I (s. c.) 22 

Gray. " " II(s.c.) 42 

Gray. Synoptical Flora of North America 591 

Harvey. North American marine algte, I (s. c. ) 32 

Harvey. " " " " II(s.c.) 43 

Harvey. " " " III(s.c.) 95 

Harvey. " " " complete (s. c.) 96 

Lefroy. Botany of Bermuda 564 

Leidy. Flora within animals (s. c.) 44 

Periodical phenomena, register of 65, 148 



CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 613 

No. in 
Catalo'juo. 

RoTHKOCK. Flora of Alaska 367 

ToRREY. Batis maritima (s. c.) 60 

Torre V. Darliugtonia Californica (s. c.) 61 

Harvey. Plantaj Fr6iii(>iitianie (s. c.) 46 

Ward. Check list of flora of Washington 461 

Ward. Directions for collecting and preserving plants 460 

Ward. Gnicle to the flora of Washington 444 

Watson. Index to North America botany 258 

Wood. Fresh-water alga>. (s. c.) 241 

X.— CHEMISTRY and TECHNOLOGY. 

I'aip.D. C'ircnlnr in rei'erence to building stones 453 

Bakkki:. 1,'i'[k>i-I on progress in eheniistrv, 1879 and 1S80 _. . 429 

Bahkki;. Kci>()it on progress in chemist ry for li:<yi 485 

Becki:i{. Atomic weight determinations 358 

Boltox. Report on progress in chemistry for \.H>^'2 530 

Boltox. " " " " " " 1883 579 

Bolton. " " " " " " 1884 614 

Boltox. " " " " " " 1885 633 

Booth and JIorfit. Chemical arts 27 

Brown. AYhale fishery and its ap])liances 555 

Clarke. Expansion tables 289 

Clarke. Kecalculation of atomic weights 441 

Clarke. Specific gravity tables 255 

Clarke. " " " 1st supnU ment 288 

Clarke. Specific heat tables 276 

Flint. Rejiort on pharmacopteias of all nations 560 

GiBBS and Genth. Ammonia cobalt bases (s. c. ) 88 

Hare. Explosiveness of niter (s. c.) 17 

Henry. Investigation of illnmiuating materials 389 

Hitchcock. Plan of textile exhibit 597 

Hunt. Chemistry of the earth 376 

Jones. Chemical and physiological investigations (s. c.) 82 

Merrill. Plan of building-stone exhibit 598 

MoRix. Warming and ventilating occupied buildings 439 

Newton. Metric system of weights and measures 371 

Niblack. Instructions for taking paper molds of inscriptions, etc 590 

Katiibun. Catalogue of collection illustrating I'esearch in sea and fi-esh \v;it<r. 557 

Smithsox. Scientific writings 327 

Taylor. Henry and the telegraph 405 

Wetheihll. Ozone and antoz<<ue 355 

XL— ELECTRICITY and MAGNETISM. 

Baciie. Magnetic discussion, part I (s. c.) 113 

Baciie. " " partll(s. c.) 121 

Bache, " " part III (s. C.) 132 

Bache. " " parts IV to VI (s.c.) 162 

Bache. " " parts VII to IX (s. c.) 175 

Bache. " " parts X to XII (s. c.) 186 

Bache. " " parts I to XII (s. c.) 195 

Baciie. Magnetic survey of Pennsylvania (s. c.) 166 

Gould. Transatlantic longitude by electro-fnagnetic signals (s. c.) 223 

Harkness. Magnetic observations on the iron-clad Monadnock (s. c.) 239 



614 CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 

No. in 

Catalogue. 

Hayes. Arctic observatious (s. c. ) 196 

Henry. Communication to Regents on tlio electro-magnetic telegraph 115 

Kane. Arctic observatious (s. c.) 97, 198 

Locke. Observations on terrestrial magnetism (s. c.) 35 

Secchi. Researches on electrical rheometry (s. c.) 36 

SoNNTAG. Terrestrial magnetism, Mexico (s. c.) 114 

Tayloh. Henry and the telegraph 405 

XII.— ETHNOLOGY. {See Anthropology and Philology. 

XIII. -GEOGRAPHY. 

Goopnicir. R(?])ort of progress in geography for 188.5 632 

GuEKN. R(^i>ort of i)rogress iu geography for 1831 and 18S"2 527 

Green " " " " •' " 1883 576 

Green. " " " " " " 1884 611 

XIV.— GEOLOGY. (See also Paleontology.) 

Cooper. Physical geography of North America 351 

Haaves. Recent progress in geogra^jhy 428 

HiLGARD. Geology of lower Louisiana (s.c.) 248 

Hitchcock. Surface geology (s. c.) 90 

Hunt. Report of progressin geology for 1881 anil 18;i2 526 

Hunt. " " " " " "138:? 575 

Mason. Luray Cavern in Virginia 433 

Merrill. Phm of building-stone exhibits 598 

PUMPELLY. Geology of China, Mongolia, and Japan (s.c.) 202 

Rice. Geology of Bermuda 563 

Whittlesey. Fluctuations of lakes (s. c.) 119 

Whittlesey. Glacial drift (s. c.) 197 

XV.— HYDROGRAPHY. (See Tep.restrial Physics.) 

XVI.— MAGNETISM, (See Electricity.) 

XVII.— MATHEMATICS. 

Alvohi). Titugencies of circles (s. c.) 80 

Fkrri";l. Converging series (s. c.) 233 

Newcomij. (Jeueral integrals of i)lanetary motion (s.c.) 281 

XVIII.— MEDICINE. (5ee Anatomy, etc.) 

XIX.— METEOROLOGY. 

Ar.BE. Meteorological memoirs 398 

Ahbe. Rei)ort on progress iu meteorology for 187J)-1881 4C4 

Ai'.RE. " " " " " " ]88:i 528 

Ahiie. " " " " " " 18s:i 577 

A13BE. " " " " " '• 18^-4 612 

Bache. Girard College observations (s. c.).-..113, 121, 132, 162, 175. 106, 195 

Caswell. Observations, Providence, R.I., 1831-18()0 (s. c.) 103 

Caswell. Observations, Providence, R. I., 1831-187G (s. c. ) 443 

Chappelsmith. Tornado (s. c.) 59 

Cleaveland. Meteorological observations, Brnuswick, Me (s.c.) 204 

Clouds, nomenclature of 34 7 

Coffin. Meteoric fire-ball (s. c.) 221 

Coffin. Psychrometrical tables 87 



CATALOGUE OP PUBLIC ATIONri. Glo 

Xo. in 
Caiiilojiue. 

Coffin. Wiuds, northern homi.spbere (s. c.) 52 

Coffin. Winds of the globe (s. c.) 268 

COLDING. The natnro of air cnrrents 398 

COLDING. Tlie whirlwind of St. Thonnxs in 1871 398 

COOPEU, J. G. Forests and trees of North America 351 

Directions for meteorolo<;ical observations 19. 143 

Ferrel. Reply to strictnrcs of .J. Hanii 398 

Force. Record of anroras (s. c.) S4 

GUYOT. Meteorological directions 19. 148 

GuYOT. Meteorological and physical tables 31, 153, 538 

Hann. Diminution of vapor with altitude 398 

Hanx. Influence of rain on the barometer 398 

Hanx. Atmospheric pressure and rain-fall 398 

Hann. Laws of temperature in ascending currents 398 

Hann. Relation between pressure and wind 398 

Hayes. Arctic observations (s. c.) 

Henry. Circular, altitudes 

Henry. " directions for constructing lightning rods 237 

Henry. " thunder-storms 235 

Henry. " tornadoes -^^^ 

Hildretii and Wood. Observations, Marietta, Ohio (s. c.) 120 

IIoEK. Letter on meteoric shower 217 

Kane. Meteorological arctic observations (s. c.) • 104, 198 

Loud. Discussion of Snell's barometric observations 435 

LooMis. Aurora borealis ^°* 

LooMis. Storms in 1836 (s. c.) ^27 

Map of the stars near the north pole for aurora 350 

McClintock. Arctic observations (s. c.) 

McPaulin. Climate of New Mexico 

Meecii. Intensity sun's heat (s. o. ) 

M«f'«orological observations, If 



196 
236 



146 

396 

83 

93 



2J7 
81 



Meteorological results, 1854-1859, vol. 1 157 

Meteorological results, 1854-1859, vol 2 182 

Meteorological stations and observers, 1849-18()8 373 

Meteors, November 

Olmstead. Aurora (s.c.) 

Periodical phenomena, registry of 65, 148 

Pesun. Relation between barometric pressure and air currents 393 

Planisphere of the visible heavens, for observation of luelcors 359 

Rain charts for summer, winter, and year 37-1. 

Reye. Rain-fall and barometric minima 39B 

SCHOTT. Base chart of the United States ^^^ 

SCHOTT. Tables of rain and snow in the United States (s. c.) 222, 353 

SciiOTT. Tables of temperature (s. c.) - 

Smith. Observations, Washington, Ark. (s. c. ) 

Soiincke. Variation of temperature in ascending currents of moist air...^.. 398 

Temperature chart of the United States for year 38^- 388 

Temperature charts of the United States for summer, winter, and year 387 

XX.— MICROSCOPY. 

Bailey. Microscopic observations, Southern States (s.c.) ^ 

Bailey. New microscopic organisms (s. c.) 

Bailey. Soundings, coast survey (s. C.) 



616 CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 

No. in 
Catalogue. 

Deax. Medulla oblongata (s. c. ) 173 

Edwards. Directions for collecting niicioscopic organisujs 366 

Leidy. Flora and fauna withiu living animals (s. c.) 44 

Mitchell AND Reichert. Venoms of poisonous 8erx)ents 647 

Woodward. Cancerous tumors 266 

XXL— MINERALOGY. 

Babinet. Diamond and precious stones 377 

Bolton. Index to the literature of Uranium 628 

Bkezina. CJrystallography and crystallopliysics 386 

Clarke. Plan of gem and previous stone exhibit 599 

Dana. Report on progress in mineralogy for 1882 531 

Dana. " " " " " " 1883 580 

Dana. " " " " " " 1884 615 

Dana. " " " " " " 1885 639 

Dewey. Plan of mineral exhibit 604 

Egleston. Catalogue of minerals 156 

Hawes. Recent progress in mineralogj'^ 428 

XXIL— MISCELLANEOUS. 

Eelative to the tSmithso7iian InsHluHo)!. 

Act of Congress to establish the Smithsonian Institution 0,391 

Baird. Museum miscellanea, numbers, labels, etc . 164 

BOEHMER. Additions to list of foreign correspondents uf Sniitlisdiiiaii Institu- 
tion 490 

BOEHMER. History of Smithsonian exchanges 477 

BOEiiMER. List of foreign correspondents of Smithsonian lustitntioii 469,635 

Business arrangements of Smithsonian Institution 325 

Circular relative to exchanges 324 

Committee on organization, report of B, Ii 

Correspondence, Squier and Davis K 

Circular relative to exchanges 324 

Circular relative to Smitlisonian Institution 290 

Dallas. Address, laying corner-stone of Smithsonian Institution D 

Digest of act of Congress relative to Smithsonian Institution C 

Directory of ofiicers, collaborators, and employds 466 

Establishment and officers of Smithsonian Institution and Museum 449 

Henry. Circular relative to heights 236 

Henry. Exposition, Smithsou's bequest E 

History of Smithsonian Institution 328 

Institutions, list of domestic 67,69,238,512 

Institutions, list of foreign 64, 154, 188, 209, 225, 243, 309, 469, 490, 635 

Mason. Report on Luray Cavern in Virginia in 1880 433 

Officers and Regents and act of organization N 

Pkabody. Scientific education of mechanics 380 

Porter and others. Addresses and ceremonies, Henry statue 585 

Proceedings, Regents, 1846 A 

Programme of organization J 

Regulations of Smithsonian Institution 260 

Rhees. Catalogue and index of Smithsonian publications, 184(i-18.;2 478 

Rhees. Documents relative to history of Smithsonian Institution 328 

RnEES. Journals of the Board of Regents, statistics, etc 329 

RllEES. List of institutions, libraries, colleges, etc 238 

(A* Proceedings of societies; aho, Reports of Suiithsouiau Institution.) 



CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 617 

Miscellaneous— /^c?«iii;e io ihe Xailonal Museum. 

No. in 
Catalogue. 

BAira). Report of Smithsoniau exhibit at conteimial, 1876 307 

Cireular.s of the United States National Museum, Nos. 1 to 35 445,446, 

447, 448, 449, 450, 451, 452, 453, 454, 455, 456, 457, 
458, 459, 472, 473, 474, 539, 541, 572, 589, 590, 597, 
598, 599, 600, 601, 602, 603, 604, 622, 626, 637, 646 

GooDE. Animal lesourees antl lislieries 326 

Hudson's Bay circular 137 

XXIir.— NATURAL HISTORY. {See Anatomy. Biology, Botany, Mickuscopy, 
Pal.kontology, and Zoology.) 

XXIV.— PALJSONTOLOGY. 

CoNJiAi). Check list of eocene fossils 200 

Cope. West India bone cave 489 

GiBBES. Mosasaurus (s. c. ) 14 

Leidy. Ancient fauna, Nebraska (s. c.) 53 

Leidy. Cretaceous reptiles (s. c. ) 192 

Leidy. Extinct sloths (s. c.) 72 

Leidy. Fossil ox (s. c.) 41 

Meek. Check list of cretaceous and Jurassic fossils 177 

Meek. Check list of rniocene fossils 133 

Meek and Hayden. Palaeontology of Nebraska 172 

MAncou. Paheoutological bibliographies G25 

Marcou. Record of North American Palajoutology for 18S4 610 

Marcou. Record of North American Palaeontology for 188."i - 642 

XXV.— PHILOLOGY. 

BowEN. Yoruba grammar and dictionary (s. c ) 93 

Dorsey. Comparative phonology of four Sioux languages 605 

GiBBS. Chinook jargon 161 

GiBBS. Comparative Vocabulary 170 

GiBBs. Ethnological and philological instructions 160 

Lieber. Vocal sounds of Laura Bridgman (s. c.) 12 

Mitchell and Turner. Vocabulary of jargon 68 

Morgan. Systems of consanguinity (s. C. ) 218 

RiGGS. Dakota grammar and dictionary (s. C. ) 40 

RtEHRiG. Language of the Dakota and Sioux Indians 378 

Whitney. Lectures on Linguistics 352 

{Sec also Reports of Bureau of Ethnology.) 

XXVI.— PHYSICAL GEOGRAPHY. 

Cooper. Physical geograpliy of North America 351 

Ellet. Physical geography of the Mississippi Valley (s. c. ) 13 

Hayes. Observations in the Arctic seas (s. c. ) 196 

Henry. Circular relative to heights 236 

Mason. Lnray Cavern in Virginia 433 

XXVII.— PHYSICS. {Sec also Terrestrial Physics.) 

Barker. Report of progress in pliysics for 1879 and 1830 429 

Barker. Report of progress in i^hysics in 1881 485 

Barker. •' " " " " " 1882 529 



618 CATALOGUE «)P PUBLICATIONS. 

No. in 
Catalogue. 

Barkek. K(3port of progress in jtbysics in 18S3 578 

Barker. " " " " " " 1884 613 

Barker. " " " " " " 1B85 638 

Barnard. Internal structure of the earth (s. c.) 310 

Barnard. Problems of rotary motion (s. c. ) 240 

Brezina. Crystallography and crystallopbysics 386 

Bulletin of the Philosophical Society of Washington, Vol. I, II, III 497 

" " " " " " Vol. IV 498 

<' " " " " " Vol. V 503 

" " " " " " Vol. VI 543 

" " " " " " Vol. VII 592 

" " " " " Vol. VIII 636 

Coffin. Winds of the globe (s. c.) 52.268 

Davis. Law of deposit of flood-tide (s. c.) 33 

Delaunay. Essay on velocity of light 354 

Draper. Telescope in photography (s. c.) 180 

Gould. Transatlantic longitude (s. c.) 223 

Gtjyot. Physical and meteorological tables 31, 153, 538 

Hayes. Physical observations, Arctic seas (s. c.) 196 

Henry. Electro-magnetic telegraph 115 

Henry. Investigation of illuminating materials 389 

Henry. Lightning rods 237 

Henry. Researches on sound •- - - 406 

IIiLGARD. Tides and tidal action 390 

Holmgren. Color-blindness 399 

Hunt. Chemistry of the earth 376 

Kane. Physical observations, Arctic seas (s. c.) 198 

Loojus. Aurora borealis 584 

Meech. Heat and light of the sun (s. c.) 83 

Newton. Metric weights and measures 371 

SCHOTT. Base chart of the United States 414 

Secciii. Electrical rheometry (s. c. ) 36 

Taylor. Henry and the telegraph 405 

Taylor. Kinetic theories of gravitation 395 

Taylor. Nature and origin of force 375 

Taylor. Refraction of sound 595 

WiUTTLESEY. Fluctuations, level of lakes (s. c. ) 119 

XXVIII.— PHYSIOLOGY. (5ce Anatomy, etc.) 

XXIX.— SEISMOLOGY. (.Sec Terrestrial Physics.) 

XXX.— SURGERY. (See Anatomy, etc.) 

XXXL— TECHNOLOGY. {See Chemistry, Electricity, Geology, Meteorology, 

AND Physics.) 

XXXII.— TERRESTRIAL PHYSICS. 

Bache. Discussion of magnetic observations (s. c.) I, 113 ; II, 121 ; III, 132 ; 

IV-VI, 162 ; VII-IX, 175 ; X-XII, 186 ; I-XII, 195 

Bache. Magnetic survey of Pennsylvania (s. c. ) 166 

Barnard. Problems of rotary motion, and precession of equinoxes (s. c.) ... 240 

BoEiiMEi:. Translation, Volcanic eruptions and earthquakes in Iceland 644 

CoEFiN. Winds of the globe (s. c. ) '. 268 

Coffin. Winds of the northern hemisphere (s. c.) 52 



CATALOGUE UF PUBLICATIONS. 619 

Xo.ln 
Catalogue. 

Davis. Dyuamical action, etc., of the llooil tiuc (s. c.) 33 

FOKCE. Record of auroral plieiiouicna (s. c.) 84 

Hayes. Physical observations in Arctic seas (s. c.) 196 

HEXliY. Circular relative to altitudes 236 

HlLGARD. Tides and tiilal action in harbors 390 

Hunt. Chemistry of the earth 376 

Kane. Magnetical observations in the Arctic seas (s. c.) 97 

Kane. Physical observations in the Arctic seas (s. c.) 198 

Kane. Tidal observations in the Arctic seas (s. c.) 130 

Locke. Observations on terrestrial uiajji;netisni in the United Slates (s. c.) ... 35 

MtJLLEK. Observations on terrestrial magnetism in Mexico (s.c.) 114 

Olmstead. Secular period of the aurora (s. e.) 81 

ROCKWOOD. Report on progress in vulcauology and seismology for ls."<l 616 

RocicwooD. " " " " " " " " If'^'* 634 

Sonxtag. Observations on terrestrial magnetism in Mexico (s. o.) 114 

Whittlesey. Fluctuations of level in the Nortli American lakes (s. c.) 119 

XXXIIL— VULCANOLOGY. {See Tehrestiual Physics.) 

XXXIV. -ZOOLOGY. 

Zoology — General. 

(Sec Bulletins, National Museum, 1 to :'.0. Proceedings, National Museum, 
I — VIII. Proceedings of societies.) 

Baikd. Directions for collecting specimens of natural history 34 

Bah; I). Concerning the lending of type specimens 646 

Cote. Zoological position of Texas 412 

Gill. Report on progress in zoology for 1871) and 1880 431 

Gill. " " '" " " " 1881 487 

Gill. " " " " " " 1882 533 

Gill. " " " " " " 188;! 582 

Gill. " " " " " " 1884 617 

Gill. " " " " " " 188.') 643 

GOOOE. Catalogue and synopsis, London Fisheries Exhibition 551 

GOODE. Catalogue of c(dlectiou, animal resources, Philadelphia Exhibition,. 326 

GoODE (and others). Catalogue of Loudon Fisheries Exhibition 511 

GooDE. Classitication of aninuil resources of the United States 297 

GooDE (and others). Catalogue of collection, Berlin Fisheries Exhibition 413 

Jones (and others). Natural history of the Beruuidas 495 

KiLDER (ami others). Natural history of Kerguelen Islands 294 

KuMLiEN. Natural history of Arctic America 342 

ScunoEU. Nomenclator Zoologicus 470 

Streets (and others). Natural history of Hawaiian and Fanning Islamls . .. 303 

Zoologii — Special. 

(.9«; Bulletins, National Museum. Proceedings, National Museum. Pro- 
ceedings of societies.) 

Wkuster. Annelids from Bermuda ^^^ 

Birds. 

Baird. Arrangement of birds 210 

Baii:i). Catalogue of birds, 4to 106 

Baiud. Catalogue of birds, 8vo 108 

Bairi>. Instructions for collecting birds' n sts and eggs 139 



620 CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 

Ko. in 
Catalogue. 

Baird. Review of birds, part I 181 

Bexdire. Instructions for collecting eggs 603 

Brewer. North American oology, part I (s. c. ) 89 

Circular, birds of South America 168 

Circular for the guidance of persons desiring to make exchanges of birds or 

birds' eggs with National Museum 637 

Coues and Prentiss; Avi fauna Columbiana 500 

Desiderata of birds of Mexico, Central America, etc 185 

Elliot. List of Trochilidte (humming-birds) 334 

Elliot. Monograph of Trochilidae (s. c.) 317 

Kidder (and others). Natural history of Kerguelen Island 294 

Kidder and Coues. Birds of Kerguelen Island 293 

Lawrenxe. Birds of Mexico 295 

Lilljedorg. Outline of classification of birds 364 

Merriam. Birds of the Bermudas 567 

Eeid. Birds of the Bermudas 566 

RiDGWAY. Aquatic and other birds of the United States at Loudon Fisberies 

Exhibition 553 

RiDGWAY. Catalogue of old world birds in Museum 462 

RiDGWAY. Nomenclature of North American birds 422 

Stejneger. Ornithological explorations in the Commander Islands and 

Kamtschatka 624 

Fishes. 

Baird. Circular for shipping fresh fish 384 

Baird. Circular relative to food- fishes 234 

Baird. Fishes of New Jersey coast 348 

Baird. Inquiry relative to food- fishes 231 

Bean. Catalogue of the fishes of the United States at the London Fisheries 

Exhibition 556 

Bean. Directions for collecting and preserving lisli 464 

Brown. The whale fishery and its appliances 555 

Gill. Arrangement of fishes 247 

Gill. Bibliography of fishes of Pacific coast ^63 

Gill. Catalogue of fishes 283 

Gill. Fishes of Western North America 307 

GiRARD. Monograph, cottoids (s. c.) 30 

GooDE. Berlin exhibit of fisheries and fish culture 413 

Goode. Catalogue of collection, animal resources, Philadelphia Exhibition .. 326 

GooDE. Catalogue of collection, Berlin Fisheries Exhibition 413 

GoODE. Catalogue, London Fisheries Exhibition 511 

GooDE. Catalogue and Synopsis, London Fisheries Exhibition 551 

GooDE. Fishes of Bermuda 296 

Jordan and Brayton. Fishes of South Carolina, Georgia, and Tennessee 308 

Jordan and Gilbert. Synopsis of the fishes of North America 492 

Jordan. Notes on cottidse 30^ 

Jordan. Notes on Rafinesque's memoirs, North American fishes 305 

Eathbun. Catalogueof collection illustrating research in sea and fresh water. 557 

Insects. 

Agassiz. Classification of insects (P. c. ) ^^ 

Baird. Circular on history of North Am^rii'iui gnisshojjpcrs 163 

Baird. Dejiartment of insects '^^^ 

Circular to entomologists -- ^'^^ 



CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS 621 

JJo. in 
Catalojjue. 

Circular concerning department of insects 443 

Dk Saussuke. Monograph of wasps, hyiuenoptera 254 

Fekxald. Directions for collecting motlis 600 

Hagkx. Synopsis of neuroptcra 134 

Lk Conti:. Classification of coleoptera, part 1 136 

Le CoNTE. " " part 1 1 265 

Le CONTE. Kansas and New Mexico coleoptera (s. c.) 126 

Le Conte. List of coleoptera 140 

Le Conte. New species of coleoptera, Part 1 167 

LeConte. " " Part II 264 

LOEW. Monograph of diptera, Part 1 141 

Loew. " " Partll.- !... 171 

LoEW. " " Partlll 256 

Melsheimer. Catalogue of coleoptera 62 

Morris. Catalogue of lepidoptera 118 

Morris. Synopsis of lepidoptera 133 

Osten Sacken. Monograph of diptera, Part IV 219 

Ostex Sackex. Catalogue of diptera 102, 270 

Packard. Directions for collecting insects 261 

ScuDDER. Catalogue of orthoptera 189 

WiLLiSTOX. Synopsis of Syrphidai 653 

Mammals. 

Allex. Monograph, North American bats , 165 

Baird. Catalogue, mammals 105 

Browx. Whale fishery and its appliances 555 

Gill. List of families of mammals 230 

GOODE. Catalogue of collection, animal resources, Philadelphia Exhibition.. . 326 

HoRXADAY. Directions for preserving skins of mammals 589 

JOXES. Mammals of Bermuda 565 

Lucas. Notes ou preparation of skeletons 626 

True. Catalogue of aquatic mammals, London Fisheries E.xhibition 562 

True. Plan of mammal exhibit 602 

ZloUn^l-s. 

BixxEY. Bibliography North American concliology, Part 1 142 

BixxEY. " " " Part II 174 

BixXEY. Land and fresh-water sIiclLs, Part I. Pnhnouata geopliila 194 

BIXXEY. " '' " " II. Pulmonata Limnopliil.'i 143 

BixxEY. " " " '' III. x\.mpullariid;p, etc 144 

BiXXEY. Manual of North American laud shells .. 549 

Carpexter. Molhisks of Western North America 252 

Carpexteu. Chitonida' 251 

CARP?:xrER. Lectures on mollusca 152 

Check-list of shells 128 

Circular for collecting shells 176 

Dall. Index of names applied to brachiopoda 304 

Exploring expedition, duplicate shells 193 

Gill. Families of mollusks 227 

Lewis. Instructions for collecting land and fresh- water shells 363 

Prime. Corbiculada> 145 

Stijipsox. Hydrobiinaj 201 

Tryox. Land and fresh-water shells, part IV. Strepomatiche 253 

WixsLOW. Economic mollusca of the United States at Loudon Fisheries Exhi- 
bition 554 



622 



CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 



Riidiatcs. 

No. in 
Catalogue. 

Baikd. Circular for collecting criiy-lisli 319 

CLArwK. Lucernariui (s. c.) 242 

Rathbun. Catalogue of collection to illustiato lescarclica in Ma and fresh 

water 557 

Katiiuux. Crustacea of the United tStates at Loudon Fisheries Exhibition. . 552 

Katiibux. List of marine invertebrates distributed, Series II 465 

Kathbun. " " " " Series III 471 

RAxnBLX. Manual of iuverfebrates 523 

Stimpsux. Marine invertebrata of Grand Manan (s. C.) 50 

lie])tiles. 

Bai!:d and (iiiJAKl). Catalogue of serpents 49 

Baii:d. Ciicular on collecting reptiles 320 

CoPK. iN'orth Aujerican batracliia and rcptilia 292 

Garjiax. Kept ill's of the Bermudas 568 

MiTCiiKLi. and Mo REHOUSE. Cbelonia (s. c.) 159 

Mitchell and Reichert. Venoms of poisonous serpents 647 

Weismaxx. Change of Mexican axolotl to amblystoma 401 

Yarrow. Check-list of reptiles 517 

Yarrow. North American reptiles and batrachia 493 

Shells. (See Mollusks.) 



CATALOGUE OF rUIiLlCATlONS. G23 

SMITHSONIAN CONTlilBUTlONS TO KNOWLEDGE. (Quarlo.) 



Vol. 


No. iu 
series. 


Date. 


Pages. 


Wood- 
cuts. 


Plates. 


Maps. 


Contains Nos. of Cuta- 
lo-juo. 


I 

II 

III 
IV 


2 
26 

38 

39 
55 
56 
76 

78 

92 

99 

111 

112 
151 

184 
206 
211 

229 
246 
272 
284 
285 
340 
346 
547 
606 


1848 
1851 

1852 

1852 
1853 
1854 
1855 
1856 
1857 
1858 
1859 

1860 
1863 

1865 
1867 
1870 

1871 
1872 

1874 
1876 

1877 
1886 
1881 
1885 
1885 


360 
572 

562 

42G 
53o 

484 
260 
564 
480 
462 
502 

538 
558 

490 
620 
498 

616 
646 
640 
794 
543 
537 
766 
323 
508 


207 
89 


48 
24 

:{5 




1. 

:5, 12, 20,1:!, 14, 1(1, 17,2:;, 

15, 4,. 5, 6, 7, 11. 

35, :{6, :50, :!2, 22, :'.:!, :;:, 21, 

29. 
40. 


V 

VI 

VII 

VIII 

IX 

X 

XI 

XII 
XIII 

XIV 

XV 

XVI 

XVII 

XVIII 

XIX 

XX 

XXI 

XXII 

XXIII 

XXIV 

XXV 


4 

9 

74 

52 
45 

1 
20 

15 

80 

158 
47 
76 

6 

10 

6 

4 

30 

474 

160 

8 

540 


45 
53 
72 
9 
22 
1<) 
23 

3 
4 

25 
13 

18 

14 

5 

21 

26 

9 

20 

18 
5 
8 


i' 

:3 

4' 

:V 

3 

5' 


44,41,45,43,42. 

46, 60, 61, 50, ,52, 58, 51. 

.59, (53, 70, 72, 7:5. 

71,81, 80, 82, 84, 8.5. 

8:?, 90, 86, 88, 79, 94. 

95, 97, 98. 

89,100, li:!, 104, 126. 111, 

127. 
129, 119, lO:!, 131, i:{5. 
1:50, 146, 155, 121, i:;j, 

162, 166, 1.59. 
175, 186, 180, 172. 192. 
199, 197, 202, 1<»6. 
173,204. 120,208, 221,223, 

220. 
218. 

222, 232, 2:59, 2:53. 
240, 241,262. 
268. 

280, 281, 267, 277. 
259, 269, 287, 331, 318. 
242, 248, 310, 317, :i.57. 
353, 443. 
383, 489, 509. 



624 



CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 



SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS. (Octavo.) 



Vol. 



I 

II 

III 

IV 

V 

VI 

VII 

VIII 

IX 
X 

XI 

XII 

XIII 

XIV 
XV 

XVI 

XVII 

XVIII 

XIX 

XX 

XXI 

XXII 

XXIII 

XXIV 

XXV 

XXVI 

XXVII 

XXVIII 

XXIX 

XXX 

XXXI 



No. ill 

series. 



122 
123 

124 
125 

l.J8 
161) 
191 

212 

213 

250 

273 
274 
312 

314 
315 

322 
33G 
337 
41G 
423 
424 
408 
475 
496 
504 
505 
50(5 
522 
546 
558 
559 



Date. 



1862 
1862 

1862 
1862 
1864 
1867 
1887 

1869 

1869 
1873 

1874 
1874 
1878 

1878 
1878 

1880 
1889 
1880 
1880 
1881 
1881 
1882 
1882 
1883 
1883 
1883 
1883 
1887 
1887 
1887 
1888 



Pujies. 



738 
714 

776 
762 
774 

888 
878 

921 

914 
913 

790 
767 
982 

911 

880 

950 
1034 

851 
1034 

846 

773 

1200 

1003 

1082 

785 

866 

814 

777 

787 

1108 

990 



Cuts. 



23 
33 

49 
30 



15 
813 



-30 



55 
86 
45 



53 

871 



42 

18 



97 



Plates. 



Contains Nos. of Catalo^^uo. 



148. 87. 153. 

27, 115, 53, 108, 49, 128, 34, 137, 139, 

163, 176, 138. 
102, 118, 136, 117. 
134. 133. 

142. 74. 154. 
141,171,140,167. 

165, 143, 144, 201, 145, 200,183,177, 

156,161,160,203. 
219, 189, 194, 210, 137, 207, 20.-., 178, 

168, 164. 
174, 179. 
252, 227, 235, 236, 237, 190,234,238, 

243, 245. 
230, 247, 256, 26 ! , 264, 265. 
181,255,263. 
292, 293, 294, 295, 296, 297, 303, 304, 

305, 306. 
254, 283, 288, 276, 289, 216, 301 , 311 . 
258, 266, 291, 279, 282, 300, 302, 309, 

316, 319, 320. 
253, 270, 321, 324, 325, 334, 335, 344. 
3'.;S. 
329. 
332, 333. 

330, 327, 356. 

425, 467, 

463,308,313,326,342. 

492. 

498,499,501,502,503. 

349, 469, 490, 507. 

358,437,441,478,480. 

538. 

514. 

550. 

591. 



CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 



625 



SMITHSONIAN ANNUAL KLPORTS. 



No. of 
report. 


No.i 

80 ri 


1 
2 

4 




G 





8 
9 
10 
11 
12 
13 
14 
15 
10 
17 
18 
19 
20 
21 
22 
23 
24 
25 
2(i 
27 
28 
29 
30 
31 
32 
33 
34 
35 

3(:; 

37 

38 



.,S 



40 



uS. 



91 

107 

109 

110 

147 

149 

150 

187 

188 

209 

214 

215 

224 

228 

244 

249 

271 

275 

28G 

298 

299 

323 

341 

345 

442 

515 

540 

593 

023 

048 
049 



Your. 



Pa< 



Wood- 
cuts. 



184G 
1847 
1848 
1849 

ih:,o 

1851 

1852 

1853 

1854 

1855 

185G 

1857 

1858 

1859 

1800 

1801 

1802 

18G3 

1804 

1805 

180G 
1807 
1808 
1809 
1870 
1871 
1872 
1873 
1874 
1875 
1870 
1877 
1878 
1879 
1880 

1881 

1882 

1883 

1884 

1884' 
1885 



38 
208 
04 
272 
320 
104 
9r; 
310 
4(54 
440 
408 
438 
448 
450 
448 
404 
440 
420 
450 
490 
470 
500 
474 
430 
494 
473 
450 
452 
410 
422 
488 
500 
575 
031 
782 

855 

875 

997 

943 

408 
1,014 



Pliitoa. 



4 
79 
69 
100 
48 
57 
73 
25 
94 1 
50 
50 
139 
70 
10 
40 
38 
28 

119 
33 
40 

354 
73 
49 
12 

210 
13 

82 

47 



M3 



24 



* Part II. 
n. Mis. 170 40 



Contents. (No9. of Smithso- 
nian series.) 



A, P.. L. 
1), K, I' 
F,J. 



28, 
51. 

.57. 



•)1,; 



E,C!,ir,I,N,0,21,2- 

348. 

19. 

34. 

115. 

139, 351, 

110. 

152. 

100. 

150. 

352, 301. 

354,3.55,301,302. 

300, 304, 37 L 584. 

303, 305, 308. 

3(i7, 309, 

370, 372, 373. 

251,370,501. 

375, 377, 379. 

378. 

380,382,385,380. 

393. 439. 

390, 439. 

393, 394, .595. 

307, 392, 395, 397. 

390 398, 399, 400, 401,402,403,404. 

405,400,407,408,411. 

3;',0 409, 410, 415, 418, 420, 421. 

389 419, 420, 427, 428,429,430,431, 
432, 433, 434, 435, 436, 438. 

477, 479, 481, 482, 483,484,485,486, 
487,488,491,510. 

520 524, 525, 520, 527,528,529,530, 
.53L 532, 533, 534, 535. 

574, 575. .570, 577, 578,579,580,581, 
582 583, 585, 580, 587, 588, 005. 

008, 009, 610, on, 612,S13,014,615, 
610,617,018,619,620,621. 

■o'>7 ' 028,' 029^ 032^ 033,034,635,638, 
"039 640, (i4l, 042, 043, 644, 645. 




Report of National Museum. 



626 CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 



PKOCEEDINGS OF SOCIETIES. 

No. 
Anthropological Society of Washington: 

Transactions. Vol. i, 1879 to 1882. (M. C. xxv) 501 

Abstract of transactions for 1879-'80. ( M. C. xxv) 502 

Transactions. Vol. ii, 1882-83 .'S44 

Transactions. Vol. iii, 1883 to 1885 630 

Biological Society ov Washington : 

Proceedings. Vol. i, 18S0 to 1882. (M. C. xxv) 499 

Proceedings. Vol. ii, 1882 to 1884 545 

Philosophical Society of Washington: 

JJnlletin. Vols, i, ii, iii, 1871 to 1880. (M. C. xx) 497 

JJnllctin. Vol. IV, for 1881. M. C. xxv) 498 

bulletin. Vol. v, for 1882. (M. C. xxv) 503 

lUiUctin. Vol. VI. for 1883 (M. C. xxxiii) 543 

Bnlletin. Vol. vii, for 1884 (M. C. xxxiii) .592 

]5nlletin. Vol. vili, for 1885 (M. C. XXXlii) G.36 

REPORTS ON RECENT PROGRESS IN SCIENCE. 

Anthuopology.— N08. 488, 534, .%3, G18, 640. 
Astkonom Y.— 427, 483, 525, 574, 009, 641. 
150TANY.— 430, 486, 532, 581. 
CiiEMiSTUY.— 485, 530, 579, 614, 633. 
Geography.— 527,576, 611, 632. 
Geology. — 526, 575. 
Meteorology. — 484, 528, 577, 612. 
Mineralogy.— 531, 580, 615, 639. 
Paleontology. — 610, 642. 
Physics.— 485, .529, 578, 613, 638. 
Vulcanology and Seismology.— 616, 634. 
Zoology.— 431, 487, 533, 582, 617, 643. 

TONER LECTURES. 

{For the advance of medical science.) 

No. in 
catalogue. 

No. 1. Strnctnre of cancerous tumors. J.J.Woodward..' 266 

2. Dual character of the brain. C. E. Browu-S6quard 291 

3. Strain and overaction of the heart. J. M. DaCosta 279 

4. Nature and nieclianism of fever. Horatio C. Wood 282 

5. Surgical complications of fevers. William W. Keen 300 

6. Subcutaneous surgery. William Adams 302 

7. Reparatory inflammation in arteries after ligature. Edward O. Shake- 

speare 321 

8. Sanitary drainage of Washington. George E. Waring, jr 349 

9. Mental overwork. Charles K. Mills 594 



CATALOGUE OF I'lIISLlCATlONS. G27 



LIST OF BOOKS I'Oli COLLECTOKS AND KXl'LOKEIiS. 

No. 'M. Dirt'ctiuus for coUcctiiii^, prestTving, <?to., .sj)e('iinenH of natural history. 
loU. *' " " " " nests and eggs. 

2(;L " " •' '• " insects. 

4(50. " " " " " plants. 

36(5. " " " " " diatoms. 

303. " " " " " land and fri'sh-water shells. 

'M'.). " " " " " erawlish and Crustacea. 

361. " " shipping fresh lish. 

4('>1. ■' " collecting hsh. 

20.'). " " " archaeological specimens, •-•i' 

572. " " " alioriginal antiquities. 

14iS. " " meteorological observations. 

r>\7. Clieck list, reptiles aud batrachians. 

104. Mnsenni miscellanea, series of numbers, etc. 

5k9. Directions for removing and preserving skins of mammals. 

fi90. Instructions for taking pajier molds of inscriptions in stone, wood, etc. 

600. Directions for collecting tortricids aud small moths. 

OOL Directions for mound explorations. 

003. Instructions for collecting eggs. 

020. Notes ou the preparation of skeletons. 



628 CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS, 

LIST OF PUBLICATIONS OF THE U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM. 



No. of 

Mnseum 

series. 




Smithsonian 
number. 


In volume of 

miscellaneous 

collections. 


1 


Bulletin No. 1. Cope. Check list N. A. 
Biitracbia aud Keptilia 


292 
293 
294 
295 

296 
297 
303 
304 

305 
30(i 
463 

808 
313 
326 
342 
492 
332 
312 
333 
412 
413 
470 
508 
422 
425 
444 
407 
475 
570 
493 


XIII 


2 
.3 
4 


Bulletin No. 2. Kidder and Coues. Natu- 
ral History Kerguelen Island. Part 1.. 

Bulletin No. 3. Kidder and others. Natu- 
ral History Kerguelen Island. Part 2... 

Bulletin No. 4. Lawreuco aud Sumichrast. 


XIII 
XIII 
XIII 


5 


Bulletin No. 5. Goode. Catalogue of Fishes 
of Bermuda .. 


XIII 


6 

7 


Bulletin No. 0. Goode. Classitication of 
Animal liesoarces of the United States.. 

Bulletin No. 7. Streets. Natural History 
Hawaiian and Fannin"' Islands . . 


XIII 
XIII 


8 


Bulletin No. 8. Dall. Index of Brachi- 
opod a . •-. .• ...-. 


XIII 


9 


Bulletin No. 9. Jordan. N. A. Ichthyol- 
ogy. I. Eatinesque, North American 
Fishes 


XIII 


10 


Bulletin No. 10. Jordan. N. A. Ichthyol- 
o'l'y. II. Cottid;ie -. 


XIII 


11 


Bulletin No. 11. Gill. Bibliography of 
Fishes of Paciiic coast 


XXIII 


12 


Bulletin No. 12. Jordan and Braytou. N. 
A. Ichthyology. HI. Fishes, Alleghany 
Eegion 


XXIII 


13 


Bulletin No. 13. Egjjers. Flora of St. 
Croix and Virgin Islands . . ........ 


XXIII 


14 
If) 


Bulletin No. 14. Goodo. Catalogue of 
Collection Philadelphia Exhibition 

Bulletin No. 15. Kumlien. Natural His- 
tory of Arctic America 


XXIII 
XXIII 


IG 
17 


Bulletin No. 16. Jordan and Gilbert. Syn- 
opsis of Fishes of North America 

Proceedings National Museum for 1878. 
Vol 1 


XXIV 
XIX 


18 


Bulletins National Museum. Nos. 1 to 10. 
Vol. I 


XIII 


19 


Proceediugs National Museum for 1879. 
Vol. II 


XIX 


20 


Bulletin No. 17. Cope. Zoological Posi- 
tion of Texas. .. 




21 


Bulletin No. 18. Goode. Catalogue of Col- 
lectiou Berlin Fisheries Exhibit 




22 


Bulletin No. 19. Scuddcr. Nomenclature 
Zoologicus. Index of genera 




23 


Bulletin No. 20. Goode. Bibliography of 
S. F. Baird 




24 


Bulletin No. 21. Ridgway. Nomenclature 
North American Birds 




25 


Proceediugs National Museum for 1880. 
Vol. Ill 


XXII 


26 


Bulletin No. 22. Ward. Guide to the Flora 
of Washington, D. C 




27 


Proceedings National Museum for 1881. 
Vol. IV 


XXII 


28 


Bulletins National Museum. Nos. 11 to 15. 
Vol. II 


XXIII 


29 


Bulletin No. 23. Scudder. Bibliography 
of Isaac Lea 




30 


Bulletin No. 24. Yarrow. North Ameri- 
can Keptilia and Batrachia 





CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 629 

LIST OF PUBLICATIONS OF THE U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM-Coutinned. 



No. of 

Miisenm 

series. 



31 

32 

33 
34 
35 
3G 
37 
38 
39 

40 

41 
42 
43 

44 
45 

40 



BnlletiQ No. 25. .Tones and others. Natu- 
ral History of Bornmda 

Bulletin No. 2G. Couos and Prentiss. Avi- 
fauna Coluiubiana. Birds of District 
Columbia 

Bulletin No. 27. tJoodt! and others. Cata- 
logue, London Fisheries Exhibition 

Proceedings National Museum for 18d2. 
VoL V 

Bulletins National Museum. No. 16. Vol, 
III 

Proceedings National Museum for 1883. 
Vol. VI 

Proceedings National Museum for 1884. 
Vol. VII 

Bulletin No. 28. Binney. Manual of Land 
Shells '. 

Bulletin No. 29. Stejneger. Ornithologi- 
cal Explorations in the Commander Isl- 
ands and Kamtschatka 

Bulletin No. 30. Marcou. PaL-contologi- 
cal Bibliographies 

Bulletin No. 31. Williston. Syrphida>... 

Bulletin No. 32. Cope. (In press) 

Proceedings National Museum for 1885. 
Vol. vni 

Bulletin No. 33. Egleston. (In press)... 

Bulletin No. 34. Cope. (In press) 

Proceedings National Museum for 188G. 
(In press) 



Smithsonian 
number. 



In volume of 

miscellaneous 

collections. 



495 

500 
511 
518 
492 

548 
607 
549 

624 

G25 
653 

650 



630 



CATALOGUE OF TUBLICATIONS. 



PUBLICATIONS OF THE U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM. 
Separate list of Bulletins. 



No. 


When 
iniblisbed. 


Pages. 


Cuts, 


Plates. 


Maps. 


In volume of 

miscellaneous 

collections. 


No. in 

Museum 

series. 


No. in 

Smithsonian 

catalogue. 


1 


1875 

1875 

187G 

1875 

187G 

1876 

1877 

1877 

1877 

1877 

1882 

1878 

1879 

1879 

1879 

1882 

1880 

1880. 

1882 

1883 

1881 

1881 

1885 

1883 

1884 

1884 

1884 

1885 

1885 

1885 

1886 


108 
61 

124 
56 
84 

140 

172 
88 
56 

124 
77 

237 

139 








XIII 
XIII 
XIII 
XIII 

xin 

XIII 

XIII 

XIII 

XUI 

XIII 

XXIII 

XXIII 

XXIII 

XXIII 

XXIII 

XXIV 


1 
2 
3 
4 
5 
6 
7 
8 
9 
10 
11 
12 
13 
14 
15 
16 
20 
21 
22 
23 
24 
26 
29 
30 
31 
32 
33 
38 
39 
40 
41 


292 


o 








293 


3 








294 


4 








295 


.f, 








296 


(J 








297 


7 








303 


8 








304 


9 








305 


10 
11 




45 




306 
463 


12 








308 


13 








313 


14 


3.67 
179 
1018 
55 
279 
398 
395 








32(i 


r> 








342 


]t> 








492 


17 








412 


18 










413 


10 










470 


20 










508 


21 


94 
265 
337 
255 
377 
139 
1333 
528 
382 
333 
335 










4>o 


oo 






1 




444 


'>3 




1 


570 


24 






493 


25 


"'ioo" 


12 

2 






495 


'^n 


4 




500 


97 




511 


28 


510 

7 








519 


01) 


8 


1 




624 


30 




625 


31 




12 






6r.3 











Separate list of rroceedings. 



Vol. 


For 

year. 


Pages. 


Cuts. 


Plates, 


I 


1878 


524 


8 


8 


11 


1879 


503 


') 


/ 


III 


1880 


594 


5 


o 


IV 


1881 


GOO 


13 


2 


V 


1832 


715 


52 


12 


VI 


1883 


800 


6 


14 


VII 


1884 


669 


8 


2 


VIII 


1885 


737 


15 


25 



When 
published. 



1879 

1880 
1881 
1882 
1883 
1884 
1885 
1886 



In volume of 

Miscellaneous 
collections. 



XIX 
XIX 
XXII 
XXII 



No. in 
Museum 

series. 



17 
19 
25 
27 
34 
36 
37 
43 



No. in 

Sniithsoiiian 
cataloiruc. 



332 
333 
425 

467 
518 
548 
607 
650 



CATALOGUE OF TUULICATIONS. 



631 



CIRCULARS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM. 



N.M. 

series. 



1 
2 

4 

5 

(i 

7 

8 

<J 

10 

11 

I'i 

i:$ 

14 
15 
16- 
17 

18 
19 
20 
21 

24 



27 
28 
29 

30 
31 

32 
33 
34 

35 



Title and author. 



S.L 

series. 



Plan of organization and regulation.s. G. IJrowii (Joodc 

To "friends of the Mnsenin." Spencer F. I'.aird 

Petroleum collections. Spencer F. J'.aird 

Department of insects. Sjtencer F. 15aird 

Establishment and olHcers. Spencer F. Baird 

Classification of materni-medica collection. James M. I'lint 

Classilieation ofdrngsand luedicine. .James M. Flint 

Memoranda for collectors of drnu;s. .James M. Flint 

Bnilding-stone collection. Spencer F. IJaird 

Letters on the work of the Museum. Parnet PhiHii)s 

Provisional classirication of food collection. G. Brown Gooch; 

Classification of t.axidermist's collection. W. T. Ilornaday 

Scheme of Museuiu classification. G. Brown Goode 

R('<iuesting material for the library. Spencer F. Baird 

Organization and objects of the Museum. G. Brown (ioode 

Plans for installation of the collections. G. Brown (ioodo 

Acknowledgment of contributions. Spencer F. Baird 

List of )>ublications of the Museum, la75-1881 

Catalogue of materia-medica coUec^tion. .James M. Flint 

Request for s[>ecimeTis of tlrugs. Spencer F. Baird 

Instructions for collections of aboriginal antiquity. Charles Ran. ... 

Directions for ]ireserving skins ot mammals. W. T. Ilornaday 

Instructions for taking ]iaper molds of inscrijitions, etc. A. P. Nibiack 
Plan of textile exhibit at New Orleans Exposition. R. Hitchcock. ... 
Plan for collection of building-stones and rocks at New Orleans Ex- i 



posi t ion . G. P. Merri 11 

Plan for collection of gems and precious stones at New Orleans Ex- 

])osition. F. W. Clarke 

Diiet^tinns tor collecting mollis. C. II. l'"'ernald 

Directions for mound cx))loration. Cyrus Thonuis 

Plan for collection of mamnuils at New Orleans P^xposition. F. W. 

True 

Instructions for collecting eggs. C. E. Beudire 

Plan for exhibit of mineral resources at Ne^v Orleans Exposition. 

Frederick P. Dewey 

Catalogue of materia-medica collection, revised. IT. (J. Beyer 

Notes on the preparation of skeletons. V. A. Lucas 

For the guidance of ])ersons desiring to nnike exchanges of I'irds oi- 

bird's eggs with U. S. N. Museum 

Concerning the lending of type specimens • 



4 15 
44t; 
447 
448 
449 
450 
451 
4.52 
453 
454 
455 
4.5(5 
457 
4.5H 
459 
472 
473 
474 
539 
.541 
.572 
589 
590 
597 

598 

.599 
CM) 
(iOl 

()02 

mi 

(i22 

(;37 
G4G 



PUBLICATIONS OF THE BUREAU OF ETHNOLOGY. 



Title. 


Published. 


Pages. 


Cuts. 


Plates. 


Maps. 


No. in 

Smithsonian 

Catalogue. 


First Annual Report, for 
1fi79_\S0. 


1831 

1883 
1,-84 


G38 
515 

(505 


343 
714 

200 
.5(;4 


54 

44 

83 


1 
2 


470 


Second Annual Report, for 
1880-'81 


542 


Third Annual Report, for 
1881-'82 


031 


Fourth Annual Report, foi- 
1882-'83 


052 







G32 CATALOGUE OP PUBLICATIONS. 



PUBLICATIONS HAVING SEPARATE NUMBERS IN THE SMITHSONIAN 
SERIES, BUT INCLUDED IN TME ANNUAL REPORTS OF THE INSTITU- 
TION. 

Vol. of 
Itopoit. 

A Journal of Regents 1847 

B Report of Organization Committee 1847 

D Address at laying Corner-stone. Dallas 1847 

E Exposition of Bequest. Henry 1847 

F First Rei)ort of Secretary. Hkniiy 1848 

J Programme of Organization. Hkxry , 1848 

K Correspondence, Sqnier and Davis 1848 

L First Report of Organization Committee 1847 

M Reports of Institution to 1849 184!) 

N Officers and Regents 1847 

25 Public Libraries. Jkwett 1850 

152 Lectures on Mollusca. Carpentku ISfiO 

251 Memoir of Von Martins. Rau 1869 

307 Report on Centennial. Baird 1870 

343 Annual Reports. Henky. 1865-77 

348 Fishes of New Jersey. Baird 1854 

351 Forests of North America. Cooper 1 858 

352 Lectures on Linguistics. WniTNEY 18(1:? 

354 Essay on Velocity of Light. Delaun'ay 1864 

355 Ozone and an tozoue. Wetherill 1864 

360 Palafittes. Desor 1865 

361 Aborigines of California. Baegert lS6:?-4 

362 Artificial Shell Deposits in New Jersey. Rau 18()4 

364 Classification of Birds. Lilljeborg 1865 

365 Trnneh Indians. Ross and others 1866 

367 Flora of Alaska, Rothrock 1867 

368 Indian Pottery. Rau 1866 

369 Dorpat and Poulkova. Abbe 1867 

370 Flint Implements in Illinois. Rau 1868 

371 Metric Tables. Newton 1865 

372 Drilling in Stone without Metal, Rau 1868 

373 Meteorological Station and Observers 1868 

375 Origin and Nature of Force. Taylor 1870 

376 Chemistry of the Earth. Hunt 1869 

377 Diamond and Precious Stones. Babinet 1870 

378 Dakota Language. Rceiirig 1871 

379 Eulogy on A. D. Bache. Henry' 1870 

380 Scientific Education of Mechanics. Peauopy 1872 

382 North American Stone Implements. Rau 1872 

385 Ancient Aboriginal Trade. Rau 1872 

386 Crystallography. Brezina 1872 

389 Investigation of lUumiuants. Henry 1880 

390 Tides. Hilgard 1874 

392 Prehistoric Antiquities of Hungary. Romer 1876 

393 MoundBuilders and Ancient Man in Michigan. Gillman 1873 and 1875 

394 Stone Age in New Jersey. Abbott 1875 

395 Kinetic Theories of Gravitation. Taylor 1876 

396 History and climate of New Mexico. McPaklin 1877 

397 Latimer Antiquities. Mason 1876 

398 Meteorological Memoirs. Abbe , 1877 



CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. G33 

Vol. of 
ii'port. 

399 Color-liliiidnch.s. IIolmgkkx 1877 

400 Aboriginal Structures in Georgia. JoxKS 15^77 

401 Mexican Axolot I. Weism.vnx 1877 

402 Stock-in-trade of Aboriginal Liipiilarv. llw 1877 

403 Gold Ornament from Florida. Eat 1877 

404 Polychrome Bead from Florida. Uai.dkmax 1877 

405 Ileury and the Telegraph. Ta yi-( )U 1878 

406 Peeearchos in Sound. IIknky 1878 

407 Memoir of Joseph lleury. Gkvy 1878 

408 Kei)ort of Secretary for 1878. Baird 1878 

409 Report of Museum Building Commis.'<ioa and Architects L-79 

410 Reports of Observatories. IIoldkx 1879 

411 Irritation of Polarized Nerve. Lautknbach 1878 

415 Savage Weapons. Knight 1871) 

418 Report of Secretary for 1879. Baikd 1879 

419 Report of Secretary for 1880. Baird 1880 

420 Anthropological Investigations. Mason 1879 

421 Index to Anthropological Articles. Bokh.mkk 18(9 

42G Synopsis of Ilerschel's Writings. IIoldkn and Kastixcs 1880 

427 Progress in Astronomy. IIOLDKN 1880 

428 " Geology and Mineralogy. Hawks 1880 

429 " Physics and Chemistry. Baukkk 1880 

430 " Botany. Farlow 1880 

431 " Zoology. GiLl 1880 

432 " Anthropology. Masox 1880 

433 Report of Visit to Luray Cave. Mason 1880 

434 Report of Museum Building Commission and Architects 18s0 

435 Snell's Barometric Observations. Loud 1880 

436 List of Periodicals received by Smithsonian Institution 1880 

438 Reports of Observatories. Holdkn and Bceii.meu 1880 

439 Warming and Ventilating Buildings. MORix 1873-4 

440 Anthropological Articles. Rau l8ti:]-77 

479 Report of Professor Baird for 1881 1881 

481 Miscellaneous Papers on Anthropology, 18 "1. Masox 1881 

482 Tuckahoe, or Indian Bread. Gore 1881 

483 Progress in Astronomy, 1S81. IIoLDEN 1831 

484 Progress in Meteorology, 1881. Abbe 1881 

485 Progress in Physics and Chemistry, 1881. Bakep. 1881 

486 Progress in Botany, 1881. Farlow 1881 

487 Progress in Zoology, 1881. Gill 1881 

488 Progress in Anthropology, 1881. Masox 1881 

491 Report of National Museum Building Commission. January, 188'3 1881 

510 Report of Assistant Director of Museum for 1881. Goode 1881 

520 Report of Secretary for 188-2. Baird 1882 

524 Report of Assistant Director of Museum for 1882. Goodk 1882 

525 Progress in Astronomy in 1882. Holden 18o2 

520 Progress in Geology in 1882. Hunt 1882 

527 Progress in Geography in 1882. Green 1882 

528 Piogress in Meteorology in 1832. Abbe 1882 

529 Progress in Physics in 1882. Barker 1882 

530 Progress in Chemistry in 1882. Boltox 1^82 

531 Progress in Mineralogy in 1882. Dax^v 1882 

532 Progress in Botany in 1882. Farlow 1882 

533 Progress in Zoology in 1882. Gill 1882 



Go4 CATALOnUE OF TUBLICATIONS. 

' Vol. of 

534 Progress ill Autliropology in 1882. Masox 1S32 

535 Miscellanpons papers on Anthropology. 1882 1832 

574 Progress in Astronomy in 1883. IIoldex 1883 

575 Progress in Geology in 1883. HuXT 1883 

576 Progress in Geography iu 1883. Ghkkx 1883 

577 Progress iu Meteorology iu 1883. Abbk 183:5 

578 Progress iu Physics iu 1883. Baukkr 1883 

579 Progress iu Chemistry iu 1883. Boltox 1833 

580 Progress iu Mineralogy in 1833. Dana l-'83 

581 Progress iu Botany iu 1883. Farlow 1883 

582 Progress iu Zoology iu 1883. Gill 1883 

583 Progress iu Anthropology iu 1883. Masox 1883 

584 Aurora Borealis or Polar Light. LooMis 1SG5 

585 Addresses at Unveiling of Josei)h Henry Statue. Waitk ; I'outeu 1883 

586 lieport of Secretary for 1883. Baiud 1-8:) 

587 Report of Assistant Director of Museum ibr 1883. Goodk 1883 

588 Miscellaneous papers relating to Anthropology. 1883 1883 

605 Comparative Phoualogy of Four Sioux Languages. Dorsey 1883 

G08 Peport of Secretary for 1884. Baird 1884 

609 Progress iu Astronomy in 1884. IIoldex 1884 

610 Progress iu North American Palaeontology in 1884. Marcou 1884 

611 Progress iu Geography in 1884. Green 1884 

612 Progress in Meteorology iu 1884. Abbe 1834 

613 Progress iu Physics in 1884. Barker 1884 

614 Progress in Chemistry in4.8S4. BoLTOX 1884 

615 Progress iu Mineralogy in 1884. Daxa 1884 

616 Progress in Vnlcanology and Seismology iu 1884. Rockwood 1884 

617 Progress in Zoology in 1884. Gill 1884 

618 Progress iu Anthropology in 1884. Masox 1884 

619 Antiquities of Pautaleon, Guatemala. Vreelaxd axd Braxsfokd 1884 

620 Papers relating to Anthropology. 1884 1884 

621 The Guesde Collection of Antiquities. Masox 1884 

627 Price List of Smithsonian Puhlicatious. July, 1885 1885 

628 Index to the Literature of Uranium. Boltox 1885 

629 Report of the Secretary for 1885. Baird 1885 

632 Progress in Geography iu 1885. Goodrich 1835 

633 Progress in Chemistry iu 1885. Boltox 1885 

634 Progress iu Vulcanology and Seismology in 1885. Rockwood 1885 

635 List of Foreign Correspondents. July 1, 1885. Boehmer 1885 

638 Progress iu I'hysics in 1885. Barker 1885 

639 Progress iu Mineralogy iu 1885. Dana ,. 1835 

640 Progress iu Anthropology iu 1885. Masox 1885 

641 Progress iu Astronomy iu 1885. WiXLOCK 1885 

642 Record of North American Palaeontology for 1885. Marcou 1885 

643 IVogress in Zoology in 1885. Gill 1885 

644 Vulcanic Eruptions and Earthquakes iu Iceland. Boehmer 1885 

645 Miscellaneous papers relating to Anthropology. 1885 1885 

651 Report of Secretary for 1885-8G. Baird. 18H5 1880 



CATALOGUE OF IMIULIC'ATIONP. G35 

PUBIJCATIOXS NOT IN KE(jilILAIi SHlilH.S OF " COXTKIIUJTIONS," '-COL- 
LECTIONS," OR " EEFORrs." 

C l)ij;csti of Act of Couj^rcss. 

P HiiUs oti Public Arcliitccriirc. Owkn. 

Q, Chock list of rcriodiciil.s. 

18 Report on the Discovery of the Phiiiet Neptiino. Gould. 

47 On Con.strnction of Catalogues of Libr;iri(!.s. Jewktt. 

43 liihlioj^nipliy of Anusrican Natural History for IHHL Giuaiu). 

62 Catalogue of Described Coleoptora of the United States. Mklhiikimku. 

64 List of Foreign Institntions. 

65 Registry of Periodical Phcnouiena. 

66 The Annular Eclipse of May 20, 18.")1. 

6B Vocabulary of the Jargon. Mitciikll and Tukxkk. 

69 List of Domestic Institutions. 

93 Meteorological Observations for IH."),'). 

101 M;ip of the Solar Eclipse. 

105 C^italogue of North American Mammals. Baiud. 

106 Catalogue of North American Birds. Baird. 
116 liist of Public Libraries. Rhres. 

157 Results of Meteorological Observations, IS.Vl-lsr/J. Vol. i. 

170 Comparative Vocabulary. 

182 Results of Meteorological Observations, 1S.")4-185I). Vol. ii. 

185 List of Birds of Mexico, etc. Baikd. 

193 List of Dui)licate Shells collected by Wilkes. 

217 Letter of M. Hock on Meteoric Shower. 

225 List of Foreign Correspondents. 

226 List of Smitlisouian Publications. 

260 Regulations of the Smithsonian Institution. 

278 Check list of Publications of Smithsonian Institution. 

290 C'ircnlar for distribution at Centennial. 

347 Nomenclature of Clouds. 

350 Map of Stars near the North Pole. 

359 Phiuisphere of th« Visibh; Heavens. 

366 Directions for c(dlccting Diatoniacea, etc. Edwaud.s. 

414 Base Chart. 

437 Check list of Smithsonian Publications. 

466 Directory of Officers aod Emploj'6s. 

537 Archa'ological Map of the District of C(dumbia. Kkxgla. 



636 



CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 



LIFT OF PAPERS PUBLLSHED IX THE "SMITHSONIAN CONTRIBUTIONS 

TO KNOWLEDGE." 



•SI 

o a 

CO C 


Author. 


Title of work. 


Commissions of refer- 
ence. 


1 


Squikr, E.G., and 


Ancient MoDiimeiits of MissivS- 


E. Robinson, J. R. Bart- 




Davis, E. II. 


sippi Valley. 


lett, W, W. Turner, 
S. G. Morton, G. P. 
Mar.sh. 


3 


Walker, S. C 


Researches Planet Neptnno. 




4 


Walker, S. C 


Ephemeria of Neptune for 1848. 




f) 


Walker, S. C 


Ephemeris of Neptune for l.'^19. 




G 


Walker, S. C 


Ephenieris of Neptune for 1850. 




7 


Walker, S C 


Ephemeris of Neptune for 1651. 




8 


DOWXES, JOHX 


Occult atlons in 1848. 




9 


DowNES, John 


Occultations in 1849. 




10 


Dowxes, John.. .. 


Occultations in 1850. 




11 


DoWxVEs, John 


Occultations in 1851. 


• 


12 


LiERER, Francis.. 


Vocal sounds of L. Bridgmau.. . 


W.W.S. Bliss, D.L.Dix. 


i:] 


Ellet, Charles .. 


Physical Geography of United 


A. Mordccai, F. A. Smith, 






States. 


M.L.Smith. 


14 


GlUBES, R. W 


Memoir on Mosasaurus 


Louis Agassiz, Henry D. 
Rogers. 






15 


Squier, E. G 


Aboriginal Monuments of New 


Brantz Mayer, Wm. W. 






York. 


Turner. 


IG 


Agassiz, Louis 


Classilication of Insects 


C. D. Meigs, Thaddeus 
W. Harris. 


17 


Hare, Robert 

Bailey, J. W 


Explosive'ness of Niter 


John Torrey, J. J. Abert. 


20 


Microscopic Examination of 


Lewis R. Gibbcs, Wm. B. 






Soundings. 


Rogers. 


22 


Gray, Asa 


Plant* Wrightiana^, Part I 


John" Torrey, John Ca- 


23 


Bailey, J. W 


Microscopic Observations in 


rey. 
Wm. B. Rogers, Lewis R. 






South Carolina, Georgia, and 


Gibbes. 






Florida. 




24 


Walker, S. C 


Ephemeris of Neptune, 1852. 
Appendix I. 




29 


DowNES, John 


Occultations in 1852. 




:io 


GiRARD, Charles . 


Fresh- water Fishes of North 


JaredP. Kirtland, J. E. 






America. 


Holbrook. 


:52 


Harvey, W.m. H .. 


Marine Alg:e of North America. 
Part I. 


J. W. Bailey, Asa Gray. 


8:'. 


Davis, Chas. H ... 


Law of Deposit of Flood Tide.. 


L. Agassiz, A. Gnyot. 


;>;") 


Locke, John 


Observations on Terrestrial Mag- 


Elias Loomis, .lulius E. 






netism. 


Hilgard. 


m 


Secchi, a 


Researches on Electrical Rhe- 


J. H. Lane, Jas. Curley. 






ometry. 


37 


Whittlesey, Ch.. 


Ancient Works in Ohio 


Brantz Mayer, E. G. 
Squier. 








40 


E.i( iGS, S. R 


Dakota Gramnnir and Diction- 


Minnesota Historical So- 






ary. 


ciety, W. W. Turner, C. 
C. Felton. 


41 


Leidy, Joseph 


Extinct American Ox 


Paul B. Goddard, Jo.seph 
I'ancoaht. 


42 


Gray, Asa 


Planta? Wrightiana;. Part II . . - 


■John Torrey,.Iohn Carey. 


43 


Harvev, Wm. H .. 


Marine Algio of North America. 
Part II. 


J. W. Bailc'V, Asa Gray. 


44 


Leidy, Joseph 


Flora and Fauna within Living 


J. W. Bailey, Charles F. 






Animals. 


Beck. 


45 


Wyman, Jeffries - 


Anatomy of Raiia Pipieiis 


J. B. S. Jackson, Joseph 
Leidy. 


46 


ToRREY, John 


PlantiB Fremont iame 


W.Dariingtou, Asa Gray. 


50 


Stimpson, Wm 


Marine Invertebr'ta of Grand 
Mauan. 


A. A. Gould, J. D. Dana. 



CATALOGUE OF TUBLICATIONS. Go7 

Lhl of papers puhliiihcd i)i the " ASmUh)i(»ii<tn Coiitribiilioits to Knowlethjc" — Contiiiuod. 



02 S 



52 

r>4 

58 
f)9 
(50 
61 
63 

70 

71 

72 

73 
70 

80 
81 

8-2 

83 

84 

83 

86 
88 

8'J 

00 
04 

05 

06 

07 

08 
100 
1C3 
104 
113 

114 
110 



Autlior. 



Coffin, Jas. H... 

DOWNICS, Joux.. . 
Lfidy, Joseph... 

CHAPlMa.SMITU, J. 
ToKKFY, JolIX... 

TouiiKY, Joux... 
Bailey, J. W 



Title of work. 



Lapham, I. a . 

Haven, S. F 

Leidy, Joseph 



runkle, johx d. 
Alvord, Bexj ... 

Olmsted, D 

JoxES, Joseph ... 

Mkech, L. W 

Force, Peter 



Winds of tlio Northern Heiiii- 
s])liere. 

Occulatious in lf^53. 

Ancient Fiuina. of Nebraska 

Tornado in Indiana , 

Balis Maritiuia 

Darlin^tonia Californica 

New Species of Microscopic Or- 
ganisms. 

Antiqnities of Wisconsiu 



Commissions of refer- 
ence. 



Mayer, Bkantz.. 
Gibus, W., axd 

Genth, F. a. 
Brewer, Tii. M. .. 

Hitchcock, E 

liuNKLE, Jqhn U.. 



Harvey, Wm. H. 
Harvey, Wm. H. 

Kaxe, E. K 

BowEX, T. J 

GlLLlSS, J. M 

Caswell, A 

Kane, E. K 

Bache, a. D 



Aiclueology of the United States. 

Extinct Sloth Tribe of North 

America. 
Pnblications of Societies in 

Smithsonian Library. 
Tables for Planetary Motion 

Tangencies of Circles and 
Spheres. 

Secular Period of Aurora Bore- 
al! s. 

Investigation on American Ver- 
tebrata. 

IJelative Intensity of Heat and 
Light of the Sun. 

Auroral Phenomena in North 
Latitudes. 

I*ul)lication8 of Societies in 
Smithsonian Library. Part II. 

Mexican History antl Achieology . 

Ammonia Cobalt Bases 



W. B. Ivogers, E. Looni- 



J. Hall, J. L. Le Coiite. 

J. 11. Collin, A.Caswell. 

A. (iray, John Carey. 

A. Grav, John Carey. 

C. R. Gilnuin, Walilo I. 
Burnet t. 

American Antiquarian 
Society. 

Peter Force, Brantz 
Mayer. 

Isaac Hays, W. E. Hor- 
ner. 



Benj. Peirce, Chas. H. 
Davis. 

A. E. Church, L. R. 
Gibbes. 

J. B. Cherriman, J. II. 

Cotiin. 
S. .lackson, J. Leidy, J. 

Wyniaii. 

B. I'eirce, A. B. Gould, jr. 



Soxxtag, A 

Whittlesey, Ch- 



North American Ooh)gy. Parti. 

Illustrations of Surface (Jeology 
Asteroid Supplement to Now 

Tables for h^'l' 

Marine Alg;e of North America. 
Part IlL 

>Iarine Alg;e of North America. 
3 parts coni]>lete. 

Magnetic Observations in the 
Arctic Seas. 

Yoruba Grammar and Diction- 
ary. 

Eclipse of the Sun, Sept. 7, 1858. 

Meteorological Observations, 
Providence, R. I. 

Meteorological Observations in 
Arctic Seas. 

Magnetic and Meteorological 
Observations at Girard Col- 
lege. Part I. 

Terrestrial Magnetism in Mexico. 

Fluctuations of Level in N. A. 
Lakes. 



S. F. Haven, E. H. Davis. 
John F. Frazer, John 

Torrey. 
John Gould, John Cas- 

sin. 

Benj. Peirce, Chas. H. 
Davis. 

John Torrey, Asa Gray. 
J. W. Bailey, Asa Gray. 
A. D. Bache. 

J. W. Gibbs, W. D. 

VViiitney, R. Anderson. 
J. S. Hubbard, J. II. 

Lane. 

A. D. Bache. 

Benjamin Peirce, W. 
Chauvenet. 

Stephen Alexander, Ar- 
nold Gnyot. 

A. A. Humphreys, A, W, 
Whipple. 



G'38 CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATJONS. 

Lint of papers imWished in the ^'Smithsonian CoiitribKlioiin to Euoivlvdge" — Continued. 




120 
1-21 

12G 
127 
129 
180 

i;]i 

132 

135 
140 

inf) 

159 
102 

100 
172 
173 
175 

ISO 

180 

192 
195 

190 

197 

198 
199 
202 
204 
208 
218 



HiLDKKTII, S. P., 

A?*!) Wood, J. 
Baciii:, a. D 



Lk Conte, John L 

LooMis, E 

Kank, E. K 

Kank, E. K 

Smith, N. D , 

Uaciik, a. D 



Mitchell, S.W... 

McClintock, Sill 
F. L. 

VVlIIT'lLESEY, ClI.. 

Mitchell, S. W. & 

MoitEiiousE, G. R. 

J3AC1IE, A. D 



15ACI1E, A. D 

Mkek, F. B., and 

Haydex, F. V. 
Dkax, John 

Baciie, A.D 

Drai'ek, it 

Bache, a. D 

Leidy, JosErii... 
Baciie, A. I) 

Hayes, I.I 

Whittlesey, Cii. 

Kane, E. K 

Newcomi-., S 

pumpelly, r 

Cleaveland, p. . 

PiCKEKING, ClIAS. 
Morgax, L. II .. . 



Title of work. 



Meteorological Observations, 

Marietta, Ohio. 
Magnetic ami Meteorological 

Observations at Girard Col- 
lege. Part II. 
Coleoptera of Kansas and New 

Mexico. 
Storms in Eiiroi)e and America, 

December, 1830. 
Astronomical Observations in 

the Arctic Seas. 
Tidal Observations in the Arctic 

Seas. 
Meteorological Observations in 

Arkansas from 1840 to 1850. 
Magnetic and Meteorological 

Observations at Girard Col- 

l(^ge. Part III. 
Venom ot the Rattlesnake 

Meteorological Observations in 
the Arctic Seas. 

Ancient Mini ii.u on Lake Snpcrior 

Anatomy and Physiology of Res- 
piration in Chclonia. 

Magnetic and Meteorological 
Observations at Girard Col- 
lege, Parts IV, V, and VI. 

Magnetic Survey of Pennsyl- 
vania. 

Paleontology of tke Upper Mis- 
souri. Part I. 

Gray Substance of the Medulla 
Oblongata. 

Mag. and Met. Obse.rv. at Girard 
College. Parts VII, VIII, and 
IX. 

Construction of a Silvered Glass 
Telescope. 

Mag. and M*t. Observ. at Girard 
College. Parts X, XI, and XII. 

Cretaceous Reptiles of the U. S.- 

Girard College Observations. 
Complete. Parts I to XII. 

Physical Observations in the 
Arctic Seas. 

Glacial Drift of Northwestern 
States. 

Physical Observations in the 
Arctic Seas. Complete. 

Orbit of Neptune 

Geological Researches in China, 
Mongolia, etc. 

Meteorological Observations, 
Brunswick, Me., 1807-1859. 

Gliddon Mummy Case in Smith- 
sonian Institution. 

Systems of Consanguinity and 
'Affinitv. 



Commissions of refer- 
ence. 



C. Zimmerman, F. E. 
Melsheimer. 

S. 1'. Hildreth, A. Cas- 
well. 

A. D. Bache. 

A. D. Bache. 



Fr.inklin liaclie, Robley 
Dunylison. 



D. WilsDn, E. H. Davis. 
J. Wyman, J. Leidy. 



Isaac Lea, Jas. D. Dana. 

W. A. Hammond, JefTries 
Wyman. 



Wolcott Gibbs, J, M. 
Gilliss. 



L. Agassiz, E. D. Cope. 
Benj. Pcirce, \V. Chau- 
venet. 



L. Agassiz, J. P. Lesley. 
A. D. Bache. 

C. H. Davis, Stephen 
Alexar.der. 

National Academy of Sci- 
ences. 



J. A. Iladlev, J. H. 
T r u m b u 1 1, W. D. 
Whitney. 



CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. G39 

Lht of impcrs i)Hblhhcd in the " iSmUUnoHuin. ('oitlrUniltons to Kuowlvihjo" — Ci)iiliiiiic(l. 



Author. 



Swan, Jas. G 

Cori'iN, Jamks 1[ . 
Sciiori', CiiAS. A . 



Could, ]'. A 

Stuckwki.i., J. N 

Fkiikki,, Wm 



Hauknkss, Wm 



15aknai;i), J. G 

Wood, U.C , 



Clark, IL.J 

HlLGAltJ), E.W... 

.jonks.jos 

Nkwcomh, S 

Swan, J. G 

COFI'IN,.J. H 

HaBKL, SlMKON . . 



schott, c. a -. 
Alkxandki;, S 

NKWCO.MI!, S .. 
IvAU, ChAKLKS 



Bauxahd, J. G 

Elliot, D. G 



Dall, Wm. II 

RaU, ClIAKLES 

SCIIOTT, C A 

Wood, II. C 

liHANSl'ORI), J. F .. 

Caswkll, a 

CoPK, E. D 



Title of work. 



Indians oT Cupo Flattery 

Orbit, etc., of Meteoi ie Fire I5all, 
JnlyJO, 1HC)U. 

Tallies of L'ain and Snow in 
United States. 

Transatlantic Lonyitnde. 

Secular Variations of Orbits of 
Planets. 

Converj(in>;' Series, Katio of Di- 
ameter, and Circumference of 
Circles. 

Magnetic Observations on the 
Mouadnock. 

Problems of Rotary Motion. 
Fresh Water Algaj of North 

America, 
fincernaria^ 
Gcoloj^y of Lower Louisiana. 

Antiquities of Tennessee 

Orbit of Uranus 

Haidah Indians 

Wiuds of the Globe. 
Sculptures(jf Santa Lucia Cosu- 

malwhuapa in (iualeuiala. 
Temperature Tables. 
Harmonies of Solar System. 

Planetary Motion 

Archa!oIo<;ical Collection, Nat. 

Museum. 
Internal Structure of th(i Earth. 
Classification and Synopsis of 

Trochilidie. 
Remains of Man from Caves in 

Aleutian Islands. 
The Palenque Tablet 



Tables of Rain-fall (2d edition). 
Researches on Fever 



Rau. C. 



5 MiTCIlKLL, S. W..|? 

I Rkichert, E.T ..j^ 



Archteological Researches i n 
Nicaragua. 

Meteorological Observat ion s, 
Providenc.1, R. I., 1831 to 187(). 

Contents of a Bone Cave in the 
Island of Anguilla (West In- 
dies). 

Prehistoric Fishing Lu Europe 
and America. 

Venoms of Poisoijous Serpents. 



Commissions of refer- 
ence. 



Georg(< (iibbs, .Jctl'rics 

Wyinan. 
II. Newton, ('. A. Scliotl. 



J. II. ('. Ccflin, S. Nt'w- 
couib. 



Pres. Acad. ScicTiccs. 
.1. H. C. Collin, F. 
Rogers. 

J. 'J'orrey, F. A. P. Bar- 
nard. 



(i. A. Otis, O. T. Mason. 
.1. II. C. Collin, As.iph 

Hall. 
J. C. Welling, G. A.Otis. 

W. I). WMiilncy, J. II. 
Trninbul!. 



H. A. Newton, C. W. 
Hill. 



S. F. Haven, 11. H. Han- 
croft. 

S. Weir Mitchell, .J. J. 

Wootlward. 
Garrick Mallery, H. C. 

Yarrow. 



^oseph Leidy. 



I). G. Jbinton, II. W. 

liaynes. 
^J. S'. Billings, H. G. 
I Beyer, 



640 CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 



ALPHABETICAL INDEX. 



Note. — Tho heavy-faced figures iudiciite the specific number iu the Catalogue of a 
separate publication; the ordinary, or light-faced figures iudicating the uuuiber 
of a publication of which the paper is only a constituent part. 

" R." represents the annual Smithsonian Report, with the year of the report. 

" F." represents the proceedings of the National Museum, with the year of publication. 

" E." represents report of the Bureau of Ethnology. 

Note. — -This Index refers only to titles of publications, or distinct articles. 

A. 

Abbe, Cleveland — 

Account of x>rogress in Meteorology — 

1881 (R. 1881) r)15,484 

1882 (R. 1882) 540,528 

1883 (R. 1883) 093,577 

1884 (R. 1884) 623,612 

Description of observatories at Dorpat and Poulkova. (R. 1867) 21l'>, 369 

Meteorological memoirs, translated by. (R. 1877) 323, 398 

Abbott, C. C. — Stone age in New Jersey. (R. 1875) 298,394 

Abbreviations — 

of names of States, etc., for labelling collections 164 

used in England in 1867— W. de la Rue. (R. 1867) 215 

Abeona aurora — Jordan and Gilbert. (P. 1880) 425 

Abich, S. Remarkable forms of hail-stones. (R. 1869) 228 

Aboriginal — 

antiquities, contributions of, to Museum, circular relative to — C. Rau (P. 

1883) 548,572 

art, a supposed specimen of— G. F. Matthew. (R. 1831) 481,515 

Indians of America, language of — G. Gibbs. (R. 1870) 244 

inhabitantsof California— J. Bakgeut. (R. 1863; R. 1864).. ..187, 188, 440, 361 

lapidary, stock-in-trade of— C. Rau. (R. 1877) 323,440,402 

monuments of State of New York— E. G. Squieu 15 

pottery, department of, National Museum, reiiort of curator for 1884 (R. 

1884,11) 648 

remains near Naples, 111. — John G. Henderson (R. 1882) 535, .540 

remains of Tennessee— J. Jones 259 

ruins at Savannah, Tenu. — J. P. Stelle. (R. 1870) 244 

ruins in Hardin County, Tenn.— J. P. Stelle. (R. 1870) 244 

shell-mounds, New Brunswick and New England — S. F. Baird. (P. 1881). 467 
soapstone quarry and shell-heaps in Alabama — Charles Mohr (R. lc*ei).5]5, 481 

structures in Carroll County, Tenn. — Jamks D. Null. (R. 1882) 535, 540 

stnicturesin Georgia— C. C. Jones, Jr. (R. 1877) 323,400 

works on Klikitat River, Washington Territory.--T. M. Whitcomb. (R. 

1881) 481,515 

Aborigines — 

antiquities and, of Texas— A. R. Rokssler. (R. 1831) 481,515 

North American, basket-work of the— O. T. Maso'n. (R. 1884, ii) 648 

of Florida— S, T. ^yAHvER. (R. 18si) , , ,481,515 



CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 041 

Abstracts — 

from autliropoloniciil c'oiTol[)oiuk'neo. ( Iv. 1881 ; It. 1882) 5,10 515 

of aiithropoloj^ical coiTcspondoiice— O. T. Masox. (li. 1871); U. 1880).. ..345, 44'J 
of trausactious of tlio anthropological society of WaHliiiigton 50 1 502 

Academy, Pontifical, Rome — See Prize (xuestions. 

Academy of Sciences — See National. 
Uordeanx — See Prize questions. 

Cliicago, acknowledging specimens. (R. 18(57) o[5 

St. Petersburg, exchange system. (R. 18G7) 21', 

Vienna — See Prize questions. 

Acalephie, anatomy, and i^hysiology of — 11. J. Clakk , 242 

Acanthephyra— 

breviroshis, new species, from Fisli Commission dredging— S. I. Smith 

(P-l««4) ; 007 

microphthalma, new species, from Fish Commission dredging — S. 1. Smith. 

(P. 1884) r ." (507 

Acanthozono polyacantha, new species, from Arctic Alasi^a, d(!scriiiti()n of—.). 

Murdoch. (P. 1884) G(i7 

Accidental or subjective colors — Abbe Moigno. (R. 18G(;) 21-1 

Achirus comifer, new species, de.scriiJtiou of — D. S. Jokdax ; C. II. Gilbkkt. (P. 

1884) 607 

Acid, sulphurous, action of, upon putrefactive bacteria. (P. 1881) 4(>7 

Acknowledgment of — 

birds — Academy of Sciences, Stockholm. (R. 1867) 215 

birds— J. Gould. (R. 1867) 21.-, 

contributions to National Museum. (P. 1881) 407, 473 

ferns— G. Mkttenius. (R. 1862) 150 

pereunibranchiates — J. G. Fishkr. (R. 186:v) 187 

shells, etc.— W. II. Pea.si:. (R. 1861) I49 

specimens — British Museum. (R. 1865) 209 

specimens — Chicago Academy of Sciences. (R. 1867) , 215 

specimens — Regents of University of State of New York. ( R. 1865) 209 

Acmicidjc, from Panama, new species of — P. P. Carpenter 252 

Acoustics — 

applied to public buildings— J. IIknry. (R. 18.56) 91 

different kinds of refraction- W. B. Taylor. (R. 1875) 298 

lectures on architecture in relation to — D. B. Reid. (R. 18.56) 91 

Acrocephalus dybowskii, description of. (P. 1883) 548 

Acrothelo, note on— C. A. White. (P. 1880) 425 

Acts of Congress — ,See Congress. 

Adams, C. B. — 

catalogue of shells of Panama, review of — P. P. Caki'ENTku 2.52 

shells collected by, description of 2.52 

Adams, W. Subcutaneous surgery. Toner lecture No. vi 302 

Adams, W. II. Mounds in Spoon River Valley, Illinois—^ 

(R. 1879) 345 

(R. 1881) 51.5,481 

(R. 1883) .593, .588 

Address — 

at laying of corner-stone of Smithsonian building — G. M. Dallas D,329 

on the Smithsonian Institution — J. Henry. (R. 1853) E,67 

President Royal Society of Victoria— R. L. J. Elleuy. (R. 1868) 224 

Addresses at — 

memorial services of J. Henry — Stc Henry. 

the unveiling of the Joseph Henry statue. (R. 1833) .593,585 

H. Mis. 170 41 



642 CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 

^lurichtbys eydouxii, Note on— D. S. JOKDAN. (P. 1834) 607 

Aerial navigation, currents of tbo atmosphere and — J. Henry. (R. 18G0) 147 

Aeronautic — 

voyage across tlie Atlantic, Memorial relative to Lowe's. (R. 18G0)... 147 

voyages— F. Akago. (R. 1863) 187 

voyages— J. Glaishhr. (R. 1863) 187 

Aeronautics, modes of flight in relation to — J. 13, Pettigrew. (R. 1867) 215 

Affinitiesof the Ephippiids, Note on— T. Gill. (P. 1882) 518 

Affinity, systems of— L. II. Morgan 218 

Africa — 

stone celts in— G. J. GiBBS. (R. 1877) 323 

Yoruba, account of, and grammar and dictionary 98 

Agassiz, L. — 

biographical notice of— J. A. Garfield. (R. 1873) 275,329 

biographical notice of— P. Parker. (R. 1873) 275,329 

biography of— E. Favre. (R. 1878) 341 

memoir of— R. P. Stebbins. (R. 1873) 275 

papers by — 

classification of insects from embryological data 16 

narrative of the Ilassler expedition. (R. 1872) 271, 329 

on the formation of a museum. (R. 1849) 21, 329 

report on use of new hall in Smithsonian building. (R. 1867) 215,329 

scientific instructions to Captain Hall. (R. 1871) 249 

supplemental list of generic names employed by — S. II, Scudder 470 

Agnew, S. A. Mounds in Mississippi. (R. 1867) 215 

Agonidic, new species of, from California— W. N. LOCKINGTON. (P. 1880) 425 

Agouus vulsus— Jordan aud Gilbert. (P. 1880) 425 

Agricultural — 

Association of Milan, on exchanges. (R. 1863) 187 

chemistry, lectures on — S. W. Johnson. (R. 1859) 110 

flint implements in Illinoia-C. Rau. (R. 1868) 224,440,370 

implements of North American stone period — C. Rau. (R. 1863) 187, 440 

AiNSA, Santiago. Tucson meteorite. (R. 1863) 187 

Air, temperature in ascending — 

currents of— J. Hann. (R. 1877) 323,398 

moist currents of— L. Soiincke. (R. 1877) 323,398 

Air-currents, nature of— A. Colding. (R. 1877) 323,398 

Airy, G. B. Correcting measures of the sun's distance. (R. 1859) 110 

Alabama — 

Aboriginal soapstone quarry and shell-heaps in — Charles Mohr. (R. 

1881) 515,481 

Jefferson Count}"^, mounds, workshops, and stone-heaps in — William Ges- 

NER. (R. 1881) 515.481 

Additions to Museum by Berlin Fisheries Exhibition. (R. 1880) 442 

Address at laying of corner-stone of Smithsonian bujlding — G. M. Dallas 329, D 

Alachua County, Fla., mounds in— James Bell. (R. 1881) 515,481 

Alaska — 

Arctic, new species of Crustacea from, description of — J. Murdoch. (P. 1884) 007 

bibliography of fishes of, for 1880— T. H. Bean. (P. 1881) 467 

climate of— H. M. Bannister. (R. 1866) - 214 

description of Lycodes Turneri from — T. H. Bean. (P. 1878) 332 

descriptions of new fishes from — T. H. Bean. (P. 1881) 4678 

flora of— J. T. Rothrock. (R. 1867) 215,367 

lichens collected in, by T. H. Bean, list of, and notes upon -J. T. ROTIIROCK. 

(P. 1884) 607 



CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 043 

Alaskii — Con tinned. 

limpets and chitons of, report on — W. IL Dall. (P. 1878) ;V.]2 

7nelautUa J'unca (hinu) in — K. Ridgway. (P. 18R4) 007 

Miocene llora of, contribution to -\j. IjK.squeukux. (P. 1882) .'jl8 

mountain sheep of (Oris monliuia dalli), now goo^rapliical race of — K. W. 

Nelsox. (P. 1834) (i07 

now fisli from— T. 1 [. Bkan. (P. 187U) :',:]:{ 

new fish from— W. N. Lockingtox. ( P. 1880) -l-J.') 

new forms of moUnsks from — W. H. Dall. (P. 1878) :VA2 

new petrel from— R. Ridgwav. (P. 1882) r)18 

new species of Aspidophoroides from — T. IF. Bi'Iax. (P. 188r>) (ioO 

new species of coregoiius 7ieltionii from, descrii)ti(m of— T. IT. Pkax. (P. 

1884) (107 

new species of porpoise (phocana dnlU) from — F. W. TnUK. (P. 188.")) (j.'iO 

Nichols' collection of iislies from, Notes on — T. II. Bkax. (P. 1881 ; 1883).4G7, .^48 

Notes on birds collected in— T. II. Bkax. (P. 1862) .^ilS 

Nushagak, ijlants collected at, in 1881, by C. L. McKay, list of — F. II. Kxowi.- 

TON. (P. 1885) (wO 

Ugashak River, Bristol Bay, ethnological specimens from l^gashagmut tribe, 

catalogue of— W. J. FisHEU. (P. 188.3) ."^48 

occurrence of Ilippoglossus vulgaris at — T. II. Bjcax. (P. 1879) 'XVA 

occurrence of Stichaus punctatus at — T. II. Bkax. (P. 1878) '.V.V2 

preliminary catalogue of fishes of — T. II. Bkax. (P. 1881) 41)7 

remains of prehistoric man from caves in — W. H. Dalt, 318 

some genera and species of fishes from — T. II. Beax. (P. 1879) '.'>',y,i 

Alaskan Innuits, jadcito iniitlemeutsof the, on the source oi" the — F. W. Nki.sox. 

(P. 1883) .',4 

Albany, 111., mound skull and bones— R. J. Farquiiarsox. (R. 1874) 28G 

Albany Institute, memorial proceedings relative to Joseph Henry ooG 

Albatross — 

collection of birds from Coznmet, Yucatan, catalogue of^R. Ridoway. (P. 

188o) <;''0 

collection of Echins in 1884 and 1885, reports on— R. Ratiihux. (P. 1885). (>:,(} 

collection of Medusae— J. H. Fewkes. (P. 1385) G50 

collection of stalked crinoidsiu 1884 and 1885, report on— R. RATJiriux. (P. 

1885) f'-''" 

Album from Greece, presented by Miss E. B. Coutaxaki. (R. 1857) ll)7,:?2'J 

Alcyonid polyp from Japanese Avater.s, description of — R. E. C. Stearxs. (P. 

1883) S4H 

Alepocephalus — 

Bairdii, from deep sea A.tlautic— G. B. GOODK ; T. II. Beax. (P. 1879) 333 

prodnctns, new species of, synopsis of — T. Gill. (P. 1883) 548 

Allen County, Ky., mounds in— R. B. Evaxs. (R. 1881) 481,515 

Aleutian Islands, remains of prehistoric man from — W. II. Dall 318 

Alexaxdek, B. S. Report of architect. (R. 1854) 75,329 

ALEXAXI)^:R, C. A. Origin and history of Royal Society of London. (R. 18G3). 187 
Alexaxder, S. — 

Harmonies of the solar system 230 

lecture on relations of time and space. (R. 18G1) F19 

lecture on vastness of visible creation. (R. 1857) P'7 

Alga;— J. W. Bailey ~-^ 

Aigie- 

Arctic, list of— W. II. IIauvey 'J> 

Arctic America— W. G. Farlow •'*- 

bibliography of— II. C. Wood --.■- -»!■ 



644 CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 

Algiu— Continued. 

Kerguelen Island— W. G. Faulow 294 

lecture on marine — W. H. Hakvky. (R. 1655) 77 

marine — 

Part 1, MelaaospermeiB — AV. H. Hauvk y 32 

Part 2, Rhodospermaj — W. II. Hauve Y 43 

Part 3, Chlorospermeic — W. II. IIar vk Y 95 

Parts 1, 2, 3, complete— W. II. IIarvky 96 

North American fresh water, history of— II. C. Wood 241 

Rhode Island, list of— S. T. Olxky 241 

Allen, II. Monograph of bats of North America 165 

Allen, Z. Explosibility of coal oils. (R. 18C1) 149 

Altitude, diminution of vapor with increasing— J. IIann. (R. 1877) 323,398 

Altitudes, circular relative to — J. Henuy 236 

Alvokd, B. Tangencies of circles and of spheres 80 

Amathia Tanneri, new species from south coast of New England, description of— 

S.I.Smith. (P. 1883) 548 

Amazillia — 

cerviniventris — R.Eidgway. (P. 18S1) 4()7 

yucatanensis — K. Ridgway. (P. 1881) 4G7 

Amhlystoma — 

change of axolotl to— A. Weismann. (R. 1877) 323,401 

copeianum, description of — O. P. Hay. (P. 1885) 650 

liiridiim— P. R.IIoy. (R. 1854) 75 

mcxicanum, notes on the habits and the rearing of — T. II. Bean. (P. 1882). 518 
America — 

;See Arctic, Britisb, Central, Middle, North, Russian, South. 

ancient history of— M. Mucir. (R. 1871) 249 

collection of charts and maps of— J. G. KoiiL. (R. 185G) 91 

Europe and, prehistoric fishing in — C. Rau 606,509 

grasshoi)pers and locusts of— A. S. Taylok. (R. 1858) 109 

language of aboriginal Indians of— G. Gibbs. (R. 1870) 244 

northeastern coast of, marine invertebrata of the, recent additions to the, 

notice of— A. E. Veuiull. (P. 1885) 650 

storms in, December, 1836 — E. Loo.mls 127 

tree creepers of, critical remarks on— R. Ridgway. (P. 1882) 518 

tropical, Pacilic coast of, fishes known from, list of— D. S. Jokdan. (P. 

1885) 650 

American — 

aboriginal pottery, department of, National Museum, report of curator for 

1884. (R. 1864") and for 1885 (R. 1885") 648,654 

Academy of Arts and Sciences — 

on Smithsonian exchange system. (R. 1867) 215 

report on organization of Smithsonian. (R. 1853) (17 

thanks for exchanges. (R. 1855) 77 

Autiqnarian Society. Antiquities of Wisconsin 70 

ancient, art in shell of the— 11. W. Holmes. (E. 1880-'81) 542 

archaeology circular 316 

Association for Advancement of Science — 

combined meteorological observations proposed. (R. 1851) 51 

memorial address on Joseph Henry — A. M. May'ek 417 

Boardof Commissioners for Foreign Missions. Grammar and dictionary of 

Dakota language 40 

ethnological investigation, plea for — H. R. SciiooLcnArx. (R. 1885) 645,649 

Ethnological Society, report on Scjuier and Davis's work. (R. 1847) H,K 

migration— F. Von IIkllwald; Joseph IIenuy. (R. 18G0) 214 



CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. G45 

American — Continued. 

ji.itnralists, bibliographies of — 

I. S. F. Baird— G. B. Goodk 508 

II. Isaac Lea— N. P. ScuuDKii 570 

III. F. B. Meek, C. A. White, C. D. Walcott-J. B. Marcou 625 

Aminins — 

cragini, description of — C. II. (iiLr.i.UT. (P. 1881) (;()7 

pondorosus, from Mississippi Iviver — T. II. I'.fan'. (P. IST'.I) ;v.V,\ 

Amitra, new generic name for — G. B. Goodi:. (P. 188;',) r>48 

Ammochares artifox, new species, description of — A. E. Vkukili.. {W 188:>) ... (150 

Ainmocrypto clara, description of — 1). S. JouD.vN ; S. E. Mkkic. (1". 188.')) (i.")!! 

Ammonia-cobalt bases — \V. (Jinns ; F. A. Gkxth 88 

Amorthiira pallescens, description of — (P. 183:5) , .')48 

Ampere, eulogy on — F. Ar.\.go. — (R. 187'2) 271 

Amphibians — 

description of new species — II. C. YAKl^o\v. (P. 1882) r)lS 

new species of, in National Musftum — II. C. Y.vrkow. (P. 18-iv!) 518 

Amphinome lepadis, new species, description of —A. E. Vkruh.l. (!'. 188.")) G50 

Amphiura fragil'is, new species, description of — A. E. Veuuili,. (I'. 188.")) fi.'jO 

Amphorosteus, rnemior on — R. W. Gibbes 11 

Ampuilariida; — \V. G. Bix.vky 144 

Anaitis — 

formosa, new species, description of — A. E. Veuhill. (P. 188.')) 0.50 

picta, new species, description of — A. E. Verrill. (P. 188.")) 0.50 

Analyses of Chinese and Japanese coals — .T. A. MacDoxald 20i 

Analysis — 

chemical, of the sun — A. LAi'dKL. (R. IHiJl) 149 

of blood — J. JoxES 82 

of water destructive to lish in Gulf of Mexico— F. M. Exdlicii. (!'. H81). 407 

spectrum— W. IIUGGINS. (R. 1800) 214 

Anan}authia, from Fish Commission dredging — S. I. Smith. (T. If-SI) 007 

Anarrliichas lepturns, from Al.aska, and other species — T. H. Beax. (P. 1878) . ;?3:5 

Anas bo.schas + obscura, domesticated hybrid ducks — E. Si.adk. (P. 1884).. 007 
Anatomical preparations, arsenic acid for pi'otecting, from insects — .1. B. S. 

Jacksox. (P. 1878) :V,V> 

Anatomy — 

and relations of the Einypliaryngid:i'.— T. Gill; .1. \. Rvdkr. (P.Hs;))... 548 

and physiology of cheUmia — S. W. Mitchell; G. R. Morehouse 159 

and physiology of] ncernarians — H. J. Cl.vrk 242 

and physiology of the rattlesnake — S. W. Mitchkli 135 

ot the nervoua syHtem of Bana pipiens — J. Wymax 45 

Ancient — 

aboriginal trade in North America— C. Rau. (K. 1872) 271, 101,385 

Americans, art in shell of the— H. W. Holmes. (E. 1880-81) 542 

and modern purple dyeing. (R. 180i?) 187 

burial mound in Indiana — W. Pidgeox. (R. 1807) 215 

canals in Florida— Charlks J. Kexworthy. (R. 1881) 481,515 

earthworks — 

in Chin.a, Mark Williams. (R. 1885) (145,049 

of Ashland County, Ohio— G.W. Hill. (R. 1877) 323 

of Ohio, .sketch of— I. Dille. (R. 1800) 214 

on Upper Missouri—A. Bai;raxi)T. (R. 1870) 244 

fauna of Nebraska — .1. Leidy 58 

fort and burial ground, Tompkins County, N. Y. — 1). Trowbridgk. (R. 

1803) l'^7 



646 CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 

Aiu'ieut— Couiiuued. 

forts in Ogemaw Connty, Midi.— M. T. Lkacii. (R. 1884) 620,6'23 

griives and shell licaps of California — P-JSchumachek. (K. 1874) 286 

history of North America — M. Much. (R. 1871) 249 

implement of wood found in Connecticut — E. W. Ellswoutii. (R. 1870).. 299 

man in Michi<ran, characteristics of — H. Gillmax. (R. 1875) 393,298 

mica mines in North Carolina — CD. Smith. (R. 1876) 299 

mining on Lake Superior — C. Whittlesey 155 

mining on Lake Superior, circular on — J. Henry. (R. 1861) 119 

monuments in the Mississippi Valley, correspondence relative to. (R. 1847). H, K 

monuments in the Mississippi Valley — E. G. Squier ; E. H. Davis 1 

mound^ 

in western Pennsylvania— W. M. Taylor. (R. 1877) ;^23 

near Chattanooga, Teuu. — M. C. Read. (R. 1867) 2ir> 

near Lexington, Ky.— R. Peter. (R. 1871) 249 

Saint Loui.s, Mo.— T. R. Peale. (R. 1861) 149 

mounds — 

in Clinton County, Mich.— M. T. Leach. (R. 1884) 020.62:? 

in Goorgia—M. F. Stephenson. (R. 1870) 244 

in Kentucky— R. Petek. (R. 1872) '. 271 

of Mercer County, 111.— T.McWhokter. (R. 1874) 286 

of Union County, Ky.—S. S. Lyon. (:v.1870) 244 

pottery from Phillips County, Ark. — J. H. Devereux. (R. 1872) 271 

pottery ou Des Moines River- R. N. aud C. Dahlberg. (R. 1879) 'Mr> 

relic of Maya sculpture — A. Schott. (R. 1871) 249 

relics at Dayton, Ohio — Aug. A. Foerste. (R. 1883) r>88, 593 

relics in Missouri — J. W. Foster. (R. 1863) 187 

relics in northwestern Iowa — J. B. Cutts. (R. 1872) 271 

remain.s — 

in Can.^,da West, near Prescott—W. E. Guest. (R. 1856) 91 

in Colorado— E. L. Berthoud, (R. 1867) 215 

in Ohio— J. P. MacLean. (R. 1885) 045,649 

in White River Canon— R. T. Bron. (R. 1882) 540 

near Cobden, 111.— F. M. Farrell. (R, 1881) 481,515 

rock inscriptions in Johnson County, Ark. — Edward Green. (R. 1881)481,515 

ruin in Arizona— J. C. Y. Lee. (R. 1872) 271 

town in Minnesota — O. II. Kelley. (R. 1863) 187 

works in Ohio, description of — C. Whittlesey 37 

Anderson, M. B. Life of Prof. Chester Dewey. (R. 1870) 244 

Anderson, W. Antiquities of Perry County, Ohio. (R. 1874) 286 

Anderson, W. G. Mounds in Illinois and Wi.scousin. (R. 1879) 345 

Andesites, hornhlendc;, from new volcano in Bogosloff Island in Bering Sea — 

G. p. Merrill. (P. 1885) 6.')0 

Andrews, F. D. Indian relics from Schoharie, N. Y. (R. 1879) 345 

Andrews, S. L. Meteors. (R. 1866) 214 

Anemometer, description of Smithsonian — J. Henry. (R. 1800) 147 

Aneroid barometers, oxperiments—B. Stewart. (R. 1868) 224 

Auguilla, island of, contents of bone cave in — E. D. Cope 000,489 

Animal — 

carvings from the mounds of the Mississippi Valley — H. W. Henshaw. 

(E. 1880-'81) '. 542 

kingdom, list of substances derived from — G. B. Goode 297 

kingdom, parthenogenesis in — G. A. Kornhuber. (R. 1871) 219 

resources of United States, classiOoation of collection — G. B. Goode 297 

resources of United States, collection at Centennial— G. B. Goode 326 



CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 647 

Animals — 

circular for shipping — S. F. Baird 384 

flora and fauua within, living — J. Leidy 44 

list of all generic names of — S. II. Scuddeu 470 

synopsis of useful and injurious — G. B. GoODE 297 

Anna, 111., mounds near— T. M. Perrin. (K. 1872) 271 

Annals of Philosophy, list of Smithson'a papers in. (R. 185:?) (17, [VM) 

Annelids of — 

Arctic America — A. E. Veurill :{42 

Korguclen Island — A. E. Verrili 294 

northeastern coast of America— A. IL Verrii.t,. (P. 1879; P. 1880; P. 

1885) :5:!:5, 425, C.5() 

the Bermudas — H. E. Webster 495,569 

Annotated list of the described specimens of parasitic copopoda from American 
waters, contained in the U. S. National Museum — R. RATiinuN. 

(P. 1884) r07 

Annular eclipse of May 26, 1854 66 

Anornura of the south coast of New England, jireliminary report ou Pish Com- 
mission dredging— S. I. Smith. (P. 1883) 548 

Anoplonotns iiolitus, new genus and species, from south coast of New England, 

description of— S. L Smith. (P. 1883) 548 

Anser lecopareius of Brandt, note on — R. Ridgway. (P. 1885) 650 

Antennariid;c, note on — T. Gill. (P. 1878) 332 

Anthozoa of — 

Kerguelen Island — A. E. Verrill 294 

northeast coast of America — A. E. Verrill. (P. 1879) 333 

Anthropological — 

articles, Smithsonian, index to— G. H. Boehmer. (R. 1879) 345, 421 

Congress, address before— F. F. Romer. (R. 1876) 299, 392 

correspondence, abstracts from. (R. 1881; R. 1882) 515, 540 

correspondence, abstracts of — O. T. Mason. (R. 1880) 442 

correspondence, summary of — O. T. Masox. (R. 1879) 345 

data, limitations to use of— J. W. Powell. (E. 1880) 476 

inquiry, queries for — C. Darwin. (R. 1867) 215 

investigations in 1879—0. T. Mason. (R. 1879) 345,420 

measurements, table of — Scherzer ; Sciiwarz. (R. 1866) 214 

publications, list of C. Rau's. (P. 18811 467 

Society of Paris, transactions of— P. Broca. (R. 1868) 224 

Society of Vienna, address ou ancient history of North America — M. Much, 

(R. 1871) 249 

Society of Washington — 

abstracts of transactions 502 

Transactions — 

Vol.1 501 

Vol. II 544 

Vol. Ill 630 

Anthropology — 

account of progress in — 0. T. Mason — 

1880. (R. 1880) 442,432 

188L (R. 1881) 515,488 

1882. CR. 1882) 540,534 

1883. (R. 1883) 593,583 

1884. (R. 1884) 623,618 

1885. (R. 1885) 649,640 

articles on. (R. 1879) 345 



648 CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 

Anthropology — Continued. 

bibliography of— O. T.Mason. (R. 1880) 442,432 

index to Smithsonian papers on — G. 11. Boehmkr. (R. 1871)) 34r),421 

niiscellaueons itapei's relating to — 

1881. (R. 1881) 515,481 

1882. (R. 1882) 540,535 

1883. (R. 1883) 593,588 

1834. (R. 1884) ...023,620 

188.'). (R. 1885) ....049,646 

Anthias vivanus, new species lioni Pensacola, Fla., description of — D. S. Jor- 
dan ; J. Swain. (P. 1884) OO? 

An thus — 

cerviuus (Pallas) iu Lower California— R. Ridgway. (P. 1883) 548 

Stejnegeri, description of. (P. 1883) ,548 

Anticosti, island of, birds of, list of the — L. M. Turner. (P. 1885) G50 

Antigua— catalogue of Ober's collection of birds of— G. N. Lawrence. (P. 1878). 332 
Antilles — 

Lesser, new honey creepers from, description of — R. Ridgway. (P. 1885).. 050 

maritime disasters of the. (R. 18G7) 050 

Antiquarian Society, American. Antiquities of Wisconsin 70 

Autiquities — 

aboriginal, contributions of, to Museum, circular relating to— C. Rau. (P. 

1883) 548,572 

aborigines of Texas— A. R. Roessler. (R. 1881) 481, 515 

California, Santa Rosa Island — S. Bowers. (R. 1877) 323 

Colorado, Jefferson and Clear Creek Counties — G.L.Cannon. (R. 1877) .. 323 

Colorado, Weld County— E. L. Berthoud. (R. 1871) 249 

Connecticut, East Windsor — E. W. Ellsworth. (R. 1881) 481,515 

Denmark, preservation of— .1. J. A. Worsaae. (R. 1879) 345 

department of, National Museum, report of Curator for 1884. (R. 1884) 048 

Florida— J. Baktram. (R. 1874) 286 

Florida-A. Mitchell. (R. 1874) 286 

Georgia, Spalding County— W. B. F. Bailey. (R. 1877) 323 

Guatemala— G. Williamson. (R. 1870) 299 

Guatemala, Pantaleon-C. E. Vreeland; J. F. Bransford. (R. 1884).. 623, 619 

Guesde collection of— O. T. Mason. (R. 1884) 023,621 

Hungary, prehistoric— F. F. Romer. ( R. 1870) 299, 440, 392 

lUrnois, Fox River Valley, La Salle County— W. Hector Galk. (R. 1881). 481, 515 

Illinois, Jackson County— G. H. French. (R. 1881) 481,515 

Knox County— M. A. McClelland. (R. 1881) 481, 515 

Lawrence County — A. Patton. (R. 1873) 275 

Mason County — J. Cochrane. (R.1877) 323 

Rock Island County — A. Toellner. (R. 1879) 345 

Union County- T. M. Perrine. (R. 1873) 275 

Wayne County— H. F. Sibley. (R. 1881) 481, 515 

Whitesides County— W. H. Pratt. (R. 1874) 286 

Antiquities — C. Rau. Report on Department of Anti({iiities, National 

Museum for 1885. (R. 1885, ii) 054 

Indiana, Allen and DeKalb Counties— R. S. Robertson. (R. 1874) 286 

Indiana, Knox County— A. P.\tton. (E. 1873) 275 

Indiana, Laporte County — R. S. Robertson. (R. 1874) 286 

Iowa, Mills County- Seth Dean. (R. 1881) 481, 515 

Kentucky— S. S. Lyon. (R. 1858) 109 

Kentucky, Hancock County — J. Friel. (R. 1877) 323 

Maryland, Charles Couuty—0. N. Bryan. (K. 1874) 286 



CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. G49 

Aiiti(]nitie,s — Coiitimu'u. 

Maiyliuid, Washington Cdunty— Joiix P. Smith. (R. 1S82) 53;'), 540 

Mexico, Vera Cruz— H. Finck. (K. 1870) 244 

Michigan, Islo RoyaU;— A. C. Davis. (R. 1874) 28G 

Mississippi River and Lake Pepin— L. C. Estes. (R. 18G6) 214 

Mississippi, Yazoo Connty— J. W. C. Smith. (R. 1874) 286 

Missonri and Tennessee — I. Dillk. (R. 18(32) 150 

Missonri, Kansas Cify—W. II. R. Lykins. (R. 1S77) tjo;} 

New Mexico— W. B. LYox. (R. 1871) 24<.) 

New York, Onondaga and adjoining connties in— W. M. BF..\i;(ir.\Mi'. (R. 

18SI) 481,515 

New York, Orleans Connty— F. H. CusuiXG. (R. 1874) 28G 

Nicaragna, Oinetepe— Ciiaki.ks C. Nutting. (R. 1883) 588,593 

Nicaragna— E. G. Squieu. (R. 1850) og 

North Carolina, Lenoir County -.J. M. Spainhour. (R. 1871) 249 

North Carolina, Stanley and Montgomery Connties in— F. J. Khox. (R. 1874). 28G 

Nova Scotia— Rev. Gkorge Pattersox. (R. 1881) 4-^1,515 

Ohio— G, W. Hill. (R. 1874) 28G 

Ohio, Perry County— W. Anoersox. (R. 1874) 28G 

Ohuntz pile-work. (R. 186G) 214 

I'ennsylvania, Southwestern— Rev. IIorack Haydex. (R. 1881) 4^1,515 

Porto Rico, Latimer collection— O. T. Masox. (R. 187G) 299,397 

Southern States — TI. C.Williams. (R. 1870) 244 

Tennessee — 

W.M.Clark. (R. 1878) 323 

E. O. DuxxiXG. (R. 1870) 244 

J. Jo.XES 259 

R. S. ROBERTSOX. (R. 1877) 323 

D. F. Wright. (R. 1874) 286 

Blount County— Miss A. E. Law. (R. 1874) 286 

Jackson County— J. IIaxle ; J. W. McHexry. (R. 1874) 286 

United States, proposed map of— A. J. Hill. ( R. 18GI ) 149 

Wisconsin— I. A. Lapiiam 70 

Wisconsin — M. Strox*;. (R. 1877) 323 

Antiquity in — 

Europe, the study of high— A. Morlot. (R. 18112 ; R. 18G4) 150, 188 

United States, vestiges of— S. F. Havkx 71 

Antozoneand ozone— C. M. Wetherill. (R. 1864) 188, 355 

Apaches, Tonto, notes on the— C. Smart. (R. 18G7) 215 

Aphododeridfc, notes on — D. S. Jordax 306 

Antlers, abnormal, of Virginia deer- F. W. True. (P. 1883) 548 

Ai)horistia — 

dioraedeana, description of— G. B, Goode ; T. H. Beax. (P. 1885) G50 

pusilla, description of— G. B. Goode; T. H. Beax. (P. 1885) 650 

Apodichthys— Jordax ; Gilbert. (P. 1880) 425 

Apogou jiandionis, description of— G. B. Goode ; T. II. Beax. (P. 1881) 467 

Apparatus — 

available for research, list of. (R. 1878) 341 

blow-pipe— HAWKIX3 and Wale. ( R. 1872) 271 

for testing perspiration and respiration — Pettexkofer. (R. 1864) 188 

letter rela-tive to gift of— R. Hare. (R. 1848) I 

Appropriations — See Executive Committee reports. 

for Museum, memorial of regents asking for. (R. 18G7) 215,329 



G50 CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 

Aquatic — 

birdsof the United States at Loudon FisLeries Exbibitiou iu 1883, catalogue 

of— K. EiDGWAY 511,521,553 

mammals of the United States at the London Fisheries exhibition in 1883, 
catalogue of— F. W. Teue 511,521,562 

Aqueous vapor, diminution of, -with altitude — J, Hann. (R. 1877) 323,31)8 

Aracbnida of Arctic America — S. IT. Scudder 342 

AUAGO, F.— 

Aeronautic voyages. (R. 18G3) 187 

Autobiography. (R. 1870) 244 

Biography of Condorcet. (R. 1878) 341 

Eulogy on — 

AmpJsre. (R. 1872) 271 

Fourier, Joseph. (R. 1871) 249 

Gay-Lussac. (R. 187G) 299 

Herschel. (R. 1870) 244 

La Place. (R. 1874) 286 

Volta, Alex. (R. 1875) , 298 

Young, Thomas. (R. 1860) 228 

Archajological — 

Academy of Belgium, Archaiological Congress organized by. (R. 1866) 214 

collection of the U. S. National Museum — C. Rau 287 

Congress, International, Antwerp. (R. 1866) 214 

investigations, instructions for— G. Gibbs. (R. 1861) 149,160 

map of the District of Columbia — L. P. Kengla 537 

researches at Concise— F. Troyon*. (R. 1861) 149 

researches in Nicaragua — J. F. Braxsford 383 

study of j ado— S. Blondel. (R. 1876) 299 

Archaeology — 

circular relative to American 316 

French Society of, International Congress organized by. (R. 1866) 214 

general views on— A. Morlot. (R. 1860; R. 1861) 147,149 

Mexican — B. Mayer 86 

North American — J. Lubbock. (R. 1862) 150 

of the United States— S. F. Haven. 71 

prehistoric, international code of symbols for charts of. (R. 1875) 298 

and ethnology, circular for collecting specimens of 205 

Architect's report — 

B. S. Alexander. (R. 1854)... 75,329 

A. Cluss. (R. 1867) 215,329 

for 1879- Cluss and Schulze. (R. 1879) 345, 409 

for 1880— Cluss AND Schulze, (R, 1880) 442,434 

for 1881— Cluss and SciiULZE. (R. 1881) 515 

for 1884— Cluss AND Scuulze. (R. 1884) 623 

Architecture — 

hints on public — R. D. Owen P 

iu relation to ventilation, warming, lighting, fire-proofing, acoustics, and 

the general preservation of health— D. B. Reid. (R. 1856) 91 

Arctic — 

Alaska, new species of Crustacea from, description of — J. Murdoch. (P. 

1884) 607 

algaj, list of— W. II. Harvey 95 

America, natural history of — L. Kumlien 342 

atmospheric pressure — T. I. Hayes 196 

auroras— P. Force 84 



CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. G51 

Arctic — Continued. 

expedition, Howgatc — L. KrMi.ir.x •. 342 

explorations, lecture on — 1. 1. Hayks. {II. \^ij\) Ill) 

latitudes and longitudes — E. K. Kane 1*29 

observations — ^See Force, Hall, Hayes, Kane, Kunilien, MeClintoek, Scliott. 

regions, limpets, and chitons of, report on — W. H. Dall. (P. 187i^) 382 

regions, record of voyage of yacht Fux 146 

Boas — 

astronomical observations — E. K. K axe 129 

niagnetical observations — E. K. Kane 97 

meteorological observations — E. K. Kane 104 

meteorological observations — F. L. McClintock 146 

physical observations in — I. I. Hayes 196 

physical observations in — E. K. Kane 198 

tidal observations — E. K. Kane 130 

temperature — I. I. Hayes I'JO 

winds— I. I. Hayes 196 

Areuicola glacialis, new species, from Arctic Alaska, description of — J. Miu- 

DOCic. (P. 1884) 607 

Argentina syrtensium, new deep-sea fish— GOODE and Bean. (P. 1878) ."3:52 

Argentine Republic, astronomical observatory — B.A.Gould. (R. 187!)) 27.5 

Ariopsis Milberti, breeding habits of— N. T. Lurxox. (P. 1878) 332 

Arizona — 

ancient ruin in— J. C. Y. Lee. (R. 1872) 271 

collections from, illustrated catalogues of — J. Stevenson. (E. 18-0-'rtl ; 

E. 1881-'82).-.. .>12,631 

explorations in — J. Stevenson. (R. 13c0) 442 

Pima County, ruins in— R. T. BURU. (R. 1879) 345 

Pima Indians of— F. E. Grossman. (R. 1871) 249 

Tonto Apaches of— C. Smart. (R. 1867) 215 

White River Canon, ancient remains in — R. T. Bron. (R. 1882) 540 

Arkansas — 

cretaceous fossils from — C. A. White. (P. 1881) 467 

earthworks in — Mrs. G. Knapp. (R. 1877) 323 

Independence County, moundsin— Dr. A. Jones. (R. 1881) 481,515 

invertebrate fossils from— C. A. White. (P. 1880) 425 

Johnson County, ancient rock inscriptions in — Edward Green. (1.'. 

1S81) 4^1,515 

meteorological observations near Washington — N. D. Smith 131 

Phillips County, ancient pottery — J. H. Devereux. (R. 1872) 271 

Armstrong, T. Mounds in Winnebago County, Wis. (R. 1879) 345 

Arrangements, business, of the Smithsonian Institution 325 

Arrow-heads — 

deposit of, near Fishkill, N. Y.— E. M. Sherard. (R. 1877) 323 

Indian niode of making and obtaining fire — G. Ci:ooic. (R. 1871) 249 

Arrows, lectures on wounds of poisoned — D. BrainArd. (R. 1854) '•> 

Arsenic acid for protecting anatomical preparations — J. B. S. Jackson. (P. 

1878) 332 

Art- 
aboriginal, a supposed specimen of — .J. F. Matthew. (R. 1881)..- 481, Slu 

ceramic, development of form and ornament in — W. H. Holmes 6;y^ 

in shell of the ancient Americ.ans-H. W Holmes. (E. 1880-'8l) 542 

on tables of constants of natun; and — C. Barrage. (R. 1856) 91 

Gallery, Corcoran — 

deed of gift of. (R. 1872) 271.329 



652 CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 

Art — Continued. 

deposits in, by Smithsonian Instituhon. (R. 1874) 286 

report of Committee of Rcfjents on. (K. 1872) 271,329 

Artedias fenestralis, description of —D. S. Jordan ; C. H. Gilbert (P. 1882)... 518 
Arteries, reparatoiy inflammation in. Toner lecture No. vii — E. O. Shake- 

SPEAKE 321 

Artesian well at San Bernardino, dil., Gasterosteus williamsoni in, noic on— II. 

Smith. (P. 188;?) Tj-IB 

Artificial sliell deposits — 

in New Jersey— C. Rait. (R. 18G4) 188,440,352 

of tbe United Stii.te8—D.G.BRiNTON. (R. ISBG) 214 

Artisan and artist, identification of the — N. Wiseman. (R. 1870) 244 

Artisans, scientific education of mechanics and — A. P. Peaijody. (R. 1872). 271, 380 

Arts, chemical, recent improvements in — J. C. Booth; C. Morkit 27 

Ascelicthys rhodorus — Jordan and Gilbert. (P. 1880) 425 

Ascensions — Sec Balloons. 

Ashland County, Ohio, mounds and earthworks in — 11. B. Case. (R. 1881). .481, 515 

Aspidophoroids, new species, description of — T. H. Bean. (P. 1885) 650 

Assay of coins at mint of the United Statfts— J. Pollock. (R. 1868). 224 

Assistant director's rejiort of the National Museum for — 

1881 515,510 

1882 .540,524 

1883 593, 587 

1884 048,648 

Astaida^, list of, in the National Museum— W. Faxon. (P. 1885) 650 

Asteroid supplement to new tables — J. D. Runkle 94 

Asteroids between Mars and Jupiter — D. Kiukwood. (R. 1876) 299 

Astronomical — 

announcements, correspondence on. (R. 1883) .593 

discoveries, telegraphic annouuceraeuts of — J. Henry 263 

observations — 

W. Harkness 239 

Arctic— I. I. Hayes 196 

discussion of Piazzi's—B. A. Gould. (R. 1863) 187 

in the Arctic Seas— E. K. Kane 129 

observations — 

list of— G. H. BoEHMER. (R. 1885) 649,536 

repoits of— E. S, Holden; G. H. Boehmer. (R. 1880) 442,438 

reports of, 1879— E. S. Holden. (R. 1879; 345,410 

reports of, 1880— E. S. Holden; G. II. Boehmer. (R. 1880) 442,438 

observatory at Cordoba, Argentine Republic, account of— B. A. Gould. (R. 

1873) 275 

photography, progress of— Dr. Lee. (R. 1861) 149 

tables— J. D. Runkle 79,94 

telegram circular— J. IIenuy 263 

Astronomy — 

account of progress in — 
E. S. Holden— 

1879 and 1880. (R. 1880) 442,427 

1881. (R. 1881) 515,483 

1882. (R. 1882) 540,525 

1883. (R. 1883) ,593.574 

1884. (R. 1881) 623,609 

\V. C. WiNLOCK— 1885. ( R. 1885) 649, 641 

lecture on— A. Caswell. (R. 18.58) 109 



CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 653 

Astroscopus, Bpccies of, lu Eastern United States — T. IT. I}i:an. (P. 1879) :533 

Atlierina anva, iie\r species, deseii]itioii ol" — ]J. S. Jokuan ; V. U. GiLUicirr. (P. 

1S«4) C07 

Atlantic coast — 

microscopic examination uC sonndinKs — J. W. 15aii,i;v 20 

uew fishes from — G. P. Gdodk ; T. II. Bkan. (P. 168.")) 050 

Atlantic, Lowe's aeronautic voyage across. (K. 1800) 147 

Atlas, pliysical, of North America, proposed — G. Gibus. (R. Idlid) 214 

Atmosphere — 

currents of the, and aerial navigation — J. Henij v. ( K. IHlJO) 147 

diminution of aqueous vapor with altitude— J. ILvNX. {It. 1H77) :w;5, 398 

plan of research upon— C. M. Wkthkiull. (K. 18GI)) 214 

vegetation and the — J. Jamix. (R. 1804) Ibb 

Atmospheric — 

circulation over the earth, laws of — J. 11, Coffin 2CS 

currents, relation between barometric variations and— JI. Pkslix. (R. 

1877) ..:i23, 398 

electricity— M. V. Ui'1m;kz, (R. 1858) 1()|) 

pressure — 

and rain-fall— J. IIaxx. (R. 1877) 32:5,398 

Arctic — I. I. Hayes I'JG 

Arctic — E. K. Kane 104 

Arctic — F. L. McCmxtock 146 

Atomic — 

volume, bibliography of— F. "\V. Clarke 255 

weight determinations — G. F. Becker 358 

weights, recalculation of — F. W. Clarke 441 

Atoms, J. Herschel. (R. 1862) 150 

Atropia, intluence of, on the heart — II. G. Beyer. (P. 1885) 050 

AtthisEIlioti, a humming-bird from Guatemala — R. Ridgway. (P. 1878) 3:i2 

Auriculacea of the eastern United States, revision of the— W. H. Ball. (P. 1885) 050 
Aurora — 

and electricity— S. LemstrCim ; A. A. De La Rive. (R. 1874) 280 

Borealis, its phenomena and laws — E. LooMis. (R. 1805) 2UD, 584 

connection of galesof -wind and — R. T. KxiGUT. (R. 1871) 24'J 

directions for observing — J. Hexry. R. 1855 77 

effect of, on magnetic declination — A. D. Baciie 175 

iulluence of, on the telegraph — W. D. Sargent. (R. 1870) 244 

instructions for observations of — Toronto Observatory 148 

magnetic elfect of — A. D. Baciie 175 

map of stars for observations on 350 

observations on — S. Masterman. (R. 1857) 107 

phenomena in telegraphic lines during — G. B. Donati. (R. 1.-572) 271 

recent secular period of — D. Olmsted 81 

Auroras — 

articles on, received by the institution. (R. 1871 ; R. 1874) 241), 280 

records of, in high northern latitudes — P. Force 84 

Australian group relations— A. W. IIowitt. (R. 1883) , 588,51)3,596 

Autobiography, the history of my youth — F. Arago. (R. 1870) 244 

AuxisRochei, frigate mackerel, ou New England coast — G. B. Goode. (P. 1880) 425 

Avifauna Columbiana — E. Coues; D. W. Prentiss 500 

Awards to Smithsonian Institution at the Ceutenuial Exhibition. (R. 187ti; 

R. 1878) 2W,34I 



654 CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 

Axolotl — 

cliaijged to amblystoina— A. Weismann. (R. 1877) *. '32^, 401 

notes ou the habits aud the reariug of — T. H. Bean. (1'. 18S2) 518 

Aykks, Dr. Notes on fishes. (P. 1880) 425 

B. 

Babijage, C— 

extracts from writings of. (R. 1873) 275 

memoir of— N. S. Dodge, (li. 1873) 275 

on constants of nature anil art. (R. 185G) 91 

Barinrt, J. — 

The diamond and other precious stones. (R. 1870) 214,377 

the uortheru seas. (R. 18G9) 228 

BAcms, A. D. — 

Bequest to National Academy of Sciences. (R. 1872) 271, 329 

discussion of magnetic aud meteorological observations — 

Part I 113 

Part II 121 

I'art III 132 

I'arts IV, V, VI 162 

Parts VII, VIII, IX 175 

Parts X, XI, XII 186 

Parts i-xii 195 

eulogy on James A. Poarce. (R. 1802) 1,^0 

eulogy on— J. Henry. (R. 1870) 241,329,379 

lecture on Switzerland. (R. 1870) 244 

list of scientific papers of— B. A. Gould. (R. 187U) 244,329,379 

magnetic survey of Pennsylvania 166 

notice of James P. Espy. (R. 1859) 110 

notice of G. Wurdemann. (R. 1859) 110 

Baciie, G. M. Hail-storm in Texas. (R. 1870) 244 

Bacteria, putrefactive, action of dry heat and sul}»luuousacid upon. (!'. 1881) 407 
Baegkrt, J. Aboriginal inhabitants of California peninsula. (R. 1863; R. 

1864) 187,188,440,361 

Baffin's Bay, meteorological observations in — F. L. McClintock 146 

Bahama Islands, Carolina, Florida and, Catesby's Natural History of, figures 

of fishes in identification of— D. S. Jordan. (P. 1884) C07 

Bailev, J. W.— 

alga) S3 

diatomacca 23,63 

infusoria 23 

microscopical examination of soundings, Atlantic coast 20 

microscopical observations in South Carolina, Georgia, Florida 23 

now species and localities of microscopical organisms 63 

Bailey, W. B. F. Antiquities of Spalding County, Ga. (R. 1877) 323 

Baird, S. F.— 

alphabetical index of genera of birds 108 

arrangement of families of birds 210 

bibliography of— G. B. Goode 508 

catalogue of North American birds octavo, 108 ; quarto, 106 

catalogue of North American mammals 105 

Circular — 

concerning department of insects. (P. 1881) 467,448 

in reference to building-stone collection. (P. 1831) 467,453 

in reference to petroleum collections. (P. 1881) 467,447 

in reference to shipping fresh fish and other animals 384 



CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 055 

Bauu), S. F.— CoutinutMl. 

relative to scientific and litoniry cxclian<^e8 324 

requesting material fur tlie library of the National iMiisenni. (lM.S.sl).,l(i7, 458 

to friends of the Mnsenm. (P. 18K1) ,^^•~ ^^g 

directions for collecting, preservin-;, and transporting specimens of natural 

history. (K. 1H.')G) .,j 3^ 

fishes on the coasts of Now Jersey and Long Island. (R. l>^'y\) 7,-. 348 

instrnctions for collecting insects. (U. 1858) Ki'j 

instrnctions for collecting nests and eggs of North American birds. (K. 

^^'^^) 10;t, 139 

leiuling of typo specimens. (P. 1886) 637 

list of explorations furnishing collections to National Mnsenm, 1838 to 1877 

(R.1H77) :.o;. 

list of sources from which specimeua have been derived, IHiiS to l8t)7. (K. 

18(57) 2l'j 

monioranda of inquiry relative to food lislies 231 

Museum miscellanea 164 

notes on aboriginal shell-mounds on coast of New Ihiinswick and of New 

England. (P. 1881) ^07 

notes on Henry's researches on sound. (K. 1^78) ;!41_ 406 

on reports of recent scientific jirogress. (IJ. 188U-l88r>) .41;.', .51"), filO, HD:*, {'rS,], (Ml) 

questions relative to food fishes 234 

register of periodical phenomena 65, 148 

report of Secretary for — 

1878. (R. 1878) :Mi,408 

1879. (K. 1879) :!4r,, 410 

1880. (R. 1880 j 442,419 

188'1. (R. 1881) r,l.->,479 

1882. (R. 1882) r, 1(1, 520 

188-3. (R. 188:$) .• .7,):{,5a6 

1884. (R.1884) (ri:!, 608 

1885. (R. 1885) t;49, 629 

1885-SG. (R. 1886) 651 

report on Centennial Exhibition. (R. 187(;) "99,307 

rejiort on and statistics of British Museum. (11.1^50) 28 

report on plan of exhibit at the International Exhibition at I'hiiadelphia. 

(R. 18;5) 2'J8 

reports on publications, exchanges, explorations, and Museum, 1851-1877. 

(R. 1851-1877) 51,. 57, 67, 75, 77, 91, 107, 109, 110, 147, 149, 150, 187, 188, 

•209, 214, 215, 224, 228, 244, 249, 271, 275, 2SC, 298, 299, :w:5 

review of American birds. Pa.it I. North and Middle America 181 

scientific instructions to Captain Hall. (R. 1871) 219 

scientific investigations in Russian America. Natural history 207 

Baird, S. F. ; GiKAKD, C. Catalogue of North American reptiles. Part 1 49 

Balfouu, J. The wind and fog. (R. 1866) 214 

Balloon ascensions, account of — J. Glaisiieu. (R. 1863) 187 

See also Aeronautics. 
Baltzkix, J. Winds in Florida. (R. 1866) iJI4 

Bancroft, G. — 

memorial to Congress for new Museum building. (R. 1876) 299 

on publication of Spanish works on Now Mexico. (R. 1855) 77 

Bannister, II. M. — 

climate of Alaska. (R. 1866) i^M 

formation of clouds over Gulf Stream. (R. 1866) 214 

Banta W. v. ; Garrktson, John. Mounds at Snake Den, near Salem, Henry 

County, Iowa. (R. 1881) 515,481 



656 CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 

Baptist Missionary Society. Yoruba grammar aud dictionary 98 

Baubek, Geougk W. Mound near the National Home, Milwaukee County, 

Wis. (R. 1881) 515,481 

Barbuda, catalogue of Ober's collection of birds of— G. N. Lawrence. (P. 1878). 33a 
Bakkek, G. F.— 

Account of progress in chemistry and physics. 1881. (R. 1881) 515,485 

Account of progress in physics — 

(R. 1880) 442,429 

1882. (R.1882) .540,529 

1883. (R. 1883) 593,578 

1884. (R. 1884) 623,613 

1885. (R. 1885) 049,638 

Recent progress in chemistry. (R. 1880) 442,429 

Barnard, F. A. P. Lectures on the undulatory theory of light. (R. 1862) 150 

Barnard, J. G. — 

Eulogy on General .Joseph G. Totten. (R. 1865) 209 

Internal structure of the earth ,. 310 

Problems of rotary motion 240 

Barnard, V. Birds of Chester County, Pa. (R. 1860) 147 

Barnstable County, Mass., shell-heaxis in — Daniel Wing. (R. 1881) 515,481 

Barometer — 

account of Green's. (R. 1885) 77,148 

Green's standard 148 

horary variations of the— F. Vaillant; J. Henry. (R. 1866) 214 

inOuence of rain upon the— J. Hann. (R. 1877) 323,398 

rain aud snow gauges — R.H.Gardiner. (R. 1858) 109 

tables, on construction of— F. F. Tuckett. (R. 1867) 215 

tube breaking suddenly— L. F. Ward. (R. 1866) 214 

tubes, on tilling— J. Green ; W. WOrdemann. (R. 1859) 110 

Barometers — 

at the Kew Observatory, verification of— J. Welsh. (R. 1859) 110 

experiments on aneroid — B.Stewart. (R. 1868) 224 

Barometric — 

minima and rain-fall— J. T. Reye. (R. 1877) 323,398 

observations, discussion of Snell's — F. II. Loud. (R. 1880) 442,435 

observations, results of 157 

variations and atmospheric currents, relation between — M. Peslin. (R. 

1877) 323,398 

Barometrical tables — A. GUYOT 153 

Barrandt, a. — 

Ancient earthworks on the Upper Missouri, (R. 1870) 244 

Haystack Mound, Dakota. (R. 1872) 271 

Barren County, Ky., mounds iu — R.B.Evans. (R. 1881) 515,481 

Bartlett, J. R. On publication of Squier and Davis's Ancient Monuments. 

(R. 1847) H,K 

Bartram, J. Antiquities of Florida. (R. 1874) 286 

Bascanium Uagelliforme bicinctum, new subspecies, description of— H. C. Yar- 
row. (P. 1683) .548 

Base chart of the United States— C. A. Schott 414 

Bases — 

ammonia-cobalt, researches on — W. Gibrs ; F. A. Gentii 88 

organic— A. Bauer. (R. 1872) 271 

Basket-work of the North American Aborigines — O.T.Mason. (R. 1884, u) 648 

Bass, striped — 

no^e on scientific name of — D.S.Jordan. (P. 1885) 6J;0 

occurrence of, in Lower Mississippi Valley — T. II. Dean. (P. 1884) 607 



CATALOGUK OF I'lMILlCATlONS. 057 

l';i,ss()zfliis if,)iiii;ilis, now s^uHiis and spr-cic^ of, syii()i)sis of — T. Gill. (P. 1881?) r>l8 
Jjiitaviau Society of ExixTimoiiial riii'osojihy, Kot tcrdaiiL Prize; (iiicst ions. 

(1-i- If^ol) ". 11'.) 

P.atli and W'ost of Englaud Soi-ioty for l-2}iconraj;Hni<Mit of Aj;ricultnri', Arts o;c. 

F.Kcliaugos. (R. 18()7) 21.') 

15atliy,i;ailii.s — 

cavornosiis, dt'SL'iiption of — U. I!. (iouoK'; T. 11. P>!:ax. (P. IS.-^f)) G.'iO 

longililis, description of — C!. B. GoODK ; 1'. II. 13ka\. (P. 18--.")) C.-.o 

uiacrops, d«scriptff)n of— G. 15. Goooi: ; 'l'. II. Hk.xn. (^P. IHs.')) (i.-,(j 

Biitliyonus — 

catena, doscriptiou of — G. P. Gooni: : T. II. Plan'. (!'. iss,')) O.-y 

pcctoratis, desci'ii)tion of— -G. P. Gooni;; T. II. I)1:an'. (P. 188.')) (;,",0 

Palis nuuitinia — J. Tokkev 60 

Patracliia and Reptilia, North Anuuican, clicck listof— II. G. Vai;i;()\v .. ... I'.);;. 517 
Batracliians, d<>'parlnient of— .Sec K'x^ptiics. 

Batratdiia, North AnKirican— P. 1). Gopk 292 

Bats- 
account of reniarkabh) accnninlation of — M. Fi(iA.\li".i;K. (1\. ISfv!) 187 

of North America, monograph of — II. Allkn 165 

Pauki;, A. Organic bases. (R. 187'J) -JTl 

P)ay ofFnndy, uiarino iuvertebrata of— ^^'. SrLMi'.sox -,o 

PayfieUl, Wis., copper inipleniputa from— G. Wiiitii.kskv. R. 188.")) l)4.'>, Ci-Itl 

Pdellostomida', notes on — T. GiLL. (P. l-SJ) " f,l,S 

Bead- 
colored, from a mound at Black Ilauinioci^, Fla. — A. ]\I. IlAiniLsox. (H. 

1877) :;-j:; 

polychrome, from Florida— S. S. Halde.max. {\i. 1877) .ys\.'iO''x 

Pkax, T. IL— 

catalogue of lishes of the United States at the London Fisherit's lv\hil)ilion 

in 1883 .')11,.'.-Jl,556 

check-'.ist of iishes di.'^tributed l)y Smit lisoniaii Institution. (P. 18S0) .I'.;.") 

collectiun of lichens by, in Alaska, list of, and notes njjon— .1. 1". KoriimxK. 

(P. 1884) (107 

Description of — 

anew hake {I'liycin Eavl'ti, and note on Phiimn rcyins. (P. 1880) .IxJf) 

genera and species of Ahiskan lishes. (P. 1871)) '.\'.V.\ 

now lish from Alaska, AuarrhUhas Icplitru-s, and notes on genus. ( I'. 187'.)) :>:>:! 

new lishes from Alaska and Siberia. (P. 1881) 4t)7 

species of lishes collected bj'- Duges in Mexico. (P. 187'.)) :5;!:5 

new s[»aroid lish, Sar(/us Holhrookii, from Savannah b.inlc. (P. 1878) .. :5;>2 

new species of Alepidusuiirus from Alaska. ( P. 18.~>"J) 518 

new species of Aminrus from the Mississippi. (P. 187'.)) 'S.Vi 

uvw tivmch^ii ot^ Aapidophoroidcs {A. giiHthcrii) horn Alaska. (P. 18S.")).. (JoO 

new species of Gatitcrosfetts from Schoodic Lakes, Mainc^ (P. 187".)) :>:!;! 

new species «f Pcmnhcriti {rcmphcrls poeiji) from Cuba. (P. 188.')) 6b0 

new species of lishes ( Uraiiidea marginaia and Polamocotliis hcudini) 

and of Mi/clopli uiii, crot tihire. (P. 1881) U)7 

new species of ricclronuis {r.cra8.siccpfi), taken by the U. S. Fish Gnni- 

uiission. (P. 188.')) tJ^O 

new species of whitelisli {I'nyrijoiius lulsoiiii), from Alaska. (P. 1884). .. ()07 
species of whitelisli, Cornxjonu^ ]io;ii ((_!ill) Jordan, called "Smelt." 

(P. 1882) r.l8 

spi^cies of Lijcodcfi ( L. fnrncri) from Alaska. ( P. I -(78) 'SM 

I'll i/nicnl 118 fiilous and Lnlclhi marilUtris, ni-w species of lislies collected 

i!i 1881 by the U. S. Fish Gomniission. (P. 18-1) CO? 

directions for collecting and iireserving lish. (P. 18S1) ,...41)7, 464 

n. Mis. 170 42 



658 CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 

Beax, T. H.— Coulinued. 

fishes of Arctic America. (Bull, l.j, U. S. National Museum) 34'i 

identity of Etichalarodus putnami with rieuronectes gldber and notes on 

habits. (P. 1878) 332 

list of JCuropean fishes in National Museum. (P. 1879) 333 

StoaaodoH narinari, Euphrasen. (P. l88o) 650 

occurrence of a Silver Lamprej' {Ichihijomyzon Castaneus) in Louisiana. 

(P. 1832) 518 

collection of (ishcs from eastern Georgia. (P. 1879) 333 

Catalogue of a collection of birds made at various points along the western 
can coast of Lower California, north of Cape St. Eugenio— L. Bklding. 

(P. 1882) 518 

Catalogue of a collection of birds made near the southern extremity of the 

peninsula of Lower California— L. Belding. (P. 1882) 518 

List of birds found at Guaymas, Sonora, in December, 1882, and April, 1883— 

L. Belding. (P.1&83) 548 

On a collection of birds from the hacienda " La Palma," Gulf of Nicoya, Costa 

Rica, with critical notes by Robert Ridgway— C. C. Nutting. (P. 1882) 518 

On a collection of birds from Nicaragua— C. C. Nutting. (P. 1883) 548 

holes on — 

a collection of fishes mi\de in 1882 and 1883 by Capt. Henry E. Nichols, 
U. S. Navy, in Alaska and British Columbia, with a description of a 

new genus and species, rrionisiius maceUus, (P. 1883) 548 

birds collected in Alaska and Siberia. (P. 1882) 518 

Epinepliel'is nigritus, Cmilolatilns mlcrops, and Coryphwna /nj^jjwrus. See 

also under GOODE and Bean. (P. 1885) 6.'>0 

fishes collected by Captain Bendiroiu Washington Territory and Oregon. 

(P. 1882) 518 

fishes collected by H. E. Nichols in British Columbia and Alaska, with 

descriptions of new species and new genus (DeJolepis). (P. 1681) 467 

iishesfrom Hudson's Bay. (P. 1881) 467 

lishes observed at the head of Chesapeake Bay in the spring of 1882, and 

upon other species of the same region. (P. 1833) 548 

some fishes collected by James G. Swan in Washington Territory, in- 
cluding a new species of Macrurus (acrolepis). (P. 1883) 548 

0«curreuce of Hippoglossus vulgaris in Alaska. (P. 1679) 333 

Occurrence of Siichceus punctaius at St. Michaels, Alaska. (P. 1878) 332 

On Stathmonolus, a new genus of fishes related to Murwnoides from Florida 

(with Plato XIII)- (P. 1885) 6.-)0 

On t\io identity of Cotlus maculatus Fisher, with Cotius luhaJis Euphrasen. 

(P. 1885) 650 

On the occurrence of Hadropierus aurantiacus (Cope) in the French Broad 

River, North Carolina. (P. 1885) 650 

On the occurrence of the striped bass in the Lower Mississippi Valley. 

See also under Goode and Bean. (P. 1884) 607 

Partial bibliography of fishes of Pacific coast of United States and Alaska 

for 1880. (P. 1881).. '^'i^ 

PrelimiHary catalogue of fishes of Alaskan waters. (P. 1881) 467 

report on department of fishes. National Museum, for 1834. (R. 1884, ii) 648 

r.port on department of fishes. National Museum, for 1885. R. 1885, ii) ()54 

Species of Astroscopus of eastern United States. (P. 1879) 333 

the first occurrence of rseudolrlacis microdon, Capello, on the coast of the 

United States. (P. 1883) ' 548 

Tianslation : Notes on the habits and the rearing of the exolose (Amhlifstoma 

mrxicaitum.) (P. l-^-'i) ^18 



CATALOGUK OF PUBLICA llONS. 659 

Bkax, 'J'arm;ton II.; Dukskl, II. G. A catalogue of li.shos receivcil from tlie 
PtiMic Museniii of the Institute of Jamaica, witli (loscriptious of Priii- 
Vipoma cqyproximans and Ti/IoHuriin cin-jiops, two new siiccics. (P. 1884) GOT 
Sic also under Goodo and Beau. 

Bear, ciunauion, from Pennsylvania — F. W. Tuik. (P. 18-'2) filS 

BEACCiiAMr, W. M., Antiquities of Onandaga a:i<l adjoining eounlit>s in Now 

York. (R. IftHl) 181, .^.If. 

Wampum belts of the Six X;itiona. ( P. 1871)) lUT) 

liKAUFORT, N. C. — 

liarbor, notes on fishes of — D. S. Jokdax; C. 11. Gn.Bi:i;r. (P. l-<78) 'S.',2 

library, deposit of, by E. M. Stanton. (K. ISlJi) 150 

notes on fishes of— D. S. .Touday. ( P. 1880) 42.") 

BriAUMOXT — See Do Beaumont. 

Bkautems-Beaupri5, C. F., memoir of, by Elir dk Bk-vumont. (R. 18,;;}) 187 

Beaver, on the habits of tlie — Fklix K. Brunot. (R. 187:5) -27 .j 

Beaver Island, Mich., natural Iiistory of— J. .1. StkaX(;. (K. IS51) 77) 

Becker, G. F. — 

Atomic weiglit determinations 358 

Constants of nature. Part iv .")()(;, 358 

P.KCKiiAM, Charles W. Remarks npi)n the piuniige of Rerjubis calendula. (P. 

1885) (i50 

DfiCQUEREL, A. E — 

Forests and their climatic indiieuce. (R. 18i)D) '228 

Preservation of copper and iron in salt water. (R. l-iHl) 188 

Beirut, Syria, account of sarconhagns from — A. A. IIarwood. (R. 1870) 211 

Bela haspa, new species, from the Point Barrow exi»edition— W. U. l)Ai.r,. (P. 

1884) (507 

Bela nnirdochiana, new species, from the Point Barrow expedition — \V. H. Dali,. 

(P. 1884) G07 

Beldixg, L. — 

additions to North American bird fauna by — R. Riugway. (P. LS-^l) 437 

Catalogue of a collection of birds from Lower California, nortii of Cape 

Saint Eugenio. (P. 1882) 518 

Catalogue of a collection of birds made near the soul lie rn ex.'remify of Lower 

California. (P. 1882) 518 

collection of birds frosii Capo Saint Eugenio, caialogne of -R. RiixiWAV. (P. 

1882) 518 

collection of birds from southern extremity of I^ower California, eatah'gue 

of— R. KiDGWAY. (P. 1882) 518 

collection of fishes, catalogue of— D. S. Jordan; C. II. Gilbert. (P. 1882) 518 
List of birds found at Guaymas, Souora, in December, 1882, and April, 188:5. 

(P. 1883) 548 

Partial list of birds of central California. (P. 1~78) :3;52 

Second catalogue of a collection of birds made near the southern extremity 

of Lower California. (Edited by R. Ridgway.) (P. 188:3) 548 

Belgium — See Prize questions. 

Arch;eology Academj' of, arclueology congress organized by. (R. 18(50) 214 

sociotj' of science, etc. — See Prize questions. 

Bell, James. Ancient mounds in Alachua County, Fla. (R. 1881) 481,515 

Belone — 

exilis, generic relations of— D. S. JoiiDAX; C. It. Gilbert. (P. 1880) 425 

latimanns, occurrence of, in Buzzard's Bay — G. 15. Goode. (P. 1^78) ;5:52 

Bendire, C^vpt. Charles E. — 

Circular No, 30, appendix ; a list of birds, the eggs of which are wanted to 
complete the series in the National Museum, with instructions for collect- 
ing eggs, (P, 1884) C07 



GGO CATALOGUE OF TUBLICATIOXS. 

Hea'diue, Capt. Ciiakles E. — CoutiDued. 

On the eastward distribution of the black-tailed <leer(CV(i /«£■«.'< coIiniibidiiKfi) 

(P. 1832) r)18 

fialies collected in Washington Territory and Oregon by, notes on — T. II. 

Bkax(P.1882) 518 

Notes on SahnonidcB of Columbia River. (P. l~:Sl) 467 

Benedict, J. E., Nye, W. Collection of birds made by— R. Ridgway. (P. 1-^84). 007 
Benthodesmus, a new genus of deep-sea fishes— G. B. Goode ; T. II. Bkan. (P. 

1881) • 407 

Beuthouectes — 

liiipes, new species, from Fish Commission dredging— S. I. Smith. (P. 1881) 007 

new genus, from Fish Commission dredging— S. I. Smith. (P. 1884) 007 

Be(juest — 

of A. D. Bache to National Academy of Sciences. (R. 187-2) 271, ',i2'j 

ofS. Habel. (R. 1879) :54r) 

of J. Hamilton to Smithsonian Institution. (R. 1872, R. 187:3) 271,275 

of Smithsou, act of Congress, July 1, 1830, acceptiag. (R. 1853) 07, N 

of Smithsou, exposition of— J. IIexky E 

of Smithsou, history of.... 328, 330 

Smithsou and his— W. J. Riiees. (R. 1879) 315, 330 

Berardius Bairdii, uew species, description of — L. Stejneger. (P. 1>'83) ... 548 

Bekexdt, C. H. — 

» Collection of historical documents in Guatemala. (-R. 1870) 299 

Explorations in Central America. (R. 1807) 215 

On the Carib language and people. (R. 1873) 275 

recommendation of, by British minister. (R. 1805) -09 

recommendation of, by Guatemalan minister. (R. 1805) 209 

recommendation of, by L.Molina, Costa Ricau minister. (R. 18u5) 209 

Beriug Islands — Sec Commander Ishxnds. 

Bering Sea, Bogosloff Island, new volcano on, hornblende audesil*;s from — G. 

P. Merrill. (P. 1885) 050 

Berks County, Pa., Potsdam sandstone or conglomerate from, note on — 0. P. 

Merrill. (P. 1882) 518 

Berlandier, L. Catalogue of collection of historical and geographical manu- 

script-s, maps, etc., of Mexico. (R. 1854) 75 

Berlin Fisheries Exhibition — 

additions to Museum from. (R. 1880) 442 

catalogue of United Sta'es' exhibit at — G. B. Goode 413 

Bermuda, birds of— T. Bl.\nd, J.R.Willis. (R. 1858) 109 

Bermudas — 

catalogue of fishes of— G. B. Goode 296 

fishes from, mistakenly described as new by Giinther— G. B. Goode. (P. 

1878) 332 

natural history of the, contributions to the — J.M.Jones; G-. B. Goode... 503, 5{;i. 

505, 5.')0, 507, 508, 509, 495 

new serranoid fish from— G. B. Goode ; T. 1 1. Bean. ( P. 1878 ; 332 

Bern Museum, request for bison. (R.1805) 209 

Beroids, relation of luceruariaus to — II. J. Clark 242 

Berrien County, Ga., mounds in— William J. Taylor. (R. 1881 ; R. 1883). .515, 481, 

593, 588 
Berrien J. McPiiERSON. Construction of act establi.shi jig Smithsonian. (R. 

1853) 07 

Bertiioud, E. L. — 

Ancient remains in Colorado. (R. 1807) 215 

Anticpiities of Colorado. (R. 1871) 249 

Bertiirand, M. Life and works of Kepler. ( R. 1809) 228 

BktiiunEjC.J. Acknowledgment of books. (R. 1801) 149 



CATALOGUE OF rUP.LICATIONS. GGl 

I'.KVKK, Du. II. 0., V. S. Navy — 

Oil Iho iutliu'ticooC atropia on tUo lioart (with Plato I). (P. lSSi>) (550 

report on Materia Mediea section, National Museum, for 1884. (R. 1884, ii). . 048 
report on Departnu'ut of Materia Medica, National Miiseuui. for l-^S."). (Ii. 

1885,11) . (;r,4 

The inlluencc of variations of temperature upon the rale and t he work of the 
heart of the slider terrapin {Pseudemys ritgosa) (with Plates xv,xvi). 

{Sec aho ni.dcr Flint and Beyer.) (P. 1885) (mO 

JiF.YKK, II. G. ; Fj.ixt, ,J. M. Classification of the INIateria. ]\Ieilica eollection in 

National Museum. (P. 1885) (mO, 622 

Hialora sibiriensis, Willen, new subspecies from Alaska, — .1. T. KoTiinocK. (P. 

1884) (1(17 

IJiblion'raphia Amerieana — 

Historico-Naturalis for 1851^C. (iiit.vnn 43 

Index of North American Botany — S. W.\'i'S(i.v , 253 

prospectus of a -II. Stevens (R. 1848) I 

Sketches of vesiii^es of antiquity in United States— S. F. 11a vkx 71 

P.iljlioj^raphies »f American Naturalists — 

I. S. F. IJaird— G. B. Goode 1 503 

II. Isaac Lea— N. P. SCUDDEK 570 

III. F. P.. Meek, C. A.White, C. D. Waleott-J. B. Maucou 625 

Bibliuiiraphy of — 

alLia'-H. C. W«H>i> ^11 

American natural history- for 1851 — C. (iiiiAUD 48 

anthropology— O.T.M.vso.v. (R. 1880) 44'J, 432 

aloiiic volume and specific j>r;ivity, ex]tausioii, and boiliiio; aiid nudtinj^ — 

F.W.Clakke 'J.55 

(Miinook jargon — G. GiHBS IIH 

Dakota language— S. R. RiGGS 40 

diptera— C. B. Osten Sackex '270 

diseases of .joints, bones, larynx, eye, gangrene, etc.— W. W. Keex oOO 

expansion by heat— P. W. Clakke 289 

fishes— T. Gill 247 

fi.shes of Pacific coast of Unite<l States and Alaska for 1880— T. II. Beax. 

(P. 1881) 4()7 

fi.shes of Pacific coast of United States — T. GiLl- 463 

mammals— T, Gill 230 

mollusks— T. Gilt 227 

nehuhc, clusters, milky way, nebnlar hypothesis, etc. — E. S. IIoldex 311 

North American conchology pi-evious to 18G0. Part i. American authors— 

W.G. BiNNEY 142 

North American conchology previous to 181)0. Part ii. Foi-cign authors - 

W. G. BiNNEY 174 

ornithidogy: fauual publicat ions relative to British birds— E. Codes. (P. 

1879) :>-> 

orthoptera — S. II. ScUDDER '•'^9 

rattlesnakes, serpent venom, etc. — S. W. Mitchell P55 

specific heat— F. W. Claiike 27(> 

theU. S.Natior.al Museum. (R.-1884, ii) (i48 

theU. S. National Museum. (R. 1885, ii) f').-.4 

volcanoes, earthquakes, and geysers in Icelaiiil — (I. II. B<>i<'hmei;. (R. 

1H;^5) (MI, 049 

Yoruba 1 anguage — T. J. BOWEX ^'^ 

Bibliography, plan of— J. FkiedlXxdeu. (R. 1858) ^^^ 

Biola's comet, investigations of— J. S. ITubbaud. (R. 1802) 130 



662 CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 

BiNNEY, W. G.— 

Bibliography of North Aiuericau coucbology previous to 1860 — 

Part I. Aaierican authors 142 

Part II. Foreign authors 174 

Check-list of shells of North Ameiica 128 

Land and fresh-water shells of North America — 

Parti 194 

Part II 143 

Part III 144 

Manual of American Land Shells 549 

Biographical — 

memoir of Joseph Henry — A. Gray. (R. IHTrf) 341,350,407 

uotice of — 

L. Agassiz— E. Favre. (R. 1878) 3-29,341 

L. Agassiz— J. A. Garfield. (R. IBTo) 27"), 329 

L. Agassiz— P. Parker. (R. 1873) 2~'j, 329 

S. P. Chase— J. A. Garfield. (R. 1873) 275, 329 

S.P. Chase— H. Hamlin. (R. 1873) 275,329 

W. H. Harvey— A. Gray. (R. 1867) 215, 329 

Charles C. Jewett— R. A. Guild. (R. 18,'w > 215,329 

sketch of Dom Pedro II— A. Fialiio. (li. 187(i) 299, 329 

Biography — See also Memoirs, Life, Eulogy — 

of Coudorcet— F. Arago. (R. 1878) 329, 341 

Biological Society of Washington, proceedings of the, vol. i; \ul. ii 499, 545 

Bird, a new humming, from Guatemala — R. Ridgway. ( P. 1878) 332 

Birds- 
acknowledgment of — Academy of Sciences, Stockholm. (R. 18t;7) 215 

acknowledgment of^J. Gould. (R. 1867) 215 

acknowledgment of — Hungarian National Museum. (R. 1863) 187 

alphabetical index of genera of— S. F. Baird 103 

American, instructions for collecting nests and eggs of — S. F. Baird. (R. 

1858) 109, 139 

aud mammals of Missouri River, list of — E. Harris. (R. 1850) 28 

aquatic, of the United States at London Fisheries Exhibition in 18^3, cata- 
logue of— R. Ridgway 511, 521, 553 

arrangement of families of — S. F. Baird 210 

bibliography of British— E.COTJES. (P. 1879) :V'3 

bibliography of ornithology : faunal publications relative to British E. 

catalogue of North American — S. F. Baird. Octavo 108 

catalogue of North American — S. F. Baird. Quarto 106 

catalogue of Old World, in Nat. Museum— R. Ridgway. (P. 18-1) 467, 462 

circular relative to collections of 168 

collected near southern extremity of Lower California — L. Bkl^dlvg, ed'tcd 

by R. Ridgway. (P. 1883) 548 

collection of, from Nicaragua {Gcophhjphishairdii, OnjzohoruH mitiinijii, Con- 
topus dcpressirosiris, Ci/mhilanius lineaius fasciat/ s, Por-una leucogas- 

<m)—C. C. Nutting. (P. 1883) 548 

Costa Rican, with description of new species — R. Ridgway. (P. 1883) 548 

critical remarks on the Tree Creepers of Europe and North America— R. 

Ridgway. (P. 1882) 518 

department of, National Museum, report of curator for 1884. (R. 1884, ii). 618 
Birds and Bird Eggs — R. Ridgway. Report on Department of Birds and Bird 

Eggs, National Museum for 1885. (R. 1885, ii) 654 

description of new species of, from Costa Rica — R. Ridgway. (P. 1878).. 3.32 

description of new— R. Ridgway. (P. 1881) 467 

description of .several new American races — R. Ridgway. (P. 1882) 518 



CATALOGUE OF FUIU IC ATIONS. 



G63 



Birds aud Bird Eggb—Coutiimcd. . i x, i- 

descriptiona of several uow species and laca of, iii TSalioiuil MuM-aa.-- K. ^ 

RiDGWAY. (P. 1878) •;-;;: 

description of some new North American-li. Kidgwa v. ^ I'. 1^8-) . . .>1^ 

description of, snpposed to be undescribed, from the Conunander Island> and 

Fetropaulovski— K. Ridgway. (P. 1883) ^' 

desiderata anions North American-K. Ridgway. (P. 1881) ^4^'^ 

e<^"-8, exchange of, circular. (P. 188G) -;• 

eSs, list of, wanted in Museum-C. E. Benwre. (P. 1884) 00., 603 

eggs, suggestions for forming collections of-A. Newton ^^- 

exchange of, circular. (P. 1886) ^^^ 

humming, list of— D. G. Elliot V " ." ' V ', LoV " ' V 

fish eating, of the United States at Loudon Fisheries Exhibition in 18.3 cat- 

alogue of— R. Ridgway :":,":;;.;'i". <•' t 

fonnd at Guaymas, Sonora, in December, 1882, and April, 1883, list of-L. 

Belding ; edited by R. Ridgway. (P. 1883) ;;^^ 

from Alaska and Liberia, notes on-T. II. Bean. (P. 1882) .-..--- ^ 

from Alaska; description of New Petrel-R. Ridgway. (P. 1882). -. ---. oL 
from Cape Saint Eugenie, Lower California, Belding collection, catalogue _ ^^ 

of-R. Ridgway. (P. 1882) ." '"T" V"t?' V>,V^,V 

genera Haiporhynchus, Cabauis, and Methriopterus, Reichenbach-R. Kidg- ^^^^ 

way. (P.1882) ;'•","" 

generic and specific appellations of North American and European birds- ^^^ 
L. Stejneger. CP.1882) - j^ 

ocnus tantalus and its allies-R. Ridgway. (P. 1882)..----^--- -" 

Japanese, related to American species-R. Ridgway. (P. 18o3). .-.- 

li Jof described, of Mexico, Central America, and the West Indies, not in ^^^ 

Smithsonian collections .WiQQn ^.18 

new genus of Miminiu,, description of-R. Ridgway. (P- 1'^«~)- ----;• -"V 
new, from Lower California, collected by L. Belding, description of-R. ^^^ 

Ridgway. (P. 1883) • ^gg 

nests and eggs, instructions for collecting -; " 

new species and races o^f American, and synopsis of genus Hirannns-R.^ ^^^^ 

Ridgway. (P. 1878) - 'nl'Vii^^oV'" W 

new species of Tardldcv, from Dominiea-G. N. Lawrence. (1 - 1880)...- ^4^. 

nomenclature and catalogue of— R. Ridgway - " ^^ 

North American oology— T. M. Brewer - - ^^.„ 

notesonsome Costa Rican-R. Ridgway. (P- 1S81) I''"' ^y' ^l^l^ 3;52 

of Antigua, . atalogue of Ober's collection of-G. N. Lawrence. (1 .K^M- -^ 

of Arctic America— L. Kumlien - '/i.'io7M^ 'r?-> 

of Barbuda, catalogue of Ober's collection-G.N. Lawrence. (1 • 18-0- -^.^^ 

of Bermuda-T. Bland ; J.R.Willis. (R. 1858; '.'".'.'..495,566 

of the Bermudas— S. G. Reid ...495,567 

of the Bermudas, notes on— C. H. Merriam ' .^^^ 

of Caribbee Islands— F. A. Ober. (R. 1878) .^.^.^ 

of central California— L. Belding. (P. 1878) ^ j„ 

of Chester County, Pa.-V. Barnard. (R. I860) ^^^ 

from Chili, new plover-R. Ridgway. (P. 1882) - - - - - --„-■---•• ■ ' r,i. 

irom Costa Rica, collected by C. C. Nutting-R. RidgWa. . (P. Ift8-) - - - - 

of District of Columbia, list of-E. Co.es ; S. S. ^^^^^^ ''^^:^,^ 33i 

of Dominica, catalogue of Ober's collection of-G N. Lawrence. ^ 

of Grenada, 'catalogue of Ober's collection-G. N. ^Xwi.enck (^1878'): 332^ 
of Guadeloupe, catalogue of Ober's -^''^'^-^- ^- ^^^^^^^ k ,gsvav. 
from hacienda "La Palma," Costa Rica, by C. C. Nuttin, ^^_^ 

(P. 1832) 



664 CATALOGUE OF PUBLIC ATIOXS. 

Uirtls aiifl Bird Lgj^^s — Coutiuiied. 

of Heligoland— H. Gakkk. (T. 1879) 333 

(^f Kergiieleii Island — J. H. Kipdeu ; E. CoUES 293 

of Lesser Antilles, catalogoti of Ober's collection of — G.N. Lawp.knck. (T. 

1878) 332 

from Lower California, Belding collection, catalogue of — R. Kidgw.xy. (I*. 

1882) .'-)18 

of MartinKpic, catalogue of Oboi'hi collection of — G. N. Lawhexck. (P. 

1878) 33-2 

of Middle and South America not in National Museum — R. Kidgway. (P. 

1-Hl) 467 

of Missouri River— E. Harris. (R. 1850) '28 

of North America, nomenclature and catalogue of — R. Ridgway. (P. 1880) 4-J.> 

of Nova Scotia — Bi.ackistox; T. Bland ; J. R. Willis. (R. 1858) lOj 

of Saint Vincent, catalogue of Ober's collections of— G. N. Lawrkxce. (P. 

1878) 332 

from Santa Lucia, new warbler — R. Ridgway. (P. 1882) 518 

of South America, circular relative to collections of . 163 

of Southern Texas— J. C. Merrill. (P. 1878) 332 

of Southwestern Mexico, collected by F. E. Sumiehrast — G. N. Lawrkxck. 295 
of West coast, migrations and nesting habits of — J. G. Cooper. (P. 1879) 333 
of West Indies, catalogue of Ober's collections from — G. N. Lawrexck. 

(P. 1878) 332 

Outlines of a monograph on the Cyguina> — L. Stejxeger. (P. 1882) 5]8 

Patella in, forms assumed by the — R. W. Siiueeldt. (P. 1884) G(i7 

Remarks on the systematic arrangement of the American Turtlida' — L. Stk.t- 

negeu. (P. 1882) 518 

Review of American. Part 1 — S. F. Baird 181 

Revisions of nomenclature of — R. Ridgway. (P. 1830) 425 

Suggestions for saving skeletons of — A.Newton. (R. 1860) 147 

Synopsis of the West Indian Myavestes — L. Ste.tneger. ( P. 1882) 518 

Systematic review of classiiication of. — W. Lilljeborg. (R. 1865) 209, 264 

Two new North American, added by L. Belding — R. Ridgway. (P. 1881).. 467 

Bishop, W. D., Commissioner of Patents, meteorological observations 157 

Bison, request of Bern Museum for. (R. 1865) 209 

Bites of serpents, nature and cure of — D. Brainard. (R. 18.54) 75. 

Black bass of the Ohio, habits of the— J. EOFP. (R. 1854) 75 

Black Hammock, colored bead from — A. M. Harrison. (R. 1877) 323 

Blackiston, — ; Bland, T.; Willis, J. R. Birds of Nova Scotia. (R. 1858).. 109 

Blackmoro Museum, Salisbury, Euglaud, notice of the. (R. 1868) - 224 

Black Mountain, North Carolina, topograi>hy of T. L. Clingman. (R. 1855).. 77 

Black nodules in the Maine granite- J. P. Merrill. (P. 1883) 548 

Black-tailed deer, eastward distribution of— Capt. Ciias. Bendire. (P. 1882).. 51» 

Blainville, D. de, memoir of— M. Flourens. (R. 1865) 209 

Bland, T. ; Binney, W. G. Laud and fre.sh-water shells of North America. 

Part I. — Pulmouata geophila 194 

Bland ; Willis, J. R. Birds of Bermuda. (R. 1858) 109 

Bland, T.; Blackiston, — ; Willis, J. R. Birds of Nova Scotia. (R. 1858).. 109 

Blank check-lists, labels, ligures, etc 164 

Bleunerhassett's Island, Ohio River, remains on — J. P. MacLeax'. (R. 1882). 540, 535 

Blenny, new species of, description of — D. S. Jordan. (P. 1882) 518 

Blind deaf-mute, vocal sounds ef Laura Bridgman, the — F. Lieber 12 

Blodget, L. List of meteorological observers. (R, 1853) 67 

Blondel, S. Historical, archieological, and litei'ary study of jade. (R. 1876). 299 

Blood, analysis of— J. JoNES 82 

Blossoming of plants, dates of^F. B. HoUGH 182 



CATALOGUE OV PUBLICATIONS. GC)5 

Blow-pipe — 

api):i.rat.ii8 of J law kins anil Wale. (U. 1872) „ 271 

(i>ualitativo detcnninarion l>y the — T. Eglkston. (R 18S2) 271 

Bliulisli, proper name of the— T. Gill. (P. 1872) r)l8 

P.LYDEN, E. D. Mixed rac(>s in Liberia. (R.187()) 21J 

Board of — 

(Jomniissiouers for Foreign Missions. See American Board, vie. 

Regents, Jonrnals of. ( See each annual report) ;>2'.), A 

R(\!fcnts. See Regents. 
Boat -billed heron from Central America, descrii)tion of, new species of — R. 

RroGEWAY. (P. 188.")) (;:,() 

Bnea soledad, Lower California, now species of Conodon from, desetiption of — 

D.S.. Jordan; C. H. Gilukrt. (P. 188.) .^)18 

BOKIIMER, G. IT. — 

Bibliography of volcanoc^s, eartlKjuahes, and geysers of Iceland. (R. 

188^) (;i;i,(;44 

History of the Smithsonian exchanges. (R. 1881) f)!,'), 477 

Index to anthroitological articles in Smithsonian publications. ( K'. H7i)). :{!'), 421 

List of astronomical observatories. (R. 1885) (ilL), 536 

Reports on exchanges. (R. 1881-188.^) .M.'), r.40, r.'.i:'., G2:?, H I!) 

Reports of astronomical observatories, 1S8(). (R. 1881)) 412.438 

Translator observations on volcanic eruptions and earthqnal^es in Iceland. 

(R. i88:>) fi44,(;i;t 

BoEilMKi:,G. H. ; Holdex.E. S. Reportsof observatories, t8-D. (R. IHSO). 442,438 

]5<)KI:n'F.I!, C. G. Lightning discharges. (R. 1807) 21.". 

Bogosloff Island, Behring Sea, new volcano on, hornblende andesites from — G. P. 

Mkkkill. (P. 188".) C.r.O 

P.oiling point, bibliography of — F. W. Claukk 2."..") 

Boiling points, tables of— F. W. Claukk 2.")"), 288 

Boleosoniii — 

nia<-nlatnm, Pacilichlhyft hcani—D. J. JoiiDAX. (P. 1884) 007 

snsaii:e, new sp<>ci(\s of, description of— D. S. Jordan ; C. II. GiLUKirr. (P. 

188:5) 548 

Poller, 11. C. Aecount of Portland Society of Natural History. (R. I8li7) 215 

P.ologna, Aeadems of Sciences of the Institute of. Prize questions. (R. 18(;2).. 150 
Bolton, II. C. — 

Accoui\t of progress in chemistry — 

(R. 1882) [ .540,530 

(R. 1883) .5;);i,579 

(R. 1884) 02:5, 614 

( R . 1 885 ) ( ; 4 1 » , 6 3 3 

Catalogue of scientilic; and technical periodicals 54(), 514 

Index to the literature of Uranium. (R. 1885) CID, 628 

Bone cave in the island of Anguilla, contents of — E. D. Coi'E (!()(1,489 

Bones — 

bibliograi)hy of diseases of the — W. \V. Kekn , :5ftO 

fossil, discovered in the vicinity of Tise.'s Ft.rd, Florida, on the origin of — 

S. T. Wali eu. (P. 1883) 548 

P.ouito, oceanic — 

description of— V. N. Edwards. (P. 1878) f^. 3:52 

on coast of United States— G. B. Goode; T. II. I5i:an. (!'■ 1H78) :5:52 

Books — 

acknowledgment of— C. J. Betih'NE. (R. Ls:;!) 140 

acknowledgment of— J. A. Codd. (R. 18!>1) 141) 

acknowledgment of— M. Lai:oi;laye. (R. 18(i7) 215 



666 CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 

Books — Continued. 

copyright, from 1846 to 184'J— C. C. Jewett. (II. 1S50) 28 

on Brazil, presented— M. M. Lisboa. (R. 18fi5) 20'J 

on Egypt, presentation of— R. Lepsius. (R. 18G0) 147 

on ihi- classiUcation of— J. P. Lesley. (R. 18G::;) 150 

pros(Mit:i! ion of — Dukeof Northumberland. (R. 18r)9) 110 

presented — Irnpeiial Library of Vienna. (R. ISCm) 20!) 

Booth, IIenuy, remains in Ponghkeepsie, N. Y. (R. 1883) 588, 593 

Booth, J. C. ; Morfit, C. Recent improvements in the chemical arts 27 

Bordeaux — 

Chamber of Commerce of. Exchange of publications. (R. 18G3) 187 

Imperial Academy of Sciences. Prize questions. (R. 18G8) 224 

Bosphorus, account of a hail-storm on the — Commodore Pouteu. (R. 1870) 244 

Boston, Mass., American Academy. .S^ce American Academy. 

Botanical explorations in New Mexico and California — A. Gii.vY. (R. 18l'J) 21 

Botany. *See Plants. 

Account of progress in — W. G. Farlow — 

1879 and 1880. (IJ. 1880) 442,430 

1881. (R. 1881) 515,486 

1882. (R. 1882) .540,532 

1883. (R. 1833) 59.!, 581 

Index to North American— S. Watsox 258 

of Hawaiian and Fanning Islaads'and California — T. H. Streets 30:i 

of Kergueleu Island— A. Gray; T. P. .James, E. Tuckekmax ; \V. G. Far- 
low 291 

of the Bermudas— J. H. Lefroy 495, 564 

Bothus Rafiuesque, syuonomy of— D. S. .Jordan ; C H. Gilbert (.P. I88i) 5Ih 

Boundary line between geology and history — E. Suess. (R. 1872) 271 

Bowen, T. J. Yoruba grammar and dictionary 98 

Bowers, S. Explorations in Santa Rosa Island, Califoi-niu. (11. 1877) 3.'.J 

Boyd, C. H. Remains of walrus (?) in Maine. (P. 1881) 4(57 

Boyle County, Ky., mounds in— W. M. Linxey. (R. 1881 ) 481,515 

Braceville, Ohio, mound near— S. N. Luther. (R.1881) 4H!,515 

Brachiopoda, index of — W. H. Dall 3Di 

Bracliyopsis verrucosus, from California — W. N. Locki.vgtox. (P. 1880) 4.5 

Brachyopsis xyosternus — D. S. Jordan; C. H. Gilbert. (P. 188U) 425 

Bracliyura of the south coast of New England, preliminary report on Fi.sh Com- 
mission dredging — S. I. Smith. (P. 1883) 548 

Brackett, a. G. — 

Shoshone or Snake Indians, religion, superstitions, manners, etc. (R. 1879) 345 

Sioux or Dakota Indians. (R. 1876) 299 

Bradley, Prof. Frank H., collection of lishcs, list of— D. S. Jokdax ; C. H. Gil- 
bert. (P. 1882) 518 

Brain and marrow of animals, uses of, ajuong Indians — T. R. Peale. (R. IH70). 244 

Brain, dual character of the — C. E. Brown-Seqijard. Toner lecture No. 2 291 

Brainard, D. Lecture on bites of serpents and wounds of poisoned arrows. 

(R. 1854) 75 

Bransford, J. F. — 

Archccological researches in Nicaragua 6t 6, 383 

Note by. (R. 1882) 540 

Note on shells from Costa Rici kiteheu-mid.lcM, culh'cted by — W. H. Dall. 

(P. 1878) - 332 

Report on explorations in (Jcnfral America. (I.*. 18-^2) 535,540 

Bransford, J. F. ; Vreeland, C. F. ; Anti(iiiitiesof Pautaleou Guatemala. (R. 

1884) 623,6191 



CATALOGUE OV PUBLlCATHiNS GG7 

iJ; AVAis, Aucut^TK, uiciiiiiir of, \>y \]. m-: liKAUMoxr. (K". l-,('.;i) 22H 

])I:ayt()X, a. W. — 

Distribiitiou of the lislicsof Soiilli Curoliiiii, Georgia, .-iihI TcniU'.sscc. [WH 

Xorlh Aiueiicim it'll tliy<)l(>,!4y :5U,-J 

Urazil — 

books on, presented — ^I. ?^I. F-isr.oA. (R. \^i'>7,) v)(i|( 

speciiiieiis from, presciiloil. l'.r:i/,ili:Mi Nai lual Ilisimv Mns.'iiiii. (if. iHli.".). 2ii'.) 

Uraziliau Xatural History Mu.sciiiii, si>('ciiinMis IVoiii llrazil iinsciitetl. (!»'. l-'Ji.')). ^OL) 
BnEKi), E. E.— 

Earthworks in Wisconsin. (R. 187:2) 'J7I 

Pits at EniV)arrass, Wisconsin. (R. 1877) ;{.';; 

Breeding habits of sea catlish — X. T. Lirrrox. (P. l-7e) :VM 

IJrenuMi, government of, exchange system. (I^. 18t;r>) tiO'J 

PijEXXDECKK, F. Meteorites. (R. 18t;'.)) 228 

Bievoortia — 

patronns, note on — S. Stkakns. (P. 1878) XV2 

revision of American siiecu-s of — (J. 15. (iooDic. (P. l.~57H) .'. :>;52 

Brewer, T.M.— 

lastrnetions for collecting and preserving nests and oggs 139 

X^ests andegg.s of Xovth Ameri :an species ofempidoyiacc^^. (P. l87'.)) 'A.'>:\ 

Xorf h Anierieati ooh)gy. Part I. liaptoi'es and Fissirostres 89 

BitEZiXA, A. Ex[danation of princi[)h'S()f crystaUograjjhy and crysdillophysics. 

(R. 1872) 271, 38G 

Bridges, lectures on roads and — F. RocjEits. (R. I8;;(); R isci) 147,11'.) 

liiuDGAiAN, L., vocal vsounds of— F. Lieheii 12 

BiMXTox, I). G. Artificial shell deposits in the United States. (R. I8ii(;) 21 1 

Bristol Bay, Alaska, Ugashagmnt Tribe at, ethnological specinu'iis from, cata- 

logn(; of^W. J. Fisii EK 548 

British- 
America, acconnt of the Indians of— E. Petitot. (R. l-.l.")) 20:i 

Amer!(;a, Tinneh (u* Chepewvan Indians of — G. Ginns. (1{. 18()()) 214,365 

Association, report to, (jn radiant heat — P>. I'oweli.. (R. 185'J) lin 

birds, list of finnal publications relative to— E. Cotes. (P. 1870) :! 1 ; 

Columbia, llaidah Indians of— J. G.SWAX 2G7 

C'olnmbia, Xichols's collection of fish(>s from, notes on — T. II. Beax. (P. 

188:?) :,18 

Columbia, notes on tit^hes of — T. H. Be.\x. (P. 1661) 4t!7 

Guiana, apparently new species of Dromococcyx from, description .if— R. 

RiDGWAY. (P. 1885) C.V) 

minister, F. W. A. Bruce, reconunending Dr. Bercndt. (R. 18G..) 2'J'J 

Musenm — 

acknowledgment of specimens. (R. 18G.')) 200 

electrotypes of shells granted l)y. (R. ]SC'.]) - i67 

notes on typical American tisiu.s in — I). S. Jor.DAX. (P. !'-70) :>:'•:! 

statistics of— S. F. P.aiim). {II. l-.'-O) i28 

Provinces of X^orth Anu-rica, list of libraries, institutions, and societies in — 

W. J. Rhees ll'i 

BRO.\DirEAD, G. C. Prehistoric evidences in Missouri. (R. 1870) :'>I5 

BuocA, P. — 

History of Anthropological Society of Paris, 18f;.-, to 13G7. (R. 1808) 22-1 

Troglodytes, or cave dwellers, of the valley of the Vczere. ( R. 1872) 271 

r.ilDCic, R. A. Early iron nninnfaclure in Virginia — 1G10-177(). P. IH-'.'i) ().'iii 

lli;()i)XAX, B. H. Mounds in Moorehouse Parish, Louisiana. (R. 1870) :!l.') 

linc^x. Dr. R. T. Ancient rem.-iins in White River Canon. (R. lS-i2) r.ii' 

Brosmius brosme Americanus, Gill, identity of, with Broamins brosme (Miiller) 

White— G. B. Goode; T. W. I'.eax. (P. 1878) o32 



G(18 CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 

I'.itowx, U. Sbell-lieap iu Georgia. (K. 1«71) '2i;» 

]5kowx, James T. The wliale fishoiy and itsappliauces f. 1 1, ,")•_' I, 555 

]>uowx-Seqt;ari), C. E. Dual character of the brain. Toner lecture No. 11 291 

Bhuff, J. G. Indian engravings along Green River valley. (K. 1^7-i) '27 1 

BuuxoT, F. R. Habits of the beaver. (R. 187:^) - 27!'> 

Brunswick, Me., meteorological observations— P. Cleavelaxd 204 

Brush, G. J. Catalogue of meteorites in Yale College. (R. 18()S) ~>"24 

Brussels, Belgium, Royal Academy of Sciences, Literature, and the Fine Arts. 
See I'rize qnestions. 

Bkvax, O. N. Antiquities of Charles County, Md. (R. 1874) ysC 

Brcii, L. vox, memoir of, by M. Floukexs. (R. 1862) l'.t» 

Bucks County, Pa. Remains in— John A. Ruth. (R. 188:^) . . ■' -^8, r.97 

Budapest, address before Anthropological Congress at — F. F. Romki:. (1\. 

IST(i) - - - 21»;»,392 

Building Commission, National Museum, report of— 

forl87'.». (R. 1870) lU."., 409 

for 1880. (R. 1880) 4 1-J, 434 

for 1881. (R. 1881) r.ir..491 

Building — 

Smithsonian, reconstruction of eastern ])ortion of, repen't of .Trchifects. (R. 

1884) 62!! 

committee of Regents of Smithsonian Institution, j( nrnal and reports of, 

1847-18G7 '■^29 

committee of Smithsonian, report of, on architecture P 

materials— R.D. Owex P 

nniterials, mode of testing— J. liEXitv. (R. 18r>rj) 91 

nniterials, report on. (R. 1847) H. 329 

new, for Mnseum, memorial to Congress fov. (R. 1^7(1) 2'.)i) 

Report on use of new hall in— L. Agas-siz. (R. 1807) 'il'i 

stone collection, circular in reference to--S. F. lUiitD. (P. 1881) 4(i7,453 

stones, report on— D. D. Owex. (R. 1847) 'A2i), H 

stone, Maine, in the National Museum, on the collection of^-G. P. ]S[fi;i:ill. 

(P. 1883)... r.48 

stones, plan of collection of, for New Orleans Exposition — G. P. Mei;I!IM.. 

(P. 1884) 598 

Buildings — 

public, acoustics applied to— J. IIkxry. (R. 18r)r)) 01 

warming and ventilating— A. MoRix. Part i. (R. 1873) 27."), 439 

warming and ventilating— A. MoRix. Part ii. ( R. 1874) 2^C>, 439 

Bnlletin National Museum — 

No. 1. P,atrachia and reptilia— E. D. Cope 292 

No. 2. P.irds of Kerguelen Island— J. II. Kidder; E. Couks 293 

No. 3. Oology, plants, mamuuils etc., Kerguelen Island — J. II. Kidder and 

others - 294 

No. 4. Birds of Mexico— G. N. Lawrkxce 295 

No. .^>. Catalogue of lishes of Bermudas- G. B. Goode 296 

No. 0. Classification of animal resources of United States— G. B. Goodic. 297 

No. 7. Natural history, Hawaiian Islands, etc.— T. H. Streets 303 

No. 8. Index of Brachiopoda— W. II. D xLi 304 

No. 0. Review of Rafinesque's fishes — D. S. Jordan 305 

No. 10. Notes on cottlda^, etc. ; syuopsisof siliH'idic — D. S. Jordan 306 

No. 11. Bibliography of Pacific fishes-T. Gill 463 

No. 12. Fishes of South Carolina, Georgia, Tennessee; synopsis of catosto- 

mida'—D. S. Jordan; A. N. Bravtox 308 

No. 13. Flora of tit. Croix and Virgin Islands— H. F. A. Eggees 313 



CATALOGUE OF I'lIBLICATlONS. GOD 

BuUftin Niit'miial Mii.sciiiii— Coiithiiictl. 

No. 14. Catiiloyiio Cciitt'iiiiial cxliiliir, animal ii'sourccH and lislniii.s (i. 15. 

(jiooDK 326 

No. 1"). Naluial history and ethnology, Arctic America — L. Kc.mi.ii:.\ 342 

No. 10. Synop.sis of the lishes ol' North America — D. .S. Johka.n ; ('. II. (iii,- 

iiKiJT .KHJ 492 

No. 17. Zoulo;;ical pohil ion (>r Texas — E. i). Cdi'K 412 

No. is. Fi.shery exhiliil <if I iiited States at Berlin — C 1!. (hjodi; 413 

No. 111. List lit' genera in /.ii(";!(ii;y and paleontology — .">. II. ^ei i)i)i:i; 470 

No. '20. ]5ihliograi>hy mT S. F. llaird — G. 15. ({oodk 508 

No. 'il. Nomenchilnreot' Ndrili American birds — li. K'liMiWAV 422 

No. "22. Guide to llora of Washington, D. C. — L. F. Wakd 444 

No. 'i!5. Bibliograpiiy of Isaac Lea— N. P. ScUDDKi; 570 

No. '24. Check-list of Ke[>tilia andBatrachia — H. C. Vakiiow 493 

No. 'J.'). CoutributioHs to the natural history of the lierniudas— .1. M, .hiNKs ; 

G. B. GooDE 495 

No. '2!). Avifauna Columbiana — E. CouK.s; ]). W. ritKNTis.s 500 

No. 27. Catalogue, London Fisheries Exhibition — G. 15. (iooui; ; .-issociates. 511 

No. '2-i. Manual of American Laud iShells — W. (i. Binm:y 549 

No '2'.}. Ornithological Exploi-ations in the (Commander Islands ami in Kamt- 

schatka — L. Stf.j.xkgek 624 

No. :'>il. Paleontological hibiiographies — J. B. M.vi;c<)U 625 

liiiUetin, Biiil()so[)hical Society of Washington — 

Vols. I. II, m 4i:'.,497 

Vol. IV. 501,498 

Vol. V :.04,503 

Vol. VI 543 

Vol. vii 592 

Vol. vm 636 

Bulletin, .Smithsonian, No. L Vocabulary of the Jargon 68 

Bulletins of the U. S. National ^luseum, catalogue and iiulex of 57-1 

ISiireau County, 111., mounds in— A. S. Tiffany. (U. I^kI) .')!.'). l-'l 

ISiireau of Ethnology, directory of otlHccrs and emj)loycs of 466 

ilnreaii of Ethnology, Reports of. .Sec J. \V. Powell. 
Burial — 

caves — ,T. Jo.XFS 2rt'J 

ground, ancient, in Tompkins County, N. Y. — I). TuuwiuaixiK. (R. L~t):i). 1S7 

modes of— J. Joxios . . 2.VJ 

of an Indian .S([na\v, California — W. IVI. Kixc. (R. 1-574) 2H{) 

Buried Hints in Cass County, 111.— Dr. J. F. SxYi>i:i:. (R. IsHl) olo, 4>SI 

Bi'iM;. R. T. Ruins in Pinui County, Ariz. (R. 1S7'J) 15 1.') 

JSL'.sii, Katiiai:ixe J. Catalogue of Rlollnsea and Echinodermata dredged on 
the coa.st of Labrador by the expc^ditiou under the direction of Jlr. 

W. A. Stearn.s in lrtS2. (P. IS-^;!) 'y\H 

liusiness arrangements of the Smithsonian Institution 325 

Butco — 

lineatus alleni, new race of, from Florida — R. RiixiWAY. (P. 18-M) t)07 

oxypteruK, remarks on — R. Ridgway. (P. IsH.')) (mO 

BuTi-FK, A. P. Report of Senate Judiciary Committee on mamigement of 

Smithsonian. (R. 1855) 77 

Butler County, Ohio — 

earth-works near Jones' Station — J. P. MacLkax. (R. 1H81) 481,515 

mounds in— J. P. MacLeax. (R. 1883) 588,51)3 

signal mounds of— J. P. MacLeax, (R. 1882) ,,--, ...535,540 



G70 CATALOGUE OF TUBLICA 1 IONS. 

Buzzard's Bay, Massacliusetts, occurrence of Beloiiv laiiinanus in — G. B. GooDE. 

(P. 1878) 332 

By-Laws of the iSniitLsonian Institution. (K. iHf):'.) G7, 329 

Bytbocaris — 

gracilis, new species from Fish Coniuiissiou dredj^ing-- S. I. SJiiTii. (P. 

1884) 607 

nana, new species, from Fish Commission dredging— S. I. Smith. (P. 

1884) 607 

C. 

Cabanis, Reichanbach— R. RiDGWAY. (P. 1882) 518 

Cache la Poudre River, Colorado, antiquities on— E. L. Berthoud. (R. 1871). 24'J 

Cajcum orcutti,Dall, notes on— C. R. Okcutt (P. 1835) 650 

Calamus, genus, review of the species of the— D. S. Jordan; C. H. Gilbert. 

(P. 1884) 607 

Calamus providens, note on— D. S. Jordan ; C. H. Gilbert. (P. 1884) 607 

California — 

account of botanical explorations in — A.Gray. (R. 1849) 21 

ancient graves and shell heaps of— P. Schumacher. (R. 1874) 286 

Belding collection of birds from, catalogue of— R. Ridgway. (P. 1882) 518 

blenny, new species of, from Saula Barbara— D. S.Jordan. (P. 1882) 518 

burial of Indian squaw in— W. M. King. (R.1874) 28G 

cavo in Calaveras County — J.D.Whitney. (R. 1867) 215 

central, partial list of birds of— L. Belding. (P. 1878) 332 

climate of— A. Gibbons. (R. 1854) 75 

climateof— T.M.Logan. (R. 1855) 77 

description of Gobiesox rlussodon from San Diego — R. Smith. (P. 1R81) 467 

description of new gobioid fish from San Diego— R. Smith. (P. 1881) 467 

descriptions of now species of shells frojn^— W. II. Dall. (P. 1878) 332 

distribution of tertiary fossils of— W. H. Dall. (P. 1878) 332 

fishes of. See D. S. Jordan ; C. IT. Gilbert. 

fishes of— T. H. Streets 303 

fossil mollusks from later tertiaries of— \V, H. Dall. (P. 1878) 332 

gastcrosteus williamsoni from artesian well in San Bernardino, note on — R. 

Smith. (P. 1883) 548 

gulf of, lectures on shells of— P. P. Carpenter. (R. 1859) 110 

history and antiquities of Santa Rosa Island — S. Bowers. (R. 1877) 323 

Indiansof—S. Powers. (R. 1876) 299 

list of fishes of, collected by Lieut. H. E, Nichols— D. S. Jordan ; C. II. Gil- 
bert. (P.18H1) 467 

lower, Belding collection of birds from— R; Ridgway. (P. 1882) 518 

meteorological observations at Sacramento — F. W. Hatch. (R. 1854) 75 

meteorological observations at Sacramento— T. M. Logan. (R.1S54) 75 

meteorology of Sacramento — T. M. Logan. (R. 1857) 107 

mollusks of the vicinity of San Diego, notes on— C. R. Orcutt. (P. 1885).. 6.50 

natural history of— T. H. Streets 303 

new genera and species of lishes from coast of — W. N. Lockington. 

(P. 1879) 3:53 

new pitcher plant from — J. ToRRii: Y 61 

notes on a collection of fishes from San Diego — D. S. Jordan ; C. IT. Gilbert. 

(P. 1880) 425 

occurrence of Cremvohates at San Diego— R. Smith. (P. 1880) 425 

occurrence of Produclus gif/an trus in — C. A. White. (P. 1880) 425 

plants collected by J. C. Fr(5mont in— J. ToRREY 46 

pleistocene fossils from— P. P. Carpenter 252 



CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 071 

California — Continued. 

postplioceno fossils in Coast ran,u;u of — W. 11. Daij,. (T. 1878) '.V.V2 

sea-elephant, account of recent capture of, and statistics rolatin;; lo almiid- 

anco of species — C. C. II. Towxsend. (P. I'-S.")) or.o 

shark, new species of, froMi .San Diej^o — 1). .S. Johdax ; ('. II. (;ii,i;i:i:t. 

(P. 1882) :A4 

unnamed sparrow from — K. Kidgway. (P. 1884) (;u7 

winj^less grasshopper of — E. P. VoLLCM. (11.18(50) 147 

licninsnla, ahoriginal iiihahitants of— J. I>AKfiEliT. (K. 1863-1864) 187, 188, 

440, 361 

upper, explorations in, 181)0 — J. Fkilnki;. (K. iHil) 188 

Camarjiphysema, a new typo of sponge — J. A. Rvdki:. (P. 1880) 4-j.j 

Camel, lecture on the— G. P. Maksh. (R. 1854) 7.") 

Cameuox, II. C. Reminiscences of Joseph Henry '.]^}G 

Campbell, J. Y. Earthquake in Pern, August 115, 1808. (R. 1870) •2U 

Canada — 

meteorological system of — J. G. Hodgins. (R. 1865) 209 

E ist, description of observatory at St. Martin, Isle Jesus — C. Smallwooo. 

(R. 18:^6) Dl 

West, ancient Indian remains near Prcscott — AV. E. Gi;i:&T. (R. 18.')()) 'Jl 

West, meteorological stations of— J. G. IIodgixs. (R. 18.J8) 100 

Canada porcupine, occurrence of, in Maryland — O. Lihujeh. (P. 1S81) 407 

occurrence of, in West Virginia— G. 15. (jOODE. (P. 1-7^-).. ;y.]2 

Canal, Washington, report of committee of Regents on. (R. 1868) 224 

Canals, ancient, in Florida— Charles J. Kenwoutiiy. (R. 1881) 515,481 

Cancy, S. Deposit of Bishop Johns's library. (R. 18G2) 1.50 

Cancerous tumors, structure of — J.J. Woodwaud 266 

Camroma zeledoni from Central America, description of — R. Ridgway. (P. 

1885) 650 

Candle- lish of northwest coast— J. G. Swax. (P. 1880) 425 

Caxdolle, p. de, memoir of, by M. Flouhkx.s. ( II. 1851*) 110 

Caxxox, G. L. Auti([uities ofC'olorado. (R. 1877) :')2:' 

(janthartes — 

burrovianus Cassin— R. Ridgway. (P. 1885) ()5fl 

nriibitinga Pelzelu- R. Ridgway. (P. 1885) 050 

Caxudas, A. Earthquakes in Guatemala. (R. 1858) 101) 

(Caoutchouc and gutta pcrcha. (R. 1~()4) 1'"^^^ 

Cape Cod, littoral marine fauna of— R. 1wVT1UU"X. (P. 1880) 425 

Cape Flattery, Indians of— J. G. Swax 220 

Cape San Lucas — 

Belding collection of lishcs fioni, lis',, of— 1). S. Joiii.an ; C. IT. GiLiuciir. 

(P. 1882) 518 

Xantus collection of iishi's from, catalo-nc of— 1). S. J(ii;i>AX ; C. II. (!ii.- 

BEKT. (P. 1882) r)18 

Cape St. Eugenio, Belding colleetion otl)irds from, catalogue of— R. Ridgway. 

(P. 1882) •"'!« 

Capen, F. L. Meteorological discovery. (R. 1860) 214 

Ca])itol, United States — 

memorial exercises at '^-'^^ 

accouBt of marble used in extension of — J. IIexu Y. (R. 185()) *J1 

Cara gigantesca of Yzamal, in Yucatau— A. Schott. (R. 1869) 228 

Caracas, South America, meteorology ot^ — G. A. Eiixsr. (R. 18(57) 215 

Carangidtc, families and subfamilies of— T. Gill. (P. 1882) .'>li^ 

North American, review of the— D. S. Joinxvx ; C. II. (JiLP.Kirr. (P. 

1883) ^la 



672 CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 

Caranx — 

Beaiii, (Voiii I5c;uiroi-t, N. C, descri prion of — D. S. Jokdax. (P. 1S80) 425 

Bartlioloiiia'i, note on— D. S. Jordax ; C. H. Gilbeut. (P. 1884) 607 

ruber, note oil— D. S. JoRDAX; C.H.Gilbert. (P. 1884) ,. 007 

Caisboxxieu, M. (Translated by T. H. Beax.) Note on the habits and the 

rearing of the Axolotl (Jw(6/i/s^o»irt J/exic««((m)- (P- 188'2) 518 

Carcharias caruiclla, description of— D. S. Joud.\n; C. H. Gilbert. (P. 1882) 518 

Cariacus colnmbianus, eastward distribution of— C. Bendirk. (P. 1882) 518 

Carib language and people— C. II. Berkxdt. (R. 1 873) 275 

Caribbean sea — 

collection of niednsK — F. W. Fewkes. (P. b^H.")) G.'.O 

echini collected in, by steamer Albatro.^s in 18-'4, report on — R. Ratiibux. 

(P. 1885) G50 

stalked ciinoids collected in, by sti ;niier Alhuivoss in 1884 and 1885, report 

ou— R. Ratiibux. (P. 1885) 050 

Caribbee Islands. <nnithology of— F. A. Ober (R. 1878) 341 

Cai;letox, J. H. — 

Excursion lo Abo, Qnarra, and Grau Quivira, New Mexico. (R. 1854) 75 

Meteorites in Mexico. (R. 18(m) 20!) 

Carlix'^, W. E. Ohservjitions of iSi/YYf()« lldicnoidcH. ^P. 1881) 407 

Carlsruhe, Scieniiru; Ctnigress of, 1858— F. J. Nickles. (R. 1800) 147 

Carolina, Floriila, and the Bahamas Islands, Catesby, Natural History of, tig- 

uresof tislies ill, ideiitilieat ion of— I). S. Jor.DAX. (P. 1884) 007 

Carroll County — 

Teunesseo, aboriginal structures in— James M. Null. (R. 1882) 535,540 

Illinois, mounds in— Jajies M. Willi amsox. (R. 1882) 540 

Carbenter, p. p.— 

Check-list of the. shells of North A.ueriea 128 

Lectures ou moll nsca, or shell-fish, and their allies. (R. 1800) 147,152 

Lectures on shells of (I alt' of California. (R. l'^5;)) 110 

Mollusks of western North America 252 

Carthago, autiquc Roiiian mosaic from — G. II. Hear. (P. 1883) 548 

Carving, rock, on the Siis(iuelianna River, Peunsylvania — F. G. Galbraitii. (R. 

1881) 515.481 

Carvings, animal, from the mounds of the Mississip[»i Valley — H. W. Henshaw. 

(E. 18'0-'8l ) 542 

Case, II. B.— 

Flint implements iu Holmes County, Ohio. (R. 1877) 323 

Mounds and earth-works in Ashland County, Ohio. (R. 1881) 481,515 

Casella L. Description of meteorological iiistrunients, (R. 185'J) 110 

Cass,L., Secretary of State. Circular to di[)!omatic agents relative to L. II. 

Morgan's researcli i;r8 

Cass County, 111. — 

buried flints in— Dr. J. F. Snyder. (R. 1881) .515,481 

Indian remains iu— Dr. J. F. Sxyder. (R. 18nl) 515,481 

Cassiope oxycoccoides Gray, new species, from the Commamb'r Islands — L. 

Stejxeger. (P. 1884) 007 

Castalia cinciunatJa, new species, description of — A. E. V^kurill. (P. 18-:5) ... 050 

Castings, metallic, of delicate natural objects. (P. 1881) 407 

Casts — 

catalogue of, of Indian boys and girls at Hampton Normal Institute, "Vir- 
ginia— R. H. Pratt. (P. 1879) 333 

catalogue of, of Indian prisoners at St. Augustine, Fla. — R. H.Pratt. (P. 

1878) 332 

of statues, etc., proposed by W. J. Stone. (R. 1855) 77 

plaster, methods of making and preserving— A. PiRZ. (P. 1881) 407 



CATALOGUE OF PUHLICATIONS. G73 

Caswkll, a. — 

Lecture on astrouoiuy. (K. 1858) 109 

Meteorological observations at Providence, U. L, 1-"!I-1S()0 ... 103 

Mcteoroloj,ncal obsorvations at Providence, K. L, IHIJl-lS/O ."> 17, 443 

Cataloj;ue — 

J//wiross, collection ()(■ birds from Cozninel, Yucatan — 1\. b'lixiw.w. (P. ISH.j) (hjO 
birds of — 

Anligna and ISarbuda, collected by F. A. Obcr — G. i\. Lawi;i;n(i:. (P. 

1H78) •S3-> 

Costa Kica — J. C. Zkledox. (P. issf)) (;,">() 

Dominica, collected by F. A. Ober — G. N. ]iA\vi;K.\CK. (P. 1878) 'S.V2 

Grenada, collected by F. A. Ober— G. N. Lawkknck. (P. 1878) 332 

Guadeloupe, collected by F. A. Ober — G. N. Lawiikn'CK. (P. 1878) 3:52 

Lesser Antilles, collected by F. A. Obcr — G. N. Lawrence. (P. 1878). 332 

Martinique, collected by F. A. Ober— G. N. Lawkkxck. ( P. 1878) 332 

North America— R. RirxiWAY. (P. 1880) 42;"), 422 

St. Vincent, collected by F. A. Ober— G. N. Lawkexcio. (P. 1~7.>^) :;32 

books and memoirs relating to nebube and clusters — F. S, IIoldkx 311 

casts takeu by Clark IMills of Indian boys and girls at lIain|)lon, Va. — ]l. II. 

PitATT. (P. I87'j) :; ;:! 

casts taken by Clark Mills of Indian [)risoners at St. Augustine, Fla. — P. II. 

Pkatt. (P. 1878) 332 

collectiou — 

at International Exhibition, isru. (R. 187t')) 2"J'.t, 326 

of ethnological sjiecimens obtained from tlie Ugashagmut tribe, 

Ugashak River, Bristol Bay, Alaska— W. J. Fisueu (P. 1883) r>48 

of Japanese cotton fd)re presented by Government of Japan. (P. 1881). 407 
of Japanese woods presented b^' University of Tokio — L. F. Waiip. 

(P. 1881) 4(;7 

of United States at London Fislieries Exhibition in 1883. {See also 
Goode, G.B. ; Rathbuu, R. ; Ridgway, R. ; Winslow, F. ; Brown, Jas.T.; 

Bean, T. H. ; True, F. W.).511, 521, 551, 552, 553, 554, 555, 556, 557, 562 
to illustrate animal resources and lisheries of United States exhibited 

at Philadelphia, 1876— G. B. GoODE 326 

desci ibed coleoptera of the United States— F. E. Melsiikimek 62 

described diptera of North Amer ica— C. R. Ostex Sacken 102, 2 70 

described lepidoptera of North America — J. G. Moiiuis 118 

engravings presented to Smithsonian — C. B. Kixg. (R. 1801) ll'.t 

fishes from Pensacola, Fla., collected by S. Stearns— G. B. Goode; T. II. 

Bean. (P. 1879) 33:', 

tishes received from the Public Museum of the Institute of Januiica, with 

description of two new species— T. II. Bean ; H. G. Dresel. (P. 1884) (i07 
tishes — ■ 

obtained in the Gulf of Mexico by J. W. Vclic— O. 15. GooDE ; T. II. 

Beax. (P. 1879) :!:5;5 

of Alaskan and adjacent waters— T. II. Beax. (P. 1881) 4(57 

of the Bermudas— G. B. Goode 296 

of the east coast of North America — T. Gill 283 

of St. John's River and cast coast of Florida— G. B. Goode. ( P. 1879) . . :>:>:5 

general stereotype, of public libraries, report of commissiou on. (R.185()) 28 

geological specimens- D.D. Owex. (R. 18.54) 75 

historical and geographical manuscripts, maps, etc. — L. Beklaxdieu. (R. 

1854) 75 

illustrated, of the collections obtained from the Indians of New Mexico and 

Arizona in 1879— J. Stkvexsox. (E. 1S80-81) 542 

U. Mis. 170 13 



674 CATALOGUE OF TUBLICATIONS. 

Catalo;;ue — Continued. 

illustrated, of iJort ion of collections made iu 1831 — W. H. Holmes. (E. 1881- 

'82) 631 

Indian relics presented to Smithsonian — J. II. DEVEKEUX.i. (R. ISTa) 271 

library of James Smithson 3!0 

linguistic manuscripts in library of Bureau of Ethnology — J. C. Tilling. 

(E.1879-'80) 476 

meteorites in Yale College — G. J. Brush. (R. 1868) 224 

minerals, with their formula — T. Eglestox 156 

moUusca added to fauna of southern New England — A. E. Veiuull. (P. 

1880) 425 

mollusca and echinodcrmata dredged on the coast of Labrador by the expe- 
dition under the direction of W. A. Stearns, iu 1882 — K. J. Busii. (P. 

1883) 548 

North American birds — S. F. Baird octavo, 108 

North American birds — S. F. Baird quarto, 106 

North American mammals — S. F. Baird 105 

North American reptiles. Parti — S'rpents — S.F, Baird; C. Girard 49 

of a collection of samples of raw cotton presented to the National Museum 
by the International Cotton Exposition, Atlanta, Ga., 1881— S. M. In- 

man. (P.1882) 518 

Old World birds iu U. S. National Museum— R. Ridgway. ( P. 1881 ) .... 407, 462 

orthoptera of North America — S. 11. Scudder 189 

l»hotographic portraits of Indians in gallery of Smithsonian Institution 216 

l)ortraits of North American ludiaus, ]iaii)ted by J.M.Stanley 53 

publications of Smithsonian Institution 506, 74, 203, 226, 245, 278, 478 

publications of societies in Smithsonian library 73, 85, 117, 179 

rocks, minerals, and ores in Michigan— C. T. Jackson. (R. 1851) 75 

rocks, minerals, etc. — J.W.Foster. (R. It54) 75 

rocks, minerals, etc. — J.D.Whitney. (R. 1854) 75 

rocks, minerals, ores, and fossils — J.Locke. (R. 1-54) 75 

scientific and technical periodicals — C. II. Bolton - 546, 514 

second, collection of birds from Lower California— L. Belding ; R. Ridgway 

(editor). (P. 1883) 548 

serpents — S. F. Baird ; C. Girard 49 

system for libraries— C. C. Jewett. R. 18 19 ; R. 1850) 21, 28, 47 

trees of the United States— J. G. Cooper. (R. 1858) 100, 351 

trochilida3 in collection of National Museum— R. RiDGWay. (P. 18-0) 425 

Catalogues of libraries, construction of— C. C. Jewett 47 

Catalytic force, orphenomeua of contact — T. L. Phipson. (li. 1~62) 150 

Catesby's Natural History of Carolina, Florida, and the Bahamas Islands, figures 

of fishes in, identification of— D.S.Jordan. (P.18-^4) 607 

Catfish, sea, breeding habits of— N. T, Lupton. (P. 1878) 332 

Catherina Archipelago, Alaska, remains of ])rehis<oric man from— W. II. Dall. 318 
Catlin, G. — 

Notes relative to life and paintings of— J. Henry. (R. 1872) 271 

Account of Mandan ceremonies by, accuracy of— J. Kipp. (R. 1872) 271 

Indian gallery in U. S. National Museum, with memoir and statistics. T. 

Donaldson 654 

CatostomidjE, species of, described by Dr. Charles Girard, identification of— D. 

S.Jordan. (P. 1885) ". 650 

Catostomida>, synopsis of — D. S. Jordan 308 

Cattie, S. T. Genitalia of male eels and tlicir rcxiuil cliaracters. (P. 1880) ... . 425 
Caulolatilus microps — 

from Gulf coast of Florida— G.B.Goode; T. H. Bean. (P. 1878) W-Vl 

notes on— T, II. Bean. (P. 18H5) O.'jU 

notes on— G. B.Goode: 'J\ H. P,i:an. (P. 1834) 607 



CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS 675 

Caulolcpis knigidens, new genus and species of ByiKipsisof^T. Gill. (P. P^S:5). 543 

Canses which limit vegetable species — A. Di-: Candolle. (li. 1858) 109 

Gave dwellers of the valley of the Vdzfcre — P. Broca. (K. 1872) 271 

Gave in Galaveras Gounty, Gal. — J. D. Whitney. (K. 18G7) 215 

Gav(nn, Luray, in Virginia, report of visit to — O. T. Mason and others. (R. 

IBSO) ■1-12,433 

Gaves in Alaska, remains of prehistorio man from — W. 11. Dall 318 

C'azin, a. Kccent progress in relation to the theory of heat. (R. ISdH) 2ii4 

Gedar Keys, Fla., fishes collected at, by D. S. Jordan, notes on — D. S. .Iokdan; 

J. Swain. (P. 1884) got 

Celts, stone, in West Indies and Africa — G. J. Gibbs. (R. 1877) :52;5 

Genozoic, Mesozoic, and types in the National Musenm, list of^.T. B. Maijcou. 

(P. 1885) Cy:,o 

Genozoic rocks, fossils from— C. A. W'niTE. (P. 1880) 425 

Centennial — 

Awards to Smithsonian Institntion. (R. 187G-1878) 21)'.), :i41 

Exhibition — 

catalogue of collection of animal resources and fisheries at — G. H. Goodk . 326 

circular for distribution at 290 

plan of proposed Smithsonian exhibit at — S. F. Baihi). (K. 1-75) 208 

report on— S. F. Baird. (R. 187G) "-i- lit, 307 

savage weapons at — E. H. Knight. (R. 1879) :> 15,415 

Exposition. See World's Industrial and Cotton Centennial Exposition — 

mission to Indians of West Nevada and California — S. Powers. (R. 187G).. 299 

Centigrade degrees, tables for conversion of, to Fahrenheit. (R. 1803) 187 

Central America — 

boat-billed Heron, Cancroma zelcdoni, from, description of— R. 1?i]>gway. (P. 

1885) (;50 

circular relative to collections of birds of 168 

description of new fishes from — D. S. Jordan ; C. M. Gilberi'. (P. 1881).. 4(17 

explorations in — C. II. Berendt. (R. 1867) 215 

explorations in, report on — Dr. J. F. Bradford. (R. 1882) .540, .535 

list of birds of, not in Smithsonian collection 185 

rain-fiill in— C. A. SCHOTT 222,353 

review of birds of — S. F. Baird 181 

studies in picture writing of— E. S. ITolden. (E. 1879-80) 47r. 

travels in— S. IIabel 269 

Centrarchidro — 

notes on — D. S. Jordan :50() 

review of family— G. L. McKay. (P. 1881) 4G7 

Centropomidaj, on— T. Gill. (P, 1882) Z>U 

Genturus — 

review of genus— R. Ridgway. (P. 1881) 4G7 

rubriventris pygmteus, new subspecies — E. Ridgway. (P. 1885) ()50 

Cephaloscyllium laticeps—U. S. Jordan ; C. H. Gilbert. (P. 1880) 425 

Cepphus, genus, remarks on the species of the — L. Stejneger. (P. 1S84) 607 

Ccratiid;c, note on— T. Gill. (P. 1373) :5:?2 

Ceramic art, origin and development of form and ornament — W. II. Hoi-Mes. .. (>52 
Ceremonies — 

at laying of corner-stone of Smithsonian Institution. (K. l."-'47) H, :'>V9 

Mandan, accuracy of Gatlin's account of — J. Kipp. (R. 1872) 271 

Cirthia of Europe and America, critical remarks on — R. Ridgway. (P. 1882).. 51-< 
Cerlhiola— 

finschi, synopsis of — R. Ridgway. (P. 1885) 650 

sancti-thomjo, synopsis of — R. Ridgway. (P. 1885) 650 



GIG CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 

Certliiola — Coiitiimed. 

suuiU'-valli, syuoijsis of— R. Kidgway. ( V. 1885) (mO 

tri-color, ucw species, from collectiou hy J. E. Bouedict aud W. ISlyo — 11. 

ElDGWAY. (P. 1884) (JOr 

Cciitliiopsis stejnegeri, new species, from tbi; Coiuiuauder Islands, description 

of— W. n. Dall. (P. 1884) (507 

Ceryle stictipennis, descrix^tiou of— G. N. Lawhkxck. (P. 1885) 050 

Cessions of land by Indian tribes to United States — C. C. ROYCK. (E. lS79-'80)- 470 
Cetaceans from Commander Islands, description of-L. Stejnegku. (P. 1883). 548 

CiiAOi!;, G. I. Lectnre ou oxygen and its combinations. (R. 1855) 77 

Cbaolacayo trephined skull — O. T. Mason. (P. 1885) 050 

(;iialk found in United States— T. A. CoNRAD. (R. 1805) 209 

Cliamber of Commerce of Bordeaux. Exchange of publications. (K. 18015) . .. 187 
CliANNi.NG, W. F. Lecture on the American lire-alarm telegraph. (R. 18.54) . .. 75 

CilAXTi!E,E. Code of sjnnbols for prehistoric archjuology. (R. 1875) 2*J^ 

Cliapala Lake, notes on Dugc^s, lishes from— I). S. Jokdax. (P. 1879) :y,y.i 

Chappels.mith, J. Tornado near New Harmony, Ind. , April oO, 1852 59 

Characteristics of ancient man in Michigan — 11. Gillmax. (R. 1875) 298,393 

Charleston, S. C, uotesof collection of fishes from — D. S JoiiUAX; C. II. Gilhekt. 

(P. 1882) 518 

Charlotte Harbor, Fla., shell heai)sof— Dr. M. II. Simoxs. (R. 1882) .5:35,540 

Chart- 
base, of the United States — C. A Schott 414 

temperature, of the United States, year— C. A. Schott 381, 387, 388 

Charts— 

and maps of America, on a collection of — .). G. KoiiL. (R. 18')o) 91 

of prehistoric archicology, international code of symbols for — G. de Mou- 

tillet; E.Chantke. (R. 187.".) 298 

rain, of the United States, summer, winter, year — C. A. Schott 374 

temperature, of United States, summer, winter, year — C. A. Schott 387 

wind— J. H. COFFIX ; S. J. Coffix 208 

Chase, IIexky E. — 

notes on the Wampanoag Indians of Massachusetts. (R. 188;!) 588,59)5 

shell-heaps near Provincetown, Mass. (R. 1882) io5, 540 

Chase,S. P.— 

biographical notice of— J. A. Garfield. (R. 1873) 275,329 

biographical notice of — H. Hamlix. (R. 1873) 275, 329 

statement of, relative to the telegraph. (R. 1857) 107, 115, 329 

Chattanooga, Teiin., ancient mound near — M. C. Read. (^R. 1807) 215 

Chautauqua County, N.Y. — Jamf.s Shewaiid. (R. 1881) 481,515 

Check-list of— 

duplicates of lishes from Pacific coast, distributed by Smithsonian Institu- 
tion in 1881— D. S. Jokdax; P. L. Jouy. (P. 1881) 4(i7 

iishes, distributed by Smithsonian Institution for National Museum — T. II. 

Beax. (P. 1880) 425 

fossils of North America, miocene — F. B. Meek 183 

invertebrate fossils of North America, cretaceous aud Jurassic — F. B. Meek. 177 
invertebrate fossils of North America, eocene and oligocene — T. A. CoNRAD. 200 

North American batrachia and reptilia — E. 1). Cope 292 

North American batrachia and reptilia — II. C. Yarrow 493,517 

periodicals received by Smithsonian Institution, 1853 Q 

plants of Washingten and vicinity — L. F. Ward 460 

publications of Smithsonian Institution to~- 

July, 1872 245 

Tuly. 1874 278 



CATALOGUE or PUBLICATIONS. CTT 

Check-list ot" — Coiitinufd. 

publicutious ol" .Siiiillisouiuii Institution to — 

July, 1877 301 

July,tS7y 344 

Dcconitev, 1881 r)i)r.,437 

March, 1884 •. 571 

DecembeM, 1881 437 

shells— Lea, C'Aia'K.NTKi;, and otlicrs 128 

Smithsonian ]>nhlicati()ns 71,'Jii:!. 'JJO.-J'.Ml 

Check-lists, blank 164 

Chcloiiia — 

anatomy aud physiology of— S. \V. MiiciiKi.i. ; (1. K. .Moukiiocsk 159 

extiuct, of Nebraska — J. liEinv .".8 

Chclura terebrans, occHrrence of, on coast of U. S. — S. I. Smith. (T. 1H7'J) '.V.V.i 

Chemical — 

analysis of the sun — A. LAUciKL. (11. 18;;i) ll'J 

and physiologcal investigations of vertcbrata — J.Jo.NKS 82 

arts, recent iHi))rovemeuts in— J. C. Uoorir ; C. Mokkit 27 

equivalents of sixty-threes elements, lalile of. (K. 18(11) 188 

formuliB, tables of— F. W. Claukk 255 

types, modern theory of— C. M. WKTiiEinLi.. {II. 18(i:!) 187 

Chemist, report of— F.W.TAYLon. (R. 1^8J) 442 

Chemistry — 

Account of progress in — 
G. F. Barker— 

1879-1880. (K. 18-^0) 412,429 

1881. (R. 1881) 515, 485 

C. H. Bolton— 

1882. (R. 1882) 540,530 

1883. ( R. 1883) 593, 5 79 

1884. (R. 1884) 023,614 

1885. (R.1885) 019,633 

lectures on agricultural— S. W. Joiixsox. (R. 1859) 110 

of the earth— T. S. Hunt. ( U. 1809) 228, 376 

photographic— M. Jamix. (R. 1807) 215 

Chepowyan Indians, notes on the— G. Ginivs and others. (R. l^-'OO) 214,365 

Cherbourg, Imperial Society of Natural Sciences of. Frizo (juestions. (R. 1864). 188 
Chesapeake Bay- 
new fish from month of— G. B.Goode; T. II. P.ea.x. (F. l^'8l) 407 

head of, fishes observed at, in s[)ring of 1832, notes on— T. 1 1. Beax. ( P. 1883) . 548 
Chester County, Fa. — 

birds of— V. Barnard. (R. 1806) 1''' 

history of— W. Dari.ixgtox. (R. 1802) l-'>0 

Chicago Academy of Sciences. Acknowledging siiecimcMis. (R. 1807) 21. > 

Chili, new plover from— R. RirxiWAY. (F. 1882) ^'l^^ 

ChimiTira abbrcviata, new species of, synopsis of— T. Gn.r.. (P. 18^3) 548 

China- 
ancient earthworks i n -Mark Wi i-LI ams. ( R. 1885) 045, 049 

geological researches in— R. Fumtelly 202 

Chinese — 

coal-bearing rocks, fo.ssil ]dants from— J. S. Nkwi;ki:i:y 202 

coals, analy.ses of— J. A. MacDoxald "-'"- 

mineral called yn, study of— S. Bloxdkl. (R. 1^^7(;) ~W 

Chinook jargon — II. Hale 

M. Lioxnet; B. K. Mitchell 



678 CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 

Chinook jargon — Coutiuiied. 

bibliography of — G. GiBBS 161 

dictionary of— G. Giebs 161 

Chiuook uamesofsalmou in Colmubia River— S. 13. S.mitii. (P. 1S8I) 4G7 

Chionis minor, study of — J. II. Kidder ; E. Coues 29A 

Qhiroid fish {Mtjriol€]}is zonifer) from Call foruiu, new — W. X. LocKiN'GTOX. (P. 

1880) 42r, 

Chinis, remarks on genus— AV. N. Lockixgtox. (P. 1880) 42.') 

Chitonida^, new species of, from Panama — P. P. Carpexteu 2f 2 

Chitons — 

of Alaskan and Arctic regions, report on — W. II. Dall. (P. 1878) 33-i 

from deep waters of eastern coast of United States — W. II. Dall. (P. 1881) 4G7 

on genera of— W. 11. Dall. (P. 1881) 4G7 

Chlorospermcie, marine algte of North America — W. II. Harvey 95 

Chlorophylloid granules of Norticelhi— J. A. RvDER. (P. 1884) GOT 

Chloroscombrus orqueta, description of — D.S. Jordan; C. H. Gilbert. (P. 1882) 518 
Chorea, inquiries relative to disease known as — S. W. Mitchell. (R. 1s74)... 286 
CnossAT, Dr. Transactions of Geneva .Society of Physics and Natural History, 

1863tol8G4. (R. ISGu) \ 20'J 

Chriodorus, description of— G. B. GooDE ; T. II. Bean. ( P. 1882) 518 

Christiania, Norway, University of, ethnological specimens presented. (R.18u:]) 187 

Chrysotis, new species of, from Dominica — G. N. Lawrence. (P. 1880) 425 

Chrysodonius Kroyeri, var. Eayana, new variety from Point Barrow expedi- 
tion— W. H. Dall. (P. 1881) GOT 

Chrystalline schists of the District of Columbia, preliuiinary notes on the — G. P. 

Merrill. (P. 1883) 548 

Cibola, Corouado's march in search of cities of — J. 11. Simpson. (R. 18G9) 228 

Cinnamon bear from Pennsylvania — F. W. True. (P. 1882) 518 

Circle, ratio between diameter and circumference of — W. Ferrkl 233 

Circles and spheres, tangeucies of — B. Alvoud 80 

Circular — 

ancient mining in Lake Superior copper regioiL (R. 18G]) 14D 

for distribution at the Centennial Exhibition 290 

giving directions for constructing lightning-rods — J. Henry 237 

in reference to collecting North American shells 176 

in reference to history of North American grasshoppers— ^P. R. Uhler 163 

of inquiries relative to crawfish and other fresh- water Crustacea 319 

of Institute of Rupert's Laud. (R. 1851) 149 

of instructions for observations of thunder-storms — J. Henry 235 

of instructions to ob.servatorics, relative to telegraph announcements of as- 
tronomical discoveries 263 

philological-G. Gibbs. (R. 18G2) 150 

relating to collections in archa3ology and ethnology 205 

relating to — 

collections of living reptiles ,. 320 

relative to — 

American archajology— 0. T. Mason. (R. 1879) 345, 316 

collections of birds from Middle and South America 168 

food fishes 234 

heights 236 

observations in Russian America 207 

scientific and literary exchanges 324 

shipping fresh fish and other animals 384 

respecting copyright. (R. 1854) 57 

respecting new report on libraries. (R. 1854) 75 



CATALOGUE OF PIJBI.ICATION.S. G79 

Circular — Couliuuod. 

respoctiiij; system of relation.sbip — L. II. Morgan 138 

sent with speciineus proscuteil. (K. 1872) 271 

to untoiuologists ^ 178 

to officers of Hudson's ]5:iy Company 137 

Circulars of United States National iluseum — 

No. 1. Plan of organization and regulations of the Muficum — (!. ]5. 

GooDE. (P. Idril) 407,445 

No. 2. To friends of the Museum— S. F. Baikd. (P. 1881) 407,446 

No. :?. Petroleum collections— 8. 1. Baiud. (P. iSrfl) 407,447 

No. 4. Department of insects— S. F. JUiHi). (P. 1881) 407,448 

No. 5. Establishment and oUicers of 8. Inst, and Nat. Mus. (P. 18-1 ) 4;;?, 449 

No. 6. Materia-medica collection— J. M. Flint. (P. 1881) l,;7,450 

No. 7. Forms of drugs and medicines— J. M. Flint. (P. 1881) 407, 451 

No. 8. Collections of drugs for materia-medica section — J. M. Flint. 

(P. 1881) 407,452 

No. 9. Building-stono collection— S. F. Baird. (P. 1881) 407,453 

No. lU. Letters on the National Museum— B. Phillips. (P. 1881) 407,454 

No. 11. Provisional classification of the food collections — G, B. (iooDK. 

(P. 1881) 4(17,455 

No. 12. Classification of the collections to illustrate taxidermy — Vv . T. 

IIornaday. (P. 1881) 4i;:,456 

No. l:!. Scheme of classification for the collections in the Museum— (J. 

B. GOODK. (P. 1881) 407,457 

No. 14. Asking for contributions to library of Museum— S. l'\ Baird. (P. 

1881).... 407,453 

No. 15. Organization and objects of the Museum —G. B. (joode. (P. 

1881) 407,459 

No. 10. Plans for installation of collections— G. B. Go()I>k. (P. 1881).. .407, 472 
No. 17. Contributions to the Museum and their aclcuowledgment. (P. 

1881) 4(;7,473 

No. 18. List of publications of the Museum. (P. 1881) 407,474 

No. 19. Catalogue of materia-medica collection — James M. Flint r):59 

No. 20. Request for specimens of drugs— Spencer F. Baird 541 

No. 21. Instructions for collections of aboriginal anti(iuities — Charles Uav. 572 
No. 22. Directions for preserving skins of mammals- W. T. IIornaday.. . ,'>p9 
No. 2:?. Instructions for taking paper molds of inscriptions, etc.— .V. 1'. 

NlBLACK -j''^ 

No. 24. Plan of textile exhibit at New Orleans Exposition -11. Hitchcock. .597 
No. 25. Plan for collection of building stones and rocks at New Orleans 

Exposition— G. P. Merrill 598 

No. 20. Plan for collection of gems and precious stones at New Orleans Ex- 
position— F. W. Clarke '''99 

No. 27. Directions for collecting moths— C. II. Fekxai.d 000 

No. 28. Directions for mound exploration— Cyrus Thomas 001 

No. 22. Plan for collection of mainmala at New Orleans Exposition— F. W. 

True <J02 

No. ;5U. Instructions for collecting eggs— C. E. Bendire 00:1 

No. 'M. Plan for exhibit of mineral resources at New Orleans Exposition- 

Frederick P. Dewey <^'^4 

No. ;{2. Catalogue of materia-medica collection, revised— II. G. Bkykh (iJi 

No. 3;>. Notes on the preparatioa of skeletons— F. A. Lucas 020 

No. :!4. For the guidance of persons desiring to make exchanges of birds or 

birds' eggs with the U. S. National Museum 6:^7 

No. 35. Concerning the lending of typo specimens 6-lG 



G80 CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATION'S. 

Cists, stoiio, Madison County, 111— A. Oi;iiLi;!i. (R. 187'.t; iUo 

Citbarichtli3s — 

Macrops, uew species of, from Pcusacola, Florida, description of— H. G. 

Dkesel. (P. 1884) , (507 

stigmaius, description of— D. S. Jordan; C. M. Gii.bkut. (P. \Hi2) r)18 

vcntralis, description of— G. B. Goode ; T. H. Bean. (P. 1885) (ioO 

Civil Engineers, London, Institution of. Prize questions, (li. 18t)'2) 150 

Clackamas River, Oregon, notes on fishes from — D. S. Joiidan. (P. 1878) 332 

Cladocarpns tlexilis, new species, description of — A. E. Veiuull. (P. 1885) G50 

Clahk, H. J. — 

Lucernaria^". and tLeir allies, anatomy, physiology, and relations of 242 

Memoir of, by A. S. Packard 242 

Clark, \V. M., Antiquities of Tennessee. (R. 1877) 323 

Clakke, Fladgatk, and Fixcil. Residuary legacy of Smithson. (R. 18(51) 149,328 
Clarke, F. W. — 

Biograpliy of atomic volume, specilic gravity, etc 255 

Circular No. 26, Appendix: Plan for a collection of gems and precious 
stones, to be exhibitedat the Cincinnati Industrial Exposition and the 
World's Industrial and Cotton Centennial Exposition of 1884-'85, at 

New Orleans. (P. 1884) 607 

constants of Nature. Part V 50(i, 441 

recalculation of atomic weights 441 

Report on Department of Mineralogy, National Museum, for 1884. (R 

1884, II) r,48 

Report on Department of Minerals, National Museum, for 1885. (R. 

1885,11) 054 

Specilic gravities, boiling and melting points, chemical formuliu, tables. 255 

Specilic gravities, etc. Supplementary tables 288 

Specilic heat tables for solids and liquids 276 

Tables of expansion by heat, for solids and li([uids 289 

Classification and arrangement of materia-medica collection — J. M. Flint. (P. 

1881) 407,450 

Classification and sj^nopsis of tvocluUdkv — D. G. Elliot 317 

Classification of— 

birds, review of the- W. Lilljeborg. (R. 1805) 20[), 364 

books on the— .1. P. Lesley. (R. 1802) l.")0 

clouds— A. POEY. (R. 1870) 244 

coleoptera. Part i— J. L. LeConte 136 

coleoptera. Part li — J. L. Le Conte 255 

coleoptera of North America— J. L. Le Conte; G. H. Horn 505,507 

collection to illustrate aniuuil resonuces of United States— G. B. GoODE 297 

collectionsof U. S. National Museum- G. B. GoODE. (P. 1881) 407,457 

collections of U.S. Natioiml Museum to illustrate taxidermy — W. T. IIoRN- 

aday. (P. 1881) 407,456 

food collections— G. B. Goode. (P. 1881) 407,455 

forms in which drugs and medicines apiiear and are administered — J. M. 

Flint. (P. 1881) 407,451 

insects from embryological data — L. Agassiz 16 

materia medica collection in N.tional Museum— .1. M. Flint. (P. 1883). 548, 539 
materia medicacolltsction. National Museum— J. M. Flint; H. G. Beyer. 

(P. 1885) 0.50,622 

methods of capture and utilization of animals — G. B. Goode 297 

Classified lint of— 

meteorological pnl)lieati()n8 and articles in periodicals received by Smithso- 
nian Institution. (R. 1873) 275 

publicatious of Smithsonian Institution 480 



CATALOGUE OK PUBLICATIONS. G81 

CI.'issil'M'd i-ccord ol' — 

nictcoi'ological iiia((!ri;il presoivcd in Siiiithsoni:m. (R. 1H~1) -JSii 

monthly uictoorolojfical rci)()rts. (K. 18715) 275 

Clear Fork ofCumbculaud Kiver, Koutncky, fislios (;(tllcchHl in, lint of— D. S. .lou- 

DAN' ; C. H. (JiLHKKT. (1\ 1883) ; 4H 

Cl.KAVr.LAXl), p. — 

iletoorulogical observations at IWnnsw ick, Me 204 

I'Totice of, by J. Hknky. (R. l^')'.)) HO 

Cl.KMEXS, B. — 

Instrnctions for eollccting IiynienoptcM-a. (K. l8r)S) lOL) 

lustrnctions for collectini;- lei>idoi)tor:i. (R. 18.')8) lU'J 

On lei)idoi)tera 13;j 

Climate. See Meteorology. 

and history of New Mexieo— T. A. McPai:mx. {U. 1877) :!v!;i, 396 

of Alaska— H. M. I3AXXisri;i;. (R. I8(i()) 214 

of California — T. ^'. Locax. (R. 18.'').'')) 77 

of Colorado — J. K\'a\s. (R. 18G5) 2(i'.t 

of Kansas— Iv. S. Kij.iorr. (R. 1870) 2-14 

of Kelley's Island, Ohio— G. C. Huxtixgion. (R. hSlUi) 214 

of San Francisco— II. GiiJBuxs. (R. 18r)4) 7.'> 

Climatic indiiencc of forests — M. Bkcqukrki,. (R. 18()'J) 2'2S 

Clixgmax, T. L. Topography of Black Monntain, N. C. (R. IS.");")) 77 

Clinton Connty, Mich., ancient mounds in— M. T. Leach. (R. 1884) (iiO, Gxi:; 

Clinton, N. Y. — See llannlton College. 
Cliola— 

camnra, new species of, in National Mnseum, description of — D. 8. Josidax ; 

S. E. Meek. (P. 1884) : G07 

(hybopsis) topeka, descriiition of— C. H. Gilkekt. (P. 1844) ()07 

urostigma, new species, in National Mnsonni, description of — 1). S. .Iukdax: 

S. E. Meek. (P. 1884) G07 

Closing of Kennebec River, Maine — R. II. Gardixeu. (R. 18.')8) lU'J 

Cloth, fragment of; from inoiuid in Ohio, report on — J. G. IIuxT. (P. 188;!)... .048 

Clond-bnrsts— W. J. YouxG. (R. 18(57) 'Jl.') 

Clond, dispersion of, by an electrical discharge — D. W. Naiee. (R. 1S">8) lO'.t 

(.'louds — 

electncity of induction in — F. Zantedescim. (R. 1870) 'J44 

formation of, over Gulf Stream — II. M. Baxxister. (R. 18G0) 214 

new classilication of— A. PoEY. (R. 1870) 244 

nomenclature of 347 

Clnpt^a tyraunus of Latrobe — G. B. (iooDE. (P. 187S) 'XVi 

Clu.ss, A. Report of archit(?(;t. (R. 1SC)7) 21."> 

Ci.iTSS AND SCHULZE, report of— 

for 1871>. (R. 1879) :U.->. 409 

for 1880. (R. 1880) 442,434 

for 1881. (R. 1881) nir. 

for 1884. (R. 1884) G2:5 

Cluster Hies, note on— W.H. Dale. (P. 1882) 518 

Cr.YMEK, II. — 

Memorial of J. llEXJtY - •^'>6 

and otliers. Report on Mnsenm. {U. 1S7(')) 2'.)9 

Coal — 

Chinese and .Tapancse, analyses of — J. A. Maci»<>xali> 202 

Chinese, fossil plants in— .1. S. Newberry 202 

lecture on— J. Le Conte. (R. 18.')7) 107 

oils, oxplosibility of— Z. Aelex. (R. 18:11) 149 



682 CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS .. 

Coiist- - 

uoilheusteiu, of Auieriea, iuvertebiata ot" the, receut additious to the, uotice 

of— A. E. Verkill. (P. 1883) 650 

of the United States, first occurreuce of Pseudotriacis luicrodou ou the — T. 

ILBean. (P. 1883) r>4a 

faurvey exjjeditiou of 18GG to determiue transathmtic longitude — B. A. 

Gould 'i23 

survey soundings on Atlautie coast, examination of — J. W. Bailey 20 

Cobalt (ammonia) bases — W. Gibbs; F. A. Genth 83 

Cobden, III., ancient remains near — F. M. Farrell. (R. 1881) 18I,r)15 

Cochrane, J. Antiquities of Mason County, 111. (R.1877) 323 

CODD, J. A. Acknowledgment for books. (R. 1861) 149 

Code of symbols for charts of archaeology — G. de Moutillet ; E. Chaxtre. (R. 

1875) 298 

Coffin, J. H. — 

Orbit and phenomena of meteoric fire ball 221 

Psychrometrical. tables 87 

Storms of 1859 182 

Winds of the globe 268 

Winds of the Northern Hemisphere 52 

Coffin, S. J. Tables and maps of winds of the globe 208 

Cogswell, J. G. Report ou Jewett's general stereotype catalogue of public 

libraries 47 

Coins — 

assay of gold and silver, at United States mint — J. Pollock. (R. 18G8) 224 

table of foreign, gold and silver. (R. 18G8) 224 

COLDING, A. — 

Meteorology. (R.1877). 323,398 

Nature of currents of air. (R.1877) 323,398 

Theory of relation between pressure and the velocity of the wind. (R. 

1877) 323,398 

Whirlwind at St. Thomas in August, 1871. (R, 1877) 323,398 

Coleoptera — 

catalogue of the described, of the United States— F. E. Melsheimek 62 

classification of. Part i — J.L.LeConte 136 

chissificalion of. Part ii — J. L. Le Conte 265 

instructions for collecting— J. L. Le Conte. (R. 1858) 109 

new species of North American. Part i— J. L. Le Conte 167 

new species of North American. Part ii— J. L. Le Conte 264 

of Arctic America— S. H. Scudder 312 

of Kansas and eastern New Mexico — J. L. Le Conte 126 

of North America, list of— J. L. Le Conte 140 

of North America, classification of the — J. L. Le Conte ; G. II. Horn . ..505, 507 
Colima, Mexico — 

Xantus collection of fishes from, catalogue of— D. S. Jordan; C. H. Gil- 
bert. (P.1882) 518 

eruption of the volcano of— C. Sartorits. (R. 18G9) 228 

Collaborators of Smithsonian Institution, directory of 4G6 

Collecting — 

and preserving diptera, directions for— C. R. 0.stex Sacken 102 

and preserving fish, directions for— T. II. Bean. (P. 1881) 407,464 

and preserving plants, directions for— L. F. Ward 460 

insects, directions for — A. S. Packard 261 

insects, instructions for— S. F. Baird. (R. 1858) 109 

land and fresh-water shells, instructions for— J. Lewis. ( R. 18GG) 214, 363 



i 



CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 683 

CoUcctinij — Continued. 

rnicro:5copic organisms, directions for G'A 

moths, directions for— C. II. Feunalo. (P. 1834) GOT, 600 

myriapods, pbalangid;o, etc.— II. C. Wood. (R. 18GG) 2U 

nests and eggs, instructions for — T. M. Brkwku 139 

nests and eggs of birds — S. F. Baird. (R. 1858) 101) 

North American shells, circular in reference to 17G 

specimens, directions for — S. F. Baiud. (R. IH.")^) 1)1, 34 

specimens of diatoraacea, directions for — A. AI. Kdwakd.s 366 

specimens of natural history — S. F. Baiud 34 

Collection — 

and preservation of marine invertebrates— W. Stimpsox 'M 

archtcological, of U. S. National Museum — C. Rau 287 

made in Japan in 1883, ornithological notes on — P. L. JoUY. (P. 1883; r)48 

obtained in 1879 from the Indians of Now Mexico and Arizona, illustrated 

catalogue of the— J. Stevexson. (E. 1880-81) 543 

of ethnological specimens from Ugashagmut tribe, Alaska, catalogue of — 

W. J. Fisher. (P. 1383) 548 

of I)irds from Cozumel, Yucatan, by steamer .llbatroas, catalogue of — R. 

Ridgway. (P. 1885) C50 

of birds from Lower California, second catalogue of — L. Bei.dixg ; R. 

Ridgway (editor). (P. 1883) 548 

of birds from Nicaraugua — C. C Nuttixg. (P. 1883) 548 

of birds made by J. E. Benedict and W. Nye— R. Ridgway. (P. 1884) G07 

of Bureau of Ethnology made in 1881, illustrated catalogue of— W. II. 

Holmes. (E. 18.-il-'82) Oi'A 

of fishes from Pensacola, Fla., obtained by Silas Stearns, notes on — D. S. 

Jordax. (P.1884) (507 

of fishes from Washington Territory, by J. G. Swan, notes on — T. H. Beax. 

(P. 1883) • 548 

of iishes made in 1882 and 1883 in Alaska and British Columbia, by Capt. H. 

E. Nichols, notes on— T. H. Bean. (P. 1883) 548 

of historical documents in Guatemala — C. H. Berexdt. (R. 187G) 209 

of insects made in the vicinity of New Orleans, La. — R. W. Siiufeldt. 

(P.1884) C.(i7 

of medusiB made by Fish Commission steamer Albatross — J. W. Fewkes. 

(P. 1885) G50 

of meteorological tables — A. Guy'OT 31,153 

of shells sent from Florida by H. Hemphill— W. H. Dall. (P. 1883) 548 

on the of Maine building stones in National Muaenm — G.P.Merrill. (P. 

1883) 548 

to illustrate animal resources and fisheries of the United States, exhibited 

at Philadeliihia in 187G, catalogue of— G. B. Goode 326 

to illustrate animal resources of United States, classification of— G. B. 

Goode 297 

Collections. See Ethnographical. 

additions to. (See each annual report.) 

furnished by exploration from 1838 to 1877— S. F. Baird. (R. 1877) 323 

in arcliEBology and ethnology, circular relative to — J. Hkxuy 205 

made by Lieut. G. K. Warren, report on— F. B. Meek ; F. V. IIaydex 172 

of living reptiles, circular relating to 320 

presented to United States by foreign commissioners at Centennial Exhibi- 
tion, list of. (R. 187G.) '- 299 

to illustrate art of taxidermy— W. T. IIornaday. ( P. 1881) 467, 456 



(;.S4 CA'l'AI/)fjnK OK I'lJULK-'ATloNM. 

(jullcdIorH of - 

(MIhIoimh (i) yiH'A'iM', .'iiiil I liiiiHiiiil n|)(iriiii<Mi.s ( o I he Siiiil iiHouiaii ;M 

(Irn^jH, iii(',iii(>r:ui(lii (or — ,J. M. I''mni'. (I*. IHHI ) 1(17, 452 

(Jolloj^o. *SV,'r; (iiruid, Iliimilloii, JJlKiiiu. 

('()ll(i<;«'H in rnilcd St:itcH in concmiKiiidciico wiMi .SinitliHoniiin l|iHt., lint <il" lilirJ 

(Nir.i.i.NS, ( (ilniicl. Mclcoroloify oi' tlic-, (Jiccii Iiivcr coimtry. (U. |H71) 2V.) 

Co I -I. INS. J. \V., I'cjMir I on nii\iil iircliilrcl un^ Hcclioii, N.il ion;il Mm sen mi, I'oi' li-'-'l. 

( It. I HHl 1 1 J CIH 

('ollodi'M 1 nhntil M.s, Mfw HpfcicH CroMi KonI li coiihI of N«'\v Kn;4liin<l, dcNft ipl ion oC 

s. I. s.vimi. (I', ihh:',) nnt 

( .'oliir()|)nH — 

hirnlidnruH, iKrvv name, '\\(ii\,i.. (!'. 1HH4) fid/ 

ni'w j^onMH, (l(iH(!rij)l ion <d' 'I', (ii r.i,. (I*. 1884) fluT 

( 'oluni.'i, 'I'oviir, V(!n(!/n(.'l;i 

Hiclcorolooy ii,n(l cUiiKdoMy of. A. I'knm.kk. (li. 1857) In7 

iniitcoidlo^'y (d" — A. 1''kniii.i;u. (\i. IrtlKi) 'Jl I 

(/'(dor;iilo — 

UMcionI, rental iiH in — E. L. JJkktih)UI>. {II. lHfj7) '2U> 

cliinal.o of— J. KVA.NH. (1{. iHOf)) 'JOt» 

cicfaceonH foHHiln from— (^ A. Willi lo. (I'. IHHI) 4(17 

(I(W('ri|)t-ioMH of new invei'f»3))ra.t.() foHHiJH from — C A. WiniK. (I'. IHHD) 4'J."> 

lie,i;.;Iit.s of nioiiMhilMH Im -G. KN(JKI,MAN.\. ( R. lH(i2) !.'>() 

.Irll'eiHuM and ( Mear (Jrc.ek CoiiiilJeH, anfii|MitieH — (». L. (Jannon. (It. 1H77) '.ViW. 

\V<dd CoHMly, aiififinitieHof— K. L. i'.KiMiK.ni). (U. 1871) 24il 

Color iilindMe.HH—.). IFknuy. (R. 1H77) :«:: 

A. MoKjNo. (R. 180!;) yii 

in ilM reiafioiiH to ac.eldenis by rail and hcu — V. ]FoLM<ilMCN. (R. 1877).. IJiii, 399 

Colored head fiom mound in I'Morida A. M. IIakkihon. (R. 1H77) '.'>'.l'.', 

(JoIoi'H — 

ac.ciidenlal oi- HMlijeei ive A. M(»i(;.N<). ( R. lH(i(i) "J I I 

life, of ereninol>;ileH inlc^iripianiH- R. S.Miiii. (I'. )88;5) r)4H 

( '(dnmhia 

l)iHlri(!l. of, areli;eolo;;ie,a,l miip of tlnv - L. K. KlCN(ll,.\ Ti:!? 

River, {.'liinook iianieH of .salmon in -S. 15. S.virni. ()'. I8H1) 4(17 

Iviver, /SV(7»i««/y/n' of — C. niCNDiiiK. (!'. IHHJ ) 4(i7 

(,'onil>MHtrion of ^nM-<u»lton and fijMM|io\vder, produelH of — Li<Mit. V«)X KaI!<)I,yi ; 

I'.. !■'. Cuak;. (R. I HIM) IH-I 

(Cornel,, inveHli^aticMiH of iliela'H — ,1. S. IluHnAKD. (R. 18(W) I.')!) 

( 'oniels, direct ioiiH for fcNtj^ra-inH of dicicovcry of 'Jii:! 

Co.MKoirr, A. .1. Imlian monndM neiir fori, \Va,(ls\vorMi, 1 )a,Kot;i-. (R-. 1871)... tlV.i 

(Joniminander la!;iiidH 

lilHl-ory of file,, eoiitrilMilioiiH lo Mk! — 

No. I.— Notes on the natural lilHfory — L. Sri;,i.\K(ih;i:. (R. IHH:',) .'')48 

No. y.— InvcHtigiitioiiH reliitin;^ to Sl,(dle,'.s H(^•l-eo\v - !>, Stimnkckk. 

(P. 1884) (;()7 

No. :i.— R(ii)()rfcon fli(! MolhiNea— \V. II. Dam.. (I'. 1884) <'i'l7 

No. 4.- NotcH iiiion the planlH eolleeted A.(ii:AV. (V. 1884) (1(17 

i^lo. 4/(. Adflllional notes on the |)1.iiiIh e(dleeti'd — L. .S'l'IUNia; Kit. 

(!'. 1884) (107 

No. f). — Now HpocicH of Mosoplodon — I'WV. 'ritui;. (1'. 188.")) <>•'''•• 

niolliiHca of, (;olle.cl(Ml hy L. Sfciijnof-er, report, on. (!'. 18H1) <H'7 

iiafnral lilHt-ory of the, iiofe.s on the — I;. STK.iXK(iKU. (P. IHrlJ) .^'18 

ornit-holo^fieal exploralioiiH in -L. .SriciNKdicit 624 

jiIjuiIn of the:, additional notes on t.h(^ — L. STK.iNKCiKi!. (I*. 18H4) (1(17 

plaiifH ('oliecdcd on, iioLeH on— A. (JUA Y. ( 1'. 1H84) ()"7 

undeHcrihed bird.s from, colleiited hy L. Slejneycr— R,. Riikjway. (J*. 1883). r>48 



CATALOGUE OF rilULICATIONS. GH5 

CoiiiiiiiHsion, National Muhcumi. Sre Miiscnni. 

CoiniiiiHsionor (if ralcnts. Mctcoroloj^ical ohstTvations — 

Vol. 1 157 

Vol. II 132 

Coinniisaioocrs for Forci<^n Mis.sioiis. Sec Anicrican Board. 

CoiiiiiiiHHioiicrs, report of, on plan of forming general stereotype eatalognc! for 

public librarien iu United .StatcH. {11. IP.'iO) W,i7 

Conmiiltce of American Association for Ad van ('emeu t of Science. K'ejiort on nie- 

t(M)rology. (K. IS.')!) r^^ 

Conimitte(> of liogents. Sec llegents. 
Committee. See Report. 
Comparative — 

action of dry lieat and sulpliiirouH aeid U]inn pntrefaelive liiicteiia (I'. 

IHHl) ,1(;7 

Com])arative. Anatomy — F. W. TiaiK. Keport on Department of Comiiarative 

Anatomy, National Museum, for 188."). (R. 1885, ii) C)'ti 

phonology of Four Sioux Languages— Kov. .J. OWKN Doksey. (R. Ish;;). r.');!, 

r.8s, 605 

vocabulary— A. Gai.i.atix ](;o 

vocabulary, English, Spanish, l'"rcneli, Latin — 0.(iii;i!.s 170 

Comjiasscs, deviations of, on iron-clad — W. IIakkxicss •j:j<) 

Concerning the lending of type specimens— S. F. Baiki). (l*. 188()) 637 

Conchology, North American, bil)Iiograpliy of — 

Part I. American authors — W. G. Bi.n.nkv 142 

Part 11. I'oreign autliors— W. G. I!inxey 174 

Conchology. >See Mollusks, Sliells. 

Concise, arclueological researches at — F. Trovox. (R. 18()1) 141) 

CoxDOUCKT, biography of, by F. Aixaco. (R. 1878) VAl 

Conc-in-cone— H. Pooi.K. (R. 186:!) 1H7 

Conglomerate from Beiks County. Note on— G. 1'. I\Ii;iii;ii.i.. (B. 1882) fjlS 

Congress — 

International Antliro])ologicai, address at — I''. F. Romku. (iJ. 1-*7('>) 2'J1», 392 

luternational Archaeological, Antwerp, 18(;(). (R. 18()(;) 0)4 

ofCarlsruhe, 18.^)8, sci(!ntific—l'\ . I. Nicfei.Ks. (R. 18(;u) 117 

United States — 

act of, accepting bc(|uest, July 1, I8:i(;. (R. 185:5) (w, :'.-J8,N 

act of, to establish Smithsonian Institution. (R. 185:5). G7, 32',), 391, B, N, O 
act of, lo establish Smithsonian Institution, constrnetion of — J. McB. 

Bkijiuex. (R. 185:5) (17 

act of, to establish Smithsonian, digest of— .J. IIkxi:v '.I'M, C 

act of, to receive residuary legacy and increase fund. (R. IK(JG) '2M,:52'J 

act of, to transfer Smithsonian lilirary to l^ilnary of Congress. (R. 

1865) w<.),:v>8 

acts of (Forty-fifth Congress), relative to Smithsoniaii. (R. 1878) :'>11 

acts of (Forty-fifth and Forty-sixth (.'ongresses), relative to Smithso- 
nian, 1878-1880. (R. 1879) .' :;.15 

acts of (Forty-seventh Congress), relative to Smithsonian. (R. 1681 ; 

R. 1882 ; R. 1883 ; R. 1884 ; R. 1885) 515, 440, 59:5, 023, G1!> 

memorial of J. Henry published by order of 356 

UKsmorial of licgents to, asking appropriations for Museum. (R. 18ti<;; 

1!. 1807) 214,215,:528 

memorial of Regents to, relative to new Museum building. (R. 1870).. 2'J'J 

memorial of Regents to, relative to Siiiithson fund. (R. 1850) 28 

proceedings of, relative to appropriations for ^Museum 328 

proceedings of, relative to inonument of ,1, Henry 350 



686 CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 

Congress — Coutiniicd. 
United States - 

proceedings of, relative to new Museum building 328 

proceedings of, relative to Sinitbson bequest ^ 328 

proceedings of, relative to Smithsonian Institution, 1835-1877 328 

Connecticut — 

Academy of Arts and Sciences, planisphere of the heavens by 359 

ancient implement of wood from— E. W. Ellstvortu. (K. 187G) 299 

East Windsor, antiquities of— E. W. Ellsworth. (R. 1881) 515,481 

Couovon serrifer, description of— D. S. Jordax ; C. H. Gilbert. (P. 1882) 518 

Conosaurus, memoir on — E. "W. Gibbes 14 

Conrad, C. M., Secretary of War. Authority to officers of Quartermaster's De- 
partment to receive and transmit specimens to Smithsonian 34 

Conrad, T. A.— 

Chalk found in the United States. (R. 1865) 209 

Check-listof invertebrate fossils of North America. Eocene al^d oJigocene 200 

Consanguinity and affinity of the human family — 

Circular— L. H. Morgan 138 

systems of— L. II. Morgan 218 

Constantinople, account of hail storm at— Commodore Pouter. (R. 1870) 247 

Constants of Nature— 

and art, tables of-C.BACBAGE. (R. 1856) 91 

Part I. Specific gravitiep, boiling and melting points, and cheiTiioal form- 

nl:e—F. W. Clarke 255 

Part IL Table of specific heats for solids and liquids— F. W. Clarice 276 

Part III. Tablesof expansion by heat for solids and liquids — F.W.Clarke. 289 

Part IV. Atomic weight determinations— G. F. Becker 506, 358 

Part V. Recalculation of atomic weights— F. W.Clarke .500,441 

First supplement to Part i. Specific gravities, boiling points and melting 

points — F. W. Clarke 288 

J.LeConte. (R.1878) 341 

Construction of— 

act establishing Institution— J. McP. Berrien. (R. 1853) 67 

catalogues of libraries— C.C.Jewett 47 

silvered glass telescope — II. Draper 180 

Contact, catalytic force or phenomena of— T. L. Phipson. (R. 1832) 150 

Contaxaki, Miss E. B., present of album from Greece. (R. 1857) 107,327 

Contopus — 

depressirosiris, new species of, from Nicaragua — C. C. Nutting. (P. 1883). . 548 

pileatus, description of — R. Eidgway. (P. 1885) 650 

Contrast of colors— A. MoiGXO. (R. 1866) 214 

Contribution to — 

history of fresh- water algte of North America — II. C. Wood 241 

the terminology of ichthyography — T. Gill. (P. 1884) 607 

Contributions — 

of aboriginal antiquities to Museum, circular relative to — C. Rau. (P. 

1883) 548,572 

to Annals of Philosophy— J. Smituson. (R. 1853) 67, 3:'.0 

to history of marine algte of North America. See W. II. Harvey. 

to Knowledge, Vols, i-xxv 2, 26, 38, 39, 55, 56, 76, 78, 92, 99, 111, 112, 

151, 184, 206, 211, 229, 246, 272, 284, 285, 340, 346, 547, 606 

to Knowledge, catalogue of, and index 478 

to National Museum, and their acknowledgment. (P. 1881) 467,473 

to natural history of — . 

Arctic America — L. Kiimlikn 342 



CATALOGUE OF PU1>1.ICAT10NS. 687 

Contributions — Continued. 

Bernuidiis— J. M. JoNKS ; G. B. Goodk 5(5:5, r>G4, no."), i'tiC, .'(;r, :>(;-, :,(;;), 495 

Fanning Islands — T. H. Stijkets Ito;; 

frosh-water fishes of North Ameiicii — C. Gikako 30 

Hawaiian Ishinds — T. II. Stukets Do ; 

Keri;ueU'n Island. I. Ornitholojry — E. CouKS 'j;(.; 

Korj^uelnn Island. 11. Oulo<ry, hotany, etc.— ,1. II. Kiddeu and oiiicrs. -J'.it 

Lower California — T. II. Streets ilo.; 

to North American ichthyolo<^y — 

Part I. Review Bafniesqne's memoirs — D. S. Jordan 305 

Part II. Notes on Coil'uJct ; synopsis ,Si7Mn'(7cc — D.S.Jordan,.. 306 

Part III. Fishes Alleghany ro<;ion ; synopsis Crt^os^onu'rfo' — D. 8. .Joi;|)an : 

A. W. Brayton 308 

to physical geography of United States— C. Eli.et, Jr ' 13 

to the history of the Commander Islands. See Commander Islands. 

toward monograph of the pandoridae — P. P. C arpenteu 2.')'J 

Converging series expressing ratio between diameter and circiiinl'crence of 

circle— W. Ferrel 233 

Cook, C. Manufacture of porpoise oil. (P. 1878) :'.:;j 

Cooper, J. G. — 

Distribution of forests and trees of North America, and catalogue of native 

trees of United States. (R. 1858) 109,351 

Forests and trees of Florida and Mexican boundary. (R 18t)0) 117 

Migrations and nesting habits of west coast birds. (P. 1879) '•V-\-j 

Coosawattee, Old Town, Ga., silver crosses from Indian grave-mound at — Dr. 

Charles C, Jones, Jr. (R. 1881) 515, 481 

Coot (Fulica caribsea) new species, from the West Indies — R. Ridgwav. (P. 

1884) <5"7 

Cope, E. D. — 

Contents of a bone cave in the island of Anguilla 489 

Genera and species of rattlesnakes !•'•' 

North America batrachia and reptilia 292 

Zoological position of Texas *12 

Copepova, parasitic, from American waters, annotated list of describe<l speci- 
mens in U. S. National- Museum— R. Rathbun. (P. 1^84) (107 

Coppee, II. Report of Committee on Smithsonian Museum. (R lr;74) L'8() 

Copper and iron in salt water, preservation of— A. E. Becqukrkl. (R. 1-^()4).. 188 
Cop])er — 

implements from Bayfield, Wis.-C. Whittlesey. (R. 1885) (;i9,f)45 

Islands. See Commander Islands. 

region, circular, ancient mining in Lake Superior- J. IIann. (R. 1801) . .. 149 

Coptic language, introduction to the study of the— M. Kabis. (R. 18(57) -'15 

Copyright — 

books from 1846-1849, list of— C. C. Jewett. (R. 1850) 28 

system and Smithsonian library— C. C. Jewett. (R. 1851) 51 

Copyrights, circular respecting — J. Henry. (R. 18.54) '•> 

(J!orbiculadiP, American, monograph of— T. Prime 145 

Corcoran Art Gallery — 

list of deposits in, by Smithsonian Institution. (R. 1874) ~"'*j 

report of Committee of Regents on. (R. 1872) 2/1 

Corcoran, W. W. Deed of gift establishing Art Gallery. (R. 1872) 271 , :5-J9 

Cordoba, Argentine Republic, account of astronomical observatory at— B. A. 

Gould. (R. 187:5) '^^-^ 

regonus nelsonii, new species of, description of— T. H. Bean. (P. 1884) ()()7 



688 CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 

Corner-stone of Suiithsouiau building — 

address at laying — G. M. Dallas D, 3-20 

ceremonies at laying of. (R. 1647) H, iWU 

Coronado's march in search of the "seven cities of Cibola" — J. II. Smrsox. 

(R. 1869) - 228,561 

Correspondence — 

abstracts of anthropological— O. T. Masox. (R. 1880) 442 

anthropological, abstracts from. (R. 1881 ; R. 1882; r)1.5,540 

extracts from. (R. 1855, 1858-18G:3, 1865-18li7, 187:!). .77, 10'.), 110, 147, 14"), 150, 187, 

209,214,215,275 

meteorological — E. Foreman. (R. 1851) 51 

on astronomical announcements. (R. 1883) 593 

relative to publication of memoir by Squier and Davis K 

relative to Smithson and his bequest 328 

summary of anthropological. (R. 1879) 345 

Correspondents — 

domestic, list of. (R.18.53; R. 1872) (i;, 271, 69, 238 

foreign, list of. (R. 18G4 ; R. 18G5 ; R. 1885) 188, 209, 64, 154, 225, 243, 309, 

469, 490, 635 
foreign, systematic index of 257 

Coryphiena hippurus — 

notes on— T. IT. Bean. (P. 1885) 050 

notes on -S. Steakns. (P. 1885) G.50 

Coryphtenoides gulcatus, description of— G. B. Goode ; T. II. Bean. (P. 1885).. G50 

Costa Rica — 

birds from La Palma—C. C. Nutting. (P. 1882) 518 

birds of, catalogue of— J. C. Zeledon. (P. 1885) G50 

kitchen-midden, note on shells from — \V. II. Dall. (P. 1878) 332 

minister, letter of, recommending Dr. Bcrendt. (R. 18G5) 209 

notes on birds of— R. Ridgway. (P. 1878; P. 1881) 332, 4G7 

Nutting, collection of birds from, catalogue of— R. Ridgway. (P. 1882) 518 

the Guatusa Indians of— Don Leon Feknandez. (R. 1882) 540 

two new birds from, description of— R. Ridgway. (F. 1885) G.")0 

University of, exchange of specimens. (R. 18G7) 215 

Costa Rican birds, with description of several supposed species (Empidouax viri- 

desceus and Pittasoma michlcri zeledoni) — R. Ridgway. (P. 1883).. 548 

Cottidre — 

description of a new genus and .species of — W. N. LOCKIXGTON. (P. 1881).. 4G7 
notes on— D. S. Johdan 30G 

Cottoids, monograph of— C Girard 30 

Cotton — 

amount of crop, and price in Japan — Japanese Legation. (P. 1881) 407 

Centennial Exposition. Sec World's Industrial, etc., at New Orleans. 

collection of samples, catalogue of— S. M. Inman. (P. 1882) 518 

fiber, catalogue of Japanese, presented to National Museum. (P. 1881) 4G7 

Cottus — 

bubalis, Euphrason, identical with Cottus maculatus, Fischer— T. II. Bean. 

(P. 1885) or.o 

maculatus, Fischer, identical with Cottus bubalis — T. II. Bean. (P. 1885).. ()50 
Couss, E.— 

birds of Kerguelen Island 293 

list of faunal publications relating to British birds. (P. 1879) 333 

oology of Kerguelen Island 294 

CoUES E. ; Kidder, J. II. Study of Chionis minor 294 

CoUES, E. ; Prentiss, D. W. Avifauna columbiana 500 



CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 6S9 

CouEs, E. ; Prkxtiss, S. S. List of birds of District of Columbia. (Rl.-^Gl) 149 
Cox. S. S.— 

Address, memorial of Joseph llcnry ;j5g 

Eulogy on Stephen A. Douglas. (R. 18G1) 1-10 329 

Cozumel, Yucatan — 

^?6a</-oss collection of birds from, catalogue of— R. EiDGWAY. (P. 1863) GoO 

new hawk from, description of — R. Ridgway (P. 18S5) G50 

Creek Indians, primitive store-house of tlie— C. C. Joxks, Jr. (R. 1863) G13,G49 

Craig, B. F. Nitrification. (R. 18G1) 149 

Craig, Lieut, vox Karolyi. Products of combustion of gun-cotton and 

gunpowder. (R. 1864) iqq 

Cvaigiiou-ader of Europe (Gltjjitocejybalus cynoglossus) on coast of North Amer- 
ica— G. B. Goode ; T. II. Beax. (P. 1878) 332 

Crania Helvetica— F. TrOyox. (R. 18G4) 183 

Craw-fish, circular of inquiries relative to. 319 

Creation, visible, lecture on vastness of— S. Alexander. (R. 1S37) 107 

Creek Indians, system of relationship of— E. A.. Watkixs. (R. 18G2) 130 

Cremnobates — 

integripiunis, life color of— R. Smith. (P. 186:5) 543 

nox, new species, description of— D. S. Jordan ; C. II. Gilijkrt. (P. 1834) 607 

occurrence of, at San Diego, California — R. Smith. (P. 1880) 425 

Cressox, J. C. Lightning discharges. (R. 1867) 213 

Cretaceous — 

fossils, check-list of — F. B. Meek 177 

fossils from Arkansas and Colorado — C. A. White. (P. 1881) 467 

reptiles of United States— J. Leidy. (R. 1864) :. 133,192 

Cricetodipus parvus, arare rodent — F. W. True. (P. 1881) 467 

Crinoids, stalked, collected by steamer Allaiross in 1884 and 1863, report on — 

R. Rathbun. (P. 1885) 650 

Criocardium, note on— C. A. White. (P. 1879) 333 

Crook, G. Indian mode of making arrow-heads and obtaining firo. (R. 1871) 249 
Crosses, silver, from an Indian grave mound at Coosawatte Old Town, Murray 

County, Ga. — Dr. Charles C. Joxes, jr. (R. 1881) 461,515 

Crozetflora— J. H. Kidder 294 

Crummell,A. Facts respecting Liberia College. (R. IS'il) 110 

Crust of the earth, revolutions of the— G. Pilar. (R. 1876) 299 

Crustacea — 

fresh water, circular of inquiries relative to — 319 

list of, from the coast of Labrador. S. I. Smith. (P. 1683) 548 

marine, of Labrador, review of— S. I. Smith. (P. 1883) 548 

new species of, from Arctic Alaska, description of — J. Murdock. (P. 1664) 607 
notice of, dredged off south coast of New England by Fish Commission— S. 

-I.Smith. (P. 1880) 425 

notice of new species of Willemaesia group of— S. I. S.mith. (P. 1879) 333 

of Hawaiian and Fanning Islands and California— T. A. Streets 303 

Crustacean — 

new (euneplirops haircli), description of— S. L Smith. (P. 1883) 630 

Crustaceans — 

destructive to submarine timber on coastof the United States— S. I. Smith. 

(P. 1879) ■ ---• ^^^ 

decapod, new or little known, from recent Fish Commission dredgings— S. I. 

Smith. (P. 1884) .• '^*^'' 

of the United States at London Fisheries Exhibition in 1383, catalogue of— 

R.RATHBUX 311,521,552 

of Kerguelen Islands— S. L Smith '^^^ 

voices of— G. B. Goode. (P. 1678) : ^'^^ 

H. Mis. 170 41 



690 CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 

Cryolite of Greenland — Lewis; Quale. (E. 1866) 214 

Crytogamous plants, i)re8ent state of knowledge of — W. Eeichardt. (R. 1871) 249 
Cryptotomus beryllinus, new species, description of — D. S. Jordan ; J. Swaix. 

(P. 1884) 607 

Crystalline rocks, metamorpbism and the formation of— G. A. Daubree. (R.1861) 149 

Crystallography, explanation of principles of— A. Brezlxa. (R. 1372) 271,386 

Crystallophysics, explanation of principles of — A. Brezina. (R. 1872) 271,386 

Ctenochastns, new genus, description of — T. Gill. (P. 1884) 607 

Cuba, new species pempheris from — T. H. Bean. (P. 1885) 650 

CuNARD, E. Free freight between United States and England. (R. 1859). ..110, 329 
CULBERTSOX, T. A. — 

Expedition to the Mauvaises Terres and Upper Missouri. (R. 1850) 28 

Indian tribes in Upper Missouri. (R. 1850) 28 

Sioux of the Upper Missouri. (R. 1850) 28 

Culeolus tanneri, new species, description of — A. E. Verrill. (P. 1885) 660 

Cumberland River, Kentucky, Clear Fork of, fishes collected in, list of^D. S. 

Jordan; C. H.Gilbert. (P. 1883) 548 

CUXNINGHAM, K. M. ; Gaines, a. S. Shell heaps on Mobile River. (R. 1877). 323 

Curators of National Museum, reports of, for 1884. (R. 1884) 648 

Currents, electrical, of the earth— C. Matteucci. (R. 1867) 215 

Currents of air — 

and aerial navigation— J. Henry. (R. 1860) 147 

law of variation of temperature in ascending — J. Hann. (R. 1877) .... 323,398 
law of variation of temperature in ascending moist — L. Sohncke. (R. 

1877) 323,398 

nature of— A. COLDiNG. (R. 1877) , 323,398 

relation between barometric variations and — M. Peslin. (R. 1877) 323,398 

Curtiss, A. H., notes on collection of fishes made by — D. S. Jordan. (P. ISSO) 425 
CUSHING, F. H. — 

Antiquities of Orleans County, N. Y. (R. 1874) 286 

Study of Pueblo pottery ^ 652 

Zuni Fetiches. (E. 1880-'81) 542 

Customs, collectors of, to receive and transmit specimens to Smithsonian 34 

CUTTS, J. B. Ancient relics in northwestern Iowa. (R. 1872) 271 

CuviER, Baron G. — 

. History of the works of, by M. Flourens. (R. 1868) 224 

Memoir of, by M. Flourens. (R. 1868) 224 

Memoir of Ren6 Just Haiiy. (R. 1860) 147 

Memoir of Priestley. (R. 1858) 109 

Cyanocorax cucullatus, description of — R. Ridgway. (P. 1885) 650 

Cybium, notes on American species of — F. Poey. (P. 1878) 332 

Cyclone in the Indian Ocean— N. Pike. (R. 1867) 215 

CyclophoridsB- W. G. Binney 144 

Cygninae, monograph on the, outline of— L. Sts:jneger. (P. 1882) 518 

Cymatogaster rosaceus—D. S. Jordan ; C.H.Gilbert. (P. 1880) 425 

Cymbilanius lineatus fasciatus, new subspecies from Nicaragua — C. C. Nutting. 

(P. 1883) 548 

Cymopolia gracilis, new species of, from south coast of New England, descrip- 
tion of— S. L S.MITH. (P. 1883) 548 

Cypiinidfe — 

four new species of, in National Museum, description of — D. S. Jordan ; S. 

E. Meek. (P. 1884) 607 

notes on— D. S. Jordan 306 

species of, described by Dr. Charles Girard, identification of— D. S. Jordan. 

(P. 1885) 650 



CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS G91 

Cyprinodant, new species, description of— D. S. Jokda*; C. H. Gilbert (P 

1882) .....; 513 

C yprinoid fisties of San Francisco market— D. S. Jordax. (P, 1880) 425 

Cytherea couradiana, new species of, from Florida— W. H. Dall. (P. 18S3) 548 

D. 

Daa, L. K. Ethnological museum of Norway. (R. 1862) 150 

Dacentrus, note on— D. S. Jordax. (P. 18S0) 405 

Da Costa, J. M. Ou strain and over-action of tbo heart. Toner lecture Nu. 

"I 279 

Dahlberg, E. K. and C. Ancient pottery at Pittsburg, on Dcs Moines Khcr. 

(R. 1H79) 345 

Dakota — 

bibliography — S. II. RiGGS 40 

fable, A dog's revenge— S. R. RiGGS. (E. 1879-80) 470 

grammar and dictionary — S. R, RiGGS 40 

Fort Wadaworth, Indian mounds near— A. J. Comfort. (R. 1871) 249 

Lincoln County, haystack mound in — A. Barraxdt. (R. 1672) 271 

or Sioux Indians— A. G. Brackett. (R. 187G) 299 

or Sioux Indians, language of— F. L. 0. Roeiirig. (R. 1871) 249,378 

Dall, W. H.— 

Comments on C. R. Orcutt's notes on the mollnsks of the vicinity of San 

Diego, Cal., and Todos Santos Bay, Lower California. (P. 1885) G50 

Contributions to the history of the Commander Islands. No. 3. — Report ou 
the Mollusca of the Commander Islands, Bering Sea, collected by 
Leonhard Stejueger in 1882 and 1883. {Lacunella rtjlcxa, n. s., Plato 
II, Xigs 1-3 ; Ceritlnopsis siejnegeri, n. s., Plate 11, Fig. 4 ; SirombeUa 

callorMna \ar. siejnegeri, Plate 11, Fig.5.) (P. 1884) 607 

Distribution of California tertiary fossils. (P. 1878) 332 

Explorations on western coast of North America. (R. 1873) 275 

Fossil mollnsks from latter tertiaries of California. (P. 1878) ;?32 

Index of Brachiopoda 304 

Limpets and chitons of Alaskan and Arctic regions. (P. 1S78) o32 

Limpets and chitons from eastern coast of United States. (P. 1881) 467 

Mollusks of Arctic America 342 

Mollusks of Kerguelen Island 294 

New mollusks from Alaska in National Museum. (P. 1S78) 332 

New or specially interesting shells of the Point Barrow Expedition. {Bela 
harpa, n. s., B. murdoehiana, n. s., Plate 11, Fig. 8; Chrysodomus 
Kroyeri var. Bayana, var. nov., StromheUa malleaia, n. s.) (P. 1834).. 607 

New species of shells from California in National Museum. ( V. 1878) 332 

Note on Cluster Flies. (P. 1882) ^^>18 

Note on shells from Costa Rica kitchen-midden collected by Drs. Flint and 

Bransford. (P. 1878) 332 

Notes on /some Floridian land and fresh-water shells, with a revisiou of the 
Auriculacea of the Eastern United States with Plates xVli, xviii. 
(SayeUa, n. sg. ; Sydrohia? tveiherbyi, PiqnUa floridana, Pedipcs eJonga- 

tus, SayeUa crosseana, OnchidiumfloridanumjJin.ss.) (P. 1885) 650 

On a collection of shells sent from Florida by Mr. Henry Hemphill. (Leu- 
conia hemphUlii, Phos intricaUis, iliiricidea, Mitra floridana, DriUia thea, 
DrilUa leucocyma, DriUia Umonitella, IJulima liemphillii, PyramideUa 
vincia, Odostomia acutidens, Par then iacedrosa, Tarhonillaviridaria, Tur- 

honxUa /irga, Turhonilla punicea, Cytherea couradiana.) (P. 1883) 548 

On genera of chitons. (P..1881) 467 



692 CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS, 

Dall, W. H. — Coutinued. 

Ou Turltinella pyrum, Lamarck, and its deutitiou (with Plate xix). (P. 

1885) 650 

Postpliocene fossils in coast range of California. (P. 1878) 332 

IJemains of later prehistoric man from caves in Alaska 318 

Report on department of Mollusks, National Museum for 1884. (R. 1884)... 645 
Report on department of Mollnsks, National Museum, for 1885. (R. 1885, ii) . 654 

Dallas, G. M. Address at laying corner-stone of Smithsonian building D, 329 

Dalton, J. C. Origin and propagation of disease. (R. 1873) 275 

Daltonism, etc.— A. MoiGXO. (R. 1866) 214 

Dana, E. S. Account of progress in Mineralogy. (R. 1882 ; R. 1883 ; R. 1884 ; 

R. 1885) 540,593,623,649,531, 580, 615, 639 

Daxilsex, A. F. Mound in East Tennessee. (R. 1863) 187 

Danish Royal Society of Arts and Sciences. Prize questions. (R. 1362, 1865, 

1867) 150,209,215 

Darlington, W. History of Chester County, Pa. (R. 1862) 150 

Darlingtonia Californica — J. TORREY 61 

Darwin, C. Queries about expression for anthropological inquiry. (R. If67) 215 

Dasybatus varidens, notes on — S. Garman. (P. 1885) 650 

Daubree, G. a.— 

Metamorphism and formation of crystalline rocks. (R. 1861) 149 

Synthetic experiments relative to meteorites. (R. 18(53) 224 

Davis, A. C. Antiquities of Isle Royale, Lake Superior. (R. 1874) 286 

Davis, C. H.— 

Law of deposit of liood-tide 33 

Occulta' ions in United States, 1852 29 

Davis, E. IT. On ethnological research*. (R. 1866) 214 

Davis, E. H. ; Squier, E. G. Ancient monuments of Mississippi valley 1 

Dayton, E. A. Explorations in Tennessee. (R. 1870) 244 

Dayton, Ohio, ancient relics at — Aug. A. Foerste. (R. 1883) 538,593 

Deaf mutes, sign language of— G. Mallery. (E. 1879-'80) 476 

Dean, C. K. Mound in Wisconsin. (R. 1872) 271 

Djsan, C. W. Lightning discharges. (R. 1867) 215 

Dean, J. Gray substance of medulla oblongata _ 173 

Dean, Setii, antiquities of Mills County, Iowa. (R. 1881) 4H1,515 

De Beaumont, E. — 

Memoir of C. F. Beautemp8-Beaupr6. (R. 1863) 187 

Memoir of Auguste Bravais. (R. 1809) 228 

Memoirof A. M. Legendre. (R. 1867) 215 

Memoir of H. C. Oersted. (R. 1868) 224 

De Blainville, D., memoir of, by M. Flourens. (R. IS65) 209 

De Candolle, A. — 

Causes which limit vegetable species toward the north. (R. 1858) 109 

Probable future of the human race. (R. 1875) 298 

Report on transactions of Society of Physics and Natural History of Geneva 

for 1802, 1873-1874. (R. 1864; R.'^1875) 188,293 

De Candolle, A.; Gray, J. E. On a dominant language for science. (R. 

1874) 286 

De Candolle, P., memoirof, by M. Flourens. (R. 1859) 110 

Deduction and induction — J. vonLiebig. (R. 1870) 244 

Decapod crustacea, now or little known, froui recent Fish Commission dredg- 

ings— S, L. Smith. (P. 1834) 007 

Deed of — 

foundation of Toner lectures— J. M. Toner. (R. 1872) 271-329 

foundation of Tyndall scientific fund— J. Tyndaix. (R. 1872) 271-329 



CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 693 

Deed of— Continued. 

gift of Art Gallery— W. W. CoRCORAX. ( R. 137-2) -JT I-309 

Doep-sea fish-like vertebrates, now genera and species of, diagnosis of— T. Gill 

(P. 18^3) ;...;.; ^^^^ 

Deep-sea research — K. Ratiibux .")U .v^i 557 

Deep-water mollusca taken off Martha's Vineyard— A. K. Vkkkill. (T. Idi-J) .. alJi 

Deer — 

black-tailed, eastward distribution of— C. Bexdiki:. (P. l^i&Z) .",13 

Virginia, abnormal antlers of — F. W. True. (P. 18S;5) 04S 

De Forest, E. L. — 

Methods of interpolation. Parti. (R. 1871) 249 

Additions to memoir on methods of interpolation. Part 11. (R. 1873) 275 

De Hart, J. N. Mounds and osteology of monnd-builders of Wisconsin. (R. 

1877) 3-3 

De Irisarri, Guatemalan minister, recommendation of Dr. Berendt by. (R. 

1865) 209 

Delafield, R. Report of Committee of Regents on Washington Canal. (R. 

1368) 224,329 

Delambre, J. B. J., memoir f, by J. Fourier. (R. 1864) 188 

De La Rive, A. A. — 

Eulogy on, by J. B. Dumas. (R. 1874) 286 

Michael Faraday, his life and works. (R. 1867) 215 

Phenomena accompanying propagation of electricity in rarefied elastic 

fluids. (R. 1863) 167 

Reporton transactionsof Society of Physics and Natural History of Geneva, 

1856-1859,1872-1873. (R. 1859 ; R, 1874) 110,286 

De La Rive, A. A. ; Lemstrom, S. Electricity of the atmosphere and the 

aurora borealis. (R. 1874) 286 

De La Ruk.W. Abbreviations used in England in 1867. (R. 1867) 215 

Delauxay, C. Essay on the velocity of light, (R. 1864) 188,354 

Delolepis, new genus of fishes, description of— T. II. Beax. (P. 1881) 467 

Delothyris, new generic name for Thyris — G. B. Goode. (P. 1883) 548 

Deudroica bryanti castaneiceps, review of^R. Ridgway. (P. 1885) 65t) 

Denmark, preservation of antiquities in — J. J. A. Wousaae. (R. 1879) 345 

Dexxis, W. C. — 

Evaporation in Florida. (R. 1866) t 214 

Fresh water in the ocean. (R. 1866) 214 

Dentroica rufopileata, new species, from collection by J. E. Bendict and W. 

Nye-R. Ridgway. (P. 1884) 607 

De Prados, Baron. Eclipse of the sun, April 25, 1865. (R. 1864) 188 

De Saussure, II. — 

Electric resonance of mountains. (R. 1868) -24 

Hymenoptera. (R. 1862) I'jO 

Report on transactions of Society of Physics and Natural History of Geneva, 

1870-1871. (R. 1871) 249 

Synopsis of FeSjpirfcB (American wasps) 254 

De Schlagixtweit, H. Ethnographical collections. (R. 1862) 150 

Desiderata, special, among North American birds, list of— R. Ridgway. (P. 

1881) 467 

Des Moines — 

River, ancient pottery from— R. N. and C. Dahlberg. (R. 1879) 345 

Valley, mounds in— S. B. EVAXS. (R. 1879) 345 

Desor, E. Palafittes or lacustrian constructions. Lake Neuchatel. (R. 1865) .209, 360 

Destruction offish in the Gulf of Mexico— J. Y. Porter. (P. 1881) 467 

Destruction of fish. See also Fish 

II 



694 CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 

Devereux, J. H. — 

Ancient pottery from Arkansas. (R. 1872) 271 

Catalogue of Indian relics presented to Smithsonian Institution. (R. •1872) 271 
Dewey, C. — 

Best hours for temperature observations. (R. 1860) 147 

Best hours to find mean temperature. (R. 1857) 107 

Life of, by M. B. Anderson. (R. 1870) 244 

The winds. (R. 1866) 214 

Dewey, Fred. P. — 

Circular No. 31, Appendix; Plan to illustrate the mineral resources of the 
United States and their utilization, at the World's Industrial and 
Cotton Centennial Exposition of 1884-1885 at New Orleans. (P. 

1884) G07 

Report on Department of Metallurgy and Economic Geology, National Mu- 
seum, for 1884. (R. 1884, ii) 648 

Report on Department of Metallurgy and Economic Geology, National 

Museuia, for 1885. (R. 1885, ii) 654 

Diagnoses des mollusquesnouveaux provenant de Californieet faisant jtartie du 

Mus6e de I'lnstitution Smithsonienne — P. P. Carpenter 252 

Diagnoses of — 

new forms of mollusks collected at Cape St. Lucas, Lower California — P. P. 

Carpenter 252 

new genera of Nemichthoid Eels — T. Gill; J. A. Ryder. (P. 1883) ... . 548 

new genera and species of deep-sea fish-like vertebrates — T. Gill 548 

new mollusks — 

collected on west tropical shores of North America — P. P. Carpenter. 2.52 

from Reigen Mazatlan collection — P. P. Carpenter 252 

from Vancouver district — P. P. Carpenter 252 

from west coast of North America — P. P. Carpenter 252 

from west tropical region of North America— P. P. Carpenter 252 

Diamond and other precious stones — J. Babinet. (R. 1870) 244,377 

Diary of an excursion in New Mexico — J. H. Carleton. (R. 18.54) 75 

Diatomacea — 

J. W. Bailey 23,63 

instructions for collecting, preserving, and transporting — A. M. Edwards.. 366 

Dickinson, A. B. Eruption of vt)lcauo in Nicaragua. (R. 1867) 215 

Dictionary of — 

Carib or Karif language— C.H. Berendt. (R. 1873) 275 

Chinook jargon, or trade language of Oregon — G. Gibbs. 161 

Dakota language— S. R. RiGGS 40 

Yoruba language of Africa — T. J. Bowen 98 

Yoruba language of Africa— W. W. Turner 93 

Digest of act of Congress establishing Smithsonian Institution — J. Henry... C, 328 

DiLLE, I. — 

Antiquities in Missouri and Tennessee. (R. 1862) 150 

Sketch of ancient earthworks of Ohio. (R. 1866) 214 

Diplomatic agents, circular to, relative to Morgan's research 138 

Diptera — 

described, of North America, catalogue of— R. Osten Sacken 102,270 

directions for collecting and preserving — R. Osten Sacken 102 

instructions for collecting — H. LoEW ; R. Osten Sacken. (R. 1858) 109 

of Arctic America — S. II. Scudder 342 

of North America, monographs of — 

Parts l-iii—H. LoEW 141,171,256 

Part IV— R. Osten Sacken 219 

4 



CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 695 

Directions for — 

auroral observations — J. Hexry. (R. 1855) 77 

collecting and preserving — 

diptera — R. OsTEX Sackex lu-2 

fish— T. H. Beax. (P/I68I) 4r,7,464 

insects — A. S. Packard 261 

plants — L. F. Ward 460 

collecting microscopic organisms — J. W. Bailey G:5 

collecting, preserving, and transporting — 

moths— C. II. Ferxald. (P. 1884) (,07, 600 

specimens of diatomacoa — A. M. Edwards 366 

specimens of natural history— S= F. Baird. (R. 1H5G) '.U,34 

constructing lightning-rods — J. Hexry 237 

earthquake observations — J. Hexry. (R. 1855) 77 

meteorological observations— A. Guyot; J. IIexuy. (R. 1-?55) 77, 19, 148 

mound explorations— C. Thomas. (P. ISril) G07, 601 

removing and preserving the skins of mammals — W. T. Horxaday. (P. 

1883) '. 548,589 

Directory of officers, collaborators, employes, etc., of the Smithsonian Institu- 
tion, National Museum, Geological Survey, Bureau of Ethnology, and 

Fish Commission 466 

Discourse on J. Henry — S. B. DoD 356 

Discovery, meteorological — F. L. Capex. (R. 18G6) 214 

Discovery — 

of a large meteorite in Mexico — W. M. Piersox. (R. 1873) 275 

of planet Neptune, report on history of the — B. A. Gould 18 

of stone image in Tennessee — E. M. Graxt. (R. 1870) 244 

relative to magnetism, history of. (R. 1803) 187 

Discussion of — 

magnetic and meteorological observations made at Girard College Observa- 
tory — A. D. Baciie — 

Parti. Eleven year period, solar diurnal variation 113 

Part II. Solar diurnal variation and annual inequality 12^ 

Part III. Influence of moon on declination 132 

Parts IV, V, VI. Horizontal component of magnetic force, etc 162 

Parts VII, VIII, IX. Vertical force 175 

Parts X, XI, XII. Dip and total force 186 

Parts i-xii. Complete 195 

meteorological observations. See Schott. 

Piazzi's astronomical observations — B. A. Gould. (R. 1863) 187 

relations of lucernarians to other acalephae, beroids, and polypi — II. J. 

Clark 242 

Snell's barometric observations— F. H. Loud. (R. 1830) 442,435 

tables and charts of winds — A. Woeikof ~*5^ 

Disease — 

known as "chorea," inquiries relative to— S. W. Mitchell. (R. 1874) 236 

origin and propagation of— J. C. Daltox. (R. 1«73) 27o 

Diseases of joints, bones, etc., bibliography of works on— W. W. Keen 300 

Dispersion of cloud by an electrical discharge— D.W.Xaill. (R. 1358) 10L> 

Distribution of — 

duplicate fishes of Pacific coast, chock list of-D. S. Jordax ; P. L. Jouv 

(P. 1881) - '"^^ 

fishes of Allegheny region of South Carolina, Georgia, and Tennessee— D. S. 

Jordax; A. W. Braytox ^^^ 



696 CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 

Distribution of — Continued. 

forest trees in Montana, Idaho, and Washington — W. W. JoHXSOX. (R. 

Is70) 244 

forests and trees of North America— J. G. Cooper. (R. 1858) 109, 351 

marine invertebrates from National Museum, list of— R. Rathbux. (P. 1881) 

467, 465,471 

Smithson income, majority and minority reports of Committee of Regents 

on— J. A. Pearce; J. Meacham. (R. 1853) 67,329 

specimens. See each aunual report. 

District of Columbia — 

archaeological map of the— L. P. Kexgla 537 

flora of— L. F. Ward. (P. 1881) 467,444 

list of birds of— E. CoUES ; S. S. Prextiss. (R. 1861) 149 

meteorology of— J. Wissxer. (R. 18.">7) 107 

mineralogy and lithology of, notes on — G. P. Merrill. (P. 1883 ) 650 

on prochlorite from— G. P. Merrill. (P. 1884) 607 

prehistoric remains in— T. R. Peale. (R. 187-2) 271 

Ditrema atripes, new embiotocoid fish from coast of California — D. S. Jordax ; 

C. R. Gilbert. (P. 1880) 425 

Documents — 

collection of historical, in Guatemala— C. II. Berexdt. (R. 1876) 299 

relative to origin aud history of Smithsonian Institution — W. J. Rhees 328 

DOD, S. B. Memorial discourse on J. Henry 356 

Dodge, G. W. Lightning discharges. (R. 1867) 215 

Dodge, N. S. — 

Memoir of C. Babbage. (R. 1873) 275 

Memoir of Sir John F. W. Herschel. (R. 1871) 249 

Dog's revenge, a Dakota fable— S. R. RiGGS. (E. 1879-'80) 476 

DolichopodidsB, monograph of — H. Loew ' 171 

Dolphin — 

notes on— S. Stearxs. (P. 1885) 650 

spotted, apparently identical with Prodelpldnus doris of Gray — F. W. True. 

(R. 1884") 648 

Domestic institutions in correspondence with Smithsonian Institution — 

list of - 69, 238 

number of 290 

Dominica — 

catalogue of Ober's collections of birds from- G. N. Lawrexce. (P. 1878). 332 
new species of Turdidce from— G. N. Lawrexce. (P. 1880) 425 

DoxALDSOX, T. The Catlin Indian Gallery in National Museum. (R. 1835, ii). 654 

DoXATX, G. B. Phenomena in telegraphic lines during aurora. (R. 1872) 271 

Doratonotus thalassinus, new species, description of— D. S. JoRDOX ; C. II. Gil- 
bert. (P. 1884) 607 

Dorosoraa cepedianum heterurum (western gizzard shad), notes on — S. WiL- 

MOT. (P. 1878) 332 

Dorpat and Poulkova, description of observatories at — C. Abbe. (R. 1867). 215, 369 

Dorset, J. O. — 

Illustrations of method of recording Indian languages. (E. 1879-'80) 476 

Omaha sociology. (E. 1881-'82) 631 

DoRSEY, Rev. J. OWEX. On the comparative phonology of four Sioux lan- 
guages. (R. 1883) 588,593,605 

DorysomatidtB, notes on— D. S. Jordax 306 

Douglas, S. A., eulogy on— S. S. Cox. (R. 1861) 149,329 

Douglass, H. M. Translation of Weismaun on change of Mexican axolotl. (R. 

1877) 323,401 



CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 697 

Dow, Capt. John M. CoUectiou of fishes, list of— D. S. Jokdan ; C. H. GiL- 

I5KRT. (P. I«e2) r,lg 

DOWNKS, J.— 

Occnltations of planets ami stars by the moon, 1853 54 

Occultations visible in the United States, ISla-lrfo'i 8, 9, 10, 11,29 

DOYLK, W. E. Indian forts and dwellings, Indian Territory. (K. IsTt;) 'J'J'J 

Drainage, saiiitarj', of Washington City — 

suggestions for — G. E. Waring, Jr 349 

suggestions for the— G. E. Waking, Jr., Toner lectures. No. viii 349,503 

Draper, H. — 

Account of telescope of, by T. W. Wkbb. (R. 1861) ISH 

Construction of silvered glass telescope and its use in celestial photography .~180 

Dredgings, Fish Commission — 

new or little known decapod crustaceans from- S. I. Smitu. (P. 1884) GhT 

penseidse from — S. I. Smith. (P. 1885) 65y 

Dresel, H. G.— 

Notes on some Greenland fishes. (P. 1S81) 6W7 

Description of a new species of dounder, Citharichthys macrops, from Pensa- 

cola, Fla. (P. 1834) 607 

•See, a ?so, under Bean and Dresel. 

Dreutzer, O. E. Statistics relative to Noryregian mountains, lakes, and snow 

line. (R. 1806) 214 

Drift, fresh-water glacial, of the Northwestern States — C. Whittlesey. 1 197 

Drillia— 

leucoeyma, new species of, from Florida — W. H. Dall. (P. 1883) 548 

limouitella, new species of, from Florida — W. H. Dall. (P. L^SH) 54?) 

thea, new species of, from Florida — W. H. Dall. (P. 1883) 54"^ 

Drilling i-n stone without metal— C. Rau. (R. 18GS) •2-24,440,372 

Dromococcyx, new species of, from British Guiana, description of — R. Ridgway. 

(P. 1885) 650 

Drugs — 

classification of forms in which medicines and, appear and are adminis- 
tered— J. M. Flint. (P. 1881) 467,451 

memoranda for collectors of— J. M. Flint. (P. 1831) 467,452 

request for, and information concerning them — J. M. Flint. (P. 1883) 548 

Dual character of the brain. Toner lecture No. 11 — C. E. Brown-Sequard 291 

DUBY, P. A. Report on transactions of Society of Physics and Natural History 

of Geneva, 1861. (R.1864) 168 

Duck, new to North American fauna — R. Ridgway. (P. 18S1) 467 

Ducks, domesticated hybrid (anas boschas + obscura)—E.SLADE. (P. 1884)... 607 

Dudley, T. Earthquake at New Madrid, Mo. (R. 1858) lOL' 

DUFOUR, C; Kamtz. Scintillation of the stars. (R. 1861) 1-J'J 

Duces, A. — 

Notes on fishes collected by, iu Mexico— T. H. Bean. (P. 1879) 333 

Notes on fishes collected by, iu Mexic»—D. S. Jordan. (P. 1879) 333 

(Translated by F. W. True.) Observations on four mules iu milk. (P. 

1882) 518 

Duke of Northumberland — 

account of • ^-^^ 

books presented by. (R. 1859) HO 

Dulichia arctica, new species, from Arctic Alaska, description of— J. Murdoch. 

(P. 1884) 607 

DUMAS,J.B. Eulogy on A. A. De La Rive. (R.1874) --<> 

Duncan, M. L. Translation of Holmgren on color-bliuduess. (R. 1877) 323, 399 

Dunkirk Society for the Encouragement of Sciences. Prize questions. (R. 1865; 

R.1873) 209.275 



698 CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 

DUNXIXG, E.G. Antiquities in Tennessee. (R. 1370) 244 

Duplicate — 

■ fishes distributed by Smithsonian— T. H. Beax. (P. 1830) 425 

marine invertebrates, list of, distributed by Museum. Series iv — R. S. Tarr ; 

R. Rathbun 516 

shells collected by the United States Exploring Expedition under C. Wilkes. 193 

DuPRE, W.; Henry, J. Earthquakes in North Carolina, 1874. (R. 1874) 233 

DUPREZ, F. Atmospheric electricity. (R. 1858) 109 

Dnssnmieriastolifera, new species, description of — D. S. Jordan; C. H. Gilbert. 

(P. 1884) 607 

Dust and sand, volcanic, deposits of, in southwestern Nebraska — G. P. Merrill. 

(P. 1885) 650 

Dwellings and forts, Indian, iu Indian Territory— W. E. Doyle. (R. 1876) 299 

Dyeing, purple, aHcieut and modern. (R. 1863) 167 

E. 

Earth- 
chemistry of the— T. S. Hunt. (R. 1869) 228,373 

electrical currents of the— C. Matteucci. (K. 18n7 ; R. 1869) 215,228 

figure of the— St. M. Merino. (R. 1863) 187 

internal structure of the — J. G. Barnard 310 

laws of atmesDheric circulation over the — J. H. Coffin 288 

revolutions of crust of the— G. Pilar. (R. 1876) 299 

secular variation of elements of orbit of — J. N. Stockwell 232 

Earthquake — 

articles on, received by Smithsonian Institution and deposited in Library of 

Congress. (R. 1871) ^ 249 

at New Madrid, Missouri— T. Dudley. (R. 1858) .' 109 

circular relative to — J. Henry 148 

directions — J.Henry. (R. 1855) 77 

ia eastern Mexico, January, 1866 — C. Sartorius. (R. 1866) 214 

in Guatemala- A. Canudas. (R. 1858) 109 

in North Carolina, 1874— W. Du Pre ; J. Henry. (R. 1874) 286 

in Peru, August 1.3, 1868— J. V. Campbell. (R. 1870) 244 

in St. Thomas — G. A. Latimer, {"d. 1867) 215 

phenemeiia, on observations of — R. Mallet. (R. 1859) 110 

Earthquakes — 

of Iceland, bibliography of— G. H. Boehmer. (R. 1885) 644,649 

volcanic eruptions and, in Iceland — G. .H. Boehmer, translator. (R. 

1885) 644,649 

Earthwork — 

double-walled, in Ashtabula County, Ohio— S. D. Peet. (R. 1876) 299 

in Highland County, Ohio— J. P. MacLeax. (R. 1833) 588,593 

Earthworks. See Mounds. 

ancient, ia China— Mark Williams. (R. 1885) 645,649 

ancient, of Ashland County, Ohio— G. W. Hill. (R. l!?77) 323 

ancient, of Ohio, sketch of— I. Dille. (R. 1866) 214 

ancient, on Upper Missouri — A. Barrandt. (R. 1870) 244 

in Tennessee — J. Jones 259 

in Wisconsin— E. E. Breed. (R. 1872) 271 

mounds and, in Ashland County, Ohio— H. B. Case. (R. 1881) 4&1,515 

mounds and, in Miami County, Ohio— E. T. Wiltheiss. (R. 1884) 620,623 

mounds and, in Vanderburgh County, Ind. — Dr. Floyd Stinson. (R. 

1831^ „ , 481,515 



CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. G99 

Earthworks — Contiuued. 

on Arkansas River — Mrs. G. Kxapp. (R. 1677) 323 

near Jones' Station, Butler County, Ohio— J. P, MacLeax. (R. lb31)...4Sl,515 
East Maine district, Hudson Bay Company, birds of, list of the— L. M. Tur- 
ner. (P. 1885) 1 6o0 

East "Windsor, Conn., anti«]uitics of — E. H. Ellswouth. (R. IdSl) 4>^l,r)15 

Eastward distribution of the black-tailed deer — Chas. Bexdire, U. S. Army 

(P. 1832) ". 518 

Eastern portion of Smithsonian building, reconstruction of, report of architects. 

(R. 1884) G-23 

Eastern United States, aiiriculacea of the, revision of the — W. 11. Dai.l. (P. 

1885) GoO 

Echenidids, rotes on the relationships of — T. Gill. (P. 188-') 518 

Echini collected by Albatross in 1884 and 1885, reports on — R. Ratiibux. (P. 

1885) 650 

Ecbinodermata — 

from Stearns' expedition to Labrador in 188'2, catalogue of — K. J. Busii. 

(P. 1883) 54-! 

of the northeastern coast of America, notice of — A. E. Vekrill. (P. 1885).. CTjO 
Echinoderms of — 

Kerguelen Island— A. E. Verrill 294 

northeastern coast of America— A. E. Verrill. (P. Ib7l) ; P. 1880) 333,425 

the United States at London Fisheries Exhibition in 133:5, catalogue of — R. 

Rathbux 511,521,552 

Eclipse — 

annular, of May 2(5, 1854 66 

of the sun — 

April 25, 18G5— Baron De Prados. (R. 18('.4) 188 

March 15, 1858, map of— T. Hill 101 

July 18, 1860— J. Lamont. (R.18G4) 188 

September 7, 1858, in Peru- J. M. Gilliss 100 

Ecliptic, obliquity of the— J. N. Stockwell 2:i2 

Economic — 

geology, department of. National Museum, report of curator for 1834. (R. 

1384 II) ^'-13 

mollusca of the United States at the London Fisheries Exhibition in 1883, 

catalogue of— F. Wixslow 511,521,554 

Education — 

acknowledgment of books on— E. Laboulaye. (R. 1867) 215 

Illinois State Board of. Meteorological system for every State. (R. 1355) 77 
in the United States, project of an outline history of— F. A. Packard. (R. 

1863) - ^""^ 

scientific, of mechanics and artisans— A. P. Peabody. (R. 1872) 271, 380 

Educational series of marine invertebrates distributed by United States Na- 
tional Museum— R. Rathbux. (P. 1881) 465,467,471 

Edwards, A. M. — 

Directions for collecting, preserving, and transporting diatomacea 366 

Results of examination under microscope of Japanese infusorial earths 202 

Edwards, V. N.— 

Occurrence of oceanic bonito (Orcijnus pelamij.s) in Vineyard Sound, Massa- 
chusetts. (P.1878) •^•'- 

Edwards, W. H. — 

Diurnal lepidoptera of Arctic America - 

on lepidoptera '^" 

EdwardsviUo, Wyandotte County, Kans.. mounds in— E. F. Serviss. (R. 

l^dl) -^31,515 



700 CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 

Eel— 

muranoid, {Sidera chlevastes) from Galapagos Island, description of^D. o. 

Jordan ; C. H. Gilbert, (f 1883) 548 

new species, description of— D. S. Jordax; C.H.Gilbert. (P. 1S32) 518 

Eels— 

genitalia of males— S. T. Cattie. (P. 18S0) 425 

Nemichthoid, new genera of, diagnosis of— T.Gill; J.A.Ryder. (P. 1883). 543 

Eggers, H. F. A. Flora of St. Croix and Virgin Islands 313 

Egging expedition to Shoal Lake, Lake Winnipeg — D. GUNN. (R. 1867) 215 

Eggs- 
exchange of, circular. (P. 1866) 646 

instructions for collectiug—S. F. Baird. (R. 1858) 109,130 

instructions for collecting — A.Newton 139 

instructions for collecting and preserving — T. M. Brewer 139 

list of, and wanted in museum— C. E. Bendire. (P. 1884) 603, 607 

North American— T. M. Brewer 89 

of the eight North American species of Empidonaces — T.M. Brewer. (P. 

1879) 333 

suggestions for forming collections of— A. Newton 139 

Egleston, T. — 

Catalogue of minerals, with their formulas 156 

Scheme for qualitative determinations by blow-piijo. (R. 1872) 271 

translation by, of Brezinaon crystallography 386 

Egypt, presentation of books on — R. Lepsius. (R. 1860) 147 

Eigenman, C. H. See Jordan, D. S; Eigenmax, C. H 

Elainea cinerescens, new species, from collection by J. E. Benedict and W. Nye — 

R.RiDGWAY. (P.1884) 607 

Elassoma evergladei, description of — D. S. Jordan. (P. 1S84) 607 

Elastic force of aqueous vapor, table for determining— J. H. Coffin 87 

Electric — 

phenomenon— W. F. Given. (R. 1S65) 209 

resonance of mountains, observations on — H. DeSaussure. (R. 1868) 2i!4 

Electrical — 

currents of the earth— C. Matteucci. (R. 1867 ; R. 1869) 215, 228 

discharge, dispersion of a cloud, by D. W. Naill. (R. 1858) 109 

rheometry, researches on — A. Secchi 36 

Electricity — 

accounts of lightning discharges. (R. 1867) 215 

and galvanism, report on recent progress in — J. MtJLLER. (R. 1857 ) 107 

and magnetism, later views of connection of — 11. Helmholtz; J. C. Max- 
well. (R.1873) 275 

atmospheric — F. Duprez. (R. 1858) 109 

considerations on. (R.1867) 215 

of atmosphere and the aurora borealis — S. LemstrOm ; A. A. De La Rive. 

(R. 1874) 286 

of induction in clouds resolving into rain, snow, and hail — F. Zantedeschi. 

(R. 1870) 244 

phenomena accompanying propagation of, in rarefied elastic fluids — A. A. De 

La Rive, (R.1363) 187 

presence of, during fall of rain — Professor Palmieri. (R. 1870) 244 

report of recent progress in — J. Mijller. (R. 1856) 91 

Electro-magnetic — 

seismograph — Professor Palmieri. (R. 1870) 244 

telegraph, Henry's contribution to— W. B. Taylor. (R.1873) 341,405 

telegraph. See Henry ; Telegraph. 



CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 701 

Electro-physiology, lectures ou—C. Matteucci. (R. 186.")) 200 

Electrotypes of ensravinga of shells graateil by British Museum. (R. Idu3). .. 137 

Elements, table of chemical equivalents of. (R. ISOl) 188 

Elephant mound in Grant County, "Wis. — J. Warxer. (R. 1372) 271 

Ellery, R. L. J. Address of the President of the Royal Societv of Victoria. 

(R. 18G8) ." 224 

Ellet, C. Physical geography of Mississippi Valley 13 

Elliot, D. G. — 

Classitication and synopsis of TrochiUdce 317 

List of described species of humming-birds 334 

Elliott, R.S. Climate of Kansas. (R. 1870) 214 

Ellsworth, E. W. — 

Ancient implement of wood from Connecticut. (R. 1876) 21*0 

Antiquities of East Windsor, Conn. (R. 1881) 4cl,51.') 

Embarrass, Wis., pits at — E. E. Breed. (R. 1877) 32:^ 

Embryology of insects— L. Agassiz 16 

Empidonaces, notes on nests and eggs of the eight Xorth American species of— 

T. M. Brewer. (P. 1879) 333 

Empidouax viridescens, uevr species from Costa Rica, description of— R. RiDG- 

WAY. (P. 1883) 548 

Employes of Smithsonian Institution, National Museum, Geological Survey, 

Bureau of Ethnology, and Fish Commission, directory of 466 

ExcKE, J. F., memoirof, by G. Hagex. (R. 136S) 221 

Endlich, F. M.— 

Analysis of water destructive to iish in Gulf of Mexico. (P. 1881) 467 

Geology of Kerguelen Island 294 

List of minerals in National Museum, 1873, 1879. (R. 1^73; P. 1880) ..275, 425 

Endothyra ornata, note on— C. A. White. (P. 1879) 333 

Exgelhardt, M. Formation of ice at the bottom of water. (R. 18Gt)) 214 

Exgelmann, G. Heights of mountains in Colorado. (R. 1362) l.')0 

Engineers, Civil, Lornlon Institution of. Prize questions. (R. 1862) 150 

England — 

abbreviations used iu—W. De La Rue. (R. 1867) 215 

free freights between the United States and — E. Cuxakd. (R. 1859) 110 

Salisbury, notice of Blackmoro Museum at. (R. 1863) 224 

English — 

and French weights and measures. See Tables. 

vocabulary with comparative words inSpanish, Frencii, and Latin 170 

Engravings — 

of shells, electrotypes of, granted by British Museum. (R. 1863) 187 

on the face of rocks in the Sierra Nevada— J. G. Bruff, (R. 1872) 271 

presented to Smithsonian Institution, catalogue of— C. B. KiXG. (R. 18G1 ) . . 149 

Entienia — ^ ^^ . 

henshawi, new species, description of — 11. C. Yarrow. (P. 1833) o43 

vagransplatonia, new subspecies, description of— II. C. Yarrow. (P. 1883) 548 

Entomologists — 

circular to ^"^^ 



instructions to 



261 



Eocene and oiigoceno invertebrate fossils of North America, check-list of— 

T. A. COXRAD 200 

EOFF, J. Habits of black bass of the Ohio. (R. 1854) "5 

Ephemerisof the planet Neptune, 1348-1852— S. C. Walker 4, 5, 6, 7, 24 

Ephippiids, note on the Affinities of the— T. Gill. (P. 1832) r)18 

Ephyrina — 

benedicti, new species, from Fish Commission dredging— S. I. Smith. (P. 

1884) ^^" 



702 CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 

Ephyrina — Coutiuued. 

new genus, from Fish Commission dredging — S. I. Smith. (P. 1SS4) 607 

Epinephelus — 

American specie^ of, review of the — D. S. Jordan; J. Swaix. (P. 1684).. 607 
Drummond-Hayi, anew serranoid fish from the Bermudas — G. B. Goode; 

T. H. Bean. (P. 1878) 332 

nigritus, notes on — T. H. Bean. (P. 1885) 650 

nigritus of the southern coast, note upon — G. B. Goode; T. II. Bean. (P. 

1878) 332 

Equilibrium of a liquid mass withdrawn from the action of gravity. See J. 
Plateau. 

Equinoxes, precession of the — 

J. G. Barnard 240 

J. N. SfOCKWELL 232 

Equivalents, chemical, of sixty-three elements, table of. (R. 1864) IbS 

Ernst, G. A. Meteorology of Caracas, South America. (R. 1867) 215 

Erosions of the earth's surface by rivers, etc. — E. HiTcncocK 90 

Eruption of volcano — 

in Nicaragua— A. B. Dickinson. (R. 1867) 215 

of Colima— C. Sartorius. (R. 186'J) 228 

Eruptions, volcanic, and earthquakes in Iceland. (Translation.) (R. 1885).. 649, 644 

Eryontidte, notice of recent— S. I. Smith. (P. 1879) 333 

Eskimo bows in National Museum, a study of the— J. Murdoch. (R. 18^54 '') .. 648 

Espy, J. P.— 

Notice of, by A. D. Bache. (R, 1859) 110,329 

On meteorology. (R. 1847) H 

Essay on — 

geographical distribution of batrachia and rexitilia — E. D. Cope 292 

velocity of light— C. Delaunay. (R. 18G4) 188,354 

Establishment — 

and officers of the Smithsonian Institution and National Museum 449 

of the Smithsonian Institution, Journal and By-Laws of. (R. 1853) 67,329 

EsTES, L. C. Antiquities of Minnesota, Mississippi River, and Lake Pepin. (R. 

1868) .' 214 

Estimate of population of the world — E. Mailly. (R. 1873) 275 

Etheostoma — 

cumberlandicum, new species of, description of — D.S.Jordan; C.K.Gil- 
bert. (P. 1883) 548 

davisoni, description of— O. P. Hay. (P. 1885) 650 

iowEea, description of— D. S. Jordan ; S. E. Meek. (P. 1885) 650 

variatiumofKirtland-D. S.Jordan. (P. 1885) 650 

Etheostomatidae, notes on — D.S.Jordan 306 

EtheostomatinsB, skeletons of, note on — D.S.Jordan; C. H. Eigenm.\n. (P 

1885) , 650 

Ethmocardium, notes on — C. A. White. (P. 1879) 333 

Ethnographical — 

collections— T. Lyman. (R. 1862) 150 

collections — H. de Schlagintweit. (R. 1862) 150 

collections, the Schlagintweit — H. Zisgenbals. (R. 1867) 815 

Ethnological — 

collections of museum at Lausanne, report on — F. Troyon. (R. 1861) 149 

department of the French Exposition, 1367. (R. 1867) 215 

investigation, American, plan for— H. R. Schoolcraft. (R. 1885) 645,649 

map of North America, suggestions relative to — L. H. Morgan. (R. 1861). 149 

map of the United States— G. Gibbs. (R. 1862) 150 



CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 703 

Ethnological — Continued. 

memoir of Squier and Davis, correspoudenco relative to acceptance of, for 

publication ^ 

museum of Norway— L. K. Daa. (E. 18G2) 150 

researcli— E. H. Davis. (R. 1866) 214 

specimens from Ugasbagmut tribe, Alaska, catalogue of— W. J. Fisher 654 

specimens presented by University of Christiania, Norway. (K. IbGiJ) 187 

suggestions for Russian America — G. GiBbS 207 

Ethnology — 

and archaeology, circular relative to collections iu 205 

and philology, instructions for — G. Gibbs 160 

articles on. (R. 1H67-1870-1877, 1879, 1880) 215,244,249,271,273,280, 

298,299,323,345,442 
O. T. Mason, Report on Department of Ethnology, National Museum, for 1885 

(188.5, li) G54 

department of, National Museum, report of curator for 1884. (R. 1884ii).. 648 

Leipsic Museum of— 0. T. Mason. (R. 1873) 275 

of Arctic America — L. Kumlien 342 

of Colonia Tovar, Venezuela, South America — A. Fkxdi.eu. (R. 1857) 107 

of Indians of Red River of the North— W. H. Gardxek. (R. 1870) 244 

physical, lectures on— D. WiLSOX. (E.1862) 150 

present state of, in relation to form of human skull— A. Retzu's. (R. 1859) 110 
Bureau of — 

catalogue of linguistic manuscripts in library of — J. C. Pillixg. (E. 

1879-80) 476 

directory of officers and employes of 466 

nrst annual report of— J. W. Powell 476 

second annual report of — J. W. Powell 542 

third annual report of^J, W. Powell 6.il 

Etowah River, Georgia, the Great Mound in the— Charles Whittlkskt. (R. 

1881) 481,515 

Etropus rimosus, description of— G. B. Goode ; T. 11. Beax. (P. l&f^5) 650 

Euchalarodus putnami, identity of, with Pleuronectcs t/lahcr — T. II. Beax (P. 

1878) -" 3.32 

Eulachon, or candle fish of northwest coast— J. G. Swax. (P. 1880) 425 

Eulima temphiltii, new species of, from Florida — W. H. Dall. (P. 1833) 548 

Eulogy on — 

Ampere, by F. Arago. (R. 1872) 271 

A.D.Bache,by J. Henry. (R. 1870) 244,329,379 

A. A. De La Rive, by J.B.Dumas. (R. 1874) 286 

Stephen A. Douglas, by S.S.Cox. (R.1861) 149,329 

Cornelius C. Felton, by T. D. Woolsey. (R. 1861) 149, 329 

Joseph Fourier, by F. Arago. (R. 1871) 249 

Herschel, byF.ARAGO. (R. 1870) 244 

Gay-Lussac, by F. Arago. ( R. 1876) 299 

La Place, by F. Arago. (R. 1874) 286 

L. A.Quetelet, by A.Mailly. (R. 1874) 286 

James A. Pearce, by A.D.Baciie. (R.1862) 150,329 

General J. G. Totten, by J. G. Barxard. (R. 1865) 209, 329 

Alexander Volta, byF.ARAGO. (R.ls75) 298 

Henry Wilson, by P.Parker. (R. 1875) 298,329 

ThomasYoung, byF.ARAGO. (R.1869) 228 

Eulogy. See Memoir, Life, Biography. 

Eumunida picta, new genus and new species of, from south coast of New Eng- 
land, description of— S.L Smith. (P. 1883) 548 



704 CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 

Eunephrops bairdii, description of— S. I. Smith. (P. 1385) 650 

Europe — 

and America, prehistoric fishing in — C. Eau 60G, 509 

causes -which limit vegetable species toward the north, in — A. De Can- 

DOLLE. (R. 1853) 109 

certain storms in America and, December, ISX — E. L'oOMis 127 

man as the contemporary of the mammoth and reindeer iu. (R. 1367) 215 

study of high antiquity in— A. Morlot. (R. 1SG2; R, 1864) 150,183 

tree creepers of, critical remarks on — R. Ridgway. (P. 1882) 518 

middle, fauna of, during stone age — L. RtJTiMEYER, (R.1861) 149 

European birds, North American and, generic and specific appellation of— L. 

Stejneger, (P. 1832) 518 

Eurypharyngidae, anatomy and relations of the— T. Gill; J. A. Ryder. (P. 

1SS3) ,543 

EVAKS, J. Climate of Colorado. (R. 1865) 205 

Evans, R. B. Mounds in Barren and Allen Counties, Ky. (R. 1881) 481,515 

Evans, S. B. Notes on mounds in Des Moines Valley. (R. 1S79) o4C 

Evaporation — 

in Florida— W. C. Dennis. (R. 1866) 214 

observed at Palermo in 1865 and 1866— P. Tacchini. (R. 1870) 244 

Everett, E. — 

Report on Jewett'a general stereotype catalogue of public libraries 47 

Report on organization of Smithsonian Institution. (R. lS5o) 67 

Everett, J. D. Underground temperature. (R. 1874) 236 

Evolution of language— J. W. Powell. (E. 1879-'80) 476 

Excelsior, Minn., mounds near — F. H. Nutter. (R. 1879) 345 

Exchange of — 

birds or birds' eggs, circular. (P. 1886) 646 

publications — 

Agricultural Association of Milan. (R. 1863) 187 

Chamber of Commerce of Bordeaux. (R. 1863) 187 

Royal Horticultural Society, London. (R. 1861) 149 

specimens — 

Hamburg Zoological Gardens. (R. 1867) 215 

Hamilton College, Clinton, N. Y. (R. 1861) 149 

W. A. Lloyd. (R. 1867) 215 

Museum of National University of Greece. (E. 1867) 215 

University of Costa Rica. (R. 1867) 215 

Exchanges — 

American Academy of Arts and Sciences, Boston, thanks for. (R. 1855; R. 

1867) ..77,215 

Bath and West of England Society for Encouragement of Agriculture, 

Arts, etc. (R. 1867) 215 

circular relative to scientific and literary 324 

Government of Bremen. (R. 1865) 209 

W. HiNCKS. (R. 1860) 147 

list of. Parts I, ii 73,85 

list of, to 1858 117 

Mexican Society of Geography and Statistics. (R. 1861, 1865) 149, 209 

Mining Department, Melbourne. (R. 1865) 209 

F. MiJLLER. (R. ISGO) 147 

reports on. (R. 1853-1867,1873; R. 1381-1885) 67,75,77,91,107,109,110,147, 

149, 150, 187, 188, 209, 214, 215, 275, 515, 540, 593, 623, 649 

J. Rosing. (R. 1865) 209 

Royal Academy of Science, Madrid. (R. 1861) 149 



CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 705 

Exchanges — Coutiuued. 

Smithsouian, history of the— G. H. Boeiimeu. (R. 1831) 515,477 

St. Petersburg Academy of Sciences. (R. IbG?) 215 

statistics of, 134G-18T7 329 

Excursion in Now Mexico, diary of— J. H. Carletox. (R. 1854) 75 

Executive Committeo of Regents. See also each annual report — 

journal and reports of, 1846-1870 329 

Exhibit- 
by the Smithsonian Institution at Centennial Exhibition, report on proposed 

plan of— S. F. Baird. (R. 1875) 298 

of fisheries of United States at Berlin Fisheries Exhibition — G. B. Goode.. 413 

Exhibition, Centennial, report on— S. F. Baird. (R. 1876) 299,307 

Exoccetus — 

review of— D. S. Jordan ; S. E. Meek. (P. 1885) 650 

volador, now species, description of — D. S. Jordax. (P. 1884) 607 

Expansion — 

bibliography of— F. W. Clarke ^55 

by heat, tables of— F. AV. Clarke 289 

Expedition — 

Coast Survey, for transatlantic longitude— B. A. Gould "223 

Hansler, narrative of the— L. Agassiz. (R. 1872) 271 

North Pacific Surveying, contributions to natural history made in connec- 
tion with the— T. H. Streets 303 

to Arctic Seas. See Hayes, Kane, McClintock. 

to Kerguelen Island- J. 11. Kidder and others 293,294 

to Lake AVinnipeg— D. GuNX. (R. 1867) 215 

to Mexico, scientific. (R. 1864) 188 

to the Mauvaises Terres and Upper Missouri— T. A. Culbertsox. (E. 

1850) ^8 

toward the North Pole, scientific instructions for— J. Hexry and others. 

(R. 1871) 249 

Expeditions — 

account of. Sec each annual report. 

contributing specimens, list of— S. F. Baird. (R. 1867) 215 

Experimental and theoretical researches on figures of equilibrium. So* J. Plateau. 

Experiments — 

on aneroid barometers at Kew Observatory- B. Stewart. (R. 1868) 224 

relative to meteorites— G. A. Daubree. (R. 1868) 224 

upon animal heat of fishes— J. H. Kidder. (P. 1879) 333 

Explanation of — 

principles of crystallography and crystallophysics— A. Brezlxa. (R. 

1872) 271,386 

Exploration of — 

ancient mounds in Union County, Ky.—S. Lyox. (R. 1670) 244 

Explorations — 

among Indian mounds in southern Florida— S. T. Walker. (R- 1379) 345 

and surveys, Government, report of— S. F. Baird. (R. 1878) 341 

Arctic, lecture on— I. L Hayes. (1861) ^^'^ 

articles on — See each annual report, 

botanical, in New Mexico and California, account of— A. Gray. (R. 1849). 21 

furnishing collections to National Museum, 1838-1877, list of— S. F. Baird. 

(R.1877) ^^^ 

ichthyological, in 1884, report on— D. S. Jordan. (R. 1884 ii) o4a 

in Central America— C. H. Berexdt. (R. 1867) - -_ j^ 

in Central America, report on— Dr. J. F. Braxsford. (R. 1882) o3o,o4U 

H. Mis. 170 45 



706 CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 

Explorations — Continued. 

in Greenland — L. Kumliex. (E. 1878) 341 

in mounds in Whiteside and La Salle Counties, 111. — J. D. MoODY. (R. 

1881) 481,515 

in New Mexico and Arizona— J. Stevensox. (R. 1880) 442 

in New York— E. G. Squier 15 

in Tennessee— E. A. Daytox. (R.1870) 244 

in upper California in 1860— J. Feilxer. (R. 1864) 188 

Kennicott's- HuDSOx's Bay Compaxy. ( 1863) 187 

of aboriginal remains of Tennessee — J. JoxES 259 

of the NUe— C. Hale. (R. 1865) 209 

of western Missouri in 1854— P. R. Hoy. (R. 1864) 188 

of JohnXantus in Mexico— M. Romero. (R. 1862) 150 

on western coast of North America — W. H. Daxl. (R. 1873) 275 

reports on— S. F. Baird. (R. 1651-1866, 1875— 1877).. 51, 57, 75, 77, 91, 107, 109, 

110, 147, 149, 150, 187, 188, 209, 214, 298, 299, 323 

scientific, in America, in 1852— S. F. Baird. (R. 1852) 1 57 

scientific, in Mexico. (R. 1864) 188 

Exploring expedition under Capt. C. Wilkes, duplicate shells collected by the.. 193 

Explosibility of coal oils— Z. Allex. (R. 1861) 149 

Explosiveness of niter — R. Hare 17 

Exposition. See French. 

of harmonies in the solar system — S. Axexaxder 280 

Expression for anthropological inquiry, queries about — C. Darwin. (R. 1867) . 215 

External appearance of the sun's disk. (R. 1866) 214 

Extinct — 

mammalia and chelonia of Nebraska — J. Leidy 58 

reptiles— J. Leidy 192 

sloth tribe of North America — J. Leidy 72 

species of American ox — J. Leidy 41 

Eye, bibliography of diseases of the— W. W. Keen 300 

F. 

Fabrics, textile, prehistoric— W. H. Holmes. (E. 1881-'82) 631 

Facts respecting Liberia College — A. Crummell. (R. 1861) 149 

Fahrenheit's scale, tables for conversion of centigrade degrees to. (R. 1863) 187 

Families — 

and subfamilies of Carangidae— T. Gill. (P. 1832) 518 

of fishes, arrangement of — T. Gill 247 

of mammals, arrangement of — T. Gill 230 

of mollusks, arrangement of — T. Gill 227 

Family — 

centropomidie— T. Gill. (P. 1882) 518 

human, systems of consanguinity and affinity of — L. H. Morgan 138,218 

Fanning Islands, natural history of— T. H. Streets 303 

Faraday, M., his life and works— A. A. De La Rive. (R. 1867) 215 

Farlow, W. G.— 

Account of progress in botany — 

1881. (R. ISSl) 515,486 

1882. (R. 1882) 540,532 

1883. (R. 1883) 593,581 

Algae of Arctic America 342 

Algse of Kerguelen Island 294 

Recent progress in botany, 1879,1880. (R. 1880) 442,430 

Report on water from Gulf of Mexico. (P. 1881) 467 



CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 707 

Farming and ganleuing, natural history aa applied to— J. G. Morris. (R. 1855) 77 

Faroe Isles, vegetable colonization of— C. Martins. (R. 18r-8) 109 

FarquhaRSOX, K. J. Study of skull and long bones from mound in Illinois. 

(K.1B74) 286 

Faehell, F. M. Ancient remains near Cobden, 111. (R. 1881) 481,515 

Fauna — 

and flora within living animals — J. Leidt 44 

littoral marine, of Provincetown, Mass. — R. Rathbun. (P. 1880) 425 

molluscan.of the Truckee group— C. A.White. (P. 1882) 518 

of middle Europe during the stone age — L. ROtlmeykr. (R. 1861) 149 

of Nebraska, ancient — J. Leidy 58 

Favre, a. Report on transactions of Geneva Society of Physics and Natural 

History, July, 1876, to June, 1877. (R. 1877) 32.1 

Favre, E. Biographical notice of Louis Agassiz. (R.1878) 341 

Faxon, Walter. A list of the Astacidio in the U. S. National Museum. (P. 

1885) 650 

Feeling, sense of. (R. ISOo) 209 

Feilner, J. Explorations in upper California in 1860. (R. 1864) 188 

Feldspar, determination of, in thin sections of rocks — G. W. Hawes. (P. 1881). 467 

Felton,C. C, eulogy on, by T.D.Woolsey. (R. 1861) 149,329 

Felton, C. C. — 

Notice of Washington Irving. (R. 1859) 110,329 

Notice of W.W. Turner. (R. 1859) 110,329 

Report on Professor Henry and the telegraph. (R. 1857) 107, 329 

Fendler, a. — 

Botanical explorations by, in New Mexico and California — A. Gray. (R. 

1849) 21 

Meteorology and ethnology of Colonia Tovar, Venezuela. (R. 1357) 107 

Meteorology of Colonia Tovar. (R. 1366) iil4 

Temperature of Saint Louis, Missouri. (R. 1860) 147 

FerNald, C. H. Circular No. 27, Appendix; Directions fur collecting, preseiv- 

ing, and transporting tortricids and other small moths. (P. 1884)... 607 

Fernandez, Don Leon. The Guatusa Indians of Costa Rica. (R. 1832) 540 

FekreIv, W., theories of,as to relation between difl'erenceofpressure and velocity 

of wind— J. Hanx. (R. 1877) 323,398 

Fetiches, Zuiii.—F.n. Gushing. (E. 1880-'81) :.- 542 

Fever — 

a study in morbid and normal physiology — H. C. Wood 357 

researches on— H.C.Wood. (R. 1378) 341 

study of the nature and mechanism of. Toner lecture No. iv— II. C. 

Wood 282 

Fevers, suro'ical complications and setjuels of. Toner lecture No. v— W. W. 

Keen ; 300 

Fkwkes, J. Walter. On a collection of Medusas made by the U. S. Fish Com- 
mission steamer Albatross in the Caribbean Sea and Gulf of Mexico 

(with Plate XX). (P. 1385) «^0 

FlALHO.A. Biographical sketch of Dora Pedro II. (R. 1876) 299 

Field Sparrow {spizella wortheni), new species from New Mexico— R. Ridoway. 

(P. 1884) *^ 

Figaxierre, M. Account of remarkable accumulation of bats. (R. 1863) 187 

Figure of the earth— St. M. Merino. (R. 1863) 187 

Figures — . 

of equilibrium of a liquid mass withdrawn from the action of gravity. See 

Plateau. 



708 CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 

Figures— Cont hi ucd. 

of fishes, identification of, in Catesby's Natural History of Carolina, Florida, 

and the Bahama Islands— D. S. Jordan. (P, 1834) 607 

series of, for labels 164 

Filices of Kerguolen Island— A. Gray 294 

Finances of the Institution, I8467IS77 329 

FIXCH, Fladgate, and Clarke. Residuary legacy of Smithson. (R. 1861) . . 149, 328 

FiNCK, H. Antiquities in the State of Vera Cruz, Mexico. (R. 1870) 244 

Fire — 

at Smithsonian, January, 1865, report of Committee of Regents relative to— 

R. Wallach; J. Henry. CR. 1864) 188 

Indian mode of obtaining — G. Crook. (R. 1871) 249 

Fire-alarm telegraph, American, lecture on— W. F. CnANNiNG. (R. 18.")4) 75 

Fire ball, meteoric, orbit and phenomena of— J. H. Coffin 221 

Fire-proofing buildings, architecture in relation to— D. B. Reid. (R. 185G) 91 

Fischer, F. Scientific labors of Edward Lartet. (R. 1872) 271 

Fisher, William J. Catalogue of a collection of ethnological specimens ob- 
tained from the Ugashagmut tribe, Ugashak River, Bristol Bay, 

Alaska. (P. 1883) 548 

-Fish Commission — 

account of work of— S. F. Baird. (R. 1880) 42 

catalogue of exhibit of, at Centennial, 1876— G. B. Goode 326 

■directory of officers and employes of , 466 

dredgings, new or little known, decapod Crustacea from- S. I. Smith. (P. 

1884) 607 

dredging of Brachyura and Anomura, preliminary report on — S. I. Smith. 

(P. 1883) 548 

■dredgings, penasidfe f rom— S. I. Smith. (P. 1SS5) 650 

exhibit by, at Berlin Fisheries Exhibition — G. B. Goode 413 

experiments on animal heat in fishes, made in connection with — J. H. Kid- 
der. (P. 1879) 333 

first decade of— G. B. Goode. (R. 1880) 442 

list of marine invertebrata from New England coast distributed by — A. E. 

Verrill; R. Rathbun. (P. 1879) 333 

moUusca collected by— A. E. Verrill. (P. 1880) 425 

new species of Physiculusfulvus and Lotella maxillaris collected by, descrip- 
tion of— T. H. Bean. (P.1884) 607 

notice of Crustacea dredged by, off south coast of New England — S. I. Smith. 

(P. 1880) 425 

Fish- 
analysis of water destructive to, in Gulf of Mexico — F. M. Endlich. (P. 

' 1881) 467 

candle, of northwest coast— J. G. Swan. (P. 1880) 425 

dates of first appearance of^F. B. Hough 182 

description of new species of (Jpogon pandionis) — G. B. Goode ; T. H. Bean. 

(P. 1881) 467 

destruction of, by poisonous water in Gulf of Mexico — J. Y. Porter. (P. 

1881) 467 

destruction of, by polluted waters in Gulf of Mexico— W. C. W. Glazier. 

(P. 1881) 467 

directions for collecting and preserving — T. H. Bean 464 

fresh, circular on shipping — S. F. Baird 384 

from deep-sea fauna of western Atlantic, description of new species of {Alepo- 

ceplialus Bairdii)— Q.V,.Gooo^; T. H, Bean. (P. 1879) 333 

mortality in the Gulf of Mexico— S. T. AValker. (P. 1883) 548 



CATALOGUK OF PUBLICATIONS. 709 

Fish — Continned. 

mortality of, iu Gulf of iloxicu — E. Ingkusoll. (P. 1881) 41)7 

mortality of, iu Gulf of Mexico— M. A. Mooue. (P. ISdl) 4G7 

new, from Alaska, with notes on genua Anarrhichas — T. H. Bkan. (P. 1871)) 333 
new ( Lopholaiilus chamceleonticeps), from south of New Eugland — G. B. 

Goode; T.H. Beax. (P. 1879) 333 

new gobioid {Othonops eos), from Sau Diego, Cal. — R. Smith. (P. 1^81) 467 

new aevranoid ( Epiiiephel us Dnnninond-Haiii), from Bermudas and Florida — 

G.B. Goode; T. H. Beax. (P. 1878) 332 

new sparoid, {Sarfjus Holbrookii,) from Savannah Bank, description of— T. II. 

Beax. (P. 1878) 332 

Fish-culture of the United States, exhibit of, at Berlin Fisheries Exhibition— 

G. B. Goode 413 

Fish-eating birds of the United States at London Fisheries Exhibition in 1883, 

catalogue of— R. Ridgway 511,0-21,553 

Fisher, J. G. Acknowledgmenr of perennibrancbiates. (R. I860) 187 

Fisheries — 

Exhibition, Berlin, additions to Museum from. (R. 1880) 442 

Exhibition, London, 1883, collections of the United Statesat. ^ee Catalogues, 
of United States, catalogue of collection to illustrate, at Philadelphia— G. 

B. Goode 326 

of United States, exhibit of, at Berlin Fisheries Exhibition— G. B. Goode. 413 
Fishes — 
■ Jilurichtli\js eydouxii and porichlhys poroslssimus, note on— D. 8. Jordan. (P. 

1884) ^<^7 

Alaskan, catalogno of— T. H. Bean. (P. 1881) 467 

Albatross collections of 1884 and 1885— F. W. Fewkes. (P. 1885) 650 

^?e2)ido8a«ru8.from Alaska— T. n. Bkax. (P. 1832) -- 518 

American, in British Museum and Museum d'llistoiro Naturelle, Pans, 

notes on typical— D. S. Jordan. (P. 1879) 333 

247 
arrangement of families of— T. Gill ^ti 

Artedius fenestralis, description of— D. S. Jordan ; C. H. Gilbert. (P. 

1882) ^^^ 

bibliography of— T. Gill '^*' 

Bothirs rafinesque, synonomy of— D. S. Jordan ; C. H. Gilukrt. (P. 1882)^. 0I8 
Carcharias lamiella, description of— D. S. Jordan : C. H. Gilbert. (P. 

1882> - 2o 

Caulolatilus microps— T. II. Beax. (P. 1885) -•- 

check-list of duplicates of, distributed by Smithsonian Institution- T. H. 

Bean. (P. 1880) 

Citharichthys stigmajus, description of— D. S. JoRD.ux ; 0. H. Gilbert. 

(P. 1882) - ^jj^ 

catalogue of, received from Jamaica— T. H. Beax. (P. 1884) _ 

Cftno(?or«8—G. B. Goode ; T. H. Beax. (P. 1882) ^ 

collected at — . 

Guaymas, Mexico, by H. F. Emeric. notes on, with description ot ^^^ 

GoUosoma htstrio—V. S. Jordan. (P. 1884) _• • • - - - - ^ 

Kev West, Fla., with notes and descriptions— D. S. Joedax. (P. 1884).. Wi 

Panama, list of— D. S. Jordax; C. H. Gilbert. (P. 1*^82) -- al» 

San Cristobel, Lower California, by C. H. Townsend, notes on-K. ^^^ 

Smith. (P. 1884) 

collected by— -n-.v 

H. E. Nichols in British Columbia and Alaska, notes on— i. u. i^ea.n. ^^^ 

Cp ISftl A .. ..-• " 

L. Belding,'ii'8Vof-D. S. Jordan ; C. H. Gilbert. (P. 1882) 518 



710 CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 

Fishes — Continued, 
collected by — 

Captain Bendire in Washington Territory and Oregon, notes on — T.H. 

Bkan. (P. 1882) -. 518 

Frank H. Bradley, list of— D. S. Jordan ; C. H. Gilbert. (P. 1882).." 518 

John M. Dow, list of, D. S. Jordan; C. H. Gilbert. (P. 1882) 518 

D. S. Jordan at Cedar Keys, Fla., notes on — D. S. Jordan; J. SWAIN. 

(P. 1884) ". 607 

Eev. Mr. Eowell, list of— D. S. Jordan ; C. H. Gilbert. (P. 1882) 518 

Silas Stearns, in Pensacola, Fla., notes on— D. S. Jordan. (P. 1884) .. 607 

J. G. Swan, notes on— T. H. Bean. (P. 1883) 548 

John Xantus, at Colima, Mexico, list of — D. S. Jordan; C. H. Gilbert. 

(P. 1882) 518 

John Xantus, at Cape San Lucas, catalogue of — D. S. Jordan ; C. H. 

Gilbert. (P. 1882) 518 

collected in — 

east fork of White River, Indiana, list of — C. H. Gilbert. (P. 1884). .. 607 
Lake Jessup and Indian Elver, Florida, by E. E. Earll, list of, with de- 
scription of two new species — D.S.Jordan. (P. 1884) 607 

the Clear Fork of the Cumberland, list of^D. S. Jordan ; J. SWAIN. 

(P. 1883) 548 

the vicinity of New Orleans, by Dr. E. W. Shufeldt, list of— D. S. Jor- 
dan. (P. 1884) 607 

collection from Johnson's Island, with description of new species — R. Smith ; 

J. Swain. (P. 1882) .' 518 

collection of, made by Capt. H. E. Nichols in 1852 and 1883, notes on — T. H. 

Bean. (P. 1883) 548 

Conodon serrifer, description of— D. S. Jordan; C. H. Gilbert. (P. 1882).. 518 

Coryphaena hippurus — T. H. Bean. (P. 1885) 650 

Corregonus hoyi— T. H. Bean. (P. 1882) 518 

cottoids, monograph of the — C. Girard 30 

department of. National Museum, report of curator lor 1884. (E. 1884 ").. - 648 
description of — 

a new cyprinodant—D . S. Jordan; C. H. Gilbert. (P. 1882) 518 

and notes on. See D. S. Jordan ; C. H. Gilbert. 

Corregonus hoyi—T. H. Beax. (P. 1882) 518 

deep-sea species from New England, diagnoses of two undescribed 
genera of flounders and genus related to Merlucius — G. B. Goode. (P. 

1880) 425 

four new species of cyprinidce in National Museum — D. S. Jordan; S. E. 

Meek. (P. 1884) 607 

four new species of poecilichtJiya in National Museum — D. S. Jordan. 

(P. 1884) 607 

neweel—D. S. Jordan; C.H.Gilbert. (P. 1382) 518 

new eel, Sidesa castanea — D. S. Jordan; C. Gilbert. (P. 1882) 518 

of scaroid fishes from Havana and Key West, including five new 

species — D. S. Jordan ; J. Swain. (P. 1884) 607 

of new species, Sebastiehthys umbrosus and Cithariehthys stigmceus — D. S. 

Jordan; C.H.Gilbert. (P. 1882) 518 

new species of ( Uranidea marginata, Potamocottus Bendirei); and of MyO' 

tophum crenulare—T. H. Bean. (P. 1881) 467 

ten new species from Key West, Fla.— D. S. Jordan ; C. H. Gilbert. 

(P. 1884) '. 607 

eygonectes zonifer from Nashville, Ga. — D. S. Jordan; S. E. Meek. 
(P. 1884) 607 



CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 711 

Fishes— Continued. 

description of new species — 

Myrophis vafer and Chloroscomhrua orqueta—I). S. Jordax; C. H. Gil- 
bert. (P. 1882) 51^ 

frem the Southern United States— G. B. Goode ; T. H. Beax (P 

1882) ; 513 

©f Alepidoaaurus from xVlaska — T. H. Bean. ( P. 1882) 'As 

of Artedius— D. S. Jordan ; C. H. Gilbert. (P. 1882) 518 

of blenny—D. S. Jordan. (P. 1882) 518 

of conodon— D. 8. Jordan ; C.H.Gilbert. (P. 1882) 518 

of goby— D. S. Jordan ; C. H. Gilbert. (P. 1882) 518 

of %&0flr«a//ii/8 from Mississippi— D. S. Jordan. (P. 1884) 607 

of Hijhepsh (H. montamis) — S. E. Meek. (P. 1884) G07 

of North American — D. S.Jordan. (P. 1879) 333 

of shark— D. S. Jordan ; C. H. Gilbert. (P. 1882) 518 

of Z7ranu7ea—E. Smith. (P. 1882) .M- 

of Cran«7ea—D. S. Jordan; C. H. Gilbert. (P. 1882) 518 

of Urolophus—T). S. Jordan: C. H. Gilbert. (P. 1882) 518 

directions for collecting and preserving — T. H. Bean. (P. 1881) 469 

Epinephelus nigritus— T. H. Bean. (P. 1885) 650 

European, in National Museum, list of— T. H. Bean. (P. 1379) 333 

experiments upon animal heat of — J. H. Kidder. (P. 1879) 333 

food. SeeG. B. Goode, T. H. Bean, D. S. Jordan, S. Stearns, T. Steindach- 
ner, S. Wilmot. 

circular relative to — S. F. Baird 234 

memoranda of inquiry relative to — S. F. Baird 231 

questions relative to — S. F. Baird 234 

from — 

Cape San Lucas, list of— D. S. Jordan; C. H. Gilbert. (P. 1882) 518 

Colima, Mexico, catalogue — D.S.Jordan; C.H.Gilbert. (P. 1882). 513 
Charleston, S. C, nevr species— D. S. Jordan; C. H. Gilbert. (P. 

1882) 518 

deep waters on south coast of New England, obtained by Fish Com- 
mission in 1880— G. B. Goode. (P.1880) 425 

eastern Georgia, notes on— T. H. Bean. (P. 1879) 333 

eastern Mississippi, collection of— O. P. Hay. (P. 1880) 425 

Florida, Lutjanus stearnsii, Lutjanus blackfordii, CauloJaiilua micreps, 
Xyrichthys psittaeun, Spams pagrus—G. B. Goode; T. H. Bean. (P. 

1884) .-/. 607 

Greenland, notes on— H.G.Dresel; T. H. Bean. (P.1834) 607 

Hudson's Bay, notes on— T. H. Bean. (P. 1881) 467 

Johnson's Island— R. Smith ; J.Swain. (P. 1882) 513 

Lower California, list of — D. S. Jordan ; C. H. Gilbert. (P. 1882) 513" 

Mazatlan, new species of Urolophus—D. S. Jordan; C. H. Gilbert. 

(P. 1883) 513 

Panama, new species of Myrophis and CMoroscombrus—J). S. Jordan; 

C.H.Gilbert. (P. 1882) i^'lS 

Panama, new species of UroIojihus—D.S). Jordan; C.H.Gilbert. (P. 



1882) 



18 



Puget Sound, new species— D. S. Jordan ; C. H. Gilbert. (P. 1882). .. 518 
Pnget Sound, new species of Artedius— B. S. Jordan; C. H. Gilbert. 

(P. 1882) ^1® 

Spokane River, new species of Uranidea—R. .Smith. (P. 1882) 513 

Utah Lake, notes on a collection of— D. Si.. ToKUAN ; C.H.Gilbert. (P. 

1880) ^^ 



712 CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 

Fishes — Continued. 

genus iVocf«r?itt8, review of— J. SWAix ; G. Ka.lb. (P. 1S82) 518 

Genus OpHcAf/fys, nomenclature— D. S. Jordan ; C.H.Gilbert. (P. 1882). 518 

Gobiosoma ios. description of— D. S. Jordan ; C. H. Gilbert. (P. 1882) 518 

Hadropterus in French Broad River, North Carolina— T. H. Bean. (P. 1865) . 650 
identification of the figures of, io Catesby's Natural History of Carolina, 

Florida, and the Bahama Islands— D. S. Jordan. (P. 1834) 607 

identity of Cotius maculatiis with Coitus bubalis—T. H. Bean. (P. 1885) 650 

in museum of Yale College, list of— D, S. JORDAN ; C. H. Gilbert. (P. 18^2) 518 

lo^Zossus— G. B. GOGDE ; T.H.Bean. (P. 1882) 518 

leesthes gilberti, description of— D. S. Jordan. (P. 1882) 518 

La C^p^de, neglected names of— D. S. Jordan ; C. H. Gilbert. (P. 1832) . . 518 

Letharchu8—G.B. GoOJy^; T.H.Bean. (P. 1882) 518 

literature and systematic relations of the aaccopharyngoid fishes — T. Gill ; 

J. A. Ryder. (P. 1884) 607 

list of specimens occurring in the Gulfof Mexico— G. B. Goode ; T. H. Bean 

(P. 1882) 518 

mortality of, in Gulf of Mexico— J . P. Jefferson. (P. 1878) 332 

mortality of, in Gulf of Mexico— S. F. Walker. (P. 1863) 548 

mortality of, in vicinity of Tortugas- J. P. Jefferson; J. Y. Porter; T. 

Moore. (P. 1878) 332 

new, from Kansas, Amiurus cragini,Clwla {liybopsis) topeka, Minnilus (Lythru- 

rus) nigripinnis-^Q. H. Gilbert. (P. 1884) 607 

new genus of {Bentliodesmus)—G. B. Goode ; T. H. Bean. (P. 1881) 467 

newgenusof (OeZoZepJs)- T. H. Bean. (P. 1881) 467 

new species — 

{Aprion ariommus and Ophidium Beanii) description of — D. S. Jordan ; 

C. H. Gilbert. (P. 1883) 548 

Aspidojjhoroides— T.B.. Bean. (P. 1885) 650 

of flounder, Citharichthys macrops, fTom.'Pensac6la,Fla. — H. G. Dresel. 

CP. 1884) 607 

of i)enip/iens— T. H. Bean. (P. 1835) 650 

of PZec/romaa— T. H. Bean. (P. 1885) 650 

of Physieulus fulvus and Lotella maxillaria collected by Fish Commission 

in 1881— T. H. Bean. (P. 1S84) ../ 607 

of whitefish, Cereyonus nelsonii, from Alaska — T.H.Bean. (P. 1884).. 607 
Homenclature of genus OpJiicTithys — D. S. Jordan ; C. H. Gilbert. (P. 

1882) 518 

Nerth American check-list of duplicates distributed by Smithsonian — T. H. 

Bean. (P, 1889) 425 

North American, review of Rafinesqne's memoirs on — D. S. Jordan 305 

note on — 

Calamus providens— J). S. Jordan; C. H. Gilbert. (P. 1834) 607 

occurrence of Ichthyomyzon castanevus — T. H. Bean. (P. 1882) ^18 

silver lamprey in Louisiana — T.H.Bean. (P. 1882) 518 

Caranx ruber and Caranx hartholomwi — D. S. Jordan ; C. H. Gilbert. 

(P. 1884) 607 

Captain Bendire's collection— T. H. Bean. (P. 1882) 518 

D. S. Jordan 305,306,308 

collection of, from Clackamas River, Oregon— D. S. Jordan. (P. 1878) 332 
observed about Pensacola, Fla., and Galveston, Tex. Notes on — D. S. Jor- 
dan ; C. H. Gilbert. (P. 1882).. 518 

observed at the head of Chesapeake Bay in 1882, notes on — T. H. Bean. (P. 

1883) 548 



CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 713 

Fishes — Cou tinned. 

observed in the Saint John's River, at Jaclisonville, F)a., list of— D. S. JoR- 

DA-x; S. E. Meek. (P. 1864) COT 

of Alaska, some p;euera and species of— T. H. Bk.vx. (P. 1479) 333 

of Alaska and Siberia, descriptions of new— T. II. Bean. (P. ls31) 407 

of Alleghany region of Sonth Carolina, Georgia, and Tennessee, distribution 

of— D. S. JOTIPAN ; A. W, I5RAYT0X 308 

of Arctic America— T. II. Beax 342 

of Beanfort Harbor, North Carolina, notes on— D. S. ■Joud.vx; C. H. Gil- 
bert. (P. 1S78) ?'M 

of Bermnda, catalogue of— G. B. Goode 296 

of Bermuda, mistakenly described as new by GiintluT— G. B. Goode. (P. 

1878) 3:5'2 

of California— T. II. Streets 30:5 

of California, descriptions of new genera and species of— W. N. Lockixg- 

TON. (P. 1879) :3;« 

of east coast of North America, catalogue of— T. Gill 283 

of Fanning Islands— T. H. Streets 303 

of Florida, description of new species o? {Scriola Stcani>i>i)—G. B. Goode. 

(P. 1879) 333 

of Florida, preliminary catalogue of, wirh new genius ;ind three new spe- 
cies— G. B. GoODE. (F. 1879) 333 

of Gulf of Mexico, collected by J. W. Vclie, catalogue of and rlescription 

of seven new species— G. B. Goode: T. H. Beax. (P. H79) 333 

of Hawaiian Islands— T. H. Streets 303 

of Kergnelan Island— T. Gill '-^^^ 

of Mexico, descriptions of two species of, collected by Dug^s— T. II. Bi:ax. 

(P. 1879) 333 

of Mexico, notes on Dngfes collection of— D. S. Jordax. (P. 1379) 333 

of New York— T. Gill.'' (R. 1356) 91 

of Pacific coast — 

and Alaska, bibliography of— T. H. Beax. (P. 1831) - - 46/ 

check list of duplicates of, distributed by Smithsonian Institution in 

1881-D. S. JORDAX ; P. L. JOUY. (P. 1831) 407 

notes on— D. S. Join) ax ; C. 11. Gilbert. (P. 1881) - - -16' 

of United States, bibliography of— T. GiLi 4b3 

of United States, list of-D. S. Jordan , C. H. Gilbert. (P. 1330) .... 4.o 
• of Pen,sacola, Fla.. catalogue of Steam's collection and description of new 

species— G. B. Goode ; T. H. Beax. (P. 1879) 333 

of St. John's River-G. B. Goode. (P. 1379) 3||;J 

of Samoan Islands— T. H. Streets ---• ''._ 

of Switz Citv Swamp, Indiana, notes on— C. II. Gilbert. (P. l'--'' )_- ------ j ' 

of Todos Santos Bay, Lower California, notes on tlie-R. Smith. (P. 13S3) o4.i 
of the United States at the London Fisheries Exhibition in 1333, catalogiie 

511, o21, 556 

of Nor'th America, s'ynopsis' of-D. S. Jordan ; C H. Gilbert '^f.^^^^ 

on coast of New Jersev and Long Island-S. F. Baird. (R. 13o4) --■—'■^'' >^*» 
pediculate, of eastern coa.st of extratropical North America, synopsis of- 1 . ^^^ 

Gill. (P. 1878) ""V-, V/ U /r> 1Qal^ am 

pipe-fi9he.sof Key West, Fla., noteson-J.SWAix; S.L Meek. (^_}-f)- ^^ 

Pomacentrns rubicundus, on the life of the young of-R. bMmi. (r. i-.s.;. -^io 

PuUiuiocottus Beudirei, description of— T. H. Bean. (P. 18M) ■ - - - - - 

Fishes, report on Departmet.t of Fishes-T. H. Bean, National Museum for ^^ 

1885. (R. 183.5, ii) 



714 CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 

Fishes, report on Department of Fishes — Continiifd. 
review of — 

genus Nocturnu8 — J. Swain ; G. Kaxb. (P. 1382) 518 

SyngnathincB of the United States— J. Swain. (P. 1832) 518 

the American species of marine Mugilidce — D.S. Jordan; J. Swain. 

(P. 1884) 607 

the American species of Spinephelus and related genera — D. S. Jordan ; 

J.Swain. (P. 1834) 607 

the species of Lutjanince and HoplopagrinoB found in American waters — 

D. S. Jordan ; J. Swain. (P. 1884) 607 

the species of the genus Calamus — D. S. Jordan ; C. H. Gilbert. (P. 

1884) 607 

the species of the genus Hatmulon—D. S. Jordan; J. Swain. (P. 1834). 607 
three new species offish collected at Pensacola, Fla,, by Silas Stearns — 

D. S. Jordan ; J. Swain. (P. 1884) 607 

Sebastichtys umbrosus, description of^D. S. Jordan ; C. H. Gilbert. (P. 

1882) 518 

Stathmonotus, new genus, from Florida— T. H. Bean. (P. 1885) 650 

Stoasodon narinari, note on— T. H. Bean. (P. 1885) 650 

study of trunk (Ostraciontidce), with notes on American species — G. B. 

GOODE. (P. 1879) 333 

SyngnathinsB of the United States, review of— J. Swain. (P. 1882) 518 

sjnonomy of genus Bothus Eajinesque — D. S.Jordan; C. H. Gilbert. (P. 

1882) 518 

synopsis of the plectognath fishes— T. Gill. (P. 1834) 607 

6Ui)plementary notes on North American fishes, Pcecilichthys beani, Jordan= 

Boleosorna viaculaturn — D. S. Jordan. (P. 1884) 607 

Uranidea margiuata, description of — T. H. Bean. (P. 1881) 467 

Urolophus Asterias, description of— D. S. Jordan; C. H. Gilbert. (P. 

1882) 518 

Zygonectes inurus, description of— D. S. Jordan: C.H. Gilbert. (P. 1882) 518 

Fishing, prehistoric, in Europe and America — C. Eau 606,509 

Fishkill, N. Y., deposit of arrow-heads near— E. M. Shepard. (R. 1877) 323 

Fish-like vertebrates, deep-sea, new genera and species of, diagnosis of — T.Gill, 

(P. 1883) 548 

Fissirostres, oology of^T. M. Brewer 89 

Flachenecker, G. Indian language. (E. 1862) 150 

Fladgate, Clarke, and Finch. Smithson's residuary legacy. (R. 1861) .. 149,328 

Flamingo from south Florida, specimens of— G. Wurdeman. (E. 1860) 147 

Flight- 
in the animal kingdom, phenomena of— E. J. Marey. (1369) 228 

modes of, in relation to aeronautics — J. B. Pettigrew. (E. 1867) 215 

Flint, E., shells from Costa Eica kitchen-midden collected by — W. H. Dall 

(P. 1878) 332 

Flint, J. M. — 

Classification and arrangement of the materia medica collection 450 

Classification of materia medica collection iu National Museum. (P. 

1883) 543,539 

Classification of forms of drugs a«id medicines 451 

Memoranda for collectors of drugs 452 

Eequest for drugs and information concerning them. (P. 1833) 54^, 541 

report on pharmacopoeias of all nations 560 

Flint, J. M. ; Beyer, Dr. H. G. Circular No. 32. Classificatiou of the materia 
medica collection of the U. S, National Museum and catalogue of 
.specimens. (P. 1885) .....,,,,....,.-.,.....-,,,,,,....,..,,,,.. 650,622 



CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 715 

Flint implements— 

in IlUnois, agricultural— C. Rau. (R. Id63) 224,440,370 

in Illinois, deposits of— J. F. Sxydkr. (R. 1S7G) 299 

in Ohio, Holmes County— H. B. Cask. (R. 1377) 323 

Flint Ridge, Licking County, Ohio, sketcli of— C. M. Smith. (R. 1864) 020,623 

Flints buried in Cass County, 111.— Dr. J. F. Sxydkk. (R. 1831) 481.515 

Flood-tide, law of deposit of— C. H. Davis 33 

Flora — 

and fauna ■within living animals — J. Leidy 44 

miocene, of Alaska, contribution to— L. Lesquereux. (P. 1882) 518 

of Alaska, sketch of the— J. T. Rothrock. (R. 18G7) 21;",, 367 

of Crozet and Kerguclen Islands— J. II. Kiddeu and others 294 

of North America, index of authorities for species of— S. Watsox 258 

of North America, Synoptical— A. Gray 509, 591 

of St. Croix and the Virgin Islands- H. F. A. Eggers 313 

of Washington and vicinity— L. F. Ward 444 

of western and southern Texas, report ou— Dr. V. Havard. (P. 1885)... 650 
Florida — 

Alachua County, mouudsin— James Bell. (R. 1S31) 481,515 

ancient canals in— Charles J. Kknworthy. (R. 1881) 481,515 

antiquities of— J. Bartram. (R. 1674) 286 

antiquities of— A. Mitchell. (R. 1874) 286 

Carolina and the Bahama Islands, Catesby's Natural History of, figures of 

fishes in, identificatiou of— D. S. Jordan. (P. 1884) 607 

catalogue of casts of Indian prisoners in— R. H. Pratt. (P. 1878) 332 

Charlotte Harbor, shell heaps of— Dr. M. H. Simons. (R. 1882) 535, 540 

collection of fishes from— 0. P. Hay. (P. 1885) 650 

collection of shells from, sent by H. Hemphill— W, II. Dall. (P. 183.5) .... 548 

colored bead from mound in— A.M. Harrison. (R. 1877) 323 

Curtiss collection of fishes from— D. S. Jordan. (P. 1880) 425 

evaporation in— W. C. Dennis. (R. 186G) 214 

fishes, notes on some-G. B. Goode ; T.H.Bean. (P. 1884) 607 

fishes of— G. B. Goode ; T.H.Bean. (P. 1378) 332 

fishes of, preliminary catalogue and new genus and species of— G. B. Goode. 

(P. 1879) J^^ 

forests and trees of— J. G. Cooper. (R. 1360) 147 

gold ornament from mound iu—C. Rau. (R. 1877) 323.403,440 

gold silver, and other ornaments found in— J. Francis Le Baron, a^- 

' 1882) ^''•^ 

HenshaU'B collection of fishes from-D. S. Jordan. (P. 1880) 42o 

Indian mounds in-S. T.Walker. (R. 1379) 34o 

Key West — 

fishes collected at, by D. S. Jordan, notes on-D. S. Jordan ; J. Swain . 

(P. 1884) '"'a"T ^ ' 

fishes collected at, list of, with note and descriptions-D. S. Jorda^n. 

oU7 

pip!i\e8of,'noteson-J.'swIiN'; S.E.Meek. (P. 1884).. . --.- 607 
ten new species of fishes from, description of-D. S. Jordan ; C. H. Gil- 
bert (P 1884) 

Lake Jessup and Indian River, fishes collected in, by R. E. Earll, list of-D. ^^^ 

S. Jordan. (P. 1884) -;- 

land and fresh-water shells, notes on-W. H. Dall. (P. l38o) 6o0 

microscopical observations in-J. W. Bailey 

MuskratCNeoflberalieni)-F.W.TRUE. (R. 1884 ii) ....-.. — -.- 



716 CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 

Florida — Contianed. 

new fish, Caulolatilus micropa, from — G. B. Goode. (P. 1S7S) 332 

new race of red-shouldered hawk {buteo lineatus alleni) from — R. Rldgway. 

(P. 1S84) 607 

Pensacola, collection of fishes from, obtained by Silas Stearns, notes on — D. 

S. JoRDAJf. (P. 1884) 607 

Pensacola, fishes observed at, notes on — D. S. Jordan ; C. H. Gilbert. (P. 

1882) , 518 

Pensacola, new species of fishes collected at, by S. Stearns, description of — 

D. S. Jordan; J. Swain. (P. 1884) 607 

phosphatic sandstone from — G. W. Hawes. (P. 1882) 518 

polychrome bead from — S. S. Haldeman. (R. 1877) 323,404 

prehistoric remains in — J . Francis Le Baron. (R. 1882) 535, 540 

St. John's River, at Jacksonville, fishes observed in — D. S. Jordan; S. 

E. Meek. (P. 1884) 607 

shell heaps and mounds in— James Shepard. (R. 1885) 645, 649 

shell heaps at mouth of St. John's River— S. P. Mayberry. (R. 1877) . . 323 

shell heaps of Tampa Bay— S. T. "Walker. (R. 1879) 345 

specimens of flamingo from — G. Wurdeman. (R. 1860) 147 

Stathmonotus hemphilUi from — T. H. Bean. (P. 1885) 650 

the aboriginesof— S.T.Walker. (R. 1881) , 481,515 

Tise's Ford, fossil bones discovered in the vicinity of, on the origin of— S. 

T. Walker. (P. 1833) 548 

west coast of, mounds and shell-heaps on — S. T. Walker. (R. 1883) 588, 593 

winds in— J. Baxtzell. (R. 186G) 514 

Flounder, new species of, from Pensacola, Fla.— H. G. Dresel. (P. 1884) 607 

Flounders, diagnoses of two undescribed genera of— G. B. Goode. (P. 1880) 425 

Flourens, M. J. — 

Historical sketch of the Academy of Science, Paris. (R. 1862) 150 

History of the works of Cuvier. (R. 1868) 224 

Memoir of — 

Ducrotay De Blainville. (R. 1865) 209 

Leopold von Buch. (R. 1862) 150 

Pyramus de Candolle. (R. 1859) 110 

Cuvier. (R.1868) 224 

Magendie. (E. 1866) 214 

Geofleroy Saint-Hilaire. (R. 1861) 149 

Louis Jacques Th€nard. (R. 1862) 150 

The Jessieus and the natural method. (R. 1867) 215 

Fluctuations of level in North American lakes — C. Whittlesey 119 

Fluids, elastic, electricity in — A. A. De La Rive. (R. 1863) 187 

Fly-catcher from Sandwich Islands, description of a new — R. Ridgway. (P. 

1881) 467 

Fly, Hessian, parasites of the— C. V. Riley. (P. 1885) 650 

Flying-fishes, American species of, review of the — D. S. Jordan ; S. E. Meek. 

(P. 1885) 650 

Flynn's Creek, Tennessee, mounds on— Joshua Haite, Sr. (R. 1881 ) 481, 515 

Fodiator, review of— D. S. Jordan ; S. E. Meek. (P. 1885) 650 

Foerstb, Aug. a., ancient relics at Dayton, Ohio. (R. 1883) 588,593 

Fog and wind— J. Bauour. (R. 1866) 214 

FoLSOM, C. Report on Jewett's general stereotype catalogue of public libra- 
ries •••.■. 47 

Food- 
relation of, to work, and its bearings on medical practice — S. Haughton. 

(R. 1870) ; 244 

collections, provisional classification of— G. B. GoOde 455 



CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 717 

Food-fishes — 

inquiry relative to— S. F. Baikd 231 

questions relative to — S. F. Baird 234 

Foods, sectiou of, National Mnseiim, re|)ort oroiuator for 1SS4. (R. iPSi h) (34^ 

Foods— R. Hitchcock. Report on section of Foods. National Museum for IBSo. 

(R. 1885, u) ■ 6-4 

Force, thoughts on the nature and origin of— W. B. Taylor. (R. 1S7U) •J44, 375 

Force, P. Record of auroral phenomena in high nortlieju latitudes 84 

Foreign — 

commissioners, collections presented to United States by. (R. IriTG) 299 

correspondents of Smithsonian Institution, number of 290 

correspondents of Smithsonian Institution, systematic index of 257 

gold and silver coins, table of. (R. 1868) 2-J4 

institutions in correspondence with Smithsonian Institution, list of. (R. 

1853) 64,(;7,154, 225,243,309,469,490. 635 

institutions, list of addresses of, since 1862. (R. 1865) 209 

institutions making donations to Smithsonian library, list of. (R. 1864). .. 183 

Foreman, E. — 

Meteorological system and correspondence of Smithsonian Institution. (R. 

1851) 51 

Report on meteorological system. (R. 1852) 57 

Forest trees, distribution of, in Montana, Idaho, and Washington — W. W. John- 
son. (R. 1870) 244 

Forests — 

and their climatic influence- A. E. Becquerel. (R. 1869) - 228 

and trees of Florida and the Mexican boundary— J, G. Cooper. (R. 1860) .. 147 
and trees of North America, distribution of, and catalogue of native trees of 

the United States— J. G. Cooper. (R. 1658) 109, 351 

Formulas, chemical, tables of — F. W. Clarke 255 

Fort- 
ancient, and burial ground in Tompkins County, N. Y. — D. Trowbridge. 

(R. 1863) 187 

Brown, Tex., list of birds from— .L C. Merrill. (P. 1878) 332 

Ellis, prehistoric remains near— P. W. NoRKis. (R. 1879) 345 

Marion, Fla. , list of casts of heads of Indian prisoners in — R. H. Pratt. (P. 

1878) 332 

Eipley, Minn., natural history of country about — J. E. Head. (R. 1854) ... 75 

Stone, near Makanda, 111.— G. H. French. (R.1881) 481,515 

Wadsworth, Dak., Indian mounds near— A. J. Comfort. (R. 1871) 249 

Fortricids, collecting, preserving, and transporting, directions for— C. H. Fer- 

NALD. (P. 1884) 607,600 

Forts — 

ancient, in Ogemaw County, Mich.— M. T. Leach. (R. 1884) 620,623 

and dwellings, Indian, in Indian Territory— W. E. Doyle. (R. 1876) 299 

Fossil — 

bones discovered in the vicinity of Tice's ford, Florida, on the origin of— 

S.T.Walker. (P. 1883) 548 

corbiculadae— T. Prime 1'*^ 

gasteropod, from Mexico, description of— C. A. White. (P. 1880) 425 

moUusks from later tertiaries of California— W. 11. Dall. (P. 187H) 332 

ox — J. Leidy - *^ 

plants, department of, National Museum, rei)ort of curator for 1884. (E. 

1884,11) ^^ 

plants from China, description of— J. S. Newberry 202 



718 CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 

Fossil — Continued. 

plants from western North America, description of — J. S. Newberry. (P. 

1882) 518 

trees in the U. S. National Museum— P. T. Swaixe ; J. T. C. Hegewau). (P. 

1882) 518 

Fossils — 

carboniferous invertebrate, description of new species of — C. A. White. (P. 

1879) ■- 33» 

catalogue of rocks, minerals, ores, and — J. Locke. (R. 1854) 75 

cretaceous, from Arkansas and Colorado — C. A. White. (P. 1881) 467 

cretaceous invertebrate, from Kansas and Texas, description of new — C. A. 

W^hite. (P.1879) 333 

departments of. National Museum, reports of curators for 1884. (R. 1884, u). 648 

from Nebraska, report on — J. Leidy. (R. 1851) 51 

from Santa Barbara, Cal.— P. P. Carpenter 25*2 

invertebrate, from Arkansas, Wyoming, Colorado, Utah — C. A. White. (P. 

1880) 425 

invertebrate, of North America — 

check-list of— T. A. Conrad 200 

check-list of— F. B. Meek 177,183 

cretaceous and Jurassic — F. B. Meek 177 

eocene and oligocene — T. A. Conrad 200 

miocene— F. B. Meek 183 

postpliocene, in coast range of Californian — W. H. Dall. (P. 1878) 332 

tertiary, distribution of Californiau — W. H.Dall. (P. 1876)^ 332 

tertiary, presented by Imperial Geological Institttte, Vienna. (R. 1863) ... 187 
Foster, J. W. — 

Ancient relics in Missouri. (R. 1863) ., 187 

Catalogue of rocks, minerals, etc. (R. 1854) 75 

Fourier, J. — 

Eulogy on— F. Argo. (R. 1871) 249 

Memoir of Delambre. (R. 1864) 188 

Fowler, J. Shell heaps of New Brunswick. (R. 1870) 244 

Fox (yacht) — 

meteorological observations in Arctic Seas made on — F. L. McClintock .. . 146 

record of voyage of, in Arctic regions — F. L. McClintock 146 

Fox River Valley, Illinois, antiquities of— W. Hector Gale. (R. 1881) 481,515 

France. See Paris, Prize questions. 

Emperor of, report to, by Minister of Public Instruction, on scientific ex- 
pedition to Mexico. (R. 1804) 188 

Franklin, Sir John, expedition in search of. See Kane. 

Franklin County, Ind., the Glid well mound— Dr. G. W. Homsher. (R. 1882). 535, 540 

Free freight between — 

Germany and the United States by North German Lloyd — R. Schxeiden. 

(R. 1858) 109 

United States and England— E. Cunard. (R. 1859) «..».. 110 

United States and Germany— Kunhardt &. Co. (R. 1861) 149 

Fremont J. C, descrijition of plants collected by — J. Torrey 46 

Fremontiauaj, plantae — J. Torrey 46 

French, G. H. — 

Antiquities of Jackson County, 111. (R. 1881) 481,515 

Stone fort near Makanda, Jackson County, 111. (R. 1881) 481,515 

French^ — 

Broad River, North Carolina, Hadropterus auranHcut in — T. H. Bean. (P. 

1885^ 650 



CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 719 

French — Coutiuued. 

exposition of 16G7, ethnological department of the. (R.1867) 215 

half-breeds of the Northwest— V. Harvard. (K. 1879) 345 

Institute, history of— M. Flourkxs. (R. 18o-2) 150 

Society of ArchjBologj', Archaiological Congress organized by. (R. 1866)... 214 

vocabulary, with comparative words in English, Spanish, and Latin 170 

weights and measures. See Tables. 

Fresh fish and other animals, circular relative to shipping 384 

Fresh-water — 

algJB of North America — H. C. "Wood 241 

glacial drift of Northwestern States— C. Whittlesey 197 

in the ocean — W. C. Dennis. (R. 18G6) 214 

shells. See Shells. 

shells, rioridian, notes on — W. H. Dall. (P. 1885) 650 

sponges from Mexico — E. Potts. (P. 1885) 650 

Friedlander, J. Plan of a bibliography. (R. 1858) 109 

Friel, J. Antiquities of Hancock County, Ky. (R.1877) 323 

Friends of the Museum, circular addressed to — S. F. Baird. (P. 1881) 467,446 

Frigate mackerel {Auj^is Bochei) on New England coast — G. B. Goode. (P. 

1880) 425 

Froebel, J. Physical geography of North American Continent. (R. 1354) 75 

Frost, disintegrating effects of, on building stones — C. G. Page 329 

Fruits, dates of ripening of— F. B. HouGU 182 

Fuca, Straits of, Indians of. See J. G. Swan. 

Fulica caribaea, new species of, from the West Indies — R. Ridgway. (P, 1884). 607 

Fund, Smithson— 

memorial of Regents to Congress relative to. (R. 1850) 28 

statement of, 1846-1877 329 

Fundy, Bay of, synopsis of marine invertebrata of — W. Stimpson 50 

Funeral of J. Henry 356 

Future of— 

geology— J. Prestwich. (R.1875) 298 

the human race — A. De Caxdolle. (R.1875) 298 

G. 

Galapagos Island, new vuira-noid eel {sidera cJdevastes) from, description of — D. S. 

Jordan; C.H.Gilbert. (P. 1883) 548 

Galbraith, F. G, Rock carvings on Susquehanna River, Pennsylvania. (R. 

1881) 481,515 

Gadus cimbrius, identity of, with Bhinonemus caudacuta — G. B. Goode; T. H. 

Bean. (P. 1878) 332 

Gaines, A. S. ; Cunningham, K. M. Shell heaps on Mobile River, Alabama (R. 

1877) 323 

Gale, L. D., statement of, on telegraph. (R. 18.57) 107 

Gale, W. Hector. Antiquities of Fox River Valley, La Salle County, 111. (R. 

1881) 481,515 

Galeorhinns galena— D. S. Jordan; C. H. Gilbert. (P. 1880) 425 

Gales of wind and appearance of aurora, connection of— R. T. Knight ; J. 

Henry. (R. 1371) 249 

Gallatin, A. — 

Comparative vocabulary 1"*^ 

On publication of Squier and Davis's work. (R. 1847) H, K 

Gallery, Art. See Corcoran. 

Galls,jumping8eed3and—C. V.Riley. (P. 1382) 518 



720 CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 

Galt, F.L. Indians of Peru. (R. 1877) 323 

Galvanism, recent progress in. J. Muller. (R. 1855) 77 

Galvanometer, use of, as a measuring instrument — J. C. Poggendorf. (R. 

1859) 110 

Galveston, Tex. Fishes observed at, notes on — D.S.Jordan; C.H.Gilbert. 

(P. 1882) 518 

Gamopetalas — A. Gray 559,591 

Gangrene, bibliography of— W. W. Keen 300 

Gardening, natural history as applied to farming and — J. G. MORRIS. (R. 

1855) 77 

Gardiner, R. H.— 

Barometer, rain,andsnow gauges. (R. 1853) 109 

Disappearance of ice. (R. 1860) 147 

Opening and closing of Kennebec River, Maine. (R. 1858) 109 

Gardner, W. H. Indians of valley of Red River of the North. (R. 1870) .... 244 
Garfield, J. A. — 

Biographical notice of S. P. Chase and L. Agassiz. (R. 1873) 275, 329 

Memorial address on J. Henry 356 

Garke, H. Birds of Heligoland. (P. 1879) 333 

Garman, S. — 

Contributions to the natural history of the Bermudas, Part VI. Reptiles. 495, 568 
Notes and descriptions taken from Selachians in the U. S. National Museum 
{Myliohatia goodei, Dasybatus varidens, Urolophus nebulo8U8,U. fuscus, j^aia 

fusca, B. senta, B. jordain ,un. ss. ) (P. 1885) 650 

Synopsis and description of American Bhinobatidoe. (P. 1880) 425 

The generic name of the Pastinacos, or '• Sting- ray 8." (P. 1885) 650 

The American Salmon and Trout, note on — D. S. Jordan. (P. 1885) 650 

Garretson, John ; Banta, W. V. Mound at Snake Den, near Salem, Henry 

County.Iowa. (R. 1881) 481,515 

Gas, hydrogen, as metal and— J. E. Reynolds. (R. 1870) 244 

Gasteropod, large fossil from Puebla, Mexico — C. A. White. (P. 1880) 425 

Gasterosteus, description of new species of, from Schoodic Lakes, Maine— T. H. 

Bean. (P. 1879) «. 333 

Gastrostomus bairdii, new genus and species of, anatomy of— T. Gill : J. A. 

Ryder. (P. 1883) 548 

Gasterosteus wiUiamsoni, occurrence of, in an artesian well at San Bernardino, 

Cal., note on— R. Smith. (P. 1883) 548 

Gatschet, a. S. — 

Klamath Lake Indian conjurer's practice. (E. 1879-'80) 476 

"The relapse" in Klamath Lake dialect. (E. 1879-'80 476 

Gauge, snow— W. E. Guest. (R. 1858) 109 

Gauges, rain and snow — R.H.Gardiner. (R. 1858) 109 

Gautier, Professor. Researchesrelative to nebulae. (R. 1863) 187 

Gems, plans for collection of, for New Orleans Exposition of 1884-'85 — F. W. 

Clarke. (P. 1884) 607,599 

Geneva, of the Scolopendrellidce — J.A.Ryder. (P. 1882) 518 

Generation, alternate and parthenogenesis in the animal kingdom-~G. A. KoRN- 

HUBER. (R. 1871) .. 249 

Generic — 

and specific appellation of North American and European birds — L. Stejne- 

qer. (P. 1882) 518 

names. Amitra and Thysis replaced— G. B. Goode. (P. 1883) 548 

name of Pastinacas — S. Garman. (P. 1885) 650 

names of recent and fossil animals, list of— S. H. Scudder 470 

names, ornithological, notes on some apparently preoccupied — L. Stejne- 

GER. (P, 1885) 650 



CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 721 

Geneva, re^portou tnuisao lions of .Society of Pliysie.s ami Nattiral llisloiy- 

Jiily, 1858, to June, 1859— A. A. IJk la Kivk. (K. 18.'.l>) hq 

July, 18G0, to Ju.i«, 18t;i— 1'. DuBY. (K. 1.-61) i,^ 

July, 1861,to Juue,18tS-:»— A. De Caxdoi.lk. (R. Id6l) , ..."'.'". .."."/.". i8.s 

July, 18G-2, to J uue, 1863— Professor Maucet. ( R. 186:]) ' 187 

July, l.s»i:5, to June, 1864— Dr. Ciiossat. (R. 1865) ,.__ j>09 

J Uly, 1864, to .j UlHi, IHtif) i;. PjLANTAMOUIl. (R. IbGo) 20'J 

July, 1865, to June, 18GG— Dr. Gossk. (R. 1866) ^14 

July, 1867, to Juuo, 1868— E. Waut.mann. (R. 186>!) 224 

July, 1868, to June, 1869— H. C.LoMBAKD. (R.ISGU) 228 

July, 1870, to June. 18TI—H. Dk Saussuke. (R. 1871) 249 

July, 187-2, to Juuo, 187:5— A. A. De i.a Rive. (R. 1874) 286 

July, 187:i, to June, 1874— A. De Caxdollk. (R. 1875) -jys 

July, 1874, to Juno, 187.')— E. Plaxtamouu. (R. 1877) :5->3 

July, 1875, to June, 1876— J. MCi.i.ER. (R. 1877) :{0;{ 

July, 1876, to June, 1H77— A. Favkk. (R. 1877), 303 

(Jonilaliu of male eels- S. T. CaTTIE. (P, 1880) 4>jr. 

Genth, F. .\.; GiBiis, W. Auunouia-cobalt ba.ses 88 

Geoj;raphical — 

clistributiou of batracbia and reptilia — E. D. Cope 292 

nuiuuscripts, catalogue of collection of— L. I5i:i!LAXDii;it. (R. 1851) 75 

Geograpby. .s'ee Physical Gcograpby. 
account of progress in — 

F. M. Greex. (R. 1882; R. 1883 ; R. 1884) 510, 593, G23, 527, 576, 611 

J. K. Goodrich. (R. 1885) (■)49, 632 

of Nortb American Continent — J. Froebki,. (R. 1~.>4). 7.") 

Geological — 

Researcbes in Cbiua, Mongolia, and Japan— R. Pu.MrKi.LV 202 

specimens, fatalogne of— D. D. OwE.N. (U. 1854) 7.'> 

survey in Micbigan, catalogue of rocks, minerals, and ore.-^ collected ou — C. 

T. JacksOX. (R. 1854) , 75 

Survey, directory of ofQcers and emi)l()yes of 466 

surveys. Sec annual reports ; also llayden, Powell, Wbeeler. 

Geology - 

account of progress in- T. SrEUUV Huxr. (R. 1882 ; R. 1883). .540, 593, 526, 575 

and bistory, boundary lino between — E. SUESS. (R. 1872) 271 

departments of, National Museum, reports of tbo curators for 18^4. (R. 

1S84,II) 648 

(economic, of Trinidad, report on surv.'y of— G. 1". Wall; J. G. Sawkix.s. 

(R. 1856) yi 

of the Bermudas— W. N. RiCE 495,563 

of Kergueleu Ishiiid— F. M. ICmjlich -'91 

of lower Louisiana and salt deposit ou Petite Anse Island— E. W. liii.CAUi).. 248 

past and future of— J. Prestwicii. (R. 1875) ~^'^ 

progress in, in 1879, 1880— O. W. IIawes. (R. 1880) 442,428 

surface illustrations of— E. IIitcucock 90 

Georgia — 

aboriginal structures in-C. C. Joxe.s. (R. 1877) 323,400 

ancient mounds in— M. F. Stevexsox. (R. 1870) -_• ' 

Bartow County, nu)und in— M. F. Stevexsox. (R. 1872) -'_' 

Berrien County, mounds in— AVilliam J. Taylor. (R. 1881 ; R. Is83)..48l,51.) 

588, 593 



rravo 



Coosawattee Old Town, Murray County, silver cro.sses from Indian-gr 

mound at— Dr. Charles C. Joxes, jr. (R. 1881). 481,515 

description of fisbes of AUegbany region of-D. S. Jordax ; A. W. Bra ytox 308 

H, Mis. 170 40 



722 CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 

Georgia— CoutLuueil. 

Etowali River, the great mound ou the— Chakles Whittlksky. (R. 1881) .481, 515 

hahits of poached rat, or salamauchr of — W. Gesxer. (R. 1860) 147 

Mcintosh and Early counties, mounds in— W. McKixley. (R. liS72) • 271 

microscopical ohservatious in — J. W. Bailey 23 

Nashville, Zygonectes zontfcr from, description of— D. S. Joudan ; S. E. Meek. 

(P. 1884) 1507 

notes on collection of lisli.s from— T. H. Beax. (P. 1879) 333 

Occurrences of StriclcJandia salteri and Siricklandia davidsoni in — C. A. 

White. (P. 1880) 425 

Putnam Ooimly, mounds in — Bexj. \V. Kext. (R. 1882) 535, 540 

ri'uiarkahlo forms of hailstones in— S. AuiCH. (R. 1869) 228 

shellheaps in— D. BroWX. (R. 1871) - 249 

Spalding County, antiquities of— W. B. F. Bailey. (R. 1-577) 323 

Geothlyphis hairdii, new species of, from Nicaragua— C. C. Nuttixg. (P. 1883). 548 

Gephyraja of northeast coast of America— A. E.Verrill. (P. 1«79) 333 

Germany and United States, free freight between — 

by North German Lloyd— R. Sciileidex. (R. 1858) 109 

Kunhardt&Co. (R. 1861) 149 

Gesnbr, W. — 

Habits of pouched rat, or salamander of Georgia. (R. 18G0) 147 

Mica beds in Alabama. (li. 1879) 345 

Mounds, workshops, and stone-heaps in Jefferson County, Ala. (R. 1881) . .481, 515 

Geysers of Iceland, bibliography of— G. H. Boehmer. (R. 1885) 644,649 

GiBBOXS, H. Clinuite of San Francisco. (R.1854) 7.) 

GiBBES, R. W. Memoir on Mosasanrus and allied new genera, UoJcodiis, Cono- 

saurtis, Amphorosteus 14 

GiBBS, G. — 

Archajology in the United States. (R. 1861) 149 

Bibliography of Chinook jargon 161 

Comparative vocabulary 170 

Dictionary of Chinook jargon, <>r trade language of Oregon 161 

Ethnological instructions 160 

Ethnological map of the United St ai .-s. (R. 1862) 150 

Ethnological suggestions 207 

Indian languages. (R. 1865) 209 

Indian vocabularies. (R. 1862) 150 

Instructions for archaeological investigations. (R.1861) 149 

Instructions for ethnology and philology 160 

Intermixture of races. (R. 1864) 188 

Language of aboriginal IndiiiuH of America. (R. 1870) 244 

Makah Indians 220 

Philological circular, (R. 1862) 150 

Physical atlas of North America. (R. 1866) 214 

Suggestions for scientific iuvestigatioua in Russian America 207 

Gibbs, G., memoir of— J. A. Stevexs. (R. 1873) 275 

GiBBS, G., and others — 

Recommendation of Shea's Indian linguistics. (R.1861) 149 

Tinneh or Chepewyau Indians of British and Russian America. (R. 

1866) 214,365 

GiBBS, G. J. Stone celts in the West Indies and Africa. (R. 1877) 323 

GiBBS, W. ; Gkxtii, F. A. Researches in ammonia-cobalt bases.. 88 

Gideon's Farm, Ilcnucpin County, Minn., mounds on — F. II. Nutter. (R. 

1879) 345 



CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 723 

GiLBKKT, Cu.VHLKS H. Sce uiulcr Jordan, Davkl S., and Gilbert, Charles II. 
a list of ii.shcs collected in the east fork of While Kiver, Indiana, with du- 
scriptions of two new species {irijparrjyrus, u. g., Forbes; Xolropia 

loops, n. 8.; Nocomis hijostomus, n. s. ; Scrraiia, n. g.). (P. 18di) (;u7 

description of three new fishes from Kansas (^miitnis cragiiii, ClioJa {Ily- 
hopsis) topela, Minnilus (Lyihrxrus) nigripinnis nn. ss.). {See also 

under Jordan and Gilbert.) (P. 1884) (;()7 

notes on the fislieaof Switz City Swamp, Greene Connty, Ind. {rwcUkhthy.i 

palmlris, ii. s.;. (P. 1884) q^j-j 

GiLBKKT, Sir D. Notice of Smithsoii. (R. 1803) 07 y^jo 

Gill, T.— 

Account of progress in zoology 432^ 

1880. (R. 1880) .'"'' .j,.j 

1881. (R. 1881) ".r,ir.,487 

1882. (R. 1882; r.ioisss 

1883. (R. 1883) r>03, 582 

1884. (R. 1884) _. 023,617 

1885. (R. 1885) G ID. 643 

A contribution to the terminology of iclithyograpliy. (P. 1684) ti07 

Arrangement of families of — 

fishes 247 

mammals 230 

moUusks 227 

Bibliography of — 

fishes 247 

fishes of Pacific coast of United States 463 

mammals 2.30 

mollnsks 227 

Catalogue of fishes of cast coast of North America 283 

Diagnosis of new genera and species of dccp-sca fish-liko vertebrates (Pe- 
tromyzon bairdii, Chimccra alhreviata, Ilistiobranchui iufcrnaJis, Xota- 
canthus analis, Si(/mo2)s siigmaticus, Ilyperclioristus ianneri, Alepoccpha- 
lus productus, Halosaurus goodci, Flectrovius stihorbitalis, Slephaiioberijjc 

moncB. Caiilolepis Jongldens, Uassozctiis 7iormalis,Ono8 rnfits). (P. 1883) 548 

Fishes of Kergnelen Island 294 

Fishes of New York. (R. 185G) 91 

Identity of the genus Leuryniils Lockington, wlih Lycodopsis CoWvtt. (P. 

1880) : 425 

Nomenclature of the XqyJirids. (P. 1882) 518 

Note on — 

Antennariidce. (P. 1876) 332 

Ceratiidce. (P. 1878) 332 

affinities of the ^jj/iijjjjiWs. (P. 1882) •- 518 

BdeUosto7nidw and Myxinidw. (P. 1882) 518 

genus Sparits. (P. 1802) '18 

Latiloid genera. (P. 1881) 467 

Leptocardians. (P. 1882) 518 

MaWieidw. (P. 1878) ^32 

Myzonts and Marsipobranchiahs. (P. 1882) 518 

Fdromyzonlids. (P. 1882) 518 

romatomidw. (P. 1882) ^18 

Slornoptychidaj (Iniomi, nom. nov. ; the figures of iSieniojflyx diajyhanns 

is not published.) (P. 1884) ^'07 

relation,yhip3 of the Echenddid. (P. 1882) '-^^^ 

On the family of Centropomidw. (P. 1882) ^1^ 



724 CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 

Gill, T. — Coutinued. 

Ou the family and subfamil ios of Carangidm. (P. 1882) 518 

Ou the proper uaiue of the bliielish. (P. 1882) 518 

Ou the relations of the family Lohblidce. (P. 1882) 518 

Status of ichthj'ology 247 

Supplementary note on the Pef7ic!«7rtfj. (P. 1882) 518 

Synopsis of pediculato fishes of the eastern coast of extratropical North 

America. (P. 1878) '332 

Synopsis of the genera of the super-family Teuthidoidea (families Teuthi- 
didaj and Sigauidaj) (Ctenochoetus, n. g., Colocopus, n. g., C. lamhdurus, 

new name). (P. 1884) 607 

Synopsis of the Plectognath fishes (Triodontoidea, n. super-fam. ; Masturus, 

n. g.). (P. 1884) 007 

Synoptical tables of mammals 230 

The osteological characters of the Lutjaninoe. (P. 1884) 607 

Gill, T. ; Rybek, J. A. Diagnoses of new genera of Xemichihoid eels. (Serri- 
vomerhea7di,S2)inivomergoodei,Lahichthysearinatus,La'bichtli>jsclonijatu8.) 

(P. 1883) 548 

Gill, T. N. ; Eydeu, J. A. On the anatomy and relations of the Euj-ypharyngidai 

(Lyomeri, Oastroslomiis lairdii. (P. 1883) 548 

Gill, Theodore, and Ryder, John A. On the literature and systematic rela- 
tions of the Saccopharyngoid fishes (with Plato i, OpMognathus ampul- 

laceus) cjj Harwood. (P. 1884) G07 

GiLLiss, J. M. Solar eclipse, Pern, September 7, 1858 100 

GiLLMAX, II.— 

Characteristics of ancient man in Michigan. (R. 1875) 298, 393 

Mound builders and ijlatycuemism in Michigan. (R. 1873) 275, 393 

GiLMAX, W. S. Lightning discharges. (R. 18G7) 215 

GiRARD, C. — 

Bibliography of American n&tural history for 1851 48 

Description of species of Cyprinidce and Catostomidw, identification of— D. S. 

JoRDAX. (P. 1885) 650 

Monograi)h of Cottoids 30 

GiRARD, C. ; Baird, S. F. Catalogue of North American reptiles 49 

Girard College observations. See A. D. Bache. 

Given, W. F. Remarkable electric phenomenon. (R. 1865) 209 

Glacial drift (fresh water) of the Northwestern States— C. Whittlesey 197 

Glaciers, traces of, in Massachusetts and Vermont — E. Hitchcock 90 

Glaisher, J. Account of balloon ascensions. (R. 18G3) 187 

Glazier, W. C. W. On destruction of fish in Gulf of Mexico. (P. 1881) 467 

Gliddon mummy case— C. Pickering 208 

Glidwell moimd (the), Franklin County, lud.— Dr. G. II. Homsiier. (R. 

1882) 535,540 

Globe, winds of the— J. H. Coffin 268 

Glyptocephalus cynoglossus on coast of North America — G. B. Goode ; T. H. 

Bean. (P. 1878) 332 

Gnathypops mystacinus, new species, description of— D. S. Jordan. (P. 1884). 607 

Goat, Rocky Mountain, habits of^J. C. Merrill. (P. 1879) 333 

Gobiesox rhessodou, from San Diego, Cal., description of— R. Smith. (P, 1881) 467 

Gobioid fish, description of a new, from San Diego, Cal. — R. Smith. (P. 1881). 467 
Gobiosoma — 

ceuthcccnm, new species, description of — D. S. Jordan; C. II. Gilbert. 

(P. 1884) 607 

histrio, new species, description of — D. S. Jordan. (P. 1884) 607 

ios, description of— D. S. Jordan; C. H. Gilbert. (P. 1882) 518 



CATALOGUE OF rUBLlCATIONS. 725 

GrOLD— 

and silvor coius, assay of, at UuLtod States Mint— J. VuLuyocK. (R. l-tii-). 211 

auil silver coins, foreij^n, tabic of. (R. ISGrf) 004 

oruamer.t from a monnd in Florida, observations on— C. K.vu. (li. 1~77) 

;!i;], 4 10, 403 
silvor and other ornaments fonud in Florida— J. Fkaxcls Lk Bai;ov 
• (K.1882) , :^:j-^r,.„i 

Golden warblers, American, review of— R. Ridgway. (P. 1885) G.'iO 

GOODE, G. B.- 
Gataloguo of collection to illnstrato animal resources and llsluries of tin- 

United States, exhibited at Philadelphia, 187(j 326 

Catalogue of fishes of the Bermudas 296 

Catalogue of U. S. Fish Commission's exhibit at Berlin, 1880 413 

Classification of collection of animal resources 297 

Clupca tyrannus of Latrobe. (P. 1878) .„ 332 

Description of new species of aniber fish {Seriola sicanisii), obtained from 

Florida by S. Stearus. (P. 1879) ;5:53 

Desoriptions of new species of fishes from deep soundings on southern Xew 

England coast, with diagnoses of tv.'o undescribcd genera of flounders 

and genus related to Jirf>-?Hci«s. (P. 1880) 425 

Description of twenty-five new species of fish from the southern United 

States, and three ucw gcncvn, Lcfharchus, loglossus, nnd Cliriodorus. 

(P. 1882) 513 

First decade of the U. SFish Commission. ( R. 1880) 442 

Fishes from Bermuda mistakenly described as new byGiinthcr. (P. 1878).. 'S.V2 
Fishes from deep waters on south coast of New England obtained by Fish 

Commission in 1880. (P. 1880) 425 

Frigate mackerel {Aiixis rochei), on New England coast. (P. 18-:0) 425 

List of substances derived from animal kingdom 207 

Methods of capture and utilization of animals 297 

Notacanthus phasganorus, new species oi Nolacanlhidoi Worn Grand Banks 

of Newfoundland. (P. 1880) 425 

Occurrence oi Belone laiimanus in Buzzard's Bay, Mass. (P. 1878) 332 

Occurrence of Canada porcupine in West Virginia. (P. 1878) 332 

Occurrence of Hippocampus antiquorum on St« George's Banks. (P. 1878) . .. ;)32 

Organization and objects of the U. S. National Museum. (P. 1851) 4G7, 459 

Plan of organization and regulations of the U. S. National Mnsenm (P. 1881) 

4G7, 445 

I'lans for installation of collections in the U. S. National ^Museum 472 

Preliminary catalogue and synopsis of collections of United States at London 

Fisheries Exhibition, 1883 511,521,551 

Prelhninary catalogue of fishes of St. John's River and east coast of Florida, 

with descriptions of new genus and three new species. (P. 1879) 333 

Provisional classification of the food collection. (P. 1381) 407,455 

lieport of the assistant director of the National Museum for — 

1881 510,515 

1H82 524,510 

1883 '..'. 587,503 

1884 ^'^^ 

Revision of American species of genus Brevooriia, with description of new 

species from Gulf of Mexico. (P. 1878) •'■''- 

Scheme of classification of collections in the U. S. National JInsenm. (P. 

188n 4<u,457 

Study of trunk fishes ((hfrarioniifhv), with notes on American species. (P. 

1879) '■"' 



726 CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 

GOODE, G. B.— Continued. 

Synopsis of useful and iujmious animals 297 

Taxonomic relations and geographical distribution of swordfish family 

iXijjUidw). (P. 1881) 467 

The generic names Amitra and Thyris replaced. {Monomitra and Ddothyris, 

new names.) (P. 1883) 548 

Voices of crustaceans. (P. 1878) 332 

GooDE, G. B. ; Bean, T. H.— 

A list of the species of fishes recorded as occurring in the Gulf of Mexico. (P. 

1S82) 518 

Catalogue of Stearns's fishes of Florida and descriptions of new species. (P. 

1879) 333 

Catalogue of Velie's fishes in Gulf of Mexico and description of new species. 

(P. 1879) 333 

Craig flounder of Europe {Glyptocepliahis cyiwgJossus) on coast of North 

America. (P. 1878) 332 

Description of — 

Alepocephalus hairdii, new deep-sea fish, western Atlantic. (P. 1879) .. 338 
Argentina syrlensium, new deep-sea fish, Sable Island Bank. (P. 1878).. 332 

Caulolatilus m'lcrops from Gulf coast of Flo2-ida. (P. 1878) 332 

Gadoid fishes, Phycis chestcri and Halopor^yhyrm viola, from northwestern 

Atlantic. (P. 1878) 332 

Lcptophidiuin cervinura and L. marmoratum, new fishes from dee^i 

water off the Atlantic and Gulf coasts. (P. 1SS5) 050 

Lycodes imxiUus. (P. 1879) 333 

new fishes obtained by the U. S. Fish Commission mainly from deep 
water off the Atlantic and Gulf coasts. Aplioristia diomedcana, A. 
jmsiUa, Hemirhomhus fimhriatus, Ciihariclithijsvenivalis, Etropns rimosiis, 
Macrxiriis caribbams, M. occa, Cor yplimi aides S2ilcahis, Malacocepliahis 
occidentalis, Balliycjadus cavernof^us, B. macro2)ff, B. longifilis m\, ss. ; 
Neobythites gillii, Poi-ogadus 7nihs, nn. gg. and ss. ; Baihyonus nom. 

gen. uov. ; BaUiy onus catena, B. pecioralis, nn. ss. (P. 1885) 650 

new genus and species of fish, LoplwlatiJus cliamceJeonticeps, from New 

England. (P. 1879) 333 

new species of fish, Apogon pandionis, from mouth of Chesaj)eake Bay. 

fP. 1831) 1 467 

new species of fish {Lnfjanus hiaclfordii and Luljanus siearnsii) from 

coast of Florida. (P. 1878) ' 332 

Identity oi Brosmiiis hrosvic American us, Gill, with Brosmius hrosmc (Miiller) 

White. (P. 1878) 332 

Identity of Bhinonemus candacuta 'wUh Gadus cimbrius. (P. 1878) 332 

New genus of fishes, Bcnthodcsmus. (P. 1881) 407 

Now eerranoid fish, Epincpliclus Drummond-Hayi, frojn Bermudas and Flor- 
ida. (P. 1878) 332 

Newspecies of Lipartis {L. ranula) from Ilalifnx. (P. 1879) 333 

"Noto on riatessaferi-uginea and Plaicssa rosirafa. (P. 1878) 332 

Note upon black grouper (Epinephelus nigrilus) of the southern coast. (P. 

1S78) :',32 

Notes on some Florida fishes (Lufjanus stearnsii, Lnfjanus bJaclfordii, Caulola- 
tilus micr ops, Xyrichthys psittacus, Sjyarus ptagrus). (P. 1881) 607 

Occurrence of Lycodes vahlii on La Have and Grand Bauks. (P. 1879) 333 

Oceanic bonito on coast of United States. (P. 1878) 332 

On the American fishes in the Linmcan collection. (P. 1885) 650 

GoODE, G. B. ; Jones, J. M. (editors). Contributions to the natural history of 

the Bermudas 503,504,505, .500. ,507, 508, 509, 495 



CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 727 

Goodrich, J. K., account of progress in geography. (R. 18d5) Ol'.t, 632 

Gopher oriUiuois, habits of the— J. 13. Pakvix. (li. 1834) 7.') 

GOKE, J. Howard. Tuckahoe, or Indian bread, (R. 1881) .'.!.'>, 482 

GossK, Dr. Report on transactions of the Society of Physics and Naliinil His- 
tory of Geneva, 1305-1800. (R. 1800) i>14 

Gould, B. A. — 

Account of astronomical observatory at Cordoba, Argenliu<> Ri'pubiic. (R. 

1873) .^ ■.. -J", 

Discussion of Piazzi's astronomical observations. (R. 180:'.) 187 

List of scientific papers of A. D. BacUc. (R. 1870) -J 1), :;,".), 379 

Report on history of discovery of Neptune 18 

Transatlantic longitude 223 

Gould, J. Ackno-wlcdgment of birds. (R. 1807) 'Jl.') 

Government Museum. See Museum. 

Government of Bremen, exchange system. (R. 1805) 20'.) 

Graham, T., scientille work of— W. Odlixg. (R. 1871) 'JI'J 

Grammar — 

and dictionary of tiie Carib or Karif language — C. II. Bkuf.xdt. ( R. 187:!) . -275 

and dictionary of the Dakota hinguage—S. R. RiGOS 40 

and dictionary of the Yoruba hinguage — T. J. Bowkx 98 

of Yoruba language— W. W. Turn'kr '.'8 

Granatellus salhBi boucardi, description of — R. Ridowav. (P. 1885) 050 

Grand Bank — 

new species ot Nolacanlhhhv from — G. B. Goode. (P. 1880) 'Ii5 

occurrence of /^//co(?c's r«7i/(i on — G. B. Goodk; T. II. Beax. (P. l.-^7'J) 'XV.\ 

Grand Manan, marine invertebrata of— W. Stlmpsox 50 

Granite,Maine, black nodules in— G. P. Mkkrill. (P. 188!}) 518 

Graxt, E. M. Account of discovery of stone imago in Tennessee. (R. 18r0)... 244 

Grasshopper — 

means of destroying— V. Motsciiulskv. (R. 18.")8) 1"'1 

wingless, of California— E. P. Vom.um. (R. 1800) 147 

Grasshoi^pers — 

and locusts of America— A. S. Tavlok. (R. 1858) 109 

North American, circular in reference to history of — P. R. I'hlkr 10:? 

Graves, ancient, and shell heaps of California- P. Sciiumaciikr. ( R. 187 I ) . . . . 280 

Gravitation — 

figures of equilibrium of li(|uid mass withdrawn from juttion of. See Plateau, 
kinetic theories of— W. B. Taylor. ( R. 1870) 2'Jii, 395 

Gray, A.— 

Address at memorial of J. Ilemy. (R. 1878) :;41,:!.)0 

Biographical memoir of J. Henry. (R. 1878) n41,407 

Biographical notice of W. II. Harvey. ( R. 1807) -!;'• 

Contributions to the history of the Commander Islands. No. 4. A.— Notes 
npon the plants collected on the Commander Islands (Bering and Cop- 
per Islands), by Lconhard Stejncger. (P. 1884) 007 

Memoir of John Torrey. (R. 1873) -' ■' 

Plantaj Wrightianai Texano-Nco-Mexican;e. Part i 22 

Plantie Wrightianio Texano-Neo-Mexican;e. Part ii - 42 

Plants of Arctic America ^^^ 

Plants of Kergueleii Lslaiid 294 

Report on Lindheimer's, Fendler's, and Wright's botanical explorations in 

New Mexico and California. (R. 1840) - 21 

Synoptical flora of North America .>..'.», 591 

Gray, A., and others. Report on organization of Siuitlisoniun Institution. (R. 

185:5) - ^" 



728 CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 

Gray, A.; Coppke, H. Report of Committee of Kegents on Smithsonian Mu- 

soum. (R. 1874) 286 

Gkay, a. ; Sargext, A. A. ; Clymer, H. Report of Committee on Museum. 

(R. 1876) 299 

Gray, J. E. ; De Caxdolle, A. Dominant language for science. (R. 1S74) ... 286 

Gray substance of medulla oblongata, and trapezium — J. Dean 173 

Great Britain, history of the Royal Institution of— E. Mailly. (R. 18G7) 215 

Greece — 

Museum of National Univeroity of, exchange of specimens. (R. 18G7) 215 

ornamental album from— Miss E. B. Coxtaxaki. (R. 1837) 107 

Greex, Edward, ancient rock inscriptions in Johnson County, Ark. (R. 

1881) .' 481,515 

Green, F. M. Account of progress in geography. (R. 1882; R. 1883; R. 

1884) 540,593,623,527,576,611 

Greex, J. Account of a now barometer. (R. 1855) 77,148 

Greex, J. ; Wurdemaxx, W. On filling barometer tubes. (R. 1850) 110 

Green's standard barometer 148 

Greene County, Ind., Switz City Swamp, fishes of, notes on the — C. IT. Gilbert. 

(P. 1884) 007 

Greenland — 

account of cryolite of— Lewis; Quale. (R. 1860) 214 

fishes, notes on some— H. G. Dresel. (P. 1884) 607 

observations in. <Scc Kane. 

report of explorations in — L. Kumliex. (R. 1878) 341 

Green River — 

country, meteorology of^Colonel Collixs. (R. 1871) 249 

group, new mollnscan forms from the— C. A. WuiTE. (P. 1832) i... 518 

Valley, Indiana, native trees of, notes on— R. Ridgway. (P. 1882) 518 

rock engravings on— J. G. Bruff. (R. 1872) 271 

Grenada, catalogue of Ober's collection of birds of— G. N. Lawrexce. (P. 1878). 3.32 

Grinnell expedition to Arctic seas. See Kane. 

Gross.aiaxn, F. E. Pima Indians of Arizona. (R. 1871) 2-j9 

Guadeloupe — 

catalogue of Ober's collection of birds of— G. N. Lawrence. (P. 1578) 332 

fauna of, new species of birds — G. N. Lawrexce. (P. 1885) 650 

Point-a-Pitrc, the Guesdo collection of antiquities in— 0. T. Mason. (R. 

1834) 62.3,621 

Guanajuato, notes on Dugi^s's fishes from — D. S. Jord^vx'. (P. 1879) 333 

Guatemala — 

antiquities in— G.Williamson. (R.1876) 299 

collection of historical documents in — C. TI. Berexdt. (R. 1876) 299 

earthquakes in— A. Canudas. (R. 1858) 109 

no^ hwmmm^ hivA (AWds ellioti) from — R. Ridgway. (P. 1878) 332 

Pantaleon, antiquities of— C. E. Vreelaxd; J.F. Braxsford. (R. 1884). 623, 619 

sculptures of Santa Lucia Cosumahvhuapa in — S. ITarel 269 

Guatemalan minister, A. T. Do Irisarri, letter from, recommending Dr. Berendt. 

(R.1865) 209 

Guatuso Indians of Costa Rica— Don Leon Fernandez. (R. 1832) 540 

Guaymas — 

Mexico, fishes collected at, by TI. F. Emeric, notes on — D. S. .Tordax. (P. 

1884) \ 607 

Sonora, birds found at, in December, 1832, and April, 1833, list of— L. T^eld- 

IXG. (P.1883) 548 

Guesde collection of antiquities— O. T, Ma.'^ox. (R. 1834) 623, 621 



CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 729 

Guest, W. E. — 

Ancicut ludiau iciuiiius near I'rcscott, Canada W^st. {]{. \r.7A\) 1)1 

Suow gauge. (E.I808) 1U9 

Guide to llio flora of Wasliinglou and vicinity — L. F. Wahd 444 

GxjlLl>, R.A. Diograpliieal notice of Clias. C. Jowelt. (IM^^GT) '21.') 

Gulf- 
coast, new fishes from— G. 15. Goode ; T. II. Bkax. (P. l^67j) Ci.'iO 

district, lludsou Bay Company, birds of, list of tho — L. M. Tuuxnu. (P. 

1S85) <>^0 

Gulf of California — 

lecture on shells of— 1'. P. C auimoxter. (K. 1859) 110 

listof fishes of— D. S. Jordan; C. IL Gilceut. (P. 1881) 467 

Gulf of Mexico. See Mexico — 

analysis of water dcstruclivo to fish in— F. M. Exdlicu. (P. 1881) 4{'>~ 

catalogue of fishes collected in, by J. W. Velie— G. B. Goode; T. II. I;i;ax. 

(P. 187D) ". :«:5 

collection medusas from— F. 11. Fewkes. ( P. 188.')) <i'"»0 

destruction of fish in— W. C.W.Gl.vzieij. (P. 1881) 'IG? 

destructiou of fish in- J. Y. Porter. (P. 1881) 407 

echini collected in, by steamer Albatross in 1881 and 1885, reports nn— K. 

Rathbux. (P. 1885) ^'>0 

fish mortality in the— S. T. Walker. (P. 1833) ^^48 

fishmortality in— E. Ingersoll. (P.1881) 4G7 

fish mortality in— M. A. Moore. (P.1881) 407 

mortality of fishes in— J. P. Jefi'ERSOX. (P. 1878) =5^2 

notes on mortality among fishes in— S. II. Jouxsox. (P. 1881) 4G7 

report on water from— W. G. Fari.ow. (P. 1881) • 4G7 

species of fishes occurring in, list of— G. B. Goode ; T. II. Beax. (P. 1-8-2). 518 
stalked crinoids collected in, by steamer Alhaiross in 1884 and 188.">, report 

on- R. Ratiibux. (P. 1885) <^''^ 

Gulf-stream, formation of clouds over— II. M. B.vxxis ter. IJR. 18GG) 214 

Gun-cotton and gunpowder— Lieut, vox Karoi.yi; B. F. Craig. (K. 18G4).. . 188 

Guxx, D.— 

Egging expedition to Shoal Luke, Lake Winnipeg. (R. 18G7) l.j 

ludiau remains in Red River Settlement, Hudson's Bay Territory. ( R. 18G7) . 'Jir> 

Guthrie, J., authority given by, to collectors of customs, etc., to receive and 

transmit specimens to Smithsonian "^^ 

G utta-percha and caoutchouc. (R. 18G4) 

GnYOT, A.— — iQ iA« 

Directions for meteorological observations. (R. 185.'.) / / , 1 J, 1 .a 

Meteorological tables -'}■> Vrk 538 

Meteorological and physical tables ;-',., ijcs, 

Metric system for scientific observations. (R. 1848) 

Mountain measurements. (R. 1862) ...- j'""l" 

Guyot, a.; IIexry, J. Directions for meteorological ol)serva(ions. (K.^l^-.-;)) 

Gyroscope, problems of rotary motion presented by— J. G. BarxaRD 240 

H. 

Haarlem, I loUaud, Sociei y of Sciences of. Sec Harlem. _^^^^ 

Haas, H. Account of light ning discharges. (R. 18G7) - -' 

Habel, S. Sculptures of Santa Lucia Cosumalwliuapa in Guatemala ^ba 

Habits of — r,|3 



axalotl, notes on-T. H. Beax. (P. 1882) 
beaver- F. R. Bruxot. ( R. 187:?) 



)iro 



730 CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 

Habits of — Continued. 

black bass of the Oliio— J. EopF. (E. 1854) 75 

gopher of IlJinois^J. B. Parvin. (E. 1854) 75 

pouched rat or salamander of Georgia — W. Gesner. {II. 1860) 147 

Eocty Mountain goat— J. C. Merrill. (P. 1879) 333 

species of salamander — C. Maxx. (E. 1854) 75 

Hadropterus — 

aurautiacus iu North Carolina— T. II. Bean. (P. 1885) 050 

seierus, new species from southern Indiana, description of^J. Swain. (P. 

1883) 548 

Iliematoma, bibliograiihy of — W. Keex 300 

Hsemulon — 

review of the species of. the genus — D. S. Jordan; J. Swain. (P. 1864)... 007 

rimator, nom. nov. — D. S. Jordan ; J. Swain. (P. 1884) G07 

IIagen, G. Memoir of Encke. (E. 1808) 224 

Hagen, H. — 

Neuroptera. (E. 1801) 140 

Pseudo-neuroptera of Kerguelen Island 294 

Synopsis of North American neuroptera 134 

Haidah Indians of Queen Charlotte Islands — J. G. Swan 267 

IIaidinger, W. Honorary medal to von Martins. (E. 1803) 187 

Hail, on the electricity of induction in — F. Zantedesciii. (E. 1870) 244 

Hail-stones in Georgia, remarkable forms of^S. Anicii. (E. 1809) 228 

Hail-storm — 

in Texas— G. M. Baciie. (E. 1870) _. 244 

on Bosphorus — Commodore Porter. (E. 1870) 244 

Haile, J.; McHenry, J. W. Antiquities of Jackson County, Tenn. (E. 1874) 280 
Ilainault, Belgium, Society of Science, Art, and Literature. Prize questions. 

(E. 1873) 275 

Haite, Joshua, Sr. Mounds on Flyun's Creek, Jackson County, Teun. (E. 

1881) \ ' 481,515 

Hake, description of a new— T. II. Bean. (P. 1880) 425 

Haldeman, S. S. — 

Coleoptera of the United States 62 

On a polychrome bead from Florida. (E. 1877) 323, 404 

Hale, C. Exploration of the Nile. (E. 1805) 209 

Hale, E. E, Eoport on Jewett's general stereotype catalogue of public li- 
braries 47 

Hale, H. Vocabulary of Chinook jargon 101 

Half-breeds of the North west. V. IIavard. (E. 1879) 345 

Haliaitus hypoleucus, Stejneger, description of. (P. 1883) 548 

Haliclystus auricula, anatomy and physiology of — H. J. Clark 242 

Halifax, description of fish obtained at. See G. B. Goode ; T. H. Bean. 

Hall in Smithsonian Building, report on use of — L. Agassiz. (E. 1807) 215 

Hall, C. F.,scieutilic instructions to — J. Henry; J. E. Hilgard ; S. Newcomb ; 

S. F. Baird; F. B. Meek; L. Agassiz. (E. 1871) 249 

Hall, J., statement of, on telegraph. (E. 1857) 107,115 

Halliwell manuscripts, report on — C. C. Jewett. (E. 1852) 57 

llaloporphyrus viola from deep-sea fauna of northwestern Atlantic — G. B. 

Goode ; T. H. Bean. (P. 1878) 332 

Halosaurus goodei, new species of, synopsis of — T. Gill. (P. 1883) 548 

Hamburgh Zoological Gardens, exchange of specimens. (E. 1807) 215 

Hamilton College, Clinton, N. Y. — 

Exchange of specimens. (E. 1801) 149 

Examination of Spencer's telescope. (E. 1855) 77 



CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 731 

Hamiltox, J. — 

Bequest deposited iu United States Treasuiy. {R. l-T;!) -j;-, ;{-j<j 

Bequest of $1,000 to Sinitiisoniau Iiistitiition. {R. Is72) ^Tl'lW'j 

Hamlix, IL— 

Address on death of Joscpli Ileniy ;j;,(j 

Biographical notice of S. F. Cliase. (K. is?:'.) 'J7.".' :!'j;) 

Hampton, V:i., Normal and Agricultural Institute, casts ol' heads of Indian Iioys 

and girls at— R. IT. Puatt. (P. 1879) ;>:{:{ 

Ilampsbiro County, W. Ya., stone mounds in— L. A. Kkxgla. (R. 18S;i) 58t*, ;V.':} 

Haxn, J. — 

Atmospheric pressure and rain-fall. (R. 1877) 3-j:!, :5'J8 

Diminution of aqueous vapor with increasing altitude. (R. 1-77) 30;]^ :>93 

Influence of rain upon the barometer. (R. 1877) 32:{, 3'Jd 

Laws of variation of temperature in asceuding currents 01 air. (R. 1S77).32:?, 393 

Relation between pressure of air and velocity of wind. (R. 1877) 32.1, 1593 

Reply to criticisms of W. I'f.urelt,. (R. 1877) SvJI], :!9S 

Harbors — 

dates of opening aud closing of — F. B. Hough 18-2 

tides and tidal action in— J. E. IIir.GAUD. (R. 1871) 'iStJ, 390 

Hakdisty, W. L. The Louchenx Indians. (R. 18()G) •Jll,::!;.') 

Haedy, Geohge L. ; Schektz, Fi;ed. B. Mounds in Ralls County, Mo. (R. 

1881) 481,51.'. 

Hare, R.— 

Explosi veness of niter 17 

Letter relative to gift of apparatus. (R. 1848) I 

. Method of forming small weights. (R. IB.'.S) 109 

On John Wise's okservation of a thunder-storu). (R. Hril) 75 

Harger, O. Notes on New England iso»o(Zrt. (P. 1879) 3;?3 

Harkness, W. Observations 011 terrestrial magnetism and deviation of com- 
passes on iron-clads 239 

Harlem, Holland, Society of Science. Prize quest-ions. (R. ISlil, 1804, 1808, 

1873) 149,188,2-24,275 

Harmonies of the solar system— S. Alex.vxder 280 

Harporhyuchus, Reichonbach.— R. Ridgway. (P. 188J) 518 

Harriott, J. Account of the city of Washington, 1808 330 

Harris, E. List of birds and mammalia of Missouri River. (R. 1850) 28 

llARPasox, A. M. Colored bead from nn)und iu Florida. ( R. 1877) 323 

Harrisox, W. Account of storm in Butler County, Ivans. (R. 1871) 249 

Hart, J. N. De. Mounds and osteology of the mound builders of Wi-sconsin. 

(R.1877) '^-^ 

Plarvey, W. H., biogra])hical notice of— A. Cray. (R. 18G7) 215,329 

Harvey-, W. II. — 

Lecture on marine alga\ ( R. 1855) ' ' 

List of arctic algiic '■■^•^ 

Marine algse — 

Part I. Melanospcrmecc 32 

Part II. IHiodospermea ■ *3 

Part III. Chloroi<permea' ^^ 

Parts I, II, in. Complete 9^ 

Harwood, a. a. Account of sarcophagus from Syria. (R. 1870) 244 

Hassler expedition, narrative of the— L. Agassiz. (R. 1872) ~'l 

Hastixgs, C. S. ; Holdex, E. S. Synopsis of Herschel's writings. (R. 1880)442, 42^6 

Hatch, F. W. Meteorological observations at Sacramento, Cal. (R. 1854) 75 

Haughtox, S. Relations of food to work, and its bearing on medical practice. 

(R. 1870) '■--- '^^^ 



732 ' CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 

[laiiy, Eeno Just, memoir of — G. Cuvier. (R. 1860) 147 

Havana, scaroid fishes from, descriiitior.s of— D. S. Jordan ; J. Swaix. (P. 1884) 607 

Havaed, V. French half-breeds of the Northwest. (E. 1879) 385 

Havard, Dr. V. , U. S. Army. Report on the flora of western and southern Texas 

(with one diagram). (P. 1835) 650 

IIavex, S. F.— 

Archajology of the United States 71 

Report on Jewett's general stereotype catalogue of public libraries 47 

Hawaiian Islands- 
fishes of— T. H. Streets 303 

natural history of— T. H. Streets 303 

Hawes, G. W. — 

Determinatiou of feldspar in thin sections of rocks. (P. 1S81) 467 

On mineralogical composition of normal mesozoic diabase upon Atlantic bor- 
der. (P. 1881) 467 

On a phosphatic saudstoue from Hawthorne, in Florida. ( P. 188'3) 518 

Progress in geology and mineralogy, 1879-80. (R. 1880) 442, 428 

Hawk — 

new, (^Eupornis rjraciUs) from Cozumel, description of — R. Ridgway. (P. 

1885) /. 650 

red shouldered {hiitco Uneatus alleni), new race of, from Florida — R. Ridgway. 

(P. 1884) 607 

Hawkes, F. L., andothers. On publication of Spanish works on New Mexico. 

(R.1855) 77 

Hawkins and Wale, blow-pipe apparatus of. (R. 1872) 271 

Hawthorne, Fla., phosphatic sandstone from- G. W. Hawes. (P. 1882) 518 

Hay, O. p. — ' 
Description of a new species of Amblystoma {Aniblijstoma copeianum) from 

Indiana [with Plate XVI]. (P. 1885) 560 

Notes on a collection of lishes from Florida, with descriptions of new or little 
known species. (Etheostoma davisoni, Zijgonectcs auroguttatus, nn. ss.) 

(P. 1885) 650 

On a collection of fishes from eastern Mississippi. (P. 1880) 425 

Haydex.F.V. Notes on Indian history. (R. 1867) 215 

Hayden, F. V. ; Meek, F. B. Palajontology of the upper Missouri 172 

Haydex, Rev. Horace. Antiquities of southwestern Pennsylvania. (R. 

1881) " 481,515 

Hayes. L L— * 

Astronomical observation in Arctic Seas 196 

Atmospheric pressure, wind, temperature, tides, in Arctic Seas 196 

Lectures on Arctic explorations. (R. 18i)l) 149 

Magnetic observations in Arctic Seas 196 

Physical observations in the Arctic Seas 196 

Haystack mound, Lincoln County, Dak.— A. Barrandt. (R. 1872) 271 

Head. J. E. Naturalhistory of country about Fort Ripley, Minn. (R. 1884) 75 

Health, architecture in relation to— D. B, Reid. (R. 1856) 91 

Heap, G. H. On an antique Roman mosaic from Carthage, now in the U. S. 

National Museum. (P. 1883) .548 

Hearing, sense of. (R. I860) 214 

Heart — 

influence of atropia on the— H. G.Beyer. (P. 1885) 6.50 

of slider terrapin, influence of variations of temperature ou— II. G. Beyer. 

(P. 1885) 650 

strain and over-action of the. Toner lecture No. iii-J. M. Da Costa 279 



CATALOGUE OF I'UliLICATIONS. 733 

Heut— 

and light of the siiii, rehitivo iutousity of— L. W. JMkkcu. (li. IH.'.G) yi 83 

aiuinal, of fishes, exporimeuts upon— J. H. KiDDEit. (1\ 1879) ss^ 

diy, comparative action of snlphnrous acid and, npon pntrcfactive bactori i 

(P.18S1) [[ ,,C7 

principles of the mechanical theory of — J. Mi'Li.EK. (li. IH(id) 004 

radiant, report on State of knowledge of— B. Powell. (R. 1859) 1 10 

recent progress in relation to the theory of— A. Cazix. (R. 18G--) 22i 

specific, table of — F. W. CLAr.iCK, 270 

tables of expansion by — F. \V. Clauke 289 

Heavenly bodies, resnlts of 8])ectram analysis applied to— "W. llc(x;i\s. (It. 

ISm) 211 

Hegewald, Lient. J. T. C, U. S. Army. See under Swaiao aud liegewald. 
Heights — 

circular relative to — J. Henuy 236 

of mountains in Colorado — G. Exgelmaxx. ( R. 186::^) l.-,0 

quantity of rain at difTereut- O. W, Mounis ; J. IIexuy. (R. 1855) 77 

Heilprin, a. New species of eocene mollusca from southern United States. 

(P. 1880) 405 

Heixemanx, V. Lepidoptera I33 

Helicinida)— W. G. Bixxey I44 

Heligoland, birds of — H. Gauke. (P. 1879)...... :>,;53 

IIellwald, F. vox. American migration. (R. 18GG) 1,'14 

Helmholtz, II. Relation of physical sciences to science in general. (K. 1871) 249 
Helmholtz, II. ; Maxwell, J. C. Later views of connection of electricity and 

magnetism. (R. 1873) 275 

Hemiptera, instructions for collecting — P. K. Uiiler. (R. 1S58) 109 

Hemirhamphus rosa> from coast of California, description of D. S. Joudax ; C. 

H. Gilbert. (P. 1880) 425 

Hemirhombus fimbriatus, description of — G. B. GooDi:; T. II. Beax. (P. 1885) 650 

Hempuill, H., collection of shells from Florida— W. H. Dall. (P. 188:!) 513 

Hexdeusox, Johx G., aboriginal remains near Niiples, 111. (R. 1882) 540,535 

Henry County — 

Illinois, mounds in— T. M. Shallexberger. (R. 1881) 481,515 

Iowa, mounds at Snake Den, near Salem — W. V. Baxta ; Joiix Garretsox. 

(R. 1881) , , 481,515 

Iowa, mouuds in— George C. Vax Allkx. (R. 1882) 540 

Henry and the telegraph— W. B. Taylor. (R. 1878) 311,405 

Henry as a discoverer — A. M. Mayer 350, 417 

Henry, J. 

Biographical memoir of— A. Gray. (R. 1878) 311,407 

Deposition of, in the case of Morse vs. O'Rielly, taken September, 1879 115 

Examination of, by English Scientific Commission 329 

Life and character of— J. C. Wellixg 35(i, 338 

Memoir of, and sketch of his scientific work — \V. B. Ta yloi: 35G, 339 

Memorial of, by United States Congress : 356 

Monument to, act of Congress for 356 

Report of Special Committee of Board of Kegents on commnuication of — C. 

C. Felton. (R. 1857) 107, 329, 115 

Scientific writings of 558, 550 

Statue of, unveiling of, address at the. (R. 1833) 593,585 

proceedings of Congress relative to 356 

report of Executive Committee on. (R. 1880) 442 

Henry, J., papers by- 
Account of Priestley's lens. (R. 1859) 110 



734 CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 

Henry, J., papers by — Continued. 

Acoustics applied to pu-blic buildings. (R. 1856) _ 91 

Address on the Smitlisouiau Institution. (R. 1853) E,67 

Annual reports, 1865-1877 (reprints) 343 

Annual reports, 1847-1877. See each annual report. 

Appendix to notice of Schoenbein, tlio discoverer of ozone. (R. 1868) 22^ 

Aurora directions. (R. 1855) 77 

Circular — 

of instructions to observatories relative to telegraphic announcement of 

astronomical discoveries 263 

relating to collections in archajology and ethnology 205 

relative to ancient mining in Lake Superior copper region. (R. 1861).. 149 

relative to collections of birds from Middle and South America 168 

relative to earthquakes 148 

relative to heights 236 

respecting copyrights. (li. 1854) 75 

respecting new report on libraries. (R. 1854) 75 

sent with specimens presented. (R. 1872) 271 

to entomologists 178 

to officers of Hudson's Bay Company 137 

Color-blindness. (R. 1877) 323 

Communication relative to a publication by Professor Morse. (R. 1857.) 

107, 329, 115 

Currents of atmosphere and aerial navigation. (R. 1860) 147 

Descriiition of Smithsonian anemometer. (R. 1860) 147 

Digest of act of organization of Smithsonian Institution C, 328 

Directions for constructing lightning-rods 237 

Earthquake directions. (R. 1855) 77 

Effect of the moon on the weather. (R. 1871) 249 

Eulogy on A. D. Bache. (R. 1870) 244,329, 379 

Exposition of bequest of Smithsou E 

History of electro-magnetic telegrai)h. (R, 1857) 107, 329, 115 

Instructions for observations of thunder-storms 235 

Investigation of illuminating materials. (R. 1880) _- 389, 442 

Letter to Secretary of Treasury on payment of interest in coin. (R. 1865).. 209 

Memoir of W.W.Seaton. (R. 1866)..". 214 

Meteorological stations, cost of establishing. (R. 1858) 109 

Mode of testing bnilding materials and account of the marble used in the 

extension of the United States Capitol. (R. 1856) 91 

Notes relative to George Catlin. (R. 1872) 271 

. Notes to— 

accounts of lightning discharges by G. W. Dodge and others. (R. 1867). 215 

article on American migration, by F. von Hellwald. (R. 1866) 214 

article on horary variations of barometer by M. Vaillaut. (R. 1866).... 214 

article on vitality byH.H.Higgins. (R. 1866) 214 

articles- on meteorology, by G. Latimer and others. (R. 1871) 249 

Notice of Parker Cleavcland. (R. 1859) 110 

On a xihysical observatory. (R. 1870) 244 

On the " Moon hoax." (R. 1873) 275 

Organization of local scientific societies. (R. 1875) 298 

Programme of organization of Smithsonian F, 328 

Queries relative to tornadoes 190 

Registration of periodical phenomena. (R. 1855) 77 

Remarks appended to meteorological articles, by W. C. Dennis and others. 

(R. 1866) 214 



CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS 735 

Hknry, J., papers by— Coutiuuod. 

Reply to memorial on Lowe's aeronautic voyage. (R. ISGD) I47 

Keport of Secretary, 1817-1877. (R. 1847-1877) . .H, I, 2\, '28, T.l, r>7, (57, 7;), 77, DI, 
107, 109, 110, 147, 14a, 150, 187, 188, 200, 214, 215, 224,228, 244,210,271 '"75' 
286, 298, 200, :!2;5 

Researches ill sound. (R. 1878) UU 405 

Statenieut in relation to the history of the olcetro-maguetic telegraph.. . lir>,:520 
Suggestions relative to objects of scientific investigation in Russian 



America 



207 



Syllabus of course of lectures on physics. (R. 1856) <jl 

Henuy, J., and others. Scientific instructions to Captain Ilall. (R. 1371) 249 

Henry, J. ; Du PuK, W. Earthquakes in North Carolina, 1874. (R. 1874).... 286 
IIexky, J. ; GUYOT, A. Directions for meteorological observations. (R. 1855.) 

19, 77, 148 
Hkxry J. ; KxiGur, R. T. Connection of gales of wind and aurora. (R. 1871) . . 219 
Henry J.; Mouius, O. W. Quantity of rain at dillereut heights. (R. 1855)... 77 

Hknry, J.; Russell, R. Lcjctnres and notes on meteorology. (R. 1854) 75 

Henry, J. ; Wallach, R. Eeportof Committee of Regents on hre at the Smith- 

soni'an. (R. 1864) 18.8,329 

Henshall, J. A., notes on collection of fishes obtained by, from East Florida— D. 

• S.Jordan. (P. 1880) 4j5 

Hensiiaw, W. H. Animal carvings from the mounds of the Mississippi Valley. 

(E. 1880, 1881) 542 

Hcrbariuni captured iu Tenuossee — II. R. Wirtz. (R. 1862) 150 

Hermaphrodite fishes, translation. (P. 1884) 607 

Heron, boat-billed, from Central America, description of new species of — R. 

RiKGWAY. (P. 1885) G50 

llerpetology of Hawai ian and Fanning Islands — T. II. Streets {M>'3 

Ib-ischel, J. F. W., memoir of, by N. S. DODGK. (R. 1871) 249 

Herschel, J. F. W. On atoms. (R. 1862) 150 

Herschel, W. — 

Eulogy on— 1<\ Arago. ( R. 1870) 211 

Synopsis of scientific writings of -E. S. Holden ; C. S. Hastings. (R. 1880.) 

441,426 

Hesperomy truci, description of— R. W. SilUFELDT. (P. 1885) 650 

H-ssian fly, parasites of the— C. V. Riley. (P. 1885) 650 

Heterandria ommata, description of— D. S. Jordan. (P. 1884) 607 

Hexanchus coriuns, now si)ecies of notidanoid shark, description of — D. S. Juii- 

dan; C.U.Gilbert. (P. 1S80) 425 

HiGGiNS, H. H. On vitality, with notes by J. Henry. (R. 1866) 214 

High antiquity in Europe, study of— A. Morlot. (R. 1862; R. 1864) 150,188 

Highland County, Ohio, earthwork in— J. P. MacLran. (R. 188:?) 583, 59:5 

IIiLDRETH, S. P. Meteorological observations, Mariettaj Ohio 120 

Hii.Gai:d, Vj. \V. Geology of Lower Louisiana and salt deposit on Petite Anso 

Island , 248 

HlLGARD, J. E. — 

Description of magnetic observatory at the Smithsoniau Institution. (R. 

1850) -■-■ IW 

Tides and tidal action in harbors. (R. 1874) 2^^6, 390 

and others. Scientific instructions to Captain Hall. (R. 1871) .- 240 

Hill, A.J. Map of antiquities of United States. (R.1861) 140 

Hill, G. W.— 

Ancient earthworks of Ashland County, Ohio. (R.1877) -'^-^ 

Antiqnities of uorthern Ohio. (R. 1874) -■'^' 

Hill T Man i-f solar eclipse of ISIarch 15, 1858, and description of the occulta- 

' tor 101 



736 CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 

HiLLiER, S. L. Effect of liglituing. fR. I'GG) i>14 

HiNCKS, W. Ou Smithsouian exchanges. (R. l-'60) 147 

Hints on public arcLitecture — R. D. OwEX P 

Hippocampua uutiquorum, occurrence of, on St. George's Bauk^G. B. Goode. 

(P. 1878) 332 

Kippoglossoides — 

elassodon, new species of flounder, from Puget Sound, descriptiou of — D. S. 

Jordan; C.H.Gilbert. (P. 1880) 425 

exilis, now flounder, from coast of California, description of— D. S. Jordan ; 

C.H.Gilbert. (P. 1880) _ 425 

Hippoj^lossus vulgaris, occurrence of, at Oonalaska and St. Micliaels, Alaska — T. 

II. Bean. (P. 1879) 333 

Hirunda saturata, descriptiou of— R. Ridgway. (P. 1883) 548 

Histiobranclius infernalis, new subgen., and species of, synopsis of^T. Gill. (P. 

1883) - 548 

Histiopboca {^Plioca fascial a) skeleton of— F. W. True. (P. 1883) 548 

Historical — 

documents in Guatemala— C. H. Berendt. (R. 1876) 299 

manuscripts, catalogue of collections of— L. Berlandier. (R. 1854) 75 

sketch of Academy of Sciences of Paris— M. Flourens. (R. 1862) 150 

sketch of Henry's contribution to electro-magnetic telegraph — W. B. TVi.Y- 

lor. (R. 1878) 341,405 

sketches of vestiges of antiquity in United States— S. F. Haven 71 

Society of Minnesota, grammar and dictionary of Dakota language 40 

study of jade— S. Blondel. (R. 1876) 299 

History — 

ancient, of North America— M. Much. (R. 1871) 249 

and antiquities of Santa Rosa Island, California— S. Bowers. (R. 1877) .. 323 

and archaiology, Mexican — B.Mayer 86 

and climate ot New Mexico— T. A, McPaelin. (R. 1877) 323, 396 

and geology, boundary lino between— E. Suess. (R. 1872) 271 

and origin of Royal Society of London— C. A. Alexander. (R. 1863) 187 

Indian, notes on— F. V. Hayden. (R. 1867) 215 

of Chester County, Pa.— W. Darlington. ( R. 1862) 150 

of Commander Islands, contributions to the. See Commander Islands. 

of discovery of planet Neptune- B. A. Gould 18 

of discovery relative to magnetism. ("R. 1863) 187 

of education in the United States— F. A. Packard. (R. 1863) 187 

of electro-magnetic telegraph— J. Henry. (R. 1857) 107 

of fresh-water algaj of North America— H. C. Wood 211 

of marine algaj—W. H. Harvey 32,43,95,96 

of my youth, an autobiography — F. Arago. (R.1870) 244 

of North American grasshoppers, circular in reference to 163 

of petroleum or rock oil— T. S. Hunt. (R. 1861) 149 

of Royal Institution of Great Britain- E. Mailly. (R. 1SG7) 215 

of Smithsonian exchanges— G. H. Boehmer. (R. 1881) ..515,477 

of Smithsonian Institution- W. J. Rhees 328 

of transactions of Anthropological Society of Paris, 1865-1867 — P. Broca. 

(R.1868) 224 

of works of Cuvior— M. Flourens. (R. 1868) ; ;^24 

Hitchcock, E. — 

Illustrations of surface geology 90 

On erosions of earth's surface ''0 

On geology of New England '^0 

Traces of glaciers in Massachusetts and Vermont PO 



CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 737 

Hitchcock, Komyx. — 

Circular No. 24, Appcudix: Plau of a collection to illusstrate the textile in- 
dustries of the United States, to be exhibited at the World's Industrial 
and Cotton Ceatounial Exposition of 13S4-18S5, at Xew Orleans (P 

1384) ; G07 

Report on food section, National Museum, for 1831. (K. 183-4, ii) 018 

Keport on section of foods, National Museum for 1885, (R. 1883, ii) 054 

Report on textile industries section, National Museum, for 1884. (R. 1884, ii) G18 
Report ou section of textile industries, National Museum, for 188.'). (R. 

1885,11) 0.-.4 

Hoax, tbe Moon — J. IIexky. (R. 187:5) 075 

IIODGE, C. Prayer at funeral of Joseph Ifcnry 350 

IIODGINS, .J. G.— 

Meteorological stations of Upper Canada. (R. 1858) 109 

Meteorological system of Canada. (R. 1SG5) 209 

ITodgkiuson, Eaton, memoir of— R. Rawsox. (R. 18G8) 224 

IIODGsox, W. B., and others. On publication of Spanish works on New Mex- 
ico. (R. 1855) 77 

HOEK, M. Letter in reference to meteoric sliower of November 13, 18f)7 217 

Holcodus, memoir of— R. W. Gibbes 14 

HOLDEX, E. S.— 

Account of i^rogrcss in Astronomy — 

1879-1880. (R. 1880) ^ 442,427 

18S1. (R.1831) ' 515,483 

1832. (R.1882) 540,525 

1883. (R.1833) .'93,574 

1884. (R.1884) G23, 609 

Index catalogue of books relating to uebuhTc, clusters, etc 311 

Reports of American and foreign observatories. (R. 1879) 345 

Studies in Central American picture-writing. (E. 1879-'80) 47G 

IluLUEX, E. S.; BoEHMER, G. H. Report ofobservatoriea for 1830. (R. 1880). 442, 438 
HOLDEX, E. S.; IIastixgs, C. S. Synopsis of scientific writings of Sir William 

llerschel. (R. 1830) 442,426 

Holland Society of Science, Harlem. Prize questions. (R. 18GI, 18G4, 18G3, 

1373) 149,188,224,275 

Holmes, W. H.— 

Art in shell of the ancient Americans. (E. 1880-'81) 542 

Illustrated catalogue of portion of collections made in 1881. (E. Is81-'S2).. G31 

Origin and development of form and ornament in ceramic art 052 

Pottery of the ancient Pueblos G.")2 

Pottery of Mississippi valley 652 

Prehistoric textile fabrics. (E. 1881-82) 031 

Report on department of American Prehistoric Pottery, National Museum, 

for 1885 (R. 1885, n) 0.54 

Report ou department of American Aboriginal Pottery, National Museum, 

for 1884. (R. 1884, 11).. -- 043 

Holmgren, F. Color-blindness in relation to accidents by rail and sea. {II. 

1377) :^^3.399 

HoMSHER, Dr. G. W.— 

Remains on White Water River, Indian. (R. 1832) 535,.540 

The Glidwell mound, Frankliu County, lud. (R. 1882) - - -535, .540 

Honey creepers from the Lesser Antilles, description of supposed new, with a 

synopsis ofthe species of the genusCer</iJo?a—R.RiDG WAY. (P. 1-35). 050 
Hoplopagriure, suecies of, found in Americau waters, review of the— I). S. Joi:- 

"dax; J. SwAix. (P. 1884) ^'07 

n. Mis. 170 47 



738 CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 

Horary variations of barometer — M. Vaillaxt. (K. 1866) 214 

HOEX, G. H. ; Le Conte, J. L. Classification of tlie coleoi^tera of North Amer- 
ica 505, 507 

Horn AD AY, \V. T.— 

Brief directions for removing and preserving the skins of mammals. (P. 

1883) 589 

Classification of collections to illustrate taxidermy. (P. 1881) 467,456 

Ilornbleude andesites from the new volcano on Bogosloff Island, Bering Sea — 

G. P. Merrill. (P. 1885) 650 

HoTCHKiss, T. P. Indian remains in Caddo parish, Louisiana. (R. 1872) 271 

HowiTT, A. W. Australian groap relations. (R. 1883) 588,593,596 

Hough, F. B.— 
Dates of — 

blossoming of plants 182 

defoliation or fall of loaf of plants 182 

first appearance of birds 182 

first appearance of fish 182 

first appearance of insects 182 

first appearance of reptiles 182 

foliation of plants 182 

opening and closing of lakes 182 

oiiening and closing of rivers 182 

ripening of fruits 182 

Periodical phenomena, 18-ji to 1839 182 

Hough, J. Mounds in Washington County, Miss. (R. 1879) 345 

Hours, best, to find mean temperature — C. Djcwey. (R. 1857) 107 

Ilow'gate Polar Expedition, natural history of Arctic America — L. Kumlien.. . 342 
Hoy, p. R.— 

Journal of an exploration of western Missouri. (R. 1864) 188 

On J)H?)7^*<om« Za/-u?«?H, a salamander of Wisconsin. (R. 1854) 75 

Hubbard, H. B. Shell deposits on Short Creek, West Virginia. (R. 1881) . . .481, 515 

Hubbard, J. S. Investigations of Bicla's comet. (R. 1862) 150 

Hudson's Bay — 

notes on fishes from— T. II. Bean. (P. 1881) 4G7 

Company — 

Kennicott's exi)lorations. { E. 1863) 187 

circular to officers of — J. Henry 137 

districts, birds of, list of the— L. M. Turner. (P. 1885) 650 

letter to officers of— G. Simpson ,... 137 

Territory, Red River settlements, Indian remains in — D. GuNX. (R. 1867). 215 

Territory, observation in— B. R. Ross. (R. 1859) 110 

Huggins, W. Results of spectrum analysis applied to the heavenly bodies. 

(R. 186G) 214 

Ilnmau — 

race, probable future of the — A. de Canoolle. (R. 1875) 298 

remains from Patagonia— A. RiED. (R. 1862) _. 150 

Humbert, Fred. Lucilia mactUaria infesting man. (P. 1883) 548 

Humidity, relative, tables of— J. H. Coffin 87 

Humming-bird, anew (./<//((s Ellioti), from Guatemala- R. Ridgway. (P. 1878) 332 
Humming-birds — 

described, list of^U. G. Elliot 334 

monograph of— D. G. Elliot 317 

IIuJiPiiREYS, A. A. Method of ascertaining amount of water in rivers. (R. 

1353) 109 

Hungarian National MusiMun, acknowledgment for birds. (R. 1363) 187 



CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 739 

Ilimgary, prehistoric antiquities of— F. F. Romer. (T{. l^iTG) 'J'J9, 392, -J-JO 

Hunt, J. G. Report oii a fragniont of cloth taken I'loni a niuuiid in Ohio. (l\ 

18^3) 348 

Hunt, T. S.— 

Account of progress in Geology. (R. 18S2-'3;!) 510, r,'j:!, 526, 575 

Chemistry of the earth. (R. 18G9) 'J,'8, 376 

History of i)otrolcuni or rock oil. (R. 18G1) M'J 

HUNTINGTOX, G. C. Climate of Kelley's Island, Oliio. (R. ISGti) 'JI4 

Hurricane — 

at Tortola, St. Thomas, and Porto Rico— G. A. Latimki:. ( R. l-j'GT) 'Jlij 

in island of St. Thomas. (R. 18G7) 215 

Huxley, T. H. Principles and methods of palajontology. (R. 1-^G'J) 2'iS 

Hybognathus hayi, new species from Mississippi, description of— D. S. Joudax. 

(P. 1884) GOT 

Hybopsis montanus, new species of, description of — S. E. Mi:ek. (P. 13';4) GOT 

Hybrid ducks, domesticated {anas honchas and ol>scttra)—E. Sladij. (P. 1884).. COT 

Hydi-obia (?) wctherbyi, notes on— W. H. Dall. (P. 18S5) G.'.O 

Hydrobiina?, researches upon the — W. Stimpsox 201 

Hydrogen as a gas and as a metal — J. E. Reynolds. (R. I8T0) 211 

Hydroida of the northeastern coast of America, notice of the — A. E. Veiuui.l. 

(P. 1885) r.50 

Ilygrometrical tables — A.Guy'ut 15:i 

Hymeuopeuajus — 

modestus, description of — S. L Smith. (1*. IH85) G50 

robustns, description of— S. I. Smith. (P. 1885) G50 

llyracnoptera — 

instructions for collecting— B. Clemexs. (R. 1858) lO'J 

letter relative to catalogue of— H. De Saussurk. (R. 1802) 150 

monograph of— H. De Saussure 254 

of Arctic regions— S.n. Scudder and others :!!- 

Ilypargyrus, new genus, from White River, Indiana, description of— C. II. Gil- 
bert. (P. 1884) GOT 

Hyperchoristus Tanneri, new genus and species of, synopsisof— T. Gill. (P. 

1,-8:5) •"•'3 

Ilyperoodou .semijunctiis of Cope, note upon— F. W.True. (P. 1885) G.jO 

Hypsometrical tables— A. GUYOT l'>-{ 

I. 

Ice — 

disappearance of— R. H. Gardixer. (R. 18G0) 117 

formation of, at the bottom of water— M. Exgeluardt. ,{^l. ISGG) 211 

observations on— D. Walker l^G 

Iceland- 
vegetable colonization of— C. Maritxs. (R. 1858) 101> 

volcanic eruptions and earthquakes in (G. II. Boeumkr, translator). (R. 

1885) 019,644 

volcanoes, earthquakes, and geysers, bibliography of— G. H. Boeiimer. 

(R. 188.5) ; 649,644 

Ichthyography', terminology of, contribution to the— T. Gill. (P. 1881) GOT 

Ichthyologicai explorations in 1884, report on— D. S. Jordax. (R. 1884, ii) .. - ()48 
Ichthyology. See Fishes. 

Contributions to North American- 
Part I. Review Rafinesque's memoirs— D. S. Jordax - 305 

Part II. A. Notes on Coftidce, (etc.) B. Synopsis SUitridiv—l^. S. 

-. 30G 

Jordax 



740 CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 

Ictlitliyolugy— Continued. 

Contributious to North American — 

Part III. A. Diatribatiou of fislies of Alleghany region, (etc.) — D. S. 
JOKDAX ; A. W. Brayton. B. Synopsis of family Catos- 

toinidw — D. S, Jordax 308 

of Hawaiian and Fanning Islands and California — T. II. Streets oO;3 

status of— T. Gill -.. 247 

Ichthyomyzon castaneous — T. H. Beax. (P. 1882) r)18 

Icichthys Lockingtoni, new species deep-water fish from coa'^t of California — 

D.s. Jordan; C.H. Gilbert. (P. 1880) 425 

Icostens a^uigniaticus of California, description of— W. N. Lockixgton. (P. 

1880) 425 

Icterus— 

cucullatus, Swainson and its geographical variations — R, Eidgway. (P. 

1885) 650 

curasoeusis, nejr si)ecie8, from collection by J. E. Benedict and W. Nye — 

E. Eidgway. (P. 1884) 607 

description of new species of, from West Indies — G. N. Lawren'CU. (P. 

1880) 425 

Idaho, distribution of forest trees in— W. W. Jonxsox. (E. 1870) 244 

Identification of— 

artisan and artist— N. Wiseman. (R. 1870) 244 

the species of Cijprinidce and Caiostomidos, described by Dr. Charles Girard — 

D.S. Jordax. (P. 1885) \ 650 

Identity — 

of Cottus maculatus with Co</it« &H&a7is— T. H. Bean. (P. 1885) 650 

probable, of MotacUla occularis, Swinhoe ; and M. amurensis, Seebohm — R. 

Eidgway. (P. 1883) 548 

Illinois — 

Adams County, mounds in, near Quincy — W. G. Axdersox. (E. 1879) 345 

Albany, mounds near — E. J. Farquharsox. (E. 1874) 286 

board of education ; meteorological system for every State. (E. 1855) 77 

Bureau County, mounds in— A. S. Tiff ax Y. (E. 1881) 481,515 

Carroll County, mounds in— James M. Williamson. (E. 1882) 535,540 

. Cass County, buried flints in— Dr. J. F. Snyder. (.E. 1881) 431.515 

Indian remains in — Dr. J. F. Snydkk. (E. 1881) 481,515 

Cobden, ancient remains near — F, M. Farrell. (E.1881) 481,515 

deposit of flint implements in — J. F. Snyder. (E. 1876) 29'J 

Fox Ei ver Valley, antiquities of— W. Hector Gale. (E. 1881) 481, 515 

habits of the gopher of— J. B. Parvix. (E. 1851) 75 

Henry and Stark Counties, mounds in— T. M. Shallexberger. (E. 1881). 481, 515 

JacLwu County, antiquities of— G. H. French. (E. 1881) 481, 515 

Knox County, antiquities of— M. A. McClelland. (R.1831) 481,515 

Lawrence County, antiquities of— A. Pattox. (R. 1873) 275 

Lower Wabash River Valley, native trees of, notes on — R. Ridgway. (P. 

1882) 518 

Madison County, stone cists in, near Highland— A. Oehler. (R. 1879) 345 

Makanda, Jackson County, stone fort near— G. H. Frexcii. (R. 1881). ..481, 515 

Mason County, antiquities of— J. COCHRAXE, (E.1877) 323 

Mercer County, ancient mounds of— T. McWhorter. (E. 1374) 286 

Mississippi Bottom, mounds of the— Wm. McAdams, Jr. (E. 1882) 535, 540 

Naples, aboriginal remains near— Joiix G. Hexdersox. (E. 1832) 535,540 

now species of Ci/j;?-J«o(?rtHi from— D. S.Jordan; C.H.Gilbert. (P. 1882). 518 

Pike County, mounds in — B.Mitchell. (E. 1879) 345 

Eock Bluir, description of human skull from— J. A. Meigs. (R. 1867) 215 

Rock Island, shell-bed skull from— A. S. Tiffany. (E. 1874) 286 



CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 741 

lUiuois — Coiitiuued. 

Rock Islaud Coualy, mounds iu — T. TuoMi'Su.v. (K. l.~71.)) 345 

Antiquities of— A. Tokllxkr. (R. 1879) 3.I5 

Rock River Valley, mouud builders iu — J. SilAW. (R. If'TT ) '3>.l 

Sangamon County, mounds in— James WiCKEUSn.vM. (R. 1833) oaS.fjlKt 

Spoon River Valley, mounds iu— W. II. Adams. (R. 1379 ; R. I!r81 ; R. 1.-3:1) 

3 15, '181, 315, 538, .^9:i 

southern, agricultural fliut implemeuts iu — C. Rau. (R. 18G3) 2-J4, 370, 4 10 

Union County, antiquities of— T. M. Pkrrixe. (R. 1873) 27.") 

mounds in, near Anna — T. M. Perrixe. (R. 1872) 271 

Wayne County, antiquities of— II. F. Sibley. (R. 1881) 451,515 

Whiteside and La Sallo Couuties, mounds.in — J.D. Moody. (R. ISrl) ..481,515 
Whiteside County, antiquities of— W. II. Pratt. (R. 1S74) 'J3ij 

Illuminating materials, investigation of — J. Henry. (R. 1380) 442,389 

Image, stone, in Tennessee, account of discovery of — E. M. Grant. (R. 1370). 244 

Imperial — 

Academy of Sciences, Belles-lettres, and Arts, of Bordeaux. Prize questions. 

(R.18G3) '. 224 

Academy of Sciences, Vienna. Prize queslious. (R. 1SG4; R. 13G5) 138,209 

Geological Institute, Vienna, tertiary fossils presented by. (R. 18G3) 187 

Library of Vienna, books presented by. (R. 1365) 209 

Society of Natural Sciences of Cherbourg. Prize questions. (R. 18G4) 188 

Society of Science, Agriculture, and Arts, of Lille. Prize questions. (U. 

1865) 209 

Implement, wood, ancient, found in Connecticut— E. W. Ellsworth. (R. 1S7G) 299 

Implements — 

agricultural, North American stone period— C. Rau. (R. 18G3) 137, 440 

e(qiper, from Bayfield, Wis.— C Whittlesey. (R. 1885) 645, G 10 

Hint, agricultural, in southern Illinois— C. Rau, (R. 18GS) 224,410,370 

flint, deposits of, in Illinois— J. F. Snyder. (R. 137G) 2'.i9 

llint, in Holmes County, Ohio— II. B. Case. (R. 1877) 32:'. 

jadeite, of the Alaskan Innuits, on the source of the- E. W. Nelson. (P. 

18-?3) ^-1^ 

stone. North American— C. Rau. (R. 1872) 271,440,382 

Improvements, recent, in chemical arts- J. C. Booth ; C. Morfit 27 

Income, majority and minority reports on distribution of— J. A. Pearce ; J. 

Meacham. (R. 1853) 67,:?29 

Incorporation, act of, of Smithsonian Institution. See Congress. 

Independence County, Ark., mounds in— Dr. A. Jones. (R. 1881) 431,515 

Index catalogue of books and memoirs on nebula; and clusters— E. S. Holdev. 311 

Index — 

of genera of birds— S. F. Baird ^^-"^ 

4-0 
of Smithsonian publications ---• ^'° 

systematic and alphabetical, of publications of the Smithsonian Institu- 

', tion to July, 18G9. (R. 18G8) —< 

systematic, to list of foreign correspondents 257 

to genera of recent and fossil animals- S. II. Scudder ^^O 

to the literature of Uranium— H. C. Bolton. (R. 1885). 649,628 

to names applied to subdivisions of class Brachiojwda—'W. II. Dali 304 

to North American botany— S. Watson • ■■■■ 258 

to papers on anthropology published by Smithsonian Institution, 1847-1878— 

G. H. Boehmer. (R. 1S79) 345,421 

Indian — 

boys and girls at Hauqiton Normal Institute, Virginia, catalogue of casts of 

heads of— ]R. IL Pratt. (P. 1879) =^-" 



742 CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIOXS. 

Indian — Couluuied. 

bread, Tuckahoe, or— J. Howard Gore. (R. 1881) 515,482 

burial in California— W. M. King. (R. 1874) 286 

conjurer's practice, details of— A. S. Gatschet. (E. 1879-80) 476 

engraviu<^s on rocks along Green River Valley— J. G. Bruff. (R. 1872).. 271 

forts and dwellings, Indian Territory- W. E. Doyle. (R. 1876) 299 

gallery, the Catlin— T. Donaldson. (1885") C54 

history, notes on— F. V. Hayden. (R. 1367) 215 

languages— G. FLACnENECKER. (R. 1862) 150 

languages, method of recording— J. O. Dorsey ; A. S. Gatschet; S. R. 

RiGGS. (E. 1879-80 476 

languages. See G. Gibbs, F. L. O. Roehrig, S. R. Riggs, J. G. Shea, W. L. 
liardisty. 

linguistics, account of library of— J. G. Shea. (R. 1861) 149 

linguistics, recommendation of Shea's— G. Gibbs and others. (R. 1860) ... 149 

mode of making arrow-heads and obtaining fire — G. Crook. (R. 1871) 249 

mounds in southern Florida, esplorations of— -S. T. Walker. (R. 1879).. . 345 

mounds near Fort Wadsworth, Dak. — A. J. Comfort. (R. 1871) 249 

ocean, cyclone in the — N. Pike. (R, 1867) 215 

pliilology— AV. W. Turner. (E. 1851) 51 

photographs, catalogue of 216 

portraits and sketches of scenery, catalogue of — J. M. Stanley 53 

portraits, report of Committee of Regents on Stanley's gallery of. (R. 1857) 107 

pottery— C. Rau. (R. 1866) 214,368,440 

lirisoners at Saint Augustine, Fla., catalogue of casts of heads of— R. H. 

Pratt. (P. 1878) 332 

relics, catalogue of cabinet of, presented by J. H. Devereux. (R. 1872) 271 

relics from Schoharie, N. Y.— F. D. Andrews. (S.. 1879) 345 

remains in Caddo Parish, La.— T. P. HoTCHKiss. (R. 1872) 271 

remains in Cass Couuty, 111.— J. F. Snyder. (R, 1831) 481,515 

remains in Red River settlement, Hudson's Bay Territorj — D. GUNN. (R. 

1807) ■ 1 215 

remains near Prescott, Canada West— W. E. Guest. (R. 1856) 91 

River, Florida, fishes collected in, byE. E. Earll, list of— D. S. Jordan. (P. 

1884) 607 

Territory, Indian forts and dwellings in — W. E. Doyle. (R. 1876) 299 

tribes, cessions of land by, to United States— C. C. Eoyce. (E. 1879-80).. 476 

tribes of Upper Missouri — T. A. Culbertson. (R. 1850) 28 

village (Kushkushkee) near New Castle, Pa.— E. M. McConnell. (R. 1871) 249 

vocabularies— G. Gibbs. (R. 1802) 150 

vocabularies received from the Wheeler survey, list of— G. Gibbs. (R. 

1874) 286 

Indiana — 

Allen Couuty, antiquities of— E. S. Robertson. (R. 1874) 286 

ancient burial mound in— W.Pidgeon. (R. 1807) 215 

Do Kalb County, antiquities of— R.S.Robertson. (R. 1874) 236 

Franklin County, mounds in— E. R. Quick. (R. 1879) 345 

TheGlidwell mound. G. W. Homsher. (R. 1882) 535,540 

Green River Valley. Native trees of, notes on— E. Ridg^A'ay. (P. 1832) 518 

Knox C ouuty , antiquities of— A. Patton. (R. 1873) 275 

La Porte County, antiquities of— R. S. Robertson. (R. 1874) 286 

Rush County, mounds in— F. Jackman. (E. 1879) 345 

southern, new species of Hadropterus from, description of— J. Swain. (P. 

1883) 548 



CATALOGUE Ol-^ PUBLICATIONS. 74^"^ 

Indiana— Continued. 

Switz City swamp, Grccno County, fishes of, notes on IIr — C. IL (Jii.UKur. 

(P. 1831) '■•"" 

tornado in— J. CH.\rPK.r,SMiTii 59 

Vandcrburg County, mounds and earthworks in— Fi.oyd Stixsox. (R. 

1881) .' 48Lr.ir. 

White Water River, remains on— G. W. Homsiiek. (R. 188-J) mryJyW 

White River, Last, Fork of, fishes collected in, list of— C. 11. Gii.UKUT. {T. 

1^34 ) •'»'*" 

Indians. See California, Cape Flattery, Carib, Dakota, Ilaidah, Nevada, Kut- 
chin, Loucheux, Makah, Mandan, Maya, Navajo,lVrn, Portraits, Red River 
of the North, Shoslione, Sioux, Tinneh, Ton to. 

aboriginal, of America, language of— G. Gibbs. (R. 187fl) '-il 1 

Cree, system of relationship of— E. A. Watkixs. ( R. 1802) l-''0 

Dakota or Sioux, hinguago of— F.L.O.Rgeiiuig. (R.1871) '-^10 

Haidah, of Queen Charlotte's Islands, British Columbia— J. G. SWAX 267 

Kutchin tribes-S. JOXES. (R. 18GG) ;iM,:;(w 

Loucheux— W. L. Haudisty. (R. 1866) '-^14, %.. 

Makah— J. G. SWAX 220 

mortuary customs of-H. C. Yaruow. (E. 1879-'80) 4 /^G 

mythology of— J. W. Powell. ( E. 1879-80) 47G 

Navajo, sketch of the— J. Letteumax. (R. 1855) "<' 

of British America, account of— E. Petitot. (R. 1865) -09 

of Cape Flattery, Washington Territory— .L G. Swax 220 

of New Mexico and Arizona, collections obtained from the, illustrated cata- 
logue of-J. Ste\T2XS0X. (E. 1830-1881 ) •"' » - 

ofPeru-F.L.GALT. (R. 1877) ■- •^'•^ 

of valley of Red River of the Ngrth, ethnology of— W. 11. Gakdxer. (K. 

1870) ;V ~*^ 

of western Nevada and California, centennial mission to— S. Powers, (iv. 

1876) ^^^-, 

Pictographs of North America J"'" 

Pima,of Arizona— F. E. Grossmax. (R.1871) ^-•--- -;^_ 

Quillehute, Method of taking surf smelt— J. G. Swax. (P. 1830) ^■-•> 

sign language of-G. Mallery. (E. 1879-1830) 4'^Jj 

Sioux or Dakota-A. G. BiiACicETT. (R. 1876) V.o o^o 

Sioux or Dakota, language of-F.L. O. RoEilRiG. (R. 1871) - ~lJ,>i/» 

Tinneh or Chepewyan. of British and Russian Araerica-G. Gibbs and ot hcrs^ ^^^ 

(R. 18G6) ■-■■ '^"-.'^-a^ ' 044 

uses of brain and marrow of animals by— T. R. Peale. (R. is/ 1 ) 

Induction — 044 

and deduction— J. vox Liebig. (R. 1370) ~ 

electricity of, in clonds-F. Zaxtedesciii. (R. 1870) ........--.- ~ 

Inflammation in arteries after ligature, acupressure, and torsim,. lonerlecluro ^^^ 

No. vii— E. O. Shakespeare ^^.^ 

Infusoria- J. W. Bailey ^^2 

Infusorial earths, examination of— A.M. Edwards --- ~^- 

Ixgersoll, E. Fish mortality in Gulf of Mex-ico. (P. 1>81) - ------ ^^^ 

Iniomi nom. nov., note on— T. Gill. (P. 1384) '.",'1' 

Ixrx;S.M. Catalogueofacollectionofsamplesof raw cotton presented to ^^^ 

the U. S. xVational Museum. (P. 1832) - - - - -•-•-•-'-■ ' ;;• " 

Innuits, Alaskan, jadeite implements of the, on the source of the-E. W. Nel ^^^ 

SON. (P. 1883) 

Inquiries relative to— o^.j 

crawfish and other Crustacea - --- ojg 

disease known as chorea-S. W. Mitchell. (R. 13/4) 



744 CAT-zVLOGUE OF TUBLICATIONS. 

luqniry relative to food-iislaes of United States— S F. Baird 231 

luscriptions, rock, in Johnson County, Ark.— Edward Greex. (R. 1881) 481,515 

Insect instincts and transformations, lecture on — J.G.Morris. (R. 1855) 77 

Insects- 
arsenic acid for 2)rotectiug anatomical preparations from — J. K. S. Jacksox. 

(P. 1878) n3-i 

circular concerning the department of— S. F. Baird -448 

classification of, from embryological data — L. Agassiz 16 

collection of, niade in the vicinity of New Orleans, La., 1882 and 1883. Ob- 
servations on— R. W. Shufeldt. (P. 1884) G07 

dates of first appearance of— F. B. IIouGU ^ 182 

department of, National Museum, report of curator for 1884. (R. 1884, li).. 648 
department of, National Museum, report on, for 1835 — C. V. Riley. (R. 

188.5,11) .' 654 

directions for collecting and preserving — A. S. Packard ; 261 

instructions for collecting— S. F. Baird. (R. 1858) 101) 

of Arctic America— L. Kumlien 'M2 

ofKorguelcn Island— C. R. Osten Sacken; II. A. Hagex 294 

Installation of collections in National Museum, plans for — G. B. Goode. (P. 

1881) 467,472 

Instincts and transformations of insects, lecture on — .1. G. Morris. (R. 1855). 77 

Institute — 

of Bologna, Academy of Sciences of the. Prize questions. (R. 1862) 150 

of France, historical sketch of, by M. Flourens. (R. 1862) 150 

of Jamaica, public museum of the, fishes received from, catalogue of — T. 

H. Bean; H. G. Dresel. (P. 1884) 607 

of Rupert's Land, circular of. (R. 1861) 149 

Royal Scientific and Literary, of Lombard J. Prize questions. (R. 1865).. 209 

Institution of Civil Engineers, London. Prize questions. (R. 1862) 150 

Institutions — 

domestic, iu correspondence with Smithsonian Institution, list of. (R. 

1853) 67,69,238 

foreign, in correspondence with Smithsonian Institution, list of. (R. 1853; 

R. 1864; R. 1865; R. 1885) .....67,64,154,225,243,309,459,490,635 

iu the United States receiving publications of the Smithsonian Institution 512 
in United States and British Provinces of North Ameiica, list of — "W.J. 

RlIEKS 116 

in which phonography is taught. (R. 1856) 91 

scientific and literary, in United States, list of xirincipal 335 

Instructions — 

for archffiological investigations— G. Gibbs. (R. 1861) 149 

for collecting — 

coleoptera — J. L. Le Conte. (R. 1858) 109 

diatomacea— A. M. Edwards 366 

diptera— II. LoEW ; R. Ostex Sacken. (R. 1858) 109 

hemiptera— P. R. Uhler, (R. 1858) 109 

hymenoptera — B. Clemens. (R. 1858) 109 

insects— S. F. Baird, (R. 1858) 109 

land and fresh-water shells — J. Lewis 363 

lepidoptera— B. Clemens. (R. 1858) 109 

myriapods, phalangid?e, etc. — H. C. Wood. (R. 1866) 214 

nests and eggs of North American birds. (R, 1858) — 139 

neuroptera— P. R. Uhler. (R. 1858) 109 

orthoptera— P, R, Uhler, (R, 1858) 109 

for observations of thunder storms— J. Henry 235 



CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 745 

InstructioQS — Coutiuued. 

for research relative to ethnology ami philology of America— G. GiBits IGO 

for taking paper molds— A. P. Niblack. (P. 186'.]) 590 

in reference to collecting nests and eggs of North Amerie:in l>ii(Is— T. M. 

BkEWER ];;r) 

to Captain Ilall for Arctic ohservatiou— J. IIknuy and otiiers. (K. 1p71).. 'Jl'.l 
to ohservatories relative to telegraphic announcement of astronomical ilis- 

coveries— J. IIexuy 263 

lustruments, meteorological — 

articles on, in Smithsonian. (R. 1874) 'JdG 

description of— L. Casklla. (K. 1859) 110 

description of— A. Guyot; J. IIkxry. (R. 1855) 77,19,148 

Integrals, general, of planetary motion — S. Nkwcomb 281 

Intensity of heat and light of the sun— L. W. Mkkcii. {11. 1S5G) 01,83 

Interest, letter to Secretary of Treasury on payment of, in coin— J. Hknky. (It. 

18G5) -200 

Intermixture of races — G. Gibbs. (U. ISiJl) 183 

Internal structure of the eartli — J. G. IjAKXaud 310 

International — 

Arclueological Congress, Antwerp, 181)0. (R. 18GG) 214 

code of symbols of archceology — G. De Moiitillkt ; E. CnAXTin;. (R. 1S75) 208 

exchange, history of— G. II. BOEiniEii .^)15, 477 

Exhibition, Philadelphia. See Centennial. 

Fisheries Exhibition, Berlin, catalogue of United States exiiibit at — G. B. 

GOODE 413 

Interpolation, methods of, applicable to gradn.ation of irregular series. Parts 

I, II.— E. L. De Forest. (R. 1871; R. 187:5) 240,275 

Introduction — 

lettersof. (R. 1865) 209 

to study of Coptic language — M. Kabis. (R. 18G7) 215 

Invertebrata, marine — 

from New England coast distributed by U. S. Fisb Commission, list of^A. 

E. Verrill; R. Ratubux. (P. 1879) :■.:?:! 

of Grand Manan— W. Stimpsox 50 

of the northcastera coast of America, recent additions to — A. E. Verrill. 

(P. 1882) 518 

of the northeastern coast of America, recent additions to the, notice of— A. 

E. Verrill. (P. 1885) G50 

of northeastern coast of America, notice of recent additions to— A. E. Ver- 
rill : 

Part I. Annelida, etc. (P. 1879) :^;':5 

Part II. AfoZ/«8ca, with notes on ^'InHeZicfa, etc. (P. 1830) 425 

Part III. Catalogue of MoUusca recently added to fauna of southern 

New England. (P. 18r0) 425 

Invertebrate fossils — 

check-list of— T. A. Coxrad 200 

from Arkansas, Wyoming, Colorado, and Utah, descriptions of new— C. A. 

White. (P. 1880) -l-^ 

(iMeso-Cenozoic), report on department of, National Museum for 1885— C. 

A.White. (R. 1885, 11) ti''^ 

of North America, check-list of— F. B. Meek 177. 183 

(Paleozoic), report on department of. National Museum for 1885— C. D. 

Walcott. E. (1885,11) '•['■* 

reitort on— F. B. Meek; F. V. Hayoen ^~~ 



746 CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 

Invertebrates. See Marine invertebrates. 

department of, National Museum, reports of curators for 1884. (R. 1834, ii). G48 
marine, duplicates, list of, distributed by Museum. Series iv — E. S. Tarr; 

It. Rathbux - 516 

marine, list of, distributed by the Fish Commission. Series i. — A. E. Ver- 

rill; R. Rathbun 494 

marine, distributed by U. S. National Museum, list of— R. Ratiibun. 

(P. 1831) 40:',, 4(57, 471 

Investigation of — 

American ethnological, plan for— H. R. Schoolcuaft. (R. 1SS5) G45, G49 

anatomy and physiology of the rattlesnake — S. W. Mitchell 135 

disturbances of horizontal component of magnetic force — A. D. Bache 162 

disturbances of vertical component of magnetic force — A. D. Baciie 175 

eleveu-year iieriod in amplitude of solar-diurnal variation and disturbances 

of magnetic declination — A. D. Bache 113 

illuminating materials— J. Henry. (R. 1880) 442, 389 

influence of moon on magnetic declination — A. D. Bache 132 

orbit of Neptune and tables of its motion — S. Newcomb 199 

orbit of Uranus, with tables of its motion — S. Newcomb 262 

Investigations — 

anthropological, in 1879—0. T. Mason. (R. 1879) :]45, 420 

archajological, instructions for — G. Gibbs. (R. 1861) 149 

chemical and physiological, relative to certain American vertebrata — .1. 

Jones 82 

of Bieia's comet— J. S. Hubbard. (R. 1862) 1.'30 

relating to the date of the extermination of Steller's sea-cow — L. Stejneger. 

(P. 1884) 607 

scientific, in Russian America, suggestions relative to — J. Henry 207 

Iowa — 

ancient relics in— J. B. Cutts. (R. 1872) 271 

Delaware County, mounds in— M. W. Moulton. (R. 1877) 323 

iishes collected in August, 1884, list of— D. S. Jordan; S. E. Meek. (P. 

1885) 650 

Henry County, mounds in— George C. Van Allen. (R. 1882) 540 

Mills County, antiquities of— Seth Dean. (R. 1881) 481,515 

mounds at Snalio Den, near Salem, Henry County — W. V. Banta; John 

Garuetson. (R. 1881) 481,515 

Muscatine County, mounds in — T. Thompson. ,(R. 1879) 345 

Irby, J. R. McD. Works and character of Smithson 327 

Iron — 

and copper, preservation of, in salt water- A. E. Becquerai.. (R. 1864)... 188 

manufacture, early, in Virginia — R. A. Brock. (P. 1885) 650 

rust, destructive eli'ect of. (R. 1861) 149 

Ironclad MonadnocJc, deviation of compasses on — W. Harkness 239 

Iroquois, myths of the— E. A. Smith. (E.1830-'81) 542 

Irradiation— Abb6 MoiGNO. (R. 1866) 214 

Irritation of polarized nerve, effect of— B. F. Lautenbach. (R. 1878) 341, 411 

Irving, Washington, notice of, by C. C. Felton. (R. 1859) 110 

Irving, W. On publication of Spanish works on New Mexico. (R. 1855) 77 

Irwin,B.J.D. Tucson meteorite. (R. 1863) 187 

Isesthes, Gilberti, description of— D. S. Jordan. (P. 1882) 518 

Island — 

Petite Anse, salt deposit on— E. W. Hilgard 248 

St. Thomas, hurricane in— G. A. Latimer. (R. 1867) 215 



CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 747 

Island — Contiuiied. 

Santa Eosa, lii.st(>iy ;in(I anti(inities of — S. FxjWKHS. (U. Id77) :t-,';j 

Islands — 

Fanning, natnial history of — T. H. Stukkts HO^ 

Hawaiian, uatnral hist oiy of— T. II. Streets :J03 

Kerguelen, natural history of— J. II. Kidder and otlwrs 'J'j:5, 'J'J-l 

North American, meteorological stations and observers in. (K. l!-!0-<).. ..'2Jl,:c;{ 

Pacific, natural hist ory of— W. II. Pease. ( K. 186-2) l.',0 

Queen Charlotte's, Ilaidah Indians of— .J. G. Swan -207 

St. Croix and Virgin, flora of— 11. F. A. Eggeus 3i:? 

Shetland, Faroe, and Iceland, vegetable colonization of — C. Maktin'.s. (K. 

1858) 109 

Isle- 
Jesus, Canada East, description of oljservatory on --C. Smai.i.woou. (K. 

185(i) 91 

Royale, Michigan, ant i(nii lies of— A. C. Davis. (R, 1871) 286 

Is(diy<it;il maps.' Sec C. A. Schott. 

lM)po(hi of New England, notes on— 0. IIakgek. (P. ]87t») 3;{3 

Isothermal charts. Six Temperature. 

Italy. Sie Prize questions. 

J. 

Jack, J. Aixkx. Sculptured stone found in St. George, New Brunswick. (R. 

1881) 481,515 

Jackman F. Mounds ami earthworks of Rush County, Ind. (R. lS7i)) 345 

Jacksox, C. T. Catalogue of rocks, minerals, and ores collected on geological 

survey in Michigan. (R. 1851) 75 

Jacksox, J. B. S. Arsenic acid for protecting aiKitomical preparations from 

insects. (P.1878) 332 

Jackson County, 111.— Antiquities of-G. II. Fkexch. (R. 1881) 481,515 

stoue fort near Makanda— G. II.Jt'REXCH. (E. 1881) 481,515 

Jacksonville, Fla.— Saint John's River at, fi-hes observed in— 1). S. Jordan; S. 

E. Meek. (P. 1884) 607 

Jade. Study of the mineral called i/» by the Chineso—S. Bloxdeu (R. 1876).. 299 
Jadeite implements of the Alaskan Innuits, ou the source of the- E. W. Nelsox. 

(P. 1883) 548 

Jamaica. Public Museum of tlio Institute of, fishes received from, catalogue 

of-T. H. Beax; II. G. Dresel. (P. 1884) 007 

J AjviES, T. p. Mosses of Kerguelen Island 294 

Jamin, J. — 

Photo-chemistry. (R.18G7) 215 

Vegetation and the atnaosphere. (R. 1864) '^^^ 

Japan — 

analysis of coals from— J. A. MacDqxald 202 

catalogue of Japanese woods from— L. F. Ward. ( 1M8-1 ) 467 

collections madein, in 1832, ornithological notes on— P. L. Jour. (F. 1883).. 548 

examination of infusorial earth from— A. jM. Edwards 202 

geological researches iu— R. Pumpelly 202 

Government of, collection of cotton fibre presented by. (H81) 467 

Kin Liu Islands, Pa^iscr saturatus from— L. Stk.jxeger. (P. 1885) 6.50 

Japanese — ^ 

birds related to North American species, notes ou some— R. Ridgway. (1 . 

1883) f;;^ 

waters, alcyonid polyp from, description of-R. E. C. Stearns. (P. l-i.i)... .)48 



748 CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS 

Jarguu, Chinook — 

bibliography of^G. Gibbs 161 

dictionary of— G. GiBBS ; H.Hale 161 

vocabulary of— M. LiONNET ; B. R. Mitciiell ; W.W. Turner 68 

Jefferson, J. P. Mortality of fishes in Gulf of Mexico. (P. 1878) 332 

Jefferson, J. P. ; Porter, J. Y. ; Moore, T. Destruction of fish in vicinity of 

theTortugas. (P. 1878) 332 

Jefferson County, Ala., mounds, workshops, and stone-heaps in — William 

Gesner. (E. 18S1) 481,515 

Jevons, W. S. On a national library. (R. 1873) 275 

Jewett, C. C— 

Construction of catalogues of libraries and their publication by separate 

stereotyped titles 47 

Copyright books from 1846 to 1849. (R. 1850) 28 

General catalogue system for libraries. (R. 1850) 28 

Report on — 

catalogue system. (R. 1849) 21 

copyright system. (R. 1851) 51 

Halliwcll manuscripts. (R. 1852) 57 

plan of library. (R. 1847) H 

public libraries of the United States. (R. 1849) 21,25 

library. (R. 1848-1853) 1,21,28,51,57,67 

Jewett, C. C-, biographical notice of, by R. A. Guild. (R. 1867) 215 

Jewett, E., diagnoses of mollusca collected by— P. P. Carpenter 252 

Joglossus, description of— G. B. GOODE ; T. H. BeAN. (P. 1882) 518 

Johns's (Bishop) library, deposit of— E. Canby. (R. 1862) 150 

Johnson, S. H. Notes on mortality among fishes of Gulf of Mexico. (P. 1881) 467 

Johnson, S. W. Lectuies on agricultural chemistry. (R. 1859) 110 

Johnson, W. R. Scientific character and researches of Smithson 327 

Johnson, Vv". W. Distribution of forest trees in Montana, Idaho, aud Wash- 
ington. (R. 1870) 244 

Johnson County, Ark. Ancient rock inscriptions in — Edwajrd Green. (R. 

1*81) 481,515 

Johnson's Island, collection of fishes from, notes on — R. Smith; J. Swain. (P. 

1882) 518 

Joints, bibliography of diseases of the — W. W. Keen 300 

Jones, Dr. A. Mounds and other remaii:i8 in Independence County, Ark. (R. 

1881) 481,515 

Jones, C. C, Jr.— 

Aboriginal structures in Georgia. (R. 1877) 323,400 

A primitive store-house of the Creek Indians. (R. 1885) 645,649 

Primitive manufacture of spear and arrow points on Savannah River. (R. 

1879) 345 

Silver crosses from an Indian grave mound at Coosa wattee Old Town, Mur- 
ray County, Ga. (R. 1881) 481,515 

Jones, J. — 

Analysis of blood 82 

Chemical and physiological investigations relative to vertebrata 82 

Explorations of aboriginal remains of Tennessee 259 

Modes of burial 259 

Observations on the liver, pancreas, spleen, kidney, etc 82 

On burial caves 259 

On earthworks 259 

On mounds 259 

On relics 259 



CATALOGUE OF TUBLIUATIONS 74U 

Jones, J. M.— 

Coutribuliou.s to the tiatiuul history of tliu Boruuulas. I'art iii. Maiii- 

'"'^^^ 41>r.,565 

Kjoekkeu-uKcddiuj; in Nova Scolia. (R. IdGI'.) \ti7 

JoNi-.s, J. M. ; GOOOE, G. 15. (editors). Coiitiibutioii.s to tbo natural history of 

tlu". liernuidas 56:5, 5C4, 5G5, :.6(;, .'<;7, ".(IS, OHO, 495 

JoxES, S. The Kntchin Indians. (K. ISBG) 2l\ 365 

Jones's Station, Ohio, eanhwoiks near — J. 1'. MacLkan. (11. iSyl) -l.-^l.Tilo 

JOROAX, D. S.— 

A list, of the fishes known from the racific coast of tro2)ieal America from 

the Tropic of Cancer to Panama. (P. 18ri5) (i.-.O 

An identification of the n-;uros of the fishes in Catesby's Natural History 

of Carolina, Florida, and the Bahama Islands. (P. 1884) (;07 

Contributions to North American iehtbology: 

Pare I. lieview of Kaliuesque's memoirs :\(}7) 

Part II. Notes on Coltkhp, etc. ; synopsis Siluridw :{0(; 

Part III. Distribution of fij^hos of All.-ghany region; synopsis of family 

CaioaiomUla' 308 

description of — 

new species of Caranx {Caranx liani) from Beaufort, N. C. (P. 188U).. 425 
a neu' speciesof Hleuny (Isfslhes gUbcrti) from Santa Barbara, C'al. (P. 

ISm) 518 

a new species of lf;/l>ogii(tl]ius {tLijbognalhr'i haiji) from Mississippi. (P. 

1^84) 007 

four new >pecies of roiciUckthys in the U. S. National Museum (P. horc- 

uiis, P. quiesceiis, P. swaini, P. beainii, nn. ss.). (P. 1834) G07 

now species of North American fishes. (i\ 187U; '.VS.i 

Forgotten paper of Dr. Ayres, and its bearing on nomenclature of cyprinoul 

fishes of San Francisco. (P. 1880) 4-J5 

Iilentiiieation of die species of Cgprinida; and Cato^tomidce, described by Dr. 
Charles Girard in the Proceedings of (■3ie Academy of Natural Sciencis 

of Philadelphia for 18.')G. (P. 1885) G50 

List of fishes collected at Key West, I'la , Avith notes and descriptions {Xar- 

cine umbrosa, n. s.). (P. 1884) -. G07 

List of fishes collected in Lake Jessup and Indian River, Florida, by Mr. R. 
E. Earll, with descriptions of two new species {Ilckrandria oiamaUi, 

Elassoma cvergladci, nn. as.). (P. 1884) G07 

List of fishes collected in the vicinity of New Orleans by Dr. R. W. Shufeldt, 

U. S. Army. ' (P. 18-4) G07 

Note on — 

JElurichthys eydoitxii iun] Porichthg-s jJoroalssimns. (P. 1884') G07 

Mr. Garman's paper on "Tlio Amt-rifan Salmon and Trout." (P. 18-^31. G50 

EinuepheluH nigrilus. (P. 1885) GoO 

some Linusccan names of American fishes. (P. 1885) G.')0 

the scientific name of the yellow perch, the striped bass, and other 

American fishes. (P. 188.')) G.-.O 

Notes on — 

a collection of fishes from Pensacola, Fla., obtained by Silas Stearns, 
with descriptions of two new Bpecies{Exoc(vtu8 volador and Gnathgpops 

mystacinus). (P. 1884) C'07 

collection of fishes from CIackamas«River, Oregoa. (P. 187^) I^Ii- 

Coliidce, Etheoslomalidw, Percidw, Ccnirarchidce, Aphododerida, Doryso- 

matidce, and Cyprinidce '^^^ 

Curtiss's collection of fishes from Florida. (P. 1880) 425 

Diig^'s collection of fishes from Mexico. (P. 1879) 333 



750 CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 

Jordan, D. S.— Continued. 
Notes on — 

fishes collected at Guaymas, Mexico, by Mr. H. F. Enieric, with a de- 
scription of Gobiosoma histrio, a nevir species. (P. 1884) (J07 

Henshall's collection of fishes from East Florida. (P. 1880) 425 

Sema and Dacentrus. (P. 1880) 425 

typical specimens of American fishes in British Museum and in Museum 

d'Histoire Naturelle, Paris. (P. 1879) 333 

On the Elheosfoma variaiium of Kirtland. (P. 1885) 650 

Keport on explorations. (R. 1884) 648 

Review of Eafinesqne's memoirs on North American fishes 305 

Supplementary notes on North American fishes (^Pcecilichthys heani, Jordan= 

Boleosoma macidatum). (P. 1884) 607 

Sy nopsis of Catoifoinidw 308 

Synopsis of Siluridw of fresh waters of North America 306 

Jordan, D. S. ; Brayton, A. W. Distributionof fishes of Alleghany region of 

South Carolina, Georgia, and Tennessee 808 

Jordan, D. S. ; Eigenman, Carl H. Notes on skeletons of ii'f/teos/omaiiHo;. .. 
Jordan, D. S. ; Gilbert, C. H. — 

A review of the American Carangina. (P. 1883) 548 

A review of the species of the genus CaZamits. (P. 1884) 607 

Catalogue of the fishes collected by Mr, John Xantus at Cape San Lucas, 

with description of eight new species. (P. 1832) 518 

Description of — 

five new species of fishes from Mazatlan, Mexico. (P. 1881) 467 

new species of shark (four) from Mazatlan, Mexico. (P. 1882) 518 

now agonoid fish (Agonus vulsus) from California. (P. 1830^ 425 

new agonoid fish (i^rac/iiojJSfs ir2/os<e;'«Ks) from California. (P. 1880) ... 425 
new cyprinodant {Zygonectes inurus) from southern Illinois. (P. 1882).. 518 

new eel (Sidera castenea). (P. 1882) 518 

new embiotocoid fish (Aleona aurora) from Monterey, Cal., with notes 

on a related species. (P. 1880) 425 

new embiotocoid fish (Cymatogaskr rosaeeus) from coast of California. 

(P. 1680) 425 

new embiotocoid fish {Ditrema atr'qjes) from coast of California. (P. 

1880) : 425 

now flounder ( Hippoglos^oides exilis) from coast of California. (P. 1880'^ . 425 
netv flounder (Platysomatichthys stomiaa) from coast of California. (P. 

1880) 425 

new flounder (Pleuronichthys vcrlicalis) from California, with notes on 

other species. (P. 1830) 425 

new flounder {Xystreurys lioIe2)is) from Santa Catalina Island, Cal. (P. 

1880) 425 

new Murcenoid eel {Sidera chlevastes) from the Galapagos Islands. (P. 

1883) 548 

new ray {Flatyrhiiia triseriata) from coast of California. (P. 1880) 425 

new scorpaenoid fish {Sehastichihys maliger) from coast of California. (P. 

1880) 425 

ii(!W scorpajnoid fish (Seiastichthys proriger) from Monterey Bay, Cal. 

(1MS80) 425 

new shark (Carcharias lamieUa) from San Diego, Cal. (P. 1882) 518 

new species of Jrtedius {Artedius fcncstraUs) from Puget Sound. (P. 1382) 518 
new species of conodon {Conodoii serrifer) from BocaSoIedad,Lower Cal- 
ifornia. (P. 1882) 518 

new species of deep-water fish {Icichthys locJcingtoni) from coast of Cali- 
fornia. (P.l^cO) , 425 



CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 751 

Jordan, D. S. ; Gilbeut, C. 11.— Continued. 
Description of — 

new spociso of Goby {Gobiosoina ion) from Vancouver's Island. (P. 138*2) 518 
new species of IJemlrhampus {Ilcmirhampus rosa') froin coast (d'Califur- 

nia. (P.1380) ^-^ 

new species of Xcmiclithijs {Nemichthys avocetta) from Pnget Sound. (P. 

1880) '-'^ 

new species of notidanoid sliark (Hexanchus corinus) from PaLilic coa^t 

of United States. (P. 1880) ^-^ 

new species of Paralcpis {Paralepia coritscans) iioui Straits td" Juan di- 

Fuca. (P.IS-'O) -l-^ 

new species of Fomadonys from Mazallan. (P. 1881) ■•<J7 

new species of Ftijchochilus {Ptijchochihis harfordii) from Sacramento 

Eiver. (P. 1381) ^^l 

new species of ray {Raia rhina) from coast of California. (P. I3d0) .... 4-^) 

new species of ray {Raia stcUulala) from Monterey, Cal. (P. 1380) 4-J.') 

new species of Rhinobatus {Glaucosliama) from Mazatlan, Mexico. (P. 

1883) V ''''^ 

new species of rock cod {Sehastkhthijs serriceps) from coast of Calitornia. 

(P. 1880) ^-^ 

new species of rockfish {Schastichthjs carnatus) from coast of California. 

(P.1380) ;■■■ ^"^ 

new species of rockfisli {Schaslicltthjs chrysomelas) from ci.ast ot Califor- 
nia. (P. 1880) ----- ^'^'' 

new species of Sebastichthy^ iS( ha-^tkhthtis mhiiatun) from Monterey Lay, 

California. (P. 1830) ;-; ''-■' 

Sciceua sclera, a now spcicies of Sciwna from Mazatlan and Panama. (1 . 

, ,^,, 607 

1884) ^ 

new species of i'ranldca from Lake Michigan. (P. 1332) ol6 

new species of UroJophus ( irolophus asttrias) from Mazatlan and Panama. 

(P. 1882) ;•- :■■■ "^'^ 

Tulosurus sagilia, Querimana gyaos, Atherina ara:a, Xynchlhys rosipes, 
Voratonotus thalassmu>i, Uvbiosoma ceuthacim, Crcmnobates nox, Plato- 

pkrys nehularis, Achirus comifer, un.ss.) (P. 1334) "^O. 

new species of Xenichthys {Xenichlhys xennrus) from west coast (d Cen- 

tral America. (P. 1881) ■'VVn'w^V; 7,' 

new species of Xiphisler and Apodichthys from Monterey, Cal. (P. 1880) . A^ 

Sebaslichlhys inyslinus. (P. 1381) -- •;■-••.:■■■.•""";■■;;■■■ .!' 

seven now species of sebastoid fislics from coast of California. (P. 18-0) 42.. 
ten new species of lishes from Key West, Fla. (^Dussnmieria stolifira, 

thirty-three new species of: (ish from Mazatlan, Mexico. (P. I33l).. 4(., 

two new species of Ci.hcH {Myrophis vafer and Chhrosco,nbrus orqneia) _^^ 

from Panama. (P. 1882) ----- ■■;""::; ' 

two new species of fishes {Aprion arionunus and Opnuhum bean,) from ^ ^^ 

Pensacola, Fla. (P. 1883) V::':"' V^' "'r' 

two new species of fishes {Sebastichthys umbrosus and (UlmnchtJnjs .Ug- ^^^ 

tJTnew species 'of 7ishey(-lVceiic</.</8 rhodorus and Scylalina cerdale) 
from Neah Bay, Washington Territory. (P. 1880) . •> 



two now s'pecies 'of flounders {Parophrys Myun.s and Hippoglossoides ^^_ 
*'7rt«sodo)iWrom Puget Sound. (P. 1830) ----- 

tJI^ws;ilsof5;^.«.«c/.//-,.(6Ha3^.•c/./,/.e«^ ^^, 
rhodochloris) from Monterey Bay, Cal. (P. 18a0) .. ....-..--. -' 

tare) fro... S.ict,. Barban. Chaiinel, Caliton.ia. (P. IddO) 



752 CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 

JoKDAii, D. S. ; Gilbert, C. H. — Continued. 

generic relations of Belone exilis. (P. 1S8U) 425 

generic velaiion& of Tlatyrhina exasperata. (F. 1880) 425 

List of — 

collection of fishes made by Mr. L. Belding near Cape San Lucas, Lower 

California. (P. 1882) 518 

fishes collected at Panama by Rev. Mr. Rowell. (P. 1882) 518 

fishes collected by Capt. John M. Dow. (P. ie^82) 518 

fishes collected by John Xautas at Colima, Mexico. (P. 1882) 518 

fishes collected by Lieut. II. E. Nichols in Gulf of California and on west 
coast of Lower California, with descriptions of four new species. (P. 

1881) 467 

fishes of Pacific coast of United States, with table showing distribution 

ofspecies. (P. 1880) 425 

fishes now in the museum of Yale College, collected by Prof. Frank H. 
Bradley, at Panama, with description of three new species. (P. 1832). 518 
Note on— 

Calamus proridens, a, new siyecies of Calamus. (P. 1884) 007 

Caraiix ruher and Caranx iartholomwi. (P. 18S4) 607 

-fishes observed about Pensacola, Fla., and Galveston, Tex., with de- 
scription of new species. (P. 1882) 518 

Bala inornaia. (P. >>»S1) 467 

the genera of Petromyzontidse. (P. 1883) 548 

Notes on — 

a collection of fishes from Charleston, S. C, with descriptions of three 

new species. (P. 1882) 518 

collection of fishes from San Diego, Cal. (P. 18':;'0) 425 

collection of fishes from Utah Lake. (P. 1880) 425 

collection of fishes made by Lieut. H. E. Nichols on west coast of Mex- 
ico, with descriptions of new species. (P. 1881) 467 

fishes of Beau fort Harbor, N. C. (P. 1878) 332 

fishes of Pacific coast of United States. (P. 1881 ) 467 

the nomenclature of certain North American fishes. (P. 1883) 548 

sharks from coast of California. (P. 1880) 425 

on certain neglected names of La C<Spfede. (P. 1882) 518 

on the nomenclature of the genus Ophicldhys. (P. 1882) 518 

on the synonymy of the genus Bothus Eafinesque. (P. 1832) 518 

occurrence of CephaJoscyllium laticeps (Dum^ril), Gill, in California. 

(P. 1880) 425 

oil shark of Southern California {Galeorhinus galeus). (P. 1880) 425 

syuopsis of the fishes of North America 496, 492 

JoiMMN, D. S. ; JOUY, P. L. Check list of duplicate fishes of Pacific, distributed 

by Smithsonian Institution in 1831. (P. 1881) 467 

JoHDAN, D. S. ; Meek, Seth E. — 

List of fishes observed iu the Saint John's River at Jacksonville, Fla. (Para- 

lichthys lethosiigma, uon. sp. nov.). (P. 1884) 607 

Description of four new species of Cyprinidce iu the U. S. National Museum, 
(Cliola camura, C. urosiigma, Notrojiis melallicus, JV. alabamce, nn. ss). 

(P. 1884) 607 

Description of Zygonectes zonifer, a new species of Zygonectes, from Nashville, 

Ga. (P. 1884) 607 

List of fishes collected in Iowa and Missouri in August, 1884, with descriptions 
of three new species (^Notroi^is gilherti, Ammocrypta clara, Eiheostoma 

iowce, nn. ss.). (P. 1885) 060 

A Review of the American species of flying fishes (Exoccotus) (Fodiator, n. g. ; 

Exoccetus vincigucrrcB, nom. nov.). (P. 1885) 650 



CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 753 

Jordan, D. S. ; Swain, J. — 

A review of the Aniericau species of Epincphdns and related genera 
{Mijcteroperca fulcala, vav.,plienax, var. nov., AI. huiiaci, var., xaulhos- 

ticta, var. uov. ). (P. 1884) G07 

A review of the American species of marine Afutjilida: (P. 1884). . ()U7 

A review of tlio species of the genns Ilwmulon, {Lijthrulon, u. sg., Hacmulon 

rlmator, uom. nov. ). (P. 1884) 007 

A review of the species of LutjanuKV and Hoplopagrinw found in American 

waters. (P. 1884) 007 

Descriptions of scaroid fishes from Havana and Key West, including live new 
species {Scams virginalis, Sparisoma lorito, S. cyanolene, S. xysfrodon, 

Cri/ptotomiis heryillinus, un.ss.). (P. 1884) 007 

Description of three new species of fishes {Prionotus steanisi, PrionotHs oph- 
ryas, and Anthias vivanns), collected at Pensncola, Fla., by Mr. Silas 

Stearns. (P. 1884) 007 

List of fishes collected in the Clear Fork of the Cumberland, Whitley County, 
Ky.', with descriptions of three new species {Ilolcosotna siisanw, Pwcil- 

ichtliys saijitfa, Etlteosloma cumhcrlandkum). (P. 18815) 548 

Notes on fishes collected by David S. Jordan, at Cedar Keys, Fla. (P. 1884) 007 

Journal of exploration of western Missouri in 1854 — P. II. Hoy. (R. 18G4) 188 

JoTiruals of Board of Regents. See Regents. 

Journey to the Yukon, Russian America — W. W. KinuY. (R. 1804) 188 

JOUY, P. L.— 

Description of new species of Squalius {Sqnaliitti iiUci(r) from Utah Lake. (P. 

1881) 407 

Ornithological notes on collections made in Japan from June to December, 

1882. (P. 1883) 548 

JoUY, P. L. ; JOKDAN, D. S. Check-list of duplicates of fishes of Pacific dis- 
tributed by Smithsonian Institution in 1881. (P. 1881) 407 

Judiciary Committee, Senate, report of, on management of Smithsonian Insti- 
tution— A. P. Butler. (R.1855) 77 

Jumping seeds and galls— C. V.Riley. (P. 1882) 518 

Junco Bairdii, Belding, new species from Lower California, description of — R. 

RiDGWAY. (P. 1883) 548 

Jnpiter — 

orbit and tables of — J. N. Stockwell 232 

small planets between Mars and — Prof. Lespiault. (R. 1801) 149 

Jurassic fossils, check-list of — F. B. Meek 177 

Jussieus, the, and the natural method — M. Flouuexs. (R. 1867) 215 

K. 

Kabis, M. Introduction to study of Coptic language. (R. 1807) 215 

Kamtz ; DuFOUK, C. Scintillation of the stars. (R.1801) 149 

Kalb, George B. Sec under Swain and Kail. 

Kamtschatka, ornithological explorations in — L. Stejxeger 624 

Kane, E. K. — 

Astronomical observations in the Arctic Seas 129 

Magnetic observations in the Arctic Seas 97 

Meteorological observations in the Arctic Seas .• 104 

Physical observations in the Arctic Seas , 198 

Tidal observations in the Arctic seas 130 

Kansas — 

Butler County, account of storm in — W. Harrison. (R. 1S71) 249 

climate of— R. S. Elliott. (R. 1870) 244 

coleoptera of— J. L. Le Coxte 126 

H. Mis. 170 48 



754 CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 

Kausas — Contiuued. 

mounds near Edwardsville, Wyandotte County — E. F. Seuviss. (R. 

1881) - 515,481 

new cretaceous invertebrate fossils from — C. A. Wuite. (P. 1879) 333 

three new fishes from, description of— C. H. Gilbert. (P. 1884) 607 

Kansas City, Mo., antiquities of — W. H. R. Lykixs. (R. 1877) 323 

Karif or Carib language and people— C. H. Beuexdt. (R. L873) 275 

Karolyi, Lieut, vox; Craig, B.F. Products of combustion of gnu-cotton and 

gunpowder. (R. 1864) 168 

Keex,W.W.— 

Bibliographj^ of works on diseases 300 

Surgical complications and sequels of continued fevers. Toner lecture 

No.v 300 

Keller, Dr., abstract of report of, on settlements in Switzerland— A. Morlot, 

(R. 1863) - 187 

Kklley, O. H. Ancient town in Minnesota. (R. 1863) 187 

Kelley's Island, Ohio, climate of— G.C.HUNTIXGTOX. (R. 1866) '214 

Kexgla, L. a. Stone mounds in Hampshire County, W. Va. (R. 1883) 588, 5U3 

Arch;eological map of the District of Columbia 537 

Kennebec River, Maine, opening and closing of— R. H. Gardixer. (R. 1858). . . 109 
Kexnedy, J. P. Authority to naval officers to receive and transmit specimens 

to the Smithsonian Institution 34 

Kennicott's explorations— HuDSOx's Bay Compaxy. (R. 1863) 187 

Kext, Bexj. W. Mounds in Putnam County, Ga. (R. 1882) 535, 540 

Kentucky- 
ancient mounds in— R. Peter. (R. 1872) ; 271 

antiquities from— S. S. Lyox. (R. 1858) 109 

Barren and Allen Counties, mounds in — R. B. Evaxs. (R. 1881) 481,515 

Boyle and Mercer Counties, mounds in— W. M. Lixxey. (R. 1881) 481, 515 

Breckinridge County, age of stone and troglodytes of— R. S. Robertsox. 

(R. 1B74) 286 

Clear Fork of Cumberland River, fishes collected in, list of^D. S. Joudax ; 

C. H. GtLBEUT. (P. 1883) 548 

Hancock County, antiquities of— J. Friel. (R. 1877) 323 

Lexington, ancient mound near — R.Peter. (R. 1871) 249 

Union County, exploration of ancient mounds in — S. S. Lyox. (R. 1870). .. 244 

Kexwortiiy, Charles J. Ancient canals in Florida. (R. 1881) 481,515 

Kepler, his life and works, by M. Bertiiraxd. (R. 1869) 228 

Kerguelen Island, contributions to natural history of— 

I. Ornithology— J. H. Kidder ; E. Coues 293 

II. Oology, botany, etc.— J. H. Kidder and others 294 

Kershncr collection from Kerguelen Island 294 

Kew Observatory — 

apparatus and processes employed in verification of barometers at — J. 

Welsh. (R. 1859) 110 

experiments on aneroid barometers made at — B. Stewart. (R. 1868) 224 

Key West, Fla.— 

fishes collected at, list of, with note and descriptions — D. S. Jordax. (P. 

1884) 607 

pipe-fishes of, notes on— J. Swaix ; S. E. Meek. (P. 1884) 607 

scaroid fishes from, description of— D. J. Jordax; J. Swaix. (P. 1884) 607 

ten new species of fishes from, description of^D. S. Jordax ; C. H. Gilbert. 

(P. 1884) -. 607 

Kidder, J. H. — 

Experiments on animal heat of lishcK. (P. 1879) 333 

Mammals of Kerguelen Island 294 



CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 755 

Kii)i)Kl{, J. li., tiiui others. Nutiinil history of Koryuclen Lshiiid 294 

KiDDKK, J. II. ; CouES, E. Birds of Kcrguelcu Island 293 

Kidney, observiitioiis ou the — J. JoNES ,S2 

Kinetic theories of gravitatiou— W. B. Taylok. (R. 187G) 29<),395 

Kino, C. B. Catalogueof engravings presented to Smithsonian. (IJ. 18(J1) 14D 

KiN'c;, W. M. Account of Indian burial in California. (K. 1871) -286 

KiPi', J. Accuracy of Catlin's account of Mandan ceremonies. (R. ls7:i) ;>71 

KiKKV, W. W. Jouruej' to the Yukon, Russian America. (R. 18GJ) 188 

KiKKWooD, D. Asteroids between Mars and Jupiter. (R. 1876) 299 

Kitchen- midden — 

in Costa Rica, note on shells from — W. H. Dall. (P. 1878) 332 

See Kjwkken-mroddiuga. 
KjfBkken-moDddings — 

in Nova Scotia— J. M. Joxks. (R. 18G3) 187 

on northwest coast of America — P. Sciiumaciieu. (R. 1373 ; R. 1874). ..275,286 
Klamath Lake dialect — 

details of Indian conjurer's practice in — A S. Gatschet. (E. 1879-'80) 470 

"The Relapse" in— A. S. Gatschet, (E. 1879-'80) : 476 

Kletzixsky, Professor. Nitrogen bodies of modern chemistry. (R. lf^72) 271 

Klikitat River, Washington Territory, aboriginal works on— T. M. Wihtcombe. 

(R.1881) 481,515 

KxAPP, G. Earthworks on Arkansas River. (R. 1877) 323 

Knight, E. H. Study of savage weapons at Centennial Exhibition. (R. 

1879) 345,415 

Knight, G. H. New system of weights and measures. (R. 1867) 215 

Knight. R. T. ; Henry, J. Connection of gales of wind and appearance of 

aurora. (R. 1871) '. 249 

KxowLTOX, Eraxk H. List of plants collected by Mr. Charles L. McKay, at 

Nushagak, Alaska, in 1881, for the U. S. National Museum. (P. 1885). G50 

Knox County, 111., antiquities of — M. A. McCeelland. (R. 1881) 481,515 

KoHi-, J. G. On collection of charts and maps of America. (R. 185G) 91 

KoRXHUBER, G. A. Alternate generation and parthenogenesis in the animal 

kingdom. (R. 1871) 249 

Krox, E. J. Antiquities of Stanley and Montgomery Counties, N. C. (R. 1874). 286 

Krox, H. J. Lightning discharges. (R. 18G7) 215 

KUMLIEX, L.— 

Ethnology, mammals, and birds of Arctic America 342 

Ilowgate Polar Expedition, natural history of Arctic America 342 

Report on explorations iu Greenland. (R. 1878) 341 

KuxHARDT AND CoMPAXY. Free freight to Smithsonian Institution between 

United States and Germany. (R. 18G1) 149 

Kushkushkee, Indian village near Newcastle, Pa., account of — E. M. McCux- 

NELL. (R. 1871) 249 

Kutchiu Indians — S. Jones. (R. 18GG) 214,305 

L. 

Labels for collections, etc 1G4 

Labichthys — 

carinatus, new genus and species of, diagnosis of — T. Gill ; J. A. Rydei:. 

(P. 1883) 548 

elongatus, new species of, diagnosis of — T. Giee; J. A. Ry'Der. (P. 1883).. 548 

Laboulay'e, E. Acknowledgment for books on education. (R. 1SG7) 215 

Labrador — 

birds of, list of the— L. M. Turner. (R. 1885) 050 

Crustacea from— S. I. Smith. (P. 1S83) 548 



756 CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 

Labrador— Con tin iicd . 

expedition to, by W. A. Stearns, in 18S2, catalogue of mollnsca and echino- 

dcrmata from— K. J. Bush. (P. 1883) 548 

marine crustacea of, review of— S. I. Smith. (P. 1883) 548 

natural history of, notes on the— W. A. Stearxs. (P. 1883) 548 

La Cepedc, uncertain neglected names of— D. S. Johdax ; C. 11. GiLnEirr. (P. 

1882) 518 

Lacunella rcllcxa, new species, from the Commander Islands, report on — W. H. 

Daix, (P. 1884) G07 

Lacnstriau — 

cities of Switzerland -F. Tuoyon. (R. 1861) 140 

constructions or palalittes of the lake of Neuchatel — E. Desor. (R. 

1865) ". 209,360 

habitations of Switzerland— F. Troyox. (R. 1861) 149 

settlements in Switzerland, abstract of Dr. Keller's report on — A. Morlot. 

(R. 1863) 187 

Lagopus nintus Leach and its allies— L. M. Turner. (P. 1882) 518 

La Have Banks, occurrence of Lijcodcs rahlii on — G. B. Goode ; T. H. Beax. (P. 

1879) 333 

Lake Jcssup and Indian River, Florida, lishcs collected in, by R. E. Earle, list 

of— D. S. JoRDAX. (P. 1884) 007 

Lake Michigan, new species of Uranidea from. Description of— D. S. Jordax ; 

C. H. Gilbert. (P. 1882) 518 

Lake Neuchatel, lacustrian constructions of — E. Desor. • (R. 1865) 209 

Lake Pepin, antiquities ou banks of— L. C. EsTES. (R.1S66) 214 

Lake Superior, ancient mining on shores of — C. Whittlesey 155 

Lake Superior copper region, circular relative to ancient mining in — .J. IIexkv. 

(R. 1861) 149 

Lake Superior, Isle Royale, antiquities of— A. C. Davis. (R.18T4) 286 

Lake Winnipeg, notes on egging expedition to — D. (4rxx. (R. 1867) 215 

Lakes — 

dates of opening and closing of— F. B. IIouoii 182 

North American, tluctuations of level in — C. Whittlesey •. 119 

Norwegian, statistics relative to — O. E. Dreutzer. ( R. 1866) 214 

Lalaude observations, 1795— S. C. W^\lker 5 

Lamarck, J. B. Distinction between tornadoes and tempests. (R. 1871) 249 

Lamellaria diegoiiusis, Dall, notes ou—C. R. Orcutt. (P. 188.'i) 050 

Lamont, J. The solar eclipse of July 18, 1860. (R. 1864) 188 

Land — 

and fresh-water shells. Sec Shells. 

cessions of, by Indian tribes to United States— C. C. Royce. (E. 1879-'80). 476 

gradual approach of sea upon— S. P. Maycerry. (R. 1867) 215 

Language — 

Carib or Karif— C. H. Berexdt. (R. 1873) 275 

Coptic, introduction to the study of— M. Karis. (R. 18G7) 215 

Dakota, grammar and dictionary of— S. R. RiGGS 40 

dominant, for science— A. De Caxdolle ; J. E. Gray. (R. 1874) 2S6 

evolution of— J. W. Powell. (E. 1879-'80) 470 

of aboriginal Indians of America— G. Gibrs. (R. 1870) 244 

of Dakota or Sioux Indians— F. L. O. RoEiiRiG. (R. 1871) 249, 378 

of Navajos said to resemble the Welsh— S. Y. McMasters. (R. 1865) 209 

phonetic, vocal sounds of L. Bridgman compared with elements of— F. Lieber 12 
sign, among North American Indians compared with that among other peoples 

and deaf-mutes- G. Mallery. (E. 1879-'80) 476 

trade, of Oregon , dictionary of — G. Gibbs 161 



CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 757 

LaugiKige — Coiitiuued. 

trade, of Oregon, vocabulary of — B. R. Mitchell ; W. W. Tuiinhr 68 

Yoriiba, of Africa, grainuiar aud dictionary of — T. J. Bowkx 98 

Languages, Indian — 

G. Flaciiexkckek. ( K. 18(J2) ir>0 

G. GiBBS. (R. 18G5; 209 

mctliod of recording— J. O. Dousky; A. S. (Jatciiet; S. R. Ruios. (E. 

1879-'80) 47(5 

La Talma, Costa Rica, birds from — C. C. Nuttixg. ( V. ISS'-i) r>18 

Lai'IIam, I. A. Antiiiuities of Wisconsin 70 

Lapidary, aboriginal, stock-in-trado of — C.Rau. (R. If^TT) P)'2:], 440, 402 

La Place, eulogy on, by F. Araco. (R. 1874) 28() 

Laramie grouii, new molluscau forms from the — C. A. White. (P. 1882) r)I8 

La Rive. See De la Rive. 

Lartet, E., scientific labors of, by F. Fisher. (R. 1872) 271 

Larynx, bibliograpliy of diseases of the — W. W. Kerx :?00 

La Salle County, 111. — 

Antiquities of Fox River Valley — W. Hector Gale. (R. 1881) 481, .')ir) 

mounds in— J. D. Moody. (R. 1881) 481, f)!.'') 

Latiloid genera, note on— T. Gill. (P. 1881) 4r)7 

Latimer collection of antiquities from Porto Rico — O. T. Masox. (R. 187G). .299, 397 
Latimer, G. A. — 

Earthquakes in St. Thomas. (R. 18G7) 215 

Hurricane at Tortola, St. Thomas, and Porto Rico. (R. 18()7) 215 

Meteorology of Porto Rico. (R. 1871) 249 

Latin vocabulai'y with comi>arative words in English, Spanish, and French 170 

Latitudes and longitudes, Arctic — E. K. Kaxk 129 

Laugel,A. The sun, its chemical analysis. (R. 18G1) 149 

Lausanne, report on etliuological collections of Museum at — F. Troyox. (R. 

18lil) 149 

Lautenbach, B. F, Effect of irritation of a polarized nerve. (R. L.S78) oil, 411 

Law.A.E. Antiquities of Blount County, Teun. (R. 1874) 28(5 

Law of — 

deposit of liood-tide — C. H. Davis 33 

variation of temperature in asceiuling currents of air— J. Haxx. (R. 

1877) :52:i,398 

variation of temperature in ascending moist currents — L. SoiixcKi:. (h*. 

1877) 3:J:i,398 

Lawrexce, G. N. — 

Birds of southwestern Mexico collected by F. E. Sumichrast 295 

Catalogue of Ober's collection of birds of — 

Antigua and Barbuda, with his notes. ( P. 1878) 332 

Dominica, with his notes and observations. (P. 1878) 332 

Grenada, including others seen, but not obtained. (P. 1S78) 332 

Guadeloupe. (P. 1878) - 332 

Lesser Antilles, with table showing distribution. (P. 1878).... 332 

Martinique. (P. 1878) " 332 

St. Vincent, with his notes. (P. 1878) 332 

Description of new — 

species of birds of family Turdkhv from Dominica, West Indies. (P. 

1880) 425 

species of Icterus from West Indies. (P. 1880) 425 

species of parrot, of genus Chrysotis, from Dominica. (P. 1880) 425 

subspecies of Z,oxi(/tZ/rt from West Indies. (P. 1881) - 467 



758 CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 

Lawkexce, G. N. — Continued. 

List of a few species of birds new to tlie fauna of Guadeloupe, West Indies, 
with a description of a new species of Ceryle (Cer^/^e stictijyennis, n. s.). 

(P. 1885) 650 

Laws of atmospheric circulation over the earth — J. H. Coffix 2G8 

Lea, Isaac. Bibliography of — N. P. Scudder 570 

Lea, I. Check-list of the shells of North America 128 

Leach, M. T. — 

Ancient forts in Ogemaw County, Mich. (R. 1884) 020, G'23 

Ancient mounds in Clinton County, Mich. (R. 1884)' 020, G23 

Leanira robusta, new species, description of — A. E. Vekrii.l. (P. 18S5) 050 

Le Bahox, J. Fraxcis — 

Gold, silver, and other ornaments found in Florida. (R. 1882) 535,540 

Prehistoric remains in Florida. (R. 1882) 535, 540 

Le CoxTE, JoHX. Constants of nature. (R. 1878) 341 

Le Coxte, J. L. — 

Classification of coleoptera of North America. Parts i, ii 136, 265 

Coleoptera of Kansas and eastern New Mexico 126 

Instructions for collecting coleoptera. (R. 1858) 1 0'J 

List of coleoptera of North America. Part i 140 

New species of North America coleoptera. Parts i, ii 167, 264 

Revision of Melsheimcr's catalogue of coleoptera 62 

Le Coxte, J. L. ; Horx", G. H. Classification of the coleoptera of North Amer- 
ica = 505, 507 

Le Coxte, Joseph. Lecture on coal. (R. 1857) 107 

Lecture on Ameiican fire-alarm telegraph — W. F. Chaxxing. (R. 1854) 75 

Lectures on — 

agricultural chemistry— S. W. JoHXSOX. (R. 1859) 110 

Arctic explorations — I. I. Hayes. (R. 1801) 149 

astronomy — A. Caswell. (R. 1858) 109 

bridges— F. Rogers. (R. 1801) •.. 149 

bridges and roads — F. Rogers. (R. 1800) 147 

the camel— G. P. Marsh. (R. 1854) 75 

cancerous tumors. Toner lecture No. i — J. J. Woodward 266 

coal— J. Le Coxte. (R. 1857) 107 

dual characterof the brain. TouerlectureNo.il — C. E. Bkowx — Skquard. 291 

electro-physiology — C. Matteucci. (R. 18G5) 209 

insect instincts and transformations — J. G. Morris. (R. 1855) 77 

marine algaj — W. H. Harvey. (R. 1855) 77 

Mental overwork. Toner lecture No. ix — C. K. Mills 594 

meteoric stones — J. L. Smith. (R. 1855) 77 

meteorology — R. Russell, with notes by J. Hexry. (R. 1854) 75 

mollusca, or shell-fish and their allies— P. P. Carpexter. (R. 18G0) .. .147, 152 
natural history as applied to farming and gardening — J. G. Morris, (R. 

1855) 77 

nature and cure of bites of serpents and wounds of poisoned arrows — D. 

Braixard. (R. 1854) 75 

nature of reparatory inflammation in arteries after ligature, etc. Toner 

lecture No. vii — E. O. Shakespeare 321 

oxygen and its combinations — G. I. Chace. (R. 1855) 77 

physical ethnology — D. AViLSOX. (R. 1862) 150 

planetary disturbances — E. S. Sxell. (R. 1855) 77 

principles of linguistic science— W. D. Whitxey. (R. 13G3) 187, 352 

relations of time and space— S. Alexaxder. (R. 18G1) 149 

sanitary drainage of Washington. Toner lecture No. viii — G. E. Warixg, 

jr 505, 349 



CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 759 

Lectures ou — Coutiuued. 

shells of Culf of California— P. P. CAurF.XTER. (K. ItJiVJ) 110 

strain aud overactiou of the heart. Toner lecture No. iii — J. M. Da Costa 279 

study of high auticiuity in Europe— A. Moklot. (R. 1H62; K. 18G4) l.")0, 188 

study of nature and mechanism of fever. Toner lecture No. iv — H. C. 

Wood 282 

surgical complications and sequels offerers. Toner lecture No.v — W. W. 

Keex 300 

Switzerland- A. D. Baciie. (R. 1870) 244 

syllabus of a course of, on physics — J. Hexry. (R. 1856) 91 

undulatory theory of light — F. A. P. Bakxard. (R. 18G2) 150 

the Union— H. Reed. (R. 1854; 75 

vastness of visible creation — S. Alexander. (R. 1S57) 107 

zone of small planets between Mars and Jupiter — E. LooMis. (R. 1854) ... 75 

Lectures, Toxer — 

No. I, Cancerous tumors — Woodward 266 

II. Dual character of braiu — Browx-S^quard 291 

III. Overactiou of heart — Da Costa 279 

IV. Study of fever — Wood 282 

V. Continued fevers — Keen 300 

VI. Subcutaneous surgery — Adams , 302 

VII. Reparatory inllammation — Shakespeare 321 

VIII. Sanitary drainage of Washington — W.a.rixg 349, 505 

IX. Mental overwork — Mills 594 

Lee, Dr. Progress of astronomical photography. (R. 1861) 149 

Lee, J. C.Y. Ancient ruin in Arizona. (R. 1872) 271 

Lefkoy, J. H. Contributions to the natural history of the Bermudas. Part ii. 

Botany 4'J5, 564 

Legacy. See Bequest. 

Legeudre, A.M., memoir of, by E.De Beaumont. (R. 1SC7) 215 

Leidy, J. — 

Ancient fauna of Nebraska 58 

Cretaceous reptiles of the United States 192 

Extinct sloth tribe of North America 72 

Extinct species of American ox 41 

Fauna and flora within living animals 44 

On parasites 44 

Report on fossils from Nebraska. (R. 1851) 51 

Review of cretaceous reptiles of United States. (R. 1864) 188 

Leidy, J. ; Tryon, G. W. Report on shells presented to Academy of Natural 

Sciences. (R. 1865) 209 

Leipsic Museum of Ethnology — A. Schott ; O. T. Mason. (R. 1873) 275 

Lemstrom, S. ; De La Rive, A. A. Electricity of the atmosphere aud the aurora 

borealis. (R. 1874) 28G 

Lending of type specimens— S. F. Baird. (P. 1886) 637 

Lens, account of Priestley's— ,J. Henry. (R. 18.59) 110 

Leodice benedicti, new species, description of — A. E. Verrill. (P. 188')) 650 

Lepidopsetta isolepis, new flat fish, found in markets of San Francisco, note 

on— W. N. LOCKINGTON. (P.1880) 425 

Lepidoptera — 

appendix to Morris' synopsis of— B. Clemens 133 

described, of North America, catalogue of— J. G. MoitKis 118 

described, of North America, synopsis of. Part i— J. G. Mdrris 133 

diurnal, of Arctic America— W. H. Edvv^ards 342 

instructions for collecting— B. Clemens. (R. 1853) 109 



760 catalogup: of publications. 

Lcpidoptera — Continued. 

introduction to Jlorriii's synopsis of — V. IIeixemann 133 

method of preserving — T. R. Pealk. (R. 1oG:>) 187 

nocturnal, of Arctic America— S. H. Scuddeu 342 

notes to Morris's synopsis of — W. H. Edwauds 133 

Lepraea abyssicola, new species, description of— A. E. Vkurill. (P. 1885) G50 

Lepsius, R. Presentation of boolis on Egypt. (R. IdGO) 147 

Leptocardians, note on the — T. Gilt.. (P. 1882) IMS 

Leptocardii, arrangement of families of — T. Gill 2-17 

Leptophidium — 

cervinum, description of— G.B. Goode; T.H.Beax. (P. 1885) 050 

marraoratuui, descriptiou of— G. B. Goode ; T. H. Bean. (P. 1885) 650 

Lesley, J. P. On the classification of books. (R.1862) 150 

Lesi'Iault, Professor. Small planets between Mars and Jupiter. (R. 1861)... 149 
Lesser Antilles, catalogue of Ober's collection of birds of — G.N.Lawrence. 

(P. 1878) 332 

new honey-creepers from, description of--R. Ridgway. (P. 188.') G.50 

Lesquep.eux, L. Contribution to the miocene flora of Alaska. (P. 1882) 518 

Letharchus, descriptiou of— G. B. Goode ; T. H. Bean. (P. 1882) 518 

Letter — 

by M. Hoek in reference to meteoric shower of November 13, 18()7 217 

from Robert Hare relative to gift of api^aratus '.\2D, I 

from Joseph Henry to Secretary Treasury on payment of interest in coin. 

(R. 1865) 209 

from Richard Rush relative to Smithson. (R. 1853) 67,328 

Lettermax, J. Sketch of the Navajo Indians. (R. 1855) 77 

Letters — 

of introduction. (R. 1865) 209 

on work of the Museum— B. PiiiLLirs. (P. 1881) 454, 467 

relative to programme of organization of Smithsonian Institution 328 

relative to Smithson's bequest 328 

Leuconia hemphillii, new species of, from Florida — W. H. Dall. (P. 188:'.) .548 

Leuryunis, Lockington, identity of, Lycodopsis, Collet— T. Gill. (P. 1880) 425 

Level, fluctuations of, in North American lakes — C. Whittlesey 119 

Lewis, J. — 

Instructions for collecting land and fresh-water shells. ( R. 1866) 214, 363 

Letter of, to G. W.Tryon, jr., on shells 253 

Lewis ; Quale. Account of cryolite of Greenland. (R. 1866) 214 

Lexington, Ky., ancient mound near — R.Peter. (R. 1871) 249 

Libbey, William, jr. (editor), Guyot's meteorological and physical tables... 522, 538 

Liberia, mixed races in— E. D. Blyden. (R. 1870) 24 1 

Liberia College, facts respecting—A. Cru.mmell. (R. 18i)l) 149 

Libraries — 

circular respecting new report on— J. Henry. (R. 1854) 75 

construction of catalogues of, and their publication by means of separate 

stereotyped titles— C. C. Jewett 47 

general catalogue system for— C. C. Jewett. (R. 1850) 28 

general catalogue system for, report of Comuiission on. ( K. 18.')(i ) 28 

public, in United States and British Provinces, list of— W. J. Riiees.. .116, 238 

public, of United States, notices of— C. C. Jewett. (R. 1849) 21.25 

report of Commission on stereotype catalogue of 47 

rules for cataloguing — C. C. Jewett -■- 47 

Library — 

Beaufort, deposit of— E.M. Stanton. (R. 18(;2) 150 

Bishop Johns's, deposit of— E. Canby. (R.1862). 150 



CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 701 

Library — Continned . 

Imperial, of Vienna, books ])rosonte(l by. (K. 18(55) 209 

of Bureau of Etbuology, catalogue of linguistic manuscripts in — J. C. Pil- 
ling. (E. 187D-S0) : 470 

of Indian linguistics, account of— J. G. Shea. (K. 1861) 149 

of National Museum, circular asking contributions to. (P. 1H8I) 467, 458 

on a national— W. S. Jk v^oxs. (R. 1873) '27.') 

Library of Congress — 

act of Congress to transfer Sniitlisonian library to. (R. 1865) '209, :5"28 

catalogue of publications of societies and of periodical works belonging to 

tlie Smithsonian Institution deposited in 179 

meteorological articles received by the Smithsonian Institution and deposited 

in. (R.1871; R. 1873) 249,275 

Library of Smithsonian Institution — 

act of Congress to transfer, to Library of Co)igrcss. ( R. 1865) 209, 328 

additions to. See each annual report. 

and copyright system— C. C. Jewett. (R. 1851) 51 

and Ilalliwell manuscripts, report on — C. C. Jewett. (R. 18.52) 57 

catalogue of publications of societies and other periodical works in 117, 179 

donations to, from foreign institutions. (R. 1864) 188 

publications of learned societies and periodicals in. Parts i,ii 73, 85 

report on— C. C. Jewett. (R. 1848, 1849,1853) 21. (w, I 

report on plan of— C. C. Jewett. (R. 1847) H 

statistics of, 1846-1877 329 

Lichens — 

collected by T. H. Bean in Alaska, list of, and notes upon — J. T. RoriinocK, 

(P. 1884) G07 

of Arctic America— E.TucivEKMAX 342 

of Kerguelen Island- E. Tuckerm ax 294 

Licking County, Ohio. Flint Ridge, sketch of— C. M. Smith. (R. 1884) 620,623 

LiEiiEK, F. Vocal sounds of Laura Bridgmau compared with elements of pho- 
netic language 12 

LiEiJiG, J. vox. Induction and deduction. (R. 1870) 244 

Life — Sec Eulogy, Memoirs. 

and character of Joseph Henry— J. C.Wellixg 35(;, 338 

and labors of Henry Gustavus Magnus. (R. 1870) 244 

and scientific labors of Stefano Marianini— C. Matteucci. (R. 1869) 228 

and works of Michael Faraday— A. A. De La Rive. (R. 1867) 215 

and works of Kepler — M. Beijtiiraxd. (R. 1889) 228 

colors of Cremnohates integripinnis — R. Smith. (P. 1883) 548 

of George Catlin— J. Hexky. (R. 1872) 271 

of Prof. Chester Dewey— M. B. AxDEKSOX. (R. 1870) 244 

Light— 

and heat of sun, relative intensity of — L. W. Meech. (R. 185C) 91, 83 

polar, or aurora borealis, its phenomena and laws — E. LooMis. (R. 1865) .. 209 

undulatory theory of, lectures on — F. A. P. Barxakd. (R. 1862) 150 

velocity of, essay on — C. Delaujtay. (R. 1864) 188, 354 

Light-House Board — 

investigations by, relative to illuminating materials — J. Hexry. (R. 

1880) 442,389 

proceedings of, on death of J. Henry 356 

researches by, in sound— J. Henry. (R. 1878) 341,406 

Lighting, architecture iu relation to — D. B. Reid. (R. 1856) 91 

Lightning — 

and thunder, observations on — S. Masterman. (R. 1855) 77 



762 CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 

Lighbfcning— Continued. 

discharges, accounts of— G. W. Dodc-k and others. (R. 1867) 215 

effect of— S. L. HiLLiER. (R. 1866) '214 

Lightning-rods, directions for constructing — J. Henhy 237 

Lille, Imperial Society of Science, Agriculture, and Arts of. Prize questions. 

(R. 1865) 209 

LiLLJKiiOHG, W. Outline of systematic review of the class! dcation of birds. (R. 

1865) 209,364 

Limitations to use of some anthropological data — J. \V. Powell. (E. 1879-80). 476 

Limpets — 

from deep waters off eastern coast of United States— W. H. Dall. (P. 1881). 467 

of Alaska and Arctic region, report on— W. H. Dall. (P. 1878) 3:?2 

Lindhoimer's botanical exploration in New Mexico and California, account of^ 

A.GiJAY. (R. 1849) 21 

Linguistic — 

manuscripts in library of Bureau of Ethnology, catalogue of— J. C. Pilling. 

(E. 1879-80) 476 

science, lectures on priciples of— W. D. WuiTXKy. (R. 1863) 187,352 

Linguistics, Indian — 

account of library cf-J. G. Siika. (R. 1861 ) 149 

recommendation of Shea's — G. Gibus and others. (R. 1861) 149 

Linna;an — 

collection, American fishes in— G.B.Goode; T. II. Bean. (P. 1885) 650 

names of American fishes, note on — D. S. Jordan. (P. 1885) 650 

LiNNEY, W. M. Mounds in Boyle and Mercer Counties, Ky. (R. 1831) 481,515 

LiONXET,M. Vocabulary of the Chinook jargon •. 68 

Liparisranula, now species of, obtained by U. S. Fish Commission off Halifax, 

Nova Scotia— G. B. Goode ; T. H. Bean. (P. 1879) 333 

Liquids- 
expansion of, by heat— F. W. Clarke 289 

specific heats of— F. W. Clarke 276 

Lisboa, M. M., books on Brazil, presented by. (R. 1865) 209 

List of — 

additions to Museum. Sec each annual report. 

addrcssesof foreign institutions, 1862-1865. (R. 1865) 209 

alga) of Rhode Island— S. T. Olney 241 

American correspondents 69 

American libraries and public institutions — W. J. Ruees 238 

anthropological publications of Charles Rau. (P. 1881) 467 

apparatus available for scientific research. (R. 1878) 341 

articles deposited by Smithsonian Institution in Corcoran Gallery of Art. 

(R. 1874) 286 

astronomical observatories— G. H. Boeiimer. (R. 1885) 649,536 

birds and mammalia of Missouri River — E. Harris. (R. 1850) 28 

birds of central California, partial— L. Beldin(t. (P. 1878) 332 

birds of District of Columbia— E. CoUES ; S.S.Prentiss. (R. 1861) 149 

casts of heads of Indian boys and girls at Htrmpton, Va.— R. H. Pratt. (P. 

1879) 333 

coleoptera of North America. Part i— J. L. Le Conte 140 

collections presented by foreign Centennial Commissioners. (R. 1876) 299 

described birds of Mexico, Central America, and West Indies not in Smith- 
sonian Institution 185 

described species of humming-birds — D. G. Elliot 334 

desiderata among North American birds— R. Ridgway. (P. 1881) 467 

domestic institutions iu correspondence with Smithsonian Institution .. .69,238 



CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 763 

List of — Coutinucd. 

duplicates of lislies of ruciiic coast distributed by Smithsonian lustitutioa 

inl88I— D. S.JouDAX; P.L.Jouy. (P.1881) 467 

European fislics in National Museum— T. II. Bkax. (IM879) 333 

expeditious from wliich specimens in Museum have been derived — S. F. 

Baird. (K.18G7) 215 

fishes collected by Lieut. H. E. Nichols in Gulf of California— D. S. .Jordan ; 

C.H.Gilbert. (P.1881) 407 

fisliesof Pacific coast of United States— D. S. Jordan ; C. II Gilrert. (P. 

1880) 42') 

foreign agents of Smithsonian Institution in 187G. {Sec also annual reports.) 
foreign correspondents — 

of Smithsonian Institution 64,154,225,243,309,469 

January, 1882 505,469 

July, 1885, (349,635 

additions and corrections to the 505, 490 

of Smithsonian Institution, systematic index to 257 

generic names of animals — S. II. Scudder 470 

Indian vocabularies received from the Wheeler Expedition. (11.1874) 2-^G 

institutions in the United States receiving publications of the Smithsonian 

Institution 512 

institutions, libraries, colleges, and other establishments in correspondence 

with the Smithsonian Institution — W. J. Rhees 238 

invertebrate fossils of North America — 

cretaceous and j urassic — F. B. Meek 177 

eocene and oligocene — T. A. Conrad 200 

miocene — F. B. Meek 183 

marine invertebrata of New England distributed by United States Fish 

Commission — A.E.Verrill; R. liAxnBUN. (P.1879) 3:5:> 

marine invertebrates, mainly from New England, distributed by U.S. Na- 
tional Museum— R. Ratubux. (P. 1881) 65, 4(;7, 471 

meteorological material contributed to Smithsonian Institution. (R. 18G0- 

1865, 18G7-1871) 147, 149, 1.50, 187, 188, 209, 215, 224, 228, 244, 249 

meteorological .stations and observers. (R. 1849, 1853-1873). ..21,67,75,77,91, 

107, 109, 110, 147, 149, 150, 187, 188, 209, 214, 215, 224, 223, 244, 249, 271, 275, 373 

minerals in U. S. National Museum— F. M. Endlich. (R. 1873 ; P. 1880) . .275, 425 

North American hatrachia and reptilia — E. D. Cope 292 

North American species of myriapods of family Lijsiopetalidw — J. A. Ryder. 

(P. 1880) 425 

official publications of the United States Government between 18G8 and 

1881— G. n. Boehmer 447 

papers presented to Royal Society by James Smithson. (R. 18.53) 67,3:'.0 

periodicals received by the Institution. (R. 1880) Q, 436, 442 

photograiiliic portraits of North American Indians in Smithsonian Institu- 
tion 216 

plants of the Upper Missouri— T. C. Porter. (R. 1850) 28 

plants of Washington and vicinity — L.F.Ward 460 

principal literary and scientific institutions in United States, 1879 335 

public libraries, institutions, and societies in United States and 15ritisli 

Provinces of North America — W. J. Rhees 116 

publications of the — 

Smithsonian Institution. (R. 18G8j .. ..74,203,224,226,245,278,290, 301, 344, 

437, 478 

Smithsonian Institution, December, 1881 .506 437 

Smithsonian Institution 480 

U. S. National Museum. (P.1881) 467,474 



764 CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 

List of — Continued. 

Regents, officers, and assistants of the Smithsonian Institution and U. S. 

National Museum. {See also each annual report ) 466, 290 

scientific papers of A. D. Bache— B. A. Gould. (R. 1870) 244, 320, 379 

shells of exploring expedition 193 

shells of North America — I.Lea; P. P. Carpenter; W. Stimpsox ; W, G. 

BiNXET ; T. Prime 128 

Smithsonian publications, check, March, 1884 571 

Smithsonian publications, price, March, 1884 573 

1886. (R,1885) 049,627 

species of Middle and South American birds not in U. S. National Museum — 

R. RiDGWAY. (P.1881) 467 

substances derived from animal kingdom — G. B. Goode 297 

Literary exchanges. See Exchanges. 

Literary study of jade— S. Blondel. (R. 1876) 299 

Literature — 

and systematic relations of the saccopharyngo'ul fishes — T. Gill ; J. A. Ry- 
der. (P. 1884) 007 

of Uranium, index to— H. C. Bolton. (R. 1885) 649,628 

Lithology — 

department of, National Museum, report of curator for 1881. (R. 1884, ii).. (i48 
and physical geology, department of, National Museum, for 1885, report on — 

G. P. Merrill. (R. 1885, ii) G54 

mineralogy and, of the District of Columbia, notes on— G. P. Merrill. (P. 

1885) 650 

Littoral marine fauna of Provincetown, Mass. — R. Rathbun. (P. 1880) 425 

Liu-kiu Islands, Japan, passer sataratus from — L. Stejneger. (P. 1885) 650 

Liver, observatiozis on the — J. Jones -. 82 

LivERMORE, G. Report on Jewett's general stereotype catalogue of public 

libraries 47 

Living animals, flora and fauna -within — J. Leidy 44 

Lloyd, North German, free freight between Germany and the United States. (R. 

1858) 109 

Lloyd, W. A.— 

Exchange of specimens. (R. 1867) 215 

Sparrows sent to the United States. (R. 1867) 215 

Lobotid®, relations of the family— T. Gill. (P. 1882) 518 

Locke, J, — 

Catalogue of rocks, minerals, ores, and fossils. (R. 18.54) 75 

Observations on terrestrial magne«!;ism 35 

Lockett, S. H. Mounds in Louisiana. (R.1872) 271 

LOCKINGTON, W. N.— 
Description of new — 

cbiroid fish {Myriolepis sonifer) from Monterey Bay, Cal. (P. 1880) 425 

fish from Alaska ( Uranidea microstoyna). (P. 1880) 425 

genus and some new species of California fishes {Icosteus cenigmaticus and 

Osmerus attenuatus). (P. 1880) 425 

genus and species of CoUidce. (P. 1881) 467 

sparoid fish {Sparus hradiijsomus) from Lower California. (P. 1880) 425 

species of Agonidw {Bracliyopsis verrucostis) from coast of California. 

(P. 1880) 425 

species of Prionotus (Prionotus stcphanopliyrs) from coast of California. 

« P. 1880) 425 

genera and species of fisbes from coast of California. (P. 1879) 333 



CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS 765 

LOCKINGTON, W. N.— Couiiiiued. 

Note on uew Hat fish {LepldopscHa i>iolepis) I'ouiul in niiirkets of San Fran- 
cisco. (P. 1880) 4->5 

Remarks on siiecies of genns Chints found in San Francisco market. (P. 

1880) 4:>5 

Review of the Pleuroncctidw of San Francisco. (P. 1879; 333 

Locusts and grasshoppers of America — A. S. Taylok. (R. 1853) 101) 

LOKW, H. — 

Monographs of the diptera of North America — 

Part I. Edited by R. OsTEX Sacken 141 

Part II. Edited by R. OsTEX Sacken 171 

Part III 256 

Review of North American Trjjpeiina o^g 

LoEW, IL ; OSTEN Sacken, R. Instructions for collecting diptera. (R. 1858). lOti 
Logan, T. M.— 

Climate of California. (R. 1855) 77 

Meteoroloi^ical observations at Sacramento, Cal. (R. 1854) 75 

Meteorology of Sacramento, Cal. (R. 1857) 107 

Logan, W. E. Request for duplicate shells. (R. 1859) 110 

LoMBAHD, H. C. Report on the transactions of Society of Physics and Natural 

History of Geneva, .July, 18G8, to June, 18G9. (R. 1809) 228 

Lombardy, Royal Scientific and Literary Institute of. Prize questions. (R. 

1865) .209 

Loncheres armatus, occurrence of, in the island of Martinigue, West Indies — F. 

W.True. (P. 1884) G07 

London — 

Fisheries Eshibitmn in 1883, collections of the United States at. See catalogues. 

Institution of Civil Engineers. Prize questions. (R. 1862) 150 

Royal Horticultural Society. Exchange of publications. (R. 1861) 149 

Royal Society of, origin and history of— C. A. Alexandeu. (R. 1863) 187 

Longfellow, H. W., and others. Report of American Academy of Arts and 

Sciences on organization of Smithsonian Institution. (R. 1853) ()7 

Long Islaud, fishes on coast of New Jersey aud— S. F. Baird. (R. 1854) 75, 348 

Longitude, transatlantic — B. A. Gould 223 

Longitude, Arctic— E. K. Kane 129 

LOOMIS, E. — 

Aurora borealis, or polar light, its phenomena and laws. (R. 1865) 209, 584 

Lecture on zone of small planets between Mars aud Jupiter. (R. 1854) 75 

On certain storms in Europe aud America, December, 1836 127 

Report on meteorology of the United States. (R. 1847) H 

Lopholatilus chamaileonticeps, new genus aud species offish from New England, 

description of— G. B. Goode ; T. H. Bean. (P. 1879) 333 

Lophophanes inoruatus cineraceus, new subspecies from Lower California, de- 
scription of— R. RiDGWAY. (P. 1883) 548 

Lotella maxillaris, new species of, collected in 1881 by U. S. Fish Commis- 
sion, description of— T. H. Bean. (P. 1884) 607 

Loucheux Indians— W. L. Hardisty. (R.1866) 214,365 

Loud, F. H. Discussion of Professor Snell's barometric observations. (R. 

1880) 442,435 

Louisiana — 

Caddo Parish, Indian remain in — T. P. Hotchkiss. (R. 1872) 27 1 

lower, geology of, and salt deposit of Petite Ansa Island — E. W. Hilgard.. 248 

mounds in— S. H. Lockett. (R. 1872) 271 

New Orleans — 

fishes collected in vicinity of, by R. W. Shnfeldt, list of— D. S. Jordan. 
(P. 1884) 607 



7G6 CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 

Louisiana — Coutiuued. 
Now Orleans — 

insects collected in vicinity of, iu 1882 and 1883, observations ou — R. W. 

Shufeldt. (P. 1884) 607 

occurrence of Ichthyomyzon castancus in — T. II. Bean. (P. 1882) 518 

Lo VERIXG, J. Memorial of J. Henry 356 

Lowe, T. S. C— 

Aeronautic voyage of, reply to memorial on — J. Henry. (R. 18G0) 147 

Memorial of citizens of Philadelphia relative to aeronautic voyage of, across 

thoAtlantic. (R. 1860) 147 

Lower California — 

Cape Saint Eugeuio, Belding collection of birds from, catalogue of— R. 

RiDGWAY. (P. 188>) 518 

Cape San Lucas, collections of fishes from, lists of — D. S. Jordan ; C. H. Gil- 
bert. (P. 1882) : 518 

collection of birds from, second catalogue of — L. Belding; R. Ridgway 

editor). (P. 1883) 548 

new species of conodon from— D. S. Jordan ; C. H. Gilbert. (P. 1882) 518 

San Cristobal, fishes collected at, by C. H. Townsend, notes on — R. Smith. 

(P. 1884) 607 

southern extremity of, Belding collection of birds from, catalogue of — R. 

Ridgway. (P. 1882) 518 

Todos Santos Bay — 

fishes of, notes ou—R. Smith. (P. 1883) 548 

moUusks from, notes on— C. R. Orcutt. (P. 1885) 650 

Lower Mississipi>i Valley, occurrence of striped bass in — T. H.Bean. (P. 1884) 607 
Lower Wabash River Valley, 111., native trees of, notes on — R. Ridgway. (P. 

1882) 518 

LoNiigilla, description of new subspecies of, from West Indies — G. N. Lawrence. 

(P. 1881) 467 

Lubbock, J. — 

North American archuiology. (R. 1862) 150 

Social and religious condition of lower races of man. (R. 1869) 228 

Lucas, Frederick A. Circular No. 33. Notes on the preparation of rough 

skeletons. (P. 1885) 650 

Lucas, F. A. ; True, F. W. On the West Indian seal {Monachus tropicalis, Gray). 

(R. 1884,1) 648 

Lucemariai, and their allies, anatomy and physiology of — H. J. Clark 242 

Lucilia macellaria infesting man— F. Hujibert. (P. 1883) 548 

LUDEWIG, H. E., and others. Ou publicationof Spanish works on New Mexico. 

(R, 1855) 77 

Lugger, O. 'Occurrence of Canada porcupine in Maryland. (P. 1881) 467 

Lunar effect on magnetic force — A. D. Bache 195 

Lupton, N. T. Breeding habits of sea catfish (Jriopsts miZ&e/'ii). (P. 1878).... 332 
Luray cavern — 

blind form of Lysiopetalidce from— J . A. Ryder. (P. 1880) 425 

report of Adsit to— O. T. Mason and others. (R. 1880) 442,433 

Lussac, Gay, eulogy on, by F. Arago. (R. 1876) 299 

Luther, I. N. Mound near Braceville, Trumbull County, Ohio. (R. 1881). 481,515 
Lutjaninse — 

osteological characters of the— T. Gill. (P. 1884) 607 

species of, found iu American waters, review of the — D. S. Jordan ; J. 

Swain. (P. 1884) 607 

Lutjauusblackfordii, notes on— G.B.Goode; T. II. Bean. (P. 1884) 607 

Lutjanus — 

blackfordii, from coast of Florida, description of— G. B. Goode; T. H. Bean. 

(P. 1878) 332 



CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 767 

Lutjanus — Coutiuucil. 

.steariisii, from coast of Florida, description of — G. B. GooDio; T. H. Bkax. 

(F. 1878) 332 

stearnsii, notes OD — G. B. Goode ; T. IL Bean. (F. l-^rf!j 607 

Lycodes — 

paxiilus, description of species of — G. B. Goode ; T. II. Bean. (F. 1879). .. I5I>:> 

Tnrneri, from Alaska, description of — T. H. Bean. (F. 1878) Xi'i 

Vulilii, occurrence of, ou La Have and Grand Banks — G. B. Gooue ; T. IL 

Beax. (P. 1879) 333 

Lycodopsis, Collett, identity of, with Leuri/n)iis, Lockington— T. Gill. (1*. 1880). 425 

Lycopodiacea>. of Kerguelca Island — A. Gray 294 

Lykixs, W. H. E. Antiquities of Kansas City, Mo. (R. 1877) 323 

Lyman, T. Ethnographical collections. (E. 18C2) 150 

Lyomeri, new order, anatomy of — T.Gill; J. A. Eyder. (P. 1883) 548 

Lyon, S. S. — 

Auti(|uities from Kentncky. (R. 1858) 109 

Mounds in Union County, Ky. (R. 1870) 244 

Lyon,\V.B. Antiquities in New Mexico. (R. 1871) 249 

Lysiopetalidie, North American species of — J. A. Ryder. (P. Ici80) 425 

Lythrulon, new subgenus— D. S.. Jordan ; J. Swain. (P. 1854) 007 

M. 

McAdams, William, jr. Mounds of the Mississippi Bottom, Illinois. (E. 1882). 535,540 

McClelland, M. A. Anti(i[uities of Knox. County, 111. (E. 1881) 481,515 

McClixtock, F. L. Meteorological observations in the Arctic Seas 146 

McCoxxkll, E. M. Account ot old Indian village, Kushkushkeo, near New 

Castle, Pa. (E. 1871) 249 

McCosn, J. Prayer at memorial service of Prof. Joseph Henry 356 

Macdonald, J. A. Analyses of Chinese and Japanese coals 202 

McHexry, J. W. ; Hailk,J. Antiquities of Jackson County, Tenn. (E. 1874). 286 
McKay, C. L.— 

Plants collected by, list. of~F. H. Kxowltox. (P. 1S85) 650 

Ee view of Ccntrarch idw. (P. 1 88 1 ) 407 

McKixley,W. Mounds in Mcintosh and Early Counties, Ga. (E. 1872) 271 

McMasters, S. Y. Language of Navajos said to resemble the Welsh. (E. 1865) 209 
McParlix, T. a. Notes on history and climate of New Mexico. (E. 1877).. .323,396 

McWhorter,T., Ancient mounds of Mercer County, 111. (E. 1874) 286 

Mackerel, the frigate {Aiixis Eochei), on New England coast— G. B. Goode. (P. 

1880) 425 

MacLeax, J.P.— 

Ancient remains in Ohio. (R. 1885) 645,649 

Earth-work in Highland County, Ohio. (R. 18>::!) 588,593 

Earth-works near Jones' Station, Butler County, Ohio. (E. 1881) 481,515 

Mounds in Butler County, Oliio. (E. 1833) 588,593 

Eemains on Blenuerhassett's Island, Ohio Eivcr. (E. 1882) .535,540 

Signal mounds of Butler County, Ohio. (E. 1882) .535,.540 

Macrocheilus of Phillips, remarks on — C.A.White. (P. 1883) 548 

Macrurus acrolepis, new species, from Washington Territory — T. H. Bean. (P. 

1883) ! S48 

caribbipus, description of— G. B. Goode ; T. II. Bean. ( 1'. 1885) 050 

occa, description of— G.B. Goode; T. H. Bean. (P. 1885) 050 

Madrid Eoyal Academy of Science. Exchanges. (E. ISfil) 149 

Maedler, J. H. Movement of the stars arouud a central point. (E. 1859) 110 

Mageudie,F., memoir of, by M. Flourexs. (E. 1866) 214 



768 CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 

Magnetic — 

observations at Girard College, discussion of — A. D. Bache : 

Parti. Eleven year x)eriod in amplitude of solar diurnal variation 113 

Part II. Solar diurnal variation in magnetic declination 121 

Part III. Influence of moon on magnetic declination 132 

Parts IV, V, VI. Horizontal force 162 

Parts VII, VIII, IX. Vertical force 175 

Parts X, XI, XII. Dip and total force 186 

Parts i-xii. Complete 195 

observations — 

in the Arctic Seas— E. K. Kaxe 97 

in the Arctic Seas — 1. 1. Hayes 196 

on continuance of— E. Sabixe. (R. 1853) 100 

on the iron-clad Monadnock — W. Hakkxess 239 

observatory at the Smithsonian Institution, description of — J. E. lIiL(iARi). 

(R. 1859) 110 

storms— E. Sabixe. (R. 1860) : 147 

survey of Pennsylvania (etc.)— A. D. Bache 166 

telegraph. *See Telegraph. 
Magnetism — 

history of discovery relative to. (R. 1883) 187 

later views of connection of electricity and — H. IIelmiioltz ; J. C. Max- 
well. (R. 1873) 275 

terrestrial, observations on — W. Hakkxess 239 

terrestrial, observations on — J. Locke 35 

terrestrial, observations on, in Mexico — Baron vox iNIuller ; A. Soxxtag. 114 

Magnns, Henry Gustavns, life and labors of. (R. 1870) 244 

Maguixi, L. Continuous vibratory moveni'.ut of all matter. (R. 18G8) 224 

Mailly, E.— 

Estimate of popi'.lation of the world. (R. 1873) 275 

Eulogy on Qnetelet. (R.1874) 286 

History of Royal Institution of Great Britain. (R. 1807) 215 

Maine — 

Building stone in the National Museum, on the collection of — G. P. Meij- 

RiLL. (P. 1883) 548 

Brunswick, result of meteorological observations at — P. Cleavelaxd 204 

granite, black nodules in — G. P. Merrill. (P. 1883) 548 

Kennebec River, opening and closing of— R. H. Gardixek. (R. 1858) 109 

Portland Society of Natural History, account of— E. C. Bolles. (R. 1867).. 215 

remains of walrus (?) in— C. H. Boyd. (P. 1881) 467 

Schoodic lakes, description of apparently new species of Gaalcrosieits from — 

T. H. Bean. (P. 1879) 333 

Makah Indians — 

account of the— G. GiBBS 220 

memoir on the— J. G. Swan 220 

Makah vocabulary— J. G. Swan 220 

Makanda, Jackson County, 111., stone fort near.— G. H. French. (R. 1881) . . 481, 515 
Malacocephalus occidentalis, description of — G. B. Goode; T. H. Beax. (P. 

1885) 650 

Mammals, aquatic, of the United States atLondon Fisheries Exhibition in 1883, 

catalogue of— F. W. True 511,521,562 

Mallery, G. Sign language among North Amerioan Indians compared with 

that among other jieoples and deaf-mutes. (E. 1879-'80) 476 

Pictographs of the North American Indians 652 

Mallet, R. On observations of earthquake phenomena. (R. 1859) 110 



CATALOGUK 01-^ PUl^.LICATIONS. 769 

Mallixkiuoot, C. Cliiuiges of wind. (K.lHtJC)) 214 

M:iltluM(l:i>, note on the— T. Gii.i.. (P. l-^TS) ;j32 

Mjiiiiiuiils — 

;vii(l l)ir(l.s orMissoiiii Ivivc-r, Jist of — E. Haukis. (11. IrioO) 28 

!iriani;(Miioufc of families of — T. Gill , 230 

bibliography of — T. Gili 2:50 

(lepartinciit of, National Museum, lepoit of curator for liSSl, i. (R. 1884, li) G4d 

report on, for 1885— F. W. Tkuk. (R. 188.', ii) 654 

extinct, of Nebraska- J. Lkidy 58 

North American, catalogue of— S. F. Ijaiud 103 

of Arctic America — L. Ku.mliex ;542 

of Kergueleu Island — J. II. Kiddkr 21)4 

of the^Bermudas— J. M. Jo.nes 41)1, 41)5, 505 

plan for collection of, for New Orleans Exposition of 1884-1885 — F. W. TitCK. 

(P. 1884) 602,(507 

skins of, brief directions for removing and preserving the — W. T. lIor.XA- 

DAY. (P. 1883) 589 

synoptical tables of^T. Gill 230 

Man- 
as the couteniporary of the mammoth and reindeer in middle Europe. (R. 

18G7) 215 

ancient, in Michigan, characteristics pertaining to— H. Gillmax. (R. 

1875) 21)8,393 

later prehistoric, remains of, from caves in Alaska — W. II. Dali 313 

on traces of the early mental condition of — E. B. T.vyluu. (R. 18!»7) 215 

social and religious condition of the lower races of — J. Luubock. (R. 18uD) 228 
Management of the Smithsonian Institution, report of Senate Judiciary Com- 
mittee oil — A. P. BuTLKK. (E. 1855) 77 

Mandan ceremonies, accuracy of Catlin's account of — J. Kipp. (E. 1872) 271 

Manx,C. Habits of a species of salamander. (R. 1854) 75 

Manners of Shoshone Indians — A. G. Buackktt. (R. 187;>) 345 

Manual of American land shells— W. G. Blxxly 549 

Manufacture of spear and arrow points along Savannah Eivcr— C. C. .JoXES, Jr. 

(E. 1879) "..-. , 345 

Manuscripts, etc. — 

Ilalliwell, report on— C. G. Jkwett. (R. 1852) 57 

Historical and geographical, catalogue of collection of — L. BePvLandiek. 

(E. 1854) 75 

linguistic, in librarv of Bureau of Ethnology, catalogue of — J. C. PiLLlxci. • 

(E. 1879-1880) ■ 470 

Maya and Mexican, notes on — C. Thomas. (E. 1881-1832) (531 

Map of— 

antiquities of United States, jiroposcd — A. J. Hill. (R. 1861) 149 

arcbajological, the District of Columbia — L. P. KEXiiLA 537 

solar eclix>so of March 1.5, 1858- T. IIili 101 

stars for observations on meteorites 359 

stars Jicar North Pole for observations on auroras 350 

United States, ethnological, proposed — G. Gibjis. (R. 1S()2) 150 

Maps — 

and charts of America, on a collection of — J. G. KOUL. (R. 1856) 91 

catalogue of collection of— L. Berlaxdier. (E. 1854) 75 

ethnological, of North America, suggestions relative to — L. II. Morgan. 

(E.1861) 149 

of winds of the globe — S. J. Coffix 268 

IT. Mis. 170 49 



770 CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 

Marble used iu oxteusiou of Uuitcd States Capitol, account of — J. Hexp.y. (R. 

185G) 91 

Makckt, Professor. Eeport on transactions of Society of Physics and Natural 

History of Geneva, July, 186-2, to Ju nc, 18G3. (R. 1863) 187 

Marcou, John Belkxap — 

A list of the Mesozoic and Cenozoic types in the collections of the U. S. Na- 
tional Museum. (P. 1885) „ 650 

Bibliographies of F. B. Meek, C, A. White, and C. D. Walcott 625 

Report on j)rogress iu North American paleontology — 

(E. 1884) 623.610 

(R. 1885) 649,642 

Marey, E. J. — 

Natural history of organized bodies. (R. 1867) 215 

Plienomena Oif flight in the animal kingdom. (R. 1869) 228 

Mariauiui, Stefano, life and scientific labors of, by C. Matteucci. (R. 1869) 228 

Marietta, Ohio, meteorological observations at — S. P. Hildketh ; J. Wood 120 

Mai-iue algaj — 

lecture on— W. H.Harvey. (R. 1855) 77 

of North America — W. H. Harvey : 

Part I. Melanospermcoi 32 

Part II. Uliodospermece 43 

Part III. ChlorosjpermecB 95 

Parts I, II, III, complete 96 

Marine — 

Crustacea of Labrador, review of — S. I. Smith. (P. 1883) 548 

mugilidiE, American species of, review of the — D. S. Jordan ; J. Swain. 

(P. 1884) 607 

Marino invertebrates — 

department of, National Museum, report of curator for 1884. (R. 1884, ii) . . 648 
department of, National Museum, report on, for 1885 — R. Rathbun. (R. 

1885,11) 654 

distributed by U. S. National Museum— R. Rathbun. (P. 1881) 465, 467 

duplicates, list of, distributed by Museum. Series iv — R. S. Tarr; R. Rath- 
bun 516 

list of, distributed by the Fish Commission. Series i — A. E. Verrill ; . R 

Rathbun 494 

of the northeastern coast of America, notice of recent additions to the — A. 

E. Verrill. (P. 1885) 650 

of the northeastern coast of America, recent additions to — A. E. Verrill. 

(P. 1882) 518 

of Grand Manan — W. Stimpson 50 

of New England coast distributed by U. S, Fish Commission — A. E. Ver- 
rill; R. Rathbun. (P. 1879) 333 

of northeastern coast of America, notice of recent additions to, with descrip- 
tions of new genera and species — A. E. Verrill : 

Part I. Annelida, etc. (P. 1879) 333 

Part II. MoUusca, with notes on Annelida, etc. (P. 1880) 425 

Part III. Catalogue of MoUusca recently added to fauna of southern New 

England. (P. 1880) 425 

on collection and preservation of — W. Stimpson 34 

Maritime disasters of the Antilles. (R. 1867) 215 

Marrow of animals, uses of, among Indians — T. R. Peale. (R. 1870) 244 

Mars — 

secular variations of elements of orbit of— J. N. Stockwell 232 

small planets between Jnpiter and — Professor Lespiault. (R. 1861) 149 



CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 771 

Miir.sfliall, A., list of generic names supplomeutal to those catalogued by — S. IL 

SCUDDER 470 

Maush, G. p. Lecture on the camel. (E. 1854) 75 

Marsh, G. P., and others. On publication of S<iuier and Davis' ancient mon- 
uments. (R. 1847) H, K 

Marsipobraucliiates, notes on— T. Gill. (P. 1882) 518 

Marsipobranchii, arrangement of families of — T. Gill 247 

Martix,S.D. Account of lightning discharges. (R. 1867) 215 

Martinique — 

catalogue of Ober's collection of birds of— G. N. Lawrence. (P. 1878) ;532 

\\'e.st Indies, occurrence of Londiercs armatus in — F. W. True. (P. 1884) 607 

Martins, C. Vegetable colonization of the British Isles of Shetland, Faroe, and 

Iceland. (R. 1358) 109 

Martins, C. F. P. voii — 

honorary medal to — W. Haidinger. (R.1S63) 187 

memoir of, by C. Rau. (R. 1869) 228,440,251 

Maryland — 

Charles County, antiquities of— O. N. Bryan. (R. 1874) 286 

occurrence of Canada porcupine in — O. LuGGRE. (P. 1881) 467 

Washington County, antiiinities in- JOHX P. Smith. (R. 1882) 5:'.5, 540 

Masox, C. Statement relative to the telegraph. (R. 18^)7) 107, ;>29 

Masox, O. T.— 

Abstracts of anthropological correspondence, 1880. (R. 1880) 412 

Abstracts from anthropological correspondence. (iS'ee also Miscellaneous pa- 
pers relative to anthropology. (R. 1881; 1882) 515,540 

Account of progress in antliropology — 

1879, 1880. (R.-1880) 412,432 

1881. (R.1881) - 515,488 

1832. (R. 18S2) 540,531 

1883. (R. 1883) 593,583 

1884. (R. 1884) 623,618 

1885. (R. 1885) 649,640 

Anthropological investigations in 1879. (R. 1879) 345,420 

Anthropological investigations in 1880. (R. 1880) 442,432 

Basket-work of the North American abeorigines. (R. 1884, ii) 648 

Bibliography of anthropology. (R. 1879 ; R. 1880) 345, 442 

(Editor) miscellaneous papers relating toanthropology, 1881. (R. 1881).. 515, 481 

Latimer collection of antiquities from Porto Rico. (R. 1876) 299,337 

Leipsic Museum of Ethnology. (R. 1873) 275 

Report on Departnu-nt of Ethnology, National Museum, fOr 1884. (R. 1884, ii) 648 
Report on Department of Ethnology, National Museum, for 1885. (R. 1835, ii) 654 

Report on Luray cavern. (R. 1880) 442, 433 

Summary of anthropological correspondence, 1879. (R. 1879) 345,420 

The Chaclacayo trephined skull (with Plate xxii.) (P. 1885) 650 

The Guesde collection of antiquities in Point-ji-Pitre, Guadalupe. (R. 1884) 623, 

621 
throwing-sticks in the National Museum. (R. 1884') 648 

Massachusetts — 

Harnstable County, shell heaps in— Daxiel WiNG. (R. 1881) 481,51 

Buzzard's Bay, occurrence of Belone laiimanus in — G. B. Goode. (P. 1878). 332 
Provincetown, Cape Cod, littoral marine fauna of— R. Rathbux. (P. 1880). 425 

Provincetown, shell heaps near— H. E. Chase. (R. 1882) .535,540 

Vineyard Sound, occurrence of oceanic bonito in — V. N. Edwards. (P. 



1878) 



332 



Wampanoag Indians of, notes on the— Henry E. Chase. (R. 1883) 588,593 



772 CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 

Masterman, S. — 

Observations on natural phenomena, sliooting stars, aurora, etc. (R. 1857) . 107 
Observations on thunder and lightning. (R. 1855) 77 

Mastnrus, new genus, synopsis of — T.Gill. (P. 1884) 007 

Materia luedica — 

eollectiou, classification, and arrangement of — J. M. Flint. (P. 1881).. 4(37,450 
collection in National Museum, classification of — J. M. Flixt. (P. 1883) . . 548, 539 
collection in National Museum, classification of the — J. M. Flint; H. G. 

Beyer. (P. 1885) 050,622 

department of. National Museum, report on, for 1885— G. II. Beyeu. (R. 

1885") 054' 

section of the U. S. National Museum, memoranda for collectors of drugs for 

the— J. M. Flint. (P. 1831) 407,452 

section. National Museum, report of curator for 1884. (R. 1884) 048 

Matter, continuous vibratory movement of — L. Maguina. (R. 1808) 224 

Matteucci, C. — 

Electrical currents of the earth. (R. 1807 ; R. 18G9) 215, 228 

Lectures on electro-physiology. (R. 1805) 209 

Life and scientific labors of Stefano Marianini. (R. 1809) ^ . 228 

Matthew, G. F. A supposed specimen of aboriginal art. (R. 1881) 481,515 

Matthews, W. — 

Navajo silversmiths. (E. 1880-1881) .542 

Navajo weavers. (E. 1881-1882) 0:U 

Mauvaiscs Torres — 

expedition to the Upper Missouri and the — T. A. Culbektsox. (R. 1850). 28 
of Nebraska, extinct mammalia and chelouia from (,he — J. Leidy 58 

Maxwell, J. C. ; Hklmiioltz, II. Later views of connection of electricity and 

magnetism. (R. 1871)) 275 

Maya — 

and Mexican manuscripts, notes on — C. Thomas. (P. 1881-1882) 0:J1 

sculpture, remarks on ancient relic of — A. Schott. (R. 1871) 240 

Matberry, S. p. — 

Gradual approach of sea upon land. (R. 1807) 215 

Shell heaps at mouth of St. John's River, Florida. (R. 1877) 32:? 

Mayer, A. M.— 

Henry as a discoverer. Memorial address :>5G, 417 

Translation by, of Delauiiay's essay on velocity of light. (R. 1804) 188,354 

Mayer, B. Observations on Mexican history and archteology 86 

Mazatlan — 

descriptions of new fishes fronj— D. S. Jordan ; C. II. Gilbert. (P. 18S1 ) . . . 407 
Mexico, new species of lihhiobaiun {(iJanco>ii\<jmu) from, description of — D. 

S.Jordan; C.H.Gilbert. (P. 1883) 548 

new species oi sc'uena scicrna from, description of — D. S. Jordan ; C. H. Gil- 
bert. (P. 1884) G(/7 

new s]»ecies of Urolophmt from, description of — D. S. Jordan; C. H. Gil- 
bert. (P. 1882) 518 

Meacham, J. Minority report of Committee of Regents on distribution of Smith- 
son income. (R. 1853) - 07 

Meads, O. Memorial of Joseph Henry 350 

Measurements — 

anthropological, table of— Scherzer ; Sen WARZ. (R. 180()) 214 

mountain — A. Guyot. (R. 1862) 150 

Measures — 

and weights, English and French, tables of. (R. 1803 ; R. 1664) 187, 188 

and Aveights, metric system of, with tables— II. A. Newton. (R. 1805) ..200, 371 



CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. ii,) 

Measures — Contiuucd. 

and weights, new .syslciii of, with rf as tlu! iiutiical iimalicr — G. II. Kmgiit. 

(K. 18(J7) - :^i:^ 

of sim'-sdisfaucc— G.r.. AiUY. (R. 1850) IIU 

Mfasufiiig iu,struni«iit, use ofgalvauouioter as — J. C. Pogcjendouff. (R. lSr>0). 110 
Meoliauics and artisans, scientilic education of— A. P. Pi-^AltODY. (R. 1872) .. .271, 380 

a\I(>e]iaiiisni of fever, study of. Toner Lecture No. iv — II. C. Yv'ood 282 

Medal to Von Martins— W. IlAlDiXtiKR. (R. IHGI!) 1~^7 

Medical practice, relation of food to work and its bearinj^ on— S. IfAUOirrox. 

{R.1870) 211 

. Medicines, classification of forms in whicli drugs and, ai)i>(>ar an<l are adminis- 
tered— J. M. Flint. (P.18&1) 1(17,451 

Medulla oblongata and trapezium, gray substance of the — ,T. Deax 173 

Medusa', collection of, made by Fish Commission, steamer Jlhatross—.f. W. 

Fewkes. (!'. IHsn) C>'>0 

Mekcii, L. W. Relative intensity of heat and light of the sun. (U. 185(5) !)1.83 

M EEK, F. I>. — Bibliography of— J. B. Maucou 625 

Check-list of invertebrate fossils of North America. Cretaceous and Ju- 
rassic , 177 

Check list of invertebrate fossils of North America. Miocene 183 

and others. Scientific instructions to Captain Hall. (R. 1871) 2 lO 

Meek, F.r..; ILvYnEN,F. V. Pala-ontology of Upper Missouri. Part i 172 

Meek,.]. 15. Account of tornado in Spruce Creek Valley, Centre County, Pa. 

(R. 1871) 21L» 

Meek, Setii E. Description of a new species of Uyhopslti (Hi/hoims monianns). 

(P. 1884) (;<»7 

Sec (tlfio under Jordan and Meek and Swain and Meek. 

Meigs,.!. A. Description of human skull from Rock Bluff, 111. (R. 18G7) 215 

Melanctta fusca CLinu.) in Alaska— R. Ridgway. (P. 1SS4) (107 

Melauians of North America— G. W. Tryox, Jr 253 

Mclanosperme.e of North America, description of — W. II. IIaiivey 32 

Melbourne Mining Department. Exchange system. (R. 1865) 209 

Malita— 

formosa, now speoics from Arctic Alaska, description of — J. MuuDocn. (P. 

1S84;) C,{)7 

Iconis, new species from Arctic Alaska, description of— J. MuHDOCif. (P. 

1884) n07 

Melsheimer, F. E. Catalogue of described colcoptera of the United States 62 

Melting points — 

bibliography of — F. W. Clarke 255 

tablesof. Part i— F.W.Clarke 255 

tables of. First supplement— F. W. CLAliKE 288 

Memoir. See Biography, Life, Eulogy. 
Memoir of^ 

Agassiz, Louis — R. P. Ste»bins. (R. 1873) 275 

Babbage, Charles -N. S. Dodge. (R. 187:5) 275 

Beautoinps-Beaupr6, C. F.— E. De Beaumont. (R. 18(13) 187 

Blainville, Ducrotay de— M. Floukens. (R. 1805) 209 

Bravais, Auguste— E. De BEAUiMONT. ( R. 18(19) 228 

Bach, Leopold von— M. Flourens. (R. 18tJ2) IM 

Candolle, Pyramus de— M. Flourexs. (R. 1859) 110 

Clark,n.J.— A. S.Packard 242 

Cuvier,G.— M. Flourens. (R. 1868) 224 

Delauibre, J. B.— J. Fourier. CR. 1364) 188 

Encke.J.F.- G. Hagen. (R. 18G8) 224 



774 CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 

Memoir of — 

Gibbs, George— J. A. Stevens. (R. 1873) 275 

Ilaiiy, Ren6 Just— G. Ciivicr. (R. 1860) 147 

Henry, Joseph— A. Gray. (R. 1878) 341, 35G, 407 

Henry, Josepli — J. Lovering 35G 

Henry, Joseph— S. Newcomb 35G 

Henry, Joseph— "W. B. Taylor 356,339 

Herschel, Sir John Frederick William- N. S. Dodge. (R. 1871) 249 

Hodgkinsou, Eaton— R. Rawson. (R. 18GS) 224 

Legendre, A. M.— E. De Beaumont. (R, 18G7) 215 

Magendie, F.— M. Flourens. (R. 1866) 2H 

Martins, C. F. P. von— C. Rau. (R. 1869) 228, 440, 251 

Oersted, H. C— E. De Beaumont. (R. 1863) 224 

Peltier, J. C. A.— F. A. Peltier. (R. 1867) 215 

Priestly, J.— G. Cuvier. (R. 1858) 109 

Saint-Hilaire, Isidore Geoffroy— J. L. Quatrefages. (R. 1862) 150 

Sain t-Hilaire, GeofFroy—M. Flourens. (R. 18G1) 149 

Seaton, W. W.— J. Henry. (R. 1866) 214 

Th6nard, Louis Jacques — M. Flourens. (R. 1862) 150 

Torrey, John— A. Gray. (R. 1873) 275 

Memoir on — 

anatomy and physiology of lucernarise— H. J. Clark... 242 

esplosiveness of niter — R. Hare 17 

extinct sloth tribe of North America — J. Leidy 72 

extinct species of American ox — J. Leidy 41 

meteorological subjects, by J. Hann and others. Translated by C. Abbe. 

(R. 1877) 323,398 

methods of interpolation — E. L. De Forest. (R. 1871-1873) 249, 275 

mosasaurus — R. W. Gibbes 14 

Memoranda — 

for collectors of drugs for materia medica section of the U. S. National 

Museum- J. M. Flint. (P. 1881) 407,452 

of inquiry relative to food fishes of United States 231 

Memorial — 

address on Joseph Henry — A. M. Mayer 3iSG, 417 

of citizens of Philadelphia relative to Lowe's aeronautic voyage across the 

Atlantic. (R. 1860) 147,329 

of Joseph Henry. (Published by Congress) 35G 

of Regents to Congress asking appropriations for Museum. (R. lSo7) 215, 329 

of Regents to Congress relative to Smithson fund. (R. 1850 ; R. 18G6) . . 28, 214, 329 
to Congress in behalf of Regents relative to new museum building — G. Ban- 
croft. (E. 1876) 299,329 

Menhaden, gulf {Brevoortia 2>aironus), note on — S. Stearns. (P. 1878) 332 

Mental condition of man, early traces of— E. B. Tylor. (R. 1867) 215 

Mercer County, Ky., mounds in — W. M. LiNNEY. (R. 1881) 481,515 

Mercury, secular variations of elements of orbit of, with tables — J. N. Stock- 
well 232 

Merino, St. M, Figure of the earth. (E. 1863) 187 

Merisus (Homoporns) subapterus — C. V. Riley. (P. 1885) 650 

Merluciu.s, diagnosis of genus of fish related to— G. B. Goodk. (P. 1880) 425 

MERttiAM, C. H. Contributions to the natural history of the Bermudas. Part 

V. Notes on birds 495,567 

Merrill, George P. — 

Note on a Potsdam sandstone or conglomerate from Berks Couuty, Pa. (P. 

1882) 518 



CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 775 

Mkkrill, George P. — Coutiniied. 

Circiilar No. 25, Appendix : rrolimiiKn-y plan for a collection of the buildinjj 
and ornamental stones and rocks of tlio United States, to bo exhibited 
at the World's Indnstrial and Cotton Centennial Exposition of 

188J-1835, at New Orleans. (P. 1884) GO? 

Notes on the mineralogy and lithology of the District of Columbia. (P. 

1S35) C50 

on deposits of volcanic dust and sand in southwestern Nebraska (with eight 

figures in text). (P. 188.5) fi.">0 

on hornblende andesites from the new volcano on Bogosloff Island, in Behring 

Sea. (P. 1885) C,',0 

on prochlorite from the District of Columbia. (P. 1884) 007 

on the black nodules or so-called inclusions in the Maino granite. (P. 188:') 548 
on the collection of Maiue l)uilding stones in the U. S. National Museum. 

(P. 1883) 543 

Preliminary note on the crystalline schists of the District of Columbia. (P. 

1883) .548 

Report on department of lithology and physical geology, National Museum, 

for 1884. {R. 1884 u) ."^ G43 

Report on department of lithology and physical geology. National Museum, 

for 1885. (R. 1885") ! G,54 

Merrill, J. C. — 

Habits of Rocky Mountain goat. (P. 1879) 333 

List of birds observed near Fort Brown, Tex., 1876-1873. (P. 1873) 332 

Morula confiuis, Baird, note on— R. Ridgway. (P. 1883) .548 

Meso-coDOzoic invertebrate fossils, department of. National Museum, report of 

curator for 1884. (R. 1884") G48 

Mesoplodon Stejnegeri, new species, de8crii)tion of— F. W. True. (P. 1885) G.50 

Mesozoic — 

and cenozoic types in National Museum, list of — J. B. Marcou. (P. 18.85). G50 
rocks of Arkansas, Wyoming, Colorado, and Utah, descriptions of new iu- 

vertebrate fossils from— C. A. White. (P. 1880) 425 

Metal, hydrogen as gas and— J. E. Reynolds. (R. 1870) 244 

Metallic eastings of delicate natural objects. (P. 1881) 4G7 

Metallurgy and economic geology, department of, National Museum, report on, 

for 1885— F. P. Dewey. (R. 1885, ii) G54 

Metamorphism and formation of crystalliuo roek..G. A. Daubree. (R. 18(11).. 149 

Meteoric lire-ball, orbit and phenomena of — J. IT. COFFix 221 

Meteoric shower of November 13, 1SG7, letter of M. Hoek relative to 217 

Meteoric stones, lectures on — J. L. Smith. (R. 1855) 77 

Meteorite — 

in Mexico— A. WooDW^ORTn. (R. 18G7) 215 

in Mexico, account of — R. Si.MSox. (R. 1867) 215 

in Mexico, discovery of large — W. M. Pierson. (R. 1873) 275 

Tucson, account of— S. AixSA. (R. 18G3) 187 

Tucson, account of— B. J. D. Irwin. (R. 1863) 187 

Meteorites — 

extract from discourse on— F. Brennbecke. (R. 1869^ 228 

in Mexico— J. H. Carleton. (R. 1865) 209 

in minerological collection of Yale College, catalogue of— G. J. Brush. (R. 

1863) 224 

Synthetic experiments relative to — G. A. Daubree. (R. 1SG3) 224 

Meteorograph, universal, for detached observatories — E. II. von Baumhauer. 

(R. 1879) 345 



776 CATALOGUE OF PUULICATIONS. 

MeteorologLcal — 

and physical tables— A. (JUYOT 522, 538 

articles iu periodicals received by Smithsonian Institution and deposited in 

Library of Congress. (R. is71; R. 1873) 240,275 

correspondeuco of the Institution, extracts from. (R. 18G6) 21« 

". discovery— F. L. Capex. (R. 18G6) 214 

instruments, description of— L. Casella. (R. 1859) 110 

material contributed to the Smithsonian Institution. (R. 18C0-1865, 18G7, 

1871, 1874) 147, 149, 150, 187, 183, 209, 215, 224, 228, 244, 249, 286 

memoirs— J. Hann ; L. SoiixcKi: ; T. Reye; W. Ferrel ; A. Coldixg; M. 

Peslin; C. Abbe. (R. 1877) 32:5, 398 

publications deposited iu Library of Congress, classified list of. (R. 1873).. 275 
reports preserved iu the Smithsonian Institution, classified list of (R. 1873). 275 

stations, cost of establishment of— J. Hexry. (R. 1858) 109 

stations and observers, list of. (R. 1849, 1853-1873.) 21, 67, 75, 77, 91, 107, 1C9, 
110, 147, 149, 150, 187, 188, 209, 214, 215. 224, 228, 244, 249, 271,275, 373 
subjects, short memoirs on, by J. Ilann and others. Translated by C. 

Abbe. (R. 1837) 323,398 

suggestions for Russian America — J. IIexky 2C7 

system for every State — Illinois State Board OF Education. (R. 1855). 77 

system of Canada— ,J. G. IIODGixs. (R. 18G5) 209 

system of Smithsonian lustitntion, report on— E. Foreman. (R. 1851 ; R. 

1852 ....51.57 

tables — A. GuYOT 31, 153 

telegrams by Western Union Telegraph Company — II. Sibley. (R. 1862).. 150 
Meteorological observations — 

at Brunswick, Maine— P. Cleavkl.ynd 204 

at Marietta, Ohio— S. P. IIildreth; J. Wood 120 

at Philadelphia, Girard College, discussion of— A. D. Bache 113, 121, 132 

162, 175, 186, 195 

at Providence, R. I., I831-18!i0— A. Caswell 103 

at Providence, R. |., 1831-187G— A. Caswell * 443,547 

at Sacramento, Cal.— F. W. Hatch. (R. 1854) 75 

at Sacramento, Cal.— T. M. Logan. (R. 1854) 75 

at San Francisco, Cal.— H. Gibbons. (R. 1854) 75 

at Washington, Aik.— X. D. Sjiitii 131 

combined, report of American Association for Advancement of Science on 

system of. (R. 1351) 51 

directionsfor— A. Guyt>t; J. Henry. (R. 1855) 77,19,148 

in the Arctic Seas— I. I. Hay'es 196 

in the Arctic Seas— E. K. Kane 104 

in the Arctic Seas— F. L. McClintock 146 

results of, from 1854 to 1859. Vols, i, ii 157, 182 

Smithsonian, for the year 18.55 93 

Meteorology. See Atmospheric pressure, Temperature, Rain, Winds, etc. 
account of progress in — C. Abbe — 

1881. (R. 1881) 515,484 

1882. (R. 1882) 540,528 

1883. (R. 1883) 593.577 

1884. (R. 1884) 623,612 

articles on. (R. 1867; R. 1870) 215,244 

articles ou, Avith notes by J. Henry. (R, 1871) 249 

communication relative to — J. P. Espy. (R, 1847) H 

lectures and notes ou—R. Russell ; J.Henry. (R. 1854) 75 

of Caracas, South. America— G. A. Ernst. (R. 1867) 215 



CATALOCaiE OF I'UliLlCATIONS. 777 

Mctoorology — Continued. 

of Colonia Tovar, Veui'ziK'lii— A. F:'..ni)I,kk. (I;. 1>J.'i7) 107 

of District of Columbiii— J. Wissnku. (K. lb.")?) 107 

of Grccu Ilivcr country, Utah — Colonel Collins. (K. 1S71) 249 

of Porto Rico— G. Latimer. (R. 1871) 2 10 

of Russia— A. Woeikoff. (R. 1S72) 271 

of Sacramento, Cal.— T. M. Logax. ( R. 1857 j 107 

of the United States, report on— K. LooMis. (R. 1S47) H 

Meteors — 

articles on, preserved in Siuitlisonian. (R. 1H7-1) 28G 

observation of— L. Andrews. (R. IStUi) 214 

of November 13, 1SG7 217 

planisphere of the heavens for observations of 359 

Method of — 

ascertaining amount of water in rivers — A. A. IIumi'uuevs. (R. bS.'iS) 101) 

capture and utilization of animals — G. B. Gooi>e 297 

form ing sraal 1 weights— R. Hare. ( R. lSr)S) 109 

installation in the National Museum— G. P.. Goodk. (P. 1881) U'.7, 472 

interpolation, addition to memoirs on — P. li. ])e Forest. (R. 187:'.) 27;") 

interpolation applicable to graduation of irn>gulnr seiies — P. P. I>e For- 
est. (R. 1871) ~P-» 

making and preserving plaster casts — A. Pxkz. (P. 1881) -t'lT 

preserving lepidoptera—T. R. Peale. (R. 18();5) 187 

Methrioptoms, Reiclieubach— R. Ridgway (P. 1882) ^18 

Metric system — 

for scientiilc observation — A. Guyut. (R. 1818) I 

of weights and measures, with tables— II. A. Newtox. (P. isi;.",) 209, 371 

with 8 as base— G. II. Knight. (R. 1307) 2ir. 

Mettenius, G. Acknowledgment for ferns. (R. 1802) I.'jO 

Mexican — 

axG-Otl, change of, to an amblystoma— A. Weism.vxn. (R. 1877) :>2:?,401 

boundary, forests and trees of Florida and the — J. G. Cooper. (P. 18f)0). 117 

history and archajology, obsc^rvation on — P>. M.vyi.r 86 

Maya and, manuscripts, notes on— C. Tiio:sias. (E. 1881-1882) (i:!l 

Society of Geography and Statistics. Exchanges. (R. IStil ; R. 18G.')) . ..119,209 

Mexico-- 

description of large fossil gasteropod from— C. A. White. (P. 18S0) 12.") 

description of new fishes from— D. S.J()i;i)AX; C. II. (Jit.ui'.RT. (lM8.sl) .. Uu 
descrii)tiou of new species of genus I!rcr:ii>rH<i from — G. P. (Joode. (P. 

1878) ^ :5^^ 

eastern, earthquake in, January, l-'GG— C. Saktorhis. (!;.l8Gri) 214 

explorations of John Xantus in— r^I. RoMER.o. (R. 18G2) loO 

fresh-water sponges from — E. Potts. (P. 18-.')) G.'O 

Guanajuato and Chapala Lake, notes on Luges collection of iislies fVojn — D. 

S.-Tordax. (P. 1879) :!;>•> 

Guavmas, fishes colieeted at, ))y H. F. Emeric, notes on — D. S. Jordan. (P. 

1881) ' G07 

Gulf i)f. Src Gulf of IMexico. 

Xantus colled ion of Iislies from, catalogiicof — 1). S. Jokdax ; ('. II. 'Jil- 

bert. (P. 1882) r>18 

list of described birds of, not in Smithsonian collection 185 

magnetic observafions in — P.irou vox Muller : .\. Sonntag Ill 

Ma/.at Ian- 
new fisliesfr()in,descriptioiiof—D. S.Jordan; C. II. Gilijert. (P. 1881) 4G7 
new species o[ JUiiiiohdhtH (filaucostiffma) frcmi,. description of — D. S. .loR- 
DAx; C.H. Gilijert. (P. 188:3).! .'.18 



778 CATALOGUE OF PITRLTCATIONS. 

Mexico — Continued. 
Mazatlan — 

now species of sciama scierra from, description of — D. S. Jokdax ; C. H. 

Gilbert. (P. 1884) 607 

new species of Uralophus from, description of — D. S. Jordan ; C. H. Gil- 
bert. (P.1882) 518 

meteorite in — R. Snisox. (R. 18(J7) 215 

meteorite in — A. Woodworth. (R. 1867) 215 

meteorite in, discovery of— W. M. Piersox. (R. 1873) 275 

meteorites in — J. H. Carletox. (R. 1865) 209 

notes on fishes from, collected hj Lieut. 11. E. Nichols — D. S. Jordax ; C. H. 

Gilbert. (P. 1831) 467 

scientific expedition to, report addressed to Emperor of France by Minister 

ofPnblicIustrnctiou. (R. 1864) 188 

southwestern, birds of, collected by F. E. Sumichrast — G. N. Lawrence 295 

Vera Cruz, account of antiquities in — H. FixCK. (R. 1870) 244 

Meyenia — 

palmeri from Mexico— E. Potts. (P. 1885) 650 

plumosa from Mexico — E. Potts. (P. 1885) 650 

Miami County, Ohio, earthworks and mounds in— -E. T. WlLrnEiss. (R. 1884). 623, 620 

Mica — 

bedsinAlabama— W. Gesner. (R.1879) 345 

mines, ancient, in North Carolina — C. D. Smith. (R. 1876) 299 

Michigan — 

ancient mining in — C.Whittlesey 155 

Beaver Island, natural history of— J. J. Strang. (R. 1854) 75 

catalogue of rocks, minerals, and ores collected on geological survey in — C. 

T. Jacksox. (R. 1854) -- 75 

characteristics pertaining to ancient man in — II. Gillmax. (R. 1875) .. ."SUS, 393 

Clinton County, ancient mounds in— M. T, Leach. (R. 1834) 620,623 

Islo Royale, Lake Superior, antiquities of— A. C. Davis. (R. 1874) 286 

mound-builders and platycnemism in — H. Gillmax. (R. 1873) 275, 393 

Ogemaw County, ancient forts in— M. T. Leach. (R. 18S4) 620, 623 

Microscope, the. (R. 1860) 147 

Microscopic organisms — 

directions for collecting .1 63 

directions for collecting, preserving, and transporting — A. M. Edwards 366 

notes on new species and localities of — J. W. Bailey 63 

Microscopical — 

examination of Japanese infusorial earths — A. M. Edwards 202 

examination of soundings made by U. S. Coast Survey oif Atlantic coast of 

UnitedStates— J.W.Bailey 20 

observations iu South Carolina, Georgia, and Florida — J. W. Bailey 23 

Middle America — 

birds of— S. F. Baird 181 

birds of, circular for collecting 168 

birds of, notin National Museum — R. Ridgway. (P. 1831) 467 

(explan.ition of term) 181 

Migrat ion, the American — F. vox IIkllwald. ( R. 1866) 214 

Migrations and nesting habits of west coast birds — J. G. COOPER. (P. 1879) 333 

Milan Agricultural Association. Exchange of publications. (R. 1863) 187 

Milky Way, bibliography of works relating to— E. S. IIoldex 311 

Miller, F. Mound in Trumbull county, Ohio. (R. 1877) 323 



CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 779 

Mills, Clark- 
casts of heads of Indian boys and girls at Hampton, Virginia, taken by. 

(P. 1879) ^ 333 

casts of heads of Indian prisoners in Florida taken by, (P. 1878) 332 

Mills Connty, Iowa. Antiquities of— Seth Dean. (R. 1S81) 015,481 

Milwaukee County, Wis. Mounds near National Home — George W. Bakbeu. 

(K. 1861) 481,515 

Miminie, description of— E.EiDG way. (P. 138"2) 518 

Minius gilvns rostratus, new oubspccies, from collection by J. Fj. Benedict and 

•W. Nye— R. Ridgway. (P. 1884) G07 

Minnilns (leythrnrus) nigripinnis, description of— C. IT. Gilbert. (P. 1884).. .. GOT 
Mineral — 

jade, study of— S. Blondel. (R. 1876) 209 

resources of the United States, plan to illustrate the, at the New Orleans 

Exposition in 1881-'85— F. P. Dewey. (P. 1884) 607, 604 

Mineralogical — 

collection, arrangement of— C. U. Shepard. (R. 18G1) , 119 

collection of Yale College, catalogue of meteorites in the — G. J. Brush. (R. 

16(58) 224 

composition of the normal mesozoic diabase upon Atlantic border — G. W. 

Hawes. (P. 1881^ 467 

Mineralogy — 

account of progress in, in 1S79 and 1880— G. W. Hawes. (R. 1880) ....442,428 
account of progress in — E. S. Dana — 

(R. 1882) '. 540,531 

(R. 1883) 593,580 

(R. 1884) 623, G15 

(R. 1885) 649,639 

and lithology of the District of Columbia, notes on— G. P. Merrill. (P. 

1885) 650 

department of, National Museum, report of curator for 1884. (R. 1884, ii) . . 648 
report on department of, National Museum for 1885. — F. M. Clarke. (R. 

1885,11) 654 

Mineral — 

and ores collected on geological survey in Michigan, catalogue of — C. T. 

Jackson. (R. 1854) 75 

and rocks, catalogue of— J. W. Foster. (R. 1854) 75 

and rocks, catalogue of— J. D. Whitney. (R. 1854) - 75 

catalogue of, with their formulas, etc.— T. Egleston 156 

in U. S. National Museum in 1873, list of— F. M. Endlicii. (R. 1873) 275 

in U. S. National Museum in 1879, list of— F. M. Endlicu. (P. 1380) 425 

rocks, ores, and fossils, catalogue of—J. Locke. (R. 1854) 75 

Mines, ancient mica, in North Carolina— C. D. S.mitii. (R. 1876) 299 

Minings — 

ancient, in Lake Superior copper region, circular relative to — J. Henry. 

(R. 1861) 149 

ancient, on shores of Lake Superior— C. Whittlesey 155 

department, Melbourne. Exchange system. (R. 1865) 209 

Minnesota — 

ancient town in, account of — O. H. Kelley. (R. 1363) 187 

Fort Ripley, natural history of country about — J. E. Head. (R. 18.54) 75 

Hennepin County, mounds on Gideon's farm near Excelsior— F. H. Nutter. 

(R. 1879) 345 

Historical Societv. Dakota grammar "1*^ 



780 CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS 

Miunesotu — Continued. 

Lake Pepin and Mississippi Kiver, antii]iiil-i<~s on ])anks of — L. C. Estks. 

(R. 1866) 214 

Red River of the North, etlmology of Indians of— W. H. Garbneii. (R. 

1870) r 244 

Miocene — 

flora of Alaska, contribntions to— L. Lksquereux. (P. 1882) r)lR 

fossils, cheek list of— F. B. Meek 183 

Miscellanea, Miisenm, lahels, etc. — S. F. P)AIKD 164 

Miscellaneous — 

collections, Smithsonian. Catalogue and index of 478 

collections, Smithsonian. Vols, i-xxx 122, 12:5, 124, 12,"'), 158, 169, 191,212, 

213, 250, 273, 274, 312, 314, 315, 322, 33G, 337, 416, 
423, 424, 468, 475, 41)6, 504, 505, 506, 522, 548, 558 
papers relating to anthropology for — 

1381. (R. 1881) 515,481 

1882. (R. 1882) 540,535 

1883. (R. 1883) 593,588 

1884. (R. 1884) 623,620 

1885. (R. IS35) 6.1<.), 64G 

tables— A. GUYOT 153 

Missionary Society, Southern. Yoruba grammar and dictionary 98 

Missions. See American Board of Commissioners. 

Mississipi>i — 

aboriginal lapidary in— C. Rau. (R. 1877) 323,402 

bottom, TJliuois, mounds of the— William McAdams, jr. (R.1802) 535,540 

eastern, collection of tishes from— O. P. Hay. (P. 18^0) 425 

mounds in— S. A. Agxew. (R. 1867) 215 

River and Lake Pei)iii, antiquities on banks of— L. C. Estes. (R. 1866) 214 

River, description of new species of fishes from — T. H. Ueax. (P. 1879) - .. 333 

Valley, Lower, occurrence of striped bass in — T. H. Bean. (P. 186 ! ) 607 

Valley, ancient monuments of— E. G. Squikr ; E. H. Davis 1 

Viilley, mounds of the, animal carvings from — IT. \V. TTkxshaw. (E. 18:0- 

1881) ^ 542 

V.alley, physical geography of — C. Ellet, jr 13 

Washington County, mounds in — J. HoUGir. (R. 1879) 345 

Yazoo County, antiquities of— J. W.C. Smith. (R.1874) 2SG 

Missouri — 

ancient relics in — J, W. Foster. (R. 1863) 187 

autiquitiesin— I. Dille. (R. 1862) 150 

tishes collected in, in August, 1884, list of— 1). S. .Tordan ; S. E. Meek. (P. 

1885) 650 

Kansas City, antiquities of— W. H. R. Lykixs. (R. 1-77) 323 

mounds in Ralls County— Geohge L. Hakdy: Fi£ED. B. Schektz. (R. 

1881) ..-"- ,. 481,515 

New Madrid, earthquake at— T. Dudley. (R. 1858) 109 

Pike County, mounds of— Joseph C. Watkins. ( R. 1 88 1 ) 481 , 515 

prehistoric evidences in— G.C.Broadhead. (R. 1879) 345 

River, ancient e,arth-works on— A. Barraxdt. (R. 1870) 244 

River, lists of birds and mamuuilia of— E. Harris. (R. 1350). 28 

Saint Louis, ancient mound at— T. R, Peale. (R. 1861 ) 149 

Saint Louis, temperature of— A. Fenoler. (R. 1830) 147 

Upper, expedition to Manvaises Terres and— A. Culbkrtsox. (R. 1850) .. 28 

Upper, lists of plants of— T.C. Porter. (R. 1850) 28 

Upper, palaeontology of— F. B. Mekk ; F. V. Haydex 172 

western, exploration of— P. R. Hoy. (R. 1864) 188 



CATALOGUH OF PUBLICATIONS. 781 

Mitchell, A. Antiqiiilics of Florida. (K. 1874) 2Hfi 

Mitchell, H. Mounds in Piko County, 111. (K. 1879) ".'•l.') 

Mitchell, l\. II.; Tcknek, W. \V. \^)c;ibulary ol' the Jai'L!;on of Oregon 60 

Mitchell, S. 8. Fumual sermon on Joseph Henry :;.'>(; 

Mitchell, S. W. — 

Inquiries relative to diseases known as chorea. (R. 1871) 28t) 

Researches upon the venom of the rattlesnake 135 

Mitchell, S. W. ; Keicheui, 10. T. Researches upon tlie venoms of poisonous 

Ker|teuls 647 

Mitchell, S. \V. ; Mouehouse, G. R. Researches ujumi analoniy and ])hysiol 

oi^y of respiration in chelonia 159 

Mitla, drawings of— J. G. .S.vWKixs 8() 

Mitra, lloridana, nevr spc^eies of, from Florida — W. H. Dale. (P. ISS:'.) .. ^>i6 

Mixed races in Liberia— E. I). IjLYDEX. (R. 1870) '241 

Mobile River, sliell-heaps ou— A. S.G.\.i\Es: K. M. Cuxxixchiam. (K.H77)... :'..':> 

Modes of llight in relation to acrouantics— J. B. Pettigrew. (R. 1HU7) 21') 

Moiiu, CiiAKLES. Aboriginal soap-stone (juarry and shell-heaps in Alabama. (R. 

1881) 481, ni5 

MoiGNo, F. N. Accidental or subjective colors. (R. I8()t)) 211 

Molds, paper, instructions for taking— A. P. Niijlack. (P. 183:5) 590 

Molina, L. Costa Rican minister, recommtuidiug Dr. Rerendt. (R. 18(5')) .... 201) 
Mollusca — 

deep-water, taken off Martha's Vineyard— A. E. Verkill. (P. 1882) r)i8 

economic, of the United Statos, at the Loudon Fisheries Exhibition in 1881?, 

catalogue of— F. Winslow M 1,.''JI, 55 1 

from Steam's expedition in Labrador in 1882, catalogue of — K. .T. Bi'sh. 

(P. 188:!) M8 

of northeastern coast of America. I'artsi, ii, iii— A. E. V'eukill. (P. l>7i); 

P. 1880) - ■"'■''■'. 120 

of the Commander Islands, re])ort on — W. 11. Dall. (P. 1-^8.!) (;07 

or shell-fish, and their allies, hectares on— P. P. Carcexteu. (R. I8t>0).l 17, 152 

Mol 111 scan — 

fauna of the Truckee grou[>— C. A. White. (P. 1882) .'18 

forms, new, from the Laramie and Green River groups — C. A. White. (P. 

1882) i^flB 

MoUuscoids of Arctic America — A. E. Verrill :j12 

Mollnsks — 

arrangement of families of — T. (iiLi 227 

bibliography of^T. GiLi -"27 

department of National Museum, repoit of curator for l'^84. (R. 1884, i).. . ()18 
report on Department of Mollnsks, National Museum, for 188.') — W. II. Dall. 

(1887), II) tM4 

eocene, some new species of, from southern Unite(l Sta.tes — A. IIeili'Rix. 

(P. 1880) --• 425 

new forms of, from Alaska— W. II. Dall. (P. 1S7S) :r.2 

of Arctic America — W. H. Dali -542 

of Kerguelen Island— W. H. Dall 2IU 

of the vicinity of San Diego, Cal., and Todos Santos Bay, Lower California, 

notes ou—C. R.Orcutt. (P.lBSo) *'''0 

of western North America— P. P. Carpenter 252 

Mouachus tropicalis, Gray— F. W. TnuE ; F.A.Lucas. (R.1884, i) 048 

Monadnock, iron-clad, deviation of compasses on — W. IIarkne.ss 2:i'.) 

Mongolia, geological researches in— R. Pumpelly...- 202 



782 CATALOGUE Oi' PUBLICATIONS. 

Mouograph of — 

American coibiculadie, recent and fossil — T. Prime 145 

bats of North America — H. Allen 165 

cottoids of North America — C. Girard 30 

Cj'guiuse, outliue of— L. Stejxeger. (P. 1882) 518 

dolichopodidiB — H. LoEW. 171 

ortalidae— H. LoEW 256 

strepomatidae, (American melauiaus) — G. W. Tryon 253 

tipulidaj— C. E. Osten Sackex 219 

wasps— H. DeSaussure 254 

Monographs of diptera of North America — 

Part I— 11. LOE w ; R. Ostex Sacken 141 

Part II— H. Loew ; R. Osten Sackex 171 

Part III— H. LOEW 256 

Part IV— R. OsTKN Sacken 219 

Mouomitra, new generie name for Amitra — G. B. GOODE. (P. 1883) 548 

Montana — 

distribution of forest trees in — W. W. Johnson. (R. 1870) 244 

prehistoric remains in — P. W. NORRis. (R. 187S) 345 

Monterey Bay, California; new fishes from — D. S. Jordan ; C. II. Gilbert. (P. 

1880) 425 

Monument to Joseph Henry, proceedings of Congress relative to 35G 

Monuments — 

aboriginal, of State of New York — E. G. Squier 15 

ancient, of the Mississippi Valley— E. G. Squier ; E. H. Davis . ■. 1 

and anti<iuitieS of Denmark, preservation of — J. J. A. Worsaae. (R. 187D) 345 

Moody, J. D. — Explorations in mounds in Whiteside and La Sallo Counties, 

111. (R. 1881) 51.5,481 

Moon — 

efiect of, on the magnetic force — A. D. Bache 1G2, 175 

effect of, on the weather — J. Henry. (R. 1871) 249 

influence of, on magnetic declination — A. D. Bache 132 

occultations of planets by — See Downes, J. 

Moon-hoax, on the— J. Henry. (R. 1873) 275 

Moore, M. A. Fish mortality in the Gulf of Mexico. (P. 1881) 4(57 

Moore, T., and others. Destruction of fish near the Tortugas. (P. 1878) 332 

Morehouse, G. R. ; Mitchell, S. W. Anatomy and physiology of respiration 

in chelonia 159 

Moose district, Hudson Bay Company, birds of, list of the — L. M. Turner. (P. 

1385) 650 

MoRFiT, C. ; Booth, J. C. Recent improvements in chemical arts 27 

Morgan, L. H.— 

Circular in reference to degrees of relationship among different nations 138 

Proposed ethnological map of North America. (R. 1861; 149 

Systems of consanguinity and affinity of the human family 218 

Circular to diplomatic agents by State Department relative to research of. 138 

MORIN, A. — Warming and ventilating buildings. Parts i, ii. (R. 1873; R. 

1874) 275,286,439 

Morlot, a. — 

Abstract of Dr. Keller's report on lacustrian settlements in Switzerland. 

(R. 1863) 187 

Archaeology. (R. 1861) 149 

General views on archaeology. (R. 1860) 147 

Lecture on study of high antiquity in Europe. (R. 1862; R.1864) 150,188 



CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 783 

Morris, J. G.— 

C.a(alo;j;ue of dcscii bed lopiduptora of North America 118 

Lecture ou insect iustiiicts and transfornuxtions. (11. 1835) 77 

Lecture ou natural history as applied to farmiui; and gardeninj;. (R. 1S55) 77 

Synopsis of described Icpidoptera 133 

.M():;';is, O.W.; Henuy, .J. Quantity of rain at diftercnt heights. (R.185.t)... 77 
Morse, S. F. B.— 

Account of origin and development of iuventiou of — W.B.Taylor. (R. 

1878) 341,405 

communication relative to a publication of — J. Henry. (R. 1857). ..107, 11.3, 229 
Mortality — 

of fishes in Gulf of Mexico — 

E. Ingersoll. ( P. 1881) 467 

J. P. Jeffersox. (P.1878) 332 

S.n.JoHXsox. (P.18S1) 4G7 

M.A.MooRE. (P. 18S1) 4G7 

S.T.Walker. (P.ISSG) 548 

of fishes in vicinity of 'IVirtuga's -.1. P. Jeffersox; T. Moori:; J. Y. Por- 
ter. {P.1878) 332 

tables of, methods of interpolation applied to graduation of— E. L. Ue For-* 

EST. (R. 1871; R. 1873) 249,275 

MORTiLLET, G. DE ; Chaxtre, E. International code of symbols for charts of 

prehistoric archeology. (R. 1875) 298 

Morto.v, 8. G., and others. On publication of Sfiuier and Davis's aucieut monu- 
ments. (R.1374) H 

Mortuary customs of North America ludians— H. C. Yarrow. (E. 1879-'80) 47G 

Mosasanrns and the three allied genera, 27o/codMS, Conosaurus, and A m^horosteus, 

memoir ou — R. W. Gihui.s - 14 

Mosaic, antique Roman, from Carthage — G. IT. Heap. (P. 1883) 548 

Motacilla — 

amurensis, Seebohm, probable identity with iU". ocH/arts, Swinhoe — R. RiDG- 

way. (P. 1883) 548 

blakistoui, Seebohm, remarks on— R. Ridgway. (P. 1883) 543 

ocularis, Swinhoe, probably identical with M. amurensis, Seebohm— R. Ridg- 
way. (P. 1883) 548 

Motion — 

planetary, general integrals of — 8. Newcomb 281 

rotary, problems of, presented by gyroscope, precession of equinoxes, and 

pendulum — J. G. Barxapj) 240 

MOTSCHULSKY, V. Ou meaus of destroying tho grasshopper. (R. 1853) 109 

MouLTOX, M. W. Mounds in Delaware County, Iowa. (R. 1877) 323 

Moths, directions for collecting, preserving, and transporting — C. H. Ferxald. 

(P. 1884) 607,600 

Mound — 

cxi)loration, directions for— C. Thomas. (P. 1384) 607,601 

Glidwell, Franklin County, Ind.— Dr. G. W. HOMSHER. (R. 13S2) 535,540 

uear Braceville, Trumbull County, Ohio— S. N. Luther. (R. 1881) 431,515 

The Great, on the Etowah River, Georgia— Charles Whittlesey. (R. 

1881) 481,515 

Mouud in — 

Dakota, Lincoln County — A. Barraxot. (R. 1372) 271 

Florida, colored bead from — A. M. Harrisox. (R. 1377) 323 

gold ornament from— C. Rau. (R. 1877) 323, 403, 440 

Indiana— W. Pidgeox. (R. 1867) 215 

Kentucky, near Lexington — R.Peter. (R. 1871) 249 



784 CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 

Mound in — Continued. 

Missouri, Saint Louis— T. R. Pkai.k. (R.ldGl) 149 

Olaio, fragment of cloth from, report on— J. G. Hunt. (P. 1883) 548 

Trumbull County — F. Milleu. (R. 1877) 323 

Pennsylvania, v.estern — W. M. Taylou. (R. 1877) ;]2?> 

Tennessee, near Chattanooga — M. C. Read. (R. 1807) SilT) 

east— A. F. Danilskx. (R. 1803).-. 187 

Wisconsin— C. K. Dkax. (R. 1872) 271 

Grant County— J. Warner.- (R. 1872) 271 

Mound-builders — 

and platycuemism in Michigan- II. Gillman. (R. 1873) 275, 393 

in Rock River Valley, Illiuois—J. Shaw. (R.1877) 323 

of Wisconsin, mounds and osteology of — J. N. De Hart. (R. 1877) 323 

Mounds — 

ancient, in Clinton Couuty, Mich.— M. T. Leach. (R. 1884) 620,023 

and earthworks in Ashlaiul County, Ohio— H. B. Case. (R. 1881) 481,515 

and earthworks iu Vanderburg County, Ind, — Floyd Stinsox. (R. 1881) .481 , 515 
and osteology of the mound-builders of Wisconsin — J. N. De Hart, (R. 

1877)! 323 

m\d shell heaps on tho west coast of Florida— S. T. Walker. (R. 1833). 588, 593 
at Snake Den, Salem, Henry County, Iowa — W. V. Baxta ; John Garret- 
son. (R. 1881) [ 481,515 

earthworks and, in Munr.i County, Ohio— E. T. Wiltiiciss. (R. 1884) ..620,023 

shell hcaprt and, iu Florida— James Siiici'ard. (R. 1S85) 645,049 

of the Jlisrtissippi Y.iU^y, animal carvings iVom the — II.W. IIexsiiaw. (E. 

1880-'81) 542 

Flyiin's Creek, Jackson Connly, Teiin.— Joshua Haite, sr. (R. 1881) 481,515 

signal, of Butler County, Ohio— J. P. MacLean. (R.1S32).. 535,540 

stono, of liaiiipshiro County, W. Va. — L. A. Kexgla. (R. 1883) 588,593 

near E<lwardsville, Wyandotte County, Kans.— E. F. Serviss. (R. 1881) . .481, 515 

near tho Xalional Horn-, Wisconsin— George AY. Barber. (R. 1881) 481,515 

of the Missisaippi Bottom, Illinois— William McAdams, Jr. (R. 1832).. 535, 540 
Mounds iu — 

Alabama, Jefferson County- W. Ges.ner. (R. 1831) 481, 515 

Arkansas, Independence County — A. JoxES. (R. 1881) 481,515 

Dakota, Fort Wads worth— A. J. Comfort. ( ii. 187 1 ) 249 

Florida — 

Alacuha County— J. Bell. (R. 1881) 481,515 

southern, explorations among — S. T. W.VLiCEit. (R. 1879) 345 

Georgia — 

Bartow County — M. F. Stephkxsox. ( R. 187:2) 271 

Berrien County— AV. J. Taylor. (R. 1881 ; R. 1883) 4»1, 515, 588, 593 

M. F. Stephexsox. (K. 1370) 244 

Mcintosh and Early Conuties—W\ McKinley. (R. 1872) 271 

Putnam County- B. W. Kkxt. (R. 1882) 535,540 

Illinois — 

Bureau County— A. S. Tiff.vxy. (Ii. 1881) 481, 515 

Carroll Countj — J. M. Williamsox. (R. 1832) 540 

Kenry and Stark Counties. T. jM. Shallexberger. (R. 1881) 4al,515 

Mercer County— T. McWhorter. (R, 1874) 286 

near Albany, skuU and hones, from— R. J. Farquharsox. (K. 1874) 286 

Pike County— B. Mitchell. (R. 1879) 345 

Rock Island County— T. Thompson. (R. 1879) 345 

Sangamon County— J. Wickersham. (R. 1883) 588,593 

Spoon River Valley— W. H. Adams, (R. 1879 ; R. 1881 ; R. 1833) 345, 

461,515,588,593 



CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 785 

Mounds in ■ Contiuucd. 

Illinois — 

Union County, near Anna— T. M. Pkriune. (R. 1872) 271 

Whitositles and La Sallo Connties— J. D. Moody. (R. 1881) 481,515 

Indiana — 

Franklin County— K. li. Quick. (R. 187D) 345 

Rush County— F. Jackmax. (R. 187'J) 345 

Iowa — 

Dclawi^ro County— M. W. Moultox. (R. 1877) 323 

Des Moines Valley, notes on — S. B. EvAXS. (R. 1871)) 345 

Henry Couuty—G. C. Vax Aj.i.r.x. (R. 1882) 540 

Muscatine County— T. TiiOMi'Sox. (R. 1879) 345 

Kentucky — 

Exploration of— S. S. Lyox. ( R. 1870) 244 

Barren and Allen Connties — R. B. Evaxs. (R. 1831) 181,515 

Boyle and Mercer Counties— W. M. Lixxey. (R. 1881) 481,515 

R. Peter. (R, 1872) 271 

Union County, exploration of— S. S. Lyox. (R. 1870) 244 

Louisiana — 

S. H. LocKExr. (R. 1872) 271 

Morehouse Parisli—B. H. Brodxax. (R. 1879) 315 

Minnesota, Hennepin Couuty, on Gideon's farm — F. H. Nutter. (R. 1879).. 345 

Mississippi — 

S. A. Agxew. (R. 1867) 215 

Washinj^ton County— J. HouGli. (R. 1879) 315 

Missouri — 

Pike Couuty— J. C. Watkixs. (R. 1881) 481,515 

RallsCounty— G. L. Hard; F. B. Siieetz. (R. 1861) 481,515 

New Brunswick and New England, notes on — S. F. Baird. (P. 1881) 4G7 

Ohio- 
Butler County— J. P. MacLeax. (R. 1SS3) 588, 593 

Trnnibnll County— F. Miller. (R. 1877) 323 

Pennsylvania (western)— W. M. Taylor. (R. Is77) 323 

Tennessee— J. Joxes 259 

Wisconsin — 

Grant Couuty— M. Stroxo. (R. 1879) 299 

Winnebago Couuty — T. Armstroxg. (R. 1879) 345 

Mountain — 

Black, North Carolina, topography of— T. L. Clixgmax. (R. 1855) 77 

uieasurenieuts — A. Guy'ot. (R. 1862) 150 

sheep (Or i's montuna (laJH),uew geographical race of, from Alaska— E. W. 

Nelsox. (P.1884) C')7 

Mountains — 

electric resonance of— H. De Saussure. (R. 1868) 224 

iu Colorado, heights of— G. Exgelmaxx. (R. 1862) 150 

lakes,and the snow-line, Norwegian— 0. E. Dreutzer. (R.1806) 214 

Movement of the stars around a ccjitral point— J. H. Maedler. (R. 1859) 110 

Much, M. Ancient history of North America. (R.1871) 249 

MUDGE, B. F. Account of lightning discharges. (R. 1807) 215 

MtJLLER, Baron vox. Observations ou tcrrestial magnetism iu Mexico 114 

MiJLLER, F. Smithsonian exchanges. (R. 1800) -I'l^ 

^iiilAA'-M, J.— 

Principles of mechanical theory of heat. (R. 1868).. 224 

Report ou recent progress iu physics — electricity. (R. 1856; R. 1857) 91, 107 

Report on recent progress in physics— galvanism. (R. 1855; R. 1857 ; R. 

1858) ! 77,107,109 

a. Mis. 170 50 



786 CATALOGUE OF TUBLICATIONS. 

AIULLEK, J.— Continued. 

Reporb on transactions of Geneva Society of Physics and Natural History, 

June, 1875, to July, 1876. (R. 1877) 323 

Mugilidie, marine, American species of, review of tbe—D. S. Jordan ; J. Swaix. 

(P. ldS4) C07 

Mules in milk— A. DuGES (F. W. True, translator). (P. 1882) 518 

Munida valida, new germs and new species of, from soutli coast of New Eng- 
land, description of— S. I. Smith. (P, 1883) 548 

Munidopsis — 

crassa, new species, from Fisli Commission dredging — S. I. Smith. (P. 

1884) G07 

siiuilis, new species from Fish Commission dredging — S. I. Smith. (P. 

1S84) G07 

Mummy— 

and skulls from Patagonia— A. Reid. (R. 18G'2) 150 

case, Gliddon~C. Pickeuing 208 

Mnra^noid eel {Sidera clilcvastes), from Galapagos Island, description of — D. S. 

Jokdan; C. H. Gilbert. (P. 1883) 543 

Murdoch, J. — 

A study of the Eskimo bows in the National Museum. (R. 1884, ii) 648 

Description of seven new species of Crustacea and one worm from Arctic 
Alaska (P<(H(Zrt?(ts dapifer, Mi/shrai/ii, Acanthozone pohjacaniha, Mclita 
formosa, M. leoni», Dulichia arclica, rohjarlcmlu hazcni, Arcnicola 

(jhicialis, nu. ss.) (P. 1884) 607 

Mnricidea, new species of, from Florida — W. H. Dall. (P. 188:'.) 548 

MuKPHEY, H. C, and others. On publication of Spanish works on New Mexico. 

(R.18j5) 77 

Murray County, Ga. Silver crosses from Indian grave-mound in — Charles C. 

Jones Jr. (R. 1881) 481,515 

Musci of Kerguelen Island — T. 1'. James 2'J4 

Museum — 

at Lausanne, ethnological collections of— F. Troyon. (R. IHCl) 149 

Blackmore, Salisbury, England, notice of. (R. 1888) 224 

British, statistics of— S. F. Baird. (R. 1850)...., '28 

d'llistoiro Naturelle, Paris, notes on typical American fisbes in — D.S.Jor- 
dan. (P. 1879) 333 

Hungarian National. Acknowledgment for birds. (R. 1863) I>i7 

miscellanea — S. F. Baird 164 

of ethnology, Leipsic — A.Schott; O.T.Mason. (R. 1873) 275 

of National University of Greece. Exchange of specimens. (R. 1867) 215 

of Norway, Ethnological— L. K. Daa. (R. 1862) 150 

of Toronto University, objects of. (R. 1865) 209 

of Yale College. List of iishes collected by Prof. Frank II. Bradley — D. S. 

Jordan; C. II. Gilbert. (P. 1882) 518 

on formation ot a — L. Agassiz. (R. 1049) 21 

public, of the Institute of Jamaica, iishes received from, catalogue of— T. II. 

Bean ; H. G. Dresel. (P. 1884) 607 

Smithsonian. <Sfc Museum, U. S. National. 
Museum, U. S. National — 

accessions to, in 1884, list of. (R. 1884, ii) 648 

accessions to, in 188.5, list of. (R. 1885, ii) 654 

acts and resolutions of Congress relative to. Sec Congress, 
additions to, list of. See each annual report. 

bibliography of the. (R. 1884, ii) 648 

bibliography of the. ( R. 1885, ii) 654 

birds of Jliddlo and South America uot in— R. Ridg wa y. (P. 1881) 467 



CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 787 

Museimi, U. S. National — CoiithuK'd. 
bulletius of. Hee lUilIctins. 

catalogue and iiuli'x of this rroccedings aud Biillotiiis of 478 

catalogue of collection of Japanese cotton tiber j)ics(!Mt(Hl to. (P. lii~'l) 4G7 

catalogue of collection of Japanese woods presented to — L. F. Wakd. (P. 

1881) 4i;7 

catalogue of Old World birds in— K. Kidgway. (P. 1881) 407,462 

circular asking coutributious to library of. (P. 1881) 4()7,458 

circulars of. See Circulars. 

classitication of collections of-G. B. Goodk. (P. 1881) 4(;7,457 

classification of collections of, to illustrate taxidcsrniy — \V. T. Hoknadav. 

(P. 18S1) 4(;7,456 

collections furnished to, by explorations, 1838 to 1877 — .S. V. I!aii:i). {\i. 

1877) - :5-i:5 

contributions to, and their acknowledgment. (P. 1881) !()7, 473 

curators of, reports for 1884. (K. 1884, ii) l)4'S 

described specii'neus of parasitic cupcjtoda in, annotated list of— Iv. Ivatiiul'n. 

(P. 1884) (507 

directory of oOicers, collaborators, and employes of 4()(j 

distribution by, of nuiriue invertebrates— R. Katiiuux. (P. 1881).. 4G7, 465, 471 
establishment and officers of Smithsonian Institution and. (P. 1881). -.4(;7, 449 
four uew species of Cypriiiida: in, descriiition of — D. S. Jouoax; S. E. Mkkk. 

(P. 1884) '*"~ 

letters on work of-B. PiiiLLii'S. (P.1881) 407,454 

list of publications of. (P. 18il) 407,478,474 

materia mtidica collection in, classification of— J. M. Flint. (P. 188:;). .048, 539 
materia njedica collect ion in, classification of the — J. M. Flixt; H. (i. Bi:vKi{. 

(P. 1885) Or)0,622 

memorial of liegents of Smithsonian Instiiutiou to Congress asking appro- 
priations for. (K. 1807) 215, 329 

memorial to Congress in behalf of Regeuts of Smitlisonian Institution for 

uew building for— G. Baxckoft. (R.187G) .21)9,321) 

uew species of PaxiUchlhiis in, description of — D. S. Jouhan. (P. \^>\) ti07 

organization aud objects of— G. B. Goudk. (P. 1881) :459,407 

outline of scheme of classitication for collections in- G. B. Goouh. (P. 

1881) 457,407 

plan of organization and regulations of— G. B. Goodk. (P. 1881) 407,445 

plans for installation of collections in— G. B. Goode. (P. 1881) 407, 472 

proceedings in Congress relative to 328 

Proceedings of. Vols, i-iv, ie78-1881 332, 333, 425, 467 

Proceedings tor — 

1882, Vol. V 518 

1883, Vol. VI 548 

1884, Vol. VII 607 

1885, Vol. VIII 650 

report of the Assistant Director for — 

1881 .)i:.,510 

1882 540,524 

1883 593,587 

1884 (il« 

1885 <'^^ 

report of Committee of Regents on— A. Gray; H. Coitkk. (Ii. 1874) 280 

report of Connnittee of IJegents on— A. Gray : A. A. Sahcknt ; II. Ci.y.meu. 

(R. 1870) • 299 

report of Building Commission of, for 1881. (R. 18S1) 515,491 



788 CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 

Museum, U. S. National — Coiitiuucd. 

report on, and statistics of British Museum — S. F. Baird. (R. 1850) 28 

reports of Building Commission of, for 1879, 1880. (R. 1879; R. 1880.). 345, 409, 

442, 434 

reports on, 1853-1867, 1873-1877— S. F. Baird. (R. 1853-1867, 1873-1877).. 67, 75, 

77, 91, 107, 109, 110, 147, 149, 150, 187, 188, 209, 214, 215, 275, 286, 298, 299, 323 

Muskrat, the Florida {Neofiher alUni)—Y. W. True. (R. 1884, ii) 648 

Myadestes ohscurus, description of two new races of— L. Stejxeger. (P. 188L) 467 

Myadestes, West Indian, synopsis of— L. Stejxeger. (P. 1882) 518 

Mycteroperca — 

bonaci var. xanthosticta, var. nov.— D. S. Jordan; J. Swain. (P. 1884).. G07 

falcata var. pheuax, var. iiov,— D. S. Jordan; J. Swain. (P. 1884) 607 

Myctophnm crenulare — 

description of— T. H. Bean. (P. 1881) 467 

from Santa Barbara channel, California, description of— D. S. Jordan; C. 

II. Gilbert. (P. 1880) 425 

Myliobatis goodei, description of— S. Garmen. (P. 1885) 650 

Myological specimens, rapid preparation of — F. Plateau. (P. 1881) 467 

Myriapods — 

list of North American species of, belonging to family of Lysiopctalidw — ^^J. 

A. Ryder. (P. 1880) 425 

phalangidie, etc., instructions for collecting — H. C. Wood. (R. 1866) 214 

Myriolepis zonifer, a new chiroid fish from Monterey Bay, California, descrip- 
tion of— W. N. LOCKINGTON. (P. 1880) 425 

Myrophis vafer, description of— D. S. Jordan; C. H. Gilbert. (P. 1882) 518 

Mysis rayii, new species from Arctic Alaska, description of— J. Murdoch. (P. 

1831) 607 

Mythology of North American Indians- J. W. Powell. (E. 1879-80) 476 

Myths- 
Indian. (E. 1879-'80) 476 

of the Iroquois— E. A. Smith. (E. 18S0-'81) 542 

Myxinidif, notes on— F. Gill. (P. 1882) 518 

Myzonts, notes on— T. Gill. (P. 1882) 518 

N. 

Naill, D. W. Dispersion of a cloud by electrical discharge. (R. 1858) 109 

Names, generic, ornithological, notes on some apparently preoccupied — L. Stej- 

NKGER. (P. Ib85) 650 

Naples — 

Illinois, aboriginal remains near— John G. Henderson. (R. 1882) 535,540 

Italy, Royal institute for encouragement of natural, economical, and tech- 
nological sciences. Prize questions. (R. 1873) 275 

Narcine umbrosa, new sijecies, description of — D. S. Jordan. (P. 1884) 607 

Narrative of the Uassler expedition— L. Agassiz. (R. 1872) 271,329 

Nashville, Ga., new species of Zyfjonectea zonifer from, description of— D. S. Jor- 
dan; S. E. Meek. (P. 1884) 607 

National — 

Academy of Sciences, bequest to— A. D. Baciie. (R. 1872) 271,329 

Home, Wisconsin, mounds near— George W. Barber, (R. 1881) 481, 515 

library, on a— W. S. Jevons. (R. 1873) 275 

Museum. See Museum, U. S. National. 
Native trees of the Lower Wabash and White River valleys, notes on— R. IIidg- 

WAY. (P. 1882) 518 

Natural history — 

applied to farming and gardening, lecture ou— J. G. Morkis. (R, 1855). ., 77 



CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 789 

Natural history — Continued. 

l)ibliograpliy of American — C. Gii'.aud 48 

directions lor collecting, preserving-, and transporting specimens of — S. F. 

liAlKI). (K. iHaliJ 1)1,34 

explorations in, in tiio United States, 1S51 — 8. F. 15aiui>. (K. 1S51) 51 

of Arctic America — L. KuMi.iEX 342 

of Beaver Island, Jlicliigan— J. J. Strang. (E. lfco4) Tf) 

Bermudas, contribiitiiuis to tlie— J. M. Joxk.s; G. B. Goode 495, .')(;;}, oli 1,51)3, 

5l)(i, 5G7, GGf, 5G9 
Carolina, Florida, and tiie BaLania Islands, Catesby's, ligures of lishes in, 

identification of— D. S. Joiidax. (P. 1884) GOT 

Commander Islands, notes on the — L. Stejxic(JKi:. (P. 188o) 548 

of country about Fort Kipley, Minn. — J. E. Head. (R. 18.j4) 75 

of Fanning Islands — T. II. Stueets :503 

of fresb-water fishes of North America — C. GiiiAitD 30 

of Hawaiian Islands, etc. — T. J I. Stueets 303 

of Kerguelen Island — J. H. Kidder and others 294 

of Labrador, notes on the — \V. A. Steau.ns. (P. 188:j) 548 

of Lower California — T. H. Streets oOl? 

of organi;a'(^ bodies— E. J. Marey. (K. 18G7) 215 

of Pacitic Islands— W. 11. Pease. (K. 18!;->) 1.50 

suggestions relative, to investigations in, in linssian America — S. F. Baij;d. 207 
Society. See Genev.i. 

Natural method, the Jussieus and the — M. Flourexs. (K. 18G7) 215 

Naturalists — 

American, Bibliographies of — 

I. S.F. Baird— G, B. Goode 508 

II. Isaac Lea — N. P. Scuddkr 570 

III. F. B. Meek, C. A. White, C. I). Walcott— J. B. Marcou 625 

generic names of animals employed by— S. II. Scudder 470 

Nature — See Constants of Nature. 

and art, on tables of the constants of^C. BARRAciE. (R. 185G) lU 

and mechanism of fever. Toner lecture No. iv — II. C. Wood 282 

and origin of force^-W. B. Taylor. (R. 1870) 241,375 

of reparatory inflammation in arteries after ligature, foner lecture No. 

VII — E. O. SlIAKESl'EARE 321 

Navajo — 

Indians, language of, said to resend)lc Welsh— S. Y. McMasters. (R. 

1865) 209 

Indians, sketch of tho—J. Lettermax. (R. 1855) 77 

silversmiths— AV. Matthews. (E. 1880-'81) 542 

weavers— AV. MATTiii:w8. (E. 1881-82) G3I 

Naval — 

architecture section, National Museum, report of curator for 1884. (R. 

1884,11) G48 

officers, authority to, to receive and transmit specimens to Smithsonian 34 

Navigation of Ohio and other rivers, improvement of — C. Eeeet 13 

Navy Department, authority given by, to naval ofiicers to receive and transmit 

specimens to the Smithsonian Institution 34 

Neah Bay, Washington Territory, description of two new species of fishes from — 

D. S. Jordax; C. H. CtILRERT. (p. 1880) 425 

Nebraska — 

ancient faun?, of — S. Leidy 58 

paheontology of— F. B. Meek; F. V. Haydex 172 

report on fossils from — J. Lkidy. (R. 1851) 51 



790 CATALOGUE OP PUBLICATIONS. 

Nebraska — CoiitimiecT. 

southwestern, <U'i)osits of volcanic dust and sand in — C P. Merrill. (P. 

1885) 650 

NeljnL-e — 

index-catalogue of hooks relative to— E. S. IIoldex 311 

researches relative to the — Professor Gautier. (R. 1863) 187 

Nebular hypothesis, bibliography of the — E. S. Holden 311 

Neglected names of Lac6pede— D. S. Jordan; C. II. Gilbert. (P. l-^S-i) 518 

Nelson, E. W. — 

A new geographical race of the mountain sheep {Oris montana dalli, var. 

nov.) from Alaska. (P. 1884) 607 

on the source of the Jadeite implements of the Alaskan Innuits. (P. 1883). 548 

Nematuda of northeast coast of North America— A. E. Verrill. (P. 1879) 333 

Neniertiua of northeast coast of America — A. E. Verrill. (P. 1879) . 333 

Nemichthoid eels, diagnosis of new genera of — T. Gill; J. A. Eyder. (P. 

1883) ." 548 

Ncmichthys avocetta, new species of Nemiclithys, de8crii)tiou of — D. S. Jor- 
dan; C. H. Gilbert. (P. 1880) 425 

Neobythites gillii, description of— G. B. Goode; T. H. Bean. (P. 1885) 650 

Neofiber alleni, the Florida muskrat— F. W. True. (R. 1884, ii)..* 648 

Neptune — 

ephemerides of, 1818, 1846-'49, 1850, 1851, 1852— S. C. Walker 4, 5, 6, 7, 24 

history of discovery of— B. A. Gould 18 

investigation of orbit of, with tables of its motion — S. Newcomb 199 

researches relative to — S. C. Walker 3 

secular variations of elements of orbit of — J.N. Stockwell 232 

Nereis-Boreali-Americana — W. 11. Harvey: 

Part I. Mela)iO!!:pirmca' 32 

Part II. lUiodospcrmecv 43 

Part III. Chlorospermea'. 95 

Parts I, II, III, comjdete 96 

Neritidai, fresh-water — W. G. Binney 144 

Nerve, polarized, effect of irritation of— B. F. Lautenbacii. (R. 1878) .. .. 341, 411 

Nervous system of liana i)i2)icns, anatomy of — J. Wyman 45 

Nests — 

and eggs of American birds, instructions for collecting — S. F. Baird. (R. 

18.58) 109,139 

and eggs of the eight North American species of enipidonaces — T. M. 

Brewer. (P. 1879) 333 

instructions for collecting and preserving — T. M. Brewer 139 

of west coast birds —J. G. Cooper. (P. 1879) 333 

Netherl.inds, the Royal Academy of. Prize questions. (R. 1861) 149 

Neuchatel, lake of, palalittcs or lacustrian constructions of — E. Desor. (R. 

1805) 209,360 

Neuroptera — 

instructions for collecting— P. R. Uiiler. (R. 1858) 109 

North American, synopsis of— H. Hagen. (R. 1861) 149,134 

of Arctic America — S. H. Scudder 342 

of North America, synopsis of — H. Hagen 134 

of North America, synopsis of — P. R. Uiiler • 134 

pseudo-, of Kerguelen Island — H. A. Hagen 294 

Nevada, western. Centennial mission to Indians of — S. Powers. (R. 1870) 299 

Newberry, J. S. Brief descriptions of fossil plants, chiefly Tertiary, from west- 
ern North America. (P. 1882) ." 518 



CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 791 

New Brunswick — 

Bay of Faiidy, marine in vcrfi'lirata of region :il)0iit:. nioiuh of — W. SriMi'- 

KON 50 

shell licaps in— J. Fowi.kr. (R. 1H70) 244 

shell monnds of— S. F. Baiud. (P. \Sril) 4(;7 

St. George, sculptni-ed stone found in J. Ali.kn' Jack. (R. 1881) 431,515 

New England — 

Crustacea dredged off south coast of— S. I. Smith. (P. 1^80) 425 

fishes from south coast of, descriptions of new genera atnl species of — G. B. 

GOODE. (P. 1880) 4-25 

frigate mackerel {Auxis liwhvi) on coast of — G. B. Goodk. (P. ISiO) 425 

geology of— E. Hitchcock 90 

marine invertebrata from, distributed by U. S. Fish Connnission — A. E. 

Verrill ; R. Ratiibcx. (P. 1879) ;!:B 

marine invertebrates from, distributed by U. S. National Museum — R. Ratii- 

Bux. (P. 1881) 1(57, 465,471 

mollusca added to fauna of— A. E. Verkili-. ( P. 1880) 425 

slicU mounds on coast of— S. F. Baird. (P. 1881) 4()7 

south coast of, anomura and brachyiira of, preliminary report on — S. 1. 

Smith. (P. iss:',) 548 

New Harmony, lud., account of tornado near, April 30, 18.')2 — J. Ciiaitel- 

SMITII 59 

New Havex JouKXAi.. Account of lightning discharges. (R. 1807) 215 

New Jersey — 

artificial shell deposits in— C. Rau. (R. 18(54) 188,410, 362 

fishes ou the coast of Long Island and — S. F. Baikd. (R. 185 !) 75, 348 

Historical Society, address of Professor Henry before the E 

stone age in— C. C. Abijott. ( R. 1875) 208, 394 

New Madrid, Mo., earthquake at— T. Drui.KY. (R. 1858) 109 

New Mexico — 

account of Lindheimcr's, Fendler's, and Wright's l)otanical exi)lorations in— 

A. Gray. (R. 1849) 21 

antiquities in -W. B. Lyox. (R. 1871) 249 

collections from, illustrated catalogues of— .7. Stkvexsox. (E. 1880-'81) .. 542 

(E. 1881-'82) (5:51 

communications relative to publication of Spanish worivson — Iv Robixso.x ; 
II. E. Ludewig; E. G. Squier ; H. C. Murphey; W. B. Hodgsox ; 
W. Irvixg; W. H. Prescott; J. Sparks; G. Baxcroft; F. L. 

Hawks. (R. 1855) 77 

description of new cretaceous Pinna from — A. Warn;. (P. I8H0) 425 

diary of excursion in— J. H. Carletox. (R. 1854) ''5 

eastern, coleojttera of Kansas and — J. L. Le Coxte 126 

new species of field-sparrow, spizcUa worfheni, from — R. Ridgwav. (P. 1884). (507 

notes ou the history and cliuiat(>, of— T. A. McParlix. (R. 1877) :{2:!, 396 

plants of, collected by C. Wright. Parts I, il— A. Gray 22,42 

report of explorations in Arizona and— J. Stkvkxsox. (R. 1880) 442 

New Orleans, La. — 

fishes collected in vicinity of, by Dr. R. W. Shufeldt, list of— D. S. Jordax. 

(P. 1884) 007 

insects collected in vicinity of, in 1882 and 18S:{, ol)servations on — R. W. 

Shufeldt. (P. 1884) C07 

New River Mounds, Berrien County, (jla.— Wh.i.iam .1. Taylor. (R. 1881)... 481,515 
New York — 

aboriginal monuments of — E. (i. Sqt'Ier 15 

Chautauqua County— James Steward. (R. 1881) 481,515 

Clinton, Hamilton College. Exchange of specimens. (R. 1801) 149 



71j2 catalogue of publications. 

New York — Continuecl. 

fishes of— T. Gill. (R. 185G) 9i 

Fishkill, deposit of arrow-lieatls near — E. M. Siiepard. (R. liS77) 32:5 

New York, explosion of niter in, July, 1845 — R. Hake 17 

Onondaga and adjoining counties, antiquities of — W. M. Beaucuamp. (R. 

1881) 481,515 

Olreans County, antiquities of— F. II. CusiiiXG. (R. 1874) 28G 

perforated stone tablet from— William Wallace Tookek. (R. 1881). ..481,515 

Poughkeepsie, remains in— Hexky Booth. (R. 1883) r 88, .'>93 

Scboliarie, Indian relics from— F. D. Andrews. (R. 1879) ;]45 

Tompkins County, ancient fort aud l)nrial ground in — D. Tkowhijidge. (R. 

1863) 187 

Universityof State of, regents of. Acknowledgment of specimens. (R. ]8t>5) 209 
Newberry, J. S. Description of fossil plants from Chinese coal-hearing rocks. 202 
Newcastle, Pa., account of old Indian village near. — E. M. McConnell. (R. 

1871) 249 

Newcomc, S. — 

General integrals of planetary motion 281 

Investigation of orbit of Neptune, with tables of its motion 199 

Investigation of orbit of Uranus, with tables of its motion 2G2 

Memorial address on Joseph Henry 351) 

Newcomb S., and others. Scientific instructious to Captain Hall. (R. 1871) .. 249 
Newfoundland, new species of fishes from Grand Banks of — G. B. Goode. (P. 

1880) 425 

Newton, A.— 

Suggestions for forming collections of birds' eggs 139 

Suggestions for saving parts of skeletons of birds. (R. 1860. ) 147 

Newton, H. A. Metric system of weights and measures, with tables. (R. 

1865) 209,371 

Nicaragua — 

antiquities of— E. G. Squier. (R. 1850) : 28 

archajological researches in — J. F. Bransford 000,333 

birds from, on a collection of— C. C. Nutting. (P. 1883) 548 

eruption of volcano in — A.B.Dickinson. (R. 1867) , 215 

Ometepe, antiquities from — C. C. Nutting. (R. 1883) 588,593 

Nichols, Lieut. H. E. — 

collection of fishes made in 1882 and 1883 in Alaska and British Columbia, 

notes ou—T. H. Bean. (P. 1833) 548 

list of fishes collected by, in Gulf of California and on west coast of Lower 

California— D, S. Jordan ; C.H.Gilbert. (P. 1881) 407 

notes on fishes collected by, in British Columbia and southern Alaska — T. 

H. Bean. (P. 1881) 407 

notes on fishes collected by, on west coast of Mexico — D. S. Jordan ; C. H. 

Gilbert. (P. 1881) 407 

NiCKLES, F. J. Scientific Congress of Carlsruhe, 1858. (R. 1800) 147 

Nile, explorations of the— C. Hale. (R. 1805) 209 

Niter, memoir on explosiveness of — R. Hare 17 

Nitrification— B. F. Ckaig. (R. 1801) 1 19 

Nitrogen bodies of modern chemistry — Profiissor Kletzixsky. (R. 1872) 271 

Nocomis hyostomus, new species, from White River, Indiana, description of — C. 

IL Gilbert. (P, 1884) - 007 

Nocturnus, genus, review of the — J.Swain; G. B. Kalb. (P. 1882) 518 

Nodules, black, in Maine granite- G. P. Merrill. (P. 1833) 548 

Nomenclator zoologicus. Alphabetical list of generic names employed by nat- 
uralists. Nomcuclatureof— Part I— S. H. Soudder 470 

certain North American birds, revisions of— R. Ridgway. (P. 1880) 425 



CATALOfUIE OF PUBLICATIONS. 793 

Nomenclator zoologiciis.etc.-Contiuuea. n u f.mrRT (V 

certain North American lishc, noteson-D. S. Jc)KI>ax : C. H. Gilbkri.^ (P. ^^^^ 

1^^"') [[...,.. 347 

clonds ^.22 

North American birds-K. Kidgway '\y'^y,^l M a 

the sonus OpUichlhys-Y). S. .To.u>an ; C. H. (Jn-UKirr. (1 . l^^Z) -1^ 

the Xiphilds-T. Gill. (P. ISS'i) 7,r;L-a> '345 

NORRIS, P. W. Prehistoric remains m Montana. (Iv. iH/j; 

North America— , ^ •. • »• 164 

abbreviations of names of States and Torntor.e.s ot . - - - • - - 

aborigines of, basket work of the-0. T. Masox. (K. lho4. ii) <^»^ 

al-a3 of, fresh-water, history of-H. C. Wood, Jr -^ 

alga, of, marine-^Ve\\^ H.Harvey. ...271,1.10,385 

ancient aborigimd trade in— C. Kai. (K. l^/.-j ^^^^ 

ancient history of- M. Much. (K. 1^71) ~,^j 

archajoloixy— .!• L>^'15I50CK. (11. lc(;2) .^^^ 

atlas of, phys cal, propos.ul-G. Gnu'.s. ( K. 1H(.(.) ^^^ 

batrachia and reptiles of, check-list of-E. D. Coi-i. - ■ • 

batrachia and reptilia of, check list of-H. C. Yaup.ow -.-^-^^^ -^^ 

bats of, monograph of— H. Allkn 

birds of — ,r. iojin 4(\7 

added by L. Belding to fauna of-R. Ridgway. ( P. IHSl) ^^Qg 3_o8 

■ catalogue of— S. F. Baiud ^^^ ^^^, 

catalogue of— R . Ri dgw ay . ( P. irisO ) ^. - - - -^ ' ^^^^ 

description of some uew— K. Ridgway. (P. IHri) '^^^ _ 

desiderata among-R. Ridgway. ( P. Ir'H 1) ^^^ 

instructions for collecting nests and eggs ot ^^^ 

nomenclature and catalogue of— R Riugv/ay ^^^ 

review of. Part i-S. F. Baikd ---^-- ^..^^ 

some emended names of— R. Rii>gvsay. (P. If "5.)) ^^^ 

botany of, bibliographical index to-S. Watsox 

coleoptera of — ^gg 265 

classification of. Parts i, ii-J. L. Le Coxte^ ' ^^^ 

classification of thc-J. L. Le Coxte; G. H. Houx . _^^^ 

list of— J. L. Le Coxte _ "_ ,g^ 

new species of. Parts i, ii-J. L. Le Coxte ;-•■■--.■•■' ,^,, ' "^ 

combined meteorological system for, report of Cmmm. tee of Ameru.au As.,- _ ^ 

ciation for Advancement of Science on. (k. L •>!) — _^^^ 

conchology of, bibliography of. Part i, n^-W. G. IUxney -- - _ 

continent of,physicial geography <.1W. Fkokuk. (K. ';"^ ;-;--■ -"^j^;;^;; 
contributions to natural history of fiesh-water bshes oi. r ,ut i. Mono ^^ 

graphof cottoids— C.GiKAK!) ' ^^^ 270 

diptera of, catalogu.. of-C. R. <Jsikx .<ackkx ... - - - - - - _ - -_ ■ _ -__ ' 

diptera of, monographs of-H.LoEW; R.Ostex Sacke.. .... 141, 171, 219. 2^^_^ 

duck new to fauna of-R. Ridgway. (P. Ib'"^ 1 ) • - - -^ ■ ■ - - ■ " " " " ' ^^.. 

explorations on western coast of— W. H. Dale. ( b. l^'-; - ^^ 

extinct sloth tribe of — T. Leidy 

fishes of — ^ ,-, .• T II p.p-w (P 

duplicates ..f, distributed by Smithsonian l,,st.tnt.on-r. II. Le.vx. (i . ^^^^ 

„mn^dat;u;eo0.ot;s'm;^:V. Jimn^x; C. !!. (^n.uKUT. (P.l-S:^)-- ^ 

east coast of, catalogue of— T. GiLi - - • - - - -^ ■ - - - - - ■ "■■;;■"''.' p ^ 

Pacific coast of, duplicates of, distributed u. 1«81-1). S. Jo.-dan , 1 . L. ^^^ 

jouY. (P.1H81) ---- ;",;■;«;;; (;o7 

supplementary notes ou—D. I. .SOUDAN, ^i.ic-t, .1% 492 

synopsis of-D. L Jordan ; C.H.Gil»eut • ' 



794 CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 

Korlli America — Continued. 

forests and trees of, distribution of— J. G. Coopku. (R. 1858) 109, 351 

grasshoppers of, circular relative to history of 163 

Indians of, catalogue of portraits of — J. M. Stanley 33 

ludians of, list of photographic portraits of 216 

Indians of, uses of brain and marrow of animals among — T. R. Peale. (R. 

1870) 2U 

lakes of, fluctuations of level of— C. Whittlesey 119 

lepidoptera of, catalogue of— .T. G. Mokkis . ..^ 118 

lepidoptera of, sj'uopsis of— J. G. MoRiiis 133 

libraries of, public, in, list of— W. J. RllEES 116 

mammals of, catalogue of — S. F. Baikd ^. 105 

map of, ethnological, suggestions relative to — L. II. Morgan. (R. 1801). .. 149 

meteorological stations and observers in. (R. 18G8) 2'24, 373 

rnollusks of western — P. P. Carpenter 252 

myriapods of, belonging to family LysiopetaVula! — J. A. Ryder. (P. 1880). .. 425 

ucurotera of, synopsis of— H. IIagen 134 

orthoptera of, catalogue of— S. H. Scudder 189 

rain and snow fall of, tables of— C. A. ScnoTr 547, 222, 353 

reptiles of, catalogue of — S. F. Baird ; C. Girard 49 

shells of, catalogue of — I.Lea; P. P. Carpenter; W. Stimpsox ; W. G. 

Binnky; T. Prime 128 

shells of, circular in reference to collecting 176 

shells of, land and fresh-water. Parts i-iv— W. G. Binney; T. Bland 143, 

144, 194, 253 

siluridai of, synopsis of— D. S. Jordan 30G 

store implements of— C. Rau. (R. 1872) 271, 382 

stone period of, agricultural implements of* — 'J. Rau. (R. 1863) 187, 382 

Synoptical Flora of— A. Gray 559, 591 

tortoises of, land, of gruus Xerohatcs—F. W. True. (P. 1881) 4G7 

North American — 

and European birds, generic andapcciflc appelation of— L. Stejneger. (P. 

1882) 518 

Ichthyology, contributions to — 

Part I. Review Rafines(iue's memo'rs — D. S. Jordan 305 

Part II. A. Notes on CoUvhv, {aic). />. Synopsis <S'/7»»'((7n'—D. S. Jor- 
dan 306 

Part III. J. Distribution of lishes of Allegheny region (etc.) — D. S. 

Jordan; A. W. Braytox. 7>. Synopsis of family Ca/os/omMa' — D. S. 

Jordan 308 

Oology. Part I. Raptoros and lissirostros — T. M. Brewer 89 

Syrphidic. S. W. WiLLlSTON i;.-^ 

North Carolina — 

ancient mica mines in— C. I). Smith. (R. 187(1) 299 

Beaufort, descrii>tion of new species of hsh (Caranx Bcani) from — D. S. 

Jordan. (P. 1880) 425 

Beaufort, notes on fishes of^D. S. Jordan; C. H. Gilbert. (P. 1878) 332 

Black Mountain, topography of— T. L. Clixgman. (R. 1855) 77 

e.artlHinakesin, in 1874— W. Du Pre; J. IIrxry. (R. 1874) 28G 

French Broad River, EadropteniH auraiiticns \n — T. H. Bean. (P. 1885) G50" 

Lenoir Connty, antiquities in — J. M. Sp.\iniiour. (R. 1871) 249 

Montgomery County, antiquities of— F. J. Kron. (R. 1874) 286 

occurronce of P/(]/ciA' ref/JMS in — T. H. Bean. (P. 1880) 425 

Stanley County, antiquities of— F. J. Kron. (R. 1874) 286 



CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 795 

Nortbeastcru coast of America, marine iuvcrtebrata of tlio, recent additions to 

tLe, notice of— A. M. Veiuiill. (P. 188.')) 659 

North (ierman Lloyd, free freight bi^tween (Germany and United States by — 

R. SCHLEIDKX. (Iv. 1858) 109 

North Pacific Surveying Lxjx'dition^ 

contributions to natural history made in connection witli — T. II. Sti;ki',ts.. 'MY.] 

riiroiiiniida' of the, study of— T. II. Stkkkt.s. (P. 18S-J) 518 

North Pole- 
expedition toward the, scientific instructions to — J. llKxr.v; J. K. Hii,- 
GAUJ): S. Nkwcoau". ; S. F. Bairo; F. B. Mkick ; L. Agassi/. (K. 

1871) 040 

map of stars near the, for observations on the aurora 350 

Northern Ilemispliere, winds of the — J. II. Coffix 52 

Northern latitudes, record of auroral phenomena (>l)served in — P. Fouck 84 

Northern seas, the— J. Babinet. (R. 1869) 228 

Northumberland, Duke of — 

account of the *. 3;!0 

presentation of books by.; (R. 1859) 110 

Northwest coast of America, kjdkken-miiddings on tlic — P. Sciiilmaoiiim;. (R. 

187:5) ^ 275 

Norton, E. On wasps 254 

Norway — 

Ethnological Museum of— L. K. Daa. (R. 1862) l.'')0 

University of Chrlstiauia, ethnological specimens from. (R. 180:5) 187 

Norwegian mountains, lakes, and the siu)w-line — O. E. DiiEnTZER. (R. 18(ir)).. 211 
Notacanthus — 

analis, new species of, synopsis of — T. Gill. ( P. 1>!8;5) 548 

])]iasganoru8 from Newfoundhind — G. B. Good!;. (P. 1880) 425 

Notices of public libraries in the United States — C. C. .Iewett 25 

Notophyllum americanum, new species, description of — A. E. Vehimll. (P. 

1885) (550 

Notropis— 

alabama^, new species, in National ISInseum, descrijjtion of — D. S. Jordan; 

S. E. Meek. (P. 1884) (507 

boups, new species, from White River, Indiana, description of — C. II. (!il- 

BERT. (P. 1884) 007 

gilberti, description of— D. S. Jordan; S. E. Meek. (P. 1885) G50 

metallicus, new species, in National Museum, description of — 1). S. Joudan ; 

S. E. Meek. (P. 1884) (507 

Nova Scotia — 

anti(iuities of— George P.a.tterson. ' (R. 1881) 481,515 

birds of — Blacklston ; T. Bland ; J. R. Willls. ( R. 1858) 109 

iishcs obtained at. See G. B. Goode ; T. II. Bcsan. 

kjulcken-moddingsin— J. M. Jones. (R. 18(;:1) 187 

Null, James M. Aboriginal structures in Carroll County, Tcnii. (li. 188-2).. 5:!5,.")40 

Numeration, report on improved system of — W. B. T.wlor. (R. I8(i7) 215 

Nuovi Lincei, Pontifical Academy of the. Prize questions, {II. 18(55; R. 

18!;7) 209, 215 

Nushagak, Alaska, plants collected at, in 1881, C. L. McKay, list of— F. H. 

Knowlton. (P. 1885) (550 

Nutation, phenomena of— J. G. Barnard :{10 

Nutter, F. H. Mounds on Gideon's farm, near Excelsior, Hennepin County, 

Minn. (R. 1879) 345 

Nutting, C. C. — 

Antiquities from Ometepo, Nicaragua. (R. 188:5) 588,593 



796 CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 

NuTTiXG, C. C. — Continued. 

Collection of birds from Costa Kic.i, catiilogue of — R. Ridgway. (P. 1882) .. 518 
On <i collection of birds from Nicaragua (Geothlyphis liairdii, n. s., Oryzoho- 
rits nuttingl Ilidfjir., ContopuH dc2))xsslrosiris Jiidgiv., Cymhilanius lineatun fas- 
ciaitis Bidgiv. ; I'orzana leiicogaHtra liidyw. ) (P. 1883) 548 

Nye, W. ; Benedict, J. E., collection of birds made by, note on — R. RiD(;way. 

(P. 1884) r G07 

O. 

Ober, F. a.— 
Birds of — 

Antigua and Barbuda, collected by, catalogue of— G. N. Lawrexck. (P. 

1878) .' 332 

Dominica, collected by, catalogue of — G. N. Lawrexck. (I'. 1878) 332 

Grenada, collected by, catalogue of — G. N. Lawrenck. (P. 1878) 332 

Guadeloupe, collected by, catalogue of — G. N. Lawrence. (P. 1878).. 332 
Lesser Antilles, coUeotcd by, catalogue of — G.N. Lawrence. (P. 1898). 332 
Martinique, collected by, catalogue of— G. N. Lawrence. (P. 1878)... 332 
St. Vincent, collected by, catalogue of — G. N. Lawrence. (P. 1878).. 332 

Ornitliology of the Caribbee Islands. (R. 1878) 341 

Obsequies of Joscpli Henry 35G 

Observations — 

on four mules in milk— F. W. True. (P. 1882) 518 

on stone chipping — G. E. Sellers. (R. 1885) (j45,G49 

on volcanic eruptions and earthquakes in Iceland (translation). (R. 

1885) 049,644 

upon a collection of insects made in the vicinity of New Orleans, La., in 1882 

and 1883— R. W. Siiufeldt. (P. 1884) G07 

Observatories — 

astronomical, list of— G. TI. Boeiimer. (R. 1885) G4!.), 536 

at Cordova, Argentine Republic, account of— B. A. Gould. (R. 1873) 275 

at Dorpat and Poulkova, description of— C. Abhk. (R. 1867) 215, 369 

at St. Martin, Isle Jesus, Canada East, description of — C. Smallwood. (R. 

185G) 91 

d'^.taclied, universal meteorograph for — E. H. von Baumhauei;. (R. 1879). 345 
Girard College. See Bacbe, A. D. 

instructions to, relative to telegraphic .announcenieuts of astronomical dis- 
coveries— J. Henry 2G3 

Kew, verification of barometers at— J. WEf.sit. (R. 1859) 110 

magnetic, at Smithsonian Institution, description of— J. E. Hilgard. (R. 

1859) '. 110 

physical, on a— J. Henry. (R. 1870) 244 

reports of, 1879— E. S. Holden. (R. 1879) 345,410 

reports of, 1880— E. S. Holden; G. H. Boeiimer. (R. 1880) 438,442 

Toronto, instructions by, for aurora o1)servations 148 

Observers. See Meteorological stations and observers. 

meteorological, of Smithsonian Institution, list of. (R. 1838) 224,373 

Occultations — 

in 1852— C. H. Davis 29 

of planets and stars by the moon, 1853— J. DoWNES . 54 

visible in the United States during the years 1848-1852— J. Dowxks S, 9. 

iO, 11, 29 

Occultator, account of — T. Hill 101 

Ocean — 

fresh water in the— W. C. Dennis. ( R. 1866) 214 

Indian, cyclone in the — N. Pike. (R. 18G7) 215 



CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 797 

Oceanic bouito — 

on coast of Uuited States— G. B. Goode; T. II. Beax. (P. 1878) :5:}2 

(Orcjjnits pelamijs), occiutcuco of, in Vineyard Sonnd^V. N. Edwauds. (P. 

1878) :\■.^2 

Odi.ixg, W. Scientific work of Thomas Graham. (R. 1871) 249 

Odostoniia acntiiiens, new species of, from Florida — W. 11. Dall, (P. 1883)... 548 

Oehlkk, A. Stone cists near Highland, Madison County, 111. (K. 1S7'.>) ;545 

Oersted, II. C, memoir of, by E. Dk Beau.moxt. (H. 18(38) 2-^4 

(Est re lata — 

lisheri— K. RiDG way. (P. 1885) 650 

detilippiaua— E. EiixiWAY. (P. 1885) (>'>() 

Otricers — 

and establishment of the Smithsonian Institution and National Museum 449 

and Regents of Smithsonian Institution, 1846, list of N 

collaborators, employes, etc., of Smithsonian Institution, National Museum, 
Geological Survey, Bureau of Ethnology, and Fish Commission, di- 
rectory of 466 

Ogemaw County, Mich., ancient forts in— M. T. Leach. (R. 1834) t)JU,(J-2:3 

Ohio- 
ancient earth-works in, sketch of— I. Dille. (R. 18GG) 214 

ancient remains in — J. P. MacLean. (R. 1885) (345,649 

ancient works in, descriptions of — C. V/iiittlesey 37 

Ashland County — 

earth-works in— G. W. Hill. (R. 1877) '323 

mounds and earth-works in — H. B. Case. (R. 1881) 481,515 

Ashtabula County, double-walled earth- work in — S. D. Peet. (R. 187()).. 299 

Butler County, signal mounds of — J.P.MacLeax. (R. 1882) 535,540 

Butler County, mounds in — J. P. MacLeax. (R. 1883) 588,593 

Dayton, ancient relics at— Aug. A. Foerste. (R. 1883) 588,593 

Highland County, earthwork in — J. P. MacLean. (E. 1883) 588, 593 

Holmes County, Hint instruments in — H. B. Cask. (R. 1877) 323 

Jones Station, Butler County, earthworks near — J. P. M.vcLe.ax. (R. 

1881) 481,515 

Kelley-'s Island, climate of— G. C. Huxtixgtox. (R. 186G) 214 

Licking County, Flint Ridge, sketch of— C. M. Smith. (R. 1884) 020,(323 

Marietta, meteorological observations at — S. P. Hildretii ; J. Wood 120 

Miami County, earthworks and mounds in — E. T. Wiltheiss. (R. 1884).. 620, (323 

mounds in, fragment of cloth from, report on — J.G.HuxT. (P. 1883) 548 

northern,anti(iuitiesof— G.W.Hill. (E. 1874) 286 

Perry County, antiquities of^W. Anderson. (R. 1874) 286 

River, Blennerhassett's Island, remains on — J. P. M.acLean. (R. 1882) .. .535, 540 

River, habits of black bass of the — J. Eoef. (R. 1854 ) 75 

River, suggestions for improvement of navigation of — C. Ellet, Jr 13 

Trumbull County, mound in — F. Miller. (R. 1877) 3523 

Trumbull County, mound near Braceville— S. N. Luther. (R. 1881) 481,515 

Oil— 

coa',expl()sibility of— Z. Allen. (R. 1861) 149 

porpoise, manufacture of — C. Cook. (P. 1878) 332 

rock, or petroleum, history of— T. S. Hunt. (R. 1861) 149 

Oil-shark of southern California— D. S. Jordan ; C. H. Gilbert. (P. 1880) 425 

Old-World birds in National Museum, catalogue of— R. Riogway. (P. 1881) 467 

Oligoceue fossils, check-list of — T. A. Conrad 200 

Olmos, Peru, account of solar eclipse at — J. M. Gilliss 100 

Olmsted, D Aurora borealis, recent secular period of 81 

Olney,S.T. List of Rhode Island algoe 241 



CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 

Oiiiiiba — 

luytli— J. O. DoHSKY. (E. 1879-80) 476 

sociolooy— J. O. UoKSEY. (E. 1881-'82) C31 

Ometepe, Nicaragua, anticxuities from — Charles C. Nuttixg. (R. 1883) 588, 593 

Oochidiuin floiidaimm, notes ou — W. H. Dall. (P. 1885) 650 

Onondajja County, N. Y., antiquities of— W. M. Beaiichamp. (li. 1881) 481, 515 

Oaos rnfus, new species of, synopsis of — T. Gill. ( P. 1883) 548 

Onychotes grubcri — R. Ridgway. (P. 1885) 650 

Oology- 
North American. Part i. Rap tores and fissirostres — T. M. Bkeweu 89 , 

of Kcrguelen Island — J. IT. KiDDKii ; E. Coues i294 

Opening and closing of Kennebec River, Maine — R. II. Gardiner. (R. 1858) 109 

Oi)lieosanrus ventralis, remarkson osteology of — R. W. Siiufeldt. (P. 1881) 467 

Opbiacantha — 

fraterna, new species, description of— A. E: Verrill. (P. 1885) (550 

gracilis, new species, description of — A, E. Verrill. (P. 18cj5) 650 

varispina, new species, description of — A. E. Verrill. (P. 1885) 6.j0 

Opticbthys, nomeuclatureof—D. S. Jordan; C.H.Gilbert. (P. 1882) 518 

Opbioglycera gigantca, new genus and new species, description of — A. E. Ver- 
rill. (P. 1885) 650 

Orbit— 

and plienouiena of meteoric fire-ball — J. II. Coffin 221 

of Neptune, investigation of, with tables of its motion — S. Newcomb 199 

of [Jranus, investigation of, with tables of its motion — S. Newcomb 252 

Orbits, planetary, secular variations of— J. N. Stockwell. (R. 1871) 249, 232 

Orcutt, Charles R. (Comments on, by W. H. Dall.) Notes on the moUusks of 
t]i(! vicinity of , San Diego, Cal., and Todos Santos Bay, Lower Califor- 
nia. (With Plate xxiv.) {Lamellaiia (Hcyiiciinis, Dall, u.s., Ccvcinn 

orciiiti, Dall, u.s.) (P. 1885) G50 

Orcynus pelamys (oceanic bonito), occurrence of, in Vineyard Sound, Massachu- 
setts— V. N. Edwards. (P. 1878) .. : 332 

Oregon — 

iishes of, notes on collection of— D. S. Jordan. (P. 1878) .332 

jargon of— B. R. Mitchell ; W. W. Turner 68 

notes on Bendire's collection of Iishes from — T. II. Bean. (P. 1882) 518 

trade-language of— G. Gibbs Kil 

Ores — 

collected on geological survey in Michigan, catalogue of^C. T. Jackson. 

(R. 1854) \ 75 

rocks, minerals, and fossils, catalogue of— J. Locke. (R. 1854) 75 

Organic bases— A. Bauer. (R. 1872) 271 

Organisms. See Microscopic. 
Organization — 

and objects of tlie U. S. National Musuem— G. B. Goode. (l\ 1881) 467, 459 

of local scientific societies — J. IIknry. (R. 1875) 298 

of Smithsonian Institution, prograninu; of f, J, 328 

of Smithsonian Institution, report of American Academy of Arts and Sciences 
on— E. Everett; J. Sparks; B. Peirce; H. W. Longfellow; A. 

Gray. ( R. 1S53) : 07 

of Smithsonian Institution, report of Cotnmiltee of Regents on B, L, 328 

plan of, and n-gnlations of the IT. S. National Mnseiim— G. B. Goode. (P. 

1881) : ■ 467,445 

Organized bodies, natural history of— E. J. Mare y. (R. 1867) 215 

O'Reilly, Henry, deposition of J. Henry in case of S. F. B. Morse ?"« . , , , , , 115 



CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 799 

Origin — 

aiul history of the Smithsonian Iiistitntion — W.J. Riikes „... 3"28 

anil propagation of di«i>ase- J. C Dalton. (R. Id/i)) 27.") 

of force— W. B. Tayloi;. (IMdTU) 2-14,375 

Ornament, gohl, from a mound in Floti(hi, observations on— C. Kau. (II. 

1877) 3-23, 440, 403 

Ornamental stones of the United States, plan for a collection of, for New Orleans 

Exposition of 18S4-'8.")— G. 1*. Mkimmll. (P. 1884) 598 

Ornaments, gold, silver, and other, I'oiind in Florida — .J. Fkaxcis Lk 15aiu)\. (li. 

1882) :,:]-i, 541) 

Ornithological — 

explorations in the Connnander Islands and in KamtschatUa, resnlts of — Ij. 

Stejxkgeu 624 

generic names, notes on some apparently preocenpied— L. Stimnegki;. (I*. 

1885 G50 

notes on collections unide in Japan in 1882— P. L. JouY. (P. 1883) .548 

Ornithology. Sec Birds. 

American, nse of trinominals in — L. Ste.jxkgi^r. (P. 1884) 607 

of Caribeo Islands— F. A. Ohkr. (R. 1878) 341 

of Hawaiian and Fanning Islands and California— T. II. Streets 303 

of Kergnelen Islands — J. II. Kinder ; E. Coues 293 

0rtalida>, monograph of — IT. Loew 2.56 

Orthoptera — 

bibliography of — S. H. Sc udder 189 

instructions for collecting — P. R. Uiiler. (R. 1S58) 109 

of North America, catalogue of — S. II. Scuddeu 189 

Oryzoborus nuttingi, new species of, from Nicaragua — C. C. Nutti.xg. (P. 1SS3) 548 

Osborne, J. A. Account of lightning discharges. (R. 18G7) 215 

Osmerns attcniiatns, new species of California fish, description of — W. N. LoCK- 

ixgton. (P. 1880) 425 

Osseous tishes, viviparous, development of— J. A. Ryder. (P. 1885) (550 

Ostex Sacken, R. — 

Bibliography of diptera 270 

Catalogue of described diptera of North America 102, 270 

Diptei'a of Kergnelen Islands 294 

Directions for collecting and preserving diptera 102 

Monograph of Tlpididw 219 

Monographs of diptera of North America. (Part iv) 219 

OsTEN Sacken, R. ; Loew, II. — 

Instructions for collecting diptera. (R. 18.x8) 109 

Monographsof diptera of North America. (Parts i,ii) 141,171 

Osteological charactei's of the Lntjainnw—T. Gill. (P. 1884) G07 

Osteology — 

and mounds of the mound-builders of Wisconsin — J.N. De Hart. (R. 1877) 323 

of Opheosaurm vcntndis — R. W. Siiufeldt. (P. 1881) 4G7 

Ostracioutida>. (trunk lisln^s), a study of, with notes on American species — G. B. 

GooDE. (P. 1879) 333 

Othonops eos.a new gobioid fish from San Diego, Cal.—R. Smith. (P. 1881).. 4()7 

Ovis mont.-ina dalli, new geographical race of — E.W.Nelson. (P. 1834) tJO? 

Owen, D. D.— 

Catalogue of geological specimens. (R. 1854) 75 

Report on building stones. (R. 1847) H, 329 

Owen, R. D. Hints on public architecture • P 

Owl, description of a new, from Porto Rico — R. Ridoway. (P. 1881) 4C7 

Ox, American, extinct species of— J. Leidy 41 



800 CATALOGUE OP PUBLICATIONS. 

Oxj-gcn and itscombiuatioDs, lectnro ou — G. I. Ciiace. (R. 1855) 77 

Ozoue — 

and antozone— C. M. Wktiikkill. (K. 1864) 188, 355 

notice of C. F. Sclioenbein, the discoverer of. (R. 18G8) 224 

P. 

Pacific coast — 

fishes from, descriptions of new— D. S. Jor.UAX ; C. H. Gilbert. (P. 1881) . . 467 

fishes from, distributed in 1881— D. S. Jordan ; P. L. Jour. (P. ISsl) 467 

fishes of. Sec D. S. Jordan ; C. If. Gilbert. 

bibliography of— T.n.BicAN. (P. 1881) 467 

bibliograpliy of— T. Gill 463 

notes on— D. S. Jordan ; C. H. Gir,BERT. (P. 1881) 467 

of tropical America, tishes known from, list of — D.S.Jordan. (P. 1885)... (i50 

Pacific Islands, natural history of— W. H. Pease. (R. 1862) 150 

Packard, A. S. — 

Directions for collecting and preserving insects 261 

Memoir of 11. J. Clark 242 

Packard, F. A. Project of outline history of education in the United States. 

(R. 1863) 187 

Page,C, G. Report on etfect of frost on building stones. (R. 1847) H, 329 

Paleontology — 

list of generic names employed in — S. H. Scudder 470 

of the upper Missouri — F. B. Meek ; F, V. Hayden 172 

principles and methods of— T. H. Huxley. (R. 1869) 228 

Palatittes or lacustrian constructions of the lake of Neuchatel — E. Desor. (R. 

1865) 209,360 

Palenque tablet iu the U. S. National Museum — C. Rau - 331 

Paleozoic invertebrate fossils, department of, Nation.al Museum, report of curator 

for 1884. (R. 18840 648 

Palermo, evaporation observed at, in 1865, 1866— P. Taccmini. (R. 1870) 244 

Palmieri, Professor — 

Electro-magnetic seismograph. (R. 1870) 244 

Presence of electricity during fall of rain. (R. 1870) 244 

Panam.a — 

Bradley's collection of fishes from, list of— D. S. Jordan ; C. II. Gilhert. 

(P. 1882) 518 

new species of Myrophin and Chloroscombra.s from, description of — D. S. Jor- 
dan ; C.Il.GiLREUT. (P.1882) 518 

new species of Sciana scicrra from, description of — D. S. Jordan; C. II. GiL- 

BKRT. (P.1884) 607 

new species of i'rolophusfvom, description of^D. S. Jordan ; C. II. Gilrert. 

(P.1882) 518 

Rowell collection of fishes from, list of— D. S. Jordan ; C. H. Gilbert. (P. 

1882) 518 

.shells of, review of C. B. Adams's catalogue of— P. P. Carpenter 252 

Pancreas, observations on the — J. Jones 82 

Pandalus dapifer, new species from Arctic Alaska, description of— .7. Murdoch. 

(P. 1884) 607 

Pandoridai, contributions towards a monograph of the — P. P. Carpenter 252 

Pantaleon, Guatemala, antiquities of— C. E. Vreelaxd; J. F. Bransford, (R. 

1884) .' 623,619 

Paper molds, instructions for taking- A. P. Niblack. (P. 1883) 590 



CATALOGUE OF JHIJiLICATIONS. 801 

Papers — 

based ou collect ions ill the Nalidiiai Miiscniii. (11.1.-84, ii) (i4,S 

l)yiiivesti;i;ator.sii()t oflicci-.s of tlio IMiisiMiiii, based on JIu.sciiiii material. (R. 

1884,11) ,j48 

by officers of the. National Mason in. (K. 1881, ii) (;4y 

relating to anthropology — ^ 

(1^1881) '. r.i:,,48i 

(R. 1882).. r,.l(»,535 

(K. 188:?) r.;);;,588 

(R.1884) (;i::.620 

(K. 188,-)) ()1^,646 

I'ai;ilei>is coruBcans, lunv Hpccies of Paralcpis, description of — D. S. ,h)i;i).VN ; 0. 

H.GiLUKur. (P. 1830) 42.-. 

I'araliclitliys letbostigma, new spociiiion from Saint Johii'.s River, Florida — D. S. 

Jordan; S. E. Mkek. (P. 1884) (i07 

ParaponaMisgoodei, description of— S. I. S.mitu. (P. 1885) ()50 

Parapciia-us megalopa, description of — S. I, Smith. (P. 1885) ^ (ioO 

Parasites — J. Lkidy 44 

Parasites of the liessian ily— C. V. Riley. (P. 1885) G50 

Parasitic copepoda from American waters, annotated list of, described Kixuji- 
mens of, contained in the U. S. National Museum — R. Ratiibun. (P. 

1884) , (107 

Paris — 

Academy of Sciences, historical sketch of the — M. Fi.ouukns. (R. 18()2) 1.50 

Anthropological Society of, history of transactions of, 18(35 to 18G7 — P. 

BiJOCA. (R. 18G8) L'24 

Exi)osi(ion. See French Exposition. 

Milium d'lliatoire Naturelle, typical spceiuiens of American fishes in the — 

D.S. Jordan. (P. 1871)) :5;j:{ 

Pakkeh, 1'. — 

Biographical notice of L. Agassiz. (R. 1873) 275, ;321) 

Eulogy on Henry Wilson. (R. 1875) 208, :?2i) 

Parophrys ischyurus, new species of llounders from Puget Sound, descrip- 
tion of— D. S. Jordan * C. H. Gii.beut. ( P. 1880) 425 

Parrot, new species of, of genus Chirus, from Dominica — G. N. Lawi:enc'K. (P. 

1880) 425 

Parthenogenesis in the auimal kingdom — G. A. Kouniiuijer. (R. 1871) 24'J 

Parthenia cedrosa, new species of, from Florida — W. II. Dale. (P. 1883) .548 

ParviNjJ.B, Habits of the gopher of Illinois. (R.1854) 75 

Passer saturatus from Liu-Kiu Islands, Japan — L. Stkjnec.ek. (P. 1885) ()50 

Passerculus — 

beldingi, new species from California — R. Riduway. (P. 1884) (j'J7 

sandwichensis bryanti, new subspecies from California — R. RiDGWAY. (P. 

1884) (i07 

Pastinaeus, generic name of— S. Garman. (P. 1885) 6.50 

I'atagonia, human remains from— A. Ried. (R. 18G2) 150 

Patella, forms assumed by the, in birds— R. W. Siiufeldt. (P. 1884) G07 

Patent Ol'hce, U. S., meteorological observations under the direction or". Vols. 

I, II 157,182 

Patterson, Rev. George. Anfciciuities of Nova Scotia. (R.1881) 481,515 

Patterson, R. ; Siiarpless, T. Phonography. (R. 185G) 91 

Patton, a.— 

Antiquities of Knox County, Ind. (R. 1873) 275 

Antiquities of Lawrence County, 111. (R. 1873) 275 

Peabody', A. p. Scientific education of mechanics am4 artisans. (R. 1872) ..271,380 

n. Mis. 170 51 



802 CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 

Peale, T. R.— 

Ancient mound iu Saint Louis, Mo. (K. 1^^(51) 149 

Method of preserving lepidoptcra. (R. lS6:i) 187 

Prehistoric remains in vicinity of city of Washin;jton, D. C. (R. l'^7iJ) 271 

Uses of brain and marrow of aniinul.s aiuony Indians of North America. 

, (R. 1870) 244 

Pearce, J. A., eulogy on —A. D. Baciik. {U. ISCfi) 1 .'0, r,29 

Pearce, J. A. — 

Notice of Richard Rush. (R. IS'jO) I!0,n29 

Report of Committee of Regents on distribution of Smithsonian income. 

(R.1853) G7 

Pease, W. H.— 

Acknowledgment for shells, etc. (R. 18G1) 149 

Natural history of Pacific Islands. (R. 1862) 150 

Pediculati, supplementary note on — T.Gill. (P. 1882) 518 

Pedipeselongatus, notes on — W. H. Daw.. (P. 13S5) (i50 

Pedro II, Dom, biographical sketch of— A. Fialiio. ( R. 1870) 299 

Peet, S. D. Double- vralled earthwork in Ashtabula County, Ohio. (R. 187G).. 299 
Peirce, B., and others. Report of American Academy of Arts and Sciences on 

organization of Smithsonian Institution. (R. 1853) ^.. G7 

Peltier, F.A. Memoir of J. C. A.Peltier. (K.1867) 215 

Peltier, J. C. A.— 

memoir of, by F. A. Peltier. (R. 1367) 215 

scientific researches of. (R. 1867) 215 

Pempheris poeyi, new species — T. 11. Beax. (P. 18S5) 650 

Pena;ida3, from recent dredgings of Fish Commission — S. I. Smith. (P. 1885) . . . 650 

Pendulum, problems of rotary motion presented by the — J. G. Barxard 240 

Pennsylvania — 

Berks County, Potsdam Sandstone or Conglomerate from, note on — G. P. 

Merrill. (P. 1882) 518 

Bucks County, Remains in- -John A. Ruth. (R. 1883) .588, 593 

Centre County, Siiruce Creek Valley, account of a tornado iu — J. B. Meek. 

(R. 1871) .^ 249 

Chester County, birds of— V. Barxard. (R. 1860) 147 

Chester County, history of— W. Darlixgtox. (R. 1862) 150 

Cinnamon bear from— F. II. True. (P. 1882) ■. 518 

magnetic survey of— A. D. Bache 166 

Newcastle, old Indian village, Kushkushkee, near — E. M. McCoxnell. (R. 

1871) 249 

rock-carvings in — F. G. Galbraith. (R. 1881) 481,515 

southwestern, antiquities of — Horace Hayden. (R. 1881) 481,515 

western, ancient mound in — W. M. Taylor. (R. 1877) 323 

Pensacola, Fla. — 

collection of fishes from, obtained by Silas Stearns, notes on, with descrip- 
tion of two new species — D. S. Jordax. (P. 1884) 607 

descriptron of new species of amber fish (Seriola Stcarnsii) from — G. B. 

GOODE. (P.1879) 333 

fishes observed at, notes on— D. S.Jordan; C. H. Gilbert. (P. 1882) 518 

new species of fishes collected by S. Stearns at, description of— D. S. Jordan ; 

J.Swain. (P. 1884) 607 

Pepin, Lake, antiquities on the banks of— L. C. EsTES. (R.1866) 214 

Perca flavescens, notes on— F. Steindachxer. (P. 1878) 332 

Percidaj, notes on — D. S, Jordan 306 

Perch, yellow, note on scientific name of— D. S. Jordax. (P. 1885) 6.50 

Pefeimibf3,nc|}iate8j f|,ckuowledsttiipqt of~J, Gf, Fisher, (li, 1863) , ..,,,. .;..., J87 



CATALOGUE OF PUliLICATlONS. 803 

Porforated tablet of stoiu! J'loui New Y'oik — William Wallack Tookkk. (H. 

1831) ...481,:.15 

Periodical phenomena — 

directions for registry of ll:i 

observations on, isr>l to 1859 — F. B. llouiiil 1H2 

registration of — J. Henry. (R. 1855) 77 

registry of 65,148 

Periodicals — 

deposited in Library of Congress, nictcorologicai articli.'.s in. (U. 1--T:'.) '^75 

iu Library of Suiitlisouiau Institution. Parts i, ii ; foreign works; I'^tJi;.. 73, 85 

117,179 

received by the Institution, list of. (K. LSriO) 436,llvi 

received in reading-room of Suiitlisouiau Institution in 185:!, check list ol'.. Q 

scientific and technical, catalogue of — H. C. Boltox 51(i, 514 

Pekkine, T. M.— 

Antiquities of Union Couuty, 111. ( R. 187;>) 'J75 

Mounds near Auua, Uuiou County, 111. (R. 187^) •J71 

Persistence of images — F. N. Ivloui.vo. (R. IStif)) 'JH 

Perspiration and respiration, apparatus for testing results of— M. Pettkxkofei:. 

(E. 18G4) ._ IM 

Peru — 

earthquake in, August i:!, 18G8 — J. V. Cami'UKLL. (R. 1870) "J 11 

Indians of— F. L. Galt. (R. 1877) ::.>:; 

Olraos, total eclipse of suu, September 7, 1858, observed lu^ar — J. M. (!illis.s 100 
Peslin, M. Relation betweou barometric variations and general atiiiosplK lic 

currents. (R. 1877) :\2'.',, :','M 

Peter, R. — 

Ancient mounds iu Keiitncky. (R. 187'~J) ^17 1 

Ancient mound near Lexington, Ky. (R. 1871) ., x.'4'J 

Petite Auso Island, salt deposit on — E. W. IIilgaud vl IS 

Petitot, E. Account of the Indians of British America. (R. 18155) "JOlt 

Petrel— 

new, from Alaska— R. Ridgway. (P. 188,J) 518 

supposed new, from Sandwich Islauds, description of — R. Ridgway. (P. 

1881) 107 

Petroleuiii — 

collections, circular in reference to — S. F. Baird. (P. 1881) ■l;")7,447 

or rock-oil, history of— T. S. HuJS^T. (R. 18ol) Ill) 

Petromyjon bairdii, subgenus and new species of, synopsis of — T.Gill. (1'. 

1883) 5-18 

PetromyzontidiD, genera of, notes on — D. S. Jokdax ; C. U. Gii.r.i;ur. (P. 18S'.3). 548 

Petromyzontids, uote on- T. Gill. (P. 1832) 518 

Petropaulouski, uudescribed birds from, collected by L. Stcjneger — R. Ridgway. 

(P. 1883) 548 

Pettkxkoker, M. Appai'atus for testing the results of pcr.-ipiratiou and respira- 
tion. (R. 1864) l'-^3 

Pettigrew, J. B. Modes of llight iu relation to aeronautics. (R. 1807) 'J15 

Penca Mexicaua (Law.) a sparrow new to the United States. (P. 1885) ()50 

Phicnogamia of Korguoleu Island — A. Gray ~0\ 

Phalangida3, in.structions for collecting— H. C. Wood. (R. 18G()) '-214 

Pharmacopoeias of all nations, report on — J. M. Flixt 560 

Phenomsna — 

accompauying thopropagatioa of electricity in highly rarefied elastic lluids — 

A.DeLaRive. (R. 1863) 137 

in telegrapbio lipes during the {luj-ora hoi'c»lis— (j, Ji. Do^TATI. (Pt 1878) ... 371 



804 CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 

Phenomena — Continned. 

natural, observations on — S. Masteuman. (K. 1857) 107 

of contact, studies on— T. L. Phu'SON. ( R. 186-2) IGO 

of llight in animal kingdom— E. J. Marey. (R. 1869) 2'28 

of meteoric fire-ball — J. H. Coffin 221 

of precession and nutation — J. G. Baknaud 310 

periodical registration of — J. Henry. (R. 185r>) 77 

Philadelphia — 

Academy of Natural Sciences, report ou shells presented to —J. Leidy ; G. 

W. Tryon. (R. 1865) 200 

exhibit at — See Centennial. ' 
magnetic and meteorological observations at — Sec A. D. Bache. 
memorial of citizens of, relative to Lowe's aeronautic voyages across Atlan- 
tic. (R. 1860) 147 

Phillips, B. Two letters on work of the Museum. (P. 1881) 467,454 

Philological circular— G. GiUBS. ( R. 1862) 150 

Philology — 

Indian— W. W. Turner. (R. 1851) CI 

instructions for research relative to — G. GiBBS 160 

Philosophical Society of Washington — 
Bulletins of — 

Vols, i-iii. March, 1871, to June, 1880 423 

Vols. I, II, III 123,497 

Vol. IV 504,498 

Vol. V 504,503 

Vol. VI 543 

Vol. VII 592 

Vol. VIII 636 

memoir of Joseph Henry read before the — W. B. Taylor 356,339 

notes on life and character of Joseph Henry read before the— J. C. Wel- 
ling 356,338 

proceeding!-- of, on death of Joseph Henry 356 

Philosophy — 

annals of, contributions to, by J. Smithson. (R. 1853) 67, 330 

Bataviau Society of Experimental, of Rotterdam. Prize questions. (R. 

1861) 149 

Phipson, T. L. The catalytic force or studies on the phenomena of contact. 

(R. 1862) 150 

Phlegmasia, disease of, bibliograx»hy of works on — W. W. Keen 300 

Phoca ( Hisliophoca) fasciata, skeleton of— F. W. True. (P. 1883) 548 

Phoca?na dalli, new species of porpoise from Alaska — F. W. True. (P. 1885).. 650 
Phonetic language, vocal sounds of L. Bridgmau compared with elements of — 

F. Lieber 12 

Phonography— T. Sharpless ; R. Patterson. (R. 1656) 91 

Phonography, institutions in which, is tanght. (R. 1856) 91 

Phonology, comparative, of four Sioux languages— J. Owen Dorsey'. (R. 

1883) 588,593,605 

Phos intricatus, new species of, from Florida— W. II. Dall. (P. 1883) 548 

Phosphatic sandstone from Hawthorn, Fla.— G. W. Hawes. (P. 1882) 518 

Photo-chemistry— J. Jamin. R. 1867) 215 

Photographs of Indians, list of 216 

Photography — 

astronomical, progress in — Dr. Lee. (R. 1861) 149 

celestial, nso of silvered-glass telescope in— II. Dr.\per 180 

Phronimidai, study of the— T. n. Streets. (P. 1882) 518 



CATALOCiUE OF riTLLIOATIONS. 805 

Pliycie — 

Cliesteri from deep-sea fauna of nortliwcstorn Atlantic, (Icscriplion of— (J. 

B. Goode; T. II. Bkan. (P. 1878) ;i:!-j 

Eailii, new hake, from South Caroliuii, description of— T. Jl. JIioan. (P. 

1880) A-2o 

rcgius from North Carolina, note on occurrence of — T. II. Bi:an. (P. 188U). 4'jr> 
Physical — 

atlas of North America, proposed — G. Gibus. (K. 18tJ()) ... -Jit 

onthuology, lectures on — D. Wilson. (R. 18G2) 1.^0 

geography of Mississippi Valley — C. Eixet, Jr 13 

geography of North America — J. G. Coopek. (11. 18.')^) l(ilt,351 

geography of North American Continent — J. FiioEUia.. ( R. V<>\ ) ?.') 

geology, department of, National Museum, report of curat or for 1.-81. (Iv. 

1884,1) MS 

meteorological and, tables — A. Gu yot IJ'i'-i, 538 

observations in the Arctic Seas — I. I. Hayes 19G 

observations in the Arctic Seas — E. K. Kane 190 

observatioiiB in the Arctic Seas — F. L. McClinto(;k 146 

observatory, on a — J. Henry. R. 1870) J 1 1 

sciences, on the relation of, to science in general — H. Helmiioi.tz. (R. 1H7 1 ) . ^' I'.i 

tables— A. Guyot 153 

Physics — 

account of xirogrcss in — G. F. Bauker — 

1879,1880. (R. 1880) iAi,i29 

1881, (R. 1881) r.l.-,,485 

188i. (R. 1882) r.4(), 529 

18S;5. (R. 1883) r.'j;i,578 

1884. (R. 1884) G2;;,613 

1885. (R. 1885) (;41i,G30 

and National Historj', Geneva Society of — See Geneva. 

present fundamental principles of — F. J. PiSKO. (R. 1879) ;M5 

report on recent progress in, electricity, galvanism — J. MTr-LEU. (R. l?.">.')- 

1858) 77,91,107, 1(»9 

syllabus of a course of lectures on — J. Henhy. ( R. l.s")(i) 91 

terrestrial, articles on — J. V. Campuell; Professor l'Ai,.MiEm; W. W. 

JoiixNSOn; W.D.Sargent. (R. 1870) 'Jtl 

Physiculus fulvus, new species of, collected in 1881 by U. S. Fish Comuiissioii, 

description of— T. H. Bean. (P. 1884) G07 

Physiological investigations of vertebrata — J. Jones 82 

Physiology — 

electro, lectures on — C. Matteucci. (R. 18G5) -0'.^ 

of fever — H. C. Wood 357 

of lucernariaus — H. J. Claijk ~^~ 

of rattlesnake — S. W. Mitchell 1"'"> 

of respiration in chelouia — S. W. Mitchell: G. R. ^Moueiiousk 159 

Piazzi's astronomical observations, discussion of — B. A. Gould. (R. 18G;') 187 

PiCivEKiNG, C. Gliddou mummy casein Museum of Smitlisoniaii Institution . 2(08 

Pictographs of the North American Indians— G. MALLEiiY '",.52 

Picture writing, Central American, studies in — E. S. Holdex. (E. l.s79-'r-'0) .. 47G 

PiDGEON, W. Ancient burial mound in Indiana. (R. 18G7) 215 

Pierson, W. M. Discovery of large meteorite in Mexico. (R. 1-7;^) 275 

Pike, N. Cyclone in Indian Ocean. (R. 18G7) 21.) 

Pike County, 111., mounds- Joseph C. Watkins. (R. 1881) 4^1,515 

Pilar, G. Revolutions of crust of the earth. ( R. 187G) 299 

Pile work antiquities of Olmutz. (R. IHGG) 214 



80G CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 

Filling, J. C. Catalogue of linguistic manuscripts in library of Bureau of 

Ethnology. (E.1879-'80) 47(i 

Pima Indians of Arizona — F. E. Grossmax. (R. 1871) 249 

Pinna, cretaceous, from New Mexico, description of new — C. A. White. (P. 

1880) ^... 425 

Pipe fishes (siphostoma) of Key West, Fla., notes on — J. Swaix; S. E. Meek. 

(P. 1884) , G07 

Pinz, A. Methods of making and preserving plaster casts. (P. 1881) 407 

Pisces, class, arrangement of — T. Gill 247 

PiSKO, F. J. Present fundamental principles of physics. (R. 1879) M't 

Pitcher plant, naw (Darlinf/lonia Calif ornica), from California — J. Toiujey Gl 

Pits at Embarrass, Wis.— E. E. Breed. (R. 1877) r.23 

Plttasoma michleri zeledoni, new subspecies from Costa Rica, description of— 

R. RiDGWAY. (P. 1883) 548 

Pittsburgh, on Des Moines River, composition of ancient pottery found at — R. 

N. Dahlberg ; C. Daiilberg. (R. 1879) 345 

P an of— 

a bibliography— J. Friedlander. (R. 1858) 109 

American ethnological investigation — H-. R. Schoolcraft. (R. 1885). ..045, 049 
installation of collections in the U. S. National Museum — G. B. Goode. (P. 

1881) 407,472 

organization and regul.ations of U. S. National Museum — G. B. Goode. (P. 

1881) 407,445 

preliminary, for collections to be exhibited at the World's Industrial and 
Cotton Centennial Exposition of 1884-85, at New Orleans. (P. 

1884) 007,597,598,599,602,604 

research upon the atmosphere— C. M. Wetherill. (R.18G0) 214 

Smithsonian Building — R. D. Owen P 

Smithsonian exhibit at Centennial— S. F.Baird. (R. 1875) 298 

Pl.'inot. See Neptune, Uranus. 

l^lauftary — 

disturbances, lecture on— E. S. Snell. (R.1855) 77 

motion, general integrals of— S. Newcomb 281 

motion, pertnrbative function of, tables for determining values of co<'ni- 

cients in— J. D. Runkle 79,94 

orbits, secular variations of elements of— J. N. Stockwell. (R. 1871). 249, 232 

Planetoids. iSfie Asteroids. 

Planets — 

between Mars and Jupiter — Professor Lespiault. (R. 1801) 149 

between Mars and Jupiter, lecture on- -E. Loomis. (R. 1854) 75 

occultations of. See Downes, J. 

Planisphere of the visible heavens for observations of meteoric displays 359 

Plant* — 

Frdmontiana; — J. Torrey 46 

Wrightianaj Texano-Neo-Mexicame. Parts i, ii— A. Gray 22,42 

Plantamour, E. Report on transactions of the Society of Physics and Natural 
History of Geneva, July, 1804, to June, 1805 ; July, 1874, to June, 1875. (R. 
1805; R.1877) ." . 209,323 

Plants. See Torrey, J., Gray, A. 

collected by J. C. Fr6mont in California— J. Torrey 40 

collected by C. L. McKay in Alaska, list of— F. IT. Knowlton. (P. 1885) . . 050 
collected on the Commander Islands (Behring and Copper Islands) by Leon- 
hard Stejneger, notes on — A. Gray. (P. 1884) 007 

cryptogamons, i)rescnt state of knowledge of— W. Reiciiardt. (R. 1871).. 249 
dates of blossoming of— F. B. IIouGii 182 



CATALOGUE OF rUJUJOATIONR. 807 

Plants — Continued. 

dates of defoliation or fall of leaf of — F. 15. IlouGir 182 

dates of foliation of— F. I'.. lIoUGii 18-2 

directions for colloctinji and prescrviu^^ — L. F. Waiid 460 

fossil, Department of, National JInseuin, report of eurator for 1884. (K. 

1884,11) 048 

report 188.'), ii (VA 

fossil, from western North America, descriptions of — .1. S. NKWriKitRY. 

(P. 188-2) .-,18 

of Arctic America, descri j)tions of— A. Gkay ;{4'J 

of the Commander Islands, additional notes on the — L. Sti;,!XE(;i:k. (P. 

1884) (ior 

of Texas, New Mexico, and Mexico, collected by C. Wrij^ht — A. Ci:ay 22 

of upper Missouri, list of— T. C. Pouter. (R. 1850) 28 

of Washington, check-list of— L. F, Ward 461 

report on department of, National Museum for 188.') — L. F. Wai:i). (R. 

1885, II) (;54 

Plaster casts — 

methods of making and preserving — A. PiRZ. (P. 1831)... 4G7 

of antique and modern statues — W. J. Stoxk. (II. 18.55) 77 

of heads of Indian boys and girls at Hampton, Va.— E. II. Pj'.att. (P. 187!l) 'XV.] 
of heads of Indian prisoners at Saint Augustine, Florida — 11. H. Pratt. (P. 

1878) :!:i2 

Plateatt, F. Rapid i>reparation of myological specimens. (P. ISSl) 4ti7 

Plateau, J. Experimental and theoretical researches on the figures of ecjni- 
librinm of a liquid mass withdrawn from the action of gravity. I'arts 

i-Vi. (R. 1863-18Gr,) 187,188,200,214 

Platessa — 

ferrnginea, note on— G. B. Goode ; T. II. Beax. (P. 1878) :532 

rostrata, note on— G. B. Goode ; T. IT. Bean. (P. 1 878) '.^2 

Platophrysncbularis, new species, description of — 1). ,S. JoRDAX; C. 11. Gilbert. 

(P. 1884) 607 

Platycnemism in Michigan— H. Gillmax. (R. 187:5) 275,393 

Platyrhina — 

exasperata, generic relations of— D. S. Joi;dax ; C. IT. Gilbert. (P. 1880) 425 
triseriata, now ray from coast of California, description of — D. S. .Tordax; 

C. IT. Gilbert. (P. 1880) 425 

Platysomatichthys stomias, new ilonnder from co.ast f»f California, de«crii)tion 

of— D. S. .Jordan ; C. II. Gilbert. (P. 1880) 425 

Plectoguath fishes, synopsis of the— T. Gill. (P. 1884) r)07 

Plectrophenax hyperboreus, new species, from Alaska — R. Riogway. (P. 1884). ()07 
Plectronius — 

crassiceps, description of— T. II. Bean. (P. 1885) 650 

suborbitalis, new genus and species of, synopsis of — T. Gill. (P. 1881!) 548 

Plectostylus of Conrad, remarks on— C. A. White. (P. 188:5) 548 

Pleuronectes glaber, identity of, with Enchalarodns J'ufitami —T. 11. Brax. 

(P. 1878) :W2 

Plcuronectida; of San Francisco, review of— W.N. Lockixgtox. (P. 1"<7:>) r5:5:5 

Pleuroniehthys verticalis, new flounder from eoastof California, description of— 

D. "s. JouDAX ; C. IT. Gilbert. (P. 1880) 425 

Plover, new, from Chili— R. RiDGWAY. (P. 1832) ''■)18 

Plumage of regulus calendula, remarks on— C. W. BecivIIa.m. (!'. 1885) 650 

Pcecilichthys — 

beani^Boleosoma macnlatum— D. S. .Jordax. (P. 1884) 607 

lieani, new species, description of— D. S. Jordax. (P. 1"'84) 607 



808 CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 

Poecilichtliys — Continued. 

borealis, new species, description of— D. S. Jordax. (P. 1884) 607 

new species of, in National Museum, description of— D. S. Jordan. (P. 

1884) 607 

quiescens, new species, description of— D. S. Jordan. (P. 18S4) C07 

polustris, new species, notes on — C. II. Gilbert. (P. 1884) 007 

sagitta, new species of, description of — D. S. Jordan ; C. H. Gilbert. 

(P. 1883) 548 

swaiui, new species, description of— D. S. Jordan. (P. 1884) G07 

PoE, O. M. Account of ligbtning discliarges. (R. 1867) 2irj 

Poi'iY, A. New classification of clouds. (R. 1870) 244 

POEY, F. Notes on American species of genus Cybium. (P. 187S) 332 

POGGENDORFF, J. C. Use of galvanometer as measuring instrauient. (K. 1851)) 110 
Point-a-Pitre, Guadelouj^e, the Gueode collection of antiquities in — O. T. Mason. 

(R. 1884) 023,621 

Point Barrow expedition, new and specially interesting shells of the — W. IF. 

Dall. (P. 1884) 007 

Points, spear and arrow, primitive manufacture of, along line of Savannah 

River— C.C. Jones, Jr. (R. 1879) 345 

Poison. See Venom. 

Poisoned arrows, lecture on nature and cure of wounds of— D. Buainard. (R. 

1854) 75 

Poisonous — 

serj^euts, venoms of, researches upon — S. W. Mitchell; E. T. Reiciiert.. 647 

water in Gulf of Mexico, destruction offish by — J. Y. Porter. (P. 1881).. 467 
Polar expedition. See Hall, Captain. 

the Howgate, contributions to natural history of Arctic America made in 

connection with — L. Kumlien 342 

Polar light — 

its phenomena and laws — E. LooMis. (R. 1865) 209, 584 

or aurora borealis, its phenomena and laws — E. LoOMis. (R. 1865) 2U0 

Polaris expedition, scientific instructions for— J. Henry ; J. E. Hilgard ; S. 

Newcomb; S. F. Baird; F. B. Meek; L. Agassiz. (R. 1871)..... 249 

Polarized nerve, effect of irritation of— B. F. Lautenbach. (R. 1878) 341, 411 

Pollock, J. Assay of coins at the Mint of the United States. (R. 1868) 224 

Polyarlemia hazeni, new species, from Aiclic Alaska, description of — J. Mur- 
doch. (P. 1884) 607 

Polychrome bead from Florida — S. S. Haldeman. R. 1877) 323, 404 

Polydora tnbifex, new species, description of— A. E. Verrill. (P. 1885) 6)50 

PolypetaliD, bibliographical index of— S. Watson 25S 

Polynoo aurantiaca, new species, description of— A. E. Verrill. (P. 1885) 050 

Polyp, alcyonid, from Japanese waters, description of— R. E. C. Stearns. (P. 

1883) 548 

Polypi, relations of lucernarians to — II. J, Clark 242 

Polyzoa of northeastern coast of America, notice of recent additions to — A. E. 

Verrill. (P. 1879) :',.',3 

Pomacentrus rubicnndus, life of the young of— R. Smith. (P. 1882) 518 

Pomadasys, description of new species of, from Mazatlan, Mexico — D. S. Jor- 
dan; C. H. Gilbert. (P. 1881) 467 

Pomatomida3. note on the— T. Gill. (P. 1882) r)l8 

Pontifical Academy of the Nuovi Lincei, Rome. Prize questions. (R. 1805 ; 

R. 1867)" 209,215 

Poole, H. • Cono-in-cono. (R. 1803) 187 

Popocatepetl, examination of— Baron von Muller; A. Sonntag 114 

Population of the world, estiniato of the — E. Mailly. fR, 1873) 27i> 



CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 809 

Porcupiuo, Cuuatla, occurreiico of — 

in Maryland— 0. Luggek. (P. 1S8I) 467 

iu West Virginia — G. B. Goodk. (P. 1878) 33y 

Porifora of northeast coast of America— A. E. VEUiar.h. (P. 1879) 333 

Porogadiis miles, description of— G. B. Goodk; T. II. Bkax. (P. 1885) 650 

Porpoise — 

new species of, from Alaska— F. W. Tkuk. (P. 1885) 650 

oil, manufacture of— C. Cook. (P. 1878) ;{3-2 

Poryclitbys porosissimus, note on — D. S. JonoAN. (P. 1884) 607 

PORTEU, Comraodoi-o. Account of hail storm on th<^ IJoaphonis. (K. 1870) 244 

Porter, J. Y. Destrnction of lish hy poisonous water iu Gulf of Mexico. 

(P. 1881) 4G7 

Porter, J. Y. ; Jeffersox, J. P.; Moore, T. Destruction of lish near the 

Tortugas. (P. 1878) :{3>2 

Porter, Noaii. Address at the unveiling of the Joseph Henry statute. (11. 

1883) 51):?, 585 

Porter, T. C. List of plants of Upper Missouri. (K. 1850) 28 

Portland Society of Natural History, account of— E. C. Buli.es. (K. 1807) '215 

Porto Rico — 

description of new owl from — R. Ridgway. (P. 1881) 407 

great hurricane at — G. A. Latimer. (R, 1867) 215 

Latimer collection of antiquities from — O. T. Masox. (R. 1870) 200,397 

meteorology of— G. Latimer. (R. 1871 ) 240 

Portraits — 

of North American Indians, catalogue of — J. M. Stanley 53 

of North American ludiaus, Stanley, report of Committee of Regents on. 

(R. 1857) .' 107 

photographic, of North American Indians, iu gallery of Smithsonian Insti- 
tution, list of 216 

Potamocottus Bendirei, description of— T. H. Beax. (P. 1881) 407 

Potsdam sandstone from Berks County, Pa., note on— G. P. Merrii.i,. (P. 1882) 518 
Pottery — 

Anu^ricau aboriginal, department of, National Museum, report of curator for 

1884. (R. 1884, ii) 048 

Auiericau Prehistoric, report on Deiiartraeut of American Prehi.storic Pot- 
tery, National Museum for 1885— W. If. IIolme.s. (R. 1885, ii) 054 

ancient, from — 

Phillips Conuty, Ark.— J. H.Devereux. (R. 1872) 271 

Pittsburgh, on Des Moines River— R. N. Daiilberg ; C. Dahlberg. ( R. 

1870) 345 

ancient pueblo— W. H. Holmes G52 

ancient of Mississippi Valley — W. II. Holmes (352 

Indian- C. Rau. (R. 1866) 214,368,440 

Pueblo, study of — E. H. CusnixG 052 

Potts, Edward. Fresh-water sponges from Mexico. (With one cut Meijeuia 

pJumosa, xar.palmeri, n. v. (P. 1885) 0.50 

Pouched rat, or salamander of Georgia, habits of — W. Gesxer. (R. 1800) 147 

Poughkeepsie, N. Y., remains in— Henry Booth. (R. 188:5) .588, 593 

Poulkova and Dorpat, descrijjtiou of ob.servatories at — C. Abbe. (R. 1807). 215, 369 

Powell, B. Reports on state of knowledge of radiant heat. (R. 1859) 110 

Powell, J. W. — 

Evolurion of language. (E. 1879-'80) 470 

Limitations to use of some anthropological data. (E. 1879-'80) 476 

Mythology of North American Indians. (E. 1879-'80) 47G 



810 CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 

Powell, J. W.— Coutiuued. 

Eeport of Director of Bureau ufEtliuology. (E. 1879-'80 ; 1880-81; 1881- 

'82; 1882-'83) 631,476,542,652 

Wyandot go verument. (E. 1879-80) 470 

PowEUS, S. Centennial mission to Indians of western Nevada and California. 

(R. 187(5) 299 

Pratt, 11. 11. — 

Catalogue of casts of heads of Indian boys and girls at Hampton Institute, 

Virginia. (P. 1879) 333 

Catalogue of cast of beads of Indian prisoners at St. Augustine, Fla. (P. 

1878) 332 

Pratt, W.II. Antiquities of Whiteside County, 111. (R. 1874) 28G 

Prayer <at — 

funeral of Joseph Henry — C. Hodge - 35G 

memorial of Joseph Henry — J. McCosii o'aG 

memorial of Joseph Henrj- — B. ounderland 3r)6 

Precession of the equinoxes — J. N. Stockwell 232 

problems presented by— J. G. Barnard.. 240,310 

Precious stones — J. Babinet. (R. 1870) - 244 

jilan for a collection of, for New Orleans Exposition of 1884-'85— F. W. 

Clarke. (P. 1884) (■i07, 599 

Precipitation — 

influence of rain upon the formation of— ^J. Hanx. (R. 1877) 323, 398 

of rain and snow in the United States — 

charts of— C. A. Sciiott 374 

tables of— C. A. Schott r.47,222,353 

Prehistoric — 

antiquities of Hungary— F. F. Romer. (R. 187r>) 299,440,392 

archicology, international code of symbols for charts of — G. de Mortillkt ; 

E. Ciiantke. (R. 187r-) 298 

evidences in IMissouri — G. C. Broadhead. (R. 1879) 34r) 

fishing in Euroiie aud America— C. Rau CM), 509 

man, remains of, from caves in Alaska — W. Jl. Dall 318 

mounds of Grant County, Wisconsin — M. Strong. (R. 1B7()) 299 

remains in Florida— J. Francis Le Baron. (R. 1832) r)3r),.^;40 

remains in vicinity of city of Washington, D. C. — T. R. Peale. (R. 1872). 271 
textile fabrics— W. H. Holmes. (E. 1881-'82) (i:U 

Prentiss, D.W.; Coues, E.— 

Avifauna Columbiana 500 

List of birds of the District of Columbia. (R. IBtU) 149 

Preparation of — 

large myological specimens — F. J. Plateau. (P.1881) 407 

rough skeletons, notes on- F. A. Lucas. (P. 1885) 0.^)0, 626 

Preparations, dry, on Semper's method of making — J.A.Ryder. (P. 1881) 467 

Prescott, Canada West, ancient Indian remains near — W. E. Guest. (R. 1806). 91 

Prescott, W. H., and others. On publication of Spanish works on New Mexico. 

(R.1855) 77 

Presentation of — 

books— Duke of Northumberland, (R. 1859) 110 

books — Imperial Library OF Vienna. (R. 1865) 209 

books on Brazil— M. M. Lisboa. (R. 1865) 209 

books on Egypt— R. Lepsius. (R. 1860) 147 

collections by foreign governments. (R. 1S7G) 299 

engravings— C. B. King. (R. 1861) 149 

specimens — University of Ciiristiania, Norway. (R. 1863) 187 



CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 811 

Preservation — 

and collection of marine invertebrates— \V. Stimpsox :54 

of antiquities and national inomunents in Denmark — J. J. A. Wohsaak. 

(R. 1879) :{4r, 

of copper and iron in salt water— A. E. IJecquerel. (R. 1861) 188 

of wood. (R. IHGl) 13S 

Preserving — 

diptera, directions for — R. OsTKX Sacken 1(12 

lish, directions for— T. IT. Beax. (P. 1881) 'lt;T,464 

insects, directions for — A. S. Packakd 261 

lepidoptera, method of— T. R. Peale. (R. 181)3) 187 

moths, directions for— C. H. Ferxald. (P. 18!^) ti07, 600 

nests and ejjgs, instructions for — T. M. Bkkweu i:'>9 

plants, directions for— L. F. Ward 460 

removing and, the skins of manunals, Ijrief directions for — W. T. lIoiiXAnAV. 

(P. 1883) 589 

specimens of diatomacea — A. M. Edwards 366 

specimens of natural history — S. F. Eaird. (R. LSoG) iU, 34 

Pressure — 

and velocity of the wind-J. Haxx. (R. 1877) :V2:5, 398 

of the air— J. Haxx and others. (R. 1877) 3-23, 398 

PRESTWICH, J. Past and future of geology. ( R. 187r)) .• . . . 298 

Price-list of Smithsonian publications — 

March, 1884 573 

1880. (R. 1885) (519,627 

Priestley, . I., memoir of— G. CuviER. (R. 1858) 109 

Priestley's lens, account of — J. Hexky. (R. 1859) 110 

Prime, T. — 

Monograph of American corbiculadiT? 145 

Description of a new siiecies of S])h(rriiim {Splurriuni coHlariceiisc, n.s.). (P. 

1884) <'07 

Prime, T., and others. Cheek-list of shells of North America 128 

Primitive store-house of the Creek Indians— C. C. Jones, Jr. ( R. 1885) (145, (549 

Prince Regent's Inlet, meteorological observations in— F. L. McClintock 14(3 

Princeton, N. J. , address at — J. Henry S 

Principles — 

and methods of paleontology— T. II. Hi'xr.EY. ( R. 18ii9) 228 

of crvstallographv and crystallophvsis, explanation of— A. P.iieziva. (R. 

^872) * '. '. 271,386 

of mechanical theory of heat— J. Muller. (R. 18(i8) 224 

of physics, present fundamental- F. J. PlSKO. (R. 1879) 345 

of subcutaneous surgery— W. Adams 302 

Prionistius macellus, new genus and species, descri[>tion of—T. 11. ISeax. (P. 

1883) ^>48 

Prionotus — 

opliryas, new species from Pensacola, Fla., description of — 1). S. Jordax ; 

J. SWAIX. (P.1884) W)7 

stearnsi, new species from Pensacola, Fla., dcscriiit ion r>r — D.S. .Jordax; J. 

Swain. (P.1884) ^>^*' 

stephiinophrys, new species of Prioiiolus iVoui coast of Caliloiuia, descrip- 
tion of— W. N." LoCKixOTox. ( P. 1^'80) 425 

Prist iponia approximans, new species from .Tanvaica, d(scrij)t ion of — T. II. Heax; 

H. G. Dresei.. (V. 1884) C'07 

Prize questions — 

Academy of Sciences of th<'. Institute of Hologiia. (R. l.-'<>2) 150 



812 CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 

Prize questions — Continued. 

Batavian Society of Experimental Pliilosophy of Rotterdam. (R. 1861) 149 

Dunkirk Society for Encouragement of Sciences, Letters, and Arts. (R. 

1865) 209 

Holland Society of Science, Harlem. (R. 1861, 1864, 1867, 187.3) . . . 149, 188, 224, 275 

Imperial Academy of Sciences, Bordeaux. (R. 1868) 224 

Imperial Academy of Sciences of Vienna. ( R. 1864 ; R. 1865) 188, 209 

Imperial Society of Natural Sciences of Cherbourg. (R. 1864) 188 

Imperial Society of Science, Agriculture, and Arts of Lille. (R. 1865) 209 

London Institution of Civil Engineers. (R. 1862) 150 

Pontifical Acadamy of Nuovi Lincei, Rome. (R. 1865, 1867) 209,215 

Royal Academy of Netherlands. (R. 1861) 149 

Royal Academy of Science, Literature, and Fine Arts, Brussels. (R. 1873).. 275 

Royal Danish Society of Sciences. (R. 1862, 1865, 1867) 1.50, 209, 215 

Royal Institute for Encouragement of Natural, Economical, and Tech- 
nological Science, Naples. (R. 1873) 275 

Royal Prussian Academy of Sciences. ( R. 1864 ) 188 

Royal Scientific and Literary Institute of Lombardy. (R. 1865) 209 

Society for Encouragement of Science, Literature, and Art, Dunkirk, France. 

(R. 1865, 1873) 209,275 

Society of Arts and Sciences of Utrecht. (R. 1861, 1862) 149, 150 

Society of Science, Art, and Literature of Ilainaut, Mons, Belgium. (R. 

1873) 275 

Problems of rotary motion, presented by gyroscope, precession of equinoxes, and 

pendulum— J. G. Barnard 240 

Proceedings of — 

Board of Regents. See Regents. 

Biological Society of Washington 499 

Vol. II 545 

Establishment, 1853-1854. (R. 1853) 67,329 

U. S. National Museum. Vols, i-viii, 1878-'85 332, 333 , 425, 

467,518,548,607,650 
U. S. National Museum, catalogue and index of 478 

Frochlorite from the District of Columbia— G. P. Merrill. (P. 1884) 607 

Prodelphn.iS doris, a spotted dolphin apparentlj' identical with— F. W. True. 

(R. 1884, II) 648 

Products of combustion of gun-cotton and gunpowder — Lieutenant von Kar- 

oLYi; B. F. Craig. (R. 1864) 188 

Prodnctus giganteus, note on occurrence of, in California — C. A. White. (P. 

1380) 425 

Programme of organization of Smithsonian Institution F, J, 328 

Progress — 

in physics. See J. Milller. 

in science, record of— See Record. 

of astronomical photography — Dr. Lee. (R. 1861) 149 

Project of outline history of education in the United States — F. A. Packard. 

(R. 1863) 187 

Promotion of science in the United States, Tyndall trust for the. (R. 1872) 271 

Propagation of disease — J. C. Dalton, (R. 1873) 275 

Prospectus of a Bibliographia Americana — H.Stevens. (R. 1848) I 

Providence, R. I., meteorological observations at — A.Caswell — 

1831 to 1860 103 

1831 to 1870 443 

Provincetown, Mass. — 

experiments made at, upon animal heat of fishes— J. H. Kiddkr. (P. 1879).. 333 



CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 813 

Proviucetowu, Muss. — Continued. 

littoral marine fauna of — R. Ratubun. (P. IHSO) 425 

shell heaps near — H. E. Chase. (R. 1832) 535,540 

Provincial Society of Arts and Sciences, Utrecht. Prize <iue.stion8. . (R. 18G2).. 150 

Prussian Royal Academy of Sciences. Prize questions. (R. 18(34) 188 

Psaltriparus grindto, Beldin^, new species from Lower California, description 

of— R. RiDGWAY. (P. 1883) 548 

Pseudemys nigosa, heart of, influence of variation of temperature ou— II. G. 

Beykr. (P. 1885) G50 

Pseudotriacis microdon, Capello, first occurrence of, on the coast of the United 

States— T. IL Bean. (P. 1883) 548 

Psychromotric observations 157 

Psychrometrical tables — J. II. Coffin 87 

Pterophryne, on proper specific name of — T. Gill. (P. 1878) 332 

Ptychochilns harfordi, new species of rhjchocMlus, description of — D. S. Jou- 

dak; C. H. Gilbert. (P. 1881) 4G7 

Public- 
architecture, hints ou — R. D. Owex P 

buildings, acoustics applied to — J.Henry. (R. 185t)) 91 

instruction, minister of, report to Emperor of France by, on scientific expe- 
dition to Mexico. (R. 18G4) 188 

libraries of the United States, notices of — C. C. Jewett. (R. 1840) 21,25 

libraries. See Libraries. 

museum of the Institute of Jamaica, fishes received from, catalogue of— T. 

H. Bean; H. G. Dresel. (P. 1834) G07 

Publications — 

exchange of —Agricultural Association ok Milan. (R. 18G3) 187 

exchange of— Chamber of Commerce of Bordeaux. (R. 18G3) 137 

of learned societies and periodicals in Smithsonian library 73, 85, 117, 179 

of Smithsonian Institution — 

catalogue of, 1882— W. J. Rhees 5()(;, 478 

checklist of, December, 1881 50G,437 

check list of, March, 1884 571 

classified list of 480 

list of. (R. 186G) 74, 203, 22G, 245, 278, 290, 301, 344, 437, 478 

price list of, March, 1884 573 

183G. (R.1885) 649,627 

of the National Museum. (R. 1884, ii) G48 

of U.S. Government, 1868-1881— G. H. Boehmer 477 

of U. S. National Museum, list of. ( P. 1881 ) 467, 474 

periodical, received in reading-room of Smithsonian Institution Q 

report ou, 1853-1866— S. F. Baird. ( R. 1853-1866) 67, 75, 77, 91, 107, 109, 110, 

147, 149, 1.50, 187, 188, 209, 214 
Puebla, Mexico, description of largo fossil gasteropod from — C. A. White. (P. 

1880) 425 

Pneblos of New Mexico and Arizona, collections from ; illustrated catalogues 

of— J. Stevenson. (E. 1881-32) 631 

ancient pottery— W. II. Holmes 652 

Pugct Sound — 

desorii>(ion of two new species of flounders (Parophri/s ischi/urug and Hippo- 

glossoides classodon) from— D. S. Jordan; C. H. Gilbert. (P. 1830). 425 
new species of J/ffrfiHs from, description of— D. S. Jordan: C. H. Gilbert. 

(P. 1882) r)18 

Pulinonata — 

geophila, monograph of— W. G. Binney ; T. Bland 194 

limuoi)hila, monograi)h of — W. G. Binney 143 



814 CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS, 

PUMPELLY, K. Oieological researches in China, Japan, and Mongolia 202 

PnpilLa floridaua, uotcs on — W. H. Dall. (P. 1885) 050 

Purple dyeing, ancient and modern. (E. 18G3) 187 

Pntnaiu County^ Ga., mounds in — Bkxj. AV. Kent. (K. 1S32) 535, 540 

Pyramidella viueta, new species of, from Florida — W. II. Dall. (P. 1883) 548 

Q. 

Quale, Lewis. Account of the cryolite of Greenland. (K. 1806) 214 

Qualitative determinations by the blow-pipe — T, Egleston'. (K. 1872) 271 

Quarr3-, aboriginal soapstone, in Alabama — Ciiaules Moiiii. {II. 1881) -hSl, 515 

Quartermasters, authority to, to receive and transmit specimens to Suiith.sonian. 34 

Quatuefages, J. L. Memoir of Isidore Geoilroy St. Hilaire. (R. 1802) 150 

Queen Charlotte's Islands, Ilaidah Indians of — J. G. Swan 207 

Queries — 

about oxi^ression for anthropological inquiry — C. Dauwin. (R. 1807) 215 

relative to tornadoes — J. Henry 190 

Querimaua gyraus, uew species of, description of — D. S. Jokdan ; C. If. Giliiei:t. 

(P. 1884) 0U7 

Questions. >Sec Prize questions. 

relative to the food fishes of the United States — S. F. Laird 234 

Quetelet, L. A. J., eulogy on, by E. Mailly. (R. 1874) 280 

Quick, E. R. Mounds in Franklin County, Ind. (R. 187D) 315 

Quillehute Indians of west coast of Washington Territory, methuel of talcing 

surf smelt by —J. G. Swan. (P. 1880) 425 

Quincy, 111., mounds near— W. G. Armstrong. (R. 1879) 345 

R. 

Rabbit catching the sun in a trap (Omaha myth)— J. O. DoiiSEY. (E. l87;>-'80) 470 

Race, the human, probable future of — A. De Candolle. (R. 1875) 2'J8 

Races — 

intermixture of— G. GiUBS. (R. 1804) 188 

lower, social and religious condition of the — J. LrnuocK. (R. 1809) 228 

mixed, in Liberia — E. D. Blydkn. (R. 1870) 244 

Radiant heat, reports on state of knowledge of— B. Powell. (R. 185'.») 110 

Radiates of Arctic America — A. E. Verkill 342 

Radiation, lecture on— J. Tyndall. (R. 1808) 224 

Radicipes pleurocristatus, new genus and species, description of — R. E. C. 

Stearns. (P. 1883) 548 

Ratlnesciue's memoirs on North American lishes, review of — D. S. Jord.vn 305 

Raia — 

fusca, notes on — S. Garman. (P. 1885) G50 

inornata, note on— D. S. Jordan ; C. H. Gilbert. ( P. 1S81 ) 407 

jordauii, notes on— S. Garman. (P. 1885) 050 

rhina, new species of ray from coast of California, description of — D. S. 

Jordan; C. II. Gilbert. (P. 1880) 425 

senta, notes on — S. Garman. (P. 1885) 050 

stelhilata, new species of ray from Mouten^y, Cal., description of — D. S. 

Jordan ; C. IT. Gilbert. (P. 1880) • 425 

Rain — 

and atmospheric pressure — J. Hann. ( R. 1877) , , , . 323, 308 

and barometric minima — T. Reye. (R. 1877) , , , . . 323, 398 

and snow, tables of iirecipitation in — C. A. Sciiott 222,353,547 

articles on, preserved in Smithsonian. (R. 1874) 280, 353 

gauges— R. H. G A ppiNF-n, (R. 1858) .,,,, ..,t^, .,..,..,,.,..,,,,. .,,,..,. 109 



_ CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 815 

Ivii i n — Coil t i lined. 

iiilluencc of, upon the Uarometer — J. ]Lv\.\. (]^ 1877) :>,-S3 398 

observatious j57 

presence of electricity diiriiii;- fall of — rrofcssor rAL^UKKi. (R. Is70) Mii 

•luanlity of, at (liffereut beiglits— O. W. Ah)UKis ; .J. Hknuv. (K. 185;")). .'... 77 
.snow, or hail, electricUy of induction in sliata of atiuo.sphere surroundiiif; 

cloud rcsolviiijr into — F. Zantedk.sciii. {R. 1870) 214 

KaiM cliartsof United States, 1,2, :!: sninmer, winter, and year-C. A. Sciiorr. .. 374 
Kails County, Mo., mounds in— Gicokge L. If.^uin'; Fitiin 15. SciiKirr/. (K. 

If^^l) .'.l."),481 

Italia pipieus, auatomy of nervous system of— J. Wv.-max 4") 

IJaptores, oology of— T. M. Bkeweu H'J 

liat, pouched, of Georgia, habits of— W. Gksnei'.. {II. 18G0) 117 

Katubux, R. — 

Annotated list of the described species of parasitic Copepoda {SiphonoHloma) 
from American waters, contained in the U. S. National Museum. (P. 

1884) 007 

Catalogue of crustaceans, worms, cchiiioderms, and sponges of United 

States at London Fisheries Exhibition in 1883 511,.')'Jl, 552 

Deep-sea research r)ll,r)'Jl, 557 

Littoral marine fauna of Provincetown, Cape Cod, Mass. (P. 1880) 4'J,'3 

Marine invertebrates from New England, distrilnited by U. S. National Mn- 

seum, list of. (P. 1881) 407,465,471 

Notice of a collection of stalked crinoids made by the steamer Albatross in 

the Gulf of Mexico and Caribbean Sea, 1834 and 1885. (P, 1885) (5.50 

Report on department of marine invertebrates. National Museum, for 1884. 

(R. 1884,11) 648 

Report on department of marine invertebrates, National Museum, for 1885. 

(R. 188.5, II) 054 

Report upon the Echini collected by the U, S. Fish Commission steamer .1/- 
hatross in the Caribbean Sea and Gulf of Mexico, January to May, 

1884. (P. 1885) 050 

Report upon the Echini collected by the U. S. Fish Commission steamer vl/- 
hatross in the Gulf of Mexico from January to March, 1885. (P. 

1885) 050 

Rathbux, R. ; Tarr, R. S. — List of duplicate nuirine invertebrates distributed 

by Museum. Series iv 516 

Rathbun R. ; Veruill, A. E.— 

List of marine invertebrates distributed by the Fish Commission. Series i. 4;i4 
Marine iuvertebrata of New England distributed by Fish Commission. (P. 

1879) 333 

Ratio between diameter and circumference of a circle — W. Ferrel 233 

Rattlesnake, researches upon venom of— S. W. Mitcheli 135 

Rattlesnakes — 

bibliography of— S. W. Mitchell i::5 

genera and species of — E. D. Cole 135 

Rau, C— 

Agricultural flint implements in Southern Illinois. (R. 18(i8) 224,440,370 

Agricultural implements of North American stone period. (K. 1803) 187, 440 

Ancient aboriginal trade in North America. (R. 1872) 271,440, 385 

Anthropological publications, list of. (P. 1881) . . .' 407 

Arcliajological collection of the U. S. National Museum 287 

Artifici.^l shell-deposits in New Jersey. (R, 1804)..,, 188,440,362 

Circular pelative to contriliutious of aboriginal antiquities to the National 

Musisum. (P. 1883) 548,572 

V Drilling in ^t-ona ^Yithout metal, (R. 1863) .,„..„..,,.,., ,. iJ24, 440,372 

1^ ....^ 



816 CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 

Rau, C. — Coutiniied. 

Gold ornament from mound in Florida, observations on. (R. 1877).. 323, 440, 403 

Indian pottery. (R. 186G) 214,440,368 

Memoir of C. F. P. Von Martins. (R. 18(59) 228,440,251 

North American stone implements. (R. 1872) 271, 440, 382 

Palenque tablet in the U. S. National Museum 331 

Prehistoric fishing in Europe and America COO, 509 

Report on Department of Antiquities, National Museum, for 1885. (R. 

1885,11) 054 

Stock-in-trade of an aboriginal lapidary. (R. 1877) 323, 440,402 

Translation of Baegert's account of the Indians of southern California. (R. 

1863-1864) 187,188,440,361 

Translation of Romer's antiquities of Hungary. (R. 1876) 2i)d, 440, 392 

Rawson, R. Memoir of Eaton Hodgkinson. (R. 1868) 224 

Read, M. C. Ancient mound near Chattanooga, Tenn. (R. 1867)... 215 

Reading-room of Smithsonian Institution, periodicals received in, 1853 Q 

Recalculation of atomic weights. Constants of Nature. Part v — F. W. 

Clarke 441 

Receipts of specimens. iSee annual reports. 
Recent — 

improvements in the chemical arts — J. C. Booth; C. Morfit 27 

progress in physics— J. MOller. (R. 1855-1858) 77, la, 107, 109 

progress in relation to the theory of heat — A. Cazin. (R. 1868) 224 

jirogress in science, reports on. See Record of recent progress. 

researches on secular variations of planetory orbits — J. N. Stockwkll. (R. 

1871) 249 

Recommendation of Shea's Indian linguistics — G. GlBBS and others. (R. 1861). 149 
Reconstruction of eastern portion of Smithsonian Building, report ot architects 

(R. 1884) 623 

Record of— 

auroras iu higher northern latitudes — P. Force 84 

meteorological material preserved in Smithsonian. (R. 1874) 286 

monthly meteorological reports preserved in Smithsonian Institution. (R. 

1873) 275 

receut progress in science — 

1879, 1880, 1881, 1882, 1883, 1884, 1885. 
Anthropology— O. T. Mason— 

(R. 1880) 442,432 

(R. 1881) 515,488 

(R. 1882) 540,534 

(R. 1883) 593,583 

(R. 1884) 623, 618 

(R. 1885) 649,640 

Astronomy — E. S. Holdex — 

(R. 1H80) 442,427 

(R. 1881) 515, 483 

(R. 1882) . .540,525 

(R. 1883) 593, 574 

(R. 1884) 623,609 

W. C. WiNLOCK — 

(R. 1885) 649,641 

Botany- W. G. Farlow— 

(R. 1880) 442,430 

(R. 1881) 515,486 

(R. 1882) 540,532 

(R. 1883) 593,581 



CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 817 

Record of— Coutinucd. 

recent progress in. science — 

Chemistry— G. F. Barker — 

(R. 1880) 11-J,429 

(R. 1881) ..,., 51.-., 485 

II. C. BOLTOX— 

(R. 1882) 540,530 

(R. 1883) 51):;, 579 

(R. 1884) 6-J:!,614 

(R. 1885) (Jl'J, 633 

Geography — F. M. Green— 

(R. 1882) 540,527 

(R. 1883) 503,576 

(R. 1884) 023,611 

J. K. Goodrich— 

(R. 1885) ()40,632 

Geology— G. W. Hawes— 

(R. 1880) 442,428 

T. Sterry Hunt— 

(R. 1832) 540,526 

(R. 1833) 593,575 

Meteorology — C. xVbbe — 

(R, 1881) 515,484 

(R. 1882) 540, 528 

(R. 1883) 50.!,577 

(R. 1884) (;2;'.,612 

Mineralogy— G. W. Hawes— 

(R. 1880) 442,428 

E. S. Dana — 

(R. 1882) 540,531 

(R. 1883) 593,580 

(R. 1884) 023,615 

(R. 1885) 049,639 

North American Paleontology — J. B. Marcou — 

(R. 1884) '. 02.!, 610 

(R. 1885) 049,642 

Physics— G. F. Barker— 

(R. 1880) 442,429 

(R. 1881) 515,485 

(R. 1882) .540,529 

(R. 1883) 593,578 

(R. 1884) 023,613 

(R. 1885) 049,638 

Vulcanology and Seismology— C. G. RocKWOOD, Jr.— 

(R. 1884) 023,616 

(R. 1885) 019,634 

Zoology— T. Gill— 

(R. 1880) 412,431 

(R. 1881) 551,487 

(R. 1882) 540,533 

(R. 1883) ,..593,582 

(R. 1884) *'J-^. 617 

(R. 1885) 049,643 

Recording Indian languages, method of— .1. O. Dorsky ; .V. S. Gat-sciiet ; S. R. 

^RiGGS. (E. 1879-'80) 470 

H. Mis. 170 52 



818 CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 

Records and results of magnetic survey of Penusylvania — A. D. Bacue 166 

lied River — 

of the North, ethnology of Indians of valley of— W. H. Gardner. 

(R. 1870) 244 

settlement, Hudson's Bay Territory, Indian remains in — D. GUNN. (R. 1867) 215 

Reed,H. Lecture on "the Union." (R. 1854) 75 

Refraction of sound— W. B. Taylor. (R. 1875) 298,595 

Regents of Smithsonian Institution — 

list of, 1846 N 

list of, 1846-1879. JSee also each annual report 329 

memorial of Board of, relative to Smithson fund. (R. 1850 ; R. 1866)28, 214, 329 
memorial of Board of, to Congress asking appropriations for Museum. 

(R. 1867) 215,329 

memorial to Congress in behalf of, relative to new museum building — G. 

Bancroft. (R. 1876) 299,329 

proceedings of Board of. {See also each annual report) A, G, H, I, M, 329 

proceedings of Board of, on death of Jose^ih Henry 356 

proceedings of Board of, relative to the electro-magnetic telegraph. (R. 

1857) 107, 115,329 

report of committee of, on — 

communication of J. Henry relative to electro-magnetic telegra^jh — C. 

C. Felton. (R. 1857) 107, 329 

Corcoran Art Gallery. (R. 1872) 271,329 

fire at Smithsoniau— R. Wallacu ; J. Henry. (R. 1864) 188, 329 

Museum— A. Gray ; H. Copp6e. (R. 1874) 286, 329 

Museum— A.Gray; A.A.Sargent; H. Clymer. (R. 1876) 299,329 

report of committee on — 

Architecture P 

distribution of Smithsonian income— J. A. Pearce ; J. Meaciiam. (R. 

1853) 67,329 

Greek album— C. C. Felton. (R 1857) 107,329 

organization 328, B, L 

i Stanley's gallery of Indian portraits. (R. 1857) 107,329 

t system of accounts. (R. 1866) 214,329 

useof new hall— L.Agassiz. (R. 1867) 215,319 

Washington canal. (R. 1868) 224,329 

Regents of University of State of New York. Acknowledgment for specimens. 

(R.1865) .'. 209,329 

Registration of periodical phenomena— J. Henry. (R. 1855) 77 

Registry of periodical phenomena 65,148 

Regulations of the — 

Smithsonian Institution. (1872) 260 

U. S. National Museum— G. B. GOODE. (P. 1881) 467,445 

Regulus calendula, remarks on plumage of— C. W. Beckham. (P. 1885) 650 

ReiChert, E. T. ; Mitchell, S. W. Researches upon the venoms of poisonous 

serpents 647 

Reichardt.W. Presentstateofknowledge of cryptogamous plants. (R. 1871). 249 
Reid, D. B. Architecture in relation to ventilation, warming, lighting, fire- 
proofing, acoustics, and health. (R. 1856) 91 

Reid, S. G. Contributions to the Natural History of the Bermudas, Part iv. 

Birds 495,566 

Reigeu Mazatlan collection of mollusks— P. P. Carpenter 252 

Reindeer, man as the contemporary of, in middle Europe. (R. 1867) 215 

Relation — 

between barometric variations and atmospheric currents— M. Peslin. (R. 

1877) 323,398 



CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 819 

Relation — Contiuuod. 

of food to work, and its bearing on medical practice— S. IIaugutox. (K. 

1870) 244 

of physical sciences to science in general — H. Helmiioltz. (R. 1871) 2VJ 

of time and space, lectnro on — S. Alexander. (R. 1861) 140 

Relationiship — 

circular respecting degrees of — L. H. Mokgan 138 

system of, of Cree Indians— E. A. 'Watkixs. (R. 1862) 150 

systems of— L. II. Morgan 218 

Relative intensity of heat and light of sun— L. W. Meecii. (R. 1856) Ul,83 

Relic, ancient, of Maya sculpture, remarks on — A. ScrrOTT. (R. 1871) 249 

Relics — 

ancient, at Dayton, Ohio — Aug. A. Foerste. (R. 1883) 588, 593 

ancient, in Missouri— J. W. Foster. (R. 1863) 187 

ancient Indians — J. Jones 259 

ancient, of northwestern Iowa — J. B.Cutts. (R. 1872) 271 

in Poughkeepsie, N. Y.— Henry Booth. (R. 1883)...: .58'^, 593 

presented by J. H. Devereux. (R. 1872) 271 

Religion of Shoshone Indians — A. G. Brackett. (R. 1879) 315 

Religious condition of lower races of man— J. Lubbock. (R. 1869) 228 

Remains — See Ancient remains. 

aboriginal, near Naples, 111.— John G. Henderson. (R. 1882) 535, 540 

aboriginal, of Tennessee — J. Jones 259 

ancient — 

in Colorado— E. L. Bertiioud. (R. 1867) 215 

in Ohio— J. P. MacLean. (R. 1885) 645,649 

in White River Canon— R. T. Bron. (R. 1882 j 540 

near, Cobden, 111.— F. M. Farrell. (R. 1881) 418,515 

human, from Patagonia— A. Ried. (R. 1862) 150 

in Bucks County, Pa.— John A. Ruth. (R. 1883) 588,593 

in Independence County, Ark.— Dr. A.Jones. (R. 1881) 481,515 

Indian, in Cass County, 111.— J. F. Snyder. (R. 1881) 481,515 

Indian, in Caddo Parish, La.— T. P. Hotchkiss. (R. 1872) 271 

■of later prehistoric man from caves in Alaska — W. H. Dall 318 

of walrus (?) in Maine— C. H. Boyd. (P. 1881) 467 

on Blennerhassett's Island, Ohio River— J. P. MacLean. (R. 1882) 535, 540 

on White Water River, Ind.— George W. Homsher. (R. 1882) 535, 540 

prehistoric, in Florida — J. Frajjcis L. Baron. (R. 1882) 535, 540 

prehistoric, in Montana— P. W. NoRRis. (R. 1879) 345 

prehistoric, in vicinity of city of Washington, D. C— T. R. Peale. (R. 1872). 271 
Zapotec, account of— J. G. Sawkins; B. Mayer 86 

Remarks — 

concerning nature of currents of aip — A. Colding. (R. 1877) 3;J3, 398 

critical, on collection of birds from La Palma, Costa Rica — R. Ridgway. 

(P. 1882) 518 

critical, on tree-creepers of Europe and North America— R. Rid(JWay. (P. 

1882) 518 

on ancient relic of Maya sculpture — A. Schott. (R. 1871) 249 

on Cai-a giganlesca of Yzamal in Yucatan — A. Schott. (R. 1869) 228 

on kjokken-moddings on northwest coast of America — P. Schumacher. 

(R.1873) 275 

on Motadlla hlackistoi, Seebohm— R. Ridgway. (P. 1883) 548 

on osteology of Opheosaurus ventralis — R. W. Shufeldt. (P. 1881) 467 

on physical geography of North America — J. Froebel. (R. 1854) 75 

on species of genus Chiurus — W. N. Lockinton. (P. 1880) 425 



820 CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 

Eemarks — Continued. 

on the species of the genus Cepphus—L. Stejxeger. (P. 1884) 607 

on the systematic arrangement of the American Titrdidcc — L. Stkjneger. 

(P. 1882) 518 

on the type specimen of Buter oxypterus, Cassin — E. Ridgway. (P. 1885) .. 650 

Reminiscences of Joseph Henry— S. B. DoD 35G 

Reparatory inflammation in arteries after ligature, etc., nature of. Toner lecture 

No. VII. — E. O. Shakespeare 321 

Report. Sec Heury, J., Baird, S. F., Regents. 
Report of — 

American Academy of Arts^and Sciences on organization of Smithsonian — 
E. Everett ; J. Sparks ; B. Peirce ; H. W. Longfellow ; A. Gray. 

(R. 1853) 67 

architect— B. S. Alexander. (R. 1854) 75 

architects, 1879, 1880— Cluss and ScnuLZE. (R. 1879 ; R. 1880). 345, 442, 409, 434 
architects on reconstruction of eastern portion of the Smithsonian building — 

(R. 1881) 491 

(R. 1884) 623 

Assistant Director of the National Museum for — 

1881 515,510 

1882 540,524 

1883 593,587 

1884 648 

Board of Regents of Smithsonian Institution, 1847-1880— G, H, I, 21, 28, 51, 57, 67 
75, 77, 91, 107, 109, 110, 147, 149, 150, 187, 188, 209, 214, 215, 224, 228, 244, 
249, 271, 275, 286, 298, 299, 323, 341, 345, 442. 
Board of Regents of Smithsonian Institution for — 

1881 515 

1882 540 

1883 593 

11-84 623,648 

1885 649 

Bureau of Ethnology — 

first— J. W. Powell. (E. 1879-1880) 476 

second— J. W. Powell. (E. 1880-1881) : 542 

third— J. W. Powell. (E. 1881-1882) 631 

fourth— J. W. Powell. (E. 1882-1883) 652 

chemist— F.W.Taylor. (R, 1880) 442 

commission on general stereotype catalogue of public libraries. (R. 1850).. 28, 47 
Committee of American Association on system of combined meteorological 

observations. (R. 1851) 51 

Committee of Regents of Smithsonian Institution on. Sec Regents. Execu- 
tive Committee. See also G^ch. annual report 329 

Executive Committee on Henry statue. (R. 1880) 442 

experiments on animal heat of fishes — J. H. Kidder. (P. 1879) 333 

explorations in New Mexico and Arizona — J.Stevenson. (R. 1880) 442 

Government explorations and surveys. (R. 1878) 341 

National Museum Building Commission for 1879. (R. 1879) 345,409 

National Museum Building Commission for 1880. (R. 1880) 442,434 

National Museum Building Commission for 1881. (R. 1881) 515,491 

Secretary of Smithsonian Institution, 1847-1877— J. Henry. (R. 1847 

1877). F, H, 1,21, 28, 51, 57, 67, 75, 77, 91, 107, 109, 110, 147, 149, 150, 187, 188, 209, 214, 

215, 224, 228, 244, 249, 271, 275, 286, 298, 299, 323 
Secretary of Smithsonian Institution, 1878-1880— S. F. Baird. (R. 1878- 

1880) 341,345,408,418,419,442 



CATALOGUE 01^ PUBLICATIONS. 821 

Report of— Coutiunetl. 

Secretary of Smithsonian Institution for — 

1881 515,479 

1882 510,520 

1883 59:5,586 

1884 G.2:?,608 

1885 (ill), 629 

1885-'86 651 

Senate Judiciary Committee on management of Smitlisonian — A. 1'. Butlki:. 

(R. 1885) T7 

Smitlisonian Institution. See Report of Board of Regents. 

visit to Luray cavern— O. T. Masox. (R. 1880) 442,433 

Report on — 

a fragment of cloth taken from a mound in Ohio— J. G. Hunt. (P. 188:5) 548 

building stone — D. D. OwEX - ^-9 

catalogue system— C. C. Jewett. (R. 1849) 21 

Centennial Exhibition— E. F. Baird. (R. 187G) 299, 307 

contents of bottlesof water from Gulf of Mexico— W. G. Faklow. (P. IHsl) 4{)7 

copyright system— C. C. Jewett. (R. 1851) "^>1 

echini collected by Fish Commission stenmer Albatross in 1884 and 1885 — 

R. Rathbun. (P. 1885) 650 

effect of frost on stones— C. G. Page ^529 

ethnological collections of Museum of Lausanne— F. Tkoyox. (R. 1861).. 149 

explorations in Central America— Dr. J. F. Buansfoud. (R. 1882) 535, .540 

explorationsofancicntmounds in Union County, Ky. S. S-Lyox. (R. 1870) 244 
fishes of New Jersey coast, as observed in 1854— S. F. Baird. (R. 1854) ..75, 348 

fossils from Nebraska— J. Leidy. (R. 1851) -^'l 

Halliwell manuscripts— C. C. Jewett. (R. 1852) 57 

history of discovery of Neptune — B. A. Gould 18 

improved system of numeration — W. B. Tay'LOR. (R. 18G7) 21d 

international exchanges. (R. 1881-1885) 515, 540, 593, G23, 649 

lacustrian settlements— A. Morlot. (R. 1863) 187 

library— C.C. Jewett. (R. 1848-1853) 21,28,51,57,67,1 

limpets and chitons of Alaskan and Arctic regions— W. IT. Daix. (P. 1878) 332 

magnetic telegraph ■'■^^ 

meteorological system — E. Foreman. (R. 1852) ■"'7 

meteorology of the United States— E. LoOMis. (R. 1847) H 

mollusca of west coast of North Amcrica—P. P. Carpenter 252 

Museum and statistics of British Museum— S. F. Baird. (R. 18.50) iJS 

paleontological collections made by Lieut. G. K. Warren— F. B. Meek ; F. V. 

Hayden ^'^ 

pharmacopoeias of all nations — J. M. Flint 560 

plan of library— C. C. Jewett. (R. 1847) ------ H 

proposed exhibit by Smithsonian Institution at the Centennial Exhibition— 

S. F.Baird. (R. 1875) 293 

public libraries of United States— C. C. Jewett. (R. 1849) 21 

publications, exchanges, explorations, and Museum, 185 1-1877 — 

S. F. Baird. (R. 1851-1877) 51,57,07,75, 

77, 91, 107, 109, 110, 147, 149, 150, 187, 188, 209, 214, 215, 224, 228, 244, 249, 271, 

275,286,298,299,323 

recent progress in physics: electricity, galvanism — J. MOllek. (K. ISoo- 

1857) 77,91,107 

shell heaps of Tampa Bay, Florida— S. T. Walker. (R. 1879) -■--■■ ^■*^' 

shells presented to Academy of Natural Sciences— J. Leidy ; G. W. Tryon. 

(R. 1865) ~^^ 



822 CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 

Report on — Coutiuued. 

state of knowledge of radiant heat — 

B. Powell. (R. 1859) 110 

survey of economic geology of Trinidad— G. P. Wall ; J. G. Sawkins. (R. 

1856) 91 

system of accounts. (R. 1866) 214 

the flora of western and southern Texas — Dr. N. Ha yard. (P. 1885) 650 

the mollusca of Uw Commander Islands, Boring Sea, collected by L. Stejne- 

ger in 1882 and 1883— W. H. Dall. (P. 1884) 607 

stalked criuoids collected by steamer Albatross in 1884 and 1885 — R. Ratii- 

BUN. (P. 1885) 650 

transactions of Geneva Society of Physics. See Geneva. 

use of new hall in Smithsonian Building — L. Agassiz. (R. 1867) 215 

Report — 

preliminary, of FislTCommisaion dredging of ^rac/ti/Mra and Anomura — S. I. 

Smith. (P. 1883) 548 

to Emperor of France by Minister of Public Instruction on scientific expe- 
dition to Mexico. (R. 1864) 188 

Reports, meteorological, preserved in Smithsonian Institution, list of. (R. 1873) 275 

Reports of — 

astronomical observatories, 1879— E. S. Holden. (R. 1879) 345, 410 

astronomical observatories, 1880— E. S. Holden ; G. H. Boehmer. (R. 

1880) 438,442 

Committees of Regents, 1846-1877 329 

Secretary of Smithsonian Institution, J. Henry, 18G5-1877 343 

Smithsonian Institution, catalogue and index of 478 

Reptiles — 

and Batrachians, department of. National Museum, report of curator for 

1884. (R. 1884, ii) G48 

circular relating to collections of living 320 

cretaceous— J. Leidy 192 

cretaceous, review of— J. Leidy. (R. 1864) 188 

department of. National Museum, report on for 1885 — H. C. Yakrow. (R. 

1885,11) 654 

dates of first appearance of— F. B. Houoii 182 

description of new species — II. C. Yarrow. (P. 1882) 518 

extinct— J. Leidy 192 

new species of, in National Museum— H. C. Yarrow. (P. 1882) 518 

new species of, in National Museum, description of— H. C. Yarrow. (P. 

1883) 548 

North American, catalogue of. Parti. Serpents — S. F. Baird; C. Girard 49 
of the Bermudas — J. Garman 495, 568 

Reptilia — 

Batrachia and North American, check-list of— H. C. Yarrow 493, 517 

check-list of North American — E. D. Cope 292 

Rearingof the axolotl, notes on— T. H. Bean. (P. 1882) 518 

Research — 

archaeological, at Concise— F. Troyox. (R. 1861) 149 

archaeological, in Nicaragua — J. F. Braxsford 606,383 

by officers of Hudson's Bay Company, letter of Sir G. Simpson 137 

ethnological— E. H. Davis. (R. 1866) 214 

geological, in China, Mongol ia, and Japan — R. Pumpelly 202 

in sound— J. Henry. (R. 1878) 341,406 

on ammonia-cobalt bases — W. Gibbs; F. A. Genth 88 

on electrical rheometry — A. Secchi 36 



CATALOGUE OP PUBLICATIONS. 823 

Research — Coutinued. 

on figure of equilibriiiin of a liquid mass withdrawn from action of gravity. 
See J . Plateau. 

on secular variations of planetary orbits — J. N. Stockwkll. (R. 1871) 249 

relative to ethnology and philology of America, instructions for — G. Ginus 160 

relative to nebulte — Professor G autier. (R. 18G:?) 1H7 

relative to planet Neptune — S. C. Walker 3 

scientific, list of apparatus available for. (R. 1878) li-U 

scientific, of Peltier — F. A. Peltier. (R. 18G7) 215 

upon anatomy and physiology of Chelonia — S. W. Mitchell; G. R. More- 
house 159 

upon fever— H. C. Wood 357 

upon Hydrohiince and allied forms — W. Stimpsox 201 

upon the atmosphere, plan of a— C. M. Wetiierill. (R. 18(50) 214 

upon the venoms of poisonous serpents — S. W. Mitchell; E.T. Reiciiert. 647 

upon venom of the rattlesnake — S. W. Mitchell 135 

Residuary legacy. -SceSmithson. 
Resolutions — 

pi, Congress. See Congress. 

of Regents. See each annual report. 

Resonance, electric, of mountains, observations on the — H. De SaT.'ssure. 

(R. 1868) 224 

Reiiiration — 

apparatus for testing results of— M. Pettenkoker. (R. 1864) 188 

in the Chelonia, researches on — S. W. Mitchell; G. R. Morehouse laO 

Results of— 

magnetic survey of Pennsylvania — A. D. Bache 166 

meteorological observations — 

at Brunswick, Me.— P. Cleveland 204 

at Marietta, Ohio- S. P. IIildreth ; J. AVooD 120 

at Providence, R. I., 1831-1860, 1831-1876- A. Casweli '.47, 103, 443 

in the United States, 1854-1859 ir-7, 182 

ornithological explorations in the Commander Islands and in Kamtsehatka — 

L. Stejneger 624 

precipitation in rain and snow in the United States— C. A. ScnoTT..547, 222, 353 

spectrum analysis applied to heavenly bodies — W. IIuggin'S. (R. 18()6) .. . 214 
Retzius, a. Present state of ethnology in relation to form of the skull. (R. 

1859) ' IIO 

Review of— 

American birds. Part i. North and Middle America — S. 1\ Baird 181 

American species of flying fishes— D. S. Jordan; S. E. Meek. (P. 1885) .. 6,j0 

American species of genus Scops — R. Ridgway. (P. 1878) 332 

classification of birds— W. Lill.teborg. (R. 1865) 209,364 

cretaceous reptiles of the United States— .1. Leidy. (R. 1864) 188 

genera and species of family Ccntrarchidw — C. L. McKay. (P. 1881) 467 

genus Ccniurus—K. Ridgway. (P. 1881) 467 

pleuronectidse of San Francisco— W. N. Lockingtox. (P. 1879) 333 

Rafinesque's memoirs on North Aiueiucan fishes — D. S. Jordan 305 

the American— Caranginw—B. S. Jordan ; C. II. Gilbert. (P. 1883) 548 

Golden warblers- R. Ridgway. (P. 1885) G50 

species of epincphelus and related genera — D. S. .Iordan ; J. Swain. (P. 

1884) <'07 

Hltecies of marine mugilidw— J). H. .loiivxs; J. Swai.v. (P. 1834) 607 

the atiriculacea of the Eastern United States— W. II. Dall. (P. 1885) 650 

the genus Xoctiirnus—.h Swain ; G. B. Kalr. (P. 1882) 518 



824 CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 

Review of — Continued. 

the marine Crustacea of Labrador— S. I. Smith. (P. 1883) 548 

the species of the genus calamus — D. S. Jordax; C. H. Gilbert. (P. 1884) G07 

the species of the genus Imnudon — D. S. Jordan ; J. Swaix. (P. 1884) G07 

the species of Lidjanmce and hoplopagriiKB found in American waters — D. 

S. Jordan; J. Swaix. (P. 1884) GO* 

the Syngnathinoi of the United States — J. Swain. (P. 1882) 518 

Revisions of nomenclature of North American birds — R. Ridgway. (P. 1880).. 4'35 

Revolutions of crust of the earth — G. Pilar. (R. 187G) U90 

Reye, T. Rain-fall and barometric minima. (R. 1877) 3"i:i, ;!98 

Reynolds, J. E. Hydrogen as gas and metal. (R. 1870) 244 

Rhachotropis from the coast of Labrador — S. I. Smith. (P. 1883) 548 

RlIEES, W. J.— 

Catalogue and index of publications of the Smithsonian Institution, U.S. 

National Museum, etc., 1846-1881 500,478 

James Smithson and his bequest. (R. 1879) , 345, 330 

Journals of Board of Regents, reports, statistics, etc., of Smithsonian In- 
stitution 329 

List of public libraries, institutions, and societies in United States and 

British Provinces 116 

List of public libraries, institutions, and societies in United States in cor- 
respondence with Smithsonian Institution 238 

Origin and history of Smithsonian Institution 328 

Scientific writings of James Smithson, (edited by) 327 

Rheomctry, electrical, researches on — A. Secchi 36 

Rhinobatida), American, synopsis and descriptions of— S. Garman. (P. 1880).. 425 
Rhinobatus (glancostigma), new species from Mazatlan, Mexico, description 

of— D. S. JORD.A.N ; C. H. Gilbert. (P. 1883) .548 

Rhinonemus caudacuta, identity of with Gadus cimhrhis — G. B. Goode ; T. H. 

Bean. (P. 1878) 332 

Rhode Island — 

list of alga) of— S. T. Olney 241 

Providence, meteorological observations at, 1831-18G0, 1831-1876 — A. Cas- 
well 547, 103,443 

Rhodospermeaj— W. H. Harvey 43 

Rice, W. N. Coutributions to the natural history of the Bermudas. Part i. 

Geology 495, 563 

Riley, Charles V. — 

Jumping seeds and galls. (P. 1882) , 518 

On the parasites of the hessian-ily, with Plate xxiii. {Merisus {Homoporus) 

suhapteriis, Teirasliclins productus, nn. ss. ) f P. 1885) (!50 

Report on department of insects. National Museum, for 1884. (R. 1834, ii).. 648 
Ridgway, R. — 

A review of the American golden warblers. (Dendroicahryanti citslaneicejis, 

n. subs.) (P. 1885) 6.50 

Anthus cervinus (Pallas) in Lower California. (P. 1883) .548 

Catalogue of — 

a collection of birds made in the interior of Costa Rica, by Mr. C. C. 

Nutting. (P. 1882) 518 

a collection of birds made on the island of Cozumel, Yucatan, by the 
natualists of the U. S. Fish Commission steamer Albatros, Capt. Z. L. 
Tanner, commander. (Centiirus rubriventris piignurus, n. subs.) (P. 

18^5) 650 

aquatic and fish-eating birds of the United States at London Fisheries 
Exhibition in 1883 511,521,553 



CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 825 

RiDGWAY, E. — Couiinued. 
Catalogue of — 

birds of North America. (P. 1880) 425 

Old World birds ia U. S. National Museum. (P. 1881) 407,462 

TrocMlidce in U. Si. National Museum. (P. 1880) 42'i 

Critical remarks on tlio tree-creepers (Certhhi) of Europe and North Amer- 
ica. (P. 1882) r.l8 

De^scription of — 

a new haAvk from Cozumol. (Ihq)or»is gi-acUis, n. s.). (P. 183')) GriO 

anewpetrel from Alaska. (P. 188i)... r.l8 

a new race of the red-shouldered hawk from Florid.i. {Buieo lineatiis 

oHcHt, n. subs.) (P. 1884) 607 

a new snow bunting from Alaska. (I'lccirophenax hyperioreus, n. s.) 

(P. 1884) (507 

anew species of boat-billed heron from Central America. {Cancroma 

zeledoni, n. s.) (P. 1885) (Jr.O 

a new species of Contopus from tropical America. {Coniopiis pUeaius, 

n. s.) (P. 188.5) 650 

a new species of coot from the West Indies. (Fultca carihcea, n. s.) 

(P. 1884) r.fl- 

a new species of field-sparrow from New Mexico. {Spi:;eUa rrortlient, 

n. s.) (P. 1884) G07 

a new warbler from the island of Santa Lucia, West Indies. (P. 138;!). 518 
a new warbler from Yucatan. {Granatelhis sallwi houcardi, n. .subs.) 

(P. 1885) - «'>J 

an apparently new species of Dromococcyx from British Guiana. {D. 

gracilis, z^. 6.) (P. 1885) G50 

a supposed new plower from Chili. (P. 1882) 518 

new fly-catcher and new petrel from Sandwich Islands. (P. 1831) 467 

new owlfrom Porto Rico. (P. 1881) -IG" 

new species of birds from Costa Rica and notes on rare species. (P 

1878) ^52 

new species and races of American birds and synopsis of genus Tyrannus. 

(P. 1878) ^5^2 

new species and races of birds in U. S. National Museum. (P. 1878) 3:52 

several new races of American birds. (P. 1832) 513 

some new birds from Lower California, collected by Mr. L. Belding. 
(Lophopliancs inornaius cineraceus, FsaJMpartts grinder, Belding, Jitnco 

hairdi, JSelding.) (P. 1883) ^43 

some birds, supposed to be nndescribed, from the Commander Islands and 
Petropaulovski, collected by Dr. Leonhard Stejxegeu, U. S. Sig- 
nal Service. {HaJicctus hijpolencus SUjneger, Acrocephalus dylowskii 
Stejneger, Anorthura paUescens Stejneger, Ilirunda salurata Stejneger, 

A nthiis Stejnegcri Eidgw.) (P. 1883) r)48 

some new North American birds. (P. 1882) 518 

three supposed new honey-creepers from the Lesser Antilles, with a syn- 
opsis of the species of the genus Ccrthiohe. ( C.fimchi, C. sundevalU, C. 

sancti-thoma, nn.ss.) (P. 1885) _-- 650 

two now birds from Costa Rica. ( Ci/anocorax'citcuUatus, n. s., vireolanius 

pulchdlus vcrticalis, n. subs. ) (P. 1885) 650 

two new thrushes from the United States. (P. 1831) 4G7 

Icterus cucuUatus Swainsou, and its geographical variations. (P. 1885) G50 

L!»!: of special desiderata among North American birds. (P. 1881) 4G7 

LiM! ci .species of Middle and South American birds not in National Museum. 

(P. 1881) '^^'^ 



826 CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 

RiDGWAY, E. — Continued. 

Melanetta fusca CLinn.) in Alaska. (P. 1884) - 607 

Nomenclature of North American birds chiefly in National Museum 422 

Note on — 

Mesula confinis (Baird). (P. 1883) 548 

Selasiyliorus torridus Salvin. (P. 1884) G07 

some Japanese birds related to North American species. (P. 1833) 548 

some Costa Rican birds. (P. 1881) 467 

th.& Anser lucopardus o{ Brandt. (P. 1885) GoO 

the native trees of the Lower Wabash and White River valleys in Illi- 
nois and Indiana. (P. 1882) 518 

On a collection of birds made by Messrs. J. E. Benedict and W. Nye, of the 
U. S. Fish Commission steamer Albatross. Mimus gilvus rostratus, n. 
subs., Dendroica rufopUeata, n. 8., Icterus ciirasoensis, n. s., Certhiola tri- 
color, n. 8., Vireosylvia grandior,n. a., Vireo approximans, n. s., Elainea 

cincrescens,n.8.) (P. 1834) G07 

On Amazilia Tucatanensis and Amazilia cerviniventris. (P. 1831) 467 

On Cathartes hurrovianus, Cassin, and C. uruhiiinga, Pelzeln. (P. 1885) 650 

On duck new to American fauna. (P. 1831) 467 

On new humming-bird, Atthis Elliolti, from Guatemala. (P. 1878) 332 

On (Estrelatafisheri and (E. defilipplana. (P. 1885) 650 

On Onychotes gruheri. (P. 1885) 650 

On Peuccea mexicana (Lawr.), a sparrow new to the United States. (P. 1885). 650 
On some Costa Rican birds, with descriptions of several supposed uew species. 

Empidonax viridescens, Pittasoma michleri seUdon i. (P. 1833) 548 

On the genera Harporhyncluis Cabanis, and Methriopferus Reichenhsich, with 

a description of a new genus of Miminw. (P. 1882) 518 

On the genus Tantalus Linn, and its allies. (P. 1832) 518 

On the probable identity of Moiacilli ocularis, Swinhoe, and M. amurensis 
Seebohm, with remarks on an allied supposed species, M. Makistoni 

Seebohra. (P.1883) ; .548 

On two hitherto unnamed sparrows from the coast of California {Passercu- 

lus ieldingi, n. s., P. sandwichensis hryanti, n.subs.) (P.1884) G07 

On two recent additions to North American bird fauua, by L. Belding. (P. 

1881) 467 

Remarks on the type specimen of Buteo oxypterus, Cassin. (P. 1885) 650 

Report on Department of Birds and Bird Eggs, National Museum, for 1835. 

(R. 1885, n) G54 

Review of American species of genus Scops, (P. 1378) 332 

Review of genus Centurus. (P. 1881) 467 

Some amended names of North American birds. (P. 1885) _ 650 

RiED, A. Human remains from Patagonia. (R. 1862) 150 

RiQGS, S. R.— 

A dog's revenge (Dakota fable). (E. 1879-1880) 476 

Grammar and dictionary of Dakota language 40 

Riley, C. V.. Report on Department of Insects, National Museum, for 1885. (R. 

1885,11) 6.54 

Ripley, Fort, Minn., natural history of the country about — J. E. Head. (R. 

1854) 75 

RisBoidee, fresh-water— W. G. Binney 144 

River, Kennebec, opening and closing of the— R. H. Gardiner. (R. 1858) 109 

Rivers — 

dates of opening and closing of — F. B. HouGU 182 

diminution of water in— H. G. Wex. (R. 1875) 298 

improvement of navigation of— ^C. Ellet, jr 13 

method of ascertaining amount of water in— A. A. Humphreys. (R. 1858) . . l*-ty 



CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 827 

Roads and bridges, lectures on— F. Rogers. (R. 18G0; R. 18G1) 147,149 

Robertson, R. S. — 

Age of stone and troglodytes of Breckinridge County, Ky. (R. 1874) 286 

Antiquities of Alien and Do Kalb Counties, Ind. (R. 1874) 26G 

Antiquities of La Porto County, Ind. (R, 1874) 28G 

Antiquities of Nashville, Tcnn. (R. 1877) 323 

RoBixsoN, E., and others — 

On publication of Spanish worlis on Now Mexico. (R. 1855) 77 

On i)ublication of Squicr and Davis's ancient monuments K 

Rock Bluff, 111., descriptionof human skull from — J.A.Meigs. (R. 1867) 215 

Rock-carvings on the Susquehanna River, Pennsylvania — F. G. Galbuaitii. 

(R.1881) 481,515 

Rock inscriptions, ancient, in Johnson County, Ark. — Edward Green. (R. 

1881) 481,515 

Rock-oil, or petroleum, history of— T. S. Hunt. (R. 1861) 149 

Rock River Valley, Illinois, mound builders in — J. SliAW. (R. IS77) 323 

RocKWOOD, C. G., jr. Account of progress in volcanology and seismologj- — 

(R.1884) 616,623 

(R.1885) 634,649 

Rocks — 

catalogue of— J. W. Foster. (R. 1854) 75 

catalogue of— C. T. Jackson. (R, 1854) 75 

catalogue of— J. Locke. (R. 1854) 75 

catalogue of— J. D. Whitney. (R. 1854) 75 

crystalline, metamorphism, and formation of— G. A. Daubree. (R. 1861).. 149 
in Green River Valley, Indian engravings on face of— J. G. Bruff. (R. 

1872) 271 

Rocky Mountain goat, habits of the— J. C. Merrill. (P. 1879) 3:>3 

Rodent, rare (Cricetodijms parvus) — F. W. True. (P. 1881) 467 

ROEHRIG, F. L. O. Language of Dakota or Sioux Indians. (R. 1871) 249, 378 

ROESSLER, A. R. Antiquities and aborigines of Texas. (R. 1881) 481,515 

Rogers, F. Lectures on roads and bridges. (R.1860; R.1861) 147,149 

Rogers, W. B. Memorial address on Joseph Henry 356 

Roman mosaic, antique, from Carthage — G. H. Heap. (P. 1883) • 548 

Rome, Pontifical Academy. (Sec Prize questions. 

ROMER, F. F. Prehistoric antiquities of Hungary. (R. 1876) 299,392,440 

Romero, M. Explorations of John Xantus in Mexico. (R. 1862) 150 

Rosing, J. Exchange system. (R. 1865) 209 

Ross, B. R.— 

Eastern Tinneh Indians. (R. 1866) 214,365 

Observations in Hudson's Bay Territory. (R. 1859) 110 

Rotary motion, problems of— J. G. Barnard 240 

Rothrock, Dr. J. T. — 

List of and notes upon the lichens collected by Dr. T. H. Beau in Alaska 
and the adjacent region in 1880 (Biatora 8iMriensis, Willey n. sp.). 

(P. 1884) 607 

Sketch of flora of Alaska. (R. 1867) 215,367 

Rotterdam, Batavian Society of Experimental Philosophy of. Prize questions. 

(R.1861) 149 

Royal- 
Academy of Netherlands. Prize questions. (R.1861) 149 

Academy of Science, Madrid. On exchanges. (R.1861) 149 

Danish Society of Sciences. Prize questions. (R. 1862, 186.5, 1867).. -1.50,209,215 

Horticultural Society, London. Exchange of ])ublications. (R.1861) 149 

Institution of Great Britain, history of— E. Mailly. (R. 1867) 215 



828 CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 

Royal — Continued. 

Prussian Academy of ScicDces. Prize questions. (R. 18G4) 188 

Scientific and Literary Institute of Lombardy. Prize questions. (R. 1865). 209 
Society of London — 

list of SmitLson's papers presented to. (R. 185:]) 67,330 

notice of Soiitlisou, by D. Gilbert, president of. (R. 1853) 67,330 

origin and history of — C. A. Alexander. (R. 18G3) 187 

Society of Victoria, address of president of— R. L.J. Elleuy. (R. 1868)... 224 

ROYCE.C. C. Cessionsof lands by Indian tribestoUnitedStates. (E. 1879-1880) 476 

Rowell collection of fislics from Panama, list of— D. S. Jordan; C. II. Gilbert. 

(P. 1882) 518 

Ruin, ancient, in Arizona— J. C. Y. Lee. (R. 1S72) 271 

Ruins — 

at Savannah, Tenn.— J.P. Stelle. (R. 1870) 244 

in Hardin County, Tenn.— J. P. Stelle. (R. 1870) 244 

in White River Canon, Piuaa County, Ariz.— R. T. Burr. (R. 1879) 345 

Rules— 

for cataloguing libraries— C. C. Jewett 47 

for examination of specimens. (R. 1880) 442 

of distribution of Smithsonian publications 290 

RUNKLE, J. D. — 

New tables for determining perturbation of planets .^ 79 

Supplement for asteroid perturbations 94 

Rupert's Land, Institute of, circular of the. (R. 1861) 149 

Rupornis gracilis from Cozumel, description of— R. Ridgway. (P. 1885) 650 

Rush, R.— 

correspondence of, relative to Smithson 328 

letter from, relative to James Smithson. (R. 1853) C7, 328 

notice of, by J. A. Pearce. (R. 1859) 110 

Russell, R. Lectures on meteorology, with notes bj'^ J. ITexry. (R. 1854) 75 

Russia, meteorology in— A. Woeikoff. (R. 1872) 271 

Ru.ssiau America — 

ethnological investigations in, suggestions for— G. GiBBS 207 

suggestions relative to objects of scientific investigation in- J. Hexry 207 

•Tinneh Indians of— G. GiBBS ; B. Ross; W, L. Hardisty ; S. Jones. (R. 

1866) 214,365 

Yukon, journey to the— W. W. Kirby. (R. 1864) 183 

Ruth, John A. Remains in Bucks County, Pa. (R. 1883) 588,593 

RuTiMEYER.L. Fauna of Middle Europe during the stone age. (R. 1861) 149 

Ryder, J. A. — 

Camaraphysema, a now type of sponge. (P. 1880) 425 

Genera of the IcolopendrelUdce. (P. 1882) 518 

List of North American species of myriapods belonging to family of Lysiope- 
talidce, with description of blind form from Luray Cave, Virginia. (P. 

1880) 425 

On certain features of the development of the salmon, (With Plate xii.) 

(P. 1885) G50 

On Semper's method of making dry preparations. (P. 1881) 467 

On the chlorophylloid granules of Vorticella. ( See also under Gill and Ryder. ) 

(P. 1884) G07 

On the development of viviparous osseous fishes. (With Plates Vl-xi). (R. 

1885) _ C50 

Ryder, J. A.; Gill, T. Literature andsystematicrelationsofthesaccopAaryn^ouZ 

fishes. (P. 1884) 607 



CATALOGUE OF PUBLIC ATIOITS. 829 



S. 

Sabella jiicta, new species, description of— A. E. Vkurill. (P. 1885) 650 

Sabine, E. — 

Magnetic storms. (R. 1860) 147 

On continuanco of magnetic observations. (R. 1858) 109 

Sable Island Bank, description of Jr^enYf'na syrtensium, new deep-sea fish from — 

G. B. GooDE ; T. H, Bean. (P. 1878) Xi2 

Saccopharyugoid fishes, literature and systematic relations of the — T. Gill ; J. 

A.Ryder. (P. 1884) 607 

Sacken, Osten— /See Osten Sacken. 
Sacramento, Cal. — 

meteorological observations at — F. W. Hatch. (R. 1854) 75 

meteorological observations at — T. M. Logan. (R. 1854) 75 

meteorology of— T. M. Logan. (R. 1857) 107 

Sacramento River, description of new species of Pti/chochilus {Ptychochilua Ilar- 

fordi) from— D. S. Jordan ; C. IL Gilbert. (P. 1881) 467 

Saint Augastine, Fla., catalogue of casts of heads of Indian prisoners at — R. H. 

Pkatt. (P. 1878) SS'Z 

St. Christopher, West Indies, description of now subspecies of saxigilla from — G. 

N. Lawrence. (P. 1881) 467 

St. Croix Island, flora of— H, F. Eggers 313 

St. George's Banks, occurrence of Hippocampus antiquorum on — G. B. Goode. 

(P. 1878) 332 

St. George, New Brunswick, sculptured stone found in — J. Allen Jack. (R. 

1881) 481,515 

St. Hilaire — 

Etienne Geoft'roy, memoir of^M. Flourens. (R. 1861) 149 

Isidore Geofi"roy, memoir of— J. L. Quatrefages. (R. 1862) 150 

St. John's River, Fla,— 

catalogue of fishes of— G. B. Goode. (P. 1879) 333 

fishes observed in— D. S. Jordan; L. E. Meek. (P. 1834) 607 

shell-heaps at mouth of— S. P. Mayberry. (R. 1877) 323 

Saint Louis, Mo. — 

ancient mound in— T. R. Peale. (R. 1861) 149 

temperature of— A. Fendler. (R. 1860) 147 

St. Martin, Isle Jesus, Canada East, description of observatory at— C. Small- 

WOOD. (R. 1856) 91 

St. Michaels, Alaska — 

occurrence oi Htppoglossus vulgaris at — T. H. Bean. (P. 1879) 333 

occurrence of Stichocus panciatus at — T. H. Bean. (P. 1878) 332 

St. Petersburg Academy of Sciences. Exchange system. (R. 1867) 215 

St. Thomas- 
earthquakes in— G. A. Latimer. (R. 1867) 215 

hurricane in the island of— G. A. Latimer. (R. 1867) 215 

whirlwind at, August 21, 1871— A. Colding. (R. 1877) 323,398 

St. Vincent, catalogue of Ober's collection of birds of— G. N. Lawkknce. (P. 

1878) 332 

Salamander — 

habits of a species of— C. Mann. (R. 1854) 75 

inhabiting Wisconsin- P. R. Hoy. (R. 1854) 75 

or pouched rat, of Georgia, habits of— W. Gesner. (R. 1860) 147 

Salem, Iowa, mounds at Snake Den, near — W. V. Banta ; John Garretson. 

(R. 188.1) 481,515 



830 CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 

Salisbury, England, notice of Blackmore Museum at. (R. 1868) 224 

Salmon — 

development of, certain features of the — J. A. IIyder. (P. 1885) 650 

in Columbia Eiver, Chinook names of— S. B. Smith. (P. 1881) 467 

Salmonidaj of Upper Columbia, notes on the — C. Bendiue. (P. 1881) 467 

Salt deposit on Petite Anse Island— E. W. Hilgard 248 

Salt water, preservation of copper and iron in — A. E. Becquerel. (R. 1864) 188 

Samoan Islands, fishes from the — T. II. Streets 303 

San Bernardino, Cal., artesian well at, Gasterosteus williamsoniin, note on — R. 

Smith. (P. 1883) 548 

San Cristobal, Lower California, fishes collected at, by C. H. Townsend, notes 

on— R. Smith. (P. 1884) 607 

San Diego, Cal. — 

descrijjtion of new gobioid fish (0<fto?(ojw eos) from — R.Smith. (P. 1881).. 467 
description of new species of Goiiesox {Goiiesox rhessodon) from — R. SJnXH. 

(P. 1881) 467 

mollusks of the vicinity of, notes on — C. R. Orcutt. (P. 1885) 650 

new species of shark from— D. S. Jordan ; C. H. Gilbert. (P. 1882) 518 

notes on collection of fishes from— D. S. Jordan ; C. H. Gilbert. (P. 1880) 425 

occurrence of species of cremnobates at — R. Smith. (P. 1880) 425 

San Francisco, Cal. — 

climate of— H. Gibbons. (R. 1854) 75 

fishes of. See Jordan, D. S., Gilbert, C. H., Lockiuijton, W. N. 

review of Fleuroneciidce of— W. N. LOCKINGTOX. (P. 1879) 333 

Sand, volcanic dust and, deposits of, in southwestern Nebraska — G. P. Merrill. 

(P. 1885) 650 

Sandstone, phosphatic, from Hawthorne, Fla.— G. W. Hawes. (P. 1882) 518 

Sandwich Islands, description of new fly-catcher and new petrel from — R. 

RiDGWAY. (P. 1881) 467 

Sangamon County, 111., mounds in— James Wickersuam. (R. 1883) 588, 593 

Sanitary drainage of Washington, suggestions for the. Toner lecture No. viii. 

G. E. Waring 505, 349 

Santa Barbara, Cal. — 

channel of, description of two new species of scopeloid fishes {Sudis ringena 
and Myciojihum crenvlare) from— D. S. Jordan ; C. H. Gilbert. 

(P. 1880) 425 

new species of blenny from — D. S. Jordan. (P. 1882) .518 

pleistocene fossils collected at, by E. Jewett — P. P. Carpenter 252 

Santa Catalina Island, CaKfornia, description of new flounder (Xystrem-ys Uolepia) 

from— D. S. Jordan; C.H.Gilbert. (P. 1880) 425 

Sauta Lucia Cosumalwhuapa, Guatemala, sculptures of— S. Habel 269 

Santa Lucia, West Indies, new warbler from— R. Ridgway. (P. 1882) 518 

Santa Rosa Island, history and antiquities of — S. Bowers. (R. 1877) 323 

Sarcophagus from Beirut, Syria, account of — A. A. Harwood. (R. 1870) 244 

Sargent, A. A., and others. Report on Museum. (R. 1876) 299 

Sargent, W. D. Influence of aurora on the telegraph. (R. 1870) 244 

Sargus Holbrookii, a new sparoid fish from Savannah Bank, description of— 

T. H. Bean. (P. 1878) 332 

Sartorius, C— 

Earthquakes in eastern Mexico, January, 1866. (8. 1866) 214 

Eruption of volcano of Colima. (R. 1869) 228 

Saturn, secular variations of elements of orbit of, with tables— J. N. SxoCK- 

WELL 232 

Saunders, Cobmander. Tidal record at Wolstenholm Sound, 1849, 1850 130 

Saussure. See De Saussure. 



CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 831 

Savage -ocapous at Ccutouuiul Exbibitiuii, study of — E. II. Knight. (K. 

1879) 34r>,415 

Savanuab — 

Bank, descriptiou of new sparoid I'mli {Sargus ITolbrookii) from — T. II. Bkan. 

(P. 1878)... ■^32 

Kiver, primitive maunfacturo of spear and arrow i)oint8 along lino of— C. C. 

Jones, jr. (R. 1879) 345 

Tennessee, account of aboriginal ruins at — .J. P. Stkllk. (R. 1870) 244 

Sawkins, J. G., drawings of Zapotec remains by 86 

Sawkixs, J. G.; Wall, G. P. Economic geology of Trinidad. (R. 185G) 91 

Sayella — 

crosscaua, notes on — "\V. II. Uall. (P. 1885) 650 

notes on— W. H. Ball. (P. 1883) 650 

Scaroid fishes from Havana and Key West, descriptions of— I). S. Jordan ; J. 

Swain. (P. 1864) 607 

Scarrus virgiualis, new si^ecies, deseriiition of — D. S. Jordan; J. Swain. (P. 

1884) 607 

Scenery, catalogue of sketches of— J. M. Stanley 53 

SCHEETZ, Fked. B.; Hardv, George L. Mounds in Ralls County, Mo. (R. 

1831) .' 481,51.': 

Scherzer; SciiWARZ. Table of anthropological measurements. (R. 1866) 214 

Schists, crystalline, of the District, of Columbia, preliminary note on the — G. 

P. Merrill. (P. 1SS3) 548 

Schlagintweit, H. De. Ethnographical collections. (R. 1862) 150 

Schlagiutweit ethnographic collection, account of the — H. Zisgenbals. (R. 

1867) 215 

ScHLEiDEN, R. Free freight between Germany and United States by North 

German Lloyd. (R. 1858) 109 

Schoeubein, C. F., notice of, by J. Henry. (R. 1868) 224 

Schoharie, N. Y., Indian relics from— F. D. Andrews. (R. 1879) 34r) 

Schoodic Lakes, Maine, description of new species of Gasfcrosteiis from — T. II. 

Bean. (P. 1879) 333 

Schoolcraft, II. R. Plan for American ethnological investigation. (R. 

1885) 645, 649 

Schott, a. — 

Remarks on ancient relic of Maya sculpture. (R. 1871) 249 

Remarks on the Crtra (/((/a?) <esca in Yucatan. (R. 1869) 228 

Schott, A.; Mason, O. T. Leipsic Museum of Ethnology. (R. 1873) 275 

Schott, C. A.— 

Base-chart of the United States 414 

Discussion of — 

Caswell's meteorological observations at Providence, R. 1 103 

Cleaveland's meteorological observations at Brunswick, Me 204 

Haj'es's physical observations in the Arctic Seas 196 

Ilildreth's and Wood's meteorological observations at Marietta, Oiiio. .. 120 

Kane's astronomical observations in the Arctic Seas 129 

Kane's magnetic observations in the Arctic Seas 97 

Kane's meteorological observations'in the Arctic Seas 104 

Kane's physical observations in the Arctic Seas 198 

Kane's tidal observations in the Arctic Seas 130 

McClintock'.s meteorological observations in the Arctic Seas 146 

Smith's meteorological observations made near Washington, Ark 131 

Tables, distribution, and variation of atmospheric temperature 277 

Tables of rain and snow in the United States 347, 222, 353 

Schott, C. A.: Everett, J. D. Underground temperature. (R. 1874) 286 



832 CATALOUGE OF PUBLICATIONS. 

Schulze. See Cluss and Scbulze, 

Schumacher, P.— 

Ancient graves and shell heaps of California. (R. 1874) 286 

Kjokken-moddings on the northwest coast of North America. (R. 187.3)... 275 

Sen WAEZ ; Scherzer. Table of an thropological measurements. (R. 1866) 214 

Sciajna sciera, new species from Mazatlan and Panama, description of— D. S. 

Jordan; C.H.Gilbert. (P. 1884) f.07 

Science — 

Agriculture, and Arts, Society of, Lille. See Prize questions. 
Art and Literature, Society of, Hainaut. See Prize questions. 

on a dominant language for — A. De Cakdolle ; J.E.Gray. (R. 1874) 286 

in general, relation of the physical sciences to— H. Helmholtz. (R. 1871).. 249 

recent progress in. See Record. 

trust fund for promotion of, in the United States — J. Tyndall. (R. 1872) . . 271 

Sciences — 

Harlem Society of. See Prize questions. 
Letters and Arts, Society of, Dunkirk. See Prize questions. 
Natural, Society of. Cherbourg. See Prize questions. 
Royal Danish Society of. See Prize questions. 

Scientific — 

and technical periodicals, catalogue of — H. C. Bolton 546,514 

and Literary Institute of Lombardy. See Prize questions. 

character and researches of Smithson — W. R. Johnson 327 

Congress of Carlsruho, 1858— F. J. NiCKL^s. (R. 1860) 147 

co-operation— University of Toronto. (R.1861) 140 

education of mechanics and artisans — A.P. Peabody. (R. 1872) 271,380 

exchanges. See Exchanges. 

expedition to Mexico by French Government. (R. 1864) 168 

instructions to Captain Hall— J. Henry; J. E. Hilgard; S. Newcomb; S. 

F.Baird; F.B.Meek; L.Agassiz. (R.1871) 249 

investigation in Russian America, suggestions relative to — J.Henry 207 

labors of Edward Lartet— F. Fischer. (R. 1872) 271 

observations, on metric system for — A. Guyot. (R. 1848) I 

progress, re^iorts of — 

(R.1880) 442,427, 428, 429, 430, 431, 432 

(R. 1881) 515, 483, 484, 485, 486, 487, 488 

(R. 1882) 540,525, 526, 527, 528, 529, 530, 531, 532, 533, 534 

(R.1883) 593,574, 575, 576, 577, 578, 579, 580, 581, 582, 583 

(R. 1884) 623,609, 610, 611, 612, 613, 614, 615, 616, 617, 618 

(R.1885) 649,632,633,634, 638, 639,640,641,642, 643 

researchesof J. C.A.Peltier— F.A.Peltier. (R. 1867) 215 

societies, local, organization of— -J. Henry. (R. 1875) 298 

writings of James Smithson 327 

writings of Joseph Henry 558, 550 

writings of Sir William Herschel- E. S. IIolden; G. S. Hastings. (R. 

1880) 442,426 

Scintillation of the stars— C. DuFOUR ; Kamtz. (R. 1861) 149 

Scops, review of American species of genus — R. Ridgway. (P. 1878) 332 

Scolopendrellidae, genera of the— J. A. Ryder. (P. 1882) 518 

SCUDDER, S. H. — 

Bibliography of orthoptera 189 

Catalogue of orthoptera of North America 189 

Nomenclator zoologicus. An alphabetical list of generic names of recent and 

fossil animals 470 

ScuDDER, S. H.,and others. Insects of Arctic America 342 



CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 833 

Sculpture, Maya, remarks on ancient relic of— A. Schott. (R. 1871) 249 

Sculptured stone found in St. George, New Brunswick — J. Am.kn Jack. (R 

1881) 4bl,515 

Sculptures of Santa Lucia Cosumalwhuapa in Guatemala — S. Habkl 269 

Scytalina cerdale, new species of fish from Neah Bay, "Waslungtou Territory, de- 
scription of— D. S. Jordan; C.H.Gilbert. (P. 18S0) 405 

Sea-cow, Steller's, extermination of, date of, investigations relating to— L. Stej- 

NEGER. (P. 1884) 607 

Sea-elepliant, California, account of recent capture of, with statistics relating to 

present abundance of species— C. H. Towxsend. (P. 1885) G50 

Sea, gradual approach of, upon land— S. P. Ma YBERRY. (R. 1867) Slf) 

Seal, West Indian {Monaclivs tropicaUs)—^ . W. True ; F. A. Lucas. (R. 1884, 11) 648 

Seas, the northern — J. Babinet. (R. 1869) 228 

Seaton, W. "W.J memoir of, by J. Henry. (R. 1866) '. 214 

Sebastichthys — 

carnatus, new species of rockfish from coast of California, description of — 

D.S.Jordan; C. II. Gilbert. (P. 1880) 425 

chrysomelas, new species of rockfish from coast of California, description of — 

D.S.Jordan; C. PL Gilbert. (P. 1880) 425 

eutomelas.new species of SelasHcldliys from Monterey Bay, California, de- 
scription of— D. S. Jordan; C. H. Gilbert. (P. 1880) 425 

maliger, new 6corpa»noid fish from coast of California, description of — D. S. 

Jordan; C.H.Gilbert. (P, 1880) 425 

niiniatus, new species of Sehasiiclithijs from Monterey Bay, California, descrip- 
tion of— D. S. Jordan; C. li. Gilbert. (P. 1880) 425 

mystinus, description of— D. S. Jordan; C. H. Gilbert. (P. 1831) 467 

proriger, new scorpjenoid fish from Monterey Bay, California, description 

of— D. S. Jordan; C. H. Gilbert. (P. 1880) 425 

rhodochloris, new species of Sehastichtlnjs from Monterey Bay, California, 

description of— D. S. Jordan; C. H. Gilbert. (P. 1880) 425 

serriceps, new species of rock cod from coast of California, description of — 

D.S.Jordan; C.H.Gilbert. (P. 1880) 425 

umbrosus, description of— D. S. Jordan; C. H. Gilbert. (P. 1882) 518 

Sebastoid fishes, description of seven new species of^D. S. Jordan; C. H. Gil- 
bert. (P. 1880) 425 

Secchi, a. Researches on electrical rheometry 36 

Secretary of — 

Smithsonian Institution, report of. See. Henry, J., Baird, S. F. 
Treasury, letter to, on payment of interest in coin — J. Henry. (R. 1865).. 209 
Secular — 

period of aurora borealis — D. Olmsted 81 

variationsof elements of planetary orbits— J. N. Stockwell. (R. 1871). 232, 249 

Seeds, jumping, and galls— C. V. Riley. (P. 1882) 518 

Seismograph, electro-magnetic- Professor Palmieri. (R. 1870) 244 

Seismology, vulcanology and, account of progress in — C. G. ROCKWOOD, jr. (R. 

1884; R. 1885) 616,634,62:5,649 

Selachians in National Museum, description of— S. Garman. (P. 1885) 650 

Selasphorus torrid us, Selvin, note on— R. RiDGWAY. (P. 1384) 607 

Soma, note on— D. S. Jordan. (P. 1S80) 425 

Scmjier's method of making dry preparations — J. A. Ryder. (P- 1881) 467 

Senate Judiciary Committee, report of, on management of Smithsonian— A. P. 

Butler. (R. 1855) 77 

Senses, the — 

Sense of feeling, sense of smell. (R. 1865) 209 

Sense of taste, sense of hearing, sense of sight. (R. 1866) 214 

n. Mis. 170 53 



834 CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 

S^quard. See Browu-S6quard. 

Series, conver<5ii)!^, expressing ratio of diameter and circumference of a circle — 

W. Fekkel 233 

Seriola stearusii, new species of amber fisli from Peusacola, Fla., description 

of— G. B.GOODE. (P. 1879) \Vi'.\ 

Sermon at funeral of Joseph Henry — S. S. Mitchell ;5r)(5 

Serpent, venom, bibliograpliy of— S. W. Mitchell 135 

Serpents — 

catalogue of— S. F. Baird ; C. Girard 49 

lecture on nature and cure of bites of — D. Brainard. (R. 1854) 75 

I)oisonou8, venoms of, researches upon — S. W. Mitchell; E. T. Reichert. 647 

Serraria, uew genus, description of — C. H. Gilbert. (P. 1884) 607 

Serrivomer beanii, new genus and species, diagnosis of— T. Gill; J. A. Ryder. 

(P. 1883) 548 

Serviss, E. F. Mounds near Edwardsvillc, Wyandotte County, Kaus. (R. 

1881) 481,515 

Seven cities of Cibola, Corouado's march in search of the — J. II. Simpson. (R. 

1869) 228,561 

Sexual characters of eiils— S. T. Cattie. (P. 1880) 425 

Shad, western gizzard, Dorosoma cepedianum heterurum, notes on — S. Wilmot. 

(P. 1878) 332 

Shakespeare, E. O. The nature of reparatory inflammation in arteries after 

ligature, etc. Toner lecture No. vil 321 

Shallenberger, T. M. Mounds in Henry and Stark Counties Illinois. (R. 

ISSl) 481,515 

Shark- 
new species from Santa Barbara, Cal., descrijjtion of — D. S. Jordan ; C. H. 

Gilbert. (P. 1882) 518 

the oil, of southern California {Galeorhinus galeus) — D. S. Jordan; C. H. 

Gilbert. (P. 1880) 425 

Sharpless, T. ; Patterson, R. Phonography. (R. 1856) 91 

Shaw, J. Mound-builders in Rock River Valley, Illinois. (R. 1877) 323 

Shea, J. G. Account of library of Indian linguistics. (R. 18G1) 149 

Shea's Indian linguistics, recommendation of — G. GiBBSand others. (R. 1861). 149 

Shell, art in, of the ancient Americans — II. "VV. Holmes. (E. 1880-'81) 542 

Shell bed skull— A. S. Tiffany. (R. 1874) 266 

Shell deposits — 

artificial, of the United States— D. G. Brinton. (R. 1866) 214,440 

artificial, in New Jersey— C. Rau. (R. 1864) 138,362 

on Short Creek, West Virgiuia— H. B. Hubbard. (R. 1881) 4§1,515 

Shell engravings granted by British Museum. (R. 1863) 187 

Shellfish and their allies, lectures on— P. P. Carpenter. (R. 1860) 147, 152 

Shell heap in Georgia— D. Brown. (R. 1871) 249 

Shell heapsT— 

and ancient graves of California- P. Schumacher. (R. 1874) 286 

and mounds in Florida — James Shepard. (R. 1885) 645, 649 

and mounds on the west coast of Florida — S. T. Walker. (R. 1883) ... 588,593 

at mouth of St. John's River, Florida — S. P. Mayberry. (R. 1877) 323 

in Alabama— Charles Mohr. (R. 1881) 481,515 

in Barnstable County, Mass. — Daniel Wing. (R. 1881) 481, 515 

in New Brunswick — J. Fowler. (R. 1870) 244 

near Provincetown, Mass.— II. E. Chase. (R. 1882) 535,540 

of Charlotte Harbor, Florida— D, H. Simons. (R. 1S82) 535, 540 

of Tampa Bay, Florida— S. T. Walker. (R. 1879) 345 

on Mobile River, Alabama— A. S. Gaines; K. M. Cunningham. (R. 1877) 323 



CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 835 

Shell mouiuls. See jMouuds. 
Shells. See Mollusca. 

acknowlotlgmcut for— W. H. Pease. (R. ISGl) 140 

American land, manual of— W. G. Binxey 549 

auricolacea of the eastern United States, revision of— W. II. Dali.. (P. 

1SS5) '^'■'^ 

bibliography of. Parts i, ii— W. G. Binney 142, 174 

duplicate, collected by United States exploring cxpedition-C. Wilkes.... 193 
from California, description of new species oi; in U. S. National Museum— 

W. H. Dall. (P. 1878) 332 

from Costa Rica kitclien-midden— W. H. Dall. (P. l«7d) 3:52 

hydrobia ( ? ) wetherby i-W. H. Dall. (P. 1885) ti'-O 

land and fresh water, instructions for colkcting-J. Lewis. (K. l-(;i.)-214, 363 

land and fresh water, Floridiau, notes on— W. H. Dall. (P. 1685) 650 

land and fresh water, of North America : 

Part I. Pulmonaia gtophiJa—W. G. Bixxey; T. Bland 194 

Part II. PuhnonataUmnophila irndThaUasojihila— ^Y.G.BlS^l:Y 143 

Part III. AmimUariidce, Valvaiidw, etc.— W. G. BiNNEY 144 

Part IV. Strepomatidcv {Amencan melanians)— G. W. Tkyox, Jr 253 

letter on— J. Lewis • *"'"' 

new and specially interesting, of the Point Barrow Exl)edItl..I.-^\ .11. Dall. 

(P. 1834) ■■ ^^' 

north American, check-list of-L Lea; P. P. Cakpextku; W. Sti.mpsox; 

W. G. Bixney; T. Prime ■'■28 

north American, circulac in reference to collecting 176 

of Gulf of California, lectures on the-P. P. Carpenter. (R. 18,.9) - 110 

of Panama, collected by C. B. Adams, descriptions of new species and ^_ ^ 

varieties of ChUonidw and AcmwUloi in-P. P. Carpenter ~;_)^ 

Onchidium floridanum, new species of-W. H. Dall. (P. 1885) G^>0 

Pedipes elongatus, new species of-W. H. Dall. (P. 1885) . - . - - - - boO 

presented to Academy of Natural Sciences, report on-.T. Leidy ; G. W . 

Tryox. (R. 1865) • -f-* 

request for duplicate-W. E. Logan. (R. 1859) --------- ^.,^" 

Pnpillafloridana, new species of-W. H. Dall. (P; IS^-); ^f^ 

Savella crosseana, new species of-W. H. Dall. (?• If^)-;; ^f 

Sayella, new subgenus, from Florida-W. H. Dall. (P. IS^^-O 6..0 

Turbinella pyrum, note on-W. H. Dall. (P. 188o) ■"-•■■■■ -• j 

Shepard, James. SheH heaps and mounds in Flonda (R. 188o)^ 64.,,(4J 

SHEPARD,C.U. Arrangement of mineralogical collection. (I^' /^b )-_- 1^^^ 

Shepard, E. M. Deposit of arrow-heads near Fi.shk.ll, N. \. (R.lb./) ^>^^ 

Sherman, W. T.— ^-g 

Memorial address on J. Henry ■.■■."■■ ' ' -V ' i eso" ' (R 'l'^7q* 

Report of National Museum Building Commission, ^^'^'^^^'^^^^^^^^^^^^^ 

Sheward, J.iMES. Chautauqua County, N. Y. (I^- 1^-|>: " " ^ „,, 

Shetland, vegetable colonization of-C. MARTINS (R.1^^^^^^ -- ^ 

Shippin- fresh fish and other animals, circular relative to-S. 1 • ^-^^"i- 

sSLrke,LakeWinnipeg,eggingexpcditionto-D.GUNN. (R. 180.) -.•■ 

Shooting stars, observations on-S.MASTERMAN. (R. 18..7)^..-.. - ^- 

Short Creek, W.Va., shell deposits on-H.W HUBBARD f^'^l^——' '• 
Shoshone Indians, religion, saporstitions, and manners of-A. ^■^^^'^''^^^^ ' | ■ ^^^^ .^^, 
SHUFELDT!^^''(^n:;;nh;g^;c;fihe'fonnsa;;,;i;;^bythepatellainbird ^_^^^ 
with 7 figures in the text, (P. 1884) 



836 CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 

Shufeldt, E. W.— Continaed. 

Description of Hesperomys truei, a new species belonging to the subfamily 

Murines. With Plate XXi. (P. 1885) 650 

Fishes collected by, in vicinity of New Orleans, list of— D. S. Jordan. (P. 

1884) GOT 

Observations upon a collection of insects made in the vieiuity of New Orleans, 
La., during the years 1882 and 1833. (With 1 figure iu the test. ) (P. 

1884) ()07 

Remarks upon osteology of OpTieosaurua ventralis. (P.1881). 467 

Siberia — 

descriptions of new fishes from— T. H. Bean. (P. 1881 ) 467 

notes on birds collected in— T. H. Bean. (P. 1832) 518 

Sibley, H. Meteorological telegrams by Western Union Telegraph Company. 

(R.1862) 150 

SlBLEY,H.F. Antiquities of Wayne County, 111. (R. 1881) 481,515 

Sidera — 

castanea, description of— D. S.Jordan; C.H.Gilbert. (P. 1882) 518 

chlevastes from Galapagos Island, description of^D. S.Jordan; C.H.Gil- 
bert. (P. 1883) 548 

Siganidse, genera of, synopsis of— T. Gill. (P. 1884) G07 

Sight, sense of (R. 1866) 214 

Sigmops stigmaticus, new genus and species of, synopsis of— T. Gill. (P. 1883) . 543 
Sign language — 

among North American Indians— G.Mallery. (E. 1879-80) 476 

ofdeafmutes— G.Mallery. (E, 1879-80) 476 

Signal mounds of Butler County, Ohio— J. P. MacLean. (R. 1882) 535, 540 

Siluridse of fresh waters of North America, synopsis of — D. S. Jordan 306 

Silver- 
coins, assay of, at United States Mint- J. Pollock. (R. 1868; 224 

coins, foreign, table of, (R. 1868) 224 

crosses from an Indian grave-mound at Coosawattee Old Town, Murray 

County, Ga.— Charles C. Jones, Jr. (R. 1881) 481,515 

gold, and other ornaments found in Florida— J. Francis Le Baron. (R. 

1882) 535,540 

lamprey in Louisiana, notes on — T. H. Bean. (P. 1832) 518 

Silvered-g] ass telescope, on construction of— H. Draper 180 

Silversmiths, Navajo— W. Matthews. (E. 1880-1881).. 542 

Simons, M. H. Shell heaps of Charlotte Harbor, Fla. (R. 1882) 535, 540 

Simpson, G. Letter to officers of Hudson's Bay Company relative to scientific 

researches 137 

Simpson, J. H. Coronado's march in search of the seven cities of Cibola. (R. 

1869) 228,561 

SiMSON, R. Meteorite in Mexico. (R. 1867) 215 

Sioux. See Dakota. 

Indians— A. G. Brackett. (R.1876) 299 

Indians, language of the— F. L. O. Roehrig. (R. 1871) 249, 378 

languages, comparative phonology of— J. Owen Dorsey. (R. 1883). .588, 593, 605 

nation of the upper Missouri— T. A. Culbertson. (E. 1850) 28 

Siphonostoma, described specimen of, in National Museum, annotated list of— R. 

Rathbun. (P.1884) 607 

Siphostoma — 

Carbarae, new species, from Key West, Fla.— J. Swain ; S. E. Meek. (P. 

1884) 607 

McKay's, new species, from Key West, Fla.— J. Swain; S. E. Meek. (P. 1884) 607 
Siredon lichenoides, observations on— W. E. Carlin. (P. 1881) 46? 



CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 837 

Six Nations, waiiipmu belts of the— W. M. Bkauciiamp. (R. 1879) 345 

Skeleton of Fkoca ( Illstiopuocd) fasciala—F. W. Tiu;e. ( P. 168;'.) 548 

Skeletons — 

of birds, suggestions for saving parts of— A. Mkwtox. (R. IdGO) 147 

o( Etheostomatinw, note on — D. S. Jordan ; C. IL Eigenman. (P. lSc)5) G'>0 

rough, preparation of, notes on — F. A. Lucas. (P. 1885) 650,626 

Skull— 

and long bones from mounds near Albany, 111.— R. J. Fauquhausox. (R. 

1874) 286 

human, from Rock Bluff, 111., description of— J. A. Meigs. (R. 18G7) 215 

human, present state of ethnology in relation to form of the— A. Retzius. 

(E.1859) 110 

shell-bed, from Rock Island, 111. — A. S. Tiff an y. (R. 1874) 28G 

trephined- O. T. Mason. (P. 1835) 650 

Skulls and mummy from Patagonia — A. Ried, (R. 18G2) 150 

Slade, Elisha. On domesticated hybrid ducks (Anas boschas-{-oiscura). (P. 

1884) 607 

Slider terrapin, heart of, influence of variation of temi)erature on — H. G. Beyer. 

(P. 1885) G50 

Sloth tribe of North America, extinct — J. Leidy 72 

Smallwood, C. Description of observatory at St. Martin, Isle Jesus, Canada 

East. (R. 1856) 91 

Smart, C. Notes on the Tonto Apaches. (R. 18G7) 215 

Smell, sense of. (R. 1865) 209 

Smelt, surf, of northwest coast, and method of taking by Indians — J. G. Swan. 

(P. 1880) 425 

Smith, B. Spanish works on New Mexico. (R. 1855) 77 

Smith, C. D. Ancient mica mines in North Carolina. (R. 1876) 299 

Smith, C. M. Sketch of Flint Ridge, Licking County, Ohio. (R. 1884) 620,623 

Smith, E. A. Myths of the Iroquois. (E. 1880-1881) 542 

Smith, J. L. Lecture on meteoric stones. (R. 1855) 77 

Smith, John P. Antiquities of Washington County, Md. (R.18S2) 535, .540 

Smith, J. W. C. Antiquities of Yazoo County, Miss. (R. 1874) 2HG 

Sr.UTH, N. D. Meteorological observations made near Washington, Ark 131 

Smith, R. — 

Description of a new species of Uranidea (Uranidta rhothea) from Spokane 

River, Washington Territory. (P. 1882) 518 

Description of new gpbioid fish (Othonops eos) from San Diego, Cal. (P. 1881) 4G7 
Description of new species of gobiesox (Goilesox rhcssodon) fron Sau Diego, 

Cal. (P. 1881) 4G7 

Note on the occurrence of Gasterosteus wilUamsoni, Grd., in an artesian well 

at San Bernardino, Cal. (P. 1883) 548 

Notes on fishes collected at San Cristobal, Lower California, by Mr. Charles 

H. Townsend, assistant, U. S. Fish Commission. (P. 1834) 607 

Notes on the fishes of Todos Santos Bay, Lower California. (P. 188o) , 548 

Occurrence of species of cremnobates at San Diego, Cal. (P. 1880) 425 

On the life of the young of Pomaceni?'W8 rM6icu«(Zus. (P. 1382) 518 

The life colors of Cremnobates iniegripinnio. (P. 1883) 548 

Smith, Rosa; Swain, Joseph. Notes on a collection of fishes from Johnson's 

Island, including description of five new species. (P. 1882) 518 

Smith, S. B. On the Chinook names of salmon in Columbia River. (P. 1881).. 467 
Smith, S.I — 

Crustaceans of Kergnelan Island 294 

Description of a new crustacean allied to Homarus and Nephrops {Eune- 

phrops ta(7-rfii, n. g. and n. s.). (P. 1885) 650 



838 CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 

Smith, S. I.— Continued. 

List of the Crustacea dredged on tlie coast of Labrador by tlio expedition under 
the direction of W. A. Stearns, in 1882. {Rhachotropis, nom. g. n) (P. 

1883) 548 

Notice of Crustacea dredged off south coast of New England in 1880. (P. 

1880) 425 

Notice of new species of Willemwsia groun of Crustacea (recent Eryontidw). 

(P. 1879) ." 3:« 

Occurrence of Chelura terebrans (crustacean destructive to timber) on coast 

of United States. (P. 1879) , 333 

On some genera and species of PenceidcB mostly from recent dredgings of the 
U. S. Fish Commission {Parapenoetis, n. g., P. megalops, P. goodei, Hy- 

vienopcnasus roiustus, E. modestiis, nn. ss.). (P. 1885) 650 

On some new or little known decapod Crustacea, from recent Fish Commis- 
sion dredgings off the east coast of the United States ( A namathia, nom. 
g. n. ; Mimidopsis erassa, M. similis, Bythocaris gracilis, B. nana, Acan- 
thepliyramicroplithalma, A. hrevirostris, nn. ss. ; Ephyrina, n. g. ; Epluj- 
rina henedicii, n. s. ; BentJionectes, n. g. ; Bentlioncdes fiUpes, n. s.). (P. 

1884) 607 

Preliminary report on the BracJiyura and Anomura dredged in deep water off 
the south coast of New England by the U. S. Fish Commission in 1S80, 
1881, and 1882 (Amathia tanneri, Collodes rohustus, Cymopolia gracilis, 
Sympagurus pictus, Munida valida, Eumunida picta, AnoplonoUis politus). 

(P.lfe83) 548 

Review of the marine Crustacea of Labrador. (P. 1883) 548 

Smithson fund, memorial of Regents to Congress relative to the. (R. 1850) 28 

Smithson, James — 

act of Congress to receive residuary legacy of. (R. 1866) 214,329 

and his bequest— W. J. Rhees. (R. 1879) 345,330 

catalogue of library of 3:',0 

character and researches of — W. R. Johnson 327 

contributions to Annals of Philosophy by. (R. 1853) 67, 330 

exjmsition of bequest of^J. Henky E 

letter from Richard Rush relative to. (R. 18.53) 67, 328 

letters from Fladgate, Clark, and Finch, relative to. (R. 1861) 149, 328 

life of— by W. J. Rhees. (R. 1879) 345,330 

list of papers presented to Royal Society by. (R. 1853) 67,330 

notice of, by D. Gilbert, president of the Royal Society. (R. 1853) 67, 330 

personal effects of 328, .330 

scientific writings of 327 

will of. (R. 1853) 67,328,330 

will of, fac simile of 330 

works and character of— J. R. McD. Irby 327 

Smithsonian Institution — 

act to establish. /See Congress. 

address on the— J. Henry. (R. 1853) E, 67 

Building, reconstruction of eastern portion of, report of architects. (R. 1884) 623 

Building, report on use of new hall in— L. Agassiz. (R. 1867) 215 

Bulletin No. i. Vocabulary of the jargon 68 

business arrangements of the 325 

Contributions to Knowledge. See Contributions. 

directory of officers, collaborators, and employ6s of the 466 

establishment and officers of the 449 

exchanges, history of the— S. H. Bokhmer. (R. 1881) 515,477 

Journals of Regents, reports of committees, statistics, etc.— W. J. Rhkes. .. 329 



CATALOGUE OP PUBLICATIONS. 839 

Sinitlisoiiiaii Institution — Contimiod. 

luiiyuetic observatory at, (loscriptiou of — J E. Him'.akd. (R. lH.")i)) 110 

Miscellaneous Collections. See Miscellaneous Collections. 

origin and history of— W.J. Riikks 328 

publications. See Publications. 

publications, catalogue and index of — W.J. Riikks 478 

report of American Academy of Arts and Sciences on the. (R. isf) ;) 07 

report of Senate Judiciary Conunittce on management of — A. 1*. Butleu. 

(R. 1855) 77 

reports. See Reports. 

views and plans of the — R. D. Owen P 

Snake Den, Iowa, mounds at— W. V. Banta ; John Garketsox. (R. 1S81) . . .4dl, 51.') 
Snake Indians, religion, superstition, and manners of — A. G. Brack ett. (R. 

1879) ;515 

SxELL, E. S. Lecture on planetary disturbances. (R. 1855) 77 

Snell's barometic observations, discussion of — F. H. Luuo. (R. 1880) 41-2, 435 

Snow — 

hunting {Plectrojahenaxhyperboreus), new species, from Alaska — R. Ridgwa Y. 

(P. 1884) C07 

charts. See Rain. 

electricity during fall of— F. Zantedeschi. (R. 1870) 244 

gauge— W. E. Guest. R. 1858) K*'.' 

gauges— R. H. Gardinek. (R. 1858) l"'-" 

line, Norwegian— O, E. Dreutzer. (R. 186G) *~14 

observations of !•'" 

tables of precipitation in — C. A. Schott 547,222, 353 

Snyder, J. F. — 

Buried flints in Cass County, 111. (R. 1881) 481,515 

Deposit of stone implements in Illinois. (R. 1876) ^-''-^ 

Indian remains in Cass County, III. (R. 1881) 481 , 515 

Soapstone quarry, aboriginal, in Alabama— Charles Moiir. (R. 1881) 481,515 

Social and religious condition of the lower races of man — J. Lubbock. (R. 18t>9) '22S 
Societies, ^ee Holland, Belgium, publications. 

list of, in United States and British Provinces — W. J. Riiees. 1H> 

local scientilic, organization of— J. Henry. (R. 1875) 298 

proceedings of, relative to .loseph Heurj^ •^•'<> 

publications of, in Smithsonian Library, 1854, 1856, 1858, 1866.. .73, 85, 117, 179 
Society — 

Batavian, of Experimental Philosophy, Rotterdam. Prize <iuestions. (R. 

1861) 149 

Bath and West of England, for Encouragement of Agricultural Arts, etc. 

Exchange system, (R. 1867) -!•''> 

for Encouragement of Science, Dunkirk. See Prize questions. 
Society of — 

Arts and Sciences, Utrecht. Prize questions. (R. 1861) 119 

Natural History, Portland, Mo., account of— E. C. Bollks. (R. H67) 215 

Natural Sciences, Cherbourg. See Prize questions. 
Physics and Natural History of Geneva. See Geneva. 
Science, Agriculture, and Arts of Lille. See Prize questions. 
Science, Art, and Literature, Hainaut. See Prize ciuestions. 
Sciences, Harlem. See Prize questions. 

Sciences, Letters, and Arts, Dunkirk. See Prize questions. 
Sciences, Royal Danish. See Prize questions. 

Victoria, address of president— R. L. J. Eixery. ( R. 1 868) 224 

Sociology, Omaha— J. O. Dorsey. (E. 1881-'82) I'^H 



840 CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 

SoiiNCKE, L. Law of variation of temj)erature in ascending moist currents of 

air, (K. 1877) r>23,398 

Solar — 

diurnal variation in magnetic declination — A. D. Baciie 113, 121 

diurnal variation in vertical component of magnetic force — A. D. Bache. .. 175 

eclipse of April 25, 1865— Baron de Prados, CR. 1864) 138 

eclipse of July 18, 1860— J. Lamont. (R. 1864) 188 

system, harmonies of the — S. Alexander 280 

Soleuiscus of Meek and Worthen, remarks on — C. A. WniTE, (P. 1883) 548 

Solids- 
specific heat of— F. "W. Clarke 276 

tables of expansion of — by heat — F. W. Clarke 289 

Solitary wasps, synopsis of— H. De Saussure 254 

SoNNTAG, A. Observations on terrestrial magnetism in Mexico 114 

Sonora — 

Guaymas, birds found at, in December, 1832, and April, 1873, list of — L. Bel- 

BiXG. (P. 1883) 548 

plants collected in, by C. Wright — A. Grat 22 

Sound — 

refraction of— W. B. Taylor. (R. 1875) 298,595 

researches in — J. Henry. (R. 1878) 341,406 

Soundings, microscopical examination of — J. W. Bailey 20,23 

Sounds, vocal, of Laura Bridgman — F. Lieber 12 

South America — 

birds of, not in U. S. National Museum — R. Ridgwa Y. (P. 18S1 ) 467 

Caracas, meteorology of — G.A.Ernst. (R. 1367) 215 

circular relativ^e to collections of birds from 168 

rain-fallin- C. A. SCHOTT 222,353 

travels in — S. Habel 269 

South Carolina — 

description of new hake from — T. H. Bean. (P. 1880) 425 

fishes of— D. S.Jordan; A. W. Brayton 308 

microscopical observations in — J. W. Bailey 23 

Southern Baptist Missionary Society. Yoruba grammar and dictionary 98 

Southern States — 

antiquities in the— H. C. Williams. (R. 1880) 244 

microscopical observations in the — J. W. Bailey 23 

Space and time, lecture on the relations of — S. Alexander. (R. 1861) 149 

Spainhour, J. Antiquities in Lenoir County, N. C. (R. 1871) 249 

Spanish — 

vocabulary, with comparative words in English, French, and Latin 170 

works on New Mexico, by Buckingham Smith, communications relative to 

publication of. (R. 1855) 77 

Sparisoma — 

cyalonene, new species, description of — D. S. Jordan ; J. Swain. (P. 1884) . 607 

lorits, new species, description of— D. S. Jordan; J. Swain. (P. 1884) 607 

xystrodon, new species, description of— D. S. Jordan; J. Swain. (P. 1884). 607 

Sparks, J., and others — 

On publication of Spanish works on New Mexico. (R. 1855) 77 

Report of American Academy of Art and Sciences on organization of Smith- 
sonian Institution. (R. 1853) 67 

S[)aroid fish, new (Sparus brachysomus) from Lower California — W. N. Locking- 

TOx\. (P.1880) 425 

Sparrow, new {Vcucxva mexicana (Law) to the United States — R. Ridgwa Y. (P. 

1885) 650 



CATALOGUE OP PUBLICATIONS. 841 

Sparrows — 

seut to Uui tod States — W.A.Lloyd. (K.1867) 215 

two hitherto unnauicd, from tho coast of Californui — K. IIidgway. (P. 1881) G07 
Sparus — 

brachysomus, now sparoid fish, from Lower California, description of— W. 

N. LOCKINGTON. (P.1880) 4'25 

genus, note on— T. Gill. (P.1882) 518 

pagrus, notes on— G. B. Goode ; T. H. Bean. (P. 1881) 607 

Specific gravity — 

bibliography of— F. W. Clarke 255 

of sea water — D. Walker 146 

tables. Constants of Nature, Part i— F. W. Clarke 255 

tables. First supplement to Constants of Nature, Part i — F. W. Clarke ... 288 
Specific heat — 

bibliography of— F. W. Clarke 276 

tables. Constants of Nature, Part II — F.W.Clarke 276 

Specimens — 

acknowledged by British Museum. (R. 1865) 209 

acknowledged by Chicago Academy of Sciences. (K.1867) 215 

authority to collectors of customs to receive and transmit to Smithsonian In- 
stitution 34 

authority to naval officers to receive and transmit to Smithsonian Institu- 
tion 34 

authority to quartermasters of War Department to receive and transmit to 

Smithsonian Institution 34 . 

derived from expeditions — S. F. Baird. (R. 1867) _ 215 

exchange of — 

Hamburg Zoological Garden. (R. 1867) 215 

W. A. Lloyd. (R. 1867) 215 

University of Costa Rica. (R. 1867) 215 

University of Greece. (R. 1867) 215 

from Brazil, presented— M. M. Lisboa. (R. 1865) 209 

large myological, rapid preparation of — F. Plateau. (P. 1881) 467 

of flamingo from south Florida, presented— G. Wurdeman. (R. 1860) 147 

of natural history, directions for collecting, pieserving, and transporting — 

S.F. Baird. (R. 1856) 91,94 

presented, circular sent with — J.Henry. (R. 1872) 271 

receipts and distribution of — (R. 1880) 442 

rules for examination of— (R. 1880) 442 

type, lending of— S. F. Baird. (P. 1886) 637 

Spectrum analysis applied to the heavenly bodies — W. Huggins. (R. 1866)... 214 

Spencer's telescope, examination of, for Hamilton College. (R. 1855) 77 

Sphairiiun costaricense, new species of, description of — P. Tkmple. (P. 1884) .. 607 

Spheres, tangencies of — B. Alvord 80 

Spinivomer Goodei, new genus and species of, diagnosis of — T.Gill; J.A.Ry- 
der. (P. 1883) 548 

Spizella wortheni, new species of, from New Mexico — R. Ridgw.\y. (P. 1884) .. 607 

Spleen, observations on — J. Jones ^~ 

Spokane River, Washington Territory, new species of Uranidea from-^R. Smith. 

(P.1882) ". olS 

Sponge, a new type of ( Camaraphysema) — J. A. Ryder. ( P. 1880) 425 

Sponges — 

fresh- water, from Mexico— E. Potts. P, 1885) 650 

of the United States at London Fisheries Exhibition in 1883, catalogue of— 

R.Rathbun 511,521,552 



842 CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 

Sponges — Continueil. 

Spoon River Valley, lUiuois, mounds iu — W. H. Adams. (R. 1881 ; R. 

1883) 481,515; 588,593 

Spotte(J dolphin, apparently identical with Prodelphiniis doris of Gray — F. W. 

True. (R. 1884, ii) 648 

Spruce Creek Valley, Pennsylvania, account of tornado in — J. B. Meek. (R. 

1871) -...'. 249 

Squalius alici^ from Utah Lake— P. L. JouY. (P. 1881) 467 

Squier, E. G.— 

Aboriginal monuments of State of New York 15 

Antiquities of Nicaragua. (R. 1850) 28 

Squier, E. G.,and others. On publication of Spanish works on New Mexico. (R. 

1855) 77 

Sqxjier.E.G.; Davis, C.H.— 

Ancient monuments of the Mississipi Valley 1 

Correspondence relative to memoir by. (R. 1847) H, K 

Stalked crinoids collected by steamer Albatross in 1884 aud 1885, report on — 

R.Rathbux. (P.1885) 650 

Stanley's gallery of Indian portraits, report of Committee of Regents on the. 

(R. 1857) 107 

Stanley, J. M. Catalogue of portraits of North American Indians 53 

Stantok.E.M. Deposit of Beaufort Library. (R. 1862) 150 

Stark County, III., mounds in — T. M. Shallenberger. (R. 1881) 481,515 

Star clusters, bibliography of — E. S. Holden 311 

Stars — 

index catalogue of— E. S. Holden 311 

movement of, around a central point — J. H. Maedler. (R. 1859) 110 

near the North Pole, map of, for observations on auroras 350 

scintillation of the— C. DUFOUR ; Kamtz. (R. 1861) 149 

State Department. Circular to diplomatic agents relative to Morgan's re- 
search 138 

Stations, meteorological, of Smithsonian Institution. {Sec also List) 373 

Statistics — 

of British Museum— S. F. Baird. (R. 1850) 28 

of Norwegian mountains, lakes, and snow line — O. E. Dreutzer. (R. 1866). 214 

of Smithsonian Institution, finances, exchanges, etc., 1846-1877 329 

relating to present abundance of California sea-elephant — C. H. TowNSEND. 

(P.1885) 650 

Stathmonotus hemphillii, new genus and new species — T. H. Bean. (P. 1885).. 650 

Statue of Joseph Henry, proceedings of Congress relative to 356 

Statues, plaster casts of — W. J. Stone. (R. 1855) 77 

Stearns, J. Translation of Babinet on diamonds and precious stones. (R. 

1870) , 244,377 

Stearns, R. E. C. Description of a new genus and species of Alceynoid Polypi 
from Japanese waters, with remarks on the structure and habits of 

related forms, etc, {Badicipcs pleurocristatus). (P. 1883) 548 

Stearns, S.— 

catalogue of fishes from Pensacola, collected by — G. B. Goode ; T. II. Bean. 

(P. 1879) 333 

collection of fishes from Pensacola, Fla.,by, notes on — D.S.Jordan. (P. 

1884) , 607 

description of new species of amber fish {Sehola stearnsil) obtained near 

Pensacola, by — G. B. Goode ; T. H. Bean. (P. 1879) 333 

new species of fishes collected by, at Pensacola, Fla., description of — D. S. 

Jordan; J.Swain. (P. 1884) 607 



CATALOHUK OF PUBLICATIONS 843 

Stearns, S — Cojitiiiued. 

Note on Gulf munluuleu, Brecoortia imtronm. (P. 1878) :'^*l 

Notes on the Gri-at Dolpbiu, Coryphtena liippwrus, Linu6. ( P. 1885) C50 

Stkaens, W. a. — 

expedition to Labrador in 1S82, raollnsks and ecliinodermata from, catalogno 

of— K.J. Bush. (P. 1883) rA3 

expedition to Labrador, ihsck-wi from, list of— S. I. Smith. (P. 188:1) r.48 

Nofc«s on the natural hist ory of Labrador. (P. 1883) .548 

Stebbins, R. P. Memoir of LonisAgassiz. (R. 1873) 275 

Steindachnkk, F. Xoto on Pcrca flavescens. (P. 1878) 33:2 

Stejnegkr, L. — 

Contributions to the history of the Commander Islands — 

No. 1. NotoN i)n the natural history, including dcsi^riptions of new Ce^tn- 

wau& (Bcrardius bairdii ; Ziphiua grehnilzkii). (P. 1883) 548 

No. 2. Investigations relating to the date of ( In- extermination of Steller's 

sea-cow (P. 1884) GOT 

No. 4. B. — Additional notes on the plants of the Commander Islands 

( Cassiope oxycoccoides, Asa Gray, u. s). (P. 1884) 607 

Description of two new races of Myadeites obscurus. (P. 1881) 467 

Notes on some apparently preoccnpied ornithological generic names. (P. 

1885) _ 650 

On some generic and specitio appellations \)f North American and European 

birds. (P. 1882) 518 

On the use of trinominals in American ornithology. (P. 1884) 607 

Outlines of a monograph on the Cygnix^. (P. 1882) 518 

Passer saturatus, a new species of tree-sparrow from the Liu Kin Islands, 

Japan. (P. 1883) 656 

Remai'ks on the species of the ucn n- Cepphus. (P. 1884) tiOT, 

Remarks on the systematic arrangement of the American Tnrdidm. (P. 

1882) 518 

Resultsof ornithological explorations in Ik Commander Islands and in Kamt- 

schatka 624 

Steller's sea-cow. (P. 1884) 6i»7 

Synopsis of the West India Myadestes. (P. 1882) 518 

Stelle, J. P.— 

Account of aboriginal ruins in Hardin County, Tenn. (R. 1870) 244 

Account of aboriginal ruins at Savannah, Teun. (R. 1870) 244 

Steller's sea-cow, extermination of, ibitc of, investigations relating to— L. Stej- 

neger. (P. 1884) 607 

Stephanoberyx monaj, new genus and speci-s of, synopsis of — T. Gill. (P. 

1883 •'^48 

Stephenson, M. F. — 

Account of ancient mounds in Georgia. (R. 1870) 244 

•.1111(1- in Bartow County, Georgia. (R. 1872) ~~1 

Stereotype catalogue of public librari<\s, report of Commissioners on. (R. 1850) 28, 47 

Stereotyped titles for library catalogues— C. C. Jewett 47 

Si.rnoptychidiE, note on the— T. GiLL. (P. 1884) 607 

Stevens, H. Prospectus of m bibliographia Americana. (R. 1848) I 

Stevens, J. A. Memoir of George Gibbs. (R. 1873) 275 

Stevenson, J.— 

Report of t- xplorations in New Mexico and Arizona. ( R. 1880) 442 

Illustrated catalogue of collections obtained from the Indians of New Mexico 

and Arizona in 1879. (E. 1880-'81) ^42 

Uhistrated catalogue of collections obtained from the Indians of New Mex- 
ico, in 1-8'. (E.l-80-'81) ^'^2 



844 CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 

Stevenson, J. Coutinued. 

Illustrated catalogao of the collections obtained from the Pueblos of New 

M.xico and Arizona in 188L (E. 188l-'82) 631 

Stewart, B. Experiments on aneroid barometers at Kew Observatory. (K. 18G8) 224 

Stichffius puuctatus, occurrence of, St. Michael's, Alaska — T. H. Beax. (P. 

1878) 332 

Stimpson, W.— 

Check-list of the shells of North America 128 

On collection and preservation of marine invertebrates 34 

Eesearches upon the nydroMinm and allied forms 201 

Synopsis of the marine iuvertebrata of Grand Manan 50 

Sting-rays, generic name of— S. Garman. (P. 1885) 650 

Stinson, Floyd. Mounds and earthworks in Vanderburg County, Ind. (R. 

1881) 481,515 

Stock-in-trade of an aboriginal lapidary — C. Rau. (R. 1877) 323, 440, 402 

Stockholm Academy of Sciences. Acknowledgment of birds. (R. 1867) 215 

Stockwell, J. N. Secular variations of elements of orbits of the eight princi- 
pal planets. (R.1871) 249,232 

Stone, Livingston. Does the panther {Felia concolor) go into the water to kill 

fish? (P. 1882) 518 

Stone, W. J. On plaster casts of statues. (R. 1855) 77 

Stone — 

celts in the West Indies and Africa — G. J. Gibes. (R. 1877) 323 

chipping; observations on— G. E. Sellers. (R. 1885) 645, 649 

cists ueiir Highland, Madison County, 111.— A. Oehler. (R. 1879) 345 

drillingin, without metal— C. Rau. ■(R.1868) 224,440,372 

fort near Makanda, Jackson County, 111.— G. H. French. (R. 1881) 481, 515 

heai)s in Jefferson County, Ala. — William Gesner. (R. 1881) 481, 515 

image in Tennessee, account of discovery of— E. M. Grant. (R. 1870) 244 

implements, North American— C. Rau. (R. 1872) 271,440,382 

mounds of Hampshire County, W. Va.— L. A. Kengla. (R. 1883) 588, 593 

period. North American, agricultural implements of the— C. Rau. (R. 

1863) 187,440 

Stone age — 

and the troglodytes of Breckinridge County, Ky. — R. S. Robertson. (R. 

1874) \ 286 

fauna of middle Europe during the — L. Rxjtijie yer. (R. 1861) 149 

in New Jersey— C. C. Abbott. (E. 1875) 298,394 

tablet, perforated, from New York — William Wallace Tooker. (R. 

1881) 481,515 

Stones. See Building, Ornamental, Precious stones. 

precious, collection of, plan for— F. W.Clarke. (P. 1884) 599,607 

preciou.s— J. Babinet. (R. 1870) 244,377 

Store-honse, primitive, of the Creek Indians— C. C. Jones, jr. (R. 18a5) 645, 649 

Storm in Butler County, Kans., June 23, 1871— W. Harrison. (R. 1871) 249 

Storms — 

in Europe and America, December, 1836 — E. LoOMis 127 

magnetic — E.Sabine. (R. I860) 147 

of 1859— J. H. Coffin 162 

thunder, instructions for observations of— -J. Henry 235 

Strain and over-action of the heart. Toner lecture No. iii— J. M. Da Costa.. . 279 

Strait of Juan de Fuca^- 

description of new species of Paralepii {Paralepia coruscaus) from — D. S. 

Jordan; C.H.Gilbert. (P. 188v1i) 425 

Indians of— J. G. Swan 220 



CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 845 

Strang, J. J. Natural History of Beaver Island, Micbigun. (R. 185.1) 75 

Streets, T. H. Contributions to natural bistoryof Hawaiian Islands, Fauniu^r 

Islands, and Lower California ;50:5 

Streets, Thomas, H., M. D., U. S. Navy. A study of tlio rhronimida; of tlio 

Nortb Pacific surveying expedition. (P. 1882) 518 

StrepomatidcB (American melanians) — G. W. Tryox 253 

Stricklandia — 

Davidsoni, note on tbo occurrence of, iu Georgia— C. A. Wiiitk. (P. IHSO).. 425 

Salteri,tiote on tbo occurrence of, in Georgia — C. A. Wuhk. (T. IS-U) 425 

Striped bass — 

' note on seientitic name of— D. S. JoRDAX. (P. 1S85) f,50 

occnrreuce of, in Lower Mississippi Valley— T. II. Bkan. (P. Iddl) (,07 

Strombella — ■ 

callorhina var. stejnegci, from the Commander Islands, description of— W. 

H Dall. (P. 1884) 007 

raalleata, new species, from Point Barrow expedition— W. II. Dam.. (P. 

la^^l) G07 

Strong, M. — 

Antiquities in AVisconsin. (E. 1877) 323 

Observations on tbe prebistoric mounds of Grant County, Wis. (11. I87i)) .. 299 

Structure — 

internal, of tbe eartb — J. G. Barnard 310 

of cancerous tumors. Toner lecture No. i — J. J. Woodward 2(JG 

Structures — 

Aboriginal, in Carroll County, Tenn. — James M. Null. (K. 1882) 535, ,540 

aboriginal, in Georgia— C. C. Jones, Jr. (R. 1877) :52;i,400 

Subcutaneous surgery. Toner lecture No. vi — W. Adams 302 

Sudis ringens, new species of scopeloid fisb from Santa Barbara cbannel, Cab, 

description of— D. S. Jordan ; C. 11. Gilbert. (P. 1880) 425 

SUESS, E. Boundary line between geology and history. (R. 1872) 271 

Sun— 

chemical analysis of tbo— A. Laugel. (R. 18(31) 149 

disk of the, external appearance of. (R. 1866) 214 

eclipse of the, September 7, 1858— J. M. Gillis 100 

eclipse of the, March 15, 1868— T. Hill 101 

eclipse of the, April 25, 1865 — M. De Prados. (R. 18ii4) 188 

relative intensity of heat and light of the — L. W. Meecil (E. l85()) 91, 83 

Sunderland, B. Prayer at memorial of Joseph Henry 356 

Sun's distance, means available for correcting measures of the — G. B. Aii:y. (R. 

(1859) 110 

Superstitionsof Shoshone Indians — A. G. Brackktt. (R. 1879) 345 

Supplement, asteroid, to new tables of pLanetary motiou — J. D. Runkli: 94 

Surgery, subcutaneous. Toner lecture No. vi — W. Adams 302 

Surgical complications and sequels of continued fevers. Toner lecture No. v — 

W. W. Keen 300 

Survey- 
in Michigan, catalogue of rocks, minerals, and ores collected in tbe — C. T. 

Jackson. (R. 1854) 75 

magnetic, of Pennsylvania and parts of adjacent States — A. D. Bacue 166 

of economic geology of Trinidad— G. P. Wall; J. G. Sawkins. (R. 18.56). 91 

of State of New York -E. G. Squier 15 

Surveying expedition, North Pacific, natural history of— T. H. Streets 303 

Surveys, Government. See Explorations. 

Susquehanua River, Pennsylvania, roq^ caving on — F. G. GALnitAiTii. (II. 

1881) 481,515 



846 CATALOGUE OP PUBLICATIONS. 

Swain, Joseph— 

See also Jordan and Swain. 

a review of the Si/ngnathirKB of tlie United States, with a description of one 

new species (see also under Smith and Swain). (P. 1832) 518 

a, description of a new species of Hadropterus (R. scierus) from southern In- 
diana. (P, 1883) 548 

Swain, Joseph ; Kolb, George B. A review of the genus Xoclurnus, with a 

description of one new species. (P. 1882) 518 

Swain, Joseph; Meek, Seth E. Notes on the pii)e-fishes of Key West Fla., 
with description o£ Siphostoma McKayi, anew species Sij^hostoma har- 

iarce, ns. p. (P. 1884) 607 

See also Jordan and Swain. 
SwAiNE, Lieut. Col., P. T., U. S. Army; Hegewald, Lieut. J. T. C, U. S. 
Army. Information concerning some fossil trees in the U. S. National 

Museum. (P. 1882) 518 

Swan, J. G.— 

Collection of fishes from Washington Territory, notes on — T. H. Bean. (P. 

1883) 548 

Eulachon, or caudle-fish of northwest coast. (P. 1880) 425 

Ilaidah Indians of Queen Charlotte's Islands, British Cohimbia 267 

Makah Indians of Cape Flattery, Strait of Fuca : 220 

Makah vocabulary ■. 220 

Surf-smelt of the northwest coast, and mode of taking them by the Quille- 

hute Indians of west coast of Washington Territory. (P. 1880) 425 

Sweden, Stockholm, Academy of Sciences. Acknowledgment of birds. (R. 

18G7) 215 

Switz City Swamp, Greene County, Ind., fishes of, notes on the — C. H. Gilbert. 

(P. 1884) 607 

Switzerland — 

Concise, arcbiBological researches made at — F. Troyon. (R. 1861) 149 

Crania helvetica— F. Troyon. (R. 1864) IPg 

lacustrian cities of— F. Troyon. (R. 1861) 149 

lacustrian settlements in, abstract of Dr. Keller's report on — A. Mori.ot. 

(R. 1863) 187 

Lake of Neuchatel, palafittes or lacustrian construction of — E. Desor. (R. 

1865) 209,360 

Lausanne, cantonal museum at, antiquarian and ethnological collections 

of the— F. Troyon. (R. 1861) 149 

lecture on— A. D. Bache. (R. 1870) 244 

Syllabus of a course of lectures on physics — J. Henry. (R. 1856) 91 

Syllis spongiphila, new species, description of — A. E. Vekkill. (P. 1885) 650 

Symbols — 

For charts of prehistoric arch.-eology, international code of — 6. De Mortil- 

LET ; E. Chantre. (R. 1875) 298 

used by James Smitbson 327 

Sympagurus pictus, new genus and new species of, from south coast of New Eng- 
land, description of— S. I. Smith. (P. 1883) 548 

Syuaptabrycliia, new species, description of — A. E. Verrill. (P. 1885) 650 

Syngnathinaj of the United States, review of— -J. Swain. (P. 1882) ■. , 518 

Synonomy of genus Bothus liajincsqiie — D. S. Jordan; C. H. Gilbert. (P. 

1882) '. 518 

Synopsis of — 

Ameviciin Bhinobatidw. — S. Garman. (P. 1880) 425 

American wasps, solitary wasps — H. De^^ussure 254 

catostomidse— D. S. Jordan 308 



CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 847 

Synopsis of — Continued. 

marine invertebrala of Grand Mauaii — W. Stimpson 50 

Ifortli American k'i>idoptera— J. G. MoRUis 133 

North American neuroptera— II. IIagkn'; P. R. Uhlku 134 

North American Syrphidai — S. W. Williston Li3:j 

pediculate fishes of east coast of extia tropical North America— T. GiLi,. 

(P.n878) ;;;{2 

scientific writings of Sir William Ilerschol — E. S. IIoLOKX ; C. S. Hastings. 

(R. 1880) 442,426 

siluridai of fresh waters of North America — D. S. Johdax ;Wii 

species of genus Certhiola — R. Ridgway. (P. 188,')) 650 

the fishes of North America — D. S. Jordan ; C. II. Gxlbkrt 492, 4'.)G 

the genera of the super-family teutkidoidea—'l. Gill. ( P. 1884 ) 607 

the pledognatU fishes— T. Gill, (P. 1884) 607 

the West Indian Miiadcstcs—h. Stejnegeh. (P. 1882) 518 

trochilidaj— D. G. Elliott 317 

useful au<l injurious animals — G. B. Goode 207 

Synoptical Flora of North limerica— A. Gray ,')5:t, 591 

Synoptical tables of characters of mammals — T. Gill 2:')0 

Synthetic experiments relative to meteorites — G, A. Dauurke. (R. 1868) 221 

Syria, Beirut, sarcophagus from — A. A. Harwood. (R. 1870) 244 

System — 

meteorological, of Smithsonian Institution — E. Foreman. (R. 1851; R. 

1852) 51,57 

of accounts adopted by Board of Regents. (R. 18G6) 214 

of combined meteorological observations, report on, by committee of Ameri- 
can Associatiou for Advancement of Science. (R. 1851) 51 

of numeration, improved, report on — W. B. Taylor. (R. 1867) 215 

of weights and measures, now — G. H. Knigut. (R. I8t»7) 215 

solar, harmonies of the— S. Alexander 280 

Systematic — 

arrangement of the American Turdidce, remarks on the — L. Stkjxeger. 

(P. 1882) 518 

index of Smithsonian publications. {II. 1868) 224,478 

index to list of foreign correspondents 257 

list of batrachia and reptilia— E. D. CoPE 202 

relations, literature and, of the saocojjJiariingoid fishes— T. Gill ; J. A. 

Ryder. (P. 1884) «07 

review of classification of birds— W. Lilljeborg. (R. 18()5) 200,;?'J4 

Systems of — 

consanguinity and affinity of the hunum family- li. II. Morgan 218 

relationship of Cree Indians— E. A. Watkins. (R. 1862) 150 

T. 

Tables — 

anthropological measurements— Scherzer ; Sciiwarz. (R. 1866) 214 

asteroid— J. D. Runklk 94 

barometrical— A. Guyot ^ '^ 

chemical equi valents of sixty-three elements. (R. 18(;4 ) ^'^^ 

distribution of birds— G. N. Lawrence. (P. 1878) ^-^"^ 

for conversion of centigrade degrees to Fahrenheit's scale. (R. 1863) 187 

for determining values of co-eflicients in nerturbative function of planetary 

motion which depend on ratio of mean distances— J. D. Runkle 79 

foreign gold and silver coins, (R. 1868) ^'^[^ 

hygrometrical— A. Guyot ^'^^ 



848 CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 

Tables — Continued. 

hypsometrical — A. GuYOT ,. 153 

meteorological — A. Guyot 31, 153 

metric— H. A. Newton. (R. 1865) 209,371 

meteorological and physical — A. Guyot 522, 538 

miscellaneous — A. Guyot 1,^)3 

mortality, methods of interpolation applied to. Parts i, ii— E. L. L)k For- 
est. (R. 1871; R.1873) 240,275 

of atmospheric temperature — C. A. Schott 277 

of coustauts of nature and art — C. Babbage. ( R. 1856) 91 

of expansion by heat. Constants of Nature, Part iii — F. W. Clauke 289 

of meteorological corrections — A. Guyot 153 

of HiDtinii of Neptune— S. Newcomb , 199 

of motion of Uranus— S. Newcomb , 262 

of precipitation in rain and snow — C. A. Schott 222,353 

of variations of elements of orbits of the eight principal planets — J. N. 

Stockwell 23;i 

of weights and measures, English and French. (R. 1863-1805) 187, 188,209 

of winds of the glol)^— J. II. COFFix ; S. J. Coffix , 268 

physical — A. GuYOT 153 

psychrometrical — J. TI. Coffin 87 

specific gravity. Constants of Nature, Part i and supplement— F. W. 

Clarke 255,288 

specific heat. Constants of Nature, Part ii— F. W. Clarke 276 

thermometrical — A. Guyot : 153 

Tablet— 

of stone, perforated, from New York— William Wallace ToOker. (R. 

1881) _ 481,515 

palenque — C. Rau 331 

Tacchini, P. Evaporation observed at Palermo in 1365 and 1366. (R. 1870) .. 244 

Tampa Bay, Florida, shell heaps of— S. T, Walker. (R. 1379) 345 

Tangencies of circles and of spheres — B. Alvord 80 

Tantalus, genus, and its allies— R. Ridgway. (P. 1882) 518 

Tarr, R. S. ; Rathbun, R, List of duplicate marine invertebrates distributed 

by Museum. Series iv 516 

Taste, sens© of. (R. 1866) 214 

Taxidermy, classification of collections of U. S. National Museum to illustrate 

artof— W. T. Hornaday. (P. 1881) 467,456 

Taylor, A. S. Grasshoppers and locusts of America. (R. 1858) 109 

Taylor, F. W. Report of chemist of Smithsonian Institution. (R. 1880) 442 

Taylor, W. B.— 

Henry and the telegraph. (R. 1878) 341,405 

Kinetic theories of gravitation. (R. 1876) 299,395 

Memoir on tho scientific work of .Joseph Henry 3.56, 339 

Refraction of sound. (R. 1875) 298,595 

Report on improved system of numeration. (R. 1867) 215 

Thoughts on the naturo and origin offeree. (R. 1870) 244,375 

Taylor, William .1. Mounds in Berrien County, Ga. (R. 1881; R. 1883). 481, 515, 

538, 593 

Talor, W. M. Ancient mound in western Pennsylvania. (R. 1877) 323 

Technical, scientific and, periodicals, catalogue of— C. H. Bolton 546,514 

Telegram s — 

astronomical, circular relative to — J. Henry 263 

meteorological, by Western Union Telegraph Company — H. Sibley. (R. 

1862) 150 

read at memorial of Joseph Henry.... 356 



CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 849 

Telegraph — 

American fire-alarm, lecture on the — W. F. Ciianxixg. (R. ISni 75 

electro-magnetic — 

deposition of J. Henry in relation to. (R. 1857) 107 115 

Henry's contribution to^W. B. Taylor. (R. 1S7&) 341,405 

Morse's invention— W. B. Taylor. (R. 1878) 341 405 

proceedings of Board of Regents in relation to. (R. lsr)7) 107,115 

Henry and the — "W. B. Ta\'lor. (R. 1878) 4O5 

history of the — J. Hf.xry. (R. 1857) IO7 115 

influence of aurora on the— W. D. Sargext. ( R. 1870 ) 244 

lines, phenomena in, during auroras — Gr. B. Doxati. (R. 1872) 271 

report of Committee of Regents on the. (R. 1857) 107, U5, :;29 

statement of — 

S. P. Chase relative to the. (R. 1857) 107, 115,329 

L. D. Gale relative to the. (R. 13.57) 107, 115,329 

James Hall relative to the. (R. 1857) 107,115,329 

J. Henry, relative to history of. (R. 1857) 107, 115, 329 

Charles Mason, relative to the. (R. 1857) 1U7, 1 15, 329 

Telegraphic announcements of astronomical discoveries — J. Hexi;y 263 

Telescope — 

Henry Draper's, account of— T. W. Webr. (R. 1864) 188 

silvered-glasH, construction of, and its use in celestial photograj'liy — H. 

Draper 180 

Spencer's, examination of, for Hamilton College, Clinton, N. Y. (R. 1855). 77 
Temperature. See Kane, Hayes, Meteorology, etc. 

chart of United States for the year — C. A. Schott 381, 388 

charts of United States, summer, winter, and year— C. A. Schott 387 

in ascending currents of air, laws of variation of— J. Haxx\ (R. 1877) .. 323, 398 
in ascending moist currents of air, laws of variation of — L. Sohxckk. (R. 

1877) 323,398 

mean, best hours to find— C. Dewey. (R. 1857 ; R. ISfiO) ... 107, 147 

observations in the Arctic Seas — I. I. Hayes 196 

observations in the Arctic Seas — E. K. Kaxe 104 

observations in the Arctic Seas— F. L. McClixtock 146 

of Saint Louis, Mo.— A. Fexdler. (R. 1860) 147 

tables for United States and adjacent parts of America — C. A. Schott 277 

underground— C. A. Schott ; J. D. Everett. (R. 1874) 286 

variations of, influence of, on heart of slider terrapin — H. G. Beyer. (P. 1885) 650 

Tempests and tornadoes, distinction between — J.B.Lamarck. (R. 1871) 249 

Tennessee — 

aboriginal remains of — J. JoxES :i59 

Alleghany region of, fishes of— D. S. Jokdax ; A. \\\ Braytox 308 

Antiquities in — 

I.DiLLE. (R.1862) 150 

E.O.DuxxiXG. (R. 1870) 244 

^Y. M.Clark. (R. 1877) 323 

J.Jones 259 

D.F.Wright. (R. 1874) 286 

Blount County, antiquities of— A. E. Law. (R. 1874) 286 

Carroll County, aboriginal structures in— James M. Null. ( R. 1882) 540, 535 

Chattanooga, ancient mound near — M. C. Read. (\l. 1867) 215 

East, mound in— A. F. Daxilsex. (R. 1863) 187 

explorations in— E. A. Daytox. (R. 1870) 244 

Hardin County, al)original ruins in— J. P. Stellk. (R. 1870) 244 

herbarium captured in— H. R. Wirtz. (R. 1862) 150 

H. Mis. 170 54 



850 CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 

Tennessee — Continued. 

Jaekson County, mound on Flynn's Creek— Joshua Haite, Sr. (R. 18S1). 481, 51.5 

Jaekson County, antiquities of — J. Hailk ; J. W. McHenry. (K 1874) 28G 

Naskville, antiquities of — R. S. Eobertsox. (R. 1877) 323 

Savannah, aboriginal ruins at — J. P. Stelle. (R. 1870) 244 

stone image in, discovery of — E. M. Grant. (R. 1870) 244 

Teutlii doidea, genera of, synopsis of— T. Gill. (P. 1884) 007 

Terminology of ichtliyograpliy, contribution to tlie — T. Gill. (P. 1SS4). 607 

Terrestrial magnetisoi. See Bacbe, A. D. 

observations on — W. Harkness -,._ 239 

observations on — J. Locke 35 

observations on — Baron voN MtJLLER ; A. Sonxtag 114 

Terrestrial physics, articles on. (R. 1S70) 244 

Tertiary — 

fossil plants from Western North America, descriptions of — J. I. Newberry. 

(P. 1882) , 518 

fossilspreseuted— Imperial Geological Institute, Viexxa. (R. 1863) .. 187 

Testing — 

building materials, on mode of — J.Henry. (R. 1856) 91 

results of perspiration and respiration, apparatus for — M. Pettexkofer. 

(R. 1864) 188 

Tetrastichus productus— C. V. Riley. (P. 1885) 650 

Texas — 

Antiquities and aborigines of— A. R. Roessler. (R. 1881) 481,515 

Galveston, fishes observed at, notes on— D. S. Jordan ; C. H.Gilbert. (P. 

1882) 518 

hail-storm in— G. M. Bache. (R. 1870) 244 

new cretaceous invertebrate fossils from, descriptions of — C. A. White. 

(P. 1879) 333 

ornithology of, notes on— J. C. Merrill. (P. 1878) 332 

plants of, collected by C. Wright. Parts i, ii— A. Gray 22,42 

western and southern, flora of — V. Ha yard. (P. 1885) 650 

zoological position of — E. D. Cope 412 

Textile- 
fabrics, prehistoric— W. H. Holmes. (P. 1881-'82) 631 

industries of the United States, plan of acollection — R. Hitchcock. (P.1884) 597 

industries, section. National Museum, report of curatorfor 1884. (R. 1884, ii). 648 
industries, Section, National Museum, report on for 1885 — R. Hitchcock. 

(R. 1885, II) 654 

Thalassophila— W. G. Bixney 143 

Th^nard, L. J., memoir of— M. Flourexs. (R. 1862) 150 

Theoretical researches. See Plateau, J. 

Theories, kinetic, of gravitation— W. B. Taylor. (R. 1876) 299,395 

Theory — 

mechanical, of heat, principles of— J. Ml'ller. (R. 1868) 224 

modern, of chemical types — C. M. Wetherill. (R. 1863) 187 

of heat, recent progress in relation to — A. Cazix. (R. 1868) 224 

Thermometer — 

scales, table for conversion of centigrade to Fahrenheit. (R. 1863) 187 

wet and dry bulb, tables for — J. H. Coffin 87 

Thermometric observations 157 

Thermometrical tables — A. Gu yot 153 

Thomas, Cyrus. Circular No. 28, Appendix. Directions for mound explora- 
tion. (P. 1884) 607 

Thomas, C. Notes on certain Maya and Mexican manuscripts. (E. 1881-82).. 631 

Thompson, T. Mounds in Iowa and Illinois. (R. 1379) 345 



CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 851 

Thoughts on the iiaturo and origin of force— W. B. Taylou. (K. IdTO) 244,375 

Throwlng-sticks in the Xutional Museum — O.T.Mason*. (R. 1831,ii) C48 

Thrushes, descripliou of two new, from United States— R. Ridgway. (P. 1881).. 467 

Thunder — 

and lightning, observations on— S. Masterman. (R.1855) 77 

storm, on John Wise's observation of a — R. Hark. (R. 16.')4) 75 

storms, instructions for observations of — J. Hexi: y 235 

Tidal observations — 

at Wolstcuholm Sound— Com. Saunders 130 

in the Arctic Seas— 1. 1. Hayes 19G 

in the Arctic Seas— E. K. Kane 130 

Tide, flood, law of deposit of the — C. II. Davis 33 

Tides and tidal action in harbors— ,T. E. Hilgard. (R. 1874) '280,390 

Tiffany, A. S.— 

Mounds in Bureau Couuty, 111. (R. 1881) 481,51.'} 

Shell-bed, skull from Illiuois. (R.1874) 286 

Timber of submarine structures, occurrence of Chdura ierehraiis, a crustacean 

destructive to— S.L Smith. (P. 1879) 333 

Time and space, lecture on relations of— S. Alexander. (R. 1861) 149 

Tinneh or Chepewyan Indians of British America— G. Gibbs ; W. L. Hardisty ; 

S. Jones; B. R. Ross. (R. 1866) 214,365 

TipulidtB, monograph of— R. Osten Sacken 219 

Tise's Ford, Florida, fossil bones discovered in the vicinity of, on the origin of — 

S. T. AValker. (P. 1883) 548 

Todos Santos Bay, Lower California- 
fishes of, notes on— R. S.mitu. (P. 1833) 548 

mollusks from, notes on— C. R. Orcutt. (P. 1885) 650 

Toellner, a. Antiquities of Rock Island County, 111. (R. 1379) 345 

Tokio, University of, catalogue of Jaiianeso woods presented by — L. F. Wa»rd. 

(P. 1881) 467 

Tompkins County, N. Y., ancient fort and burial ground in— D. Trowbridge. 

(R. 1863) 187 

Toner, J. M. Deed of foundation of Toner lect urns. (R. 1872) 271 , 329 

Toner lectures — 

No. I. On the structure of cancerous tumors aud the mode in wliich adja- 
cent parts are invaded — J. J. Woodward 266 

II. Dual character of the brain— C. E. Brown-Sequard 291 

III. On strain and over-action of the heart — J. M. Da Costa 279 

IV. A study of the nature and mechanism of fever — II. C. Wood 282 

V. On the surgical complications and sequels of the continued fevers, 

with a bibliography of works on diseases of the joints, bones,larynx, 

the eye, gangrene, hajraatoma, phlegmasia, etc. — W, W. Keen 300 

VI. Subcutaneous surgery, its principles, and its recent extension in 

practice— W. Adams .--- 302 

VII. The nature of reparatory inflammation in arteries after ligature, 

acupressure, and torsion — E. O. SnAKicsPEARE 321 

VIII. Suggestions for the sanitary drainage of Washington City— G. E. 

Waring, Jr 349 

IX. Mental over- work— C. K. Mills 594 

Tonto Apaches, notes on the— C. S.mart. (R. 1867) 215 

TooKER, William Wallace. Perforated tablet of stone from New York. (R. 

1881) 481,515 

Topography of Black Mountain, North Carolina— T. L. Clingman. (R. 1855).. 77 
Tornado — 

in Spruce Creek Valley, Centre County, Pa.— J. B. Meek. (R. 1871) 249 

near New Harmony, Ind., April 30, 1352— J. Chappelsmitii 59 



852 CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 

Tornadoes — 

and tempests, distinction between— S. B. Lamarck. (R. 1871 ) 249 

queries relative to — J. Henry , 190 

Toronto. — 

Observatory, instructions by, for observations of aurora 143 

Observatory, map of stars near Nortb Pole used by 350 

University. Objects of the museum. (R. 1865) 209 

University. Scientific co-operation. (R. 1861) 149 

Torrey, John, memoir of, by A. Gray. (R. 1873) 275 

TORREY, J— 

Observations on the Balis maritima 60 

On the Darlingtonia Californica, a new pitcher plant from northern Califor- 
nia 61 

Plantte Frdmontiante, or descriptions of plants collected by J. C. Fremont in 

California 46 

Tortoises, North American land, of genus Xerohates—F. W. True. (P. 1881) 467 

Tortola, great hurricane at— G. A. Latimer. (R. 1867) 215 

Tortugas, destruction of fish in vicinity of the— J. P. Jefferson ; J. Y. Porter ; 

T.Moore. (P. 1878) 332 

Totten, General J. G., eulogy on, by J. G.Barxard. (R. 1865) 209 

TowNSEND, Charles H. — 

An account of recent captures of the California sea elephant, and statistics 

relating to the present abundance of the species. (P. 1885) 650 

Fishes collected by, at San Cristobal, Lower California, notes on— R. Smith. 

(P. 1884) 607 

Traces of early mental condition of man — E. B. Tylor. (R. 1867) 215 

Trade- 
ancient aboriginal— C. Rau. (R. 1872) 271, 440, 385 

language of Oregon, dictionary of the — G. GiBBS 161 

language of Oregon, vocabulary of the— B. R. Mitchell; W.W.Turner. 68 
Transactions. See Geneva Society, Paris Anthropological Society. 

of the Anthropological Society of Washington 504, 501 

Vol. II 544 

Vol. HI 630 

Transatlantic longitude~B. A. GoULD 223 

Transfer of Smithsonian library to Library of Congress, act of Congress to au- 
thorize. (R. 1865) 209,328,329 

Transformations, lecture on insect instincts and — J. G. MoRRiS. (R. 1855) 77 

Transit of Venus expedition to Kerguelen Island~J. TI. Kidder and others.. 293, 294 
Transporting — 

moths, directions for-C. H. Fernald. (P. 1884) 607,600 

specimens of Diatotnacece, directions for — A. M. Edwards 366 

specimens of natural history, directions for— S. F. Baird. (R. 1856) 91,34 

Trapezium, gray substance of the — J. Dean 1"3 

Travels in Central and South America— S. Habel 269 

Treasury — 

Department, authority given by, to collectors of customs and others to re- 
ceive and transmit specimens to the Smithsonian 34 

of United States, account of, with Smithson fund 328, 329 

Secretarv of, letter to, on payment of interest in coin- J. IIenry. (R. 

1865) 209,329 

Tree- 
creepers of Europe and America, critical remarks on— R. Ridgway. (P. 

1882) ^81 

sparrow, passer saturatus, from Japan— L. Stejneger. (P. 1885) 650 



CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 853 

Trees — 

forest, distributiou of, lu Montana, Idaho, and Washington— W. W. JoUN- 

SON. (R. 1870; 044 

fossil, in U. S. National Museum— P. T. Swaink ; J. T. C. IIegkwalu. (P. 

1882) 518 

native, of the Lower Wabash and White liiver Valleys, notes on — li. Kidg- 

WAY. (P. 1882) 518 

of Florida and the Meixcan boundary— J. G. Coopeu. (K. 18G0) 117 

of North America, distribution of— J. G. Cooper. (R. 1858) lOy, 351 

Trephined skull — 0. T. Masox. (P. 1885) (i50 

Trinidad, economic geology of-G. P. Wall; J. G. Sawkixs. (K. 185()) 91 

Trinominals, use of, in American ornithology — L. Stejxkgku. (P. 1884) (507 

Triodontoidea, new super-fam., synopsis of — T. Gill. (P. 1884) 607 

Trochilida; — 

classification and synopsis of — D. (J. Elliot 317 

in collection of U. S. National Museum, catalogue of— R. Ridgway. (P. 

1880) 425 

list of— D. G. Elliot 334 

Troglodytes of Breckiuridge County, Ky. — R. S. Robertsox. (R. 1874) 286 

Troglodytes or cave dwellers of the valley of the Y6zhre — P. Broca. (R. 1872). 271 
Tropical America — 

coutopus from — R. Ridgway. (P. 1885) 650 

Pacific coast of, fishes known from, list of— D. S. Jordax. (P. 1885) 650 

Tropidonotus comijressicandus walkeri, new subspecies, description of — H. C. 

Yarrow. (P. 1883) 548 

Trowbridge, D. Ancient fort and burial ground in Tompkins County, N. Y. 

(R. 1863) 187 

Troyox, F.— 

ArchiEologi.cal researches made at Coucise. (R. 1861 ) 149 

Lacustrian cities of Switzerland. (R. 1861) 149 

On the Crania lieTvetica. (R. 1864) 188 

Report ou ethnological collection of Museum at Lausanne, Switzerland. (R. 

1861) 149 

Truckee group, moUuscan fauna of the — C. A. White. (P. 1882) 518 

True, F. W.— 

Catalogue of aquatic mammals of the United States at the London Fisheries 

Exhibition in 1883 511,562 

Circular No. 29, Apjieudix : Provisional plan for a collection of mammals to 
be exhibited at the World's Industrial and Cotton Centennial Exposi- 
tion of 1884-85, at New Orleans. A provisional list of mammals of 
North and Central America and the West Indian Islands. (P. 1884).. 607 
Contributions to the history of the Commander Islands. No. 5. Descrip- 
tion of a new species oi Mesoplodon, M. Stejnegeri, obtained by Dr. 
Leonhard Stejneger, in Behring Island. (With Plate xxv). (P. 

1885) <;50 

Note upon the Mtjperoodon semijunctus of Cope. (P. 1885) 650 

On a cinnamon bear from Pennsylvania. (P. 1882) 518 

On a new muskrat, Neofibcr alleni, from Florida. (P. 1884) 607 

On a new si)ecics of porpoise, Phocwna dalli, from Alaska (with plates ii-v). 

(P. 1885) C50 

On a pair of abnormal antlers of the Virginia deer. (P. 1883) 548 

On a spotted dolphin. (R. 13841') 648 

On North American laud tortoises of genus Xcrohatts. (P. 1831 ) 467 

On the rare rodent Criceiodipus parvus. (P. 1881) 467 



854 CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 

True, F. W. — Continued. 

On the occurrence of Lonchcres armatus (Geoff.) Waguer, in the islandof Mar- 
tinique, West Indies. (P. 1884) 607 

On the skeleton of Phoca {Histriophoca fasciata) Zimmerman. (P. 1883) 548 

Report on Department of Mammals, National Milseum, for 1684. (R. 1884, ii). 648 

Rejiort on Department of Mammals, National Museum, for 1885. (R. 1885, ii) . 654 
Report on Department of Comparative Anatomy, National Museum, for 

1885. (R. 1885, II) 654 

The Florida muskrat {Neofiher alleni). (R. 1884") 648 

(translator). Observations on four mules in milk — Alfred DuGfes. (P. 

1882) 518 

True, T. W. ; F. A. Lucas. On the West Indian seal, Monachus tropiealis, Gray. 

(R.1884") 648 

Trumbull County, Ohio, mound near Braceville — S.N.Luther. (R. 1881). ..481, 515 

Truncatellidaj— W. G. BlNNEY 144 

Trust fund for the promotion of science in the United States — J. Tyndall. (R. 

1872) 271 

Tryon, G. W.— 

letter to, on shells— J. Lewis 253 

Report on shells presented to Philadelphia Academy of Natural Sciences. 

(R. 1865) 209 

Strepomatidas or American melauians 253 

Trypetina, review of — H. LOEW 256 

Tuckahoe, or Indian Bread— J. now.4.RD Gore. (R. 1881) 515,432 

TUCKERMAN, E.— 

lichens of Arctic America 342 

lichens of Kergueleu Island 294 

TUCKETT,F. F., on barometer tables. (R. 1867) 215 

Tucson meteorite, account of— 

S.AiNSA. (R. 1863) 187 

B.J. D.Irwin. (R. 1863) 187 

Tumors, cancerous, structure of — J. J. Woodward 266 

Tunicata — 

of northeast coast of America — A. E. Verrill. ( P. 1879) 333 

of the northeastern coast of America, notice of the — A. E. Verrill. (P. 

1885) 650 

Turbiuella pyrum, Lamarck, and its dentition — W. H. Dall. (P. 1885) 650 

Turbonilla — 

punicoa, new species of, from Florida — W. H. Dall. (P. 1883) 548 

virga, new species of, from Florida— W. H. Dall. (P. 1883) 548 

virdaria, new species of, from Florida— W. H. Dall. (P. 1883) 548 

Turdidte- 

American, systematic arrangement of the, remarks on the — L. Stejneger. 

(P. 1882) 518 

description of new species of, from Dominica— G. N. Lawrence. (P. 1880) 425 

Turner, Lucien M. — 

List of the birds of Labrador, including Ungava,- East Main, Moose, and 
Gulf districts of the Hudson Bay Company, together with the island 

of Anticosti. (P. 1885) 650 

on Lagojyus mutua ILcsbch. and its allies. (P»1S32) 518 

Turner, W. AV.— 

and others. On publication of Squier and Davis's Ancient Monuments of 

the Mississippi Valley. (R. 1847) H, K 

Indian philology. (R. 1851) 51 

Notice of— C. C. Felton. (R. 1859) 110 



CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 855 

Turner, W. W. ; Bowen, T. J. Yoniba grammar and dictionary OS 

Turner, W. W. ; Mitchell, B. K. Vocabulary of the jargon of Oregon 68 

Tylor, E. B. On traces of the early mental condition of man. (K. Ib(i7) 215 

Tylosurus euryops, new species from Jamaica, description of — T. II. Bkax ; II. G. 

Dresel. (P. 1584) G07 

Tylosanms sagitta, new species, description of — D. S. Jordan'; C. II. GiLiiEirr. 

(P. 1S84) 607 

Tyxdall, J.— 

Eadiation. (K. 18G8) 224 

Trust fund for the promotion of scionce in the United States. (R. lS72)..271,32y 
Tyj)e specimens — 

lending of— S. F. Baird. (P. 1866) 637 

of Butco oxyptcrus, Cassin, remarks on — li. Ridgway. (P. ISSu) 6.")0 

Tyrannus, synopsis of genus— R. Ridgway. (P. 1873) 332 

U. 

Ugashagmut tribe, Alaska, ethnological specimens from, catalogue of— W. J. 

Fisher. (P. 1SS3) 548 

Ugashak River, Alaska, Ugashagmut tribe at, ethnological specimens from cata- 
logue of— W. J. Fisher. (P. 1883) 548 

Uhler, p. E.— 

Circular in reference to the history of Xorth American grasshoppers — 1()3 

Instructions fgr collecting hemiptera. (R. 18.'j8) 109 

Instructions for collecting neuroptera. (R. 1858) lOU 

Instructions for collecting orthoptcra. (R. 1858) 109 

Synopsis of neuroptera of North America 134 

Underground temperature— C. A. Schott; J. D. Everett. (R. 1874) 286 

Ungava district, Hudson Bay Company, birds of, list of the— L. M. Turner. 

(P. 1885) 650 

Union, lectures on the— H. Reed. (R. 1854) 75 

United States — 

animal resources aud fisheries of the, catalogue ef collection to illustrate 

the— G. B. GooDE 326 

animal resources of the, catalogue of collection to illustrate the— G. B. 

GoODE 297 

antiquities of the, proposed map of— A. J. Hill. (R. 1861) 149 

archaeology of the— S. F. Haven 71 

base chart of the— C. A. Schott 414 

chalk found in the— T. A. Conr.\d. (R. 1865) 209 

coast of, first occurrence of PseHcZo/riacismicrorfoJi on the— T. H. Bean. (P. 

1883) -"^^S 

coleoptera of the, catalogue of the— F. E. Melsheimer 62 

collections presented to the, by foreign commissioners, list of. (R. 1876) .. 299 

eastern, Auriculacea of the, revision of the— W. H. Dall. (P. 18^5) 650 

education in the, project of outline history of— F. A. Packard. (R. 1S63) . . 187 

ethnological map of the, proposed— G. GiBBS. (R. 18G2) 150 

exhibit of fisheries and fish culture of the, .at Berlin, 18S0— G. B. Goode.. 413 
explorations in the. See Baird, S. F. 

Exploring Expedition, duplicate shells collected by the 193 

Fish Commission. See Fish Commission, 
fishes, food, of the. &e Baird, S. F. 
fishes of Pacific coast of the — 

bibliography of— T. 11. Bean. (P. 1881) 467 

bibliography of— T. Gill 463 

D. S. Jordan; C. H. Gilbert. (P. 1880) 425 

notes on— D. S. Jokd.\n ; C. H. Gilbert. (P. 1881 ) 467 



856 CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 

United States — Continued. 

free freight between England and the— E. Cunard. (R. 1859) 110 

free freight between Germany and the — 

KUNHARDT& Co. (K, 1861) 149 

by North German Lloyd— E. Schleidex. (E. 1858) 109 

fund for promotion of science in the — J. Tyxdall. (R. 1872) 271 

Government, list of publications of, 1S68-1881 — G. H. Boehmer 477 

institutions, scientific and literary, in the, list of the principal 335 

libraries, institutions, and societies in the, list of — AV. J. Eiiees 116, 238 

libraries, public, in the, notices of— C. C. Jewett... 25 

libraries, public, of the, report on- C. C. Jewett. (K. 1S49j 21 

limpets and chitons from deep waters off eastern coast of the — W. II. Dall. 

(P. 1881) 4G7 

meteorology of the, report on — E. LooMis. (E. 1847) H 

microscopic examinations of soundings off Atlantic coast of the — J. W. 

Bailey 20 

moUusca of the southern, some new species of eocene.. A. IIeilprix. (P. 

1880) 425 

National Museum. See Museum, U. S. National. ' 

occultatious visible in the. See Dowses, J. 

Patent Office, results of meteorological observations under the direction of 

the. Vols. I, u 157,182 

physical geography of the — C. Ellet, Jr 13 

rain and snow f£.ll in the, tables of— C. A. Schott 222, 353 

rain charts of the, 1, 2, 3; summer, winter, year — C. A. Schott 374 

reptiles, cretaceous, of the — J. Leid y 192 

review of— J. Leidy. (E. 1864) IdS 

shell deposits, artificial, of the— D. G. Brinton. (R. 1866) 214 

sparrows sent to the— W. A. Lloyd. (E. 1867) 215 

Syngnathince of the, review of the— J. Swaix. (P. 1882) 518 

temperature chart of the, for the year — C. A. Schott 381, 388 

temperature charts of the, 1, 2, 3; summer, winter, year — C. A. Schott . .. 387 

temperature tables of the— C. A. Schott 277 

thrushes from the, description of two new— E. Ridgway. (P. 1881) 4()7 

trees of the, catalogue of— J. G. Cooper. (R. 1858) 109, 351 

Treasury. See Treasury, 
Universal meteorograph for detached observatories— E. H. Vox Baumhauer. 

(E.1879) 345 

University — 

National, of Greece, Museum of. Exchange of specimens. (R. 1867) 215 

of Christiania, Norway, ethnological specimens presented by. (R. 1863) .. 187 

of Costa Rica. Exchange of specimens. (R. 1867) 215 

of State of New York, Regents of the. Acknowledgment for specimens. 

(E.18G5) 209 

of Tokio, catalogue of Japanese woods presented by — L. F. Ward. (P. 

1881) 1 467 

of Toronto, objects of museum of. (E. 1865) 209 

of Toronto, scientific co-operation. (E. 1861) 149 

Unnamed sparrows from the coast of California. E. Ridgway. (P. 1884) <507 

Unveiling of the Joseph Henry statue, addresses at the. (E. 1883) 593, 585 

Uranidea — 

marginata, new species of fish, description of— T. H. Beax. (P. 1881) 467 

microstoma, new fish from Alaska, description of— W. N. Lockixgtox. (P. 

1880) 425 

new species from Lake Michigan, description of— D. S. Jordax ; C. H. Gil- 
bert. (P. 1882) 518 



CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 857 

Unuiidea— Conliuued. 

rliotlioa, new species of, rioiu Spokane liivcr—K. Smith. (P. IticS-J) olS 

Uranium, literature ol", index to the — IL C. Boltox. (K. 188^) C)\0, 628 

Uranus — 

investigation of orbit of, with tables of its motion— S. Newcomh 262 

secular variation of elements of orbit of — J. N. Stockwell 232 

Urine, observations on the — J. JoXKS 82 

Urolophus — 

Asterins, description of— D. S. Jordan ; C. H. GiLBEirr. (P. 1882) 518 

nebulosus, notes on — S. Garmax. (P. 1885) 650 

fuscus, notes on — S. Garmax. (P. 1885) 650 

Utah- 
descriptions of now invertebrate fossils from — C. A. White. (P. 1880) 425 

lahe, descriptiou of new species of S(2naliiis {ScpiaJius aliciw) froiu— P. L. 

JOUY. (P. 1881) .167 

lake, notes on collection of fishes from — D. S. Jordax ; C. II. Gilkkrt. (P. 

18S0) 425 

Utrecht, Provincial Society of Arts and Sciences. Prize questions, (li. 18G1; 

R.1862) 149,150 

Y. 

Vaillaxt, M. ; ITexky, J. Horary variations of the barometer. (R. ISGG) 214 

Values of — 

h^ '-^ and its derivatives — J. D. Ruxkle 91 

coefficients in perturbative function of planetary motion depending on ratio 

of mean distances — J. D. Ruxkle 79 

Valvatidae — W. G. Binxey ■. 144 

Vax Allex, George C, mounds in Henry County, Iowa. (K. 1882) 540 

Vancouver's Island, new species of goby from — D.S. Jordax; C. H. GiLRKRT. 

(P. 1882) ] 518 

Vauderburgh County, Ind., mounds and earth- works in— Floyd Stixsox. (R. 

1881) ----- 431,515 

Van Rensselaer Harbor, Arctic Seas, observations at. -See Kane. 
Vapor, aqueous — 

on the diminution of, with increasing altitude in the atmosphere— J. Haxx". 

(R.1S77) .' -• 32:?, 393 

table for determining elastic force of — J. H. Coffix 87 

Variations of temperature, influence of, onheart of slider terrapin — H. G. Beyer. 

(P. 1885) , 050 

Vastness of the visible creation, lectures on — S. Alexaxder. (R. 1857) 107 

Vegetable — 

colonization of Shetland Islands, Faroe Islajid-s, and Iceland — C. M.^rtixs. 

(R.1858). 109 

species, causes which limit, towards the north — A. De Caxdolle. (R. 

1858) 109 

Vegetation and the atmosphere — J. Jamlx. (R. 1864) 188 

Velie, J. W., catalogue and description of fishes collected by, in Gulf of Mexico — 

G.B.Goode; T.H.Beax. (P.1879) ,- 333 

Velocity of — 

light, essay on the— C. Delauxay. (R. 1864) 188, 354 

the w-ind— J. IIaxn and others. (R. 1877) 323, 398 

Venezuela, Colonia Tovar, niet-eorology and ethnology of— -\. Fexdler. (R. 

1857; R. 1866) 107,214 



858 CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 

Venom of — 

rattlesnake, researches on the — S. W. Mitchell 135 

serpents, bibliography of— S. W. Mitchell 135 

poisonous serpents, researches upon— S. W. Mitchell ; E. T. Reichert 647 

Ventilating and warming buildings. Parts i, ii— A. MoRix. (R. 1873; R. 

1874) 275,286,439 

Ventilation, architecture in relation to — D. B. Reid. (R. 1856) 91 

Venus. See Transit of Venus. 

Secular variations of elements of orbit of— J. N. StoCKWELL 232 

Vera Cruz, Mexico, antiquities in— H. FiNCK. (R. 1870) 244 

Verification of barometers at the Kew Observatory— J. Welsh. (R. 1859) 110 

Verrill, A. E. — 

Annelids, echinoderms, and anthozoa of Kerguelen Island 294 

Annelids, molluscoids, and radiates of Arctic America 342 

Marino invertebrata of New England. (P. 1879) 333 

Mollusca recently added to fauna of southern New England, catalogue of. 

(P. 1880) 425 

Mollusca, with notes on annelida, echinodermata, etc. (P. 1880) 425 

Notice of recent additions to the marine invertebrata of the northeastern . 
coast of America, with descriptions of new genera and species, and 
critical remarks on others — 
Part IV. Additions to the deep-water mollusca taken off Martha's Vine- 
yard in 1880 and 1881. (P. 1882) 518 

Part V. Annelida, echinodermata, hydroida, tunicata {Polynos anranti- 
aca, Leanira roiusta, Amjiliinome lepadis, Leodice ienedicti, NotopTixjllum 
americanum, Anaitis formosa, A. 2>icta, Castalia cincinnafa, SijlUs sjjongi- 
pMIa, nn. ss. ; OpMoglycera gigantea, n. g. and n. s. ; Polydora tuhifex, 
Ammochares artifex, Leprcea dbyssicola, Sdbella picta, Synapta brychia, 
Opiiiacaniha frcderna, O.varispina, 0. gracilis, AmpMurafragilis, Clado- 

carpus flexilis, Citleolus tanneri, nn. ss.) (P. 1885) 650 

Recent additions to marine invertebrata of northeast coast of America, with 

new genera and species. Parts i, u, iii. (P. 1879; P. 1880) 333, 425 

Verrill, A. E. ; Rathbun, R.— 

List of marine invertebrates distributed.by the Fish Commission. Series I.. 494 
Marino invertebrata of northeast coast of America distributed by Fish Com- 
mission. (P. 1879) 333 

Vertebrata, chemical and physiological investigations relative to — J. JoNES-. . 82 
Vertebrata, deep-sea, fish-like, new genera and species of, diagnosis of— T. Gill. 

(P. 1883) 548 

Vespidse, synopsis of — H. De Saussure 254 

Vestiges of antiquity in the United States— S. F. Haven 71 

V^z^re, valley of the, cave dwellers of the— P. Broca. (R. 1872) 271 

Vibratory movement of matter — L. Magrini. (R. 1868) 224 

Victoria Royal Society, address of the president — R. L. J. Ellery. (R. 1868) .. 224 
Vienna — 

Imperial Academy of Sciences of. Prize questions. (R. 1864 ; R. 1865) ..188,209 

Imperial Geological Institute, tertiary fossils presented by. (R. ISeS) 187 

Imperial Library of, books presented. (R. 1865) 209 

Views and plans of Smithsonian Institution — R. D. Owen P 

Vineyard Sound, Massachusetts, occurrence of oceanic bonito in — V. N. Ed- 
wards. (P. 1878) 332 

Vireolanius pulchellus verticalis, description of — R. Ridgway. (P. 1835) 650 

Vireo approximans, new species, from collection by J. E. Benedict and W. Nye — 

R.RiDGWAY. (P.1884) 607 

Vireosylvia grandior, new species from collection by J. E. Benedict and W. Nye — 

R. Ridgway. (P. 1884) 607 



CATALOGUP] OF PUBLICATIONS. 859 

Virgiu Islauila^ flora of the — II. F. A. Fggeus 313 

Virginia— 

deer, abnormal antlers of— F. W. Tuuk. (P. 183:5) 54,:) 

early iron manufacture in — R. A. Brock. (P. 183.o) 650 

Hampton, catalogue of casts of heads of Indian boys and girls at — II. K. 

Pkatt. (P. 1879) 33:5 

Luray cave, blind myriapod from — J. A. Rydku. (P. ISSO) 4-j.-) 

Luray cave, report of visit to— O. T. Mason and others. (R. 1880) '142,433 

Yitality— H. II. HiGGixs ; J. Hexry. (R. 1866) 214 

Viviparidaj — W. G. Bixxey 144 

Viviparious osseous fishes, development of— J. A. Ry'Der. (P. 1885) 650 

Vocabularies, Indian — 

G. GiBBS. (R. 1862) 150 

received from the AVheeler expedition, list of. (R. 1874) 286 

Vocabulary — 

comparative — A. Gallatin 160 

comparative, English, Spanish, French, Latin 170 

Makah— J. G. Swan 220 

of Chinook jargon, or trade language of Oregon — G. Gibbs 161 

of Chinook jargon, or trade hmguage of Oregon — B. R. Mitchell; W. W. 

Turner ; G. Gibbs 68 

Vocal sounds of Laura Bridgman — F. Lieber 12 

Voices of crustaceans- G. B. Goode. (P. 1878) 332 

Volcanic — 

dust and sand, deposits of, in southwestern Nebraska — G. P. Merrill. (P. 

1885) 650 

eruptions and earthquakes in Iceland — G. II. Boeumer, translator. (R. 

1885) 649,644 

Volcano — 

in Nicaragua, eruption of— A. B. Dickinson. (R. 1867) 215 

new, on Bogosloff Island, in Behriug Sea, h(frnblende andesites from — G. P. 

Merrill. (P. 1885) 650 

ofColima, eruption of— C. Sartorius. (R. 1869) 228 

of Popocatepetl, examination of— Baron VON Muller; A. Sonntag 114 

Volcanoes of Iceland, bibliography of— G. H. Boeumer. (R. 1835) 644,649 

VoLLUM, E. P. On the wingless grasshopper of California. (R. 1860) 147 

Volta, Alexander, eulogy on, by F. AragO. (R. 1375) '. 298 

Von Baumhauer, E. II. Universal meteorograph for detached observatories. 

(R. 1879) 345 

Von Buch, Leopold, memoir of, by M. Flourens. (R. 1862) 150 

Von Hellwald, F. The American migration. (R. 1366) 214 

VON Karolyi, Lieutenant ; Craig, B. F. Products of combustion of gun-cotton 

and gunpowder. (R. 1864) 188 

Von LlEBiG, J. Induction and deduction. (R. 1870) 244 

Von Martins, C. F. P.— 

honorary medal to— W. Haidinger. (R. 1863) 187 

memoir of— C. Rau. (R. 1869) 228,440,251 

Von MOller, Baron. Observations on terrestrial magnetism in Mexico 114 

Vorticella, chlorophylloid granules of— J. A. Ryder. (P. 1884) 607 

Vreeland, C. E. ; Bransford, J. F. AntiquitiesatPantaleon, Guatemala. (R. 

1834) 623,619 

Vulcauology and seismology, account of progress in— C. G. Rockwood, Jr. — 

(R.1884) 623,616 

(R.1885) 649,634 



860 CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 



. W. 

Wabasli Eiver Valley, Uliuois, uativo trees of, notes ou— E. Ridgwav. (P. 

1882) 518 

Waite, M. E. Memorial of Joseph Henry 356 

Walcott, CD. — 

bibliography of— J. B. Marcou 625 

Eeport ou department of invertebrate fossils, National Museum, for 1884. 

(E. 1884,11) G48 

Eeport on department of invertebrate fossils {Faleozoic, National Muzeum, 

for 1885. (E. 1885, ii) C54 

Waite, Chief-Justice, address at the unveiling of the Joseph Henry statue. (E. 

1883) 585,593 

Wale ; Hawkins. Blow-pipe apparatus. (R. 1872) 271 

Walker, D. — 

Observations on Arctic auroras and siiecific gravity of sea water 146 

Observations on ice 146 

Walker, S. C. — 

Ephemerides of planet Neptune, 1848, 1846-1849, 1850, 1851, 1852 4, 5, 6, 7, 24 

Eesearches relative to planet Neptune 3 

Walker, S. T.— 

Explorations among Indian mounds in southern Florida. (E. 1879) 345 

Fish mortality in the Gulf of Mexico. (P. 1883) 548 

Mounds and shell heaps on the west coast of Florida. (E. 1883) 588, 593 

On the origin of the fossil bones discovered in the vicinity of Tise's Ford, 

Florida. (P. 1883) 548 

Shell heaps of Tampa Bay, Florida. (E. 1879) 345 

The aborigines of Florida. (E. 1881) 515,481 

Wall, G. P. ; Sawkixs, J. G. Eeport on survey of economic geology of Trini- 
dad. (E.1856) .♦ 91 

Wallach, E. ; Hexry, J. Eeport of Committee of Eegents ou the fire at 

Smithsonian. (R. 1864) 188 

Walrus, remains of, in Maiue— C. H. Boyd. (P. 1881) 467 

Wampanoag Indians of Massachusetts, notes on the — Henry E. Chase. (R. 

1833) 588,593 

Wampum belts of the six nations — W. M. BeauChamp. (R. 1879) 345 

War Department, authority given by, to officers of Qiuutermaster'sDeiiartment 

to receive and transmit sijccimens to Smithsonian 34 

Warblers — 

golden, American, review of — E. Eidgway. (P. 1885) 650 

new, from Santa Lucia, West Indies— E. Eidgway. (P. 1882) 518 

new, from Yucatan, description of— E. Eidgway. (P. 1885) 650 

Ward, L. F.— 

Barometer tube breaking suddenly. (E. 1866) 214 

Catalogue of collection of Japanese woods presented by University of Tokio, 

Japan. (P. 1881) 467 

Check-list of plants of Washington and vicinity 461 

Directions for collecting and preserving plants 460 

Guide to flora of Washington and vicinity 444 

Eeport ou department of fossil plants. National Museum, for 1884. (E. 

1884,11) 648 

Eeport on department of plants, National Museum for 1885. (E. 1885, ii) 652 

Waring, G. E., Jr. Suggestions for the sanitary drainage of Washington. 

Toner lectures. No. viii 505, 349 



CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 8G1 

Wanning — 

and ventiliitinj^ buildings. Piirts i, ii— A. MoiiiN'. (R. 1873; R, 1374) 275, 

266, 439 

architecture in relation to — D. B. Reid. (R. 185G) 91 

Wakxer, J. Big elephant mound in Grant County, Wis. (R. 1872) 271 

Warren, G. K. Report on collections made by — F. B. Mekk ; F. V. IIaydex .. 172 
Wartmaxx, E. Report on transactions of tho Society of Physics and Natural 

History of Geneva, July, 1867, to Juno, 1868. (R. 18i;8) 224 

Washington, Ark., meteorological observations near — N. D. S.aiitii 131 

Washington, D. C. See Anthropological, Biological, and Philosophical Socie- 
ties, 
canal of, report of Committee of Regents on — R. Delafield. (R. 1868) ... 224 

flora of, and vicinity, guide to the— L.F.Ward 444 

notice of, in Harriot's travels 330 

notice of, in Isaac Weld's ti-avels 3.10 

prehistoric remains in vicinity of— T. R. Peale. (R. 1872) 271 

sanitary drainage of. Toner lecture No. viii— G. E. Waring, Jr 505, 349 

Washington County, Md., antiquities in — John P. Smith. (R. 183,') 535,540 

Washington Territory — 

tishes of— T. H. Beax. (P. 1881) 467 

forest trees in, distribution of— W. W. Johnson. (R. 1870) 244 

Indians of^J. G. Swan 220 

Klikitat River, aboriginal works on— T. M. WniTCO.MB. (R. ]S8l) 481,515 

Macrnrus acrolepis, new species of, from, description of — T. II. Bean. (P. 

1883) 548 

method of taking surf smelt by Indians of— J. G. Swax. (P. 1880) 425 

Neah Bay, description of two speciesof Ushea {AsceJicthys rliodorm and Scyta- 

Ihm- cerdalc) from -D. S. Jordan ; C. H. Gilbert. (P. 1880) 425 

notes on Bendire's collection of fishes from— T. H. Beax. (P. 1882) 518 

J. G. Swan, collection of fishes from, notes on— T. H. Bean. (P. 1883).. .. 548 

Spokane River, new species of ZJraHuZfia from — R. Smith. (P. 1832) 518 

Wasps — 

American solitary, synopsis of- H'. De Saussure 254 

translation of De Saussure's monograph of— E . Norton 254 

Water- 
formation of ice at bottom of— M. E. Engeliiakdt. (R. 1866) 214 

from Gulf of Mexico, report on— W. G. Farlow. (P. 1881) 467 

in rivers, diminution of— H. G. Wex. (R. 1875) 293 

in rivers, method of ascertaining tho amount of— A. A. HuMriiREYS. (R. 

1858) - 109 

polluted, in Gulf of Mexico, destruction of fish by— W. C. W. Gr.A7.i:;R. (P. 

1881) 467 

salt, preservation of copper and iron in— A. K. Becqueijel. (R. 1861) 188 

sea, specific gravity of— D. Walker 1'^** 

Watkins, E. a. System of relationship of Cree Indians. (R. 1862) 150 

Watkixp, Joseph C. Mounds of Pike County, Mo. (R. 1881) 481,515 

Watson, S. Bibliographical index to North American botany. Parti. Pohj- 

petaloe 258 

Wayne County, 111., aiuiciuiti.'s of— H. V. Sibley. ^(R.188l) 481,515 



Weapons, savage, at Ce'itennial Exhibition, study of— E. H. Knight. (R^ 



1879) 



345, 415 



Weather, effect of moon on the— J. Henry. (R. 1871) 249 

Weavers, Navejo— W. Matthews. (E. 1881-1832) ^^1 

Webb, T. W. Account of Henry Draper's telescope. (R. 1864) 1^8 

Webster, H. E. Contributions to the natural history of the Bermudas. Part 

vn. Annelids .., 495.569 



862 CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 

Weights — 

atomic, recalcnlatiou of. Constants of Nature, Part v — F. W. Clarke 441 

and measures, English and French, tables of. (R. 1863 ; R. 1864) 187,188 

and measures, metric system of, with tables— H. A. Newtox. (R. 1865) -20t), 371 
and measures, new system of, with 8 as the metrical n amber — G. H. 

Knight. (R. 18G7) 215 

small, method of forming— R. Hare. (R. 1858) 109 

Weismann, A. Change of Mexican axolotl to amblystoma. (R. 1877) 323,401 

VVki.d, I. Account of the city of Washington, 1807 330 

Welling, J. C. Notes on the life and character of Joseph Henry 356, 338 

Welsh, language of Navajos said to resemble— S. Y. McMasters. (R. 1865) 209 

Welsh, J. Construction and verification of standard barometers. (R. 1859).. 110 
West Indian — 

Myadestes, synopsis of— L. Stejneger. (P. 1882) 518 

seal {Monachm tropicalis)—F. W. True ; F. A. Lucas. (R. 1834, ii) 648 

West Indies- 
birds of the. See Lawrence, G. N. ; Ober, F. A. 

island of Anguilla, contents of bone cave in— E. D. Cope 606, 489 

list of described birds of the, not in Smithsonian collection 185 

loxigiUa no.*]], description of new subspecies of— G. N. Lawrence. (P. 

1881) 467 

Martinique, occurrence of Loncheres armatus in — F. W. True. (P. 1884) 607 

new species o? Fulica caribcpa from — R. Ridgway. (P. 1884) 607 

Santa Lucia. New warblers from— R. Ridgway. (P. 1882) 518 

stone celts in the— G. J. GiBBS. (R.1877) 323 

West Virginia- 
Hampshire County, stone mounds in— L. A. Kengla. (R. 1883) 588,593 

occurrence of Canada porcupine in— G. B. GOODE. (P. 1878) 332 

Short Creek, shell deposits on— H. B. Hubbakd. (R. 1881) 515,481 

Whale fishery, the, and its appliances— J. T. Brown 511, 521, 555 

Wet and dry bulb thermometer, tables for — J. H. Coffin 87 

Wetherell, C. M.— 

Modern theory of chemical types. (R. 1863) 187 

Ozone and anto/.one. (R. 1864) 188,355 

Plan of a research upon the atmosphere. (R, 18G6) 214 

AVex, H. G. Diminution of the water of rivers and streams. (R. 1875) 298 

Wheeler expedition. See Explorations. 

list of Indian vocabularies lecei ved from the. (R. 1874) 286 

Whirlwind at St. Thomas, At..u,usi 21, 1871— A. Colding. (R. 1877) 323, 398 

Whitcomb, T. M. Aboriginal workN oti Klikitat River, Washington Territory. 

(R. 1881) 481,515 

White, C. A. — 

bibliography of— J. B. Marcou 625 

description of — 

new cretaceous pinna from New Mexico. (P. 1880) 425 

new cretaceous invertebrate fossils from Kansas ami Texas. (P. 1879). 333 
new invertebrate fossils from the mesozolc and i-.-iio/.i)ic rocks of Arkan- 
sas, Wyominjr, Colorado, and Utah. (P. 1880) 425 

new species of earboniferous invertebrate fossils. (P. 1879) 333 

very large fossil ^'asteropod from State of Puebla, Mexico. (P. 1880).. 425 
new molluscan forms from the Laramie and Green River groups, with dis- 
cussion of some associated forms heretofore unknown. (P. 1832) 518 

note on — 

acrothele. (P. 1880) 425 

Criocardium and Ethmocardium. (P. 1879) 333 



CATALOGUE OF TUBLICATIONS. 863 

WniTE, C. A.— Continued, 
note on — 

Endothyra ornata. (P. 1879) 333 

occnrrenco of rroductus gigantcus in California. (P. 1880) 42.") 

occurrence of Stricklandia salteri and Stricklandia davidsoni in Georgia. 

(P. 1880) r... 4'25 

on certain cretaceous fossils from Arkansas and Colorado. (P. 1881) 4G7 

on the Macrocheiius of Phillips, Plectostylus of Conrad, and Solctiiscns of ]\Ieok 

andWorthen. (P. 1883) 548 

report oq department of invertebrate fossils, National Museum, for 1884. 

(R. 1884, II) 648 

Report on department of invertebrate fossils {Meso-Cenozoic), National Mu- 

zeum, for 1885. (R, 1885, 11) 654 

the molluscau fauna of the Truckee group, including a new form. (P. 1882) 518 
Whitefish— 

{coregonus nelsonii) from Alaska, description of— T. 11. Bean. (P. 1884) 607 

description of species of— T. H. Be ax. (P. 1882) 518 

White River Canon — 

ancient remains in — R. T. Bkox. (R. 1882) 540 

Pima County, Ariz., ruins in— R. T. BUKR. (R. 1879) 345 

White River, Indiana, east fork of, fishes collected in, list of— C. II. Gilisert. 

(P. 1884) 607 

White Water River, Indiana, remains on— G. W. Horxsher. (R. 1882) 535, 540 

Whitesides County, 111., mounds in — J. D.Moody. (R. 1881) 481,515 

Whitney, J. D. — 

Catalogue of rocks, minerals, etc. (R. 1851) 75 

Cave in Calaveras County, Cal. (R. 18G7) 215 

Whitney', W. D. Lectures on principles of linguistic science. (R. 1803) . . . 187, 352 
Whittlesey, C— 

Ancient mining on shores of Lake Superior 155 

Copper implements from Bayfield, Wis. (R. 1885) (i45, 649 

Descriptions of ancient works in Ohio 37 

On the fluctuations of level in North American lakes 119 

On fresh-water glacial drift of the Northwestern States 197 

The great mound on the Etowah River, Georgia. (R. 1881) 481,515 

Wickersham, James, mounds in Sangamon County, 111. (R. 1883) r>S8, 593 

Wilkes, C, duplicate shells of exploring expedition under 193 

Will of Smithson. (R. 1853) B, G7, 328, 330 

WillemcBsia group of Crustacea, recent {Eryontida;,) notice of new species of 

the— S. L Smith. (P.1879) 333 

Williams, H. C. On antiquities in some of the Southern States. ( R. 1870) 244 

Williamson, G. Antiquities in Guatemala. (R. 187G). 299 

Williams, Mark, ancient earthworks in China. (R. 1885) G45, G49 

Williamson, James M. Mounds in Carroll County, 111. (R. 1882) 535, 540 

Willis, Merritt. Shell beds in West Chester, N.Y. (P. 1883) 548 

Willis, J. R. ; Blackistox ; Bland. Birds of Nova Scotia. (R. 1858) 109 

Willis, J. R. ; Bland. Birds of Bermuda. (R. 1858) 109 

WiLLiSTON, S. W. Synopsis of North American SyrphidjB 653 

Wilmot, S. Notes on western gizzard shad, Dorosoma cepedianum hclerurum. 

(P. 1878) 332 

Wilson, D. Lectures on physical ethnology. (R. 18()2) 150 

Wilson, Henry, eulogy on— P. Parker. (R. 1875) 298 

Wiltheiss, E. T. Earthworks and mounds in Miami County, Oljio. (R. 

1884) 020,623 



864 CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 

Wind— 

and fog— J. BAI.FOUR. (R. 1S66) 214 

articles on, preserved in Smithsonian. (E. 1874) 286 

changes of— C. Mallixikuoot. (R. 186G) , 214 

connection of gales of, and appearance of aurora — R. T. Kxigiit ; J. Henry. 

(R. 1871) 249 

observations of, in the — 

Arctic Seas— 1. 1. Hayes 196 

Arctic Seas— E. K. Ka^te 104 

Arctic Seas— F. L. McClintock 146 

United States 157 

relation between difference of pressure and velocity of— J. Hanx. (R. 

1877) 323,398 

Winds — 

in Florida— J. Baltzell. (R, 1866) 214 

of the globe— J. H. Coffin 268 

of the northern hemisphere— J. H. Coffin 52 

tipper, importance of attention to the— C. Dewey. (R. 18CG) 214 

Wing, Daniel. Shell-heaps in Barnstable County, Mass. (R. 1881) 481, 515 

WiNLOCK, W. C. — Account of progress in Astronomy. (R. 1885) 649, 644 

Winnipeg Lake, egging expedition to— D. GuNN. (R. 1867) 215 

WiNSLOW, F., catalogue of economic mollusca of the United States at the Lon- 
don Fisheries Exhibition in 1883 511,531,554 

WiRTZ, H. R. Herbarium captured in Tennessee. (R. 1862) 150 

Wisconsin — 

antiquities in— M. Strong. (R. 1877) 323 

antiquities of— I. Lapham 70 

Bayfield, copper implements from — C. Whittlesey. (R. 1885) 645, 649 

earthworks in— E. E. Breed. (R. 1872) 271 

Grant County, elephant mound in— J. Warner. (R. 1872) 271 

Grant County, observations on prehistoric mounds of — M. Strong, (li. 

1876) 299 

mound in— C. K. Dean. (R. 1872) 271 

mounds and osteology of mound-builders of— J. N. De Hart. (R. 1877) 323 

mound in— W. G. Andersox. (R. 1879) 345 

National Home, mounds near — George W. Barber — (R. 1881) 481, 515 

salamander of— P. R. Hoy. (R. 1854) 75 

Winnebago County, mounds in— T. Armstrong. (R. 1879) 345 

Wise, J., on observations by, of a thunder-storm — R. Hare. (R. 1854) 75 

Wiseman, N. Identification of the artisan and artist. (R. 1870) 244 

WisSNER, J. Meteorology of the District of Columbia. (R. 1857) 107 

Withers, R. E. Memorial address on Joseph Henry 356 

WOEIKOFF, A. — 

Discussion of winds of the globe 268 

Meteorology in Russia. (R. 1872) 271 

Wolstenholm Sound, tidal record at — Com. Saunders 130 

Wood- 
ancient implement of, from Connecticut— E. W. Ellsworth. (R. 1876)... 299 

preservation of. (R. 1864) 188 

Wood, H. C— 

Bibliograiihy of algse • 241 

Contribution to the history of the fresh-water algae of North America 241 

Fever. A study in morbid and normal physiology. (R. 1878) 341, 357 

Instructions for collecting myriapods, phalangidiB, etc. (R. 1866) 214 

Study of nature and mechanism of fever. Toner lecture No. IV 28^ 



CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 865 

Wood, J. Meteorological observations at Marietta, Ohio i;>0 

Woods of Japan, collection of, presented to U. S. National Museum, catalogue 

of— L. F. Ward. (P. 1881) ^__ 4G7 

Woodward, J. J.— Structure of cancerous tumors and mode in which adjacent 

parts are invaded. Toner lecture No. i 266 

WooDWORxn, A. Meteorite in Mexico. (R. 18G7) .'15 

WoOLSEy, T. D. Eulogy on C. C. Felton. (R. 18G1) M'J 

Work, relation of food, to, and its bearing on medical practice— S. IIaugiitox. 

(R. 1870) 244 

Workshops in Jefferson County, Ala. William Gksxku. (R. 1881) 481,515 

Works published by Smithsonian Institution to January, ISGO 203 

World, estimate of population of the — E.Mailly. (R. 1873) 275 

World's Industrial and Cottoa Centennial Exposition of 1834-85, at New Or- 
leans, preliminary plans for collections to be exhil)itcd at. (P. 1884) 

007, 597, 598, 599, 602, 604 

Worm from Arctic Alaska, description of — J. Mukdock. (P. 1884) C07 

Worms of the United States at London Fisheries Exliibition in 1883, catalogue 

of— R. Ratiibux 511,521,522 

WoKSAAE, J. J. A. Preservation of antiquities and national nionumentsin Den- 
mark. (R. 1879) 345 

Wounds of poisoned arrows, lecture on nature and cure of— D. Craixakd. (R. 

1854) 75 

Wright, C, account of botanical explorations of, in New Mexico and Calil'or- 

uia— A. Gray. (R. 1849) 21 

Wright, C, account of i^lants collected by, in Texas and New Mexico. Parts 

I, II— A. Gray 22,42 

Wright, D. F. Antiquities of Tennessee. (R. 1874) 28G 

Wright, G. Account of lightning discharges. (R. 18G7) 215 

Writings, scientific of— 

Sir William Ilerschel, synopsis of— E. S. IIoldkx ; C. S. PIastixgs. (R. 

1880) 442,426 

James Smithson 327 

Joseph Henry 558,550 

WiJRDEMAXN, G. — 

Notice of— A. D. Bache. (R. 1859) 110 

Specimens of flamingo, etc., from south Florida. (R. 18G0) 147 

WuRDEMANX, W. ; Greex, J. Oq filling barometer tubcs. (R. 1859) 110 

Wyandotte County, Kans., mounds in— E. F. Leaviss. (R. 1881) 481,515 

Wyandot goverumeut—J. W. Powell. (E. 1879-80) 47G 

Wymax, J. Anatomy of nervous system of Bana pipicns 45 

Wj-oming, new invertebrate fossils from — C. A. White. (P. 1880) 425 

X. 

Xaxtus, Johx— 

Collection of fishes at Capo San Lucas, catalogue of— U. S. Jordax; C. II. 

Gilbert. (P. 1882) 518 

Collection of fishes at Colima, Mexico, catalogue of— 1). S. Jordax; C. II. 

Gilbert. (P. 1882) 518 

Explorations of, in Mexico— M. Romero. (R.18G2) 150 

Xeuichthys ocyurus, new species oi Xcniclithysivom. west coast of Central Amer- 
ica, description of— D. S. Jordax; C. II. Gilbert. (P. 1881) 4G7 

Xerobatos, laud tortoises of genus— F. W. True. (P. 18S1) 4G7 

Xiphiids, nomenclature of the— T. Gill. (P. 1882) 518 

Xiphister, description of now species of, from Monterey, Cal. — D. S. Jordax; 

C.n. Gilbert. (P. 1880) 425 

n. Mis. 170 55 



866 CATALOGUE OF PUBLICATIONS. 

Xyrichtbys — 

psittacns, notes oa—G. E. Goode ; T. H. Bean. (P. 1884) 607 

rosipcs, new species, description of— D. S. Jordan ; C. H. Gilbert. (P. 1884) 607 
Xystreurys liolcpis, now flonuder from Santa Cataliua Island, Cal., description 

of— D. S. Jordan ; C. H. Gilbert. (P. 1880) 425 

Y. 

Yacht Fox — 

meteorological observations made on — F. L. McClintock 146 

Yale College — 

catalogue of meteorites in — G. J. Brush. (R. 1868) 224 

museum, list of fishes collected by Prof. Frank H. Bradley — D. S. Jordan; 

C.H.Gilbert. (P. 1882) 518 

Yarrow, II. C — 

Check-list of North American reptilia and batrachia 493 

Descriijtion of new species of reptiles and amphibians in the U. S. National 

Museum. (P. 1882) 518 

Description of new species of reptiles in the U. S. National Museum {Entce- 
nia vagrans plutonia ; Entcenia hensliaici, Bascanium flagell'tforme licinc- 

tum, Tropidonoius comprcssicandas icallceri.) (P. 1883) 548 

Report on department of reptiles and batrachians. National Museum, for 

1884. (R. 1884, ii) 648 

Report on department of reptiles. National Museum, for 1885. (R. 1885, ii). 654 
Study of mortuary customs of the North American Indians. (E. 1879-1880). 476 

Yellow porch, note on scientific name of— D. S. Jordan. (P. 1885) 650 

Yellowstone River, prehistoric remains near the — P. W. Norris. (R. 1879) 345 

Yoruba, Africa — 

country and people of, description of — T. J. BowEN 98 

language of, bibliography of 98 

language of, grammar and dictionary of— T. J. Bowen ; W. \V. Turner.. 98 
language of, grammar and dictionary of— Southern Baptist Missionary 

Society 98 

YoUxXG, C. B.— 

Translation of Morin on warming and ventilating buildings. (R. 1873; 

R. 1874) 275,286,439 

Translation of Von Baumhaner on a universal meteorograph. (R. 1879) 345 

Young, Thomas, eulogy on, by F. Arago. (R. 1869) 228 

YouNG,W. J. Cloudbursts. (R. 1867) 215 

Yu (Chinese name of jado), study of— S. Bloxdel. (R. 1876) 299 

Yucatan — 

Cozumel, Albatross collection of birds from, catalogue of— R. Ridgway. 

(P. 1885) 650 

now warbler from, description of—R. Ridgway. (P. 1885) 650 

remarks on Cava glgantesca of Yzamal in — A. Schott. (R. 1869) 228 

Yukon, Russian America, journey to the — W. W. KiRBY. (R. 1864) 188 

Y''zamal, Y'ucatan, remarks on Cava gigantesca of— A. Schott. (R. 1869) 228 

Z. 

Zantedeschi, F. R. Electricity of induction in aerial strata of atmosphere 

surrounding cloud resolving into rain, etc. (R. 1870) 244 

Zapotec remains, notice of— B. Mayer ; J. G. Sawkins 86 

Zeledon, JosiS C. Catalogue of the birds of Costa Rica, indicating those spe- 
cies of which the U. S. National Museum possesses specimens from 
that country. (P. 1885) 655 



CATALOUGE OF PUELICATIOXS. 867 

ZipMiis grcbnit/Jvii, now species, description of- L. Stejnegkk. (P. 1883) 548 

ZiSGENBAl.s, II. Scliiagintweit ethuograpliic collection. (R. 16G7) '215 

Zone of small planets between Mars aiul Juijiter, lecture on the — E. Loo.aiis. 

(E. 1854) 7 

Zooloi::ical — 

Gardens, Hamburg. Exchange of specimens. (R. 18f)7) '215 

position of Texas— E. D. Cope 412 

Record, list of generic names suppleuieufal to those indexed in— S. II. 

SCUDDER 470 

Zoologicus,Noraenclator. A list of generic names of recent and fossil animals — 

S. II. SCUDDKR 470 

Zoology— 

•Account of progress in — T. Gill — 

1881 (R. 1881) 515,487 

1882 (R. 1862) .540,533 

1833 (R. 188.3) 503,582 

1884 (R. 1884) (i23, 617 

1885 (,R. 1885) 049,64^3 

list of generic names employed in— S. H. Scuddeh 470 

record of recent progress in, 1879, 1880- T. Gill. (R. 1880) 442, 431 

Zuui, culture growth— F. H. CusmxG 652 

Zuui fetiches— F. H. Gushing. (E. 1880-1881) ^42 

Zygonectes — 

auroguttatus, description of -O. P. Hay. (P. 1885) f'50 

inurus, description of— D. S. JoRD^vx ; C. II. Gilbert. (P. 1882) 518 

zonifer, new species from Nashville, Ga., description of— D. S. Jordan; S. 

E. Meek. (P. 1884) ^^^"^ 



IISTDKIX. 



A. 

Page. 

Accounts, system of 3 

Agencies, I'oreigu, of tho lustidilion !)•> 

Alaska, accouut of Indians of, by H. T. Allen 258 

Commercial Com[)any, co-operation of G 

explorations in, by C. II. Towusend G 

A Ibatross, explorations by the 45 

Allen, H. T., the Atuatanas of Alaska 258 

Alphal)etical index of Smithsonian iJtihlications, by W. J. Rinses G40 

Anatomy, comparative, department of 4G 

Annuity, proposed, disapproved by Regents xiii 

Anthropology, papers relating to 205 

Antiquities, department of 38 

Appendix, general 203 

Appropriation for year 1880-87 by the Itegeuts xiii 

Appropriations by Congress for ethnological researelies xvi, xvii 

international exchanges xvi, 20 

U. S. National Museum xvii 

Areliajology, department of 38 

of Michoacan, by Dr. N. Leon 30G 

Archieologic symbols GG 

Arctic America, explorations in 5 

Argentine Eepublic, correspondence with, on exchanges 107 

Arizona, explorations in 8 

Armory building. National Museum xvii 

Art, ancient', relation of, to Mexican antic^uities, by \V. II. Holmes 319 

Arts and industries, department of 33 

Asia, explorations and collections in ^ 10 

Astronomical observations, report on, by G. II. Boehmer 367 

Atlantic coast of the United States, contributions from 9 

Austria-Hungary, correspondence with, on exchanges 109 

B. 

IJache, A. D., portrait of 2 

Baird,S. F., letters from, on exchanges 10,"), 109, HI 

to Committee on the Library of Congress 102 

report of 1 

Balances veriiied by Executive Committee xviii 

];ayard,T.F., Secretary of State, letters from, on exchanges 104, 105, lOG, 111 

Bean, T. H., department of fishes 41 

Beckwith, Paul, customs of the Dakota Indians 245 

Belgian minister, letter from, on exchanges 104 

869 



870 INDEX. 

Bendire,C.E,, collection of nests and eggs presented by ." 7 

department of oology 41 

explorations by 7 

Bequest iiroposed by B. Pickmau Mann xiii 

Bernadou, J. B., collections presented by 10 

Beyer, H. G., section of materia medica 34 

Bibliography of Isaac Lea 15 

F. B. Meek 16 

C. D. Walcott 17 

C.A.White 16 

Binney, W. G., manual of American land shells 15 

Birds, department of 39 

eggs, collection of 41 

nests and eggs, collection of Bendire and Merrill presented 7 

department of 41 

Board of Regents x,2 

journal of x^ 

Boehmer, G, H., arrangements by, for exchanges with Austria-Hungary 109 

list of foreign correspondents 1 13 

rej)ort on astronomical observatories 367 

exchanges 83 

Bolles, T. Dis, collections by 7 

Bolton, H. C. , catalogue of scientific and technical periodicals 12 

index to the literature of Uranium 14 

Botany, names by California Indians 235 

British Government, correspondence with, on exchanges Ill 

Museum, exchanges with Ill 

Brussels convention on inteimitional exchanges 104 

Buffalo, specimens of, procured by W. T. Hornaday 7 

Building, additional, for U. S. National Museum required 4 

annex, removal of, important 4 

for Museum, appropriation xvii 

required for alcoholic collections 4 

stones, collection of 49 

prepared for M. K. Jesup xvi 

Buildings 3 

Bulleti ns of the U. S. National Museum 15 

Bureau of Ethnology, appropriations for xvi, xvii 

explorations by 9 

operations of , 9, CI 

publications of 19 

C. 

California, explorations in, by P. H. Ray 8 

California Indians, botany of 235 

Cantwell, Lieutenant, explorations by 6 

Catalogue of scientific and technical periodicals, by H. C. Bolton 12 

Smithsonian publications, by W. J. Rhees 485 

Cenozoic section of department of invertebrate fossils 47 

Central America, explorations in 9 

Charm stones, by Dr. L. G. Yates 296 

Chemical literature indexes 14 

Clarke, F. W., department of minerals 48 

Clark, A. II., section of historical relics 36 



INDEX. 871 

Page. 

Classified list of Smithsonian publications, by W. J. lihces (i07 

Columbus, 400tli anniversary of discovery of America by, proposed exposition 

in 1892 5 

Commander Islands, explorations of 7 

ornithology Ifi 

Comparative anatomy, department of 4G 

Congress, action by, establishing international exchange 101 

appropriation by, for exchanges 20 

ethnological researches xvi,xvii 

international exchanges xvi 

U. S. Xational Museum xvii 

letter of Secretary transmitting report to iii 

resolutions of, to print annual Smithsonian reports ii,lrf 

Contents of report for 18SG v 

Contributions to Knowledge, account of 11 

foreign establishments receiving 201 

Conventions for exchanges 22 

Coke, investigation of 50 

research on, for J. Hotchkiss xvi 

Cope, E. D., report on reptiles 41 

Copped, Dr. Henry, re-elected Eegent 2 

member of Executive Committee xi,2 

Copper Eiver, natives of, account of, by II. T. Allen .... 258 

Corea, explorations in - 10 

Correspondence, increase of force em[)loyed 1 

Correspondents, foreign, list of 113 

Corwin, cruise of the 6 

Costa Eica, collections from 10 

Cuba, collections from 10 

CuUom, Hon. Shelby M. (Senator), appointed Regent xi 

Cunard line of steamers, free freight by 93 

D. 

Dakota Indians, customs of 245 

Dall, W. H., department of mollnsks 43 

De Melsbroeck, Belgian minister, letter from, on exchanges 104 

Dewey, F. P., department of metallurgy 49 

Documents for exchange, deficiencies of 103 

Duges, A., explorations by 9 

E. 

Earll, E. E., section of fishes and animal })roducts •-5 

Earthworks at Fort Ancient, Ohio, by W. M. Thompson 335 

Eells, Rev. M., stone age of Oregon 283 

Eggs, collections of, Bendire and Merrill, presented by 7 

Entomology, department of 44 

Establishment, the, members ex officio of i^ 

Estimates for 1887 ^"f 

Ethnological researches, condition of appropriations, July 1, 1886 xvi, xvii 

Ethnology, bureau of, appropriations for ^^'i ^'^'n 

explorations by ^ 

operations of *'> l*^ 

publications of ^^ 

report of researches by •''1 

department of, in National Musetim ^'j 



872 INDEX. 

P»ge. 

Exchanges, additious to list of correspoudeuts • 113 

Argeutine Kepublic 107 

Austria-Huugary 109 

Brussels convention 104 

condition of appropriations, July 1, L-'i^G xvi, xvii 

Congressional action relative to 101 

cost of, 1846-1886 101 

duty of Public Printer 102 

facilities granted bj' transportation companies 92 

foreign agencies 109 

centers of distribution 96 

free transportation for 21 

Great Britain Ill 

increase of force employed 1 

international, statistics 19 

report on, G. H. Boehmcr 8:5 

shipments for 1P50-1886 91 

special agent needed in Europe 23 

U. S. Government 22 

documents, exchange 101 

Executive Committee of the Board of Eegeuts x 

certify to correctness of accounts xviii 

election of members 2 

to approve expenditures xiii 

Expenditures of Institution to June 30, 1886.' xv 

Explorations for 1886, account of 5 

by Bureau of Ethnology 51 

F. 

Finances 3 

of Institution, exhibit of, presented xii 

Fish casts prepared for M. K. Jesup xvi 

Fish Conmiission, U. S., account of 80 

explorations by 6,9,10 

investigations by 42 

Fisheries, section of 34 

Fishes, department of 41 

Fleming, S., Time-reckoning for the twentieth century 345 

Fliigel, Dr., services as exchange agent 97 

Foreign agents of Smithsonian Institution 99 

correspondents, additions to 113 

Fort Ancient, Ohio, earthworks at, by W. M. Thompson 335 

Fossil invertebrates, list of publications relating to, by J, B. Marcou 16 

plants, department of ' 47 

Fossils, invertebrates, department of 46 

Freight, free, for exchanges 21 

statistics of 93 

Fund, Smithsonian, condition of, in 1886 xv,3 

Funds administered by Institution xvii 

Furniture and fixtures, U. S. National Museum xvii 

G. 

Gaumer, G. F. , collections presented by 9 

Geological Survey, explorations by 9 

operations of 63 



INDEX. 873 

Gool()<;y, licouomic, ilcparl incut of f,() 

physical, tlepartmciit of .\<j 

Goodc, G. B., departiiicut of arts and iiidiislrics ;j;j 

GovoriiiiK'iit, assistance by, to exchaii^t^es 2(t 

documents, excliauj;o of Kjl 

exchangos 85 

Gray, Asa, re-olcctcd Reg(3ut o 

Great Britain, correspondouce with, ou exchanges Ill 

Grebnitsky, explorations by 7 

Green, L. \V. , explorations by rt 

Gucsde, L., collections pi-csented by 10 

Gutierez, M. F., letter on exchanges wilii Argcnliuc Jvcpublic 107 

H. 

Habel bequest xv 

Ilanibnrg-Anierican racket Company, free freigli! by 01 

Hamilton bequest xv 

Harvard University, Mercer biMjuest (o xiii 

Healy, Cai>tain, explorations by (I 

Henry, Professor J., scieutilic writings of 1:5 

Herbarium, account of 47 

Historic relics :'>."> 

Hitchcock, E., section of textiles and foods I?:? 

Holmes, W. H., dei)artmeut of American aborigiiuil pottery !?rf 

spurious Mexican antiquities 319 

Hoopa Indians, collection illustrating 8 

Hornaday, W. T., specimens of bufialo procured by 7 

Hotchkiss, J., apparatus provided by -^0 

fuud from, for research xvi, xvii 

Hupa or Hoopa Indians 8,205 

I. 

Illustrations to Report, list of : viii 

Income, appropriation of, for b^SG-'87 xiii 

Indexing chemical literature 14 

Indian languages *>•> 

Indians, California, botany of 2:55 

Dakota, customs of, by P. Beck witli 24.') 

Hupa, account of 205 

Quinaielt, of Washington Territory 7, 2G7 

Insects, department of 'J^ 

Instruments, collection of -'b 

International exchanges ^'^ 

Invertebrate fossils, department of 4(< 

Invertebrates, marine, department of 45 

J. 

Jamaica, collections from ''' 

Japan, collections presented by department of education of 11 

explorations in ^ 

Jesup, M. K., fund from, for research xvi.xvii 

Johnson, J. W., explorations by ^* 

Journal of proceedings of the Board of licgents >^' 

Jouy, P. L., explorations by 



874 INDEX. 

K. 

Page. 

Kamtscliatka,, ornithology 16 

Keam, Thomas, explorations by 9 

Knowlton, F. H., (lei)artment of plants 47 

L. 

Labrador, explorations in, by L. M. Turner 5 

Language, Indian 65 

Lea, Isaac, bibliography of 16 

Lenox, W., portrait of 2 

Leon, Dr. Nickolas, archseology of Michoacau (Mexico) 306 

Library Committee of Congress h5 

of Congress 23 

Smithsonian, statistics of 1846-1886 93 

statistics of, 1875 to 1886 25 

''Lieuzo," drawing on linen, Tucutacato, by Dr. N. Leon 306 

List of foreign correspondents, additions to 113 

of the lusti tution 14 

institutions in United States receiving publi- 
cations 12 

Lithology, department of 49 

Lyman, T., investigations by 45 

M. 

McKay, C. L., explorations by 7 

Maclean, John, re-elected regent 2 

resignation of, from Executive Committee xii 

Mammals, department of 39 

Mann, B. Pickman, letter of, relativ^e to bequest to the Institution xii,xiii 

Manual of American land shells, by W. G. Binney 15 

Marcou, J. B., investigation by 47 

publications relating to fossil Invertebrates 16 

Marine invertebrates, department of , 45 

Mason, O.T., department of ethnology 36 

on the Ray collection from Hupa reservation 205 

Maury, J, W., portrait of 2 

Meek, F.B., bibliography of 16 

Meigs, General M. C, appointed Eegeut xi,2 

elected to Executive Committee xii, 2 

Meleagrinse (pearl oysters), parasites in, by E. E. C. Stearns 339 

Mercer, Eev. Alexander G., bequest of xiii 

Merrill, G. P., department of lithology 49 

Merrill, J. C, collection of eggs presented by 7 

Mesozoic section of department of invertebrate fossils 47 

Metallurgy, department of 50 

Mexican antiquities and their relation to ancient art, by W. H. Holmes 319 

archiEology , by Dr. N. Leon 306 

Mexico and Central America, collections from 9 

birds of, determination of 40 

explorations in 9 

Michoacan, Mexico, archaeology of, by Dr. N. Leon 306 

Miudeleff, C. and V., explorations by 9 

Minerals, dcv)artment of 48 

Miscellaneous Collections, account of 12 

foreign establishments receiving 200 



INDEX. 875 

raj:e. 

Mitchell, S. W., rcsoarc-lies upon vmonis of .soip(!iits H 

Mollnsks, department of .j;5 

Montana, explorations in 7 

Mound explorations 5j 

Muller, Frederick, appointed a,;;ent in 13(J3 97 

Museum, U. S. National, account of og 

building 4 

bulletins 15 

condition of finances xvii 

staff of 29 

N. 

National Museum, U. S. (see Museum). 

Navajo artist, account of, l)y K. W. .Sliufcldt 240 

Nelson, E. W., exploration by 8, 9 

New building required for U. S. National Museum 4 

New Orleans Exposition, temporary building for 3 

New Mexico, explorations in 8 

Nichols, H, E., collections by 7 

North German Lloyd, free freight by 93 

O. 

Observatories, report on, by G. 11. Boehnier 3()7 

Officers of the Institution i x 

Ohio, Fort Ancient, earthworks at, by W. ]\I. Thomjison :!:>;') 

Oology, dei)artment of II 

Oregon, stone age of, by Rev. M. EelLs 2d3 

Ornithologists' Union 40 

Ornithology of the Commander Islands, Kamtsciiatka 16 

P. 

Paleontological bibliographies IG 

Paleozoic section of department of invertebrate fossils 46 

Palmer, E., collections presented by 10 

explorations by b 

Pearl oysters, parasites, etc., by E. E. C. Stearns 339 

Periodicals, catalogue of scientific and technical 12 

Phelps, Hon, W. W., appointed Regent xi, 'J 

Plants, department of 47 

Plummets or sinkers, by Dr. L, G. Yates 296 

Poey, F., collections i)resented by 10 

Portrai ts of Regents 2 

Pottery, department of American aboriginal ;''7 

Powell, J. W., Director of Bureau of Ethnology I'J 

ethnological researches bj' xvii 

Preservation of collections, U. S. National Museum xvii 

Printing annual reports, delay in 1*^ 

Proceedings in the U. S. National Museum 17 

account of 17 

Publications, Smithsonian, account of H 

alphabetical index of, by W. J. Rhees 640 

classified list of, by W. J. Rhees 607 

catalogue of, by W. J. Rhees 485 



876 INDEX. 

Page 

Publiciil ioiiH, Siiiiilisoiiian, foreii;ii establishments, receiving "201 

list of institutions in the United States receiving . 1*2 

by U. S. National Museum KJ 

Q. 

Qninaiflt Iiiilians, Wasliington Territory, by C. Willoughby 267 

E. 

Kathbun, R., departiucut of marine invertebrates 45 

Ran, C, department of antiquities '-^S 

Eay, P. II., collection from Iloopa Reservation, by O. T. Mason 205 

exploration by 8 

Recei])ts aiidexpiJnditures of the Institution 3 

of Institution to June 30, 1886 xv 

Regents of the Institution for 1886 - x 

changes in the Board of 2 

Journal of Proceedings of xi 

Reichert, E. T., researches upon venoms of sc-rpents 11 

Repayments to the Institution xvi 

Report, annual, for 1886, subjects of i v 

of Prof. S. F. Baird =--. 1 

of executive committee accepted xii 

for the year xv 

of Smithsonian Institution 17 

of the Secretary received xii 

on exchanges by G. II. Boehmer 83 

Smithsonian, annual account of printing 17 

Reports, Smithsanian, foreign establishments receiving 194 

Reptiles and batrachians, department of 41 

Researches by Jesup and Hotchkiss funds xvi 

Resolution of Congress relative to j)rinting annual report ii 

Rhees, W. J., catalogue of Smithsonian jiublications 48.'), 607, 640 

chief clerk x 

Ridgway, R., department of birds 40 

Riley, C. V. , department of entomology 44 

Rocks, collection of 49 

Rocky Mountain region, explorations in 7 

S. 

Scientific writings of Joseph Henry 13 

Scudder, N. P., bibliography of Isaac Lea by 15 

Secretary Baird's letter of transmittal to Congress iii 

report to Regents 1 

Serpents, venoms of, researches upon 11 

Shells, department of 43 

manual of American, by W. G. Binney 15 

Shepherd, A. R. , collections presented by 9 

Siierman, Senator John, acting Vice-President United States, and Regent xi 

member of the Board of Regents....-- 2 

Shipping list, exchange agents 95 

Shufeldt, R. W., explorations by 8 

Navajo artist 240 

Sidewalk, appropriation for xvii 



INDEX, 877 

r;i;;e. 

Si<;nal OlUce, oxploratious by, iu Labrador 5 

Service, withdrawal of stations 5 

Siuglctou, Hon. O. K., appointed Eegcnt xi,2 

Smith, J. B., department of entomology: 44 

Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge H 

fund, condition of, in IHir-G xv 

Miscellaneous Collections. 12 

publications, al])habctical index of, l)y W. J. Ivlices 640 

catalogue of, by W. J. Ehces 485 

classified list of, by W. J. Ehees 607 

Spofi'ord, A. K. , extracts from report of 23 

Si)urions Mexican antiquities, by W. H. Holmes 319 

Subjects of annual report for 1886 , iv 

State, Secretary of, letter from, on exchanges 104 

Stearns, E. E. C, department of mollusks 43 

liarasites, commensek, and domiciliars in pearl oysters 33'J 

Stejneger, L., explorations by 7 

ornithology of Commander Lslands and Kamtschatka IG 

Stephenson, James, exploitations by 9 

Stone age of Oregon, by Eev. M. Eells 283 

Streets, T. H., explorations by 7 

Swan, J. G., explorations by 7 

Synonomy of Indian tribes 65 

T. 

Taxidermists, exhibition by 32 

Thomas, C, explorations by 9 

Thompson, W. M., earthworks at Fort Ancient, Ohio 335 

Time-reckoning for the twentieth century, by S. Fleuiing 345 

Townsend, C. H., explorations in Alaska (5 

California 8 

Ti'ausportatiou companies, grants by 93 

free, of exchanges 21 

histoiical collection illustrating 36 

Tree, L., letter from, on exchanges 106 

True, F. W., department of mammals 39 

comparative £;natomy 46 

Turner, L. M., explorations by 5 

U. 

Uranium, index to literature of, by II. C. Bolton 14 

V. 

Veuoms of serpents, researches upon, by Mitchell and Eeichert 11 

Visitors to the Institution and Museum 31 

Vouchers, examination of, by Executive Committee xviii 

W. 

Wakott, CD., bibliography of 17 

department of paleozoic fossils 46 

War Department, aid rendered by ^ 

Ward, L. F., department of plants 47 

Washington Territory, explorations in 7 

Quinaielt Indians, by C. Willoughby 267 



878 INDEX. 

Page. 

Watkias, D. A., collections presented by 9 

Watkins, J. E. , section of transportation, historical collection 36 

Weissenfels, Count, letter to, on exchanges with Austria-Hangary 109 

Welling, Dr. James C, elected chairman of the Executive Committee xii, 2 

Weslej', William, appointed agent for exchanges in 1862 97 

West Indies, explorations in 10 

White, C. A., bibliography of 16 

department of meeozoic fossils 47 

Wilde, E., exchanges with Argentine Republic 107 

Wilkinson, M. E., collections presented by 9 

Willoughby, C. , Indians of Washington Territory 267 

Wilson, Hon. W. L., appointed Regent xi,2 

Wolfe, H. D., explorations by , 6 

Y. 

Yale College, Mercer bequest to xiii 

Yarrow, H. C, department of reptiles 41 

Yates, Dr. L. G., charm stones, plummets or sinkers 296 

Yeates, W. L., dej)artment of minerals 48 

Yucatan, explorations in 9 

Z. 

Zeledou, J. C, collections presented by 10 



