ANNUAL REPORT OF THE 
BOARD OF REGENTS OF 

THE SMITHSONIAN 
INSTITUTION 

SHOWING THE 

OPERATIONS, EXPENDITURES, AND 
CONDITION OF THE INSTITUTION 
FOR THE YEAR ENDED JUNE 30 

1947 




(Publication 3921) 



UNITED STATES 

GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE 

WASHINGTON : 1948 



For sale by the Supsrintendent of Documents, U. S. Government Printing Office, Washington 25, D. C. 

Price 32.00 (Buckram) 



LETTER OF TRANSMITTAL 



Smithsonian Institution, 
Washington, February IS, 1948. 

To the Congress of the United States: 

In accordance with section 5593 of the Revised Statutes of the 
United States, I have the honor, in behalf of the Board of Regents, 
to submit to Congress the annual report of the operations, expendi- 
tures, and condition of the Smithsonian Institution for the year ended 
June 30, 1947. I have the honor to be, 
Respectfully, 

A. Wetmore, Secretary. 



35?-^o 




iJ-.u 



^ON^l fcwiS^ 



C^a^^ 



CONTENTS 



Page 

List of officials v 

The establishment 2 

The Board of Regents 2 

Appropriations 5 

Smithsonian Centennial 6 

Finances 6 

Trust Funds' employees included under Federal Retirement System 7 

Visitors 8 

Photographic Laboratory 8 

Buildings and equipment 9 

Appendix 1. Report on the United States National Museum 11 

2. Report on the National Gallery of Art 24 

3. Report on the National Collection of Fine Arts 38 

4. Report on the Freer Gallery of Art 45 

5. Report on the Bureau of American Ethnology 53 

6. Report on the International Exchange Service 83 

7. Report on the National Zoological Park 90 

8. Report on the Astrophysical Observatory 118 

9. Report on the National Air Museum 124 

10. Report on the Canal Zone Biological Area 126 

11. Report on the library 152 

12. Report on publications 156 

Report of the executive committee of the Board of Regents 162 



GENERAL APPENDIX 



Large sunspots, by Seth B. Nicholson 173 

Atomic energy, by A. E. Johns 177 

Telegraphy — pony express to beam radio, by George C. Hillis 191 

Plutonium and other transuranium elements, by Glenn T. Seaborg 207 

The use of isotopes as tracers, by A. H. W. Aten, Jr., and F. A. Heyn 217 

Silicones — a new continent in the world of chemistry, by S. L. Bass 229 

New products of the petroleum industry, by Hugh W. Field 235 

The tsunami of April 1, 1946, in the Hawaiian Islands, by G. A. Macdonald, 

F. P. Shepard, and D. C. Cox 257 

Drowned ancient islands of the Pacific basin, by H. H. Hess 281 

The biology of Bikini Atoll, with special reference to the fishes, by Leonard 

P. Schultz 301 

The senses of bats, by Brian Vesey-FitzGerald 317 

MoUusks and medicine in World War II, by R. Tucker Abbott 325 

ni 



IV CONTENTS 

Page 
Some remarks on the influence of insects on human welfare, by Carl D. 

Duncan .' 339 

Mosquito control tests from the Arctic to the Tropics, by H. H. Stage 349 

The primary centers of civilization, by John R. Swanton 367 

The Ryukyu people: A cultural appraisal, by Marshall T. Newman and 

Ransom L. Eng 379 

Puzzle in Panama, by Waldo G. Bowman 407 

Comparison of propeller and reaction-propelled airplane performances, by 

Benson Hamlin and F. Spenceley 429 



LIST OF PLATES 



Secretary's report: 

Plates 1,2 46 

Plates 3, 4 92 

Large sunspots (Nicholson) : Plates 1, 2 176 

Telegraphy (HiUis): Plates 1-3 206 

Plutonium and other transuranium elements (Seaborg): Plate 1 216 

Isotopes as tracers (Aten and Heyn): Plate 1 228 

Silicones (Bass): Plates 1-3 230 

Tsunami of April 1, 1946 (Macdonald, Shepard, and Cox): Plates 1-6 280 

Biology of Bikini Atoll (Schultz): 

Plate 1 301 

Plates 2-17 310 

Senses of bats (Vesey-FitzGerald) : Plates 1-4 318 

Mollusks and medicine in World War II (Abbott): Plates 1-3 334 

Mosquito control tests (Stage): Plates 1-8 366 

The Ryukyu people (Newman and Eng.): Plates 1-5 406 

Puzzle in Panama (Bowman): Plates 1-8 414 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION 

June 30, 1947 

Presiding Oflicer ex officio. — Harky S. Tbuman, President of the United States. 
Chancellor. — Fred M. Vinson, Chief Justice of the United States. 
Members of the Institution: 

Harby S. Truman, President of the United States. 

Vice President of the United States. 

Fred M. Vinson, Chief Justice of the United States. 

George C. Mabshaxl, Secretary of State. 

John W. Snydee, Secretary of the Treasury. 

Robert P. Patterson, Secretary of War. 

Tom C. Clark, Attorney General. 

Robert E. Hannegan, Postmaster General. 

James Forrestal, Secretary of the Navy. 

Julius A. Kbug, Secretary of the Interior. 

Clinton P. Anderson, Secretary of Agriculture. 

William Averell Harkiman, Secretary of Commerce. 

Lewis B. Schwellenbach, Secretary of Labor. 
Regents of the Institution: 

Feed M. Vinson, Chief Justice of the United States, Chancellor. 

Vice President of the United States. 

Alben W. Babkley, Member of the Senate. 

Wali^ce H. White, Jr., Member of the Senate. 

Walter F. George, Member of the Senate. 

Clarence Cannon, Member of the House of Representatives. 

Samuel K. McConnell, Jr., Member of the House of Representatives. 

John M. Vorys, Member of the House of Representatives. 

Frederic A. Delano, citizen of Washington, D. C. 

Harvey N. Davis, citizen of New Jersey. 

Arthur H. Compton, citizen of Missouri. 

Vannevab Bush, citizen of Washington, D. C. 

Frederic C. Walcott, citizen of Connecticut. 
Executive Committee. — Frederic A. Delano, Vannevab Bush, Clarence Cannon. 
Secretary. — ^Alexander Wetmore. 
Assistant Secretary. — John E. Graf. 
Assistant Secretary. — J, L. Keddy. 

Administrative assistant to the Secretary. — Habby W. Dorsey. 
Treasurer. — Nicholas W. Dorset. 
Chief, editorial division. — Webster P. True. 
Librarian. — Leila F. Clark. 
Administrative accountant. — Thomas F. Claek. 
Personnel officer. — Bertha T. Carwithen. 
Chief, publications division. — L. E. Commerford. 
Purcfiasing officer. — Anthony W. Wilding. 



Vi ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947 

UNITED STATES NATIONAL MUSEUM 
Director. — ^Alexandee Wetmoee. 

SCrENTmC STAFF 

Depabtment op Anthropology : 

Frank M. Setzler, head curator; A. J. Andrews, chief preparator. 
Division of Archeology: Neil M. Judd, curator; Waldo R. Wedel, associate 
curator; J. E. Caldwell, scientific aid; J. Townsend Russell, honorary 
assistant curator of Old World archeology. 
Division of Ethnology: H. W. Krieger, curator; J. C. Ewers, associate cura- 
tor ; R. A. Elder, Jr., assistant curator ; Arthur P. Rice, collaborator. 
Division of Physical Anthropology: T. Dale Stewart, curator; M. T. New- 
man, associate curator. 
Collaborators in anthropology: George Grant MacCurdy, W. W. Tay- 
lor, Jr. 
Depabtment of Biology : 

Waldo L. Schmitt, head curator ; W. L. Brown, chief taxidermist ; Aime 
M. Awl, illustrator. 
Division of Mammals: Remington Kellogg, curator; D. H. Johnson, asso- 
ciate curator; A. Brazier Howell, collaborator; Gerrit S. Miller, Jr., as- 
sociate. 
Division of Birds: Herbert Friedmann, curator ; H. G. Deignan, associate 
curator; Alexander Wetmore, custodian of alcoholic and skeleton collec- 
tions ; ArthTU* C. Bent, collaborator. 
Division of Reptiles and Batrachians: Doris M. Cochran, associate curator. 
Division of Fishes: Leonard P. Schultz, curator; R. R. Miller, associate 

curator ; D. S. Erdman, scientific aid. 
Division of Insects: L. O. Howard, honorary curator; Edward A. Chapin, 
curator; R. E. Blackwelder, associate curator; W. E. Hoffmann, asso- 
ciate curator ; W. L. Jellison, collaborator. 

Section of Hymenoptera : S. A. Rohwer, custodian ; W. M. Mann, assist- 
ant custodian ; Robert A. Cushman, assistant custodian. 
Section of Myriapoda : O. F. Cook, custodian. 
Section of Diptera : Charles T. Greene, assistant custodian. 
Section of Coleoptera: L. L. Buchanan, specialist for Casey collection. 
Section of Lepidoptera : J. T. Barnes, collaborator. 
Section of Forest Tree Beetles : A. D. Hopkins, custodian. 
Division of Marine Inverteirates : F. A. Chace, Jr., curator; P. L. Illg, asso- 
ciate curator ; Frederick M. Bayer, assistant curator ; Mrs. Harriet Rich- 
ardson Searle, collaborator; Max M. Ellis, collaborator; J. Percy Moore, 
collaborator ; Joseph A. Cushman, collaborator in Foraminifera ; Mrs. 
M. S. Wilson, collaborator in copepod Crustacea. 
Di/vision of Mollusks: Harald A. Rehder, curator; Joseph P. E. Morrison, 
associate curator; R. Tucker Abbott, assistant curator; P. Bartsch, 
associate. 
Section of Helminthological Collections: Benjamin Schwartz, collabo- 
rator. 
Division of Echinoderms: Austin H. Clark, curator. 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY Vli 

Department of Biology — Continued 

Division of Plants {National Herbarium) : E. P. Killip, curator; Emery C. 
Leonard, associate curator ; CJourad V. Morton, associate curator ; Egbert 
H. Walker, associate curator ; John A. Stevenson, custodian of C. Q. Lloyd 
mycological collection ; Agnes Chase, research associate. 
Section of Grasses : J. R. Swallen, associate curator. 
Section of Cryptogamic Collections : O. F. Cook, assistant curator. 
Section of Higher Algae ; W. T. Swingle, custodian. 
Section of Lower Fungi : D. G. Fairchild, custodian. 
Section of Diatoms : Paul S. Conger, associate curator. 
Associates in Zoology: Theodore S. Palmer, William B. Marshall, A. G. 

Boving, W. K. Fisher, C. R. Shoemaker. 
Associates in Botany : Henri Pittier, F. A. McClure, W. R. Maxon. 
Collaborator in Zoology : Robert Sterling Clark. 
Collaborators in Biology : A. K. Fisher, David C. Graham. 
Department of Geology : 

R. S. Bassler, head curator ; J. H. Benn, exhibits preparator ; Jessie G. 
Beach, aid. 
Division of Mineralogy and Petrology: W. F. Foshag, curator; E. P. Hender- 
son, associate curator ; B. O. Reberholt, exhibits pi'eparator ; Frank L. Hess, 
custodian of rare metals and rare earths. 
Division of Invei'teirate Paleontology and Paleobotany: Gustav A. Cooper, 
curator ; A. R. Loeblich, Jr., associate curator ; J. Brookes Knight, research 
associate in Paleontology. 

Section of Invertebrate Palenotology : T, W. Stanton, custodian of 
Mesozoic collection ; J, B. Reeside, Jr., custodian of Mesozoic collection. 
Division of Vertebrate Paleontology: C. L. Gazin, curator; D. H. Dunkle, as- 
sociate curator ; Norman H. Boss, chief exhibits preparator ; A. C. Murray, 
scientific aid ; F. L. Pearce, preparator. 
Associates in Mineralogy : W. T. Schaller, S. H. Perry. 
Associate in Paleonotology : T. W. Vaughan. 
Associate in Petrology : Whitman Cross. 
Dep^vbtment of Engineering and Industries : 
Carl W. Mitman, head curator. 
Division of Engineering: Frank A. Taylor, curator; K. M. Perry, exhibits 
preparator. 

Section of Civil and Mechanical Engineering: Frank A. Taylor, in 

charge. 
Section of Marine Transportation : Frank A. Taylor, in charge. 
Section of Electricity : Frank A. Taylor, in charge. 
Section of Physical Sciences and Measurement: Frank A. Taylor, in 

charge. 
Section of Land Transportation : S. H. Oliver, associate curator. 
Division of Aeronautics: P. E. Garber, curator. 

Division of Crafts and Industries: W. N. Watkins, curator; F. C. Reed, 
associate curator ; E. A. Avery, museum aid ; F. L. Lewton, research 
associate. 

Section of Textiles: M. M. Windhorst, assistant curator. 
Section of Wood Technology : William N. Watkins, in charge. 
Section of Manufactures : F. C. Reed, in charge. 
Section of Agricultural Industries : F. C. Reed, in charge. 
Division of Medicine and Public Health: Charles Whitebread, curator. 
Division of Oraphic Arts: J. Kainen, curator ; E. J. Fite, museum aid. 
Section of Photography : A. J. Wedderburn, Jr., associate curator. 



viii ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947 

Division op History: T. T. Belote, curator; Charles Carey, associate curator; 
M. W. Brown, assistant curator ; J. Russell Sirlouis, scientific aid. 
Section of Civil History : T. T. Belote, in charge. 
Section of Military History : O. Carey, in charge. 
Section of Naval History : C. Carey, in charge. 
Section of Numismatics : T. T. Belote, in charge. 
Section of Philately : C. L. Manning, assistant curator. 

ADMINISTBATIVE STAFF 

Chief, office of correspondence and records. — H. S. Bryant. 

Superintendent of buildings and labor. — L. L. Oliver. 

Assistant superintendent of buildings and labor. — Charles C. Sinclair. 

Editor. — Paul H. Oehser. 

Accountant and auditor. — T. F. Clark. 

Photographer. — G. I. Hiqhtowee. 

Purchasing officer. — A. W. Wilding. 

Assistant librarian. — Elisabeth H. Gazin. 

NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART 
Trustees: 

Fred M. Vinson, Chief Justice of the United States, Chairman. 

George C. Marshall, Secretary of State. 

John W. Snyder, Secretary of the Treasury. 

Alexander Wetmore, Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution. 

Samuel H. Kress. 

Ferdinand Lammot Belin. 

Duncan Phillips. 

Chester Dalbx 

Paul Mellon. 
President. — Samuel H. Kress. 
Vice President. — Ferdinand Lammot Belin. 
Secretary-Treasurer. — Huntington Cairn s. 
Director. — David E. Finley. 
Administrator. — Harry A. McBride. 
General Counsel. — Huntington Cairns. 
Chief Curator. — John Walker. 
Assistant Director. — Macgill James. 

NATIONAL COLLECTION OF FINE ARTS 
Director. — Ruel P. Tolman ; G. J. Martin, exhibits preparator. 

FREER GALLERY OF ART 
Director. — A. G. Wenley. 
Assistant Director. — J. A. Pope. 
Research Associate. — Grace Dunham Guest. 
Associate in Near Eastern art. — Richard Ettinghausen. 

BUREAU OF AMERICAN ETHNOLOGY 

Chief. — Matthew W. Stirling. 

Associate Chief. — Frank H. H. Robebts, Jr. 

Senior ethnologists. — H. B. Collins, Jr., John P. Harrington, W. N. Fenton, 

Senior anthropologists. — G. R. Willet ; P. Druoker. 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY ix 

Collaborator. — John R. Swanton. 

Editor. — M. BLelen Palmeb, 

Librarian. — Miriam B. Ketchum. 

Illustrator. — Edwin G. Cassedt. 

Institute of Social Anthropology. — G. M. Foster, Jr., Director. 

River Basin Surveys. — Frank H. H. Roberts, Jr., Director in charge. 

INTERNATIONAL EXCHANGE SERVICE 

Acting Chief. — Harry W. Doksey. 
Chief Clerk. — D. G. Williams. 

NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK 

Director. — William M. Mann. 
Assistant Director. — Ernest P. Walkeb. 
Head Keeper. — Frank O. Lowe. 

ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY 

Director. — Loyal B. Aldrich. 

Division of Astrophysical Research : Loyal B. Aldrich, chief ; William H. 

Hoover, senior astrophysicist ; Charles G. Abbot, research associate. 
Division of Radiation and Organisms: Earl S. Johnston, chief; Leland B. 

Clai-k, engineer (precision instruments) ; Robert L. Weintraub, chemist 

(biological) ; Leonard Price, junior physicist (biophysics) ; G, D. Talbert, 

instrument maker. 

NATIONAL AIR MUSEUM 

Advisory Board: 

Alexander Wetmore, Chairman. 

Maj. Gen. E. M. Powers, U. S. Army Air Forces. 

Rear Adm. A. M. Pride, U. S. Navy. 

Grover Loening. 

William B. Stout. 

CANAL ZONE BIOLOGICAL AREA 
Resident Manager. — James Zetek. 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY OF THE 
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION 

ALEXANDER WETMORE 

FOR THE YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 1947 

To the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution: 

Gentlemen : I have the honor to submit herewith my report showing 
the activities and condition of the Smithsonian Institution and its 
bureaus during the fiscal year ended June 30, 1947. Appendixes 1 to 
12 give detailed reports of the operations of the National Museum, the 
National Gallery of Art, the National Collection of Fine Arts, the 
Freer Gallery of Art, the Bureau of American Ethnology, the Inter- 
national Exchanges, the National Zoological Park, the Astrophysical 
Observatory, the National Air Museum, the Canal Zone Biological 
Area, the Smithsonian library, and of the publications issued under 
the direction of the Institution. On page 162 is the financial report of 
the executive committee of the Board of Regents. 

The purpose of the Institution, as stated in the will of its founder, 
is "the increase and diffusion of knowledge among men." The in- 
crease of Icnowledge is accomplished by means of scientific research 
and exploration, the diffusion of knowledge by its several series of 
publications, its International Exchange Service, its museum and art 
gallery exhibits, and various other means. As the Institution oper- 
ates chiefly through the bureaus that have grown up around it as a 
result of its early work, the year's research and exploration will be 
found recorded in the reports of those bureaus, particularly the Na- 
tional Museum, the Bureau of American Ethnology, and the Astro- 
physical Observatory. A complete account of the year's publications 
appears in the report of the chief of the editorial division, appendix 12. 
The fiscal year here reported upon is the first in the Institution's 
second century of existence. At the beginning of a new era, it is 
gratifying to report that a large part of the normal research and field 
work that had to be suspended during the war is now being resumed 
and, in certain lines, expanded. This is the first annual account in 
which appear reports on the newly established National Air Museum 
and on the Canal Zone Biological Area, recently placed under the In- 
stitution's administration. The number of visitors to the National 
Museum, the Freer Gallery of Art, and the National Zoological Park 



2 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947 

is back to prewar levels, as is the number of accessions to the Museum 
collections. The International Exchange Service has made large 
inroads into the great accumulation of material for foreign exchange 
that built up during the war years, and the service will soon be again 
on a wholly current basis. 

The two greatest needs of the Institution as stated in my last report 
are for more personnel and more building space. New buildings must, 
of course, await more propitious economic conditions, but plans are 
already outlined and the future outlook is hopeful. Strong presenta- 
tions of the personnel shortage, particularly in scientific positions, are 
being made to the Bureau of the Budget and to Congress, with promise 
of relief in this direction also. 

THE ESTABLISHMENT 

The Smithsonian Institution was created by act of Congress in 1846, 
according to the terms of the will of James Smithson, of England, who 
in 1826 bequeathed his property to the United States of America "to 
found at Washington, under the name of the Smithsonian Institution, 
an establishment for the increase and diffusion of knowledge among 
men." In receiving the property and accepting the trust. Congress 
determined that the Federal Government was without authority to ad- 
minister the trust directly, and, therefore, constituted an "establish- 
ment" whose statutory members are "the President, the Vice President, 
the Chief Justice, and the heads of the executive departments." 

THE BOARD OF REGENTS 

During the year the following changes occurred in the personnel 
of the Board of Kegents : 

January 17, 1947 : Chief Justice Vinson was elected Chancellor of 
the Institution. 

January 27, 1947: Kepresentative John M. Vorys, of Ohio, was 
appointed to finish the unexpired term of Representative B. Carroll 
Reece. 

January 27, 1947: Representative Samuel K. McConnell, Jr., of 
Pennsylvania, was appointed to finish the unexpired term of Repre- 
sentative E. E. Cox. 

The roll of regents at the clo.se of the fiscal year June 30, 1947, was 
as follows : 

Chief Justice Fred M. Vinson, Chancellor ; members from the Senate, 
Alben W. Barkley, Wallace H. White, Jr., Walter F. George; mem- 
bers from the House of Representatives, Clarence Cannon, John M. 
Vorys, Samuel K. McConnell, Jr. ; citizen members, Frederic A. Delano, 
Washington, D. C, Harvey N. Davis, New Jersey, Arthur H. Comp- 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 3 

ton, Missouri, Vannevar Bush, Washington, D. C, and Frederic C. 
Walcott, Connecticut. 

Proceedings. — ^The Board of Regents held its annual meeting on 
January 17, 1947, with the following members present : Senator Walter 
F. George, Representative Clarence Cannon, Dr. Vannevar Bush, Dr. 
Arthur H. Conipton, Dr. Harvey N. Davis, Frederic A. Delano, the 
Secretary, Dr. Alexander Wetmore, and the Assistant Secretary, John 
E. Graf. 

The Secretary presented his annual report covering the activities 
of the parent institution and of its several branches, including the 
financial report of the Executive Conmaittee, for the fiscal year ended 
June 30, 1946, which was accepted by the Board. The usual resolution 
authorizing the expenditure by the Secretary of the income of the 
Institution for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1948, was adopted by 
the Board. 

The gift of Miss Annie-May Hegeman was mentioned last year 
as amounting in total to $300,000, being one-half the amount from 
the sale of the Porter property at the corner of Sixteenth and Eye 
Streets NW. The Library Trust Fund Board of the Library of Con- 
gress, which handled this matter, during the year forwarded a check 
for $275,000 on this account, approximately $25,000 being held tempo- 
rarily, pending settlement of claim for sales commission on the part 
of real- estate brokers. 

John A. Roebling made a generous gift to the Institution in further 
support of the work of the Astrophysical Observatory. 

On August 12, 1946, President Truman signed the act (Public Law 
722) establishing the National Air Museum under the Smithsonian 
Institution. Under this act there is set up an advisory board com- 
posed of the Commanding General of the Army Air Forces, the Chief 
of Naval Operations, the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, 
and two citizens appointed by the President. General Spaatz, Chief 
of the Army Air Forces, has designated Maj. Gen. Edward M. Powers 
to represent him; Admiral Nimitz, Chief of Naval Operations, desig- 
nated Rear Adm. H. B. Sallada ; and the President, early in December, 
appointed Grover Loening and William B. Stout, both well known for 
their work in aviation, as the citizen members of the board. Subse- 
quently, Admiral Nimitz assigned Rear Adm. Sallada to other duties 
and designated Rear Adm. A. M. Pride to represent him on the board. 

The first meeting of the Advisory Board was held December 16, 
1946, at which the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution was elected 
Chairman. Discussions covered the scope, probable size, and location 
of the Museum. It was the opinion that these could be determined 
only after a complete survey of material of value for the Museum. 
The Chairman was instructed to prepare estimates for the $50,000 



4 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947 

authorized by the act for a survey, this to cover the latter part of the 
fiscal year 1947, and the year 1948, and to include travel funds and 
necessary assistance. In view of the great growth in aviation the new 
agency is one of major importance for preservation of historical ma- 
terial in aeronautics, both for public display and for study and exam- 
ination by engineers and students of aerodynamics. 

Under Keorganization Plan No. 3 of 1946, which became effective 
July 16, 1946, the President placed under the direction of the Smith- 
sonian Institution the biological laboratory known as the Canal Zone 
Biological Area located in the Canal Zone, Panama. When Gatun 
Lake was formed during construction of the Panama Canal, the im- 
pounded waters flowed around hills that stood in the valley, changing 
certain of them to islands. One of these, which became known as 
Barro Colorado Island, was notable for its fine stand of primitive 
tropical forest, and for the animal life confined on it by the waters 
of the lake. On April 17, 1923, Gov. Jay J. Morrow of the Canal 
Zone set aside Barro Colorado Island as a reserve, and on it there was 
established a field laboratory at which investigators might live and 
work on scientific problems concerned with a tropical jungle. This 
laboratory has been supported by small contributions from various 
agencies, including Harvard College, the University of Michigan, the 
Smithsonian Institution, and various others. 

So much valuable scientific work came from this laboratory that the 
Congress set it aside permanently as a reserve under the name Canal 
Zone Biological Area, in an act effective July 2, 1940, as an independ- 
ent agency under a Board of Directors composed of the Secretaries of 
War, Agriculture, Interior, and the Smithsonian Institution, the 
President of the National Academy of Sciences, and three distin- 
guished biologists appointed by the President of the National Academy 
as Chairman of the Board. In the process of unification of govern- 
mental agencies, the Canal Zone Biological Area has now become a 
part of the Smithsonian, where it will be administered under the office 
of the Secretary. The reorganization plan abolished the former Board 
as the controlling body, but it has seemed desirable to continue this 
as an advisory board composed of representatives of the departments 
originally concerned, to secure desired support and cooperation for 
the activity. 

Barro Colorado Island has been the site of a wide variety of studies 
and tests under tropical conditions. Those under way at the present 
time include an extensive set-up for testing termite-proofing of wood 
samples, tropical deterioration of plywoods, textiles, and packaging 
containers, and the effect of fungi on optical glass. Biologists come 
regularly to the island to make studies of the fauna and flora. Some 
400 publications have been issued on research carried on here in the 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 5 

fields of entomology, forestry, and medicine, with special reference to 
the control of termites, fruit flies, and mosquitoes. 

The annual report of the Smithsonian Art Commission was pre- 
sented by the Secretary and accepted by the Board. The Commis- 
sion, at its meeting on December 6, 1946, accepted several works of 
art, including 23 miniatures. A resolution was adopted to reelect 
the following members for 4-year terms : John Taylor Arms, Gifford 
Beal, and Gilmore D, Clarke. Vacancies on the commission were 
caused by the resignations of Louis Ayres and Frank J. Mather. The 
names of William T. Aldrich and Lloyd Goodrich, recommended by 
the Commission, were approved to fill the above vacancies. The fol- 
lowing officers were reelected for the ensuing year: Chairman, Paul 
Manship ; Secretary, Alexander Wetmore. 

The bill that was introduced in the House of Kepresentatives (H. R. 
2015 and H. Res. 139, 78th Cong., 2d sess.) for the relief of the estate 
of John Gellatly and/or Charleyne Whiteley Gellatly, his widow, was 
referred by the House, mentioned above as House Resolution 139, to 
the Court of Claims to ascertain the facts and make recommendations. 
The Court of Claims in an opinion dated May 5, 1947, stated that "there 
is no basis in law or in equity to set aside the gift or transfer and no 
basis in law or equity to allow a recovery in behalf of the Gellatly 
estate." 

The Secretary brought to the attention of the Board the proposition 
to request the Civil Service Commission to extend the provisions of 
the Federal Classification Act to Smithsonian employees paid from 
trust funds. This proposal was approved by the Board under certain 
conditions. 

APPROPRIATIONS 

Funds appropriated to the Institution for the fiscal year ended 
June 30, 1947, totaled $1,632,912, allotted as follows : 

General administration $88, 366 

National Museum 530, 068 

Bureau of American Ethnology 76, 366 

Astrophysical Observatory 67, 596 

National Collection of Fine Arts 24, 264 

International Exchange Service 55, 632 

Maintenance and operation 632, 377 

Service divisions 154, 749 

Unobligated 3, 494 

Total 1, 632,912 

In addition, $883,920 was appropriated to the National Gallery of 
Art, a bureau of the Institution but administered by a separate board of 
trustees ; and $432,500 was provided in the District of Columbia ap- 
propriation bill for the operation of the National Zoological Park. 



6 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947 

Besides these direct appropriations, the Institution received funds 
by transfer from other Federal agencies, as follows : 

From the State Department, from the appropriation, Cooperation 
with the American Kepublics, 1947, a total of $139,589 for the follow- 
ing purposes : Operation of the Institute of Social Anthropology, in- 
cluding the issuance of publications resulting from its work ; publica- 
tion of a Spanish edition of Compendium and Description of the West 
Indies, by Antonio Vazquez de Espinosa; and assistance in the pub- 
lication of the Handbook of South American Indians. 

From the Navy Department, $12,920 for scientific work in the Bikini 
area in connection with Operation Crossroads. 

From the National Park Service, Interior Department, $91,500 for 
archeological projects in connection with River Basin Surveys. Of 
this total, $64,500 was originally transferred to the Park Service by 
the Bureau of Reclamation, and $37,000 by the Corps of Engineers, 
U. S. Army. 

SMITHSONIAN CENTENNIAL 

In my last annual report I reviewed rather fully the features that 
marked the Institution's one-hundredth anniversary on August 10, 
1946. These included a commemorative Smithsonian postage stamp ; 
an illustrated publication entitled "The First Hundred Years of the 
Smithsonian Institution"; a convocation and reception at the Insti- 
tution on October 23, 1946, to mark the occasion in a more formal 
manner ; a public statement released to the press by President Harry 
S. Truman, who is ex-officio Presiding Officer of the Institution ; and 
a Smithsonian Centennial issue of the journals. Science and The Scien- 
tific Monthly. In addition, many leading magazines and newspapers 
carried full accounts of the Institution's history and achievements, and 
this type of public notice of the Centennial continued well into the 
fiscal year 1947. 

It has been particularly gratifying to the officials of the Institution 
to receive on the occasion of the Centennial so many letters of con- 
gratulation from distinguished scientists and educators in this country 
and abroad. It is satisfying to feel that there is a general recognition 
of the Institution's earnest efforts to carry out its founder's stipula- 
tion for "the increase and diffusion of knowledge among men," and 
such recognition tends to stimulate greater zeal in furthering James 
Smithson's purpose. 

FINANCES 

A statement on finances, dealing particularly with Smithsonian 
private funds, will be found in the report of the executive committee 
of the Board of Regents, page 162. 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 7 

TRUST FUNDS' EMPLOYEES INCLUDED UNDER FEDERAL RETIREMENT 

SYSTEM 

For many years employees of the Institution have been divided into 
two categories: The first, and by far the larger group, consists of 
civil-service employees paid from Federal appropriations ; the second, 
now numbering some 35 employees, consists of employees paid wholly 
or in part from Smithsonian trust funds. The first group, of course, 
has been covered by the Federal Retirement System ; the second group 
had up to 1939 no provision whatever for retirement. On July 1, 
1939, the Smithsonian Retirement System was put into effect to pro- 
vide retirement benefits for those employees paid from trust funds, but 
the number of members was so small that the system was unable to 
offer anything like as liberal benefits as the Federal System as 
amended in 1942. 

During the fiscal year 1947, the Civil Service Commission took under 
advisement the inclusion of trust funds' employees under the Federal 
System, and pending a decision, the Board of Regents of the Institu- 
tion at its annual meeting on January 17, 1947, passed the following 
resolution : 

Resolved, That the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution do hereby 
consent to the officers and members of the Smithsonian Institution paid from 
trust funds accepting the benefits and privileges of the Federal Retirement Sys- 
tem, as well as assuming the obligations and duties legally applicable to them 
under that system as presently constituted ; Provided further. 

That the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution does not consent 
to the application of the Federal civil-service laws, nor the Federal Classification 
Act of 1923, as amended, to such officers and members paid from trust funds, nor 
to the application of any other laws which would in any way contravene the act 
of Establishment of the Smithsonian Institution approved on August 10, 1846, 
with amendments thereto. 

Resolved, That the Regents of the Smithsonian Institution, if and when officers 
and members of the Smithsonian Institution paid from trust funds are placed 
under the Federal Retirement System, approve in principle the use of the funds 
now held in the Smithsonian Retirement Fund for the benefit of the employees in 
question, to secure for said employees the maximum protection under the Federal 
Retirement Act to which their length of service in the Smithsonian Institution, 
respectively, entitles them; and that the Secretary be authorized to work out 
the necessary plans to carry this into effect, with the approval of the executive 
committee, to which is given full power to act in this matter. 

A decision was reached by the Commission on May 16, and on May 
22 I sent the following memorandum to the members of the Smith- 
sonian Retirement System : 

The Civil Service Commission has decided under date of May 16, 1947, that 
Smithsonian employees paid from trust funds of the Institution are eligible for 
inclusion under the Federal Retirement System. In accordance with the ap- 
proval of the Board of Regents, the Smithsonian Retirement System is therefore 
abolished, effective at the close of business May 17, 1947, except insofar as it 

777488 — 48 2 



8 



ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947 



affects payments to members in annuity status on that date, which payments 
will be continued by the Institution as provided by the Smithsonian Retirement 
System. 

Beginning May 18, 1947, retirement deductions from the pay of the Smith- 
sonian employees in question will be made at tlie rate of 5 percent (the rate of 
the Federal Retirement System) instead of 3.5 percent (the rate of the former 
Smithsonian Retirement System). 

Adjustment for back time on behalf of the individual members of the Smith- 
sonian Retirement System will be determined with the approval of the executive 
committee, as provided by resolution adopted by the Board of Regents on January 
17, 1947. 

On June 30, the last day of the fiscal year 1947, 1 submitted to the 
executive committee of the Board of Regents a detailed recommenda- 
tion regarding the conversion to the Federal Retirement System, so 
that final action on adjustment for previous service will be deferred 
until the next fiscal year. However, all employees of the Institution 
are now on the same footing as to retirement benefits, thus remedying 
a situation of long standing. 

VISITORS 

An increase of 237,784 visitors to the Smithsonian buildings was 
recorded over the previous year, the totals being 2,353,377 for 1947 
and 2,115,593 for 1946. August 1946 was the month of largest at- 
tendance, with 318,325 visitors; April 1947, the second largest with 
298,724. A summary of attendance records is given in table 1 : 



Table 1. — Visitors to the Smithsonian buildings during the year ended June SO, 1947 



19i6 
July 

August 

September. 

October 

November 

December 

1947 

January 

February 

March... 

April 

May 

June 

Total 



Smithson- 
ian Bldg. 



51, 956 
62,254 
45, 152 
32, 052 
28,538 
20,292 



18, 492 
16,285 
20,037 
65,236 
42, 372 
47,292 



439, 957 



Arts and 

Industries 

Bldg. 



118,106 
137, 857 
93, 356 
63,843 
58, 667 
34, 640 



34, 019 
33,240 
47,114 
127, 665 
111,480 
116, 179 



976, 166 



Natural 

History 

Bldg. 



64,553 
81, 674 
65, 256 
49, 016 
42,804 
28,335 



34, 553 
28,329 
37, 797 
76,488 
68,480 
70,632 



1 637, 917 



Aircraft 
Bldg. 



21, 964 
24,005 
18,525 
13,428 
13, 054 
8,331 



8,919 
7,876 
11,336 
23,541 
19, 318 
21,803 



192, 100 



Freer 
Gallery 
of Art 



10,504 
12,535 
9,339 
8,939 
7,961 
6,865 



4,121 
4,053 
7,003 
15, 794 
11,625 



107, 237 



Total 



267, 082 
318,325 
221, 628 
167,278 
151,024 
97,463 



100, 104 
89,783 
123,287 
298, 724 
253, 275 
265, 404 



2, 353, 377 



1 Not including 13,943 persons attending meetings after 4:30 p. m. 

PHOTOGRAPHIC LABORATORY 



In connection with the research and exploration of the Institution, 
there is involved a large amount of photographic work which is han- 
dled for the Institution and its branches by the Photographic Labora- 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 9 

tory, located in the Arts and Industries Building of the National 
Museum. To show the quantity of work produced I will give a few 
statistics : Negatives made, 2,449 ; prints, 14,521 ; enlargements, 2,082 ; 
lantern slides, 264 ; cloth mounts, 174 ; also a smaller number of other 
types of work involving photographic processes. 

In addition to the routine operations of the laboratory, the staff 
spent considerable time in assisting scientists of the Institution in ob- 
taining photographic illustrations for their publications, as weU as in 
aiding representatives of other governmental agencies and private 
individuals in their search for needed photographs. 

The photographer in charge served as the Institution's representa- 
tive on the photograph supplies committee. Federal Specifications 
Board. He attended monthly board meetings and conducted special 
investigations for various subcommittees of the Board. While rep- 
resenting the Institution at the annual convention of the Photogra- 
phers' Association of America in Chicago, the photographer in charge 
visited the Chicago Natural History Museum in the search for im- 
proved methods of photographing art objects, silverware, and glass- 
ware. 

The greatest needs of the laboratory are a complete catalog of file 
prints, so that the large and valuable collection of negatives would be 
more readily accessible to the Institution's staff as well as to the gen- 
eral public ; certain items of modern photographic equipment ; and the 
fitting up of a room to be devoted to color photography. 

BUILDINGS AND EQUIPMENT 

Repairs and alterations. — Among important projects in comiection 
with the several buildings, the following were completed during the 
year: 

Smithsonian Building : The metal finials on top of the northeast and 
southeast towers were removed and new copper finials were installed ; 
removal of the wooden louvres on four sides of the flag tower (begun 
in 1946) was completed and new copper louvres were installed in their 
place; the rooms formerly occupied by the property clerk were dis- 
mantled and converted into additional space for the accounting office. 

Arts and Industries Building : Provision was made for office rooms 
for the National Air Museum by partitioning off room 30, formerly 
occupied by the division of engineering ; major alterations and repairs 
were made in the southwest and west south ranges to provide exhibit 
areas for the section of manufactures and the section of aeronautics 
(now the National Air Museum) ; a photographic dark room was con- 
structed in the section of photography ; the coin hall ceiling and walls 
were repaired and repainted and all exhibit cases were revarnished. 



10 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947 

Natural History Building: All alcoves in the foyer, where all 
special exhibitions are held, were re-covered with monks cloth and 
all exposed woodwork repainted; to provide storage and working 
space for the coral collection, a section of the second floor at the 
northwest corner was remodeled, including changing partition walls, 
erection of a gallery, and painting of walls, ceiling, and storage 
cases. 

Freer Gallery of Art: The photographic studio and dark room 
were constructed by remodeling a section of one of the existing stor- 
age rooms. 

Heat^ lights and power. — Electric current used during the year 
amounted to 1,664,710 kilowatt-hours. This figure represents an 
increase of 120,571 kilowatt-hours over 1946 despite the "brown- 
out" during the period November 23 to December 9, 1946, for the 
purpose of conserving coal during the miners' strike. However, 
this increase is not considered excessive because additional fixtures 
were added and other improvements were made during the year. 

Steam consumption was held to the absolute minimum require- 
ments during the year, and despite the fact that heating temperatures 
were reduced 5° twice each day during the period November 23 to 
December 9, 1946, steam consumption increased 1,502,900 pounds 
over 1946. This increase was due to lower outside temperatures dur- 
ing the heating season. Total steam consumption for the fiscal year 
was 54,902,700 pounds. 

Ice production. — The Smithsonian ice plant produced 186.7 tons 
of ice at a cost of $1.16 per ton, exclusive of labor. The plant was 
closed down 10 days during May 1947 for overhauling. 

Fire protection. — The fire hose, couplings, nozzles, and hose racks 
purchased during fiscal year 1946 were received and installed in the 
Smithsonian Building. Plans have been made to install a central 
control station for valving the standpipe lines in this building dur- 
ing the fiscal year 1948. Inspections of apparatus were made each 
month, and all soda and acid extinguishers were discharged and 
recharged. 

Respectfully submitted. 

A. Wetmore, Secretary. 



APPENDIX 1 

KEPORT ON THE UNITED STATES NATIONAL LrUSEUM 

Sir : I have the honor to submit the following report on the condition 
and operation of the United States National Museum for the fiscal 
year ended June 30, 1947. 

COLLECTIONS 

Nearly 757,000 specimens, about twice as many as last year, came to 
the Museum's collections during the year, these being divided among 
the various departments as follows: Anthropology, 9,445; biology, 
533,098 ; geology, 205,549 ; engineering and industries, 5,239 ; history, 
3,539. Most of the accessions were acquired as gifts from individuals 
or as transfers from Government departments and agencies. The 
complete report on the Museum, published as a separate document, 
includes a detailed list of the year's acquisitions, of which the more im- 
portant are summarized below. Catalog entries in all departments 
now total 19,561,872. 

Anthropology. — Archeological material came from many parts of 
the world, especially noteworthy being about a hundred items from 
Adak Island in the Aleutians; nearly 1,600 specimens from Mont- 
gomery County, Md. ; a tripod bowl from a ruin near Oaxaca, Mexico ; 
2 earthenware bowls from the Taino site of La Caleto, Province of 
Trujillo, Dominican Republic; 2 Roman or Franko vessels from 
Speicher, Germany; and 14 stone implements and fragments from 
Larimer County, Colo. 

In ethnology, the year's accessions included collections from the 
North American tribes of Alaska and the Aleutians, Eastern Wood- 
lands, Great Plains, and the Southwest; the Indian tribes of Mexico, 
Panama, Venezuela, Colombia, Bolivia, and Brazil; the Oceanian 
peoples of Hawaii and New Guinea ; the aboriginal tribes of Australia ; 
the Indonesians of Java, Sumatra, and Bali; the Asiatic peoples of 
India and Mongolia ; and the African tribes of the Belgian Congo and 
neighboring parts of West Africa. A collection of major importance 
was received as a result of the bequest of the late Princess Abigail W. 
Kawananakoa of Honolulu, comprising a well-documented group of 
masterpieces of Hawaiian handicrafts which were heirlooms of the 
Hawaiian royal family. A valuable collection of American historical 
Staffordshire china was received from an anonymous donor. 

11 



12 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947 

The most unusual accession in physical anthropology consisted of 
unpublished anthropometric and other data collected by German 
anthropologists in Poland during World War II, together with some 
of their anthropological measuring instruments. The data had been 
assembled for the Institut fiir Deutsche Ostarbeit and were trans- 
ferred to the National Museum as a permanent loan by the War De- 
partment. The material includes information on 356 Ukrainians, 
1,466 Poles, and 162 Huzuls, with full measurements, photographs, 
and personal, medical, and family histories of each subject. 

Biology. — The most important mammalian accession was a series of 
about 600 glass slides of sectioned hairs, collected and presented by 
Dr. Ned Dearborn, expert on fur-bearing animals, who has made a 
special study of mammalian hair. The W. L. Abbott fund made 
possible three noteworthy avian accessions : 1,758 skins and skeletons 
of birds from Colombia, collected by M. A. Carriker, Jr. ; 453 bird 
skins and 7 skeletons of Panama birds, collected by Dr. A. Wetmore 
and W. M. Perrygo ; and 556 birds from India, collected by Salim Ali. 
Also from India came 1,500 bird skins resulting from the Smithsonian 
Institution- Yale University Expedition, containing many forms new 
to the Museum. Foremost among the year's herpetological acquisi- 
tions were 25 rare Brazilian frogs, 112 reptiles from Bikini, and 5 
series of reptiles and amphibians from Colombia, Bolivia, Haiti, and 
Guatemala. 

Two large and outstanding collections of fishes were received as a 
result of the Smithsonian's participation in two federally sponsored 
projects — about 38,700 fishes (representing over 300 species) taken 
during Operation Crossroads at Bikini and in the northern Marshall 
Islands by Dr. Leonard P. Schultz and Capt. Earl S. Herald, and 
28,000 Guatemalan fishes obtained by Associate Curator Robert R. 
Miller in continuation of the survey of the fishery resources of Guate- 
mala begun last year under the auspices of the Guatemalan Govern- 
ment, the United States Fish and Wildlife Service, and the Smith- 
sonian Institution. The Pacific material, because of its extent, will 
make it possible for the first time to make a study of anatomical varia- 
tions among the various island fish populations, while the Guatemalan 
material is one of the best collections of fresh-water fishes ever made 
in Central America. In addition, smaller but important lots of fishes 
came from Argentina, Baja California, Cuba, and the Tropical Pacific. 

About 12,000 insects, in three accessions, came to the Museum as a 
direct result of the war : 1,500 from the Philippines and New Guinea, 
collected by Carl O. Mohr; 4,500 from the Philippines, collected by 
Dr. Frank M. Young; and 6,000 mosquitoes, resulting from the in- 
vestigations in the South Pacific by the Naval Medical Research Unit 
No. 2. Another large insect accession was the gift of the H. G. Bar- 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 13 

ber collection of Hemiptera, amounting to 35,000 specimens and in- 
cluding some types and paratypes. Other important entomological 
material included over 2,500 insects from Colombia, collected by 
Curator E. A. Chapin in 1946; about 2,000 insects collected by Dr. 
J. P. E. Morrison as a part of Operation Crossroads biological investi- 
gations; nearly 400 aquatic insects collected in Guatemala by Dr. 
Robert R. Miller ; about 16,000 specimens of Mexican and Canal Zone 
insects collected by N. L. H. Krauss ; and 65,000 specimens transferred 
from the United States Department of Agriculture. 

A great variety of marine invertebrates was received but the largest 
accession in this division was the gift of the Horton H. Hobbs private 
collection of crayfishes. Comprising about 11,000 specimens, it is by 
far the most important series of these crustaceans ever collected from 
the southeastern United States. The Operation Crossroads investi- 
gations yielded over 8,000 miscellaneous marine invertebrates from 
the Marshall Islands. A desirable personal collection of nearly 
3,000 worms and crustaceans from various localities came as a gift 
from the collector, Leslie Hubricht. The type collection of Foram- 
inifera was increased by 706 slides, bringing the total in this col- 
lection to 10,640 slides. In the division of mollusks the largest and 
most important of the year's accessions comprised about 200,000 speci- 
mens collected by Associate Curator Morrison in the biological recon- 
naissance of the Marshall Islands in connection with Operation Cross- 
roads. The Naval Medical Research Unit No. 2 turned over to the 
Museum 25,000 specimens, mainly of land and fresh-water mollusks, 
from China, the Philippines, and the Marianas. Dr. A. R. Loeblich, 
Jr., now a member of the staff of the department of geology, donated 
1,200 marine shells from Okinawa. 

Accessions in the division of plants (including diatoms) aggregated 
nearly 44,000 specimens, from many parts of the world. About 4,800 
plants came as a result of Associate Curator Morton's botanical field 
work in St. Vincent, Lesser Antilles, a region heretofore but scantily 
represented in the National Herbarium. In transfers from the United 
States Department of Agriculture, the Museum received 5,500 grasses 
from Brazil, collected by Jason R. Swallen, and 1,500 specimens of 
bamboos, collected by Dr. F. A. McClure. Several other large lots 
came from South America, the West Indies, Japan and Formosa, 
the South Pacific, and several parts of North America. 

Geology. — The department of geology received about 4l^ times as 
many specimens as last year, this increase being due largely to a great 
influx of invertebrate fossils to the number of about 200,000. 

Additions in mineralogy and petrology were somewhat fewer than 
usual, though gifts, exchanges, and purchases brought some fine new 
minerals, gems, and meteorites to the collections. Twenty-one meteor- 



14 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947 

ites not previously represented in the Museum were received during 
the year. Forty-four mineral specimens were purchased through the 
Canfield fund. 

Collecting trips by Dr. G. A. Cooper and Dr. A. R. Loeblich, Jr., 
yielded over 36,000 Paleozoic fossils for the invertebrate collections. 
Several gifts received were important in helping to fill the study series 
in invertebrate paleontology and paleobotany. Among these were 85 
Mississippian ammonoids from Arkansas, numerous Lower Permian 
specimens from New Mexico, extensive collections of Middle Devonian 
invertebrates, excellent Eocene echinoids from Florida, 120 blocks of 
Cambrian and Ordovician limestone with choice silicified brachiopods 
from the Arbuckle Mountains, 275 Tertiary fossils from Florida, ex- 
tensive sets of Paleozoic and Cretaceous inverterbrates, including many 
micro-organisms and bryozoans, 375 specimens of unusual Cambrian 
and Lower Ordovician fossils from Quebec, 4,000 Upper Devonian 
fossils from New Mexico, and 2,000 Paleozoic invertebrates from 
Virginia, and a similar collection from Georgia. 

Resumption of field work following the war also brought increased 
material to the division of vertebrate paleontology. Outstanding was 
the discovery in one block in the Bridger Eocene beds of the skulls 
and portions of the skeletons of two unusually large rodents of the 
genus Paramys. Among other rarities in the season's finds were jaws 
and skeletal parts of the artiodactyl Helohyus^ about five examples of 
the minute insectivore N^yctitheriimi^ and remains of the marsupial 
Peratheriwm. Other additions to the Bridger collections made by 
Dr. C. L. Gazin were skulls of the large six-horned mammal Uinta- 
therium, the titanothere Palaeosyo'ps^ and the rhinoceros Hyrachyus. 
Among the materials transferred from the United States Geological 
Survey was a nearly complete skull and jaws of a Triassic reptile, a 
phytosaur, from the Petrified Forest of Arizona. 

Engineering and industries. — In the division of engineering an out- 
standing accession was the motor tricycle designed and built at Pitts- 
burgh in 1897 by Louis S. Clarke, automobile pioneer, and claimed 
to be the first Autocar. Several ship models received enhanced the 
watercraft collection. Two accessions in the field of microscopy are 
of unusual interest : The curious ruling machine with which Charles 
Fasoldt, in the mid-nineteenth century, produced the ruled slides and 
gratings prized over all others by many well-known microscopists ; 
and a group of microscopes and accessories collected by the late Dr. 
Richard Halsted Ward, first president or the American Microscopical 
Society, and his son, the late Dr. Henry Baldwin Ward, parasitologist. 

A historically important accession in the division of crafts and 
industries was one of the two original rubber masticators developed 
by Thomas Hancock in England prior to 1830. The machine was in 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 15 

continual use in rubber manufacture in England for more than 75 
years. To the section of textiles there came many outstanding ex- 
amples of new fabrics and fabric application and an exhibit showing 
the manufacture and uses of nylon. In wood technology 964 exotic 
woods were received as an exchange from the Forest Products Research 
Laboratory of Great Britain, most of them heretofore unrepresented 
in the section's collections. In addition, 182 wood specimens were 
received from the New York State College of Forestry and 561 photo- 
micrographic prints of sections of Japanese woods from the War 
Department. 

In the division of graphic arts the most notable accession of the year 
was a microengraving machine capable of engraving the Lord's Prayer 
781,250 times within a square-inch area. This miraculous contrivance 
was constructed by the Rev. J. C. Crawford after the original machine 
invented by W. Peters in London in 1852. Outstanding pieces of 
motion-picture equipment received included a 60-mm. camera invented 
in 1893 by George Demeny of France and manufactured by the Gau- 
mont Co. around 1896; a 16-mm. Bell & Howell gun-type camera 
adopted and used by the Navy to photograph the earth from a German 
V-2 rocket fired at the Army Ordnance Proving Grounds, White 
Sands, N. Mex., October 10, 1946 ; and a 1911 Pathe Freres 35-mm. 
hand-operated projector. Sixty glass negatives taken in the late nine- 
teenth century by the photographer Robert Stead and 143 lantern 
slides taken by the photographer Titus B. Snoddy, Sr., came as gifts 
to the Museum. Five more etched copper plates were added to the 
Charles W. Dahlgreen group for printing under the Dahlgreen fund. 

Several interesting and desirable additions were received for the 
division of medicine and public health, the most valuable one of the 
year being a series of specially prepared transparencies illustrating the 
subject of hospitalization. These were made and contributed by the 
American Hospital Association as a memorial to the late Dr. S. S. 
Gold water ( 1 873-1942 ) . Historically important is a "Grosse Flamme" 
X-ray machine with tube and tube stand, one of the earliest American- 
made machines of its kind. 

A number of desiderata found their way to the aeronautical collec- 
tions, the most outstanding in point of historic importance being the 
collection of parts remaining of original gliders devised by John J. 
Montgomery between 1905 and 1911. From the standpoint of rela- 
tionship to air warfare and particularly the devastating effect of 
bombing as practiced in World War II, the Norden bombsight used 
in directing the first atomic bomb dropped over Japan constitutes an 
important accession. A series of 82 interesting scale-model World 
War II airplanes were transferred from the Navy Department. Three 
other aircraft models received were of an XFL-1 Bell "Airabonita" 



16 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947 

made by Leroy MeCallum, an F-6-F Grumman "Hellcat" made in the 
Navy Department, and a rotary-winged craft named "Hiller-copter" 
made by Stanley Hiller, Jr. 

History. — Several interesting additions made to the costumes col- 
lection include a waistcoat and knee breeches of mauve satin and a dark 
blue and white silk waistcoat worn by Simon Serre in Cette, France, 
as a page boy about the mid-eighteenth century; a child's dress and 
pair of shoes of about 1850 ; a black silk dress of about 1860, a trousseau 
of 1875; and a white satin dress worn in the White House by Mrs. 
John Quincy Adams during her husband's administration as Presi- 
dent. Added to the military collections were early nineteenth-century 
chapeaux, epaulets, sash, coat, and trousers; a United States Marine 
Corps officer's sword of the early part of the present century ; and two 
Chinese scrolls that had been presented to Gen, James H. Doolittle in 
commemoration of the American air raid on Tokyo in 1942. From 
the White House there was transferred a historic passenger elevator in- 
stalled in 1902. The numismatic collection was increased by 30 speci- 
mens of 1946 United States bronze, nickel, and silver coins and by 400 
pieces of German paper currency of the World War I period. About 
3,000 stamps were added to the philatelic collection, about 1,300 more 
than last year. Of particular interest was a sheet of 50 3-cent Smith- 
sonian Centennial commemoratives, formally presented to the Institu- 
tion by the Post Office Department at a special ceremony on August 10, 
1946. 

EXFLORATION AND FIELD WORK 

One of the most encouraging phases of the Museum's work during 
the year was an opportunity to resume field work, interrupted by the 
war. 

Under a grant from Ernest N. May, it was possible for the curator 
of ethnology, Herbert W. Krieger, to renew investigations of fifteenth- 
century historic Indian village sites and some of the early Spanish set- 
tlements in the West Indies. This Caribbean program developed from 
an earlier Antillean project sponsored by the late Dr. W. L. Abbott 
which began in 1928 and was terminated in 1938. Dr. Abbott's inter- 
est was aroused by the earlier discoveries there by W. H. Gabb in 
1869-71 of kitchen middens containing deposits of animal bones and 
aboriginal pottery fragments. While engaged in the development of 
the ensuing Smithsonian project for the excavation of these cave 
middens and of other former Indian village sites in the Greater An- 
tilles and in the Bahamas, the need became apparent to the curator 
for a chronological culture-trait analysis and for a more complete ori- 
entation as to the location of historic Indian village sites, and also 
for a study of Spanish settlements associated with the early colonial 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 17 

period of the area. The cooperation of scientists and the governments 
of the Bahama Islands, Haiti, Cuba, and the Dominican Republic was 
readily obtained in the carrying out of the details of the project. From 
January 16 to May 5, 1947, Mr. Krieger visited and made test excava- 
tions at Indian village sites referred to by Christopher Columbus in 
the journal of his first voyage of discovery. Mr. Krieger also exam- 
ined the probable site of the first Spanish settlement, that of the sailors 
of the wrecked Santa Maria at La Navidad near the town of Cap 
Haitien on the north coast of Haiti. He later revisited La Isabela, 
the first planned Spanish colony in the Western Hemisphere. The 
ruins of the stone buildings of the town are still visible although 
most of the stone walls of the large warehouse, church, fort, and other 
buildings have been removed to the city of Puerto Plata, where they 
have been used in the construction of modern buildings. 

During the first 2 weeks of August 1946 Mr. Kj:ieger attended, as a 
delegate of the Smithsonian Institution, the First International Con- 
ference of Archeologists of the Caribbean, which was convened under 
the auspices of the Government of the Republic of Honduras. The 
plenary sessions of the conference were held at the capital city of 
Tegucigalpa, but as the work progressed meetings were held most 
pleasantly under towering trees at the ruins of the eighth-century 
Maya city of Copan, on the stone seats of the south section of the 
Court of the Hieroglyphic Stairway. Ample facilities were provided 
by the Honduras Government for the attending delegates, 60 in num- 
ber, representing 14 American Republics and 36 educational and scien- 
tific institutions. Visits were made by airplane to widely separated 
sites where the prolific remains of Maya and other aboriginal cultures 
are still visible in the form of pyramids, mounds, and ruins of aban- 
doned Indian villages in the upland valleys of western Honduras. 

The late Dr. Ales Hrdlicka, formerly curator of physical anthro- 
pology, had planned to visit Guatemala in December of 1943 to take 
measurements and observations on the Highland Maya, but he died 
in September of that year. Dr. T. Dale Stewart finally undertook 
this work during the first 3 months of 1947 under a grant from the 
Department of State and in cooperation with scientists from Guate- 
mala and the Carnegie Institution of Washington. In addition to 
studying the living, Dr. Stewart examined also the available prehis- 
toric skeletal remains, especially those recovered from the archeo- 
logical sites known as San Agustin Acasaguastlan, Kaminaljuyu, and 
Zaculeu. 

The main objective of Dr. Stewart's trip was to obtain information 
about the living Highland Maya which would enable him to make 
comparisons with the Lowland Maya of Yucatan. These two groups, 
although rather widely separated geographically and exhibiting dif- 



18 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947 

f erences in material culture, nevertheless belong to the same linguistic 
stock. This linguistic stock, moreover, is remarkably homogeneous. 
Since language is fairly resistant to change (more so than material 
culture), considerable interest attaches to the question whether this 
linguistic homogeneity reflects a similar status in physical type. 

Dr. Stewart undertook the collection of data that would supplement 
those already available and at the same time allow their fuller inter- 
pretation. Since in Guatemala the municipio, being endogamous, is 
the basic unit for ethnic study, he restricted his study to two municipios 
within the Cakchiquel linguistic subgroup. First at Solola in the De- 
partment of Solola, then later at Patzun in the Department of Chimal- 
tenango, he secured comparable series of males — 82 to 72, respec- 
tively — and at Patzun, a series of 35 females. Altogether this is the 
largest series from one highland linguistic group thus far studied. 
In addition to the routine anthropometric measurements, observa- 
tions, and photographs, the records obtained this season include blood 
group (A, B; M, N), taste sensitivity to phenyl thiocarbamide, palm 
and finger prints, and hair samples. In view of the success of this 
first season, it is hoped that the experience thus gained can be utilized 
for the extension of these observations elsewhere. It is important, for 
example, to learn also to what extent in the highlands the barrier of 
language is an aid in the formation of physical types. Furthermore, 
if the records are made by one observer, they will be more uniform and 
less subject to multiple personal biases. 

Upon his return from Guatemala Dr. Stewart was detailed to stop 
over in Mexico City in order to examine the recently recovered skeleton 
of Tepexpan man. This important skeleton, found in what is consid- 
ered by paleontologists as a Pleistocene stratum, may represent one of 
the most complete skeletons dating from this early period in North 
America. Subsequent to his visit the entire skeleton has been brought 
to the United States National Museum by Senor Javier Romero, who 
is to work with Dr. Stewart in the restoration and reconstruction of the 
skeletal parts. At the close of the fiscal year some progress has been 
made in the restoration of the facial bones. 

Dr. Waldo R. Wedel, associate curator of archeology, was on detail 
to the River Basin Surveys and in charge of the Missouri River Basin 
Survey from July 8 to October 18, 1946. He left Washington May 20, 
1947, to resume this work. Joseph R. Caldwell, scientific aid, like- 
wise was detailed to the River Basin Surveys from November 12, 1946, 
to April 1, 1947. (See appendix 5 for details.) 

Members of the staff of the department of biology participated in 
several important expeditions and a number of smaller field trips, all 
of which returned valuable material to the collections. From other 
expeditions in which the Museum personnel did not take part but 
which were financed by the Smithsonian Institution or private con- 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 19 

tributors, many additional specimens were received. Foremost among 
the expeditions was Operation Crossroads under the auspices of the 
United States Navy to the northern Marshall Islands and Bikini. 
Taking part in the biological investigations of this operation and rep- 
resenting the Smithsonian Institution were Drs. Leonard P. Schultz 
and J. P. E. Morrison, curator of fishes and associate curator of mol- 
lusks, respectively, and Capt. Earl S. Herald, whose detail the Navy 
requested from the Army to relieve Dr. Schultz. Dr. Schultz re- 
turned to Washington by plane on July 22, having left Washington on 
the preceding February 13. Captain Herald returned to Washington 
in mid-September. As ichthyologists, Dr. Schultz and Captain Herald 
were especially concerned with the relative abundance of fishes on the 
reefs and in the tidal zone before and after dropping the experimental 
atomic bombs. In connection with the investigation they preserved 
over 38,000 specimens for study and for the national collections. Dr. 
Morrison, who left Washington on February 20 and returned August 
25, gave his attention to both the vertebrate and invertebrate animal 
life of the area, excepting the fish. He obtained specimens and data 
concerning the arboreal, terrestrial, and intertidal animal communi- 
ties and populations. Particularly complete was the series of birds 
frequenting Bikini and the collections of mollusks of this and other of 
the Marshall Islands group. On June 28, 1947, 2 days before the close 
of the fiscal year, Drs. Schultz and Morrison accompanied by Frederick 
M. Bayer, assistant curator of marine invertebrates, started on a re- 
turn trip to Bikini for a resurvey of the faunal elements of the area 
with which they were particularly concerned. 

In continuation of the survey of the fishery resources of Guatemala 
begun last year under the joint auspices of the Guatemalan Govern- 
ment, the United States Fish and Wildlife Service, and the Smith- 
sonian Institution, Dr. Robert R. Miller, associate curator of fishes, 
spent some 10 weeks, March 7 to May 17, in Guatemala. Extensive 
series of fish and associated animal life were obtained, the fish collected 
to form the basis of an account of the fishes of that country. 

On March 15, 1947, C. V. Morton, associate curator of plants, left 
for a 12-week trip to St. Vincent, British West Indies, on a botanical 
survey of that island with funds generously provided by Ernest May, 
of Wilmington, Del. Although St. Vincent has an interesting flora, 
it has been relatively neglected by collectors. Owing to the moun- 
tainous terrain, there is still a great deal of untouched forested land 
which provided ideal conditions for plant collecting. Mr. Morton 
obtained 4,800 specimens on which he plans to base a checklist of the 
flowering plants and ferns of the island. 

The W. L. Abbott fund financed three different field parties during 
the past year : M. A. Carriker, Jr., continuing field work in Colombia, 
working for half the year in areas complementary to those already 



20 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947 

covered previously, obtaining 1,758 bird skins; Salim Ali of Bombay 
collecting birds in Gujerat and other areas in India, supplementing 
the work of the Smithsonian-Yale University Expedition to India 
and obtaining 556 birds; and Dr. A. Wetmore and W. M. Perrygo 
making a rather short trip to the interior of Darien, Panama, and 
returning with 453 bird skins, beautifully supplementing collections 
made last year by the same collectors in adjacent areas. 

The Smithsonian Institution-Yale University Expedition to India 
under the direction of S. Dillon Ripley, assisted by E. C. Migdalski, 
spent 6 months in various parts of India and in Nepal and made a 
collection of approximately 1,500 birds, which added very signifi- 
cantly to the Museum's resources in the Asiatic field and will be of 
great scientific value as much of it comes from old classical type locali- 
ties. 

Foster D. Smith, of the Socony Oil Co., Caracas, Venezuela, returned 
to Venezuela early in the fiscal year and will again collect birds for 
the Museum as time and opportunity allow ; no reports regarding his 
present efforts have yet been received. 

Locally, in connection with a biological survey of the Patuxent Re- 
search Refuge maintained by the Fish and Wildlife Service, Emery 
C. Leonard, associate curator of plants, carried on field work on the 
lower cryptogams, spending 6 days on the project and collecting about 
800 specimens. This work will be continued during the coming year, 
the collections to serve as a basis for a report on the cryptogamic flora 
of the refuge. During August 1946, Drs. Remington Kellogg and 
David H. Johnson, the curator and the associate curator, division of 
mammals, collected fossil cetacean material from the Miocene beds at 
Scientists' Cliffs, Calvert County, Md. Paul S. Conger, associate cura- 
tor, section of diatoms, spent 2 months at the Chesapeake Biological 
Laboratory, Solomons, Md., continuing a survey of the Chesapeake Bay 
diatoms, certain experiments on the growth of single diatoms under 
natural conditions, and a study of diatoms as oyster food. In order 
to secure material for the rearing of Hemiptera for the purpose of trac- 
ing the development of structures useful in taxonomy and in the deter- 
mination of phylogenetic relationships, W. E. Hoffmann, associate cur- 
ator, division of insects, carried on considerable field work in and about 
the city of Washington. 

The first field expedition of the year in the division of invertebrate 
paleontology and paleobotany was carried on by Curator G. A. Cooper, 
during the three summer months, in company with Dr. P. E. Cloud, 
Jr., of Harvard University. Several days at Batesville, Ark., yielded 
excellent Silurian and Mississippian fossils. After a short time at 
Muskogee, Okla., collecting Mississippian fossils, the party journeyed 
to Marathon, Tex., where some 10 days were spent in getting out blocks 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 21 

for etching of Permian limestone from the Glass Mountains. Next, at 
Alamagordo and Silver City, N. Mex., Devonian fossils were obtained, 
and from here the party proceeded to Eureka, Nev., to join Dr. T. B. 
Nolan, of the United States Geological Survey, in mapping the Good- 
win formation in Goodwin Canyon. The Devonian and Lower Ordo- 
vician beds of some of the ranges west of Eureka were visited and the 
field work ended at Salt Lake City. 

Upon Dr. Cooper's return, Dr. A. R. Loeblich, Jr., was engaged for 
6 weeks in collecting Ordovician fossils in southern Virginia and 
eastern Tennessee, in the region west of Nashville, and the Silurian 
and Devonian in the classic areas of the valleys of the Tennessee River 
in west Tennessee. On a short detail in August 1946 he spent several 
days conferring with Dr. William H. Shideler at Miami University, 
Oxford, Ohio, and a like period collecting Middle Ordovician and 
Lower Devonian fossils in the Arbuckle Mountains, Okla. In late 
April 1947, at the invitation of the Oklahoma Geological Survey, he 
was occupied for 2 weeks in that State on stratigraphic work examin- 
ing and collecting from the Silurian and Lower Devonian of the 
Arbuckle Mountains. 

In addition to the above field investigations, four short trips were 
made by Drs. Cooper and Loeblich into the nearby Appalachians, 
which resulted in good collections and blocks containing silicified 
fossils for etching. The localities visited included the fine Middle 
Ordovician exposures about 5 miles north of Harrisonburg, Va., the 
Lower Devonian exposures on United States Highway No. 40 about 
214 miles west of Indian Springs, Md., the Middle Ordovician at 
Strasburg, Va., and the Silurian and Devonian at Keyser, W. Va., and 
Cumberland, Md. 

The 1946 summer field expedition in vertebrate paleontology, start- 
ing in late May, continued well into the present year. The party, 
composed of Curator C. Lewis Gazin and F. L. Pearce, first reexam- 
ined the Paleocene and Cretaceous beds of central Utah and then de- 
voted the greater part of the field season to prospecting and collecting 
fossil mammal remains from the Middle Eocene beds in the Bridger 
Basin of southwestern Wyoming. Collecting from the Bridger for- 
mation is part of a research program on the Middle Eocene faunas 
begun prior to the war. As a result of these expeditions, the National 
Museum is building up one of the best research collections of Middle 
Eocene mammals in the country and has succeeded in obtaining some 
striking exhibition material representing this very primitive stage of 
mammalian evolution. The party was successful in getting much 
good material of the smaller, less-well-known insectivores, primates, 
rodents, carnivores, and artiodactyls, as well as good skulls of such 
animals as Hyrachyus^ Palaeosyops^ and TJintatheriwm. 



22 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947 

The last 2 weeks of the season were spent in going over Lower 
Eocene beds in the Wind River Basin of central Wyoming and in 
examining and making a collection from an isolated occurrence of 
Duchesne River, Upper Eocene, beds in the northern part of the 
Wind River Basin. 

Associate Curator D. H. Dunkle, accompanied by F. L. Pearce, left 
for field work near Lamy, N. Mex., prior to the close of this fiscal year. 
There, assisted by G. F. Sternberg, they began quarry operations at a 
Triassic locality for an exhibition slab of ancient amphibian skulls 
and other skeletal parts belonging to the genus Buettneria. This has 
now been quarried out and is ready for shipment to the Museum. If 
the season permits, they expect to examine other localities and forma- 
tions of still greater age for fossil fish and primitive tetrapods in the 
general region of east-central New Mexico, with the hope of building 
up a more representative collection of these forms for our study 
collection. 

The 5-nionth sojourn in Japan of Curator W. F. Foshag and 
Associate Curator E. P. Henderson may well be considered a field 
trip, since, whenever time permitted, studies were made on mineral- 
ogical subjects, local universities were visited, and arrangements for 
exchange of material were concluded. 

PUBLICATIONS 

Fourteen publications were issued during the year: One Annual 
Report, three Bulletins, two Contributions from the National Her- 
barium, and eight Proceedings papers. A list of these is given in the 
complete report on Smithsonian publications, appendix 12. 

The distribution of voliunes and separates to libraries and other 
institutions and to individuals aggregated 34,952 copies. 

MEETINGS AND SPECIAL EXHIBITS 

The Smithsonian continued to make available the auditorium and 
lecture room of the Natural History Building to educational, scien- 
tific, welfare, and governmental organizations and groups for meet- 
ings and lectures. During the year 275 groups availed themselves 
of this opportunity. The foyer and adjacent space in the Natural 
History Building were in constant use during the year for a series of 
15 special eidiibits sponsored by various groups, including the Smith- 
sonian Centennial exhibit, which ran from August 10 to September 
27, 1946. In addition, 23 special exhibits were held by the division 
of graphic arts — 12 of etchings, lithographs, and other prints by 
various artists, and 11 of photographs. 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 23 

CHANGES IN ORGANIZATION 

Through a reorganization in the department of engineering and 
industries, a new unit under the division of crafts and industries — 
the section of manufactures — was established effective September 16, 
1946. The section of aeronautics was changed to a division on Jan- 
uary 6, 1947, and at the same time the division of medicine and public 
health was made an independent division reporting to the head 
curator of the department. 

Kespectfully submitted. 

Alexander Wetmore, Director. 

The Secretary, 

Smithsonian Institution. 



777488—48- 



APPENDIX 2 

KEPORT ON THE NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART 

Sir : I have the honor to submit, on behalf of the Board of Trustees 
of the National Gallery of Art, the tenth annual report of the Board, 
covering its operations for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1947. This 
report is made pursuant to the provisions of section 5 (d) of Public 
Resolution No. 14, Seventy-fifth Congress, first session, approved 
March 24, 1937 (50 Stat. 51). 

ORQANIZATION AND STAFF 

During the fiscal year ended June 30, 1947, the Board consisted of 
the Chief Justice of the United States, the Secretary of State, the Sec- 
retary of the Treasury, the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, 
ex officio, and five general trustees, Samuel H. Kress, Ferdinand Lam- 
mot Belin, Duncan Phillips, Chester Dale, and Paul Mellon. 

At its annual meeting held on May 6, 1947, the Board reelected Sam- 
uel H. Kress as President, and Ferdinand Lammot Belin as Vice 
President, to serve for the ensuing year. The executive officgrs con- 
tinuing in office during the year were : 

Huntington Cairns, Secretary-Treasurer. 
David E. Finley, Director. 
Harry A, McBride, Administrator. 
Huntington Cairns, General Counsel. 
John Walker, Chief Curator. 
Macgill James, Assistant Director. 

Donald D. Shepard continued to serve during the year as Adviser to 
the Board. 

On July 1, 1946, Lamont Moore was appointed Curator in charge of 
education and resumed his duties in the Gallery after an absence of 3 
years. During that time he served in the Army of the United States 
in the European Theater and as Assistant Secretary to the American 
Commission for the Protection and Salvage of Artistic and Historic 
Monuments in War Areas. 

The three standing committees of the Board, provided for in the 
bylaws, as constituted at the annual meeting of the Board, held May 6, 
1947, were : 

Executive Committee 

Chief Justice of the United States, ex oflBcio, Fred M. Vinson, Chairman. 
Samuel H. Kress, Vice Chairman. 
Ferdinand Lammot Belin. 

24 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 25 

Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, Dr. Alexander Wetmore. 
Paul Mellon. 

Finance Committee 

Secretary of the Treasury, ex officio, John W. Snyder, Chairman. 
Samuel H. Kress, Vice Chairman. 
Ferdinand Lammot Belin. 
Paul Mellon. 
Chester Dale. 

Acquisitions Committee 

Samuel H. Kress, Chairman. 

Ferdinand Lammot Belin, Vice Chairman. 

Duncan Phillips. 

Chester Dale. 

David E. Finley, ex officio. 

The permanent Government positions on the Gallery staff are filled 
from registers of the United States Civil Service Commission, or with 
its approval. On June 30, 1947, the permanent Government staff of 
the Gallery numbered 305 employees, as compared with 298 employees 
on June 30, 1946. 

Throughout the year a high standard of operation and maintenance 
of the Gallery building and grounds, and protection of the Gallery's 
collections of works of art, has been sustained. 

APPROPRIATIONS 

For salaries and expenses for the upkeep and operation of the Na- 
tional Gallery of Art, the protection and care of works of art acquired 
by the Board of Trustees, and all administrative expenses incident 
thereto pursuant to the provisions of section 4 (a) of Public Kesolution 
No. 14, Seventy-fifth Congress, first session, approved March 24, 1937 
(50 Stat. 51), the Congress appropriated for the fiscal year ended 
June 30, 1947, the sum of $883,920. This amount included the regular 
appropriation of $772,490, a supplemental appropriation of $101,000 
primarily to meet the Gallery's obligations under the Federal Em- 
ployees Pay Act of 1946, and an additional appropriation of $10,430 
to make up other deficiencies in the 1947 appropriation caused mainly 
by the higher salaries paid returning veterans over war service in- 
cumbents, in-grade promotions, and reallocations of positions by the 
Civil Service Commission in 1946 and 1947. 

From these appropriations the following expenditures and encum- 
brances were incurred: 

Personal services $771, 508. 54 

Printing and binding 3, 999. 72 

Supplies, equipment, etc 108,382.23 

Unencumbered balance 29.51 

Total 883,920. 00 



26 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947 

In addition to the above-mentioned appropriations, the Gallery re- 
ceived the sum of $21,600 from the Department of State to cover ex- 
penses during the fiscal year of the Inter-American Office of the 
Gallery, for the promotion of art activities between the United Sates 
and the Latin-American Republics. 

ATTENDANCE 

During the fiscal year 1947, there were 1,448,038 visitors to the Gal- 
lery building, an average daily attendance of 3,989. This attendance 
figure shows a decline as comparea with last year, when the total 
number of visitors was 1,947,668. The decrease is undoubtedly due to 
the fact that during the first 6 months of the fiscal year there were 
fewer men and women from the armed services in the city and normal 
tourist traffic had not yet been resumed. Attendance during the last 
3 months of the year has risen nearly to the 1946 level, visits of groups 
of school children being unusually numerous. 

The Sunday evening openings, featuring concerts in the Gallery's 
East Garden Court without admission charge, have continued to be 
exceedingly popular throughout the year. 

CARE AND MAINTENANCE OF THE BUILDING 

It was necessary during the year to overhaul completely two of the 
large refrigeration machines, and this was successfully accomplished 
by the Gallery staflf. 

Considerable improvement has been made in the care of the grounds, 
including the extension of the irrigation system, and the Gallery staff 
is now growing a large portion of the smaller plants used for the 
decoration of the two garden courts. 

The staff also produced all the special exhibition cases and several 
pedestals for the exhibition of Indigenous Art of the Americas (Bliss 
Collection), as well as the special lighting effects required for this 
exhibition. 

INSTALLATION OF ADDITIONAL AIE-CONDITIONING EQUIPMENT 

As stated in the annual report for the fiscal year 1946, the gradual 
opening of additional spaces in the Gallery building and the con- 
struction of six new galleries made it necessary to augment the air- 
conditioning equipment. This was made possible by funds donated 
for the purpose, and the installation of a fourth refrigeration machine 
is now in the final stage of completion. It was anticipated that this 
contract would be completed during the fiscal year 1946, but owing 
to various difficulties the date of completion was necessarily delayed. 
It is now expected that the installation should be completed and all 
equipment ready for operation by November 1947. 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 27 

PUBLICATIONS 

The publishing program of the National Gallery of Art, under the 
direction of the Custodians of the Publications Fund, has continued 
its expansion. During the fiscal year the third edition of Master- 
pieces of Painting from the National Gallery of Art, by Huntington 
Cairns and John Walker, was published. Arrangements also were 
made for the publication of an English edition. The Gallery has 
initiated a series of National Gallery of Art handbooks, two of which 
were issued during the year. These are : How to Look at Works of 
Art : The Search for Line, by Lois A. Bingham, and Chinese Porce- 
lains of the Widener Collection, by Erwin O. Christensen. Also issued 
during the year was a small volume of color reproductions, entitled 
"Favorite Paintings from the National Gallery of Art," with accom- 
panying texts prepared by the Curatorial and Educational 
Departments. 

Various articles by members of the Gallery staff were published dur- 
ing the year. An article on Hobbes' Theoi-y of Law, by Himtington 
Cairns, appeared in the 1946 issue of Seminar, and one on Leibniz's 
Theory of Law in the Harvard Law Eeview for December 1946. A 
lecture by Mr. Cairns, delivered at Harvard University on May 3, 1947, 
as part of a 3-day Symposium on Music Criticism, and entitled "The 
Future of Musical Patronage in America," will be published by Har- 
vard University Press in book form. Mr. Cairns also contributed an 
article, "Philosophy as Jurisprudence," to Essays in Honor of Roscoe 
Pound, published by Oxford University Press. A comprehensive 
article on the National Gallery, its collections, installations, and his- 
tory, prepared by J. B. Eggen, was issued at the close of 1946 as volume 
57-58 of the International Museum Journal, Mouseion, Paris, France. 

An article on American Painters and British Critics, by John 
Walker, was published in the Gazette des Beaux-Arts, and a series of 
12 brief articles on American paintings in the Tate Exhibition, also by 
Mr. Walker, appeared in The Ladies' Home Journal. Charles Sey- 
mour, Jr., published an article on Thirteenth-Century Art, and another 
in collaboration with Harms Swarzenski on A Madonna of Humility 
and Quercia's Early Style, both appearing in the Gazette des Beaux- 
Arts. James W. Lane contributed to Art in America, The College 
Art Journal, The Catholic World, and other publications. Members 
of the curatorial staff under Mr. Seymour's direction also edited the 
handbook of the Bliss Collection of Pre-Columbian Art, entitled "In- 
digenous Art of the Americas," the text for which was supplied by 
Samuel Lothrop. 

Books by members of the staff in preparation or in press at the end of 
the fiscal year included The Limits of Art, by Mr. Cairns, an extensive 
compilation of selections of poetry and prose that have been held to be 



28 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947 

the greatest of their kind in critical literature from Aristotle to recent 
times. A fully illustrated volume on the Gallery's sculpture, designed 
as a companion volume to Masterpieces of Painting, by Messrs. Cairns 
and Walker, is being prepared by Mr. Seymour for publication next 
year under the title "Sculpture in the National Gallery of Art." A 
book by Elizabeth Mongan on the Gallery's print collection will appear 
in 1949. A thesis on Jan Mandijn, by Charles M. Richards, will also 
be published. A work entitled "Three Centuries of American Paint- 
ing" has been prepared by James W. Lane. A comprehensive work on 
the Index of American Design, tentatively entitled "Made in America," 
is being compiled by Mr. Christensen for publication in the near future. 
Another book by Mr. Christensen scheduled to appear jointly in the 
United States and England is entitled "Popular Art in the United 
States." A picture book on the paintings and sculpture in the Widener 
Collection is now on the press, and five handbooks on the Widener 
Collection of Decorative Arts have been prepared by Mr. Christensen. 

Work on the revision and amplification of the Gallery's original 
preliminary catalog, published in 1941, has continued. For the re- 
vised catalog of paintings, notes have been prepared on more than 
three-fourths of the new paintings not previously cataloged. The 
sculpture catalog, being prepared by Mr. Seymour, is also moving 
rapidly to completion. 

Other forthcoming publications by members of the Gallery staff 
include an article by Huntington Cairns on Robert Briffault and the 
Rehabilitation of the Matriarchal Theory for An Introduction to 
the History of Sociology, to be published by the University of Chicago 
Press, and also an article on The Future of Musical Patronage, to 
appear in the Atlantic Monthly. A second series of short articles 
by Mr. Walker, on paintings in the Chester Dale Collection, will ap- 
pear in The Ladies' Home Journal. An article on Houdon by Mr. 
Seymour is scheduled for publication in the Gazette des Beaux-Arts, 
and an article on American Folk Art as Revealed in the Index of 
American Design, by Mr. Christensen, will be published in Art in 
America. 

Miss Mongan has been made an editor of the Graphic Art section 
of a new edition of the Encyclopaedia Britannica. Mr. Christensen 
has reassembled and organized unbound copies of the Widener tapestry 
catalog into portfolios for sale in the Information Rooms and distri- 
bution to colleges. 

The Publications Fund has continued to supply color reproductions 
of fine quality but moderately priced, and it is rather interesting to 
note that in one item — postcards of works of art — nearly 3,000,000 
copies have been sold since the Gallery was opened in 1941. 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 29 

Publishers of large collotype reproductions of paintings in the Na- 
tional Gallery have added 14 new titles to their lists during the fiscal 
year 1947, and the Publications Fund is now able to offer a total of 
52 of these large reproductions to the public. 

CUSTODY OF GERMAN SILVER 

Under date of February 21, 1947, the Secretary of War requested 
the National Gallery of Art to provide space and safe storage for the 
HohenzoUern silver service, following a ruling by the War Depart- 
ment with the concurrence of the Treasury Department that the silver- 
ware is the property of the United States. On April 11, 1947, the 
Gallery received from the War Department 44 sealed cases, weighing 
approximately 7 tons, .said to contain silverware and glassware, and 
placed the cases in a storage room for indefinite custody and storage. 

ACQUISITIONS 
GUTS OF PAINTINGS AND BCTTLPTURB 

On August 8, 1946, the Board of Trustees accepted the following 
group of 19 French paintings from Samuel H. Kress and the Samuel 
H. Kress Foundation : 

Artist Title 

Boucher, Francois Allegory of Painting. 

Boucher, Francois Allegory of Music. 

Boucher, Francois Madame Bergeret. 

Drouais, Francois-Hubert Group Portrait. 

Fragonard, Jean-Honore A Game of Horse and Rider. 

Fragonard, Jean-Honore A Game of Hot Cockles. 

Fragonard, Jean-Honore The Visit to the Nursery, 

Greuze, Jean-Baptiste Monsieur de la Live de JuUy. 

Watteau, Antoine Italian Comedians. 

Chardin, Jean-Baptiste Simeon Portrait of an Old Woman, 

Le Naiu, Louis Landscape with Peasants. 

Lorrain, Claude (Gellee, Claude) The Herdsman, 

Nattier, Jean-Marc Madame de Caumartin as Hebe. 

Poussin, Nicolas The Baptism of Christ. 

Rigaud, Hyacinthe President Hebert. 

Vigee-Lebrun, Elisabeth Marquise de Laborde. 

Watteau, Antoine "Sylvia" (Jeanne-Rose Guyonne Benozzi), 

Ingres, Jean-Auguste-Dominique Madame Moitessier. 

Pater, Jean-Baptiste-Joseph Fete Champetre, 

The Board of Trustees on November 25, 1946, accepted from Samuel 
H. Kress and the Samuel H. Kress Foundation the painting, "The 
Laocoon," by El Greco, and the portrait of Monsignor Diomede Fal- 
conio, by Thomas Eakins, from Stephen C. Clark. On January 7, 
1947, the Board of Trustees accepted from an anonymous donor a 



30 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947 

portrait of Gen. Dwight D. Eisenhower, by Thomas E. Stephens, to 
be held for a National Portrait Gallery. On May 6, 1947, the Board 
of Trustees accepted two paintings, "Love as Conqueror" and "Love as 
Folly," by Jean-Honore Fragonard, from Miss Jean Simpson ; a por- 
trait of Captain Charles Stewart, by Thomas Sully, from Mrs. Maude 
Monell Vetlesen ; and also resolved to accept a bust of John Muir, by 
Edwin Keith Harkness, from Mrs. lone Bellamy Harkness, to be 
held for a National Portrait Gallery. The Board of Trustees also 
on May 6, 1947, recorded their prior acceptance from Mrs. Frederica 
R. Giles of a painting entitled "Ships in the Scheldt Estuary," by 
Abraham Storck. 

GIFTS or DEX»BATIVB ABT8 

On November 25, 1946, the Board of Trustees accepted from Mrs. 
Lessing J. Rosenwald a miniature painting, on ivory, of Maria Miles 
Heyward, by Edward Greene Malbone, which was accompanied by a 
pin with a painting of an eye of Maria Miles Heyward, by Malbone. 

GIFTS OF FEINTS AND DRAWINGS 

The Board of Trustees, on August 8, 1946, accepted a collection of 
273 prints and drawings bequeathed by Mrs. Addie Burr Clark, a 
further gift of 255 prints and drawings from Lessing J. Rosenwald, 
and 3 prints, En Ballade, by Constantine Guys, Head and Bust of a 
Woman, by Sir Joshua Reynolds, and Le Stryge, by Meryon, from 
Myron A. Hofer. On November 25, 1946, the Board of Trustees ac- 
cepted from Myron A. Hofer a print. Morgue, by Meryon. On January 
7, 1947, the Board of Trustees accepted a further gift of 399 prints 
and drawings from Lessing J. Rosenwald, and an engraved portrait of 
Charles I of England, by Vorsterman, from Willis Ruffner. The 
Board of Trustees on May 6, 1947, accepted from an anonymous donor 
a mezzotint entitled "The Mill," by Charles Turner, after Rembrandt. 

GUTS TO THE INDBX OF AMERICAN DESIGN 

The Board of Trustees, on May 6, 1947, accepted from Albert Lewin 
40 water-color drawings by Perkins Harnly for the Index of American 
Design. 

EXCHANGE OF WOEKS OF AET 

The Board of Trustees during the fiscal year 1947 accepted the offer 
of Lessing J. Rosenwald to exchange an engraving by Schongauer en- 
titled "Crucifixion," two lithographs by Wliistler entitled "Study" and 
"Lady Haden," and an engraving by Brosamer entitled "Christ on 
Cross," for superior impressions of like engravings and lithographs 
now included in the Rosenwald Collection at the National Gallery of 
Art. 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 31 

LOAN OF WORKS OF ART TO THE GALLERY 

During the fiscal year 1947 the following works of art were received 
on loan : 

Partioularg Artist 

From Mrs. Ailsa M. Bruce, New York, N. Y. : 

2 tapestries. 

The Raising of Tabitha Tournai, c. 1460. 

The Conversion of the Centurion Cornelius Tournai, c. 1460. 

From George Matthew Adams, New York, N. Y. : 

124 drawings and etchings. 
From Charles B. Harding, Laura Harding, and 
Catharine H. Tailer, New York, N. Y. : 

Portrait of Victor Guye Goya. 

From Mrs. Huttleston Rogers, New York, N. Y. : 

The Tricycle Monet. 

Roses Renoir. 

The Artist and the Widow Forain. 

Chemin dans le Brouillard Monet. 

Le Tribunal de Pontoise Pissarro. 

Le Jour d'Hiver Sisley. 

Roses in a Chinese Vase and Sculpture by 

Maillol Vuillard. 

Maternity Gauguin. 

LOANED WORKS OF ART RETURNED 

During the year the following works of art loaned to the Gallery 
were returned to the lenders : 

Particulars Artist 

To the French Government: 

The entire collection of French paintings on 
loan, with the exception of Mile. DuBourg 

(Mme. Fantin-Latour) Degas. 

To the Belgian Government: 

12 of the 14 paintings on loan, leaving 2 pic- 
tures belonging to M. Stuyck del Bruyere. 
To the J. H. Whittemore Co., Naugatuck, Conn. : 

Avant la Course Degas. 

To Col. Axel H. Oxholm, Washington, D. C. : 

Martha Washington Attributed to Ralph B. Earl. 

To Mrs. Huttleston Rogers, New York, N. Y. : 

Roses Renoir. 

The Artist and the Widow Forain. 

Chemin dans le Brouillard Monet. 

Le Tribunal de Pontoise Pissarro. 

Le Jour d'Hiver Sisley. 

Roses in a Chinese Vase and Sculpture by 

Maillol Vuillard. 

Maternity Gauguin. 



32 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947 

LOAN OF WORKS OF ART BY THE GALLERY 

During the fiscal year 1947, the Gallery loaned the following works 
of art for exhibition purposes : 

Particulars Artis* 

To The Art Institute of Chicago, Chicago, 111. : 

3 rugs. 

To M. Knoedler & Co., New York, N. Y. : 

Ralph Waldo Emerson Thomas Sully. 

To the National Collection of Fine Arts, Washing- 
ton, D. O. : 

4 miniatures: 

Louis de Bourbon, Prince de Conde Petitot. 

Henri Jules, Due d' Albert Petitot. 

Maria Miles Heyward Malbone. 

Pin with painting of an eye of Maria 

Miles Heyward Malbone. 

To the Wildenstein Galleries, New York, N. Y. : 

Breezing Up Winslow Homer. 

To the Society of the Cincinnati, Washington, D. C. : 

Alexander Hamilton John Trumbull. 

To the J. B. Speed Memorial Museum, Louisville, 
Ky.: 

Henry Clay John James Audubon. 

Henry Laurens ^ John Singleton Copley. 

Andrew Jackson Ralph E. Earl. 

DeWitt Clinton John Wesley Jarvis. 

Jane Cutler Doane Samuel King. 

William Rush John Neagle. 

General William Moultrie Charles Willson Peale. 

George Washington Rembrandt Peale. 

Mrs. George Pollock Gilbert Stuart. 

Governor Charles Ridgely Thomas Sully. 

James Monroe John Vanderlyn. 

Self-Portrait Benjamin West. 

Mary Walton Morris John Wollaston. 

To the Tate Gallery, London, England : 

150 examples from the Index of American 
Design. 
To the U. S. Department of State, Blair-Lee House, 
Washington, D. C. : 

Daniel Webster George P. A. Healy. 

To the White House, Washington, D. C. : 

Men of Progress Schussele. 

George Washington (porthole portrait) Rembrandt Peale. 

Andrew Jackson Ralph E. Earl. 

EXHIBITIONS 

The following exhibitions were held at the National Gallery of Art 
during the fiscal year ended June 30, 1947 : 

Life of Christ as depicted in the etchings of Rembrandt. Prints from the 
Rosenwald Collection and an anonymous lender, from May 14 to September 8, 1946. 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 33 

Audubon prints, "Birds of America." Elephant folio set by John James Audu- 
bon, from May 26 to July 28, 194G. 

Music in prints. Prints from the Rosenwald Collection, from June 18 to Decem- 
ber 8, 1946. 

Made in America. One hundred and eleven water colors from the Index of 
American Design, from August 4 to September 15, 1946. 

American etchings, woodcuts, and lithographs. Prints from the collection of 
the National Gallery of Art, from September 11 to October 2, 1946. 

New acquisitions in the Rosenwald Collection. Additional prints and draw- 
ings acquired by Lessing J. Rosenwald, from September 22 to December 1, 
1946. 

Sculpture, drawings, and prints by Rodin. From the collections of Mrs. John 
W. Simpson and Lessing J. Rosenwald, from October 6 to December 12, 1946. 

Paintings looted from Holland by the Nazis, returned through the efforts of 
the United States Armed Forces. Forty-six paintings circulated under the 
supervision of the Albright Art Gallery, Buffalo, N. Y. ; scheduled for showing 
at various museums throughout the country ; shown at National Gallery from 
December 7, 1946, to January 1, 1947. 

Liber Studiorum, by J. M. W. Turner. Prints from the National Gallery 
of Art collections, from December 10, 1946, to April 27, 1947. 

The Christmas Story in prints. Prints from the National Gallery of Art 
collections, from December 13, 1946, to February 5, 1947. 

Prints and drawings by Alphonse Legros. Prints and drawings from the col- 
lection of George Matthew Adams, of New York, from January 12 to February 
16, 1947. 

American paintings. Portraits from the collection of the National Gallery of 
Art, from February 23 to March 30, 1947. 

Woodcuts, lithographs, and etchings by Paul Gauguin and Edvard Munch. 
Prints by Gauguin lent anonymously, prints by Munch from the Rosenwald 
Collection, from April 6 to May 30, 1947. 

Indigenous Art of the Americas. Pre-Columbian art from the collection of 
the Honorable Robert Woods Bliss, of Washington, D. C, from April 18, 1947, 
to continue for an indefinite period. 

Prints and drawings by William Blake. Prints from the National Gallery of 
Art collections and loans, from April 29 to June 8, 1947. 

Chiaroscuro woodcuts from the sixteenth through the eighteenth centuries. 
Lent anonymously. Opened June 8, 1947. 

Prints by James Abbott McNeill Whistler. Prints from the collection of the 
National Gallery of Art, opened June 13, 1947. 

TRAVELING EXHIBITIONS 

Index of American Design. Exhibitions from this collection of 
water colors, drawings, etc., have been shown during the fiscal year 
1947 at the following places: Lyman Allyn Museum, New London, 
Conn. ; Seamen's Bank for Savings, New York, N. Y. ; Hood College, 
Frederick, Md. ; Dallas Museum of Fine Arts, Dallas, Tex. ; North- 
western University, Evanston, 111. ; Library of Congress, Washington, 
D. C. ; Lakeside Press Galleries, Chicago, 111.; Philadelphia Museum 
of Art, Philadelphia, Pa.; Massillon Museum, Massillon, Ohio; Col- 
lege of Wooster, Wooster, Ohio ; McMurray College for Women, Jack- 



34 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947 

sonville, 111. ; Salt Lake City Junior League, Salt Lake City, Utah ; 
Palette Club, Ogden, Utah; Rockford Art Association, Rockford, 111. ; 
Speed Memorial Museum, Louisville, Ky. ; N. W. Ayer Gallery, Phila- 
delphia, Pa.; and the American Federation of Arts, Washington, 
D. C, for circulation throughout the United States. 

Rosenwald prints. During the fiscal year 1947 special exhibitions 
of prints from the Rosenwald Collection were circulated to the follow- 
ing places : 

The Art Institute of Chicago, Chicago, 111. : 

William Hogarth collection of engravings. October to November, 1946. 
Duke University, Durham, N. C. : 

Daumier loan exhibition. December 1946. 
Philadelphia Museum of Art, Philadelphia, Pa. : 

Survey of water color. Nine water colors, four miniatures, Including Blake, 
Fragonard, Gauguin, Rembrandt, Cameron, and McBey. February to 
March, 1947. 
The Mint Museum of Art, Charlotte, N. C. : 

Daumier loan exhibition. February 1947. 
California Palace of the Legion of Honor, San Francisco, Calif. : 

Nineteenth-century French exhibition of drawings by Manet, Delacroix, 
Daumier, Degas ; from the Rosenwald and Hofer Collections. March 1947. 
The University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, N. O. : 

Daumier loan exhibition. March 1947. 
Detroit Institute of Arts, Detroit, Mich. : 

Six centuries of prints. May to August, 1947. 

Four exhibitions of Rosenwald prints were arranged and held at 
Alverthorpe Gallery, Jenkintown, Pa. 

VARIOUS GALLERY ACTTVITIES 

During the period from July 1, 1946, through June 30, 1947, a total 
of 52 Sunday evening concerts were given in the East Garden Court 
of the Gallery. The concerts were free to the public, and were at- 
tended by over 50,000 persons. During March 1947 five concerts were 
devoted to American composers, comprising the Gallery's Fourth 
American Music Festival. 

A total of 4,056 copies of press releases, 130 special permits to copy 
paintings in the Gallery, and 107 special permits to photograph in the 
Gallery were issued during the year. 

Of the seven 16-mm. sound prints of the film. National Gallery of 
Art, originally owned by the Gallery, three have been sent to foreign 
countries. The first gift was to the National Gallery of Victoria, 
Melbourne, Australia; another print was deposited with the Amer- 
ican Embassy in Paris on indefinite loan, and later was given to the 
Embassy ; a third print was given to the American Embassy in Lis- 
bon, Portugal. 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 35 

The film was made available to 16 institutions and individuals dur- 
ing the year. One of the 16-mm. prints was on loan in South Carolina 
for several months during the winter, in which time it was viewed 
by approximately 3,000 people. 

INDEX or AMERICAN DESIGN 

For the period from July 1, 1946, to June 30, 1947, reproductions 
of Index material were used in a number of magazines, including 
Fortune, Life, Antiques, The American Collector, Architectural Re- 
view, and Art in America. There were 118 new users of the Index 
this year, and 24 people revisited the collection. The great majority 
of them made a special trip to Washington for the purpose of study- 
ing Index material. They included a university class in American 
art, designers, manufacturers, artists interested in design motifs, 
authors, editors, publishers, etc. A total of 1,048 photographs of 
Index designs were sold for use in commercial design by individuals 
and by firms, for hobbies, for publications, for teaching purposes, for 
publicity, and for reference and exhibitions. During the year 449 
new slides were made of Index material for use in lectures. 

INTER-AMERICAN OFFICE 

During the fiscal year 1947 the Inter-American Office of the Na- 
tional Gallery of Art has continued to devote its efforts to the circu- 
lation of exhibitions in the other American Republics. These exhibi- 
tions, two of original works of art and six consisting of photographic 
panels, have been very well received in Latin America. 

CURATORIAL DEPARTMENT 

During the past year there were 1,510 new accessions by the Gallery 
as gifts, loans, or deposits, including paintings, sculpture, prints, and 
the decorative arts. These accessions were registered and the great 
majority placed on exhibition, or in the case of prints, placed on file 
and available to the public. A total of 161 works of art were brought 
to the Gallery for expert opinion, and 92 visits were made to collec- 
tions of private individuals in connection with offers of gift or loan, 
or possible acquisitions for the Gallery. The curatorial staff made 290 
written and 293 verbal replies to questions from the public requiring 
research. During the year 17 lectures and 3 lecture courses were 
given by members of the curatorial staff. 

Other activities of the Curatorial Department include the follow- 
ing : The collections of paintings and drawings belonging to the French 
and the Belgian Governments were packed and dispatched to Europe 
during this year; the collection of American paintings assembled by 



36 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947 

the Gallery for exhibition at the Tate Gallery in England was re- 
ceived, unpacked, inspected, and returned to its original owners; a 
collection of 46 paintings from Dutch sources was received, exhibited, 
and dispatched on its tour of the United States ; and the Bliss Collec- 
tion of Pre-Columbian Art was exhibited in a special installation ar- 
ranged by the curatorial staff at the entrance of the central gallery. 
The cataloging and filing of photographs in the Richter Archive is 
now four-fifths finished. 

RESTORATIOISr AND REPAIR OF WORKS OF ART 

With the authorization of the Board and the approval of the Chief 
Curator the necessary restoration and repair of works of art in the 
Gallery's collection were made by Stephen S. Pichetto, Consultant 
Restorer to the Gallery. All work was completed in the Restorer's 
studio in the Gallery. 

EDUCATIONAL PROGRAM 

The survey tours of the whole collection continue to be a vital part 
of the Educational Department's program, satisfying the demand of 
the many sightseers and newcomers to Washington who feel the need 
for a general introduction to the Gallery as a whole. More than 10,000 
persons attended the General, Congressional, and Wing Tours, while 
over 27,000 attended the Gallery Talks and the Picture of the Week. 
Approximately 28,000 came to hear the lectures and other programs 
in the auditorium. Special appointments, tours, and conferences were 
arranged for 2,169 persons. The Educational Department has con- 
tinued the publication of a printed monthly announcement of all the 
Gallery's activities. It has a circulation of 5,900 copies. 

LIBRARY 

A total of 1,076 books, 467 pamphlets, and 596 periodicals were 
given to the National Gallery of Art; 20 books were purchased and 
27 periodicals were subscribed to. A total of 59 books, 119 pamphlets, 
and 393 bulletins were received on exchange from other institutions; 
204 photographs and 80 slides were presented as gifts to the library. 
Outstanding among the gifts were 75 American history books, par- 
ticularly useful as background material for the Index of American 
Design. This year, 2,054 books were borrowed and returned, 1,986 of 
which were borrowed from the Library of Congress. For the remain- 
ing 68, the Gallery is indebted to museum and university libraries and 
public libraries. 

PHOTOGRAPHIC DEPARTMENT 

During the year the photographic laboratory of the Gallery made 
17,111 prints, 506 black-and-white slides, and 1,729 color slides, in 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 37 

addition to 2,170 negatives, and 87 X-rays, infrared photographs, 
ultraviolet photographs, and color separation negatives. 

OTHER GII'TS 

During the year gifts of books on art and related material were 
made to the Gallery Library by Paul Mellon, David K. E. Bruce, the 
Victoria and Albert Museum, Chester Dale, Miss Fernande L. Herr- 
man, and Dr. Herbert Friedmann. Gifts of money during the fiscal 
year 1947 were made by Paul Mellon, Mrs. Maude Monell Vetlesen, and 
David E. Finley. A sum of money was anonymously given with the 
provision that the income therefrom will be available for the acquisi- 
tion of contemporary works of art by American artists, and for prizes 
and awards to American artists. 

Aunrr of pris^ate funds of the gallery 

An audit has been made of the private funds of the Gallery for the 
fiscal year ended June 30, 1947, by Price, Waterhouse & Co., public 
accountants, and the certificate of that company on its examination of 
the accounting records maintained for such funds will be forwarded to 
the Gallery. 
Eespectfully submitted. 

Huntington Cairns, 

/Secretary. 
The Secretary, 

Smithsonian Institution. 



APPENDIX 3 

EEPORT ON THE NATIONAL COLLECTION OF FINE ARTS 

Sir : I have the honor to submit the following report on the activities 
of the National Collection of Fine Arts for the fiscal year ended 
June 30, 1947: 

THE SMITHSONIAN ART COMMISSION 

The twenty-fourth annual meeting of the Smithsonian Art Com- 
mission was held on Friday, December 6, 1946, having been postponed 
from its regular date, the first Tuesday in December. The members 
assembled at 10 : 30 a. m., in the Smithsonian Building to pass on the 
works of art which had been offered during the year. The following 
action was taken : 

Accepted for the National Collection of Fine Arts 

Oil painting, Self Portrait, by G. P. A, Healy (1813-94) . Gift of Ruel P. Tolman. 

Oil painting, A Morning in Summer, by Leonard Ochtman, N. A, (1854-1934). 
Henry Ward Ranger bequest. 

Plaster bust of Charles Henry Niehaus, by Adolph Alexander Weinman, N. A. 
(1870- ). Gift of Miss Marie J. Niehaus. 

Plaster plaque of Joseph Pennell, by John Flanagan (1865- ). Gift of Miss 
A. Margaretta Archambault. 

Raku tea bowl, made by Yanagisawa Kien (1703-58). Gift of Miss Catharine 
McE. Ames. 

Miniature, Portrait of a Man, by George Catlin (1796-1872) . Gift of Bernard N. 
Burnstine : 

Twenty-two miniatures and one silver medal. Gift of Mrs. Henry DuPr6 
Bounetheau : 

Mrs. Arthur Middleton (1791-1840) (Alicia Hopton Russell), by Henry B. 

Bounetheau (1797-1877), after tlie original by Andrew Robertson, 1836. 
Peter Bounetheau In Magistrate's Robes (1742-98), father of the artist, 

by Henry B. Bounetheau, after head of the Benbridge miniature. 
Peter Bounetheau (1742-98), by Henry Benbridge (1744r-18l2). 
Mrs. John Middleton (Mary Burroughs), by Henry B. Bounetheau, after 

an English artist. 
Self Portrait, 1867, after picture when 50 years old, by Henry B. Bounetheau. 
Mrs. Henry B. Bounetheau (1822-69) (Julia Clarkson DuPr6), by Henry 

B. Bounetheau. 
Henry DuPr6 Bounetheau, 1849 (1842-1901) , by Henry B. Bounetheau. 
Mme. Julia DuPrS, about 1830, mother of Mrs. Henry B. Bounetheau, by a 

French artist. 

38 



REPORT OP THE SECRETARY 39 

Henry Gourdin, of Charleston, godfather of the artist's son, by Henry B. 

Bouuetheau. 
Portrait of an Unknown Man, painted about 1838-42, by Henry B. Bounetheau. 
Portrait of an Unknown Woman, painted about 1840-60, by Henry B. 

Bounetheau. 
Portrait of an Unknown Woman, by an English artist. 
Napoleon as General, by Henry B. Bounetheau, after Sully, after Appiani. 
King Lear in the Storm, by Henry B. Bounetheau, after Sir Joshua Reynolds. 
George Washington, by Henry B. Bounetheau, after Gilbert Stuart. 
Henry B. Bounetheau's Aunt, c. 1804, by Edward Greene Malbone (1777-1807). 
Portrait of an Unknown Woman, by an unknown artist. 
Frances Anne Kemble (1809-93), by Henry B. Bounetheau, after Thomas 

Sully. 
General George Washington, by Henry B. Bounetheau, after the Trumbull 

at Charleston, S. C. 
Napoleon Bonaparte, by Henry B. Bounetheau, after Favre. 
Unmasked, by Henry B. Bounetheau, after a colored engraving by W. 

Nicholas, after the painting by Mrs. Pierson, published in London, April 

1, 1831, by J. Brookes. 
Sleeping Beauty, by Henry B. Bounetheau. 
Silver medal awarded to Mr. Bounetheau for the best miniatures on ivory, 

by The South Carolina Institute, 1849. 

Accepted for the Smithsonian Institution 

Bronze statue, Ecstasy, by Francisco Albert. Gift of the sculptor. 
Celadon vase, made by Makuzu Kozan. Gift of Milo E. Emmerson. 

The members then met in the Regents Room, adjacent, for further 
proceedings of the annual meeting. The meeting was called to order 
by the chairman, Mr. Manship, at 11 : 25 a, m. 

Tlie members present were : Paul Manship, chairman ; Dr. Alexander 
Wetmore, secretary (member, ex officio) ; and Robert W. Bliss, John 
N. Brown, George H. Edgell, David E. Finley, George H. Myei^, 
Archibald G. Wenley, and James E. Eraser. Ruel P. Tolman, Director 
of the National Collection of Fine Arts, also attended. 

The resignation of Louis Ajres was submitted and accepted with 
regret. The secretary was instructed to write Mr. Ayres expressing 
the appreciation of the Commission for his valuable services while 
a member. 

The resignation of Frank J. Mather, a charter member, was sub- 
mitted and accepted with regret. The secretary was instructed to 
invite Mr. Mather to all future meetings, and to inform him that the 
Commission would consider him a member emeritus. 

The Commission recommended to the Board of Regents the name 
of William T. Aldrich to succeed Mr. Ayres, and Lloyd Goodrich 
to succeed Mr. Mather. 

The Commission recommended the re-election of John Taylor Arms, 
Gifford Bcal, and Gilmore D. Clarke for the usual 4-year period. 

T77488 — 48 4 



40 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947 

The following officers were elected for the eixsuing year: Paul 
Manship, chairman; Robert Woods Bliss, vice chairman; and Dr. 
Alexander Wetmore, secretary. 

The following were elected members of the executive committee for 
the ensuing year: David E. Finley, chairman, Robert Woods Bliss, 
and Gilmore D. Clarke. Paul Manship, as chairman of the Commis- 
sion, and Dr. Alexander Wetmore, as secretary of the Commission, are 
ex officio members of the executive committee. 

THE CATHERINE WALDBN MYER FUND 

Nine miniatures, water color on ivory unless otherwise stated, were 
acquired from the fund established through the bequest of the late 
Catherine Walden Myer, as follows : 

55. Portrait of an Officer, signed "Rockstuhl, fee." ; from James W. Lane, 
Chevy Chase, Md. 

56. Portrait of a Young Man, by unknown artist ; from James W. Lane, Chevy 
Chase, Md. 

57. Portrait of a Gentleman, by Henry Inman, N. A. (1801-46), water color 
on paper ; from Mrs. Dorothy Draper Hamlen Sale, Parke-Bernet Galleries, 
Inc., New York City. 

58. Portrait of a Gentleman, by Thomas Seir Cummings (1804-94) ; from 
Mrs. Dorothy Draper Hamlen Sale, Parke-Bernet Galleries, Inc., New York City. 

59. Joseph W. Faber of Charleston, S. C, by Charles Fraser (1782-1860) ; 
from Mrs. Dorothy Draper Hamlen Sale, Parke-Bernet Galleries, Inc., New 
York City. 

60. Alexander Rose, by John Ramage (before 1763-1802) ; from Mrs. 
Dorothy Draper Hamlen Sale, Parke-Bernet Galleries, Inc., New York City. 

61. Harriet Hampton, by Charles Fraser (1782-1860) ; from Mrs. Dorothy 
Draper Hamlen Sale, Parke-Bernet Galleries, Inc., New York City. 

62. Roger Brooke Taney (1777-1864), by unknown artist; from Mamie C. 
Faulconer, Alexandria, Va. 

63. Little Girl with Doll, by John Carlin (1813-91) ; from Edmund Bury, 
Philadelphia, Pa. 

LOANS ACCEPTED 

Two enamel miniature portraits of Louis de Bourbon, Prince de 
Conde, and Henri Jules, Due d'Albret, by Jean Petitot, the Younger 
(b. 1653), with frames by Gilles Legare de Chaumont (1610-cl653), 
and two miniatures on ivory, a Portrait of Maria Miles Heyward 
(Mrs. William Drayton), and her "Eye," by Edward Greene 
Malbone, about 1803, were lent by the National Gallery of Art, with 
the permission of the donor, Lessing J. Rosenwald, on March 6, 1947. 

One miniature on ivory. Portrait of Robert Goodloe Harper (1765- 
1825), by Benjamin Trott, was lent by the family of Robert Goodloe 
Harper Speed, on June 27, 1947. 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 41 

WITHDRAWALS BY OWNERS 

Two Bohemian glass vases, lent in 1928, were withdrawn by the 
owner, Mrs, Robert Lee Preston, on August 2, 1946. 

A collection of 22 pieces of porcelain and bronzes, lent in 1918, was 
withdrawn by the owner, Mrs. Geraldine L. Hitchcock, on April 3, 
1947. 

An oil painting, Portrait of Mrs. Stephen Decatur (Susan 
Wheeler) , by Gilbert Stuart, and four crayon drawings on paper, by 
Saint Memin, of Ann Decatur Pine, Capt. James McKnight, Capt. 
Stephen Decatur, Sr., and Ann Pine McKnight Decatur, lent in 1943, 
were withdrawn by the owner, Mrs. William F. Machold, on April 15, 
1947. 

An oil painting, Portrait of Hon. Charles Evans Hughes, by 
George Burroughs Torrey, lent in 1936, and a marble bust of Hon. 
Charles Evans Hughes, by Bryant Baker, lent in 1943, were with- 
drawn by the owner, Mr. Hughes, on May 21, 1947. 

Five oil paintings, Hildegarde, Poinsettia, Maternity, The Old 
Miniature, and Study of a Young Woman, by Wallace Bryant, and a 
photomechanical reproduction of The Age of Innocence, lent in 1916, 
were withdrawn by the owner, Wallace Bryant, on June 6, 1947. 

An oil painting, Portrait of Lt. Gen. Mark W. Clark, by M. Arnold 
Nash, lent in 1944, was withdrawn by the owner, Mrs. Mark W. Clark, 
on June 9, 1947. 

LOANS TO OTHER MUSEUMS AND ORGANIZATIONS 

An oil painting, Portrait of Stephen Decatur, by Gilbert Stuart, 
was lent to M. Knoedler & Co., Inc., New York City, for their Wash- 
ington Irving Exhibition, October 8 to 26, 1946. (Returned October 
29, 1946.) 

Two oil paintings. Old Church at Giverny, and La Vachere, by 
Theodore Robinson, were lent to the Brooklyn Museum, Brooklyn, 
N. Y., to be included in an exhibition of the work of the artist, Novem- 
ber 12, 1946, to January 5, 1947. 

Two plaster busts (bronzed), George Washington, and Thomas 
Jefferson, by Houdon, and four vases, were lent to The White House 
December 3, 1946, for an indefinite period. 

An oil painting. Portrait of Herbert Hoover, by Edmund C. Tar- 
bell, was lent to The Century Association for an exhibition of portraits 
of members who were Presidents of the United States, January 9 to 
February 16, 1947. (Returned February 27, 1947.) 

Two oil paintings, Entrance to the Harbor, and Groton Long Point 
Dunes, by Henry Ward Ranger, and four miniatures, Mrs. Putnam 



42 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947 

Catlin and Portrait of a Man, by George Catlin, and John Trumbull 
Ray and Portrait of a Gentleman, by Thomas S. Cummings, were lent 
to the Lyman Allyn Museum, New London, Conn., to be included in 
their Fifteenth Anniversary Exhibition, Eighty Eminent Painters of 
Connecticut, March 9 to April 20, 1947. (Returned April 28, 1947.) 

An oil painting, The Signing of the Treaty of Ghent, 1814, by Sir 
Amedee Forestier, was lent April 3, 1947, to the Committee on Un- 
American Activities, to be hung in its committee room for an indefinite 
period. 

Two oil paintings. At Nature's Mirror, and Sunset, Navarro Ridge, 
California Coast, by Ralph Albert Blakelock, were lent to the Whitney 
Museum of American Art, New York City, to be included in an ex- 
hibition of paintings by the artist, April 21 through May 29, 1947. 
(Returned June 6, 1947.) 

LOANS RETURNED 

An oil painting, Fired On, by Frederic Remington, lent to The White 
House, June 7, 1945, was returned July 17, 1946. 

THE HENRY WARD RANGER FUND 

No. 69. Soutli Dakota Evening, by Jes W. Sclilaikjer, A. N. A. 
( 1897- ) , previously assigned to Vassar College, Poughkeepsie, N. Y., 
was reassigned November 21, 1946, to San Joaquin Pioneer and His- 
torical Society, Stockton, Calif. 

The following two paintings were recalled for action on the part 
of the Smithsonian Art Commission, in accordance with the provision 
in the Ranger bequest. The Smithsonian Art Commission decided not 
to accept the paintings and they were returned to the museums to 
which they were originally assigned: 

No. 7. The Shrine of the Rain Gods, by E. Irving Couse, N. A. (1866-1936), 
assigned to the Toledo Museum of Art, Toledo, Ohio. 

No. 112. Medieval Art, by Edwin H. Blashfield, N. A. (1848-1936), assigned 
to the William Rockliill Nelson Gallery of Art, Kansas Oity, Mo. 

THE NATIONAL COLLECTION OF FINE ARTS REFERENCE LIBRART 

A total of 405 publications (255 volumes and 150 pamplilets) were 
accessioned. This number includes 162 volumes and 41 pamphlets 
purchased, the priced auction catalogs of the Parke-Bernet Galleries 
accounting for 44 volumes and 32 pamphlets. The other accessions 
were publications received by exchange, gift, or transfer. The year's 
additions brought the total library accessions to 10,540, plus the vol- 
umes of serials formerly accessioned by the Museum Library for the 
National Gallery of Art, now the National Collection of Fine Arts. 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 43 

SPECIAL EXHIBITIONS 

June 28 through Jxdy £1, 1946. — Exhibition of 33 pieces of sculpture 
in bronze, marble, obsidian, wood, and stone, by Francisco Albert, of 
Mexico, held under the patronage of His Excellency, Sefior Dr. Don. 
Antonio de los Monteros, the Mexican Ambassador to the United 
States. A catalog was privately printed. 

July 3 through i?i, lOIfi. — Exhibition of 72 Swedish wartime car- 
toons, sponsored by the American Scandinavian Foundation and the 
Sverige-Amerika Stiftelsen. 

August 10 through September £5, 1946. — Smithsonian Centennial 
Exhibition. The National Collection of Fine Arts endeavored to 
honor those who had contributed to its collections, with examples of 
their gifts. About 50 specimens, covering 100 years, were shown. 

October 3 through November 3, 1946. — An oil painting, Portrait of 
President Harry S. Truman, by John Slavin, of Richmond, Va., was 
shown in Gallery 2. 

October 9 through 29^ 1946.— The Fifty-sixth Annual Exhibition of 
the Society of Washington Artists, consisting of 103 specimens of 
paintings and sculpture. 

November 6 through 29, 1946. — ^The Ninth Metropolitan State Art 
Contest, held under the auspices of the District of Columbia Chapter, 
American Artist's Professional League, assisted by the Entre Nous 
Club, consisting of 299 specimens of paintings, sculpture, prints, 
ceramics, and metalcraft. 

December 12, WJfi, through January 12, i547.— The Forty-fifth An- 
nual Exhibition of Miniatures by The Pennsylvania Society of Minia- 
ture Painters, consisting of 73 miniatures. Reprint of catalog used in 
Philadelphia. 

March 7 through 30, 194.7.— The Fifty-first Annual Exhibition of 
the Washington Water Color Club, consisting of 258 paintings and 
prints. A catalog was privately printed. 

March 7 through 30, 1947. — The Fourteenth Annual Exhibition of 
The Miniature Painters, Sculptors and Gravers Society of Washington, 
D. C, consisting of 144 examples. A catalog was privately printed. 

April 10 through 30, 1947. — Exhibition of 18 paintings, 4 pieces of 
sculpture, and photographs, by Hugh Almaraz, of Bolivia, was held 
under the patronage of His Excellency, the Ambassador of Bolivia and 
Senora de Martinez Vargas, and the Pan American Union. A catalog 
was printed by the Pan American Union. 

Jum£ 4- through 29, 1947. — Exhibition of 29 Hawaiian Flower Panels 
in pastel, by Maurice Kidjel, was held under the patronage of the Dele- 
gate to Congress from Hawaii and Mrs. Joseph R. Farrington. A 
catalog was privately printed. 



44 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947 

The writer, who for some years had been Acting Director, was ap- 
pointed Director of the National Collection of Fine Arts on July 28, 
1946. 

Respectfully submitted. 

R. P. ToLMAN, Director. 

Dr. a. Wbtmore, 

Secretai^, Smithsonian Institution. 



APPENDIX 4 

KEPOKT ON THE FREER GALLERY OF ART 

Sir : I have the honor to submit the twenty-seventh annual report 
on the Freer Gallery of Art for the year ended June 30, 1947. 

THE COLLECTIONS 

Additions to the collections by purchase were as follows : 



4G.18. Chinese (Ordos), Han dynasty (207 B. C.-A. D. 220). Hemispherical bowl 
with slightly everted lip; brown patina with areas of malachite and 
earthy encrustation; welded to one side is a flat horizontal handle on 
which stands the figure of a mule cast in the round. 0.106 x 0.182 x 
0.128. 

46.31. Chinese, Shang dynasty (1766-1122 B. C). Ceremonial vessel of the type 
ting, light grayish-green patina with some encrustation ; areas of mala- 
chite, azurite, and cuprite inside ; decorated with casting in intaglio and 
relief; inscription of three characters. (Illustrated.) 0.354 x 0.282. 

47.1. Chinese, 4th-3d century B. C. Folding bronze tripodal stand in three 
parts; decorated with gold and silver inlay. 0.574 (over all, folded). 

GLASS 

46.29. Chinese, T'ang dynasty (A. D. 618-906). Oblate bowl with broad base 
smaller mouth, thickened lip, and deeply concave base ; thick green glass, 
surface ground on outside except for small transparent area in center 
of base ; inside roughened and iridescent with deterioration ; rust stain 
on base. 0.080 x 0.147. 

GOLD 

46.20- Chinese, T'ang dynasty (A. D. 618-906). Pair of Apsarases modeled in 

46.21. the round in flying position with flowing robes; scarves and jeweled 
streamers in filigree work around bodies; crowns and floral necklaces; 
extended hands hold lotus flowers; ears pierced for earrings; each on 
an intricate filigree cloud pattern support. 0.037 x 0.088 x 0.027 ; 0.037 
X 0.081 X 0.024. 

46.22. Chinese, Six dynasties period (A. D. 26.5-589). Pair of plaques, each a 

thin sheet of gold with a winged horse in repoussd relief ; vine patterns 
in background and double border of V pattern; fragments of plaster 
adhering to reverse side of each. 0.075 x 0.120 x 0.019 ; 0.075 x 0.120 x 
0.016. 



47.10. Chinese, 5th-3d century B. C. Cylindrical covered cup of Kotan nephrite ; 
supported on three small feet ; annular handle on one side ; decoration 
carved in relief and Intaglio; three small coiled dragons on cover. 
(Illustrated.) 0.170 x 0.098. 

45 



46 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947 

MAJTOSCBIFl' 

46.12. Persian, A. D. 1556-1565. Haft Awrang ("Seven Thrones"), the seven 
mathnavi poems of Jami ; book of 303 folios plus 1 added folio ; 28 minia- 
tiare paintings in gold and color ; illuminated headpieces, tailpieces, and 
space fillers; margins of various colors with bird and flower patterns 
in red and gold ; repairs on some pages ; lacquered binding 19th century. 
0.342 X 0.232 (page size), 

47.2. Armenian, A. D. 10th century. Page from a Gospel manuscript on parch- 

ment ; canon tables on both sides ; brown-black writing and decorations 
in red, yellow, and purple ; torn and stained on edges. 0.328 x 0.246. 

47.3. Armenian, A. D. 10th century. Page from a Gospel manuscript on parch- 

ment ; on reverse : canon table ; on obverse : the four evangelists standing 
in arches ; brown-black writing and decorations in red, yellow, and 
purple; torn and stained on edges. 0.334 x 0.251. 
47.4 Armenian, A. D. 10th century. Page from a Gospel manuscript on parch- 
ment ; canon tables on both sides ; browu-bluck writing and decoration in 
red, yellow, and purple ; torn and stained on edges. 0.329 x 0.248. 

47.6 Persian, A. D. 1557. Leaf from Yusuf u-Zulaikha by Jami ; Persian text in 

small nasta'liq script ; manuscript leaf inlaid in larger leaf of red-brown 
paper with border designs in gold ; recto : horses in rock landscape ; 
verso : floral scrolls with feline heads devouring antelopes ; wormholes 
and small tears along two edges. 0.251 x 0.248. 

47.7 Persian, A. D. 1557. Leaf from Yusuf u-ZulaiJcha by Jami ; Persian text in 

small nasta'liq script ; manuscript leaf inlaid in larger leaf of grayish- 
brown paper with border designs in gold ; recto : floral scrolls and 
arabesques ; verso : lions, foxes, and birds in landscape ; wormholes. 
0.252 X 0.149. 

PAINTING 

46.13. Persian, A, D. middle 16th century. Winter scene: Sufi and courtier 
conversing at a shrine ; color; three lines of nasta'liq script in upper left 
corner ; set in an old album mount with floral designs and writing in red 
nastaTiq script. 0.328 x 0.226. 
46.14 Persian, A. D. 1341, Mongol (Il-Khan) period, Inju school. Leaf from a 
manuscript of Mu'nis al-Ahrdr fl Daqd'iq al-Ash'ar: The Moon and 
Fish ; 12 different kinds of birds in two registers ; text in black ruiskhi 
script ; paper torn and colors rubbed in places ; old repairs and modern 
margin. 0.195 x 0.134. 
46.16 Persian, A. D. middle 14th century, Mongol (Tl-Khan) period, Injii school. 
Leaf from a Shdndmah : Arzu, the jeweler's daughter plays before Bah- 
ram Gur ; colors and gold ; paint on three faces rubbed off ; text in black 
nashi script; red rulings; marginal additions in nasta'liq. 0.290 x 
0.209. 
46.17. Indian, Akbar period (A. D. 1556-1605), Mughal. Lion hunt in a moun- 
tainous landscape; colors and gold; cut-out passages in nasta'liq script 
around painting; on reverse: four lines of Persian poetry in nasta'liq 
script ; slightly torn ; bits of paint chipped off. 0.186 x 0.106. 
46.26 Persian, Timurid period (A. D. ca. 1425-1450), Samarquand school, 
Ulugh Beg with ladies of his harem and retainers ; colors and gold ; six 
lines of Persian poetry in nasta'liq script in lower left corner; cuts and 
breaks in paper. (Illustrated.) 0.317 x 0.241. 



Secretary's Report, 1947.— Appendix 4 




Plate 1 



¥^ 



I:- 



.^— UzzJU 



46.26 




46.30 

RECENT ADDITIONS TO THE COLLECTION OF THE FREER GALLERY OF ART 



Secretary's Report. 1947.— Appendix 4 



PLATE 2 




47.10 




46.31 

RECENT ADDITIONS TO THE COLLECTION OF THE FREER GALLERY OF ART 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 47 

46.27. Indian, Rajput period (A. D. 17th century), Rajasthani, probably Jaipur 
school. Woman holding a vind and flower under a tree with a deer, 
attracted by the music, in front of her ; drawing in black on yellowish 
paper ; on reverse : small drawing of bust of a woman in black and gold ; 
small stains, tears, and some flaking. 0.166 x 0.113. 
46.28 Indian, Mughal period (A. D. ca. 1619), school of Jahanglr. Durbar scene 
of Jahanglr ; colors and gold ; mounted on an album leaf ; two inscriptions 
and identification notes ; slight flaking. 0.169 x 0.123. 
47.5. Arabic (Mesopotamia), A. D. 1224. Baghdad school. lUusti-ation from 
an Arabic manuscript of the Materia Medica of Dioscorides; the Greek 
physician Erasistratos lying on a low bench with an assistant standing 
in front of him; opaque colors and gold; text on both sides in naskht 
script ; a few wormholes and tears. 0.322 x 0.248. 

PAINTING AND MANUSCBIPT 

46.15. Persian, A. D. 16th-17th century. Composite leaf consisting of a drawing of 
Dancing Sufis by Ustad Muhammadi of Herat, a painting of A Cluster of 
Primroses by Murad, a page of prose in nasta'Uq script, and a page of 
poetry in nasta'liq by Shah Mahmud ; old album mounting with floral 
decoration in gold. 0.450 x 0.303. 

POTTEBT 

46.24. Chinese, Ch'ing dynasty, Yung-cheng period (A. D. 1723-1736). Small 

bottle-shaped vase with tall neck and flaring lip ; white porcelain covered 
with pale opaque blue-gray glaze called "claire de lune" ; brown dressing 
on raw footrim; four-character mark in underglaze blue on base. 
0.101 X 0.070. 

46.25. Chinese, Yiian dynasty (A. D. 127&-1368), Lung-ch'iian. Vase with oc- 

tagonal body, spreading foot, swelling body, and short tapering neck; 
grayish-white porcelain covered with thick opaque gray-green crackled 
glaze inset with 24 panels of reddish-brown biscuit showing human figures 
and floral patterns molded in relief. 0.275 x 0.175. 
46.30. Egyptian, Fa timid period (A. D. llth-12th century) . Bowl on low foot rim ; 
soft, flne-grained reddish clay covered with white tin glaze ; decorated, 
inside : a dancing girl in yellow gold luster ; outside : irregular circles and 
markings in reddish luster now partly rubbed off; repairs, five missing 
sherds replaced by painted plaster. (Illustrated.) 0.067x0.261. 

47.8. Mesopotamian, A. D. 12th century, Rakka. Bowl with wide everted rim 

and low foot ; coarse whitish clay covered with transparent green glaze ; 
decorations under glaze painted in black on white slip showing a heron; 
repairs, two pieces of rim missing. 0.076 x 0.266. 

47.9. Persian, Mongol period (about A. D. 1300), Sultanabad. Deep bowl with 

wide horizontal rim flange and foot rim ; grayish medium-grained clay 
covered with clear transparent glaze over decoration in black outline and 
brown slip showing a running gazelle; lower body and foot unglazed; 
two small repairs on rim flange. 0.148 x 0.270. 



46.19. Chinese, Han dynasty (207 B. C.-A. D. 220). Plaque of solid, low-grade 
silver; rough and tarnished; obverse shows a leaping wolflike dog cast 
in relief; reverse is rough and pitted with bits of earth and malachite in 
some cavities. 0.099 x 0.157 x 0.013. 



48 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 194 7 

The work of the staff members has been devoted to the study of new 
accessions, of objects submitted for purchase, and to general research 
work within the collections of Chinese, Japanese, Arabic, Persian, 
and Indian materials. The preparation of materials for publication 
has continued. Reports, oral or written, were made upon 3,679 ob- 
jects and 1,511 reproductions of objects submitted for examination; 
and 353 Oriental language inscriptions were translated. 

REPAIRS TO THE COLLECTIONS 

A total of 27 objects were remounted or repaired as follows : 

Chinese calligraphy I'emounted 1 

Chinese paintings remounted 7 

Japanese paintings remounted 12 

East Christian painting remounted 1 

Persian miniature remounted 1 

Greek manuscript pages repaired 2 

Indian painting repaired 1 

Japanese painting repaired 1 

Persian painting repaired 1 

CHANGES IN EXHIBITIONS 

Eight hundred forty-four changes in exhibitions were made as 
follows : 

American arts : 

Etchings 15 

Lithographs 15 

Byzantine arts : 

Gold 24 

Rock crystal 3 

Bactrian arts : Metalwork 4 

Chinese arts : 

Bamboo wood carving 6 

Bronze 101 

Gold 11 

Iron and gold 2 

Jade 49 

Lacquer 3 

Painting 124 

Pottery 230 

Silver 2 

Stone sculpture 4 

Textile 2 

Christian arts: 

Armenian manuscripts 25 

Armenian manuscript pages 8 

Coptic manuscript pages 6 

Greek manuscripts 10 

Greek manuscript pages 18 

Greek painting 13 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 49 

Indian arts : 

Bronze 1 

Manuscript pages 2 

Paintings 101 

Stone sculpture 3 

Japanese arts: Painting 6 

Korean arts: Pottery 23 

Persian arts : 

Gold 2 

Metalwork 14 

Syrian arts : 

Brass 5 

Glass 13 

In connection with the Centennial celebration of the Smithsonian 
Institution a special exhibition showing representative examples of 
Chinese art from the Neolithic age to the eighteenth century was 
assembled in Gallery XIII from the material in the collections. A 
special Gallery Book accompanied this exhibition. 

In connection with the Symposium on Byzantine Studies held at the 
Dumbarton Oaks Research Library and Collection a special exhibition 
of late classical and early Christian art was assembled in Gallery VI 
from materials in the collections. 

STUDY COLLECTIONS 

A notable addition to the study collections of the Smithsonian Insti- 
tution was the material given by Dr. Ernst Herzfeld, of Princeton, 
N. J. This gift, known as the Herzfeld Archive, was made to the 
Smithsonian Institution with proviso that it be deposited in, and held 
under the direction of, the Freer Gallery of Art, but not to be consid- 
ered a part of the Freer Collection. Dr. Herzfeld's letter of trans- 
mittal to Dr. Wetmore was dated April 24, 1946, and the material 
reached the Gallery on June 6 ; but the time required to unpack the 
cases and make a preliminary check of the contents prevented its inclu- 
sion in the annual report dated July 1, 1946. 

The material was collected by Dr. Herzfeld between the years 
1903 and 1936 in the course of archeological expeditions to the Near 
East which included excavations at Samarra, Sistan, F'asargadae, and 
Persepolis. While a detailed catalog has yet to be completed, the 
following brief list suggests the scope and nature of the Archive : 

1. 80 wooden boxes containing 50 negatives each. Catalog of the nega- 

tives. 16 files of blueprints. 

2. Several hundred large drawings, water colors, plans and maps of Oriental 

buildings, sculpture, objects of art, etc, A number of squeezes of 
inscriptions. 

3. 45 sketchbooks of original surveys made in the field. A number of box 

files with notes, texts of inscriptions, inventories, dummies for publica- 
tions, etc. 



50 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947 

4. 95 objects including jiottery and metalwork of no special material value, 
but of some scientific interest. 

It is the donor's wish that these materials be used for study and 
publication by members of the Institution staff and other qualified 
scholars, and that the objects be available for exhibition in the Institu- 
tion at the discretion of the Director of the Freer Gallery of Art. 

ATTENDANCE 

The Gallery was open to the public from 9 to 4 : 30 every day 
except Christmas Day. The total number of visitors to come in 
the main entrance was 107,237. The weekday total was 80,031, and 
the Sunday total was 27,206. The average weekday attendance was 
256, the average Sunday attendance, 523. The highest monthly at- 
tendance was in April with 15,794 visitors; the lowest, in February 
with 4,053 visitors. 

There were 1,915 visitors to the main office during the year; the 
purposes of their visits were as follows : 

For general information 1, 559 

To see staff members 96 

To read in the library 250 

To make sketches and tracings from library books 9 

To see building and installations 18 

To make photographs in Court and sketches in the exhibition 

galleries 27 

To examine, borrow, or purchase photographs and slides 389 

To submit objects for examination 471 

To see objects in storage : 

Washington Manuscripts 49 

Far Eastern paintings and textiles 74 

Near Eastern paintings and manuscripts 28 

Tibetan paintings 5 

Indian paintings and manuscripts 9 

American paintings 28 

American pottery 3 

Whistler prints 19 

Oriental pottery, jade, bronze, lacquer, and bamboo 83 

Gold treasure and Byzantine objects 15 

All sculpture 10 

Syrian and other glass 4 

327 

DOCENT SERVICE, LECTURES, MEITTINGS 

By request, 10 groups met in the exhibition galleries for instruction 
by staff members. Total attendance was 183. 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 51 

On invitation, tlie following lectures were given outside the Gallery 
by staff members : 

Jan. 29 Mr. Pope read a paper on A Chinese Lacquer Statue in the 

Nepalese Style (45.4) before the Far Eastern Section 
of the College Art Association at the Metropolitan 
Museum of Art, New York. Attendance: 100. 

Mar. 10 Dr. Ettinghausen lectured on Basic Facts about Oriental 

Rugs at the Women's Community Club, Kensington, Md. 
Attendance: 121. 

Mar. 17 Dr. Ettinghausen lectured on Persian Miniature Painting 

at the Foxcroft School, Middleburg, Va. Attendance: 
115. 

Mar. 25 Dr. Ettinghausen lectured on Islamic Art : New Ap- 
proaches in Research at the Princeton University Bi- 
centennial Conference on Near Eastern Culture and 
Society, Princeton, N. J. Attendance : 65. 

Apr. 10 Mr. Pope lectured on The Freer Gallery of Art and its 

Collections at the American Association of University 
Women, Washington, D. C. Attendance: 30. 

The Auditorium was used for meetings as follows : 

19i6 

Oct. 9 Bureau of Economics, U. S. Department of Agriculture. 

Attendance: 250. 
Oct. 10 Bureau of Economics, U. S. Department of Agriculture. 

Attendance: 275. 
Oct. 11 Bureau of Economics, U. S. Department of Agriculture. 

Attendance: 260. 
Nov. 20 Office of the Attorney General, Conference on the Control 

of Juvenile Delinquency. Attendance: 63. 
Nov. 21 Office of the Attorney General, Conference on the Control 

of Juvenile Delinquency. Attendance : 50. 
Dec. 3 Dr. John L. Keddy, Assistant Secretary, Smithsonian 

Institution. Attendance: 28. 

Apr. 15 American Oriental Society, Annual Meeting. Attendance: 

106. 
Apr. 16 American Oriental Society, Annual Meeting. Attendance: 

83. 
Apr. 17 American Oriental Society, Annual Meeting. Attendance: 

46. 

Members of the staff traveled outside of Washington for professional 
purposes as follows : 

19f,6 

Sept 30-Oct. 23 Mr. Pope in Chicago, Kansas City, Minneapolis, Ann Arbor, 

Boston, Cambridge, and New York to examine objects 
belonging to museums, private collections, and dealers. 

Nov. 4-13 Mr. Wenley in Chicago, Kansas City, Minneapolis, and 

Ann Arbor to examine objects belonging to museums, 
private collections, and dealers. 



52 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947 

19i7 

Jan. 28-Feb. 9 Dr. Ettinghausen in New York and Boston to examine 

objects belonging to museums and dealers. 

Mar. 17-21 Mr, Wenley in New York to examine objects belonging to 

dealers. 

Mar. 24-28 Dr. Ettinghausen attended Near Eastern Conference of the 

University Bicentennial Celebration at Princeton Uni- 
versity. 

Mar. 31-Apr. 3 Mr. Wenley attended the Conference on Far Eastern Art 

and Culture at the Bicentennial Celebration of Princeton 
University where he served as Chairman of the Con- 
ference on Chinese Painting. 

Mar. 31-Apr. 3 Mr. Pope attended the Conference on Far Eastern Art and 

Culture at Princeton. 

Apr. 3 Mr. Acker attended the Conference on Far Eastern Art 

and Culture at Princeton. 

Apr. 21 Dr. Ettinghausen in New York to examine objects belong- 
ing to dealers. 

Apr. 22-23 Dr. Ettinghausen in Princeton, N. J., to attend conference 

on Research in Fine Arts. 

Apr. 24 Dr. Ettinghausen in Baltimore to attend oi)ening of exhibi- 
tion of Byzantine Art at Baltimore Museum. 

May 14 Dr. Ettinghausen at Walters Art Gallery, Baltimore, to 

examine objects in the collection. 

May 23 Mr. Pope in Philadelphia to examine objects in the Phila- 
delphia Museum of Art. 

June 9-13 Mrs. Usilton, Librarian, attended annual convention of 

Special Libraries Association, Chicago, 111. 

June 19-20 Mr. Pope at Fogg Museum of Art, Cambridge, Mass., to 

study bronze forgeries and examine objects in the collec- 
tion. 

June 29-July 4 Mrs. Usilton attended annual convention of American 

Library Association, San Francisco, Calif. 

John A. Pope, Associate in Research, was appointed Assistant Di- 
rector, July 1, 1946. 
Respectfully submitted. 

A. G. Wenley, Director. 

Dr. A. Wetmore, 

Secretary, Smithsonian Institution. 



APPENDIX 5 

KEPORT ON THE BUREAU OF AMERICAN ETHNOLOGY 

Sir : I have the honor to submit the following report on the field 
researches, office work, and other operations of the Bureau of Ameri- 
can Ethnology during the fiscal year ended June 30, 1947, conducted 
in accordance with the Act of Congress of June 27, 1944, which 
provides "* * * for continuing ethnological researches among 
the American Indians and the natives of Hawaii and the excavation 
and preservation of archeologic remains. * * *" 

SYSTEMATIC RESEARCHES 

Dr. M. W. Stirling, Chief of the Bureau, spent the greater part 
of the fiscal year in Washington, attending to administrative duties 
and completing for publication reports on archeological field work 
in southern Mexico. Two papers were completed entitled "An 
Archeological Reconnaissance of the State of Tabasco, Mexico," and 
"Piedra Parada, a Chiapas Highland Site." Considerable progress 
was also made on a paper entitled "Additional Stone Monuments 
of Southern Mexico." 

Several lectures were given during the year on anthropological 
subjects. In April 1947 Dr. Stirling went to Houston, Tex., as 
representative of the Smithsonian Institution at the Inauguration of 
Dr. Wm. Vermilion Houston as President of Rice Institute. 

Dr. Frank H. H. Roberts, Jr., Associate Chief of the Bureau and 
Director of the River Basin Surveys, devoted the major part of his 
time during the fiscal year to directing the program of the River 
Basin Surveys. The latter is a cooperative project between the 
Smithsonian Institution, the National Park Service, the Bureau of 
Reclamation, and the Corps of Engineers, United States Army. Its 
purpose is the recovery of such archeological and paleontological 
information and materials as will be lost through the construction 
of dams and the creation of large reservoirs in many of the river 
valleys of the United States. 

In directing the survey work Dr. Roberts recruited personnel, 
arranged for supplies and equipment, established cooperation with 
local institutions in various parts of the country, prepared over-all 
plans for a Nation-wide archeological program, wrote progress re- 
ports for the cooperating agencies, and aided in the preparation of 
preliminary reports on the results of surveys in various reservoir 

53 



54 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947 

areas. He went to Atlanta, Ga., July 23-25, 1946, to confer with 
representatives of the National Park Service and engineers in the 
office of the Division Engineer for the South Atlantic Division, Corps 
of Engineers, about the problems in that area. He went to Lincoln, 
Nebr., September 24 to October 4, to meet the incoming field parties 
from the Missouri Basin. At that time he received reports on the 
explorations, discussed plans for future investigations, and assisted 
in making arrangements for carrying on the work at the field head- 
quarters during the fall and winter months. While at Lincoln he 
made two trips to Omaha to confer with officials of the National 
Park Service, Region 2, and engineers from the office of the Division 
Engineer, Missouri Eiver Division, Corps of Engineers. From De- 
cember 26 to 31, he was in Chicago, 111., to take part in a symposium 
on river valley archeology in which there were representatives from 
the National Park Service, the American Anthropological Associa- 
tion, the Society for American Archeology, the Conunittee for the 
Recovery of Archeological Remains, and several universities. Dr. 
Roberts' report on the activities of the River Basin Surveys appears 
in subsequent pages. 

During the course of the year Dr. Roberts wrote several book 
reviews for anthropological journals, annotated four books for the 
United States Quarterly Book List, prepared a number of popular 
articles on the work of the River Basin Surveys, and served as a con- 
sultant on manuscripts on anthropology and archeology for several 
encyclopedias. 

Dr. Roberts was the General Department Representative on the 
Efficiency Rating Board of Review for the Smithsonian Institution. 
In this connection he attended the Civil Service Commission Institute 
of Efficiency Rating Boards of Review. He represented the Smith- 
sonian Institution at a meeting held in Washington, D. C, April 15, 
1947, for the purpose of organizing a National Council for Historic 
Sites and Buildings. 

From July 1, 1946, to June 30, 1947, Dr. Roberts served as a member 
of the executive committee of the Division of Anthropology and 
Psychology, National Research Council. 

During the absences of the Chief, Dr. Roberts was Acting Chief of 
the Bureau. 

The beginning of the fiscal year foimd Dr. John P. Harrington, 
ethnologist, at Searchlight, Nev., from which point he traveled with 
Murl Emery to a point above Cottonwood Island in one of the wildest 
portions of the Colorado River where, according to Indian tradition, is 
the house of Matavilya, principal deity of the lower Colorado region. 
The house of Matavilya was discovered to be a natural formation con- 
sisting of a butte about 200 feet high on the western side of the river, 
and opposite this butte another, perhaps 500 feet in height, on the 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 55 

eastern side of the river. These two buttes are interpreted b}- the 
ancient Indians of the region as being what remains of the doorposts 
of the house of Matavilya, and Indian tradition has evidently attached 
itself to this phice for many generations, probably for many centuries. 
The interesting myth was obtained which recounts the destruction 
of the house at the time of the cremation of Matavilya. Consider- 
able time was spent in checking with surviving ancient Indians in 
regard to the discovery of this important site, Dr. Harrington going as 
far as Tehachapi, Calif., for this purpose. 

On November 6, 1946, Dr. Harrington returned to Washington, 
D. C, and the entire remainder of the fiscal year was spent in sorting 
over and preparing various articles for publication. 

The first of these undertakings was the preparation of an article on 
the State Names of Mexico. This paper covers not only the state 
and territory names of Mexico, but also the country names of Central 
America and South America. Several of the etymologies are new, 
notably that of the name of the Mexican State of Yucatan, which 
is here seen to be derived perhaps from a hypothetical form Yucahtan. 
The next item completed was an article on the Tewa language of 
New Mexico. A paper on the Province Names of Canada was next 
finished. Compilation for this work had long been in progress, part 
of it done in Canada. 

An extensive paper on the Aleutian language was next written, 
embodying the results of previous field work in Alaska. Another 
paper was prepared consisting of a detailed ethnogeographic descrip- 
tion of the projecting rocks and islands off the coast of California. 

A manuscript was completed with the title "Quirix is the Native 
Name of San Felipe Pueblo." This paper sets forth the unique thesis 
that Bandelier is wrong in assuming that Quirix, which gives its name 
to the Keresan linguistic stock, is Bernalillo, or any site in the vicinity 
of Bernalillo, but that the recorded form is a Spanish spelling of the 
Indian name of San Felij)e. Tlie Tewa of the Castaiieda account of 
the Coronado Expedition would then be Isleta, and Isleta is still called 
Tewa in Keresan. 

A number of short papers were also written, the titles being as 
follows : 

The Name Yucatan. 

The Name Colorado. 

The Three Earliest Mentions of the Turquoise Mines of New Mexico. 

The Name Chuckwalla. 

Rita, a Short-Cut for Saying Riito. 

De Alarcon has the Name of Zunyi Salt Lake. 

Olivella River, the Old Name of Santa Fe Creek. 

Trail Holder. 

H'aak'o, Original Keresan Name of Acoma. 

777488—48 5 



56 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947 

Dr. Henry B. Collins, ethnologist, continued his investigations in 
Eskimo anthropology. During the winter he completed the number- 
ing and cataloging of his collection of some 7,000 archeological speci- 
mens excavated at Cape Prince of Wales and other prehistoric Eskimo 
village sites around Bering Strait. 

At the February meeting of the Board of Governors of the Arctic 
Institute of North America, Dr. Collins was elected vice chairman of 
the Institute. His article. The Origin and Antiquity of the Eskimo, 
tracing the Old World affiliations of the Eskimo culture and race type, 
will appear as one of the chapters of a general book on the Arctic to be 
published by the Arctic Institute. 

In May Dr. Collins was appointed Chairman of the Directing Com- 
mittee for the Arctic Bibliography and Koster, two separate projects 
which the Arctic Institute of North America is carrying out under 
contract for the Office of Naval Research of the Navy Department. 
In these projects the Arctic Institute is receiving active cooperation 
and assistance from the Library of Congress and the National Re- 
search Council. Officials of the latter organizations, and representa- 
tives of the Navy, Army, and Board of Governors of the Arctic Insti- 
tute comprise the directing committee, which serves as a policy and 
advisory body with the responsibility of organizing and supervising 
the work on the two projects. The bibliography project will be con- 
ducted by four experienced bibliographers, with clerical assistants, 
working in the principal libraries in the United States and Canada. 
It will have as its objective the compilation of an annotated, fully 
indexed bibliography covering the descriptive, geographical, and 
other scientific literature on the Arctic from the earliest historical 
writings to those of the present time. It is estimated that the bibli- 
ography project will require at least 3 years for completion. The 
Roster of Arctic Specialists, a 2-year project, is to be conducted by a 
staff of three workers, headed by a former official of the National 
Roster of Scientific and Specialized Personnel. The roster will be 
patterned after the National Roster and the World Roster of Area 
and Language Specialists compiled by the Ethnogeographic Board 
during the war. Its purpose will be to assemble a comprehensive 
record of the experience and specialized knowledge of scientists, ex- 
plorers, writers, and Arctic residents who possess first-hand informa- 
tion of value concerning the Arctic and sub- Arctic regions. 

Dr. Collins wrote the article Anthropology for the 1947 Encyclo- 
paedia Britannica Book of the Year, He also served as anthro- 
pological consultant for the Encyclopedia Arctica, which is being edited 
by Dr. Vilhjalmur Stefansson for the Navy Department. In this 
capacity he organized the anthropological sections of the Encyclo- 
pedia and contributed several articles on archeological subjects. 



REPORT or THE SECRETARY 57 

In June Dr. Collins left Washington for Martha's Vineyard, Mass., 
to conduct a 6 weeks' archeological survej^ of the island. 

Returning to a study of the social organization and ceremonial life 
of the Seneca Nation commenced before the war, Dr. William N. Fen- 
ton, ethnologist, established field quarters on the Allegany Reserva- 
tion between July 1 and September 18, when he returned to Washing- 
ton. Observations made 10 years ago were repeated at meetings of 
two orders of the Medicine Society, and observing the Green Corn 
Festival for the fifth time afforded information on social and cultural 
change. At the behest of one of the chiefs, Dr. Fenton recorded from 
Fannie Stevens, matron of the Heron clan, several hundred personal 
names belonging to the eight Seneca clans. Recordings made in 1945 
for a forthcoming album of Seneca music were played repeatedly to 
the singers and interpreters to assure accuracy of texts. With a 
possible documentary film in mind, 700 feet of 16-mm. Kodachrome 
moving pictures were taken of various activities in the Coldspring 
community. An additional week of field work from October 7 to 12 
permitted verifying some of the personal names in genealogies taken 
in 1933. 

Cultural affinities between the northern Iroquoians and their 
southern cousins, the Clierokee of the Great Smoky Mountains, have 
occupied the attention of Bureau ethnologists since Mooney's time. 
At the invitation of Lester M. Hargrett, of Washington, the bibli- 
ographer of Indian Laws, Dr. Fenton motored to Cherokee, N. C, in 
early December. We owe a brief and intensive introduction to 
Cherokee ethnolog}^ to Will West Long, who was 17 when James 
Mooney came to Cherokee and whose name is associated with the work 
of every field ethnologist who ventured into Big Cove settlement from 
1887 until March 14, 1947, when Will passed away. 

Dr. Fenton obtained information for contrasting the Boogah Dance 
of the Cherokee with masked performances of the Iroquois False-face 
Society, and some additional details were collected on the Eagle Dance, 
a variant of the calumet ritual, which reached the Iroquois during the 
eighteenth century by one documented line of diffusion from the 
Catawba and Cherokee of the Southeast. When recordings of Cherokee 
and Seneca Eagle Dance songs are compared, it will develop that 
they are derived from a common source. Photographs were made of 
the Cherokee mask-making process, and some portraits of Mr. Long in 
characteristic Eagle Dance postures. A report of these findings has 
been prepared for publication. 

Two collections of Americana seen on this trip deserve mention. The 
MacGregor Collection in the Library of the University of Virginia 
contains some notable early items on American Indians. Dr. T. H. 
Spence, Librarian of the Historical Foundation of the Presbyterian 



58 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947 

Reformed Church, Montreat, N. C, called attention to an extremely 
rare pamplet which describes Chickasaw and Choctaw towns, locates 
certain mounds, and contains notes on pigeon roosts (A Brief History 
of the Mississippi Territory ; to Which is Prefixed a Summary View of 
the Country between the Settlements on Cumberland River, and the 
Territory, by Rev. James Hall, A. M., Salisbury (N. C.) : 12 mo., pp. 
(2) 70, printed by Francis Coupee, 1801). 

The second conference on Iroquois research, which Dr. Fenton 
organized in 1945, was again the outstanding event in Iroquois studies. 
The conference, held October 4, 5, and 6, in cooperation with the Al- 
legany State Park Commission at Red House, N. Y., brought together 
anthropologists and historians interested in the Iroquois from the 
Northeastern States, Canada, and the Middle West. Charles E. Cong- 
don of Salamanca, N. Y., and Merle H. Deardorff of Warren, Pa., were 
cohosts to the conference. 

Dr. Fenton gave several lectures during the year on topics related 
to his work; on September 10 to the L. H. Morgan Chapter, New 
York State Archaeological Association, Rochester ; October 15 to the 
Anthropological Society of Washington; December 12 to the Arts 
Club of Washington. 

A chapter was completed for a forthcoming report of the American 
Folklore Society: "Research in American Folklore: Plains, Eastern 
Woodlands, and Contact Folklore between Indians and Colonial 
Settlers." Seneca Songs from Coldspring Longhouse was prepared 
as program notes to an album of records which the Library of CongTes.s 
is publishing. Work was continued on a final draft of a report for 
the Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections, A Cajoiga Condolence 
Cane with Pictographs Denominating the Founders of the Iroquois 
League, a study which Dr. Fenton commenced several years ago at 
the request of the Cranbrook Institute of Science. 

As a member of the Committee on International Cooperation in 
Anthropology, National Research Council, Dr. Fenton attended two 
meetings in Washington, and prepared a report on Anthropology 
during the War, VII : The Arab World (American Anthropologist, 
1947, pp. 342-343). He relinquished secretaryship of the Anthropo- 
logical Society of Washington, becoming vice president, and continued 
to give considerable time to the Journal of the Washington Academy 
of Sciences, as senior editor during 1947. 

Publications. — Place names and related activities of the Cornplanter 
Senecas, V : The path to Conewango (Pennsylvania Archaeologist, vol. 
16, pp. 42-56, April 1946). 

Twi-yendagon (Woodeater) takes the heavenly path; on the death 
of Henry Redeye (1864?-1946), Speaker of the Coldspring Seneca 



REPORT OF TPIE SECRETARY 59 

Longhouse (American Indian, American Association on Indian 
Affairs, vol. 3, No. 3, pp. 11-15, 1946). 

Integration of Geography and Anthropology in Army Area Study 
Curricula (Bulletin American Association of University Professors, 
vol. 32, No. 4, pp. 696-706, winter, 1946). 

Area studies in American universities (Commission on Implica- 
tions, Armed Services Educational Programs, American Council on 
Education, xi + 89 pp., Washington, 1947). 

In addition, several reviews were prepared and published in the 
United States Quarterly Book List, and in other journals. 

Dr. Philip Drucker, anthropologist, returned to his official station 
at Washington from Mexico at the beginning of the fiscal year. While 
awaiting the arrival of the collections from San Lorenzo Tenochtitlan, 
he began a study of the La Venta ceramic collections, excavated by 
the National Geographic Society-Smithsonian Institution expedition 
in tlie spring of 1942. 

During the ensuing months he classified some 24,000 sherds from 
the site of La Venta, recording descriptive data and stratigraphic dis- 
tributions which will be embodied in the final report on the culture 
rei^resented at this key site of Olmec culture. At the conclusion of 
his study of these materials he prepared a brief paper entitled "Some 
Implications of La Venta Ceramics," for the Smithsonian Miscellane- 
ous Collections. 

On February 8, 1947, he proceeded from Washington to Mexico on a 
joint expedition of the National Geographic Society and the Smith- 
sonian Institution. The purpose of this expedition was to make an 
archeological survey of the Pacific coast of the state of Chiapas, 
Mexico. From the time of his arrival in Tapachula, Chiapas, on 
February 16, until his departure from Tonala, Chiapas, on May 24, 
he tested 15 archeological sites, obtaining from each collections of 
sherds ranging from 2,000 to 4,000 pieces on the average. Among 
these sites were several whose ceramics indicated a relationship with 
the Mixteca-Puebla area of the Highland, and which are probably to 
be attributed to the late pre-Conquest intrusions of the Nahuatl-speak- 
ing Pipil, colonies of whom penetrated as far southeastward as Nica- 
ragua. Other sites yielded wares that indicate affiliation with more 
ancient horizons, one such linking very definitely with the oldest ce- 
ramic complex yet known from Guatemala Highland and coast : the 
Miraflores horizon. One of the outstanding finds of the survey was the 
discovery of a midden deposit over 3 meters in depth, containing pot- 
tery in the upper 1.2 m., and no trace of ceramics below this point. This 
site requires more extensive excavation than was possible during the 
survey, but it is quite possible that it may contain the earliest remains 
yet known from southern Mexico and Central America — perhaps pre- 



60 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947 

ceramic and early ceramic horizons whose existence up to now has 
only been suspected but never demonstrated. 

In the month of March, during the survey work, Dr. Drucker made 
a brief visit to Guatemala City where, through the courtesy of Drs. 
R. E. Smith and Edwin Shook of the Carnegie Institution, he was 
permitted to study pottery collections from the Guatemala Highlands 
and coast, in the Carnegie Institution Laboratory. 

From Tonala, Dr. Drucker proceeded to Mexico City to arrange for 
the exportation of the collections. 

On Jane 9 Dr. Drucker arrived in Washington, D. C, where he 
was detailed to the River Basin Surveys project, under the direction 
of Dr. Frank H. H. Roberts, Jr., Associate Chief of the Bureau of 
American Ethnology. After a series of conferences with Dr. Roberts, 
Dr. Drucker proceeded on June 16 to the Pacific coast to take charge of 
archeological work in areas to be inundated by Bureau of Reclamation 
and Corps of Engineers dams in that area. 

From July 1 through September 1 Dr. Gordon R. Willey, anthro- 
pologist, continued his field investigations, begun in March of 1946, 
as a member of the Viru Valley Expedition to northern Peru. The 
Viru program was a cooperative attempt, on the part of a group of 
anthropologists and a geographer, to study thoroughly a single valley 
of the Peruvian coast as a living unit through some 3,000 years of time. 
Archeological, geographical, and modern community studies were 
embraced in the project, which was under the direction of a steering 
committee of the Institute of Andean Research. As one of the major 
participants, Dr. Willey represented the Bureau on the steering com- 
mittee. His own share of the research consisted of a survey of the 
prehistoric settlement patterns of the valley. 

At the close of field operations in August over 300 sites had been 
studied from the point of view of community plan or settlement 
pattern. These sites were selected from all sections of the valley, and 
it is estimated that they represent a 25-percent sample of the total 
sites in the valley. All types of sites were included in the sample — 
cemeteries, dwelling units, fortifications, temples, and palaces. In 
addition particular attention was paid to prehistoric irrigation canals, 
evidences of past land utilization, and ancient roads. Preliminary 
analysis shows eight cultural periods to be represented. The survey 
was accomplished with the aid of jeep transportation and large-scale 
air photo-maps. A technique of site mapping, involving the use of 
an epidiascopic projector, was worked out with the air photos. The 
final report on this survey is now in preparation. 

In addition to the settlement survey Willey also excavated at two 
burial sites, one in the upper and one in the lower valley. A report 
on the first of these sites has recently been published. 

Early in August Willey took part in the Conference on Peruvian 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 61 

Archeology held at Hacienda Chiclin. At this time he presented a 
preliminary smnmary of his field results. 

After the work in Virii was terminated, Dr. Willey made a brief 
visit to the Lambayeque Valley, north of the city of Trujillo, and 
examined collections in the important but little-known Bruning 
Museum. Eeturning south to Lima, he began a protracted trip by 
automobile, going from Lima to Caamana and from there inland to the 
Lake Titicaca region. From Puno, on the lake, he proceeded north to 
Cuzco, Ayacucho, Huancayo, and returned to Lima. During this 
trip, which consumed some 2 to 3 weeks during the month of Septem- 
ber, he visited numerous archeological sites. The most signiiicant of 
these was the great architectural cluster at Huari near Ayacucho, the 
presumed center for the Middle Period Tiahuanacoid diffusion 
throughout Peru. 

Upon his return to the United States in October Dr. Willey pre- 
pared several short papers and began the initial work of organizing 
notes, maps, and photographs on the Viru settlement-pattern study. 
He was engaged in this until x\pril of 1947. For the last 3 months of 
the fiscal year he transferred his research interests toward tlie com- 
pletion of a large monograph on the archeology of the Florida Gulf 
coast. This latter work, which embraces earlier field work of the 
author, as well as past field studies made by the Bureau in the Florida 
Gulf area, is intended as an over-all archeological summary of the 
region. 

During the year Dr. Willey also served as assistant editor to the 
professional journal, American Antiquity, and submitted various news 
items on recent researches in archeology in South America. He held 
a similar position with the Handbook of Latin i\jnerican Studies for 
which he prepared bibliogi'aphic extracts on some 50 titles dealing 
with South American archeology and wrote a general summary of 
recent archeological activities for the South American Continent dur- 
ing the year 1945. 

In April Dr. Willey visited the Public Museum at Rochester, N. Y., 
where he delivered a lecture on the Virii work before the annual meet- 
ing of the New York State Archeological Society. 

The following articles were written by Dr. Willey during the fiscal 
year 1946-47 : 

1. The Viru Valley Program in Northern Peru. Acta Americana, vol. 4, No. 4, 

1046. 

2. A Middle Period Cemetery in the Viru Valley, Northern Peru. Journ. Wash- 

ington Acad. Sci., vol. 37, No. 2, 1947. 

3. Ecuadorean Figurines and the Ceramic Mold in the New World. (In press.) 

4. Growth Trends in New World Cultures. (In press.) 

5. An Interpretative Analysis of Horizon Styles in Peruvian Archeology. (In 

press.) 

In addition, one book review was prepared for Science. 



62 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 194 7 

INSTITUTE OP SOCIAL ANTHROPOLOGY 

The Institute of Social Anthropology was created in 1943 as an 
autonomous unit of the Bureau of American Ethnology to carry out 
cooperative training in anthropological teaching and research with 
the other American Eepublics. During the past year it was financed 
by transfers from the State Department, totaling $113,150, from the 
appropriation "Cooperation with the American Republics, 1947." The 
major activities of the Institute of Social Anthropology during the 
fiscal year 1947 are as follows : 

Washington ofjice. — The Institute of Social Anthropology main- 
tains headquarters in Washington for general planning, direction, and 
servicing of field projects. Dr. Julian H. Steward, founder and first 
Director of the Institute, resigned in September 1946 to accept a pro- 
fessorship at Columbia University. He was succeeded by Dr. George 
M. Foster, previously stationed in Mexico as social anthropologist of 
the Institute of Social Anthropology. 

Brazil. — Cooperation with the Escola Livre de Sociologia e Politica 
began October 1, 1945, when Dr. Donald Piersoii was assigned as rep- 
resentative of the Institute of Social Anthropology to Brazil. In 
February 1946 Dr. Kalervo Oberg was assigned as cultural anthropolo- 
gist to cooperate with the Escola Livre. 

In effect, the Institute has taken over and expanded a program which 
was begun under Dr. Pierson in 1940 and which has helped make the 
Escola Livre one of the most important social-science centers in South 
America. 

During the fiscal year 1947 Institute of Social Anthropology scien- 
tists have given seven courses in sociology and anthropology, to sup- 
plement other courses given by local professors in the general field 
of the humanities. Advanced students have been given field training 
both in Mato Grosso among Indian groups, and among the rural 
peoples in the State of Sao Paulo, some distance from the city. This 
represents a very considerable educational advance, since for the first 
time advanced Brazilian students in anthropology and sociology, as 
a part of their regular courses, have been required to supplement 
theoretical classroom training with actual field experience. A number 
of papers by Smithsonian personnel and local students have been 
published in scientific series or journals other than Smithsonian vol- 
umes. Two monographs based on field work in 1947 are being pre- 
pared for publication by Smithsonian personnel in Smithsonian series, 
and Brazilian students also are preparing field notes for publication 
in Portuguese. 

Smithsonian staff members have continued to guide the program of 
translating 200 articles and 13 books from English into Portuguese, 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 63 

mentioned in last year's report. This work, financed by outside funds, 
is of great importance as an aid to teaching. 

Colombia. — Cooperation with the Institute Etnologico of the Uni- 
versity of Cauca in Popayan began December 1, 194G. The Institute of 
Social Anthropology is represented by Dr. John H. Rowe who is en- 
gaged in cooperating with local personnel in the organization of this 
new institution and in giving three courses in anthropology to stu- 
dents. A short survey of the habitat of the Guambiano Indians has 
indicated that this is a satisfactory region for field work, which begins 
on a cooperative basis during the summer of 1947, with the participa- 
tion' of Colombian professors and students. 

Mexico. — Cooperation with the Escuela Nacional de Antropologia, 
a dependency of the JNIinistry of Education, began June 1, 1944. Dr. 
George M. Foster, social anthropologist, was replaced by Dr. Isabel 
Kelly, when the former was transferred to Washington. Dr. Stanley 
S. Newman, linguist, and Dr. Robert C. West, cultural geographer, 
are the other two Institute of Social Anthropology representatives in 
Mexico. 

During the fiscal year 1947 these scientists have given five courses in 
social anthropology, linguistics, and cultural geography. The scene 
of field research was shifted in January 1947 from the Tarascan area, 
described in last year's report, to the Totonac Indian area east of 
Mexico City. Two monograph-length papers dealing with the Taras- 
cans have been submitted by Smithsonian personnel for publication 
in the series of the Institute of Social Anthropology. A number of 
student papers have appeared in Mexican sources, and longer mono- 
graphs in Spanish are ready for publication. 

Peru. — Work began in Peru in January 1944, when that country had 
no institution devoted essentially to social science teaching and re- 
search. Subsequently a national center of social science, the Institute 
de Estudios Etnologicos, of the Ministry of Education, has been es- 
tablished. Institute of Social Anthropology personnel cooperate with 
this Institute. During 1947 the Institute of Social Anthropology was 
represented in Peru by F. Webster McBryde, cultural geographer, 
and Dr. Allan Holmberg, social anthropologist, who arrived in July 
1946 to succeed Dr. Harry Tschopik, Jr. 

A party of six students and one professor accompanied Institute of 
Social Anthropology personnel to the Viru Valley in northern Peru 
for ethnographical and geographical field work during the months 
January to April 1947. Under the guidance of the Smithsonian scien- 
tists this material is now being prepared for publication. Courses 
also are being given in the Institute de Estudios Etnologicos. In ad- 
dition, the cultural geographer has aided in the reorganization of the 



64 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947 

Geographical Society of the University of San Marcos in Lima, and 
in establishing the teaching curriculum of this department. 

Publications. — One monograph of the series Publications of the 
Institute of Social Anthropology appeared in June 1947 — Publication 
No. 3, Moche, a Peruvian Coastal Community, by John Gillin. Publi- 
cation No. 4, Cultural and Historical Geography of Southwest Guate- 
mala, by Felix Webster McBryde, Publication No. 5, Highland Com- 
munities of Central Peru: A Regional Survey, by Harry Tschopik, 
Jr., and Publication No. 6, Empire's Children: the People of Tzin- 
tzuntzan, by George M. Foster, were in proof. Publication No. 7, Cul- 
tural Geography of the Modern Tarascan Area, by Robert C. West, 
and Publication No. 8, Sierra Popoluca Speech, Mary L. Foster and 
George M. Foster, were edited and sent to the printer. Mrs. Eloise 
B. Edelen of the editorial staff of the Bureau of American Ethnology, 
did the editorial work on these publications. 

RTVER BASIN SURVEYS 

The River Basin Surveys were instituted in the fall of 1945 as a unit 
of the Bureau of American Ethnology. They were organized to carry 
into effect a memorandum of understanding between the National 
Park Service and the Smithsonian Institution. This memorandum 
provided for surveys to determine the extent and nature of archeolog- 
ical and paleontological remains occurring in areas to be flooded by 
the construction of dams by the Bureau of Reclamation and the Corps 
of Engineers, United States Army. The memorandum was signed 
on August 7, 1945, by Newton B. Drury, Director of the National Park 
Service, and on September 8, 1945, by Alexander Wetmore, Secretary 
of the Smithsonian Institution, and was approved by Harold L. Ickes, 
Secretary of the Interior, on October 9, 1945. 

The first actual field work got under way in July 1946. A transfer 
of $20,000 at the end of May 1946, by the Bureau of Reclamation 
through the National Park Service, provided the necessary funds for 
starting survey parties in the Missouri Basin. An additional $40,000 
subsequently was made available by the Bureau of Reclamation for 
work in this area during fiscal 1947. In September 1946 $27,000 
was transferred by the Corps of Engineers, through the National 
Park Service, for surveys outside of the Missouri Basin, and in March 
1947 $4,500 was transferred by the Bureau of Reclamation for surveys 
in the Columbia-Snake Basin. The Missouri Basin funds were for 
use in both Bureau of Reclamation and Corps of Engineers projects. 
The money provided by the Corps of Engineers was for Corps of 
Engineers projects only, while the Columbia-Snake Basin money was 
for use only in Bureau of Reclamation projects. 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 65 

The first survey parties were started in the Missouri Basin. These 
■were followed by investigations in Georgia, Virginia-North Carolina, 
Texas, California, and the Columbia-Snake Basin, Supervision and 
direction of the surveys in Georgia, Virginia-North Carolina, Texas, 
and California were carried on from the main office in Washington. 
Direction of the work in the Missouri Basin was from a field office 
located at Lincoln, Nebr., and the Columbia-Snake Basin investiga- 
tions were based on a field office established at Eugene, Oreg. 

The Bureau of Reclamation and the Corps of Engineers made the 
entire salvage program possible through the transfer of funds, but 
in addition both agencies contributed in no small degree to the suc- 
cessful inception of the surveys through their cooperation in other 
ways. Division and District Engineers and Bureau of Reclamation 
personnel did much to facilitate the work of the survey men in the 
field. In some areas transportation was provided, in others, neces- 
sary labor was furnished to aid in emergency excavations, and else- 
where temporary office space and storage facilities were made avail- 
able at project headquarters. The genuine interest and desire to assist 
on the part of all with whom the members of the River Basin Surveys 
staff were associated in the various reservoir areas greatly aided the 
progress of the investigations. The planning of a Nation-wide arche- 
ological survey on a scale hitherto not believed possible became feasible 
with the transfer of funds. The cooperation of the National Park 
Service has been of marked benefit to the program and much credit 
is due to its officials for the obtaining of the the necessary funds and 
for the pleasant relationship existing between all the agencies involved 
in the program. 

Washington office. — Throughout the fiscal year the main office of the 
River Basin Surve37s continued under the direction of Dr. Frank H. H. 
Roberts, Jr. Carl F. Miller, archeologist, joined the staff on Novem- 
ber 6, 1946. Miss Madeleine A. Bachand was appointed clerk-stenog- 
rapher on March 3, 1947, and continued to serve throughout the year. 

Mr. Miller was preparing to leave for the Pearl River project at 
Bogalusa, La., on November 13, 1946, when a request was received 
from the district engineer to postpone tliis work indefinitely because 
the project had been stopped. Mr. Miller was then assigned to the 
study of proposed projects in the Middle Atlantic Division of the Corps 
of Engineers. He devoted his time to searching the literature for 
information about sites which might be involved by construction pro- 
grams in Pennsylvania, Virginia, North Carolina, and West Virginia. 
During this period he also assisted the director in obtaining informa- 
tion about proposed projects of the Bureau of Reclamation in vai-ious 
parts of the country outside the Missouri Basin. On February 11, 



66 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 194 7 

1947, he left Washington for Richmond, Va., to confer with the offi- 
cials at the Region 1 office of the National Park Service. From Rich- 
mond he proceeded to Norfolk, Va., on February 13, to confer with the 
district engineer. Corps of Engineers, about a survey of the Buggs 
Island project on the Roanoke River. He left Norfolk on February 
14 and went to South Hill, Va., where he established headquarters. 
From that date until May 4 he surveyed all the Virginia and part of 
the North Carolina portion of the reservoir basin. He then returned 
to Washington and devoted the remainder of the fiscal year to pre- 
paring a preliminary report on the results of the survey and making 
recommendations and estimates for an excavation program in that 
area. 

Missouri Basin. — The first steps in initiating investigations in the 
Missouri Basin were the establishment of field headquarters at Lincoln, 
Nebr., and the assembling of personnel to undertake the field sur- 
veys. Dr. Waldo R. Wedel, associate curator of archeology, United 
States National Museum, who had been detailed to the River Basin 
Surveys for that purpose, left Washington for Lincoln, Nebr., on 
July 8, 1946, and upon his arrival there began instructing the person- 
nel recruited for the project and assembling equipment needed in the 
field. Through the courtesy of the University of Nebraska, office space 
was provided at the University's Laboratory of Anthropology. Later, 
additional space was made available for a laboratory. This arrange- 
ment continued throughout the year, and on June 30, 1947, both the 
field office and the project laboratory were housed in the basement of 
the Love Memorial Library on the university campus. 

Actual reconnaissance started on August 3, 1946, and continued for 
a period of 7 weeks, at the end of which weather conditions made it 
necessary for the men to return to field headquarters. During this 
time, 3 parties of 2 men each, limited because of inadequate transporta- 
tion, covered more than 13,000 miles and made preliminary investiga- 
tions at 28 top priority Bureau of Reclamation projects and at 5 Corps 
of Engineers reservoirs. Since complete coverage of each reservoir 
basin was in no case possible, additional surveys were recommended for 
most of the units visited. One field party returned to the Harlan 
County Reservoir, Nebr., for a period of 5 weeks, October 16 to Novem- 
ber 23, 1946, and with the aid of local labor tested a number of sites 
and removed material which was being damaged by erosion or being 
excavated by unauthorized collectors. 

Dr. Waldo R. Wedel returned to Washington and to his regular 
duties at the National Museum on October 18, 1946. At this time 
Paul L. Cooper was designated as acting director for the Lincoln of- 
fice and continued to serve in that capacity until May 21, 1947, when 
Dr. Wedel, who had again been detailed to the Surveys, returned to 
Lincoln and resumed his supervision of the Missouri Basin program. 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 67 

During the fall and winter months at Lincoln the staff members 
prepared and completed preliminary appraisal reports covering 25 of 
the projects visited during the 1946 field season. By June 30 most 
of these reports had been distributed to the National Park Service, the 
Bureau of Reclamation, and the Corps of Engineers, or were ready to 
be mailed. A general paper entitled "Prehistory and the Missouri 
Valley Development Program: Summary Report on the Missouri 
River Basin Archeological Survey in 1946," written by Dr. Wedel, was 
published in April in the Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections, 
volume 107, No. 6. Throughout this period the field laboratory 
cleaned and cataloged more than 10,000 archeological specimens 
gathered from 208 different sites, and in addition processed 426 photo- 
graphic negatives and prepared approximately 2,200 prints for use in 
the reports. Maps were drawn showing the location of sites in each 
reservoir area, and the reports were mimeographed, assembled, and 
made ready for distribution. 

Field work was resumed in the latter part of April when three 
archeological parties consisting of four men each and one paleontologi- 
cal party consisting of one man, started for various reservoir projects. 
The paleontologist subsequently was joined by a student assistant. In 
addition to further investigations in reservoir areas visited during 
the 1946 field season, other projects were added to the list, and by 
the end of the fiscal year a total of 44 Bureau of Reclamation and 
6 Corps of Engineers projects had been surveyed. They are located 
in the States of Kansas, Nebraska, South Dakota, North Dakota, 
Wyoming, and Montana. All parties were in the field on June 30 
and expected to continue throughout the summer. During this 
period Dr. Wedel directed operations in the Lincoln office and made 
several visits to the field parties at the locations where they were 
working. He also attended conferences between the regional officers 
of the National Park Service and Bureau of Reclamation and Corps of 
Engineers representatives. 

The survey findings to date indicate that the Wyoming-Montana 
area contains few pottery-bearing sites. There, as in the western 
Dakotas, stone circles or "tipi-rings" are to be found in great num- 
bers. Numerous outcrops of artifacts in strata exposed by stream 
cuttings are j)lentiful and occur at varying depths below the surface. 
Some of them give promise of containing material belonging to 
early occupations, possibly even those of the Paleo-Indian, and they 
may supply much needed data on that phase of Plains prehistory. 
Throughout northern Kansas and northwestern Nebraska pithouse 
villages attributed to semisedentary peoples predominate. Pottery- 
bearing sites as well as "tipi-rings" occur on the tributaries of the 
Missouri in North and South Dakota. Groups of mounds, village 
remains, and former camp sites suggesting a more sedentary type of 



68 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947 

occupation than that west of the Missouri occur in the Jamestown- 
Devils Lake-Sheyenne area. Along the main stream of the Missouri 
in the Dakotas are some of the largest and best preserved and most 
impressive fortified Indian village sites in the United States. They 
contain much of the story of the development of Arikara, Mandan, 
and other upper Missouri cultures. 

In many of the sites there is evidence of stratification and a se- 
quence of cultures or a series of stages in cultural development. 
Others contain the record of prehistoric floods, of silting and soil 
erosion, of recurrent droughts, and fluctuation in climate. The ex- 
cavation and the interpretation of the data contained in such sites 
will contribute greatly, not only to the story of the growth and 
development of the Plains Indians, but to our understanding of 
conditions similar to those met and overcome by the aboriginal peoples. 
For this reason the excavation and testing of several sites in three 
Bureau of Reclamation reservoirs was recommended for the fiscal 
year 1948, and for two important sites at one Corps of Engineers 
project. 

J. Joseph Bauxar, archeologist, joined the Missouri Basin staff 
on July 16, 1946. From that date until August 3 he devoted his time 
to obtaining information on archeological remains in the Dakotas, 
from reports on previous excavations and surveys in that area, and 
in making preparations for work in the field. From August 3 until 
September 22, in company with Paul L. Cooper, he engaged in a 
preliminary reconnaissance of reservoir projects in Nebraska, South 
Dakota, North Dakota, and Montana. In these reservoir basins a 
total of 68 sites were examined, site locations and descriptions being 
recorded and surface collections made. During the laboratory period, 
from September 22 until April 24, 1947, Mr. Bauxar prepared pre- 
liminary reports for seven of the reservoirs, Angostura, Box Butte, 
Bronco, Crosby, Deslacs, Fort Randall, and Jamestown, and pre- 
pared a technical report entitled "Notes on the Archeology of the 
Upper James and Sheyenne River Valleys and the Devils Lake 
Area." From April 24 until May 7 he joined Wesley L. Bliss in 
preliminary surveys of three reservoirs in Kansas, one in Colorado, 
and five in Nebraska. During this period 25 sites, none of which had 
been recorded previously, were visited. From May 7 to June 2 the 
time was spent in collaborating with Wesley L. Bliss and Theodore 
E. White on a report entitled "Preliminary Appraisal of Archeologi- 
cal and Paleontological Resources of the Proposed Reservoirs in the 
RepubJican River Basin." On June 2 Mr. Bauxar left Lincoln, as 
a member of the field party under the direction of Paul L. Cooper, to 
make a reconnaissance of the Fort Randall Reservoir in South Da- 
kota. This work was still in progress at the end of the fiscal year. 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 69 

Wesley L. Bliss was appointed to the Missouri Basin staff as an 
archeologist on July 17, 1946. From July 17 to August 4 he was 
occupied in making preparations for field reconnaissance in Wyoming 
and Montana. He left Lincoln on August 4 and returned on Septem- 
ber 22. In this period his party made preliminary surveys in six 
reservoir areas in Wyoming, one which lies both in Wyoming and 
Montana, and three in Montana. A total of 74 archeological and pale- 
ontological sites were found and recorded, and surface collections were 
made from each. The fall and winter months, September 22, 1946, 
until xVpril 24, 1947, were spent at the Lincoln headquarters doing lab- 
oratory and library research and in writing preliminary reports. 
Reports were prepared for the Boysen, Tiber, and ISIedicine Lake Res- 
ervoirs. In addition, Mr. Bliss prepared a draft of a paper entitled 
"A Preliminary Appraisal of the Historic and Prehistoric Occupa- 
tion of the Western Plains." Some revision and the checking of some 
material were needed to complete the paper. In the early spring of 
1947 Bliss made several unofficial week-end visits with other members 
of the staff to archeological sites along the Missouri, north of Kansas 
City, and on the Big Blue River in Nebraska. These were for the 
purpose of obtaining a wider knowledge of archeological manifesta- 
tions in the area. In one case the trip was instrumental in stopping 
the destruction of a group of mounds in the path of a real-estate sub- 
division. From April 24 to May 7, 1947, Mr. Bliss, in association with 
J. Joseph Bauxar, as previously noted, made a reconnaissance of nine 
proposed reservoirs in Kansas, Colorado, and Montana. He assisted 
in the preparation of the report on the Smokey Hill Sub-basin. On 
June 10 Mr. Bliss left Lincoln in charge of a field party and proceeded 
to the Glendo Reservoir in Wyoming where the remainder of the 
month was devoted to an intensive survey. At the end of the fiscal 
year, 30 sites had been located in addition to tlie ones noted during 
the preliminary reconnaissance in the summer of 1946. 

Paul L. Cooper, archeologist, became a member of the Missouri 
Basin staff on July 15, 1946. Between that time and August 3 he as- 
sisted in the preparations for work in the field and made two trips to 
Omaha with Dr. Wedei for the purpose of consultation with members 
of the National Park Service and the Corps of Engineers. On August 
3 he left Lincoln with J. Joseph Bauxar to make preliminary surveys 
at reservoir sites in Nebraska, South Dakota, North Dakota, and Mon- 
tana. As previously noted, 68 archeological and paleontological sites 
were located during the course of this survey. Mr. Cooper returned 
to the Lincoln headquarters on September 22, and from October 7, 
1946, to May 21, 1947, was in charge of the operation of the office and 
laboratory. During this period he planned and supei'vised the work 
of the jDroject personnel, compiled monthly progress reports for the 



70 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 194 7 

National Park Service and the Bureau of Reclamation, assisted in the 
setting up of record systems in the laboratory and in establishing 
methods for issuing the reports based on the field work and laboratory 
studies. Owing to a shortage of personnel, it was necessary for Mr. 
Cooper to devote much of his time to direct supervision and to many 
of the actual operations involved in mimeographing and distributing 
the preliminary appraisals of the archeological and paleontological 
resources of the various reservoirs. In May Mr. Cooper represented 
the River Basin Surveys at a symposium on the River Valley program 
conducted by the Nebraska Academy of Sciences. During the period 
May 21 to June 2, 1947, Mr. Cooper prepared reports on Heart Butte, 
Dickenson, Deerfield, Shadehill, Blue Horse, Slieyenne, and Garrison 
Reservoirs, and on the Devils Lake area. Mr. Cooper left Lincoln on 
June 3, 1947, in charge of a field party which was to undertake a pre- 
liminary reconnaissance of the Fort Randall Reservoir on the Missouri 
River in South Dakota. This recomiaissance was still in progress on 
June 30, at which time 60 archeological sites had been located and 
recorded. 

Robert B. Gumming, Jr., archeologist, was added to the staff as 
laboratory supervisor at the Lincoln headquarters on October 1, 1946. 
Since the laboratory was then being moved to new quarters in the 
basement of the Love Memorial Library building, Mr. Cumming began 
work by assisting in the formulation of the laboratory plan and plac- 
ing the equipment in order so that routine work could proceed. Dur- 
ing the fall and winter months he assisted in planning and initiating 
basic laboratory methods. A triplicate filing system was devised in 
which information covering approximately 175 sites was filed in a site 
file, a reservoir file, and a reserve file. A photographic file system 
was organized wherein prints were mounted on 5- by 8-inch cards bear- 
ing descriptive information and were filed in accordance with a stand- 
ard trinomial system consisting of symbols for the State, county, and 
site. The negatives were filed in a separate cabinet using the same 
system for identification. Mr. Cumming also formulated the system 
for cleaning, cataloging, and storing the specimens and assisted in 
initiating an inventory procedure for equipment and supplies which 
he maintained throughout the year. In addition, he assisted in super- 
vising the maintenance of equipment. He also assisted in the work 
and supervision of the preparation of illustrations, drafting of site 
maps, typing, mimeographing, proofreading, and assembling of the 
preliminary reports. During such times as the field directors were 
absent from the headquarters office, he handled the business routine 
in the office. At the close of the fiscal year Mr. Cumming was engaged 
in processing the records sent in from the field for 50 sites located after 
resumption of the survey work. Because the laboratory was under- 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 71 

staffed during much of the year, it was necessary for Mr. Gumming 
to perform tasks which should have been done by laboratory workers. 
Tiiis condition was relieved somewhat during the last few weeks of 
the fiscal year when several part-time workers were added to the staff. 
This enabled Mr. Gumming to devote more time to the teclinical 
aspects of the laboratory problem. 

Jack T. Hughes, archeologist, was appointed to the Missouri Basin 
staff on July 15, 194G. From then until August 4 he assisted in the 
prei^arations for field work and received instructions as to the manner 
in which the surveys were to be conducted. On August 4 he left 
Lincoln with Wesley L. Bliss for a preliminary reconnaissance of 
Bureau of Keclamation reservoir sites in Wyoming and Montana. He 
returned to Lincoln on September 22 after having assisted in the ex- 
amination of the 10 reservoirs previously mentioned in the discussion 
of the work of Mr. Bliss. During the period from September 22, 
1946, to May 3, 1947, Mr. Hughes engaged in library research, labora- 
tory analysis of specimens, and the preparation of reports. Prelimi- 
nary appraisals were written for the Glendo, Kortes, Boysen, Anchor, 
Lake Solitude, and Oregon Basin Reservoirs in Wyoming, the Yellow- 
tail Reservoir in Wyoming and Montana, and the Ganyon Ferry Res- 
ervoir in Montana. Technical reports were also written for Glendo, 
Kortes, Boysen, Anchor, Oregon Basin, and Yellowtail. From May 
3 to May 12, 1947, Mr. Hughes participated with Marvin F. Kivett, 
in a brief reconnaissance of seven proposed reservoir sites in the Lower 
Platte Basin of Nebraska. After his return to Lincoln, he assisted 
in the preparation of the preliminary appraisal of the archeological 
resources of this group of reservoirs in the Lower Platte Basin of 
Nebraska. On June 10 he left Lincoln with the field party under Wes- 
ley L. Bliss and spent the remainder of the month at the Glendo 
Reservoir in eastern Wyoming. 

Marvin F. Kivett joined the Surveys staff on July 15, 1946, as arche- 
ologist. On August 2 he left Lincoln to make a reconnaissance of eight 
reservoir areas in Kansas, Nebraska, and Golorado. This work con- 
tinued until September 20, 1946, when he returned to Lincoln. In the 
course of 7 weeks spent in the field, a total of 75 archeological sites were 
recorded in the 8 reservoir areas; 60 of these sites were unreported 
prior to the reconnaissance. On October 10 Mr. Kivett went to the 
Harlan Gounty Reservoir, Nebr., where he carried on an extensive 
survey until November 23. This included excavation in a prehistoric 
ossuary and limited test excavations in four occupational areas. This 
work produced much information on the nature of the archeological 
remains in the area. From November 24, 1946, to May 2, 1947, Mr. 
Kivett worked at headquarters in Lincoln writing preliminary ap- 
praisals of the resources of the eight reservoirs visited during the 

777488 — 48 6 



72 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 194 7 

summer field season and in analyzing the data and specimens collected 
and in preparing technical reports. The preliminary reports com- 
pleted and mimeographed for distribution were on the Kirwin, Cedar 
Bluff, and Kanopolis Reservoirs in Kansas; the Enders, Harlan 
County, and Medicine Creek Reservoirs in Nebraska ; and the Cherry 
Creek and Wray Reservoirs in Colorado. Mr. Kivett left Lincoln on 
May 3, 1947, in company with Jack T. Hughes. From then until May 
19 they made a preliminary reconnaissance of six reservoirs in the 
Lower Platte River Sub-basin. A total of 19 previously unreported 
archeological sites were located during this period. After his return 
to Lincoln, Mr. Kivett prepared preliminary reports on the Lower 
Platte River Basin including all the information obtained from the 
six reservoirs visited. The period from June 1 to June 9 was spent in 
preparing for a preliminary reconnaissance of the Garrison Reservoir 
in North Dakota. Mr. Kivett and his party left Lincoln for North 
Dakota on June 9, and at the end of the year they were engaged in a 
survey of the Garrison Reservoir. 

Theodore E. Wliite, paleontologist, was appointed to the general 
River Basin Surveys staff on April 15, 1947. From that date until 
April 26 he devoted his time to studying collections of fossil material 
from the Missouri Basin in the United States National Museum. On 
April 27 he left Washington for Lincoln, Nebr., and on April 29 joined 
the Missouri Basin staff. He left Lincoln on May 2 and spent 6 days 
in a reconnaissance of proposed reservoir areas in the Lower Platte 
Sub-basin in north central Nebraska. During this time he visited 
seven reservoir basins finding fossil remains in only one. These were 
reworked material of little scientific value. Dr. White returned to 
the Lincoln headquarters on May 9 and left on May 13 to make a recon- 
naissance of the Republican and Smokej? Hill Sub-basins in south- 
western Nebraska, Kansas, and Colorado. This work continued until 
June 6, during which time he visited nine reservoirs in Nebraska, eight 
in Kansas, and two in Colorado. Seven of these sites were recom- 
mended for a more detailed survey on the basis of material found 
and the extent of the exposures. From June 6 to June 13 Dr. White 
worked at the Lincoln headquarters preparing reports and recom- 
mendations for the various reservoirs which he had examined. On 
Jmie 13 he left Lincoln to examine proposed reservoir areas in the 
North Platte Sub-basin in Wyoming, the Cheyenne River Sub-basin 
in Wyoming and South Dakota, and smaller sub-basins in North and 
South Dakota. This reconnaissance lasted until June 28, and during 
the period three reservoirs were visited in Wyoming, six in South 
Dakota and four in North Dakota. Three of the reservoirs were rec- 
ommended for more detailed investigation. White returned to Lin- 
coln on June 28 and at the end of the fiscal year was preparing to 
start for further survey work in Wyoming and Montana. 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 73 

Several students were employed as members of the various field 
parties for the Surveys beginning in June 1947. Robert L. Hall and 
Warren L. Wittry left Lincoln on June 2 with the Coopei- party for 
the Fort Kandall Eeservoir in South Dakota, and at the end of the 
fiscal year were occupied in the survey of that area. John L. Essex, 
Gordon F. JMcKenzie, and Leo L. Stewart left Lincoln on June 9 as 
members of the Kivett party to make a reconnaissance of the GaiTison 
Reservoir area in North Dakota. Mr. Essex had previously assisted 
Mr. Kivett in the work at the Harlan County Reservoir, Nebr., in 
November 1946. H. G. Pierce joined the Bliss party and left Lincoln 
on June 10 to assist in the survey at the Glendo Reservoir in Wyoming. 
He was still with the party at the end of the fiscal year. John C. 
Donohoe was employed on June 27 to assist the paleontologist, Dr. 
Theodore E. White. 

Georgia. — Intensive survey of the Allatoona Reservoir area on the 
Etowah River in Georgia was carried on during the period Novem- 
ber 12, 1946, to April 1, 1947. This survey was made by Joseph R. 
Caldwell, of the Division of Archeology, United States National Mu- 
seum, who was detailed to the River Basin Surveys for that purpose. 
Caldwell located 20G archeological sites representing a record of thou- 
sands of years of diverse human cultures. Liformation obtained from 
this survey has added materially to the aboriginal history of that part 
of Georgia. Full knowledge, however, cannot be gained without ex- 
cavation of some of the sites and the testing of others. In view of 
this the preliminary report, prepared by Mr. Caldwell and distributed 
to the National Park Service and the Corps of Engineers, recom- 
mends the excavation of 10 sites and the testing of 33 others. A re- 
quest for further funds for this purpose has been made by the National 
Park Service to the Corps of Engineers, but at the end of the fiscal 
year no response had been received to the request. The specimens col- 
lected from the sites examined during the course of this survey were 
transferred to the National Museum on April 17, 1947. 

Yirginia-N ortli Carolina. — The archeological reconnaissance of the 
Buggs Island project on the Roanoke River was carried on during the 
period of February 14 to May 1, 1947. This work was under the super- 
vision of Carl F. Miller of the River Basin Surveys staff. During the 
course of the investigations, 94 archeological sites were located, 2 of 
which are extremely important as they appear to represent an eastern 
phase of the so-called Folsom culture which flourished in the western 
plains during the closing days of the last Ice Age. Other sites are pre- 
Colonial and some date from the early Colonial period. The latter 
are significant as they contain material characteristic of the late seven- 
teenth-century contact with European culture and their investigation 
would throw considerable light on this little-known era. Excavation 
of 14 sites including the 2 eastern Folsom examples and the testing of 



74 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947 

5 others has been recommended. A preliminary report on the Buggs 
Island Reservoir was completed but had not been processed for dis- 
tribution at the end of the fiscal year. 

Texas. — River Basin Surveys were started in Texas in March 1947 
when, through the kindness and cooperation of the authorities, a field 
base and headquarters were established at the Department of Anthro- 
pology of the University of Texas at Austin. A survey of the Addicks 
Reservoir on South Mayde Creek, a tributary of Buffalo Bayou, 
near Houston, got under way March 27 and was still in progress at the 
close of the fiscal year. The Addicks project is not a reservoir in the 
true sense of the word, but a flood-prevention dam which will not 
retain water in its basin for more than 2 or 3 weeks at a time. As 
a consequence, most of the sites located in the basin will be available 
for study or excavation during most of the year. A series of nine 
sites were found, however, which w^ere being destroyed by stream ac- 
tion, by construction work on the dam, or by indiscriminate and unau- 
thorized digging. As a consequence, it was necessary to shift from a 
reconnaissance type of survey to an intensive testing procedure to 
salvage as much information as possible. Six of them were examined 
by digging a number of test pits in various portions of the areas which 
they covered, and subsequently two of the six were extensively excava- 
ted. The cooperation of the district engineer. Col. D. W. Griffiths, in 
supplying a crew of 10 men and a foreman for a period of several 
weeks made these excavations possible. One of the excavated sites 
consisted of a stratified midden containing a sequence of several cul- 
tural horizons. Work on the site was started on May 29 and completed 
on June 13. The second was started on June 16 and was still being 
dug at the end of the fiscal year. The information and material from 
these two sites will provide a fairly complete sequence showing the 
development of aboriginal culture in this area over a comparatively 
long period of time. During this period, the Indians progressed from 
a simple hunting group to a sedentary agricultural and pottery- 
making people. The data obtained are a significant contribution to the 
hitherto little-known pre-Columbian history of this part of Texas. 

The Hords Creek Reservoir on Hords Creek, near Coleman, was sur- 
veyed during the period May 6 to May 17, 1947. Only eight sites 
were found in the reservoir basin. Six of them were burned rock 
middens and two were open camp sites. None gave indication of 
being of sufficient importance to warrant further investigation. Com- 
parable material is available elsewhere in locations which will not be 
inundated. Unless construction work should reveal subsurface de- 
posits of archeological material, no additional work will be required 
in this reservoir. 

The Whitney Dam area on the Brazos River north of Waco was 
started on May 20 and was still in progress at the end of the fiscal 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 75 

year. By June 30 a little over half of the basin had been covered. 
Numerous sites had been located and recorded, and a number had 
been trenched for additional information. Several small rock shel- 
ters were excavated to salvage material which was being disturbed by 
unauthorized collectors. Two laborers for digging test trenches and 
for excavating in the shelters were supplied by the resident engineer. 
The Brazos flows through an important archeological and paleon- 
tological area in Texas and much information is contained in the sites 
which will be flooded by the Whitney Dam. On the basis of data 
already obtained by the survey, a number of key sites will be recom- 
mended for excavation. 

Joe Ben Wheat, archeologist, was appointed to the Surveys in Texas 
on March 20, 1947. He left Austin on March 25 for Galveston where 
he conferred with the district engineer and obtained information 
about the priority of various Corps of Engineer projects in Texas. 
From Galveston he proceeded to the Barker Reservoir near Houston. 
He found that the project was so near completion that there was no 
possibility of salvaging archeological information from that area. 
Construction on the Barker Dam had completely destroyed one large 
mound and obliterated any evidence of occupation areas. As a con- 
sequence he proceeded to the nearby Addicks Dam and began a sur- 
vey of that area. After learning that much of the reservoir basin 
would be under water onlj'- at rare intervals, Mr. Wheat turned his 
attention to six sites in the immediate vicinity of the dam which 
would be destroyed either as a result of construction or by erosion 
from stream action. All these were tested, and from the information 
thus obtained he concluded that two of them should be excavated as 
they contained a sequence of materials showing a number of cultural 
changes. In this connection he went to Galveston on ISIay 20 and con- 
ferred with Colonel Griffiths, the district engineer. As a result of 
this conference, Mr. Wlieat was furnished an excavation crew, trans- 
portation, and the equipment necessary for conducting the excava- 
tions. He returned to Addicks on May 22, and was able to begin 
actual excavations on May 29. Digging was still in progress on 
June 30. 

Robert L. Stephenson, archeologist, joined the Surveys in Texas on 
April 28. From that date until May 5 he worked at Austin, conferring 
with members of the Museum staff at the University, studying collec- 
tions of archeological material, and making preparations for field 
reconnaissance. He left Austin on May 6 for the Hords Creek Reser- 
voir. From May 7 through May 17 he examined the Hords Creek 
Reservoir Basin, locating and recording eight archeological sites. On 
May 18 he left Coleman for Waco where he conferi-ed with Frank 
H. Watt, of the Central Texas Archeological Association, obtaining 
information about archeological sites along the Brazos River, and 



76 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947 

particularly in the area to be flooded by the Whitney Dam. On May 
19 he went to Wliitney and conferred with the Kesident Engineer. 
On May 20 he began the actual survey of the Whitney Dam area and 
continued with that work to the end of the fiscal year. During the 
course of his investigations he interviewed numerous local residents, 
obtaining all the information possible pertaining to the occurrence of 
archeological sites, and studied collections of artifacts which had been 
gathered from sites in the area. In addition he made note of various 
historic remains and obtained such data as were available about them. 
This information was forwarded to the regional office of the National 
Park Service at Santa Fe, N. Mex., for the benefit of the Park Service 
historians. 

California. — Archeological surveys were started in California in 
May 1947. Through the cooperation of the Department of Anthro- 
pology of the University of California, at Berkeley, headquarters for 
the Surveys were made available. During the period from March 21 
through June 28, 1947, six Corps of Engineers proposed reservoir 
basins were surveyed. They were Pine Flat on King's River, Terminus 
on Kaweah River, Success on Tule River, Isabella on Kern River, 
Folsom on American River, and Coyote Valley on the east fork of 
the Russian River. A total of 59 sites were located, and of this number 
8 have been recommended for excavation or partial excavation. 

Some immediate contributions to the archeological Imowledge of 
California were derived from the surveys. Two aboriginal soapstone 
quarries and three pictograph sites, none of which had been described 
p]"eviously in archeological literature, were located. Surface collec- 
tions of sherds of the unique and little-known Yokuts-Mona pottery 
will permit a more extensive description of the type from archeological 
sources than has previously been possible. 

Franklin Fenenga, archeologist, was appointed to the California 
surveys on March 21. He made all the surveys in the six reservoirs 
listed above, prepared the preliminary reports on their archeological 
resourceis, and made recommendations for further work. On June 
28 Mr. Fenenga left Berkeley, Calif., for Eugene, Oreg., and at the 
end of the fiscal year was starting a survey of the Detroit Reservoir 
in the Willamette Valley. 

During the course of the surveys in California Mr. Fenenga em- 
ployed several student assistants, Stephen C. Cappannari served in 
that capacity from May 8 to 11 inclusive; Francis A. Riddell, May 
29-June 1, and June 12-15; Harry S. Riddell, Jr., April 17-20; and 
Clarence E. Smith, April 1--6, May 1-4 and 19-25. 

Columbia-Snake Basin. — The progi'am for surveys in the Columbia- 
Snake Basin was just getting under way at the close of the fiscal year. 
Dr. Philip Drucker, anthropologist on the regular staff of the Bureau 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 77 

of American Ethnology, vas detailed to the River Basin Surveys for 
the purpose of directing the work in this area. On June 30 he had 
established field headquarters at Eugene, where the Department of 
Anthropology of the University of Oregon provided office and labora- 
tory space. Two field parties left Eugene on the morning of June 30, 
one to make a reconnaissance of the Detroit Keservoir, a Corps of 
Engineers project on the North Santiam River, in the Willamette 
Valley, Oreg., and the other to make investigations at the Cascade 
Reservoir on the North Fork Payette River in Idaho. Plans for the 
summer called for the survey of 4 Corps of Engineers and 12 Bureau 
of Reclamation projects. 

Dr. Drucker left Washington on June 17, 1947, for San Francisco, 
Calif. He spent the day of June 18 at Lincoln, Nebr., studying the 
operational procedure being used in the Missouri Basin surveys and 
the laboratory arrangements for processing and cataloging specimens 
received from the field. He arrived in San Francisco on the 19th and 
spent the following 2 days in conference with the regional officers of 
Region 4 of the National Park Service and members of the Department 
of Anthropology at the University of California in Berkeley. On 
June 22 he left San Francisco for Portland, Oreg,, arriving on the 
23d. At Portland he spent 2 days discussing plans for the surveys 
with Regional Archeologist Louis R. Caywood of the National Park 
Service, regional officials of the Bureau of Reclamation, and repre- 
sentatives of the district engineer of the Corps of Engineers. At this 
time he also made arrangements for the field headquarters at Eugene. 
He returned to San Francisco on June 24 and reported the results 
of his trip to Portland to the regional office of the National Park 
Service. He also recruited personnel for the field parties and made 
arrangements for the shipment of equipment from Berkeley to Eu- 
gene. He left Berkeley on June 28, arriving at Eugene, Oreg., on the 
29th. He left Eugene on June 30 with the field party proceeding to 
the Cascade Reservoir. 

Clarence E. Sniith, archeologist, was appointed to the Columbia- 
Snake Basin surveys on June 25. He spent the following 2 days 
assisting Dr. Drucker and Franklin Fenenga in making preparations 
for the summer's field w'ork. On June 28 he left Berkeley in company 
with Fenenga for Eugene, Oreg. They arrived at Eugene on the 
29th and on the morning of the 30th left for the Detroit Reservoir. 

Ricliard D. Daugherty, archeologist, was appointed to the 
Columbia-Snake Basin staff on June 30, and left the same day for the 
Cascade Reservoir in Idaho. 

Francis A. Riddell joined the Surveys staff on June 26, as field 
assistant. He left Berkeley, Calif., on June 28 and arrived at Eugene, 
Oreg., on June 29. On June 30 he left Eugene in company with Mr. 
Daugherty and Mr. Drucker for the Cascade Reservoir. 



78 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947 

Cooperating institutions. — The Kiver Basin Surveys have been for- 
tunate in receiving wholehearted cooperation from local institutions 
in many portions of the country. Not only has space for field offices 
and laboratories been provided together with the assistance and advice 
of members of the various staffs, as at the University of Nebraska, the 
University of Texas, the University of California, and the University 
of Oregon, but in a number of cases units in the survey program have 
been taken over and are being worked by universities and local organ- 
izations. This active cooperation has relieved the River Basin Sur- 
veys of a considerable burden and has made for more rapid progress 
throughout the country as a whole. 

In Peimsylvania the Pennsylvania Historical and Museum Com- 
mission helped with the program. The University of Kentucky as- 
sumed responsibility for investigations at the Wolf Creek and Dewey 
Eeservoir projects in that State. The Alabama Museum of Natural 
History conducted surveys along the lower Chattahoochee River Basin 
in Alabama in areas wdiich will be inundated. The Ohio State Mu- 
seum at Columbus investigated Corps of Engineers projects in that 
State. The University of Missouri, in cooperation with the Missouri 
Resources Museum and the Missouri Archeological Society, started 
surveys and excavations in that portion of the Bull Shoals Reservoir, 
on the White River, which lies in Missouri and at several Corps of 
Engineers projects on the Osage River. The Department of An- 
thropology of the University of Chicago and the Illinois State Mu- 
seum at Springfield agreed to cooperate in a survey of the Illinois 
River Basin where 17 Corps of Engineers projects are proposed. The 
University of Oklahoma examined and reported on two reservoirs, 
one of which, the Wister, will inundate extensive and important 
archeological material. The University of Nebraska cooperated both 
in the search for and the excavation of paleontological material and 
in archeological reconnaissance. The Nebraska State Historical So- 
ciety assisted in the survey work and also did some digging in sites 
which will be destroyed by construction work. The South Dakota 
Historical Society did some survey work and also some excavation. 
The University of North Dakota and the North Dakota Historical 
Society cooperated in making a survey at the Heart Butte Reservoir 
and in testing a number of sites in that area. The University of Colo- 
rado assumed responsibility for a survey of eight reservoir basins in 
the Colorado-Big Thompson project and for more intensive investi- 
gation at the Wray Reservoir in eastern Colorado. The University 
of Denver planned surveys of a number of reservoirs in the Blue 
River-South Platte project and of two in the Arkansas River Basin 
south of Pueblo. Western State College took over the examination 
of a group of reservoirs along the Gunnison River in western Colorado. 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 79 

The Archeological Survey Association of Southern California, spon- 
sored by a number of museums in that area, started the investigation 
of a number of Corps of Engineers projects in southern California. 
The University of Washington surveyed a number of proposed reser- 
voir basins in that State and made all the information available to 
the Columbia-Snake Basin group at Eugene. It also did some exca- 
vation work. 

The Keports of Progress prepared by the cooperating organizations 
are sent to the River Basin Surveys for coordination and are then for- 
warded to the National Park Service. All the information obtained 
thus becomes a part of the record of the River Basin Surveys in 
general. 

EDITORIAL WORK AND PUBLICATIONS 

The editorial work of the Bureau continued during the year under 
the immediate direction of the editor, M. Helen Palmer. There were 
issued one Annual Report and one Publication of the Institute of 
Social Anthropology, as listed below. 

Sixty-third Annual Report of the Bureau of American Ethnology, 1945-46. 
12 pp. 

Institute of Social Anthropology Puhl. No. 3. Moche, a Peruvian Coastal Com- 
munity, by John Gillin, IGG pp., 26 pis., 8 figs., 1 map. 

The following publications were in press at the close of the fiscal 
year: 

Bulletin 143. Handbook of South American Indians. Julian H. Steward, 
editor. Volume 3 : The Tropical Forest Tribes. Volume 4 : The Circum-Caribbean 
Tribes. Volume 5 : The Comparative Ethnology of the South American Indians. 

Institute of Social Anthropology Publ. No. 4. Cultural and Historical Geogra- 
phy of Southwest Guatemala, by Felix Webster McBryde. 

Institute of Social Anthropology Publ. No. 5. Highland Communities of Central 
Peru : A Regional Survey, by Harry Tschopik, Jr. 

Institute of Social Anthropology Publ. No. 6. Empire's Children : the People of 
Tzintzuntzan, by George M. Foster. 

Institute of Social Antliropology Publ. No. 7. Cultural Geography of the Mod- 
ern Tarascan Area, by Robert C. West. 

Institute of Social Anthropology Publ. No. 8. Sierra Popoluca Speech, by Mary 
L. Foster and George M. Foster. 

Publications distributed totaled 7,948, as compared with 12,730 for 
the fiscal year 1945-46. 

LIBRARY 

The Library of the Bureau has continued in charge of the librarian. 
Miss Miriam B. Ketchum, assisted by M. L. Fiester, who was appointed 
March 17, 1947. 

The total accessions in the library as of June 30, 1947, were 34,462. 
There were 148 new accessions during the fiscal year, by purchase, gift, 



80 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947 

and exchange. Many of the foreign exchanges which lapsed during 
the war have again resumed, and good progress has been made in filling 
the gaps, brought about by the war, in periodical sets. 

Cards on hand for domestic periodicals have been typed, and the 
shelf list for tliis classification is now complete. A beginning has been 
made on typing the cards for serial publications of domestic societies 
and institutions, and this will soon be finished. 

The labeling of sets of publications of domestic societies and institu- 
tions and all the domestic periodicals has been completed, and the 
labeling of the foreign serial publications has begun. 

ILLUSTRATIONS 

From late fall of 1946 up to June 30, 1947, E. G. Cassedy, illustrator, 
spent most of the time, with the exception of time taken out to prepare 
weather graphs, work for the Editorial Division, and miscellaneous 
maps and plates, on the restoration of the old Indian negatives of the 
Bureau of American Ethnology. With the help of Mr. Brostrup this 
work has been progressing very satisfactorily and many negatives 
which were important historically and which were about to be lost 
have been preserved for coming generations. 

ARCHIVES 

Miss MaeW. Tucker continued the work of operating and cataloging 
the manuscript and photographic archives of the Bureau. In addi- 
tion to furnishing material for routine requests, some special requests 
for photographic prints requiring urgent attention have been filled. 
Visitors desiring to consult material in the archives have been given the 
required assistance. 

The greater part of the time has been given to work on the manu- 
script catalog which is being prepared for publication, to include all 
the unpublished manuscript material in the Bureau archives. The 
data for this catalog has been typed on individual cards for each item 
and is ready for final assembling. 

A new file-print collection consisting of prints made from the re- 
photographed and retouched negatives in the Bureau collection has 
been started and will continue as the new prints are made. On Mr. 
Cassedy's recommendation, an extra set of prints is being made along 
with the file prints, this set to be preserved for possible emergency use. 

Some time is necessarily required for research work in connection 
with both the manuscript material and the photographs. 

SPECIAL PHOTOGRAPHIC RESTORATION PROJECT 

The Bureau of American Ethnology ever since its inception in 1879 
has maintained a collection of photographic negatives of North Ameri- 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 81 

can Indians. The file had its origin with the famous "Jackson" col- 
iection of over 1,000 negatives which was brought to the Bureau by 
Major Powell from the directorship of the United States Geological 
Survey. This unique and valuable group has been supplemented by 
about 11,000 additional negatives obtained from various sources in- 
cluding the field trips of the first 40 years, the exposures made in 
Washington of the visiting Indian delegations, gifts, and purchases. 
Xo where else in this country is there a more complete photographic 
record of the Indians who figured prominently in peace and war 
during the important opening of the West in the nineteenth century. 
In several instances the only known photographs of important char- 
acters of this period are in this collection. 

The great bulk of this collection was made before 1900 in the early 
days of photography, and often under extremely adverse field condi- 
tions of heat and bulky weight. These factors have contributed toward 
a deterioration of the negative image. This deterioration fortunately 
has started around the edges of the negative and is progressing toward 
the center, still leaving the figure and facial characteristics quite legi- 
ble. However, if allowed to go on unchecked this collection will have 
disintegrated unto uselessness. 

During this fiscal year it was determined to inaugurate a systematic 
program of restoration and preservation of this unique collection. The 
continuous demand for reprints from these negatives, especially those 
being used for publication, made this restoration imperative. 

In February 1947 the services of a photographer, John O. Brostrup, 
were obtained. The photographer and the scientific illustrator have 
begun the program of restoration and preservation of these negatives. 
The following system was devised and is being used in this vrork : 

(1) Chemical improvement and cleaning of the original negative. 
(2) Making a uniform enlarged print from the original negative, 
cropping out destroyed and objectionable background areas. (3) Res- 
toration of missing areas, and improvement of backgrounds by the 
scientific illustrator with the minimum alteration necessary to pre- 
serve faithfully the original negative. (4) Copying the restored en- 
largement to uniform 8 by 10 inch size. (5) Printing of permanent 
file prints. 

All the processing is being carried out with the intent of insuring as 
great a degree of permanence as possible. 

First priority is being given those negatives which are needed to 
supply prints for pay orders, i. e., those for which there is an imme- 
diate demand. Second priority are those negatives which are in the 
most advanced stages of deterioration. 

At the beginning of the work in February an inspection was made 
of each negative, and those requiring early restoration were listed. 



82 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947 

A file of restored prints is being built up, and inspection in the 
offices of the Bureau of American Ethnology is invited. 

COLLECTIONS 

Collections transferred by the Bureau of American Ethnology to the 
Department of Anthropology, United States National Museum, dur- 
ing the fiscal year were as follows : 

Accession No. Collection 

17G066. 65 ethnological specimens from the Rio Vaup^s in CJolombia and Brazil. 

Collected by Paul H. Allen. 
176157. 3 ethnological specimens from the Navaho Indians. Collected bj- Dr. 

John P. Harrington, at Fort Defiance, Ariz., in 1939. 
176347. 1 ceremonial cane from the Iroquois Indians of Six Nations Reserve, 

Canada. Collected by J. N. B. Hewitt, June 1916. 

MISCELLANEOUS 

During the course of the year information was furnished by mem- 
bers of the Bureau staff in reply to numerous inquiries concerning the 
American Indians, both past and present, of both continents. Vari- 
ous specimens sent to the Bureau were identified and data on them 
furnished for their owners. 
Kespectfully submitted. 

M. W. Stirling, Chief. 
Dr. A. Wetmore, 

Secretary^ S7nithsonian Institution. 



APPENDIX 6 
REPORT ON THE INTERNATIONAL EXCHANGE SERVICE 

Sm : I have the honor to submit the following report on the activi- 
ties of the International Exchange Service for the fiscal year ended 
June 30, 1947. 

Although shipping was suspended during Se^jtember, October, and 
November because of shipping and trucking strikes, the allotment for 
transportation was practically exhausted by the end of March. There- 
fore it was necessary to curtail sharply shipping during the last 3 
months of the fiscal year. 

The number of packages received for transmission during the year 
was 703,798, an increase over the previous year of 163,296. The 
weight of these packages was 773,975 pounds, an increase of 301,076 
pounds. The average weight of the individual packages is approxi- 
mately 1 pound, 2 ounces, as compared to the average of the previous 
year of approximately 14 ounces — an indication that the institutions 
are still shipping material held during the war. The material re- 
ceived from both foreign and domestic sources for distribution is 
classified as shown in the following table : 





Packages 


Weight 




Sent 
abroad 


Received 

from 

abroad 


Sent 
abroad 


Received 

from 

abroad 


United States parliamentary documents sent abroad 


375, 501 




Pounds 
177, 722 


Pounds 


Publications received in return for parliamentary documents.. . 


2,754 


6,421 


United States diipartmcntal documents ^cnt abroad 


129,075 


199,315 

"292,192 


Publications received in return for departmental documents 


6,573 


13, 996 


Miscellaneous sclcnlific and literary publications sent abroad. .. 


166,009 


Miscellaneous scientific and literary publications received from 
abroad for distribution In the United States 


23, 886 


84,029 








Total 


670, 585 


33, 213 


669, 529 


104,446 




Grand total 


703 79R 


773 Q7S 













The packages are forwarded partly by mail direct to the addressees 
and partly by freight to the exchange bureaus. The number of boxes 
shipped was 2,578, a decrease of 539. Of the boxes shipped 638 were 
for depositories of full sets of the United States Government docu- 
ments furnished in exchange for the official publications of foreign 
governments for deposit in the Library of Congress. The number of 
packages forwarded by mail was 164,305. 

83 



84 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947 

Of tiie material accumulated at the Institution during the war, there 
remained at the beginning of the fiscal year 196,082 pounds. This war 
backlog was reduced to 69,020 but owing to enforced decrease in 
shipments during the last quarter of the year the actual backlog at the 
end of the year was 110.998 pounds. 

Consignments are now forwarded to all countries except Rumania 
and Yugoslavia. Shipments to these countries will probably be re- 
sumed during the coming year. The notable resumptions of exchange 
are with Germany and Japan, which were effected with the cooperation 
of the Civil Affairs Division of he War Department. 

rOREIGN DEPOSITORIES OF GOVERNMENTAL DOCUINIENTS 

The immber of sets of United States official publications received 
to be sent in return for the official publications sent by foreign govern- 
ments for deposit in the Library of Congress is 93 (56 full and 37 
partial sets). The depository for Germany has been changed as 
indicated in the list and the set formerly sent to the League of Nations 
is now sent to the United Nations. 

DEPOSITORIES OF FXTLL SETS 

Aegentina: Direcci6n de Investigaciones, Archive, Biblioteca y Legislacioii Ex- 

traujero, Ministerio de Relaciones Esteriories y Culto, Buenos Aires. 
Australia: Commonwealtli Parliament and National Library, Canberra. 

New South Waxes : Public Library of New South Wales, Sydney. 

Queensland: Parliamentary Library, Brisbane. 

South A^ustkalia : Puiilic Library of South Australia, Adelaide. 

Tasmania : Parliamentary Library, Hobart. 

Victoria : Public Library of Victoria, Melbourne. 

Western Australia : Public Library of Western Australia, Perth. 
Austria : National Library of Austria, Vienna.* 
Belgium : BibliothCque Royale, Bruxelles. 
Brazil : Institute Nagional do Livro, Rio de Janeiro. 
Canada : Library of Parliament, Ottawa. 

Manitoba: Provincial Library, Winnipeg. 

Ontario : Legislative Library, Toronto. 

Quebec : labrary of the Legislature of the Province of Quebec. 
Chile: Biblioteca Nacional, Santiago. 
China: Ministry of Education, National Library, Nanking, China. 

Peiping: National Library of Peiping. 
Colombia : Biblioteca Nacional, Bogota. 

Costa Rica : Olicina de DepSsito y Canje Internacional de Publicaciones, San Jos6. 
Cuba: Ministerio de Estado, Canje Internacional, Habana. 
Czechoslovakia : Bibliotheque de I'Assembl^e Nationale, Prague. 
Denmark: Kongelige Danske Videnskabernes Selskab, Copenhagen. 
Egypt: Bureau des Publications. Ministfire des Finances, Cairo. 
Estonia: Riigiraamatukogu (State Library), Tallinn. 
Finland : Parliamentary Library, Helsinki. 



* Added during the year. 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 85 

France : Bibliotlidque Nationale, Paris. 

Gebmany: Offeiitliclie Wissenscluii'tliche Bibliotliek, Berlin.*^ 

Grel\t Britain : 

England: British Museum, London. 

London: Londou School of Economics and Political Science. (Doijository of 
the Loudon County Council.) 

IIungaet: Library, Hungarian House of Delegates, Budapest. 

India: Imperial Library, Calcutta. 

Ireland : National Library of Ireland, Dublin. 

Italy: Ministerio della Publica Istruxione, Home. 

Japan: Imperial Library of Japan, Tokyo.' 

Mexico: Secretaria de Relaciones Exteriores, Departameuto de Informaci6n para 
el Extranjero, Mexico, D. F. 

Netherlands : Royal Library, The Hague. 

New Zealand: General Assembly Library, Wellington. 

Northern Ireland: H. M. Stationery Ottice, Belfast. 

Norway: Universitets-Bibliothek, Oslo. (Depository of the Government of 
Norway.) 

Peru: Seccion de Propaganda y Publicuciones, Miuisterio de Relaciones Ex- 
teriores, Lima. 

Philippines: National Library, Manila.* 

Poland : Bibliotheque Nationale, Warsaw. 

Portugal: Biblioteca Nacional, Lisbon. 

Rumania : Academia Romana, Bucharest. 

Spain : Cambio Internacional de Publicaciones, Avenida Calvo Sotelo 20, Madrid 

Sweden : Kungliga Biblioteket, Stockholm. 

Switzerland : Bibliotheque Centrale F^d(5rale, Berne. 

Turkey : Department of Printing and Engraving, Ministry of Education, Istanbul. 

Union of South Africa: State Library, Pretoria, Transvaal. 

Union of Soviet Socialist Republics : Ali-Union Lenin Library, Moscow 115. 

Ukraine: Ukrainian Society for Cultural Relations with Foreign Countries, 
Kiev. 

United Nations: Library of the United Nations, Geneva, Switzerland. 

Uruguay: Oficina de Canje Internacional de Publicaciones, Montevideo. 

Venezuela : Biblioteca Nacional, Caracas. 

Yugosi^via : Ministere de I'Education, Belgrade. 

depositories of partial sets 

Afghanistan: Library of the Afghan Academy, Kabul. 

Bolivia: Biblioteca del Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores y Culto, La Paz. 

BpvAzil : 

MiNAS Geraes : Directoria Geral e Estatistica em Minas, Bello Horizonte. 
British Guiana : Government Secretary's Office, Georgetown, Demerara. 
Canada : 

Axberta : Provincial Library, Edmonton. 

British Columbia: Provincial Library, Victoria. 

New Brunswick : Legislative Library, Fredericton. 

Nova Scotia : Provincial Secretary of Nova Scotia, Halifax. 

Prince Edward Island : Legislative and Public Library, Charlottetown. 

Saskatchewan : Legislative Library, Regina. 



* AddoJ during the year. 
^ Teuiporarlly suspeudod. 



86 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947 

Ceylon : Chief Secretary's Office, Record Department of the Library, Colombo. 
Dominican Republic: Biblioteca de la Universidad de Santo Domingo, Ciudad 

Trujillo. 
Ecuador : Biblioteca Nacional, Quito. 
Guatemala : Biblioteca Nacional, Guatemala. 
Haiti : Biblioth^que Nationale, Port-au-Prince. 

HOKDUBAS : 

Biblioteca y Archivo Nacionales, Tegucigalpa. 

Ministerio de Relaciones Esteriores, Tegucigalpa. 
Iceland; National Library, Reykjavik. 
India : 

Bengal : Library, Bengal Legislature, Assembly House, Calcutta. 

BiHAE and Obissa : Revenue Department, Patna. 

Bombay: Undersecretary to the Government of Bombay, General Depart- 
ment, Bombay, 

Buema; Secretary to the Government of Burma, Education Department, 
Rangoon. 

Punjab : Chief Secretary to the Government of the Punjab, Lahore. 

United Provinces of Agra and Oudh : University of Allahabad, Allahabad. 
Iran : Imperial Ministry of Education, Tehran. 
Iraq : Public Library, Baghdad. 
Jamaica : Colonial Secretary, Kingston. 
Liberia : Department of State, Monrovia. 
Malta : Minister for the Treasury, Valleta. 
Newfoundland : Department of Home Affairs, St. John's. 
Nicaragua : Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores, Managua. 
Panama : Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores, Panama. 

Paraguay : Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores, Seccion Biblioteca, Asuncl6n. 
Salvador : 

Biblioteca Nacional, San Salvador. 

Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores, San Salvador. 
SiAM : Department of Foreign Affairs, Bangkok. 
Vatican City : Biblioteca Apostolica Vaticana, Vatican City, Italy. 

INTERPARLIAMENTARY EXCHANGE OF THE OFFICIAL JOURNAL 

There are now being sent abroad 71 copies of the Federal Register 
and 65 copies of the Congressional Record. The countries to which 
these journals are being forwarded are given in the following list: 

depositories of congressional record and federal register 

Aegentina : 

Biblioteca del Congreso Nacional, Buenos Aires. 

Biblioteca del Poder Judicial, Mendoza.* 

Camara de Diputados, Oficina de Informacion Parlamentaria, Buenos Aires. 

Boletin Oficial de la Repilblica Argentina, Ministerio de Justica e Instrucci6n 
Publica, Buenos Aires. 
Australia : 

Commonwealth Parliament and National Library, Canberra, 

New South Wales : Library of Parliament of New South Wales, Sydney. 

Queensland : Chief Secretary's Office, Brisbane. 

Western Australia : Library of Parliament of Western Australia. 



' Federal Register only. 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 87 

Braztl: 

Biblloteca do Congresso Nacionnl, Rio de Janeiro. 

Imprensa Nacional, Rio de Janeiro.* 

Amazonas : Archlvo, Biblioteca e Imprensa Publica, Mandos. 

Bahia: Govemador do Estado da Bahia, Sao Salvador. 

EspiEiTO Santo: Presidencia do Estado do Espirito Santo, Victoria. 

Rio Grande do Stn.: "A Federagao," Porto Alegre. 

Seruipe: Biblioteca Publica do Estado de Sergipe, Aracajti. 

Sao Pattlo: Imprensa Oficial do Estado, Sfio Paulo. 
British Hondueas : Colonial Secretary, Belize. 
Canada: 

Library of Parliament, Ottawa. 

Clerk of the Senate, Houses of Parliament, Ottawa. 
Ctjba: 

Bililioteca del Capitolio, Habana. 

Biblioteca Publica Panamericana, Habana.* 
BiGYPT: Ministry of Foreign AL^airs, Egyptian Government, Cairo." 

FliANCE : 

Bibliofh&que, Chambre des D4put6s, Paris. 

Bibllotb^que, Consul! de la Republique.* 

Publiques de I'lnstitute de Droit Compare, University de Paris, Paris." * 
Geeat Bkitain : Printed Library of the Foreign Office, London. 
Gbeece : Library, Greek Parliament, Athens. 
Guatemala : Biblioteca de la Asamblea Legislativa, Guatemala. 
Haiti : Biblioth^que Nationale, Port-au-Prince. 
HoNDUBAS : Biblioteca del Congreso Nacional, Tegucigalpa. 
India : 

Civil Secretariat Library, Lucknow, United Provinces.* * 

Legislative Assembly Library, Lucknow, United Provinces.* 

Legislative Department, Simla. 
Iebxand : Dail Eireann, Dublin. 

Italy: International Institute for the Unification of Private Law, Rome.* 
Mexico : 

Direcci6n General de Informaci6n, Secretaria de Gobernaci6n, Mexico, D. F. 

Biblioteca Benjamin Frank] in, Mexico, D. F. 

Aguascaxientes : Gobernador del Estado de Aguascalientes, Aguaseallentes. 

Campeche : Gobernador del Estado de Campeche, Campeche. 

Chiapas : Gobernador del Estado de Chiapas, Tuxtla Gutierrez. 

Chihuahua : Gobernador del Estado de Chihuahua, Chihuahua. 

Coahuila: Peri6dico Oficial del Estado de Coahuila, Palaeio de Gobierno, 
Saltillo. 

Colima ; Gobernador del Estado de Colima, Colima. 

DuBANGO: Gobernador Constitucional del Estado de Durango, Durango. 

Guanajuato: Secretaria General de Gobierno del Estado, Guanajuato. 

GuEBBEBo : Gobernador del Estado de Guerrero, Chilpancingo. 

Jalisco: Biblioteca del Estado, Guadalajara. 

LowEE Califobnia : Gobernador del Distrito Norte, Mexican. 

Mfoico: Gaceta del Gobierno, Toluca. 

MicHOAciJ^: Secrebiria General de Gobierno del Estado de MichoacJln, 
Morelia. 



* Federal Registor only. 

* CoLigressional Record only. 

* Added during the year. 

777488 — 48 7 



88 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947 

MoEELos : Palacio de Gobierno, Cuernavaca. 

Nataeit : Gobernador de Nayarit, Tepic. 

NuBvo Le6n : Biblioteca del Estado, Monterrey. 

Oaxaca : Perlodico Oflcial, Palacio de Gobierno, Oaxaca. 

PuEBLA : Seeretaria General de Gobierno, Puebla. 

QuEE^TAEO : Seeretaria General de Gobierno, Seccion de Archivo, QuerStaro. 

San Luis PotosI : Congreso del Estado, San Luis Potosl. 

Sinaloa: Gobernador del Estado, de Sinaloa, Culiae&n. 

SoNOKA : Gobernador del Estado de Sonora, Hermosillo. 

Tabasco: Seeretaria General de Gobierno, Seccion 3a, Ramo de Prensa, 
Villahermosa. 

Tamaulipas : Seeretaria General de Gobierno, Victoria. 

Tlaxcala : Seeretaria de Gobierno del Estado, Tiaxcala. 

Vkracruz : Gobernador del Estado de Veracruz, Departmento de Gobernacidn 
y Justicia, Jalapa. 

Yucatan : Gobernador del Estado de TucatJ^n, M6rida. 
New Zealand : General Assembly Library, Wellington. 
Peru : C6mara de Diputados, Lima. 
Poland : Ministry of Justice, Warsaw.' 
Spain : Diputacion de Navarra, San Sebastian. 

Switzerland : Bibliot^que, Bureau International du Travail, Geneva.* 
Union of South Africa : 

Cape of Good Hope: Library of Parliament, Cape Town. 

Teansvaal : State Library, Pretoria. 
Ueuguay : Diario Oficial, Calle Florida 1178, Montevideo. 
Venezuela: Biblioteca del Congreso, Caracas. 

POEEIGN EXCHANGE AGENCIES 

Exchanges are sent to all countries except Kumania and Yugoslavia. 
The countries listed are those to which shipments are forwarded by 
freight. To other countries not appearing on the list, packages are 
forwarded by mail. 

LIST OF AGENCIES 

Austria: Austrian National Library, Vienna. 

Belgium : Service des ifichanges Internationaux, Biblioth^que Royale de 
Belgique, Bruxelles. 

China : Bureau of International Exchange, National Central Library, Nanking. 

Czechoslovakia : Bureau des iScbanges Internationaux, Biblioth^que de I'Assem- 
bl6e Nationale, Prague 1-100. 

Denmark : Institut des ^changes Internationaux, Bibliotheque Iloyale, Copen- 
hagen K. 

Egypt: Government Press, Publications Office, Bulaq, Cairo. 

Finland: Delegation of the Scientific Societies of Finland, Kasarngatan 24, 
Helsinki. 

France: Service des iSchanges Internationaux, Biblioth&que Nationale, 58 Rue 
de Richelieu, Paris. 

Germany: Oflfentliche Wissenschaftliche Bibliothek, Berlin.* 



* Federal Register only. 

* Distribution under supervision of War Department. 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 89 

GsEAT Bbitaj.n AJSD IRELAND: Wheldou & Wesley, 721 North Circular Road, 
Willesden, London, N. W. 2. 

Hungary : Hungarian Libraries Board, Ferenclektere 5, Budapest, IV. 

India : Sui)erintendent of Government Printing and Stationery, Bombay. 

Italy: 

UfBcio degli Scambi Internzionali, Ministero della Publica Istruxione, Rome. 

Japan: 

International Exchange Service, Imperial Library of Japan, Uyeno Park, 
Tokyo.' 

Netheelands : International Exchange Bureau of the Netherlands, Royal Library, 
The Hague. 

New South Wales: Public Library of New South Wciles, Sydney. 

New Zealand : General Assembly Library, Wellington. 

Norway : Service Norv^gien des Echanges Internatiouaux, Bibllotheque de TUni- 
versit6 Royale, Oslo. 

Pai^estine: Jewish National and University Library, Jerusalem. 

Poland: Sei'vice Polonais des ^changes Internationaux, Bibllotheque Nationale, 
Warsaw. 

Pobtugal: Secgao de Trocas Internacionais, Eiblioteca Nacional, Lisbon. 

Queensland : Bureau of Exchanges of International Publications, Chief Secre- 
tary's Office, Brisbane. 

Rumania: Minist^re de la Propagande Nationale, Service des ifichangcs Inter- 
nationaux, Bucharest. 

South Australia: South Australian Government Exchanges Bureau, Govern- 
ment Priming and Stationery Office. Adelaide. 

Spain : Junta de Intercambio y Adquisicion de Libros y Revistas para Biblote- 
cas Piiblicas, Ministerio de EducaciOn Nacional, Avenida Calvo Soteh) 20, 
Madrid. 

Sweden : Kungliga Biblioteket, Stockliolm. 

Switzerland : Service Suisse des iSchanges Internationaux, Bibllotheque Centrale 
Feu^rale, Palais F6d6rale, Berne. 

Tasmania: Secretary to the Premier, Hobart. 

TuRiCEY : Ministry of Education, Department of Printing and Engraving, Istanbul. 

Union of South Africa: Government Printing and Stationery Office, Cape Town, 
Cape of Good Hope. 

Union of Soviet Socialist Republics : International Book Exchange Depait- 
mont, Society for Cultural Relations with Foreign Countries, Moscow, 5(). 

Victoria : Public Library of Victoria, Melbourne. 

Western Australia : Public Library of Western Australia, Perth. 

Yugoslavia: Section des Eclianges Internatiouaux, Minist^re des Aftaires 
fitrangferes, Belgrade, 

Respectfully submitted. 

H. W. Dorset, Acting Chief. 
Dr. A. Wbtmore, 

Secretary, Smithsoman Institution. 



* Distribution under supervision of War Department. 



APPENDIX 7 
KEPORT ON THE NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK 

SiK : I have the honor to submit the following report on the opera- 
tions of the National Zoological Park for the fiscal year ended June 
30, 1947. 

The regular appropriation for the operations of the Zoo was 
$393,420. A supplemental appropriation of $39,100 for salary in- 
creases authorized by Congress was also available, making a total of 
$432,500. Subject to minor changes in final bills, a total of $425,748 
was expended for all purposes and an unexpended balance of $6,752 
remains. Inability to fill many of the positions for considerable 
periods resulted in salary savings which were available to apply on 
salary increases that had been authorized by Congress, thereby reduc- 
ing the amount that was needed in the supplemental appropriation. 

During the war equipment had deteriorated and stocks of materials 
and supplies had become seriously depleted in many instances. By 
diligent search the Zoo has been able to replace or repair some of the 
equipment and replenish some of the supplies and materials. The 
close of the fiscal year finds the Zoo short as to many items, but as a 
whole in a definitely better condition than prevailed a year ago as to 
exhibition, animals, personnel, equipment, materials, supplies, and 
general condition of structures and grounds. 

During the past year a slight improvement in the supply of animals 
for exliibition has enabled the Zoo partially to replenish the stock. 

Physical improvements included the completion of 370 square yards 
of sidewalk; surface treatment of nearly all the main roads, a sm.all 
parking area opposite the large-mammal house, the road back of the 
bird house, and the service road from the silver-gull cage to the bird 
house. Excellent progress has been made in painting, which is a con- 
tinuous operation in an establislmient of the size and type of the 
National Zoological Park. The general appearance of the grounds 
has been very materially improved by pruning, clearing of under- 
brush, cutting down weeds, and renewing and mowing lawns, all of 
which had been seriously neglected during the war period. During 
the summer of 1946 excellent progress was made in fighting poison ivy 
by spraying with ammonium sulfamate. This procedure was con- 
tinued during the summer of 1947, and already a great reduction in 
this pest is noticeable. The fight against iDoison ivy was greatly 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 91 

facilitated by the cooperation of the Department of Asriculture, 
Bureau of Plant Industry, in lending a power spray. Before 1947 
the Zoo has each year received numerous reports of ivy poisoning in 
the Park, but up to midsummer of 1947 no cases have been reported. 

NEEDS or THE ZOO 

A Email addition to the personnel is needed to enable the Zoo to 
carry on the work in an efficient manner and permit employees to take 
the leave to which they are legally entitled. The Zoo has been under- 
manned throughout the entire period of its existence, and with the 
adoption of the 40-hour week, the situation has become particularly 
acute. 

As the years go by the need becomes more pressing for new buildings 
to replace antiquated, dilapidated structures that are still used to 
house animals. Preliminary plamiing has been taken up with the 
Public Works Administration for construction of these buildings 
when economic conditions justify. 

The condition of the Administration Building, which is now about 
142 years old and has had no major improvements or rehabilitation 
for many years, is such that it cannot be kept in presentable condition, 
and the excessive dampness is injurious to equipment, records, photo- 
graphs, negatives, and books, as well as to the health of the employees 
who work in the building. 

VISITORS 

Before the war the attendance at the Park was much greater on 
Saturdays and Sundays than on the earlier days of the week. Since 
the war there has been a surprisingly uniform attendance throughout 
the week, even Monday and Tuesday consistently showing good 
attendance. Throughout the year it was noticeable that there was a 
consistent increased attendance of visitors over the previous year, the 
final tabulation showing an increase for the year of 358,341. 

ESTIMATED NtTMBEB OP VISITljKS POR FISCAL TEAB 1947 

July (1946) 311,000 February 64,100 

August 280,000 March 203,225 

September 276, 700 April 374, 053 

October 189, 200 May 343. 800 

November 153, 300 June 356, 400 

December 93, 950 ■ 

January (1947) 84,950 Total 2,730,678 

Groups came to the Zoo from schools in 22 States, some as far away 
as Wisconsin, Indiana, and Louisiana. 



92 



ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 194 7 



NUMBER OF GROUPS FROM SCHOOLS 





Nimi- 
berof 
groups 


Num- 
ber in 
groups 




Num- 
ber of 
groups 


Nimi- 
ber in 
groups 


Alabama 


1 

8 

8 

202 

^1 

28 

369 
16 

8 


18 

220 

324 

f6,017 

J fel3 

1,154 

> 152 

£1 84 

p 314 

22, 179 

886 

376 


New Jersey 


24 
28 
67 
35 

151 
32 
16 

282 

17 

1 


1,847 


Connecticut 


New York 


2,580 


Delnware .-.---. .. 


North Carolina 


2,676 


District of Columbia 


Ohio 


681 


Florida 


Pennsylvania _ 


8,109 




South Carolina 


1,079 


Indiana 


TpnnpRSPR 


682 


Louisiana . 


Virginia .. 


14, 647 


Maine 


West Virginia 


659 


Maryland. . . - . . . 


Wisconsin - . . . 


85 




Total 




Michigan 


1,303 


65, 081 









About 2 p. m. each day the cars then parked in the Zoo are counted 
by the Zoo police and listed according to the State, Territory, or coun- 
try from which they came. This is, of course, not a census of the 
cars coming to the Zoo but is valuable in showing the percentage of 
attendance by States of people in private automobiles. The tabula- 
tion for the fiscal year 1947 is as follows : 



Percent 

Washington, D. C 30.6 

Maryland 21. 09 

Virginia 20.04 

Pennsylvania 4. 2 

New York 2.5 

Ohio 1. 9 



Percetit 

North Carolina 1. 8 

West Virginia 1.2 

California 1. 1 

New Jersey 1. 1 

Maine . 9 

Florida . 9 



The cars that made up the remaining 12.67 percent came from 
every one of the remaining States, as well as from Alaska, Alberta, 
Argentina, Australia, British Columbia, Canal Zone, Cuba, Hawaii, 
Manitoba, Mexico, New Brunswick, Nicaragua, Nova Scotia, Ontario, 
Panama, Quebec, Saskatchewan, and Sweden. 

It is well known that District of Columbia, Maryland, and Vir- 
ginia cars bring to the Zoo many people from other parts of the 
United States and of the world, but no figures are available on which 
to base percentages. 

THE EXHIBITS 

The quality of specimens on exhibition has been fairly satisfactory 
during the year. The total number of specimens on hand June 30, 
1947, was 454 more than on the corresponding date in 1946, the prin- 
cipal increase being in the number of birds and amphibians. 

The outstanding exhibits during the year were penguins. Four 
species, the emperor, macaroni, rock -hopper, and adelie, were brought 
from the Antarctic by the United States Naval Antarctic Expedi- 
tion through the interest of Kear Adm. Richard E. Byrd and Ad- 
miral Richard H. Cruzen. Two other species, the Humboldt and jack- 
ass, were already in the Zoo or were obtained from other sources. 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 93 

Thirty-four ocellated turkeys were brought to the Zoo by Dr. D. S. 
Newill, who had obtained them in Guatemala. These turkeys have 
been very rare in collections and make an interesting exhibit. Five 
were retained and the rest distributed by Dr. Newill to other zoos. 

Other interesting birds were two gray hornbills from India, the 
first of the species to be exhibited in the United States. 

Three specimens of Troost's turtle, two albino and one normally 
colored, were deposited by James Nelson Gowanloch. All were 
young, only about 2 inches in diameter, but were outstanding be- 
cause of the extreme rarity of albino turtles. These are a beautiful 
light cream color through which shows the pattern of the normal 
coloration. They have pink eyes and a bright red spot on the neck 
that is characteristic of the species. 

Exhibits of very small creatures of more than ordinary interest 
were three different species of tiny frogs : the green and black arrow- 
poison frogs, red and black frog"S, and yellow and black atelopus. 

Other additions to the collection that were of unusual interest were : 
A young great gray kangaroo, which was a gift from the people of 
Australia to the people of the United States and was flown to Wash- 
ington on a nonstop flight September 30-October 1, 1946, from. Perth, 
Australia, to Washington, D. C, by the United States Navy plane 
Truculent Turtle^ a young Alaska brown bear received through the 
interest of members of the force of the Alaska Game Commission and 
the Fish and Wildlife Service; an Arabian gazelle presented to 
the Zoo by W. W. Shaffer; a spectacled bear from the x\ndes region, 
o])tained by purchase; a baby potto bom to a pair that had been 
brought to the Zoo by the Smithsonian-Firestone Expedition to Li- 
beria in 1940; pigmy green cardinals; the short-legged lizard from 
Cuba; five young specimens of the giant salamander of Japan, which 
were received by the United States Army as a gift from the school chil- 
dren of Japan to the school children of the United States, particularly 
through the interest of Brig. Gen. John W. O'Brien, Chief, Scien- 
tific and Technical Division, GHQ, SCAP, and Dr. Austin Brues 
and Lieutenant Kelly. These were collected through Dr. Tadamichi 
Koga, Director, Uyeno Zoological Garden, Tokyo, Japan. 

ACQUISITION OF SPECIMENS 

Specimens for the Zoo collection are acquired by gift, deposit, pur- 
chase, and births or hatchings. While depositors are at liberty to 
remove the specimens that they deposit with the Zoo, many leave 
the specimens for the rest of their lives. 

During the year the Zoo received a number of shipments of live 
specimens by air without a single loss. Some of these animals were 
rare or delicate, and had they been transported by the usual means. 



94 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTirCTTION, 1947 

might have died en route. The experiences of other zoos and animal 
dealers have been similarly successful, suggesting that shipment of 
live animals by air may be the most satisfactory method. 

DEPOSITOEB AJSD DONOBS AND THETB aiTTe 

Abrahamian, S. M., Washington, D. C, Pekin duck. 

Acorn Pet and Gift Shop, Washington, D. C, 2 canary X siskin hybrids, 2 cockatiels. 

Alaska Game Commission and U. S. Fish and Wildlife Service, Alaska brown 

bear. 
Allison, Mrs. E. K., Washington, D. 0., ring-necked dove, 
Alston, Herbert, Washington, D. C, woodcock- 
Australia, People of, through U. S. Navy, great gray kangaroo. 
Bader, J., Washington, D. C, 2 domestic rabbits. 
Baum, Louis, Alexandria, Va., 2 doves. 
Beale, Mrs. S. H., Washington, D. C, 2 snapping turtles. 
Benedict, Mrs. Jeanne, Washington, D. C, box turtle. 
Berry, Lewis, Detective Bureau, Metropolitan Police Department, Washington, 

D. C, 4 horned lizards. 
Best, Mrs. Richard, Washington, D. C, sulphur-crested cockatoo. 
Billoch, J., Washington, D. C, double yellow-headed parrot. 
Blanchette, Richard, Takoma Park, Md., snapping turtle. 
Boldridge, Dr. F, M., Chester, S. C, chain king snake. 
Brady, Morris K., Washington, D. C, 13 red and black frogs. 
Brewster, Kingman, Washington, D. C, 2 wild turkeys. 
Brown, Rev. Dillard, Washington, D. C, 5 ring-necked doves. 
Brown, Robert Y., Department of State, Washington, D. C, 46 little spotted 

tinamou,* 5 great tinamou.* 
Burr, Donald H., Washington, D. C, pine or fence lizard. 
Calvin, Mrs. B. F., Daniels Park, Md., 2 Pekin ducks. 
Campbell, George R., Detroit, Mich., corn snake, chicken snake. 
Carey, Maj. T. J., % Postmaster, New Orleans, La., douroucouli or owl monkey. 
Carlson, R. S., Edgewater, Md., Pekin duck. 
Carson, James, Alexandria, Va., mole. 
Cedar Hill Bird Farm, Landover, Md., screech owl, robin. 
Chappell, Ricliard H., Chief, Probation Court, Washington, D. C, domestic 

rabbit. 
Clow, Jakle, Chevy Chase, Md., Pekin duck. 
Coker, James L., Arlington, Va., horned lizard. 
Cook, Jay E., Baltimore, Md., 32 African clawed frogs.* 
Coolidge, Belle, Washington, D. C, domestic rabbit. 
Cowell, Jerry, Greenbelt, Md., spectacled caiman. 
Cox, T. S., Arlington, Va., alligator. 

Cullen, Rev. U. G., Woodstock College, Woodstock, Md., copi)erhead snake. 
Deese, Joe, Bethesda, Md., rhesus monkey,* woodchuck or ground hog.* 
Dunitum, Gratz D., Alexandria, Va., American coot. 
Dunlap, Capt. S. A., U. S. Embassy, Buenos Aires, Argentina, Argentine tree frog, 

18 grass paroquets. 
Duryel, Dr. William R., Washington, D. C, 75 red salsimanders.* 
BUer, A., Falls Church, Va., Pekin duck. 

Fleming, A. L., Falls Church, Va., Mississippi mud turtle, pilot snake. 
Foellmer, John and Richard, Washington, D. C, 2 Pekin ducks. 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 95 

Fohel, Arthur, Williamstown, N. J., green grass etiake. 

Ford, B. F., Aspin Hill, Md., 2 sparrow hawkg. 

Fowler, James H., Chevy Chase, Md., Texas diamond-backed rattlesnake. 

Freeman, Mrs. J. W., Washington, D. C, 2 Pekin ducks. 

Gala, Mrs. M., Washington, D. C, Pekin duck X mallard duck hybrid. 

Garrett, William S., Richmond, Va., double yellow-headed parrot 

Gazin, Max, WasMngron, D. C, Pekin duck. 

George, Miss Jean, Washington, D. C, red I'ox. 

Gildea, Mrs. James E., Arlington, Va., 2 Pekin ducka 

Glover, E. L., Washington, D. C, American bittern.* 

Goddard, Don, Wilson Teachers College, Washington, D. C, 2 golden hamsters.* 

Goeller, John, Washington, D. C, golden hamster. 

Gowanloch, James Nelson, Louisiana Department of Wildlife and Fisheries, New 

Orleans, La., 3 Troost's turtles (including 2 albinos).* 
Greenberg, Albert, Tampa, Fla., G climbing perch, 12 blind cave fish. 
Guliek, Mrs. Dorothy, Silver Spring, Md., 3 Pekin ducks. 
Haggenmaker, Charles, Suitland, Md., barn owL 
Hanwood, Mrs. Virginia, Washington, D. C, 2 Pekin ducks. 
Harper, Donald W., Kensington, Md., pilot snake. 
Harrell, R. O., South Boston, Va., rhesus monkey. 
Hart, Joseph F., Washington, D. C, sparrow hawk. 
Hartgroves, Bill, Kensington, Md., painted turtle. 
Hayes, Mrs. William J., Washington, D. C, Pekin duck. 
Hegener Research, Sarasota, Fla., 6 hutias. 
Heinz, J. E., Washington, D. C, Pekin duck. 
Hersey, Lt. J., Arlington, Va., yellow-headed parrot. 
Hines, Mrs. M., Hyattsville, Md., diamond dove, Cuban ground dove, Cuban 

tanager. 
Hubbs, C. L., La Jolla, Calif., 3 homed lizards, 
Hughes, Charles, Silver Spring, Md., pilot snake. 
Hughes, Thomas, Middletown, Del., sharp-shinned hawk. 
Hummel, David, Arlington, Va., titl monkey.* 

Ingham, Rex, Rutfin, N. C, Eastern chipmunk,* raccoon,* Swainson's hawk.*" 
Jackley, A. M., Director, Reptile Control, Department of Agriculture, Pierre, 

S. Dak., 2 northern horned lizards. 
Jessup, Gordon L., Washington, D. C, pilot snake. 
Johnson, Cleris, Washington, D. C., barn owl. 
Jones, Mrs. R., Arlington, Va., weasel. 
Kelley, Miss Karen, Alexandria, Va., opossum. 
Kennard, Fred E., Hyattsville, Md., 2 muscovy ducks. 
Kimbell, Charles Lee, Hyattsville, Md., 2 horned lizards. 
Kincannon, W. Oliver, Chevy Chase, Md., 5 game fowl.* 
Klemetsen, P. N., Washington, D. C, alligator. 
Knop, P. T., Wa.shington, D. C, 5 box turtles. 
Koerdel, Dr. Manuel-Malduado, Mexico, 5 axolotls. 
Kramer, Miss G. A., Washington, D. C, Pekin duck. 

Latona, Richard J., Washington, D. C, painted turtle, Cumberland terrapin. 
Lee, Jimmie, Wasliington, D. C, alligator. 
Leibel, Mrs. Leroy, Washington, D. C, grass paroquet. 
Leibold, Gordon M., Chevy Chase, Md., Florida king snake. 
Lemieux, Jerry, Washington, D. C, muscovy duck. 
Lund, Ruth and Diane, Washington, D. C, 2 Pekin ducks. 

•Deposits. 



96 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947 

Mackey, Helen N., Washington, D. C, Pekin duck. 

Majawer, Mrs. Lilly, Washington, D. C, cardinal. 

Markwith, Carl, Washington, D. C, domestic rabbit. 

Mattingly, W. E., Washington, D. C, 4 bantam fowl. 

Maurer, Misses Nan and Patsy Lou, Arlington, Va., 2 domestic rabbits. 

Mayer, J. D., Silver Spring, Md., 2 Pekin ducks. 

McCrnssin, Broderick, Eockville, Md., 2 ring-necked pheasants. 

McDonald, Erling, Takoma Park, Md., muscovy ducks, screech owl. 

McKay, Raymond J., Washington, D. C, white-throated capuchin. 

Melville, E., Falls Church, Va., 3 Pekin ducks. 

Meyer, J. L., Silver Spring, Md., 2 Pekin dncks. 

Michel, Mr., Washington, D. C, Pekin duck. 

Miller, W. C, Front Royal, Va., 2 great horned owls. 

Miller, William H., Washington, D. C, Pekin duck. 

Miller, William W., Washington, Va., barn owl. 

Milne, A. M., Bethesda, Md., Pekin duck. 

Mitchell, Shirley J., Washington, D. C, rhesus monkey. 

Moise, Lawrence L., Washington, D. C, screech owl. 

Montague, Mrs. Claude, Washington, D. C, 2 grass paroquets. 

Moore, C. C, Washington, D. C, 14 grass paroquets. 

Naval Research Center, Bethesda, Md., rhesus monkey.* 

Nelson, Mrs. R. W., Coolidge High School, Washington, D. C, green tree frog. 

Newill, Dr. D. S., Connellsville, Pa., 34 ocellated turkeys,* Reeves' pheasant, red 
jungle fowl, Swinhoe's pheasant, Nepal kaleege. 

Old, W. E., Jr., Norfolk, Va., 9 water moccasins. 

Orndorff, Mrs. B. F., Berwyn, Md., 3 Pekin ducks. 

Perkins, J. E., Back Bay National Wildlife Refuge, Pungo, Va., snow goose 

Perry, Mrs., Washington, D. C, loggerhead turtle. 

Poe, Mrs. H. C, Washington, D. C, domestic rabbit. 

Poiley, S. M., National Institute of Health, Bethesda, Md., 20 golden hamsters, 
cotton rat. 

Potter, Lincoln, Chevy Chase, Md., opossum. 

Prestor, Mrs. P. D., Gage School, Washington, D. C, 3 golden hamsters.* 

Pupils of the Okayama-Ken Grammar Schools, throu.ali Brig. Gen. John W. 
O'Brien, Chief, Scientific and Technical Division, GHQ, SCAP, and Dr. Austin 
Brues and Lieutenant Kelly, collected through Dr. Tadamichi Kogo, Director 
of the Uyeno Zoological Garden, Tokyo, Japan, 5 giant Japanese salamanders. 

Quinter, M. G., Chevy Chase» Md., Pekin duck. 

Raccie, Eugene J., Washington, D. C, golden pheasant. 

Reed, Vernon, Washington, D. C, Pekin duck. 

Remsen, Mrs. D., 2 skunks. 

Riddel, Mrs. W. E., Hyattsville, Md., sparrow hawk. 

Robert, Miss Alice B., water snake.* 

Rowe, Mr. and Mrs. R. F., Washington, D. C, 2 ringed warbling linches. 

Roys, Harold, Sheffield, Mass., 2 timber rattlesnakes. 

Ruhe, Louis, New York, N. Y., rat snake, frog, eyra or yaguarondi.* 

Ruhel, Miss Mary L., Washington, D. 0., queen or moon snake. 

Sakell, Ronald, Washington, D. C, 2 white mice. 

Sardo, Mrs. William, Silver Spring, Md., Pekin duck. 
Sawyer, T. R., Alexandria, Va., crab-eating macaque. 
Scaramuzza, L. C, Habana, Cuba, short-legged lizard. 
Schaefer, Ronald L., Washington, D. 0., box turtle. 

♦Deposits. 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 97 

Schaub, Mrs. Anna E., Washington, D. C, double yellow-beaded parrot. 

Shaffer, W. W., Hobbs, Md., Arabian gazelle. 

Shannon, Mrs. Frank, Washington, D. C, 2 Pekin ducks. 

Shields ,William S., Greenbelt, Md., blue jay. 

Shostick, Robert, Washington, D. C, green snake. 

Silverman, Marion and Marlene, Washington, D. C, Pekin duck. 

Simpson, Mrs. Lillie W., Washington, D. C, domestic guinea pig. 

Slagle, Bobby, Lubbuck, Tex., G horned lizards. 

Smith, Mrs. H., Washington, D. C, blue jay. 

Smith, Margaret C, V.'ashiugton, D. C, 11 hooded laboratory rats. 

Snider, Mrs. George P., Silver Spring, Md., Pekin duck, 

Snyder, Freeman W., Washington, D. C, 3 red foxes. 

Spates, W. E., Jr., Washington, D. C, Pekin duck. 

Spiney. Mr., Washington, D. C., tarantula. 

Springer, Harriet R., Washington, D. C, 2 Pekin ducks. 

Stone, Carl G., Silver Spring, Md., red-bellied woodpecker, 2 painted turtles, spot- 
ted turtle, box turtle. 

Stroman, H. R., Jr., Washington, D. C, 2 Pekin ducks. 

Stultz, Robert, Falls Church, Va., pilot snake. 

Taurman, Bert, Richmond, Va., 2 red-shouldered hawks. 

Taylor, L. S., Bethesda, Md., 2 Pekin ducks. 

Thirteenth Police Precinct, Washington, D. C, 2 chain king snakes. 

Thomas, J., Washington, D. C, canary. 

Thomas, Jeanette, Washington, J). C., 2 domestic rabbits. 

Thomas, Dr. W. B. S., Dover-Foxcroft, Maine, 2 garter snakes, 2 green frogs. 

Three Oaks Bird Farm, Hyattsville, Md., 10 domestic pigeons. 

Tinsman, L. T., Washington, D. C„ white-tufted marmoset.* 

Trible, W. E., Washington, D. C, 2 Pekin ducks. 

Tureman, Dr. G. 11., Sandston, Va., gray fox. 

Turner, William, Vv'estwood, Md., duck hawk.* 

U. S. Antarctic Expedition 1940-19^7, through Admiral Richard E. Byrd, 2 emperor 
penguins, 1^ macaroni penguins, 6 rock-hopper pengniu.s, 2 black swans. 

U. S. S. Mount Oliimpus, through courtesy of Admiral Richaid E. P.yrd and careful 
care of Mr. Jack Perkins, collected by crew members of the U. S. S. Currituck, 
under command of Capt. J. E. Clark, 2 adelie penguins. 

Walker, Mrs. C. G., Clifton, Va., pilot snake. 

Wells, Mrs. Charles, Washingron, D. C, oppossum. 

Western, Lt. Comdr. O. C, U. S. N., Naval Medical School, Bethesda, Md., 2 
horned lizards. 

White House, Washington, D. C, domestic lamb.* 

Widman, R. D., Washington, D. C, Cumberland terrapin, painted turtle. 

Wilkins, O. L., Washington, D. C, black snake. 

Williamson, C, Wa.shington, D. C., hog-nosed snake, pilot snake, pigmy rattle- 
snake. 

Witt, Benton, Cabin John, Md., gray fox. 

Wood, J. S., Washington, D. C, 2 Pekin ducks. 

Young, Mrs. W., Takoma Park, Md., Pekin duck. 

Zardus, Maurice, Riverdale, Md., eastern diamond-backed rattlesnake, 2 copper- 
head snakes, cottonmouth moccasin, coral snake, 2 water snakes, 4 pigmy rat- 
tlesnakes. 

Zetek, James, Balboa. C. Z., 53 yellow atelorms, 100 arrow-poison frogs, 10 basilisks. 

Zinkham, Dr. and Mrs. A. M., Washington, D. C, horned lizard. 

• Deposits. 



98 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947 

BIRTHS AND HATCHINGS 

MAMMALS 
Sdentific name Common name Number 

Ammotragus lervia Aoudad 3 

Axis axis Axis deer 2 

Bihos gaurus Gaur_„ 1 

Bison bison American bison 3 

Bos iaurus British Park cattle 1 

Capromys pilorides Hutia 4 

Cebus capucinus White-throated capuchin 1 

Cercopithecua aethiops sabaeus X C.a. Hybrid green guenon X vervet 

pygerythrus. guenon 1 

Cervus canadensis American elk 1 

Cervus nippon Japanese deer 1 

Cheropsis liberiensis Pigmy hippopotamus 1 

Cynomys ludovicianus Plains prairie dog 8 

Dama dama Fallow deer 2 

Dama dama White fallow deer 2 

Dasyproda prymnolopha Agouti 1 

Felis concolor Puma 3 

Giraffa camelopardalis Nubian gira£Fe 1 

Hippopotamus amphibius Hippopotamus 1 

Lama glama gvanicoe Guanaco 1 

Odocoileus virginianus Virginia deer 2 

Ovis europaea Mouflon 1 

Periodicticus potto Potto 1 

Poephagus grunniens Yak 1 

Procyon lotor Raccoon 2 

Thalarctos mariiimus X Urstis middendorjji. Hybrid bear 2 

BIRDS 

Anas platyrhynchos Mallard duck 45 

Chenopis atrata Black swan 6 

Fulica americana American coot 4 

Gallus sp Fighting fowl 12 

Gallus gallus Red jungle fowl 8 

Pavo cristatns Peafowl 7 

TurtuT risorius Ring-necked dove 18 

REPTILES 

Agkistrodon hilineatus. Mexican moccasin 17 

Epicrates cenchris Rainbow boa 12 

Natrix sp Water snake 20 

Sceloporus undulatus Pine or fence lizard 6 

MOLLXTSKS 

Achatina achaiina Giant land snail 5 



The birth of the rainbow boas makes the third generation in the 
Zoo, their grandparents having been brought from British Guiana 
in 1931. 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 99 

ANIMALS IN THE NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK, JUNE 30, 1947 

MAMMALS 
MARSUPIALIA 
Scientific name Common name Nuiaber 

Didelphiidae: 

Difielphis virginiana Opossum — 3 

Phalangeridae: 

Petaurus breviceps Lesser flying phalanger. 2 

Macropodidae: 

Dendrolagus inustus New Guinea tree kangaroo — . 2 

Phascolomyidae : 

Vombattis ursinus Flinders Island wombat _- 1 

INSECTIVOKA 

Erinaceidae: 

Erinaceus europaeus European hedgehog 4 

CARNIVORA 

Felidae: 

Felis chaus Jungle cat . 1 

Felis concolor Puma 7 

Felis concolor paiagonica Patagonian puma 1 

Felis concolor X F.c. patagonica Hybrid North American X 

South American puma 4 

Felis ho Lion 3 

_ ,. fJaguar 3 

Felts onca i^, , . , 

[Black jaguar 1 

Felis pardalis Ocelot 2 

-, -. , [Indian leopard 1 

^ [Black Indian leopard 2 

Felis lemminckii Golden cat 1 

Felia tigris Bengal tiger 2 

Felis tigris longipilis Siberian tiger 1 

Felis tigris sumatrae Sumatran tiger 3 

Herpailurus yaguarondi Eyra or yaguarondi 1 

Lynx rufus , Bay lynx 1 

Oncifelis geoffroyi Geoffrey's cat 3 

Oncilla pardinoides Ijesser tiger cat 1 

Viverridae: 

Ardictis hiniurong Binturong 1 

Civetlictis civetla African civet 1 

Myonax sanguineus Dwarf civet 1 

Paradoxurus hermaphroditus Small-toothed palm civet 3 

Hj'aenidae: 

Crocuta crocuta germinans East African spotted hyena 1 

Canidae: 

Canis dingo Dingo 2 

Canis latrans Coyote 1 

Canis latrans X familiaris Coyote and dog hybrid 1 

Canis lupus nubilus „__ Plains wolf 2 

Canis niger rufus Texas red wolf 1 

Cuon javanicus sumatrensis Sumatran wild dog 1 



100 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947 

Bcientiflc name Common name Number 

Canidae — Continued 

Dusicyon (Cerdocyon) thous South American fox 1 

Nydereutes procyonoides Raccoon dog 2 

Urocyon cinereoargenteus Gray fox 10 

Vulpes fulva Red fox 11 

Procyonidae: 

Nasua narica Coatimundi , 9 

Nasua nasua Red coatimundi 1 

Nasua nelsoni Nelson's coatimundi 1 

Potos flavus Kinkajou , 5 

(Raccoon 3 

Black raccoon 4 

Raccoon (albino) 1 

Bassariscidae: 

Bassariscus astutus Ring-tail or cacomistle 2 

Mustelidae: 

Grisonella huronax Grison 1 

Luira canadensis vaga Florida otter 1 

Lutra (Micraonyx) cinerea Small-clawed otter 1 

Maries (Lamprogale) flavigula henricii Asiatic marten 1 

Meles meles leptorynchus Chinese badger 1 

Mellivora capensis Ratel 1 

Mephitis mephitis nigra Skunk 7 

Mustela eversmanni Ferret 1 

Mustela frennta noveboracensis Weasel 1 

Tayra barbara barbara White tayra 2 

Tayra barbara senilis Gi*ay-headed tayra 1 

Ursidae: 

Euarctos americanus Black bear 4 

Euarctos thibetanus Himalayan bear 1 

Helardos malayanus Malay or sun bear 1 

Melursus ur sinus Sloth bear 1 

Thalarctos niaritimus Polar bear 3 

Thalarctos maritimus X Ursus midden- 

dorffi, Hybrid bear 4 

Tremarctos ornatus Spectacled bear 1 

Ursus sp Alaska brown bear 1 

Ursus ardos European brown bear 1 

Ursus ardos meridionalis Caucasas brown bear 1 

Ursus gyas Alaskan Peninsula bear 2 

Ursus middendorffi Kodiak bear 3 

Ursus sitkensis Sitka brown bear 3 

PINNIPEDIA 

Otariidae: 

Zalophus californianus Sea lion 2 

Phocidae: 

Phoca vitulina richardii Pacific harbor seal 2 

PRIMATES 

Lemuridae: 

Galago demidovii Least galago 1 

Lemur mongoz Mongoose lemur 2 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 101 

Sc-ientiflo name Common name Number 

Saimiridae: 

Saimiri sciure^is Titi monkey 2 

Cebidae: 

Aotus irivirgatiis Douroucouli or owl monkey _ . 5 

Ateles geoffroyi vellerosus Spider monkey 8 

Cebus apella Gray capuchin 2 

Cehus cap7icinus White-throated capuchin 3 

Cehus faluellus Weeping capuchin 3 

Lagothrix lagotricha Woolly monkey 1 

Cercopithecidae : 

Cercocebus aterrimvs Black-crested mangabey 1 

Cercocebus fuliginosus Sooty mangabey 2 

Cercocebus torquatus lunulatus White-crowned mangabey 1 

Cercopilheciis aeihicps pygerythrus Vervet gueuon 2 

Cercopiihecus aethiops sahu.eus Green gueuon 8 

CercGpithecus aetJuops sabaeris X C. py- Hybrid green guenon X vervet 

gerythrus. guenon 1 

Cercopiihecus cephus Moustached guenon ._ 2 

Cercopithecus diana Diana monkey 3 

Ceropithecxis diana Toloway Roloway monkej' 1 

Cercopithecus neglectus De Brazza's guenon 1 

CercopiOiecus rnctitans pelaurista Lesser v/hite-nosed guenon 2 

Cercopiihecus sp West African guenon 1 

Erythrocebus patas Patas monkey 1 

Gymnopyga maurus Moor monkey 1 

Macaca irus mordax Javan macaque 6 

Macaca lasiotis Chinese macaque 1 

Macaca tnulatta Rhesus monkey 13 

Macaca nemestrina Pig-tailed monkey 2 

Macaca vhilippinensis PhiUppine macaque 4 

Macaca silene Wanderoo monkey 2 

Macaca sinica Toque or bonnet monkey 

Macacus irus Crab-eating macaque 

Hylobatidae: 

Hylobatcs agilis Sumatran gibbon 

Hylobates agilis X H. lar pileatus Hybrid gibbon 

Hylobates hooluck Hoolock gibbon 

Hylobates lar pileatus Black-capped gibbon 

Symphalangus syndactylus Siamang gibbon 

Pongidae: 

Pan troglodytes verus Vv'est African chimpanzee 2 

RODENTIA 

Sciuridae: 

Citellus beecheyi douglasii Douglas ground squirrel 3 

Cynomys ludovicianus Plains prairie dog 56 

Funisciurus leucostigma West African bush squirrel 3 

Glaucomys volans Flying squirrel 7 

Mcrm.ota monox Woodchuck or ground hog 4 

Tamias striatus Eastern chipmunk 1 

Heteromyidae: 

Dipodo?nys ordii Ord kangaroo rat 3 



102 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITXJTION, 1947 

Scientific name Common nome Numter 

Cricetidae: 

Mesocricetus auratus Golden hamster 7 

Peromyscus leucopus White-footed or deer mouse.. 7 

Sigrnodon hispidua Cotton rat 1 

Muridae: 

Meriones unguiculatus Mongolian gerbil 1 

Mua musculus White and other domestic 

mice 12 

Rattus norvegicus . Hooded laboratory rat 11 

Hystricidae: 

Acanthion brachyurum Malay porcupine . 3 

Atherurus africanus West African brush-tailed por- 
cupine 3 

Thecums crassispinis aumairae Thick-spined porcupine 1 

Myocastoridae: 

Myocastor coypus Coypu 5 

Capromyidae: 

Capromys pilorides Hutia 5 

Dasyproctidae: 

Dasyprocta prymnolopha Agouti 1 

Dasyprocia punctata Speckled agouti 3 

Chinchillidae: 

Chinchilla chinchilla Chinchilla 4 

Lagidium viscaccia Peruvian viscacha 5 

Caviidae: 

Cavia porcellus Guinea pig 3 

Dolichotis patagona Patagonian cavy 1 

LAOOMORPHA 

Lepondae: 

Oryctolagus cuniculus Domestic rabbit 5 

^ . , ARTIODACTYLA 

Bovidae: 

Ammotragus lervia Aoudad 17 

Anoa fergusoni Mountain anoa „ 1 

Bibos gaurus Gaur 3 

„. ,. f American bison 13 

Bisonbison w,. . ,. 

(Albmo bison 1 

Bo3 indicus Zebu 4 

Bos taurus Domestic cow (Jersey) 1 

Bos taurus West Highland or Kyloe cattle. 4 

Bos tarus British Park cattle 6 

Bubalus bubalis Water buffalo 2 

Capra sibirica Ibex 1 

Cephalophus maxwellii Maxwell's duiker 1 

Cephalophus niger Black duiker 1 

Cephalophus nigrifrons Black-fronted duiker 2 

Hemiiragus jemlahicus Tahr 5 

Oryx leucoryx Arabian oryx 2 

Ovis aries Woolless or Barbados sheep 1 

Ovis europaea Moufion 4 

Poephagus grunniens Yak 6 

Pseudois nayaur Bharal or blue sheep 1 

Syncerua caffer African buffalo 2 

Taurotragui oryx...^ ^ * Eland - 2 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY ' 103 

Scientific name Common name Number 

Cervidae: 

Axis axis Axis deer 5 

Cervus canadensis American elk 5 

Cervus elaphus Red deer 4 

Cervus nippon Japanese deer 5 

Cervus nippon manchuricus Dybowsky deer 2 

J. , I Fallow deer 13 

[White fallow deer 15 

Odocoileus virginianus -._ Virginia deer 6 

GirafBdae: 

Girajja camelopardalis Nubian giraflfe 4 

Girajfa reticulata Reticulated giraffe 1 

Camelidae; 

Camelus bactrianus Bactrian camel 3 

Camelus dromedarius Single-humped camel 1 

Lama glama Llama 1 

Lama glama guanico Guanaco 3 

Lama pacos Alpaca 2 

Vicugna vicugna, Vicufia „_... 1 

Tayassuidae: 

Pecari angulatus Collared peccary 1 

Suidae: 

Babirussa babyrussa Babirussa 2 

Phacochoerus aethiopicus aeliani East African wart hog 2 

Sua scrofa European wild boar 2 

Hippopotamidae : 

Choeropsis liberiensis Pigmy hippopotamus 6 

Hippopotamus amphibius Hippopotamus. 2 

PEBISSODACTYLA 

Equidae: 

Equus burchellii anliquorum Chapman's zebra 2 

Equus grevyi X caballus Zebra-horse hybrid 1 

Equan kiang Asiatic wild asa or kiang 1 

Equus onager Onager 1 

Equus przewalskii Mongolian wild horse 3 

Equus zebra Mountain zebra 1 

Tapiridae: 

Acrocodia indica Asiatic tapir 2 

Rhinocerotidae: 

Rhinoceros unicornis Great Indian one-horned rhi- 
noceros 1 



PROBOSCIDAE 

Elephantidae: 

Elephas maximus sumntranus Sumatran elephant 1 

Loxodonta ojricana oxyotis African elephant 1 

EDENTATA 

Dasypodidae: 

Chaelophr actus villosus Hairy armadillo 1 

Euphractus sexcinctus Six-banded armadillo 1 

Myrmecophagidae: 

Myrmecophaga tridactyla Giant anteater 1 

777488— 4& 8 



104 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947 

BIRDS 

STRUTHIONIFORMES 

Scientific name Common name Number 

Stnitbionidae: 

Struthio camelus Ostrich 2 

HHEIFORMES 

Rheidae: 

Rhea americana Common rhea 3 



CASUAEIIFORMES 

Casuariidae: 

Casuarius casuarius aruensis Aru cassowary 1 

Casuarius nniappendiculatus occipitalis Island cassowary 1 

Casuarixis uniappendiculatus uniappendi- 

clatus One-wattled cassowary 1 

Dromiceiidae: 

Dromiceius novaehollandiae Common emu 2 

SPHENISCIFORME 

Spheniscidae: 

Aptenodytes forsteri Emperor penguin 1 

Eudyptes chrysolophus Macaroni penguin 11 

Eudyptes crisfatus Rock-hopper penguin 2 

TINAMIFORMES 

Tinamidae: 

Nothura maculosa Spotted tinamou _ _ 2 



PELECANIFORMES 

Pelecanidae: 

Pelecanns calif ornicus California brown pelican 2 

Pelecanus erythrorhynckus White pelican 5 

Pelecanns cccidentalis Brown pelican 3 

Pelecanus roseus Rose-colored pelican 4 

PI) alacr ocoracidae : 

Phalacrocorax aiiritus albociliatvs Farallon cormorant 1 

CICONIIFORMES 

Ardeidae: 

Ardea herodias Great blue heron 2 

Ardea occidentalis Great white heron 1 

Egrelta thula Snowy egret 5 

Hydranassa tricolor rvficollis Louisiana heron 1 

Notophoyx novaehollandiae White-faced heron 1 

Nyctanassa violacea cayennensis South American yellow- 
crowned night heron 1 

Nycticorax nycticorax naevius Black-crowned night heron 30 

Cochleariidae: 

Cochlearius cochlearius Boatbill heron 1 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 105 

Scientific name Common name Number 

Ciconiidae: 

Dissoura episcopus Woolly-necked stork 1 

Ibis cinereus Malay stork 2 

Jahiru myderia Jabiru 3 

Leptopiilus crumenijerus Marabou 1 

Lcptoptilus duhius Indian adjutant 1 

Leptopiilus javanicus Lesser adjutant 2 

Myderia americana Wood ibis 1 

Threskiornithidae : 

Ajnia ajaja Roseate spoonbill 4 

Guara alha White ibis 8 

Gxiara alba X 0. rubra Hybrid white and scarlet ibis. 1 

Guara rubra Scarlet ibis 1 

Threskiornis melanocephaUi Black-headed ibis 4 

Threskiornis spinicollis Straw-necked ibis 2 

Phoenicopteridae : 

Phoenicopterus chilensis Chilean flamingo 2 

Phneuicopterus ruber Cuban flamingo 1 

ANSERIFORMES 

Anhimidae: 

Chauna chavaria White-cheeked screamer 1 

Chauna torquata Crested screamer 7 

Anatidae: 

Aic sponsa„ Wood duck 8 

Anas bahamensis Bahama pintail 2 

Anas domeslica Pekin duck 51 

Anas domestica X A. plaiyrhynchos Pekin duck X mallard duck 

hybrid 1 

Anas platyrhynchos Mallard duck 57 

Anas rubripes Black duck 6 

Anser aibifrons American white-fronted goose. 1 

Anser cinereus domestica Toulouse goose 2 

Anseranus semipalmata Australian pied goose 2 

Branta canadensis Canada goose 20 

Branta canaden&is occidentalis White-cheeked goose 24 

Branta canadensis X Chen caeridescens Hybrid Canada goose X blue 

goose 2 

Branta huichinsii Hutchin's goose 4 

Branta huichinsii minima Cackling goose 6 

Cairina moschata Muscovy duck 12 

Cereopsis novaehollandiae Cape Barren goose 1 

Chen atlantica _ Snow goose 4 

Chen caerulescens Blue goose 3 

Chenopis atraia Black swan 12 

Chlocphaga leucoptera Magellan goose 1 

Coscoroba coscoroba Coscoroba 2 

Cygnopsis cygnoides Domestic goose 1 

Cygniis columbinnus Whistling swan 2 

Cygnus melancoriphus Black-necked awan 1 

Cygnus olor Mute swan 2 

Dafila acuta Pintail 10 



108 ANNUAL liEPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 194 7 

Scientific name Common name Numier 

Anatidae — Continued 

Dafila spinicauda Chilean pintail 1 

Dendrocygna arborea Black-biiled tree duck 3 

Dendrocygna viduata White-faced tree duck 2 

Dendronessa galericulata Mandarin duck 4 

Mareca americana Baldpate 1 

Marila affinis Lesser scaup 1 

Marila collaris Ring-necked duck 2 

Metopiana peposaca Rosy-billed pouchard 3 

Netlion carolinense Green-winged teal. _ 2 

Netlion Jormosum Baikal teal 3 

Nyroca sp Hybrid duck 1 

Nyroca valisineria Canvasback duck 1 

Philade canagica Emperor goose __ 2 

Querquedula discors. Blue-winged teal 2 

FALC0N1F0RME8 

Cathartidae: 

Cathartes aura Turkey vulture 1 

Coragyps atralus... Black vulture 3 

Sarcoramphus papa King vulture 2 

Vultur gryphus Andean condor 1 

Sagittariidae: 

Sagittarius serpentarius Secretary bird 2 

Aocipitridae: 

Accipiter striatus velox Sharp-shinned hawk 1 

Buteo jamaicensis Red-tailed hawk 6 

Buteo Uneatus elegans Southern red-shouldered hawk. 1 

Buteo Uneatus Uneatus Red-shouldered hawk 3 

Buteo melanoleucus South American buzzard eagle. 2 

Buteo platypterus Broad-winged hawk 1 

Buteo poecilochrous Red-backed buzzard 2 

Buteo swainsoni Swainson's hawk I 

Gypohierax angolensis „_ Ficsh-eating vulture 1 

Gyps fulvus Griffon vulture 1 

Gyps rueppelU Ruppell's vulture 2 

HaUaedus hucocephalus Bald eagle 5 

HaUaaiur indus Brahminy kite 5 

Harpia harpya Harpy eagle 2 

Milvago chimango Chimaugo 3 

Milvus migrans parasitus African yellow-billed kite 2 

Pandion haUaetus caroUnensis Osprey or fish hawk 1 

Parabuteo unicinctus One-banded hawk 1 

Sarcogyps calvus Indian Pondicherry vulture — 1 

Spiziastur melanoleucus Black and white hawk eagle.. 1 

Torgos tracheliofus African eared vulture ^- 1 

Falconidae: 

Dapiriua americanus Red-throated caracara 3 

Faico mexicanus Prairie falcon 1 

Falco peregrinua anatum Duck hawk 1 

Falco sparr.erius _ Sparrow hawk 11 

Falco sparverius inter aedius South American sparrow hawk. 1 

Polyborus plancus South American caracara 1 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 107 

GALLIFORMES 

Scientific name Common namo Number 

Cracidae: 

Crax fasciolata Created curassow 2 

Crax rubra Panama curassow 1 

Mitu mitu Razor-billed curassow 2 

Phasianidae: 

Argusianus argus , Argus pheasant., 2 

Catreus wallichii Cheer pheasant 1 

Chrysolophus amherstiae Lady Amherst's pheasant 1 

Chrysolophus pidus Golden pheasant 4 

Colinus cristatus Crested quail 1 

Crossoptilon auritum Blue-eared pheasant 1 

Gallus sp Bantarn chicken 4 

Gallus vsp Game fowl „ 8 

Gailus sp Oriental silky bantam fowl 6 

Gallus sp Fighting fowl 8 

Gallus sp Long-tailed fowl 1 

Gallus gallus Red jungle fowl 9 

Gallus gallus hybrid Hybrid red jungle fowl X 

bantam fowl 4 

Gallus lafayetii Ceylonese jungle fowl 1 

Gallua sonneraiii Gray jungle fowl 1 

Gennaeus nlbocristatus White-crested kaleege 2 

Gennaeus leucomelanus Nepal kaleege 2 

Gennaeus nycihemerus Silver pheasant 3 

Hierophasis swinhoii Swinhoe's pheasant 2 

Lophophorus impeyanus Himalayan impeyan pheasant. 1 

Pavo cristatus Peafowl 8 

Phasianus torquatus Ring-necked pheasant 3 

Polyplectron napoleonis Palawan peacock pheasant 1 

Syrmaticus reevesi Reeve's pheasant 2 

Numididae; 

Acryllium vulturinum Vulturine guinea fowl 1 

Numida sp Guinea fowl 2 

Meleagrididae : 

Agriocharis ocellata ._. Ocellated turkey 4 

Meleagris gallopavo Wild turkey 2 

Meleagris galloparo var Domestic turkey 1 

_, , , GKUIF0RME8 

Gruidae: 

Anthropoides virgo Demoiselle crane 2 

Balearica pavonina West African crowned crane __ 2 

Balearica regulorum gibhericeps East African crowned crane... J 

Grus leucauchen White-naped crane 1 

Grus leucogeranus Siberian crane 2 

Psophiidae: 

Psophia leucoptera White-backed trumpeter 2 

Rallidae: 

Atnaurornis phoenicurus White-breasted rail 1 

Aramides cajanea Wood rail 2 

Fulica americana American coot 14 

Gallinula chloropus cachinnans Florida gallinule 

Gallinula chloropus orientalis Sumatran gallinule 1 

Porphyrio poliocephalus Gray-headed porphyrio 23 



108 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947 

Scientific name Common name Number 

Cariamidae : 

Cariama cristata Cariama or seriema 2 

CHARADRIIFORMES 

Burhinidae: 

Burhinus histriatus South American thick-knee 2 

Haematopodidae : 

Haemato-pus ostralegus European oyster catcher 1 

Charadriidae: 

Belanopterus chilensis Chilean lapwing 2 

Laridae : 

Larus argentatus Herring gull 2 

Larus delawarensis Ring-billed gull 1 

Larus dominicanus Kelp gull 2 

Larus novaehollandiae Silver gull 7 

Glareolidae: 

Glareola -pratincola Collared pratincole 1 

COLUMBIFORMES 

Columbidae: 

Columba livia Domestic pigeon 12 

Ducula aenea Green imperial pigeon 1 

Gallicolumba luzonica Bleeding-heart dove 1 

Gallicolumba luzonica X Tiirtur risorius Bleeding-heart dove X ring- 
necked dove hybrid 2 

Geopelia cuneaia Diamond dove 1 

Goura victoria Victoria crowned pigeon 1 

Leptotila rufaxilla Scaled pigeon 1 

Muscadivores paulina Celebian imperial pigeon 1 

Streptopelia chinensis Asiatic collared dove 2 

Streptopelia chinensis ceylonensis Lace-necked or ash dove 1 

Streptopelia tranqiiebarica Blue-headed ring dove 2 

Turtur risorius Ring-necked dove 35 

Zenaida auriculata South America mourning dove. 3 

PSITTACIFORMES 

Psittacidae : 

Agapornis lilianae Peach-faced love bird 3 

A7nazona. aestiva Blue-fronted parrot 1 

Amazona auropalliata Yellow-naped parrot 3 

Amazona ochrocephala Yellow-headed parrot 3 

Amazona oratrix Double yellow-headed parrot 5 

Anodorhynchus kyacinthinus Hyacinthine macaw 1 

Ara ararauna Yellow and blue macaw 2 

Ara macao Red, blue, and yellow macaw.. 

Aratinga euops Cuban conure 

Aratinga perlinax Gray-headed conure 

Calyptorhynchus magnificus Banksian cockatoo 

Coracopsis nigra Lesser vasa parrot 

Cyanopsiltacus spixi Spix's macaw 

Diicorpsis sanguineus Bare-eyed cockatoo 

Eclectus pecioralis Eclectus parrot 

Eolophus roseicapillus Roseate cockatoo 

Kakatoe alba White cockatoo 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 109 

Scientific name Common name Number 

Psittacidac — Continued 

Kakaioi ducrops Solomon Islands cockatoo 2 

Kakatoe galerita Large sulphur-crested cocka- 
too 3 

Kakatoe leadbeateri Leadbeater's cockatoo 

Kakaloe moluccensla Great red-crested cockatoo 

Kakatoe sulphurea Lesser sulphur-crested cocka- 
too 

Lorius domicella Rajah lory 

Lorius garrulus Red lory 

Melopsittacus undulatus Grass paroquet 3 

Myopsitta monachus Quaker paroquet 

Nestor notabilis Kea 

Nymphicus hollandicus Cockatiel 

Pionites xanihoineria Amazonian caique 

Psittacula eupatria Red-shouldered paroquet 

Psittacula krameri Kramer's paroquet 

Psittacula longicauda Long-tailed paroquet 

CUCULIFORMES 

Cuculidae: 

Eudynamis scolopaceus Koel 1 

STRIGIFORMES 

Tytonidae: 

Tyto alba pratincola Barn ov/1 6 

Strigidae: 

Bubo virginianus Great horned owl 9 

Ketupa ketupa Malay fish ov/1 1 

Nyciea nijctea Snowy owl 1 

Otus asio Screech owl 2 

Strix varia varia Barred owl 6 

TROGONIFORMES 

Trogonidae: 

Pharomachrus viocino Quetzal 6 



CORACIIFOKMES 

Alcedinidae: 

Dacelo gigas Kookaburra 2 

Halcyon sa7ictus Sacred kingfisher 1 

Coraciidae: 

Anthracoceros coronatus Pied hornbill 2 

Tockus birostris Gray hornbill 2 

Momotidae: 

Momotus lessoni Motmot 1 

PICIFORMES 

Ramphastidae: 

Aulacorhynchus sulcatus sulcatus Groove-billed toucanet 1 

Pteroglossus aracari ._ Black-necked aracari 2 

Pteroglossus torquaius Aracari toucan 1 

Ramphasios carinatus Sulphur-breasted toucan 2 

Ramphaslos piscivorus Toco toucan 1 



110 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947 

PABSERIPOEMES 

llcientiflc name Common nffwe A'umbtr 

Cotingidae: 

Rupicola rupicola Cock-of-the-rock 2 

Pittidae: 

Pitta moluccensis Molucca pitta 2 

Corvidae: 

Callocitta formosa Mexican jay 1 

Cissa chinensis - Chinese cissa 2 

Cissilopha yucatanica Yucatan blue jay 4 

Corvus albus White-breasted crow 2 

Corvus brachyrhynchos American crow 3 

Corvus corax principalis Northern raven 2 

Corvus comix Hooded crow 1 

Corvus cryptoleucus White-necked raven 1 

Corvus insolens Indian crow 2 

Cyanocitta crislata Blue jay 2 

Cyanocorax chrysops Urraca jay 1 

Cyanopica cyana Azure-winged pie __ 1 

DendrociUa vagabunda Rufus tree pie 2 

Garrulus lanceolatus -._ - Black-throated jay 1 

Gymnorhina hypoleuca White-backed piping crow 1 

Pica pica hudsonica - American magpie... ._ 3 

Urocissa caerulea Formosan red-billed pie 2 

Uroci-ssa occipitalis Red-billed blue magpie 1 

Paradiseidae: 

Ailuroedud crassirostris Australian catbird. 1 

Ptilonorhynchus violaceus Satin bowerbird 1 

Timaliidae: 

Garrulax albigularis _ Asiatic laughing thrush 2 

Garrulax hicolor White-headed laughing thrush. 2 

Garrulax pectoralis picticollis Chinese collared laughing 

thrush 

Pycnonotidae: 

Pycnonotua analis Yellow-vented bulbul.. 

Mimidae: 

Melanotis caerulescens Blue catbird 

Mimue polyglottos leucopterus. Western mockingbird 

Turdidae: 

Platycichla flavipes Yellow-footed thrush 

Turdus grayi - Bonaparte's thrush 

Turdvs migratorius Eastern robin _. 

Turdus rufiventris Argentine robin 

Sturnidae: 

Galeopsar salvadorii. Crested starling 

Gracula religiosa Hill mynah 

Graculipica melanoptera White starling 

Pastor roseus Rosy pastor 

Sturnia malabarica... Pied mynah 2 

Sturnus vulgarus Starling 1 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY HI 

Scieniifto name Common nume Number 

Ploceidae: 

Aidemosyne cantans Tawny waxbill 4 

Aidetnosyne malabarica Indian silver-bill 2 

Aideinosyne modesta Pluiu-head finch 2 

Aluteranus cindus Parson finch 2 

Amadina fasciata Cut-throat weaver finch 17 

Amandava viandava Strawberry finch 3 

Cayleyna picta Painted finch 1 

Diatropura procne Giant whydah 2 

Estrilda sp Red-eared waxbill 8 

Estrilda cinerea Common waxbill 25 

Eupledes franciscana Bishop weaver 8 

Hypochera ultramarina Combasou or indigo bird 3 

Lagonostida senegalla..^ African fire finch 2 

Lonchura leucogaslroides Bengalee finch 3 

Munia maja White-headed munia 2 

Munia malacca Black-throated munia 1 

Munia oryzivora Java sparrow 3 

Munia pundulata Spice finch 3 

Neopoephila personata Masked finch 2 

Ploceus baya Baya weaver 3 

Ploceus intermedius Black-cheeked weaver 2 

Ploceui citellinua _ Vitelline masked weaver 7 

Poephila acuticauda Long-tailed finch 4 

Pocphila gouldiae Gouldian finch 4 

Quelea qucha Red-billed weaver 5 

Quelea qudea lathami Southern masked weaver 

finch .-_- - 2 

Sporaeginthus melopodus Orange-cheeked waxbill 60 

Steganura paradisea Paradise whydah 18 

Stidoptera bidienovii Binchenov's finch 2 

Taeniopygia casianotis Zebra finch 4 

Uraeginthus bengalvs Cordon blue finch 60 

Icteridae: 

Agelaius assimilis Cuban red-winged blackbird. _ 1 

Amblyrhamphvs holosericevs Scarlet-headed blackbird 1 

Gymnomystax mexicanus Giant oriole 1 

Iderus bullocki Bullock's troupial 1 

Notiopsar curaesus Chilean blackbird 2 

Trupialis defilippi Mihtary starling 4 

Xanthocephalus xanihocephalus Yellow-headed blackbird 2 

Thraupidae: 

Ramphocelus carbo Silver-beaked tanager 4 

Ramphocelus dimidiaiua Crimson tanager 2 

Ramphocelus flammigerus Yellow tanager 5 

Ramphocelus passerini Passerini tanager 1 

Tanagra darwini Darwin's tanager 2 

Thraupis cana ^_. Blue tanager 3 



112 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947 

Scientific name Commoti, name Number 

Fringillidae : 

Garpodacus mexicanus Mexican house finch 4 

Cyanocompsa argentina Argentine blue grosbeak 2 

Diuca diuca Diuca finch 14 

Junco hyemalis Slate-colored junco 1 

Lophospingus piisillus Black-crested finch 2 

Melopyrrha nigra Cuban bullfinch 2 

Melospiza melndia Song sparrow 1 

Paroaria cucullata Brazilian cardinal 1 

Paroaria gularis nigro-genis Black-eared cardinal 3 

Passerella iliaca Fox sparrow 1 

Passerina amoena Lazuli hunting., 1 

Passerina cyanea Indigo bunting 2 

Passerina ledancheri Leclancher's bunting 2 

Passerina versicolor Blue bunting 2 

Pheudicus aureoveniris Black and yellow grosbeak 2 

Phrygilus alaudinos Chilean lark finch„ _ „ 1 

Phrygilus fruticeti Mourning finch 4 

Phrygilus gayi Gay's graj'-headed finch 1 

Poospiza torguata Ringed warbUng finch 2 

Richmondina cardinalis Cardinal 3 

Serinus canarius Canary 4 

Serinus canarius X Carduelis mexicana Canary X siskin hybrid 2 

Serinus icterus Green singing finch 3 

Sicalis flaveola Mysto finch 3 

Sicalis luteola Saffron finch 3 

Spinus uropygialis Chilean siskin 1 

Sporophila aurita Hick's seed-eater 1 

Sporophila gutturalis Yellow-billed seed-eater 2 

Sporophila melanocephala Black-headed seed-eater 2 

Tiaris olivacea Mexican grassquit 5 

Volatinia jacarini Blue-black grassquit 1 

Zonotrichia albicollis W^iite-throated sparrow 4 

Zonoirichia capensis Chiugolo 1 

REPTILES 
LOKICATA 

Crocodylidae: 

Alligator mississipiensis Alligator 28 

Alligator sinensis Chinese alligator 3 

Caiman latirostris Broad-snouted caiman 1 

Caiman sclerops Spectacled caiman 3 

Crocodylus cataphractus Narrow-nosed crocodile 1 

Crocodylus niloticus African crocodile 2 

Crocodylus palustris "Toad" crocodile 2 

Crocodylus porosus Salt-water crocodile 1 

Crocodylus rhomhijer Cuban crocodile 1 

Osteolaemus tetraspis Broad-nosed crocodile 3 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 113 

SAURIA 

Scientific name Common name 'Numhrr 

Iguanldae: 

Basiliscus vittatus Basilisk 7 

Phrynosoma brevirostre Northern horned lizard 1 

Phrynosoma cornutum Horned lizard 6 

Sceloporus undulatus Pine or fence lizard 6 

Anguidae: 

Ophisaurus ventralis Legless lizard or glass "snake". 2 

Celestus sagraei.^ Sagra's skink 1 

Agamidae: 

Uromastix acanihinurus North African spiny-tailed 

lizard 1 

Helodermatidae: 

Heloderma horridum Mexican beaded lizard 2 

Heloderma suspedum Gila monster 5 

Teiidae: 

Tupinambis nigropundatus Black tegu 5 

Scincidae: 

Eumeces fasciahis Blue-tailed skink 2 

Tiliqua scincoides Blue-tongued lizard 2 

Varanidae: 

Varanus komodoensis Komodo dragon 1 

Varanus monitor Indian monitor 1 

Varanus salvator Sumatran monitor 3 

Zonuridae: 

Zonurus giganteus African spiny lizard 2 

SEKPENTES 

Boidae: 

Constridor consiridor Boa constrictor 1 

Constridor imperator Central American boa 8 

Epicrates cenchris Rainbow boa 13 

Epicrates crassus Salamanta 1 

Epicrates striatus Haitian boa 1 

Eunede^ murinus Anaconda 1 

Python molurus Indian rock python 1 

Python regius Ball python 1 

Colubridae: 

Boiga blandingi Brown tree snake 1 

Diadophis punctatus Ring-necked snake 2 

Dinodon semicarinatum Akamatah 1 

Elaphe guttata Corn snake , 2 

Elaphe obsoleta..^ Pilot snake 5 

Elaphe quadrivittata Chicken snake 2 

Lampropeltis triangulum iriangulum Milk snake or spotted adder.. 1 

Natrix sp Water snake 12 

Natrix piscator Water snake 1 

Natrix sipcdon Banded water snake 8 

Opheodrys vernalis Green grass snake 1 



114 ANNUAL KEPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947 

Scdentifto name Common name Numher 

Colubridae — Continued 

Oxybelis acuminatus Pike-head snake 2 

Pituophis catenifer Western bull snake 1 

Pituophis melanoleucus Bull snake 2 

Ptynn mucosus Indian rat 8nake„ 1 

Storeria dekyi De Kay's snake 4 

Thamnophh macrostemma Mexican garter snake 1 

Thamnophis ordinoides Western garter snake 3 

Thamnophia sauritus Ribbon snake 1 

Thamnophis sirtalis Garter snake 7 

Elapidae: 

Dendroaspis sp Black tree snake or black 

mainba 1 

Dendroaspis viridia Green mamba 4 

Micrurus fulvius Coral snake 1 

Naja melanoleuca West African cobra 3 

Crotalidae: 

Agkisirodon bilineatus Mexican moccasin 14 

Agkisirodon mokeson Copperhead snake 3 

Agkisirodon piscivorus Cottonmouth moccasin 6 

Crotalus atrox Texas diamond-backed rattle- 
snake 1 

Crotalus horridus Eastern diamond-backed rat- 
tlesnake 1 

Trimeresurus fiavoviridis Habu viper 3 

SistruruH ratenatus catenatus Massasauga 7 

Sistrurus miliarius Pigmy rattlesnake 2 

TESTUDINATA 

Chelydidae: 

Batrachemys nasuta. South American snake-necked 

turtle 4 

Hydraspis sp Cdgado or South American 

snake-necked turtle 1 

Hydromedusa tectifera South American snake-necked 

turtle. 18 

Plaiemys platycephala Flat-headed turtle 1 

Pelomedusidae: 

Podocnemis ezpansa South American river tortoise. 1 

Kinosternidae: 

Kinosternon suhrubrum . Musk turtle 6 

Chelydridae: 

Chelydra serpentina Snapping turtle 8 

MacrocheJys temminckii Alligator snapping turtle 1 

Testudinidae: 

Chrysemys pida Painted turtle 7 

Clemmys guttata Spotted turtle 6 

Clemmys insculpta Wood turtle 3 

Cyclemys amboinensis Kura kura box turtle 1 

Oraptemys barbouri Barbour's turtle 6 

Malaclemys centraia Diamond-back turtle 8 

Pelomedusa galeata Common African water tor- 
toise 1 



REPORT OF THE 6ECRETART 115 

Bcientiflo name Cofnmon nume Number 

Testudinidae — Continued 

Pseudemys condnna Cooter 1 

Pseudemys rugosa Cuban terrapin 1 

„ , ...... fTroost's turtle 1 

Pseudemya scrtpta Iroosht JTroost's turtle (albino) 2 

Pseudemys troontii Cumberland terrapin 4 

Terrapene Carolina Box turtle 50 

TeTTopcne major Florida box turtle 4 

Testudo ephippium Duncan Island tortoise 2 

Testudo hoodensis Hood Island tortoise 2 

Testudo tab ulala South American tortoise 1 

Testudo lornieri Soft-shelled land tortoise 1 

Testudo vicina Albemarle Island tortoise 5 

Trionychidae: 

Ainyda ferox Soft-shelled turtle 6 

Arnyda triunguis West African soft-shelled tur- 
tle 1 

AMPHIBIA 
CAUDATA 

Salamandridae: 

Triturus pyrrhogaster Red Japanese salamander 77 

Triturus torosus Giant newt 2 

Triturus vulgaris Common European salaman- 
der 3 

Ambystomidae: 

Ambysioma lacustris Mexican axoloti 3 

Ambystoma opacuw, Marbled salamander 1 

Avibystoma tigrinum Axoloti 32 

Cryptobranchidae: 

Megalobatrachus japonicus Giant Japanese salamander 2 

SALIENTIA 

Dendrobatidae: 

Aielopus varius crvciger Yellow atelopus 34 

Dendrobates auratus Arrow-poison frog IGO 

Dendrobates wittei Red and black frog 1 

Bufonidae: 

Bufo amcricanus Common toad 1 

Bufo empusus Sapo de concha 4 

Bufo marinus Marine toad 4 

Bufo peltacephalus Cuban giant toad 3 

Ceratophrydae: 

Ceralophrys ornata Horned frog 3 

Ceratophrys varius Horned frog 1 

Hyla sp _ Tree frog 1 

Hyla crucifer Tree frog 2 

Pipidae: 

Pipa pipa __. Surinam toad 6 

Xenopui laevis African clawed frog 12 



116 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947 

Scientific name Common name Number 

Rauidae: 

Rana catesbeiana Bullfrog 2 

Rana clamitans Green frog 2 

Rana pipiens Leopard frog 10 

Rana sylvatica Wood frog 1 

FISHES 

Anahas testudineus Climbing perch 5 

Anoptichthys jordani Blind characin 12 

Barbus everetti Clown barb , 8 

Barbus pariipentazona Banded barb 20 

Brachydanio rerio Zebra danio 3 

Carassius aurattis Goldfish 10 

Channa asialica Snakehead fish 2 

Cichlasoma festivum Flag cichlid 1 

Corydoras aeneus Trinidad catfish 5 

Danio malaharicus Blue danio 2 

Gymnocorymbus ternetzi Black tetra 4 

Helostoma temminckii Kissing gourami or gorami 2 

Hyphessorbrycon innesi Neon tetra 3 

Kryptopierus bicirrhis Glass catfish 1 

Lebistes reticulatus Guppy, 100 

Lepidosiren paradoxa South American lungfish 2 

Limis vittata Cuban limia 10 

Mollienisia sphenops Victory moll}'' 12 

Monocirrhus polyacanthus Leaf fish 1 

Otocinclus ajjinus Sucker catfish 6 

Plaiypoecilus Red moon 3 

Pristella riddlei Tetra 10 

Protopterus annedens African lungfish 2 

Pterophyllum scalar e Angel fish 1 

ARACHNIDS 

Eurypelma sp Tarantula 1 

INSECTS 

Blabera sp Giant cockroach 100 

SUMMARY 

Animals on hand July 1, 1946 2, 553 

Accessions during the year 1, 462 



Total number of animals in collection during the year 4, 015 

Removals for various reasons such as death, exchanges, return of animals 

on deposit, etc 1, 008 



In collection on June 30, 1947 3,007 

Among the important losses of the year were three emperor pen- 
guins. Two of them had lived here for 5 j^ears and 11 months ; the last 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 



117 



one to die, for 6 years and 3 months. These, of course, are outstanding 
records for life in captivity for these interesting birds, but the loss 
was a heavy one. 



STATUS OF COLLECTION 



Class 


Species 


Indi- 
vid- 
uals 


Class 


Species 


Indi- 
vid- 
uals 


Mammals 


189 

330 

94 

24 


609 
1, 235 

380 
365 


Fish 


24 

1 
1 


316 


Birds 


Insects 


100 


Reptiles -.. 


Araciinids 


1 




Total 






669 


3,007 







Eespectfully submitted. 

Dr. A. Wetmore, 

Secretary, Smithsonian Institution. 



W. M. Mann, Director. 



APPENDIX 8 
EEPORT ON THE ASTEOPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY 

Sir : I have the honor to submit the following report on the opera- 
tions of the Astrophysical Observatory for the fiscal year ended June 
30, 1947 : 

The Observatory has two divisions: (1) The original Division of 
Astrophysical Research, engaged primarily in a study of solar radia- 
tion, and (2) the more recently established Division of Radiation and 
Organisms, engaged in a study of the effects of radiation on organisms. 

Both divisions of the Observatory helped to celebrate the one- 
hundredth anniversary of the founding of the Smithsonian Institution 
by participating in a special exhibit illustrating the activities of the 
Institution. Mechanical working models were displayed showing 
typical instruments as used by the Observatory at Camp Lee, Va., and 
also showing types of research in the Division of Radiation and Organ- 
isms, with emphasis placed on the role of light in the growth and de- 
velopment of plants. 

(1) DIVISION OF ASTROPHYSICAL RESEARCH 

IVork in Washington. — As in the past, our first concern has been to 
appraise the solar-constant values received from our field stations and 
to plan and develop improvements in instrumental equipment and 
methods. Our plans have seemed unduly slow in fulfillment, but by 
way of anticipation we may state that in the near future at one of our 
field stations we expect to try several innovations. These include an 
improved vacuum bolometer, a fused quartz prism, and aluminized 
mirrors in the optical path in place of stellite. The resulting large 
increase in ultraviolet deflections should permit a more accurate study 
of the day-to-day changes in this important region. 

Our second concern has been the work at Camp Lee, Va., under con- 
tract with the Office of the Quartermaster General, described in last 
year's report. The records of the Camp Lee measurements of sun and 
sky radiation have been compiled and prepared for publication in a 
series of 11 reports to the Quartermaster General. The maintenance 
of the equipment and observations at Camp Lee, and the preparation 
of the reports have all been under the direction of William H. Hoover. 
With the close of the fiscal year we have completed 18 months of con- 

118 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 119 

tinuous observations at Camp Lee. These records give the sun and 
sky radiation in calories per square centimeter, for each hour of each 
day divided as follows : 

(1) Total intensity on a horizontal surface. 

(2) Total intensity on a surface inclined 45° to the east. 

(3) Ultraviolet intensity on a surface 45° to the east. 

(4) Visible intensity 45° to the east. 

(5) Infrared intensity 45° to the east. 

(6) Intensity under a vycor filter which transmits all radiation, inclined 45° 

to the south. 

(7) Intensity under a black filter (Corning 2540) which cuts off the ultra- 

violet and visible, and transmits the infrared, 45° to the south. 

(8) Intensity under a yellow filter (Corning 3385) which cuts off the ultra- 

violet and transmits the visible and infrared, 45° to the south. 

(9) Ultraviolet intensity on a horizontal surface measured with a special 

photoelectric ultraviolet meter. 

The measurement and reduction of these voluminous records have 
been tedious and time-consuming. Integrating devices which will 
greatly simplify the work are being studied by Mr. Hoover and L. B. 
Clark, and several such devices are under construction in our shops. 

It is now 13 years since Dr. C. G. Abbot and the Director last deter- 
mined the standard scale of solar radiation on Mount Wilson. In 
anticipation of a new determination of this scale in the near future, 
the double-barreled water-flow pyrheliometer used successfully in 
1934 has been partially rebuilt. Rubber joints within the instrument 
have been eliminated, copper-constantan thermojunctions replace the 
former nickel-platinum junctions, and the thermoelement arrangement 
is made more simple and efficient. 

Dr. Abbot, research associate of the Observatory, has continued his 
studies of the effects of solar changes on weather. He has also experi- 
mented with a small solar engine, and has made preparations for a 
further study of the energy spectra of stars which he will undertake 
soon with the aid of the Mount Wilson 100-inch telescope. 

At the request of Dr. Henryk Arctowski, and with the cooperation 
of Dr. Abbot and the Secretary of the Institution, Dr. Alexander 
Wetmore, arrangements were made for John McLean Hildt to come 
to Washington to assist Dr. Arctowski for 1 year. Mr. Hildt, form- 
erly meteorologist for the American Overseas Airlines, began work 
with Dr. Arctowski on June 2, 1947. He will help organize and pre- 
pare for publication the large amount of material which Dr. Arctowski 
has accumulated. 

Worh in the -field. — In October 1946 Mr. Hoover and Paul Greeley 
went to New Mexico and packed for shipment the entire equipment 
of our Tyrone station, closed since February 1946. Arrangements 
were made for the sale and disposal of the buildings and for the return 

777488—48 9 



120 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947 

of the site to the custody of the Forest Service. The equipment was 
sent to Miami, Fla., and stored pending the completion of a building 
suitable for temporary solar observations at this sea -level location. 

In further development of their studies of the causes of tent dete- 
rioration, the Quartermaster Department decided to extend the Camp 
Lee work to include measurements and exposures at a wet, sea-level 
station and also at a dry, high-altitude station. Fortunately, in Miami, 
Fla., the General Motors Corp. maintains a test field for the exposure 
and testing of various materials. At the suggestion of Dr. S. J. 
Kennedy, of the Military Planning Division, Office of the Quarter- 
master General, a cooperative program was arranged between the 
General Motors Corp., the Quartermaster Department, and the Smith- 
sonian Institution. General Motors generously undertook to build a 
special observing shelter at their test field, to house our spectrobolo- 
metric equipment formerly in operation at Tyrone, N. Mex. This 
building, a most satisfactory, well-insulated structure of cement brick, 
was completed in April 1947. On May 1 F. A. Greeley, recently 
director at our Montezuma, Chile, station, took charge of the installa- 
tion of our equipment. Spectrobolometric observations are planned 
for a period of 1 year. 

During the war years our field stations were unavoidably under- 
manned. It is therefore a satisfaction to state that each of the stations 
now has two competent observers, as in prewar days. 

During the fiscal year, a generous gift to further the work of the 
Division was received from John A. Roebling. The staff of the 
Observatory is sincerely grateful to Mr. Roebling, and to Dr. Abbot 
through whose kindly interest the gift was received. 

(2) DIVISION or RADIATION AND ORGANISMS 

(Report prepared by Earl S. Johnston, Chief of the Division) 

General. — Members of the Division were consulted as usual by out- 
side individuals and organizations regarding problems arising in the 
field of radiation, its measurement and its effect on living matter. 
Individual members also participated actively in the affairs of national 
and local scientific organizations. 

Research. — During the year the research of the Division of Radiation 
and Organisms was concentrated under two projects: (1) Photosyn- 
thesis, and (2) plant growth and development as influenced by light. 

(1) Photosynthesis. — The purpose of this project is to determine 
the role of light, especially the wave-length effects, on the fixation of 
carbon by green plants. Included in this project are studies (a) to 
determine a more complete photosynthesis-action spectrum by use of 
the special spectrographic method for the determination of carbon 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 121 

dioxide as developed in this laboratory; (6) to determine chlorophyll 
formation in the different regions of the spectrum; (c) to investigate 
the wave-length balance associated with optimum plant production 

Many instrumental problems have arisen in connection with this 
COg-measuring method which have prevented the full use of the ap- 
paratus in many of the planned experiments. New heat exchangers 
have been installed for better temperature control and other improve- 
ments made. After making 67 test runs, each of which required from 
5 to 6 hours, all but two of the problems have been overcome. 

The Division has recently obtained a suitable spectrophotometer 
with which to continue its studies on chlorophyll formation. Work in 
the study of wave-length balance and optimum plant growth has been 
continued. 

(2) Plant growth and development a^ iniluen/)ed hy light. — The pur- 
poses of this project are {a) to determine the mechanism of dormancy 
in light-sensitive seeds, and (5) to study developmental physiology 
of grass seedlings. 

Role of light in seed germination. — It has long been known that 
germination of many species of seeds under certain conditions is very 
markedly stimulated by, or entirely dependent upon, irradiation. 
About 10 years ago a cooperative investigation carried out in this 
laboratory (Flint and McAlister) demonstrated that only certain por- 
tions of the spectrum are stimulatory to germination whereas other 
regions are inhibitory. The mechanism of these effects of light has 
remained completely obscure, however. 

Subsequent discoveries by other workers have suggested new ex- 
perimental approaches to this problem which has been taken up again. 
These discoveries are (1) that certain chemicals have the ability to 
evoke germination in darkness and thus appear to act as substitutes 
for light, and (2) that other chemicals act as germination inhibitors 
in darkness but that light tends to overcome the inhibitory action. 

A considerable variety of compounds has been tested for ability to 
promote germination of lettuce seeds in darkness at temperatures 
which, in the absence of specific stimulations, permit germination only 
in light. A number of active substances have been found. The tests 
are being continued in an attempt to correlate the physiological potency 
with molecular architecture. 

The light-sensitive inhibitory effect produced by coumarin does not 
appear to be specific, being exhibited also by several other compounds 
among the many which have been examined. Thus there is little 
support for the suggestion made by other workers that coumarin, or 
a chemically closely related substance, is responsible for the natural 
light-sensitivity of lettuce seed. A report of this work is now being 
prepared for publication. 



122 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947 

Evidence has been obtained, however, that dormancy and germina- 
tion in this species is regulated, or at least influenced by an endo- 
genous inhibitory substance. The nature of this inhibitor and the 
mode of its action are being studied. 

A critical review of the literature dealing with germination of 
lettuce is also in preparation. 

Effect of light on development of grass seedlings. Various phases 
of this project have been carried forward as time permitted. A com- 
parative investigation of the action spectrum for inhibition of meso- 
cotyl growth in several species has been published. Tests on the 
influence of several seed-disinfection treatments on subsequent seed- 
ling development have been completed. Additional experiments have 
been made on the effects of various salts on growth of etiolated oats. 
In order to explain the observed gross morphological effects of light 
and other environmental factors on mesocotyl elongation, a histologi- 
cal study of this organ is in progress. A large number of slides have 
been prepared and are being examined. It is planned to resume the 
experiments on the interrelation between light and temperature as 
affecting coleoptile and root growth as soon as the necessary equip- 
ment, now being constructed, is available. 

Volatile plant-growth inhibitors. It was observed that in a wooden 
growth chamber, of which the interior had been varnished, the germi- 
nation of several species of seeds was completely checked or greatly 
retarded, although all the commonly recognized environmental con- 
ditions were favorable for development. On removal from this cham- 
ber normal development was resumed promptly. As the plants were 
not in direct contact with the original box it appeared that a volatile 
substance of great physiological activity was present. A large 
number of subsequent tests showed that volatile inhibitors are indeed 
produced, presumably as the result of oxidation processes, by films of 
varnishes, drying oils, unsaturated fat acids, and by several species of 
wood. The rapid and complete reversibility of the inhibition is espe- 
cially remarkable. An agent with these properties might conceivably 
be of considerable value both in plant physiological experimentation 
and in practical plant culture. Studies on the identity of the respon- 
sible substance, or substances, are in progress. 

PUBLICATIONS 

The following publications relating to the work of the Observatory 
were issued during the year : 

Abbot, C. G., 1946-47 report on tlie 27.0074-day cycle in Washington precipitation. 

Smithsonian Misc. Coll., vol. 107, No. 3, March 1947. 
Abbot, O. G., The earth and the stars. D. Van Nostrand Co., Inc., New York. 

1946. 288 pp. 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 123 

Abbot, C. G., The sun's short regular variation and its large effect on terrestrial 

temperatures. Smithsonian Misc. Coll., vol. 107, No. 4, April 1947. 
Abboi\ C. G., Astrophysical contributions of the Smithsonian Institution. Science, 

vol. 104, No. 2693, August 1940. 
AxDuicn, L. B., and associates, Reports on Camp Lee studies, submitted to the 
Ofiice of the Quartermaster General, as follows : 

Textile Series, OfiBce of Quartermaster General, Report 17, Tent Research 

Report 3, pp. 53-99. 
Reports 2 to 11, Smithsonian Institution to Office of Quai'termaster 
General. 
Johnston, Eabl S., The Division of Radiation and Organisms : Its origin and 

scope. Scientific Monthly, vol. 63, pp. 371-380, 1946. 
Johnston, Eabl S., An establishment was established. Journ. Washington Acad. 

Sciences, vol. 37, pp. 37^0, 1947. 
Weintbaub, Robeet L., and Pkice, Leonaed, Developmental physiology of the 
grass seedling. II. Inhibition of mesocotyl elongation in various grasses by 
red and by violet light. Smitiisonian Misc. Coll., vol. 106, No. 21, May 1947. 

Respectfully submitted. 

L. B. Aldrich, Director. 
Dr. a. Wetmorb, 

Secretary^ Smithsonian Institution. 



APPENDIX 9 
REPORT ON THE NATIONAL AIR MUSEUM 

Sm: On August 12, 1946, President Truman approved an act of 
the Seventy-ninth Congress (H. R. 5144) establishing, under the 
Smithsonian Institution, a bureau to be known as a National Air Mu- 
seum. The act, now referred to as Public Law 722, stipulates that 
this bureau shall be administered by the Smithsonian Institution 
"with the advice of a board to be composed of the Commanding Gen- 
eral of the Army Air Forces or his successor, the Chief of Naval Op- 
erations or his successor, the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institu- 
tion, and two citizens of the United States appointed by the President 
from civilian life, who shall serve at the pleasure of the President." 

The purpose of the National Air Museum is to "memorialize the 
national development of aviation; collect, preserve, and display aero- 
nautical equipment of historical interest and significance; serve as 
a repository for scientific equipment and data pertaining to the de- 
velopment of aviation ; and provide educational material for the his- 
torical study of aviation." 

After the passage of the act, Dr. Wetmore discussed with Gen- 
eral Spaatz and Admiral Nimitz the designation of appropriate rep- 
resentatives of the Army Air Forces and the Navy to the Advisory 
Board. As a result, General Spaatz appointed Maj. Gen. E. M. 
Powers, and Admiral Nimitz appointed Rear Adm. H. B. Sallada. 
The latter was replaced on May 1, 1947, by Rear Adm. A. M. Pride. 
On December 3, 1946, President Truman appointed Grover Loening 
and William B. Stout to be civilian members of the Advisory Board 
as provided in the law. 

On December 16 the first and organizational meeting of the Ad- 
visory Board was held at the Smithsonian Institution in Washington. 
At this meeting Dr. Wetmore was unanimously elected chairman. A 
general discussion of the preliminary plans for an aeronautical 
museum then followed, the Board calling attention to the danger of 
losing valuable historical and technical material unless prompt action 
were taken. Toward this end, Dr. Wetmore was requested to com- 
mmiicate immediately with leaders in all branches of aeronautics 
requesting that such material be preserved for future review by the 
Board. 

The Board also discussed section 3 of the act which calls on the 
Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution with the advice of the Ad- 

124 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 125 

visory Board "to investigate and survey suitable lands and buildings 
for selection as a site for a national air museum and to make recom- 
mendations to Congress for the acquisition of suitable lands and build- 
ings for a national air museum." 

At this meeting, too, the preparation of estimates of appropriations 
to implement the $50,000 authorized by the Congress for the purposes 
of the act was discussed in detail, and Dr. Wetmore was advised by 
the Board to submit the request to the Bureau of the Budget. This 
was done, and on March 21, 1947, President Truman transmitted to 
Congress "A Supplemental Estimate of Appropriation for the Fiscal 
Year 1948 in the Amount of $50,000 for the Smithsonian Institution" 
(H. R. Doc. No. 181). On April 30, 1947, Dr. Wetmore appeared 
before the Independent Offices Subcommittee on Appropriations and 
presented a brief statement on the origin of the National Air Museum 
and on the need for the requested appropriation. 

Following this initial meeting of the Advisory Board, approxi- 
mately 200 letters were addressed to aeronautical interests through- 
out the Nation. These letters called attention to the establishment 
of the National Air Museum and urged the recipients to advise the 
Board of any aeronautical items which in their estimation should be 
considered for inclusion in the future National Air Museum. The 
letter also requested that such materials be carefully preserved until 
such time as the Board could make a study of them. The response 
to these letters has been large and indicates the existence at this writ- 
ing of much valuable museiun material in private hands scattered 
throughout the Nation. Both the Army and Navy, too, are assem- 
bling and holding large quantities of valuable aeronautical material 
of the recent war years. A portion of these collections, and several 
private collections, were inspected toward the close of the year at the 
Institution's own expense. 

The major problem involved in the advancement of the National 
Air Museum project is the acquisition of a storage depot for the tem- 
porary assembly of the museum material. This is most essential to 
prevent the permanent loss of material and to enable the Advisory 
Board to determine and recommend to Congress suitable lands and 
buildings for the new bureau. At the close of the year this vital 
problem was still unsolved, nor had the Congress appropriated the 
$50,000 authorized and requested for use in the fiscal year 1948. 

Respectfully submitted. 

C. W. MiTMAN, 

Assistant to the Secretary for the National Air Museimi. 
Dr. a. Wetmore, 

Secretary^ Smithsonian Institution. 



APPENDIX 10 

REPORT ON THE CANAL ZONE BIOLOGICAL AREA^ 

Sm : It gives me pleasure to present herewith the annual report of 
the Canal Zone Biological Area, for the fiscal year ended June 30, 
1947. As in past reports, there are included data regarding rainfall, 
temperatures, relative humidity, and other data which are invaluable 
to those coming to the island for study. 

REGARDING THE ISLAND 

As this is the first report published in several years, it is desirable to 
include here some of the data that appeared in the earlier Barro 
Colorado Island Biological Laboratory Reports — particularly so, be- 
cause so many new readers will want this information. 

The island was reserved for scientific purposes by Governor J. J. 
Morrow on April 17, 1923 ; hence in 1948 the island and its unique labo- 
ratory will celebrate its twenty-fifth amiiversary. It is located in 
Gatun Lake, about halfway between Gamboa and Gatun. Its width is 
3.1 miles, its length 3.4 miles, and its area 3,609.6 acres, or 5.64 square 
miles. Its coast line exceeds 25 miles. It is larger than the combined 
areas of the familiar islands of Taboga, Taboguilla, Urava, Otoque, 
Bona, Morro, Chame, Estiva, Melones, Venado, Mandinga, Tabor, En- 
sena, Patterson, Tortola, Naos, Culebra, Perico, and Flamenco. 

The shore line of Gatun Lake is on the average 85 feet above sea 
level, and the highest point on the island, 637 feet. There are 24 
trails, marked off into 100-meter sections, so that not only are all parts 
of the island available with ease, but the 100-meter designations give 
it a sort of cross index ; thus, for example, Wheeler-6 has a very definite 
location. And since all trails eventually lead to the main laboratory, 
no one has ever been known to be lost on the island. 

As to buildings, there is a two-story main building 32 by 55 feet, 
the lower floor including a dining room, and the upper floor lodging 
rooms. There are two buildings 12 by 24 feet with two rooms each, 
the ZMA and Barbour Houses, the latter with a large porch for labora- 



^ This is the first report to be published since the Canal Zone Biological Area was placed 
under the administration of the Smithsonian Institution. The first to the sixteenth reports, 
for the years when the organization was known as the Barro Colorado Island Biological 
Laboratory, were issued In mimeograph form, the last In 1940. During the war, owing to 
military restrictions and other considerations, no reports were issued. 

126 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 127 

tory space. Then there is the Chapman House, also 12 by 24 feet, with 
a wide porch; the lower floor is screened in and serves as a splendid 
laboratory unit. The Eastman Kodak Co. has a building for its serv- 
ice, deterioration, and corrosion tests, the lower floor serving as 
workshop. There is a three-room library, and another building used 
by the Kesident Manager. The upper part of the kitchen is used as a 
dormitory. 

There are buildings at the end of the Barbour Trail, the Drayton 
Trail, the Pearson Trail, the Zetek Trail, and at Burrunga Point, all 
available for the use of scientists. At least two can live comfortably 
in these houses. 

Inquiries should be addressed either to Dr. Alexander Wetmore, Sec- 
retary, Smithsonian Institution, Washington 25, D. C, or to James 
Zetek, Resident Manager, Drawer C, Balboa, C. Z. Accredited scien- 
tists receive an annual card pass on the railroad, and authority to pur- 
chase in the commissaries. Living conditions on the island are very 
comfortable, and working conditions good. Owing to the precautions 
taken, the malaria hazard is nil, and the water supply is safe. 

As the island force looks after the dormitories and the meals, it 
means that the scientists are relieved of all housekeeping duties. Thus 
their entire time is available for their research problems. Those who 
have worked in the Tropics where such facilities are not available, 
where drinking water must be boiled and malaria precautions taken 
daily, know what it means to be relieved of these chores. Furthermore, 
in many tropical localities good medical facilities are not within easy 
reach, whereas on Barro Colorado Island the scientist is never more 
than an hour from a Panama Canal dispensary, or an hour and a half 
from Gorgas or Colon hospitals, where one finds the very best in medi- 
cal or surgical services. 

With rapid air mail and air express service the island is in very close 
touch with the United States, and being under the United States flag, 
it is almost like being in the States. On the other hand, the isolation 
provided by an island does away with the many distractions so common 
on the mainland. 

THE ISLAND LITERATURE 

Since the laboratory was established in 1923 as the Barro Colorado 
Island Biological Laboratory, there have appeared G03 individual 
published articles and books relating to studies made on the island. 
This is an enviable record, equaled by very few institutions of this 
sort. The field covered is vast, even including papers on studies made 
here on cosmic rays. Many of the papers on physiology have paved the 
way to other studies that have solved problems relative to certain 
human diseases. A 3- by 5-inch card record is kept of these individual 



128 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 194 7 

books and papers. One index is alphabetical by authors, the other by 
subjects. 

The war halted the preparation and publication of many papers, as 
it also curtailed the number able to come to the laboratory for studies. 
During the war the laboratory was, of course, very active on problems 
relating to the war, particularly deterioration, corrosion, fungi, chemi- 
cal problems, and related matters, but very few of these findings will 
appear in print. It is also known that papers have been published of 
which we have no record. It is a difficult task to cull all the litera- 
ture, and probably the index is only 80 percent complete. Neverthe- 
less, it is an amazing record. 

SCIENTISTS AND THEIR STUDIES 

Dr. T. C. ScHNEiRLA, curator of the department of animal behav- 
ior, American Museum of Natural History, perhaps the highest au- 
thority living on the behavior pattern of army ants, spent from Feb- 
ruary 7 to June 16, 1946, on the island, continuing his studies. A 
summary of his findings follows : 

"These studies on army-ant behavior and its biological basis were 
begun on the island in 1932, and were continued in the rainy-season 
periods of 1933, 1936, and 1938. The work began as an attempt to 
analyze the complex behavior system of these ants as a case study of 
'instinct,' but as it went along inevitably led into other special prob- 
lems, such as the social organization of the army ants, and the rela- 
tionship between reproductive processes and behavior. 

"To investigate the last problem in particular a project was plamied 
for 1942 ; however, the war interfered. Since all the preceding studies 
had been made in the rainy season, it was especially desirable to ob- 
tain evidence on the activities and adaptations of the Ecitons in the 
dry months. Plans for an intensive investigation under dry-season 
conditions were resumed in 1946. 

"The basis of the study was the surveying of activities and condi- 
tions in two colonies, one of Eciton hamatum and one of E. burchelli, 
for as long a time as possible in the dry months. Other colonies of 
these two species were kept on record as far as possible for briefer 
periods, and supplementary field and laboratory tests were carried out 
on relevant problems. The object was to learn as much as possible 
about what changes may occur in the activities and in the brood pro- 
duction of these ants in the dry season. 

"If there is any other situation in the world today where such a 
project involving correlated field and laboratory studies can be carried 
out advantageously, I have yet to learn of its existence. The results 
of this project illustrate the island's advantages. On the day of my 
arrival, Februarj^ 7, I found a colony of E. hurchelli bivouacked on 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 129 

Shannon trail just beyond No. 2, and this colony was kept on record 
until just before departure on June 15 — about 125 days in all. A 
colony of E. hamatum, found a few days later, was on record for nearly 
as long. Approximately 50 other colonies of these 2 species were 
studied more or less intensively during the 4 months. 

"The findings, first of all, showed in convincing ways that the 
periodic behavior changes (regular alternation of nomadic and 
statary — i. e., sessile — colony behavior) that I have found invariable 
for these ants in the rainy season also hold through the dry season. 
Regular phases were found as follows : For E. hamat'mn^ about 17 days 
nomadic and about 20 days statary in alternation; for E. iurcheUi, 
about 12 days nomadic and 21 days statary in alternation. An inten- 
sive study of colony brood-production, paralleling the behavior studies, 
revealed that in colonies which survive the dry season with their queens, 
new broods are produced at very regular intervals as in the rainy sea- 
son. Further evidence was found that this regular brood-production, 
based of course upon a very regular delivery of successive batches of 
eggs by the queen, provides the causal basis for the described regularity 
of colony behavior. For example, the queens of E. hamatum produce 
new batches of eggs at about 36-day intervals. This island study of 
1946 shows that this remarkable performance ordinarily is continuous 
throughout the year. 

"The production of male individuals, it was found, occurs in the dry 
season, at times characteristic of the species. Evidently in colonies 
that produce males, only one brood of males per season is produced, 
otherwise the broods are immense worker broods as in the rainy season. 
The production of males was studied, from early larval stages to ma- 
turity and dissemination by flight. A brood of (about 3,000, as a rule) 
winged males requires about 3 weeks for its complete exodus through 
nightly flights, after emergence. Results indicate that most of the 
males that survive the flight reach other colonies (evidently through 
chancing upon and following raiding trails to the bivouacs). The 
flight evidently operates against adelphogamy, although .some evi- 
dence was obtained for occasional returns of males into their colonies 
of origin. From this 1946 work a considerable part of the virtually 
unknown problem of Eciton mating can be sketched in. More of it. 
and especially how the wingless queens are produced, we hope to learn 
in 1947^8, when a project is planned for studying transitional condi- 
tions in the Ecitons from rainy to dry season months." 

Dr. James B. Hamilton, professor of anatomy. Long Island College 
of Medicine, and one of the foremost authorities on hormones, initiated 
a most interesting and promising line of research dealing with the 
matter of baldness, a subject on which he has already published im- 
portant papers. His experimental approach was through the three- 



130 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947 

toed sloth, the male of which has on its back a prominent bald area or 
"tonsure." This sloth, and some of the large apes, appear to be the 
only animals that resemble man in that the adult males develop com- 
mon baldness. 

His observations thus far are in total agreement with the idea that 
a bald spot of increasing size develops upon sexual maturation of the 
male. It is still too early to report on his study of the anatomical 
material he obtained on the island. The sloths used were obtained 
through the cooperation of Mr. Shropshire and Lieutenant Keenan of 
the United States Army Sanitary Corps. If the studies corroborate 
the views outlined, then it will be important to study the pathogenesis 
of this condition. Its etiology is apparently identical with that respon- 
sible for other important pathological conditions, for example, hyper- 
trophy and cancer of the prostate. 

His present studies are only the beginnings of further ones. No 
one so far has made this approach through the sloth, and while quite 
a number of males and females received male hormone treatment, it is 
necessary to follow the experiment through on a large scale. This 
involves also a study of the sloths themselves, to learn how to keep 
them alive in captivity for at least 6 months. In captivity the sloth 
is not hardy, and no one as yet has made a serious study of the food 
habits and other characters of these animals. They are ideal for such 
studies. 

R. J. KowAL, entomologist in charge of the Gulf port, Miss., Labora- 
tory of the Bureau of Entomology and Plant Quarantine, and Ento- 
mologists Samuel Dews and Harmon Johnston, of the same regional 
laboratory, began their studies about 4 years ago, upon the initiative of 
Kowal. The object was to obtain information on effective methods of 
preserving wood against deterioration due to termites and other organ- 
isms, as well as to rot. To quote Kowal : "The severity of conditions 
conducive to deterioration, and the excellent facilities for scientific 
study, make the island an ideal location for such investigations." 

The studies began in 1943 when funds were made available through 
the United States Forest Service, and the Coordinator of Inter- Ameri- 
can Affairs. Proposals for this work came as an outgrowth of requests 
for information from the Public Roads Administration, the War and 
Navy Departments, and other agencies engaged in the war effort. 
Briefly stated, the Inter- American Road became an urgent need, steel 
for bridges was hard to get and its transportation a problem, and to 
erect wood-preservation plants with creosote on the list of critical 
materials was out of the question. Could we not poison soils at the 
bridge abutments so as to eliminate the termite and rot hazard, and 
could we utilize native resistant trees by the additional process of 
sap-stream impregnation ? 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 131 

In the spring of 1943 two types of experiments were established, one 
to test the value of soil poisons in preventing damage by termites; 
the other to determine whether tropical tree species could be impreg- 
nated with water-soluble wood preservatives by the sap-stream method 
of impregnation. Soil poisoning had been previously tested on a 
small scale particularly in the treatment of soil along building founda- 
tions to prevent the entrance of termites into wood structure. The 
relative value of different soil poisons was not known, however, nor 
was information available on their effectiveness under tropical condi- 
tions. Thirty-nine different treatments were applied on Barro Colo- 
rado Island, each treatment being replicated 10 times. The procedure 
consisted of removing and treating 2 cubic feet of soil, replacing it, 
and driving a stake into the center of the treated area. After 3 years' 
exposure it was apparent that treatments by means of the so-called 
"saw-kerf banding" and bore-hole techniques were the most effective. 
In the case of several of the tree species, intake of the chemical was 
not satisfactory and preservation consequently was poor. 

In 1946 the Division, in cooperation with the Corps of Engineers 
of the War Department, began investigations on problems of de- 
terioration of wood and wood products confronting the Army. The 
studies deal mainly with problems under military conditions, and 
research is pointed towai'd development of practical methods of pre- 
vention and control which can be readily applied by the Army using 
materials immediately available on location. Several types of soil- 
poisoning tests were established on Barro Colorado Island in Novem- 
ber 1946. An experiment similar to that described above was installed 
using numerous soil poisons and different dosages. Variations of the 
method were also tested, one being the surface application of chemi- 
cals and another the bore-hole method. A soil-poisoning experiment 
known as the "platform test" was also established. In this test poisons 
are applied to the soil surface by spraying or sprinkling, and the board 
or "platform" to be protected is laid on the treated area. Dosages in 
this test are considerably lighter than in tests described above. The 
experiment is designed with the object of developing a method of 
preventing damage to materials in storage dmnps and similar 
installations. 

The above experiments conducted in cooperation with the War 
Department comprise a total of approximately 100 treatments; all 
have been replicated 10 times. 

Experiments on impregnation of seasoned wood with preservatives 
have been established in order to determine the methods and chemicals 
most satisfactory for the protection of wood from insect attack. The 
experiment, like those above, is designed to provide a reasonable 
degree of preservation by practical methods using chemicals readily 



132 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947 

available to the Army on location. Ten different chemicals and chemi- 
cal mixtures were used in the experiment. Stakes 12 inches long were 
treated by instant dip and by dips of 3 minutes, 1 hour and 12 hours. 
Ten replications were made of all treatments. All stakes were driven 
into the soil to a depth of 6 inches. 

A small amount of treated fabrics, conduit, and insulation is now 
under test, and it is planned that more such material will be tested 
in the future. In addition, experiments will be conducted to develop 
methods and materials that might be of value in preventing attack 
of wood by marine organisms. 

Theodore J. Mabtin, technologist of the Forest Products Labora- 
tory at Madison, Wis., made several trips to the island in connection 
with the installation and inspection of the various tests of plywoods, 
glues, paints, resins, and other materials. Since most of this is covered 
in the report of Mr. Middleswart, little need be added here. 

It is always a great satisfaction to be able to give tribute where it 
is due. The thoroughness of Mr. Martin's work, his attention to 
details, his ability to see and appreciate what too many would not note, 
all were apparent during his work on the island. 

Mrs. Elizabeth G. Hartmann, of New York City, spent a short 
time on the island studying the bird life, preparatory to a more ex- 
tended trip into Costa Rica. The abmidance of life on the island, in 
addition to the birds, crowded each day with no end of new experiences 
and information and made her stay all too brief. 

Dr. Alexander Wetmore, Secretary, Smithsonian Institution, 
spent 2 days and 1 night, all he could spare on his return from Jacque, 
and his urgent need to be back again in Washington. While all too 
brief, the period was spent in discussions with the Resident Manager 
of the island's more urgent needs. 

G. E. Erikson, of the graduate school of Harvard University, spent 
some time on the island in connection with his research problems on 
the higher mammals. 

C. C. SoPER, chemist for Eastman Kodak Co., and in charge of their 
research laboratory in Panama City, initiated and conducted on the 
island the most varied studies in connection with deterioration and 
corrosion of practically all the materials that enter into photography. 
The outcome of these studies means, of course, better results for those 
who do photographic work. Mr. Soper's investigations dealt not only 
with corrosion of lenses and its elimination, but also with the proper- 
ties and keeping qualities of film, particularly color, papers, and other 
photographic supplies, and also with the matter of packing and pack- 
aging. It is the first really serious study of these multiple problems. 
The upper floor of the building built this year is used for these tests 
and studies. 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 133 

Mr. Soper, through his knowledge of photography and photographic 
processes, has been extremely helpful to scientists on the island. It 
is hardly necessary to point out here the difficulties, as well as losses, 
incurred during the past war, because of the lack of previous studies 
of this nature. It is to the point to emphasize the soundness of the 
decision made to go to the humid Tropics to make these studies, rather 
than to depend on tests made in the continental United States by 
simulating conditions in the Tropics. It is possible to duplicate tem- 
peratures and humidities, but it is not possible to duplicate the often 
rapid changes, and certainly not the action of micro-organisms. 

The past war has shown the wisdom as well as the urgency for 
conducting in the Tropics studies on corrosion, deterioration, packing 
and packaging, and similar problems, and particularly the need to 
study and test the great number of new materials which still lack suffi- 
cient service tests to show the true limits of their best usage. 

Dr. Graham Beli^ Fairciiild, medical entomologist to the Gorgas 
Memorial Laboratory, whose splendid work during the past war is 
so well known, made several brief visits to the island in connection 
with his entomological studies. 

Dr. Chas. F. Quaintance, spent a little over 8 months of his sab- 
batical leave on the Isthmus, a few months thereof on the island. As 
head of the biology department of Eastern Oregon College, his main 
objective was to learn as much as possible about the plants and animals 
of the Tropics, and particularly the environmental conditions. To 
supplement his notes and collections, he also took a great number of 
kodachrome photographs for use in his teaching. 

It is one thing to read about the Tropics and then pass on this 
second-hand knowledge to students. But it is only when one sees, 
feels, hears, tastes, and smells that which is the humid Tropics that 
one is able to really teach about them. The past war emphasized the 
paucity of men who have had actual experience in the Tropics. 

Dr. Thos. E. Snyder, senior entomologist of the Division of Forest 
Insect Investigations, Bureau of Entomology and Plant Quarantine, 
United States Department of Agriculture, and one of our greatest 
authorities on termites, came for a few weeks to discuss with the Resi- 
dent Manager the extensive termite studies conducted on the island 
since 1923. The clearing of a piece of the immediate forest just behind 
the present laboratory buildings, to provide needed space for buildings 
and for water storage, necessitates the removal of several thousand of 
the termite exposure tests to a new area. 

During his stay he examined all the trail-end buildings, which are 
also termite tests. A report on this is given elsewhere. The great 
value of the island for such tests and studies has been attested and 
emphasized so often that any repetition here becomes redundant. 



134 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947 

Dr. Gkover C. Pitts, Naval Medical Eesearcli Institute at Bethesda, 
spent a very short period on the island because of difficulty in getting 
off in the midst of important research at that great Medical Center of 
the Navy. Hastily, he writes as follows : 

"Let me review my objectives and results in visiting the island. By 
profession I am a physiologist with strong leanings toward natural 
history. Consequently, the purpose of my short visit was to gain 
some familiarity with a tropical fauna and flora and to explore the 
possibilities of making studies in comparative physiology there. A 
secondary object was to determine what the island might have to offer 
the Naval Medical Research Institute for purposes of field research. 
Though I am now out of the Navy, I continue my affiliation with 
NMRI as a civilian. 

"Some results were obtained with regard to each objective. I iden- 
tified and gained some familiarity with the following organisms, all 
new to me : 52 species of birds, 14 species of mammals, 5 species of 
reptiles, and an undetermined number of species of plants and inver- 
tebrates. 

"This is at least some indication of what a worker can accomplish 
who desires to gain familiarity with the tropical biota and has only 
1 week at his disposal. 

"With regard to the opportunities for studies in comparative physi- 
ology, they are legion. More studies in temperature control of the 
type that Peter Morrison did are indicated. In the past I have done 
some work on diurnal rhythms in various physiological functions. 
The island with its many dirunal, nocturnal, and crepuscular crea- 
tures offers boundless material for this type of study. One would 
have to bring most of the specialized equipment needed, but the 
usual laboratory facilities are available. I hope to pursue one of 
these problems when time and finances provide the opportunity." 

A, V. Regnier, Jr., of Little Rock, Ark., visited the island for the 
purpose of preparing a motion picture of the wildlife, preparatory 
to a much longer stay later on. He exposed some 1,200 feet in color 
during the 3 weeks. He also included 2 weeks in Chiriqui, where 
he went in quest of the beautiful quetzal. Mr. Regnier reports : 

"The finished film with titles and animated maps is about 900 feet 
in length. The sequence on the island opens with the launch coming 
in to the landing followed by a view of those arduous steps. Then 
in quick flashes, the mango, banana, coconut, lime, lemon, and 
orange trees. Following are scenes of Erikson and myself walking 
along one of the trails looking up at the air plants on one of the 
giant Bombacopsis trees. Other subjects are the tamandua, tree for- 
micaria, three-toed sloth, marmosets, howlers, toucans and other birds, 
the sensitive mimosa, the zebra swallowtail, the Heliconia, the beau- 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 135 

tiful blue princess Morpho, and of course, the coatis. My still photo- 
graphs include many of the above subjects. 

"As I mentioned on my arrival in the Zone, my trip was one of 
examination to discover material for a full-length educational film. 
In Chiriqui Province at the foot of El Volcan de Chiriqui, I found 
what I was looking for in the quetzal bird — they breed in March in 
that region and are said to be easily accessible at that time. So far, 1 
believe only two persons have photographed them in color — Wolfgang 
von Hagen and Luis Marden of the National Geographic. I hope to 
make a complete film in color on the nesting habits of this beautiful 
bird. 

"Returning to the film which I made last summer, I have presented 
it to several clubs and groups along with my own narration, and it 
has been very well received. It has aroused a great deal of interest 
in Panama in general and in Barro Colorado in particular." 

E. L. MiDDLESWAKT, technologist of the Forest Products Laboratory 
at Madison, Wis., and at present with the State Commission of 
Forestry of South Carolina, showed an intense interest in the life 
of the island. His report follows, and it must be understood that it is 
still too early for final conclusions. The fact remains that the island 
certainly has all that is needed for tests of this sort. 

"We were endeavoring to find a plywood which would withstand 
tropical jungle conditions. We had some 1,500 samples of plywood 
14 inches square made of 4 different species of wood (red gum, douglas 
fir, Cottonwood, and birch) glued with 12 different glues and glue 
mixtures, and given 5 different surface treatments on exposure on the 
island. One-half of the samples were placed on racks in the sunlight 
and the other half were placed on racks in the deep jungle to give a 
comparison between the two conditions. The samples were made at 
the laboratory in Madison, Wis., and flown to the Zone by the Army 
Air Forces. They were placed on exposure in January 1946. 

"The laboratory also sent the plywood wing-section panels for 
exposure on B. C. L, which came shortly after I left the Canal Zone. 
These wing sections were also sample sections of plywood used in 
studying the effects of tropical weather conditions upon various glues 
and woods used in making the plywoods and to find which glues and 
woods are the most satisfactory for use in the Tropics. 

"This covers the high points of our work there. I might add that 
the conditions were most nearly ideal on B. C. I. for this study. It will 
be some time before the results are compiled." 

William E. Lundy, of the paymaster's office of the Panama Canal, 
and also secretary-treasurer of the Panama Canal Natural History 
Society, spent 3 days during the rainy season on the island, and being 
deeply interested in natural history, and a keen observer, his brief 

77748S — 48 10 



136 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947 

report is of much interest. It shows what others, who are much more 
versed in zoology, can expect to find. And since these animals on the 
island are as nature has them, not in cages, but in the open, to see and 
observe them is to know them as they really are. To the ecologist, to 
the student of animal behavior, to the general naturalist, it is to see, 
smell, hear, feel, and touch that which is life. It is something that 
books can only feebly portray. We have the orderly sequence of ex- 
ternal nature, we have the living organism moving about in this 
environment inhabited by other species, and we have that continuous 
adjustment which constitutes life. 

This is what Lundy saw in but 3 days : 10 bands of howler monkeys, 
3 of the white capuchins, 2 of marmosets. He saw any number of the 
coatimundi, peccary, squirrels, 2 deer, many nequi, 1 tayra, and best of 
all, 1 night monkey (Goldman's Aotus zo7ialis). He came across 10 
"armies" of army ants, and one huge bivouac of these most interesting 
ants. Among the birds he saw large numbers of toucans, parrots, and 
guans, also the tinamou, pileated woodpeckers, ant-shrikes, motmots, 
two king vultures, many of the other vultures, the scarlet-capped mani- 
kin, Ghiesbrecht's hawk, and others. Among the insects, perhaps the 
most spectacular were the large metallic blue Morpho butterflies, 
another butterfly with transparent front wings and pink hind wings, 
and the graceful large "helicopter" dragonfly. 

COMMENTS or SCIENTISTS 

"Life at the Island was a pleasant experience and I am telling my 
associates about conditions there. It seems to me to be an ideal place 
for the conduct of experimental studies of many types, and I would 
like to thank you for the opportunity to work there. The research 
station is certainly a well-run place." — Dr. James B. Hamilton. 

"My report is incomplete, of course, since it includes no statement 
of how thrilling and how great a privilege it was to return to the island 
to continue my work where I left it off, to meet and talk with you 
again, and to enjoy once more directly the countless emotional and 
perceptual satisfactions that come from hiking and strolling around, 
and from just standing in the many well-remembered landmarks, 
probably I had best leave the sentimental part of the return unsaid ; at 
least the above sentence is sufficiently full of rushing verbal chaos to 
represent how I felt on February 7, 1946, and all of the days I was 
there."— Dr. T. C. Schneirla. 

"The severity of conditions conductive to deterioration and the ex- 
cellent facilities for scientific study, make the island an ideal location 
for such investigations." — Joseph Kowal. 

"As for the Naval Medical Kesearch Institute, the island would be a 
most useful proving ground for many of the things developed here. 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 137 

These include insecticides and repellents, warm-weather clothing and 
footgear, a new type of salt tablet for men perspiring profusely, etc. 
In addition to all of the above, the island is a wonderful place for a 
boreal biologist to broaden his outlook." — Grover C. Pitts. 

"With reference to my visit to B. C. I., I certainly want to put in my 
plug. I surely enjoyed my visit there, not only with reference to my 
work, but with reference to the many, many other phases of study 
adapted to the area. I certainly had my eyes opened as to jimgle con- 
ditions and the flora and fauna therein. I have never been in a place 
where so many phases of biology in general could be so interestingly 
studied and all from the same roof. The beauty of the flowers and 
colorful birds still stands out in my memories of B. C. I., not to forget 
tlie hours I sat and watched the busy little monkeys playing in the 
trees. 

"The fellowship which I experienced with the fellow scientists work- 
ing and visiting the island, as well as the friendly reception of the 
native people welcoming me to B. C. I., is an experience never to be 
forgotten." — Eugene L. Middleswart. 

"To the visitors of the Barro Colorado Laboratory ! May they get 
from the trails in the rain forest such an inspiration as will last them 
through life and make them ardent protectors of the tropical forests 
of the world, for without their aid these marvels of beauty will surely 
disappear forever." — David Faiechild. 

"I take up my pen with the greatest of pleasure to record the out- 
standing impressions left by my recent visit to Barro Colorado Island. 
When I recall the expeditions I have made into Central American 
jungles, the great expense involved, and the meager equipment per- 
mitted by pack-mule transportation, the difficulties encountered and 
the usual sequellae of tropical malaria and dysentery, it is only natural 
that I should be struck first of all by the propinquity and safety of 
Barro Colorado Island. 

"Just to think that one can drop off a chair car at a railway station 
in a civilized community, and after half an hour's launch ride find 
one's self in the heart of virgin tropical forest, is to feel a wave of 
admiration for the foresight of those who secured the reservation of 
this great tract to scientific purposes. It is a biologist's fantasy come 
true, and I hope as time goes on that more and more of our scientific 
institutions will come to its support, so that the potentialities of the 
laboratoi-y can be developed in all directions, and utilized to the full at 
all times of the year. 

"I believe there is nothing like it in the world. There are great 
botanical and zoological gardens in the Tropics which represent an 
attempt to facilitate man's acquaintance with tropical nature by trans- 
porting the flora and fauna to some easily accessible place. Barro 



138 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 194 7 

Colorado Island has the opposite aim, of enabling man to transport 
himself into the midst of tropical nature and to live there for any 
period of time in comfort and safety. 

"Nature lovers as well as scientists can enjoy this unusual experience. 
My wife was as excited as I was on our morning walks, at the hundred 
and one novel things she had read about but never seen. We were 
equally lucky in sighting manmials and birds before they took alarm, 
while the trees and plants always stood still to be admired. I was 
struck by the intelligence and alertness of our Panamanian guide 
Silvestre, and his knowledge of jungle life. 

"In short, I am enthusiastic about Barro Colorado and I will not 
fail to endeavor to communicate this feeling to my friends." — Dr. L. W. 
Hackeit, Rockefeller Foimdation. 

"As the result of my recent visit to Barro Colorado Island I feel 
impelled to write you to express my gratification with what is being 
accomplished. I remember my pleasure when the isolation of this area 
by the waters of Gatun Lake was first foreseen, and the decision was 
made to make it a permanent preserve for native life. Yet I can see 
now that I had a very inadequate idea of the realities of nature in 
that area ; and an equally inadequate idea of what might be attempted 
in the way of scientific observation, experiment, and systematic record. 
I had, indeed, a general idea of the abundance of life in the jungle, 
but the scope of your records was a revelation. This means, partly, 
that the number of species is vastly greater than would be guessed, 
even by most scientific men. It also means (you must allow me to 
say this) that the work is being directed with wisdom and pushed with 
energy. That such records as I saw should be even attempted would 
seem to indicate the presence of a considerable staff, yet I could not 
help seeing that it is largely your own work. It is greatly to be 
hoped that your work will not only be continued, but augmented by 
further cooperation." — Nevin M. Fenneman. 

"I find it difficult to say anything about my general impi-ession of 
Barro Colorado that does not sound exaggerated, trite, or exactly like 
something I have read somewhere else. Perhaps you will know how 
I feel when I say that I wish (financial considerations aside) that a 
stay on Barro Colorado could be required of every candidate for the 
doctor's degree in either botany or zoology. You may be amused to 
know that about a week after we returned to Cliicago we went to 
Warren Woods, a beach-maple forest about 70 miles east of Chicago. 
It was very hot, 96° F., and the mosquitoes were indescribably thick. 
It was impossible to accomplish much, and we left after about 20 
minutes. We both agreed then that we would a thousand times rather 
have the ticks and red bugs of B. C. I. than the mosquitoes of our 
temperate forests. In fact, when I begin to recount the virtues of that 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 139 

little island it seems almost too good to be true. Of course we realize 
that the virtues of Barro Colorado Island are not entirely the result of 
its natural equipment. The well-marked trails, the laboratory, the 
library, the excellent livinj? accommodations, the trail-end houses, and 
all the rest are the end results of a lot of patient planning and miending 
attention to detail. The summer of 1939 was the most stimulating and 
happiest one of our lives." — Ralph and Mildred Buchsbaum. 

"The island is better than ever; and after knocking about in parts 
of the world where it is very difficult to organize one's work, I appreci- 
ate more keenly than ever the possibilities Barro Colorado offers for 
profitable natural history studies which can be begun immediately 
upon arrival." — Alexander F. Skutch. 

"All light talk aside, I have not seen any place in my travels which 
compares with Barro Colorado Island in point of excitement of the 
field-naturalist kind. In Java and Sumatra the Dutch have built 
palatial laboratories, but these are far removed from the new, fresh, 
wild jungle. In Ceylon the British have an agglomeration of build- 
ings like the United States Department of Agi'iculture, but it is 
surrounded on all sides by tea plantations. Everywhere it is the 
destructive activity of man that is clearing off the jungle and replacing 
the gorgeous forest with weedy growth or plantations of rubber trees 
in rows. Hold the virgin character of Barro Colorado at all costs. 

"Tell the visitors to take it from one who has just been there that 
the conditions for studying tropical plants and animals are better at 
Barro Colorado Island than anywhere I went in Sumatra or Java." — 
David Faikchild. 

"Barro Colorado Island is one of the most astounding places I have 
visited in any part of the world. Its value is tremendous for scientific 
research, even for research that has economic importance. I sincerely 
hope the day never comes when any of the land is devoted to investiga- 
tions such as are now being carried on in many agricultural forest and 
range experiment stations. The virgin character of Barro Colorado is 
sufficient asset and I hope you will fight every move that may be made 
to change this condition." — Frank E. Egler. 

"I must confess I was amazed at the systematic way in which the 
trails are laid out and posted, the filing system in the library and the 
many other modes and ways of doing things. I doubly appreciate 
this because I have been places where such systems were not followed, 
much to everyone's disadvantage." — George W. Prescott. 

"Never again shall I make a trip like this one for merely 5 weeks. 
If I cannot make a trip next summer I am certainly going to make 
every effort to get down the following one. Cay lor too, wants to get 
back to Barro Colorado Island and go through with our contemplated 
project of preparing a flora of the ferns of the region. We have a siz- 



140 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947 

able collection of ferns now on hand. In my algae collection I find 250 
samples, many of which are simply loaded with species and I have no 
idea how many will appear in the final list. I think 500 would be a 
very modest estimate and very likely there will be many more than 
that when the diatoms are included." — George W. Prescott. 

"Even without special precautions, the island would seem to be safer, 
hygienically speaking, than most areas of like size in the United 
States. 

"Certainly all of the minimum requirements for successful labora- 
tory work are fulfilled on the island. In addition to these minimum 
facilities the laboratory possesses a remarkable versatility of equipment 
as well as adequate laboratory space. And while it is obvious that 
special equipment to suit the needs of the individual scientist must be 
supplied by him, it is comforting to know that many laboratory necessi- 
ties are accessible in a small clearing in a tropical rain forest." — Paul 

D. VOTH. 

"The island is more than ever a paradise for the biologist. Living 
conditions are excellent, the food is fine, the resident staff efficient and 
courteous. The forest offers a pageant of life which is the ideal labora- 
tory for the study of the principles of biology. Not only has it proved 
to be of great value for the undergraduates, but its worth for the 
teacher has hardly been realized by more than a few. Every university 
and college ought to send the members of its staff in the biological 
sciences for a sojourn on the island, not once hut periodically. It 
would he an economical investment in the improvement of teaching. 
Tliis is especially true now when all emphasis is on the experimental 
side with the result that so many workers know very little about the 
organisms with which they work. The island will be an excellent place 
for studies in plant and animal physiology. The rapid growth rate of 
plants would aid such work tremendously." — Robert N. Woodworth. 

"In addition to the value of publications based on work on Barro 
Colorado, who can estimate the influence of observations, studies, and 
photographs which have formed the basis of unnumbered addresses 
in lecture hall and classroom, or the educational value of museum 
exhibits depicting island life? In brief, during their 15 years as a 
laboratory, the 4,000 acres we know as Barro Colorado have contrib- 
uted more to our knowledge of tropical wildlife than any other area 
of similar extent in America — perhaps in the world." — Frank M. 
Chapman. 

the species index 

A 5- by 8-inch card index is kept for each species of plant and animal 
definitely known from the island. Each card lists the scientific name, 
the major division to which it belongs, and the family name ; also the 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 141 

name of the collector, the name of the person who made the determina- 
tion, when and where collected, and other pertinent details. 

These cards are indexed first according to the major phyla — mam- 
mals, birds, reptiles, amphibians, fish, arthropods, etc. — which are 
further subdivided into superorders, orders, etc., and finally by fam- 
ilies. Under each family the genera are in alphabetical order, and 
the species for each genus are also in alphabetical order. 

This index is invaluable to the student. It is a unique record of the 
life of the island. In 1940 the index covered a total of 4,924 species 
of plants and animals, representing 2,805 genera. In plants alone 
there were 747 genera and 1,437 species. Since 1940 new entries have 
been made, but no count has been made of the present number, owing 
to pressure of other duties, especially those concerned with the war 
effort. A conservative estimate is about 7,000 species. 

Extensive collections have been made of algae, fungi, and lichens, but 
because of the war, reports on these have not yet been published. 
Lesser collections were made in other groups. A conservative estimate 
would be fully 700 species. 

THE ISLAND HERBARIUM 

The herbarium consists of 1,533 mounted specimens, representing 
806 species, not including the mosses. These sheets are in genus 
covers, and the collection is arranged in four major groups, the crypto- 
gams, ferns, monocotyledons, and dicotyledons. In each of these 
groups the genus covers are grouped according to the families, and 
these, for convenience in handling, are alphabetically arranged. There 
are on hand more than 2,500 additional named specimens as yet un- 
mounted and these will probably swell the number of species to close 
to 1,200. 

The herbarium is a most valuable adjunct to a laboratory such as 
ours. It does more than supplement the botanical library. Too often 
botanical literature is of little help to one not a trained botanist, and 
for this majority of students, the herbarium is what is needed. 

NEEDS 

The most urgent needs are for a concrete water tank to replace 
wooden tanks now in bad condition; new septic tanks; painting of all 
buildings, inside and out; herbarium and other storage cases; replace- 
ment of bedding and purchase of additional furniture; and miscel- 
laneous repairs to buildings: It is estimated that these present most 
urgent needs could be met at a cost of $10,000. 

Other needs that should be met promptly are for a more adequate 
supply of electricity; a new fireproof building to house the libraiy, 
photographic equipment, herbarium, and records; and adequate 



142 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 47 

animal cages to keep various creatures in captivity during scientific 
investigations. 

TERMITE-FREE BUILDINGS IN THE TROPICS 

Is is possible to build comfortable, well-ventilated houses of lum- 
ber and not have a termite hazard ? The answer is "Yes." However, 
few architects go to the trouble of getting the necessary information. 

We have 57 known species of termites in Panama and the Canal 
Zone. Of these, 45 species occur on Barro Colorado Island. Two of 
the most destructive in the world occur here, one of which is known 
to eat through the lead sheathing of electrical cables. The rapidity 
of destruction by some of the species is incredible. Some even work 
in living trees, and we have records of fruit orchards destroyed by 
them. 

And yet on Barro Colorado Island we have buildings where Ave let 
the termites do whatever they wanted to do — eat up the building 
overnight if they could — and yet these buildings are in excellent 
shape. 

In 1926 we built a test house at the end of Drayton Trail, 16 feet 
square and 10 feet high, set on wooden posts extending 3 feet into 
the ground. The timber used was pressure treated with coal-tar 
creosote and with zinc chloride. The wallboard is treated with chro- 
mated zinc chloride. In the May 1947 number of Wood Preserving 
News Dr. Thomas E. Snyder, senior entomologist of the Bureau of 
Entomology and Plant Quarantine, published all details and results 
of his inspection in February of this year, showing no damage any- 
where due to termites, and yet termites tried to get a hold. The build- 
ing is in excellent condition after 21 years. It is true that pressure 
treatment increases the original cost of the timbers, but it is cheap in- 
surance. A building of untreated timbers would have been destroyed 
in less than a year. 

At the end of the Pearson Trail we have the Fuertes House, built 
in February 1931, 16 years ago. It is set on nine posts; hence there 
is good ventilation under the house. With the exception of the shin- 
gles, which are of red cedar (and need replacement), all the wood and 
timbers, including posts, were treated with zinc-meta-arsenite. The 
tables and chairs are also so treated. There is no damage anywhere to 
the treated wood. The wallboard also was zinc-meta-arsenite treated. 
It likewise is free of any termite damage. Test stakes of untreated 
wood half-buried in the ground near the building were destroyed 
within 8 months. 

Furthermore, this zinc-meta-arsenite treated building is free of 
cockroaches. No steps are taken to keep termites out of the building, 
and no termite shields are used — ^hence, termites have absolute free- 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 143 

dom to work if they can. Yet the building is in as excellent shape 
as when we first put it up. Here again, treated lumber costs perhaps 
50 percent more, but as it gives freedom from termites, in a few years 
it pays for itself. 

The above two cases show that with treated timbers you can build a 
termite-free house even where termites are extremely abundant and 
active. 

Tests on the island also show that one can build of untreated timbers 
and have no termite hazard, provided a few simple precautions are 
taken. The main requirement is to build a good thick concrete floor 
which will extend out at least to the line of the eaves. The floor must 
be well made, with no cracks. The secret is to make an inspection at 
least once a week around this concrete floor, and if termites have 
built any covered runways, introduce into these runways either pow- 
dered calomel or finely powdered paris green. In this way the colony 
is poisoned, and by watching a treated runway, it can easily be deter- 
miried whether or not the job was well done. It takes so little time 
and does not need superior knowledge. Of course there must be no 
leaks, either in the roof or in the plumbing. 

Of course, by the use of properly made termite shields, properly 
installed, it is possible to keep termites out of buildings. Wliere it is 
possible to install them, termite shields are cheap protection, but not 
all buildings lend themselves to the use of shields. Soil poisons also 
are the answer for some type of buildings, but vigilance is always 
necessary, and inspection cannot be perfmictory. 

Circular 683, United States Department of Agriculture, "Effective- 
ness of Wood Preservatives in Preventing Attack by Termites," by 
Snyder and Zetek, gives a good picture of the extensive termite tests 
on Barro Colorado Island since 1923. The annual progress reports by 
Hunt and Snyder in the Annual Keports of the American Wood Pre- 
servers' Association give details of the more important of these tests. 
Nearly 4,000 tests are involved, in addition to the Kowal-Dews-John- 
ston series noted elsewhere in this report. 

LIST OF THE TERMITES OF PANAMA AND THE CANAL ZONE 

In this, the latest list, 57 species are represented, and of these, 45 
are known from Barro Colorado Island (indicated by the initials 
BCI). There are 13 new species which will be described in the near 
future by Dr. Emerson. The Kalotermitidae are those commonly 
known as the "dry- wood termites." The Rhinotermitidae are the bad 
actors, Coptotermes niger and Eeterotermes tenuis being especially 
noted for their destructiveness. Some of the Termitidae are also very 
destructive. This list is by no means final. We feel that at least 15 
more species will be discovered. 



144 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947 

KALOTERMITIDAE (15) 

1. Kalotermes (K.) clevelandi Snyder. 

2. Kalotermes (K.) marginipennis (Latreille). 

3. Kalotermes (K.) tabogae Snyder. 

4. Kalotermes (Neotermes) holmgreni Banks (BCI). 

5. Kalotermes (Neotermes), n. sp. 

6. Kalotermes (Neotermes) , n. sp. 

7. Kalotermes (Rugitermea) isthmi Snyder (BCI). 

S. Kalotermes (Rugitermes) panamae (Snyder) (BCI). 
9. Kalotermes (Cryptotermes) hreviarticulatus Snyder. 

10. Kalotermes (Cryptotermes) dudleyi Banks. 

11. Kalotermes (Lohitermes) lo^igicoUu (Banks). 

12. Kalotermes (Calcaritermes) hrevicollis (Banks) (BCI). 

13. Kalotermes (Calcaritermes) emarginicollis (Snyder) (BCI). 

14. Kalotermes (Olyptotermes) augustus Snyder. 

15. Kalotermes (Olyptotermes), n. sp. (BCI). 

REONOTERMITIDAE (5) 

16. Coptotermes niger Snyder (BCI). 

17. Heterotermes tenuis (Hagen) (BCI). 

18. Heterotermes convexinotatus (Snyder) (BCI). 

19. Prorhinotermes molinoi Snyder (BCI). 

20. Rhinotermea (R.) longidens Snyder (BCI). 

TERMITIDAB (37) 

21. Cornitermes (C.) agignathus silvestri, Yar. Walkeri Snydev (BCI). 

22. Armitermes (A.) armigera (Motsch.) (BCI). 

23. Armitermes (A-) chagresi Snyder (BCI). 

24. Armitermes (Rhynchotermes) peramatus Snyder (BCI). 

25. Nasutitermes (N.) columhieus (Holmgren) (BCI). 

26. Nasutitermes (N.) cornigera (Motsch.) (BCI). 

27. Nasutitermes (N.) ephratae (Holmgren) (BCI). 

28. Nasutitermes (N.) pilifrons (Holmgren) (BCI). 

29. Nasutitermes (Suhulitermes) kirbyi Snyder (BCI). 

30. Nasutitermes (Suhulitermes) zeteki Synder (BCI). 

31. Nasutitermes (Suhulitermes), n. sp. (BCI). 

82. Nasutitermes (Obtusitermes) panamae Snyder (BCI). 

33. Nasutitermes (Convexitermes) clevelandi Snyder (BCI). 

34. Nasutitermes (Unif armitermes) harrocoloradoensis Snyder (BCI). 

35. Oylindrotermes macrognathua Snyder (BCI). 

36. Amitermes (A.) beaumonti Banks (BCI). 

37. Amitermes (A.) medius Banks foreli Wasmann (BCI). 

38. Anoplotermes (A.) gracilis Snyder (BCI). 

39. Anoplotermes (A.) parvus Snyder (BCI). 

40. Anoplotermes (A.), n. sp. (BCI). 

41. Anoplotermes (A.), n. sp. (BCI). 

42. Anoplotermes (A.), n. sp, (BCI). 

43. Anoplotermes (A.), n. sp. (BCI). 

44. Anoplotertnes (A.), n. sp. (BCI). 

45. Anoplotermes (A.), n. sp. (BCI). 

46. Anoplotermes (A.), n. sp. (BCI). 

47. Anoplotermes (A.), n. sp. (BCI). 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 145 

48. Anoplotermes (A.), n. sp. 

49. Anoplotermes (A.), n. sp. 

50. Anoplotermes (speculitermes), n. sp. 

51. Microcerotermes arboreus Emerson (BCI). 

52. Microcerotermes exiguus (Hageu) (BCI). 

53. Termes (T.) hispaniolae (Banks) (BCI). 

54. Termes (T.) panamensis (Snyder) (BCI). 

55. Termes (T.), n. sp. (BCI). 

56. Ortliognathotermes wheelcri Snyder (BCI). 

57. Capritermes {Neocapritermes) centralis Snyder (BCI). 

RAINTALL, TEMrERATURES, AND RELATIVES HUMIDITY, 1946 

In the 22 years of record, 1946 was the third driest year. The rain- 
fall amounted to only 87.38 inches, showing a deficiency of 21.43 inches. 
This deficiency was most pronounced in the wet season, amounting to 
17.93 inches. Only 2 months, July and September, had an excess, 
which, however, was very slight — 0.77 and 0.20, respectively. There 
was a total deficiency of 3.50 inches in the dry season, January to April, 
inclusive; only March showed a small excess — 0.25 inch. February 
was the driest month (0.32 inch) and November the wettest (14.98 
inches). Table 1 gives the total yearly rainfall, and the station aver- 
age, for each year from 1925 to 1946, inclusive. 

Table 1. — Annual rainfall, Barro Colorado Island, Canal Zone 



Year: 


Total 
ivclies 


Station 
average 


Year: 


Total 
inches 


Stutio-n 
aterage 


1925 


104. 37 




1936 


93.88 


108. 98 


1926 


118.22 


113.56 


1937 


124. 13 


110. 12 


1927 


116.36 


1 14. 68 


1938 


117.09 


110.62 


1928 


101.52 


111.35 


1939 


115.47 


110.94 


1929 


87.84 


106. 56 


1940 


86.51 


109. 43 


1930 


76.57 


101.51 


1941 


91.82 


108. 41 


1931 


123.30 


104. 69 


1942 


111. 10 


108. 55 


1932 


113. 52 


105. 76 


1943 


120.29 


109. 20 


1933 


101.73 


105. 32 


1944. 


111.96 


109. 30 


1934 


122.42 


107. 04 


1945 


120.42 


109. 84 


1935 


143.42 


110. 35 


1946 


87.38 


108. 81 



Table 2 gives the rainfall by months for the years 1945 and 1946, the 
station average for each month, the excess or deficiency for each month 
and the accumulated plus or minus, and also the maximum rains each 
month for 5 and 10 minutes, and 1 and 24 hours. These maximum 
values are consecutive wherever that maximum occurred; hence the 
24-hour record is not necessarily from midnight to midnight. 

Table 3 gives the number of hours of rain each month for 1946 
and the total amount in inches, and then these data separated into 
the four 6-hour periods. These data are of interest in that they indi- 
cate when most rains may be expected. From 6 a. m. to noon there is 
less rainfall than from noon to 6 p. m. 



146 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947 

Table 2. — Comparison of 19^3 and 19^6 rainfall; and maximum rains for short 

periods 





Total 


Station 
average 


Years of 
record 


Plus or 
minus 


Accumu- 
lated 
E.orD. 


Maximum rains 


Month 


1945 


1948 


5 min- 
utes 


10 min- 
utes 


1 hour 


24 hours 


January.- -.- 


2.89 
.67 
.27 

1.59 
13. 55 
10.17 
13.87 
12.32 
10.07 
10.02 
20.60 
24.40 


.45 
.32 
1.71 
1.41 
8.05 
7.94 
12.58 
10. 50 
10,67 
9.00 
14.98 
9.77 


1.91 
1.23 
1.46 
2.79 
11.13 
11.27 
11.81 
12. 56 
10.47 
13.17 
19.30 
11.71 


21 
21 
21 
22 
22 
22 
22 
22 
22 
22 
22 
22 


-1.46 
-.91 
+.25 
-1.38 
-3.08 
-3.33 
+.77 
-2.06 
+.20 
-4.17 
-4.32 
-1.94 


-1.46 
-2.37 
-2.12 
-3. 50 
-6. .58 
-9.91 
-9.14 
-11.20 
-11.00 
-15.17 
-19.49 
-21.43 


.10 
.09 
.15 
.21 
.25 
.35 
.33 
.34 
.33 
.40 
.60 
.46 


.14 
.10 
.19 
.25 
.40 
.53 
.60 
.60 
.62 
.60 
1.05 
.82 


........ 

.37 
.65 
1.13 
1.35 
2.00 
1.83 
.90 
2.29 
1.18 


.16 


February 

March 


.20 

.69 


April- 


.73 


May 


.92 


June 


1.69 


July 


2.41 


August 


4.91 


September 

October .. 


2.50 
1.20 


November.. 

December 


4.51 
3.42 


Year 


120. 42 


87.38 


108. 81 






-21.43 
























Dry 


5.42 
115.00 


3.89 
83.49 


7.39 
101.42 






-3.50 
-17.93 










Wet 





























Table S.— Rainfall 19^6. 



Total number of hours of rain and amount in inches 
for the daily 6-hour period 



Month 


Midnight to 6 
a, m. 


C am. to noon 


Noon to 6 p. m. 


6 p. m. to mid- 
night 


Midnight to 
midnight 




Hours 


.\mount 


Hours 


Amount 


Hours 


.imount 


Houi-s 


jUnount 


Hours 


Amount 


January 


9 
8 
10 
9 
11 
19 
26 
19 
25 
25 
34 
37 


.12 

.IS 

.19 

.32 

2.97 

.84 

1.03 

.54 

1.64 

1.22 

5.29 

2.44 


3 
3 

18 
4 

12 
10 
15 
20 
16 
22 
24 
21 


.20 

.13 

.55 

.25 

.69 

2.41 

2.19 

2.70 

1.46 

1.98 

2.44 

1.92 


5 
1 

12 
6 
20 
32 
48 
29 
38 
38 
29 
31 


.05 

.01 

.94 

.73 

4.31 

4.08 

6.13 

6.84 

5.88 

4.03 

5.41 

3.78 


3 


.08 


20 

12 

43 

27 

48 

72 

108 

84 

88 

104 

114 

112 


.46 


February 


.32 


March 


3 

8 
5 
11 
19 
16 
9 

19 
27 
23 


.03 
.11 
.08 
.61 
2.63 
.42 
1.69 
1.77 
1.84 
1.63 


1.71 


April.. 


1.41 


May . - 


8.05 


June . 


7.94 


July 


12.58 


August 


10.50 


September 


10.67 


October 

November 


9.00 
14.98 


December 


9.77 






Year 


232 


17.38 


163 


16.92 


289 


42.19 


143 


10.89 


832 


87.38 






Dry 


36 
196 


.81 
16.57 


28 
140 


1.13 
15.79 


24 
265 


1.73 
40.46 


14 
129 


.22 
10.07 


102 
730 


3.89 


Wet 


83.49 







Table 4 gives a summary and analysis of the 1946 rainfall for the 
entire year and for the dry and wet seasons, both as to hours and days, 
percentage of the total possible hours (if it rained every hour) , and 
these data are signiJScant. With so much less rainfall in the dry 
season, and particularly with so high a deficiency, the animals have 
a hard time getting food. The peccary in the dry season is noticeably 
thin — very different from his condition in the wet season when food 
is more plentiful. The effects of moisture are profound. This strug- 
gle for food is also reflected in the rate of reproduction in certain of 
the mammals. A bad year, deficient in rainfall and in food, increases 
the rate of reproduction, and conversely, a year of abundant rainfall, 
an abundance of food, shows in some mammals a falling off in this 
rate. 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 



147 



Table 4. — Summary and analysis of the 19^6 rainfall for the year, and for the 

dry and wet seasons 

ENTIRE YEAB 

Total hours of rain 832 

Percentage of total possible hours 9.50 

Total days of rain 233 

Percentage of total possible days 63.84 

DRY SEASON 

Total hours of rain 102 

Percentage of total possible hours 3.54 

Total days of rain 44 

Percentage of total possible days 36.67 

Amount of rain in inches 3.S9 

Percentage of total rainfall for year 4.45 

WET SEASON 

Total hours of I'ain 730 

Percentage of total possible hours 12.42 

Total days of rain 189 

Percentage of total possible days 77.14 

Amount of rain in inches 83.49 

Percentage of total rainfall for year 95.55 

In table 5 are given (1) the number of hours and the amount of 
rains of 0.40 inch or more per hour, for each of the four 6-hour periods, 
and (2) the three heaviest rains each month (midnight to midnight). 
Rains of 0.40 inch per hour, if rather evenly distributed, will not 
seriously hamper iSeld work, but if such rains come down in 5 minutes, 
it is another story. 



Table 5. — The three heaviest rains each month and mimber of hours and amount 
of rains of 040 inch or more per hour for 19!f6 





u 

B 
"3 
o 


a 

e 

o 
Q 


1 

o 
E 
S 

w 


Midnight 
to 6 a. m. 


6 a. m. to 
noon 


Noon to 
6 p. m. 


6 p. m. to 

niidcight 


3 heaviest rains 

(midnight to 

midnight) 


Month 


B 


1 
o 

s 
< 


.s 

s 


o 

E 


1 

3 


a 

3 
o 

E 
< 


e 

3 


3 
o 

s 


January 


.45 

.32 

L71 

L41 

8.05 

7.94 

12.68 

10.50 

10.67 

9.00 

14.98 

9.77 


11 
7 

14 
12 
IG 
21 
24 
27 
20 
25 
29 
21 


20 

12 

43 

27 

48 

72 

108 

84 

88 

104 

114 

112 


















.14 .08 05 


February 


















16 06 04 


March 


















68 58 10 


April 


















.73 .29 17 


May. 


2 


1.59 



3 

3 

1 
1 
1 
1 
1 


"i.'os" 

1.50 
1. 05 
.50 
.90 
.40 
1.10 


4 
3 
3 

4 
4 
2 
.■? 
2 


2.85 
2.37 

2.48 
4.45 
3.51 
1.28 
3. 45 
1.50 






2 99 1 14 85 


June 






1 71 1 69 95 


July 






2 

' 2 
1 
1 
1 


1.08 

"i."52" 
.51 
.41 
.67 


2.48 1.91 1.33 
4.40 1.77 .91 

2.14 1.67 .96 

1.15 .91 .82 
2. .54 2.49 2.12 
3.35 1.18 1.05 


August. 






September .. 


1 

..... 

1 


.46 

''s'.HO 
.47 


October . 


November ... 


December . . 




Year 


87.38 


233 


832 


8 



8 


6.32 


11 

11 


7.68 



7.68 


25 


25 


21.89 


7 


4.79 


22. 47 13. 77 9. 35 




Dry 


3.89 
83.49 


44 
189 


102 
730 



6.32 



21.89 



7 



4.79 


1.71 1.01 .36 
20. 76 12. 76 9. 01 


Wet 





148 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947 

During the dry season, there were no rains of 0.40 inch per hour 
during 1947, and only 51 such hours in the wet season, amounting to 
40.68 inches, or 46.6 of the total rainfall for the year. And these 
40.68 inches fell during only 6.1 percent of the total hours we had 
rain. This means that the balance, 46.70 inches, fell during 781 hours, 
or an average of only .06 inch per hour. The three heaviest rains each 
month amounted to a total of 45.59 inches in only 36 days. This leaves 
only 41.79 inches for the remaining 197 days. 

Considering now these three heaviest rains each month (midnight 
to midnight) , we have the following interesting data : 

Dry season : 12 days, 3.08 inches, or 79.2 percent of the dry season total. 
Wet season : 24 days, 42.53 inches, or 50.9 percent of the wet season total. 
The year : 36 days, 45.61 inches, or 52 percent of the year's total. 

The remaining days when it rained show : 

Dry season : 32 days, 0.32 inch, or an average of 0.01 inch per day of rain. 
Wet season : 165 days, 40.96 inches, or an average of 0.248 inch per day of rain. 
The year : 197 days, 41.79 inches, or an average of 0.212 inch per day of rain. 

For comparison, the following tables are presented, covering the 
rainfall for other localities in the Canal Zone and Republic of Panama 
data on temperatures, relative humidities, barometric pressures, etc.; 
and the maximum and minimum yearly rains of record for 19 impor- 
tant localities. These data are taken from the reports of the Chief 
Meteorologist of the Panama Canal. They give a better understanding 
of the climate, and it is only to be regretted that comparable data are 
not available for a great many more localities in the Republic of Pan- 
ama. To an ecologist, these data are of inestimable value. 



Table 6. — Annual rainfall at other Panamd stations, in inches 





Total, 
1946 


Station 
average 


Excess or 
deficiency 


Years of 
record 


Balboa 


50.06 
63.18 
76.00 
65.37 
79.62 
94.39 
99.67 
88.61 
95.43 
121.83 
126.52 
170.63 
62.21 
54.06 
90.30 
80.12 
120. 95 
103. 12 


68.84 
80.14 
86.94 
88.86 
97.86 
106. 64 
95.14 
110. 03 
118. 71 
125.30 
130. 37 
160. 78 
92.46 
68.17 
100.74 
97.81 
131.64 
123. 10 


-18.78 
-16.96 
-10. 94 
-23. 49 
-18.24 
-12.25 
+4.53 
-21.42 
-23. 28 
-3.47 
-3.85 
+9.76 
-30. 25 
-14.11 
-10.44 
-17.69 
-10.69 
-19. 98 


48 


Pedro Miguel - . . 


39 


Summit.. - 


23 


Oamboa 


64 


Madden Dam 


47 


Frijoles -.. 


36 


Bohio. 


29 


Trinidad 


23 


Monte Lirio . .. .... 


39 


Qatun 


42 


Cristobal .. . . .. .. 


76 


Porto Bello 


35 


Porto Armuelles 


17 


Sta. Rosa 


21 


Salamanca 


36 


Ohilibrillo 


35 


Oandelaria 


13 


Peluca 


13 







REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 



149 



Table 7. — Maximum and minimum rainfall, Barro Colorado Island, 1925 to 19.'f(> 



January 


4.60 




February 


5.91 




March 


5.54 




April 


..._ 7.61 




May 


19.02 


3 


June 


19.31 


5 


July 


28.58 


5 



Maximum Minimum 

45 
05 
19 
10 
09 
43 
52 



August 21.44 

September 19.96 

October 22.23 

November 41. 59 

December 28. 15 



Maiimum Minimum 

5. 93 
6.07 
6.06 
7.21 

1.88 



Year 143.42 



(6.57 



Table 8. — J9/f6 pressure, temperature, relative humidity, etc. 



Pressure (reduced to sea level): 

Maximum.- 

Minimum 

Annual mean (blhourly) 

Temperature (Fahrenheit): 

Annual mean_.. 

Absolute maximum. 

Mean daily maximum 

Absolute minimum 

Mean daily minimum 

Greatest daily range 

Mean relative humidity (percent) 

Mean wet thermometer ' 

Mean dew point i. 

Mean vapor pressure i 



Balboa 
Heights 



30. oin 
29. 6S0 
29.831 

79.6 
97 
88.2 
69 

74.0 
23 

82.8 
74.1 
73.1 
.814 



Madden 
Dam 



29. 990 
29.660 
29.817 

77.9 
96 
87.3 
64 

72.0 
26 

82.8 
73.9 
72.9 
.807 



Cristobal 



30. 010 
29. 680 

20.843 

79.9 
90 
83.8 
70 
76.5 
16 

82.2 
75.4 
73.8 
.835 



1 Mean of 8 a. m. observations except Cristobal which is the mean of 8 a. m. amd 8 p.m. values. Mean 
relative humidity is bihourly mean. 

Table 9a. — Maximum amounts of precipitation in inches {years of record) 



Balboa 

Balboa Heights 
Pedro MigTieL. 
Madden Dam.. 

Qamboa 

Barro Colorado. 

Gatan 

Cristobal 



10 minutes 



1.68 
1.27 
1.23 
1.20 
1.17 
1.40 
1.36 
1.20 



1 hour 



4.78 
4.49 
3.85 
4.19 
3.85 
3.57 
5.68 
5.16 



24 hours 



7.57 
7.23 
8. 53 
9.31 
7.48 
10.48 
12.25 
13.50 



Year 



93. 06 
91.42 
110.67 
152. 04 
136. 19 
143.42 
164.19 
183.41 



Table 9b. — Maximum amounts of precipitation in inches (19^6) 





6 minutes 


10 minutes 


1 hour 


24 hours 


Balboa . 


.46 

.49 
.45 
.65 
.62 
.60 
.69 
.45 


.80 

.88 

.85 
1. 15 

.95 
1.05 
1.00 

.80 


2.54 

3.26 
2.00 
3..% 
2.14 
2.29 
2.11 
3.30 


3.19 


Balboa Heights 

Pedro Miguel 


3.92 
3.92 


Madden Dam 


4.87 


Qamboa 


3.99 


Barro Colorado 


4. 91 


Gatun 


4 74 


Cristobal 


8.41 







150 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 194 7 



Table 10. — Temperatures (Fahr.) and relative humidity, Balboa Heights 
(B. H.) and Cristobal (XBal), 1946 



Monthly mean 



1946 



B.H. 



Xbal 



Maximum 



B.H. 



Abs. 



Mean 



Xbal 



Abs. 



Mean 



Minimum 



B.H. 



Abs. 



Mean 



Xbal 



Abs. 



Mean 



Relative 
humidity 



B.H. 



Xbal 



January. . . 
February.. 

March 

April 

May 

June 

July 

August 

September. 

October 

November. 
December. 

Year. 

Dry 

Wet 



78.7 
79.2 
80.3 
81.7 
80.9 
80.5 
80.3 
73.4 
78.9 
78.2 
78.0 
78.9 



80.4 
79.7 
79.8 
81.1 
80.8 
80.6 
79.8 
79.8 
79.1 
79.0 
78.9 
79.6 



88.0 
89.4 
SO. 6 
92.2 
89.0 
75.4 
88.3 
86.9 
86.4 
86.0 
85.9 
86.8 



84.4 
83.5 
83.7 
85.1 
84.7 
77.4 
83.5 
82.7 
83.4 
84.0 
83.2 
82.9 



72.4 
72.6 
73.4 
74.7 
75.5 
75.4 
75.5 
74.7 
74.2 
73.2 
72.7 
73.1 



76.9 

76.8 
77.2 
78.2 
77.6 
77.4 
76.7 
76.6 
75.5 
74.9 
74.7 
75.9 



78.1 
73.0 
71.9 
72.8 
83.3 
85.8 
80.0 
87.6 
89.5 
88.3 
89.1 
87.6 



79.6 



79.9 



88.2 



83.8 



74.0 



70 



76.5 



82.8 



80.0 
79.4 



80.3 
79.7 



97 



90.1 
85.6 



84.2 
82.7 



73.3 
74.3 



77.3 
76.2 



74.0 
87.2 



75.6 
75.1 
75.8 
76.8 
83.3 
86.0 
87.2 
87.1 
87.4 
84.1 
83.3 
84.1 



82.2 



75. 
85.3 



Table 11. — Maximum and minimum annual rainfall of record, in inches (1946) 



Maxi- Mini- 
mum mum 

Balboa' 93.06 48.94 

Pedro Miguel ' 110. 57 58. 31 

Summit^ 111.25 67.57 

Gamboa2 136.19 62.02 

Madden Dam ^ 152.04 71.95 

Frijoles2 138.36 78.06 

Barro Colorado 2. _ _ 143. 42 76. 57 

Trinidad ' 144. 48 87. 61 

Monte Lirio 2 179. 73 85. 15 

Gatun2 164.19 80.31 



Cristobal * 

Porto Bello* 

Puerto Armuelles 

(Chiriqui) 

Santa Rosa (Code). 
Tonosi (Los Santos). 

Salamanca ^ 

Chilibrillo2 

Candelaria ' 

Peluca 2 



Maxi- 
mum 

183. 41 
237. 28 

132. 32 

77. 20 
141. 03 

leo. 46 

134. 23 

184. 98 
179. 64 



• Pacific drainage. 

' Gatun Lake drainage (Gatun Lake area). 

» Gatun Lake drainage basin (Madden Lake watershed). 

* Atlantic drainage. 



Mmi- 
mum 

86. 54 
118. 04 

58. 93 
48. 58 
51. 25 
69. 06 
72.63 
101. 79 
91. 14 



FISCAL REPORT 

During the fiscal year 1947, $16,095.88 was available, none of which 
was appropriated by Congress. Of this amount, $13,140.29 was spent, 
leaving on hand $2,955.59 to begin the new fiscal year. In addition to 
this, $3,183.96 is still on deposit, representing local collections, a total 
of $6,139.55, to which will be added the few table subscriptions, an 
amount inadequate to take care of running expenses. 

During the year $4,403.96 was collected as fees from scientists for 
board and lodging, fees from visitors, and similar items. It is hard 
to say how much will be collected during the 1948 fiscal year, but it is 
almost certain that it will not be sufficient to carry us through the year. 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 151 

The organizations listed below continued to aid materially in the 
support of the Laboratory through the payment of table fees : 

American Museum of Natural History $300.00 

Eastman Kodak Company 500.00 

Harvard University 300. 00 

New York Zoological Society 300. 00 

Smithsonian Institution 300. 00 

University of Chicago 300. 00 

It is believed that more scientists will now be able to come to the 
island, and it is therefore imperative that more institutions and uni- 
versities should help support the laboratory through table subscrip- 
tions. It is gratifying to report that Eastman Kodak Co. increased 
their subscription to $1,000 a year. 
Respectfully submitted. 

James Zatek, Resident Manager. 
Dr. Alexander Wetmore, 

Secretary^ Smithsonian Institution. 



777488—48 11 



APPENDIX 11 
KEPORT ON THE LIBRARY 

Sir : I have the honor to submit the following report on the activities 
of the Smithsonian library for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1947 : 

In this second postwar year of rehabilitation the work of the library 
was not greatly different in kind or amount from that of the previous 
year. Books are integral parts of the world of practical affairs as well 
as of ideas, and their production, distribution, and use, as well as their 
conception, follow the changing times. With the coming of peace 
there began a rise, not as yet very sharp, in the number of new books and 
serials important for the library to acquire. Prices rose and are still 
rising. The purchasing power of the inelastic allotment of book funds 
has correspondingly decreased. Paper shortages continued to limit 
the size of editions, and not a few new books went so quickly out of 
print as to make it diiRcult to get those for which prepublication orders 
had not been placed. Many fine and desirable works came into the old 
book market but prices were too high and funds too small to make it 
possible to buy more than a few of those most immediately important to 
the work of the Institution. 

Among the more noteworthy of the 1,693 purchased books were the 
following : Description Methodique du Musee Ceramique de la Manu- 
facture Royale de Sevres, by Alexandre Brongiart and others, 1845 ; 
Mammals of Amazonia, by Eladio da Cruz Lima, volume 1, 1945; 
A Monogi-aph of Oriental CicadAdae^ by William Lucas Distant, 2 
volumes, 1889-92; Histoire de la Locomotion Terrestre, les Chemins 
de Fer, by Charles Dollf uss and Edgar de Geoffroy, 2 volumes, 1935 ; 
Illustrationes Florae in Insularum Maris Pacifici, by Emmanual 
Drake del Castillo, 6 portfolios, 1886-92 ; The Royal Commentaries of 
Peru, written originally in Spanish by Garcilaso de la Vega, el Inca, 
and rendered into English by Sir Paul Rycaut, 1688; Histoire et 
Technique de la Montre Suisse de ses Origines a Nos Jours, 1945 ; The 
Etched Work of Whistler, Illustrated by Reproductions in Collotype 
of the Different States of the Plates, compiled, arranged, and described 
by Edward G. Kennedy, 1 volume of text and 3 portfolios of plates, 
1910; The Artists of America, a Series of Biographical Sketches of 
American Artists, with Portraits and Designs on Steel, by C. Ed- 
wards Lester, 1846 ; The New World ; the First Pictures of America, 
made by John White and Jacques Le Moyne and engraved by Theodore 
152 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 153 

De Bry, with Contemporary Narratives * * * edited and an- 
notated by Stefan Lorant, 1946; Thomas Nast, his Period and his 
Pictures, by Albert Bigelow Paine, 1904 ; Denmarks Fugle, by E. Lehn 
Schi0ler, 3 volumes, 1925-31 ; De Vogels van Nederlandsch Indie, by H. 
Schlegel, 3 parts in portfolio, 1863-66 ; The Voyage of Gregory Shelek- 
hof , a Russian Merchant, from Okhotzk, on the Eastern Ocean, to the 
Coast of America, in the Years 1783, 1784, 1785, 1786, 1787, and his 
Return to Russia, from his own Journal, 1795 ; Fregatten Eugenies 
Resa, 1851-1853, under Befal af C. A. Virgin, by C. J. A. Skogman, 
2 volumes in 1, 1854-55. 

Gifts of the year came from 230 different donors and included 
some of the most useful additions to the library. Reprints and 
separates on special subjects from scientific and technical serials are 
indispensable working tools of the different divisions of the Institu- 
tion, and the gifts of Dr. Ray S. Bassler and of A. B. Gahan of their 
personal collections of some 1,500 pamphlets each, on geology and 
on Hymenoptera, respectively, were most appreciated additions to the 
sectional libraries of geology and of insects. Paul Garber's gift of 
147 books and pamphlets on aeronautics greatly strengthened the li- 
brary's working collection of material in that field. As usual, the pub- 
lications generously turned over by the American Association for the 
Advancement of Science and by the American Association of Museums 
supplied considerable material not received from other sources, and 
furnished numbers of useful duplicates as well. The library is deeply 
indebted to all its friends at home and abroad who have so kindly 
made contributions to its collections. 

The total number of publications recorded by the accessions di- 
vision for the year was 62,137. Of these, 14,607 came through the 
International Exchange Service, almost three times as many as in the 
year before. With the gradual return to more nearly normal condi- 
tions it is gratifying to find in how many cases the continuity of sets 
of foreign serials published abroad during the war will not be broken 
in the library because of the care with which they were reserved, 
stored, and later shipped by the institutions with which we were in 
regular exchange before the war. This encouraging aspect of the post- 
war situation, however, does not mean that there are not, unavoidably, 
a distressing number of series that ceased publication altogether dur- 
ing the war, some of them probably never to be resumed. 

The filling of gaps in serial sets, foreign and domestic, current and 
old, requires eternal vigilance, and most of the 6,812 pieces received 
in response to our 589 requests were numbers of periodicals needed to 
fill such gaps, and were obtained chiefly in exchange. New exchanges 
arransred were 290. 



154 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 194 7 

Of the current accessions, 7,265 were cataloged or entered as addi- 
tions to the Smithsonian Deposit in the Library of Congress, and most 
of these were additions to the great Deposit sets of publications of 
scientific institutions and learned societies, so important to research. 
Some of them were continuations of series that formed part of the 
original Smithsonian Deposit in 1866. In addition, all documents, 
dissertations, and other publications on subjects not found to be of 
immediate interest to the Institution were sent directly upon receipt 
to the Library of Congress, and they numbered 13,422. 

Most but not all of the 10,749 publications transferred to the Depart- 
ment of Agriculture, the Army Medical Library, the Geological Sur- 
vey, and other libraries of the Government, had been received during 
the year. 

Our large collection of duplicates continued to be drawn upon in 
aid of destroyed libraries abroad, and 31,781 pieces were turned over 
to the American Book Center for this purpose. 

The cataloging of currently received material was well kept up on 
the whole in spite of the handicaps of inadequate staffing of this 
vitally important part of the library's work. There is always the 
problem of the huge "backlog" of poorly or completely uncataloged 
older material, which is not only serious in itself but which inevitably 
slows up some of the work of cataloging new material which is related 
to it. 

The bad housing of the library continues to be the most obvious 
and distressing of its problems. The progressive deterioration of its 
fine collections caused by overcrowding and lack of funds for binding 
is deplorable, while the inadequacies of its reading and reference rooms, 
the scattered and inconvenient locations of its shelves and stack rooms, 
and the absence of proper work rooms for the staff, all make its 
service to the Institution increasingly difficult. 



SUMMARIZED STATISTICS 

Accessions 





Volumes 


Total 

recorded 

volumes 

June 30, 1947 


Astrophvsical Observatory (including Kadiation and Organisms) 


323 
148 
430 
405 

2,851 
24 

1,243 
220 


12, 243 


Bureau of American Ethnology - .... 


34. 4fi2 


Freer Gallery of Art 


22, 127 


National Collection of Fine Arts . . 


10, 974 


National Museum . 


239, 107 


National Zoolot;ical Park. . . . 


4, 166 


Smithsonian Deposit at the Library of Congress . - 


678, 673 


Smithsonian Ofiice . . 


32, 185 






Total 


5,644 


933,997 







REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 155 

Neither incomiilete volumes of periodicals nor separates and reprints 
are included in these figures. 

Exchanges 

New exchanges arranged 290 

91 of these were assigned to the Smithsonian Deposit in the Library of 
of Congress. 

Specially requested publications received 6, 812 

1,050 of these were obtained to fill gaps in the Smithsonian Deposit 
sets. 

Cataloging 

Volumes and pamj^hlets cataloged G, 614 

Cards added to catalogs and shelf lists 35,763 

Periodicals 

Periodical parts entered 16,481 

Of these, 4,709 were sent to the Smithsonian Deposit. 

Circulation 

Loans of books and periodicals 9,534 

This figure does not include the intramural circulation of books and 
periodicals filed in 31 sectional libraries, of which no count is kept. 

Binding 

Volumes sent to the bindery 616 

Volumes repaired in the Museum 1, 057 

Respectfully submitted. 

Leila F. Clark, Librarian. 
Dr. Alexander Wetmore, 

Secretary^ Smithsonian Institution. 



APPENDIX 12 

KEPOKT ON PUBLICATIONS 

Sir : I have the honor to submit the following report on the publi- 
cations of the Smithsonian Institution and its branches during the year 
ended June 30, 1947. 

The Institution published during the year 26 papers in the Smith- 
sonian Miscellaneous Collections, 1 Annual Report of the Board of Re- 
gents and pamphlet copies of 22 articles in the report appendix, 1 An- 
nual Report of the Secretary, and 3 special publications. 

The United States National Museum issued 1 Annual Report, 8 Pro- 
ceedings papers, 3 Bulletins, and 2 separate papers in the bulletin se- 
ries, Contributions from the United States National Herbarium. 

The Bureau of American Ethnology issued 1 Annual Report and 1 
Publication of the Institute of Social Anthropology. 

The Freer Gallery issued 1 pamphlet, 1 paper in its Oriental Studies 
series, and 1 paper in its Occasional Papers series. 

Of the publications there were distributed 158,129 copies, which in- 
cluded 35 volumes and separates of Smithsonian Contributions to 
Knowledge, 50,353 volumes and separates of Smithsonian Miscellane- 
ous Collections, 20,880 volumes and separates of Smithsonian Annual 
Reports, 9,008 War Background Studies, 23,235 Smithsonian special 
publications, 22 reports on the Harriman Alaska Expedition, 34,952 
volumes and separates of National Museum publications, 7,948 publi- 
cations of the Bureau of American Ethnology, 257 publications of the 
Institute of Social Anthropology, 5 catalogs of the National Collec- 
tion of Fine Arts, 2,561 volumes and pamphlets of the Freer Gallery 
of Art, 20 Annals of the Astrophysical Observatory, 374 reports of 
the American Historical Association, and 8,479 miscellaneous publi- 
cations not printed by the Smithsonian Institution (mostly Survival 
Manuals) . 

SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS 

In this series there were issued 1 paper and title page and table 
of contents in volume 104, whole volume 105, 18 papers and title page 
and table of contents in volume 106, and 6 papers in volume 107, as 
follows : 

156 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 157 

VOLUME 104 

No. 23 (end of volume). The Cedartown, Georgia, meteorite, by Stuart H. 
Perry. 3 pp., 4 pis. (Publ. 3844.) Aug. 1, 1946. 

Title page and table of contents. (Publ. 3891.) Feb. 11, 1947. 

VOLUME 105 

World Weather Records, 1931-1940, by H. Helm Clayton and Frances L. Clayton. 
x+646pp. (Publ. 3803.) Apr. 4, 1947. 

VOLUME 106 

No. 1. The birds of San Jose and Pedro Gonzalez Islands, Republic of Panama, 
by Alexander Wetmore. 60 pp., 4 pis. (Publ. 3845.) Aug. 5, 1936. 

No. 2. The vegetation of San Jose Island, Republic of Panama, by C. O. 
Erlanson. 12 pp., 2 pis., 1 fig. (Publ. 3846.) July 18, 1946. 

No. 5. Echinoderms from the Pearl Islands, Bay of Panama, v?ith a revision 
of the genus £ncope, by Austin H. Clark. 11 pp., 4 pis. (Publ. 3849.) July 18, 
1946. 

No. 6. The nonmariue mollusks of San Jose Island, with notes on those of 
Pedro Gonzalez Island, Pearl Islands, Panama, by J. P. E. Morrison. 49 pp., 

3 pis. (Publ. 3850.) Sept. 12, 1946. 

No. 7. Mammals of San Jose Island, Bay of Panama, by Remington Kellogg. 

4 pp. (Publ. 3851.) July 18, 1946. 

No. 8. Turtles collected by the Smithsonian Biological Survey of the Panama 
Canal Zone, by Karl Patterson Schmidt. 9 pp., 1 pi. (Publ. 3852.) Aug. 1, 1946. 

No. 9. The species of Platycopia Sars (Copepoda, Calanoida), by Mildred 
Stratton Wilson. 16 pp., 2 figs. (Publ. 3853.) Aug. 23, 1946. 

No. 10. A reexamination of the fossil human skeletal remains from Melbourne, 
Florida, by T. D. Stewart. 28 pp., 8 pis., 7 figs. (Publ. 3854.) Aug. 9, 1946. 

No. 13. A new carnivorous dinosaur from the Lance formation of Montana, 
by Charles W. Gilmore. 19 pp., 4 pis. (Publ. 3857.) Sept. 12, 1946. 

No. 14. A new dussumieriid fish of the genus Jenkinsia from Bermuda, by 
Luis Rene Rivas. 4 pp., 1 pL, 1 fig. (Publ. 3859.) Nov. 22, 1946. 

No. 15. Ladybeetles of the genus Epilachna (sens, lat.) in Asia, Europe, and 
Australia, by G. H. Dieke. 183 pp., 27 pis. (Publ. 3860.) Jan. 20, 1947. 

No. 16. New birds from Colombia, by Alexander Wetmore. 14 pp. (Publ. 
3862.) Dec. 30, 1946. 

No. 17. Some new Cambrian bellerophont gastropods, by J. Brookes Knight. 
11 pp., 2 pis. ( Publ. 3865. ) Jan. 3, 1947. 

No. 18. On the evolutionary significance of the Pycuogonida, by Joel W. Hedg- 
peth. 53 pp., 1 pi., 16 figs. (Publ. 3866.) Mar. 24, 1947. 

No. 19. The lamina terminalis and preoptic recess of Amphibia, by Albert 
K.Reese. 9 pp., 4 pis. (Publ. 3867.) Jan. 27, 1947. 

No. 20. A monograph of the West Atlantic mollusks of the family Aclididae, by 
PaulBartsch. 29 pp., 6 pis. (Publ. 3868.) Feb. 24, 1947. 

No. 21. Developmental physiology of the grass seedling. II. Inhibition of meso- 
cotyl elongation in various grasses by red and by violet light, by Robert L. Wein- 
traub and Leonard Price. 15 pp., 5 figs. (Publ. 3869.) May 8, 1947. 

No. 22. Solar cycles, by H. H. Clayton. 18 pp., 9 figs. (Publ. 3870.) Mar. 5. 
1947. 

Title page and table of contents. (Publ. 3899.) June 11, 1947. 



158 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947 

VOLUME 107 

No. 1. The Etlinogeographic Board, by Wendell Clark Bennett. 135 pp., 2 flgs. 
(Publ. 38S9.) Apr. 14, 1947. 

No. 2. The thoracic muscles of the cockroach Periplaneta americana (L.), by 
C. S. Carbonell. 2a pp., 8 pis. ( Publ. 3890. ) May 8, 1947. 

No. 3. 1946-1947 report on the 27.0074-day cycle in Washington precipitation, 
by C.G.Abbot. 2 pp. (Publ. 3892.) Mar. 17, 1947. 

No. 4. The sun's short regular variation and its large effect on terrestrial tem- 
peratures, by C. G. Abbot. 33 pp., 12 figs. (Publ. 3893.) Apr. 4, 1947. 

No. 5. The dates and editions of Curtis' British Entomology, by Richard E. 
Blackwelder. 27 pp., 4 pis., 15 figs. (Publ. 3894.) June 12, 1947. 

No. 6. Prehistory and the Missouri Valley development program : Summary 
report on the Missouri River Basin archeological survey in 1946, by Waldo R. 
Wedel. 17 pp., 2 pis., 1 fig. (Publ. 3895.) Apr. 23, 1947. 

SMITHSONIAN ANNUAL REPORT 

Report for 194^. — The complete volume of the Annual Report of 
the Board of Regents for 1945 was received from the Public Printer 
December 4, 1946 : 

Annual Report of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution showing 
the operations, expenditures, and condition of the Institution for the year ended 
June 30, 1945. iv-f 484 pp., 80 pis., 28 figs. ( Publ. 3817. ) 

The general appendix contained the following papers (Pubis. 3818- 
3839) : 

Our revolving "island universe" and its spiraling counterparts, by William T. 

SkiUing. 
Medical uses of the cyclotron, by F. G. Spear. 

Drinking water from sea vpater, by W. V. Consolazio, N. Pace, and A. C. Ivy. 
Plastics and metals — competitors or collaborators? by G. K. Scribner. 
The mineral position of the United States and the outlook for the future, by 

Elmer W. Pehrson. 
Japanese earthquakes, by N. H. Heck. 
Conquest of the Northvpest Passage by R. C. M. P. schooner St. Roch, by J. Levels 

Robinson. 
The Nevp England hurricane of September 1944, by Charles F. Brooks and Conrad 

Chapman. 
Conserving endangered wildlife species, by Hartley H. T. Jackson. 
Living with the boll weevil for fiity years, by U. C. Loftin. 
The indispensable honeybee, by James I. Hambleton. 
The importance of plants, by William J. Bobbins. 
Fungi and modern affairs, by J. Ramsbottom. 
The introduction of abacd (Manila hemp) into the Western Hemisphere, by H. T. 

Edwards. 
Growing rubber in California, by E. L. Perry. 
Thinking about race, by S. L. Washburn. 
A unique prehistoric irrigation project, by Henry C. Shetrone. 
Concepts of the sun among American Indians, by M. W. Stirling. 
Human problems in military aviation, by Detlev W. Bronk. 
Blood and blood derivatives, by Edwin J. Cohn. 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 159 

The microbiotics, by John N. McDonnell. 

A brief summary of the Smithsonian Institution's part in World War II. 

Report for 191^6. — The Keport of the Secretary, which included the 
financial report of the executive committee of the Board of Regents, 
and which will form part of the Annual Report of the Board of 
Regents to Congress, was issued January 7, 1947 : 

Report of the Secretary of the Smithsonian Infftitutlon and financial report 
of the executive committe of the Boai-d of Regents for the year ended June 30, 
1946. ix+134 pp., 2 pis. (Publ. 3864.) 1947. 

The Report volume for 1946, containing the general appendix, was 
in press at the close of the year. 

SPECIAL PUBLICATIONS 

The first hundred years of the Smithsonian Institution, 1846-1946, by Webster 
P. True, viii+64 pp., 41 pis. (Publ. C.) Aug. 10, 1946. 

The Smithsonian Institution edition of etchings and drypoints by Charles W. 
Dahlgreen. Catalogue. 19 pp., 71 illustrations. 1946. 

Classified list of Smithsonian publications available for distribution Decem- 
ber 1, 1946, compiled by Helen Munroe. 53 pp. (Publ. 3858.) 1946. 

PUBLICATIONS OF THE UNITED STATES NATIONAL MUSEUM 

The editorial work of the National Museum has continued during 
the year under the immediate direction of the editor, Paul H. Oehser. 
There were issued 1 Annual Report, 8 Proceedings papers, 3 Bulletins, 
and 2 separate papers in the bulletin series, Contributions from the 
United States National Herbarium. 

RETORTS 

Report on the progress and condition of the United States National Museum 
for the year ended June 30, 1946. iii+113 pp. Jan. 14, 1947, 

PROCEEDINGS : VOLUME 9 5 

Title page, table of contents, list of illustrations, and index. Pp. i-viii, 615-047. 
Mar. 24, 1947. 

VOLUME 96 

No. 3200. Eight new species of chalcid-flies of the genus Pseudaphycus Clausen, 
with a key to the species, by A. B. Gahan. Pp. 311-327. Nov. 22, 1946. 

No. 3201. New cerambycid beetles belonging to the tribe DisteniinI from Cen- 
tral and South America, by W. S. Fisher. Pp. 329-333. Nov. 26, 1946. 

No. 3202. Machaeroides eotlicn Matthew, the sabertooth creodont of the 
Bridger Eocene, by C. Lewis Gazin. Pp. 335-347, pis. 45-46. Dec. 16, 1946. 

No. 3203. Review of some chalcidoid genera related to Cerocephala Westwood, 
by A. B. Gahan. Pp. 349-376, pis. 47, 48. Dec. 31, 1946. 

No. 3204. A revision of the genera of mullets, fishes of the family Mugilidae, 
with descriptions of three new genera, by Leonard P. Schultz. Pp. 377-395, 
figs. 28-32. Dec. 5, 1946. 

No. 3205. The phorid flies of Guam, by G. E. Bohart. Pp. 397-416, figs. 
38-48. Feb. 17, 1947. 



160 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947 

VOLUME 9 7 

No. 3209. New cerambycid beetles belonging to the tribe Rhinotragini, by 
W. S. Fisher. Pp. 47-57. June 6, 1947. 

BULLETINS 

No. 50, part 10. Birds of North and Middle America. Families Cracidae. 
Tetraonidae, Phasianidae, Numididae, Meleagrididae, by Robert Ridgway and 
Herbert Friedmann. Pp. i-xii, 1-484, figs. 1-28. Dec. 18, 1946. 

No. 191. Life histories of North American jays, crows, and titmice, by Arthur 
Cleveland Bent. Pp. i-xi, 1-495, pis. 1-68. Jan. 27, 1947. 

No. 192. The operculate land mollusks of the family Annulariidae of the 
island of Hispaniola and the Bahama Archipelago, by Paul Bartsch. Pp. 1-264, 
pis. 1-38. Oct. 3, 1946. 

CONTRIBUTIONS FROM THE UNITED STATES NATIONAL HERBARIUM 

VOLUME 29 

Part 3. The American species of Hymenophpllum, section Sphaerocionium, 
by C. V. Morton. Pp. i-viii, 139-201. Apr. 16, 1947. 

VOLUME 30 

Part. 1. A botanical bibliography of the islands of the Pacific, by Elmer D. 
Merrill. Pp. 1-322. A subject index to Elmer D. Merrill's "A Botanical Bibli- 
ography of the Islands of the Pacific," by Egbert H. Walker. Pp. 323-404. 
Feb. 25, 1947. 

PUBLICATIONS OF THE BUREAU OF AMERICAN ETHNOLOGY 

The editorial work of the Bureau has continued under the immedi- 
ate direction of the editor, M. Helen Palmer. During the year the 
following publications were issued : 

Sixty-third Annual Report of the Bureau of American Ethnology, 1945-1946. 
12 pp. 

Institute of Social Anthropology Publ. No. 3. Moche, a Peruvian coastal com- 
munity, by John Gillin. 166 pp., 26 pis., 8 figs., 1 map. 

FREER GALLERY OF ART 

The Freer Gallery of Art issued three publications, as follows : 

The Freer Gallery of Art. 16 pp., 7 pis., 3 figs. January 1947. 

A descriptive and illustrative catalog of Chinese bronzes acquired during the 
administration of John Ellerton Lodge, compiled by the staif of the Freer Gallery 
of Art. Oriental Studies, No. 3, 108 pp., frontispiece and 50 pis., 47 figs., 2 maps. 
(Publ. 3805.) 1946. 

The Grand Empress Dowager Wgn Ming and the Northern Wei Necropolis at 
Fang Shan, by A. G. Wenley. Occasional Papers, vol. 1, No. 1, 28 pp., 7 pis., 3 figs. 
(Publ. 3861.) Feb. 1, 1947. 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 161 

REPORT OF THE AMERICAN HISTORICAL ASSOCIATION 

The annual reports of the American Historical Association are 
transmitted by the association to the Secretary of the Smithsonian 
Institution and are communicated by him to Congress, as provided by 
the act of incorporation of the Association. The following report 
volume was issued this year. 

Annual Report of the American Historical Association for 1945. Vol. 1, Pro- 
ceedings and list of members. 1947. 

The following were in press at the close of the fiscal year : Annual 
Report of the American Historical Association for 1945. Vol. 2, 
Spain in the Mississippi Valley, 1765-1794, pt. 1, The Revolutionary 
period, 1765-1781 ; vol. 3, Spain in the Mississippi Valley, 1765-1794, 
pt. 2, Postwar decade, 1782-1791 ; vol. 4, Spain in the Mississippi Val- 
ley, 1765-1794, pt. 3, Problems of frontier defense, 1792-1794. 

REPORT OF THE NATIONAL SOCIETY, DAUGHTERS OF THE) 
AMERICAN REVOLUTION 

The manuscript of the Forty-ninth Annual Report of the National 
Society, Daughters of the American Revolution, was transmitted to 
Congress, in accordance with law, October 30, 1946. 

APPROPRIATION FOR PRINTING AND BINDING 

The congressional appropriation for printing and binding for the 
past year was entirely obligated at the close of the year. The appro- 
priation for the coming fiscal year ending June 30, 1948, totals $100,000, 
allotted as follows : 

General administration (Annual Report of the Board of Re- 
gents; Annual Report of the Secretary) $18,500 

National Museum 41, 000 

Bureau of American Ethnology 15, 500 

National Air Museum 950 

Editorial Division (Annual Report of the American Historical 

Association ; blank forms) 13, 500 

Reserve (preferably for binding) 10,550 



100,000 
Respectfully submitted. 

W. P. True, Chiefs Editorial Division. 
Dr. A. Wetmore, 

Secretary^ Smithsonian Institution. 



REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE OF 
THE BOARD OP REGENTS OF THE SMITH- 
SONIAN INSTITUTION 

FOR THE YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 1947 

To the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution: 

Your executive committee respectfully submits the following report 
in relation to the funds of the Smithsonian Institution, together with a 
statement of the appropriations by Congress for the Government 
bureaus in the administrative charge of the Institution. 

SMITHSONIAN ENDOWMENT FUND 

The original bequest of James Smithson was £104,960 8s. 6d. — 
$508,318.46. Refunds of money expended in prosecution of the claim, 
freights, insurance, etc., together with pajaiient into the fund of the 
sum of £5,015, which had been withheld during the lifetime of Madame 
de laBatut, brought the fund to the amount of $550,000. 

Since the original bequest, the Institution has received gifts from 
various sources, the income from which may be used for the general 
work of the Institution. These, including the original bequest, plus 
savings, are listed below, together with the income for the present year. 

ENDOWMENT FUNDS 

(Income for unrestricted use of tbe Institution) 

Partly deposited in United States Treasury at 6 percent and partly invested in 

stocks, bonds, etc. 



Investment 



income pres- 
ent year 



Parent fund (original Smithson bequest, plus accumulated savings) 

Subseqr.ent bequests, gifts, etc., partly deposited in the U. S. Treasury and 
partly invested in the consolidated fund: 

Avery, Robert S. and Lydia, bequest fund 

Endowment fund ._ -- 

Habel, Dr. S.. bequest fund - 

Hachenberg, George P. and Caroline, bequest fund 

Hamilton, James, bequest fund -^- - 

Henry, Caroline, bequest fund 

Hodgkins, Thomas O. (general), gift --- 

Porter, Henry Kirke, memorial fund 

Rhees, William Jones, bequest fund - 

Sanford, George H., memorial fund 

Witherspoon, Thomas A., memorial fund - 

Special fund, stock in reorganized closed banks - -- 

Total 

Grand total - 



$72S, 876. 85 



54,019.08 

316, 080. 70 

.500. 00 

4, 074. 69 

2, 908. 99 

1, 225. 34 
146, 377. 67 
290, 162. 47 

1,069.31 

2, 001. 92 
130, 748. 49 

2, 280. 00 



950, 448. 66 



$43, 705. 93 



2, 409. 11 

12,120.32 

30.00 

156.60 

165. 71 

47.07 

8, 127. 52 

10. 860. 78 

53. 79 

100. 63 

5, 025. 26 

144. 00 



39, 240. 79 



1,679.325.51 



82, 946. 72 



162 



REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE 



163 



The Institution holds also a number of endowment gifts, the income 
of each being restricted to specific use. These, plus accretions to date, 
are listed below, together with income for the present year. 



Investment 



Income,' 
present year 



Abbott, William L., fund for investigations in biology _.. 

Arthur, James, fund for investigations and study of the sun and lecture on 
same 

Bacon, Virginia Purdy, fund, for traveling scliolarship to investigate fauna 
of count rios other than the United Slates 

Baird, Lucy n., fund for creating a memorial to Secretary Baird 

Barstow, Frederick D., fund, for purchase of animals for Zoological Park 

Canfiold Collection fund for Increase and care of the Canfield collection of 
minerals - 

Casey, Thomas L., fund, for maintenance of the Casey collection, and pro- 
motion of researches relating to Colooptera 

Chamberlain, Francis Lea, fund, for increase and promotion of Isaac Lea 
collection of gems and mullusks , 

Eickemeyer, Florence Brevocrt, fund, for preservation and exhibition of the 
photographic collection of Rudolph Eickemeyer, Jr 

Hillyer, Virgil, fund, for increase and care of Virgil Hiilyer collection of light- 
ing objects -.- - 

Hitchcock, Dr. Albert S., library fund, for care of Hitchcock Agrostological 
Library --- 

Hodgkins fund, specific, for increase and dilTusion of more exact knowledge 
in regard to nature and properties of atmospheric air 

HrdliSka, Ales and Marie, fund, to further researches in physical anthro- 
pology and publication in connection therewith.. 

HrdliCka, special - - - 

Hughes, Bruce, fund, to found Hughes alcove 

Long, Annette and Edith C, fund, for upkeep and preservation of Long 
collection of embroideries, laces, etc 

Maxwell, Mary E., fund, for care, etc., of Maxwell Collection 

Myer, Catherine Waldon, fund, for purchase of first-class works of art for the 
use and benefit of the National Collection of Fine Arts 

Strong, Julia D., bequest fund, for benefit of National Collection of Fine Arts 

Pell, Cornelia Livingston, fund, for maintenance of Alfred Duane Pell 
collection. . _ 

Poore, Lucy T. and Oetirge W., fund, for general use of the Institution when 
principal amomtts to $250,000 

Rathbim, Richard, memorial fund, for use of division of U. S. National 
Museum containing Crustacea 

Reid, Addison T., fund, for founding chair in biology In memory of Asher 
Tunis -. 

Roebliug Collection fund, for care, improvement, and Increase of Roebllng 
collection of mkiorals. - 

Rollins, Miriam and William, fund, for investigations in physics and chem- 
istry — 

Smithsonian employees' retirement fund 

Springer, Frank, fund, for care, etc., of Springer collection and library 

Walcott, Charles D. and Mary Vaux, research fund, for development of 
geological and palcontological studies and publishing results thereof 

Younger, Helen 'Walcott, fund, held in trust.. 

Zerbee, Frances Brinekl6, fund, for endowment of aquaria 

Total 



$108,401.17 

40, 519. 67 

50, 7fiO. 18 

24. 393. 69 

1,012.92 

38. 750. 42 

9, 292. 84 

28,531.11 

513.98 

6, 058. 71 

1, 598. 08 

100, 000. 00 

18, 6.33. 01 
12,500.00 

19, 393. 22 

550. 14 
9, 988. 40 

19, 205. 20 
10, 130. 05 

7,510.01 

105,985.13 

10, 775. 93 

30, 244. 04 

122, 276. 63 

95, 136. 99 
80, 277. 80 
18, 108. 84 

430, 819. 07 

50,125.12 

961.02 



$4, 202. 00 

1, 557. 36 

1, 950. 95 
937. 50 
38.94 

1, 489. 35 

357. 15 

1,096.58 

19.73 

255. 91 

61.43 

6,000.00 

716. 12 

745. 34 

21.12 
95.98 

738. 12 
389. 32 

288. 62 
4, 648. 64 

414. 10 

1,451.08 

4, 699. 63 

3, 6.57. 02 

3, 085. 45 

698. 28 

15, 891. 98 

2, 684. 58 

36.94 



1,453,113.97 



58, 230. 54 



The above funds amount to a total of $3,132,439.48 and are carried 
in the following investment accounts of the Institution : 

U. S. Treasury deposit account, drawing 6 percent interest $1, 000, 000. 00 

Consolidated investment fund (income in table below) 1, 859, 686, 86 

Real estate, mortgages, etc 208, 771. 73 

Special funds, miscellaneous investments 52,234.83 

Uninvested capital 11, 746. 06 

Total 3, 132, 439. 48 



164 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947 

CONSOLIDATED FUND 

This fund contains substantially all the investments of the Institu- 
tion, with the exception of those of the Freer Gallery of Art ; the deposit 
of $1,000,000 in the United States Treasury, with guaranteed income 
of 6 percent ; and investments in real estate and real-estate mortgages. 
This fund contains endowments for both unrestricted and specific use. 
A statement of principal and income of this fund for the last 10 years 
follows : 



Fiscal year 


Principal 


Income 


Per- 
cent- 
age 


Fiscal year 


Principal 


Income 


Per- 
cent- 
age 


1938 


$867, 528. 50 
902, 801. 27 
1,081,249.25 
1,093,301.51 
1,270,968.45 


$34,679.64 
30, 710. 53 
38, 673. 29 
41,167.38 
46, 701. 98 


4.00 
3.40 
3.47 
3.76 
3.67 


1943 


$1,316,533.49 
1,372,516.41 
1,454,957.73 
1,559,215.25 
1,871,432.92 


$50, 524. 22 
50, 783. 79 
50, 046. 67 
57, 612. 38 
74,836.55 


3.83 


1939 


1944.. 

1945 


3.69 


1940 _ 


3.50 


1941,.. 


1946 

1947 


3 69 


1942,. 


4.00 









CONSOLIDATED FUND 

Gain in investments over year 1946 

Investments made from gifts and savings on income $314, 400. 71 

Less loss on sales of securities 2, 183. 04 



Total 312, 217. 67 

FREER GALLERY OF ART FUND 

Early in 1906, by deed of gift, Charles L. Freer, of Detroit, gave to 
the Institution his collection of Chinese and other Oriental objects of 
art, as well as paintings, etchings, and other works of art by Whistler, 
Thayer, Dewing, and other artists. Later he also gave funds for the 
construction of a building to house the collection, and finally in his 
will, probated November 6, 1919, he provided stock and securities to 
the estimated value of $1,958,591.42, as an endowment fund for the 
operation of the Gallery. 

The above fund of Mr. Freer was almost entirely represented by 
20,465 shares of stock in Parke, Davis & Co. As this stock advanced in 
value, much of it was sold and the proceeds reinvested so that the fund 
now amounts to $6,069,845.32 in a selected list of securities classified 
later. 

The invested funds of the Freer bequest are under the following 
headings : 

Court and grounds fund $679, 970. 31 

Court and grounds maintenance fund 170, 756. 06 

Curator fund 691, 983. 14 

Residuary legacy fund 4,527,135.81 

Total - 6, 069, 845. 32 



REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE 
Statement of principal and income for the last 10 years 



165 



Fiscal year 


Principal 


Income 


Percent- 
age 


1938 


$4, 820, 777. 31 
5, 075, 976. 76 
6,112,953.46 
6, 030, 586. 91 
5,912,878.64 
5, 836, 772. 01 
5,881,402.17 
6,864,001.73 
6,994,394.31 
6, 069, 845. 32 


$255,651.61 
212,751.78 
242, 573. 92 
233, 079. 22 
241,557.77 
216,125.07 
212,395.27 
212,552.69 
220,818.86 
242,471.02 


5.30 


1939 - 


4.19 


1940 . - -^ 


3.96 


1941 


3.86 


1942 -- 


4.08 


1943 


3.70 


1944 


3.61 


1945. .- 


3.62 


1946.... 


3.68 


1947 ... . 


4.00 







FREER FUND 

Gain during present year from sale, call of securities, etc $75, 451. 01 

SUMMARY OF ENDOWMENTS 

Invested endowment for general purposes $1, 679, 325. 51 

Invested endowment for specific purposes other than Freer endow- 
ment 1, 453, 113. 97 

Total invested endowment other than Freer endowment 3, 132, 439. 48 

Freer invested endowment for specific purposes 6,069,845.32 

Total invested endowment for all purposes 9, 202, 284. 80 



CLASSIFICATION OF INVESTMENTS 

Deposited in the U. S. Treatury at 6 percent per annum, as 

authorized in the U. S. Revised Statutes, sec. 5591 $1, 000, 000. 00 

Investments other than Freer endowment (cost or market value at 
date acquired) : 

Bonds (20 different groups) $706, 418. 10 

Stocks (50 different groups) 1, 276, 348. 59 

Real estate and first-mortgage notes 137, 926. 73 

Uninvested capital 11,746.06 

2, 132, 439. 48 



Total investments other than Freer endowment 3, 132, 439. 48 

Investment of Freer endowment (cost or market 
value at date acquired) : 

Bonds (27 different groups) $2,783,575.97 

Stocks (53 different groups) 3,240,824.22 

Real estate first-mortgage notes 1,000.00 

Uninvested capital 44,445.13 

6,069,845.32 

Total investments - .. 9, 202, 284. SO 



166 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947 

CASH BALANCES, RECEIPTS, AND DISBURSEMENTS DURING FISCAL 

YEAR 1947^ 

Cash balance on hand June 30, 1946 $807,410.45 

Receipts : 

Cash income from various sources for general 
work of the Institution $98, 7(Jl, 91 

Cash gifts for general work of the Institution 

(for investment) 290,500.00 

Cash gifts and contributions expendable for spe- 
cial scientific objects (not for investment) 66, 150. SO 

Cash income from endowments for specific use 
other than Freer endowment and from miscel- 
laneous sources (including refund of tempo- 
rary advances) 155,903.83 

Cash capital from sale, call of securities, etc. (for 
investment) 212, 2W. 20 



Total receipts other than Freer endowment 823, 610. 74 

Cash income from Freer endowment 242, 471. 02 

Cash capital from sale, call of securities, etc. (for 

investment) 952,838.45 



Total receipts from Freer endowment .. 1, 195, 309. 47 



Total 2, 826, 330. 66 

Disbursements : 

From funds for general work of the Institution : 

Buildings — care, repairs, and alteration $2, 441. 18 

Furniture and fixtures 451. 55 

General administration 37, 110. 39 

Library 3, 133. 88 

Publications (comprising preparation, print- 
ing and distribution) 19,186.21 



Researches and explorations 22, 682. 26 



85, 005. 47 



From funds for specific use other than Freer en- 
dowment : 

Investments made from gifts and from sav- 
ings on income 312,217.67 

Other expenditures, consisting largely of re- 
search work, travel, increase and care of 
special collections, etc., from income of en- 
dowment funds, and from cash gifts for 
specific use (including temporary ad- 
vances) 148, 330. 32 

Reinvestment of cash capital from sale, call 

of securities, etc 195, 046. 45 

Cost of handling securities, fee of investment 
counsel, and accrued interest on bonds pur- 
chased 3, 478. 27 



659, 072. 71 



1 This statement does not include Government appropriations under the administrative 
charge of the Institution. 



REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE 167 

Disbursements — Continued 
From Freer endowment : 

Operating expenses of the Gallery, salaries, 

field expenses, etc $79, 218. 52 

Purchase of art objects 124, 790. 00 

Reinvestment of cash capital from sale, call 

of securities, etc gsi, 000. 95 

Cost of handling securities, fee of invest- 
ment counsel, and accrued interest on 

bonds purchased 21,786.82 

$1, 179, 796. 29 

Cash balance June 30, 1947 902, 456. 19 



Total 2, 826, 330. 66 

Included in the above receipts was cash received as royalties from 
sales of Smithsonian Scientific Series to the amount of $28,539.80. 
This was distributed as follows : 

Smithsonian Institution endowment fund $12, 608. 21 

Smithsonian Institution emergency fund 3, 152. 05 

Smithsonian Institution unrestricted fund, general 9,456.16 

Salaries 3, 323. 38 



28, 539. 80 
Included in the foregoing are expenditures for researches in pure 
science, publications, explorations, care, increa.se, and study of collec- 
tions, etc., as follows : 

Expended from general funds of the Institution: 

Publications $19, 186. 21 

Researches and explorations 22, 682. 26 

$41, 868. 47 

Expenditures from funds devoted to specific purposes : 

Researches and explorations 64,917.41 

Care, Increase, and study of special collections 3, 186. 41 

Publications 10, 996. 61 

79, 100. 43 

Total 120, 968. 90 

The practice of depositing on time in local trust companies and 
banks such revenues as may be spared temporarily has been continued 
during the past year, and interest on these deposits has amounted to 
$642.64. 

The Institution gratefully acknowledges gifts or bequests from the 
following : 

The Viking Fund, Inc., New York City, for Iroquois research. 

Ernest N. May, for scientific exploration, particularly in the West Indies. 

John A. Roebling, as a further contribution for research in radiation. 

777488 — 48 12 



168 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 194 7 

Mary E. Maxwell, for care, presentation and additions to Maxwell collection of 

jewelry, etc. 
Miss Annie-May Hegeman, for Henry Kirke Porter Memorial Fund. 

All payments are made by check, signed by the Secretary of the 
Institution on the Treasurer of the United States, and all revenues are 
deposited to the credit of the same account. In many instances de- 
posits are placed in bank for convenience of collection and later with- 
drawn and deposited in the United States Treasury. 

The foregoing report relates only to the private funds of the In- 
stitution. 

The following appropriations were made by Congress for the Gov- 
ernment bureaus under the administrative charge of the Smithsonian 
Institution for the fiscal year 1947 : 

Salaries and expenses $1, 632, 912. 00 

National Zoological Park 432, 500. 00 

In addition, funds were transferred from other Departments of the 
Government for expenditure under direction of the Smithsonian In- 
stitution : 

Cooperation with the American Republics (transfer from State 
Department) $139, 589. 00 

Working fund, transferred from National Park Service, Interior 
Department, for archeological investigations in Missouri River 
Basin 71, 500. 00 

The report of the audit of the Smithsonian private funds is given 
below : 

September 17, 1947. 
Executive Committed:, Boakd of Regents, 

Smithsonian Institution, Washington, D. C. 

Sirs : Pursuant to agreement we have audited the accounts of the Smithsonian 
Institution for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1947, and certify the balances of cash 
on hand, including petty cash fund, June 30, 1947, to be $904,356.19. 

We have verified the records of receipts and disbursements maintained by 
the Institution and the agreement of the book balances with the bank balances. 

We have examined all the securities in the custody of the Institution and in 
the custody of the banks and found them to agree with the book records. 

We have compared the stated income of such securities with the receipts of 
record and found them in agreement therewith. 

We have examined all vouchers covering disbursements for account of the In- 
stitution during the fiscal year ended June 30, 1947, together with the authority 
therefor, and have compared them with the Institution's record of expenditures 
and found them to agree. 

We have examined and verified the accounts of the Institution with each trust 
fund. 

We found the books of account and records well and accurately kept and the 
securities conveniently filed and securely cared for. 



REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE 169 

All information requested by your auditors was promptly and courteously 
furnished. 

We certify the balance sheet, in our opinion, correctly presents the financial 
condition of the Institution as at June 30, 1947. 

William L. Yaegee, 
Certified Public Accountant. 
Kespectfully submitted. 

Vannevak Bush, 
Clarence Cannon, 
Executive GoTrwiittee. 



GENEKAL APPENDIX 

TO THE 

SMITHSONIAN EEPOET FOE 1947 



171 



ADVERTISEMENT 

The object of the General Appendix to the Annual Report of the 
Smithsonian Institution is to furnish brief accounts of scientific dis- 
covery in particular directions; reports of investigations made by 
collaborators of the Institution ; and memoirs of a general character 
or on special topics that are of interest or value to the numerous 
correspondents of the Institution. 

It has been a prominent object of the Board of Regents of the 
Smithsonian Institution from a very early date to enrich the annual 
report required of them by law with memoirs illustrating the more 
remarkable and important developments in physical and biological 
discovery, as well as showing the general character of the operations 
of the Institution; and, during the greater part of its history, this 
purpose has been carried out largely by the publication of such papers 
as would possess an interest to all attracted by scientific progress. 

In 1880, induced in part by the discontinuance of an annual sum- 
mary of progress which for 30 years previously had been issued by 
well-known private publishing firms, the Secretary had a series of 
abstracts prepared by competent collaborators, showing concisely the 
prominent features of recent scientific progress in astronomy, geology, 
meteorology, physics, chemistry, mineralogy, botany, zoology, and 
anthropology. This latter plan was continued, though not altogether 
satisfactorily, down to and including the year 1888. 

In the report for 1889, a return was made to the earlier method of 
presenting a miscellaneous selection of papers (some of them original) 
embracing a considerable range of scientific investigation and discus- 
sion. This method has been continued in the present report for 1947. 
172 



LAKGE SUNSPOTS 



By Seth B, Nicholson 

Mount Wilson Observatory 

Carnegie Institution of Washington 



[With 2 plates] 



Nearly 16,000 groups of sunspots have been recorded since 1874 
when the Greenwich Observatory began to catalog the spots observed 
on daily photographs of the sun. These groups range in size from 
small clusters of tiny spots a few hundred miles in diameter to huge 
groups nearly 200,000 miles long, containing individual spots as large 
as 80,000 miles across. Many spots are seen for only a day or two 
before they disappear, some develop to moderate size, a few grow 
into groups large enough to be seen without a telescope, and a very few 
into huge groups like the one which was visible from March 30 to 
April 13, 191T. 

The area of every group is given for each day in the Greenwich 
records, the unit of area being one-millionth of a solar hemisphere, 
or 1,174,000 square miles. Of the 16,000 groups observed since 1874, 
only 27, less than one-fifth of 1 percent, attained areas as great as 
2,500 millionths of a solar hemisphere (about 3,000 million square 
miles). These 27 groups are listed in table 1, with their maximum 
areas as measured by the Greenwich Observatory or the United States 
Naval Observatory. The areas are given to only two figures because 
the irregular outline of a spot seldom permits greater accuracy. 
Measures by different observers of several of the groups listed differ 
by as much as 15 percent. Of the spots recorded before 1874, three 
at least were large enough to have been included in the table. One 
of these appeared in August 1859, at heliographic latitude 20° N. ; the 
second in July 1860, at 26° N. ; and the third in August 1860, at 24° S. 
All the groups listed in table 1 were conspicuous objects with the un- 
aided eye, if the sun was dimmed sufficiently by fog, smoke, or dark 
classes. 



1 Reprinted by permission, with revisions (as of September 1947), from Astronomical 
Society of tlie Pacific Leaflet No. 207, May 1940. 

173 



174 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947 

Table 1. — TTie largest suns-pot groups 



Date 



1892, 
1893, 
1894, 
1896, 
1897, 
1905, 
1905, 
1905, 
1907, 
1907, 
1917, 
1917, 
1920, 
1925, 



Feb. 12.. 
Aug. 7.- 
Oct. 8.-- 
Sept. 17. 
Jan. 9... 
Feb. 4... 
Mar. 8.. 
Oct. 20.. 
Feb. 12.. 
June 20.. 
Feb. 10.. 
Aug. 10. 
Mar. 22. 
Dec. 29.. 



Latitude 


Arca> 




-28 


3,000 


-18 


2.600 


-12 


2,500 


+13 


2,500 


-7 


2,700 


-15 


3,300 


+10 


2,600 


+14 


3,000 


-17 


2,600 


-14 


2,500 


-16 


3,600 


+16 


3,200 


-5 


2,700 


+23 


2,900 



Date 



1926, 
1928, 
1937, 
1937, 
1937, 
1938, 
19.38, 
1938, 
1939, 
1939, 
1946, 
1946, 
1947, 
1947, 



Jan. 24.. 
Sept. 27- 
Jan.31-- 
July29_. 
Oct. 5... 
Jan. IS.. 
July 15- . 
Oct. 12.- 
Sept. l_. 
Sept. 10. 
Feb. 5... 
July 26.. 
Mar. 10. 
Apr. 7... 



Latitude 


Area' 


o 

+21 


3,700 


-15 


2,600 


-10 


2,600 


+32 


2,800 


+9 


2,700 


+17 


3,100 


-11 


2,500 


+17 


3,000 


-15 


2,600 


-15 


2,500 


+28 


4,900 


+23 


3,950 


-23 


! 4, 300 


-24 


» 5, 400 



* Milllonths of a solar hemisphere. To express the area in million square miles increase these figures 
by one-sixth. 

' The large group in April 1947 was probably identical with the one in March, both being in the same 
region on the sun. They have been considered as one group in this article. 

The great spot group of April 1947, which was the largest ever 
recorded, developed from some small spots first seen on February 5, 
1947, at the east limb of the sun in latitude 23° S. These spots grew 
rapidly until by February 7 they formed a group large enough to be 
seen without a telescope. When, after a solar rotation, the group 
reappeared at the east limb on March 3, it had changed considerably, 
being much larger and more compact than in February. In March 
the group was composed primarily of one huge spot, which had appar- 
ently developed from the preceding (western) members of the Febru- 
ary group, the following members of which had disappeared. When 
it reappeared on March 30 for its third transit, the huge group al- 
though brealring up had increased in area. When largest it covered 
more than 1 percent of the solar disk, its area being 6,300,000,000 
square miles, 5,400-millionths of a solar hemisphere. On its fourth 
and last return the group was much smaller. The preceding part, 
which had always been the smaller, disappeared on May 7. The fol- 
lowing part passed around the west limb on May 11 and did not return. 

The large spot of March 1947 was the largest single spot on record 
with an area of 5,000,000,000 square miles, 4,300-millionths of a solar 
hemisphere. Before 1874, visual observers sometimes published the 
over-all length and breadth of a group instead of its area. From this 
data the area cannot be computed because the group may have been 
composed of several unconnected spots. A long spot group observed 
in September and October 1858 has been cited in several popular books 
on astronomy as the largest group ever recorded. H. Schwabe, a 
noted observer of sunspots, gave its east-west diameter as 321'.'3, 
which is equivalent to 143,000 miles or one-sixth of a solar diameter. 
Someone, interpreting this figure as the diameter of a huge circular 
spot, computed its area as one thirty-sixth that of the solar disk, or 
14,000-millionths of a solar hemisphere. This figure has since been 



LARGE SUNSPOTS — NICHOLSON 175 

quoted in many books as the area of the largest group on record. 
Actually that group was a long, narrow stream of spots with an area 
less than 1,000-millionths of a hemisphere. 

Plate 1 shows the great group of 1947 as it crossed the disk of the 
sun in March and April. Plate 2 shows four other large spot groups, 
all to the same scale. A spot group, composed of individual spots of 
various sizes, is usually elongated in an east-west direction. Each 
sunspot is composed of an irregular shaded area, sometimes nearly 
circular, called the penumbra, which is cooler than the sun's surface 
(the photosphere). Inside the penumbra are smaller, darker areas 
called umbrae. In large spots the umbrae cover about one-seventh of 
the area of the spot. Even the umbrae are not black but only less 
bright than the photosphere ; the contrast between the photosphere and 
the umbra of a spot is actually less than the reproductions of the photo- 
graphs would indicate. The temperature of the photosphere is about 
10,000° Fahrenheit, that of the penumbra about 9,000°, and that of the 
umbra about 7,600°. Not all umbrae have the same temperature and 
the largest are not always the darkest and coolest. The radiation from 
the umbra of a large spot is between one-fourth and one-half that from 
the photosphere, from the penumbra, between two-thirds and three- 
fourths. In the large group of 1947, the area of all the umbrae was 
about 700-millionths of a solar hemisphere, that of the penumbrae 
about 4,700. As seen projected these areas were, respectively, 0.13 and 
0.90 of 1 percent of the solar disk. The total solar radiation was there- 
fore reduced less than one-half of 1 percent by the presence of the 
large spot group, 

Ever}^ group listed in table 1 except those of October 1894 and Sep- 
tember 1928, were observed for more than one solar rotation. Groups 
which attain their maximum area while visible are generally formed 
on the invisible side of the sun, and those born on the visible side are 
generally carried out of view before their maximum area is reached. 
Only 4 of the 27 largest groups were born on the visible half of the 
sun. Two of these, February 4, 1905, and February 12, 1907, died on 
the visible hemisphere ; their ages were 91 days and 93 days, respec- 
tively. The group of February 1946 lasted more than 99 days ; how 
many more is not known because it developed and disappeared on the 
invisible hemisphere. Smaller groups have been recorded which lasted 
longer than any of these. Eleven of the twenty-seven groups in table 1 
returned only once, nine came back twice, and five returned three times. 

A sunspot is recorded to have been observed for 18 months in 1840-41. 
The original record of this group has not come to my attention, but it 
is doubtful whether a spot or a group of spots ever retained its identity 
for so long a time. Although the same region on the sun may remain 
active for many months, the continuity of activity is usually due to a 
succession of spot groups, Sunspots have a habit of reappearing in 



176 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947 

the region where an old group has been, sometimes not even waiting 
for the old group to disappear. The group of January 24, 1926, may 
have been a return of the group of December 29, 1925 ; certainly both 
were in the same region of the sun. A small round spot closely follow- 
ing the large group of January 1926 was probably identical with the 
largest spot of the December 1925 group. The large spots of the 
January group, however, behaved like new spots which had developed 
near the waning members of the December group. The two groups 
were therefore probably not actually identical. The groups of March 
and April 1947 may not be identical but their relationship seems closer 
than that between the groups of December 1925 and that of January 
1926. 

Large sunspots or, more precisely, the solar activity associated with 
them, definitely affect the earth. The obvious direct terrestrial effects 
are confined to the ionosphere, that high region of the atmosphere in 
which electric currents can flow and from which radio waves are re- 
flected. The most spectacular effects are brilliant auroras (northern 
and southern lights). Closely associated with auroras are changes in 
the electric currents in the ionosphere, which produce marked fluctua- 
tions in the earth's magnetic field (magnetic storms). These disturb- 
ances can be so violent that long-distance telegraph lines and cables 
are affected, making communications difficult or impossible. Other 
terrestrial effects are produced simultaneously with very intense solar 
"flares," phenomena which nearly always appear in or near large spot 
groups. Intense flares produce minor changes in the earth's magnetic 
field and also cause high-frequency radio waves to be absorbed so that 
long-distance short-wave communication is impossible on the daytime 
part of the earth while a flare is in progress. These effects are in all 
probability due to an increase in ultraviolet radiation from the sun at 
the time of the flare. Although the change in solar radiation due to 
the presence of a large sunspot must affect the earth's lower atmosj^here, 
and therefore the weather, buch effects are very small and are difficult 
to measure and interpret. 



Smithsonian Report. 1947. — Nicholson 



Plate 1 




i 
i 



APR, 2 


i 


APR. 3 


I 


APR, 4 


i 


A PR. 5 


A 


■ APR, 6 


A 


APR. ? 


A 


APR & 


A 



# •' J 



/■J 



APR. 13 iMKm 

The Largest Group of Sunspots Ever Photographed 

Daily photosi'tililis siiowing the great sunspot group of Klarch and April 1947, being carried across the solar 

disk by the sun's rotation. 



Smithsonian Report, 1947.— Nicholson 



PLATE 2 




'mm 



1926 JAN. 24 





1946 JULY 26 




1947 MAR. 9 



100,000 MILES 




%*■*»" 







1947 APRIL 7 .. 

THE FOUR LARGEST SUNSPOT GROUPS 

The last two photographs are of the same group showing its development during one solar rotation. 



ATOMIC ENERGY 



By A. E. Johns 
McMaster University/, Hamilton, Ontario 



INTRODUCTION 

Our topic for this evening is timely. Whether we are fully conscious 
of the fact or not and whether we like it or not, we stand at the open- 
ing of a new age — the atomic age, or the age of atomic energy. Atomic 
energy has always been present in the universe, but only now is it 
becoming available to man. The secrets of the atom are being 
unlocked before our eyes and life for mankind can never be the same. 

Your presence here in such large numbers on such a rainy night 
indicates your interest in this topic. We are all interested and want 
to know the underlying principles of atomic energy. It is my hope 
that some of these will be more clear in an hour's time. But I warn 
you that I bring little that is new. Mark Antony's words at Caesar's 
funeral sum up the situation ; "I am no orator, as Brutus is ; * * * 
I only speak right on ; I tell you that which you yourselves do know." 
The lecture will be in informal classroom style. Few teachers can 
proceed long without a blackboard ; so I have already listed the topics I 
hope to treat and for two reasons. First it will help to guide me, and 
second it will comfort you. At any stage you can see how the lecture 
is progressing, and when thoroughly bored, can say "That much at 
least is over." You note with pleasure that the introduction is already 
finished. '^ 

FOUNDATION THEORY 

During the eighteenth century man discovered that great law, the 
Law of the Conservation of Matter. According to it, no matter is 
ever created or destroyed. The total amount of matter in the uni- 
verse remains the same. True, matter may be changed in form. 
Water may be heated into steam or frozen into ice, but its mass remains 
constant. Matter may be shifted about in the universe. The moon 
may lose its atmosphere or a meteorite from the bounds of the solar 
system may fall at our feet, but the total amount of material in the 

^ Address of the retiring president, annual At-Home of the Royal Astronomical Society 
of Canada at Toronto, January 24, 1947. Reprinted by permission from the Journal of 
the Royal Astronomical Society of Canada, vol. 41, No. 3, March 1947. 

177 



178 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 194 7 

universe remains the same. In any chemical action the final products 
weigh just as much as the constituents entering it. On one scale of a 
balance put the coal you throw into your furnace, and pile on, if you 
can, all the oxygen used in combustion. On the other scale put all 
the ashes, and all the smoke and gases resulting from the fire. The 
scales balance. 

In the nineteenth century was stated another great law, the Law of 
the Conservation of Energy. No energy is ever created or destroyed. 
Its form changes, its amount is unaltered. The sun's energy in the 
form of light and heat comes racing down to us. It dries up (at 
least we hope it will tomorrow) our sodden streets. The water, lifted 
into the clouds, has the potential energy of a raised weight. The 
winds carry it over Lake Erie and it falls as rain, losing some of its 
energy in heat, but it is still higher than the Niagara Gorge. It enters 
the turbines of the Ontario Hydro Electric Commission and its re- 
maining energy is transformed into electrical energy and distributed at 
high voltage all over Ontario. It runs our streetcars and lights 
our cities. It enters our homes, runs our washing machines, our radios, 
our refrigerators. It cooks our meals, toasts our bread, and heats 
our bath water. It begins as heat, undergoes many transformations 
and ends up as heat. None is lost. 

Nothing of him that doth fade 
But doth suffer a sea-change 
Into something rich and strange 

The twentieth century saw the two laws combined. In 1905 Einstein 
propounded his theory of relativity which has revolutionized all our 
thinking in the scientific realm ever since. He claimed that these two 
conservation laws are two aspects of one more fundamental law, for 
matter and energy are just two manifestations of the same thing. 
Neither law taken alone is quite true, for matter can change into 
energy and energy into matter. Together they are absolute. "The 
total amount of matter and energy in the universe remains the same." 
He went further and wrote down from theory the equation 

connecting energy E and mass m. If m is given in grams and c is 
the velocity of light in centimeters per second, then E is given in 
ergs. Since in these units c=3 X 10^°, this equation shows that a very 
small bit of matter will yield an enormous amount of energy. One 
kilogram (2.2 pounds) of matter, whether of coal or butter, if con- 
verted entirely into energy would yield 25,000 million kilowatt hours 
of energy ; thus 

_jooo><9>ao^ 

^ 10^X3600X10« ^^^^^- 



ATOMIC ENERGY — JOHNS 179 

This is equal to the energy that would be generated by the total 
electric power industry in the United States (as of 1939) running 
for approximately 2 months. Burning this amount of coal would 
give us 8.5 kilowatt hours of heat energy, so that the ratio is about 
3,000 million to 1. No wonder the tiny losses of matter could not 
be detected, and there was no confirmation of Einstein's prediction 
for 25 years, though he had suggested that radioactive substances 
should give it. 

THEORY OF ATOMIC STRUCTURE 

If we are to understand how atomic energy is released we must 
know something of atomic structure, and form some picture or con- 
struct some model of an atom. At dinner tonight Mrs. Johns re- 
marked that the Chinese thought in pictures for theirs is a picture 
language. One woman under a roof is their ideogram for peace. 
That picture appeals to us; fundamentally we are all alike. Our 
models of the atom may not be wholly correct, but if they help our 
thinking, their creation is justified. We believe now that all atoms 
are in the main constructed out of three fundamental bricks, the 
electron, the proton, and the neutron, and from these atoms the 
whole universe is built up. The electron or Beta-particle is very light 
and exceedingly small, since 50,000 million placed side by side would 
stretch across a period at the end of a sentence on a printed page. 
It carries a unit negative charge of electricity. The proton carries 
a unit positive charge of electricity, is smaller in volume than the 
electron, but weighs 1,847 times as much. The neutron was dis- 
covered in 1932 by Chadwick in England, has a mass close to that 
of the proton and, as its name would indicate, carries no charge at 
all. This unique characteristic of neutrons delayed their discovery, 
prevents us from observing them directly, makes them very pene- 
trating and so important in nuclear change. 

From these three basic cosmic units, the 92 elements of chemis- 
try are built and range from the lightest, hydrogen, to the heaviest, 
uranium. We conceive the atom as consisting of a central nucleus 
made up of an approximately equal number of protons and neutrons ; 
and about the same number of electrons revolving as satellites around 
the nucleus. To be balanced electrically there must be just as many 
electrons carrying negative charges as protons carrying positive 
charges. This number is the atomic number of the atom. The total 
number of protons and neutrons in an atom is its atomic weight ap- 
proximately and is called its mass number. Thus the hydrogen atom 
has 1 proton as nucleus, and 1 satellite electron. So its atomic number 
is 1 and its mass number 1. The helium atom has a nucleus consisting 
of 2 protons and 2 neutrons, and 2 satellite electrons. Its atomic num- 



180 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 194 7 

ber is 2 and its mass number 4. Nature's heaviest atom has 92 protons 
and 146 neutrons for its nucleus, and 92 satellite electrons. Its atomic 
number is 92 and its mass number 238. This atom turns out to be 
the basic source of atomic energy. 

Atoms themselves are also exceedingly small, for the combined di- 
ameters of 200 million of them would be an inch long. Even at that 
they consist mostly of emptiness, for if the nucleus were enlarged 
to a baseball, the satellite electrons would be specks some 2,000 feet 
away. As we know, the solar system is also mostly empty. In round 
numbers for both the atom and the solar system the radius of the 
whole is 10,000 times the radius of the central sun. The analogy is 
striking. 

The chemical properties of any substance are determined by the 
satellite electrons. In this sense then, chemistry is concerned only 
with the superstructure of the atoms, and never comes to grips with 




HYDROGEN ATOM 



HEUtUM ATOM 
FiGUKE 1. 



URANIUM ATOM 



the nucleus. The 92 elements of chemistry have the 92 kinds of 
superstructure. Though the satellite electrons move at high speed 
their mass is negligible, so that the energy values involved are rela- 
tively small and chemical changes can yield but little energy. 

ISOTOPES 

An architect with only 92 house elevations could design many more 
than 92 interiors. Similarly nature assisted by man has designed 
upwards of 600 atoms despite the fact that only 92 exteriors seemed 
possible. This is accomplished by the addition to or subtraction from 
the nucleus of neutrons, thus changing the mass number. These new 
atoms are called isotopes of the original and are chemically indis- 
tinguishable from them. Thus heavy hydrogen has 1 proton and 1 
neutron in its nucleus and 1 satellite electron, so that it is almost 
twice as heavy as ordinary hydrogen, but has the same chemical prop- 



ATOMIC ENERGY — JOHNS 181 

erties. Heavy water is built up from heavy hydrogen and oxygen. 
It is very expensive and is used by the ton in the atomic-energy plant 
at Chalk River. Natural carbon consists of 99 percent of eC^^ and 1 
percent of 6C^^ the former having as nucleus 6 protons and 6 neutrons 
and the latter 6 protons and 7 neutrons. The respective atomic weights 
are 12 and 13. Both are carbon with atomic number 6. Uranium as 
found in nature consists of three isotopes, a trace of U-^* with 142 
neutrons, 0.7 percent of U^^^ with 143 neutrons, and 99.3 percent of 
■[J238 -^[lY^ i4g neutrons. It turns out that the valuable one for securing 
the release of atomic energy is U"®, but it is found mixed with 139 
parts of U-^^. If the proportion in nature had been reversed, the 
Germans would have won the war. 

ATOMIC ENERGY RELEASED BY NATURE 

We have seen that chemical actions, which are always concerned 
with the superstructure of the atom, yield comparatively little en- 
ergy. To secure larger amounts the nucleus of the atom must be in- 
vaded. I shall cite two illustrations of such energy release which is 
going on in nature. 

The first is radioactivity. It has been known for about 50 years 
that the element radium is continuously shooting out projectiles at 
terrific speeds. Such emanations are of three types, a-particles which 
are the nuclei of helium atoms, y8-particles or electrons, and y-rays 
which are similar to X-rays. By a series of transformations an atom 
of radium, ssRa^^^, with mass number 226 and atomic number 88 gives 
off, besides y-rays, five a-particles and four y8-particles to become an 
atom of lead, 82Pb=^°% with mass number 206 and atomic number 82. 
The mass numbers check, since each helium atom has a mass number of 
4 and 5X4=20 is the loss in mass number. The atomic numbers 
also check, since 5X2=10 units of positive charge are lost with the 
five a-particles, and four unit negative charges with the four elec- 
trons — a net loss of six units of positive charge from the nucleus. 
Radium is being transformed into lead before our eyes. In about 
1,600 years half our radium will be so transformed. In another 1,600 
years half of what remained, and so on. Hence we speak of the half- 
life of radium as 1,600 5^ears. Always some radium will remain. 

Our second illustration is of special interest to the astronomer. 
We are told that the sun in every second of time is giving out 10-° 
kilowatt hours of energy and has been doing this for some 10° or 
10^° years. Using Einstein's equation E=^mc\ we find that this is 
equivalent to the transformation of 250 million tons of matter into 
energy every minute over this tremendous span of time. Professor 



182 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 194 7 

Bethe of Cornell suggests that the source of this energy is atomic and 
gives us the following "carbon cycle" of nuclear reactions. 






eC^^+ie" 

yN^^+ie" 
6C^=^+2He^ 



In this cycle enter one isotope of oxygen, three of nitrogen, and two 
of carbon. The net result of the cycle is to leave the carbon unchanged, 
emit three y-rays and two positrons, ie° (the counterpart of the electron 
with a unit positive charge) , and convert four atoms of hydrogen into 
one atom of helium. Now the mass of four atoms of hydrogen is 4.032 
units while that of one atom of helium is 4.004. The difference of 
0.028 units, which amounts to about ^q of 1 percent of the original, has 
been transformed into energy. The late Sir James Jeans made this 
statement, "A sun in. which only y^ of 1 percent, was hydrogen could 
provide the present sun's radiation for 2,000 million years, and it is 
fairly certain that the sun contains more hydrogen than this." ^ 

ATOMIC ENERGY RELEASED BY MAN— FISSION 

For the splitting of an atom man has at his disposal some very 
high-power projectiles in the form of neutrons, deuterons, protons, 
a-particles, y-rays, and rarely heavy particles. It is difficult to hit 
the nucleus of an atom with a charged particle, since either the shelter- 
ing cloud of electrons or the repulsive force of the nucleus will turn the 
missile aside. But neutrons, having no charge, can be deflected only 
by a direct collision and so are most effective as atom smashers. 
Using neutrons, men began bombarding all the elements, and it was 
found that in general the nucleus absorbed the neutron, achieved 
stability by emitting an electron, and formed a nucleus with atomic 
number and mass number each one higher than the original. It was 
natural to investigate what would happen when uranium, the heaviest 
element, was bombarded with neutrons. Late in 1938 O. Hahn of 
Germany (who in 1945 was given the Nobel Prize), showed that the 
heavy uranium nucleus was broken and that one of the fission products 

* For details I commend to you the book "Atomic Artillery and the Atomic Bomb," written 
by my old friend and classmate. Prof. J. K. Robertson of Queen's University. I am 
indebted to him for some of these ideas and even some of the phrasing. 



ATOMIC ENERGY — JOHNS 183 

was barium. Extensive experiments in both Europe and America had 
by June 1939 confirmed this atomic fission.^ Here I only mention 
three of the many then known facts, but will amplify them later. 

(1) The products of the atomic fission were two imequal fragments 
near the middle of the table of atoms, for example, barium and krypton. 

(2) Tremendous amounts of energy were given off in the process. 

(3) From each atomic fission caused by one neutron, one to three 
neutrons arose. 

Graphically the fission may be indicated thus : 



FISSION FRAGMENT 




MEUTRONS 



FISSION FP-AGMENT 

Figure 2. 

Here then was something new under the sun. Atomic fission was 
a fact. The atom had been split. Then the black curtain of war 
descended on the world and split the scientists also into isolated groups. 

THE MASS-DEFECT CURVE— BINDING ENERGY 

Let us return for a moment to the two illustrations cited of the 
release of atomic energy in nature, namely, radioactivity and the 
carbon cycle. It seems remarkable that energy can be released either 
by the breaking down of the more complex radium atom to the less 
complex lead atom or by the building up of the more complex helium 
atom from the less complex hydrogen atom. That both processes 
yield energy is possible because of the nature of the 92 elements them- 
selves. It is a fact that the mass per particle (neutron or proton) in 
the nucleus is greater for either the very light or the very heavy ele- 
ments than it is for the elements midway between. Hence when hydro- 
gen is transformed to helium or uranium to barium, mass is lost, and 



' For details I commend to your study Smyth's book, "Atomic Energy for Military 
Purposes." 



777488—48 13 



184 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947 

it appears as energy released. A graphic picture of what happens 
may be made thus : 




Figure 3. 

The mass lost in the change from uranium to barium represented by 
PQ is 100 times the mass lost in the change from hydrogen to helium 
represented by RS. 

The same facts may be stated in terms of energy. The "binding 
energy" of a nucleus is defined to be the difference between the sum of 
the masses of all the protons and neutrons which went into its compo- 
sition and the true nuclear mass. Thus the elements in the middle of 
the periodic table have the greatest binding energy or are most 
strongly bound. To break them up energy would have to be supplied ; 
but when atoms of elements near either end of the table are transformed 
energy is released. 

A CHAIN REACTION 

Ordinary combustion is an illustration of a chain reaction. We 
light a match. It sets fire to some paper. This ignites the kindling 
next it. This in turn, we hope, will ignite the coal. It is self- 
sustaining. The fact that more than one neutron came out as a fission 
product, when only one caused the fission of U^^^, suggested the possibil- 
ity of a chain reaction, but no one knew whether or not it would work. 
If from 1 neutron came 3, from 3, 9, from 9, 27, the reaction would 
expand at a terrific rate. But it should be remembered that it is the 
rare isotope U^^* which is broken by the neutron, and this occurs in 
nature mixed with 139 times as much U^^. So at least four things could 
happen to the emitted neutrons. They might (1) escape, (2) be 



ATOMIC ENERGY — JOHNS 185 

captured by U^^ without fission, (3) be absorbed by impurities, (4) 
cause fission of another U^® nucleus. To get a chain reaction the 
number of neutrons in (4) decreased by the sum of those in (1), (2), 
and (3) must at least equal the original number put in. The first 
three possibilities must then be reduced to a minimum. The first loss 
was easily handled by making the pile of uranium being treated large 
enough. When the edge of a cube is tripled in length, the surface is 
increased ninefold, but the volume is increased twenty-sevenfold. So 
the chance of escape through the surface per unit volume is much less 
than it was before. From theoretical considerations Fermi calculated 
how large, under attainable conditions, the pile should be and it 
worked — a marvelous achievement. Losses (2) and (3) were much 
more difficult to reduce to a minimum. Only the tremendous resources 
of the United States could make possible their solution, and a billion- 
dollar plant was built at Oak Ridge, Tenn. Since U^^^ and U^^^ are 
chemically indistinguishable they must be separated by physical means 
from the fact that U^^ is the slightly heavier of the two. Thermal 
diffusion would separate the lighter fluid, U^^, just as our mothers got 
the lighter Devonshire cream on a pan of milk. Gaseous diffusion 
through barriers allowed the lighter IJ-^^ gas to pass more readily'. 
The cream-separator trick of the centrifuge brought the lighter IJ-^^ 
to the center and a huge electromagnet could deflect lighter ions more 
than the heavier ones. Since some substances, for example cadmium, 
soak up neutrons like a sponge, the problem of obtaining pure ma- 
terials was also a formidable one. However, these difficulties were 
sufficiently overcome and a pile was built in the squash court in Stagg 
Field at the University of Chicago. Cadmium rods were inserted as 
safety devices and on December 2, 1942, the first self-maintaining 
nuclear chain reaction was initiated by man, even with the cadmium 
rods only partly withdrawn. For the well-being of Chicago the pile 
was torn down and moved to the Argonne Woods, some 40 miles 
outside Chicago. It should be noted that there are always enough 
stray neutrons about to start the chain reaction, so that no "match" 
is required. 

MODERATORS 

It was early suggested by Fermi, Compton, and others that slow 
neutrons, that is thermal or low-energy neutrons, could be used to 
split U-^5 and that such might not be absorbed by U^^. Since the 
neutrons coming out of the fission are always moving at high speed, a 
search was begun for so-called moderators which would slow up such 
neutrons before they were absorbed by U^^. If such could be found, 
the separation of U"' from U^* might not be necessary. Now fast 
neutrons are hard to stop, for they can pierce several inches of steel 



186 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 194 7 

and about 3 feet of concrete, and yet the only way to stop them is to put 
something in their way. A tennis ball rebounds from the hard court 
with its velocity only slightly lessened, but if it collides head on with 
another tennis ball, its energy is passed on to the other and it stops 
dead. At each collision with a ball heavier than itself part of its 
energy would be given up. So moderators must have nuclei with 
masses comparable to the mass of the neutron, if the neutron is to be 
slowed up at each collision. Also to be useful it must itself not absorb 
neutrons. The substances with both these characteristics turned out 
to be carbon and heavy water, and both had to be of high purity. In 
the first pile at Chicago carbon was used, while at Chalk River heavy 
water is the moderator. This heavy water was made at Trail, British 
Columbia, tested at McMaster University, and used at Chalk River. 

MAN-MADE ELEMENTS 

When a slow neutron is absorbed by a nucleus of U^^, a nucleus of an 
unstable isotope, U^^®, is formed. Its half -life is only 23 minutes and 
from its disintegration a new element, neptunium, with atomic number 
93 and mass number 239 is formed. This new element also is unstable 
with a half-life of 2,3 days and disintegrates to form a second new 
element, plutonium, with atomic nimaber 94 and mass number 239. 
The reactions are 

92U^« + on^ > 92U^^+T 

slow 

23 minutes 

93N/3« , 94Pu^«+_ieO-f7 

2.3 days 

This isotope 94Pu^^^ of plutonium does slowly decay by the emission 
of an a-particle to 92^^^^, but its half -life is 24,000 years, so that it is 
really very stable. Recently the discovery of two more man-made 
elements has been announced. Since the astronomers in their search 
of planets beyond Pluto have not kept pace with the discovery of 
elements beyond plutonium, it is proposed to call these two elements 
americium and curium respectively, in honor of the Americas and of 
Pierre and Marie Curie. 

Plutonium has qualities which make it so tremendously impor- 
tant that it is largely replacing U^^^ in both military and peacetime 
applications. Though usually stable, it is fissionable by slow 
neutrons just as U^^^. It is potentially more abundant since it is 
created from the much more plentiful U^^^. It is a different element 
from uranium and hence can be separated from it by chemical 
means. So the atomic-energy plant using uranium is allowed to 



ATOMIC ENERGY — JOHNS 187 

run several months, after which the uranium rods are removed and 
the pkitonium created in them is separated out. It is like hunting 
a needle in a haystack, for 50 kilograms of uranium may have 10 
grams of plutonium in it. 

FISSION PRODUCTS 

I have already remarked that the kinds of atoms now discovered 
number upwards of 600, and of these a very large number, well over 
200, have arisen as fission products by neutron bombardment of 
uranium. These fission products range all the way from zinc to sama- 
rium. Strangely enough they break into two groups. The light group 
consists of those from zinc with mass number about 72 to palladium 
with mass number about 108, and shows the greatest concentration 
around krypton with mass number 94. The heavy group goes from 
palladium to samarium with mass number 150 and shows the greatest 
concentration around barium with mass number 140. Actually about 
6 percent is krypton and 6 percent barium, with 97 percent of all fission 
products grouped closely around these. The minimum is around tin 
with mass number 117 and the yield there is about 0.01 percent of the 
whole. 

For the lighter elements in the periodic table the number of neu- 
trons in the nucleus is about equal to the number of protons. For in- 
stance carbon has 6 of each. But as we ascend in the table the propor- 
tion of neutrons to protons gradually increases until in uranium 238 
there are 146 neutrons to 92 protons. So the fission products from 
uranium, which are near the middle of the table, are overloaded with 
neutrons and are likely to be unstable and give off beta-rays in succes- 
sion imtil a stable product is formed. There are 64 such mass chains of 
transformations now known, 31 in the light group and 33 in the heavy, 
and they involve about 164 known active products, and about 64 stable 
ones. McMaster University, under Dr. Thode's direction, is given 
credit for the discovery of eight of the stable products, and one active 
one, namely, Kr^^ with a half-life of 10 years. 

The problems presented to the chemist by these fission products 
were appalling. He had to separate the minute quantities of these 
bewildering products from the original uranium and the neptunium 
and plutonium created there as well. He had to determine what ele- 
ments were there and what isotope. If the product was radioactive, 
what was its half -life ; was it formed directly or was it part of a chain ; 
and if of a chain, how was it related to other fission products? What 
energy had the ^- and y-rays emitted? These and many other ques- 
tions confronted the chemist, and he had to work with exceedingly 
minute quantities and he had to work fast. Any product with half- 
life of less than 2 seconds cannot yet be identified. One instrument. 



188 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947 

the mass spectrometer, has been his powerful ally. By it he "scans" 
the fission products and obtains results of surprising accuracy. 

INDUSTRIAL APPLICATIONS OF ATOMIC ENERGY 

The energy released in atomic fission is tremendous. From the 
smashing of a single uranium nucleus come some 160 million elec- 
tron volts. (An electron volt is the energy acquired by an electron in 
moving through a potential difference of 1 volt.) Chemical action 
might yield 2 or 3 electron volts. The fission of 1 pound of IJ-^^ would 
yield 11,400,000 kilowatt hours of energy. 

Is it any wonder then that an atomic bomb can do such terrible dam- 
age ? At 8.17 a. m. on August 5, 1945, there was a blinding flash in 
Hiroshima — a piece of the sun instantaneously created. All buildings 
within a radius of 2 miles were completely destroyed, roofs were off at 
5 miles, and glass broken 12 miles away ; 95,000 people were killed or 
missing, and 140,000 more injured. Of 600 girls from a Protestant 
girls' school who were scattered over the city, 30 to 40 later returned. 
The falling roof pinned 50 of those at school under it and they were 
burned before the eyes of their principal. Such a bomb dropped on 
the campus of the University of Toronto would wipe out everything 
from St. Clair to the Lake, and from the Don halfway to High Park, 
and glass would be broken in Port Credit. In a twinkling one-quarter 
of the population of Greater Toronto would be killed or injured. And 
now they can make bombs 1,000 times as powerful as that. 

But atomic energy could be and we trust will be a marvelous bless- 
ing. Already estimates would indicate that atomic-energy plants can 
deliver energy at 0.8 cents per kilowatt hour. (We pay 0.7 cents for 
domestic use in Hamilton.) We cannot expect it to power our auto- 
mobiles. The critical size of a pile to get any power at all, and the tons 
of steel and concrete necessary to protect us from those penetrating 
radiations, prevent us from just putting a gram of plutonium in our 
car and running it for a lifetime. But such a pile could power an At- 
lantic liner, and it could provide power in parts of the world where 
there is neither coal nor hydro. 

Recently at McMaster I heard a fine address on Canadian Popula- 
tion Trends by an authority. In all his prognosis the speaker was 
careful to put in a qualifying "all conditions being the same." I re- 
called a jocular remark made in an after-dinner speech by my old 
professor, the late Alfred Baker. "It is customary for great men 
at some time in their lives to make a prophecy. I will make mine now. 
I predict that in 500 years the center of civilization will be in the Sas- 
katchewan Valley." So in the question period I asked the speaker if 
that were possible. He did not think so. Industrial concentration 
was unlikely in a land where there was no iron and only poor-grade 



ATOMIC ENERGY — JOHNS 189 

coal. Dr. Tliode then rose to say that conditions were not the same. 
The atomic age had arrived. Power plants can as well be built in 
Saskatchewan as in Hamilton. Who can predict the industrial future 
of our Canadian West in this new age? 

ATOMIC ENERGY IN MEDICINE 

It was recognized at once that the wealth of radioactive fission 
products made available in quantity by atomic-energy plants had 
opened up great new possibilities in medicine. The half-life of 
some of these is long enough to make them useful. Phosphorus, 
P ^^, has a half-life of 14.3 days. Iodine, I ^^^, has a half-life of 8 days. 
Treatment by radium may be completely superseded by the use of 
such new products as these. 

They can be used as tracers. Radioactive sodium, Na"*, injected 
into the blood stream in one hand reaches the other hand in 20 seconds. 
If taken internally it reaches the finger tips in 2 or 3 minutes. Radio- 
active carbon, C ^*, may help us to understand the whole process of 
metabolism. Some scientists claim that its production may well be 
worth all the money spent on atomic fission. Its half-life is about 
10,000 years. 

Iodine, I ^^^, if taken into the human system heads for the thyroid 
gland, as does ordinary iodine. Can cancer of the thyroid be cured 
by letting iodine, I ^'% seek out its prey ? Radioactive phosphorus, 
P^2, concentrates in the spleen and liver, so that large doses can be 
given these organs. Already this isotope has given spectacular re- 
sults in the treatment of polythemia vera, a sort of cancer of the red 
corpuscles. But here, as always, must follow an immense amount 
of investigation of just how each fission product acts on human tissue, 
what human enemy does it attack, and what is the proper dose that 
will kill this enemy and not unduly injure healthy tissue. We are 
just entering the Promised Land — the Atomic Energy Age. 

CHALK RIVER 

I had hoped to speak briefly on our Canadian atomic-energy plant 
at Chalk River, which I visited last summer. However, this lecture 
is already too long so that my remarks on this topic must be very 
sketchy. 

This site, halfway between North Bay and Ottawa, on the Ottawa 
River, was chosen because it had three main qualifications. It had 
an ample supply of pure water, it was accessible for bringing in 
heavy machinery, and it was not near large centers of population in 
case of accident. In less than 3 years huge buildings have been 
erected and these are carefully guarded. In order to gain entrance, 



190 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947 

one has to lay plans some weeks in advance, be finger-printed, have 
his past history checked, and declare that he will not sell out to the 
enemy. Inside is the sign, "What you see here, what you hear here, 
stays here when you leave here." In some respects it is almost like 
a university, for there were lectures almost daily, as each department 
tried to keep the others informed of its latest discovery. Everywhere 
the greatest precautions are taken for safeguarding the health of the 
workers and visitors. In certam buildings cloth shoes and coats are 
provided, to insure that we did not inadvertantly pick up some radio- 
active particle, which might cause a burn. The chemists watched their 
experiments through periscopes. No work is being done on atomic 
bombs, but important investigations in industrial and medical ap- 
plications of atomic energy are under way. I found it a stimulating, 
almost an exciting place, to visit. 

The workers at the Chalk River plant are housed in a town site, 
Deep River, 12 miles by bus up the Ottawa River. This, too, had 
a guardhouse at its entrance. Three years ago the site was just sand 
with a light stand of evergreen and birch. Bulldozers ripped out 
the streets, sidewalks went down, some 400 houses went up, and now 
behold a town of some 2,000 people. A staff house shelters and feeds 
about 200 workers and guests. There is a general store, a five-room 
public school, a hospital with plenty of maternity cases, a recreation 
center, and a church being organized. Some 20 clubs, camera, chess, 
skiing, etc., flourish. It is a young people's town. The number of 
academic degrees held by its inhabitants per capita is probably the 
highest in Canada. 

CONCLUSION 

I conclude with the following quotation from the Presidential 
Address to the British Association delivered in 1934 by the late Sir 
James Jeans : 

Science has given man control over nature before he has gained control over 
himself. The tragedy does not lie in man having so much scientific control over 
nature, but in his having so little control over himself. Human nature changes 
very slowly and so forever lags behind human knowledge which accumulates 
very rapidly. Scientific knowledge is transmitted from one generation to 
another while acquired characteristics are not. Thus in respect of knowledge 
each generation stands on the shoulders of its predecessor but in respect of 
human nature both stand on the same ground. 



TELEGKAPHY— PONY EXPRESS TO BEAM RADIO ^ 



By Geoege C. Hillis 

General Inspector, Western Union Telegraph Co. 
New York, N. T. 



[With 3 plates] 



Inasmuch as the Western Society of Engineers is composed of many 
branches of the engineering profession who may not be familiar with 
terms used in the communications field, I shall endeavor to review 
the progress of written communications from the early Morse days to 
the recently developed microwave radio beam in what our transmis- 
sion research engineer, F. B. Bramhall, likes to call "basic barnyard 
English.-' 

To many people, a telegram calls to mind a mental picture of a 
Western Union messenger boy pedaling his bicycle down the street, 
or of a Morse operator copying a message by listening to the dots and 
dashes of a sounder. New and improved methods of operation have 
made strides to change this mental picture of telegraphy. 

The telegraph was invented in 1832 and mechanically perfected 
in 1837 by Samuel F. B. Morse. The first practical telegraph instru- 
ment, as he termed it, was exhibited in his rooms at New York Uni- 
versity. His receiver consisted of a magnetically operated pendulum 
mounted on a picture frame, marking on a moving paper tape. It was 
not until 184^ that the first public telegraph message "What hath God 
wrought?" was sent by Morse over the first line from Washington, 
D. C., to Baltimore. 

The marked paper tape had to be deciphered by the receiving opera- 
tor and the message written on a blank. The speed of operation de- 
pended on the ability of the sending operator and the receiving equip- 
ment and was probably less than 10 words a minute. 

It took but a short time before the receiving operator found ho 
could read the dots and dashes without having to look at the tape — 
translating the sound was much easier. Improvement in apparatus 
allowed the operator to send about 11 clots per second with a semi- 
automatic sending machine termed a "bug." Exceptionally good 
sending and receiving operators could handle an average of 100 short 
messan^es an hour. 



1 Hepi-iutod by permission from the Journal of the Western Society of Engineers, vol. 51, 
No. 3, pt, 1, September 1946. 

191 



192 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 194 7 

Duplex telegraphy was invented by the president of the Franklin 
Telegraph Co. in 1872. This allowed simultaneous sending and re- 
ceiving at each end of the circuit, doubling the circuit capacity. The 
Western Union purchased this patent, then made arrangements with 
Thomas A. Edison to see if any latent possibilities could be developed. 

After considerable experimenting, Mr. Edison invented the Quad- 
ruplex. This method allowed two simultaneous sendings in each 
direction. The single circuit capacity had now been increased four- 
fold. 

The Wheatstone siphon recorder, an English invention, was brought 
to this country in 1883 and was used extensively on the earlier cable 
circuits. It was soon replaced on land lines by a faster type Wheat- 
stone recorder. An inked wheel marked the dots and dashes upon a 
rapidly moving strip of paper. Signals from both of these systems 
were transmitted from perforated tape. The recorder could handle 
about 90 words per minute, but it was necessary to translate the tape 
and write the message on a blank. 

During the period 1901 to 1910, many printing telegraph systems 
were developed. The better known were the House system which 
printed on a strip of paper and the Buckingham system which printed 
directly on a message blank. 

The Barclay system was developed from Buckingham patents about 
1904-05 and was the first printer to stand up under heavy traffic. It 
would handle about 50 words per minute but required frequent and 
careful adjustment of the selecting mechanism. It was soon re- 
placed by the Morkrum-Kleinschmidt printer, an invention of Howard 
Krum of Chicago. 

About 1912 the Western Union-developed page printer had been 
installed on the heavier circuits between New York and San Fran- 
cisco. The first printer had a stationary carriage and movable type 
wheel. Later on, a type bar printer was developed which used the 
Baudot code system and is now being used in conjunction with the 
Multiplex. The present 21-A tape printer will handle 72 words per 
minute with average maintenance whereas the earlier printers re- 
quired continual adjusting. 

It was soon found that the line- wire circuit was capable of carrying 
signals much faster than a single operator could send them or faster 
than a single receiving printer could print them, clear the selecting 
mechanism and be ready for a second incoming signal. In order to 
make full use of the circuit, it was necessary to develop a method which 
could handle signal impulses to the full capacity of the circuit. This 
system is known as the Multiplex and is used throughout our system 
to handle the major portion of trunk-line traffic. 

The Multiplex divides the use of the circuit among a number of 
channels. The sending distributor picks up signals from the trans- 



TELEGRAPHY — HILLIS 193 

mitting units of the different channels and turns them to the line 
in proper sequence. At the distant terminal they are picked up by 
a receiving distributor and turned to the corresponding printers. In 
order for the transmitter on chamiel 1 to send to the distant printer 
on channel 1, it is necessary to synchronize the sending and receiv- 
ing distributors and drive them at closely regulated speeds by syn- 
chronous motors. 

Alternating current for the motors is supplied by accurately regu- 
lated tuning forks. After the receiving distributor is brought in 
phase, an accurate phase-correction circuit is applied which will hold 
the receiving distributor in step with the distant sending distributor. 
It is not necessary to transmit a special phasing pulse as the phase-cor- 
rection circuit operates from line intelligence signals. Experiments 
have been made in driving the sending and receiving distributors from 
a common frequency source and using no correction at the receiving 
end. Long distances between terminals has prevented the adoption of 
this method of maintaining synchronism because of the lack of a 
common power source. 

The Multiplex is operated duplex, as 2, 3, or 4 channels, depending 
upon traffic load and circuit conditions. A standard operating speed 
of 66 words per minute has been adopted in order to facilitate the 
patching of channels between Multiplex systems. 

A 4-channel system, duplexed, working at 66 words per minute, with 
4 sendings at each terminal, will provide a total message capacity of 
528 words per minute. This is a considerable increase from 10 words 
per minute of the original recorder used on the Baltimore-Washing- 
ton circuit. 

The Teleprinter has ahnost entirely replaced the Morse method as a 
means of operating lightly loaded circuits. Most of you are familiar 
with this machine which sends from a slightly modified typewriter 
keyboard and receives on either tape or page copy. The sending 
and receiving units may be operated independently or in series. 

The Teleprinter uses the 5-unit code of the Multiplex with the 
addition of a phasing and stop pulse. The phasing pulse is necessary 
to start the receiving distributor with the transmitting cam and the 
stop pulse stops both the receiving and sending units so they will both 
start in phase for the next signal. 

Supplementing the Multiplex and Teleprinter, we have the Vario- 
plex, Telefax, and Photofax. The Varioplex uses the high capacity 
of the Multiplex system and by means of a control rack, a number 
of reperforator racks, as many as 36 Teleprinter subchannels may be 
operated over a single wire. 

Telefax and Photofax are Western Union developments of the prin- 
ciples of facsimile. Telefax utilizes the pick-up of a reflected light 
beam through a photoelectric cell which translates changes of light 



194 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947 

intensity to corresponding changes of electrical intensity as the scan- 
ning beam passes over the copy being transmitted. At the receiving 
end, the intelligence may be reconverted to changes of light intensity 
and recorded on a photographic film as a negative. After developing, 
a print from the film negative will give a positive of the original 
material from which transmission was made. 

The received changes of electrical intensity may be inverted from a 
negative image to a positive image and recorded by a stylus on dry 
Teledeltos paper. This gives an immediate positive of the original 
photograph, message, drawing or other transmitted material without 
any further processing. Good photograph halftones may be made 
from this copy. Development of this equipment was halted by the 
war but our laboratories have resumed research in this method of 
communication. 

Telefax installations in China have greatly speeded up communi- 
cations in that country. Prior to Telefax, it was necessary to assign 
a number to each Chinese character in order to transmit a message 
by regular telegraph. This required that a message be coded in num- 
bers, transmitted by standard telegraph, deciphered, and written on 
a blank. Transmission by Telefax gives an immediate reproduction 
of the original message with no chances for errors. The entire con- 
tents of a standard telegraph blank may be transmitted in a little 
over 2 minutes. 

Outside of the commercial telegraph field, one use for this system 
has been in the handling of railroad train orders where accuracy in 
transmission is absolutely essential. 

The transmission of intelligence from the various types of terminal 
equipment over open wire land lines has proved to be one of our great- 
est difficulties in the maintenance of uninterrupted service. The phys- 
ical hazards of sleet, ice, fires, floods, railroad and vehicular wrecks, 
and tornadoes have caused our Dispatching Bureau many hours of 
"blood, sweat, and tears." Poor and corroded wire splices, kite tails 
that get tangled in the line, the boy (and, I might add, the man) with a 
22 rifle, who finds insulators a tempting target, all add up to the inces- 
sant patrols by our linemen. 

Interference caused by inductive coupling to power lines, lighting, 
and the interference induced by adjacent telegraph circuits have lim- 
ited the distance over which transmission may be satisfactory without 
repeaters. Wlien the signals become too badly mutilated, they may 
be rebuilt by regenerative repeaters, but this equipment is expensive 
and requires expert maintenance and adjustment. 

In a grounded telegraph system such as we use extensively, a bat- 
tery is applied to one end of the wire and the opposite end grounded, 
thus completing the circuit through the ground back to the battery. 



TELEGRAPHY — HILLIS 195 

Any disturbance to the earth potential will seriously affect operation 
over this type of circuit. On the morning of March 23-24, 1940, 
approximately 800 volts difference in earth potential was observed 
between New York City and Binghaniton, N. Y. This means that 
with one of the wires grounded at Binghaniton, the New York test- 
board attendant would see on his voltmeter connected to the New 
York end of the wire, not the Binghamton ground but anywhere 
from to 800 volts of battery and varying from positive to negative. 
At times the maximum potential would hold steady for 30 seconds 
or more, decrease in intensity, then suddenly reverse potential and 
increase in intensity until approximately 800 volts of the opposite 
potential was reached. Under these conditions, telegraph signals of 
160- or 240-volt potential were entirely obliterated. 

Trouble is also experienced during very wet weather when a thin 
film of water on the glass insulators acts as a high resistance conductor 
and allows a small portion of tlie transmitted battery to leak off to 
ground at each telegraph pole and return to the transmitting station. 
Although this is a very small amount at each pole, when you have 
a 200-mile circuit with 40 poles per mile, 8,000 such leaks do not allow 
much of the transmitted signal to get through to the distant end. 

When a second wire is substituted for the ground return, many of 
the above troubles are eliminated. This type of operation requires 
twice the wire facilities for the same number of circuits. One type 
of metallic system used by the telegraph company provides three 
excellent circuits from four wires. 

In order to provide a more stable means of transmitting intelligence 
between terminals which would not be affected by the inherent hazards 
of grounded operation and provide a number of circuits over a pair of 
wires, the Western Union began experimenting with carrier operation 
in 1927. 

The first 4-wire, amplitude-modulated carrier system was placed 
in service between New York City and Buffalo. Wliile this system 
was a great improvement over physically grounded operation, it needed 
many improvements. 

The B-3 system was placed in operation a short time later between 
New York and Chicago. This was a 4-wire, amplitude-modulated 
system originally designed for 20 operating channels. Channel fre- 
quencies ran from 450 cycles to 6,450 cycles with a 300-cycle channel 
width. Carrier current for the individual channels was provided 
by a Hammond generator, an adaption of the same machine that 
supplies the basic tones for a Hammond electric organ. 

The addition of an automatic bias corrector to the channel terminals 
to compensate for changes in the received level, made these circuits 
far better than any ground return circuits for the operation of high- 



196 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947 

speed Multiplex circuits where the line frequency reaches 66 cycles per 
second on certain letter combinations. 

The amplitude-modulated system still had difficulties inherent in 
this type of operation. Any variation in the received signal strength 
had to be compensated for by similar changes in the relay bias circuit. 
Your amplitude-modulated radio suffers from the same types of 
interference. 

Continual research by our Carrier System Development Group pro- 
duced the first frequency-modulated terminal in 1937. A series of 
imrovements led to the installation of the first type "E" carrier system 
between Dallas and Los Angeles in the fall of 1942. This was a two- 
wire system, using frequency-modulated terminals and provided one 
voice channel in each direction of transmission. The frequencies of 
the nine telegraph channels in the west-bound voice band range from 
750 cycles to 3,150 cycles and the east-bound band from 4,050 cycles to 
6,450 cycles. 

The frequency-modulated telegraph channel will continue to deliver 
a perfect signal even though the input power to the receiving channel 
amplifier may drop to one three-hundredths of the standard value. 
The FM telegraph channels have contiuued to work without inter- 
ruption when the physical wires over which they were working were 
so badly weather-bound by heavy fog that Morse signals could not be 
read between Chicago and Indianapolis. This system has also con- 
tinued to work when one wire of the pair was broken and both ends lay 
on the ground. 

The type "F" is also a two-wire system which provides two voice 
bands in each direction with a top f reqency of 16 kilocycles. The two- 
wire type "G" system provides four voice bands in each direction with 
the top frequency of 30 kilocycles. 

Nine wide-band FM channels may be placed on one voice band. 
These channels will carry signaling frequencies up to about 75 cycles 
per second. Sixteen narrow-band FM telegraph channels may also be 
placed on a voice band. The narrow-band channel is designed for a 
top frequency of about 33 cycles per second and will be largely used 
for Teleprinter operation. 

Even with all the margin provided by FM operation, interruptions 
to the service were caused by weather conditions over which we had 
no control. Early in the spring of 1946, ice formed on the wires in the 
vicinity of Sidney, Nebr., until they became 3 inches in diameter. 
The weight of this much ice will break the wires in many places and 
if there is a slight wind, the ice-covered wires will start to swing and 
break off many poles, sometimes every pole between sections that are 
not extra-heavily braced. 

Terminal equipment appeared satisfactory, but trouble-free trans- 
mission was required between terminals in order to render the best 



TELEGRAPHY — HILLIS 197 

possible telegraph service. Coaxial cable will provide this type of 
service where large numbers of circuits are required, but the cost is 
high and where high frequencies are used, repeaters are required at 
frequent intervals. 

The Western Union electronic laboratory at Water Mill, Long 
Island, has continuously investigated the possibility of radio as a 
medium of transmission. Up to 1940, the use of radio was not advis- 
able, for the frequencies used at the time did not provide the continuous 
24:-hour service the year around that is required for dependable 
telegraph circuit stability. 

The concentrated development in the ultra-short-wave spectrum for 
radar techniques during the war disclosed that when the superhigh 
frequencies were propagated under line-of-sight conditions, they ap- 
peared to be quite stable. They were not affected by magnetic storms 
or lightning discharges so it was apparent that this method of trans- 
mission might be the solution to our problems. 

Before the war, equipment was not available to construct oscillators 
which would generate frequencies much above 400 megacycles. Os- 
cillator tank circuits were reduced in size until the capacity between 
elements in the vacuum tube was used as tank capacity and a single 
turn of wire for the tank inductance. The answer to generating still 
higher frequencies was found in a new type of tube which utilizes the 
speed of electron travel. Two types of tubes of this classification were 
used during the war for radar work. They are the Magnetron and 
Klystron. The Magnetron was developed by Dr. Hull in the General 
Electric laboratories and was improved on from time to time. Rus- 
sian scientists added a bit, but it was not until about 1940 that English 
scientists made further improvements which enabled them to use the 
tube for high-frequency generation. The Klystron tube was in- 
vented by the Varian brothers at Stanford University. Either of 
these tubes is capable of generating frequencies up to 30,000 mega- 
cycles. 

It has been found that at these high frequencies, where the wave 
lengths become several centimeters or less, they may be controlled in 
much the same manner as light. There is still a long way to go before 
the wave length of visible light is reached. At a frequency of 4,000 
megacycles, the wave length is 7.5 centimeters or 3 inches, while in- 
visible infrared rays have a wave length of about 0.01 centimeter in 
length and the wave lengths of visible light rays range from 0.00007 
to 0.00004 centimeter in length. 

A parabolic reflector, such as is used to concentrate the small candle- 
power of a tiny incandescent lamp in an automobile headlight, may 
also be used to concentrate the radiation of the microwaves. It is not 
practical in standard broadcast wave lengths, for in order to concen- 



198 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947 




TELEGRAPHY — HILLIS 199 

trate the broadcast frequencies of 720 kilocycles into a beam 6° in 
width, it would take a parabolic reflector approximately 13,000 feet 
in diameter. Now to concentrate the radiation of 4,000 megacycles 
into the same field pattern, we would need a reflector only 30 inches in 
diameter. 

With such a reflector, instead of letting the radio waves go off into 
free space in all directions, we are able to concentrate them into a beam 
only 6° in width, the angle being inversely proportional to the dia- 
meter of the reflector. This results in a very small field of intense 
radio energy at the point at which the beam is aimed. In fact, the 
reflector increases the energy 30 decibels, which is a gain in power 
of 1,000 to 1. For example, a nondirective antenna might require 1,000 
watts to give the required field strength at a given point. With the 
parabolic reflector, only 1 watt of power would be required. If the 
receiving antenna is surrounded by an identical reflector, the receiver 
will pick up 1,000 times as much power as it would if the antenna was 
out in free space. 

The net practical result is that radio repeater stations may be spaced 
about 50 miles apart and we will require only one-tenth of 1 watt of 
radiated power to give dependable 24-hour service, where before we 
would require 90 to 100 kilowatts. 

The ability to concentrate the microwaves in a small space makes 
it possible to use the same frequency for sending or receiving from as 
many as eight positions at one location, or one for every 45° of the 
compass. 

All radio waves are propagated in straight lines, microwaves in- 
cluded. The difference between the longer standard broadcast waves 
and microwaves is that when the low-frequency waves enter the ionized 
layers of the upper atmosphere, this refractive mediimi causes them 
to be bent and some will return to the earth. Here they are reflected 
upward from the ground and again refracted to appear a second time 
on the earth. If the sending-signal strength is great enough and the 
signals enter the upper atmosphere at the correct angle, they may be 
reflected back and forth and eventually go around the earth. 

The height of the ionized layer that causes the low -frequency waves 
to be bent back to the earth varies continuously. The F-layer ioniza- 
tion decreases after sunset and reaches a minimum just before sunrise. 
After sunrise it splits into two distinct layers of ionization, which 
are termed F-1 and F-2. These layers remain separate during the day 
but merge into one at sunset. The average height of the F layer is 
about 185 miles, the F-1, 140-160 miles, and the F-2 150-250 miles. 
A long-wave-length signal entering these ionized regions at a con- 
stant angle will not always return to the earth at the same place as 
the skip distance varies as the height of the ionized layers change dur- 

777488 — 48 14 



200 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947 

ing the day. The skip distance not only depends upon the time of day, 
but the phase of the sunspot cycle, the geographical location of the 
transmission path, and the season of the year. Maintaining communi- 
cations by use of this medium could not be considered reliable enough 
for the telegraph company's use. 

When the microwaves enter this ionized region of the upper atmos- 
phere they pass through it, regardless of the angle at which they enter. 
This makes it necessary to transmit them parallel to the surface of 
the earth, catch them before they leave the earth at the horizon and 
retransmit them to the next tower. While the retransmission from 
tower to tower is more expensive than a standard broadcast which 
uses the ionization refraction for retransmission, it gives us a 24:-hour- 
a-day service that the longer-wave-length frequencies can never equal 
in dependability. 

During March 1946 there were a number of magnetic storms, some 
of such severity as to blank out commercial radio, halting trans- Atlan- 
tic air travel, while the microwave beam circuit showed no interfer- 
ence from the aurora borealis. 

At this high frequency we are not bothered by any man-made or 
nature-made static; it is even above that of a lightning discharge. 

Tests were made by having an airplane fly directly in the path of 
the beam. No serious deflections of the received power level were 
noted until the plane was about 50 feet from the reflector. 

Several difficulties were encountered in developing the transmission 
of the microwaves when the beam was transmitted parallel to the sur- 
face of the earth. One is the absorption of energy by water vapor in 
the air, but this is not serious for wave lengths greater than 5 centime- 
ters. For the shorter wave lengths, such as at 1 centimeter, a heavy 
rainfall will drop the receiving power level 5 decibels, which would 
not be noticed in FM reception, but a cloudburst along a 1-mile path 
of the beam will drop the received level to one-thousandth of the 
normal value. 

A slow signal fading was noted throughout the year, but in the FM 
receiver this change caused no harm. 

A more serious type of fading was noted in the latter part of June 
1945, when in the early morning hours of a still night, especially dur- 
ing periods when the humidity was high, the received signal strength 
would fluctuate wildly. The transmitting power was increased but 
the results were still unsatisfactory. An investigation of the field 
strength at the receiving tower disclosed that the line-of -sight signal 
was being canceled by an out-of -phase signal. By placing a second 
receiving reflector between 25 and 27 feet below the upper one and 
using the combined output from the two reflectors, a fairly steady 
signal could be obtained as the fading did not appear simultaneously 



TELEGRAPHY — HILLIS 201 

at both reflectors. The resultant signal variation is well within the 
limits of the FM receiver and excellent results have been obtained. 

The present explanation is that during periods of perfect calni 
there is a stratification of either temperature or humidity or both 
which will refract the transmitting signal causing a multipath re- 
ception at the receiving parabola. 

Studies indicate that the initial installation cost and annual ex- 
pense of operation of a microwave relay system will be less than that 
of a land line, especially if the capacity of the microwave system is 
fully utilized. Very little time will be required for installation of the 
towers and they can be moved without too much trouble. Relocat- 
ing any stretch of land line is a long-drawn-out operation, with 
numerous interruptions to service. 

These and many other advantages led the Western Union to ini- 
tiate a comprehensive experimental program for the use of micro- 
waves for commercial telegraphy. A patent license agreement was 
entered into with the Radio Corp. of America in July 1944 for use of 
the necessary radio circuit patents. Similar arrangements have also 
been made to use the Armstrong method of frequency modulation. 

The design of the radio equipment has been rapidly developed from 
what were essentially radar techniques to those that will meet the 
requirements of telegraphy by the Victor Division of the Radio Corp. 
of America at Camden, N. J. The telegi-aph company's engineei-s 
have developed the high-capacity WN-2 carrier system which will be 
used in conjunction with the microwave beam system. 

The Western Union carrier which feeds into the radio transmitter 
will consist of 32 voice channels, each of which may carry either 
16 narrow-band telegraph channels, a telephone, or a facsimile cir- 
cuit. The 16 narrow-band telegraph channels are in two groups of 8, 
each of which has a frequency spread of 525 cycles for channel 1 to 
1,575 cycles for channel 8. By means of a frequency translator, iden- 
tical terminal equipment is used for the second group, which, after 
translation in frequency, appears as a band from 2,025 cycles to 3,075 
cycles. Thus the two groups fill a voice channel that has a band width 
of approximately 300 to 3,300 cycles. This means that only eight basic 
telegraph channels are required. Sixty-four duplications of each of 
the eight channels will be used for the entire carrier system instead of a 
total of 512 channel terminals, each having a different frequency. 
This is made possible by the frequency translator or varistor, a simple 
copper oxide or crystal rectifier. 

The output of each of the 32 voice bands will be identical but, again 
by using the frequency translator, each voice band has its output 
translated so that they may be "stacked" one above the other in the 
frequency spectrum, and at the carrier system output there will be 



202 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947 

frequencies of 525 to 150,000 cycles, all originating from eight basic 
channel frequencies. 

The potential capacity of this system is enormous. If nine wide- 
band, high-speed carrier channel terminals were assigned to each of 
the 32 voice channels, we would have 288 channels over which we 
could operate the 4-channel Multiplex. This would give us 1,152 
Multiplex channels, each operating at 66 words per minute, a total 
of 76,032 words per minute in each direction over the entire carrier 
system. 

In case we should get both feet clear off the ground and assign 
a 36-channel Varioplex system to each of the 288 high-speed carrier 
telegraph channels, we could get 10,368 sending and receiving Tele- 
printer circuits for subscriber service. 

If the narrow-band telegraph channel terminals were used on the 
32-voice channel carrier system, we would have 512 sending and receiv- 
ing positions at each terminal. 

During the first stage of the modernization program, a number of 
2-channel Multiplex circuits will be established between the larger 
offices. These will operate at 66 words per minute, or a line frequency 
of 33 cycles per second. In the ultimate, plans are to discontinue the 
use of the Multiplex with its complicated equipment and use nothing 
but Teleprinter circuits, as the simplicity and flexibility of this type 
of equipment will more than offset the high load capacity of the 
Multiplex. 

Radio relay stations will be spaced from 20 to 50 miles apart, de- 
pending upon the topography of the land. The location will also 
depend upon the availability of satisfactory commercial power and 
will be near good roads. The height of the open steel towers will 
range from 60 to 120 feet, as it seems advisable that the transmitted 
beam clear any obstacle by 30 to 50 feet. 

A small cabin 12 feet square and 9 feet high will be mounted at the 
top of the tower. Windows which will be transparent to the micro- 
waves will be provided. Several materials are available for this use, 
such as plexiglass, laminated bakelite, but tests indicate that impreg- 
nated fiberglass cloth has the lowest loss for the high-frequency waves. 
Ice on an open reflector apparently does little harm, while wet snow 
will cause a large drop in signal strength. Provisions will be made to 
house a total of four reflectors with their accompanying high-fre- 
quency oscillator circuit cabinets in each tower. 

A sturdily constructed concrete building about 16 by 30 feet will 
be located at the base of the tower. It will be heated in the winter and 
ventilated in the summer in order to keep the humidity as low as 
possible. 

The balance of the radio equipment and a reserve power plant will 



TELEGRAPHY — HILLIS 203 

be located in this building. The radio equipment is designed to work 
from single-phase, 60-cycle commercial power. In the event of a com- 
mercial power failure, the radio load will be automatically transferred 
to the output of a storage-battery-driven alternator or vibrator. At 
the same time a gasoline-engine-driven alternator is automatically 
started and after the engine has reached operating speed, the radio 
load is transferred to this power supply and remains there until the 
commercial power is restored. A floating rectifier will keep the storage 
battery charged. 

Strategically located maintenance men will service the equipment 
at three or four radio relay towers. They will be furnished with an 
automobile containing an assortment of testing equipment and spare 
parts, although it is planned to do most of the repair work at the 
maintainors headquarters. 

A service channel has been provided for testing purposes between 
the terminals and includes all the radio relay stations. This channel 
is independent and does not interfere with the traffic channel. 

Fault-finding equipment will be provided at the terminals so that 
the operating condition of each unattended tower repeater may be 
quickly determined. A preselected audible frequency will be sent 
by the terminal, which, by means of a band pass filter, will be received 
by the repeater station selected. This signal will be sent back to 
the terminal station after certain intelligence has been added and 
will indicate operating conditions of the equipment at that station. 

Terminal towers will contain radio equipment which will translate 
the ultrahigh radio frequencies to the 300-150,000 cycle telegraph 
carrier. These frequencies are sent to the main office of the telegraph 
Company over a coaxial cable and by means of frequency transla- 
tors and filters are separated into the 32 voice bands. The voice 
bands are either patched to various groups of carrier channel termi- 
nal equipment or to voice bands of other carrier systems. 

Some of the terminal towers will not only contain the radio equip- 
ment, but the telegraph carrier voice band translating equipment as 
well. The conditions at Washington, D. C, make this arrangement 
more practical. At the tower, the radio frequencies will be translated 
to the carrier frequencies. These in turn will be broken down to the 
32 voice bands and the individual voice bands transmitted over cable 
pairs to the main office where only the telegraph channel terminals 
will be located. 

The radio relay network is being laid out on a triangular basis 
as far as possible so that with the failure of any one leg communica- 
tion may be quickly reestablished by using stand-by facilities on the 
other two legs. 



204 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947 

The tremendous capacity of the microwave system will be used to 
provide the large number of telegraph channels that will be required 
for our projected reperforator switching systems. The entire United 
States will be subdivided into 16 reperforator switching centers with 
each center relaying, by mechanical means, all messages in the area 
assigned to it. Thus, St. Louis, Mo., will relay all traffic for the 
State of Illinois outside of Chicago; Minneapolis will handle every- 
thing for North and South Dakota, Wisconsin, Iowa, and Minnesota, 
Each reperforator office will have direct circuits to every other 
reperforator point. 

When the modernization program has been completed, a message 
from Portland, Maine, destined to Joliet, 111., will be sent from Port- 
land to Boston over a Portland-Boston feeder carrier system. At the 
Boston reperforation center, certain equipment will read a switching 
code signal, which Portland inserts ahead of every message, and will 
automatically switch the signals to a direct St. Louis carrier circuit. 
At the St. Louis reperforation center, this intelligence will be received 
on a printer-perforator. This device perforates the message as code 
in the tape and at the same time prints the message on the tape. The 
switching clerk notes the printer Joliet destination, presses the Joliet 
button. Various circuits operate to connect the associated transmitter 
to a Joliet circuit and start the perforated tape through the transmit- 
ter, so that within the space of a few minutes, the message will be re- 
ceived on a Teleprinter at Joliet. Only two switchings will be nec- 
essary to send a message from St. Petersburg, Fla., to Sacramento, 
Calif. The switching at the Florida area reperforation center will be 
entirely automatic, while the received signals at the California area 
reperforation center will be switched by pushing a button. 

Now for the first time we can send telegrams from any independent 
Western Union office in the United States to any other independent 
office in a matter of minutes. By means of the radio relay, which will 
supply the multitude of circuits required, and working in conjunction 
with the reperforator switching systems, we will have speed and de- 
pendability that was only dreamed of a few short years ago. There 
will be no more worrying about ice on the wires, boys shooting insula- 
tors, kite strings in the lead, heavy wet snow and ice breaking off tele- 
graph poles, magnetic storms, and all the other hazards of open-wire 
communications. Thus it can be seen that great strides have been made 
since the days of the Pony Express, and we are truly upon the thresh- 
old of a new era in written communications. 

In conclusion, I wish to thank all my coworkers for the assistance 
they have given me and a very special "thank you" to the boys of the 
Carrier System Development Group in New York. 



TELEGRAPHY — HILLIS 205 

BIBLIOGRAPHY 

1. Western Union Stockholders Report, 1901. 

2. A preview of the Western Union system of radio beam telegraphy, by Col. Julian 

Z. Millar, radio research engineer, Western Union Telegraph Co., New York, 
N. Y. Presented before the Franklin Institute, Feb. 20, 1946. 

3. American telegraph after 100 years, by F. E. d'Humy, vice president, and 

P. J. Howe, assistant chief engineer. Western Union Telegraph Co. Pre- 
sented before the A. I. E. E. summer technical meeting, St. Louis, Mo., 
June 1944. 

4. Radio relays for domestic telegraphy, by F. B. Bramhall, transmission research 

engineer, Western Union Telegraph Co., New York, N. Y. Presented at the 
A. I. E. E. meeting, San Antonio, Tex., April 1946. Published as Western 
Union Engineering Bulletin 29-A. 







z 

Q 

z 

LI 

p< 
Q 

lU QC 

^ 



PLUTONIUM AND OTHER TRANSURANIUM ELEMENTS 



By Gi^NN T. Seabobq 

Department of Chemistry, University of California 

Berkeley, Calif. 



[With 1 plate] 

Ever since the first classification of the elements into the periodic 
table arrangement, it has been felt, and as we now know, correctly, that 
no elements heavier than uranium exist in appreciable concentration on 
the earth. Since the advent of the concept of atomic number, it has 
been possible to state this differently — no elements with an atomic num- 
ber higher than 92 are to be found in appreciable amounts. A num- 
ber of searches for such elements of higher atomic number, which we 
may call transuranium elements, have been made, and although success 
in their identification has been claimed in a few cases, it is now known, 
with the exception of plutonium which exists in extremely small 
amounts as described below, that these elements do not exist in appre- 
ciable amount on the earth. 

Since 1940, however, the four transuranium elements immediately 
following element 92 (uranium) — namely, element 93 (neptunium), 
element 94 (plutonium), element 95 (americium), and element 96 
(curium) — have been discovered as a result of their synthesis by trans- 
mutation reactions starting with uranium as the primary material. 
Of these four transuranium elements, plutonium has assumed the posi- 
tion of dominating importance because of its very successful use as the 
explosive ingredient in the atomic bomb, and of the excellent prospects 
which it offers as the base material for the development of an atomic- 
energy industry. Plutonium is the only transuranium element for 
which methods have been developed for production in relatively large 
amounts — that is, kilogi-am amounts. The development of the chem- 
ical processes which are used in conjunction with this production have 
been described in a previous discussion. 

From a purely scientific point of view, however, the other trans- 
uranium elements are of nearly as great an interest as plutonium. This 

1 Harrison Howe lecture delivered before the Rochester Section of the American Chemical 
Society, November 18, 1946. Reprinted, by permission of the American Chemical Society, 
from Chemical and Engineering News, vol. 25, February 10, 1947. 

207 
777488 — 48 15 



208 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947 

is particularly true since tlie whole group of heaviest elements, includ- 
ing uranium and those immediately below uranium as well as the four 
known transuranium elements and a number of as yet undiscovered 
elements beyond curium, are members of a transition group. This 
makes the chemical and physical properties of each of the elements of 
the whole group of comparable interest. The electron structure of 
these elements, in which the inner "5f shell" of electrons is being filled, 
with the stable structure containing seven 5f electrons occurring with 
tripositive curium, has been described in a previous discussion and 
will not be further discussed here. 

Also, the radioactive properties of the new isotopes in this region 
contribute greatly to our knowledge of the properties of heavy radio- 
active isotopes, and the knowledge of the nature of the regularities of 
these properties contributes to the understanding of nuclear structure. 

The present discussion will be concerned with the four known trans- 
uranium elements, neptunium, plutoniura, americium, and curium. 

NEPTUNIUM 

Neptunium was the first transuranium element to be discovered. 
Using the neutrons from the Berkeley cyclotron, E. M. McMillan 
and P. H. Abelson in 1940 were able to show, with the help of their 
chemical work, that the irradiation of uranium leads to the produc- 
tion of the isotope 93^^^. This isotope, which has a half -life of 2.3 
days, is the decay product of the 23-minute U^^° formed by radiative 
neutron capture in U^^®. Their experiments on the tracer scale of 
investigation enabled them to show that neptunium is similar in chemi- 
cal properties to uranium. This was probably the most significant 
first evidence that the heavy elements do not have electron structures 
analogous to the elements immediately above them in the periodic 
table in which the 5d electron shell is being filled. The similarity of 
neptunium to uranium in chemical properties and its great dissimi- 
larity to rhenium, immediately above it in the periodic table, was the 
first convincing evidence that it is the 5f electron shell which is being 
filled in the heavy-element region. 

Another isotope of neptmiium, Np^^^, was discovered early in 1942 
by bombarding uranium with fast neutrons, using the Berkeley cyclo- 
tron. This isotope is the decay product of the previously known 7-day 
y5-particle emitting U^" which is formed as the result of an (n,2n) 
reaction on U^^^. The isotope, Np^^'', is of particular importance 
because it has a very long life, emitting a-particles with a half -life 
of 2.25 X 10^ years, and because it is available in weighable amounts. 
This isotope is produced during the operation of the large uranium 
chain-reacting units, a very fortunate circumstance, for otherwise 
it is probable that the element neptunium would not be available for 
study in the macroscopic state. 



PLUTONIUM — SEABORG 209 

It is of interest to give a brief description of the complex nuclear 
reactions which lead to the production of this isotope in the uranium- 
graphite chain-reacting units. As is now well known, the nuclear 
chain-reaction depends on the following reaction of the isotope U^^^ 
with neutrons : 

U'^°-f/i > fission products -f neutrons -f- energy (1) 

The neutrons liberated in this fission are fast neutrons, and in the 
case of the natural uranium constituting such chain-reacting units 
these would react preferentially with the large amount of IJ-^^ 
(99.3 percent by weight) and not leave enough neutrons to react with 
the U^^^ to maintain the chain-reaction unless special precautions are 
taken. If the neutrons are reduced in energy this situation no longer 
applies, as the probability of the fission reaction increases markedly 
with decrease in neutron energy. In the uranium-graphite lattice 
structure, in which lumps of uranium are interspersed in a graphite 
matrix, the graphite slows down the fission neutrons without captur- 
ing them. The fission neutrons which originally escaped from the 
uranium then return from the graphite to the uranium, and after the 
proper ptroportion undergo reaction 1 again in order to perpetuate the 
chain, the majority of the remainder undergo the following reaction : 

U^38.^^ , U239 , J^p239 , p^239 (3) 

leading to the production of plutonium. 

However, a certain proportion of the fission neutrons have a suffi- 
ciently high energy to produce the following reaction: 

W'+n >W+2n (3) 

before they escape from the uranium into the graphite. The IJ-^" 
formed in this manner decays to the above-mentioned Np^^^, thus lead- 
ing to the production of this isotope in the uranium in addition to the 
primary desired product, Pu-^", and the fission byproducts. In a 
uranium-graphite pile the Np-^^ is produced at a rate corresponding to 
the order of 0.1 percent of that of the primary product, Pu^^^. 

Some of the isotope Np^^'' has been recovered by suitable modification 
of the chemical separation process used at Hanford. As a result of 
this work and these special runs, several hundred milligrams of the 
isotope Np^^^ have been recovered and made available for the investiga- 
tion of its chemical properties. 

Using this material, it has been possible to make an intensive study 
of the chemical properties of neptunium, leading to the establishment 
of its oxidation states and the properties of a large number of its 
compounds. This work has shown that neptunium has the oxidation 
states VI, V, IV, and III with a general shift in stability toward the 
lower oxidation states as compared to uranium. 



210 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947 

The relatively low specific a-activity of the isotope Np^^ places the 
element neptunium in a class by itself in the transuranium group 
because it is relatively safe to handle from the health standpoint. 
The other transuranium elements are so highly a-radioactive that spe- 
cial techniques and precautions are mandatory when they are handled in 
ordinary, let us say milligi-am, amounts. However, the half -life of 
Np^% 2.25X10^ years, corresponds to a specific a-particle activity of 
some 1% million a-particles per minute per milligram, only about 
1,000 times that of ordinary uranium. Material of this level of radio- 
activity can be handled without special equipment, provided reasonable 
care and precautions are observed. 

It seems desirable to work toward the modification of the chemical 
separation processes used in the plutonium manufacturing plants in 
such a manner that the neptunium will be completely recovered in a 
routine manner and it seems likely that this will be done sometime in 
the future. When neptunium becomes available in moderate amounts, 
one can visualize its eventual classification as an element whose avail- 
ability to chemists as a whole for study will rank along with a number 
of the rarer elements in the classical periodic table. In fact, it is not 
out of the question that neptunium may some day be used sparingly 
in university laboratory courses in qualitative analysis and advanced 
inorganic chemistry and in courses in nuclear chemistry and physics. 

PLUTONIUM 

Plutonium was the second transuranium element to be discovered. 
The first isotope to be fund was Pu^, an a-emitter of some 50 years' 
half-life, formed according to the following reactions: 

U^s-^ji^ , Np238^2n (4) 

Np238 . , Pu238 (5) 

2.0-day 

The chemistry of plutonium was first investigated by the tracer 
technique using this isotope. These experiments showed that the 
chemical properties of this element are similar to those of neptunium 
and uranium, differing in that the lower oxidation states of plutonium 
are more stable. 

The isotope of major importance is, of course, Pu^^^ This isotope, 
which is an a-emitter with a half-life of about 24,000 years, is 
synthesized according to reactions 1 and 2 above, and its tremendous 
importance stems from its property of being fissionable with slow 
neutrons, together with the fact that the problem of its mass production 
has been solved. 



PLUTONIUM — SEABORG 211 

The Plutonium Project of the Manhattan District was organized for 
the purpose of producing this isotope, the explosive ingredient for the 
atomic bomb. The first isolation of pure Pu^^^ and the early study of 
its chemistry and the design of the chemical process for its large-scale 
separation from uranium and fission products, which involved work on 
the ultramicrochemical scale with only microgram amounts of material, 
have been described in previous discussions. 

The availability of the relatively large amounts of plutonium, as the 
result of the successful operation of the chain-reacting uranium piles, 
has made it possible to make a complete investigation of its chemical 
properties using methods which can be considered to be those of ordi- 
nary chemistry except for the health precautions which are necessary. 
This work has established that plutonium has the oxidation states VI, 
V, IV, and III, and that there is a shift in stability toward the III 
state as compared to neptunium and uranium. A large number of 
compounds of plutonium have been prepared and their properties 
determined. It may be said that the chemistry of plutonium today is 
as well or better understood than is that of most of the elements in 
the periodic system, even though its chemistry is very complex as can 
be judged by the multiple oxidation states. 

Because of its relatively high specific a-radioactivity, amounting to 
about 140,000,000 a disintegrations per minute per milligram, special 
equipment and special precautions are necessary in the investigations 
of its properties. This high a-radioactvity makes it expedient to con- 
tinue to use rather small amounts — that is milligram amounts — for a 
number of these investigations even though large amounts might be 
available. Even if there were no other reasons, its high a-radio- 
activity places plutonium outside of the class of elements which might 
eventually find widespread distribution among chemists for investi- 
gation of its chemical properties. 

As I have indicated earlier, the question as to the existence of trans- 
uranium elements in nature has long been a matter for speculation and 
investigation. It was also indicated that it is now almost certainly 
known that these elements do not exist in appreciable amounts on the 
face of the earth. I would like to discuss this matter further because 
it is true that one of these elements, plutonium, has been experimentally 
found to exist in nature in minute amount. 

The knowledge of the chemical properties of neptunium and plu- 
tonium which had become available as a result of the discovery and 
study of these elements made it possible to conduct very effective 
searches for these elements in various minerals. Early in 1942 G. T. 
Seaborg and M. L. Perlman in Berkeley undertook a search for these 
elements in pitchblende ore, the primary purpose at that time being 
to establish whether such a source of a fissionable transuranium isotope 
might serve as a practical source capable of substituting for the, at that 



212 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947 

time, undeveloped and questionable nuclear chain-reaction for produc- 
tion purposes. 

The ore pitchblende was chosen for this first search because it was felt 
that a source rich in radioactive material would offer the most hope 
and also because pitchblende is known to contain a large number, some 
40, of different elements. About 0.5 kilogram of pitchblende ore was 
completely dissolved and subjected to an exhaustive chemical process 
designed to separate and isolate the elements neptmiium and plu- 
tonium. A small quantity of a-radioactivity was found in this trans- 
uranium fraction and these investigators attributed this to the plu- 
tonium isotope, Pu'^^. The amount of plutonium in the pitchblende 
corresponded to about one part in 10^*, an amount which could not 
possibly have been f oimd had the chemical properties not been known. 
Thus, although the experiment proved that this could not be a prac- 
tical source for the production of plutonium, it also gave good evidence 
that this element does exist in measurable quantities on the face of 
the earth. 

The relatively short half -life of Pu^^^ compared to the age of the earth 
makes it necessary that it be continuously formed in order that it be 
present on the earth in any detectable amount. There is a mechanism 
for its continuous formation which can both qualitatively and quanti- 
tatively account for its presence in pitchblende. Uranium undergoes 
spontaneous fission according to the following reaction : 

^238 ^ fission products+ neutrons + energy (6) 



238 



and the rate corresponds to a "half -life" for this process of some 10 
years. If all the neutrons from this process are reabsorbed by U 
to form Pu^^^ according to reaction 2 above, the amount of Pu'^^ in the 
pitchblende in equilibrium with its parent U^^^ would be (assuming 
two neutrons per spontaneous fission) 2X24,000/10^^= approximately 
500 parts in 10". This corresponds to some 100 or 200 parts of Pu^^^ 
per 10" parts of pitchblende. Thus only about 1 percent of the spon- 
taneous fission neutrons need be absorbed by TJ-^, the remainder either 
escaping or being reabsorbed by the many neutron-absorbing impuri- 
ties in the pitchblende, in order to account for the Pu^^^ present. 

There are, of course, other sources of neutrons which may be of com- 
parable importance in the formation of this Pu-^^. For example, 
uranium, and especially its decay products, emits a-particles which 
can give rise to neutrons according to the well-known (a, n) reaction 
as a result of their reaction with light nuclei — for example, lithium, 
boron, beryllium, fluorine, oxygen, etc. — in the pitchblende. 

A further search for the presence of transuranium elements in nature 
was made during the summer of 1942. Another radioactive ore — 
namely, carnotite — was chosen this time, the investigation being car- 
ried out by C. S, Garner, N. A. Bonner, and G. T. Seaborg. As in the 



PLUTONIUM — SEABORG 213 

case of the pitchblende a transuranium fraction which would contain 
neptunium and plutonium was carefully isolated from the completely 
dissolved carnotite ore, about 5 kilograms being used in this case. 
Again an alpha-radioactivity was found, the concentration of the 
corresponding Pu-^^ being comparable to that found in the pitchblende. 
It was originally intended to extend the search for transuranium 
elements to a number of other ores, but the exigencies of the investi- 
gations in connection with the Plutonium Project made it impossible to 
carry out this program. Such a program did not seem justified in 
view of the small amounts which had been found in the pitchblende 
and carnotite. The results of the investigation tempt one toward the 
conclusion that transuranium elements do not exist in practical amounts 
on the face of the earth. There will, of course, be some neptunium, in 
the form of the isotope Np^^^, present in pitchblende, carnotite and 
other uranium-bearing ores formed as the result of reaction 3 above, 
but it seems very likely that the concentration of this is even smaller 
than the concentration of the plutonium. The amounts of americiura 
and curium on the basis of present indications would appear to be even 
smaller. However, there is just an outside possibility that there might 
exist some transuranium isotope or isotopes, perhaps, whose radiation 
characteristics have not yet been characterized, formed by a mechanism 
as yet not conceived. Thus, although it appears that transuranium 
elements do not exist on the earth in any ores in concentrations larger 
than some one part per 10^*, it might be a little premature to make this 
statement too definite and further searches for such elements might be 
worth while. 

AMERICIUM 

Americium, the element with atomic number 95, was the fourth 
transuranium element to be discovered, its first identification taking 
place late in 1944 and early in 1945. The first isotope of this element 
was identified in the experiments of G. T. Seaborg, R. A. James, and 
L. O. Morgan at the Metallurgical Laboratory of the University of 
Chicago. 

The bombardment of U"* with very high-energy (40 to 44 Mev.) 
helium ions in the cyclotron leads to the formation of the isotope of 
americium with mass 241 — that is, Am^''\ The Am-" is the daughter 
of a relatively long-lived ^-emitting Pu-" which is formed in the 
primary reaction of U^^® and helium ions. The reactions therefore 
are as follows : 

U^^'^-f 2He^ > Pu^-'i + n (7) 

^- 

Pu2" > Am^"! (8) 

long 

The isotope Am^" emits a-particles with a half -life of 500 years. 



214 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947 

The availability of this isotope of americium made it possible to 
study the chemical properties of this element using the tracer tech- 
nique. Deductions from this work led to the conclusion that this 
element probably exists in aqueous solution in only the one oxidation 
state, the III state. This is in line with the tendency toward the 
stabilization of the lower oxidation states in going to the heavier ele- 
ments in this region. 

It has recently been possible to isolate americium in the form of a 
pure compound of this element. B. B. Cunningham, working at the 
Metallurgical Laboratory, has succeeded in isolating this element and 
in studying its chemical properties using a weighable amount on the 
ultramicrochemical scale. This is a remarkable achievement in that 
the amounts available here were even smaller than those in the case of 
neptunium and plutonium. This, then, is the third synthetic element 
which has been isolated in pure form. The work of Cunningham and 
L. B. Werner with pure americium in aqueous solution has confirmed 
the tracer work by showing that the III oxidation state is very stable 
in solution and is the predominant and most important state. 

Americium, with its 500-year half-life, has a higher specific a-activ- 
ity than even Pu^^^. Its specific a-activity amounts to some 7 billion 
a disintegrations per minute per milligram. Thus even if this element 
should become available in ordinary amounts, let us say, milligram 
amounts, it will always be necessary to conduct its investigation with 
special precautions and using the special techniques for handling 
highly a-active material. The investigation of the chemical properties 
of americium will demand investigators who are well trained with 
handling highly a-active materials. 

CURIUM 

Curium was the third transuranium element to be discovered. The 
first isotope of this element was the isotope, Cm^*^, which was identified 
in 1944 by G. T. Seaborg, E. A. James, and A. Ghiorso at the Metal- 
lurgical Laboratory as the result of its production in the Berkeley 
60-inch cyclotron by the following reaction : 

Pu^^HjHe^ > Crn^'+n (9) 

The isotope, Cm^*^, is an a-paiticle emitter with a half -life of about 5 
months. 

The availability of this isotope of curium made it possible to study 
the chemical properties of this element by use of the tracer technique. 
Extensive investigations have led to the conclusion that curium prob- 
ably exists exclusively in the III oxidation state in aqueous solution. 
It is carried quantitatively by the rare earth fluorides in precipitation 
reactions and can be separated from them only with difficulty. 



PLUTONIUM — SEABORG 215 

The isotope Cm^" is also formed as the result of the strong neutron 
irradiation of Am-". The Am-*^ absorbs neutrons to form a short- 
lived (18-hour half-life) yS-emitter, Am^*^, which in turn decays to the 
Cm^". These nuclear reactions may be summarized as follows : 

Am'^'+n > Am ^*^-{-y (10) 

Am2*2 ,Cm2« (11) 

18-hr. 

Another isotope of curium is also known. The bombardment of 
Pu239 with 44-Mev. helium ions leads to the production of the 1-month 
a-emitting Cm^^" by the reaction : 

Pu23»-f-2He* > Cm'^^+Sn 

The relative yield of Cm-^" compared to the yield of Cm^*^ from re- 
action 9 above increases with increasing energy of the helium ions. 

The element curium has not yet been isolated in the pure state and 
therefore this is the only one of the four known transuranium ele- 
ments for which this has not been done.^ It is, of course, of interest to 
inquire whether it will be possible to do this in the future. Appar- 
ently this will be difficult with the present isotopes, Cm^*^ or Cm^^, 
since these have rather short half-lives — namely, approximately 5 
months and 1 month, respectively. As has been the case for the other 
three transuranium elements the first isolation of curium in the pure 
state will probably take place as the result of work on the ultramicro- 
chemical scale with microgram or less amounts of material. 

The isotope Cm^" with its 5-month half -life has a specific a-activity 
corresponding to about 10" a disintegrations per minute per milligram. 
This will mean that even 1 microgram will correspond to some 10^ 
disintegrations per minute. A specific a-radioactivity of this magni- 
tude gives rise to problems due to the aggregate recoil of submicro- 
gram particles as a result of the tremendous rate of a-emission. Never- 
theless, it seems entirely possible and even likely that curium, prob- 
ably in the form of the longer-lived isotope Cm^*^, will be isolated in 
the pure state as soon as the problem of its production in microgram 
amounts is solved. Once this pure element is available in microgram 
amounts it will be possible to study its chemistry by means of investi- 
gations on the ultramicrochemical scale, although each measurement 
in this case will be most difficult and laborious. Among the difficul- 
ties here will be the rapid decomposition of the water in the solution, 
the formation of hydrogen peroxide in the solution, heating of the 
solution, and other effects. However, as in the cases of the other 

* Curium was Isolated In pure form In the fall of 1947 by L. B. Werner and J. Perlman 
at the University of California. 

777488 — 48 16 



216 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947 

three transuranium elements, where it was possible to graduate from 
tracer scale investigations to the more certain investigations with the 
pure elements, it does not seem too optimistic to hope that this will 
soon also be true for curium. 

It is, of course, not improbable that it will eventually be possible to 
prepare isotopes of curium of longer half-life. It is, in fact, even 
probable that isotopes such as Cm^^^, Cm^**, Cm^*^, or Cm^*^ may have 
longer half -lives and that these isotopes may eventually become avail- 
able for investigation. 



Smithsonian Report. 1947. — Seaborg 





JI 




Precipitate of Americium Hydroxide in'Capillary tube 
Eye of needle shows degree of magnification. 



THE USE OF ISOTOPES AS TRACERS 



By A. H. W. Aten, Jr. 

and 

F. A. Heyn 



[With 1 plate] 
INTRODUCTION 

When the periodic system of chemical elements was set up in the 
course of the previous century, it was thought that each element con- 
sisted of only one definite kind of atom. Later this was found to be 
incorrect: an element may consist of different kinds of atoms which 
have practically identical chemical properties — the criterion for denot- 
ing the atoms by the name of the respective element — ^but differ in 
atomic weight by one or more units. Such isotopic atoms, so called 
because they have to be given the same position in the periodic system, 
may be stable or unstable. In the latter case they undergo a gradual 
change, accompanied by a radiation, into another kind of atom ; they 
are then radioactive. 

Almost all the kinds of atoms occurring in nature are stable. There 
are only a few unstable ones, namely the well-known substances with 
natural radioactivity, such as radium, thorium, uranium, etc. In addi- 
tion to these, howpver, it is nowadays possible to turn each element 
into one or more new isotopes which do not occur in nature, all of 
which are unstable (artificial radioactive substances). 

A single example will serve to illustrate the above. The element 
calcium occurring in nature consists of six stable isotopic kinds of 
atoms, namely, for 96.96 percent Ca*", i. e., calcium atoms with an 
atomic weight of 40 (in round numbers), and further 0.64 percent 
Ca«, 0.15 percent Ca*% 2.06 percent Ca", 0.0033 percent Ca*« and 0.19 
percent Ca**. Furthermore, up to the beginning of the year 1944 it 
had been found possible to make artificially six more radioactive cal- 
cium isotopes with atomic weights 39, 39, 41, 45, 49, 49. The various 
unstable isotopes can further be distinguished from each other by the 
character of their radioactivity. In the case of a radioactive atom a 

* Reprinted by permission from Philips Technical Review, vol. 8, No. 10, October 1946. 

217 



218 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 194 7 

certain percentage of the atomic nuclei present is transformed per 
second into another sort by spontaneous disintegration, each disinte- 
grating nucleus emitting, according to its sort, a negative or positive 
electron or an a-particle (helium-nucleus). This is often accompanied 
by an electromagnetic radiation (y-radiation). The intensity of the 
total radiation of a radioactive preparation at any moment can easily 
be measured. As the number of nondisintegrated atomic nuclei is 
continually decreasing, while the chance of distintegration remains 
constant for each atom and thus also the percentage of nuclei disinte- 
grating per second, the radioactivity observed decreases with time. 
The velocity of this decrease usually expressed by the "half-value 
time," i. e., the time in which the intensity of the radiation falls to 
one-half, is characteristic for each isotope. The above-mentioned six 
radioactive calcium isotopes have half-value times of 4.5 minutes, 
1.06 seconds, 8.5 days, 180 days, 2.5 hours, and 30 minutes respectively. 

The existence of the isotopes is not merely of theoretical interest. In 
the last 10 to 20 years isotopes have become an extremely useful prac- 
tical aid for all kinds of scientific and technical investigations. This 
use of isotopes is based for a large part on the fact that an isolated 
isotope of an element takes part in chemical and physical processes in 
exactly the same way as the familiar mixture of isotopes of that element 
which occurs in nature, while the isotope in question can always be 
recognized by the investigator and can be traced even in a chemically 
identical environment, thanks to its radioactivity or difference in 
atomic weight. The isotope thus functions as a tracer, capable of fur- 
nishing information about the process taking place, which would be 
much more difficult or even quite impossible to obtain in any other way. 

We shall explain this in more detail, but for better orientation of the 
reader we shall first discuss four examples out of the large number of 
investigations which have already been carried out with isotopes as 
tracers. 

WHAT CAN BE DONE WITH (RADIOACTIVE) ISOTOPIO TRACERS 

First example. — In the production of steel, among other substances 
the phosphorus, which is present in quite considerable quantities in 
the crude iron, has to be rendered harmless by adding a slag-forming 
substance or by lining the crucible with a material that reacts with 
phosphorus. A continuous check has then to be kept of the amount of 
phosphorus still present in the molten metal. This can, of course, 
be done by chemical anal j; sis of samples, but results are obtained much 
more quickly and easily when a small amount of radioactive phos- 
l)horus is added to the melt at the beginning of the process. This is 
rapidly distributed uniformly throughout the melt, so that the ratio 
between the natural phosphorus present and the radioactive phos- 



ISOTOPES — ATEN AND HEYN 219 

phorus added is the same everywhere. If phosphorus disappears 
from the melt into the sUig floating on the surface or into the lining 
of the crucible this takes place to an equal degree with the natural 
and with the radioactive element. The decrease in the percentage of 
phosphorus in the melt can thus be determined merely by ascertaining 
the decrease in the radioactive phosphorus. This is extremely simple, 
since it is only necessary to measure the radioactivit}; of a sample of 
the melt, which can be done very easily with an electrometer or an 
electron counter.^ 

Second example. — In many factories the workers come into contact 
with mercury, and it is known how harmful the regular inhalation of 
mercury vapor can be ; in course of time a concentration of more than 
10"* gram of mercury per m^ of air already becomes injurious to health. 
It is a difficult problem to detect the presence of mercury in such 
minute proportions, because chemical analyses are unavailing in such 
cases. In a certain case which occurred in the manufacture of tubular 
luminescent lamps in an American factor}?, where the lamps were 
filled with mercury vapor at a low pressure, a glass side-tube con- 
taining a small drop of mercury had to be "blown" onto the lamp, and 
inevitably the glass blower inhaled a very small quantity of mercury 
vapor into his lungs. In order to determine how much was inlialed 
a number of tests were carried out with a volume of 2 liters of air that 
had been in contact with the drops of mercury under exactly the same 
conditions as in the manufacturing process, this being drawn off by 
suction and passed over a metal plate kept at the temperature of liquid 
air. Practically all the mercury in the air condensed on the plate. 

The mercury used for the experiments contained a known, small 
percentage of a radioactive mercury isotope. The radioactivity of the 
plate, which was quite simple to measure after the experiment, gave 
an indication of the amount of mercury contained in the air which 
had passed over the plate. In this way a concentration of 5 X 10"^ g/m^ 
could be detected. Average mercury concentrations were found of 
about 10"^ and in one case about 4 X 10-^ g/m^, from which it was con- 
cluded that in the manufacturing process in question the glass blower 
ran no danger of poisoning.^ 

Third example. — When a piece of metal is fused with a radioactive 
lead isotope in an atmosphere of hydrogen and then allowed to crystal- 
lize again, there are two possibilities. In some metals, such as thal- 
lium and magnesium, lead is soluble to a considerable percentage, the 
lead atoms being uniformly distributed in the grains and the poly- 
pi An electron counter was described, e. g., by A. Bouwers and F. A. Heyn, in Philips 
Techn. Rev., vol. 6, p. 75, 1941. In the measurements allowance must of course be made 
for the natural decline in radioactivity with time. We shall return to such practical 
details on a later occasion. 

» J. W. Irvine and C. Goodman, Journ. Appl. Phys., vol. 14, p. 496, 1943. 



220 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947 

crystalline metal obtained. In other metals, on the other hand, such 
as bismuth, tin, antimony, silver, gold, copper, and nickel, in which 
lead is practically insoluble, the radioactive lead is situated on the 
boundaries of the grains. When a microscopic preparation of the 
metal is made and laid on a photographic plate for several hours after 
development, the plate will be found to be blackened at those places 
where it lay against radioactive particles, thus where lead has been 
deposited. By means of such an "autoradiogram," of which plate 1, 
figure 1 is an illustration, it is possible in the first place to ascertain 
whether and to what degree the added lead is soluble in the metal ; if 
the lead is entirely dissolved the entire surface of the photographic 
plate is uniformly blackened; if the lead does not dissolve, or only 
partially, the radiogram shows up very nicely also the boundaries of 
the grains (pi. 1, fig. 1). Thus the isotopic method can also in this 
case furnish valuable information about the changes taking place in 
the structure of the metal upon recrystallization and in rolling.* 

Fourth exaTfiple. — Friction between two metal surfaces is due partly 
to adhesion, the result being that when the surfaces slide over each 
other extremely small particles of metal are torn out of one and taken 
up in the other. This exchange of metal may take place to such an 
extent that two surfaces become, as it were, welded together (the 
familiar seizing). The quantity of material thus transferred from 
one metal to the other is a measure of the contribution of this effect 
to the total force of friction. In general it is a question of very small 
amounts which chemically can hardly be detected at all. An investi- 
gation has now been carried out with the help of a radioactive tracer." 
One metal surface was "activated," i. e., it consisted for a small 
part of atoms of a radioactive isotope of the metal. After this sur- 
face had been made to slide over the second, nonactivated metal sur- 
face, the latter also showed a certain amount of radioactivity. 
Amounts of 10-^° gram of transferred metal were detected in this 
way, and, what is more, by means of a radiogram, as described in the 
preceding example, also the distribution of the transferred material 
on the surface could be studied. From the radiogram shown in plate 1, 
figure 2, (Z, it may be concluded, for example, that in this experiment 
the sliding of the two metal surfaces over each other was not con- 
tinuous but took place in small jerks. By this method the influence of 
all kinds of factors, such as the pressure, the hardness of the surface, 
etc., on the transfer of material can be studied, as also the effect of a 
lubricant. (See pi. 1, fig. 2, h.) 



«G. Tammann and G. Bandel, Zeitschr. Metallk., vol. 25, pp. 153 and 207, 1933. 
■ B. W. Sakmann, J. T. Burwell, and J. W. Irvine, Journ. Appl. Phys., vol. 15, p. 495, 
1944; J. N. Gregory, Nature (London), vol. 157, p. 444, Apr. 6, 1946. 



ISOTOPES — ATEN AND HEYN 221 

WHY THE TRACER METHOD IS SO IMPORTANT 

From these few examples we can already deduce the most important 
aspects which have lent such great significance to the tracer method. 

We first call attention to the last example discussed. The transfer 
of material can also be measured when the two surfaces sliding over 
each other contain the same metals or even when they are exactly 
identical. It must be realized that this would not be possible by any 
other known method, since the transfer takes place in both directions : 
there is an exchange of identical particles. It would not be possible 
by any chemical or physical method to ascertain the origin of the 
metal present on one of the surfaces after the experiment, whereas 
the radioactive isotope immediately gives the answer. 

Processes in which there is an exchange of identical particles are 
very common in nature, not only in chemistry and metallurgy, but 
especially in the physiology of plants and animals. The tracer method, 
which offers the only method of approach, has been used on a large 
scale for the investigation of such processes, and the publications in 
that field are innumerable. In a survey of such investigations for 
the year 1940 ^ in physiology alone more than 300 publications are 
cited. But also in the field of technology, for routine tests, and like- 
wise in agriculture and chemistry, the method is being more and more 
widely applied.'^ 

Although the last example discussed illustrates the possibility of 
studying the exchange of identical particles with the help of an isotope, 
the employment of the tracer method in that case is not motivated 
only by the possibility mentioned. When two different metals slide 
over each other the transfer of material could in principle be studied 
also by other methods. The fact that a radioactive tracer is, never- 
theless, used, is due to the fact that a much greater sensitivity can be 
attained with the radioactivity measurements, i. e., much smaller 
amounts of a substance can be detected than with other methods so far 
available. The same applies to the case of the determination of 
mercury. In the determination of phosphorus, which was discussed as 
the first example, the indicator method is not necessary in principle 
either, but it was applied there because of the greater ease with whidi 
the quantity of phosphorus could be determined, compared with a 
chemical or other analysis. Finally, an important point in the em- 
ployment of a radioactrve isotope is that it can be localized so easily 
when mixed with a different or a chemically identical substance, while 
also its distribution can be determined. (See the radiograms of pi. 1, 
figs. 1 and 2.) 

« J. R. Loofbonrow, Rev. Mod. Phys., vol. 12, p. 267, 1940. 

T See, for example, the survey of chemical applications by G. Seaborp, Chem. Rev., vol. 27, 
p. 199, 1940, where more than 500 publications are mentioned, most of them different from 
those in the article by Loofbourow. 



222 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 194 7 

Where radioactive isotopes are applied for the sake of the advan- 
tages of greater sensitivity and easier working, while in principle other 
methods would also provide an answer to the questions raised, one 
might speak of "untrue" applications of the indicator method. In 
such cases the nature of the isotope is sometimes a matter of indiffer- 
ence; in order to obtain a radiogram of the grain boundaries in a 
polycrystalline material it would also be possible to use a radioactive 
isotope of some metal other than lead, provided it does not dissolve in 
the base metal. In the "true" applications of the tracer method it is 
quite different, for there it is essential that an isotope can be detected 
in identical surroundings. 

In this connection attention should be called to the fact that the 
tracer method can also be applied with nonradioactive isotopes. The 
atoms of such isotopes are recognizable (labeled) by their different 
atomic weight and the properties connected therewith, such as specific 
weight, velocity of diffusion, heat conductivity, etc. The most im- 
portant atoms to be considered are "heavy hydrogen" (deuterium) of 
atomic weight 2 (approximate), the oxygen isotope of atomic weight 
18, and the nitrogen isotope of atomic weight 15. With such stable 
isotopes the measurement of the radioactivity of mixtures of isotopes 
is replaced by measurements of density or the like. 

These measurements are generally much less easy than the measure- 
ment of radioactivity and also not so sensitive by far. With stable 
isotopes there is, therefore, no question of "untrue" applications of the 
tracer method. The reason for using these is solely the possibility of 
studying processes of exchange, where no suitable radioactive isotopes 
can be found. 

Owing to the very large number of applications of the indicator 
method (true and untrue) it has become impossible, as well as purpose- 
less, to give a survey of these applications, even if one confined oneself 
to a definite field. We shall not, therefore, attempt to do so, but in the 
following we shall say something about the origin of the method and 
follow this up with a number of suitably chosen examples, with the 
intention of showing the possibilities of the method from different 
angles. In a subsequent article we shall go more deeply into the 
practical performance of investigations with radioactive and also 
with stable isotopes. As to this practical performance we can only 
point out here that it is not necessary to prepare the radioactive (or 
stable) isotopes oneself, for they can be obtained from certain suitably 
equipped laboratories. In Europe the Philips Laboratory in Eind- 
hoven, among others, has already supplied suitable radioactive sub- 
stances for a number of applications. 



ISOTOPES — ATEN AND HEYN 223 

ORIGIN OF THE METHOD 

The tracer method was initiated by Hevesy, who first discovered the 
possibility of studying processes of exchange by that means and im- 
mediately put his ideas into practice (in 1915). He used the method, 
for instance, to test the theory of Arrhenius about the dissociation of 
electrolytes. In essence his experiment was as follows. From a cer- 
tain amount of normal lead a lead salt is prepared, for instance lead 
chloride, and from a corresponding amount of the radioactive lead 
isotope, which is formed as a disintegration product of radium, another 
salt, for instance lead nitrate, is prepared. When the two salts are 
dissolved in water, the solutions mixed, and then the two salts extracted 
separately from the mixture, the two lead compounds are found to 
have become equally radioactive. 

The lead atoms from the two salts must, therefore, have been com- 
pletely mixed in the solution. This result agrees entirely with the 
hypothesis that the lead compounds are dissociated in the solution, 
i. e., that lead occurs therein in the form of free ions. 

We have just said that one salt was prepared from normal lead and 
the other from the radioactive lead isotope. Consequently, in order 
to carry out the experiment in this way a sample of the pure radio- 
active lead isotope would have to be available. Actually, however, this 
is not necessar3\ It is sufficient if one sample of lead contains only 
a small amount of the radioactive isotope. Hevesy recognized this 
from the very beginning, as may be seen from the curious story of 
the way in which he came to use the isotopes in this way. He had 
tried in vain to separate radium D from a quantity of lead containing 
a small amount of that substance. Since radium D is an isotope of lead 
(the radioactive isotope mentioned in the radium series; its name dates 
from the time when there was no clear idea of the situation) , it cannot, 
as we now know, be separated by ordinary chemical means. It was 
just this failure that gave Hevesy the idea that he could always dis- 
tinguish the lead of this sample "contaminated" with radium D from 
a sample of ordinary lead : in all mixtures with ordinary lead every 
fraction of the "contaminated" (radioactive) lead sample takes an 
equal fraction of the original radioactivity with it and can thus be 
determined quantitatively by measurement of the radioactivity. 

The "contaminated" lead is thus, as it were, indicated or labeled by tlie radio- 
active isotope itself, and provided it is a homogeneous mixture the whole sample 
can serve as a quantity of labeled atoms. Tliis is in fact obvious when it is borne 
in mind that the radioactivity of an element only means that per unit of time 
a certain percentage of the atoms present in a sample disintegrates spontane- 
ously. If the sample also contains a number of isotopic atoms which are stable 
and thus will never disintegrate, the only result, in the first instance, is that the 
percentage of disintegrating atoms per unit of time, is smaller, thus the radio- 
activity is "diluted." In fact, also in the first examples discussed there were 
777488 — iS 17 



224 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947 

certain dilutions of radioactive phosphorus and mercury, and this is usually the 
case with artificial radioactive substances where the degree of "concentration" 
of the radioactivity depends upon the preparation of the substance. 

Hevesy's applications of radioactive substances were not confined 
to exchange experiments. He realized also the significance of radio- 
activity measurements as a substitute for chemical analyses, owing to 
the great ease and sensitivity of the method as illustrated by our first 
examples, and he thus also made use of "untrue" applications of in- 
dicators. Once, when he had reason to suspect the cleanliness of his 
landlady, he smeared a bit of "dirt" with a radioactive substance on 
his dinner plate and checked daily whether the plate had been prop- 
erly washed simply by measuring the radioactivity which (literally) 
still clung to it. He was indeed able to detect radioactivity of the 
plate for many days. Whether or not this was to be ascribed to the 
carelessness of the landlady or to the extreme sensitivity of the method, 
history fails to relate. 

DENOMINATION OF THE METHOD 

Hevesy called a radioactive isotope used for the experiments de- 
scribed, an indicator, and thus following his example one often speaks 
of the indicator method. In recent years in English-speaking coun- 
tries the terms "tracer method" and "tracer atoms" have become more 
usual: The radioactive isotopes are used, as it were, for discovering 
and following a trace. "Labeled" and "tagged" atoms are also often 
spoken of. The terms speak for themselves. Finally, to complete the 
list, we may mention the denoting of these atoms as "spies," as pro- 
posed by Evans.* This name is meant to indicate that each atom of a 
radioactive isotope can move about unrecognized in a "crowd" of even 
similar atoms until at a certain moment it "betrays" its presence and 
whereabouts by its disintegration. The concentration of "spies" in the 
experiments usually lies between 1 to 10^° and 1 to 10^' normal indi- 
viduals. Translated into terms of human society, this would be 
equivalent to one spy among a population at least five times as large 
as that of the whole earth. 

FURTHER EXAMPLES OF THE APPLICATION OF TRACERS 

The examples which will be discussed in the following in unrelated 
order, will give the reader an idea of the multifarious nature of the 
applications of indicators. In order to reduce them to some kind of 
systematic order we have sorted out the examples into three groups 
according to the character of the problem. In the first group the prob- 
lem is only where something is situated (localization), in the second 

» R. D. Evans, Applied Nuclear Physics, Journ. Appl. Phys., toI. 12, p. 260, 1941. 



ISOTOPES — ATEN AND HEYN 225 

gi'oup how much of a substance there is, remains behind, or takes part 
in a process (quantitative problems) ; in the third group it is particu- 
larly a question of exchange processes. It must be said, however, that 
often the boundaries between the groups cannot be sharply drawn. In 
localization problems one is obviously always concerned with "mitrue" 
indicator applications, as is also usually the case in the second group 
(quantitative problems), while the last group contains only "true" 
cases. 

Localization. — A very old example is the tracing of samples of 
radium that have been lost in hospitals through carelessness or theft ; 
the places where the sample might possibly be, for instance the refuse 
heap, are gone over with an electron counter. A more modern case 
is the tracing of stoppages in an oil pipe line. In the periodical 
cleaning of the walls of the pipe a screw-shaped scraper is placed 
in the line and pushed along by the pressure of the oil itself. If the 
scraper gets jammed somewhere, it has to be located as quickly as 
possible, in order to open the line at that point and remove the accu- 
mulated deposit. With the help of a radioactive indicator this locali- 
zation is astonishingly simple. A scraper is used that contains a little 
radioactive material emitting y-radiation, which easily penetrates 
through the walls of the pipe and can be detected with a somewhat 
modified "electron counter." One rides along the line with this "count- 
ing" apparatus until the radioactivity betrays the position where the 
scraper has stopped. 

There is another similar application in the petroleum industry, for 
determining the setting depth of the cement that is pumped in behind 
the casing of an oil well. A radioactive mineral, carnotite, is mixed 
with the cement and when a counting instrument is lowered into the 
drill hole it indicates a strong radiation at the level of the cement. 

Extremely fine cracks in metal surfaces can be detected and local- 
ized by applying a greasy paste containing a radioactive substance to 
the surface of the metal under high pressure. Upon the surface be- 
ing cleaned, the radioactive paste is left in the cracks, and by making 
an autoradiogram of the surface the cracks can then easily be seen. 

Quantitative problems. — In order to determine the efficiency of a 
fog, smoke, or dust filter, it is necessary to measure the very small 
quantities of fog-forming or other substances retained by the filter. 
As fog- forming substance, tricresyl phosphate, containing radioactive 
phosphorus is used. When this is passed successively through several 
filters, their efficiency can be judged by comparing the intensity of their 
radioactivity. 

Radioactive isotopes are sometimes an excellent means of measuring 
very small solubilities or very low vapor pressures. The vapor pres- 
sure of thorium acetyl acetonate, for example, has been determined 



226 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947 

by preparing a sample of the compound with a strongly radioactive 
thorium isotope, saturating a given volume of nitrogen with the vapor 
of the compound and passing the gas through acidified alcohol, in 
which the compound is absorbed. The thorium concentration can 
then be calculated from the radioactivity of the liquid and from that 
the amount of vapor in the given volume of nitrogen. 

In general it may be said that radioactive isotopes render valuable 
service in microchemistry, i. e., the chemical investigation of extremely 
small quantities of a substance, as for instance in adsorption phenom- 
ena, in very dilute solutions, etc. Another interesting fact is that 
radioactivity has made possible the investigation of the chemical prop- 
erties of the elements "43" and "85" and of several "transuraniums," 
elements which could not be found in nature but from which radio- 
active isotopes could be prepared artificially in imponderably small 
quantities. 

Important perspectives are opened by the application of radioactive 
indicators in chemical analysis, so often constituting daily routine 
work in technology. One example out of many is the following. It 
is desired to determine the bromine content in a mixture of a bromide 
and a chloride. A complete separation of the two compounds is very 
difficult and takes up a great deal of time. If, however, a little radio- 
active bromine ( in the form of the compound in question ) is added to 
the mixture, only a partial separation of the bromine is sufficient. Due 
to the homogeneous mixing it is known that the ratio between the bro- 
mine separated and the total amount of bromine is equal to the ratio 
between the radioactivity separated out and the original radioactivity. 
Since the latter ratio is easily determined, it is possible to calculate 
the desired total content of bromine directly from the amount of 
bromine separated out. 

An application in biology somewhat resembling the above is the 
determination of the total amount of blood in an animal. After a 
certain amount of blood has been taken death inevitably sets in and it 
is then impossible to draw off the rest of the blood. If, however, a 
solution of some substance or other containing a known quantity of 
radioactive atoms is injected into the test animal intravenously and 
given time to distribute itself homogeneously throughout the whole 
circulatory system, a small sample of the blood suffices, for the total 
amount of blood can then be calculated from the percentage of injected 
radioactive atoms recovered in the sample. (Of course, no appreciable 
part of the injected substance must have been transferred from the 
blood to other parts of the body, ) 

The fact that it is practically unnecessary to interfere with the 
normal life of the test animal is of importance for many investiga- 
tions, especially those of a pharmacodynamic nature. We may men- 



ISOTOPES — ATEN AND HEYN 227 

tion here an investigation into the rate of absorption of insulin which 
is injected periodically under the skin of sufferers from diabetes. It is 
often desirable to restrict the number of injections and it is therefore 
favorable if the insulin is retained for a relatively long time near the 
point of injection, or stored there as it were, and only slowly taken 
up in the circulation. By building a radioactive atom (radioactive 
iodine) into the molecule of three kinds of insulin, viz., "ordinary" 
insulin, globine insulin, and protamine-zinc insulin, and measuring 
from time to time the decrease of radioactivity at the point of injection, 
it has been possible to determine that the rate of absorption of the 
three kinds of insulin in the body decreases in the order given above. 

Exchange processes. — Although also in chemistry and technology 
numerous processes play a part where an exchange of identical particles 
occurs — we mention only autodiffusion, e. g., the diffusion of lead 
atoms in lead — physiology is the most prominent field for such ex- 
changes. One of the most striking examples is the continuous ex- 
change of the building materials of the body. This has been studied 
in detail with phosphorus in the form of various compounds, with the 
help of radioactive phosphorus, which lends itself so well for such 
experiments. Particularly Hevesy has done a great deal of these in- 
vestigations. It has been established that phosphorus does not remain 
permanently bound in any constituent of the body. The exchange 
takes place most rapidly between the blood and various organs: of 
the phosphate ions present in the blood at a given moment after 2 hours, 
only 2 percent are still present, the rest having been exchanged. In 
the liver and kidneys, too, there is a rapid renewal, but also in the bones 
and even in the brain the phosphorus is in course of time renewed, 
though at a much slower rate. The parts of the body that take least 
part in the continual exchange are the teeth: after 250 days only 1 
percent of the pliosphorus in the dental enamel is renewed. 

In a certain case it is not so much a matter of exchange as one of 
selective assimilation of substances by certain constituents of the body, 
namely where the exchange leads, as it were, to a credit balance for 
that part of the body. A striking example is the assimilation of iodine 
by the thyroid gland. With the help of a radioactive iodine isotope it 
has been determined that, out of an extra amount of iodine admin- 
istered in the food, after 1 or 2 days a healthy person has stored up in 
the thyroid gland about 3 percent, whereas a sufferer from goitre stores 
up 30 percent or more. (See fig. 1.) In certain cases of cancer of the 
thyroid gland the radioactive iodine was found to be accumulated not 
in the cancer tissue but in the healthy tissue. (Thus we again arrive 
at the problems referred to under "localization.") Somewhat similar 
phenomena are found in the case of the assimilation of radioactive 
strontium in the blood and in the bones. It has been possible not only 



228 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947 

to determine how this process is retarded, for instance, by rickets and 
then promoted by the administration of vitamin D, and how it is even 
led in the opposite direction by Basedow's disease, but it has also been 
possible to study the finer distribution of the strontium assimilated: 
the strontium was found to accumulate in the hard bone tissue, and in 
the case of bone cancer it showed a preference for the cancer tissue and 
possible metastases thereof. Though straying from our subject, it 
should be pointed out that this last case may be of value to the doctor 
not only diagnostically but also therapeutically. Given a sufficiently 




i 2 3 4 5d 

FiGUEE 1. — The assimilation of iodine in the thyroid gland. Along the abscissa is 
the number of days which has elapsed after tlie administration of a known extra 
amount of iodine in food ; along the ordinate the percentage of this amount found 
in the thyroid gland as measured by means of radioactive iodine : a, for healthy 
persons; &, with benign goitre; c, with Basedow's disease; d, upon defective 
functioning of the thyroid gland (myxoedema). (From J. G. Hamilton, Appli- 
cation of radioactive tracers to biology and medicine, Journ. Appl. Phys., vol. 12, 
pp. 440-460, 1941.) 

high concentration the radiation of a radioactive kind of atom has a 
destructive effect on the cancer tissue. If the radiating substance is 
selectively attracted by the cancer cells, as strontium by bone cancer, 
this may eventually serve as the basis of a very effective therapeutic 
treatment. On the other hand, for physiological applications of 
radioactive isotopes as indicators it is a general rule that the destructive 
effect of the radiation must be avoided by keeping the concentrations of 
the radioactive isotopes sufficiently small. 

We shall leave it at these examples. They are sufficient to give the 
reader an impression of what can be achieved with the tracer method 
in research work and routine investigation, a method for which uses are 
to be found in ever-increasing numbers and in even wider fields. 



Smithsonian Report. 1947. — Aten and Heyn 



Plate 1 




I. Radiogram of tin witii a radiouftive lead isotope (thorium B) dej)osited at the 
grain boundaries of the polvcrvstalline metal. Magnified about .six times. 
(From G. Tammann and G. Bahdel, Zeitschr. Metallk., vol. 25, p. 154, 1933.) 



J .§: .a ii fi * 



, >, 



Radiograms of a metal surface after it has been rubbed with a piece of metal 
containing a radioactive component. The radioactivity of the siu'face shows 
there had been a transfer of material. This explains to a large extent the 
friction set up when one surface slides over another. The illustration relates 
to the friction of lead on steel: a, with no lul)ricant; b, with lubricant. Magni- 
hed about six times. (From J. N. Gregorv, Nature (London), vol. 157, p. 444, 
1946.) 



SILICONES— A NEW CONTINENT IN THE WORLD OF 

CHEMISTRY 1 



By S. L. Bass 

Assistant General Manager, Dow Corning Corporation 
Midland, Mich. 



[With 3 plates] 



When Columbus started out, the coast of Europe was well known 
and the coast of China had been explored. He assumed, therefore, that 
by sailing west from Europe he would reach the coast of China. No 
one knew then that a great continent lay between Europe and Asia. 

The same condition was, until quite recently, true in the chemical 
world. Men had known about inorganic materials such as ceramics, 
glass, and metals for centuries. They had known of organic mate- 
rials based principally upon carbon and its compounds for genera- 
tions and had developed thousands of synthetic organic materials 
in the more recent past. But no one knew that between these two 
fields lay a new chemical continent of semi-inorganic materials known 
today as silicones. Organic chemists started to explore the simple 
organo-silicon compounds some 50 years ago. It was not until the 
early 1930's however, when chemists at the Corning Glass Works 
started to investigate the organo-silicon oxide high polymers that the 
importance of this new chemical continent began to appear. 

Like glasses and the mineral silicates, of which fibrous glass, mica, 
and asbestos are familiar forms of heat-resistant insulating materials, 
the silicones also are derived from silica. Chemically, the silicones, 
like glass and the mineral silicates, are built upon a heat-stable skele- 
tal structure of silicon atoms joined to each other through oxygen 
atoms. In the silicones, however, each silicon atom has attached to 
it one or more organic groups. 

THE SILICONE MOLECULE ' 

Sand is the source of silicones, just as it is of glass. However, in- 
stead of its being combined with inorganic oxides from lime and soda, 
it is altered rather radically by being put through a series of chemi- 

* Reprinted by permission from Electrical Engineering, vol. 66, No. 4, April 1947. 

229 



230 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947 

cal processes. A grain of sand is, in effect, a complex molecule of 
silica. Each silicon atom is linked to four oxygen atoms which in 
turn link it with other silicon atoms. In making silicones, part of 
those oxygen atoms are replaced by organic hydrocarbon groups de- 
rived from coal or oil. 

This is a complex process which is interesting primarily to chem- 
ists. The job of silicone chemists, and, to no little extent, their art, 
is so to "tailor" the high-polymeric organo-silicon oxide molecules 
that a variety of products, each designed to meet specific use require- 
ments, can be produced. 

Already a large group of new engineering materials have been 
derived from sand. These materials are available in a wide variety 
of physical forms. They include oils, compounds having a grease- 
like consistency, resins for heat-resistant enamels, laminates and mold- 
ing plastics, and even a semi-inorganic rubber called "Silastic." In 
this age of chemical marvels, when people expect the chemist to pull 
new and ever more astounding marvels from under his hat, the pro- 
duction of rubber from sand is among the more astounding accom- 
plishments of chemistry. 

HEAT STABILITY 

All these silicone products are characterized by a higher order of 
stability to heat and by greater resistance to moisture than conven- 
tional organic materials in the same physical forms. This heat stability 
and the suitability of silicone compounds for use in electrical insula- 
tion are inherent in their chemical structure. In the silicones, only 
two kinds of chemical bonds, the Si-O-Si and the C-Si bonds, are 
significant. The silicon-oxygen-silicon bonds are extremely stable to 
heat, as one would expect from the fact that these are the same bonds 
which exist in the mineral silicates. The carbon-silicon bonds also 
have a higher order of heat stability and greater resistance to oxida- 
tion than the carbon-to-carbon bonds which are basic in organic 
materials. 

As a consequence of this greater heat stability, the silicone resins are 
natural complements to fibrous glass, mica, and asbestos insulating 
materials. The silicone resins provide the heat-resistant resinous di- 
electric necessary to bond these materials together. They also bond 
the insulating materials to the copper and steel used in building elec- 
tric equipment. This bond is highly resistant to heat. It not only 
holds the insulation together, but also excludes moisture even after 
long exposure to high temperatures, as rigorous laboratory tests have 
shown. Thus, through the use of silicones together with inorganic 
insulating materials, a new type of electrical insulation has become 
available. This new class — silicone insulation — is almost immune to 



Smithsonian Ref>ort. 1947. — Bas 



Plate 1 




1. ISIodel of a segment of a linear methyl silicone molecule. 




2. The water-repellent nature of the silicones. Radio coil forms made water- 
repellent with silicone treatment. Their surfaces are nonconducting under 

iiKiisf ure-c()ii(lensiiii); condilioiis. 



Smithsonian Report. 1947. — Bass 



Plate 2 




1. Silicone-insulated test motors are operated alternately at temperatures up to 
310 degrees centigrade and exposed to 100 percent relative humidity. Tests 
show that moisture is excluded after thousands of hours of thermal aging. 




Left, rl:t>^ i; iiiMilalcd niotdr (lulvA alti'i .j,7(i() liour.-- at 200 deiirci'.-- centigi-aiie; 
right, silicone-insulated motor failed after 5,178 hours at 300 degrees centigrade. 
Both windings look about alike and show at)Out the same degree of deteriora- 
tion. The class B motor caught fire on failure, while the silicone-insulated motor 
failed because of oxidation of the copper. . 




03 O 






Eh 




SILICONES — BASS 231 

heat and moisture, the principal enemies which conspire to reduce the 
life of electric equi^jment. 

WATER REPELLENT 

In addition to heat stability, other useful properties are inherent in 
the silicone chemical structure. All silicones are water repellent, and 
the methyl silicones are particularly so. The methyl silicone oils are 
long-chain structures of silicon atoms carrying two methyl groups 
each. The silicon atoms are joined to each other through an oxygen 
atom, the hydrocarbon portion of the molecule acting like a paraflinic 
umbrella for the rest of the molecule. Applied to the surfaces of glass 
or ceramic insulators, the silicon-oxygen-silicon portion of the mole- 
cule attaches itself to the surface, leaving the hydrocarbon portion 
upward. When water or moisture condenses on this surface, it does 
not do so in a continuous film, as in the case of an untreated glass 
surface, but in distinct droplets. This silicone treatment of insulators 
in radio sets, for example, prevents leakages across the surface because 
no continuous film of moisture forms a conducting path. 

The waterproof property of silicones was utilized in a translucent 
and nonmeltable silicone paste, which proved to be quite essential to 
the proper operation of aircraft ignition systems and disconnectible 
joints in radar systems during the war. It served as an auxiliary 
dielectric and waterproofing seal for the ignition cable insulation 
where it entered the spark plug wells and magneto plugs of military 
aircraft. It prevented condensation of moisture at these points and 
kept the ignition system from being short-circuited. Another water- 
repellent application of silicone oils was initiated during the war and 
is still being developed — the production of a water-repellent filler 
made of fine glass fibers for use in life jackets and as thermal insulation. 

STABLE VISCOSITY 

One of the fundamental properties of long-chain silicone molecules 
is their resistance to associating with each other in ordered arrange- 
ment at low temperatures. These silicone fluids are characterized by 
an exceptionally flat viscosity-temperature slope. They do not thin 
out at elevated temperatures or thicken at low temperatures to so 
great an extent as do the petroleum fluids. Another manifestation 
of this property is found in the flexibility and resilience of silicone 
rubber at low temperatures. As a matter of fact, this silicone product 
retains its flexibility at temperatures only slightly above that of dry ice. 
Because of its heat resistance it is useful at temperatures up to 200° 
centigrade. It is, therefore, useful over a wider range of temperature 
than any other material having rubberlike properties. 

777488—48 18 



232 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947 

INCOMPATIBLE WITH ORGANIC PLASTICS 

Another useful property inherent in the fact that silicones are high- 
polymer molecules is their incompatibility with other plastic materials. 
A silicone fluid applied as a very dilute water emulsion spreads over the 
metal surface of dies to form an extremely thin film to which hot 
plastics and synthetic rubbers do not adhere. This property is of gieat 
value in the manufacture of tires and other molded-rubber articles. 
It is also useful in the molding of other plastic materials. 

In the silicone fluids, various combinations of properties often lead 
to unexpected uses. For example, their incompatibility together with 
their surface effects at the interfaces of oil-air systems has been utilized 
to prevent the foaming of crankcase oils. Traces of silicone oil in 
petroleum oil are sufficient to prevent foaming. 

Similarly, in aqueous systems foaming is often a serious and costly 
problem. A new silicone compound has recently been developed to 
prevent the foaming of aqueous systems or to kill foams once they have 
been formed. This product is effective at very high dilutions, varying 
from 1 to 100 parts per million. 

In England the natural compressibility of certain silicon fluids has 
been utilized in a "liquid spring" hydraulic shock absorber that has 
been developed for use in aircraft landing gear. As the compressibil- 
ity of the silicone fluids is 15 to 25 percent greater than petroleum fluids, 
the makers believe that the landing of heavier aircraft on present 
fields may be possible without increasing the size or weight of the 
landing gear. 

The flat viscosity-temperature slope of silicone fluids together with 
their high flash point has led to an extensive study of their use as hy- 
draulic fluids in aircraft by the Naval Research Laboratory, Wash- 
ington, D. C. 

This same flat viscosity-temperature slope of silicone fluids together 
with their shear resistance has led to the development of a torsional 
vibration damper for automotive crankshafts. In this device a free- 
wheeling flywheel floats in a film of silicone oil which damj)s any 
torsional vibration in the crankshaft. 

In these applications some well-known engineering principles have 
been made practical for the first time. Correct in theory, these prin- 
ciples were not practicable until silicones were developed and proved 
to have the properties necessary to reduce theory to practice. 

ECONOMY 

There are very few established uses for silicone products which do 
not result in a considerable saving of time and money. An example 
is the speeding up of production and the reduction of rejects through 
the use of a silicone mold release in rubber molding. Silicone resins 



SILICONES — BASS 233 

may be used in formulating a more practical enamel for sheet steel 
used in domestic stoves. Another example is the saving of materials 
and the reduction of repair time in electric equipment which result 
from the use of silicone electrical insulating materials. 

It is probable that the price history of most important new engineer- 
ing materials will be repeated in the silicones. As volume increases, 
production costs should decrease, opening new fields of usefulness and 
larger volume markets. 

FUTURE OF SILICONES 

In this age of extremely high and low temperature operation, the 
unusual properties of silicone materials probably will become increas- 
ingly important. The last 21^ years already have demonstrated this 
with respect to the use of silicone insulation for electric apparatus. 
Actual tests of silicone-insulated electric equipment under severe and 
accelerated conditions of heat and moisture have shown that such 
equipment is capable of operating hundreds of times longer than con- 
ventional insulating materials. Manufacturers of motors, transform- 
ers, contactor coils, and olher electric equipment are beginning already 
to standarize on silicone insulation in their lines. Maintenance and 
repair shops are rewinding an increasing number of motors with sili- 
cone insulation. 

The silicone continent, nevertheless, is just beginning to be explored, 
and many years will be required to disclose the full extent of it. 

REFERENCES 

Baker, E. B., Barbt, A. J., and Hunteb, M. J. 

1946. Dielectric constants of dimethyl siloxane polymers. Ind. and Eng. 
Chem., vol. .38, p. 1117, November. 
Bass, S. L., Hyde, J. F., Brixton, E. C, and McGregor, R. R. 

1944. Silicones, high polymeric substances. Modern Plastics, vol. 21, p. 124. 

November. 

COLLINGS, W. R. 

1946. Silicones as new engineering materials. Trans. Amer. Inst. Chem. 

Eng., vol. 42, No. 3, p. 455, June. 
DeKiep, J., Hn-L, L. R., and Moses, G. L. 

1945. The application of silicone resins to insulation for electric machinery. 

Amer. Inst. Electr. Eng., Trans., vol. 64. pp. 94-98, March. 
Grant. George, III, Kauppi, T. A., and Mosks, G. L. 

1947. Investigation of silicone insulation on high-temperature railway 

motor. Amer. Inst. Electr. Eng., Trans., vol. 66, August. 
Johannson, O. K., and Toeok, JuLnjs J. 

1946. The use of liquid dimefhylsilicones to produce water-repellent surfaces 

on glass insulator bodies. Proc. Inst. Radio Eng., vol. 34, No. 5, p. 296, 
May. 



234 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947 

Kauppi, T. a., Gr.\nt, Geoege, Moses, G. L., and Hoesell, R. F. 

1945. Silicone insulation proved by test. Westinghouse Eng., vol. 5, No. 5, 
pp. 135-140, September. 
Kauppi, T. A., and Moses, G. L. 

1945. Organo-silicon compounds for insulating electric machines. Amer. 

Inst. Electr. Eng., Trans., vol. 64, pp. 90-93, March. 
Kelborne, C. E, 

1946. Silicone insulation. Machine Design, vol. 18, No. S, pp. 109-113, August. 
Moses, G. L. 

1944. New silicone resins boost insulation temperature limits. Westinghouse 

Eng., vol. 4, No. 5, pp. 138-141, September. 
MosES, Graham Lee, and Toeok, Juuus .1. 

1946. Silicone-resin-treated magnet coils. Amer. Inst. Electr. Eng., Trans., 
vol. 65, pp. 412^16, July. 
Westinghouse Electeic Corporation. 

1945. Silicones — miracle of molecule engineering. Westinghouse Eng., vol. 

5, No. 5, pp. 130-134, September. 



NEW PEODUCTS OF THE PETKOLEUM INDUSTRY 



By Hugh W. Field 
The Atlantic Refining Co. 



The headlines of the Nation's newspapers have been filled with 
accounts of the critical reconversion problems of most of our great in- 
dustries. The petroleum industry, however, has been conspicuously 
quiet, yet it is well known that the wartime developments in this indus- 
try were tremendous. It is known that our forces, armed with mech- 
anized equipment of a quality vastly superior to that of our enemies, 
never lacked the all-necessary petroleum supplies either in quality or 
quantity to do the critical job at hand. Very little is generally known 
of the nature of these war-born advances in petroleum refineries and 
their incorporation into a peacetime economy at a speed and efficiency 
that restored the motorist to a prewar basis almost overnight and 
will, we believe, shortly raise the standard of enjoyment of petroleum 
products well beyond all preconceived levels. 

It is the purpose of this discourse to take you through the gates of 
the refinery and give you a first-hand glimpse of what has been hap- 
pening during the last decade. The operations of petroleum refining 
have changed from those involving mainly rovigh physical separa- 
tion by distillation to a complex well-integrated series of physical 
and chemical manufacturing operations involving the highest levels 
of modern chemistry and chemical engineering. 

WHY THE PETROLEUM INDUSTRY GREW 

In order to get a clear understanding of what has happened in 
our industry, it is necessary to understand why it has happened, and 
to accomplish this we will do well to look back into history to trace 
the development pattern. Fortunately, our browsing through history 
will not take long because the industry does not have much history 
as measured by years. Most of the significant items have occurred 
within the lifetime of tliose of us who are old enouah to vote. 



* Presented hefore The FrankUn Institute, December 18, 194G. Reprinted by permission 
from the Journal of The Frunlcliu Institute, vol. 243, No, 2, February 1947. 

235 



236 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947 

The petroleum industry has had its real growth along with two 
other young industrial giants, the automotive industry and the avia- 
tion industry. Further, although many of the new operations and 
products which will come into our story later seem to have little or 
nothing to do with either of these industries, the responsibility for 
much of what has happened is closely tied with their growth. It all 
began a little over 20 years ago when the automobile-engine designers 
stopped worrying about whether their engines would start and con- 
tinue to run, and began to be worried by their sales departments for 



50- 



40 



m 

UJ 

o 30 

UJ 

cr 
2 2 



DEVELOPED 
POWER 




POWER 
REQUIRED 



LEVEL 



30 40 50 60 
CAR SPEED - MPH 

FlQUBE 1. 



80 



promotional stories along the line of get-away, pick-up, hill-climbing 
ability, top speed, and so on. These designers studied their engines 
and their cars and found many interesting facts. Let us look into 
a few of these. 

Figure 1 is a plot of horsepower against car speed for a typical 
car of the time operating in high gear. The curve depicts developed 
power as delivered to the rear wheels plotted against car speed. The 
straight lines approximate power required to move the car at corres- 
ponding speeds for level-road operation and for hill-climbing a reason- 
able grade. All conditions of wind, fuel quality, and loading were 
constant. It can be seen that this car has a top speed of 60 miles 
per hour on the level and has a reasonable amount of excess power for 
acceleration between the speed ranges of 15 to 60 miles per hour. 
However, on the hill the car speed will drop off to a top of 40 miles 



PETROLEUM — FIELD 



237 



per hour and will have practically no high-gear acceleration at lower 
speeds. 

Figure 2 is the same basic plot with one additional curve, the de- 
veloped-power curve for the same car with the same engine modified 
only by an increase in compression ratio from say 5.0 to 1 to a ratio 
of 6.0 to 1 — a minor design change. Now the car has a top speed of 
TO miles per hour on the level road and has good acceleration in the 
broader range of 10-60 miles per hour. More important, its hill- 
climbing ability is tremendously improved. On the same hill it can 
maintain a top speed of 55 miles per hour and below this speed shows 




20 30 40 50 

CAR SPEED -MPH 
Figure 2. 

acceleration characteristics approximately as good as the previous 
model showed on the level road. Here was a direction for the engine 
designer to go and he started off that way and moved rapidly until he 
was stopped short by the fact that at the higher compression ratios his 
engines began to knock badly under load, particularly after the com- 
bustion chambers became fouled with the carbonaceous deposits which 
inevitably appear after several thousand miles of operation. 

Now let us look at what was happening in the refinery during this 
time. Initially, gasoline was the very volatile hydrocarbon material 
"topped" from crude oil prior to running for the kerosene fraction used 
extensively for cooking and illuminating purposes. The demands of 
the automobile for this gasoline rapidly took it out of the byproduct 
classification and the refiner was seeking ways and means of increasing 



238 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947 

gasoline production. He had discovered the thermal "cracking" 
process with which, by the use of heat and pressure, he could convert a 
large portion of the fraction of crude oil between the kerosene and the 
lubricating oil cuts into gasoline. But this "cracked" gasoline fell 
into ill repute, largely because the refiner had not learned to finish it 
in such a fashion that it would not gum in the engine, resulting in 
sticking valves with attendant poor operation. 

A comparison of notes by the refiner and the automobile designer 
brought out fundamental information which initiated the series of de- 
velopments with which we are presently concerned. This information 
was that the knocking tendency of the higher compression automobile 
engine could be materially reduced or in some cases entirely eliminated 
by the use of the heretofore disfavored cracked gasoline in preference 
to the previously used straight-run gasoline, even though this straight- 
run material be cut to the extremely light old-time so-called high-test 
grade. Here was chemical synthesis of hydrocarbons appearing for 
the first time because very rough test methods, as then developed, 
showed that the cracked gasolines contained substantial quantities of 
olefins and aromatics, whereas the original crude oil contains few if 
any of these types of hydrocarbons. As a matter of interest, the 
earliest method of estimating the antiknock characteristics of motor 
gasoline came into being at this time. It matched the antiknock 
tendency of the fuel against known mixtures of benzol and Pennsyl- 
vania straight-run gasoline in a small single-cylinder laboratory engine 
and gave the results in terms of "benzol equivalent." 

Two parallel series of developments were thus started in the refinery 
as a result of the move by the engine designers to higher compression 
motors. One series was aimed at removing or otherwise taking care 
of the then prevalent deficiencies of cracked gasoline with respect to 
gum-forming tendencies, chemical instability, and offensive odor. 
Processes to remove the gummy materials, soon identified principally 
as diolefins, from the cracked gasoline took the form of treatment with 
sulfuric acid and vapor phase treatment over activated fuller's earth. 
Further, various processes were developed to convert the malodorous 
mercaptans, which appeared in the gasoline as a result of an analogous 
cracking of sulfur compounds in the heavier cracking stock, into 
sweet-smelling alkyl disulphides, acceptable both to the public and 
to the motors. The result of these developments was the assumption 
by cracked gasoline of its rightful place as a desirable and important 
component of motor gasoline. 

The other series of developments which raced ahead at this time 
had to do with the production of cracked gasoline itself. Literally 
scores of thermal cracking processes and variations thereof were 
invented and many of them were patented. As special methods of 
fabrication were developed and new steel alloys able to stand high 



PETROLEUM — FIELD 239 

temperature for long periods became available, thermal cracking op- 
erations were pressed to higher and higher conditions of severity 
with respect to pressure and temperature. The severe cracking con- 
ditions produced more marked improvement in the hydrocarbon 
structure of the cracked gasoline. It had better antiknock character- 
istics. 

At this point in our historical review the concept of "octane num- 
ber" should be established. The previously used "benzol equivalent" 
was proving to be unreliable and not suflficiently reproducible for a 
test of a property which was becoming such an important char- 
acteristic of automobile gasoline. Benzol was so high in antiknock 
that it was too sensitive a blending agent and Pennsylvania straight- 
run gasoline, the zero of the scale by definition, was not invariable and 
reproducible. The octane-number scale was substituted instead and 
used as its "100" the chemical compound 2,2,4 trimethylpentane (iso- 
octane) , and as its "0" normal heptane. This scale was reproducible 
by blending these compounds and when coupled with the improve- 
ment and standardization of the test engine resulted in a more satis- 
factory fuel-rating procedure than had been heretofore available. 

In the refineries of the country, aided by the advances in steel metal- 
lurgy, the antiknock characteristics of motor gasolines were being 
pushed to higher and higher levels as new units came on stream. 
Further, the use of additives for improvement of antiknock received 
extensive investigation. Various organic amino compounds were 
used with indiiferent success to increase octane number. Iron and 
nickel carbonyls were more successful from the octane-number im- 
provement standpoint but caused objectionable rust deposits within 
the engine. Finally, tetraethyl lead was discovered, proved satis- 
factory, and extensive manufacturing facilities were put into oper- 
ation to help further the improvement in engine and fuel perform- 
ance. 

The "octane race" of the thirties was on in dead earnest. Auto- 
motive-engine designers moved their compression ratios higher and 
higher to get mucli more power and performance out of smaller en- 
gines. Figure 3 gives an interesting comparison for a representative 
passenger automobile. From this it can be seen that during the thirties 
the performance characteristics of the typical passenger car of ap- 
proximately the same total weight improved considerably as a result 
primarily of the increase in compression ratio and the improvement 
in the quality of the motor fuel available for use in the higher com- 
pression engine. 

At this point in our technical historical study, the issues become 
somewhat obscure as so frequently happens whenever history is re- 
viewed, whether it be the history of people, cities, or nations. The 
automobile-engine designer had slowed in his advance to higher 



240 



ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 194 7 



compression ratio due to the fact that the motoring public was reason- 
ably happy, if not somewhat unsafe, with the car performance being 
obtained. Added to this are the very practical facts that design diffi- 
culties were being encountered due to the necessity of allowing room 
in the engine head above the piston at the top of its stroke for the 
functioning of two valves and a spark plug and due also to a tendency 
to rough operation at high compression. However, the petroleum 
engineer was now in the saddle. He had many new processes all 
lined up to produce, and the refiner was now being urged by his sales- 
promotion people to produce qualities in gasoline that could be talked 



YEAR 


CAR 


ENGINE 


GASOLINE 


WEIGHT 
LBS. 


COMPRESSION 
RATIO 


BRAKE 
HORSEPOWER 


OCTANE NO. 

REGULAR GRADE 

AVERAGE U.S. 


1930 


2930 


5.15 


64 


60 


1939 


2934 


6.32 


85 


7! 



FiGUBE 3. 

about. The result was that the petroleum refiners began to run races 
between themselves to produce gasoline with qualities outstripping 
their competitors in spite of the fact that scarcely any automobile 
engine could recognize differences in antiknock above its basic octane 
requirement. At the time, this race was scientifically invigorating but 
economically rather silly. In retrospect however, it was probably 
one of the best things that ever happened to our country in that it 
set the fundamental pattern for a technology that produced, during 
World War II, a stupendous tonnage of synthetic organic chemicals 
without which the war would have stretched through a much longer 
and more burdensome period. 

EFFECT OF ENGINE AND FUEL DEVELOPMENT ON AUTOMOBILE 

DESIGN 

Before proceeding further with the later developments in motor-fuel 
processing it will be well to stop to examine, the results of all this 



PETROLEUM — FIELD 241 

engine and fuel development work on the other parts of the automo- 
bile and on petroleum-product requirements for these parts. In- 
creasing the power output of the engines produced greater loads on 
the engine connecting rod and main bearings with the result that many 
engine designers developed engines in which alloys of cadmium-silver 
and copper-lead were used for bearings instead of the conventional tin- 
lead (babbitt) which had been used heretofore. From the standpoint 
of bearing loads these materials were excellent but they immediately 
gave the petroleum refiners many headaches. The sulfur compounds 
present in the lubricating oil, the condensate from combustion cham- 
ber "blow-by" to the crankcase, and the acids produced by normal 
oxidation of the lubricating oil caused severe and rapid bearing dete- 
rioration. The corrosion attacked the lead and cadmium in these bear- 
ings, resulting in weakening of the bearing alloy, high wear, and early 
noisy operation of the engine. 

Protection of these bearing materials was critical and the challenge 
to the petroleum research laboratories started a new trend in lubricat- 
ing-oil development. This trend has resulted in the progressive addi- 
tion to lubricating oils of a long series of additives. Initially additives 
were used to take care of bearing-corrosion problems. Later, additives 
were developed to add higher film strength characteristics. Presently, 
additives are being incorporated to furnish, in addition to the pre- 
vious benefits, properties to prevent build-up of sludge deposits in the 
crankcase and to increase engine life heretofore shortened by internal 
rusting between periods of operation. 

As engines increased in power and the streamlining of automobiles 
resulted in smaller wheels and lower floorboards, a redesign of the dif- 
ferential drive in the rear axle came about in efforts to lower the drive- 
shaft to avoid the necessity for a tunnel in the rear floor. This gave 
rise to the use of hypoid gearing to drop the driveshaft below the cen- 
ter line of the rear axle. Hypoid gearing worked out very admirably 
from the standpoint of chassis design but necessitated an extensive 
amount of research in petroleum laboratories to develop a rear-axle 
lubricant for these new-type gears. The previous type of gearing, 
namely, spiral bevel gears, operated on the principle of rolling fric- 
tion and a conventional heavy lubricant protected the faces of the gear 
teeth quite satisfactorily. The hypoid gear, on the other hand, oper- 
ates on the principle of sliding friction and conventional lubricants 
could not give protection, with the result that the hypoid rear axles 
were scuffing severely because of failure of the oil to stay between the 
gear teeth. By the use of additives especially developed for the pur- 
pose, the oil companies quite promptly were able to furnish lubricants 
which had the proper combination of surface tension and wetting 
properties to stay in place on the gear teeth of heavily loaded hypoid 
gears. 



242 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947 

The smaller wheels previously mentioned, the higher speeds result- 
ing from greater engine power, and the general adoption of internal 
expanding four-wheel brakes raised another problem for the petroleum 
industry in lubricating the wheel bearings. The wheels were turning 
faster, creating higher operating temperatures in the bearing and 
greater centrifugal force which tended to throw the grease out of the 
bearings through the oil-retaining ring into the braking system to 
cause malfunctioning of the brakes. Grease compounding quickly re- 
ceived a complete overhauling in order to furnish a wheel-bearing 
lubricant which would maintain its consistency at high temperatures 
of operation, neither separating into oil and soap with resultant loss of 
oil and clogging of the bearing with soap, nor changing in physical 
characteristics as the temperature increased to a point where the grease 
would leave the bearing as the result of excessive softness. 

General chassis lubricants also had to be restudied. All the pre- 
viously mentioned developments were making cars run with less noise. 
Changes in spring-hanger design had increased the bearing loads on 
spring shackles so that there was an increased tendency for the shackles 
to squeak and with less noise competition the squeaks were more 
noticeable. New chassis lubricants were developed which could be 
pumped readily by the automatic chassis-lubricating equipment being 
installed in the service stations and would stay between the bearing 
surfaces in spite of heavy impact loading and the tendency for 
splashed water from the highway to wash this grease away. This 
particular development, incidentally, is probably one of the most 
ingenious feats of compounding that the industry has accomplished 
and is probably the least known generally. 

CHANGING PETROLEUM REQUIREMENTS OTHER THAN AUTOMOTIVE 

During this period under discussion the automobile, although acting 
as a pacesetter, was not the only requirement which was causing rapid 
changes in petroleum technology. The aviation industry, which 
had even more to gain from power from smaller engines, was stepping 
out ahead in requirements for high octane, high chemical stability fuel. 
The aviation-engine designer increased compression ratio with the 
attendant advantages previously discussed, reached the mechanical 
limitation to high compression posed by necessity for valve and spark 
plug clearances and engine roughness, and then moved on to even 
higher levels in antiknock requirements by adopting the principle of 
supercharging. 

The supercharging approach to this problem is interesting and 
deserves further examination. If compression ratio cannot be in- 
creased readily, another way to get the same effect from a given engine 
is to pack more air and fuel into the cylinders by forcing it in under 



PETROLEUM — FIELD 243 

external pressure, rather than letting the engine draw it in by the 
vacuum created on the suction stroke. This development, started 
mildly by the automobile designer and adapted mainly for racing-car 
engines, really went ahead at a tremendous pace when the aviation- 
engine designers started to use it. While the superchargers built for 
racing-car engines operated with only a few inches of water "boost 
pressure," the aviation-engine designer moved ahead to the point 
where, during World War II, combat aircraft equipped with exhaust- 
driven turbo superchargers actually delivered a boost pressure in the 
range of 60" of mercury or about 2 atmospheres increase. This de- 
velopment threw a tremendous burden on the petroleum industry 
for high antiknock fuel and, as will be mentioned later, the industry 
responded by adapting their newer processes and developing other 
specialized processes in order to produce the required volumes of 
aviation gasoline having performance characteristics well in excess of 
100 octane. 

Another type of engine was becoming important and giving the 
petroleum research laboratories critical problems to solve. This was 
the Diesel engine initially developed for propelling ships, later for 
long-distance truck hauling, and now becoming very important as 
a source of power for railway locomotives. The Diesel engine, unlike 
the gasoline engine, does not depend on a spark for ignition but de- 
pends on autoignition induced by the heat and pressure created by 
the compression stroke of the piston. It is a fact that an operating 
cycle of this type necessitates a chemical composition of the fuel dis- 
tinctly different from the type of compounds which are included in 
motor gasoline and to a greater extent in aviation gasoline to improve 
antiknock characteristics. The latter have a decidedly deleterious 
effect on the starting and ignition qualities of the Diesel fuel, par- 
ticularly for high-speed truck and railway Diesel engines. Thus a 
technical contrast is presented in which the best Diesel fuel was found 
to be a carefully refined fraction obtained directly from high-grade 
crude oil, whereas high-grade motor and aviation gasolines consist 
of a blend of various fractions of crude oil molecularly rearranged by 
severe thermal and catalytic cracking together with synthetic prod- 
ucts of complicated structure obtained from alkylation, polymeriza- 
tion, etc. 

Most of the comments made with respect to automobile-engine lubri- 
cating oil hold for lubricating the Diesel engine, except that whatever 
is done to the oil to improve its inherent characteristics must be 
greatly emphasized for the Diesel. Most high-speed Diesels run under 
much more severe conditions of loading, combustion roughness, and 
high-temperature operation than most automobile engines. 

In industrial fields a new tempo of development has been evident. 



244 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947 

Machine tools, industrial machinery, electrical equipment, heavy fuel 
oil consuming equipment, all have had their speeds, loads, and re- 
quirements for continuity of operation increased at a rapid pace. 
The petroleum industry has conducted research successfully to fur- 
nish petroleum products required to meet these demands. Complete 
details on the many ramifications of the changes in the petroleum 
industry's industrial requirements have no place in this review, but 
the order of magnitude of changes has been of the same degree as that 
depicted for automotive and aviation industries. 

NEW PROCESSES WHICH hEAI) TO NEW PRODUCTS 

In 1939 the writer was requested to present to the Refining Division 
of the American Petroleum Institute a paper which attempted to 
systematize and catalog the many new processes which were under 
development at that time. This paper was somewhat whimsically 
entitled "Petroleum-ization — 1940" - since it dealt with such previously 
little-known or unused processes as dehydrogenation, isomerization, 
polymerization, aromatization, alkylation, etc. The paper attempted 
to place these various new processes on the checkerboard of petroleum 
refining to determine which ones were competitive, which were com- 
plementary, and which should be considered for use as various refinery 
situations arose. Owing to the undeveloped state of some of these 
processes at that time, a large amount of forecasting based on personal 
opinion was woven into the pattern presented. However, subsequent 
events, specifically the wai , forced the hasty commercialization of most 
of these processes substantially along the lines predicted and since this 
pattern is fundamental to our examination of new products it is 
presented here. 

Definitions and descriptions. — A certain number of definitions and 
descriptions will be useful in our study of the situation; and if these 
definitions do not agree exactly with the organic textbook, it should be 
remembered that they were drafted for "petroleum-ization" rather 
than for the broad field of general organic chemistry. 

Catalyst. — A catalyst can be defined as a substance which, although 
present during a chemical reaction, apparently does not enter into the 
reaction but causes, by its presence, a change in the conditions under 
which that reaction occurs. Thus catalytic reactions offer a pos- 
sibility for product control by selective acceleration of certain reac- 
tions which, in the opinion of many, is the most important phase of 
this new refining technique. 

B-ydrogenation. — The hydrogenation process adds hydrogen to the 
hydrocarbon molecule. Hydrogenation may be either nondestructive 
or destructive. In the former, hydrogen is added to the molecule 



2 Proc. 20tli Ann. Meet. Amer. Petroleum Inst., vol. 20, No. 3, pp. 65-71, 1939. 



PETROLEUM — FIELD 245 

only if, and where, imsaturation with respect to hydrogen exists ; thus 
the boiling range of the product is substantially the same as that of 
the charge to the process. In the latter, operations are carried out 
under conditions which result in rupture of some of the hydrocarbon 
chains (cracking), the hydrogen adding on, in general, where the 
breaks in the chain have occurred. A lowering of boiling range 
generally results from this type of hydrogenation, the degree of 
change depending on the operating conditions. Nondestructive hy- 
drogenation is generally a low-temperature, low-pressure operation, 
whereas destructive hydrogenation operates at high temperature and 
high pressure. Catalysts are employed in almost all hydrogenation 
processes. 

Dehydrogenation. — The general use of this term is so broad that 
it is practically useless. For example, the cracking of gas oil in an 
early batch still involved dehydrogenation. For the purpose of this 
discussion, the term will be limited to operations on material in the 
gasoline boiling range, or lighter, and considered in two categories, as 
was done for hydrogenation, i. e., nondestructive and destructive. 
Nondestructive dehydrogenation is defined as the removal of hydrogen 
from the hydrocarbon molecule without the cracking which would 
significantly change its boiling range. Destructive dehydrogenation 
removes hydrogen from the molecule, but is accompanied by chain 
rupture to some degree. Catalysts are employed for the nondestruc- 
tive dehj^drogenation, but the destructive dehydrogeneration may be 
carried out either with or without catalyst, depending on the degree 
of selectivity desired. 

Polymerization. — Broadly speaking, polymerization can be consid- 
ered as the linking of two or more hydrocarbon molecules to form one 
molecule having a longer carbon chain and a liigher boiling point. 
Here again the definition must be narrowed to make it useful, because 
the tar produced when gas oil is cracked in a conventional cracking 
coil is the result of polymerization. Polymerization, as practiced 
intentionally, at the present time is confined to hydrocarbons having 
four carbon atoms or less to the molecule (butane and lighter), and 
links them together under conditions which result in the product being 
predominantly within the gasoline boiling range. The operation can 
be carried out either catalytically or thermally. The catalytic process 
operates at relatively high pressures, but at moderate temperatures, 
and only the unsaturates in the charge react. The thermal process 
operates at high pressures and high temperatures, but both unsaturates 
and saturates react, owing in part, but not entirely, to thermal dehydro- 
genation taking place in the heating coil as the charge is brought to 
operating temperature. 

Alhylation. — If any saturated hydrocarbon molecule is deprived 
of a hydrogen atom and then united with another hydrocarbon molecule 



246 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947 

through the bond where the hydrogen atom was removed, alkylation 
has been accomplished. The broad definition of this term leaves us 
nowhere, but one of the specific alkylation processes in which interest 
is at a high pitch at the present time unites isobutane (a branched- 
chain compound) with a butane (unsaturated branched- or straight- 
chain compound) to produce practically pure iso-octane. The opera- 
tion is carried out at low pressure and low temperature, and requires 




N -;;v.^' f 



Figure 4. — Petroleum-ization— 1940, Diagram indicates the complexity of the 
refiner's problem in properly selecting the processes for the several products 
and stages of refining best suited for his specific crudes. 

a catalyst. Another example is the process which produces cumene. 
In this process propylene is reacted with benzol to produce isopropyl 
benzene, a valuable aviation blending agent. 

Desulfurization. — In general, this term is self-defining, but here it 
will be considered as applying to the removal of sulfur from material 
within the gasoline boiling range. Chemical desulfurization, using 
either sulfuric acid or caustic soda, has been practiced for many years. 
There is, however, a definite feeling that destructive chemical desul- 
furization is on the way out; so, for the purpose of this sunamary — 



PETROLEUM — FIELD 247 

which is concerned chiefly with the new catalytic processes — the defini- 
tion will be narrowed to identify processes which decompose the sulfur- 
hydrocarbon compounds in the gasoline, and evolve the sulfur as hydro- 
gen sulfide or possibly as sulfur dioxide. 

Isomerization. — Inasmuch as saturated hydrocarbons can exist as 
either straight- or branched-chain compounds, and as the branched 
chain compounds in the gasoline boiling range have higher antiknock 
qualities than the straight-chain compounds (e. g., iso-octane vs. nor- 
mal heptane, the 100 and 0, respectively, of our antiknock scale), in- 
terest in controlled changing of straight chains to branched chains 
(isomerization) increased sharply as practicable methods were dis- 
covered. Isomerization, as now available for our study as an isolated 
process, is confined to butane and pentane conversion to the correspond- 
ing iso-compounds; but inasmuch as the extremely high octane-number 
increase obtained during certain catalytic-dehydrogenation operations 
on gasoline can best be accounted for by assuming some isomerization 
to have occurred, it is the opinion in many quarters that catalysts and 
conditions will be found eventually which will extend isomerization 
as a controlled process into the broad gasoline boiling range. 

Aromatization. — For present purposes let us define aromatization as 
the conversion of saturated hydrocarbons to aromatic hydrocarbons, 
e. g., conversion of hexane to benzol, heptane to toluol, etc. Processes 
using catalysts at relatively high temperatures and moderate pressures 
have accomplished such conversions with surprisingly high yields. 

Catalytic cracking and reforming. — As mentioned previously, crack- 
ing involves dehydrogenation of the type defined as destructive. In 
the rupturing of the hydrocarbon chains, there are created fragments 
which are extremely active chemically. In the course of reacting to 
attain chemical stability, these fragments apparently, to some degree, 
engage in practically all of the reactions which we have been discuss- 
ing. The use of a catalyst during cracking has the interesting effect 
of decreasing the amount of polymerization to tar and at the same 
time encouraging aromatization and isomerization of the cracked 
fractions into the gasoline boiling range. As a result, material of high 
antiknock value is produced. In catalytic reforming a different effect 
is sought. Here aromatization and isomerization are encouraged by 
different operating conditions and catalysts, but every effort is made 
to suppress the chain rupture which would cause excessive conversion 
of gasoline to gas. In figure 4 catalytic reforming is classified as de- 
hydrogenation, but merely for convenience, and does not infer that the 
dehydrogenation phase is considered predominant. 

Coking. — The operation of coking, whether thermal or catalytic, 
consists of heat-treating heavy hydrocarbons, usually crude residuum 
or cracked tar, in order to increase the ultimate yield of gasoline from 

777488—48 19 



248 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947 

the crude. Heavy hydrocarbons are low in hydrogen-carbon ratio; 
gasoline is relatively high in this same ratio. The conversion, there- 
fore, necessitates the throwing out of carbon (coke) as a means of 
adjustment of this ratio. Catalytic coking, as contrasted with thermal 
coking, results in less coke "throw-out" for a given conversion, pos- 
sibly due to the fact that gasolines of relatively high aromatic content 
have a lower hydrogen-carbon ratio than nonaromatic gasolines, and 
lower carbon "throw-out" would suffice for the adjustment in hydro- 
gen-carbon ratio necessitated by this type of conversion. 

Figure 4 is taken directly from the above-mentioned paper.^ This 
scheme starts with crude petroleum and presents some of the various 
courses which might be charted in converting this crude oil to gaso- 
line as the major product, the shaded circles representing positions 
in a stepwise examination where a stop is made to review ways and 
means before taking the next step. 

A quick review of this chart shows that the first step for most of 
the operations in refining crude oil to high octane gasoline, is that in 
which the hydrocarbon fractions existing in the crude oil as received 
are changed in molecular structure from chemically stable hydrocar- 
bons to materials which are chemically reactive and are thus suscepti- 
ble to synthesis into highly branched chain materials which have been 
found to have the higher antiknock values. Upon completion of what- 
ever synthesis methods are used, either thermal cracking, thermal or 
catalytic dehydrogenation, polymerization, or alkylation the materials 
thus produced may be satisfactory for blending into motor fuel directly 
as such, or may require further treatment such as hydrogenation or 
desulfurization. 

COMBAT-GRADE AVIATION GASOLINE 

In 1939 very few plants were operating dehydrogenation, polymeri- 
zation, alkylation, or hydrogenation units. During the war the re- 
quirements for combat-grade aviation gasoline posed a problem in 
large-scale production of isopentane, iso-octane and the other trimeth- 
ylpentanes, alkylated aromatics, and carefully fractionated and pre- 
pared catalytic base stocks to be blended into finished fuel. It was 
only by tailormaking the fuel in this fashion that the characteristics 
required by the modern aviation engine could be met completely. The 
fuel had to be 100 octane under normal cruising conditions, it had to 
be chemically stable under storage conditions in all parts of the world, 
and it had to respond with an apparent antiknock value considerably 
in excess of 100 to permit a heavily loaded plane to take off with maxi- 
mum power at top supercharge boost pressure and rich mixture 
conditions. 



» Petroleum-ization — 1940. 



PETROLEUM — FIELD 249 

The important development of catalytic cracking enabled the pro- 
duction of superior aviation base stocks. In these processes, the pres- 
ence of a catalyst results in the formation of appreciable quantities of 
isoparaffins and aromatics. Only a very small amount of olefins, 
which are undesirable for aviation gasoline, are formed in contrast 
to older thermal cracking processes which produce large amounts of 
olefins. 

Three chief sources of isoparaffins were utilized. The most im- 
portant was the product known as "alkylate," which is produced by 
combining low molecular weight olefin and isoparaffin hydrocarbons. 
The second was the polymerization of two low molecular weight olefins 
(product known as codimer) followed by hydrogenation to obtain an 
isoparaffin. The third was the rigorous fractional distillation of 
straight-run stocks. To meet military demands all these processes 
were perfected and expanded. 

The need for aromatic hydrocarbons immediately imposed another 
synthesis problem since benzene, the most readily available aromatic, 
freezes at 40 "^ F. and cannot be used to any great extent because avia- 
tion gasoline must meet low-temperature requirements for high- 
altitude flymg. Consequently, cumene (f. p., —141° F.) was imme- 
diately synthesized by alkylating propylene (a waste refinery gas) 
and benzene and became the first important source of aromatics for 
aviation fuel. It is interesting to note that cumene had never been 
produced commercially before the war but by the end of the war about 
500,000 gallons per day were in production. Other sources of aro- 
matics were xylenes and toluene both synthesized from petroleum and 
excess ethyl benzene from the synthetic-rubber program. The fact 
that some of these aromatics were produced by alkylating benzene 
with olefins (cumene and ethyl benzene) while others were made by 
dehydrogenation of cycloparaffins illustrates the versatility used to 
achieve results. 

The old source of pentanes used for volatility did not escape exami- 
nation and these ultimately were separated and only the isopentanes 
used. The chemical "aviation gasoline" near the close of the war had 
the following composition, listed in approximate order of increasing 
boiling range : 

Isopentane 
Isoparaffins : 

Alkylate 

Hydrogenated codimer 

Isohexanes and isoheptanes (fractioued from straight-run naphtha) 
Aromatics : 

Toluene 

Xylenes 

Ethyl benzene 

Cumene (isopropyl benzene) 
Catalytic cracked base stock 



250 ANNUAL EEPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947 

This mixture of components with the addition of tetraethyl lead 
was known as 100/130-grade aviation gasohne. It has a performance 
rating of 130 under take-oflf conditions and a rating of 100 under flight 
conditions. This fuel made available 30 percent more power over the 
old fuel for take-offs and short bursts of speed during actual combat. 
At the start of the war the production of 100-octane aviation gasoline 
was approximately 40,000 barrels per day. At the close of the war 
100/130-grade aviation fuel was being produced in excess of 500,000 
barrels per day. 

INDUSTRIAL PROCESSING MATERIALS FROM PETROLEUM 

In the field of what are known as processing materials from pe- 
troleum there continue to be new products and applications. In fact 
there are few articles that do not utilize petroleum in some form in 
their manufacture. It is said that over 30 basic industries employ 
petroleum in their manufacturing operations. Individual applica- 
tions are numerous. It is in the classes of processing materials and 
manufactured chemicals that petroleum products number into hun- 
dreds and unit values are greatest. 

One of the processing materials made from petroleum in largest 
volume is paraffin wax with which we are all familiar as a component 
of bread wrappers, waxed paper, paper milk bottles, and candles. 

A newcomer to the field of waxes is a material known as micro- 
crystalline wax which is tough and pliable at low temperatures and 
extremely resistant to water. Microcrystalline waxes had been made 
prior to the war but their real value was not appreciated until the 
advent of problems created by the war. They were first called 
"amorphous waxes" because they were believed to be noncrystalline. 
Later is was found that they contained minute crystals and the name 
microcrystalline waxes came into use. Small arms and rations were 
packaged in containers utilizing these waxes in their construction. 
They have also been used for liners of metal cans and drums to resist 
the action of beer, wines, and acids. The developments in these waxes 
created large demands and it is necessary for the industry to bend 
every effort to supply the required quantities. 

In most uses of petroleum waxes, they are applied in a molten con- 
dition. Wax can also be applied in the form of a wax emulsion which 
is a suspension of fine wax particles in water, with a suitable dispersing 
agent. The use of wax emulsions is attaining increased importance. 
The armed forces used thousands of yards of tent cloth, cotton duck, 
and mosquito netting that had been treated with wax emulsion to im- 
part a water repellent finish to the individual fibers. The treatment 
has practically no effect on the appearance and "feel" of the fabric 



PETROLEUM — FIELD 251 

and because of openings remaining between the fibers, adequate 
ventilation is assured. 

Rust prcA-entives are another group of products designed for war 
service. Protection against rust has always been a problem but it 
was made more difficult by military requirements. Metal objects both 
large and small had to stand shipping on boats all over the world where 
exposure to salty air and high humidity was ideal for rapid rust 
formation. Practically all metal articles used by the armed forces 
were coated with one of many rust preventives developed, and in many 
instances the rust preventive was subsequently removed before use of 
the article, adding to the problem. Practically all these rust preven- 
tives contained a petroleum base. The knowledge gained here should 
find ready application in preserving metal machinery such as farm 
tools and machinery frequently stored for long periods without use. 

Two new developments in the field of asphalt are prefabricated air- 
port runways and asphalts which will satisfactorily coat wet stone. 
In the first development burlap is saturated with asphalt, coated with 
small stones and rolled up as is common asphalt roll roofing for ship- 
ment. It is put down by employing a 60 percent overlap and cement- 
ing together with an asphalt cut-back. A large amount of this was 
employed by the armed forces. 

The nonstripping type of asphalt contains additives which increase 
its adhesion to stone, even if applied when the latter is wet. Roads 
may thus be laid in rainy weather and in addition give better and longer 
service. 

Other developments in processing materials derived from petroleum 
include plasticizers and softeners for synthetic rubbers, special oils 
that are heavier than water for mosquito control, and high refractive 
index oils for use in examining quartz crystals which are cut into 
oscillators to control wave length in radar and radio equipment. 

SYNTHETIC RUBBER FROM PETROLEUM 

Much has been written about this country's synthetic-rubber indus- 
try, claimed by some before the atomic bomb announcement to be the 
greatest technical achievement of all time. Large quantities of buta- 
diene and styrene were needed to make the Government's all-purpose 
rubber known as GR-S. There are several methods of producing 
butadiene from petroleum but the best method consists in dehydro- 
genating certain C4 hydrocarbons to form butadiene. As an example 
of the commercialization of butadiene production the Government- 
owned plant of the Neches Butane Products Company producing 
butadiene from petroleum is rated at 100,000 tons of butadiene per year 
and has produced at a rate far in excess of this. New uses for 
butadiene can be expected now that this material is commercially 



252 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 194 7 

available, and at least one such product (butadiene monoxide, a 
chemical intermediate) has already been announced. 

Styrene production also required for GR-S rubber is carried on by 
the chemical industry by alkylating benzene with the petroleum olefin 
ethylene to form ethyl benzene which is converted to styrene by dehy- 
drogenation. Ethylene is recovered from refinery gases or produced 
by cracking a petroleum hydrocarbon such as propylene. 

Butyl rubber, another very important synthetic rubber, is a 100- 
percent petroleum product and a 100-percent American development. 
It is synthesized from isobutylene, a petroleum hydrocarbon obtained 
from cracking processes, and a small amount of a diolefin such as iso- 
prene. These two hydrocarbons are converted into butyl rubber at 
temperatures of approximately — 150°F. by a continuous process. 
This development filled the nation's need for heavy-duty inner tubes 
at a critical time, since GR^S (butadiene styrene rubber) is unsatis- 
factory and natural rubber was cut off. Butyl rubber in some re- 
spects is superior to the latter in having better resistance to oxidation 
and lower permeability to the passage of gases. Inner tubes from 
it have proved superior to those of natural rubber. This product 
is expected to have an excellent future. It should find new uses in 
electrical insulation, waterproof fabrics, and mechanical goods. 

PLASTICS FROM PETEOLEUM 

In the field of plastics there have been some notable products de- 
rived from petroleum hydrocarbons. Among the newer petroleum 
plastics are polyethylene resins, allyl plastics, and polyvinylidene 
chloride resin. Polyethylene resins are a 100-percent petroleum hy- 
drocarbon resin produced by polymerizing ethylene itself. Their 
production was announced in 1944 by the duPont Co. and then in- 
dependently by the Carbide & Carbon Chemicals Corp. Polyethylene 
plastics are flexible and tough over a wide range of temperatures, 
have exceptional electrical properties, are resistant to moisture pene- 
tration, and are chemically inert. They are thermoplastic and can 
be made into thin sheets and filaments. Polyethylene has been used 
primarily in electrical insulation for radar equipment. It can be 
expected to find many uses in a peacetime economy. Its production 
represents another major technical achievement. 

Allyl plastics are based on allyl alcohol which is derived from 
propylene. In 1942 two allyl resins were announced, one (diallyl 
phthalate) by an oil company and the other (now allymer CIl-39) by 
a chemical company. These plastics are reported to make excellent 
coating materials for cans and metal containers, one being reported 
to be less brittle and harder than glass and harder than any other 
transparent plastic. Its uses have been strictly military. These 
resins have i^roperties unique to themselves which should make them 



PETROLEUM — FIELD 253 

find ready markets. AUyl alcohol and chloride will doubtless find 
many other uses in chemical synthesis. 

Some time ago a chemical company announced a resin produced 
from the monomer vinylidene chloride which is a derivative of eth- 
ylene and is therefore of interest to the petroleum industry. It differs 
from the older vinyl chloride monomer in that two chloi-ine atoms 
have been substituted for hydrogen atoms in the ethylene molecule 
instead of one. This plastic is very tough and resistant to solvents, 
has a very high tensile strength and can be made into strong filaments. 
Taking advantage of these properties, expected uses include seat cov- 
ers, filter cloths, house screening, fishing lines, hose connections, and 
liexi^ble tubing. 

Older resins which are derived at least in part from petroleum and 
were greatly expanded for war uses are the polyvinyl resins, acrylic 
resins (Lucite and Plexiglass) , ethylcellulose, and phenolics employ- 
ing alkylated phenols. 

Among important chemicals newly derived from petroleum and 
announced during the war is phthalic anhydride, produced by oxi- 
dizing orthoxylene (previous production has been from naphthalene 
from coal tar) . One petroleum company has built a plant to manu- 
facture this chemical which is used in the synthesis of plastics, plasti- 
cizers, and insect repellents. Another company has announced a new 
synthesis of carbon bisulfide from methane and sulfur. This chemical 
is used in the manufacture of viscose rayon, solvent extraction proc- 
esses, and in the manufacture of chemicals used in ore separation and 
for vulcanizing rubber. Its older synthesis was from coke and sulfur. 

DETERGENTS FROM PETROLEUM 

For many years both oil-soluble and water-soluble soaps have been 
produced from petroleum mainly as byproducts from the treating of 
oils for industrial or medicinal purposes. Just prior to the war a de- 
mand arose for synthetic detergents or wetting agents which would 
be superior to either the byproduct soaps or those made by saponi- 
fication of fatty or vegetable oils. Research carried out in petroleum 
laboratories resulted in development of processes for synthesizing such 
detergents from petroleum hydrocarbons, and commercialization of 
these processes was quite rapid. During the war all such production 
was under allocation to such uses as incorporation in GI all-purpose 
soap for use in all kinds of water, penicillin manufacture, and many 
other critical uses. Since the war, requirements have increased largely 
through the use in industrial and household cleansers. In addition, 
many of the products have been improved by utilizing plant facilities 
and processes developed for aviation-gasoline or toluene manufacture. 
The petroleum soap of today is a complicated chemical synthetic 



254 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947 



GASOLINE 



TEST DISTILLATE 



—THERMAL CRACKING - 



-GAS TO FUEL 
-AGIO TREAT — 
-TAR 



r— GAS OIL— ' 



_ LIGHT _ 
NEUTRAL 



- PRESS -r-'"'' o^L^°-* RERUN - 



-TREAT ►FILTER 



^ HEAVY _ 
NEUTRAL 



SLACK 
WAX 



PRODUCTS 



_^ GASOLINE 
(HI-TEST) 



FURNACE 

"distillate 



-TREAT -FILTER- 



.LIGHT 
NEUTRAL OIL 



HEAVY 

'neutral oil 



-ACID TREAT-^ REFINED WAX 



. cylinder stock 
"or fuel oil 



PUMP ( 1 

Q CRUDE ^ 
1 oTl^I-^ 



FLOW DIAGRAM CRUDE OIL REFINING, 1926 

FiGUBB 5. 



PETROLEUM — FIELD 



255 



GAS 

-RECOVERY - 
SYSTEM 



c 



— TAIL GAS 



LIGHT 
HYDROCARBONS 



CATALYTIC 
POLYMERIZATION 

POLYMER 



ALKYLATION 

ALKYLATE 
I 



1J 



PRODUCTS 



FUEL GAS 



-—GASOLINE 



SWEETEN- 
CRUDE ^ [—SWEETEN 
NAPHTHA 



— DESULFURl2ATI0N■ 

TEF0RMlNG p GRAY TREAT-' STABILIZE^UNISOL TREAT — 
^AS TO GAS RECOVERY SYSTEM 



-SOLVENT STOCK 
-GASOLINE 



-REFORMER STOCK 
-SPECIAL SOLVENTS 



ZJ 



'-—ACID TREAT — f 

-KEROSINE— ACID TREAT-J"^' 
I — ( 



-SWEETEN- 



.SPECIAL 
SOLVENTS 



EXPORT 

"kerosine 



PIPE STILL 
RERUN 



^FURNACE OIL- 



DOMESTIC KEROSINE 
CHEMICAL OR CATALYTIC TREATMENT 



DOMESTIC 
SWEETEN -FILTER— 3 EXPORT 
KEROSINE 

FILTER ^FURNACE OIL 



CATALYTIC 
"CRACKING 



■FURNACE OIL- 



GASOLINE - 



-STABILIZE - 



-CAUSTIC WASH- 



GAS TO GAS RECOVERY SYSTEM 

THERMAL pSTABILIZE —ACID TREAT— SWEETEN --, 

"CRACKING "1 

i-GRAY TREAT — -STABILIZE -UNISOL TREAT 

TAR TO *6 FUEL 



STEAM AND 
VACUUM rerun" 



• GASOLINE 



WAX 



DISTILLATE 



-PRESS- 



PRESSED PIPE STILL .„ „ ,„ 

OIL -* RERUN r*CID TREAT- 
■— GAS OIL 



-FILTER- 



-NEUTRAL OILS 



^PARAFFIN OILS 

rsCA'^EWAx'^'-AClDTREAT— FILTER — SCALE 
^SLACK_„<.^c»T^ SCALE WAX >- =^" PARAFFIN WAX 

*'♦* 'SWEATED WAX— ACID TREAT — FILTER — "^'""''£0 

PARAFFIN WAX 
WOOTS OIL TO CRACKING OR RECYCLING 



VACUUM STILL - 
U-TAR — 




•NITRAFFIN-OEWAX 



•-C 



ACETONE 



BENZOL 



ENTRIFUGE 



SLACK WAX 
TO CRACKING 

DEWAXED 
OIL 



l— PET 



l-NITRENE 



-[ 



-CRACKING 



■FILTER— LUBE OIL 

^SPECIAL 

PRODUCTS 



-VACUUM STILL- 



— COASTAL OILS 



-DISTILLATES 



J 



-*-*6 FUEL 



GAS TO RECOVERY SYSTEM 
■STABILIZE -TREAT SWEETEN ■ 

GRAY TRE:AT -STABILIZt 



. STEAM AND 
VACUUM RERUN 



- UNISOL TREAT- 



•h 



lASOLINE 



GAS OIL TO CRACKING 
TAR TO *6 FUEL 



-STEAM REDUCED - 
-AIR BLOWN 



— ASPHALT FLUX 

__ STEAM REFINED 

ASPHALTS 
_^ OXIDIZED 

ASPHALTS 



FLOW DIAGRAM CRUDE OIL REFINING OCT., 1946 

FiGUBE 6. 



256 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947 

controlled in properties to meet very exacting requirements and a 
far cry from the older types of byproduct soap. 

WHAT HAS HAPPENED TO THE REFINERY 

As we have traced refinery history in the preceding discussion many 
new processes have been developed to handle the requirements for 
the many new and improved petroleum products now in demand. The 
process flow of a refinery has become almost a maze. Figure 5 depicts 
a typical refinery flow, corresponding in chronology approximately to 
the start of our historical survey. Without commenting on the details 
the main thing to note is the relative simplicity of processing and 
number of products. 

Figure 6 depicts a typical refinery flow today, without including 
the details of some of the previously mentioned complex chemical 
processes. A comparison with the preceding figure explains why pres- 
ent-day refineries must be heavily staffed with technically trained per- 
sonnel and must operate hand in hand with large and competent re- 
search and development departments. Today a petroleum refinery 
is not only that but has also become a large-tonnage chemical manu- 
facturing plant ; and we are still going strong. 

CONCLUSION 

In conclusion it can be said that the petroleum-refining industry 
has in either active or contemplated production materials used in : 

Alcohols and antifreezes, 

Lacquers, paints, varnishes, and solvents, 

Rayons and plastics, 

Dyestuffs, textile oils, and leather oils, 

Synthetic rubbers and paper, 

Medicines, poisons, and toilet goods, 

Explosives and anesthetics. 

Detergents, emulsifiers, and wetting agents, 

in addition to bottled household fuel gas, motor fuels, kerosene, fur- 
nace oil, lubricants, and heavy fuel oils which are generally consid- 
ered the refiner's main stock in trade. Does it seem strange to hear 
that coal is hauled to market by a Diesel oil engine ? 

Thus refining is rapidly becoming a broad and versatile chemical- 
manufacturing business and the refinery chemist has reason to believe 
that he can derive from oil practically every hydrocarbon that can 
be derived from coal, many products now or formerly derived from 
vegetable and animal materials, and many products that cannot be 
obtained on commercial scale from any of these sources. 

The last 10 years of petroleum-refining developments have been in- 
teresting and exciting, and rapid obsolescence of processes and prod- 
ucts has given truth to the statement that "there is no such thing as 
an up-to-date refinery" since it will be obsolete, at least in part, before 
it can be completed. 



THE TSUNAMI OF APRIL 1, 1946, IN THE HAWAIIAN 

ISLANDS^ 



By G. A. Macdonald 

TJ. 8. Geological Survey 

F. P. Shepaed 

Scripps Institution of Oceanography 

and 

D. C. Cos 

Haicaiian Sugar Planters' Association Experiment Station 



[With 6 plates] 
INTRODUCTION 

The tsunami which struck the shores of the Hawaiian Islands on 
the morning of April 1, 1946, was the most destructive, and one of 
the most violent, in the history of the Islands. More than 150 persons 
were killed, principally by drowning, and at least 161 others were in- 
jured. Property damage reached about $25,000,000. 

The wave attack on Hawaiian shores was far from uniform. The 
height and violence of the waves at adjacent points varied greatly, 
and not always in the manner which would have been expected from 
superficial inspection and a study of the existing literature on tsunamis. 
Therefore, a detailed study of the effects of the tsunami has been 
made, in an effort to understand the observed variations, and in the 
hope that the principles established may help lessen the loss of life 
and property in future tsunamis. Space is not available in the pres- 
ent short paper to discuss findings in detail, or even to present all the 
evidence for all the conclusions. These matters will be treated in 
detail in a longer paper (Shepard, Cox, and Macdonald, in prepara- 
tion). 

Acknowledgments. — We wish to thank the many persons who fur- 
nished information during the course of the field study. We are also 
especially grateful to M. H. Carson, H. S. Leak, H. W. Beardin, and 
W. K. Sproat, who supplied measurements of the highwater level in 
areas not visited by us ; H. W. Iversen and J. D. Isaacs, who supplied 
additional measurements on Oahu ; A. F. Robinson and Dexter Fraser, 

1 Reprinted by permission from Pacific Science, vol. 1, No. 1, January 1947. 

257 



258 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947 

who furnished descriptions of the wave effects on Niihau and Lanai, 
respectively; the Hawaii County engineer's office, which supplied a 
map showing the extent of flooding in Hilo; and the United States 
Coast and Geodetic Survey, which supplied data on the earthquake 
and the record of the Honolulu tide gage, and permitted the use, in 
advance of publication, of C. K. Green's manuscript on the tsunami 
along the shores of North and South America, Howard A. Powers, 
seismologist of the Volcano Observatory at Hawaii National Park, 
aided greatly in the investigation on the island of Hawaii. Miss 
Maude Jones, archivist of the Territory of Hawaii, and Miss Margaret 
Titcomb, librarian of the Bishop Museum, aided in locating records 
of past waves. C. K. Wentworth and H. S. Palmer aided greatly 
in discussions. Wentworth and Walter Munk read and criticized the 
manuscript. J. Y. Nitta prepared the illustrations. 

DEFINITION OF "TSUNAMI" 

The name "tsunami" - is applied to a long-period gravity wave 
in the ocean caused by a sudden large displacement of the sea bottom 
or shores. A tsunami is accompanied by a severe earthquake, but 
the earthquake does not cause the tsunami. Rather, both are caused 
by the same sudden crustal displacement. The waves of a tsunami 
have a period of several minutes to an hour as contrasted with sev- 
eral seconds for ordinary storm waves caused by wind, a wave length 
of scores of miles as contrasted with less than 500 feet for wind waves, 
and a speed of hundreds of miles an hour as contrasted with less than 
60 miles an hour for wind waves. Tsunamis are also sometimes termed 
"seismic sea waves," and are popularly known as "tidal waves." The 
latter term is patently undesirable, as the waves have no connection 
whatever with the tides. "Tsunami" is used herein in preference to 
"seismic sea wave" because of its greater brevity, and because the 
etymological correctness of the term "seismic sea wave" appears open 
to question.^ 

HISTORY OF TSUNAMIS IN HAWAII 

Tsunamis probably reach Hawaiian shores on an average of more 
than one a year. Most of these are small, however, and generally 
escape notice except when their record is recognized on tide gages. 
Earlier tsunamis in Hawaii have been discussed by Jaggar (1931) 

' Also spelled "tunami," the Japanese equivalent of the letter "t" being pronounced 
"ts" in English. It appears preferable, however, to use the phonetic spelling in English, 
avoiding thereby much Incorrect pronunciation. 

' The adjective "seismic" is derived from the Greek root seismos, meaning earthquake, 
and Is defined as pertaining to, produced by, or characteristic of an earthquake. The 
waves in question are not, however, cliaracteristic of most earthquakes, even those of 
submarine origin, and are not produced by earthquakes. 



TSUNAMI OF APRIL 1, 194 6 — MACDONALD, ET AL. 



259 



and Powers (1946, p. 3). The accompanying table lists all the tsuna- 
mis noticed on Hawaiian shores, in the period of written history, of 
which record could be found, together with their sources if known. 
A total of 27 are listed, or an average of 1 every 4.7 years since 1819. 
Most of them, however, did little damage. During the same interval 



, ..i^'' ,, v^\ C A N A D A 

y/////,(u--' '^Or/gin of tsunami ^ *, 
'''''m^^m^/^^' °f April I, 1946 %\ 




HAWAIIAN 

■ -ISLANDS 



■■■ ^MARSHALL 
•'•■■,' -ISLAND 3 






...PHOENIX IS. 
ELLICE IS 

SAMOA IS 
<lj-Ii- ^ SOCIETY .IS., 



AUSTRAL re: • , 




o 




FiouBE 1. — Map of the Pacific basin, showing the position of the Hawaiian Islands, 
the place of origin of the tsunami of April 1, 1946, and the distribution of seismi- 
cally active belts around the Pacific in which tsunamis are likely to originate. 

there are listed five severe tsunamis which caused extensive damage, 
an average of one every 25.6 years. 

Other violent waves have been termed "tidal waves" in the news- 
papers, but vrere more probably storm waves. Such were the waves 
which hit Maliko, Maui, on January 28, 1895, and those which struck 
Kaumalapau on Lanai, and Nawiliwili on Kauai, on May 30, 1924. 

It will be noted that only 2 of the 27 tsunamis listed in the table 
were of local origin. With the exception of the numerous volcanic 
earthquakes on the island of Hawaii, which seldom cause tsunamis, 
the Hawaiian region is only moderately active seismically (Gutenberg 



260 



ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947 



and Richter, 1941, pp. 84r-85). The great majority of the tsunamis 
reaching Hawaii originate in the highly seismic border zone of the 
Pacific. Of the 22 tsunamis from known sources listed in the table, 5 
came from near South America, 1 from near Central America, 1 from 
near California, 3 from near Alaska and the Aleutian Islands, 5 from 
near Kamchatka, 3 from the Japanese area, and 1 from near the 
Solomon Islands. Of the five severe tsunamis, three originated near 
the coast of South America and one in the Aleutian area, and one 
was of local origin. One tsunami of moderate intensity came from 
near Kamchatka, and another probably from South America. 



Table 1. — Hawaiian tsunamis 



Date 


Source (nearest coast) 


Damage in Hawaii 


Average 
speed of 
waves 


1S1Q Anr T' 


Unknown .. .. 


Unknown 


Alt. per hr. 


1837 Nov 7 


South America 


Severe 






Kamchatka -- 


Small _ 






Hawaii 


Severe 






South America -. 


do 




1869 July 25 


South America (?) 


Moderate 








Small.. 




1S77 May 10 


South America . 


Severe 






East Indies ..- -.- 


Small 






Japan 


None 

do 


478 


IQfll All" Q 


Japan (7) . 






Unknown .- 


do... 






South America 


Small 






Kamchatka-.- _ .-- 


do-. 


456 




Unknown (distant) 


None 






South America 


do 


450 




Kamchatka.- 


Moderate 

None 


432 




Kamchatka... 


438 




California 


do 


4G2 


j^qr>7 Dec '>8 


Kamchatka 


do 


438 






do 


462 




Aleutian Is 


do 


492 




Solomon Is 


do.. 


447 




Japan... 


Small 

None 


477 




Alaska 


496 




Japan - 


do 


425 




Aleutian Is 


Severe 


490 











GENERAL FEATURES OF THE APRIL 1946 TSUNAMI : ORIGIN AND 
NATURE OF THE WAVES 

The tsunami of April 1, 1946, was caused by a movement of the sea 
bottom on the northern slope of the Aleutian Deep, south of Unimak 
Island. The same crustal movement gave rise to a violent earthquake, 
recorded on seismographs all over the world. In Hawaii it was re- 
corded on the instrument of the United States Coast and Geodetic 
Survey located on the campus of the University of Hawaii in Hono- 
lulu, and on those of the Hawaiian Volcano Observatory at Kilauea 
on Hawaii. The epicenter of the earthquake has been located by the 
Coast and Geodetic Survey at latitude 53.5° N. and longitude 163° 
W., and the time established as 1*^59'° a. m. Hawaiian time (12*'29™ 
Greenwich time) (Bodle, 1946, p. 464). It may be assumed that the 
tsunami originated at the same place and time as the earthquake. The 



TSUNAMI OF APRIL 1, 1946 — MACDONALD, ET AL. 



261 



place of origin was thus 2,241 miles N. 8.5" W. of Honolulu, and 2,375 
miles N. 12° W. of Hilo (fig. 1) . 

The time of arrival of the waves in the Hawaiian Islands is known 
with certainty only at Honolulu. The record of the Honolulu tide 
gage (fig. 2) shows that the first rise started at about 6 : 33 a. m. (C. K. 
Green, 1946, p. 491), though the exact time cannot be stated closer 
than 2 or 3 minutes. The drum of the water-stage recorder at the 
Waimea River, on Kauai, revolves too slowly to give an accurate in- 
dication of time, but the first rise appears to have started there at 
about 5 : 55. At Hilo, electric clocks were stopped at 7 : 06, and a 



HOURS 




HOURS 



Figure 2. — Record produced on the tide gage in Honolulu Harbor by the tsunami 

of April 1, 1946. 

brief power failure occurred at 7:18. These have been interpreted 
by Powers (1946, p. 2), probably correctly, as the time of arrival of 
two wave crests at Hilo. From other considerations, discussed briefly 
elsewhere (Shepard, Macdonald, and Cox, in preparation), it ap- 
pears probable, however, that the crest at 7 : 06 was the second wave 
at Hilo, not the first. If so, allowing for the observed 15-minute 
interval between later waves, the first rise at Hilo probably started at 
about 6 : 45. Computed from these times of arrival, the approximate 
average speed of the tsunami from its origin to Honolulu and Hilo 
was, respectively, 490 and 498 miles an hour. On entering shallow 
water the waves decreased greatly in speed. The waves moving up 
Kawela Bay, on Oahu, were estimated by Shepard to be moving only 
about 15 miles an hour. Similar low speeds near shore were reported 



262 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 194 7 

by other observers, and are comparable to the speed of 20 miles an 
hour recorded in San Francisco Bay (C. K. Green, 1946, p. 492). 

The interval between the first and third wave crests, as recorded 
on the Honolulu tide gage (fig. 2), was about 25 minutes, indicating 
an average interval between early wave crests of approximately 12.5 
minutes. The interval between the first wave crest and the succed- 
ing trough was 7.5 minutes, however, indicating a wave period of 
15 minutes at the beginning of the disturbance. This corresponds 
with the mean wave period of 15.6 minutes found by Green (1946, 
p. 499) at Honolulu and eight other stations on the coasts of 
North and South America. At the mouth of Nuuanu Stream in 
Honolulu, C. K. Wentworth observed an interval of approximately 
15 minutes between successive bores ascending the stream, and a wave 
period of about 15 minutes was observed by J. B. Cox and D. C. Cox 
at Waikiki at about 7 : 45 a. m. Observations elsewhere were poor, 
but in general indicated an interval not far from 15 minutes between 
the early waves of the series. The interval between later waves at 
Honolulu (fig. 2) and elsewhere was shorter and less regular, probably 
because of the arrival of chains of waves traveling by somewhat 
different routes, refracted around different sides of islands, and 
reflected at various points, as well as traveling by the most direct 
route. Probably contributing to the irregularity of later waves 
were wind waves and also the free-period oscillations, in harbors 
and channels, known as "seiches." If the period of the waves is 
assumed to be 15 minutes, and the average speed to be about 490 miles 
an hour, the average wave length from crest to crest was about 122 
miles. 

Direct observations on the height of the waves in the open sea are 
lacking, but theoretical considerations indicate that the height prob- 
ably did not exceed 2 feet from crest to trough.* If so, the small 
height combined with the very great wave length should have made 
the waves imperceptible to ships at sea. That such was indeed the 
case is indicated by the fact that the master of a ship lying offshore 
near Hilo could feel no unusual waves, although he could see the 
great waves breaking onshore. Crews of fishing boats in the Hawaiian 
area also reported no unusual conditions at the time of the tsunami, 
although heavy storm waves were running. The few reports of violent 
waves of great height from ships at sea were probably occasioned by 
storm waves, together with the knowledge that a tsunami was taking 
place. 

The nature of the waves sweeping up onto Hawaiian shores varied 
greatly from place to place. At some places the water rose gently, 

* Based on the assumption of a 10-foot wave In 10 feet of water, and the variation of 
the wave height inversely as the fourth root of the depth. 



TSUNAMI OF APRIL 1, 1946 — MACDONALD, ET AL. 263 

flooding over the coastal lands without the development of any steep 
wave front. At such places most of the damage resulted from the 
violent run-back of the water to the sea. At some localities, although 
the general water surface rose gently, ordinary storm waves moved in 
over the top of the broad swells of the tsunami, and there at least part 
of the damage was caused by the storm waves. At most places, 
however, the waves of the tsunami swept toward shore with steep 
fronts and great turbulence, causing a loud roaring and hissing noise. 
Locally, the wave closely resembled a tidal bore, the steep front rolling 
in over comparatively quiet water in front of it. Behind the steep 
front, the wave crest was broad and nearly flat, with smaller storm 
waves superimposed upon it. Such bores were best developed in 
bays and estuaries, but waves of closely similar form were observed 
crossing shallowly submerged reefs upon otherwise open coasts. 

At many places the violence of the waves moving shoreward was 
sufficiently great to tear loose heads of coral and algae, up to 4 feet 
across, and toss them onto the beach as much as 15 feet above sea 
level. Locally, blocks of reef rock weighing several tons were quarried 
at the outer edge of the reef and thrown onto the reef surface. 

Between crests, the water withdrew from shore, exposing reefs, 
coastal mud flats, and harbor bottoms for distances up to 500 feet or 
more from the normal strand line. The outflow of the water was 
rapid and turbulent, making a loud hissing, roaring, and rattling noise. 
At several places houses were carried out to sea, and in some areas even 
large rocks and blocks of concrete were carried out onto the reefs. 
Sand beaches were strongly eroded by the outgoing water. People 
and their belongings were swept to sea, some being rescued hours later 
by boats and life rafts dropped from planes. 

At a few places, generally but not exclusively on the sides of the 
islands away from the wave origin, the first wave was reported to 
have been the highest. At those places, the rise was generally of the 
quiet sort. There are, however, no instrumental records showing the 
first wave to have been the highest, and it is possible that at places 
reporting the first wave as the highest, earlier waves may have been 
overlooked. Much more generallj; the third or fourth w^ave was re- 
ported to have been the highest and most violent. The third crest was 
the largest at the Honolulu tide gage (fig. 2) . At other localities the 
sixth, seventh, or eighth waves were said to have been the highest. At 
Waimea Kivcr, Kauai, the sixth crest was higher than any other, both 
in absolute level and in its height above the preceding and succeeding 
troughs. 

In general, if not everywhere, the size and violence of the waves 
increased to a maximum with the third to eighth waves. The oscilla- 
tions then gradually decreased in amplitude over a period of at least 

777488 — 48 20 



264 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947 

2 days, but with occasional waves which were larger than those just 
before and after them. Such temporary increases in wave height 
probably resulted from mutual reinforcement by the essentially simul- 
taneous arrival, in phase, of waves which had traveled different paths, 
or from the coincidence of tsunami waves with storm waves or seiche 
oscillations. 

Measures of the height of the waves approaching shore in shallow 
water, but before they dashed up on shore, are poor. At Kawela Bay, 
Oahu, Shepard estimated the height of the waves advancing across 
the reef to have been as much as 18 feet, and observers estimated the 
height of the waves crossing the reef off Lanikai, on Oahu, to have been 
about 7 feet. Photographs taken at Hilo show the top of the breakers 
to have been 25 feet above the normal bay surface where they struck 
Cocoanut Island, but the waves may have increased considerably in 
height in crossing the breakwater, and the effect of dashing up on the 
shore was probably already present, further exaggerating the height. 
Photographs of some of the late waves at the mouth of the Wailuku 
Kiver, in Hilo, show them to have been 6 to 8 feet high (pi. 6) , and 
early waves undoubtedly were higher. In general, these heights cor- 
respond fairly closely with the measured heights to which the water 
dashed on the shore at those localities. At any rate it appears clear 
that the waves not only slowed down, but increased in height on 
entering shallow water. George Green (1838) states that the wave 
height varies inversely as the fourth root of the depth of the water. 

Most observers reported the first movement on Hawaiian shores to 
have been a withdrawal of the water. However, the only available 
instrumental records, at Honolulu and Waimea, both indicate the first 
movement to have been a rise. The instrumental records are prob- 
ably more reliable than the reports of untrained observers. The initial 
rise at Honolulu was small (fig. 2), and a similar small rise at other 
localities may easily have been overlooked. Certainly it would have 
been less impressive than the large withdrawal of the water from shore 
as the succeeding trough approached. It is interesting to note that 
the records of tide gages along the coasts of North and South America 
obtained by C. K. Green (1946, p. 497) all show the initial movement to 
have been a rise, with amplitude of about one-third that of the ensuing 
trough. 

HEIGHTS REACHED BY WAVES ON HAWAIIAN SHORES 

Measurements of high-water marks have been made around the 
shores of all five major islands of the Hawaiian group. The measured 
heights are shown on figures 3 to 7. All heights are stated in feet 
above lower low water. At each point sea level was estimated, the 
height of the high- water mark above that level was measured by 
means of hand level or steel tape, and the measurement reduced by 



TSUNAMI OF APRIL 1, 194 6 — MACDONALD, ET AL. 



265 



means of tide tables to height above lower low water. Some inaccuracy 
undoubtedly has entered in the estimation of mean sea level, but it 
is believed that the heights are probably accurate to within 1 foot. The 
levels measured include : points indicated by eyewitnesses as the upper 
limit of the water, lines of flotsam or swash marks, the upper limits 
of soil and vegetation scouring, levels of consistent scratching and 
barking on trees, and the upper level of staining on the walls of 
buildings. 




FiGUitE 3. — Map of the island of Kauai, showing heights reached by the water 
during the tsunami of April 1, 1946. Heights are in feet above lower low 
water. 



The measured heights of high-water marks range from 55 feet at 
Pololu Valley on Hawaii, 54 feet at Waikolu Valley on Molokai, and 
45 feet at Haena and Kilauea Point on Kauai, to 2 feet at Kaunakakai 
on Molokai, 2 feet at Milolii and Hoopuloa on Hawaii, and less than 
2 feet at the head of Kaneohe Bay on Oahu. Causes of the variations 
in height will be discussed in a later section. 

Most of the heights measured are, of course, not the heights of the 
actual waves, but rather the heights to which the water was driven 
on shore. On a vertical clilBF directly across the path of the wave, this 
height may theoretically amount to twice the height of the actual 
wave. On slopes less than vertical, or on cliffs at an angle to the 



266 



ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947 



direction of wave advance, it should be somewhat less than twice the 
wave height. This measure represents the height of dash of solid 
water, but very abundant spray may be thrown much higher. More- 
over, storm waves riding on the crest of the broader swells of the 
tsunami undoubtedly added in places to the height to which water 
dashed on shore. There are places where normal trade-wind waves 
are flung to a height nearly as great as that reached by the tsunami, 
and many places, particularly on shores facing away from the origin 




FiGTjBE 4. — Map of the island of Oahu, showing the heights reached by the water 
during the tsunami of April 1, 1946. Heights are in feet above lower low 
water. 

of the tsunami, where waves of heavy storms reached appreciably 
higher than did the waves of the tsunami. 

It is not possible to make reliable estimates of the magnitudes of 
these complicating factors, as there are too many unknown elements 
involved. However, it is probable that most of the water heights 
recorded for the tsunami on the northern and eastern sides of the 
islands were appreciably increased by these factors. 

FACTORS INFLUENCING THE HEIGHTS AND INTENSITIES OF THE 

WAVES 

It may be assumed that the size and speed of the waves approaching 
the islands from the open ocean to the north were essentially the same 
throughout the length of the Hawaiian Archipelago. Differences in 



TSUNAMI OF APRIL 1, 194G — MACDONALD, ET AL. 267 

height reached by the water and in violence of wave attack along 
Hawaiian shores must be attributed to local influences modifying the 
size and behavior of the waves. 

The factors found to have affected the height and intensity of tlie 
waves during the tsunami of April 1, 1946, are : 

1. Orientation of the coast line with respect to the point of origin of the 
tsunami. 

2. Shape of the island. 

3. Exposure to storm waves. 

4. Submarine topography. 

5. Presence or absence of reefs. 

6. Configuration of tlae coast line. 

7. Merging of waves from different directions, or of different types. 

Orientation of the coast line toith respect to the point of origin of 
the tsunami. — In general, the heights reached by the water were great- 
est on the sides of the islarsds facing the origin of the waves, and lowest 
on the sides away from the wave origin. This is evident from even 
a cursory inspection of the maps (figs. 3 to 7). Heights average con- 
sistently greater on the northern than on the southern sides of the 
islands. All the extreme heights were measured on the northern or 
nortlieastern sides. Conversely, most of the lowest figures were found 
on the southern and southwestern sides. It appears ahiiost self-evident 
that this should be so. Waves striking northern shores retain their full 
force, whereas the refracted waves striking southern shores suffer 
a diminution in force and height. This effect is discussed for wind 
waves in Breakers and Surf (U. S. Navy Hydrographic Office, 1944, 
pp. 12-13) . No wave can be refracted or reflected without losing some 
of its force. 

Shape of the island. — Waves were refracted around circular or 
nearly circular islands much more effectively than around angular 
or elongate islands. This fact had a marked effect on the height and 
violence of waves on the southern shores. Thus the water reached 
considerably greater heights along the southern coast of the nearly 
round island of Kauai (fig. 3) than along the southern coast of the 
angular and elongate island of Molokai (fig. 5), even though the 
heights along the northern coast of Molokai were on the average per- 
haps a little greater than those on the northern coast of Kauai. The 
contrast between the very high average height on the northern coast 
of Molokai and the very low average height on the southern coast is 
greater than that between the two sides of any other island, although 
the difference between the extreme highs and lows is almost exactly 
the same as on the island of Hawaii (fig. 7) . 

Exposure to storm waves. — At the time of the tsunami, large storm 
waves had been running for several days. As already pointed out, 
these storm waves riding: in on the backs of the broad swells of the 



268 



ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947 



tsunami in places undoubtedly increased the height to which the water 
dashed on shore. Moreover, in other places, where the rise in water 
level due to the tsunami was gentle, storm waves on top of the tsunami 
were responsible for much of the damage. The generally greater vio- 
lence of the waves on the windward (northern and northeastern) 
coasts as compared to that on the leeward coasts may have been in 
considerable part the result of the large storm waves which were driv- 
ing in on the windward coasts. Places on the windward coasts which 
were sheltered from the storm waves also experienced less violent 
waves. Thus at Kalaupapa, on the sheltered side of the peninsula 
on the windward side of Molokai, both photographs and the testimony 
of observers indicate that the rise of 25 feet caused by the tsunami was 
not violent. On the windward coasts, much of the rapid variation in 




Figure 5. — Map of the island of Molokai, showing heights (in feet above lower low 
water) reached by the water during the tsunami of April 1, 1946. 

intensity of wave attack may have resulted from the caprice of storm 
waves. 

Submarine topography. — Owing to their great wave length, the 
waves were somewhat affected by the ocean bottom throughout their 
course. However, the effect of the bottom increased greatly as the 
waves moved into shallow water, and caused a slowing of the wave, 
an increase in its height, and a steepening of its front. A direct evi- 
dence of the increase in height of the waves in shallow water was 
afforded by the lesser heights reached by the water at the ends of cer- 
tain peninsulas projecting into deep water and not prolonged seaward 
by pronounced ridges, as compared with the heights on adjacent shores 
rising from shoal water. Thus at the end of Kalaupapa Peninsula, 
on the northern coast of Molokai (fig. 5) , the water dashed only 7 feet 
above normal sea level, distinctly less than do the waves of ordinary 
storms ; whereas on the coasts rising from shoal water both east and 
west of the peninsula, the water swept up to heights of 30 to 54 feet. 
At the end of Keanae Peninsula, on the northern coast of Maui (fig. 6) , 



TSUNAMI OF APRIL 1, 194 6 — MACDONALD, ET AL. 



269 



the tsunami reached heights only a little greater than large trade-wind 
■waves. 

Submarine ridges and valleys, particularly those pointing toward 
the wave source, were of great importance in their effect on the strength 
of the waves. The best examples of the effect of ridges are found on 
the northern coast of Kauai. A long ridge extends in a direction 
slightly west of north from Haena, to a depth of about 8,000 feet 
(fig. 9) . Another extends northeastward from Kilauea Point, to even 
greater depths. The greatest heights (45 feet) reached by the water 
on the shores of Kauai were at the heads of these two ridges (fig. 3). 




Figure 6. — Map of the island of Maui, showing heights (in feet above lower low 
water) reached by the water during the tsunami of April 1, 1946. 

Another ridge extending northwestward from the western coast of 
Kauai is probably responsible for heights of 35 to 38 feet at its head. 
Long ridges projecting from Kaena and Kahuku Points on Oahu simi- 
larly caused an increase in wave heights there as compared to the 
heights on both sides (fig. 4). The ridges projecting eastward north 
of Hilo Bay and at Cape Kumukahi on Hawaii had, on the other hand, 
no such pronounced effect on the heights at their heads ; but it should 
be noted that they extend across the general direction of wave advance, 
not toward it. 

The greater heights reached by the water at the heads of sub- 
marine ridges are not difficult to explain. The ridge has a greater 
effect in limiting the movement of water particles in the advancing 



270 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947 

wave than does the deeper water alongside it. Consequently the por- 
tion of the wave over the ridge is retarded more than that away from 
the ridge, and the wave front becomes bent, with its concavity di- 
rected toward the ridge head. The result is a focusing of wave force 
on the shore at the head of the ridge (U. S. Navy Hydrographic Of- 
fice, 1944, p. 13). 

Similarly, in moving toward shore along the axis of a submarine 
valley, the part of the wave in the deep water along the valley axis 
moves faster than that in shallower water on the two sides. In con- 
sequence the wave front becomes bent, with its convexity toward the 
valley head. In the vicinity of the valley head the force lines (orthog- 
onals) of the wave are diffused or spread apart, and over any unit 
area the force of the waves striking shore is greatly decreased. 

An example of the effect of a submarine valley in lessening the 
force of the waves at its head is found at Kahana Bay, on Oahu (fig. 
4). There the waves dashed to heights of 11 to 17 feet on the coasts 
north and south of the bay, but reached heights of only 4 to 7 feet 
in the bay itself. A small submarine valley extends 2 miles north- 
eastward from the bay, to a depth of 150 feet. An example on a 
much larger scale is afforded by the zone of small heights along the 
northwestern shore of Kauai (fig. 3), at the head of a broad swale 
extending outward to oceanic depths. The broad valleylike depres- 
sion off the eastern coast of Hawaii south of Hilo Bay probably also 
was somewhat effective in reducing the heights reached by the water 
along that coast. Although fairly great, ranging from 16 to 19 feet, 
the heights there are not much greater than those reached by ordinary 
storm waves. 

Presence or absence of reefs. — The presence of a well-developed 
fringing reef appears to have had a decided effect in reducing the 
intensity of wave onslaught. Along the reef -protected northern coast 
of Oahu the heights reached on shore by the waves were on the average 
decidedly less than on the unprotected northern coasts of Molokai 
and Hawaii, or on the less-protected northern coast of Kauai. The 
best-developed coral reef in the Hawaiian Islands fills Kaneohe Bay 
on Oahu, where it has a width of about 3 miles. Despite the fact that 
the broad mouth of Kaneohe Bay is open to the north and northeast, 
the tsunami produced a rise in water level at the bay head which was 
so small as to be hardly perceptible to observers, and, so far as could 
be determined, nowhere exceeded 2 feet. Along the shore north of the 
bay the heights ranged from 4 to 10 feet, and on the end of Makapuu 
Peninsula southeast of the hvcy the heights reached more than 20 feet 

(% 4). 

The lesser heights along the southern shore of Molokai were prob- 
ably partly due to the wide protecting reef. The effect of the reef in 
reducing wave violence along that shore is well shown at places 



TSUNAMI OF APRIL 1, 1946 — MACDONALD, ET AL. 271 

where channels cross the reef. There the waves striking the shore at 
the heads of the channels were distinctly larger than those reaching 
shore on each side of the channel. Thus at the head of a small chan- 
nel which crosses the reef just west of the mouth of Kainalu Stream 
the water rose 11 feet, damaging houses, whereas just east and west 
of this channel the water rose only 7 to 8 feet. 

Configuration of the coast line. — It is generally considered that 
the effects of tsunamis should be intensiHed near the heads of V- 
shaped embayments. Such embayments greatly increase tidal fluc- 
tuations, as in the Bay of Fundy, and might be expected to act like- 
wise on the similarly long waves of a tsunami. Imamura (1937, 
pp. 125-127) states that as such a wave rolls up a V-shaped em- 
bayment its height increases in inverse ratio to the width and depth 
of the bay, and cites examples of such increases in height of the waves 
toward the bay head during Japanese tsunamis. Consequently, spe- 
cial search was made for this phenomenon in funnel-shaped bays on 
Hawaiian shores. No good examples could be found. Hilo Bay would 
appear to be an almost ideal site for such f unneling, but measurements 
around its shores show no systematic increase in heights toward its 
head (fig. 7 and 8) . Similarly there was a lack of increase in heights 
toward the head of the broad V-shaped embayment on the northern 
coast of Maui. Possibly the extreme height of 54 feet at Waikolu 
Valley, on the northern shore of Molokai, may have been partly the 
result of f unneling between Kalaupapa Peninsula and the point and 
small islands just east of the mouth of the valley. At both Pololu 
Valley on Hawaii and Pelekunu Valley on Molokai, the water level 
was higher at the bay head than on the walls of the bay part way out. 
However, at Pololu Valley, and probably also at Pelekunu, this level 
was the result of a local upsurge where the waves crossed the beach. 
Conversely, several bays were found in which the heights reached by 
the water were less at the bay head than near its mouth. 

Several small steep valleys, debouching into small bays, were found 
in which the water rose to appreciably greater heights along the valley 
axis than on the sides near the bay mouth or opposite the beach. Thus, 
in the small bay just south of Hanamaula Bay, on the eastern shore of 
Kauai, the water rose only 25 feet on the bay sides, but swept up the 
small valley at its head to a height of 40 feet. At Moloaa, on Kauai, the 
water reached an altitude of 40 feet in the axis of the valley, but only 
30 to 35 feet on the bay walls. Again, at Honouliwai, on Molokai, the 
water reached a height of 27 feet opposite the beach, but went 6 feet 
higher up the valley. These are merely si)ecialized examples of effect, 
upon the rush of water up on shore, of a topography above sea level 
which served to concentrate the inrushing water. 

Merging of waves frovn different directions. — Wave crests traveling 
by different routes may arrive at a given locality simultaneously 



272 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 194 7 

giving rise to a wave of greater size than either. Likewise, the simul- 
taneous arrival by different routes of a wave crest and a wave trough 
may effectually cancel out both. Thus, variations in the size and in- 
tensity of waves, particularly on the sides of the islands away from the 
wave origin, may result from the arrival, either in or out of phase, of 



/UPOLU 

NIULir 
POLOLU'^ 

[MAHUKONA 



WAIPIO VALLE 



i2-\„KAWAIHAE 



o- 



LAUPAHOEHOE 



•^ 



HAKALAU arjl 



PEPEEKEO„*.-22 
ONOMEA . / 34 
PAPAIKOUo|i 

H1U0« 



T 



•^ 



oKAlLUA 
iOoKEAUHOU 



H A W A I I 



oNAPOOPOO 

^HONAUNAU 

gVHOOKENA 



16 

KUMUKAHI POINT 
POHOIKI 
OPIHIKAO 



10 



KAIMU 

KALAPANA^^nT 




PUNALUU 
H0NUAP0V^4 



FiGTTEE 7. — Map of the island of Hawaii, showing heights (in feet above lower low 
water) reached by the water during the tsunami of April 1, 1946. 

two wave trains. During the tsunami of 194G several examples of the 
formation of a large wave by the juncture of two smaller ones were 
observed. Thus, in the Keaukaha area east of Hilo, witnesses described 
the arrival of a wave from the north simultaneously with one from 
the northeast, which built up a very high crest at the place of juncture. 
At the head of Maunalua Bay, on the southeastern shore of Oahu, two 
waves were seen to advance up channels across the wide reef, move 
toward each other parallel with the shore, and meet, throwing water 



TSUNAMI OF APRIL 1, 1946 — MACDONALD, ET AL. 273 

upward like the spray from a geyser. The water dashed up on shore to 
a height of only 3 feet except at the place of juncture, where it swept 
over the top of a sandspit 5 feet above sea level. 

Progressively southward around the shores of Kauai, the average 
height of the high-water marks gradually decreases, and along much 
of the southern shore it is 6 to 12 feet above sea level. However, in a 
zone 3 or 4 miles wide it ranges from 15 to 18 feet. This zone is almost 
directly across the island from the direction of wave origin, and prob- 
ably represents the area in which the waves refracted around opposite 
sides of the island met and reinforced each other. 

DAMAGE BY THE TSUNAMI 

Damage by the tsunami can be divided into structural damage, 
damage by erosion and deposition, and damage by flooding. The 
total property damage has been estimated by the office of the Governor, 
Territory of Hawaii, at about $25,000,000. Space permits only a brief 
review of the types of damage. The numbers of dwellings destroyed 
and damaged by the tsunami on the major islands are listed in table 2 
on page 276. 

Structural damage includes damage to buildings, roads, railroads, 
bridges, piers, breakwaters, fishpond walls, and ships. Frame build- 
ings at low altitudes along Hawaiian shores suffered extensive damage. 
Some were knocked over, by the force of the waves, by cutting away 
of the sand on which they stood, or by destruction of the foundations. 
Others were bodily washed away from their foundations. Some had 
walls pushed in by the force of the water, and in a few residences the 
water went on through the house and took out the opposite wall. As 
with earthquakes, there was a tendency to reduce the few two-story 
buildings to a single story, by destruction of the lower story. It is 
noteworthy that houses which were well built and tied together in- 
ternally could be moved for considerable distances without suffering 
severe damage. Even more striking was the fact that houses elevated 
on stilts a foot to several feet above the ground survived the waves much 
more effectively than did those built directly on the ground. Appar- 
ently the water was able to pass under such houses without greatly dis- 
turbing them, unless it was deep enough actually to float the house off 
the stilts. The few reinforced concrete structures in devastated areas 
suffered little or no damage except that caused by flooding. 

The railroads along the northern coast of Oahu and in Hilo were 
wrecked, partly through destruction of the roadbed, but largely because 
the tracks were shifted off the roadbed, either inland or shoreward. 
Locally rails were torn loose, but more generally the track was moved 
en masse, a motion probably aided by the buoyancy of the ties. Coastal 
highways also were partly destroyed, largely by undercutting as the 
water returned seaward, but partly by the direct force of the waves. 



274 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947 

Several highway and railway bridges were destroyed. Most appear to 
have been partly or entirely lifted from their foundations by the rising 
of the water under them. The head of the pier at Waianae, Oahu, was 
damaged in the same manner. At the Wailuku River, in Hilo, an entire 
span of the steel railroad bridge was torn loose and carried 750 feet 
upstream, passing under but not damaging a highway bridge. At 
Kolekole Stream, 11 miles farther north, an entire leg of the high steel 
railroad trestle was removed and carried upstream about 500 feet. 

Part of the end and much of the shed of pier 1 in Hilo was wrecked 
by the force of the wave. Most of the damage on pier 2, however, re- 
sulted when heavy pontoons, which had been moored nearby, were 
washed across the pier. The wharves at Kahului on Maui were flooded, 
but sustained little structural damage. 

The upper part of the breakwater at Hilo was about 61 percent de- 
stroyed (fig. 8) . Blocks of rock weighing more than 8 tons were lifted 
off the breakwater and dropped both inside and outside it. Destruc- 
tion was limited, however, to the part above water or that only slightly 
submerged. The average depth of water over the destroyed sections 
after the wave was only about 3 feet. The breakwater at Kahului, 
Maui, also suffered minor damage. At both Hilo and Kahului the 
breakwaters appear to have reduced materially the height and violence 
of the waves in the enclosed portions of the harbors. 

Many small boats were washed ashore and damaged. Railroad cars 
were overturned on Oahu, Maui, and Hawaii. Many automobiles were 
wrecked. The loose stone walls of fishponds along the southern coast 
of Molokai were partly thrown down. The mill of the Hakalau Sugar 
Co., situated only about 10 feet above sea level at the mouth of Haka- 
lau Gulch on the island of Hawaii, suffered severe damage. 

Erosion by the tsunami resulted in the partial removal of some sand 
beaches, in some places causing a retreat of the shore line for several 
tens of feet, cutting of small scarps, and forming of large beach cusps 
at the heads of beaches; locally, erosion caused stripping away of 
a small amount of soil. The erosion was largely concentrated high on 
the beach, several feet above sea level. Some of the sand from the 
beaches was carried inland and redeposited. At Haena, Kauai, the 
highway was buried under 4 feet of sand, and thinner layers of sand 
covered roads on Oahu. 

Flooding caused much water damage to house furnishings and 
personal property. 

LOSS OF LIFE AND PERSONAL INJURY 

The following table summarizes, by islands, the number of persons 
killed, injured, or missing as a result of the tsunami. The figures were 
supplied by the American Red Cross. Most of the deaths were by 
drowning. By far the heaviest toll was at Hi]o, with 83 known dead 



TSUNAMI OF APRIL 1, 194 6 — MACDONALD, ET AL. 







275 



« o 

-« 7^ 

a a! 

■-3 ^ 

o o 

o ^ 

^ O) 

^^ 

Co ca 



5 a 



5 

o 

1 


S§ 


-w 0) 




>j p3 


f 


j=i 




rs . 


'S 


m CD 


JZ ^ 


c 


o o 





rt T-( 


f. 


o « 




!-i 1-1 


n 


75 — < 


1 
£ 




Q 


•^ 'S 








5 a 




tc S 




a 2 




— o 




g i2 











K -« 



-o 


o 


c 


.K> 


m 


(4 




o 


CO 


a 


0) 


13 




a 


a 


a 


o 


w 






crt 




OJ 


? 






M oj 



<4-l Ci 

o £: 

I. OP 

I? 
o 

H 
1^ 



276 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947 

and 13 missing. Those listed as missing have been missing for more 
than 2 months, and must be presumed dead, bringing the total number 
of probable dead to 159. Great as it was, this loss of life was moderate 
compared to that in some other tsunamis, such as that of 1896 in the 
Sanriku district in Japan, which took more than 27,000 lives (Byerly, 
1942, p. 72). 



Table 2. — List of casualties during the tsunami of April 1, 19^6 


Island 


Known 
dead 


Missing 


Injured ' 


Homes de- 
molished » 


Homes 
damaged ' 


Hawaii 


87 
9 
9 


10 


34 
5 


5 


153 
2 



8 


283 
65 
67 
13 
60 


313 


Maui. - - 


144 


Oabu 


335 


Molokai 


14 


Kauai 


130 






Total - 


115 


44 


163 


488 


936 




1.59 





' Injury sufficiently serious to require hospitalization. 

• Homes only; other buildings not included. Data from Lewers & Cooke, Ltd. 

MITIGATION OF DISASTERS RESULTING FROM FUTURE TSUNAIVIIS 

There is no Hawaiian shore which is exempt from tsunamis. The 
most likely sources of devastating tsunamis are the North Pacific and 
South America. The areas heavily hit by the 1946 tsunami are prob- 
ably those most likely to be hit hard again by tsunamis from the North 
Pacific. Violent tsunamis from Central or South America might, how- 
ever, cause much more damage than did the 1946 tsunami along eastern 
and southern coasts. There is also possibility of serious damage on 
western shores by a tsunami from Japan, particularly if the tsunami 
occurred during a heavy southwesterly storm. Tsunamis of local 
origin might do heavy damage on any shore. 

It is obviously impractical to consider the removal of all dwellings 
from Hawaiian shores because of the danger from tsunamis. It might, 
however, be advisable to prevent or restrict building in certain areas 
of gi-eatest danger, particularly in centers of heavy population, such 
as the waterfront at Hilo. Construction of suitable sea walls might 
also be advisable in places. Sea walls cannot, however, be built high 
and strong enough to hold the water back completely, and an open 
zone should be left back of the wall in which the water pouring over 
the wall can use up its energy in turbulence. Any construction per- 
mitted in such areas should be of a wave-resistant type, such as rein- 
forced concrete. These wave-resistant buildings would have the added 
virtue of serving as a line of defense for frailer structures behind them. 
Frame structures in rural areas should be built up off the ground, and 
far enough back from the edge of the beach to reduce the danger of 
undercutting. They should also be properly reinforced and tied 
together. 



TSUNAMI OF APRIL 1, 194 6 — MACDONALD, ET AL. 



277 




pi 

So 
o 
o, 
o 



a 

•S 
o 



OS 



278 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947 

It appears inevitable that future tsunamis will cause loss of property 
on Hawaiian shores, but loss of life from all except tsunamis of local 
origin could be largely or entirely avoided. A system of stations 
could be established around the shores of the Pacific and on mid- 
Pacific islands, which would observe either visually or instrumentally 
the arrival of large long waves of the periods characterizing tsunamis. 
The arrival of these waves should be reported immediately to a central 
station, whose duty it would be to correlate the reports and issue warn- 
ings to places in the path of the waves. It should be possible in this 
way to give the people of the Hawaiian Islands enough warning of the 
approach of a tsunami to permit them to reach places of safety. The 
effectiveness of the warning, however, would depend on education of 
the public on the necessity for leaving areas of danger, and on the 
efficiency of the local organization in spreading the warning and evacu- 
ating the threatened areas. Eventually it should also be possible to 
state, at the same time, which areas are likely to suffer the most damage. 
Before that can be done, however, we need more knowledge of the 
behavior of tsunamis on Hawaiian shores, particularly tsunamis from 
sources in the eastern and western Pacific, and a more complete picture 
of the submarine topography around the Hawaiian Islands. 

SUMMARY 

The tsunami which reached the shores of the Hawaiian Islands on 
April 1, 194G, was the most destructive in the history of the Islands. 
Generated by a sudden shifting of the sea bottom on the northern 
slope of the Aleutian trough, the waves traveled southward to Hawaii 
with an average speed of 490 miles an hour, an average wave length 
of about 122 miles, and a height over the deep ocean of about 2 feet. 
Effects on Hawaiian shores varied greatly. Locally the water dashed 
more than 50 feet above sea level and swept as much as half a mile 
inland. Elsewhere the rise in water level was very small, and waves 
were gentle. Property damage was heavy but loss of life was moderate. 

The heights and intensities of the waves at different points were in- 
fluenced by position on the island toward or away from the source 
of the waves, offshore submarine topography, presence or absence of 
coral reefs, shore-line configuration, mutual reinforcement or inter- 
ference by waves traveling different paths, and the presence or absence 
of storm waves. Loss of property during future tsunamis can be 
reduced by proper construction, by erection of sea walls, and by re- 
stricting or prohibiting construction in certain especially dangerous 
areas. Loss of life can be nearly or entirely eliminated by the estab- 
lishment of a suitable system for warning of the approach of waves. 



TSUNAMI OF APRIL 1, 1946 — MACDONALD, ET AL. 279 

REFERENCES 
EODLE, R. R. 

1946. Note on the eartliquake and seismic sea wave of April 1, 1946. Amer. 
Geophys. Union Trans., vol. 27, pp. 464-405. 

ByESLY, Pe2UBY. 

1942. Seismology, x+256 pp., 58 figs. Prentice-Hall, New York. 
Gkeen, C. K. 

1946. Seismic sea wave of April 1, 1946, as recorded on tide gages. Amer. 
Geophys. Union Trans., vol. 27, pp. 490-500. 
Gbeen, Geokge. 

183S. On the motion of waves in a varialjle canal of small depth and width. 
Cambridge Philos. Soc. Trans., vol. 6, pp. 457-462. 
Gutenberg. Bend, and Richter, Charles F. 

1941. Seismicity of the earth. Geol. Soc. Amer. Spec. Paper 34, 131 pp., 17 
figs. New York. 

IMAMUEA, AkITUNE. 

1937. Theoretical and applied seismology. 358 pp. Tokyo. 
Jaggar, Thomas A., Je. 

1931. Hawaiian damage from tidal waves. Volcano Letter No. 321, pp. 1-3. 
Powers, Howard A. 

1946. The tidal wave of April 1, 1946. Volcano Letter No. 491, pp. 1-3. 
Shepard, FrjVncis p., Macdonald, Gordon A., and Cox, Doak C. 

The tsunami of April 1, 1946. Scripps Inst. Oceanogr. Publ. (In 
pi-eparation.) 
United States Navy Hyurographic Office. 

1&44. Breakers and surf. Publ. 234, 52 pp., 4 pis., 19 figs. 



777488—48 21 



Smithsonian Report. 1947. — Macdonald. Shepard, and Cox 



PLATE 1 




1. Wreckage le[ ! b , i ni_ i sunami Along Kamehameha avenue, hilo 

Buililiiiii.s on tile li'll-haml israwardi side of tho street have been pushed into the street, some more or less 
intact, others as heaps of debris. Photograph by Francis Lyman. 




2. House IN Keaukaha, Eas t of Hilo. Carried liLANO About 100 Feet by the 

Waves 

The house in the background was above the reach of the water. Photograph by G. A. Macdonald. 



Smithsonian Report, 1947. — Macdonald, Shepard, and Cox 



Plate 2 




1. Mouth of the Wailuku River at Hilo. Showing the Advance of One of 
THE Later Waves Into the River Mouth 

Photograph taken near the trough between two waves, showing very low water, and the waves starting up 
the river as the next crest approaches. The steel span from the distant railroad bridge is visible m the 
middle distance. Photograph by Francis Lyman. 




2. A Minute or so Later, the Waves Are Sweeping Turbulently up the 

RIVER 

Photograph by Francis Lymaa. 



Smithsonian Report. 1947. — Macdonald. Shepard. and Cox 




1 . THE VERY HIGH STAGE OF THE WATER. IN WAILUKU RlVER AT HiLO. REACHED 
3 OR 4 MINUTES LATER THAN THE STAGE SHOWN IN PLATE 2. FIGURE 2 

Photofiiuph by Warn'ii Fhigg. 




--^i...::',^^3s4^^. 



2. ScACf _ f EET High Cut by the tsunami at the Head of the Beach at 

MOLOAA. Kauai 

The roots were e.xposed by removal of the enclosing soil. Photograph by G. A. Macdonald. 



Smithsonian Report. 1947. — Macdonald. Shepard, and Cox 



Plate 4 




1. Railroad Track swept Inland From Its Bed at Waialee. Oahu 
Photograph by U. S. Navy. 




2. Coral Heads Thrown up on the Beach at Kaaawa, Oahu. by the tsunami 

Photograph by O. A. Macdonald. 



Smithsonian Report . 1947. — Macdonald. Shepard. and Cox 



Plate 5 











■'■-: .".ii^F. iLS>^^^2^^rJL:^^mi^ 




1. Grove of Pandanus Trees Pushed Over, and Blocks of Coral Thrown 

UP ON THE Shore Platform by the Tsunami near Haena. Kauai 

riiotograph by F. P. Shrpard. 




. ■aj*t •J''mafm.SJ<tt 



2. Small Boat Washed Inland and Left sinandld bn thl 

Pier 1 , Hilo 



jUnami Near 



Photograph t>>' ("t. A. Macdonald. 



DEOWNED ANCIENT ISLANDS OF THE PACIFIC BASIN 



By H. H. Hess 
Department of Geology, Princeton University 



PART I. DESCRIPTION 

A large number of curious, flat-topped peaks have been discovered 
scattered over millions of square miles in the Pacific basin. These 
peaks are roughly oval in plan and their slopes suggest volcanic cones. 
The remarkable feature about them is that they are truncated by a 
level surface which now stands approximately 750 fathoms (4,500 
feet) below sea level. For convenience in discussing these submerged 
flat-topped peaks which rise from the normal ocean floor, the writer 
will henceforth call them "guyots" after the nineteenth-century 
geographer, Arnold Guyot. 

Betz and Hess (1942) discussed the major features of the floor of 
the North Pacific. This was in the nature of a broad areal reconnais- 
sance of the largest features of this extensive region. Since 1942, 
Hess has spent 2 years at sea in the western Pacific and has thus had 
the opportunity to fill in some details which bring to light many new 
relationships and necessitate some modification of ideas originally set 
forth. The data presented in this paper were obtained on random 
traverses incidental to wartime cruising on the U. S. S. Cape Johnson. 
What passed beneath the ship was recorded but it was not feasible to 
investigate further such interesting features as were encountered. 
Nevertheless it is evident that much information can be obtained on 
the geological history of an oceanic area by judicious use of available 
techniques. It is a vast and intriguing field for research under more 
auspicious peacetime conditions. 

SCOPE or PRESENT INVESTIGATION 

From random sounding traverses across or merely grazing guyots 
an attempt will be made to construct a picture of their physical fea- 
tures. The data collected on the cruises of the Cape Johnson have 

* Presented before the Section of Tectonoph.vsics, American Geophysical Union, In 
Washington, D. C, on May 27, 1946. Reprinted by permission from American Journal 
of Science, vol. 244, November 1946, with added text and illustrations. 

281 



282 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947 

been supplemented by soundings obtained from the files of the Hy- 
drographic Office, United States Navy. The origin and age of the 
flat upper surfaces of guyots represent the main problem of this paper. 
Secondarily the relation of guyots to atolls of the northern Marshall 
Islands will be discussed. 

AREAL DISTRIBXTTION OF GXTTOTS 

The distribution of known and suspected guyots is shown in figure 1. 
Eoughly they are known to occur north of the Carolines and east of 













• 

• •iJO 








































•8*0 










•SSO 

* • 
• 














...... 


""• 




aoc* , 


UAHTI-dia • 

• 


• 
• • 

• • 


• 

• •J90 








• « 




• 
• 


HOC* 

. i "° 


• • 

•670 •800 ;2o» 
•soo 


• too 


• 


• 
• 700 

• 


''^^o''"" • 


• 

• S60»»e!0 






• 
• 


..«, 




n9» 

• 






• 










:'P 


.,_ ^ 






^ ^ ^...H.U., 


"5 











FiGUBE 1. — ^Areal distribution of guyots in the western and central Pacific. The 
numerals next to some of the guyots indicate tlie depth in fathoms to the flat 
upper surface. 

the Marianas and Volcano Islands between latitudes 8°30' and 27° N. 
and longitudes 165° W. to 146° E. None has been found west and 
south of the above boundaries though this area has been at least as well 
explored as the former. North and east of the region outlined above 
it appears from scattered soundings that the area containing guyots 



DROWNED ANCIENT ISLANDS — HESS 



283 



does extend to 45° N. to 165° W. Some of the seamounts in the Gulf 
of Alaska described by Murray (1941) almost certainly are guyots, 
whereas others appear to be of a different character. Twenty bona 
fide guyots were encountered at sea by the writer and some 140 more 
are indicated by soundings on Hydrographic Office charts and docu- 
ments. Considering sparseness of deep-sea soundings in parts of the 
area mentioned above, it is likely that a large number of undiscovered 
ones are present. 




FiGUBE 2. — Index map showing area included in figure 1. 



PHYSICAL FEATURES OF GUYOTS 

One of the best profiles obtained across a guyot was one encountered 
south of Eniwetok on October 6, 1944, in latitude 8° 50' N., longitude 
163°10' E. This guyot is about 35 miles in diameter at the base, and 
the truncated upper surface is about 9 miles in diameter. The top is 
remarkably flat at a depth of 620 fathoms.^ The outer rim of the top 
is beveled by a gently sloping shelf 1 or 2 miles wide (slope 2° to 3°). 
The outer margin of the gentle slope is about 70 fathoms deeper than 

* All soundings mentioned in this paper are uncorrected for salinity, temperature, and 
pressure, and were talien with fathometers set to a speed of sound in the sea water of 
4,800 feet per second. The corrections would be too small to be of signiflcance in this 
discussion. 



284 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 194 7 

the inner margin. This gentle slope breaks abruptly to 22° at its 
outer margin. The profile from the edge of the shelf to the normal 
ocean jQoor at 2,600 fathoms is, as might be expected, concave upward. 
From an average of 22° at the top it gradually decreases in steepness 
until it forms a smooth tangent with the ocean floor at the bottom. 




Figure 3. — Fathometer recorder trace of a typical guyot. Note irregularities on 
lower slopes with considerable thickening (lengthening) of the echo trace. 
These indicate steep slopes to the side (parallel to ship's course) and necessitate 
an adjustment to obtain the approximate depth immediately beneath the ship. 
The adjustment has been made in figure 4. 

Figures 3 and 4 are reproductions of the sounding traverse across 
the guyot. 

Guyots vary widely in size. One a few miles northeast of Eniwetok 
has a flat summit only a couple of miles across (latitude 11°45' N., 
longitude 162°55' E.) ; whereas one some distance farther northeast 
apparently has a flat upper surface 35 miles wide and has a diameter 
of 60 miles at its base (latitude 14° N., longitude 167°30' E.). In 
general they appear to be circular or oval in. plan. No correlation has 



DROWNED ANCIENT ISLANDS — HESS 



285 



been noted between the depths of the flat upper surfaces and the depths 
of the surrounding ocean floor, which normally ranges from 2,600 
fathoms (15,600 feet) to 3,100 fathoms (18,600 feet). The observed 
depths of the flat upper surfaces of typical guyots range from 520 
fathoms (3,120 feet) to 960 fathoms (5,760 feet), with most values 
concentrated near the center of this group (800 fathoms). Thus 
the guyots rise from 10,000 to 15,000 feet above the ocean floor. The 
flat tops of guyots in general do not exhibit accordance of summit 
levels. It is quite common to find groups of guyots in a relatively 
small area with flat tops varying several hundred fathoms from one 



I SLOPING I I SHELF I 

U- SHELF _^L, rL«t top ^U. iJ 




Figure 4. — This diagram was traced directly from figure 3 and adjustments for 
steep slopes to the side made. The vertical and horizontal scales and numerical 
values of the slopes in degree are given. 

to another among the group. Less commonly two or three guyots in a 
group will have approximately the same depth. 

A few guyots were found to have upper surfaces which were gently 
undulating rather than flat. These undulating or hummocky surfaces 
have a maximum relief of about 40 fathoms. In most cases the flat 
surface can be seen here and there in the profiles and it passes beneath 
the hummocky material (fig. 5). Judging from the evidence, most 
guyots have been swept clean of the fine sediments which must be 
continually settling upon them. In the case of the rare, hummocky 
ones it would appear that the fine precipitates had for some reason not 
been completely swept off. It is rather surprising that the normal 
guyots are swept clean since water currents at such depths as these 
are thought to be slight. One must look to occasional bottom stir-up 
by tsunami (Bucher, 1940), though possibly currents related to tides 
might be strong enough. Once the sediment on these isolated, flat- 
topped peaks is stirred up, very little of it would be expected to fall 
back on top of the guyot. It would be dispersed over the surrounding 
area. 



286 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 194 7 



1 




•«" 






1' 


/ 


'■■ 


















^ 




H^ 


i 


f^.- 
^ 


I'i 


) 


3 


) 


4 


) 


- 


> 


e 


) 


7 


yA 


^ 


si* 




i/ 


. t 






















^ 






30 




hi 


(; 


'hi 


■' 


i 


o" 


« 





e 





j 


10 


J,? 


fS 





g 


If 


38 


1! 


)0 


2' 




■^ 


































3C 


-', 




■: 


i 


«^*- 


-.-. 


-.-, 


-U. 


■'.' 


A 




..... 


^ 


_. 
















'> 


':^. 












^P^ 
















^■^ 




I: 














i^^T^ 












'■•■ 


1 






■f: 


-}; 












^R 














;j- 


r"' 




I 


:J^ 
















i^ 














-■ 


- 


6C 


Ej 


^..k 
















'I 


' t 


N-. 


fev 












j 




. 2 


3 


3 


D 


i 


D 







1 




li. 


1' 





U 


) 


1 


V 


■y^' 


























%.. 










a 


4' 


4 


10 


6 


10 


E 


id 


i( 


00 


. 


00 


? 








00 


i 


f 


iife^ 








c 


EP 


rH 


IN 


Ff 


TH 


DM 


S 






''■ 


N 




1 


i 
i 


1 





































Figure 5. — Guyot showing hummocky type of upper surface. 



Top of guyot 20 miles 
north of Eniwetok 




NAUTICAL MILES 



Figure 6. — Tracing of fathometer record shown in figure 5, adjusted and with 

scales indicated. 



DROWNED ANCIENT ISLANDS — HESS 



287 



Though few guyots sliow any suggestion of terraces on their outer 
slopes, one large guyot near latitude 20° N., longitude 148° E. has a 
well-developed flat upper surface at 800 fathoms, and projecting from 
under its southeastern margin there appears to be a terrace or older 
guyot with a flat upper surface at 1,100 fathoms. In the area between 
Wake Island and Johnston Island there are a number of normal guyots 
rising from hilly areas which have numerous flat or nearly flat sur- 
faces between 1,100 and 1,900 fathoms. These hilly areas with flat or 
nearly flat surfaces have as yet been insufficiently explored to under- 
stand the relationships they exhibit. They may represent areas of 
older, deeper guyots partly buried by sediments, but until a more 
detailed examination of them can be made, their nature will have to 
remain rather obscure. Such areas do not appear to be common 



/ \ 

1 I 




'^. V' "'1 

""^'eniwetokV 




\ ATOLL \ 


~^B 


/ 




\ 1 




^'\''' 




A 





FiGUBE 7. — Relation of Eniwetok Atoll to nearby guyots which are outlined on 

the diagram by dash lines. 

elsewhere. Some of Murray's Gulf of Alaska seamounts possibly also 
fit into this category. The great majority of guyots rise from the 
normal ocean floor. 



RELATION OP GUYOTS TO ATOLLS IN THE MARSHALL ISLANDS 

Many guyots are present in close association with atolls in the 
northern Marshall Islands. The present discussion is centered about 
Eniwetok Atoll of that group. This atoll apparently rests in part 
upon two guyots so that the flat upper surfaces of the guyots project 
out beneath its southern and northwestern slopes resulting in a well- 
developed bench on those sides at a depth of 700 fathoms. The eastern 
side of Eniwetok shows a normal atoll slope with no suggestion of a 
bench, and the central portion of the western side shows similar fea- 
tures. Figure 7 shows the relationship between Eniwetok Atoll and 
the nearby guyots, and figures 8 and 9 show two profiles, one approach- 
ing the passage between Japtan and Parry Islands from the east and 



288 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947 

the other approaching Wide Passage at the south end of the atoll from 
the south, which shows the giiyot apparently disappearing beneath the 
atoll slope. 

The absence of a 700-f athom bench locally around part of Eniwetok 
Atoll strongly suggests that the atoll and its volcanic core are younger 
than the benches which project from its southern and northwestern 
sides. The whole structure of the atoll, in other words, seems to have 
been superimposed upon the older and already existing surface of the 
guyots. Since it can, without too much license, be assumed that the 
other nearby atolls of the Marshall group developed simultaneously 
with Eniwetok, their slopes might be examined for ± 700-f athom 



\<<— ENIV/ETOK 






ATOLL 




200- 

400- 


afoll ^'^-^^,_^__^ 


_ 


<0 

0600 - 
^ ^ - 






guyot 




^N. ^800- 

\ 1000- 

^^200- 




COURSE ^ 
173' True ^ 










1 


12 3 4 5 






NAUTICAL MILES 



Figure 8. — Tracing from fathometer recorder of traverse extending southward 
from Eniwetok showing the atoll presumably superimposed upon a guyot (A-A 
of figure!). 

benches for further substantiation of the age relations postulated 
above. Only two of these have been adequately charted, Majuro and 
Kwajalein, and neither of them shows 700-f athom benches. When 
it is considered that a relatively small atoll such as Majuro shows no 
bench at 700 fathoms while not very far away a guyot has a truncated 
upper surface 35 miles across, it is evident that Majuro could never 
have been subjected to the conditions which planed off the 35-mile- 
wide surface of the guyot. 

PART II. THEORY 

The writer has given a great deal of thought to the problem of 
origin of guyots since first encountering them in 1944. In part I of 
this paper the physical features of guyots, so far as they are known, 
are described. It now remains to account for them. During the past 
2 years, many hypotheses were tried and discarded. Finally the writer 



DROWNED ANCIENT ISLANDS — HESS 



289 



arrived at the hypothesis here presented. Though it explains the facts 
at present available, it is highly speculative and might easily be 
wrong. Nevertheless, it seems worth presenting as a working hypothe- 
sis, particularly since it has many interesting ramifications, some of 
which would be worthy of investigation even if the parent hypothesis 
were found to be invalid. 

EXPLANATION OF DEVELOPMENT OF UPPER SURFACE OF GUYOTS 

When the writer first discovered guyots, he supposed that they were 
drowned atolls. However, this hypothesis proved untenable upon 




Figure 9. — Profile B-B of figure 7 showing normal atoll slope approaching 

Enlwetok from the East. 

further study. A profile of an atoll should show a rise along the outer 
margin representing the area of active reef growth and should be 
dished in the middle — the lagoon — unless it were filled in with yomiger 
sediments. On an atoll, the profile breaks abruptly outside of the 
living reef and descends in slopes averaging about 25°. There is no 
feature comparable to the gently sloping shelf found around the flat 
tops of nearly all guyots. In fact there seems to be no way of account- 
ing for these shelves unless the guyots had developed in a sea which 
did not support reef -building organisms. 

It may reasonably be assumed that guyots were originally volcanic 
peaks. After a long period of time they became stabilized and were 
eroded down to low relief. At this time they developed gently sloping 
shelves around them as might be expected in the case of a maturely 
dissected island. This was followed by a long period of marine 
planation, unhampered by reef growth, ultimately forming the flat 
upper surfaces. If marine planation cut the island down to about 30 
fathoms below sea level, then the outer margin of the gently sloping 



290 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947 

shelves, normally some TO fathoms deeper, would have originally 
represented approximately a 100-fathom curve around the island. 

Possibilities of accounting for the reef- free surface of the guyots by 
some connection with a glacial epoch were considered and rejected. If 
reef growth had been inhibited by a glacial epoch, the guyots would 
have had to have suffered marine planation followed by sudden subsi- 
dence to below the level at which reef growth would recommence at the 
end of the glacial epoch — a coincidence which makes the hypothesis 
very unlikely. The glacial epoch would have had to be a very long one 
to permit complete planation of the larger guyots. It cannot possibly 
be referred to the Pleistocene epoch since the Marshall Islands atolls 
are younger than the guyots and there could obviously not have been 
time for marine planation, subsidence, and upbuilding of the atolls 



A 






600- 

N. «oo- 


y^ 










\ooo- 


,' 


II' 55'N 164' 45 


E 




B 


1 2 S 


' 


5 

5 


NAUTICAL MILES 








800- 

1000- 

\ lEOO- 
\ 


r 








I7'N 








l77'gO'W 




\ ^ 



FiGUEE 10. — Profiles across two guyots. A is normal except that the gently sloping 
shelf is lacking on the right-hand side ; B is an example of the hummocky type 
of upper surface. 

all in this short epoch aside from the inconsistency that the cold water 
was called upon to keep the guyot surface reef -free but later on per- 
mitted the upbuilding of the atolls. 



GENERAL REI^^TIONS WITHIN PACIFIC BASIN 

Since it is difficult to discuss any theory of origin of guyots against 
the background of misconception and ill-founded theories which at 
present confound geologic literature on ocean basins and the Pacific 
Basin in particular, the writer proposes to wipe the slate clean and 
start on a new basis. 

The Pacific Basin is here considered to comprise the central portion 
of the ocgan and is bounded by an almost continuous belt of strong 
late Cretaceous-Tertiary mountain building. On the northern and 
western borders this belt is characterized by elongate deeps which lie 
over downbuckles of the earth's crust.* Related island arcs show 



» See the works of Vening Meinesz and others on gravityat sea. 



DROWNED ANCIENT ISLANDS — HESS 291 

intense volcanic and seismic activity.'* On the eastern margin are 
found the cordilleras of the North and South American west coasts and 
on the south littlQ-known Antarctica. The volcanic rocks of the 
islands of the Pacific Basin are dominantly basaltic, whereas those 
related to the island arcs and their uplifted cordillera equivalents are 
dominantly andesitic. The area of arcs and cordilleras bordering 
the Basin is tectonically the most active and unstable area of the 
earth's crust today. The Pacific Basin itself seems to be tectonically 
a most stable area and possibly has been throughout geologic time.^ 
One encounters no evidence of folding anywhere over its broad ex- 
panse. Though fault scarps can be found, their rarity bespeaks great 
stability. Seismic activity in the Pacific Basin is almost nil. 

The writer favors Buddington's (1943) concept of the nature of the 
earth's crust and considers that the suboceanic crust probably consists 
of horizontally layered rocks including such types as norite, gabbro, 
anorthosite, pyroxenite, peridotite, dunite, and probably some eclogitic 
facies. These are relatively strong rocks — stronger than the granitic 
to quartz dioritic rocks which presumably make up the "granitic" 
layer of continents. The writer believes the oceanic crust is very 
strong though this opinion is at variance with existing textbooks and 
much of the current literature. However, Jeffreys (1929), Daly 
(1940), and Longwell (1945) all favor a strong oceanic crust. The 
only bases for judging its strength are its behavior and the strength 
of the rocks of which it is thought to be composed. Both of these 
indicate strength. The reason it has been generally considered to be 
weak, appears to be related to calling it the exposed sima or the 
basaltic substratum and consciously or unconsciously bringing in 
Daly's theory of a weak glassy basaltic substratum. But Daly post- 
ulated a strong crust and weak substratum at considerable depth. 
Those favoring the hypothesis of continental drift assumed a very 
weak basaltic crust below th^ oceans without, so far as the writer 
is aware, presenting evidence other than the hypothesis of drift to 
substantiate assumption. 



* There Is penernl agreement as to the position of the "andesite line" along the western 
margin of the Pacific Basin except for the area of the Carolina Islands. Some place these 
Insifle and some outside of the "andesite line." The writer tentatively includes most of the 
Carolines in the Pacific Basin and traces the "andesite line" down their western margin 
Including Ulithi, Tap, Ngulu, and the Palaiis hehind — on tlie west side of — the "andesite 
line." This is essentially the same as the line drawn liy Hobbs (1944). 

* Having obtained considerable first-hand Information in the Pacific diiring the past 
few years the writer must now revise the views expressed in Betz and Hess (1942). The 
tentative trend lines shown on the chart should be considerably reduced in number by 
eliminating practically all of northeasterly trends. Further development of the bottom 
topography shows that they do not exist. The hypothesis that certain linear groups of 
islands and shoals, particularly tlie Hawaiian group, lie along a major earth fracture which 
may be a strilce-slip fault is retained. The rclationsliip on a small scale of the volcanic 
activity to fractures has been demonstrated by Stearns and MacDonald in Samoa and 
Hawaii. The trends of these fractures are approximately parallel to the elongation of 
Samoa and the elongation of the Hawaiian chain. 



292 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947 

Many authors have correlated the observation that island arcs (and 
hence mountain building) develop in the oocean basins along the 
margins of continents with the concept that the continental massifs 
are strong and the oceanic crust weak, thereby accounting for the 



localization. However, if mountain-building forces are related to 




FiGUBE 11. — Fathometer recorder trace of guyot in latitude 14°20' N., longitude 
165°55' W. Ship's speed, 13.7 knots; course 059° true. 

convection currents within the earth (Griggs, 1939), the most satis- 
factory of the present theories, then the localization can more reason- 
ably be explained on the basis of heat relations within the crust. 
Being warmer under continents and cooler under oceans the down- 
ward-flow part of the convection cell would be more likely to be 
localized under the ocean and would be supplemented in some cases by 
the outward flow of warm material from beneath the continental area. 
Having concluded that the Pacific Basin was in general strong and 
stable, it is now appropriate to turn to exceptions in detail to these 
generalities. All volcanic islands of the ocean basin proper (exclud- 
ing from this discussion the highly unstable island arc areas) are 
subject to frequent vertical movements as long as vulcanism is active. 



DROWNED ANCIENT ISLANDS — HESS 



293 



In this sense they are unstable. The expansion during magma genera- 
tion, injexjtion of magma into the crust below the volcano, crystalliza- 
tion of magma and contraction, extrusion of magma from a central 
vent and isostatic adjustments to the load, out-fiow of weak oceanic 
clays from beneath the volcanic load, etc., all tend to result in vertical 
movements of the volcanic island. Such islands may have terraces 




Figure 12. — Fathometer recorder trace of guyot near latitude 21° N., longitude 
173° E. Ship's speed, 13.5 knots; course 059° true. 

extending to hundreds of feet above sea level and at the same time 
have drowned shore lines and exhibit a series of submerged terraces 
as well. Once this vulcanism dies, the island will probably become 
stable. Of the hundreds of atolls and banks with their volcanic 
pedestals beneath them, one can find very few in the Pacific Basin 
which have had their coral reefs uplifted by as much as 150 feet.* 



« Vening Meinesz (1941) reexamines gravity <!ata for oceanic islands. Though large, 
local, positive, isostatic anomalies are found on sucli islands, the regional anomalies show 
that such small islands are regionally and not locally compensated and thus closely approach 
isostatic equilibrium. This Indicates a geologically rapid adjustment to the disturbance 
of equilibrium brought about by vulcanism. 



294 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947 

Aside from vulcanism and its effect of producing local points of 
instability, convection currents of lesser intensity than those produc- 
ing island arcs may result in vertical movements of the suboceanic 
crust at times. 

HYPOTHETICAL DEVELOPMENT OF THE HISTORY OF THE PACIFIC BASIN AND 

THE ORIGIN OF GUY0T8 

Most discussions of Pacific historical geology jam all the known 
history into the late Tertiary, Pleistocene, and Recent ages. To be 
sure the rocks visible on the surface of volcanic islands are mostly very 
young, predominantly Recent plus some Pleistocene, and very rarely 
rocks that can be demonstrated to be as old as Tertiary. Many writers 
seem inclined to place Pacific atoll formation in the Pleistocene though 
others extend it back into the Tertiary (Stearns, 1946). On the other 
hand, the Pacific Basin is generally considered to be very old, probably 
dating from early pre-Cambrian time (Kuenen, 1937). It seems 
reasonable to suppose that volcanic activity in the Pacific Basin and 
hence island formation has gone on sporadically since early pre-Cam- 
brian. Vvliere then are the pre-Cambrian, Paleozoic, and Mesozoic 
islands? In order to answer this it is necessary to digress along 
several other channels. 

Any island formed in the Basin can be assumed to have begun as a 
volcano or group of volcanoes. After vulcanism ceased and the island 
had become stabilized, the following sequence of events would neces- 
sarily take place. The island would be eroded to low relief, and after a 
long period of time (providing growth of reef -forming organisms did 
not interfere) the island would completely disappear as a result of 
marine planation. Such must have been the fate of all pre-Cambrian 
islands before reef -forming organisms existed. 

Kuenen (1937) and 1941) has concluded that there has been little 
change of sea level since early pre-Cambrian time. He estimated that 
the rate of sedimentation in the deep sea is approximately 1 cubic 
centimeter in 10,000 years for red clay, since the end of the pre-Cam- 
brian, and 1 cubic centimeter in 5,000 years for globigerina ooze. Since 
most of the material deposited on the ocean floor has ultimately come 
from the continents, isostatic adjustment of the load on the sea floor 
and the loss of weight from the continents has resulted in the sinking 
of the former and rise of the latter so that the relative sea level with 
respect to the continents has not changed very much. One obviously 
cannot put a layer of several thousand feet of sediments into the oceans 
without causing the water to rise by an equivalent amount (less the 
water included in pore space in the sediments ) . Thus, quite apart from 
the discussion of isostatic adjustment mentioned above, every centi- 
meter of sediment put into the ocean causes sea level to rise with respect 
to an oceanic island by just a little less than^a centimeter (less by the 



DROWNED ANCIENT ISLANDS — HESS 



295 



amount of water in pore space of the sediment) . Even though the fig- 
ure cited for the rate of sedimentation may be inaccurate it neverthe- 
less follows that oceanic islands are and have always been slowly sink- 
ing relative to sea level. 

It stands to reason that once lime-secreting organisms appeared in 
the oceans, presumably in Cambrian time they would grow upon any 
available shallow, wave-cut platform and both tend to protect it from 
further wave action and build it up to sea level. These reef- forming 
organisms need not have been very efficient reef builders to keep pace 
with a settling rate of 1 cubic centimeter in perhaps 5,000 years. So 





Figure 13. — Sequence depicting diagrammatically guyots and atoUs in steps of 
decreasing age. C R stands for Cenozoic and Recent ; M, Mesozoic ; P, Paleozoic. 
In upper half of diagram the effect of the limestone load on atolls is neglected 
to illustrate the original depth relations to the volcanic foundations. In the 
lower diagram the effect of load has been added. 

that beginning in Cambrian time every island in warm seas which at 
that time had not been submerged below the level at which these or- 
ganisms could live, would be built up to sea level or nearly to sea level 
and could henceforth maintain its growth. In other words all Pale- 
ozoic, Mesozoic, and Tertiary islands which were eroded to low relief 
and submerged in warm seas must inevitably become banks or atolls 
and be maintained as such throughout the remainder of geologic time 
except for the interference of some rare diastrophic accident. Epochs 
of glaciation might inhibit growth of reef-forming organisms tem- 
porarily. But these epochs are too short to permit the islands to sink 
to such a level that erowth would not recommence with the return of 
warmer water. 

We may now turn to the ultimate objective of this long series of 
digressions, the guyots. It is proposed that they represent the relics 



777488 — 48- 



-22 



296 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947 

of pre-Cambrian islands formed by the processes suggested above. 
Tbe group of guyots with which we have been mainly concerned range 
from 520 to 960 fathoms (3,120 to 5,760 feet) below sea level. Ac- 
cepting Kuenen's figures for accumulation of sediments, at least 2,000 
feet of sediments (solid) would have been deposited in the deep sea 
since pre-Cambrian time. The great bulk of sediments, however, are 
deposited along continental margins, on the shelves, slopes, and shal- 
low epeiric seas. It is almost impossible to estimate the amount of 
water displaced by these inasmuch as a thickness of tens of thousands 
of feet may displace only a relatively small amount of water since 
the bottom of such basins of sediments tend to sink isostatically under 
the load. These thick prisms of sediments may at a later time be 
deformed and welded to the continents, thereby enlarging the con- 
tinents at the expense of the oceans. Certainly these processes have 
decreased the areal extent of the oceans a considerable if unpredictable 
amount since the end of the pre-Cambrian. If sediments deposited in 
shallow waters around the continents displaced only half as much 
water as deep-sea sediments, an estimate which seems to the writer 
to be on the conservative side, then one could account for a rise of sea 
level relative to an oceanic island of 3,000 feet (500 fathoms) since 
the end of the pre-Cambrian which is comparable to the present depth 
of the shallowest guyots. Thus we might attribute most guyots to a 
Proterozoic episode of vulcanism. The occasional, less well-preserved 
surfaces mentioned in the text, having depths between 1,100 and 1,900 
fathoms might be older and well back in the pre-Cambrian in age. 

RECOMMENDATION FOR FUTURE RESEARCH 

With the above hypotheses in mind it would be exceedingly interest- 
ing to drill a hole 5,000 feet deep in the center of a Pacific Basin atoll. 
It is necessary to avoid the outer margin of the atoll since it may well 
have built outward over its own debris. From another point of view, a 
hole drilled on the southern rim of Eniwetok would almost certainly 
penetrate into the underlying guyot at a depth of approximately 4,200 
feet. It would be extremely interesting also to make magnetic surveys 
of a number of atolls to estimate the depth to the volcanic core and 
perhaps couple such an investigation with seismic and gravimetric 
work. Bottom samples with the Piggot sampler taken from the flat 
tops and gentle marginal slopes of guyots might bring up some of the 
rock of which they are formed, provided these surfaces had been swept 
completely clean of sediments. Pleistocene to Recent banks in high 
latitudes where cold water would inhibit growth of reef -forming or- 
ganisms should be investigated to compare their profiles with those 
of the guyots. A further investigation of Murray's seamounts in the 
Gulf of Alaska might furnish some of the missing clues to the origin 



DROWNED ANCIENT ISLANDS — HESS 297 

of guyots, and might, if the hypothesis here presented is correct, show 
features exactly comparable to guyots but at depths shallower than 
500 fathoms. At the latitude of the Gulf of Alaska the water may 
have been too cold for reefs to gTOW on the platforms. 

ACKNOWLEDGMENTS 

The writer wishes to thank Dr. J. Brookes Knight, Prof. F. A. 
Vening Meinesz, Prof. A. F. Buddington, Prof. Charles Steel, and 
Dr. J. C. Maxwell for reading the manuscript and offering numerous 
valuable criticisms. The writer also wishes to express his appreciation 
to his quartermasters on the U. S. S. Cafe Johnston for the care with 
which they took soundings while at sea, in particular QMl/c Kobert 
Kiefer, QMl/c R. K. Pritchard, QM2/c H. Jensen, and Q^I3/c Frank 
Grumblatt. W. Miner Buell, Jr., of the Hydrographic Office, United 
States Navy, was very helpful in collecting data on ocean-bottom fea- 
tures from documents in the Hydrographic Office, and many of the 
data were plotted by Ensign William Roche and Miss D. Trussell of 
that office. 

FURTHER COMMENT ON GUYOTS AND ATOLLS IN THE LIGHT OF 
RECENT INFORMATION 

Since the above paper was first written investigations of Bikini Atoll 
have yielded important information, in particular the seismic profiles 
reported on by Dobrin, Suavely, White, Beresford, and Perkins (1946) . 
Further comment seems desirable on the problems suggested by this 
information. 

The seismic profiles indicate the presence of a rock comparable 
to basalt below the atoll. This high-velocity material reaches a maxi- 
mum depth of 11,000 feet on the eastern side of the atoll, but rises 
to a[ depth of 5,500 to 6,000 feet not far from the southern rim, at a 
point slightly to the west of the north-south center line of the atoll. 
The western third of the atoll was not investigated during this survey. 
Since the highest point on the "basalt" surface lies on the western 
margin of the area investigated, it is possible that this "basalt" rises to 
a level nearer the surface somewhere in the vicinity of the western 
or southwestern rim of the atoll. 

It is evident from the survey that the volcanic core of the atoll 
forms a peak located eccentrically with respect to the present atoll 
structure. Textbook diagrams have led most of us to expect that the 
volcano would be nicely centered beneath the lagoon. A logical con- 
sideration of the proposition would have indicated that the peak of 
the volcanic core should lie not under the center of the atoll, but more 
or less displaced toward the lee side with respect to the prevailing 
winds, for reef growth is more rapid and vigorous on the windward 
side. The same conclusion was implicit in the results of the Royal 



298 



ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947 



Society investigation of Funafuti (1904). In that case a magnetic 
survey was made before the boring was attempted. The results showed 
a magnetic high close to the western margin, on the lee side. It was, 
therefore, deemed desirable to drill on the western margin, but un- 
fortunately it was not possible to get the equipment on this location 
so the boring was made on the eastern rim instead. (See figs. 14 and 
15.) 

In 1944 the writer found a guyot centered about 20 miles northwest 
of Bikini and made four NE.-SW. profiles across it. During the 
Crossroads Operation the Navy surveyed this guyot, making a number 



SEALEVEL 



eoola 



ISOSTATIC \SETTLING AS 
A RESULfVOF LOAD 




FiouEE 14. — Relations between the top of a late Pre-Cambrian guyot and the vol- 
canic core of an old Paleozoic atoll. Settling because of loading by limestone 
has depressed volcanic core of the atoll below the level of upper flat surface of 
guyot. 

of NW.-SE. sounding traverses over it, so that its outline and form 
are now well known. It has a flat upper surface at 700 fathoms (4,200 
feet) and is separated from the northwestern slope of Bikini by a low 
saddle. 

If the writer's hypothesis were correct, that the surface of the guyot 
became submerged in pre-Cambrian time before the appearance of reef - 
building organisms, how could nearby Bikini Atoll have grown up 
from a peak which is now deeper, i. e., 5,500 feet below sea level? 
This peak would be more than a thousand feet below the top surface of 
the guyot. It might be supposed that the peak under Bikini comes 
much closer to the surface west of the investigated area, and therefore 
might have been both younger and higher than the adjacent guyot 
surface. Thus it would have been able to support reef-building 
organisms after the guyot was planed off. However, let us disregard 
this possibility for the moment and consider the more fundamental 



DROWNED ANCIENT ISLANDS — HESS 



299 



relationships which should apply to the depths of guyot surfaces with 
respect to the depths of atoll cores. According to the writer's hypoth- 
esis, the atoll cores should be j'ounger than the youngest guyot surfaces 
and should have once projected sufficiently above these surfaces (closer 
to sea level) so that lime-secreting organisms would grow upon them. 
Considering the Bikini results, it is evident that an old atoll will have 
many thousands of feet of limestone deposited on its core. The mass 
represented by this material is in excess of that which the earth's 
crust could bear without yielding. Isostatic adjustment will, there- 
fore, take place. As a result of this adjustment to loading, the peaks 
of the cores of old atolls must necessarily be considerably deeper than 




FiGUBE 15. — Sketch showing the effects both of loading by limestone and of 
asymmetrical growth of atoll — more rapid growth to windward toward the 
right side of the diagram. Note that the high point of the volcanic foundation 
now lies beneath the lee side of the atoll and that the fomidation has been tilted 
somewhat by the load. Overlying old atoll surfaces are also tilted but progres- 
sively less as the surface is approached. 

the upper surfaces of the youngest guyots, as illustrated in the accom- 
panying diagrams (figs. 13, 14, 15). The settling in the case of 
Bikini from this change might be estimated roughly as perhaps 3,000 
feet. 

There was implicit in the original paper a general theory of atoll 
development in oceanic areas. Island arc areas were specifically ruled 
out since they present a very different problem. Much confusion has 
resulted in the past from lumping the two. The theoiy was close to 
Darwin's original concept, but substitutes slow rise of sea level by 
partial filling of the ocean basins with sediment for subsidence of 
undetermined cause. True, there are many reasons why a young 
oceanic volcano should subside, such as isostatic settling of the load 
represented by the volcano, squeezing out of weak oceanic clays from 
beneath the volcano, consolidation by crystallization of the magma 
in the chamber beneath the volcano with consequent decrease in 
volume, etc. But all these are comparatively short-lived and could 



300 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 194 7 

only explain subsidence in the early stages rather than the apparent 
long-continued relative subsidence of many oceanic atoll groups. 

While the main mechanism of oceanic atoll formation as envisioned 
by the writer is the slow rise of ocean level, further subsidence of the 
atoll isostatically to compensate for loading by the limestone deposited 
is a necessary corollary. It is emphasized that this isostatic settling 
must be a secondary consequence and not a primary factor in atoll 
formation since the settling will always be much less than the thick- 
ness of the limestone deposited. More rapid reef growth on the wind- 
ward side will ultimately result in the eccentric location of the under- 
lying volcanic pedestal which is displaced relatively toward the lee 
side. This also causes eccentric loading, as shown in figure 15, and 
should result in a tilting of the original volcanic core and of old, now 
deeply buried, atoll surfaces.^ 

BIBLIOGRAPHY 
Betz, F., and Hess, H. H. 

1942. Geogr. Rev., vol. 32, pp. 99-116. 

BUCHEK, W. 

1940. Bull. Geol. Soc. Amer., vol. 51, pp. 489-511. 

BUDDIiS'QTON, A. F. 

1943. Amer. Mineral., vol. 28, pp. 119-140. 
Daly, R. A. 

1940. Strength and structure of the earth. Prentice Hall, New York. 
Dobbin, M. B., Snavelt, B. L., White, G., Beeesford, R., and Perkins, B., Jr. 

1946. Seismic-refraction survey of Bikini Atoll. Bull. Geol. Soc. Amer., 
vol. 57, p. 1189 (abstract). 
Griggs, D. 

1939. Amer. Journ. Sci., vol. 237, pp. 611-650. 
HOBBS, W. H. 

1944. Proc. Amer. Philos. Soc, vol. 88, pp. 221-268. 
Jeffbets, H. 

1929. The earth. Cambridge Univ. Press. 
Kuenen, Ph. H. 

1937. Amer. Journ. Sci., ser. 5, vol. 43, pp. 457^68. 

1941. Amer. Journ. Sci., vol. 239, pp. 161-190. 

LONGVPXLL, C. R. 

1945. Amer. Journ. Sci., vol. 243A, pp. 417-447. 
Murray, H. W. 

1941. Bull. Geol. Soc. Amer,, vol. 52, pp. 333-362. 
Royal Society of London. 

190^1. The atoll of Funafuti. 428 pp. 
Stearns, H. T. 

1946. Amer. Journ. Sci., vol. 244, pp. 245-262. 
Vening Meinesz, F. A. 

1941. Nederl. Akad. Wetensch., Proc, vol. 45, No. 1. 



'' Since preparation of this discussion, the report on drilling of Biliini Atoll has been 
presented before the Geological Society of America (Ottawa, December 1947) by Ladd, 
Tracey, Lill, Wells, and Cole. Calcareous sediments were found to the bottom of the hole 
at 2,554 feet. Miocene fossils were identified from 1,305 feet. The hole was drilled on the 
windward side of the atoll where the thickest Cenozoic section should occur (see fig. 15 
above). 



THE BIOLOGY OF BIKINI ATOLL, WITH SPECIAL 
KEFERENCE TO THE FISHES 



By Leonard P. Schultz 
Curator of Pishes, U. S. National Museum 



[With 17 plates] 



The fpurtb and fifth atomic bombs were exploded over and in 
Bikini lagoon in 1946. A year later in 1947, the palms were still 
waving in the tropical breeze, the pandanus was fruiting, the tacca or 
arrowroot foiTned tubers in the soil, and a new plant, the papaya, was 
bearing delicious fruit. It had sprung from seeds left by the retreating 
hordes of men. A lone dog wandered on Bikini Island, a cock was 
crowing on Enyu Island, and the little brown rat was scampering 
about at night. Birds flew overhead and fishes swam in the lagoon 
nearly as abundantly as a year ago. 

Along the outer edges of the reefs in the crashing and foaming surf 
life went on as before. The large purple slate-pencil sea urchins, 
holding their positions by bracing their spines into crevices and irregu- 
larities, were everywhere along the lithothamnium ridge. Farther 
inward on the flat area in broad, shallow depressions were vast numbers 
of the black sea cucumber, often concentrated by the dozens in pools. 
Ghost crabs, leaving their sandy burrows at night, ran along the sandy 
beaches. Their slower relatives, the hermit crabs, labored along, 
carrying heavy snail shells on their backs. On land the nocturnal 
coconut crab came from hiding to feed on the coconut, or the female 
went down to the sea, to dip her tail into the water, causing thousands 
of eggs to hatch the moment they were moistened. 

Yet, with all this life going on normally at Bikini, one should not 
feel a false sense of security; the atomic weapon is terrible. The 
radiations emanating from the isotopes resulting from the atom bomb 
explosions are dangerous to animal and plant life. The lower animals 
can withstand greater amounts of radiation than the vertebrates, but, 
among the latter, man and the other mammals are most sensitive. 

The explosion of the Baker Day blast was so powerful that it could 
have lifted an entire fleet of battleships high into the air as easily as 
a summer wind blows thistledown across a field. The concussion in a 
limited area from such a sudden explosion caused great mortality 

301 



302 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947 

among aquatic life ; hundreds of dead and dying fish were seen floating 
in the lagoon waters shortly after and for a few days. Great quan- 
tities of oil were released from the stricken ships. It floated and was 
driven by the wind onto coral and algal growths, smearing shellfish 
and echinoderms on the reefs, causing additional mortality of organ- 
isms in limited areas. 

BIOLOGICAL EXPEDITIONS TO BIKINI 

Under the direction of Commander Roger Revelle, U. S. N. R., and 
Lt. Comdr. Clifford A. Barnes, U. S. C. G. R., an expedititon sailed 
from San Francisco in February 1946 on the U. S. S. Bowditch, 
returning to the United States in September. Assembled on this ship 
were numerous scientists representing the fields of biology, oceanog- 
raphy, and geology. It was the purpose of this group to map and 
study Bikini AtoU in a thorough manner before the explosions so that 
if the atomic bombs caused any profound changes these might be 
detected. As control atolls, extensive biological studies were made at 
Rongelap, Rongerik, and Eniwetok in the northern Marshall Islands. 

A second expedition, the Bikini Scientific Resurvey, left San Diego 
July 1, 1947, on board the U. S. S. Chilton for the purpose of deter- 
mining changes that had occurred as a result of the Crossroads Opera- 
tion of 1946. This resurvey, made under the direction of Capt. C. L. 
Engleman, U. S. N., returned on September 11 to San Diego. 

The biological field work in the northern Marshall Islands consisted 
of making extensive collections of the flora and fauna, and of taking 
statistical samples of the populations of the marine animals. 

The botanical studies were made by Dr. William R. Taylor, Uni- 
versity of Michigan, during 1946. In 1947 the physiology of aquatic 
plants was undertaken by Drs. L. R. Blinks and P. M. Brooks, Stanford 
University, California. The marine invertebrates were studied by Dr. 
J. P. E. Morrison and F. M. Bayer of the Smithsonian Institution, 
Washington, D. C. During July and August 1947, Dr. D. M. Wliit- 
aker, Stanford University, made special studies on the echinoderms ; 
Dr. A. C. Cole, University of Tennessee, on the insects ; and Dr. Robert 
W. Hiatt, University of Hawaii, on the food of fishes. Dr. M. W. 
Johnson, Scripps Institution of Oceanography, made extensive col- 
lections of plankton, and Dr. D. B. Johnstone, New Jersey Agriculture 
Experimental Station, studied the microbiology of Bikini during 1946. 
The geology of Bikini and other Marshall Islands was studied by 
Dr. Harry S. Ladd, Dr. J. Harlan Johnson, Joshua I. Tracey, of the 
United States Geological Survey, aided by Dr. John W. Wells, Ohio 
State University, and Gordon G. Lill, Office of Naval Research, Geo- 
physics Branch. Dr. K. O. Emery, University of Southern California, 
mapped the bottom geology of Bikini. The 2,556-foot deep hole was 



BIOLOGY OF BIKINI ATOLL — SCHULTZ 303 

drilled by the G. E. Failing Supply Co., under the direction of the 
geologists. 

The study of the effect of radiation on marine animals, especially 
fishes, was made during 1946 and 1947 by the University of Washington 
group under the direction of Drs. Lauren K. Donaldson and Arthur J. 
Welander, School of Fisheries, Seattle. 

Since fishes represented the group of animals of greatest economic 
importance in and around the atoll, emphasis was placed on them. 
Statistical studies were attempted in 1946 and 1947 with the view 
of measuring the relative abundance of fishes, those caught by trolling, 
and on the reef by other means. The pelagic kinds — tuna and their 
relatives — were caught by commercial fishermen^ using trolling meth- 
ods. This work was under the immediate supervision of John C. 
Marr and Osgood R. Smith, United States Fish and Wildlife Service. 
Similar population studies were made of the lagoon and reef fishes 
by Vernon E. Brock, director, Division of Fish and Game, Territory 
of Hawaii, Dr. Earl S. Herald, United States Fish and Wildlife Serv- 
ice, and Dr. Leonard P. Schultz, curator of fishes in the United States 
National Museum, Smithsonian Institution. The latter and Loren 
P. Woods, curator of fishes, Chicago Natural History Museum, are 
preparing a descriptive catalog of the fishes of the northern Marshall 
Islands. 

BIKINI ATOLL AS A FISH HABITAT 

Bikini Atoll in shape resembles a bathtub, except that its sides are 
cut through by several deep channels. It is about 22 miles long by 13 
miles wide, inclosing a lagoon whose depth is mostly 180 feet with 
a few areas down to 200 feet. Rising from the lagoon floor are large 
coral heads, a few of which come near the surface, whereas around 
the margins of the atoll reef are more coral heads that reach the sur- 
face. The lagoon floor slopes gradually upward from its deeper parts 
to those areas exposed during the low tides. The bottom is composed 
of loose sand, fragments of calcareous algae, and coral remains, on 
which are growing a great variety of sessile invertebrates, aquatic 
algae, and into the rocky fragments worms burrow. In otherwise un- 
used crevices, fishes hide. 

SANDY AREAS 

Considerable areas adjoining the rim of the atoll in the shallower 
parts of the lagoon are composed of loose sand. In places where this 
sand is continually shifting, no corals occur, but where it remains 
stable small isolated ones from a few inches to 2 or 3 feet high occur. 
These areas are somewhat barren of fish life. 

Usually around coral clusters are a few kinds of damsel fishes, one 
or two species of wrasse, scorpion fish, often gobies and blennies. 



304 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947 

Small schools of the black-banded damsel fish, Dascyllus aruanus, 
when disturbed, seek shelter in closely branching coral heads. They 
remained within it while we broke loose from the bottom the entire 
growth in order to carry it ashore. There the coral, with its fish and 
crustacean inhabitants, was broken into fragments, and its denizens 
were picked up without a single individual escaping. 

Swimming in schools over these broad, sandy stretches are yellow- 
streaked goatfishes, harvest fish, threadfins, jacks, mullets, lizard 
fishes, sand perches, and sometimes a few flatfishes (Bothidae) . Cruis- 
ing around individually are black-tipped sharks. In holes in the 
sand can be seen a species of large goby with a prominent blue streak 
across its cheek. Snake and worm eels burrow in the loose gravel 
and sand of the bottom. Giant tridacna lie on the bottom, with their 
beautifully iridescent mantles exposed to the flickering sunlight. 

Big sting rays occasionally are seen on the bottom in 10 to 30 feet of 
water. Vernon E. Brock, assisted by Dr. Kobert Hiatt, speared one oflP 
Eman Island in 20 feet of water, while skin diving. The capture of 
this dangerous fish, with its venomous sting, was a remarkable feat. 
Brock swam down over the fish and drove a spear into it, then grabbed 
the end of the spear, pulling the hundred-pound creature toward the 
surface, but had to come up for air, and it went down. Once again 
he tried, and this time with Dr. Hiatt's aid brought it up, all the time 
keeping away from the lashing tail of the ray. After a desperate 
struggle, it was speared again and finally brought alongside the row- 
boat from which they were operating. It is now preserved in the 
United States National Museum along with about 50,000 other fish 
specimens collected during 1946 and 1947 in connection with the atom 
bomb experiments. 

OORAL AND ALGAL AREAS 

From this somewhat barren sandy habitat, there occur all gradua- 
tions in abundance of coral heads with algae up to the stage where 
they are so close together that there is scarcely room to step between 
them. More often the channels between the corals are 3 to 15 feet 
wide, and some reach 30 feet or more in width. This type of habitat 
may occur in the lagoon, in the wide passes, or on the ocean side of 
the atoll rim. 

Where the corals and algal growths are luxuriant, over 200 species 
of fish occur and were regularly captured through the use of rotenone. 
However, during 4 hours' work, the maximum number taken at a 
single station was 136 at Erik Island, Bikini Atoll. 

Although the smallest fish known, a fresh-water goby from the 
Philippine Islands, is not found at Bikini, one of its relatives is a 
close runner-up. The Philippine goby measured 9 or 10 millimeters 
(three-eighths of an inch), whereas the smallest Bikini fish, the goby 



BIOLOGY OF BIKINI ATOLL — SCHULTZ 305 

Emota^ when adult and sexually mature was 15 millimeters or five- 
eighths of an inch long. This contrasts sharply with a 10-foot wide 
nianta ray weighing about 700 pounds, taken in Enyu passage. The 
largest lish, however, was caught by the commercial fishermen at 
Bikini in over 40 feet of water. It was a tiger shark measurhig 13 
feet 11 inches long, with an estimated weight of considerably over 
half a ton. 

Living in the branching polyps of the coral Acro'pora^ was the little 
yellowish goby, Gobiodon citHnus, which had during July and August 
prepared a nest and laid eggs in it, Gobiodon cleared off a small 
area, three-fourths of an inch by 2 inches long, at the base of a coral 
branch arising near the center of the colony. On this carefully pre- 
pared spot, a thin growth of green, purplish, or brownish-colored 
algae occurred. 

Acropora responded to the presence of Gobiodon and formed a 
slightly raised rim around the nesting area. This goby, only about 
an inch long, then deposited a small cluster of eggs in the shallow 
depression and both parents remained to protect their home. Each 
Qgg was attached to a gelatinous substratum by a short adhesive stalk 
with the head of the embryo on the opposite end. Among these eggs, 
numbering 100 to 200, was a fine, branching, filamentous red alga. 
The oblong eggs were close together but not crowded. 

Another remarkable association between a fish and an invertebrate 
host occurred in this same habitat. On the lagoon floor in a few feet 
of water down to depths of 20 feet or more lives a globular starfish, 
Culcita Twvaeguinae^ that reaches the size of a man's head. We found 
in its body cavity, in about half of those investigated, a nearly trans- 
parent 6- to 10-inch-long eel-like fish — the pearlfish, Carapiis. We 
kept one of them in a jar of water, noticing the very slow rate of 
respiration and its ability to live in sea water with a low amount of 
dissolved oxygen. Because Campus was transparent, the circulation 
of the blood was observed clearly. 

FLAT PAVEMENTLIKE AREAS 

The nearly flat pavementlike areas on the atoll reef are carpeted 
with a layer of tiny f oraminifera and vinelike algal growth, forming 
a mat 1 or 2 inches thick. West of Bikini Island, such a reef is trans- 
versed with numerous "cracks" or shallow grooves only a few inches 
deep. In other places there are vast areas incompletely drained 
during low water, leaving shallow tidal pools only an inch or two 
deep. In these occur a few species of blennies, gobies, and sometimes 
a large number of the blackish sea cucumber. Whenever these de- 
pressions retain about a foot of water, corals begin to grow and the 
animal life increases. 



306 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947 

As the tide rises and the surf breaks over the lithothamnium ridge, 
then surges several inches deep across this flattened part of the reef, 
great schools of blue-green and dark-red parrot fishes, Scarus, often 
with their backs exposed in the shallow water, move about on the reef, 
grazing like a herd of sheep on the algae growing there. Their tooth 
marks, remaining on the rocks, are easily observed. Wlien the water 
deepens to a foot, surgeon, needle, trumpet, halfbeaks, damsel, goat- 
fishes, mullet, and dozens of other kinds appear. The black-tipped 
shark, Eulamia malanoftera^ with its black-tipped fins sometimes 
exposed, cruises around on the reef, too. Although they are speedy 
swimmers, a man with a rubber sling and spear, or with a gun, may 
capture them without difficulty. 

ISOLATED TIDAL POOLS AND SOLUTION CHANNELS 

Around the shores of certain islands are small tidal pools and solu- 
tion channels that are eroded in the limestone beach rock. They re- 
main more or less filled with water at low tide. These depressions are 
from a few inches to a foot deep, with rounded smooth sides. They 
vary from a few inches to a few feet in width. Some appear as shal- 
low pot holes but with the seaward side cut away. On the bottom in 
favorable places were accumulated coral fragments and occasionally 
pieces of beach rock. 

During the period of low tide, several kinds of blennies appeared to 
be trapped in the pools. They remained motionless with their tails 
curved to one side, then suddenly, when disturbed, would flip through 
the air from one pool to another over the rocky ledges. Their agility 
and speed of traveling over "dry land" astounds one on his first visit 
to a reef. The young of Kuhlia^ mullets, and damsel fishes regularly 
remain in these shallow pools. The goby Bathygohius is a frequent 
inhabitant, too. Hiding or trying to hide among the loose beach rocks 
and in the pools was the black speckled moray eel, Gym/nothorax picta, 
sometimes curled between black sea cucumbers. As the incoming tide 
rose and refilled the solution channels and pools, the dark-banded 
damsel fish, Ahudefduf septemfasciatus^ returned to its favorite habitat 
along the very edge of the beach rock. 

LITHOTHAMNIUM RIDGE 

The outer margin of an atoll rim on the ocean side usually consists 
of the slightly raised pink to red-colored lithothamnium ridge con- 
trasting beautifully with the deep blue ocean beyond. It is dissected 
by rugged surge channels and deep pools often 20 feet deep directly 
connected with the ocean. This ridge, creviced and pitted with holes, 
is about a foot or two higher than the flat part of the reef farther 
inward and varies in width from 40 to 100 feet. At extremely low 



BIOLOGY OF BIKINI ATOLL — SCHULTZ 307 

tides it is exposed except as the surf crashes over it, then some of the 
water is forced back over the flat part of the reef, flowing seaward again 
through the surge channels. 

Some of the surge channels, extending for 100 feet or more back into 
the solid reef, are more or less roofed over or with perforations large 
and small through which the water may pour or spout on the incoming 
surge of a wave. They are lined with rich green and red algae, blue, 
red, yellow, and green corals, and a host of brilliantly colored fishes 
live in these clear waters. 

The red calcareous algae forming the chief surface growth on this 
ridge were minutely pitted and creviced. Living among these perfora- 
tions were several fishes, characteristic of the area. The little blunt- 
headed blenny, Cirripectes^ appeared to favor this habitat, along 
with pseudochromids, especially Plesiops. Numerous too was a little 
viviparous orange-colored brotulid, several kinds of wrasse, eels, and 
small filefishes and puffers. 

In the surge channels were the pempherids, surgeon and butterfly 
fishes, and hiding during the day in the dark crevices were the bright 
red soldier or squirrel fishes that come out at night to feed. Inver- 
tebrates characteristic along this narrow zone were the slate-pencil 
sea urchins and in the deeper crevices and pools the venomous sea 
urchin with its long, purple, needlelike, poisonous spines. Octopi 
were common, along with several kinds of shrimp and crabs. 

OPEN-WATER HABITAT 

Contrasted with the atoll rim and its coral-algal growths was the 
open-water habitat of the atoll, in which a great variety of fishes 
thrived that never sought the protection of the reefs. In these waters 
occurred very small fishes, moderate-sized ones, and the giants. Some 
are predaceous — the tunas, jacks, and sharks — whereas others, such 
as the manta and the round herring, lived by feeding on the small 
pelagic organisms in the water. This latter species, 2 or 3 inches 
long, occurs in big schools. It was seen daily near the ships anchored 
in the lagoon. 

Cruising slowly around Bikini lagoon, one saw now and then big 
manta rays. However, in the middle of the broad Enyu channel, 
during 1946 and 1947, almost every day one to several occurred at 
at the surface with the tips of their broad pectoral fins moving slowly 
up and down. 

To capture one of these giant fish, 10 feet across, required prepara- 
tion. A spear, fitted on the end of a long wooden shaft, with lines 
attached, was made. To the spear point was fixed about 75 feet of 
tiller rope lashed to an empty steel drum with the excess rope wound 
around it. This gear was then placed at the bow of a picket boat, 



308 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947 

in a favorable place for throwing the spear the moment a big ray 
was approached. Standing poised, a man cast the spear into the head 
of a big fellow. The pole came oiit of the spear point, and was hauled 
aboard by the attached line. The tiller rope unwound from the float- 
ing drum as the ray soimded. Then, for nearly half an hour, the big 
manta tired itself out on the floating buoy. Finally, it was killed by 
rifle fire. 

This harmless ray measured 9 feet 8 inches across and took 8 men to 
haul it up on the deck of the boat. It has at the front of its head, 
on each side, a long fleshy cephalic lobe, used to direct a current of 
water into its big, almost toothless mouth. This pair of lobes resembles 
the wings of the trawl and served the same purpose. Within the 
mouth, along the sides, are very fine-meshed gill rakers, serving to 
strain the planktonic organisms from the sea water that passes in 
the mouth and out the gill openings. The stomach of this big ray 
contained a few quarts of larval crustaceans. 

Another group of fishes, the sharks, attracted attention. Although 
several kinds were encountered, such as tiger, bullhead, and whaler 
sharks, the most common were black-tipped, white-tipped (fins), and 
the gray shark. The latter species, not exceeding 7 feet in length, 
outnumbered all the others. 

One night in Boro Passage, a picket boat was anchored for the 
purpose of catching sharks. Tuna fish caught that day by trolling 
along the outer reef and through the passages were passed through 
a small sausage grinder, and the chopped up meat and blood was 
cast slowly into the channel waters that were flowing outward. Within 
a short time, sharks were chummed to the boat by the presence of 
blood in the water. Then chunks of tuna meat, the size of a man's 
fist, were thrown into the water and others placed on big steel hooks. 

The gray sharks struck these baited hooks with greed and speed. 
They jumped from the water. Several would rush the bait and each 
other as they fed voraciously. At the end of a few hours, 29 sharks 
measuring from 3 to 7 feet had been successfully landed on the boat. 

USE OF BOTENONE IN COLLECTING KEEF AND LAGOON FISHES 

Methods of collecting fishes at Bikini included baited hook and 
line, trolling, spearing, dredgmg, attracting them to a surface light 
at night, and the use of various nets. The most important was the 
use of powdered plant roots to stupefy fishes, and since our methods 
of using it on coral reefs are unpublished, they are herein described. 
Powdered cub^ or derris root with 5 percent of rotenone content has 
been used by various ichthyologists for nearly 40 years to collect fishes 
for scientific purposes. Dr. Carl H. Eigenmann, during field work 
in South America in 1908, probably was the first ichthyologist to 



BIOLOGY OF BIKINI ATOLL — SCHULTZ 309 

use vegetable poisons, although aboriginal natives in nearly all parts 
of the world have made use of them. Since that time most American 
ichthyologists have used vegetable poisons to collect fishes for scientific 
purposes. Drs. Eigenmami and W. R. Allen, University of Kentucky, 
describe methods of collecting fresh-water fishes in their 1942 pub- 
lication, "The Fishes of Western South America." 

From 1936 to 1938 the author experimented with the use of pow- 
dered derris root in fresh-water streams, and during the second World 
War, with the rotenone extract; the latter, however, did not appear 
to be as effective as the powder. It was not until 1939 that an op- 
portunity came to carry on extensive experiments. Upon arrival in 
the Phoenix Islands, he found practically no enclosed tidal pools, 
the type of habitat in which ichthyologists had previously used ro- 
tenone fish poisons in small quantities. The reefs were flat, pavement- 
like structures, with narrow to wide channels, connected with open 
water, whereas the deepest isolated pools left at low tide were only 
a few inches deep and often lacked fish. 

A large variety of fishes could be seen swimming in the chaimels, 
in the open waters, and even in the ocean surf. These had to be 
collected somehow. After carefully studying the currents and esti- 
mating the depth of water, the author attempted the use of rotenone 
in the open water among the corals and algae. At the end of July 
1939, after 4 months' continuous work in various coral-reef habitats, 
methods of using rotenone in open-water situations had been per- 
fected and, as a result, over 14,000 excellent fish specimens were 
recovered for the United States National Museum. 

When the author was asked late in 1945 about obtaining samples of 
shallow-water reef fishes at Bikini, Operation Crossroads, for pur- 
poses of determining the relative abundance of fishes before and after 
the atomic explosions, he suggested the methods developed in 1939. A 
few months later, during March to August 1946, and again in July 
and August 1947, fishes were collected by the use of rotenone. Differ- 
ent techniques were applied depending on the situation. As a result, 
there were taken over 70,000 fish specimens on which systematic and 
population studies could be based. Part of these were discarded after 
data from them were recorded. 

Thirty-five minutes before the tide reached its lowest point, the dry 
powdered root was placed in buckets or any suitable containers and 
mixed with water to a thick chocolate malted milk consistency, allow- 
ing about 20 minutes for one man to mix 25 pounds. By squeezing 
and stirring with the hands as water was gradually added, the powder 
soon formed a thick mud. Ten minutes before low water, the dis- 
tribution of the mixture began. The stupefying of a great variety of 
fishes with rotenone was most successful at the lowest stage of water. 

The success of this operation depended on determining the strength 



310 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947 

of the currents and depth of water. A little of the mixture was tossed 
into the water and the direction of movement of the small, light 
brownish cloud, watched. After several such tests, assistants, each 
with a bucket or two of the mud, were stationed in the water and the 
distribution began. In water 4 to 5 feet deep, with a slow current, 
the mud was thrown out, permitting the little pellets to dissolve as 
they settled toward the bottom, forming a light brownish cloud. 
Twenty-five pounds of the dry powder formed a cloud about 100 to 
150 feet long by 50 to 75 feet wide. It was highly eflFective if it took 
10 minutes to pass any one point in water above 80° F. When used 
at lower temperatures the fishes must be exposed for a longer time. 
Usually a part of a bucket of the mud was reserved to strengthen the 
cloud after it had traveled a few hundred feet. This precaution was 
advisable, since the currents did not always behave as predicted. 

SHALLOW-WATER REEF 

Through experience it was learned which shallow-water habitats 
(to a depth of 10 feet) were suitable for collecting fish with rotenone. 
An area with an abundant growth of coral heads in about 3 to 4 
feet of water, down to 10 feet in pools, with narrow to wide channels 
between the various kinds of corals, and a wind blowing the surface 
water more or less shoreward, was the most ideal situation. 

Many kinds of fishes in the areas treated floated for a few minutes, 
then sank to the bottom. Some were picked up while they were vio- 
lently swimming more or less in circles. A greater quantity of fish 
appeared at the surface than were recovered immediately. Those 
that drifted ashore were recovered, but those that got over deep water 
were often lost. 

Immediately after introducing the rotenone, recovery of the fish 
started, but it was inadvisable to enter the area in which the treated 
water would flow, since that drove the unaffected fishes away. As soon 
as the water cleared, those fishes that settled to the bottom were col- 
lected. Two or three men continually wandered over the treated 
area, picking up the specimens in fine-meshed, bobbinet dipnets, 14 
or 15 inches in diameter and 25 to 30 inches deep, with a 4- or 5-f oot- 
long, light-weight wooden handle. 

As the water-laden cloud of rotenone drifted onward for a thousand 
feet, it spread out, gradually becoming so diluted that it lost its effec- 
tiveness. Wlien the water appeared as a light, tan-colored cloud, it 
was most effective since it retained its stupefying properties yet was 
not so much concentrated as to be detectable by most fishes. Sharks, 
apparently able to detect small amounts of the rotenone in the water, 
left the area until the cloud had passed. They then returned to feed 
on the sick and dead fish, sometimes becoming troublesome. With 



Smithsonian Report, 1947. — Schultz 



Plate 3 




1. Bikini island as Seen from the lagoon. August 1, 1947 




2. The U. S. S. "Chilton Headquar i f f.;-w:)F r he n: i- 
OF 1947, OFF Bikini Island 



lENTIFIC RESURVEY 



Smithsonian Report. 1947. -Schultz 



Plate 4 




The G. E. Failing Co Drilling a Deep Hole on Bikini island, 1947 




2. Commander Roger Revelle and Dr. 
Brought up From 



Harry Ladd Examining a Fossil 
a Deep Hole 



Smithsonian Report. 1947. .S,hu'iy 



Plate 5 




1. Surge Channels (Dark Patches in Foreground) Bisecting the Lithgthamnium 
Ridge at Ocean Edge of Atoll Rim 




2. Sand Ski I > White Foreground) That Connects With Bock Island on Rongerik 

Atoll 
The island is covered with trees. 



Smithsonian Report. 1447. Schult/ 



Plate 6 




1. Dr. Robert Hiatt Holding a Coconut Crab Taken on Nanu Island, Bikini Atoll. 

August 1947 




2. A Small Species of Goby Guarding Eggs and Nests Built in the Coral Acropora 

I'hotogiuiih taken in July 1947. 



Smithsonian Report. 1947. — Schultz 



Plate 7 




1. Slate-Pencil Sea Urchin 
This was abundant on the lithothamnium ridge both in 1946 and 1947. 




2. Capt C. L. Engleman iLEFTi AND A Navy Diver Have Just Brought up a 40-1nch- 
LoNG Clam, the Giant Tridachna 



Smithsonian Report. l'*^7. Schultz 



Plate 




1 . Vernon E Brock. With the Giant Sting Ray That He Speared in 20 Feet of Water 




Osgood Smith Recording Data on Troll-Caught Tuna Fishes at Bikini. 1947 



Smithsonian Report. 1947. — Schultz 




1 I Hh Y hi lijw Puffer 
Like others of its kind, this fish inliates itself with water or air as a means of defense. 




2. The Parrot Fish 
This fish, when living, is brilliantly colored witli red, green, and blue. 



,iths..ni,,n Report, l>)47. S luilt/ 



PL.ATF ]() 








, - ♦«'»,. ■•^J£ "•Si» , J&C 



iuKf- Crashing Over the Lithothamnium Ridge at Ocean Edge of Atoll Rim at 

Bikini 




2. A Group of Bikini 1 nhabitants at Rongerik Atoll in 1 947 



Smithsonian Report. 1947. — Schultz 



Plate 1 1 




1 . Zanclus Canescens 




2. One of the Numerous Kinds of Butterfly Fishes, Chaetodon mertensis. Taken at 

Bikini 



Smithsop.ian Report. 1947. Schultz 



Plate 12 




1 . The Red Snapper, Lutjanus bohar 



iJ 




2. The Dog-Toothed Tuna. Gymnosarda Nuda 




3. One of the Pelagic Snappers Aprion virescens 



Smithsonian Report. l')47. Srlmltz 



Plate 13 




1 . A Voracious Shark, Carcharhinus albimarginatus 




2. The Devil Ray, Manta Alfredi 



Smithsonian Report. 1947.— Schultz 



Plate 14 




I . Dr. William R. Taylor. Searching Through a Dredge Haul for Algae Taken From 
THE Bottom of Bikini Lagoon 




2. The Dredge Used for Bottom Samples of Marine Invertebrates and Algae 








a: o 

3 Z 



>- 



z I 

1--Q 

0< 
O I 
;^ >- 

t UJ 



?U) 



I- P 




O r> o 



Smithsonian Report. 1947. -Schultz 



Plate 16 



^ ->¥*■ 

%*:' c 



^0«e>^' 




The Author Spreading THE Last OF theCubf Root M ix i ure Ovlk a Ht t i inShal.low 

Water 




2. Dr. Earl S. Herald and the Author Recovering Fish During a Population Study 

AT Bikini Atoll 



Smithsonian Report. 1947. -Schultz 



Plate 17 



%• 



■*s,. 



~x 





I iN(-, Fish Were Recovered Ovt 




2. A Large Coral Block Was Used as a L/5,boratory for the Preservation of Fishes 
During Low Tide on a Reef 



BIOLOGY OF BIKINI ATOLL — SCHULTZ 311 

only one or two 3- to 6-foot-long sharks feeding on the sick fish, the 
diver can keep watch of them. However, when two or three of these 
voracious creatures became too boUl, as happened on one or two oc- 
casions, the ichthyologists left the water. 

The searching for the demobilized fishes was done by means of a 
face mask covering eyes and nose, swim fins on the feet, and a dipnet. 
With a face mask, both hands were free to devote to picking up fishes, 
some of which were rather slippery. A canvas glove as an aid for 
holding slippery fish was used on one hand when necessary. Some 
of the fishes affected appeared lifeless, but when touched were found 
to be very much alive and quickly moved away unless caught in the 
dipnet. Those fishes too small to pick up with the fingers were, with 
a little practice, lifted from the bottom by inducing upward currents 
through rapid movement of the hands or feet. A fish, thus suspended 
for a few moments, was scooped up in the dipnet. Desirable fishes 
frequently swam into the crevices of the corals and erected their spines, 
making their removal difficult. With clear vision through the face 
mask, these, too, were collected. 

A rubber boat, tied to one of the coral heads, served as a base from 
which to work and was an added safety in case someone ran into 
trouble under the rugged conditions under which we worked. This 
boat held the preserving tank, and other gear. Three good swimmers 
at Bikini picked up enough fish to keep one man busy preserving the 
specimens in the rubber boat. On shore, one ichthyologist and a Navy 
photographer took over 300 color pictures. 

Those fishes first to be affected by the rotenone were the damsel, 
cardinal, butterfly, surgeon, and puffers; others such as needlefish, 
half beaks, goatfishes, gobies, jacks, threadfins, and mullets were a 
little slower in reacting to the treated water. The burrowing fishes, 
namely, eels, appeared last, probably because it took longer for the 
rotenone to diffuse into their habitats. Fish continued to appear for 
over 6 hours after treatment, and I recovered eels that came out 8 
hours after the cloud had passed their burrow. 

Care was exercised in picking up supposedly dead spiny fishes, and 
especially moray eels, since they may inflict serious wounds. Scorpion 
fishes, siganids, and other venomous species, even the stinging corals 
and jell}' fishes, were treated with respect. 

The snake eels often appeared with about 6 to 12 inches of their 
head section above the bottom. I grabbed them firmly and quickly, 
then pulled out the remaining 2 or 3 feet of their bodies. A light touch 
or a miss when grabbed usually caused the eel to withdraw into its 
burrow, and the specimen was lost. 

The rotenone appeared to affect the fishes by constricting the capil- 
laries of the gills, depriving the animals of an adequate oxygen sup- 

777488—48 23 



312 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 194 7 

ply. They left their hiding places for more oxygen, thus exposing 
themselves under a weakened condition and simplifying their capture. 

Shallow tidal pools that trap fish at low tide are simple to work, 
but the use of rotenone in the ocean surf on the ocean reef of a coral 
atoll requires special technique. 

Rotenone was used successfully along the lithothamnium ridge in 
the ocean surf. The "mud" was administered a few minutes after the 
low point of the tidal cycle. An area was selected where pools oc- 
curred but which were not completely connected with the surge chan- 
nels. These pools were desirable as settling basins for the sick and 
dying fishes. The area between two or three surge channels, where 
the waves flow inward across the ridge was the place where we placed 
the rotenone mixture. Big handfuls of the thick mud were thrown 
out as far as possible into the backwash of a wave. The next moment 
the oncoming breaker churned the water into foam and carried the 
water-laden cloud of rotenone inward, spreading it over the area and 
into the numerous crevices; then it flowed out the surge channels. 
Soon the rotenone cloud was distributed along the ocean edge of the 
reef, and some was brought back again over the lithothamnium ridge. 
The continual surging inward of the water brought in the sick fish. 
Men were stationed along the surge channels to take fishes that were 
being swept out to sea and perhaps lost. After the pools and channels 
cleared, the bottoms were searched for fishes by the skin divers. 

The use of a face mask in skin diving and swimming enables one 
to see clearly for 50 to 100 feet in the lagoon and ocean waters. Look- 
ing down in the surge channels between the corals, one sees a gorgeous 
display, a colorful marine garden of coral algae and fishes. Some of 
the corals are fan-shaped, others resemble the antlers of deer. They 
are blue, bright green, red, brown, yellow, and purple, contrasting 
with the white foraminiferal sand of the bottom. 

The light from the tropical sun flickers down into these enchanted 
caverns, filled with the blue sea. The trembling shafts of light illum- 
inate the green, brown, and red algae, waving in the dim light. Fan- 
tastically shaped fishes, as if from another world, dart about, reflect- 
ing their weird color combinations of brilliant blues and sapphires, 
greens, and yellows, red or scarlet, and with black and white markings 
contrasting sharply. Some have big red spots, others sapphire-blue 
bars and dazzling yellow and crimson stripes. 

Butterfly, damsel, surgeon fishes and wrasse lazily swim about in the 
aquatic caverns and channels, but the moment a large predaceous fish 
appears they seek protection, disappearing there, reappearing here, 
among the coral growths. Some swim as easily sidewaj's and upside 
down as in a vertical position. The view of this gorgeous marine 
garden fades away into nothingness a hundred feet or more below. 



BIOLOGY OF BIKINI ATOLL — SCHULTZ 313 

DEEP-WATER USE OF ROTENONE 

Vernon E. Brock and Dr. Earl S. Herald, two ichthyologists who 
are excellent swimmers and skin divers, successfully carried on sev- 
eral deep-water poisonings of fishes with powdered cube root. They 
mixed in the usual manner about 35 pounds of the substance, then 
placed 5 to 10 pounds of the "mud" in desert water bags. Equipped 
with standard U. S. Navy shallow-water diving outfits, Brock and 
Herald took the rotenone to the bottom, distributing it around coral 
growths. Down below with the usual dipnets, they recovered fishes, 
bringing them to a man at the surface, who preserved the specimens. 
This deep-water work was necessary to obtain a more complete pic- 
ture of the fish fauna of Bikini and the change in kinds of fishes at 
various depths in the lagoon. Several fish species occurring over the 
shallower parts of the reefs normally are not found at depths below 
10 or 20 feet, whereas some kinds below that depth are not taken 
near the surface. 

COLLECTING WITH A LIGHT AT NIGHT 

A bright light suspended from a small ship at night at the surface 
of the sea attracts to it myriads of nocturnal organisms — crustaceans, 
worms, squid, octopi, and numerous species of fishes. Silversides, small 
wrasse, round herring, the pelagic stages of goatfishes, surgeon fishes, 
puffers, lizard and file fishes dart in and out of the field of illumina- 
tion. Large flying fishes, a foot or two long, come swimming or flying 
toward the light at night. Down below a few feet, larger predaceous 
fishes can be seen rushing about feeding on the abundant animal life. 
Eager collectors gathered above this light on a platform, and with 
fine-meshed dipnets scooped up the animals, preserving thorn for 
future study. 

Several kinds of fishes and invertebrates taken around the light were 
never collected by any other means at Bikini. 

UNDERWATER TELEVISION 

At Bikini in 1947 I saw demonstrated the Navy's new underwater 
television, prepared and operated by the Cornell Aeronautical Labora- 
tory', Buffalo, N. Y. The camera end of this remarkable devise was 
set up on the deck of the sunken submarine, Apogon, in IGO feet of 
water. It was sufficiently sensitive to daylight to give clear and precise 
images on the screen in the control and observation room of the U. S. S. 
Coucal. The color patterns of fishes were portrayed in pale greenish 
light with distinctness as they swam in front of the lens. I identified 
with ease two species of pigfish (Lethrinus), the trumpet fish {Fisfu- 
lana), a jack {Cara?ix), the moorish idol {Zanchis), and Siganus 
pv.nctatus. 



314 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 194 7 

This apparatus opens up new fields of investigation in the study of 
aquatic animals in their natural habitats. Scientists and laymen who 
wish to study animal behavior will be able to do so now without the 
dangers of deep-water diving. The applications of underwater tele- 
vision to biological research is of the same magnitude of importance 
as the discovery and first use of the microscope. 

BIKINI'S BIOLOGY, PAST AND FUTURE 

Bikini's ecology was disturbed, not only through the atom bomb ex- 
plosions, but by the presence during the Crossroads Operation of a 
great armada of ships, with about 45,000 men, dumping garbage and 
debris into the lagoon waters. This, together with the blasting of 
coral heads in preparation for the great anchorage, made the water 
turbid and increased the sedimentation in certain areas. During 
March and April 1946, corals could be seen at a depth of 120 feet at 
midday, but during July of both 1946 and 1947 coral heads were 
scarcely visible at depths of 35 feet off Bikini Island. These changes 
appear to have been confined to the eastern and northern reefs off 
Bikini Island in the lagoon, whereas the southern and western reefs 
showed little change. The water there was as clear as in the early 
part of 1946. 

Open ocean waters are relatively barren. Organic matter and dis- 
solved nutriments in the sea are very slight. An atoll, however, is a 
very rich area of living plants and organisms. It is an oasis in an 
aquatic desert. Its reefs support luxuriant growths of algae, coral, 
and vast numbers of animals. This richness results from the conser- 
vation of organic matter by the living forms. 

Organic matter is not lost in the complicated food chains of the 
living organisms. They may die in the lagoon waters, but are imme- 
diately devoured by the scavengers — crabs, lobsters, shellfish, fishes, 
worms, coelenterates, and echinoderms — which in turn are eaten by 
predaceous animals. Plant life is consumed by the vegetable-eating 
fishes and other creatures. Coral polyps are fed upon by certain file 
fishes, whereas parrot fishes scrape algae off the corals. Even through 
the death of a 10-ton shark or manta ray, the organic matter is not 
lost. It appears in the form of tiny organisms such as bacteria, worms, 
and crustaceans. These in turn form the plankton — the chief food of 
numerous fishes. Thus the atoll becomes a great storehouse or reser- 
voir of living organisms competing for every bit of nourishment. 

The aquatic plants extract carbon dioxide from the sea water. Both 
plants and animals deposit calcium carbonate in building their cal- 
careous skeletons, which remain after death. The organic matter is 
re-used by the living, and the skeletons of the dead remain to build 



BIOLOGY OF BIKINI ATOLL — SCHULTZ 315 

up the solid rocky atoll, leaving scarcely a trace of the animal proteins 
in the limestone reefs or in the bottom deposits of the lagoon floor. 

The antiquity of such an isolated atoll must be very great to have 
accunuilated through the eons of time such a tremendous variety of 
animals and plants — to have deposited nearly two miles of animal and 
plant remains on top of a volcanic mountain top. 

The distribution of this great variety of animal life that now lives 
at Bikini and on other isolated atolls must have been accomplished 
through pelagic stages — free-floating eggs and larvae — across vast 
stretches of the open ocean. Fishes that build nests in the corals and 
are without such a means of dispersal from one atoll to another, or 
from island group to island group, have in many instances differen- 
tiated sufficiently from their neighboring allies to be recognized as dis- 
tinct species. Those with pelagic stages usually are distributed ex- 
tensively, some ranging from Easter Island to the Red Sea. There 
apparently has been enough interchange of individuals to keep each 
of these widely ranging forms breeding as a single species. 

That Bikini and the northern Marshall Islands have some endemic 
species of fishes is highly probable. Our recent ichthyological investi- 
gations mdicate that in about one-third of the fish families studied, one 
or two new or previously unloiown species occur. These are being 
described along with every other kind of fish from Bikini, and the 
publication of this material should make it possible to detect in 
the future any anatomical changes that might be induced by the 
Crossroads experiments. 

The mystery of the biological changes resulting from radiation are 
little known. In that great natural laboratory, they are difficult to 
observe and more difficult to measure. The time is too short since Able 
and Baker Days for the radiation to have caused observable anatomical 
changes in the animals, if any have occurred. Undoubtedly, alpha, 
beta, and gamma rays will be emitted for years to come, and how those 
rays will afl^ect tlie somatic and genetic cells of the organisms at Bi- 
kini is yet to be discovered. Undoubtedly there has been and will be 
sterilization of sex cells and the destruction of red blood cells, neo- 
plastic growths may form, and possibly mutations will appear. 

Any organism that changes morphologically to any extent may not 
be adapted to compete in the continuous struggle for existence, or if 
weakened by the fission products, may have little chance of survival 
in the keen competition that exists. These unfit animals soon form 
part of the food chain in the intense struggle of life. The carnivorous 
fishes, feeding on the algal eaters that fed on contaminated algae, are 
in turn exposed to the isotypes and their radiations. Thus, during 
the course of a few years, nearly every lagoon fish may be expected to 
have been subjected to the radiation effects, at least in a small way, of 
the atomic bomb. 



316 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 194 7 

Undoubtedly, countless animal individuals have perished at Bikini 
because of the atomic bomb experiments and still others may perish. 
But this destruction of life in a large atoll like Bikini amounts to 
only an extremely small percentage of the total animal life. The over- 
all picture of life on the reefs has changed little because beneath this 
surface layer, and from extensive adjoining unaffected areas, indi- 
viduals have come forth to repopulate and occupy the reefs. The pres- 
sure of population from all sides into the damaged areas is very great 
and soon replaces the losses. Thus nature begins the repopulation 
cycle, and, if given sufficient time, the wounded reefs will be cleansed 
of their contamination, biological equilibrium will be reached, and life 
will establish itself as in past millenniums — similar to that before man 
released the greatest destructive force in his history. 



THE SENSES OF BATS 



By Brian Vesey-FitzGerald, F. L. S. 



[With 4 plates] 



Of all the many problems which bats set for the inquiring naturalist, 
none has been more puzzling than that presented by their flight at 
night: the way in which they catch the insects upon which most of 
them feed (in the case of British bats, upon which all of them feed) 
without colliding with objects in their path. The flight of bats is rapid 
and the course erratic, frequently through thick woods or the narrow 
winding passages of caves, often in total darkness. It has always 
seemed unlikely that animals with such small eyes could see well enough 
in the dark to fly in such surroundings without mishap. Many experi- 
ments have been tried with captive bats to demonstrate their ability 
to avoid obstacles which they could not see. Toward the end of the 
eighteenth century the Italian scientist, Lazzaro Spallanzani, found 
that bats which he had blinded could fly about a room, avoiding the 
walls, the furniture, and silken threads stretched across their path. 
A Swiss scientist, Louis Jurine, confirmed this and made the addi- 
tional discovery that bats lost their ability to avoid obstacles when 
their hearing was interfered with. Cuvier poured scorn on these 
findings, and they were forgotten for a century and a half. All that 
was remembered was that a blinded bat could fly perfectly surely. 
But the uncanny ability remained, and all sorts of theories were ad- 
vanced to account for it. It was suggested, for example, that bats were 
very sensitive to changes in atmospheric pressure. 

Then, in 1920, Professor Hartridge suggested that bats when flying 
in the dark were probably able to ascertain the position of obstacles by 
means of supersonic sounds emitted by the animals and reflected to 
their ears. Twenty years later, after the development of radar as an 
operational system, GrifRn and Galambos working in America were 
able to prove him correct. 

Both radar and sonar are, of course, founded on the same fact, 
namely, that if a short burst of energy is sent out and the time taken 
for the echo to come back is noted, then, if the speed at which the 
energy travels is known, the distance of the object can be accurately 
calculated. Moreover, by sending the energy down a narrow beam 

1 Reprinted by permission from Endeavour, vol. 6, No. 21, London. January 1947. 

317 



318 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947 

the bearing of the object can be accurately determined. In radar the 
energy used is in the form of electromagnetic waves; in sonar (the 
method by which the depth of water is measured) ordinary sound 
waves are used. Li their direction-finding bats use not audible sound 
waves, but, as Hartridge suggested and as Griffin and Galambos have 
proved, supersonic waves. The range of frequencies that a normal 
human being can hear is from about IG vibrations a second to about 30,- 
000 a second. Middle C is 256 vibrations a second. The range of fre- 
quency of the supersonic waves used by bats is from about 25,000 to 
70,000 a second, and is thus mostly above the limit of human hearing. 

Griffin and Galambos began their work by confirming that blind- 
folded bats are able to fly surely. They then confirmed Jurine's dis- 
covery that if the hearing of a bat is impaired it is unable to avoid 
obstacles when flying. Indeed, they found that a bat with both ears 
covered is most reluctant to take wing at all, but that a bat with one 
ear covered will fly with moderate success, though it will be unable 
to avoid all obstacles. These simple experiments indicated that bats 
are made aware of the position of obstacles which they cannot see by 
means of sound waves reflected from them. They then covered the 
noses and mouths of their bats, but left the ears uncovered, and found 
that again the animals were unable to fly with certainty. They thus 
proved that the sound waves reflected by objects must be produced by 
the vocal apparatus of the bats themselves. 

Their further experiments were conducted with the aid of an elec- 
tronic apparatus known as a supersonic analyzer. This consists essen- 
tially of a microphone sensitive to supersonic vibrations, a magnifier 
which amplifies them and converts them to vibrations of a lower 
frequency, and a recorder which traces a graph on paper when super- 
sonic sounds are received. The analyzer measures the frequency of 
any supersonic vibrations it may pick up. By means of this instru- 
ment it was discovered that bats make supersonic sounds at frequent 
intervals almost all the time. The frequency of the vibrations varies, 
of course, but it is most usually about 50,000 a second, and at this pitch 
each squeak lasts for a little less than one two-hundredth of a second. 

Now, it is evident that the more frequently squeaks are emitted the 
fuller the information received. It has been proved that a bat at rest 
emits a supersonic squeak about 10 times a second, but that as soon as 
it takes wing the rate goes up to about 30 a second. That was to be 
expected, since a bat on the wing obviously needs more information 
than a bat at rest. Griffin and Galambos further found that the closer 
a bat approached an obstacle the faster became the rate of squeaks, 
rising to 50 and sometimes even to 60 a second, and dropping to normal 
as soon as the obstacle was passed. The rate of squeak is, of course, 
governed by the distance from the object, for there must be time for 
the echo to come back before the ne;st squeak is sent out. 



Smithsonian Report, 1947. — Vesey-FitzGerald 



Plate 1 





The Wing Action of a Bat in More or Less Level Flight and Flying Toward the 

Camera 

Bats make hclwceii 15 and 'JO strokes of llic wiii^ a sccoikI, and Ilv at atioiit 10 miles an hour. (See also 

l'1.2, tig. 1.) 



Smithsonian Report, 1947. - Vesey-FitzGerald 



Plate 2 




The Wing Action of a Bat in More or Less Level Flight and Flying Toward the 

Camera 
(See also pi. 1.) 




2. Flight More or Less Broadside to the Camera 
(See also pi. 3) 



Smithsonian Report. 1947. Vesey-FitzGerald 



PLATE 3 





Flight More or Less Broadside to the Camera 
Bats fly by raisiiij; the wiia-s partly I'oldcil, briii^iin}; them shaiplv' ilown and forwaid. 
I'hotdyralih.s the iiiolilh is held oi;rn. (Sec alsi) pi. 2, i\fs. 2.) 



XoU' thai in these 





•vi. 




m j= 



SENSES OF BATS — VESEY-FITZGERALD 319 

The supersonic tone is not the only sound produced by bats. In 
addition to the supersonic squeak, which cannot be heard by human 
beings, they produce three other kinds of sound: (1) The ordinary 
voice, which is the flight call, and which Hartridge has named the 
signaling tone; (2) a buzz, which is audible if one is quite close to the 
animal; and (3) a click, which is usually audible at a distance of 
several feet. I am not competent to say whether the buzz differs in 
any way with the species ; it sounds exactly the same to me whether 
emitted by a serotine (Eptesicus serotinus) or a pipistrelle {Pipistrel- 
lics pipistrellus) , nor can I distinguish any difference between the clicks 
emitted by the different species. The flight calls, however, are quite 
distinct. It is possible to distinguish between the species on the wing 
by means of their flight calls (it is also possible with practice to dis- 
tinguish between the types of flight), and I have elsewhere attempted 
to translate the differences between the calls of the various species to 
paper. It has been shown that the buzz and the click are accompanied 
by the supersonic tone. In the case of the click there is a single short 
burst of supersonic energy, but in the case of the buzz there is a con- 
tinuous evolution of the interrupted supersonic tone. The flight call, 
however, may be produced by itself or it may be accompanied by the 
supersonic tone. Some bats, notably the lesser horseshoe {Rhino- 
lophus hipposideros) ^ have a considerable vocabulary of ordinary 
sounds, whereas others, notably the whiskered {Myotis mystacinus) , 
scarcely ever make a sound of this sort. I have never heard the whisk- 
ered utter a sound on the wing, and of the many I have kept in captivity 
only a few have uttered faint grunts, and those very occasionally, when 
at rest. 

How these four different types of sound are produced is not yet 
clear, but examination of the vocal organs of bats shows that they are 
very different from those of other animals. The larynx, which in 
most animals is built of cartilage, in bats is made of bone and is com- 
paratively a massive structure with large and powerful muscles. The 
strength of the bat's larynx and its small size are obviously well 
adapted to the production of supersonic sounds, for there must be 
tremendous energy in the supersonic squeaks as compared with the 
audible squeaks. The higher the note and the greater the frequency, 
the greater the energy. 

Though it is not yet known exactly how the supersonic vibrations 
are produced, it is known how the bat avoids hearing the squeak. It 
is, of course, essential that only the echo should be heard by the bat. 
The same difficulty had to be overcome in radar transmission. In 
order to ensure that only the echo is picked up by the receiver, this is 
suppressed while the transmitter sends. Something of the same kind 
happens in the bat when emitting the supersonic tone. Griffin and 
Galambos found that while the squeak is being made a muscle in the 

777488—48 24 



320 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 194 7 

ear contracts momentarily, shutting off the squeak, and permitting 
only the echo to be heard. 

Bats are not the only creatures with the power of echo-location. The 
tapping of Blind Pew's stick is an example of the same process, and 
many blind human beings develop what appears to be an uncanny 
ability to move about without striking obstacles. Nor are bats the 
only creatures able to hear supersonic vibrations : dogs, for example, 
are often trained on the Galton whistle. But so far as is known at 
present bats are the only creatures that emit supersonic vibrations 
and guide themselves by the reflections. This important discovery, 
however, still leaves unanswered many questions about the behavior 
of bats, and, as is the way with important discoveries, poses a number 
of fresh problems. 

Invariably the first question that is asked is : Why do not the bats 
become confused between the echoes from their own squeaks and the 
echoes from the squeaks of their neighbors? It might be thought 
that with a large number of bats of the same species together in a cave 
or in the roof of a church, and all uttering supersonic squeaks, con- 
fusion would be inevitable. But it must be remembered that super- 
sonic squeaks do not travel far, for their energy is quickly dissipated 
in the air. It has been shown that the supersonic squeaks of bats 
travel only about 15 feet, and that they are able to give a useful echo 
only up to about 12 feet. In other words, provided that the bats are 
not crammed close together, there is very little likelihood of confusion. 
But, as everyone with any field experience of bats knows, they very 
often are crammed close together, yet there is no confusion. It seems 
evident that there is a difference in the frequency of the vibrations 
made by each bat. A very slight difference in frequency would be 
sufficient to enable each bat to recognize its own voice. 

There remain a number of problems to which no answer has yet 
been given. First, do bats emit the supersonic squeak through the 
mouth or the nose, or both? All the British bats are insect eaters, 
and all, with the possible exception of the barbastelle {Barbastella 
harhastellus) , habitually fly with their mouths open. Furthermore, 
all the British bats capture their prey while m flight, and most of them 
take flying insects. What happens when the bat closes its mouth on 
catching an insect? Does echo-location cease (in which case the bat 
must fly blind) or does its continue through the nose? We do not 
know. In the greater horseshoe {Rhinolophus f evnvm-equinum in- 
sulans) the epiglottis does not open into the back of the mouth as in 
most animals, but is projected up into the roof of the mouth, fitting 
into the rear opening of the nasal passages. It is not fixed in this 
position, and can probably be withdrawn, but the arrangement suggests 
that the supersonic squeaks, in the Rhinolophidae at any rate, are 
emitted through the nose, and this suggestion receives additional 



SENSES OF BATS — VESEY-FITZGERALD 321 

support from the extra ordinar3'' skin development on the muzzles of 
these bats. While the purpose of this appendage, which in some species 
attains an astonishing complexity, is not known, it has been suggested 
that it is concerned with directing the squeak into a narrow beam so 
that the bat's knowledge of its position is greatly increased. Be that 
as it may, I have no doubt from long personal observation that the 
horseshoes have a much finer appreciation of position than other 
British bats, and especially is this so in the case of the greater horse- 
shoe. Indeed, this species is quite uncanny in its judgment of distance. 
Bats normally hang head downward, suspended by the toes. It is the 
usual practice for bats to land head upward and then to shuffle round 
until they can get a grip with the toes, but the greater horseshoe is 
accustomed to turning a somersault in the air and gripping straight- 
way with the toes, landing, in other words, in the head-downward 
position. Very rarely indeed have I seen a bat miss its hold, and there 
appears to be no slackening of speed as the resting-place is approached. 
Some of my captive greater horseshoes used to sleep under a sideboard, 
and when they were hanging there was little more than a couple of 
inches clearance from the floor, yet they would fly under the sideboard, 
turn their somersaults with absolute certainty, and hang by the toes. 
And many, many times have I watched this acrobatic performance 
when they have been hanging from picture rails and so forth. 

There is a marked difference in the structure of the ear in the 
Rhinolophidae and in the Vespertilionidae. In the former the pinna 
is comparatively simple in build, but in the bats w ithout nose-leaves 
the ear is a much more complex structure, characterized by a great 
development of a lobe known as the tragus. This is especially well 
seen in the long-eared {Plecotus auritus), in which species it stands 
up like a second pinna. It has been suggested that the tragus is in 
some way connected with echo-location, and the fact that the bats 
with nose-leaves have no tragus while the bats with the tragus have 
no nose-leaves is surely significant. It would appear that the two 
developments must in some way perform similar functions. 

It is, I think, noteworthy that the long-eared, in which there is 
such a marked development of the tragus, is in comparison with 
other bats of the same group a master of flight in confined quarters. 
Most bats, when flying to their feeding grounds, do so at a consider- 
able height ; the long-eared does so very close to the ground, often at a 
height of no more than a few inches, and the flight is fast, direct, 
and confident. Furthermore, the long-eared captures comparatively 
few insects in flight, preferring to pick them off the leaves of bushes 
and trees, a habit which entails the nicest judgment of distance. 

Two other British bats, Natterer's {Myotis nattereri) and the 
whiskered {M. mystacinus), have the habit of picking their prey 



322 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947 

from foliage rather than taking it in flight. Natterer's is fairly im- 
partial, but the whiskered very rarely captures a flying insect, pre- 
ferring to search the hedgerows and fences, especially for spiders, 
of which it is inordinately fond. Both species have a well-developed 
tragus, and in both, but more particularly in Natterer's, there is a 
marked development of the glandular pads on the face. 

How bats find their prey is a mystery that has not yet been solved. 
It is certain that they cannot find it by sight, and there does not seem 
to be any evidence that their powers of scent are particularly acute. 
Plow, then, does the noctule {Nyctalus noctula), flying high and fast, 
find its prey ? If you throw a pebble into the air beneath a hawking 
noctule, the bat will dive on to it, swerving away from it at the very 
last moment without touching it. Attach a fly to a long line and 
make casts into the air while bats are hawking and you will have 
them diving at the fly, but it is very unlikely that you will catch one. 
Daubenton's bat {Myotis dauhentonii) is sometimes caught on the 
flies of anglers, but almost always by the wing. I do not think that 
there has been a single instance of the bat being caught by the mouth, 
which suggests that at the last moment (but too late to avoid con- 
tact altogether) it has realized its mistake. All this suggests that 
the supersonic squeak sends back an echo from anything flying into 
or across the path, but it does not explain how the bat knows that 
that something is worth investigating. Yet I have never seen one 
bat dive at another, even when there have been many flying at random 
in a confined area. Nor does it explain how the long-eared and the 
whiskered know that there is an insect or a spider on what their 
echo-location must have told them is an obstacle to avoid. Yet in a 
long experience of whiskered bats, I have not seen one hit a fence or 
make fruitless visits along a hedge. 

One would be inclined to say that the supersonic tone was even more 
selective than we know it to be were it not for certain things that 
field experience has brought to notice. I have seen bats of different 
species collide in mid-air — on one occasion a noctule with a serotine 
(and both animals were killed), and on another occasion a pipi- 
strelle with a barbastelle (when the pipistrelle was killed). These 
accidents happened during the evening hawking, and one can only 
suppose that at the time echo-location had stopped, possibly because 
both animals had captured insects and their mouths were closed. 

Field experience shows too that there are times when echo-location 
does not function at all. I have caught many bats by netting their 
dens of a summer night. At bne time, anxious to discover whether 
bats flew at night or not — it was at that time thought that they had an 
evening and a morning flight only — I made a number of all-night 
watches at dens of noctule, whiskered, pipistrelle, serotine, and Natter- 



SENSES OF BATS — VESEY-FITZGERALD 323 

er's, and, after the bats had left the hole for the evening flight, netted 
the entrance. I caught many bats (and at almost all hours of the 
night) in the nets, trying to get back to the holes. At that time nothing 
was known about supersonic vibrations in connection with bats, and I 
did not think that there was anything odd about it. But in the sum- 
mer of 1946, realizing that the supersonic tone should have warned 
them of an obstruction, I repeated the process at dens of noctule, 
whiskered, Daubenton's, and serotine, with the same result. The bats 
appeared to be quite unaware that there was an obstruction and flew 
straight into the nets. Later I covered the entrance hole to a noctule 
den with thick brown paper, and even this did not seem to be indicated 
to the bats, which flew straight into it. Before returning to their 
den noctules fly around the tree and in and out among the branches 
with never a false movement, yet they are unaware of an obstruction at 
the veiy entrance to their sleeping quarters. It seems evident that 
echo-location, for some reason, is shut off at that moment. 

On the other hand, it seems to operate to some extent during hiber- 
nation. Everyone who has entered a hibernaculum of bats must have 
noticed the tremor that goes through the sleeping creatures at the first 
presence of a stranger. They are asleep, and incapable of movement, 
but there can be no doubt at all that they are aware. 

REFERENCES 

DiJKGRAAF, S. 

1943. Vers. Ned. Akad. Wetensch. Afd. Natuurkunde, vol. 42, p. 9. 
1946. Experientia, vol. 11, p. 11. 

Galambos, R. 

1942. Journ. Acoust. Soc. Amer., vol. 14, p. 41. 
Gaxambos, R., and Gblffin, D. R. 

1942. Journ. Exp. Zool., vol. 89, p. 475. 
Gbiffin, D. R., and Gaxambos, R. 

1941. Journ. Exp. Zool., vol. 86, p. 481. 
Hahn, W. L. 

1908. Biol. Bull., vol. 15, p. 165. 
Habtbidge, H, 

1920. Journ. Physiol., vol. 54, p. 54. 

1945. Nature, vol. 156, p. 490. 
Matthews, L. H. 

1946. Zoo life. Summer, 
Pavan, M. 

1944. Le Grotte D'ltalia, ser. 2, vol. 5, p. 22. 
Spallanzani, L. 

1932. Le Opere di L. Spallanzani. 
Vesey-FitzGebau), B. 

1941. Naturalist, pp. 789-791. 

1943. Journ. Soc. Pres. Fauna Emp., vol. 38, p. 10, 

1944. Proc. Hants Field Club, vol. 16, p. 64. 

1945. Discovery, September. 



MOLLUSKS AND MEDICINE IN WORLD WAR II 



By R. Tucker Abbott 

Assistant Curator, Division of MoUusks, 

United States National Musetim 



[Wilh 3 plates] 



When American troops of MacArthur's Sixth Army landed on the 
eastern shores of Leyte Island to begin the liberation of the Philippine 
Islands, they were committing themselves not only to a bitter military 
struggle but also to one of the strangest of the many medical battles 
of the Pacific campaign. Within a week our troops had fanned out 
over an area which is highly infectious with a fatal snail fever or 
blood-fluke disease known at that time to only a comparatively small 
number of tropical-disease experts. Up through Gloucester, Finsch- 
hafen, and Hollandia many of the men had come, fighting Japs with 
a rifle in one hand, warding off malaria with a yellow atabrine pill in 
the other. Here on Leyte the malaria mosquito was almost unknown, 
but in its place was a tiny fresh-water snail carrying and spreading a 
parasitic disease which, if left untreated, led to extreme enlargement 
of the liver, and usually ended in the death of the victim. 

Characteristically, the disease did not manifest itself among the 
troops for a number of weeks. Then on New Years Day at an evacua- 
tion hospital in the town of Palo the first 2 military cases were dis- 
covered. An intensive survey of our personnel was immediately begun, 
and the fears of the Army doctors were confirmed by the discovery of 
973 cases. Before the epidemic could be brought under control, over 
1,700 Army and 17 Navy men had been stricken by the blood-fluke 
disease, schistosomiasis. 

NATURE OP THE DISEASE 

"Schisto," as the disease became familiarly known among the troops, 
is caused by a parasitic trematode worm which lodges itself in the blood 
vessels of the liver and the mesenteric vessels of the mammalian host. 
The adult male is about a half inch in length with a large groove along 
its underside in which the slender and slightly longer female rests 
during most of her mature life. Each fluke has two round suckers at 

325 



326 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947 

the head end, one for holding to the walls of the blood vessel, the other 
for ingesting blood cells. The greatest damage to the host, however, 
does not come from the small loss of blood or the obstruction caused 
by the worm, but rather from the vast number of tiny, spined eggs 
being constantly liberated by the female. A large proportion of the 
eggs are carried to the liver by the blood stream, and as protective 
encystment takes place, hepatic congestion or liver blockage develops. 
Ultimately, with increasing deposition of eggs and the introduction of 
toxins given off by the adult flukes, the liver becomes a gigantic mass 
of scar tissue. Accompanying symptoms are daily fever, extreme 
weakness, diarrhea, loss of appetite and weight, emaciation, and, in 
untreated cases, death from exhaustion. 

A number of the eggs laid by females in the mesenteric blood vessels 
work themselves through the intestinal wall and pass out into the 
open, thus permitting the life cycle of the worm to continue. The 
eggs must reach fresh water directly or bo rain-washed within a day 
or so to a nearby creek. There, the eggs break open to liberate a 
minute, free-swimming miracidium. Unless this microscopic larval 
form can reach an Oncomelania snail within 35 hours it will die. The 
miracidium will swim rapidly through the water in erratic and un- 
directed courses until by chance it passes within a few inches of an 
Oncomelania snail. At that moment, it turns and takes a straight 
course to the mollusk and plunges its head into the flesh of the snail. 
In a matter of a few minutes it will have bored itself through the skin. 
In time, the tiny invader burrows to the liverlike digestive gland 
of the snail, and there, during 8 weeks of complicated transformation, 
multiplies into hundreds of small, fork-tailed cercariae. The more 
miracidia that invade a single snail, the greater will be the production 
of cercariae; in heavy infections, the reproductive ability of the 
molluscan host will be impaired. 

It was this fork-tailed cercaria that infected our troops. During 
the early hours of morning thousands are shed from the ruptured 
tissues of the Oncomelania snails. Invisible to the naked eye, they 
lie on the quiet surface of the creeks and marsh waters and await the 
first person that comes to bathe or swim. Cercarial penetration of the 
skin is painless and often goes unnoticed, although occasionally in 
heavy infections an itchy rash or cercarial dermatitis is produced. 

Two to three months may pass before the victim shows any dis- 
tressing symptoms of the disease. During this incubation period the 
larval worms will have migrated from the small blood vessels and 
lymphatics to the heart through the venous system and will have 
reached the lungs. From here, the maturing worms penetrate through 
the tissues to the vessels near the liver, pair up in sexes, and begin their 
deadly production of eggs. 



MOLLUSKS AND MEDICINE — ABBOTT 327 

CAMPAIGN AGAINST THE DISEASE 

Fortunately, two medical units capable of temporarily coping 
with the menace were stationed on Leyte Island when the schisto- 
somiasis outbreak occurred. Combined medical guns were opened 
on the problem by the Fifth Malaria Survey Detachment under Maj. 
M. S. Ferguson and the Army Medical Research Unit under Maj. 
F. B. Bang. Both officers were on military leave from the Rockefeller 
Institute for Medical Research. The method of treatment for the 
disease by the injection of an antimony drug called fuadin had been 
rather well worked out by previous workers, so that the immediate and 
most important problem became one of preventive medicine — how to 
keep our men from catching the disease. This involved a laborious 
survey of military personnel and natives in the endemic area, a search 
for waters inhabited by the deadly snail, and the introduction of a 
rigorous educational progi'am among the troops. Signs blossomed 
out over the entire area wherever infectious waters were located. 
Slogans of "Danger ! Snail fever ! Keep out of this river," "Schisto 
and death here ! Don't swim in these waters," became the roadside 
counterpart to the "Come to Smith's Beach. Excellent swimming" 
billboards at home. 

The Army and Navy, however, were as much interested in a thorough 
research attack on the problem as they were in an immediate solution 
of the Lej'te situation. They wanted to be prepared for similar epi- 
demics if and when we sent troops into the highly endemic areas of 
China's Yangtze Valley and the Japanese home islands. The Army 
sent out to the Philippines, and later Japan, the Commission on 
Schistosomiasis, headed at first by Dr. Ernest Carroll Faust, schisto- 
somiasis specialist, and later under the direction of Dr. Williard H. 
Wright, expert on public health matters and chief of the Division of 
Tropical Diseases at the National Institute of Health. From Commo- 
dore Thomas Rivers' unit on Guam, the Navy dispatched two doctors 
and a snail specialist. The use of the latter, a mollusk man, repre- 
sented the first time that a military organization had employed a 
malacologist for snail research. 

Long after the last of the schistosomiasis cases among our men had 
been reported and successfully treated, this group of scientists were 
continuing their research. The Army group went on to Japan and 
the Navy team was sent into China. Our knowledge of the distribu- 
tion, habits, life cycle, methods of survey and identification, and con- 
trol of the schisto-carrying snail was increased tenfold. Successful 
repellents and protective clothing were developed. Substantial ad- 
vancements were made in chemotherapy and methods of surveying 
for the disease. 



328 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 194 7 

ROLE OF THE SNAIL 

The key to lasting preventive measures against the blood-fluke dis- 
ease is the elimination of the moUusk, for without this one kind of 
snail the disease could not continue to exist. Of the several hundred 
species of fresh-water mollusks living in the Philippines, only the 
Oncomelania snail has been known to serve as the intermediate host. 
Although this species of moUusk is always found in endemic areas, 
there are localities where the disease is unknown, yet where the snail 
is present. One such region discovered by the Navy exists in the Lake 
Lanao area of central Mindanao Island. Formerly an American mili- 
tary site, and perhaps in the future to be used as a Philippine Army 
training camp, the country bordering the north end of the lake is 
cool, relatively free from tropical diseases, and not unlike the country- 
side of Connecticut. Yet the tiny creeks flowing into the northeastern 
end of the lake are heavily colonized by Oncomelania snails. Until 
these snails are eliminated, the area must be considered a potential 
breeding ground for the blood fluke. It is probably only a matter of 
time before the disease is introduced and established there. 

Surveying Philippine jungles and swamps for Oncomelania snails 
was, before the war, a particularly difficult task as is evidenced by the 
fact that Philippine workers, familiar with the country, found the 
snail in only 25 percent of localities where the disease was endemic. 
Recognition of the disease-carrying mollusk was hampered by the 
presence of similar-looking, harmless shells, and because the habitat 
preference of the gtiilty mollusk was not completely understood. 
Military medical men, armed with malacological information, were 
able to track down the snail in every case. 

Recognizing the guilty species of snail is not done by only studying 
the shell, but principally by observing the snail animal which is housed 
within. Oncomelania snails were found to possess a combination of 
animal characters not present in any other Philippine or Oriental 
snail — two delicate gray tentacles at the bases of which is a small black 
eye surmounted by a bright lunar splotch of yellow color gran- 
ules. This last distinctive feature was referred to for convenient 
identification purposes as "yellow eyebrows." 

Studies on habitat preference had been hampered from the be- 
ginning. The Japanese who had been working on the problem had 
reported many years ago on the partially successful eradication 
method of scattering hot, unslaked lime in snail-ridden creeks. This 
had been misinterpreted in fairly recent American literature as mean- 
ing that crushed limestone and the changing of creek water from a 
slightly acid to a slightly alkaline condition would eliminate the snail. 
It took many months of water testing to show that temperature of the 
water, with the causative amount of shade and resultant amount of 



MOLLUSKS AND MEDICINE — ABBOTT 329 

oxygen in the water, was the chief factor. It was also discovered that 
the ideal condition of the water for the shedding of cercariae was on 
the slightly alkaline side. Today, the fact is almost universally ac- 
cepted that a creature which builds its shell of calcium carbonate will 
grow best in slightly alkaline waters. The Oncomelania snail is am- 
phibious, and although a gill-breather, is as much at home on the moist 
earth bordering the creeks as it is under water. If the water is cool, 
the mollusk will make no attempt to leave. If trapped in a small 
puddle of water from a previous flood, and if the temperature rises 
above 88° F., it will either crawl out over moist ground or, if the water 
is still slowly draining to the main creek, will come to the toj), cup its 
foot to the surface film and float to cooler safety. 

This matter of temperature and habitat preference is not without its 
far-reaching military aspects when it comes to locating safe areas for 
encampment. Two similar-appearing valleys can, by the nature of 
their drainage and terrain, possess totally different mollusk popula- 
tions. On Leyte Island nearly any flat stretch of fairly well-shaded 
and creek-drained land may be looked upon as good breeding grounds 
for the Oncomelania snail. The bordering hillside streams are, with- 
out exception, perfectly safe. However, on Samar Island, at the 
northeastern end, a small valley tucked away in the hills was found 
which presents a totally different type of snail distribution. It is an 
area much like one that our troops might have entered had an assault 
on Japan been necessary. The center of the valley had every outward 
appearance of being snail-ridden country, yet a thorough survey there 
would have given a clean bill of health. The bordering hills, lush in 
protective woodland and near a source of clean, loinning water, would 
have been automatically recommended as an ideal site for encampment. 
Yet, unlike Leyte conditions, the areas around these hillside streams 
were heavily colonized by Oncomelania snails. The valley proper 
was ideal as a habitat in every respect except one — the temperature of 
the water was above 88° F. Had the inhabitants of our hypothetical 
Japanese valley fled, so that no survey could have been made of the 
natives, 1 to 2 months might have elapsed before the presence of the 
disease had become known. By that time our infected troops might 
have been holding an important sector of a battle front. 

Locating small endemic areas of schistosomiasis has been made diffi- 
cult by the migration of thousands of people during and after World 
War 11. This has been particularly the case in the Philippine Islands 
and China. Medical surveys brought to light cases of the disease in 
areas which had always been thought to be free. Questioning usually 
revealed the fact that the patient had lived in or passed through an 
endemic area. The Navy unit employed an accurate and easy method 
of mapping out small endemic areas by trapping and inspecting wild 
rats. In the Philippines the rats which forage in the brush do not 



330 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947 

migrate for any appreciable distance, for their food supply from 
fallen and broken coconuts is always plentiful. The rat acts as a 
blind reservoir host, catching the disease in the creeks, but apparently 
not passing schistosome eggs in their feces. A glance at a smear prep- 
aration of the liver under the microscope will show whether the rat is 
infected or not. In temperate regions of China and Japan the rat 
method is usually unsuccessful for locating endemic areas, for the 
animals prefer to remain near houses and barns and are not as likely 
to become infected. 

Control measures against the snail were undertaken jointly by the 
Army and Navy. As a preliminary to chemical tests, the life history 
of the snail had to be known, for eliminating all visible snails might 
prove useless if, unknown to the workers, a habit of migration or 
secluded aestivation existed, or if the eggs of the snail could resist 
poisons. Two types of experiments were carried out to determine if 
the snail had a habit of migrating. The first was simply by setting 
a marker in a creek and liberating 500 snails whose shells had been 
painted bright yellow. Two weeks later 90 percent of the marked 
snails were recovered within 25 feet of the marker. Other observa- 
tions involved the method of parasitological examination. At the edge 
of a marsh on the south side of the town of Palo a drainage ditch 
empties its schisto-polluted filth into the area of an extensive colony 
of Oncomelania snails. At the mouth of the ditch, where schistosome 
eggs were hatching into miracidia by the thousands, it was found upon 
microscopic examination that the snails were heavily infected with 
cercariae. Snail samples taken progressively farther from the ditch, 
and hence in zones of less miracidial exposure, showed lower and lower 
percentages of infection. Since the lapsed time from miracidial pene- 
tration to cercarial development is 8 to 9 weeks, it was safe to assume 
that the snails do not voluntarily migrate more than a few feet for 
at least that period of time. 

The search for the egg of the Oncomelania mollusk lasted for 3 
months. The size and nature of the egg were unknown to the Navy 
workers, and females kept in captivity could not be induced to lay. 
MoUuek eggs of a dozen species found in the creeks were carefully 
raised to an advanced stage of development so that identification 
could be made, but in every case they were found to belong to other 
species. The thrill of finally finding Oncomelania snail eggs was one 
which only comes to a naturalist engrossed in such strange searches. 
The egg was not only of extremely small size, no larger than the head 
of a pin, but was always carefully camouflaged by the feces of the 
female. The excrement of this snail is made up almost entirely of 
fine bits of undigested grit and sand. As the egg leaves the oviduct 
and is stuck to the surface of a moist piece of wood or coconut shell, 
the female places a number of her sandy fecal pellets on the egg and 



MOLLUSKS AND MEDICINE — ABBOTT 331 

pats them down into a protective, camouflaged jacket. With eggs 
available, the long list of chemicals effective against the adult was 
tested until all were eliminated save two which killed not only Oncome- 
lania adults and their eggs but spelled death to the fork-tailed 
cercariae. 

OTHER PARASITIC DISEASES CARRIED BY MOLLUSKS 

In other parts of the world there are two additional blood-fluke 
diseases which have plagued the human race since the memory of man. 
One of these, bilharzia, is mentioned in early Egyptian records, and 
its presence has been discovered in Egyptian mummies dating from 
1250 B. C. Napoleon's troops were infected in the Nile region, and 
during World War I the disease became familiarly known among 
British Tommies as "Bill Harris' disease." It has been estimated 
that 39 million people in Africa are at present suffering from bilhar- 
zia, with 6 million cases alone in Egypt. This almost equals the 46 
million estimate for Oriental schistosomiasis. Bilharzia blood flukes 
take their toll of human lives by attacking the urinary system. The 
life cycle of the worm must include an intermediate snail host, as is 
the case with all trematode worms. It is rather odd, however, that 
this species of schistosome, so closely related to the Oriental type, is 
obligated to live part of its life in a lung-bearing snail which is not 
even remotely related to the gill-bearing Oncomelania snail. 

The third type of schistosomiasis, Manson's disease, is of more in- 
terest to Americans, for its prevalence in Puerto Rico, the Lesser An- 
tilles, and the northern parts of South America presents a serious men- 
ace to tourists who enjoy fresh-water swimming. Manson's disease 
is believed to have originated in Africa w^here today it is second only 
to bilharzia as a trematode menace. It has been thought that its pres- 
ence in the Western Hemisphere is attributed to early slave trade. 
The snail responsible for the spread of this disease is related to the 
bilharzia carrier in Africa. 

In addition to the three blood-fluke diseases, there are some half 
dozen other snail-borne diseases which directly affect the health and 
economy of millions of our fellow beings. These differ from schisto- 
somiasis in being less damaging to the body, but are perhaps biologi- 
cally more interesting in having developed strange variations in their 
life cycles. 

The lung fluke, according to recent surveys, is at present limited to 
about 3 million cases of infection in Asia and a few thousand in West 
Africa. The half-inch-long adult attaches itself to the inner walls of 
the lungs and often produces fatal tuberculosis-like lesions. No effec- 
tive cure is known. The eggs of the fluke are coughed out of the lungs 
into the river where they hatch into snail-seeking miracidia. This spe- 



332 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947 

cies nearly always seeks out the river snails of the Thiarid family. In 
contrast to the simple schistosome life cycle, the lung fluke spends 
only a part of its larval life in the snail, and then emerges again to 
seek out a second intermediate host, this time a fresh-water crab or 
crayfish. The crustacean must be eaten raw by man in order that 
the lung-fluke larvae may penetrate the intestinal walls and migrate to 
the lungs. One marvels that such a disease can continue to flourish 
with so many weak links in its long and complicated life chain. In 
the Shoahsing area of Chekiang Province, China, famous for its good 
wines, a large proportion of the population is infected with lung flukes 
because of the native custom of eating uncooked crayfish that have 
been dipped in wine. 

Peculiar and unchangeable eating habits of man are again respon- 
sible for the world's largest endemic area for the bile-fluke disease 
which afl:'ects several million people in the Canton areas of southern 
China. The life cycle of this fluke worm includes a mammalian host, 
usually man, dogs, or cats, a first intermediate snail host, and a second 
intermediate fish host. The infectious larval stages of the worm are 
embedded in the flesh of the fish, and must, as in the case of the cray- 
fish, be eaten uncooked. Raw fish is consumed as a delicacy by the Can- 
tonese during the fall festival season. Strips of the more succulent 
parts of the fish are dipped in hot tea or hot rice gruel, and are thus 
only partially cooked. Many of the natives cannot afford sufficient 
fuel to cook the fish thoroughly, and thus become infected. 

THE SNAIL PROBLEM IN THE UNITED STATES 

No sooner had the schistosomiasis epidemic among our troops in 
the Philippine Islands been quelled, when Public Health authorities, 
under the leadership of Dr. Willard Wright, turned their attention 
toward the possibility of an outbreak in our own country. Although 
schistosomiasis has never been contracted in the United States, the 
recent return of infected service personnel presents a potential threat. 
To determine whether or not domestic species of snails are capable of 
serving as intermediate hosts, Dr. Eloise Cram, parasitologist, and 
Dr. Elmer Berry, malacologist, have been carrying out an intensive 
study of this matter. Living specimens of many of our American 
species are shipped from the field to the aquarium rooms of the Na- 
tional Institute of Health in Bethesda, Md. There they are exposed 
to the various trematode diseases under study. 

Already, one species of Tropicorbid snail sent in from Louisiana has 
been shown to be capable of acting as an intermediate host of Manson's 
disease. The native habitat for this species is the island of Cuba, with 
a few scattered records in Louisiana and Texas. These latter records 
may represent accidental introductions by man. Laboratory infec- 



MOLLUSKS AND MEDICINE — ABBOTT 333 

tions do not necessarily forecast what may happen in nature. Schis- 
tosomiasis is unknown in Cuba where the snail is rather common, and 
where undoubtedly infected visitors have given the disease every op- 
portunity of becoming established. A number of parasitologists be- 
lieve that the slave trade, with its accompanying cases of the two kinds 
of African schistosomiasis, has served as a great natural "experiment" 
in which it was clearly demonstrated that neither of the diseases were 
able to establish themselves in this country. It is probable that slaves 
were able to introduce Manson's disease into Puerto Rico, the Lesser 
Antilles, and northern South America because of the presence of a suit- 
able snail host. A similar "experiment" occurred in the Canal Zone 
during World War I where a few infected Puerto Rican troops were 
stationed. The disease did not establish itself in that area, nor have 
mollusk surveys brought to light species of known carriers. 

Research on the potential American snail carriers of Oriental schis- 
tosomiasis has been intensified recently by the promising early experi- 
ment of Dr. Horace Stunkard at Princeton. He has found that the 
Pomatiopsis snail can be infected by the Oriental disease, but has been 
unable, so far, to have the larval worm complete its growth. Present 
experiments now being continued at the National Institute of Health 
may meet with further success. The Pomatiopsis snail, already well 
known as a carrier of animal lung flukes in this country, is extremely 
close in its morphology and amphibious habits to the Oriental schisto- 
somiasis carrier. In fact, it has been dubbed the "Oncomelania snail 
of North America." Its distribution, as shown by the accompanying 
map, is limited to the central regions of the United States except for a 
minor area of dispersal along the central portion of the Atlantic 
coastal plain. 

By far the weakest link in our public-health defense is in future 
accidental introductions of known snail carriers from foreign coun- 
tries. A number of slugs and other garden pests, including the giant 
African land snail, have already found their way to our shores. No 
disease carriers have been found in the United States as yet. The 
possibility of this is not too remote, as is demonstrated by the recent 
introduction and establishment of a Brazilian race of the Australorbid 
snail carrier of Manson's disease on Luzon Island, Philippines. It 
may be only a matter of time before the disease finds its way from 
Africa or the West Indies to the Philippines through the agency of 
some infected traveler. The importation of living snails into this coun- 
try IS subject to the fine-toothed combings of our plant quarantine 
and control agents, but this is not necessarily a perfect screen. Once 
here, the Oncomelania snail has ample room for spreading, and would 
probably follow much the same distribution of the Pomatiopsis snail. 
As long as the accidental introduction is discovered within a year or 
two, no harm will have been done. Newly introduced species usually 



334 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947 

take two or three mating seasons to build up their population to the 
point where they begin to spread for more room. Fortunately, our 
leading natural history museums are in constant touch with thousands 
of mollusk amateurs and naturalists in the United States. From past 
experiences we know that any "new species" of moUusks discovered by 




FiGUEE 1. — The distribution of the Pomatiopsis snail, a relative of the Oriental 
carrier of the blood-fluke disease, is limited to the eastern third of the United 
States. Black dots show the locality records for Pomatiopsis lapidaria. 

amateurs are promptly sent to professionals for naming. In this way 
any molluscan stranger is likely to come to the attention of malacolo- 
gists aware of the danger. 

SUMMARY OF MOLLUSCAN INTERMEDIATE HOSTS 

In order to avoid belaboring this article with scientific names, a 
table of human trematode diseases and their molluscan intermediate 



Smithsonian Report. 1947.- Abbott 



Plate 1 




1. A liandful of iniiocent-loDkiiiK snails — yet thoy put a hattalion out of action 
en Leytc Island, I'liilippincs. (Xavy photosrtipli. ) 




2. An advanced case of .^nail fcxcr or schislosomiasis. The lixcr of this {■'ilipino 
lioy will continue to eniartic until death occurs. (Navy photoKniph.) 



Smithsonian Report. 1947.— Abbott 




1. Exi)eriinental snails infected with deadly scliistusomes. The specimen bein^ 
held is the West Indian carrier of Manson's. disease. (Photograph by Perry 
National Institute of Health.) 









2. The venoniiiii- (diic -hrll- .if ihc I ii.l(.-i';icilic arc cnlUTtni - iimi-, ihii .ne 
capal^le of iniiicting a fatal sting. Top row, left to right, the marble, geography, 
and courtly cones; lower corners, the textile cone; lower center, the tulip cone. 



Smithsonian Report. 1947. Abbott 



Plate 3 




1. Dr. Willanl II. \\ right ilcfti, cliicf of tli(> Division of 'rroi)ical Disra-^cs at the 
National In.stitute of Health, and Dr. Kloi.se Cram carry on cxijerinicntal work 
to safeguard our country from the introduction of snail-borne diseasi'.s. ( Photo- 
grapli liy Perry.) 




2. 'I'iie laljoratorie.- in the Division of 'i'ropiral Diseases at the .Xational Institute 
of Health are constantly receiving living snails from all parts of the country. 
Each species of snail undergoes rigorous tests to determine its disease-carrying 
potentialities. ( Piiotograph 1)\' Perrv.) 



MOLLUSKS AND MEDICINE — ABBOTT 



335 









03 CO 








^ s 






^ 


« 






111 








to 


C 






'f^ 


O . ^ 






0) 




cJ 


d 


03 


n cysts 
chestnu 

resh-wat 
cea. 
one. 


o 


o 




"-A 


"A 


f^ 


H Ph Kh 



S3 

o 



e « 



=0 -c • ••»» -t^ 



O g 2 

« ^ s 
2^o 



ij « « 5J 53 

E^ s^ k; *^ *^ 
£: S fc ft si 

5J lO VJ tj ■— 

s s s s^ 

oooocq 



. ?s u 



00 ^ ^ 



5 e J; 












o.g- 



A. 8 a 
cc e »J 

o i; - 

sec 

J; -^ J- 



O 






o 

-k^ O'" "^ 



« 



73 



OM 

:^ -s -s 



'2 



H 



oj 



^ A O 




a, oj-v 


g 


CC _M 


c 


<U 3 ;i 


y, 


S'^l 


a 



336 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 194 7 

hosts is given herewith. Only the more important diseases are listed 
and for each of them only the most important snail carriers. Insig- 
nificant trematodes of man, such as Eeterophyes heteroyhyes^ Hap- 
lorchis pumilio, and EchinochasmiLS perfoliatus^ have been excluded. 
Doubtfully or accidentally implicated moUusks such as Syncera lutas^ 
Thiara (Melanoides) tuberculata, and others have also been left from 
the list. The trematode, Paragonimus kelUcotti^ at the bottom of the 
table is not a human-infecting species, but its intermediate snail host, 
Pamatiopsis lapidaria, is considered a potential host of Oriental 
schistosomiasis. 

THE VENOMOUS CONE SHELL 

Seashell collecting and the handicraft of shell jewelry became pop- 
ular hobbies among many of our troops stationed on remote Pacific 
islands. The coral reefs of the South Seas and the East Indies under- 
went the most intensive scouring for rare and beautiful specimens since 
the days of early natural history exploration. Yet despite the many 
hazards of reef collecting, relatively few accidents and no cases of 
fatal bites and stings were recorded. This may be accounted for, in 
part at least, by the wide circulation of information on poisonous 
foods and animals given in survival handbooks by the Army and 
Navy. 

Among the most dangerous inhabitants of the coral reefs are the 
cone shells whose sting is equally as powerful as the bite of a rattle- 
snake. Although the beautiful cone shells are one of the commonest 
of Indo-Pacific mollusks, the total list of authentic cases of death by 
their sting is not at all impressive. Of the many dozen species found 
in this region, only five have been known to produce a venomous 
sting. The number of cone-shell stings is few because of the shy 
nature of the animal. Invariably a snail will withdraw into its 
shell when disturbed, and unless the cone shell is held quietly in the 
palm of the hand for some minutes, there is little likelihood of the 
collector being stung. 

The apparatus for the injection of venom into the skin of the 
victim is contained in the head of the animal. Bite, rather than sting, 
is perhaps more descriptive of the operation. The long, fleshy pro- 
boscis or snout is extended from the head and jabbed against the skin. 
Within this tube are a number of hard, hollow stingers, slender and 
long as needles. These are actually modified teeth or radulae, com- 
monly used in other snails to rasp at their food. Under a high- 
powered lens the teeth of the cone shell resemble miniature harpoons. 
As the teeth are thrust into the skin, a highly toxic venom flows from 
a large poison gland located farther back in the head, out through the 
mouth, and into the wound through the hollow tube of the tooth. 

There have been a number of graphic accounts of the symptoms 



MOLLUSKS AND MEDICINE — ABBOTT 



337 



involved in cone-shell stings, two of which are quoted below. Dr. 
H. Flecker, in The Medical Journal of Australia, vol. I, 1936, reports 
that— 

C. H. G. [Charles H. Garbutt], a male, aged 27 years, whilst on a pleasure 
cruise lauded at Haymen Island on June 27, 1935, and picked up a live cone 
shell (since identified by Mr. H. A, Longman, of the Queensland Museum, as 
Conus geographus) . According to an eye-witness, it was gripped in the palm 
of one hand, with the open side downwards in contact with the skin, whilst 
with the other he proceeded to scrape with a knife, the epidermis, that is, a 
thin cuticle covering the hard part of the shell. It was during this operation that 





Figure 2. — The needlelike tooth with which the venomous cone shell stings its 
prey. The top row shows the harpoon-shaped heads of the teeth of five venomous 
species. Left to right, Conus textile, striatus, geographus, marmoreus, and 
tulipa. Magnified 50 times. 

he was stung in the palm of the hand. Just a small puncture mark was 
visible. Dr. Clouston did not see the patient until just before death, but 
following details were obtained by him from the patient's mother, who was 
present with him. Local symptoms of slight numbness started almost at once. 
There was no pain at any time. Ten minutes afterwards there was a feeling 
of stiffness about the lips. At 20 minutes the sight became blurred, with 
diplopia; at 30 minutes the legs were paralysed; and at GO minutes uncon- 
sciousness appeared and deepened into coma. 

No effect was noted upon the skin, lymphatic, alimentary or genito-urinary 
systems. Just before death, the pulse became weak and rapid, with slow, 
shallow respiration. Death took place 5 hours after tlie patient was stung. 

A post mortem examination showed that all the organs, heart, lungs, et cetera, 
were quite healthy. Mr. J. B. Henderson, Government analyst, reports that 
no poison was found in the stomach contents. The victim was prior to the injury 
in perfect physical condition and in training for football. 

In the other species of cone shells, the reports show that considerable 
pain accompanies the sting. Andrew Garrett, a famous shell collector 
of the latter half of the nineteenth century, reported that he was stimg 
by a Conus tulipa "causing sharp pain not unlike the sting of a wasp." 



338 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947 

Another case was recorded in Japan by H. Yasiro (Venus, vol. 9. 
pp. 165-166, 1939). The translation of this paper appears anon- 
ymously in the proceedings of the Malacological Society of London, 
1940, vol. 24, p. 32. 

On 29 June 1935 a man 32 years old left home about 10 a. m. for bathing and 
shell-collecting. Soon after he was infected by the bite of a Conus geographicus. 
He immediately felt great pain and scarcely managed to walk home. A doctor 
attended promptly; the patient's temperature arose to about 36° C. (=113° F.), 
breathing became difficult and his finger-tips went purple. He was soon uncon- 
scious and died about 3 to 4 hours after infection. 

Other cases, not all fatal, have been recorded from New Guinea, 
New Hebrides, New Caledonia, Tonga, Samoa, Fiji, the Carolines, 
and the Society Islands. An excellent and much fuller account of the 
various cases appeared in a recent article by W. J. Clench, curator 
of the department of mollusks at Harvard College (Occasional Papers 
on Mollusks, Harvard University, vol. 1, No. 7, pp. 49-80). 

The cone shells apparently use their venomous armature primarily 
for the purpose of subduing their prey. Fish, crab, and mollusk 
remains have been found in the crop and stomach. Secondarily, the 
cone shells use their sting as a means of defense against such enemies as 
the octopus. Recently in Queensland, Australia, the effectiveness of the 
cone shell's defense was demonstrated during the course of a shell- 
collecting trip on the reef. An 18-inch octopus had been captured and 
put alive in an enamel pail of sea water. Later, a venomous cone shell 
was found and dropped in with the octopus. In a few minutes the latter 
began to attack the cone shell with its customary procedure by plac- 
ing: one of its tentacles across the mouth of the shell. Under normal 
circumstances it takes an octopus a few minutes to dig and suck a snail 
animal from it shell, but in this case it suddenly withdrew its hold, wav- 
ing its tentacles about in violent agitation. Immediately after the 
retreat of the octopus, the tiny, needlelike radula of the cone shell 
could be seen slowly withdrawing into the snail's proboscis. A few 
minutes later the octopus shed one of its tentacles. Although the crea- 
ture was soon transferred to a well-aerated tank of fresh sea water, 
it was found dead the following morning. The venomous cone shell, 
on the other hand, remained healthy and active for many more days. 

The species of cone shells reported in the literature as having been 
responsible for deadly stings are the tulip cone {Conus ttdipa), the 
textile cone (Conus textile) , the geography cone (Conus geographus) ^ 
the marble cone (Conus maimioreus), and the courtly cone (Conus 
aulicu^) . Oddly enough, the nature of the cone-shell poison has never 
been investigated by a chemist. The marlinspike shells of the genus 
Terehra, a cousin of the cone shells, are also armed with harpoonlike 
teeth and a small poison gland, but to date no records of their inflicting 
a sting in man have appeared in the literature. 



SOME REMARKS ON THE INFLUENCE OF INSECTS ON 
HUMAN WELFARE ' 



By Cakl D. Duncan 

Professor of Entomology and Botany 
San Jose State College 



The ways in which insects affect human welfare are so numerous 
and diverse that no approach to completeness of treatment can be made 
in a brief paper. In the present instance, however, completeness is 
not needed, nor in fact is even a comprehensive sampling. A consider- 
ation of certain aspects of the subject will suffice, for the object of the 
paper is to advance the thesis that the time has come for entomologists 
to present to the public, on whose support the progress of entomologi- 
cal research almost entirely depends, a more balanced interpretation of 
insect and human relations than that usually current. 

The subject of insects and human welfare is not new, and certain 
aspects of it have been developed at length in a great variety of books, 
technical bulletins, magazine articles, newspaper stories, and even 
reports over the radio. The relationships that have been most fre- 
quently stressed, perhaps naturally enough, have been those in which 
insects appear as enemies of man. It is not my desire to minimize the 
damage inflicted on man by those insects which are agricultural or 
forest pests, transmitters of disease, or are in other ways inimical to 
man's well-being. Such damages, however, and the insects responsible 
for them, should be viewed in proper perspective. In no other way 
can the real importance of insects as a whole be understood correctly 
and evaluated properly. 

It has long been apparent to biologists, whenever insect and human 
relations are viewed in their entirety, that the insect species which are 
injurious or antagonistic to human welfare actually constitute only a 
small proportion of the total of insect life and that the great majority 

1 Tresiflentlal address read before the Pacific Coast Entomological Society, January 4, 
1947. Reprinted by permission from Tlie Pan-Pacific Entomologist, vol. 23, No. 1, January 
1947. 

The aim of this paper is to focus attention on influences exerted by Insects in ways that 
are independent of those due to conflict among the insects themselves. Consequently, the 
discussion omits entirely the well-known beneflcient aspect of the work of parasitic and 
predatory Insects in controlling species that are real or potential pests, in order that other 
and less familiar benefits that man owes to insects may be given due emphasis. 

339 



340 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947 

of insects are either directly or indirectly beneficial to man or enjoy a 
neutral status. Dr. Frank Lutz (8)^ has estimated that not more than 
one-half of 1 percent of all the insects in the United States are actually 
pests. Calling attention to Lutz's estimate, Paul Knight (7) states 
that "those who care to extend the argument can show that a far 
greater percentage are of direct value, but that would prolong a ques- 
tion that is scarcely debatable." Nevertheless the beneficial aspects of 
insect activities have not been brought clearly to the attention of people 
generally. 

It is still too common practice on the part of entomologists, and in 
particular of economic entomologists, since they must perforce focus 
their attention on destructive species, to ignore or to minimize the 
numerous benefits conferred on man by insects. For example, Graham, 
in "Principles of Forest Entomology," (6) recognizes the beneficial 
role of numerous forest insects, but dismisses them with a paragraph 
of brief consideration in the final chapter.^ An occasional text, such as 
"Destructive and Useful Insects," by Metcalf and Flint (9) devotes 
a full chapter to the benefits that man derives from insects, and a very 
few treat the subject at more length, but in the majority of texts the 
treatment is quite inadequate. 

All too often, especially in articles designed for popular consump- 
tion, we encounter extravagant statements and overdrawn pictures con- 
cerning the so-called warfare between man and the insects as if the 
two were engaged in a relentless struggle to the death. The "insect 
menace" has become a catch phrase. To be sure, most of these fantastic 
pictures are found in articles written by persons lacking entomological 
training. Not a few, however, have been prepared by entomologists 
who should know better and nearly all are based on information and 
ideas that have been supplied by entomologists. An unfortunate con- 
sequence of this state of affairs is that many, if not most, laymen have 
developed the belief that nearly all insects are injurious and should 
ruthlessly be exterminated. 

A few decades ago excessive emphasis on the destructive activities 
of insects perhaps was justified. The increasing number of insect 
pests required that public attention be directed to these enemies of 
agriculture. Without this emphasis it might not have been possible 
to arouse the public sentiment and the legislative backmg that were 
essential for the support of needed research on pest control. At that 



^ Numbers in parentheses refer to bibliography. 

' The omission referred to here is the omission of any general treatment of beneficial 
insect activities in the forest such as are dealt with here. There is no intent to imply that 
Dr. Graham is unacquainted with these activities or unappreciative of them. Dr. Graham 
is a good ecologist and his book contains numerous scattered references to the beneficial 
activities of forest insects. The intent is merely to note that it has not been the custom 
in general texts such as Graham's, concerned as they are with the control of insect pests, 
to present beneficial insect activities broadly and as a whole, and so the student or general 
reader is likely to underestimate their importance. 



INSECTS AND HUMAN WELFARE — DUNCAN 341 

time also a factual basis for an adequate appreciation of the beneficial 
aspects of insect life had not yet been sufficiently developed. For that 
matter, there is real need at the present time for extensive and detailed 
exploration of the beneficial activities of insects. In particular there 
is a need for quantitative studies. The knowledge we now possess is 
mostly of a qualitative nature. 

The goal of an aroused public interest in the study of injurious 
insects has long since largely been achieved and adequate support for 
research in economic entomology usually is available. We now 
urgently need to round out the picture, to educate the lay public to 
a realization of the vast amount of good that is done by insects as a 
whole, to the end that balanced judgment shall determine the general 
attitude toward insect-human relations and that all branches of en- 
tomological research shall be recognized as meriting adequate support. 

There is at present a measure of real danger that the lay public, 
animated by the conviction that insects constitute an enemy group, 
may attempt to carry the matter of insect control, or rather, sup- 
pression, too far. For the first time in the history of man's conflict 
with insects the materials at his disposal make the unwise dream of 
insect extermination seem possible of attainment, at least in localized 
areas; or if this state of affairs has not yet been attained, at least it 
seems to be not far away. If, therefore, man is to be spared costly 
experiences in which his actions bring down upon him more harm 
than good, it is essential that there be developed in the public mind 
an appreciation of the beneficial activities of insects that will serve 
to balance the already well-developed appreciation of their injurious 
activities. 

The economic entomologist has a special responsibility in this con- 
nection because of his frequent contacts with a segment of the public 
which has a special reason for distrust of insects. Moreover, to ensure 
the proper development of economic entomology in the years that lie 
ahead, it is essential that the economic entomologist recognize and 
accept this responsibility as many of them individually already have 
done. It is becoming increasingly evident that the carrying out of 
proper measures for the control of injurious insects is not simply a 
matter of applying a sufficiently lethal insecticide. Rather it requires 
that each species be regarded in the light of the entire complex ecologi- 
cal picture of which it is a part, and that control measures be selected 
accordingly. It often happens that insects that are injurious under 
one set of conditions or circumstances are of no consequence or are 
beneficial under others. A correct appraisal of the economic status 
of many an insect, therefore, cannot be made by the farmer but only 
by a well-trained economic entomologist who has a broad knowledge 
of general insect ecology. A great deal of time and money is now 
"tasted in so-called "insurance spraying" which might be saved or 



342 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947 

better used in some other type of control. The farmer should be edu- 
cated to expect the economic entomologist to have the broad type of 
training suggested above and to look confidently to the economic 
entomologist for immediate advice and guidance in meeting his prob- 
lems of pest control. This desirable relationship cannot materialize 
so long as the current point of view continues to prevail. 

It may be that the danger that I have envisioned is more apparent 
than real. Human affairs move with sufficient slowness that the un- 
wisdom of attempts at the wholesale extermination of insects may be 
made sufficiently clear through repercussions from early attempts that 
efforts in this direction will be abandoned and will be replaced by 
actions based on a saner philosophy. Certainly the usage of DDT to 
date has revealed that such powerful insecticides, valuable as they are, 
cannot be used indiscriminately with impunity. Nevertheless much is 
to be gained by a concerted program of public education that is aimed 
at balanced enlightenment in place of the present progi-am of merely 
seeking support for more and ever more destruction of insect life. 

In the light of the reasoning thus far advanced it seems worth while 
to review certain of the interrelations between man and insects in which 
the insects play a beneficial role. 

As a general rule little attention is paid to the factors concerned in 
the control of the plant population of the earth and the place that 
insects hold among these factors. Because of man's dependence on 
plants it is customary to label as injurious any creature aside from man 
and his domestic animals that feeds on plant life. Yet obviously this is 
not the case. An organism is really injurious only when it becomes 
sufficiently abundant that its activities are genuinely detrimental to the 
welfare of other organisms. This happens in the case of only a very 
small proportion of insects. Moreover, it is possible for a plant as 
well as an insect or other animal to get out of balance with the rest of 
life ; to become, in fact, a pest. A few plants in recent decades have so 
far escaped from normal population controls as to become veritable 
scourges, and so far the only significant progi-ess in bringing them back 
under control has been accomplished through the use of insects that 
feed on them. 

The most notable example is the prickly-pear cactus in Australia 
which, according to some authorities, by 1935 occupied some 60,000,000 
acres of Australian soil to the extent that it was practically worthless 
for agriculture. Cactus-feeding insects introduced from the Ameri- 
cas have brought the cactus under control. Most of the work of con- 
trol has been wrought by a single species, the moth C actohlastis cac- 
tormn, whose caterpillar mines the joints of the cactus. Allan P. Dodd 
(4) says the introduction of this insect between 1925 and 1927 "brought 
a complete change in the outlook within a few years. Its progress 
has been spectacular, its achievements border on the miraculous. Great 



INSECTS AND HUMAN WELFARE — DUNCAN 343 

tracts of country, utterly useless on account of the dense growth of 
the weed, have been brought into production. The prickly pear ter- 
ritory has been transformed from a wilderness to a scene of prosperous 
endeavor." 

Probably not many plants possess the qualifications for becoming 
pests of the magnitude of the cactus, but we have no way of judging 
beforehand. There are other weed plants besides cactus which, though 
perhaps less objectionable, have nevertheless become major pests in 
countries into which they have been introduced. Such are lantana in 
Hawaii and Australia, blackberry and gorse in New Zealand, and St. 
John's Wort in California. Success has been only partiall}^ attained 
to date in controlling these weeds but the measure of success that has 
been attained has been accomplished largely through the use of insects. 

In the countries to which they are native these plants are not pests. 
They fit )iormally into the flora of those regions in mutual adjustment 
with other organisms. The factors that determine their normal popu- 
lation levels, as is true of plants everywhere, undoubtedly are several, 
but among these are the insects that feed upon them. Dr. Brues has 
pointed out in "Insect Dietary" that insects are a major factor in de- 
termining population levels in plant life. We perhaps cannot even 
guess accurately what the consequences would be if insects were to be 
totall)^ removed from the realm of plaiit life, but we can be sure that 
it would be some sort of chaos and that man would be numbered among 
the victims of such a disastrous happening. 

We are accustomed to looking upon insects that attack trees as in- 
jurious and requiring control, and certainly often, though not always, 
this view is the correct one. Yet it is equally certain that the majority 
of insects to be found in a forest are not detrimental to the forest and 
that many, if not the majority, actually benefit the forest in one way 
or another. F. C. Craighead (2) in "An Annotated List of the Impor- 
tant North Ameiican Forest Insects" lists less than 200 kinds of really 
destructive species distributed over many families, yet W. J. Cham- 
berlin (1) records 575 species of bark and timber beetles in but two 
families. The great majority of these are forest species but the great 
majority are not destructive. 

Chamberlin (loc. cit.) says, "When Micrasis, Carphohor-us, Pity- 
ophthoruft^ P'ttyokteines^ Lytnantor^ HypotheneTnus^ or any of the 
other similar species attack the lower limbs of trees and kill them, 
they are but hastening natural pruning which results in a clean bole 
and a better grade of lumber." 

Doane, Van Dyke, Chamberlin, and Burke (3) say that "In every 
heavily stocked young forest there are thousands of trees that must 
die and pass out of the picture before the forest reaches matu- 
rity. * * * Nature takes care of this * * * need through 



344 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947 

suppression of slower-growing trees; and at times insects and disease 
may serve a useful purpose in removing trees from overcrowded stands, 
thereby releasing the space to the surviving trees which will then grow 
more rapidly and into better wood material." 

It is obvious, therefore, that without the beneficial services of numer- 
ous forest insects our forests would never have attained to their present 
magnificence, their productivity would be far less than it now is, lum- 
ber would be inferior, they would be less suitable as homes for valuable 
wildlife, and their esthetic and recreational values would be far less 
than they now are. They would, moreover, be filled with a tangled 
maze of dead branches and small trees that would constitute a fire 
hazard far greater than any now known, or what is more probable, 
they would be swept by destructive fires of such extent and with such 
frequency as never to attain the status of forest maturity as we now 
know it. 

To consider another phase of the general problem, many insects in- 
habit the soil, often in tremendous numbers. In one case in Illinois 
their numbers were estimated at no less than 65 millions per acre. 
Some of the soil insects, namely wireworms, white grubs, certain 
aphids and mealybugs, and a miscellany of others, feed on the under- 
ground parts of plants, damaging them more or less, and at times 
attain the status of pests. The majority, on the other hand, make a 
definite, important, and perhaps essential, contribution to the develop- 
ment of the soil itself and to the maintenance of soil fertility. 

Paul Knight (7) in this connection says — 

(1) Soil organisms cause a continual interchange of soil particles by bringing 
to the surface particles of subsoil. The gradual enrichment of these soil 
particles increases the thickness of the rich top layer. (2) The burrows of soil 
organisms allow better drainage and aeration. (3) The dead bodies of animals 
such as insects and worms add a large amount of organic material to the earth, 
(4) The excreta of insects compares favorably in fertilizing value with the di- 
gestive wastes of other animals. Though the digestive waste of one insect is 
infinitesimal, the aggregate mass of all insect excreta probably exceeds that of 
the larger animals and is an important factor in soil fertility. 

W. M. Wheeler (10), referring specifically to the soil-building ac- 
tivities of ants saj^s, "Thus the ants act on the soil like the earthworms, 
and this action is by no means inconsiderable, although as yet no one 
has studied it in detail." 

In the discussion of both of the preceding two topics — forest insects 
and soil-inhabiting insects — mention has been made of the effectiveness 
of insects as scavengers. Their value in this connection can more 
easily be underestimated than overestimated for they are second in 
importance only to the bacteria and fungi as agents of decay. 

We deplore decay whenever it affects any type of material or prod- 
uct that we wish to preserve for a time. We deplore the existence of 
Penicillimn fungi that destroy a part of the oranges or lemons that 



INSECTS AND HUMAN WELFARE — DUNCAN 345 

we buy in the markets, we strive to prevent the growth of the several 
rot-disease fungi that destroy the foundation timbers of our homes 
and other buildings ; we abhor the maggots that swarm through the 
carcass of a dead animal or a mass of garbage that has not been prop- 
erly disposed of; but at the same time we recognize the general use- 
fulness of decay. We know that decay is the necessary counterpart 
to life and without decay life would soon become impossible on the 
earth. 

Folsom and Wardle (5) say that insects "as scavengers are of 
inestimable benefit, consuming as they do in incalculable quantity all 
kinds of dead and decaying animal and vegetable matter. This func- 
tion of insects is most noticeable in the tropics, where the ants, in 
particular, eradicate tons of decomposing matter that man lazily 
neglects." 

The importance of decay and the necessity for it lies in the fact 
that certain chemical elements, in particular nitrogen, phosphorus, 
and potassium, obtained from the soil by plants and needed alike by 
plants and animals, are present in usable form only in relatively small 
amounts in most soils. The available supply must be returned to 
the soil on the death of the organisms living on or in the soil if life is 
to be continued in anything like its normal luxuriance. Without the 
beneficial agency of the bacteria, fungi, insects, and other organisms 
of decay but especially these three, developing plant life would gradu- 
ally but surely tie up in plant tissues almost all of the existing supply 
of critically needed mineral elements. 

For the purpose at hand it is unnecessary to develop in detail addi- 
tional aspects of the general topic. Simple mention or very brief 
treatment of some of these will suffice. All, in one way or another, 
are fairly well known to entomologists though not to the general 
public, or at least not sufficiently known. 

The importance of insects as animal foods is apparent when we 
realize that considerably more than half of the food supply of common 
land birds, fresh-water fishes, many reptiles, and many small mam- 
mals consists of insects, and without the insects these animals would 
be unable to maintain themselves. It is customary to consider such 
animals as constituting checks on the increase of insects, and no doubt 
at times and perhaps continuously to a limited extent they do consti- 
tute such checks, but there is much evidence to indicate that more often 
the vertebrates in question, and in particular the birds, are merely 
living off of the surplus of insect life and are not a significant factor 
in regulating insect abundance. 

The dependence of flowering plants on insects as pollen carriers 
has received wide attention. It is estimated that about 85 percent of 
flowering plants require insect pollination in whole or in part. Met- 
calf and Flint (9) estimate that the annual yield of agricultural crop 



346 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 47 

plants in the United States that depend on pollen transfer by insects 
has a value in excess of 2 billion dollars. In this field as in others, 
however, the picture that has commonly been drawn is an unbalanced 
one. Most discussions of the subject have been in terms of the honey- 
bee and bumblebees. Admitting the tremendous importance of these 
insects, it must yet be recognized that there are thousands of species 
of plants for which the honeybee and bumblebee have no meaning. 
Great nimibers of other insect species, solitary bees, flies, beetles, moths, 
and butterflies, and even, occasionally, such small creatures as thrips, 
function as pollinators of these plants and in numerous instances 
play an absolutely essential role. Without them a considerable propor- 
tion of our garden flowers and shrubs could not exist, nor could there 
be the wealth of color and variety in the wild plants that clothe our 
valleys and hillsides in proper season. Insects, therefore, make a 
contribution to the esthetic and recreational resources of man that is 
not inconsiderable. 

Much of the vegetation that adds beauty to the desert areas of the 
earth consists of insect-pollinated plants. Such also is the case with 
the chaparral and other growths that hold back the runoff on hillsides 
and gentler slopes over vast acreages and so protect the lowlands from 
destructive floods. 

In summation, it is perhaps impossible to visualize adequately the 
totality of beneficial effects which insects exert directly or indirectly 
on human welfare, but the benefits are incalculably great. It is not 
too much to say that insects determine the character of man's world to 
a far greater extent than he does himself, and that if they were suddenly 
to disappear completely the world would be changed so extensively that 
it is extremely doubtful that man would be able to maintain any sort 
of organized society whatever. 

I repeat, therefore, that the time has come for entomologists gen- 
erally, and for economic entomologists in particular, to present to a 
public that is manifesting increasing interest in insect life, a more 
rounded and better balanced picture of insect life. It is time to appeal 
for interest and support on the basis of this more complete picture 
and man's place in it, recognizing that all forms of life are interwoven 
in an integrated whole which needs to be understood before it can 
safely be changed in any radical manner, and that in arriving at this 
more intelligent basis for orienting ourselves to the insects there is no 
place for categorical condemnation or praise. On the contrary, each 
species or closely knit group deserves to be considered independently 
and judged on its individual merits. 



INSECTS AND HUMAN WELFARE — DUNCAN 347 

REFERENCES 

(1) CnAMIiEHLIN, W. J. 

1939. The b.'irk and timber beetles of North America. Oregon State Col- 
lege Cooperative Association, Corvallis, Oreg. 

(2) Ckaiohead, F. C. 

1930. An annotated list of the important North American forest insects. 

U. S. Dep. Agr. Misc. Publ. No. 74. 

(3) DoANE, R. W., Van Dyke, E. C, Chambeblin, W. J., and Burke, H. E. 

1936. Forest insects. McGraw-Hill Booli Company. 

(4) DoDD, Allan P. 

1940. The biological campaign against prickly pears. Coommonwealth 
Prickly-Pear Board, Brisbane, Queensland, Australia. 

(5) FoLSOM, J. Vv'., and Wardle, K. A. 

1934. Entomology with special reference to its ecological aspects. Mc- 
Graw-Hill Book Co. 

(6) Graham, Samuel Alexander. 

1939. Principles of forest entomology. McGraw-Hill Book Co. 

(7) KxiOHT, Paul. 

1939. The problems of insect study. 2d ed. Edwards Bros. 

(8) LuTz, F. E. 

1931. In defense of insects. Sci. Month., April. 

(9) Metcalf, C. L., and Flint, W. P. 

1928. Destructive and useful insects. McGraw-Hill Book Co. 
(10) Wheeler, William M. 

1926. Ants. Their structure, development and behavior. Columbia Uni- 
versity Pre.ss. 



MOSQUITO CONTKOL TESTS FKOM THE ARCTIC TO THE 

TROPICS 



By H. H. Stage 

Bureau of Entomology and Plant Quarantine, Agricultural Research 
Administration, U. 8. Department of Agriculture 



[With 8 plates] 

Mosquitoes long ago put into practice a political theory publicized 
within recent years by the late Wendell Willkie. "One World," to 
these annoying pests and carriers of disease, has been and continues to 
be a reality. Not all of them, by any means, live here with us in the 
North Temperate Zone. In swarms they attack man and beast north 
of the Arctic Circle, and in myriads they inflict suffering and illness 
on inhabitants of the Tropics. The tropical diseases they carry include 
malaria, dengue, yellow fever, filariasis, and encephalitis. 

Soon after we entered World War II our Army and Navy found 
mosquitoes a formidable enemy. The battle front on which they 
encountered these creatures was a long one ; in the far North mosqui- 
toes prevented rest and hindered outdoor activities, and on the Equator 
indirectly caused the loss of many thousands of man-days by trans- 
mitting disease. Few American entomologists had conducted mos- 
quito surveys in either of these far-away zones, and few of us knew 
anything about their habits in foreign lands. Our military forces 
sorely needed an effective means of repelling mosquitoes. They needed 
also a modern, effective method of destroying mosquito adults and 
larvae over large areas under a wide variety of conditions. Several 
hundred species of mosquitoes were involved, varying widely in their 
bionomics. '''^- i 

In 1942, at the request of the office of the Surgeon General, United 
States Army, and with funds provided to the Bureau of Entomology 
and Plant Quarantine by the Office of Scientific Research of the Na- 
tional Emergency Council, entomologists at our laboratory in Orlando, 
Fla., began a long series of tests to develop effective mosquito repel- 
lents. Hundreds of new and old chemicals were sent to Orlando by 
chemical companies, from all parts of the United States. Within a 
few months several materials, having shown promise in the laboratory, 
were recommended for field tests. . 

TESTING MOSQUITO REPELLENTS IN THE ARCTIC 

Late in June 1943 Terris Moore, of the Office of the Quartermaster 
General, United States Army, and I were detailed for a few weeks to 

349 



350 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947 

testing equipment including mosquito repellents in the vicinity of 
Churchill, Manitoba, Canada (8) ^ This Army outpost on the western 
shore of Hudson Bay was chosen for the tests partly because of its 
accessibility, but largely because it lies in the midst of some first-rate 
mosquito-breeding country. In my naive, provincial way I thought I 
had already seen mosquitoes on the loose, but I was not prepared for 
the countless numbers of Aedes that accompanied us almost constantly 
on our daily routine at Churchill. They rode on our protected backs 
for miles through the muskeg, they cluttered the window screens of our 
barracks in a vain attempt to get food, and they entered our cargo 
planes and traveled for miles in every direction. On one trip to 
Southampton Island, in northern Hudson Bay, thousands of the in- 
sects took off from Churchill with us and made it easily to the next stop 
500 miles distant. En route, the temperature soon became too low for 
much activity on their part; but upon landing at Coral Beach they 
swarmed up and soon tried to bite. 

Moore and I arranged a simulated forced march of several days 
through the muskeg (9). Two Medical Corps officers, Capt. S. M. 
Fierst and Lt. D. A. Tutrone, and 12 enlisted men were detailed to 
accompany us. Without benefit of trails, shelter, or food other than 
what we carried on our backs, we headed into the wilderness. Every- 
where the ground was wet from the melting of ice a few inches below 
the surface. Travel was tough, and our feet were constantly wet. 
Every afternoon we spent hours seeking an elevation high enough on 
which to make our camp. We wore heavy clothing, partly as a protec- 
tion against mosquitoes and partly as insurance against being chilled 
by sudden snow or northern wind storms. Fighting mosquito hordes 
while wearing heavy clothing and loaded packs during days when the 
temperature occasionally rose above 80° F. was not so difficult as pre- 
paring for meals and sleeping. Wliile we were eating we could not 
wear gloves and headnets and continually dope ourselves with insect 
repellents, consequently the insects were constantly attempting to bite 
our hands and faces. At nearly every meal, numbers of mosquitoes 
accidently landed in everyone's beans and coffee. 

The object of our hike was to determine which gave better protec- 
tion — heavy clothing, or the chemical mosquito repellents we had 
brought from the Orlando laboratory. One day we would try double 
layers of heavy clothing, without repellents. The next, our Army 
personnel would serve as human guinea pigs. Their faces would be 
protected with head nets, but their arms and legs would be left bare 
and we would apply a different repellent to each of a man's bare arms 
and legs. We w^ould then clock the time between application of the 
repellent and the first, second, and third mosquito bites (table 1 ) . The 



1 Numbers in parentheses refer to bibliography. 



MOSQUITO CONTROL TESTS — STAGE 



351 



different repellents gave protection for different lengths of time on 
different hosts, but in general the effective period was shortest for 
Indalone and longest for the three-wa}' mixture 6 parts dimethyl 
phthalate, 2 parts Indalone, and 2 parts E-612. The repellents were 
applied carefully and thoroughly, and after each application we 
washed our hands with acetone to avoid contaminating any one repel- 
lent with any other. We would test but one repellent on any one arm 
or leg during the course of any one day. On any day when the biting 
rate of mosquitoes was abnormally low because of unfavorable weather, 
we interrupted the test repellents and instead tested some tents and 
sleeping bags Moore had designed. From time to time we used jungle 
boots and jungle hammocks. The hammocks were warm and com- 
fortable, and after we got inside we were well protected against mos- 
quito bites — that is, unless an arm or leg came into contact with the 
netting. Wearing jungle boots in that cold and saturated moss-covered 
muskeg was another story, and none of us volunteered to test them a 
second time. 



Table 1. — Repellent test. Mosquitoes: ^ Aedes nearcticus, Aedes catapbjdla. 
July 7, 194s, Churchill, Manitoba. Biting rate, 61 per minute 



Host,' and number of bite 


Duration 


, in minutes,' of protection given by 
indicated repellent 


Indalone 


Dimethyl 
phthalat« 


R-012 


"6-2-2" « 


Kettlor: 

First .. - 


43 
65 
68 


92 
108 
128 


108 
147 
151 


91 


Second 


100 


Third 


130 






Average ..- 


69 


109 


135 


107 






Walker: 

First - 


69 
82 
83 


102 
111 
116 


112 
1J9 
142 


70 


Second --- 


1(30+ 


Third - 


160+ 






Average - 


78 


108 


126 


130+ 






Abrams: 

First --- .- 


98 
103 
104 


62 
66 
72 


1J2 
120 
137 


160+ 


Second - 


1130+ 


Third - 


160+ 






Average 


101 


65 


120 


160+ 






Walaszewski: 

First... 


111 
152 
160+ 


68 
160+ 
160+ 


142 

160+ 

160+ 


160 + 


Second . 


100+ 


Third 


11)0+ 






Average . . 


141 


129+ 


144+ 


160+ 






Qrasso: 

First 


77 
96 
98 


113 

160+ 
1C0+ 


160+ 
160+ 
160 + 


160+ 


Second 


160+ 


Third 


160+ 






Average 


90 


144+ 


100+ 


160+ 







1 Each host tested 4 repellents simultaneously, 1 on ench arm and each leg. 

' Plus sign signifies that test was terminated Kt the end of the time indicated because of rain. 

2 A mixture containing 6 parts dimethyl phthalate, 2 parts Indalone, 2 parts R-612. 



77748S — 48- 



-2G 



352 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947 

Trying to dry our feet and socks before going to bed was about the 
most uncomfortable experience of all. We had the minimum of change 
and had little heat to dry our clothing, and mosquitoes were constantly 
finding vulnerable parts of our anatomy. We took turns using a 
specially designed sleeping bag, without benefit of a tent. Getting 
partly undressed and diving into a sleeping bag fast enough to escape 
being bitten was a real feat. There remained, then, the attempt to 
zip up the sleeping bag and stuff mosquito netting into the opening 
through which we breathed. Our arms were pinned to our sides, 
there were persistent lumps in our improvised mattresses of reindeer 
moss, and daylight lasted until 10 or 11 p. m. The sun arose about 2 
in the morning, and if the night was not exceptionally cold our rest 
was punctuated by the monotonous hum of the mosquito hordes. 

One evening when most pf the boys had retired to their small pup 
tents I made a fairly dependable count of 1,900 mosquitoes quietly 
roosting on one of the tents. These tents had a canvas floor, a 
screened ventilator in each end, and two doors — one of mosquito net- 
ting, the other of canvas. Two men were assigned to each tent. As 
the men crawled into their tents, many mosquitoes went right in with 
them. I had brought a supply of aerosol bombs, and after each pair 
of men crawled into their bedding I released the pyrethrum aerosol 
for a few seconds in through their netting door. This treatment en- 
tirely freed the inside of the tent of living mosquitoes within a few 
minutes. In the ventilators of one such tent I counted one morning 
128 dead mosquitoes. No doubt dozens of others had been killed by 
the aerosol before they were able to get to the ventilator. Had it not 
been for the aerosol bombs, each of our nights spent in the tents would 
have been one of torment. 

The results obtained with our insect repellents (10) compensated 
Moore and myself for the tortures the mosquitoes inflicted upon us, but 
the enlisted men did not share our enthusiasm. All but one of them, 
however, stayed with us until the tests were completed. 

We obtained data on the relative merits of several repellents used 
alone and in different combinations (20). As in the laboratory at 
Orlando, certain repellents proved effective on some individuals but 
not on others, and a mixture of the three most effective repellent chem- 
icals proved more effective on all individuals than any repellent used 
alone. We demonstrated that these new materials could be used for 
the protection of our armed forces under Arctic conditions. At the 
end of our tests a secret ballot was taken in which each man was asked 
to indicate whether he preferred to be protected with heavy clothing 
or with repellents. The vote was unanimously in favor of the 
repellents. 

In all our tests, the number of mosquitoes alighting on a certain 
portion of the unprotected leg or arm was at least 45 per minute. 



MOSQUITO CONTROL TESTS — STAGE 353 

Invariably, the culprits belonged to the genus Aedes. They repre- 
sented three species, A. cafaphylla Dyar, A. nearcticus Dyar, and A. 
excrucians (Walk.). We found no convincing evidence that one of 
these species was more difficult to repel than the others. 

Preliminary information was obtained on the attractiveness or 
repellency of color to mosquitoes. On a bright, moderately warm 
day when the temperature was in the high 70's, we asked the soldiers 
to wear black, white, and tan (OD #3) shirts. While they stood in a 
row we counted the mosquitoes landing on certain areas on the backs 
of the shirts every 30 seconds for 20 minutes. The shirts were also 
rotated on the several men. Two volunteers bared their backs for 
short periods from time to time. Each 30 seconds, on an average, 4 
mosquitoes landed on a white shirt, 15 on a black shirt, 31 on a tan 
(OD #3) shirt, and 97 on a bare back. Thus it appeared that color 
is of considerable importance in influencing the number of mosquitoes 
naturally alighting on a man's shirt-clothed back, nearly 8 times as 
many alighting on the tan shirt as on a pure white one. 

TO ALASKA IN 1944 

So far as was compatible with the exigencies of war, the office of 
the Surgeon General, United States Army, wanted to get information 
on the species of mosquitoes in the Territory of Alaska, their relative 
abundance, and the locations where they were and were not important. 
On July 5, 1944, I flew from Seattle to Alaska, and during the re- 
mainder of that summer I covered about 8,500 miles by air and 600 
miles by automobile in an effort to obtain such information. Again, 
the data obtained were decidedly preliminary; even so, we made the 
first record of the fact that mosquitoes are not a pest on Kodiak Island 
or on the islands of the Aleutian chain. I encountered swarms of 
several species of mosquitoes in the vicinity of Nome, although the 
National Museum had but one previous record of mosquitoes from that 
northern village (IG). Flying north of the Arctic Circle, I found 
hordes of a group of species different from that common 300 or 400 
miles south (11). Inland for 200 miles over the American Kange 
northeast of Nome the species were predominantly different than those 
along the coast in the vicinity of Nome. They also appeared 3 or 4 
weeks later than the Nome species. On entering the 4-passenger plane 
to return to Nome from the American River country, we found that 
literally thousands of mosquitoes had entered the plane while we 
were on the ground. I was disturbed, because I had not brought an 
aerosol bomb along. Imagine my relief when the pilot reached into 
a box and pulled one out. The Army had learned the value of these 
dispensers of insecticides and was using them in far corners of the 
world. 



354 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947 

While in Alaska I tested some repellents that had been developed 
since our Hudson Bay trials in 1943. The mosquito species were 
different, but the repellents proved their value once more, and we were 
happy. In the Alaska experiments with repellents I allowed each 
volimteer host to treat one arm himself with only the directions on the 
container as a guide; then, carefully and throughly, I treated his other 
arm with the same repellent. Our data show that, on an average, 
about 30 minutes' additional protection is gained when the chemical 
is applied by an experienced worker rather than by the untrained host. 

The return trip to the States was by plane over the Alaska Highway 
from Fairbanks to Great Falls, Mont. En route I stopped for a day 
or two at each of the several airports and had myself driven in a jeep 
from 50 to 100 miles up and down the highway in an effort to sample 
the mosquito population. However, as it was now late in August most 
of the mosquitoes had died out, so my collections were disappointing. 

DISPER^NG DDT SPRATS WITH LARGE AIRCRAFT 

As the war progressed westward in the Pacific, the need for a 
modern means of controlling mosquitoes over large areas became 
urgent. Malaria and dengue were taking a tremendous toll of man- 
days. DDT, although not proven under practical conditions, showed 
much promise. Amazing stories from our Orlando laboratory began 
to appear in 1943 (2) regarding the effectiveness of this new insec- 
ticide. Under test conditions, at least, a material that could be 
applied from aircraft was killing mosquitoes and their larvae in a 
single application (12). Preliminary tests (4) on a small scale in 
the Florida salt marshes had produced excellent results. Special 
equipment was soon designed for spraying DDT from various types 
of aircraft. In April 1944 A. W. Lindquist and W. C. McDuffie (7) 
demonstrated in Panama the possibility of killing adult mosquitoes 
in dense jungle with DDT by use of small Navy aircraft equipped with 
devices designed by C. N. Husman. 

Over large jungle areas these small planes were inadequate because 
of their small pay loads. We began thinking in terms of large air- 
craft. Soon an Army project was set up for experimental spraying 
from a C-47 with a capacity of 800 gallons and a B-25 with a capacity 
of 550 gallons. Army engineers designed special dispersing equip- 
ment. The tests were to be conducted over typical jungle in Panama. 

In January 1945, 18 of us flew to Panama from Orlando by way of 
Texas, Mexico, and Costa Rica in the two Army planes that were to 
serve as our spraying machines. Together with two four-man Air 
Forces crews our party included four officers and one enlisted man of 
the Army, a chgmical engineer from the University of Illinois, and 
four Department of Agriculture entomologists. 



MOSQUITO CONTROL TESTS — STAGE 355 

Delayed by weather and by regulations, the flight took 4i/^ days. 
Because we were flying by contact and had to remain low enough to 
sight landmarks, we bumped along slowly, in steadily rising tempera- 
tures. On the other side of the fuselage from our bucket seats were 
eight 100-gallon fabricoid tanks stacked in front of windows. Part 
of the floor of the plane had been removed to make room for the 
discharge pipes leading to the cut-off valve. Sitting on our para- 
chutes placed us too high to see well out of the windows, but all in 
all it was an interesting trip. 

The Army had invested an immense amount of labor in preparing 
the test plots where we were to make the experiments. Six plots were 
laid out, each 1 mile long and 14 mile wide. They had to be separated 
from each other by about 14 ^^li^® so that a spray could not be carried 
from one plot to another by wind. Connecting the plots were well- 
defined trails; around them and through them in crisscross arrange- 
ment similar trails had been cut — through dense jungle. Such trails 
were necessary because of the rough terrain, the dangerous black spines 
borne by palms of a certain species, and the possibility that personnel 
might become lost. Stakes had been set at regular intervals on the 
plot boundaries and diagonals. As a result any of us could always 
locate himself and go directly to and from his appointed station 
without undue loss of time. 

Several sheets were spread on the ground within each plot that was 
to be sprayed. This enabled us to count the insects that fell at 2-, 4-, 
and 24-hour intervals after the spraying and identify them as to species. 
Most of the species of insects were represented by only 1 to 5 speci- 
mens each, but in the Diptera various species of Calliphoridae, Sar- 
cophagidae, Tylidae, and Culicidae were obtained in much larger num- 
bers. More than 50 individuals of each of several mosquito species and 
more than 200 individuals of one were recovered. Specimens found on 
the sheets represented 53 species of Coleoptera, including 16 species 
of weevils, and 148 species of Diptera, including 10 species of blow- 
flies (14). 

Casual observations of the insect populations in the jmigle indi- 
cated no change in number or species of insects other than mosquitoes 
after treatment. Occasionally large Lepidoptera and Hymenoptera 
showing characteristic DDT poisoning were seen on the ground soon 
after treatment. 

The Signal Corps' of the Army provided a ground-to-plane com- 
munications system, which enabled occupants of planes to keep in 
constant contact with men on the ground as they applied the spi'ays. 
Smoke bombs and balloons were used to indicate plot boundaries to 
men in planes. 

For estimating the mosquito population, we decided upon two 
methods. The first was for 20 teams of 2 men each to count in each 



356 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947 

plot the mosquitoes landing on them in a 2-minute period at dusk and 
another at dawn. Twice daily for about 5 days before the plots were 
treated and for 14 days after treatment trained members of the Medi- 
cal Corps made such counts. The well-defined trails and labeled 
stakes made it easy for these men to find their stations, where they 
promptly began counting mosquitoes when a signal gun was fired. A 
total of 5,501 man-days were employed in preparing for and com- 
pleting the tests'. The second method was use of stable traps. A m.odi- 
fied stable trap of a design conceived by E. H. Magoon, of the Rocke- 
feller Foundation, was placed in the center of each of the plots. Sev- 
eral times before the spraying was begun we placed a Panamanian 
pony in each trap at dusk and next morning counted the mosquitoes 
that had been caught in the trap during the night. On the morning 
of our first trial, the stable trap in the plot that was to be treated con- 
tained so many mosquitoes that an actual count was impossible. 
The estimate agreed upon was 10,000. The mosquitoes were allowed to 
escape. Thirty minutes later a B-25 roared overhead spraying a 5- 
percent DDT fuel-oil solution at the rate of 2 quarts per acre. Next 
morning some 30 of us — Army medical officers, entomologists, techni- 
cians, and others — left Panama City at 4 a. m. and were at the stable 
trap before daybreak. With the aid of flashlights we peered into the 
trap to see how many mosquitoes had turned up to feed on the pony 
the night after spraying. We located just 1. The counts were con- 
tinued for about 2 weeks and the numbers of mosquitoes rose slowly 
to 200 during that time. The numbers of mosquitoes recorded in one 
plot left untreated were then compared with the numbers recorded 
in the five treated plots. 

For the first time, specific data were available on the effectiveness 
of DDT spray applied at a known rate upon a population of Anoph- 
eles^ Mansonia^ Aedes, and Culex adults. It appeared that within 
24 hours we had reduced by more than 99 percent the adult mosquito 
population within an area of dense jungle 1 mile long and ^ mile 
wide. With that kind of result there was every reason to believe we 
could control the spread of malaria, dengue, or any other mosquito- 
borne disease within a matter of hours. 

Before the treatment, members of the Army School of Malariology, 
C. Z., had put in several places on the ground small buckets of water 
containing Aedes aegypti (L.) larvae. Twenty-hour hours after the 
treatment, 70 to 90 percent of these larvae were found dead. Some of 
the buckets had been placed under heavy or wide-spreading leaves, 
but this protection had not saved the larvae. The results seemed really 
too spectacular ; some of the experimenters were skeptical of them until 
subsequent tests gave approximately the same results. 

Two or three weeks after these tests we sprayed an isolated section 
of Gatun Lake and the adjacent shore line from a B-25. Anopheles 



MOSQUITO CONTROL TESTS — STAGE 357 

alhimanus Weid., an efficient vector of malaria in Panama, likes to 
breed in large unshaded bodies of water where the mosslike aquatic 
plant Naids comes to the surface. This plant forms a mat of vegeta- 
tion that protects the larvae from wave action and from predaceous 
fish. In preparation for the Gatun Lake test such an area was 
found, several acres in size. Technicians from the Anny School of 
Malariology took 200 half-pint samples of water from the "breeding 
ground" and reported an average of a dozen mosquito larvae per 
sample. A stable trap was set up on the adjacent shore line and baited 
with a pony. At dawn of the day when the B-25 was to put out, 
several officers and others visited the trap and estimated that about 
15,000 mosquitoes had been caught, about half of them Anopheles al- 
himanus. The pony was then taken out of the trap, the mosquitoes 
were liberated, and the signal was given for the B-25 to put out the 
spray. Five-percent DDT oil solution was applied at the rate of 2 
quarts per acre. That evening the pony was returned to the trap. 
The next morning we found 86 mosquitoes in the trap and found not 
a single larva in 200 samples of water. Again, the kill appeared to 
have been more than 99 percent (13) . 

The Army and Navy lost no time in getting this new technique 
out to the islands of the Pacific. Thereby a great deal of suffering 
on the part of our troops was prevented and many, many man-hours 
were saved that would otherwise have been lost to the war effort. 

Our tests yielded valuable information on the kinds of weather 
conditions that are favorable for spraying and on the desirable size 
and distribution of particles of the different sprays. An Army officer 
trained in biochemistry devised an ingenious method for collecting 
droplets of the spray at 10- foot intervals of elevation from the ground 
to the tops of trees about 125 feet high. He tied several large balloons 
to the end of a stout cord, and at 10-foot intervals along the cord he 
secured petri dishes in which glass slides had been fastened. Each 
glass slide was covered with magnesium oxide. The pattern of the 
pink- or blue-tinted spray was easily seen on the white-coated slides. 
The size of the DDT particles and their distribution were recorded. 
From this information we could check the amount of spray dispersed 
per acre. 

DDT RESIDUAL SPRAYS IN MEXICO AGAINST ANOPHELES 
PSEUDOPUNCTIPENNIS 

It was suggested by A. W. Lindquist and others of the Orlando 
laboratory that malaria might be controlled by spraying DDT on 
the walls and ceilings of dwellings and farm buildings. Laboratory 
tests of pyrethrins against bedbugs by Lindquist and associates in 
1942 demonstrated the soundness of the residual principle and the 
feasibility of malaria control with residual treatments employing 



358 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947 

DDT. Field tests by J. B. Gahan (5) in that year against Anopheles 
quadrimaculatus Say at Tallahassee, Fla., and Stuttgart, Ark., dem- 
onstrated reduction of adults by at least 91 to 99 percent and of larvae 
by at least 57 to 63 percent. The desirability of treating all the dwell- 
ings in a highly malarious district became evident. A satisfactory 
location near Cuernavaca, Mexico, was suggested by George C. Payne, 
of the International Health Division of the Rockefeller Foundation. 
We liked Dr. Payne's suggestion because the malaria vector in that 
locality was a different species of Anopheles and we were eager to 
learn whether all species were equally vulnerable to DDT residual 
or surface sprays. In the Cuernavaca area this anopheline breeds 
almost exclusively in the rice j&elds, therefore the larvae are restricted 
to well-defined areas. Several small Mexican villages a few miles 
west of Cuernavaca seemed to offer just the combination of conditions 
we were looking for — a new species of anopheline with restricted 
breeding habits, an impoverished community, and lots of malaria. 

Early in February 1945 J. B. Gahan (3) was detailed to go to 
Mexico and, with the cooperation of the Rockefeller Foundation and 
the Mexican Department of Health, treat two villages with a DDT 
spray. Two nearby villages were to be left untreated as checks. 

In April and May a 5-percent DDT water emulsion prepared from 
a concentrate containing 25 percent of DDT, 68 percent of xylene, 
and 7 percent of Triton X-100 was applied to dwellings at a rate of 
about 1 gallon to each 1,000 square feet (about 200 mg. of DDT per 
square foot) . This work was well done by two trained and responsible 
Mexican technicians under the daily guidance of Gahan. The houses 
sprayed had walls of adobe, stone, wood, brick, straw, and cane. The 
relative abundance of ATwpheles larvae in the treated areas and in 
comparable untreated areas was determined from samples of water 
dipped in the adjoining rice fields. 

The numbers of adult mosquitoes found in the treated villages after 
May were never more than 2 percent of the numbers found in the un- 
treated communities and were usually less than 1 percent, indicating 
reductions of more than 98 percent. Assuming that a treated village 
and an untreated one used for comparative purposes would have had 
about the same mosquito populations had no sprays been applied, we 
can say that the DDT residues reduced the number of larvae at least 
85 percent throughout a 4-month period. However, if an adjustment 
is made for a difference actually found between the two villages before 
the spraying was started, the decrease is calculated as 94 percent. 

I flew to Mexico City in September 1945 (15) and spent a month 
observing this project just before the work was closed down for the 
season, Mr. Gahan and his Mexican assistants easily proved to me 
the striking scarcity of adult mosquitoes in the villages that had been 
treated and of anopheline larvae in the adjoining rice fields, in com- 



MOSQUITO CONTROL TESTS — STAGE 359 

parison with their great abundance in nearby villages and rice fields 
where the sprays had not been applied. 

The reduction of malaria during the first season was diflB.cult to 
estimate because of the manner in which notifiable diseases were re- 
corded. Now, however, after 3 years of treatments, we are justified 
in claiming a great reduction in numbers of anopheline adults and 
larvae and a significant reduction in incidence of malaria. Also, the 
families whose dwellings were treated have been blessed with reduc- 
tions in numbers of flies, fleas, bedbugs, cockroaches, and other un- 
welcome insects. 

THE USE OF A WETTABLE DDT POWDER IN THE TROPICS 

The early formulations of DDT included solutions, dusts, and oil 
concentrates, the last-named intended for dilution with water to make 
an emulsion. Each had its advantages and disadvantages. There 
remained a need for a spray that could be used without creating a fire 
hazard and one that could be used safely on animals. 

In 1945 there appeared new products in powder form containing 
various amounts of DDT. These powders contained a wetting agent, 
which made them compatible with water and permitted them to go 
into suspension. Sprays made of wettable DDT powder might be 
used on foliage, on the surface of buildings, and on animals without 
absorption. They certainly would offer no fire hazard. But would 
they kill insects ? Preliminary tests in the laboratory indicated effec- 
tiveness equal to that of the emulsion and solutions, although the 
action tended to be less rapid. 

In December 1945 a medical officer of the Aluminum Co. of America 
called at our office to inquire whether there existed a DDT product 
that could be used on dwellings of thatch and rough lumber without 
creating a fire hazard. The company wanted to treat the dwellings 
of its employees in two bauxite mining villages in Surinam (Dutch 
Guiana), South America, as part of its progTam of sanitation and 
malaria control. We told him that wettable DDT powders were avail- 
able but that we had no precise information indicating whether they 
would be effective; that the new formulations looked good but should 
be tested on a practical scale by someone experienced in the use of 
residual sprays and in control of mosquitoes and malaria. I could 
see the possibility of an excellent research project through which the 
company might obtain the information it sought and the Bureau of 
Entomology and Plant Quarantine might obtain information that 
would be useful to our military forces and also to our civilian popula- 
tion across the United States. A cooperative agreement was signed 
by officials of the Aluminum Co. of America and the United States 



360 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947 

Department of Agriculture, and early in March 1946 I flew across the 
Caribbean again, this time to Surinam. 

It would be hard to imagine a more intriguing place in which to 
carry on mosquito-control research. In Surinam several peoples from 
the Eastern and Western Hemispheres live side by side without los- 
ing or greatly modifying their identifying customs, speech, or religion, 
and malaria, filariasis, dysentery, leprosy, and other communicable 
diseases are common. 

Primitive peoples live there. I have been told on good authority 
that far in the interior, near the Brazilian border, a tribe of red men 
still lives in the stone age, without benefit of fire. The aboriginal In- 
dians belong to the Carib, Arawak, and Warau linguistic stocks. 
They are mostly of pure stock and live in the interior. Bush Negroes, 
or Djoekas, live on the upper reaches of the rivers but not so far in- 
land as the Indians. The Djoekas are of pure African origin and are 
descendants of slaves brought to the colony 200 to 300 years ago. 
Among these peoples the malaria rate is high (IT), but I saw no cases 
of filariasis among them. Javanese and British Indians were imported 
50 years ago as labor. For the most part they remain true to their cus- 
toms, religion, and race. The typical native Surinamers are dark- 
skimied but have considerable white European ancestry. Among these 
people filariasis is common and malaria epidemics have been serious. 
A few Chinese storekeepers live in the colony. 

Moengo, the mining village where the test was made, is a little para- 
dise 120 miles up the Cottica River from Paramaribo. Its isolation by 
miles of virgin jungle helped to make it suitable for our experiments. 
The Aluminum Co. of America had built it according to modem hous- 
ing standards, and, within certain limits, it was a clean, well-sanitated 
group of homes. I found that mosquito genera and species were richly 
represented and that species of Anopheles (6) , including among others 
A. pessoai Galvao and Lane, A. aquasalis Curry, and A. oswaldoi 
Peryassu were breeding largely in the rice paddies cultivated by the 
Javanese. The common house mosquito, Culex quinquefasciatiis Say, 
was breeding by thousands in the water of moats surrounding the foun- 
dations of the houses. These moats were supposed to be cleaned at 
regular intervals, but apparently there had been "misses." 

The fly problem was rather severe. Within a few hours I easily 
found the source, at a farm about a mile from the center of the village. 
There were two cow barns, in which some 60 head of milk cows were 
fed and were kept under lights at night as a protection against vam- 
pire bats. In an effort to conserve manure the stables were cleaned 
only once in several weeks. Each morning a fresh layer of green grass 
was spread over the manure that had been deposited the night before. 
The fermenting compost served as an excellent medium for breeding of 



MOSQUITO CONTROL TESTS — STAGE 361 

house flies. Horn flies, also, were present in great numbers on all the 
farm animals. 

I had brought two kinds of DDT with me. A ton of a 50-percent 
wettable DDT powder was for use as a 2.5-percent water suspension 
on most of the houses and barns made of thatch and rough lumber 
and elsewhere on surfaces where the white deposit would not be ob- 
jectionable. This spray was also used directly on the milk cows and 
on a few donkeys. Over 90 dogs were dipped in a bath containing 
1.5-percent DDT. I had brought along also several hundred pounds of 
technical-grade DDT. This was mixed at the rate of 7 ounces to each 
gallon of a refined greaseless kerosene of which 22 drums had been 
brought from the States. Three wheelbarrow sprayers had been 
shipped from the States, two motor-driven and one operated by hand. 
A quantity of flat- or broom-type nozzles, oil-resistant rubber hose, 
and other accessories came in and were ready for use a few days after 
my own arrival. 

The main problem was to reduce the mosquito population. I had 
chosen five ways to determine the numbers of mosquitoes before and 
after treatment. With plans sent to the company several weeks be- 
fore I left the States, carpenters and mechanics had built three stable 
traps and a rotary-type trap (1). An extra cone of wire screen had 
been provided for use on the fender of an automobile. I brought with 
me a New Jersey light trap. The fifth method was collecting by 
hand the mosquitoes that landed on two men hired for the purpose. 
One of these men was a Belgian, an ex-convict from the French penal 
colony 30 miles distant. The second was a British Indian. The me- 
chanic assigned to operate the rotary -type trap was a Chinese. These 
men and those assigned to me for applying the spray were willing 
and reliable workmen, and to them goes the credit for a big job well 
done. 

The rotary trap consisted of two cones of screen wire rotated 
around a pivot driven by a small gasoline engine. The diameter of 
the cones was such that each screened exactly a cubic foot of air for 
every foot it was moved forward. The pivot was synchronized to 
travel at the rate of 20 miles per hour. The two cones were operated 
about 3 feet and about 5 feet, respectively, above the ground. An 
identical cone trap was mounted on the fender of our automobile. 
By driving this car at 20 miles an hour I could screen 52,800 cubic 
feet in 30 minutes. The two cones, when operated 30 minutes, 
screened twice as many cubic feet of air but in one spot about 10 feet 
in diameter. At the small end of each cone I attached a cloth bag 
having a bottom of fine screening. As the cones moved forward at 
the rate of 20 miles an hour the cloth bags were stretched out parallel 
to the cones. At the appointed time each bag was taken off the cone 
and placed in a jar containing a piece of cotton saturated with chloro- 



362 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947 

form. In this manner I collected a wide variety of mosquitoes and 
other insects. (On one occasion I caught a bat.) 

With the aid of D. C. Geijskes, an entomologist from the Surinam 
Agricultural Experiment Station, in Paramaribo, I selected five eco- 
logical habitats in which to operate the traps: (1) At the cowbarns, 
in a low pasture closely adjacent to swamp jungle; (2) at the center 
of the village, high and well drained ; (3) in an opening in the jungle 
halfway between the village and the rice-paddy section; (4) in the 
midst of the rice-paddy section; and (5) 3 miles distant at the edge 
of a Djoeka village. In the fifth environment, it was found, the cone 
traps could not be operated. 

The first week, I collected as much information as I could on the 
mosquito, fly, tick, flea, bedbug, and cockroach populations. Then 
I began spraying the houses, outbuildings, and cattle. I started 
with the cowbarns and cattle first in an effort to reduce the number 
of flies that were finding their way to my dining table nearly a mile 
distant. Every square foot of walls and ceiling of dwellings and 
outbuildings was sprayed. Within a few days the fly nuisance was 
no longer a problem. Horn flies and houseflies were actually difficult 
to find. 

Various tests demonstrated the effectiveness of the new DDT formu- 
lations against mosquitoes, cattle ticks, chigoes, fowl ticks, cock- 
roaches, bedbugs, and other insects (19). A sheet of white paper 1 
yard wide and 2 yards long laid down in the corner of a cool, sheltered 
garage was examined daily for dead mosquitoes. Every day several 
mosquitoes that had come in contact with the DDT-treated walls fell 
on this paper. Over 900 mosquitoes were taken in a light trap over- 
night before the village was sprayed. Beginning 2 or 3 weeks later, 
for several months this light trap caught only a few dozen mosquitoes 
at most. All the collecting devices in three of the stations showed a 
marked reduction of mosquitoes. At the fourth station, in the clear- 
ing halfway between the village and the rice paddies, there was no 
reduction of mosquitoes ; here there were no buildings, no cattle, and 
consequently no DDT applications within several hundred yards of 
the collecting devices. The few data we obtained on the numbers of 
mosquito larvae in the rice fields did not indicate any reduction. The 
most positive control of mosquito larvae with the wettable DDT 
powder was in the moats around the pillars of the houses. As nearly 
as I could evaluate the control here, the eradication of Culex quin- 
quefasciatus larvae was 100 percent and remained so when I revisited 
the village 10 months later. 

I returned to Moengo to evaluate the DDT treatments in January 
1947. Some of the results were beyond our fondest imagination. 



MOSQUITO CONTROL TESTS — STAGE 363 

The nuisance of mosquitoes in the village was gone. In the rice-paddy 
area they had been absent from the dwellings for several months but 
were being noticed again. An offer of cash for living bedbugs found 
no takers. Horn flies and the fowl tick, as nearly as I could determine, 
were eradicated. Cockroaches were not eliminated, but the previous 
population of the American cockroach appeared to have been reduced 
about 90 percent. In March 19-16, after spraying one house I counted 
some 550 dead ones. In February 1947, after spraying this house 
again, I counted 49, most of which were immature individuals. Ticks 
on the cattle were greatly reduced but were not eradicated by any 
means. (The cattle had been sprayed each month from March 1946 
to February 1947.) All evidence indicated a 100-percent reduction 
of chigoes breeding under the houses in the crushed bauxite. 

The most convincing evidence of the effectiveness of the wettable 
DDT powder was obtained in the house in which I lived during my 
first visit to Moengo. The walls and ceiling were sprayed with a 2.5- 
percent suspension of the new formulation, although such treatment 
leaves an unsightly white deposit. The house next door was sprayed 
at the same time with the 5-percent DDT oil solution. Bimonthly 
reports coming up from Surinam showed that the wettable j)owder 
treatment remained effective longer than did the oil solution. One of 
the first tests I made on returning to ISIoengo in 1947 resulted in cap- 
ture of 4,000 to 5,000 living mosquitoes in a stable trap. Half of these 
were placed in each house one morning at 9 a. m. Sheets had been 
laid on the floor of each house, along the walls and in the corners, to 
catch the mosquitoes, if any, that fell. At 5 that evening we reentered 
the houses. Where the wettable DDT powder had been used, we found 
hundreds of dead and dying mosquitoes on the sheets but none that 
were able to rest on the walls. Ten months after application in a hot 
and humid climate, this potent insecticide was still killing mosquitoes. 
In the other house we found dozens of mosquitoes that showed signs 
of DDT tremors but also hundreds on the walls that appeared well 
and healthy. Fifty hours later I saw two living mosquitoes there 
that appeared not to have been harmed. 

The crowning piece of evidence that DDT had really taken hold 
in Moengo was delivered to me by William Asgerali, the British Indian 
boy who had been assigned to me on my first visit there. Bill took 
care of the traps and counted the mosquitoes during the months be- 
tween my visits to Surinam. He was my interpreter, guide, tech- 
nician, and faithful friend. When I stepped off the boat at Moengo 
in January 1947 he greeted me with "Mister, one of the Djoekas named 
their baby boy DDT" (18). 



364 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 194 7 

BIBLIOGRAPHY 

1. Chamberlin, J. C, and Lawson, F. R. 

1945. A mechanical trap for the sampling of aerial insect populations. 
Mosquito News, vol. 5, No. 1, pp. 4-7. 

2. Gahan, J. B., and Lindquist, A. W. 

1945. DDT residual sprays applied in buildings to control Anopheles quadri- 
maculatus. Journ. Econ. Ent, vol. 38, No. 2, pp. 223-230. 

3. Gahan, J. B., and Payne, G. C. 

1947. Control of Anopheles pseudopunctipennis in Mexico with DDT resid- 
ual sprays applied in buildings. Amer. Journ. Hyg., vol. 45, No. 2, 
pp. 123-132. 

4. Gahan, J. B., Teavis, B. V., and Lindquist, A. W. 

1945. DDT as a residual-type spray to control disease-carrying mosquitoes : 
Laboratory tests. Journ. Econ. Ent., vol. 38, No. 2, pp. 236-240. 

5. Gahan, J. B., Travis, B. V., Morton, F. A., and Lindquist, A. W. 

1945. DDT as a residual-type treatment to control Anopheles quadrimacu- 

latus: Practical tests. Journ. Econ. Ent., vol. 38, No. 2, pp. 231-235. 

6. GlEJSKES, D. C. 

1946. Notes on neotropical Anophelinae In Moengo, Suriname. Mosquito 

News, vol. 6, No. 3, pp. 113-118. 

7. Lindquist, A. W., and McDuffie, W. C. 

1945. DDT-oil sprays applied from an airplane to control Anopheles and Man- 
sonia mosquitoes. Journ. Econ. Ent., vol. 38, No. 5, pp. 545-548. 

8. Stage, H. H. 

1943. Four days in the muskeg. Mosquito News, vol. 3, No. 4, pp. 127-130. 

9. Stage, H. H. 

1944. Saboteur mosquitoes. Nat. Geogr. Mag., vol. 85, No. 2, pp. 165-179. 

10. Stage, H.H. 

1944. Mosquito repellents and their uses. California Mosquito Control 

Association, Proc. and Pap., 13th Ann. Conf., pp. 109-110. (Proc- 
essed.) 

11. Stage, H. H., and Chambeblin, J. C. 

1945. Abundance and flight habits of certain Alaskan mosquitoes, as deter- 

mined by means of a rotary-type trap. Mosquito News, vol. 5, No. 1, 
pp. 8-16. 

12. Stage, H.H. 

1946. DDT offers two new methods for controlling anopheline mosquitoes. 

California Mosquito Control Association, Proc. and Pap., 14th 
Ann. Conf., pp. 9-12. (Processed.) 

13. Stage, H. H. 

1946. Species eradication by means of DDT. Nat. Malaria Soc. Journ., 
vol. 5, No. 2, pp. 99-101. 

14. Stage, H.H. 

1946. Mosquitoes and other insects killed by aerial spraying with DDT in 
Panama. Mosquito News, vol. 6, No. 1, pp. 12-13. 

15. Stage, H. H. 

1946. The use of DDT residual sprays in native Mexican homes for con- 
trolling Anopheles pseudopunctipennis mosquitoes. Mosquito News, 
vol. 6, No. 1, p. 38. 

16. Stage, H. H. 

1946. A preliminary list of mosquitoes occun-ing in the vicinity of Nome, 
Alaska. Mosquito News, vol. 6, No. 3, p. 131. 



MOSQUITO CONTROL TESTS — STAGE 365 

17. Stage, H. H., and Geijskes, D. C. 

1946. Observations on mosquito and malaria control in the Caribbean area. 
Part I, Suriname. Mosquito News, vol. 6, No. 4, pp. 177-180. 

18. Stage, H. H. 

1947. DDT has a namesake in Dutch Guiana. Mosquito News, vol. 7, No. 2, 
pp. 55-59. 

19. Stage, H. H. 

1947. Notes on the use of a wettable DDT powder in the Tropics. Journ. 
Econ. Ent., vol. 40, No. 6, pp. 759-762. 

20. Travis, B. V., and Morton, li". A. 

1946. Use of Insect repellents and miticides. U. S. Bureau of Entomology 
and Plant Quarantine, E-698, pp. 1-6. (Processed.) 



Smithsonian Report, 1947. — Stage 



Plate 1 




1. Technicians in the muskeg country of northern Manitoba, Canada, must be 
well protected by heavy clothing and head nets against the mosquito hordes. 




2. Mosquitoes by the hundreds would ride on our backs as we marched through 
the wilderness adjacent to Churchill on Hudson Bay. 



Smithsonian Report, 1947. — Stage 



Plate 2 




1. Counting mosquitoes on different colored shirts, Churchill, Hudson Bay. 
"Barebacks" were also attractive bait. 




2. The author applying mosquito repellents to leg^ ami arms of volunteers in 
Alaska to evaluate the most effective materials. (Photograph by Signal Corps, 
U. S. A.) . 



Smithsonian Report. 1947. —Stage 



Plate 3 




1. l'"lyinii t'lHjin Seattle lu Aki,-ka we t)u.ssed u\ei the '.),000-fuoL St. I*^lia.s Range 
and tlie source of some of the coastal glaciers. 




2. The B-2.") apijlying I he .j-]xircent DDT spray over the Panama jungle. ( Photo- 
graph by Signal Corps, U. S. \.) 



Smithsonian Report, 1947. — Stage 



Plate 4 




1. Leaves showing good coverage of droplets of DDT spray even in the lower 
elevations of the jungle. (Photograph by Signal Corps, U. S. A.) 





2. Naias bed in Gatun Lake, Panama, where a dozen Anopheles albitnanus larvae 
were taken in each of 200 samples before treatment with DDT. Twenty-four 
hours after treatment not a single larva could be found. 



Smithsonian Report. 1947. — Stage 



Plate 5 




1. Mexican techiiician spraying DDT on thatcluKl homes near 
('uerna\'aca, Mexico. 




2. Moengo, Surinam. Practirally ex cry s(iuare foot of surface of these buildings 
was sprayed with a 2.5-percent wet table DDT {>o\vder. 



Smithsonian Report, 1947. — Stage 



Plate 6 




1. Rotary-type trap as used in Moengo. 




2. Cone trap mounted on the fender of an automobile as used in Moengo. 



Smithsonian Report. 1947.— Stage 




1. The ami. w, - ;...ii-i iw .\lo(.'iit>,(j, l^iiich (luiaiia. The apart iikmiI in this house, 
sprayed with a 2.5-percent wet table DDT powder, killed mosquitoes 10 months 
after application. 



TEW STKENCJJ^; 
VERBODEN 
TE ROKEN 




SMUKING PROHIBITED 




2. An example of a perfect deposit made wilii a wciUilik- DDT [jduder aiiplicd lo 
a wall surface. Droi)lets are larji;e, coverage thorough, with no running of 
liquid. 



Smithsonian Report. 1947. — Stage 



Plate 8 




1. A Djoeka couple of Surinam. 




A Djoeka village in Dutch Guiana. 



THE PRIMARY CENTERS OF CIVILIZATION 



By John R. S wanton 
Collahorator, Bureau of American Ethnology 



If civilization is produced, or induced, by biological factors, factors 
in the natural environment, or factors in the cultural environment, 
a study of the several centers where it originated may enable us to 
isolate these and use that knowledge for the benefit of the race. 

But at the outset it is somewhat difficult to determine the exact 
number of cultural or civilizational centers with which we have to 
deal since the archeological survey of our globe is still incomplete. Yet 
certain general statements may be made. Taking the Eastern Hem- 
isphere first, it would be pretty generally agreed that one such center 
existed in Egypt, a second in the Tigris-Euphrates Valley, and a 
third in the valley of the Indus, while most would probably be willing 
to add a fourth, in northern China. Elsewhere in and near the Iranian 
Plateau, however, in Syria and Asia Minor and in the island of Crete 
there were higher cultures of an antiquity nearly as remote. The 
site of Anau north of the Elbruz has shown a series of archeological 
types which seem to parallel in antiquity those of India and the twin 
rivers, and almost as much may be said for the remains in Crete. This 
last center, although undoubtedly dependent on the cultures of Egypt 
and Asia, shows from an early age such esthetic maturity as to incline 
one to give it semi-independent position. As to the rest, it is clear that 
although they pursued in the main an independent course of develop- 
ment, they yet influenced one another at times in a very marked man- 
ner. This is not so evident in the case of China, but sinologists gen- 
erally^ hold that China was in its beginnings subject to strong influ- 
ences from the west. 

In the New World we have another series of centers lying, as in the 
case of the Old World, along the main mountain massif of the con- 
tinent and not far from its center. Here, however, it would be gener- 
ally agreed that two stand out above the rest, in Central America and 
in Peru, although there were a number of secondary foci and these 
two centers themselves show considerable complexity. 

In the present study of these several culture centers we shall have 

367 

777488 — 48 27 



368 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 194 7 

to leave largely out of consideration that represented by Anau which 
calls for more supporting material as the survey of northern Iran is 
pursued by undertakings like that of Krogman on Tepe Hissar. 

To begin with the westernmost of our centers, Crete (although ad- 
mitting that it is doubtfully entitled to a primary position) , we find 
it generally agreed that the physical type of its inhabitants was what 
has been called Mediterranean, dark and dolichocephalic. This was 
partially displaced and its culture overthrown by a brachy cephalic, 
Armenoid type connected with the Alpines of Europe. These brachy- 
cephalic people constituted one of the chief Greek strains, and the 
partial substitution of one for the other shows that both are capable 
of supporting high civilizations. 

Most of the ancient Egyptians were dolichocephalic. The brain 
cases of the predynastic Tasians and Merimdeans are said to have 
been wide. Those of the Badarians, Amratians, and Natufians, who 
succeeded them, were narrow. The Badarians are also said to have 
had just a hint of the Negroid or South Indian about them. In the 
dynastic period a larger and more robust but still dolichocephalic type 
makes its appearance in the royal tombs, and during the epoch of the 
third dynasty a brachycephalic Armenoid type becomes prominent 
among the upper classes. Petrie distinguishes as many as six racial 
types among the enemies and followers of Menes. The earliest Sume- 
rian skeletal remains suggest a long-headed type, and two long-headed 
types have been found at Kish, but at that site there also appear 
Armenoids. These last were probably contributed by the Hurrian 
or Japhetic population. Our knowledge of the physical types con- 
nected with the Indus culture is thus summarized by Childe : 

The population of Mohenjo-daro was certainly mixed; the slceletal remains 
and figurines undoubtedly belong to several physically distinct types. At the 
bottom of the social scale came a primitive Australoid stock ; the thicic lips and 
coarse nose of a little bronze statuette disclose at once the Isinship of this group 
to the surviving aboriginal tribes of Southern India and the position which it, 
like its modern representatives, occupied in the community. A higher type, 
long-headed like the last, has been termed Eurafrican or even Mediterranean. 
It seems to approximate to one of the long-headed Sumerian types and the 
similarity is accentuated in the portrait statues by the beard, shaven upper lip, 
and long hair done up in a bun behind quite in Sumerian fashion. Thirdly, a 
brachycephalic Alpine or Armenoid type is represented as at Kish in Akkad. 
Finally, a single skeleton and several clay figurines belong to undoubted Mongols 
or Mongoloids, the earliest dated examples of this racial type yet detected. 

It is a fair guess that the people mainly responsible for Indus 
civilization were Eurafricans, and if we are to associate vitality as 
civilization producers with physical type, the dolichocephalic people 
usually called Mediterraneans would seem to have most of the facts 
in their favor since they vastly predominated in Crete, in Egypt, at 
the head of the Persian Gulf, and probably in the Indus Valley. How- 



CENTERS OF CIVILIZATION — SWANTON 369 

ever, the circumstance that a brachycephalic, Armenoid type makes 
its appearance in Egypt in the Third Dynasty and "in the upper 
classes," the greater significance now attached to the Hurrian broad- 
heads in the Tigris-Euphrates Valley and the fertile crescent as a 
whole and the neighboring highlands, including the Hittites, the 
pronounced brachycephalic element among the Indus people, and 
above all the attainments of the brachycephalic Greeks, indicate just 
as clearly that they were perfectly capable of taking over a high 
civilization and even, as in the case of Greece, improving upon it. 

Whatever doubts may remain as to the abilities of brachycephalic 
people as discoverers and inventors are removed, however, when we 
turn to the remaining centers of civilization. The Chinese are among 
the most typically brachycephalic people in the world. There are and 
have been from a remote period dolichocephals in eastern Asia, but 
evidence is as yet lacking that they originated Chinese civilization. 
In the New World, at any rate, the higher cultures are decisively 
associated with brachycephaly. The Maya may be mentioned at once, 
and in the secondary culture areas along the Mississippi Valley and 
on the North Pacific coast brachycephaly is very prevalent. It is again 
markedly in evidence among the Quechua and other advanced tribes 
of northwestern South America. On the other hand the hunting 
peoples of northeastern North America and eastern South America 
usually are dolichocephalic. The conclusion seems evident that head 
form, pathological cases aside, has nothing to do with cultural status. 
Indeed, if that were the case, artificial head-deformation, which often 
distorted the occiput vastly more than nature varied it, should have 
had a more marked effect on the intelligence of tribes which practiced 
the custom. On the contrary, many of them, such as the Aymara, 
Maya, and Natchez, were among the more advanced peoples. 

Nor do we find, allowing for the later date of those in the New 
World, any marked differences between the several culture centers 
when we compare their contributions to civilization. Emmer wheat 
was cultivated by the Egyptians, and bread wheat by the Sumerians 
of the Tigris-Euphrates Valley. Both also had barley. Wlieat and 
barley were cultivated by the Indus people and they may have raised 
rice which, in any case, originated in India or China. The great 
American contribution to the staple cereals was corn, and they also 
gave us various species of beans and squashes. Olive culture is thought 
to have started in the eastern Egyptian delta, but on the other hand 
the Sumerians and Indus people cultivated the date palm. Flax was 
raised by the Egyptians and Sumerians, cotton by the Indus people, 
Maya, and Peruvians, and the Chinese contributed silk to the textiles 
of the world. Cattle, sheep, and swine were already domesticated in 
Egypt in predynastic times and apparently in the earliest period in 
Sumer. Humped and humpless cattle, buffaloes, sheep, fowls, and 



370 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947 

elephants were domesticated by the people of the Indus who seem not 
to have had swine. Asses were also known in Egypt and Sumeria 
from a remote period, but horses were introduced from Central Asia 
much later and were taken up most enthusiastically by the people of 
the two rivers. In this particular the New World was much behind 
the Old. Nearly all of its tribes including the Maya had dogs, but 
they were of very limited utility. The Peruvians with their herds of 
llama and alpaca were somewhat in advance of the rest. 

Stone masonry was, of course, further developed in Egypt than 
in any other Old World center except Crete, the Sumerians and Indus 
people depending on brick. In the New World the Peruvians were by 
all odds the best masons. Copper seems to have been known to the 
Egyptians and Sumerians at an early date, but bronze was employed 
first by the latter and by the people of the Indus. The Indus people 
also prepared an alloy of copper and arsenic. In the New World 
copper was widely known and considerably used, but we do not know 
where it was first employed. The Peruvians had learned to make 
bronze, and it is believed to have been invented independently by them 
though it appears also in Central America. 

The plow was independently invented in Egypt, Sumeria, and 
China, and the foot plow was known to the Peruvians. The potter's 
wheel seems to have been used earliest in Sumeria and India, and the 
wheel for vehicles appeared first in these centers or the intervening 
territory. We apparently owe the true arch and dome to the Sumeri- 
ans. The invention of glass is attributed to the Egyptians, but the art 
of glazing goes back to the earliest Sumerian epoch. To China we owe 
the mariner's compass, block printing, rag paper, paper money, playing 
cards, procelain, and gunpowder. To medicine Peru has made two 
notable contributions, quinine and cocaine. Chocolate comes from 
Central America; tea, from China or India. Tobacco is again an 
American product, but we do not know at what center it was first 
taken over by man. A boat used by the Egyptians in predynastic 
times is regarded by many as the ancestor of all later ships. Sumerians 
had discovered at a very early date the principle of the modem ax- 
head perforation to admit the handle. 

The rebus system of writing was evolved independently in all these 
centers except apparently Peru, where its place was taken by the device 
of the quipu. Our alphabet comes from Semites, who derived their 
inspiration, it is generally held, from the Egyptian hieroglyphs. It 
is also believed at the present time that the Maya hieroglyphs had 
evolved to the threshold of phonetic representation. 

The Egyptians seem to have been the first geometricians, and they 
led the Old World in the development of an accurate solar calendar 
of 365 days. Incidentally they gave us our earliest fixed date, 4241 
B. C, but the Maya independently, though later, evolved a calendar 



CENTERS OF CIVILIZATION — SWANTON 371 

equally accurate. The Sumerians and their Semitic successors, on the 
other hand, surpassed both in astronomy in spite of having associated 
it with astrology. They identified five of the major planets, and could 
predict eclipses with a high degree of accuracy. They introduced 
the use of degrees, minutes, and seconds, divided the day into 24 
(originally 12) hours, and the circle into 360 degrees and were the 
originators of the Zodiac. Breasted states that "the earliest known 
literature of entertainment was produced in the Twelfth Egyptian 
Dynasty, 2000-1788 B. C," and he also claims for the Egyptians the 
doubtful honor of having created the first empire in the world, 1580- 
1350 B. C. Philology apparently received first serious study in India, 
but that probably did not go back to the Indus culture. The same may 
be said of Hindu philosophy and religion, though it has been demon- 
strated that its non-Vedic elements stemmed from the Indus. India 
is also supposed to have influenced the second great center of philos- 
ophy in the ancient world, Greece, through Pythagoreanism, but it is 
probable that Greece also drew philosophical inspiration from the 
cultural centers nearer at hand. If we attempt to characterize the 
governments of the several centers, we may say that Egypt, the Inca 
Empire, and to a certain extent the Maya impress us as theocratic 
despotisms, Sumeria as a group of military states, Crete as a trading 
empire, and the Indus culture as one finding its outlet in communal 
civic enterprise. 

Something has already been said regarding the physical types of 
the occupants of the several cultural areas. Let us now take a somewhat 
broader world view of this subject. The first classification of human 
races to receive wide acceptance was that of Blumenbach into the 
Caucasian or White, Mongolian or Yellow, Ethiopian or Black, Ma- 
layan or Brown, and American or Ked. Cuvier reduced these to three : 
White, Yellow, and Black; and Huxley recognized five: Australoid, 
Mongoloid, Negroid, Xanthrochroic (yellow-haired), and Melanoch- 
roic. Haeckel based his classification on hair texture, and gave the 
following divisions: Wooly-haired (subdivided into fleece-haired 
and tufted-haired), and smooth-haired (subdivided into straight- 
haired and curly-haired). Retzius based his on types of heads and 
prognathism; narrow heads and projecting jaws, narrow heads and 
straight jaws, broad heads and projecting jaws, and broad heads and 
straight jaws. The American anthropologist, D. G. Brinton, set up the 
following groups: The Eurafrican race (including a north Mediter- 
ranean and a south Mediterranean branch), the Austrafrican race 
(including the Negrillo, Negro, and Negroid branches), the Asian 
race (including the Sinitic and the Sibiritic branches), the American 
race, and Insular and Littoral peoples (including the Nigritic, Malayic, 
and Australia branches) . 



372 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947 

F. Miiller and Latham classified by language and Waitz and Ratzel 
by progress in culture. These, of course, are not classifications of races 
at all. 

In his classic work on "The Races of Europe" Ripley laid down a 
trinal grouping for that area which has affected all later studies. 
These three are the tall, fair, dolichocephalic Nordics centering about 
the Baltic Sea, the brachycephalic Alpines in the central part of the 
grand division, and the dark, dolichocephalic Mediterraneans about 
the sea of that name. 

In more recent years Dixon attempted a sweeping change in bio- 
logical classification by dividing all peoples in accordance with three 
indices, the length-breadth index, usually called simply the cephalic 
index, the height of the skull, and the nasal index. Different com- 
binations of these yielded him eight races which he called Caspian, 
Mediterranean, Proto-Negroid, Proto-Australoid, Alpine, Ural, Palae- 
Alpine, Mongoloid. His system has had few followers or imitators, 
the tendency being to return to simpler categorizations more nearly 
like those of Blumenbach and Cuvier. Thus Kroeber gives us the 
following: Caucasian or White, Mongoloid or Yellow, Negroid or 
Black, of doubtful classification Australian ; Vedda, Irula, Kolarians, 
Moi, Samoi, Toala, etc. ; Polynesian ; Ainu. In other words, we have 
three great races and a wastebasketf ul of odds and ends. Some would 
probably add the Australoid to the three majors, and some would fit 
all the odds and ends into the three-race pattern, in effect a return to 
Cuvier. Boas is inclined to make two major divisions of mankind, 
a Northern Fair and a Southern Dark, and to consider the Whites and 
Yellows first major subdivisions of the former. 

The troubles of would-be classifiers show at least the difficulties 
attending the attempt, and indicate at once that races do not fall 
spontaneously and readily into a set of clearly indicated patterns, yet 
the fact that from two to four somewhat vaguely defined grand divi- 
sions can be made out and have been specified by several students shows 
that there is "something there." It is only when we attempt to draw 
boundary lines rigidly about them that we get into difficulties. 

Now when we come to compare our culture centers with these racial 
divisions we find that four of the former, Egypt, Sumeria, Crete, and 
the Indus Valley, fall within the boundaries generally assigned to the 
White race and one within the boundaries of the Yellow, while the 
American cultures, once assigned to the Red race, must be added to the 
Yellow in the more general categorizations. It is noteworthy, how- 
ever, that all these primary culture areas were tenanted by dark peo- 
ples, not by ultrablacks or ultrawhites. Gobineau's preposterous at- 
tempt to attribute Central American and Peruvian civilizations to 
colonization by prehistoric Whites of course has no basis in fact. 
There was probably a Nordic strain in Greece, but since we know that 



CENTERS OF CIVILIZATION — SWANTON 373 

Greek civilization received its stimulus from Crete, Egypt, and western 
Asia, and not from the north, any such strain could have had no 
significance for the primary civilizing effort. The inhabitants of 
those three regions belong to the darker subdivisions of the White 
race, those which approximate in some measure the Yellow peoples 
of eastern Asia and the Blacks to the south. In a trinal classifica- 
tion four centers, Egypt, Sumeria, Crete, and the Indus, may with 
the reservations just given be attributed to the Whites; and three 
others, China, Central America, and Peru, to the Yellows. 

If we fall back upon a dual classification, a Northern Light race 
and a Southern Dark one, the centers of civilization fall within the 
former. However, any deduction regarding inherent racial ability 
has to be qualified immediately by the admission that none of these 
centers was in territory occupied by the ultrawhite subdivisions. All 
are among darker Whites and among Yellows. In Egypt and the 
Indus, moreover, we have to admit the intrusion of a Negroid strain. 

Apart from the above-noted slight advantage which light strains 
seem to possess in a dual classification of mankind, we may say that 
the primary centers of civilization show diversity in physical type, 
language, and general culture, and that all have contributed to the 
sum total of human attainment. Moreover, there is evidence of 
heterogeneity at an early period in the population of these centers and 
subjection to heterogeneous influences from without. As we have 
seen, at least two types made their appearance in predynastic Egypt, 
three at Kish in Babylonia, and three or four at Mohenjo-daro in the 
Indus Valley. We may add that Egypt lay on the edge of the Hamitic 
family of languages and had constant dealings with both the Semites 
and Hurrians, Sumeria lay between the Hurrians and Semites and 
had constant dealings with the Indus, and the Indus Valley lay be- 
tween the Dravidians and Aryans with Mongoloids not far to the north. 
Both of the Chinese culture centers postulated by Eberhard lay where 
three culture areas came together. In the New World the Maya 
country was between the Uto-Aztecan peoples — with whom they were 
perhaps connected — and tribes with cultures following South Ameri- 
can patterns. The Peruvian area really contained two cultures, one 
belonging to the interior and one coastal, the latter, and perhaps the 
former as well, consisting in turn of several minor centers. 

The question thus arises whether human culture in these areas did 
not respond to influences other than those of race. There were no 
Blacks or Whites in the New World to affect culture either way. In 
the Eastern Hemisphere all primary culture centers lie in semiarid 
areas between 25° and 50° north latitude and toward the center of the 
land mass of the continent. The fact that they lay far north of the 
Equator has given rise to the supposition that climate had much to do 
with their origin. It has been claimed that a temperate climate fur- 



374 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 194 7 

nished the necessary stimulation discouraging human energy neither 
by its enervating warmth nor its paralyzing cold. 

Without denying that climatic influences played a part here, atten- 
tion should be called to one other factor not as yet sufficiently empha- 
sized. This is the possibly relative nearness of the Old World cultural 
centers to the original home of mankind. It might naturally be as- 
sumed that in moving outward from any given center the tribes which 
went farthest would have least leisure in which to make themselves at 
home in their environment and build up elaborate adjustments, i. e., 
civilizations, within it. But when we note that, although the New 
World was populated at a late period, centers of civilization not much 
inferior to those in the Eastern Hemisphere had appeared there in a 
relatively brief section of the human time scale, we are warned against 
laying too much stress on this particular factor. However, it remains 
true that Old World civilizations lay in regions where some of the 
oldest human skeletal material has come to light. Other materials of 
this kind, including the Piltdown man of England, the remains of 
early man in South Africa, and Pithecanthropus erectus, are remote 
from these centers, but if a point is selected central to the area 
determined by them and as nearly equidistant as possible from them it 
will bring us to southwestern Asia and India. It is, admittedly, much 
too early to dogmatize as to the earliest home of our race. Asia, 
Africa, and Europe each has its champions, and at any moment some 
new discovery may incline the weight of evidence to an entirely unex- 
pected quarter. The onlv thing that seems reasonably certain is that 
mankind is of Old World provenience. However, southwestern Asia 
and India happen to lie about midway of the oldest human remains. 

Central Asia has been one of the spots most favored by searchers 
for human origins. It attained its first prominence as a result of the 
early studies of Indo-European lang-uages, although of course the 
speakers of those languages were only a portion of the human race, and 
in more recent times it has been recognized that the spread of languages 
and the spread of peoples may follow entirely different paths. Never- 
theless, Central Asia was taken up by the biologists, particularly 
mider the stimulus of the late Prof. Henry Fairfield Osborn and his 
followers, and still exerts a powerful influence among both biologists 
and anthropologists. It was made to fit very neatly into the wave 
theories of race movement of such men as Griffith Taylor, and seemed 
to be strengthened markedly by the discovery of China man. 

At this point, however, we may introduce another line of evidence 
which m^y have some bearing upon the question. In the evolution 
of animal forms it is usually assumed that the generalized types pre- 
ceded the specialized, and that the main stem of evolution consisted 
of forms retaining the ability to adapt themselves to a greater range 
of situations than the rest. The specialized forms given off by these 



CENTERS OF CIVILIZATION — SWANTON 375 

are believed to have continued to reproduce in the environments to 
which they had become adapted and to have died out if radical 
changes in such environments took place. Under perfectly uniform 
environmental conditions it might be assumed that new species, 
genera, families, orders, and so on would spread wave-fashion from 
this center, but external conditions introduce modifications in any 
theoretical pattern so that considerable samples of these forms are 
found from center to circumference. In numerous cases, in fact, 
earlier and later forms persist in the same environment. In large 
areas like continents we should expect differentiation to extend over 
considerable areas and to bear some relation to the completeness of the 
separation between continent and continent and the time when such 
separating occurred. 

In volume 5 of Bartholomew's Physical Atlas the following zoo- 
geographical provinces are indicated, based upon earlier work by a 
number of students and valid in the main today : 

The Palaearctic region, including all of Eurasia except India, Indochina, and 
southern China ; the Ethiopian region, including Africa south of the Saliara and 
southern Arabia ; the Oriental region, including nearly all of India, Indochina, 
southern China, and the nearer East Indies; the Australian region, including 
Australia, Tasmania, New Zealand, the East Indies from the eastern end of 
Java to the Solomon Islands, and Polynesia ; the Nearctic region, including all 
of Canada, Alaska, the United States, and northern Mexico with a tongue of 
land down the JMexican highlands to the Isthmus of Tehuantepec; and the 
Neotropical region, including the rest of central and southern Mexico, Central 
America, and South America. 

It is undoubtedly significant that the number of these regions is 
exactly equal to the number of grand continental divisions, and in some 
cases at least we can account for their differentiation by the isolation 
of the continent in question at a particular period in its history. Thus 
the Australian region owes its peculiar land fauna to the fact that it 
was set apart from Asia by the Wallace Deep shortly before the appear- 
ance of placental mammals. Considerably later South America was 
separated from North America by the submergence of the Panamanian 
section, although North American fauna intruded into it when union 
was reestablished. Again, the faima of North America is known to 
resemble that of the Palaearctic region owing to the existence of a land 
bridge which persisted to a much later period than the Central Ameri- 
can isthmus. The African region has been differentiated from the 
Palaearctic in part by the interposition of the Mediterranean but still 
more by the sea of sand which we call the Sahara. Farther east the 
Palaearctic and Oriental regions have acquired their differences in 
part owing to the interposition of the Indian Ocean which once ex- 
tended entirely through to the Arctic and in part by the great deserts 
of central Asia which succeeded. 



376 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947 

The two last-mentioned regions and the African region very nearly 
come to a corner in southwestern Asia, the African extending as 
far east as Oman while the Oriental region includes the Indus Valley. 
The Iranian Plateau intervenes as a tongue of the Palaearctic, and 
separates not merely the Ethiopian and Oriental regions but many 
related stocks of the higher fauna as well, including civets and ichneu- 
mons, chevrotains, pangolins, false vampire bats, elephants, wild asses, 
buffaloes, lemurs, and Old World monkeys. Particularly it severs the 
present habitats of the anthropoid apes, man's nearest relatives. This 
fact indicates some intermediate point as a probable center of distri- 
bution, and has given rise to the hypothesis of a former continent in 
the Indian Ocean which has been called Lemuria since the segregation 
of the lemurs is particularly striking. Without creating a new con- 
tinent, I think economy of movement calls for an intermediate center 
of origin. If our areas were ranged concentrically, we should be 
justified in supposing that the one on the periphery was the oldest and 
that nearest the center the youngest, and this is measurably true of the 
Australian and New World regions, but the three others are placed 
radially and not concentrically. A center in western India or south- 
ern Iran would therefore be nearest to the greatest number of organic 
forms and involve the least motion in bringing them to their present 
habitats. We might imagine one genus to have originated at one end 
of their later habitat and spread lineally to the other, but to suppose 
two to have done the same thing and to have covered practically the 
same territory moving in the same direction would be less likely ; with 
three, four, or more the unlikelihood increases rapidly. And if the 
region indicated gave rise to the higher animal forms, the argument is 
good that the same was the case with mankind. 

Culture centers need not necessarily have arisen near the very spots 
which witnessed the birth of mankind, but relative nearness to that 
spot is to be expected. Another argument for southwestern Asia, how- 
ever, is the fact that cultures are apt to appear where peoples are sub- 
jected to a variety of environmental influences or to racial admixture. 
Thus, the high spot in the aboriginal Northwest Coast culture in Amer- 
ica came just where racial and linguistic diversity was most pro- 
nounced. The same was true of Southeastern culture, and we have to 
remember that the Pueblo culture of our Southwest existed among 
people belonging linquistically to four distinct stocks. Similarly we 
find that the Maya lay between cultures and languages which are dis- 
tinctly North American and others clearly connected with South 
America. Incaic, and the earlier Tiahuanucuan culture arose side by 
side with two or three somewhat diverse coastal manifestations. We 
may add that the Maya also lived very nearly on the boundary between 
the Nearctic and Neotropical biological regions and that two of the 
principal subregions of the latter, the Brazilian and Chilean, are 



CENTERS OF CIVILIZATION — SWANTON 377 

bounded by a line cutting through Peru and Bolivia from north to 
south. 

Returning to the Old World we note that the boundary between the 
Oriental and Palaearctic regions cuts directly through the Indus cul- 
tural center and that the boundary between the Palaearctic and Ethi- 
opian regions crosses the Nile close to Upper Egypt. The Sumerian, 
Cretan, and Chinese centers lie considerably north of the southern 
boundary of the Palaearctic zone in the general map of Bartholomew, 
but on the maps of some zoogeographers they lie much closer. 

CONCLUSIONS 

From the foregoing discussion it appears that the higher civiliza- 
tions have made their appearance and have spread among peoples of 
varying physical types and that these centers have contributed to the 
higher culture of mankind in about equal measure. If the races are 
ranged in a dual category, Northern Fair and Southern Dark, the 
centers of civilization fall within the former as usually defined, but 
in all cases among marginal peoples, not far from the boundaries of 
the darker races. If it is true that no primar}^ center of civilization 
arose among the ultrablacks, it is equally true that none arose among 
the ultrawhites. In one or two of these centers, moreover, there was a 
brack strain at a very early period. Some of these centers — Egypt, 
Sumeria, the Indus — show early evidences of considerable hetero- 
geneity, and all of them signs of trading contacts with the outside 
world. 

There is thus evidence that factors other than race were responsible 
for the position of these cultural centers. All of them show signs of 
contact, and none of those in the Old World, except the one in China, 
is far from the Plateau of Iran where three of the principal zoogeo- 
graphical areas come together. This would seem to be a natural point 
from which life forms spread as indicated by their present geograph- 
ical distribution. Although skeletal remains of primitive man have 
been found at widely separated points very far from the region under 
discussion, it is a fair question whether the distribution of animal life 
may not indicate the actual center more accurately, and that there is 
reason to look for the great cultural centers of mankind in the same 
general territory. 

A summary of the foregoing discussion would result about as 
follows : 

1. The primary culture centers lay among people of both dolicho- 
cephalic and brachycephalic head form and among those who were 
intermediate in pigmentation. 

2. They were in warm temperate latitudes. 

3. They were in areas containing heterogeneous populations or close 
to areas of divergent cultures. 



378 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 194 7 

4. Their contributions to civilization were fairly equal, allowing for 
the distance which separated American civilizations from the rest and 
the consequent handicaps under which they labored. 

5. The centers in both Old and New Worlds lay near the central 
portions of the continents and close to the main mountain chains. 

6. The Old World centers (except perhaps that of China) lay near 
the junction point of the three most important zoogeographical areas 
north of the Arabian Sea and rather distant from Central Asia, the 
favorite racial homeland of so many theorists. 

7. These centers of civilization apparently depended on factors other 
than those of race. 



THE RYUKYU PEOPLE : A CULTURAL APPEAISAL 



By Maeshalt. T. Newman 

Associate Curator, Division of Physical Anthropology, V, S. National Museum 

and 

Ransom L. Eng 

Former Executive Officer 

Military Qovemment Research Center 

Okinatoa 



[With 5 plates] 
INTRODUCTION 

As United States forces conquered island after island in the Pacific, 
hitherto obscure peoples suddenly became headline news. Such a 
people were the Ryukyuans who were living a simple agrarian life as 
vassals of the Japanese on a chain of small islands between southern 
Japan and Formosa. But with the invasion beginning March 27, 
1945, the islands, especially Okinawa, became household words over- 
night. After organized Japanese resistance ceased, following 82 
days of bitter fighting, Okinawa and the Ryukyus left the headlines. 
Since the Japanese surrender, Okinawa continues to be important as 
one of the reduced-status bases in the Pacific retained by the United 
States. Currently the civil affairs of the Ryukyu people are admin- 
istered by the United States Army Military Government. 

In view of our interest in the Ryukyus, we have summarized avail- 
able information on the native people from earliest times to the present. 
We have attempted to relate the natural environment of the islands 
and the long history of foreign influence to the native way of life up 
to World War II. Thus we hope to show not only what the native 
life was like but how it came to be that way. To complete the picture 
we have considered the impact of World War II and the effects of the 
American occupation upon the islanders. 

This has not been easy. The archeology of the Ryukyus is little 
laiown, and the early written records usually show either a Chinese 
or Japanese bias. Satisfactory racial and cultural studies of the 

379 



380 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947 

Kyukyus do not exist. Although many Americans have observed 
the war's effect upon the Ryukyuans and their culture, no one has 
published a full account. In the following summary, therefore, we 
have had to do our best with the information at hand.^ 

THE NATURAL ENVIRONMENT 

The Ryukyu islands form a curving chain extending 775 miles 
southwest from southern Japan to within sight of Formosa off the 
China coast. Consequently cultural influences and political pressures 
from China and Japan have bulked large in the Ryukyus' destiny. 
The Ryukyuan chain consists of 11 island groups and numerous scat- 
tered islets totaling a land area smaller than Delaware, larger than 
Rhode Island, but housing almost as many people as the two States 
together. Geologically the islands are the tops of three submerged 
mountain chains closely ranged together as if they were the strands 
of a necklace. 

Ryukyu waters are warmed by the Japanese current, intensifying the 
heat of the southern monsoonal winds in the summer and ameliorating 
the cold of the northern monsoons in the winter. In this way seasonal 
climatic variation is less in the south than in the northern part of the 
chain. Rainfall is sufficiently heavy to stimulate lush natural vegeta- 
tion on most of the islands, but the scarcity of natural reservoirs and 
the great depth of the ground-water table render the water supply a 
major problem on most of the islands. In addition, typhoons are 
frequent between May and October. Ryukyu homes and other build- 
ings are built with the destructive forces of these storms in mind, but 
great property damage still results. Since typhoons usually strike 
in the growing season, crops are often destroyed. 

The islands themselves have such varied terrains that they defy 
description as a group. Except for some of the low-lying islets, few 
have much flat land. Some have narrow coastal plains of clayey loam 
or sandy soil, overlying limestone deposits. These soils are rather 
fertile, but low-lying strips near the shore are frequently ruined for 
agriculture by tidal waves. Most shore lines show signs of submer- 
gence and the larger islands have bays suitable for anchorage. Where 
the coral reefs have not provided protection along the slowly sinking 
coasts, the sea has attacked the shore and cut cliffs and headlands. 



^ The best source material is in the Navy Department's Civil Affairs Handbook — Ryukyu 
(Loochoo) Islands. It vs^as compiled before the invasion by a Navy Research Group at 
Yale University headed by Prof. George P. Murdock. Yale's Cross-Cultural Survey was 
the major source of information, but data provided by various Federal intelligence agencies 
were also used. We have leaned very heavily upon the Civil Affairs Handbook and the 
Cross-Cultural Survey, and are especially indebted to Professor Murdock for the large part 
he played in both of them. 

We wish to thank Professor Murdock for his cogent criticisms of the manuscript, and 
Dr. Gordon R. Willey for helpful suggestions on organization. We are grateful to the 
U. S. Navy, J. Allen Chase, Dr. Leon Lewis, and Dr. A. C. P. Bakes for the use of their 
photographs. 



RYUKYU PEOPLE — NEWMAN AND ENG 



381 



mm ISLANDS 



O 2S So 



MAI/T/CAL MIL£S 
o SO /oo f£ 



KILOHtTtltS 




lO 



/ 






NORTH 



A° 



,^> AM AM I O SftlMA 
V) TOKUNO SHIM A 



CENTRAL >' 






OJKINOYERABU J/MA 









OK/NArt^A JIM/i 



SOUTH 



J^ 



^ 



./ 









'b. 



JIMA iv_ fr< /SMISAKI ^J/MA 
o '■'"' IRlOMOrS JIMA 



L_ 



I 



FiGUBE 1.— Map of the Ryukyu Islands (adapted from the Navy Department's 
Civil Affairs Handbook, p. v). 

Inland from the coast on most islands, the sloping or gently rolling 
terrain merges into rugged hills beyond. The plateaus and gently 
rolling lands are usually covered with well-drained, moderately fertile 
soils of clay and sand. The best lands are the alluvial soils in the 
shallow valleys. On the slopes of the rugged hills the covering of 
sandy loam has been washed thin, except where it accumulated in 
pockets. At best it is of mediocre fertility. Usually the smaller 
islands are less fertile than the larger, provide a less certain water 
supply, and consequently are less habitable. As in all but the most 
advanced civilizations, the environment has strongly molded and lim- 



382 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947 

ited the way of life. In the Ryukyus, long considered culturally back- 
ward, we shall see how true this is. But first we must give background 
to the cultural picture. 

THE PREHISTORY AND HISTORY 

The Ainu, — The earliest inhabitants of the Ryukyu islands were 
probably a preagricultural food-gathering group closely related to 
the Ainu of northern Japan, but there is no positive evidence for this. 
Allegedly Ainu archeological remains have been reported^ but the 
identifications need checking. It is possible that cultural traits hark- 
ing back to the Ainu ^ have existed in Ryukyu society within the past 
100 years, but the matter has not been fully explored. Physical traits 
of almost certain Ainu origin, however, are said to have been present 
in many Ryukyuans living in the latter part of the nineteenth century.* 
This is the strongest suggestion of an Ainu occupation. If the Ainu 
were the first people in the Ryukyus, they were there in early times — 
the first or even the second millennium B. C. 

The early Japanese. — Sometime before the third century B. C. a new 
people entered Japan from Korea, and spread slowly over the Japanese 
islands pushing back the Ainu there. These invaders were the early 
Japanese who bore a maritime culture of manifest South Asiatic char- 
acter, and were closely related racially to the Southern Mongoloids. 
Some of these early Japanese settled in the Ryukyus, where they prob- 
ably outnumbered the Ainu. The Ryukyu language, a sister tongue 
to Japanese, is attributable to these newcomers, and it is likely that 
they brought agriculture to the islands. 

The early history of Chinese and Japanese contact. — Chinese annals 
of the third century B. C. contain the first historic mention of the 
Ryukyu Islands. But it was not until the early seventh century A. D. 
that the Chinese sent an information-collecting embassy there. Twelve 
years later Japanese records indicated that a delegation from the 
North Ryukyus paid their respects to the empress in Tokyo. During 
this early historic period Ryukyu relations with Japan were even more 
tenuous than with China, and were almost wholly carried on by upper- 
class people in the port towns of the island chain. 

In the eleventh and twelfth centuries Japanese legendary history 
mentions small movements of people from Kyushu to the Ryukyus. 
Some of these emigres were displaced nobility. The most famous was 
the archer Tametomo, who is said to have sired King Shunten — the 
ruler of Okinawa from 1187 to 1237. When Shunten ascended the 
throne, the Kyushu prince of Satsuma was given theoretical jurisdic- 
tion over the Ryukyus. This is part of the modern Japanese claim to 
the islands. 



- See Newman and Eng, 1947, pp. 114-116. 

' See Murdock, 1934, pp. 163-191, for a description of how the recent Ainu lived. 

* Newman and Eng, 1947, pp. 121-123. 



RTUKYU PEOPLE — NEWMAN AND ENG 383 

The 'period of greatest Chinese influence {1372-1609). — In the late 
thirteenth century China attempted to dominate the Rjukyiis politi- 
cally, and by 1372 had the Okinawa king paying tribute. With this 
entering wedge, Chinese-Ryulcyu trade increased. This started a flow 
of more advanced customs and ideas into the islands, producing modi- 
jQcations in political structure, law and medical practice, the arts and 
literature, and funerary procedures. These modifications were largely 
felt by the upper classes, while the Ryukyu commoners continued their 
work-a-day life with little change. The net eifect, however, was cul- 
tural advancement for the Ryukyus. In 1579 a Chinese emperor called 
the islands "The Land of Propriety." This title is deserved even to 
this day. 

In the fifteenth century Japan forced the Ryukyuans to pay tribute 
to them as well. Perceptive islanders at that time could probably see 
that they were caught between their more powerful neighbors. 

The sweetpotato, destined to become the staple food of the Ryukyus, 
was introduced from China in 1605. In 1623 sugarcane was brought 
in. Neither became vital to the Ryukyu economy for over two 
centuries. 

The period of the Japanese protectorate {1609-1871), — Angered by 
the Ryukyuans' refusal to help in the Korean war, Japan conquered 
the North and Central Ryukyus in 1609. The North Ryukyus were 
ceded to her, and these islands were Japanese-governed from then on. 
The other islands retained more independence, at least in domestic 
issues, but larger questions of policy were settled by agents from Japan. 
Nevertheless the Chinese-style civil state was permitted to exist there 
for 260 more years. 

Since China's ports were closed to Japanese ships from 1552 to 1643, 
and in 1636 Japanese merchants were forbidden to leave their country, 
the Ryukyu Islands became extremely useful as a means of indirect 
trade between the two countries. Naha, the main port of Okinawa, 
was used as a way-station in commercial transactions of high profit to 
China and Japan. The Ryukyus gained little capital benefit, and 
their position in this commerce can be likened to the trained fishing 
cormorants in the Orient that are kept on a string and forced to 
relinquish most of their catch. 

2'he period of Japanese rule {1871-191^5.) — In the nineteenth cen- 
tury the Western powers showed enough interest in the Rj^ukyus to 
make the Japanese apprehensive. So in 1871, just 18 years after 
Admiral Perry broke the Japanese policy of seclusion, the Ryukyus 
were formally annexed by Japan over China's protests. Within a 
few years all the island chain was organized along Japanese lines. 
The colonial policy fostered complete assimiliation of the Ryukyus 
into the political, economic, and cultural structure of the expanding 
Empire. In the 68 years before World War II this assimilation was 

777488 — 48 28 



384 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 194 7 

most complete in the North Ryukyus which Japan had dominated 
since the early seventeenth century. It was least complete in the un- 
developed South Ryukyus, where much of the old culture still exists 
today. 

Yet complete assimilation of the Ryukju people was impossible 
since, despite official protestations of brotherhood, the islanders were 
looked down upon as uncouth rustics by the Japanese. The Ryukyu- 
ans had their own pride and according to Murdock (personal com- 
munication) considered themselves a subnationality of the Japanese. 
Thus they were Japanese in about the same way the Scots are British. 

Cultural changes under the Japanese. — Officially imposed changes 
in Ryukyu culture were effected during the 74 years of full Japanese 
rule. These changes were cataclysmic to the upper-class natives, but 
were much more lightly felt by the commoners. And the smaller, 
less accessible islands were affected the least. 

The Japanese commenced their assault on Ryukyu culture by lop- 
ping off the top of the native social hierarchy. By the 1920's the rigid 
and numerous class distinctions had disappeared. Almost everyone 
was a commoner, except for the Japanese officials, who were strictly 
top-dog. With the social reform, there was a reapportioning of arable 
land. Under the Ryukyu monarchy, land had been granted in fief 
to the upper classes, and the rest was divided communally among the 
peasants. But beginning in 1899 the land was allotted in small plots 
to independent farmers. Contrary to Japanese expectations, this did 
not increase the over-all yield, but it distributed the food supply more 
evenly among the people. 

The Japanese inheritance laws were properly designed to keep the 
land within the family, but younger children did not receive a share. 
Since the small plots could onlj support an expanding family with 
difficulty, landless young men and women were often forced to seek 
a livelihood elsewhere. This tended to weaken the family structure. 
Although Japanese administrators were aware of this danger, they 
merely resorted to palliative measures. 

The changes in planting of crops stimulated the food economy. In 
the final centuries of the Ryukyu monarchy, heavy subsidies were paid 
to wet-rice growers, and the number of flooded fields greatly increased. 
At the same time sugarcane growing was restricted. Since Ryukyu 
rice lacked hardiness and abundant yield, required scarce water, and 
took a lot of work, this was an impractical plan. Under the Japanese, 
sweetpotato and sugarcane raising were encouraged, and were, respec- 
tively, the primary food and cash crops of the islands. 

Ryukyu food habits in the 1930's showed a strong shift to rice, but 
only half the required amount could be produced locally. Conse- 
quently, to reduce the necessary imports, Japanese agronomists 
introduced Formosa No. 65 rice, which was hardier and had several 



RYUKYU PEOPLE — NEWMAN AND ENG 385 

times the yield of local varieties. As a result, in the few years before 
World War II, Ryukyu farmers were shifting back to wet rice where- 
ever the land permitted. 

Direct economic ties with Japan also stimulated local industries, 
especially sugar and silk production. This brought money and goods 
to the Ryukyus, but having part of the economy geared to world 
markets rendered the islands more susceptible to depressions. This is 
especially true when a country exports only two major products. So 
the drop in sugar prices after World War I caused widespread suffer- 
ing in the Ryukyus, and large numbers left for lands of better 
opportunity. 

Although industrial development never proceeded far in the Ryu- 
kyus, there was enough to threaten the old system of household crafts. 
This forced a shift in certain manufactures from the household to the 
factory, and required some workers to leave their homes and villages 
in pursuit of work. The Japanese-style mutual benefit associations, 
which appeared to be eagerly seized by Ryukyu craftsmen, did not 
compensate for the threat to the household. 

A corollary change was the decline of native arts and crafts which 
the local market could not support and Japanese consumers did not 
care for. As an example, Ryukyu lacquerware of considerable artistic 
excellence used to be made, but the traditional designs lost out to 
Japanese styles. The native theater, dances, and music, formerly 
sponsored by the upper classes, disintegrated with their disappear- 
ance. The folk art of the peasants in the rural and more isolated areas 
is all that remains. 

The effects of the assault on the old-time native religion are hard 
to gage, although no foreign creed ever had a large popular following 
in the Ryukyus. With the social and land reforms of this century, 
however, the native priestesses or "noros" lost their hereditary lands. 
Lacking their former wealth, these priestesses lost some influence, but 
were said to be still powerful in out-of-the-way places. With the rise 
of Japanese nationalism, official efforts were made to impose state 
Shintoism on the Ryukyus. This met with greater success in the 
North Ryukus than elsewhere. 

Under Japanese rule, the population of the Ryukyus increased tre- 
mendously. From about 600,000 in 1890, it reached a peak of almost 
880,000 in 1935. The natural increase was actually greater than this 
since about 200,000 Ryukyuans left the islands between 1920 and 1940 
in search of better opportunities. Since immigration to the Ryukyus 
has been negligible within historic times, this rise in population meant 
an increased live birth rate, a lowered death rate, or both. Whatever 
the exact reasons for this gain, it was surely the most compelling 
reason for the great exodus of people to other lands. Out-movement 
became essential to the economic balance of the overcrowded islands. 



386 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947 

It got rid of extra mouths to feed, and remittances sent home by 
prospering relatives abroad helped offset the unfavorable balance of 
trade recently characteristic of Ryukyu economy. 

THE CULTURE 
The Food Economt 

The earliest inhabitants of the Ryukyus were probably scattered 
bands of hunters and fishermen, totaling only a very few thousand. 
Later, the introduction of agriculture, perhaps by the early Japanese, 
set the stage for a dense population. The intensive exploitation of 
arable land is as basic as the heavy Chinese and Japanese influences 
in the establishment of the complex feudalistic pattern of Ryukyu 
culture. Other factors which greatly influenced the local food econ- 
omy were the seventeenth-century introduction of the sweetpotato, 
and the twentieth-century contributions by the Japanese toward more 
scientific farming. 

The physical nature of the islands themselves has largely deter- 
mined the limits of Ryukyu food production. In the Central and 
South Ryukyus, about one-quarter of the total land area was culti- 
vated in 1989, with a smaller proportion under cultivation in the North 
Ryukyus. The total cultivated area perhaps could be increased 50 
percent by farming potentially arable but untouched land, especially 
in the relatively undeveloped southern islands. 

Almost three-quarters of the Ryukyu households engage in inten- 
sive subsistence farming, with many of them growing sugarcane as a 
cash crop. The prime food crop was the hardy sweetpotato, although 
just before World War II rice was becoming more of a dietary main- 
stay (see p. 384) . In the late 1930's almost half of the cultivated land 
was devoted to raising sweetpotatoes. The small family plots of land, 
usually on the less fertile plateaus and gentle hill slopes, often pro- 
duced two crops a year. As with all Ryukyu farming, cultivation 
was almost entirely done by hoe, although single horse or ox plows 
were occasionally used. Since sweetpotatoes are likely to rot in 
storage, it was customary to grate and then dry the surplus for future 
consumption. Lacking the knowledge of how to preserve part of 
the crop against a "rainy day," the sweetpotato never would have 
become a year-round staple food. 

Rice was second in importance as a food crop, and was mostly grown 
in irrigated paddies in the shallow valleys and alluvial plains. Irri- 
gated fields total about 10 percent of all the cultivated land in the 
Central and South Ryulcyus, with a higher figure for the North 
Ryukyus where more rice was grown. In the North, there was one 
crop a year; in the Central and South, two were raised. Although 
about 40 percent of the farms in the two-crop area had rice paddies. 



RYUKYU PEOPLE — NEWMAN AND ENG 387 

they were usually small and averaged half an acre. With the demand 
twice the supply in the late 1930's, rice imports from Japan were high. 
During World War II, these imports were reduced. 

Ii3aikyu methods of wet-rice culture were virtually the same as those 
of other Far Eastern countries. Irrigation involved no reservoirs or 
canals, but only called for diverting stream water into narrow chan- 
nels to the terraced paddies. The water then filtered from higher to 
lower paddy. Manure, night soil, cover crops, compost, and some 
commercial fertilizers were used on rice and other fields. The use of 
all available natural fertilizers, so shocking to people of the Western 
world, was characteristic of the extreme economy of Ryukyu life. 
The hoeing or plowing, harrowing and leveling, transplanting of 
seedlings, weeding, and harvesting were almost wholly done by hand. 

Other grains were grown, but did not bulk as large as food crops. 
These were wheat, millet, and barley. Although broadcast sowing 
was known, it was more usual to plant seed in rows of holes with a 
simple digging stick. Some root crops other than the sweetpotato 
were cultivated in minor quantities. Truck gardening and raising of 
hay and other forage crops were little practiced. On steep slopes and 
otherwise infertile lands, cycads {Cycas revoluta) were grown from 
seedlings. The pith of these trees was washed, dried, and made into 
sago flour, which was used by the very poor, or in times of famine. 
Under the Eyukyu monarchy, cycad cultivation was sufficiently im- 
portant to have an official in charge of it. 

Sugarcane was grown as a cash crop on about one-quarter of the 
cultivated land in the Kyukyus. It was preferably planted in the clay 
soils of the coastal plains, but was especially susceptible to typhoon 
damage there. Most plots were small, rarely over an acre in size. 
Although there were a few large sugar "centrals" most of the cane was 
crushed in small, literally one-horse mills of original Chinese design. 
The cane juice was then boiled, put in clay trays for drying, and ex- 
ported in unrefined state. 

Animal husbandry and fishing were overshadowed by agriculture. 
Most farm households had a hog or two and several goats. Fewer 
owned horses and cattle. Stock farms were almost nonexistent in the 
Ryukyus, so most of the slaughterhouse meat came from the small 
farms. Home-grown pork was more frequently eaten than other meat. 
It was a large enough item in the diet to elicit the contemptuous nick- 
name "Pork-eater" from the Japanese. At the onset of the war, meat 
consumption was cut until it reached the average table only about four 
times a year. 

Most Ryulcyu fishermen operated from small offshore craft. (See 
pi. 3, center.) Their commercial catch was small compared to the few 
deep-sea fishermen who seined, drag-netted, and hooked bonito from 
large boats. More commercial fishing was done in the North Ryukyus 



388 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 194 7 

than elsewhere. Lack of a well-equipped fishing fleet restricted the 
over-all catch, although Kyukyuans were famous all over the Pacific 
as fishermen. Their commercial fishing techniques were unexcelled 
throughout the world, according to professional fishing men (Mur- 
dock, personal communication). 

Otheb Work 

While three-quarters of the gainfully employed produced food, the 
remainder made a living in crafts, services, and commerce. The pro- 
portions employed in these categories were, respectively, 12, 7, and 5 
percent in 1930 ^ for the Central and South Ryukyus. Most of those 
engaged in crafts made goods of Japanese design for export. A smaller 
number produced hand-made utilitarian items for the local markets, 
or were in the building trade. The rest did relatively unskilled manual 
work in such industries as mining, quarrying, and lumbering. 

In the Central and South Eyukyus, the major service occupations 
were, in descending order, banking and insurance; hotel, restaurant, 
and entertainment ; transportation ; domestic service ; education ; and 
government service. The numbers m religious, legal, medical, literary, 
and artistic fields were notably small, but need not indicate intellectual 
impoverishment under the Japanese. On the contrary, the literacy 
rate was high, and even the peasant homes appear to contain more and 
better books than the average American home (Murdock, personal 
communication ) . 

In the field of commerce, most of the people were small local mer- 
chants, although a few had trade connections with Japan and For- 
mosa. Most rural settlements had general markets where vendors 
sold food, ceramics, cloth, and tools, but these were on a decline in 
the 1930's and 1940's. Specialized markets for such commodities 
as livestock were located in the larger towns. Retail shops in the 
cities increased in number, owing perhaps to the influx of Japanese 
capital there. In addition, a few branch stores were established by 

Japanese firms. 

Food Habits and Diet 

With the exception of some food imports and local barter, the 
Ryukyuan people ate what they raised and caught. Sweetpotatoes, 
therefore, were the national food, with rice an important secondary 
item. Other vegetables, such as soy beans, cabbages, carrots, green 
onions, eggplants, squash, cucumbers, taro, and small tomatoes, were 
eaten only in minor quantities since many households did not raise 

* It is improbable that the 1940's brought much change in these figures. As Japan 
girded itself for war, some Ryukyuan weavers were forced into other occupations, and others 
were conscripted for work in the Empire's war plants, or for military service abroad. Of 
those remaining in the Ryukyus, the proportions engaged in food production, crafts, services, 
and commerce probably remained the same. 



RYUKYU PEOPLE — NEWMAN AND ENG 389 

truck gardens. Some flour from wheat, millet, or barley was used, 
but usually just for occasional fancy baking. Noodles and imported 
vermicelli were also used. Fresh fruits were rarely eaten. Fish and 
especially meat were "prestige" foods, which is another way of saying 
that not everyone could afford them. They appeared on the family 
table as often as availability and buying power permitted. Horse 
mackerel, shark, flyingfish, tuna, and bonito represented the largest 
coastal catches. Cuttlefish, octopus, shellfish, and seaweed were also 
taken. In times of famine, the coral reefs and rock pools were 
thoroughly searched for edibles. Most of the meat was pork, with 
goat flesh secondary in importance. When not eaten fresh, it was 
salted down for future use. Beef was also eaten, but was more likely 
to be exported on the hoof. Indeed, many farm households felt they 
could ill afford not to sell much of their livestock. 

Food was most usually boiled or cooked in vegetable oil or pork 
fat. Steaming and baking in brick ovens were practiced in some 
households. Foods were seldom eaten fresh or raw. The most com- 
mon seasoning was soy bean sauce, and in addition salt, vinegar, and 
tomato paste were used. 

Compared to Western dietary standards,^ Kuylcyu diet appears to 
be bulky and to have a high carbohydrate content. It has been sug- 
gested that the unusually long, large colon of the Kyukyuans may 
be an adaptation to this bulky vegetarian fare.'^ High-quality pro- 
teins and fats seem somewhat lacking in their diets. Further analysis 
might indicate a low intake of one or more of the B vitamins. But 
regardless of how the diet measures up to modern nutritional de- 
siderata, the Ryukyuans did very well on it. On the basis of their 
hardiness, longevity, fertility, and small amount of metabolic dis- 
turbances and deficiency diseases, Steiner (1947, p. 241) feels the 
diet to be well suited to the people. This in turn would imply the 
basic adequacy of the food economy. 

Technology and Akt 

ArchiteeW/re. — Public buildings built in modern times closely fol- 
low Japanese and occasionally Western architectural styles and are 
usually of cut and mortared stone or concrete construction. The old 
castles and shrines of yesteryear Ryukyu show considerable Chinese 
as well as Japanese influence. The larger ancient structures were 
strongly constructed of cut stone, and ones like Shuri castle were even 
hard to reduce by bombing and shellfire. Smaller edifices were made 
of stone or mortised frame and panel construction. 

Home dwellings range from the temporary rural hut shown in plate 
4, lower, to urban homes as elaborately made as the priest's house in 

" Sea Steiner, 1946. pp. 18-19 ; 1947, pp. 240-241. 
"' Steiner, 194C, p. 5. 



390 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 194 7 

plate 4, upper. The simple rural houses were usually rectangular with 
thatched roofs and walls made of two layers of bamboo lattice with a 
straw filler in between. No windows were used, sometimes even a smoke 
hole was lacking, and the floors were often packed earth. Better rural 
homes had more rooms, paneled walls, raised board flooring, and even 
tiled roofs, but this was more the urban style. In these homes the 
family shrine occupied an important place in one of the rooms. It 
was a highly stained and polished waist-high cabinet with frames and 
sliding panel of elaborately cut lattice. Within were at least two steps 
housing family name plates and other objects. The rest of the house 
might be very plain, but the family shrine was as exquisitely made as 
the household could afford. 

Kural dwellings were almost always surrounded by a live hedge, a 
stone wall, or both, if money permitted. As can be seen in plate 3, up- 
per, the entrance to the compound was sometimes guarded by a short 
wall just within. In addition to the main dwelling, there was a stable, 
small storage house, and a pigsty directly under the latrine. A cistern 
or well usually completed the farmstead structures. 

In the urban homes, sliding paneled walls, board flooring, and 
hipped tile roofs were used where they could be afforded. Usually 
these homes were surrounded by a high stone wall. Within the court- 
yard, small storage structures and pigsties were usually present. 

The most unusual feature of Ryukyu architecture was the womb- 
shaped tomb of South Chinese inspiration. (See pi. 3, lower.) Most 
tombs were set into steep banks and hillsides unsuitable for farming, 
but were by far the most costly family edifices. The approach was 
through an outer courtyard walled by hewn rock. These walls 
joined the lateral abutments of the tomb. The tomb itself, carefully 
constructed of concrete or cut stone, was pear-shaped with a flat or low- 
domed roof. The entrance to the funerary vault was large enough to 
admit a coflS.n. Within the vault the remains of recently deceased fam- 
ily members lay in coffins, while the carefully cleaned bones of the long 
dead were deposited in elaborate pottery jars of native make. 

The burial customs were part of the ancestor worship, an integi-al 
part of the old Ryukyu religion, embellished by Chinese customs. 
Currently the Japanese cremate their dead, and have disseminated 
this practice to the North Ryukyus. Cremation was rare, however, 
in the South and Central islands, although not every family could 
afford a burial tomb. Poor families were more likely to place their 
dead in caves or cemeteries. 

A fine family tomb was a prized possession, and took great sacrifice 
to construct. Often a family might live in a hovel, but would labor 
lifetimes to possess a suitable resting place for its dead. A fine tomb 
was considered much more important than a fine home. 

Transportation and communication. — The larger and more heavily 



RYUKYU PEOPLE — NEWMAN AND ENG 391 

populated islands have narrow roads, mostly running along the coasts 
and connecting the larger towns. Few roads were cut through rugged 
terrain, so that the more isolated areas were served only by footpaths. 
Most of the smaller islands had only trails. The roads were usually 
made of limestone topped with coral sand, and were nationally, pre- 
fecturally, or locally maintained. Cut and fitted rock bridges were 
used to traverse streams on the major roads. 

Owing to a heavier population and more favorable terrain, most of 
the roads were in the Central and South Ryukyus. The bulk of these 
were on Okinawa Jima. Even so, the total of 4,000 miles of roads over 
the entire Ryukyus in 1939 is small as compared with areas the same 
size in this country. 

Major Ryukyuan cities had many broad and well-paved streets. In 
1939 Naha and Shuri (combined population of over 80,000) had a street 
system totaling almost 1,300 miles. 

Most of the vehicles were bicycles, rickshas, and horse-drawn carts. 
There were few automobiles and busses. In 1939 the Central and 
South Ryukyus had a total of 504 miles in bus routes. 

Railroads were of little consequence in Rjoikyu transportation and 
were only narrow-gauge spur lines between large towns, or were used 
in nationally-promoted mining and lumbering activities. Steam and 
gasoline engines were used, as well as horse cars. 

Means of water transportation ranged from the single-log native 
dugout through motor launches to the small Japanese steamers which 
touched only the several main ports. Most of the interisland traffic 
was by motor sampans and larger sailing craft. The bulk of the ocean 
travel was by Ryukyuans in search of seasonal or permanent employ- 
ment. Few Japanese or other foreigners visited the islands. 

Communication between the larger islands and Japan was possible 
by radio, submarine cable, airmail, and regular mail. Small post 
offices were located in almost every township, in addition to those in 
the larger towns. Telegraph and telephone lines connected the post 
offices on the same island. In addition to a small circulation of Jap- 
anese newspapers, a handful of 2- to 8-page local papers were printed. 
The circulations were not known, although plenty of newspapers were 
found in abandoned rural homes during the invasion. Both the 
Japanese and local press were rigidly controlled. 

Utility crafts. — The textile industries employed more people than 
all the other crafts combined, and rivaled sugar production in capital 
return. Most of the work was done by hand, producing goods of excel- 
lent quality mainly for Japanese luxury trade. The first ranking tex- 
tile industry was silk, wherein an expert weaver would take 2 or 3 
months to produce 10 yards of high-grade material of 14-inch width. 
Most silk was made in the North R3aikyus. The next most important 



392 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 194 7 

was the Panama-hat industry, confined largely to the Central Kyukyus. 
Linen cloth made from the fibers of the textile banana constituted the 
third industry. Its manufacture was concentrated in the South 
Ryukyus. Other textile products were rush matting, cotton cloth, and 
straw articles. A large part of the weaving in all textile industries 
was done by women on hand looms in small shops or at home. Natural 
dyes, especially indigo and the juice of the Japanese hawthorns, were 
still used, although larger factories had begun aniline dyeing. Both 
batik and vat dyeing were practiced. 

Other manufactures in the Ryukyus were conducted on a very small 
scale. Carpenters and stone masons still performed high-quality 
work in the cities, despite their rather primitive tools. Food process- 
ing and canning accounted for a few more workers, and dealt largely 
in dried bonito, and camied meats and vegetables. Other small in- 
dustries only worthy of mention were machine and metal work, wood 
and bamboo working, paper manufacture and printing, ceramics and 
tile, and mining and quarrying. 

The arts. — The leveling of the native class system by the Japanese 
had the effect of abolishing the national art of the Ryukyus. Lacking 
upper-class patrons for luxury goods of traditional design, craftsmen 
turned to Japanese markets for an outlet. This meant that the pat- 
terns and decorative styles were dictated by Japanese fashions. Tra- 
ditional designs lost out, except in crafts such as architecture and 
woodworking which catered to the small local market. Ryukyu ce- 
ramics and lacquerware used to be of high artistic excellence, owing 
largely to Chinese influence. Recently, however, only building tile and 
pipe and cheap utilitarian and ornate funerary ware were produced 
for local consumption. The exports followed Japanese designs, usu- 
ally the more gaudy. The textile industries alone retained much of 
the old-time technical excellence, but had to use Japanese styles. 

As with the artistic crafts, the Ryukyu theater, music, and dance 
had distintegrated from lack of upper-class patrons. In the cities 
traditional forms of entertainment were largely replaced by Japanese- 
style performances, especially by geisha. The rural areas still retained 
their folk music and dances, which figured largely at the annual 
festivals. 

The Socio-politicai, Patteen 

Settlement pattern: The family. — The biological family, consist- 
ing of parents and their children, was the basic unit of Ryukyu soci- 
ety. Economic and religious pressures made family ties particularly 
strong. Great family solidarity, almost to the exclusion of other 
loyalties, was encountered by Americans during the invasion. It 
was almost impossible to secure volunteer blood donors or nurses 



RYUKYU PEOPLE — NEWMAN AND ENG 393 

among the Okinawan civilians unless the welfare of an immediate 
family member was involved.^ 

Within the family, the father was the household head, but did not 
achieve the authoritarian status found in Japan. The status of 
women was considerably higher than in Japan or any other country 
in East Asia (Murdock, personal communication). Although all 
contributed to the household's support, the members of a Ryukyu 
family controlled their own finances, and only lent money to other 
members at interest. The differential behavior toward younger and 
older family members, and toward those of the opposite sex was 
almost as formalized as in Japan. These distinctions are reflected 
in their kinship terms, which otherwise are comparable to our own. 
Although some family households were large, the average one 
consisted of four to five people. Many households lost at least one 
member as a result of the heavy 1920-40 emigration, so the size of 
the average family would have been somewhat larger. Reliable in- 
formation on the number of children per family is not available. 
On Okinawa Jima, Steiner (1947, p. 240) states that it averaged five 
or six, but questionnaire returns in 1945 from 1,000 Okinawans gave 
a mean of 3.7 for families having children. 

In Ryukyu society a group of families related in the male line 
formed a clan. Since married sons often settled near their parents' 
households, clan members tended to cluster in communities. In former 
times, these patrilocal clans had considerable power, but more recently 
were overshadowed by the village group and the mutual benefit assoc- 
iations. In out-of-the-way places, the clan still retained its strength. 

Landholding and land tenure. — In the North Ryukyus the Japanese 
pattern of extensive tenancy prevailed, but to the south reallotment 
of small plots to individual farmers early in this century made for 
wide diffusion of private ownership. In 1935 the tenancy rate for the 
Central and South Ryukyus was only 10.5 percent. One thousand 
questionnaire returns from Okinawans in 1945 indicated that 24 per- 
cent were tenant farmers. Small as this sample is, it suggests that 
tenancy increased from 1939 to 1945, possibly as a result of bankruptcy 
of small independent farmers or the breaking up of their families by 
conscription and emigration. 

Most of the privately owned and operated farms in the Ryukyus 
were very small. In 1939 they averaged 2.1 acres in the North, 1.6 
acres in the Central and South Ryukyus. Rights of possession and 
transference of private land were regulated by the Japanese civil code. 
The chief aim of the inheritance laws was to keep the land within 
the family as far as possible. This tended to bolster the household by 
protecting its means of material support. Nevertheless, creditors had 
the right to seize private land in lieu of a debt. 

« Moloney, 1945, p. 395. 



394 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947 

The physical nature of the coTnmunities and their ftmctions. — Since 
the arable land was largely divided into small plots, farm houses were 
not far apart. This can be seen in plate 1, upper. More often, how- 
ever, these houses were clustered in small villages (see pi. 1, lower) 
ranging in size from only a few families to over 1,000 people. These 
villages resulted from a natural growth, perhaps starting with only a 
few related households, and later adding other kin groups and single 
families. These kin groups of a number of households related in the 
male line often formed subsettlements in the rural villages, but were 
generally of less functioning importance than the village group. 

The locations of villages were determined by several factors. The 
desire to conserve arable land for crops favored using the less fertile 
areas for villages. On the other hand, the less readily cultivated 
hilltops and ridges were exposed to the full force of typhoons, and 
hence were often avoided for village sites. For this reason, some 
Okinawans were dismayed at the American tendency to erect hospitals 
and other installations on the higher and more exposed land. More 
usually, therefore, Ryukyu villages were located along the flats, in 
valleys, and on the lee slopes of the hills. 

Most villages had a central area for markets and other communal 
affairs. Festivals, geared to the economic and religious annual cycles, 
were also held there. Also administrative matters, in part passed on 
to the village headman from the township officials, were discussed and 
put into practice in the central area. In any village, this area embodied 
the core of the local society. This was where the people got the word. 

Although the Ryukyus were largely rural, nine settlements became 
large enough to classify as towns or cities. These ranged in size from 
about 7,000 to 66,000, and totaled almost one-quarter of the total 
1940 population of the islands. Several of these, notably Naha on 
Okinawa Jima and Naze on Amami O Shima, were port towns or cities. 
The rest were merely overgrown villages, set apart only by their 
size and the presence of modern administrative and commercial build- 
ings. The towns and cities served largely as mercantile centers, and 
also in most cases were the focal points for voting, agricultural, police, 
and postal organizations. 

Class structure. — Although early in this century the Japanese lev- 
eled the native hierachy of social classes, enough time has elapsed 
since then for a social system patterned after the Japanese to begin to 
take hold. In this system holders of administrative and educational 
posts enjoyed the highest status. Next, and pressing these officials 
closely, were the larger landowners. As Murdock (personal com- 
munication) says, a man with five or more acres of farm land was 
considered rich and was much respected. Village heads, assemblymen, 
and teachers were usually drawn from upper middle class landed 
households. Below them were the rank and file of artisans, fishermen, 



RYUKYU PEOPLE — NEWMAN AND ENG 395 

tenant farmers, and small shop, restaurant, and hotel keepers. In 
addition, when sugar prices were high, a small group of nouveau 
riche sugar producers sprang up to occupy top positions in the upper 
middle class until the market turned downward. 

Associations. — Occasionally cutting across the growing class lines, 
but mostly operating within the class level were the characteristically 
Japanese associations, designed to align those people interested in ac- 
complishing specific things. Some of these were government spon- 
sored and controlled, especially the patriotic, reservist, and youth or- 
ganizations. Others were more spontaneous and developed from spe- 
cific economic needs. Of these, farmers' buying and selling coopera- 
tives were the most numerous. As Japan tightened its economic belt 
for war, the government took over many of these spontaneous associa- 
tions to achieve higher production. Other minor associations were 
concerned with civic, cultural, and wholly social affairs. AM associa- 
tions were checked by the police, but sometimes this was only 
perfunctory. 

Formal government. — In the Japanese administration, the prefec- 
ture stands immediately below the Imperial Government and usually 
deals with the local units directly. The Northern Ryukyus were ad- 
ministered as part of Kagoshima prefecture; the Central and South 
Ryukyus, comprising the whole of Okinawa prefecture, were admin- 
istered as a unit. Prefectural governors were appointed by the Prime 
Minister, and operated with a secretariat and four departments — 
General Aifairs, Education, Economic Affairs, and Police. An elec- 
tive assembly served the governor in a largely advisory capacity and 
had virtually no power. In addition representatives of the various 
Imperial Ministries were assigned their specific duties in the Ryukyus. 
Except for the governor, his advisors, and an occasional high official, 
most of the administrative posts were held by Ryukyuans. 

Within the prefectural governments in the Ryukyus, branch offices 
were established on the more remote islands to facilitate their admin- 
istration. Two such offices were present in the North, two more in 
the South Ryukyus. The Central islands were themselves the seat 
of the Okinawa prefectural government and needed no branch offices. 

The seats of the local administrative units were the cities, towns, or 
in rural areas, townships. In all cases the mayor or headman and 
their staffs were elected by the local assembly, which in turn was 
chosen by popular vote of all male residents over 25 years old. These 
city, town, and township administrations could operate autonomously 
in purely local issues, subject of course to a veto from higher up. On 
policy matters, however, their courses of action were dictated to them. 
In rural areas the village heads were appointed by the township head- 
man and served without salary, but had local prestige well worth the 
troubles of office. 



396 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947 

Religion 

The native animistic religion has survived in little-modified form 
in the Central and South Kyukyus. Owing to long-time Japanese 
domination, it was less strong in the Northern islands. Its strength, 
however, from Okinawa south is indicated by the absurdly small num- 
ber of adherents to foreign religions in that area. For 1937 less than 
4 percent of the people were Buddhists, less than 2 percent Shintoists, 
and only 0.2 percent Christians. This means that 94 percent of the 
people practiced their old-time religion, although a few may have 
had no religious feelings at all. 

The essence of this folk religion was the endowment of natural 
phenomena with supernatural forces. Thus fire, mountain peaks, the 
sea, and groves of trees made up a pantheon of spirits, to which the 
people paid homage. Locally sacred areas were marked by fetishes. 
Temples came as a later, probably foreign-influenced, development. 

The worship of these vague naturalistic spirits is an old and very 
widespread form of religion. Particularly striking in Ryukyu 
religion was the veneration of the hearth, which was sacred to the 
fire god. Also noteworthy was the cult of sacrosanct priestesses, or 
"noros," for whom celibacy was once a requirement of office. These 
"noros" were almost the sole religious practitioners of the native reli- 
gion, although lesser female assistants took minor roles. The office of 
"noro" was largely confined to certain families and was passed on from 
generation to generation with the paraphernalia of sacred objects — a 
vesture, tablets inscribed with names of ancestral priestesses, a string 
of crystal beads with jewels or stones in between, and a fire-god fetish. 

Almost every village had a "noro" who sometimes wielded gi-eat 
enough power to reverse the will of the people. A "noro" figured 
prominently in the village-square festivals and was consulted at other 
times for prayers and advice. Less benevolent practitioners were the 
fortune-tellers, or "yuta," who in addition to clairvoyance, would pro- 
pitiate evil spirits and ghosts. The Japanese administrators felt the 
"yuta" abused their influence and in recent times outlawed their 
operations. 

The Lite Cycle 

There is little information on childbirth practices in the Ryukyus 
immediately prior to the war. In 1939 the ratio of physicians was 
about 3.5 per 10,000 population, and the number of registered mid- 
wives not much higher. The 1945 questionnaire administered to 471 
Okinawan mothers indicated that 58 percent of the women were 
attended by midwives for the last child, with the remainder almost 
wholly unattended professionally. 

Formerly, both mother and child were kept close to the sacred 
family hearth for a week, while friends and relatives made loud music 



RYUKYU PEOPLE — NEWMAN AND ENG 397 

day and night. This custom may still persist in out-of-the-way areas. 
Other ancient customs, such as placing a crab on the male baby's head 
to insure early crawling, may also be found in the recent culture. 

Once the baby came into the Ryukyu world, we have the word of 
an American psychiatrist ° that it was well mothered. Of 241 Oki- 
nawan mothers questioned in 1945, the average age of weaning their 
last child was 3.8 years (Japanese).^" During that time a mother 
seldom left her child, but carried it on her back in a sling. No set 
feeding schedules were followed, but the baby was nursed when it 
desired. Wlien it was weaned the baby was taken over by a substi- 
tute mother, usually the next elder sister. These "little mothers" 
carried their charges in slings or led them around, and continued the 
Ryukyu system of good mothering. In contrast to the Japanese who 
commence rigid bowel training well before a baby is 1 year old 
(Western), Ryukyu mothers made no such attempt until their off- 
spring reached at least a year and a half. At that time the training 
was largely a matter of emulating the older children. A significant 
aspect of child training is pointed out by Moloney (1945, p. 394), who 
states that only once did he see a Ryukyu mother corporally punish 
her child. 

When the child was over 3l^ years old (Western) it was ready for 
school operated under the Japanese educational system. As Moloney 
(1945, p. 394) says, "One not familiar with psychological maturative 
processes would be inclined to believe that the Okinawan brand of 
mothering would produce a self-centered, a spoiled, an undisciplined 
child. On the contrary, they show themselves capable of harmonious 
social cooperation * * *. Calm, confident, and without fear, they 
obeyed their elders, but were not obsequious." He emphasizes that 
Japanese doctrine did not reach a Ryukyu child until, under the pro- 
tective tutelage of the home, its basic personality structure was al- 
ready well consolidated. During the next 6 years in the nominally 
compulsory lower elementary school, Japanese indoctrination only 
made a superficial impression on the children. Like their parents, 
they learned to pay "a superficial and expedient homage to Imperial 
Japan." 

Differential treatment of boys and girls began at preschool age and 
was continued with more force in the schools. At early ages, both 
sexes were taught their ascribed status in society, so that they knew 
how to treat those people with whom they came in contact. These 
behavior patterns for girls required more humility and deference than 
for boys. In the early training of both sexes, however, respect for 

» Moloney, 1945, pp. 392. 

" In Japan and the Ryukyus a baby is considered 1 year old at birth, and picks up 
another year the following January 1. Thus a baby born December 31 is 2 years old the 
following day, but a baby born January 1 does not become 2 years old until the following 
January 1. On the arerage, Japanese ages are 1% years ahead of Western ages. 



398 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947 

elders was emphasized. The etiquette of ostentatious self-abasement, 
however, never reached the heights seen in modern Japan. "Face" 
was nevertheless important in Ryukyu society, and the mechanisms 
of face-saving were learned early in life. 

Ordinarily a child attended school for 6 to 8 years. Emphasis there 
was placed in the following order upon Japanese-style "ethics," the 
Japanese language, use of the abacus for working arithmetical prob- 
lems, and memorization of large numbers of Chinese characters. For 
the sake of "health" and also to promote national solidarity, group 
calisthenics were often coordinated by radio with similar activities 
all over Japan. 

During the school years, boys and girls were taught to be useful at 
home, and shouldered household burdens as soon as they were able. 
Girls usually took care of younger brothers or sisters. Boys assisted 
older men in the family in the more specialized male tasks. Both 
boys and girls did their stint in the field, especially at harvest time, 
often dropping out of school to do so. 

At the age of 13 (Japanese) , both went through coming-of-age cere- 
monies. These involved the first wearing of adult clothes, symbolic of 
the end of childhood and the assumption of a grown-up role in soci- 
ety. In recent times these ceremonies were of a more perfunctory na- 
ture, particularly since schooling might not be completed until the next 
year, or even later if more advanced education was desired and could 
be afforded. 

At about the turn of the century, 14 to 17 years was considered the 
proper time for marriage. Matches were almost always arranged by 
the parents. In the 1920's and IQSO's, however, marriages began taking 
place later in life. By 1937 the average ages for first marriages were 
27 for men and 24 for women. Obviously, as in Japan and the United 
States, most young Ryukyuans were not well enough fixed financially 
to marry in the 'teens. In addition, military conscription took many 
young men out of circulation for a while when they reached 20 years 
of age. 

The betrothal in an arranged marriage involved visiting ceremonies, 
led by intermediaries. Details varied locally, and some of the mar- 
riage customs described in the literature may no longer be practiced. 
Both the "wife search" in the North, and "bride capture" in the South 
Ryukyus may now be things of the past. The marriage ceremony it- 
self was held in the groom's home. It was sometimes customary for 
the groom's party to leave the bride for a belated and lengthy "bach- 
elor dinner" but this luxury could not be afforded by the average young 
farmer. 

Ryukyu marriages were easily broken by common consent with a 
minimum of family turmoil. The divorce rate in the Central and 
South Ryukyus was higher in the 1930's than in any other Japanese 



RYUKYU PEOPLE — NEWMAN AND ENG 399 

prefect. The broken homes occasioned by easy divorce apparently 
did not cause appreciable maladjustment in the children. The reasons 
for this are obscure and would merit special study. 

Almost all married couples and their children lived in a narrow 
work-a-day world which called for hard labor and great frugality. 
Americans were particularly impressed with Ryukyu woman's hard lot, 
not realizing her relatively high social status. It is true that the 
women worked in the fields, did the housekeeping, raised children, 
carried heavy burdens, marketed much of the produce, and performed 
many other routine tasks. But the men of the working class also 
worked hard. Theirs were more specialized tasks, such as building, 
carpentry, and irrigation, as well as a good part of agricultural work. 
Both sexes were extraordinarily well muscled and hardy. The small 
number of days a year when they were too sick to work would make 
a proud record in the United States. 

This physically strenuous life, coupled with low emotional tensions 
and a simple and largely vegetarian diet, apparently made for late 
senility (Steiner, 1946, pp. 22-23). The number of elderly people 
compared favorably with that of Western countries noted for their 
medical science. Outstanding in the Kyukyus was the very small 
amount of heart disease, alimentary and kidney disorders, cancer, and 
other degenerative changes so common in the more civilized world. 

Old people were able to remain active most of their lives. When 
they could no longer carry on, their families took care of them. Above 
all, special care was taken to give them a proper funeral and place the 
coffin in the family tomb. Years later the unmarried girls of the fam- 
ily would carefully clean the bones in sweetpotato brandy, and rev- 
erently place them in a funerary urn. Within the vault these urns 
were arranged on an altar according to the status and kinship of the 
persons whose bones they contained. The bones of the husband and 
wife were often placed together in a single urn, so they could grow 
old together. It is reported ^^ that the tombs were deliberately fash- 
ioned in the shape of a womb, and that the Ryukyuans considered death 
merely a return to the place from whence they came. 

The Ryukyu Culture Pattekn and the Ryukyuan's Wori>d View 

In the past 1,000 years or more, the influences of Chinese and Jap- 
anese civilizations were largely absorbed by the upper class of Ryu- 
kyuans. Some of these foreign customs filtered through to the com- 
moners, who in the main went on eking out their simple rural exist- 
ence much on the same cultural level as the medieval Japanese peasant. 
After Japan annexed the Ryukyus, she lopped off the upper classes 
there, placing almost everyone in commoner's status. 

" Moloney, 3 945, p. 396 ; Steiner, 1947, p. 311. We consider these reports of questionabie 
validity, but cannot disprove tliem. 

777488—48 29 



400 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947 

What remained of the indigenous Ryukyu culture was only the 
peasant part of it. The esoteric character of the upper-class native 
life was lost, to be replaced by Japanese customs. The peasant cul- 
ture has been outwardly changed by new food plants, limited partici- 
pation in world trade, Chinese manners, and Japanese regulations. 
Yet inwardly it reflects an old pattern, the core of which probably 
goes back to an early agricultural level. 

This core is the food economy. It has never been easy for peasants 
to make a living in Ryukyus, and to do so most effectively has re- 
quired hard physical work, cooperative effort, and frugality. This 
hard work was performed cooperatively by family members, who 
farmed small plots of land in tenancy or actual ownership. This 
placed tremendous strength in the in-group solidarity of the family, 
which was reinforced by a religion emphasizing the sacredness of the 
household hearth and the veneration of ancestors. Within the family 
relationships were regulated by differential behavior patterns for 
each member. Only enough freedom of action was permitted to ab- 
sorb domestic tensions and alleviate otherwise intolerable personality 
clashes. Where husband and wife were so unsuited as to threaten 
family solidarity, divorces occurred. These were accomplished with 
a minimum of controversy, the wife returned to her people, and the 
rest of the family carried on until a more suitable wife and mother 
was brought in. Children were usually extremely well mothered, 
and were serenely brought up to take their ascribed adult status in 
the family and the immediate society. Family "face" was as impor- 
tant as individual "face." Both were preserved at almost any cost. 

Village ties were much less important than the solidarity of the 
family, but in modern times transcended the bonds of the patrilineal 
clan. Ties to the village were motivated largely by economic matters. 
Cooperative building, construction of roads, and improvement and 
repair of irrigation systems were some of the village enterprises. 
Group participation in religious ceremonials and social events, mar- 
riage bonds between village families, and the village market helped 
cement village solidarity. In times of great stress, although a 
Ryukyuan would do a great deal for his family, he would probably 
make no great sacrifices for a fellow villager. In all probability, he 
would reject the thought of aiding an outsider. The loyalties were 
first to the family and then to the village. In his world view, the 
Ryukyuan probably did not see far beyond either one. 

To make a living in the Ryukyus, everything had to be used. How 
else could four or five people derive their support from an acre and a 
half of hand-tilled soil ? Projecting this frugality into the psychologi- 
cal realm, Moloney (1945, pp. 394-395) suggests that it makes for the 
realistic attitude that worthless things, people included, are to be 
rejected. As he says, "Apparently * * * social consciousness 



RYUKYU PEOPLE — NEWMAN AND ENG 401 

does not extend to that which is no longer valuable" (ibid, p. 395). 
As an Okinawan might have expressed it in a United States Navy 
hospital (see p. 392) , "Why should I give blood to a countryman whom 
I don't know, and who will probably die anyway?" In terms of this 
realism, and the in-group solidarity which blots out other ties, there 
would be no answer to him. 

The possession of a sometimes ruthless realism did not render the 
Ryukyuans "almost devoid of religious sentiments," as Leavenworth 
(1905, p. 38) would have it. To be sure, few natives were converted 
to Buddhism or Christianity, but in their own way they made strong 
identifications with the supernatural. It is important to note that 
these identifications were on a practical level. The old-time religion 
held that all of nature was alive and endowed with spirits. Because 
the people realized their helpless dependence upon nature, fire, moun- 
tain peaks, groves, rivers, and the sea were construed as vague but pow- 
erful friendly or unfriendly forces. The prayers and ceremonies were 
to please the friendly forces, and, insofar as their feeble powers per- 
mitted, placate the unfriendly ones. There are no indications that the 
belief in inimical spirit forces made for a fear-ridden society. Possi- 
bly the popular attitude was rather one of resignation, which might be 
expressed as "We will do what we can, and observe all the proprieties. 
Then come what may." In their practice of ancestor worship, the 
elaborate funerary procedures were also carried out to the letter. 
Apparently there was deep satisfaction to be derived from properly 
honoring the dead. A fine tomb for this purpose was a prime goal in 
Ryukyu culture. 

THE WAR AND THE FUTURE 

The assigned task of the Ryukyus during World War II was to 
provide military conscripts and war workers to the Empire and to 
tighten the belts at home. As the Japanese military position became 
desperate, more and more Ryukyuans were fed into the war machine. 
And beginning with the heavy United States air strike on October 10, 
1944, bombed-out natives fled to southern Japan. So by the time of 
the invasion, the civilian population of the Ryukyus was as low as 
it was about 1900. 

Okinawa and adjacent islets felt the smashing effect of a shooting 
invasion, while only the military areas of other islands were bombed 
and shelled by American and British forces. On Okinawa itself, 
some 30,000 able-bodied native men were pressed into the Japanese 
defense force of some 120,000. In many cases their families went with 
them and were caught in the bitter fighting. Most of the civilians, 
however, hid out in the hills and in caves under overcrowded and 
difficult conditions until they were brought out by the Americans. 
In addition to the injuries of war, the lack of food, warm clothing, 



402 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 19 47 

sanitation, and medical care took heavy toll. One out of eight died 
as a result of the invasion and the losses of able-bodied men and of 
infants were proportionally much higher. 

The Okinawan civilians were crowded into Military Government 
camps back of the lines (see pi. 2). Until the salvaged food in the 
area of these camps was exhausted, most interned Okinawans were 
fed enough to sustain life. None were fat, and emaciation, while not 
the average condition, was common enough. By early summer, their 
losses in body weight were not as great as their hardships would lead 
one to suppose. 

In midsummer of 1945 most of the 300,000 civilians were transported 
to new Military Government camps in the more barren northern part 
of Okinawa. There they suffered great privations despite American 
efforts to take care of them properly. Housing was most primitive 
(see pi. 4, lower) , sanitary facilities and water supply were meager, and 
food was considered abundant if one day's supply was on hand. In 
the early fall a nutritional survey (Culbert and Lewis, 1945) reported 
that 10 percent were on the borderline of starvation, while 43 percent 
showed signs of early malnutrition. Average body weights taken by 
ages were down 10 percent as compared to the early summer figures. 

Commencing in the late fall of 1945, the internees were gradually 
released and permitted to settle in their home areas. The homes of 
90 percent of them had been destroyed during the invasion, and many 
of their fields had been ruined or were reserved for military installa- 
tions. Part of the tremendous task of resettling involved aiding them 
in building new homes, reclaiming and releasing arable land, and 
feeding and clothing them until they could become self-sufficient. 

The problems of Military Government were somewhat less difficult 
on the less war-torn islands. In 1947, however, the total Ryukyu 
acreage planned for cultivation was only about 60 percent of the pre- 
war figure. This reflects the over-all dislocation of Ryukyu economy, 
and explains why even in the first half of 1947, one-third of the food 
consumed in even the most basic rations had to be imported from the 
United States. These imports are being gradually reduced, pending 
the time when the Ryukyus will be self-sufficient in food supply. 

While this reconstruction of Ryukyu economy was going on, over 
200,000 Rynkyuans from all over the Pacific were brought back to 
their homeland. This repatriation began in early 1946 and was vir- 
tually completed that year. This brought the June 29, 1947, popula- 
tion to 44,000 more than the early 1944 figure, so that the RyulDj^us are 
now as overcrowded as they ever were. The current hope for render- 
ing the Ryukyus self-sustained in food supply is the work of mechan- 
ized land-reclamation teams, cooperating with the farmer's associa- 
tions. If all the arable land is utilized (see p. 386), it may be suffi- 
cient to support the present population. Rehabilitation of the fishing 



RYUKYU PEOPLE — NEWMAN AND ENG 



403 




404 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947 

industry should also aid in providing food. In this connection, sal- 
vaged United States landing craft have been turned over to Ryukyu 
fishermen. 

Efforts are also being made to rebuild other Ryukyu industries, and 
apparently the results have been satisfactory where raw materials 
and in some cases salvaged equipment are obtainable. The Military 
Government rehabilitation program envisages trebling the stone quar- 
rying and woodworking production to meet high current needs ; build- 
ing up the cement, Panama-hat, and lacquerware industries for export ; 
eventually developing silk production to meet the local demand ; and 
bringing back the ceramic, brick, dyeing, sulfur, and coal output to 
prewar levels. The household crafts, such as mat making and linen 
weaving, went back into production with less difficulty than other 
industries. 

As early as September 1945 temporary elementary schools were or- 
ganized. By early 1947, enrollment was as high as in 1937. High 
schools and technical schools were being organized, and present labor 
laws require school attendance until 18 years of age (Japanese) . School 
texts have been mimeographed and distributed. Certainly the curric- 
ula of present-day schools represent a decided change from prewar 
days. In addition to educating the youth, special adult classes have 
received practical instruction. Motor maintenance and repair, use of 
heavy equipment, and preparation of unfamiliar imported foodtstuffs 
are examples of this training program. 

Recently malaria, influenza, and trachoma have been the most preva- 
lent communicable diseases. Before the war, malaria was endemic 
only in certain areas of the Ryukyus, but the thorough shuffling of the 
native population during and after the invasion has rendered the dis- 
ease an island- wide problem. Mass immunizations for smallpox, dys- 
entery, and diphtheria (see pi. 5, lower) have been carried out by 
Military Government authorities. The prevalence of intestinal para- 
sites and filariasis in the native population needs the attention of a co- 
ordinated program, but will require sanitary measures to which the 
Ryukyuans are unaccustomed. 

In early 1947, 25 Christian churches were holding services in the 
Ryukyus, with about 200 more members than in 1937. (See p. 396.) 
Attendance doubled by the end of that year. It will be interesting to 
see whether or not a Christian philosophy can be successfully grafted 
to the Ryukyu culture pattern. 

The rehabilitation of the Ryukyu people is proceeding apace under 
American administration. The immediate goal is to make them econ- 
omically self-sufficient. The ultimate problem is how to best facili- 
tate the adjustment of a simple agricultural people to the modern 
industrial world. 



RYUKYU PEOPLE — NEWMAN AND ENG 405 

LITERATURE CITED 

CuLBERT, R. W., and Lewis, Leon. 

1945. Nutritional study— Oljinawa (a preliminary report). November 4. 
(Manuscript.) 
Eng, Ransom L. 

1945. Okinawan opinion study (a preliminary survey). April 30. (Manu- 
script.) 
Leavenworth, Charles S. 

1905. The Loochoo Islands. 186 pp. Shanghai. 
Moloney, James C. 

1945. Psychiatric observations on Okinawa Shima. Psychiatry, vol. 8, No. 

4, pp. 391-399. 
Murdoch, George P. 

1934. Our Primitive Contemporaries. Macmillan Co., N. Y. 
Navy Department. 

1944. Civil Affairs Handbook, Ryukyu (Loochoo) Islands. OPNAV 13-21, 
345 pp. 
Newman, Marshall T., and Eng, Ransom L. 

1947. The Ryukyu people: A biological appraisal. Amer. Journ. Phys. 
Anthrop., n. s., vol. 5, No. 2, pp. 113-157. 
Steiner, Paul E. 

1946. Necropsies on Okinawans. Reprinted with additions from Arch. 

Pathol., vol. 42, pp. 359-380, by Amer. Med. Assoc, pp. 1-23. 

1947. Okinawa and its people. Sci. Month., vol. 64, No. 3, pp. 233-241 ; No. 4, 

pp. 306-312. 
Yale University. 

No date. Cross-Cultural Survey — the Ryukyu Islands. (Unpublished.) 

Note : A full bibliography on the cultural anthropology of the Ryukyus is listed 
in the Navy Department's Civil Affairs Handbook. References on the physical 
anthropology are covered in Newman and Eng, 1947. 

Official documents dealing with the American occupation of the islands are : 
Army Military Government Summations of the United States Army Military 

Government Activities in the Ryukyu Islands, July 1946 to current. 
Navy Militax-y Government, Ryukyu Islands, 1 July 1946. Report of Military 

Government activities from 1 April 1945 to 1 July 1946. 
War Department, Public Information Division, Press Section releases. 



Smithsonian Report. 1947. Newman and Eng 



Plate l 




1. Aerial view of the lii-li;i iiiver aurl adjacent couiitry.><ifie in west-central 
Okinawa. The first invasion waves of landing craft are in the background. 
(Official U. S. Navy photograph.) 



.,m^^ - -^ ^^ J ^--j^jc i'^rc-'^.f^.k'p^' ^^^:^ 




2. Aerial view of an Okinawan village. Many of the houses have been bombed 
or fired. (Official U. S. Navy photograph.) 



Smithsonian Report, 1947. — Newman and Eng 



Plate 2 




1. Okinavvan women and children who just, arrived at an M. G. civilian camp in 
the earlv davs of the invasion. (Official U. S. Navy Photograph.) 




2. One of the first M. G. civilian camps set up on Okinawa. (Official U. S. Navy 

photograph.) • 



Smithsonian Report, 1947. — Newman and Eng 



Plate 3 





Upper, native village on Ishigaki-Jiina in tlie South Ryukyus; center, native 
sailing craft in the Iriomote Jima group; lower, concrete tomb from Okinawa. 
(Photographs courtesy J. Allen Chase, Leon Lewis, and A. C. P. liakos.) 



Smithsonian Report, 1947. — Newman and Eng 




Upper, home of a Shinto priest at Kin, Ulvinawa lower, temporary home of a 
refugee at Gimbaru, Okinawa. (Photographs courtesy J. Allen Chase and 
Leon Lewis.) 



Smithsonian Report, 1947. — Newman and Eng 



Plate 5 




Lpi)er. a sroup of lepers in the ccI.m, , ,1 \ :m:iji Shiina, ofV norllnvesL Okinawa- 
knyor, school chjldron of ivanna, Okuiawa, being inimunizcd for (Ivsonterv' 
(Photographs cotirtesv J. Allen Chase and Leon Lewis ) 



PUZZLE IN PANAMA^ 



By Waldo G. Bowman 
Editor, Engmeering News-Record 



[With 8 plates] 

A good many tilings came to an end when the atomic bombs exploded 
over Hiroshima and Nagasaki. And not the least of those things that 
were lost forever was our confidence in the security of the Panama 
Canal. 

That fact is now being reflected in a comprehensive engineering 
study to determine whether the present Canal or any canal in the 
same or any other location can be made safe for our merchant and 
naval fleets in wartime. And, of equal concern, if not of the same 
grimness in consequences, is the problem of the adequacy of the Canal 
to meet the growing demands of peacetime shipping. It all adds up to 
a puzzle of first-order magnitude. 

Nor is the puzzle simplified (although the scope for its solution 
is undoubtedly broadened) by the fact that the atomic bombs not only 
blasted confidence in the present Canal, but also raised up a ghost — 
that of a Panama sea-level canal whose earthly body was interred on 
June 29, 1906, when Congress adopted the lock-type canal favored in 
the minority report of President Theodore Roosevelt's board of con- 
sulting engineers. And to this sea-level canal ghost the present in- 
vestigators may well repeat Hamlet's famous questions to the ghost 
of his father, "Be thou a spirit of health, or goblin damned? Say, 
why is this? Wherefore? What should we do?" Sea level or not, 
and if not, then what ? That is the question, and the present puzzle in 
Panama. 

Because a proper solution is of vital importance to every American, 
and of major interest to all engineers and construction men, a first- 
hand account of the progress of the studies was deemed timely and 
desirable. Wliat the conclusions and recommendations will be is not 
now known, indeed will not be Imown until they are reported to Con- 
gress late this year ( 1947) . But after 2 weeks in the Canal Zone talk- 
ing to officials, witnessing tests, traveling the canal, clambering over 

> Reprinted by permiesion from Engineering News-Record, vol. 138, No. 18, May 1, 1947. 

407 



408 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 194 7 

its famous once-sliding banks, inspecting its locks and dams, and listen- 
ing to scuttlebutt and rumor, a reasonably complete account of "Isth- 
mian Canal Studies — 1947" can be rendered. This is it. 

OBJECTIVE AND PLAN OF THEIR STUDIES 

The studies had their beginning on December 28, 1945, when Public 
Law 280, Seventy-ninth Congress, first session, was passed. In it 
Congress said to the Governor of the Panama Canal, "Tell us how we 
and the American people can best be assured of a ship crossing of the 
isthmus that will be safe from war hazards and of ample capacity for 
many years to come. Give us a recommendation for the best type of 
canal and the best route, no matter where located, in Panama or out." 
Included in the studies, of course, was to be a revaluation of the $277,- 
000,000 project to build a third set of locks, larger and removed some 
distance from the present pair, begun in 1939 (Engineering News 
Record, September 14, 1939, p. 330) and suspended because of the war 
in 1942 after most of the necessary excavation had been completed. 

Maj. Gen. Joseph C. Mehaffey, Governor of the Canal Zone, and him- 
self an Army Engineer officer with a long record of service on the 
Canal, lost no time in initiating the authorized study, for which about 
$5,000,000 has been provided. Assigning the task to the Canal's 
special engineering division, which was created to handle the third 
locks project, he appointed Col. James H. Stratton as supervising engi- 
neer. Enjoying an outstanding reputation as one of the ablest tech- 
nical men and administrators in the Corps of Engineers, Colonel 
Stratton was soon successful in assembling an unusually capable staff 
of civilian engineer specialists to head up the various phases of the 
work. Supplementing his own organization with a board of eminent 
consulting engineers to afford continual guidance and advice, he went 
to work. And as need developed, individual specialists from private 
life and from the Office of the Chief of Engineers were called in while, 
in addition, special research contracts were awarded so as to bring the 
nation's best talents to bear on the problem. 

The procedure of the studies is simple and effective. Investigations 
of each particular subject — routes, lock design, dredging, drilling and 
blasting, soil mechanics, flood control, hydraulics, construction plan- 
ning, to name a few — are carried out by the staff specialists through 
their own research and analysis and aided by the outside research con- 
tracts. As the study of each phase or subject is completed, a report 
or memorandum is prepared. Then, at the periodic meetings of the 
consulting board, the section heads present the memos (No. 183 hav- 
ing been reached on March 1, 1947) , which are approved, turned down, 
or returned for further study. 

The eventual result of this whittling and sifting will be a set of 
conclusions from which a final recommendation can be made to the 



PUZZLE IN PANAMA — BOWMAN 



409 



Governor by Colonel Stratton and the board. If the Governor accepts 
it, as is probable since he keeps in close touch with the work even to 
taking part in the consulting board meetings, the recommendation 
will be presented to the War and Navy Departments for review, and 
will then go to Congress. What happens after that in the way of 
actual design and construction is up to the law makers, the President, 
and the American people. 




Figure 1. — The Panama Canal and three of the alternate routes in its vicinity 
whose engineering feasibility and relative cost and security are under investi- 
gation. 



Considering the study procedure and the topnotch technical talents 
of the men engaged on the work, and observing their earnestness of 
purpose and high sense of responsibility, one cannot but feel that the 
recommendation will be honestly arrived at, technically sound, and 
unaffected by frivolous whims or superficial reasoning. There almost 
surely will be those who will disagree with the recommendation, but 
none except the carelessly biased or the unscrupulous who would ques- 
tion its integrity. 



410 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947 

Since Congress ordered examination of ail possible routes, the ob- 
vious line of attack was to study each possibility in turn to the point 
where it eliminated itself from consideration because of lack of water 
for lockages, too great length, poor terminals, excessive excavation, 
lack of security, and other applicable reasons. If followed thoroughly 
and fairly, this procedure should leave for final consideration the best 
type canal on the best route. To achieve a degree of comparison among 
all routes a hypothetical canal was initially assumed in each case, with 
a bottom width of 500 feet and with side slopes of 1 : 1. 



GULF 
OF 
TEHU&NTEPSC 




Figure 2. — Engineering and construction studies initially encompassed 22 isthmian 
routes from Mexico to Colombia. Those named plus two others— the Panama 
Parallel and Panama Conversion Routes near the present canal — warranted 
the most study. 

A total of 22 routes was examined, as shown on the map, figure 2. 
Including practically all of the routes that have been proposed or 
studied over the past century or more, the list contained some that were 
readily dropped from consideration as patently impractical, others 
that required more detailed study, and a few upon which special field 
work was deemed necessary. Indicative of routes easily eliminated was 
Tehuantepec in Mexico, which has the advantage of being nearest 
the United States, but would require 6l^ billion yards of excavation 
for a sea-level canal and 15 lifts of about 39 feet each for a lock canal. 
Another even more easily eliminated was Chiriqui in Panama near 
the Costa Rican border where an even greater yardage would have 



PUZZLE IN PANAMA — BOWMAN 411 

to be removed to create a sea-level canal and where there is no water 
at high elevation to supply a lock canal. 

MOST STUDY GIVEN 4 OF 22 ROUTES 

Elimination of the patently impractical routes left four, outside the 
immediate area of the existing canal, for further study — San Bias 
(named for an area and an Indian Tribe) and Caledonia Bay, for either 
a sea-level or a lock canal; Atrato-Truando (named for the two rivers 
that it follows) for a sea-level canal; and Nicaragua (with Pacific 
terminus at Brito) for a lock canal. Except for Nicaragua, the avail- 
able field data were less than desirable to permit a satisfactory an- 
alysis. Field surveys were, therefore, undertaken, using both ground 
and aerial mapping procedures. Such ultramodern aids as two-way 
radio communication between ground and air, radar profiling from the 
planes, mapping cameras that take pictures at 1-second intervals, and 
special ground altimeters provided much better data than were avail- 
able before, so that the decisions that will be made as to these routes 
should be correspondingly better. 

Whether San Bias, Caledonia Bay, or Atrato-Truando will be 
shown to have potentialities comparable to Nicaragua, whose merits 
have long been recognized, remains to be seen. However, a sea-level 
canal at Nicaragua is probably ruled out because the necessary drain- 
ing of Lake Nicaragua would deprive the country of an important 
body of water and probably alter its climate. The lock canal, favor- 
ably reported on in 1931 by the late Gen. Daniel Sultan, is still one 
of the best possibilities if a supplementary canal at another location 
than Panama is deemed necessary. Its cost now could easily be twice 
the $722,000,000 estimated by General Sultan, and its safety from 
modern weapons of destruction would be no greater than that of the 
present canal, but such disadvantages are relative, and might, in a 
comparison with other routes, be worth accepting. 

IMPROVING THE PRESENT CANAL 

Obviously, any new route for a canal must be far superior to the 
present one to warrant serious consideration, unless, of course, we are 
to have two canals, a possibility that cannot be ruled out and one which 
it is understood has been considered in connection with some proposed 
routes near the present canal. These w411 be described later in this 
article, but first the proposals for improving the present canal need 
to be considered. 

The existing Panama Canal has manj advantages. It has operated 
successfully for over 30 years. Its length is comparatively short. Its 
total lock lift of 85 feet is moderate. It has ample water supply. Its 
terminals are established communities with efficient harbor and port 
facilities. It represents one of our proudest national possessions, and 



412 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 194 7 

is among one of our largest capital assets. What then does it lack? 

First, its present capacity is estimated to be inadequate for com- 
mercial shipping after 1964, and its locks are not wide enough for 
modern and future naval vessels. (It was to overcome these dis- 
advantages that the Third Locks Project was initiated, providing 
lock chambers 140 feet wide as compared with the present 110 feet.) 
Second, it may not be safe against modern bombing. These were the 
items — capacity and security — on which Congress asked to be assured. 

Insofar as capacity is concerned it is certain that the lockage load 
of the present canal can be increased. The Third Locks Project would 
do it. Replacement of the existing locks with new ones of larger 
dimensions and increased efficiency would also do it. Even the in- 
stallation of a type of gate that could be removed for maintenance 
and repair (while a temporary gate replaced it) would greatly in- 
crease capacity by reducing the present overhaul time that keeps one 
lane of the existing locks out of service 4 months every 2 years. 

The present investigators, however, are believed to favor a fourth 
way as best meeting the needs of increased capacity and security for 
the present lock canal. This is by means of the so-called Pacific termi- 
nal lake plan in which all lock lifts on the Pacific side would be 
concentrated in the vicinity of Miraflores ; in effect this would elimi- 
nate the single-life lock at Pedro Miguel, and raise Miraflores to 
elevation 85 feet so that it would become an integral part of Gatun 
Lake, connected to it by Gaillard cut. 

To understand this plan, as well as ones proposed to convert the 
lock canal to one of the sea-level type, it is necessary to have the lay-out 
of the present 45-mile long canal clearly in mind. Briefly, it consists 
of a large artificial lake, called Gatun Lake, at elevation 85 feet above 
sea level, reached by three lock lifts on both the Atlantic and Pacific 
sides. Ships entering from the Atlantic side, for example, are raised 
in the Gatun locks whose three lifting chambers, each 110 feet wide 
and 1,000 feet long, are continuous and in the same structure. They 
then traverse the lake for some 20 miles in a winding channel 500 to 
i,000 feet wide that follows the former valley of the Chagres River 
whose waters have been impounded to form the lake. 

Leaving the lake, ships enter Gaillard cut, 300 feet wide at the bot- 
tom and 7 miles long, emerging to enter a single-lift lock at Pedro 
Miguel, which drops them 30 feet to Miraflores Lake at elevation 55 
feet above sea level. Miraflores Lake is about a mile long, closed 
at its southern end by Miraflores locks, a two-lift structure in which 
the ships are lowered to the level of the Pacific Ocean, which is 7 miles 
farther on. It will be recalled that the single-lock lift at Pedro Miguel 
was separated from the twin lifts at Miraflores (instead of putting all 
three together as at Gatun) because of poor foundations at the north 
end of the Miraflores site. Some of the early canal engineers did not 



PUZZLE IN PANAMA — BOWMAN 



413 



lis.? 1^ 



% 




414 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947 

agree that the conditions were as "poor" as represented, and many 
concur in that view today. 

IMPROVING THE LOCK LAY-OUT 

The Pacific terminal lake plan referred to above, advocated by sev- 
eral engineers at the time the present canal was being planned, and 
before that by one of the early French engineers, would increase the 
capacity of the canal by putting Miraflores Lake between the last lock 
lift and the entrance to Gaillard cut, thus providing an anchorage 
area for Atlantic-bound ships above the locks in case the cut were too 
foggy to navigate. Now ships have to wait below Pedro Miguel lock 
or out at sea until the cut is clear. 

The theory is that in bad weather a good many ships could accomplish 
the slow process of locking-through whereas now the locks are idle if 
the cut is shrouded in fog. In any such improvement scheme, of course, 
the new locks could be built of increased size and efficiency (some of 
as much as 200 feet width, 1,500 feet length, and of two-lift design, 
having been studied) , which would further augment the canal capacity. 
Also, most of the schemes studied have contemplated raising the level 
of Gatun Lake from elevation 85 to elevation 92 to increase the supply 
of lockage water. 

As to increased security, the supposition apparently is that a con- 
centration of all lock lifts in one place would also permit more effective 
concentration of protective facilities and defensive measures. Addi' 
tional security could also be achieved by separating the two lanes of 
any new locks safe distances from one another. 

CONVERSION OF CANAL TO SEA LEVEL 

But is any type of lock canal secure in the sense that Congress used 
the term in the request for the study? The decision of the investi- 
gators on that point is vital. One has only to recall the movies of the 
Bikini atomic bomb tests, where a column of water that looked to be 
half a mile across was thrown several thousand feet in the air, to visu- 
alize what would happen to a lock. Or look at the hole in the ground 
caused by the explosion of a hundred pounds of dynamite and inter- 
polate to the equivalent effect of millions of pounds of TNT. And 
once a hole were breached in a lock or one of the impoimding dams, 
the lake would drain out, and no amount of repairs could restore the 
canal to service until rainfall and run-off refilled the lake. It is a 
sobering thought, and one that cannot be ignored under the mandate 
that Congress wrote into Public Law 280. 

One way to eliminate the danger is to eliminate the lake and the 
locks, to convert the canal to a sea-level waterway. And there is ample 
evidence that the investigators are studying the possibilities long and 







03 



^ 

w^ 




« ^.2 

« S 

aC O 3 

3 « O 

O ;^ - 

_.^ Ml 

G CO .^ 

.^ <^ c3 




'■^A'aB*, 




tH O ^ 



^•- o 



5 '^ 
3 



a3 t^ 



o 5 ^ 



Oj o3 3 



o aJ, 



■■<- _:-2 



^x^*^-. 



Smithsonian Report, 1947. Ho 





1. Test drilling and blasting at unprecedented depths of 135 feet below water 
surface are being carried out from a barge plant in the approach to the Third 
Locks Cut on the Atlantic side. 




2. Tide-control structures simulated in the half-mile-long hydraulic model of a 
sea-level canal built to the alignment of the existing canal. To the left is the 
tide lock. The man is standing over the navigable pass gate, and to his left is 
the water-control structure. During tests the model is covered with canvas, 
as at the right, to shield it fi-om ihe wind. 








5 i C 



coo 



g cs .^ 



— f^ __ 

5 I 



o3 



6^1 




o o 




CO f 

a 03 

2 G 






PUZZLE IN PANAMA — BOWMAN 



415 



carefully. For one thing, they have built a half-mile-long model of a 
sea-level canal to the alignment of the present lock canal to test the 
effect of tides on currents. They have set up criteria for improved 
alignment, and are having the Navy study the behavior of ships in 
canal models built to these criteria in the David W. Taylor testing 
basin at Carderock, Md. They have let design and study contracts in 
the United States for the development of dredges that can dig at un- 
precedented depths, as would be necesary in Gatun Lake. And they 
have recently tested tide-gate and navigation-pass lay-outs in their 
sea-level model in the Canal Zone. All these activities point to unusual 
concern with the possibility of converting the present lock canal to one 
of sea-level type. 




PACIFIC END 
OF CANAL 



FiGUEE 4. — Maps indicating location 
relative to present 



of Third Locks Project, begun in 1939, 
locks. ( See plate 4. ) 



Of the numerous ways by which the conversion could be effected, at 
least two are known to have been studied, one involving lowering Gatun 
Lake to sea level in stages, the other lowering it in one operation. 
They have been called the stage-lowering plan and the deep-dredging 
plan. 

TO SEA LEVEL BY STAGES 

The essential element of the plan for lowering Gatun Lake to sea 
level by stages is a temporary lock at each end to permit the passage 
of traffic at each lowering stage, first from elevation 85 to 50; second 
from elevation 50 to 20 ; and third from elevation 20 to sea level. The 
location for these temporary or conversion locks is ready-made in the 
cuts that were dug for the Third Locks Project, i/^ mile east of the 
existing Gatun locks at the Atlantic end and % mile west of Mira- 
flores locks at the Pacific end, although some wideninsr might be re- 



777488—48- 



-30 



416 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947 

quired if locks wider than the 140 feet originally planned were deemed 
necessary. Should the third locks idea be abandoned, this plan thus 
provides an effective way to save a large part of the investment already 
made in that project. 

Two variations of the conversion locks have been studied, one using 
a single-lane lock, the other a double lane. Since two lanes for traffic 
must be maintained during all lake-lowering stages, adoption of the 
single-lane conversion lock would require also that first one lane and 
then the other of the existing locks be modified to operate at the lower 
lake stages. This would entail a construction operation of consider- 
able magnitude and difficulty, since the center wall between the existing 
locks would have to be underpinned during the time that the upper 
chamber of one lane was being removed so that this lane could be 
available for traffic when the lake was lowered to elevation 50. Later, 
when the other lane was cut down from elevation 85 to elevation 20 to 
serve traffic at this lake level, the same ticklish operation would have 
to be repeated. As a corollary of the construction difficulties of this 
method there would be considerable risk, for a failure of the center 
wall might result in draining the lake. 

The two-lane conversion plan is both simpler and more certain, for it 
would permit complete abandonment of the existing locks during the 
lowering stages. The idea would be to make the conversion lock of 
one-lift design, capable of being used at all stages from elevation 50 to 
sea level. While the lock at the Atlantic end, for example, was being 
built in the third locks cut, seaward from the unexcavated plug that 
separates the cut from the lake, the deepening of the channel in the 
lake would be carried out. This would entail dredging to a maximum 
depth of about 85 feet (present water surface, elevation 85, minus 
future water surface, elevation 50, equals 35, plus a 50-foot channel 
equals 85 feet). Such a depth is well within the capabilities of con- 
temporary dredging equipment. 

Once the channel was deepened, the plug ahead of the conversion 
lock would be blown out, and the lake water surface rapidly lowered to 
elevation 50. Then, with the two-lane conversion lock in constant 
service, the channel could be deepened as the water surface was progres- 
sively lowered until the bottom of the excavation reached project grade 
of 50 feet below sea level (and increasing to 60 feet at the Pacific end 
because of the greater tide variation there) . 

At the Pacific end the conversion plan would be only slightly differ- 
ent. The single-lift conversion lock would be built in the third locks 
cut at Miraflores. When it went into service, as the Gatum Lake water 
level was dropped to elevation 50, Pedro Miguel lock, which operates 
between elevation 85 and elevation 50, would be high and dry. Since 
the third locks cut at this location was hardly more than begun before 
that project was shut down, a bypass around the existing lock would 



PUZZLE IN PANAMA — BOWMAN 417 

have to be provided. This, however, would be a part of the required 
channel deepening and not lost motion. 

Finally, with respect to any of the stage-lowering plans, there is one 
special requirement to be met that would involve extra cost and con- 
struction difficulty. This is the provision of salt-water pumping plants 
to make up a deficiency of water for lock operation after Gatum Lake 
is lowered to elevation 50. Estimates indicate that such plants might 
have to aggregate over 4,000 second-feet in capacity. 

DEEP-DREDGING PLAN 

All the expense and trouble of conversion locks could, however, be 
eliminated if dredges could dig as deep as 135 feet below the water 
surface, i. e, from elevation 85, existing lake level, to elevation — 50, 
the required sea-level chaimel depth. It is the great appeal of this 
plan, as to simplicity and to probable lessened cost, that has led the 
investigators to award the special dredge-development contracts. 
Should this plan prove feasible it would only be necessary to dredge 
channels in Gatun and Miraflores Lakes to elevation —50, and then 
knock out the protective plugs in the third locks cuts, draining the 
lake. There would be 8 to 10 days interruption to canal traffic while 
the plugs were being removed and the channels cleared of debris, but 
after that the sea-level canal would be a going concern. 

Simple in concept though it is, the deep-dredging plan raises some 
puzzling questions. One of these is basic : Can dredges be designed 
and built to dig at 135-foot depths, and fast enough to be practicable 
from a cost standpoint ? To find out, two contracts have been awarded, 
and to date the results are encouraging. 

One of the contracts, covering both the design of a hydraulic cutter 
head dredge and studies and estimates of a construction plan, is held 
by a combination named Panama Contractors and consisting of 
Gahagan Construction Co., Standard Dredging Co., and the Atlantic, 
Gulf and Pacific Co. Their contemplated dredge is said to have a 
46-inch suction and a 40-inch discharge, and to incorporate the unique 
feature of a booster pump set about 65-foot down on the 185-foot long 
boom. Lifting and swinging gear would be of unprecedented size, 
and large buoyancy tanks would help support the boom. The spuds 
on this huge machine would be 150 feet long, the lower 80 feet of which 
telescopes into the upper part as required for adjustment. 

The second deep-dredge contract covers design only of a bucket 
ladder dredge and is held by the Yuba Manufacturing Co., specialists 
in these types of dredges. Although ladder dredges with %-yard 
buckets have operated at 124-foot depths in California gold-mining 
work, nothing approaching the high capacity and 135-foot depth 
required for the Panama dredging has ever been built. Buckets as 
large as 6 cubic yards were investigated, but it is believed that the 



418 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947 

greatest efficiency, relating power input to excavation production, can 
probably be attained with 2-cubic-yard buckets. Designed so that six 
such buckets would always be in contact with the bottom, a ladder 
dredge, it is claimed, would provide an efficient means for digging at 
135-foot depths. 

Large dipper dredges, although impracticable for such deep work, 
can be used for slightly shallower digging, particularly in hard ma- 
terial, and the Bucyrus-Erie Co. holds a third design contract for such 
a machine capable of working at a 90-foot depth. With a 20-yard 
bucket for hard digging and a 30-yard size for softer material, the use 
of four 250-horsepower motors on the main hoist of such a dipper 
dredge, supplemented by a 165-ton counterweight, would provide 
speedy operation and large production. For all the proposed dredges 
there seems to be a preference for self-contained Diesel-electric power 
units rather than relying on an outside energy source. The cost of any 
one of the dredges, it is rumored, might run as high as $5,000,000. 

Another important consideration in the deep- dredging plan relates 
to drilling and blasting procedures under such great depths of water. 
Such work has never been done before, and powder-company estimates 
of the amount of explosives required are quite variable — from 2 to 4 
pounds per cubic yard of rock removed as compared to conventional 
charges of l^ to 1 pound. Tests now under way in the Atlantic 
approach to the third locks cut, however, prove that the Gatun sand- 
stone, a relatively soft rock, can be broken to sizes for handling by any 
of the contemplated dredges with only slightly over 1 pound. Similar 
deep-drilling and blasting tests are planned in the hard basalt rock 
that prevails on the Pacific side. 

Powder costs could, however, be doubled or tripled without any im- 
portant consequence. Getting the holes down is what will run into big 
money. The actual drilling at great depths adds no new difficulties, 
according to the present tests, so that the crux of the drilling question 
will be speed and how to attain it ; whether by exceptionally long drill 
steel or by the development of techniques to coimect more conventional 
lengths rapidly; whether by a few supersize drill boats or by large 
numbers of smaller ones; and whether by rotary or percussion-type 
drills. 

TIDE CONTROL 

Any sea-level canal, no matter how or where built, will require a 
number of auxiliary structures and special construction operations. 
Thus, structures that will exclude unwanted currents, as from tides 
or from entering rivers, are of prime importance; while the necessary 
canal alignment to assure ease of navigation and the required side 
slopes to obviate slides will affect dry as well as wet excavation 
practices. 



PUZZLE IN PANAMA — BOWMAN 419 

A great deal of design effort and model study has been expended 
on the subject of tide control, since the large difference in tide ranges — 
20 feet maximum on the Pacific side and only 2 feet on the Atlantic — 
would be expected to generate a considerable current. Actually the 
maximum velocity has been shown on the sea-level model to be only 
4.2 knots, and interestingly enough this occurs at the Atlantic end and 
farthest removed from the high Pacific tides that create it. Never- 
theless, this is considered excessive for ordinary merchant-ship opera- 
tion in a canal much of whose bottom and banks would be rock, as con- 
trasted with the sand in the Cape Cod Canal where such a velocity 
occurs, and means are being sought to reduce it. 

One method, and the one proposed in the majority report on the 
original canal in 1904, is to use a barrier dam and locks. But since 
it would take time to lock every ship entering or leaving the canal, 
even though the average lift would be only about 6 feet and the maxi- 
mum 10 feet, the present investigators have been studying a "navigable 
pass" arrangement similar to those used on the Ohio River by which 
ships could pass between canal and ocean at certain tide stages without 
using the locks. Not only would this speed canal operation, but the 
navigation-pass lay-out would provide maximum security from bomb- 
ing since, if hit, the closure dam could be quickly dragged out of the 
way. Then the canal could be used without tidal regulation, which is 
deemed practicable in an emergency. 

An opening could of course be cleared through a barrier dam and 
lock, if they should be bombed, but it would be a time-consuming 
operation. Moreover, it is believed to be the present thinking of the 
investigators that use of the navigable pass would so familiarize the 
pilots with open-water operation of the canal that they would be 
ready for any emergency, whereas the lock-and-dam plan would not 
permit this advance training. 

ELEMENTS OF NAVIGABLE-PASS PLAN 

The proposed navigation-pass lay-out would include three ele- 
ments — the pass equipped with a movable dam, a set of locks, and a 
gated water-control structure. Just how these would be arranged 
would depend upon the location chosen for the tidal-control works. 
One of the arrangements tested on the sea-level model places the tide 
lock, equipped with sector-type gates, in the third locks cut at Mira- 
flores ; the navigation pass, with a 750-f oot-wide opening, in the ap- 
proach to the present canal; and the water-control structure, of 
whatever width necessary, beside it. An interesting aspect of this 
arrangement is that the tidal lock could temporarily be increased in 
height and used as the conversion lock should the stage-lowering plan 
of canal conversion be adopted. 



420 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947 

From the lay-out on the sea-level model it is apparent that the 
designers are thinking of a retractable-type dam across the navigation 
pass. And, since the dam must be capable of withstanding a 10-foot 
hydrostatic head on either side, a triangular cross section steel box 
has been chosen. Mounted on rollers, the prototype dam would be 
80-foot high, extending 60 foot below and 20 foot above the sea bot- 
tom. One contemplated way of operation is by hydraulic pressure, 
introducing water into the retracting chambers to close the dam and 
evacuating the water to open it. 

The water-control structure involves a normal tainter gate set-up, 
its purpose being to bring the pool elevation inside the navigation 
pass to the tide elevation outside as early in the tide cycle as possible 
so that the navigation dam can be open the maximum length of time. 
Under the tentative criterion of a maximum permissible current of 
1.8 knots (3 miles per hour) the tests indicate that the navigation 







Constru 
bypass cf>annel 




Sector gale recess 



Reiroctoble gale recess 



Figure 5. — One of the tide-control schemes studied locates the necessary structures 
in the vicinity of the present Miraflores Locks. A tide lock is placed in the exist- 
ing Third Locks Cut, a navigable pass, with retractable-type gates, in the present 
canal, and a tainter-gate water-control structure in an adjacent bypass channel. 

pass can be used on an average of one-third of the time, or from 1^ 
to 33^ hours out of each 6-hour tide change depending upon the time 
of year. 

How the tidal variations in the model are produced is of interest. 
The model itself, built to a geometric scale of 1 :100, is a half-mile- 
long slab of 4-inch concrete laid to the alignment of the present lock 
canal and supporting concrete curbs to simulate the canal slopes and 
define the channel. At each end are basins representing Balboa and 
Cristobal Harbors, and to these a constant amount of water is sup- 
plied. Then, by wasting varying quantities of this water through an 
electrically operated gate, the desired tide elevations in the harbors 
are obtained. 

The waste gate is controlled by a special tide apparatus, chief ele- 
ment of which is a cam whose shape was scribed by a polar plot of 
the tide elevations at each hour of the cycle. Connected to a time 
mechanism this cam keeps the waste gate as far open or closed as 



PUZZLE IN PANAMA — BOWMAN 



421 



the tide at a particular time in the cycle requires. Water levels in 
the canal during the tests are measured by automatic recorders, and 
velocities by pygmy current meters or by time-exposure pictures of 
floating confetti. 

FLOOD CONTROL 

One of the requirements of a sea-level canal will be complete ex- 
clusion of entering streams. It would be expected that flood flows 
would have to be kept out, but recent tests indicate that even smaller 
flows, which could otherwise be carried by the canal, create objection- 
able currents. Salt and fresh water do not mix quietly. 



.Observed natural 
tide at Balboa 




6.2 12.4 

Time in Hours 
FiGiTBE 6. — How tide-control structures would be operated at various stages of 
tide cycle. Between B and C How would be out of canal through water-control 
gates, and between E and F the tlow would be into the canal. During these 
periods ships could use the pass. 

Were the Panama Canal to be converted to sea level, such im- 
portant rivers as the Chagres and the Gatun from the east and the 
Trinidad and Cano Quebrado from the west would have to be blocked 
and the water carried to the sea through diversion channels. A dam 
would no doubt h^ required at Gamboa on the Chagres to impound 
the excess run-off of that stream, which is not now held by the existing 
Madden Dam farther upstream. But it would probably not have to 
be as high (in view of the supplementary effect of Madden) as the 
one proposed for the same location in some of the original canal plans 
and which then caused so much discussion with respect to foundations 



422 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 194 7 

and type of structure. Moreover, our present knowledge of dam 
building generally and of foundation conditions at the site is far 
advanced over that of 40 years ago. 

IMPROVED CHANNEL ALIGNMENT 

One of the necessities for a safe canal of ample capacity is an align- 
ment that permits easy handling and maneuvering of ships, and the 
present canal is far below a reasonable standard in this respect. The 
investigators have, therefore, devoted much attention to this subject, 
since it is appropriate to any canal route that is to be chosen. 

As a target to shoot at and test, rather severe criteria were set up. 
These include a 500- foot-wide channel bottom, a 50-foot depth, curves 
of 20 degrees maximum deflection angle (some of the present ones 
are near twice that) , sight distances on curves of not less than a mile, 
and 5-mile tangents between curves. These dimensions and others, 
both more severe and more conservative, are being tested in the Navy 
model basin at Carderock, Md., where the handling of model ships 
under various current conditions will also be studied. When conclu- 
sions are reached, the outdoor sea-level model in the Canal Zone will 
be rebuilt to the new criteria as a further check on performance. Since 
all studies are based on providing ample canal capacity up to the year 
2,000 such modern and future navigation aids as infrared lights, fog- 
dispersal equipment, and radar and electronic devices are not being 
overlooked. 

Whatever the alignment and dimensions chosen, they will materially 
affect the cost and construction methods of a canal, lock or sea level, 
since a greater or lesser bottom width or degree of curvature brings 
different geological formations into the picture with their differing 
side slopes that are safe from sliding. 

GEOLOGY POSES MANY PROBLEMS 

The area traversed by the present canal is noted for its upside-down 
geology, hard rock occurring regularly on top of soft material. It 
was the weight of this cap rock that initiated much of the disastrous 
bank sliding in the early days of the present canal, and great care 
is being taken to avoid any return engagements on future construc- 
tion. Evidence of the seriousness of this situation is contained in the 
figures of the amount of slide material removed from the present ca- 
nal : 23 million yards before water was turned in in 1913, and about 
50 million yards in the following 10 years. 

Every opportunity is, therefore, being used to gain new knowledge 
through tests and study of past experience. Many data were col- 
lected during the third locks design and construction, and continued 
maintenance of the canal banks for over 30 years has produced many 
more. 



PUZZLE IN PANAMA — BOWMAN 



423 



Not being blessed with these data nor with our present knowledge 
of soil mechanics and engineering geology, the designers of the present 
canal, whose decisions on so many vital matters have stood the test 
of time, used bank slopes of 3 horizontal to 2 vertical for all materials. 
For any new canal, slopes will be varied, and there seems to be com- 
plete confidence among the investigators that both safe slopes and 




1 


Gofun 
Fpffnfljsn 

Miocene 


Lo Boco 


SEDIMENTARY - 

Pedro Cucofocha Enipeiadof 
Migiiel Formclion Limes'ofie 
Agglomerate 


\2A 

Culeb; 
Formoli 


Ccimilo 
« Fofmotion 




' ' 1 


Bosoit 

1 


IGNEOUS 

ill 


Rhyol.te 


COTlOCt 




■11 

Poai< 


Boh. 
Formal 

1 


Boieoen 
m C«mple« 

-4 , 1 

Eoc«ne 
„Cre»§ceous 


^ 


1 

Pieisrocene 
Reccfrt 




1 

0\<Zozer.e 








1 

OIigt>cone and M 


-- 





FiGxiBE 7. — Geological sections across the Isthmus of Panama at the Canal Zone 
indicating the types of formations to be excavated to convert present canal to 
sea level. 

bearings pressures can be set, and that correct construction procedures 
can be outlined, certainly for any canal in the vicinity of the present 
one. 

For one thing they have determined that the Cucaracha clay, the 
famous slide material, will stand on relatively steep slopes (1 vertical 
to 3 horizontal) when it occurs alone, which is about the same as for 
the similar but harder Culebra formation, but that if overlaid by such 
hard and heavy rock as agglomerate or basalt the Cucaracha slopes 



424 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947 

must be quite flat, 1 : 5 or more. For safety and eventual economy, 
much of the overlying hard rock would have to be removed. 

The third locks cuts indicate that Gatun sandstone will stand on a 
6 vertical to 1 horizontal slope, and that 12 : 1 is safe for agglomerate 
and basalt : for the latter, berm widths and spacing criteria have also 
been established. Extensive loading tests have demonstrated that 
Cucaracha will safely carry 6 tons per square foot, while the harder 
Culebra, upon which the Pedro Miguel locks are founded, will carry 15 
tons. It is facts such as these that give the investigators confidence 
in designs and construction methods being assumed for the purpose 
of their estimates. 

As to devising actual construction methods, the present studies 
are going only so far as is necessary to prepare the cost estimates for 
construction periods of either 10 or 15 years. It is, nevertheless, un- 
derstood that one of the most promising possibilities for moving the 
huge quantities of dry excavation involved has been shown by the stud- 
ies to be a combination of batteries of 30-yard shovels and barge dis- 
posal. Some recasting of material by draglines would be necessary 
to reach the barges, or this could be largely eliminated by digging 
auxiliary channels into the banks through which the barges could be 
towed to within reach of the shovels. With a half billion yards of 
dry excavation to be handled large and expensive plant lay-outs are 
obviously justified. 

TWO CANALS IN PLAGE OF ONE 

Earlier in this article mention was made of the possibility of a rec- 
ommendation that would provide for building a new sea-level canal 
while at the same time the present lock canal would be kept in service. 
San Bias, Caledonia Bay, and Atrato-Truando were among the possible 
locations, but there are also routes near the present canal, and particu- 
larly one known as the Panama Parallel Route, that have also been 
seriously studied. 

This Panama Parallel Route, whose alignment corresponds closely 
to that of the present canal except that it eliminates the big bends in 
the latter, is an original conception of the present investigators grow- 
ing out of their studies of several routes having a Pacific terminus in 
Chorrera Bay a short distance outside the west boundary of the Canal 
Zone. One of these routes crosses the isthmus to the small town of 
Lagarto and is entirely outside the Zone. It has the advantage of 
offering dry excavation for the major part of its length, but the yard- 
age would be formidable and the construction of new ports and har- 
bors at both ends would entail tremendous expense, with Lagarto being 
practically in the open sea. 



PUZZLE IN PANAMA — BOWMAN 425 

To eliminate the problems at Lagarto, two other Chorrera routes 
with Atlantic terminals near those of the present canal in Limon Bay 
were studied, followed by the next logical idea of shifting the Pacific 
terminus from Chorrera to the vicinity of Balboa on the present canal. 
Thus the Panama Parallel Route came into being. 

A common element of all these routes was a crossing of Gatun Lake 
that would be blocked off by barrier dams, which would also provide 
flood protection from the various lake-feeding streams. By digging 
the other sections of the canal first, the resulting spoil could be used to 
build the dams, after which the Gatun Lake sections could be exca- 
vated in the dry behind their protection. 

This idea has great appeal, its principal drawback being, of course, 
the tremendous dam-building job involved, since the total barrier dam 
length would exceed 14 miles. A conventional cross section of say 
100-foot top width would not be too serious, but if this were increased 
10, 20, or 30 times to provide security against modern weapons, grave 
doubts arise as to the advisability of the scheme. Nevertheless, once 
built, it would undoubtedly represent a reasonable solution of the 
problem that Congress set up. In the final analysis, also, it will have 
to compete with one of the Panama conversion plans on the basis of 
cost. 

THE SITUATION SUMMARIZED 

What then are the possibilities of solving this puzzle in Panama? 
Wliat considerations must be resolved to come up with a recommenda- 
tion for a canal that will best meet the requirements of security and 
ample capacity set up by Congress? Among the obvious ones are 
sound engineering, practicable construction, and minimum possible 
cost. To which must be added resistance to or possible protection 
from the destructive effects of present and future weapons of war. 
Adding up these considerations as they apply to each of the proposals 
and then comparing the results is the present task of the investigators. 
It is futile, and it would be improper, to anticipate or speculate upon 
their conclusion, but a few applicable facts will serve to summarize the 
situation as it now exists. 

There are four routes removed from the present canal and three in 
the vicinit}^ of it whose merits must be weighed. Of the former, three 
are sea-level routes whose yardages, estimated on a 1 : 1 bank slope 
assumption are as follows: Atrato-Truando, 1,590 million; San Bias, 
1,520 million; and Caledonia, 1,260 million. What these yardages 
would prove to be were sufficient knowledge available to use geological 
slopes in estimating them is problematical, but they would increase 
rather than diminish judging from the Panama Conversion Route; 
using 1 : 1 slopes, this plan required 688 million yards, which increased 
to 917 million when geological slopes were applied. 



426 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 194 7 

Any one of these sea-level routes thus might require up to 2,000 
million yards of excavation. It is also pertinent to note that they are 
in isolated locations without terminal ports or harbors, and that the 
construction problems to be met are uncertain, and difficult to appraise. 
On the credit side any one of them would provide a route supple- 
mentary to the present canal, not only far removed from it, but devoid 
of locks, so that requirements of both security and capacity could be 
satisfied. It would seem that cost and construction difficulties relative 
to the other routes — and perhaps political considerations — would be 
the determinants in deciding whether one of these three crossings would 
be recommended. 

The Nicaragua lock canal has many advantageous aspects. Topo- 
graphical and geological conditions of the route are well defined. 
Excavation would be less than for a sea-level canal. On the basis of 
the 1931 cost estimates, the present cost might be fixed in the neighbor- 
hood of 1% billion dollars. Political considerations are favorable 
since the Nicaraguan Government has offered complete cooperation. 
From the standpoint of dispersion, canals in Nicaragua and Panama 
would satisfy security to the degree that a lock canal can be considered 
secure ; or, stated in another way, to the degree that they increase the 
difficulty of an enemy to deprive us of a trans-isthmian crossing. This 
latter consideration is the one to be resolved in deciding for or against 
recommending the Nicaraguan route. 

The Chorerra routes in Panama offer the possibility of a sea-level 
canal with a minimum of wet excavation. Topographical and geo- 
logical conditions are reasonably well known, which may or may not 
be an advantage since they presage expensive harbor and port facilities 
and total excavation of over 1% billion cubic yards. A distinct dis- 
advantage is that their construction would require an enlargement of 
the Canal Zone and removal of one or both terminals from the vicinity 
of existing Panamanian cities. 

The Panama Parallel Eout-e would permit a sea-level canal to be built 
in the Zone without disturbing the present lock canal. By its construc- 
tion we would have two canals, although their proximity one to the 
other would raise the question of complete wartime safety. Construc- 
tion could be done in the dry, but the building of the barrier dams 
required to hold back Gatun Lake would be a task of gi-eat magnitude, 
while their breaching in case of attack might put both canals out of 
service. Relative cost and security from attack are the factors to be 
considered in choosing this interesting scheme. 

Converting the present canal to sea level will entail less total exca- 
vation than on any other sea-level route and probably no more than 
for a lock canal in Nicaragua. Terminal facilities are established and 
thus do not enter into the future costs. On the other hand, the neces- 



PUZZLE IN PANAMA — BOWMAN 427 

sity for dams and diversion channels to control jfloods in intersected 
streams and for temporary locks to maintain traffic through the canal 
during the construction period will add greatly to the expense. If deep 
dredging is feasible, construction difficulties and costs will be greatly 
lessened, but even if the alternative of building temporary conversion 
locks, as required for stage lowering of Gatun Lake, is necessary, no 
insurmountable troubles are involved. As a matter of fact, the cleep- 
clredging and stage-lowering plans are not mutually exclusive initially. 
It would be possible to start with either one and then shift to the other 
after the first 2 or 3 years of preliminary work, without appreciable 
loss of time or money. 

Finally a sea-level canal undoubtedly offers the greatest assurance 
of security and minimum interruption in wartime, since damage from 
bomb hits could be repaired by dredges in a matter of days as con- 
trasted with the many months that a lock canal would be out of service 
if its water supply should be lost. The sea-level canal also promises 
no real navigation hazards because of tidal currents. Cost is the 
principal question upon which a recommendation favoring conversion 
of the present canal to sea level is believed to rest. 

Insofar as improving the present lock canal is concerned the Pacific 
Terminal Lake Plan is the one to be weighed and compared. Building 
the new, enlarged two-lift locks recjuired, and dispersing them as much 
as necessary for safety, makes this by no means a low-cost solution. 
Here, too, relative cost and security will control the decision. 

In summary, the choice of the investigators must rest between sup- 
plementing the present canal with another removed a safe distance 
from it or converting the present canal to sea level. After that the 
choice shifts to Congress and the American people. If they want a 
safe canal badly enough to invest what it costs — 1 billion, 2 billion, 
perhaps 3 billion dollars — they can have it. If security comes too 
high, and they will settle for increased capacity, any one of the schemes 
mentioned earlier in this article for improving the present canal, in- 
cluding completion of the Third Locks Project, will suffice. Upon 
such a decision rests finally the solution to the puzzle in Panama — 
and incidentally the silencing or the resurrection of the ghost of a 
sea-level canal. 

CONSULTANTS ON THE WOEK 

In addition to the staff of the investigation, numerous consultants 
have been engaged on the work, as mentioned earlier in this article. 
Most important of these, of course, are the members of the consulting 
board, which consists of Rear Adm. John J. Manning (C. E, C. USN) 
Chief of the Bureau of Yards and Docks; Brig. Gen. Hans Kramer 
(C. E. Retired) ; Prof. Boris A. Bakhmeteff, Columbia University; 



428 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 194 7 

Joel D. Justin, consulting engineer, Philadelphia ; W. H. McAlpine, 
office of the Chief of Engineers, Washington : and H. M. Hill, North- 
ern States Power Co., Minneapolis. 

Harvey Slocum, well-known construction specialist, has advised 
upon construction plans and estimates, while such experts from the 
office of Chief of Engineers have been called in as Gail A. Hathaway 
on flood control, Carl Giroux and B. W. Steele on dams and hydro 
power, and Leon Zach on construction camps and permanent town 
planning. Soil mechanics and foundation guidance is being supplied 
by Profs. H. M. Westergaard, Arthur Casagrande, and L. Don Leet 
of Harvard University, and E. M. Fucik of Chicago. Prof. Koland 
Kramer of the University of Pennsylvania has made extensive studies 
and advised upon canal traffic growth. 



COMPARISON OF PROPELLEE AND REACTION- 
PROPELLED AIRPLANE PERFORMANCES ^ 



By Benson Hamlin 

Project Engineer 

and 

F. Spenceley 

Performance Group AeroAynamicist 

Bell Aircraft Corporation 



INTRODUCTION 

Coincident with the development ,of successful turbojet power plants 
for aii'craf t, a broad new field of propulsion has come to light. Power- 
plant research and development has progressed so rapidly that a wide 
choice of power plants is now available to the aircraft manufacturer, 
who as yet has had little opportunity to demonstrate the practical 
applications. The purpose of this paper is to evaluate the airplane- 
performance potentialities of four types of widely differing power 
plants and to indicate their trends and particular fields of application. 

Conventional power plants of the reciprocating, internal-combustion 
type, both direct and indirect air-cooled, have been extended to com- 
pounding with a gas-turbine wheel operated by the normal exhaust 
gases and delivering the power thus generated back into the crank- 
shaft. The independent gas turbine is also available for use in con- 
junction with the propeller, in which case approximately 80 percent 
of the energy in the gases is absorbed by the turbine to drive the 
propeller and the remainder is utilized in the form of reaction propul- 
sion. Air-stream engines include the turbojet, reso-jet (or intermit- 
tent duct), and the ram- jet (or athodyd), all of which are reaction 
motors depending upon atmospheric air supply. A third classifica- 
tion of available power plants consists of dry- or liquid-fuel types of 
rocket motors, which are distinguished principally by the fact that 
atmospheric oxygen is not used for combustion as in the case of pther 
power plants. 



^ Presented before a closed meeting of the Institute of the Aeronautical Sciences, Holly- 
wood, Calif., Aug. 15, 1945. Reprinted by permission from the Journal of the Aeronautical 
Sciences, vol. 13, No. 8, August 1946. 

429 



430 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947 

For this paper four power plants having distinctly different per- 
formance characteristics have been chosen : (1) a V-type, reciprocating, 
liquid-cooled engine employing water injection for emergency power ; 
(2) a turbojet engine having about 23 percent less sea-level static 
thrust than the former; (3) a hypothetical subsonic ram-jet; and (4) 
a bipropellant liquid-fuel rocket motor. For brevity, these power 
plants will be referred to as a propeller, turbojet, ram-jet, and rocket, 
respectively. 

Because these power plants differ so radically in performance char- 
acteristics, it is difficult to determine a sound basis for comparison. 
It has therefore been decided to design a single-engined, single-place 
fighter or pursuit type airplane employing each type of power plant 
and limiting the size to some reasonable weight, say less than 14,000 
pounds. It is felt that the results submitted, together with the analy- 
sis presented, offer sufficient justification for classifying these types of 
power plants in specialized categories in which they excel. Thus, if a 
particular type of engine shows outstanding merit in a high-altitude 
and high-speed performance fpr a fighter, similar reasoning may be 
Judiciously applied in considering other aircraft types. 

The text is divided into three parts. Part A compares the various 
types of engines independently of airplane characteristics insofar as 
possible. Part B briefly describes a logical and practical airplane 
design configuration for each power plant. In part C, the results of 
the airplane performance characteristics are presented from which 
c.omparisons and conclusions may be advanced. 

PART A— POWER-PLANT CHARACTERISTICS 

1. Reci'procating engine and propeller. — A typical high-perform- 
ance engine employing water injection is assumed, which delivers 2,000 
b. hp. for take-off, the power varying linearly with density to 1,700 
b. hp. at an engine critical altitude of 20,000 feet. Typical propulsive 
efficiencies have been used in converting power to available thrust in 
order to afford a direct comparison with the other types of power plants 
in which thrust is the fundamental consideration. Exhaust jet thrust 
has also been included. 

The gas turbine driving a propeller has not been considered because 
the differences when compared to the remaining three power plants 
are not radically different from those of the reciprocating engine. 
Specific engine weight and size are improved, but fuel consumption 
will be increased in comparison to reciprocating engines. Also, the 
propeller itself imposes a definite limitation on maximum speed. Both 
the gas turbine and compoimd engine may be considered to be alternate 
developments in relation to propeller-driven airplanes. 

2. Turhojet engine. — The turbojet engine selected is typical of the 
single-stage centrifugal blower type employed in a number of aircraft. 



AIRPLANE PERFORMANCES — HAMLIN AND SPENCELEY 431 

Performance characteristics represent those already attainable at the 
present state of development. 

3. Ram-jet engine. — Of the four power plants considered, the ram- 
jet represents the only hypothetical design under consideration, it being 
the only type of propulsion not actually known to exist as a flight 
article. As a basis for the theoretical engine performance, the analysis 
presented in reference 1 is used herein. This type of power plant will 
not operate at zero air speed, and consequently cannot take off. Aux- 
iliary take-off means are assumed to launch the airplane and accelerate 
to a flight speed of 350 miles per hour, at which time the ram-jet is 
started. Since no logical engine output rating exists in this case, a unit 
of a size suitable for 10,000-pound fighter is assiuned. 

Combustion temperatures of the order of 3,000° F. are assumed to be 
structurally possible since moving parts do not exist to complicate the 
problem. Successful operation in this regime has been demonstrated. 
Already turbine buckets are operatmg in a 1,500° F. gas temperature. 
Kerosene fuel to the engine is provided by a turbine- driven fuel pump. 

4. Rochet motor. — The rocket motor, being small and light, has been 
chosen as a 9,000-pound thrust unit, which takes advantage of a high 
thrust output without presenting impractical arrangement or installa- 
tion problems. An example of actual application is the well-known 
German Aie 163. For practical reasons an existing type of rocket 
motor using a bipropellant fuel system has been chosen, leaving room 
for considerable improvement with further research in the relatively 
near future. 

The problem of supplying the fuel and oxidizer to the motor at high 
pressure is solved by turbine-operated pumps using the same propel- 
lants for power. 

5. Maximum thrust available (figs. 1-3). — Immediately apparent 
is the fact that the conventionally powered airplane will have the low- 
est maximum speed at all altitudes and, also, that it is essentially a low- 
altitude power plant. Obviously, the ceiling of this airplane will be 
inferior. Furthermore, the maximum speed limitation is absolute as 
indicated by the fact that above GOO miles per hour the propulsive effi- 
ciency limitation due to compressibility effects causes the thrust avail- 
able practically to vanish. The slope of the curve indicates good accel- 
eration characteristics in level flight below maximum speed and also 
that climb characteristics will be relatively good. 

Considering the rocket airplane, maximum performance is obviously 
superior under all conditions. Inasmuch as atmospheric pressure 
variation is but a small percentage of the motor chamber pressure, the 
small variation in thrust with altitude has been neglected. Air speed 
has no effect upon thrust output. At low altitudes only does the 
ram- jet offer competition in available thrust, but this is offset by the 
fact that airplane drag at high air densities is also extremely high. 

777488—48 31 



432 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 194 7 











CONSTANT 9000 LBS 










/ 


































/ 


















V 




fjfAXIMUM AVAILABLE THR'IST 
























60 CO 






M 






\ 


\ 






SEA LEVEL 








1 


























4000 




\ 


\, 














/ 




















^" 


---- 


\ 


\ 












/ 










.MUTkX'' 












-^ 


k. 


\ 


\ 


— - 








/ 






jjjgas ju 
















/ 










on 






'^^ 


s 


H 








/ 








TURBC -JET 


C0NTM00O3 










r 


\ 










\ 


V 


























1 




'V 


^, 






/ 


A 


^ 


> , 






















3 
X 








^ 


%< 


/ 






^ 


k 




















< 








^ 


y 


<sil^ 


55!^ 








\ 


V 






















-^ 












~ 






\ 















£00 300 400 soo eoo too 

TRUE AIRSPEED-MRH. 

FiGXJEE 1. — Thrust vs. air speed at sea level. 













ROCKt 


T'CO 


«STAN 


T900 


> LBS 














/ 
































/ 












<A 






M 


aiMU 


* AV« 


ILABl 


F TH 


RIISJ 










^1 


/ 












-J 
I 








1 ^ 1 












7 














J 

i 
























/ 


' 














i. 






















/ 


/ 
















% 






















/ 


















s 


-i!oQ 


^ 


S'/rJ 














A 








\k\\S\ 


'JC- 



















^ 










/ 


/ 


— - 


TUWO 


.jt"« 


lO'l'" 


iuS!& 








20OO 




^^ 








/ 






■-^ 


^f(, 






■'^ 


4,5_ 




/ 






' 






















-.^ 














JFit^ 


iaiaa 


2a4_^ 




y 


/ 


"^ 


k. 
































^ 


^^ 




^^ 





























^ 

































200 



600 



TOO 



300 400 SOO 

TRUE AIRSPEED- M.RH. 

FiGUBE 2.— Thrust vs. air speed at 20,000 feet. 

Outstanding is the rocket's complete superiority in performance at 
high altitudes where airplane drag is greatly reduced. Thus, high- 
altitude speeds will necessarily be outstanding as will also the high 
rate of climb at all altitudes. 

Eelatively constant thrust with speed variation is also apparent for 
the turbojet. In this case output suffers considerably with altitude, 



AIRPLANE PERFORMANCES — HAMLIN AND SPENCELEY 433 

















J 1 u 

ROCKET* CONSTAf T 900O LBS 




































































































y> 












M 


IXIMUM AVAILABLE THRUST 






















|at I 






1 
















45,020 FEET 




























< 


































J.'' 


^ 




< 
































/ 


y 






I 




























.^ 


/ 










X 

< 
3 


























~d*^ 


































y 


y 














::^ 




















^ 


^ 

T iRBO-. 


Ef ( ONTlt 


ugys. 










— ~ 


—-PgO 


?£tte 


LlSOj 


TJjuoi 


Pa< 


PSLL 


.S_W( 


ctu:6 




5(j#-^ 




















s 

















-- 


^ 




— 


r" 


'-^( 


o* 

















100 800 30O 400 900 600 700 BOO 900 

TRUE AinSlfCD - U.P.M 

Figure 3. — Thrust vs. air speed at 40,000 feet. 

but maximum speed performance compared to the propeller-driven 
airplane affords a sharp contrast. 

From the standpoint of self-sufficiency, the ram- jet is the least 
desirable since an auxiliary means of propulsion is required for take- 
off. Although thrust varies roughly as the velocity to the 2.0 to 2.5 
power, it falls off with atmospheric density. In other words, thrust 
is a direct function of differential pressure, which, in turn, is deter- 
mined by the airplane drag characteristics. This results in a relatively 
low airplane ceiling but an excellent maximum speed at sea level where 
the air forces become prohibitive for sonic air speeds. Loss of energy 
due to shock waves in the duct entrance has been taken into account. 

6. Specific engine weight (fig. 4) . — Important in the airplane design 
configuration is the power-plant installation weight. For comparison, 
the complete power-plant weight, exclusive of fuel-supply system, per 
unit of maximum available thrust, is presented in figure 4. (See also 
sec. 9.) When the reciprocating engine is used for high-altitude op- 
eration it becomes an extremely complicated and heavy power plant; 
in fact, beyond 40,000 feet it becomes prohibitively so. Also, the 
improvement in specific engine weight with decreasing air speed and 
altitude again classifies propeller propulsion as best suited for rela- 
tively low air speeds and altitudes. Even when compared at low alti- 
tudes, the reciprocating power-plant dry weight is some 20 times as 
heavy as the rocket motor. 

The turbojet oft'ers a considerable improvement in engine weight 
which will probably continue to be improved. Again, with increas- 



434 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947 

ing altitude specific engine weight increases, but not to the prohibitive 
degree evidenced by the propeller type. Also, contrary to the propeller 
type, specific weight improves at the higher air speeds, which empha- 
sizes the practicability of higher air speeds. 

Considering the ram-jet, its design depends to a large extent on 
both speed and altitude. Marked improvement obtains at higher air 
speeds, and, when considering the reduction of thrust with altitude, 
it tends to become bulky and heavy for high-powered, high-altitude 
application. Apparently, the ram-jet is a medimn-low-altitude, high- 
speed type of power plant. 




ALTITUDE • 1000 FEET 

FiGUBJE 4. — Power plant weight-thrust ratio. 

Simplest of all is the rocket, which again makes no compromise 
for air speed or altitude variation. In terms of specific power-plant 
weight it is unexcelled. 

7. SpecifiG fuel consumption {S. F. C.) at maximum^ continuous 
thrust (fig. 5) . — The propeller-type plant offers a large saving in fuel, 
especially at the lower air speeds, as evidenced by its specific fuel con- 
sumption at maximum continuous thrust rating. At speeds exceeding 
500 miles per hour this fuel consumption would become greater than 
that of the turbojet. However, employing this thrust rating, speeds 



AIRPLANE PERFORMANCES — HAMLIN AND SPENCELEY 435 

much in excess of 400 miles per hour are not obtainable. Curves for 
both the propeller and turbojet are based upon maximum continuous 
available thrust, which, unlike the ram-jet and rocket, are less than the 
maximiun available as shown in figures 1, 2, and 3. Specific consump- 
tion at maximum continuous thrust for the turbojet does not vary 
significantly with air speed and improves appreciably at the higher 
altitudes. 



iZ 










W 


■ 




1 














21 








\\\ 






SR 


pClFI. 


:fl 


feLCDNSL 


MPT 


DM 














ftLl 


THF 




20 








\\\ 






NU) 


XIMlfel CC 


tfTK^MUl 


•UST 






















19 










\i 












-«fi< 














14 










1 


\ 
























17 










\ 


\ 
























)<f 










\ 


^\ 
























19 












\v 
























14 












\\ 


\ 






















13 












\ 


\\ 






















\i 


i 










\ 


v 


^ 




















II 


s 












\\ 


\ 




















10 


I 












\ 


v\ 


\ 


RAM 


JET 














g 


-1 














N^ 


\ 


















e 


3 
u. 














\ 


\ 


















7 


CD 
















\^ 


^ 


S 
















u. 
















^ 


No 


N^ 


\ 












? 




















X 


N^ 


^ 


N 










4 
























■^ 


^^ 


^ 






? 






























~~~ 
















































TUR^ 


0-JE 


r 













— 










i;p.ft 


gl- 


=r^ 












— 


-8 


^ 


PR (3 


ELLf 


R 






— ♦poot 




( 




H 


K) 


2( 


10 


3( 
TWJE 


10 


41 

»Frn 


~ M 


"1 


)0^ 


» 


JO 


T 


X) 8i 


» 





































Figure 5. — S. F. C. at maximum continuous thrust. 

In the case of the ram-jet, an entirely different variation is found. 
Here, efficient operation is decidedly improved at extremely high 
speeds, in the region of Mach Number =1.0, while at lower air speeds 
the fuel consumption is prohibitively high, and, as seen from figures 1, 
2, and 3, the maximum thrust available at low air speeds is exceedingly 
small. Again, the ram-jet clearly belongs to the very high-speed 
regime. 

As usual, the rocket is not influenced by speed or altitude, resulting 
in a constant, but high, specific fuel consumption, since the oxygen to 
support combustion must be included. 



436 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947 

Selecting S.F.C. values, (lb fuel/lb. thrust times hours), maximum 
continuous thrust operation for each power plant results in the 
following comparison : 

S. F. C. at maximum continuous thrust 



Power plant 


Sea level 


20,000 feet 


Actual 


Relative 


Air speed 


Actual 


Relative 


Air speed 


Propeller. 


0.56 

1.72 

5.10 

18.76 


1.0 
3.1 
9.1 
33.6 


300 
520 
650 
675 


0.71 

1.46 

5.15 

18.75 


1.0 
2.1 
7.2 

26.4 


375 


Turbojet 


520 


Ram-jet 


590 


Rocket 


685 







Air speeds corresponding to the four airplanes are included in the 
table as a matter of interest. A considerable improvement in eificiency 
at the higher altitude is noted for the last three power plants compared 
to the propeller and the price that must be paid for increasing air 
speeds above 500 m. p. h. is painfully evident. 

8. Variatioti of S. F. C. with reduced thrust (fig. 6) . — Comparison 
of specific fuel consumption at various level flight speeds is not possible 
without considering airplane characteristics, because the thrust re- 
quired depends directlj'' upon the airplane drag. Therefore, the curves 
drawn in figure 6 necessarily coincide with the particular airplanes to 
be considered later but the general trends and comparisons are valid 
in other applications. 

Obviously, the best range performer is the propeller, which, at low 
thrusts, may be operated on a lean mixture. Here the variables, engine 
revolutions per minute, manifold pressure, degree of supercharging, 
fuel mixture setting, and engine operating temperatures must all be 
carefully controlled in order to obtain maximum economy. Neverthe- 
less, a reduction in S. F. C. of the order of 50 percent from that at 
maximum continuous power represents a decided saving. Based on 
both figures 5 and 6, the propeller has no serious competitor for maxi- 
mum range or endurance at moderately low air speeds. 

Unlike the propeller, the turbojet evidences a loss in economy when 
operating at lower than maximum output, representing about a 10 
percent increase in S. F. C. for cruising conditions. Cruising S. F. C. 
is better at high altitudes than at low levels in all cases with the 
exception of the rocket. 

An appreciable improvement in economy of the ram-jet at cruising 
speeds is shown tending to offset its disadvantage when compared to 
th turbojet at high speed. Maximum thrust and the corresponding 
S. F. C. are necessarily established as those produced at the maximum 
speed of the airplane. 

The rocket, as always, appears as the only power plant whose char- 
acteristics are independent of its application. In this respect, how- 



AIRPLANE PERFORMANCES — HAMLIN AND SPENCELEY 437 

ever, the individual rocket motor units are operated at their maximum 
efficiency conditions dictated by design. In other words, a selected 
number and size of individual rocket motors are chosen so that thrust 
available exists in steps according to the motors selected during 
operation. 

























































































14 














Y/\Rl 


TipN 


9F 5 


■<J, 








IS 








\ 






RiEC 


WIT 

uceo 


THRl/ 










1.2 






1 


\ 


N*r 














— 




I.I 




\ 






»oco 


\' 


URBO- 


ffT 








t 


1.0 




\ 


v\ 






^-~~. 


i^ 




=^ 








1- 

S .9 






\\ 




RO 


:ket 








^ 






i 








V 


.RAM^ 


ET 




t^ 


/ <? 


?/ 






O 

u 

ri .7 
















A 


/> 


^ 






5 


.6 
















y 


/ 








o 


.5 












«.>'. 


f^ 




XUf. 








o 

81 


.■« 










.^ 


















.3 










/ 


-i 
















.2 




























.1 

























































( 




RATI( 


OF M 


TVA^ 


ro Mil 


J 


nnuM 


.1 
8 THS 


.1 

lejT 


1 




































Figure 6. — S. F. C. variation with thrust. 

Having analyzed the airplane range characteristics, the following 
table comparing the S. F. C.'s for conditions of maximum range is 
obtained : 

S. F. C. at economical cruising conditions 



Power plant 


Sea level 




20,000 feet 


Actual 


Relative 


Air speed 


Actual 


Relative 


Air speed 


Propeller.. 


0.28 
2.18 
4.70 
18.75 


1.0 

7.8 
16.8 
67.0 


175 
325 
535 
415 


0.32 
1.66 
4.43 
18.75 


1.0 

5.1 

13.7 

68.0 


225 


Turbojet 


365 


Ram-jet 


600 


Rocket - 


425 







438 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947 



The influence of part thrust S. F. C. variation from figure 6 is clearly 
seen. For instance, the opposite cruising trends shown for the turbojet 
and the propeller increase their relative specific fuel consumptions 
from 2 or 3 to 1 at maximum continuous thrust to 5 to 8 to 1 at optimum 
cruising thrust. 

Here again, the fact that an enormous sacrifice in economy accom- 
panies premium performance, that is high cruising speeds, is empha- 
sized. Ridiculous comparative S. F. C.'s and cruising speeds for the 
rocket seem to eliminate this power plant from any consideration 
involving economical operation. 













































¥f 






































10000 


1 




















POWE 


R PM 


NT + 


FUF,U 


wEie 


HT 








9000 


3 
Ik 

+ 










/ 














JURA' 


ION 












eooo 


5 


1 






^ 


V 








/ 


^T ^t 


XIMU 


D C0^ 


Stinuous T> 


iRy-jT 










tH 


3 FtlE 


. T4M 


uAaLJgEifitm 




7000 


o 


/ 






f 


\ 


\, 


























6000 


2 

9 


/ 




f 






\ 


^^ 
























5000 


1 






/ 








\ 










^oo' 


d,-' 


^- 










4000 


/ 




/ 












\ 


^ 


*^^^ 


Ji?-^ 




■i-9-W 












3000 


/ 


/ 


r 












P.M. « 


rfco 


s 


r70"M 


J(t.*I^.kx_ 






"ROPE 


iEa_ 




zooo 


L 






^ 


^ 


r^^ 





■shTat 


'iao-a 


r" 










1000 


/ 


^J 


■'--' 














T 


JlJOO-y 


ET 







































1 


















t 1 




■ 


1 


1 


9 1 


2 1 


* 1 

OUR 


S 1 
,TtON- 


9 £ 

M1NU1 


z 


! 2 


4 2 


S 2 


S 3 












FiGTjBE 7. — Power plant plus fuel weight. 

9. Power plant plus fuel weight (fig. 7). — Figure 7 is a plot of 
power-plant weight plus fuel weight, excluding fuel tanks, taken at 
maximum continuous rating versus duration. Weights of power plant 
are assumed as follows : 

Power-plant weights 



Motor + contr ols and pJumbiB; 

Cooling system + coolants 

Propeller 

Turbine and pumps 

Total pounds. 



Propeller 



1,000 

450 

600 





2,850 



Turbojet 



2,000 






2,000 



Ram-Jet 



550 



150 



Kocket 



450 



225 



675 



For the rocket motor the power plant plus fuel weight is startling, 
being 10,000 pounds for less than 4 minutes duration, with no weight 
allowance for fuel tankage. However, when the vastly superior thrust 
rating is considered the picture improves somewhat. 



AIRPLANE PERFORMANCES — HAMLIN AND SPENCELEY 439 

Investigations have revealed clearly the fact that for any given 
airplane and gross weight, the minimum pounds of fuel expended per 
1,000 feet of altitude gained in climbing always occurs at the maxi- 
mum available thrust. This phenomenon is valid irrespective of com- 
pressibility drag increases. Consequently, an extremely high thrust 
rocket compared to the other power plants has been chosen because it 
is practical to do so in this case where the power-plant specific weight 
is small. The tremendous amount of energy available in an extremely 
short period of time provides dazzling performance for a decidedly 
limited duration. Even under maximum range operating conditions 
at vastly reduced thrust the high S. F. C. still obtaining irrevocably 
limits range and endurance. The only possible recourse would be 
some means of launching or commencing rocket flight at high altitudes 
where exceptionally high air speeds will offset the high rate of fuel 
consumption. Thus, rocket-powered flight in the present instance is 
considerably limited in range. 

Next comes the ram-jet, in which case the fuel consumption depends 
directly upon speed and altitude. Assuming a maximum speed of 700 
miles per hour at sea level and 550 miles per hour at 30,000 feet, it is 
apparent that at low altitudes a substantial, though not large improve- 
ment over the rocket obtains. At altitude, the fuel consumption is 
not a great deal more than the propeller or turbojet-propelled air- 
planes. In this case 10,000 pounds of power plant plus fuel results in 
a practical average duration of 30 minutes. Generally, it may be con- 
cluded from the figure that the ram- jet is suitable for relatively high 
maximum speeds at medium to low altitudes for relatively short 
duration. 

By virtue of a lower power-plant weight the turbojet excels over the 
propeller up to 15 minutes at sea level and 30 minutes at 30,000 feet, 
after which the propeller takes over. Considering the decided advan- 
tage of speed for the former, it may be generalized that for excellent 
high-speed performance at all altitudes up to 40,000 feet, the turbojet 
endurance at maximum continuous thrust is a good half-hour. To 
compare with the rocket and ram- jet a 10,000-pound power plant 
would show an average duration of some 135 minutes, or 214 hours. 

The propeller and internal-combustion engine is by far the best 
power plant for long endurance at maximum continuous power but 
at a considerable sacrifice in speed. Extrapolating an average curve 
to a 10,000-pound power plant results in an endurance of about 12 
hours. Note that the ram- jet and turbojet show an increased econ- 
omy at altitude as does the propeller, but the latter is the only one to 
show an improvement in high speed at altitude. 

10. Power plant plus fuel volume (fig. 8). — In addition to power- 
plant weight its size is also a critical factor in the design of the aircraft 



440 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947 

Figure 8 shows the vohime of power plant plus fuel corresponding to 
the weights shown in figure 7. Power-plant volumes are the volumes 
occupied by the units if wrapped with cloth. In other words, power 
plants having an odd shape will result in still more space unusable 
for other airplane components. Power-plant volumes in cubic feet are 
estimated as follows, representing the minimum space not available 
for other airplane components: 

Power-^lant volumes 





Propeller 


Turbojet 


Ram-jet 


Rocket 




33 


95 


235.. 



5 




9. 




i4 


25... 


0. 










5. 




13 





0. 










Total.. - - — 


COft.» 

38 in 

5.5ft.2 


120ft.3 

52 in 

14.8 ft.'.... 


240 ft.' 

50 in 

13.6 ft.'.... 


14 ft.' 


Equivalent frontal diameter . 


18 in. 




1.8 ft.» 







600 












































po-m 


n PL 


SiNT + 


Fua. 


VOLL 


\M. 






/ 


^^ 


^ 


/ 


^ 
















V 


i 






500 




ATf 


!AX f 


3URA 


ION 


T^Rl 


ST 




/. 


/ 




/ 
















ONTir 


luoua 


















y 


y 




/ 


















*40tl 












^^^ 


^ 


/ 


^ 


/ 




nOO' 


03- 














T 








^ 


w 


/ 


/ 


/ 


\^ 


2>^ 


SJiU 


>Sii*- 
















3 

±.3CQ 






^ 


^ 
l*-"* 


_--^ 


^ 


^ 


r 
























»- 

5 


X 


^ 


*»»^* 




/ 


/ 


/ 


























^?oo 










k / 


/ 




























h 






/ 




A. 












93 


) wf^t 


^Ta 














3 
o 






" / 




































"^ 


/ 
















47 


iM.RH 


AT 3< 








/ 


V 
















S2 


3 MPH 


ATS! 








PROP 


•U.EB 






.v' 






















AT 3<; 


aoa r 


;et 







/• 




































1 




■ 


( 


1 


! 


1 


1 


* 1 

ENOOF 


5 1 
ANCE- 


9 Z 
MtNU1 


2 
ES 


2 i 


4 2 


6 2 


e : 












Figure 8. — Power plant plus fuel volume. 

In comparing the engine volumes, the power plants in order of 
preference are the rocket, propeller, turbojet, and ram- jet. Fortu- 
nately, although the last-named has a considerable volume, its weight 
and installation considerations are such that it is practical to convert 
the aft fuselage, which always is relatively vacant because of balance 
considerations, into the power plant proper. Tending to offset this 
effect is the fact that the large mass airflows consumed dictate large 
duct inlet scoops. The simplicity of mechanisms alleviates installa- 
tion problems considerably. 



AIRPLANE PERFORMANCES — HAMLIN AND SPENCELEY 441 

Next in bulky space requirements is the turbojet, nearly one-quarter 
of the volume of which is compressor entrance air supply ducting in 
an average installation. This feature requires a relatively large nacelle 
or, because of the weight and diameter, dictates the fuselage size and 
arrangement in a single-engined airplane. 

Although the internal-combustion engine is small, the space require- 
ments are nearly doubled by carburetor, oil cooler, and Prestone radia- 
tor air scoops and ducting. Fortunately, the main component parts, 
the engine, oil coolers, and Prestone coolers, may be disposed about 
the airplane structure to best advantage. 

The rocket motor is by far the smallest and simplest from the design 
standpoint. Air-intake ducts are always a problem, and at high flight 
speeds considerable research is necessary before satisfactory solutions 
will become available. In the case of the rocket, no air is taken aboard 
for the power plant, thus eliminating this problem. Note that the 
total rocket motor volume equals only the air ducting required for the 
reciprocating engine and that the power plant consists of two simple 
components that may be located at the designer's discretion. 

In the frontal area comparison both air-stream engines will dictate 
the fuselage maximum cross section; the conventional engine and 
cooling system will definitely have an influence upon this design 
feature, but the rocket eliminates this problem. 

Referring to figure 8, the additional volume required by the fuel is 
indicated by the slope of the curves. Here again, the rocket is criti- 
cally limited in duration. Following in increasing order of prefer- 
ence are the ram-jet, turbojet, and propeller. Fuels are gasoline at 
6 pounds per gallon for the propeller, kerosene at 6.7 pounds per gal- 
lon for both air-stream engines, and equivalent densities of the 
combined fuel and oxidizer for the rocket of from 8.4 to 11.2 pounds 
per gallon depending upon the fuels chosen. 

11. Engine air requirements (fig. 9) . — In designing air-intake ducts 
the relative problems are indicated by the engine air requirements 
shown in the figure for maximum thrust conditions, which would 
represent take-off, climb, and high-speed operation. 

Since the ram- jet curves approximate a straight line through the 
origin, the scoop entrance velocity will be a relatively constant per- 
centage of airplane speed. Volume of airflow is extremely large, 
indicating difficult problems to be solved. 

The turbojet evidences only a slight increase in air consumption 
with air speed, indicating that the optinmm entrance duct efficiency 
for a fixed entry will depend upon the conditions selected in the design. 
Again, large airflows must be handled. In the case of both air-stream 
engines the ram drag due to taking this air aboard has been subtracted 
from gross jet thrust to arrive at the maximum thrust available as 
shown in figures 1, 2, and 3. 



442 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947 



























































































































































































































?f 
































/ 




?2 








! 


NGin 


!! AH 


1 RE 


mme 


MEN 


r$ 












A 




}<? 








It m 


AXI!\J 


UM t 


VAIL 


ABL 


E TH 


kj$i 










/ 


1/ 


^ 




















29 




























/^ 


\ / 


y 




26 


























/ 


' * 
,^*> 


/ 


/ 




?,•« 


S 
























r-/ 


. ^ 


>' 


/ 






?.t 


"r 


§ 




















/ 


'i 


r 


/ 








20 


J 




















/ 


/ 


A 


jj^ 








18 


2 


















/^ 


/ 


/ 












16 


















/. 


K 


/ 


' 












!-» 


S 














/. 


/ 


/^ 






^ 










ip<^0 


it^. 


IS 


< 












/. 




/ 






^ 




^ 


■■ 






ip 













4' 


^ 


f^ 




















e 








/ 


^ 


y 
























6 








-^^ 


X 


























4 














200 


)0" 






































? 


















PRO 


>eLif 


R 





























400 


oo' 












<- 


ROCK 


ET 


























10 


zifco 


» 


10 
TRW 


4 

AIR 


r 

fPEEt 


5< 
— M. 


>0 
>H 


6 


« 


7 


10 


3 


10 



Figure 9. — Engine air requirements. 

Cooling air requirements for the propeller type represent about 80 
percent of the total shown. Constant air volume requirements dictate 
scoop design for particular conditions, generally for maximum speed. 

In the case of the rocket no air is required. 

PART B— AIRPLANE DESIGNS 

Since the characteristics of the four power plants are extremely 
diversified, it is difficult to determine which type is most suitable for 
a given application until each is translated into an airplane -design 
study and the respective performances are evaluated. As the majority 
of the power plants potentially represent premium performance air- 
craft at a sacrifice in pay load, it is reasonable to use a fighter or 
interceptor-type airplane as a basis for comparison. This represents 
the type of military application where performance is decidedly at a 
premium and economy and practicability are sacrificed as a matter of 
self-preservation. Arbitrarily, for expediency in the comparison, 
these aircraft will be considered as single-place, single-engined air- 



AIRPLANE PERFORMANCES — HAMLIN AND SPENCELEY 443 

craft having conventional wing and tail arrangements, conventional 
pilot accommodations, and internal fuel only. 

Figures 10-13 show the general arrangements and physical char- 
acteristics of the airplanes and table 1 lists the weiglit break-downs. 
Less armament is carried by the two airplanes whose range and dura- 
tion of combat are obviously restricted. Unit wing weight depends 
greatly upon thickness, and structure in general is affected by the 
operational speed ranges, which affect the design air loads. Landing- 
gear weight is primarily influenced by the gross weight at landing 
condition. 

Table 1. — Component weights 





Propeller 


Turbojet 


Ram -jet 


Pocket 


Wing 


1,230 
170 
660 
600 

1,660 

1,150 

40 

600 



1,100 
140 

460 


1, 650 
200 

1,100 
680 

1,850 

130 

20 

840 



1,100 
230 
700 


1,100 
260 
700 
400 

650 


1,100 


Tail 


260 




970 


Landing gear - 


450 


Power plant: 

Motor 


400 




60 




io 

1,050 
140 

700 
200 
290 


10 




550 


Turbine and pumps -- 


210 


Fised equipment: 


700 


Controls - 


200 




200 






Weight empty, pounds 


7,800 

200 

1,500 


8,400 

20f) 

3,400 


5,400 

200 

4,400 


5,100 


Pilot - 


200 


Fuel, oU and coolant - 


8,200 






Gross weight, pounds 


9,600 


12, 000 


10,000 


13, 500 







A practical limit to the internal fuel capacity appears to be about 
200 gallons of high-octane gasoline in self -sealing fuel tanks for this 
size of propeller-driven fighter. Laminar flow wings of 15 percent 
thickness are employed. A nominal wing loading of the order of 35 
to 40 pounds per square foot represents a present-day compromise 
between performance on the one hand, and maneuverability and serv- 
iceability with respect to tactical airfield considerations on the other. 
Armament load is 1,100 pounds. 

Because of the disadvantageous fuel-consumption characteristics 
of the turbojet and also the considerably increased high-speed regime 
of operation, this type of airplane is forced to higher wing loadings, 
in this case of 50 pounds per square foot, resulting in a greater differ- 
ence between take-off and landing wing loadings. Wing thickness 
of 13 percent compromises internal fuel capacity with low drag char- 
acteristics. In this case, also, leak-proof fuel tanks for kerosene are 
a necessity. Fuel here represents about 31 percent of the take-off gross 
weight compared to 16 percent in the case of the propeller, resulting 
in landing wing loadings of 35 and 33 pounds per square foot, 
respectively. The same 1,100-pound provision is allowed for 
armament. 



444 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947 





Figure 10. — Propeller airplane. Gross weight, 9,500; wing area, 250; take-off 
W/S, 38 ; lauding W/8, 33 ; wing section, 65-215 ; aspect r? tio, 6 ; wing incidence, 
1.5°; fuel load— gal., 200; fuel load— lbs., 1,200; wing span, 39'2" ; fuselage 
length, 32'8" ; vertical height, 10'7". 




FiGXJBE 11.— Turbojet airplane. Gross weight, 12,000; wing area, 240; take-off 
W/S, 50 ; landing W/8, 35 ; wing section, 65-113 ; aspect ratio, 7 ; wing incidence, 
1.5° ; fuel load— gal., 500; fuel load— lbs., 3,350; wing span, 40'11" ; fuselage 
length, 32' 11" ; vertical height, 12'9". 



AIRPLANE PERFORMANCES — HAMLIN AND SPENCELEY 445 




FiGXJBE 12.— Ram-jet airplane. Gross weight, 10,000 ; wing area, 130 ; launching 
W/S, 77 ; landing W/S, 42 ; wing section, 65-110 ; aspect ratio, 6 ; wing incidence, 
1.0°; fuel load— gal., 655; fuel load— lbs., 4,400; wing span, 2S' ; fuselage 
length, 28' ; vertical height, 12'4". 





Figure 13. — Rocket airplane. Gross weight, 13,500 ; wing area, 130 ; take-off W/S, 
104; landing W/S, 40; wing section, 65-110; aspect ratio, 6; wing incidence, 
2.0° ; fuel load— gal., 985 ; fuel load— lbs., 8,200 ; wing span, 28' ; fuselage length. 
32'8" ; vertical height, lO'lO". 

In the design of the ram-jet airplane, the combustion chamber cross- 
sectional area dictates the fuselage size. Because of high fuel con- 
sumption 44 percent of the launching gross weight represents fuel 
carried in both the fuselage and wing. Kerosene is assumed as fuel 
carried in self -sealing tanks. Since the flight duration and range are 
limited, this airplane is adaptable only to defensive strategy, and, if 
self-sealing tanks are eliminated, a consequent improvement will be 



446 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947 

afforded by the addition of some 10 percent in fuel. Some compromise 
wing loadings must be chosen. In this case 77 pounds per square foot 
for take-off represents a relatively low wing loading for this type 
of airplane but is assumed to allow for auxiliary means of take-off 
and flight up to 350 miles per hour, at which point the ram-jet power 
plant is started for the first time, take-off obviously not being possible 
with the ram- jet alone. The resultant landing wing loading of 42 
pounds per square foot is quite reasonable. 

High performance dictates reduction in wing thickness to 10 per- 
cent. 

As is obvious from the phenomenal fuel consumption, the rocket- 
motor-powered airplane must carry an abnormal amount of fuel, in 
this case 8,200 pounds, or 61 percent of the take-off gross weight. 
Wing loading is dictated primarily by the landing condition and has 
been held at 40 pounds per square foot, resulting in 104 pounds per 
square foot for take-off, wliich seems entirely feasible. Since super- 
performance is obvious, aerodynamic considerations dictate the entire 
arrangement. A practicable wing thickness of 10 percent for the wing 
and 8 percent for the tail are chosen. As in the case of the ram-jet, 
700 pounds of armament are installed. Tanks are not self -sealing 
owing to the nature of the fuels, the extremely short duration, and 
the exceptional performance. All fuel is carried in the fuselage. 



PAET C— PERFORMANCE COMPARISONS 

1. Calculation of airplane drag. — Drag estimates for all four air- 
planes are based upon an identical analysis wherein the wetted areas 
of the component parts are assigned drag coefficients depending upon 
fineness ratios, Reynolds Numbers, and Mach Numbers. In this man- 
ner, the drag coefficients of the component parts are obtained and 
adjusted for lift coefficient or angle of attack. The cleanliness factors, 
6'^=the parasite drag coefficient based upon total wetted area at 6'l=0 
and /?i\^=8XlO% and the parasite drag coefficients, based upon wing 
area, are given in the following table : 

Cleanliness factor and drag coefficients 



Propeller 
Turbojet. 
Ram-jet-. 
Rocket... 



Wetted area 



931 
881 
672 



Cf 



0,0038 
.0034 
.0035 
.0034 



250 
240 
130 
130 



Cd 



0.014 
.013 
.019 
.017 



Both the turbojet and the rocket exhibit extremely good aerodynamic 
cleanliness, being about an 11-percent improvement over the propeller 
airplane. Drag coefficients based on wing area are shown in which 
high wing loadings, because of the relatively large fuselages, result 



AIRPLANE PERFORMANCES — HAMLIN AND SPENCELEY 447 

in high parasite drag coeflicients. The airplane drag coefficient for the 
propeller should be increased to 0.015 to allow for cooling drag at high 
speeds. 

Of the utmost importance is the effect of compressibility on drag 
above the critical speed, which depends upon body shape and altitude. 
Ballistic data have been useless to the airplane designer because of 
the complete neglect of aerodynamic characteristics as such, the blunt 
projectile trailing edge shapes, and generally the extremely high Mach 
Number regimes of projectile flight. 

























































































































CO 


■flpp 


;S5I 


3|U- 


^ K 


)AG 


FAC 


OR 


































































If 




































1? 






















^ 




13^ 


WIN( 








14 




















/ 
















13 




















/ 
/ 
















1? 




















/ 














i 


II 




















// 


^ " 




10% 








3 ic 




















/ / 














i 9 


















i 


/ 


^~ 




e% 








9, e 


















/ 

f 


/ / 














7 


















/ 


// 














< 

i 6 


















// 

/ r 


/ 






FU 


!£LA 


:e 




u 


















1 ' 










JIN 
TrFI ' 


F 




a 

'i ^ 
















(''' 


/ 














d 3 
















/■'' 


/ 
i 
















t 
















1 
1 


V- 








-- 








:i 


1 
















J^ 


i> 





















































1 






■' 




I 




^ 




1 





1. 


2 




















UACI 


NUllsER 



















































Figure 14. — Compressibility drag multiplication factor. 

Reference 2 provides the basis for the compressibility drag multi- 
plication factor used for wings. This factor is multiplied directly 
times the airplane drag calculated on the above basis neglecting shock 
wave effects. These factors, assumed to vary directly as wing thick- 
ness as shown in jBgure 14, are 15.6, 12.0, and 9.6 for 13, 10, and 8 
percent thick laminar flow airfoils at M= 1.0. In the case of a fuselage, 
representing a more compact three-dimensional body, a corresponding 
value of 6.0 has been assumed. 



777488—48- 



-32 



448 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947 





















































































































































9 














■ — 


— 


7- 

































S 
















J 




r— 


' — 






:rr: 


. 


— . 


















9 


















f 










— 1 


— 


1 


, 








^ 








§ 
















\ 


^ 




















7 






\ 






9 












1- 




' 






















1 






\ 


^ 




8 













































\ 






9 






































1 






/ 


\ 




« 


a. 










tj 
































( 


\ 







1 

> 










1 
































K 


\ 




K 












o 



































1 
















































a 






a 

s 


















































<? 








1 




1 




1 




t 








1 




1 




t 








8 

9 



































s 


n-9 


>ao 























































































■ 





































































































































8.. 





























































— 




/ 


C3 


^ 






bzz! 


n:: 


i^^ 






















S 
















! 














- — ■ 


-— 


— ^ 


!^ 


^ 


=^. 










« 














1 




f- 
5 


















> 


s^^ 


k 








^ 




































( 


\ 


<^ 


\ 






^ 










_1- 




























J- 




\ 


\ 






S 










1 


























P 




^ 


A 






♦ i 


































- 




/ 


'^\ 


\ 




j 










i 






























I 




V 




^ 











































0- 




\ 




f? 














































\ 








... 













































































































8 
° 










8 








1 




1 









8 





















' 






















«81 


-QVS 


a 





















AIRPLANE PERFORMANCES — HAMLIN AND SPENCELEY 449 

Finally, the total airplane drag vs. true air speed is depicted in fig- 
ures 15, 16, and 17. These curves, together with those in part A of this 
paper, provide the necessary data for the performance evaluations 
given below. 

The drag curves shown are for the highest airplane weights obtain- 
ing after climbing to the respective altitudes. Gross weight variation 
has been taken into account wherein performance is affected. 















































































JO<JO 








































































■VXiO 








or; 


G A 


■ ■^-fl 


y.Q 


ni 


T 






















































9000 








































































'000 






























































y 


^ 








Wpo 
























/ 


^ 




























(WC 


IE7- 


A 


/ 










vl 


»9<? 
























/ 










4 
























/ 












a 


foon 






















/ 




































/ 














•lOOO 


















^ 




































/ 


















fOOO 










1-UK 


!0-J! 


T — 


N^ 


/ 


































iy\ 




















IfW) 




Plwf 


FIIF 


^*—\ 






/ 






























" 1 


^ . 


-^ 
























<} 




































1 


10 


£ 


O 


3. 


« 


4 





t\ 


« 


Ui 





T 


o 






















V- 


r 



















Figure 17. — Airplane drag at 40,000 feet. 



2. Maximum speeds and best climbing speeds (fig. 18) . — Maximum 
speed of the propeller airplane is 480 miles per hour at 25,000 feet, 
indicating that the practical high speed limit for this type of pro- 
pulsion will not greatly exceed 500 miles per hour. At all altitudes 
up to 40,000 feet a speed greater than 400 miles per hour is attainable, 
although 400 miles per hour at sea level seems slow for ground-strafing 
work. Best climbing air speed is relatively low, being 50 to 55 per- 
cent of maximum level flight speed between sea level and critical 
altitude, respectively. 



450 



ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947 



Next in high speed comes the turbojet, which excels the propeller 
at all altitudes, being 37 percent faster at sea level and 8 percent at 
25,000 feet, the top speed of 550 miles per hour representing a de- 
cided advantage. Maximum speed for this airplane occurs at sea level 
only because of the influence of Mach Number on drag. Otherwise, 
a considerable increase in speed with altitude up to 20,000 to 30,000 
feet would be found. Although at altitudes between 25,000 and 40,000 
feet the speeds are not greatly in excess of those for the propeller, this 
margin will improve with further development of turbojet engines. 

A Mach Number = 1.0 line is shown in the figure, representing the 
magic barrier to speed performance, being the condition of maximum 
airplane drag coefficient. In order to achieve sonic velocity, the thrust 




FiatmE 18. — Maxinmm and best climbing speeds. 

required at sea level would be 1,000 percent of that for the speed 
actually attained or 650 percent in the case of a 30,000-foot altitude. 
Sonic velocities with this type of airplane, therefore, appear impos- 
sible at the present time. 

Regarding speed for best climb, which occurs at 65 percent of 
maximum speed at sea level and 75 percent at 20,000 feet, a consider- 
able tactical advantage over the propeller airplane is realized. A 
greater distance covered during climb, since rates of climb for both 
are comparable, also offers a considerable advantage in being able to 
protect a given target from a base relatively far distant. An appre- 
ciable performance margin also obtains above 40,000 feet because of 
the higher ceiling of the turbojet airplane. 



AIRPLANE PERFORMANCES — HAMLIN AND SPENCELEY 451 

Turning to the ram-jet airplane, it is astonishing to note that its 
speed for best climb considerably exceeds the turbo] et's maximum 
speeds at all altitudes up to 33,000 feet, but that its ceiling is quite low. 
Maximum speed, 650 miles per hour, occurs at sea level, and the Mach 
Number limitation on speed is obvious in the figure. Climbing speeds 
aie about 90 percent of the maximum speeds. 

Although the ram-jet engine is hypothetical, and is undoubtedly 
optimistic, it is interesting to note that 270 percent of the actual 
thrust at 650 miles per hour at sea level is required to reach a Mach 
Number of 1.0. Because of the fact that thrust increases greatly 
with sjDeed, this represents an engine of 190 percent greater power. 
Because of the impracticability of such high air speeds at high air 
densities, sonic speeds may be regarded with considerable pessimism 
in this case also. Nevertheless, from the standpoint of maximum 
speed alone, the ram- jet excels the turbojet by as good a margin as 
the latter excels the propeller. 

The rocket airplane excels in speeds at all altitudes by a wide margin. 
At sea level the ram-jet is capable of competing for high speed, and 
at altitudes up to 30,000 feet it also is similar in speed for best climb. 
Since the rocket thrust remains constant, the rocket airplane is capable 
of increasing its Mach Number with increase in altitude until it reaches 
sonic velocity at about 24,000 feet. Thereafter maximum air speed 
increases rapidly with altitude, the maximum limitation being imposed 
purely by the available fuel. 

Speed for best climb is of interest, showing a best climbing speed 
at approximately constant Mach Number up to the tropopause. Be- 
yond this altitude the lower drag resulting from lower air densities 
enables the best climbing speed to increase until at about 57,000 feet 
Mach Number 1.0 is reached. Beyond this altitude, of course, per- 
formance is dictated entirely by the available fuel consideration. 

3. Rates of climb and ceilings (fig. 19). — Maximum rates of climb 
for both the propeller and turbojet airplanes are similar. The latter, 
however, climbs at a much higher air speed, giving it a considerable 
advantage in combat in that it therefore can determine the conditions 
of engagement in combat or terminate it at will. The absolute ceiling 
of 47,000 feet, compared with 41,500 feet, also adds to this advantage. 
Climb and speed calculations for the propeller airplane are practically 
independent of the small fuel consumption, while in the case of the 
other three airplanes gross weight has necessarily been reduced ac- 
cording to the rate of fuel consumption. It should be noted that the 
larger fuel load in percent of gross weight for the turbojet will result 
in appreciable improvement in climb performance during tactical 
operation. 

Again, the excellence of low-altitude performance is noted for the 
ram-jet airplane. Since its thrust falls oflf with air density, its ceiling 



452 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947 

is found to be low. The extremely high climbing speeds should be 
taken into consideration in tactical operations. 

The rocket airplane shows amazing rates of climb at all altitudes, 
varying from 28,500 feet per minute at sea level to 66,500 feet per 
minute at 60,000 feet, where it runs out of fuel. This airplane will 
coast to about 75,000 feet. Rate of climb reduces considerably al 
35,000 feet, because of the reduced speed for best climb, resulting in 
less thrust horsepower available at constant thrust. As climbing 
speeds approach and exceed M = 1.0, these powers become extremely 
large. For instance, 57,000 feet and 600 miles per hour in climb 
represents 16,000 thrust horsepower. Climb performance has been 



ffp 




































































































70 


































































































60 
















« 


IA)^I 


iiyKS 


R^T 


S OP 


CU 


t.B 




























































.— — 


— ' 


• — 


■ — 




iflM 




































A 


^ 












i- 

1 
V40 


































A 
















\ 


^_^ 


tipijr 


-,i(rr 
























/ 


















F 


n\ 






























/ 


— R< 


rTiKn 














i 

JO 


V 


\ 




























Y 




















/r 


\ 












































20 


\ 


\ 


























1 






















\ 




\ 






















/ 




















10 


5 


\ 






\ 


















/ 
























1 


A 








\ 


^ 


-RA 


t-it 








/ 


/ 

























V 


1 






V 


\ 










/ 


/ 
























( 




4 


1 







i 


2 





2 


s 

- IOC 


3 
FT 




/MIH 


3 


3 


<! 





4 


5 


s 





s 


s 


00 



FiGUKE 19. — Maximum rate of climb. 

integrated and weight variation accounted for, including that required 
for linear acceleration along the flight path. 

Time to climb and absolute ceiling may be compared in the follow- 
ing table, where the rocket ceiling is given as that altitude at which 
fuel is exhausted. 

Time to climb, and ceiling 





Time (minutes) to climb to — 


Absolute 




20,000 feet 


30,000 feet 


40,000 feet 


ceiling 


Propeller. . . . . . 


4.9 

4.7 

1.6 

.6 


9.0 

8.3 

3.3 

.9 


19.0 
14.3 


43, 000 


Turbojet 


47,000 




37,000 


Rocket - 


1.1 


60,000+ 







AIRPLANE PERFORMANCES — HAMLIN AND SPENCELEY 453 

4. Range (figs. 20 and 21). — In determining range and climb per- 
formance the amount of fuel consumed in climb is important, except 
in the case of the propeller. The following table compares the fuel 
consumptions in climb. 

Fuel consumed during climJ) 



Sea level to— 


Propeller 


Tuibojet 


Ram -jet 


Rocket 


Pounds 


Percent 


Pounds 


Percent 


Pounds 


Percent 


Pounds 


Percent 


10,000.— 


135 
185 
240 
290 


11.2 
15.2 
19.7 
24.1 


220 
350 
4^0 
620 


6.7 
10.4 
14.4 

18.7 


SCO 
1,200 
1, 600 


19.5 
27.2 
30.0 


2,950 
3,700 
4, 360 
5, 190 
5,950 
7,650 


36.0 


20,000 - _ 


4.5.3 


30,000 - 


53.1 


40,000 


63.2 


50,000 






72.5 


60,000.... 














92.1 




i 




" ■" i ' ' 







I2C0 








(^ 


aL 




































\ 


























WQ 










V 


siy 


w 






























\ 


























1000 










\ 




j^p 


ia>E 


Ltn 




























\ 




y 






RAJ 


iCre 


'<; A 


RSPI 


ir^ 








900 














\ 






(i.f-k-jj. 


i^^ 


pIST/ 


M«> 
































\ 






















«00 














\ 




































1 






















1<K 














■^ 


I 


X 




















10 


















■\ 
















poo 


1 


















\ 


\ 
















S 


















/ 


\ 


?00' 


0" 










990 




















/ 


\ 




























—t— 


-^ 


•-H 


-TUR 


»-J! 


^ 












100 


















\j 


N s 




































\ 


\, 










?O0 






















> ; 


■ow 






























/" 




\ 














JOp 


















5 


i^ 




\t 


pm- 


JET 






















__, 


.^ 








Y 












100 
















^ 




, 2C 


000" 


\ 


\ 
























' 




BOO 


etJ 




N 


\ 















1' 


fl 


t\ 


<J 


y 


ft 


V~l 

1' 


PH 


i 


« .. 


9' 


X? 


7' 


9 . 







Figure 20. — Range vs. air speed. 



454 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1947 

As seen from the table, the gross weight change for the propeller is 
small and for practical purposes may be neglected. Fuel expenditure 
for the ram-jet is not comparable with the others in that take-off and 
acceleration to 350 miles per hour is accomplished by auxiliary means, 
for which no allowance has been made. Both the ram- jet and rocket 
are extremely uneconomical. The rocket necessarily suffers in climb- 
ing to higher altitudes where it becomes most efficient, while the ram- 
jet is essentially a low-altitude airplane. Although the turbojet burns 



I7Q0 




-_, 










































~~~- 




,^ 


PB 


>peut 


,ER 
















lir>f? 




















•--. 
















































y 


' 


lono 






m 


XIMl 


M R 


^NPH 














\ 


/' 


y 












tl^ 


CLUt 


INC < 


UMB 














/ 


\ 








900 
























y- 




\ 


\ 


























y 


Y 








\ 






noo 


















/ 


/ 










\ 


\ 






















^ 














\ 




700 


y 






^\m 


lO-'ff 


T 


/ 


















\ 






1 






























\ 




«>oo 


< 








/ 
































/ 


/ 




























SOS 




/ 


/ 
































/I 


/ 
































400 


















































R 


M-J 


:t 










N 


. 






^PO 










































^ 




■^ 


























POO 




^ 
















































Rpc 


KFT 














































N, 





























































V 



















, 


«.TiTl 


OE - 1000 

S? 


FEEI 


? 







3 


s 


< 


o_ 



FiGUEE 21. — Range vs. altitude. 

more fuel in climb than the propeller, a greater percentage of fuel 
remains after the climb, owing merely to the fact that fuel is a much 
larger percentage of the gross weight. 

Referring to figure 20, the range versus air speed at sea level and 
at 20,000 feet is shown, which does not include the distance traveled in 
climb. Although the propeller has greatly superior maximum range, 
it obtains at an extremely low air speed (200 miles per hour), and a 
limited range of speeds. At 20,000 feet and the same air speed (350 
miles per hour), the propeller and turbojet are equal in range. 



AIRPLANE PERFORMANCES — HAMLIN AND SPENCELEY 455 

Maximum range for the turbojet, althougli considerably less than 
for the propeller, occurs at 150 miles per hour faster air speed, or 
a 45-percent reduction in time for equivalent range. Speed for best 
range increases with altitude in both cases. An outstanding character- 
istic of the turbojet is its relative insensitivity to air speed insofar 
as range is concerned, the only power-plant variable being engine 
revolutions per minute. In the case of the propeller, as previously 
mentioned, a number of variables must be carefully controlled within 
close limits to attain optimum range. 

The ram-jet suffers still greater in range, but maximum range occurs 
at extremely high air speeds, above 500 miles per hour. In this case 
only, speed for economical operation decreases with altitude. 

Eange characteristics for the rocket indicate a wide speed range, 
350 to 500 miles per hour, with an exceedingly limited range, about 
100 miles. 

Figure 21 shows the variation in maximum range with altitude, 
including the distance traveled during climb. The relative maximum 
ranges and the altitudes at which they occur, up to 40,000 feet, are 
compared : 

Maximum range 



Altitude 



Range 


Actual 


Relative 


1,220 

1,080 

420 

130 


0.4 
8.3 
3.2 
1.0 



Piopellor 
Turbojet. 
Ram -jet. 
Rocket... 



Sea level 
40,000 
30, 000 
30,000 



Whereas the propeller has the greatest range, it occurs at sea level. 
At altitudes above 35,000 feet, range for the turbojet is superior. Both 
air-stream engines and the rocket show maximum range increases with 
altitude of from 18 percent to 250 percent, contrary to the propeller. 



CONCLUSIONS 

1. Propeller airplane. — (a) A practical maximum speed limitation 
not much in excess of 500 miles per hour is apparent. Maximum 
speeds obtain in the 20,000- to 30,000-foot range. 

(h) Because of superior range, the propeller type of propulsion 
cannot be supplanted at the present time. Maximum range is rela- 
tively insensitive to altitude up to engine critical altitude. 

(c) Greater pay loads possible in addition to range make com- 
mercial application and long-range bombers most attractive. 

(d) Cruising and climbing speeds are slow. 

(e) Operation above 40,000 feet appears impractical except possibly 
in the case of power plants incorporating the gas turbine. 



456 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 194 7 

(/) Maximum rate of climb occurs at sea level. 

{g) Further improvements, adaptations, and variations will be 
widely developed in terms of compound and gas-turbine engines and 
various combinations of them. 

2. Turbojet aivplane. — {a) High maximum speeds where relatively 
short range is required make this airplane mandatory for military 
application. Maximum speed occurs at sea level. 

(&) Again, for short-range premium operation in commercial fields 
this power plant is attractive. Eange improves markedly with alti- 
tude, and economical cruising speeds are relatively high. 

(c) Eelatively high operating altitudes, at least up to 50,000 feet, 
are feasible. At high altitudes respectable range is obtained. 

{d) Maximum speed of the order of 550 to 600 miles per hour and 
above at sea level is ideally suited for air-to-ground military operation. 

(e) Maximum rate of climb occurs at sea level. 

(/) Speeds for maximum rate of climb are reasonably high. 

3. Ram-jet airplane. — {a) Maximum speed, of the order of 650 miles 
per hour, occurs at sea level. 

(&) Climbing speeds are exceptionally high, being within 5 to 10 
percent of maximum level-flight speeds. 

(c) Range is extremely limited, representing some 50 percent of 
that for the turbojet, and also increases considerably with altitude. 

{d) Maximum rate of climb at sea level is exceptionally high, but 
falls off rapidly with increase in altitude, resulting in a rather low 
ceiling, below 40,000 feet. 

(e) Auxiliary take-off means are required. 

(/) Performance characteristics indicate that the ideal application 
would be in the field of low-altitude, flat trajectory missiles against 
such targets as battleships and aircraft carriers in particular. Air 
launching would probably be more practical than surface launching. 

4. Rocket air-plane. — (a) This is the only man-carrying airplane 
capable of flight at supersonic speeds, which distinguishes this type of 
propulsion from the others considered. 

(&) Range is extremely limited and increases slightly with altitude. 

(c) As in the case of maximum speed, so also does rate of climb 
increase phenomenally with altitude. 

{d) Ceiling, speed, and climb performance are limited only by the 
amount of fuel it is possible to carry. 

(e) Performance characteristics indicate ideal application to mis- 
siles following a trajectory. Peak altitudes greatly exceeding the 
capability of any other man-made mechanisms are possible. Missile 
ranges can be vastly extended. 

(/) Highly specialized applications in terms of research airplanes 
and interceptors are evident. A research airplane could be used to 
conduct tests in level flight for application to high-speed and diving 



AIRPLANE PERFORMANCES — HAMLIN AND SPENCELEY 457 

problems encountered on other types of airplanes. Target-seeking 
interceptor missiles powered by rocket motors should be most effective. 

REFERENCES 

1. Von KlBMlN, Th. 

1944. Comparative study of jet propulsion systems as applied to missiles and 

transonic aircraft. Jet Propulsion Laboratory Memorandum JPL-2, 
California Institute of Technology, Mar. 28. 

2. Gdlbuth, II. R., and Wktmork, J. W. 

1945. Preliminary tests of several airfoil models in the transonic speed 

range. N. A. C. A. A. C. R., May. 



INDEX 



A i'aee 

Abbot, Charles G viii, 119, 120 

Abbott, R. Tucker vi 

(Mollusks and medicine in World War II) 325 

Accessions-. 11,29,38,39,40,45,82,93, 152 

Bureau of American Ethnology 82 

Freer Gallery of Art — 45 

Library 152 

National Collection of Fine Arts 38, 40 

National Gallery of Art 29 

National Museum 11 

National Zoological Park 93 

Smithsonian Institution 39 

Administrative accountant (Thomas F. Clark) v 

Administrative Assistant to the Secretary (Harry W. Dorsey).. V 

Administrative staff viii 

Airplane performances, Comparison of propeller and reaction-propelled 

(Hamlin and Spenceley) 429 

Aldrich, Loyal B., Director, Astrophysical Observatory viii, 123 

Aldrich, WilUam T 5,39 

All, Sdlim 20 

Anderson, Clinton P., Secretary of Agriculture (member of the Institution). v 

Andrews, A. J vi 

Appropriations.-. 5, 25, 62, 64, 90, 125, 150, 161, 168 

Canal Zone Biological Area 150 

Institute of Social Anthropology 62 

National Air Museum 125 

National Gallery of Art 25 

National Zoological Park 90 

Printing and binding 161 

River Basin Surveys 64 

Arctowski, Henryk 119 

Arms, John Taylor 5, 39 

Assistant Secretary of the Institution (John E. Graf) v, 3 

Assistant Secretary of the Institution (J, L. Keddy) v 

Astrophysical Observatory viii, 118 

Division of Astrophysical Research 118 

Work in the field. 119 

Work in Washington 118 

Division of Radiation and Organisms 120 

General 120 

Research 120 

Publications 122 

Report 118 

Staff viii 

Aten, A. H, W., Jr. (The use of isotopes as tracers) 217 

459 



460 INDEX 

Page 

Atomic energy (Johns) 177 

Attorney General of the United States (Tom C. Clark, member of the 

Institution) v 

Avery, E. A vii 

Awl, Aime M vi 

Ayres, Louis 5, 39 

B 

Bachand, Madeleine A 65 

Barber, H. G 12-13 

Barkley , Alben W. (regent of the Institution) v, 2 

Barnes, J. T vi 

Bartsch, Paul vi 

Bass, S. L. (Silicones — a new continent in the world of chemistry) ?29 

Bassler, R. S vii 

Bats, The senses of (Vesey-FitzGerald) 317 

Bauxar, J. Joseph 68, 69 

Bayer, Frederick M vi, 19 

Beach, Jessie G vii 

Beal, GlfFord 5,39 

Belin, Ferdinand Lamot, Vice President, National Gallery of Art viii, 24, 25 

Belote, T. T viii 

Benn, J. H vii 

Bent, Arthur C vi 

Bikini Atoll, The biology of, with special reference to the fishes (Schultz) _ . 301 

Blackwelder, R. E vi 

Bliss, Robert W 39, 40, 68, 69, 71 

Board of Regents v, 2 

Executive Committee v, 169 

Members v, 2 

Proceedings 2 

Boss, Norman H vii 

Boving, A. G vii 

Brostrup, John O 80, 81 

Brown, John N 39 

Brown, M. W viii 

Brown, W. L vi 

Bryant, H. S viii 

Buchanan, L. L vi 

Buchsbaum, Ralph and Mildred 139 

Bush, Vannevar (regent of the Institution) v, 2, 3, 169 

C 

Cairns, Huntington, Secretary-Treasurer and General Counsel, National 

Gallery of Art viii, 24, 37 

Caldwell, Joseph R vi, 18, 73 

Canal Zone Biological Area viii, 4, 126 

Report 126 

Comments of scientists 136 

Fiscal report 150 

Island herbarium 141 

Island literature 127 

List of termites of Panama and the Canal Zone 143 



INDEX 461 

Canal Zone Biological Area — Continued 

Report — Continued Page 

Needs 141 

Organizations contributing to support of the laboratory 151 

Rainfall, temperatures, and relative humidity, 1946 145 

Regarding the island 126 

Scientists and their studies 128 

Species index 140 

Termite-free buildings in the Tropics 142 

Cannon, Clarence (regent of the Institution) v, 2, 3, 169 

Cappannari, Stephen C 76 

Carey, Charles viii 

Carriker, M. A., Jr 12, 19 

Carwithen, Bertha T., personnel officer v 

Cassedy, Edwin G viii, 80 

Caywood, Louis R 77 

Centennial, Smithsonian 6 

Chace, F. A., Jr vi 

Chancellor of the Institution (Fred M. Vinson, Chief Justice of the United 

States) V, 2 

Chapin, Edward A vi, 13 

Chapman, Frank M 140 

Chase, Agnes vii 

Chief Justice of the United States (Fred M. Vinson, Chancellor of the In- 
stitution) -- V, viii, 2, 24 

Civilization, The primary centers of (Swan ton) 367 

Clark, Austin H vi 

Clark, Leila F., librarian v, 155 

Clark, Leland B viii, 119 

Clark, Robert Sterling vii 

Clark, Thomas F., administrative accountant v, viii 

Clark, Tom C, Attorney General (member of the Institution) v 

Clarke, Gilmore D 5, 39, 40 

Cloud, R E., Jr 20 

Cochran, Doris M vi 

Collins, H. B., Jr viii, 56, 57 

Commerford, L. E., chief, publications division v 

Compton, Arthur H. (regent of the Institution) v, 2, 3 

Congdon, Charles E 58 

Conger, Paul S vii, 20 

Cook, O. F vi, vii 

Cooper, Gustav A vii, 14, 20 

Cooper, Paul L 66, 68, 69, 70 

Cox, D. C. (The tsunami of April 1, 1946, in the Hawaiian Islands) 257 

Cox, E. E 2 

Cross, Whitman vii 

Gumming, Robert B., Jr 70, 71 

Cushman, Joseph A vi 

D 

Dale, Chester viii, 24, 25 

Daugherty, Richard D 77 

Davis, Harvey N. (regent of the Institution) v, 2, 3 



462 INDEX 

Fage 

Dearborn, Ned 12 

Deardorff, Merle H 58 

Deignan, H. G vi 

Delano, Frederic A. (regent of the Institution) v, 2, 3 

Director, National Museum (Alexander Wetmore) vi, 23 

Donohoe, John C 73 

Dorsey, Harry W., Administrative Assistant to the Secretary v, viii, 89 

Dorsey, Nicholas W., Treasurer of the Institution v 

Drowned ancient islands of the Pacific Basin (Hess) 281 

Drucker, Philip. viii, 59, 60, 76, 77 

Duncan, Carl D. (Some remarks on the influence of insects on human wel- 
fare) -- - --- 339 

Dunkle, D. H vii, 22 

E 

Edgell, George H 39 

Editorial division, chief (Webster P. True) v, 161 

Egler, Frank E 139 

Elder, R. A., Jr vi 

Ellis, Max M vi 

Emery, Murl 54 

Eng, Ransom L. (The Ryukyu people: A cultural appraisal) 379 

Erdman, D. S vi 

Erikson, G. E 132 

Essex, John L 73 

Establishment, The 2 

Ethnology, Bureau of American viii, 53 

Archives 80 

Collections 82 

Editorial work and publications 79, 160 

Illustrations 80 

Institute of Social Anthropology 62 

Library 79 

Miscellaneous 82 

Report — 53 

River Basin Surveys 64 

Special photographic restoration project 80 

Staff viii 

Systematic researches 53 

Ettinghausen, Richard viii 

Ewers, J. C vi 

Executive Committee of the Board of Regents 162, 169 

Members 169 

Report 162 

Appropriations 168 

Audit 168 

Cash balances, receipts and disbursements during fiscal year 1947- 166 

Classification of investments 165 

Freer Gallery of Art fund 164 

Gifts and bequests 167 

Smithsonian endowment fund 162 



^^ 

INDEX 463 

p> W Page 

Fairchild, D. G vii, 137, 139 

Fairchild, Graham Bell 133 

Federal Classification Act 5 

Fenenga, Frankliu 76, 77 

J'enneman, Nevin M 138 

Fenton, William N viii, 57, 58 

Field, Hugh W. (New products of the petroleum industry) 235 

Fiester, M. L 79 

Finances G, 162 

Finley, David E., Director, National Gallery of Art viii, 24, 25, 39, 40 

Fisher, A. K vii 

Fisher, W. K vii 

Fite, E. J vii 

Forrestal, James, Secretary of the Navy (member of the Institution) v 

Foshag, W. F vii, 22 

Foster, G. M., Jr., Director, Institute of Social Anthropology viii, 62, 63 

Fraser, James E 39 

Freer Gallery of Art viii, 45 

Attendance 50 

Changes in exhibitions 48 

Collections 45 

Docent service, lectures, meetings 50 

Repairs to the collection 48 

Report 45 

Staff viii 

Study collections 50 

Friedmann, Herbert vi 

G 

Garber, P. E vii 

Gazin, C. Lewis vii, 14, 21 

Gazin, Elisabeth H viii 

Gellatly , John, estate 5 

George, Walter F. (regent of the Institution) v. 2, 3 

Goodrich, Lloyd 5, 39 

Graf, John E., Assistant Secretary of the Institution v, 3 

Graham, David C vii 

Greeley, F. A 120 

Greeley, Paul 119 

Greene, Charles T vi 

Griffiths, Col. D. W 74 

Guest, Grace Dunham viii 

H 

Hackett, L. W 138 

Hall, Robert L 73 

Hamilton, James B 129, 136 

Hamlin, Benson (Comparison of propeller and reaction-propelled airplane 

performances) 429 

Hannegan, Robert E,, Postmaster General (member of the Institution) v 

Hargrett, Lester M _ _ 57 



464 INDEX 

Harriman, William Averell, Secretary of Commerce (member of the In- Page 

stitution) V 

Harrington, John P viii, 54, 55 

Hartmann, Mrs. Elizabeth G . 132 

Hegeman, Miss Annie-May, gift 3 

Henderson, E. P vii, 22 

Herald, Earl S 12, 19 

Hess, Frank L vii 

Hess, H. H. (Drowned ancient islands of the Pacific Basin) 281 

Heyn, F. A, (The use of isotopes as tracers) 217 

Hightower, G. I viii 

Hildt, John McLean 119 

Hillis, George C. (Telegraphy — pony express to beam radio) 191 

Hobbs, Horton H 13 

Hoffmann, W. E vi, 20 

Holmberg, Allan 63 

Hoover, William H viii, 118, 119 

Hopkins, A. D vi 

Howard, L. O vi 

Howell, A. Brazier vi 

Hubricht, Leslie 13 

Hughes, JackT 71,72 

I 

lUg, P. L vi 

Insects, Some remarks on the influence of, on human welfare (Duncan) 339 

Institute of Social Anthropology viii, 62 

International Exchange Service viii, 83 

Foreign depositories of governmental documents 84 

Foreign exchange agencies 88 

Interparliamentary exchange of the ofBcial journal 86 

Packages sent and received 83 

Report 83 

Staflf viii 

Isotopes as tracers, The use of (Aten and Heyn) 217 

J 

James, Macgill, Assistant Director, National Gallery of Art viii, 24 

Jellison, W. L vi 

Johns, A. E. (Atomic energy) 177 

Johnson, David H vi, 20 

Johnston, Earl S viii, 120 

Judd, Neil M vi 

K 

Kainen, Jacob vn 

Keddy, J. L., Assistant Secretary of the Institution v 

Kellogg, Remington vi, 20 

KeUy, Isabel 63 

Kennedy, S. J 120 

Ketchum, Miriam B viii, 79 

KiUip, E. P vii 

Kivett, Marvin F , r '^^' '^^' "^^ 



INDEX 465 

i'age 

Knight, J. Brookes vii 

Kowal, R. J 130, 136 

Krauss, N. L. II 13 

Kress, Samuel H., President, National Gallery of Art viii, 24, 25 

Krieger, Herbert W vi, 16 

Krug, Julius A., Secretary of the Interior (member of the Institution) v 

L 

Leonard, Emery C vii, 20 

Lewton, F. L vii 

Librarian (Leila F. Clark) v, 155 

Library 152 

Accessions 152 

Report 152 

Summarized statistics 154 

Loebhch, A. R., Jr vii, 13, 14, 21 

Loening, Grover viii, 3, 124 

Lowe, Frank O viii 

Lundy, William E 135 

M 

MacCurdy, George Grant vi 

Macdonald, G. A. (The tsunami of April 1, 1946, in the Hawaiian Islands). 257 

Mann, William M., Director, National Zoological Park vi, viii, 117 

Manning, C.L viii 

Manship, Paul 5, 39, 40 

Marshall, George C., Secretary of State (member of the Institution) v, viii 

Marshall, William B vii 

Martin, G. J viii 

Martin, Theodore J 132 

Mather, Frank J 5, 39 

Maxon, W. R vii 

McBride, Harry A., Administrator, National Gallery of Art viii, 24 

McBryde, F. Webster 63 

McClure, F. A vii, 13 

McConnell, Samuel K., Jr, (regent of the Institution) v, 2 

McKenzie, Gordon F 73 

Mellon, Paul viii, 24, 25 

Members of the Institution v 

Middleswart, E. L 135, 137 

Migdalski, E. C 20 

Miller, Carl F 65, 73 

Miller, Gerrit S., Jr vi 

Miller, Robert R vi, 12, 13, 19 

Mitman, Carl W vii, 125 

Mohr, Carl O *... 12 

MoUusks and medicine in World War II (Abbott) 325 

Moore, J. Percy vi 

Moore, Lament 24 

Morrison, Joseph P. E vi, 13, 19 

Morrow, J. J 126 

Morton, Conrad V vii, 13, 19 

Mosquito control tests from the Arctic to the Tropics (Stage) 349 

Murray, A. C vii 

Myers, George H 39 



466 INDEX 

N Page 

National Air Museum viii, 3, 124 

Advisory Board viii, 3, 124 

Appropriations 125 

Report 124 

National Collection of Fine Arts viii, 38 

Catherine Walden Myer fund 40 

Henry Ward Ranger fund 42 

Library 42 

Loans accepted 40 

Loans returned 42 

Loans to other nauseums and organizations 41 

Report 38 

Smithsonian Art Commission 38 

Special exhibitions 43 

Withdrawals by owners 41 

National Gallery of Art viii, 24 

Acquisitions 29 

Acquisitions committee 25 

Appropriations 25 

Attendance 26 

Audit of private funds of the Gallery 37 

Care and maintenance of the building 26 

Curatorial department 35 

Custody of German silver 29 

Educational program 36 

Exchange of works of art 30 

Executive committee 24 

Exhibitions 32 

Finance committee- 25 

Gifts of decorative arts 30 

Gifts of paintings and sculpture , 29 

Gifts of prints and drawings 30 

Gifts to the Index of American Design 30 

Index of American Design 35 

Installation of additional air-conditioning equipment 26 

Inter- American Office 35 

Library 36 

Loan of works of art by the Gallery 32 

Loan of works of art to the Gallery 31 

Loaned works of art returned 31 

Officials viii, 24 

Organization and staff 24 

Other gifts 37 

Photographic department 36 

Publications 26 

Report 24 

Restoration and repair of works of art 36 

Traveling exhibitions 33 

Trustees viii, 24 

Various Gallery activities 34 



INDEX 467 

Page 

National Museum viii, 11 

Administrative staff viii 

Buildings and equipment 9 

Changes in organization 23 

Collections 11 

Exploration and field work 16 

Meetings and special exhibits 22 

Publications 22, 159 

Report 11 

Scientific staff vi 

National Zoological Park viii, 90 

Acquisition of specimens 93 

Animals in the Park June 30, 1947 99 

Appropriation 90 

Births and hatchings 98 

Depositors and donors and their gifts 94 

Exhibits 92 

Needs of the Zoo 90 

Report 91 

Staff viii 

Status of the collection 117 

Visitors 91 

Newman, M. T vi 

(The Ryukyu people: A cultural appraisal) 379 

Newman, Stanley S 63 

Nicholson, Scth B. (Large sunspots) 173 

Niinitz, Admiral Chester W 3, 124 

Nolan, T. B 21 

O 

Oberg, Kalervo 62 

Oohser, Paul H viii, 159 

Officials of the Institution v 

Oliver, L. L viii 

Oliver, S. H vii 

P 

Palmer, M. Helen viii, 79, 160 

Palmer, Theodore S vii 

Panama, Puzzle in (Bowman) 407 

Patterson, Robert P., Secretary of War (member of the Institution) v 

Pearce, F. L vii, 21, 22 

Perry, K. M vii 

Perry, S. H vii 

Perrygo, W. M 12,20 

Personnel officer (Bertha T. Carwithen) v 

Petroleum industry. New products of the (Field) 235 

Phillips, Duncan viii, 24, 25 

Photographic laboratory 8 

Pichetto, Stephen S 36 

Pierce, II. G 73 



468 INDEX 

Page 

Pierson, Donald 62 

Pittier, Henri vii 

Pitts, Grover C 134, 137 

Plutonium and other transuranium elements (Seaborg) 207 

Pope, John A viii, 52 

Postmaster General of the United States (Robert E. Hannegan, member of 

the Institution) v 

Powers, Maj. Gen. E. M viii, 3, 124 

Prescott, George W 139, 140 

President of the United States (Harry S. Truman, Presiding Officer ex 

officio of the Institution) v 

Price, Leonard viii 

Price, Waterhouse & Co 37 

Pride, Rear Adm. A. M viii, 3, 124 

Primary centers of civilization. The (Swan ton) 367 

Propeller and reaction-propelled airplane performances. Comparison of 

(Hamlin and Spenceley) 429 

Publications 22,27,79, 122, 127, 156 

American Historical Association 161 

Appropriation for printing and binding , 161 

Astrophysical Observatory 122 

Bureau of American Ethnology 79, 160 

Annual Report 160 

Institute of Social Anthropology 64, 160 

Canal Zone Biological Area 127 

Daughters of the American Revolution 161 

Freer Gallery of Art 160 

National Gallery of Art 27 

National Museum 22, 159 

Annual Report 159 

Bulletins 160 

Contributions from the United States National Herbarium 160 

Proceedings 159 

Report 156 

Smithsonian Institution 156 

Annual Reports 158 

Miscellaneous Collections 156 

Special publications 159 

Publications division, chief (L. E. Commerford) v 

Purchasing officer (Anthony W. Wilding) v 

Puzzle in Panama (Bowman) 407 

Q 

Quaintance, Charles F 133 

R 

Reberholt, B. O vii 

Reece, B. Carroll 2 

Reed, F. C vii 

Reeside, J. B., Jr vii 

Regents of the Institution v, 2 

Regnier, A. V., Jr 134 

Rehder, Harald A . vi 

Report of the Secretary of the Institution 1 

777488—48 -33 



INDEX 469 

Page 

Retirement system 7 

Rice, Arthur P vi 

Riddell, Francis A 76, 77 

Riddell, Harry C 76 

Ripley, S. Dillon 20 

River Basin Surveys viii, 64 

Roberts, Frank H. H., Jr viii, 53, 54, 60, 65 

Roebling, John A., gift 3, 120 

Rohwer, S. A vi 

Romero, Javier 18 

Rowe, John H 63 

Russell, J. Townsend vi 

Ryukyu people. The : A cultural appraisal (Newman and Eng) 379 

S 

Sallada, Rear Adm. H. B 3, 124 

Schaller, W. T vii 

Schmitt, Waldo L vi 

Schneirla, T. C 128, 136 

Schultz, Leonard P vi, 12,19 

(The biology of Bikini Atoll, with special reference to the fishes) 301 

Schwartz, Benjamin vi 

Schwellenbach, Lewis B., Secretary of Labor (member of the Institution).. v 

Scientific staff vi 

Seaborg, Glenn T. (Plutonium and other transuranium elements) 207 

Searle, Mrs. Harriet Richardson vi 

Secretary of Agriculture (Clinton P. Anderson, member of the Institution). v 
Secretary of Commerce (William Averell Harriman, member of the Institu- 
tion) V 

Secretary of the Interior (Julius A. Krug, member of the Institution) v 

Secretary of Labor (Levds B. Schwellenbach, member of the Institution).. v 

Secretary of the Navy (James Forrestal, member of the Institution) v 

Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution (Alexander Wetmore).. v, viii, 3, 24, 25 
Secretary of State (George C. Marshall, member of the Institution)., v, viii, 24 
Secretary of the Treasury (John W. Snyder, member of the Institu- 
tion) V, viii, 24 

Secretary of War (Robert P. Patterson, member of the Institution) v 

Setzler, Frank M vi 

Shepard, Donald D 24 

Shepard, F. P. (The tsunami of April 1, 1946, in the Hawaiian Islands) 257 

Shideler, William H 21 

Shoemaker, C. R vii 

Shook, Edwin 60 

Silicones — a new continent in the world of chemistry (Bass) 229 

Sinclair, Charles C viii 

Sirlouis, J. Russell viii 

Skutch, Alexander F 139 

Smith, Clarence E 76, 77 

Smith, Foster D 20 

Smith, R. E 60 

Smithsonian Art Commission 5, 38 

Snyder, John W., Secretary of the Treasury (member of the Institution) . v, viii, 25 
Snyder, Thomas E 133, 142 



470 INDEX 

Page 

Soper, C. C 132 

Spaatz, Geo. Carl 3, 124 

Spence, T. H 57 

Spenceley, F. (Comparison of propeller and reaction-propelled airplane 

performances) 429 

Stage, H. H. (Mosquito control tests from the Arctic to the Tropics) 349 

Stanton, T. W vii 

Stephenson, Robert L 75 

Sternberg, G. F 22 

Stevenson, John A vii 

Steward, Julian H 62 

Stewart, Leo L 73 

Stewart, T. Dale vi, 17 

Stirling, M. W. (Chief, Bureau of American Ethnology) viii, 53, 82 

Stout, William B viii, 3. 124 

Sunspots, Large (Nicholson) 173 

Swallen, Jason R__ vii, 13 

Svv^anton, John R viii 

(The primary centers of civilization) 367 

Swingle, W. T vii 

T 

Talbert, G. D viii 

Taylor, Frank A . vii 

Taylor, W. W., Jr vi 

Telegraphy — pony express to beam radio (Hillis) 191 

Tolman, Ruel P., Director, National Collection of Fine Arts 39,44 

Treasurer of the Institution (Nicholas W. Dorsey) v 

True, Webster P., chief, editorial division . v, 161 

Truman, Harry S., President of the United States (Presiding Officer ex 

officio of the Institution) v 

Trust Funds' Employees included under Federal retirement system 7 

Tschopik, Harry, Jr 63 

Tsunami, The, of April 1, 1946, in the Hawaiian Islands (Macdonald, 

Shepard, and Cox) 257 

Tucker, Mae W 80 

V 

Vaughan, T. W --- vii 

Vesey-FitzGerald, Brian (The senses of bats) 317 

Vice President of the United States (member of the Institution) _ — v 

Vinson, Fred M., Chief Justice of the United States (Chancellor of the 

Institution) v, viii, 2, 24 

Visitors 8 

Freer Gallery of Art 50 

National Gallery of Art 26 

National Zoological Park 91 

Vorys, John M. (regent of the Institution) v, 2 

Voth, Paul D 140 

W 

Walcott, Frederic C. (regent of the Institution) v, 2 

Walker, Egbert H vii 



INDEX 471 

Page 

Walker, Ernest P viii 

Walker, John, Chief Curator, National Gallery of Art viii, 24 

Watkins, W. N vii 

Watt, Frank H 75 

Wedderburn, A. J., Jr vii 

Wcdsl, Waldo R vi, 18, 66, 67, 69 

Weintraub, Robert L viii 

Wenley, Archibald B., Director, Freer Gallery of Art viii, 39, 52 

West, Robert C 63 

Wetmore, Alexander, Secretary of the Institution v, vi, viii, 

3, 5, 12, 20, 23, 25, 39, 40, 119, 124, 125, 127, 132 

Wheat, Joe Ben 75 

White, Theodore E 68, 72, 73 

AVhite, Wallace H., Jr. (regent of the Institution) v, 2 

Whitebread, Charles vii 

Wilding, Anthony W., purchasing officer v, viii 

Willey, Gordon R viii, 60, 61 

Williams, D, G viii 

Wilson, Mre. M. S vi 

V/indhorst, M. M vii 

Wittry, Warren L 73 

Woodworth, Robert N 140 

Y 

Yeager, William L 169 

Young, Frank M 12 

Z 

Zetek, James, Resident Manager, Canal Zone Biological Area viii, 127, 151 

o 



SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION LIBRARIES 





3 9088 01421 7533 




