,.y^ 



yy. 



,^ 



^' 



-y 



:» • 






'*w-' 



.^V-i^"5» 



J 



/- 



^ 



*• % 



:j 



^>^ % ' ■ ml . 



M- '•j» 



40Tn CoxCrRESS, ) HOUSE OF EEPRESENTATIVES. i Ex. Doc. 
'Sd iSesdon. \ \ ^o. 83. 



ANNUAL REPORT 



OF 



THE BOARD OF REGENTS 



SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 



SHOVVIXG THE 



OPERATIOi^S, EXPENDITURES, AND CONDITION OF THE 
INSTITUTION FOR THE YEAR 18G8. 



WASHINGTON: 

GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE. 
180 9. 



IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES. 

March J, 1869. 

Resolved, That five thousand copies of the report of the Smithsonian Institution for the 
year eighteen hundred and sixty-eight be printed — three thousand for the use of the Senate, 
and two thousand for the Institution ; and that said report be stereotyped: Provided, That 
the aggregate number of pages of said report shall not exceed four hundred and fifty, with- 
out illustrations, except those furnished by the Institution. 



IN THE HOUSE OF EEPEESENTATIVES. 

February 27, 1869. 

Eesolvcd, That there be printed five thousand extra copies of the report of the Smithsonian 
Institution — three thousand for the use of the House, and two thousand for the Institution—- 
the same to be stereotyped at the expense heretofore provided for. 



LETTER 



FROM THE 

SECRETARY OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 

TRANSMITTING 

The unnual rcjwrt of the Smithsonian Instittition for the year 1868. 



February ]3, 1809. — Laid on the table and ordered to be printed. 



Smithsonian Institution, 

Washington^ February 3, 18G9. 
Sm: In behalf of the Board of Eegeiits I have the liouor to submit to 
the Congress of the United States the annual report of the operations, 
expenditures, and condition of the Smithsonian lustitutiou for the year 
18G8. 

I have the honor to be, very respectfully, your obedient servant, 

JOSEPH HENEY, 
Secretary Smithsonian Institution, 
Hon. B. F. Wade, 

President of the Senate. 
Hon. Schuyler Colfax, 

Speal^er of the House of Representatives. 



MNUAl REPORT OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS 



SMITHSOIIAN INSTITUTION 



THE OPERATIONS, EXPENDITUEES, AND CONDITION OF THE INSTITUTION 

FOR THE YEAR ItiGS. 



To the Senate and Souse of Representatives : 

In obetlicDce to the act of Congress of August 10, 184G, establishing 
the Smithsonian Institution, the undersigned, in behalf of the Kegents, 
submit to Congress, as a report of the operations, expenditures, and con- 
dition of the luvStitution, the following documents: 

1. The Annual Eeport of the Secretary, giving an account of the ope- 
rations of the Institution during the year 1868. 

2. Eeport of the Executive Committee. 

3. Proceedings of the Board of Eegents. 

4. Appendix. 

Eespectfully submitted. 

S. P. CHASE, Cliancellor. 
JOSEPH HENEY, Secretary. 



OFFICEES OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 

Fedruarv, 1869. 

ANDREW JOFTNSON, ex officio Presiding Officer of the lu&titution. 

SALMON P. CHASE, Cbaucellor of the Institution. 

JOSEPH HENRY, Secretary of the Institution. 

SPENCER F. BAIRD, Assistant Secretary. 

WILLIAM J. RHEES, Chief Clerk. 

RICHARD DELAFIELD, ^ 

PETER PARKER, ) Executive Comro,Ut«ie. 

JOHN MACLEAN, J 



EEGENTS OF THE INSTITUTION. 



B. F. WADE, Vice-President of the United States, {pro tempore.) 

S. P. CHASE, Chief Justice of the United States. 

S. J. BO WEN, Mayor of the City of Washington, 

L. TRUMBULL, member of the Senate of the United States. 

GARRETT DAVIS, member of the Senate of the United States. 

W. P. FESSENDEN, member of the Senate of the United States. 

J. A. GARFIELD, member of the House of Representatives. 

L. P. POLAND, member of the House of Representatives. 

J. V. L. PRUYN, member of the House of Representatives. 

W. B. ASTOR, citizen of New York. 

T. D. WOOLSEY, citizen of Connecticut. 

L. AGASSIZ, citizen of Massachusetts. 

JOHN MACLEAN, citizen of New Jersey. 

RICHARD DELAFIELD, citizen of Wasliington. 

PETER PARKER, citizen of Washington. 



MEMBERS EX OFFICIO OF THE INSTITUTION. 



ANDREW JOHNSON, President of the United States. 

B. F. WADE, Vice-President of the United States, (pro tempore.) 

W. H. SEWARD, Secretary of State. 

H. Mcculloch, secretary of the Treasury. 

JOHN M. SCHOFIELD, Secretary of War. 

G. WELLES, Secretary of the Navy. 

A. W. RANDALL, Postmaster General. 

WM. M. EVARTS, Attorney Generah 

S. P. CHASE, Chief Justice of the United States. 

ELISHA FOOTE, Commissioner of Patents. 

S. J. BOWEN, Mayor of the City of Washington. 



HONOr.ARY MEMBER. 



O. H. BROWNING, Secretary of the Interior, {ex officio.) 



PROGRAMME OF ORGANIZATION 



SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 



[PEESENTED IN THE FIRST ANNUAL REPORT OF THE SECRETARY, AND 
. ADOPTED BY THE BOARD OF REGENTS, DECEMBER i:^, 1847.] 



INTEODUCTION. 



General considerations whicji sliould serve as a guide in adoptino a Plan of 

Organization. 

1. Will of Sjitthson. The property is bequeathed to the United 
States of America, "to found at Washington, under the name of the 
Smithsonian Institution, an establishment fortlie increase and diffu- 
sion of knowledge among- men." 

2. The bequest is for the benefit of mankind. The government of the 
United States is merely a trustee to carr^' out the design of the testator. 

3. The Institution is not a national establishment, as is frequently sup- 
posed, but the establishment of an individual, and is to bear and x>erpet- 
uate his name. 

4. The objects of the Institution are, 1st, to increase, and, 2d, to diffuse 
knowledge among men. 

5. These two objects should not be confounded with one another. The 
first is to enlarge the existing stock of knowledge by the addition of new 
truths; and the second, to disseminate knowledge, thus increased, among 
men. 

G. The will makes no restriction in fiivor of any particular kind of 
knowledge; hence all branches are entitled to a share of attention. 

7. Knov/ledge can be increased by dilferent methods of facilitating 
and ]n"omoting the discovery of new truths; and can be most extensively 
diffused among nu'n by means of the press. 

8. To effect the greatest amount of good, the organization should bo 
such as to enable the Institution to produce results, in the way of increas- 
ing and diffusing knowledge, which cannot be prodnced either at all or 
so efficiently by the existing institutions in our country. 

9. The organization should also be such as can be adopted provision- 
ally; can be easily reduced to practice; receive modifications, or be aban- 
doned, in whole or in part, without a sacrifice of the funds. 

10. In order to comi)ensate, in some measure, for the loss of time 
occasioned by the delay of eight years in establishing the Institution, a 
considerable portion of the interest which has accrued should be added 
to the i)rincipal. 

11. In proi)ortion to the wide field of knowledge to be cultivated, the 
funds are small. Economy should, therefore, be consulted in tlie con- 
struction of the building J and not only the first cost of the edifice should 



8 PEOGEA^klME OF OEGATaZATIOX. 

be considered, but also the continual expense of keeping it in repair, 
and of the support of the establishnieut necessarily connected with it. 
There should also be but few individuals i>ermanently supported by the 
Institution. 

12. The plan and dimensions of the building should be determined by 
the plan of the organization, and not the converse. 

13. It should be recollected that mankind in general are to be bene- 
fited by the bequest, and that, theretore, all unnecessary exijeuditure on 
local objects vrouid be a perversion of the trust. 

14. Besides the foregoing considerations, deduced immediately from 
the wiU of Smithson, regard must be had to certain requirements of the 
act of Congress establishing the Institution. These are, a library, a 
museum, and a gallery of art, with a builcUng on a liberal scale to con- 
tain them. 

SECTIOX I. 

Plan of organization of tlw Institution in accordance icith the foregoing 
deductions from the icill of Smithson. 

To rXCEEASE EZN'OTTLEDGE. It is propOSCd — 

1. To stimulate men of talent to make original researches, by offering 
suitable rewards for memoirs containing new truths; and, 

2. To appropriate annually a portion of the income for particular 
researches, under the direction of suitable persons. 

To DUTirsE e:n*owxedge. It is proposed — 

1. To publish a series of periodical reports on the progTCSs of the dif- 
ferent branches of knowledge; and, 

2. To publish occasionally separate treatises on subjects of general 
interest. 

DETAILS OF THE FLAX TO FN'OKEASE KNOWLEDGE. 
I. By stimulating researches. 

1. Facilities afforded for the production of original memoirs on all 
branches of knowledge. 

2. The memoirs thus obtained to be published in a series of volumes, 
in a quarto form, and entitled Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge. 

3. No memoir on subjects of physical science to be accepted for pub- 
lication which does not furnish a positive addition to human knowledge, 
resting on original research; and all unverified speculations to be re- 
jected. 

4. Each memoir presented to the Institution to be submitted for 
examination to a commission of persons of reputation for learning in the 
branch to which the memoir i:)ertains; and to be accepted for publica- 
tion only in case the report of this commission is favorable. 

5. The commission to be chosen by the ofiicers of the Institution, and 
the name oi the author, as far as practicable, concealed, unless a favora- 
ble decision is made. 

6. The volumes of the memoirs to be exchanged for the transactions 
of literary and scientific societies, and copies to be given to all the col- 
leges and principal libraries in this country. One part of the remaining 
copies may be offered for sale, and the other carefully preserved, to foiin 
comx)iete sets of the Vvork, to sui>ply the demand from new institutions. 



PR0GKA5IME OF ORGANIZATION. d 

7. An abstract, or pojiular account, of tiie contents of these memoirs 
to be {liven to the public through the annual report of the llegents to 
Congress. 

II. By ai)propriatinci a part of the income, annvalhj, to special objects oj 
research, under the direction of suitable j)ersons. 

1. The objects and the amount appropriated, to be recommended by 
counsellors of the Institution. 

2. Appropriations in different years to different objects; so that in 
course of time each branch of knowledge may receive a share. 

0. The results obtained from these a])propriations to be published, 
with the memoirs before mentioned, in the volumes of the Smithsonian 
Contributions to Knowledge. 

4. Examples of objects for which appropriations may be made. 

(1.) System of extended meteorological observations for solving the 
problem of American storms. 

(!'.) Explorations in descriptive natural history, and geological, mag- 
netical, and toi)Ographical suiveys, to collect materials for the formation 
of a Physical Atia^ of the United States. 

(3.) Solution of experimental problems, such as a new determination 
of the weight of the earth, of the velocity of electricity, and of light ; 
jChemical analyses of soils and i)lants; collection and publication of scien- 
tilic facts accunudated in the offices of government. 

(4.) Institution of statistical inquiries with reference to physi(*al, 
moral, an<l politicid sui>Jects. 

(5.) Ilistoiical researches, and accurate surveys of places celebrated in 
American history. 

(0.) Ethnological researches, particularly with reference to the differ- 
ent races of men in North America; also, explorations and accurate sur- 
veys of the mounds and other remains of the ancient i)eople of our 
country. 

DETAILS OF THE PLAN FOR DIFFUSING KNOWLEDGE. 

I. Btj the publication of a series of reports, (jiving an acconnt of the veni dis 
coceries in science, and of the changes made from year to year in all 
branches of Jcnotvledye not strictly professional. 

1. These reports wdl diffuse a kind of knowledge generally interest- 
ing, but which, at ])resent, is inaccessible to the public. Some of the 
reports may be published annually, others at longer intervals, as the 
income of the Institution or the changes in the branches of knowledge 
uuiy indicate. 

2. Tlu^ rei)orts are to be ])repared by collaborators eminent in the dif- 
ferent bi'auches of knowledge. 

3. Each collaborator to be furnished with the journals and i»ublica- 
tions, domestic and foieign, necessary to the compilation of his rc>port; 
to be paid a certain sum for his labors, and to be named on the title- 
Bage of the report. 

4. Tlie reports to be ])ublish('d in separate parts, so that ix'rsous iuter- 
st'Hl in a i)aiticular branch can procure the i)arts relating (o it wiihout 

l)urchasing the w hole. 

5. These rci)orts may be presented to Congress, for partial distribu- 
tion, the remaining copies to be given to literary and scientific iustifcu- 
tions, and sold to individuals for a moderate price. 



10 PROGRAMME OF ORGANIZATION. 

The following are some of the subjects which may be embraced in the 
reports: 

I. PHYSICAL CLASS. 

1. Physics, including astronomy, natural philosophy, chemistry, and 
meteorology. 

2. Natm\al history, including botany, zoology, geology, &c. 

3. Agiiculture. 

4. Aijplication of science to arts. 

IL MORAL AND POLITICAL CLASS. 

5. Ethnology, including particular history, comparative philology, 
antiqaities, &c. 

0. Statistics and political economy. 

7. Mental and moral philosophy. 

8. A survey of the political events of the world; penal reform, &c. 

III. LITERATURE AND THE FINE ARTS. 

9. Modern literature. 

10. The line arts, and their application to the useful arts. 

11. Bibliography. 

lU. Obituary notices of distinguished individuals. I 

II. By the publication of separate treatises on subjects of (jencral interest. 

1. These treatises may occasionally consist of valuable memoirs trans- 
lated from foreign languages, or of articles prepared under the direction 
of the Institution, or procured by offering premiums for the best exposi- 
tion of a given subject. 

2. The treatises should, in all cases, be submitted to a commission of 
competent judges previous to their publication. 

3. As examples of these treatises, expositions may be obtained of the 
present state of the several branches of knowledge mentioned in the 
table of rei)orts. 

SECTIOI^ IL 

Plan of organization^ in accordance with the terms of the resolutions of the 
Board of Regents providing for the two modes of increasing and diffusing 
Icuouiedge. 

1. The act of Congress establishing the Institution contemplated the 
formation of a library and a museum ; and the Board of Eegeuts, includ- 
ing these objects in'the plan of organization, resolved to divide the in- 
come into two equal parts. 

2. One part to be appropriated to increase and diffuse knowledge 
by means of publications and researches, agreeably to the scheme before 
given. The other part to be appropriated to the formation of a library 
and a collection of objects of nature and of art. 

3. These two plans are not incompatible with one another. 

4. To carry out the plan before described, a library ^vili be required, 
consisting, 1st, of a complete collection of the transactions and proceed- 
ings of ail tlie learned societies in the world ; 2d, of the more important 
current periodical publications, and other works necessary in preparing 
the periodical reports. 



PKOGRAilME OF ORGANIZATIOX. 11 

5. Tlie Institution sliould make special collections, particularly of 
objects to illustrate and verify its own publications. 

G. Also, a collection of instruments of research in all branches of ex- 
l)erimental science. 

7. A\ith reference to the collection of books, other than those men- 
tioned above, cataloji'ues of all the different Hbraries hi the United States 
should be ])rocured, in order that the valuable books first purchased may 
oe such as are not to be found \n the United States. 

8. Also, catalogues of memoirs, and of books and other materials, 
should be collected for rendering- the Institution a centre of bibliograph- 
ical knowledge, whence the student may be directed to any work which 
he may require. 

9. It is bebeved that the collections in natural history will increase by 
donation as rapidly as the income of the Institution can make provision 
for their reception, and, therefore, it will seldom be necessary to pur- 
chase articles of this kind. 

10. Attempts should be made to procure for the gallery of art casts 
of the most celebrated articles of ancient and modern sculpture. 

11. The arts may be encouraged by providing a room, free of expense, 
for the exhibition of the objects of the Art- Union and other similar 
societies. 

12. A small appropriation should annually be made for models of an- 
tiquities, such as those of the remains of ancient temi>les, &c. 

13. For the present, or until the building is fully completed, besides 
the Secretary, no permanent assistant will be required, except one, to act 
as librarian. 

11. The Secretary, by the law of Congress, is alone responsible to the 
Eegents. He shall take charge of the building and property, keep a. 
record of proceedings, discharge the duties of librarian and keeper of 
the museum, and may, with the consent of the Eegents, employ assist- 
ants. 

15. The Secretary and his assistants, during the session of Congress, 
will be required to illustrate new discoveries in science, and to exhibit 
new objects of art. Distinguished individuals should also be invited to 
give lectures on subjects of general interest. 



This ]irogramme, which was at first adopted provisionally, has become 
the settled policy of the Institution. The only material change is that 
expressed by the following resolutions, adoi)ted January 15, 1S55, viz: 

Resolved, That the 7th resolution passed by the Board of Eegents, on 
the 20tli of January, 1817, requiring an equal division of tlie income 
between the active operations and the nuisenm and library, when the 
buildings are completed, be, and it is hereby, rei)ealed. 

Besolved, That hereafter the annual appropriations shall be appor- 
tioned specifically among the dilferent objects and operations of the 
Institution, in such manner as may, in the judgment of the Eegents, bo 
necessary and proper for each, ac<;ording to its intrinsic importance and 
a compliance in good faith with the law. 



EEPOET 

OF 



PROFESSOR HENRY, SECRETARY OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 



1868. 



To the Board of Regents : 

Gentlemen: NotliiDg has occurred during the past year of a cliarac- 
ter demauding the special action of the Board. Indeed, the policy of the 
Institution originally adopted has become so firmly settled and so widely 
known, as well as properly appreciated, that few difficulties are now 
likely to present themselves in the administration of the trust which do 
not find a solution in some precedent in the experience of the past. The 
funds appropriated at the last session have been devoted to the different 
objects for which they were designated, and the several classes of opera- 
tions which were inaugurated at the commencement of the Institution 
have been prosecuted with as much efficiency as the means at disposal 
would permit. From the first there has been no want of unoccupied 
fields inviting attention, and well adapted with judicious cultivation to 
yield a plentiful harvest of additions to science. Indeed, the only sub- 
ject of regret suggested by a review of the past, or a survey of the pres- 
ent, is the application of so large a portion of the income to objects which, 
though in most cases important in themselves, are not, as is now gener- 
ally conceded, strictly reconcilable either with the scope or the terms of 
the endowment. The guardians of the Institution are not, however, 
responsible for these expenditiu-es, which had their origin in a general mis- 
conception of the import of the bequest at the time when Congress enacted 
the law organizing the Institution. On the contrary, the administration 
has been such as to correct, as far as possible, the errors above mentioned, 
and to present to the world an example worthy of imitation in the manage- 
ment of other establishments founded on trust funds. The directors have 
ever been deeply impressed with a sense of the importance of the trust 
committed to their charge, not only in consideration of the good which 
might directly result from it, but also on account of the influence wliich 
so cons]>icuous, and in many respects so original an enterprise, could not 
fail to have upon the world. Man is an imitative being, and among the 
many individuals in this country who have accumulated i)rincely fortunes 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 13 

by the oncrg-etic exercise of native talents, there are probably not a few 
who only need the assurance of a successful precedent to induce them 
to emulate the liberality of Smithson in the endowment of other institu- 
tions for the advancement of knowledge. 

At the last session of the board it was resolved that a memorial should . 
be presented to Congress, setting forth the large expenditure to which 
the Institution had been subjected by reason of the accomnuxlatiou and 
maintenance of the National Museum, and asking that the usual ai>pro- 
I)riation of $4,000 which had been made on account of these objects 
might be increased to $10,000; also that $25,000 miglit be appropri- 
ated towards fitting up the large room in the second story of the 
main building for the better exhibition of the government collections. 
In accordance with this resolution the petition was prepared, signed by 
the Chancellor and Secretary of the Institution, and presented to the 
House of Eepresentatives by General Garfield, one of the regents. It was 
referred to the Committee on Appropriations, and although forcibly and 
eloquently' advocated by the members of the Board of Regents belonging 
to the House, it was not granted, aud only the usual appropriation of 
$4,000 was made. The reasonableness of this petition, which I doubt 
*not under a better condition of the national finances will meet with a 
more favorable reception, must be manifest when it is considered that 
$4,000 is the sum which the maintenance of the museum cost the gov- 
ernment when it was under the charge of the Patent Oflice, and that 
since its removal to the Institution it has been enlarged to threefold its 
previous size, while the money has been depreciated to one-half its former 
value; and furthermore, that the amount expen<led since the tire in 
18C5, for the reconstruction of the building and sup])ly of furniture, is 
over $ 140,000, the greater part of which was for the accommodation of the 
National Museum. This large sum was rendered necessary by tlie pecu- 
liar character of the architecture, the cost of fire-proof materials, and 
the high price of labor. Of the above amount, more than $20,000 was 
defrayed from the annual income of last year, and after this reduction 
of the resources it was scarcely to be expected that the oi)erations of 
the Institution could be carried on with as much efiiciency as had been 
the case iu years previous to the disaster which eutailed ou it this heavy 
incidental exi)eiiditure. Yet we vent ure to hope that the exposition given 
in the following ])arts of this report will show the results attained to 
have been little inferior in value or extentto those of any ])rece(liugyear. 

It will a])pearfrom the re])ort of the Executive Committee, tliat notwith- 
standiiig the large draughts which have been made upon the funds on 
account of the building, they are still in a highly prosperous condition. 
Thus', Avhile at the beginning of the year 1SG8 there was a balance in the 
treasury of about $ll,Oi)l), with outstanding liabilities contracted ])rin- 
cipally for rei^airs and reconstruction to the amouut of $22,000 ; on the 
other hand, at the beginning of 1.S09, there is a disposable balance of 



14 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

$10,352, witli bills falling due to tlie ainoiuit of not more tLan $3,000. 
The funds are therefore in a better condition at present than tliey were 
a year ago by upwards of $18,000. The Institution having paid all 
indebtedness incurred by repairs on the building, could to day wind up 
its aftairs not only without debt, but with the capital exhibited in the 
following statement : 

The whole bequest of Smithson, in United States treasury. . $511,379 63 
Additions from savings, &c., in United States treasury... 108,020 37 

Virginia State stock, $72,700, valued at 40,000 00 

Cash on hand 7,000 00 



Total capital 007,000 00 



While every part of the original programme has been rigidly carried 
out, the large increase in the capital exhibited in the foregoing state- 
ment may justly be claimed as the result of frugal management and 
a judicious investment of the interest annually accruing. 

At the commencement of operations definite lines of policy were 
adopted, the object of which was to insure the expenditure of the income 
in such a manner as most eifectually to realize the conceptions of the 
founder in his generous purpose of promoting the "increase and diffusion 
of knowledge among men." Of the iirinciples judged conducive to this 
end an important one was embodied in the resolution to co-operate, 
as far as possible, with individuals and institutions engaged in the 
same work, especially with those in the city of Washington. An obvious 
corollary of this was the determination to make no appropriation of the 
funds to the furtherance or support of any object which could be accom- 
plished as well by other instrumentality. This policy has been frequently 
referred to in previous reports under the concisely expressed motto, 
" co-operation not monopoly." 

It was in the spirit of this policy that the books of the Institution 
were last year incori>orated with those of Congress and results produced 
which fully justify the measure as well as illustrate the importance of 
the j)rinciple ; for, while by this union under one system and superintend- 
ence a library has been formed worth}- the National Capital, the capacity 
of the Smithsonian fund to advance knowledge has been materially 
increased. In pursuance of the same policy another important arrange- 
ment has been made during the past year. I refer to the transfer of the 
herbarium of the Institution to the care of the Department of Agriculture. 
This herbarium consists of from 15,000 to 20,000 specimens from all parts 
of the world, properly classified and labeled. It is the result, in the line of 
botany, of the various expeditions of the government and of the special 
explorations of the Institution. The collections have from the first been, 
in the charge of Dr. Gray and Dr. Torrey — the two most eminent botan- 
ists in this country — who have scientifically arranged them and formed 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 15 

the duplicates into sets for distribution. Dr. Gray has, however, left the 
country for an absence of some years in Europe, and Dr. Torvey, who 
has devoted at least two entire years of his life to these specimens, is 
lUTuble longer to continue this gratuitous and disinterested service on 
account of the more imperious duties of his oflicial position, and 
consequently intimated to us that the botanical ^)ecimens would have 
to be removed from Columbia College, New York, where they have 
been deposited under his care. To render such a collection of any 
practical use, and to preserve the plants from decay, the constant super- 
intendence of a competent botanist is obviously indispensable ; but as 
the appropriation hitherto made by Congress is far too meagre to meet 
the cost of the present sujiport of the museum it was necessary to seek 
some other means of providing for these plants. Now, as the Agricid- 
tural Department requires for continual reference such a collection of 
plants, and had begun to gather one ; and as, also, in the course of its in- 
vestigations it has need of the services of a practical botanist, nothing- 
could seem more advisable than to unite tlie two collections. By this 
arrangement not only are the series of plants themselves rendered more per- 
fect and more readily accessible, but the Institution is in the same degree 
relieved of the burden imposed upon it in the sui>port of a multifarious 
and rapidly increasing museum. Tlie transfer, however, is made with 
the understanding that the superintending botanist shall be approved 
by the Institution, that the collection shall be accessible to the public 
for practical or educational purposes, and to the Institution for scientiiic 
investigation or for supplying any information that may be asked for by 
its correspondents in regard to the names and character of plants. It 
is further stipulated that due credit shall be given to the Institution in the 
publications of the department for the deposit of the original specimens 
as well as for the additions which from time to time may be made to them 
by the Institution. 

Agreeably to the policy above mentioned, the Institution has also entered 
into an arrangement with the medical department of the United States 
army by which it was thought nuitual convenience and harmonious co-op- 
eration would be promoted. By this arrangement the Institution transfers 
to the museum in charge of the Surgeon General its large collection of 
human crania, and also all its specimens pertaining to anatomy, physi- 
ology, medicine, and surgery', wliile it takes, in return, from the medical 
museum all the collections Miiich more properly relate to ethnology. 
It will be seen that the object kept constantly in view in these trans- 
actions is to render the various collections in Washington, which have 
been made under the direction of the government and tin; Institution, 
definite parts of one harmonious system, and at the same time-to avoid 
the loss of labor and of means, in dujnicating and preserving articles of 
a similar character in separate establishments. 

The disposition, which up to this time, has been made of the plants 
illustrates the plan which was adopted, from the iirst, in order to pro- 



16 EEPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

duce tlie most important results witli a given expenditure of means. 
The funds of the Institution, it was seen, were not sufficient to carry 
out all the objects contemplated in the original law of organization. To 
snstaiu properly a national museum and render it an efficient means of 
popular instruction would require a number of professors of the differ- 
ent branches into which natural history has been divided. But, as the 
income was manifestly insufficient for this purpose, the plan was adopted 
of calling in, as far as possible, the aid of individual collaborators and 
of other institutions. Agreeably to this principle of action the plants 
were given in charge, as has been stated, to Doctors Gray and Tor- 
rey for naming and arrangement into sets, and to the latter gentleman 
for safe kee])ing until such time as means could be provided for their 
maintenance in Washington. 

For the same reason as that just given, all the type specimens of in- 
sects which have been collected by the Institution have been divided 
among collaborators for study and arrangement, to be reclaimed at any 
time when required by the Institution. Nor is this system of co-operation 
confined to tliis country, for w^hile through its exchanges the Institution 
holds friendly correspondence with all the principal scientific and literary 
establishments of the Old World, witli a number of them it maintains 
relations of mutnal co-operation in the way of affording assistance by 
sending rare specimens and furnishing required data in cases of special 
investigations. 

While the result of the policy which has been adopted is the imme- 
diate advancement of knowledge, it tends incidentally to render the 
seat of government a center of scientific activity, which enlarges its 
reputation and extends its influence. Indeed, though Washington has 
generally been regarded as almost exclusively a focus of political 
agitation, it in reality contains a greater number of persons connected 
with scientific operations, and interested in intellectual pursuits, than 
any other city of equal population in this country. In illustration of 
this remark I need only mention the officers of the Engineer Department, 
of the Coast Survey, of the Light-house Board, of the Ordnance Bureau, 
of the army and the navy, of the Patent Office, and of the Agricultural 
Department; also the computors of the Nautical Almanac, the profes- 
sors of the National Observatory, and those of three colleges, three 
medical schools, a law school, and of an institution for the deaf and 
dumb ; besides the the directors and assistants of the asylum for the 
insane, two hospitals, and of the various bureaus of the government, 
the greater part of whom are men of more than ordinary culture, on 
many of whom the Institution can call for assistance and co-operation. 

Publications.— The Smithsonian publications, as has been frequently 
stated before, are of three classes : the Contributions to Knowledge, the 



KKPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 17 

Miscellaueous Collections, and tlio Aiinuul Kcports. The lirst consists of 
memoirs containing positive additions to science resting on original 
research, and which are principally the result of investigations to whicli 
the institution has in some way rendered assistance. In all cases ihe 
memoirs are submitted to a commission for critical examination, and 
only accepted for publication on a fjivorable report. Tlie Miscellaiteous 
Collections are chielly composed of works intended to faciiitate the 
study of certain branches of natural history or of meteorology, and 
are designed especially to induce individuals to engage in studies as 
si)ecialties, to which in leisure moments their thoughts may recar, and 
l)y observations and collections in relation to which they may n-ot only 
contribute to their own pleasure but also advance the cause of science.. 
The Annual Keports are [)ublished at the expense of the go^i•ernment,. 
with the exception of the illustrations, which are furnished by the Insti- 
tution. Up to the year 1851 these reports were published in ai pamphlet 
form, and contained merely an account of the operations of tlie Institu- 
tion for the year; but since that date an appendix ha.s been added, prin- 
cipally consisting of translations, from foreign journals, of articles not 
accessible to the English reader, but of interest to our meteorological, 
observers, and to persons generally who are interested in the progress. 
of knowledge. AVitli the addition of this appendix each rei^ort forms a 
volume of between 101) and r>()() pages, bound in boards,, with an cloth, 
cover. The first volume of this series contains a reprint of all the pre- 
vious reports of the Secretary, the will of Saiithson, and tlte enactments 
of Congress in regard to the bequest, and hence in the full set of these^ 
reports a continuous history of the Institution is given from its organisa- 
tion to the present time. The whole number of volumes,, including the 
present, is fifteen; of these it is to be regretted that the gi^eater part of the- 
extra numbers were destroyed in the fire of 18G5. AH the reports- 
since 18G2 have been stereotyped, and the plates of these have been, 
preserved. 

During the past year the loch volume of the Smithsonian Contribu- 
tions to Knowledge has been published, and, in conformity with the rules 
adopted, has been distributed to institutions in this country and abroad,. 
The volume contains 004 pages, and is illustrated with 43 woodcuta 
and 17 plates. The several articles contained in this volume which 
were i)ublished separately, and an account of which Ava.^> given in ])ro- 
vious rei)orts, are as follows : 

1. An investigation of the Orbit of Neptune, with general tables of 
its motion, by Professor Simon IS^ewcomb. 

L*. On the fresh-water glacial drift of the uortkv\'estern States, by 
Charles Whittlesey. 

3. Geological researches in China, Mongolia, and Japan, during the 
years 18G2 to 18G5, by liaphael Pumpelly. 

4. Piiysical observations in the Arctic seas, by Isaac I. Hayes, M. D. 
Another publication during the year, which is intended to form a part 

2s 



18 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

of tlie l(>tli Yolniue of the Contributions, is entitled ''Results of 
meteorological observations at Marietta, Ohio, between 1826 and lcS5D," 
by Dr. S. P. Hildreth. An account of tbis was given in the last report 
under the head of meteorology, and copies of it have been distributed 
to the meteorological observers. It contains 40 quarto pages, and is 
illustrated with 14 woodcuts. 

Several parts of the miscellaneous collections have also been published. 
The first is a. catalogue of the Orthoptera or upright winged insects 
of Xorth America, described previous to 1807, prepared for the Smith- 
sonian Institution by Samuel II. Scudder, of the Boston Society of ISTat- 
ural History. This work is intended as an index in which the student 
can find a reference to every publislied account of any species of 
Orthoptera found on the continent of North America or in tlie West 
Indies, together with the exact names given to the insects in the origi- 
nal descriptions. The publication and distribution of this list will assist 
the author himself in obtainiiig materials for a contemplated elaborate 
raonogra})h on the same subject, while it will tend to advance science 
by calling attention to this interesting but heretofore little studied 
order of insects; an order which includes, however, among others, the 
cockroach and the grasshopper — the one so iirejudicial to domestic com- 
fort, and the other so often subversive of the hopes of the farmer. The 
lire})aration of this work is a gratuitous contribution by Mr. Scudder to 
the branch of natural history in which he is specially interested. It con- 
sists of 89 octavo pages, and will form a part of the eighth volume of mis- 
cellaneous collections. 

The next publication of the year 1808 is a volume forming part 
four of a series of monographs of the Diptera, or two-v/iuged insects 
of North America, by Baron R. Osten Sacken. Parts one and two 
of the same series previously published by the Institution were prepared 
by Dr. H. Loew, of Prussia, and the third part is in an advanced state 
of preparation by the same author. This volume contains the first 
part of a monograph of the North American Tqndidcc, the representa- 
tive of which is known as the crane-fly, an insect whose larvte are 
extremely destructive to crops of various kinds, devouring- the roots of 
cereals and pasture grasses, and almost all the plants ordinarily culti- 
vated in fields or gardens. The ground covered by the author in this 
monograph embraces all the known North ximerican species, exclusive 
of those of the West Indies and Mexico. The principal areas from 
which the specimens described have been obtained are the environs of ' 
the cities of Washington and of New Yorli:, but the author also made 
collections during occasional excursions to dili'erent parts of New York, 
Pennsylvania, and New England, besides receiving contributions from 
other parts of this continent. Thus, as far as the more common species 
are concerned, the middle and northern States may be said to be tolera- 
bly well represented in this volume, the regions west of the AUegha- 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 19 

nies aud the British Provinces not so fully, while the country south of 
Washington is, in this respect, almost entirety unexplored. The author 
as -well as the Institution is iiulobtcd to ^Ir. Sanuiel Powel, of Newport, 
Ehode Island, an amateur and patron of science, for the devotion of 
much time and practical skill to the preparation of magnified photo- 
graphs of the wings, from which the illustrations presented on the steel 
jjlates were reduced. This volume contains oio pages, illustrated with 
four plates and seven woodcuts. 

Among the memoirs accepted for piiblication, and formerly described, 
is one by Dr. John Dean, giving the results of a series of microscopical 
investigations of the medulla ohlongata. This paper was stereotyped and 
about to be published as a part of the 13th volume of the Contributions, 
when the expensive steel plates for its illustration were destroyed by 
the fire of 18G5. Owing to the absence of Dr. Dean in Europe, a consid- 
erable delay has occurred in procuring a new set of these illustrations. 
The stereotype plates of the letter-press were, fortunately, preserved, 
and we are now ready to i^ublish an edition of the memoir for distribu- 
tion as a i)art of the IGth volume of the Contributions. 

Since the last report an elaborate work founded principally on original 
research has been presented to the Institution, by Lewis H. Morgan, 
esq., of Eochester, Xew York. It is ou the systems of relationship 
adopted by difierent races and tribes of men. About 20 years ago the 
author found in use among the Iroquois Indians, of the State of New 
York, a system for the designation and classification of family relationship 
of a singular character and wholly unlike any with which he was previously 
familiar. Under this system, for example, all the children of the several 
brothers and sisters of an individual are considered as his own children ; 
all the brothers of his father are habitually regarded and addressed as liis 
own father; all the sisters of his mother as his mother, &c. Mr. IMorgan 
afterwards found the same system in use among other Indian nations, in » 
which, while every term of relationshii) was radically diiferent from the 
corresponding terms in the Iroquois, the classification was the same. 
Extending the research to other fields of inquiry, he found before the 
close of 1859 that the same system prevailed among the principal Indian 
nations east of the liocky mountains, and that traces of it existed both in 
the Sandw ich Islands and in south India. He therefore resolved to prose- 
cute the investigation upon a still \i\ovq comprehensive scale, and to 
attempt, if possible, to investigate the systems adopted by the different 
families of mankind. This, however, required a more extensive foreign 
correspondence than a private individual could hope successfully to 
maintain. He therefore made application to the diii'erent boards of for- 
eign missions, and also to the Smithsonian Institution, for such co-ope- 
ration in the furtherance of his object as it mipht be in their power to 
alford. The Institution accordingly issued circulars and schedules, 
which were distributed to its correspondents in all parts of the world. 
Through his own immediate labors and the assistance just mentioned, 



20 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

the aiitlior lias been able to construct tables of relatioilsbip of as many 
as 70 Indian nations, speaking as many independent dialects, and also 
tables of tlio systems of the principal nations of Europe and Asia, a 
X^ortion of those of Africa, of Central and South America, and of the 
islands of the Pacific. The tabukited schedules will represent the sys- 
tems of rehitionship of upwards of four- fifths of the entire human family. 

The memoir presents in a brief form the following systems or 
methods of indicating the relatio^is of consanguinity: 1st. That of the 
Aryan family, as typified by the Eoman form. 2d. That of the Malayan 
family, as indicated by the Hawaiian mode. 3d. That of the American 
Indian faaiily, as represented by the Seneca-Iroquois. According to the 
author's generalizations all these systems of consanguinity resolve 
themselves into two radically distinct forms, one of Avliich he calls the 
descriptiv^e and the other the classihcatory form. The first assumes as 
its fuudainentai basis the antecedent existence of marriage between sin- 
gle pairs. Before it could have come into existence mankind must 
have made some advances in civilization; it follows the regular course 
of descent, describing each individual with reference to his parental 
derivation. In the second form the relation of consanguinity is only 
given in classes, the same term of consanguinity being applied to a 
numberof persons not standing in precisely the same proximity of actual 
relationship. This system, according to the author, seems to indicate 
that it was adopted in a state of society in which marriage between sin- 
gle pairs was unknown or exceptional. This memoir was first referred 
to a commission, consisting of Professor J. H. Mcllvaine and Professor 
William Henry Green, of Princeton, ISTew Jersey, who recommended its 
l)ublicatiou, but advised certain changes in the method of preseiiting 
the subject.. After these modifications had been made it was submitted 
to the American Oriental Society and was by it referred to a special 
committee, consisting of Messrs. Hadley, Trumbull, and Whitney, wlio, 
having critically examined the memoir, reported that it contained a 
series of highly interesting facts which they believed the students of 
philology and ethnology, though they might not accept all the conclu- 
sions of the author, would welcome as valuable contributions to science. 

Besides the foregoing the following papers have been accepted for 
j)ub!ication and are now in the hands of the printer: 

The Indians of Cape Flattery: by J. <t. Swaa; Investigation of the Path 
of a Meteoric Fii-e-bull: by Professor J. H. Coffin, of Lafayette College; 
Description of a part of a Mummy Case: by Dr. Charles Pickering; Land 
and Fresh- water Shells of North America: by W. G. Binney and Thos. 
Bland. 

In addition to the foregoing the discussion and reduction of all the 
observations relative to the raiufhll of the north American continent 
have beea completed and will be published during ISiJO. The whole 
amount exj)euded during the past year for i>ubiications was about |(i,800. 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 21 

A largor sum, liowever, ^vill be required for this puri)o.se during the pres- 
ent year. 

The Smithsonian Institution is now in possession of a hirge amount of 
manuscript material rehitive to the natural history, geology, and ethnology 
of the whole of the northern part of the American continent, extending 
from Labrador to Behring's straits, and northward to the Arctic sea, includ- 
ing Greenland and the vicinity of Von Wrangell's land. These materials 
have been derived i)iiucipally from s[)ecial explorations, directed by 
the Smithsonian Institution, and with the co-operation to a greater or 
less extent of the Chicago Academy of Sciences. They have been 
gathered by the officers of the Iludsoirs Bay Company, at their stations 
in various parts of the northern portion of the continent, by the scien- 
tific corps of the Eussian telegraph expedition, and by si)ecial explorers 
acting under the immediate auspices of the Institution. That part which 
relates to natural history is now nearly ready for the press, and will 
probably be published during the coming year, while that relative to 
physical geogTaphy is in an advanced stage of preparation. This includes 
all the scientific reports made to the Eussian telegraph company by its 
employes, and liberally furnished, by the company or its officers, to the 
Institution. The material also contains a large number of vocabularies 
as well as other information relative to the languages of the country, 
whicii we hope soon to have in a proper state for publication. All 
these contributions, together with the observations of Kane, McClintock, 
and Hayes, which have been discussed and published by the Institution, 
form no small addition to the knowledge of the North American conti- 
nent, and will forever remain a monument of the munificence and a 
memorial of the name of Smithson. 

The annual report for the year 1867 w^as printed as usual by order of 
Congress, and the extra number of 10,000 copies ordered as heretofore. 
In addition to the report of the secretary, giving an account of the 
operations, expenditures, and condition of the Institution for the year, 
a'.ul the proceedings of the Board of Eegents to May 2, 18GS, it contains 
the following articles: biographical notices of Professor C. C. Jewett, 
formerly librarian of the Institution; of William Henry Harvey, of 
Dublin, author of an extensive work on AlgiP, published by the Institu- 
tion; memoirs of LegcMidre, Peltier, and Faraday; a sketch of the 
history of the Royal Institution of Great Britain; a memoir on the 
family Jussieu, and the natural method of classification in botany; the 
natural history of organized bodies; the electrical currents of the earth; 
considerations and facts relative to electricity; queries about expression 
for anthropological inquiry; the various modes of flight in relation to 
a:>ronautics; man as the cotemporary of the mammoth and rein<leer 
in middle Europe; photo-chemistry; an account of the astronomical 
observations at Dorpat and Poulkova; traces of tlie early mental con- 
dition of man, account of Indian remains, ancient mounds, &c. ; explora- 
tions in Central America and Lake Winuepeg; sketch of the flora of 



22 EEPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

Alaska; various letters on meteorology; prize questions of societies in 
Eai'ope; and a list of abbreviations used in England at the present time. 
This publication is constantly growing in popularity, and, next to the 
report of the Agricultural Department, no document is in greater demand. 
We may mention, as a proof of this, that a considerable portion of the 
copies allowed the Institution for distribution among its own correspond- 
ents has been absorbed, during the last year, in meeting the application? 
of members of Congress for the supply of their constituents. In com- 
plying with these applications we have never failed to represent that 
a larger edition of the report is highly desirable for distribution, both by 
the Institution and Congress, und that an addition of 5,000 copies to the 
number which has been printed would cost comparatively but a trifle 
after the stereotype plates have been placed upon the cylinder of the 
X)riuting press. 

Explorations and collections in natural history. — From the first estab- 
lishment of the Smithsonian Institution until the present time a consid- 
erable portion of its annual resources has been devoted to explorations 
for the development of the natural i)roductious of is"orth and Central 
America, particularly in relation to zoology, botany, and mineralogy. Of 
late years a number of other institutions have entered the same field, 
either independently or in co-operation with this Institution. Foremost 
among those which have made separate explorations is the great museum 
of comparative zoology at Cambridge, under the direction of Professor 
Agassiz. The late expedition of this renowned naturalist to South 
America has been crowned with a larger collection of specimens in 
zoology than has ever been obtained through the exertions of private 
enterprise. Among societies which have co-operated during the past year 
with the Smithsonian, and scarcely in a rank below any other in regard 
to zeal and efQciencj^, are the Chicago Academy of Science, the Boston 
Society of Natural Histor^^, and the Peabody Museum of American 
ArchiBology and Ethnology of Cambridge, Mass., as also the Kentucky 
University of Lexington. In giving an account of what has been done 
during the year under review in the line of natural historj^ we shall 
adopt, as in previous reports, the geographical order. 

In reference to ArctiG America the contributions from Mr. Macfarlane 
and Mr. McDougal of the Mackenzie river district have added largely to 
the materials previously received from that region, and are of special 
interest in regard to Oology. The last invoice from Mr. Macfarlane is 
fully equal to those with which he has favored tlie Institution in previous 
years, and entitles him to the credit of being the largest contributor to 
the Smithsonian collections, and of having done more than any othei 
person in making known the x)roductions and character of the regions 
he has explored. The record of specimens bearing his name already 
amounts to over ten thousand' entries, including some of the choicest 
contributions to natural history and ethnology. A collection of birds 



EEPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 26 

and eggs, including some new species of the latter from west of Lake 
Winnipeg", has been received froir Mr. Donald Gunn, and of insects 
and birds from the vicinity of Hudson's bay from ]\lr. James Lockhart 
and Mr. B. Iv.. lioss, to both of v.hom acknowledgments for valuable 
ser\ices have been frequently rendered in previous re[>orts. 

Mr. W. n. Dall, who was mentioned in the last report as having suc- 
ceeded JMr. Kennicott as chief of the natural history corps of the Eussiau 
telegraph expedition, remained after the abandonmont of that enterprise 
to continue his explorations among tlie Indians and Esquimaux along the 
Yukon, and within the Arctic Circle, including the most northern part of 
our new possessions. He has just returned and brought v.ith him a valua- 
^ble collection of the natural productions, as well as illustrations of the 
ethnology of the regions he has visited. Mr. Dall visited Sitka with 
the telegraph expedition, in 18G5, then went to the Aleutian islands, 
and afterwards to Plover bay, in Eastern Siberia. He spent the winter 
of 180G in the vicinity of St. Michael's, Norton's sound ; went the next 
spring, Vv'ith a single companion, to Fort Yukon, near the headwaters of 
the river of the same name, and continued his ex[)lorations on either side of 
the iVrctic Circle until September, v.hen he retm^ned to Norton's sound to 
report the result of his labors to tiie engineer-iu-chief of the telegraphic 
expedition. But learning that the enterprise had been abandoned, he 
concluded to remain in the country and continue the exploration on his 
own account. In the prosecution of this purpose he left St. Michael's 
in October, and spent the following winter among the Indians and 
Esquimaux, in the region between the Yukon and Norton's sound. In 
the spring he descended the Yukon, and in July commenced his home- 
v.'ard journey. His collections are rich in birds, eggs, plants, smaller 
animals, fish, fossils, and especially in ethnological illustrations. He 
also made copious notes on the physical geography, geology, and meteor- 
ology of the country. The first winter — 1800-'G7 — was very cold, the 
thermometer descending, near Nulato, as low as GS° below zero. The 
second was much warmer; rain fell almost every day, and, with the 
exception of one occasion, the thermometer ranged from 10° below to 
8° or 10° above the freezing point. As if, however, to compensate for 
this, the spring was longer and cohler than had becii knov»n for IG i^re- 
vious years. The short summers are quite warm, no snow remaining on 
the ground. Ilai)id!y growing vegetables are cultivated by the Russian 
traders, such as turnips, radishes, and lettuce. An attempt to grow 
potatoes failed at St. Michael's, although a similar experiment is said to 
have beeu successful at Fort Yukon. This part of the country is of no 
value in an agricultural point of viev.', but affords an abundance of rich 
furs. It is thickly wooded in the interior, principally with si)ruce, pop- 
lar, and willov.'. Mr. Dall v;as kindly entertained by the inhabitants, 
who, on all the coasts north of the Aleutian islands and on that of tiie 
Arctic sea, consist of Esquimaux, while the inhabitants of the interior 
are Indians. 



24 EEPOET OF THE SECRETARY. 

The expenses of origiual outfit for making collections in natural liis- 
tory daring- the telegraphic expedition were defrayed by the joint 
contributions of this Institution and the Chicago Academy of Science. 
Subsequently the telegraphic company itself made liberal provisions for 
faciUtating the same object, and for furthering, as far as compatible 
with the primary intention of the enterprise, the advance of science. 
The costs of the expedition of Mr. Dall, after he left the service of the tel- 
egraph company, were borne by himself, and the results generously pre- 
sented as a contribution to the cause to which he has shown himself so 
ardently attached. The transportation of all the collections ti-om the west- 
ern coast devolved upon the Institution, and but for the generous assist- 
ance of the Pacific Mail Steamship Cojupany, it would have called for a 
larger outlay than we could well have afibrded. Since Mr. Ball's return he 
has occupied a room in the Smithsonian building, and has been engaged 
in arrangiug and labeling his si^ecimeus preparatory to the forma- 
tion of a descriptive catalogue. While he has been occupied in this 
worii the Boston Soci'fety of Natural History, as well as the Institution, 
bas contributed to his support, with the undcrstandiug that the former 
is to have a portion of the duplicates set apart for distribution. 

Other collections of interest have also been received from Alaska, viz : 
tliose made by Mr. Bischoif, at Kodiak ; and by Dr. Minor, in various 
localities visited during the cruise of the Wayandaj others still, from. 
Captain White, of the same steamer ; also from Captain Howard and 
Mr. George Davidson, of the United States Coast Survey. 

Westeni United iStafes. — The Institution still continues to receive speci- 
mens from the Pacific coast, ana frequent communications relative to the 
physical geography, meteorology, and ethnology of the country. Dur- 
ing the past year among the more important collections from California 
was a series of nests and eggs from Dr. Canfield, of Monterey, and of 
birds and shells from Mr. li. E. 0. Stearns. But the most important 
exploration undertaken since the date of the last report has been that 
under the direction of Mr. Clarence King, authorized by Congress for a 
geological survey of the 40th parallel of latitude, principally in I^evada 
and the western portion of Utah. The results of this exploration are 
especially important from' the facts obtained relative to the pliysical 
geography and meteorology of the country. A base line in a north and 
south direction was measured by astronomical observations at the two 
extremities, and from this a net-work of triangles was extended over the 
region surveyed, by which the topography was determined and the 
materials furnislied of an accurate map of a part of the country previ- 
ously imperfectly known. The party consisted of four geologists, 
including ]Mr. King, four topographers, two botanists, one zoologist, and 
one meteorologist. All the specimens collected, filling GO boxes, with the 
exception of those of botany, have been received at the Institution, and 
are now in process of being arranged for study and subsequent distribu- 
tion. The botanical collections have been given in charge to Professor 



EKPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 25 

Eiiton, of Yale Collci;"0, for the determination of the species and their 
rehitious to the flora of other portions of the United States, bnt will finally 
be sent to the lustitntion, to the care of which all specimens collected 
by government expeditions are assigned. In the same connection it may 
be mentioned that Dr. Hitz has continued his explorations on the upper 
Missouri, and contributed specimens of fossils, skins of birds, eggs, &c. 

At the last session of Congress an appropriation vras made for ex[)lor- 
ations under the direction of the Land Office. This survey, the coiuluct 
of which was consigned to Dr. F. V. Hayden, extended over the Black 
hills, Laramie plains, the headwaters of the Little and Big Laramie 
rivers to Bridger's pass. It also included a survey along the Pacific 
railroad from Fort Saunders to Green river. The report of this survey 
has been made to Joseph S. "Wilson, esq., the Commissioner of the Land 
Office, with whom all the specimens collected have been deposited. Dr. 
Hayden, however, made an independent su.vey under the auspices of 
the Institution, along the eastern base of the Eocky mountains to Den- 
ver city, and southward to the Sangre de Christo pass, across the San 
Luis Potosi park and the valley of the Rio Grande, and thence into New 
Mexico, returning northward through the Poncho i)ass, across the Arkan- 
sas into the South park, and through this into the mining regions of Col- 
orado. Besides the geological notes whifch were made during this 
expedition, a large number of spe<'imens was collected; and as no appro- 
priation of Congress was made for the transportation of the latter, the 
cost has been defrayed by the Institution. The specimens have been 
received and are now awaiting their examination and final disposition. 
Another exploration which will be mentioned under the head of 
ethnology, was conducted by Dr. E. Palmer, in the Indian territory, 
the collections from which were but little less important as illustrative 
of natural history than of Indian life and ethnology. Dr. Palmer is nov/ 
in the Institution assorting the specimens and prei)aring his notes for 
publication. 

Middle and South America. — Colonel Grayson has been engaged in jirose- 
cuting his exploration in northwestern Mexico, and has I'm iiished large 
collections of its ornithology. To him more than to any other may justly 
be ascribed, says Professor Baird, a knowledge of the species of birds ot 
that region. Under the joint auspices of the Smithsonian Institution and 
the Kentucky University, at Lexington, Professor Sumichrast, a well- 
known naturalist long resident in Mexico, has gone to the Isthmus ol 
Tehuantepec to make observations and collections in natural history, 
Vvhich will doubtless throw light upon the geographical distribution of s[)e- 
cies. Two boxes of specimens have just been received as the first fruits of 
this expedition. Dr. Sartorius has also continued his important contribu- 
tions from ^lirador. Ex])l()rations have been further prosecuted in Costa 
llica, a region which has been the subject of much attention on the part 
of the Institution, and a valuable collection of specimens has been 
received from Mr. M. Calleja, made by himself and IMr. J. Zeledon, as 



26 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

well as contribiitious from Dr. Vou Fiantzius, from Captain J. M. Dow, 
Mr. Henry Hag'ae, Mr. George Latimer, Dr. Destruges, and otlier cor- 
respondents mentioned in tlie list of donors. A series of birds of the 
Galapagos islands lias been presented by tlie Swedish Academy of 
Sciences through Professor Sundevall, furnishing us with the first illus- 
trations of the fauna of that group, so remarkable for its land and marine 
animals. Mr. W. H. Hudson has continued to make collections of birds 
in the Argentine provinces, and Mr. Albuquerque and Dr. Smith have 
rendered the same service in regard to those of Brazil. Specimens from 
Peru have been received from Dr. Sclater, while Mr. Salviu has sent 
types of several new species from Veragua, on the isthmus of Panama. 

Uxplomfions and collections in ethnology. — During the past year greater 
effort has been made than ever before to collect specimens to illustrate 
the ethnology and archaiology of the i^orth American continent. This 
subject, it is true, has from the first been an object of interest to the 
Institution, as being a common ground on which the cultivators of 
science and of literature might harmoniously co-oi)erate. It embraces 
not only the natural history and peculiarities of the different races of 
men- as they now exist upon the globe, but also their atJiiliations, their 
changes in mental and moral dev^elopment, and also the question of the 
geological epoch of the appearance of man upon the earth. So much 
interest has been awakened in the general subject, that Mr. George Pea- 
body, with an enlightened liberality, has presented 8130,000 to Harvard 
University, at Cambridge, for the foundation and maintenance of a 
museum and professorship of American ethnology and archaeology, 
Although the funds of that establishment are not yet fully available. 
measures have been taken, under the direction of Professor Jeffries 
Wyman, to secure European specimens for comparison, and also to com- 
mence the collection of original records of the races of our continent. 
The Smithsonian Institution having inaugurated a number of special 
explorations, embracing ethnology as well as natural history, has 
invited the Peabody museum to co-operate in the enterprises, by con- 
tributing funds, with a view to sharing the results of the expeditions. 
This proposition has been fiivorably entertained, and an appropriation 
been made to assist an important exploration of ancient mounds in 
Kentucky, under the direction of Mr. Sidney S. L^yon. We cherish the 
hope that, as the funds of the Peabody museum become more and more 
available, our union of effort to extensively examine the monuments 
and collect all the relics, to illustrate as fully as possible the archiieology 
and ethnology of the American continent, will be crowned with success. 
The interest in the archeeological remains of America is by no means 
confined to this country. They are considered of much importance in 
Europe in the way of comparison with those of the old world, and speci- 
mens have been diligently sought for by collectors from abroad. Mr. 
William Blackmore, of Liverpool, in piirticular, a gentleman of wealth 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 27 

and intelligence who has founded an ethnological museum at Salis- 
bury, has made several visits to this country for the purpose of obtain- 
ing additions to his collections. He has purchased of Dr, E. II. Davis, 
for a large sum of money, the archaeological specimens described and 
figured in volume I of the Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge. 
Though it ma}-, perhaps, be a matter of regret that Congress did not 
make an appropriation for the purchase of these interesting sj>ecimens, 
it is still gratifying to the lovers of science, irrespective of nationality, 
that they will be perpetually ])reserved and rendered available for the 
advancement of ethnoiogy. While we ourselves were not able to retain 
in tliis country the originals, we have i)rocured a complete set of fac- 
similes in plaster, which, for general investigation, are nearly as valua- 
ble as those from which they were taken. 

The Institution is indebted to Mr. Blackmore for a series of i)ho- 
tographs of American Indiana; a model of Stonehenge; a number 
of electrotype copies of ancient medals ; and a copy of a work writ- 
ten by Thomas Inmau, M. D., for private distribution, on "Ancient 
Faith embodied in Ancient Names." Mr. Blackmore is enthusias- 
tically interested in ethnology, and devotes his spare time, as well 
as a large portion of his ample means, to the prosecution of the 
subject. The uuiseum which he has founded and munificently endowed 
consists of specimens intended to illustrate the anthropology of every 
I)art of the world, and is freely opened to the public, either for casual 
visits or for critical study. An account of it will be given in the appen- 
dix of this report, under the head of ethnology. We have found in Mr. 
Blackmore an efQcient and liberal collaborator, who evinces a disposi- 
tion amply to repay, in returns of specimens and information, the con- 
tributions we may be able to make to the stores he has already accumu- 
lated. In his late visit to this country he thinks he has found speci- 
mens of the early drift period, or of the first indications of the works of 
man on the earth, not previously known to exist on this continent. The 
locality of these remains is about 50 miles from Fort Bridger, in Utah 
Territory, and will not be forgotten as a point of special interest in our 
explorations. 

It is now generally known that, in times long- anterior to the dawn of 
authentic history, the practice extensively prevailed of constructing 
human habitations upon wooden piles driven into the shallow water of 
lakes, remains of Miiich have been found especially in Switzerland, but 
also in other countries. Upon these piles platforms were placed and 
habitations erected, not for temporary occupation, merely, but for pro- 
longed residence. Of these aicha'ological remains accounts have been 
given in previous reports, and during the past year arrangements have 
been mad(^, through the exchanges of the Institution, to obtain speci- 
mens from the jnore important localities in which they are found. 

The following is an account of the more important exidorations ami 
additions to the collections of the Institution which have been made 



28 EEPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

during the past year in the line of ethnology. The first in value is that 
already referred to as having been undertaken under the joint auspices of 
the Institution and th« Peabody Museum, by Mr. S. S. Lyon, of Indiana. In 
this exploration a number of mounds in Kentucky were opened, and more 
than fifty perfect crania, v/ith many imperfect oi les, and a considerable num- 
ber of skeletons, were procured. There were disinterred also about thirty 
vases more or less perfect, a large number of stone axes, hammers, orna- 
ments, beads, bone awls, «&c., the Avhole filling seven barrels and four 
boxes with extremely valuable material. The crania and bones were 
referred to Dr. Wyman for special investigation, who reports that they 
had been received, that he had nearly finished cleaning the skulls, which 
would require many repairs, but that he hoped to do justice to a collec- 
tion which afibrds an opportunity never before equaled of examining the 
skulls of American aborigines. Mr. Lyon's exploration has also fur- 
nished a series of ancient implements as well as casts of footprints 
sculptured in the rocks. Imitations of this kind, which have been fre- 
quently found, were for a long time supposed to have been formed by 
the actuijl impressions of human feet when the rock was in a soft con- 
dition, but subsequent investigations have shown them to be undoubtedly 
sculptured imitations of footprints. They have occasionally been found 
in rocks containing pebbles, but in these cases the pebbles, instead of 
bearing evidence of having been pressed down into a plastic materiid 
by a hunuin foot, show clearly that they have been cut by the tool of a 
workman. 

Professor J. W. P. Je;iks, of Middleboro', Massachusetts, who has for 
many years been collecting objects of ethnology, has, in a spirit of praise- 
worthy liberality, allowed the Institution to select any specimens it 
might desire Irom his extensive cabinet. From the same place, some 
choice objects have also been recei\Td from Mr. Sylvester, as well as 
an interesting stone mortar and a stone axe, respectively the gift of Mr. 
E. Shaw and Mr. U. Sampson. Mr. Gregory, of Marblehead, has fur- 
nished some desirable sj)ecimens from eastern Massachusetts, as have 
also Mr. Levi Cole, of Beverly, Dr. Palmer, of Ipswich, Mr. Blake, of 
Boston, Mr. Burr, Mrs. Bryant, Mr. Jas. T. Ames, &g. To Amherst 
College, through Professor Hitchcock, the Institution is indebted for a 
large number of stone implements from western Massachusetts and Con- 
necticut. Explorations of ancient Indian graves were also made, with 
satisfactory results, near Hiugluim, Massachusetts, by Professor Baird, 
in conjunction with Dr. Brewer, Messrs. John Brewer, T. J. Bouve, F. 
Burr, Gerrish, and Wells. 

To Dr. W. Wood, of East Windsor Hill, Connecticut, the Institution 
is under obligations for his diligent efibrts to increase its archceological 
collections; a number of boxes have been received from him filled with 
articles illustrative of the primitive stone implements of Connecticut. 
Valued contributions from an adjacent locality have also been received 
from ]\Ir. Andrus. Special contributions of implements previously col- 



RKPOKT OF THE SECRETARY. 29 

lected in Maine, Xow Drunswick, and Pennsylvania, were likewise made 
by Mr. Boardnian, Dr. Todd, Mr. Blake, Mr. Haley, Mr. Leonard Pea- 
body, Mr. Hollis, and ]\lr. J. Hamilton. From Colonel E. Jewett, of 
Utiea, the Institution has received an extensive and choice collec- 
tion of relics especially rich in pipes and ornaments, beads, amulets, 
&('., gathered princii)ally in New York and adjacent States. Mr. liol)ert 
liowell, of Tioga county, New York, has made several interesting con- 
tributions in the same line, and others have been received irom the same 
region at the hands of Mr. Stephen Forinan and Mr. Jacob Stratton. 
Scarcely inferior in exteiit and variety to the collecition of Mr. Jenics is 
one made by the late Uon. George M. Keim, of Eeading, princii>al5y in 
central Pennsylvania, but also in Texas and Ohio. In this is found the 
first specimen of a choice lliut hoe, similar to that described by Professor 
Kau, in the Smithsonian Report for 3 863, a second specimen of which has 
just been received from Mr. Gran\'ille Turner, of Illinois. The collection of 
Gei?eral Keim was presented to the Institution by his children as a memo- 
rial of their father, and a very large and choice cabinet of minerals has, we 
learn, been given by them to J^ehigh University with a similar object^ 
Specimens from western Pennsylvania have been received from Dr. Wal- 
ker. 

The principal donations from the vicinity of Washington have been 
made by Mr. O. N. Bryan, some of which are very choice; by Mr. J. W. 
Slagle, and Mr. Tyler. S[)ecimens from the eastern shore of Virgiida 
have been presented by Mr. C. K. Moore. Mr. W. H. Edwards, of West 
Virginia, has contributed a number of choice articles from the Kanawha 
river and elsewhere, some of them unique. Mr. E. A. Dayton, an 
esteemed correspondent of the Institution, in the course of an extended 
tour through Tennessee and Kent ucky last year, took advantage of the 
occasion to gather collections, and awaken an interest in the subject 
which has resulted in large additions to our cabijiet. Our attention 
Laving been called by Mr. Dayton to a remarkable stone idol iound near 
the mouth of a cave at Strawberry Plains, Tennessee, a corres[)ondence 
was entered into with its owner. Captain E. M. Grant, which resulted 
in its being sent to the Institution. The most important collection of 
ethnological material yet received, however, is that presented by Cai)tain 
J. H. Devereux, of Clevehmd, Ohio, embracing a large nund)er of nearly 
every variety of ancient stone implements, i)riucipally of Tennessee and 
Ohio, among them specimens of pottery of very different patterns 
from those usually met with. Some of them are remarkable for smootli- 
uess of surface and symmetry of outline, as well as for the styU^ of orna- 
mentation. We have stated before that a series of casts of the ])rincipal 
objects described in the first volume of the Smithsonian Contributions to 
K;io.vle;lgL' ha I buiii [)iirchased, and it may be mentioned in this con- 
nection that other articles described in the same volume are in i)osses- 
sionof Mr. W. S. Vaux, ofPhiladeli)hia, who obtained them through the 
XHirchase of the valuable collection of ^Ir. James McBride, of Ohio, whoSe 



30 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

cabinet was freely open for study to Squior and Davis. Vwrn Lieu- 
tenant Beklen and Captain Mills, of the United States army, Drs. C. 
C. Gray and Matthews, fine collections of dresses and implements of exist- 
ing tribes of Indians have been received. The most extensive series, 
however, of modern objects of this kind pertaining to the United States, 
and obtained during the year under review, is that gathered by Dr. 
Edward Palmer, in the Indian territory, including specimens relating to 
the Couianches, Kioways, and other neighboring tribes. The collection 
consists of war implements, such as bows, arrows, shields, battle-axes; 
hunting and fishing implements, such as hooks, spears, nets, &c. ; a 
large variety of dresses, ornaments, including ear and finger rings, 
breast-plates, &c. ; tobacco-pouches, pipes of various materials, bowls, 
spoons made of wood and horn, a variety of whips, articles used for 
gambling, including packs of cards made of skins, and bundles of sticks 
with which bets are decided, from the manner in which they fall v/hen 
thrown upwards; also floor coverings made of parallel sticks attached 
by sinews; the whole forming very complete illustrations of the manners 
and customs of the tribes before meutionel. 

Some of the most important additions of the year to the stone series 
were included in a collection presented by Dr. Yates, of California. 
This collection embraced, in addition to a number of characteristic 
implements of the natives of California, moulds of those found under the 
lava of Table mountain, and which formed the subject of an animated 
discussion at the meeting of the American Association in Chicago last 
summer. It is proposed to make casts from these moulds for distribution 
to the principal museums in this country and abroad. Exteusiv^e collec- 
tions were made in Alaska, during the year, by Dr. T. T. Minor, surgeon 
of the United States steamer Way anda, embracing stone articles of supe- 
rior finish. Other objects, to which much value is attached, from the 
same region, have been received from Captain Howard and Captain J. 
W. White; and very extensive collections made by Mr. Dall are on their 
way. Mr. E. Macfarlane and Mr. Strachan Jones have furnished con- 
tinuations of collections previously contributed, in articles relative to the 
Esquimaux of the northern coast of America. Thanks to the co-opera- 
tion of the officers of the Hudson's Bay Company, among whom may be 
mentioned Messrs. Eoss, Gaudet, Hardisty, and Kirkby, but especially 
Macfarlane, the Institution is in possession of what would apj)ear to be 
a full representation of the life oi' the Esquimaux of that region, as illus- 
trated by their dresses, weapons of war, their implements for fishing and 
the chase, household articles, ornaments, &c. 

In this connection mention should not be omitted of a number of 
interesting stone implements contributed by Mrs. H. E. Schoolcraft, of 
Washington, the widow of the celebrated ethnologist, some of which are 
described in his elaborate work on the Indian tribes of North America. 
Among other articles for which the Institution is indebted to the liber- 
ality of Mrs. Schoolcraft is a cast of the inscription on Dighton Eock, 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 31 

Massachusetts, sometimes supposed to be of Runic ori^'^ln, but ^vliich, 
like the drawings on the same rock, are generally considered as having 
been made by the ])rimitive Indian occupants of tlmt rej^ion. 

It will have been observed that nearly all the additions to the ethno- 
logical collections referred to, have been from the United States and 
British possessions. Very imi)ortant donations have, however, been 
received from other parts of America. Captain J. M. Dow, of i^ew 
York, has presented the Institution with a collection of ancient pottery, 
ol stone images and implements from Nicaragua, Costa Rica, and Cliiri- 
qui, some of them of remarkable character. Other specimens of Chiriqui 
pottery were included in the collection of Colonel Jewett, already referred 
to. Mr. George A. Latimer, of Porto Rico, has presented remarka- 
ble stone implements of the ancient inhabitants of the West Indies, 
among which is a specimen in the shape of an ellipsoid;d stone ring, not 
unlike a horse collar in form, though rather less in size, being about 15 
inches in its largest diameter. It was possiblj^ worn about the neck as 
a badge of oftice in public processions. From Captain Dow we have 
received another wrought stone in the form of a large inverted U. It is 
conjectured that it might have been placed across the neck of the 
victim when stretched on the altar of sacrifice. 

The occasion here presents itself of stating that in a communication, 
through the Department of State, from Mr. de Cesnola, United States 
consul at Cyi)rus, we were informed that a remarkable discovery of 
Pha'uician and Greek antiquities had lately been made in that island, 
and that two boxes of the specimens were in readiness to be transmitted 
to Washington as presents for the National Museum. On the receipt of 
this information a letter was addressed to the Secretary of the Navy, 
asking that, if not incompatible vfith the rules of the service, some 
United States vessel, being in the vicinity, might be authorized to stop 
at the island and procure the articles above designated. To this letter 
a prompt answer was received from the Navy Department, containing 
the information tliat orders in accordance with the recpiest had been 
issued to the commander of the Mediterranean squadron. The follow- 
ing are some of th(! facts in regard to tlie discovery in question. In the 
month of December, 1807, a Greek laborer, digging for building-stone 
within the precincts of a little village called Galli, found a very old oven- 
shaped tond), containing pieces of skulls and other bones, and also some 
carious colored vases. On examining the ground a few yards in circnit 
other tombs were found, indicating thQ existence of an ancient burial- 
site. The dis(;overy was ke]»t secret from the authorities of the 
place, but was disclosed to the foreign consuls on the island, by whom 
the search was prosecuted. The American consul, Mr. Cesnola, obtained 
from the Turkish government at Constantinople a firman allowing him 
to search for anticiuities wherever he juight desire. With this he suc- 
ceeded in discovering the existence of a series of IMuenician tombs 
beneath the ancient .Greek burial ground. These tombs, which were 



32 EEPOET OF THE SECRETxYRY. 

oven-sliaped, with tlie mouth closed by kirge stones, were six and a half 
feet below the level of the Greek interments, and from nine to eleven 
feet below the surface of the earth. The articles found in the graves 
and tombs were of gold, silver, precious stones, bronze, copper, glass, 
marble, and terra cotta. The whole collection numbered 2,310 })ieces; 
the expense of the digging, $7,300 in gold, was defrayed by an asso- 
ciation composed of the Eaglish, French, and ximerican consuls, and an 
English banker. We need not say that the safe arrival of the portion 
of these relics intended by Mr. Cesnola for the Smithsonian Institution 
will be looked forward to with nnich interest. 

But the explorations of the Institution in regard to ethnology have 
not been confined to the contents of monads or to implements gathered 
from the surface of the ground, or brought to light by casual excavation. 
It is well known that in almost every part of the world contiguous to 
the sea there exist accainulatious of shells collected into heai)s or 
mounds. These mounds were long supposed to have been produced by 
natural causes, but comparatively recent investigations have shown that 
they are the remains of the festal or daily repasts of the ancient inhabit- 
ants. Thus their examination becomes an object of special interest; yet 
nothing had been done in this department of research in our own coun- 
try until lately, when examinations were commenced by Professor liau 
in New Jersey, Professor Wyman on the coasts of Florida, Maine, and 
Massachusetts, and by gentlemen connected with the Essex Institute, 
(now the Peabody Academy of Science,) in the vicinity of Salem, 
Massachusetts. During last -summer. Professor Baird, of this Institu- 
tion, after taking part in the Salem exploration, instituted an investiga- 
tion as to the shell-heaps of the coast of New Brunswick. In this 
enterprise he received the voluntary assistance of Mr. G. A. Boardman, 
Dr. Todd, of St. Stephens, Mr. Josiah Simpson, of St. David's, and Dr. 
Parker, of St. Andrews. They examined several new depositories, which 
yielded unexpectedly large numbers of implements of horn, bone, and 
stone, together with the remains of the animals which had served as food. 
Of this exploration a full account will hereafter be i)repared for i)ubii- 
cation in the repoi-t of the Institution. 

Kor yet are laeustrian structures and shell heaps the only sources 
from vv liich a knowledge of the manners and customs of prehistoric times 
may be acquired. The early inhabitants of almost every part of the 
world took advantage of natural caverns as places of shelter, and in 
these have left the indications of their former j)reseuce. An examination 
of the deposits of earth on the floors of these caverns, and sometimes 
even beneath the incrustations produced by the evaporation of the water 
charged with lime, which has dripped from the ceiling, have often dis- 
closed the bones of men, and also artificial implements, mingled with 
the remains of extinct animals. A cave of this kind, in central Penn- 
sylvania, was examined a number of years ago by Professor Baird, not 
with a view to the discovery of archaeological remains, but those of the 



KEPOET OF THE SECRETARY. 33 

animals wliicli miglit luive inhabited the cavern in previous geological 
perioils. The dubris wliich lie obtained were carefully preserved, but 
not subjected to a critical examination. The Professor, however, has 
more recently resumed the investigation in the light which new facts 
liaye shed upon the connection of these caves and their contents with 
the character, the pursuits, and the condition of men in pre-historic 
times. An account of the result of these researches will also, in due 
time, be published. 

The ethnological specimens we have mentioned are not considered as 
mere curiosities collected to excite the wonder of the illiterate, but as 
contributions to the materials from wliich it will be practicable to recon- 
struct by analogy and strict deduction the history of the past in its rela- 
tion to the present. In the case of the remains of animals and plants, 
from which the geologist reconstructs the flora and fauna of ancient 
times, inferences are drawn from petrifactions, shells, bones and teeth. 
These, however, are not sufficient in the case of anthropology, and, in 
addition to the study of human skeletons and crania, recourse must be 
had to the relics of the works of the men of the past; to the remains of 
their houses, tombs, fortifications, temi)les, implements, and ornaments, 
in order to determine their relation to the races which now inhabit the 
earth. Ethnology, it must be admitted, is at present in an elementary 
condition : in the period through which all science must necessarily 
pass — that of the collection of material; and, consequently, the only 
deductions which can be drawn to-day are i)rincipally of a provisional 
character. It is true that the evidences in favor of the greater antiquity 
of the appearance of man on the surface of the earth than has been 
heretofore generally admitted have been accumulating from year to 
\ear, yet it can scarcely be said with fairness that the question is fully 
settled. Other hypotheses than those which have been advanced may 
be suggested to explain the tacts observed. But, be this as it may, the 
investigation should be prosecuted without regard to preconceived 
■\iews. We may rest satisfied that religion and true science cannot be 
at' variance; the one properly understood, and the other rightly inter- 
preted, must agree in final results. In short, we should follow the rule 
laid down by the Bishop of London in a lecture delivered at Edinburg, 
that : " The man of science should go on honestly, patiently, diffidently 
— observing and storing uj) his observations and carrying his reasonings 
unfiinchingly to their legitimate conclusions, convinced tliat it would be 
treason to the majesty at once of science, and of religion if he songht to 
1)('1[) either by swerving ever so little from the straight line of truth." 
Caic iiowever must be taken that the provisioiuil hypotheses of science 
are not mistaken for absolute truths, and premature attempts be made 
to explain discrepancies between the two great domains of thought, 
'\vhich, after all, may arise from iiartial views of the connection of 
phenomena. 
3s 



34 REPOET OF THE SECRETARY. 

Museiim, and care of specimens. — Tlie exliibitioii rooms, to wliieh the 
public generally liave admission, have been limited since tlie lire to the 
large hail on the first floor of the main building, and the apartment on 
the same floor in the southern x^rojection, the latter containing ethno- 
logical specimens of a large size, principally from Central America, the 
former, the general collection brought home by the Wilke« Exploring 
Expedition, and the large additions since made to it by the several 
explorations under the direction of officers of the general government. 

It is greatly to be regretted that in the original plan of the building 
proper attention had not been given to the purposes to which it was to 
be applied. The spacious room, in which the rich collections of ornitho- 
logy and ethnology are contained, jjresents to the eye a succession of large 
l)iilars which obstruct the view of the cases containing the specimens, 
and it is only by a separate examination of the contents of these cases 
that the value of the collections can be duly estimated. In fitting up 
the room of corresponding dimensions in the second story, an opi^ortu- 
nity will be afforded of adopting arrangements far better suited for a 
comprehensive display of the vast number of objects with which in time 
it will be furnished. 

Daring the past year, in addition to the rooms before mentioned, the 
west connecting range has been i^rovided with cases for which the Insti- 
tution is indebted to the Commissioner of Patents, and to which will be 
transferred, in the com\se of a few weeks, the ethnological specimens from 
China and Japan, a part of which are still in the Patent Office. It is 
intended to devote the whole of this room to ethnological specimens, 
especially those illustrating the dress of the different inhabitants of North 
America. The west wing of the building, previously occupied by the 
library, is temporarily appropriated to the alcoholic specimens, and to 
such other collections as are not of special interest to the general public; 
it is used also for storing duplicates for distribution. 

For the support of the museum during the last year Congress appro- 
priated $4,000, while the actual expense of the care and preservation of 
the collections, independent of the interest on the cost of the building, 
was upwards of $10,000. If to this be added only 610,000 for the rent 
of the apartments, it will be seen that the cost of the museum to the Insti- 
tution cannot be estimated at less than $20,000 per annum. 

The stead}' increase in the receipt of specimens has been maintained, 
and has fully equalled in number and value that of any preceding year. 
The different additions were from 18G different parties, and were contained 
ii« 308 boxes, 149 handles, 19 jars and cans, 2 kegs, and 7 casks ; 485 in ' 
all, inclosing many thousand specimens, a detailed notice of which will 
be found in the appendix to this report. It should be remarked that all 
these specimens are not intended to swell the number exhibited in the 
national maseam, but that only the type specimens of such as are not 
already in the collection are to be devoted to this purpose, and the 
remainder made up into sets for distribution. 



EEPOKT OF THE SECRETARY. 35 

From tlie large accessions of specimens received duriiig tljc year, mucli 
labor lias been required merely to unpack, arrange, and catalogue them. 
The great importance should be borne in mind of prompt action in regard 
to affixing some permanent mark to each article so as to presevre all the 
data necessary to render it of value as material for scientific research. 
The locality and date of capture of every object of natural history, the 
name of the collector and donor, its association in place with other objects, 
its sex and age, are all points which can rarely be learned from the spe- 
cimen itself and must be immediately recorded. This is done by affixing 
an inefl'aceable number to the specimen and making an entry corresj^ond- 
iug to that number in a bound record book kept in a fire-proof room. 
V»Tienever a specimen admits of it, the items above mentioned are marked 
upon the object itself, but as long as the numbers and records are in 
existence the identity of the article can always be verified and the facts 
in regard to it ascertained. The determination of the exact name of the 
specimen at the time of entry is a secondary matter, as the specialist can 
at any time ascertain this point from the internal evidence; the other 
data, being entirely those of association, cannot be ascertained in the 
same way. 

Special attention has been given to the large ethnological collections 
belongingto the Institution, and considerable progress been made towards 
their permanent arrangement. The smaller objects, such as pipes, carved 
bones, stone implements, &c., will be mounted as soon as practicable on 
suitable tablets ; all the older articles have been washed with a solution 
of carbolic acid, to destroy the mould produced by the water with which 
the buildmg was deluged at the time of the fire, and such of the new ones 
as are liable to attacks from insects have been impregnated with poison. 
Each object of the collection will have the name of the donor, locality, &c., 
placed upon it, and the whole series will be completely arranged for 
study and exhibition during the present year. The principal work in 
this branch has been done under the direction of Prof. Baird, by Dr. E. 
Foreman and Dr. E. Palmer. 

Other objects that have received attention in the way of rearrange- 
ment and improvement are those of human and other crania, shells, 
inounted birds, nests and eggs, &c., in which labor Professor Baird has 
been assisted by Dr.T M. Brewer, Dr. William Stirapson, Dr. E. Foreman, 
I\Ir. W. n. Dall, :\rr. Zeledon, and Mr. R. PJdgway. 

Among the most interesting collections received from abroad, in return 
for specimens presented by the Institution, may be mentioned a series 
of minerals and rocks from the K. Ober-Berg Arat, of Breshiu, and a 
skeleton of the moose of Europe, from the zoological museum, Copenha- 
gen. The latter will furnish the means of comparing the European va- 
riety witli the closely allied if not identical moose of nortlieni America, 
Of the living animals received from different parts of tliis country, it will 
suffice to mention a golden eagle, from Professor H. Shimer; a number of 
menopomas from Dr. Walker; gopher turtles from Dr. Wilson; and a 



3G EEPORT OF THE SECEETAEY. 

Rocky mountain salamander from Mr. J. C. Brevoort. It will be recol- 
lected that the living- animals of a larger size heretofore presented to 
the Institution have been transferred to the National Asylum for the 
Insane, under the care of Dr. Mchols. 

Distribution of specimens. — The distribution of duplicate specimens to 
I)ublio museums and in exchange has been prosecuted as exten^vely 
during the year as was compatible with the large additions continually 
coming in and requiring immediate attention. The surplus material of 
plants, shells, minerals, and fossils has been, however, to a considerable 
extent, made up into sets, and sui)plied as far as they would go to the 
parties having the first claim. Other collections, however, will be ready 
for similar distribution as soon as the investigations connected with them 
and their arrangement into sets can be completed. The great amount 
of labor required for this Avill be evident when it is recollected that every 
specimen sent out is numbered and accomj)anied by a label giving the 
name, locality, and donor. Professor Baird, who has the special charge 
of this branch of the operations, has been assisted in his labors by a 
number of young gentlemen, who having been engaged daring the sum- 
mer in explorations, avail themselves in the winter season of the facili- 
ties of the library, the collections, and apartments furnished by the Insti- 
tution to prepare their reports for i^ublication. Those who are at present 
rendering service of the kind above mentioned are Messrs. Meek, Ball, 
Palmer, Zeledon, Bannister, and Eidgway. 

Agreeably to the resolutions adopted by the Board of Eegents at its last 
session, that " the distribution of specimens to foreign establishments, car- 
ried on by the Smithsonian Institution, be continued and extended, but 
that at the same time proper returns be requu'ed," we have api)lied to 
the leading foreign museums which have been fovored by our contribu- 
tions for desiderata especially needed in this country, and have the assur- 
ance that in due time valuable collections will be transmitted to us from 
all parts of the world. 

Among the establishments to which application has thus been made 
and a favorable response received, are : The British Museum and Eoyal 
College of Surgeons, London 5 Archaeological Museum, Zimch ; Public Mu- 
seum, Berne ; Museum of Lausanne ; Academy of Sciences, and Botanical 
Garden, St. Petersburg; Eoyal Museum, Lisbon; Ethnological Museum, 
Moscow; Ethnological Museum of University of Christiania; Zoological 
Museum, Copenhagen; Zoological Museum of University of Berlin; 
Academy of Sciences and Il^ational Museum of Antiquity, Stockholm ; 
Imperial Geological Institute, Vienna; University of Chile; Philosophical 
So(;iety, Leeds; Ethnological Museum, Paris; Melbourne Museum, Aus- 
tralia. 

Invest%gat%ons.-^li^x?i^ always been the policy of the Institution to furnish 
specimens for special study and investigation to naturalists of established 
reputation, either in this country or abroad. The use of these specime]is is 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 37 

granted under tlie ex])ress condiiiou that they are to form the subject of 
investigatiou, the results of which are to he published by the Institution 
or some other establishment, and that iu all cases full credit is to be 
given to the Institution for the assistance it has rendered. Furthermore, 
in the case of the preparation of a monograph, a full set of the type 
specimens, correctly labeled, is to be put aside for the National Museum, 
and the remainder of the specimens made up into sets for distribution. 
The follo^ving list presents the more important cases of the loan or 
assignment of materials during the past year. Some of the specimens 
have already been returned, while the remainder are still in the hands 
of the parties to whom they were intrusted : 

Crania of the recent and fossil bison, musk ox, &c., to Professor L. 
Agassiz, of Cambridge, Mass. ; land shells of Central and South America 
to Thomas Bland, of New York ; land and fresh water shells of North 
America to W. G. Binney, Burlington, N. J.; nests and eggs of North 
American birds to Dr. T. M. Brewer, Boston; birds of South America and 
Alaska to John Cassin, Philadelphia; Alcadae of North America to Br. 
Elliott Cones, United States army; collections of American and foreign 
reptiles to Professor E. D. Cope, Philadelphia; fungi from the Indian 
territory to the Eev. M. A. Curtis, Hillsborough, N. C. ; unfigured species 
of North American birds to 1). G. Elliott, New York; diatomaceous 
earths and deep-sea soundings to Arthur M.Edwards, New Yorlc; Lep- 
idoptera from various North American localities to W. H. Edwards, 
Coalbiu'g, Va.; seeds of Boehmcria, received from the Department of 
Agriculture, to Dr. Earl Flint, Nicaragua; plants collected in Ecuador 
by the expedition under Professor Orton to Dr. Asa Gray, Cambridge ; 
miscellaneousspecimensof North American insects to Professor T. Glover, 
IJepartment of Agriculture, Washington; general collection of birds of 
Costa Pica and Yucatan to George N. Lawrence, New York; American 
Uniouidiu to Isaac Lea, Philadelphia; series of North American salaman- 
ders to St. George Mivart, London; American Diptera to Baron R. 
Ostensacken, New York; Lepidoptera of Ecuador and Yucatan to Tryon 
lieakirt, Philadelphia; plants collected in Alaska by various expedi- 
tions to Dr. J. T. Rothrock, McVeytown, Pa. ; birds of Buenos Ayres, 
received from AV. II. Hudson, and a scries of small American owls, to 
Dr. P. L. Sclatc4' and Osbert Salvin, London; miscellaneous collections of 
American Orthoptera to S. H. Scudder, Boston; collections of American 
Ilcmiptera to P. R. Uhler, Baltimore; American myriapods and spiders 
to ih: H. C. Wood, Philadelphia; human crania irom iiortiiwesteru 
America and the ancient mounds of Kentucky, also collections from the 
ancient shell-heaps of Massachusetts and New Brunswick, to Dr. Jeffreys 
Wyman, Cambridge. 

Few persons are aware of the great extent to which this Smithsonian 
material has been used by American and foreign naturalists, or the 
number of new facts and new species which have been conlributed to 
natural history through its means. A complete bibliography of the titles 



38 EEPORT OF THE SECRETAEY. 

of the various books" and memoirs containing in part or entire the 
results of these examinations, with lists of the new species, would form 
a large volume. Among the published results of the examination of the 
materials furnished by the Institution during the last year may be 
mentioned the following : 

A monograph of the Alcadse, by Dr. E. Cones, in the Proceedings of 
the Philadelphia Academy of Natural Sciences; various herpetological 
papers in the same Proceedings, by Professor E. D. Cope; portions 
of various fascicidi of his work on North American birds, by D. 
G. Elliott ; monograph of the North American Lepidoptera, by W. 
H. Edwards; catalogue of the birds of Costa Pica in the museum 
of the Smithsonian Institution, and some special papers in the annals of 
the New York Lyceum of Natural History and the Proceedings of the 
Philadelphia Academy, by George N. Lawrence; paper on theUnionidte 
in Proceedings Philadelphia Academy, by Isaac Lea ; monograph of the 
North American Diptera, Part IV, by Baron E. Ostensacken, pub- 
lished by the Smithsonian Institution; catalogue of Alaskan plants in 
the Eeport of the Smithsonian Institution for 18G7, by Dr. J. T. Eothrock; 
list of birds sent from Buenos Aj-res to tbe Smithsonian Institution, and 
other papers, in the Proceedings of the Zoological Society of London, by 
Dr. P. L. Sclater and O. Salvin ; " on crania of Tschuktchi and Esquimaux 
tribes," by Professor J. Wyman, in the Proceedings of the Boston Society 
of Natural History. In all these cases full credit is given for the aid 
which has been afforded by the Institution. 

The Secretary, during the past year, has given a large amount of 
thought and labor to investigations relative to light and sound as aids 
to navigation, in connection with his duty as one of the members of the 
United States Light-house Board. He has also, in his connection with 
the National Academy of Sciences, devoted nearly all his time, for the 
space of two months, to investigations relative to the proper form of 
meters for gauging the quantity of proof spirits produced by distilleries, 
in order to determine the aniouut of tax to be paid to the government. 

Professor Baird has continued his investigations relative to the birds 
of North xlmerica, especially those of Alaska, the result of which has been 
the addition of fifteen species to those previously known to exist in this 
country. He has also edited a report by Dr. Cooper on the birds of 
California, for the geological survey of that State under Professor J. D. 
Whitney, and is now engaged in the preparation of a new manual of the 
ornithology of the United States. This work, wdiieh is to be illustrated 
by numerous engravings on wood, will be published by Little & Brown, 
of Boston, in the course of next year. 

Exclianges. — The cost of the international system of exchanges in the 
transportation of books and specimens is constantly increasing, and 
now forms no inconsiderable part of the annual expenditures. Were it 
not for the liberality of various companies, we should be unable to con- 



EEPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 39 

tiime the system, at least iu its present dimensious ; and we embraeo 
this occasion again to exi^ress acknowledgments for the efficient aid 
thus rendered to the cause of science and to the promotion of kindly 
feeling" between the United States and the other nations of the world. 
The following are the companies to which special thanks are due, 
namely, The Pacific Mail Steamship Company, Xorth German Lloyd. 
Hamburg American Steamship Company, General Transatlantic Steam- 
ship Comi)any, Pacilic Steam Navigation Companj-, Inman Steamship 
Company, Cunard Steamship Company, California and Mexico Steam- 
ship Company, and Panama Pailroad Company. To this list must be 
added several other lines which have granted similar facilities during 
the past year, namely, the Mexican Steamship Company, Union Pacific 
liaiiroad. United States and Brazil Steamshij) Company, North German 
Lloyd, (Baltimore line,) and the Atlantic Mail Steamship Company. 

Acknowledgments are also due for fiivors rendered iu connection with 
foreign exchanges to E. J. Davison, esq., Argentine consul; Jose I. San- 
chez, esq., consul of Venezuela; Seiior B. Blanco, consul-general of Gua- 
temala; L. H. J. dAguiar, consul-general of Brazil; R. C. Burlage, con- 
sul-general of Netherlands; Hon. E. Gutierez, minister from Costa Rica; 
to the American Board of Commissionersof Foreign Missions ; Real Socie- 
dad Economica, Havana; Board of Foreign Missions, New York; Amer- 
ican Colonization Society, Washington ; Society of Geography and Sta- 
tistics, Mexico; University of Chili; Bataviaasche Genootschap, Java; 
In.stitute of History, Geography, and Ethnology, of Rio Janeiro. 

The Institution frequently receives applications from foreign govern- 
ments and societies for official publications of the States or general gov- 
ernment relative to certain branches of i)olitical economy, statistics, 
education, &c. Daring the last year a request of this kind was received 
from the Belgian government, desiring us to i^rocure all the publications 
of the States in regard to public schools. Li answer to our circular ask- 
ing for these documents, a large and valuable collection was received, 
for which the thanks of the Institution were returned to the following- 
persons, namely: to A. Rogers, second auditor of Virginia; T. Jordan, 
secretary of state, Pennsylvania; S. C. Jackson, assistant secretary 
Board of Educa.ion, Massachusetts; J. A. Morris, school commissioner, 
Ohio; N. Bateuian, superintendent education, Illinois; C. J. Hoadley, 
state librarian, Connecticut; F.Rodman, secretary of state, Missouri ; 
R. A. Barker, secretary of state, Kansas; Ed. AVright, secretary of 
state, Iowa; C. W. Wright, secretary of state, Delaware; J. E. Tenney, 
secretary of state, Michigan ; and the secretary of state, Wisconsin. 

Another application of a similar character was received liom the gov- 
ernment of Norway for the publications of the United States relative to 
military affairs, which, on being referred to the heads of departments 
and bureaus, secured a large number of the desired publications. Ac- 
knowledgments for these favors are due to General E. D. Townsend, 
adjutant general; General A. A. Humphreys, chief engineer United 



40 EEPORT OF THE SECPtETARY. 

States army ; Surgeon General Barnes 5 Paymaster General Brice ; Gen- 
eral Dyer, cliief of ordnance; Commodore Jenliins, chief of bureau of 
ordnance and hydrography, Xavy Department; General Myer, chief 
signal ofiicer. 

For ofiicial co-operation with tlie Institution in its various plans for 
the promotion of knowledge and important assistance rendered, besides 
the foregoing, we may mention Hon. William H. Seward, Secretary of 
State; Hon. Hugh McCuiloch, Secretary of the Treasury; Hon. Horace 
Capron, Commissioner of Agriculture ; General Meigs, Quartermaster 
General; Mr. Spofford, librarian of Congress; Professor J. H. C. Coffiu, 
sui^erintendent Nautical Almanac; and Commodore Sands, of the i^a- 
tional Observatory. 

In 18G7 a proposition was made to the Institution by the librarian of 
Congress relative to establishing and conducting a system of exchange 
of ofdcial documents between the government of the United States and 
those of other nations. In accordance with this, a circular was addressed 
to the diiierent governments having relations with the United States for 
the purpose cf ascertaining their views as to such an exchange. In 
every case the proposition was regarded with favor, and at the ensuing 
session of Congress an act was passed directing that 50 full sets of all 
documents publislied at the Government Printing Oflice should be set 
apart for Ihe purpose in question, and appropriating a sufficient sum 
to defray the necessary expenses. Unfortunately, however. Congress 
neglected to direct the public printer to strike olf the necessary copies 
for this purpose, in addition to the regular number previously required 
for the use of the government, and it was not until recently that the 
necessary legislation w^as procured to remedy this omission. As soon 
as the printing of the documents of the present session of Congress is 
completed, the exchange i)roposed will be initiated. In anticipation of 
the receipt of the annual supply of the documents of our government, 
several large i)ackages containing documents of foreign countries have 
been already received. 

At the commencement of the system of international exchanges, great 
delay and considerable expense w^ere incurred in conseq 'leuce of custom- 
house requirements and tariif duties, but as the importai; .'e of the system 
became more evident, and the reputation of the Institution better estab- 
lished, one government after another consented to the entrance of pack- 
ages without examination and free of all restrictions, until at the present 
time there is no exception to this practice. 

The first effort towards the establishment of this desirable condition 
of free intercourse was made in 1853, througli Sir Henry Bulwer, then 
minister from Great Britain to the United States. Through his recom- 
mendations the British authorities at first permitted the entry of such 
books from the Institution intended as presents to learned bodies as 
might be recommended for that privilege by the Eoyal Society of London. 
This, tliough,an important concession, was still attended with consider- 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 41 

able delay, and on fiirtber solicitation the rule was so relaxed tliat at 
X)iesent the Smithsonian aj;ent linds no ditiiculty in obtaining the pas- 
sage of the packages at a mere nominal charge through the custom-house. 
AVith the precedent of the British authorities the Institution experienced 
no difficulty in making a satisfactory arrangement with the French offl- 
cers of customs. Pack;;ges for Germany and central Europe, addressed 
to our agent, Dr. Flugel, are entered at Bremen or Uamburg, then 
transferred to the Leipsic custom-house, from which they are released 
on the formal application of the agent to the authorities of the Zoi- 
verein. Parcels for Belgium and Holland are entered at Amsterdam, 
which is a free port. Those for Italy are entered at Genoa, which is 
also a port of free entry. In all cases of transmission of packages an 
invoice of the contents is sent to the agent, which serves as the basis of 
his apijlication for remission of duties and charges. 

Library. — The works which have been received from all parts of the 
world in return for the Smithsonian publications, after being recorded 
at the Institution, have been transferred to the national library in ac- 
cordance with the rules given in former reports. They are there under 
tiie care of an accomplished librarian and a corps of able assistant^;, 
accessible to all persons who desire to consult them, during everj^ week- 
day of the whole year, with the exception of a month in summer. The 
transfer of the library of the Institution still continues to bo approved 
by all who have attentively considered the advantages it aflbrds to the 
Institution, the government and the public. It has relieved the Smith- 
son fund of a serious burden in the cost of binding and cataloguing the 
books, in the pay of a librarian and his assistants, and in the expense 
of the maintenance of a separate establishment. It has enriched the 
library of Congress with a class of valuable works which could scarcely 
be procured by iiurchase, and it has facilitated the use of the books by 
collecting them in one locality, under the same system", readily accessible 
to the public. Some special works required for immediate use are still 
occasionally purchased, and besides these a working library is retained 
at the Institution, principally, however, of duplicate volumes, Avhile such 
series as are needed for special investigation are brought back for the 
purpose. The care of these and the cost of those purchased make up 
the small expenditure given in the report of the executive committee 
under the head of the library. 

The Library of Congress, or, as we think it should now be denomina- 
ted, the "National Library," contains about 180,000 volumes, exclusive 
of unbound pamphlets and periodicals, and is rai)idly iiR'n';!siiig, the 
accessions during the year ending December 1, 1868, according to the 
report of Mr. Spoftbrd, the librarian, amounting to 8,408. This library 
is emphatically a library of progress, for while it continues to increase 
by purchase in its o'svti series of standard works of all times, its addi- 
tions, through the contributions to it of the Institution, include the trans- 



42 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

actions of the principal learned societies of the world, or the worhs 
which mark more definitely than any other publications the actual 
advance of the age in higher civilization. 

An idea has, in some cases, been entertained abroad that the lustitu- 
t'on, since the transfer of the library, no longer desires to receive books, 
but measures have been taken to counteract this impression and to assure 
Societies and other correspondents that no change in this respect has 
taken place in the policy of the Institution, and that books on all subjects 
arc still desired both for its own collections and for presentation to other 
establishments in this country. 

The following is a statement of the books, maps, and charts received 
by exchange in 1868 : 

Volumes: 

Octavo - 1,316 

Quarto 394 

Folio CO 

1,770 

Parts of volumes and pamphlets: 

Octavo 2,565 

Quarto 761 

Folio 279 

3,605 

Maps and charts - - - ^ 134 

Total receipts 5,509 

The following are some of the larger donations received in 1868: 

From the Koyal Northern University, Christiania, 24 volumes and 27 
pamphlets. 

The Eoyal Society of Northern Antiquaries, Copenhagen, 9 volumes 
and 8 pamphlets. 

The Imperial Acadeiny of Sciences, St. Petersburg, 25 volumes and 27 
pamphlets. 

From His Majesty the King of Prussia, " Kunstdeukmiiler des christ- 
iichen Mittelalter in den Kheinlanden," 1st part, vol. iii. " Preussen's 
Schlosser und Eesidenzen, von A. Duncker," vol. ix, and " Scriptores 
Rerum Prussicarum," vol, iii; all in continuation of works previously 
sent. 

The Hungarian Academy of Sciences, Pesth, 51 volumes and 178 
i:>amphlets. 

The Ducal Library, Oldenburg, 34 volumes, consisting of a series of 
state calendars and other statistical works. 

From J. G. Gotta, Augsburg, 11 volumes ; 

From H. De Saussure, Geneva, 10 volumes and 13 iiamphlets : 

From the Chamber of Commerce, Bordeaux, 7 volumes : 

The Societe Imp. des Sciences, de I'Agriculture et des Arts, Lille, 12 
volumes of "Memoircs :" 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 43 

The Societe d'encouragement pour I'liulustrie Rationale, Paris, 14 
volumes "Bulletin :" 

The Society Imperiale et Ceotrale d'Agriculture, Paris, 2G volumes 
"Memoires," 12 volumes "Bulletin." 

From the Museum de Douai, 11 volumes and 15 pamphlets : consistiug 
principally of transactions and proceedings of societies. 

National Library, Madrid, 12 volumes and 15 pamphlets. 

The Meteorological Office, London, G Volumes, 37 pamphlets, and 10 
charts. 

The Hydrographic Office, Loudon, G volumes,. 10 pamphlets, and 43 
cliarts, giving the results of the latest maritime surveys.* 

From the National Library of Greece, Athens, 112 volumes and 39 
j)amphlets, principall}- on the philosophy and literature of ancient Greece, 

Thomason College of Civil Engineering, Eourkee, 13 volumes and 44 
pamphlets. 

Koyal Asiatic Society (North China branch) Shanghai, 4 volumes 
'' Journal." 

Library of Parliament, Melbourne, 10 volumes and 14 pamphlets. 

Eeal Sociedad Ecouomica de la Ilabaua, G30 volumes, 13 pamphlets, 
and 1 chart. 

University and Government of Chili, Santiago, 58 volumes, 13 pam- 
l)hlets, and 30 charts. 

Massachusetts State Library, 11 volumes. 

Ohio State Library, 10 volumes. 

Vermont State Library, 11 volumes. 

But, perhaps one of the most interesting contributions is a work rela- 
tive to history and philology i)ublished in folio parts of facsimiles of the 
national manuscripts of England, presented by Right Honorable the Sec- 
retary of State for War. These fac-similes are executed with minute pre- 
cision as to accuracy, by the photozincographic process, under the direc- 
tion of Colonel H. James of the ordnance department. The series includes 
documents belonging to each reign, from William the Conqueror to 
Queen Anne, arranged chronologically so as to illustrate tlie changes 
in the handwriting, and the language of different periods of English 
history. A translation is given of each document into modern English, 
together with a short account of its history. The first volume extends 
from William the Conqueror to Henry Vll, and includes autograi)hs of 
each sovereign, beginning with that of llichardll, and of many princes, 
prelates and nobles, whose names have become famous in history. 
Among the number are a series during the reign of Eichard HI, and 
several from the king himself. 

The second part is made u]) of fac-similes select<Ml from the public 
records of the reigns of Henry VHI and Edward VI. Among them 
are holograph letters, and autographs of Henry VIII, Queen Catliarine 
of Aragon, Cardinal Wolsey, the Emperor Charles V, Anne Boleyn, 
Ai'chbishop Cranmer, Queen Catharine Parr, Ann of Cleves, &c. The 



44 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

tliird part contains fac-similes of state papers, royal letters, and other 
documents, both public and private, belonging to the reigns of Queen 
Mary and Queen Elizabeth. Among those of the former are auto- 
graphs of her Majesty and of her cousin and rival, Lady Jane Grey, holo- 
graphs and autographs of King Henry the Second, of France, the King of 
Hungary Cosmo de Medici, the Lady Elizabeth of Euglaud, Thomas Gres- 
ham, Roger Ascham, &c. Among those of the reign of Queen Elizabeth, 
besides those from herself, are letters of Mary Queen of Scots and her 
husband Bothwell, and of the most distinguished nobles of Scotland ; 
of John Knox, Sir Humphrey Gilbert, Jaines VI of Scotland, Sir 
Francis Vere, Sir Walter Ealeigh, and other celebrated personages. The 
exaggerated terms of courtesy which were in use among eminent per- 
sonages at that period are illustrated by several examples in this vol- 
ume. The publication of the fac-similes of these valuable and interest- 
ing documents is to be continued, and we learn from the preface that 
similar fac-similes of the national manuscripts of Scotland have been 
undertaken, and those of Ireland recominended. 

It may be i)roper to recall the fact that the library of Smithson, or so 
much of it as was received by the Institution, with his personal effects, 
was not destroyed by the lire, and has been placed in a suitable case for 
liermanent preservation. 

Mr. Theodore Gill, who was formerly assistant in the library of thi? 
Institution, has been appointed one of the principal assistants in the 
national library, but he still continues his investigations in natural his- 
tory at the Institution, and acts as the intermediate agent between the 
two establishments. Miss Jane Turner, who vindicates by her accuracy 
and cfiiciency the propriety of employing her sex in some of the depart- 
ments of government, still continues to register the books as they are 
received through the extended system of international exchange. 

Gallery of Art. — The original act of Congress organizing the Institu- 
tion directed that, in addition to the support of a museum, librar^^, «Jcc., 
provision should also be made for a gallery of art. In compliance with 
this direction a commencement was made by the i)urchase of a series of 
valuable engravings, illustrative of the progress of the art from the 
earliest times, and also a series of Indian portraits was received on 
deposit. With these and a number of ijlaster casts of distinguished 
individuals, principally donations, a collection of articles was foi-med to 
which the name of a gallery of art was given. The Indian portraits, 
which had been deposited by the author, Mr. Stanley, together with a 
series of portraits also of Indians, belonging to the government, were 
destroyed by the hre. Fortunately the engravings, with few exceptions, 
were saved, and are now deposited with the books in the library of Con- 
gress. It was evident, however, that the projiortion of the Smithson 
fund which could be devoted to the purchase of specimens of art worthy 
of preservation in a put)lic gallery at the seat of government was far too 
small to do anything of importance in this line. It was therefore with 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 45 

gratification tliat the Ilegents learned that a citizen of Washington, 
"VYilliaui W. CorcoraD, esq., with an enlightened libei-ality, commensurate 
only with his means, had resolved to found an institution exclusively 
devoted to art. This design, which would otherwise have long since been 
fully carried out, was interrupted by the war. The large building which 
Mr. Corcoran had erected for the purpose was found necessary by the 
government for the use of the (Quartermaster General and is still retained 
in possession of that officer. As soon as possession of it is restored to 
Mr. Corcoran, which it is believed will be done in the course of the 
present year, it, together with a liberal endowment equal in amount to 
the original fund of Smithson, will be given in charge to a board of trus- 
tees, who will immediately i)roceed to carry out the views of the generous 
founder. In accordance with the policy which the Institution has 
adopted in regard to the library of Congress, the Agricultural Depart- 
ment, and the Army Medical Museum, it will probably be considered 
advisable to enter also into friendly co-operation with this new establish- 
ment, and instead of attempting to support a separate gallery of art to 
turn over to it the articles which have already been collected, and thereby 
increase the space in the Smithsonian building for articles of natural 
history and ethnology. 

2[cteorology. — It was stated in the last report that with the dimin- 
ish(,'d expenditure on the buildiug, and the larger amount which could 
be appropriated to the active operations of the Institution, the reduction 
and discussion of the meteorological material which had been collected 
for 20 years would be resumed, and that we had commenced u[)ou the 
rain-fall of the North American continent. Observations relative to this 
STd)ject from upwards of 1,200 localities were placed in the liauds of 
the computers. This work has been completed under the direction of 
Mr. Charles A. Schott, and will be put to press as soon as the illustra- 
tions are engraved. We are confident it will be considered by all who 
are competent to properly estimate its value, as one of the most import- 
ant additions to the climatology of North America and the agricultural 
interests of the community which lias ever been made. The same com- 
puters are now engaged upon the large amount of nmterial relative to 
teuq)erature, but the reduction and discussion of these will require more 
time than that which has been devoted to the rain-fall. It is estimated, 
however, that at the rate at which the work is now going on, it will bQ 
completed in the course of the next year. 

The discussion of all the observations relative to the winds has been 
resumed under the direction of Professor J. 11. Coffin, of Lafayette Col- 
lege, Pennsylvania, and will be prosecuted with as much rapidity as the 
nature of the subject, and the assistance afforded him, will permit. 
. All the more important meteorological observations which have been 
collected at the Institution during the last 20 years, are now in process 
of reduction, and when completed and the results published, we think 



43 KErORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

tliey will fully justify tlie expenditure of the Smitlison fund wbieh lias 
been devoted to this subject. 

The importance of a thorough knowledge of the climate of a country 
in relation to the well-being of the inhabitants can scarcely be over- 
estimated. The character of the animal and vegetable productions of 
any part of the world mainly depends on the climate, and if, as in 
geological periods, we suppose this in any case to undergo a change, 
we are certain, from the operation of general laws, that the fauna and 
flora of tlie region will undergo a corresponding change. It is true that 
civilized man has in a degree, through science, the power of resisting 
the influence of climate to which his race has not been long subjected, 
yet if sufiicient time be allowed for the weather to produce its eftect, 
marked peculiarities of physical constitution and even mental charac- 
teristics will eventually be produced, though these will be somewhat 
modified by the artificial conditions which have been introduced. Even 
a difference in the degree of moisture of the atmosphere has been shown 
by a critical observer to induce marked changes in the manners and 
customs of Europeans in their emigration to this country. 

The average temperature and moisture of each region, as well as the 
periodical fluctuations to which these elements are subjected, are essen- 
tial data on which to base the choice of special objects of culture and to 
estimate the probable results as to success or failure in a given number 
of years. It is a fact to which the statesman and the intelligent 
farmer cannot be too much alive, that the great material prosperity of 
this country in the past has been due to the large quantity of fertilizing 
material originally in the soil, and that this has been exhausted to a far 
greater extent than is generally supposed. It is well known that the 
same soil which in the eastern States originally yielded 30, and in some 
cases 40 or 50 bushels of wheat to an acre, now produces but eight or 
ten. From a late estimate by the Commissioner of Agriculture the 
average yield of the whole United States is less than 12 bushels, while 
that of Great Britain is 28 ; the great excess of the latter over the for- 
mer must be mainly due to the improved methods of agriculture. Indeed 
with the large extent of virgin soil in this country, producing sponta- 
neously rich harvests, with the expenditure of a minimum amount of 
labor, we have had comparatively little necessity to adopt methods of 
scientific agriculture, but we have now arrived at the condition in which 
every year a new demand will be made for the application of knowledge 
and skill of this kind, and for all the light which can be shed upon the 
subject by meteorology, chemistry, physiology, and other branches of 
science. • 

It will be remembered that the meteorological system of the Smith- 
sonian Institution was in a considerable degree interrupted, j)articularly in 
the southern States, on account of the late war. We have, howev er, during 
the past year succeeded in obtauiing a number of copies of registers 
which were continued with but little interruption through the whole 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 47 

period of the disturbauce, and liave also supplied a deficiency occasioued 
by the loss of the registers of 18G0 in the fire which occurred at the 
Institution in 18G5. For the purpose of exhibiting the extent of the 
material in possession of the Institution, and to give credit to the laith- 
ful and persevering observers wlio have so long gratuitously furnished 
contributions to this branch of science, there is given in the appendix to 
this report a full list of all the observers and of all the stations where 
records have been made from the beginning of the year 1840 to the end 
of 1808. The whole number of observers at i)reseut reporting to the Insti- 
tution is about 400 ; of these 74 are furnished with full sets of instru- 
ments. The number of observers under the direction of the arm^' is 
upwards of 100, of whom 50 are supplied with standard barometers and 
other compared instruments. With this combined system, interspersed 
vdth full sets of standard instruments, trustworthy data is obtained for 
determining the general climatology of the country. It is true that 
many of the instnunents in use are not as perfect as could be desired, 
yet they serve to indicate differences in the elements, and thus afford 
the data for tracing the progress, as it were, of waves of atmospheric 
l)ressnre, and also of waves of changes in atmospheric temperature. 

Anticipating the important benefits which may result to our system 
of meteorological observations, particularly to those which relate to the 
l^redietion of storms on the Atlantic coast, we look forward with much 
interest to the completion of the Pacific railway. A well equipped 
physical observatory j)laced at the highest point of the road, namely, 
" Sherman's station,'' is very desirable, and we think it probable that 
assistance from the railway company may be obtained to establish antl 
support an observatory of this character. 

During the past year a large number of rain gauges of a simple form, 
such as were mentioned in the last report, have been procured and dis- 
tributed to observers in various parts of the country. This gauge con- 
sists of a hollow cylinder of tinned iron 2i inches in diameter, and 13 
inches in height, coated inside and out Avith varnisli to i^revent rusting. 
The depth of rain is measured by inserting a graduated scale into the 
gauge, and noting the heiglit to which it has been wetted, in tenths and 
l)arts of tenths of an inch. The quantity of water in a fall of snow is 
measured by melting a column equal in diameter to that of the gauge. 
This is obtained by pressing the gauge, mouth downward, through the 
snow to the ground and isolating the contents by passing under the 
mouth of the gauge a thin plate of metal. A rain gauge of this form, 
after an experience of maiiy years^s found to give the most satisfactory 
results when used by ordinary observers. 

The discussion of all the material which we have collected in regard 
to rain-fall, has served to point out the parts of the country in which the 
registration is most deficient, and exertions have especially been made 
to obtain observations from the great plains of tlie west and at tlie l)ase 
of the Itucky mountains. The great current of the return trade wind, 



48 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

wliicli continua.lly flows througii the liighor regions of tlie atmospliere 
over tlie wliole United States and wliich at intervals reaches tLe 
surface of the earth, deposits its moisture, obtained from the Pacific, 
on the Sierra Nevadii and other chains of the Rocky Mountain system, 
and thus gives rise to the arid basins and woodless plains of the western 
portion of our domain. A part, however, of this region may be rendered 
arable by means of irrigation, or, in other words, a i)ortion of the pre- 
cipitated vapor may be, as it were, reclaimed for agricultural purposes, 
by artificial means ; and in determining the available resources of the 
country it is important that the amount of water, either in the liquid 
state or in the form of snow, which is precipitated in the mountains, 
should at least be approximately determined, and hence we have directed 
special inquiries to this point, supplying rain-gauges in all cases of 
explorations and giving definite directions as to ascertaining the depth 
of snow, the gauging of streams, &c. 

Much has been written on the subject of reclaiming arid wastes by 
planting trees, but the facts which have been collected in regard to this 
matter are frequently misinterj)reted, and the result of much research 
in reference to it misapplied. It should be recollected that trees cannot 
grow without moisture and that they have no power within themselves 
to create this essential element of their existence. It is .true that in 
some eases where moisture exists but is retained in an aeriform condi- 
tion by the radiating character of the soil, or carried away by the wind, it 
may be precipitated and rendered applicable to the uses of agriculture 
by the judicious planting of trees; while it is equally true that there are 
other localities in which the necessary water for vegetation can never be 
l^rocured by artificial means. The necessary data for the investigation of 
this question in relation to the western portion of the great valley of 
the Mississippi can only be obtained by extensive series of observations 
on the relative humidity and the direction of the moisture-bearing winds 
of different portions of the country. 

During the past year a self-registering barometrical apijaratus, in- 
vented by Professor George W. Hough, of the Dudley Observatory, has 
been erected in the Institution, but owing to the position in which it was 
first placed the series of records has not been continuous, though from 
the records which have been obtained it would appear that the instru- 
ment is capable of giving valuable results. This instrument consists of 
an iron tube in the form of a siphon closed at the u^Ji^er end and filled 
with mercury, and two cylinders or drums moved by clock work, to 
the surface of which is attached the paper receiving the register. On 
the surface of the mercury, in the shorter leg of the siphon, is an ivory 
float, fastened by a line thread to one end of a lever, the other end of 
which terminates between two points connecting the opposite poles of a 
galvanic battery. As soon as the mercury begins to rise and while 
it continues to ascend, the end of the lever is "pressed against the upper 
point, thus completing the circuit of an electro-magnet, which unlocks 



EEPOET OF THE SECRETAKY. 49 

the priutiiig pfii't of the machine, aiul a record is made in the form 
of au ascending- curve on the drums and on a slip of paper in figures, 
on the priucipk^ of the priating telegraph. When the mercury falls the 
motion of the pencil is reversed by bringing into oi)eration a second 
electro-magnet by which is traced a descending curve. Two drums are 
used, one giving the curve for two weeks and the other the same more 
developed for two days, the one serving as a check on the other. An 
interesting series of observations furnished from the United States engi- 
neer depot at Willett's Point, New York, by General Abbot, exhibits 
the almost perfect parallelism of two curves for nearly a month, one 
by an apparatus similar to this at Albany and the other at Willett's 
Point, from observations with an ordinary standard barometer, the 
distance between these places being upwards of a hundred and fifty 
miles. The i^arallelism of these curves exhibits not only the probable 
acciu'acy of the self-recording apparatus, but also the extent in a north 
and south direction of a wave of atmospheric pressure. The great 
improvement in meteorological data must depend in future on the intro- 
duction of self-recording instruments, especially at important points. 

Beside the contributions made directly from the ordinary observa- 
tions of the Institution, the following is an acccount of a memoir belong- 
ing to meteorology, i)reviously noticed under the head of publications : 

Od the evening of July 20, 18G0, a meteoric lire-ball passed over the 
northern parts of the United States and the adjacent parts of Canada, 
of so extraordinary a brilliancy as to attract the attention of numerous 
observers along its entire visible track of nearly 1,300 miles. The phe- 
nomenon was of so interesting a character that the Smithsonian Insti- 
tution made exertions to collect observations in regard to it from its 
meteorological observers and other correspondents, which, together 
with accounts from newspapers and other sources, were placed in the 
hands of Professor Coffin, of Lafayette College, for the determination of 
the orbit of the meteor. In order to correct the observations, in cases 
where instruments could not be obtained. Professor Coffin directed that 
estimates should be made of the position of the meteor, by means of an 
extemporaneous quadrant, consisting of a graduated paper attached to 
a board, fi'om an angle of which a small plumb-line was suspended. 
The edge of this instrument being directed to the place in the heavens 
where the meteor was seen at its greatest elevation, gave approximately 
the angle of altitude. Tlie meteor was first observed moving irom a 
point over the western shore of Lake Michigan, though it is not improb- 
able that it became luminous when it was somewhat fjtrther west, as the 
sky in that region was obscured by clouds, and it was not until it had 
reached a point 150 miles further east that the first reliable observation 
of its position was made; from this point many eyes watched its course, 
until it disai)peared out at sea, in a southeasterly direction, beyond the 
island of Nantucket. Whatever may have been the orbit of this meteor 
before it became visible, it is obvious that the portion of the path that 
4s 



50 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

was subject to observation was so near the earth as to be controlled 
almost entirely by its attraction, and not sensibly perturbed by other 
bodies. The orbit therefore ascertained, is not the path of the meteor in 
space, but that liaving the center of the earth in one of its foci. Pro- 
fessor Cofiin proceeded with the data at his command, to determine the 
path upon the assumption that the earth was a sphere 7,912 miles in 
diameter, not taking into account its spheroidal form, nor the difference 
between the ^rue and the apparent zenith. In prosecuting the investi- 
gations, the method adopted was as follows : The parallax and position 
of the meteor were obtained by combining in pairs observations taken 
on or near the same vertical plane. Unfortunately, the number of pairs 
Of reliable observations v/as too few for much accuracy. An approxi- 
mate orbit was, however, determined, fi^om which azimuths and alti- 
tudes were deduced, and these compared with those given by the obser- 
vations. The form of the orbit was then altered so as to diminish the 
discrepancies, and it was not until over fifty changes of this kind had 
been made that the final result was attained. The velocity i^er second, 
relative to the earth's center, vvhich best corresponded with observations, 
was nine and three-fourths miles. The first approximate orbit satisfied 
the most reliable observations west of about longitude 76° or 77° ; but 
further east the discrepancies were so great that they could be recon- 
ciled only by a sudden change in the curvatiu'e of the path, one at the 
point just named, and another two or three degrees further east. In the 
vicinity of the former of these points a remarkable rupture in the body 
of the meteor was observed, where it separated into two i^arts that 
appeared nearly of equal size, thus affording a rational explanation of 
the change in the elements. That a change should take i^lace at a point 
of explosion was not difficult to understand, but the fact that the 
meteor descended quite rapidly towards the earth, until it reached the 
meridian of 74°, and afterwards rose, was difiicult to comprehend. The 
most plausible exphmation was suggested by Professor Lyman, viz: 
that the change in direction was due to the increased resistance of the 
air as the meteor descended into a denser j)ortion. An attempt was 
made to deduce the quantity of the change from this hypothesis ; the 
result, however, was not entirely satisfactorj-, an empirical change 
being assumed in the path near longitude 74°. An orbit was computed, 
the path of the meteor divided itself into three sections, the first and 
last of indefinite length, through only a small portion of which the 
meteor was visible ; the other an intermediate portion of 160 miles in 
length, where it was most brilliant. The most important omission in 
the calculation of the elements of this meteor, according to Professor 
Cofiin himself, was that of the spheroidal form of the earth, which be- 
came of importance in comparison with the small height of the mcteorj 
but with the hope that the subject might hereafter receive at the hands 
of others a more thorough discussion, he concluded to slightly modify 
the elements, so as to afford an unperturbed orbit that would differ so 



REPORT OF TII'E SECRETARY. 51 

little from the disturbed one, that the azimuths aud the altitudes which 
he had already computed for the one might serve for the other. The 
velocity of the meteor, Miien nearest the earth, was 9.76 miles per second ; 
its least distance from the surface of the earth was 3U.10 miles, at about 
the middle of New York. 

Correspondence. — As the collaborators of the Institution generally 
reside at a distance, the business with them is principally carried on 
by mail. The same is also the case in regard to all the exchanges, and 
consequently the record of nearly all the transactions of the Institution 
is contained in the correspondence. Besides those relating to official 
busmess, himdi-eds of letters are received during the year, containing 
inquiries relative to the various subjects on which the writers desire 
information. If these cannot be immediately answered without much 
research, they are referred to collaborators who are experts in the vari- 
ous branches of knowledge, and who can readily supply information in 
regard to subjects within the range of their special studies. 

In addition to the foregoing it may also be mentioned that there are 
four hundred meteorological observers, from each of whom several letters 
are received annually. The correspondence of the Institution being of 
such importance, it has been considered necessary to adopt a system in 
regard to it, which consists in registering in a book i)repared for the 
purpose, every letter received which pertains to the business of the In- 
stitution. The mail is opened every morning by an assistant, who 
assigns to each letter a number, gives a synopsis of its contents, <md 
notes to whom it is referred for answer. The letters are afterwards 
bound in volumes and indexed. Press copies are kept of all the answers. 
An idea may be formed of the amount of labor bestowed upon this 
branch of operations, when it is mentioned that the number of letters 
registered during 1808 was 5,141. This does not include letters 
acknowledging the receipt of donations from the Institution, which 
would swell the number of actual receipts by the mail to upwards of 
10,000. 

During the past year references of inquiries above referred to have 
been made to the foUoM'ing gentlemen: Dr. Torrey, of New York ; Pro- 
fessors Gray and Wyman, of Cambridge; Dr. Leidy and Mr. Isaac Lea, 
of Philadelphia; Professors AVhitney, Brush, and Newton, of New 
Haven ; Drs. Woodward, Otis and Craig, of the Surgeon General's 
ofdce; Prof. Schaefter and Mr. W. B. Taylor, of the Patent Oflice; Pro- 
fessor S. Newcomb, of the Naval Observatory ; and Mr. George Gibbs 
and Mr. J. H. Lane, of Washington. 

Grounds. — The Smithsonian building, as is well known to the visitors of 
Washington, stands in the midst of a park, adorned Avith a collection 
of the principal ornamental trees which are susceptible of cultivation in 
this climate. This forms part of a reservation of the government 
denominated the "Mall," extending from the Capitol to the Potomac, 



52 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

wliich, in accordance with tlie design of Mr. Downing, was to be entirely 
devoted to an extensive park. 

Tliis plan has been revived by the present Commissioner of Public 
Buildings, General Michler, of the United States army, who strongly 
advocates an appropriation for carrying it into execution. On the 
gromids adjoining the Institution to the west, also a part of the pro- 
posed park, within the last year a spacious building has been erected 
for the uses of the Department of Agriculture, and designs have been 
made under the present Commissioner, General Capron, for the estab- 
lishment of an extensive arboretum. With the renewed interest which 
has been excited on this subject, and the rapid advance of the city in 
wealth and population, we doubt not the original -plan will soon be real- 
ized. In the mean time, however, we would call attention to the fact 
that many of the valuable trees originally planted by Downing are being 
injured by the luxuriant growth and consequent crowding of those too 
near each other. Though the ^dsitors to the Institution — and the num- 
ber of these is by no means small in the course of a year, and from every 
part of the world — are delighted with the general appearance of the 
grounds and the pictm^esque effect of the building, yet their sense of 
j)ropriety is shocked and their olfactory nerves outraged, in approaching 
the 'building from the city, by having to cross that most disgusting ob- 
ject known as the "canal," though for years it has done no service of 
any value in that capacity. It is, in fact, a Stygian pool, from which 
are constantly ascending in bubbles, as from a caldron, mephitic vapors. 
That part of it which bounds the Smithsonian grounds and those of 
the Agricultural Department, on the north, consists of a basin 150 feet 
Avide, extending from Seventh street to Fourteenth street. Into this is 
poured most of the excrementitious matter of the city, which is suffered 
to decompose into offensive gases, and exposes with each ebb of the 
tide a mass of the most offensive matter conceivable. This subject, at 
the last session of the Board of Eegents, was referred to the executive 
committee, w^ho have given it special attention, and prepared a report 
which will be presented to the Board at the present session, and should 
be ordered to be published.* 

The only reason assigned for suffering this nuisance to remain so long 
unabated is the difficulty of settling upon a plan of remedying the 
e\Tl, but surely this need not longer to stand in the way since there is 
engineering ability enough in the country to solve problems of greater 
intricacy than the one under consideration. The only effectual cure of 
the evil is, in my opinion, to fill up the present basin, and construct 
a covered sewer of sufficient capacity to receive that part of the 
drainage of the city which cannot be turned in other directions. A 
wide street with concave surface to discharge very rare freshets, 
would afford a* series of building lots of sufficient value to pay the 

* This report will be found in tlie journal of proceedings of tlie Board of Regents in 
this volume. 



REPORT OF TPIE SECRETxYRY. 53 

expense of tlie improvement, while tlie value of property soutli of the 
canal avouUI be greatly enhanced. 

Before concluding this sketch of the history of the operations of the 
Institution for the year 18GS, it becomes my duty to mention the death 
of Mr. William B. Eandolph, who for many years has acted as book- 
keeper for the Institution, posting and auditing its accounts, and who 
for GO yejrs had been connected with the Treasury Department of the 
government. He was a gentleman of extensive information, a graduate 
of Princeton College, of intlexible integrity, esteemed and beloved by 
all who knew him. His life was prolonged with vigor of intellect be- 
yond the usual term of earthly existence, and he died on the loth of 
May last at the age of 81. 

Since the death of Mr. Eandolph the entire charge of the accounts 
has been given to the chief clerk, Mr. William J. Ehees, by whom they 
are prepared for quarterly examination by General Delafield and Dr. 
Parker, of the executive committee. 

In conclusion, from all the facts which have been given in this report, 
as well as in previous ones, we think it may reasonably be claimed that 
the administration, of the Smithson fund, on the whole, has been success- 
ful. Though the Institution has been subjected to loss by casualties, 
and has been exposed to adverse conditions during the most troublous 
times in the history of the na':ion, yet it has continued noiselessly and 
unostentatiously to extend its inHuence and benefits not only to every 
part of this country, but to all portions of the civilized world. This 
success, if mainly due to the definiteness of conception in the original 
plan, must, in no small degree, be attributed to the fact that the Chief 
Justice of the United States is the head of the Board of Eegents, Avhose 
l^ermanence of office, aside from other considerations, could not ftiil to 
secure, as has been conspicuously evinced in the case of both Judge Taney 
and Judge Chase, a warm and intelligent interest in the affairs of the 
Institution. Neither is it i^ossible to overlook, in this connection, the 
favorable influence of the policy which, from the first, has invested in a 
single officer, the Secretary, the executive charge of the operations, thus 
contiding to him their conduct and rendering him responsible for their 
results, without in a single case interfering with his acts. Moreover, 
simi)le justice would require that due credit should be given to the capa- 
ble and zealous assistants whom the Secretary has associated with him- 
self in carrying on the multifarious and arduous duties of his oflice. 

Eespectfully submitted. 

JOSEPH HENEY. 
Washington, D. C, January^ 1869. 



APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 



Table shoicing the entries in the record hoolis of the Smithsonian Museum in 

18GG, 1807, and 1868. 



Class. 


1866. 


1867. 


1868. 




7,100 
8,685 

45, 000 
6, 582 
5,591 

10, 400 
1,287 

18, 500 
2, 725 
110 
5,920 
4,941 
2,260 


7,500 
8,900 

50, 000 
7,150 
5,625 

13, 300 
1,287 

18,500 
2,725 
110 
6,600 
5,150 
5,400 
175 


8,150 


Maninials . .. .- . -- 


9,300 


Birds 


54, 000 


Reptiles .-. . .. 


7,200 




5,625 


tcrgs of birds - 


14,100 


Crustaceans .. -- 


1,287 




18, 500 


Radiates -. .. . . 


2,725 




110 


Fossils . . 


7,200 


Minerals ......... . ... 


6, 625 


Ethnological specimens . . .. 


7,400 


Plants 


175 








Total 


119,101 


132, 322 


142, 400 







The total number of entries during the year thus amounts to about 
10,000; of which 4,000 are of birds, 2,000 of ethnological objects, 800 
of eggs, &c. 



Aiiproximate table of distribution of duplicate specimens, to the end of 

1868. 





Distribution to end 
of 1867. 


Distribution in 1868. 


Total. 




Species. 


Specimens. 


Species. 


Specimens. 


Species. 


Specimens. 


Skulls and skeletons . 
Mammals 


105 

808 
9,437 
1,662 
2, 424 
3, 887 
71,764 

551 
1,013 
1,838 

13,358 
3,361 
1,718 
1,048 
1,190 


105 

1,588 

14, 579 

2,715 

5,200 

10, 101 

169, 866 

727 

2,516 

5, 152 

18,703 
8, 927 
6, 059 
1,048 
1,937 


24 

44 

571 

37 


58 

79 

861 

107 


129 

852 

10, 008 

1,699 

2, 424 

4,151 

72, 970 

551 

1,013 

1,838 

13, 658 
3,401 
2,118 
1,107 
1,420 
15 


163 

1,667 


Birds 


15, 440 

2, 822 

5,200 

10, 627 

172 472 


Reptiles 


Fishes 


'Eggs of birds 

Shells 


264 
1,206 


526 

2,606 


Rad iates 


727 


Crustaceans 






2,516 


Marine invertebrates . . 






5, 152 


Plants and packages 
of seeds -. 


300 
40 

400 
59 

230 
15 


515 
75 

595 

59 

650 

555 


19,213 
9 002 


Fossils .- .. 


Minerals and rocks.. . 
Ethnology 


6, 654 
1, 107 


Insects 


2,587 


Diatomaceous earth . . 


555 










Total 


114,164 


249, 223 


3,190 


6,686 


117,354 


255, 909 





ADDITIONS TO THE COLLECTIONS. 55 

Additions to the collections of the Smithsonian Institution in 18G8. 

Adams, Dr. A. — Nest and es^g of wliite-wingecl crossbill, New Brunswick. 

Adams, W. II. — Arrow-head, Illinois. 

Agnew, Samuel A. — Fossils and Indian relics, Mississippi. 

Albuqu€yqi(C, Frederick. — Two boxes of birds and niaininals, Brazil. 

Ames, James T. — Beads, tfcc, from Indian graves, Lake Superior and IMassa- 
cliusetts. 

Andross, TF. — Indian relics from Connecticut. 

Arnold, Boijamin W. — Plialang-idse and niyriapods, Kentucky. 

Baggett, J. B. — Box of novaculite and associated minerals, Arkansas. 

Baird, Prof. S. F. — Stone implements, worked bones, shells, and bones of ver- 
tebrates, from ancient shell-heaps in New Brunswick and Massachusetts; bones 
from cave near Carlisle, Pennsylvania. 

Barnes. — (See Surgeon General.) 

Bauermeister, W. — Box of minerals, Indiana. 

Bclden, Lieutenanf, U. S. A — Box Indian objects, Wyoming Territory. 

Berendt, Dr. — Bottle of reptiles and nest of caterpillar, from Mexico and Gua- 
temala; earth eaten by Indians of Mexico. 

Berthoud, Dr. E. L. — Box human bones and fragments of mastodon, Colorado 
Territory. 

Bischoff, Ferd. — General collections from Japan, East Siberia, Gulf of "Califor- 
nia, and Alaska. 

Blackmore, W. — Collection of electrotypes of ancient British coins and medals ; 
model of Stonehenge. 

BlaJce, Charles. — Stone axe, Massachusetts. 

Bliss, L. IF.^Three skulls of mound builders, Wisconsin. 

Boardman, G. A. — Indian relics, ancient Indian anchor, skins of birds and mam 
mals, and birds' egjgs from Maine, and bird skins from Florida. 

Bollcs, llcv. E. C. — Box of diatomaceous earth, Maine. 

Bowman, J. B. — Two pieces marble, one of ash-wood, from Ashland, Kentucky. 

Brewer, John. — Relics from ancient shell-beds and Indian graves, at Hingham, 
IMassachusetts. 

British Museum. — One can of fishes from Zanzibar. 

Brown, Dr. G. II. — One box petrified wood, jasper, agate, &c,, from the West 
Indies. 

Bryan, 0. N. — Indian pottery and stone implements, Maryland. 

Bryant, Mrs. E. IJ. — Indian ndics, Massachusetts. 

Burr, Fcuriny. — Brass trinkets from m(«leni Indian graves, Massachusetts. 

Burroughs, J. — Gcotldgins Philadelphia and eggs. New York. 

Calleja, Manuel L. — Box of birds, Costa Rica. 

Canfield, Dr. C. A. — Two 1)oxes specimens of natural history from California. 

Carmichael, Daniel. — Stone implements, Maine. 

Christ, Richard. — Stone axes, arrows, tScc, I'ennsylvania. 

Cole, Levi. — Stone sinlcer and arrows, Massachusetts. 

Coole, J. M. — Specimens of corundum and emery, Pennsylvania. 

Cope, Prof. E. D. — One can of the IVesh- water fishes of Virginia; one box rnioceno 
sliells, Maryland ; one can alcoholic specimens. 

Corhin, N. J. — One lamprey eel and one snake, District of Columbia. 

Curtis, Dr. M. A. — Field mice in alcohol. 

Dall, W. II. — General zoological and other collections, Youkon river, Alaska 
Territory. 

Davidson, George, United States Coast Survey. — One box geological specimens, 
two cans shells, and one lot of botanical specimens, and specimens of woods, 
Alaska Territory. 

Dacis, Henry. — I'ackage shells, myriapods, &c., Iowa. 



56 ADDITIONS TO THE COLLECTIONS. 

Davis, Dr. E. H. — Casts of Nortli American antiquities, types of figures in 

" ancient monuments of Mississippi valley." 
Davison, C. E. — Lepidoptera in alcohol, Michigan. 

Dayton, E. A. — Indian implements, pottery, bones, and minerals, Tennessee. 
Destniges, Dr. A. — Box of bird skins, reptiles, &c., in alcohol. South America. 
Dcvereux, J. H. — Three boxes Indian relics from mounds in Tennessee, Ohio, &c. 
Donalioe, Thomas. — Pileated woodpecker (Hyl. pileatusj in the flesh. 
Dole, E. 2'.— Insects from Ohio. 

Doio, Captain J. M. — Tapirus Bairdii, and other specimens in alcohol, minerals 
and fossils, insects, of Central America ; antiquities from Costa Rica and Chiri- 
qui. 
Earle, W. H. — Mallotus in clay nodule, Ottawa river, Canada. 
Eaton, Franh. — Indian stone relics, Pennsylvania. 
Edwards, Dr. W. H. — Two boxes of fossil coal plants, Indian relics, &c., West 

Virginia. 
Ellsworth, Mr. — Stone implements and marine animals, Massachusetts. 
Engelmann, Dr. George. — Series of Juncea, (American.) 
Feltz, George B. — Stone hoe, JMassachusetts. 
Fenton, Elisha. — Minerals and Indian relics, Pennsylvania. 
Fcrnald, C. J. — Ancient pipe, Aroostook county, Maine. 
Fink; Hugo. — Specimens of wood of Mexican trees. 
Fitski, f^dwa/rd. — Silver quartz, Zellerfield, Hanover. 
Flint, Dr. Earl. — Collection of plants from Nicaragua. 
Forte, A. E. — Box of insects. Lake Superior. 

Frolick, Jacob, jr. — One inferior maxillary' bone, (human,) Arkansas. 
Gerrish, Noah W. — Indian relics, Massachusetts. 
Giraud, J. P. — Type of Icterus Auduhonii, Texas. 

Glover, Prof. T. — Bone of bear, horns of spike buck, Florida ; African tattooing 
apparatus, Indian arrow-heads. 

Gordon, T. W. — IMole cricket, Ohio.. 

Grant, Captain E. M. — Stone idol from Tennessee. 

Gray, Dr. C. C, and Dr. Mathews. — One box Indian curiosities from Montana 
Territory. 

Grayson, Colonel A. J. — Three boxes birds, &c., Mazatlan, Mexico. 

Gregory, J. J. H. — Indian relics, Massachusetts. 

Grinnan, A. G. — Bottle of reptiles and Indian relics, Virginia. 

Griiber, F. — One box birds, California. 

Gimn, Donald. — Two boxes birds' eggs from west of Lake Winnipeg ; zoological 
specimens, Hudson's Bay territory. 

Hackenburg, Dr. G. P., United States army. — Baculite, Mauvaise Terres. 

Hague, Henry. — Alcoholic collections and specimens of natural history, Gua- 
temala. 

Hagemann, G. A. — Cryolite, &c., Greenland. 

Haley, Mr. — Stone axe from Maine. 

Hamilton, James. — Stone chisel, Pennsylvania. 

Hammond, Phillip. — Lower jaw of a porpoise, Massachusetts. 

Hathaway, Gideon P. — Large Indian pestle, Massachusetts. 

Haymond, Dr. Eufus. — Box Indian relics from Indiana. 

Hawkins, Samuel. — Sharks' teeth, Mississippi. 

Hazzard, G. W. — Sulphuret of iron, Pennsylvania. 

Hielscher, Thomas — Three bottles insects, minerals, &c., Minnesota. 

Hitchcock, Prof. Edward. — Indian relics from New England. 

Hitz, 11. B. — Collections of specimens of natural history, geology, and ethnology, 
Dakota and Montana. 

Hoover, Harry. — ]\Iinerals and Indian relics, Pennsylvania. 

Hopkins, Prof. W. H. — Newly-formed sandstone, New York. 



ADDITIONS TO THE COLLECTIONS. 57 

Iloran, Henry. — Skin and skeleton of JMadas^ascar rabbit, and skull of goat. 
Hoirard, Captain W. A., U. S. B. M. — Two skeletons of the sea otter, one skin 

of sea otter, (young,) and ethnological collections, Aleutian islands. 
noiccU, IL — Indian relics, southern New York. 
Hudson, W. H. — Box of bird skins, Buenos Ayres. 
Ires, Frank. — Specimen of orthoceratit(^ 

Imperial Botanic Garden, St. Petersburg. — Two boxes of plants, Russian empire. 
Janirs, Praf. Charles A. — Living horned frog. 
Jejj'rics, J. B. — One box titnniferous ore, Virginia. 

Jenls, Prof. J. W. P. — Large collection of Indian relics, IMassachusetts. 
Jeicetf, diaries. — Recent marine shells, coast of Maine. 
Jcicett, Colonel E. — Collection of Florida shells, Indian relics, New York, New 

Jersey, &c. 
Jones, Prof. C. M. — Geological and zoological collections, Connecticut. 
Kecnan, T. J. B. — Insects, fossils, and Indian relics, Mississippi. 
Kcini, the late Hon. George W., through his children. — Three boxes Indian reiics, 

Pennsylvania. 
King, Clarence. — Fifty boxes of general collections, made in Nevada and Utah, 

diu'ing United Spates geological survey of 40th parallel. 
Larliin, IJ. P. — Birds, &c., in alcohol. 
Latimer, George. — Six jars alcoholic specimens, and one oval stone ring. West 

Indies. 
Lan-rcnec, George JSf. — Tliree species of humming birds, South America. 
Linccum, Dr. G. — Zoological specimens and fossils, from Texas, &c 
Lincdln, Benjamin. — r)Ox Indian relics, Maine. 
Limpert, W. B. — One l)ox birds' eggs, and two bird skins, Ohio. 
Loclcett, S. H. — Minerals and fossils, Louisiana. 
Lockhart, James. — Insects, &;c., of Hudson's bay. 
Logan, Thomas M. — Skull of Digger Indian, California. 

Lour, Ahram. — Relics from ancient sliell heaps and Indian graves, Massachusetts. 
Lyon, Sidney S. — Seven barrels and four boxes of bones of mound builders, and 

relics from mounds in Kentucky. 
McComas, Br. I. Lee. — Skin of Lepus amcricanus, (white,) two goshawks, and 

skull of red fox, from Maryland. 
McCulloch, Hon. H., Secretary of the Treasury, United States. — Specimens of 

coal from Cook's inhit, Alaska Territory. 
McDougal, J. — Two boxes birds' eggs, Youkon river. 
McFarlanc, B. — Sixteen boxes, eleven packages, and one keg of specimens of 

natural history and ethnidogy, Mackenzie River district, Hudson Bay territory. 
3Ialoney, H. I>. — Indian relics, Tennessee. 
Ilerritt, J. C. — Indian arrows. Long island. 

Mills, Major W. H. — Bow, arrows, and ('(juipment of Apache Indians. 
Minor, Br. Thomas T. — Two boxes minerals, animals, and ethnological speci- 
mens, Alaska Temtory; drawings niade by Winnebago Indians. 
Moore, C. B. — Indian relics, and skin of Jaculus hudsonicus, Virginia. 
Nelson, W. — Fulgora, and large grasshopper and sea snake, I'anaina. 
Orton, Prof — Box of plants, Venezuela ; can of alcoholic fishes. South America. 
Palmer, Br. Edward. — Ten boxes specimens of natural history and ethnology, 

Kansas and Indian territory. 
Palmer, Dr. Charles. — Stone gouge and axe, Massachusetts. 
Parker, Br. N. — Bones iVom ancient shell heaps in New Brunswick. 
Payne, Br. — Box of minerals. 
Peabody, Leonard. — Indian relics from ]\[aine. 
Pcarsall, B. jP. — Nest and eggs of Empidonax frailli, New York. 
Peyton, Bobert E., M. D. — Micaceous ore of iron, Virginia. 
Pollis, Mr. — Slate spear, Maine. 



58 ADDITIONS TO THE COLLECTIONS. 

Potvell, Prof. — Two boxes birds, Colorado. 

liceve, J. F. — Collection of bird skins, South America. 

Iieid, Peter. — Box of flint arrow-beads, New York. 

PeinharcU, Dr. J. — Skeleton of Cervus alces, Scandinavia. 

Ilice, Louis V. — Fossils from Lake Huron. 

Pixlifer, Jacob. — Minerals from Virginia. 

Boss, A. C. — Indian relics and elephant's tooth, Zanesville, Ohio. 

PiOSS, B. R. — Specimens of Bcrnida leucopsis, and other birds, fossils, &c., Hud- 
son's Bay territor3^ 

Salvin, 0. — Four birds, and box of eggs. Central America. 

Sam])son, Uriah. — Stone gouge, Massachusetts. 

Sargent, Daniel. — One box flamingo eggs, from the Bahamas. 

Sartorius, Dr. — Collection of birds and alcoholic specimens, Mexico. 

ScJiooIcraft, Mrs. M. H. — Indian relics, axes, aiTow-heads, &c., and plaster casts 
of inscription on Dighton rock. 

Schott, Dr. A. — Botanical and zoological collections, Yucatan. 

Selhnan, Dr. J. — Sharks' teeth, Mississippi. 

Seagrave, 0. B. — One snake and two lepediptera, Florida. 

Shaw, Ehen. — Stone mortar, Middleboro', Massachusetts. 

Slicppard, Leicis. — One milk snake. 

Sherwood, Andreiv. — One box of rocks and fossils from Pennsylvania. 

Shinier, Prof. Henry. — Living golden eagle, from northern Illinois ; bird skins 
from Illinois. 

Slagel, J. W. — Indian stone axe and other relics, and miocene fossils, from 
Maryland. 

Smith, Dr. J. B. — Box of birds, Bahia, Brazil. 

Sx>encer, Dr. L. B. — Stalagmite from Virginia. 

Starhe, Mr. — Insects, shells, minerals, &c., Venezuela. 

Stearns, It. E. C. — Collection of shells, California. 

Steele, G. — Indian relics, California. 

Stinson, Captain James. — Tertiary shells. New Brunswick. 

Stone, J. M. — Fossil shells, Illinois. 

Stratton, Thomas. — Two packages minerals, &c., Mt. Baker, Washington Ter- 
ritory. 

Stratton, L. — Indian relics from New York. 

Sumichrast, Dr. — Zoological collections, Orizaba, Mexico. 

Simdcvall, Prof C. J., btochhohn. — Birds of St. Bartholomew and Galapagos 
islands, (for Academy of Sciences.) 

Surgeon General United States Army. — Minerals, &c.. Upper Missouri ; box of 
minerals collected by Dr. B. B. Miles, United States army. 

Sylrcster, S. H. — Indian relics, Massachusetts. 

Talcn, Bev. V. — Specimen of granite used in Mormon temple, Salt Lake City; 
also photograph of the building. 

Thaxter, L. L. — Tardus swainsoni imdp)cdlasi, Massachusetts. 

Thomas, 31., 8f Sons. — A complete skeleton, and separate head of Irish fossil elk. 

Tltompson, Bev. D. — Box fossils and Indian relics, Ohio. 

Thompson, Mrs. J. — Cane carved by Nisqually Indians. 

Todd, Dr. W. 11. — Relics fi'om ancient shell beds in New Brunswick. 

Tolman, Mr. — One box birds' eggs, Illinois. ; 

Tyler, Samuel. — Indian stone axe. Prince George county, Maryland 

Ullrieh, Lewis. — One specimen garfish, and two boxes lepidoptera, Ohio. 

University of St. Thomas, Costa Pica, Prof Lucien Piatt. — Two boxes minor- 
als, &c. 

Van Patten, Dr. C. H. — Two mammals, Guatemala. 

Von Frantsius, Dr. A. — Birds, mammals, &c., from Costa Rica. 

Wakefield, Dr. E. St. George. — Skin of Arkansas siskin, Arispe. 



ADDITIONS TO THE COLLECTIONS, 59 

WaJJiCr, B. L. — Spcriiuens of living inonopoma, .and one box Indian relics, one 

living tortoise, and other collections, IVnnsylvauia. 
WdltcVf WiUiavi. — Twenty-five bird skins. District of Columbia. 
Wilcox, H. B. — Fresh-water shells, Michigan. 

Willxcs, Ad »i inline harks. — Two stone axes, Gaston county, North Carolina. 
Wilson, Br. S. W. — Living gophers, (Testudo jpolyphemus,) Georgia. 
Wise, II. G. — Cock's spurs. New York. 
Wood, Dr. Wdlium. — Indian relics, Connecticut. 
Wriyht, Charles. — One box land shells, fishes, insects, &c., from Cuba. 
Wijiiian, Professor J. — Humerus of Alca iwxjcnnis, from shell heap, in Maine. 
Yates, Dr. L. G. — i^atural history and archselogical specimens, Califbriua, &c. 



LITERARY AND SCIENTIFIC EXCHANGES/ 



Table shoicing the statistics of the Smithsoniari exchang 


es in 1868. 


Agent and country. 


o ^ 
IS <a 


i 

a 


a> 
O 

.£! 

o 

a 


.3 
pq 


03 
0) 

X 
® to 

^§ 

II 

r 


Dr. Felix Flugel, Leipsic : 

Eussia 


52 

370 

38 


88 

441 

51 








Germany 








Switzerland 
















Total .' 


460 


580 


36 


378 


10,821 




Royal Swedish Society of Sciences, Stockholm : 
Sweden 


12 


29 


2 


21 


650 






Koyal University, Christiania : 

Norway . ... . ...... 


8 


17 


2 


21 


650 






Eoyal Danish Society of Sciences, Copenhagen : 
Iceland 


1 
14 


2 

25 








Denmark 
















Total 


15 


27 


2 


21 


650 






Frederic Muller, Amsterdam : 

Holland 


50 
26 


78 
39 








Belgium 
















Total 


76 


117 


6 


63 


1 950 






G. Bossange, Paris: 

France 


147 

8 
4 


185 

11 

G 








Spain 








Portuffal 
















Total 


159 


191 


15 


157 


4 875 






E. Institute Lombardo, Milan : 

Italy 


81 


91 


5 


53 


1 625 






W. Wesley, Loudon : 

Great Britain and Ireland 


219 


317 


22 


231 


7 150 






Kest of the world 


99 


177 


14 


112 


2,800 




Grand Total 


1,129 


1,557 


104 


1,057 


31 171 







LITERARY AND SCIENTIFIC EXCHANGES. 



61 



Packages received hi/ the Smithsonian Institution from parties in America, 
for foreign distribution, in i8G8. 



Address. 



ALBANY, NEW YORK. 

New York State University 

Professor J. Hall 

ANN ARBOU, MICHIGAN. 

J.E.Watson 

BALTIMORK, MARYLAND. 

Dr.P.R.Uhler 

T.H.Wynne 

BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS. 

American Academy of Arts and 
Sciences 

Boston Society of Natural History. . . 

Massachusetts Board of State Chari- 
ties 

Public Library 

Robert E. C Steams 

Dr. D. H. Storer 

F.H. Storer 

CAMBRIDGE, MASSACHUSETTS. 

Cambridge Observatory 

Harvard College 

Museum of Coujparative Zoology 

Professor L. Agassiz 

CHICAGO, ILLINOIS. 

Chicago Academy of Sciences 

COLUMBUS, OHIO. 

Ohio State Board of Agriculture 

State of Ohio 

Leo Lesqereux 

DORCHESTER, MASSACHUSETTS. 

Dr. E. .Tarvis 

ERIE, PENNSYLVANIA. 

Kev. L. G. Olmstead 

HAVANA, CUBA. 

Professor F. Poey 

HARTFORD, CONNECTICUT. 

American Asylum for Deaf and Dumb, 






120 
112 



22 



130 
275 

G2 
9 
5 
6 
1 



5 
21 

503 
14U 



74 



89 

1 

30 



12 



]'J 



Address. 



INDIANAPOLIS, INDIANA. 

Indiana Institution for Deaf and 
Dumb 

Indiana Institution for Education of 
Blind 

IOWA CITY, IOWA. 

Iowa Grand Lodge Masons , 

ITHACA, NEW YORK. 
Cornell University 

LOWELL, MASSACHUSETTS. 

James B. Francis 

MONTREAL, CANADA. 

Dr. J. W. Dawson 

NEW HAVEN, CONNECTICUT. 

American Oriental Society 

Cabinet of Yale College , 

Professor G. J. Brush , 

Professor J. D. Dana 

Professor E. Loomis 

Professors Silliman and Dana 

Professor A. E. Verrill 

NEW ORLEANS, LOUISIANA. 

New Orleans Academy of Natural 
Science 

NEW YORK, NEW YORK. 

American Bureau of Mines 

American Christian Commission 

American Microscopical Society 

New York Lyceum of Natural His- 
tory 

A. M.Edwards 

D. Van Nostrand 

NORTHAMPTON, MASSACHUSETTS. 

State Lunatic Hospital 

PHILADELPHIA, PENNSYLVANIA. 

Academy of Natural Sciences 

Academy of Natural Sciences, (Con- 
chological section) 



6^ 

a, 



15 

100 

34 
25 



27 



3 
1 

7 
24 
16 

26 
10 



4 

53 
50 

1]7 

1 

15 



17 

190' 
12 



62 



LITERARY AND SCIENTIFIC EXCHANGES. 



Paclcages received from joarties in America^ &c. — Continued. 



Address. 



PHILADELPHIA, PA. — Continued. 

American Entomological Society ... 

American Pharmaceutical Association 

American Philosophical Society 

Historical Society of Pennsylvania... 

Pennsylvania Institution for Instruc- 
tion of Blind 

James J. Barclay - 

G. W.Childs 

Dr. Isaac Lea 

Dr. J. H. Packard 

Edw Sbippen, President of Board of 
Controllers of Public Schools .■ 

PRINCETON, NEW JERSEY. 
A.D.Brown 

PROVIDENCE, RHODE ISLAND. 

Edwin M. Snow 

ROCHESTER, NEW YORK. 

Darrow «& Kempshall 

ROCKFORD, ILLINOIS. 

M.S.Bebb 

ST, LOUIS, MISSOURI. 

St. Louis Academy of Sciences 

Dr. G. Engelmann 

SALEM, MASSACHUSETTS. 

Essex Institute 

A. Hyatt 

A. S. Packard 




200 



31 



24 
14 



189 
31 
26 



SAN FRANCISCO, CALIFORNIA. 

California Academy of Natural Sci- 
ences 

SANTIAGO, CHILE. 

University of Chile 

SPRINGFIELD, ILLINOIS. 
A.H.Worthen 

TORONTO, CANADA. 

Canadian Institute , 

WASHINGTON, D. C. 

American Nautical Almanac 

Columbia Institute for Deaf and 

Dumb 

Department of Agriculture 

Department of Education 

Department of Interior 

General Land Office 

Library of Congress 

Surgeon General United States army 

United States Coast Survey 

United States Naval Observatory 

United States Patent Office 

L. F. De Pourtales 

A. R. Roessler 

Henry Ulke 

ADDRESS UNKNOWN. 

Charles P. Clever 

Dr. Edwards 

F.N. Hasselquint 

Mrs. Mary Mann 

G.S.Wagner 



54 



20 



85 

125 

323 

1 

14 

2 

17 

2 

260 

87 

484 

14 

1 

1 



9 
12 
1 
6 
1 



6,054 



LITERARY AXD SCIENTIFIC EXCHANGES. 



63 



Paclcages received by the Smithsonian Institution from Europe, in 18G8,/or 
distribution in America. 



Address. 




ALBANY, NEW YOKK. 

Albany Institute 

BuiT-au of Military Statistics 

Dudley Observatory 

New York State Aojricultural Society. 

New Y'ork State Library, Albany 

New \''ork State Medical Society . ... 

New Y^irk State University 

State Cabinet of Natural History, 
Albany 

AJIIIERST, MASSACHUSETTS. 

Amherst College 

ANNAPOLIS, MARYLAND. 

United States Naval Academy 

ANN ARUOR, MICHIGAN. 

Observatoiy 

University of Michigan 

ATHENS, OHIO. 

Ohio University 

AUBURN, NEW YORK. 

New York Lunatic Asylum for Con- 
victs 

AUGUSTA, MAINE. 

State Lunatic Hospital 

AUSTIN, TEXAS. 

State Library 

Texas State Lunatic Hospital 

BALTIMORE, MARYLAND. 

Maryland Historical Society 

Maryland Hospital for Insane 

Mount Hope Institution 

I'eabody Institute , 

BLACKWELL'S ISLAND, NEW YORK. 

City Lunatic Asylum 

BLOOMINGTON, INDIANA, 

Indiana State University , 



4 

17 

20 

23 

3 

3 



BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS. 

American Academy of Arts and Sci- 
ences 

American Christian Examiner 

American Social Science Association. 

American Statistical Association 

American Unitarian Association 

Bosto»ChrJsliau Register 

Boston Society of Natural History 

Bowditch Library 

City Lunatic Asylum 

Massacluis'etts Historical Society 

Massachusetts School of Technology. 
NewE Dglaud Historico-Genealogical 

Society 

North American Review 

Perkins Institution for Blind 

Prison Discipline Society 

Public Library 

State Library 

BRATTLE BORO', VERMONT. 

Vermont Asylum for Insane 

BRUNSWICK, MAINE. 

Bowdoin College 

Historical Society of Maine 

BURLINGTON, VERMONT. 
University of Vermont 

CAMBRIDGE, MASSACHUSETTS. 

American Association for Advance- 
ment of Science 

Astronomical Journal 

Harvard College 

Harvard Natural History Society 

Herbarium of Harvard College 

Museum oi Comparative Zoology 

Observatory of Harvard College 

CHARLESTON, SOUTH CAROLINA. 



Charleston .Journal of Medicine 

Elliott Society of Natural History... 
Society Library 

South Carolina Historical Society.. . 

CHARLOTTESVILLE, VIRGINIA. 

University of Virginia 



64 



LITERARY AND SCIENTIFIC EXCHANGES. 
Faclcages received from Europe^ &c. — Continued. 



Address. 



CIIARLOTTETOWN, PRINCE EDWARD 
ISLAND. 



Royal Agricultural Society.. 

CHICAGO, ILUNOIS. 



Chicago Academy of Sciences 

Dearborn Observatory 

Mecbauics' Institute 



CINCINNATI, OHIO. 



Mechanics' Institute . 
Observatory 



COLUMBIA, MISSOURI. 

Geological Survey of Missouri , 
University 



COLUMBIA, SOUTH CAROLINA. 



South Carolina College. 
State Lunatic Asylum . 



COLUMBUS, OHIO. 



Central Lunatic Asylum 

Ohio Lunatic Asylum 

Ohio State Board of Agriculture. 



CONCORD, NEW HAMPSHIRE. 

New Hampshire Asylum for Insane.. 
New Hampshire Historical Society . .. 

DAVTON, OHIO. 

Southern Lunatic Asylum 

DECORAH, IOWA. 

Lutheran College 

DES MOINES, IOWA. 

State of Iowa 

DETROIT, MICHIGAN. 

Michigan State Agricultural Society., 

FLATBUSH, NEW YORK. 

Kings County Lunatic Asylum 

FLUSHING, NEW YORK. 
Sanford Hall Asylum 



51 
8 
1 



13 



14 



Address. 



FRANKFORD, PENNSYLVANIA. 

Asylum for Insane 

FRANKFORT, KENTUCKY. 

Geological Survey of Kentucky 

FREDERICTON, NEW BRUNSWICK. 



Board of Agriculture. 

King's College 

Legislative Library.. 



FULTON, MISSOURI. 
Lunatic Hospital 

GAMBIER, OHIO. 

Kenyon College 

GEORGETOWN, D. C. 

Georgetown College 

GREENCASTLE, INDIANA. 

Indiana Asbury University.. . 

HALIFAX, NOVA SCOTIA. 



Dalhousie University 

Nova Scotian Institute of Natural Sci- 
ence - 



HAMILTON, NEW YORK. 

Madison University 

HANOVER, NEW HAMPSHIRE. 

Dartmouth College 

HARRISBURG, PENNSYLVANIA. 



State Library 

State Lunatic Hospital. 



HARTFORD, CONNECTICUT. 



Retreat for Insane 

Young Men's Institute . 



HOPKINSVILLE, KENTUCKY. 

Western Lunatic Asylum 



INDIANAPOLIS, INDIANA. 



Hospital for Insane 

Indiana Historical Society. 



LITERAKY AND SCIENTIFIC EXCHANGES. 
PacluKjes received from Europe, &c. — Coiitiuued. 



65 



Address. 



IX.MANSVILLE, WISCONSIN. 

Wisconsin Scaudiuavian Society 

IOWA CITY, IOWA. 

Iowa State University 

ITHACA, NEW YORK. 

Cornell College 

JACKSON, LOUISIANA. 

Lunatic Asylum 

JACKSON, MISSISSIPPI. 

State Lunatic Asylum 

JACKSONVILLE, ILLINOIS. 

Hospital for Insane 

Institution tor Blind 

JANESVILLE, WISCONSIN. 

Institution for Blind 

JEFFERSON CITY, MISSOURI. 

Historical and Philosophical Society 

JESUS ISLE, CANADA. 

Observatory of St. Martin 

KALAMAZOO, MICHIGAN. 

Ilosjiital for Insane 

KINGSTON, CANADA. 

Botanical Society of Canada 

Observatory 

KINGSTON, JAMAICA. 

Jamaica Society of Arls 

LEBANON, TENNESSEE. 

Cumberland University 

LEWISDURG, PENNSYLVANIA. 

University 

LEXINGTON, KENTUCKY. 

Eastern Lunatic Asylum 

5 s 



14 



Address. 



LITCHFIELD, CONNECTICUT. 

Retreat for Insane 

LITTLE ROCK, ARKANSAS. 

State Library 

LOUISVILLE, KENTUCKY. 
University of Louisville 

MADISON, WISCONSIN. 

Skandinaviske Presseforening 

State Historical Society of Wisconsin 
Srate Library 

Wisconsin Natural History Society. 
Wisconsin State Agricultural Society 

MIDDLETOWN, CONNECTICUT. 

Wesleyan University 

MILL CREEK, OHIO. 

Lunatic Asylum 

MILLEDGEVILLE, GEORGIA. 

State Lunatic Asylum 

University 

MDNTPELIER, VERMONT. 

State Library 

MONTREAL, CANADA. 

Geological Survey of Canada 

Historical Society 

McGill College 

Natural History Society 

Societe d'Agriculture duBasCanada 

NASHVILLE, TENNESSEE. 

Hospital for Insane 

University of Nashville 

NEW BRUNSWICK, NEW JERSEY. 

Geological Survey of New Jersey.. 

NEWBURG, OHIO. 

Northern Lunatic Asylum 

NEW HAVEN, CONNECTICUT, 

American Journal of Science and Art 



t*- 


o 


o 


=n 




« 


c^ 


"/^ 


03 




& 



IG 



1 

5 

6 

1 

24 



1 

1 
1 

28 
I 



42 



BG LITERARY AND SCIENTIFIC EXCHANGES. 

Paclcages received from Euroi)e^ &c. — Coiitiuued. 



Address. 



Kt:w HAVEN, CONN. — Continued. 



American Oriental Society 

(^.'onnecticut Academy of Sciences. 
Yale College 




NEW ORLEANS, LOUISIANA. 

New Orleans Academy of Sciences 



NEW YOliK, NEW YORK. 



American Christian Commission 

AmericHU Eclectic Medical Review 

American Ethnolofjical Society 

American Geographical and Statistical 

Society 

Ameri can Journal of Mining 

American Institute, 

American Microscopical Society 

Astor Library 

Bloomingdale Asylum for Insane 

Columbia College 

Herbarium of Columbia College 

Historical Society 

Lyceum of Natural History 

Mercantile Library Association 

New York Academy of Medicine 

New York Christian Inquirer 

New York Journal of Medicine 

School of Mines 

United States Sanitary Commission - 
University 



NORTHAMPTON, MASSACHUSETTS. 

State Lunatic Hospital . 

OXFORD, OHIO. 



Miami University. 



PIHLADELPHIA, PENNSYLVANIA. 

Academy o-f Natural Sciences 

American Entomological Society 

American Journal ot Medical Science. 
American Pharmaceutical Associa- 
tion 

American Piiilosojihical Society 

Ceiuial High School 

Frariklin Institute 

Historical Society of Pennsylvania . . 

House of Refuge 

Journal of Conchology 

Library Company 

Medical Cliirurgical Review 

Observatory ot Giiard Ccdlege 

Pennsylvania Horticultural Society.. 
Pennsylvania Hospital for Insane... 
Pennsylvania Institution for Blind .. 



17 
13 



28 



21 

2 

13 

31 
2 

]6 
1 
.'} 
1 
1 
1 
2 

74 
1 
1 
1 
1 
6 
7 
4 



159 

12 

4 

27 
82 
1 
29 
7 
1 
3 
2 
2 

1 

■• 

1 
1 



Address. 



J3 -J 



PHILADELPHIA, PA. — Continued. 

Pennsylvania Institution for Deaf 
and Dumb 

Pbiladelpliia Hospittl 

Pliila/lelphia Journal of Medicine 

Philadelphia Society for Alleviating 

the Miseries of Public Prisons 

Wagner Free Institute 

PITTSBURG, PENNSYLVANIA. 

Western Hospital for Insane . 

PORTLAND, MAINE. 

Portland Society of Natural History 

POUGHKEEPSIE, NEW YORK. 

Vassar College 

PRINCETON, NEW JERSEY. 

College of New Jersey 

PROVIDENCE, RHODE ISLAND. 

Brown University 

Butler Hospital for Insane 

Rhode Island Historical Society ... 

QUEBEC, CANADA, 

Astronomical Observatory 

Library of Parliament 

Literal"}' and Historical Society of 
Quebec 

RALEIGH, NORTH CAROLINA. 

Insane Asylum 

RICHMOND, VIRGINIA. 

State Library 

ST. JOHN'S, NEW BRUNSWICK. 

Natural History Society of New 
Brunswick 

Newfoundland Agricultural Society 

ST. LOUIS, MISSOURI. 

Deutsche Instituts zur Beforderung 

von Wissenchaften 

Mercantile Library 

St. Louis Academy of Science . . , . . 
University 



LITERARY AND SCIENTIFIC EXCHANGES. 
Paclcages received from Europe^ t&c. — Contiuucd. 



C7 



Address. 



ST. PAUL, MINNESOTA. 

Miunesota Historical Society 

SALEM, MASSACHUSETTS. 

Essex Institute 

SAN FKANCISCO, CALIFORXLA. 

California Academy of Natural Sci- 
ence 



SAVANNAH, GEORGL\. 

Historical Society of Georgia 

SHELDYVILLE, KENTUCKY. 

Shelby College 

SOMERVILLE, MASSACHUSETTS. 

McLean Asylum 

STAUNTON, VIRGINIA. 
Western Lunatic Asylum 

STOCKTON, CALIFORNIA. 

Hospital for Insane 

TAUNTON, MASSACHUSETTS. 

State Lunatic Hospital 

TORONTO, CANADA. 



Magnetic Observatory. 

Canadian Institute 

University 



TRENTON, NEW JERSEY. 
State Lunatic Asylum 






37 



49 



Address. 



UTICA, NEW YORK. 

American Journal of Insanity 
State Lunatic Asylum 



WASHINGTON, D. C. 

American Nautical Almanac 

Bureau of Navigation 

Bureau of Statistics 

Department of Agriculture 

Department of Education 

Library ofCtmgress 

Ligbt-iiouse Board 

Medical Department United States 

army 

National Academy of Science 

National Deaf-Mute College 

Odd Fellows' Library 

Ordnance Bureau 

Secretary of the Interior 

Secretary of War 

State Department 

Treasury Department 

United States Coast Survey 

United States Government Hospital 

for Insane 

United States Land Office 

United States Naval Observatory. .. 

United States Patent Office 

Washington public schools 



WATERVILLE, MAINE. 

Waterville College 



WEST POINT, NEW YORK. 

United States Military Academy 

WILLIAMSBURG, VIRGINIA. 

Eastern State Lunatic Asylum... 



WORCESTER, MASSACHUSETTS. 

American Antiquarian Society 

State Lunatic Hospital 






7 

O 

17 
3 

46 
1 

59 
19 
1 
1 
2 
2 
4 
4 
2 
22 

1 

8 

93 

140 

2 



Total addresses of institutions 245 

Total addresses of individuals ]<J1 



Total number of parcels to institutions 2, 208 

Total number of parcels to individuals 6rtG 



436 



2,804 



LIST 



SMITHSONIAN METEOROLOGICAL STATIONS AND OBSERVERS IN NORTH 

AMERICA AND ADJACENT ISLAiNDS FROM 1^49 UP TO 

THE END OF THE YEAR 1868. 



Those marked with a * are deceased. 



Name of station. 


Name of observer. 


Years of 

observa. 

tions. 


Name of station. 


Name of observer. 


Years of 
observa- 
tions. 


ANTILLES. 

Sombrero Island . . . 
Sombrero Island... 

BAHAMAS. 


Alexis Julien 

Milton Bray ton 

J. B. Hayne 


1863-'64 

1865 

1859 
1860 

1861 
18G2-'65 
1868 
1861 

1858-'59 

1852 
1857 
1857 
1658 
1858-'68 

1859 

1867-'fi8 

]8.')7-'62 
1859-'60 

186C-'66 
18.55- C3 
1861 
1861-63 
1808 

1852-62 

1857-'65 

1868 

1861 -'62 

1856-68 

1849 

1851-'52 

1865-66 
1862-'66 
1866-' 67 
1667-'68 

I858-'62 

18fi2-'68 
1854 


HUDSON'S BAY 
TERRITORY. 

Abbitibbe post 

Port Anderson . . > 

Fort George > 

Fort Liard 

Fort Nascopec 

Fort Norman 


Jas. Lookhart 

R. Maefarlane < 

*R. Kennicott 

H. Connolly 

Andrevi' Flett 

Lawrence Clark, jr .. 
Mrs. Lawrence Clarke, 

jr. 
B. R. Ross 


1868 
1863 
1863 
'860 
1863-'65 


Turk's Island 


J. C. Crisson, Capt. 

W. Hamilton. 

*A. G. (^arothers 

United Statis consul 
J. C. Crisson, United 
Samuel G. Garland.. 

States vice consul. 
A M Smith 


1862-'63 

1859-60 


Turk's Island 

Turk's Island 


Fort Rae, Great 

Slave L. 
Fort Simpson, Grt. 

Slave L. 

Kenoqumissee 

Litile Whale River 

Moose Factory 

Moose Factory to 

Lake Superior. 
Red River settlem't. 
Rigolet, Labrador 

JAMAICA. 

Upper Park Camp . 
Upper Park Camp. 

MEXICO. 

Chinamaca 

Cordova 

Prontera, Tabasco 


l&61-'64 
1848-'61 


Turk'sIsl.SaltCay 


Thos. Richards 

Walter Dickson 

J. Mackenzie 

Colin Rankin 

Donal^ Gunn 


18f.l-'63 
1862 


BERMUDA. 


Capt. Alexander, R.E. 

Royal Gazette 

James B. Arnold 

James Crawlord 

Centre signal .station, 
Royal Engineers, 
in Royal Gazette. 

John G. Calder 

W. Martin Jones, U. 

States consul. 

Dr. W. Craigie 

J. Williamson, (dire'r 

Kingsti n Observ'y.) 

Colin Rankin 

Dr. A. Hall 


18.--7-'62 
1862 


Hamilton 


1 857-'6l 
1859-'60 


Shelby Bay 

St George's 

St. George's 

Ireland Island 

CANADA. 
Clifton 


James G. Sawkius. .. 
Col. VV. B. Murlow . . 

Charles Laszlo 


1855-'56 
1855 

18.59 




]8.=i8-'60 




Charles Laszlo 

Prof.L. C. Ervendberg 

Charles Laszlo 

Ilr. Chas. Sartorius.. 

Charles Laszlo 

Benjamin Crowther.. 
HermanBtreudt.M.D. 


1862 '64 




1865 




18.55-'56 


Mich i picoten — » . . 




1858 '60 




1858-'68 




Thos. Blackwell 

H. Phillips 

Observations publis'd 

in the Naturaliste 

Canadien. 
Dr. Chas. Smallwood. 

J C Baker 


San Juan Bautiste. 

Tuspan 

Vela. Cruz 

NEW BRUNSWICK. 


]8fil '64 




1867 




1859 


St. Martin's, near 


1859-'68 


Staubri'ige 


NEWFOUNDLAND. 


'^Jno. Delanj', jr., and 
*F.. M. J. D'lany. 

H. B. M. Milit'v Post. 

Rev. R. C. Ca=vvell, 
M. A. 

W. T. White, M. D.. 
*J. P. Kluge, M. D... 

*J. P. Khige, M. D., 
anil G. V. Rucker, 
M. I). 

J.Moses 




A. H. Gilmour 

0. J. Macgregor 

Magnetic Observatory 
Capt. J. H. Lelroy ... 

Felipe Valentin 

C N. Riotle 










1857-'64 




St Johns 






1849 






1868 


COSTA KICA. 


NEW GRANADA. 

Aspinwall 

Aspinwall 

Aspinwall 

NICARAGUA. 


S'lu Jos6 




San ,Jose 

Sau Jose 

GUATEMALA. 
Guatemala 

HONDURAS. 


Dr. A. Vfiu Frantziua 
Ofieina Central di 

Estadistica. 

Antonia Canudas... 

S. Cockburn 

E. i'urdot 


]8.57-'65 
186o-'66 
18(i8 
1867 


Truxillo 


1855 



METEOROLOGICAL STATIONS AND OBSERVERS. G9 

List of Smithsonian meteorological stations and observers — Continued, 



Name of station. 



Naiufc of observer. 



NOVA SCOTIA. 

Halifax 

Halifax 

Halifax 

Halif.x 

Hiirton 

Pictoii, f'.lbion 
Mines.) 

Windsor i 

Woifville 

Wolfvillc 

Wolfville 

"VVolfville 

PORTO RICO. 

Eft. .San Ysidro . . 

SAN SALVADOR. 

La Union 

ST. DO.MIKGO. 

VANCOUVER'S ISL- 
AND. 

Victoria 

ALABAM\. 

AshviUo 

Auburn 

Binton 

Boligce 

Bon Secours 

Cababa 

Carlovvville 

Erie 

Erie 

Eutaw 

Fisb Kiver 

Greeu.-boro' 

Greensboro' 

Green .springs 

Havana 



Havana, six miles 
east of. 

Livingston 

JUJlath'BP. O... 

Jlobile 

Mobile 

Mouroeville 

Montgomery 

Jlonti^omery 

Moultcn 

MnulToii 

Moultoii 

Monltou 

Opilika 

Orville 

Orvillo 

Prairie BInflF 

Prairie Blufif 

Selnia 

Spring Hill 

TiiBc;.looHa 

Tuscalo<iHa 

lluion iSpriDgH 

I'niontowM 

"VVetokaville 



Roviil Engineers 

Col". \V. J. Myers, P 
B. M. 

Board of Trade 

U. J. Nelson 

C. F. Hartt 

Heury Poole 

King's College 

Acadia College 

Prof. D. F. Higgins.. 

C.F. Hartt 

Prof. A. P. S. Stuart. 

George Latimer 



Charles Dorat,M.D. 
Jonathan Elliott 



David Walker. M. D 



Thomas M. Barker .. 
Prof. John Darbv. ... 

Dr. Clias. F. Pereival. 
Cel. Horace Harding 
W. J. Van Kirk ...... 

Matthew Troy, M. D 
H. L. Alison, M. D ... 

Dr. Sam'l K. Jennings 

Dr. T. C. O^bo^ne 

A. Winctiell 

W. J. Vao Kirk 

Robert B.Waller... 

N. T. Lupton 

H Tutwiler 

Prof. H. Tutwilcr 



S. K. Jennings, M. D 

liev. S. U. Smith . 
U. T. Meriwether.. 
Dr. S. B. North... 
Rev. J.J Nicholson 
S. J. Cumming 



Rev. J. A. Shepherd 

W. L. Fo>t(r 

Andrew .(. Harris.. 
Thomas J. I'eti rs. . 
Prof. J Shack, llord 
Ashley D. Hunt... 

J. H. Shi. Ids 

Dr. 8. K. Jennings.. 
T. A. Mu^t.ln and J 

A. Coleman. 
William Henderson 
R. M. R.yimlils... 
J>r. S. IC Jennings 
A Corni-tte, S. J . 
Pi 01 M. Tuomey. 

George B.imgli 

J. I-. Moullrii' ... 
Rev. U. A. Cobbs. 
Benj. F. ll->lly. 



Years of 

observa- 

•ions. 



1859-'61 
lt-63-'G5 

1854 

184.'i-'55 

18.'57-'62 

lf,->4 

18G0-'62 

18fi7-'C8 

I8."9 

I8.")5-'58 



1868 



1860 



18.57 

18j4-'58 

184<)-'ol 

186.) 

18(i6-'67 

165!) 

ie:rfi-'60 

1867-08 

184y 

1 85 1 -'52 

185 1 -'52 

1868 

ie^6-'62 

]i<m 

1 854-' 58 

1653 

1859-61 

l86£-'68 

1868 

185U-'60 

1854 

1849 

ia7J 

1849 

185 1 -'55 

18.")9-'6l 

18.51)-'60 

1866 

1866-'(;8 

1861 

11-59 

I M, 7-68 

ie5y-'60 

1960 

1867 • 

1807 

li-.58-'59 

18(i6 

l8.53-'54 

ie.-i4-'55 

I 68 

1859-60 

1849 

185i-'54 



Name of station. 



ALASKA. 



Fort Yonkon. 

Nulato 

Sitka 

St. Michaels. . 
St. Michapls.. 
Uualakleet ... 



ARIZONA. 

Fort Whipple . 

ARKANSAS. 



Arkadelphia 

Arkadelphia 

Uentonville 

Bnjwnsville 

Buckhorn 

Doaksville 

Fort Smith 

Gainesville 

Green Grove 

Helena 

Jacksonport 

Little Rock 

Micco 

Mountain Home. 

Perry ville 

Perry ville 

Spring Hill 

Spring Hill 

Spring Hill 



Waldron 

Washington . 
Washington . 
VellviUo .... 
Yellville . . . . 



CALIFORNIA. 



Auburn 

Coluuibia 

Crescent City. 
Downieville. . 

Folsom 

Fort Yuma... 

Ijoncut 

Honcut 



Honcut 

Mare Island 

Marsh's Uancbe 

Martini 7, 

Marysville 



Meadow Valley 

Meadow Valley 

Meadow Valley 

Mokelunine Hill. .. 
Monterey 



Murphy's 

PrisiUio of San 

Francisco. 
Presidio of Sau 

Francisco. 
Presidio of San 

Francisco. 

Siicraminto 

Sacramento 

Sacinmento 

Sacramento 

San Francisco 



San Francisco Dr. H. Gibbons 



Name of observer. 



* R. Kennicott 

W. H.Dull 

Dr. Ale.x. H. Uoff. 
H. M Bannister... 

J. M, Bean 

F. Westdahl 



Dr. E. Cones, U. S. A 



Dennis P^rlnw 

Female (!ollcge 

Paul Graham 

B. F. Coult.-r ... 

Armit-tead Younger.. 

Miss Sue MclVth 

Rev. Francis Springer 

Jamrs T. Uavi.'s 

Robert Bnrris, M. D.. 

O. P.Russell 

G. Al.'xandcr Martin, 

M.D 
Philip L. Anthony... 
R.v. H. F. Buckner .. 

J. S. Howard 

W. H.Blackwell 

H. P. Hariiy 

P. F.Finley 

J Reynolds 

P. F. Finley and J. 

Reynolds. 
Geo. W. Fcatheratone 
Alex. I'. Moor.', M. D 

Dr. N.D.Smith 

J. VV. Wiast 

W. B. Flippin 



Robert Gordon 

Silas Earl.', M.D... - 
Robert 15. Randall.. 
T. B. Kbbe, M. D... 
Rev. S. V. Blakeslee. 



James Slaven 

J. Slaven and Mrs. E. 

S. Dunknm. 
Mrs. E. S. Dni'knn:! . 
U.S. Naval Il.vpital 
Fi-ancis M. Rogers... 

Edwin H. w.! 

W.C. Belcher 



James H. Whltlock . 
Colbert A. Canfleld, 

M. D. 

M.D. Smith 

Wesley K. Boucher . 
Colbeit A. Cai.field, 

M. D. 
Epbraim Cutting. ... 
W. VV. Hays, M.D. . 

D. F. Parkinson 



Post surgeon 

Dr. F. W. Hatch ... 
Drs.F. \V. Haleliand 
T. M. I.og.iu. 

Dr. T. M. I., gan 

Cliarles Cralt 

W.C). Ay res, M.D... 



Years of 
observa- 
tions. 



1861 

186R-'67 

18fi7-'i;3 

18fi.5-'(i6 

1865-60 

1866-67 



1859 

1860 

18.59-'6l 

18.59--60 

18.59 

1860 

1866-'67 

1859 

I860 

186.5--63 

1859-'60 

1849 

I860 

1861 

1859-'61 

18.56 

1859 

18.i9-'60 

1860 

1859-60 

1861 

1849-01 

18.-i9-'60 

1859-60 



1859-'60 

1857-'60 

1859-'60 

18110 

1861 

1867 

1 859 

1861) 

lfOI-'63 

1,-68 

186~-'68 

IMiO 

l857-'.59 

186 1 -63 

186()-'62 

1864 

186;j-'68 
1859-6 1. 
185'.i-60 
1864-'68 

1862 

1863-'64 

185':!-'61 

1854 
1855 

1849-68 

I8n:t 

I f:„,-c,3 

1854-55 



70 METEOROLOGICAL STATIONS AND OBSERVERS. 

List of Smithsonian meteorological stations and observers. — Continued. 



Name of station. 


Name of observer. 


Years of 
observa- 
tions. 


Name of station. 


Name of observer. 


Years of 
observa- 
tions. 


California— Con. 

Santa Barbara 

Saut i Clara 

Santa Clara 

Spanish Hanehe . .. 
Spanish Kanche ... 


W. W. Hays, M. D . . . 
Prof. O. S. Frombes.. 

Lewis A. Gould 

M D Smith 


1864 

1S59-'61 

1859 

1862-'63 

1864-'66 

185.5-'56 

1867 

1858 

1860-'61 

1859 

1862 

1866-'67 

1867 

1863-'65 

186U-'62 

1868 

1861-'63 

18fi0-'68 

1856-'68 

1852 

1855-'57 

1866-'68 

1849-'5I 

1854, '58 

1859-'C8 

1849, '51 

1852 

1859 

1862-'64 

1849, '51 

1549, '51 

1852-'58 

1849, "51 

1855-'58 

1862-'C4 

1853-'68 

1849, '51 

1853-'54 

1853-'61 

1856-'62 

1867-'68 

1854 

1851 

1857-'58 
]859-'61 
1865 
1862 

1863 

1866-'67 

1854 

1859 

1849 

1857-'58 

1849 

1852 

1854 

1855 

1856 

1857 

1858 
1856 
18ti3-'65 


DIST. OF COLUMBIA. 

Georgetown 

Washington 

Washington 

FLORIDA. 


Rev. C. B. McKee . . . 

U.S.N. Observatory. 


1860-'63 
185-J-'60 
1864-67 
1857-58 


Mrs. M. D. Smith 

Dr. Robert K.Ried .. 

Walter M. Trivett 

W. L. Dunkum 

W. D. McLain 

D. C. Collier 

Fred. J. Stanton 

Arthur M. Merriam .. 

E. L. Berthond 

James Luttrell 

Dr. WUliam T.Ellis.. 

SanfordW. Roe 


Edward R. Ives 

Hon. Aug. Steele 

Benj. F. Whitney 

Judge Aug. Steele... 

W. C. .Andius 

John Newton 

*Henry M. Corey 

Janus B. Bailey 

P. C.Garvin, M D.... 
H.B.Scott 








Union Ranohe 

COLORADO. 

Central City 

Denver City 

Denver City 


18.57-58 


AtM na Otie 

Belair 


ie.5!l-'61 
1857 '58 


Cedar Keys 

Cedar Keys 

Chesnut Hill 

Fernandiua 

Gf<i'iesviile 

G <saon 


185! -'58 

1867 

1851 

1867 

1855-'6I 


Golden City 

Montgomery 

lloun tain City 


1866 


Goidon 


1866-68 


Green Cove Spring 


G. A. B ardnian 

F. L. Bachelder 

Dr. A. S. Baldwin 

W. C. Dennis 

George D. Allen 

G. F. Ferguson, and 
J. G. OUniaus. 

John Newton 

Edward R.Ives 

Galen M. Fisher 

Rev. W. W. Keep .... 
Dr. Jauies B. Bean . .. 

John Ni wton 

U. S. Navy Yatd 

J.Pearson, U.S.N... 
J. Pearson and Lieut. 

Joncj h Fry. 

Lieut. Joseph Fry 

Lieuis. Jiis. Fry and 

J. W. Hester. 
Lieut. J. W.Hester... 
J. M. Hawks, M,D... 

Dr. John E. Peek 

P. B. Mauraii.M. D.- 

Benj. F. \\ hituer 

W. S. Bogert 


1868 
1657-58 


CONNECTICUT. 


Jacksonville 

Key West (S.ilt 
Pond.) 

Key West (Mag- 
netic Observa'y.) 

Key West (Mag- 
netic Observa'y.) 

Knox Hill 


1863-60 
186(!-'68 
1854-'64 






Colebrook 


Miss C. Rockwell 

W. G. Yeomans 

P. A. Chadliourne 

Aaron B Hull 

Kev. E. Dewhurst 

Charles H. Hoadley.. 
Prof. J. Johnston 

*Prof. A.W. Smith.. 

H. G. DuBoiB.jr 

D. C. Leavenworth - . . 

Prof. E. Cutler 

Rev. Tryon Edwards, 

D. D. 
M. H. Cobb . ; 


1860-'61 


East Windsor Hill. 
Georgetown 


1861-'62 
1852-53 






1859-'60 


Middletown 




1866-'68 
1867 


Middletovvn 




ItCS 




)6,)8-'60 


New Haven 


Orange Hiils 


1854 
1849 


New Haven 

New London 




1857-'fi0 
1851-'54 


Pensacola 


1855 




N Scholfield 


18.56 




Dwight W. Learned . 

Rev. Daniel Hunt 

Dr. Ovid Plumb 

James Rankin 

Beiij. P. Harrison 

Rev. R. (i. WiUiams.. 
T. S. Gold 


Pensacola 


1857 








1858 




Port Orange 

St. Augustine 

St. Augustine 

Tallahiissee 

Tallahassee '. . 

Tallahassee 

Uchee Anna 

Warrington 

GEORGIA. 


1867-'68 

1849 


W'aiiingford 

Waterbnry 


1856-'60 
1859-'61 

1852 




R.H. Phelps 


Lai duer Cbbon 

John Newton 

Thayer Abert 

Prof. John D. Easter 
J. G. Westmoreland 
Fred. Dickner& Son. 

William Haims 

William Schley 

Wm.H.Doughty,M.D 

Rev. W. Blevvitt 

Jarvis Van Bunn 

Col. J. R.Stanford... 
Benjamin F. Camp .. 

John Darby -• 

Charles C. Seavey ... 

J. R. McAfee 

Cliarles Grant 

F. T. Simpson 

Eli S. Glover 

Mi>B L.J. Whitney .. 
John A Rockwell . .. 


1859-'60 


DAKOTA. 


F.G.Riter 


1849 
18jy- bO 


Greenwood 


Freeman Norvell 

M. K. Armi trong 

G.D. Hill, G.W. Law- 
son, H.G. Williams. 
H.G.Williams 


1857-'5a 


Yancton 


Atlanta 

Atlanta 


1859-60 
186">-'68 
1854-'57 




Augusta 


1854 
1 858-' 60 






1865-68 


Delaware City 

Dover. 

Ge rgetown 


Ciarksville 

Clurksville 


18,59-'61 


J. P. Walker 

Dr. D. W.Mauld 

John Burton 


1859 
18."i!l-'6l 




1852-'.53 


Miltord — . 


Cuthbert 


1860 




Prof. W.A.Norton... 

Prof. E. D. Ptirter 

Prof.VV. A. Crawford 
Prof.W. A. Crawford, 

R. A. Martin. 
Prof.W. A.Crawford, 

R. A. Martin, and T. 

J. Craven. 
Thos. J. Craven and 

Mrs. E D. Porter. 

Mr.-. E. D. foiter 

Robert Crawford 

'^' Urban D. Hedges . . . 


Daitou 


1861 




1H49 




Factory Mills 

HiUbboro' 

Macon 


1857 




18.57-'58 




]8(iS 
1868 




Maeon 

Madison 

Milledgeville 

MilUdgeville 

Peiilield 

Perry 

Philomath '. 


1868 




Prof.Wm. D.Williams 

J. M. Cottiiig 

Prof. C. W. Lane 

Prof. J. E. Willet.... 
Dr. Geo. F. Cooper.. 
James M. Reed 


1854 
1849 


Newaik 


1849 
1852 
l851-'52 


Wilmington 


1857 



METEOROLOGICAL STATION'S AND OBSERVERS. 



71 



List of , Smithsonian meteorological stations and obsircers. — Continued. 



Kaiiie of station. 



GEOUGIA— Cou'd. 



Pow llt'.n. .. 
■Si'Vii!iii:ili ... 
Sii\ai.i ah. .. 
.Sp.iiia 
SuiiiiiiCi ville 



Tlie Rock 

Tlioiiiu.-\il!e 

'1 boiuM>u 

■\Vliii<maish Island 
iiebuli.u 



IDAHO. 

Cantonment Jordan 

t oil Benton 

Fort UiiUfck 

FoitLariiniie 

Fort Lurumie 



ILLINOIS. 



Albany . . . 

Albiim 

Alton 

Alton 

Amlalusia. 

Athens 

Augusta .. 



Aurora 

Aurora 

P.atavia 

Bataviu 

Batavia 

Batavia 

Belk-ville. .. 
Belleville ... 
Bellevillu . . . 



Belvidere 

Blooniington 

Brighton 

Carbon Cliff. 

Carthage 

Carthage 

Ccntralia 

Chuniialian. - 
Clianiiahan. . 

Clviiago 

Chicago 

Chica^'O 

Chicago 



Chicago 

Chicago 



Chicago.. 
Chicago . 
Chi.'ugo.. 
Chicago. 
Cli..'on . 
i>.- Kalb 
Uixoji ... 



Doiigola 

lJtiboi.>4 

Un Quoin 

Eogar comity 
Eli;;illgton . . . 

Klgio 

tluiiiu 



Elmore 

Kvaiiston . . 
Evaubtou . . 
Kvauston .. 



Name of observer. 



P. C. Pendleton 

* Dr. John F. I*osey 

R. T. G.oson 

Dr Vj. .M. Pendleton 
Stephen Elliott Ha- 
bersham. 
Dr. Janus Anderson 

Rev. W. Bh Witt 

Dr. W. T. Giant... 

R. T. GibM.n 

Mrs. J. T. Arnold ... 



W. W. Johnson 

M. C Rosfiean 

J. H. KintVock 

Col. W O. C^'llins . 
A. F. Ziegler, M. D . 



Warren Olds 

Edgar P. I hompson 

S. Y. McMasters 

Norton Johnson 

E. H. Bowman, M. D 

Joel Hall 

Dr. S. B. Mead , 



* Andrew J. Babcock 
Abiram Spauliliug .. 
Prof. Wm. Coffin ... 

* Thomp'u Mcud, M. D 

E. Capeu 

Frank Craiidon 

N. T. Baker 

Dr. John J. Patrick.. 
Dr. J. J. Patrick and 

N. T. B.iker. 

G. B. Moss 

Jesse A Uisoii 

Wm. V. Eldrid?e 

Sirs. Wm. S. '1 homas. 
Samuel J. Wallace. .. 
Mrs. E. M. A. Bell. 

& Sani'l J Wallace. 

n. A. Schaubcr 

Rev. D. H. .Sherman. 

Dr. JoH. Fitcb 

Henry I alcott 

G. D. Hifcox 

Samuel Brookes 

M. C. Arni>trong and 

J. H. Roe. 
Gustavo A. Boettner. 

A. M. Byrne, J. H. 

Roe. niid others. 
John O'lionoghoe... 
Arttiiir M. Bvrne ... 

Isaac A. Poo'l 

JolinG. l.aiiggutb, jr 

C. H.Mooie 

John D. Parker 

J. Thos. Liitlo 

Ralph B. Meeker ... 

Wm. C Spencer 

C. Ziegler 

J. W. Brown 

Dr. E. n. Bowman. 
J no. li. Newcomb . . 
Orestes A. Blauchurd 



W. H. Adams 

* H. O. Meacham.. 

Chas. E. Smil.'i 

A. D. Langworthy 



Years <f 
observa- 
tions. 



1852 

18.V2-"59 

ie.'59-'(Jl 

18.V2--6I 

1868 

18.55-'60 

186ii 

1S58-'.j9 

18'Iii-'58 

1SJ7-59 



1859 

1863 

1864 

1803-'64 

leG5 



1861 -'62 

1857 

1849 

1849 

1866-'68 

185l-'r)8 

)849-T)0 

185 1 -68 

]857-'61 

1865-68 

185;}-'54 

1857-'61 

1858-59 

186 1 -62 

1860-'63 

1861 

1862 

1868 

1859-'61 

18."5-'58 

1859 

18.57 

1859 

1865 

1860 

1861 

1651 

1856-'57 

1859-'68 

186u-'6I 

186()-'61 

)86;3 

lt62 

1862 

186;i-'64 

18(i6 

1867-68 

1864-'66 

1866 

1859-63 

lp(i7 

1861 -'02 

1865-68 

1864 

18.58 

18.')7-'61 

1858-'6l 

1862-'63 

18G,i-'68 

1864-'68 

18.58 

185y-'CU 

1864 



Name of station. 



Illinois— Con'd. 

Evanston 

Evanston 

Kvaeston 

Evanston 

Evanston 

Farmbridge 

Fremont Centre. . 

Galena 

{lalesburg 

Golconda 

Granville 

Granville 

Hazel Dell 

Hennepiu 

Hiehland 

Hillsboro 

Hovltou 

Hoyltou 

Jacksonville 

Jacksonville 

Lacon 

Lebanon 

Loammi 

Magnolia 

Manchester 

Manchester 

Manchester 

Marengo 

Marengo 

Marengo 

Monroe 

Mount Sterling 

Napervllle 

Naperville 

Newton 

North Prairie 

Olney 

Osceola 

Ottawa 

(ittawa 

Ottawa 

Ottawa 

Paris 

Pekin 

Peoria 

Peoria 

Plymouth 

Qtii'ity -- 

Ridgi: Farm, Ver- 
milion County. 

Riley :... 

Robinson's Mills. . 
Rochelle, (Alta).. 

Rockford 

Sandwich 

South I'ass 

South Pass 

South Pass 

Springlield 

Tiskilwa 

Upper Alton 

Upper Alton 

Upper Alton 

Upper Alton 

Wapelhi 

Warsaw 

Waterloo 

Waukegan 

Waverley 

Waynesville 

West Salem 

West Uibana 

Whealon 



Name of observer. 



Yciirs of 

oliserva- 

tious. 



* W. H. Alonison. .. 

II. W. Scovill 

Jo>-. H. Gill and others 

Fred. J. Huse 

Prof. Oliver Marcy. . 

Elmer Baldwin 

Isaac H. Smith 

Emil Kauser 

Prof. Wm. Livingston 
Rev. Will. V. Eldndge 

L. G. Edgerly 

J. L. Jenkins 

Henry Giilling 

Smiley Slieppard 

A. F.'BaiKlelier.jr... 

John S. Titcomb 

J. Ellsworth... 

O. J. Marsh 

Prof. Wm. CoiBn... 
Timothy Dudley 

A. H. Thompson 

Prof. N. E. C'.bleigh. 
Timothy Dudley . . . 

Henry K. Smith 

John Grant 

John Gnint and Miss 

Ellen Grant. 
John & 0. W. Grant. 
O. P. Rogers 

O. P. &. J. S. Rogers 

F. Rogers 

Silas Meacham 

Rev. Alex. Duncan.. 

Lewis Ellsworth 

Milton S. Ellsworth.. 
Rev. Wm. V. Eldridge 

C. H. Bryant 

Rev. 11. H. Bricken- 

steiu. 
J. S. Pashley, M. D.. 

Dr. J. O. Harris 

Geo. O. Smith, M. D. 
Samuel L. Shotwell.. 
Mr.s. Emily H. Merwiu. 

C. Leving 

J. H. Kiblet 

Dr. Fred. Brendel ... 

JI. A. Breed 

Dr. J. B. N. Klinger. 
Rev. (!. B. Giddiugs 

B. C. Williams 

E. Babcock 

E. Breii.lel, M. D . . . . 

Daniel Carey 

Vi'iiliam Holt 

N E. Bullion, M. D .. 

Fi ank Baker 

S. C. Spuulding 

H. C. Freeman 

G.o. W. Briiikcrhoff 

Verry Aldrich 

Plot. P. P. Brown... 

* Dr. .lolin James 

Anna Janus 

Jlrs. Anna C. Trible . 

T. Louis Groff 

Beiij. Wliilaker 

II. Kunster 

Dr. \\'m. Joslyn 

Timothy Dudley 

Joshua E. Cantril 

Henry A. Titzo 

John Swain, M. D .. 
Prof. Geo. U. Collier. 



1864 

1864 

1865 

18t;()-'67 

18(16 

186.) 

18.57-S8 

18.5;)-"C0 

1 86 l-'»i8 

18ii(>-'68 

1851 

If. 57 

l8ii:3-'65 

lf68 

186(l-'64 

1858 

1864-'65 

1866 

1849 

1858 

1861-'64 

1867 

I859-'CI 

1867-68 

i8t;6-68 

1854-'61 

1862-'65 

1866-'68 

1856-'58 

1868 

18. 9-63 

18il5-'66 

1868 

1849 

1866-'68 

1859 

1859-'G0 

1859 

1862 

1860 

I860-'61 

18.')2-'6i 

1859-60 

1860 

1862-'68 

1868 

ie.57-'65 

185,5-'(>8 

186 1 -'62 

1K52 

1849 

1868 

1856-'67 

I860 

lti;6-'68 

IN;) 

It<.'i9-'C8 

1857-58 

l>--6u'-'6() 

I867-'(.8 

l865-'68 

18.59-68 

185 1 -'.52 

185;!-'a9 

18.57 

1861-64 

1868 

1855-'58 

1865 

186T-'«8 

1819 

ll~(1.5-'6fi 

18.58-'.59 

18.55.-"60 

l8.57-'59 

1858-01 



72 



METEOROLOGICAL STATIONS AND OBSERVERS. 



List of Smithsonian meteorological stations and observers — Continued. 



Name of etation. 


Name of observer. 


Years of 
observa- 
tions. 


Name of station. 


Name of observer. 


Years of 

observa- 
tions. 


Illinois— Con'd. 
Willow Creek. 


E. E Bacon 


1859-'63 

1862 

ie.i8-'C8 

]859-'61 

18fi4 

1865-'68 

1864-'65 

1859 

18G6-'68 

186.3-'66 

1864 

1865 

1868 

1854-'63 
1856-'61 
1868 
1865-'G8 

leST-'.-iS 

1849 

186a-'6l ■ 

1851-'54 

18.")9-'63 

1861-'65 

1864-'6.5 

1866-67 

1867-'68 

1868 

1854 

1854 

1868 

1854 

1854 

1865 

1849 

1861 

1857-'58 

18.59-'6l 

1863 

1854 

1864-'66 

1865 

1866-'68 

1857-'58 

1859-'60 

18o3-'55 

1859 

]86;i-'64 

1866-'ti8 

1855-'58 

1859 

1863-'65 

1819 

]863-'63 

1854 

1852-'68 

1849-'51 

1867 

1851 

1859 

1864 

1864-65 

1867-'68 

1849, '51 

1851 -'55 

]851l-'61 

1855-'.')9 

1859-'63 

ie63-'63 

1865-'68 


Indiana— Con'd. 

Rockville 

Rockville •. . . 

Shelby ville 

South Bend 

S .uth Bend, (Notre 
Dame Univer'y.) 

South Bend 

South Bend 

S.-uth Bend 

South Hanover 


H. H. Anderson 

J. W. Tenbrock 

J. T.Bullock 

Prof. Gardner Jones 
Prof. Thos. Vagnier.. 

Miss G. Webb 

James H. Dayton 

Reuben Burroughs. . . 
Prof. S. H. Thomson 

Wm. Dawson 

Charles G. Boerner .. 
W. W. Austin 

Prof. A. G. Moffatt .. 
P. P. Brown 


1 859-66 


Willow Hill 

Winnebago Depot 

AVoodstock 

Wyaiiet 


Henry flriffing 

J. W. ToUnan 

Geo. R. Ba.ssett 

E S Phelps . . .. 


1859 
18.")9-'62 
1851 
1858-59 


E. S. Phelps and Miss 

L. E. Phelps. 
V. P. Gay 




18.59 
ie6fl '63 


INDIANA. 


Geo. Sutton, M. D... 

Miriam Griest 

Wm. H. Hobbs 

Mis~M. A. Hol)bs.... 
Prof. C. M. Dodd, 

assisted Ijy T. H. 

Mallow and others. 

Wm. Dawson 

Hamilton Smith, jr. .. 

Charles M. Hobbs 

Dr. F. McCoy and 

Miss Lizzie McCoy. 

John F. Crisp 

Prof. A. C. Huestis .. 

Miss G. Webb 

Prof. Jos. Tiugley... 

Wm. H. Larrabee 

* Royal Mayhew 

W. W. Bntterfield... 
W. W. Buiterlield 

andMrs.Butterfield. 

W. J. Elstun 

Albert C. Irwin 

W. B. Coventry 


1863-'65 

1849 

l86.3-'68 






1864 '68 


Balbec 


Walnut Hills 

INDIAN TEKRI- 
TORY. 

Armstrong Acade'y 
Doaksville 


1849 


Bloomingdale 

Blioniingdale 

Blooiuiugton 


1849 
1849 




T. B. Van Home 

F. MeCoy, M. D 

F. MeCoy and Miss 
Elizabeth MeCoy. 

Philip Dorweiler 

James H. Warren ... 

B. Carpenter 

Isaac M. Gidley 

John C. Forey 


1849 




IOWA. 

Algona 




Carthage 

Columbia 

Evansville 


1860 

1861-65 


Fort Wayne 

Fort Wayne 




1866-'68 


Greencustle 

Grceucastle 


Algona 


1867-'68 
1867 


Indianapolis 

Indianapolis 




1861 '63 




1856 '60 


Boonsboro 

Border Plains 

Border Plains 

Bowen's Prairie ... 

Burlington 

Burlington 

Burlington 


1867-'68 


Indianapolis 


G. C. and VV. K. Goss 
Wm. K. Goss 


1856 
18.57 '59 


Samuel W^oodworth - 

John M. Corse 

Louisa P. Love 

Mrs. James Love 

John M. Hageusick.. 
S. H. Kridelbaugh, 

M. D. 
Nathan H. Parker... 

P. J. Farnsworth 

Wm. 0. Atkinson 

Nathan H. Parker 

A. J. Finlcy 


1868 


Kendallville 


18.'i9-'60 
18('6 '68 


Knightstown 

Lafity tts 




1868 


A. H. Bixby 


1865 '68 


Lafayette 

Lafayette 


H. Peters 




1665 '66 


Isaac E. Windle 

R. M. Newkirk 

W. W. Spratt, M. D. 
Charles B. Laselle . . . 

Isaac Bartlett... 

Tho . B. Helm 

C. Barnes 

Rev. Samuel Collins. 

Oliver Mulvey 

Thomas Holmes 

C. S. Woodard 

W. Woodbridge, B. 

D. Augell, and H. 

Blak... 

Dr. V. Kersev 

Geo. C. Muntield .... 
E. J. Rice . 




1 856-53 


Leo 


Clinton 


I86(i '68 


Logansport 

Logansport 

Logansport 


1867 '68 


Davenport 

Davenport 

Davenport 

Davenport 

Davenport 

Davenport 

Davenport 

Davenport 

Davenport 

Davenport 

Davenport 

Davenport 

Des Moines 


18.58 
18.19 


H. S. Finley.. 


1 8.")9 




H. S. Finley and W. 
P. Dnnwoody. 

J. Chamberlain. W. 
P. Dunwoody, H. 
H. Beltjeld. 

Dr. Ignatius Langer . 

H. H. Belfield andW. 
P. Duuwocidy. 

J. Chamberlain and 
W. P. Dunwoody. 

J. Chamberlain 

Geo. B. Pratt 

G. B. Pratt and Syd- 
ney Smith. 

D. S. Sheldon 

Rev. J. A. Nash 

Dr. Asa Horr 

Rev. Joshua Phelps.. 
Dr. W. W. Woolsey . 


1860 








1861 


Michigan City 

Michigan City 

Milton 


1861 
1862 


Mishawaka 


1863 




G. W. H. Kemper ... 


1864 


New Albany 

New Albany 

New Albany 

New Castle 

New Castle 


1865 


Dr. Alex. Martin .... 

Dr. E. S. Crozier 

Prof. Jos. Tingley ... 

Thos. B. Redding 

IJ. H. Roberts 

John Chappelsmith .. 
Dr. D. D. Owen 

Daniel H. Roberts . . . 
A. P. Turner 


1866 

]8n7-'68 
186.1-67 
1651 '55 


New Harmony 

New Harmony 


Dubuque, (Alex- 
ander College.) 


1857-'68 
1854 

18.56 


Patoka 




1 856 


Peniiville 


Fairfi-ld 

Fairfield 


J. M. Shaffer 

Miss Sue MeBeth 

John M. MiKenzie... 

A. F. Bryant 

Daniel Siield m 

Daniel McCready 

Dexter Beal and W. 

W. Beal. 
Dexter Beal 


1 8."i6-'60 




J. H. Loughridge,M.D 

Dr. Jno. T. Plummer 
W. W. Austin 

Joseph Moore 

John Haines 

Edward B. Rambo... 
John Valentine 


ie5:t 




Fayette 


ie."!)-'60 




Foutanelle 

Forrestville 

Fort Madison 


18fi6-'68 




]85H-'63 




18.5-2, -54 
185W68 




1857 




Franklin 




Richmond 


1858 



METEOROLOGICAL STATIONS AND OBSERVERS. 



73 



List of Smithsonian meteorological stations and obscrv rs — Continued. 



Name of Btation. 



Name of observer. 



Iowa— Continued. 

Fort Do'Iro 

fJrove Hill 

Grove Hill 

Grove Hill 

Gnttenbiirg 

GuttHnbiirg 

Harri:< Grove 

He sper 

luilepcndence . . . 

iDtiepemleiice 

Indepeiuience 

Independence 

Iowa City 

Iowa City 

Iowa City 

Iowa Falls 

Keokuk 

Keokuk 

Keokuk 

Kossuth 

Kofsuth 

Lyons 

Lyons 

Lyons 

Manchester 

Maquokcta 

Marbli' Rock 

Jtoutifello , 

Woiiticcllo 

Mount Pleasant 

Mount Vernon 

Mount Vernon 

Muscatine 



Muscatine 

Muscatine 

Muscatine 

Muscatine 

Muscatine 

Oiiowa 

O>ago 

Pella 

Pleasant Plain.. 
Pliasant Spring 
Plum .Spring ... 

Plum (Spring ... 

Ponltney 

Quasquetoa 

Kolfe . 

RosKville 

Sioux City 

Siou.x City 

St. Mary's 

Vi-rnon .Springs. 
Wa-hington ... 

Waterloo 

Waterliio 

Wliitesboro 

KANSAS. 

Atchison 

A von 

Ea.^ter Springs. 

Burlliigiime 

Cayuga 

CelcHlville 

Council City ... 
Council Grove . 

Emporia 

Fort Uilcy 

Fort Riley 

Fort Riley 



C. N. .Torgenson 

Dexter Bcal , 

Dexter Bcal and W 

W. Bcal. 

Mrs. Ci'lia Heal 

Philip Dorweiler 

JaniLS P. Dickinson 

Jacob F. Stiru 

H. B. Williams 

D. S. Deerinjr 

Alex. Camp Wbeaton 
Mrs. D. D. NVheaton 
Geo. Warnc, M. D... 
Hermann H. Fairall 

W. Rcvnolds 

Prof. Thfo. S. Parviu 
Nathan Townseud. .. 

Miss Ida E. Ball 

Dr. J. E. Ball 

Prof K. M. Taylor . . 

Wm. P. Ltonard 

Isaiah Rei d 

A. T. Hudson, M. D 

P. J. Farns worth 

Dr. .J. Messman 

* Allen Mead 

Edward F. Hobart... 

H. Wadey 

Chaunciy Mead . . 
M. M. Moulton 

E. L. Brigcs 

Prof. B. Wilson Smith 
Prof. Aloi.zo Collins 
T. S. Parvin 



P. G. Parvin 

Suel Fostir 

T. S. Parvin and Rev. 
John UfF.ird. 

Rev. John I'fford 

Josiah P. Walton 

Richard Stebbins 

R.v. Alva Bush 

E. H. A. .Scheeper. .. 
Townsend McConnell 
Rev. B. F. Odell ... 

B. F. Odell and Miss 
Mary G. Odell. 

Rev. B. F. Odell 

Dr. ». F. Odell 

Dr. E. C. Bidwell... 

Oscar I. Strong 

Carlisle D. Bcanian. 

Dr. J. J SaviUe 

A. J. Millard 

D. E. Read 

Gregory .Marshall 

C. R. Boyle 

L. H. Doyle 

T. Steed 

David K. Witter 



Dr. H. B. Horn and 
MissClotilili- Horn. 

Allen Croi'ker 

Ingraham &■ Hyland 

* Lncian Fish 

Wai. H. Gilman 

Rev. J. II. Drummond 
l-.dmund Fish . . . . 
A. Woorlwoith, M. D 

C. F. OaktMd 

Rev. David Clarkson. 
Dr. Fled. P. Drew, 

U. .S. A. 
Post Surgeon 



Vears of 

oberva- 

tions. 



I8fi7-'C8 
lf.J9-'60 
18G1 

18G2 

18S4-'fifi 

18«)-fi8 

18f.6-'68 

186ii-'()l 

186 1 -'(17 

ISG-'-'Clj 

1 86fi-'G8 

18fi7-'(i8 

18.)6 

le'u-TiS 

1861-'fi8 

1803-' 68 

]8.51-'54 

18")3 

1866 

1862 

18(!U-'61 

18.5!)-'(I7 

1862-' 65 

1866 

1865-'66 

18.J7 

l867-'68 

1864-66 

1866-'68 

186:?-'64 

18.j7 

1 860-68 

184i'-'5;) 

I8:>l-'.)2 

18.")-'59 

18.J3-'.i4 

186 )-'64 

1800 

1861-'62 

186:i-"68 

1864 

186i;-'67 

18.'54-'56 

18'>."3-'65 

18.58 

1855 

1859 

I8.53-'51 

1853-'56 

1868 

1857-'.i0 

18.")7-'.58 

186 1 -'63 

I8,i:! 

1861-63 

1861 

ie.')!»-'64 

18G4-'68 

1867-'68 



1865-'68 

1866 

l867-'68 

185!)-'61 

1858 

l8r.!t-'60 

ie.57-.58 

186.5-'C8 

1862 

18.")'.i-'60 

1862-'64 



1865 



Name of stati n. 



Kansas — Con'd, 

Fort Riley . . . 



Gardner 

Gardner 

Holton 

Junction City. 

Lawrence 

L;iwrr-nce 

Lawrence 

Ijuwrence. 

Lawrence 

Lawnuce 

Leavenworth 

Leavenworth . . 
Leavenworth., 
Leavenworth. 
Leavenworth 

Leconiptou 

Lecompton 

Lecompton. .. 

Leroy 

Manhattan 

Manhattan 

Manhattan 



Manhattan . 
Manhattan . 



Mapleton 

Moneka 



Neosho Falls. 
Neosho Falls. 

Olatha 

P.idg.way ... 

Topeka 

Wyandot 



KENTUCKY. 
BallardSville ... 



Bard St own . . 
Baidstowu . . 



Bard-town 

Beech Fork 

Bowling Green... 

Bowling Green. .. 

Chilesburg 

Cliiton 

Danviilo 

Danville 

Drennon .S^iriugs . 
Hurdinsburg 



Hardinsburg 
Lexington .. 
Lexington ... 



London 

Louisville 

Louisville 

MavHvillo 

Millersburg. . 
Millersburg . . 

Millersburg . . 

N'-wport 

Nieholasville . 



Nolin 

Paducah 

Paris 

Pleasant Valley 



Name of observer. 



Years of 

ob>erva. 

lions. 



J. M. Shaffer and E. 
P. Camp. 

G. F. Merriam 

Jaires .Sco<t 

Dr. J.iims Walters .. 
E.W. Seymour, M.D. 

G. W. Brown 

W. J. R. Biuckman.. 

A. N. Fuller 

W. L. G. Soule 

Geo. W. Hollingworth 
P of. F. H. Snow.. 
II. D. McCarty.... 



E. L. Berthoud , 

M. Shaw 

Dr. J. Stayman 

T. B. St..well 

Dr. Will. T. Ellis... 
Will. A. McCormick 

David G. Bacon 

J. G. Shoemaker 

Isaac 1 . Goodnow . 
Rev, N. O. Pre^t..n . 
I. T. Goodnow and 

H. L Deiiisou. 
Henry L. Denison . . 
Agricultural College. 

(B. F, Mudge, and 

and others,) 
S, O. Himoe, M. D . 
J. O. Wattles and 

Celestia Wattles. 

B. F. (4oss 

Mrs. E. VV. Groesbeck 

W. Beckwith 

O. H Br. wn 

F. W. Gil.'s 

John H. Millar ... 



Dr. John Swain. 



*John H. Lunemann 

J. II. Luneii'ann and 

Thos. II. Mdes. 

Thus. II. Miles , 

Dr. C. D. Case , 

J. E. Youiigiove 



F. C. Herrick 

Dr. Samuel D. Martin 
Rev. T. H. Cleland 
O. Bealty 



R. II. Caldwell 

Prot. S. V. McM ister 

Mrs. Mary A Walker 

and J, C. Barbage. 

Josliua C. Barbage . 

J. D, Shane 

Rev, S. R. Williams 



W. S. Doak 

Rev. S. R. Williams 
E, N. Woodruff ... 

E. L. Bi'iihond 

Rev, J. Miller 

Rev. J. Miller, Rev, 

(}. S. Savage. 
Dr. (i-<>. S. Savage . 
Prof. M. G. Wiliiams. 
Jos, McD. Matthews, 

D. D. 

J. Giiiinell 

Aiidri w Mattison 

L. G. Ray 

A. H. Bixby 



186C 

1860 

186 1 -'62 

18li7-'68 

1862 

I8.".7-'59 

186i'-'61 

1 862-'64 

18(i:!-'U4 

1867 

1868 

1857-'59 

181.8 

1 858- 60 

1861-62 

1866-68 

186.-! 

1859-'60 

18()0-'61 

1866 

1867 

ie57-'62 

18.5i)-"G0 

1863 

1864 
1865-'68 



i8.5T-'58 
1859 

I859-'61 

1868 

1861-68 

1863 

1858 

185y-'60 



18.-)3-'56 

I860-'62 

18.58 

1859 

1860--61 
1860 

1849-'50 
1851-52 
«52 

186.VC8 
lt-68 

185:J-'62 
18G.WG8 
1861 ■ 
1851 
1859 

1860-'61 

18.54 

18.)!l 

ie67-'68 

l^t).)-'66 

1 858-' .59 

186 -'63 

l852-'54 

I8.)3 

18.54 

l85,5-'62 
I86' 
186 1 -'63 

1858 

1959-'G2 

185l-'59 

1853 



74 



METEOROLOGICAL STATIONS AND OBSERVERS. 



List of Smithsonian meteorological stations and observers — Continued. 



Kame of station. 


Name of observer. 


Years of 
observa- 
tions. 


Name of station. 


Name of observer. 


Ye:irs of 

observa- 
tions. 


Kentucky— Con'd. 
Prospect Hill 


O. Beatty 


1849-'51 

1860 

1849-50 

]8.:i-'J5 

]8r)7-C8 

18G6 

1867-'68 

1859 

18G0 

18.39 

1860 

1854 

IrMO, '50 

1851-57 

ie5C-'57 

1859, -61 

1660 

1861 

ie(i7-'68 

18ti8 

185(5 

1856-59 

]856-'58 

18i;0 

18G7 

1849 

18,')9-'60 

lB59-'64 

1861-'62 

1849-'50 

1851-'53 

1854 

1854-55 

1864 

1849-'59 

1849-'50 

]851-'52 

18.53-57 

1851 

1855-'68 

1857-68 

18fi0-'63 

1858 

1861-'63 

1860-'61 

1863-64 

1859 

1849-'56 

]855-'fi4 

1864 

1865 

1866-'68 
1859 

1849-'64 

1849 

1866-'67 

1864-66 

18.59-'61 

1859--63 

1836-'59 

1859 

I860-'62 

1 859-'C0 

186:)-'6l 

1867 

1859-'61 


Maine— Con'd. 


Rev. S. H. Merrill .... 

Howard D. Smith 

S. Eveleth 


1849 '50 


E. M. Miircli 


Oxford 




Springdale, (near 
Louisville.) 

Taylorsville 


Mrs. L. Young 

H. C. Mathis 

J. H. Carter 


if'GS 


Patten 

Pembroke 


1849 


Ri V. E. Dewhurst 

William D. Dana 


1862 
18.'i3-'6.5 




1855 '60 




Portland 


J 3hii W. Adams 

Waldo Pettingill 

Edwin Pitman 

Joshua Bartlett 

John P. Moulton 

J. D. Parker 


1859 'Gl 




Kumford Point 


18i;6-'68 
1864 


Fulls River 


A. W. Jaekson,M. D. 

B. F. Anthonios 

Col. C. B. Svvasey . .. 
Mrs. M. J. Mankard.. 
Prof. W. P. Riddell.. 
* Dr. E. H. Barton . . 

Lewis B. Taylor 

Dr. S. P. Moore, U. 

S A. 
Harrison Thompson . . 

Robert W. Foster 

E. L. Raiilett 

B. R. Giffnrd 

A. R Kilpatrick, M. D 
Edward Merrill, M. D. 

Kev. A. K. Teele 

Stephen Gilman 


South Thomastou . 


1 8.13-' 54 
186") '68 


Independence 

Independence 


Steuben 

Thomaston.. 


1 849-'50 


Geo'ge Prince and 
Chr. Piince. 

Warren Johnson 

James Van Blarcom . . 

Calvia Biekford 

Alnion Robinson 

B. F. Wilbur 

Joshua Bartlett 

Edwin Pitman 

E. Pitman ■. 


1851 -'68 
1849-50 


New Orleans 


1851 -'53 
18."i9-'6l 


New Orleans 


Vassalboro 


185; (-63 
1859-'G0 




Webster 


ieG5-'67 


New Orleans 

New Orleans 

New Orleans 


West Watervillo . . . 
Whitehead 

Williamsburg 

Williamsburg 

Wyndham 

MARYLAND. 

Agricult'l College, 
Pri ce George Co. 


18ti3-'68 
1849-'50 
1851-'52 
1863, '66 
1867-68 


Tri ily 

Trinity 


Samuel A. Eveleth .. 

Montg. Johns, M. D . . 

Prof. W.F.Hopkins.. 
A. Zumbrock, M. D.. 

W. K. Goodman 

Dr. Lewij F. Sti iner . 
Prof.Alfied M.Mayer 
Benj. 0. Lowndes. . .. 

George S. Grape 

James A. Pearce, jr. .. 
Prof. A. W. Clark.... 

Rev. A. Sutton 

Prof. J. Russell Dut- 
tou. 

T. C. Atkinson 

Philip Tabb 


1849-'50 
1851-56 


Vidalia plantation . 

MAINE. 


1 80 1-62 
1851 


Bangor 

Bangor 

Belfast 




18."i5-'56 


Annapolis 


1856 '68 


G. Euiersou Brackett. 

Rev. A. G. Gaines 

J.G.Garland 

F. A. Small 

Kev. S.H.Merrill.... 

H.H.Osgood 

*Prof. Parker Cleave- 
land. 


]852-'.53 


Bethel 




1857-'59 


Biddeford 

Biddeford 

Blue Hill 

Blue Hill 


Bladeusbnrg 

Catoiisville 

Chestertown 

Chestertown 

Chestertown 

ChestertoVn 

Cumberland 

Ellicott's Mills 

Emraittsburg 

Emniittsburg 


1854-64 
18;i5-'ri7 
i855-'57 

]859-'60 


Brunswick 

Bucksport 


1861-'64 
1849 


J. J. Bell 


1864 




Eli Smith 


]8'i6-'68 




Dr. J. L. Stivens 

G. \V. (iuptill 

Silas West 


Prof. C. H. Jourdan . . 
Dr. Lewis F. Steiner. 
Henry E. Hanshew . . 

MissH. M. Baer 

Rev. J. P. Carter 

Lewis J. Bell 

Jacob E. Bell 

Dr. Alex. McWilliams. 

Prof J. P. Nelson 

Prof. J. F. Maguire. . . 

A. P. Dalryraple 

L. R. Cofran 

Henry W. Thorp 

T.G.Stagg 


]8(17-'68 




1851 






1852-54 


Dexter 


B. F.Wilbur 

Stephen Gilman 

Henry Reynolds, and 

Lauristnn Reynolds. 

Dr. J. B. Wilson 




1856-'63 


East Exeter 


]8o.5-'66 


East Wilton 


llagerstowu 

Leitersburg 

Leitersburg 

Leonardtown 

New Windsor 

New Windsor 

Nottingham 

Oakland 

Port Deposit 


18.32, '54 

1852 

1858-62 


Foxcroft 


1858-59 




E. A. Buller 


1852 


Fryeburg 


G. B. Barrows , 

* Hon. R. H. Gardiner. 

Rev. P.Gardiner 

Rev. F. and K.H.Gar- 
diner. 

R. H. Gardiner 

E. E. Brown, S. W. 
Hall, L. S. Strick- 
land, and otliers. 

Peleg Wadsworth 

M'lton Welch 

Beuj. II. Towle 


1854 
1849 




1857-'5S 




1849 




]856-'57 




Randy Hill 

Sykesville 


1849 


Hartland 


Prof. Williara Baer. . . 

Prof. Wm. Baer and 
Miss H. M. Baer. 

Miss H. M. Baer 

Riv. Jas. Stephenson 

Warrington GiUing- 
ham. 


1849-'50 






1851-5a 
1853-'54 










1855-65 




St. Inigoes 

Union Bridge 

WalkersviUe 

Woodlawn 

MASSACHUSETTS. 


1 8.39-68 


Lee 


1864 




W. G. Lord 






Asa P. Moore 

B. F. Wilbur 


1849-51 




JameS 0. McCormick. 

Prof. E. S. Sncll 

Rev. E. Dewhurst 

B.R.Gifford 


1865-68 


Newcastle 

New Sharon 

North Belgrade.... 
North Bridgeton. .. 


C.L. Niehols 

J. F. Pratt, M. D 

A. H. Wyman 

M. Gould 

Virgil G.Eaton 

G. W.Verrill,jr 


1849-'68 


North Prospect 

Norway 


Baldwinsville 

Barnstable 


18u3-'6i 
18o2-'5a 



METEOROLOGICAL STATIONS AND OBSERVERS. 



lo 



List of Smithso7iian nieleorvlogical stations and observers — Continued. 



Name of station. 


Name of observer. 


Years of 
observa- 
tions. 


Name of station. 


Name of observer. 


Years ol 

olese^rva- 

tions. 


Mass.— Continued. 


E.L. Smith 


1857 

1859 

18.'54 

185(i-'57 

1858-'59 

18ti0-'61 

1F68 

1851 

18o5-'58 

185y-'60 

1865-'66 

1 857-. 58 

1861-'G4 

18r)0-'()l 

1858-'59 

18.49 

letil 

18(iO-'fil 

18.")7-'61 

1849 

18H5-'67 

18h-7-'fi« 

18fili-'61 

18G8 

18fi(!-'(;8 

18.57-' 68 

1849-'5l 

18 :(-'(;8 

1849-50 

1851 -'52 

1849 

1849-'G8 

18tJ7-'f;8 

]8.53-'(;i 

1819, '51 

18.53-'ti8 

18G0-T,7 

18G5-'68 

]65:S-"58 

1851 -'.58 

186G-'68 

18.57 

18.5:i-'57 

]8(;i-'G2 

1 849-' .50 

1851- (i3 

1865-08 

1854 

1849 

]PG3-'65 

18.59 

1849-'57 

18.5:5-'56 

16.59 

1849 

18.54-',57 

18G(l-G-3 

18G3-'G4 

186I-'GG 

]8GG-'G8 

18.54 

18(14 

1854-'66 

18t;7-'G8 

18.5G-'57 

1859 

1851 -'52 

1854 

ie54-'57 

1857-'59 

18G0-'68 
I8G8 

1 854-55 
lti49-'52 


Mass.— Continued. 


Drs. Ed. A. Smith, F. 

H. Rice, and others. 
Dr. Geo. Chandler. . . . 
John S. Sargent and 

others. 

Dr. H. C. Prentiss 

Joseph Draper, M. D. 

J. W. Paxton 

Dr. H. R. Schetterly.. 
L. Woodruff 

Prof. A. Wincbell.... 

L. Woodruff and A. 
Wincbell. 

Dr. W. M. Campbell. 

Dr. Thos. Whelpley . 

Dr. M. K. Taylor 

Charles Uetts 

S. H. Whitile.sey 

Wm. Van Orclen, jr.. 

Elmore Wninwright.. 

N. C. Southworth 

Mrs. Octavia C. Walk- 
er. 

Chas. S. Whittlesey.. 

Heber Crane 

Wm. A. Raymond... 

*Rev. Geo. bufltield.. 

Dr. Zena Pitcher and 
L. S. Horton. 

U. S. Engineers 

Dr. Zc na Pitcher 

Mrs. M. A. Goff 

Dr. S. F. Alitchell.... 

Dr. D. Clark 

Lieut. C. N. TurnbuU. 

Lieut, (j. N. TurnbuU, 
U. S. A. 

Edwin Ellis, M.D 

Heber Squier 

Franklin Everett 

Dr. J. Holli:,ter 

AllVed O. Currier 

L. H. Strong 

Edwin A. Strong 

J B Parker 


1 8.53-'56 


Boston 


E. L. Adams 

Marshal Conant 

L. A. Darling 

C. W. Felt and others. 

Normal School 

Rev. John H. I'erry.. 

Martin N. Root 

* W.C.Bond 




18(!5 
1854 


Br^dgi water 

Biicigewater 

Bridpewater 

Bro'.Uline 


Worcester 


1857--58 
185f)-'G4 




18G6-'68 


Bytiild 


MICHIGAN. 

Alpena 

Ann Arbor 

Ann Arbor 

Ann Arbor 

Ann Arbor 

Battle Creek 

Brest . ... 




Caiubri'lge 

Cambridgo 

Cambridge 




Harvard College Ob- 
servatory. 

Augustus Eeudler 

D. H. Ellis... 

Naval Hospital 

Geo. iM. Morse, M.D. 

A. W. Mack 

James Ritchie 

Charles C. Terry 

George Raymond 

L.F. Whitcomb 

(5u>tavus A. Hyde... 

Henry M. Nelson 

S. Augustus Nelson.. 
Rcv.Wm.G. Scandlin. 

Rev. E. D. whurst 

Guilford S. Newcomb. 


18R.5-'G8 
1852 
18.52-' .54 


Chilsea 


]85G-'57 
18.'j4 


Dan vers 


185C-'57 
1855 


Fall River 

Fitchimrg 


184n-'G0 


Florida 


;848-'54 


Framingham 

Georgetown 

Geoifietown 

Gratton 


Brooklyn 

Burr Oak 

Central Mine 

Clifton 


18.52-'54 
]r:49-'52 
18G7-'G8 
]8G2-'fi3 
1851 -'53 




Coldwater 

Cooper 

Copper Falls 


18G8 




18-54-'58 


Lowell 

Lunenburg 


Charles J. Gilliss.... 
G' o. A. Cunningham. 
Jacob Bachelder 


18G0-'G2 
1856-'57 
18.55 




Detroit 


1S49 






1849-56 




Dr. John G. Mctcalf.. 

Rev. A. K. Teele 

Hon. Wm. Mitchell... 

Thomas Bailey 

Samuel Rodaian 

Edward T. Tncker. . . 
John H. Caldwell.... 
Dr. H.C Perkins 


Detroit 


1858-60 


Jliltou 


Detroit 

Detroit 




Ka.itiickot 


18G')-'G3 
lH61-'62 


N- w HciHord 

Nevy Bedford 


Eagle River 

East Saginaw 

Flint 


18.'.6 
18.54 
18.14-55 


Newburyport 

Nort'i Aitli-boro' .. 


Forestville 

Foit Gratiot 

Garlick 


18.58 
1858-59 


North Bilierica 

Plainfield 


Rev. Elias Nasou 

Francis Shaw 

Hon. John Brooks 

Orrin A. Reynolds 

William Bacon 

R. D. Slussey 

Benjamin Kent 

N. Ban ow.s. M.D 

Alfred Collin 

Amasa Ilolcomb 

Lucius C. Aliiii 

Francis A Brewer. . . 

Abraham .S. Peet 

Albert Schlegel 

Natliaii W. I'rown . .. 
John H.Caldwell.... 
Arthur M. Jlerriam .. 
Sidney A. Merriam . . 
Dr. James llobbins. .. 

Eugene Ta ppau 

*Rev. Dr. E. Davis... 

John H. Bixby 

Dr. N. y. Tirrell 

C. M. Freeman 

Pro f. P. A . C h iid bou rne 

D. J. Holmes, Jas. Or- 
tou, Laval lette Wil- 
son, andothirs. 

I. McGee, C. J. Lyons, 
M.L.Berger&others. 
As rononiical Obsev'y. 
Prof. Albert Hopkins. 
B. R. GifTord 


1864 


Priucetou 

Randolph 


Grand Haven 

Oraiici Rapids 

Grand Rapids 

draiicl Kapids 

Grand IJapids 

(Iraiicl ir.picis 

Grand Kapids 

Grand Rajeids 

Grand Traverse. .. 
Holland 


18.-9-'G3 

1849 

]819-'51 


Rockport 

Roxbury 


185J-'.58 
1857-'il0 
18G()-'G1 
1864 


Sau'lwieh 

South Gioton 

Souihwi k 


E.S.Holmes 

H. R. Schetterly 

L. H. Strong 


186.5-'68 
18.54 
1 86()-'63 


Spri Mgtield 

Spri utield 

Stockbridgo 


Homestead 

Houghton 

Howell 

Kalamazoo 

Kalamazoo 

Kalaioazoo 

LakeGeorgo 

Lansing 

Lansing 

Lansing 

Litchlic Id 


George E. Steele 

J. B. Minick 

Dr. II. R. Schetterly.. 

Harmon M. Smith 

MiltO)c Chase 

I'raiik Little 


1 8(;5-'68 
1861-67 
186.5-'6G 
lf^l9-'50 


Top^lield 

Topslield 


l»-."il--.V2 
]Hi;4-'G7 


TopsUeld 

Topslield 


186.V67 
1868 


Uxbiidge 

West Dennis 

\Ve^tfleld 

West Nevrton 

Weymouth 


J. H. Foster and Ed- 
ward Perrault 

Cleveland Abbe 

J. C. Holmes 

J'rof. R. t:. Kedzie 

R Hullaid 


18.59 

18.59 

18.59 

18.59 

18i>:Vfi8 

186.VC8 


Williamstown 

Williams own 

Wiiliaiutttown 

Williamstown 


Lower Saginaw . .. 

Manchester 

Marfpiette 

Marquette 

Marquette 

Mill Point 


James G. Birney 

F JI. Reasner, M. D. 

Peter White 

Dr. <1. H. Blaker.jr.. 
Dr. G. H. Hlaker, jr., 

and F. M. Hacon. 
R.'V. !j. M. S.Smith .. 
Thomas Whelpley. .. 
Capt. A. D. PcM-kins .. 
Mi.-.s 11. I. Whelpley.. 
G. W. Bowlsby 


1849 
1864 

18.57 

1858-'fil 

]862-'63 

186l)-'Ca 






18.52 






1854 


Wood's Hole 




1 e5.5-'60 


Worcester 


S. F. Haven 


Monroo 


18.59-'G1 



76 



METEOROLOGICAL STATIONS AND OBSERVERS. 



List of Smithsonian meteorological stations and observers — Continued. 



Kame of station. 



Michigan— Con'd. 



Monroe . 



Slonroe 

Moil rot' Piers 

Slui-kegon 

NfW lIufFalo 

■Northpoi-t , 

KortL|:ort 

OntoDiignn 

Ontonagon 

Ottawa Point 

Ottiigo 

Ot^t'go 

Osbtemo & elsew'e 
Pennsylvania Mine, 

Pleasanton 

Pontiac 

Port Huron 

Port Huron 

Etdt'orci Centre 

Romeo 

Romeo 



Name of observer. 



Romeo 

Saugatuck 

St. James 

Sugar Island 

Tawas City 

Tbunder Bay 

Yiisiiauti 

ypsilanti 



Minnesota. 



Afton 

Beaver Bay. 
Beaver Bay. 
Beaver Bay. 



Benver Bay 

Biiwles Creek 

Buchauun 

Burlington 

Cass Lake 

Cass Lake Mission. 

Chattield 

Danville 

Fond du Lac 

Forest City 

Forest City 

Fort Ripley 

Grand Portage 

HasiiLgs 

Hazelwood 

Hennepin county.. 
Itasca 



Lac qui Parle 

Lac qui Parle 

Lake VVinnibigosh- 
ish. 

Liipliam 

LapLam 



Lapham 

Maukiilo 

Minneapolis 

New Ulm 

Pajuiazee 

Pembina 

Prince on 

Prinieon 

Red Lake 

Red Wing 

Red Wing 

Sandy Lake 

Sauk Centre 

8ibUy 

SiWey 



Miss Helen I. and 
Floreiici- Wbelpley, 

Miss F. E. Wbelpley. 

John I>ane 

H. A. Pattison 

J. B.Crotby 

H. R. Scbetterley 

Rev. Geo. N.Smith... 

H. Selhy 

Edwin KUis, M. D... 

John Oliver 

Matthew Coffin 

Milton Chase 

Henrv H. Mapes 

Richard H.GrilHth-. 

Joseph D. Millard. . . 

James A. Weeks 

James Allen, jr 

Geo. A. Stockwell . . 

Chas. C. Smith, M. D 

Isaac Stone 

SetbL. and G. P. An- 
drews. 

S. L. Andrews, M. D 

L. H. Strung 

James J. Strong 

U. S. Engineers 

U. S. Engineers 

S. L Maiden 

MissG. Weblj 

C. S. Woodward ... 



Dr.B. F. Babcock... 

Thomas Clark 

Henry Wieland 

Thus. Clark and C. 
Wieland. 

C. Wieland 

Andrew t^tonflfer 

St, pben Walsh 

A. A. Kibbard 

Alonzo Barnard 

Rev. B. F. Odell .... 

T. F. Thick^tun 

Thomas A. Kellett. . 
Rev. Joseph VV. Holt 

A. C. Smith , 

Henry L. Smith 

Rev. S. W. Mauncey 

Richard B;irdon 

T. F. Tbickstun 

S. R. Riggs 

J. B. Clough 

O. H. Ktlley 

Rev. S. L. Riggs 

S. R. and A. L. Kiggs 
Rev. Benj. F. OdeU.. 

E. M. W^right , 

J. F. Mc Mullen and 
D. F. Sboriwell. 

Samuel Locke 

Wm. Kilgore 

Wm. Cbeuey 

Charles Rons 

Rev. S. K. Riggs 

Charles CavUter 

O. E. Garrison 

S. M. Byers 

Rev. E. W. Carver., 
Rev. Jabez Brooks .. 
Prof. A. M. Stephens 

Samuel Spates 

Smith Bloouitield 

C. W. Woi.dbury... 
C.W. and C.E. Wood- 



Years of 
observa- 
tions. 



1861 

Ig62-'fi8 

]e.59-"C3 

]g68 

1857-62 

1862-'63 

1S65-C8 

1859-63 

1865-'68 

18.59-61 

1859-'62 

1861 

1864-68 

1868 

1868 

1864 

lg57-'59 

1860 

1861 

1855 

1856 

1855, "57 

18.54-56 

1853-'56 

1863 

1861-'6J 

1859-'63 

1859 

1859-'63 



ie65-'67 
1858-59 
1859-'60 
1860 

1861-'68 
]g65-'66 
1857-'58 
1858-'60 
1852 

1856 ■ 
185y-'61 
1868 
1849-51 
1859-'61 
1862-'66 
1854 
1867 
186l-'62 
1855-'58 
1864-'65 
1860-61 
1863 
l852-'53 
1854 
1859 

1857 ' 
1858 

1858 

1864 

1864-'68 

1864- 68 

185H-'62 

1852 

1856-'60 

1860 

1853-'54 

1856 

1867 

1852 

1868 

ie65-'67 

1868 



Name of station. 



Minnesota— Uo'd. 



Smithfield 

Stillwater 

St. Anthony's Falls, 

St. Cloud 

St. Joseph's 

St. Joseph's.... 
St. Paul 



St. Paul 



Tamarack 

Travers des Sioux . 
Wabashaw 



MISSISSIPPI. 



Brook Haven. 

Columbus 

Como 

Fayette 

Gainesville 

Garlandsville. 

Granville 

Grenada 

Grenada 



Hernando... 

Jackson 

J. cksou 

Kingston 

Marion 

McLeod's ... 
Monticello .. 

Natchez 

Natchez 

Natchez 



Natchez 

Oxford 

Pass Christian - 

Paulding 

Poit Gibf^on... 
Prairie Lino... 

Vicksburg 

Westville 

Yazoo City 



MISSOURI. 



Allenton 

Athens 

Augustus 

Bethany 

Bolivar 

Bolivar 

Booneville 

Canton 

Canton 

Cape Girardeau . 

Carroll ton 

Carrollton 

CarroUton 

Cassville 

Charle.^ton 

Dry Ridge 

Dundee 

Easton 

Edinburg 

E'iina 

Emerson 

Farmington 

Fort Pierre 

Greentield 

Greenville 

Hannibal 

Hannibal 

Harrison ville 

Hematite 

Hermann 



Name of observer. 



B. C. Livings 

A. Van Vciorhies 

C. F. Anderson 

O. E. Garrison 

Rev. D. B. Spencer. 

A. O. Kelluiu 

Rev. A. B. Paterson, 

D. D. 
John W. Heimstreet 

bury. 

Mary A. Grave 

Rev. R. Hopkins 

Spencer L. Hillier . . 



T. J. R. Keenan 

James S. Lull 

E. W. Beckwith 

Rev. T. H. Cleland. 
Charles A. Folsom. ., 
Rev. E. S. Robinson 
Jiimes H. Vincent. . . 
Wm. Henry Wadd^l 
Prof. Albert Moore . 



Years of 
observa- 
tions. 



Wm. M. Johnston . . 

Thomas Oakley 

A. R. Green 

J. Edward Smith... 
T. W. Florer, M. D. 

David Moore 

J. R. Ciibbs 

Geo. L. C. Davis 

J. Edward Smith... 
*R. McCary 



W. McCary 

Prof. L. Harper 

Rev. J. A. Sheppard 
Rev. E. S. Robinson., 
Prof. J. Bi.yd Elliott 
Rev. E. S. Robinson. 

A. L. Hatch 

J.R.Ciibb3 

Col. C. B. Swasey 



Aug. Fendler 

John T. Caldwell... 
Conrad Mallinckrodt 

D. J. Heast.n 

W^ J. VanUirk 

James A. Race , 

Norris Sutherland 

George P. Ray 

Dr. J. M. Parker ... 
Rev. James Knoud .. 

John Campbell 

S. J Huffaker 

D. J. Kirby , 

M. L. VVyrick 

George Whitcomb - . . 

O. H. P. Lear 

S. S. Bailey- 

P. B. Sibley 

John E. Vertrees 

J. C. Aguew 

W B. Kizer 

Nathan P. Force 

Fivd. Behmer 

S. B. B .wles, M. D.. 

O. D. Daltou 

O. H.P. Lear 

Ldw (1 Duffield, M. D 

John Cliristian 

John M. Smith 

Philip Weber 



1868 

1S58 

1854 

l?61-'62 

1853-'55 

1854 

186-'-'68 

1866-'67 

1863-64 
1849-'51 
1857-'58 



1867-'68 

1855-'59 

1849 

1866-'67 

1849 

1853-55 

1849 

1854 

1859-'60 

ie66-'68 

18.59-60 

184y-'52 

1854 

1866-'67 

1868 

1849 

1860-61 

1&49-'51 

1856 

1858-'61 

1864-'66 

1866-68 

1854-56 

1860 

1858-'59 

1855-'57 

185'J-'61 

1849-'53 

1859-'60 

1860-'61 



]865-'68 

18G4- 66 

1859 

1859-60 

1859-61 

18f,8 

1859-'6l 

1861-'68 

18(;8 

1856-'58 

1859 

1859 

I860 

1859-'61 

1868 

1854-'55 

]859-'61 

1864-66 

1866-T)7 

1859-66 

1859 

18.59 

1854 

1859-'62 

185:i-'60 

1853 

1855-56 

18.59-'68 

1868 

1859-'60 



METEOROLOGICAL STATIONS AND OBSERVERS. 



77 



List vf Smithsonian mtteorological stations and observers — Coutiuucd. 



Name of station. 


Name of observer. 


Years of 
observa- 
tions. 


Name of station. 


Name of observer. 


Years of 

oli^eiva- 
tions. 


Missouri— Cont'd. 
Hermitage 


IMiss Belle Moore 

W. II. Horn.r 

Nicolas Ue Wvl...- 
Robert Byers.M. D.. 

J. U. Myers 

William Muir 

JohuM.Weatherford. 

Jo.seph A. Wilson 

Ceo. W. Wilson, jr .. 
P. S Wilson 

B. P. llanan 

William Kaucher 

W. F. Maxey 

Charles Vi>Kel 

R. W. Fiiiley 

C. Q. Chandler, M.D. 

Homer lluggles 

J. A. Stephens 

Edward B. Neely 

Dr. Geo. Engelmann. 

A. Wislizenus. M. D . 
G. Engehnan, M. D., 

and A. Wislizenus, 

M.D. 
Augustus Fendler ... 
*J. H. Luuemiiun 

Rev. P. W. Koning.. 
Rev. F. H. Stunfebeck 
Re\'. I. Straetmans . . 
Wm. Wells 

B. D. Dodson 

Thomas J. C'inkling . 
Wni. M. Lumpkin . .. 

Dr. W. Moore 

Miss Belle Moore 

Rev. J. E. Pollock... 
JIarion F. Hamaker. . 
Mary A. Tidswell ... 

B. G. liingow 

Rev. N. Scarritt 

■* Dr. H. M. Lehman . 
* Dr. II. M. Lehman . 
T. Koleski 


1 867-' 68 

18.".9-61 

1868 

1859 

1859-'63 

186:i-'64 

18.59 

1859 

1860 

1861 

1859-'61 

1867-'68 

1859-'62 

1859-'60 

1859-'60 

185.5-'56 

1867-'i;8 

1 857-' 58 

1857-58 

18.53-'57 

1859-67 

1856-'57 

1858 

ie59-'64 

1860-'62 

1861 

1861 

1865-'68 

1868 

18.V.t-'61 

1859-'60 

1859 

1859 

1866 

1867 

1868 

1859 

18.59-'63 

1859 

1851 

1868 
1867 
1861-'62 
1866-'68 

18.54 

I857-'67 

18.57 

1868 

l867-'68 

1858-60 

1867-'t;8 

18.i9 

1867-'68 

1858-'64 

186.5-'C8 

18.59 

1862-'63 

1868 

1860-'61 

1854 

186! 

ie6C-'C7 

1868 

1865 

18.59-'62 

18.59 

1868 

1865 

I8.57-'.59 

1859-'60 


Nebkaska— Con'd. 
Omaha 


.Tames P. Allan 

C. B Wells 


18fil-'Cl 


Jeffer.'-on City 

Kirk^v•ille 


Peru 

K.'ck Bluffs. 

South I'as wagon 
road expedition. 

NEVADA. 

Star City 


J. fil. McKenzie 

11 (' Pardee 


1667 
1860-'6l 


Kirksville 

Laborville 

Lancaster 

Lexington 

Lexington 


C.H.Miller 

R. C. Johnson 

Rev. Wm. Hurlin 

F. N. Freeman 

Arthur Chase 

* Stephen O. Mead ... 

Linus Stevens 

Dr. Wm. Prescott 

II. E. Sawver 

E. P.Colbv 

JolmT. Wheeler 

James C. Knox 

Rev. L. W. Leonard. . 

Alfred Colby 

Rev L.W.Leonard.. 

Rev. Eiias Nason 

Louis Bell 

Dr. Martin N. Root... 

A.II.Bixby 

Henry E. Sawyer 

Prof. Ira Young and 

A. A. Young. 
Thos. B. Laighton . . . 
J.W.French, agt, L. ) 
W. C. &W. M.Co.. i 
Robert C. Whiting ... 

Robert C. Mack 

I-aacS. French, M.D. 
Hon. S.N. Bell 

R. F. Hanscom 

Chailes H. Pitman . .. 
Ilufus Smith 

Dr. C. Chase, U. S. N - 
Jyhn Hatch 


1859-'60 

1865 


Luray 


NEW HAMPSHIRE. 




Palis 






1866 '68 


Richmond 

Kockport 

Eolla 


ClareiDoiit 

Claremout 

(Haremont 

Clareinont 


1857-'53 
]859-'68 


Springfield 

St. JOM'ph 

Si. Louis 


1867-'68 
1849 57 




1857-58 
1 8."8 










]865-'68 

1868 

1819 


St. Louis 


Concord 




Dunbarton 

Exeter 


18.-^1 -'52 




18">3-'55 




Exeter 

Farmiiigton 

Francestown 

Francest'iwu 

Great Falls 


1 86! -65 

I86()-'61 

1857 

18.57-'58 

185-l-'.57 

18.53 '54 


St. Louis 

St. L' uis 

Stockton 

Toronto 




Isle of Shoals 




Tu^cumbia 


1849 




Lake Village.... > 

Liitltton 

Londonderry 

London Ridge 

Manchester 

North Barnstead. .. 
Noi til Bariiste.'id. . . 
North Littleton 

Portsmouth 

Portsmouth 

Salmon Falls 

Slielbourne 

Stratford 


1857-'61 


Warrensburg 

Warrenlon 

Warrenfon 

Wayne^ville 

Webtport 

MONTANA. 

Benton City 

Camp Cooke 

(/'antoninentWright 
Helena City 

NEBUASKA. 


1863-'64 

18i;!-'57 

1862-65 

1852-'.-,7 

185'J-'61 

1855-'.58 

I860-'68 

18.5'.i-'60 

186.3-64 

1849 

18(iT '68 


Alex. Camp Wheaton. 
D. E. Reed 


George B. Sawyer . . . 

Fletcher Odell 

B.Gould Brown 

Andrew Wiggius 

Branch Brown 

Alfred Brewster 

Joseph II. Hall 

Peter L. Iloyt 

Nath. Purmort 

Tho.s. B. Merrick 

R. L. Cooko 

Prof. Adolph Frost... 
Dr. E. U. Schmidt 

Prof. A. Frost and Dr. 
E. K. Schmidt. 

John C. Deacon 

William Parry 

.lames S. r,ippincott.. 

Howard Shriver 

,(. S. Fritts 


]8.53-'54 
18.">(i 
18.")6-'68 
18,55 '."j8 


Belle vue 


Stralham 

Stratford 

Tainworth 

Top of Mt. Wash- 
iiigton. 

Wentworth 

We.Ht Enfield 

NEW JERSEY. 

Belleville 

Bloonifield 

Burlington 

Burlington 

Burlington 

Burlington 

Cinnaminson 

Cole's Landing 

Dover 


1859 '60 


Belle vuc 


Rev. Wni. Hamilton.. 

Henry M. linrt 

Miss E. E.Caldwell .. 
Rev. Wni. Hamilton.. 

Cha'-hs B. Smith 

II. II. Brown 

Major Thos. S. Twiss 

Charles Sellz 

Anna JI. J. liowen. .. 
John S. Bo wen 


18.59-68 
18 7 
18.59 

18.59 
1856--58 

1849 
184'>-'.38 


Bellivne 


Blackbird Hills.... 
Brown ille 


Dakota City 

Deer Creek 

De Solo 

Elkhoru City 

Elkhorn City 

FoDtnnelle 


Font;:nello 

Foit Pi r ire 

Fort Union 


Henry Gibson 

M. C. Kos-eau 

E. T. Denig 


186-,'-'63 
184!)-'54 
1855 
18.57-'58 




A. L. Child, M. D 

Dr. A. C. Child and 

Miss J. E. Child. 
L.J. Hill 


1856 

1863- '68 
18.-.9-'60 


Glendalo 


Jonin 




Bila White . 


1^6li-•(;8 
lH('i7-'68 


N'ebra-ka City 


Edgar E. Mason 

P. Zahner 

R. O. Thompson 

Wm. .N'. Byers 

John 0. \iiiin 


Nebr.irka City 

NniMiy Hill 

Omaha 


Freehold 

Freehold 

Greenwich 1 


IJ. F. Simpson and 0. 

H. Wi|li,4. 
O.I!. Wi lis 


18.57-'.58 
1859-'62 


Omaba i 


Beni. Sheppard 


lci56-'0i 



iQ METEOROLOGICAL STxYTIONS AND OBSERVERS. 

List of Smithsonian meteorological stations and observers — Continued. 



Name of station. 


Name of observer. 


Years of 
observa- 
tions. 


Name of station. 


Name of observer. 


Yea 1-6 of 
observa- 
tions. 


N. Jersey— Con'd. 

Greenwich 

Greeuwich 


Clarkson Sheppard . . 
C. Sheppard and Miss 

U. C. .Sheppard. 
MissR.C. Sheppard.. 

John Clement, jr 

Samuel Wood 

Jacob S. Gary 

Howard A. Stokes . .. 

Arch. Alexander 

Dr. S. C. Thornt.n ... 
Miss E. E. Thornton 

Th S.J. Beans 

Jos. W. Lippii cott . . . 
Morgan J. Rhees, M.D 

W. A. Wliitehead 

Prof. Geo. H.Cook... 

E. T. Mack 


1864 
1865-'67 

1868 

1849 

1866-'68 

1849 

1861, '63 

1865 

1849. '61 

18.59 

180.3-'68 

1865 • 

1861-68 

1849-'68 

1854 

1865-'68 

1854 

1859 

1860 

1861 -Co 

1807-'68 

1868 

18(;8 

1863-'65 

ie66-'C8 

1863-'65 

1866-'67 

]86!)-'61 

1868 

1856 

1859 

1865-'67 

1868 

1857-'58 

1865-'68 

186r-'68 

1860 

1855-'57 

1859-'61 

1865-'66 
1849-'54 
1849-'51 
1854-'58 
1860-65 
1849-'C7 
1853-'54 
1657-'62 
1853-'59 
1855-'57 

1868 

1849-'52 

185:}-' 54 

1860 

1854 

1854 

1858-62 

1866-'C8 

1800-'63 

1853-'58 

18.56-64 

1865, '67 

1868 

1859-'63 

1849-5 1 

1853-'54 

1856 

1857-'59 

1862-'65 

1849 -v* 


N. York— Con'd. 
Clyde 


Matthew Mackie 

L. L. Pairchild 

Sereno Clark 

Rev. John J. Brown - 


1859 '62 


Constableville 

Con^tantia 


1852 
1861 
18.59 '61 


Haddoiifield 


Depauville 

East Franklin 

East Henrietta 

Eden 


1865 '68 


Haddonfield 

Lambert ville 

Long Branch 

Long Branch 


Dr. J. W. Smith 

A. S. Wad>worth 

Stephen Laiidon 

Anna S. Landon 

Laurens A. Langdon. 

A. B. Covert 

John C. Merritt 

* W. H. Denning 

Rev. Thos. H. Strong 
Rev. R. D. Van Kleck 
Rev. W. W. Howard. 
Rev. E. T. Mack .... 


18.54 
1859 -'62 
18.55 


Eden 


18.57 '59 




1853-'54 






18.59 


Jlorristown 

Morristown 

Mount Holly 

Newark 


Faimingdale 

Fishkill Landing .. 
Flatbush 


1868 
1855-'66 
1854 '55 


Fliitbush 

Flatbush 


1856-60 
1860 




Flatbush 


18(i:>-'68 

1856 




Edwin Allen 

Edwin Allen and G. 

W. Thompson. 
Geo. W. Thompson .. 
E. D. Couch 




Claudius Pernot 

H. M. Paine, M. D... 

Rev. Jno. Aubierand 

Prof. A. T. Monroe. 

P. A. McMore 

Prof. Solomon Siaa .. 


1856-57 


New Brunswick. .. 


Fordham 


1858 

185;!-' 62 


New Brunswick 

Newtield 




1864 
1863 '66 


New Girmantown. 


Arthur B.Noll 

Thos. Ryerson, M. D . 


Port Edward 

Fort Niagara 


1857-'59 

18.5'.)-'63 


Passaic Valley 


Prof. D. J. Pratt 

George W. Fries 

Thos. B. Arden 

Rev. W. D.W^ilson... 


1854 '63 




Friendship 


1864 




Thos. J. Beaus 

John Fleming 

Prof. L. Harper 

Jerusha R. Palmer. .. 
C. M. Dodd 


1866-'67 


Readiiigton 


1860-'61 




1863-'68 




1855-57 


Salem 




1864-'68 




George Watson 

Barker Cole 

E. C. Ci'le . ... 


1859 




Germantown 

Gerraantown 

Gouverneur 

Gouverneur 

Glen's Falls 

Great Valley 


Wm. Tompkins 

Rev. Saiiford W. Roe 
Dr. P. O. "Williams... 

Cyrus H. Russell 

Warren P. Adams ... 

Kathalo Ki Isey 

Col. E.C. Frost 

David Trowbridge... 

A. A. Hibbard 

Edwin C. Reed 

Walter D. Yale 

Prof. Oran W. Morris. 

J. D. IngersoU 

Rev. SaufordW. Roe. 

Albert G. Carll 

Peter Ried 


1859 




1866-68 


Sergeantsville 


John T. Sergeant 

Ephraim R. Cook 

Jno. Ingram, M. D 

George Watson 

James M. Reads 

C. D.Potter, M. D .. 
H. M. Paine, M. D... 

L. F. Munger 

James H. Ball 

E. M. Alba 


1852-'54 
18(10-68 




1854 


Woodstown 


l&59-'60 
1859-'60 


NEW MEXICO. 

Pope's Expedition. 

NEW YORK. 

Adam's Centre 

Albany 


Hector 

Hermitage 


18(i5-'67 
1860-'62 
1855-'57 


Houseville 

Inst, for Deaf and 

Dumb, N. Y. 
Ilion 


1 849-' 54 
]856-'60 
1.8C.5-'G8 
1849-'68 

1859-60 




Jamestown 

Jericho, L. I 


1 863-66 




1849 




John B Dill 


1856-'58 




John Bowman 

C. S. Woodward 

H. W. Titus 




L. F. Munger 

C. C. Merriam 

John Felt 


18.54 






1868 


BiUport 




1855-'56 




Thos. B, Arden 

W. W. Sanger M. D. 

E. A. Smith and 
daughters. 




Prof. S. A. Lattimore. 
Daniel Edwards 


1861 


Blackwell'B Island, 
N Y. 


Little Genesee 


1866-'68 
1849 






James B. Trevor 

* Jiihn Lefferts 

Irah R. Adams 

J. Caroll House 

Dr. E. W. Sylvester . 

E. A. Dayton 

Lewis Swit t 


1849-52 






1849-'58 


Buffalo 




1854 


Buffalo 


Elias 0. Salisbury . . . 

Dr. S. B. Hunt 

W. D. Allen 

William Ives 

U. S. Engineers 

E. W. Johnson 

Prof. Aaron White. .. 
Prof. Wm. Soule .... 

Andrew Mulligan 

Cornelius Chase 

C. Thornton Chase. .. 

Prof Root 

H. M. Paine, M. D... 

J. P. Chapman 




1854-'58 






1859-'62 


Buffalo 


Madrid 


18l9-'59 


Buffalo 


1863 


Buffalo 


McGrawville 


J. Metcalf Smith 

John R. French 

D. S. Bussing and J. 
W. Bussing. 

J. W. Bussing 

James Lewis 

William Day 

E. A. Smith and Miss 
N. Smith. 

Ezra Pariiielee 

Rev. Snmuel Johnson 
Jam^s H. Gardiner .. 
U. S. Naval Station. . 
J. S. Gibbons 


1856-'57 




185,5-'57 






1867 


Canton 

Cazenovia 


Minaville 


1868 
1861-68 


Charlotte ... . 


Morristown 


1859 
1864-'67 










1849 




Newark Valley 


1868 


Clinton 


1864-'68 


Clockville ,,.. 


New York 

New York 


1849- 
1854 



METEOROLOGICAL STATIONS AND OBSEEVERS. 



79 



List of Smithsonian mcteorolooiciil stations and obscrrers — ContinueJ. 



Name of station. 



N. YORK»— Con'd. 

Now York 

New York, (East- 
ern DispenBury.) 

New York 

Ni'w York, (Ruth- 
erford's Obser- 

V.ltlTV.) 

Nt" ^ York 

Niw York, (N. Y. 
Skatiug Club.) 

New York 

Ne«' York, (Colum- 
bia Cjollcge.) 

New York, (Cen- 
tral Park Obser- 
vatory.) 

North Argyle 

North Hammond . 

North .Salera 

North Salem 

North Volney 

Nichols 

Ogdensburg 

Oneida 

Oswi go 

Oswego 

Oswego 

Otto 

Ovid : 

Palisades 

Palmyra 

Peekskill 

Penn Yan 

Perry City 

Philipstown 

Pine Hill 

Plainvill'! 

Plattsiiurg 

Pompey 

Porapey Hill 

Poughkeepsie 

Rochester 

Rochester 

Rochester 

Rochester 

Rochester 

Sackett's Harbor .. 
Sackett's Harbor . 
Sackett's Harbor . 

Sag Harbor 

Saratoga , 

Saugertios 

Saugerties 



Schenectady ... 

Schenectady ... 

Soneca Falls 

Seneca Falls ... 

Seneca Palls 

Seneca Falls ... 

Sennett 

Sheiliiirne 

Si g Sing 

Skaueateles . ... 

Sloansville 

Suiithville 

Soniervillo 

South EdmcHton 
South Ilartlbrd. 

South Trenton . 
Spencertown ... 
Spencertown... 



Name of observer. 



S. DeWittBloodgood 
Caleb Swann and Dr. 
J. P. Loines. 

Fred. I. Slade 

Charles C. VYakcly... 



Naval hospital. 
E. B. Cook.... 



Rev JohnM. Aubier. 
Prof. Chas. A. Joy... 

Haden Patrick Smith 



Geo. M. Hunt 

Charles A. ^Voostcr. 

John F. Jenkins 

Mrs. M. J. Lobdell.. 

J. M. Partrick 

R. Howell , 

W. E. Guest 

Dr. Stillman Spooner 

C. Strong 

J. H. Hart 

Capt. W. S. Malcolm 
Prof. Weston Flint . 

J. \V. Chickeriug 

W. S. Oilman, jr ... 

Ste|)heu Hyde 

Charles A. Lee 

Dr. H. P. Sartwell . 

David Trowbridge. . 

Thos. B. Arden , 

Godfrey Zimmerman 

J. II. Norton 

Joseph W. Tavlor. . 
S. Marshall Ingalls .. 

John F. Kendall 

Prof. C. B. Waring .. 

Prof. Wetherell 

* Prof. C. Uewey... 
*Prof. M.M Matthews 
H. Wells Mathews... 

W. M. L. Fisk 

U. S. Naval Station.. 

Mandrin Linus 

H. xMetcalf 

K. N. Hviam 

Walter il. Riker 

R. G. Williams 

Jas. W. Grush, Jns. 

M. Alexander, and 

Levi S. Packard. 
Robert M. Fiillerand 

Haren V. Swait. 
Alexis A. Julien 

and H. A. Schauber. 

Elisha Foote 

John P. Fairchild.... 

Chas. A. Avery 

Philo Cowing 

Henry B. Fellows . . . 
kev. Jas. R. Haswell 

C. F. Maurice 

W. M. Beaueharap. .. 

G. W. I'otter 

J. Everett Breed 

Dr. F. B. Hongh 

L. A. Beardsley 

Grenvillo M. logals- 

bee. 
Capt. Storrs Barrows. 

A. W. Morehiiuse 

Irving Magee 



Years of 
observa- 
tions. 



iej4-'55 
1854-'(il 



186;'-'61 
18')U-'C3 



1860-'fi8 
1863-'ti6 



lg65-'67 
1865-'68 



1867-'G8 



1864 

]8(j0-'68 

ie'!i)-'5;i 

1855-'56 

18(;8 

]8o7-'68 

1849-5.3 

1854-'(i3 

]8(;4-'G8 

1849 

1851 -'54 

1854-'08 

]8(il 

1855-'58 

18fi8 

18G4-'65 

1854 

ie54-'57 

18.59 

18(J4 

1851 -'52 

1859-'fiO 

185(i-'57 

185.')-'57 

1857-'58 

1856 

1849 

1849 

1855-67 

I859-'67 

1868 

1868 

1819 

18.")1-'.V2 

i85y-'6;i 

1849-'58 
]8."-6-'.59 
1863-66 
1859-'60 



1864 

1858-'59 

1849 

1849-'52 

18.".3-.54 

1861-64 

16.')7 

1865 

1849-52 

186(>-'67 

1868 

1849-52 

18.")4-'56 

184;)-'5l 

1849-'51 

ie63-'68 

1863-'68 
18.5.V57 
18.-« 



Name of station. 



N. York— Con'd. 

Spencertown 

Springvillo 

Springville 

Staplcton 

Sufferu 

Syracuse 

Theresa 

Throg's Ne^'k 

Throg's Neck 

Troy 

Troy 

■■i'roy 

Troy 

Utica 

Utica 

Vermillion 

Wales 

^Vampsville 

Warsaw 

Waterburgh 

Waterford 

Watertown 

Waterville 

WellsviUe 

West Concord 

West Day 

West Farms 

West Morrisania. . . 

White Plains 

AVilsou 

NORTH CAROLINA. 

Asheville 

Asheville 

Asheville 

Attaway Hill 

Chapel Hill 

Davidson College.. 

Gaston 

Goldsborough 

Greensboro' 

Goldsborough 

Green Plains 

Guilford Mine 

Jacksop 

KenausviHe 

Lake Scuppomong 
Lake Scuppernoiig 

Linci'luton 

Marlboro' 

Murfreesboro' 

Oxford 

Oxford 

Raleigh 

Raleigh 

Raleigh 

Rutherfnrdtown . . . 

Statesville 

Thornbury 

Thornbury 

Trinity College, 

Warrentou 

Wilson 

OHIO. 

Andrews 

Athei'S 

Auslinburg 

Austinburg 

Austinburg 

Austinburg 



Name of observer. 



Levi S. Packard 

J. W. Earlo 

Moses Lane 

Spencer L. Hillier . .. 
James H. Warren ... 
Henry L. Uinsmore.. 

S O. Gregory 

Francis M. Rogers... 
Mi«.-< Elizabeth Munis 
John W. Heimstreet 
Prof. E. A. H. Allen. 
Prof. Dascom Greeue. 

Wm. L. Haskiu , 

Dr. L. A. Tourtellot , 



Joseph Graham 

E. B. B^irtlett 

S. O Carpenter 

Dr. Stillman Spooner. 

J. P. Morse 

David Trowbridge. . . 

John C. House 

Dr. P. O. Williams .. 

James M. Tower 

U. M. Sheerer 



Lewis Woodward 

Jude M. Young 

J. S. Gorton 

L Zaepffel , 

O. R.Willis 

E. S. Holmes 



Years of 
observa- 
tions. 



W. W. McDowell 

E. J. Ast. n 

J. F. E. Hardy, M. D. 
P. J. Koou 



Prr.f. James Phillips. 
Prof. W. C. Kerr . . . 
<ieo. F. Moore, M. D 

Prof. D. Morelle 

Geo. F. -Moore, M. D 
Prof. E. W. Adams . 

Sam'l W. Westbrook. 
Alexander Wray . 
Rev. Fred. Fitzgerald 
Prof. N. B. Webster 
Ri^v. J. A. Sheppard 

D. Morrell 

Dr. J. Bryant Smith 
Robert II. Drysdale.. 
Rev. A. McDowell.. 

John H.Mills 

Wm. R. Hicks, M. D 
T. Carter and W. H. 

Hamilton. 

W. H. Hamilton 

Rev. Fisk I". Brewer 

J. W. (Jallciway 

Thos. A. Allison 

Rev. F. Fitzgerald.. 

Dan. Mi>relle 

Rev. B. Craven 

Dr. W. M. Johnson.. 

E. W. Adams 



Dr. W. W. Spratt.... 
I'rof. W. W. Mather.. 
J. G. D.ile and C. S. 
.S. (irifling. 

David S. Alvord 

J. G. Dole 

E. D. W^inchester 



18'"! 

1849 

1851 

1867-'68 

1863 

1851-52 

]8fit-'68 

lt'64, '66 

1 8ti.")-'68 

lS4;)-68 

18.53-'.')4 

I^.jC-S? 

186U-'6l 

18.')6-'57 

1868 

1860 

186l)-'C8 

1854 

l,>-'53-'63 

1865 

1868 

18.v6-'63 

1855-'.-)7 

1849-'5l 

18.57-'58 

1860 

1856-'57 

18d8-'59 

I856-'57 

lS.57-'59 

1862-'68 

1858-'64 



1857-'58 

1867-'68 

1868 

1849-'62 

1 867-68 

1849-'6l 

1858-'59 

18.56-'58 

1855-'58 

1859-61 

1860-'CI 

1868 

1859 

1867 

i8.'.2-'54 

1868 

1849-'52 

1851 

18.54 

1858 

18.56-'61 

18ll6-'67 

1867-'68 

1859 

1860 

18i;6-'68 

1849 

1866-'68 

18.54 , 

16.54 < 

1860-'61 

ia57-'58 

1866 



186n-'Gl 
1849-'51 
1862-'63 

1864 
1864 
1864-'66 



80 



METEOROLOGICAL STATIONS AND OBSERVERS. 



List of Smithsonian meteorological stations and ohse.Kcers — Continued. 



Name of station. 


Name of observer. 


Years of 

obsei-va- 

tions. 


Name of station. 


Name of observer. 


Years of 
observa- 
tiocs. 


Ohio — Continued. 


Rev.L.F. Vv'ard 

Rev. '.(.Shields and J. 

C.Smith. 
Rev. Robert Shields.. 

Joseph Shaw 

Prof. G. M. Barber . . . 

Geoige W. Crane 

W. R. Peck, M. D .... 

John Chirke 

Rev. S. L. Hillier .... 
Hubert A. Schauber 
Hubert A. Schauber . 
Ebenezcr Hannaf 'rd 


a858-'6i) 
1857-'59 

186i)-'61 

1855-'60 

18.o4 

1 H5U-'68 

1857-'6;i 

18(ib-'f;8 

18.'i9-'61 

1863 

18fi4--66 

18.n.V57 

1849 

1854 

]857-'58 

]e5.'i-'68 

1859-'C3 

1859-'fi4 

l8(»-'6:2 

18fi.-3--(i8 

1851 

1855-'61 

1868 

le.'ia 

1858-63 

]86il-'fi3 

1862-'67 

1866-'68 

1854 

]853-'57 

1858-'65 

]859-'68 

183.'5-67 

1856-'57 

1858 

18fil-'62 

1851, '52 

1860 

1861 

1862-'63 
1864-'65 
18.i9-'63 
1856 

18.=i6 

;858 

1861 -'62 

1859-'67 

1854 

18fi.3-'65 

l857-'58 

1855-'57 

1859-'60 

1861 

1862 

1854-'56 

1 857-' 58 

1864 -'68 

1861-63 

1852-'56 

1856-'57 

1 849 

1849-'.58 

ie6U-'61 

1851-'60 

1863-'68 

18.57 

1863 

1855 

1856 
]856-'60 
1 8.59-60 
1852 


Ohio — Continued. 


Prof C. A. Youngand 

E. W. Childs. 
Prof. C. A. Young 

and A. C Barrows. 
Prof. C. A. Young. E. 

W. Stuart, J. C. El. 

lio t. W. Pettiiigill. 

H. R. Watterson. 
Prof. C. A. Youngand 

J. C. Ellio t. 
Edmund W. West... 

S. T. Boyd 

Geo. L Crookham... 
G. L Crookham and 

M. Gilmoie. 
S. B. Wood 


1858 '59 


Bellecentre 






Bellecentre 




1862 


Bellefontaine 

iJeiea 






Bethel 

Bowling Green 

Bowling Green 


1863 




18")4 


Ca; iliugton 

Centralia 


Iber.a 

Jack-on 


1859 
1849-54 




.rackson 






F. W. Hurtt 


1855 




Geo.W. Harper 

A. A. Warder 

R. C. & J.H.Phillips. 

Eli T. Tapiiau 

R.C.Phillips 

Gustavus A. Hyde . . . 

Edward Wade 

Edward Colburn 

U. S. Engineers 

G. A. Hyde and Mrs. 

Hyde. 

T. A. Smurr 

G. S. Oimsby 

Prof. R. S. Bosworth 
Prof. J. II. Wilson.... 

J. W. Ham mitt 

L. H.Tucker an 

Henry 15ennett 

Sarah E. Bennett 

Thos. H. Johnson 

Theo. G. VVormley- . . 

Mark Sperry 

Rev. E. Ti ompson 

and Mark Sperry. 
Rev. EliHs Thompson. 

iD.M. Rankin 

F. G Hill . . 




1857 '58 




Jacksonburgh 

Jefferson 


J. B. Owsley, M. D.. 
James D. Hi rrick . .. 
Dr. E. C.Bidwell.... 


18(8 


Cincinnati 


lH55-'58 
184'l '.52 




Keene 


185:! '54 






C. H. Smith, M. D... 

Geo. C. Huntingdon.. 
Prof Jnn. Haywood 

Samuel Knoble 

Levvis M. Dayton 

H. W. Ja.ger 

W. E. Davis ., 

J. W. Towson 

Joseph C. Hatfield- .. 
James Eraser 

E. J. Ferriss 

Rev. L S. Atkins 

Mrs. Aiilelia C. King. 

F. A. Benton 

D. P. Adams 

Prof. J. VV. Andrews - 
H. A. True. 


Ifjfi-T -fi:} 




Kelly's Island 


1866 '68 




1859-'68 
18fi3 '67 






18G7 


Cleveland 


Lancaster 

Lancaster 


18.57 
1858 




1 8.59 




Lancaster 


1866 
1849 


College Hill 

CoUegi^ Hill 

C<'lle"e Hill * 


Little Hocking 

Little Mountain . .. 


18fi2-'63 
1867-68 
1857 '60 


Coli.ge Hill 

Co]le"-e Hill 




1859- '63 




1851 '52 






186 '63 


Colliujiuood 




184'i '.55 


Marion 


1865 '68 




T Chase 


1859 




Martin's Ferry 


Charles R. Shreve ... 
Rev. L. F. Ward .... 

Wm. P. Clarke 

Michael Beecher 

Rev. D. 'I'hompsou .. 
Enoch D. Johnson. .. 
Senior cla<s Mt. Au- 
burn Female Inst. 
David H Tweedy... 

William LaiJham 

Newton Anthony 

F. A. Benton 

W. C. Hampton 

Lewis Rl. Dayton 


1867 




1H57 '58 






1859 '63 




Mi<ldlebury 

Milnersville 

Monroe county 

Mount Auburn 

Mt. Pleasant 

Mount Tabor 

Mount Union 

M'nint Vernon 

Mount Victory 


18-19 


Cuyahoga Palls . .. 
Dalia^burg 


l&62-'68 
1859 


Cooper Female Semi- 
nary. 
Jas. C Fischer, M. D 

Lewis Groneweg 

Mrs. M. A. PiUsbury. . 

S.B. McMillan 

Dr. J. P. Kirtland 

Thomas J. Larsh 

Smith Saijford 

"V^^ L. Schenck, M.D. 

H. M. liavidson 

H. M. Davidson and 
Wilson Davidson. 

Wilson I>avidson 

G. W. Livesay 

A. P. Rog, rs 

Warren Pierce 

L. Groncweg 

J. S. Binkerd 

Prof. P. Carter 

Dr. S. N. Siiutord . . . . 

W. G. Fuller 

Rev. J. McD. Math- 
ews. 
C. C. Jtuies 


1868 




185n-'60 




1849 


East Cleveland.... 

East Fairtit'ld 

Ea^t Rockport 

Eaton . . . 


1857-'60 
1853-'55 
1859-60 
1 851-55 






1859-'63 




New Concord 

New Lisbon 

N'vv Westfield 

North Bend 

North Fairfield .... 
N<irthwood 


Prof. s. G. Irviue 

J.F. Benner 

A. E. Jerome 

R. B. Warder 


1849 




1 8.57-68 


Freedom 


186J-'63 

1868 

1867-68 


Gallipolis 

Gallipolis 

Garrettsville ..■ 

Germantown 

Genmintown 


Prof J. R.W. Sloane. 

W.D. Watkins 

G. A. Hyde 

Rev. Alfred Newton. 
Profs. Fairchild and 

Dascomb. 
Prof J. N: Allen 

Prof. J. H. Fairchild.. 

Frederick Allen 

F. Holleubeck 

F. and D. K. Holleu- 
beck. 

Jam! s H. Poe 

D. B. Cotton, M. D .. 

Lud. Engelbrecht 

Stephen S. Dorsey... 
Jacob N. Desellem .. 


1852 
1849 


Norwalk 

Norwalk 

Oberlin 


1854 
1861 -'68 
1849-'50 

1851-52 




Oberlin 


18.J7 




1853-56 


Hillsborough 

Hillsborough 

Hillsborough 

Hiram 




1861) 


Perry sburg 

Perry sburg 

Portsmouth 

Portsmouth 

Portsmouth 

Republic 

Richmond 


l854-'56 
1858 


Dr. C. C. Samms 

S. L. Hillier and S. 

M. Luther. 
Spencer L. Hillier . .. 

S. M. Lutlier 

Dr. John Rhoadea ... 
Thos. F. Withrow ... 


18.57 

18.5.5-'.58 
1859-'C3 




li^63-65 


Hocking Port 

Homer 


1851 
]854-'55 



METEOROLOGICAL STATIONS AND OBSERVERS, 
List of Smithsonian met eorologicul stations and observers — Continued. 



81 



Name of station. 



Ohio — Continued. 
If'pl'T 

liii'i^^y 

Ripley 

RusKtll Station 

Sandusky 

Savannah 

Saybr-ixik 

Siiybiook 

St^ville 

Sharonville 

Sidney 

Smitl'.fleld 

Sniithville 

Smitliville 

Stt-ubi-nville 

Steubenville 

Spriiiglield 

Tok do 

Toledo 

Toledo 

Troy 

Twinsburg 

Uiiioiiville 

luiouville 

Urban a 

^Vest Bedford 

■SVelchiield 

AVcllington 

AV'e.iterville 

Westerville 

AV (Stern Star 

Wi St Union 

■\Voo.sti-r 

"Wooster 

W'illiamsport 

"Windliam 

Yankeetown 

Yellow .Springs. . .. 

Zaiie.sa.-ld 

Zane>ville 

Zane^ville 

Zanesville 

ORKGON. 

Albany 

Auburn 

Auburn 

Corviillls 

Fort Snyder. 

Fori TlioinpBon . .. 

Orrpou City 

Portland 

Salem 

Salem 

PKNNSYLVANIA. 

Ablngton 

Alti'ona 

Altoxna 

Aiideri-ville 

Beaver 

Bedford 

Bedford 

Belief nte 

BenderHville 

Bendersvillo 

Berwick 

Bethlehem 

Betlibliein 

B" thiehein 

Blairsville 

Blooming Grove . . . 

BroiikvlUe 

Byberry 



Name of observer. 



J. Ammen 

Dr. G. B.imback... 
Mrs. M. M. Marsh . . . 

J. W. Gamble 

Thomas NMell 

Dr. John Ingram ... 
Uev. L. S. Atkins . .. 

James B. Fraser 

Kev. L. K. Ward ... 

Wm F. Bdweu 

Joseph Shiiw 

D. H. Tweedy 

John H. Myers 

Wm. Hoover 

R .-well Marsh 

J.B. D<..le 

Saunii I C. Frey 

Sarah E. Bmrntt... 

E. B. Raflfensperper . 
J. B. Tnnibley, M. D 
Charles L. McCluug. 
N. A. Chapman .... 
Miss A. Cuiningham 
Mrs. Ardelia C. King 
Pi of. M. G. Williams 

H. D. McCarty 

B. F. Abell 

Rev. L. F. W'ard .... 
Prof. Juo. Uay wood. . 

Prof. H. A. Thompson 

A. S. Stuver 

Rev. Wm. Lumsden . 

Eugene Pardee 

Martin Wringer 

John R. Wilkinsiin. .. 

Samuel W. Treat 

A. Jacque 

W. A. Anthony 

John F. LikinS 

L. M. Dayton 

Adam Peters 

J. G. F. Holstou, M.D. 



S. M. W. Ilindman . 

R. B. Ironside 

S. M. W. Hindman 

A. D. Barnard 

James A. Snyder.. 

W. U. Wagner 

Geo. A. Atkinson .. 
Geo. H. Stebliins... 
ThoH. II. Crawford. 
P. L. Willis 

Rodman Siason 

W. R. Boyers 

Thomas II. .Savcry 

R. Weiser 

Rev. R.T.Taylor.. 

* .Samuel Biown 

Rev. I!. Ilcekerman 

J.l. Bnrrell 

Franklin W. Cook. 
T. E. Cook ^ Sons. 
John Eggert 

L. R. Iluebener 

Nallian C. Tooker . 
I'rof. A.M. Mayer.. 

W. K. Boyers 

John Grathwohl. . . 

D. S. Deeriiig 

John Comly 



Years of 
observa- 
tions. 



18,57-'()1 
I8U4-'G7 
18iu-'(i8 
ifoy-'tio 

18.'i'<-'ti8 

i8:)4-t;3 

lHli2-'fi3 

1804-'(i6 

1861-'(;-3 

18.5y-'G0 

1857 

18()6 

]f'(;4-'6fi 

1868 

184i)-(;3 

ie(i5-'(!8 

1859-01 

1859 

lr59 

1860-"(;8 

1859-C:i 

18110 

1854-'57 

18.58 

1855-'C8 

1856-'57 

1 857-66 

I86:J 

l8.Jrt-'62 

18(18 

I86:l-'(i7 

1861 

186n-'61 

1849 

1864-68 

1867-'68 

1857-',59 

W'A 

1868 

18.54 

18.56 

1859 

1853-'57 



1865-'68 

lh():i-65 

llr<64-'65 

186G-'G8 

18.58 

1857-'58 

1851-'5-J 

1858- '59 

1861 

18C3-'65 



1864-T)8 

I8.5ii-'GU 

18(i:} 

1854 

1867-'fi8 

18.53-'.58 

1859-6 1 

18.58-'59 

1859 

1859-'fiO 

I8.56-'6I 

186:i-'65 

1849 

1867 

1 867-68 

1861-65 

186.5-'G8 

18.54 

l852-'54 

1857-'58 



Name of station. 



Penn.— Continued. 

By berry 

By berry 

(.'auonsbur!< 

Canousburg 

Cauonsburg 

Canonsburg 

Canonsburg 

Uani.sle 

Carlisle 

Carlisle 

Carpenter 

Ceres 

Chambersburg 

Chronii dale 

Chrumedale 

Clarksburg 

Counellsville 

Darby 

Dy berry 

Easton 

Easton 

Easton 

Easton 

Easton 

Easton 

East Smithfield..., 

Erie 

Kphrata 

Kallsington 

Friinklin. 

Freeport 

Freeport 

[•"■reeport 

Freeport 

Fleming 

Fountiiin Dale 

Germantown 

Germantown 

Germantown 



Gettysburg 
Gettysburg 



Gettysburg 



Grampian Hills. 

liari isbnrg 

HanisbU'g 

Hanisburg 

Ilaverford 

Hollidaysburg.. 

Honesdale 

Horsham 

Huntingdon 

Ickesburg 

Indiana 

Indiana 



Johnstown 

Kiiigsleys 

Lancaster 

Lancaster 

Latrobe 

Latrobe 

Lewisburg 

Lima 



Name of observer. 



Lima 

Lima 

Linden 

Miinehester . 
Meadville ... 
Rliadville . .. 
Media 



John W. Saurman . . . 
Isiiae C. Mai tindalo.. 
Prof. J. U.Williams.. 

F. L. Sti wart 

Rev.Wm.8mith,D. D 

Charles Davis 

Lyceum Jefferson Col. 

Pn.f. S. F. Baird 

Prof. W. C. Wilson. . . 

W.H.Couk 

E. L. McN.-tt 

R. P. Stivens 

Wm. Hey ser, jr 

Joseph Edwards 

Joseph Edwards and 

John H. Smedley. 

B:ani t McElroy 

John TayliT 

John Jackson 

Theodore l;ay 

A. R. McCoy 

Prof. J. H. Coffin 

E. L. Dodder 

Selden J. Coffin 

Selden J. Coffin and 

G. S. Hou;;hion. 

Geo. .S. Houghton 

James E. 'I racy 

Beniamin Grant 

W. il. Spera 

Ebt nezer Hanco 

Rev. M. A. Tolman . 

Dr. A. Alter 

Andrew Roulston 

A.D. Wier 

John H. Baird 

Samuel Biugger 

S. C. Walker 

S.Ebert 

Thos. Meehan and J. 

Meehan. 
Thomas Meehau 



Years of 
observa- 
tions. 



Prof. M. .Tacobs 

Rev. M. Jacobs and 

D. Eyster. 
Rev. M. Jacobs and 

H. E. Jacobs. 

Elisha Feiiton , 

Dr. J. Heisely , 

W.O. llickiik , 

K. A. M:irtin 

Dr. Panl Swift 

J. R. Lowrio 

M H.Cobb 

Miss Anna Spencer . 
Wm. Brewster, M. D 

Wm. E. Baker 

Diivid Peelor 

Wm. 1). Ihldebrand 

and David Peelor. 

David Peelor 

Francis Schreiner 

F. A. Muhlcnburg.jr . 

John Wise 

Prof. Rudolph Muller. 

W. K. Boyers 

Prof. C. S. James 



Messrs. Edwards and 
Miller. 

Joseph lOd wards 

John II. Smedley 

James Barrett 

('oryilon Marks 

Prot. L. D.Wdliams.. 

T. II.Thickstuu 

Isaac N. Kciliu, M. D- 



18fiO-'6I 
186 1 -'67 
. 1849 

1849 

185.5-'61 

iei):j-'68 

I860 

1861-63 

1849 

185.5-59 

1868 

186-2 

1849-54 

1 8,58- (y 

1854-'57 

1858 

1852 

1849-'68 

1849-52 

ie6.)-'68 

1849 

1851 

1851 

18.'.7-'58 

1859-'60 

1861 
18.59 

184^ 

186.5-'68 

1 86.5-' 68 

1867-'63 

1849 

1849-51 

1854 

1860 

1856-'C7 

1868 

1859 

186l'-'64 

1859-'61 
186.5-'68 
1849-60 
1861 

1862-'C5 

1864-'68 

1849-'68 

1857-'64 

ie6l)-'61 

185:t-'63 

18.53 

18,52 

1864-'63 

1859 

1867-68 

1849. '51 

1858 

1868 

18.52 

1849 

1849-'5l 

l8(;0-'62 

1861 

185.'>-'fiO 

186.-.-'68 

1849-52 

18.53 

18.59 

18.58-'50 

1849-'52 

ie49-'5I 

1854-'58 

1860 



6 s 



METEOROLOGICAL STATIONS AND OBSERVERS. 
List of Smithsonian meteorological stations and observers — Contiuued. 



Name of station. 


Name of observer. 


Y' ars of 

observa- 
tions. 


Name of station. 


1 
Name of observer. 


Years of 
observa- 
tions. 


PeNN. — Continued. 

Moorliead 

Jlorrisville 

MoinVville 

MofS Gr«ve 

Jlount Joy 

Mount Joy 

Irlurry>ville 

Mnrrysville 

Nazareth 

Nazareth 


R.L.Walker 

Ebenezer Hance 

Mahlon Moore 

Francis Schreiner 

Mary E. Hofftr 

Dr. Jacob R. Hoffer.. 
Thomas H. Stewart.. 

F. L. Stewart 

E. T. Kluge 


1863 

]849-'64 

lt-^59 

ie53-'57 

1857-58 

]860-'f;8 

1857-09 

1867-'68 

1851 

1852 

1855-'57 
1859-'60 
1801 
1863 

18fi3-'66 

186(i-'f;8 

1851-'63 

1867 

]856-'68 

iefi3-'C4 

1865 

1851-'.58 

1859-63 

1865 

1849 

1849 

1849-'52 

1849-' 53 

1853-60 

1863-'68 

1857-'68 

1860-'61 

1863 

1864 

1864-65 

1867 

1849-'51 

1849-'54 

1853-'58 

1857 

1855 

18.58 

1859-'61 

1863 

1868 

1853-'58 

]t66-'68 

1854-'55 

1855 

1857 

1858 

1851-'52 

1854-'56 

18.57-63 

1866-'68 

J 858 

1858 

]859-'60 

1861 

1862 

1856-'63 

1863-'68 

18,52 

1856 

1857-'61 

1866-67 

1849 

1849-51 

1852-'54 

1853 

1852 

1863 

1856-'60 


P£NN.— Contiuued. 

Tioga 

Towanda 

Troy Hill 

Uuiontown 

Valley Forge 

Warrior's Mark 

Waynenboro' 

Wellsboro' 

Wesichester 

Westchester 

Westchester 

Whitehall Station . 

Williamsport 

Worihingtou 

Youngsville 

RHODE ISLAND. 

East Greenwich . . . 
Newport 


E. T. Bentley 

S. J. Coffin, W. H. 
Deau, i. H. Kings- 
bury. 

Victor Scriba 

Freeman Lewis 

C. P. Jones 


1863-'68 
1861 

1855-'56 
1849 
1849 
1854 


Rev. D. J. Eyler 

Henry W. Thorp 

Samuel Alsop 

Prof. A. G. Clark and 
T. H. Aldrieh. 

Dr. G' o. Martin 

Edward Kohler 

H. C. Moyer 


li-53 '54 


E. T. Kluge and E. 

Kummer. 
H. A. Brickenstein . .. 

J. C. Harvey 

O.T. Huebuer 

O.T. HnebnerandL. 

E. Rickstcker. 

L. E. Ricksecker 

E. M. .McConnell 

Rev. J. G. Ralston 

John T. Millikeu 

Edward Kohler 

James A. Weeks 

Henry Duflield, M. D. 

Jacob Fraiitz 

Feuelon Darlingtou.. 

U. S. Navy -yard 

Lt. Jos. Reed, U.S.N. 

Dr. Paul Swift 

J. F. Coorlies 

Prof. J. A. Kirkpat- 

rick. 
U. S. Naval Hospital 
J. C. Martiudale, M.D. 
p. Friel 


1849 

1858-59 

1864-'65 


Nazareth 

Nazareth 

Nazareth 


1868 

1859-'60 

1864 


Nazareth 

New Castle 

Norristown 

Northeast 

North Whitehall. . . 
Oil City 


Samuel Scott 

Dr. A. C. Blodget 

E.G.Arnold 

Samuel Powel 

Wm. H. Crandall.... 
Henry C. Sheldon . .. 

Geo. .Manchester 

Prof. A. Caswell 

H.C.Sheldon 

H. W.Ravenel 

Rev. J. H. Cornish . . . 

E. S. Earle 


18.59-'62 
1853-54 

1855-'56 
1854 






1865-'68 


Parkerville 

Philadelphia 

Philadelphia 

Philadelphia 

Philadelphia 

Philadelphia 


North Scituate 

Portsmouth 

Providence 

Providence 

SOUTH CAROLINA. 


1853-'54 
1854 

1849-'67 
1860-'64 

1854 '56 


Philadelphia 

Philadelphia 

Philadelphia 

Philadelphia 

Philadelphia 

Philadelphia 

Pittsburg 




1857 '61 




1867-'68 
1868 


Homer Eachers 

Penri'vauia Hospital. . 
J M Ellis . . 


Barrattsville 

Beaulbrt 

Black Oak 

Camden 


Dr. Jno. P. Barratt . . . 
Dr. M. M. Marsh and 
Mrs. Marsh. 

Thos. P. Ravenel 

J. A. Youug,M. D... 

T. Carpenter 

Prof. L. R. Gibbes 

Dr. Jos. Johnsou 

J. L. Dawson, M. D.. 
Jos. Johnson, M. D., 

and J. L. Dawson, 

M. D., and G. S. 

Pelzer, M. D. 

Col. W. Wallace 

F. H. Harleston 

Prof. J. B. White .... 

Capt. C. C. Tew 

E. H. Barton, M. D.. 
Sup't Arsenal Acad'y. 

E. N. Fuller 

Rev. Alex. Glennie . . 

Charles Pettv 

Maj. J. W. A'bert, U. 

S. Eug., Capt. C. 

R. Suter. 
Maj. C. R. Suter, U. 

S. Engineers. 
E, N. Fuller, M. D . . 

Thos. A. Elliott 

Joseph T. Zealy 

H. W. Ravenel 

Thos. P. Ravenel 

Rev. Alex. Glennie.. 
Chas. Petty 


1849-51 
1863-'65 


Edward Fenderich. . . 

Dr. H. Sniyser 

W.W.Wilson 


1858-61 


Pittsburg 

Pittsburg 


1849-'51 
18.54-'57 


Pittsburg 

PittBburg 


1851 '54 


John Hastings and 

Wni. Martin. 
Wm. Martin and Dr. 

Ale.x. M. Speer. 
Dr. Alex. M. Speer .. 
Prof. Kudolidi Muller. 

Marcus H. Corson 

Feuelon Darlington.. 

John Hughes 

Dr. A.II(ger 

Rev. B. R. Smyser . . . 

D. Washburn 

Orriu T. Hobbs 

John Heyl Raser 

Dr. J. B. Peale and 
■ Charl.s Hahi . 

Dr. A. P. Meybert 

John L Travelli . . . . 
J. I. Travelli and G. 
H. Tracy. 

Gecrge H. Tracy 

P. Friel 


Charleston 

Charleston 

Charleston 

Charleston 


1851 

1855-57 

1857 




1858-61 


Pittsburg 




Plymouth Meeting - 


1851 






1856 


Pottsville 




1856 






18.58 






1859 


Pott-vdle 




1859 




h-disto Island 

Georgetown 

Gowdvsville 

Hilton Head 

Hilton Head 

Mount Pleasant . . . 

Orangeburg 

Orangeburg 

St. Johns 


18.'.5-'.57 




1859-01 
1868 


Reading 


1864 
1865 


Sewickleyville 

Sewkkleyville 

Sewickleyville 


18.57 
1849 
1849 
1849 '53 


Silver Spring 


H. G. Bruckart 

Rev. David J. Eyler.. 
Dr. F. Chorpenning.. 

George Mowry 

J. Russell Dutton 

Wm. A. Stokes 

Lorin Blodget 

W. 0. Blodgett 

M. Abbott 




1859 '60 


Waccaiiian 

Wilkinsville 

TENNESSEE. 


18.>4-'58 




1806-'67 




S. K. Jennings, M.D. 

P. B. Calhoun 

Dr. G H. Blaker .... 
Prof. W. M. Stewart . 

Thos. L. Sawyer 

B. F. Tayel 




StevetiHville 

St. Mary's 




Sugar (irove 

Sugar Orove 

Summit Hill 


1860-'61 




1868 


Chattanooga 

Clarksviile. 

Dixon Springs 

Dover 


1864 


Summit villa 

SusquehannaDepot 
Taren''.un 


Thos. Seabrook 

H. H. Atwater 

John H. Baird 


18.51 -'68 

1852 
1849 



METEOROLOGICAL STATIONS AND OBSERVERS. 83 

List of Smithsonian meteorological stations and observers — Contimied. 



Name of station. 


Name of observer. 


Years of 
observa- 
tions. 


Name of station. 


Name of observer. 


Years of 
observa- 
tions. 


Tk.nn.— Continued. 

Elizabefhton 

Fa.N ctteville 


Charles H. Lewis 

Dr. W. W. McNulty. 
Jos. M. Parker, M.D 
Dr. Robert T. Caiter 
S. S. &\V S. Doak.. 

O. \V. Morris 

Prof Geo. Cooke 

Prof. Geo. Cooke and 
L. Gnswold. 

T. L. Griswold 

Stephen C. Dodge ... 

J. R. Blfke 

Prof. A. P. Stewart.. 
Prof. B. C. Jilsou .... 
Edward F. Williams 
Rev. C. F. P. Bancroft 
U. S. Navy Yard 


1868 

1849-'5l 

1867 

1854-55 

1866-'68 

1851-52 

1853 

1854 

1855-'56 

1860 

1859-'60 

1851 -'54 

1854 

;866-'67 

1867-68 

1849, '53 

1851-'52 

1857-'58 

1857 

1859 

1860-'61 

1867-'68 

1849 

1849 

1854 

1867-'68 

1859-61 

1854 

1859-'61 

1856-'57 
1859-'60 

1860 

1852-'S6 

1854 

1857 

l858-'64 

1858-'61 

18fi7-'68 

1859 

1859-'60 

1860-'61 

1859 

18.59-'61 

1867-'68 

1866-'67 

1859 

1859-'60 

1859 

1867 

1859 

18.59-'61 

18fi7-'68 

1857-'58 

1 859-61 

1H59-'C0 

ie5t;-'57 

18(i2-'65 

1 867-' 68 

1849-'51 

18.52 

18.58-'60 

185!!-'66 

1866 

1859 

1858-'60 

1867 

1857 

1858-'G0 


Te.\as— Continued. 

NevF Wied 

New Wied 

Pope's Expedition - 
Port La Vaca 


T. C. Ervcndberg .. 

J. L. Forke 

James M. Reade 

James Gardiner 

Bruuo Shunian 

J. O. GatTney 

Ernest Kapp 

T. a. Turner 

Dr. B. L. D'Spainand 

J. M. Ewiug. 

William C"lman 

James Rayal 

Dr. Wm- H. Gant - . . 
Edivard Merrill, M. 

D 

B. H. Rucker 

Prof. C. W. Yellowby 


1849-'I54 

1855-.-W' 
185.5-'57 
18.i9 
18.51 '61 


Friendship 


Knoxville 


San Patricio 

Siaterdale 

Springfield 

Tarrant 


1859-'6() 
1859-60 
1859 
1859-'60 

1859 




Knoxville 


La Grange 


Turner's Point 

Union Hill 


1861 
1857 '61 




1867 '68 


Lookout Mountain 
Lookout Mountain 
Memphis 


Washington 

WebberviUe 


1856-'60 
1859--<il 
1859 '61 




* W. J. Tuck. M. D. 
Dr Daniel F. Wright 
Drs. W J. Tuck and 

R. W. Mitchell. 
R. W. Mitchell, M. D. 
Edward Goldsmith- . . 
Prof. Jas. Hamilton.. 

Wra. Rc.thruck 

James Hifrgius 

Fred. H. French 

J. W. Dodge & Son.. 

Prof. Hamilton 

Chas. R. Barney 

James B. Bean 

S. W. Houghton 

Frederick Kaler 

Dr. Sam'l K. Jennings 
J W Glenn 


Woodboro 

UTAH. 

Gt. Salt Lake City 
Gt. Salt Lake City - 

Gt. Salt Lake City - 

Harrisburg 

Heberville 


Dr. Jas. E. Moke 

H B Phelps 


1859-60 












1857 




H. E. Phelps and W. 

W. Phelps. 
W. W. Phelps 

James Lewis 

Harri.son Pearce 

Andrew L. Siber 

Harrison Pearce 

H. Pearce and G. A. 
Burgon. 

Thomas Bullock 

Andrew L. Siber 

Thomas Bullock 

Harrison Pearce 

B. F. Eaton, M. D... 
L. W. Bliss 


1858 




Nashville 


1859-'61 


Nashville 


1863-'fi8 
1867-'68 
1860-'61 


Nashville 






1866 


University Place, 
Franklin county. 

Walnut Grove 

■Winchester 


St. Georgtf 

St. George 

St. Mary's 


1862--64 
1865-'C6 

1865 
1864 


TEXAS. 




1 866-' 68 




Washington 

VERMONT. 


1860 












Dr. S. K. Jennings 
and J. Van Nostrand. 

Swante Palm 

J. Van Nostrand 

J. D Cunningham-.. 
Prof. Solomon S'as . . 


1866-'C7 






1856-'57 


Austin 




* D. Buckland 

Harmon Buckland . . . 

Charles C. Frost 

T. P. Pollard 

Prof. Zadok Thomp- 
son. 
McK Petty 


1852 '64 






lgG4_'fl7 


Bastrop 


Brat til boro' 

Brookfiild 

Burlington 

Burlington 

Calais 

Castlcton 


1849-51 
1863 
1849- '54 






Boundary Survey . 

Burkeville 

Cedar Grove Pl'n.. 
Chappell IliU 


John H. Clark 

Dr. N. P. West 

Hennell S'evens 

W. H. Gantt 

Dr. W. G. De Graf- 

feniied. 

P. S. Wade 

Jnhn M. Crockett 

Drs. C. H. Wilkinson, 

H. A.McComly,aud 

otiierg. 

Geo. G. Shumard 

J. M. Glasco 

John C. Brijrlitman .. 

Melvin H. Allis 

Dr. R. DeJcrnett...- 
jiihn C- Brichtman .. 
• Dr. A. M. Potter... 

Miss E. Baxter 

H. Yoakum 


18.57-' 64 


James K. Toby 

I). Underwood 

M E. Wing . . . . 


1861-64 
18.52-54 
1868 


Craftsbury 

Craftsbury 

Ea.st Bethel 

East Montpelier - .. 

Luuciiburg 

Middlebury 

Middlebury 

Montpelier 

Moutpelier 

North Craftsbury.. 

Norwich 

Randolph 

Randolph 

Rupert 

liutland 

Saxes' Mills 


Chas. A. J. Marsh . .. 

* James A. Paddock . 

Charles L. Paine 

B.J. Wheeler 

Hiram A. Cutting 

Prof. W. 11. Parker.. 
Harmon A. Sheldon . . 

D. P. Thompson 

M. M. Marsh 

Rev. Edward P. Wfld 

A. Jackmau 

R. M. M.iul.y 

(.^luirles L. I'uine 

Josei)h Parker 

* S. O. Miad 

J. C. Bak<r 


1653 '54 


Cross Roads 

Dallas 


1855-67 

1865 

1855 


Galveston 

Geological Sun-ey 
Gilmer 

(Joliad 


l859-'68 

1849-'52 

18G5-'68 

1849, '51 

1863 

1867-'68 

1 85.5-' .59 




184"l-'51 


Greenville 


1866-'68 
1857 '63 




1 862-64 


Houston 

lIuntHVille 


18.55 
1855-'.57 




Springlicld 

St. Johusbury 

St. Johnsbury 

West Fairleo 

Wilmintrtnn 

Woodstock 

Woodstock 

Woodstock 


Rev. J. W. Chickeriug 
J. K. Colby and J. P. 

Fairbanks. 
Franklin Fairbanks.. 

L. W. Bliss 

Rev. John B. Perry.. 

Charles .Marsh 

L.'ster A. Miller 

11. Doten and L. A. 

Miller. 


ie60-'63 




T. Gibbs 


1853-'55 


Kaufman 


James T. Rayal 

James Brown 

W. T. Epperson 

F. L. Yoakum 

M. Rutherford 

A. Forke and Otto 

Friedrich. 
Otto Friedrich 


1857-'61 




1858 


Larissa 

Long Point 

New Braunfcls 

New Braunfelg 


]866-'67 
1857-'58 
1867 
1863 



84 METEOROLOGICAL STATIONS AND OBSERVERS. 

List of Sniithsoninn mtteo^ological stations and observers — Continued. 



Name of station. 



Anua 

Alexandria. 



Ashland 



Berry ville 

Berry ville 

Biidgeton 

Bridgewater 

Buff.ilo 

Buffalo 

Buflfdio 

Capr Charles 

ChailestOD 

Chail ttesville 

Chailotteaville . . 
Chisiiansburg .. 

0"bham. 

Cf'b am Depot . . 
Crichton's .Store. 
Diau.Oiid Grove . 

Falmouth . 

Fredericksburg. . 
Fredericksburg. . 

Fork Union 

Giirysville 

Garysville 

Gosport 



Hartwood 

Heathtiville 

Hewlett's 

Hollidav's Cove . 

Johnsiintown 

Lee^burg 

Leesburg , 

Lexington 

Li'xiiigton 

Lloyd 

Li>ugwood 

Lynchburg 

Lynchburg 

Mailison 

Mfiid >w Dale ... 

Middlesex 

Moutcalm 

Montrose 

Moiitro^s 

Mossy Creek 

Mount Solon 



Mustapha 

Kiw England . 
Norfolk 



Portsmouth 

Porisinoutli . ... 
Pi.whatan Hill . 
Prince Edward . 

Richmond 

Riclimoud 

Richmond 

E se Hill 

Roiigemont 

Ruthven 

Salem 

Smi lifield .... . 

Snowville 

.Staunton 

Staunton 

Striiding Spring 

Surry 

The Plains 

■Wincuester . 



"Wythcville 

Wyiheville . 
■Wythoville. 



Name of observer. 



Rev. C. B. McKee 
Benj. Hallowell.... 

Samuel Couch 



Miss E. KowBslar 

Dr. K. Kownslar 

C. R. Moore 

.h d. Hotchkiss 

Prof. G. R. Rossiter.. 

Samuel Couch 

Wm. R. Boyers 

* J>a.. G. Potts 

Jas. E. Kendall 

Chas. J. Meriwether . 

J Rails Abell 

Wm. C. Ha^an 

Chas. J. IVIeii wether. . 
Geo. C. Dickinson . . . 

R. F. Astr.'p 

R. F. Astrop 

Abraham Van Doren. 

Chas. H. Roby 

B. R. Wolllord 

Silas B. Jones 

T. S. Beckwith.M. D. 

Julian C. Iluttin 

United States Navy 

Yard. 
Abraham Van Doven 

J. C. Wills 

J. F. Auauis 

B. D. Sanders 

C. R. Moore 

N F. 1). Browne 

Samuel X. Jackson .. 

VV in. K Park 

W. H. Ruffner 

Geo. W. I pshaw 

Thos. J. Wickline ... 

A. Nettleton 

Chas. J. IMeriwether . 
Ur. A. M. Giinuan... 

James Siaven 

L. C. Breckenstein .. 
(.'ha». J. Meriwether . 

H. H. Faunlleroy 

Edwd. E. S pence 

Jed. Hotchkiss 

Jus. T. Clarke 



Years of 

ob erva- 

tions. 



James Fraser 

James Fra-ser 

Un ted States Naval 
Hospital. 

N. B. Webster 

Naval Hospital 

Edward T. Tayloe. . 
Prof Frs. J. Nuttaner 

David Turuer 

Chas. J. Meriwether 

John Appl -yard 

Geo. W. Upshaw... 
Geo. C. Dickinson . . 

Julian C. Ruffin 

J. Carson Wells 

John R. Purdie 

J. W. Staluaker 

J. B luibo ien 

J. C. Covell 

Jed. Hotchkiss 

Benj. W. Jones 

Joh . Pickett 

J. W. Marvin 



W. D. Roedel 

Howard Shriver 

Rev. Jas. A. Brown. 



1858-'59 

184a 

1853-'58 

18i4 

1856-'.')7 

1855-'67 

1858 

1£C8 

1852, '54 

18.") --'.54 

18.55, '58 

18r)8-'r)9 

1867_'68 

l&j(i-'57 

184y-'5l 

18o9-'61 

l&jl 

1852 

1859-'61 

1853-'61 

1849-51 

]8d9-'6l 

1859-61 

1849 

18."9-'6l 

I&5fi 

1P59 

1849 

1858 
1843 
1867 
1858 
1868 
1840 
18.54 
■186L 
1867-'68 
1859 
1^57 
1854 
1866-'68 
18.3 1 -52 
1857-59 
1852 
1854 
1856-'57 
18."".8-'u9 
18.')t)-'58 
185.V.56 
1867-'C8 
18.)7-'08 
1659-'6l 
1868 

1852-'60 

18U0-'6I 

1849-68 

1849-52 

184:)-54 

1639-'61 

1860 

18,57-'58 

1857-'58 

18.56-'58 

1857-58 

I8."i6-'6I 

!h67-'68 

1849 

1868 

18.59 

18li7-'68 

18.59-60 

185i-'6l 

]85it-'6l 

1861 

186.5-'66 

1868 



Name of station. 



Name of observer. 



WASHINGTON TER- 
UlTORY. 

Fort Colville 

Fort Steiiacoom. .. 
Fort Vancouver . . 

Neeah Baj' 

Neeah Bay 

Port Townsend 

WEST VIRGINIA. 

Ashland 

Burning .Springs. . 

Capon Bridge 

Cruckwhip 

G I aft on 

Hampshire county 
Harpei's Ferry... 

Huntersville 

Kanawha 

Kanawha 

Kanawha Salines. 

Lewi^burg 

Lewi-burg 

Lewiaburg 

Lewisburg 

New Creek Station 

Point Pleasant 

Romney 

Romney 

Si.-tersville 

Warden b ville 

Wellsburg 

Weston 

West Union 

Wheeling 

Wirt 

WISCONSIN. 

Appleton 

Applet on 

Appleti>n 

Appleton 

Ashland 

Aztalun 

Baraboo 

Baraboo 

Bny City 

Bayfield 

Bayfield 

Beilefontaine 

Beloit 

Beloit 

Beloit 

Beloit 

B.leit 

B ack River Falls. 

Brighton 

Burlington 

Burlington 

Burlington 

Caldwell Prairie.. 
Cascade Valley... 

Cereseo 

Dartford 

D. lafield 

Delatield 

Delavan 

Edgerton 

Emerald Grove 

Embarras 

Falls of St. Croix. 
FrtUsof .St. Croix. 
Gales villo 



Capt. Hague 

David Walker, M. D 

Dr Barnes 

James G. Swan 

Alexander Sampson. 
S. S. Bulkley 

Charles L. Roffo 

Robert 11. Bliven... 
J. J. Offutt, M. D... 

D. H. E.lis 

D. W. H. Sharp 

S. J. .Stumps 

r>. J. Bdi 

Wm. Skeen 

David L. Huffner 

James E. Kendall... 

W. (!. Reynolds 

Dr. Wm. N. Patton. 
Dr. Thos. Patton ... 
Thos. Patton and J. 

W. St.Llmuker. 
J. W. Stalmaker ... 

Hendricks Clark 

W. R. Boyers 

Mari-hall McDonald. 
W. H. McDowell ... 
Enoch D. Johnson.. 
D. H. Ellis 

B. D. Sanders 

Benjamin Owen 

W C Quiiicy 

* Geo. P. Lockwood 
Josiah W. Hoff 



Prof. R. Z. Mason.. 

John Hicks 

Dr. M. J. E. Hurlburt 

Prnl. J C. Foyo 

Edwin Eilis 

Jiimos C, Brayton... 

Dr. B. F. Mills 

M. C. Waite 

Edwin Ellis 

Harve. I. Nourse... 

Andrew Tate 

Thomas Gay 

Prof. S. P. Lathrop. 
J. McQuigg and W. 
Porter 

Prof. Wm. Porter 

Prof. Henrys. Kelsey 

Henry D. Porter 

Emil Hauser 

George M^ithews.... 

D. Matthews 

D. ai.d G. ftlatthews.. 
George Mathews . 

S. Armstrong 

S-imuel R. .Seibert 
Miss M. E. Baker . 
M. H. Towers ... 
Prof. A. W. Clark 
Chas. W. Kelly... 

Lcvens Eddy 

Henry J. Shintz .. 
Orrin uinsniore... 
J. Everett Bead .. 

M T. W. Chandler.. 
Wm. M. Blandiug 
Wm. Gale 



METEOROLOGICAL STATIONS AND OBSERVERS. 



85 



List of Smithsonian meteorological stations and observers — Continued. 



KuiiR' of htiuion. 



Wis. — Coutinued. 



Geneva 

Grei'U Bay... 
Gricn Bay . .. 
Green Lake.. 

Ilart;'or(l 

HiiigUum . 

Hudson 

Jaut-svillo 

Jam sville 

Janesviile 

Jancsville 

Ec-nobha 



Kilbnurn City 
Lake .Mills ... 

LfbanoQ 

Lind 

Jlaiiison 

lladiaou 

Madison 

Maili.-%on 



M.idisou . 
Ma(li>ou . 



JIaiiitowoc. 
Ulcnaslia . .. 
Milwaukee . 



Milwaukee 

Slilwiiulcee 

Milwaukee 

Mosiuee 

Miunt Morris 

New HoUtein 

New LLiboa 



Name of observer. 



Wra. H. Whiting . . 
C '1 D. Underwood 
Frederick Deckuer. 
C. F. Poiiieroy 
Judge Hopewell Cox 
Jobn De Lyser . 
G. F. I,iviIlg^ton 
J. F. W..Iard .. 
Geo. J. Kellofrg 
Dr. Clark G. I'easo 
Daiiiel Struiik 
Rev. Jobn Giidley 

James H. Bell . 
Isaac Atwood - 
J.C. Hiks .. 
R. H. .Struthers 
Prof. S. H. Carpenter 
S. H. Cai-penter aud 
J. W. Sterling. 

A. SchucM. D 

Prof. J. W. Sterling 



J. Jennings 

Prof. J. W. Sterling 
and S. P Clarke. 

Prof. J. W. Sterling 
and W. Fellows. 

Jacob Liips 

Col. D. Underwood.. 

I. A. Lapbam 



Carl Winkler, M. D . 

F. C. Pomeroy 

Prof. E. P. Larkin.. 

J. S. Pasbley 

Wm. F. Ilorsford ... 
Ferdinand Hacbez. . 
•lobu L. Dunegan... 



Years of 

observa- 

tioiiu 



1863-'68 

1859 

l>?64-'n5 

1851-52 

18:>9-'62 

18ti7-'68 

18.)4 

18.5:U'.58 

18.39 

18(50-'C1 

18ti2 

185 1 -'52 

18.57--6:5 

]8G:-fJ2 

ie59-'62 

18G4 

18.-^.8 

18.j3 

1854 

185fi-'.58 

185(;-'59 

18C3-'G5 

18fi0 

1860 

1861 -'62 



1857- 

1857- 

1849- 

18.54 

1857- 

18.54- 

185.5- 

1859- 

1859 

1858 

1865 

18C7- 



Naine of station. 



Wis.— Continued. 

New London 

Norway 

Odanah 

OtSPKO 

Pardee ville 

Plaiteville 

Platteville 

Plymou b 

Presi ott 

Racine 

Racine 

R;icine 

Ripon , 

Rocky Run 

Rural 

Southport 

Summit 

Superior 

Superior 

Superior 

Superior 

Waterford 

Watertown 

Waukesha 

Waukesha 

Waupacca 

Waupacca 

Waupaca 

Wausau 

Weyauwega 

Weyauwega 

Weyauwega 

Weyauwega 

Whittlesey 



Name of observer. 



J. Everett Breed 
John E. Himoe . 
Eduin Ellis, M. D. 

L. II. Doyle 

S. Armstrong 

Dr. J. L. Pickard. 

A. K. Johnson 

G. Moeller 

Spencer L. Hillier 
Rev. Rnswell Park 

W. J. Durham 

Hilaud W. Phelps 
Pn.f. W. 11. Ward 

W. VV. Curtis 

R H. Strutbera... 
Rev. John Gridley 
Edward S. Spencer 
Win. H Newton and 

L. WashinRtnn. 
L. and R. Wa>hington, 

and C Loring, jr. 

Wm. Mann 

G. R. Stuntz and E. 

H. bly. 

S. Armstrong 

William Ayres 

Prof. S. A. Bean ... 

Prof. S. A. Bean and 

L. C. Sly-, M. D. 
J. Everett Brted 

H. C. Mead 

C. D. Webster .. 
W. A. Gordon, M, 
Melzar Parker. 
William Woods 
Jobn C. Hicks 
■* Dr. Jas. M.ittbews 
Edwin Ellis, M. D. . 



Years of 

obsirva- 

tious. 



I857--.58 

18.55-'.57 

1863-66 

1859-'60 

1859-60 

1851 -'59 

1859-'eO 

186.5-68 

1857 

18,56 

1856-'58 

1860-61 

1865-'66 

18.'i9-'63 

1860-'61 

1849 

1851-54 

1855 

1896 

18.59-63 
1859-'63 

1863 
1852 
18.55- '56 
1858-'59 
1857 

1856, '65 

18t;3-'68 

1867 

18.59-'60 

1860-'61 

18'U-'64 

1866 

1866 

1859-'60 



86 



LIST OF METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVERS. 



Al])liabetical list of meteorological observers of the Smithsonian Institution^ 
up to the end of the year 1868. 



Name. 



Abbe, Cleveland 

Abbott. M 

Abell, B.F 

Abeil, J. Ralls ..'......... 

Abert, Major J. W 

Aberc, Thayer 

Acadia College 

Adams, E. L 

Adams, Prof. E. W 

Adams, I R 

Adams, J F 

Adams, J. F .- 

Adams, Jno. W 

Adams, W. H 

Adams, W P 

Agnew, J. C 

Agricultural College 

Alba, E. M 

Aicott, W. P 

Aldrich, T. H 

Aldrich, Verry 

Alexander, Arcb 

Alexander, Captain R. E.. 

Alexander, J. M 

Alison, H. L 

Allen, Edwin 

Allen, Piof. E. A. H 

Allen, Frederick 

Allen, George D 

Allen, Prof. G. N 

Allen, James, jr 

Allen, J. P 

Allen, W. D 

Allin, Lucius C 

Alhs, MelvinH 

Allison, Jesse 

Allison, Thomas A 

Alsop, Samuel 

A.ter, Dr. U 

Alvord, D S 

Ammen, J 

Anderson, C. F 

Anderson, H. H 

Anderson, Dr. James 

Anderson, W. H 

Andrews, G. P 

Andrews, Prof. J. W 

Andrews, Seth L 

Audru.s, W. C 

Augeil, B. D 

Anihouioz, B. F 

Anthony, Newton 

Appieyard, John 

Ardeii, Thos. B 

Armstrong, M. K - 

Armstrong, S 

Arnold, E G 

Aiuold, James B 

Arnold, Mrs. J. T 

Astion. Observatory, Wil- 
liams College 



State. 



Michigan. 

Pennsylvania. 

Ohio. 

Virginia. 

South Carolina. 

Florida. 

Nova Scotia. 

Massachusetts. 

North Carolina. 

New York. 

Virginia. 

Georgia.' 

Maine. 

Illinois. 

New York. 

Missouri. 

Kansas. 

New York. 

Massachusetts. 

Pennsylvania. 

Illinois. 

New Jersey. 

Bermuda. 

New York. 

Alabama. 

New Jersey. 

New York. 

Ohio. 

Florida. 

Ohio. 

Michigan. 

fvebiaska. 

New York. 

Massachusetts. 

Texas. 

Illinois. 

North Carolina.. 

Pennsylvania. 

Pennsylvania. 

Ohio. 

Ohio. 

Minnesota. 

Indiana. 

Georgia. 

Indiana. 

Michigan. 

Ohio. 

Michigan. 

Florida. 

Indiana. 

Louisiana. 

Ohio. _ 

Virginia. 

New York. 

Dakota Ter. 

Wisconsin. 

Rhode Island. 

Bermudas. 

Georgia. 

Massachusetts. 



Name. 



Astrop, R. F 

Atkins, Rev. L. S 

Atkinson, George A 

Atkinson, William A 

Atwater, H. H 

Atw< >od, Isaac 

Aubier, Rev J. M 

Austin, W. W 

Avery, Charles A 

Ayres. W 

Ayres, Dr. W. O 

*Babcock, A. J 

Babcoik, Dr. B. F 

Babcock, E 

Babcock, E 

Bachelder, F. L 

Bachelder, J 

Bacon, D. G 

Bacon, E. E 

Bacon, Frank M 

Bacon, William 

Baer, Miss H. M 

Baer, Prof W 

Bailey, James B 

Bailey. S. S 

Bailey, Thomas 

Baird, John H 

Baird, Prof. S. F 

Baker, Frank 

Baker, J C 

Baker, Miss M. E 

Baker, N. T 

Baker, William E 

Baldwin, Dr A. S 

Baldwin, Elmer 

Ball, Miss Ida E 

Ball, Dr. J. E 

Ball, James H 

Ballon, N. E 

Bambach, Dr. G. 

Bancroft, Rev. C. F. P... 
Bandelier, AdolphusF., jr. 

Bannister, H. M 

Barbage, Joshua C 

Barber, Prof. G. M 

Baiker, Thomas M 

Barlow, Dennis 

Barnard, Alonzo 

Barnard, A. D 

Barnes, C 

Barnes, Dr 

Barney, Charles R 

Barratt, Rev J. P 

Barrett, James 

Barrows, A. 

Bai rows, G B 

Barrows, N 

Barrows, Storrs 

Bartlett, E. B 

Bartlett, Isaac 

Bartlett, Joshua 



State. 



Virginia. 

Ohio. 

Oregon. 

Iowa. 

Pennsylvania. 

Wihconsin. 

New York. 

Indiana. 

New York. 

Wisconsin. 

California. 

Illinois. 

Minnesota. 

Illinois. 

Iowa. 

Florida. 

Massachusetts. 

Kansas. 

Illinois. 

Michigan. 

Massachusetts. 

Mai y land. 

Maryland. 

Florida. 

Missouri. 

Massachusetts. 

Pennsylvania. 

Pennsylvania. 

Illinois. 

Vt. & Canada. 

Wisconsin. 

Illinois. 

Pennsylvania. 

Florida. 

Illinois. 

Iowa. 

Iowa. 

New York. 

Illinois. 

Ohio. 

Tennessee. 

Illinois 

Alaska Ter. 

Kentucky. 

Ohio. 

Alabama. 

Arkansas. 

Minnesota. 

Oregon. 

Indiana. 

Washington Ter 

Tennessee. 

South Carolina. 

Pennsylvania. 

Ohio. 

Maine. 

Massachusetts. 

New York. 

New York. 

Indiana. 

Maine. 



'Deceased. 



LIST OF METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVERS. 87 

Alphahetical list of mcicoroloyical observers, &c. — Continued. 




* Barton, Dr. E. H t.. 

Bassctt. G. R 

B.itchelder, F. L 

Bitxier, Miss E 

Bt-Ml, Dexipr 

Bial, W W 

Bciiiiiaii, ('Krlisle D 

Bt'iiii, Dr James B 

Bi-au, Prot. 8. A 

Beans, Thoinas J 

Bea.dsley, L. A 

B.-atiy, O 

Beanchaiiip. W. M 

Bi'ckwitli, E. VV 

Bwkwith, Dr. T. F 

Beckwiili. W 

Buecher, Michael 

Behmer, Frederick 

Belcher, W. 

Belfield II. H 

Bell, Miss E. M. A 

Bell. Jacob E 

Bell, James H 

Bell, J. J 

Bell, Louis 

Bell. L. J 

Bill, Lewis J 

Bell, iiou. S. 5f 

Beuafjh, George 

Beuuer, J. F 

Beni.ett, Henry 

Bennett, Sarah E 

Benton, F. A . 

Bereudt, G 

Berjier, M. L 

Berky, W. H 

Berihoud, E. L , 

Betts, Charles 

Bickl'ord, Calvin 

Bidwell, Dr. E. C 

Binkerd, J S 

Biriiey, Jairies G 

Bixl.y. A. II 

Bi.\by, J. H 

Blackii,aii, W.J. li 

Black well, Thomas 

Blackvvell, W. II 

Blake, II 

Blake, J R 

*Blaker, Dr. G. H 

Blakeslee, Rev. S. V 

Blaiichard. Oiestes A . 

Blandiiig^, William M . 

Blewitt, Kev. W 

Bliss, Geor<;e , 

Bli.ss, L W 

Blivcn, Hubert H 

Blod^rett, Dr. A. C 

Blodjiet, Lorin 

Blodpt, W. O 

Bloodgood, S. Dc Witt 



S. Car. and La. 

Illinois. 

Florida. 

T.'xas. 

Iowa. 

Iowa. 

Iov\ a. 

Fla. and Tenn. 

Wisconsin. 

New Jers<^y. 

New York. 

Kentncky. 

New York. 

Mississippi. 

Vlr<jiuia. 

Kansas. 

Ohio. 

Missouri. 

California. 

Iowa. 

Illinois 

Maryland. 

Wisconsin, 

Maine. 

New Hampshire. 

Virginia. 

Maryland. 

New Hampshire. 

Alabama. 

Ohio. 

Ohio. 

Ohio. 

Ohit». 

Mexico. 

Massachusetts. 

Kansas. 

Ky Kas.,«S:,Col. 

Michigan. 

Maine. 

Iowa and Ohio. 

Ohio. 

Michigan. 

N.H.,Ky ,&Ind, 

Massachusetts. 

Kansas. 

Canada. 

Arkansa.s. 

liuliana. 

Tennessee. 

Term, and Midi. 

Calilornia. 

Illinois. 

Wisconsin. 

(ieorgia. 

Vermont. 

Vermont. 

West Viiginia. 

Pennsylvania. 

Pennsylvania. 

Penn.sylvania, 

New York. 



BIy.E.H 

Board of Trade 

Boardman, (i. A 

Boerner, C. G 

Boettner, Gustave A 

Bogert, W. S 

Bond, Isaac 

*Bond. W. C 

Bosworth Prof. R. S 

Boucher. W. K 

Bowen, Miss Anna M. J. 

Boweu, J. S 

Bowen, Wm. F 

Bowles, Dr. S. B 

Bowlsby, G. W 

Bowman, E. H 

Bowman, John 

Boyd, S. T , 

Boyers, VV. R 

Boyle, C.R 

Biackett, G. E 

Bray ton, Jas. C 

Brayton, Milton 

Breckenstein, L. C 

Bi eed, .J. Everett 

Breed, M. A 

Biendel, Dr. E 

Brendel, Dr. F 

Brewer, Rev. Fisk P 

Brewer, F. A 

Brewster, Alfred 

Brewster, Win., M. D. .. . 
Brickenstein, Rev, II. II. . 

Brinkerhotf, G. M 

liriggs, E. L 

Briglitman, J. C 

Brooks, Hev.Jabez 

Brooks, Hon. J 

Bnioks, Wm 

Brookes, Samuel 

Brown, Branch 

Brown, B. G 

Brown, E. E 

Brown, G. W 

Brown, II. H 

Brown, James 

ISrown, Rev. , J. J 

Brown, .J. W 

Brown, N. W 

Brown, Prof. P. P 

Brown. P. P 

* Brown, Samuel 

Brown, W. 15. G 

Browne, .1. H 

Browne N. Fs D 

Brown, O. H 

B.uckait, H.G 

Brugge r, S 

Bryant, A. F 

Biyant, C. M 

Bu<:k, Rulus 



Wisconsin. 
Nova Scotia. 
Florida. 
Indiana. 
Illinois. 
Florida. 
JIarylaud. 
Massachusetts. 
Ohio. 
Califor.nia. 
Kansa-5. 
Kansas. 
Ohio. 
Missouri. 
Michigan. 
Illinois. 
New York. 
Ohio. 

Pennsylvania. 
Iowa. 
Maine. 
Wisconsin. 
Sombrero Isl'd. 
Virginia. 
N. Y. and Wis. 
Illinois. 
Illinois. 
Illinois, 

North Carolina, 
Massachus( tts. 
New Hanipshire. 
Pennsylvania, 
Illinois, 
Illinois. 
Iowa. 
Texas. 
Minnesota. 
Massachusetts. 
New Jersey. 
Illinois 

New Hampshire. 
New Hampshire 
Maine. 
Kansas. 
Kansas. 
Texas. 
New York. 
Illinois. 
Massachusetts. 
Illinois. 
Ind. Ter. 
Pennsylvania. 
New Hampshire 
Texas. 
Virginia. 
Kansas. 
IN'nnsylvanJa. 
Pennsylvania. 
Iowa. 
Illinois. 
Maine, 



*'Dc(ieaae(t. 



88 LIST OF METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVERS. 

List of meteorological observers, &c. — Continued. 



Name. 



*Riu-klaiid. D 

Biukner, Rev. H, F 

biilkeioy, S. S 

Bullarfl, Ransom 

Bulier. ?L A. 

Bullock. J. T 

Bullock, Thomas 

Bnrg'ou. G. A 

Biiiras, O 

■Bunell, J.I 

Bun is, Dr. Robert 

Burioug^lis, R 

Burt, Heury M 

Burton. John 

Bush, Rev. Alva 

Bus-ing, D. S 

Bussiiij)', J. W 

Buttei field, W.W 

Biittei field, Mrs 

Byers, Dr. Robert 

Byers, S.M 

Byers, W illiam N , 

Byram, E.N 

Byrne, Arthur M , 

Calder, J.G 

Caldwell, John H 

Caldwell, John T 

Caldwell, R. H 

Calhoun, P.B 

Calloway, J. W 

Camp, Bcuiamin F 

Camp, E.P 

Campbell, J 

Campbell, Dr. W. M 

Caulield. Dr. C. A 

Cautril, J. E 

Canudas, Ant 

Capen, E 

Carey, Daniel 

Carl!, Albert G 

*Carothers. A. G 

Carpenter, B 

Carpenter, Prof. S. H 

Carpenter, S. O 

Carpenter, T 

Carier, J. H 

Carter, Kev. J. P 

Carier, Prof. P 

Carter, Dr. Robert T 

Carter, Thomas 

Carver, Rev. E. W 

Carver, Dr. R. T 

Case, Dr. CD 

Case, Jarvis 

Caswell, Prof. A 

Caswell, Rev. R. C 

Cavileer, Chas 

Chad bourne, Prof. P. A. . 

Chamberlain, J 

Chandler, Charles Q 

Chandler, Dr. George 

Chandler, M. T.W 



State. 



Vermont. 

Arkansas. 

Wash. ler. 

Michigan. 

Maine. 

Indiana. 

rtah. 

Utah. 

Ohio. 

Pennsylvania. 

Aikansas. 

Indiana. 

Nebraska. 

Kelaware. 

Iowa. 

New York. 

New York. 

Indiana. 

Indiana. 

Missouri. 

Minnesota. 

Nebraska. 

New York. 

Illinois. 

Beimudas. 

Massachusetts. 

Missouri. 

Kentucky. 

'lennessee. 

North Carolina. 

Georgia. 

Kansas. 

M issouri. 

Michioan. 

California. 

Illinois. 

Guatemala. 

Illinois. 

Illinois. 

New York. 

Bahamas. 

Iowa. 

Wisconsin. 

New York. 

South Carolina. 

Loui.siaua. 

xMarylaud. 

Ohio. 

Tennessee. 

North Carolina. 

Minnesota. 

Tennessee. 

Kentucky. 

Connecticut. 

Rhode Island. 

Newfoundland. 

Minnesota. 

Mass. & Conn. 

Iowa. 

Missouri, 

Massachusetts. 

Wisconsin. 



Name. 



Chapman, J. P 

Chapman, N. A 

Chappelsmith, J 

Chase, Arthur 

Chase, Dr. Charles 

Chase. Cornelius 

Chase, C. Thornton 

Chase, Milton 

Chase, T 

Cheney, W 

Chickering, J. W 

Chickering, Rev. J. W. 

Child, Dr. A. L 

Child, Miss J. E 

Childs, E. W 

Chorpenning, Dr. F ... 

Christian, John 

Clark, Prof A. G 

Clark, Prof. A. W 

Clark, Dr. D 

Clark, Sereno 

( lark, Hendricks 

Clark, Thomas 

Claik, W.P 

Clarke, John 

Clarke,J.T 

Clarke, Lawrence, jr 

Clarke, Mrs. Lawrence. .. 

Claikson, Rev. D 

Cleland,Kev.T. II 

Clement, Jiihn,jr 

Clough, J. B 

Cock burn, S 

Cobb.M.H ! 

Cobb,M.H 

Cobbs,Rev. R.A 

Cobleigh,Prof. N.E 

Coffin, Prof. J. H 

Coffin, Matthew 

Coffin, helden J 

Coffin, Prof. William 

Cofrau.L. R 

Colburn.Ed 

Colby, Alfred 

Colby, E.P 

Colby, J. K 

Cole, Barker 

Cole,E.C 

Coleman, J. A 

Collier, All red 

Collier, D. C 

Collier, Prof. George H. .. 

Collin, Prof. Alduzo 

Collins, Rev. Sainuel 

Collins, Colonel W.O.... 

Colman, William 

Condngs, G. P 

Comly, John 

Conaut, Marshall 

Conkling, Thomas J 

Connolly, H 

Cook.E.B 



State. 



Nevsr York. 

Ohio. 

Indiana. 

New Hampshire. 

New Hampshire. 

New York. 

New York. 

Michigan. 

Ohio. 

Minnesota. 

New York. 

Vermont. 

Nebraska. 

Nebraska. 

Ohio. 

Pennsylvania. 

Missouri. 

Penn.sylvania. 

Maryl'd &, Wis. 

Michigan. 

New York. 

West Virginia. 

Minnesota. 

Ohio. 

Ohio. 

Virginia. 

Hud. Bay Ter. 

Hufl. Bay Ter. 

Kansas. 

Kent'y & Miss. 

New Jersey. 

Minnesota. 

Honduras. 

Pennsylvania. 

Connecticut. 

Alabama. 

Illinois. 

Pennsylvania. 

Michigan. 

Penn.sylvauia. 

Illinois. 

Maryland. 

Ohio. 

New Hampshire. 

New Hampshire. 

Vermont. 

New Jersey. 

New Jersey. 

Alabama. 

Massachusetts. 

Colorado. 

Illinois. 

Iowa. 

Indiana. 

Idaho. 

Texas. 

Missouri, 

Pennsylvania. 

Massachusetts. 

Missouri. 

Hud. Bay Ter. 

New York. 



* Deceased. 



LIST OF METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVERS. 89 

List of meteorological observers, itc. — Contmued^ 



Name. 



Cook, Ephr. R 

Cook.F. \y 

Cook, Prof. George H 

Cook, Tlioinas E., &, t-ous . 

Vovk,\V. II 

C'lMike, Pi of. George 

Cooke, R. L 

Cooper Ft:'rnale Seminary. . 
Cooper, Dr. George F. ... 

Coorlies, J.F 

*Corey,Heury M 

Cornette, Rev. A 

Cornish, Rev. J. H 

Cor.>e, John M 

Corson, Rev. Marcus H... 

Cotting, J. M 

Cotton,Ur. D. B 

Coucli,E. D 

Couch, Samuel 

Coues, Dr. E 

CoultT.B. F 

Covell, J. C 

Coventry, W. B 

Covert, A. 1} 

Cowing, Pliihi 

Cox, Jutlge Hopewell 

Craigie, Dr. W 

Crautlail, William H 

Craudou, F 

Crane, George W 

Crane, Heber 

Craven, Rev. B\ 

Craven, Thomas J 

Crawford, R 

Crawtord, VV. A 

Crawfoid,T. H 

Cribhs, J R 

Crisp, Jihu F 

Crisson,J. C 

Crocker, Allen 

Crockett, John M 

Crolt, diaries 

Crookhain, George L 

C roshy ,J. B 

Crozier, Dr. E. S 

Crowther, Benjamin 

Cunnning, S. J - 

Cunning: ham, Miss Ardelia- 

Ciinningliam, G. A - 

Cuinungiiam, .J. D 

Currier, Alired O 

Curtis, W. W 

Culler, Pnjf. E 

Cutting, Ephr 

Cuitni'j, Hiram A 

Dall,W. H 

Dalrymple, A. P 

Daltim, (). D 

Dana, William D 

Darliy, Prof. .John 

Darling, L. A 



State. 



New Jersey. 
Pennsylvania. 
New Jersey. 
Pennsylvania. 
Penns^'lvauia. 
Tennessee. 
New Jersey. 
Oiuo. 
Georgia. 
Pennsylvania. 
Florida. 
Alabama. 
South Carokua. 
Iowa. 

Pennsylvania. 
Gei rgia. 
Ohio. 

New Jersey. 
Virginia. 
Arizona. 
Arkansas. 
Virginia. 
Indiana. 
New York. 
New York. 
Wisconsin. 
Canada West. 
Rhode Island. 
Illinois. 
Ohio. 
Michigan. 
North Carolina. 
Delaware. 
I )elaware. 
Delaware. 
Oiegon. 
Mississippi. 
Indiana. 
Bahamas. 
Kansas. 
Tixas. 
California. 
Ohio. 
Michigan, 
Iiiiliaiia. 
< Mexico. 
Alabama. 
Ohio. 

Massachusetts. 
'I'exas. 
Michigan. 
Wisconsin. 
Connecticut. 
California. 
Vermont. 
Alaska Territ'3', 
Maryland. 
Missouri. 
Maine, 

Georgia & Ala. 
Massachusetts. 



Name. 



Darlington. F 

Dascoiiib, Professor 

Davidson, H. M 

Davidson, W 

Davies, James F 

Davis, Charles 

*Davis, Rev. Dr. Emer- 
son 

Davis, George L. C 

Davis, R. J 

Davis, W. E 

Dawson, John L 

Dawson, W 

Day, Theodore 

Day, William 

Dayton, E. A 

Dayton, Lewis M 

Dayton, James H 

Deacon, John C 

Dean, W. H 

Dearing, D. S 

Decknei, Frederick, &Son. 

Deem, D 

Deeriiig, D. S 

De Grafi'enreid, Dr. W. G. 

De J> riiett, Dr. R 

De Lyser, J 

*Delaney, E. M. J 

*Delauey, John, jr 

Denig, E. T 

Dt-nison, H. L 

*Deuning, W. H 

Dennis, W. C 

Desellen, J. N 

* Dewey, Prof. C 

Dewhurst, Rev.E 

De W>l, N 

D'Spain, Dr. B. L 

Dickinson, CJeorge C 

Dickinson, James P 

Dickson, Walter 

Dill, John B 

Dille, Israel 

Dinsmore, H. L 

Diusmore, O 

Doak, S. S 

Doak, W. S 

Dodd, Prof. CM 

Dodder, E. L 

Dodge, J. W.,&Son.... 

Dodge, Stephen C 

Dodsoii, B. D 

Dole, J. G 

Dorat, Dr Charles 

Dorsey, S. S 

Dorwciler, P 

Doteii, H 

Doughiy, William H 

Doyle, .'Joseph B 

Doy.e, L 11 

Draper, Dr. Joseph 



State. 



Pennsylvania. 

Ohio. 

Ohio. 

Ohio. 

Arkansas. 

Pennsylvania. 

Massachusetts. 

Mississippi. 

Virginia. 

Ohio. 

South Carolina. 

Indiana. 

Pennsylvania. 

New ^'ork. 

New York. 

Ohio. 

Indiana 

New Jersey. 

Pennsylvania. 

Pennsylvania. 

Georgia & Wis. 

Indiana. 

Iowa & Penn'a. 

Texas. 

Texas. 

Wisconsin. 

Newfoundland. 

Newfoundland. 

Nebraska. 

Kansas. 

New York. 

Florida. 

Ohio. 

New York. 

Me,Mass.,&Ct. 

M.ssouri. < 

Texas. 

Virginia. 

Iowa. 

Hud. Bay Ter. 

New York. 

Ohio. 

New York. 

Wisconsin. 

Tennessee. 

Tennessee. 

Indiana. 

Penn.sylvania. 

'JViinessee. 

Tennessee. 

Missouri. 

Ohio. 

San Salvador. 

Ohio. 

Iowa. 

ViTinont. 

(Jeorgia. 

Ohio. 

Wisconsin, 

Massachusetts. 



►Deceased. 



90 



LIST OF METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVERS. 
List of meteorological ohservers, &c. — Contiuued. 



Name. 




Drew, Dr F. P 

DruDimuiicl, Rev. J. H... 

Drysdale, Robert H 

Dubois, H. G. , jr 

Dudley, T 

Duffied, Dr. E 

Duffield, Kev. Dr. George. 

Diiffield, Dr. H 

Duncan, Rev. Alexander. 

DuDgan, Jdlin L 

Dunkum, Mrs. E. S 

Duiikiun, W. L 

Duuwoodv, W, P 

Durham, VV J 

Dutton, J. Russell 

Eachtis, Homer 

Earle, E. S 

Earle, J. VV 

Earle, Silas 

Easter, Prof. J. D 

Eaton, Ur. B. F 

Ebert, S 

Eddy, Levens 

Edgerly, L. G 

Edwards, Dainel 

Edwards & Mil lea' 

Edwards, Joseph 

Edwards, Rev. Dr.Tryon. 

Eggert, John 

Eldridge, l.'ev. W. V.... 

EUetsdu, Job 

Ellis, D. H 

Ellis, D. H 

Ellis, J. M 

Ellis, Dr. Edwin 

Ellis, Dr. W. T 

Elliott, Jonathan 

Elliott, Prof. J. Boyd 

Elliott, J. C 

Elliott, T. A 

Ellsworth, J , 

Ellsworth, Lewis 

Ellsworth, M. S , 

Elstun, VV. J , 

Engelbrecht, Ijud 

Eugelmann, Dr. George... 

Epperson, VV. T 

Ervendberg, Dr. L. C 

Ervendberg, T. C 

Evans. John 

Eveleth, S 

Eveleth, Samuel A 

Everett, Franklin 

Ewing, J. M 

Eyler, Rev. D. J 

Eyster, D 

Fairall, H. H 

Faircliild, Prof. J. H 

Fairchild, John P 

Fairbanks, F 

Fairbanks, J. P. 

Fallon, John , 



Kansas. 

Kansas. 

North Carolina. 

Connecticut, 

Illinois. 

Missouri. 

Michigan. 

Pennsylvania. 

Illinois. 

Wisconsin. 

California. 

California. 

Iowa. 

Wisconsin. 

Pennsylvania. 

Pennsylvania, 

South Carolina. 

New York. 

Calif'iruia. 

Gi^orgia. 

Vermont. 

Pennsylvania. 

Wisconsin. 

Illinois. 

New York. 

Pennsylvania. 

Pennsylvania. 

Connecticut. 

Pennsylvania. 

Illinois. 

New York. 

Massachusetts. 

Virgniia. 

Pennsylvania. 

Mich. & Wis. 

Coloiado & Kas. 

St. Domingo. 

Mississippi. 

Ohio. 

South Carolina. 

Illinois 

Illinois. 

Illinois. 

Indiana. 

Ohio. 

Missouri. 

Texas. 

Mexico. 

Texas. 

Nebraska. 

Maine. 

Maine. 

Michigan. 

Texas. 

Pennsylvania. 

Pennsylvania. 

Iowa. 

Ohio. 

New Y^ork. 

Vermont. 

Vermont. 

Massachusetts. 



Farnsworth, P. J 

Fauntleroy, H H 

Featherston, G W 

Fellows, H. B 

Fellows, W 

Felt, C VV., and others, 

Felt, John 

Female College, Arkadel 

phia 

Fenderick, E 

Feudler, Aug 

Feudler, Aug 

Ferguson, G F 

Ferriss, E. J 

Finfrock, J. H 

Fiiiley, A. J 

Finley, H S 

Finley, P. F 

Finley, R. W 

Fischer, Dr. James C ... 

Fish, Edmund 

* Fish, Lucien 

Fisher, Dr. J. C 

Fisher, Dr. Galen, M ... 

Fiske, W. M. L 

Fitch, Dr. Joseph 

Fitzgerald, Kev. P 

Fleming, John 

Flett, Andrew 

Flint, Prof. W 

Flippin, VV. B 

Florer, Thomas \V 

Foote, Elisha 

Folsom, C. A 

Force, N. P 

Forey, J. C 

Foike, A 

Forke, J. L 

Foster, J. H 

Foster, Robert W 

Foster, W. L 

Foye, Pr.if. J. C 

Frantz, Jacob 

Eraser, James 

Eraser, James 

Eraser, James B < 

Fi eeiuau, F. N ........ . 

Freeman, il. C •. 

Freese, G 

French, Fred. H 

French^ I. S 

French, J. B 

French. J. R 

Frey, Samuel C 

Friedrich, Otto 

Fiiel, P 

Fries, G. W 

Fritts, J. S 

Frombps, Prof. Oliver S. 

Frost, Prof. A 

Frost, C. C 

Frost, Colonel E. C 



Iowa. 

Virginia. 
Arkansas. 
New Y'ork. 
Wisconsin. 
Massachusetts. 
New York. 

Arkansas. 

Pennsylvania. 

Massachusetts. 

Missouri. 

Florida. 

Ohio. 

Idaho. 

Iowa. 

Iowa. 

Arkansas. 

Missouri. 

Ohio. 

Kansas. 

Kansas. 

Ohio. 

Florida. 

New York. 

Llinois. 

North Carolina 

New Jersey. 

Hud. Bay Ter. 

New York. 

Arkansas. 

Mississippi. 

New York. 

Mississippi. 

Missouri. 

Iwva. 

Texas. 

Texas. 

Michigan. 

Louisiana. 

Alabama. 

Wisconsin. 

Pennsylvania. 

Ohio. _ 

Virginia. 

Ohio. 

New Hampshire. 

Illinois. 

Texas. 

Tennessee. 

Now Hampshire. 

New Hampshire. 

New York. 

Ohio. 

Texas. 

Pennsylvania. 

New York. 

New Jersey. 

California. 

New Jersey. 

Vermont. 

New Y''ork. 



* Deceased. 



LIST OF METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVERS. 
List of meteorological observers, &c. — Continued. 



91 



Name. 



Fry, Lieutenant Joseph. . 

Fuller, Dr. E. N 

Fuller, R. M 

Fuller, W. G 

Gaffney. J. O 

Gaines, Rev. A. G 

Gale. \V 

Gamble. J. W 

Gantt, Dr. W. H 

Gardiner, James 

Gardiner, ,1. H 

Gardiner, K. H 

* Gardiner, Hon. R. H... 

Garland, J. G 

Garland, Samtiel G 

Garrison, O. E 

Garvin, Dr. P. C 

Gary, Jacob S 

Gay, Thomas 

Gay, V. P 

Giljbes, Prof. L. R 

Gibbon, Larduer 

Gibbons, H 

Gibb.ms, J. S 

(iibl>.s. T 

Gibson, II 

Gibson, K. T 

Giddiugs, Rev. George B 

Gidlev. 1. M 

Giifunl, B. R 

Gifford, R. R 

Giles, F. W 

Gill, Joseph II 

Giliingham, W 

Gilliss, Charles J 

Gilman, Stephen 

Gilman, W. H 

(jihiian, \V. S.. jr 

Gilmore, M 

Gilinour, A. FI. J 

Glasco, J. M 

Glenn, J M 

Glennie, Rev. Alex 

Glover, Eli S 

Goff, Mrs. M. A 

Gold, T. S 

GohJsmitli, E 

Goodman, \V. K 

Gooduow, I.T 

Gordon, Hobert 

Gordon, Dr. W. A 

G<irton, J. S 

Goss, B. F 

fioss, (Jeorpc C 

Goss, W. K 

Gould, Lewis A 

Gould, M 

Graham, J 

Graham, Paul 

Grant, lienjaniin 

Grant, Charles 



State. 



Fl rida. 

South Carolina. 

New York. 

Ohio. 

Texas. 

Maine. 

Wiseonsin. 

Ohio. 

Texas. 

Texas. 

New York. 

Maine. 

Maine. 

Maine 

Bahamas. 

Minnesota. 

Florida. 

New Jersey. 

Wisconsin. 

Illinois. 

South Carolina. 

Florida. 

California. 

N\'W York. 

Texas. 

Nebraska. 

Georgia. 

Illinois. 

Iowa. 

Louisiana. 

Massachusetts. 

Kansas. 

Illinois. 

Maryland. 

Massachusetts. 

Maine. 

Kansas. 

New York. 

Ohio. 

Canada. 

Texas. 

^J'exas. 

Souih Carolina. 

Georgia. 

Michigan. 

Connecticut. 

Tennessee. 

Maryland. 

Kansas. 

California. 

Wisconsin. 

New York. 

Kansas. 

Iowa. 

Iowa. 

(.'alifornia. 

Maine. 

New York. 

Arkansas. 

Pennsylvania. 

Georgia. 



Name. 



Grant, C. W 

Grant, Miss Ellen 

Grant, J 

Grant, Dr. W. T 

Grape, George S 

Grathwohl, J 

Grave, Mary A 

Green, A. R 

Greene, Prof. Dascom... 

Gregory, S. O 

Giidley, Rev. J 

Griest, John 

Griest, Miss M 

Griffing, Henry 

Griffith, R. II 

GrinnoU, J 

Griswold, L 

Griswold, T. L 

Groesbeck, Mrs. E. W. . 

Grofl", T.Louis 

Gronevveg, L 

Guest, W. E 

Gunn, Donald 

Guptill, G. W 

Haas, Henry 

Habersham, S E 

Hachez, Ferd 

Hagan, W. E 

Hagensick, J. M 

Hague, Captain 

Hahn, Charles 

Haines, John 

Haines, William 

Hall, Dr. A 

Hall, Joel 

Hall, Joseph H 

Hall, S. W 

Hallowell, Benjamin 

Hamaker, Marion F 

Hamilton, Prof. J 

Hamilton, Captain W... 

Hannlton, Rev. W 

liamilron, W. H 

Hanmiitt, J. W 

Hampton, W. C 

llanan, ]?. P 

1 1 ance, Ebeiiezer 

Hanna, G. B 

Hannaford, E 

Hanscoin, R. F 

Haushew, Henry E . 

Harding, Colonel Horace 

Hardy, H. F 

Hardy, Dr. J. F. E 

Ilarkness, W 

Harper, G. \V 

Harper, Prof. L 

Harper, Prof. L 

Harris, A. J 

Harris, Dr. J. O 

Harris, R 



State. 



Illinois. 

Illinois. 

Illinois. 

Georgia. 

Maryland. 

Pennsylvania. 

Minnesota. 

Mississippi. 

New Yoik. 

New York. 

Wisconsin. 

Indiana. 

Indiana. 

Illinois. 

Michigan. 

Kentucky. 

Tennessee. 

Tennessee. 

Kansas. 

Illinois. 

Ohio. 

New York. 

Hud. Bay Ter. 

Maine. 

New York. 

Georgia. 

Wisconsin. 

Virginia. 

Iowa. 

vVasiiingtonTer. 

Pennsylvania. 

Indiana. 

Georgia. 

Canada. 

Illinois. 

New Hampshire 

Maine. 

Virginia. 

jNlissouri. 

Tennessee. 

Bahamas. 

Nebraska. 

North Carolina. 

Ohio. 

Ohio. 

Missouri. 

I'ennsylvania. 

Massachusetts. 

Ohio. 

New Hamp.shiro. 

Maryland. 

Alabama. 

Arkansas. 

North Carolina. 

New York. 

Ohio. 

New Jersey. 

Mississippi. 

Alabama. 

Illinois. 

Tennessee. 



' CeceuBed. 



92 LIST OF METEOEOLOGICAL OBSERVERS. 

List of meteorological observers, &c. — Contiimed. 



Name. 



Harrison, B. F 

Halt, J. H 

Haitt, C. F 

Harvey, J. C 

Haskm.W L 

Hastings, J 

Hasvvell, Kev. J. R 

Hatch, A. L 

Hatch, Dr. F. \V 

Hatch, H 

Hatch, J 

Hattiekl, Jos C 

Hauser, Emil 

Haven. S. F 

Hawks, Dr. J. M 

Hayes, Dr. W. W 

Hayue, J. B 

Haj'vvood, Prut". J 

Heastou, D. J 

Heckeinian, Rev. H — 
*Hedi:e.s, Urban D.... 

Heger, Dr. A 

Heiiiistreet, J. W 

Heisely, Dr. J 

Hehn, Thus. B 

Henrlersuti, W 

Herrick, F. C 

Herrick J. D 

Hester, Lieut. J. W... 

Heiibuer, O. T 

Heyser, W.,jr 

Hibbard, A. A 

Hickok, W. O 

Hicks, John 

Hicks, J. C 

Hicks, Dr. W. R 

Hieto, J. A 

Higgles, Prof. D. F... 

Higgius, James 

*Hildreth S. P 

Hill, F. G 

Hill„G. D 

Hill,L. J 

Hillier, Rev. Spencer L 



Himoe. John E 

Himoe; Dr. S. O 

Hindman, S. M. N 

Hiscox, G D 

Hoadley, C H 

Hobart, Ed. F 

Hobbs, Chas. M 

Hobbs, Mi.ss M A 

Hobbs, rinT 

Hobbs, William H 

Hotf, Dr. Alex. H 

Hoff.J. W 

Hoffer, Dr. J. R 

Hotifer, Mary E 

Holcomb, A 

Hollenbeck, D. K 



State. 



Connecticut. 

New York. 

Nova Scotia. 

Pennsylvania. 

New York. 

Pennsylvania. 

New York. 

Missis.sippi. 

California. 

Mississippi. 

New Hampshire. 

Ohio. ' 

Illinois & Wis. 

Massachusetts. 

Florida. 

California. 

Bahamas. 

Ohio. 

Missouri. 

Pennsylvania. 

Delaware. 

Pennsylvania. 

N. Y. and Minn. 

Pennsylvania. 

Indiana. 

Alabama. 

Kentucky. 

Ohio. 

Florida. 

Pennsylvania. 

Pennsylvania. 

N. Y. and Minn. 

Pennsylvania. 

Wisconsin. 

Wisconsm. 

North Carolina. 

Mexico. 

Nova Scotia. 

Tennessee. 

Ohio. 

Ohio. 

Dakota. 

Nebraska. 

N.Y., Ohio, Wis., 

and Minn. 
Wisconsin. 
Kansas. 
Oiegon. 
Illinois. 
Connecticut. 
Iowa. 
Indiana. 
Indiana. 
Pennsylvania. 
Indiana. 
Ala.ska Ter. 
Virginia. 
Pennsylvania. 
Pennsylvania. 
Massachusetts. 
Ohio. 



Name. 



Hollenbeck, F 

Holley, Benj. F 

Hollingworth, G. W 

HoUister, Dr. J 

Holmes, D. J 

Holmes, E. S 

Holmes, Dr. E. S 

Holmes, J. C 

Holmes, Thomas 

Holstou,Dr. J. G. F 

Holt, Rev. Jos. W 

Holt, William 

Hoover, W 

Hopkins, Prof. A 

Hopkins, Rev. Robert — 

Hopkins, Prof. W. F 

Horn, Miss Clotilde 

Horn, Dr. H. B 

Horner, W H 

Horr, Dr. Asa 

Ilorr, Ed W 

Horsford, William F 

Hosnier, A 

Hotchkiss, Jed 

Hough, Dr. F. B 

Houghton, G S 

Houghton, S. W 

House, J. C 

House, J. Cnroll 

Howard, J. S 

Howe, Edwin 

Howell, R 

Hoyt, Peter L 

Hudson, Dr. A. T 

Huebeuer, L. R 

Huestis, Prof. A. C 

Huffaker, S. S 

Hughes, Jno 

Hull, A. B. 

Hunt, Ashley D 

Hunt, Rev. D 

Hunt, ^^eorge M 

Hunt, Dr. 8. B 

Huntingdon, George C .. 
Hurlburt, Dr M. J. E... 

Hurlm, Rev. W 

Hurtt, F. W 

Huse, Frederick J 

Huston, T. A 

Hyde, G. A 

Hyde, Mrs. G. A 

Hyde, Stephen 

Hyde, Rev. T. C P 

Imboden, J. B 

Ingalls, S. Marshall 

Ingalsbee, Greuville M. . . 

IngersoU, J. D 

Ingraham & Hyland 

Ingram, Dr. J 

Ironside, R B 

Irvine, Professor S. G ... 



State. 



Ohio. 

Alabama. 

Kansas. 

Michigan. 

Massachusetts. 

New York. 

Michigan. 

Michigan. 

Indiana. 

Ohio. 

Minnesota. 

Illinois. 

Ohio. 

Massachusetts. 

Minnesota. 

Maryland. 

Kansas. 

Kansas. 

Missouri. 

Iowa. 

Iowa. 

Wisconsin. 

New York. 

Virginia. 

New York. 

Pennsylvania. 

Tennessee. 

New York. 

New Yoik. 

Arkansas. 

California. 

New York. 

New Hampshire. 

Iowa. 

Pennsylvania. 

Indiana. 

Missouri. 

Pennsylvania. 

Connecticut. 

Alabama. 

Connecticut. 

New York. 

New York. 

Ohio. 

Wisconsin. 

New Hampshire. 

Ohio. 

Illinois. 

Alabama. 

Mass. and Ohio. 

Ohio. 

New York. , 

New York. 

Virginia 

New York. 

New York. 

New York. 

Kansas. 

Ohio and N. J. 

Oiegon. 

Ohio. 



► Deceased. 



LIST OF METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVERS. 93 

List of meteorological observers, d'c. — Coutiuued. 



Name. 




Ives, E'lwanl R 

Ives, William 

Jacknian. A 

Jaikson, Dr. A. W 

J.ai-ksou, Jolin 

Ja<kr^oii, SMinuel X 

Jacobs, H. E 

Jacobs, I'lof. M 

Jaeger, H. W 

James, Miss Auna 

James. Prof. C S 

*,James, Dr. John 

Janes, C. C 

Jaqnp, A 

Jenkins, John F 

Jenkins, J. L 

Jenuino'S, J 

Jennings, Dr. Samuel K - 




Jilson, B. C 

Johns, Dr. Montgomery. 

Johnson, A. K 

Johnson, Enoch D 

Johnson, E. W 

Johnson, .Joseph 

Johnson, Norton 

Johnson, H. 

Johnson, Kev. Samuel.. 
Johnson, Tliomas H.... 

Johnson, Warren 

Johnson, Dr. W. M 

Johnson, W. W 

Johnston, Prof. John ... 
Johnsroii, William M... 

Jones, Benjamin \V 

Jones, O. P 

Jones, Prof. Gardner.... 

Jones, Jiisiah 

Jones. Silas B 

Jones, W. Martin 

Jorgeiisou, C.N 

Jourdan, Prot. C. II 

Joy, Prof. Charles A 

Julien, Alexis A 

Kaler, Fuderick 

Kapp. Erm st 

Kaucher, William 

Kedzie, I'rof. R. C 

Keenan, T. .J R 

Keep, litiv. W. W 

Keliett. Ihomas A 

Kellf-y. (). H 

Keilo^'<r, F 

K<-|lot,Mr, (i. J 

KelltiiM. A. O 

Kcllv, Ciiarles W 

Kels'ey, Pn.f. U.H 

Kel.sey, KatliaL) 

K.-m,.er, (}. W. II 

Kentlall. James Virginia. 

Kemlail. John F j New York 



Florida. 

New York. 

Vermont. 

Louisiana. 

Pennsylvania. 

Virginia. 

Pennsylvania. 

Pennsylvania. 

Ohio. 

Illinois. 

Pennsylvania. 

Illinois. 

Ohio. 

Ohio. 

New York. 

Illinois. 

Wisconsin. 

Ala., Texas, and 
Tenn. 

Tennessee. 

Maryland. 

Wisconsin. 

Virginia & Ohio. 

New York. 

South Carolina. 

Illinois. 

Nevada. 

New York. 

Ohio. i 

Maine. 

Noith Carolina. 

Montana. 

Connecticut. 

Mississippi. 
Virj^inia. 

PeniKsylvania. 

Indiana. 

Maryland. 

Virginia. 

Canada. 

Iowa. 

Maryland. 

New York. 

Aniilies. 

Texas. 

Texas. 

Missouri. 

Michigan. 

Mississippi. 

Florida. 

Minnesota. 

Minnesota. 

Tex is. 

Wisconsin. 

Wisconsin. 

Minnesota. 

Wisciinsin. 

New Yolk. 

Indiana. 



'Kennicott, R. 



Kent. Benjamin 

Kerlin. Dr. I. N 

Kerr, Prof. W. C 

Kersey, Dr. V 

Kibbe, T. R 

Kilgore, W 

Kilpatrick, Dr. A. R 

King, Mrs. Adelia C 

.King's College 

Kingsbury, J. H 

Kiiby, D. J 

Kirkpatrick, Prof. J. A.. 

Kirtland, Dr. J. P , 

Kizer, W. B 

Kiuge, E. T 

*Kluge, Dr. J. P 

Knauer, J 

Knox, James C 

Knoud, Rev. James 

Kohler, Edward 

Kohleski, Theo. 

Koniiig, Rev. P. W 

Kownslar, Miss E 

Kownslar, Dr. R 

Kridelbaugh, S. II 

Kron, F. J 

Ku miner, E.. 

Kunster, H 

Laighton, Thomas B 

Landon, Ania S 

Laudoi), Ste|)hen 

Lane, Prof. C. W 

Lane, .John 

Lane, Moses 

Langdon, Laurens A 

Laugee, Dr. Ignatius 

Langguth, J. G., jr 

Laiigworthy, A. Darwin. . 

Lapham, Darius 

Laphain, I. A 

La: kin, Prof. E. P 

Larrabee, W. II 

L;iish, T. J 

Laselle, C B 

Laszio, Charles 

Lalhrop, Prof. S. P 

Latimer, George 

Latiiinore, Prnf. S. A 

Lawson, G. W 

Lea, John 

Lear, O. H. P 

Learned, Dwiglit W 

Leavenworth, D. C 

Lee. Charles A 

*Leffi'its. John 

Lcffman, L 

Letroy, (Japt. J. II 

*Lehman, Dr. H. M 

Leonard, Rev. L. W 



State. 



Alaska & Hud. 
Bay Territory. 
Mj^ssaclmsetts. 
Penns_\ Ivauia. 
Norih Carolina. 
Indiana. 
California. 
Minne Ota. 
Lcmisiaua. 
Ohio. 

Nova Scotia. 
Pennsylvania. 
Massacluisetts. 
Pennsylvania. 
Ohio. 
Missouri. 
Pennsylvania. 
New Gianada. 
Indiana. 
New Hampshire. 
Missouri. 
Penns^'jvania. 
Montana. 
Missouri. 
Virginia. 
Virginia. 
Iowa. 

North Carolina. 
Pennsylvania. 
Illinois. 

New Hampshire. 
New York. 
New Y'ork. 
Georgia. 
Michigan. 
New York. 
New Yoik. 
Iowa. 
Illinois. 
Illinois. 
Ohio. 

Wisconsin. 
Wisconsin. 
Indiana. 
Ohio. 
Indiana. 
Mexico. 
Wisconsin. 
Porto Rico. 
New York. 
Dakota. 
Ohio. 
Misoiiri. 
Connecticut. 
( ^jiinecticiit. 
New Y'ork. 
New York. 
New York. 
Canada. 
Montana. 
New Hampshire. 



Deceased. 



94 LIST OF METEOROLOGICAL OBSEEVERS. 

List of meteorological observers, &c. — Continued. 



Name. 



LeoBard, W. P 

Levings, Chas 

Lewis, Charles H 

Lewis, James 

Lewis, James 

LiDgow, B. G 

Linus, M 

Lippiijcott, James S 

Lippiucott, Joseph W 

Little, Frank 

Little, J. Thomas 

Livezay, G. W 

Livings, B. C 

Livingston, G. F ■. 

Livingston, Prof. Wm 

Lobdell, Mrs. M. J 

Locke, Samuel 

Lock hart, James 

*Lockwood, G. P 

Logan, Dr. T. M 

Loines, Ur. J. P 

Lord, W. G 

Loriiig, C 

Loughridge, Dr. J. H 

Love, Mis. James 

Love, Louisa P 

Lowndes, B. O 

Lowrie, J. R 

Liips, Jacob 

Lukins, John F 

Lull, James S 

Lumpkin, VV. M 

Lumsden, Rev. William.. 

*Luneniann. John H 

Luptou, N. T 

Luther, S. M 

LutDcH, James 

Lyude, C. J 

Lyons, Curtis J 

McAfee, J. R 

McBfcth, Miss Sue 

McCarty, H. D 

*McCary , Robert 

McCary , \V illiam 

McClung, C. L 

McCouiiy, Dr. H. A 

McConnell, E. M 

McCunnell, Townsend 

McCormick, J. O 

McCormick, William A.. 

McCoy, A. R 

McC oy , Dr. F 

McCoy, Miss Lizzie 

McCruady, Daniel 

McDonald, M 

McDowell, Rev. A 

McDowell, W. H 

McDowell, W. W 

McElraih, J. J 

McElroy, Barnet 

McGee, J 



State. 



Iowa. 

Illinois. 

Tennessee. 

Utah. 

New York. 

Missouri. 

New York. 

New Jersey. 

New Jersey. 

Michigan. 

Illinois. 

Ohio. 

Minnesota. 

Wisconsin. 

Illinois. 

New York. 

Minnesota. 

liud. Bay Ter. 

Virginia. 

California. 

New York. 

Maine. 

Wisconsin. 

Indiana. 

Iowa. 

Iowa. 

Maryland. 

Pennsylvania. 

Wisconsin. 

Ohio. 

Mississippi. 

Missouri. 

Ohio. 

Missouri & Ky. 

Alabama. 

Ohio. 

Colorado. 

Wisconsin. 

Massachusetts. 

•Georgia. 

Arkansas. 

Kansas & Ohio. 

Mississippi. 

Mississippi. 

Ohio. 

Texas. 

Pennsylvania, 

Iowa. 

Maryland. 

Kansas. 

Pennsylvania. 

Iowa& Indiana. 

Iowa& Indiana. 

Iowa. 

Virginia. 

North Carolina. 

West Virginia. 

North Carolina. 

Arkansas. 

Pennsylvania. 

Massachusetts. 



Name. 



McKee, Rev. C. B 

McKenzie, J. M 

McLain, W. D 

McMasters, Professor S. Y . 

McMillan, S. B 

McMullen, J. F 

McMore, P A 

McNelty, Dr. W. W 

McNett, E. L 

McQnigg, J 

McWiUiams, Dr. Alex... 

Maclarlane, R 

Macgregor, C.J 

Mack, A.W 

Mack, E. T 

Mack, Rev. E. T 

Mack, Robert C 

Mackenzie, J 

Mackie, M 

Magee, I 

Magnetic Observatory ... 
Maguire, Professor J. F.. 

Malcolm, W. S 

Maiden, J. J 

Maliiiickrodt, C 

Manchester, Geo 

Mankard, Mrs. M.J 

Manley, R. M 

Mann, Wm 

Mapes, H. H 

Mar.y, Professor O 

Marks, Cory don 

Mallow, Colonel W. B.. 

Marsh, Chas 

Mar.sh, C. A.J 

Marsh, M. M 

Marsh, Mrs. M. M 

Marsh, O.J 

Marsh, Roswell 

Marshall, Gregory 

Martin, Dr. Alex 

Martin, Dr. Geo 

Martin, Dr. G. Alex 

Martin, K. A 

Martin, R. A 

Martin, Dr. Samuel D.- 
Martin, W 

Martindale, Dr. Jos. C 

Martindale, Isaac C 

Marvin, J. W 

Mason, Edgar E 

Mason, Pn. lessor R. Z.. 
Mather, Professor W. W. 

Mathews, D , 

Mathews, Geo 

*Matthews, Dr. J 

Mathews, Jos. McD 

Malhis, H.C 

Matthews, H. W 

^Matthews, Prof. M. M.. 
Matiison, Andrew , 



State. 



Dist. Col. & Va. 

Iowa & Neb. 

Colorado. 

Ill's and Ken. 

Ohio. 

Minnesota. 

New York. 

Tennessee. 

Penns} Ivania. 

Wisconsin. 

Maryland. 

Hud. Bay Ter. 

Canada. 

Massachusetts. 

New Jersey. 

New York. 

New Hampshire 

Hud. Bay Ter. 

New York. 

New York. 

Canada. 

Maryland. 

New York. 

Michigan. 

Missouri. 

Rhode Island. 

Lcuisiaua. 

Vermont. 

Wisconsin. 

Michigan. 

Illinois. 

Pennsylvania. 

Jamaica. 

Vermont. 

Vermont. 

Vermont. 

Ohio. 

Illinois. 

Ohio. 

Iowa. 

Indiana. 

Pennsylvania. 

Arkansas. 

Pennsylvania. 

Delaware. 

Kentucky. 

Pennsylvania. 

Pennsylvania. 

Pennsylvania. 

Virginia. 

Nebraska. 

Wisconsin. 

Ohio. 

Wisconsin. 

Wisconsin. 

Wisconsin. 

Ky. and Ohio. 

Kentucky. 

New York. 

New York. 

Kentucky. 



' Deceased. 



LIST OF METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVERS. 95 

List of meteorological observers, &c. — Continued. 




Maultl Dr. D. W 

MauiK-ey. Rev S W 

Manran, Dr. P. B 

HlHiirice, C F 

Maxe>, W F 

^iayer, Profest^or Alfred M. 

*Mayliew, Royal 

*JIia<'Laui II. G 

Moachaui, S 

"Mead, Allen 

Mead. Cliauucey 

Mead, H. C 

Mead, Dr. S. B 

*Mead, Stepheu O 

*Mead, Dr. Thompsou 

Meehaii, J 

Meehan, Tlios 

Meeker, Ralph E 

Meiiifield, Geo. C 

Meriwether, C 

Meriwether, C. J 

Meriwether, R. T 

Men iani, A. M 

Merriatu, A. M 

Merriam, C. C 

Merriam, G. F 

Merriam, Sidney A 

Merrick. Thus. 1' 

Merrill, Dr. E 

Merrill, Rev. S. II 

Meriitt, John C 

Merwin, Mrs. E. II 

MessMiau, Dr. J 

Metcalf, II 

Meteall', Dr. John G 

Meybert, Dr. A. P 

Miles, Thos. H 

Military Post 

Millard, A. J 

Millard, .Joseph D 

Miller, C. H 

Miller, Rev. J 

Miller, John H 

Miller, L. A 

Millikeii, John T 

Mills, Dr. B. F 

Mills John II 

Minick, J. B 

Mitciiell. Dr. R. W 

Mitchell, Dr. S. F 

Mitehell, Uon. W 

Moeller, G 

MoHatt. Professor A. G ... 

Moke, Dr. Jaj. E 

Mooie, Professor A 

Moore, Dr. Alex. P 

Moore. Asa P 

Moore, Mrs. Bellt 

Mooie, G. R 

Moore, David 

Moore, Dr. G. F 

Moore, J. A 



Delaware. 

Minnesota. 

Florida. 

New York. 

Missouri 

Md. &, Pa. 

Indiana. 

Illinois. 

Illinois. 

Iowa. 

Iowa. 

\VisconsiD. 

Illinois. 

Vt. and N. H. 

Illinois. 

Pennsylvania. 

Pennsylvania. 

Illinois. 

Indiana. 

Virginia. 

Vii<riuia. 

Alabama. 

Massachusetts. 

Colorado. 

New York. 

Kansas. 

Massachusetts. 

New Jersey. 

La. and Texas. 

Maine. 

New I'ork. 

Illinois. 

Iowa. 

New York. 

Massachusetts. 

Pennsylvania. 

Kentucky. 

Newfoundland. 

Iowa. 

]\Iichi(i^an. 

Nebraska. 

Kentucky. 

Kansas. 

\'erniont. 

Pennsylvania. 

Wisconsin. 

North Carolina. 

Michigan. ' 

Tennessee. 

Michigan. 

Mas.sachusetts. 

Wisconsin. 

Indian Territory. 

Texas. 

Mississippi. 

Arkansas. 

Maine. 

Missouri. 

Virginia. 

Mississippi. 

Nortii Carolina. 

North Carolina. 



Moore, Jos 

Moore, Mahlon 

Moore, Dr. S. P 

Moore, Dr. W 

Morehouse, A. W 

Morclle, Professor D 

Morris, Miss E 

Morris, Professor O. W. 

Morris, O. W 

^'Morrison, W. H 

Morse, Geo. M 

Morse, J. P 

Moses. J 

Moss, G. B 

Moulton, J. P 

Moulton, M. M 

Moultrie, J. L 

Mowry, Geo 

Moyer, H C 

Muhlenberg, F. A., jr... 

Muir, Wni 

Mnller, Professor R 

I Mulligan, A 

I Mulvey, Oliver 

I Munfield, Geo. C 

: Munger, L. F 

! Muich, E M 

[ Murdoch, G 

1 Mussey, R. D 

I Myers, J. H 

Nash, Rev. J. A 

Nasou, Rev. Elias 

I Naturaliste Canadierr 

I Naval Hospital 

j Naval Hospital 

Naval Hospital 

Naval Hospi tal 

Naval Station 

Navy Yard 

Navy Yard 

Navy Yard 

Navy Yard 

Neely, E. B 

Nelson, II M 

Nelson, Professor J. P . . . 

Nelson, R. J 

Nel.son, S. A 

Nettletou, A 

Newcomb, Guilford S... 

Ne wcouib, .J . B 

Newkirk, R. M 

Newton, Rev. Alfred 

Newton, .John 

Newton, W. II 

Nichols, C. L 

Nicholson, Rev. J.J 

Niell, Thos 

Noll, Arthur I> 

Normal Srhool 

North, Dr. S. B 

Norton, J. 11 

Norton, Prof. W. A 



Indiana. 

Pennsylvania. 

Louisiana. 

Missouri. 

New York. 

North Carolina. 

New York. 

New York. 

Tennessee. 

Illinois. 

Massachusetts. 

New Yoik. 

Nicaragua. 

Illinois. 

Maine. 

Iowa. 

Alabama. 

Pennsylvania. 

Pennsylvania. 

Pennsylvania. 

Missouri. 

Pennsylvania. 

New Y'oik. 

Indiana. 

Indiana. 

New York. 

Kentucky. 

New Brunswick. 

Massachusetts. 

Missouri. 

Iowa. 

N. H. and Mass. 

Canada. 

California. 

New York. 

Massachusetts. 

Pennsylvania. 

New York. 

Florida. 

PeiHisylvania. 

Virginia. 

Tennessee. 

Missouri. 

Massachusetts. 

Maryland. 

Nova Scotia. 

Massachusetts. 

Virginia. 

Massachusetts. 

Illinois. 

Indiana. 

Ohio: 

I'lorida. 

Wisconsin. 

Maine. 

Alabama. 

Ohio. 

New .Jersey. 

Massachusetts. 

Alabama. 

New York. 

Delaware. 



* Deceased. 



y*J LIST OF METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVERS, 

List of meteorological observers^ i&c. — Continued. 



Name, 



State. 



Norvell, F 

Noursp, II. J 

Nutiaiiei, Fri)t. Frs. J 

Oaktield C.F 

Oaklev, Tbunias 

Ob.strvatnry Harvard Col- 

'(^fff 

O'D. iH'ffhu", Jubn 

Oa^^ll, Dr. H. F 

Odell, I'iet.lier 

Offutt, Di.J.J . 

Ofifiaiia ( euival de Esta- 

distica 

Olds, VVrirren 

Oliver, J(.lm 

OiiTishy, G. !S 

Ortou, James 

Osborne, U..T. C 

O.sgood. n. H , 

Owen, Hi DJamiii 

Owpu, Dr. b. D 

OwRley, J.B 

Packard , Lc v i S 

*Paddoc'k, James A 

Faiue, Charles L 

Paine, Cbailes >S 

Paiue, Dr. H.M 

Palm, Suaure 

Palmer, Miss Jerusba R. . 

Pardee, Eutreue 

Pardee, II. G 

Park, Williani K 

Park, Ri V. Uosuell 

Parker, J. 13 

Parker, J. D 

Paiker, Joliii D 

Parker. J or-ejih 

Pai ker, Di . J oseph M . . . . 

Parker, Meizar 

Parker, Nathan H 

Parker, Prot. \V-. H 

Parkinson, D. F 

Paraielee, Ezra 

Parry, William 

Parsons, B. W 

Parsons. L. H 

Partnck, J. M 

Parviu. P. G 

Parviu, Pr.)f.Theo. S 

Pasbley, J. S 

Paterson, J.iev. Dr. A. B. . 

Patiick. D\: John J 

Pattison, H. A 

Pattou, Thomas 

Pal ton , Dr. V\ m. N 

Paxton, J. W 

Payne. Dr. J. W 

Peabody, Prot. S. H 

Peale, Dr J. B 

Pearce, Hanisou 

Pearce, James A., jr 



Dakota Territ'y. 

Wisconsin. 

Virginia. 

Kansas. 

Mississippi. 

Massachusetts. 

Illinois. 

Minn, and Iowa. 

New Hampshire. 

Virginia. 

Costa Rica. 

Illinois 

Mi Ligan. 

Ohio. 

Mass. 

Alabama. 

Maine. 

West Vii'ginia. 

Indiana. 

' liio. 

New York. 

Vermont. 

Vermont. 

.Verui'int. 

New York. 

Texas. 

New Jersey. 

Ohio. 

Nebraska. 

Virginia. 

Wisconsin. 

Michigan. 

Maine. 

Illinois. 

Vermont. 

Tennessee. 

Wisconsin. 

Iowa. 

Vermont. 

Calil'oruia. 

New York. 

New Jersey. 

Massachusetts. 

New Jersey. 

New York. 

Iowa. 

Iowa. 

Wisconsin, 

Minnesota. 

Illinois, 

Michigan. 

Virginia. 

Virginia, 

Michigan. 

Alabama. 

Ver.niont. 

Pennsylvania. 

Utah. 

Maryland. 



Name. 



Pearson, John 

Peck, Dr. John E 

Peck, Dr. W. R 

Peelor, David 

Poet, Abraham S 

Pelzee. George S 

Pendleton, Mr. E. M 

Pendleton, P. C 

Percival, Dr. Charles F.. . 

Perkins, Capr. A. D 

Perkins, Dr. H. C 

Pernot, Claudius 

Perrault, Ed 

I erry. Rev. J.B 

Perry, W 

Peters, Adam 

Peters, H 

Peters, Thos. M 

Pettingill, Waldo 

Pettingill, W 

Petty, Chas 

Petty, McK 

Phelps, H. E 

Phelps, Highland W 

Phelps, Rev. Joshua 

Phel|S, K.H 

Phelps, W.VV 

Phillips, H 

Phillips, Prof. Jas., D, D. 

Phillips, J. H 

Phillips, R, C 

Pickard, Dr.J. L 

Pickett, John 

Pierce, Warren 

Pillsbury, M. A 

Pillsbuiy, Mrs. M. A 

Pitctier, Dr. Zeuo 

Pitman, Charles H 

Pitman, E 

Pitman, M 

Pluiijb, Dr. Ovid 

Plummer, Dr. John T 

P<ie, James H 

*Pollard, T. F 

Pollock, Rev.J.E 

Pumeroy, F. G 

Pool, I>aac A 

Poole, H 

Porter, E, D 

Porter, Mrs. E. D 

Porter, Henry D 

Porter, Prot. \V 

* Posey, Dr. John F 

Pi ist Surgeon 

Potter, Dr.A. M 

*Potter, C D 

Potter, G. W 

Potts, Jean G 

Powel, Samuel 

Pratt, Prof, D.J 

Pratt, George B 



State. 



Florida. 

Florida. 

Ohio. 

Pennsylvania. 

Massachusetts. 

South Carolina. 

Georgia. 

Georgia. 

Alabama. 

Michigan. 

Massachusetts. 

New York. 

Michigan.. 

Mass. and Vt, 

New Jersey. 

Ohio. 

Indiana. 

Alabama. 

Maine. 

Ohio. 

fSouth Carolina. 

Vermont, 

Utah. 

Wisconsin. 

Iowa. 

Connecticut. 

Utah. 

Canada. 

North Carolina. 

Ohio, 

Ohio. 

Wisconsin. 

Virginia. 

Ohio, 

Ohio. 

Ohio. 

Michigan. 

New Hampshire 

Maine. 

Maine. 

Connecticut. 

Indiana. 

Ohio. 

Vermont. 

Missouri. 

Wisconsin. 

Illinois. 

Nova Scotia. 

Delaware. 

Delaware. 

Wisconsin. 

Wisconsin. 

Georgia. 

Kansas and Cal. 

Texas. 

New York. 

New York. 

Virginia. 

Rhode Island. 

New York. 

Iowa. 



* DeceaHed. 



LIST OF METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVERS. 
List of meteorological observers, &c. — Contiuucd. 



97 




Pratt, Dr. J. F 

Prentiss, Dr. II. C . . . 

Prescott, Dr. W 

Preston, Kcv. N. O... 

Prince, Charles 

Prince, G 

Purdie, John R 

Piirdot, E , 

Puruiort, N , 

Quincy, W. C 

Race, James A 

Raffensperger, E. B. 

Rain, John G 

Ralston, Kev. J. G... 

Ranibo, E. 15 

Randall, R. B 

Rankin, Colin 

Rankin, D.M 

Rankin, James 

Ranlett, E. L 

Raser, John Hojl .. 

Ravenel, II. W 

Raveucl, Thoma'i P. 
Ray, Dr. John D - . . 

Ray, L.G 

Rayal, James T 

Raymond, George.. 

Raymond, W. A 

Read, D.E 

Reade, J. M..- 

Reasure, Dr. F. M . . 
Redding, Tliomas B 

Reed, Edwin C 

Reed, Isaiah 

Reed, Lt. Jos 

Reid,' Jas. M 

Reid, Dr. Robert K 

Reid, Peter 

Reynolds, Henry... 

Reynolds, J 

Reynolds, Lanriston 
Reynolds, Orrin A.- 
Reynolds, R. M 

Reynolds, W 

Reynolds, W.C... 
Rhees, Dr. Morgan J 
Rhoades, Dr. John . 
Rhodes, W. H.T... 

Riblct, J. H 

Rice, Frank II 

Rice, Henry 

Richards, Thomas.. 
Ricksecker, L. E ... 
Riddell.Prof.W.P . 

Riggs, A. L 

Riggs, Rev. S. R... 
Riker, Walter H... 
Riotte, Hon. O.N... 

Ritchie, James 

Riter, F. G 

Robbing, Dr. James 

Roberts, D.H 

Robinson, Almon. . . 

7 S 



Maine. 

Massachusetts. 
New Hampshire. 
KaTisas. 
Maine. 
Maine. 
Virginia. 
Honduras. 
New Hampshire, 
Virginia. 
Missouri. 
Ohio. 
Nebraska. 
Pennsylvania. 
Indiana. 
California. 
H.B.T.«fe Can- 
ada. 
Ohio. 

Connecticut. 
Louisiana. 
Pennsylvania. 
South Carolina. 
South Carolina. 
Kentucky. 
Kentucky. 
Texas. 

Massachusetts. 
Michigan. 
Neb. and Iowa. 
Tex. & N. Mes. 
Michigan. 
Indiana. 
New York. 
Iowa. 

Pennsylvania. 
Georjgia. 
California. 
New York. 
Maine. 
Arkansas. 
Maine. 

Massachusetts. 
Alabama. 
Iowa. 
Virginia. 
New Jersey. 
Ohio. 
Texas. 
Illinois. 
Masfiachusetts. 
Massachusetts. 
H.B.Ter'y. 
Pennsylvania. 
Louisiana. . 
Minnesota. 
Minnesota. 
New York. 
Costa Rica. 
Massachusetts. 
Dakota. 
Massachusetts. 
Indiana. 
Maine. 



Robin,son, Rev. E. S 

Roby, Charles H 

Rockwell, Miss Charlotte. 

Rockwell, John A 

Rodman, Samuel 

Roe, J. II 

Roe, Rev. Sanford W.... 

Roedel, W. D 

Rotie, C. L 

Rogers, A. P 

Rogers, Francis M 

Rogers, J. S 

Rogers, O. P 

Roos, Charles 

Root, Dr. Martin N 

Root, Professor O 

Ross, B. R 

Rosseau, M. C , 

Rossiter, Professcn- G. R . 

Rothrock, William 

Ray, G. P 

Royal Engineers 

Ko^'al Engineers 

Ro} al Gazette , 

Rucker, B. H 

RufTm, David L 

liufiin, Julian C 

Ruggles, Homer 

Russell, Cyrus H 

Russell, O. F 

Rutherford, M 

Ryerson, Dr. Thonias... 

Salisbury, Elias O 

Samms, Dr. C. C 

Sampson, Alexander 

Sanders, B. O 

Sanford, S 

Sanford, Dr. S. N 

Sanger, Dr. W. W 

Sargent, John S 

Sartorius, Dr. Charles . . 

Sartwell, Dr. H. P 

Saurmau, John W 

Savage, Dr. G. S 

Savojy, T+iomas H 

Saville, J. J 

Sawkins. James G 

Sawyer, George B 

Sawyer, If. E 

Siiwyer, Thomas L 

Scandlin, Rev. Wai. G- . 

Scarritt, Rev. N 

Scbauber, H. A 



Scheeper, E. H. A 

Schenck, Dr. W. L 

Schctterly, Dr. H. R.... 

Schlegel, Albert 

Schley, W 

Schmidt, Dr. E. R 

Scholefield N 

Schriover, Francis 

Schue, Dr. A 

Scott, H. B 



Mississippi. 

Virginia. 

Connecticut. 

Georgia. 

Mas.'3achusetts. 

Illinois. 

Con. and N. Y. 

Virginia. 

West Virginia. 

Ohio. 

New York. 

Illinois. 

Illinois. 

Minnesota. 

Mass. and N.H. 

New York. 

H. B. Territory. 

Idaho. 

Virginia. 

Tennessee. 

Missouri. 

Bermudas. 

Nova Scotia. 

Bermudas. 

Texas. 

Virginia. 

Virginia. 

Missouri. 

New York. 

Arkansas. 

Texas. 

New Jersey, 

New York. 

Ohio. 

W. Territory. 

Virginia. 

Ohio. 

Ohio. 

New York. 

Massachusetts. 

Mexico. 

New York. 

Pennsylvania. 

Kentucky. 

Pennsylvania. 

Iowa. 

Jamaica. 

N. Hampshire. 

N. Hampshire. 

Tennessee. 

Massachusotts. 

Missouri. 

New York, Ohio, 

and Illinois. 
Iowa. 
Ohio. 
M ichigan. 
Massachusetts. 
Georgia. 
New Jersey. 
Connecticut. 
Pennsylvania. 
Wisconsin. 
Florida. 



98 LIST OF METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVERS. 

List of meteorological observers, &c. — Coutiuued. 



Name. 



State. 



Scott, James 

Scott, Samuel 

Scoviil, H. W.. 

Scriba, Victor 

Seabrook, Thomas 

Seavey, C. C 

Seibert, Samuel R 

Selby, Henry 

SeUz, Charles 

Seuior class, Mount Au 
burn Female Institute . . 

Sergeant, John T 

Seymour, E 

Seymour, Dr. E. W 

Shackelford, Prof. J 

Shaffer, J. M 

Shane, J. D 

Sharp, Dr. Vv^. H 

Shaw, Francis 

Shaw, Jos 

Shaw, M 

Sheerer, H. M 

Sheldon, Daniel 

Sheldon, D. S 

Sheldon, H. A 

Sheldon, H. C 

Shephard, J. A 

Shepherd, Smiley 

Sheppard, Benjamin 

Sheppard, Clarkson 

Sheppard, Eev. J. A 

Sheppard, Miss R. C 

Sherman, Rev. D. H ... 

Shields, J. H 

Shields, Rev. R 

Shinta, H.J 

Shoemaker, J. G 

Shortwell, D. F 

Shotwell, Samuel L., . . 

Shreve, Charles R 

Shriver, Howard 

Shuman, Brano . ., 

Shumard, G. G 

Sias, Professor Solomon... 

Siber, Andr. L 

Sibley,P. B 

Simpson, B. F 

Simpson, F. T 

Sissou, Rodman 

Skeen, W 

Slade, Frederick J 

Slaven, J. B 

Slaven, James 

Sloaue, Prof. J. R. W 

Slye, L. C 

Suiallvvood, Dr. Charles .. 

Small, F. A 

Smedley, John H 

Smith, A. C 

Smith, A. M 

'Smith, Prof. A. W 

Smith, Prof. B. Wilson ... 



Kansas. 

Pennsylvania. 

Illinois. 

Pdsnnsylvauia. 

Pennsylvania. 

Georgia. 

Wisconsin. 

Michigan. 

Nebraska. 

Ohio. 

New Jersey. 

Wisconsin. 

Kansas. 

Alabama. 

lovv^a. 

Kentucky. 

West Virginia. 

Massaehusetts. 

Ohio. 

Kansas. 

New York. 

Iowa. 

Iowa. 

Vermont. 

Rhode Island. 

Mississippi. 

Illinois. 

New Jersey. 

New Jersey. 

N. C. and Ala. 

New Jersey. 

Illinois. 

Alabama. 

Ohio. 

Wisconsin. 

Kansas. 

Miunesote.. 

Illinois. 

Ohio. 

Va. and N. J. 

Texas. 

Texas. 

Tex. and N. Y. 

Utah. 

Missouri. 

New Jersey. 

Georgia. 

Pennsylvania. 

Virginia. 

New York. 

California. 

Virginia. 

Ohio. 

Wisconsin. 

Canada. 

Maine. 

Pennsylvania. 

Minnesota. 

Bahamas. 

Connecticut. 

Iowa. 



Name. 



State. 



Smith, C.B 

Smith, Dr.C.C 

Smith, C.E 

Smith, Dr. Carl H 

Smith, Eli 

Smith, Dr. E. A 

Smith,E. A., and daughters 

Smith, E. L 

Smith, Rev. George N ... 

Smith, Dr. George O 

Smith, Haden Patrick 

Smith, Hamilton, jr 

Smith, Henry K 

Smith, H. L 

Smith, Harmon M 

Smith, Howard D 

Smith, Isaac H 

Smith, Dr. J. Bryant 

Smith, J. C --. 

Smith, J. Edwards 

Smith, John M 

Smith, J. Metcalf 

Smith, Dr. J. W 

Smith. Rev. L. M. S 

Smith, M. D.-.. 

Smith, Mrs. M. D 

Smith, Dr. N. D 

Smith, Rufus 

Smith, Sydney 

Smith, Rev. S. U 

Smith, Rev. W 

Smurr, Dr. T. A 

Smyser, Dr. B. R 

Smyser, Dr. H 

Snell, Prof. E. S 

Snow, Prof. F. H 

Snyder, James A 

Soule, Prof. W 

Soule, W. L. G 

Southworth, N. C 

Spauldiug, Dr. Abirara. . . 

Spaulding, S. C 

Spates, Samuel 

Speer, Dr. Alex. M 

Spencer, Miss Anna 

Spencer, Edward E 

Spencer, Rev. D. B 

Spencer, E. S 

Spencer, W. C 

Spera, W. H 

Sperry, M 

Spooner, E ,-.. 

Spooner, Dr. S 

Spratt, Dr. W. W 

Springer, Rev. Fr 

Squier, H 

Stagg, T. G 

Stalnaker, J. W 

Stanford, Colonel J. R... 

Stanton, Fred. J 

Staj'man, Dr. J 

Stebbins, George H 



Nebraska. 

Michigan. 

Illinois. 

Ohio. 

Maryland. 

Massachusetts. 

New York. 

JIassachusetts. 

Michigan. 

Illinois. 

New York. 

Indiana. 

Illinois. 

Minnesota. 

Michigan. 

Maine. 

Illinois. 

North Carolina, 

Ohio. 

Mississippi. 

Missouri. 

New York. 

New York. 

Michigan. 

California. 

California. 

Arkansas. 

New Hampshire 

Iowa. 

Alabama. 

Pennsylvania. 

Ohio. 

Pennsylvania. 

Pennsylvania. 

Massachusetts. 

Kansas, 

Oregon. 

New York. 

Kansas. 

Michigan. 

Illinois. 

Illinois. 

Minnesota. 

Pennsylvania. 

Pennsylvania. 

Virginia. 

Minnesota. 

Wisconsin. 

Illinois. 

Pennsylvania. 

Ohio. 

Ohio. 

New York. 

Indiana & Ohio 

Arkansas. 

Michigan. 

Maryland. 

Virginia. 

Georgia. 

Colorado. 

Kansas. 

Oregon. 



* Peceased.. 



LIST OF METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVERS. 99 

List of meteorological observers, d'C. — Continued. 



Name. 


State. 


Name. 


State. 


Stebbins, Richard 

Steed F 


Iowa. 

Iowa. 

Florida. 

Michigan. 

Maryland. 

Minnesota. 

Missouri. 

Maryland. 

Wisconsin. 

Iowa. 

New Granada. 

Texas. 

Maine. 

New Hampsliire. 

Pennsylvania. 

Tennessee. 

Pennsylvania. 

Pennsylvania. 

Tennessee. 

Michigan. 

New Jersey. 

Pennsylvania. 

Michigan. 

Minnesota. 

Kansas. 

Missouri. 

Michigan. 

Michigan. 

Maine. 

Michigan. 

Iowa. 

New York. 

Wiscocsin. 

W'isconsin. 

Ohio. 

Nova Scotia. 

West Virginia. 

Missouri. 

Wisconsin. 

Ohio. 

South Carolina. 

Missouri. 

Maryland. 

Indiana. 

Illinois and I^y. 

New York. 

Washington Ter. 

New York. 

La. and Miss. 

New York. 

Pennsylvania. 

New York. 

Illinois. 

Massachusetts. 

Ohio. 

Wisconsin. 

"J'cnncssee. 

Virginia. 

Pennsylvania. 

New York. 

Iowa. 

Louisiana. 


Taylor, Dr. M. K 

Taylor, Rev. R. T 

Tcele, Rev. A. K 

Tenbrock, J. W 


Michigan. 
Pennsylvania. 


Sieele Hon. Anf ■ .... 


La. and Mass. 




Indiana. 


Steiner, Dr. Lewis F 

Stephens, Prof. A. M 


Terry, Charles C 

Tew, Captain C. C 

Thatcher, A. E 


Massachusetts. 
South Carolina. 
New York. 


Stephen.son, Rev. James . . 
Sterling J. W 


Thiekstun, T. F 

Thick.stun, T. F 

Thomas, Mrs. W. S 

Thompson, A. H 

Thompson, Rev. D 

Thompson, D. P 

Thompson, Rev. E 

Thompson, E. P 

Thompson, George W 

Thompson, H 


Minnesota. 

Pennsylvania. 

Illinois. 


Stern, Jacob T 


Sternbcrgh, W. II 

Ste%'ens, Henuell 

Stevens, Dr. J. L 

Stevens, Linus . 


Illinois. 
Ohio. 
Vermont. 
Ohio. 




Illinois. 


Stewart, Prof. A. P 

Stewart F L 


New Jersey. 
Louisiana. 


Stewart, Thomas H 

Stewart, W. M 


Thompson, Prof. 11. A... 
Thompson, Mrs. Phoebe.. 

Thompson, R. O 

Thompson, Prof. Zadok.. 
Thomson, Prof. S. H .... 

Thornton, Miss E. E 

Thornton, Dr. S. C 

Thorp, Ilotn-y W 

Tidswell, Miss Mary A .. 

Tingley, Prof. Joseph 

Tirrell, Dr. N. Q 

Titcomb, J. S 


Ohio. 
Vermont. 


Stockwell. George A 

Stokes, H. A 


Nebraska. 
Vermont. 


Stokes, William A 

Stone, Isaac ... . 


Indiana. 
New Jersey. 
New Jersey. 


Stouffer, And 


Stowell, T. B 


Md. and Penn. 


Straetmans, H. I 


Missouri. 


Strang, J.J 

Streng, L. II 


Indiana. 
Massachusetts. 


Strickland, L. S. 


Illinois. 




Titus, H. W 


New York. 




Titze, H. A 


Illinois. 




Toby, James IC. 


Vermont. 




Tolman,*J. W 


Illinois. 


Struthers, R. H 

Stuart, E. W 


Tolman, Rev. Marcus A.. 
Tompkins, W 


Pennsylvania. 
New York. 


Stuart, Prof. A. P. S 

Stumps, S.J ......... 


Tooker, Nathan C 

Tourtellot, Dr. L. A 

Tower, James M 

To\ver.s, M. H 

Townsend. Nathan 

Towson, J. W 


Pennsylvania. 
New York. 


Stuntebeck, F. II 

Stnntz, G. R 


New Yofk. 
Wisconsin. 


Stuver, A. S 


Iowa. 


Suter, Captain C. R 

Sutherland, Norris 

Sutton, Rev. A 


Ohio. 


Tracy, George H 

Tracy, James E 


Pennsylvania. 
Pennsylvania. 
Pennsylvania. 
Ohio. 


Sutton Dr G 


Swain, Dr. John ... 


Treat, Samuel W 

Tremblcy, Dr. J. B 

Trevor, James B 

Trible, Miss Anna C 

Trivett, Walter M 

Trowbridge, David 

Troy, Dr. M 


Swan, Caleb 


Ohio. 


Swan, James G 

Swart, Flaren V. 


New York. 
Illinois. 


Swazey, C. B 


California. 


Swift, Lewis 


New York. 


Swift, Dr. Paul 


Alabama. 


Sylvester, Dr. E. Ware... 
Talcott, H 


True, H. A 

*Tuck, Dr. W.J 

Tucker, Edward T 

Tuckerman, L. B 

Tuoiney, Prof. M 

TurubuU, Lieut. C. N...- 


Ohio 
Tiunicssec. 


Tappiin, Eugene 

Tap|)au, E. T 

Tate, And 


ISLassachusetts. 

Ohio. 

A labama. 


Tayloo, E. T 


Michigan. 
Indiana. 




Virginia. 


.Taylor, .Joseph W 

Taylor, Prof. K. M 

Taylor, L. B 


Turner, T. A 

Tutwiler, H 

Tweedy, D.H 


Texas. 

Alabama. 

Ohio. 



* Decease d. 



100 LIST OF METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVERS. 

List of meteorological observers, &c. — Continued. 




Twiss, Thomas S 

United States consul 

Ufford, Rev. John 

Underwood, D 

Underwood, Colonel D .. 

Upshaw, G. W 

United States engineers . . 

Vagnier, Thomas 

Valentine, John 

Valentine, Felipe 

Van Blaseom, J 

Van Buren, Jarvis 

Van Doren, A 

Van Home, F. B 

Vankekle, L 

Vankirk,W.J 

Vankirk, W. J 

Vankleek, Rev. R. D .... 

Van Nostrand, J 

Van Ordeu,W 

Van Vorhees, A 

Von Frantzius, Dr. A . - . 

Verrill,G.W.,jr^ 

Vertrees, John E 

Vincent, J. H 

Vogel,C 

Waddell, William H 

Wade, Edward 

Wade,F.S 

Wadey, H 

Wadsworth, A. S 

Wadsworth, General P 

Wagner, W.H 

Wainwright, Elmore 

Waite,M.C 

Wakeley, C.C 

Walker, David, M.D 

Walker, J.P 

Walker, Mrs. Mary A 

Walker, Mrs. Octavia C . . - 

Walker, R.L 

Walker.S.C 

Wallace, Samuel J 

Wallace, Colonel W 

Waller.R. B 

W^alsb, Stephen ■ 

Walter, Dr. James 

W^alton, Joseph P 

Ward,Rev.L.F 

Ward, Prof. W. H 

Warder, A. A 

Warder,R.B 

Waring, Prof. C. B 

Vv'arne, Dr. George 

Warren, James H 

Warren, James H 

Washburn, D 

Vv'ashington, L 

Watkins, W.D :.. 

Watson, George 

Wattersou, H.R 

Wattles, Miss Celestia . . . 



Nebraska. 

Bahamas. 

Iowa. 

Vermont. 

Wisconsin. 

Virginia. 

Michigan. 

Indiana. 

Indiana. 

Costa Rica. 

Maine. 

Georgia. 

Virginia. 

Indian Territory. 

Delaware. 

Alabama. 

Missouri. 

New York. 

Texas. 

Michigan. 

Minnesota. 

Costa Rica. 

Maine. 

Missouri. 

Mississippi. 

Missouri. 

Mississippi. 

Ohio. 

Texas. 

Iowa. 

New York. 

Maine. 

Oregorr, 

Michigan. 

Wisconsin. 

New York. 

Vancouver's isl 

Delaware. 

Kentucky. 

Michigan. 

Pennsylvania, 

Pennsylvania. 

Illinois. 

South Cai^olina. 

Alabama. 

Minnesota. 

Kansas. 

Iowa. 

Ohio. 

Wisconsin. 

Ohio. 

Ohio. 

New York. 

Iowa. 

New York. 

Iowa. 

Pennsylvania. 

Wisconsin. 

Ohio. 

New Jersey. 

Ohio, 

Kansas. 



Wattles,J.O 

Weast, J.W 

Weatherford, John M... 

Webb, Miss G 

Webb, Dr. Robert D.... 

Weber, P 

Webster, Prof. N, B.... 

Weeks, James A 

Weir, A. D 

Weiser, R 

Wellford, B. R 

Wells, C. B 

Wells, J. Carson 

Wells, W 

West, Edmxind 

West, E. W I Ohio. 

West, L. W Wisconsin 

W^est, Dr. N. P 

West, Silas 

Westbrook, Samuel W 

AVestdahl, F 

Westmoreland, J. G 

Wetherill, Prof 

Wheaton, Alex. Camp . . . 
Wbeaton, Mrs. Daniel D. 

Wheeler, B, J 

Wheeler, John T 

Whelpley, Miss Flor'e E, 
Whelpley, Miss Helen I.. 
Whelpley, Dr. Thomas.. . 
Whipple, Capt. A. W.... 

Whitaker, B 

Whitcomb, George 

Whitcomb, L. F I Massachusetts. 

White, Prof, Aaron New York. 



Kansas, 

Arkansas, 

Missouri. 

Mich, and Ind, 

Alabtima, 

Missouri, 

Virginia «fcN, C. 

Pennsylvania, 

Pennsylvania, 

Pennsylvania. 

Virginia, 

Nebraska, 

Virginia. 

Missouri. 

Ohio. 



Texas, 

Maine, 

North Carolina. 

Alaska Ter, 

Georgia, 

New York. 

Iowa & Mon. T. 

luwa, 

Vermont. 

New Hampshire. 

Michigan, 

Michigan, 

Michigan. 

Michigan. 

Illinois, 

Missouri, 



White, Bela 
White, Prof, J. B.. 

White, Peter 

White, Dr, W. T.. 
Whitehead, W. A.. 

Whitfield, E 

Whiting, Robert C 

Whitiog, William H 

Whitlock, James H 

Whitner, B. F 

Wiiitney, Miss L. J 

Whittlesey, C. S 

Whittlesey, S, H 

Wickline, Thomas J 

Wielaud, C 

Wieland, H : 

Wiessuer, J 

Wiggin, Andrew 

Wilbur, B,F 

Wild, Rev, Edward P.... 
Wilkinson, C,H.,M,D... 

Wilkinson, John R 

*Wiilard, J. F 

Willet, Prof. J. E 

Williams, B. C 

Williams, Ed. F 

Williams, H. B 



Nebraska. 

South Carolina. 

Michigan. 

New Grenada. 

Now Jersey. 

Minnesota. 

New Hampshire, 

Wisconsin. 

California. 

Florida. 

Georgia, 

Michigan. 

Michigan, 

Virginia, 

Minnesota. 

Minnesota, 

Dist, Columbia. 

New Hampshire, 

Maine. 

Massachusetts. 

Texas. 

Ohio. 

Wisconsin. 

Georgia. 

Illinois, 

Tennessee, 

Iowa, 



Deceased. 



LIST OF METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVERS. 
List of meteorological observers, d:c. — Contiuiied. 



101 



Name. 



Williams, Prof. J. R 

Williams, Prof. L. D 

WiUi.uns, Prof. M. G 

Williams. Dr. P. O 

Williams, Rev. R. G 

Williams, Rev. S. R 

Williams, Prof. Wm. D.. 

Willis, Heury 

Willis, O. R 

Willis, P. L 

Wills, J. C 

Wilsou, G. W., jr 

Wilson, Joseph A 

Wilson, Dr. J. B 

Wilson, Prof. J. H 

Wilson, Lavallette 

Wilson, P. S 

Wilson, Prof. W. C 

Wilson, Rev. W. D 

Wilson, W. W 

Winchell, Prof. A 

Win JIp, Isaac E 

Winer, M. E 

WinjTcr, Martin 

Winkler, Dr. C 

Wise, John 

Wislizenus, Dr. A 

Withrow, Thomas F 

Witter, D. K 

Woodbri'lge, W , 

Woodbury, C. E 

Woodbury, C. W , 

Wood, Samuel 

Wood, S. B 

Woodbridge, W 

Woodin, S. F -. 




Pennsylvania. 

Pennsylvania. 

Ky. & Ohio. 

New York. 

N. Y. & Conn. 

Kentucky. 

Georgia. 

Maine. 

N. Y. & N. J. 

Oregon. 

Virginia. 

Missouri. 

Missouri. 

Maine. 

Ohio. 

Massachusetts. 

Missouri. 

Pennsylvania. 

New York. 

Pennsylvania. 
Ala.& Michigan 

Indiana. 

Vermont. 

Ohio. 

Wisconsin. 

Pennsylvania. 

Missouri. 

Ohio. 

Iowa. 

Indiana. 

Minnesota. 

Minnesota. 

New Jersey. 

Ohio. 

Indiana. 

New York, 




Woodruff, E. N 

Woodruff, L 

Woods, W 

Woodard, C. S..... 

Woodard,C. S 

Woodward . Lewis 

Wood worth, Dr. A 

Woodworth, Samuel 

Woolsey, Dr. W. W 

Wooster. C. A 

Wormley, Theo. G 

Wray, A.lex 

Wright,, Dr. Daniel F 

Wright, E. M 

Wyman, A. H 

Wyrick, M. L 

Yale, Walter D 

Yellowby, Prof. C. W.... 

Yeomans, W. G 

Yoakum, F. L 

Yoakum, H 

Young, A. A 

Young, Prof. C. A 

Young, Prof. Ira 

Young, J. A 

Young, Jude. M 

Young, Mrs. L 

Younger, Armistead 

Younglove, J. E 

Zaeppfel, J 

Zahner, P 

Zealy, Joseph T 

Zeigler, Dr. A. F 

Zi mmerman, G 

Zumbrock, Dr. A 



State. 



Kentucky. 

Michigan. 

Wisconsin. 

Michigan &Iud. 

New York. 

Now York. 

Kansas. 

Iowa. 

Iowa. 

New York. 

Ohio. 

North Carolina. 

Tennessee. 

Minnesota. 

Maine. 

Missouri. 

New York. 

Texas. 

Connecticut. 

Texas. 

Texas. 

New Hampshire 

Ohio. 

New Hampshire 

South Carolina. 

New York. 

Kentucky. 

Arkansas. 

Kentucky. 

New York. 

Nebraska. 

South Carolina. 

Idaho TeiTitory, 

New York. 

Maryland. 



102 METEOROLOGICAL MATERIAL. 

METEOROLOGICAL MATERIAL CONTRIBUTED IN ADDITION TO THE REG- 
ULAR OBSERVATIONS, DURING THE YEAR 1808. 

AcacUmie Imperiale de Lyon. — Memoires do I'Academie Imperiale des 
Sciences, Belles-Lettres et Arts de Lyon, classe des sciences, tome seizieme, 
Lyon, 1866-67, 8vo., 446 pages. [Contains: Observations Meteorolog-iques faites 
k 9 lieures du matin a I'observatoire de Lyon du ler Decembre 1865, an ler 
Decembre 1866, par M. Aime Drian, sous la direction de M. Lafon, professenr 
a la Faculte des Sciences et directeur de I'observatoire, 26 pp. Rcsultats de la 
nouvelle serie d'observations ozonometriques faites par MM. le Doctenr Lembert 
et F. Rassinier, durant I'annee 1866, 32 pp. Classification des pbenomenes 
produits par I'electricite meteorique dans le bassin du Rhone et aux alentours, 
par M. J. Fournet, president de la commission des Orages, lue dans la seance 
du 6 Mars 1867, 122 pp.j 

Aguilar, F. C. — Boletino Meteorologico del observatorio del Colegio Nacional 
de Quito, dirigido por los padres de la Compania de Jesus, segundo auo 1866, 
F. C. Aguilar, S. J., Quito, 1868, 36 pages, 8vo. 

Asiatic Society of Bengal. — Journal, Part II, No. II, 1868, containing abstract 
of the results of meteorological observations taken at the surveyor general's office, 
Calcutta, September, 1866, to June, 1867, inclusive ; also taltles of mean 
monthly readings of the barometer reduced to freezing point, for 10 years, from 
1856 to 1865, and of barometric curve and registered rainfall. 

JBache, B. M. — Notes on the climate of San Francisco, California, and table 
of temperature. 

BerJcey, W. H. — Meteorological record kept at Ossawatomie, Kansas, during 
the month of March, 1868. 

Boarchnan, G-. A. — Meteorological observations made during the month of 
January, 1868, at Green Cove Spring, Florida. 

Boerner, Charles G. — Account of the meteoric shower of November 13 and 
14, observed at Yevay, Indiana. 

Bnihns, Br. C. — Resultate aus den Meteorologischen Beobachtungen ange- 
stellt an mehreren Orten im Konigreich Sachsen in den Jahren 1826 bis 
1861, und an den fiinfundzwanzig Koniglichen Sachsischen Stationen im Jahre 
1866. Nach den monatlichen Zusammenstellungen im Statistischen Bureau des 
Koniglichen Ministeriums des Innern, bearbeitet von Dr. C. Bruhns, Dii-ector 
der Sternwarte und Professor der Astronomie in Leipzig, Dritter Jahrgang, 
Leipzig, 1868, 4to, 136 pp. 

Bush, Richard J. — Meteorological observations made during the exploration 
of the country between Okhotsk and Nicolaefsk, East Siberia, in the service of 
the Western Union Telegraph Company, October 21, 1865, to March 4, 1866. 

Chase, Pliny Earle, Philadelphia. — Curves indicating the relation of the moon 
to temperature at the surface of the earth. 

Christiania Ohservatorium. — Meteorologiske lakttagelser, 1867. 

Cornelisscn, J. B. — On the temperature of the sea near the south point of 
Africa. Royal Meteorological Institute of the Netherlands, 4to. 

Cox, Judge Hopewell. — Meteorological observations made at Hartford, Dodgo 
county, Wisconsin, from April, 1859, to September, 1862 ; copied by S. Gr. 
Lapham, for the Smithsonian lustitution. 

Bull, W. H. — Meteorological observations made at Nulato, Alaska, from 
December 1, 1866, to May 26, 1867, by W. H.Dall; also meteorological obser ^ 
vations at Unalakleet, Alaska, from October 19, 1866, to January 23, 1867, b;^ 
F. Westdahl. 

Bavis, M. J. — Observations of temperature near Glasgow Station, Amherst 
county, Virginia. 

Bestrugc, /!.— Meteorological register for the month of October, 1868, at 
Guayaquil, Ecuador. 



METEOROLOGICAL MATERIAL. 103 

Draper^ Dr. Joseph. — ^Icteoroloi^cal observations made at tlie State Lunatic 
Hospital, Worcester, Massacliusetts, during the years 1859, 1860, and 1861. 

Engineer corps, United States (irmy. — Ilorary curves at Willet's Point, New 
York, from 12 days' liourly oLservations, July 14 to July 25, 1868; 8vo, 2 pp. 

French, J. B., agent W. Lal;c C. cV IF. Manufacturing Compang, Lake Village, 
Netc Hampshire. — Tables of rainfall at Lake Villaf^e and Laconia, New Hamp- 
shire. 

Galveston Citg Hospital. — Meteorolog-ical observations made at the Galveston 
City Hospital, Galveston, Texas, during* the year 1S67, b}^ Drs. 0. H. Williin- 
son, H. A. ]\[cOoml_v, and others. 

Gcscllschaft fiir Naiur-und Ueillcunde in Dresden. — Die Vertheilungcn der 
Windstiirke in der Windrose von Dresden, von Dr. Ed. Loisler ; 8vo. 

Gibbs, George. — j^Leteorological statement for the year ending October 31, 
1868, Sitka, Alaska Ten-itory. 

Gilman, W. S., Jr. — Weather items. Palisades, Rockland countv. New York, 
1868. 

Hann, Dr. Jidius.-. — Die thennischen Verhaltnisse der Luftstromungen auf dem 
Obir (6,288 Par. Fuss) in Karnthen, mit 1 Tafel; December, 1867. 

Die Temperatur-Abnahme mit der Hohe als eiu Function der Windes- 
richtung, mit 1 Tafel ; March, 1868. 

Zur Charakteristik der Winde des adriatischen Meers, mit 1 Tafel ; 1868. 

Hart, Charles H. — 3Ieteorolf)gical register kept at Parana, South America, 
from October, 1843, to July, 1850, inclusive. 

Heis, Dr. — Wochenschrift iiir Astronomic, Meteorologie imd Geographic. 
Neue Folge, Elfter Jahrgang ; (der '' Astronomischen Unterhaltungen," 22ter 
Jahrgang.) Eedigirt von Professor Dr. Heis, in Miinster, 1868 ; (Svo, each 
number eight pages.) 

Hoff, Alexander H., Assistant Surgeon United States Army. — Meteorological 
statement for the j-ear ending October 31, 1868. Sitka, Alaska Territory-. 

Huntingdon, George C. — Meteorological tables for Kelley's island, Ohio, com- 
piled from ten years' observaticms, 1859 to 1868 inclusive. Newspaper slip. 

Third annual report of the Lake Shore Grape-growers' Association, contain- 
ing article on climatology and grape culture, by George C. Huntington. 8vo. 

Institut Egypticn. — Memoires ou travaux originaux ]iresentes et lus a I'lnaiti- 
tut Egypticn, public's sous les auspices de S. A. Mahommed-Said, Vice-E.oi 
d'Egypte, sous la direction de ]\L le Docteur B. Schnepp, Secretaire de I'Institut 
Egypticn. Tome premier. Paris, 1862, 4to, 776 pages. [Contains : Etudes 
9ur le climat de I'Egyjjte, par le Docteiu'B. Schnepp, 192 pages. Du Khamsiu 
et de ses elFets ; du Lie retrait, par M. Gregoire, luembre de IMnstitut Egypticn, 
14 pages.] (The Khamsin is a desert wind called elsewhere Simoon.) 

JeUnclc, C. — Zeitschrift der osterreichischen Gesellschaft fiir Meteorologie. 
Redigirt von C. Jelinek und J. Hann. 8vo, Vienna, published twice a month 

Jourdan, C. H,, Frof. — Meteorological curves and summary of observatiouk' 
for 1868, at Mount St. Mary's College, Emmettsburg, Maryland. 

Kuiscrlich-KiJniglichc Central- Anstcdtfllr Meteorologie and Erdmagnetismns. — 
Jahrbiicher der K. K. Central-Anstalt fur Meteorologie und Erdniagnetismus, voc 
Carl Jelinek, Director, und Carl Fritsch, Vice-Director. Neue Folge, II Band 
Jahrgang 1865. Der gaiizen Reihe Xter Baud. AVien 1867, 4to, 212 jj^ges 

Jahrb'ucher, Wien. 1868, 4to, 205 pp. 

Klugc, J. P., M. D. — ?Jeteorological observations made at As}»inwall, U. S 
C, from the week ending January 18, 1868, to week ending January 2, 1869 

Koninklijk Ncdcrlandsch Mcteorolog. InstiUmt. — Jaarboek voor 1867. Partp 
1 and 2, oblong 4to, pp. 244 and 114. 

Koninklijk Ncdcrlandsch Mcteorolog isch Instilunt. — ]\Ieteorologische Waar- 
nenniigin in Nederland en zijne bezittingen, en Afwijkingen van Temperatuur 
eu Barometerstand op vele Plaatsen in Europa. Uitgcgevcn door Let Koninklijk 



104 METEOEOLOGICAL MATERIAL. 

NederlaHclscli Meteorologiscli Instituut. 1864. Utrecht, 1865. Obloug 4to, 308 
pages. 

Lewis, Charles H. — Thermometrical rocord at Elizaloetlitou, Carter county, 
East Tenuessee, for the month of February, 1868. 

Leivis, Dr. James.— Hourly records for the year 1868, by his self-record- 
ing barometer and thermometer, and reductions of the same, at Mohawk, New 
York. 

Little, Fran];. — Thermometrical observations at Kalamazoo, Michigan, during 
May, June, and Jul}^, 1868. 

Livings, B. C — Meteorological register at Smithficld, Wabash county, Min- 
nesota, during the month of January, 1868. 

Lupton, N. T. — Abstract of meteorological register for 1868, at the Southern 
University, Greensboro, Alabama. (Newspaper slip.) 

Macgregor, G. eJ., M. A. — Abstract of meteorological observations at Strat- 
ford, Canada, for the year 1867. (Newspaper slip.) 

MacJcet/, liobert. — Thermometrical record for 3n\j, 1868, at Island creek, 
Jcfl'erson county, Ohio. 

Magrwtic Observatory, Toronto, Canada. — General meteorological registers 
for the year 1867. 8vo, 6 pp. 

Marsh, Bosu'ell. — Summary of meteorological observations during the year 
1868, at Steubenville, Ohio. 

Mcrriam, C C. — Meteorological report for the year 1868, at Locust Grove, 
Lewis county. New York. 

Meteorological Society, (British.) — Proceedings of the Meteorological Society, 
edited by James Glaisher, esq , F. R. S., president. 8vo. London, monthly. 

Meteorology of England. By James Glaisher. Quarterly. 

Meteorologische Centrcdanstalt cler Schiccizerische Naturforschende Gesell- 
schaft. — Meteorolog. Beobachtungen, 1867, and January and February, 1868. 

Michigan Board of Agricidture. — Report for 1867, containing a pa[)eronthe 
influence of forest trees on agriculture, and a meteorological register for 1867, 
by Professor R. C. Kedzie, State Agricultural College. Lansing. 

Miller, Lester A. — Maxima and minima of temperature at Woodstock, Ver- 
mont, during the month of November, 1867. 

Moore, (J. B. — Thermometrical record for the month of March, 1868, at 
Bridgeton post office, near Eastville, Northampton county, Vu-ginia. 

Moidtrie, J. L. — Summary of rainfall at Union Springs, Alabama, during 
1868. 

National Military School of Medicine ofBomnania, [through the United States 
Naval Observatory, Washington.] Meteorological tables. 

Natiiraliste Canadien. — [Contains: Meteorological register at Port Neuf, Can- 
ada, for 1868.] 

Naturforschende Gesellschaft zu Gorlitz. — xi1>liandlungen der Naturforschcn- 
den Gesellscliaft zu Gorlitz. Dreizehnter Band. Gorlitz, 1868, 8vo, 296 pp, 
[Contains : Meteorologische Beobachtiuigen in Gorlitz vom 1 December, 1863, 
bis 30 ?\^ovcmber, 1866, von R. Peck. P. 125-208.] 

Norske Meteorolog ishe Lnstitut. — Norsk meteorologisk aarbog for 1867. 

Ohservatory of Upsala. — Observations meteorologiques faites a Tobserva- 
toire d' Upsala pendant les annees 1855 et 1861. 

Observatoire Boyal de BruxeUes. — Annales meteorologiques de I'observatoire 
Royal de Bruxelles, publiees, aux frais de I'etat, par le directeur A. Quetelet, 
Premiere Annee. Bruxelles, 1868, 4to, 96 pp. 

Fahn, Swante. — Meteorological registers kept at-Austin, Texas, from 1860 to 
1864, inclusive. 

Parvin, Prof T. S. — Summary of meteorological observations at Iowa City, 
Iowa, during the year 1868. 8vo, 2 pp. 



METEOROLOGICAL MATERIAL. 105 

Paffison, II. A. — Report of meteoroloi^ical <)l)scrvations at Muskegon, Miclu 
gan, during part of the month of August, 1868. 

Physlkalischcr Vcrcin. — Jahresbericht des l^hysikalischen Verehis zu Frank- 
furt am Main, fiir das Rechnungsjahr 18GG-'67, Svo., 120 pages. [Contains : 
Vermischte Meteorologische Notizen, von Professor Dr. Op})el, 19 pp. Ueber 
tagliche Barometerschwankungen und das Gcsetz der taglichen Drehung des 
Windcs, von Dr. Berger, 20 pp. Meteorologische Notizen vom Jahre 1SG7, 
7 pp. Wasserhohe des Mains vom Jahre 1867, 1 page* Gewonuene Ergeb- 
nisse aus den im Jahre 1867 angestellten meteorologischen Bcobachtungen des 
Physikalischen Vcreins, 4 pp. Graphische Witteruugstabello des Jahres 1867.] 

Poe//, M. Andre. — Bibliographie Cychmicpie, deuxieme edition, Paris, 1866. 

" Generalites sur le cliraat du Mexique, et sur reclipse totale de lune du 30 
Mars dernier," Paris, August, 1866. 

''Sur Finverpion diurne ot nocturne de la temperature jusqu'aux limites do 
I'atmosphcre, et a sa repartition de Tliorizon au zenith," January, 1865. 

" Sur hx non-existence sous le ciel du Mexique, do la grande pluie d'etoiles 
filantes de Novembre, 1866, et du retour pt^riodique du mois d'Aout," 1867. ' 

" Sur la non-existence sous le ciel austral des retours piiriodiques des etoilcs 
filantes, et snr leur extinction gradueilo du pole nord a I'cquateur," October, 1865. 

" Description d'un ozonographe et d'un actinographe destinfes a enregistrer, de 
demi-heure a demi-heure I'ozone atmospherique, et Taction chimique de la 
lumiere ambiante," December, 1865. 

'■'■ Kemanpies sur les colorations ozonoscopiques obtenues a I'aide du rtiactif de 
Jaine (de Sedan,) et sur I'echelle ozonomtitriqiie de M. Berigny," October, 1867. 

''Travaux sur la niettiorologie, la physique du globe en general, et sur la clima- 
tologie de Tile de Cuba et des Antilles," October, 1861. 

Appel aux nations Hispano-Americaines. (Meteoroh)gicnl circular.) 

Pratt, W. H — Account of meteoi'ic shower observed on the night of Novem- 
ber 13 and 14, 1868, at Davenport, Iowa. . 

Badcliffe Observatory. — Results of astronomical and meteorological observa- 
tions made at the Radclitfe Observatory, 1865. 

Bavenel, T. P. — Meteorological Journal for the year 1860, kept at St. John's, 
Berkeley parish, South Carolina, for the Black Oak Agricultural Society, by T. 
P. Ravenel, secretary. Pamphlet, Svo, 15 pp. Charleston, 1861. 

Pay, Dr. John D. — Observations at Paris, Kentucky, during January to July, 
1855. 

Peal Acadcm'm de Ciencias, cf'C, Habana. — Anales. (Containing meteorolog- 
ical registers.) 

PecU Ohservatorio de Madrid. — Observaciones Meteorolugicas effectuadas en el 
Real Ohservatorio de Madrid, desde 1° de Diciembre de 1865, al 30 de Noviem- 
bredel866. Madrid, 1867. 16mo. 175 pp. 

Informe del Director del Real Observatorio astronomico y meteorologico do 
Madrid al Excmo. Sr.Comisario Regio del mismo establecimiento. Madrid, 1867. 
16mo. 72 i)p. 

Resumen de las 01)servaciones Sleteorologicas efectuadas en la Peninsula desdo 
el 1° do Diciembre de 1865, al 30 do Noviembre de 1866. Madrid, 1867. 16mo. 
364 pp. 

P. Osservatorio di Palermo. — Bulletino 3Ieteorologico del R. Osscrvatorio di 
Palermo. (Estratto del Giorn. di Scienze Naturali ed Econ.) 4to, monthly. 

Pijks Ohservatorium, Leiden. — Ondersockingen ombrent den Gang van het 
Hooiduurwcrk des Stern wacht to Leiden de Pendule. Nohwii No. 17. Door 
F. Kaiser. 

Poclie, Edouard. — Recherches siu- les Offuscations du Soleil ct les Mdtdorca 
Cosmiques. Paris, 1868. 

Poyal Af/riculfural Society of England. — Tiie Jouiual of the Royal Agricul- 
tural Society of England. Second series, Volume IV. London, 1868. Svo, 



108 METEOROLOGICAL MATERIAL. 

294 pages. [Contains: Meteorology for tlie six months ending December 31, 
1867 — 5 pp. On tlie Temperature of the Sea and Its Influcaice on the Climate 
and Agriculture of the British Isles j by Nicholas Whitley, F. 31. S. — 31 pp. 

Biiffner, W. H. — Weatliei- notes taken at Tribrook farm, one and a half mile 
southwest of Lexington, Virginia, during the years 1867 and 18G8. 

Sawijer, Henry, tlnitcd Siates consul. — Meteorological register at Paramaribo, 
Dutch Guiana, from January 12, 1868, to January 3, 1869. (Newspaper slips.) 
Scolci Natmialo de Ifedicina. — Tablou General de Observatiunele Meteori 
ologice ale Scolei Nationale de-Medicina facute la Sptalul militar din Bucurest- 
in Anul 1863. Directorul scholei, Davila. observator : A, Leasman. (One large 
lithograph sheet of tables and diagrams. Similar sheets for 1864, 1865, 1866, 
1867^) 

Scottish Meteorological Socieiy. — Journal of the Scottish Meteerological Soci- 
ety. Published cpiarterly. 8vo. Edinburgh. 

Scuddcr, S. H. — Meteorological observations taken during a trip to Cuba and 
the Isle of Pines in the spring of 1864. 

Shepherd, Sfiiilcy. — Abstract of observations for each month of the year 1868, 
at Hennepin, Illinois. 

Sisson, Ixodman. — A tal»le showing the temperature of the seasons for the three 
years from December, 1864, to November, 1867, inclusive, at North Abingdon, 
Luzerne county, Pennsylvania. 

Snuheart, Dr. C. F. — Meteorological observations made at Houston, Texas, 
by Dr. A. M. Potter, from September, 1862, to October, 1865. (Dr. Potter died 
October 10, 1865, and this register was presented to Dr. Smiheart by his family.) 
Societe Meteorologlque de France. — Nouvelles Mdteorologiques, publices sons 
les auspices de la Societe Meteorologique de France. 8vo. Paris. (Issued 
monthly.) Annuaire 1866, 1867. 

Societa Beale di Napoli. — Rendiconto dell' Academia delle Soienze Fisiche e 
Matematiche. April, 1865, to May, 1867. Quarto, monthly. [April, 1865, con- 
tains: "^uovo anemografo elettro-magnetico. Memorio del Socio Ordinario L. 
Palmieri ;" pp. 105-106. June, 1865: '' Tremblement do terre de 1862 dans 
les environs du Lao Baikal, (Siberie Orientale, ) par P. Kropotkino et A. Pali- 
bine;" pp. 181-195. August, 1865: ^'Se le osservazioni di meteorologica elet- 
trica fatte con I'elettronietro bifiliare e col condutore mobile siano comparabili ; 
nota del Socio Ordinario L. Palmieri;" pp. 244-249. September, 1865: ''Pro- 
cella magnetica contemporanea all' apparizione delle stelle cadenti ; nota del 
L. Palmieri;" pp. 277-282. January, 1866: '' Sull' elettrografo atmosferico 
del Thomson; nota del L. Palmieri;" pp. 19-21. April, 1866: *' Intorno alia 
determinazione della vera direzione del vento ; nota del L. Palmieri ;" pp. 
104-105. '■'' Sopra nn nuovo metodo ordinato alio studio dell' elettricita atmos- 
ferica proposto dal Signor Monnet alia Societa delle Scienze Industriali di Lione ; 
nota del L. Palmieri;" pp. 124-125. August, 1866 : "Dell' ozono e dell' anti- 
ozono ; nota L. Palmieri ;" pp. 268-270. September, 1866 : " Sul ricorso delle 
stelle cadenti nell' Agosto del 1866 ; nota L. Palmieri;" pp. 293-294. "Sulla 
pressione media del barometro in Napoli, dedotta dalle osservazioni del Prof. 
Faustino Brioschi ; communicazione del Socio Ordinario A. de Gasparis ;" pp. 
300-304. January, 1867 : " Sulla pioggia di stelle cadenti prevista pel 14 
Novembre del passato anno; communicazione del L. Palmieri;" p. 18.] (Each 
monthly number also contains daily notices of the weather and meteorological ; 
observations made at Naples.) 

Societa Beale di Napoli. — Atti dell' Accademia delle Scienze Fisiche e Mate- 
matiche, Vol.11. Napoli, 1865. 4to. 602 pp. [Contains: " Sopra uu nuovo 
udometro autografico" — 2 pp.; " Sull' ozono atmosferico nuove indagini" — 
16 pp.; "Del periodo diurno dell' elettricita atmosferica e delle sue attenenze 
con quello delle correnti telluriche" — 4 pp. ; '' Nuovo anemografo elettro-mag- 
netico " — 4 pp. These four articles are aU by Luigi Palmieri.] 



METEOROLOGICAL MATERIAL. 107 

Stevens, Linus. — Abstract of rainfall, &c., at Clareriiont, New nainp.sliire, 
for six niontlis eiuliug April 30, 1SG8. 

Stonyhurst Obserraton/. — Meteorological repoiis for tlio years 1860, ISGl, 
1862, 1863, 1864, 1865, 1866, and 1867. 

Stumps, S. J. — Meteorological observations made in Hampshire county, West 
Virginia, from July 1, 1868, to January 1, 1869. 

lltornton. Dr. — Summary of meteorological observations taken at Morpetli, 
New South Wales, during the year 1865. 

Trcnthlcy, Dr. J. B. — Meteorological synopses for the years 1865, 1866, and 

1867, from observations made at Toledo, Ohio. Svo, 12 jjp. each. 

United States Navcd Observatory. — T-he November meteors of 1868. Svo, 
10 pp. and chart. 

Von Frant^ius, Dr. A. — Gaceta Oficial, San Jose, Costa Rica, containing 
abstract of meteorology of San Jose for the year 1867. 

Von Octtingen, Dr. Arthur. — IMeteorologische Beobachtungen angestcllt in 
Dorpat im Jahre 1867. Iledigirt und bearb(?itet von Dr. Arthur von Oettingen, 
Professor der Physik an der Kaiserlicheu Uuiversitilt Dorpat. Svo. Dorpat, 

1868. 118 pp. 

Waller, Bobert B. — Meteorological observations made at Greeuesboro', Greene 
county, Alabama, during the year 1862. 

Walton, J. P. — Account of meteers, November 13, 1868. (Newspaper slip.) 

WJiitcomb, George. — Abstract of meteorological record kept near Charleston, 
Mississippi county, Missouri, from, January to September, 1.868, inclusive. 

Williams, B. C. — Thermometrical record for the month of February, 1868, at 
Ridge farm, Vermillion county, Illinois. 

Williams, S. B. — Abstract of obsei'vations for each month dming the year 
1868, at Lexington, Kentucky. 

Wright, Captain J. W. A. — Facts in Meteorology. (Separate papers pub- 
lished in the Alal)ama Beacon, Greensboro', Alabama. Newspaper slips.) 

Ztlechn, Jose C. — Observationes meteorologicas hechas en la ciudad de San 
Jose (Costa Rica) durante el auo de 1868. (i\Iade at the Oficina Central do 
Estadistica and published in the Gaceta Oficial, San Jose.) 

TJnlcnown. — Abstract of meteorological register kept at Fort Yuma, California, 
during the year 1867. 

Miscellaneous meteorological notes, Philadelphia. 



REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE. 



Washingto^t, January 14, 1S69. 
The Executive Committee of the Suiithsoniao Institution respectfnlty submits 
the following- statements in relation to its invested capital, the receipts and 
expenditures during- the year 1868, and an estimate of receipts and proposed 
appropriations for 1869 : 

CAPITAL IXVESTED. 

The Smithson fund in the Treasury of the United States on the 
1st of January, 1869, remains as stated in the last annual 
report $650, 000 00 

And in Virginia State 6 per cent, bonds $53, 500 

With coupon bonds issued for unpaid interest to Jan- 
uary, 1807 19, 260 

72, 760 

The value of which at the present time ma^^be estimated at 55 per 

cent, on the par value 40, 018 00 

Total invested capital 690, 018 00 



KECEIPTS I2f 1868. 

Interest from the Treasurer of the United States on $650, 000 

at 6 per cent, for the year ending 31st December S39, 000 00 

Premium on sale of gold 14, 527 50 

Interest on Virginia 6s, old bonds, 2 per cent, on $53,500 for the 

first six months of 1868, less brokerage 1, 067 33 

From sales of publications 385 52 

From sales of old and useless material 188 88 

Repayment of expenses of explorations from parties co-operating 

with the Institution 698 54 

Eepayment for freights incurred on account of parties sending 

books to foreign libraries 100 00 

Cash balance in bank, January, 1868 11, 485 56 

Amount available for 1868 67, 453 33 



In addition to this amount the Institution received from, and accounted for, to the 
Department of the Interior, the sum of $5,116 31, appropriated by Congress for 
the presei-vation and care of the property in the museum collected by govern- 
ment exploring expeditions. Of this sum $4,000 was the appropriation for the 
year 1868-69, and $1,116 31 the balance of the previous year's appropriation. 

The State of Virginia paid during the year 2 per cent, on its old bonded 
debt for the first six months, leaving 1 per cent, still due for that period, 
claimed to be payable by Western Virginia, as a just proportion of the original 
State debt. On its new bonds, issued for coupon interest past due, nothing has 
been paid. Tlie State proposes to sell its interest in certain canals, rail and 
other roads, to liquidate this and other indebtedness, and favorable results may 
for the future be anticipated from this investn;ent. 



REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE. 109 

Statement in detail of expenditures during the year 18G8 

BUILDIXG. 

For the reconstruction of parts of tlic Imilding' 
destroyed by fire, completed in 1SG7 and paid in 
ISGS/ 818,457 20 

Repairs of other parts of the buildino- 2, 746 49 

Furniture and fixtures to meet the general wants of 

the Institution 2, 982 38 

Amount expended on the b-uilding $24, 186 07 

GENERAL EXPENSES. 

For meetings of the Board of Regents $'303 37 

Lighting the building, offices, &c 27G 35 

Warming the building, offices, &c 1, 086 50 

Postage : r. 456 89 

8tati(mery 345 92 

Printing labels, blanks, circulars, &c 189 81 

I'ools, materials for cleaning, binding records, &c., &;o. 614 70 
Salaries of secretary, chief clerk, and assistants, labor- 
ers, and contingent labor 9, 552 80 

Interest on temporary over-draft 72 00 



PUBLICATIOKS, rvESEARCEES, &C. 

Publishing transactions, researches, &c., for Smithso- 
nian Contributions, quarto $4, 633 09 

Miscellaneous collections, octavo 1, 177 45 

Smithsonian reports, illustrations, stereotyping, &c., 

octavo 1, 050 75 

Meteorology, computations, &c 1, Oil 47 

Api)aratus 99 70 

Explorations, natural history, and archaeology 1, 682 57 

LIEEAEY, MUSEUM, AND EXCHANGES. 

For pui-chase of books and binding $775 42 

Literary and scientific exchanges 2, 801 84 

Assistants in n)useum, janitor, watchmen, laborers, and 
for labelling and arranging shells and ethnological 

specimens '. 3, 226 72 

Incidentals for museum — alcohol, bottles, &c 1, 488 29 

Freight on books, specimens, and other property 

received and sent away 2, 068 88 



12, 898 34 



9,G55 03 



10,361 15 



Exjienditures during the vear . 57, 1 00 59 



Deducting this amount from the receipts of the year 
and cash in bank on 1st January, 1868, as pre- 
viously stated $G7, 453 33 

Leaves a balance in bank January, 1869, of $10, 352 74 



110 EEPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE. 

EXAMLNATION OP ACCOUNTS. 

The committee Las examined 576 receipted vouchers for paj'ments made dur- 
ing the four quarters of the year 1868. Evidence of the receipt of materials 
and property, and of services rendered, and payment to the claimants or legal 
representatives, was found for the whole amount expended during the year. An 
examination of the quarterly accounts current, l)ank-l)oolv, check-book, and 
ledger showed that the payments were made as required l>y the regulations pre- 
scribed by the regents; and the cash balances stated in the accounts current were 
in the authorized depository after the payment of all the quarterly accounts 
charged in the abstracts of expenditiu'cs. 

In the receipts for the year 1868, the sum of $5,116 31 is noted as hav- 
ing been received through the Department of the Interior, appropriated by Con- 
gress for the preservation and charge of its property in the museum collected by 
government explori^ag expeditions. The expenditure of this sum was made and 
accounted for in strict conformity with the financial regulations prescribed by 
the regents. 

ESTIMATED EECETPTS FOR 1869. 

• Interest on the Smithsonian fund in the treasury of the United 
States -^650,000, payable 1st Julv, 1869, and 1st January, 

1870, at 6 per cent, in gold '. $39, 000 00 

Probable premium on sale of coin 13, 000 00 

Interest on Virginia 6 per cent, stock 1, 067 00 

Sales of useless property and other incidental sotirces during the 
year , " 500 00 



Total income in 1869 53, 567 00 



APPROPKIATIOXS FOR 1869. 

It is proposed to apply the income of the year as follows : 

For general expenses. ". $15, 000 00 

Publications and researches 15, 000 00 

Library, collections for museum, and exchanges.. 10, 000 00 

Continuing the repairs of the building 5, 000 00 



45,000 00 
Leaving from the yearly income a balance of. 8, 567 00 



S53, 567 00 



It will thus be seen that the Institution has paid all its indebtedness ; pro^nded 
all needful accommodation in the gradual reconstruction of parts of its building 
destroyed by fire; published large editions of annual contributions to science; 
accumulated a saving from its income of 1868 of 810,352 74, and an estimated 
saving of $8,567 from its income of 1869 — making the sum of $18,919 74 as 
an available fund in January, 1870, to enable the Institution to conduct its opera- ' 
tions on a cash basis from the beginning of the year, and to continue and extend 
its investigations in the various branches of physical science ; at the same time 
supplying apparatus for warming the various apartments in the building. 

RICHARD DELAFIELD, 
PETER PARI^R, 

Executive Committee. 
Washii^gton, January, 14, 18.69. 



JOURNAL OF niOCEEDLNGS 



THE BOARD OF REGENTS 



SMITHSON'IAN INSTITUTIO:^. 



WAsnrN-GTOx, Jammnj 20, 1869. 

In accordance with a resolution of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian 
Institution, fixing the time of beginning of the annual session on the third 
Wednesday of January in each year, a meeting was called for this day. 

No quorum being present, the board adjourned to meet on Wednesday, 27th 
January, 1869, at 7^ o'clock. 



Washixgtox, January 27, 1869. 

A meeting of the Board of Regents was held at 7^ o'clock p. m. at the Insti- 
tution. Present, Hon. B. F. Wade, Hon. W.. P. Fessendeu, Hon. L. Trumbull, 
Hon. Gr. Davis, Hon. J. A. Garfield, Hon. J. V. L. Pruyn, Hon. R. Delalield, 
Hon. P. Parker, Rev. Dr. John Maclean, Hon. S. J. Boweu, and Professor 
Henry, the secretary'. 

Mr. Wade was called to the chair. The minutes of the last meeting were 
read and approved. 

The secretary stated that since the last sesfeion, Mr. Sayles J. Bowen had been 
elected mayor of the city of Washington, and thereby ])ecame ex-officio a mem- 
ber of the board in place of Mr. AVallach, and that Professor Agassiz's term had 
expired, but a resolution reappointing him a Regent had passed the Senate. 

General Delafield, in behalf of the Executive Committee, presented the annual 
account of receipts and expenditures for the year 1868, with estimates for the 
year 1869; which was read, and, 

On motion of Mr. Pruyn, the report was adopted. 

General Delafield also j)resented the following report relative to the Washing- 
ton city canal, which was read: 

licporf of the executive committee on a resolution of the Bcgcnfs of the Smithson- 
ian Institution on the injluences of the Washington city canal on the health of 
the population of the city, May 15, 1868.* 

The executive connnittee, to which v»as refeired the resolution of the Regents 
of the Smithsonian Institution of the 22d of April, 1868, instructing it to iiscer- 

* Senate Mis. Doc. No. 95, 40tb Congress, 2d session. 



112 PROCEEDINGS OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS. 

tain wliat measures are proposed to be taken by the city authorities of Wash- 
ington in regard to the canal, so far as concerns the Smithsonian Institution, 
has examined the subject and now report, for the information of the Regents : 

That the Washington city canal has been constructed under the authority 
granted by the following laws : 

On the 1st of May, 1802, Gongi-ess passed an act incorporating the Wash- 
ington Canal Company, to raise S80,000, and construct a canal from the Potomac 
to the Eastern Branch, to admit boats drawing three feet water to pass through 
the whole extent of said canal, with the riglit to charge and collect tolls and • 
wharfage. If not so completed within five years, it was to revert to the United 
States. 

This act seems to have expired by the failure of the company to execute the 
work, and on the 16th of February, 1809, Congress incorporated other parties, 
to raise $100,000, with the same title, to construct the canal through part of the 
city of Washington, as laid down on a plan of the city defining its limits, to 
admit of boats drawing three feet water to pass through it ; and if, at any time, 
the canal shall become obstructed so that boats and scows drawing three feet 
water cannot pass through from the Potomac to the Eastern Branch, the com- 
pany shall not collect tolls or wharfage, and all the rights under this act shall 
cease, unless the canal is completed within seven years from the passage of the 
act. 

Before the expiration of this seven years, and on the 6th of May, 1812, Con- 
gress authorized money to be raised by lottery for completing the canal, render- 
ing it navigable, and draining the marshes and low grounds contiguous thereto, 
and on the 7th of May, 1822, authority was granted by Congress to the city of 
Washington to contract with the canal company to change the direction of parts 
of the canal, to drain and dry the low grounds on the borders of Tiber creek. 

On the 20th of May, 1826, the canal company was authorized to increase the 
width of the canal along the present boundary of the Smithsonian grounds, and 
elsewhere, to 150 feet in width, and also to construct basins; and within five 
years shall construct the canal through its whole length to contain water at least 
one foot in depth at ordinary low water. 

On the 2d of May, 1831, the canal company sold all its interest to the city of 
Washington, which was conveyed b}^ a deed dated the 23d of July, 1831 ; and 
on the 31st of May, 1832, Congress confirmed this sale, and enacted that all the 
right, title, interest, pro}>erty, and estate of the Washington Canal Company are 
vested in the mayor, aldermen, and common council, for the aforesaid use, with 
the proviso, that the canal shall be finished and completed, of the breadth and 
depth and in the manner and within the time hereinafter prescribed, and not 
otherwise. The act then prescribes the width at different parts, and then that 
the canal, throughout its whole length and breadth aforesaid, and the basins, shall 
have a depth of at least four feet ■water at all times, and that the whole shall 
be walled on its sides, and made switable for steam- vessels, to be used therein, 
and finished by the Isit of March, 1833, and in default, all the rights and privi- 
leges granted by this act shall cease and determine. No tolls or wharfage were 
allowed to be charged or collected whenever the canal was so out of repair as to 
impede the free navigation with four feet water. By the same act all the right, 
title, property, interest, and estate of the United States, of, in, and to that part 
of the public reservation designated as tlie mall, was vested in the city corpora- 
tion, in fee, to be sold, and the moneys applied to the construction of the canal. 
A street of 80 feet wide on the south side, in addition to the 40 feet landing, 
was also authorized, and previous specified acts, conflicting with this act, were 
repealed. 

On the 2d of March, 1833, Congress appropriated $150,000 to aid in fulfilling 
the objects and requirements of the act of 31st of May, 1832, provided the city 
corporation relinquished all title to the land vested in it by the 8th section of 



PEOCEEDINGS OF THE BOAED OF REGENTS. 113 

the act, and all tlie riglits and privileges granted by tlie Stb, lOtli, llth, 12tli, 
13tb, and 14th sections of said act. 

On tlic 3d of ]March, 1849, Congress appropriated S20,000 for clearing out 
and deepening that portion of the canal Avhich j^asses through and along the 
public grounds, provided the city expends a like sum in cleaning out and deep- 
ening the other portions. 

On the od of INIarch, 1851, Congress appropriated S20,000 for completing, 
clearing out, and repairing that portion of the canal which passes tlu-ough and 
along the public grounds, provided the city expends a like sum in clearing and 
repairing the other portions. 

On tlie 23d of February, 1865, Congress authorized the city corporation to 
lay taxes * * to introduce the necessary sewerage and drainage facilities undei 
or upon the whole or any porti(m of any avenue, street, or alley. 

On the 16th of February, 1866, a bill was reported in the House of Repre- 
sentatives creating a sewerage commission, with power to improve and regulate 
the Washington city canal, as may be necessary; and on the 6th of March an 
amendment to the "bill of the 16th of February, 1866, was reported, limiting 
the number of commissioners to three, giving them power to adopt and lay down 
a complete and uniform plan of sewerage, as it may deem necessary and most 
advisable, with reference to the public health and general interest; the city to 
raise $150,000 to execute the work by contract, and the United States not to be 
responsible for an amount exceeding one-half the outlay or expenses incurred 
nnder this act. There was no further action on this bill or amendment. 

About the same time, to wit, on the 7th of March, 1866, the Senate of the 
United States passed a resolution requiring the appointment of a board of United 
States engineers, to report a plan for imi;)roving the canal and sewerage of the 
city. This board, on the 2d of April, 1866, made a partial report for the tem- 
porary improvement of the canal, which the city authorities adopted, and appro- 
priated $75,000 to carry into effect. 

Such is all the legislation on this subject the committee has been enabled to 
find, np to the end of the year 1867 ; from which it appears the United States 
granted to a company the right to construct the canal in question, on certain 
conditions and for specified uses; that this company sold all its rights to the 
corfjoration of the city of Washington, and the United States approved the sale 
and transfer, granted additional rights, and exacted additional facilities, limiting 
the uses to navigation })y steamers, bargee, and scows over the whole surf;\ce and 
length of the canal and Ijasins, from tlie Potomac to the Eastern Branch. No 
authority is found for converting^the canal into a sewer or recipient for the sewer- 
age matter of the city, nor can tlie committee find that the purposes of the 'lanal 
for navigation have ever been carried into full efl'ect. It wouhl further ap})ear 
that the city can make no sale, transfer, disposition, or change of its rights, inter- 
ests in and uses of the canal, without the authority of the United States, and it 
may well be questioned whether or not the city has lost all its rights in the pre- 
mises, by failing to make the canal navigable, and using it as a sewer and 
reservoir for the excreta from a large proportion of the population of the city. 

PROPOSED ACTION. 

On the 6th April, 1868, a bill was reported in the board of aldermen, grant- 
ing to certain citizens all the rights now held by the city in the canal lor a term 
of 30 years. It proposes to grant, for the sole use and lieuefit of the parties 
named, all the rights, &c., of the city to the canal, and all the rights conferred by 
the United States, under the act of the 31st May, 1833. The corporators are to 
naiTow the existing canal, and de(?pen it to one foot at loiv wafer, and finish 
the same in June, 1873, and rnay collect tolls and dockage. The company shall 
extend all sewers now leading hito said canal to the outer surface of the canal 
8 S 



114 PROCEEDINGS OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS. 

wall, and at no time interfere with the canal being used for sewerage. It was 
provided that this transfer, with the proposed modifications, be submitted to Con- 
gress for approval. 

The mayor of the city, in a commnnication to Congress of the 23d April, 1866, 
states that the condition of the canal is such as to require an abatement of the 
nuisance caused b}' deposits from the sewers, while the bill now under considera- 
tion of the council greatlj' increases and prolongs this nuisance. 

The committee concurs in the opinion of the mayor 'of the city that the pro- 
posed grant of the canal to a private corporation would be a grievous injury to 
the inhabitants of the city, and would defeat the much-desired object of both 
Congress and the community of securing the health of the city. 

The committee learns from the mayor that it is proposed to extend the Ches- 
apeake and Ohio canal from Georgetown, through the city, to the deep water 
along the Eastern Branch, with the view of establishing a shipping port for large 
vessels, and depot for the Cumberland coal, thus sharing with Georgetown and 
Alexandria the profits of this branch of industry. The project is one to which 
the committee should present no objection, provided it does not interfere with the 
general health of the cit}^, or works necessary for promoting the health of the 
inhabitants. 

The committee considers that a canal for such a purpose, or any other, through 
this city, should not lock down to tide-water until it has passed entirely through 
the city, and recommends that neither the existing canal, the proposed modifica- 
tions, nor transfer of the existing canal to any private corporation, be approved 
by Congress unless the sulyect of public health and sewerage be first provided 
for, and insured against all hindrance and interruption for all time to come, and 
that no sewage matter be allowed to enter any open canal tvhatever, within the 
limits of the District of Columbia. 

INFLUEXCE or THE CAXAL OJT THE HEALTH OE THE POPULATION. 

At the present time the Washington city canal is an extended cesspool, the 
bottom of which is below the level of low water, the surface varying Avith the 
slow and gradual rise and fall of the tide, without any current to act upon the 
bottom or of sufiicient velocity to move insoluble ponderous matter that is 
received into it. 

The sewage from the water-closets, kitchens, laundries, stables, cattle-pens, and 
street gutters is now received into this immense trap, there to remain, without 
power of any kind to carry it into the river or other place to protect the city 
against its pernicious effects and influences. The existing sewers now enter this 
reservoir so much below low water as to have caused one-half their entire height 
to be closed by deposit, and as a consequence filling every such sewer with 
poisonous matter into the city to the level of the intersection of the water in the 
canal with the inclined plane of the bottom of the sewer. This mass cannot be 
removed by any means now available. On the suppovsition that the canal re- 
ceives the sewage from a population of only 30,000 of the inhabitants of the 
city, the estimated annual cubic mass that is thrown into the canal is not less 
than 300,000 cubic feet, or at the rate of 10 cubic feet per head per annum of 
solid and fluid human excrement. 

This fecal matter has for some years past been accumulating in the canal, in 
proportion to the extent and number of sewers constructed from time to time, 
without any power of removal of the solid parts, and only a slight power for 
moving the fluid portions backwards and forwards, there being no continuous 
current to force even the fluid and soluble parts into the Potomac or Eastern 
Branch. 

From the experience of other cities, and the investigations of chemists and 
engineers, we learn that open sewers, as the canal in this city, evolve gases very 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE BOARD OF REGEXTS. 115 

projudiciul to liealth. Observation lias shown that the death rate is much greater 
amonnf the pojnilation along these open sewers than in streets removed but a 
short distance from them. 

I'he signs ol" animal liie visible to the naked (>ye in small rivers after receiv- 
ing sewage matter consists of myriads of minute worms, cliaiacteristic of all 
sewage water, and may be regarded as the last remains of animal life which can 
survive in such a locality; and even these die off" in sunnner. 

Tlie putrescence of the organic li(pnds and deposits in the open sewers and 
bottoms ajid beds of streams in all weathers, and the evolution of noxious gases 
therefrom, lead to the sensible contamination of the surrounding atmosphere, and 
consequently decreases the jjurity and healtliiness of the air, and the discharge 
of sewage matter into streams and small rivers pollutes the water by the mixture 
of much organic matter in a state of active putrescence. 

Analysis gives 15 to 80 grains per gallon of suspended matter, and from 35 
to 76 grains of dissolved matter, of the sewage of large tow'ns. Of the fornier 
about 35 per centum is organic, and of the latter about 28 per centum. The 
organic matter consists of vegetable and animal fibre with a soluble extractive in 
a high state of dec<imposition. The organic constituents give off such an abund- 
ance of foul gases that they are a constant source of auno^'auce. These gases 
consist ol about 73 })er centum of light carburetted hydrogen, IG per centum of 
carbonic acid, 10 of nitrogen, and ti'aces of sulphuretted hydrogen, ammonia, and 
a putrid, organic vapor that is in the highest degree offensive. 

Every gallon of sewage will discharge from 1^ to li cubic inches of this gas 
per hour, and the fermentation continues for weeks. Whenever this gas esca[)es 
from privies, cesspools, or sewers, it causes disease, and linall}' sets up a putrid 
form of fever which is exceedingl}' fatal. 

Every effort is made elsewhere to prevent the diffusion of these foetid gases 
into the houses and public ways, while in Washington we promote the evil to an 
incalculable extent and danger in that vast fermenting vat, the city canal. 

It follows that the sewage of large jiopulous cities and towns can only be con- 
ducted into large rivers near the sea, that they may not contaminate the atmo- 
sphere, and slujukl never be discharged into fresh-water streams used or required 
lor man or beast. 

If conducted into closed harbors or bays, they create such a deadly pollution 
as soon to lead to the most alarjuing consecpiences. 

The magnitude of this evil, and tlie suddenness with which it may come upon 
us in its most fatal form, are excmpliiied by the experience of London. The 
committee asks attention thereto, as fully illustrating the evil we have to com- 
bat in this city, and the necessity of prompt attention : 

"On the introduction of the water-closet system in London, and the abolition 
of cesspools, with tlie increase of gas-works, the Thames began to give indica- 
tions of receiving a larger (piantity of decomposing matter than it could purify 
or get rid of by the tide movement. In 1S5G it became apparent in the summer 
months that the river emitted a disagreeable stench. This l)ecaine still more 
evident in 1857, and was obviously dependent on the increased attention paid to 
the removal of all refuse from houses by the aid of drainage. In 1S5S the stench 
aj)peared with increased intensity, and especially in the neighborhood of the new 
house* of parliament. Every one felt it was necessary to meet so gigantic an 
evil. The river had become one elongated cesspool, and the effect upon the 
teeming impulation of its banks might be in a sh(n't time of the most disastrous 
kiud. In 1858 an act was jiassed for jjreventing, as far as practical, the sewage 
from passing into the Thames within tlu^ metropolis, giving authority to expend 
three millions of pounds sterling to effect the object." 

This experience may very properly be received as a truthful representation 
of what is being d(Uie in this city, and the consequences. 

The specific gravity of sewage gases is lighter than that of the atmosphere 



116 PROCEEDINGS OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS. 

Generated in large volumes in tlie canal, and lower end of as well as in the sewers, 
it ascends the sewers to escape at every higher level, and creates the pestilential 
influences heretofore referred to. We had some experience in this city in 1857, 
causing" death and prolonged disease among the inmates of one of our hotels. 
Thus the deleterious gases ascend and the poisonous liquids descend, making the 
ventilation of the sewers as important as conveying away the solids and liquids 
to insure the health of the city. No system of cleansing sewers Ly manual labor 
is justifiable. 

Laborers employed in this disgusting business in the culverts for fluid excre- 
ments, as in the Paris system, are subject to two terrible diseases, both due to 
the deadly effluvium of feces, the one caused by ammonia gas, creating distem- 
pers of the nose and eyes, and the second by sulphuretted hydrogen, nitrogen, 
and hydrosnlphm-etted ammonia, causing sudden death. In the sewers for fluid 
and solid excrementa, as in London and Washington city, the effects are even 
more fatal. In the report of the engineer relating to the London sewers, it is 
stated that he witnessed several cases of death, and others in wliich men were 
taken out insensible, after only a few seconds' exposure. In Warwick street, 
Fimlico, five men were killed, in 1852, by this gaseous sewage. Three of them 
had gone into tlio sewer early in the morning, and, not returning for breakfast, 
alarm was felt for their safety. A surgeon entered the sewer and was killed on 
the spot. A young policeman followed and was struck dead in a few minutes. 
On examination after death it was shown that he could not have made more than 
two respirations before death after entering the sewer. On making an opening 
from the street into the sewers to get the bodies of these men, the gases as they 
escaped were set fire to by a match and burnt with a yellow flame, rising twenty 
feet. Within three months of the date of the engineer's report three more lives 
were lost near Whitechapel by breathing sewage gases as it escaped from an 
opening made into another sewer. 

It is now a well-established fact, deduced from the medical statistics of the 
English armies in India, and of our army in its marches during the past two 
years, that cholera is propagated mainly by atmospheres contaminated and poi- 
soned by the excrement of cholera patients. 

In this city the canal would be the reservoir for such matter, first to be con- 
taminated by travellers from infected districts, sojourning temporarily at the hotels, 
all the sewers from which now or are hereafter to empty in the canal. 

The committee is of the opinion that the canal, as it now exists, is a great cause 
for creating and propagating disease, and should at the earliest possible moment 
be filled up and discontinued for use as a sewer and reservoir for excrement and 
waste waters of kitchens, water-closets, laundries, and other sources of contam- 
inating matter, and is also of the opinion that, if the proposition of granting the 
city rights to this canal be confirmed, the evils herein set forth can»iot be etli- 
ciently corrected by any means left in the power of the public authorities with- 
out incurring a heavy expenditure to purchase rights and property now proposed 
to be given away. 

It is proper to state that part of this system of sewage, and, it is believed, the 
commencement of making the canal a reservoir and cesspool, was made under 
appropriations of Congress for building sewers from the Capitol and the execu- 
tive buildings from Fifteenth to Seventeenth streets. 

KEMEDIES FOR THE EXISTING EVILS. 

The committee has pointed out the probable evil consequences of our existing 
system of sewage, as a result of using the canal as a cesspool and reservoir for 
tlae fecal matter, from whence it cannot l)e removed by any existing means. It 
has also shown that the air and water from the canal arc contaminattid by the 
sewerage of the city, and produce fatal diseases tending to virulent epidemics, 
and that the canal is neither fit for navigation, sewerage, or drainage, in its pre- 
sent form and dimensions. 



PKOCEEDIXGS OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS. 1 1 7 

It remains for tlie committee to jn-opose some method by wliicli tliese evils may 
be remedied. 

The old, thickly populated cities and towns of Europe have been compelled, 
for self-preservation, to expend millions of money, and adopted a variety of sys- 
tems to remove excrement from the limits of their abodes. 

The sj'stems last adopted for Paris and London, at an immense outlay, give in 
general the main reliable features of th(? most acceptal)le j)lans. . 

In Paris metallic vessels for every family are so arranged that the solid fseces 
are separated from the urine. The latter passes into street sewers of large 
dimeubions, conducting it, with the surface drainage from the streets, into the 
Seine, and the solids are removed from the dwellings by scavengers with carts, 
and conveyed some miles from Paris, where it is converted into dry poudrette and 
sold for manure. No less than 278,000 cubic metres of these solid excrementa 
Avere collected from the tenements in I^aris and removed to La Vilette for con- 
version into fertilizing matters in one year. 

In London a system commenced in 1S59 of sewers at different levels, running 
parallel with the Thames, receives all the house and sti'et't drainage, both solid 
and liuid, and conducts the same, miles below the city, into the river, to find its 
way to the sea. These longitudinal sewers drain the entire city surface of 117 
square miles, and are together 82 miles in length. Their fall does not exceed 
two feet per mile, and are carried over rivers, railways, roads, and streets, by 
wrought-iron aqueducts. Of the surface thus drained 25 J square miles are below 
the level of high water, and drained by a sewer of 10 miles in length. A part 
of the sewerage, or 14o- miles of this surface, has to be ])umped up 17i feet to 
discharge it into the Thames; and at what is called the Abbey Mills Station, the 
whole mass of sewage is pumped up 36 feet to the level of the outfall sewer. 
This system is peculiar in having culverts parallel with the river, to receive the 
sewage at high levels as far as practicable, and not allow it to fall into basins or 
valleys below the river surface, and by steam pumps raising all the sewage mat- 
ter from surfaces below the river level into the main drains leading to the river. 

Another system is advocated, by which all the excrementa is received from the 
water-closets, both solid and fluid, into small boxes in the streets, from whence 
it is drawn by pneumatic portable engines into tight barrels, and thence in its 
liquid state distributed in drills underground by phiughs, as a manure for the sur- 
rounding countr3\ It is claimed to be the only effectual way of removing this 
ofTensive matter and presei'ving the whole of it for manuring the soil. 

With subsoil ]>loughing, rotation of ci'ops, lime, marl, green sand, barn-yard 
manure, guano, and other fertilizers, the use of sewage matter is not likely to be 
acceptable to our agriculturists, and no demand will probably exist sufficient to 
absorb the quantities that by this system must be daily disposed of in summer 
and winter. 

The committee has come to the conclusion that we must construct the sewers 
of the city of Washington on levels above high icatcr, and conduct them to dis- 
charge their contents in the strong ebb current of the Potomac river at high water, 
that the entire accuumlation of twelve hours may have six hours of ebb tide to 
carry it towards the Chesai)eake, which, with the annual freshets and constant 
flow of the l*otomac, will always carry it beyond the distance it can be brought 
back by the flood. 

It is indispensable the outlet of these main sewers should be hcloiv the Long 
bridge, (and as distant as practicable,) otherwise all the solid matter would accu- 
mulate on the shoals between this bridge and Georgetown, and in time create as 
great an evil as the canal. 

To effect this object all the main sewers nuist be carried across the site of the 
present canal on closed aqueducts or caKsewai/s, at the most advantageous levels 
above high water, and thence under the grounds south of the canal, to suitable 
places on the bank of the river, where closed luid covered reservoirs may be con 



118 PROCEEDINGS OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS. 

sti'ucted to retain the sewage until tlie ebb-tide makes, when gates or valves will 
be opened to allow it to escape into the river, under the water surface, using the 
waters of Rock creek and the Tiber to cleanse them. 

The present canal should then cease to be used for any other purpose than as 
an escape for the waters of the Tiber during extraordinary freshets, and for such 
surface drainage as cannot be carried across it into the sewers leading to the 
Potomac, and to this end must be filled up and reduced in size and form to an 
arched culvert. The proposed canal for commercial purposes, with an outlet in 
the Eastern Branch, shoukl, in like manner, be carried over the valley of the 
present canal on an atpieduct or causeway, and then through or along the high 
ground to the Eastern Branch. 

We have found that the canal is not useful for navigation. A railroad over 
the same ground, extended along the river front, with turn-outs and sidings to 
warehouses and depots, free to every owner of a car, would better subserve the 
publis welfare, it is believed, than any water transportation that can be derived 
from the existing or other canal. Such a road for heav}' traffic, with a well- 
constructed paved streat for light vehicles, and a paved walk along the south side, 
adjacent to the pul>lic reservations, connecting the Capitol, botanic garden, Smith- 
sonian, agricultural, and Washington monument grounds with the grounds about 
the President's house, would insure greater health, promote public convenience, 
and greatl}^ enhance the value of property now separated from the settled portions 
of the city by an impassable barrier. These are additional considerations for 
using the site of the existing canal as a covered drain or culvert for surface water 
only. 

The committee has confined itself to pointing out the evil effects of the exist- 
ing sewerage, the necessity for immediate correction, and a general plan therefor, 
leaving it for the talent and genius of the most experienced engineers to select 
the most advantageous sites for the outlets of the sewers, at the most distant 
2)oints from dense population, and matme the details of a project for cai'rying this 
system into effect. 

All of which is respectfully submitted by 

RICHARD DELAFIELD, 

For the Committee of the Megents. 

RICHARD WALLACH, Mayor. 

RICHARD DELAFIELD, U. S. Armij. 

PETER PARKER, M. D. 
Washington, D. C, May 15, 1868. 



After discussion, and the unanimous expression of opinion that the canal was 
a nuisance which should speedily be abated, on motion of Mr. Pruyn the fol- 
lowing resolution was adopted : 

" Resolved^ That the report of the executive committee be accepted, and t'hat 
the committee be authorized, in their discretion, to unite Avith the corporate 
authorities of Washington in a memorial to Congress for such relief as may 
eventually lead to an alniteinent of the nuisance complained of." 

On motion of General Delaficld, it was 

'' Itesolved, That the vacancy in the executive committee be filled by the 
election of Rev. Dr. John Maclean." 

Professor Henry presented his annual report of the operations of the Institution 
during the year 1868, which was read, accepted, and ordered to be presented to 
Congress. 

On motion of General Garfield, it was 

" Resolved, That the regents renew their application to Congress to increase 
the annual approjjriation for the care of the government collections to $10,000." 

The board adjoiu-ued, to meet at the call of the secretary. 



GENERAL APPENDIX 



TO THE 



EEPOET FOR 1868. 



The object of tliis appendix is to illustrate the operations of the Institution 
by reports of lectures and extracts from coiTcspondence, as well as to furnish 
information of a character suited especially to the meteorological observers and 
other persons interested in the promotion of knowledge. 



MEMOIR OF CUYIERi 



By M. Flourens. 



Translated for the Smithsonian Institution ly C. A. Alexander.* 

"VVlicn a nation loses ono of those men wliose sole name would suffice for its 
OAvn glory and that of an epoch, the grief which it feels is so profound that 
voices are raised on all sides to deplore the common calamity. There is a general 
emulation to pour forth the puldic regret at their tomb ; a universal impulse to 
make known all that can be learned respecting lives so illustrious and so honorable 
to humanity. 

So it should have been, and so in effect it has been in regard to M. Cuvier. Men 
of science, men of letters, whole Academies, indeed, have already published 
accounts of his life and j^erson, and it would be too late to-day for the Academy 
of Sciences to say anyihing new of the great man whom it has lost. But, among 
the labors on which rests his renown, there are such as pertain more specially 
to this Academy, and the study of which is far from being exhausted. I allude to 
the progress wdiicli the natural sciences owe to M. Cuvier, a progress which has 
renovated all those sciences, and which has so greatly extended them that it has 
in reality extended, through them, the reach of the human mind and the domain 
of genius. 

In ]\I. Cuvier, therefore, I consider here only the savant, and even in the savant 
shall, above all, consider the naturalist. Fontenelle said, in his account of 
Leibnitz, that he had been obliged, in some sort, to divide and decompose that 
great man ; and that quite the contrary of antiquity, which had made one Hercules 
out of many, he had made of Lcil;)iiitz alone, many savants. So it is necessary 
to decompose M. Cuvier, if we would at all measure his genius; this great intel- 
lect wliioli, like that of Leibnitz, " conducted all the sciences abreast," and which, 
not restricting itself to the sciences, diffused its light on the highest institutions 
of the state, requires, in order to be properly comprehended, as many separate 
discussions as it has manifested different capacities. I repeat, therefore, that I 
here consider in M. Cuvier only the naturalist; but even so, my task will be 
immense, and, in venturing to approach it, 1 need all the indulgence of those 
to whom I address myself. 

The history of JM. Cuvier, if we recall all that the natural sciences owe to 
liim, is scarcely less in fact than the history of those sciences in the earlier part 
f)f the nineteenth century. The eighteenth had already communicated to them 
a rajjid movement in advance. Two individuals, Linnaeus and Ihiffon, had espe- 
cially co-operated in ])roducing this movement; and although endowed other- 
wise with very different qualities, it is to be remarked, nevertheless, that it was 
from tilt; same cause that both had failed in their aim. Those phenomena, in 
cffcft, those beings, those facts, which the comprehensive genius of LinntBus 
Sdught to distinguish and to classify; those facts which the soaring genius of 
I'uHon sought to combine and to explain, were not yet sufficiently known in 
their intimate nature to snp[)ly either thuir true classiiicalion or their real explana- 
tion. 

The primary merit of jM. Cuvier, and it was by this merit that he comnmni- 
cated from the first a new life to the natural sciciices, was the distinct perception 

*Kead before the Academy of Seicuces, 'i'Jth December, 1834. 



122 MEMOIR OF CUVIER. 

tliat the classification as well as explanation of facts could be founded only on 
tlieir inmost nature tliorouglily understood. In a word, and taking into view 
only the natural history of animals, that branch of natural history in general 
Avhich M. Cuvier has most directly elucidated by his labors, it is evident that 
what had been wanting to Linnaeus and to BufFon, whether for the classification 
of animals or for the proper explanation of their pheiiomena, was the adequate 
knowledge of their.internal structure or organization ; and it is not less evident 
that the laAvs of all classification, as of the whole natural philosophy of these 
beino-s, could spring only from the laws of that organization itself. 

It will presently be seen that it was by the assiduous study of these fruitful 
laws that M. Cuvier renovated in succession zoology and comparative anatomy ; 
that he renovated them one by means of the other; and that he founded on both 
the science of fossil animals — a science altogether ncAv, wholly due to his genius, 
and which has thrown light in its turn on the science of the earth itself. But 
before we come to these last and astonishing results, the fruits of so many grand 
conceptions and so many unexpected discoveries, let us first see what he has 
done in particular for each of the sciences just mentioned, in order that we may 
afterward be better able to comprehend and embrace in a general view what he 
has done for all. I commence with zoology. 

Linnaeus, who of all the naturalists of the eighteenth century had exerted the 
most general influence on the human mind, particularly in point of method, 
divided the animal kingdom into six classes : quadrupeds, birds, reptiles, fishes, 
insects, and icorms. In this Linnaeus committed a first general error, for in 
placing in the same line these six primitive divisions, he assumed that an equal 
interval separated them one from another ; than which nothing could be less 
exact. On the other hand, almost all these classes, especially the last, at one 
time separate animals the most nearh' related, at another unite those which are 
most incongruous. In a word, classification, which has no other end but to 
mark the true relations of beings, in this instance almost everywhere severed 
those relations ; and that instrument of method W'hich only serves the under- 
standing in so far as it conveys just ideas of things, communicated to it, nearly 
tiirougliout, only false ideas. 

This whole classification of Linnaeus was, therefore, to be recast, and nearly 
the entire framework of the science to be reconstructed. Now, to attain this 
end, it was first necessary to found the classification on organization, for it is 
organization alone which gives the true relations ; in other terms, it was neces- 
sary to found zoology on anatomy ; , it was next necessary to introduce into the 
method itself views more just and elevated than had been previously applied. 
It w'as, in effect, these elevated views as regards method, these profound studies 
on organization, which shone forth in the first labors of M. Cuvier : potent 
resources, by means of which he succeeded in efiecting successively the reform 
of all the branches of zoology, one after the other, and in finally renovating iu 
its whole extent that vast and grand science. 

I have said that it was chiefly in the class vermes of .Linnaeus that disorder 
and confusion prevailed. He had thrown into it all animals with white blood — 
that is to say, more than half the animal kingdom. It was in the first of his 
memoirs, published in 1795, that M. Cuvier pointed out the great difference of 
the beings till then confounded under this vagae name of white-l)looded animals, 
and that he separated them with precision from one another, first into three great 
classes : Molluslcs, which, like the poulp, the cuttle-fish, the ouster, have a heart, 
a complete vascular system, and respire by means of brancliiaj or gills ; insects, 
which have, in place of a heart, only a simple dorsal vessel, and respire by 
trachea? ; and, lastly, zoophytes — animals whose structure is so simple as to have 
gained them this name, signifying animal plants, and which have neither heart, 
nor vessels, nor distinct organ of respiration. By subsequently forming three 
other classes — vermes, Crustacea, cchinodermata — all the animals with white 



MEMOIR OF CUVIER. ^ 123 

"blood arc fouiul toLc distiil)ntcHl into six classes : moUus/cs, crustaceans, insects, 
worms, cchinodcrms, and zoophytes. 

Everytbino" was new in tliis distribution ; but everything was at tlie same time 
so evident that it was generally adopted, and thenceforward the animal kingdom 
assnuied a new face. Moreover, the precision of the characters on whi(;h each 
of these classes was founded, the ]j(!rfect conformity of the beings whicii were 
assend)led under each of them, could not but prove convincing to naturalists; 
and what doiduh^ss a})pcared to them not less wortli}^ of admiration than these 
direct and immediate results, was the su(hlen light which tliereby broke on tlie 
highest points of the science — the grand ideas on tlic subordination of the organs 
and on the ofllce of this subordination in their employment as characters — those 
great laws of the animal organizatit)n thus and so early apprehended : that all 
animals with white blood which have a lieart have also brancliia? or a circum- 
scribed respiratory organ ; that all those which have no heart have only a 
trachea ; that wherever the heart and the branchiae exist, the liver exists j that 
wherever they are wanting the liver is wanting.* 

Assuredly, no one had as yet thrown a glance so comprehensive, so penetrat- 
ing on the general laws of the organization of animals, and it was easy to fore- 
see that if he shoitld pursue the investigation of those laws with anything like 
the same continuity, Cuvier, whose first views had imparted to science so brilliant 
an impulse, would not be long in extending its boundaries in every direction. 
He has often recalled since, and even in his last works, this first memoir, from 
which, in truth, date the germs both of the grand renovation Avhich he effected 
in zoology and of the greater part of his most fundamental ideas in coinp;irative 
anatomy. 

Never, indeed, had the domain of a science been so rapidly augmented. With 
the esce])tion of Aristotle, whose philosophic genius had neglected no part of 
the animal kingdom, scarcely had any one studied, at any epoch, more than the 
vertebrate animals alone, at least in a general and thorough manner. The ani- 
mals with uhite Hood, or, as M. Lamarck has since called them, the animals iviih- 
Oiit vertebra;, formed in some sort a new animal kingdom, almost unknown to 
naturalists, and of which M. Cuvier had at once revealed to them as well the 
diS'erent plans of structm-e as the particular laws to wliich each of these plans 
is subjected. All these animals — so numerous, so varied in their forms, and the 
knowledge of which has since so greatly extended the basis of general j)hysi- 
ology and natural philosophy — were then of scarcely any account to tlie pliysi- 
ologist and the })hilosopher ; and even long after these great labors of M. Cuvier 
of which I speak, how man}' systems have we not seen which, pretending to 
embrace under one sole point of view the entire animal kingdom, have embraced 
in reality only the vertebrata? So vast was the new route which ho had traced 
for naturalists, and so dithcult was it found to follow him therein, on account of 
its very vastness, 

•In this first memoir, then, M. Cuvier had succeeded in finally establishing the 
true division of animals with while Idood. In a second, taking up sj)ecially 
one of their classes, that of the mollusks, he laid the loundations of his great 
work on those animals — a lal)or which occu})ied him for so many years, and 
which has produced an assemblage of results the most surprising, perhaps, and 
at least the most essentially new of all modern zoology, as of all modern com- 
parative anatomy. 

Till then there had been no example of an anatomy so exact and bearing on 
so great a numl)er of fine and delicate parts. Daulxmton, that model of precis- 
ion and exactness, had scared}' described with erpial detail more than the skele- 
ton and the viscera of quadrupeds ; here there was the same attention and a 

* By the liver I ineim a ihtissive and comjitict or<Tan, a conj^lornerate phmd ; in insects tliQ 
eecreiioMs in effect are accomplished simply by tubes very loug aud slender, which float iu 
the interior of the body and are lixed only by the tracheae. 



12-1 MEMOIR OF CUVIER. 

still more eminent degree of sagacity of obsen^ition transferred to all the partg 
of the animal — to its muscles, its vessels, its nerves, its organs of sense. Swam- 
merdam, and Pallas,* who had embraced all the parts of the animal in their anatom- 
izations, had confined these to certain species ; in another genus Lyonnet had 
ctmfincd himself to a single one ; in the case of Cuvier there was an entire class 
of animals, and of all animals the class least known, of whicli almost all the 
species were described and all the details, even the most delicate and obscure, 
of their structure were brought to light and developed. 

The moUnsJcs have all a heart, as already said ; some, however, have but a 
single one, like the oyster and snail; others have two ; others again, lilie the 
poulp and cuttle-fish, have as many as three distinct hearts. And yet it was 
with these animals whose organization is so ricli, which have a brain, nerves, 
organs of sense and of secretion, that it had been the custom to confound others, 
which, like the zoophytes and polypes, for example, have for their whole organi- 
zation only an almost homogeneous i)ul}). 

The experiments of Trembley have rendered famous the polypus of fresh 
water, that animal which puts forth buds like a plant, and each part of which, 
separated from the others, forms a new and complete individual. The whole 
structure of this singular zoophyte reduces itself to a sac^ — that is to say, to a 
mouth and stomach. M. Cuvier has made known another zoophyte,t whose 
structure presents something still more surprising, for it has not even a mouth; 
it is nourished by means of ramified suckers, like plants, and its internal cavity 
serves by turns as a stomach and sort of heart, for vessels enter it which con- 
duct to it the nutritive juices, and other vessels issue from it which convey these 
juices to the members. 

One of the most curious pi'oblems of the physiology of white-hlooded anhncils 
which has been resolved by M. Cuvier is that of tlie nutrition of insects. Insects, 
as has been already said, liave, in place of a heart, only a simple dorsal vessel; 
and, moreover, this dorsal vessel has no branch, no ramification, no particular 
vessel which either enters or issues from it. This was already known through 
the celebrated researches of Malpighi, Swammerdam, and Lyonnet. But M. 
Cuvier goes much further; he examines, one after the other, all the parts of the 
bodies of insects, and by this detailed examination he shows that no sanguineous 
vessel, or, what amounts to the same thing, no circulation, exists in these ani- 
mals. How, then, is their nutrition efi'ected? 

M. Cuvier begins by remarking that the final object of the circulation is to 
conduct the blood to the air. Hence all animals which have a heart have a cir- 
cumscribed respiratory organ, whether lungs or branchia?, and the blood returned 
from the members to the heart is invariably constrained to traverse this organ, 
in order to be there subjected to the action of the air before returning to the 
members. But in insects the apparatus of respiration is wholly different. It is 
no longer a circumscribed organ whicli receives the air; it is an immense num- 
ber of elastic vessels, called trachecc, which convey it into all pans of the body, 
and which thus conduct it even to the nutritive fluid itself, which continually 
bathes those parts. In a word, while in other animals it is the nutritive fluid 
which by means of the circAilation goes in search of the air, the })henomenon is 
reversed in insects, and it is the air, on the contrary, which goes to seek the 
nutritive fluid, and thereby renders all circulation useless.| 

Another discovery of M. Cuvier, not less important, is that of the circulatory 
apparatus of certain worms, such as the earth-worm and leech, whicli had until 
then been confounded with those ^ooj>h)/tes of a structure incomparably more 

* Poii had -also preceded him in the anatomy of several molluscs, but of mutficalve and 
hivalve molluscs only. 

t Namely, the blue rhizostome. 

t We are speakiiig here only of perfect insects. Since the researches of M. Cuvier which 
I have at preseut in view, M. Carus has discovered in certain larvae a sort of circulation, or 
rather a movement of the blood, which movement, however, is not effected in vessels proper. 



MEMOIR OF CUVIER. 125 

simple, -u-liich live only in tlie interior of other animals.* By a remarlvaLle sin- 
gularity the hlood of these worms, with a eirculatory ap})aratus,t is red : a new 
circumstance to show how inexact and vague was the denomination of animals 
witli white blood, given till then, in a general manner, to animals without 
vertebra'. 

By means of these admirable investigations M. Cuvier, it will bo seen, had 
fixed the limits of the class of moUusks; he had determined that of the vermes 
with red blood, he had completely separated both from that of iha zoophytes ; 
finally, he had marked the true place of the zoophytes themselves, thenceforth 
consigned to the extreme limit of the animal kingdom. But a principle which 
he had employed in all these researches must needs lead him still further. This 
principle is that of the subordination of organs or of characters. 

Method should not limit itself, in effect, to representing indistinctly the rela- 
tions of structure ; it ought to mark, besides, the particular order of these relations 
and the relative importance of each, and it is precisely to this end that the prin- 
ciple of the subordination of organs serves. Bernard and Laurent de Jussieu 
had already applied this principle, as fruitful as it is infallible, to botany, but 
the zoologists had not yet ventured to make the ai)plication of it to their own 
science, determined, no doubt, l)y the great number and complication of the 
organs which constitute the animal body, and which, for the most part, are 
wanting in vegetables. 

The principle of subordination of organs coidd only be introduced into zoology 
when preceded by anatomy. The first step to be taken was to know the organs; 
the determination of their relative importance could be only the second. Tliese 
two steps accom])lislied, there remained only to found the characters on the 
organs, and to subonlinate these characters one to the other, as the organs are 
subordinated among themselves. Such was properly the object of the Animal 
Kingdom distributed aecording to its organization, (Bcgne Animal, dx.,) that 
great work in which the new zoological doctrine of the illustrious author is dis- 
played as at length reproduced in all its entireness and co-ordinated in all its 
parts. 

Dating from this work the art of methods has assumed a new face. Linnteus, 
as is well known, had seen in this art only a means of distinguishing species. 
M. Cuvier was the first who undertook to make method the very instrument of 
the generalization of facts. JMethod, viewed in itself, is for him only the sub- 
ordination of ])ropositions, of truths, of facts, one to another, according to the 
order of their generality. Applied to the animal world, it is the sid)ordination 
of groups among themselves, according to the relative importance of the organs 
which constitute the distinctive characters of those groups. Now, the most 
im|)ortant organs are also those which involve the most general resemblances. 
Whence it follows that in fuimding the inferior groups on the subordinate organs, 
and the superior groups on the dominating organs, the superior groups will 
always necessarily comprise the inferior, or, in other terms, it will always be 
practicalde to pass from one to the other by progressive proi)ositions, becoming 
moi'e and more general in proportion as we ascend from the inferior grou])S 
towards the superior. 

Meihod, therefore, pro)>erly considered, is but tlu; geuenilized (expression of 
science; it is science itself, ])iit science reduced to its most simple exiiressions ; 
it is still more : this linkini;- together of facts according to their analogies, this 
linking together of analogies according to their <legree of comprehensiveness, is 
not limited to the representation of known relations; it brings to light anuiltitudc 
of new ndations, contained one in another ; it disengages them from one another ; 
it thus gives new forces to the understanding for perceiving and discovering ; it 
creates for the mind new processes of logic. 

* Namely tlie intcstiiml wurins. tluit class of zooijliytcs wliicli, for tlic most part, can only 
live and projiaj^iite in the intiTior tif tlic hodics of otlicr auimals. 
t U'unns with red liloiiil of (Jiivicr : anneliili's of Lamarck. 



126 MEMOIE OF CUVIEE. 

Hitherto M. Cuvier Lad seen, in eacli of these grand dasses of invertebrate 
animal;?, molJusl^s, insects and zoophi/fes, only a group like each of the four 
classes of vertebrate animals, qnadnqjcds, birds, reptiles and fishes. It was 
because he had as yet considered only the organs of circulation. 

In considering the nervous system, whicli is a much more important organ, he 
saw that each of the three great classes of animals without vertebra? corresponded 
or \\'as equivalent not to such or such a. class of veriehrafe animals tahen sepa- 
rateh', but to all these vertebrate animals taken together. A first form of the 
nervous system unites all these vertebrate animals in a single group ; a second 
form unites all the niollusks ; a third unites the insects to the wonns with red 
blood, and both to the Crustacea, constituting the group of articulata ; a fourth 
form, finally, unites all the zoophj^tes. There are thus four plans, four types in 
the animal kingdom, ibur emhranehements, as M. Cuvicr calls them ; or, in plainer 
terms, and divested of everything vague, there are four general forms of the 
nervous system in animals. 

In the sciences of observation and experiment the supreme art of genius is to 
transform questions from simple (questions of reasoning into questions of fact. 
For more than a century' the question had been debated whether, in animals, 
there was but one ]ilan of oiganization, or whether there were several. This 
question, couched till then in terms so vague, is transformed by M. Cuvier into 
this other question, positive and to the point, nameh', how many distinct forms 
are there of the nervous system in animals? Now, as I have just said, there are 
lour- — one for tlie vcrtehrafa, one for the mollusca, one for the artictdata, one for 
the zoophyta ; these four plans or types comprising the whole animal kingdom. 

Sucli is the liglit thi'own upon the animal kingdom by the great Avork under 
consideration that, guided l)y this, the mind is enabled precisely to apprehend 
the different orders of relation which connect animals with one another; the 
relations of conformity (d'cnsemhlej which constitute the unity, the character of 
the kingdom ; the relations more or less general which constitute the miity of 
the emhranehements, of the classes; the more particular relations which constitute 
the unity of the orders, of the genera. 

Nevertheless, this work of so vast a scope, of such immense detail, was not 
yet what IM. Cuvicr would have A\ished. It is the property of genius always to 
see something beyond and better than all that it has done. And, indeed, though 
all tlie species had been reviewed in this great work, the greater part of them 
had been scarcely more than indicated ; it was, therefore, ouly an abridged, not 
a complete system of animals. No^^', the idea of a corajjlete system of animals, 
a system in whicli all the species should be not only indicated, distinguished, 
classified, but represented and described in their whole structure, was one of 
those with which M. Cuvier Avas most constantly occupi(Kl. Hence, scarcely 
was this great treatise on the animal kingdom terminated, when anothei" was 
already commenced, and on a plan not less vast. I niean the '' Natural History 
of Fishes," ( HisuAre ncdureUe des poissons,) the first volume of which appeared 
in 1828. 

After having effected, in the earlier of these two works, the complete reform 
of tlie system of animals, what he had wished in the second was to show, by a 
detailed and thorough exposition of all the known species of a class, what could be 
done for all other species and all other classes. With this view he had chosen 
the class of fishes as being, aniong all those of the vertebrata, the most numerous, 
the least known, and that most enriclied by the recent discoveries of travellers. 
The latest aitthors of note in ichthyology, Bloch and Lacepede, were scarcely 
acquainted with so many species of fish as 1,400 ; in the work of M. Cuvier 
the number of species would have amounted to more than 5,000 ; the entire 
work would have included not less than 20 volumes, all the materials wen? placed 
in order, and the nine volumes winch made their appearance in less than six 
years full}' attest the Avouderful rapidity with which it was intended that this 
vast undertaking sliould proceed 



MEMOIR OF CUVIER. 127 

Pressed by want of time I must deny myself all details on tliis work, so 
astonisliini^ for its extent, and yet still mcjre astonishing- for that profound art in 
the formation of genera andfamilies, of which the author seems to have del iirhted 
to unveil the most ludden secrets, and for that science of characters which no 
one ever possessed in an equal degree ; results of experience and fruits of a 
genius aiTived at its full maturity.* 

Such is the assemblage of great labors by which M. Cuvier has renovated 
zoology ; but a reibrin still more important, and of which that is in reality but 
the consequence, is what be bad already effected, or was at the same time effecting 
in coDipamfive anatomy. It is imiu)ssil)le to speak of the progress which this 
science owed to the researches of M. Cuvier without profound respect and even 
grateful acknowledgment ; he himself regarded this branch of investigation, and 
with justice, as the regulator of all those whioh relate to organized beings, and 
death surprised him still meditating that great work which he had consecrated 
to it, and in which, collecting anew all its forces, his vast g(!nius would have 
undoubtedly appeared in all its grandeur. But though this work remained 
unaccomplished, its principal elements sul)sist, as they are scattered in various 
memoirs, especially in \\\^ Lecons cV anatomic comparccaxn\.\\\& Bccherclics sur Ics 
ossements fossiles^ immortal labors which have communicated to comparative 
anatomy such an impulsion that, after having been so long the most neglected 
of the branches of natural history, it has suddenly outstripped and taken the lead 
of all of them. 

The history of comparative anatomy counts three epochs clearly marked — 
the epoch of Aristotle, that of Claude Pcrrault, and that of Cuvier. Every 
one knows with how much genius the foundations of the science were laid by 
Aristotle among the ancients. But what is not as well known, though not less 
worthy of being so, is the force of intellect with which Claude Perraidt, at the 
middle of the seventeenth century, undertook the reconstruction of the entire 
science from its very base — that is to say, from the consideration of particuliir 
facts. His descrijTtions are the first assured step taken by com[)arative anatomy 
in modern times. Daubenton advanced it still another, for he rendered those 
descriptions comparable. Vicq-d'Azyr went yet further. Rich through the 
lal)ors of Daul)enton, of Ilaller, of Hunter, of Jlonro, of Camper, of Pallas, 
Vicq-d'Azyr embraced comparative anatomy in its completeness ; he brought to it 
that penetrating genius which sees in science the end to be attained, and that 
spirit of sequeiice which attains it ; and by no one more than by him was that 
great reform promoted which M. Cuvier finally achieved for the science in question. 

It was certaiidy fortunate for this "science to have passed immediately from the 
hands of one of these two eminent men into the hands of the other. Vicq-d'Azyr 
had thrown on it the glance of the physiologist 5 M. Cuvier threw on it more 
particularly that of the zoologist, and we may concede that it had an equal 
need of being considered under Ixjth these points of view. It may well be 
thought that its reform would not have been so complete and its influence so 
general except that, having been b}- tinns studied and adapted with a view both 
to zoology anil })hysiology, it has beconle alike for both the guide and the lumi- 
nary. 

However this may b-e, comparative anatomy was still but a collection of par- 
ticular facts touching the structure of animals, when M. Cuvier transformed it 
into the science of the gen(?ral laws of the animal organizivtion. After having 
transformed, as we have seen, the zoological method from being a simple nomen- 
clature into an instrument of generalization, he n(nv proceeded to dispose the facts 
in comparative anatomy in such an order that, from their simple collocation, have 
proceeded so many admirable and progressively ascending laws; as, for example, 
that each kind of organ has its fixed and determined modilications; that a con- 

* Sec, respecting this work, the developments which I present in my tlistoire des Travaux 
de M. Cuvier. 



12b MEMOIR OF CUVIER. 

Btant relation connects all modifications of the organism witli one another; that 
certain organs exert on the collective animal economy a more marked and 
decisive influence, whence the law of their subordination ; that certain facts of 
oi'g'anization necessarily involve the presence of each other, while there are such, 
on the contrary, as are incompatible and exclusive, one of the other, whence the 
law of their correlation or coexistence ; besides so many other laws, so many 
other general relations, which have^ in the end, created and developed the 
philosophic part of the science. 

Among so many discoveries, so many particular facts with which he has 
enriched that science, I must necessarily confine myself to a citation of the most 
prominent, and still the catalogue of even these will be far from complete. The 
researches of Hunter and of Tenon had already afforded valuable contributions 
to the theory of the development of the teeth ; it was Cuvicr who earned this theory 
to a perfection beyond which there can be little to desire. Those little bones 
which we call teeth appear at first glance to be very simple, and scarcely to 
merit the attention of the observer. These little bodies, however, are very 
complex ; the}' possess secretory organs, as their gerrn^ their proper membrane ; 
secreted substances, such as their enamel, i\\G\r ivory ; and each of these sub- 
stances appears in its turn, each at a fixed epoch. They spring up, are devel- 
oped, push forth their roots, die, fall, and are replaced by others with admiral)lo 
order and regularity. Nor is it less admirable, though under another point of 
view, that all the circumstances of their organization and development are to- 
day rigorously demonstrated. It was chiefly through a study of the teeth of 
the elephant, where everything is seen on a large scale, that M. Cuvier succeeded 
in establishing the precise epoch at which each part of the tooth is formed, and 
by what mechanism it is formed ; how each of these parts, having performed its 
function of productive organ, disappears; how the entire tooth disappears in its 
turn to give place to another, whicli will also have its development, both in the 
whole and in detail, its point of complete organization, and its decay and its falL 

Perrault, Herissant, Vicq-d'Azyr, had, before Cuvier, distinguished some points 
in the structure of the vocal organs of birds ; he has made that structure known 
in a general manner and by detailed comparisons. It was he also who first 
placed in a clear light tlie singular arrangement of the organ of hearing, and 
still more singular aiTangement of the nasal yo55« in the cetaceous tribes. 

Every one knows the marvellous metamorphosis experienced by the frog in 
passing from the state of fcetus or tadpole to the adult state. It is known that 
after having respired, in the first case, b}'^ giUs, like the fishes, it respires, in the 
second, T)y lungs, like the terrestrial animals. M. Cuvier has taught us the 
structure of the organs of respiration and of circulation in a species of reptiles, 
which presents something still more curious. The frog is by turns a fish in its 
first stage, and a reptile in its second. These new reptiles, still more singular, 
such as the protcus, the axolofl, the siren, are all their life re})tiles and fish; 
have all the time l)oth hranchice or gills and lungs, and can hence breathe alter- 
nately in the air and in water. 

M. Cuvier again was the first to give a connected comparison of the brain in 
the four classes of vertebrate animals; the first to point (nit the relations of the 
development of that organ with the development of intelligence, a brant^h of 
comparative anatomy which has since become so fruitful and extensive ; the first, 
in fine, to deduce in a rigorous manner from the respective quantity of respira- 
tion of these animals, not only the degree of their natural heat, but that of all 
their other faculties, their force of movement, their subtility of perception, their 
rapidity of digestion. 

But the most novel and brilliant application which he has made of compara- 
tive anatomy, is that which relates to fossil hones. Every one now knows that 
the globe which we inhabit presents, almost everywhere, irrefutable traces of 
stupendous revolutions. The productions of the actual creation, of living natiu'e, 



MEMOIR OF CUVIER. 129 

everywhere cover the remains of an earlier creatiuii, of a mined nature. On 
tlie one hand immense masses of shells and of other marine bodies are found at 
great distances from any sea, at heiiihts to which no sea could now attain, and 
from thence have been derived th(? first facts in support of all those traditions of 
deluges preserved among so many tribes of mankind. On the other hand, the 
large bones discovered from time to time in the bowels of the earth, in the caverns 
of the mountains, have given rise to tliose other popular traditions, not less 
ditiused and not less ancient, of races of giants which have peoj).led the world in 
its tirst ages. 

The traces of the revolutions of our globe have, therefore, at all times im- 
pressed the minds of men, but they long impressed them in vain, and only with 
a fruitless astonishment. For a long time, indeed, ignorance Avas carried to such 
a point that an opinion very nearly universal, and 1 speak not here of popular 
opinion, but of the o])inion of savants and philosophers, regarded the stones 
charged with the impressions of animals or plants and the shells found in the 
earth as sports of nature. " It was necessary," says Fontenelle, " that a common 
potter, who knew neither Latin nor Greek, should dare, about the end of the 
sixteenth century, to say in Paris, and in the face of all the doctors, that the 
fossil shells were real shells, deposited heretofore by the sea in the places where 
they were then found ; that animals had impressed on the figure-bearing stones 
all their different figures, and that he should boldly defy the whole school of 
Aristotle to contest his proofs." 

• This potter was Bernard Palissy, renowned for having made barely a first step 
in a route traversed since then by so many great men, and which has conducted 
them to such astonishing discoveries. In truth, the ideas of Palissy could 
scarcely be expected to attract notice at the ei)och when they api)eared, and it 
was not till about a century later — that is to say, toward the close of the seven- 
teenth century — that they began to revive, and, again to recall an expression of 
Fontenelle's, " to thrive in the world as they deserved to do." But from that 
time such was the activity put i'orth, both in collecting the remains of organized 
bodies buried beneath the surface of the earth and in studying the strata which 
contain them, and under this twofold relation so rapidly were significant facts 
multiplied, that some bold and persj)icacious minds were not afraid even then to 
combine them iti generalizations and attempt to ascend to their causes. It was, 
in effect, at the close of the seventeenth centuiy, and during the first half of the 
eighteenth, that the celebrated systems of Burnet, Leibnitz, Woodward, Wins- 
ton, and Biiffon made their appearance — all of them premature and more or less 
erroneous, no doubt, but productive of this advantage, that they iiccust(m)ed the 
human intellect to contemphue these astounding phenomena in a philosophic 
spirit, and not to shrink from measiuing itself against them. 

Another advantage, of even greater moment, was, that all these systems, by 
exciting a strong interest, presently drew together from all jiarts observations at 
once more numerous, precise and c()mi)hjle ; the first effect of which was to over- 
turn all that was imaginary and al»sunl in those systems; and the second, to 
found on their ruins the true theory, the positive history of the earth. 

The eighteenth century, which advanced so raj)idly in so many directions, per- 
haps witnessed nothing more rapid than the progress of the science of which 
we are speaking. The same century which in its first moiety had seen all the 
systems just spoken of, structures as brilliant as frail, either rise or fall, this cen- 
tury saw, in its second, the first fouiidations of the enduring monument which 
was to succeed them, cast by the hands of a Pallas, a Deluc, a do Saussure, a 
Werner, a Bliunenbach, a Camper, and others who so ablv seconded them. 

Among these advances it is proper that I should here es})ecially recall those 

which relate to the fo.ssil remains of organized bodies. It was these remains, in 

effect, subsisting witnesses as they are of so many revoluti(jns, so many violent 

subversions sustained by the globe, which had given rise to the first hypothesis 

9 s 



130 MEMOIR OF CUVIER. 

of i\\e fantastic geology; and it was agfiin these remains wliich, in the Lands of 
M. Cuvier, furnished the results the most evident and the laws best ascertained 
of i\iG positive geology. The researches of M. Cuvier were principally directed 
to the fossil bones of quadrupeds — a part of the animal kingdom till then little 
studied under this new point of view, but the study of which was calculated to 
lead to consequences nuxch more precise and decisive than that of any other 
class. 

I have already mentioned the large fossil bones discovered at different epochs, 
and the absnrd ideas of giants, which were renewed at each discovery which was 
made of them. Daubenton was the first to overthrow all these ideas ; it was he 
who first ajjplied comparative anatomy to the determination of the remains in 
question ; but, as he himself avows, this science was as yet far from being suffi- 
ciently advanced to furnish, in all cases and with sufficient certainty, the species 
or genus of animal to which an unknown and isolated bone might appertain, and 
yet such was the problem to be solved. The memoir in which Daubenton 
attempted for the first time the solution of this important problem was of the 
date of 1762. 

In 1769 Pallas published his first memoir on the fossil hones of Siberia. It 
was not without surprise that the demonstration was here seen of the fact that 
the elephant, the rhinoceros, the hippopotamus — animals which at present live 
only under tlie torrid zone — had heretofore inhabited the most northern portions 
of our continents. The second memoir of Pallas could not but excite still more 
wonder, for he there reports the fact, which could scarcely seem crediljlc a+, 
that time, that a rhinoceros had been found entire in the frozen earth with its 
skin and flesh — a fact since renewed, as is known to all, in the elephant discov- 
ered in 1806 on the shores of the Glacial sea, and so well preserved that dogs 
and bears devoured its flesh and disputed its remains with one another. 

The impulse once communicated by Pallas, the relics of animals of the south 
were soon found, not only in the countries of the north, but in all the regions of 
the old as well as new world. Buffon, from tlie.se facts, hastened to deduce his 
hypothesis of the gradual refrigeration of the polar regions and of the succes- 
sive migration of animals from tlie north to the south. But the last fact observed 
by Pallas, and which has just been cited, had already overthrown this assump- 
tion. T^hat fact effectually demonstrated, in the most formal manner, that the 
refrigeration of the globe, far from having been gradual, had, on the contrary, 
necessarily been sudden, instantaneous, without any gradation ; it demonstrated 
that the same instant which destroyed the animals in question had rendered the 
country of their habitat glacial ; for had they not been frozen as soon as killed 
it is evident that they could not have descended to us with their flesh and skin 
and every part in perfect preservation. The Inqiothesis of gradual refrigeration 
being thus untenable, Pallas substituted that of an irruption of water ctjming 
from the southeast — an irruption which, he maintained, would have transported 
into the north the animals of India ; but this second hypothesis was not more 
happy than the first, for the fossil animals are very different from those of India, 
and indeed from all animals now living — a final fact more extraordinary still 
than all which preceded it, and which it was reserved for M. Cuvier to place in 
the clearest light. 

The fact of an ancient creation of animals entirely distinct from the existing 
creation, and long since entirely lost, is the fundamental fact on which rest the 
most evident proofs of the revolutions of the globe. It cannot, therefore, be 
without interest to observe how the idea of this fact, assuredly the most extra- 
ordinary which scientific research has been enabled to discover and to prove, 
had its first rise, its subsequent development, and final confirmation. 

We have seen how, toward the end of the sixteenth century, Bernard Palissy 
had ventured, first among the moderns, to maintain that the bones, the impres- 
sions, the fossil shells, so long regarded as casual freaks of nature, were the 



MEMOIR OF CUVIER. 131 

remains of real creatures, the veritable spoils of organized bodies. In 1G70 
Augustine Scilla renewed the opinion of Palissy and sustained it with vigor. 
Shortlv after, in 1683, Leibnitz lent to it the authority of his name and genius. 
Finally, from the first half of the eighteenth century, BufFon reproduced it with 
still more splendor, and directly made it popular. 

But arc these organized beings, of which innumerable relics ave scattered 
everywhere, the analogues of those which are now living, whether in the places 
where these relics are found or in others? or have, indeed, their species, their 
genera, perished? It is here that the difiiculty lies, and we may well believe 
tliat this dithculty would never have been resolved, at least with coiiii)lete cer- 
tainty, as long as the inquiry had been restricted, for example, to the study of 
f(jssil shells or of fishes. It would have availed little, in efi'ect, to find new 
shells, new fishes ; we should have been always at liberty to suppose that their 
species were still living, whether in distant seas or at inaccessible depths. Not 
so, however, as regards quadrufjeds. The number of these is greatly more lim- 
ited, especially for the larger species , we may count on attaining a knowledge of 
all of them — how vastly more easy then to satisfy ourselves whether certain 
unknown bones belong to one of these species still living, or whether they pro- 
ceed from such as are lost. 

This it is which gives to the study of fossil quadrupeds a peculiar import- 
ance and to the deductions which may be drawn from it a force wliich deduc- 
tions derived from a study of most of the other classes (jould not possess. Buffbn 
seems t(j have felt this. It was chiefly on the great fossil bones of Siberia and 
Canada that he sought to sustain the conjecture (foi-, in view of the state of 
comparative anatomy at the time when he wrote, it could be only a conjecture) 
of certain lost species. Besides, even this conjecture was so im})erfectly estab- 
lished in his own mind, at least in relation to quadrupeds, that after having 
regarded, in his Thcoric de la Tcrve, all the animals to which these extraordinary 
bones had belonged as lost, he afterwards declared, in his EpO'jKCs de la Nature, 
that he no longer recfignized more than a single lost species — that which has 
been called the masfodmi — and that all the other bones in question are merely 
those of the elephant and the hippopotamus. 

Camper went much further, as might have been expected, for comparative 
anatomy had not failed to advance by long strides since the days of BufFon. 
In 1787, in a memoir addressed to Pallas, Camper boldly enunciates the opinion 
that certain species have been destro3^ed by the catastrophes of the globe, and, 
moreover, sustains it by the first really positive facts, though still very incom- 
plete, which had yet been advanced in its support. Thus, in proportion to the 
determination of fossil bones has been the progress of the idea of lost animals, 
and it has always been by the light of comparative anatomy that this progress 
was accomplished. It was, in ettect, this light of com])arative anatomy which 
had l)een wanting to so many laborious researches of so many naturalists. But 
it is easy to see that towards the ejjoch of which I speak, tcjwards the close, 
namely, of the eighteenth century, everything was prepared for the long-sought 
solution; that the moment was at hand for some revelation, some complete and 
definitive result respecting these strange and marvellous phenomena. 

The 1st Pluviose, an IV, (February, 1796,) being the day of the first public 
session held by the National Institute, M. Cuvier read before the assembled body 
his memoir on iha fossil species of the elephant compared with the living species. 
It was in this memoir that he announced, for the first time, his views on extinct 
animals. Thus, on the same day when the Institute opened the first of its public 
sessions, was (Ji)ened also the career of the greatest discoveries which natural 
history has n)ade in our age : a singular coincidence, which the history of the 
sciences should nijt fail to mark and commemorate. 

M. Cuvier had now initiated that brilliant series of researches and lalxjrs 
which occupied him so many years, and which, during the whole time, called 



132 MEMOIR OF CUVIER. 

forth renewed surprise <anfl admiration on tlie part of Lis contemporaries. In this 
first memoir he does not confine liisnself to demonstrating that the fossil elephant 
is a distinct species from the existing species — that it is a species extinct and 
lost ; he expressly declares that the greatest step which could be made towards 
the perfection of the theory of the earth, would be to prove that none of those 
animals whose remains are found dispersed over nearly all points of the globe, 
any longer exist. Pie adds that what he then established in regard to the 
cJe])liant he would soon establish in a not less incontestable manner in regard to 
the fossil, rliinoceros, hear, and deer, all of them species equally distinct from 
living species, all of them equally lost. Finally he concludes with the following 
remarkable words, in which he seemed to announce all that he has since dis- 
covered : " If it be asked why w'e find so many remains of unknown animals, 
while we find none of which it can be said that they belong to species that we 
know, it will be seen how probable it is that they have all pertained to the 
creatures of a world anterior to our own ; to creatures destroyed by some catas- 
trophe of the globe ; to creatures whose place has been filled by those which 
exist to-day." 

Thus the idea of an entire creation of animals anterior to the actual creation, 
the idea of an entire creation destroyed and lost had at last l)een fully conceived; 
and had found an utterance w'hich proved to be a final solution of the doubts 
which, for a century, had so strongly occupied the human mind. 

But, in order to transform into a positive result views thus vast and elevated, 
it was necessary to assemble from all quarters the remains of the lost animals, 
to pass them in review, to study them under this new aspect ; it was necessary to 
compare them all, one after the other, Avith the remains of living animals ; and, 
first of all, it was necessary to create and determine the art itself by which this 
comparison was to be made. 

Now, for a right conception of all the difficulties of this new method, this new 
art, it is sufficient to remark that the debris of the animals in question, \\\e fossil 
hones, are almost always isolated and dispersed ; that often the bones of several 
species, and those the most diverse, are mingled in confusion ; that almost always 
these bones are mutilated, broken, reduced to fragments. It w'as requisite, there- 
fore, to refer each bone to the species to which it pertained ; to reconstruct, if 
possible, the complete skeleton of each species, without omiting any of the 
pieces which were its own, without intercalating any which were foreign to it. 
Let us now represent to ourselves this confused intermingling of mutilated and 
imperfect relics assembled together by M. Ouvier ; let us conceive each bone, 
each portion of a bone, taking its place under his skilful hand, each uniting 
itself to the bone or portion of bone to which it had pertained ; let us 
observe all these species of animals, destroyed for so many ages, thus rising 
before us in their various forms, with each character, each attribute restored, and 
we shall scarcel}^ realize that we are witnessing a simple anatomical operation, 
but rather a sort of resurrection ; nor will it abate anything of the prodigy that 
it is a resurrection effected at the voice of science and of geinus. 

I say at the voice of science. The metliod employed by M. Cuvier for this 
wonderful reconstruction is, in effect, but the application of the general rules of 
comparative anatomy to the determination of fossil hones. And these rules 
themselves are a not less grand, less admirable discovery than the surprising 
results to which they have led. 

It has been seen above how a rational principle, that of the subordination of 
organs, everywbere applied, everywhere reproduced in establishing the groups 
of the method, had changed the face of the classification of the animal king- 
dom. The principle which presided at the reconstruction of lost species is 
that of the correlation of forms, a principle by means of which each part of an 
animal may be given by each other part, and the whole animal by a single part. 
In a mechanism as complex, and yet as essentially a unit as that which constitutes 



MEMOIR OF CUVIER. 133 

tlie animal frame, it is evident that all the parts must necessarily be constructed 
one with referenc(; to the others, so as to correspond, to athipt themselves to one 
another, to form, in a word, by their asseml)lage, one beiny, one unique system. 
A single one of these jiarts, therefore, cannot change its form without necessitating 
a change in form of all tlie others. Hence from the form of one part may be 
deduceil the form of all the other parts. 

Suppose a carnivorous animal ; it will necessarily have the organs of sense 
and of movement; the claws, teeth, stonia(;h, intestines, adaj)ted for scenting, 
seizing, tearing, digesting its animal prey, and all these conditions will be 
rigorously linked with one another ; for, if one be wanting, the others w^ould be 
without efiect, without result ; the creature could not subsist. Suppose, on the 
other hand, an herbivorous animal ; all this assemblage of conditions will have 
changed. The teeth, the feet, the stomach, the intestines, the organs of move- 
ment and of sense, will all have assumed new forms, and these new forais will 
always be proportioned and related one to the others. From the form of a sin- 
gle one of these parts, therefore, from that of the teeth alone, for example, we 
may infer, and infer with certainty, the form of the feet, that of the jaws, that 
of the stomach, that of the intestines. 

All the parts, all the organs, are deducible, then, one from the other ; and 
such is the rigor, such the infallibility of this deduction, that M. Cuvier has been 
often known to recognize an animal by a single bone, nay by the facet of a 
bone ; that he has been known to determine unknown genera and species from 
a few broken 1)ones, and this from such or such a bone taken at random, recon- 
structing in this way the entire animal from a single one of its parts, and causing 
it to reappear, as at v.ill, from each of them ; results which cannot be recalled 
without recalling in effect all that admiration, mingled with surprise, which they 
at first inspired, and which is not yet exhausted. 

That precise and rigorous method of distinguishing bones confounded together — 
of refeiTing each bone to its species ; of reconstructing the entire animal from 
some of its parts — that method once conceived, it was no longer by isolated 
species but by groups and masses that these extinct populations, antique monu- 
ments of the revolutions of the globe, reappeared. An idea might then be 
formed not only of their extraordinary appearance, but of the prodigious multi- 
tude of their species. It was seen that they com})rised creatures of all classes, 
quadi'upeds, birds, reptiles, fishes, down to Crustacea, mollusks, and zoophj'tes. 
Kor, though I speak here only of animals, docs the study of fossil vegetables 
fin-nish consequences less curious than those drawn from the animal kingdom. 
All these organized beings, all these first occupants of the globe, are distinguished 
by their proper characters, and often by characters the most singular and 
grotesque. 

Among the quadrupeds, for examide, we first observe the pcdmotlicriumj the 
anoplothcrhim, those strange specimens of pachydennata, discovered by M. 
Cuvier in the environs of Paris, and of which none bearing this ]')eculiar charac- 
ter has descended to our times. Afterwards comes the niammoth, that elephant 
of Siberia, covered with long hairs and a thick wool ; the mastodon, an animal 
almost as large as the mammoth, and whose teeth, armed with points, long 
caused it to be regarded as a carnivorous elephant, together w'ith those enormous 
sloths, the mcgatlicrkun, the mcgahiii/x, animals of which the existing sjx'cies do 
not exceed the size of a dog, while some of those which are lost equalled the 
largest rhinoceros. Still more extraordinary were the reptiles of those first ages 
of the world,* whether from their gigantic jiroportions, for there were lizards as 
large as whales, or from the singularity of their structure, for some; had the aspect 
of the cctaccu or marine mammifers, and others the neck and beak of birds, and 
even a kind of wing. 

* Such as tbe meffalosaurus, which was more thau GO feet iu length ; the irldhyosaiinis ani 
the. picsiosaurus, wliosciii(;mbersarecall(;d thoseofthc crtacca ; thi'ptcrodiictiih, wliit-h liave a 
very loug projection from tiie auterior extremity, bearing a inembraue or soit of wing. 



134: MEMOIR OF CUVIER. 

And what is still more surprising- is that all these animals did not live at one 
and the same epoch ; that there were several generations, several populations, 
so to speak, successively created and destroyed. Of these M. Cuvier has 
counted as many as three distinctly marked. The first comprised the mollusks, 
the fishes, the reptiles, all those monstrous reptiles just spoken of; among them 
were already found some marine mammifers, but no terrestrial mammifer, or 
scarce! v any, then existed. The second epoch was chiefly characterized by those 
strange species of pachydermata of the environs of Paris, above mentioned, and 
it was now only that the terrestrial mammifers began to predominate. The third 
was the epoch of the mammoth, the mastodon, the rhinoceros, the hippopotamus, 
the gigantic sloths. A remarkable fact is that among all these animals there is 
scarcely one of the quadntmana ; scarcely one of the ape tribe.* And still 
more remarkable, there was no man ; the human race therefore was neither 
cotemporaneous with any of these lost species nor with the catastrophes which 
destroyed them t 

Thus, then, after the age of reptiles, after that of the first terrestrial mammi- 
fers, after that of the mammoths and mastodons, arrived a fourth epoch, a fourth 
succession of created beings, that which constitutes the actual population, that 
which may be called the age of man, for from this age only dates the human 
species. The creation of the animal kingdom, therelbre, has undergone several 
interruptions, several successive destructions ; and what is not less wonderful, 
thouo-h altogether certain, is, that there was an epoch, the first of all, when no 
oro-anizcd being, no animal, no vegetable existed on the globe. 

All these extraordinary facts are demonstrated by the relations of the remains 
of organized beings to the strata which form the crust of the globe. Thus there 
was a first epoch when these beings did not exist, for the primitive or primordial 
formations contain none of their remains ; the reptiles prevailed in the following 
epoch, for their remains abound in the formations which succeed the primitive ; 
the surface of the earth has been several times covered by the seas, and again 
left dry, for the remains of marine animals cover turn by tm'n the remains of 
terrestrial animals and are alternately covered by them. 

Thus has science, guided by genius, been enabled to ascend to the most remote 
epochs of the history of the earth ; to compute and determine those epochs ; to 
mark both the first moment when organized beings appeared on the globe, and all 
the variations, modifications, and revolutions they have experienced. It were uuj ust, 
doubless, to convey the impression that all the proofs of this great history have 
been collected by M. Cuvier ; but even where others after him have made discoveries 
in the same field, some portion of glory must redound to him by whose footsteps 
thev have been guided. It may be said, indeed, that the more valuable those 
discoveries, the more important all those which shall be made in the future, the 
more will his renown be enlianced, even as the name of Columbus has been 
exalted in proportion as the navigators who have come after him have rendered 
better known the whole extent of his conquest. 

This unknown world opened to naturalists is undoubtedly the most brilliant 
discovery of M. Cuvier. Yet I do not hesitate to place beside it that other dis- 
covery, in my eyes not less important, of the true method in natural history. 

The need of methods to our understanding arises equally from the need it has 
of distinguishing in order to know, and the need it has of generalizing what it 
knows in order to be able to embrace and clearly to conceive the greatest possi- 

* Since the above was written some remains of apes have been found among fossil bones. 
See Hint, des truvaux dc M. Cuvier. 

t More recent investigations have led to a diiJ'erent conclusion ; from these it seems to have 
been establislied that the appearance of man upon earth must be carried back much further 
than has been generally supposed ; that he witnessed more than one of the catastrophes 
alluded to, and was obliged to dispute his mundane inheritance with several of the gigantic 
or ferocious animals of the " third epoch." See Smithsonian Report for 1867, " Man as a cotem- 
porary of the mammoth, &c." — Tr. 



MEMOIR OF CUVIER. 135 

"blc number of facts and of ideas. All method has, thei'cfore, a double object, 
namely, the distinction and the generalization oi facts. Now, till ]\Lf Cuvior's 
method had been limited to sej)aratin<;' and distino'uisliin^' ; it was he who made 
of it, as I have already said, an instrument of ij;-eneralization, by which he has 
rendered a lasting service I'iot only to natural history, but, I venture to assert, to 
all the sciences. 

For method, understandinc;- thereby the true method, is essentially one. Its 
object everywhere is to raise itself to the most i^'eneral relations, to the most sim- 
ple expression of things, and in such sort that all these relations shall spring 
one from the other, and all from particular facts which are the origin and source 
of them. It is this which Bacon meant when he said that all our sciences are 
but generalized facts, a phrase which admirably denotes the process followed by 
M. Cuvier, 

This generalization of facts was, in effect, the potent instrument by which he 
created the science of fossil remains ; by which he renewed, in every part, 
geology and comparative anatomv ; by which he was enabled, in every order of 
facts, to pnrsue them to their principle, and their ultimate ])rinciple, carrying 
zoological classitication to its rational principle, the subordinrttion of organs ; 
foimding the reconstruction of extinct animals o\\ the princnple of the correlation 
of forms; demonstrating the necessity of certain intervals, certain interruptions 
in the scale of beings, by the very impossibility of certain coexistencies, of cer- 
tain combinations of organs. It is in this habit of his intellect of ascending in 
everything to a principle unassailable and demonstrated that we nmst S(>ek the 
secret of that inimitable clearness which he sheds over all the subjects of which 
he treats ; for clearness results in all cases from the ordering of the thoughts 
and the unbroken chain of their inter-dependence. It is in this habit, moreover, 
that we find the reason why his opinions, in every kind, are so fixed, so final ; 
it is because he never contents himself with isolated and fortuitous relations, bur. 
always ascends to those which are necessary, and of these allows none to escape 
him. 

In M. Cuvier two things equally strike us: the extreme precocity of his views, 
for it was by his first memoir on the class vermes of Linnaeus that he reformed 
not only that class, but, through it, the whole of zoology ; it was by his lirst 
course of comparative anatomy that he recast the entire science and re-estab- 
lished it on a new Inisis ; it was by his first memoir on fossil olejihants that ho 
laid the foundation of a s(;ience wholly new, the science of extinct animals ; and 
again, that spirit of sequence, of perseverance, of undiverted constancy, by which 
he developed and fertilized his views, consecrating an entire life to establish, to 
demonstrate them, to mature them by ex})eriment, to transform them finally from 
sim})le views, fruits of a bold conception, of a sudden inspiration, into truths of 
fact and observation. 

If we follow this celebrated man in the different paths he has traced, we iind 
throughout tliose domiiuuit qualities of his genius, order, comprehensiveness, 
elevation of thought, clearness, precision,* force of expression. We find all 
these qualities united to a style still more animated, varied, and forcible in those 
llloges Historigiics which long formed so large a part of the charm and eclat of 
the public meetings of the academy. On these memoirs praise has been already 
lavishly bestowed, nor would it be easy too highly to extol the spirit and anima- 
tion wliich diffuse through them so much nmvement and life ; the art ot so 
pi(piantly recounting an anecdote or painting a characteristic; the vigor of con- 
ception which binds all the i)arts of th(! discourse into a whole so comj)actly put 
together that it might seem to have been created at a single stroke ; the singular 
a[)titnde, in line, to rise to the most varied and comprehensive considerations and 
to depict so mauy different ])ersonages in a manner e(pially just and striking. 
If examined with somewhat closer attention wo remark, and with perhaps even 
greater pleasure, the same sagacity of observation, the same analogical subtlety, 



136 MEMOIR OF CUVIER. 

the same art of comparing and subordinating, of ascending to the ultimate gcn- 
eralizatid^i of facts, here transferred to another fiekl ; and, in addition to all this, 
those luminous and penetrating touches which suddenly arrest the attention of 
the reader and transport him to the level of an elevated order of ideas. 

M. Cuvier seems, in effect, to have been destined to give a new character to 
whatever passed througli his hands. Into his instructions upon natural history 
he introduced those philosophic and general views which had scarcely before 
penetrated to the schools. In his eloquent lectures the history of the sciences 
became the history of the human mind itself, for in going back to the causes of 
their progress and their errors he was always careful to point out that those 
causes were to be found in the right or the wrong processes whicli the human 
mind had pursued. It was here that, to use one of his own happy expressions, 
he submitted the human mind to exjjeriment, showing, by the whole testimony of 
the history of the sciences, that the most ingenious hypotheses, the most brilliant 
systems, do but pass and disappear, and that facts alone remain ; opposing every- 
where to the methods of speculation, which have never produced any durable 
result, the methods of observation and experiment, to which we owe all the dis- 
coveries and all the real knowledge which constitute the actual heritage of man- 
kind. 

Ah ! in what mouth could these great results, drawn from the history of science — 
that expcrinienicd theory of the human mind, if I may so speak — have more 
authority than in his? Who has shown himself more constantly attached to 
observation, to experiment, to the rigorous study of facts, while at the same time 
enriching his era with truths the most novel and sublime? 

Since men have observed with precision, and have pursued experiment in a 
consecutive manner, a space of some two centuries, they ought, it would seem, 
to have renounced the mania of seeking to divine^ instead of observing ; for, in 
the first place, it must prove wearisome in the long run to be always divining 
unskilfully ; and, in the next place, it should by this time have been recognized 
that what we imagine is always below what really exists, and that, in a word, 
and to consider only the brilliant side of our theories, the marvellous of the 
imagination is ahvays very far from approaching the marvellous of nature. 

Tlie delivery of M. Cuvier was in general grave, and even somcAvhat slow, 
especially towards the opening of his lectures ; but soon his utterance became 
animated by the movement of his thoughts, and then this movement, communi- 
cated by the thought to the expression, the penetrating voice, the inspiration of 
Ids genius reflected in his eyes and on his features, all conspired to produce upon 
his audience the most vivid and profound impression. One felt exalted even 
less by those grand and unexpected ideas which shone throughout than by a 
certain force of conception and of thought which seemed l>y turns to arouse and 
penetrate the mind of the hearer. Into the career of the professor he carried 
the same character of invention as into the career of research and discovery. 
After having remodelled the school of comparative anatomy at the Jardin des 
Flantes, wo h.ave seen him convert a simple chair of natural history at the Col- 
lege of France into a true chair of the philosophy of the sciences : two crea- 
tions whicli well portray his genius, and which in the eyes of posterity must 
reflect honor on our age. 

M. Cuvier has left memoirs of his life, designed, as he himself writes, for him 
who should have to pronounce his eulogy before this Academy. The care which 
he has thus taken in favor of my auditory makes it imperative on me to add 
some details taken from those memoirs: "I have composed (he savs in begin- 
ning) so many eloges historiqucs that there is no presumption in thinking that 
some one will conijiose mine, and knowing by expeiience what it costs the authors 
of this sort of writings to become informed respecting the life of those of whom 
they have to speak, I wish to spare that trouble to liim who shall occupy him- 
self with my own. Linnaius, Tenon, and others, perhaps, have not judged this 



MEMOIR OF CUVIER. 137 

attention to bo bcncatli tliem, and they liavo therein rendered a service to the 
history of tlie sciences. Tliese (he continues) are respectahle examples, and 
whicli I may oppose to those wlio sliall tax me on tliis point with a trifling vanity.'*' 

He did not foresee that the details of his life were d(;stined to become so popuhir 
that he who should have the honor of pronouncing" his eulogy would scarcely 
dare to reproduce them. 

George Cuvier* was born August 23, 1769, at Montbeliard, a city then belong- 
ing to the duchy of Wnrteraberg, but which has since been reunited to France. 
His family was originally from a village of the Jura which still bears the name 
of Cuvier. At the era of the lleformation it had established itself in the little 
principality of JMontbeliard, where some of its members have filled distinguished 
places. The grandfather of M. Cuvier was of one of the poorer branches ; he 
was town clerk. Of two sons whom he had, the second entered a Swiss regiment 
in the service of France, and having become, through good conduct and braver}', 
an officer and chevalier of the order of merit, married, at the age of fifty years, 
a woman still quite young, and whose memory should be dear to posterity, for 
she was the mother of Cuvier, and, moreover, his first preceptor. 

A woman of superior mind, a mother full of tenderness, the instruction of her son 
soon became her whole occupation. Although she did not know Latin, she made 
him repeat his lessons ; execute his drawings under her eyes ; read to her many 
books of histor}- and literature ; and it was thus that she developed, that she 
nourished in her young pupil that pastyou for reading, and that curiosity about 
all tilings, which, as M. Cuvi(!r himself says in the memoirs intrusted to me, had 
formed the mainspring of his life. 

At an early age there was seen in this child that prodigious aptitude for all, 
mental labor, which still later formed one of the distinctive traits of his genius. 
Everything aroused, everything excited his activity. A copy of Bnfl'on, which 
he finds by chance in the library of one of his relations, suddenly kindles his 
taste for natural history. He immediately sets about copying the figures and 
Cftloring them from the descriptions — a labor which, at so early an age", certainly 
denoted a sagacity of observation of a high order. 

The residence of theyoung Cuvier at the academy' of Stuttgard is too well known 
to be long dwelt upon. The sovereign of a small state, Charles, duke of Wiu'- 
temberg, seemed to have proposed to show to the greatest nations what they 
might do for the instruction of youth. There were here collected in a magnifi- 
cent establishment more than 400 pupils, who received' the lessons of more than 
80 masters. Here were trained, at the same time, painters, sculpiors, musicians, 
diplomatists, jurists, physicians, soldiers, j)rofessors in all the sciences. Of the 
higher faculties there were five : law, medicine, administration, military art, and 
commerce. The course of philosophy finished, the pupils passed into one of 
these faculties. Cuvier chose that of administration, and the motive he assigns 
for it should be reported : " It was," he says, " because in this faculty there was 
much to do with natural history, and, consequently, frequent opportunities of 
herborizing and of visiting the cabinets." 

Everything in the life of a great man interests us, but doubly so whatever 
serves to throw light on the ])rocess of his labors. We would gladly follow him 
through the whole coin'se which he has traversed in changing the lace of the 
sciences, and even from his earliest steps would divine something of the direction 
and character of his thoughts. It has just been seen that our naturalist, yet a 
child, at sight of the first figin'es of n;vtural histcny which fall into his hands, at 
once c(jnceives the idea of coloring them after the descrii»lions. While still at 
Stuttgard one of the professors, whose lectures he had translated into French, 
makes liim a present of Linnieus. It was the tenth edition of the Siislhnc de 
.la nature, and this book forms, for ten years, his whole library of natural history. 
But, in default of books, he had the objects ; and this direct, exclusive study 

* His name in full was Georges L6opold Chretien Frederic Dugobert. 



138 MEMOIE OF CUVIER. 

of the objects engraved them much better in his mind than if, to use his own 
expression, he had had at his disposal any number of prints and descriptions. 
Besides, having neither figures nor descriptions he made them for himself. 

Still, all these excursions into natural history had not interfered with the pre- 
scribed studies ; he had borne off almost all the prizes ; had obtained the order 
of chevalier which was accorded to only five or six of all those young persons ; 
and, according to appearances, he might have promptly obtained an appointment. 
But, fortunately for him and for natural history — and these two destinies were 
thenceforth inseparable — the situation of his parents did not permit him to wait. 
It was necessary for him to decide, and the place of preceptor having been 
offered to him by a family of Normandy at the moment when he was quitting 
Stuttgard, he hastened to accept it, and at once set out for Caen, where he 
arrived July, 1788, being then something less than 19 years of age. 

From this moment his passion for natural history acquired new force. The 
family of Herici, to which he was attached, went to reside at a country seat of 
Oaux, a short distance from Fecamp. It was here that our young naturalist 
lived from 91 to 94, surrounded, as he says, with the most diversified products, 
lavished upon him, as if in eurulation, by the sea and land ; always in the midst 
of such objects, almost without books, having no one to whom he could commu- 
nicate his reflections, which, therefore, only acquired the greater depth and 
energy. It was at this period, in effect, that his mind began to open for itself 
new paths ; it was then that at the sight of some tcrebratulce, disniterred near 
Fecamp, he conceived the idea of comparing fossil with living species; that the 
dissection of some mollusks suggested to him that other idea of a reform to be 
introduced in the methodical distribution of animals; so that the germs of his 
two most important labors, the comparison of fossil with living species, and the 
reform of the classification of the animal kingdom, ascend to this epoch. 

From this epoch also date his first relations with M, Tessier, whom the 
storms of the revolution then retained at Fecamp, and who had there occupied 
for some time the place of ph3^sician-in-chief of the military hospital. M. Tes- 
sier could not see the young Cuvier -without being struck with the extent of his 
• knowledge. He first engaged him to deliver a course of botany to the physicians 
of his hospital ; he afterwards wrote to all his friends in Paris to impart to them 
the happy discovery which he had made, and especially to those of the Jardin 
des Plantes, who at once conceived the idea of calling the young naturalist 
thither as assistant of Mertrud, then in charge of the department of comparative 
anatomy. " Often," says M. Cuvier, in reference to this circumstance, " has a 
phrase of M. Tessier, in his letter to M. de Jussieu, recurred to me : You remem- 
ber, he said, tJiat it tvas I ivlio gave Belamhre to the academy ; in another walk 
this cdso ■will be a Belamhre." It was to M. Tessier, therefore, that the Academy 
of Sciences owed both Delambre and Cuvier. A man wdio should have rendered 
but these two services to the sciences might count on the respect and gratitude 
of all who cultivate them. But how much more vividly do such incidents touch 
us when they embellish a life wholly consecrated to science, its progress and 
application, and spent in a long succession of useful labors and virtuous actions ! 

It was said by Fontenellc to Ije a piece of good fortune on the part of savants, 
whom their reputation might afterwards call to the capital, to have had leisure 
to lay up a good stock of funds in the repose of a province. M. Cuvier's stock 
was so good that some montlis after his arrival in Paris, in 1795, his reputation 
already equalled that of the most celebrated naturalists, and the same year, which 
was also that of the creation of the National Institute, he was named adjunct of 
Daubenton and Lacepede, who formed the nucleus of the section of zoology. Tlie 
year following he connuenced the courses which l)ecame so rapidly celebrated at 
the central school of the Pantheon. In 1799, the death of Daubenton led to his 
a})pointment tothe nuichmore important chair of natural history at the college of 
Francx'; and, in 1802, Mertrud being dead, he became titular professor at the 
Jardin des Plantes. 



MEMOIK OF CUVIER V60 

It will be recollected tliat tlic functions of secretiuy of tlie Institute were at 
first temporary. M. Cuvier was called, among the first, to fulfil these functions 
in liis class, and soon afterwards, in 1803, a new org-anization of the learned 
body having re-established the perpetuity of these oilices he was chosen per- 
petual secretary for the ])hysical or natural sciences, with nearlj- entire unanimity. 

It was in this new ca])acity of })erpetual secretary that he coni})osed his mem- 
orable lieport on the progress of the natural Hcknccs since 1789. Delauibre had 
been chai'ged with the report on the mathematical sciences, and thus each class 
of the institute was called upon to present one on the sciences or arts which j'ell 
within its province. It is well known with what state the Emperor received 
these reports. The peculiar satisfaction which that of M. Cuvier gave him was 
expressed by a happy turn of words. " He has praised me," said the imperial 
personage, '' as I like to be praised." '' And yet," remarks M. Cuvier, " I had 
done no more than invite him to imitate Alexander, and to make his power 
instrumental to the progress of natural history." But this sort of praise is pre- 
cisely that which must most flatter a man who had comprehended all kinds of 
glory, and would willingl}^ remain a stranger to none. We are at liberty to 
think, morover, that the praise which has no other object but to induce a sover- 
eign to do worthy things is not unworthy of a philosopher. 

To all these occupations, as historian of the sciences, perpetual secretary, pro- 
fessor at the Museum and at the College of France, M. Cuvier added several 
others. He was named member of the council of the University in 1808, and 
master of re(piests in 1813. Nor was the Eestoration insensible to his merit. lie 
preserved his position, and was even invested with new functions. Appointed 
successively counsellor of state,* president of the commission of the interior, 
chancellor of public instruction, and finally, in 1831, peer of France ; his genius 
embraced all orders of ideas and lent itself to all kinds of labor. 

It may well be supposed that he was a mem])er of all the learned Academies 
of the world j for what Academy could have afforded to omit the inscription of 
his name on its list i And that which is an honor, of which there Avere few 
examples befoi'e him, he belonged to three Academies of the Institute, the Acade- 
mic Fran^aise, the Academy of Sciences, and ihat of Inscriptions and Belles- 
letters. 

His great renown brought to him, from all parts, whatever occurred in the 
way of observation and discovery. It was, moreover, in great part his genius, 
his lectures, his works, which animated all observers, and everywhere created 
them ; and never could it have been said of any man with mine truth than of 
him, that nature heard herself everywhere interrogated in his name. Hence 
there is nothing comparable to the rich collections which he created at the museum, 
and which were all j)laced in order by him. And when we think of that direct 
study of rrtyects which was the principal occupation of his life, and through which 
he has occasioned the outgrowth of so many results, it cannot surprise us that 
he was often heard to say : " That he believed himself to have been not less 
useful to science by his collections alone than by all his other works." 

In the course of a career so full of success and of honors, M. Cuvier had sus- 
tained not a few severe blows. He had Itjst his first two children, either a few 
days or a lew years after birth ; tlie third, who was a son, died at the age of 
seven, and all tliese sorrows were renewed, and with far more bitterness, when 
he lost his daughter, a young lady of rare (qualities, who offered, not onl}- in 
mind but in features, no faint resemblance to her father. In all the misfortunes 
of life his consolation was ordinarily sought in redoubled labor; but a consola- 
tion still more efficacious consisted in the afi'ectionate attentions with which his 
family, and above all, Madame Cuvier, were sedulous to surround hiui. 

If we consider the numerous public appointments of M. Cuvier, his miinter- 

* Hci was also baron and grand officer of the Legion of Honor. It la well to recall these 
titles ; a nation honors itseit by thus bestowing theuj. 



140 MEMOIK OF CUVIER. 

mitting- researclies, Lis voluminous and important -works, it seems astonisliing that 
a single life could liave sufficed for so much. But, besides the superior faculties of 
his understanding, he possessed an ardent curiosity which impelled him to the pur- 
suit of all knowledge ; a memory which partook of the wonderful, and a facility 
even still more wonderful of passing from one labor to another immediately, 
without effort ; a singular faculty, and which, perhaps, contributed more than 
any other to nudtiply his time and his energy. Moreover, no one ever made so 
thorough, and, if I may thus express myself, so methodical a study of the art of 
not losing a single moment. Each hour had its stated labor ; each labor had 
a cabinet whicl) was destined for it, and in which all was found that related to 
that labor; books, drawings, objects. Everything was prepared, everything 
foreseen, so that no external cause might intervene to distract or retard the mind 
in the com-se of its meditations and researches. The address of M. Cuvier was 
grave, and his was not a politeness which dift'used itself in words, but he possessed 
a goodness of heart and a kindness which were prone to proceed always directly 
to action. It might be said that in this kind also he dreaded anj^ loss of time. 

I need not, in concluding, recall to my auditors that death, so much deplored 
and so sudden, which surprised him in the midst of so many labors and great 
desio-ns. That event is too recent, the remembrance too painful, and the regrets 
of his colleagues in this Academy, still vivid and profound, are the homage most 
worthv of his memory.* Besides, in mj^ feeble sketch of the labors of this great 
man, I have less considered the man than the savant. I have chiefly sought to 
retrace that series of sublime truths for which the sciences are indebted to his 
genius, a genius which is henceforth immortal. 

His glory must increase with the progress of the sciences which he created. 
Time, Avhich effaces so many other names, perpetuates and surrounds with an 
ever renovated lustre the memory of those rare individuals who seem to have 
revealed new activities in the intellect, and to have given new forces to thought. 
And us their minds, outstripping their age, had posterity chiefly in view, so it is 
only posterity, it is only the succession of ages, from which they can expect all 
the gratitude and admiration which is due to them. 

» M. Cuvier died Sunday, May 13, 1832. 



HISTORY OF THE WORKS OF CUYIER.* 



By M. Flourens. 



ranslated for the Smithsonian Institution, by C. A. Alexander. 



I. — OP METHOD CONSIDERED IN" ITSELF. — KATIONAL METHODS. — EMPIEICAL 

METHODS. 

Metliod is a part of logic ; it is the approximation of like things, and the sep- 
aration of things unlike. Hence, there have always been methods, especially in 
natural history, where the number of objects is so great. It was in vain, then, 
for Buffon to revolt against methods ; in proportion, as passing from quadrupeds 
to bird s, he sees the number of species increase, he himself resorts to methodical 
approximations; he groups together like species, he constitutes genera; "he 
silently submits," says M. Cuvier, "to the necessity imposed on all of us, of 
classifying our ideas in order clearly to represent to ourselves their ensemble, their 
collective import." Aristotle himself had a method, and indeed an excellent one, 
at least for classes, t He knew that the cetacea are mammiferous | he distin- 
guishes in animals with white blood, the mollusca, the Crustacea, the insects, &c. § 
After the revival of letters the learned were content at first with the metliod of 
Aristotle ; but it was soon found necessary to extend it. 

Natural history always resolves itself into specific objects. Method really aids 
Bs only in so far as it leads to species ; and since it should lead to species, it is 
necessary that it should embrace all species. Now, before Linnajus, it was cus- 
tomary to stop, in several classes, at the genera ; in other classes, while proceed- 
ing to species, only a few were particularized. Linnseus proposed that method, 
the distinctive catalogue of beings, should embrace them all ; no species, there- 
fore, was neglected ; all were studied, independently of their shape, size, relative 
utility ; all were named. Twenty years after Linnaeus, the number of known 
beings was quintupled. 

Ou the other hand, specific names did not yet exist, only generic ones. Lin- 
naeus founded a nomenclature. Each species had two names : a suhstantiix name 
for the genus, an adjective name for the species. || The name of the species no 

* From the " Histoiro des Travaux de Georo^es Cuvier," by M. Flourens, late perpetual 
secrcfiiiy of the French Academy of Sciences, &c. 

tSee the fine eulogy of M. Cuvier Iiimself on the principles of Aristotle: "Far be it 
from us to detract from the glory of the great philosopher whom we recall. We think, on 
the contrary, that it is necessary to revive his principles, if we would give to natural history 
all its perfection, and we observe with satisfaction that they are beginning to revive." A 
siuprising tlnng, surely ! Aristotle had already discovered the great j)i inciples of the science 
twenty centuries ago ; and to rediscover those principles we must come down to Cuvier. 

X "The dolphin," he says, "has teats, and suckles its young." — Uist. oj Anivuds, Book If. 
External differences do not, in his t^yes. mask iiUernal resemblances ; he places the serpent, 
which has no members, by the side ofthf lizard, which has. "The serpent," he says, "en- 
tirely resembles the lizard, by supposing the latter to be Icngliiened and retrenching its feet." 

vS The strong envelope of the shell, however, imposes on him; and to the four natural 
classes: rnollusks, Crustacea, insects and zoophytes, he improperly joins that of the testiieca. 
Still, an attentive perusal of the work of Aristotle shows us a surprising numlier of just 
conceptions, even in what may be called the anatomy of detail. "The. ear," lie says, " \vm 
no opening into the brain, but into the palatcof the mouth." — Hist, of Animals, Book [. 
This was a plain indication of the eustacliiau tube. 

II It is this second name, proper to the species and commonly an adjective, which Linn.-uus 
calls the trivial name. 



142 HISTOEY OF THE WORKS OF CUVIER. 

longer changed, for species is a tiling fixed and changes not ; btit the name of 
the genus might change, for the genus only denotes relations, and relations may 
vary in proportion as the number of species varies. These simple ideas had, 
till then, not been comprehended. 

But Linnaeus, who rendered these two great services, is perhaps, of all nat- 
uralists, he who most contributed to the prevalence, at least lor a certain time, 
of the use of artificial methods. Now, an artificial method gives only the name 
of species ; the natural method alone gives the name and the relations of species. 
An artificial method may conduct to names, even while placing in approxima- 
tion objects the most dissimilar, and for the very reason that it gives only the 
name of objects. Thus the connections not being consecutive, the artificial 
method is not of a logical order. That method is alone logical in which species 
the most similar are placed beside one another, and species the most unlike are 
furthest removed from one another. Each group therein has the greatest possible 
number of common properties. And if the groups are contained one in another, 
if we ascend from one to others by a series of propositions more and more gen- 
eral, we possess the science entire. But what are the means for arriving at this 
logical or natural method ? These means are of two orders : rational or empirical. 

An organized being is a whole ; its different parts, therefore, have necessary 
relations to one another. Now, the more important any part, that is to sa^^, the 
more essential by the order of its functions, the more do its modifications involve 
corresponding ones in all the rest. Everything, therefore, consists in knowing 
the relative importance of the parts, and in subordinating one to the other in the 
method, as they are sul)ordinated in the organization itself. In this resides the 
whole rational principle of method. Thus, the nervous centres, the brain, the 
spinal marrow, by which the animal is essentially what it is, give the first groups 
of the method ; the respiratory and circulatorii centres, the lungs, the heart, by 
means of which it partakes of its present life, give the second ; the digestive cen- 
tres, by which it sustains that life, give the third, and so on in succession. 

The naturalists have onl}^ succeeded by long tentatives in conducting the dis- 
tribution of animals to the point of perfection which it has reached _: they have 
arrived at that point a posteriori ; they might have arrived at it a priori, by 
the direct determination* of the relative importance of the organs. Now, so far 
as the relative importance of the organs is known, we have a rational method ; a 
method a priori. When the relative importance of the organs is not known, we 
are guided by their constancy ; we have then only a method a posteriori, an em- 
pirical method. The most constant organ is regarded as the most important ; 
the constancy of a relation, taken as a fact, supplies the reason of that relation, 
until that reason is known. 

Thus, for example, all ruminating animals have the foot cloven ; all animals 
which have horns, ruminate, &c. These are constant relations, but what is the 
reason of this constancy ? We know it not. And j'et, since these relations are 
constant, we may employ them, with confidence, in our methods. Again, insects 
which breathe by means of trachea, are deficient in conglomerate and compact 
glands. Their secretory organs are only canals or simple tubes. We know at 
present the reason of this fact. It is because animals which respire by trachea 
have no circulation, and there needs a circulation to make the blood penetrate 
into conglomerate and compact glands. But before the reason of the fact was 
known, the fact itself was known ; it was shown to be constant ; and from the 
very circumstance of its being constant, it might thenceforth be employed in 
method. Constancy, therefore, represents importance. 

Thus, there are two kinds of method, or, to speak with more exactness, there 

* Direct detennination,wh\ch is only obtained through physiology. And herein, as has been 
ah'eady said, is the true secret of the great results obtained by M. Cuvier. It was because 
his vast genius embraced all— anatomy, physiology, zoology ; and made each of those sciences 
co-operate in turn to the progress of the others. 



HISTORY OF THE WORKS OF CUVIER. 143 

are, fur method, two distinct states : the rafioiitd and the empirical. And as 
metliod ib' always bound to be natural, when, in onh'r to become so, it has no 
longer the rational way, it becomes so by the em]>irical way ; when it has no longer 
tlie known importance of the organs to direct it, it is guided by their constancy. 

II. — CLASSIFICATION OF THE ANIMAL KINGDOM. 

* * * Linnaeus divided the animal kingdom into six ckasses : quadrupeds, 
birds, rcj^tilcs, fishes, insects, imd worms. No precise limit circumscribed these classes 
in which the cetacea were found among the fishes ; the cartilaginous fishes among 
the reptiles ; the Crustacea, the articulated worms, animals which have a true 
cii"Culation, wei*e ranged among the insects which have none ; and the intestinal 
worms, the polypes, the infusoria, the mc)llusks, even certain fishes were united 
and confounded in the class vermes, the last and most chaotic of all. * * 
Into this class, in effect, Linnaeus had introduced endless confusion, and Bru- 
guiures left it just as Linnaeus liad done. So little attention was still paid to the 
internal organization of these animals that the last-named author, for exam})le, 
taking- for niollusks all that had no shell, se])arates from the class in (question, 
under the name of testacea, all that have a shell, as if the slight external character 
of having a shell hindered the testacea from being true mollusks by virtue of their 
entire nature or internal organization. 

It was in 1795 thatM. Cuvier pointed out the extreme difference of the objects 
confounded in this class, and separated them distinctly, one from another, after a 
detailed examination and agreeably to characters derived from their organization 
itself. This examination produced a new general distribution of animals with 
tchitc blood into six classes, mollusks, crustaceans, worms, insects, echinoderms, 
and zoophytes. From this new distribution of the white-blooded animals dates 
the revolution of zoology. 

Still later M. Cuvier associated the crustaceans with the insects, on account of 
the common symmetry of their parts, and the articulated structure, alike common, 
of their memb(n-s and body ; he separated the annelidii, or worms with red blood, 
from the intestinal worms ; for he pointed out that the former have a true circu- 
lation, a distinc;t nervous system, an articulated body, while the others have 
neither circulation nor distinct nervous system, nor body properly articulated. 
He showed that the mollusks, which have so rich an organization, abrain, eyes, 
often very complex, sometimes ears, always numerous secretory glands, a double 
circulation, &c., should in the first place be raised greatly above the ptdyjies and 
other zoophytes, the greater part of which have not even distinct organs, and 
with which, nevertheless, they had been so long ranged ; and, in the next place, 
that the collective assemblage of these mollusks formed a group which, by the 
importance of its general characters and the number of species which comj)ose it, 
corresponds not to such or such a class or fraction of the vertebrate animals, but 
to all the vertebrata joined together ; and then, taking up each of the great masses 
of the animal kingdom, he saw that scarcely any of the general divisions there- 
toffu'e admitted could be sustained, at least with the characters and limits which 
had been thus far assigned to them. For instance, it was customary to op])ose 
the rertcbratc animals to the animals ivitliout vcrtebrcr, as if these two divisions 
had l;een of the same rank ; and to designate eipially l)y the name of class the 
whole of the mollusks and a mere fraction of the vertebrata, as if, in effect, the 
whole })ody of mollusks was only e(j'iivalent to a fraction or subdivision of the 
vertebrata, &c. Now, since the infinitely varied organization of the animals 
without vertebrae was at last known, it was impossible anv longer to pretend that 
there was not, between all these varied animals, vastly more difference than 
between certain vertebrates and certain others. But if, of these two divisions, 
one comprised structures far more varied than the other, the one could not bo 
equivalent to the other ; they were not of the same rank ; they should not then 



144 HISTOEY OF THE WORKS OF CUVIER. 

he called by the same name. In like manner, since the organization of the 
fliollusks had become known, it could no longer be pretended that there were 
not between these animals many more differences than between the animals of 
a single class of vertebrata ; and consequently again, since there was no parity 
between the beings comprised in these two divisions, iXiavc wasno parity of division, 
and there ought, therefore, to be no parit}' of name. 

But this was not all. By still comparing the structures, and taking them for 
a guide, it was not less evident that the crustaceans united to the insects, and these 
two groups to that of the tcorms with red hlood, or annelids, formed by their 
importance, by the number of their species, by their structures so essentially di verse, 
a third division, similar either to that of the vertebi'ata or to that of the moUusks ; 
and that all other animals, imited thenceforth under the name of zooplujtcs, formed 
a fourth division similar to each of the three preceding. Considered under this 
new point of view the animal kingdom presents therefore four grand divisions or 
branches : that of the verlchrata, that of the molluscas, that of the articidata, 
and that of the zoophyta. 

Each of these divisions is formed on a particular and distinct plan ; that is to 
say, one which cannot be reduced to that of the others ; and they are all like 
one another in being of the same order ; that is to say, that the beings they include 
present, in their structure, similar or equivalent resemblances or differences. 
Thus the vertebrata have their plan, the mollusks have theirs, the articulata, 
the zoophytes have theirs, and all these plans are alike circumscribed ; that is to 
say, that no shading, no intermediary, no lien, can make them pass from one to 
the other without a rupture, without a saltus. A kind of circumvallation separates 
them. We can pass by modifications more or less graduated from man, con- 
sidered in his organization to the other mammifers, from mammifers to birds, 
from birds to reptiles, from reptiles to fishes ; but from fishes to mollusks, from 
mollusks to articulata, from articulata to zoophytes, there is no longer any grad- 
ation or natural transition. All at once the plan changes and a new form shows 
itself; but taken in itself this new form, this new type, is equally constant, preva- 
lent, uniform ; all the mollusks repeat as exactly their own type as the vertebrata, 
the articulata, the zoophytes, repeat theirs. Thus, in the immense chain of the 
animal kingdom there are four great forms, four grand types, and there are but 
foul". 

This capital fact is equally worthy of note whether we consider it as showing 
that, with the exception of a few secondary modifications, all animals enter exactly 
into one or the other of these great forms, or whether Ave consider it as showing 
that between each of these great forms there is no shading, no giTidation, no 
intermediate form. The vertebrata alone have a spinal marrow, a long medullary 
cone, into the sides of which enter the nerves, and which is enlarged at its ante- 
rior extremity to form the encephalon; they alone have a double nervous system, 
that of the spinal marrow and that of the great s^nnpathetic ; they alone have a 
canal composed of bony or cartilaginous vertebrse. But all of them have this 
spinal marrow, this great sympathetic, these vertebras; all have senses to the 
number of five, horizontal ja\\s to the number of two, red blood, a muscular heart, 
a SA'stem of chylifenjus and absorbent vessels, a liver, a spleen, a pancreas, kid- 
neys, &c. In a word, the more we examine their whole organization the more 
resemblances do we discover. 

But the more differences do we also find as regards the other emhranchments. 
The mollushs, for example, have also a brain, though infinitely reduced ; but 
they have no spinal marrow, and consequently no vertebrte ; they have no great 
sympathetic, and their single nervous system, instead of being placed above the 
digestive canal, as in the vertebrate animals, is always placed, with the cxcepticm 
of the single ganglion which represents the brain, below that canal, being con- 
signed to the viscera; in fine, the_y have neither a true skeleton nor absorl)ent 
vessels, nor spleen, nor pancreas, nor veyia-porta, nor kidneys ; the organ of smell 



HISTORY OF THE WORKS OF CUVIER. 145 

is \vantin:£^ in all ; tliat of sight in many ; a single family possesses that of licariug, 
&c., bnt they all have a complete and double system of circulation, circumscribed 
respiratory organs, a liv^er, &c. In a word, if, by the want of a spinal raaru)w, 
of vertebra^, of a skeleton, a great sympatlietic, &c., they differ essentially from 
the vertebrates, they seem, by the richness of their vital organs, by their double 
circulation, their respiration, their liver, &;c., to come immediately after them, and 
hence to deserve to form the second of tlie four branches of the animal kingdom. 

The third, or that of the artieulafa, difiers not less from that of tlie mollusks 
than tliese dilfer from the vcrtebraia. The animals of this branch have a small 
brain like the mollusks, and this small brain is also situated upon the oesophagus ; 
but, what is wanting in the molluslcs, they have a sort of spinal marrow com- 
posed of two cords which run along the belly and unite themselves with it from 
space to space by knots or ganglions from which issue the nerves ; and yet this 
spinal marrow, which distinguishes theai from the mollusks, does not associate 
them with the vertebrates, for, inversely as regards that of the vertebrates, always 
placed above the digestive canal, it is always placed below. By an opposite 
inversion the heart, which is below this canal in the vertehrata, is above in the 
articulata; and what I have just said of their spinal marrow may be said of their 
skeleton, when they have one ; it is that this skeleton, while it divorces them 
from the mollusks, is not a feature which unites them with the vertebrates ; for, 
inversely to that of tlie vertebrates, which is internal and covered by the muscles, 
it is external and covers the muscles. Again, in a word, the features which sepa- 
rate the articulata from the mollusks are essential and profound, and such as decide 
tlie nature of beings, and the features which seem to connect them with the 
vertebrates do so only in appearance. 

The fourth branch presents characters not less circumscribed, not less deter- 
minate than the others. The first of these characters is that all the parts are 
disposed around a centre, like the radii of a circle ; the sotxjnd is the degrada- 
tion, the successive simplification of their structure. From the first character is 
derived the name of radiata, or animals of which all the parts are radiate or 
stellate ; and from the second that of zoophytes, or animal plants, animals which, 
in the simplicity of their organization, approach most nearly to plants. Thus 
the animal kingdom has four great types or forms, and a little consideration will 
disclose that each of these general forms of the body depends on the form itself 
of the dominant system of the animal economy ; that is, on the nervous system. 

The vertebrate animals have a trunk on each side of which all their parts are 
symmetrically arranged ; it is because their nervous system forms a central med- 
ullary cone, from eacli side of which proceed, in symmetrical order, the nerves of 
all those parts. The mollusks have a mass like body ; it is becaust; their nervous 
system lias but a confused arrangtMnent. To the body of the articulata some 
degree of symmetry is restored, but it had been first impressed on their nerAMUs 
system; the body is articulated externally, for the nervous system is articulated 
in the interior; in fine, even in the radiated amnicds, whenever the last vestiges 
of the nervous sj'stem are distinguishable it presents that star-like form which is 
affected Viy the whole body. 

The form of the nervous system, tlujn, determines the form of the animal ; 
and the reason of this is simph; : it is that, on the whole, the nervous system is 
virtually the animal, and all the other systems are present only for its service 
and sustentation. It is in nowise surprising, therefore, that, the form of this sys- 
tem remaining the same for each enibranchincnt of the animal world, the gen- 
eral form of each should remain the same; nor that, this form changing from ono 
embranchment to another, the form of each embranchment should change. 

* * * Having thus seen that the modilications of the nervous system givo 
the first rjroups, the first divisions or embranchments, it follows from the principle 
of subordination of characters, which is but another expression for the subordi- 
nation of the organs themselves, that the modifications of the organs of circula- 
10 S 



14G niSTORY OF THE WORKS OF CUVIER. 

tion and resDimtion, which come immediately after the nei-vons system in the 
order of their importance, will give the tirst subdivisions, or the classes. The 
vertehraie animals present either a simple and complete respiration, with a dou- 
ble circulation, which is the case with the mammifers; or a double respiration 
and double circulation, which is the case with birds; or a simple respiration, but 
complete one, since it is alwa3^s aerial, and this combined with a simple circula- 
tion, being the case of reptiles; or a double circulation, combined with an incom- 
plete, thai'', is to say an aquatic, respiration, which is the case ^\\\\\ fishes. Hence 
the vertebrate animals are distributed, according to their organs of circulation 
and respiration combined, into four classes — the mammifers, birds, reptiles, and 
fishes. 

So it is, also, with the mollusJcs; some have three hearts, others two, others 
one : of these hearts there are such as have but a single ventricle and a single 
anricle ; others a single ventricle and two auricles ; others, again, a single ven- 
tricle without an auricle,, &c. ; in fine, certain mollusks respire by a pulmonary 
cavity, others by branchia;, &:c.; and it will be readily conceived that the com- 
bination of all these variations of respiratory and circulatory organs will furnish 
classes of mollusks as it furnished the classes of vertebrata. The classes of 
mollusks, thus determined, are six in number — ceplialopods,gasteyopods, acejjJuilatcs, 
liieropods, hracliiopods, and cirrhojwds. 

Tiie combination of the organs under consideration will give us, likewise, and 
in even a still more striking manner, the subdivision of the third branch 
into four classes: the annelids, whose blood is red like that of the vertebrata; 
the Crustacea, whose blood is white like that of all other animals without verte- 
brae, and which, moreover, have a heart placed in the back, &c. ; the arachnids, 
which have for heart only a simple dorsal vessel which sends forth arterial branches 
and receives venous ones; and insects, v:\nch have no vessels at all, neither 
arteries nor veins, which have only the vestige of a heart, and whose respiration 
is not effected by circmnscribed organs, but b}'' trachece, or elastic vessels distrib 
uted through the whole body. In this branch of the articidata we observe, 
therefore, the transitimi from animals which have a circulation to those which 
have none, and the corresponding transition from those which respire by means 
of circumscribed branchite to those in which trachea distribute the air to every 
part. 

It is in the fourth branch, or that of zoophytes, or the radiata, that we 
observe the disappearance, the gradual and successive fusion of all the organs 
into the general mass. Thus, some of these animals have still closed vessels, 
distinct organs of respiration, &c. ; others, which have neither such vessels, for 
circulation nor such organs for respiration, have still visible intestines; it is only 
in the last of all that everything seems reduced to a homogeneous pulp ; and it 
is on the different degrees of complication in their structure that is founded their 
subdivision into five classes: cchinoderms, intestinal worms, acalephs, polyps, 
and infusoria. ******* 

Thus the nervous s^-stcm has furnished the branches; the organs of circu- 
lation and respira,tion combined, the c/«6'5e5; audit is cas}'- to conceive that organs 
more and more subordinate would successively supply the orders, the families, 
the tribes, the genera, the sub-genera, in a word, the whole scaffolding of the 
method. Thus as regards the mammals, for instance, (for it would detain us too 
long to follow the unfolding of the method in all the classes,) the combined 
organs of touch and oi inanducation divide this class into nine orders: man, who 
has three sorts of teeth, (molar, canine, and incisive,) and who has the opposable 
thumb on the two anterior extremities alone ; the quadrumana, which have also 
the three sorts of teeth, and, moreover, the opposable thumb on the four extrem- 
ities ; the carnivora, wliich again have the three sorts of teeth, but no opposable 
thumb and consequently no hands, which have only feet, bat feet of which the 
digits or toes are movable, like those of the two above orders; the rodents, whose 



HISTORY OF THE WORKS OF CUVIER 147 

toes differ little from those of tlie carnirora, but wlncli have only two sorts of 
teeth, the molar and incisive; the cdcntafn, in which order the toes have become 
less movable, and are almost confounded with large claws, and which have never 
any teeth but the molar and canine, sometinies only molar, and sometimes none 
at all ; the inarsupiaJs, or animals ivifh a poucli, a small series collateral to the 
three preceding- orders, some of them corresponding to the carnivora, others to the 
rodentia, and others to the edentata ; the rnminants, which form a strikingly dis- 
tinct order in view of their cloven feet, their upper jaws without true incisors^ 
their four stomachs ; the pachndcrmata^ which comprise all the other quadrupeds 
with hoofs; and the cefacca, which are wholly destitute of posterior extremities. 

The principal modifications of the combined organs of touch and nianducation 
having given the orders, secondary modifications of these same organs Avill sap- 
ply the famiUcs ; and modifications more and more subordinated will give all the 
other* groups, the tribes, the genera, the sub-genera, until we finally reach the 
Sjiecies for which the whole scaffolding is constructed. 

Thus, to confine ourselves again to a single order of the mammifcrs, that of the 
carnivora, for example, it has just been seen that one of tUe characters of that 
order is to have movable toes. Now, if we suppose these toes to have become 
very long, and to be united b}^ membranes, so as to form an organ of flight, as 
in the bats, we shall have i\\Q fainiJy of clieiroptera ; if w^e suppose that the 
animal, the toes remaining free, supports itself in walking on the entire sole of 
the foot, or, on the contrary-, that it walks only on the ends of its toes, we shall 
have in the first case the tribe of the pJanfigradcs, and in the second that of the 
digitigradcs. And siniilarly as regards the organs of manducation, it has been 
seen that this order has three sorts of teeth, and it is this which constitutes its 
character as an order ; but let us suppose that the molar teeth (which by their 
form always decide the diet of the animal) are feeble and furnished with conic 
points, and we shall have i\\G family of insectivora ; or that these same teeth 
have become stronger, and, instead of simple conic points, are armed with parta 
more or less incisive, and we shall in that case have tlie family of carnivora ; 
and in this latter family, according as the molar teeth are entirely cutting or 
incisive, or more or less mingled with blunt tubercles, we shall have either the 
genus bear, of which almost all the teeth are tuhercidar ; or that of dogs, which 
have only two tubercular ; or that of cats, &c., which have none tubercular, and 
which consequently are exclusively carnivorous, while the dog is capable of re- 
ceiving a certain amount of vegetable nourishment, and the bear ma}" be entirely 
nourished on vegetable food. And herein lies one of the necessary relations 
between the organs which enables us to calculate with considerable certainty the 
proportions of the alimentary canal, from the extent of the tubercular surface of 
the teeth of animals, compared with the cutting or incisive surface. 

What has Ijeen here said might be easily exemplified as regards all other 
families, tribes^ and genera; and it will hence be seen that the simple placing of 
an animal iti one of these groups, teaches us as exactly as the most detailed 
description, all that relates to the organization of that animal, or to the degree 
of organization which corresponds to the group in which it is placed. Let me be 
told, for instance, of some creature that its place is in the genus cat, and I shall 
at once conclude not only that its molar teeth are all sharp or incisive, as being 
a cat, but further, that it has three sorts of teeth, movable iocs, dr., as being car- 
nivorous; that it has a double circulation and a complete respiration, as being 
a mammal; that it lias, also, a s])inal marrow, a canal composed of vertebras, 
five senses, &c., as being one of tlie vcrtcbrata. Thus I shall kn(jw the whole of 
its organization from its place alone, and what will remain for "me to say of it 
will, of course, be reduced to a few Avords, for the indication of its proper or 
specific characters. 

Now, as the number of known beings is immense, and, immense as it is, can- 
not fail to be much more augmented, we perceive the advantage of heing able 



148 HISTORY OF THE WORKS OF CUVIER. 

tlins to substitute a few words for a complete description ; of Laving to say nothing 
of each species but what is proper to it ; of being able to supply, by its place 
alone, all that it has in cohiraon with all the rest of the kingdom ; but we also 
perceive that, for method to aftbrd this advantage, it is necessary both that all 
its groiq)S should be rigorously subordinated among one another, and that each 
of them should comprise only beings of the same structure. 

Groups well constituted, alone admit of general propositions. "Without gen- 
eral propositions there can be no method; without method no brevity; the high- 
est meiit of all science in Avhich the number of facts is immense, as it is in every 
branch of the history of the beings of nature. A genus, a family, an order, ill- 
constituted, stands in the way of every general proposition relating to that genus, 
family, or order. Thus, by placing the siren and the eel in the same genus, 
Gmelin rendered it impossible to say anything general upon that genus ; by 
placing the cuitle-fisli and the frcsli-wcder pohjp in the same order, he made it 
impossible to say anything general upon that order ; and by placing the mol- 
lusks, the ivorms, arid the zoophytes in the same class, Linnseus had rendered every 
general proposition relative to that class impossible, &c. 

B}' means of well-constituted groups, then, we are enabled to say, at one time, 
for all the species they contain, what it would have been necessary, otherwise, to 
]-epeat as many times as there had been species remaining dispersed and detached. 
But, among all these groiq)S, and under the point of view with which I am here 
concerned, the genera have an importance which is proper to themselves. It is, 
that being t\\e first approximation of spjecks, all the rest of the scaffolding is, so to 
say, founded upon them, and an ill-constructed genus would suffice to break the 
imiiy of a family, of an order, of an entire class. Besides, being nearer to the 
sjjecies, the more they shall combine only such species as are conformable with 
one another, the less there will remain to say for each of them ; and it is herein 
that may be seen all the inconvenience of those large genera, into which, even 
of late, so many incongruous species have been thrust, and all the advantage of 
intersecting those genera by suh genera — a happj' expedient which forestalls con- 
fusion, by approximating in a closer manner the species which present resem- 
blances more particular or more intimate. ****** 

But all this work of genera, suh-genera, &c., of which we have been ajDcak- 
ing, supposes a work not less considerable, the positive establishment, namely, 
of species — a point in which the animal kingdom presented not less confusion 
than in all the others. It was not sufficient to have remodelled or created almost 
all the divisions of that kingdom ; it was incumbent on M. Cuvier to revise all 
the species, to revise them one by one, and even their synonyms; for sometimes 
several were confounded under the same name, sometimes a single one passed, 
under different names, for several ; and this criticism of so many names, imposed 
right or wrong, on such a number of species, was assuredly neither the part of 
the work which offered least difficulty to the author, nor that which has saved 
his successors least embarrassment. It suffices, in effect, to cast the eyes on the 
works upon natural history which have appeared since the first edition of the 
Itegne animal, to see the happy fruits which have resulted from these labors 
upon synonyms of which I now speak, and that art of establishing divisions in 
the comprehensive genera of which I had been previously speaking. 

I liave said, with reference to hranches, and again with reference to classes, 
that each of these groups is definitely circumscribed ; as much may be said of all 
other groups in every degree. Linnffius had pronounced that " nature makes no 
leaps;" and Bonnet, that " the chain of beings is but one continuous line." The 
very reverse of these propositions would be much more exact. The truth is, that 
the different groups are separated from one another by intervals more or less 
m.arkcd and profound ; and there is, in the very organization of the animals, an 
evident reason for all these intervals. 

The organization of an aniural is only, in effect, a certain combination of organs; 



HISTORY OF THE WORKS OF CUVIER. 149 

but till combinations of organs arc not possible. For example, a stomach of one 
of the ca;v?»"ora necessarily supposes incisive tcetli for rending its prey, movable 
toes for seizing it, &c. ; for alike reason, animals with hoofs are, of necessity, all 
herbivorous, because their inmiovable toes would not allow of their seizing a liv- 
ing prey — their molar teeth, with a flat crown, could not tear it, &c. There is a 
necessary harmony, therefore, which regulates the combination of organs ; there 
are such as exclude one another, such as necessitate one another, so that all com- 
binations are not possible ; and it necessarily follows, if onl\' from the i'act that 
all combinations of organs are not possible, that there must be certain gaps, cer- 
tain chasms between the possible combinations and the impossible, or between 
different groups of creatures ; and that this sort of hiatus is determined by the 
laws or conditions under which these creatures exist. 

The first edition of the Ilegne anintal (which itself succeeded the Tableau 
eUmentaire dc Vhistoirc naturclle (ks animaux, wherein the first germs of Cuviei-'s 
ideas on classification had been developed) occupied but four volumes, the second 
five J of which the last two, relating to the crustaceans, i\\Q. arachnids, and the 
insects, were the work of M. Latreille, who, as M. Cuvier himself pronounced, 
had, "of all the men of Europe, studied those animals the most profoundly." 
It may well be supposed that a work of the natm-e of that of which we speak, a 
work which, on its appearance, became at once the guide of all zoologists, would 
be translated into all languages. It Avas so, in effect, into English, by IM. Grif- 
fith J into Italian, by the Abbe Ranzani ; and into German, by M. Schinz. 

III. NATURAL HISTOliY OF FISHES.* 

This work may be considered under two distinct relations : under that of tlie 
great nvmiber of new species with which it has enriched zoology, and under that 
of the application which the author has therein made of the empiriccd laws of 
method to a definite class of the animal kingdom. I shall say but a few words 
on the work considered under the former point of view, which would adapt itself 
but little to the philosophical studies which I have in hand. 

Aristotle knew and named 117 kinds of fish ; Pliny knew l)ut 95 or 96 ; Oppian 
names 125 ; Athenfeus, 130 ; ^lian, 110 ; Ausonius names for the first time the 
salmon-ti'out, the common trout, the barbel and some other fresh-water fishes. 
In all, the ancients had distinguished and named 150 species of fish ; only about 
40, therefore, had escaped the research of Aristotle; and, as regards the structure 
of these animals, nothing was added to what he had said. In the middle of the 
16th century llondelet, Belon, and Salviani make their appearance ; the three 
original authors who founded ichthijology. Belon describes and names about 130 
fishes; Salviani, 99 ; Rondelet, 244, of which 197 belong to the sea and 47 to 
fresh water. Neglecting some secondary authors, if we come to Ilay and Wil- 
loughby, we find the number of known fishes already more than 400 ; the same 
is nearly the case with Artedi and Linna3us ; there are about 1,400 in Bloch and 
Lacepede ; there are nearly 5,000 in the work of M. Cuvier. * * * * 
But to come at once to the phil()so])hical part of the work under consideration, 
we proceed to the distribution of species, or rather to the views which have guided 
the author in that distril)ution. Aristotle had recognized that the true characters 
of fishes consist in the branchia; (gills) and in the Jiiis. The class of fishes is 
comi)osed, therefore, of vertebrate animals with these appendages ; the features 
connnon to all being the vertebrcc, or, more exactly, an internal sheleton, (for 
the vertebra? do not alone compose that skeleton,) the branchice and the./w.9. 
The differential features are an osseous or a eartilat/inous skeleton ; gills, now 
free, now fixed; fins, sojl or sxnnous; ventral fins placed by turns before, behind, 

* The first voIiiiih^ fippciircd in 1828 ; 8 of the 20 volumes, wliich the work was inteuded to 
comprise, were ]iul)lislicd before Cuvier's deatli, aud several others have since made iheir 
appearance through the caro of M. Valenciennes, the coadjutor of Cuvier for the entire work. 



150 HISTORY OF THE WORKS OF CUVIER. 

or imder the pectoral ; teeth phiced by turns on the intermaxillaries, the maxiUarks, 
the vomer, iha palatine, the tongue, the arclies of the hranchi(C, &c.; the 
form ol" these teeth, jj?afe-Z?7je, viUiforv!,pomfed, &c. ; the opercnla or covers of the 
branchiae, whether smooth, scaly, serrated, sharp-jmntcd, and armed icith spines, 
or ohtttse and icithout spines, &c. ; and it is on the varied combination of 
these differential features or characters that all the different methods which have 
been successively imagined for the classification of fishes depend. 

It will be readily understcxl that he who should employ but one or two of 
these characters woidd have only an artificial or incomplete method, like Linnteus ; 
that he who should indistinctly employ them all would have only a confused 
method, like so many ichthyologists, and that the natural method — that is to say, 
the exact and complete one — consists at once in employing them all, and in 
employing none but according to the relative order of its impiortance. There are 
two points, in effect, which control the whole idea of a natural method : one to 
emplov only true characters ; the other to accord to each of these characters only 
tlie precise degree of its importance. But, to employ only true characters — that is 
to say, not to attribute to such or such a species such or such a character which 
it wants, and, reciprocally, not to suppose it destitute of such or such another 
which it possesses — we perceive that it is necessary to know all the species. On 
the other hand, to attribute to each character only the degree of its importance, 
we perceive that this complete knowledge of species, in itself so vast and so diffi- 
cult, still would not suffice, and that it is, moreover, necessary to have compared 
these characters under all their relations ; that it is necessary to have varied, multi- 
plied, exhausted all their combinations. 

Now, on these two points which constitute, in fact, the whole of ichthyology — 
that is to say, both for the determination of species and the valuation (f the 
characters according to which those species are composed or discriminated up to 
the time of M. Cuvier — everything was yet to be done. The species of fishes 
were not known; the proof of it is in every page of the book we are considering. 
No just idea existed of the characters which decide their union or distril)ution, 
the proof of which is found in those perpetual transpositions undergone by the 
same species in the difierent classifications of authors. * * * * 

IV. — LECTUEES ON COMrAKATIVE A^^ATOilY.* — LAWS OF ANIilAL OKGAX- 

IZATION. 

Two great laws control and comprise all the others ; the first is that of organic 
correlations ; the second tliat of the subordination of organs. 

A necessary correlation binds all the functions one to another. Respiration, 
when executed in a circumscribed respiratory organ, cannot dispense with circu- 
lation, for it is necessary that the blood should arrive at the respiratory organ, 
the organ which receives the air, and it is the circulation which carries it thither; 
circulation cannot dispense with irritability, for it is irritability which deter- 
mines the contraction of the heart, and consetpiently the movements of the blood ; 
muscnlar irritability, in turn, cannot dispense with the nervous action. And if 
one of these things is changed, it is necessary that all the others should change. 
If circulation is wanting,^ the respiration can no longer be circumscribed ; it is 
necessar}^ that it should become general, as in insects; the blood no longer seek- 
ing the air, it is necessary that the air should seek the blood. 

There are organic conditions, therefore, which call for one another ; there are 
such as exclude one another. A circumscribed respiration necessarily demands 
a pulmonary circulation ; a general respiration renders a pulmonary circulation 
useless, and excludes it. Everytliing is thus regulated by necessary relations. 

* Two volumes of this work appeared in 1800, three more iu 1805. lo the former, M. 
Cuvier had for his coadjutor M. Dumeril ; in the latter series he was assisted hy M. Duvernoy, 
who is publishing at the present time a second edition of the entire work. 



HISTORY OF THE WORKS OF CUVIER. 151 

The mode of respinition is in constant dependence on tlie circulation, wliicli car- 
lies tlie blood to the air, or to the organ which receives the air ; the force of the 
movements is in constant dependence on the quantity of the respiration, for it is 
resiiiration which restores to the muscular fibre its exhausted irritability. 

The quantity of respiration everywhere determines the vigor, the rapidity, and 
the kind of movement. The movement which requires most muscular energy is 
that of flying, and the bird has a double respiration. The mammal has move- 
ments more limited, and it has a simple res])iration. The reptile has movements 
more feeble still, and it has but an incomplete ]'espiration. Tlie bird respires 
not alone by its lungs, but by its whole body. The air, after having traversed 
the lungs, which are transpierced like a sieve, penetrates into the cellules of the 
abdomen, into the cavities of the bones, &c. It is, therefore, not alone the blood 
of tht lungs, but the blood of the whole body, which respires. The mammal has 
but a simple respiration, for there is but the blood of its lungs which respires; 
but this simple resjiiration is complete, for all the blood of the body passes 
through the lungs before returning to the members.- Finally, the reptiles have 
but an incomplete respiration ; their pulmonary circulation is only a fraction of 
the general circulation ; there is but a part of their blood which respires, or 
which, retiu'ning from the members to the heart, })asses from the heart to the 
lungs before returning to the members. Hence, the reptiles have only cold blood, 
only slow movements, interrupted by long repose ; they are all subject to hiber- 
nating torpor, &c. On the other hand, iish have a complete pulmonary circu- 
lation ; but they have only an aquatic respiration, that is to say, an imperfect 
one, since they have, for respiring, only the small quantity of air contained in the 
water ; quite the contrary of what has been just said of reptiles, which have an 
aerial or perfect respiration, and an incomplete pulmonary circulation. 

IS'ow, these two things are mutually conipi.'usatory : an aerial or perfect respi- 
ration is compensated by an incomplete })ulmonary circiilation, and a complete 
pulmonary circulation by an aquatic or imperfect res})iration. Fish, therefore, 
have only cohl blood, like the reptiles — only movements which require little 
nuiscular energy, &;c. Thus, there are in vertobrato animals four definite degrees 
of respiration : the complex respiration of birds, the simple but complete respi- 
ration of mammals, and the incomplete respiration, incomplete by two diilerent 
means, of reptiles and fishes. And there are four kinds of movements which 
correspond to these four degrees of respiration : the flight of the bird, which cor- 
responds to the duplicate respiration ; the step, the leap, the run of mammals, 
which correspond to the complete, but single resi)iration ; the crawling of the 
reptile, a movement by which the animal does no more than drag itself along 
the earth ; and the swimming of the fish, a nKJveinent for which the animal ha? 
need of being sustained in a liquid, the specific gravity of which is nearly equal 
to its own. And as of movement, so too of digestion. The greater the capacity 
of res})iration, the more rapid the digestion. The most rapid digestion is that 
of the bird, the slowest that of the rejjtile ; the bird surprises us by the frequency 
of its repasts, the rej)lile l)y the duration of its abstinences. 

Everything in the l)ird is formed for flight. It required a wing of wide sur- 
face to strike tlie air; for this wing large nmscles were needed to move it ; these 
muscles required very large bones for their insertion. And tlu; bird has a sternim? 
developed into a salient blade, into a crest, it has a pectoral muscle iclatively 
enormous, &c. So much for the exterior; internally, it has a duplicate respira- 
tion, an animal heat and muscular energy which correspond to that icspiration ; 
and, for this duplicate respiration, it has limgs perhn-ated like a sieve, air-cells, 
which are the appendix of its lungs, &c. Nor did all this sulHce ; my own exper- 
iments have shown that the brain is comjxjsed of three parts essentially 
distinct:* the cerebrum, exclusive seat of intelligence; \\\o cerebellum, seat of the 

* See Diy llcchtrchts txpirimntlalcs sur ks jjropTi6l6s ct Its fonclions du sysi^iiie ncrvtux, 
&c. Second edition, Paris, ld42. -^ 



102 HISTORY OF THE WOEKS OF CUVIER. 

principle wLicli governs or co-ordinates tlie movements of locomotion ; tlie 
•medulla ohhngafa, seat of the principle which controls the movements of respira- 
tion. Now, in the bird, the part of the brain which, relatively to the brain of 
other vertebrate animals, predominates, is precisely that Avhich governs or co-ordi- 
nates the movements of locomotion ; it is the ccrebcUmn. All the parts, all the 
functions, all the modifications of the parts and of the functions, are therefore 
formed each for the others, and all for a given purpose. 

We have seen this as regards respiration, as regards the act of flying, &c. It 
is easily shown as regards digestion. The system of an animal is, in effect, by 
no means an arbitrary thing. It is not by hazard that incisive teeth coincide 
with a single stomach ; flat and dull teeth with a multiple stomach ; flat teetli, 
a multiple stomach, with a herbivorous diet, &c. A single one of those things, 
necessarily supposes all the others, or excludes them all. An animal with long 
intestines, a multiple stomach, flat teeth, is necessarily herbivorous. A carniv- 
orous animal has, necessarily, incisive teeth, a single stomach, short intestines ; 
it has, moreover, and just as necessarily, divided and movable digits, to seize its 
prey ; and, even in the T)rain, it has a peculiar instinct which impels it to nour- 
ish itself on flesh. Never will such an instinct nor an incisive tooth co-exist in 
the same animal, with a foot enveloped in horn, for these things are incompatible 
and contradict one another; the animal in which they presented themselves 
together could not subsist. The laws of organic correlations, properly viewed, 
are the very conditions of the existence of beings. 

After the law of organic correlations, comes, as we have said, the law of the 
suhordination of organs. A recognized subordination everywhere subjects cer- 
tain organs to others : the ore-ans of locomotion to those of dio'estion : the orcfans 
of circulation to those of respiration ; all functions and all organs to the nervous 
system. Circulation, for instance, does or does not exist, according as respira- 
tion is conducted in such or such a manner. All animals with a circumscribed 
respiration (the vertebrata, the mollusks, the Crustacea, &c.,) have, necessarily, 
a circulation ; for it is necessarj^ that the blood should arrive in the organ which 
receives the air, and it is the circulation which carries it thither. The insects, 
in place of a circumscribed respiration, have a general respiration, executed by 
means of trachea?, which carry the air everywhere ; in their case, there was no 
need of eirculation, and there is none. 

The same subordination connects the organs of locomotion or oiprehension with 
the digestion. And such is the force of this subordination that one of these organs 
seems incapable of making any progress without manifesting a similar progress 
in the other. Thus, for example, the ruminant animals have, in general, neither 
canine nor incisive teeth in the upper jaw, and there are but five bones to their 
tarsus ; the camel has canines, and even two or four incisives in the upper jaw, 
and already we observe an additional bone in the tarsus, because the scaphoid is 
here not consolidated with the cuboid ; further, the common ruminants have, for 
the whole fbida, only a small bone articulated at the base of the tibia, and the 
chevrotain or vioschus, which has canines well developed, has a distinct and 
complete fibula. Sec. 

v. — COMPARATIVE OSTEOLOGY. 

This branch of science, sprung from the labors of Daubenton,of Camper, of 
Pallas, has become, in the hands of M. Cuvier, a new instrument ; it was by 
comparative osteology that he reconstructed the lost species of ancient worlds ; 
and it is well worthy of remark thak in this long and laborious series of researches 
and eftbrts none of these learned men ever diverged from the domain of positive 
facts. Such, effectively, is the empire of these facts over the human mind that, 
except in their default, it scarcely ever throws itself into the domain of con- 
jecture and hypothesis. In almost every line it is only when the facts are not 



HISTORY OF THE WORKS OF CUVIER. 153 

known, or begin to be exliausted, that recourse is bad to systems; and what is 
unfortunate for the history of science is not the mania of s^'stems, which prevails 
before the acquisition of facts, but that which seeks to reproduce itself afterwards. 

The great work of M. Cuvier on fossil bones shows that there is not a single 
bone, a single part of a bone, of which the study is not valuable, necessary, often 
indispensable, lor the distinction of fossil species from existing species. This 
work seems everywhere a living proof of the saying of a celebrated writer, that 
never, except in the ])rofound study of details, have the secrets of nature been 
surprised ; and it cannot be observed without pain that while there remain to 
be discovered any of those facts of which the least circumstances possess such 
an importance, so many authors turn away from this curious and solid research 
for so many other researches as vain as they are idle ; these, for example, choosing 
to discover, in any event, all the parts in each ; the entire body in the head, the 
members in the jaws, the thorax in the nose, &c., those, making by turns the 
pieces of an apparatus pass into another, in order thus to arrive at a unity of 
number which this overturning of everything does not itself yield them. The 
object of M. Cuvier, it may easily be conceived, was not to follow the authors in 
question into these researches, more hardy than philosophic ; he nowhere pretends 
to find in an apparatus either representations of parts foreign to that apparatus, 
or constant numbers of pieces or bones, but he seeks how far the correspondence 
of these pieces goes and where it stops. 

At no epoch has it been possible to compare the different beings which compose 
the animal kingdom without remarking, at the same time, their resemblances and 
their differences, and the difficulty has never been other than to fix the precise 
limit between the analogies which constitute, on the one hand, the characters 
more or less general of species, and the differences which, on the other, constitute 
their characters more or less distinctive and peculiar. Hence arise two branches 
of the same study, which> both date from the first ages of science ; one the search 
for analogies, the other the search for differences. Now, it is readily conceivable 
that, according to the epoch, such or such of these researches should appear mort 
or less important in relation to the other ; but, at bottom, it is easy to see that 
one always supposes the other, and that it is neither the evident analogies nor 
evident dissimilitudes which could ever have been the subject of serious discus- 
sion, but, in truth, the real differences hidden under apparent analogies, or 
inversely, the analogies hidden under'differences. In a word, as it is impossible 
to mark the point where dissimilarity commences without marking that where 
analogy ceases, it would be impossible to carry the study of diilerences as far 
as M. Cuvier has done without recognizing the })oint where the analogies com- 
mence ; and perhaps it was necessary, in eflect, to exhaust first the study of diiler- 
ences in order to be sure of allowing no analogies afterwards to stand but suet 
as are real and incontestable. 

However this may be, the profound sentiment that an immense analogy, oc 
rather that analogies of all kinds bind together more or less all the beings of tlw 
animal kingdom, is a sentiment which, as 1 have just said, dates from the first 
ages of science. The whole work of Aristotle bears on the conformity of the 
different species with one another, and of all with man, taken as a conunon term 
of com])arison. Buffon wonders at the constant unifornfity of design, aiul asks 
if this latent resemblance be not more surprising than the apparent ditlcrences 
{Histoire de Vamc). Haubenton points out the conformity of structure in the 
greater part of the skeleton, and particularly in the foot — that is to say, the part 
of the skeleton which varies the most {Descriptlondii chcvai). Camper, in two 
ingenious discourses,* dilates on the astonishing analogy between the structure 

* Discnurs sur Vanalngie qu'il y a entrc la structure du corps humriin rt cclle des quadru- 
pbdcs, Sec. — Belon, bcfuro Camper, by placing vciticiilly the skolettui of a MrI, had reiulcrcd 
conspicuous a multitude of relfitions tilltheu uunoticed, with the human skeleton. Hisiuire 
de la nature es oiseaux, &{c. 



154, HISTORY OF THE WOEKS OF CUVIER. 

of tlie human T)0(ly and that of quadvupcds, birds, and fislies, and shows how, by 
gradual changes from a horizontal to a vertical attitude, it is possible "to trans- 
form a cow into a bird, a quadruped into a man, &c." Finally this striking idea 
is seen pervading the writings of Vicq-d'Azyr, who says that " nature seems always 
to work after a primitive and general pattern, from which she deviates only with 
reluctance ; that we observe every where those two characters which seem impressed 
on all beings, that of constancy in the type and variety in the modifications."* 

Nevertheless, this opinion of a constant unifonniti/ of design, oi an astonishing 
analogy, of a primitive and general pattern, rested as 3'et only on a perception 
vague and more or less confused. And it is in our own times alone that this 
complicated question of the analogy of structure has been disentangled and 
divided ; that it has adopted as a field of discussion determinate and precise 
facts ; that, become a positive question, it is capable of being discussed in a 
rio-orous and detailed manner. 

This question has been termed the question of unity of organization; it might 
quite as well have been termed the question oi variety of organization ; all depends 
in effect on the point of view under which it is considered ; for since there are 
different species of animals, unity here supposes necessarily a certain variety ; 
and since, on the other hand, these different species all resemble one another, 
at least on that common ground which consigns them to the same kingdom, it is 
evident that this variety necessarily supposes also a certain unity or conformity. 
Tlie true title of the question, or rather its true object, was therefore the deter- 
mination of the limits where stop, by turns, the resemblances and differences in 
the orii'anization of animals; an organization at once so similar and so varied. 
Once divided, as I have just said, the question has taken quite another aspect. 
The general resemblance of animals has been no longer concluded from son.e 
particular resemblances, nor limited to certain hranchcs, to certain classes. Ai? 
regards the osseous system, for example, it had been presently perceived that, 
onlv pertaining to vertebrate animals, this system can only yield results limited 
to that embranchment, to that type. The resemblances of the osseous system 
which testify so strongly to a common ground-jilan, to a unity of structure, testify 
to them, therefore, only in reference to the sole type which possesses an osseous 
system," the type of vertebrates. 

Considered collectively, the osseous sj'stem forms the skeleton, which is 
divided into several parts : the apparatus of the vertebnc, that of the cranium, 
those of the face, of the ear, of the hyoide, of the opercnla, of the ribs, of the 
sternum, of the shoulder, of the pelvis, of the limbs. Now, there is not a mem- 
ber of this diversified apparatus which does not, in the different classes, vary in 
the form, the numbef, the complication of the pieces which constitute it. For 
the most part, and saving the variations just spoken of, they are reproduced in 
all. There are, however, some which are wantiug in such and such a class ; 
there are some which are the exclusive attribute of a single one. The question 
is to see what is the particular character of each a])paratus in each class ; that is 
to say, of what pieces it is there composed, what there is the form and the com- 
bination of those pieces. Now, such an examination shows that, among all these 
parts of which the skeleton is composed, some are essential, and hence more con- 
stant ; others accessory, and hence more variable ; that the vertebrae, the cra- 
niiun, which lodge the spinal marrow, the encephalon, may readily var\' from one 
class to another in the number and form of their bones, but are found in all ; 
that, on the contrary, the ossicles of the ea-r, the opercnla, the limbs, &c., all 
accessory and subordinate parts, may be wanting, and are so in effect, when the 
conditions of audition, of respiration, of locomotion, are no longer the same. 
These are analogies, then, graduated like the importance of the parts which })re- 
sent theur ; each part has its proper limits, both of variety and analogy ; each 
should be studied apart ; and it might hence be said that there is a particular 

* See especially his memoir " Sur Ic varallcle des extremites. Sfc." 



HISTORY OF THE WORKS OF CUVIER. 155 

corn pa rat ive osteoloj^v of cacli osseous apparatus, as tliore is a general compara- 
tive osteology of the wliolo s^'stem. 

The cranium^ tliat most complicated apparatus of tlie slvcleton, ]n'eseiits, in 
all mammifers, a composition ver\' nearly tlie same; we may there follow each 
bone, from man to the (piadrurnana, from the quadrumaiiato tlie carnivora, to the 
rodentia, to the edentata, the pacliydermata, the ruminants, the cetacea; every- 
where are recognized frontals, parietals, occipitals, tem])orals, the splienoid, the 
ethmoid; and they are everywhere recognized as well by their position as their 
use. It is as much if the interparietals appear to bo w^anting in certain species. 
It is the same with the face. The bones of the nose, of the cheek, of the jaws, 
of the palate, &c., are never wanting. The lachrymals alone fail in the phocse, 
the doljihins, &:c. All other diflerences of nmnber are but apparent, and result 
only from the greater or less promptness with which, according to the species, 
tlie bones or parts of bones, constantly separated in the first stage of life, unite 
and are confoimded in adult age. It is thus that, according to the species, the 
occipital, the parietal, the sphenoid, the temporal, &c., ajipear sometimes single, 
sometimes double, tripl(>, or quadruple ; but when we I'ecur to the fffitus the occi- 
pital is always divided into four parts, the parietal into two, or rather into four, 
counting the inter-parietals, which, in the end, constantly become united there- 
with, the temporal into four, the body of the sphenoid into two, &c. Thus, in 
the mammals, there is a normal numl)er for the bones of the cranium ; and when 
this nundier appears masked by the obliteration of the sutures in the adult state, 
the primitive division is alwa3-s reproduced and restored in the fa3tal state; and 
what I say of the bones of the cranium may be said also of the bones of the 
face, and of their more numerous subdivisions in the earlier stages. 

It would naturally be curious to see whether this singular analogy was main- 
tained in the other classes, in the birds, the reptiles, the fish ; whether the same 
nund)cr of bones is there everywhere reproduced ; whether, masked in the adult 
state, it would appear in the foetal ; whether, in fine, reptiles and fish, in which 
the bones of the cranium are always much more numerous, could be regarded as 
corresprtuding in this respect to the early age of birds and mammals. This 
interesting question was successively treated b}' M. Cuvier in reference to rep- 
tiles {lieserchcs sur ks osscmcns fossiles, tome 5,) and to fish [lUstoire ndtiindle 
ck'S poissoiis ;) it will suffice to indicate here the manner in which he has resolved 
it relative to rejjtiles. , 

The reptile whose head presents the most striking traits of conformity with 
tliat of the manuiiifers is the crocodile; from the crocodile i\I. Cuvier passes in 
succession to the tortoises, the lizards, the serpents, and finishes with the batra- 
chians, which conduct from reptiles to fish, as the crocodile from reptiles to mam- 
mals. The head of the crocodile is composed of a much greater number of 
bones than that of the adult mammifer, but by recurring to the foetus of this 
last class we recognize in the head of the crocodile and that of the mammifer 
very nearly the same number of bones. Thus ^I. Cuvier, after having found in 
the crocodile, and in the same place as in the mammals, the intermaxillary 
l)ones, the maxillary, the nasal, the lachrymal, the jngal, the palatine, the ethmoid,* 
the body of the sphenoid, the parietal, finds also, and again in the same place, 
the occipital, but divided into four parts, as it is in the foetus of mannnals, the 
great wings of the sphenoid, vestiges of its lesser wings, its internal and external 
pterygoid wings, but all these parts separate fi'om the body of the bone, as they 
all are, except the last,t in the mammal at its earliest age; finally a temporal 

* With its cribriform lamina, its lateral winps, its superior cornets, its vertical lamina, but 
all those pieces or dependences of the ethmoid, in great part, in a eartila<riuous slate. 

1 For this reason M. Cuvier gives the special name tit trnnnKcrsr. hour, to the external ptery- 
goid ap(j})hysis, which, in the mammals, is not at any U'^c etrcctually separated IVom iho 
groat teuiporul wing. It is, therefore, not properly a new bone, but a disinembernient of 
the sphenoid, as the frontal bones, anterior and posterior, are dismembermenta of the frontal. 



15 G HISTOKY OF THE WOEKS OF CUVIER. 

"hone^ but composed of four bones, as it is in the foetal mammals, tbe squamosal, 
the mastoid, the cavity of the tympanum, and the petrous bone. There remained 
only the bones Avhicli correspond to the frontal to reduce to analogy, but these 
bones are six in number in the crocodile, and as the frontal of mammifers is never 
divided but into two, M. Ouvier was obliged to admit here a peculiar dismem- 
berment of this bone, a dismemberment wliich, in the crocodile, or, to speak more 
generally, in the greater part of oviparous vertebrates, subdivides each of the 
two frontals of mammals into thi'ee others, the principal, the anterior, and the 
posterior frontals. 

This determination of the bones of the head of the crocodile, compared with 
those of the head of mammals, being once established, it is easy to refer to it, as 
a sort of type, the bones of the head of all other reptiles, jiarticularly tortoises, 
lizards, and serpents. Thus, with due regard to the differences of form and pro- 
portion, the greater part of the bones of the crocodile reappear in the head of the 
tortoise ; but this head wants the nasal bones, which are here represented only 
by cartilaginous laminge, the transverse or external pterygoid and the lachrymal 
bones. Moreover, the parietal, which is single in the crocodile, is double in the 
tortoise ; but in the lizards this parietal again becomes single, the lachrymal and 
transverse bones reappear, a new bone is disclosed which M. Cuvier calls columella, 
&c.; all but slight differences, v/hich do not hinder us from recognizing throughout 
the predominance of one same plan in the heads of the crocodile, the tortoise, 
and the lizard. 

A new and more difficult study commences with the hafrachians. First, the 
general composition of the head is singularly simplified. We find here only the 
two lateral occipitals, with neither upper occipital nor basilar; a single sphenoid 
with neither temporal nor orbital wings ; a single bone replaces at once the 
principal frontal and the ethmoid ; there are no posterior frontals, but there are 
two anterior frontals, two parietals, and two petrous bones. Nor is the face less 
simplified, for the transverse forms only one with the pterygoid, the temporal but 
one with the t3nnpanic, and there is no mastoid. The cranium of the frog, there- 
fore, has but 10 bones, one ethmoid, two frontals, two parietals, two occipitals, 
one sphenoid, two petrous bones: its face has but 16, two intermaxillars, two 
niaxillars, two nasals, two palatines, two vomers, two pterygoids, two tympanies, 
and two jugals or zygomatics. In all, its head has but 26 bones, while that of the 
crocodile has nearly 40. And this difference of number presents itself in each par- 
ticular apparatus of the face ; thus the lower jaw of the crocodile has six bones 
on each side, and each side of the jaw of the frog has but three, &c. 

I have said that the apparatus of the vertehrce is, with that of the cranium, the 
most constant ; each vertebra may itself be considered as a small distinct appa- 
ratus, composed of a certain number of bones, which is not the same for all the 
vertebrae in each species, nor for each vertebra in all the species; the atlas of 
the crocodile has six bones, its axis has five ; the atlas of the tortoise has only 
four, that of the monitor three, &c. But it is chiefly by their total nuurber that 
the vertebrae vary from one class to the other, and even in the different orders, 
the different genera of each class. Not to depart here from the reptiles, the 
crocodile, for example, has 26 vertebrae — 7 cervical, 12 dorsal, 5 lumbar, and 2 
sacral ; 200 are counted in the adder, the boa, &c. ; the frog has but nine. As 
regards other apparatus of the animal system, being only accessory, the greater 
part may be wanting, and is wanting, in effect, in such or such a class, such or 
such an order, such or such a genus, &c. The hinder extremities fail in the 
cetacea, both the anterior and posterior extremities in the serpent, the ribs are 
absent in the frog, the auricular apparatus in fishes, &c. 

Nothing is better calculated to give a just idea of the manner in which a certain 
general conformity is combined in certain cases with all the variations of detail 
than what is seen in the shoulder and the sternum. The shoulder, which is com- 
posed, in the mammifer, of but one bone, the scapula, or of two, the scapula and 



niSTOKY OF THE WORKS OF CUVIER. 157 

tlie clavicle, lias always three in the bird: the scapula or omoplatc, the clavicle, 
and the coracoid bone; it has only two in the crocodile, the scapula, and the 
coracoid, the true clavicle being wanting- ; the three bones reappear in tlie lizards ; 
there are two in the tortoise, the scapula and coracoid, or perha])S three, for there 
are traces of a clavicle ; there are certainly four in the frog, the clavicle, coracoid, 
and an omoplate, divided into two pieces; and, what is remarkable, it is precisely 
of these two pieces of the omoplate that the shoulder of fishes is composed. Tho 
sternum in the crocodile is a single 1)one; in the tortoise it is always composed 
t>f nine pieces ; it recovers in the lizard the simplicity which it exhibits in the croco- 
dile ; it has but two ossified pieces in the frog; a sort of sternum is hardly dis- 
coveralde in certain fishes; in the mammals, on tho contrary, it is highly developed; 
here we count as many as seven, eight, nine pieces, placed ordinarily on a single 
line; and as to birds, there are five pieces in the gallinacea; there are not more 
than two in ducks ; its composition is again changed in pigeons, in sparrows, in 
birds of prey, &c. Thus the sternum not only varies from one class to another, 
it varies in the same class, and that in the very class of birds where, in general, 
unity or conformity of organization is so constant and conspicuous. 

But, in reference to this question of osteological unity in vertebrate animals, 
there are two apparatus which have a peculiar importance : these are the aurkuJar 
and the Injokl apparatus. By tho auricular apparatus we here designate a chain 
of small bones, placed within the tympanum of the ear, and which extends from 
its membrane to the fenestra ovcdis. In the mammals we count ahvays four 
of these small bones, the malleus, the incus, the lenticular, and the stapes; in 
the birds we find but one, fonned of two branches, one of which adheres to the 
tympanum, the other presses upon the fenestra oralis; in like m.anner a single 
ossicle replaces, in the crocodile, the four small bones of the ear of mammals ; it 
is a stapes still more simple than that of birds; * there is but a single ossicle in 
the tortoise, the lizard, the serpent ; in the frog, the auricular chain might be pro- 
nounced somewhat complex did it not remain in great part cartilaginous ; lastly, 
in the salamanders, the sirens, the protei, the last auditory ossicle itself, the 
stapes, is reduced to a simple cartilaginous plate. From this to the complex 
apparatus of the mammals is certainly a wide interval, and when we thus follow 
step by step this successive simplification, when we arrive thus at that final 
reduction of the whole apparatus to a simi)le cartilaginous plate, we recognize 
the full force of j\[. Cuviei-'s opinion that this apparatus, after having disappeared 
in the aerial verteV)vates, is not all at once restored in the class of fishes, there to 
form the opercuhi, and that these opercula are conserpiently a special apparatus 
appropriate to this latter class. 

The facts which concern the inverse progression of the hi/oid npparatus, that is 
to say, its gradual development from the mammals to fishes, are still more import- 
ant, and, in relation to theories of the skeleton, more decisive. In man this appa- 
ratus is composed of five parts : of a l)ody, of two branches or anterior processes 
"which suspend the hyoid to the cranium, and of two posterior ones which suspend 
the larynx to the hyoid. Even in the mammals the apparatus undergoes great 
modifications, depending on the form of its body, the soldering of this to the pos- 
terior branches more or less promptly, the number, shape, and proportion of the 
anterior branches. In birds these anterior branches are no longer attached to 
the craniinn,'but simpl}' pass around and behind it ; to the back j)art of the body 
of the l)Oiie is soldered a single slender ])one, on which rests the larynx, and 
which, in itself alone, represents the two posterior branches; in front is another 
bon<^ which penetrates into the tongue, l/cing thelinguul l)one. 

The h/joid of the crocodile is one of the most simple. Its body consists of a 

* We. iiiig^ht, in truth, give the name of malleus to that brnuch which in birds and croco- 
diles is inserted in the membrane of the tympanum, but still there would be neither incus nor 
lenticular ossicle. 



158 HISTORY OF THE WORKS OF CUVIER. 

thick and broad cartilaginous plate, without any ver}'^ distinct vestig-e of the pos- 
terior branches, and a single ossified piece, representing the anterior branches. 
The hyoid of lizards is much more coin])lex, and that of the tortoise even more 
so than that of the lizard. * * * Bnt it is in the batrachians, chiefly, that 
the hyoid acquires importance, and thus leads by degrees to the hyoid of lishes, 
so rich and complicated. To explain tliis richness of the hyoid apparatus in 
fish, recourse had been had to a pretended intercalation which hae? taken place 
of pieces borrowed at once from the sternum, the larynx, and the ribs. It will 
be perceived that the metamor})liosis of the frog, which, in its first period, respires 
by brouchicS or gills, like the lish, which at a later period resi)ires by lungs, like 
the land animals, and the bronchial apparatus of which changes by degrees, 
and visibly, into a true hyoid, should have settled all difficulty in this respect. 
M. Cuvier, therefore, made this singular metamorphosis a detailed study ; he 
followed it in its whole progress ; he saw the branchiae and branchial arches suc- 
cessively fall ; he saw the proper hyoid of the adult frog take shape proportion- 
ably ; and at no time, even at that of the greatest complication, when the bran- 
chial arches and the branchise existed, neitlier did the sternum nor the larynx 
take, nor could the}* take, any part in this whole composition ; for the branchial 
apparatus still very distinctly exists, with all its parts, which are clearly to be 
seen, as well as the larynx, Avith its dependent lungs, and the sternum, with 
the bones which rest against it. The hyoid of the salamander is metamorphosed 
like that of the frog, and the branchial apparatus, in the same way, still very 
distinctly subsists, although the larynx, the lungs, and the sternum, are also pres- 
ent; and all this acquires new force from what is observed so plainly in the 
axolotl, the proteus, the siren, animals in which the branchial apparatus exists 
simultaneously, and in a constant manner, wath the larynx, the tracheal artery, 
&c. The branchial apparatus is, therefore, only a more complex hyoidian ap})a- 
ratns, and not one resulting from the combination of parts foreign to it, and 
derived from neighboring organs. 

Each apparatus has, therefore, its proper constitution ; it has its marked incre- 
ments and decrements ; its parts change from one class to another in form, in 
number, in complexity ; and it is these very changes which determine the organic 
characters of classes, of orders, of genera, of species. What, then, must be 
understood by miiti/, or, to speak more exactly, by conformiiy of organisation^ 
by conformity of plan, in the vertebrate animals, at least in what regards their 
osseous system, if not an assemblage of graduated analogies, more constant in 
the essential apparatus, more variable in the accessory, and of which the limit 
cannot be given, for each appai'atus, except by the direct and consecutive study 
of all the modifications of that apparatus, in all the classes? Kow this consecu- 
tive study of an apparatus through ail the classes, and of all the graduated mod- 
ifications Avhich it undergoes from one class to another, is })recisely what consti- 
tutes the most distinctive feature of Cuvier's method, and the point which ought 
perhaps most to fix the attention of right-minded inquirers ; for it is on the rig- 
orous and special adaptation of the method to its object, that depends the exact- 
ness of the results. Now, what is here the question ? Of following, of recog- 
nizing an apparatus through all its metamorphoses of number, of form, of com- 
plication of parts. And is it not plain that to lose sight of a single intermedi- 
ate metamorphosis would sufiice to render impossible all recognition of those 
which follow, would be to lose the thread w'hich connects one with the other, nay, 
to lose the apparatus itself ? The principle of successive and graduated modifi- 
cations, employed by M. Cuvier, is one, then, of the most fruitful as well as most 
ingenious means of investigation with which he has enriched science, and the 
only one which can give, in a sure and precise manner, both the determination 
of each apparatus, and the limit of its analogies or its dissimilarities in each class. 



HISTORY OF THE WORKS OF CUVIER. 159 

TI. — RESEARCHES ON FOSSIL BONES.* 

Tile first object of this work is the comp.arison of fossil with living species; 
and this coni]-)aris()n bears principally on two classes of vertebrate animals : mam- 
mals and rcptUcs. The author commences this comparative history of the 
species of the ancient and the actual world, with the pachydermata ; he contin- 
u(?s it with the ruminants, the carnivora, the rodentia, the edeutata, and the ceta- 
cea; and concludes with the reptiles. The fundamental result of the whole 
work is, that no fossil spoci(^s, or scarcely any, at least in the two classes of uiam- 
mifers and reptiles, has its analogue among living species. It has been already 
fjaid that io arrive at this result, it \vas necessary that the author should review 
all the fossil species, that he should compare them all, and one by one, with all 
the living species, and it has been shown to what precise, rigorous, and almost 
infallible laws he has sttbjccted the admirable art of reconstructing all theA* 
lost species froui their scattered remains. I shall apply myself here chiefly +1 
another point : that of the particular and detailed comparison of fossil with exidt- 
ing species. 

I begin, as M. Cuvier hae done, with the pachydermata. This family, natural 
as it is, was almost entirely overlooked by Linnaeus. Storr, who had clearer 
conceptions of it, characterizes it by this definition : mammals with hoofs tciih 
more then two toes. Btit Avithout speaking of the anoplotherhun, a fossil species 
which has only two toes, and which is not the less a tj'ue pachyderm, it is 
evident, from a consideration of the whole structure, that the solipcds should be 
united to the ordinary pachydermata. The number of the toes, therefore, can 
no more bo taken into consideration in this family than in the others. Cuvier 
defines it: animals with hoofs, non-ruminants. Before him, the order or family 
of pachydermata comprised bitt live genera: the elephant, the rhinoceros, the 
hippopotamus, the tajjir, and the hog. M. Cuvier introdu.ced into it two other 
genera, the horse and the daman. * * * Considered in their relations to the 
revolutions of the gU)be, the fossil pachydermata form two groups : the pachy- 
dermata of loose and alluvial formations, and those of the plaster quarries, so 
abuijdantly accumulated in the epvirons of Paris. To the former pertain the 
fossil elephant, mastodon, hippopotamus, rhinoceros, horse, &c. ; to the second, 
the palaBOtherium, the anoplotherium, the lophiodon, the anthracotherium, the 
chajropotanms, the adapis. All the species of the first of these two groups are 
now lost ; but the greater part of its genera subsists. Not so with the second, 
in which both genera and species arc equally extinct. * * * Beginning 
with the pacliydermata of loose and alluvial formations, the first of these animals 
which M. Cuvier studied under this new point of view, of the conq)arison of 
fossil with living species, was the elephant. 

Till then, almost everything relative to this singular quadruped was alike 
unknown. It was not known, at least with any precision, whether there was 
only a single species of ele|)hant or several species, nor, with stronger reason, 
whether the fossil bones might be refeiTcd or not to the living s})ecies. The first 
truly specific distinction of these animals, that which is founded on the structuic 
of their molar teeth, only goes l)ack to Camper. Blumenbach had also seen this 
difference in the iorm and nimiber of the lamina; of the molar teeth, which dis- 
tinguishes the elephant of Africa from that of the Indies ; but so far this was 
all, and it is to Cuvier that we owe the determination of all the other differ- 
ences, derived from the l>ones of the skull, from those of the face, and of the 

'The first edition ol" this great work, published iu 18J2, was scarcely more than the 
reunion of the memoirs, inserted successively by tiio autiior, iu the Annales du Miiscutn 
d'luhtoire nalurcKe. The second edition appeared from 1BI2 to 1824. It is uot only enriched 
with a prcat number ol' new facts, but tlio entire work is recast throuphoul;, and arraiif^ed in 
more uu^thodical order. The third edition is of JB'iS, and is dist.nfjiiislied from the secinid 
by certaiu additions to the Inlroduction, which latter has been oiien printed separately, and 
has become celebrated under the title of Discours sur tes r^colutions de la surj'uca d it globe. 



160 HISTORY OF THE WOEKS OF CUVIEU. 

entire skeleton. He shows that it is from thesO' bones, especially those of the 
sliiill, as well as from their teeth, ears, &c., that the two living species, that of 
Africa and that of India, are distinguished from each other; thus the species of 
India has the head long, the forehead flat, or even concave, while that of Africa 
has the head round and forehead convex ; the former has the laminae of its molar 
teeth in the form of wavy or festooned ribands ; in the latter these lamina? are 
lozenge-shaped; this last has larger cars and tusks, &c. As to the fossil species 
or mammoth of Eussia, it is essentially distinguished from the two living species, 
and in particular from the species of India, to which, however, it is most nearly 
allied, by its molars, the lamina? of which are closer and straighter, by the alveoli 
of its tusks, which are longer, by its lower jaw, which is more ol>tnse, &c. ; 
finall}^, the entire individual, discovered in 1806, on the coast of Siberia, has 
taught us that it liad two sorts of hair, a reddish, coarse, and tufted wool, and 
long, black and stiff hairs.* To this it ma}'- be added that the bones of this 
last species are never found but in a fossil state, and that, on the contrary, the 
bones of the other two species are never found in that state. The fossil is, there- 
fore, a lost species. Further, its bones, dispersed through almost all the conn- 
tries of the world, are always found in the same stn^a as those of the mastodon, 
the rhinoceros, and the hippopotamus. All these species, then, are of the same 
epoch, and are all alike extinct. Among them the species which approaches 
nearest to the elephant is the mastodon ; it was of the same general form, had 
feet of the same structure, a proboscis, and long tusks ; yet these were essential 
differences, as well from these tusks being curved in the opposite direction to 
those of the elephant as from the circumstance that the molar teeth, instead of 
being formed of transverse laminee, presented a simple corona well furnished 
with tubercular or mamillated prominences. The mastodon is the largest of 
fossil animals, yet Daubenton fell into the error of referring a part of its bones 
to the elephant and another part to the hippopotamus. W. Hunter pointed out 
that the mastodon differs sensibly from both those animals. Camper showed 
that it more closely approximated to the first than to the second. Finally, M. 
Cuvier has completely demonstrated that the mastodon was neither elephant 
nor hippopotamus, and that, though nearer to the former, it is essentially distin- 
guished from it by its jaw-teeth ; and that not only as regards species but genus. 
That genus itself already comprises as many as six species, of which the most 
celebrated is the great mastodon or animal of the Ohio, which has left its bones 
only in North America. Another species, long confounded with the latter, has 
been distinguished from it by M. Cuvier; this was the mastodon tvitli narroio 
teeth, the bones of which are found in both continents. Of four other species, 
two pertained to America and two to Europe. The genus of elephants showed 
us Init one species destroj'ed ; the entire genus of mastodons has perished. 

Tlie genus hippopotamus, which, so far, is known to possess but one living 
species, numbers already several fossil species. The first or largest, and the only 
one regarding which some imperfect notions were entertained before M. Cuvier, 
differed nearly as much from the living species as the fossil elephant from living 
elepliants. A second, the small fossil hippopotamus, differed much more. The 
others are as yet little known. The bones of the hippopotamus accompany, in 
many places, those of elephants and mastodons, but they are much more rare ; 
the upper Val d'Arno is hitherto the only site where they have been found in any 
abundance. 

After the genus hippopotamus comes that of the rhinoceros. Here, as with 
the rest, the osteology and the distinction of living species are always the two 
points of comparison to which the whole study of fossil bones and species refers 

* The bones which were shown at Paris, towards the comraeucement of the 17th century, 
as being the bones of King Teutohoclius, and which were the subject of a long controversy 
between Habicot and Riolau, arc now at the museum. They arc not those of an elephant, as 
Kiolan thought, but of the mastodon. 



HISTORY OF THE WORKS OF CUVIER. IGl 

itself. "We know at present four living species of the rhinoceros. The first is 
the rhinoceros hicornis, of the Cape, which has molars, hut no incisors; the sec- 
ond is the rhinoceros unicornis, of the Indies, which has incisors separatcnl from 
the molars by a vacant space ; the third, the rhinoceros of Sumaira, appears to 
form, as it were, an intermediate species between the two jn-eceding, lor it has 
two horns like the rhinoceros of the Cape, and incisors like that of India. The 
fourth is the rhinoceros unicornis of Java. Thus, there are four living species; 
two having one horn, two having a second horn. Tlic number of fossil species 
is not clearly established. The most celebrated, that whose nostrils are sepa- 
rated by a bony partition, is found in Siberia, and in different parts of Ger- 
many. The second, that whose nostrils are not separated by a bone, has been 
thus far found only in Italy. Both species had two horns, and both appear to 
have wanted incisors. As to other species, to the number of two or three, they 
are as yet indicated only by a few fragments. It was to the species with parti- 
tioned nostrils that the entire rhinoceros, withdrawn in 1770 from the ice on the 
banks of the Wilhoui, belonged. This rhinoceros was covered with a thick coat 
of hail", much like the fossil elephant, which seems to prove that both could live 
at the north. "Thus," says M. Cuvier, "the cold countries which surround the 
pole must have had, at the epoch which preceded the last revolution of the globe, 
the great pachydermata, as they have now the great ruminants; the musk-ox, the 
bison, the elk, the Canadian stag, the reindeer, the great carnivora, the white bear, 
the morse, and so many large seals." 

We know, as yet, only the lower jaw of the elasmofheriitm, a fossil genus of 
Siberia, discovered by M. Fischer, a genus entirely lost, like the mastodon, and 
which, to judge from this jaw, must, in form and stature, have appi'oximated to 
the rhinoceros. The genus cquus has left a great number of its bones, mingled 
with those of the elephant and rhinoceros; but there has been thus far no osteo- 
logical difference observed between these fossil species and the living species; 
and what is not less singular is, that none has been found, at least none suffi- 
ciently fixed and decided to be really characteristic, between the different living 
species of this genus : the horse, the ass, the zebra, the quagga, &c. The bones 
. of the hog have not yet been discovered in any strata so old as those of the fos- 
sil elephant, horse, and rhinoceros. M. Cuvier gives, however, the osteology of 
this genus, for his work has two objects equally important : the determination of 
fossil species, and the elements and means of this determination ; that is to say, 
the general laws of comparative osteology. Thns, it is only to establish this 
great assemT)lage of osteological facts and laws that he gives the description of 
the daman, for neither have the remains of this animal been found among fossil 
bones. The daman, a small animal of Africa and Arabia, passed for a rodent. 
M. Cuvier shows that it is a true pachyderm, and the one, indeed, which of all 
others, approaches nearest to the rhinoceros. A genus not less singular than 
that of the daman, and the osteology of which was not less unknown, is that of 
the tapirs. These number at {)resent three living species : two of America and 
one of the Indies ; and M. Cuvier describes several fossil animals related to the 
tapirs.* 

The elephant, the rhinoceros, the hippopotamus, the mastodon, &c., as here 
described, were the pachydermata of the alluvial formations. We see that all 
their species are distinct from the living species; that they are all lost, and that 
they were all destroyed at the same epoch and by the same catastroidie ; for their 
bones are found in the sanie deposits, everywhere united and mingled together, 
'^riie fossil pa<;hydermata which we are about to consider are all of another epoch, 
and one much more remote; tifid nearly all of these were discovered by M. 
Cuvier, in those plaster-quan-ies of Paris, which have thence become so celebra- 

* As regards his gis^nntic tapir, we now know that it is a very difl'orent animal from the 
tapirs. This gn-at tapir of M. Cuvier is the Deinotlierium giganteitm, the head of which has 
been made known to us by MM. de Klipsteiu and Kaup. M. Cuvier scarcely knew any 
purt of it but the molar teeth. 
11 S 



1G2 HISTOEY OF THE WORKS OF CUVIER. 

ted ; tliey arc the palcnotlieriiim, the anoj)JofJiermm, the chceropotamuSy the adapis. 
The bones of all these genera — most of which include several species — were 
mingled and confounded together. It was necessary to begin by separating them ; 
it was necessary, then, to assign each bone to its species, and finally to recon- 
struct the entire skeleton from each of them ; and it was here that tlie method 
devised by the author for this reconstruction was exhibited in all its efficacy. 

In reo'ard to fossil species, the teeth are always the first part to be studied, 
and the most iurportant, for it is from the teeth that it must be determined 
whether the animal was carnivorous or herbivorous, and even, in some cases, to 
what particular order of such animals it pertained. M. Cuvier then having 
re-established the complete series of teeth which were found to be most common 
amono- those which he had collected, soon saw that they proceeded from two dif- 
ferent species, of which one was provided with prominent canine teeth, and which 
the other wanted. The restitution of the teeth thus gave two species of pachy- 
dermata : the one with prominent canines, being the palceotherium; the other, 
Avithout them, or with a continuous series of teeth, the anoplothcriiim. Further, 
this restitution of itself showed, in each of these species, the type of a new 
genus ; two genera related to the tapir and rhinoceros, but two genera entirely 
lost; for no living pachyderm reproduces, even generically, their dental system. 
And such, on the other hand, was the rigor of the zoological laws followed by 
tlie autlior, that the teeth having given him two distinct genera, it could not be 
doubted that all the other parts of the skeleton, the head, trunk, feet, all min- 
gled indiscriminately with one another and with these teeth, would be also of 
two diflerent genera. He at once foresaw, therefore, for each of these genera, 
a head, a trunk, feet of a particular form, as he had found for them an appro- 
priate dental system ; and he was not long in finding all that he had foreseen. 

The teeth being re-established, the restitution of the heads claimed his atten- 
tion, and it was soon evident that these also were of two genera. Next to the 
teetli and head, the feet are the most characteristic part of the skeleton, and 
their restitution gave likewise two genera. It remained, therefore, only to refer 
^ach foot to its head, and each head to its dental system. Now, the restitution 
of the hind feet had shown them to be of two kinds, some with three toes, others 
only two ; and the restitution of the fore feet had yielded the same result. Avail- 
ing himself, by turns, of the general analogy of the species which he reproduced 
with the nearest living species, and of the particular relations of proportion 
and size' of the diiferent parts in question, one with another, M. Cuvier first 
united the hind feet with two toes to the fore feet with two, and repeated the 
process with those having three ; and always guided by the same analogy, the 
same relations, he united the former with the dental system which was destitute 
of prominent canines, and the latter with the dental system which had them. 
He thus united in succession, for each genus, all the bones of the head, the trunk, 
the extremities; he reproduced, finally, the entire skeleton, and scarcely was 
this great labor terminated when, l)y a singular hazard, a nearly complete skele- 
ton of one of them, found at Pantin, came to confirm all the results which had 
been obtained. In this skeleton, so fortunately discovered, all the bones were 
united together as M. Cuvier had united them ; nature having acted no other- 
wise than the admirable laws discerned hy him and his own wonderful sagacity 
had acted. 

A fh'st species of each genus being in this manner reconstnicted, their number 
was not slow in augmenting. M. Cuvier soon counted five species of anoplothc- 
riums, and not less than 11 or 12 palccotlieriums. All the former are from the 
environs of Paris ; the most common was of the size of the ass; another of that of 
the hog; & third, of that of the gazelle ; a fourth, of that of the hare ; a fifth was 
still smaller. Among the pahijotheriums there were, at Paris alone, seven species ; 
one the size of the horse, one of the tapir, one of the sheep, one of the liare, &c; 
another species discovered near Orleans, nearly equalled in size the rhinoceros. 



HISTORY OF THE WORKS OF CUVIER. 163 

The palasotlieviam wliicli, at Paris, always accompanies the anoph>therinni, is 
accoiiipauiod ahiiost evciywhcre else by another e^enns not less remarkable, and 
which, by a singnlar exception, is absolutely wanting at Paris, the lophlodon. 
This new genus, also approximated greatly to the tapirs, like the palaeotlieriuin 
and anojilotherium ; is, like these last, entirely lost, aiid like them, already rich 
in species. M. Cuvier has made known a dozen, all of France. The genus 
cltccropotamus and the genus adapis number each but one species. The genus 
anthracothcrium numbers two, one of which approached tlu^ rhinoceros in size. 
The two former genera are of the environs of Paris; the third was first found 
near Savona, and afterwards in Alsace and Velay. 

With these numerous pachydcrmata, first among terrestrial mammals to 
occu})y the earth, M. Cuvier collected the remains of carnivora of the genus of 
the dog, the genet, the raccoon, &c. ; a bat of the genus vespertilio ; a species of 
didelphys; two rodents, one pertaining to the dormouse, the other to the squirrel ; 
six species of birds, relics of the crocodile, the irionijx, the cdv/s, and certain 
species of fresh-water fish. But to restrict ourselves to tlie pachydermata which 
form, beyond comparison, the most important part of this anti(pie animal colo- 
nization of the globe, we have nearly 40 species and five genera totally lost ; 
and what is not less noticeable, none of their species are found mingled with 
those of the elephant and the mastodon. The two classes of animals belonged 
therefore to two essentially distinct ages. 

To the pachydermata succeeded, in M. Cuvier's investigations, the ruminants. 
It is only in the alluvial formations that the bones of these abound, and here 
two genera especially show' themselves in great number : the stag and the ox. 
* * * It is In the caverns of Germany, England, France, &c., that the fos- 
sil remains of the carnivora especially abound. After having extricated the liv- 
ing species of these animals from the confusion which had thus far attended their 
determination, M. Cuvier proceeds to describe the fossil species — four species of 
bears : that of the caves, the most numerous of all, the arctoid bear, the inter- 
mediate bear, the bear with flattened teeth ; a hyena, almost as abundant as 
that of the bears, which is most so ; two tigers, a wolf, a mouffet, two weasels, 
a glutton, &c. The fossil rodentia are not numerous. T'he great beds of the 
loose formations have yielded hitherto but one large species of the beaver, called 
by M. Fischer the irofjonthcrium. The bone breccia gives two species of the 
lagcnvys, two of the rabbit, of the field mouse, the rat, &c. 

The order of the edentata has two fossil, but gigantic species : the mcgahnyx, 
of the size of the largest ox, and the megatherium, of that of the largest rhi- 
noceros. These two enormous species are from America. An unguiculate 
phalanx, found in a canton of the Palatinate, not far from the Rhine, indicates 
a third species related to the pangolin, and quite as gigantic as the two others. 
So much for the inhabitants of the land formations. The cetacea all pertain 
to strata essentially marine. Here, with the cetacea, occur the amphibious mam- 
mals, the seal and the walruss. A first group of these marine mammals, whose 
osteology and living sjjecies themselves were then so little known, preceded all 
the terresti'ial mammals. Their remains disclosed to M. Cuvier bones of the 
dolphin, the lamantin or manatee, and the walruss. A second group had suc- 
ceeded the pal<Bothcriums ; and among them M. Cuvier recognized a dolphin, a 
whale, and an entire genus wholly lost, the ziphius, related to the sperm w Iiak'S 
and hypjeroodons. 

We C(;me now to the reptiles. M. Cuvier considers in succession the crocodiles, 
tortoises, lizards, batrachians, and concludes with the extraordinary fainily of 
the ichthjOHaurus and the p)lcsiosaurus. The fossil crocodiles ari; very numerous, 
M. Cuvier having described as many as fifteen species. The fossil tortoises are 
even more numerous still, from sixteen to seventeen species liaving been already 
discriminated ; among them, several of the trionyx, several of tlie emys, or the 
tortoise of fresh water, several of the chelnnia, or tortoises of the sea, and some 



164 HISTORY OF THE WOEKS OF CUVIER 

terrestrial tortoises. The order of hatracMans has lint one fossu species : the 
gigantic salamander of (Eningen, or the pretended fossil man — the homo diluvii 
testis of Scheuchzer. The order of reptiles which presents the most estra- 
ordinaiy fossil species is that of the saurians. In the first place, most of them 
were gigantic. A first species, the great samian of Manheim — the lacerta gigantea 
of Soemmering, the gcosaicrus of M. Cuvier — was twelve or thirteen leet in 
length ; a second, the mosasanrus, the great saurian of the quarries of Maes- 
tricht, long taken for a crocodile, was more than twenty-four ; and a third, truly 
gigantic, the megalosaurus, was more than seventy. Here, then, we have a liz- 
ard which surpassed the largest crocodiles, and in size even approached the 
whale. This, it is known, was discovered by Dr. Buckland, in the oolitic beds 
of Stonesfield, near Oxford. M. Cuvier further makes known some remains of 
the fossil monitors of Thuringia, of a great saurian at Honlieur, of a gigantic 
saurian in the quarries of Caen, &c. 

The genus of pterodactyls^ or flying lizards, though not remarkable for its 
size, is eminently so for its singular structure : a very short tail, a neck very long, 
a bird's beak, a finger of the anterior extremity prodigiously elongated, and thus 
elongated to support a sort of wing. There are two species of pterodactyls : 
one of the size of a bat, the other rather larger. It is needless to add that the 
genus is wholly extinct. But something still more strange in point of structure, 
is that presented by two other genera of saurians, both likewise extinct: the 
iclithyosaiirus and plcsiosaurus; the former uniting at once the snout of a dol- 
phin, the teeth of a crocodile, the head and sternum of a lizard, paws of the 
cetacea, but to the number of four, and the vertebrae of a fish ; the latter join- 
ing to these paws the head of a lizard, and a neck of such inordinate length that 
more than thirty vertebrae are counted therein. Both these extraordinary animals 
were found for the first time in England, but have since been discovered in Ger- 
many and France. The discovery of the first of these genera was due to Sir 
Everard Home ; that of the last to Mr. Conybeare. Already four species of 
the ichthyosaurus are known, and five of the plesiosaunis. 

These reptiles, so numerous and so varied, crocodiles, tortoises, the vast sal- 
amander, the strange or gigantic saurians, joined with Crustacea, mollusks, zoo- 
phytes, fishes, marine mammals formed the first animal colonists which occu- 
pied the globe ; the second were those of the epoch of the palseotherium ; the 
third, those of the epoch of the mastodon ; the fourth are those of the actual 
epoch. Without counting the last, there have been three distinct eras of animal 
life : that of the reptiles, that of the palgeotheriums, that of the mastodons ; and 
after each successive family of living beings, the sea has returned to repossess 
itself of the land, retreating afterwards in favor of a new order of creatures; 
for marine strata constantly succeed to the terrestrial strata, and animals which 
have lived in the sea constantly succeed to animals which have lived on dry land. 

Such is the assemblage of fossil species, reconstructed by M. Cuvier. We 
have seen the precise laws on which this reconstruction is founded. The high- 
est of these laws is the principle of the correlation of forms; a principle by means 
of which we are enabled, to a certain point, to determine from each part all the 
others ; for each part has a necessary relation to all the others, and all to each. 
Thus, and to cite again a new example of this great law of organic correlations, 
the form of the teeth, and even, in certain cases, the form of a single tooth, gives 
that of the condyle of the jaw ; the form of this condyle gives that of the 
glenoid cavity which receives it ; this condyle, this cavity, give the zygomatic 
arch, the temporal foss, in which the muscles are attached which move the jaw. 
The form of all these parts, that is to say, the mode of manducation, gives the 
stomach, the intestines, that is to say, the mode of digestion ; this again gives the 
mode of prehension, or the form of the feet ; for if the animal is herbivorous, it 
has no need of the feet except to support its body, it will suffice for it to have 
hoofs ; and if it is carnivorous, it will necessarily require, on the contrary, divided 
feet, that is to say digits for seizing its prey and tetiring it. 



HISTORY OF THE WORKS OP CUVIER. 165 

Bv proceeding thus from one part to another, we apprehend the reL^tions which 
bind' each of them, first to tliat whicli follows, and then nearer and nearer to all 
the others, even to the most remote, without the chain of relations being ever 
at any part broken or detached. From each part, and even in appearance the 
most insignificant part, we may therefore infer all the others, and the entire 
animal itself. 

For example: that claw of the pangolin, found in the Palatinate, huge as it 
is, demonstrates of itself a lost species; and from this claw alone we might infer, 
as M. Cuvier well says, all the revolutions of the globe. In eflFect, this claw 
necessaril}' gives ns a toe, and this toe a limb, and this limb a trunk, and this 
trunk a cranium, a head, proportionate all with one another ; that js to say a 
gigantic pangolin, consequently a lost species, consequently revolutions, subver- 
sions experienced by the earth, and which have destroyed that species. But I 
confine myself here to recalling those great laws on which I have dwelt at more 
length elsewhere, and which astonish us less, perhaps, by their extent than by 
the amount of evidence which they carry with them. 



MEMOIR OF OERSTED. 



BY C. M. kUE DE BEAUMONT,* PERPETUAL SECRETARY OF THE FRENCH ACADEMY OF 

SCIENCES. 



{^Translated for the Smithsonian Institution by C, A. Alexander,'\ 



Science, like nature, is one ; tlie frontiers of states, the limits of populations, 
arrest not its propagation. In all civilized countries men calculate with the 
same figures, measure with the same instruments, avail themselves of the same 
classifications. Scientific bodies animated by a common spirit collect, by analo- 
gous means, the results of the general labor ; and all these associations, to give 
a higher sanction to their mutual collaboration, have desired that the most 
eminent and celebrated of the savants of foreign countries should constitute a 
part of their oflicial list. 

Among the illustrious persons on whom the Academy has successively con- 
ferred the title, so justly coveted, of one of its eight foreign associates, few have 
better justified the distinction than he to whom we owe the knowledge that the 
mariner's compass and the lightning conductor present only different effects of 
identically the same physical agent. 

Jean-Christian Oerstedt was l)orn August 14, 1777, at Rudkjobing, in the 
island of Langeland, one of the smallest of the archipelago of Denmark. His 
father exercised the profession of apothecary, and, although the town of Rudk- 
jobing then counted less than 1,000 inhabitants, he had full occupation. For 
fear that the young Christian should not be properly looked after in the paternal 
dwelling, he yvassent everyday to the house of a wig-maker, whose wife enjoyed 
the confidence of his parents. A brother, one year younger, who became in after 
life the celebrated jurisconsult Andre Sandoe Oersted, acccompanied him thither 
the following year. The wig-maker and his wife formed a warm attachment for 
the two brothers. The wife taught them to read ; the husband instructed them 
in German, which was his mother tongue. The pupils made rapid progress, 
owing, perhaps, in reality more to a happy natural aptitude than to any talent 
in the teachers, but which sufficed to induce many other families to send their 
own children likewise to this improvised school where knowledge w"as imparted 
so quickly and so well. The wig-maker, transformed into schoolmaster, daily 
read to his pupils some pages of a German Bible, which w^as thus perused from 
beginning to end, and afterwards, in great part, read over anew. It was the 
daily task of the young Christian to translate word l»y w^ord into Danish what 
had been read in German, and this exercise so far profited him that at the age 
of seven years he often embarrassed by his citations those who sought to put his 
'sagacity to the test; whence the gossips of the vicinage .used to say of him, 
This child ivill not live; he has too much smartness ! 

* Head at the annual public sitting of the Academy, December 29, 1862. 

1 1 write the name of Oersted as it has always been written in the publications of the 
Academy. In this the German orthography has been followed, while it would perhaps have 
been preferable to conform. to the Danish orthography, in which the name is wrilten Orsted, 
or without the majuscule Orsted. In Denmark it is pronounced Eursted, which is also the 
German pronunciation of the word Otrsied, whence we are wrong in habitually pronouncing 
it as if it were written Erstcd. 



MEMOIR OF OERSTED. 1G7 

The wic;-maker further taught him additi'ou and suhtractiun ; it was all he 
hitnsflf knew oi" arithmetic ; but with a sliij-ht help iVoui others, and a book Ibund 
at his lather's^ the child was not slow in learnin<^ the rest as far as the rule uf 
three, inclusive; no equivocal proof of unusual precocity of intellect. An extra- 
ordinary memory was early remarked in him, and was retained till death, equally 
with all the other happy endowments which he had received from nature. 

When Christian had reached the age of 12, he and his brother, who was then 
11, entered as apprentices the pharmacy of their father, whereby their secret 
wishes were at first contravened, for both had conceived the project of devotin"- 
themselves to the study of theology. The elder of the two, however, soon beo-an 
to acquire a taste for pharmaceutical operations, and labored zealously in the 
paternal laboratory, reading at the same time all the books of cheraikry and 
natural history which fell into his hands. Thus early was developed the incli- 
nation which led him to the study of nature. A student in theology daily devo- 
ted some hours to the instruction of the brothers in Greek and Latin. The elder 
applied himself moreover to the acquisition of the French, the younger to that of 
the English language. From this period the former evinced a decided taste for 
poetry, a taste which adhered to him all his life. He translated about this 
time several odes of Horace and a part of the Ilcnriade into Danish. 

These rather precarious means of instruction still bore happy fruits. In the spriii"- 
of the year 1794, the brothers, aged respectively 17 and 16, were qualified to pro- 
ceed to Copenhagen, where, after but a few months' preparation by a skillful master, 
who perfected them in the study of the ancient languages, they sustained with 
much honor an examination at their exit from the academy. Some two years 
afterwards Christian, who had in the mean time earned testimonials of distinction 
on all hands, bore off an academic prize for his reply to a question " On the 
shades to be observed in the choice of expressions, according as one writes in 
prose or in verse." Finally, during the autumn of 1799, he obtained the degree 
of doctor of philosophy npon the presentation of a thesis in metaphysics, (de 
forma metapltysices demcntaris naturce externcv.J 

In the year last named, and those immediately following, he published divers 
short dissertations and critical analyses, which were generally inserted in the 
periodical collections. He thus evinced in turn the tendency of his mind to 
literature, to poetry, and to philosophy. These formed, indeed, only an accessory 
occupation; but, apart from his natural predisposition, favoraljle circumstances 
rendered these momentary efforts of singular advantage in the develoi)ment of his 
faculties. His brother, Avith whom he always lived in the most cordial intimacy, 
had chiefly devoted himscdf to the study of })hilosophy, and the habit, which was 
maintained during life, of a daily interchange of ideas, led our physicist to a profit- 
able participation in the same pursuit. Having become familiar with the 
writings of Kant, Fichte, Schelling, he caught sight of a great general law of 
unity in the physical world, which continued always to bo one of the habitual 
suV)jects of his meditation. Struck at the same time Avith the beauty of natm-al 
laws, he became sensible of something profoundly poetic in nature, on which his 
innate taste for poetry seized with avidity. 

His first essays, which had fixed the attention of the citizens of Copenhagen, 
placed him on terms of friendly intimacy with most of his young (ujtenqioraries 
who were rising into distinction, particularly with Oelenschliiger, who, as a poet, 
achieved some years afterwards so brilliant and well-merited a reputation. This 
attractive intercourse impelled him to the study of belles-lettres. To no import- 
ant production of Danisli or German literature, or of the elder French literature, 
was he a stranger. His admirable memory was garnished with the choicest pas- 
sages, which, even at an advanced age, he was wont to cite with singular ap])osite- 
ness. Nor did he fail sometimes to exercise his own poetic powers, and, in the 
eyes of persons competent to judge of Danish verse, an Ode to the French, wliich 
he composed about this time, appeared to give indications of genuine talent. A 



168 MEMOIR OF OERSTED. 

happy concurrence of circumstances brong'lit Oersted also into intercourse with 
Steit'ens, and the two brothers Mynstcr, with whom he long continued to main- 
tain philosophical and even theological discussions, which, whatever their vivacity, 
were never permitted to interfere with the claims of a reciprocal friendship. 

The rectitude of his judgment always prevented these accessory exercises of 
thouo-ht from impairing the progress of his scientific studies ; but they did not a 
little contribute to draw general attention to him; a kindly attention which 
greatly facilitated the development of his subsequent career. 

Of that career positive science was always the basis, and his success was rapid. 
At his examination in pharmacy, May 20, 1797, he astonished his judges by the 
extent of his hnowlcdge, and one of them, on goiug away, having met with Pro- 
fessor Jlanthey, proprietor of the pharmacy in which Oersted had labored, 
addressed him in these words : " Wliat a candidate is this you have sent us ; he 
knows more than all of us together !" The following year Oersted obtained a 
new prize from the Academy ; this time on a question of medicine. In 1800 
Professor Manthe}', V)eing about to travel abroad, devolved on him the direction 
of his pharmacy, and nominated him to suppl}^ his place, during absence, in the 
lecture-room of the Academy of Surgery. The same year Oersted was received 
as adjunct of the faculty of medicine. 

At this epoch he occupied hi mself very actively with chemistry. The researches 
of Wintrel on the simple galvanic chain had already led to the conception of an 
electro-chemical theory, and Ritter had inferred, from the ordinary chemical and 
eleetrical facts, the identity of the forces which produce them. The labors of 
Berthollet on the laws of affinities had also introduced new general views on 
chemical forces. Herein lay the subjects of Oersted's investigations during the 
years 1799 and 1800. Earlier studies had prepared him for these general views, 
and efforts to surmount certain lines of demarcation established in science by dis- 
tinctions too decisive, had even directly revealed to him some of them. An 
analysis of the chemical philosophy of Fourcroy, read by Oersted in 1799 to the 
Scandinavian societ}'-, and printed the following year in its bulletin, is unfortu- 
nately the sole trace which remains for the public of these first essays. We find 
there the alkalis and earths already ranged in a single series, which, commencing 
with the most energetic alkalis, terminates with a body rather acid than alkaline, 
silicium preceded by aluminium. 

But, in 1800, the discovery of the electric pile by Volta threw all the chemists 
into commotion. Throughout Europe there was a desire to witness its effects. 
Everywhere were constructed similar piles or columns formed of pairs composed 
each of a disk of copper and a disk of zinc, pairs superposed on one another and 
separated by a piece of moistened cloth. Soon, every one, in the modish as in the 
learned world, knew by experience the strange shocks and sensations felt in the 
^vrists, in the elbows, when in each hand is held a metallic wire terminating at 
one of the two opposite poles of the pile, and one ie thus placed in the course of 
the electric current to which the pile gives rise. Oersted was not among the 
last to make experiments v/ith this wonderful instrument. Having applied it 
especially to the decomposition of divers saline solutions, he gave expression to 
this first law, that the quantities of alkalis and acids set at liberty in a solution, 
by the action of the pile, are in proportion to their respective capacities of satu- 
ration. Here, then, was a step in the career in which he was destined one day 
to immortalize himself. 

Oersted was now 23 years of age ; the time had come for him to travel, as, in 
their youth, the German and Scandinavian savants almost always do. He set 
out in 1801, and his absence extended to two and a half years. Everywhere 
he found with the learned a reception which surpassed the hopes of his friends. 
His natural animation, joined to a candid and unaffected self-reliance, stood him 
in better stead than the strongest letters of recommendation. His countenance 
seemed to announce a certain timidity, bat no sooner did any subject awaken in 



MEMOIR OF OERSTED, 169 

him a special interest, sncli as a point of science to discuss or eiTor to combat, 
than he was seen to put forth a bohlness, a force of intellect, an eloquence which 
would scarcely have been suspected from his modest exterior and reserved 
demeanor. 

He first traversed a great part of Germany, passed six months at Berlin, and 
sojoTuuied for some time at Friburg-, Jena, and Munich. A new life then ani- 
mated that country. Poets and philosophers of eminence had there given to the 
human mind an unexpected inipulse. This movement bore esi)ecially on the 
natural sciences, and that assemldage of somewhat vague ideas which was called 
the philosophy of nature was in process of development. Oersted, with his 
philosophic and poetic views on the unity and the beauty of nature, was suffi- 
ciently disposed to lend attention to the new German doctrines, and he himself 
avows their influence by saying, in the preface of one of his works, published in 
1813: " The philosophy of nature, which has been cultivated within 20 years 
in Gennany, might also assert its claim to some of the views which we are about 
to offer." Yet he never allowed himself to be turned aside from the severe and 
positive study of facts and of experiment. 

He enjoyed constant conversations with Klaproth, Hermstadt, Paul Erman, 
Trommsdortf, with Kielmeyer, the master and friend of Cuvier, with the celebrated 
Werner, at Friburg, and with the profound mineralogist and cry stall ographer Weiss. 
lie met also Fichte, Schelling, Franz Baader, Schleiermacher, Tieck, and the 
two Schlegels. But he associated himself more particularly with the ingenious 
phj-sicist Kitter, already celebrated for his experiments in galvanism, in which 
he had established, among other things, that a constant development of electricity 
accompanies the plienoniena of life. They executed in common a series of 
remarkable experiments, and Oersted conceived from that time a high opinion 
of the scientific capacity of his collaborator, which frequently appears in his 
writings, and particularly in the following passage of the preface of his Hescarclies 
on thelcknUtyof Chemical and Electrical Forces, published in 1813 : " Ritter may, 
in this respect, be regarded as a creator.* His grand conceptions, and his 
labors encotmtered with a zeal which obstacles and sacrifices were incapable of 
subduing, have shed light on almost all parts of the science." Oersted often 
expressed the opinion that, with more of sequence in his labors, Ritter would 
have discovered the electric pile before Volta. Unfortunately Ritter joined with 
a very ingenious mind great eccentricity, which crippled his pm'suits and abridged 
his days. 

After sojourning some time at IMunich with Ritter, Oersted published at Ratis- 
bon, in 1803, a small work entitled 3Iaferials for a Chemistry of the XlXth 
Century, in which occur highly interesting views respecting the new horizons 
opened to chemistry by the discovery of the Voltaic pile. Before parting with 
Ritter, who remained at Munich, Oersted had rendered him services which could 
only have been inspired'by a warm and symi)athizing friendship. He proceeded 
afterwards to Paris and passed there 15 months in habitual intercourse with 
Cuvier, Haiiy, Vanquelin, Charles, Berthollet, Biot, Guiton-Morveau, Thenard; 
assiduously following the courses of, the distinguished professors and sometimes 
making communications, on his own experiments, to the Philoinathic Society. 

Dining his stay at Paris he translated into French a German memoir of Ritter 
on the pile a charyer, or secondary ])il(;, {Lad/iny's Sdide). This translation, 
accorupanied by notes on the experiuients made by himself, was presented to 
the first class of the Institute and {)rinted in the Journal de Physique, number 
for Brumairc, an XII, (1803.) Ritter, who had co-operated in the translation by 
ail uuinterrujtted correspondence with Oersted, was fully satisfied with it, and 
even avoweil that he comprehended himself in the French v(!rsion better than in 
his own original German text. He died soon afterwards, and Oersted, independ- 

* See ResciiTchis snr r Indnntitf ties Furris Chitnir/iifs ct fUcctriqucs, by M. Oersted, tnius- 
lated from the German by M. Marcel de Serres, ldi:3, p. JU. ' 



170 MEMOIR OF OERSTED. 

ently of Lis own original ideas, remained tlie representative and, in some sort, the 
heir of those of Ritter, of whom he had been the last collaborator and interpreter. 

Some prepossessions, whatever their origin, perhaps the fear of being- received 
with a certain snperciliousness, had led Oersted to pass almost the Avhole time 
of his sojonrn in Paris without going to present to the celebrated Fourcroy, pro- 
fessor of chemistry at the Polytechnic School, a letter of professor Manthey, of 
Copenhagen. He decided at last to do so at the instance of the charge d' afiaires 
of Denmark. The elegance, the clearness, the authority with which Fourcroy 
discharged the functions of professor, gave him great ascendency over his pupils; 
but, out of the chair, he did not always sufficiently divest himself of the magis- 
terial dignity. He congratulated the young and modest Oersted on having come 
to Paris and having acquired a knowledge of so many remarkable men, superior 
beyond doubt to all the chemists of the north. '^ I must acknowledge," replied 
Oersted, " that you possess at Paris more dexterity than exists elsewhere in 
chemical manipulations ; ])ut there is scarcely to be found in the north a single 
chemist who cannot read in the original the Systeme des connaissances chimhptes 
of M. de Fourcroy, Avhicli few French chemists could do for works written in the 
Scandinavian languages." To the question, if he had seen the Polytechnic 
School, Oersted replied of course affirmatively, and Fom'croy having made him 
duly sensible that this school gave to Paris a great superiority over Denmark, 
Oersted rejoined, with perhaps too ingenuous a confidence: "I admit that my 
country wants much which is needed for the fruitful development of chemistry, 
but I do not d'espair of contributing hereafter to establish there something not 
unlike the Polytechnic School." Upon which, Fourcroy begged him, somewhat 
ironically, to be sure to preserve, when he returned home, a kind recollection of 
the French chemists. This Oersted did not fail to do, and I shall show further 
on how he proved it. 

In returning to Denmark, Oersted traversed Holland, and, at Harlem, made 
a great number of electrical experiments with the learned physicist Van Marum. 
At Bremen he contracted a friendship with the astronomer 01bers,,and with 
Treviranus, celebrated for his labors in physiology and comparative anatomy, 
and finally re-entered his country in the month of January, 1804. On his return, 
the duty, at first temporary and limited to three years, of delivering lectures on 
physics at the University of Copenhagen was confided to him ; in 1806 he was 
named professor extraordinary of physics in the same university. He had here 
the first opportunity of combining his scientific views in a systematic shape, the 
outline of which he preserved during his entire life, only modifying certain parts 
according to the progress of science. 

His lectures commanded a large attendance ; they bore a form which was 
peculiar to himself. The skillful professor nsuallv conmienced in a subdued 
tone, with particular considerations and explanations ; frequently, indeed, with 
the definition of certain expressions, turning on the translation of technical words 
into the Danish language. Assured thenceforth of being fully understood, he 
followed the logical course of ideas, and warming by degrees, collected the facts 
into groups, and these groups into a whole still more comprehensive. The ani- 
mation of the lecture, in giving more freedom to his delivery, called forth his 
favorite thoughts on the unity, the beauty of nature, and figures and images pre- 
sented themselves which keenly interested his auditors, especially the younger 
portion of them, for those who had already followed other lectures were more sur- 
prised at still finding something unusual in his. 

It was sometimes objected to Oersted that he saw or imagined in nature com- 
binations much more I'ational than those which can be expected to occur in an 
assemblage of material objects ; but he replied that nothing is too rational to be 
attributed to the supreme reason which has created everj-thing. On such a theme 
it would be easy to argue a long time without coming to an understanding. It 
would be to plunge into the depths of those German discussions in which so 



MEMOIR OF OERSTED. 171 

many a subtle genius has exhausted itself without exhausting the subject. But 
the (il)scurity of these depths is sometimes quite d la mode ou the shores, always 
a little foggy, of the Baltic sea. 

It seems certain, however, that the lectures of Oersted were well received l>y 
the youth and the public of Copenhagen, for they were always much freciuented, 
and they secured for the professor an eminent position among his fellow-citizens. 
He was not long in establishing agreeable relations with pei'sons of the highest 
position in the capital of Denmark, and even with the princes of the royal family. 

But apart of his success miglit also be attributed to his lively and intellectual 
conversation, to the frequent articles which he put forth on various subjects, and 
to the works which he pul)lished at this epocli, such as his Considerations on the 
history of chemistn/, his Experiments respecting the figures 2^fodaced Inj nodal 
lines on vibrating surfaces, a subject to which Chladni had already devoted an 
important work ; and a Discourse on the ptleasiirc irroduced hi/ sound, a discourse 
in which he developed, under a point of view peculiar to himself, the laics of 
the beautiful. 

He thus continued to publish, as he had done from his youth, a multitude of 
memoirs and articles of more or less extent on different subjects relating to the 
natural sciences and to philosophy, all of which met with appreciative readers. 
Nevertheless, Copenhagen was not a center to which everj'thing converged as 
is Paris or London. In a city of secondary importance one may keep himself 
informed of what is written, but the inconvenience is soon felt of not knowing 
what is talked about in the learned world. Oersted, who had need of direct 
communication with entire Europe, felt himself impelled to undertake new expe- 
ditions. He set out for Berlin May 7, 1812, where he passed three months and 
gave to the press, in the German language, one of his most important works, 
entitled " Views of the chemical laws of nature," {Ansichten (ler chemisclicn 
Naturgesetze.) In passing through Germany he visited Oken, Schweiger, and 
Hegel, and established friendly relations with the ingenious ph^ysicist Seebeck, 
who, some years afterwards, made the discovery of thermo-electricity. He then 
revisited Paris, where he made quite a long stay, and, about the middle of the 
3'ear 1813, returned to Copenhagen, there to receive anew from his countrymen 
tokens of the cordial consideration which he had long before inspired. 

In 1814 Oersted published, in the progranmre of the university, an essay on 
a chemical nomenclature common to all the Germano-Scandinavian languagcB, 
The names proposed were so happil}' appropriate to the genius of those tongues 
that they were generally adopted, and are still in use in all the countri<^s of tne 
north. In 1815 the lioyal Society of Sciences of Copenhagen, having lost its 
excellent secretary, Bugge, Oersted was chosen to replace him, and, the same 
year, the King named him a chevalier of the order of Danebrog. Two years 
afterwards the university conferred on him the title of professor in ordiiuirv, 
{professor ordinariu's,) a title superior to that of professor extraordinary wmch 
he had borne for more tlian 10 years. 

About this time Oersted undertook a remarkable series of experiments on the 
compressibilit}^ of water, and found almost exactly, though by new means of his 
own invention, the numbers which the celebrated English physicist CantoM had 
obtained half a century Ix.'fore. 

In ISIS and 1819 he undertook, with MM. Esmarch and Forschhanimer, 
explorations in the island of Bornholm, for th(^ purpose of examining itsgeomgical 
constitution with reference to the working of the coal and iron ore wlucii are 
found there, and he made these investigations the subject of several publica- 
tions. This was the commencement of a geological study of Denmark, estab- 
lished on new scientific bases. Oersted, however, was ini;ible to prosecute this 
operation, which, continued by M. Eorschhannner, has given to Denmark the 
excellent geological chart well known to this Academy. 

The joitrneys to Bornholm did not inteiTupt the habitual course of Oersted's 



172 MEMOIR OF OERSTED. 

publications on science and philosophy. Among his memoirs on physics should 
be particularly cited one on the trough-battery, executed in conjunction with his 
friend, Professor Esmarch. Another work, entitled Principles of the New Chem- 
istry, which appeared at Copenhagen in 1820, had been composed for the auditors 
of his course, with a view to placing within their reach the doctrines taught in 
his numerous writings on chemistry and electricity, and particularly in his Views 
of the chemical laws of nature. First printed at Berlin, as I have said, this 
exposition of his favorite ideas had been translated into French by M. Marcel 
de Serres, and published at Paris, in 1813, with the concurrence of its author 
and that of our distinguished colleague, M. Chevreul, under the title of Researches 
on the identity of chemical and electric forces, a title which clearly defined its 
object. 

This learned and ingenious work, dedicated to the author of the Statique 
Chimique, our illustrious Berthollet, was in truth the principal fruit of the labors 
and meditations of Oersted from his earliest youth. A citation of some passages 
of this admirable book will suffice to give an idea of the profound and original 
views which had presided over its composition : ^'* * * * The chemical 
part of the natural sciences," says Oersted, "is far from having attained the 
perfection which their mechanical part has reached, and cannot, like the latter' 
deduce from a small number of principles, alreadj^ connected with one another, 
all the other principles ; but it has been obliged to seek each particular propo- 
sition, each particular law, by means of experiments undertaken solely with that 
particular view. Now the greater part of these laws have hitherto so little 
enabled us to see the bonds which unite them, that it was necessary to be con- 
vinced, by general considerations, of the unity which exists in all the works of 
nature, in order not to be deceived as regards that unity. 

" The actual state, in 1813, of the chemical part of the natural sciences might 
be compared to that of their mechanical part before Galileo, Descartes, Huyghens, 
and Newton had taught us to reduce the more compound movements to their 
most simple principles. Before these illustrious physicists, it is true, a great num- 
ber of important facts were known, even some remarkable series of facts, but 
that great principle of unity to which science owes its present high degree of 
perfection had not yet been arrived at. * * * * " 

Oersted saw this great principle of unity in the uniformity of the general laws 
of mechanics, and he found an example of the duality, which also he every- 
where sought, in the two forces which concur in producing circular or curvilinear 
motion. To find examples of the confusion which had preceded the discovery 
of these forces, it is sutiicient, he said, " to read what w^as written on the classifi- 
cation of motions by the celebrated Bacon, who, although a cotemporary of 
Galileo, still speaks of a violent and natural motion, and of so many other kinds 
of motions, which he knew no better how to reduce to a single principle than do 
the chemists at the present time know how to reduce the affinities of the alkalies, 
acids, earths, oxides, combustible bodies, and oxygen to one identical primitive 
action. * * * * 

"By referring all motions to their fundamental laws, the mechanical part of 
the natural sciences," adds Oersted, " has been raised to that present degree of per- 
fection which embraces all the movements of the universe as one great mechanical 
problem, whose solution enables us to calculate in advance an infinitude of par- 
ticular phenomena. In order to prepare the chemical part of the natural sciences 
for a like perfection, we must endeavor to reduce all chemical actions to the 
primitive forces which produce them ; we shall then also be in a position to 
calculate all the chemical properties of the primitive forces and their laws. Thus, 
chemistry being only occupied with these properties, this whole science will bo 
converted into a theory of forces, to which mathematics maj'^ be applied, and it 
will thereby acquire perhaps new capacities, like those which have been derived 
from the application of mathematics to movement. 



MEMOIR OF OERSTED. 173 

" The discoveries wliicli have been made since tlie commencement of tliis 
century may so far contribute to advance chemistry towards this state of perfec- 
tion that I have thoui^ht it would be useful" (it is still Oersted who speaks) "to 
collect here the scattered materials, in order to attempt the formation of a system. 
A iirst attempt of this kind can, doubtless, be but imperfect ; but it must at last 
be necessary to take this first step, and I have judged it proper not to defer 
taking it, * * * * for the investigator of nature will make no great dis- 
covery except in so far as he shall have a certain idea which leads him to pro- 
pound, so to say, his questions to nature, as well as a determinate scope for his 
observations. The object, therefore, of the system which we here present is 
chiefly to draw attention to certain important problems, and to sei've as prelimi- 
nary to other more perfect systems which the rapid progress of science will not 
fail soon to call forth. It is only by the united etforts of a great number of 
savants, and after some generations, that chemical science can attain that degree 
of perfection which, with perhaps too much boldness, we have ventured to antici- ' 
pate. 

" It wnll not be useless, at our first step in this undertaking, to cast a glance 
over the space which A\t5 shall have to traverse. We shall commence our 
researches by a general classification of all the inorganic bodies according to 
their chemical nature. We shall then present some considerations on the chem- 
ical actions best known, in order to prove that all the chemical phenomena which 
have been studied up to this time may be attributed to two forces difi'used through 
all nature. We shall show that these forces act not only in the immediate con- 
tact between two bodies, but that they can also be transmitted, by some medium, 
from one to the other. This will lead us to discover, independently of electrical 
considerations, the chemical action which we have recognized in galvanism. By 
means of these successive approaches we shall be able finally to present the 
cheuiical forces in the state in which they are most free, and to render evident, 
at the same time, the identity of those forces with electrical forces."* 

I should have abridged this long passage still more than I have done, had I 
not desired that it should be comprehended to what extent, according to Oersted, 
is to be found in the general imiformity of the laws of chemical com})osition that 
great principle of unity which, agreeably to his philosophical conceptions, exists 
in all nature, and, at the same time, the duality which he also sought there in 
the two electricities, positive and negative. '' Finally," Oersted continues, '■'■ we 
shall endeavor, in order still better to prove the universalit}' of the two chemical 
or electrical forces, to show that they also produce the magnetic phenomena and 
the principal changes in organic nature." t These lines already contained, so to 
say, the programme of the great discovery which he was on the point of making. 

In this work, as in his earlier essays of 1799, Oersted })laced aluminium in the 
rear of the alkaline earths, \ as less alkaline than all these latter, and indeed 
almost an acid. After aluminium came silicium, more acid than alkaline j while 
glass, he said, might be considered as a salt.§ It will be admitted that from 
thence to the theory of the silicates there was but a step ; this new advance was 
achieved some time afterwards by Hniithsou Tennant ; but, as every one knows, 
it was Berzelius, beyond all others, who developed the theory of the silicates. 

The work of Oersted, which the limits prescribed to this notice do not permit 
me comidetely to analyze, contains a multiplicity of views; all equally marked 
by justness of thought, and more than one of which ofierseven at this day some- 
thing of the ])i(piancy of novelty. 

In another passage, seeking to find among authors already become anti(pie — 
such as Winterl, Ritter, &c. — tlie first rudiments of the ideas Avhich occupied 
him, and which it was the object of his book to develop. Oersted added : *' The 

* See Rtcherchcs sur l'idcntil6 des forces clumiques et ikctriijues, p. 2. 

t Ibid , p. t). t Ibid., p. .07. ^ Ibid., p. fiO. 



174 MEMOIR OF OERSTED. 

advantage wLicli we may attain over these predecessors of onrs will be, for the 
greatest part, due to the profound researches of the celebrated Berthollet, and to 
the grand discoveries of Davy and Berzelius, three illustrious savants on the 
possession of whom our era can never cease to pride itself." 

There was the more merit on the part of Oersted in thus ranking Berzelius 
among the great lights of chemistry, inasmuch as Berzelius, rather younger than 
himself, was his rival in the branch of the science to which he attached the most 
interest ; and it should never be forgotten that if the honor of having completely 
unfolded the electro-chemical system reverts to Berzelius, Oersted had arrived 
before him at a closely analogous result, although one less developed. For the 
rest, Mdiat at the present day is of most import to the memory of Oersted in rela- 
tion to this work, is perhaps the palpable proof found therein of his ceaseless 
preoccupation with the subject of electrical phenomena. He had conferred 
great improvements on the pile ; ho was one among the most practiced experi- 
menters in employing it ; he had formally indicated magnetism as one of the 
phenomena of which it would some day furnish the explanation, and no one was 
better prepared than himself to advance to the practical realization of this new 
conquest 

Yet all the attempts thus far made had remained unfruitful. The expedient 
had been tried of placing the two poles of a battery as highly charged as possi- 
ble in a parallel line with the poles of a strongly magnetized needle ; no effect, 
however, had been produced. Nevertheless, the conviction still prevailed, 
especially with Oersted, that a relation must exist between galvanism and elec- 
tricity. The route to the discovery was unknown, though hazard might open it 
unexpectedly. 

Fortune, it might be said, ceased to be blind at the moment when to Oersted 
was allotted the privilege of first divining that it was not electricity in repose 
accumulated at the two poles of a charged battery, but electricity in movement 
along the conductor by which one of the poles is discharged into the other, 
which would exert an action on the magnetized needle. While thinking of 
this — it was during the animation of a lecture before the assembled pupils — 
Oersted announces to them what he is about to try ; he takes a magnetic needle, 
places it near the electric l)atter3'-, Avaits till the needle has arrived at a state of 
rest ; then seizing the conjunctive wire traversed by the current of the battery, 
he plaees it above the magnetic needle, carefully avoiding' any manner of col- 
lision. The needle — every one plainly sees it — the needle is at once in motion. 
The question is resolved ! Oersted has crowned, by a great discovery, the 
labors of his whole previous life. 

It was on the 21st July, 1820, that Oersted communicated to learned Europe 
the important fact with which his genius had just enriched science. He con- 
signed it to a small tract written in Latin, of only four pages in 4to, which, not- 
withstanding its conciseness, presented with perfect clearness, the restilts of, 
more than fifty experiments, and left scarcely anything to be added on the 
subject. This composition, entitled Experimeiita circa efcdum, etc. — (Experi- 
ments on the effect of the electrical conflict upon the magnetic needle) — was 
addressed the same day by post to all the societies in Europe which occupy 
themselves with the natural sciences. A French translation of it appeared in 
the number of the Annales de chimie ef de physique for August, 1820, from which 
I transcribe a few expressions employed by Oersted on this occasion : 

" The first experiments on the subject I undertake to explain were made in 
the lectin-es which I gave last winter on electricity and magnetism. They 
evinced in general, that the magnetic needle changed its direction through the 
influence of the voltaic apparatus, and that this effect took place when the cir^ 
cuit Avas formed, and not when it was interrupted ; a process which had been 
attempted in vain by celebrated physicists, some years before. But, as my 



MEMOIK OF OERSTED. 175 

experiments liad been made with an apparatus of small energy, tlie effect of 
■\vliicli was not so striking as was called lor by the importance of the fact to be 
established, I invited my friend Esmarch, judicial councillor to his Majesty^ to 
unite with me in repealing them with a more powerfid apparatus. Wo had 
also for associates and witnesses the Chevalier de Vlengel, MM. llauch and 
Eeinai't, professors of natural liistory ; Jacobson, a very skillful })hysician and 
chemist, and Zeise, professor of philosouhy. I made other experiments when 
alone, and if these taught me an^'thing new, I took the precaution of repeating 
them in the presence of these eminent men of science. * * * In order to make 
the experiment, we put in connnunication the opposite poles of the voltaic appa- 
ratus by a metallic wire, which we will call, for brevity, the conducting or con- 
junctive wire ; and we will designate the effect which is manifqsted in this con- 
ductor and around it during the voltaic action by the term electric conflict. 

'' Let us suppose now that the rectilinear part of this wire is horizontal, and 
placed above and parallel to a magnetic needle freely suspended * * * the 
latter will move in such a manner that, under the part of the conjunctive wire 
which is nearest to the negative pole of the apparatus, it will deviate towards 
the west. * * * If the conjunctive wire is arranged horizontally under the 
needle, the effects are of the same nature with those which take place when the 
wire is above the needle ; but they act in an inverse direction — that is to say, the 
pole of the needle, under which is the part of the conjunctive Avire that receives 
the negative electricity of the apparatus, inclines towards the east. * * * 
It a])pcars, from the facts stated, that the electric conflict is not inclosed in 
the conducting wire, but that it has around it quite an extensive sphere of activ- 
ity. We may ct>nclude from the observations that this conflict acts by a vorti- 
cal or whirling movement." 

Such was the theory of Oersted: we shall presently see that he was less 
happy in his theory than in his expei'iment. 

In publishing the memoir of Oersted in the Annates de cliimic et de physique, 
M. Arago added a note in which he said that the results there recorded, " how- 
ever singular they might appear, are accom'panied by too many details to leave 
room for any suspicion of error." He cited, moreover, the experiments of veri- 
fication made in his presence, at Greneva, by M. de la Rive. 

^Tlie explanation proposed by Oersted for the capital fact which he bad just 
discovered, recalled in some respects the vortices of Descartes. This did not 
much savor of the spirit of the present epoch; it met consequently with but 
little acceptance. At the end of barely a few weeks. Ampere had replaced it 
by another, based on a law of attraction. I borrow the recital of this scientific 
event from the S2")irited and learned Eloge of Ampere, read 1>y M. Arago to this 
Academy, 21st August, 1839 : 

" The discovery of Oersted reached Paris by Switzerland. In our weekly 
session of ^londay, 11th Se[)t(!mber, 1820, an academician who had come from 
Geneva" (it was J\I. Arago himself) " repeated before the Academy the experi- 
ments of the learned Dane. Seven days after. Ampere laid before us a fact 
much more general than that of the pliysicist of Copenhagen. In so short an 
interval of time he had divined that two conjunctive wires, that two wires 
traversed by electric currents, would act one pn the other; he had devised 
extremely ingenious arrangements for rendering these wires movable, without 
the necessity of detaching the extremity of each of them from the respective 
poles of their batteries; he had realized, transformed these conceptions into 
instruments susceptible of operating; he had finally submitted his (capital idea 
to a decisive exi)eriment. I know not if the vast field of })hysicsever i)resented 
so admirabh; a discovery, conceived, made and completed with equal ra[)id<ty. 

'^ Of this brilliant discovery of Anqx're the following statem(?nt may suffice: 
two paralhd conjiuictive wires attract each other when electricity traverses them 
in the same direction ; tliey repel one another, if the electric currents move in 



176 MEMOIE OF OERSTED. 

opposite directions." Tlie sequel of Ampere's labors showed " that the recipro- 
cal action of tLe elements of two currents is exerted in conformity witli the line 
which unites their centers ; that it depends on the mutual inclination of those 
elements, and that it varies in intensity in the inverse ratio of the square of the 
distances." Ampere finally succeeded in establishing that a conjunctive wire 
W'ound into a helix with very close spires, is sensitive to the magnetic action of 
the earth. For many weeks there was to be seen in his cabinet " a conjunctive 
wire of platina whose position was determined by the action of the terrestrial 
e-lobe." Ampere, by constructing a galvanic compass, had shown that the forces 
which act in the magnetic needle are electric currents, and by his learned calcu- 
lations on the reciprocal action of those currents he accounted for all the actions 
which the conjunctive wire of the pile exerts, in the experiments of Oersted, on 
the magnetic needle. 

Electro-magnetism had thus become the common glory of Oersted and Ampere, 
and renown, by uniting the names of these two illustrious savants, not unnat- 
urally calls attention to the resemblances or the contrasts which existed between 
them. 

They were throughout nearly cotemporary. Ampere having been born the 22d 
January, 1775, andOersted the 14th August, 1777. Both had entered upon life 
in a very modest condition as regards fortune ; both had had slender means of 
instruction, and had at first informed themselves with little help from masters 
and even little from books. Oersted had composed poetry not destiixite of 
merit ; Ampere, in his youth, wrote French verses replete with delicacy and 
grace, some of which have appeared to M. Arago no unworthy ornaments for 
his eulogy. Oersted always saw in the harmonics of nature a poetry superior 
to all o'ther poetry ; Ampere, in the evening of his life, composed in Latin 
verse a general tablet of the classification of the sciences, in which elegance 
disputes the palm witli precision. 

Oersted, a declared disciple of Kant, applied his ideas to the material world 
as a consummate physicist ; Ampere, an enthusiastic sympathizer with Maine de 
Biran, Royer Collard, and Cousin, exercised his acute and powerful faculties 
and manifested a lively interest in disentangling the most subtle problems of 
metaphysics. Both were skilled in comnmnicating to their learned instructions 
a peculiar attraction, though each in a different kind. Each of them has left, 
among friends, colleagues, pupils, remembrances full of that affectionate admi- 
ration which can never be effliced. 

Oersted made his first scientific essays in the pharmacy of his father ; before 
all else he Avas a chemist. Ampere, at the age of thirteen, borrowed from the 
public library of Lyons the mathematical works of Bernouilli ; he was born a 
geometer, but the Encyclopedia having been his first book, he had, from his 
infancy, embraced all the branches of human knowledge and had even become 
profound in many of them. M. xirago has felt authorized to say of him, in 
speaking of his labors in chemical classification, " that, during one of the last 
revolutions of science, Ampere, the geometer Ampere, pi'oved always in the 
right, even when his opinions were opposed to those of almost all the chemists 
of the world." 

Without Oersted, electro-magnetism might not have existed ; without Ampere, 
it miglit have been confined to an exceedingly curious, but limited experiment. 
The co-operation of Oersted and Ampere made it, in a very little time, a com- 
plete science, a science destined to change the face of the world by the sur- 
prising applications of it wliich have been already realized, and in which it is 
employed entire without distinction as to the origin of its different parts. 

I have often heard it asked who was the true inventor of the electric tele- 
graph. Reference has been made to ingenious physicists, who in the course of 
the last century transmitted to a distance, by means of the electric spark, 
instantaneous signals. As well might the learned, when the brothers Chappe 



MEMOIR OF OERSTED. 177 

Lad, in 179'2, invented tlio aerial telegraph, recall the tact that the Gauls had 
transmitted distant signals by means of wooden beams set in motion. Neither 
the Ganls nor the older physicists had created any regular means of correspond- 
ence. 

Among those whom I have the honor of addressing, several may be able, like 
mvself, to recall the memorable lectures which M. Ampere delivered at the Col- 
lege of France at the commencement of 1S32, in which he had the boldness to 
express his ideas on the relations of the structure of different classes of animals 
in contradiction to Cuvier, who lectured in the adjacent amphitheater; ingenious 
ideas wliich M. Cuvier overwhelmed at each lecture with peremptory facts, 
and which M. Ampere, accommodating himself to those facts, reproduced still 
more ingeniously in his subsequent lecture. In this course, naturally much 
frequented, and which was in substance a course of experimental physics, M. 
Ampere spoke one day of electrical currents, and, after having represented on 
the table four small magnetic needles with metallic wires suitably encompass- 
ing them, he explained how an electric current transmitted at will in such 
or such a manner, by means of these wires, would cause a declination of such or 
such of these needles in definite directions, so as to produce divers combinations, 
to each of which might be attributed the value of one of the letters of the 
alphabet ; how, in fine, by varying at will and with the rapidity of writing the 
mode of propagation of the electric current, words, phrases, discourses might be 
formed by the succession of these conventional letters. 

'M. Ampere particularly cherished this idea and often recun-ed to it in con- 
versing with his friends ; but his fertile imagination did not stop with a single 
process, and sometimes, instead of needles, he proposed the employment of vases 
tilled with water in which should be produced alternately disengagements of 
oxygen and hydrogen by the decomposition of the liquid. On the whole, it is 
impossible to deny that from that time the fundamental idea of a future electric 
telegraph existed among the auditors and friends of M. Ampere. There 
remained nothing more" than to execute it practically. Such execution was 
rendered much more easy by the result of the experiments of M. Ai-ago on the 
momentary magnetization of soft iron by the electric current, and by the 
knowledge of the laws of the remarkable phenomenon of induction, established 
by M. Faraday. 

Every one knows how, from station to station, long metallic threads, placed 
on insulating supports, have been stretched in order to transmit the electric cur- 
rent from point to point. In the first arrangements of apparatus for this pur- 
pose, in that especially which M. Wlieatstone established between Paris and 
Versailles and which was in operation in 1S45, the electric current was produced 
by magnets, for which was afterwards substituted an electric battery, as being 
susceptible of more energetic action. The conducting wires were reduced, for 
each apparatus, to a single one, the mass of the earth sullicing for the return of 
the current. The needles were also reduced to a single one, which stopped in 
any desired positicjn before a dial-plate bearing on its circumference the 25 let- 
ters of the alphab(;t, the 10 numerals, points, &c. To bring the needle to a 
certain radius of the dial and to a definite letter, the dentated wheel on which 
it de})ended was made to traverse a suita])le luimber of notches, by as often 
interrupting and re-establishing the electric current. This idea of suspending 
and restoring the current l)y interruptions variously diversified, was the most 
essential addition which had been made to the fundamental idea of Ampere. 
The interruptions and re-establishments of the current occasion, so to speak, a 
succession of electric waves, comj)arable, in a certain measuj-e, to the sonorous 
waves by means of which our voice is i)ro})agated, but iniinitely more rapid. 

Since these first essays, the mechanism emi)loyed has l)een singularly varied, 
"^i'lie dials and needles have been suppressed and re])laced by other combinations. 
A multitude of ingeni(jus instruments, cut-offs, iJole-tluuHjcrs, manipulators, 
12 s 



178 MEMOIR OF OERSTED. 

electro-magnets^ magnets variously armed, have been devised by a tlirong of men 
of talent. This pursuit, still so new, is one of those in which the inventive 
spirit of our age has most favorably displayed itself; but, whatever the process, 
it always substantially consists in operating, at a distance and even beyond the 
seas, with the electro-magnetic currents of Oersted and Ampere. 

[This statement can scarcely be considered as correct, even in view of the 
rhetorical license of the eulogist. The currents used in telegraphing are, strictly 
speaking, neither the discoveries of Oersted nor of Ampere, but of Volta and of 
Faraday. There are three different forms of the telegraph : first, that of pure 
electi'icitv which transmits messages by a galvanic current, and makes signals 
by sparks or by marks on chemical paper. Second, that of the needle moved 
by a galvanic current, first suggested by Ampere. Third, that of an electro- 
magnet which produces sounds, and also marks on paper at a distance. The first 
of these depends essentially on the discovery of Volta, and the other two on the 
primary fact of Oersted, extended, applied, and modified by others. — J. H.] 

In a very interesting account of Oersted, from which I have borrowed many 
of the details here cited, professor Hauch, of Copenhagen, compares, with no 
unjustifiable enthusiasm, his master Oersted discovering, after long meditation, 
the action of the pile on the magnetic needle and thus opening for science hor- 
izons altogether new, to Christopher Columbus discovering America, after having 
dreamed all his life of the existence of a great continent beyond the ocean.* 
He might have adxled that Oersted, more fortunate than Columbus, encountered 
no Ameiicus Vespucius to dispute with him the glory of his discovery. Ampere, 
the most modest of men, had need of no glory but his own, if, indeed, ho ever 
occupied himself with that ; and moreover, in electro-magnetic science, the parts 
of Oersted and of Ampere have remained perfectly distinct. If the fundamental 
experiment is the incontestable property of Oersted, the developments immedi- 
ately added by Ampere were the fruit of a spirit of invention which yields not 
in merit to the most original experiment, and of an analytical science which 
could only be met with in a geometer like Ampere, and, it may be added, in 
those colleagues of ours who bore a part in his calculations, M. Savary, M. 
Liouville, and our actual president M. Duhamel. 

It pertained to the members of this Academy, the colleagues of Ampere, to be 
first in proclaiming all the merit of Oersted. The occasion was embraced with 
the ardor which, in such circumstances, is always native to it. We read accord- 
ingly, in the statement regarding the prizes awarded, Sth April, 1822, as follows : 

* The first idea of this comparison reverts to Sir John Herschel, as may be seen by the 
following letter of M. de Humboldt to Oersted, a translation of which has been obligingly 
communicated to me by M. de la Roquette, former consul of France in Denmark : 

"Assuredly, M. Councillor, it wiil be a pleasure to the King to see you again and to 
express to you how much his Majesty is personally flattered at receiving among us a man of 
your celebrity. You are invited for to-morrow noon to the King's table, and in the evening 
at the new palace to the first representation of Medea in the Court Theater. ^^ * * * * 
I have just read to-night in Herschel's Study of Natural Philosophy, p. 340, this fine passage 
concerning yon : " /« Oersted there is something which reminds us of the obstinate adherence 
of Columbus to Ids notions of the 7iecessary existence of the new world, and the sole history of 
Oersted's beautiful discovery may serve to teach ms * * * * ." This is a just eulogy 
expressed in very ingenious terms. With the highest consideration, your obedient, 

"A. DE Humboldt." 

A second letter of M. Humboldt to Oersted, also communicated to me by M. de la 
Roquette, will further contribute to show with what regard and cordiality Oersted was 
received at Berlin : 

" May I count, dear doctor, on the pleasure of seeing you again before your departure ? 
I desire not only to rgad once more your instructive memoir on the repose of the volcanoes 
of Nicaragua, but also to have some doubts respecting Squier resolved. The King being 
to arrive to-day, I shall be occupied until Friday. On that day or the following, may I 
flatter myself with the hope of seeing you at Berlin? ***** With distinguished 
consideration, &c. A. DE HuMBOLDT." 



MEMOIR OF OERSTED. 179 

'' Tlie Academy announced in its public session of the 27th March, 1820, that in 
that of March, 1822 it would award the prize of mathematics, consisting- of a g-old 
medal of the value of 3,000 francs, to the best work or memoir on pure or 
applied mathematics, wliich shall have aupeared or been communicated to the 
Academy during the space of two years which are accorded to competitors. 

** j\Iauy physico-mathematical researches, worthy of high praise, have appeared 
in that interval. * * * r3ut the importance of the discovery of the action 
of the voltaic pile on the magnetic needle, a discovery which furnishes a new 
jirinciple to applied mathemalies,-and which has already given rise to interesting 
applications of analysis, has determined the commission to award to it the ])rize 
of mathematics. The commission charged with the examination of articles for 
the prizes of mathematics is in the habit of adjudging those prizes without the 
co-operation of the Academy. But as the discovery in question is not explicitly 
cDmprised in the programme, it has been thought that the authorization of the 
societ}^ should be invoked for awarding the prize to this admirable discovery. 
This projiosal having been submitted to the deliberations of the Academy, was 
unhesitatingly adopted." 

A place having soon afterwards become vacant among the correspondents of 
the Academy for tlu^ section of physics, the nt)mination of M. Oersted to supply 
it took place 9th June, 1823. In the sequel, the highest scientiHc distinction at 
the disposal of the Academ\' was conferred on him, 11th April, 1842, by his elec- 
tion as one of its eight foreign associates, to replace the distinguished botanist 
de Candolle. 

The just eclat which had attended the discovery of Oersted, by no means 
diminished his desire of sometimes placing himself in personal communication 
with the savants of other comitries. In 1822 he again went to Germany, 
where, independently of those who more peculiarly ranked as savants, Goethe, 
the illustrious poet, to whom nothing in the domain of intellect w-as alien, 
received him with distinction ; as is testified by the manner in which Oersted's 
discovery is spoken of in several passages of his writings. 

Oersted was now, for some time, engaged in thermo-electric experiments with 
Seebeck, and afterwards came to Paris in 1823. The Academy shared the 
])leasure which he experienced on taking his place in its ranks, and, during his 
sojotu-n, was entertained by several series of experiments which he performed 
in its presence, not the least curious of which were those executed in common 
l)y himself and Fourier.* In these, bars of bismuth and of antimony soldered 
together alternately and forming a closed circuit, were employed. By heating 
or cooling the solderings, electrical currents w'ere produced which appeared miire 
abundant Init less intense than the currents developed by weak hydro-electric 
action, and gave occasion to many interesting observations. 

Towards the middle of summer Oersted passed into England and Scotland, 
and was received, as he had been in France, with a cordiality and attention 
which testified the high estimation in which the author of tlie discovery of 
electro-magnetism was equally held in those countries. On his return to Copen- 
hagen, he resumed his life of labor with more ardor than ever. The north of 
Eiuope then exhibited the spectacle of a brilliant scientific arena. At Stock- 
In >lni, Berzelius, one of the princes of chemistry, at Copenhagen, Oersted, one 
of the princes of physics, formed, as it were, two centers of labor and discovery, 
around which gravitated, like so many brilliant satellites, men destined them- 
selves to a just and well-earned celel)rity — Arfvedson, Nordenskiold, Bonsdorff, 
Mitscherlich, Gustave and Henry Hose, &;c. 

'J'ho noble emulaticm which estai)lislied itself between the laboratories of the 
two capitals is easih' conceived. Oersted reapplied hiins(df to chemistry. 
IJesuming at the end of a quarter of a century his investigations of 1799 on 
alumina,, he accomplished, in 1824, a work which placed him in the rank of the 

* See Annates de chim. et de physique, t. xxxii, p. 375, (April, 1823.) 



180 MEMOIR OF OERSTED. 

most eminent practical chemists, and obtained, after prolonged efforts, tlie clilo- 
ride of aluminum. No one before him had effected the decomposition of alu- 
mina. Yet he did not succeed in insulating the aluminum ; this last and import- 
ant step was reserved for M. Vohler, the distinguished chemist of Gottingen, 
Still later, our young and learned colleague, M. Henri Sainte-Claire Deville, 
has formed of aluminum a new and valuable element of metallurgic industry. 

One of the last labors of Oersted relates to the celebrated diamagnetic dis- 
coveries of our illustrious colleague M. Faraday, whose experiments had already 
added so many curious facts to electro-magnetism, as well as to the researches 
made on the same subject by some German savants, especially by M. Reich, of 
Friburg. 

Oersted presented his first results to the Royal Society of Sciences of Copen- 
hagen, 30th June, 1848, and gave a review of them- in the Compie Bendu of the 
transactions of the society. He soon afterwards drew up a more complete 
memoir, which has been published in French.* Therein he recognizes a decreas- 
ing magnetic progression which includes the magnetic bodies properly so-called, 
the attractable diamagnetic bodies, the repellable diamagnetic bodies. The 
magnetism of these last may, according to him, be considered as negative, if we 
regard the magnetism of iron and of the attractable diamagnetic bodies as posi- 
tive. Oersted showed herein that, experiment in hand, he always kept himself 
abreast of the progress of physics, and particularly of electro-magnetism. 

In effect, the weight of years never relaxed the activity of Oersted. Were I 
to undertake a bare enumeration of the researches and writings of every kind 
which he executed at Copenhagen during the last twenty-five years of his life, 
I should much exceed the time at my disposal. But, while omitting this long 
catalogue, in which are numbered nevertheless important memoirs on electricity 
and magnetism, on the compressibility of liquids and of gases, on the heat 
developed by the compression of water, on capillary phenomena, works of liter- 
ature and philosophy, &c.,t I feel bound to point out what contributed in quite 

* See Annales de Chimie. et Physique, 3d series, t. xxiv, p. 424, (December, 1848.) 

t The following note, for which I am indebted to M. de la Roquette, makes us acquainted 
with one of tliese last Works : 

"Oersted published, about 1850, two volumes under the title of Aanden i Naturen, a 
philosophic work which appears to me of high import ; it forms a series of treatises in which 
the author introduces us, in a manner at once philosophic and popular, to the study of 
nature, by revealing: to lis the eternal spirit which determines all its phenomena, and the 
relation under which this spirit exists towards the material and intellectual world. The 
following is the substance of the tracts or chapters of which the work is composed : 

" Vol. I. (1) Of spirit manifested in matter. The author develops what is constant or 
immutable in the continual changes of bodies ; it is the single thought or design which 
exists therein. The unity of this thought pertains to nature, for the natural laws, which are 
constant au3 invariable, are laws of reason; not of the reason which is in us, but of that 
which prevails in the entire universe. It is the assemblage of laws determining the activity 
of an object, which constitutes its real essence. These laws, which may be properly called 
the ideas of nature, form in every object a unity which may be qualified as the essential 
meaning of the object or its idea. This idea does not exist solely in the thought ; it is real- 
ized, on the contrary, in the acting forces of the objects. The being of the object is thus an 
animated or living idea. lu order to place these interesting reflections within the reach of 
all, the author has recourse to the form of dialogue, like Plato, Fonteuella and Fenelou; his 
style is at once simple and clear, rich and varied. (2) The fountain and the jet d'eau. 
He here characterizes the different impiessions produced by this phenomenon. (3) The 
relation between the conception of nature by thought and that which is efl'ected by help of 
the imagination. (4) Superstition and incredulity in their relations to the natural sciences. 
(5) All existence considered as the empire of spirit. (6) The culture of the sciences rep- 
resented as a worship offered to God. 

" Vol. II. (1) The relation of the natural sciences to poetry. (2) The relation of these 
sciences to different important notions of religion. (3) Of" the salutary influence which the 
study and employment of the natural sciences must exert on the intellectual development of 
man. (4) Two discourses on occasion of the reunion of the Scandinavian naturalists. (5) 
On the passage from the school to active life. (6) Comparison of ancient and modern 
times ; the author here demonstrates that neither the world uor humanity have deteriorated ; 
that the temperature of the air has not changed ; (the physical state of Greenland was, six 



MEMOIR OF OERSTED. 181 

a special manner to tlie lionnr of Oersterl, hy observing' that, in liim, the favors 
of fortune never weakened his devotion to the duties of the savant, and that after 
having made a discoverv whoso brilliancy rendered it difficult further to aug- 
ment his reputation, he believed that he still owed to science and his country 
the constant tribute of assiduous labor. 

It was one of the hapi)y events of Oersted's life that ho witnessed, in 1829, 
under the reign of Frederic VI, the founding at Copenhagen of a l*oJiftecJmic 
School. Of this he was named director, an honorable title which he retained 
till his death. We will not examine whether this Polytechnic School, in which 
courses Avere appropriated to the arts and trades, entirely resembled our own. 
In such a country as Denmark, less extensive than civilized, it is necessary to 
imitc many branches in order to compose a solid faggot. The object was, in the 
main, analogous, and the very name of the school was a memorial of the first 
journey of Oersted to Paris, as well as an homage rendered to the celebrated 
school of jMonge and Fourcroy. In the Danish institution. Oersted continued to 
profess physics till his last year, with unremitting zeal, animation and success. 
As director, he treated the pupils with a mixture of kindness, sagacity and 
firmness which secured their imreserved devotion and willing obedience. 

During his third journey, Oersted found himself crossing the channel from 
France to England, on his forty-sixth birthday, 14th August 1823 ; it is an anni- 
versary which the people of the north style tJie daij of one^sfete. Accuston)ed 
in Denmark to pass it in the bosom of his family and friends, he was now left to 
his solitary thoughts; and these naturally reverting to his country, inspired him 
with the design of founding something on his return which should be at once a 
profitable and pleasant memorial of the vows which on this occasion he addressed 
to his distant hf)me. The plan of a society for the promotion of the study of 
nature formed itself in his mind, and was so thoroughly wrought out during the 
short navigation, that nothing" was required on landing at Dover but to reduce 
it to writing. The plan met with cordial acceptance in Denmark, and by aid of 
the new association, courses of natural history were established not only at 
Copenhagen, but in other cities of the country ; nor has this institution since 
ceased to bear the useful fruits which Oersted had anticipated. 

He was also member of a literary societ3^ In connection with this a monthly 
publication was edited, in wdiich he often inserted articles on the most varied 
subjects, not excepting religious and philosophical ones. He belonged, more- 
over, to an association established for the right use of the liberty of the press. 
In fact, his co-operation seems to have been claimed almost universally at 
Copenhagen, nor was a sense of its value w'ithout frequent manifestations in other 
cities of Denmark, and even in those of the neighboring countries. To the last, 
he was accustomed to make numerous excursions as well into the north of Ger-. 
many as into the Scandinavian peninsula, in attendance on the assemblages of 
natm\alists which were held at difierent places. It was a cherished idea of his 
that, through these assemblages, not only might the exchange of scientific views 
be facilitated and a more intimate union among the representatives of science bo 
cemented, but that their benefits might bo extended to a wider circle by exposi- 
tions placed within the reach of all and contributing to introduce, even among 
the po[)ular masses, the liabit of conij)reheuding and mutually exchanging their 
idioms and forms of literature; especially was it his hope that the three Scan- 

hnuiJred years ajjo, the saino that it is to-<l;iy;) the olive had in France, cif^htoen huudrcd 
years aj^^o, the same limit in tiie nortli wliifli it lias at jiresent; the men of aiiti([uity were 
not stronger and attained not a more advanced ago than thosi; of modtirn times ; the buinau 
race, far from retrograding, has made sensible progress in regard to morals. (7) The rela- 
tion of the natn?al sciences to different ages and to their philosophy; » ' * Christianity 
and mental cultivation as lending each other mutual support." 

The interest which this work excited in Germany led to its translation under the title 
of Dcr Geist in dcr Natur, (The Soul in Nature). [It was also translated into English.] 



1S2 MEMOIR OF OERSTED. 

dinavian nations miglit tlins become, as it were, tln-ee branches drawing in com- 
mon their intellectual nourishment from the same radical stock. 

It was never the misfortune of Oersted to witness any diminution of reputa- 
tion. In 184G, in the sixty-ninth year of his age, he again traveled into Ger- 
many, France and England. In an interesting notice of Oersted read 7th Novem- 
ber, 1851, before the Royal Society of Sciences of Copenhagen, M. Forchham- 
mer, who had accompanied him, tells us that this journey resembled an ovation. 
In England, especially. Oersted was received by the most eminent politicians 
and men of science with a distinction which lias rarely been the portion of a 
stranger, and, above all, of a simple savant. His purpose was to take part in 
the meeting at Southampton of the British Association for the Advancement of 
Science. In one of the sessions of that body. Sir John Herschel, made an 
address to him, remarkable for the signal and intelligent justice which it ren- 
dered to his scientific labors. 

Honored in his public, Oersted was happj'- in his private life. His 3'^ounger 
brother, whom he had taught to read under the roof of the wig-maker of Rud- 
kjol»ing, ever continued to be his faithful and intimate companion. The latter 
had himself acquired great celebrity by his labors in philosophy and jurispru- 
dence, and liad filled the position of president of the Royal Society of Copen- 
hagen. Only with the death of the elder Ijrother terminated the auspicious 
habit, contracted in childhood, of daily esclmnging tlieir impressions and ideas. 
In 1814, Oersted had espoused Mademoiselle Brigitte Ballum, daughter of a 
Lutheran minister of Kjedby, in the isle of Moen, and found in her an accom- 
plished companion, whose character, admirabh^ adapted to his own, formed their 
mutual happiness. Of five daughters and three sons born of this union, only 
three of the former and two of the latter survived Oersted, to be the consolation 
of their m(jther. One of his daughters is married to M. Sharling, professor of 
chemistry in the University of Copenhagen, long know'u for important researches 
on respiration.* 

Around Oersted, however, there existed a still more extensive family. It \\'as 
composed, we might say, of the whole city of Copenhagen, where he was as 
much loved as esteemed, as much esteemed as admired. Of this his fellow- 
citizens gave him a touching proof in the latter days of his life. The day (7th 
November, 1850) which marked the fiftieth anniversary of his entrance upon 
public duties, and Avas what is called in the north his jubilee, was celebrated by 
a gen(!ral festival in Denmark, with the somewhat quaint forms of Teutonic 
good-fellowship, but accompanied by a substantial testimonial of gratitude to 
the man who was regarded as the honor of the whole nation. It had been 
determined by the friends, the pupils, and indeed tlie simple admirers of the phi- 
losopher, to make this the occasion of securing to him for the remainder of his 
life the possession of Fasanenhof, (Pheasant-court,) a delightful summer resi- 
dence in the garden of Fredericksburg. Tlj.e choice of the dwelling was so 
much the more delicate and so much the more pleasing to Oersted from its hav- 
ing been previously the habitation of Ochlenschlager, the friend of his youth. 

Oersted was conducted tiiither on the day of his jubilee. At the same time 
the King raised him to the rank of councillor of priv-ate conferences, a title 
never before conferred on a professor of the university, and much higher than 
that of councillor of ordinary conferences, which Oersted had borne for ten 
years. His bust, executed by a celebrated statuary, was set up at Fasanenberg 
in presence of an immense crowd, in which \vere intermingled the most illustrious 
personages of the kingdom. The rector of the university formally presented 

* His treatise ou respiration was published iu 1843, some mouths before the researches of 
MM. Andral aud Gavarret on the same subject. {See Comptes Ncndus of the Academy of 
Sciences, t. xvii, p. 1205.) M. Alexandre Oersted, sou of the celebrated jurist M. Andre 
Sandoe Oersted, and nephew of the renowned physicist, is at present professor of botany in 
tho University of Copenhagen. 



MEMOIR OF OEKSTED. 183 

liim witli the gold ring of a doctor, on wliich was engraved a head of Minerva 
encircled with diamonds. The Seigniory of the association of students notified 
him that he had been elected an honorary member of that society, and a depu- 
tation of the Guild of arts and trades tendered him thanks for what he had done 
in bcdialf of the industry of the country. 

To all the discourses addressed to him Oersted replied with a force, a com- 
posure and a choice of expressions which surprised the assistants. The choir of 
the students commenced and terminated the fete \vith a chant, the words of 
which had been corajxised by one of the best poets of Denmark. In the even- 
ing a procession with torches and a new chant by the students greeted the object 
of this enthusiastic commemoration. 

The day on which classes so numerous and so diversified had vied with each 
other in testifying for him their aiiection and admiration must have been to 
Oersted one of the sweetest of his life. He had received from his sovereign and 
his fellow-citizens the most exalted testimonials of esteem with which any Dan- 
ish savant had been ever honored, and, in spite of his modesty, his conscience 
could not have failed to insinuate to him that he was not unworthy of them. 
The hope of passing his last years, surrounded by his family and dedicated to a 
tranquil scientific activity, in the smiling retreat which his countrymen had 
thought proper to ofler him, was calculated to blend the satisfaction of the heart 
with the consecration of his renown. Yet this pleasing hope was but a decep- 
tive gleam, and although his mind, still vigorous, and his frame replete with life, 
seemed yet to promise length of days, it was not granted to Oersted so much as 
to take possession of his new domicil, for before the return of spring ho had 
ceased to live. 

He died at Copenhagen, 9th March, 1851, at the age of seventy-three years and 
seven months, removed unexpectedly and in but a few days, by a simple 
catarrh contracted l)y studying of a morning in too cold an apartment. His 
death was a profound and general grief for the city of Copenhagen and for all 
Denmark.* In that grief, this Academy, in common with the whole scientific 
world, bore no indiflerent or simulated part. 

Oersted was replaced in the list of our eight foreign associates by the cele- 
brated chemist of Berlin, M. Mitscherlich, to whom crystallography is indebted 
for the most important progress it has made since Haiiy. M. Mitscherlich had, 
in his youth, associated himself with the labors of the Scandinavian scientific 
school ; and this choice, justified by other reasons, might be regarded as a new 
and last homage rendered to the memory of Oersted as well as to that of Ber- 
zelius. 

No scientific body had been backward in crowning with its suffrage the great 
discovery of Oersted. To make an enumeration -of more than fifty societies 
which inscribed his name among those of their correspondents or their foreign 
associates, would l»c little less than to draw up a complete? list of the i)rincipal 
Academies of the two hemispheres. More than one sovereign had been emulous 
of associating himself with the movement of public opinion in his behalf. He 
was advanced to the class of grand-cross of the Danish order of Danel)rog, 
grand-cross of the Swedish order of the Polar Star, member of the order of 
Merit of Prussia, and officer of the Legion of Honor. 

Oersted was not only eminent as a physicist, profound as a thinker, ho was 
a man of rare excellence of character. Author of one of the capital discoveries of 
the centuiy, promoter of one of the schools which confer most honor on his country, 
founder of many important scientific and literary institutions, dear to the youth 
and to the public of Copenhagen, whom he had charmed dtu-ing 50 years l)y a 
system of poetic and philosophic ideas in harmony with their natural instincts, 

* Two'lmudred thousand persons, preceded*by tfie princes of the royal family, followed 
the body of Oersted to its resting phico. 



184 MEMOIR OF OERSTED. 

Lo hacT never failed to avail himself of the credit wliicli his high position in 
science had given him with an enlightened government, and even of the friend- 
ship of a well-informed King*, to render innumerable services to studious youth, 
to savants less fortunate than himself, to a multitude of persons whom he recog- 
nized as worthy of his countenance. Had his characteristic modesty not equaled 
his other merits, he also might have adopted the boast ascribed by a poet to his 
hero : 

Some little good I've done — it is my noblest work. 

* Prince Christian of Denmark, who reigned afterward under the title of Christian VIII, 
was an eminent mineralogist and deeply versed in many parts of the sciences. 



f 



KOTICE OF CHRISTIAN FREDERIC SCH0EOT5EIN, THE DISCOVERER OF 

OZONE. 



Translated for tlic Smithsonian Institution, from the " Aixhives des Sciences Physiques et 

naturelles," Geneva 



Tlio death of C. F. Schoenbein has sent a pang of regret not only through 
Switzerland but through the scientific world. We cannot better fulfil the painful 
duty of reviewing the life of this eminent man than by borrowing the following 
pages from a notice published in the Basle Naclirichten, for which we are probably 
indebted to the pen of Professor Hagenbach : 

The mortal remains of Christian Frederic Schoenbein have been carried to 
their last resting place. He has been so suddenly arrested in a life full of activity, 
so abruptly called away, that we can hardly realize he has ceased to be among 
us. These pages which we now consecrate to his memory can only faintly express 
the sentiments awakened in us by the loss of one so much beloved and so much 
mounied. The complete appreciation of his scientific career cannot be given in 
a few rapid sketches. 

Schoenbein was born the ISth of October, 1799, at Metzingen, Suabia. From 
his parents he received a limited, though religious, education. He left the paternal 
roof at the early age of 14, in order to enter an establishment for the manufactory 
of chemicals ; but a mere practical career could not satisfy his aspirations; the 
occupation only awakened in his youthful mind an ardent desire for the more 
elevated science of chemistr}^ He commenced the study of Latin, and went to 
the universities of Tubingen and Erlangen. After he had finished his studies at 
the universities, he taught chemistry and physics in a school at Keihan, neai 
Rudolstadt. Afterw^ards, he pursued his scientific education in England and in 
France, and at length, in 1828, went to Basle, where he was installed as lecturei 
on physics and chemistry. This office was formerly intrusted to Counselloj 
Merian, who still continues his active career among us. An attack of illnesa 
obliged him to discontinue this course of instruction, by which he had rekindled, 
the love of those sciences which of old were so brilliantly represented at Baslo 
by such men as James and Daniel Bernoulli. 

In 1835 Schoenl>ein was elected full professor of physics and chemistry in the 
University of Basle, and discharged the duties of this position w'ithout inteiTuption 
until 1852, when theprofessorsliip was divided into two distinct chairs, he retaining 
that of chemistry and continuing in it until the time of his death. Thus, Schoen- 
bein has been connected with our university nearly 40 years, and has never, except 
temporarily, during that period quitted Basle; his two longest joui'nej'S, the one 
to England the other to Germany, are well known from the accounts of them 
which he has published, and to which the mingling of serious and humorous 
observations with scientific reflections and sketches of personal adventures give 
a peculiar charm. 

Schoenbein was married in the year 1835, but the tranquil happiness which 
he found in domestic life was unfortunately disturbed by the sudden death of 
his eldest daughter in 1859, an event which sadly afflicted his entire household. 
His energies were unreservedly consecrated to science, and he always remained 
faithful to the counsels of his master, the celebrated Schelliug, who taught him 
to regard her as his bride. Thus all his faculties, all his eflbrts were continually 
exerted to draw nearer each day to scientific truth, and to penetrate ever more 
profoundly into the mysteries of the forces which govern the changes of tho 



186 NOTICE OF CHRISTIAN FEEDERIC SCnOENBEIN, 

material viniverse. He worked with ardor and an indefatigable perseverance, 
and all the time he could command was employed in his experiments; even the 
short wintry days found him at early morn in his laboratory. When astonish- 
ment was expressed that one of his advanced age should be so eager in the pur- 
suit of science, he was wont to say, with a smile, that he knew " there remained 
for him but little time in which to work, and that there was still much flax upon 
his distaftV 

He preserved to the end all the freshness of his faculties as well as the juvenile 
enthusiasm with which from the first he had made known his discoveries to his 
colleagues and to the scientific world. 

Among the works of Schoenbein we may first mention those Avhich relate to 
subjects which are neither entirely physical nor entirely chemical, but which 
rather appertain to both, such as his researches upon the passivity of iron and 
of other metals ; the changes of color of bodies under the influence of temperature ; 
the chemical action of luminous rays, and finally the theory of voltaic electricity. 
In this latter domain he has thrown much light upon the Avell-lvuown controversy 
relative to the theory of contact and chemical action ; in studying with impar- 
tialit}' the two opposite opinions, and in demonstrating wherein they were fault}?" 
He ascribes the origin of voltaic electricity to chemical action, although he showed 
a positive difference between the electricity developed in the open current of the 
battery and that which produces the cuirent and the chemical decomposition 
which are manifested when the current is closed. 

His researches on the voltaic current date from 1836 to 1840 ; since that epoch 
his views relative to the source of the voltaic current have become gradually 
adopted by physicists in general. In 1839, Avhile in England at the meeting of 
the British Association, he made the personal acquaintance of the celebrated 
English lawyer and physicist, Grove, who presented at the session a small voltaic 
battery, of which the cells were constructed of the bowls of tobacco pipes ; this 
was the first exhibition of the celebrated constant battery which bears the name 
of its inventor. As Schoenbein had been engaged on a similar investigation, 
Tve soon see the two phj'sicists pursuing the same object. They planned one of 
these batteries of large size, and thus produced an apparatus which, in proportion 
to its dimensions, exhibited an unusual electro-motive force. This first large 
constant battery is still preserved in the Museum of Physics at Basle, a souvenir of 
Schoenbein and of Hcussler, a friend of science brought up among us, who bore 
the expense of its construction and gave it to our academy. The possession of 
this apparatus gave to Schoenbein a fresh incentive to resume with new energy 
his researches upon the relations of electric and chemical forces. Thanks to this 
battery it became possible to decompose water into its elements in greater quan- 
tities than had ever before been done; it was during an experiment of this kind 
that, in the autumn of 1 839, he perceived a peculiar odor from the oxygen obtained 
by the decomposition of water similar to that produced when a large electrical 
machine is in active operation, or when a discharge of lightning takes place 
between a cloud and the earth. This odor he at first attributed to a new sub- 
stance mixed in small quantities with the oxj-gen, and as this body ought to have 
a special name, after consulting with his colleague, M. W. Kischer, he gave it 
that of ozone. 

His first publication of the discovery of ozone excited but little attention in the 
scientific world. But nowise disheartened by this, he continued his investigations 
with a persistency only to be met with among those who are thoroughly possessed 
with a subject. He pursued during 29 years, or what may be considered the 
active life of a man, the same end, the study of the chemical properties of oxygen ; 
a labor which, though it might appear to lead to no valuable results, is really 
connected with the properties of one of the most important elements of our globe. 

In consequence of his own researches and those of other phj^sicists, Schoenbein 
was soon forced to renounce the idea that ozone was an elemeutaiy substance, and 



THE DISCOVERER OF OZONE. 187 

to recognize in it a peculiar conditiuu of oxygen in which it is endowed with 
special properties. 

We cannot here enumerate the many discoveries connected with this subject, 
and still less retrace the important ste|)s that have been made in the domain of 
chemistry and of physiology in connection with it ; we must limit ourselves to 
the reniark that Schoenbein has contributed much to enlarge the field of science 
in this direction, and as the names of Priestley, Scheele, and Lavoisier are men- 
tioned in connection with the early discoveries relative to oxygen, so the name 
of Schoenbein will always be recalled when we speak of the new form under 
which this element appears, and the varied action, when thus changed, it pro- 
duces upon organic and inorganic bodies. 

Among the discoveries which have rendered Schoenljcin known, even beyond 
the scientific world, we must mention that of gun-cotton. • This substance was 
not doomed merely to administer to the malevolent passions of men, and to play 
adestructivepart in war, as its name Avould seem to indicate; the subsequent dis- 
covery of Schoenbein gave it functions of a mi,)re pacific character ; a solution of 
gun-cotton in ether forms collodion, an admiraLle dressing for wounds, and a pre- 
cious ingredient in the art of photography. The first application of collodion as a 
medicinal agent was made at the instance of Schoenbein by his friend, Dr. 
Jung, of Basle. 

The tardiness that Schoenbein found in the acceptance of his ideas on their 
first presentation was afterwards fully compensated by the approbati(jn they 
received from all parts of the scientific world. The most distinguished philoso- 
phers of Germany, of France, and of England adopted essentially by his views, and 
several learned societies, among others the academies of France and Munich, 
elected him a corresponding member. 

His manner of w^orking deserves to be noticed. However important the results 
at which he anived, the means that he employed for obtaining them were extremely 
simple. There is no doubt that the great progress ma.le in modern times in the 
construction of apparatus and instruments of research has had an important influ- 
ence on the development of science, but the investigations of Schoenbein sliow 
us what can be effected, at least in some lives, without the aid of costly appliances. 

Schoenbein was so much occupied with his special researches that it is not 
Surprising he did not keep entirely i)osted up in the general progress of chemistry. 
Though he by no means confined himself exclusively to the special objects of 
his investigations, yet he could not give to other branches that study whicli was 
necessary to render them fully appreciated. He did not adopt the views and the 
methods of the leading chemists of this dayj he often compared the production 
of the varied combinati<jns of the same elements with the rotation of a kaleidoscope, 
giving constantly new images, doulttless amusing, but not very instructive. He 
also iretpiently compared clu;mical phenomena to a theatrical exhibition, in which 
many regard only the denouement of the last act, while it is often in the develo[)- 
nient of the drama that the most interesting truths are exhibited. In the judg- 
ment which he formed of tlie ideas of other [)liihjsophers, Schoenbein may have 
been at times somewhat prejudiced. The vivacity of his nnnd often presented to 
him in too strong a light the defects in the coucei)tions of others, while the pre- 
occupation of his thoughts with his o\\ n ideas left him no time to reflect upon them 
with calmness and impartiality. 

His peculiarity as a professor will remain as a precious souvenir to many. It 
follows, from what we have said relative to his manner of work, that his specialty 
was not to exhibit the actual state of science and to deduce from it the various 
theories which have been devised. The most remarkable feature of his course 
was the ardor of ' his connection and the clearness with which he discussed his 
favorite subjects ; it was not only instruction in science but also the love of science 
itself that he imparted to his pupils^ and for which many among them will always 
remem])er him with "Tatitude. 



188 NOTICE OF CHEISTIAN FREDERIC SCHOENBEIN, ETC. 

Schoenbein did not limit liis instruction to the course of the university ; he under- 
stood in the best possible manner how to impart his knowledge to others. Above 
all, we should speak of the activity which he imparted to the Society of Natural 
Sciences of Basle, of which, dming 40 years, he was a prominent member ; he con- 
sidered it as a dear friend, to whom he always first confided his most important 
discoveries. The published proceedings of this society give the entire series of 
the results of his scientific labors. The Helvetic Society of Natural Sciences lost 
in him one of its most zealous and valued members ; he almost always animated 
the meetings of the physical section by interesting communications, and this yeai', 
at the session of Einsiedeln, his absence was noticed and deeply regretted ; the 
society, feeling the want of his cheering presence, transmitted to him by tele- 
graph a friendly salutation ; alas, this found him upon a sick bed, soon to become 
his bed of death. All the inhabitants of Basle, interested in sciences, were 
indebted to him for the series of interesting lectures which he addressed to the 
public of that city. In former days he gave complete courses of popular instruc- 
tion, and in later years he did not refuse to share the efforts of younger men in 
the organizations for the same purpose. But his enthusiasm for instructing 
extended beyond the confines of the lecture-room, in society, in the street, even 
at the refreshment saloons he knew how to give a scientific tuni to conversation 
without assuming the pedantic tone of a master. Schbenbein knew how to gain 
the hearts of all by his amiable qualities, and consequently numbered many 
fi'iends. But his general popularity did not prevent him from contracting close 
friendships, to which he remained faithful during life ; he was intimately attached to 
several of his colleagues, of whom some have preceded him to the tomb ; the youngest 
of his associates felt that it was not only benevolence but a true friendship which 
attached him to them. Among the foreign philosopliers with whom he was on 
terms the most intimate, and with whom he regularly coiTCsponded, we may 
mention Faraday, Grove, Liebig, Wohler, Eisenlohr, Pettenhofer, Sainte Claire 
Deville, and Sebetellen de Metz, author of a well-known work on ozone. 

The meetings of the Helvetic Society furnished him the opportunit}' of inter- 
course with the savants of Switzerland. He was particularly associated with 
M. M. Escher, Studer de la Rive, Pictet, Heir, Desor, Lang, and many younger 
philosophers who also shared his friendship. 

If we would sum up in a single sentence the character of Schoenbein, we should 
say that at all points of view he represented an individual of peculiar develop- 
ment; he was an original in the best sense of the term, and such men ought to be 
more appreciated, as they become ever more rare in our age of universal medi- 
ocrity. Schoenbein was a complete man, for although an absorbing idea, the 
love of science, governed his entire life, yet, all his other faculties had received 
an entire and vigorous development. His general health was good ; he was 
hardened against exterior influences. It is but a short time since he worked 
during the middle of winter in an unheated laboratory. For several years he 
suffered occasionally from attacks of gout, from whicli, however, he always com- 
pletely recovered. On this account he resorted, during the vacation of last 
summer, to Wildbad, thinking to fortify himself for the approaching winter. In 
returning, however, he was detained at Sauersberg, near Baden Baden, at the 
house of a friend by an abscess on his neck, which, rapidly assuming a dangerous 
character, rendered his return home impossible. The greatest care and medical 
aid could not an-est the march of this disease, and on the 29th of August he died 
peacefully in the house of his kind and attentive host. His obsequies took place 
at Basle, the 2d of September. The funeral was conducted by friends, among 
whom was Eisenlohr, who had visited him on his death-bed. A long train of 
colleagues, pupils, relations, and admirers accompanied him with emotions of 
deep sorrow to his last resting place. 



APPENDIX TO NOTICE OF SCHOENBEIN. 



[The phenomenon called passivity of metals mentioned in the foregoing eulogy 
as one of the discoveries of Schoenbein, consists in the fact that iron, for example, 
which, under ordinary conditions, is readily disolvcd in nitric acid, may while in 
a peculiar state remain for weeks in the same liquid without being acted on. 
This phenomenon is, without doubt, due to a galvanic action, which, when the 
iron is first plunged into the liquid deposits a coating of oxide which protects 
the metal from tlie further action of the acid. To illustrate this let a piece of 
clean iron wire be innnersed in strong nitric acid together with a slip of platinum, 
the former being introduced first and the two connected with the ends of the wire 
of a galvanometer, a powerful current will be inducted at the first comjdetion of 
the circuit, the iron acting as the positive metal, but the strength of this current 
will quickly decline to a small amount and then remain constant for several 
days. The iron thus treated is no longer attacked when plunged alone into 
nitric acid, and is said to be passive. Instead of using a galvanometer, which 
was merely introduced to prove the existence of a galvanic current, the same 
effect will be produced by touching the iron wire while the acid is acting on 
it with a piece of gold or platinum, also immersed in the liquid, the action will 
imraediatel}' cease and the mm become passive. When an iron wire in the 
passive state is plunged into nitric acid and the upper end touched with another iron 
wire, as soon as dipped into the acid the latter also becomes passive. In these experi- 
ment, the iron, which is rendered passive, acts as the zinc element of a galvanic 
pair, and is rapidly covered with an oxide which protects it from further action except 
of a very feeble character. In this state it may serve as the copper or negative 
metal of a galvanic pair, and really performs this part in the second experiment 
in which a galvanic couple is formed by the contact, while in the acid, of the 
passive and non-passive iron. The formation of an oxide sufliciently thick to 
protect the iron is not produced in rutric acid, of ordinary strength, unless a gal- 
vanic aiTangement such as we have described is adopted, but if it be plunged into 
very strong acid the action, though violent for an instant, will soon cease, and the 
metal assume the passive condition. If this wire be withdrawn from the acid 
and exposed to the air for a short time, or rubbe<l with sand])aper, it will resume 
its ordinary state. An iron wire nui}'^ also be rendered passive by holding it for 
a few minutes in the flame of a spirit lamp. 

Other metals — namely, silver, coj)i)er, tin, aluminum, and especially bismuth, 
may be brought into the passive state by the methods we have mentioned, but 
the effect is not as marked as with iron. Dr. Hare constructed a galvanic 
battery in which the platinum was represented by injn in the passive state, but 
the action was capricious; tlunigh at one moment powerful at another it became 
almost ncjthing. 

Another discovery of Schoenbein, mentioned in the foregoing sketch, is that 
oi gun-cotton, n vary explosive substance, produced by steeping cotton-wool in 
fuming nitric acid, or in a mixture of nitric and sulphuric acids, al'terwards washing 
and drying the product. This discovery was. announced by Schoenbein in 1845, 
but the ukkIc of j)reparation was kept secret. It was, however, soon rediscovered 
independently by Bettger and Otto, while Kept improved the process of pro- 
duction by the addition of sulphuric acid to the active rupiid. From the first it 
was proposed as a su])stitute for gunpowder, over which it possesses the advan- 
tages of burning without smoke, and leaving no rcsiiluuin to foul the clu'unber of 
the caiUKJii, Large establishments were erected fur its j)reparation, hut the 



190 NOTICE OF SCHOENBEIN. 

occuiTence of several severe accidents during its production, attended with great 
loss of lite, caused it to be regarded as too dangerous for military purposes, and, 
accordingly, its manufacture was foi" a time almost abandoned. Within the last 
few years, however, the attempt to make use of it as a substitute for gunpowder 
has been renewed and l>rought to a successful issue by an Austi'ian officer of 
artillery. 

Gun-cotton is used in military operations in the form of a spun yarn, in which 
it conducts combustion slowly in the open air at a rate of not more than one 
foot per second. Tliis yarn is used to form cartridges for large guns, by being 
wound round a bobbin, so as to form a hollow spindle and thus give an interior 
surface for the action of the flame and the production of the most effective explo- 
sion. The effect of the explosion of gun-cotton under water is remarkable ; the 
action is so instantaneous that the water has no time to yield, and consequently 
transmits the impulse as a solid material ; hence it is unnecessary to place the 
charge in immediate contact with the body to be destroyed. In one experiment 
two parallel rows of piers, 10 inches thick, in water 13 feet deep, with stones 
between them, were blown to pieces by a baiTel of 100 pounds of gun-cotton, 
placed at a distance of three feet from one side and eight feet under water. It 
made a breach of 15 feet, and threw the water to a height of 200 feet. In another 
experiment with 400 pounds of gun-cotton a vessel was blown up, the pieces pro- 
jected into the air to a height of 400 feet, and the fishes for nearl}^ half a mile 
around were so stunned as to float on the Avater. The rapidity of expansion and 
great elastic force of gun-cotton renders it a valuable agent in blasting. Its 
power when exerted against a great resistance, as in the case of splitting a rock, 
when compared with that of gunpowder, is in the ratio of 6^ to 1. 

The discovery which has rendered the name of Schoenbein most extensively 
known is that of ozone. Before the end of the last century Van Marum, of Hol- 
land, had observed that when an electric discharge was passed through oxygen 
the latter acquired a peculiar smell and the power of attacking mercury, l)at it 
was not until 1840 that any notice was taken of these facts, when Schoenbein 
published his first paper on ozone. In this he announced the fact that in the 
decomposition of Avater, by means of a galvanic battery, an odorous gas was given 
off at the positive pole, and that this might be preserved for a long time in a 
well-closed vessel. He also pointed out the fact of the similarity of this odor to 
that which accompanies a discharge of electricity, especially from points, and 
also the slow oxidation of phosphorus. Opinions as to the cause of the odor 
were long divided, but through the experiments of Schoenbein and the investi- 
gations of Andrews, and Tait, and others, it is now generally refeiTed to oxygen 
in a changed or allotropic condition. 

One of the simplest methods of exhibiting the production of ozone consists in 
transmitting a current of oxygen through a glass tube, into the sides of which a 
pair of platinum wires have been sealed, with their points a small distance apart. 
On connecting one of these wires with the prime conductor of an electric machine, 
in active operation, while the other is connected with the ground, the odor of 
ozone is immediately perceptible in the stream of gas. But in order to produce 
a maximum effect it is necessary to transmit the discharge silently in the form of 
a brush or a star, since sparks appear to produce an opposite effect, and are, 
therefore, to be avoided. Ozonized air may also be obtained by placing a stick 
of clean, moist phosphorus in a bottle of air or oxygen, when, after an hour or 
so, the smell of ozone will be obvious. The stick of phosphorus is then to be 
taken out and the gas washed with water to remove the phosphorous acid. Or 
ozone may at once be produced by plunging a heated glass rod into a mixture 
of air and a vapor of ether. The galvanic decomposition of water acidulated 
Avith sulphuric acid, or better, perhaps, Avith the addition of chromic acid, affords 
at the positive pole a large supply of ozone. The general characteristics of 
ozone are those of an oxydizing agent j it corrodes organic matter, as shown in 



NOTICE OF SCHOENBEIN. 191 

its oncrg'etic action on the caoutchouc tubes tlivou£>-b wliicli it is conducted. It 
bleaches most vegetable cxdors; it changes the black sulphide of lead into white 
sidphate, the yellow ferrocyanide of potassium into the red feirocyanide. It oxy- 
dizes moist filings of iron, copper, mercury, and silver. In some cases, however, 
ozone acts as a deoxydizing agent. It decom})oses peroxide of iron and barium. 
It exists in variable quantities in the atmosphere, and its presence is indicated 
by what is called ozone test-paper, namely, pa])er steeped in iodine of potassium, 
which is rendered brown by the liberation of the iodine. If starch be added to 
the solution in which the paper is steeped the ozone produces a blue color; but 
according to some authorities this test is not as reliable as that of the solution 
of the iodide of potassium alone. As ozone is an energetic oxydizing agent, it 
combines with animal matter and other impurities in the air, and hence its 
absence, as evinced by the want of coloration in the test-paper, is considered as 
an indication of the presence of malaria in the atmosphere of the locality in 
which such indications are observed. It is evident from what has been stated 
that ozone must 1)0 produced in the atmosphere by electrical discharges, but 
whether it exists from other sources in the air is at present unknown. Neither 
are the test-papers we have mentioned decisive proofs of its relative quantity, 
since there are other substances generally present in the air which are competent 
to produce similar efl'ects. 

One of the most plausible hypotheses as to the nature of ozone is that of Clau- 
sius, who considers all gases, whether simjile or compound, as made up of a num- 
ber of atoms combined together to form molecules. That, for instance, a mole- 
cule of oxygen consists of at least two atoms, and that it may happen that a 
portion of each of the great number of molecules which exists in a given quantity 
of oxygen can be decomposed into two atoms which distribute themselves in 
their separate state among the remaining undecomposed molecules, and that 
these isolated atoms, which in their relations to foreign bodies must differ from 
the molecules of ordinary oxygen, constitute ozone. 

In accordance with this hypothesis, the production of ozone by passing elec- 
tricity through oxygen or atmospheric air may be attributed simply to the repul- 
sive poAver of the electricity by virtue of which the two atoms of oxygen, beiug 
charged with the same kind of electricity, are driven apart, as in the case of the 
well known experiment of two pith-balls. When oxygen is evolved in the 
decom}X)sition of water, a similar repulsive separation takes place at each polo 
or electrode, but most of the atoms immediately combine again upon the elec- 
trodes to form ordinary oxygen. A small i)ortion only of the atoms remain in a 
separate condition, and these constitute the ozone with which the oxygen is 
niix(>d. Finally, in the case in which ozone is developed diu'ing the oxidation 
of phosphorus in nioist air or oxygen, we may suppose that the atoms which 
make up the oxygen molecules are in dilierent states or degrees of electricity ; 
that one of these tends more energetically to coml)ine with the phosphorus than 
the other; and that the latter, removed from the sphere of its attraction by 
the heat generated in the combination of the former, remains in an isolated con- 
dition. The fact that these atoms do not innnediately recombine into molecules 
to form ordinary oxygen may be due to their similar eh^ctrical state. When 
ozonized air is heati^d, the ozone disappears, because the high temperature deter- 
mines the union of the atoms as it does of hydrogen and oxygen in the 
a]»plication of a flame to a mixture of these two gases. It has been found 
that the ozonification of oxygen by the electrical spark or brush can only be 
carried on to a certain extent if the ozone remain mixed with the oxygen ; but it 
the ozone be removed as ra))idly as it is formed by the oxidation of silver, all 
the oxygen may l)e gradually converted into ozone. In this case, when the 
number of se])arate atoms l)ecome too great in a given sjiace, they are brought 
within the sphere of mutual attraction; combination ensues, and the ozone dis- 



192 NOTICE OF SCHOENBEIN. 

appears as fast as it is proclucecl in the reproduction of ordinary oxygen. Tlie 
power of combination with metals and other bodies exhibited by ozone becomes 
a consequence of this hypothesis, inasmuch as separate atoms must from analogy 
have more combining power with foreign bodies than atoms which are akeady 
in combination with each other. 

The hypothesis of Clausius is Very suggestive, and with a few supplementary 
assumptions can be made not only to render a plausible explanation of know'n 
phenomena, but also to indicate new experiments. It must be stated, however, 
that it is at variance, as presented in the foregoing sketch, with the experiments 
of Soret on the density of ozone. This chemist finds, from an elaborate inves- 
tigation, that when ordinary o-s.ygen is converted into ozone its density is 
increased instead of being diminished, as it should be, according to the hypoth- 
esis of Clausius. This result was arrived at by tw'o different methods, that of 
absorption and that of diffusion. Both gave approximately the same result, 
from which it appears that the density of ozone is one and a half times that of oxy- 
gen. According to the hypothesis of Clausius a molecule of oxygen consists of two 
atoms, and may be represented by 00, while an atom of ozone would be indica- 
ted by 0. From this it is evident that the density of ozone should be only one- 
half of that of oxygen. In order to make the hypothesis of Clausius agree with 
the result obtained by ^oret, we must suppose that while an element of oxygen 
consists of two atoms, and is represented by 00, an element of ozone con- 
sists of three atoms represented by 00,0 ; that when by electrical repulsion ox 
other action, the two atoms of oxygen are separated, one of them immediately 
unites with a molecule of ordinary oxygen and the other to a second molecule, 
forming two molecules of ozone out of three molecules of oxygen. Or, in other 
words, by the decomposition of one of three molecules 00 00 00 of oxygen, and 
recomposition with the remaining two, we shall have two molecules 00,0 00,0 of 
ozone. It is not necessary that we should limit a molecule of oxygen to two 
atoms ; on the contrary, we may suppose that it consists of an indefinite number 
provided we admit that under the action of electricity or other forces it is 
divided into two portions, each containing an equal number of atoms. In the 
present state of science, if we adopt the atomic constitution of matter, we must 
consider what was fonnerly assumed as the ultimate atoms of bodies, as groups* 
of atoms held in relative position by attracting and repelling forces. It is only 
by an assumption of this kind that we are enabled to obtain a mechanical con- 
ception of matter in any degree applicable to various chemical and physical 
phenomena.] J. H. 



MEMOIR OF ENCKE 



By G. Hagen. 



Translated for the Smithsonian Institution hj C. A. Alexander.* 

Last year died the director of our observatory, Professor Encke. Besides his 
otlier scientific and serviceable labors, ho acted for eight and thirty years as 
secretary of the physico-inathematical class of our Academy, and during- that long 
interval administered the affairs pertaining to the office with the utmost dis- 
interestedness, skill and discretion. 

Johann Franz Encke was born in Hamburg, September 23, 1791. His 
father, archdeacon in the Jacobi-church at tliat place, died four years afterwards. 
Although his mother brought to the rearing of her eight children remarkable 
energy <jf character, yet the moderate pension which the family still drew from 
the church by no means sufficed for the expense of extensive studies. 

As a preparation tor the business of life Enck(! first resorted to a private school 
kept by Hipp, the author of several mathematical works, and later, from 1805 
to 1810, frequented the Johanneum, wliere Hipp was still his teacher. Under 
these circumstances he very early clevek)ped a singular predilection for mathe- 
matical studies. At this time he voluntarily imposed on himself the task of 
repeatedly going over tlie collection of prol)lems propounded by Jileyer-Hirsch, 
and is stated in the parting certificate awarded him, October 11, 1810, to have 
been a model to his school-fellows for diligence, con-ectuess of deportment, and 
modesty. 

It was now that he expressed to his mother the wish to study astronomy, and 
his two elder brothers, who had entered into trade and who recognized his talent, 
devoted themselves to the furtherance of his purpose, which they were enabled 
to gratify through the intervention of the pastor, Scliiifer, During a year ho 
attended a gymnasium in Hamburg, and proceeded in 1811, shortly after the 
death of his mother, to Gottingen. Here an older fellow-countryman named 
Gerling introduced him to Gauss, whom he was accustomed afterwards to regard 
as pre-eminently his instmctor, and to whom he referred almost exclusively his 
mathematical and astronomical culture. Especially instructive did he consider 
an entirely private course ( privatissimum) Avhich, together with Gerling, he 
attended in the summer of 1812, at the residence of Gauss, who, on his own 
part, in a letter to Schumacher of this date, already calls Encke '' his highly 
accomplished and well-informed pujjil." 

Political events led Encke, in the beginning of 1813, to enter into the Han- 
seatic artillery service. He was engaged in tlie bloody fight for the fortress of 
Gohrde, September 16, where Wallmoden attacked and defeated the corps 
which Davoust had despatched thither imder Pecheux. He also took part, the 
following month, in Tettenborn'sl)old advance upon liremen. In the honorable 
discharge granted him, Jtme 24, 1814, he is styled sergeant-major of cavalry. 

He resumed his studies in Gottingen, but as the war broke out anew the fol- 
lowing spring, he at once decided, in company with his younger l)rotlier who 

*Abhandlungen der kouigl. Academie der Wisseuscbafteu zu Berlin, 1866. Eoad 5th 
July, 1866, before tbe Royal Academy of Sciences at Berlin 

13 s 



194 MEMOIR OF ENCKE. 

was studying theology, to serve under tlie Pmssian standai'd. He seems to have 
affixed to his offer of service a testimonial wherein Gauss certifies that Encke 
had '' at first attended and afterwards borne an active part in his manifold astro- 
nomical occupations and labors, and had manifested throughout distinguished 
talent, great diligence, and uncommon knowledge." The brothers were required 
to undergo an examination, which, in the case of our astronomer, at least, Avas 
never repeated. He received, June 10, 181-5, the commission of second lieu- 
tenant of artillery, and was first ordered to Thorn, and later to Graudenz. 

Encke would, proVjably, like his brother, have still further pm'sned a military 
career had not Von Lindenau, the director of the Seeberg observatory, at the 
recommendation of Gauss and Gerling, ofiered him in the beginning of 1816 the 
place of adjunct' therein. This induced him to ask a discharge from the army, 
Avhich was accorded on the 8th of March. Hereupon he went once more to 
Gottingen, and remained there till July 5, 1816, when his nomination to the 
observatory was confirmed. The appointment was by no means dazzling. The 
salary was but $15 a month, and the place of service consisted of a garret so 
lowly that he touched the ceiling when he raised his hand above his head. Not 
the less did there go forth from hence such labors as soon turned the general 
attention on the young astronomer. With so much zeal did Encke apply him- 
self to his duties that only oiice a week did he leave the observatory and go to 
Gotha. 

He first occupied himself with the newly discovered small planets, especially 
Vesta, whose orbit he traced with superior accurac}', and of whose apparent motion 
he puljlished the ephemerides. Another labor, if one of subordinate importance, 
was not without consequence by placing him in friendly correspondence with 
Bessel. The Fimdamenta Astronomice had been printed at Gotha, and Lindenau, 
on whom the correction of the press devolved, transferred this task to his assistant. 
Encke, however, did not confine himself to a comparison of the manuscript with 
the impression, but repeated the calculations. Hence Bessel says, in the preface 
to his work, '' Mr. Encke, who occupies the second place in the Seeberg 
observatory, but who would be an ornament to the first, has given himself with 
unsurpassed skill to the revision of the imprint, even to the detection and cor- 
rection of the eiTors of the manuscript. I must acknowledge this with the more 
thankfulness, inasmuch as his time is worthily occupied with his own astronomical 
researches, and between us no other bond exists than that which embraces all 
who devote themselves with zeal to the same science." 

The first of the more important labors of Encke relates to the comet of 1812.* 

This had been observed for two months at all the greater observatories. Encke 
had, at his first residence in Gottingen, and therefore immediately on the appear- 
ance of the comet, begun tlie calculation which, in the well-considered and careful 
employment of numerous observations and the exact execution of extended com- 
putations, takes rank with the most admirable investigations of this nature. It 
was crowned Avith a special result, since an elliptical orbit corresponded with 
the revolution of nearly 71 years. 

How important this discoA'ery Avas considered at that time is seen fi'om a letter 
of Bessel's : '^ You have adduced the strongest proof for the shortness of the 
revolution of this comet, and placed the result in the clearest light. We have 
now, since we begin more narrowly to observe and to calculate the comets, quite 
other views to maintain. Haliey's comet seemed only to be an exception. As 
regards that of Olbers, I scarcely trusted my own calculation, as this gave but a 
middling revolution. Yours is now the third. Our successors, through an exact 
investigation of the planet-masses, Avill be enabled to recognize the true move- 
ment of the heavenly bodies Avith a perfection of which we have scarcely an idea." 

* In the second volume of the Zeitschrift filr Astronomic und verwandte Wissenschaften, 
p. 337 et seq. 



MEMOIR OF ENCKE. 195 

Enclce immecHately thereafter addressed himself to a similar yet more trouble- 
some inquiry. The editors of the Zeifschrift fur Astronomie had chosen as the 
thesis for the prize otJ'ered by Cotta, the computation of the orbit of the comet of 
1680. Tliis comet, on account of its luminosity, the length of its tail, which 
comprised 80 deg-rees, as well as the duration of its visibility, had presented one 
of the o-iandest phenomena of which tlie history of the heavens makes mention. 
It had been extensively observed by the astronomers of the period, es])ecially 
by Flarasteed, Xewton, and Cassini, thouiih the observations had been limited 
to the measin-ement of the distances of the fixed stars, and the comets' ])lacehad 
been in part only estimated, inasmuch as the oliservers had been content to sup- 
pose the body bisected by two great circles drawn through four neighboring 
stars, which circles only approximately touched it. 

Encke wrote toBessel that, at the special request of Lindenau, he would attempt 
the solution of the problem, and with this view requested the communication f)f 
a number of stellar positions from the catalogue of Bradley. With this request 
Bessel at once complied, but expressed the apprehension that the result wotihl 
scarcely justify the expenditure of tiiBe, ashe deemed the observations too uncertain. 
And, indeed, of so large a number of measurements there were but few that 
were avaihible. In many cases it was even uncertain from what fixed stars the 
distances were measured. Nevertheless it was found, on critical examination, tliat 
Flamsteed's observations disclosed a high degree of accuracy, since their probable 
en-ors amounted to but 15 seconds of arc spherical. With due regard to planetary 
disturbances this orbit was also shown to be elliptical, and the period of revolu- 
tion was found to be 8,813 years. 

Gauss cordially congratulated Encke '' on this admirable prize essay, to which 
he Avas indebted for so much pleasure." Bessel expressed himself in more 
specific terms : " It is without example that the more ancient observatittns have 
been reduced to so small a probable error. We learn from this, that to a good 
astronomical result there is indispensable, besides a tolerably good instrument and 
a capable observer, an able calculator also. If the last be wanting, the rest is 
little worth." 

Together wnth these great labors Encke occupied himself in many ways witli 
the incidental calculation of cometary orbits. As often as one was discovered, 
a"!ul had been for some time observed, he was accustomed to publish, not only 
its orbital elements, but, to facilitate further observations, its ephemeris as well. 
The constant practice and fine perception which guided him in the choice and 
grouping of the observations enabled him to arrive with wonderful certainty at 
a correct result. A remarkable example of this was furnished by the third comet 
of 1819, for which Encke, from some scanty Marseillese and a few Milanese 
observations, so acciuately calculated the elements of an elliptic orbit and a 
revolution of 5^ years, that on the re-discovery of the comet at the Bonn obser- 
vatory after seven revolutions (in the year 1858) no important qualifications were 
admissible. This practical knowledge and perspicacity led, no doitbt, to the 
discovery through which Encke's name is most generally known. 

A comet was discovered November 26, 1818, by Pons at Marseilles, the path 
of which, as Gibers soon remarked, Avas nearly coincident with that of the comet 
of 1795 and 1805. It had been already surmised that the orbit was elliptical 
and the period of revolution short l)eyond example. The elucidation of this 
reniarkalde circumstance was probably undertaken by many astronomers, thougli 
it was Encke who first sitcceeded in shedding complete light upon it. The time 
of revolution amounted to 1,207 days, or nearly 3:} years, and it was this comet 
respecting which Bessel had expressed a conjectural opinion that it moved in an 
ellii)tical orbit.* 

lu a communication on this comet Olbefs extols " the skill, the care, and tho 

• In tho Berliner Aslronomiches Jahrbuch for 1822, which was published in 1819. 



196 MEMOIR OF ENCKE. 

genius" wliicl) Encke had lavished on the calcuLations. Bessel, who had heard 
of the comet during an absence from Konigsberg, wrote to one of his scholars : 
" It becomes clearer and clearer that this comet is the most important scientific 
discovery of the present century." Olbers also expressed himself in the same 
terms in a letter to Bessel. 

Although the short period was in itself of the most pregnant consequence as 
affording the prospect of a more certain determination of the masses of the planets 
which exert an influence on the comet, yet further investigation soon led the way 
to another wholly unexpected result. Encke found, in effect, that this comet 
had been observed, also, in 1786, and hence four times in all, Avhile no less than 
seven times in the interval its return had not been noticed. From a comparison 
of the three intervals -between the observed transits it resulted, with all due 
allowance for the planetary disturbances, that each revolution, as regards the 
next preceding one, had been shortened by about three hours. 

Olbers was the first to conjecture that the comet encountered a certain resist- 
ance whereby its approximation to the sun, and, consequently, the shortening of 
its period of revolution might be accounted for. Encke concurred in this view, 
while Bessel dissented from it. In the correspondence between the two, the 
reasons for and against the hypothesis were, for many years, fully discussed. 
In 1830 Bessel writes : " What admirable results are yielded by careful labor 
is now again seen in the conformableness of that unknown disturbance which 
you call resistance. Of the existence of such disturbance there can ]>e no doubt, 
nor could there be long ago, but that it is a real resistance becomes more proble- 
matical to me the more I reflect uj^on it." 

Encke continued assiduously to observe this comet, wdiich he always called 
the comet of Pons, though his own naiiie was, with perfect justice, commonly 
applied to it. Before each of its returns he made known its ephemeris in order 
to facilitate observation, and as the shortening of the period of revolution con- 
stantly recurred, in which fact he saw a confirmation of the above hypothesis, he 
developed, in 1831, his theory of the movement of heavenly bodies in the resisting 
medium. For the constants introduced, the values admitted of determination 
from foregoing observations. 

Halley's comet, which re-appeared in 1835 after a period of 76 j^ears, occupied 
very exactly the same positions which Rosenberger had previously calculated 
from the earlier observations. By this body, therefore, the hypothesis of the 
resisting medium was not confirmed, though it was by no means decidedly con- 
tradicted, because neither the earlier measurements nor the masses of the planets 
relied upon as a ground of calculation could be regarded as altogether certain ; 
perhaps, also, this comet might have a denser mass, and the effects of resistance 
be on that account not so conspicuous. 

The comet discovered still later by Faye seemed at last to remove the doubt 
previously existing. The period of this body, 7^ years, was, according to Hol- 
ler's computation, shortened at each revolution by about 17 hours, and Encke 
showed {Berliner AsirononiiscJics Jahrhnchfilr 1864) that this acceleration could, 
with very close approximation, be explained by the resistance Avhich the comet 
of shorter circuit had undergone. In the meantime Mciller communicated the 
results of a more rigorous calculation, [Astronomisclie Nachriclden^ vol. 64, p. 
145,) in which were considered those quantities of the second order in the 
co-ordinates of the disturbances which arise from the changes sustained by the 
elements through the addition of new fundamental places at the more recent 
retm-ns. By this it was found possible to bring all the three phenomena into 
harmony -without the assumption of the resisting medium. The errors remaining 
over were, through this procedure, it is true, considerably greater than after the 
first calculation, but Muller entertained the hope of being able, by a renewed 
and stricter calculation, to attain a still closer conformity. Whether, therefore, 
Faye's comet does or does not confirm the hypothesis of the resisting medium, 



MEMOIR OF ENCKE. 197 

or, in more general terms, that of a yet unknown cause operating upon both 
comets, still remains undecided. 

Two other important investigations of Encke related to the sun's parallax, as 
derived from the transits of Venus in 1761 and 17G9, the last of which Cook 
Lad observed at Tahiti. After coiTCction of the observations, revised by 
Father Hell in Vieinia,. Encke found the parallax to be 8.57 seconds. ''You 
have turned to account," wTotc Bessel, '' what had l)een collected by the cxjxmi- 
diture of vast sums and by the efforts of many, and thus those efforts have first 
achieved success and still point onward to a step in advance." This magnitude 
of the parallax was for a long time generally accepted; but subsequently, from 
the opposition of Mars and the disturbances of the moon, was estimated at 8.9 
seconds. The difference between this value and that found by Encke arose 
from the circumstance that the position of the places of observation was not 
ascertained with the requisite precision. After a more accurate determination of 
this point in later times, the sun's parallax, as deduced from those old observa- 
tions, has been shown by Powalky to amount to only 8.832 seconds.* 

Encke's personal position had so far changed, soon after his accession to the 
observatory, that the charge of its management had devolved on him, at first 
partially, through the intermitting attendance of Lindenau, and soon wholly, 
from the absorption of the latter in administrative afthirs. As no other duties 
claimed his time, Encke could now resign himself to scientific labor with free and 
entire devotion. The value which he placed upon this rare immunity is seen 
from a letter in which he declined an appointment tendered him of a professor- 
ship in the University of Greifswald. "i'he chair of mathematics and astnuiomy 
Lad there become vacant by the death of Professor Droysen, in 1814, and for 
some years no successor was ajjpointcd. Bessel called Encke's attention to this, 
and as, in regard to external circumstances, the situation presented great advan- 
tages over that of Seeberg, proposed to recommend him for it. The philosoph- 
ical faculty at the same time consulted both Gauss and Bessel in regard to a 
choice. The preference of Gauss fell upon Gerling, who had already approved 
himself as a teacLcr, tliougli next lie recommended Encke, wLom, in regard to 
knowledge and capacity, lie rated quite as Lighly. Bessel, on the other hand, 
named Encke in the first place : " He is a young man whose character is as 
amiable as his acquirements in astronomy and mathematics are distinguished ; 
nor is his skill as a practical astronomer less so. Many are the admirable labors 
for which we are already indebted to Lim, evincing a diligence and conscienti- 
ousness lieyond praise." 

To the question now addressed by the faculty to Encke, whether he would 
permit himself to be placed in nominati(Ui for the office, he replied, INlarch 16, 
1818, as follows: "My place here as adjunct of the observatory I have now 
occupied for two years, and must, in justice, regard it as eminently fortunate, 
seeing Low much my student years were abridged by tlio distractions of the war, 
that I Lave been assigned to a position so wholly free from the demands of 
other business, provided with so excellent a stock of instruments, under a direc- 
tor (Herr Von Lindenau) whom Germany honors as one of its first astronomers, 
and where, in short, it is permitted me to live exclusivel}'' for science. This i)Osi- 
tion has at present so far changed that the director, involved in many other affairs, 
and but just returned after a year's absence. Las no prospect but to be again and 
repeatedly absent in the course of the cun-ent year. Under these circumstances 
my emplo3'ers have taken occasion so clearly to indicate their wish that I should 
remain here, tLat I sLould little respond to their jjrevious kindness were I not 
ready to forgo the great advantages proffered me by tLe Greifswald University. 

* [This element has been recently iiivestif^atedat the Naval Obsei-vatory, Washiugton, by 
Professor Nevvconib, from all. the more valuable data of recent times, and its value is thus 
fixed atC)".C!5, with a probable error of not more thau two or three hundredths of a second. 

J. II.] 



198 MEMOIR OF ENCKE. 

How higlily soever, tliercfore, I may appreciate the honor of the proposal made 
to me, I am under the necessity of declining its acceptance." 

We learn from a note by Gauss that the ducal government had taken the 
occasion of tliis call to increase the salary, and also to confer upon Enche the 
title of professor. Two years later he was named vice-director, and in 1822 
director of the observatory. 

In the last named year Walbeck died in Abo. Encke, though widely solic- 
ited to propose for the vacant place, could not be induced to comply, though 
here again the opportunity of greatly bettering his circumstances was presented 
to him. The grounds of his refusal were freely communicated to Besscl, and 
among them we find his recently contracted marriage : he was unwilling to 
transport his young wife to so northern a latitude. 

Not the less did the discomforts and inconveniences of the residence at the 
observatory continue to be sensibly felt. During storms it was impossible to 
leave the building- or have access to the city. Even with moderate winds the 
stroke of the pendulum clock could not be heard, and thus the observations 
were rendered difficult. Particularly annoying to Encke was the loss of the 
library, which belonged partly to Zach and partly to Lindenau, and which, in 
1822, was withdrawn by both owners. At last, however, the prospect of a 
favorable change offered itself. Tralles, till then secretary of the physico- 
wathematical class of our Academy, had died in 1822. Gauss was nominated 
as his successor, but at the close of 1824, after long negotiations, peremptorily 
declined the offer. At the same time Bode took his discharge, and it thus 
became practicable to unite with the above named place that of director of the 
academical observatory. 

Bessel wrote to Encke, February 16, 1825, that this place had been offered 
to him, but that he had unconditionally declined, because he could not leave his 
own observatory. He had named Encke as the only one suited for it. The 
academy had approved of the proposition, and committed to him the negotiation 
respecting it. He goes on to say : " You will see what rare fruits will proceed 
from our co-operation. I know your modest}^, and feared that you might not 
deem yourself qualified. To any such olyection I oppose the firm conviction 
that you, and you alone, are fully qualified for the position ; and I expect you 
on this point to believe me rather than yourself, which, in view of your modesty, 
cannot be so very difficult." 

Encke answered that he hoped indeed that he was competent to the continu- 
ance of the journal (Jahrhucli) and the execution of astronomical calculations, 
though he must absolutely decline if the demands went any further. Bessel, 
who was just setting out on a journey to Berlin, wrote, March 20 : "I will 
make inquir}' about ever^-thing, and when I learn that your wishes in regard to 
the definite occupation can be complied with, and if a suitable provision be stipu- 
lated, I shall, in your name, say yes. Do not be startled at this libert}^ which 
I am taking. You can limit it by a letter which will reach me at Berlin." 

Such a letter accordingly came, but it contained no decided refusal, and hence 
Bessel could write in reply : " You have not forbidden the agreeement, so I now 
hold you fast ; you are now one of us." 

The election which ensued in the academy was confirmed by the higher 
authorities, and Encke was named, June 21, member of the academy, secretary 
of the class, and director of the observatory. The ducal mi)iistry, at the head 
of which Lindenau then stood, soon after accorded him a discharge from his 
previous situation, adding that '■'■ it dismissed so distinguished an official with 
regret, and only not to be a hindrance to his prospects in life." 

Encke arrived at Berlin, October 11, 1825. He soon felt himself on a level 
with the duties devolved on him, and found, complete satisfaction in their dis- 
charge. He was not bound to make reports to the university, but he voluntarily 
adopted the practice the following year. By the philosoplncal faculty of the 
university the honorary diploma of doctor was conferred on him, September 11, 



MEMOIR OF ENCKE. 19D 

1826, as a testimonial "to tlic sagacious matliematician and successful investi- 
gator of the cometaiy system" — mathematico sagacissimo, cometarum indagatori 
felicissimo. 

Previously to these events an important scientiiic nu'lcrtaking had heeu set 
on foot by Bessel — the editing, namely, of stellar charts, which should represent, 
in 24 sheets, the zones included between 15° north and 15° south latitude, with 
all the stars, to those of the 9th and 10th magnitude, which could be disccnu-d 
Avith a Frauenhofer comet-searcher of 34 lines opening and tenfold magnifying 
power. Very soon after Enckc's accession the academy invited the friends of 
astronomy to participate in the enterprise, stipulatiug a suitable honorarium for 
each available sheet. It was Enche who undertook the correspondence in regard 
to the repartition of the task, as well as the critical examination of the slu'cts 
and care of the engraving. The business part thus assumed, while in itself the 
most unthankful of the whole, was rendered more difficult because those who 
contracted engagements often failed to fulfil them, and sometimes what was pro- 
duced did not answer to the requirements. At the close of 1858, and hence 
after 33 years, the last sheet made its appearance. The results of this under- 
taking surpassed, even before its coinpletion, all expectation. The first discov- 
ery of a new planet, Astra?a, occurred in 1845, and others rapidly followed. At 
present, with the use of these charts, or in consequence of the completeness ren- 
dered attainable by them, 81 planets have been detected, while the discovery 
and observation of comets have been essentially facilitated. 

The editing of the astronomical Annual (Jahrbi(cli) had still occupied Bode 
on his withdrawal from the observatory. The tables for 1829 had already ap- 
peared and the calculations for the following year been begun, when Bode died, 
November 24, 1826. Encke undertook the continuation, and as the tallies in 
their then extent and precision no longer satisfied the new demands of science, 
it was found necessary to give them greater enlargement and completeness, as 
well as to employ a still more rigorous computation. If Encke in this labor 
availed himself of extraneous help, it was still so exacting that he was con- 
strained at once to forego his lectures at the university. 

What acceptance the new Annual found with astronomers may be gath- 
ered from Bessel's letters. " This is indeed an ephemeris," he said, *' such as it 
should be. You make an offering of yourself for astronomy, and one can but 
wish that the progress which you aim at in doing so may indeed be realized, and 
that the result may correspond to the magnitude of the sacrifice. I hav^ always 
thought that an ephemeris of this calibre must produce great results, but I had 
not ])elieved that any one would subject himself to so great a trouble " * * "I 
have been completely charmed with yoiu- work, and confess that I can imagine 
nothing more complete. It is all excellent. But explain t(» me, I pray, why it 
is that the French have not a Connaissance dcs Tc>»5and the English uNauitcal 
Almanac such as your Year-book afl'ords, although both, and especially the latter, 
do not want for money to pay hosts of calculators. But what is absent, in fact, 
and is almost always al)sent, is the clear insight into science and its true wants." 

In the course of the following year many complementary improvements were 
introduced, the Annual for 1844 being especially enlarged, at the instance of the 
ministry of commerce, by several extensive tables for the use of mariners. These, 
however, were but little employed in the Prussian marine, chiefiy for the reason 
that the sea charts were constructed with reference to another meridian, that of 
Greenwich, and the nautical tables in question were withdrawn from the Amnial 
for 1852 and the following years. 

The Berfin observatory, in Dorothea street, which En(di(; had undertaken to 
conduct, answered not long to the demands of the new astronomy. It liad been 
erected in 1711, and was furnished with the instruments corresponding to that 
period. It was situated, at first, without the city, but Berlin had in the mean- 
time spread so much in that direction that high Imildings overtopped it. About 
the year 1800 the necessity was seen of adiling an additional story, l)ut the 



200 MEMOIR OF ENCKE. 

steadfastness of the instruments was thereby still more prejuiliced, and the con- 
cussion of the intercourse in the streets hindered all exact measurement. To 
this must be added the continued noise and the impurity of the atmosphere. 
Eucke wrote, soon after his arrival, to Bessel, that the only serviceable instru- 
ment was the Frauenhofer heliometer, though this, too, could scarcely be used 
on account of the insecure stability. The best thing about the observatory was 
the library, limited as it was. 

After Bode's death the erection of a new observatory was canvassed, and if 
at first Encke expressed himself with some humor about the proposed destina- 
tion thereof, he nevertheless soon entered earnestly into the scheme. Bessel 
urged him to consider well " whether the satisfaction in the possession of an 
observatory or the hindrance to those labors to which he owed his renown, were 
greatest." In a following letter it is said: ^' I regard you as the astronomer on 
whom the superintendence of the calculations is obligatory. Others have other 
functions : you, my dear Encke, can undertake nothing new without neglecting 
what has earlier claims upon j^ou, and is in reality of more essential importance. 
Be cautious, I pray you, in this matter." 

Encke now addressed himself to Humboldt with the request that he would 
decide upon the proper objects of an observatory for this country. Ordinary 
observations, such as can here be scarcely conducted, are at present, he argued, 
without value. If it were proposed to afford opportunity for serviceable astro- 
nomical observations, a new observatory' Avould be indispensable. This commu- 
nication led Humboldt to second the movement for building a new observatory, 
which was authorized October 15, 1828, at the same time with the ordering of 
several important instruments from artists of the besf repute. The purchase of 
a large refractor, which Frauenhofer had nearly finished, immediately follo\ved. 

Encke's questions drew from Bessel a prompt answer respecting the judicious 
arrangement and equipment of the observatorj'^, but still accompanied with pre- 
cautionary counsels : "I think that neither your efficiency nor satisfaction will 
gain anything if you convert yourself into an observatory astronomer. In my 
opinion the observatory^ should not be the main point with you. An assistant, 
adjunct, or whatever you may please to call him, should do the work therein. 
Immeasurably more is to be done in order to save the material collected from 
being lost and suitably to use it. If this is once accomplished, it will be then 
for you to show to what ends further observations may be directed with the most 
fruitful results." 

In the beginning of 1835 the building was finished, the instruments soon after 
put in position, and the activity of the new observatory commenced with the 
observation of Halley's comet. The observations which, since that epoch, have 
been instituted, partly by Encke himself and pavtly b}' his assistants, have been 
publislied in four volumes, which will soon be followed by a fifth. 

How close were the friendly relations between Bessel and Encke is Seen from 
the foregoing comnnmications. They were knit still more closely when Encke 
took charge of the corrections of the press for the Fundamcnta Astronomia;. 
After Bessel, on a journey in 1819, had formed a jiersonal acquaintance with 
Encke, he wrote to him : " I see in you not only a firm stay of astronomy in Ger- 
many, but a cherished and outspoken friend ; botli considerations prompt me to 
wish that you should continual to accord to me a portion of your aff'ectionate regard." 

On his return to Konigsberg Bessel spoke with enthusiasm of the gifted and 
estimable astronomer whose first labors had deservedly raised him to the highest 
consideration. The correspondence which followed was not restricted, lilvc that 
between Olbers and Bessel, to scientific connnunications and the more serious 
affairs of life, but was rather a confidential intercoranmnioii, which embraced at 
once their respective enterprises, whether begun or contemplated, and the frankest 
utterances on subjects of ever}' nature. It is not to be disguised, however, that 
Bessel gave freer scope to his feelings, while Encke often observed a certain 
iiegree of reserve. This intercourse had already lasted some years, when we 



MEMOIR OF ENCKE. 201 

find Bcssel constvcainecl, as it were, to hcg of " the liiglily respected professor" 
tbat lie would not allow tlieir correspondence to languish. " You cannot do mo 
the injustice to suppose that any one in the world is dearer to me and more highly 
confided in than yourself. Wherefore, then, a formality which, on ni}- part, haa 
been long- ago discarded ?" 

That views and conceptions should sometimes have diffcrfed Avas, of course, 
inevitable. I'he difterences, however, Avere calndy discussed in the correspond- 
ence, but they failed not progressively to become more and more pronounced and 
frequent. The last friendly letter Ijcssel closed with the words, " I cannot 
imagine that different relations should find an entrance between us." Not the 
less, however, did such relations find entrance, and that immediately. The 
occasion was given far less by any single controverted points which had arisen 
in the course of astronomical journalism than by the contrast of personal position. 
Bessel, easily excited in oral as in written intercourse, as Atarmly maintained the 
opinions which he conceived to be right as he emphatically repelled those opposed 
to them, and so sometimes forgot that he who had begun earliest had not only 
erected himself into a master, but expressly assumed a higher and more influential 
position than was his due. Thus in one of the last letters Bessel styles himself 
'' the experienced friend," and, as such, thought himself authorized to counsel and 
warn, whereupon Encke explained " that he could only take the course which: 
alone was consonant to his nature." 

Since 1837 only a few formal and professional letters had been exchanged.) 
When Encke, however, in 1845, sought to obtain Bessel's views with regard to^ 
a new edition of the treatise of Olbers on the calculation of the orbits of comets,; 
he made, as in earlier years, various communications respecting his own labors,' 
and added the assurance of his deepest concern for Bessel's afflictions. The 
answer, besides the desired opinion, conveyed a thanliLful acknowledgment. At 
the close of the same year Encke communicated the first result of the stellar 
charts in the discovery of a new planet. A mutual approach was thus again in 
progress, when some months later the death of Bessel occurred. 

The words which, from this place, Encke 20 years ago dedicated to the memory 
of Bessel, contain the fullest recognition of his great services in behalf of 
astronomy, but make no mention of the friendly relations which had existed 
between them. On that subject nothing could be ventured without, at the same 
time, recalling their later and well-known estrangement. However much that 
estrangement is to be regretted, it now no longer forbids us to recur to a friend- 
ship whicli not only endured with singular devotion fjr 30 years, but was of 
great importance for the advancement of science. 

It only remains to recount the occupations of Encke's life during the last ten 
years. The extensive calculations for the Year-book, if, to a certain extent, 
devolved on the assistants, continually required his co-operation, and the more 
as the numerous newly discovered planets were to be taken into consideration. 
The academical functions connected with the editing of the stellar charts, the 
discourses before the university, the participation in the observations at the 
observatory, and in the accurate testing of the new and older instruments there 
deposited, together with his activity in the commission of studies for the military 
academy, anil in the deputation respecting the calendar, to say nothing of the 
manilbhl inevitable demands which await the director of an observatory in a 
larg(! cit}', all these api>ear so engrossing that we have only room for wonder 
tliat Encke should still have found time for the communication of so large a 
num1)er of scienlilic papers to the transactions of the academy, the astronomi- 
cal Year-book, and various mathematical and astronomical journals. Many 
of these relate to the execution <jf calculations, such as the method of least 
S(piares, inter[)olation, the mechanical (piadrature and the like. The}' are chiefly 
of astronomical import, and bear relation to the ])arallax of the sun and moon, 
the dimensions of the terrestrial glolje, the constants of the Berlin observator\-, 
the masses of the planets, the deterniinatiou of the orbits of planets and those 



202 MEMOIR OF ENCKE. 

of comets ; the latter as well with reference to parabolic as elliptical and hyper- 
bolic orbits ; the calculation of occultations and transits, the testing of different 
astronomical instruments, and in an especial manner the disturbances arising 
from the approximations of the heavenly bodies. Not only did he set forth in 
more than one treatise, and, with singular clearness, rules for the calculation of 
these disturbances according to the old method of Lagrange, as perfected by 
Gauss and Bessel,but almost simultaneously with the younger Bond at Cambridge, 
in America, he suggested a new method by which the calculation of the orbital 
elements of many of the recentl}^ discovered small planets was essentially facili- 
tated. By this, instead of the changes which the disturbances produce in the 
elements of the orbits, it was proposed immediately to calculate those Avhich the 
rectangular co-ordinates undergo. This method, if somewhat uncertain for long 
periods of time, was, , on account of its convenience, extensively employed, till 
the later method devised by Hansen became more generally introduced. Encke 
also composed some physical treatises on dioptrics and the ballistic problem, as 
well as several popular lectures on different astronomical suljjects. The lattei", 
though but partially published, were distinguished for an ingenious co-ordination 
of facts, and were received with unqualified applause. 

Towards his numerous friends and acquaintances Encke maintained that 
uprightness of intention which, with his sympathetic and open nature, his clear 
and unperverted judgment, won him the highest consideration and love. In his 
domestic circle the course of a serene life was disturbed by no loss until, in 1856, 
the news arrived of the death of his second son at Rio Janeiro. 

On the 17th of November, 1856, Encke fell in the street from sudden vertigo. 
Although the apprehensions at first felt were not realized, yet the rare vigor of 
earlier years did not return. A new and severe loss befell him the next year in 
the death of his brother, the same with whom he had entered the Prussian artil- 
lery, 45 years before, and who had since been advanced to the rank of lieutenant 
general. A few years later he lost his sister, who had lived in his Louse. In 
February, 1863, he sustained an apoplecticattack, from which he so far recovered 
as to be able to return to his labors, and even to journey to Leipsic in order to 
witness the nuptials of his old scholar, professor Bruhns, but his condition 
remained so critical that soon all intellectual effort was forbidden him. He 
therefore spent the summer with his friends in Goslar and Wernigerode, and, on 
his return, was still bent upon resuming his labors, but his physician, the more effec- 
tually to prevent this, ordainedhim a new journey to Kiel ; from Kiel he went with 
his family in December, 1863, to Spandau, where his eldest son was established. 
At his urgent and oft rei)eated request he was permitted by his medical adviser 
again to visit the observatory. Here he traversed with interest the observiiig 
rooms, and marked with particular attention the changed erection of the great 
refractor, which was now borne upon a stone pillar instead of the old wooden 
support. He soon tired, however, and returned contentedly to Spandau. From 
this time his bodily strength and mental activity continued to decline, until a 
second apoplectic attack occurred In July of the next year, and was followed ])y 
complete paralysis. A painless death released him, 26th August, 1865, from 
long sufferings. 

If Encke's services in behalf of astronomy secure him an enduring remem- 
brance, it continues also to survive in the grateful recollection of his numerous 
pupils. In the calculations for the Year-book, as w'ell as in the prosecution of 
other astronomical labors, he delighted to find himself surrounded by young 
people, to whose instruction in all parts of knowledge he gave himself with a 
rare talent for conveying it; ever entertaining with them the most friendly ixda- 
tions, and thus winning to the pursuit of his science a number of pupils unequalled, 
perhaps, by any other astronomer. Among them ma}^ be counted the present 
directors of the observatories of Berlin, Breslau, Leipsic, Hamburg, Bilk, Copen- 
hagen, Helsingfors, and Dublin, who, with many others, have contributed through 
their scientific labors greatly to extend his reputation. 



MEMOIR OF EATON HODGKINSON, 

Professor of Enoineering, University College, London. 



By Robert Rawson. 



{From the Transactions of the Literary and Philosophical Society of Manchester, England 

vol. J I, third series, 180.").) 

The subject of tliis memoir was born, of respectable parents, at tlie small 
village of Anderton, in the parish of Great Budworth, Cheshire, on the 26th of 
Februar}', 1789 ; died at Eglesfield House, Higher Broughton, Manchester, 
June 18, 1861, in his seventy-second year, and was interred at his native vilLage. 
His father died when he was about six years of age, leaving his mother with three 
chihlren, whose education and maintenance depended upon her exerticnis and 
prudence. He left his native village, witli his mother and sister, at the age of 22, and 
came to reside at Salford, Manchester, Avhere he remained the greater portion of 
his after life. He was elected a member of this society in the year 18i-6, and 
be enriched the society's memoirs with the following important papers, thus laying 
the foundation of his reputation as a sound mathematician and an original thinker : 

" On the Transverse Strain and Strength of IVIaterials," (read March 22, 1822.) 

"On the Chain Bridge at Broughton,^" (read February 8, 1828.) 

" On the Forms of the Catenary in Suspension Bridges," (read February 8, 
1828.) 

"A few Remarks on the Menai Bridge," (read December 12, 1828.) 

'' Theoretical and Experimental Researches to ascertain the Strength and 
best Forms of Iron Beams," (read April 2, 1830.) 

"Appendix to the Paper on the Chain Bridge at Higher Bronghton, Man- 
chester." 

" Some account of the late Mr. Ewart's paper on tlie Measure of Moving 
Force, and of the recent applications of the Principle of Living Forces to esti- 
mate the effects of Jlachines and Movers," (read April 30, 1844.) 

He occupied in succession the distinguished positions of vice-president and 
president of this society. He was a leading member of the British Association 
for the Advancement of Science iVom its commencement, and contributed greatly 
to the interest and efhciency of the mathematical and mecdianical sections. Ho 
also gave active help to the association in several valuable reports on pure and 
mixed science. These re})orts, which have in a great degree assisted in main- 
taining the high scientific renown of the association, an^ as follows: 

Third report, 1833: "On the Etiect of Impact on Beams." "On the direct 
Tensile Strength of Cast Iron." 

Fourth report, 1835: "On the Collision of Imperfectly Elastic Bodies." 

Fifth report, 183.5: "Impact ui)on Beams." 

He held the distinguished position of vic(!-president of the association in tho 
year 1861. 

In the year 1841 ho was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society, and contrib- 
uted to its transactions t\v(j elaborate pajjcrs : 

"Experimental Researches on the Strength of PiUars of Cast Iron and other 
materials," (read. May 14, 1840.) 

The aim of this paper was greatly extended in the second comnmnication : 

"Experimental Researches on the Strength of Pillars of Cast Iron from various 
parts of the kingdom," (read June, 1857.) 



204 MEMOIR OF EATON HODGKINSON. 

For the first paper the council of the Royal Society awarded the gold medal 
as a mark of their a2:)preciation of its practical investigations. 

He was appointed professor of the mechanical principles of engineering at 
TJniversit}^ College, London, on the 6th of Februar}^, 1847, and lectured during 
the sessions of 1847 to 1853, inclusive. In 1847 he was appointed a member of 
the royal commission to inquire into the properties of wrought and cast iron and 
their application to railway structm'es. The results of his labors in this impor- 
tant inquiry are given, with marked reference to their magnitude and efficiency, in 
the commissioners' report of 1849. He was consulted by the late Robert Stephen- 
son in reference to the construction of that great national work, the tubular bridge 
over the Menai straits. His experience and mathematical knowledge enabled 
him to suggest and carry out a series of experiments, at the cost of several 
thousand pounds, with a view to investigate the bearing properties of wrought 
iron rivited tubes, and to satisfy the mind of this great engineer as to the sta- 
bility and safety of the Britannia and Conway tubular bridges. He edited an 
edition of " Tredgold on Cast Iron," to which he added a second volume, giving 
an account of his own experiments and discoveries, published b}' Weale, 1846. 
The title of the second volume is, " Experimental Researches on the Strength 
and other Properties of Cast Iron, with the development of New Principles, calcu- 
lations deduced from them, and inquiries applicable to Rigid and Tenacious Bodies 
generally." 

The most novel and important conclusions here given are as follows : 

Tlie strengths of long pillars of cast iron, wrought iron, cast steel, and 
Dantzic oak, of the same dimensions, are in proportion to the numbers 1,000, 
1,745, 2,518, 109. Cast iron is not reduced in strength when its temperature is 
raised to 600°. 

The sets, in cast-iron beams, vary nearly as the square of the force of deflec- 
tion ; hence any force, however small, will injure the elasticity of cast iron. 
The strength in tons of beams approaching the best form is measured by the 
formula 2.166ad-^], where a= area of section of bottom flange in the middle, 
d= the depth in inches of the beam, and Z= the distance in feet. 

A general investigation of the position of the neutral line is given on the 
principle that the forces of extension and compression of a particle vary as any 
function of its distance from the neutral line. This includes every hypothesis 
which has been proposed in order to compute the strength of material bodies 
subjected to strains. 

BIETH A^B EDUCATION. 

As I have already stated, Mr. Hodgkinson was born at Anderton, Cheshire, 
in the year 1789. His father, a respectable farmer, died of fever when his son 
Eaton was about six years of age, leaving Mrs. Hodgkinson with two daughters 
and a son. On liis fatlier's decease his raotlier determined to continue the farm ; and 
by industry, thriftiness, and business-like habits she was enabled to educate her 
children respectably, and to send her son to the Grammar School of Northwich. 
At this school he received the rudiments of a classical education, as he studied 
the Latin, Greek, and Hebrew languages under the immediate supervision of 
the head master, Mr. Littler. This was done to meet the wish of his uncle, the 
Rev. Henry Hodgkinson, rector of Aberfield, Berkshire, who was ver^'- anxious 
that his nephew should be educated with a view of going to Oxford or Cam- 
bridge, to prepare for the church. The desire of his uncle was, for a time, grati- 
fied, and the hope was strongl}- indulged that one day Eaton Hodgkinson would 
be a student of one of the universities ; hence the study of classics in his early 
youth was considered indispensable, although it was not exactly in conformity 
with his tastes and habits of thought, as at an early age he was naturally more 
inclined to the study of mathematics than of languages. 



MEMOIR OF EATON HODGKIXSON. 205 

To the severe treatment wliicli lie here suffered, his cousin, ]\rrs. Thompson, 
attriljutes the nervous tremor of his hancls and speech which continued with him 
throuo-li life, and was a serious impediment to his success. The Rev. Mr. Littler 
was a very severe disciplinarian, and if a boy could not learn he tried to flog it 
into him; and younijf Hodi^'kinson, owing- to his inaptitude for languages, having 
received a sound thrashing for not having learned his lessons perfectly, was 
removed from the grannnar school and placed in a private school in Northwich 
of far less pretensions, but more in unison with his aspirations. 

This private school, to which he w'as removed because he did not show a 
decided taste for the study of languages, was conducted by Mr. Shaw, a gen- 
tleman of superior mathematical attainments, and possessing great tact in teach- 
ing and in the general management of boys. It was at this school that Mr. 
llodgkinson finished his youthful education. He obtained a good degree among 
his school-fellows, and a distinguished position in the afiections of his master. 
The instructions of Mr. Shaw in mathematical subjects were fully appreciated 
by Hodgkinson, and consequently he made rapid advances in the various studies 
to which his attention was directed. Here he laid the foundation of that math- 
ematical knowledge which he afterwards applied with singular success to the 
extension and development of the theory and practice of the strength of mate- 
rials. The bias of Mr. Hodgkinson's niinjl at this period, and the position in 
which his mother was left, seemed to require a reconsideration of his future. Ho 
was now growing in stature as well as in knowledge, and his mother found him 
very useful to her in the outdoor work on the farm ; therefore it was deemed 
desirable to abandon the idea, once strongly entertained, of prosecuting her son's 
education with a view of entering the church, and to allow him to devote his 
attention and energies to the skilful management of farming. 

Mr. Hodgkinson therefore gave up all thoughts of the church, and Latin, 
Greek, and Hebrew were changed for more congenial subjects of study. He 
commenced at once his career as a Cheshire farmer ; but although he felt it a 
duty to assist his dear mother, and meet her wishes to the best of his ability, 
still he made Imt little progress in his new vocation. Farming, which had been 
thrust upon him by sheer necessit}', was not suited to his genius ; but he pur- 
sued it for a time as a paramount duty, from which his conscientious devoted- 
ness to his mother and sisters would not allow him to escape. The seeds of 
pin-e and mixed science, which had been -thrown broadcast into his youthful 
mind by Mr. Shaw, were now beginning to germinate, and to rise from their 
latent state into full and sensible existence, creating, as tlu\v advanced to matu- 
rity, new wants and fresh desires, which could not be gratiliedby farming or the 
society of a Cheshire village. The fruit thus developed at the viHage school 
indicated, with unerring certainty, a different direction from Cheshire farming or 
the church. His mother saw this, and she was ready to bend to circumstances 
whicli she could not successfully resist. Hence he persuaded her to give up her 
farm in Cheshire, and embark her small capital in a pawnbroking business at 
Sal ford, Manchester. Their friends advised this step, as the best to promote 
the interests of the family and satisfy, the thirst of Mr. Hodgkinson for scientific 
kiunvledge and society. The family, therefore, moved from Great lUidworth, 
Clieshire, to Salford, Manchester, in the year ISll, when Mr. Hodgkinson was 
about 22 years of age. This step was the turning-point of his career, and but 
for this in all probability he would have past a life of inglorious ease in a Che- 
shire village, unknown as a cultivator of matliematical and physical science. 

His residence in Manchester was soon productive of iuqK)rtant consequences; 
his habits of thought became tixed, and the line of scientilic inquiry in which ho 
was to advance was not long left indeterminate. ^lauchester at tliis period was 
in its youthful vigor; it contained n)en of great intellectual endowments, each 
anxious to distinguish himself in some department of useful knowledge; among 
these the" names of Dalton, Henry, and several others stand out pre-eminent. 



206 MEMOIR OF EATON HODGKINSON. 

The businoss, under tlie control and management of Mrs. Hodgldnson^ assisted 
L^^ lier son and daughter, was succcssfuL 

Mr. Hcrdglvinson's spare moments from business were now entirely devoted to 
reading any standard works on science which he could procure. The works of 
Simpson, Emerson, and Dealtry contributed greatly to his knowledge. He read 
these authors with earnestness and fidelity, and was wholly indebted to them for 
his knowledge of the higher departments of matliematical research. Many of the 
self-taught men of the last and the lieginning of the present century have 
expressed their obligations to Thomas Simpson and William Emerson. Their 
works, whatever prejudice may think or say to the contrar^^, were the best stand- 
ard works of the age ; and it may be aflirmed that the scientific literature of 
the eighteenth century is accurately and faithfully reflected from the pages of 
the weaver of Market Bosworth, Thomas Simpson, and the Hurworth village 
schoolmaster, Willianr Emerson. These humble but highly gifted men were more 
catholic in their writings than are the authors of the present age. They wrote 
to instruct the mass of mankind, but the writers in these days labor for a special 
purpose, which is limited in its operation : they write only to supply the daily 
routine of the school, without casting a single thought beyond its boundary. 

The late Rev. Robert Murphy, a Cambridge mathematician of distinguished 
eminence, speaks of Thomas Simpson as an analysist of first^ate genius. (See 
" Murphy's Equations.") M. Clairaut, Avhen in England, paid Simpson a visit 
at Woolwich, in order to compare his own investigations on the motion of the 
moon's apogee with the investigations of Simpson on the same subject. This fact 
alone shows the high position in which Simj)son stood in the estimation of the most 
eminent mathematicians of Europe. 

In consequence of his ardent love for scientific pursuits, Mr. Hodgkinson 
became acquainted with the most gifted men then living in JManchester. Dr 
Dalton, Holme, Henry, Ewart, Sibson, Johns, Fairbairn, were among the scien- 
tific friends with whom he could freely converse on suVsjects which possessed a 
mutual interest. In his mathematical reading he sought and obtained the help 
of Dr. Dalton, who was then a private teacher of mathematics in Manchester. 
He became one of Dalton's pupils, and read with him the works of Lagrange, 
Laplace, Euler, and Bernoulli, whose writings were now engaging the attention 
of the best and foremost mathematicians of England. These authors had been 
instrumental in producing a great change in the mathematical sciences at Cam- 
l)ridge ; their investigations were models of elegant algebraical demonstration, 
both with regard to symmetry of notation and subject-matter of inquiry. The 
friendship of Dalton and Hodgkinson, cemented by genial minds and kindred 
pursuits, continued uninterruptedly till the death of Dalton. Though each of 
these men had his distinctive field of labor, yet each could hold converse with 
the other on their respective researches, and Mr. Hodgkinson entertained through 
life a profound respectfor the high cjiaracter and great chemical discoveries of his 
friend. The extent of his mathematical reading at this period may be estimated 
by referring to his paper entitled " On the Transverse Strain and Strength of 
Jilaterials," printed in the fourth volume of this society's memou's. 

HIS CHARACTER. 

The late Professor Hodgkinson, like a true philosopher, was satisfied with a 
small but adequate competency, and, retiring from business at an early period, 
he devoted a long life and rare mental gifts to the development of science. And 
it is a pleasing reflection that while many men very eminent in the history of 
science have had to wait a long time before their discoveries have been recog- 
nized and adopted, Mr. Hodgkinson had the unusual pleasure of seeing the 
fruits of his labors appreciated and applied to the construction of great prac- 
tical engineering enterprises. The youthful days of Mr. Hodgkinson were not 



MEMOIR OF EATON IIODGKINSON. 207 

marked by precocious talents and womlcrful acliievements ; still lie possessed, 
even in youth, a (piick peroejttion of tlie relations of abstract magnitudes, and 
manifested, like Xewton and Stephenson, a strong" propensity for making sun- 
dials. 

Manhood developed in him a profound intellect, a highly cultivated intelli- 
gence, unwearied perseverance, and a kind and an aftectionate heart. lie dis- 
charged every relation of life with fidelity, and has left behind him a name 
great in the annals of science, reflecting every manly virtue, and unsullied by 
any act of meanness. He was, however, very jealous of the products of his 
own mental labors, which he regarded as personal property, and was also equally 
just in the use of the mental property of other cultivators of science, as he 
would not appropriate the conclusions of any man without due acknowledgment 

If he did entertain any hostile feeling, it was against those who, as he con- 
ceived, were unscrupulous in their appropriation of the fruit of other men's 
brains. His sense of justice would not allow him to show the slightest sympa- 
thy with this class of offenders. 

"The efticiency of Mr. Hodgkinson's lectures at University College, and of his 
oral instruction generally, wass(jmewhat circumscribed by his hesitancy of speech. 
This peculiarity interfered with his usefulness as a speaker and teacher, and 
rendered his explanations of subjects, even those with which he was most familiar, 
somewhat tedious to the student. And it is perhaps one of the greatest evidences 
that can be recorded of the power of his mind, that he was thought worthy, in 
spite of his embarrassed address and slowness of sjieech, to be installed in a pro- 
fessorial chair in one of the leading scientific colleges of the kingdom. As a 
relaxation from severe mental toil, he cultivated a taste for general literature 
and the architecture of the middle ages. Of late years ho frequently travelled, 
both on the continent and in the British empire, to examine those stupendous 
cathedrals and other public buildings which adorn western Europe, and which 
testify to the good taste, piety, and intellectual culture of the age in which they 
were built. He was fond also of investigating the remains of antiquity. And, 
what is valued above all l)y a man of science, he enjoyed the friendship and 
esteem of his contemporaries, who were able to estimate his worth, ap})reciate his 
talents, and apply his discoveries to useful purposes. Tin; most eminent engineers 
of the age placed unboumled confidence in the results of his experiments, 
believing them to l)e faitlifnlly recorded and accurately reduced to meet the 
requirements of mathematical formulae. As a confirmation of this, it may be 
stated that the engineers' pocket and text-books of the present time are full of 
Hodgkinson's formulae for calculating the strength and deflection of pillars and 
beams. 

Mr. Hodgkinson was twice married, but without issue in each case. His first 
wife was Miss Catherine Johns, daughter of the respected Rev. William Johns, 
a distinguished memlu'r of this society, who contributed an interesting paper to 
its memoirs, entitled '' llemarks on the Use and Origin of Figurative Lan- 
guage," (vol. ii, new series.) His second wife was Miss llolditch, daughter of 
Henry Holditch, esq., captain in the Cheshire militia. This lady, who is now 
left to mourn her loss, devoted her powers to comfort and sustain her husband 
when his health and memory would not admit of his having recoiu'se to his favor- 
ite pursuits. Of kite his great mental jxtwers became prostrate, and his mem- 
or}' failed so much that it was ol)vious to his friends the time had arrived when 
his faculties required repose. In this state of mental lassitude the services of 
Mrs. Hodgkinson were of great value to him. It is not unusual with men 
whose mental powers have been overstrained by excitement and hard labor that 
the desire for intellectual activity does not cease when the physical power neces- 
sary to sustain it is feeble. Mr. Hodgkinson was the subject of this painful 
experience: the desire for mental activity continued unabated to the last ; and 
it was only a few months before his decease that he was engaged in aiTanging 



208 MEMOIR OF EATON HODGKINSON. 

bis papers, "with a view to publish them, so that they might be more accessible 
to engineers than they now are in the volmnes of learned societies. 

Mr. Hodgkinson's religious emotions were silent, devotional in the highest 
sense — not sectarian ; they were strictly confined to the channel between his 
Maker and his own soul. And in this way they were purified by the truth from 
heaven, bearing the precious fruit of meekness, charity, and implicit confidence 
in Him who is all and sustains all. His religion was the arbiter of his life, the 
judge of the many and important obligations between God, his fellow-man, and 
himself. His end was peaceful, and he has left a name marked by strict integ- 
rity, which will be well remembered in the walks of science for ages yet to 
come. 

Let us now pass on to notice more in detail the works of Mr. Hodgkinson, 
which have raised him to a good degree among his contemporaries, and Avill also 
be the introduction to future thinkers in the same field of labor which he suc- 
cessfully cultivated. 

''On\he Transverse Strain and Strength of Metals," (read March 22, 1822.) 

The objects aimed at in this paper are, as stated by the author, to unite, in a 
general formula, the commonly received theories in which all the fibres are con- 
ceived to be in a state of tension ; and next, to adapt the investigation to the 
more general case, where part of the fibres are extended and part compressed, 
and to seek experimentall}'^ for the laws that regulate both the extensions and 
compressions. The manner in which these objects have been sought and devel- 
oped is a model worthy of every commendation, of clear, sound, geometrical 
reasoning and refined artifice. And the data necessary to give practical effect 
to the various analytical formulae have been obtained from experiments, than 
which none have been recorded with greater fidelity and less contortion to meet 
the demands of particular theories. No painstaking or expense was considered 
too great to make the results of the experiments successful and trustworthy^, so 
that the engineer and philosopher alike could place implicit reliance upon them. 
In these experiments there is recorded, for the first time, an element which has 
furnished a theme for many animated discussions of late years among philoso- 
phers and practical engineers, and which became an important object of research 
in all Mr. Hodgkinson's subsequent experiments, viz., set, or the difference 
between the original position of a strained body and the position which it assumes 
when the strain is removed. 

Tins point, which is full of interest and important consequences to the prac- 
tical man, cannot now be discussed. On examination I believe that I shall be 
borne out in the statement that, notwithstanding the number of books which have 
been written during the last 30 years on the strength and strain of materials, 
some of a more ambitious kind, and others having the humbler object of Vjeing 
useful in communicating information to the artisan, still there is none from which 
a clearer and more satisfactory exposition of this subject can be gathered than 
from the paper above referred to by Mr. Hodgkinson, in the volume for 1822. 
The Tuscan philosopher, Galileo, has the merit of first propounding a theory of 
the strength of materials, and applying the unerring principles of geometry to 
the computation of the strength of beams of given dimensions. With Leibnitz 
oiiginated the idea of the force of extension of a fibre being proportional to its 
distance from the lower side of a bent beam. James Bernoulli first suggested 
the notion (for it never assumed any other shape in his mind) of a nattntl li)ic 
in the section of rupture. But to the late Professor Hodgkinson belonged ,the 
merit of giving practical effect, in this paper, to the happy suggestion of Ber- 
noulli, by showing, both theoretically and experimentally, the true method of 
determining, in the section of fracture, the exact position of the neutral line, and 
of calculating the strength of the beam. 

In order, then, to show more clearly the steps taken by Mr. Hodgkinson in 



MEMOIR OF EATON HODGKINSON". 



200 




lis. 2. 



the estaWishmcnt of sound practical views of tliis subject, it will be necessary 
to give a brief exposition, by reference to diagrams, of the history of the section 
of fracture. 

Every beam of material is ^'S-'^' 

supposed to be composed of an 
iudelinite number of parallel 
filaments in the direction of 
its length, and the breaking 
of the beam necessitates the 
breaking of each of the fila- 
ments of which it is composed. 
Suppose a beam AB, placed 
on the fulcnun OF, to be l)ro- 
ken at the sectitmODIEFL by 
the weights AV and iv, suspend- 
ed from the points G and H. 

The theory of Galileo assumes the beam to turn about the fulcrum CF, and 
each of the tilaments (mu) in the section of fi-acture OLD to sustain an equal 
force. This hypothesis implies the incompressibility and extensibility of tho 
material. Leibnitz, the great rival of Newton, assumed the beam to turn 
about the fulci'um CF, as did Galileo, but assumed, what experiment has con- 
finned, the force of each filament in the section of rupture to vary in proportion 
to its distance from the fulcrum CF. This theory implied the incompressi- 
bility and extensibilitj^ of the material. James Bernoulli, to whose labors 
science is under great and varied obligations, in reviewing the theories of Gali- 
leo and Leibnitz, felt convinced of their incorrectness, and that of course they 
could have no favorable response 
from the voice of nature. He as- 
sumed, or rather suggested, the 
beam (fig. 2) to turn about the line 
Nw, which is now commonly called 
the neutral line, and the filaments 
above Nw to be extended, and those 
below Nn to be compressed. Ho 
supposed, with Leibnitz, the force 
of each filament to be proportional 
to its distance from N«, the neutral 
line. -4 jg 

This theory clearly indicates the compressibility and extensibility of the 
material, and so far agrees with all recorded experience. ]3crnoulli never pushed 
this idea beyond a suggesticm, and it remained unfruitful in consequences till 
Mr. Hodgkinson, in this paper, followed it up, and fixed, for the first time, the 
exact position of the neutral line, and made it subservient to the computation of 
the strength of a beam of given dimensions. We can scarcely exaggerate the 
importance of this step, as it fonns the connecting link between the correct 
assumption of Leibnitz and the complete theory of the transverse strength of 
beam. Without the position of tlie neutral line, the section of fracture appeared 
dark and uncertain, and we now wonder that the determination of this line had 
escaped the ])enetration of Professor Barlow and others who had examined the 
subject. The oj)inions here expressed are founded upon the results obtained by 
reading the works of the best authors previous to 182:2. 

Dr. Robison, Playfair, Barlow, Dr. 0. Gregory, and Sir J. Leslie are suffi- 
ciently known in the walks of science to justify the assertion that their works on 
elementary sulijccts represent the tme state and progress of the knowle<lge of 
the strength and strain of materials. Playfair's " Outlines of Natural Philoso- 
14 s 




210 MEMOIR OF EATON HODGKINSON. 

pliy," a work of great merit and well adapted for the time in which it appeared, 
contains only tlie following paragraph on the subject of the neutral line : 

" But it is also said that a tube of metal has been found to support a greater 
transverse strain than a solid cylinder of the same diameter ; or that a cylinder, 
when bored in the direction of the axis and a considerable part taken away, was 
stronger than before." '' This must undoubtedly arise from a change taking 
place in the position of the fulcrum or hinge round which the fracture is made. 
In the case of a cylinder, and indeed of all solids, the fulcrum is not the mere 
outward edge, but a point in the interior, on the one side of which the fibres are 
elongated and on the other crushed together. The point, then, which serves as 
the fulcrum, will be found within the solid, at a greater or less distance, as the 
parts resist lengthening more than crushing. The consequence of this is that 
when the centre of gravity and the fulcrum are brought nearer to one another, 
the strength of the beam or bar is diminished. When the heart of a solid mass 
is cut out, as is supposed of the cylinder, the fulcrum, or the axis of the frac- 
ture, is perhaps kept nearer to the surface than when the whole is a solid mass. 
This, at least, seems to be the most probable account that can at present be 
given of a phenomenon not a little paradoxical and not yet sufficiently exam- 
ined." (See Playfair's " Outlines," vol. i, p. 153.) Professor Barlow, in his 
''Essay on the Strength and Stress .of Timber," published in 1817, at page 32, 
shows in an admirable manner the inaccurate views of Dr. Robison respecting 
the determination of the neutral line, but fails entirely to remedy the defect. 
Barlow proposes, what is equally ineffective, to fix the position of the neutral 
line, by supposing the moments of the extended fibres about the neutral axis to 
be equal to the moments of the compressed fibres about the same line." Sir J. 
Leslie, in his "Elements of Natural Philosophy," published in 1823, at page 
234, states that "in the case of a horizontal beam supported at both ends, but 
depressed by its own weight, the upper surface becomes concave and the under 
surface convex. The particles of tlie upper surface are therefore mutually con 
densed ; in a certain intermediate curve the particles are not affected longitud 
inally, though bent from their rectilineal position. This curve of neutral action 
may be assumed in the middle of the beam." Dr. 0. Gregory, in his *' Mechan- 
ics," published in 1826, at page 122, vol. i, states, in reference to the subject of 
the neutral line, " There is, moreover, the consideration that, when a beam 
deposited horizontally, or nearly so, is ruptured by a vertical pressure, a horizon- 
tal stratum, from end to end, is compressed, and the other poriion extended or 
stretched, the thin lamina between these two being regarded as a neutral axis. 
This, again, is a curious topic of inquiry." This author gives several theories 
of the strength of materials from Venturoli, not any one of which contains the 
correct determination of the neutral line. From these quotations of the best 
informed writers, are we not justified in the inference that to the late Professor 
Htxlgkinson belonged the merit of first accurately conceiving the true mechan- 
ical principle by which the position of the neutral line in the section of fracture 
could be determined? He did this by equating the forces of extension with the 
forces of compression — a method which is now universally adopted in comput- 
ing the strength of beams. This method of fixing the neutral line, like all 
new methods, advanced to its present position by slow degrees ; but, after many 
conflicts and discussions, the triumphant declaration of Professor Barlow, at the 
British Association of 1833, established this great principle, which was first con- 
ceived by Mr. Hodgkinson, who, single-handed, had maintained his position 
against the formidable powers of acknowledged authorities. Professor Barlow, 
in his report " On the Present State of Our Knowledge Eespecting the Strength 
of Materials," printed in the third volume of the reports of the British Associa- 
tion for the Advancement of Science, 1833, very justly alludes to this subject, 
and states as follows : " Mr. Hodgkinson, however, in a very ingenious paper 
read at the Manchester Philosophical Society in 1822, has pointed out an error 



MEMOIR OF EATON HODGKINSON. 211 

in my investigation, by my having assumed tlio momentum of the forces on each 
side of the neutral axis equal to each other, instead of the forces themselves. 
This paper did not come to my knowledge till the third edition of my essay was 
neaily jtrinted off, and the correction could not then be made.'' The liev. Dr. 
"Whewell, in his '' Anal^'tical Statics," refers to this paper, and gives the inves- 
tigation of the neutral line on the same principle as that adopted by Mr. Ilodg- 
kinson, who always maintained that "we could see no cause why it should 1)0 
rejected, especially since it seems to us to be every wliere consistent and just." 
(See ]\Ianchester Philosophical Society's Memoirs, vol. iv, p. 241.) It aj)pears 
that his friend. Dr. Dalton, took great interest in the deductions of this paper, 
and discussed them freely with huu as he proceeded with his experiments, which 
\\ ill ever be regarded as marking an epoch in the subject of the strength oi mute- 
rials. Indeed the theoretical investigations of this paper, though new and 
important, form only a small portion of its merits. The experiments record(;d 
in it established the laws, '' that the extensions of the fibres of a bent beam were 
proportional to the forces during the early stages of flexure ; but as the exten- 
sions arrived nearer to fracture they increased faster than the forces," and, '' that 
so long as the forces are moderate and are applied in the direction of the fibres, 
the compressions will be as the forces ; but when the beam becomes bent the 
fibres, being then crushed, ofter a feeble resistance to the force." These results 
W'ere obtained direct from the unerring voice of nature. The first of these laws 
was announced by Dr, Robison, as a general law of nature, on the simple 
authority of a few experiments on the slips of gum caoutchouc and the juice of 
the berries of the white bryony, of which a single grain will draw to a thread 
two feet long, and again return to a perfectly round sphere. (See " Manchester 
Memoirs," vol. iv, p. 252.) 

'• On the Forms of the Catenary in Suspension Bridges," (read Februarv 8, 
1828, vol. V.) 

The chain bridge at Broughton, Manchester, which broke down by a troop of 
soldiers marching over it, and the celebrated Menai suspension bridge, built by 
Telford, had stimulated inquiries respecting the best form of such structures. 
These inquiries, naturally- enough, led to a reconsideration of the catenary , a curve 
the properties of which, under given conditions, were first discovered by James 
Bernoulli. (See Leslie's '' Geometry of Curved Lines.") 

In this paper a great degree of generality is given to the catenarian curve. 
After the known j)roperties of the common catenary are clearly investigated, 
the fonnulic are then applied with great ability to determine the form of susj)en- 
sion bridges when the iceight of catenarian chain , the weight of the roadwai/, and 
the ivcigJit of tlte suspension rods axa taken into account. The introduction of 
these complex, though necessary, elements into the (piestion led to the forma- 
tion of the following difficult and comprehensive differential equation: 
adx 
'dy 

where ar, y are the cuiTcnt co-ordinates of a point in the curve, and z the length 
of the curve from this point to the lowest point. The explanation of the con- 
stants a, &, c, e is as follows : 

a=the tension of the curve at its lowest point. 

?;=thc weight of a unit of length of the curve. 

c=thc weight of a unit of length in the roadway, which is supposed to bo 
divjded transversely into separate parts, and may include any weight uni- 
formly distributed over it, with that of the suspension rods below the 
horizontal line. 

C=the weight of a imit of vertical surface in the suspeiuling rods, the rods 
being here supposed to be uniformly distributed, and indefinitely near to 
one another, atul therefore reckoned as a uniform surface. 



r 

'-=.lz-\-cy^c\xdg .... (A,) 



212 MEMOIR OF EATON HODGKINSON. 

This differential equation, uuder given conditions of the constants, is treated 
in thip pa]jer in a very able manner, showing great command over the resources 
of modern analysis, and facility in the use of the varied artifices employed in 
the integration of differential equations. The results arrived at have been referred 
to by the ablest writers of the age, Dr. Whewell and the Rev. Canon Mose- 
lev — by the former in his '^ Analytical Statics/' where the solution of equation 
(A,) as given by Mr. Hodglvinson, occupies a distinguished place ; by the latter 
in his " Engineering and Architecture," in which the labors of our late friend 
are honorably mentioned : 

'' This problem ap]3ears first to have been investigated by Mr. Hodgkinson in 
the fifth volume of the ' Manchester Memoirs ;'• his investigation extends to tho 
case in which the influence of the weights of the suspending rods is included." 
After such testimony it would be presumption on my part to enter more into detail 
on thispaper. To a modern student, however, the notation and procedure adopted 
mav possibly contrast unfavorably with the notation and procedure which charac- 
terize the elementary works of the present day. To such student, if there be 
any, I would suggest that in forming an opinion on a paper like this, written 
more than 30 years ago, it would be inifair to exclude tlie comparison of the state 
of mathematical and physical science at that period with the present. It must 
be remembered that Lord Brougham and his coadjutors in a great work have 
done much to popularize and spread amongst their countrymen a knowledge of 
the arts and sciences. These interesting subjects can now be read as they have 
come from the hands of Euler, Lagrange, and Laplace, by means of cheap pub- 
lications, which are within the reach of the humblest artisan. In consequence 
of this, it is not high praise to state that questions in mathematics which could 
have been accomplished with difhculty 30 years ago can now be readily solved 
liy the present methods, which are now extensively known amongst the youth 
of all ranks in society through the warming stimulant of competitive examina- 
tions. In this statement I am anxious not to be misunderstood, and to guard 
against giving an opinion as to the question " Has mathematical power increased 
in the degree commensurate with the increase of mathematical learning f This 
will form a nice question for the future historian of the inductive sciences to 
detennine. I may, however, express my views on this debatable question so 
far as to say that 1 have but little confidence in the products of unnatural growth 
of any kind. 

There is a very marked difference in the mathematics of this and his former 
paper " On the Strength of Materials;" The great battle between the dots and 
the cVs had l)een fought at Cambridge University wdtli earnestness on both sides, 
and, chiefly through the invincible courage and inexhaustible armory of Wood- 
house, Peacock, Babbage, and Herschel, the d'S of Leibnitz wrested the victory 
from the dots of Newton. The effects of this victory, which has produced a 
great change in the mathematical literature of this country, are clearly seen in 
this paper, the principles investigated in which are applied to the numerical 
computation of the strength and strains of the Menai and Broughton suspension 
bridges. 

"Theoretical and Experimental Researches to ascertain the Strength and 
best Fonns of Iron Beams," (read April 2, 1830.) 

Whether we consider the theoretical exposition of the section of fracture, or 
the faithfully recorded experiments and their practical dbductions, we must 
regard this paper as the most valuable and original contribution to the history 
of the strengjih of materials which this century can boast. There is mo work in 
our language on the same subject which contains sounder theoretical views, and 
there is none which can be more practical than it has been to meet the demands 
of the engineers and the architect. From the theoretical expositions here given 
of the neutral line, the experiments to determine the strongest beam were devised 
and successfully carried out. 



MEMOIR OF EATON HODGKINSON. 213 

The result was the discovory of the cclebmted '' Ilodg'kinson's Beam," that 
is, the strongest beam which can be made from a given weight of material 
and a given length and depth of beam. George Stephenson, who was at this 
time chief engineer to the Manchester and Liverpool Railway Company, took 
great interest in these experiments, and he was frequently present when they 
were made. Several pages are devoted again to tlie suWject of the neutral 
line, indicating, from tlie manner of its discussion, that the subject was not at 
this time clearly fixed in the minds of the foremost investigators ; and no one can 
read these pages, and the views of Professor Barlow, without feeling convinced 
that the learned professor has scarcely done full justice to Mr. Hodgkinson in 
reference to the fixing of the neutral line in the section of fracture. The state- 
ment of Professor Barlow, in his report to the British Association, and in his 
essay " On the Strength of Materials," would lead to the conclusion that Mr. 
Hodgkinson had only rectified a small error into which he. Barlow, had inad- 
vertently fallen. This is not a complete statement. Mr. Hodgkinson did much 
more than correct a slight error in an adopted theory ; he showed the fallacy of 
the theory which it aj)i)ears Professor Barlow had olitained from M. Duleau, 
a distinguished French writer. There can be no doubt that Mr. Hodgkinson 
was the first to give the correct theory of fixing mathematically the jjosition of 
the neutral line. ]\Ir. Ilodgkinson's paper was published in 1822, and we find, 
in 1824, Dr. Whewell, in his '' j\[echauics," stating, " I woidd gladly have given 
a section on the strength and fracture of beams had there l»een any mode of 
considering the sul>ject which combined simplicity with a correspondence to facts. 
The common theory, which supposes the material incapable of com])ression, is 
manifestly and completely false ; and though Mr. Barlow's experiments and 
investigations give us much information, thej' do not appear to lead to any con- 
clusions sufficiently general and simple to authorize us to present the subject as 
an elementary one." (See Preface, page xii, Whewell's " JNlechanics," 1824.) 
It is obvious that the learned professor had not seen Mr. Hodgkinson's paper at 
this time, or he would have given, without doubt, in this place the same chapter 
which he published in his " Analytical Statics" in 1833.* 

The first series of experiments in this paper show that in cast iron the exten- 
sions and compressions from equal forces are nearly equal. Tredgold asserted 
that the same force which destroyed the elasticity of a body by tension would 
destroy it bj' compression. The next two experiments disprove this assertion, 
and show that the resistance to compression in cast iron is greater than to exten- 
sion. '^J'his discovery is important, and modified considerably the best con- 
structed cast-iron beams of this period. The succeeding experiments, which are 
many and carefully recorded, were devised for the purpose of extending the con- 
sequences of this practical discovery. And I shall liere avail myself of the 
Ptev. Canon Moseley's concise and able exposition of the experiments and reason- 
ings of Mr. Hodgkinson by which he established the best form of cast-iron beam: 
" Since the extension and the compression of the material are the greatest at 
those points which are most distant from the neutral axis of the section, it is evi- 
dent that the material cannot be in the state bordering upon rupture at every 
point of the section at the same instant, unless all the material of the com- 
pressed side be collected at the same distance from the neutral axis, and like- 
wise all the material of the extended side, or unless the material of the extended 
side and the material of the conq)ressed side be respectively collected into two 
geometrical lines parallel to the neutral axis — a distribution manifestly impossi- 
ble, since it would ])roduce an entire separation of the two sides of the beam. 

''The nearest i)racticable ai)i)roach to this form of s((ction is that represented 
in the acconi[)anying figure, where the material is shown c(dlected in two thin 

* I have Dr. Whewell's authority, in a letter which I received from him a few days ago, 
in stating that he had not scon Mr. Ilodgkiusoa's paper when ho wrote his " Mechauics" of 
1624. 



214 



MEMOIR OF EATON HODGKINSON. 



but wide flanjres, but Tinited by a narrow rib. That which constitutes the 
strena^th of tlie beam being the resistance of its material to compression on the 
one side of its neutral axis and its resistance to extension on the other side, it is 



Ficf^^. 



rJ 



evidently a second condition of the strongest form of any 
given section, that "phen the beam is about to break across 
that section by extension on the one side, it may be about to 
break by compression on the other. So long, therefore, as 
the distribution of the material is not such as that the com- 
pressed and extended sides would yield together, the strongest 
form of section is not attained. Hence it is apparent that the 
strongest form of the section collects the greater quantity of 
__ .. the material on the compressed or the extended side of the 

= ^ ^/ ^^4 beam, according as the resistance of the material to compres- 
sion or to extension is the less. Where the material of the beam is cast iron, 
whose resistance to extension is greatly less than its resistance to compression, 
it is evident that the greater portion of the material must be collected on the 
external side. 

" Thus it follows, from the preceding condition and this, that the strongest form of 
section in a cast-iron beam is that by which the material is collected into two unequal 
flanges joined by a rib, the greater flange beiug on the extended side, and the 
proportion of this inequality of the flanges being just such as to make up for the 
inequality of the resistances of the material to rupture by extension and compres- 
sion respectively. Mr. Hodgkinson, to whom this suggestion is due, has directed 
a series of experiments to the determination of that proportion of the flanges by 
which the strongest form of section is obtained. 

" The details of these experiments are found in the following table : 



Number of ex- 


Ratio of the sectiou of 


Area of whole section in 


Strength per square inch 


periment. 


the flanges. 


square inches. 


of sectiou. 


1 


1— I 


2.82 


2368 


2 


1—2 


2.87 


2567 


3 


1—4 


3.02 


2737 


4 


1—4.5 


3.37 


3183 


5 


1—5.5 


5.0 


3346 


6 


1— (i.l 


G.4 


4075 • 



F'Sr. 



JLM 



'"1 



" In the first five experiments each beam broke by tearing asunder of the 
lower flange. The distribution by which both were about to yield together — 
that is, the strongest distribution — was not, therefore, up to that period reached. 
At length, however, in the last experiment, the beam yielded by the compression 

of the upper flange. In this experiment, 
therefore, the upper flange was the weakest ; 
in the one before it the lower flange was the 
weakest. For a form between the two, there- 
fore, tlie flanges \Cere of equal strength, to 
resist extension and compression respectively, 
and this was the strongest form of section. 
In this strongest form the lower flange had six 
times the material of the upper. It is repre- 
sented in the accompanying figure. In the best 
form of cast-iron beam or girder used before 
these experiments, there was never attained 
a strength of more than 2,885 pounds per 
square inch of section. There was, there- 
fore, by this fonn a gain of 1,190 pounds per square inch of the section, or of 
two-fifths the strength of the beam." (See Moseley's " Engineering and Ai'chi- 
tecture," art. 411.) 



.£'"'' 



yj./ /f/,//y/.../Ji./^ /. ,u//i/.. 



MEMOIR OF EATOX HODGKIXSON". 215 

The Rev. Canon Moselcy further observes on this point, " It is only in cast- 
iron beams that it is customary to seek an economy of the material in the stroim'th 
of the section of the beam ; the same principle of cconcjmy is surely, however, 
ap]ilicable to beams of wood." 

Tliis victory over the material foe is entirely Mr. Iloflgkiiison's own ; and, 
using- tlie languag'e of the president of the British Association at Manchester, 
1861, there is no one to divide the honor of this useful achievement with him. 
The Hodgkinson beam is really what its name would imply, as he originated the 
conception and pursued it with judgment and industry until the best form of 
beam was fully determined. This beam has been the pole star for engineers 
and builders during the last 20 years, a period in which construction of all kinds 
has been in great demand, and in which the ingenuity and skill of the constructor 
has been confronted with many and formidable difficulties. Railways, ship- 
building, and public works of various kinds have opened out new channels for 
the application of cast and wrought iron ; and when this material is placed in 
new and untried positions, it is no little point which is gained when its tensile 
and crushing strength is determined, and the best form investigated by which 
the safety of large structures is secured. This was the life-work of Professor 
Hodgkinson. 

It is a great thing, which no man of science lightly appreciates in these days 
of mental activity, for a man to point to a useful discover}^ and claim it as his 
own without a rival, to say to himself, (his own precious reward.) " 1 drew it 
foi'th from the dark chaos in which it had been entombed for ages to the light 
of day, and now I leave it as a legacy to my countrymen, trusting that the chance 
of calamities such as that which happened at Hartley Colliery, where 200 men 
lost their lives by the breaking of a cast-iron beam, may be diminished, if not 
entirely obviated." In this paper Jlr. Hodgkinson acknowledges his deep 
obligations to the liberality of his friend Mr. Fairbairn, in procuring for him the 
beaTHS whereon to experiment. 

The (Contributions of Professor Hodgkinson to the " Reports" and " Sections" 
of the British Association were numerous and important. In proof of this it is 
only necessary to refer to the opening address of the president, Professor Sedg- 
wick, at the meeting at Edinburgh in 1834 : " The association may claim some 
credit for having brought into general notice the ingenious investigations of Mr. 
Hodgkinson of Manchester." 

In the Report of 1833 there are two papers by Mr, Hodgkinson: 

1. '^ On the Effect of Impact of Beams." 

2. " On the Direct Strength of Cast Iron." 

In the Report of the British Association of 1834, we find an extended inquiry 
into the collision of imperlectly elastic bodies. After alluding to Newton's labors, 
as recorded in the ♦' Principia,'^ Mr. Hodgkinson proceeds to describe the methods 
by which his exi)eriments were made, and derives from them the following non- 
elusions : 

1. All rigid bodies are possessed of some degree of elasticity, and among 
bodies of the same nature the hardest are generally the most elastic. 

2. There are no perfectly hard inelastic bodies, as assumed by the early and 
some of the modern waiters on mechanics. 

3. The elasticity, as measured by the velocity of recoil divided by the velocity 
of imi)act, is a ratio which (though it decreases as the velocity increases) is 
nearly constant when the same rigid bcxlies are struck together with considerably 
different velocities. 

4. The elasticity, as defined in 3, is the same whether the impinging bodies 
be great or small. 

5. The elasticity is the same, whatever be the relative weights of the imj)ing- 
ing bodies. 

6. On impacts between bodies differing very nmcli in hardness, the elasticity 
with which they separate is nearly that of the softer body. 



216 MEMOIR OF EATON HODGKINSON. 

7. In impacts between bodies whose hardness differs in any degree, the result- 
ing elasticity is made up of the elasticities of both, each contributing a part of 
its own elasticity in proportion to its relative softness or compressibility. 

1'he following rule, given by Mr. Hodgkinson, agrees remarkably well with 
the results of experiments : 

Let £ =the elasticity of A) ,, -j-.*,.,. . .- 

^/_ u -^ B ( ^^ determined by A strikmg agamst A, &c. 

w =modulus of elasticity of A ) as determined by extending the material 
'in':= . " B ) in the ordinary way. 

Then the elasticity of A against B=^ — ptf — 
•^ * m' + m 

This paper concludes with a table of elasticities of 60 various substances used 
in the construction of. buildings, &c. 

The Fifth Report of the British Association contains a paper on the " Impact 
of Beams." * 

The author has deduced from the experiments the following laws : 

1. If different bodies of equal weight, but diflfering considerably in hardness 
and elastic force, be made to strike horizontally with the same velocity against 
the middle of a heavy beam supported at its ends, all the bodies will recoil with 
velocities equal to one another. 

2. If, as before, a beam be struck horizontally by bodies of the same weight, 
but different in hardness and elastic force, the deflection of the beam will be the 
same, whichever body be used. 

3. The quantity of recoil in a body, after striking against a beam as above, is 
nearly equal to what would arise from the full varying pressure of a perfectly 
elastic beam as it recovered its form after deflection. 

4. The effects of bodies of different natures striking against a hard, flexible 
beam seem to be independent of the elasticities of the bodies, and may be cal- 
culated, with trifling error, on a supposition that they are inelastic. 

5. The power of a uniform beam to resist a blow given horizontally is the 
same in whatever part it is struck. 

6. The power of a heavy uniform beam to resist a horizontal impact is to the 
power of a very light one as half the weight of the beam, added to the weight 
of the striking body, is to the weight of the striking body alone. 

7. The power of a uniform beam to resist fracture from a light body falling 
upon it (the strength and flexibility of the beam being the same) is greater 
as its weight increases, and greatest when' the weight of half the beam, added 
to that of the striking body, is nearly equal to one-third of the weight which 
wckild break the beam by pressure. 

There can be but one opinion as to the importance of these deductions, direct 
from the voice of nature, made, as they were, at a time when such an appeal was 
by no means common. 

There are several interesting problems on impact, of a high mathematical 
character, solved in this paper. In these inquiries Mr. Hodgkinson is very 
particular in acknowledging his many obligations to his friend Mr. Fairbairn, 
engineer, of Manchester, to whose labors and liberality practical science is deeply 
indebted. 

We now pass on to notice his contributions to the transactions of the Eoyal 
Society. 

In the Philosophical Transactions for 1840 there is an extensive inquiry by Mr. 
Hodgkinson, " On the Strength of Pillars of Cast Iron and other Materials." 

The object of this inquiry is to suppl}?^ a desideratum in practical mechanics, 
which had been pointed out by Dr. Eobison and Professor Barlow. In order 
to accomplish this it was necessary to institute a series of expensive experiments 
more varied and extensive than any which had hitherto been made public. The 



MEMOIR OF EATON HODGKINSON. 217 

subject was mentionedto 'Mr. Fuiii»airn, wlio at once, with liis cliaracterisac liber- 
ality, supplied his friend witli ample means for investigatin;:^ experimenlally the 
strength of cast-iron pillars. For this paper the council for the Roya Society 
•awarded Mr. Hodgkinson the royal medal as a mark of their apprt 'jiation of 
his labors, the value and importance of which are confirmed by every ngineer's 
pocket-book in Europe during a period of 20 years. 

The inquiry is natm-ally divided into two parts, viz., long pillars and short 
pillars. 

LONG PILLARS. 

The first object was to supply the deficiencies of Euler's theory of the strength 
of pillars, if it should appear capable of being rendered practically useful, and if 
not, to endeavor to adai)t the experiments so as to lead to useful results. For 
this purpose solid cast-iron [)illars were broken, of various dimensions, from five 
feet to one inch in length, and from half an inch to three inches in diameter. In 
hollow pillars the length was increased to seven feet six inches, and the diameter 
to three inches and a half. 

With pillars c)f cast-iron J wrought iron, steel, and timher, whose length is upivarcls 
of 30 times tlieir diameter, the strength of those with flat ends is three times as 
great as those tvith rounded ends. 

Experiments were next made upon pillars with one end flat and the other end 
rounded, and the result is summed up in the following interesting and impor- 
tant law : 

With xyillars of tJie same diameter and length, both ends rounded, one end rounded 
and the other flat, and both ends flat, their strengths are as 1, 2, 3, respectively/. 

When the pillars were uniform, and the same shape at both ends, the fracture 
took place in the middle. This was not the case when one end was flat and the 
other rounded, as the fracture then took place at about one-third of the length 
from the rounded end. Hence, in these pillars, the metal may be economized 
by increasing the thickness in the point of fracture. 

' It follows, from Eulei-'s theory, that the strength of pillars to bear incipient 
flexure is directly as the fourth power of the diameter, and inversely as the square 
of the length. 

This incipient flexure was sought for by Mr. Hodgkinson without success, 
and he states his conviction that flexure commences with very small weights, 
such as could be of little use to load pillars ^vith in practice. Although Mr. 
iro<lgkinson was unable to find the point to which Euler's computations refer, 
still he has shown that Eider's formula is not widely from the truth when ajiplied 
to the breaking point of the pillar. From a great number of experiments Mr. 
Hodgkinson deduced the following formula for pillars with rounded ends: 
D := diameter of pillar in inches. 
L = length of jiillar iu feet. 
W = breaking-weight iu tons. 

])376 

Then, W = 14.9 j^ • 

The above rule applies to pillars tlie length of which is 15 times the diametei' 
and upwards. Perhaps not quite so low as 15 times the diameter in large pillars, 
as there is a reduction of the strength of such pillars, owing to tlie softness of 
the metal in large castings. This remark is significant, and gave rise to many 
interesting experiments at rortsmoiith dockyard by the royal commissioners, 
conducted by Colonel Sir Henry James. 

When the pillars are flat at the ends, the formula becomes 

T^3.55 

W=44.16^j-^-. 

This rule applies to pilhirs whose lengths vary from 30 to 121 times the diameter. 



218 MEMOIR OF EATON HODGKINSON. 



SHORT PILLARS. 

In order to estimate tlie breaking-strength of short pillars, Mr. Hodgkinson 
considered the strength of the pillar to be made up of two functions. 

1. To support the weight. 

2. To resist flexure. 

When the breaking-weight is small, as in long pillars with small diameters, 
then the strength of the pillar will be eiuployed in resisting flexure. When the 
breaking-weight is one-half the pressure required to crush the pillar, one-half of 
the strength may be considered available to resist flexure, and the other half to 
resist crushing. And when the breaking-weight is so great as in the case of short 
pillars, it may be considered that no part of the strength of the pillar is applied 
to resist flexure. These two effects may be separated in all pillars by dividing 
the pillar into two portions, one of which would support the weight without 
flexure, and the other would support the flexure without crushing, to the extent 
indicated by the preceding formulae. 

Let c = the force which would crush the pillar without flexure. 

Let P = the utmost pressure the pillar would bear without being weakened 
by crushing. 
b = breaking-weight as calculated by the preceding formulae. 
y = the actual breaking-weight of short pillars. 

. •.-^=^ where P=-^- 

The value of c is obtained from the formula 

c = (area of section) X 109,801 pounds. 

The reasoning by which the above formulae are established is well deserving 
of attention, and shows that the author was a worthy successor of Euler, Lagrange, 
and Poisson in this important branch of practical science. 

HOLLOW PILLARS OF CAST IROIT. 

Mr. Hodgkinson has shown that solid pillars with rounded ends and enlarged 
in the middle are stronger than uniform pillars of the same length and weight. 
This is proved to be the case in hollow pillars. The fonnulae for the breaking- 
weight of hollow pillars, as derived from experiment, are as follows : 
tv = breaking- weight in pounds. 
D = external diameter in inches. 
d ■= internal diameter in inches. 
L = length in feet. 
For pillars with rounded ends. 



w = 29074 
For pillars with flat ends, 

m;=99318 



L1-' 

J)3.55_^3.J 



The strength of short hollow pillars must be calculated in the same manner 
as the strength of short solid pillars. These formulae, derived from experiments 
made with great judgment and care, embody our present knowledge and prac- 
tice of cast-iron pillars for bearing-purposes. 

'' The Power of Cast-u'on Pillars to Resist Long-continued Pressure." 
Mr. Hodgkinson has recorded in this paper several very interesting experi- 
ments on this subject. Two beams, rounded at the ends, six feet long and one 
inch diameter, were cast of Low Moor iron, No. 3. The fii'st bore a weight of 



MEMOIR OF EATON HODGKIXSON. 219 

1,456 pounds during' a period of from five to six months, and then liroke. The 
second broke with l,oOO pounds hiid on immediately. From this experiment 
Mr. llodfjkinson inferred that time has hut litth', if any, inlhience on the 
streng-th of cast iron. 

This inference seems, at least to me, to be theoretically coiTect. If the weight 
laid on the beam and its molecular forces be statically equal, the ft)rces will 
remain in this state of equilibrium until the molecular forces are weakened by the 
influence of unequal temperature or other causes. Our knowledge, however, of 
this practical subject is indeed very limited. The inquiry would ami)ly repay 
any one who has the ability, opportunity, and means to pursue it. Mr. Ilawk- 
shaw has made some admira))le remarks on this subject in his evidence before 
the royal counnissioners in 1847. (See Report, page 296.) 

The opinion of experienced engineers appears to be that vibrations ])roduced 
by continual impact and change of temperature aflect the strength of iron to a 
g'reater extent than a continued strain, which preserves the molecules of the iron 
in the same fixed position. Mr. Rastrick, in his evidence before the commis- 
sioners, gives the result of an experivnent made l)y a friend, bearing on this ques- 
tion, at Pontypool Iron Works. He hung a bar of iron, an inch square, up by 
one end perpendicularly, and contrived a small hammer to be continually ham- 
mering it ; after a period of more than 12 months the bar of wrought iron 
drojiped in two. 

That the internal structure of iron becomes changed by continued vibrations 
is commonly believed by engineers of experience ; but in what way this change 
is produced, both in speciality and magnitude, does not appear to be very definite. 
One thing, however, seems clear, viz., that wrought iron is more atl'ected by 
vibrations than cast. The evidence given before the commissioners on this 
important question is very striking, and contains all the practical information 
whicli has been recorded or known on the subject. Mr. Fairbairn states '* that 
if you take any material whatever, and destroy its original form, and repeat the 
changes, it is only a question of time how long it will bo before it breaks." 

According to rny view, this statement from an engineer of so great experience 
should convince those whose duty leads them to the application of iron, timber, 
and stones to the erection of structures, the first characteristic of which is stabil- 
ity, of the existence and destructive nature of vibrations. Notwithstanding 
these views on the effect of continued vibrations, there are not wanting engineers 
of great eminence who think the subject of but little practical importance, how- 
ever interesting it may be in a scientific and ])hilosophical sense. 

The late Robert Stephenson refers to the beam of a Cornish engine, and 
states that it receives a shock 8 or 10 times a minute equal to about 55 tons, 
during a period of 20 ^-ears, without the slightest perceptible change in its struc- 
ture and strength. 

The connecting-rod of a locomotive engine is another illustration in point : 
" Oue I know," says Mr. Stephenson, " which has run .50,000 miles, and received 
a violent jar eight times per second, or 25,000,000 vibrations, and yet there is 
not the slightest appearance of changt^ in the strength of the connecting-rod." 

The same distinguished engineer says, with respect to the question of the 
effect of vibrations on materials, "as to the change being produced in wrought 
iron, which is a very popular and almost universal theory now, I have not known 
one single instance in which I have traced it to its origin, where the reasoning 
is not deficient in some important link." On the whole, Mr Stephenson attaches 
but little importance to the question of vibration in a i)racti(;al sense. 

^Ir. Brunei, in answer to the question whether the internal structure of an 
iron beam Ijecomes altered by a succession of slight blows at a low temperature, 
as in rails long used, railway axles, or springs of carriages, says, " I have turned 
my attention a good deal to this inquiry, and 1 have long acted on the assunqjtion 
that iron is so changed; but I must confess that I have doubts as to the fact. 



220 MEMOIR OF EATON HODGKINSON. 

And I believe that if the subject were thoroughly examined it would be found 
that the different appearances shown by iron when broken arise from the com- 
binations of the causes producing fracture as often as from any change in the 
texture of the material itself. This opinion was strengthened !)y various speci- 
mens of irons broken, some with a fibrous fracture by means of a slow heavy 
blow, and some with a crystalline fracture by means of a sharp, short blow. Mr. 
May refers to the case of a cast-iron beam of a steam engine, vibrating hundreds 
of thousands of times per annum, being as good at the end of 20 or 30 years as 
when first put up. In this case, though the strain has been in opposite directions, 
and constantly varying, still the vibrations have not weakened the beam. On 
the other hand he says, " I have seen a cast-iron gun absolutely broken across 
by many years' dropping pig-iron upon it." 

In order to facilitate the calculation of the strength of shoi-t pillars, Mr. 
Hodgkinson has given the crushing strength of a great variety of timbers used 
in practice. The above is but a hasty and imperfect glance at this important 
paper, which appeared at the time when the railway system was developing 
itself by means of the application of cast and wrought-iron pillars to the con- 
struction of bridges, &;c. No engineer who has in future to deal with this sub- 
ject must omit the reading of this paper. 

In the Philosophical Transactions for 1857 there is another paper by Mr. 
Hodgkinson on the strength of pillars. The object here is to confirm the con- 
clusions of the first paper by means of larger experiments, made by an appara- 
tus three times as great as the apparatus used on the former occasion. Having 
been unsuccessful in finding the weight producing incipient flexure, Mr. Hodg- 
kinson devoted his attention to finding the breaking-weight, the deflection, and 
decrement of length produced by the weight laid on the pillars. The pillars 
with both ends rounded broke in one place, in the middle ; but the j^iHars with 
both ends flat broke in three jDlaces — the middle and at each end. When one 
end was flat and the other rounded it broke at one-third the distance from the 
rounded end. 

The formulae in the fonner paper are here slightly corrected, as being more in 
accordance with the results of larger experiments. 

Thus, in pillars whose ends are flat and well bedded, the formula becomes 

"03.5 .73.5 

^1.63 

instead of 

J)3.55 fp.55 



to= 46.65 



Li.T 

as given in the first paper. 

It is a matter of observation long recorded, both by Mr. Hodgkinson and 
other experimentalists, that the metal in large castings is not uniform in density, 
the density diminishing from the outside of the casting to the centre. Hence it 
was justly inferred that the crushing, tensile, and transverse strength of large 
castings would vary, being the greatest towards the outside and less towards the 
centre. In cast-iron pillars of 2^ inches diameter, the crushing force varied from 
39 tons per square inch outside to 33^ tons per square inch centre. Mr. Hodg- 
kinson discovered that the difference in the strength between the outside and 
centre of large castings is much less than in small ones. Colonel Sir Henry 
James found that the central part of bars of iron planed was much weaker to 
bear transverse strain than liars of the same size. By jilaning out three-fourth 
inch bars from the centre of two-inch square and three-inch square bars, the 
central portion was little more than half the strength of that from an inch bar. 

The fall of the railway bridge over the river Dee at Chester, when several 
lives were lost, led Mr. Hodgkinson to investigate the position of the tension- 
rods, which were intended as auxiliary supports to the structure. The particu- 



MEMOIR OF EATON HODGKIXSON. 221 

lars of this inquiry have escaped my memory, but I well remember that Mr, 
Hodgkinsou showed, on the clearest i^eouietrical evidence, that the position of 
the tension-rods was not only no additional support to the stability of the bridge 
but positively aided its downfall. Tliis circumstance induced Mr. Ste])honson to 
reconsider the construction of the bridg-e, and devise a new arrangement for these 
auxiliary supports. It was at this time, and in consequence of the accident above 
alluded to, that Mr. Robert Stej)henson made the personal acquaintance of Mr. 
llodgkinson, the friend of his father, the man to whom he had steadily looked 
as his authority and guide in the application of iron to railway purposes. When, 
therefore, Mz. Stephenson was engaged in the novel construction of the Conway 
and Britannia tul3ular biidges, he requested the assistance of his friend Mr. 
Hodgkinson in fixing the best form and dimensions of tubes. The experiments 
which were devised and earned out by Mr. Hodgkinson with a view to answer 
the a1)ove questions are recorded in the report of the royal commissioners 
ap]>ointed to inquire into the application of iron to railway structures. 
Mr. Hodgkinson, by these experiments, sought — 

1. To ascertain how far the strain upon a square inch at the top and bottom 
of the tube would be afiected by changing the thickness of the metal, the other 
dimensions being the same. 

2. To ol)tain the strength of similar tubes. 

3. To find the strength of tubes of various forms of section in the middle, 
and to furnish means of judging of the proper proportions of the metal in the 
bottom, top, and sides of the tube. 

4. To ascertain the relative strength of uniform tubes to bear a weight in all 
parts of their length ; and whether tubes, tapering in thickness from the middle 
towards the ends, according to theory, would be equally strong in every part. 

5. To obtain the resistance of the tubes, previously tried vertically, to bear a 
side pressure, with an intention to ascertain the effect of the wind upon a tube. 

6. To ascertain the strength of small tubes of difierent forms of section to 
resist best a force of compression applied in the direction of their length. 

7. To ascertain the resistance of wrought-iron plates to a crushing force in 
the direction of their length. 

8. To determine the strength of tubes to sustain impact, with reference to 
riveting. 

9. To determine, by bodies let fall upon tubes, the probable effect, if any, of 
trains rusliing rapidly upon tubukir bridges, to produce resilience, or springing 
up at the ends. 

10. To determine the transverse strength of tubes stiflened in the top with 
cast iron, joined with wrought iron, to increase the resistance of the top to a 
crushing force. 

Tliese are important practical problems ; and when the issue is considered, viz.: 
the continued stability of the Conway and Britannia tubular bridges, tliey 
required for their solution great skill in the subtilities and artifices of mathe- 
matical and experimental science. The answers which Mr. Hodgkinson obtained 
to the abov(^ ])roblems were deenu'd by Mr. Stephenson to be so satisfactory as 
to enable him with confidence to build the tubular bridges.- 

A concise but clear exposition of these answers is given by Mr. E. Clark 
before the commissioners appointed to iiKpiire into the application of iron to ruil- 
way piu'poses. (See report, ]>age 3.59. ) 

It was impossible that such assistance in the execution of a novel design 
could be lightly esteemed or inad('([uate1y appreciated by the great engineer. 
Hence, in the history of these tubular bridges, where ]Mr. Stej)henson is anxious 
to record the merits of his assistants, he frankly acknowledges his deep obliga- 
tions to the mathematical philosopher "for devising onl carn/i>iff out a scries of 
experiments ivhich terminated in establishing the laics that regulate the strength of 
iuhidar structures, in a manner so satisfactory that I was enabled to proceed ivith 



222 MEMOIK OF EATON HODGKINSON. 

more confidence than I othenvise sJiouJd liave done." (See vol. i, p. 35, of the 
" Britannia and Conway Tubular Bridges/' by E. Clark, esq.) 

This declaration of Mr. Stephenson completely disarms all future praise or 
detraction with respect to the part which Mr. Hodgkinson took in the execution 
of the tubular bridg-es. It places him before the public in his right position as 
a most important contributor to the success of an enterprise Avhich will represent 
the engineering skill of the present time, and will be the admiration of future 
ages. E. Clark, esq., who superintended the building of the tubular bridges, 
speaks in the highest terms of the importance of Mr, Hodgkinson's labors in 
fixing the proper dimensions of the bridges. 

We are indebted to him also for nearly the whole of the mathematical calcu- 
lations in reducing the experiments which were made into a form fit for applica- 
tion to a large structure. But we are also indebted to Mr. Faii'bau'n for a great 
portion of the practical construction of the bridges. 

The answers given by Mr. Hodgkinson to his inquiries, and which rendered 
such signal service to the engineer in the execution of his novel design, are as 
follows : 

1. The value of ffj the strain upon a square inch at the top or bottom of the 
tube is constant in material of the same nature, while it varies from 19, 14, to 
7| tons when the thickness of metal varies from .525, .272, to .124 of an 
inch. The determination of ffJ is the chief obstacle to obtaining a formula for 
the computation of the strength of tubes of every fonn. 

The strength of the Conway tube was calculated to bear 1,084 tons when the 
value of ffJ was taken at 8 tons, and the deflection about 15^ inches in the 
middle. 

2. The strength of similar tubes was somewhat lower than the square of their 
linear dimensions, being about 1.9 power instead of the square. 

3. The tubes may be reduced in strength and thickness towards the ends, 
corresponding to the ratio indicated by theory, viz., that the strain at any point 
of the tube is proportional to the rectangle of the two parts into which that 
point divides the length of the tube. 

4. The power of the tube to resist a vertical strain is to its power to resist a 
strain on its side, as from the wind, as 26 to 15, nearly. 

5. The resistance of tubes to crushing follows the law of cast-iron pillars 
when the crushing force is not more than 8 tons per square inch. It appears, 
however, that cast iron was decreased in length double what wrought iron was 
by the same weight ; but the wrought iron sunk to any degree with a weight of 
12 tons per square inch, while cast iron required double the weight to produce 
the same eflFect. 

6. The power of plates to resist buckling varies nearly as the cube of the thick- 
ness. Mr. Clark refers to this property as being most useful in the construction 
of the tubular bridge . 

7. The tube bent by pressure had borne a deflection of five inches without 
serious inj my; but its riveting was destroyed by repeated impacts deflecting it 
through less than one inch. 

8. Resilience is perceptible, but very small. 

9. The introduction of cast iron on the top of the tube would be attended with 
advantage in resisting the force of compression. Practical objections, however, 
of a serious nature prevented Mr. Stephenson from availing himself of the power 
of cast iron to resist compression. He thought it advisable to increase the thick- 
ness of wrought iron to resist compression, rather than use a combination of 
wrought with cast iron. It may be stated that Mr. Stephenson has used cast 
iron, for the purpose recommended by Mr. Hodgkinson, with success in tubes of 
smaller dimensions than the Conway tubes. 

In 1847 Mr. Hodgkinson was appointed one of the commissioners to inquire 
into the application of iron to railw.ay structures ; and during the space of two 



MEMOIR OF EATON IIODGKINSON. 223 

years tlie wliole of his time and al)ilitics wore devoted to the subjcets of this 
inquiry. The exertions, both physical and mental, wliich he made at this period 
for the advancement of engineering science were so great as materially to 
affect his health and prostrate his powers. Immediately after the ])ublication of 
tlie commissioners' report in 1849, he sought the restoration of his exhausted 
faculties by a tour on the continent of Europe. 

His labors for this commission are published in the report, and comprise 114 
closely printed pages. The high importance of these labors may be, to some 
extent, inferred from the circumstance of the commissioners pointing them out 
for special notice, "Although we are aware that to point out the labors of indi- 
vidual members of the commission would be impossible, and tliat it may appear 
invidious to single out one for praise, we cannot resist the exju'ession of our 
thanks to ]Mr. Ilodgkinson for the zeal and intelligence with which he has car- 
ried out the remarkable series of experiments which are detailed in the appen- 
dix A to this Report, and which constitute a large proportion of thosQ which 
have been already described." (Seethe Commissioners' Report, page 15.) Such, 
then, was the estimate of the labors of Mr. Hodgkinson by Lord Wrottesley, 
Professor Willis, Colonel James, Mr. Ronnie, and Mr. Cubitt; and it has beeu 
amply confirmed by the engineering experience of the last 13 ^"ears. 

The objects for which Mr. Hodgkinson sought in this inquiry were — 

1. The determination of the longitudinal extensions and compressions of long 
bars of cast and wrought iron by weights varied by equal increments, up to that 
producing fracture. 

2. The establishment of general formulae connecting the longitudinal exten- 
sions, and compressions, and sets of cast iron with the forces producing them. 

3. To determine the deflection of horizontal bars produced by various trans- 
verse pressures, and to conqiare the effects with those produced by impacts. 

4. To determine general formulae connecting the transverse pressure, the 
deflection, and set remaining after the pressure was removed. 

If £ = elongation of a bar of cast iron one inch square and (?) inches long bj 
a weight iv, 

then 10 = 13934040 i —2907432000?-. 

If f?= compression of a bar of cast iron one inch square and [1] inches long I f 
a weight iv, 

then er= 12931560^—522979200 4- 
I r 

These formulae were derived from the mean results of four different kindb of 
cast iron. 

The mean tensile strength was found to be 15,711 })0unds per square inch, and 
the ultimate extension was 1-GOOth of the length of the bar. 

With respect to wrought iron, the extensions and compressions were found to 
be nearly proportional to the pressures producing them. 

The extension is proportional to the })ressiu-e up to about 12 tons per square 
inch ; after this the pressure is not proportional to the extension. The weight 
neces.sary to elongate a bar of wrought iron to double its length is 27,091,200 
pounds, which is usually called the modulus of elasticity. One striking and 
important fact was elicited by these experimental researches, viz., cast-iron bars 
are decreased in length double as much as wrought-iron bars by the same pres- 
sure ; but wrought-iron bars sink to any degree with little more than 12 tons' 
pressure per square inch of section, while cast-iron bars require three times the 
pressure to produce the same eflect. It appears, also, that the tensile force of 
cast iron depends but little upon the form of the soctio:;, exce])t so far as the 
fomi contributes to the better consolidati(jn of the casting when in a fluid state. 

The above results were obtained Hov the commissii>ners by the individual 



224 



MEMOIE OF EATON HODGKINSON. 



labors of Mr. Hodgkinson liimself, wlio alone is responsible for their accuracy, 
usefulness, and general adaptation to promote the ends of physical and engin- 
eering science ; but there were other important results obtained by other mem- 
Ders of the commission, to which it may not be deemed out of place to refer. 

The experiments at Portsmouth dockyard, conducted by Colonel Sir Henry 
James, and the discussion of the results by Professor Willis and Professor 
Stokes, were also the work of the commissioners. And it would be no easy task 
to over-estimate the value of these labors, both on account of the novel nature 
of the experiments and the mathematical deductions to which they conducted 
when placed in the hands of Professor Stokes. 

Colonel Sir Henry James and Captain Galton subjected cast-iron bars, placed 
between fixed supports, to 100,000 successive deflections, at the rate of four per 
minute, by means of a cam. When the deflections were one-third of the ulti- 
mate deflection, the bai:s were not weakened ; when, however, the deflections 
were one-half of the ultimate deflection, the bars were broken with less than 
900 depressions. 

Professor Hodgkinson subjected cast-iron bars, firmly fixed between supports, 
to 4,000 continued impacts. When the blow was such as to deflect the bars 
one-third of their ultimate deflection, they resisted the concussion of 4,000 
impacts \vithout injury ; but when the blow was such as to deflect the bars one- 
half of their ultimate deflection, no bar could resist 4,000 depressions. These 
results strikingly confirm each other. 

Colonel James and Captain Galton caused a weight equal to one-half the 
breaking Aveight of the cast-iron bar to be drawn backwards and forwards from 
one end of the bar to the other. The bar was not weakened by 96,000 transits 
of the weight. No perceptible effect was produced in wrought-iron bars by 
10,000 successive deflections, each of which was equal to that produced by half 
the breaking weight. 

Professor Hodgkinson notices the following results which he obtainied from his 
experiments on the impact of cast-iron bars : 

All cast-iron bars of the same sectional area require the same blow to break 
them in the middle. 

The deflections of wrought-iron bars produced by the striking ball were pro- 
portional to the velocity of impact ; but in cast-iron bars the deflections were 
greater than the proportion to the velocity of impact. 

The most striking and novel experiments, however, were those made by 
Colonel Sir Henry James and Captain Galton, at Portsmouth dockyard. These 
gentlemen constructed a large apparatus by which weights could be made to 
move over cast-iron beams placed horizontally between fixed supports, with 
velocities varying from to 30 miles per hour. These experiments developed 
the singi;lar fact, at variance with the impressions of the most eminent engineers, 
that a train passing over a bridge at a given speed will produce a greater deflection 
than that produced by the train being placed upon the bridge in a state of repose. 
This important fact was confirmed in all its entirety l)y the larger experiments 
made Ity the conmiissioncrs on the Ewell bridge, on the Epsom line, and the 
Godstone bridge, on the Southeastern line. 

Colonel James found that when a carriage was loaded with 1,120 pounds and 
placed at rest upon a cast-iron bar, it produced a deflection of six-tenths of an 
inch ; when, however, the carriage moved over the bar at the rate of 10 miles 
per hour, the deflection was increased to eight-tenths of an inch ; when the speed 
of the carriage was increased to 30 miles per hour the deflection was increased 
to one inch and a half, which is more than double the statical deflection. It 
follows from this that a much less weight will break a bar of cast iron when it 
moves over it at a great speed than if it be placed at rest upon the bar. The 
bars, when broken by a load passing over them, were fractured at points l)eyond 
their centres, often into four or five pieces, indicating the unusual strains to which 



MEMOIR OF EATON IIODGKINSON. 225 

tliey liacl been subject. From these unexpected results there is no appeal, how- 
ever mucli they may be at variance with the impressions of the most cfifted 
engineers. It now remains to connect these results with well-established 
mechanical laws, a problem of great difficulty, the solution of which has been 
accomplished by the labors of Professor Willis and Professor Stokes. (See 
" Preliminary Essav on the Effects produced bv causing Weights to travel over 
Elastic Bars/' by the Rev. Robert Willis, F. R. S., &c.) 

I\v neglecting the inertia of the bar, as being small in relation to the moving 
weight. Professor Stokes has shown that — 

D=s-i-i/vsy 

D=centval dynamical deflection of the bar, produced by the weight moving 
at the velocity V. 

S=central statical deflection produced by the same weight. 
Z:=the length of the bar in feet. 
Hence the dynamical deflection is double of the statical, when the velocity of 
the moving weight is -/^ times the length of the bar between the supports. 

These results were not readily accepted by practical men, as they had been 
accustomed to connect high velocities of the train with small deflections of the 
bridge over which it passed. 

The late Robert Stephenson, in his evidence before the commissioners, states 
that ho had seen the deflections less as the train passed over than when it was 
lYi repose. From the observations which he had made he felt quite satisfled upon 
the point, that no revision of the practical rules respecting the deflection of the 
bridges was necessary. ''You will sometimes find," he adds, ''an exceptional 
case occurs, if the engine happen to jump on the springs, which may, of course, 
accidentally occur : but if it be a mere question of velocity I do not think it 
increases the strain upon the girder. There ma}^ be a lateral strain backwards 
and forwards when the whole train comes into pla}' and causes a jerk." 

^Ir. Locke, after making many experiments with locomotives passing over 
bridges, arrives at the conclusion that there is but little diflerence in the deflec- 
tion between high velocities and low. '' If there be," he remarks, " three or 
four bad rails or joints upon the top of a bridge there is far more effect produced 
upon the bridge. A bad joint is more serious than 10 or 12 miles' increase or 
diminution of velocity." 

Mr. Ilawkshaw's opinion is, that there would l)e a greater deflection in a bridge 
by running a weight over it than by allowing the same weight to rest upon it, 
because there is always an iiTegnlarity in the surface of the rails, and the force 
of impact is thereby brought into activity. W. H. Barlow stood under a wooden 
viaduct while a heavy goods train passed over it. There was a slight deflection 
produced by the heavy train, but the express, with a much lighter engine, and 
moving at a greater speed, ])roduced a much worse effect. It seemed to pro- 
duce a wave through the bridge, as it ought to do from the ordinary principles 
of dynamics. This load was passing over the bridge in a very few second^:, and 
therefore the total deflection is jierformed by the Aveight in a few seconds; and 
it therefore becomes a kind of blow — the descent of a heavy weight — and the 
bridge has not time to accommodate itself to the deflections required of it. These 
deflections are propagated throughout the structure, and may prove wicecdingly 
dangerous and disagreeable. 

]\ir. Rastrick always considered that when a weight passed rapidly over a 
structure, tliere would be less deflection than if it were stationary. lie takes the 
exanij)le, for comparison, of a man skating upon ice, and states that if he remain 
stationary for a length of time he would soon go through the ice ; but he may 
Bkate over it without any danger of going through, because the ice has no timo 
to break. 

15 s 



226 MEMOIR OF EATON HODGKINSON. 

Mr. Brunei's impression was that where the rails are perfect the deflection is, 
as it ought to be, less with a weight passing rapidlj^ over it than when it rests 
upon it; '4iut the experiment is so diflicult to make, from the number of inter- 
fering causes, that perhaps my impression is still only prejudice rather than 
positive information." 

Mr, Cubitt, engineer of the Great Northem railway, could perceive no differ- 
ence in the deflection of a large girder between the weight being stationary upon 
it and passing over it at a great speed. The experiment was made upon a girder 
47 feet span, and a heavy locomotive engine, the deflection being a tenth of 
an inch 

The opinion of Mr. Charles Fox, engineer, is very decided on this point. He 
states positively that, if the rails have been carefully laid over the portion of the 
line resting upon the bridge, less deflection is caused in the girder by a load 
passing at a high speed than at a low one, and that there is less deflection with 
any rate of speed than when the weight is stationary. " I imagine this arises, 
in a great measure, from the short time there is to overcome the inertia of the 
mass ; of course the higher the velocity the less time is expended in the train 
passing over the bridge." 

My. Glynn, of Butterly Iron Works, Derbyshire, thinks that, if the strength 
of the beam were not great in proportion to the stress it had to sustain, the 
weight, being stationary upon it, would tend to deflect it permanently more than 
a weight passing rapidly over it. " This opinion is not formed from experience; 
experiments on the subject would be very desirable." 

This is the testimony, conflicting as it is, of the highest authorities in the 
.engineering profession respecting a most important part of their practice, viz : 
the permanent stability of structures over which thousands of people are being 
continually conve3'ed with rapid velocities. 

Perhaps ths simplest method to gain the conviction that the dynamical deflection 
of a structure is different from its statical deflection is to place a weight, capable 
of motion, and producing a sensible deflection, on the middle of a horizontal 
' flexible beam, between fixed supports. Let us now inquire what effect is pro- 
duced by moving the weight to a point very near to its original position. It is 
evident that the weight, being at the lowest point of the beam, cannot move 
from this position without the application of a force. The effect of this force upon 
the moving weight and flexible beam will, of course, depend upon its magnitude 
and direction. If the direction of the force be vertical, whatever may be its 
magnitude, it will not produce any horizontal motion in the moving weight. 
If the direction of the force, however, is not vertical, the case is very different. 

The movable weight, abandoned to the influence of gravity and the reaction 
of the beam, will have a complex, vertical, and horizontal motion, while the 
flexible beam will be, from the same cause, put into a state of periodical oscilla- 
tions, the number and amplitude of which will depend upon the moving forces 




and inertia of the beam. Let A B be the fixed supports of the beam, A D Bits 
position after the weight has been placed upon it. If the point E in the beam 
is sufficiently near to D, then the line D E may be considered straight ; produce 
D E to meet the horizontal line A B in F, and put the angle D F B = ^. Let 
the force H, applied to move the weight from D to E upon the inclined plane 
D E, be in the direction of D E. It is evident that the force H can be decomposed 
into two, viz., II sin acting vertically ;ap\\"ards, and H cos acting horizontally 



MEMOIR' OF EATON HODGKIXSOX. 227 

from D to E. If we examine the effect of these two decomposed forces it will 
be f'Miiul that the force H cos 0, which is nearly equal to II, since the angle 
is small, will produce an elongation in the beam A D, and a compression in the 
beam D B. When the elongation of A D is greater than the compression of 
D 13, tlie beam between the supports is increased in length ; hence the middle jioint 
I), where the weight is placed, is moved vertically as well as horizontally into 
another position. From this force alone the beam would become a wreck if the 
force II, or the velocity with which the weight is moved from 1) to E, was suffi- 
ciently large ; but, to prevent this catastrophe, the vertical (-omponent force II 
sin dimiiiishes the reaction of the weight and beam. The vertical force of the 
weight, instead of being the weight alone, is now diminished by II sin 0, and is 
become W — II sin 0, where W is the weight of the movalde body. The effect 
then of the vertical component is directly opposite to that of the horizontal com- 
ponent ; and it is evident that under certain conditions either one or the other of 
these two forces may prevail. Hence the indications of theory are in harmony 
with the observations of engineers, and fully justify the conflicting evidence 
which they have given on the subject. Sometimes the conditions of the moving 
weight and the beam are such as to produce a statical deflection greater than the 
dynamical, and sometim^.'S the conditions produce a dynamical deflection greater 
than the statical. The computation of the effects of these component forces is 
attended ^vith great difliculty, as they bring into full activity the elastic forces 
of tlie beam and its inertia. The solution, however, of this intricate problem, 
under certain restrictions, viz., when the weight of the beam is small compared 
with the moving weight, and the deflection small compared with the length of 
the beam, has been given by Professor Stokes. (See " Transactions of the 
Cambridge Philosophical Society," vol. viii, p. 707.) 

The same distinguished analyst has given another solution to this problem 
when the mass of the moving weight is neglected, or the eflect of the weight 
reduced to a travelling pressure. The exact solution of the problem lies between 
these extreme cases, and is therefore circumscribed by the labors of Professor 
Stokes in such a manner that it can be approached to any degree of proximity 
required. The general dynamical equations from which the dynamical deflection 
is computed are so complex that a complete solution of the problem, as exhibited 
in practice Ijy the moving weight being sustained by the beam in two points, is 
not likely soon to be furnished. Still, what has been accomplished by Professors 
"Willis and Stokes is sufficient to show to practical engineers that the startling 
results of Sir Henry James and Captain Galton, as obtained at Portsmouth, and 
confirmed on the Ewell and Godstone bridges, arc indicated by dynamical laws, 
the trutli of whicli cannot be controverted. If this be true — and there can be 
little doubt of it — no engineer will be justifiedin neglecting a just estimate of its 
effects on the stability of structures on the safety of which human life depends. 
The commissioners appointed to inquire into the application of iron to railway 
stiuctures have rendered essential service to the public by the discovery and 
experimental development of the difference between statical and dynamical 
• deflection in iron girders. It is true they have not exhausted the subject, nor 
divested it wholly of its perplexity ; but they have gained a positive and useful 
result, by showing to i)ractical engiiieers the falsity of their position when they 
affirm that dynamical deflection is always less than the statical. _ I may state, 
in conclusion, that Professor Willis, by a train of reasoning which deixmds on 
the assumi)tion of each particle of the beam moving into its ixxsition, forming 
the trajectory, at the same instant of time, has shown that the inertia of the beam 
is the same as it would be by placing half its weight at the centre. 

This result is derived from a priuci])le which is purely hypothetical, and the 
correct determination of which is the chief difficidty in the mathematical discus- 
sion of the problem. In the Appendix 13 to the cJmniissioners' report, Professor 



228 MEMOIK OF EATON HODGKINSON. 

Willis has given the following dynamical equation, from wliicli tlie trajectory of 
the curve described by the moving load may be computed : 

^_ 9 fjct^ y 

clx'~Y^ V'S {2ax—x^f' 
y and x are the rectangular co-ordinates of the moving weight, the origin being 
at the extremity of the beam ; y is vertical and x horizontal. 

V=the velocity of the moving weight. 

2a=the length of the beam. 

.</=tlie force of gravity. 

S=the central statical deflection. 
This equation, and the reasoning by which it is established, accidentally fell 
into my hands during the time the commissioners were considering it, and in a 
letter to the secretary. Captain Galton, I pointed out the hypothetical principle 
on which the equation is founded. This principle is, that the reaction between 
the moving weight and the beam is equal to the weight which would be neces- 
sary to deflect the beam, when placed on it at rest, as much as the travelling 
load deflects it. This position is purely hypothetical, which may or may not 
give results approximating to the truth, according to the dimension of the quanti- 
ties which constitute the fixed data of the problem. It is not improbable that 
this reaction, the amount and direction of which influence the motion of the 
moving weight over the beam, is continually vibrating between a maximum 
amount and zero, and that many times during the passage of the weight over the 
beam the reaction may be nothing, and therefore the moving load be abandoned 
to the influence of its own gravity only. However this may be, it is certain that 
its amount is never accm-ately measured by a formula which produces an accelerat- 
ing force of 

ga' ^ y 

S (;zax-x^f^ 
as given by Professor Willis. 

This subject has received considerable attention from Mr. H. Cox, in a paper 
entitled '■'■ Dynamical Deflection and Strain of Girders," which is printed in the 
''Civil Engineer and Architects' Journal" for September, 1848. It appears 
that Mr. Cox has established, from the principle of xis liva, that the moving 
body cannot in any case produce a deflection greater than double the central 
deflection, the elasticity of the girders being supposed perfect. Professor Stokes, 
however, has shown that this conclusion of Mr. Cox is not true ; that among the 
sources of laboring force Avhich can be employed in deflecting the girders Mr. 
Cox has omitted to consider the ris viva arising from the horizontal motion of 
the body, and therefore has been led to an inference which is not correct. The 
recorded experimental facts connected with the dynamical deflection of bridges 
and bars of ii-on are given in the report of the commissioners as follows : 

EWELL BRIDGE. 

The span is 48 feet ; the statical deflection produced by the engine and tender, 
39 tons, and weight of half bridge 30 tons, wivs only .215 inch. This deflection 
Avas increased to .245, with a speed of 37 miles per hour. A speed of 51 miles 
per hour produced a deflection of .235. 

Greatest dynamical deflection _ 
Statical deflection "~ ' 



MEMOIR OF EATOII IIODGKIXSON. 



229 



GODSTOXE BRIDGE. 

The span is 30 feet, the weight of engine and tender 33 tons, and weight of 
half bridge 25 tons; the statical deflection was .19 inch. This was increased 
to .25 by a speed of 49 miles per hoiu". 

The dynamical deflection 

.Statical deflection "" ' ' 

showing an increase of nearly one-third. 

A pair of steel bars, two feet three inches by two inches broad and one-fourth 
inch deep, gave the following results : 



"Velocity in feet per second. 
Central deflection in inches . 



15 
1.02 



14 
1.32 



29 
1.45 



34 

1.30 



44 

l.OC 



A bar of wi'ought iron nine feet long, one inch broad, and three inches deep, 
with a. load of 1,778 pounds, gave the following results : 



Velocity in feet per second . 
Central deflection in inches. 



.29 



15 



,33 



29 



,50 



36 



,62 



.46 



In the commissioners' report ]\Ir. Hodgkinson has given the results of a variety 
of experiments on the transverse strength of cast, mixture of cast and wrought, 
and wrought ij'on. The experiments were made with great care, and every 
source of error that could be was eliminated, notwithstanding the trouble and 
expense which such a procedure necessitated. Still there was a great dilliculty, 
Avhich was always felt by Mr. Hodgkinson, and which occupied, at various times, 
much of his attention, viz., to connect the breaking-weight of the beam with its 
deflection in sucli a uianner as to indicate true practical results. For this pur- 
pose lie entered into a very general theoretical investigation on the transverse 
flexure of beams, which is given in the second volume of Tredgold '^ On the 
Strength of Cast Iron ;" but, in order to make the results of this very general 
investigation practical, he is compelled to assume, first, that the forces of exten- 
sion and compression are proportional to the extensions and compressions ; 
second, that the force of extension is equal to the force of compression ; third, 
the reaction at the points of support is always vertical. It is not surprising, 
then, that a formula, based upon so many assumptions, should fail to represent 
correctly the relation between the breaking-weight and the dimensions of the 
beam; this is exactly what has taken place. 

The discordance here alluded to has arrested the attention of AY. II. Barlow, 
esq., C. E., F. R. S., and the results of his investigations are given in two very 
interesting memoirs, printed in the "Transactions of the lloyal Society'' for 
1855-'57. It would be great presumption on my part to enter into any profound 
criticism on the mode of procedin-c and results of these memoirs, revised as tlicy 
have been by Professor Barlow, wlio is justly distinguished by his genius, high 
attainments, and long life devoted to the interests of science; but still it may 
not be out of place here to make one or two observations which occurred to me 
while reading the inerrujirs. I quite agree with Mr. Barlow that there must be 
other forces in operation when a beam is broken transversely than those simi)ly 
and usually designated tensile and compressive. If a beam is broken transversely, 
and the existence and position of the neutral surface are admitted, then it is not 
dilficult to conceive the existence of a third force between two adjacent lamina; 
mi(.'(pially extended or compressed. 

This is really what hap[)cns, and the existence of which was well known to 



230 MEMOIR OF EATON HODGKINSON. 

Mr. Hodgkinson, who tlionglit it to be so small in practical cases tliat its accumu- 
lated action would not produce much effect on the breaking strain of the beam. 

Be this, however, as it ma}^, there is sonie little difficulty in subscribing to all 
that Mr. Barlow advances on this important and interesting subject. In the first 
place there might be an exception taken to Mr. Barlow's method of fixing the 
position of the neutral line. Does he not fix it by an appeal to his senses rather 
than by the result of the mathematical analysis of the data he has obtained from 
experiment'? The position which he fixes upon, viz., the centre of the beam, 
necessarity involves the equality of tensile and compressive forces, a cfOnclusion 
which is not justified by Mr. Hodgkinson's experience. In the second place 
JMr. Barlow makes it appear that the error in tlie breaking strain of a beam is 
nearly one-half by neglecting the force of adhesion between the adjacent laminse. 
We hardly think this conclusion is based upon sound premises, although it neces- 
sarily follows from the results of a formula which has been obtained by consider- 
ing only the two forces, viz., tensile and compressive. But it is hardl}^ fair on 
the part of Mr. Barlow to institute a comparison between the resistance to flexure 
and the results of a formula (W=fac//^-?) in which that resistance to flexure is 
neglected, without applying the well-known corrections to that formula. When 
a beam is strahied to a considerable extent the deflection becomes sensible, and of 
course the reaction at the supports, being perpendicular to the surface of the beam, 
makes an angle with the vertical. This circumstance affects the above formula 
in two ways : fii"st, it alters the amount of the moment about a line in the neutral 
surface ; and, second, its tendency is to change the position of the neutral line. 
Therefore, unless these corrections are apjn'oximated to and applied to the for- 
mula, it is not safe to infer, as Mr. Barlow has done, that, by neglecting the 
resistance to flexure, the ordinary formula only gives nearly half the breaking 
weight. 

Another source of error is in the law ^^iit tensio sic vis" as it is well knowni, 
from Mr. Hodgkinson's experiments, that the forces of extension and compression 
are neither equal nor vary with the extension and compression when the strains 
are large. I quite agree, as did Mr. Hodgkinson, with Mr. Barlow as to the exist- 
ence of a resistance to flexure in the transverse strain of beams besides the ordi- 
nary forces of tension and compression ; but the mode of estimating this resist- 
ance to flexure in Mr. Barlow's second memoir amounts to the assumption that 
the force of extension varies by a law expressed by ax-\-b, where a and b are 
constants, and x the distance of the particle from the neutral axis. I may add, 
in conclusion, that Jlr. Hodgkinson has computed the tensile and compressive 
forces, subject to a law much more general than the one here alluded to, with 
great clearness and adaptation to include practical cases. 

Mr. Barlow's two memoirs, however, are the first on this subject to insist on 
the existence of a distinct force to resist flexure ; and although I do not see the 
force of his comparison of the resistance to flexure with the results of the ordi- 
nary formula, or the theoretical method by which he estimates its amount, still I 
can with confidence reconnnend these memoirs to the engineering student as 
being worthy of his attentive perusal. 

In concluding this memoir of one of the most distinguished members of the 
society, I cannot help feeling that the description herein given of his character 
and labors falls short of the real position which they occupy in the public mind ; 
and although I have had much pleasure in reading and collating the discoveries 
of Mr. Hodgkinson, I regret that the preparation of this memoir has not been 
placed in abk'r hands. One thing, however, consoles me, and supplies me with 
an ample reward, which no criticisms on my effort can possibly cancel, and that 
is, I have been engaged, to the best of my abilit}", in the endeavor to perpetuate 
the memory of a great and good man, whose singuhir pi'aise it is to have spent 
his life and his great powers for the good of mankind, with a single aim to truth 
nnd science, without desiring or gaining pecuniary reward. 



RECENT PROGRESS IN RELATION TO THE THEORY OF HEAT. 



By a. Cazin. 



Translated for the Smithsonian Institution.* 

The study of heat pi'esents a remarkaLle example of the connection -which 
exists between the physical properties of matter. Restricted as the limits of 
this discourse must necessarily he, I propose on the present occasion to consider 
heat under two points of view only, first in its relations to lii^'ht, and nest in its 
relations to movement. It may thus be practicable to furnish a rapid sketch of 
the actual state of this part of physics. 

The fact that the same laws are applicable to the propagation of heat and 
to that of light, is one which science leaves no longer in doubt. To every expe- 
riment in optics there corresponds a similar experiment in thermotics. The methods 
of obsen'ation are to-day carried to such perfection that M. Desains has l)een 
able quite recently to reproduce with heat the remarkable phenomenon of the 
luminous interference from striated surfaces. 

A pencil of horizontal luminous rays traverses a plate of glass on which arc 
traced parallel lines extremely close to one another, (G,000 lines in an extent of 
one inch.) This pencil is divided by the plate into many distinct pencils, 
which spread themselves in fan-shape in a horizontal plane, and we see, on the 
screen upon which these pencils are made to fall alternate intervals of light and 
obscurity. With the violet light the dark intervals are not so large as with the 
red. This is the phenomenon of diffraction discovered by Frauenhofer. By 
applying a thermo-electric battery, the most delicate of thermometers, at different 
places in the plane where the pencils transmitted by the luminous rays are 
distiibuted, M. Desains has verified the existence of pencils of heat distril)uted like 
those of light. Moreover, by causing obscure heat, proceeding from a solar pencil 
which has passed through M. Tyndall's solution of iodine in bisulphide of carbon, 
to fall on the rays, M. Desains has observed that the intervals without heat 
are greater than the obscure intervals given by the red light. Remark now the 
gradation : the violet is more refrangil)le than the red, the red more refrangible 
than the obsciu'e heat, consequent^' the magnitude of the intervals destitute of 
rays varies in inverse proportion to the refrangibility. 

Several other experiments in optics have been transferred by M. Desains to 
the domain of radiant heat. 1 will cite one of those n.'lating to the })olarization 
of obscure heat. The rays of heat employed issue from a common oil lamp ; a 
lens of glass collects them and causes them to converge on a prism of Iceland 
spar achromatized. Two pencils issue from this spar: that which is called the 
ordinary pencil encounters a second yrism of spar like the first; it is bilurcated 
in its turn. Of the two pencils thus obtained, that which is called or(Jinari/-()nli- 
«ar^ falls on a lens and converges towards the thermo-electric l)attery. AVhen 
the principal sections of the two spars are perpendicular, neither light nor heat 
arrive at the battery ; the ordinary-ordinarjf pencil is said to be extinguished. If 
one of the spars be now made to turn upon itself, light and heat innnediately appear 
in this pencil. Let us now i)lace between the two spars a trough, containing 
Tyndall's solution ; the luminous rays are arrested, and beyond the trough there 
remains oidy the obsciue heat. The destruction of this heat is complete when 

* From the Revue des coiirs scientijiqucs dc la Frunrr. et de I' 6t ranger, "Associution 
Scientitique de France, (conferences de la Sorbounc,") ld07. 



232 EECENT PROGEESS IN RELATION TO THE THEORY OF HEAT. 

tlio principal sections of the two spars are perpendicular. Here, then, we have 
the experiniencal demonstration of the polarization of obscure heat. 

Let us next place hetween the trough and the second spar a lamina of quartz, 
the thermo-electrie battery manifests heat anew, just as if, without interposing the 
quartz, we had caused the first spar to turn by a certain angle. It is usual to 
say that the ordinary pencil which issues from the spar is polarized in the prin- 
cipal section, and that the transmission of this pencil through the quartz causes 
the plane of loolarization to revolve. To conclade the experiment, we cause the 
first spar to turn until the ordinanf-ordinarij pencil which encounters the battery 
is extinguished anew, and the angle of this rotation measures the rotation of the 
plane of pohxrization. 

The perfect resemblance of a luminous and a calorific ray has led to the infer- 
ence that the forces which are at play in the two radiations phxce matter in a simihar 
state of movement. Would we figure to ourselves a suite of movement capable 
of producing all the phenomena of light, we have but to imagine an infinitude of 
particles situated upon the ray and oscillating from one side to the other of an 
intermediate position, like the particles of a chord which yields a sound ; two 
consecutive particles act one on the other in such a way that everj' modification 
of movement in the one induces a determinate modification in the other. While 
a particle executes a complete oscillation the movement is transmitted to a certain 
distance which is called length of wave. Here we have the point of departure 
of the theory of undulations ; the same hypothesis is applicable to heat. 

From the fact that the propagation of heat and light takes place as well in a 
vacuum as through ponderable bodies, tho above hypothesis must be thought 
incomplete unless it be supposed in addition that the matter which transmits the 
undulations is different from ponderable matter; to the former, therefore, has been 
given the name of ether. Were this vibrating matter even of the same nature 
Avith the matter of ponderable bodies, it would still be useful to employ a special 
word to indicate that it is in a particular state, capable of ]>ropagating light; as 
the purpose in using it is to represent to ourselves the possible mechanism of the 
phenomena, we should, above all, seek simplicity of language, and the use of 
the phrase luminous etJter satisfies tliis condition. 

It may naturally be asked whether there is a calorific ether distinct from the 
lumi7ious ether, or whether one sole ether is sufiicient for the mechanical repre- 
sentation of the radiation of light and of that of heat. Only one, it is evident, 
should be admitted, if that suffices for the explanation of all the known facts, and 
the question here relates to facts Avhich take place in the material world, outside 
of ourselves and independently of our sensations. To the well-known researches 
of MM. Jamin, Masson, and Delaprovostaye, which corroborate the hypothesis 
of a single etlK3r, we should now add the late investigations of M. Desains on the 
rotation of the plane of polarization of the rays of obscm-e heat in passing through 
quartz. 

When the question relates to luminous rays we know that the rotations of the 
plane of polarization are inversely proportional to the squares of the lengths of 
wave. If there be luminous rays having a length of wave four times greater 
than that of the violet rays, their rotation, according to this law, would be 16 
times smaller than the rotation of these last. Now, MM. Delaprovostaye and 
Desains had heretofore established that calorific rays and luminous rays of the 
same length have the same rotation. And now M. Desains shows us that tho 
rays of obscure heat satisfy the law as enunciated, and among these rays there are 
such as have, in fact, a rotation 16 times less than that of the violet, and a length 
of wave lour times greater. 

Instead of assuming that two like systems of waves propagate, the one heat, 
the other light, while they undergo the same modifications bj' reflection and 
refraction, is it not more simple to admit but a single system, the longest waves 
producing the effectsof heat, and the shortest those of light ? Such is the import 



EECENT PROGRESS IN RELATION TO THE THEORY OF HEAT. 233 

of tlie prineiplo of the identity of lieat and li2,"lit ; it explains all observed pecu- 
liarities of radiation, whether chemical, calorilic, or Iniuinous. 

If we would comprehend, for example, how a solution of sulphate of quinine is 
luminous in a dark chamber, when it is placed in the ultra-violet region of the 
solar spectrum? Imagine a scries f)f tuning forks of different magnitudes assem- 
bled together in the same place, and a sound produced at a distance. Several 
of the forks will be thrown into vibration, namely, those which arc capable of 
rendering the harmonic sounds of the exciting sound. Sonorous waves, longer 
than the incident wave, will })rocced from the forks which render grave har- 
monic sounds : the exciting sound will have generated graver sounds. Such is tho 
analogy of fluorescence. The radiations incident to waves too short to excite tho 
retina generate in the sulpliate of (piinine longer wavtN?, which are capable of pro- 
ducing the sensation of light. Inversely an obscine radiation of a wave too long 
to be luminous may, by encountering certain bodies, occasion therein more ra])icl 
ethereal vibrations, and generate shorter waves, which shall bo luminous. These 
vibrations are analogous to those which correspond to the sharp harmonics in 
the acoustical ex])eriment which I have adopted for exemplification. Here wo 
have the image of that kind of calorilic and luminous phenomenon which M. 
Tyndall has termed calorcscence. 

The ray of heat which penetrates into a body is absorbed therein either in 
whole or in part. So long as the question concerns a solid or liquid body wo 
feel no dou])t as to the exactness of this proposition ; it is the simplest expression 
of observed facts. But when it relates to a gas or to vapor the absorption is 
much more difficult to demonstrate. We owe to M. Tyndall, in England, and 
to M. Magnus, in Germany, the experimental proof of the absorption of heat by 
gases and the measure of that absorption. 

Tlie experiments of M. Pouillet on the solar heat long since taught us that the 
atmosphere retained a considerable portion of the rays emanating from the sun 5 
but which of the gaseous elements of the air exerts the greatest absorption 1 At 
present some approximation has been made to the sohition of this important 
question, and I shall attempt to show at what point it has arrived. 

To ascertain the absorption of heat by a gas, avc will take, like M. Tyndall, 
a tube of plate-tin of the length of two metres, w'hich bears a tubulure in the 
middle and a tubulure towards each end. A pencil of obscure heat traverses this 
tube, and encounters the thermo-electric battery. The calorific effect indicated 
by the galvanometer is due, in part, to the ra^'s which pass ijito the tube parallel 
to its axis, in part to those which have undergone sundry reflections on the walls 
of the tube; the tube contains at this time only common air, naturally humid. 
We exhaust this air by the tubulure of the middle, by means of a pneumatic 
machine ; as the tulio is open at both ends the atmospheric air enters freely, and 
notwithstanding the removal of the strata of air, the needle of the galvanometer 
remains at rest. If coal gas be now introduced through the terminal tubulures 
the deviation of the needle diminishes, wliich shows tliat heat no longer traverses 
the tube as freely as before. Arrest the introduction of tho gas by continuing 
the action of the pistons of the pneumatic macliine, air replaces the gas, and tho 
needle returns to its former deviation. From this experiment it is inferred that 
coal-gas has an absorbing power superior to that of atmos|)heric air. 

]M. Tyndall varied this experiment by causing dry air to pass into the tube, 
and observed an augmentation in the deviation of tho needle of the galvanometer. 
From this he concludes that the absorbing power of humid air is greater than 
that of dry air, and that aqueous vapor exerts on heat a considerable degree of 
absorption. A great numberof experiments made by other methods has led him 
to the same conclusion. On the other hand M. Magnus, in operating after M. 
Tyndall's or by other methods, foinid that humid air acted very nearly as dry 
air, and that any great difference was only niaiii tested when water exists in the 
air in a vesicular statCj similar to the water of clouds. 



234 EECENT PROGRESS IN RELATION TO THE THEORY OF HEAT. 

Tlie experiment of M. Tyndall, of wliicli I have attempted to give an idea, 
seemed to be of a nature to decide tlie question in favor of the English physicist. 
But it is in reality a very complex question, as is shown by the latest observa- 
tions of M. Wild, of Berne, and those of M. Magnus. The state of the wall of 
the tube exerts a highly important influence on the effects obtained. It is true 
that humid air communicates less heat to the battery than dry, if a tube polished 
on the inner side be employed. But if the tube be blackened or lined with 
velvet an inverse effect is observed ; humid air then conveys more heat to the 
battery than dry. The complication of the phenomenon is connected with the 
condensation of the vapor of water on the walls of the tube. It appears, there- 
fore, extremely difficult to measure the absorbing power of aqueous vapor by the 
methods which have heretofore been practiced; all that can be concluded from 
numerous observations up to the present time is that this power is not so con- 
siderable as M. Tyndall thinks. If we consider, however, the terrestrial atmos- 
phei-e in relation to tlie vesicular water it contains, absorption will appear due 
principally to that water, and the climatological conclusion of M. Tyndall be 
free from objection. 

In what light should we regard the mechanism of absorption ? If we admit 
in bodies the existence of ponderable particles and an ether, we can suppose that 
the movement of the ether is transformed into a different movement, effected by 
the particles of the body when absorption occurs. We are led to believe that 
this transformation is more facile in compound bodies that in simple, from seeing 
that the absorbent power of the former is in general gTeater, and we can imagine 
compound bodies to be aggregations of particles whose form is opposed to the 
vibrations of the ether. M. Tyndall says that simple gases are to compound 
gases what a smooth cylinder, revolving in water, is to a wheel with paddles. 
The verification of such a law is of very great importance, and we thus see how 
the research respecting the absorbent powers of gases and vapors may disclose 
remarkable correlations between the diff'erent properties of matter. 

In the same way that we just represented to ourselves the absorption of heat 
by gases, we can also represent its emission ; it will be the transmission of the 
movement of the particles of gas to the ether, and two gases will present the 
same relation between their absorbent and their emissive powers. The emission 
of heat by gases is well established by the experiments of MM. Tyndall and 
Magnus ; there remains no uncertainty but with regard to the numbers which 
measure it. On this head new researches are indispensable. 

There exist other phenomena calculated to reveal to us the relations of heat 
and light. It has been long known that the refractive properties of bodies vary 
with the temperature, and the study of this variation must greatly contribute to 
our knowledge of the constitution of bodies. M. Fizeau has been occupied with 
this study for many years, and he has been led to the origination of a new expe- 
rimental method, the principle of which I proceed to explain. 

The heat absorbed by a body is employed to })roduce many effects, among 
which is the change of its volume. When the question relates to abody sufficiently 
voluminous, the methods practiced leave nothing to desire. It is not so, however, 
in regard to bodies which can be obtained only in small fragments, such as 
crystals. The process of M. Fizeau is essentially as follows : The solid frao-- 
ment, having the form of a lamina with two parallel faces, is placed on a hori- 
zontal metallic plane, supported by three long adjusting screws. The upper 
points of these screws support a plane of glass, beneath which is the solid lamina 
designed to be studied. By working these screws the lower face of th(^ plane 
of g-lass is brought parallel to the upper lace of the solid, at a distance of about 
two hundredths of a millimetre. By causing rays of simple light to fall perpen- 
dicularly on the lamina, rings, alternately brilliant and obscure, will be seen 
reflected on the latter. If the thickness of the small stratum of air interposed 
between the glass and the solid be gradually increased, ^the rings approach the 



EECENT TROGEESS IX RELATION TO THE THEORY OF HEAT. 235 

centre by a centripetal movement ; the central dark ring- becomes a black point 
and disappears ; the second dark ring has taken its place, disappears in its turn, 
and so on in succession. Inversely, it" the tliickness of the stratum of air is 
diminished, the movement of the rings is centrifugal ; a point appears at the centre, 
grows larger, becomes a ring ; then a new ring is formed at the <?entre, and so 
in succession. When a ring proceeds thus to occupy the place of another ring, 
we know, according to the laws of light, that the thickness of the stratum of 
air has varied by a half length of the wave; for yellow light this variation is 
294 millionths of a millimetre. Observation of the rings, therefore, will enable 
ns to know the slightest variations in the thickness of the stratum of air. 

The apparatus is placed in an air-bath, and is gradually heated. If the solid 
lamina dilates it tends to diminish the thickness of the stratum of air; the three 
screws, on the contrary, by dilating, tend to increase that thickness. The result- 
ing ellect will be a diminution or augmentation of the thickness, and consequently 
the centrifugal or centripetal movement of the rings will be observed, according 
as the dilatation of the lamina shall be greater or less than that of the screws. 
From the degree of displacement of the rings we deduce the dilatation of the 
lamina. 

This method, the precision of which is extremely great if we take all the pre- 
cautions indicated by M. Fizeau, enables us to resolve a great number of ques- 
tions relating to the properties of crystals, and to establish new relations between 
heat and light. Thus there exist in a crystal three rectangular directions, which 
are called axes of elasticity, around which are grouped the most remarkable opti- 
cal phenomena, and also the phenomena of couductibility and electricity discovered 
by I)e Senarmont. These axes play the same part in the phenomena of dilatation 
by heat, and the ingenious researches of M. Fizeau have now completed our 
knowledge of the admirable structure of crystallized solids. Among the numerous 
unexpected results at which he has arrived, I may cite the contraction of the 
ioduret of crystallized or amorphous silver at every temperature which has be(in 
employed, and the existence of a maximum of density for the beiwl, the protoxide 
of copper, and the diamond. 

I pass now to the second part of my subject, the relations which exist between 
heat and movement. During the heating or the cooling of a body, there are in 
general three sorts of eftects to be considered, the variation of tem[)erature, tho 
external mechanical labor which results from the change of the volume of bodies 
and from pressures exerted on their surface, and the int(Mnal ineclianical labor 
which consists in the change of aggregation. Tliere are delinite relations between 
these effects and the quantities of heat lost or gained by the body, and the dis- 
covery of these relations is one of the most remarkable advances of modern 
physics. It serves as the basis for the mechanical theory of heat. 

It is now well established by experiment that a given quantity of heat is 
equivalent to a definite mechanical labor, as if heat were convertilde into labor, 
and vice versa. This experimental law h^ads us to regard the effects of heat as 
the result of the movement of the particles of bodies, and to frame hypotheses 
which enable ns to conceive of this movement; l)ut such is not the object of the 
mecliani(;al theory of heat. Without forming any hypothesis respecting tho 
nature of heat, it only sets f(n-th a small number of principles, a sort of postu- 
lata suggested by experiments, and it links together all the known facts by means 
of general relations deduceil mathematically from those j)rinciples. It is a pliysical 
theory in the rigorous acce[)tation of tlie word. 

Till now two buuhunental principles have served as a point oi' dcpariure ; but 
according to the recent researches of M. Ilirn, the second principle would bo a 
rational consequence of the first, so that thcnnodijnuinici woidd seem based iu 
reality on the sole principle of the eqiiivulcnci/ of heat and. of labor. So impmlant 
is such a proposition that I could not pass it by in silence. 

The thermodynamic theory has opened a new horizon to all those who study 



236 RECENT PROGRESS IN RELATION TO THE THEORY OF HEAT. 

the physicpl and natural sciences. Admirable as lias been its previous career, it 
tas before it tbe most brilliant future. When our illustrious Ampere had divined 
the connection which exists between magnetism and electricity, electrodynamics 
was founded, and brilliant discoveries arose on every side. Our own o-eneration 
nas 710 cause to envy its predecessor; to the former pertains the credit of the 
development and application of thermodynamics. The formulas deduced from 
this branch of science have undergone the test of experimental scrutiny, applied 
by M. Regnault and other physicists ; those formulas have other tests to undergo, 
by suggesting new experiments which had probably never been attempted without - 
them. 

The scientific association of France will contribute to this progress by facili- 
tating and stimulating research. In this spirit its committee of physics has 
charged me with the study of the properties presented by saturated vapors when 
they undergo expansion or compression, and the results obtained have been pub- 
lished. Tlie creation of new apparatus has led to other researches. It is thus 
that M. Hirn and myself have recently solved an important problem, respecting 
Avliich theie hud not, to our knowdedge, been any previous ex[)eriniental infor- 
mation. I may be permitted here to give a statement of that problem : '' A 
vapor supersaturated with heat is suddenly expanded by producing an external 
labor, without addition or subtraction of heat; what is the relation of the pressure 
to the temperature during the expansion ?" There is an agreement between the 
results we have reached and the principles of thermodynamics ; they prove that 
the changes of volume in vapors are accompanied by a considerable internal 
labor. 

The laws which govern the internal labor of bodies are of the highest importance 
towards a knowledge of the constitution of matter, and yet those laws have been 
scarcely so much as surmised. To this day, experiments have had for their 
principal object the relations of heat and of external labor; it is from these exper- 
iments that have been deduced the numerical data now in use. The experi- 
ments relative to internal labor are more dithcult and more rare. We have had 
recently the researches of M. Edluug, in Germany, on the thermic effects of the 
traction of metals. The principal experiment, and which the author lias submit- 
ted to careful study, is the following : Along a stout piece of vertical wood is 
arranged a bar of metal terminated below by a ring, and firmly fixed by its 
upper extremity. Through the ring a strong iron lever is passed, one extremity of 
which rests on an^axis attached to the piece of wood at a short distance from the 
ring, and the other extremity bears a basin at nine times that distance from the 
ring. When we place on this basin a weight of GO kilograms, we exert on the 
bar of metal a traction of about 600 kilograms, the lever being of the second 
order. A thermo-electric battery has one of its faces applied against the bar, and 
a galvanometer shows the depression of the temperature. Let us now gradually 
lift the weight hi order to allow the bar to return to its primitive length ; the 
galvanometer indicates a corresponding elevation of temperature. Finally, if 
we suddenly remove the weight, there is again an elevation of temperature ; 
but this time greater than before. 

How is this phenomenon to be explained? Let us consider the bar as elon- 
gated by the external traction; its particles have taken such positions that the 
internal forces form an equilibrium to the external forces. If we suppress the 
latter, the body resumes its original volume through the effect of the internal 
forces, and there is an internal labor expended ; there is a manifestation, there- 
fore, within the body itself of a quantity of heat proportional to that labor, and, 
consequently, a spontaneous elevation of temperature ; it is here taken for granted 
that the calorific action of neighboring bodies may be overlooked. 

In place of suddenly suppressing the traction, let us allow the molecular forces 
to restore the body, little by little, to its original volume, by gradually dimin- 
ishing the force oi' traction. The external labor thus produced will correspond 



EECEXT PROGRESS IN RELATION TO THE THEORY OF HEAT. 237 

to an equal ])art of tlic internal Vdhor rx2)cnded, and the otlicr part will be equiva- 
lent to the lieat made apparent, consequently, to the elevation of temperature. 
This elevation will be less, therefore, than that of the prec(Hlino,- operation, and 
the ditl'erence will be proportional to the external labor produced. 

But this operation may be reversed, and when we proceed in such manner as 
to dihite the body mechanically, there is an internal labor [)roduced which rcmahis 
greater than the external labor expended; the difFerence of these two labors cor- 
resjionds to the disappearance of a pn)portional quantity of heat, hence a spon- 
taneous lo'wcring of the temjierature, 

Thus experiments of this kind furnish us a relation between the external laV)or, 
the internal labor, and the heat created or destroyed. On the other hand the 
mechanical theory establishes a mathematical relation between these quantities. 
It is jjracticable, therefore, to submit a conse(]nence of this theory to the test of 
experiment. Such is the olyect which M. Edlung proposed to himself, and it 
may be said that the verification has been as complete as possible. But it does 
not appear possible to draw from such experiments the exact value of the 
mechanical equivalent of heat, on account of the impossibility of preventing' the 
calorilic influence of neighboring bodies. As the traction is not instantaneous, 
neither can the thermometric effect be so ; the effect which we observe is there- 
fore too small, and the theoretic formula which serves to calculate the mechanical 
equivalent yields a value too great. If we establish a system of corrections in 
regard to the effect of the surrounding bodies, the uncertainty is not less great, 
because of the minuteness of the thermometric effect that is measured. 

By the side of the speculative researches which have aggrandized our knowl- 
edge respecting heat within a few years past, of which I have been able to sig- 
nalize but a small number, maybe ranged certain interesting experiments which 
have been devised for the ])opularization of science, and Avith which most of us 
are already familiar. I have selected one of those which we owe to the celebrated 
English professor, M. Tyndall, because it is the reproduction of a striking natural 
phenomenon. I refer to the intermittent eruptions of water and vapor met with 
in Iceland. M. Binisen has furnished a very simple explanation of volcanoes of 
this kind, which arc called geysers, and M. Tyndall has very ingeniously imitated 
them. 

Imagine a pit of a depth of twenty metres, and a breadth of three; at the 
bottom there is water heated by the volcanic substances which i)roceed from the 
deiitli of the earth. The different strata of water occur underpressures increasing 
fi'(jm above downwards, since each stratum nnist sustain the pressure of the atmo- 
sphere and that of tlio column of water which is above it. Tlie temperature of 
ebullition of these strata will therehjre increase, in lilte manner, from al)ove 
downwards. Let us consider a stratum having a temperature a little below that 
of its ebullition, under the conditions in which it actually exists: if its pressure 
be diminished, it is thrown into ebullition. This is precisely what takes place 
in the geyser. Aqueous vapor being formed at the bottom of the pit, where the 
heat is strongest, lifts up the strata of water above. If one of them be raised 
sutliciently high, it passes into a state of ebullition ; the water which is below it 
is less compressed ; it boils in its turn, and a mass of vapor is instantly formed 
at the bottom of the pit. Tliis vapor expels the upper strata of water, and itself 
issues with them, forming an innneuse sheaf-like jet. The expelled vapor io 
cooled, becomes liijuid, and falls back with the projected mass of water; by its 
re-entry the temperature of the pit is reduced, and ebullition is suddenly arrested. 
Vv'e now hear a Cfjncussion proceeding from the formation of new bubldes fs 
water, because all the parts of the [lit are not instantaneously chilled; until 
finally, repose is re-established. But the central hei»t gradually restores the c<tl- 
umn to its former state, and a new eruption takes place. In the experimental 
demonstration, the geyser is represented \)y a tube of metal, two metres in length, 
Burmounted by a basin. It is filled with water, and tw > sources of heat are eslab- 



238 EECENT PEOGRESS IN RELATION TO THE THEORY OF HEAT. 

lislied — one at tlie bottom, the other 60 centimetres higher up. By regulating the 
heat, the water of the latter region is maintained at a temperature a little below 
103 degrees, and therefore cannot boil ; but if the strata of the bottom are raised 
to 105 degrees, they are thrown into ebullition, and the steam raises the middle 
stratum. This is immediately reduced to vapor, and the erruption takes place. 
The mixture of water and steam falls back into the basin, re-enters the tube, and 
a certain interval elapses before the fires can re-establish the temperatures requi- 
site for a new eiTuption. 

In thus presenting to my auditors a view of some of the recent researches of 
physicists, I have endeavored to indicate the philosophic tendency of those 
researches. They lead us to presage new advances which will draw closer the 
bonds which science has discovered between the various forces of nature. Is it 
enough for us to picture to ourselves the mechanism of phenomena by the help 
of ingenious hypotheses ? Hypotheses are useful to the physicist for the dis- 
covery of the nuinerical laws, which reveal to us the harmony of the imiverse ; 
they do not suffice for the philosopher who wishes to ascend higher in the search 
for causes. But to the data of experimental science it is necessary to join prin- 
ciples of a wholly other order, the geim of which has been implanted in our souls 
by the Creator. The origin and essence of natural forces are questions of phi- 
losopliy whose solution, if it is possible, exacts all the powers of investigation 
of which the human mind is capable. 

THE PRINCIPAL SOURCES OF HEAT.* 

In selecting as the subject of this discourse the principal sources of Jicaf, I 
have proposed to give a very simple example of the connection which exists 
between natural phenomena, even those to which we might, if we contented our- 
selves with a superficial examination, deny a community of origin. But when 
mental practice has habituated us to observe what surrounds us, and to draw gen- 
eral conclusions from our observations, when we have learned to read, in some 
sort, the gr?at book of nature, we hesitate no longer to recognize the connec- 
tions which escaped us at first, and we seek an expression for those connections ; 
when we have found that expression, we have constructed a physical theory. 
The theory which will serve me to show the connection of the sources of heat 
is very recent ; it is alluring from its very simplicity. But being a work purely 
human, it is but a rough portraiture, a pale reflection of the grand unity which 
reigns throughout nature. All the merit of this theory consists in its being bet- 
ter than those which preceded it, and in seeming to approach nearer to the truth. 
This must justifj^ us in adopting it. 

Let us understand, then, the limits to which we are restricted ; as far as con- 
cerns us at present, to explain a phenomenon is to show the connection which 
exists between that phenomenon and a general principle whicli is the expression 
of a fact more simple than experiment has revealed to us. I shall commence by 
establishing the fundamental principle on which I propose to sustain myself. 

When a ball of ivory falls on a horizontal plane of marble, it rebounds and 
returns almost to its point of departure. Repeat the experiment, by replacing 
the ivory with lead, and the ball will rise to a less height in rebounding ; but 
now it will grow warm, which was not the case with the ball of ivory. Cause 
soft bodies or liquids to fall ; these will no longer rebomid, and if we measure 
their temperature we shall find the heat created by the impact to be greater than 
in the previous instance. 

It is now known that every pound of every ponderous body, which loses its 
velocity by falling from a height of about 720 feet, and which does not rebound, 
disenages a quantity of heat capable of raising by one degree the tempcraturo 

* Conf6renco de M. Cazin. "Soiree scientifique de Chartres." Revue des cours scientifiqucs 
de la France, Sfc, July, 1867. 



EECEXT PEOGRESS IN RELATIOX TO THE THEORY OF HEAT. 239 

of a pound of water. This datum of experiment serves as a basis for all caleula- 
tions relating to the mechanical fheon/ of heat. 

Here, tben, there is a source of heat whose importance cannot escape our 
attention. Consider the innumerable falls of water which exist upon the earth, 
the waves of the ocean which resemble immense cataracts, incessantly renewed, 
and if we would represent to ourselves the (Miornious (]Tiantity of heat they prct- 
duce, take as an example the falls of the Rhine at Schaffhausen. It has been 
calculated that this single water-fall creates in a day the heat required to melt 
12,000 tons of ice. 

Nor is heat created by the impact of heavy bodies alone. When any force 
has put a body in movement, it often happens that this movement is afterwards 
annihilated, that is to say, it stops without being communicated to other bodies, 
and heat becomes apparent. This is seen in the well-known experiment of the 
fire syringe. ATe exert a muscular effort on a piston ; this compresses the air, 
and our force seems fruitlessly expended. But if it is not employed in commu- 
nicating motion, it serves to produce heat ; the compressed air is heated suffi- 
ciently to kindle gun-cotton. We will lay it down then as a principle that heat 
may arise from the destruction of movement. 

Our habitual sources of heat are chemical combinations. I take sulphuric 
acid, diluted with Avater, in which I have immersed a small balloon containing 
ether; I put zinc in this acid ; a lively chemical action is produced, and the mix- 
ture is sufficiently heated to throw the ether into ebullition. The jet of vapor 
rushes out by a slender tube, and may be made more conspicuous by kindling it. 
The solution of zinc in an acid is therefore accompanied by a disengagement of 
heat. 

The heat disengaged in a chemical reaction is often sufficiently intense to pro- 
duce incandescence, and when the vivacity of action is very great, an explosion. 
I shall cite some examples recently discovered, without going however into detail. 
A leaf of paper is moistened with pyroligneous acid ; we touch it with a glass 
rod coated withamixture of sulphuric acid and hypermanganate of potassium, and 
the paper immediately takes fire. Again, we let fall some drops of the essence 
of anise on the same mixture placed in the bottom of a glass ; there is now both 
incandescence and exph)sion. 

To manifest to my auditors the connection which exists between the heat cre- 
ated by impact and that created by chemical action, I take an exami)le, well 
known, but on account of its simplicity, serving better than the preceding for the 
purpose of explanation. The powdered iron, suitably prepared, takes fire when 
exposed to the air. What is it that occurs in this phenomenon f One of the 
elements of the air, oxygen, combines with the iron and forms a brown powder, 
which is called oxide of iron. If the iron be weighed before and after the com- 
bination, it will be found to have increased in weight ; this proves the fixation 
of the oxygen in the iron. Now, we shall very well represent to ourselves tlie 
mechanism of the combination, ])y imagining that the particles of oxygen have 
been precipitated on the iron and become fixed, just as the stone which falls on 
the earth remains fixed to the soil. Heat, then, has been created by the impact, 
and the connection we sought is established. 

The chemical sources of heat are so important in the arts, that I shall more 
particularly dwell upon them, with a view to point out the recent improvements 
of which they have been the object. It was only the combustion of charcoal, 
accelerated by the insufflation of a considerable quantity of air, which for a long 
time was made use of in industry ; such is the fire of the smelting furnace, which 
can melt iron, but is incapalde of melting platina. This metal, as precious as 
gold, could be melted by no known chemical process until quite recently, when 
the means were devised by M. II. Hainte-Claire Deville. At present we melt It 
very easily by the combustion of illuminating gas with pure oxygen. In this pro- 
cess the oxygen contained in a gasometer issues by a copper pipe terminated by 



240 KECENT PEOGEESS IN EELATION TO THE THEOEY OF HEAT. 

a tip of platina. This pipe is in tlie axis of a second and larger pipe of cop- 
per, wliose extremity is also of platina. The illuminating gas issues forth, fill- 
ing the interval comprised between the two pipes. We have thus a jet formed 
by a mixture. We kindle this jet and introduce it into a furnace composed of lime ; 
the flame whirls with resonance in the midst of the furnace, heats it intensely, and 
issues by a lateral opening. It is by this opening that we introduce the platina 
under the form of tliin lamina?. Each lamina disappears as if swallowed up, 
and a s])arkling liquid trickles to the bottom of the furnace. 

We stop the jet of flame and uncover the furnace; the liquid platina is so 
dazzling that we may extinguish the gas burners in the hall, and we are iUu- 
minate<l as b}'^ the electric light. We pour the liquid in a vase of limestone, 
and can see its perfect fluidity. By degrees it grows cool in the air, and finally 
becomes a solid ; but it is so heated that it will remain a long time luminous. 
When there is need -but of a moderate heat, the combustion of illuminating 
gas by the ordinary air is often preferalde to that of coal, and the construction 
of apparatus for wanning by gas is at present carried to great perfection. The 
principal improvement is due to the distinguished German chemist Bunsen, who 
has devised an excellent arrangement for completel}'' burning the gas. 

The Bunsen burner is essentially formed of two concentric pipes ; the gas 
is conducted into the inner one ; the external pipe being open at the two extrem- 
ities, the atmospheric air naturally enters, mingles with the gas, and it is this 
mixture which is kindled. The flame is but slightly luminous, but very hot; if 
we prevent the access of air, the flame becomes brilliant, because the carbon of 
the gas is not immediately burned by the oxygen of the air, and it remains for 
some time as a solid dust raised to a very high temperature. It is the presence 
of the free carbon which enables the flame to be illuminative ; the form of the 
burner for giving light is such that the carbon is not burned so soon as the hydro- 
gen of the gas, while in the bunier of Bunsen it is burned at the same time. A 
single one of these burners, of a suitable size, is sufficient to melt silver. 

At present the Buneen burners are of the greatest service in our laborato- 
ries; they are employed for heating the tubes for chemical analj'sis, and quite 
recently an arrangement has been contrived which secures for this mode of heat- 
ing the greatest regularity. The mixture of air and gas issues by some sixty 
small holes pierced in a cylinder of fire-proof earth, and all these small flames 
raise the cylinder to a red heat, in such sort that the caloric is uniformly difluscd 
in all directions. Some hundred jets of this sort, suitably disposed around a 
glass tube, raise all its points to the same temperature without risk of fracture 
or distortion of the tube. Is it possible to attain a temperature sufficient for the 
fusion of platina by burning simply a mixture of air and coal-gas ? It is the 
presence of nitrogen, an element of' tlie air altogether inert, Avhich hinders the 
temperature of combustion of such a mixture from being as high as that of the 
mixture of gas and i)ure oxygen. The nitrogen appropriates a part of the heat 
created by the chemical combination, and moreover it embarrasses the contact of 
the oxygen and the combustible. The employment of air Avould nevertheless 
be much preferable to that of pure oxygen, wdien an industrial interest is in ques- 
tion, on account of the dearncss of tlie latter and the difficulty of its prepara- 
ration. Hence it has been sought to solve this problem ; and, by applying to 
the blow-pipe of j\I. Schlpesing the principle of the ventilator of M. Demontdesir, 
M. Wiesnegg has succeeded in melting platina by means of a mixture of air 
and coal gas. 

In the blow-pipe of M. Wiesnegg, as in that of M. Schlsesing, compressed air 
arrives by a small orifice at the bottom of a tube, and the gas penetrates into 
this tube by a lateral tubulure in advance of the jet of air. The mixture is 
kindled at the outlet from the tube. But in the blow-pipe of M. Wiesnegg, the 
air being very strongly compressed, issues w'ith great velocity ; it briskly draws 
in the gas, and holes being })ierced around the orifice of efflux, the atmospheric 



RECENT PROGRESS IN RELATION TO THE THEORY OF HEAT. 2-11 

air is itself drawn in, and penetrates into the blow-pipe, which considerably aug- 
ments the total quantity of air mingled with the gas. In order to evince this 
fact of the aspiration of the suiTounding air, Ave kindle the jet and direct it into 
a small furnace of brick, analogous to the fiu'nace of lime, which has served us 
for melting platina. The flame issues with resonance by a small aperture, and the 
walls of the furnace are rapidly raised to a red heat. We now let fall powder 
w)f iron around the holes of the blow-pipe; this powder becomes heated in the 
furnace and issues with the flame in brilliant sparks. The necessar}' accessory 
of the blow-pipe consists in a powerful 1)ellows, which impels the jet of air under 
a pressure of two atmos})hcrcs. For this purpose a pump compresses the atmos- 
phere in a reservoir, while a tube of resistant caoutchouc conveys the compressed 
air from this reservoir into the blow-pipe. 

In this way the inconveniences of the nitrogen contained in the air are lessened. 
In the blow-pipe of M. Wiesnegg, the air is so intimately mingled with the 
gas that the inertia of the nitrogen ofiFers the least possible opposition to the 
rapidity of the chemical combination. Now", it is on this rapidity that depends 
the temperature of the flame. The more rapid the molecular movements which 
create heat, the higher the point to which the temperatiu-e is raised ; because the 
environing bodies have not time within a certain limit to absorb that heat. 

I limit myself to these applications of the chemical som'ces of heat, and pass 
to a source of quite another kind — to that which lias furnished us the highest 
known temperatures, and which can reduce to vapor the diamond itself. None 
of the preceding methods enable us to modify this substance ; it is the n;ost 
refractory of whicli we have any knowledge. 

Conceive a sheet of zinc and one of copper plunged into sulphuric acid, diluted 
with water. We know that the zinc combines with the elements of the liquid, 
producing heat. If we unite the two sheets by a metallic wire, the latter becomes 
heated, which indicates that it is the seat of a peculiar modification. The cause 
of this modification we name electricity, and we say that the assemblage formed 
of the acid, the metals and the wire, is traversed by the electric current. Now, 
if we measure the heat produced in the acid and in the wire, Ave find it to 
be, for a certain Aveight of zinc dissolved, the same as if the metal Avere simply 
dissolved in the acid Avithout the wire, Avhich gives passage to the current. The 
sole diflcrence Avhich exists betAvecn these two modes of operating consists in 
the heat being difi'erently distributed ; in the act of the dissolution of the. zinc 
in the acid Avithout an electric current, the heat is only produced at the place of 
the chemical action ; Avhen there is a current, this heat is produced simultane- 
ously in all the parts of the circuit traversed by the current. In order to exhibit 
the heat disengaged in the electric circuit, a battery has been arranged outside 
of the apartment occupied bA' my audience ; that battery being an assemblage of 
sheets of zinc and aciduhiled Avaierin Avhich the chemical combination is eiFected, 
Avhile the metallic Avire Avhich serves to close the* circuit extends to myself for 
the peiiormance of the ex])criments. At this moment the Avire is divided, and I 
hold in my hand its two extremities ; I touch Avith them the two ends of a fine 
wire of platina, 50 centimetres in IcJigth, so that the circuit is now closed. The 
cun'ent passes, and we see that the Avire of i)latina is heated to a Avhitc red ; it 
in fact melts, and no doubt therefore can remain of the disengagement of heat 
which I announced. The two wires Avith Avhich I touched tlie platina were of 
Copper, and their diameter Avas about two millimetres; these also Iuia'c become 
heated, l)ut the elevation of their temperature Avas slight, simply because of their 
thickness. 

I shall not seek on this occasion to ex])lain how electricity effects the distribu- 
tion of heat in the circuit of the battery ; 1 propose merely to mention this means 
of producing heat, the discovery of which avc owe to V«jlta, and which dates l)Ut 
a half centmy ago. It has been seen that this source of heat is of chemical 
16 s 



24:2 RECENT PROGRESS IN RELATION TO THE THEORY OF HEAT. 

oriijin, and consequently tlie connection wliicli it has with the sources previously 
spoken of is suflicicntly established. 

It remains for me to show how the Voltaic circuit realizes the highest tempera- 
ture known. AVe attach to the extremities of our two copper wires cylindrical 
pieces of charcoal ; we then bring these cylinders into c<intact with one another. 
The circuit is now closed. If we separate these two }iieces of charcoal, a mass 
of dazzling light tills the interval between them and re-establishes the continuity 
of the circuit. What is this light, which has received the name of the Voltaic 
arch ? It is a volume of incandescent particles of charcoal, rfvhich acts in like 
manner with the platina wire of the preceding experiment. This mass of par- 
ticles is vehemently heated by the ])assage of the cuiTcnt. In order that its 
enormous temperature mav be appreciated, we project it on a tablet by means of 
lenses, having first enclosed it in a suitable box, that the eyes of the spectators 
may be sheltered from its blinding brightness. By this expedient, we are enabled 
to view all the details of the Voltaic arch. On the tablet we may see the reversed 
image of the sticks of charcoal, themselves heated to white-red, as well as that 
of liie arch, which appears as a violet flame. Let us place a sheet of platina in 
this thimc ; it melts rapidly, and the fused platina collects iu a sparkling globule 
on one of the pieces of charcoal. Thus, the heat is at least as strong as in the 
furnace which, an instant ago, we heated by a chemical process. But it is much 
stronger, and if we placed a diamond instead of jdatina in the Voltaic arch, it 
would be seen to become soft and begin to melt. AVere we to conduct this opera- 
tion in a vacuum, the vapor of the diamond and that of the charcoal of the 
api>aratus would be deposited on the walls of the vase. This experiment Avas 
made for the first time by Despretz, at the Sorbonne, with a battery of adequate 
power. 

The sources of heat which I Ikivc thus far noticed are at the disposal of man, 
who can regulate them at his pleasure ; these arc arfiticial sources. It remains 
to speak of the natural sources — of those whose power the Creator has regulated, 
in order to constitute the universal harmony of natvire. 

It is impossible to explain iu this short discourse, by what admirable laws heat 
is incessantly generated by animals. It suflices to recall the fact that this heat 
has a cheuiical origin, in order to comprehend that it is referable to the same fun- 
damental principle with the others. In effect, the carbon and hydrogen furnished 
by our aliments are placed in presence of the atmospheric oxygen by the act of 
respiration, and their chemical combination is etl'ected in the blood, attended Avith 
the customary disengagement of heat. I should add, however, that animals 
further create heat by another process purely mechanical. When a man, for 
instance, goes down stairs, his body is displaced and falls, as it were, from a 
small height ; he displaces it anew, again falls, and continues doing so. Now, 
each of these little descents creates heat, like the fall of every heavy body which 
does not rebound. One of our most distinguished savants, M. Hirn de Colmar, 
has succeeded in measuring the heat thus produced, and finds that it very com- 
petently satisfies the general law. 

I might also speak of the heat disengaged by vegetables, at certain epochs, 
when their organs are the theatre of intense chemical reactions ; at the same time, 
I should say that it is much rather their rc)le to consume heat than to produce it, 
and that in this the functions of vegetable life are made to compensate those of 
animal life. But I am about to transport my audience into other regions, in 
essaying to lift a corner of the veil which renders them so mysterious. 

The grand and most wonderful source of heat is the sun. The genius of man, 
bursting at a bound its terrestrial shackles, has long since overleaped the dis- 
tance which separates us from that marvellous luminary. It has measured, it has 
weighed it, and we are to-day very remote from the time when men bowed in awci 
before it as before a divinitv. Taking as a jiuide the observations conducted b}^ 



RECENT PROGRESS IN RELATION TO THE THEORY OF HEAT. 243 

M. Poiiillet, we fiud that the sun disengages in a year a qnantit_y of heat capable 
of melting a covering of ice 1,500 leagues in thicknes^i, whi(;h might envelop 
a globe one million four hundreil thousand times larger than the earth. 

IIou" arc we to explain this enormous production of heat? Is it the result of 
a combustion analogous to those which take place on our hearths ? To be con- 
vinced of the impossibility c»f such an origin, it suffices to know that if the sun 
were a globe of cliarct)al burning in oxygen, it would be consumed in 5,000 
years. 

The new theory of heat has led to an hypothesis which satisfies the mind up 
to a certain point. The universe is filled with bodies called asteroids, which 
gravitate under the control of imdiscovered laws. It is they which produce the 
shooting stai's and meteorites. Now, it is easily conceivable that such bodies may 
fall regularly upon the sun and create heat by the impact. It has been calcu- 
lated what would be the mass of asteroids capable of thus producing the solar 
heat, and it has been found that it would form in a year a simple stratum of 20 
metres (21.872 yards) at the surface of the sun. It would, at this rate, require 
more than a million five hundred thousand centiu'ies for the diameter of the solar 
disk to appear doubled. Our instruments of astronomy are not sufficiently sensi- 
tive to enable us to observe an augmentation so slow ; thus the hypothesis does 
not stand in opposition to facts. \Vo should not forget, however, that all this is 
conjecture, nor can we plume ourselves on having discovered the cause of the 
phenomena which have been observed. 

After the solar heat, it remains to speak of the terrestrial heat, of which we 
have striking manifestations in volcanic eruptions, in the geysers, tliose gigantic 
eruptions of boiling water which are met with in Iceland, to say nothing of the 
tranquil indications of artesian wells. The laws of these phenomena are not in 
general completely known, though that of the geysers has been artificially repro- 
duced upon the ingenious theory of Bunsen. What shall it be said is the origin 
of this terrestrial heat ? Everything would lead us to believe that the earth was 
primitively an incandescent fluid nuiss, and thus its condition would be analogous 
to that of the sun. An incessant fall of cosmical matter would maintain its heat 
.and gradually enlarge its nmss. Some time or other this sup{)ly has failed, and 
the globe, in cooling, undergone solidification at the surface. Then only did it 
become the earth. 

Thus it will be seen that the generation of heat by the destruction of move- 
ment will serve to explain the production of heat in chemical combinations, in 
the Voltaic circuit, in the organs of living beings — nay, it will furnish no improb- 
able hypothesis of the origin of solar and terrestrial heat. Art; we not tempted 
hence to conclude that heat is likewise a movement? We thereby associate the 
connection we have observed with a great and more general principle than the 
preceding, that of the conservation of energy. In virtue of this principle, if * 
movement ceases in one body, it commences in a neighboring l)ody, so that noth- 
ing is lost ; all the phenomena of the material world result from an exchange of 
movement between bodies, one gaining what the oiher loses.* There is nothing 
which seems to oppose itself to tliis generalizaticm ; it oilers us a picture of what 
we learn by the senses, and by accepting it as a law, we yield to the sentiment 
of unity which the Creator has implanted in our souls. But we should be cir- 
ciunspect ; we niust ntjt allow 'ourselves to be swayed by imagination, nor sur- 
render reason to the seductive creations of our own invention. 

The generation of heat may be a transtbrmation ()f movement, but what is the 
intermediary of that transformation ? In order to raise the veil which conceals 
from us the mystery of creation, is it sufficient to say that matter transmits 

* The .statement verjuire.s limit.'ilioii. It cannot Ik; said tlic.t tlie motion ov onertfy of a 
cannon ball i.s all transfV'ircil to the .side of" the .ship which it pciu'tratcs — a larpe part is 
expended iu niakiufj the hole, another portion in producing the noise of the percussion, and 
the remainder in generating heat. — J, H. 



244 RECENT PROGRESS IN RELATION TO THE THEORY OF HEAT. 

movement to matter, and to imagine a species of movement constituting heat ? 
Never did savant, who had painfully learned to observe what surrounds him, enter- 
tain that thought. For him, the cause of heat is of the same order with that of 
the fall of bodies to the surface of the earth. It is a force, an abstract principle, 
which it is not his mission to fathom. And if, having become philosopher, he 
aims to ascend higher in the scale of causes, he must advance with an extreme 
sagacity, under the penalty of encountering the most mortifying failures. Few 
men are endowed with those qualities of mind which are congruous to the phi- 
losopher, and those who carry into this rugged enterprise the science and the 
modesty of the sage are apt to anive, in theh" conclusions, at principles of the 
purest spiritualism. 



PRINCIPLES OF THE MECHAOTCAL THEORY OF HEAT. 



By Dr. Joii. Muller, 
Trofessor of Physics in the University of Freiburg, in Berne. 



[communicated by the author, in GERMAN, TO THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, FROM HIS LEHRBUCH 
DER PHYSIK, AND ACCOMPANIED BY HIS ALTERATIONS AND CORRECTIONS.] 

I. DEVBLOPMEJfT OF HEAT BY MECHANICAL MEANS. 

It is well known that by compression of the air heat is disengaged; and under 
certain circumstances, as, for example, by means of the fire syringe, may be ren- 
dered so considerable as readily to kindle combustible matter. Such develop- 
ment of heat, however, also takes place through the compression of a solid body. 
To how high a degree the hardest bodies may be heated by violent compres- 
sion may be observed in the hammering of metals and the coining of money. 

But among all mechanical means of generating heat none is more available 
than friction ; and it is this which is almost universally employed Avhen fire is 
to be provided anew. Every one knows that, for this purpose, uncivilized tribes 
make use of two pieces of wood — Fig. 1, for example, shows an arrangement of 
which the Dakota Indians avail themselves. A staff, a h, of hard wood, about 

Fig. 1. 




six inches long and somewhat sharpened at both ends, is inserted i)i a small 
cavity of the board A, is press(.'d on the upper end by the board B, and, in the 
manner represented in the figiu-e, is thrown into rapid revolution. As soon as 
fire makes its appearance, a piece; of tinder, applied by a second person, efiects 
the desired i)urpose. The kindling of fire by steel and Hint depends likewise 
on the application of heat, developed- by attrition, which suffices to kindle to a 
glow Some of the small detached particles of steel, and the now widely-employed 



246 PRINCIPLES OF THE MECHANICAL THEOEY OF HEAT. 

friction matcb derives its great utility from the lieat supplied by a slight rubbing 
of the kindling matter. 

The first scientific experiments on the development of heat by friction were 
those which Count Rumford instituted in the cannon foundry of Munich, (G-il- 
herfs annal. xii, p. 554.) In order that the muzzle of -the cannon, which in 
founding is uppermost, may not become porous, a massive cylindrical piece of 
metal is cast thereon, usually called "the rejected head," {der verlorene Kopf.) 
In one experiment Count Rumford inclosed the rejected head of*a six-pounder 
in an oblong wooden box, open at the top and filled with water. Through one 
end of this box was passed, water-tight, the narrow neck which united the head 
to the cannon ; and through the other, also water-tight, the stem of a steel borer. 
The cylindrical head was 9.8 inches long and 7.75 inches in diameter. The box 
was charged with 18| pounds of water ; the arrangement being horizontal, the 
cannon and the attached head were made to revolve by horse-power at the rate 
of 32 revolutions per minute, the borer, at the same time, being pressed against 
the end of the head. The temperature of the water was raised after one hour 
41° C; after one and a half horn-, 61° C. ; after two hours, 81° C. To 
the wonder of the spectators the water, at the expiration of two and a half 
hours, was actually boiling. The cylinder and the spindle of the borer were 
also heated to the same temperature. During the two and a half hours 4,145 
grains (about 17 half-ounces) of metal shavings had been turned out. 

The experiment not being easily repeated in the form above given, a very 
elegant and commodious apparatus for exhibiting the same result has been 
devised by Professor Tyndall. On the axis of rotation of a small wheel (driven 
by a large one) is screwed a glass tube a, (Fig. 2,) open above and closed below, 
and having a length of about 12 centimetres, with a diameter of rather more than 
two centimetres. This tube is not quite filled with water, and is held firmly 

Fig. 2. 




between tv/o boards of hard wood, provided with semi-circular grooves, the boards 
being connected by a hinge on one side, and on the other pressed against the tube 
with the hand. If the fly-wheel be now thrown into rapid rotation, so strong a 
friction is exerted upon the circumference of the tube that the temperature of the 
water is quickly raised, as may be easily shown by a thermometer, and finally 
attains the boiling point. If the tube be made air-tight, with a cork not too 
firmly fixed, the latter will be thrown out through the elasticity of the enclosed 



PRINCIPLES OF THE MECHANICAL THEORY OF HEAT. 247 

vapor. Should the experiment rccpiire too much, time, the tube may be at first 
filled ^vith warm water. 

Sir. II. Davy succeeded in meltin<^t\vo pieces of ice l)y rubbing- them together in 
a space exhajisted of nir and cooled ]>eh)W the freezing point, while Mayer first 
showed (1842) that heat is developed by the friction of water against solid bodies, 
having, by simple agitation, rais'.'d its temperature from 12° C. to 13° C. {Annal. 
der Chem. und Pliarm., May, 1842.) 

II. — TUE NATUKE OF HEAT. 

As regards the explanation of the phenomena of heat, two contrary Inqootheses 
have stood, from an early period, in opposition to one another. According to the 
one, these phenomena ])roceed from an imponderable element, which, filling up 
the intervals between the separate atoms of matter, operates as a repulsive prin- 
ciple. Through an augmentation of the particles of heat in a body, its tempera- 
ture is raised, its constituent atoms still fm-ther separated from one another, and 
thus its volume increased, while cohesion becomes more and more enfeebled and 
the conditions of aggregation are changed; solid bodies melting, and fluids 
passing into vapor. This mode of explanation has, till the most recent times, 
formed the basis of the doctrine of heat as presented in most popular works ou 
the subject, without any positive assertion however, as to the correctness of such a 
theory. It was employed, in the interim, for want of a better, in order more easily 
to combine the various phenomena of heat under a common point of view. 

The hypothesis of which we speak, namely, that the phenomena of heat result 
from the quiescent presence of an imponderable calorific element, and which, on 
that account, we will call briefly the 'material theorij, stands opposed to another, 
according to which heat is the result of a vibratory motion of the minutest par- 
ticles of bodies, and which thus refers the explanation of the phenomena to 
mechanical principles; on this account we shall designate the latter in our further 
discussion of those principles as the mechanical tlieonj of heat. It was h^ng ago 
said by Locke that '' heat is a most active concussion of the imperceptibly small 
particles of a bod\', whi(;h produces in us the feeling we term warmth ; the cause 
of our perception of heat is, in reality, therefore only a motion." There is nothing, 
in fact, which argues more conclusively in favor of the mechanical explanation 
of the jdienoniena of heat than its production through mechanical forces, as 
exhibited in preceding paragrajdis. Certainly, neither the experiment of Rumford 
nor that (d'lJavy gives the smallest countenance to the conduction of caloritic 
matter from without. 

The adherents of the material theory sought to explain the development of 
hesit by the agency of compression, on the assumption that the capacity of bodies 
for heat decreases with their density, whence a body, when its density is increased, 
must give out heat. Tlie difference between the specific heat of gases under 
constant pressure and with constant volume seemed to argue in favor of this 
hypothesis till Ilegnault had proved that the specific heat of a given weight of gas 
is independent of its densitij. "With regard to the development of heat by friction, 
the material theory endeavored to account for it by assuming that friction is always 
attended by a corresponding compression, and by the diminution of specific heat 
thereby occasioned. But more exact investigation showed that the specific; heat 
of the shavings, which fall away from the cannon in boring, ditlercd not sensibly 
from that of the metal before th(! boring ; while in the exiteriment of Davy a body 
is formed, namely, water, whose specific heat is not only not smaller than that of 
ice, but is actually twice as great. Here, then, the development of heat in 
nowise admits of being referred to a diminution of the specific heat. 

Ituinlbrd, as well as Davy, had instituted their experiments with a view to 
prove the necessity of having recoiu-se to a mechanical explanation of heat. But 
though they had certainly indicated the right course for answering the question 
as to the natm-e of heat, that course was, for the time at least, not followed up; 



248 PRINCIPLES OF THE MECHANICAL THEORY OF HEAT. 

not so mucli perhaps because the generality of physicists had declared, in oppo- 
sition to the two English philosophers, for the material theory, as that the scien^ 
tific inquirers of that period scarcely occupied themselves at all with the question. 
Still, however, the material in hand did not cease to accumulate, which, when 
thrown at a later period into the scale, was destined to give an unquestionable 
preponderance to the mechanical theory. 

The study of radiant heat had taught that every heated body in a colder 
medium sends forth on all sides cah^rific ra3's in like manner as a luminous body 
distributes rays of light. And as the luminous rays pass through air and other 
transparent bodies, without communicating to them the property of luminosity, 
so the rays of heat traverse the air and other diathermanous substances without 
imparting to them any sensible warmth. The rays of heat are then only con- 
verted into perceptible heat when they are absorbed by some body upon which 
they strike, in the same way that certain bodies (phosphorus, for instance) become 
themselves luminous under the influence of strong raj's of light. 

Like the rays of light, the rays of heat are propagated with a velocity which, 
in relation to terrestrial distances, may be termed instantaneous. They follow 
the same laws of reflection and refraction as the rays of light. In the rays of 
heat just such differences appear as those wliich, in the case of the rays of light, 
determine the diversity of colors. In a word, it is now full}' recognized that the 
rays of light and heat are, in their nature, identical, and that if any modification 
distinguishes them, it can only be of a quantitative nature ; whence it follows 
that the phenomena of light and heat must be referred in principle to the same 
explanation. Since, then, in regard to the phenomena of light, the theorjr of 
vibration has triumphantly vindicated its claims against the theory of emanation, 
no doubt can any longer be properly entertained that the phenomena of heat 
also are to be rei'errcd to mechanical principles. 

A body is luminous when its several atoms oscillate with a sufficient degree 
of intensity and velocity about their position of equilibrium. These atomic 
vibrations call forth in the surrounding ether an undulatory movement, by which 
the rays of light are propagated, and hence many analogies exist between sound 
and light. While sound is generated through the vibratory motion of elastic 
bodies, light arises from a far more rapid oscillatory motion of the minutest or 
ethereal particles of matter. As sound is propagated through an nndulatory 
movement of the air, so is light through an undulatory movement of the ether. 
Like the diversity of tones, so the diversity of colors arises from a difference in 
the duration of the oscillations of the conducting medium. But, seeing that the 
rays of light and of heat emitted hy a'body in combustion are identical, can we 
avoid the conclusion that the cause of its light and its heat is the same ; that the 
heat of hodics proceeds^ also, only from an oscUlafonj movement of its atoms f 

Perhaps it may be objected that non luminous bodies also emit heat; that the 
sun's light, as well as electrical light, is accompanied in large proportion by invisible 
rays of heat. It might hence seem that a difference exists between the rays of 
light and those of heat. But more exact investigation has shown that it is only 
a qucmlitative difference which is here in question. The obscure rays of heat are 
not diffbrent in their intrinsic nature from those which are at the same time lumi- 
nous; there are rays which are endued with a greater amplitude of oscillation than 
the red, and whose period of vibration, therefore, exceeds the limit to wliich the 
organization of the eye restricts its visual perceptions. 

Thus the study of radiant heat has led to the same consequences which Rum- 
ford and Davy had deduced from their experiments on the production of heat 
by friction.* But, though the majority of physicists shared the views of the two 
philosophers, and entertained the conviction that the emanation theory was 
thenceforth untenable, for a long time nothing further was done to bring this 
question to a decision until some 24 years ago it was again taken in hand with 
great energy and prosecuted with ardor in various quarters. The first by whom 



PRINCIPLES OF THE MECHANICAL THEORY OF HEAT. 



249 



tliis important subject was resumed, and wlio again recalled it to the attention 
of pliysicists in a treatise published, in 1842, in the Annals of Chemistry and Phar- 
macy, under the title of Obsrnrifiojis on the forces of inanimate 'nature, was Mayer, 
a prat:tising physician of Ileilbronn, 



III. THE MECHANICAL EQUIVALENT OF HEAT. 

Mayer first enunciated the idea that, as a definite proportion universally exists 
between cause and effect, there must always, in the production of heat by mechani- 
cal means, be an invariable projiortion between the heat generated and the 
mechanical power consumed for that purpose ; and, in fact, he thus earl}' established, 
with closely apprt)ximate exactness, the mechanical ecpiivalent of heat. This 
■was, at a later period, still more accurately determined through the researches 
of Joule and Hirn. 

In 1843 the observation was made by Joule (Phil. Mag., vol. xxiii) that, in 
the passage of water through a naiTow tube, heat is generated, and that a 
mechanical power of 770 foot-pounds* is consumed in raising the temperature 
of one pound of water to 1° F., a result which, as we shall see, is not very differ- 
rent from that obtained by compression of the air. 

Joule sought, also, to ascertain by other methods the proportion of the 
heat generated by friction to the mechanical power thereby expended. In a 
copper vessel (A, Fig. 3,) a paddle wheel, whose construction is represented 

Fig. 3. 




Fig. 4. 



in Fig 4, was so disposed as to be capable of revolving around a vertical 
axis. Eight paddles of thin plate, at an angle of 45° with one another, are 
placed at the height h, eight others at the height g. They move between metallic 
plates, which are fixed to the wall of the vessel ; four of 
these plates standing at right angles to one another, being 
at the height/, and four others at the height c. 

The vessel A, which stands on a wooden pedestal, is 
filled with water, and the revolution of tlie paddle-wheel 
is effected, in the manner represented in the figure, by 
means of the weights B and D, which by their descent 
co-operate in communicating motion to the axis of the 
wlieel, and have a fall of about G3 inclies. After these 
weights had reached the floor, by withdrawing the peg s, 
the connection of the cylinder V with the axis of rotation 
of the paddle-wheel was severed, the weights B and D were again wouml up, 

* A foot-pound is the power^evcloped in tlie fall of a weight of one pound throuj^h a height 
of one foot. An English unit of heat is the ipiantity required to raise a pound ot water one 
degree Fahrenheit. A kilogram-metro is the power developed iti the tall of a kilogram 
(2.204 pounds) through one metro. A French unit of heat is the quantity required to raise 
one kilogram of water one degree centigrade. 




250 PRINCIPLES OF THE MECHANICAL THEORY OF HEAT. 

and the same operation was repeated. After this had been done 20 times the 
elevation of the temperature produced by the above means in the water of the 
reservoir A was measured, and was found to amount to nearly 0°.6 F. The 
mechanical power expended in the production of this effect is obtained by 
multiplying the weights by the total distance through which they have fallen, 
with allowance, however, for the acceleration with which,, each time, they have 
descended to the floor. 

In the mode here described Joule has conducted a long series of researches, 
and calculates, as a mean after the application of the necessary corrections, that 
an expenditure of power equivalent to 773.64 foot-pounds develops under the 
above circumstances as much heat as is required to raise the temperature of one 
pound of water 1° F., or, in other terms, that a unit of heat (French) is the 
thermal equivalent of a mechanical expenditure of j)oicer of 435 ¥dogram-metres. 

The friction of an iron paddle-wheel in quicksilver gave 776.3 foot-pounds, 
and the friction of cast-iron plates with one another 774.88 foot-pounds as the 
expendture of power which is necessary to raise the temperature of one pound of 
water 1° F. 

A not very different result was obtained hy Joule when he compared the 
quantity of heat set free in the coils of an electro-magnet rotating between 
strong magnetic poles, with the mechanical power necessary to produce this rota- 
tion, (Phil. Mag. vol. xxiii.) For determining the heat developed in the coils of 
the rotating electro-magnet, the latter was introduced into a glass tube in such 
a manner that the interval between the magnet and the glass wall formed a ves- 
sel closed on all sides, which was filled with water. Through the heat devel- 
oped by the rotation of the electro-magnet, the temperature of this water was 
raised, and the increase of temperature carefully ascertained. In order to deter- 
mine the mechanical power required to produce the rotation, a string was wound 
around the prolongation of the axis of rotation, and the revolution of the magnet 
effected by a weight suspended to the string. From this experimenti Joule com- 
puted that, for the production of an amount of heat capable of raising one pound 
of water 1° F. a mechanical power of 838 foot-pounds is requisite, and thus the 
unit of heat corresponds to an expenditure of poiver of 460 kilogram-metres. 

To the same physicist we owe an experiment for determining the mechanical 
equivalent of heat through that which is liberated by compression of the air, 
(Kronig's Journal, iii). Into a copper reservoir A, 12 inches in length, 136^ 
cubic contents, ^-inch thickness of wall, by means of a compression pump screwed 
to it, air was pressed, as into the bulb of an air-gun, until an elastic force of 
nearly 22 atmospheres was attained. During this operation the copper reservoir, 
together with the pump, was immersed in a vessel which held 45 pounds 3 ounces 
of water. By 300 strokes of the piston the air in the vessel was condensed from 
1 to 21.654 atmospheres, and so much heat was thereby developed that the tem- 
perature of cool water rose 0°.645 F. This increase of temperature, how- 
ever, did not arise alone from the compression of the air, but also from the 
friction of the piston. To elinunate this last, the tube through which the air 
had been introduced was closed, and it was found that, through 300 strokes of 
the jjiston, which now were not attended by a compression of the air in the 
reservoir, the temperature of the cool water was raised 0°.297 F. By this 
first experiment, therefore, on computing the results of compression of the air, 
an elevation of temperature of 0°.348 F. is given. 

After making the necessary reductions and corrections, it now resulted that 
through the compression of 2956 cubic inches of dry air, of atmospheric density, 
into a space of 136.5 cubic inches, such a quantity of heat was developed as was 
necessary to raise the temperature of one pound of ^tater 13°.628 F. This is 
equivalent to the quantity of heat required to raise the temperature of 3437 
grams of water 1° vJ. 



PRINCIPLES OF THE MECHANICAL THEORY OF HEAT. 251 



Fig. 5. 




Let us now seek to determine the mechanioal power wliicli is required in 
order to compress 2956 cubic inches of air, of atmospheric density, to a 
21.G54-fohi density. For this purpose we will conceive the quantity of air 
just mentioned to be contained in a tube a h, (Fig. 5, j which is supposed to 
be 21.051 feet long-, and to have such a transverse section (H.37G square 
inches) that the contents of 
a portion of this tube one 
foot long shall be equal to 
the contents of the vessel A, 
(13G.5 cubic inches) ; thus 
the above compression will 
plainly ensue if we force a 
piston from the upper end a 
down to the point c, which 
is situated one foot above 
the bottom of the tube. If 
now lines be drawn at differ- 
ent points of the tube per- 
pendicular to its axis, and 
of a length always propor- 
tional to the pressure under 
which the included air stands, 
and if the piston be driven 
to the })oint c, so that the line 
c g shall be 21.G54 times as 
great as a /, the curve / h i g, 
which connects the terminal 
points of the above lines, will 
be a j)oi1ion of an equilateral hyperbola, and the hyperbolic surface a c g h J 
will represent the power v»'hich must have been employed in pressing the piston 
down from a to c. Let us denote gc hy y,h c by x, and h a by x'; thus the 

x' 
contents of the surface in question will be H=a;- y- log nat- and if a;=l 

H=^ • log nat x', or 

11=2.2020, ■ y log x' . . . . . (1) 
if log represent the common logarithm referable to 10 as a base. By the test of 
experiment the barometer stood at 30.2 English inches, which makes on the 
transverse section of our tube 1G8.5 pounds. The line fa thus represents to us 
the pressure 168.5, bat g c the pressure 21.G54 X 168.5=3648.7. Let us nowput 
in equation (1) a;'=21.654 and j/=3648.7 ; we shall thus have 

11=2.3026 X 3648.7 log 21.654=11220 foot-pounds, 
as the expenditure of power which is required to compress 2956 cubic inches of air 
of atmospheric density intoa space 21.654 times smaller, whereby, as has beensecu 
3.437 units of heat are developed. 

Hence, according to these experiments, 3437 units of heat are the thermic 
equivalent for an expenditure of power of 11220 foot-pounds, or 1552 kih)- 
gram-metres. In order, therefore, to produce one unit of heat through compres- 
sion of the air, an expenditure of poiver of 451 kilogram-metres is needed. 

For the purpose of measuring the absorption of heat which results from the 
discharge of compressed air, the vessel A, after the air had been couipressed in 
it to 22 atmospheres, was placed in a reservoir containing 21 pounds of water. 
As the compressed air was now allowed to escape from the vessel A through a 
leaden pipe, the temperature of the surrounding water was found to be lowered 
4.°1 F. With due regard to all necessary correctiou.^, it may be hence com- 
puted thattlie quantity of heat which disap})ears by the discharge of the air from 



252 PRINCIPLES OF THE MECHANICAL THEORY OF HEAT. 

tlie vessel is perhaps just as great as that which is developed in the vessel through 
the compression of the air. In this experiment the escaping air has to overcome 
the resistance of the atmosphere, and thus to perform a mechanical work. 

In another series of experiments, to the vessel A, in which air had been com- 
pressed to 22 atmospheres, was screwed, by means of a short metallic pipe, an 
equally large vessel B, exhausted of air, and after both vessels, A and B, had been 
placed in the same reservoir, holding 16^ pounds of water, a suitably adapted 
cock was opened, so that half of the air compressed in A could flow over into B. 
Through this process no observable change of temperature was produced in the 
water surrounding the vessels A and B, whence Joule draws the conclusion that 
no change of temperature occurs when air expands in such a ivay as to create no 
mechanical power. 

When the two receivers A and B were placed in separate vessels of water, a 
lowering of temperature of 2°. 36 F. was observed in the vessel which con- 
tained the receiver A, out of which flowed the compressed air, wbile the water 
which suiTounded the receiver B, into which the air flowed, acquired a nearly 
equal elevation of temperature. 

Hirn, also, {Theorie mechaniqiie cle la chaleur, Paris, 1865,) has made a series 
of experiments for the determination of the mechanical equivalent of heat, among 
which we adduce that on the development of heat through the compression of 
lead as being distinguished at once for its simplicity and conclusiveness. 

A cylinder A, of wrought iron, 350 kilograms in weight, which we will call 
the hammer, is suspended by two pairs of strings about three metres in length, 
as is shown by Fig. 6. Opposite to this cylinder is suspended in like manner 

Figr. 6. 




a prismatic block of sandstone, of the weight of 941 kilograms, which we will 
term the anvil, and which is furnished on the side opposed to the hammer with an 
iron plate C. Between the hammer and anvil is placed a cylindrical piece of lead 
P, having a weight of 2.948 kilograms, and supported by a light wooden holder, 
{Holzgahel.) This piece of lead is in part hollowed out in the direction of its axis. 
Its temperature before the experiment Avas ascertahied by means of a thermometer 
temporarily introduced into the cavity to be 7°. 87. 

The haiiimer was now drawn back 'by a pulley until it reached the position A', 
and then again released. In recovering its position of equilibrium, it delivered 
a strong blow upon the lead, which compressed and heated. Yet Avas not the 
entire living force of the falling hammer spent in the compression of the lead; 
for, after impact, the stone block and iron cylinder Avere again driven somcAvhat 
apart. According to an experiment of this kind, the height of fall of the 




PRINCIPLES OF THE MECHANICAL THEORY OF HEAT. 253 

hammer was 1.166 metre; tlie recoil of the same after impact 0.087 metre; the 
recoil of the anvil after impact 0.103 metre. Ilenco the living force which the 
iron hammer had attained in falling was, 

L=350- 1.166=408.100 metre-kilograms; 
but the living force with which hammer and anvil after the blow recoiled from one 
another was, 

Z=0.103 (941-f2.95) + 0.087- 350 = 127-677 metre-kilograms; 
the living force, therefore, expended in the compression of the lead is, 
L—?=408.100— 127.677=280.423 metre-kilograms. 
In order to determine the quantity of heat which was developed through the 
compression of the lead, the latter, after receiving Fis- 8. 

the blow, was quickly withdrawn from between the 
hammer and anvil, and by means of two threads, 
W'hich had been already attached to it, was sus- 
pended in the manner shown at Fig. 8. Into the 
cavity of the compressed piece of lead, 18.5 
grams of water at0° C. were poured, and the tem- 
perature thereof, which very quickly became the 
same with that of the lead, was ascertained by 
means of an immersed thermometer. This tempera- 
ture w'as: 

4 minutes after the impact 12°.10 

8 minutes after the impact .... 11°. 75 
Thus in four minutes, from the end of the fourth 

minute to the end of the eighth, the cooling amounted to 0°.35. If we assume, 
now, what may at least be accepted as an approximation, that the rate of cooling, 
during the first four minutes after the blow, was maintained during the following 
four minutes, we have 11.75 : 0.35 = 12.1 : x; whence results a;=0.36. Since, 
therefore, the temperature of the lead had, at the moment of compression, been 
12°.10-|-0°.36=12°.46,the calefaction from the blow would be 12°.46 — 7°.87= 
4°.59 ; consequently, the quantity of heat developed through the collision is, 
4°.59 • 2.948 • 0.03145-|-12.46 • 0.0185=0.656 units of heat, since 0.03145 is 
the specific heat of lead. 

If we divide the work spent in the compression of the lead, 280.423 metre- 
kilograms, by the coiTesponding quantity of heat, 0.656 thermic units, we obtain 
the work necessary for producing one thermic unit, 

280.423 .„„ , , ., 
——-—-- = 427 metre-kilofjrams. 
0.656 =' 

Instead of this number, however, 425.2 is the result, if the cooling of the lead 
is not calculated approximately, as above, but by exact formulas, 

IV. — EQUIVALENCE OF HEAT AND WORK. 

As a mean, there results, from the best experiments which have been made 
on this subject, 424 metre-kilograms as the mechanical equivalent of heat, or, to 
use a more accurate expression, the ivork equivalent of the unit of heat ; and tho 
quantity of heat A, which corresponds to the unit of work, is 

^=—=0.002358 units of heat; 
424 

that is to say, the caloric equivalent of tho work unit is 0.002358 units of heat; 
by the expenditure of one metre-kilogram, therefore, 0.002358 miits of heat may 
be generated. 



254 PRINCIPLES OF THE MECHANICAL THEORY OF HEAT. 

But if heat can be generated by meclianical power, so inversely must heat he 
competent to j)roduce mechanical effects, and, in fact, according to the mechanical 
theory of heat, one heat unit must be regarded as capable of performing the work 
of 424 metre-kilograms, or, in other words, for each metre-kilogram of work per- 
formed 0.002358 units of heat must be expended. 

This equivalent results, in the first place, theoretically, if we assume as known 
the ratio of the specific heat of gases, under constant pressure and in constant 
volume, as well as the coefficients of the expansion of the gases. One cubic 
metre of air at 0°, under ordinaiy atmospheric pressure, weighing 1.293 kilogram 
must be heated to 273° C, if, with unaltered volume, its elasticity be augmented to 
two atmospheres. But for this are required, 

273 X 1.293 X 0.1686 = 59 units of heat, 

since 0,1686 is the specific heat of air with constant volume. But if one cubic 
metre of air at 0°, with atmospheric pressure, be raised to the temperature of 
273° 0., while, with constant pressure, it is free to expand, its volume will be 
increased to two cubic metres, and the quantity of heat necessary, therefore, is 

273 X 1.293 X 0.2377=83 units of heat, 

since 0.2377 is the specific heat of air with constant pressure. The difference, 
83 — 59 = 24 units of heat, is thus necessary, over and above the increase of 
temperature, to expand the gas, under constant pressure, to double the volume. 
Let us now inquire into the quantity of mechanical work thereby performed. 
Let us conceive the above-mentioned quantity of air enclosed in a hollow cylin- 
der, having a transverse section of one square metre, and confined above by a 
moving piston, which, at its starting point, is elevated one metre above the immov- 
able floor. On this piston the atmosphere bears with a pressure of 10333 kilo- 
grams. If the enclosed air, with unaltered pressure, be now expanded to a 
double volume, it must necessarily push the piston one metre, which corresponds 
to a mechanical work of 10,333 kilogram-metres. Thus to execute a mechanical 
work of 10333 metre-kilograms, 24 units of heat are necessary ; hence one unit 

10333 
of heat coiTesponds to a mechanical work of =430 kilogram-metres, a 

result which so nearly coincides with that obtained in the inverse way, namely, 
b}'^ conversion of mechanical work into heat, that no doubt of the complete reci- 
jDrocity between mechanical work and heat can longer exist. 

The experiments and observations above recited have served to establish the 
proposition that " /« all cases in which ivorh is xjroduced by heat, a quantity of 
heat proportional to the worlt produced disappears or is consumed, and that inversely 
the same quantity of heat may he generated by the expenditure of an equal amount 
of ivorlc;" a proposition which is usually received as the fii'st law of the mechan- 
ical theory of heat, and which, with this degree of precision and generality, was 
first enunciated by Clausius. It is the proposition which forms the starting point 
of the mathematical development of the mechanical theory of heat, and in regard 
to it the learned have furnished us with a series of articles in PoggendorfF's An- 
nalen. These articles, accompanied by annotations by Friedrich Vieweg and 
son, have recently (1865) appeared at Brunswick in a single volume. 

Besides Clausius ; Holzmann, Clapeyron, W. Thomson, Rankine, and others 
have occupied themselves with the mathematical development of the mechanical 
theory of heat, while Zeuner may claim the merit of having collected in a clear 
and comprehensive fonn the leading characteristics of the theory and of having 
illustrated it by manifold applications, (Grundzilge der mechanischen Wcirme- 
tJieorie, 1st edition, 1860, 2d, 1866, Leipzig.) Another highly acceptable work 
on this important subject is the Theoric mecanique de la chaleur, by Hirn, (2d 
edition, Paris, 1865,) in which, together with the analytic development, the 
experimental part is very thoroughly treated. 



PRINCIPLES OF THE MECHANICAL THEORY OF HEAT. 255 

In all these writing's tlic raeclianical theory of heat is developed, as it needs 
must be when a general and complete solution of tlie pro1)leni is contemplated, 
through a certain amount of the higher mathematical analysis. In what follows, 
however, I shall endeavor to set forth at least the most important principles 
thereof in an elementary form, and, bj- the application of these principles to 
saturated vapors, to show some material consequences of their action. I shall 
hope, thereby, not only to communicate a right idea of the nature and significa- 
tion of the theory in question to, those who are deficient in a knowledge of the 
difierential and integral calculus, but also to supply to those who may be provided 
with that learning, a sort of introduction or preparation for the more thorough 
stutly of those doctrinal difficulties which are apt to oppose themselves at the 
entrance upon such an investigation. But before proceeding to a nearer consid- 
eration of the grounds of the mechanical theory of heat, we will examine more 
definitely the loss ofhcaf, corresponding, in some particular cases, to t\io 2J€r/orm- 
ancc of work. 

Y. — DISAPPEARANCE OF HEAT THROTTGH THE PERFORMANCE OF WORK. 

By a large number of experiments directed to the subject under consideration, 
Hirn has shown that in steam-engines a quantity of heat disappears directly 
corresponding to the work executed, he having emjdoyed with that view engines 
of from 90 to 150 horse-power. The machines with which he experimented were 
of the expansion order, in which the steam, after it had operated, passed (^ff into 
a condenser. In order to avoid errors which might arise from water beiu"- 
mechanically carried over by the engine from the boiler, or steam already con- 
densed in the expansion, Hirn caused the machinery to work with overheated 
steam, which he procured by means of an appropriate apparatus, whereby the 
vapors proceeding from the boilt-r were heated, before their entrance into the 
cylinder, to a definite temperature ascertained by a thermometer. 

The quantity of water j; which entered, in a second, the vessel for evapora- 
tion, and arrived through the machine in the condenser, was ascertained by exact 
measurement of the quantity ot water which, during the space of a whole day, 
was conveyed by the feed-pump into the boiler, under a uniform working of the 
machine, and with an unchanged height of water in the boiler. In like manner 
the quantity of water P immitted each second into the condenser was ascertained 
by the determination of the quantity of water of condensation discharged during 
a whole day under a miiform influx. 

The quantity of heat given up by the steam condensed during each second, 
was found in the following manner: If t be the tem[)erature at which the steam 
is formed in the boiler, then according to Ilegnault's experiments, the whole 
quantity of heat which is contained in one kilogram of steam at this tem})erature 
more than that contained in one kilogram of water at 0°, is qi=iG0G.5-\-O.305t 
units of heat. But this steam, l)ef'ore its entrance into the cylinder of the steam 
engine, is heated to the degree of T, whence there is further necessary for each 
kilogram of steam (/2=0..'3 (T — t) units of heat, if we take, as may be done with 
approximative correctness, 0.5 as the specific heat of the steam. 

The ([uantity of heat which this kilogram of steam loses, until it is condensed 
and cooled to the temperature of/ degrees, with which the water of condensation 
leaves the condenser, is thus qi-{-q2 — -f, and hence the whole quantity of heat, 
which the quantity of steam jjj traversing the engine every second gives up, is 

:=p [GUG.5+ 0.305 /+0.5 (T— /)—/]. 

If, now, no heat were consumed by the performance of work in the cylinder 
the whole quantity of heat Qi must be carried over to the condenser, and lien 
serve to raise the temperature of the condensation-water. If i be the temperature, 
at which that water enters the condenser, but/ the temperature at which it issues 
therefrom, i\\cnf- — i is the quantity of lieat which each kilogram of condensation- 



256 PEINCIPLES OF THE MECHANICAL THEORY OF HEAT. 

water takes up in tlie condenser, whence the quantity of heat Q2 which is taken 
up, in each second, by the condensation-water is Qa^P (/ — i,) and thus must 
Qi=:Q3 if no heat be expended for the work. But experiment shows in fact that 
Qi — Q2 is in nowise equivalent to nothing. In such an experiment, for example, in 
which the ratio of expansion was 1 : 2, the tension of the steam in the boiler 
gave a result equal to 4.5 atmospheres, and thus ^=148°. 3. Also, 
T— f=91°.7 

jj=0. 34554 kilograms. Pk=5. 84004 kilograms. 

/=37°.28 «=:5°.l 

whence results, 

Qi=228.16 Q2=187.82 

Qi — Q3=40.34 units of heat. 
There had, consequently, been 40.34 units of heat expended for the work 
done, while the net efiect of the machine was found, by Prony's dynamometer 
equal to 11250 metre-kilograms, and hence there results for one unit of heat 
consumed 

=278 metre-kilograms, 

40.34 ^ ' 

as the practical or net effect. 

By another experiment with the same machine, in which the ratio of expan- 
sion was 1 : 6, the following values were given : 

^=152°.2 T— ^=93° 

j;=0. 23548 kilograms. P=5.8718 kilograms. 

/=2°.605 ■ *=3°.2 

whence there results 

Qi — Q2=158.81 — 123.3=30.51 units of heat, 

■while the net effect of the machine was found equal to 8700 metre-kilograms, and 
thus, for one unit of heat consumed, there results 

S'^OO „„^ .1-1 

^285 metre-kilograms, 

30.51 "^ 

Thus it will be seen from these premises that not only is there really a con- 
sumption of heat for mechanical work, but also that the practical effect of steam- 
engines is very nearly proportional to the loss of heat. 

We might, from these investigations alone, calculate the mechanical equivalent 
of heat, if the practical effect measured were equal to the whole work done 
by the steam. Let us suppose now that the net effect of the machine amounted 
to about 70 per cent, of the entire work done by the steam, and we shall 
have, as the mean of the two above experiments, the mechanical equivalent of 
heat equal to 400 metre-kilograms. 

In like manner Clausius derived from a great number of experiments, which 
were conducted with steam-engines by Hirn, the number 413 as the mean value 
for the mechanical equivalent of heat. Now, if we assume the mechanical 
equivalent of heat equal to 424, it would result from the two experiments, whose 
details have been given above, that the practical effect of these machines amounts 
to about 66 per cent, of the whole work done by the steam. 

Every process which is of a nature to produce heat can also perform mechani- 
cal work ; but such work is always attended by a corresponding consump- 
tion of heat, or, in other words, the quantity of heat produced by a definite 
process suffers a corresponding diminution, it" together with the generation of 
heat mechanical effect is produced. This proposition is well illustrated by the 
electro-magnetic motor. When an electric current traverses the metallic coils of 
a magnetizing spiral, the wire is heated, and the heat produced, in a given time, 
in the whole circuit is expressed by the equation 



PRINCIPLES OF THE MECHANICAL THEORY OF HEAT. 257 

where s indicates the quantity of the current, I tlic total resistance of tlie 
circuit, and Ic a constant factor. The quantity of heat produced, liowever, is, 
under like conditions, always proportional to the consumption of zinc in the 
Lattery, (local action being of coui'se disregarded.) Were the conducting wire, 
for instance, so much lengthened that the whole resistance of tlie circuit would 
be doubled, and-thus raised to 21, the quantity of the current and consumption of 
zinc would be thereby reduced to half, but tlie heat produced by the cuiTent 
would be 

Thus with the quantity of current and consumption of zinc, the production of heat 
also would be reduced to half. 

Quite otherwise is the result when the diminution of the quantity of the current 
is ])roduced, not by the augmentation of the resistance to conduction, but by the 
expenditure of powei". 

In a pn.'vious section of this work it has been seen that the strength of the 
current, which traverses any electro-magnetic motor in a state of repose, is instantly 
re(hiccd when the motor begins to rotate, and that the current becomes weaker 
as the rotation is more rapid. Let us suppose that the burden of the machine be 
so regulated that the strength of the current of the rotating machine be just 
half as great as in that at rest, then, with the quantity of current reduced to half, 
the consumption of zinc will also be reduced to half j but the production of heat 
will have decreased in a quite different proportion. Since now the strength of 
the current is ^ s, but the resistance the same as in the machine at rest, namely, 
I, we shall have as the quantity of heat produced 

Thus the zinc consumption reduced to half produces only a quantity of heat 
reduced to one-fourth ; a part of the zinc-consumpUon, therefore, is not employ edin 
the production of heat, hut in the performance of mechaniccd worJc, or, in other 
words, for the quantity of heat ^ w, an equivalent mechanical work has been 
performed. 

We observe a similar state of things if we investigate the performance of labor 
by human or animal forces. Animal heat, we know, is generated by a slow com- 
bustion, kept up through the process of breathing. For the oxygen which we 
inspire, carbonic ac^id and vajxjr are exhaled ; with every breath, therefore, a 
dehnite quantity of carbon and hydrogen leaves the body, and the corporeal 
mass must necessanly undergo a corresponding diminution ; a diminution which, 
if iKjt determinable by weight foi' every breath, is readily so for an interval of a 
few hours. This loss of material ;n the process of breathing is replaced through 
the recej)tion of food. 

But the proportiim between the producticjn of heat and the consumption of 
corporeal matter is quite diirerent, according as the person remains perfectly at 
rest, or is engaged' in the performance of some more or less considerable labor. 
The production of heat and consiniq)tion of oxygen, and, consequently, the bodily 
diminution of weight, are at a minimum, if the individual continues for some 
time sitting or lying in complete inactivity. If he perform, on the contrary, some 
sticmious labor, both the consumj^tion of oxygen and the reduction of weight 
will be foimd in the same space of time to have been much more sensible. 
Through the accelerated breathing and more rapid ])ulsation the ])roduction oi 
heat in the b(jdy is undoubted!}' augmented, l)ut it results from the j)rincii)les of 
the mechanical theory of heat that the development of warmth cannot bo taken 
as directly proportional to the consumption of oxygen, but that the increased 
interchange of matter in the l)ody serves only in i)art for the jiroduction of heat, 
while the rest has been spent in the producing mechanical eilect. 

The coiTcctness of this proposition has been verified by Uirn in a series of 
17 S 



258 PEINCIPLES OF THE MECHANICAL THEORY OF HEAT. 

carefully conducted experiments. With this view he occupied a small hemieti- 
cally-closcd chamber, constructed of deal-boards, and lighted by a glass window, 
the contents of which chamber measured about four cubic metres. At one end 
of this structure was a chair on which he sat when occupied with the develop- 
ment of heat imder conditions of repose. At the other end was a tread-wheel, 
the axis of which passed, but so as to be air-tight, through the wall, and was 
connected on the outside with such an apparatus that by the turning of the 
wheel a mechanical work was executed. The quantity of this labor performed 
at each revolution of the wheel is manifestly equal to the lifting of the bodily 
weight of the experimenter to a height represented by the circumference of the 
wheel. By means of a counter adapted to the axis of the tread-wheel, the 
number of revolutions in a given time could be counted, while the quantity of 
external mechanical work done in an hour could be determined with great 
accuracy. 

Before the mouth of the experimenter a valve apparatus was attached, from 
which a caoutchouc tube was carried to a gasometer which furnished the air 
required for breathing, while a second tube of like material passed to another 
gasometer which received the exhaled gases ; these, as well as the air inhaled, 
were carefully analyzed. The chamber was placed in the midst of a larger 
apartment, the temperature of which varied but little and slowly. Sensitive 
thermometers gave the tenq)erature of the air both without and within the cham- 
ber. If, during repose or labor, the interior thermometer had become stationary, 
its indication was noted, and the valve apparatus placed before the mouth, so 
that the consumption of oxygen during an unaltered condition of the experimenter 
might be ascertained. 

It is clear that if the interior thermometer ceased to rise, the loss of heat in 
the chamber through its walls had become equal to the quantity of heat which 
the experimenter developed. By a series of preliminary experiments. Him had 
determined what quantity of heat must be developed within the chamber, in 
order to maintain within and without definite ditFerences of temperature. With 
this view a flame of hydrogen gas, supplied by a constant stream, was suffered 
to burn in the interior of the chamber. For a definite magnitude of the flame, 
when the condition of equilibrium is attained, a determinate difference of tem- 
perature within and without the chamber is established ; and when the quantity 
of hydrogen consumed in a given time is ascertained, we can calculate what 
quantity of heat has been developed in that time, since we know how many miits 
of heat are developed by the burning of one gram of hydrogen, {§ 277.) From 
the repetition of these experiments for different sizes of flame, Hirn obtained 
the empirical law on which depends the excess of temperature in the interior from 
the quantity of heat there developed, and he could thus deduce, in later experi- 
ments, from the observed difference of temperature the quantity of heat developed 
by the experimenter. 

When, during such an experiment, Hirn occupied the chamber, he found that, 

with absolute rest of his person, 29.65 grams of oxygen were consumed in an 

hour, while the development of heat during that time amounted to 155 units of 

155 
heat, [calories,) being -, or 5.22 units of heat to one gram of oxygen. 

When, on the other hand, the experimenticr labored on the tread-wheel, so 
that the work done in an hour amounted to 27448 metre-kilograms, the con- 
sumption of oxygen in that space of time was 131.74 grams, while the quantity 
of heat developed, as indicated by the thermometer, amounted to 251 units. 

In the state of rest, however, the 131.74 grams of oxygen consumed would 
be 131.74 X 5.22=087.68 units of heat, and thus 436.68 would be exhibited 
more than had in fact been developed; but instead of the vanished 436.68 units 
of heat, work had been done, partly without, on the tread-wheel, and partly 
within, in the oro^anism itself. 



PRINCIPLES OF THE MECHANICAL THEORY OF HEAT. 259 

In a second experiment tlie external work done amounted in an hour to 
20750 metre-kilograms, while 112.2 grams of oxygen were consmned, and 255.6 
units of heat produced. These 112.2 grams of oxygen would, in a state of 
rest, have atlorded 5S5.7 units of heat; thus 585.7 — 255.6 = 330.1, and, conse- 
quently, 330.1 units of heat more than the experiment shows. 'J'hese 330.1 units 
of heat have been hence expended in mechanical work; but the cpiantities of heat 
consumed in both experiments for mechanical work, 436.68 and 330.1 stand, in 
fact, in relation to the external work done ; for, from the proportion 

330.1 : 436.68=20750 : x 
results .T=27450, which coincides (piite nearly with the observed number 27448. 

A strong horse, when he remains standing at rest in a stal)le, is amply nourished 
with 7.5 kilograms of hay, and 2.5 kilograms of oats, which, together, contain 
4 kilograms of carbon. But as soon as tlie horse is put to work this aniovmt of 
nourishment does not suffice; it is necessary, if he is to be kept in good condition, 
to add 5.i> kilograms of oats, which contain 2.2 kilograms of carbon. On a day 
of work, therefore, 6.2 kilograms of carbon are supplied to this animal's body. 

As the power of one horse executes, in a second, a work of 75 inetre-kilograms, 
the work done in 8 hours equals 75 • 60 • 60 • 8, or 2,160,000 metre-kilograms, 
According to the experiments (tf Favre and Silbermann, by the oxidation of one 
kilogram of carbon 8080 units of heat are developed, which corresponds to a 
mecluinical work of 8080 • 424, or 3,425,920 metre-kilograms. Hence the day's 
work jierformed by a horse, 2,100,000 metre-kilograms, corresponds to a consump- 
tion of 

2160000 nroi-1 f 1 

= 0.03 kuoOTam of carbon. 

3425920 ^ 

Of the nutriment, therefore, supplied to the horse's body for a day's work, namely, 
6.2 kilograms of carbon, only 0.63, l)eing about Jg-, is expended for the perform- 
ance of mechanical labor, the rest being partly used for the sustentation of animal 
life, for the production of heat, and in part passing unoxidized through the body. 
According to Bonssingault only 65 per cent, of the carbon introduced into the 
body is oxidized, while 35 per cent, is given off unconsumed. Of the four 
pounds of carbon, therefore, which the horse at rest takes for his daily nourish- 
ment, only 2.6 pounds, and of the additional 2.2 kilograms of carbon alhitted for 
days of labor only 1.4 kilogram arrive at oxidation in the body of the animal. 
Hence in a day of rest there are produced in the horse's body 8080 • 2.6 = 21008 
units of heat. C)f the 1.4 kilogram of carbon, further oxidized on days of labor, 
0.63 are consumed in mechanical work, while the remaining 0.77 kilogram 
(1.4 — 0.63) go to sujiply the increase<l heat production of 8080-0.77 = 6221 units. 
Thus on a day of work the heat developed in the horse's body ascends to 27229 
units, while only 8080 • 0.63 = 5090 units of heat are converted into work. 

VI. ELEMENTS OF THE MECHAXICAL THEORY OF HEAT. 

If we conceive heat to be a molecular movement, the temperature of a body 
is to be taken as proportional to the vis-viva inherent in the material atoms 
which move in some way, perhaps viliratc around their position of eipiilibrium. 
An increase of temperature consists, therefore, in an augmentation of this vis-viva, 
and hence in an enhanced velocity of tlie molecular movement. 

Not all the heat, however, added to a body contributes to tlie raising of its 
temperature; and hence not all the heat added to it is employed in the augmenta- 
tion of the active vis-viva of its molecular vibrations, for a ])art of the heat may, 
under conditions, be consumed in order to overcome the molecular forces which 
exert an action between the several atoms of the body and present an imjiedi- 
nient to their free movement. This last heat, which Clausius denotes as that 
consumed in internal work, is usually called latent heat. 



260 PRINCIPLES OF THE MECHANICAL THEORY OF HEAT. 



If we designate the free lieat of a body by T, the latent heat, Avhich it may 
contain, by L, the whole quantity of heat in the body will be U=T-|-L. 

W. Thomson has proposed for this quantity, first introduced into the doctrine 
of heat by Olausius, the name of energij of the body ; but Clausius has recently 
designated the two components of U as store of heat, T, (Warmeinhalt,) and 
store of work, L, [Werldnlmlt.) 

If now so mucli heat be added to a body of the temperature f and the volume 
V, in which the collective quantity of heat, U, (energy,) is contained, that its 
temperature be increased by f °, its volume by v' cubic metres, and the quantity of 
heat contained within it by U', it will not answer to ascribe to it this quantity of 
heat U', because through the simultaneous expansion of the body by v' an external 
work has been done which consumes a corresponding quantity of heat. 

If p be the pressure under which the body stands, then the external work 
which coiTesponds to the enlargement of volume v' will be p v', supposing the 
pressure p to remain unaltered during the whole expansion ; but the quantity of 
heat corresponding to that work is iv-=A.p v'. Thus the quantity of heat which 
must be supplied to the body in question in order to increase its temperature from 
tio t-i-t'j its volume from v to v+v', and the heat contained in it from U to 
U + li' is, 

q=W-\-Apv' .... I 

an equation which corresponds to the differential equation 

d Q=d U-j-A^ d V . . . la 
in W'hich d Q designates the very small quantity of heat which must be supplied 
to the body, in order for the interior heat" of the body to undergo the small aug- 
mentation d U and its volume to be increased by the small magnitude d v. 

The equation I or rather a differential equation corresponding to it, is the 
mathematical expression of the first Jaw of the mechanical theory of heat. By 
the help of this equation we can calculate the quantity of heat which disappears 
through a given change of volume of a body submitted to a given pressure, pro- 
vided we know the whole wor^i done thereby ; which is, however, only the 
case when we have to do exclusively tvith external work without the accession of 
any internal work proceeding from molecular forces, and which evades a direct 
measurement. The first law, therefore, of the mechanical theory of lieat suffices 
only for the solution of correspondent problems when in the magnitude U' of the 
equation I or in d U of the equation I a an internal work is not comprehended, 
a condition which is only satisfied by bodies of a completely gaseous form. 

The folhnving examples will illustrate the application of the first law of the 
mechanical theory of heat to gaseous botlies. In a hollow cylinder, (Fig. 9,) hav- 
ing a transverse section of one square metre, is situated 
at the distance of one metre from the bottom an easily 
movable, hut air-tight, piston K ; the space of one 
cubic metre, shut in by this piston, is filled with atmo- 
spheric air at 0°, Avhile the pressure of the atmosphere 
weighs on the piston ; and hence the total pressure which 
tends to sink the piston is 10333 kilograms. 

If this mass of air, the pressure unchanged, be heated 
to 273° it will be expanded to double its original vol- 
ume; the piston, during this expansion, will be thrust 
one metre higher, and thus be brought into the position K^. 
The work so done is 10333 metre-kilograms, and 
the quantity of heat, A j) r', consumed in doing this 
work is, in that case, 

— ^-^=24.37 units of heat. 
424 

The total heat, q, which must T)0 supplied to a cubic 

metre of air at 0° and under ' atmospheric pressure 




PRINCIPLES OF THE MECHANICAL THEORY OP HEAT. 261 

(1.293 kilograms of air) in order to raise it to a temperature of 273°, while, ^\•itll 
pressure uuchanged, it is expanded to double its volume, is 
273 • 1.293 • 0.2377=83 units of heat, 
since the specific heat of the air imder constant pressure is ecpial to 0.2377 ; 
hence we have S3 = U'+24.37, or U'=83-24.37=58.63. 

Thus, of the §3 units of heat which we supply to the 1.293 kilogram of air, in 
order to raise its temperature from 0° to 273°, while with unaltered pressure it 
undergoes expansion to twice its original volume, 58. G3 units of heat liave gone 
over into this air, while the remaining 24.37 units of heat were expended in 
doing the work involved in its expansion. In order, then, to raise the tem- 
perature of 1.293 kilograms of air from 0° to 273°, while the volume of the air 
remains unaltered, and so no external work is done, only 58.63 units of heat 
are necessary. The specific heat of the air under constant pressure stands, there- 
fore, to the specific heat of the air under constant volume as 83 : 58.G.3, or as 
1.415 : 1 ; while this ratio has been found, in another manner, to be as 1.421 to 1. 

We have here supposed the mechanical equivalent of heat to be known, and from 
this derived the ratio of the specific heat of the air under constant pressure and 
constant volume, while in § 4 the inverse process was followed, inasnmch as we 
assumed tliis last ratio to be known, and from thence derived the mechanical equiv- 
alent of heat. 

The quantity of heat q which must be supplied to a body in order to raise its 
temperature from t to t-\-t', to increase the heat contained in it from U to U-fU', 
and to enlarge its volume from v to v-\-v'j is b}' no means the same under all 
circumstances ; for, with a like condition at the beginning and the ending, the 
work done during the transition from the first to the last may be very 
different. The equation I is properly constructed only for a special case ; for the 
case, namely, in which the pressure p remains unaltered while the volume of the 
body enlarges from v to v-{-v'. When the pressure jj is variable the equation I 
can only so long be recognized as valid, as the augmentation v' of volume is 
small enough to be regarded as the differential of space ; as is the case with 
the differential equation I a corresponding to the equation I. 

But when, with a variable value of p, the enlargement of volume v' is some- 
what considerable, the work done during the expansion from v to v-\-v' can 
no longer be expressed simply by the product ^^f'. Here the case presents itself 
W'hen a higher method of calculation must indispensably be ])ut in practice, if 
the object be an exact expression for the work done. With elementary 
expedients we can, in such cases, only attain, by special calculations, to aj)proxi- 
mative values. 

Let us procec<l, in order to make this more intelligible, to the consideration of 
a special case. We have above calculated the quantity of lieat q which is reciuisite 
to raise a cubic metre of air of 0° and sustaining atmospheric pressure, to 273°, 
while the air expands luider an unvarying pressure to doul)leits original volume. 
Uere is the final condition : two cubic metres of air of 273° temperature and an 
elasticity of one atmosphere. The same final condition can, however, be also 
reached, beginning with the same incipient condition in another manner. Let 
the piston (Fig. 9) be again in its original position K, and, under it in the cylin- 
der, one cul»ic metre of air at 0° sustaining atmospheric pressure, the burden of 
the piston being thus 10333 kilograms. If this weight be now slowly and regu- 
larly diminished to one-half, the air will gradually expand and push the piston 
upwards; thus there should, in the first place, be so much heat supplied to the 
air that, witli an unchanged temperature^ of 0°, tlie i)iston is lieaved u[i\vards (»ue 
metre, and the vcdnmc of air therefore doubled. 

Tlie quantity of heat necessary for this is only to be detennincd by Iiighcr 
processes of calcuIaLion, but an approximate value may be olttained in an 
elementary way. Let us conceive the pressure ^>, which weighs ujion the piston 



262 PRINCIPLES OF THE MECHANICAL THEORY OF HEAT. 



when it occupies the position K, to be not constantly diminisTied, but to bo with- 
drawn at suitable intervals, each time some ^— p, the pressure bearing upon the 

piston will then conform to the succession of values exhibited in the first column 
of the followinjy table under D : 



D 


H 


h 


AD 




19 


19 . 2U ' 


1 , 

20''' 


18 
20 P 




^^ I 
18. J9' 


A^' 


17 
20^ 


P 


17.18' 


,:V' 


20 '^ 


f?^ 


^' I 
12. ll' 


k"' 


10 
20^ 


20^ 
lU 


20 
10. Ill 


yi 



If we denote by I the height of the piston above the floor, when it occupies its 
position at the commencement, it Avill ascend by the succession of diminished press- 
ures to the respective heights indicated in the second column. The height, 
therefore, through which the piston rises at each succeeding diminution of press- 
ure has the value given in the tliird column under li. 

Witliont sensible error, we can now assume that the pressure of the enclosed 
mass of air acting upon the piston from beneath remains unaltered during its 
ascent through one of the heiglits indicated in the third column under h. For this 
pressure we may assign, as a first approximation, the value of D, standing in the 
first column in the same horizontal row, which we must multiply into the cor- 
responding value of h, in order to obtain the value of the worlv which is done 
in the ascent of the piston through one of the divisions in question. The 
products tlius obtained are grouped together in tlio last cohunn under /( D. 

The total work which is done wliile the piston rises, under the indicated 
circumstances, from K to K', is therefore the sum of the values exhibited in the 
last vertical row of the above table, namely, 

12 ■ 13 ■ 14 15"^ 16"^ 17"^ 18^ 19 
The sum of the fractions standing between parentheses, which is most readily 
obtained if they be changed into decimal fractions and then added, is 0.668, and 
since iJ = 10333, while lis, 1 metre, there results for the total work L'=0.668' 
10333 =6905^ metre-kilograms. 

This value of the total work is, however, manifestly too small; for we have 
multiplied each of the heights consigned to the tliird column into the pressure 
which acts against the under surface of the piston when it stands at the upper 
end of the corresponding division. If we multiply each of the values of li into 
the pressure which acts against the piston when it is at the lower end of tlie 
division, the result will be 

V10^11^12 13^14^ 15^16^^17^18+19^^ ' 



-(!+!+' 



L'= 



^^+.^o)^^'- 



PRINCIPLES OF THE MECHANICAL THEORY OF HEAT 263 

hence L'''=0.718jj/, or putting I'or jj and I tlieir numerical value, ly'=0.71S. 
10333 = 7419 metre-kili)granis. But tins value is evidently too great ; the true 
value of the total work L is, at any rate, very nearly equal to the mean between 
Jy and L''; hence 

^ L'+L'' 6902 + 7419 ^ 'r^an . Ti 

L= — ^ — = 3 7 or Li=7160 metre-kilograms; 

and the quantity of heat necessary for the performance of this work is, 

424 424 

The exact value of ic' is found by equation (1) in § 3, if we take _?/ = 10333, 
and a'=2 ; theresult is then L=2.302G • 10333 • log 2=7153 , a value from Avhich 
that obtained above in an approximative way differs but inconsiderably. 

When, now, the piston has become fixed, so that no further expansion of the 
air is possible, 58.63 units of heat are necessary to raise the temperature of the 
included air from 0° to 273°, whereb}^ its elasticity also is enhanced from one- 
half to one *^tmosphere. Thus the final condition of the air is exactly the same 
as in the case above considered, in which the air expanded under a constant 
pressure. The <piantity of heat, however, requisite for the attainment of the final 
condition in ipiestion is, in the last case, only 58.63 + 16.88=75.51, while in the 
first case it was equal to 83. 

Thus the quantity of heat which must be supplied to a body, in order that, 
starting from a given condition, it shall pass over into a determinate final con- 
dition, is by no means an invariable magintude, but is. dependent on the magni- 
tude of the mechanical work which is done durina' that transition. 



VII.- 



-APPLICATION OF THE MECHAIflCAL THEORY OF HEAT TO AQUEOUS 

VAPOKS. . . 



Suppose that at the bottom of a hollow cylinder, of which the transverse section 
is one square metre, there is a litre of water at 0°, and 
that directly upon this is placed a piston on which a 
pressure JJ is exerted, (Fig, 10.) This pressure J9 is that 
which is equal to the elasticity of the saturated vapor of 
t°C The table on a following page, contains, accord- 
ing to Regnault's experiments, the values of j) for the 
tenqjeratures given in the first column, jj being the pres- 
sure which the saturated vapor of the corresi)onding 
temperature exerts on one square metre. 

Let the water under the piston be lunv heated from 
0° to t° ; it will thus exjiand to a magnitude which, for 
our })resent i)ur})Ose, may remain unknown. There 
needs for this elevation of temperature.a ((uantity of heat 
expressed by W=^+O.OOU02//'-f0.0000003/^, if we take 
into consideration the variableness of the specific heat 
of water; while Vl=t would be the expi-ession, were the specific heat of water 
taken as constant and equal to one. Hence the quantity of heat to be taken as 
a unit is that which is rcfjuired to raise the temperatm'e of one kilogram (one 
litre) of Avater from 0° to 1° C. During this exaltation of temperatiu-e from 0° 
to t° no steam can be formed. 

But if we continue the sapi)ly of heat, the formation of steam commences, 
and the steam has forthwith the elasticity of p ; it jiushes l)ack the ])iston, and 
the space made free is continually filled with fresh vapor, until finally all the 
water is converted into va})or. At this moment the end is attained ; the heat 
which must l)e sup})lied to the water of t° during the formation of steam with 




264 PRINCIPLES OF THE MECHANICAL THEORY OF » HEAT. 

constant xyressiire, may be denoted by r. This quantity of heat r is usually 
called latent heat ; for it disappears as regards the thermometer, and during the 
whole process the temperature t remains unaltered. 

The whole quantity of heat which, under the suppositions premised, must bo 
supplied to the water at 0°, in order to convert it into steam at t° and of the 
corresponding elasticity p, is therefore Q=W+r. But according to Reg- 
nault's investigations the quantity of heat requisite for the object in question is 
Q=606.5 + 0.305^; consequently, since r=Q—W, 

r=606.5 — 0.695^— 0.00002^2_o.oo00003^l 
Instead of this value of r, Clausius makes use of the approximate value 

r=607-0.708^ . .1) 

according to which the numerical values of the sixth vertical series of the sub- 
joined table are calculated, while the fifth column contains the corresponding 
values for Q. 

If the whole quantity of heat were exclusively expended in external work, it 
would be easy to determine, by the first law, the volume of the steam formed ; 
for we should have r=Kpu^ and since r, A, and J9 are known, we might deter- 
mine from this equation the volume ii of the space K K', (Fig. 10,) which is free 
in the cylinder under the piston, while one kilogram of water at t° is converted 
into steam at f. But the matter here is not so simple. 



PRINCIPLES OF THE MECHANICAL THEORY OF HEAT. 265 



•5^ 
a o 



M.a 




.s o a. 



C 



<tcoir!XT)>o;oor: 



^ t^ 6; c^ c^ o f- o ci 



t^ i/3 ^ C* CO 3^ Ci O ^" >— ' C< Ci CO CO C*5 ^ l^ lO ^ t^ Ou i.rfj ^ r— < i*< t-." uv w^ 'jj ^ ' — ^ ^ j "i- i^ w. f.- i. .; ». j i'* ' — ^ ^ 

o* to t'^ 00 ri o ^ H -^ lO o r^ 00 G^ o ■-- ^J ro -^ »o '-0 t^' ci o" ^ crJ CO V lo f~" X C5 o --^ tri ■^* lo to r-* ci < 
LOO»:50iri»o»?Soou^o»?5iooioo»o»r;iOir;iOootoco««5(0«o;o;ototo(0'Ococo=o<oo< 



i|So|-2 



Ci'<*'00cj'^».oo!rioco-HaDTf«05*5'00^"r^OD3^oociaoouo^>cs?ccioocooorot^— '•^ODOC* 
LOr— coc<t^c<t^7<t^:r/l^-^^oioOi'voDC?JwOma;C»coO'^aU'-'U005C7^cic:^ococooco 
tf — — -J-?-ocO"^■^lOLO;oc:^^^-^^-^o6odc-cr*oo'o■--^•^j'^>^>p^^^■^■^^L'ilnci£:ocd^^ 

cococococococococococococococococococorO'<i"r'<a*'<j'^ 






•^ a o 5 



• CO Ci CI f~ C) O C5 O 1 



t-oco^cyto— ^lf^o■^omli^CJcoox^^cDcc^'^^(?lLO^^^oolODOOOCo 



oof~ cooo r»o 

CI (~ C) o .. _ - _ - . - 

rHi-iCiCOCOO!Ocec;r:cocn'>rcr 



-l-^O-HOiCOCOt^QU— 'f^t'CITCOt-*— '3:COOOOCI^COO - ,- 

— - - - -( CO Lo "Oio o CO ■^oc: CO . 



--. r-i r-i r-. CJ CI ei(7< CO CO ■"T TJ- O lO to J~ i~ 










«/ C tn ^ ^ ':3 

"3 •-• a - •- ^ 




' to 
O s 



r-^ c^ c~! '-C ci c~* o cJ 00 »o -H Qc ^ z: ^^ r:J c5 ^x: crj o o c^j c^ in ci GO "I" --J ^^ 

!:z>«OLOoooooooiou7u^oooooir;iooir^oooinicw^oiO'^'t*'<5''V'^'V'<r'<3'-^'^ 



-^2 



e'S =5 







TrOCJt^O0ur-CJ^OC»vr'^CJ«C}OC5^-Q0O'^'^QDrHiO'»»<-iC^C3U^F-«t^tDOC»^O 

'^' 00 "-^ -^ ^^ -r — o ci ci X -^ cc' og lo ;d C'i cri Gtj o GO r^* »c ift c'* o 



rHrii-Hr^C^CiCOWV^I 



iOoo^r-'iocjcit^ir;coir5Cir;t^c»r*t^t*oa>o^ooioaot^c^oO'^'-"i»«t-t^ciooooo 

J 'JD o O; oJ cc o c: t^* ci ^ ffi fj» -■ ^^ '*r to cr5 CO --^ ^c lo a; CO -^ C"- uS o ou 



^ Qu CI t^ CO c* rr* «: -^ c- o oi CO T o ct CI 00 V — • CO c* c* lo t- o o c 

r- r-l C< CO T O f^ Ol CI O C t.O ^ C- CO 00 " OO ro CO (C C^ C< t- CC C 



'£iS 



'OCiOU'^ — lOCOOCO'T;^ 






rt.-rr-(r-lSiO»C<COCOWOtOt-<100lC 



— 3 

4^ 



a c» 



ic^cocococococococoffococococor3cocDcocococo^^^^^''^^^'^^v^^'^''»' 



= 2 O 



omoi^o^ooLooiriouooiriouooi/^OLooiooiiooincirtpKJQiooicoocioo 
"-^cicicoeO'r'<rinira!Otot>.t-a)06cr,o=o— •--ciT>cofO^V"ftirtwcor.j»floaoo5cr>o 



266 PRINCIPLES OF THE MECHANICAL THEOEY OF HEAT. 



Fig. 11. 






The quantity of lieat r, which must "be supplied to the unit weight of water at 
fj in order to convert it into saturated vapor at t°, is known, indeed, by Regnault's 
experiments, but this quantity of heat divides into two parts; one part Apu 
serves to execute the external work j);f ; it is the other part p which is expended 
in overcoming the cohesion of the particles of water, and therefore in the per- 
formance of an internal work. Whence r=p + Kp u. Neither p, nor Ap u, nor 
the proportion of these two magnitudes is directly given ; in order to determine 
them, we must first seek in some way to eliminate p, as it were, that is to say, 
we must propose some operation with the vapor by which a definite external work 
is performed, while the internal work performed shall, at the end of the operation, 
be nothino-. A process of this sort is denoted by the name of a circle-p)rocess, 
(Kreisprocess.) 

Let us suppose the volume iv of the unit weight of water at t°, to be repre- 
sented by the abscissa O A, (Fig. 11,) the pres- 
sure p>, which is exerted thereon, by the ordinate 
A a. Let heat now be conveyed to the water 
in such wise that the vapor which is formed may 
maintain the constant temperature t. In virtue 
of this the pressure p also remains constant. 
The supply of heat is to be continued until all 
the water is converted into vapor. The volume 
w will now have been changed into B=v, 
and will thus be increased by A B=« ; and 
^ ^ EC since the pressure p) has in the meantime re- 

mained unchanged, the external work thus perfomied and represented by the 
rectangle A a 6 B is equal to jjt(. The quantity of heat supplied during this 
formation of vapor is r. 

To this vapor we now allow, without supplying or withdrawing heat, a 
further small expansion from B to C, till the temperature be sunk 1° 
and the corresponding tension by <p. The work d thereby performed is repre- 
sented by the quadrangle B C c 6 ; and we will denote by q the coiTcsponding 
heat which is disengaged from the vapor. In the fourth column of the table 
here given will be found the amount of diminution of tension <P, when the vapor, 
which is saturated for any one of the temperatures given in the first column of 
that table, is cooled 1°. The numbers of the table ranged under ^ are found 
in the following manner : 

If we subtract anj^ of the values of p contained in the third column from the 
following one, we shall learn how much the tension of the saturated vapor is 
increased by an elevation of temperature of 5°. How much it is diminished by 
a lowering of temperature of 5°, we learn by subtracting from the same value of 
23 the preceding one. If we now take the mean of these two diflFercnces, and of 
this mean the fifth part, we shall learn (without sensible eiTor) how much the 
tension of the vapor of water is changed by an elevation or lowering of temper- 
ature by 1°. Thus, for example, for 150° C. the first difference is 6897.7; the 
second difference, 6195.4; the mean of the two is 65i6.5 ; and the fifth part 
thereof, 1309.3, the number which stands under <l> in the horizontal row of 150° 0. 
Let the vapor, Avhich now has the temperature t—1 and the tension p^=p— ^, 
be compressed by the volume ii, (C D, Fig. 11,) while the heat is continuously 
withdrawn from it in such manner that the temperature shall always remain 
t—1 and the tension^ — ^. 

The quantity of heat r' becoming free during this compression, and withdrawn 
from the vapor, consists of two parts, namely : of the quantity of heat Ap'tt, 
Avhich coiTcsponds to the labor p)'u expended for the compression, and repre- 
sented by the rectangle QJ) do, and the quantity of heat p which becomes free 
by the condensation of a corresponding quantity of vapor. 

Let the compression now be finally continued from O D to A, without the 
addition or abstraction of heat; the temperature will thereby be raised to t°, the 



PEINCIPLES OF THE MECHANICAL THEORY OF HEAT. 2G7 

prcbSure to 2), and tlie vapor will again be fully restored to its original state, 
(water of t°.) In this last part of the operation the work d, represented l)y the 
rectangle Dr/a A, is expended, and thereby the quantity of heat q is again sup- 
plied to the body under experiment, a (piantity which it had lost during the 
expansion from () 13 to O C 

While the water has Iteeu thus fully restored to its original state, the work 
iyu-\-d will, during the operation cited, have been performed thnntgh the expend- 
iture of the quantities of heat r and (Z; ^^^'^ thereupon the quantity of heat r'-\-q 
have been gained by the expenditure of the work Xi' u-\-d. The sum of the work 
gained is thus, 

Xm-\-d—p'u—d= <> t(, 
a work which is represented by the shaded parallelogram abed, (Fig. 11.) 
The heat expended in producing this work is, 

r-\-q—r'—q=:)'—r'. 
But the quantity of heat requisite for the performance of the work >!> u is A<1> u; 
we have then the equation 

A <^ii=r—r'. 
Now, in this equation the values A and r are already known ; only r', there- 
fore, is wanting to enable us to determine that of u. And as the rigorous solu- 
tion of this i)r(jblem is not possible without the aid of the higher analysis, we 
must here content ourselves with an elementary process of approximation. 

The quantities of heat Apu and Ax)'u stand evidently in proportion to the 
tensions p and^'; and to these we may assign as proportional, since the ques- 
tion regards only slight differences of temperature, the density of the vapor of 
water at t° and at (^—1)°. But to these densities are also proportional the (juan- 
tities of Avafer which, at the temperature t°, are evaporated during the expansion 
through the volume u, and at the temperature (^—1)° are condensed during the 
compression through the volume u. Whence, therefore, we have p : [j'=-x^ : p', and 
p-\-Ap) u : fj'-{-Ap'u=p : p^j or r : r'=j> : x^'- 

But since, within such naiTow limits of temperature, the saturated vapor may 
be assumed as following the law of Mariotto Gay-Lussao ; therefore 

p ■.p'=lJ^at: l + a(^-l) 
consequently, also, 

r : r'=l + at: l-fa(^-l) 

1 + at 
, { , l-\-a(t—l) ) 
/ 1+at V 

, ra 
r—r 



l + at 



or, if we divide numerators and denominators by a, and take -=:«, 

if T denote the absolute temperature* which corresponds to t° C. Thus we have 

*Let p be the elastic force of a confineJ mass of air at 0"^; then, according to Mariotte 
Gay-Lussac's law, this elasticity at P C. is equal to ;* (l-f-O.OUtJfJaO ; the clastic force 
of the enclosed mass of air is thus null, if l-f-O.OtKilin^^O; that is to say, if <=— 'i7'.P C. At 
this temperature, which is 27:5'^ below the froeziiif^ point of water, the pases lose their power 
of expansion ; and it is this point which we indicate as the tihsolule zcro-puitit. It is the 
temperature counted from tins point onward, according to the Celsius degrees, T=■27:>-(-^ (if t 
be the temperature counted onward from tlie freezing point of water,) which is denoted as 
absolute temperature. In the second vertical series of our foregoing table are given the 
absolute temperatures which correspond to the temperatures of the lirst column measured by 
the thermometer of Celsius. 



268 PRINCIPLES OF THE MECHANICAL THEORY OF HEAT. 

r 1 



and 



or 



A<pu=.^^ 



AT' 

424 • 



u=- 



T 



(11) 



if for — we place its numerical value 424. From this equation, which is regarded 

as the second gevteral equation of the mechanical tlieorn of heat, the appropriate 
value of w at every given temperature admits of being calculated, as r, T, and 
^ are known magnitudes. Thus, for example, for t^= 120° we have 
^^^ 424 • 522.04 ^Q 3^3 

393 • 645.1 ' 

and for ^=150°, 

424 • 500.8 



=0.3834. 



423 • 1309.3 

Our table contains in the seventh column the value of u for the temperatm'es 
given in the first vertical series. 

To these values of ii we have only to add 0.001, (the volume of one kilogram 
of water expressed in cubic metres,) in order to obtain the volume v, which one 
kilogram of saturated vapor of the corresponding temperatnre occupies. The 
numerical values of v are presented in the eighth column of our table. From 
this wc see, for example, that one kilogram of saturated vapor of 100°, of 130°, 
of 160°, &c., occupies the volume of 1.6459, of 0.6529, of 0.3002, &c., cubic 
metres. 

If the saturated vapors of water followed Mariotte Gay-Lussac's law, then the 

product —^ — must be a constant magnitude. But this product is 

J. "y*^ V 

46376 for ^=100° 

37832 for /=130° 

32374 for ^=160°; 
thus for increasing temperatures it becomes continually smaller. From the appli- 
cation of the mechanical theory of heat to saturated vapors it results, therefore, 
as Clausius first showed, that these do not follow Lussac's law ; that rather the 
elasticity of saturated vapor increases less rapidly with increasing temperature 
than the density thereof. 

Since the quotient — indicates the weight of one cubic metre of saturated 

vapor, — is the weight of one cubic decimetre, consequently, also, the spe- 
cific weight or density of the same. The numerical values of the density of satu- 
rated vapor are given under y in the 9tli column of our table. 

If we multiply the enlargement of volume u, which ensues from the trans- 
formation of one kilogram of water at t° into saturated vapor of ^°, into the 
corresponding pressure p, we obtain the external work performed through this 
operation, while the quantity of heat spent in the performance of this work is 
Apii. The numerical values of Apu, which stand in the 10th column of our 
table, are, however, not calculated in the above-cited manner, but according to 

the empirical equation proposed by Zeuner: Apw=: 30.456 • log • — - , whose 
results so nearly accord with those computed after the above theory that we may 



PRINCIPLES OF THE MECUANICAL THEORY OF HEAT. 269 

well adopt tins equation as tlie true expression of tlie relations between p, ic, 
and t Again, the values of u, as stated in tlie 7tli column, are not those calcu- 
lated in the wa,y above given, but those very nearly the same, which are obtained 
by a division of the values of Ajjm, given in column 10, by the corresponding 
values of Aj). 

Let us now briefly consider the signification of the magnitudes represented in 
the table. 

Q, as already said, is the total quantity of heat which is expended in order 
first to heat one kilogram of water at 0° to t°, and then to convert the water of 
t°, under the con-esponding pressure p, into saturated vapor of t°. 

A part of this quantity Q, namely, Ajm, is spent in external work ; it is, 
therefore, no longer contained in the saturated vapor at t° ; the total quantity of 
heat contained in the vapor (excepting that already in the water at 0°) is 
only J=Q— A j; ii. The values of J are represented in the 11th column of our 
table. 

In order to transform water at t° into saturated vapor at t°, the quantity of 
heat r is necessary, whose values are exhibited in the 6th vertical series of the 
table. It is this magnitude r which is usually designated as Jatoit heat; an 
incorrect expression, however, if we mean thereby to indicate the quantity of heat 
employed in aboUsJiing the cohesion of the particles of water, and hence spent in 
an external work, for a part of the quantity r, namely, Apu, is consumed by 
that external work. Only the remainder, p=^r—A2ni, can be regarded as the 
internal latent heat of vapor, while the magnitude r might, according to Clausius, 
be designated as evaporation-heat. 

It is evident that for a correct calculation of the effects of steam-engines the 
values of v must be taken into account as they are set forth in our table, and not 
hose reckoned after M. Gay-Lussac's law. It is to be observed, however, 
tn a comparison of the values of V and v, given in two preceding pages, that 
in the last the volume of one gram of vapor is expressed in cubic centimetres, 
iwhile in the first it is stated in cubic metres. 

From a consideration of the numbers grouped together in the table it will bo 
seen that of tlie quantity of heat conveyed to the water in the boiler only a very 
small part is expended in mechanical work; for the quantity Apu employed in 
such work is but an inconsiderable fraction even of the evaporation-heat r, about 
J3 for 100°, and -^j for 1G0°. Tlie internal latent va;M)r-heat /> abides with the 
vapor at its exit from the machine, and hence can do no work. This quantity 
of heat fi can only be in part regained. 

This circumstance occasioned the constructing of i)ower machines, in which the 
elasticity of heated air might operate instead of steam. fSuch machines, con- 
structed particularly after Ericsson's designs, and known l)y the name of caloric 
engines, have been repeatedly introduced into practice with high expectations, 
but have been as often abandoned because their performance fell far short of 
that of the steam-engine. 

Till. — ACTIOX OF SATUKATED STEAM DUKING EXPANSION. 

The results thus far obtained enable us to form a correct idea of the action 
of steam in our expansion steam-engines. As we cannot, however, here develop 
the equations necessary for the general solution of this problem, we nnist content 
ourselves with the consideration of special cases. 

If, under the piston of a steam-cylinder, there be just one kilogram of saturated 
steam of IGO^ C, we find for this steam by our talde, 

i = 0.:3002 cubic metre. 
^=03243.4 kilograms. 
J = 610.53 units of heat. 



270 PEINCIPLES OF THE MECHANICAL THEORY OF HEAT. 

Let the steam be now supposed slowly to expand, and the pressure on the piston 
to be, at each moment, equal to the corresponding tension of the steam. During 
this expansion both the temperature and elasticity of the steam is lowered. 

Suppose the steam to expand till its temperature has fallen 5°, and hence in 
the case under consideration from 160° to 155°. "We will inquire now how much 
heat must be supplied to this expanding steam, if, during the expansion in ques- 
tion, no C(jndensation take place and the quantity of steam is to remain unaltered. 
Bj om* table we have for 155°, 

-y/^z 0.3387 cubic metre. 

j>/=5558S.l kilograms. 

J'= 609.35 units of heat. 

The volume of the steam has therefore increased by ^^=^'—^=0. 0385 of a 
cubic metre. The work done during this, expansion we know at least approxi- 
mately, L=V • — — ~ whence, in our special case, we put 

L= 0.0385 • 59415.7 = 2287.5 metre-kilograms; 
the quantity of heat requisite for this work is, 

AL^ =~ 1_ = 5.39 units of heat. 

424 424 

At the beginning of the expansion the total heat contained in the steam, 
J^610.53, at the termination of the expansion, J' = 609.35; thus we see that 
during the expansion, J— J', equal in units of heat to 1.18, has disappeared from 
the steam. But this quantity of heat is not sufficient to execute the work 
amounting to 2287.5 metre-kilograms; so that 5.39 — 1.18 = 4.21 units of heat 
must be added from without, if the steam is to expand in the manner above 
stated, without diminution of the quantity of steam. 

If we repeat the same process for the temperature standing in the beginning 
at 120°, (instead of 160°, as in the preceding case,) we find, 

V=?/'-v = 0.1433. 
^j+p'=18767.2. 
L=2689.3. 

A L= 6.34 units of heat. 
■ J — J^=1.12 units of heat. 

In this last case, therefore, an addition of 6.34 — 1.12=5.22 units of heat is 
needed. Now, if the numerical values just calculated, make no pretension to 
exactness, theystill serve to show that a considerable addition of heat is necessary 
if the steam is to expand in the way specified, ivithout the occurrence of XMrtial 
condensation. 

But since, in our expansion steam-engines, no further addition of heat ensues 
after the shutting off of the supply of steam, it is clear that in consequence of the 
expansion a partial condensation of steam must follow. The last part, therefore, 
of the proposition announced by Pambour, " Steam, while expanding without 
heat being supplied, remains saturated, and no vapor is thereby precipitated," 
is inadmissible ; much rather would it be proper thus to modify the proposition, 
" While steam is expanding without a supply of heat, it remains, indeed, saturated, 
hut thcrchy is a proportional quantity of vapor precipitated." Hence, at the end 
of the expansion the quantity of steam is less than at its commencement. 

It is through the condensation of steam that the heat must be furnished, 
which is in deficiency, for the performance of the work of expansion. 

This important discovery, respecting the action of steam during its expansion, 
was made almost simultaneously by Clausius and Rankine. It is clear that the 
theory of steam-engines must, from this fact, undergo an essential modification. 

That the expansion of steam is attended by partial condensation, admits of 
being likewise experimentally demonstrated. Into a glass balloon, (Fig. 12,) 



PRINCIPLES OF THE JIECIIANICAL THEORY OF HEAT. 271 




•which is wrapped around with wire and provided with a hrass appendage which 

contains a duct, ch>sed at will by a cock, wc introduce a little water, so that 

the glass may be moistened within by a few drops. The balloon is then screwed to 

a compressing pump, and so much air is pumped pig, 12. 

in that the tension in the interior of the balloon 

shall amount to about three atmospheres. 11" the 

cock be now closed, and the balloon be unscrewed 

and laid in some warm place, whether in the 

vicinity of a stove or in the sunshine, the vapors 

in the interior will, after a while, have acquired 

the elasticity corresponding to the temperature, 

and appear perfectly transparent. If the cock bo 

now opened, air and vapor will rapidly escape 

from the balloon, and the latter will l)e tilled with 

a. thick mist. 

In a somewhat altered form, the experiment ad- 
mits of being executed as follows : Let the bell of 

an air-pump be sprinkled on the inside with a 

little water, and after being placed on the plate 

of the pump, be left some time in a rather warm 

chamber. As soon now as we begin to discharge 

the air, a white mist will be formed within the 

bell. 

A corresponding experiment has been instituted 
by Hirn on a large scale. A straight copper cylinder, two metres long and 15 
centimetres in diameter, v/as closed at both ends by flat plates, in the middle 
of w-hich were openings two centimetres wide and closed by plates of glass 
cemented therein. This cylinder was on one side placed in connection with a 
steam-boiler, while on the other it bore a discharge tube which was furnished 
with a wide cock. Into the cylinder was now introduced steam of a higli tension, 
while the escape-cock was only "partially opened, so that all the air might find 
an issue. The highly condensed vapor, (five atmospheres, for example,) which 
in this way fills the cylinder, is now perfectly transparent, so that all objects 
are plainly visible through the glass plates mentioned above. If the influx of 
steam froui the boiler be afterwards wholly shut ofl", and the escape-cock be 
suddenly and fully opened, so that the steam promptly expands to a tension of 
one atmosphere, a mist of such density is formed in the cylinder that its contents 
appear completely opaque. 

IX.^TIIE MELTING OF ICE. 

Aft(,'r having applied the principles of the mechanical theory of heat to the form- 
ation of steam, we will })roceed to consider them in relation to the phenouiena 
of melting, and shall here treat exclusively of the melting of ice. 

Let us suppose one kilogram of ice at 0° C. to be contained in a vessel, under 
the pressure of one atmosphere. If heat be communicated to this ice, ivhUc llic 
ivcsaure remains unaltered, the ice passes gradually into water, but the tenqiera- 
tnre continues at 0° until the liipiefaction is wholly completed. From this 
moment first begins the elevation of temperature, if the supply of heat is main- 
tained. 

The quantity of heat which is necessarv thus, under the pressure of one atmos- 
phere, to convert one kilogram of ice at'o° into water at 0°, taking the mean 
of the best experiments, is, r==79.03r, units of heat. This (piantity is usually 
called, as in the case of steam, the latent heat. 

The i)henoinen()n of melting is wholly analogous to that of evaporation. A 
part of the heat supplied to the ice is expended in overcoming the cohesion, the 
other part in external work, as, during the melting, a change of volume takes 
place. 



272 PRINCIPLES OF THE MECHANICAL THEORY OF HEAT. 

As in tlie formation of steam, if it takes place under the conditions set forth 
in § 7 the temperature at which the transformation into vapor occurs is a function 
of the pressiu-e exerted on the piston, so that we might expect that the tempera- 
ture of the melting ice depends also on the pressure under which it stands ; that 
the temperature of fusion also varies with the pressure. 

From the analogy between vaporization and fusion, we are authorized to apply to 
the phenomenon of melting the equations developed in section vii, and therefore 

the second leading equation of the mechanical theory of heat u = . But 

* ^ ^ A.T.«A 

while, in the formation of steam, the magnitude ^ was given through the experi- 
ment, it is here wholly unknown ; on the other hand, we know the quantities 
r, A, T, and «, and hence have 

(Ill) 



A-T ' u 



As we have above seen, r =79.035. The absolute temperature at which, under 
the pressure of the atmosphere, the melting of ice takes place, is T=273°. "We 

know, moreover, that A=-— — . For the computation of ^ there is wanting, 

therefore, only the value oi u. In the melting of ice, we know a diminution of 
volume takes place. The volume of one kilogram of water at 0° is y^O.OOl 
cubic metre. The volume of one kilogram of ice at 0°, taking the mean of 
different computations, is it'=:0. 00109 j hence 

u=v— IV = — 0.00009, 

and therefore negative. If we place now for r, A, T, and u, in equation, (111,) 
the numerical values cited, the result is 

.__ 79.035 • 424 
~ 273 • 0.00009* 

Should the difference of pressure ^, which corresponds to a lowering of tempera- 
ture of 1°, be expressed, not in kilograms, but in atmospheres, we shall have to 
divide by 10333, and we then obtain 

^=— '- -=132 atmospheres: 

10333 • 0.00009 -273 ^ 

that is to say, an augmentation of pressure from 1 to 132 atmospheres would cor- 
respond to a lowering of the melting point by 1° 0. ; an augmentation of the 
pressure by one atmosphere will therefore be followed by a lowering of the 
melting temperature of ice equal to jig-, or 0.0075° C. 

That the temperature at which ice melts varies with the pressm'e, and that 
thus an elevation of the pressure corresponds to a hivering of the freezing point, 
was first theoreticall}^ demonstrated by James Thomson, (Proceedings of the 
Royal Society of Edinburgh,) and then by Clausius, (Pogg. Aunal., Lxxxi,) and 
was experimentally verified by William Thomson, (Pogg. xVnnal., LXXXi.) The 
latter availed himself, for this experiment, of a thermometer in which ether was 
employed instead of quicksilver as the thermometric fluid. The reser\-oir of 
this thermometer was three and a half inches long and three-eighths inch wide. 
On the tube, six and a half inches long, was a scale of five and a half inches 
length, divided into 220 equal parts. The extent of this scale corresponded to 
a difference of temperature of about 3° F., so that a division represented on an 
average Jj of a degree of P. The thermometer was so regulated that it showed 
the temperature between 31° and 34° F. In order that the reservoir might not 
be compressed when submitted to a strong pressure, it was hermetically inclosed 



PEIXCrPLES OF THE MECHANICAL THEORY OF HEAT. 27o 



in .1 ■\vidcr glass tube ; this outer tube contained enough quicksilver for the 

reservoir of the ether thermometer to be wholly surrounded Ijy it. 

This thermometer was n(»\v plunged, together with a cylindrical tube filled 

with air, into Oersted's compressing apparatus, which was tilled partly with 

water, partly with pieces of pure ice. By means of a ring of lead, care was 

taken to keep the water of the compressing vessel free from ice at that part 

of the thermometer on which the readings were to be made. A pressure of 

8.1, and again of 16.8 atmospheres, produced a sinking of the thermometer by 

7 5 
7^ and 16j of the divisions of the scale, aiid thus by — '- =0.106° F., and 



71 



16.5 



= 0.232° F. ; which very nearly coincides with the theoretically calculated 



Fig. 13. 



F!g. 14. 




Fig. 15. 



71 

depression of 0.109° and 0.227° F. 

From the above developments and observations it might be expected that water 
under very high pressure nuist remain fluid at relatively low temperatures. That 
this, indeed, is the case, is confirmed by the experiments long since conducted by 
Williams ill' Quebec, in order to measure 
the force with which freezing water ex- 
pands. He exposed to intense cold 
thick iron bomb-shells, filled with water 
and closed by means of an iron plug firmly 
driven in. At a very low temperature 
the stopper was either driven out and 
then an icicle was projected from the 
opening, (Fig. 13,) or the bomb was burst, and in that case a sheet of ice pro- 
truded from the fissure, (Fig. 14.) The form of these extruded j)ieces of ice 
indicated conclusively that the water at a veiy low temperature still remained 
iluid, and was first converted into ice at the moment when it gainied additional 
space. 

In fine, Mousson has shown (Pogg. Annal., cv) that at a very low temperature 
ice may be rendered fluid by great pressure. The appa- 
ratus of which he availed himself for this is represented in 
section in Fig. 15, and on a smaller scale in side elevation 
in Fig. 16. Through the axis of a massive prism A of 
the best steel, four-cornered below and furnished above 
with the worm of a screw, a cylindrical cavity, 7.12 milli- 
metres Avide, is drilled, which, in its upper part, widens from 
h to a, in a slightly conical form, so that the month at a 
has a diameter of 8.61 millimetres. From above is driven 
into the cylindrical cavity a {)iece of pure coppery, some- 
wliat conical at first, and fitting into the cavity a b so as 
to form abov'e a perfect closure of the same. To the cop[)('r 
cylinder f/ is ailixed a steel prolongation D, of like diameter 
with the cavity i c, and which, by application of the female 
screw E, can be pressed downwards so as to drive the cop[)('r 
cylinder /7 further into the cavity b c. Underneath the cylin- 
drical cavity 6cis alsoaconical but rapidly widening cavity, 
into which fits the copper cone/, which, by means of the 
steel screw C, can l)e firmly pressed into its cavity. 

In order to perform the experiment, the screw (J and the 
copper cone/ were first removed, the whole apparatus was 
inverted, so that E was below, A above, and the free part 
of the cavity Z^c, above .7, was filled with water that had 
been boiled ; the copper index d was now lowered into this 
water. With the position unchanged, while d thus stood 
upon g, the whole apparatus was exposed to a low tempera- 
18 s 





"274 



PRINCIPLES OF THE MECHANICAL THEORY OF HEAT. 




tare, the water froze, and thereby the copper index was fixed at the place which 
Fig. 16. it occupied. The ni})ple of ice formed by the freezing of the water 
in the conic space at c was removed, the copper cone / introduced, 
and by means of the screw C driven in as strongly as possible. The 
whole apparatus was now again reversed, so that E was above and 
C below. 

After the apparatus, in this last position, was firmly secured in a 
strong cross-piece between two bars, (Fig. 17,) and suiTOunded with 
the freezing mixture, the index d being thus plunged in the ice deep 
under g, the female screw or nut E was, by means of a lever six 
decimetres long, gradually driven around, and thereby g more and 
more pressed downward. If the ice remained firm under the com- 
pression, there must, on the opening of the screw C, situated below, 
appear at the copper cone/ first a cylinder of ice and then the index 
d; but if water has been produced by the pressure, the index d must 
descend to c, at the lower end of the cavity, a^id hence, on the with- 
drawal of/, first th e in- 
'"■ ■ dex and next in order 

S? the massive ice cylin- 

wmiimiimgii¥rai» der respectively make 
their appearance. 

In order to prevent 
the heating of the 
apparatus by me- 
^" / chanical work the 

^__^ • .^ii_^ depression of g was 

'"^^ -•■ ■ ^" ^gj.y sio^YJy conduc- 

ted, the female screw E being turned only every five minutes to the extent of 4/)°, 
and the operation being thus protracted through the space of some four hours. 
"When, after these processes, the lower terminal screw was opened, still under a 
very low temperature, the copjier cone /immediately protruded and ice instantly 
formed on its sides. Directly behind the cone/ followed the index f?, and after 
this a tliick cylinder of ice, which must have been formed at the moment of the 
opening. 

Thus was the proof afforded that, hy a sufficlcnUij strong pressiire, ice is coit- 
verted into water a^J = 18° C. The pressure to which the ice was subjected in this 
experimeut is estimated by Mousson at some 13,000 atmospheres. Tliis lowering 
of the melting point of iee through pressure plays an important part in the expla- 
Dation of glacier-phenomena, and on that account will be again the subject of con- 
Bideration in the section of cosmical physics. 

The value of ^^ (in equation 111) is, for water, a negative one, because ice, in 
melting, contracts. For such substances, however, as are attended in melting 
with an augmentation of volume, is positive, and for tliese therefore the melting 



\ 



> 



PRINCIPLES OF THE MECHANICAL THEORY OF HEAT. 275 



Fig. 18. 



point niiisf, through increased pressure, he heightened. The correct- 
Dt'ss of this consequence lias been cx])eninentally proved by Bniisen, 
(Pog-o-. Aiiiial., Lxxxr, 18'jO,) and by Hopkins, (Dinj^ler's I'olyt. 
join-nal, cxxxiv.) Biinsen conducted the experiment in the I'ol- 
loTVuig- manner : A very thick-walled glass tube about a loot long, 
and having" a bore of tlie size of a straw, was drawn out at one end 
into a fine capillary tube from 15 to 20 inches in length, which was 
made of as accurate calibre as possible. The lower end of this 
glass tube was also drawn out to a somewhat wider tube, one and 
a half inch long and curved, as is shown in I'ig, 18. 

By atmospheric pressure the whole apparatus was now filled with 
quicksilver, and the longer capillary tube was then soldered at a. 
After cooling, a small quantity of quicksilver was driven out at h 
l)y gentle heat, and in place of it, while the cooling was renewed, 
a small quantity of the substance to be tested was imbibed in a state 
of fusion. The apparatus was now soldered also at 6, the longer 
capillary tube was then opened at a, and the whole apparatus heated 
one or two degrees above the melting point of the substance con- 
tained therein, through which i)rocess a part of the quicksilver is 
expelled from the open point at a. Finally, after renewed cooling, 
the range of the quicksilver in the capillary tube at c, together with ||j \\^ 
the range of the thermometer and barometer, was noted; the point \|L^Z 
at a was then once more soldered, and thus a column of air of ascer- 
tained length was included. 

Two such instruments of precisely similar form and contents, one of which was 
soldered at a, Avhile the other remained open, were now, together with a sensi- 
tive thermometer, fastened on a small board in such manner that the two little 
tubes lilled with the substance to be tested might stand close to the bulb of the 
thermometer. If tTiis ai)}iaratus be immersed in water whose tempeiature is a 
few degrees above the melting point of the substance, to such a depth that only 
the tube b shall be submerged, it will be seen that, by gradual cooling of the 
water, molecular rigidity will ensue simultaneously in both tubes. But were the 
api)aratus sunk deeper in the warm water, there would follow, through the ex])an- 
sion of the quicksilver in the closed instrument, a pressure which can bo readily 
measured by the compression of the air in the cajjillary tube cb, and which may 
1)0 augmented or diminished at will by depressing the instrument in the warm 
fluid or partially withdrawing it therefrom. 'J'ho pressure in the open instrii- 
meiit, on the other hand, remains unchanged during the whole experiment. The 
difference of temperatm'e at which the Substance grows rigid in the closed instru- 
ment sooner than in the open one gives the elevation of the melting point for 
the observed pressure. 

An experiment made with spermaceti gave the following result : 

Prt'ssiire. Point of rig:i(Jity. 

1 atmosphere 47.7° C. 

9G atmospheres AO.T 

156 atmospheres 50.9^ 

The same experiuient repeated with paralline gave : 
Pressure. Point of ripjidity. 

1 atmosphere 4()..'i° C 

85 atmospheres 48.9° 

100 atmospheres • 49.9° 



276 PRINCIPLES OF THE MECHANICAL THEORY OF HEAT. 

By another metliocl, Hopkins obtained the following results : 

Melting temperature. 



Pressure. 


Spermaceti. 


Wax. 


Sulphur. 


Stearine. 


1 


510 C. 

Guo 
80.20 


64.-5° C. 

74.5° 
80.2° 


107.0° C. 
1:55 2° 
140.5° 


72.. 5° C. 


519 


73.6° 


792 


79.2° 







X. SPECIFIC HEAT IX THE ACCEPTATION OP THE MECHANICAL THEORY 

OF HEAT. 

By the ppecific heat of a substance is understood, we know, the number which 
specifies how many units of heat (calories) must be added to the unit of Aveight 
of tliat substance in order to produce an elevation of temperature from 0° to 1° C. 

According to a law propounded by Dalong and Petit, the product obtained 
when the specific heat of a solid element is multiplied by its atomic weight should 
be a constant number ; which is, indeed, nearly the case, as the following brief 
table will show : 



Silver... 
Alumina 
Copper. - 

Iron 

Lithium. 
Natrium. 

Lead 

Sulphur. 
Ziuc. 



Atomic weight. 



108.0 
27.4 
G3. 4 
56.0 
7.0 
23.0 

2U7. 
32.0 
Go. 2 



Specific heat. 



0. 0570 
0.2143 
0. 0949 
0.1138 
0. 9408 
0. 2934 
0.0314 
0. 1776 
0. 0956 



6.16 
5.87 
6.02 
6.37 
6.59 
6.75 
6.50 
5.68 
6.23 



The Dulong-Petit law admits of being expressed in this wise : ClicmicaTly 
eqnivaleMt quantities of solid elements require for like elevation of temperature 
quantities of heat of like amount. Still another expression of the same law is the 
following : The atoms of all simple substances have a like capacity for heat; or, in 
fine, the atomic heat of all simple suhstanc'es is equal, if we denote by atomic heat 
the product of the atomic weight into the specific heat. 

In the mean, the atomic heat of solid elements has the product p • s=a, or 
the value 6.4. From this value, however, the atomic heat of carbon deviates 
considerably, since we have for — 



p 


s 


. 


0.241 


12) 


0. 174 


^ 


0. 147 



p • s. 



Charcoal 
Graphite. 
DiamonJ 



2.89 
2. 09 
1.76 



The atomic heat of the difibrent forms of carbon is somewhat more approxi- 
mate to the mean value of the atomic heat of the rest of the elements, if, accord- 
ing to lleguault's proposition, we take the atomic Aveight of carbon not as equal 
to 12, but to 24. 



PEINCIPLES OF THE MECHANICAL THEORY OF HEAT. 277 

If we iiulicate the atomic weight of a compound body hy P, its specific heat by 

S, and by N the number of single atoms which are associated witli one atom of 

P • S 
the compound body, then, according to Garnier, we have very nearly ___=«, 

if a represent the mean atomic heat of the solid eleuients, and, therefore, the 
value G.4. In efi'ect there results, for example, for 



Cinnabar 

Eock salt 

Ked copper 

Water 

Specular iron, {Eisenglanz) 



Chemical 
formula. 



H^S 

N a A 

■e«2 

H,0 

FC.2O3 



232. 

r)8. .5 

142. rt 

]8.0 
IGU.O 



0.0:') 17 
0.219 
0. 1 1 1 

].0() 
0. 154 



PS 

N 



(i.O 
6.4 
5.3 
6.0 
5.0 



Now the temperature of a boily depends, according to the mechanical theory 
of beat, entirely on the living force with which the atoms composing it move. 
Two bodies have a like temperature when the living force with which each atom 
in the one vibrates is equal to the living force of an atom in the other. For the 
temperature of two bodies to be raised in an equal degree it is necessary that the 
oscillatory work of the atoms in both should undergo an ecpial augmentation. 

From this it might well be expected tliat like quantities of heat will be needed 

to produce a like elevation of temperature in two masses of diflerent substance 

of whicli one contains just as many atoms as the other; or, in other words, it 

would be ex])ected that the magnitude, which we have above indicated as atomic 

heat, sh(nild for all elements lie alike; that, hence, the Dulong-Petit law should 

not only be ajijjrosimatch', but rigorously, correct, that for chemicaHy com- 

}»ounded substances the quotient which we obtain when we divide the atomic 

heat of the combination by the number of single atoms which are associated with 

P S 
one atom of the composition, being the value -^jrr-, must under all circumstances 

be perfectly equal to the atomic heat of the simj)le substance. This, however, 

esperinaent does not verify. The numbers of the last cohunu of the above table, 

P S 
in part, desnate considerably from 6.4, and thus the quotient -Trf— is not equal for 

all combinations, as we have also seen above. 

The contradiction in which experiment and the mechanical theory of heat 
seem here involved entirely vanishes, however, when it is considered that the 
quantity of heat which must be sup})lied to a body in order to raise its tenqiera- 
ture is by no means wholly cnqdoyed in exalting the living force of its molecular 
vibrations, but that a considerable i)art of the heat, which we designate as specific 
beat, is consumed in the performance of internal and external work. 

Let us indicate the specific heat of a simple substance by s; then is, 

s^Jc + i + e .... (1), 

if by Jc we denote the augmentation of the vibratory work wliich the unit weight 
{Getvichtseinhcil) of the substance in question undergoes from an elevation of 
tenqjerature (jf 1°, while i and e denote the heat c<piivalent of the internal 
and external work sinuiltaneously executed. If we designate tlie atomic weight 
of the substance by j;, then, according to the ])rineiph'S dl' the mechanical theory, 
the product Icp naist, of course, be the same for all sinq)le suhslances; but it by 
no nu'ans follows that S}) also is a constant magnitude, since c and i are qiumli- 
ties which vary, not only fn^m one substance to another, but for the same sub- 
stance with the conditions of aggregation. 



We can realize the absolute validity 



278 PRINCIPLES OF THE MECHANICAL THEORY OF HEAT. 

of tlie law of Dnlonor and Petit only when both quantities i and e are completely 
null. Only in special cases can the qnantities e and i be small enough to admit 
of their being neglected. This circumstance, however, makes it possible to 
ascertain the value of the quantity Jc. 

For solid and fluid bodies the expansion which corresponds to an elevation of 
temperature by 1° is so slight that we may overlook, without sensible error, the 
external tvork thereby executed ; for this case, therefore, we have 

s=:k + i .... (2). 

On the other hand, it may be assumed that, at least with the ponnanent gases, 
.the infernal loork is null ; whence, for these we have 

s=lc-\-e .... (3), 

if by s the specific heat ©f these gases under constant pressure be indicated. For 
the case in which the gas is so eoniined as not to be capable of expanding fi'om 
subsequent heating, e is also null ; and we then have 

s'=lc .... (4), 

if by s' lie indicated the specific heat f)f gases under constant volume. 

According to the experiments of Regnault, the specific heat is, with constant 
volume, for oxygen gas, 0.1551 j for hydrogen gas, 2.4153 ; for nitrogen gas, 
0.1712; whence the atomic heat is for oxygen gas, 0.1551 • 16 = 2.4816; for 
hydrogen gas, 2.4153-1 = 2.4153; for nitrogen gas, 0.1712-14 = 2.3968. 
We will take, then, 2.4 for the approximate value of the atomic heat under con- 
stant volume, for the gases named. 

This value, 2.4, we will now designate as absolute atomic heat. It would l)e 
the atomic heat for all elements, whether in a fluid, solid, or gaseous state, if all 
the heat supplied to them inured exclusively to the auguientation of the vibra- 
tory work, and none of it were employed for internal and external work. 

The knowledge of the absolute atomic heat 2.4 enables us to ascertain what 
part of the specific heat S of a bod}'^ inures to the elevation of temperature, and 
what part thereof becomes latent through the performance of internal or external 
labor. For solid elements the atomic heat is, according to equation (2), 

S2)= {lc-\-i)p. 

For the absolute atomic heat Icp of all elements we have found the value 2.4; 
whence, 

(s— i)»=2.4, and s—i — "" . 
P 

2 4. 

The quotient -^, which we will call the absolute specific Jieat, or the absolute 

heat-capacity, is the same quantity which we designated above by /.: ; we find it 

for cacli element if we employ its atonric weighty? as a divisor for 2.4. 

2 4 
Thus, for exanqde, wo obtain for copper ]c^^-^[^- =0.0378. Of the quan- 

63.4 

tity of heat 0.0949, which must b(! supplied to one gram of copper in order to 

raise its temperature 1°, only 0.0378 units of heat are expended for the elevation 

of temperatm-e, (increase of vibratory work;) the rest, 0.0949 — 0.0378 = 0.0571 

units of heat, are consumed hn- internal work, and hence are latent. In the same 

vvH.y we obtain for certain solid elements, which are exhibited together in the fol- 



PRIXCIPLES OF THE MECHANICAL THEORY OF HEAT. 271) 



lowinc" table, the values of the specific heat s, of the ahsolnte specific heat 7i", 
and of the heat expended for internal work i. 



Silver... 
Alimiiua 
Copper.. 

Iron 

Lithium. 
Katiium. 

Lead 

Sulpliur . 
Ziuc 



0. 0570 
0.214:i 
0. 0949 

0. n;58 

0. 9408 
0. 29:34 

0. o:{J4 

0. 1776 
0. 0956 



0. 0222 
0. 0875 
0. 0378 

fi. 04:?o 
0. :U2H 

0.104:! 
0.0i2G 
0. 0756 
0. 0372 



0. 0348 
0. 1263 
0.0571 
0. 0708 
0. 5940 
0. 1891 
0.0183 
0. 1020 
0. 0583 



If we seek to ascertain in this way the value of k for carbon, we obtain, by 
takini^ the atoniic weight 12 as a basis, 7t;=0.2, a value which is greater than 
the value of s heretofore found for graphite and diamond. This circumstance 
speaks decisively to the effect that, agreeably to llegnault's profiosition, we 
sliould double the atomic weight of carbon and assume it to be equal to 24 ; we 
then have, for the different forms of aggregation of carbon, the values of s, JCj 
and i, exhibited in the following brief table : 



Charcoal. 
Graphite. 
Diamond 



0. 241 
0. 174 
0. 147 



-0.1- 



0. 142 

0. 074 
0,047 



The inequality of the specific heat of different forms of aggregation of carbon 
thus becomes intelligible, from the consideration that at a like elevation of tem- 
perature the internal work performed is different, according as we are dealing 
with diamond, graphite, or charcoal. 

In strictness, therefore, the law of Dulong and Petit Ls, in general, only valid 
for the absolute specific heat /.', which, nndtiplied by the atomic weiglit of the 
element, gives the constant product hp=^2A. The variations which the specific 
heat of solid elements undergoes, when the temperature is raised, are likewise' to 
be ascribed to a dillerence in the amount of internal work. 

In reference to chemically compounded substances, we have, for ascertaining 
their absolute capacitij of heat K, the e(piation 



PK 

N 



=2.4 



(5), 



P-S 



•which is found from equation-—-- —a if we putK in the place of the experimen- 
tally determined specific heat S, and the absolute specific heat of the element 2.4 in 
the place of a. From equation (.'3) results K = 2.4 — . For water, for instance, 

we have N = 3, P = 16 + 2 = 1S: hence K = 2.4 ''^ =0.4; thus tlH> a))soluto 

specific heat of water in a solid, liquid, and gaseous form, is equal to 0.4. From 
these ])remises we obtain, for the quantity of heat /, which, by an elevation of 
temperature of 1°C., is expended in internal work, 



for ice . . . 
for liquid water 



:0./5 — 0.4 = 0.1 
1.0 — 0.4 = 0.0. 



280 PRINCIPLES OF THE MECHANICAL THEORY OF HEAT. 



THE THERMIC MOLECULAR MOTION. 

From the equivalency of heat and labor it undoubtedly results that every 
development of lM?at by mechanical means must be regarded as the trans- 
formation of a hodily tuotion into a molecular tnofion; and, conversely, that 
every performance of work must be considered a transformation of the molecular 
motion into a hodily motion. This view constitutes the starting point of. the 
mechanical theory of heat, of which the most essential principles, together with 
some of the most important consequences springing from them, have been dis- 
cussed in the preceding paragraphs, without reference, however, to the concep- 
tion which we must form of this molecular movement, whose results are the 
different phenomena of heat. 

For the completion of the mechanical theory there is certainl}' needed an 
hypothesis respecting the nature of this molecular action, although many import- 
ant questions may be and have been solved without one. In the mean time the 
construction of such an hypothesis' has exercised the ingenuity of different physi- 
cists, especially of Clausius, Kronig, and lledtenbacher. 

Kronig and Clausius (Fogg. Annal., xcix and c) suppose that the minute 
molecules of gases and vapors, mere points in proportion to tlie intervals which 
separate them, move on with a constant velocity, in right lines, until they 
impinge against another molecule of the same nature, or against some object to 
them impenetrable. The pressure of gases against a solid surface is supposed 
to result from the fact that the molecules in great number continually impinge 
against the resisting surface and reboimd from it. By an increase of tempera- 
ture the velocity with which the molecules move is augmented ; and, in line, 
the temperature is assumed to be proportional to the square of that velocity. 

In the case of solid bodies, the molecules oscillate about a permanent point of 
equilibrium ; while iu the case of fluids this point of equilibrium does not exist ; 
but the molecules, notwithstanding their constant and manifold movements, are 
restrained to determined distances, and cannot, like the gases, move freely apart 
from one another. 

While the savants just named seek the causes of the phenomena of heat in a 
movement of the atoms themselves of bodies, lledtenbacher considers the oscilla- 
tions of the atoms of the ether enveloping the atoms of a body to be the source 
of those phenomena, as he has explained in his "Dynamiden system," (Maii- 
heim, 1857.) 

A circumstance which speaks with luuch force in favor of the views of Kronig 
aild Clausius is that through these views the difference between radiant and 
sensible heat admits of easy explanation. The former would thus appear to be 
propagated in a precisely identical manner with the rays of light, by a undulatory 
movement of the ether, while a vibratory movement of the ponderable atoms of 
the body would be the source of sensible heat. 

The development of the mechanical theory of heat has, within a fejv 3'^ears, 
made such progress that it must soon'stand iu the same grade with the undulatory 
theory of light. In proportion, at the same time, as the mathematical theory is 
advanced towards completion, will it become more and more practicable to reduce 
the explanation of the particular phenomena of heat, in a generally intelligible 
form, to the principles of the mechanical theory. 



CONTLMJOUS YIERATORY MOVEMENT OF ALL MATTER, PONDERiVBLE 
MD BIPONDEKABLE. 



By L. Maguini. of the Museum of Florence. 



Translated for the Smithsonian Institution.* 

It would bo at onco carious and histructivo, could we uuitc? in one point of view 
tLe different rellecticnis of mankind on the i)henomena of nature. What variety 
in ideas ! what ditlerences auioni^ men ! what contrasts between nationalities ! If 
the ])aths which the human mind pursues could be clearly traced, and it were 
possible to examine them, we should perhaps discover the reasons which cause 
men at one time to affirm, as if with intuitive certainty, a principle pregnant with 
consequences, destined to be confirmed by facts, while at other times they hesitate, 
go astray, and lose the truth even when earnestly seeking it. 

Our senses, even with the help of the most perfect instriunents, reveal to us but 
very little al)out nature ; but the sensations derived from the impressiiuis made 
on our organs by exterior objects are transmitted to the understanding, which 
co-ordinates them and draws from them the most rational and rigorous deduc- 
tions ; the small number of facts which our senses thus teach us, afford us the 
best means of extending our knowledge regarding the external work!. We might 
repine, witli some justice, at the imperfection of our senses: oar ears might be 
more impressible, our sense of smell more susceptible; our sight might be even 
more piercing than it actually is with the aid of optical instruments. Yet it is 
not difficult to convince ourselves that it is not the senses which deceive us, and 
that the error proceeds from the deductions formed by the understanding. 

An oar, ])iercing oljliquely a horizontal surface of water, appears to us to be 
broken at the point where it issues from the water. The ej'e really receives the 
impres.sions of the light as if the oar were broken. But if our mind were to 
conclude from this optical phenomenon that we beheld a broken oar, it would 
not be the eye which was in fault, but the understanding, which deceives itself 
by a conclusion without verifying the other characters of a broken oar. Tho 
philosophers who im])ute error to the eye ought, on the contrary, to regard 
this indication as a signal service ; since, without touching on other properties — 
the knowledge of which does not pertain to its province — the eye does in fact 
faithfully r('[)resent to us the real course of the luminous rays which pass from 
the water into the air. ' 

This example, and a multitude of others of the same kind which might be 
cited, reach us that it is very dillicult for us to pronounce a correct judgnu-nt in 
taking our lirst sensations as a basis. It is necessary to wait till new facts add 
themselves to the old, and disclose the relations which lead to the connnon prin- 
ciple of all the phenomena of the same order. ^Mathematical truths are niiro 
conceptions which obey the necessary laws of reasoning; it is not the same case 
with the physical sciences, the study of which rests not on axioms furnished liy 
reason, nor on principles which can bo dirccllij drawn from the understanding. 
Nature ])resent3 us complex j)henonu'na which we must examine minutely, in 
order to analyze them and discover their cause ; if we would not deviate from 
reality and truth, we must acce])t the descriptive language of the sensations. 
The sensations furnish us the data, and the tendency wliicli we have to attributo 
Ihem to external causes, conducts us from analogy to principles. In reality, iho 

* From Revue des Cours Scicntifi<iues : Purls, No. 41), Nov. 2. 1807. 



282 CONTINUOUS VIBRATORY MOVEMENT OF 

world is composed of objects which we know only by the impressions they pi-o- 
duce on our senses. Matter is the unknown principle of which they are formed, 
the cause of the properties which they manifest, and of the sensations wliich 
reveal them to us. But when we wish to study an "object, it is proper to com- 
mence by defmina^ it; we should therefore ask ourselves, first of all, what is the 
true constitution of matter? 

In considering the scale of magnitudes and the extreme divisibility of bodies, 
Ave find that we can form two hypotheses on the constitution of matter. We may 
admit that it is divisible to infinity, and consequently conceive of a body as a 
continuous mass, as a veritable geometric solid ; or again, we may suppose that 
by continuing to divide more and more the fragments of a body, we shall arrive 
at an ultimate particle — an atom. On this last hypothesis, matter would be but 
an assemblage of atoms, grouped in distinct elementary molecules, placed one 
beside another without touching, and endowed with the faculty of approaching 
to or withdrawing from one another. 

If we inteiTogate chemistry before making a choice between these two 
hypotheses, it will reply that if matter is continuous, that is to say, not capable 
of beinti- resolved into indivisible elements, the idea of chemical combinations 
becomes essentially obscure. On the contrary, all the known laws of combina- 
tion become evident conserpiences, logical corollaries of the hypothesis which 
considers matter as formed by the union of a great number of small indivisible 
masses; it is easy, in etlect, "to comprehend that the atoms of two simple bodies 
may, in uniting, form mixed molecules and give rise to new bodies. 

Tlie propagation of heat and of light in the Torricellian vacuum and in the 
planetary spaces, compels us to admit the existence of another highly subtle 
species of matter, infinitely more diffused and universal than ponderable matter, 
and which we are led to consider as the })rincipal agent of physical nature. 

We shall endeavor to prove, on this fjccasion, that movement is a fundamental 
property of matter in whatsoever state it exists, ponderable or imponderable ; 
and if movement exists to-day in all the particles of matter, it has, of necessity, 
always existed. Without movem(;nt it is impossible for our mind to conceive 
any modification whatever in the state of things. No action of bodies can be 
manifested without our being able to afiirm that this action consists in a particular 
mode of movement. We shall proceed, as those who transport themselves to 
some elevation in order to embrace the view of a vast region, to cast a compre- 
hensive glance on the phenomena offering more particularly the proof of the 
interior movement which constantly animates the molecules. Let us remark at 
once, that this movement is for us an ultimate fact, of which as yet we know not 
the reason. 

Celestial mechanics has explained all the perturbations of the movement of 
the planets, by admitting the necessary presence of unknown orbs at the limits 
of the solar system; observation has verified the existence of those bodies. 
Thanks to numerous and complete verifications of this kind, mechanics has suc- 
ceeded in rendering extremely probable, not to say absolutely certain, the prin- 
ciple of gravitation, and in establishing in a definitive manner the law of New- 
ton. The law of continuity in nature forces us to admit that the same principle 
extends to all. that exists ; it governs the constitution and movements of celestial 
bodies; it binds the satellites to their planets and the planets to the sun; it con- 
trols all the bodies which revolve one around another within a determinate radius ; 
it also acts on each molecule, on each atom, at minute distances which escape our 
gross senses and all our means of direct observation. 

[The name gravitation has been given to that force or tendency of masses to 
approach each other with an intensity which varies inversely as the square of the 
distance and directly as the quantity of matter. The force which acts between 
the particles, though perhaps of the same character, is governed by a different 
lav,', and hence has received a different name, that of cohesion. — J. H.J 



ALL MATTER, TOXDERARLE AND IMPONDERABLE. 283 

But if the dimensions of molecules are extremely smtill, the distances which 
separate them are relatively very great, insomuch that, accordiug to the sugges- 
tive idea of Laplace, a molecule may he compared to a star, and moleculur gravi- 
tation to universal gravitati<m. It results from this that the movements of mole- 
cules may be compared to the movements of the stars, and it is thus that mod- 
ern physics has raised itself to the height of mechanics. It is interesting to see 
a Solid body suddenly obey the laws of attraction at the moment when it enters 
within the sphere of influence of a liquid ; the etfect is still produced when the 
liquid does not moisten the solid. 

Cohesion, which may be considered a modification of gravitation, acts with 
difierent degrees of intensity on diderent bodies. All the degrees of intensity 
which separate the least dense fluid from the most condensed solid, form only 
some of the intermediate terms of an indefinite series, of which the ultimate parts, 
eminently solid, the ponderable atoms represent one of the extremities ; at the 
other are found the matter of the nebulae and th(? molecules of the ether itself. 
It is these ponderable atoms, subject as they all are to the attraction of the 
neighboring atoms and to that of the ether which surrounds them witli a species 
of atmosphere, that produce thermal, electrical, and optical phenomena. 

Under the relatively variable influence of these phenomena, l)odies must con- 
tinually undergo modiiications in their internal structure. In effect, what varie- 
ties of forms invest quartz and feldspar in their slow and gradual i)assago from 
a vitreous to a tophaceous state ! And not only stones, originally resistant, which 
become friable, but ilexible substances which be(M)me more and more rigid ; cal- 
careous concretions which from afibrous texture acipiire a lamellar texture ; siliceous 
incrustations, primitivel}' friable, which are transformed into afi!)rous tissue, &c. ; 
are there not here positive proofs that, even in the most compact bodies, the mole- 
cular grouping undergoes incessant transformations"? In these continual trans- 
formations, we cannot neglect the action of gravitation. Pictct has evinced it 
by showing the shortening which a metallic rod undergoes by resting vertically 
on its lower extremity. It is known, also, that the sheets of lead with which 
the roofs of certain buildings are covered grow thiinicr with time in their upper 
part, and become denser in their lower part. Ileucc it results that the particles of a 
metal tend, like those of a liquid, to place themselves on a level, by yielding 
slowly, but in a continuous manner, to the force; of terrestrial gravitation. 

Oil placed in a mixture of water and alcohol, having the same density with 
itself, is subject only to the molecular attraction of its own matter, and of the 
medium in which it displaces its bulk without mingling therewith. It maintains 
itself in equilibrium and keeps tla; position in which it is placed ; being thus 
withdrawn from the terrestrial gravitation, it takes tin; spherical form which sat- 
isfies all the conditions of a force acting (■(pially in all directions. 

Among the expedients which enabled M. Plateau to obtain a certain nmnbet 
of geometrical iigures under the influence of the molecular attraction, I will cite 
one which led to effects truly curious. If, through one of the small spheres of 
oil i)laced in a mixture of water and alcohol, we pass a small metallic rod, 
to which we communicate a rotary movement, this movement is suddenly trans- 
mitted to the whole mass of oil. The little sjdiere, by virtue of the. centrifugal 
force, becomes flattened in i)ro[)ortion as it revolves more rapidly. Such is also 
the cause to which we usually attribute the flattening of the terrestrial sphere. 
When we continue to increase the velocity of rotation, the flattening is cidianced 
to such a degree that the s[)liere grows hollow, and of a siulden separates into 
two parts: the interior part, which is a si)here, remains at the centn? of the sec- 
ond i)art, which has the form of a ring. It is impossibh; to witness th(^ forma- 
tion of this ring without recalling that of Saturn, which doubtless nnist hiivo 
formed itself after the same- manner. Thus the same cause which gives rise to 
the limpid drops of dew which sparkle on the leaves of plants, and which com- 



284 CONTINUOUS VIBRATORY MOVEMENT OF 

bines into small sjiheres the particles of water, has given to all the great celes- 
tial bodies their spherical form. 

[This statement is scarcely correct in a critical consideration of the phenomena; 
the spherical form of the planets is due to the attraction of every particle of the 
whole body on every other, while the spherical form of the globule of oil is the 
result of the interaction or cohesion of the particles at the surface. — J. H.] 

But, besides imiversal attraction, matter in masses has received, at its origin, 
movements of translation, and by analogy the molecules of a drop of water or of a 
globtile of platina — which are as thinly scattered and as rai'C in the little space 
thej' occupy as the stars of our solar system — may be supposed to be in per- 
petual oscillatory revolutions, without losing anything of their stability, thanks 
to the nature of these movemer.ts, and to the influence of the neighboring bodies. 

The astonishing phenomena of acoustics completely forestall the species of 
repugnance we experience in admitting that the molecules of solids can execute 
very rapid movements without becoming disaggregated. On seeing the violent 
movements which pulverulent bodies undergo, and the regular figures they de- 
scribe when cast on plates of glass, metal, or wood, which are made to render a 
sound by scraping them with a bow ; on hearing sound propagated through solid 
bodies more quickly than through the air, and recognizing that it suffices to 
impress a vibratory movement on a small portion of a rigid body in order to com- 
municate to a considerable mass a lively agitation ; on verifying that a metallic 
rod which is made to vibrate longitudinally undergoes contractions and elonga- 
tions, condensations and dilatations, just as does a column of air which resounds 
in a tube ; at seeing a thick beam in contact with a vibrating body of small 
dimensions undergo elongations which may amount to the tenth of a millimetre 
for a metre of length : in presence of this species of mechanical paradox, accord- 
ing to which simple external vibrations of so feeble a nature produce such con- 
siderable effects, we can no longer refuse to admit that the immobility in wdiich 
we see the molecules of solid bodies is only apparent. 

The recent experiments of Professor Graham, on the diffusion of gases 
through graphite, confirm the hypothesis which considers gases as masses com- 
posed of innumerable particles, of atoms spherical, solid, endowed with a perfect 
elasticity, and moving in all directions, but with variable velocities according 
to the s})ecial nature of each gas. If the substance of the vessel be porous like 
that of the diffitsioiiicter, the atoms of the gas, under the influence of the active 
force which animates them, are j)rojected through the pores of the graphite, real 
tunnels, as the}^ are in comparison with the minute dimensions of the elementary 
atoms of the gaseous body, which thus, in the end, escapes and disperses itself 
in the exterior atmosphere. But, at the same time, the air or some exterior gas 
enters in like manner into the interior and replaces the gas which issued from it. 
We may well conceive that this same atomic movement, accelerated by heat and 
retarded by cold, may be the cause of the elastic force of all gaseous substances 
and of their reaction against all comjn-essing actions. It is known that no alter- 
ation in these movements is manifested when the same gas exists at the interior 
and at the exterior of the vessel, and consequently in contact with both faces of 
the porous wall. It may be assumed in this case that the gaseous molecules enter 
and issue exactly in the same proportions, and thus undergo changes of place 
which we can neither perceive by variations in volume nor by any other phe- 
nomenon. 

If the gases which are in communication are of different natures, but possess 
nearly the same density, and are animated by molecular movements of the same 
velocity, there is again a simple displacement of molecules without auguientation 
of volume, as experiment has shown in the case of nitrogen and the oxide of 
carbon, If, on the contrary, the gases separated by the porous wall are of different 
densitv and molecular velocity, the reciprocal penetration ceases to be equal in 



ALL MATTER, TONDERABLE AND IMPONDERABLE. 285 

tlie two directions. The time wliicli eqnal volumes of different ceases occn])v in 
passiiifi^ throuc'li the g-raphite are ajiproximately proportional to the square roots 
of their respective densities. Moreover, as tlie (thserved i)henomena prove that 
the duration of the passage of the gases tlirough tlie lamina of graj)hite bears no 
relation to the time necessary for capillary transpiration, it must he concluded 
that the penetration of the gases through the pores of tlu^ graphite is owing to 
their j)roper molecular movements. The diffusion of which we speak alfords U3 
the most simple example of molecular movements, and renders them, so to speak, 
visilde by the variiiiions of volume. 

From the foregoing it would appear that the pores of graphite are of so great 
tenuity tliat there can be neither transpiration nor passage in mass of elastic thuds, 
and the graphite may thus be considered a sort of sieve Avhich allows only the 
individual molecules to pass. 

The most ordinary observation constantly teaches lis that animal and vegetable 
matter, exposed after death to the contact of the air or buried in the eai'th, under- 
goes numerous transformations. Fermentation, putrefaction, and slow combus- 
tion are the three natural phenomena which co-operate for the accomplishment 
of the disaggregation of organized matter, a disaggregation necessary for the 
per|)etuation of life on the surface of the globe. 

The most recent experiments of M. Pasteur lead us to recognize that the life 
which is manifested in the very lowest organized productions, is indispensable to 
the accomplishment of the three ]^heuomena which complete the nietamorplioses 
of organized matter. The life of those inferior organisms presents this i)eculiar 
character, that it has no need of air or of free oxygen ; a peculiarity which was 
unknown before the investigations of M. Pasteur. It has not been long since 
this eminent French chemist established experimentally that the slow combustion 
of which dead organic substances become the seat, when exposed to the coutact 
of the air, stand, in the greatest number of cases, in close connection with the 
presence of living beings pertaining to the inferior classes of the organic kingdom. 
From this fact it flows, as a general consequence, that life presides at the wrjrk 
of death in all its phases, and that the three terms of this perpetual restoration 
to the atmospheric air and to the mineral kingdom of the principles which vege- 
tables and animals have extracted from them are correlatives of the develop- 
ment and multipli(uition of organized beings. 

How is it possible, after this, to refuse to admit that all nitrogenated ])lastic 
substances may acquire, under the influence of a direct oxydatiou, a fon^e ciiarac- 
terized by an internal movement, suited for being connnunicated to organic sub- 
stances ? The solid crust of our globe, the waters which cover it and the atmos- 
phere which surrounds it, were they deprived of all proper moh^cular mov(!ment, 
would still be agitated constantly and in all their parts, under the sole influence, 
continually variable as it is, of the solar rays which produce light, heal, and 
chemical action. We are thus led to consider the activities of subtile matter and 
the admiral)le phenomena of which it is the seat. How manifold and energetic 
are the modifications produced by this subtle matter, in the state of light, on all 
the bodies of nature. 

Every one know's that phosphorus becomes red in nitrogen, in hydrog(ni and 
in tlu; barometric vacuum, under the sole influence of light ; that, under this same 
influence, the sulphate of n)ercury contained in a close vessel beconjes black, 
sealing wax grows white, bismuth acquires a violet tint, certain wliite crystals 
becoujc gradually purple; that the iodides, the bromides, the chlorides, undergo 
rapiil alreration, &c It is to this prooerty possessed l)y light of determiniug, in 
both solids and liquids, different molecular groupings, that we owe the wonderful 
art of n-jiroducing and lixing the image of i)ersons au<l olijects that are dear to 
us, with all the rigur of truth, and, so to speak, with the rapidity of thouiiht. 

These i)henomena, and a great number of others w^hich light produces on 
inorganic bodies, as well as on animals and vegetables, are due to vibratory 



286 CONTINUOUS VIBEATORY MOVEMENT OF 

movements of the .itoms of luminous bodies and tlie undulations of the ether 
which are the consequence thereof. The hypothesis of undulations has received, 
in recent times, tlie support of facts and of analysis to such an extent that it may 
be re.^-arded as the true expression of a physical law, and be recognized in science 
with the same certainty a« the theory of gravitation. How curious an object of 
meditation is light considered as an agent producing continual modifications on 
the earth and in the air, in organic tissues and in minerals ! In this point of 
view, liglit appears as the effect of an initial force, capable of producing, in a 
mediate or immediate manner, other modes of action, such as chemical and caloriiic 
effects. 

It is generally considered that an incandescent combustible body is an assem- 
blage of molecules undergoing separation of their constituent elements in order to 
reunite with other molecules Vvhich they encounter in the air; that all the parts 
of an ignited body are subjected to violent movements, and that the atoms of 
every luminous body are in an analogous state of agitation. Atoms have the 
facultv of transmitting their movements to the neighboring particles of the ether, 
wdnch, in turn, communicate them to the surrounding particles, and thus these 
movements are propagated to the greatest distances with the rapidity of lightning. 
Thus the ether only becomes luminous because the incandescent bodies and stars 
have arrived above the horizon and impress undulatory movements on its parti- 
cles. It is for a like reason that at night our apartments and halls become as 
well illuminated as by day ; when left in darkness it is only from the absence 
of a body capable of impressing on the ether contained in the hall a movement 
sufficiently intense to excite our visual organ. 

It is proper to reinarlc that the movement of the either impinging upon bodies 
is calculated to impress on their ponderable atoms regular vibrations, but vibra- 
tions more and more feeble as the distance traversed by the undulation is greater 
and the diffusion it has undergone more considerable. Vibrations of the second 
order by which ponderable bodies are thus animated may, in their turn, impress 
on the surrounding ether undulations less and less intense ; by the same 
mechanism vibrations of the third and fourth order may render objects which are 
opaque for us visible to other more impressible beings, and, indeed, exert influ- 
ences capable of modifying the molecular structure of solid bodies. 

If hesitation be felt in admitting these principles, let it be remarked only that 
tfhe vibrations of a tuning-fork continue to be perceptible long after the concus- 
sions of the bow or stick have ceased to be directly communicated; let it be con- 
sidered, also, that when the instrument has lost the property of directly mani- 
festing its vibrations to the ear, they do not. the less exist, and may be rendered 
perceptible by placing it on a suitable sounding-board. It cannot then be unrea- 
sonable to admit that bodies struck by light during tlie day should receive in 
their atoms a corresponding vibratory movement, a mo^■ement which persists in 
darkness and is communicated to the surrounding ether. If gypsum, the diamond, 
and otlier bodies exposed to the solar rays acquire the property of becoming 
visible lV)r some time in the dark, where is the explanation of this phenomenon to 
be sought if not in the persistence of the atomic vibrations after the exciting 
force has ceased to act"? Can any other cause be attributed to the mysterious 
images of Moser ? Is it not probable, from these considerations, that vibrations 
insensible to the retina of the human eye may produce an energetic action on the 
visual organ of certain animals? It is highly probable that the antenna3 of some 
insects receive impressions of which we have no precise idea, while these creatures 
are insensible to the impressions which affect our organs ; their sensations, per- 
haps, commencing at the point where ours cease. 

It is impossible to conceive at any point of our globe, which changes its posi- 
tion at every instant in relation to the sun, the same temperature during two con- 
secutive moments ; hence there results a continual change in the molecules 
of all bodies. The astronomer Cesaris, by observing at several intervals the 



ALL MATTER, PONDERABLE AND lilPONDERAELE. 287 

walls of tlie observatory of Milan with very tlelicate instruinents, found thorn to 
be subject to certain periodical and variable oscillations due to the action of the 
sun. 'i\ibl)roni made the observation on a church of Paris, and to the same 
cause is attributed the periodical uiovenient which Vicat observed in the arches 
of the bridge of Souillae. 

[Professor Ilorsford has found that the top of the high tower which constitutes 
the Bunker Hill monument, near Boston, inclines towards the west in the morning, 
towards the north at midday, and towards the cast in the afternoon. These 
movements are evidently due to the esjianding influence of the sun as it waiins 
in succession the different sides of the structure. A similar but more marked 
eflfect is produced on the dome of the Capitol at Washington, as indicated l)y the 
apparent motion of the bob of a long plumT)-line fastened to the under side of 
the roof of the rotunda and extending to the pavement beneath. This bob de- 
scribes daily an elipsoidal curve, of Avhich the longer diameter is four or five 
inches in length. 13y molecular actions of this kind, perpetually continued, time, 
" the slow but sure destroyer," levels with the ground the loftiest monuments of 
human pride. — J. 11.] 

But in what consists the mode of action of heat? In order to advance one 
step in the solution of the question, it is necessary to recall the fact that in every 
instance where there is a consiunption of mechanical labor there is a production 
of heat. Attrition, compression, torsion, are each an expenditure of labor, and 
give rise to heat. A band of caoutchouc suddenly stretched grows wami ; a 
. strip fixed in a vice by one of its extremities, while the free extremity is made to 
oscillate, becomes hot at the i)oint where it is fixed, that is to say, at the very 
point at which the brisk force is annihilated. And, vice versa, when heat is 
consumed labor is created ; a gas, in dilating, presses a piston and becomes colder ; 
tlie same effect ensues when vapor expands. The band of caoutchouc, which 
developed heat when suddenly stretched, creates labor and grows cool when we 
abandon it to its previous contraction. 

When we are producing a vacuum under a bell glass, the internal air, through 
its elasticity, ])resses the strata near the channel of evacuation ; thus labor is 
generated, and the thermometer will be seen, in effect, to indicate a lowering of 
temperature. If we now pe:^nit the external air to re-enter, it will compress the 
air which has remained in the bell, and will lose the movement bv which it was 
animati'd. In this exjHJriment, then, there is an expenditure of labor; hence, the 
thermometer will be found to indicate an elevation of temperature. We have 
been led by careful experiments to the following princijjle: ''When equal 
quantities of mechanical labor are ])roduced by causes purely thermic, there is a 
disappearance of equal (quantities of heat, whatever be the manner of operating ; 
recijjrocally there is a ])roduction of ecpial (piantities of heat whenever equal 
quantities of mechanical la])or are trausiurmed into effects purely molecular." TIkj 
constancy of the relation l)et\veen the labor jn'oduced and the labor consumed, 
whatever be the body which serves as a vehicle for this transformation, has been 
proved by the experiments of Grove, of Joule, of Laboidaye, and other savants. 
We are led to conclude from this that heat is ncjthing else than an active molecular 
force. 

How can we do otherwise than admit that this singular transmutation of action, 
this surprising transformation of force, depends on vibrations of the molecules of 
heated bodies, capable of {)roducing in the ether corresponding imdulalious, which 
are cajjalde in their turn of causing vibrations in the molecules of the bodies on 
which they fall? Light and heat are inodilications of the same mechanical 
principle; this, the capital experiments of Melloni have proved. These experi- 
ments have led to the following unforseen results: ''That a luminous source 
(the sun, the flame of a hunp) emits at the same time dillerent si)ecies of calorilic 
rays, distinguishable from one another by the greater or less facility with which 
they traverse certain diathermic substances." We now know that these calorific 



288 CONTINUOUS VIBRATORY MOVEMENT OF 

rays are characterized by differences of refrangibility or of velocity analogous to 
those which disting-uish from one another the colors which compose white light, 
and these differences have been proved as rigorously in regard to heat as to light. 

These specific qualities of calorific rays correspond to the lengths of different 
vibrations which are propagated in the homogeneous ether, or in the void spaces_ 
of ponderable matter, and which are capable of being transmitted more or less 
easily in diathermic mediinns, according to the nature and density of the latter. 
The calorific waves are analogous to the sonorous waves which ai"e propagated 
in the air, and which cause the elastic bodies with which they come in contact to 
vibrate. 

The invisibility of calorific rays in nowise diminishes the great probability of 
the hyjjothesis which considers light and heat as modifications of the same 
mechanical principle. In fact, visibility and invisibility depend solely on tlie 
conforuiation of our eye, (capable of responding only to determinate molecular 
movements,) and not on the nature of the force which produces the luminous and 
calorific sensations. 

The limited impressibility of our retina prevents us from perceiving the chemical 
rays situated beyond the violet extremity of the spectriun and the calorific rays 
jilaced beyond the red extremity. The former are constituted by vibrations too 
rapid and waves too short, the second by viV)rations too slow and waves too long. 
But it is not certain that these two kinds of vibrations may not be visilde for 
other living beings. What do we know of the perceptions which conduct the 
carrier-pigeon to its distant home, or of those which affect the antennte of the 
insect and apprise it of danger ? What of the telescopic view of the vulture, which 
precipitates itself towards its prey before it even appears to our eyes as a visible 
point on the horizon ? We are compelled to admit that, on the earth, in the air, 
and in the water there are beings so organized as to perceive sounds inaudible to 
our eais, as well as luminous ravs and colors of which we have no idea. Our 
pei'ceptions and faculties are limited to a very small portion of the immense 
chain of existences which stretches between the Creator and nothing. 

We believe it would be difficult to find a natural phenomenon which does not 
give rise to a development of electricity. Both mechanical and chemical actions, 
both light and heat, produce electricity. Thus, though it occasions numerous 
phenomena completely different from the other mjTuifestations of the activity of 
matter, electricity is found to be so intimately connected with those other phe- 
nomena that we are led to admit that it depends also on the same mechanical 
principle as heat and light. The experiments of Nairne, confirmed by those of 
M. Eecquerel, have taught us that metallic wires traversed by an electrical dis- 
charge, incapable of melting but sufficient to redden them, become shorter at the 
same time that their diameter is increased. Such wires, when traversed by a 
certain number of electric discharges, take an undulatory fonii which indicates a 
movement of the molecules of the wire perpendicularly to its length. Van Marura, 
towards the close of the last century, caused the discharge of his gigantic battery 
to pass through a tin wire placed horizontally on a sheet of paper. Under this 
action the wire was dissipated, leaving on the paper yellow traces, transversely- 
disposed as regards the direction of the discharge ; each of these traces had a 
peculiar texture, and all were arranged symmetrically at distances equal or 
multiple as among themselves. Some years earlier, Beccaria had made analo- 
gous experiments, and had interpreted the results by referring them to the prin- 
ciple of vibrations. 

INly own investigations have also been directed to this interesting subject, and 
I propose, on the present occasion, to repeat before my auditors the experiments 
of this kind which 1 have instituted, and to reproduce the results which I had 
the honor of submitting to the phj'sicists of the ninth reunion of Italian savants 
at Venice. 

On causing the discharge to pass through a gilt thread of silk, certain parts of 



ALL MATTER, TOXDERABLE AND IMPONDERABLE. 28& 

this thread remain covored with trohl after the passa£!;eof the electric! tji These 
parts are at equal distances, or distances which are multiples of one another, 
and these distances vary with the intensity of the discharii-e. The a'ohl which 
is seen still adhering to the silk thread must have been less ai^'itated than that 
which has undergone vohitilization ; here, therefore, were the points of miiiimiiui 
agitation. 

By substituting for the threads of gilt silk strips of tin, maintained in ])lace 
between two glasses, analogous eflects are obtained. Under the inlluence of the 
discharge the particles undergo fusion, impressing their traces on the glasses. 
We then discover an innumerable quantity of small and very fine filaments, which 
group themselves around the strip like the filings of iron around the poles of a 
magnet. 

Sometimes, from the point of the explosion shoot in all directions rectilinear 
trails of a copper color and semi-transpai'ent, forming a sort of divergent rays 
constituted by metallic particles reduced to a state of extreme teninty by the 
discharge. Exaunned with the microscope these trails are of a structure truly 
exquisite, and are disposed with admirable symmetry on each side of the central 
band, along the length of which are to be ol)served points of maximum and of 
mininmm intensity. A series of figures thus obtained are annexed : diilerent 
systems of linear filaments, of circular figures, of elliptical figures, continuous and 
discontinuous, affording a beautiful exen)plification of the coexist(^nco in the same 
IxkIv of several kinds of movement, preserving their individual character in all 
its integrity. 

It is quite surprising to see that certain of the electric rays arriving on the 
edge of the glasses, between which the s^trips of tin are confined, rel»ound on the 
surface of separation of the two mediums, and are reflected in making an angle of 
refiecticm equal to the angle of incidence. 

Is it possible, at sight of these figures, not to admit that the metallic vapor thus 
distributed has V)een subjected to a vibratory agitation, to a species of undulatory 
movement ? Nothing can be more beatitiful than these fine and granulated 
curves which cross each other in a thousand ways on the interior faces of the 
glass, and along which are disposed very minute metallic particles, visible, how- 
ever, to the naked eye when looked at on being transferred to the difi'used light 
of heaven. We are forced by this to conclude that the vibratory movement is 
transnutted by waves which increase as they are propagated, which arc* refiected 
to the surface of separation of the two mediums, and which reveal to the eye iho 
route traversed by the reflected wave. 

The discoveries of Faraday on the relation of magnetism to Ji(jhf,on the iU/twiii/c- 
tion of mnfjnrtic lines, antl on (li((i)uif/ii(:tism, the sounds which, according to the 
obscnations of Wertheim, of l^e la Rive, as well as my own, acccunpauy tenq)orary 
magnetism and interrupted currents, are phenomena of the same order, tending to 
prove that the forces of matter are in a reciprocal dependence so intimate that 
they are capable of producing one another by equivalent quantities. 

But the intervention of determinate conditicms for the ])roduction of such or 
Buch a kind of movement is necessarily sultordinate to the pre-existence, in every 
species of matter, of a molecular agitation which, under the influence of the 
difl'erent circumstances we havi* passed in review, may take any character what- 
ever, pass from one species of movement to another, or ])e added to other move- 
ments which may exist at the same time in the same body, and thus give vise to 
luminous, calorific, electro-magnetic or chemical phenomena, or to all tiiese move- 
mcjits at once. 

Thus we are led to admit, in the atoms of ponderable bodies, and with still 
stronger reason in the jnirticles of imponderable matter, an interior movement, a 
primordial property — that is to say, a general property which has always existed. 

The intensity of this interior agitation varies with the nature and dimensioiis 
of the body, with the volume and density of the atoms, with their in<livid;:a] 
19 s 



290 CONTINUOUS VIBRATORY MOVEMENT OF 

separation within the limits of their appropriate agitation. The nature of thig 
movement must vary with the nature of the bodies, each of them having a par- 
tiouhir movement wliich constitutes its normal state and impresses on it a special 
character. We can comprehend, therefore, that when two bodies are placed in 
contact, there must be a communication, a transference of their oscillatory and 
rotary movements, with loss on the one side and gain on the other. Let us take 
an example : suppose the initial molecular movement of copper to be more intense 
than that of zinc ; if the copper comes into collision with the zinc it will lose, 
according to the laws of mechanics, a part of its inherent force eipial to that which 
the zinc acquires. We conclude hence that the copper, considered as the col- 
liding body, is negative, w'hile the assailed zinc is positive. , 

Would it be rational to suppose that mechanical laws are tiiie when percep- 
tible masses are in question, and yet control neither atoms nor the particles of 
subtile matter? If it be true that there is nothing ahsohdely large nor absolutely 
little in creation, dimensions can never constitute a difference in relation to the 
forces which produce and the laws which govern phenomena. We consider then 
the action of light on the object which it renders visible, and that of heat which 
elevates its temperature, as something of an analogue to the sympathetic vibra- 
tion of a chord at the moment when the sound of another chord traverses the air. 
After an analogous manner, all actions at a distance and electro-magnetic induc- 
ti(jns present themselves as natural consequences of one same mechanical principle, 
conformably to the general economy of the system of the universe. 

One of the inost important consequences of this study is that sound, light, heat, 
electricity,* are not real entities, but simply modes of action and movements of 
matter communicated to our brain through the medium of the nerves. Tlie human 
organism may therefore be considered as an elastic system, of which the different 
parts receive the shocks of elastic mediums, and vibrate in unison with a certain 
numl)er of undulations each of which produces its complete effect independently 
of others. Here science stops ! The mysterious influence of matter on mind we 
must be content to regard as a secret which will yet be long hidden from us. 

Be it remarked that in the order of animated beings there are those which 
might be clustered in myriads on the point of a needle, and which live l)ut a few 
seconds ; and yet to them their life seems long and complete, and during those 
few seconds they may have a perception of niillitms of shocks such as those which 
constitute heat. There may very probably exist other beings which can never 
have a perception of a complete undulation of the ether, and which scarcely dis- 
tinguish a feeble portion of one ; in fine, even these elementary portions will 
always appear too complex to certain other beings which perceive nothing but 
the individual movements and displacements of atoms. These considerations 
enable us to appreciate how very limited are our senses, for, as has just been 
seen, the human race occupies but a few degrees of the indefinite scale of sensi- 
bility. Herein, perhaps, is one of the jjrincipal motives why man is often diverted 
from truth, even while seeking it; the instinctive repugnance which he feels to 
meditate upon simple and common phenomena, and to extend the laws which 
govern the domain that he is able to explore beyond the limits of his own sensi- 
bility, has led him to imagine complicated systems and to have recourse to the 
hypothesis of mysterious principles. 

These reflections lead us to another important consequence, namely, that if the 
philosophers who have considered our world as an atom in creation are right, 
under a certain point of view, we ought yet to recognize, witli other philosophers, 
that each atom is a world. Each atom possesses a proper activity, and is the 
seat of all the natural forces; these never manifest themselves outside of matter, 

[* The author is not warranted bj the present state of science to include electricity in the 
same class with sound, light, and heat. In statical electrical repulsion, which inauit'ests 
itself at a great distance, we have u pheuomeuon entirely unlike any eli'ect exhibited by sound, 
light, or heat.— J. H.j 



ALL MATTER, PONDERABLE AND LMPONDERABLE. 291 

and matter without tlicse forcos is a, pure alistraction. If there were but a sing'le 
atom in the universe, it wouhl always remain identical with itself; hut the tend- 
ency of each atom to maintain its original activity is continually c^juntervailed 
by the action of other atoms and the undulations of the ether. We are hence 
forced to admit that inertia and activiti/ are two facts inseparable from matter. 
We all know that in bodies which revolve upon an axis, inertia is manifested by 
a tendency of the particles to withdraw from that axis, a tendency which varies 
in intensity with the velocity of the rotation. We may ecpuiUy admit that in 
the uiolecular ij;Touj)s which constitute bodies, the force antagonistic to molecular 
gravitation is nothing else than the centrifugal force due to a rotary movement 
of each of the molecules around the centre of gravity of the group, and variable 
with the velocity of the molecules themselv'cs, a velocity which is ])roportional 
to their temjierature. 

Singe heat generates electricity, either directly or indirectly, and electricity 
heat ; since all other forces are transformed amcmg themselves and are resolved 
into different forms of movement, we must thence necessarily conclude that any 
})henomena whatsoever can only j)t'OCt'cd from the varied evolutions of the pritnor- 
diaJ force which the Creator has given to matter, of tchich it is the active and insepa- 
rabte pjrinciplc ; as to the nature of that force it will, perhaps, always be hiddeu 
to the humaui ntellect. 



RADIATION 



By John Tyxdall." 



I. — VISIBLE AXD INVISIBLE RADIATION. 

Between the mind of man and the outer world are interposed the nerves of 
the human body, which transhite, or enable the mind to translate, the impres- 
sions of that world into facts of conscit)usness and thought. 

Different nerves are suited to the perception of ditl'erent impressions. We do 
not see with the ear, nor hear with the eye, nor are we rendered sensible of 
sound by the nerves of the tongue. Out of the general assemblage of physi- 
cal actions, each nerve, or group of nerves, selects and responds to those for the 
perception of which it is specially organized. 

Tlie optic nerve passes from the brain to the back of the eye-ball and there 
spreads out, to form the retina, a web of nerve filaments, on which the images 
of external objects are projected by the optical portion of the eye. This nerve 
is limited to the apprehension of the phenomena of radiation, and, notwithstand- 
ing its marvellous sensibility to certain impressions of this class, it is singularly 
obtuse to other impressions. 

Nor does the optic nerve embrace the entire range even of radiation. Some 
rays, when they reach it, are incompetent to evoke its power, while others never 
reach it at all, being absorbed by the humors of the eye. To all rays which, 
whether they reach the retina or not, fail to excite vision, we give the name of 
invisible or obscure rays. All non-luminous bodies emit such ra3'S. There is 
no body in nature absolutely cold, and every body not absolutely cold emits 
rays of heat. But to render radiant heat fit to atiect the optic nerve a certain 
temperatui'e is necessary. A cool poker thrust into a lire remains dark for a 
time, but when its temperature has become equal to that of the surrounding 
coals it glows like them. In like manner, if a ciu-rent of electricity of gnidually 
increasing strength be sent through a wire of the refractory metal platinum, the 
wire first becomes sensibly warm to the touch ; for a time its heat augments, 
still, however, remaining obscure; at length we can no longer touch the metal 
with impunity; and at a certain definite temperature it emits a feeble red light. 
As the current augments in power the light augments in brilliancy, until finally 
the wire appears of a dazzling white. The light which it now emits is similar 
to that of the sun. 

By means of a prism Sir Isaac Newton unravelled the texture of solar light, 
and by the same simple instrument we can investigate the luminous changes of 
our platinum wire. In passing through the prism all its rays (and they are infi- 
nite in variety) are bent or refracted from their straight course ; and as difi'erent 
ravs are difierently refracted by the prism, we are by it enabled to separate one 
class of rays from another. By such prismatic analysis Dr. Draper has shown 
that when the platinum wire first begins to glow the light emitted is a pure red. 
As the glow augments the red becomes more brilliant, but at the same time 
orange ra3's are added to the emission. Augmenting the temperature still fur- 
ther, yellow rays a})pear beside the orange ; after the yellow, green rays are 
emitted ; and after the green come, in succession, blue, indigo, and violet rays. 

* The Rede Lecture, delivered in the senate house, befoie the university of Caiiibridgf, 
Eiiglaud, May IG, IbUa. 



RADIATION. 293 

To display all these colors at tlie same time the platinum wire must be ivJiife- 
liot ; the impression of whiteness being in fact produced by the simultaneous 
action of all these colors on the optic nerve. 

In tlie experiment just described we began with a jilatinuiii wire at an ordi- 
nary temperature, and gradually raised it to a white heat. At the begiiuiing, 
and before the electric current had acted at all upon the wire, it emitted invisi- 
ble rays. For some time after the action of the current had connnenced, and 
even for a time after the wire had become intolerable to the touch, its radiation 
was still invisible. The question now arises. What becomes of these invisible 
rays when the visible ones make their appearance? It will be jiroved in the 
se(juel that they maintain themselves in the radiation ; that a ray once emitted 
continues to be emitted when the temperature is increased, and hence the emis- 
sion from our platinum wu'e, even when it has attaiui'd its maximum brilliancy, 
consists of a mixture of visible and invisible rays. If, instead of the platinum 
"Wire, the eailh itself were raised to incandescence, the obscare radiation which 
it now emits would continue to i)e emitted. To reach incandescence the ])lauet 
would have to pass through all the stages of non-luminous radiation, and the 
final emission would embrace the rays of all these stages. There can hardly 
be a doubt that from the sun itself rays proceed similar in kind to those which 
the dark earth pours nightly into space. In fact, the various kinds of obscure 
rays emitted by all the jjlanets of our system are included in the present radia- 
tion of the sun. 

The great pioneer in this domain of science was Sir William Ilerschel. 
Causing a beam of solar light to pass through a prism, he resolved it into its 
colored constituents ; he formed what is technically called the scdar spectrum. 
Exposing thermometers to the successive colors he determined their heating 
power, and found it to augment from the violet or most refracted end to the red 
or least refracted end of the spectrum. But he did not stop here. Pushing his 
thermometers into the dark space beyond the red, ho found that, though the 
light had disappeared, the radiant heat falling on the instruments was more 
intense than that at any visible part of the spectrum. In fact. Sir William 
Ilerschel showed, and his results have been verified by various philosophers 
since his time, that besides its luminous rays, the sun pours forth a multitude 
of other rays more powerfully calorific than the luminous ones, but entirely 
unsuited to the jjurposes of vision. 

At the less rel'rangiltle end of the solar spectrum, then, the range of the sun's 
radiation is not limited by that of the eye. The same statement aj)plies to the 
more refrangilile end. Kitter discovered the extension »jf the spectrum into the 
invisible region beyond the violet; and, in recent times, this ultra-violet emis- 
sion has had jieculiar interest conferred u])on it by the admirable researches of 
Professor Stokes. The comi)lete s})ectrum of the sun consists, therefore, of 
three distinct parts: 1st, of ultra-red rays of high heating pcjwer, but unsuited 
to the purposes of vision ; 2d, of luminous rays which display the following 
succession of colors : red, orange, yellow, green, blue, indigo, violet ; 3d, of 
ultra-violet rays which, like the ultra-red ones, are incompetent to excite vision, 
but, unlike them, possess a very feeble heating power. In consequence, how- 
ever, of their chemical energy, these ultra-violet rays are of the utmost import- 
ance to the organic world. 

II. — ORIGIN AND CHARACTER OF RADIATION. THE ETHER. 

W^hen we see a platinum wire raised gradually to a white heat and emitting 
in succession all the colors of the s})ectrum, we are siiiqdy conscious of a series 
of changes in the conditi(m of our eyes. We do not see the actions in which 
these successive colors originate, but the mind irresistibly infers that the appear- 
ance of the colors corresponds to certain contemporaneous changes in the wire. 



294 RADIATION. 

What is the nature of these changes ? In virtne of what condition does the 
wire radiate at all f We tnnst now look from the wire as a whole to its con- 
stituent atoms. Could we see those atoms, even before the electric current has 
begun to act upon them, we should find them in a state of vibration. In this 
vibration indeed consists such warmth as the wire then possesses. Locke enun- 
ciated this idea with great precision, and it seems placed beyond the pale of 
douV)t by the excellent quantitative researches of Mr. Joule. "Heat," says 
Locke, '■'■ is a very brisk agitation of the insensible parts of the object, which 
produce in us that sensation from which we denominate the object hot ; so what 
in our sensation is heat in the object is nothing but motion^ When the electric 
current, still feeble, begins to pass through the wire, its first act is to intensify 
the vibrations already existing, by causing the atoms to sv.-ing through wider 
ranges. Technically speaking, the amplitudes of the oscillations are increased. 
The cuiTcnt does this, however, without altering the i)eriad of the old vibra- 
tions, or the time in which they were accomplished. But, besides intensifying 
the old vibrations, the current generates new and more rapid ones, and when a 
certain definite rapidity has been attained the wire begins to glow. The color 
first exhibited is red, which corresponds to the lowest rate of vibration of which 
the eye is able to take cognizance. By augmenting the strength of the electric 
current, more rapid vibrations are introduced, and orange rays appear. A 
quicker rate of vibration produces yellow, a still quicker green, and by further 
augmenting the rapidity we pass through blue, indigo, and violet, to the extreme 
ultra-violet rays. 

Such are the changes which science recognizes in the wu'e itself, as concur- 
rent with the visual changes taking place in the eye. But what connects the 
wire with this organ ? By what means does it send such intelligence of its 
varying condition to the optic nerve f Heat being, as defined by Locke, " a 
very brisk agitation of the insensible parts of an object," it is readily conceiv- 
able that on tottchhig a heated body the agitation may communicate itself to the 
adjacent nerves, and announce itself to them as light or heat. But the optic 
nerve does not touch the hot platinum, and hence the pertinence of the question, 
By what agency are the viVirations of the wire transmitted to the eye '? 

The answer to this question involves, perhaps, the most important physical 
conception that the mind of man has yet achieved ; the conception of a medium 
filling space and fitted mechanically for the transmission of the vibrations of 
light and heat, as air is fitted for the transmission of sound. This medium is 
called the luminifcrous ether. Every shock of every atom of our ]>latiniun wire 
raises in this ether a wave, which speeds through it at the rate of 186,000 miles 
a second. The ether suffers no rupture of continuity at the surface of the eye, 
the inter-molecular spaces of the various humors are filled with it ; hence tiie 
waves generated by the glowing platinum can cross these humors and impinge 
on the optic nerve at the back of the eye, Thus the sensation of light reduces 
itself to the communication of motion. Up to this point we deal with pure 
mechanics ; but the subsequent translation of the shock of the ethereal waves 
into consciousness eludes the analysis of science. As an oar dipping into the 
Cam generates systems of waves, which, speeding from the centre of disturbance, 
finally stir the sedges on the river's bank, so do "the viVn-ating atoms generate in 
the surrounding ether undulations, which finally stir the filaments of the retina. 
The motion thus imparted is transmitted with measurable and not very great 
velocity to the brain, where, by a process which science does not even tend to 
unravel, the tremor of the nervous matter is converted into the conscious impres- 
sion of light. 

Darkness might then be defined as ether at rest ; light as ether in motion. 
But in reality the ether is never at rest, for in the absence of light-waves we 
have heat-waves always speeding through it. In the spaces of the universe 
"both classes of undulations incessaijtlv conmiingle. Here the waves issuing 



RADIATION. 295 

from nnconnted centres cross, coincide, oppose, and pass tliroiigli each other, 
witliont confusion or ultimate extinction. Tlie waves from the zenith do not 
jostk' out of existence those from the horizon, and everj- star is seen across the 
entanglement of wave motions produced hy all other stars. It is the ceaseless 
thrill which those distant orbs collectively create in the ctlier which constitutes 
what we call the temperature of spaee. As the air of a room accommodates itself 
to the requirements of an orchestra, transmittin<if each vibration of every pipe and 
string, so docs the inter-stellar ether acconimodate itself to the requirements of 
light and heat. Its waves mingle in space without disorder, each being endowed 
■with an individuality as indestructible as if it alone had disturbed the universal 
repose. 

All vagueness with regard to the use of the terms radiation and absorptiun 
will now disappear. Radiation is the communication of vibratory motion to the 
ether, and when a body is said to be chilled l)y radiation, as, fttr example, the 
grass of a meadow on a starlight night, the meaning is, that the molecules of 
the grass have lost a portion of their motion by imparting it to the medium in 
which they vibrate. On the other hand, the waves of ether once generated, 
ma}'' so strike against the molecules of a body exposed to their action as to yield 
np their motion to the latter ; *and in this transfer of the motion fnmi the ether 
to the molecules consists the absorption of radiant heat. All the phenomena of 
heat are in this way reducible to interchanges of motion ; and it is j)urely as the 
recipients or the donors of this motion that we ourselves become conscious of 
the action of lieat and cold, 

ni. — THE ATOMIC THEORY IN KEFEKEXCE TO THE ETHER. 

The \''ord '' atoms " has been more than once employed in this discourse. 
Chemists have taught us that all matter is I'educible to certain elementary fonns, 
to which they give this name. These atoms are endowed with powers of mutual 
attraction, and under suitable circumstances they coalesce to form compounds. 
Thus oxygen and hydrogen are elements when separate, or merely mi-xed, but 
they may be made to combine no as to fonn molecules, each consisting of two 
atoms of hydrogen and one of oxygen. In this condition they constitute water. 
So also chlorine and sodium are elements, the former a ])ungent gas, the latter a 
soft metal; and they unite together to form chloride of sodium or common salt. 
In the same way the element nitrogen combines with hydrogen, in the propor- 
tion of one atom of the former to three of the latter, to form anunonia, or spirit 
of hartshorn. Picturing in imagination the atoms of elementary bodies as little 
spheres, the molecules of compound bodies must be pictured as groups of such 
spheres. This is the atomic theory as Dalton conceived it. Now, if this theory 
have any fotmdation in fact, and if the theory of an ether pervading space, and 
constituting the vehicle of atomic motion, be founded in fact, w(^ may assuredly 
expect the vibrations of elementary bodies to be profoundly modified by the act 
of combination. It is on the face of it almost certain that, both as regards radi- 
ation and absorption, that is to say, both as regards the communication of motion 
to the ether and the acceptance of motion from it, the deportment of the uucom- 
bined will be difl'erent from that of the combined atom^. 

IV. ABSORPTIOX OF RADIANT HEAT BY CASKS. 

We have now to submit these considerations to the only test by which they 
can tie tried, namely, that of expenment. An experiment is well defined as a 
question put to Nature ; but to avoid the risk of asking amiss, we ought to purify 
the (piestion from all adjuncts which do not necessarily lielong to it. Matter 
has been shown to l)e comjiosed of elementary constituents, by the compoujiding 
of which all its varieties are produced. But besides the chemical unions which 



296 EADIATION. 

they foi-ni, both elementary aiid compound bodies can nnite in another and less 
intimate way. By the attraction of cohesion erases and vapors aggregate to 
liquids anil solids witliout any change of their chemical nature. We do not yet 
know how the transmissijon of radiant heat may l)e aftected by the entanglement 
due to cohesion, and as our object now is to examine the influence of chemical 
union alone, we shall render our experiments more pm'o by liberating the atoms 
and molecules entirely from the bonds of cohesion, and employing them in the 
gaseous or vaporous form. 

Let us endeavor to obtain a perfectly clear mental image of the problem now 
before us. Limiting, in the first place, our inquiries to the phenomena of absorp- 
tion, we have to picture a succession of waves issuing from a radiant source and 
passing through a gas; some of them striking against the gaseous molecules 
and yielding up their motion to the latter ; others gliding round the molecules, 
or passing through the inter-molecular spaces without apparent hinderance. The 
problem before us is to determine whether such free molecules have any povrer 
whatever to stop the waves of heat, and if so, whether different molecules pos- 
sess this power in different degrees. 

The S(jurce of waves which I shall choose for these experiments is a plate of 
copper, against the back of which a steady sheet of flame is permitted to play. 
On emerging from the copper, the waves, in the first instance, pass through a 
space devoid of air, and then enter a hollow glass cylinder three feet long and 
three inches wide. The two ends of this cylinder are stopped by two plates of 
rock salt, this being the only solid substance which offers a scarcely sensible 
obstacle to the passage of the calorific waves. After passing through the tube, 
the radiant heat falls upon the anterior face of a thermo-electric pile, where it ia 
instantly aj^plied to the generation of an electric current. This current con- 
ducted round a magnetic needle deflects it and the magnitude of the deflection 
is a measure of the heat falling upon the pile. This famous instrument, and 
not an ordinary thermometer, is what we shall use in these inquiries, but we 
shall use it in a somewhat novel way. As long as the two opposite faces of the 
thermo-electric pile are kept at the same temperature, no matter how high that 
may be, there is no current generated. The current is a consequence of a differ- 
ence of temperature between the two opposite faces of the pile. Hence, if after 
the anterior face has received the heat from our radiating source, a second 
source, which we may call the compensating source, be permitted to radiate 
against the posterior face, this latter radiation will tend to neutralize the former. 
When the neutralization is perfect, the magnetic needle connected with the pile 
is no longer deflected, but points to the zero of the graduated circle over which 
it hangs. 

And now let us suppose the glass tube, through which pass the waves from 
the heated plate of copper, to be exliausted by an air-pump, the two sources of 
heat acting at the same time on the two opposite faces of the pile. Perfectly 
equal quantities of heat being imparted to the two faces, the needle points to 
zero. Let the molecules of any gas be now permitted to enter the exhausted 
tube ; if these m.olecules possess any sensible power of intercepting the calorific 
waves, the equilibrium previously existing will be destroyed, the compensating 
source will triumph, and a deflection of the magnetic needle will be the imme- 
diate consequence. From the deflections thus produced by different gases w'e 
am readily deduce the relative amounts of wave motion which their molecules 
intercept. 

In this way the substances mentioned in the following table were examined, 
a small portion only of each being admitted into the glass tube. The quantity 
admitted was just sufficient to depress a column of mercury associated with the 
tube one inch : in othea: words, the gases were examined at a pressure of one- 
thirtieth of an atmosphere. The numbers in the table express the relative 



RADIATION. 297 

amounts of wave motion absorbed liv the respective gases, the quant'.ty inter- 
cepted by atmospheric air being- taken as unity. 

Badiation throiujh gases. 



Name of gas. Relative absorption. 

Nitric oxide 1 .590 

Nitrous oxide 1,SG0 

Sulphide of liydrogeu 2,100 

Anuuunia 5,4G0 

Oletiant gas 6,030 

Sulphurous acid 6,480 



Name of gas. Relative absorption. 

Air 1 

Ox^-gen 1 

Nitrogen 1 

Hydrogen 1 

Carbonic oxide 7o0 

Carbonic acid 972 

Hydrochloric acid 1,005 

Kvcry gas in this tnble is perfectly transparent to light — that is to say, all 
waves within the limits of the visible spectrum pass through it without obstruc- 
tion ; but for the waves of slower period, emanating from our heated ])late of 
copper, cnonnous differences of absorptive 2iower are manifested. These differ- 
ences illustrate in the most unexpected manner the inlliience of chemical com- 
bination. Thus the elementary gases, oxygen, hydrogen, and nitrogen, and the 
mixture atmospheric air, prove to be practical vacua to the rays of heat ; for 
every ray, or, more strictly speaking, for every unit of wave motion, which any 
one of them is competent to intercept, perfectly transparent ammonia intercepts 
5,460 units, olefiant gas 6,030 units, while sulphurous acid gas absorbs 6,480 
units. Wluit becomes of the wave motion thus intercepted? It is apj)lied to 
the heating of the absorbing gas. Through air, oxygen, hydrogen, and nitro- 
gen, on the contrary, the waves of ether ])ass without absorption, and these gases 
are not sensibly changed in temperature by the most powerful calorific rays. The 
position of nitrous oxide in the foregoing table is worthy of particular notice 
In this gas avc have the same atoms in a state of chemical unicm that exis^ 
uucoinbined in the atmosphere j but the absorption of the compound is 1,S0C 
times that of the air. 

V. — FORMATION OF INVISIBLE FOCI. 

This extraordinary deportment of the elementary gases naturally ilirOcf^iJ 
attention to elementary bodies in another state of aggregation. Some of Mel- 
loni's results now attained a new signilicance } for this celebrated experimenter 
had found crystals of the element sulpluu' to be highly pervious lo radiant lieat ; 
he had also proved that lampblack and black glass (which owes its blackness 
to the element carbon) w'ere to a consideral)le (,'xtent transparent to calorilic lays 
of low refrangibility. These facts, harmonizing so strikingly witli the deport 
ment of the simple gases, suggested fiu-ther in(p.iiry. Sulphur dissolved in bisul- 
phide of carbon was fumid ahnost perj'ectly ti-ansparent. The dense and deeply 
colored element bromine was examined, and found Ci)mpctent to cut off the light 
of our most brilliant flames, while it transmitted t^ic invisible calorific rays with 
extreme freedom. Iodine, the comi)anion element of bromine, was next thought 
of, but it was found. im])raclicable to examine the substance in its usual solid 
condition. It, however, dis.solves freely in bisulphide of carbon. There is no 
chemical miion between the li(juid and the iodine; it is simply a case of solution, 
in which the uncombined atoms ol" ttio element can act upon the radiant heat. 
When }iermitted to do so, it was iunnd that a layer of disscdved iodine, sulliciently 
opafpie to cut off the light of the mid-day sun, was almost absolutely trans})arent 
to all invisible calorific rays. 

By i)rismat.ic analysis Sir William Ilersclad separatccl the luminous from the 
non-luminous rays of the sun, and ho also sought to render the ol>scure rays visi- 
ble by concentration. Intercepting the luminous portion of his sjjectruin ho 



298 RADIATION. 

brought, by a converging lens, the ultra-red rays to a focus, but by this conden- 
sation ho obtained no light. The solution of iodine offers a means of filtering 
the solar beam, or, failing it, the beam of the electric lamp, which renders attain- 
able more powerful foci of invisible rays than could possibly be obtained in the 
above experiment by Sir William Herschel ; for to form his spectrum he was 
obliged to operate upon solar light which had passed through a narrow slit or 
through a small aperture, the amount of the obscure heat admitted being limited 
by this circumstance. But with our opaque solution we may employ the entire 
surface of the largest lens, and, having thus converged the rays, luminous and 
non-luminous, we can intercept the fonner by the iodine, and do what we please 
with the latter. Experiments of this character, not only with the iodine solution, 
but also with black glass and layers of lampblack, were publicly performed at 
the Royal Institution in the early part of 1862, and the effects at the foci of 
invisible rays then obtained were such as had never been witnessed previously. 
In the experiments here referred to, glass lenses were employed to concentrate 
the rays. But glass, though highly transparent to the luminous, is in a high 
degree opaque to the invisible heat-rays of the electric lamp, and hence a large 
portion of those rays was intercepted by the glass. The obvious remedy here is 
to employ rock-salt lenses instead of glass ones, or to abandon the use of lenses 
wholly and to concentrate the rays by a metallic mirror. Both of these improve- 
ments have been introduced, and, as anticipated, the invisible foci have been 
thereby rendered more intense, ^'he mode of operating remains, however, the 
same in principle as that made known in 1862. It was then found that an 
instant's exposure of the face of the thermo-electric pile to the focus of invisible 
rays dashed the needles of a coarse galvanometer violently aside. It is now 
found that on substituting for the face of the thenuo-electric pile a combustible 
body, the invisible rays are competent to set that body on fire. 

VI. — ^VISIBLE AND INVISIBLE EATS OF THE ELECTEIC LIGHT. 

We have next to examine what proportion the non-luminous rays of the elec- 
tric light bear to the luminous ones. This the opaque solution of iodine enables 
us to do with an extremely close approximation to the truth. The pure bisul- 
phide of carbon, which is the solvent of the iodine, is perfectly transparent to 
the luminous, and almost periectly transparent to the dark rays of the electric 
lamp. Through the transparent bisulphide the total radiation of the lamp may 
be considered to pass, while through the solution of iodine only the dark rays 
are transmitted. Determining, then, by means of a thermo-electric pile, the 
total radiation, and deducting from it the purely obscure, we obtain the amount 
of the purely luminous emission. Experiments, performed in this way, prove 
that if all the visible rays of the electric light were converged to a focus of daz- 
zling brilliancy, its heat would only be one-ninth of that produced at the unseen 
focus of the invisible rays. 

Exposing his thermometers to the successive colors of the solar spectrum, Sir 
William Herschel determined the heating power of each, and also that of the 
region beyond the extreme red. Then drawing a straight line to represent the 
length of the spectrum, he erected, at various points, perpendiculars to represent 
the calorific intensity existing at those points. Uniting the ends of all his per- 
pendiculars, he obtained a curve which showed at a glance the manner in which 
the heat was distributed in the solar spectrum. Professor Miiller, of Freiburg, 
with improved instruments, afterwards made similar experiments, and constructed 
a more accurate diagram of the same kind. We have now to examine the dis- 
tribution of heat in the spectnun of the electric light ; and for this purpose we 
shall employ a particular form of the thermo-electric pile, devised b^ Melloni. 
Its face is a rectangle, which, by means of movable side pieces, can be rendered 
as narrow as desired. We can, for example, have the face of the pile the tenth, 
the hundredth, or even the thousandth of an inch in breadth. By means of an 



RADIATION. 299 

endless screw, tLis linear thermo-electric jnle may bo moved tlironirh tlie entire 
spectrum, each of its rays being selected in succession, the amount of heat fall- 
ing upon the pile at every point of its march being declared Ity an associated 
magnetic needle. 

When this instrument is brought up to the violet end of the spectrum of the 
electric light, the heat is found to be insensible. As the pile gradually moves 
from the violet end towards the red, heat soon manifests itself, augmenting as 
we approach the red. Of all the colors of the visible spectrum the red possesses 
the highest heating power. On pushing the pile into the dark region beyond 
the red, the heat, instead of vanishing, rises sudd(!nly and enormously in inten- 
sity, until at some distance l)eyond the red it attains a maximum. Jiloving the 
pile still forward, the thermal power falls, somewhat more suddenly than it rose. 
It then gradually shades away, but for a distance beyond the red greater tlian 
the length of the whole visible spectrum, signs of heat may bo detected. Draw- 
ing, as Sir William Herschel did, a datum line, and erecting along it perpendic- 
ulars proportional in length to the thermal intensity at the respective points, we 
obtain the extraordinary curve which exhibits the distribution of heat in the 
spectrum of the electric light. In the region of dark rays beyond the red, the 
curve shoots np in a steep and massive peak — a kind of Matterhorn of heat, 
which dwarfs by its magnitude the portion of the diagram representing the 
luminous radiation. Indeed, the idea forced upon the mind by the inspection of 
this diagram is that the light rays are a mere insigniticant appendage to the 
dark ones, thrown in as it were by nature for the purposes of vision. (See figure, 
where the space ABCD represeuta the non-luminous, and CBE the luminous 
radiation.) 




The diagram drawn by Professor Miiller to represent the distribution of heat 
in the solar spectrum is not l)y any means so striking as that just d(!scribed, and 
the reason, doul)tless, is that pnor to reaching the earth the solar rays liave to 
traverse our atmosphere. The aqueous vapor there diffused acts very eneigeti- 
cally upon the ultra red rays, and by it the suunnit of the peak representing the 
sun's invisi]>le radiation is cut off. A similar lowering of tlie mountain of invisi- 
ble heat is ol)served when the rays from the electric light are permitted to pass 
through a film of water, which acts upon them as the atmospheric vapor acts 
up(jn the rays of the sun. 

VII. — COMBUSTION BY INVISIBLE RATS. 

The sun's invisible rays transcend the visible ones in heating power, so that 
if the alleged performances of Archimedes during the siege of Syracuse had any 



300 KADIATION. 

foundation in fact, the dark solar rays would liave been the philosopher's chief 
ag-ents of combustion. On a small scale we can readily produce, with the purely 
invisible rays of the electric light, all that Archimedes is said to have performed 
with the sun's total radiation. Placing behind the electric light a small concave 
mirror, the rays are converged, the cone of reflected rays and their point of 
convergence being rendered clearly visible by the dust always floating in the 
air. Interposing between the lunnnous focus and the source of rays our solution 
of iodine, the light of the cone is entirely cut away, but the intolerable heat 
experienced when the hand is placed, even for a moment, at the dark focus, sliovvs 
that the calorific rays pass unimpeded through the opaque solution. 

Almost anything that ordinary fire can effect may be accomplished at the focus 
of invisible rays, the air at the focus remaining at the same time perfectly cold, 
on account of its transparency to the heat-rays. An air thermometer with a hol- 
low rock-salt bulb would be unaffected by the heat of the focus ; there would be 
no expansion, and in the open air there is no convection. Tlie ether at the focus, 
and not the air, is the substance in which the heat is embodied. A block of wood 
placed at the focus absorbs the heat, and dense volumes of smoke rise swiftly 
upwards, showing the manner in which the air itself would rise if the invisible 
rays were competent to heat it. At the perfectly dark focus dry paper is instantly 
inflamed; cliips of wood are speedily burnt up; lead, tin, and zinc are fused; and 
discs of charred paper are raised to vivid incandescence. It might be supposed that 
tlie obscure rays would show no preference for black over white, but they do show 
a preference, and to oV)taiu rapid combustion, the body, if not already black, ought 
to be blackened. When metals are to be burned, it is uecessaiy to blacken or 
otherwise tarnish them, so as to diminish their reflective power. Blackened zinc 
foil, wliL-n brought into the focus of invisible rays, is instantly caused to blaze, 
and burns with its peculiar purple flame. Magnesium wire flattened, or tarnished 
magnesium ribbon, also bursts into splendid combustion. Pieces of charcoal sus- 
pended in a receiver full of oxygen are also set on fire, the dark rays after having 
passed through the receiver still possessing sufficient power to ignite the charcoal, 
and thus initiate the attack of the oxygen. If, instead of being plunged in oxy- 
gen, the charcoal be suspended in vacuo, it immediately glows at the place where 
the focus falls. 

VIII. — TRANSMUTATIOl^ OF RATS : CALORESCEKCE.* 

Eminent experimenters were long occupied in demonstrating the substantial 
identity of light and radiant heat, and we have now the means of offering a new 
and striking proof of this identity. . A concave mirror produces beyond the 
object which it reflects an inverted and magnified image of the object; with- 
drawing, for example, our iodine solution, an intensely luminous inverted image of 
the carl>on points of the electric light is formed at the focus of the mirror employed 
in the foregoing experiments. "VVhen the solution is interposed and the light is 
cut away, what becomes of this image ? It disappears from sight, but an invisi- 
ble thermograph remains, and it is only the peculiar constitution of our eyes that 
disqualifies us from seeing the picture formed Ijy the calorific rays. Falling on 
white paper, the image chars itst^lf out ; falling on black paper, two holes are 
pierced in it, corresponding to the images of the two coal points ; but falling on 
a thin plate of carbon in vacuo, or upon a thin sheet of platinized })lantiuum, 
either in vacuo or in air, radiant heat is converted into light, and the image stamps 
itself in vivid incandescence upon bcnh the carbon and the metal. Results sinnlar 
to those obtained with the electric light have also been obtained with the invisi- 
ble rays of the lime light and of the sun. 

Before a Cambridge audience, it is hardly necessary to refer to the excellent 
researches of Professor Stokes at the opposite end of the specti'um. The above 

* I borrow this term trom Professor Cliallis, Philosophical Magazine, \o\. xii., p. 521. 



RADIATION. 301 

results constitute a kind of complempnt to his discoverips. Professor Stokes 
named the phenomena which he has discovered and investia^ated, Fluorescence ; 
for the new phenomena liere described, 1 have proposed the term CaJorcscence. 
He, ])y the interposition of a proper me(hnm, so loivered the refranijil)ih"ty of the 
uhra-viidet rays of the spectrum as to render tliem visible ; and here, by the 
interpositi()n of the plantinnm foil, the refranjifibility of the idtrared rays is so 
exalted as to render them visible. Looking tln-ong-h a prism at the incandescent 
image of the carbon points, the light of the imago is decomposed and a com- 
plete spectrum obtained. The invisii)le rays of the electric light, remolded l)y 
the atoms of the ])latinum, shine thus visibly forth — •ultra-red rays being con- 
verted into red, orange, yellow, green, blue, indigo, and ultra-violet ones. Could 
we, moreover, raise the original source of rays to a sufficiently high temperatui-e, 
we might not only obtain from the dark rays of such a source a single incandes- 
cent image, but from the dark rays of this image we might obtain a second one, 
from th(! dark rays of the second a third, and so on — a series of complet(! images 
and spectra being thus extracted from the invisible emission of the primitive 
source. * 

IX. — DEADXESS OF THE OPTIC KERVE TO THE CALORIFIC RATS. 

The layer of iodine used in the foregoing experiments, when placed before 
the eye, intercepted the light of the noonday sun. Nf) trace of light from the 
electric lamp was visible, even in the darkest room, when a white screen was 
placed at the focus of the mirror. It was thought, however, tliat if the retina 
itself were brought into the focus the sensation of light might be experienced. 
The danger of this experiment was twofold. If the dark rays were absorbed in 
a high degree by the humors of the eye the albumen of the humors might coagu- 
late along the line of the rays. If, on the contrary, no such high absor])tion 
tof'k place, the rays might reach the retina with a force sufficient to destroy it. 
To test the likelihood of these results experiments were made on water and on 
a solution of alum, and they showed it to be very improbable that in tlie brief 
time requisite for an experiment any serious damage could be done. The eye 
was, therefore, caused to approach the dark focus, no defence in the first instance 
being provided; but the heat acting upon the parts surrounding the pu{)il could 
not l>e borne. An aperture was therefore pierced in a plate of metal, and the 
eye placed behind the aperture was caused to approach the jwint of convergence 
of invisible rays. The focus was attained, first by the pupil and afterwards b}'' 
the retina, liemoving the eye, but permitting the plate of metal to remain, a 
sheet of platinum foil was placed in the position occupie(i by the retina a moment 
before. The platinum became red-hot. No sensible damage was done to the 
eye by this experiment ; no impression of light was })roduced ; the optic nerve 
was not even conscious of heat. 

But the humors of the eye are known to be highly impervious to the invisible 
calorific rays, and the question therefore arises, " did the radiation in the fore- 

* On investigating: the calorcscence prodticcJ by rays transmitted throngii plassos of vari- 
ous colors, it was found that in the case of certain specimens of blue plass thu pla- 
tinum foil glowed Willi a. piulc or purplish light. The ctTcct was not subjt'ctive, and consid- 
erations of obvious interest are suggested by it. DilVercnt kinds of black glass ditfer notably 
as to their power of transmitting radiant heat. In thin jjlates some descriptions tint the sun 
with a greenish hue; others make it appear a glowing nd without any tract: of gn'cii. Tho 
latter are by far inore diathermic than the former. In fact, carbon, when |)erlrctly dissolved, 
and incorporated with a good white glass, is highly transparent to the calorific rays, and by 
employing it as an absorbent, the phenomena of "calorescence" may be obtained, though in a 
less striking form than with the iodine. The black glass chosen for thermometers, and intended 
to absorb completely the solar heat, may entirely fail in this object if the glass in whiidi the car- 
bon is incorporated be colorless. To render the bulb of f thermometer a perfect absorbent, tho 
glass with which the carbon is incorporated ought in the lirst instance to be preen. Soon 
alter the discovery of fluorescence, Dr. W. A. Miller pointed to the lime light as an illus'ra- 
tiou of exalted refrangibility. Direct experiments have since entirely coutirmed the view 
expressed at page 21U of bis work ou CItcmistry, published in IriO.'). 



302 



KADIATION. 



going experiment reacli the retina at all ?" The answer is that the rays were in 
part transmitted to the retina, and in part absorbed by the humors. Experi- 
ments on the eye of an ox showed that the proportion of obscure rays which 
reached the retina amounted to 18 per cent, of the total radiation, while the 
luminous emission from the electric light amounts to no more than 10 per cent, 
of the same total. Were the purely luminous rays of the electric lamp converged 
by our mirror to a focus, there can be no doubt as to the fate of a retina placed 
there. Its ruin would be inevitable ; and yet this would be accomplished by 
an amount of wave motion but little more than half of that which the retina bears 
without being conscious of it at the focus of invisible rays. 

This subject will repay a moment's further attention. At a common distance 
of a foot the visible radiation of the electric light is 800 times the light of a 
candle. At the same distance, that portion of the radiation of the electric light 
which reaches the retina but fails to excite vision is about 1,500 times the lumin- 
ous radiation of the candle.* But a candle on a clear night can readily be seen 
at a distance of a mile, its light at this distance being less than one 20,000,000th 
of its light at the distance of a foot. Hence, to make the former equal in power 
to the non-luminous radiation received from the electric light at a foot dis- 
tance, its intensity would have to be multiplied by 1,500x20,000,000, or by 
30,000,000,000. Thus the thirty thousand millionth part of the radiation from 
the electric light, received unconsciously by the retina at the distance of a foot, 
would, if slightly changed in character, be amply sufficient to provoke vision. 
Nothing could more forcibly illustrate that special relationship supposed by 
Melloni and others to subsist between the optic nerve and the oscillating periocfs 
of luminous bodies. Like a musical string, the optic nerve responds to the wave? 
with which it is in consonance, while it refuses to be excited by others of almost 
infinitely greater energy, whose periods of recuiTence are not in imison with its 
own. 



X. — PEESISTENCE OF RAYS. 

At an early part of this lecture it was affirmed that when a platinum wire was 
gradually raised to a state of high incandescence, new rays were constantly 
added, while the intensity of the old ones was increased. Thus in Dr. Draper's 
experiments the rise of temperature that generated the orange, yellow, green, and 
blue rays augmented the intensity of the red ones. What is true of the red is 
true of every other ray of the spectrum, visible and invisible. We cannot indeed 
see the augmentation of intensity in the region beyond the red, but we can 
measure it and express it numerically. With this view the following experiment 
was performed : A spiral of platinum wire was surrounded by a small glass globe 
to protect it from currents of air; through an orifice in the globe the rays could 
pass from the spiral and fall afterwards upon a thermo-electric pile. Placing in 
front of the orifice an opaque solution of iodine, the platinum was gradually 
raised from a low dark heat to the fullest incandescence, with the following results: 



Appearance of spiral. 



Energ'y of ob- 
scure radiation. 



Dark 1 

Dark, but hotter 3 

Dark, but still hotter 5 

Dark, but still hotter 10 

Feeble red 19 

Dull red 25 

Bed 37 



Appearance of spiral. 



Energy of ob- 
scure radiation. 



Full red 62 

Orange 89 

Bright orange 144 

Yellow 202 

AVhite 276 

Intense white 440 



* It Avill be borue in mind that the heat which any I'ay, luminous or non-luminous, is com- 
petent to generate is the true measure of the energy of the ray. 



RADIATION. 303 

Thus the aui^mojitation of the electric current, which raises the wire from its 
primitive dark coiulition to an intense white heat, exalts at the same time the 
energy of the obscm'c radiation, until at the end it is fully 440 times what it was 
at the beginning'. 

"What has been here proved true of the totality of the ultra-red rays is true for 
each of them singly. Placing our linear thermo-electric pile in any part of the 
ultra-red spectrum, it may be proved that a ray once emitted continues to be 
emitted with increased energy as the temj)eratiu'e is augmented. The ])latinura 
s])iral so often referred to being raised to whiteness by an electric current, a bril- 
liant spectrum was formed from its light. A linear thermo-electric pile was 
placed in the region of obscure rays beyond the red, and by diminishing the 
current the spiral was reduced to a low temperature. It was then caused to pass 
through various degrees of darkness and incandescence, with the following results: 



Appearauce of spiral. nergy o o - 
' ^ ^ scare rays. 

Dark 1 

Dark 6 

Faint red 10 

Dull red 13 

lied 18 



Appearance of spiral. "^sTuTe^ayf ' 

Full red 27 

Orange 60 

Yellow 93 

Full white 122 



Here, as in the former case, the dark and bn'ght radiation reached their maxi- 
mum together ; as the one augmented the other augmented, until at last the 
energy of the obscure rays of the particular reiVangibility here chosen became 
122 tiii:ies what it was at first. To reach a white heat the wire has to pass 
through all the stages of invisible radiation, and in its most brilliant condition it 
still embraces, in an intensified form, the rays of all those stages. 

And thus it is with all other kinds of matter, as far as they have hitherto been 
examined. Coke, whether brought to a white heat by the electric cuiTent, orl)y 
the oxyhydrogen jet, poius out invisible rays with augmented energy as its light 
is increased. The same is true of lime, bricks, and other substances. It is true 
of all metals which are capable of being heated to incandescence. It also holds 
good for phosphorus burning in oxygen. Every gush of dazzling light has 
associated with it a gush of invisible radiant heat, which far transcends the light 
in energy. This condition of things applies to all bodies capable of being raised 
to a white heat, either in the Bolid or the molten condition. It would doubtless 
also apply to the luminous fogs fonned by the condensation of incandescent 
vapors. In such cases, when the curve representing the radiant energy of the 
body is constructed, the obsciu'e radiation towers upwards like a mountain, the 
buninous radiation resembling a mere spur at its base. 

What, then, is the real origin of the luminous radiation ? We find it appear- 
ing when the radiating body has attained a certain temperature; or, in other 
words, when tlie vibrating atoms of the body have attained a certain width of 
swing. In solid and molten bodies a certain amplitude cannot be surpassed 
without the introduction of periods of vibration, which provoke the sense of vision. 
If permitted to speculate, one might ask, arc not these more rapid vibratitjns the 
product of the slower? Is it not really the mutual action of the atoms, when 
they swing through very wide spaces, and thus encroach upon each other, that 
causes them to tremble in quicker periods? If so, it matters not by what agency 
the large swinging space is obtained ; we shall have light-giving vibrations 
associated with it. It matters not whether the large amplitudes are produced by 
the strokes of a hammer, or by the blows of the molecules of a non-luminous gas, 
such as the air at some height above a gas-flame ; or by the shock of the ether 
])articles when transmitting radiant lieat. The result in all cases will bo incan- 
descence. Thus the invisible waves of our liltercd electric beam, with which 



304 



RADIATION. 



iiicandescence lias been produced, may be regarded as generating synclironons 
vibrations in the platinum on which they impinge ; but once these vibrations 
attain a certain amplitude, the mutual jostling of the atoms would produce quicker 
tremors, and the light-giving waves would follow as the necessary progeny of 
the heat-giving vibrations. From the very brightness of the light of some of 
the fixed stars we may infer the intensity of the dark radiation, which is the 
preem'sor and inseparable associate of their luminous rays. 

XI. — ABSORPTION OF RADIANT HEAT BY VAPORS AND ODORS. 

We commenced the demonstrations brought forward in this lecture by experi- 
ments on permanent gases, and we have now to turn our attention to the vapors 
of volatile liquids. Here, as in the case of the gases, vast differences have been 
proved to exist between various kinds of molecules, as regards their i^ower of 
intercepting the calorific waves. While some vapors allow the waves a com- 
paratively free passage, in other cases the minutest bubble of vapor, introduced 
into the tube already employed for gases, causes a deflection of the magnetic 
needle. Assuming the absorption etlccted by air at a pressure of one atmosphere 
to be unity, the following are the absorptions effected by a series of vapors at a 
pressure of -g'^jth of an atmosphere : 



Name of vapor. 



Absorption. 



Bisulphide of carbon 47 

Iodide of methyl 115 

Benzol 136 

Arnylene 32 1 



Name of vapor. Absorption. 

Sulphuric ether 440 

Formic ether 548 

Acetic ether 612 



Bisulphide of carbon is the most transparent vapor in this list, and acetic 
ether the most opaque ; ^Y)^^' ^^ ^" atmosphere of the former, however, pro- 
duces 47 times the effect of a whole atmosphere of air, while J^th of an atmo- 
sphere of the latter juoduces 612 times the effect of a whole atmosphere of air. 
Itcducing dry air to the pressure of the acetic ether here employed, and comparing 
them then together, the quantity of wave motion intercepted by the latter would 
be man}' thousand times that intercepted by the air. 

Any one of these vapors discharged in the free atmosphere, in front of a body 
emitting obscure rays, intercepts more or less of the radiation. A similar effect 
is jn-oduced l)y perfumes diffused in the air, though their attenuations is known 
to be almost infinite. Carrying, for example, a current of dry air over bibulous 
paper moistened by patchouli, the scent taken up by the current absorbs 30 times 
the quantity of heat intercepted by the air which carries it; and yet patchouli 
acts moie feebly on radiant heat tlian any other perfume yet examined. Here 
fidlow the results obtained with various essential oils, the odor, in each case, 
being carried by a current of dry air into the tube akeady employed for gases 
and vapors : 



Name of perfume. 



Absorption. 



Patchouli 30 

Sandal wood 32 

Geranium 33 

Oil of cloves 34 

Otto of roses 37 

Bergarnot 44 

Neroli 47 

Lavender 60 

Lemon 65 



Name of perfume. Absorption. 

Portugal 67 

Thyme 68 

Rosemary 74 

Oil of laurel 80 

Camomile ff owers 87 

Cassia 109 

Spikenard 355 

Aniseed 372 



RADIATION. 305 

Tims tlip absoi-jition l)y a tube full of dry air heinir one, that of tlio oilor of 
patchouli (liHused in it is 30, that of hivendci GO, that of rosemary 74, wliilothat 
of aniseed amounts to 372. It would be idle to speculate on the quantities of 
matter concerned in these actions. 

Xll. AQUEOUS VAPOK IN KELATIOX TO TERKESTRIAL TEMPERATURES. 

"Wc arc now fully prepared for a result which, without such preparation, might 
appear incredible. AVater is, to some extent, a volatile body, and oiu- atmo- 
sphere, resting as it does upon the surface of the ocean, receives from it a con- 
tinuous supply of aqueous vapor. It would be an error to confound clouds of 
fog or any visible mist with the vapor of water; this vapor is a perfectly inipal- 
pai)le gas, diffused, even on the clearest da^'S, throughout the atmosphere. Com- 
])ared with the great body of the air, the aquet)us vapor it contains is of almost 
inlinitesimal amount, 99A out of every 100 parts of the .atuKv^phere being com- 
})osed of oxygen and nitrogen. In the al>sence of experiment we should never 
think of ascri))ing to this scant and varying constituent any important inlliience 
on terrestrial radiation ; and yet its influence is far more jiotent than tliat of the 
great liody of the air. To say that on a day of average humidity in England 
the atmospheric vapor exerts ioO times the action of the air itself, would certainly 
be an understatement of the I'act. The peculiar (pialities of this vapor, and the 
circumstance that at ordinary temperatures it is very near its jioint of cojidensa- 
tion, render the results which it yields in the apparatus already described less 
than the truth; and I am not prepared to say that the absorption by this sub- 
stance is not 200 times that of tlie air in which it is dili'used. Comparing a 
single molecule of aqueous vapor with an atom of either of the main constitu- 
ents i)f our atmosphere, 1 am not prepared to say how many thousand times the 
action of the former exceeds that of the latter. 

These large numbers depend in ]iart upon the extreme feebleness of the air; 
the power of aquecms vapor seems vast, liccause that of the air with which it is 
compared is infinitesimal. Absolutely considered, however, this substance exer- 
cises a very potent action. Probably a column of ordinary air 10 feet long 
would intercept from 10 to 15 ))er cent, of the heat radiated from an obscure 
source, and I think it certain that tlie larger of these numbers fails to exi)ress the 
altsorption of the terrestrial rays effecteii within 10 feet of the earth's surface. 
This is of the utmost consequence to the life of the world. Imagine the super- 
ficial molecules of the earth trembling with the motion of heat, and inqiarting it 
to the surrounding ether ; this tuotion would be carried rapidly away and lost 
forever to our })lanet if the waves of ether had nothing but the air to contend 
with in their outward course. But the acpieous vajior takes up the motion of the 
ethereal waves and becomes thereby heated, thus wrapjiing the earth like a warm 
garment, and protecting its surface from the deadly chill which it would other- 
wise sustain. Various philosophers have speculated on the influence of an 
atmosi)heric envelope. De Saussure, Fourier, M. Pouillet, and Mr. IIoj)kins 
liave, one and all, enriched scientific literature with contributions on this subject, 
but the considerations which these emipent men have ajiplied to atmospheric air 
have now to be transferred to acpieous va])or. 

The (jbservations of meteorologists furnish important, though hitherto un(()n- 
Rcious, evidence of the influence of this agent. AVherever the air is dry we are 
liable to daily extrenu-s of ten)perature. J'y day, in such places, the sun's heat 
reaches the earth unimpeded and renders the maximum high ; by night, on the 
other hand, the earth's heat esca})es unhindered into space and renders the nn'ni- 
mum low. Hence the difference betweoi the maxinnim an<l mininnnn is greatest 
where the air is driest. In the plainsof India, on the heightsof the Himalaya, 
in central Asia, in Australia, wherever drought reigns we have the heat oJ" (hiy 
forcibly contrasted with the chill of night. In the .Sahara itself, when the sun's 
20 s 



306 RADIATION. 

rays cease to impinge on the burning soil, the temperature runs rapidly down to 
freezing, because there is no vapor overhead to check the calorific drain. And 
here another instance might be added to the numbers already known, in which 
nature tends, as it were, to check her own excess. By nocturnal refrigeration 
the aqueous vapor of the air is condensed to water on the surface of the earth, 
and, as only the superficial portions radiate, the act of condensation makes water 
the radiating body. Now experiment proves tliat to the rays emitted by water, 
aqueous vapor is especially opaque. Hence the very act of condensation, con- 
sequent on terrestrial cooling, becomes a safeguard to the earth, imparting to its 
radiation that particular character wliicli renders it most liable to be prevented 
from escaping into space. 

It might, however, be urged that, inasmuch as we derive all our heat from the 
sun, the self-same covering which pi'otects the earth from cliill must also shut out 
the solar radiation. This is partially true, but only partially; the sun's rays are 
different in quality from the earth's raj's, and it does not at all follow that the 
substance which absorbs the one must necessarily absorb the other. Through 
a laver of water, for example, one-tenth of an inch in thickness, the sun's ra3"S 
are transmitted with comparative freedom ; but through a layer half this thick- 
ness, as Melloni has proved, no single ray from the warmed earth could pass. In 
like manner, the sun's rays pass with comparative freedom through the aqueous 
vapor of the air, the absorbing power of this substance being nuunly exerted 
upon the heat that endeavors to escape from the earth. In consequence of this 
differential action upon solar and terrestrial heat, the mean temperature of our 
planet is higher than is due to its distance from the sun. 

XIII. — LIQUIDS AND THEIR VAPOES IN RELATION TO RADIANT HEAT. 

The deportment here assigned to atmospheric vapor has l>een established by 
dir<!Ct experiments on air taken from the streets and parks of London, from the 
downs of Epsom, from the hills and sea-beach of the Isle of Wight, and also 
by experiments on air in the first instance dried and afterwards rendered arti- 
ficially humid by ptn-e distilled water. It has also been established in the fol- 
lowing way : Ten volatile liquids were taken at random, and the power of these 
liquids, at a common thickness, to intercept the waves of heat was carefully deter- 
nrined. The vapors of the liquids were next taken, in quantities proportional to 
the quantities of liquid, and the power of the vapors to intercept the waves of 
heat was also determined. Conmiencing with the substance which exerted the 
least absorptive power, and proceeding upward to the most energetic, the follow- 
ing order of absorption was observed : 

Liquids. Vapors. 

Bisulphide of carbon. Bisulphide of carbon. 

Chloroform. C hloroform. 

Iodide of methyl. Iodide of methyl. 

Iodide of ethyl. Iodide of ethyl. 

Benzol. Benzol. 

Amylene. Amylene. 

Sulphuric ether. Sulphuric ether. 

Acetic ether. Acetic ether. 

Formic ether. Formic ether. 

Alcohol. Alcohol. 
Water. 

We here find the order of absorption in both cases to be the same. We have 
liberated the m(decules from the bonds which trammel them more or less in a 
liquid condition ; but this change in their state of aggregation does not change 
tlieir relative powers of absorption. Nothing could nu^rc clearly prove that tlio 



RADIATION. 307 

act of .ihsorption dcponils upon the individual molocnlo, which equallv asserts 
its power in tlie liquid and the p;aseous state. "\V(^ may asstuvdly conclude iVoni 
the above table tliat the position of a vapor is determined by that of its liquid. 
Now, at the very foot of the list of liquids stands water, signaliziui^ itself ab(»vc' 
all others by its enormous power of abs<)r[)tion ; and from this fact, even if ii.» 
din'ct experiment on the vapor of water had ever been made, we should be enti- 
tled to rank tliat vapor as the most powerful absorber of radiant heat hitherto 
discovered. It has been proved by experiment that a .shell of air two inclics in 
thiclvuess surrounding our ])lanet,:wid satiu'ated witli the vapor of sul])huric cllicr, 
would intercept 35 per cent, of the earth's radiation; and thou<Th the quantity (d 
aqueous vapor necessai'V to saturate air is much less than the anuMuit of sulphuric 
etlier vapor which it can snst.ain, it is still extremely jtrobablc that the estimate 
already made of the action of atmospheric vapor within 10 feet of the earth's 
surface is altogether under the mark, and that we are indebtccl to this wonderful 
substance, to an extent not accurately determined, but certainly far beyond what 
has hitherto been imagined, for the tem])erature now existing at the surface of the 
globe. 

XIV. EECIPKOCITT OF RADIATIOX AND ABSOIU'TIOX. 

Throughout tlie reflections which have hitherto occu|iied us the image before 
the mind has been that of a radiant source generating calorific waves, which, on 
passing among the sc^ittered molecules of a gas or vapor, were intercepted by 
those molecules in various degrees. In all cases it was the transference of 
motion from the ether to the comparatively (juiescent molecules of the gas or 
vapor. We have now to change the form of our conception, and to figure these 
molecules not as absorbers but as radiators — not as the recipients l)ut as the 
originators of wave motion ; that is to say, we must figure them vibrating and 
generating in the surrounding ether unduhitions which speed through it with the 
velocity of light. Oiu* object now is to inquire whether tlie act of chemical com- 
bination, which proves so potent as regards the phenomena of absorption, does 
not also manifest its power in the phenomena of radiation. For the examination 
of this question it is necessary, in the first place, to heat our g;uses and vaj)ors t<» 
the same temperature, and then examine their power of discharging the motion 
thus imparted to them upon the ether in which they swing. 

A heated copper ball was placed al)ove a ring gas-burner possessing a great 
number of small apertures, the burner being connected by a tube with vess(ds 
ctmtaining the various gases to be examined, liy a gentle ])ressure tlu) gases 
were forced through the orifices of the burner against tlie copper ball, where 
each of them, b(;ing heated, rose in an ascending column. A therjiio-electric 
jnle, entirely screened olf from the hot ball, was exposed to the radiation of the 
warm gas, and the deflection of a magnetic needle connected with the pile 
dechired the energy of th(^ radiation. 

Bv this mode <if experiment it was prov(;d that the self-same mtdecular arrang(>i- 
ment which renders a gas a powerful absorber renders it in the same degree a 
powerful radiator — that the atom or molecide which is (■onq)etent to intercept the 
calorific waves is, in the same degree, conqtetent to generate them. Thus, while 
the atoms of elementary gjuses proved th(;mselves unable to emit any sensible 
amount (jf radiant heat, the molecules of compound gases were shown to be capa- 
ble oi' j)owerfully disturbing the surrounding ether. 13y special modes of experi- 
ment the same was ])roved to hold goo<l for the vajiors of volatile li(piids, tlie 
r.'idiative pow<H' of every vapor being found proportional to its absorptive power. 
These experiments were based uj)(mi the fact that atoms, such, for exanqile, as 
those of air, which glide through the ether without sensible resistance, cannot 
thus glide among the molecules of another gas. When mixed with such mole- 
cules, the heated atoms comnnniicate their UKition to the m<decules by direct col- 



308 RADIATION. 

lision, and if these be of a complex clieraical cliaracter tliey instantly clistnrb tlie 
etliev wliicli sniToancls tlicm and thus lose tlieir heat. Hence the motion pos- 
sessed in the first instance by the atoms, and which the atoms are incompetent to 
discharge directly npon the ether, may, by the intervention of more complex 
molecules, be thus discharged. Suppose, then, a small cpumtity of any vapor to 
be introduced into an exhausted tube, and air to be subsequently allowed to rush 
in and fill the tube. By its impact against the sides of the tube the air is heated ; 
the motion of heat is instantly imparted, b}' collision, to the molecules of the 
vapor, and they in their turn impart it to the ether, or, in other words, reduce it 
to the radiant form. By this process, which has been called dynamic radiation, 
the radiative power of both vapors and gases has been determined, and the reci- 
procity of their radiation and absorption proved.* In the excellent researches 
of Leslie, De la Provosta3'e, and Desains, and Mr. ]5alfonr Stewart, the reci- 
procity of radiation and absorption in the case of solid bodies has been variously 
illustrated; while the labors, theoretical and experimental, of Kirchoff have given 
this subject a wonderful expansion, and enriched it by applications of the highest 
kind. To their resvdts are now to bo added the foregoing, whereby a vast class 
of bodies hitherto thought inaccessible to experiment are proved to exhibit the 
duality of radiation and absorption, the influence on both of chemical combina- 
tion being exhibited in the most decisive and extraordinary way. 

XV. — INFLUENCE OF VIBEATING PEFvIOD AND MOLECULAE FORM. — PHYSICAL 
ANALYSIS OF THE HUMAN BREATH. 

In the foregoing experiments with gases and vapors we have employed through- 
out invisible rays. Some of these bodies are so impervious that in lengths of a 
few feet only they intercept every ray as effectually as a layer of pitch would do. 
The siibstances, however, which show themselves thus opaque to radiant heat 
are perfectly transparent to light. Now the rays of light differ from those of 
invisible heat only in point of period, the former failing to aflect the retina 
because their periods of recurrence are too slow. Hence, in some wa}^ or other, 
the transparency of our gases and vapors depends ujion the periods of the waves 
which impinge upon them. What is the nature of this dependence"? The 
admiral)le researches of Kirchoff help us to an answer. The atoms and mole- 
cules of every gas have certain dellnito rates of oscillation, and those waves of 
eiher are most copiously absorbed whose periods of recurrence synchronize Avitli 
the periods of the molecules among which they pass. Thus, when we find the 
invisible rays absorbed and the visible ones transmitted by a layer of gas, we 
conclude that the oscillating periods of the gaseous molecules coincide witli those 
of the invisible, and not with those of the visible spectrum. 

It requires some disciidine of the imagination to form a clear picture of this 
process. Such a picture is, however, possible. Whi^i the waves of ether impinge 
upon molecules whose periods of vibration coincide with the recurrence of the 
undulations, the timed strokes of the waves cause the motion of the molecules 
to accumulate, as a heavy pendulum is set in motion by well-timed puffs of 
breath. Tiiousands of millions of shocks are received every second from the 
calorific waves, and it is not difficult to see that every wave, arriving just in time 
to repeat the action of its predecessor, the molecides must finally be caused to 
swing through wider spaces than if the arrivals were not so timed. In fact, it 
is not difficult to see that an assemblage of molecules, operated upon by contend- 
ing waves, might remain practically quiescent, and this is actually the case when 
the waves of the visible spectrum pass through a transparent gas or vapor. 
I.'iiere is here no sensible transference of motion from the ether to the molecules ; 
in other words, there is no sensible absorption. 

* When heated air imparts its motion to another gas or vapor, the transference of heat is 
accompanied by a change ot" vibrating period. The dynamic radiation of vapors is rendered 
possible by the transmutation of vibrations. 



RADIATION. 300 

One striking example of the influence of period may 1)C here recorded. Car- 
bonic acid gas is one of tlie lecblest of absorbers of the radiant heat emitted 1)y 
solid sources. It is, for example, extremely transparent to the rays emitted by 
the heated copper plate already referred to. There are, however, certain rays, 
comparatively few in number, emitted by the copper, to which the carbonic acid 
is impervious; and could we obtain a source of heat emitting such rays only, we 
shouhl lind carbonic acid more opaque than any other gas to the radiation from 
that source. Such a source is actually found in the Bamo of carbonic oxide, 
wliere hot carbonic acid constitutes the main radiating body. Of the rays emitted 
l)y our heated plate of copper, oleliant gas absorbs ten times the quantity absorlicd 
by carbonic acid ; of the rays emitted by a carbonic oxi(U3 flame, carlxjuic; acid 
ai)Sorbs twice as much as olefiant gas. This wonderful change in the power of 
tlie f()rmer as an alisorber is simply due to the fact that the periods of the hot 
and cold carbonic acid are identical, and the waves from t\w fhune freely trans- 
fer their motion to the molecules which synchronize with them. Thus it is that 
the tenth of an atmosphere of carbonic acid, enclosed in a tube four feet long, 
absorbs 60 per cent, of the radiation from a carbonic oxide fhinie, while one- 
thirtieth of an atmosphere absorbs 48 per cent, of the heat h\nn the same origin. 

In fact the presence of the minutest quantity of carbonic acid may be detected 
by its action on the rays from the carbonic oxide flame. Oarrying, for example, 
the dried human breath into a tube four feet long, the absorption there effected 
by the carbonic acid of the breath amounts to 50 per cent, of the entire radia- 
tion. Radiant heat may indeed be employed as a means of determining practi- 
cally the amount of carbonic acid expired from the lungs. My assistant, Mr. 
Barrett, has, at my request, made this determination. The absorption produced 
by the breath, freed from its moisture, but retaining its carbonic acid, was first 
determined. Carbonic acid, artificially prepared, was then rbixed with dry air 
in such proportions that the action of the mixture upon the rays of heat was the 
same as that of the dried breath. The percentage of the f(jrmej- being hnowc, 
iunnediately gave that of the latter. The same breath, analyzed chemically by 
Dr. Frankland, and physically by Mr. Banx'tt, gave the following results : 

Percentage of carbonic acid in the liuman breath. 

Chemical analysis. Physical analysis. 

4.0(5 4.5() 

b.S.i 5.^2 

It is thus proved that in the (juantity of ethereal motion which it is competent 
to take np, we have a practical measiue of the carbonic acid of the breath, and 
hence of the combustion going on in the human lungs. 

Still this question of period, though of the utmost importance, is not comi)e- 
tent to account for the whole of the (jbserved facts. Tlie ether, as far as we 
knt)W, accepts vibrations of all periods with the same readiness. To it the oscil- 
lations of an atom of oxygen are just as acceptable as those; of a molecule of ole- 
fiant gas; that the vibrating oxygen then stands so far below the oleliant gas 
in radiant power must be referred not to period, but to some other pe(;uliarily of 
the respective molecules. The atomic grouj) which constitutes the molecule of 
oleliant gas produces many thousand times the disturbance caused l)y the oxy- 
ijeu because the group is able to lay a vastly more powerful hold n\nm the ether 
than the single atoms can. The cavities and indentations of a m<decule com- 
posed of spheriwil atoms may be one cause of this augmented hold. Audther, 
and i)Ossibly very potent one, may Ix;, that the ether itself, condensed and entaii- 
gle(l among the constituent atoms of a comjjound, virtually increases tlie magni- 
tude of the group, and hence augments the disturbance. Whatever may be the 
fate of these attempts to visualize the physics of the process, it will still n-maiu 
true, that to account for the phenomena of radiation and absorption we must 



310 EADIATION. 

take into consideration tlie sliape, size, and complexity of tlio molcculcii by wliicli 
the ether is disturbed. 

XVI. — SUMMARY AND CONCLUSION. 

Let US now cast a momentary g-lance over the ground that we have left behind. 
Tlie general nature of light and heat was first brieHy described : the compoiuuling 
of matter from elementary atoms and the iiifltience of the act of combination on 
radiation and absorption were considered and experimentally ilkistrated. Tlu-oiigh 
the transparent elementary gases radiant heat was found to pass as through a 
vacuum, wliile many of the compound gases presented almost impassable obsta- 
cles to the calorific waves. This deportment of the simple gases directed our 
attention to other elementary bodies, the examination of which led to the dis- 
covery that the element iodine, dissolved in bisulphide of carbon, possesses the 
})ower of detaching, with extraordinary sharpness, the light of the spectrum from its 
lieat, intercepting all luminous rays up to the extreme red, and permitting the 
calorific rays beyond the red to pass freely through it. This substance was then 
employed to filter the beams of the electric light, and to form foci of invisible 
rays so intense as to produce almost all the cilects obtainable in an ordinary tire. 
Combustible bodies were Imrnt and refractory ones were raised to a white heat by 
the concentrated invisible rays. Thus, by exalting their i-efrangil)ility, the 
invisible rays of the electric light were rendered visible, and all the colors ot 
the solar spectrum were extracted from utter darkness. The extreme richness 
of the electric light in invisible rays of low refrangibility was demonstrated, one- 
tenth only of its radiation consisting of luminous rays. The deadness of the 
optic nerve to those invisible rays was proved, and experiments were then added 
to show that the bright and the dark rays of a body raised gradually to intense 
incandescence are strengthened together ; that to reach intense white heat intense 
dark heat must be generated. A sun could not be formed or a meteorite ren- 
dered luminous on any other conditions. The light-giving rays constitute only 
a small fraction of the total radiation, their unspeakable importance to us being 
due to the fact that their periods are attuned to the special requirements of the 
eye. 

Among the vapors of volatile liquids vast differences were also found to exist 
as regards their power of absorption. We followed, moreover, various niolecules 
from a state of li(pu'd to a state of gas, and found, in both states of aggregation, 
the power of the individual molecules equally asserted. The position of a vapor 
as an absorber of radiant heat was proved to be detennined by that of the liquid 
from which it is derived. Reversing our conceptions, and regarding the mole- 
cules of gases and vapors not as the recipients, but as the originators of wave 
motion — not as absorbers, but as radial(jrs — it was proved that the poweis of 
absorption and radiation went hand in hand, the self-same chemical act which 
rendered a body competent to intercept the waves of ether rendering it compe- 
tent in the same degree to generate them. Perfumes were next subjected to 
examination, and, notwithstanding their extraordinary tenuit\% were found vastly 
superior, in point of absorptive power, to the body of the air in which they were 
diffused. We were led thus slowly up to the exannnation of the most widely 
diffused and most important of all vapors — the aqueous vapor of our atmos- 
})here — and wo find in it a potent absorber of the purely calorific rays. The 
})ower of this substance to influence climate, and its general influence on the 
temperature of the earth, were then briefly dwelt upon. A cobweb spread above 
a blossom is sufiicient to protect it from nightly chill ; and thus the aqueous vapor 
of our air, attenuated as it is, checks the drain of terrestrial heat and saves the 
surface of our planet from the refrigeration which would a,ssuredly accrue were 
no such substance interposed between it and the voids of space. We considered 
the influence of vibrating period and molecular form on absorption and radiation, 



EADIATIOX. 311 

and finally deduced from its action upon radiant heat the exact amount of car- 
bonic acid expired by tlie human lunijfrf. 

Thus, in brief outline, have I placed before you scmie of the results of recent 
inquiries in the domain of radiation, and my aim throughout has been to raise 
in your minds distinct pliysieal imac^es of the various processes involved in our 
researches. It is thon.',''lit V)y some tliat natural science hasadeadenini^ iulluenc^e 
on the imaj^ination, and a doubt miglit fairly be raised as to tlie vahie of any 
study which would necessarily have this effect. But the experience of the last 
liour must, I think, have convinced you that the study of natural science goes 
hand in hand with the culture of the imasfination. Throughout the greater part 
of this discourse we have been sustained by this faculty ; we have been picttning 
atoms and molecules and vibrations and waves which eye has never seen nor ear 
heard, and which can only be discerned by the exercise of imagination. This, 
in fact, is the faculty which enables us to transcend the boundaries of sense, and 
connect the phenomena of our visible world with those of an invisible one. 
Withfiut imagination we never could have risen to the conceptions which have 
ocenpied ns liere to-day; and in proportion to yom* power, of exercising this 
faculty aright, and of associating delinite mental images with t\w. terms employed, 
will be the pleasure and the prcjfit which you will derive from this lecture. The 
outward facts of nature are insufficient to satisfy the mind. We cannot be con- 
tent with knowing that the light and heat of the sun illuminate and warm the 
•world. We are led irresistibly to enquire what is light and what is heat; and 
this question leads ns at once out of the region of sense into that of imagination. 

TluLs pondering, and asking, and striving to supplement that which is felt and 
seen, but v.hich is incomplete, by something unfelt and unseen which is necessary 
to its completeness, men of genius have in part discerned, not only the nature of 
li»ht and heat, but also, through them, the general relationship of natural phe- 
nomena. The power of natm-e is the power of motion, of which all its phenomena 
are but special forms. It manifests itself in tangible and in intangible matter, 
b.cing incessantly transferred from the one to the other, and incessantly trans- 
formed l)y the change. It is as real in the waves of the ether as in the waves 
of the sea, the latter being, in fact, nothing more than the heaped-uj) motion 
of the former, for it is the calorific waves emitted by the sun which heat our 
air, produce our winds, and hence agitate our ocean ; and whether they break in 
foam upon the shore, or rub silently against the ocean's bed, or subside by the 
mutual friction of their own parts, the sea-waves finally resolve themselves into 
waves of ether, and thus regenerate the motion from which their tem])orary exist- 
once was derived. This connection is typical. Nature is not an aggregate of 
indepen<lent parts, but an organic whole. If you open a piano and sing into it 
a certain string will res})ond. Change the pitch of your voice; the first string 
ceases to vibrate, but another replies. Change again the pitch ; the first two 
strings are silent, while another resounds. Now, in altering the pitch you sim- 
ply change the form of the motion communicated by your vocal chords to tho 
air, one string responding to one form and another to another. And thus is sen- 
tient man sung unto by natm-e, while the optic, the auditory, and other nerves of 
the human body are so many strings dill'erently tuned and responsive to diHerent 
forms of the universal ])ower. 



SYNTHETIC EXPEMMENTS BELATIVK TO METEORITES-APPROXIMATIONS TO 
WHICH THESE EXPERIMENTS LEAD.* 



BY M. DAUBUEE, MEMBER OF THE INSTITUTE, INSPECTOR GENERAL OF MINES. 



\_Translated for the Smithsonian Institution.'] 



Tlie study of raotoorites touches on several fandaraental questions of the 
physical history of the universe. Aside from the importance which these bodies 
pi'esent in a purel}' astronomical point of view, they are furthermore of interest 
to geoloijy from their constitution itself, and this under a two-fold aspect. On 
the one hand, they are the only specimens of extra-terrestrial or cosraical bodies 
with which it is possible for us to have actual contact; or which can aflFord 
us any ideas respecting the constitution of the bodies scattered through the 
celestial spaces. On the otlier hand, the more thorough our study of them the 
better shall wo recognize the bearing which they may have on sundry branches 
of knowledge, and particularly the history of our globe, as will be seen further 
on. Thus it is that meteorites c(^nstitutc an essential as well as new chapter in 
geology ; and notwithstanding the little attention hitherto accorded to their study 
by geologists, it cannot but be considered, on the grounds just stated, as meriting 
a place in the pages of the Atmalcs dcs Mines. 

In a recently published report on the progress of a part of geology, which 
may be called experimental geologi/,i we had occasion to explain how far experi- 
ment had been made instrumental in solving the questions which relate to the 
origin of meteorites and the mode of their formation ; this chapter it has been 
thought proper to reproduce here, Avith some developments, a portion of which 
had found a place in previous publications. The title sufficiently indicates the 
pi'opriety of reducing the historical and descriptive part to a very succinct 
exposition. 



CHAPTER I. 



EXTRA-TEKRESTRIAL ORIGIIV OF METEORITES. — PHENOMENA WHICH ACCOM- 
PANY THEIR FALL. 

It is a long time since any doubt could be entertained that among the sul)- 
stances which fall from the atmosphere to the surface of the globe, there are 
some whose origin is incontestably foreign to the planet which we inhabit. 
Their descent makes itself known by a considerable production of light and 
sound which accompanies it, by the almost horizontal trajectory which they 
describe, and by the excessive velocity of the bolides which embody the sub- 
stances in question. 

Several recent falls, which have been studied with care, have enabled tis 
to determine with more precision the circumstances which attend the arrival 

* AnnaUs dcs Mines, Sfc , Faris, 18G8. 

+ liappvrt sur les p?ogrcs (it la geologic expdrimcntale. Imprimerie imp6riale, 1607. 



EXrERIMEXTS RELATIVE TO METEORITES. 313 

of these masses on the earth. That these circunistunces are constantly and 
idc'Utically reproduced, is extremely remarkable. The fall of meteorites is 
always accompanied by an incandescence suiliciently vivid to give to nii^ht an 
api)earance of day, and to be perfectly ])erceptible even at noon-day. In con- 
setpience of this vivacity of their light, the arrival of ineteorites in our atmo- 
sphere may be seen at very great distances ; the fall at Orgueil (Tarn-et-daronne.) 
of the 14tli i\lay 1SG4, was observed as far otf as Gisors (Eure,) a distance of 
more than 500 kilometers,* (310i miles.) 

The light in question is, moreover, of very transient duration. It is thought to 
be produced at the moment when the asteroid enters our atmosphere, and there- 
fore at a great height, which, in the case of Orgueil, for exajnjjle, has been 
computed at 65 kilometers, (40 miles.) It is owing to this incandescence that the 
trajectory of meteorites, -which is in general hut little inclined to the horizon, is 
suscei)tibleof being observed. Atrajectory of this nature was particularly verified 
for the bolide of (Jrgueil just cited: proceeding from the west towards the east, 
this bolide was followed from Santander and other points of the coast of Spain 
to the place of its fall. Tiie incandescence allows, moreover, of an appreciation 
of the velocity of the bolides, a velocity which has nothing analogous on the 
earth, and which can only be compared to that of the planets revolving in their 
orbits. This single circumstance would suthce to prove the cosmic origin of 
meteorites. The meteorite of Orgueil appeared to traverse about 20 kilometers 
(12:} miles) i)er second ; while in other cases velocities have been observed which 
could not be estimated at less than 30 kilometers, (18.V miles.) 

The appearance of the bolide is constantly accompanied by a trail of vapors, 
which arc themselves not destitute of a certain etl'ulgence. No instance of the 
fall of a meteorite has occurred without being preceded by an explosion and 
sometimes by several explosions. The noise of the explosion has been compared 
either to that of thunder or to that of cannon, according to the distance of the 
observers. It makes itself heard over a vast extent of country ; sometimes at a 
distance of more than 100 kilometers in circuit, as in the fall at Oi'geuil. If we 
rcllect that it is produced in regions where the air, highly rarefied, lends itself 
very imi)erfectly to the ])ropagation of sound, we shall readily be convinced that 
its intensity must be such as to surpass all else that is known to ns. After the 
explosion a whizzing sound is heard, owing to the rapid passage of detached 
pieces in the air, which the Chinese compare to the noise made In" the wings of 
■wild giX'i^c, or to that of a cloth which is torn. It should be added that these 
phenomena have been observed not only in wid(^ly distant regions of the globe, 
but at all seasons, at all hours, aiul often when the sky is serene and cloudless and 
the air calm. Tempests, water-sj)outs, therefore, have no agency here. 

To obviate an objection which naturally presents itself to the mind, in relation 
to the velocity of these bodies, attention must be drawn to an essential distinction. 
The enormous velocity proper to the luminous body or bolide whi(di is seen 
cleaving the atmosphere contrasts with that, incomparably more feeble, which 
the fragments possess at the moment of their arrival on the earth. The bolide 
moves like a body launched with a great initial velocity; on the contrary the 
fragments which reach us in the sequel of the explosion ajjpear, in general, to 
possess only a velocity comi)arable to that which would correspond to their 
descent, mtjderated, besides, by the resistance of the air. It is to be added that, 
as lh(^ bolides move in all directions, their relative velocit}^ all else being e(puil, 
must necessarily vary according to the coiu'se of the trajectory with regard to 
th(^ direction of the earth's rotaticm and motion in its orbit. 

The stones of any one fall are more or less numerous, and are always burning 
Lot on the surface at the moment of their arrival, without, however, having pre- 
served their incandescence. At Orgueil stones fell upon GO points, comprised 

* A kilometre is C2 huiulredlhs of a mile. 



314 EXPERIMENTS RELATIVE TO METEORITES. 

«, 
within an oval periplieiy, of wliicli the fijrcater axis was 20 kilometers in lenf^th. 
The fall at Stannern, in Jloravia, yielded several hundreds of specimens, ami 
that of Aiglo about 3,000 ; here, as at Orgueil, the space covered by the stones 
was oval, and was 12 kilometers in length. A recent fall observed at Knyahinia, 
in Iliiiigary, was scarcely less nTmieroiis than that of Aigle. Frequently stones 
of a certain volume penetrate deep into the soil ; for example, one of tliose col- 
lected at Aumalo had buried itself several decimeters in a blocli of compact and 
resistant limestone. Hence a great number of meteorites may remain buried 
and undiscoverablo. 

The phcmomenaof light and sound with which the fall of meteorites is attended 
being of such im})osing magnitude, it is not without surprise that we observe 
the absence of any voluminous mass among the stones which have fallen. The 
largest specimen collected at Orgueil weighed two kilograms ; none of those of 
Aigle exceeded nine. The weight of 50 kilograms* is not often surpassed ; it is 
only exceptionally that some stones of from 200 to 300 kilograms can be cited. 
We may add that the weight of the fragments amounts sometimes to but a few 
grams. In the case of iron meteorites, the weight is often more consideral)le ; 
there have been found of these some weighing from 700 to 800 kilograms, like 
that of Charcas recently brought to the museum ; and a specimen has been found 
in Brazil having a weight estimated at 7,000 kilograms; but even this last 
re[)rescnts but a volume equal to one cubic meter. Meteorites, therefore, might 
be regarded as, in some sort, minute planetary debris ; as it were, cosmic dust. 

It is not impossible, however, that the fragments which reach the surface of 
our globe represent but a small part of the meteoric mass ; the latter may be 
supposed to pass from our atmosphere and continue its course, abandoning only 
some small jwrtions whose velocity has been weakened in consequence of the 
exj)losion. The fall at Orgueil would furnish an argument in favor of this 
hypothesis.! 

What is first remarked, on examining meteoric stones, is a black crust which 
covers the whole surface. | This crust is, in general, of a dull appearance ; but 
in some aluminous and particularly fusible meteorites it is of a glittering aspect, 
so as to resemble a varnish. Its thickness is less than one millimetre, and it is 
plainly owing to a superiicial fusion which the stone has undergone for a very 
short time, being the result of the incandescence produced on its entering the 
atmos])here. The crust may be artificially reproduced by submitting fragments 
of the meteorite to the flame of the blow-pipe. 

Lightning produces on the rocks of the earth a varnish which is not without 
aiialogy to that of meteorites ; it occasions in effect on certain rocks, particularly 
towards the sununit of mountains, the formation of little drops or of a glaze, to 
which De Saussure first called attention. It was on account of this resemblance 
that the savants, to whom were submitted the stones which fell at Luc6 ( Sarthe,) 
in 17GS, expressed the opinion that they were only terrestrial stones vitrified by 
lightning. The crust of meteorites presents little wrinkles, the direction of which 
indicates the course followed by each of the fragments. This course is still 
more plainly indicated by the arrangement of certain small prominences which 
the varnish lias produced by trickling to the after part of each stone. The form 
of the pieces detached from the meteorites is essentially fragmentary ; they are 
irregular polyhedrons, whose angdes and edges have been blunted by the simul- 
taneous actii)n of heat and friction. 

From all the facts above enumerated, it evidently results that the meteorites 
are representatives of extra-terrestrial or cosmic bodies. The first idea which 

* A kilogiitHi is 2.'Z pounds. 

\ Nouvelles Archives ilu Museum, t. iii, 186G. 

+ The nif tcorite wliicb i'ell. itth Juuo, 18G7, atTadjora, in Algeria, presents a very remarkable 
exwpiion tiirougb the absence of a crust. This difference corresponds to a less degree of 
fusibility than that of meteorites of tbe common type. (Coinptes liendus, t. Ixvi, p. 513, 
18<58 ) 



EXPERIMENTS RELATIVE TO METEORITES. ^15 

presented itself was to seek tlieir ()ri>^iii in the plunet nearest to us. It was thus, as 
will be remembered, that Laplace and JBerze I ius regarded them as bodies ejected 
from lunar volcanoes. But the hypothesis most generally adopted is that 
■which Chladni ventured to enunciate in 1794 ; according to this, the stones that 
descend from the skies are asteroids, which, entering within the sphere of the 
earth's attraction, are precipitated to its surface. These asteroids, moreover, need 
not pertain to our own planetary system ; there is nothing to prove that they 
do not proceed from other regions of space. 

Thv luunber of the known falls of meteorites is not so considerable as might 
be inferred from the great number of bolides -which have been observed and 
which daily come to light. Those which have been well authenticated, and the 
stones of which have been collected, do not, to our knowledge, amount to 1,000. 
In this sort of verification we necessarily do not take account of a number of 
falls, otherwise quite considerable, which have left us neither trace nor memento. 

But however incomplete the statistics of these falls, it is well to note how they 
arc distributed in point of time. From monthly statements it would a|>pearthat 
the two months which are remarkable lor showers of shooting stars have no pre- 
eminence as regards the number of the descents of bolides. In the horary 
distribution the variations are more marked; the falls seem to he more frequent 
by day than by night, as is shown by the facts observed by MM. Alex. 
Ilerschel, De Ilaidinger, and Quetelet. 

As regards the geographical apportionment of meteorites, they have been sig- 
nalized in all parts of the globe. Nevertheless, this apportionment is far from 
being uniform ; certain points seem distinguished for them. The abundance of 
ferruginous meteors in certain parts of America, north and south, in Mexico, the 
United Stales, and Chili, is well known. While some countries make no men- 
tion of falls of stones, or mention them very rarely, as S A'itzerland, other 
countries of the same sui"face, and which appear not better ])repared for the veri- 
lication of phenomena of this kind, have been often their theatre. Such are 
some of the regions of southern France, (Barbotan, Agen, Toulouse, Orgneil, 
I^aissac, Alais, Juvinas,) the northern part of Italy and British India, the hvtter 
having witnessed not less than 3-4 since the end of the last century. Daring 
each of the two years 1863 and 1864, as well as in 1866, three falls of mi'teor- 
ites have been cited in Europe. If we assume that this part of the world has 
not been particularly favored, and remember that it represents sixteen-thou- 
sandths of tlie total surface of the globe, we should realize for that whole surface 
the number of ISO meteorites. If, by reason of the facility with which the phe- 
nomenon may i)ass unperceived, this number be raised three-fold, which is doubt- 
less far from being an exaggeration, wo find a total of from GOO to 700 for the 
animal number of falls. 

It results from these falls of meteorites that, each year, the mass of the globe 
is augmented by a certain cpiaulity, and, according to a principle of mechanics, 
this augmentation would necessarily have an inlhience on the velocity of the 
rotation of our planet. It has been sought to ascribe to this cause the secular 
acceleration of the mean movement of the moon ; but that acceleration is very 
far irom being completely explained by tluj phenomenon in ipiestion.* Under 
this point of view, the very slight increase of mass jtroduced by the arrival of 
these extra-terrestrial bodies nuiy, it woidd seem, bo wholly neglected. 

When we reflect on the number of meteorites which the earth receives from 
year to year, wo are impelled to admit that numbers must have fallen likewise, 
in the vast periods (jf time during which the strata of the earth were formed, on 
land as well as in the basin of the ocean itself. Yet, often as the stratified for- 
mations have been explored, nothing analogous to the meteoric stones has ever 
been noticed. This renuirkable fact may be, perhajts, explained, in accordance 

* As M. Delauuuy has receatly demons truted, {Comples litndus, t. Ixi, p. WSS.) 



316 EXPERIMENTS RELATIVE TO METEORITES. 

witli tlie result of experiments on wliieli I entered some time ago, by the facility 
with which these stones disappear in consequence of their oxidation under the 
action of water and the disintegration which is its consequence. 



CHAPTER II. 

COK"STITUTI0N OF METEORITES. — § 1. TYPES TO BE DISTI^fGUISHED. 

If we examine meteorites as regards their constitution, it will be seen that 
some are formed of iron, evidently pure, while others consist of masses exclu- 
liively lapideous. Between these extreme types, specimens are found of a mixed 
flature, forming, as it were, a bond of union. Hence, it is convenient to adopt a 
single name; applicable to all the substances which reach ns from the skies, to 
the iron as well as stone, and even to the pulverulent or gaseous substances 
which may have the same origin. Such a name is that of meteorite; while the 
name of aerolite should be rejected as designating exclusively stony substances. 

We proceed to give a rapid review of the classification recentl}' adojjted for 
the collection of the museum. [Comptes liendus de VAcademie des Sciences, t. 
Ixv, p. 60, 1867.) 

METEORITES OF THE FIRST GROUP, OR HOLOSIDEROUS. 

Meteoric iron forms masses destitute of stony matter, and sometimes sufficiently 
pure to be susceptible of being immediately forged; it has even been employed 
in the fabrication of arms and utensils. No terrestrial mineral can, in this respect, 
be compared to it; native iron, it is true, has been found on the surface of the 
globe, but always under exceptional circumstances, when it appeared to proceed 
from reductions accidentally effected, either by combustible gases generated in 
volcanoes, or by the conflagration of coal-beds. This terrestrial iron, moreover, 
never presents the characters of meteoric iron. 

This latter is characterized at once by its chemical composition, and by its 
structure. It is always associated with different metals, among which nickel is 
ihe most constant. It frequently contains a sulphate of iron (troilite,) isolated 
mider a kidney-shai)ed form, sometimes cylindroidal and engaged in graphite. 
We find, besides, a phosphate of iron and of nickel, containing magnesium, the 
existence of which has been demonstrated by Berzelius, and to which the name 
of schreibcrsite has been applied. Terrestrial iron has never this com})osition. 

We will cite, as an example, the iron meteorite of Caille {Alpes Maritimes), 
the first analysis of which we owe to the Duke de Luynes, {Anncdes des Mines, 
4th series, t. v, p. 161,. 1844). He found it to be exclusively formed of iron and 
nickel, Avith imponderable traces of manganese and copper. The proportion of 
nickel rises, according to this analysis, to 17.37 per 100. The results at which 
M. Ilivot has sul)seqiventlv arrived in regard to other specimens of the same mass 
are sensibly different, this chemist having detected neither manganese nor coppei', 
but having found cobalt and chrome. Such divergencies teach us how much the 
composition of these masses may vary, even in pieces with an identical aspect.* 

* Annates des Mines, 5th serie.s, t. vi, p. 554, i854. The following are the numbers he 
obtained : 

Iron 9-2.7 

Nickel 1 ,').(; 

Chrome, cobalt, traces of silicium O.S) 

Total 9M.2 

The author thinks that the silicium is contained in the mass in the state of a siliciuret. 



EXPERIMENTS RELATIVE TO METEORITES. 317 

Tlie structure of lt'n'uj;-inous meteorites is among tlie most remarkuhle. In 
order to observe it, after haviiig ])olislied a surface <»f the bolide, we submit it to 
the action of an acid ; we thus bring to view tlie figures called WidmumUlUen, 
from the name of the savant who first mentioned them. In this way we ascer- 
tiiin that the body in question is at once crystalline and heterogeneous. An 
miassailable matter, in efi'ect, soon apjjears in relief and transibnus the surfticc, 
originally ])laiie, into an actual stereittype plate, suitable for producing impres- 
sions. The substance which thus appears in relief is simi»ly the multiple phos- 
phuret of 13erzelius. This phosphuiet ])resents itself ordiuarily in ihiii laminio, 
the intervals of which remind us, by their iineness and their parallelism, of a 
series of strokes of the l)uiin. The different lamiiue, which thus traverse the 
meteoric iron, are generally directed parallel to the faces of the regular octahe- 
dron. This fact, easily to be verified in the iron meteorite discovered at Caille, 
is the more interesting as the terrestrial iron, which is ])roduced in crystalline 
masses, presents a cubic arrangement. If we follow the direction foricniafioiij 
of the octahedrons, it will be recognized that, in many masses of iron, they pre- 
sent a parallelism, whence it results that they constitute in their enscmhle a 
single crystal. The dimension, thus considerable, of these crystals contrasts with 
the structure observed in artificial iron, even when its crystalline state is as com- 
plete as possible; for even then the laminae of cleavage occur in all directions, 
as is seen in a mnltij)licity of minerals and terrestrial rocks, such as lamellar lime- 
stone. Other procedures also have been employed for studying the structure of 
meteorites. {Cvmufcs licndiis de V Acadcmie des Sciences, t. Ixiv, p. 6&o, 1307; 
t. Ixv, 11. 148, 1867.) 

The falls of iron meteorites are incomparably more rare, at least at the present 
epoch, than the falls of those of stone. There have been oljsen'ed in Europe 
])nt two which were quite certain in more than a century : one in 1751, at liranau, 
in Bohemia; the other at Agram, in Croatia, in 181/. Nevertheless, there have 
been collected in different regit)ns of the globe, particularly in Europe, in Siberia. 
the United States, Mexico, Brazil, and in Africa, metallic masses, to which theii 
composition justifies ns in assigning an extra-terrestrial origin with as much cer- 
tainty as if they had been seen to fall. 1 hree of tiiese complete masses, which 
are in the gallery of the museum, afford an idea of the interesting peculiarities 
presented b}' the asj)ect and stiucture oi' meteoric iron. They dis))lay the frag- 
mentary forms affected l)y these masses— Jbrins which equally characteri-ze, as wiii 
be seen further on, the stony ma-sses, properly so calletl. 

II. — METEORJTKS OJF THE SECOND GHOXTP, OR STSSIDEROUS. 

Certain iron motconctvi, \ii place of being massive, include stony portions dis- 
seminated in rt htcinllic pdcffe w'nicli possesses continuiiy and forms* a sort of 
wctdllic spohfjc. "i'hey tlius const ituce a first term of the transition of meteorites 
of iron to those of stone. 

In t',ie ..le.st known representative of the meteorites of this second group, the 
stony iiiatier, M'nose grains are imbedded in the iron, consists of a silicate with 
a ba.je of maguesiuni and of ju'otoxide of iron, constituting j)recisely the terres- 
trial .•^itecies known l»y the name o[ peridot. This arrangement recalls in a strik- 
ing manner certain products of iron accidentally formed in the workshops, in 
vvhich the silicated scoria performs the part fulfilled by the peridot in the mete- 
orites with which we are occupied. The meteorites of this second grouj) aro 
particularly represented by a celebrated mass of iron, discovered byJ'allas, at 
Krasnojarsk, in Siberia, and by another altogether similar, which was found ia 
the desert of Atacama, in Chili. 

The stony matter of these meteorites, to nhicli we give the name of sj/ssider- 
* does not always consist exclusively of peridot. It sometimes comprises, 

• From the Greek cvi', {wilh,) to cxpiuss tlu; continuity of the iiuii, uud cfiS^/wf, {iron.) 



OltS 



318 EXPERIMENTS RELATIVE TO METEORITES. 

also, a silicate of a pyroxenic nature. This is the case in the meteorite of Toula, 
government of Perm, in Kussia, the lithoid part of wliich atTects a very remark- 
able breccia-form arrangement, as well as in that of llittersgriin, in Saxonv. In 
the two types of syssiderous meteorite which have jnst been cited, the stone is in 
o-rains disseminated and discontinuous. But it may happen that the stone therein 
is continuous as well and at the same time as the iron ; that is to say, that the 
mass ]-esults from the mutual entanglement of the two continuous systems, the 
one metallic, the other stony. Such, among others, is the meteorite of Ritters- 
gran. 

III. — METEORITES OF THE THIRD GROUP, OR SPORADOSIDEROUS. 

The greater part of the meteorites are characterized by a stony paste, in which 
the iron, instead of being continuous, as is the two former groups, is dissemi- 
nated in granules. The relation between the iron and the stone is then precisely 
the inverse of that which characterizes the type of Pallas and of Atacama. 
Each of these grains presents, moreover, the characters of composition and struc- 
ture of the iron meteorites. Like them, they include nickel, and the phosphuret 
and sulphuret of iron. The grains of iron, otherwise very variable in propor- 
tion, have also very different dimensions, from that of a hazel-nut, or larger, 
down to grains scarcely visible, or even microscopic. Their form is very irregu- 
lar and frequently tubercular. 

In this series, the extreme terms of which are so remote, but which are con- 
nected by a multitude of intermediate bodies, we may distinguish three sub- 
groups. 

FIRST SUB-GROUP, OR POLYSIDEROUS METEORITES. 

In the first place, this sub-group, being the richest in iron, is represented by 
masses which their miKcd cojuposition might lead ns to consider either as stone 
or as iron. We designate them by the name of polysiderous, (-oAu?, much); the 
metal and the silicates may exist therein in apparently equal volumes. Among 
the meteorites pertaining to this sub-group we may particidarize that which was 
foimd in Sierra de Chaco, Chili. The grains of iron in this meteorite, which are 
very voluminous and of a tubercular form, yield with acids the remarkable fig- 
ures which we have descrijbed. In this experiment it will be observed that each 
grain is enveloped with a metallic pellicle more or less thin, the structure of which 
is much more confused than that of the mass. It would seem that at the per- 
iphery the crystallization had been embarrassed or troubled. The stony gangue, 
in W'hich the metallic grains are imltedded, is essentially formed of silicates. If 
studied more closely, it will be found to result, in general, from the mixture, in 
variable proportions, of a basic silicate of magnesium, peridot, with a more acid 
silicate, known by the name oi pyroxene. 

SECOND SUB-GROUP, OR OLIGOSIDEROUS METEORITES, (COMMON TYPE.) 

The meteorites incomparably most frequent enter into the sub-group at which 
we now arrive. In ten falls, nine at least pertain to it ; hence it may Tte desig- 
nated as the common type. We give to the meteorites which it comprises thf« 
name of oligosidcrous, {nhyoc^ little.) 

These meteorites are easily distinguished by their stony aspect from those of 
the preceding sub-group, and of coarse more readily still from those of the two 
first groups. The fracture, ordinarily of an ashy gray and rough to the touch, 
recalls strikingly that of certain finely-grained trachytes. The mass is entirely 
crystalline, as the microscopic examination of a lamina sufficiently thin immedi- 
ately evinces. The paste appears, at first view, almost homogeneous; but a 
more attentive examination enables us to recognize that it results from a mixture 



EXPERIMENTS RELATIVE TO METEORITES. 319 

of (lifforent substances wliicli portaiii, in jroncral, to five species readily disfinguisk- 
able : tliree metallic, two stony and silicated. 

First, we find iiiclcdi/crous native iron in nialleaV)lo grains, often very small, 
tlie com^jiosition and structure of which are idenucal with those of the iron meteor- 
ites already described; the proportion of these i^rains is widely variable, beiui^ 
ordinarily "comprised betweeji S and 22 per 100 of the total wei<:ht. Next, sul- 
pliKirt of iron (troilite,) of which the de<,'ree of snlidmration seems inferior to 
that of magnetic pyrites or pyrrhotine. It approximates to the proto-sulphuret ; 
often occurs in isolated grains, which their color, a bronze yellow, renders easily 
discernible; often, also, it exists in the globules of iron, where it is imperceptible 
to the sight. It forms, in general, from 4 to 13 per 100 of the mass, and reaches 
even 20 per 100 in the meteorite which fell 24th December, 1858, at Murcia, in 
Sjjain. Chromatc iron, which forms the third metallic element, appears in the 
meteorites under consideration in small black grains, analogous to those observed 
in the serpentines. This mineral represents only from 0.2 to 2 per 100 of the 
total mass. It was Laugier who, in 1800, pointed out the frequent occurrence 
of chromatc iron in meteorites, [Anmdes (hi Mnscum, t. vi,) a fact whose im])ort- 
ance approaches that of the discovery of nickel, made by Howard four years 
earlier. Numerous analyses have subsequently confirmed the hal>itnal presence 
of the chrome. But the prevailing constituent of meteorites of the common type 
is a mixture of silicates, which are separated in effect by the action of acids. 
One of these silicates, assailable even by weak acids, has most fre(pu>ntly the 
(xtmposition of peridot ; the other, unassailable, is richer in silicic acid. Apart 
from the slight proportion of alumina, lime, and alkali which it includes, and 
which seems due to a mixture of other silicates, it often approximates to pyr- 
oxene.* 

The meteorites of the comtnon type very often present a globular texture — a 
substance, of a gray color a little deeper than the mass of the stone, I'ormed of 
globules of diflerent sizes. These globules are principally constituted by the 
bisilicate which we just now mentioned, and on which the acids exert no action. 
It thence results that if we dissolve the meteorites in question in an acid, there 
may remain at the bottom of the phial small grains not unlike gun-sh(jt. M. 
Gustave Rose, struck with this ren)arkal)le structure, has proposed to give to the 
meteorites of the common tyjie, in the majority of which this structure is clearly 
manifested, the name of chondrites, derived from the CJreek word yovoixi:;, signi- 
fying a hull or (jranukir concretion. 

Another remarkable character, frequently afforded by meteorites of this sub- 
group, is to present surfaces of friction analogous to those mirror-lik(! slides 
{miroirs dc glis^emcnt) which are oV»served in some ])arts of the veins of mines. 
Their grains of metallic iron have been drawn out along those surfaces of fric- 
tion, so as to suggest the influence of an energetic efl"ort. These rul)bed surfaces 
are abruptly interrupted by the external glaze, which shows that they have been 
produced previously, not only to the fall of the stones, but also to their division 
into fragments. 

In the ui(;teorites with which we are occupied, the external bL'Ujk frit or crust 
is always of a dull color. Most specimens of the stones of the common type 
j)resent, after remaining some time in damp air, numerous spots of rust, owing to 
the easy alteration of several of the substances contained in them, and especially 
of the sulphuret of iron. This circumstance, perhaps, enables us to com})rehend 
whv it is that these meteorites are not met with on the surface of the earth, like 



* Amoiip the numerous analyses which have (tviiicpfl this rciiiarkalile constitution, wo will 
cite that, which M. Dainour lias made of the stone which fell l»th D-cember, IH.'kS, neai Moiit- 
rejeau (Haute-Gaionue). {Cumptes litndus, t. xli.x, p. ;5I.) Nickelifei-ons iron, II. (JO; iiiug- 
iietic in rites, :{.74 ; chrome iron, l.»:^:i ; peridot, 44. H:5 ; horuhlcnde alhite, IIH.UO; total, lUO. 
M. DiilVenoy had before made the analysisof the stoue which fell rjth .Jiuie, 1841, at Chaleau- 
Keuanl (Loiret,) which pertains to the same type. {Cvniptes lifuJus, t. xii, p. 12'M.K) 



320 EXPERIMENTS RELATIVE TO METEORITES. 

those of iron; the disappearance of a part of their elements may have brought on 
a total disintegration. 

THIRD SUB-GROUP, OR CRTPTOSIDKROUS METEORITES. 

In the meteorites of which wo form the third suh-gronp, the iron is scanty, and 
Us grains are so fine as to have passed unperceived until M. Gustave Rose demon- 
strated their presence. The name of cryptosiderous (z/ju-roc, hidden,) expresses 
Uiis character. This sub-group constitutes, in fact, a transition from meteorites 
containing metallic iron to meteorites destitute of it ; it has thus been considered 
until the present time as pertaining to the 'after. 

But it is chiefly by the composition of the stony part that these meteorites 
differ from the preceding, that is to say, from the common or oligosiderous type. 
The principal section to be distinguished in the cryptosiderous series is that of 
the aluminous meteorites. It is characteriy.ed, in a mineralogical point of view, 
by a mixture of two distinct minerals, win di often occur, however, in a state of 
confused crystallization, namely, aiigitc pyroxene and anorthite feldspar. In 
addition, magnetic pyrites or pyrrhotine is also found, often forming hexagonal 
crystals perfectly distinct, as was long sin( e observed by M. Gustave Hose.* 
The aluminous meteorites referred to this i'.ection have recently received from 
that eminent mineralogist tlie name of cu\rites, from suxpcroc, distinct. The 
alumina and lime occur here in larger proportion tlian in meteorites of the com- 
mon t3'pe, while on the contrary the magnet.ium is in less quantity. t It will be 
seen that this composition presents a certain analogy with some well-ivuown 
lavas, such as those of Etna, formed of pyroxene associated with labradorite 
feldspar ; while it approximates still more closely to the composition of other 
lavas with anorthite, which have been met with at the Thjorsa, in Iceland. 

In the aluminous meteorites, the external coating is lustrous instead of being 
dull, as in meteorites of the connnon type ; it is at the same time remarkable fV)r 
the distinctness of the striae and indurated globules which it presents. This two- 
fold circumstance appears to correspond to a greater fusibility of the substance, 
due to the simultaneous presence of the aliujiina and lime. Besides the meteor- 
ite of Juvinas, may be cited, as pertaining to this type, those which fell 22d 
May, 1808, at Stannern, in ]\Ioravia, and 13th June, 1819, at Jonzac (Charente- 
inferieure). The presence in one of these meteorites, examined in 1825 by M. 
G. Rose, of minerals having the same crystalline forms with those of terrestrial 
mineral species, which have moreover the same composition, constitutes an im- 
portant fact in the study of these cosmic bodies ; for it serves to show the unity 
of the laws which govern the inorganic world throughout the immensity of space. 

A sec(nid section comprises meteorites principally formed of magnesian sili- 
cates. It is represented by the meteorite which fell 3d October, 1815, at Chas- 
siguy (Ilaute-Marne). The magnesian silicate is peridot, which we have men- 
tioned as existing in preceding groups, and which presents itself here, constitut- 

* See, respecting ihe crystallized minerals which occur iu meteoric stones, " Annates de 
Chirnie ct de Fhysiqiic," 1826. 

tAs an example, we will cite the meteorite which fell KJth June, 1821, at Juvinas, 
(Ardecljc, ) the analysis of which, made heretofore by Vauguelin and by Laugier, has been 
lately repeated by M. Kammelsberg. According to the latter, the composition is as follows : 

Pyroxene augite 62.65 

Feldspar anorthite 34.56 

Apatite 0.60 

Titauite 0.25 

Chrome iron 1.35 

Magnetic oxidulated iron 1.17 

Magnetic pyrites '. 025 

Total 100.83 



EXPERIMENTS RELATIVE TO METEORITES. 321 

m^ nearly the whole of the mass. It is identical with that which oconid on 
the earth, and contains disseminated grains of chrome iron.* On the stone of 
Chassigny, as on other meteorites, there is a crust resulting from a superticial 
fusion. 

IV. METEOKITES OF TIlK FOURTH GROUP* OR ASIDEROUS. 

The meteorites in which no iron disseminated in a metallic state can be recog- 
nized are rare, and the more attentively meteorites are ."tiidied with a view to 
the presence of metallic iron, the more is the number of the specimens of this 
last group reduced ; it is nearly restricted at present to Ihc carbonaceous meteor- 
ites. These ])resent in their composition peculiarities of such a kind that it 
woidd have been in)possible to believe in their origin, had not their fall been 
witnessed. A recent occasion has allowed these interesting bodies to be studied 
with minute attention. It is the presence of carbon which characterizes them, 
not free or in the state of graphite, as in certain ferruginous meteorites, but in 
adniitted combination with hydrogen and oxygen ; it is also the presence of 
combined water ; finally, it is the i)resence of soluble, and even deliquescent 
saline constituents. To complete these distinctive characters, it must be added 
that a double carbonate of magnesium and iron, of the species hreimcritc, has 
been met with in the meteorite of Orgueil. 

In certain respects carbonaceous meteorites ally themselves with those of 
which we have already spoken. Like the latter, they contain magnesian sili- 
cates, including sometimes oxides of nickel, cobalt, and chnmie. There is i'oiuid 
also oxide of magnetic iron, magnetic pyrites, innumerable microscopic crys- 
tals, having scarcely a diameter of 1.30 of a millimetre,t and linally chrome iron. 

The presence of carbon, in a state of hydro-oxygenated combination, and 
analogous to the results of vegetable decomposition, has led to an investigation 
whether the carbonaceous meteorites might not contain remains which had 
belotiged to living beings. But the most delicate researches have disclosed 
nothing of' this kind. However this may be, the presence of substances easily 
volatilized, or alterable under the action of heat, would prove that at the moment 
when the carbonaceous meteorites penetrated into the atmosphere they were cold. 
The incandescence which they have undergcjne has produced, by the fusion of 
their superticial portion, a thin crust, but the Aveak conductibility of the con- 
Btituent matter has preserved the internal parts from sensible alteration. 

The carbonaceous meteorites, of which we possess specimens, are referable to 
four descents, all quite recent. The lirst took place at Alais, (Gard,) in 1803 ; 
the second at the Caj)e of Gt>od Hope, in 1838; the third at Kaba, in Hungary, 
in 18.57; and the fourth at Orgueil (Tarn-et-Garonne,) in 18G4. We owe to 
Berzclius, Faraday, and JM. Woehhu-, the discovery of the principal facts relating 
to the constitution of the meteorites of this sub-group. More recently M. Clofiz 

* Tbb i'ollowiug is the result of the analysis which M. Damour has inado of this iuteresting 
meteorite : 

Silica ;?:^.30 

Magnesium :? 1 .7R 

Protoxide of iron ~<).7(J 

Protoxide of luangauese I'- 15 

Oxide of chioine l'~-"> 

Potassium t'.<'<j 

Chrome iron and pyroxene -i-^^ 

Total i>y."t) 



This composition is that of the variety of peridot, rich iu protoxide of iron, and kuown inider 
Xhc \M\\i\ii o'i litjaloaidcriU. (Cinnptrs Ji<7iilus, t. Iviii, IcUl.) 

t Especially iu the meteorites of Orgueil. Comptts Utiulus, t. Iviii, May 30, ldG4. 

21 S 



oZZ EXrERIMENTS RELATIVE TO METEORITES. 

has studied the carhonaccous meteorite of Orgueil, and chiefly the state of com- 
bination of the carbon, [Comptes RcnduSj t. Iviii, 1864). il. Pisani, on his part, 
has examined this hist meteorite, principally with reference to the stony matter. 

APPENDIX TO THE PRECEDING GROUPS. PULVERULENT METEORITES. 

The slcies furnish not only coherent masses, stony or metallic, but also pul- 
verulent matter. 'J'he existence of this meteoric dust has not attracted, so much 
as it should have done, the attention of savants. This circumstance may be 
referred to the extreme difficulty of distinguishing the dust -which is tndycosmi- 
cal, from that whoso origin is terrestrial, and which is, beyond comparison, most 
abundant. 

To the examples cited above, of the descent of terrestrial matter, we may add, 
as well-known, the pretended showers of sulphur resulting from the fall of pol- 
lenic dust, and certain silicious rains, which Ehrenberg has recognized as Ijcing 
formed by the carapace or shells of infusoria. But, apart from tliese terrestrial 
substances, we should distinguish those which are really cosmical. For example, 
in some meteoric falls, the stones have been accompanied by dust. Thus, 14th 
JIarch, 1813, at the same time that there fell at Cutro, in the Calabrias, a quan- 
tity of stones, an abundance of red powder was collected.* Again, 5th Novem- 
ber, 1814, it was remarked that the 19 stones picked up at Doab, in India, were 
enveloped, as it were, in a pulverulent matter. 

In certain cases, the fall of dust has been ol)served without the accompani- 
ment of stones, but always announced ])y those remarkable phenomena of light 
and sound which we have already descril)ed. The catalogue which Chladni 
published in 1842 makes known a number of examples, and among them the 
following. h\ 1819, at Jlontreal, (Canada,) a black rain was observed, accom- 
panied by an extraordinary obscuration of the sky, by detonations comparable 
to those of discharges of artillery, and by I he most brilliant glean)s of light. 
At first the burning of some forest in the vicinity, in coincidence with a violent 
storm, was supposed, but the collective phenomena, and an examination of the 
matter which fell, analogous perhaps to the meteorite of Orgueil, proved that the 
disturbance was due to the arrival in the atmosphere of substances foreign to 
our globe. At Loeban, in Saxony, there fell, 13th January', 1835, a powder 
formed of oxide of magnetic iron. This followed the explosion of a bolide, 
which moved, it is said, with extraordinary velocity, while the detached frag- 
ments appeared to blaze in traversing the atmosphere. 

It is perhaps to meteoric dust that we should ascribe the trails which follow 
the meteorites at the moment of their explosion ; perhaps, also, it is to the com- 
bustion of this dust that the incandescence of bolides is in part due. The car- 
bonaceous meteorite of Orgueil, so interesting in many points of view, has been 
highly instructive as regards the existence of meteoric dust. It is so friable that 
some pieces are reduced to powder by simple pressure between the fingers ; it 
is matter of surprise that they should liavo reached the surface of the earth 
entire. This fact may perhaps be explained bv remarking the two following 
circumstances: First, each fragment was enveloped, at the moment of its fall, 
in a vitrified crust, more solid than the rest of the mass. Besides, the ditlerent 
parts of the meteorite are cemented by alkaline salts ; water, by dissolviiig this 
cement, occasions the complete disintegration of the meteorite, which is reduced 
'^ ft dust of the utmost tenuity. t Had the sky, on the 14th IMay, 1SG4, instead 

* Bibliothcque Britnnnique, 1813 and J8)4. Admiial KruseDsteni was witness of a i'iict 
which should lio cited on this occcsion. Ho observed, in liis voyaj:;e around tho world, a 
bolide which left behind it a Inniinous trail, renTiirkable for it3 pertsistence ; it continued to 
sliine for an entire hour, without sensibly changing its place. 

t The powder in question traverses even the closest filters. 



EXPERIMENTS RELATIVE TO METEORITES. 



323 



of hcing perfectly clear, been rainy, or Bimply covered with clouds, tlirong'li wliich 
tLose stones would have had to pass, such is their constitution that only a viscous 
mud would have remained to be gathered, similar to that which, on some occa- 
sions, has been observed to fall.* 

The study of the meteorite of Orgneil shows, finally, that meteorite dust may 
he combustible, and contribute to incandescence V)v its oxidation. In view of 
these diSercnt facts, it cannot l)c questioned that great atteiition should 1)0 paid 
to the fall of atmospheric dust. It miglit be well, after the explosion of bolides, 
to seek in the air for this pulverulent matter, b}^ all the means which science now 
places at our disposal, and to examine it, especially, with a view to detecting the 
presence of nickel. 

■ GascouH mdeorifes, (mentioned by way of suggestion). Does the celestial 
space ever furnish gaseous matter? This we know not; but without speaking 
of shooting stars, it is not impossible that certain meteorites, or the bodies from 
which they are detached, are j)rovidcd with an atmosphere. Whether this be so 
or not, for the sake of completeness, and in order to call attention to the point, 
we include gaseous meteorites in otu' list. 

§ 2. CLASSIFICATION OF METEOHITES. 

After indicating the different types to which meteorites may be referred, it is 
proper to express their relations by means of a classification. That which we 
here })resent, though otherwise very sim{)le, has reriuired the invention of a cer- 
tain number of names, which, as indicated in th($ following talde, will be found 
convenient. It comprises only groups and sub-groups; but each of the latter 
embraces several different types which need not be specified in so compendious a 
review: 

Solid and Coherent Meteorites, 



SfDERITES.- 
Mfteoritea 
containing 
iron in a 
metallic 
State 



Not oontc'.n- 



oontc'.n- > 
g stony \ 
alter. . . . ) 



I. HOLOSIDEKOUS 



SUB-6R0UP. EXAMPLES. DENSITIES. 
„..Charcas 7.0 to 8.0 



Containing 
at the same 
time iron-; 
and stony 
matter 



f The iron pre- 
Kents ilHelf 
asacontin- ( 
uoUH maDH.J 



ASIDERITES. 
Mfteoriteg 
Dot con- 
t a i n i n g 
iron in a 
metal lie 
Btate 



l„., 



Syssiderous Rittersgrtin. 7.1 to 7.8 



The iron pre-] 



iron pre-"! 
Bents itstlf ( III. SpORADO-SID- 



in disueni 
at«(l grains. 



in-f- 
ns. J 



' Polysiderous. — ] 
Quant ityol' iron 
tousidmablo. . . ' 

OUgo$idcrous. — 
Quantity ot'iron 
Biuall 



Sierra de 
Chaco. 



G. 5 to 7. 



3. 1 to 3. 8 



Ortjptosiderous — 
Tliu iron 

perceptible tofjuvinas 
Bight J 



I Chaseigny.. 3. ; 



3. to 3. 8 



.IV. AsiDEROns... ^ Orgueil 1.9 to 3.6 



§ 3. COMPOSITION OF METEORITES COMPARED WITH TERRESTRIAL ROCKS. — 

SIMPLE BODIES. 

From some hundreds of analyses, which have been conducted by the most 

* Thus, in Lusace, 8tb March, 179ti, there was seen to full, after the explosion of a bolide, 
a mass which was viscous, bluish, imd probably carbonaceous. 



324 EXPERIMENTS RELATIVE TO METEORITES. 

eminent cliemists, it results tliat meteorites have presented no simple body for- 
eign to om- globe. The elements which have thus far been recognized in them 
with certainty are 22 in number, and in the following enumeration are arranged 
very nearly in an order corresponding to the progressive diminntion of their im- 
portance : Iron is absolutely constant, as well in a metallic state as in that of 
a sulphuret ; in the stony masses it also occurs as an oxide, entering into differ- 
ent combinations of the protoxide. Magnesium, is met with very generall}' in 
the state of a silicate ; it has been recognized also in the constitution of the phos- 
phiuets mentioned above. Silicium gives rise to the silicates which constitute 
the principal mass of most meteorites. Oxygen is always present in the stony 
part of these bodies. Is'ickel^ as has been seen, is the principal accom}>animent 
of the iron. Cobalt, without being in as great proportion, is almost as constant. 
The same is the case with chrome, which is found in the stones in the state of 
chromated mm. Manganese has been often mentioned. Titanium is much 
more rare. Tin and copper have been discovered by Berzelius. Alumina exists 
in a certain number of meteorites, in the state of multiple silicates; so likewise 
do piotassium, sodium, and calcium. Arsenic occurs in the peridot of the iron 
meteorite of Atacama. Phospjhoriis presents itself chiefly in the state of phos- 
phurets, and sometimes of phosphates. Nitrogen, discovered by- Berzelius in 
the carbonaceous meteorite of Alais, has been detected anew in the ferruginous 
meteorite of Lenarto by M. Boussingault. Sulphur very frequently forms sul- 
phurets. Traces of chlorine are distinguishable in certain iron meteorites by 
the chloruret of iron which it produces after a time, and which falls into deliques- 
cence. Carbon is found in iron meteorites, either as graphite or combined with 
the metal as a carburet. It exists also in the carbonaceous meteorites , in com- 
bination with oxygen and hydrogeu, and in one such meteorite it has l)een met 
with in the state of a carbonate. Hydrogen also forms a part of the carbon- 
aceous meteorites ; quite recently M. Graham has given notice of its existence 
in the iron of Lenarto, in which nitrogen had been already detected. 

COMBINATIONS COMMON TO METEORITES AND THE TEERESTRIAL GLOBE. 

In the number of the combinations which these different simple bodies affect in 
meteorites, there are several which are found in the mineralogical species of the 
earth. Such are peridot, pyroxene and the anorthite feldspar, chromated iron, 
magnetic pjyritcs^ and oxydulated iron ; the last is singularly rare. Crraphite, 
and probably water, may also be cited among minerals common to meteorites 
and the terrestrial globe. 

Jiloreover, certain meteorites present mineralogical species associated after the 
same manner as in certain terrestrial rocks. It is thus that the stone of Juvinas 
approximates extremely to certain lavas of Iceland; that the stone of Ohassigny 
offers all the characters of the peridot of the earth, with grains of chromated ii'on 
disseminated, exactly as in the peridotic rock called dunite, recently discovered 
in New Zealand; while the carbonaceous meteorites recall, in certain respects, 
some of our carbonaceous combustibles. 

MINERALS PECULIAR TO METEORITES. 

On the other hand, several mmeralogical species are peculiar to meteorites, 
especially nickeliferous native iron, tht' p]wsphuret of iran and of nicliel, {schreib- 
ersite,) and the sulphuret of iron [tro'Uite). 



EXPERIMENTS RELATIVE TO METEORITES. 325 



CHAPTER III. 

SYNTHESIS OF METEORITES. — § T. SYXTHRTIC EXPKRIMENTS RELATIVE TO 

METEORITES. 

"While the species common to meteorites and to the teirestrial globe disclose 
influences which have <ij)erate(l equally in these two oi'ders of deposits, the 
species proper to raeteoriies indicate other and peculiar influences, an attentive 
examination of which leads to useful indicati<»ns iii re<^ard to the mode of form- 
ation of these last bodies. Be it remarked, however, that we lay aside abso- 
lutely all consideration of the cause by which meteontes are brought into our 
atmosphere, in order to confine ourselves solely to the peculiarities of their 
strnc/turc and composition. 

It has been sometimes thought that meteorites became cr\'stallized in our 
atmosphere by the process of cooling undergone therein. Now, nothing of the 
kind exists. These planetary bodies reach us, it is true, in an incandescent 
state ; but this incandescence never attains the interior of the pieces, even when 
they are of very small dimensions. Hence it follows that the interior condition 
of the mass is, to all appearance, identically what it was in cosmic space. 

It has seemed to me that the moment was opportune for verifying by syn- 
thetic experiments the numerous ideas which analysis has furnished on the con- 
stitution of meteorites.* It might be hoped, in eftect, that experimental syn- 
thesis would not render less service in this field of study than in that of miner- 
als and terrestrial rocks. 

EERRUGIXOUS METEORITES. 

We have seen above what is remarkable in the structure of these bodies, and 
what is due at once to the crystallization of the whole mass and to a segregation of 
like material. In seeking fo reproduce that structure, I first melted the meteoric 
iron of Caille (Var) in a cement of alumina, avoiding the use of charcoal, which 
would have combined with it. The mass, after fusion, presented at its surface 
and in its fracture a distinct crystallization ; but it no longer offered the brilliant 
lines which were so clearly delineated in the natural state. Perhaps the result 
had been more satisfactory if the cooling could have been efTected in a very slow 
manner. It is [)roper to add, moreover, that the iron meteorites themselves do 
not always present the geometric regularity just indicated. There are those in 
which tlu? i)hosphuret is isolated under rounded forms, (piite irregular and often 
indistinct. 

Another series of experiments had for its object to associate soft iron with each 
of the principal substances which accompany it in the meteorites, particularly 
with nickel, silicium, sulphur, and ])liosphorus. By associating soft iron with 
nickel, with jirotosulphuret of iron, and with silicium, masses were obtained of 
a dendritic or extremely crystalline structure, but ollering no true segregation com- 
parable to that of the ferruginous meteorites. It is otherwise if we melt soft iron 
with the addition of phosphuret of iron in a pioportion which has been carried 
from 2 to 5 and 10 per 100. We then see isolated on the polished surface which 
has undergone the action of the acid a more brilliant and resistant substance 
which perfectly resembles that of the iron meteorites, excepting a less degree of 
regularity in the figure. A still better result has been obtained by introducing 
nick(d at the same time with the phosphuret of iron, and espeinally by operating 
on consideral)l(Mnasses, the weight of which reaches froui two to seven kilograms. 
In the midst of dendritic figures of a remarkable regularity, and which, accord- 

* "Couiptes rendus," t. Ixii, pp. '200, 3G0, GG'J. " Bullutiu de la socicto gfeologique de 
France," '4d series, t. xxiii, p. 2'Jl, 18GG. 



326 EXPERIMENTS RELATIVE TO METEORITES. 

.ing to an examination nuule by M. Des Cloizeaux, appear disposed in the forms 
of the regular rliomhoidal dodecahedron, we tlien perceive the brilliant matter, 
isolated, and, as it were, driven into the interstices, under a reticulated form. 

STOXES. FUSION. 

As meteoric stones always reach us covered with a black and vitreous crust, 
due to a superficial fusion effected in their transit through the atmosphere, it 
might be thought that by melting them in crucibles we shovdd obtain nothing- 
else but this same vitreous matter ; but experiment has taught that it is quite 
otherwise, and that these substances possess, on the contrary, a very decided 
aptitude for crystallization. Thus, by liquefying the meteorites of more thaa 
thirty different descents, I have always obtained masses eminently crystalline. 

If meteoriks of the common type he submitted to a temperature sutiicientlj 
high, the mass, after fusion, is composed of a precipitate of small metallic grains dis- 
seminated in a silicated gangue of lithoid appearance. This lithoid part itself 
is generallv divided into crystalline substances, very distinct in form. The one 
consists of rectangular octahedrons, much flattened, and having the form and 
arrangement which characterize peridot., especially that which is formed in scoriae. 
This same substance is presented under two other forms in the products of fusion.* 
The second substance habitually presents prisms with a rectangular section, often 
aligned parallel with one another, and having a librolamellar fracture which 
strongly resembles that oibronzitc. Their opacity does not ordinarily permit of its 
being decided whether they pertain to the right system of the rhoml)oidal prism 
or to the oblique system. Yet as they are, for the most part, devoid of iron, and 
contain scarcely more than magnesium, they must be considered as pertaining 
not to pyroxene, but to the species enstatite. Moreover, on the product of the 
fusi(ni of the meteorite which recently fell at Tadjera, in Algiers, numerous 
uncolored needles are to be observed which, examined with the microscope, shovy 
very distinct angles approaching to 87", like those which correspond to the cleav- 
ages of enstatite, {Comptes rendus, t. Ixvi, p. 517, 1868). The chemical assay 
of these two substances justifies the conclusion to which we are led by the orys- 
tallographic examination. 

We have seen that the analysis of most meteorites of the common type dis- 
closes the existence therein of at least two silicates ; the one alterable, the other 
unalterable by acids. In the experiments of which I have just given an account 
a parting takes place between these silicates which were originally in such inti- 
mate intermixture that they could not be distinguished. They separate by a 
sort of liquation, and much more distinctly than in the natural meteorite ; it is 
thus that, under diiibrent forms, the magnesian silicates, peridot (Mg. Si.) and 
enstatite, (Mg. Si'-.,) make their appearance. The relative proportion of peridot 
and of enstatite, in the products of the fusion, vary much with the meteorites ; it 
is generally the enstatite which predominates, and in a certain number, (Chan- 
tonnay, Ensisheira, Agen, Chateau-Renard, and Vorcille,) the peridot does not 
appeal- in distinct crystals. On the contrary, the peridot may show itself in pre- 
dominance, as in the meteorite of New-Ooncord. The reduction of the iron, 
Avhich was in the state of a silicate, does not appear to have had any other eflFect 
than to auo-ment the proportion of enstatite at the expense of that of peridot, 
without other change in the nature of the compounds. 

The situation of these two species respectively, within the mass obtained, 
deserves attention. In general, the peridot, when it exists, forms at the surface 

* Accordincr to tlio examination wliich M. Des Cloizeaux has made, one of these forms is 
of crystals with six faces, composed of the base P of the prism gz, and of the truncation gi ; 
the other form is composed of the base P and of two basils, (hiaenux,) of which one phiced 
on the obtuse angles of the primitive prism of 1 19^ 3U', pertains, by the angles, to the form 
fli, while the other is placed ou the acute angles. 



EXrERIMENTS RELATIVE TO METEORITES. 327 

a thin and crystallizorl ])ellicle, while the intorior is coinj)osod of lonQ- crystals 
of eiistatitc which traverse it : these two substances are thus i^f'rouped coiiforiiiahlv 
to their order of fusibility. Very frequently the needles of enstatite exteiul 
to the surface of tlie mass, with an arrangement which perfectly resembles 
that of the mica called palmate, contained in certain ])egmatites of the Pyrenees 
and the Limousin. This dendritic grouj)ing of the enstatite has a very decidcid 
tendency to aiTange itself under a constant angle. There is observable, also, 
in the two species of luagnesian silicate, a remarkable tendency to group ihem- 
selvcs regularly one on the other, as is seen in the staurotide and the disthene ; 
and certain crystals having the form of ])eridot serve, as it were, l)ut for the 
union of the numerous needles of enstatite which traverse them, thus recalling- 
the structure of certain pscudoraor])hs. 

These mixtures, easily discernible by the naked eye, pass into others which 
are indiscernible, and in which the substance, having a homogeneous a})pearance, 
like certain natural meteorites, betrays its compound nature only by a separation in 
the presence of acids. It should be remarked, further, that meteorites include, 
certain substances, such as the silicate of alumina, which form no essential part 
of the peridot nor of the enstatite, but which remain hid in the crystiils of these 
two mhieral species, doubtless by virtue of the affinity which M. Chevereul has 
tQvmvdcapiUan/. * * * l'hea/u/«//?o»s »/(?fco?v7ra, of which those of Juvinas, 
of .Jimzac, and of Stannern afford the best-known examples, give a })r()duct 
entirely ditl'erent from all the magnesian meteorites which we have been consider- 
ing : it is a vitreous mass, sometimes ribandcd by incipient devitrilication, but wilh- 
out crystals of jjcridot or of enstatite. 

In the ^'ourse of these investigations the presence of a body has been recog- 
nized which does not appear to have been observed until now in the magnesian 
meteorites; I speak of titanium, distinguishable by its characteristic color and 
its iinalterability on contact with acids, and which has been thus detected in the 
melted meteorites of Montrejeau and Aumale.* 

niTTATIOX OF METEOKITKS Or THE COMMON TYPE BY KEDUCTION^ OF 

SILICATES. 

The fusion of meteorites of the common type produces, as has been scon, two 
principal minerals, peridot and enstatite. Hence it was to the terrestrial rocks 
characterized by the presence of these two minerals that resort was had, in the 
first instance, for the experiments in contemplation. The first step was to fuse 
tliem in crucibles of earth without the intervention of a reducing agent. 

By simi)le fusion in such a crucible peridot was converted into a green trans- 
lucent mass covered with crystals of peridot and entirely crystalline in the interior, 
as appears by its acti(Mi on polarized light. Its structure is often lamellar, like 
that of the jjcridot of the scoriie.t The fused peridot contrasts, therefore, by its 
cousistence with the granular and but little coherent peridot usually contained 
in basaltic rock"s.| Lherzolite, formed of a mixtiu'e of peridot, enstatite, and 
pyroxene, melts still more readily than peridot, and gives masses which repro- 
duce the natural rock so as to be easily mistaken for it; with this difference, 
that, on the surface and in the interior, needles of enstatite may be observed, 
which wtTO not distinguishable before the fusion. Thus the needles, perfectly 

'^ This metiil. niiuuunced iu tliu pyroxniiic meteorite of Jiiviuas, by M. Rauimelsbtrg, lias 
appeareil, also, very clearly on the <;lobules of iron obttiitietl by tin- t'nsion of that nictuDrue. 

t Tlu! peiidot on wliieli mostot the cxpeiirneuts here cited were niiide comes from the basalt 
near Laiif^eac, (llaiUv-l^oire, ) wlieus it abounds. A jieridot of this locality, analyzed by 
lifitliii-r, yielded \i'< jjer JOU ot protoxide of iron. 

t The basalt appears not to have had, at least iu general, a temperature sufficiently hifjh to 
melt the lai;;;c fragments of peridot which wore i nbedded in it. Yet it may. perhaps, have 
been capable vi dissolvinj;;' ii part, and havo thus piven rise to the crystals, woU detiued but 
of small dimension, which are sometimes disieuiiuated llirough it. 



328 



EXPERIMENTS RELATIVE TO METEORITES. 



white, furnished by the Iherzolite of Piiules (in the Pyrenees) yield on analysis 
in lOOpcOrts:* 







Oxygen. 


Ratio. 




57.0 
42. (J ) 

•J8.4 


28 
15 


2 








1 







est 
the 



Certain basaltic peridots, mingled with pyroxene and en statite, offer the strong 
t resemblance to Iherzolite, and, under the action of fire, deport themselves ii 
e same manner. For instance, the n«edles ol)taiued by the fusion of the peri 



dot of Beyssac (Haute-Loire) give in 100 part 



in 

peri- 



Silex 

Magnesium 

Protoxide of iron 



56.4 

39.0 

3.0 



98.4 



Oxygen. 



28 
15 



Ratio. 



By the addition of a certain quantity of silex, the proportion of bisilicate or 
enstatite may bo augmented at will, and produce those mixtm-es which form the 
transition j'rom peridot to Iherzolite. The same bisilicate is generated along the 
■walls of the crucible by borrowing silex from them. I will remark here that by 
adding to peri(h)t 15 per 100 of silex, the quantity necessary for its conversion 
into enstatite, and then melting it in the midst of charcoal, we obtain a mass cov- 
ered on its surface with flattened rectangular octahedrons of the form which 
belongs to peridot, wdiile the interior consists of a iil)r(jus mass unalterable by acids, 
A\hich has the characters of enstatite. An identical fact takes place in the fusion 
of certain meteorites. 

The minerals, which had been first submitted, as above, to simple fusion, 
■were next subjected to the same action in the presence of a reductive influence. 
For this })urpose charcoal disposed as brasque in a crucible was first ado[>toil. 
The same results as before were thus reached, with this difference only, that tiie 
iron, wdiich was combined in the silicate, is reduced to the metallic state. It 
separates into precipi tate and granules or remains disseminated in the undecomposed 
silicate in microscopic grains separable l)y the magnetized bar ; at the same time, 
the portion of silicic acid corresjjonding to this ircm contributes to augment the 
]»roportion of the bisilicate. All the iron, however, is not reduced to the metal- 
lic state ; a part remains in combination in the silicate ; and it is worthy of 
reniark, that the green coloration, so characteristic of peridot or olivine, gives 
place to a general gray tint analogous to that of meteorites of the common type. 

This product of the reduction and fusion of peridotic rocks greatly resembles, 
therefore, that of meteorites treated in the same manner. The analogy subsists, 
in a striking manner, for the stony part ; it equally subsists for the metallic part. 
In eiiect, the metallic iron, proceeding from the redaction of the })eridot of Laii- 
geac, contains O.G per 100, or O.OOG of nickel. That furnished by the Iherzolite 
of Lherz likewise contains nickel and phosphuret in addition. I have obtained 

* These different ehemical analyses were made by M. Stanislas Meunier, assistant natuialiet 
at the nmseuiii of iiaiural history. 



EXPERIMENTS RELATIVE TO METEORITES. 329 

results still more decided and characteristic by operating- on masses of peridot 
and llierzolite weiij^'liing' as much as 12 kilograms. Precii)itates of iron, relatively 
vohiminons ami susee[)til)le of being submitted to the experiment of Widman- 
stiitteu, have thiis been obtained; also a very distinct parting and the ajipear- 
ance of a regular iigure [iroduced by the unattached matter. 

Further, it has tims been possible to observe a fact which in operating with 
small granules had passed unperceived, but the importance of which will not 
escajie those who have had occasion to examine the natural external surface of 
masses of meteoric iron. I speak of the angular forms, such as are presented by 
the iron meteorites of Charcas and of San Francisco del Mesquital, and also of 
those problematic capsides, such as are displayed particularly In' the first of these 
blocks, and still more distinctly by that of Juncal, {Coiupfcs Ixcndu^, t. Ixvi, p. 
701, 1868.) Certain of these gramdations present the angular forms, and their 
artilicial surfaces bear, moreover, depressions here and there, characters wholly 
analogous to those which we have just recalled. They have manifestly origin- 
ated during' the cooling b\' a sort of motilding of the iron against the stony mat- 
ter, which has become tough, if not solid, when the iron was still possessed of 
fluidity. In presence of this result, we would seem to be brought back to the 
hypothesis emuiciated on occasion of the iron meteorite of Toula, and the angular 
f(jrms of the meteorites of Charcas and San Francisco del Jlescpiital, {Comptcs 
licmluSj t. Ixvi, p. 573,) according- to which hypothesis the meteoric irons were 
produced in the midst of silicated masses, between which they were moulded and 
from which they were ultimately detached. 

"We have thus seen meteorites reproduced in the general features of their com- 
position ; we will find that they have been imitated with eipial success in certain 
intimate details of their structure. 

If we examine with the microscope a thin lamina of peridot or llierzolite after 
fusion, we observe, as in the greater part of meteorites of the common tyjie, those 
series of parallel straight lines resend)ling strokes of the burin, remarkable for 
their regularity, in the Uiidst of clefts of irregidar form. These lines are owing 
to the existence of planes of cleavage. Moreover, fine needles of enstatite, par- 
allel and perceptibly ec^uidistant, arranged also in (dusters, recall the d(,'tails of 
texture disclosed by the microscopic examination of a number of meteorites* 

The globular structure is so frequent in meteorites of the connnon t\\w. that it 
Las earned for this wlude group the denomination of chondrite. Now, we see 
similar grains, or spherules, make their appearance in many of the ex})enments 
conducted by the fusion of magnesiun silicates. Among these globules some 
have a smooth surface, others a drused sm-face, or one rough with small micro- 
scopic crystals. The latter entirely rest^mble the globules of the meteorite of 
Sigena, (17th November, 1773,) of the friable variety. These globules are not 
attacked by acids, like those of the meteorites. The analysis of a sjK'cinien has 
sh(jwn that it contains more silex than the bisilicate. Lastly, the surfaces of fric- 
tion, with a coating of graphitic a])pearauce, which many meteorites present in 
the interior, as, for exami)le, that of Alexandria, {2d February, 18G0,) are well 
imitated with the fused silicates which contain iron reduced to very small grains, 
when two fragments are rubbed one against the other. 

In another series of experiments, hydrogen, not charcoal, was employed as the 
reducer, and the results were found to be of the same order; thus, llierzolite and 
pyroxene exposed to a current of hydrogen abandon, in the state of metal, the 
iron which existed in the form of silicate of protoxide. The reaction may bo 
ellected at a temperature which does not exceed the red. Under these same? con- 
ditions the jihosphates, whether alone or in the presence of the silicates, are 

* Apart from tlie instauco of the meteorite of Aumalo, I will refer tlio retuler to tlio.se which 
are iif^urcd in the importiiiit woric of my learned fiiend Gustiive Rose, (or tiie met( orites of 
Kiasnoi-I'^oi, of Stuuropol, and for the peridot of tho iron meteorite of Ptillus, (i'i. i, Fig. 
lU, and I'l. iv, FigH. 7, «, 'J.) 



330 EXPERIMENTS RELATIVE TO METEORITES. 

reduced to pliosphnrets, so that the final product of the action of the hydrogen 
presents a great chemical analogy with the meteorites. 

IMITATION OF METEORITES OF THE COMMON TYPE BY OXIDATION OF 

SILICIURBTS. 

There is a second method by whic^i we are enabled to effect the imitation of 
meteorites. It is the inverse of the preceding, and consists in heating the domi- 
nant bodies of meteorites of the common type, other than the oxygen, that is to 
say, the iron, the silicium, and the magnesium, in an atmosphere inct)mplotely 
oxidizing, and by conducting the process not only to roasting, but fusion, or in 
effect to scorification. 

By exposing to the high temperature of the gas blow-pipe siliciuret of iron 
contained in a brasque of magnesium we obtain a perfect imitation, in all that is 
essential, of meteorites of the common type. The iron is separated, as well in 
a metallic state as in that of a silicate, and peridot is produced, partly in a crys- 
tallized form. This peridot presents divers shades, among others the olive tint 
which is habitual to it in natm-e. * ******, 

§ 2. DEDUCTIONS AS RESPECTS THE ORIGIN OF THE PLANETARY BODIES 
FROM WHICH METEORITES ARE DERIVED. — TEMPERATURE. 

In the first place, is it possible to form an idea of the temperature at which 
the cosmical bodies in question are formed ? 

The experiments above stated seem to authorize us to assign to it certain limits. 
The temperature was doubtless high, since the anhydrous silicates, such as peri- 
dot and pyroxene, were produced. It appears, however, to have been lower than 
that at wliich the preceding experiments were conducted. Two facts lead us to 
this supposition. Tlie high temperature employed in the laboratory residted in 
the formation of silicates in well defined and voluminous crystals; such as are 
never met with in meteorites. It is worthy of remark, in fact, that the silieated 
substances, which compose the meteorites of the common ty})e, are always in the 
state of very small and confused crystals, notwithstanding the strong tendency 
w'hich they have to crystallize. Were we to seek some analogy in nature, we 
should say that the crystals obtained by the fusion of meteorites recall the long 
needles of ice which liquid water forms in congealing, while the fine-grained 
structure of natural meteorites resembles rather that of hoar-frost or snow, formed, 
as we know, by the immediate transition of atmospheric vapor to a solid state, 
or perhaps that of the Hour of sulphiu' produced under analogous conditions* 
Moreover, in meteorites the form of the grains of iron is wholly irregular and, 
as it were, tubercular, (Sierra de Chaco). But the temperature employed in 
these exj)eriments caused the metallic granules to take, in general, a spherical 
form ; which is never observed in meteorites. 

I have sought to imitate the mode of dissemination of metallic iron in silicate;?, 
as it occurs in common meteorites, by exposing to a high temperature an inti- 
mate mixture of reduced iron and Iherzolite. After fusion of the whole, the 
particles of iron reunite in numerous and still very small grains, the globular 
form of which, easily distinguishable, especially after the specimen has been 
polished, contrasts with the grains of tubercular form disseminated in the mete- 
orites. 

Let it be distinctly observed that, in all cases, this original heat does not 
exist when the masses penetrate into our atmosphere. In effect, the carbon- 
aceous meteorite of Orgueil is composed of a stony matter, holding in combina- 
tion, or in intimate mixture, even in its central parts, water and volatile sub- 
stances ; it is, by reason of so sensitive a nature, a true thermomete? a maximum, 
which indicates to us that these bodies could not be else than cold at the moment 



EXPERIMENTS RELATIVE TO METEORITES. 331 

©f tlu'ir arrival in our atmosphero, for it is not in tlie latter that these volatile 
compountls can have been incorporated with them. 

CHEMICAL CONSTITUTION AXD MODE OF FORMATIOiV. 

After the experiments which we have detailed, the very characteristic natiu'o 
of the masses from which meteorites proceed may be readily explained, and that 
in a two-fold manner, according as we have recourse to the experiments of reduc- 
tion or to those of oxidation. 

It has been seen that the characters of meteorites are reproduced, even to the 
intimate details of their structure, in the reduction of basic silicated rocks bj 
means of charcoal. Let us not conclude, however, that the meteorites have been 
formed In* this process ; for if this were so, the carbon would doubtless have car- 
buretted the iron in a very considerable degree, as in steel or in casting, which 
is not ordinarily the case. Moreover, there is room for asking, in the case in 
which the formation of meteorites may have been accompanied by a reductive 
action, whether it would not be necessary to attribute it rather to a hydrogenated 
atmosphere.* The ingenious experiment by which M. Graham has veriiied the 
presence of hydrogen in a state of occlusion in the meteonc iron of the specimen 
of Lenarto, would serve as a confirmation of this idea, which had been announced 
previously to the discovery of the eminent English chemist, [Comptcs llcndus, 
19th February, 1SG6, t. Ixii). 

In j)lace of considering- the cosmical bodies with whic^h we are occupied as the 
result of a reduction of silicated rocks, perhaps it is more simple and conclusive 
to have recourse to the idea of an oxidation analogous to those whicdi we have 
artificially realized. Let us su})[)ose, as has been done for our globe, that the 
silicium and metals of the meteorites have not always been combined with oxygen, 
as they are at present for the most part, and this, perhaps, because the initial 
temperatiu'e of these bodies was sufficiently high to prevent them from entering 
into combination, or because, being at first at a distance, they did not approach 
one another. 

If, in consecpience of refrigeration, or from any other cause, such as an approx- 
imatit>n of these bodies, the oxygen comes to act suddenly, it will unite itself 
with the more oxidable elements. The silicium and magnesium will burn before 
the iron and nickel ; and if the burning gas is not sufficiently abundant to oxi- 
dize the whole, or if it does not act during a sufficient time, it will leave a metal- 
lic residue com])osed of the less oxidable bodies ; these metals, the iron and nickel, 
must remain disseminated in a gangue of silicates while retaining their metallic 
state, exactly as wo observe it in the m(;teorites. ]\Ioreover, there will l)e thus 
formed a silicate of magnesium more or less rich in protoxide of ii'on, having the 
composition of peridot. 

As is now seen, if we su[)pose the oxidation })ashed successively to dilierent 
degrees, the preceding experinu'uts exjjlain not only the formation of meteorites 
of the common type, but also that of the group of syssiderous and of the sub- 
group of j)olysiderous meteorites. These bodies are, therefore, to be assimilated 
to products by the dry way. This mode of formation appears not to apply so 
well to the meteorites pertaining to the group of crt/ptosklcrous, and particularly 
to those of the type of Juvinas, of Stannern and of Jonzac. It has been seen 
how close an analogy allies them with certain aluminous lavas formed of pyrox- 

* It these meteorites have been thus t'oriiied, there iiuist have been water produced ou the 
surface of the bodies of which they made a part, lint those bodies may uot have been able 
to preserve the water by reason ot their small dimensions. Further, the reduction, if it lias 
taken place, could only have been partial ; for, in f^eneral, the iron is but reduced in part, 
whether in a metallic slate or in the state of a suljjhurnt or plmsphuret ; another part of this 
same nutal is ordinarily combined, as protoxide, in a silicate, and also iu the state of chio- 
uiated iron, (chromitc of protoxide of iron.) 



332 EXPERIMEXTS RELATIVE TO METEORITES. 

eue and anorthite. Now water, in the presence of wliicU tliese last were formed, 
conld have been no stranger to their crj^stallization. In no case do these rocha 
crvstaUize under the conditions of dry fusion, as the niagnesian silicates so read- 
ily do; fusion transforms them into vitreous and amorphous masses. Hence, the 
nieteorites of this last type seem rather pi-oducts 1)}' tlie mixed way, which we 
might imitate, perhaps, by operating in water overcharged with heat. 

As to the carl)onac.eous meteorites, they differ from all others, in that, doubt- 
less, several of the substances which constitute them have V>ecn formed at a tem- 
perature but little elevated. At first view, we miglit be tempted to consider 
them as planetary vegetable earth ; but it is possible, and the supposition is even 
probable, that these carburetted compounds have been formed without the con- 
currence of life and represent the last terms of certain reactions. 

§ 3. DEDUCTION'S AS KESPECTS THE FORMATION OF THE TERKESTRIAL 
GLOBE. — ANALOGIES AND DIFFERENCES BETWEEN METEORITES AND 
TERRESTRIAL ROCKS. 

We have seen above how much analogy of composition exists between mete- 
orites and sundry terrestrial rocks. Not only do they include the same simple 
bodies, but the tliree bodies which predominate in the series of meteorites, namely, 
the iron, silicium, and oxygen, are also those which predominate in our globe ; 
besides, we discover therein mineral species common to both and associated in 
the same manner. 

It should here be remarked that the rocks which offer such traits of resemblance 
with the meteorites all pertain to the deep regions of the globe. They are 
eruptive masses of a basic nature, or lavas, or jieridotic rocks, the reseivoir of 
■which is situated below the granitic stratum. We will recall (1) the lava formed 
of anorthite and of pyroxene, and such as has been found at the Thjorsa, in 
Iceland, for its approximation to the aluminous type (or that of Juvinas), the 
sixth of the seven principal types of meteorites which have been established 
above ; (2) the peridot and the Iherzolite, which present striking resemblances 
with the silicated part of the magnesian meteorites, and particularly with those 
of the common type. We know, from the examination made of it by M. Damour,* 
that the Iherzolite is composed of peridot, with which are united enstatite, pyrox- 
ene, and sometimes spinelle, (picotite). The magnesian meteorites may also be 
compared to the hypersthene, pervaded by grains of peridot, which has been 
brought from Labrador. 

But by the side of these resemblances between meteorites and certain terrestrial 
Classes there exist differences which deserve no less to fix our attention. These 
differences l)ear essentially on the state of oxidation of the iron. Meteorites, 
like terrestrial rocks, contain protoxide of iron combined with silicium (silicate) 
a,nd with the oxide of chrome, (chroniated iron). On the contrary, oxydulated 
U'on, so frequent in our basic silicated rocks, fails, in general, in the meteorites. 
(t is there replaced, in some sort, by native iron, which, on the other hand, is 
^'anting in our rocks. t 

There is a second difference of the same character with the preceding. The 

* Bulletin de la Socie(S siologique de France, 2d sene, t. xix, p. 413. Ou this occasion, it 
's mere justice to ackno\vied«:e the acuteness of observation of M. Lolievre, who us early as 
1767, in anuouucing t.!ie discovery of this remarkable rock, already recognized it as a 
variety of chrysoHte, or peridot, (Journal de Physique, May, 17(^7, letter to de la Metherie.) 
Twenty-five years later, M. de Charpeutier supposed he had demonstrated this same rock to 
be no other than a pyroxene in mass, and this conclusion was hastily and very generally 
idopted. The variations presented by Iherzolite serve to explain the too absolute couclusiou 
«f a mineralogist so experienced. 

t It is true that oxydulated iron is found in the carbonaceous meteorites, such as that of 
Orgueil ; but these last pertain to a rare and wholly special category. 



EXPERIMENTS RELATIVE TO METEORITES. 333 

phoSpluiret of iron and of nickel, hist recognized by Ik'rzelius, is found alincst 
always associated with the meteoric iron. This, like native iron, is entin^ly 
deficient in our rocks, where it is replaced l)y the phosphates i)articulaily I're- 
qnent in the basic silicated rocks.* 

Without insistini^ furtlicr on some other contrasts of the same nature, we recog- 
nize that the essential diirenuice between these meteorites ami the analo2;ous ter- 
restrial rocks consists in this : that the first contain, in a reduced state, certain 
substances which the second contain in an oxydized state. Everything" leads 
tt) the belief that masses between which t«i)ere exists such a similarity of compo- 
sititm would have been identical, notwithstanding their immense separation^ if 
they had not undergone dilFcrent actions. 

rMPORTANCE OF TKE MAGXESIAN ROCKS OF THE rERIDOT TYPE, AS WELL 
IN THE TElHiESTllIAL GLOBE AS IN OUR PLANETARY SYSTEM. 

Among the basic silicates there is one which presents itself with remarkable 
constancy in almost all the varieties of meteorites, from those of iron to those of 
Btone, properly so called ; this is peridot. In the latter it is rarely solitary (Chas- 
signy) ; connnonly it is mixed with more acid silicates, often in undiscernible 
parts, t On the other hand, peridot necessarily exists in the profound depths of 
our globe. 

In etl'ect, the basalts of the most distant regions have brought up fragments 
of it, which often remain angular, and which would l>e])ronounced to have heen 
torn from a deep and pre-existent mass. Detached peridotic masses abound, as 
is well known, in different volcanic regions of France, (Langeac, Haute-Loire, 
]\[onrerrier, Ilerault,) on the banks of the Ilhine (environs of Lake Laach,) and 
in other countries. At the same time there are other pyroxenic rocks in which 
peridot is abundant, as, for example, in the dolerites of the environs of JMontar- 
ville and of ^Montreal, in Canada, wherein, according to M. Stei'ry limit, [Geology 
of Ctoufda, ])p. 4G4, 706,) it forms sometimes nearly half of the total weight, 
liocks rich in peridot have also been met with, traversing tlu; chalk, in the neigh- 
borhood of Teschen, in Bohemia, and have been described by M. Tschermak, 
who has recently published a notice on the presence of olivine in rocks, [Bul- 
letin cle V Academic de Viennc, 11th July, 18G7). Again, peridot constitutes the 
base of the Iherzolite which has made an eruption at man}- points of the Pyrenees, 
among others, near the lake of Lherz, and which occurs in other countries. 
Thus it is known in the Tyrol, and but a few years ago was discovered in New 
Zealand, where it forms an entire chain, by j\I. de liochstetter, who has given it 
the name of d unite ; more recently still it has been found in Nassau, at Trigen- 
Btein, by M. I'\ Sandberger, who calls it by the name of olivinfcls, [Lconliard's 
JaJirburh, 18G5 and 1SG7.) To this it may be added that ^l. Kjerulf has lately 
ascertained that a rock which abounds in the environs of B(;rgen, Norway, and 
which M. Keilliau had heretofore considered as a metamorphic grit, is composed 
in part of nickeliferous j)eridot, with which are associated chroinated iron, and 
talc. It may be further noticed that, after having recognized peridot in the rock 
of Ijlfdalen, in Sweden, M. G. Hose has found it also in the augite rocks of 
Neunjde, in Silesia. 

We. are thus led to recognize that the part fulfilled by peridot, so restricted 

* The stone of Juvinas, in which M. Rammelsberg has announced iron in the state of a 
phosphate, only affords confirmation of this rulo ; for it contains metallic iron only in the 
minutest quantity. It was difficult, tlieroforc, that any phospiniret of that metal should be 
formed. 

t Of more than 150 meteoric falls represented in the collections, we possess as yet only 
four which pertain to the aluminous type, being those of Juvinas, .Joiizac, Stanuern, and 
Petersburg, (United States.) Tiio others are magnesian meteorites, wliich, almost all, contain 
peridot. 



334 EXPERIMENTS RELATIVE TO METEORITES 

on the surface of the earth, is, beyond doubt* predominant at a certain depth. 
Hence, its importance may be infeired as well in regard to our globe as to the 
rest of our planetary system, as far, at least, as we can judge of the latter l)y the 
specimens which reach us. The rocks of peridot, therefore, excluded until now 
from the general classifications of lithology, would seem destined to hold here- 
after a special and considerable place in them. By annexing serpentine to the 
rocks in qirestion we might comprise theui under the name of i\\Q peridot ic f am ily, 
or that of cosmknl rocks. 

Tliere is, in the mean time, no room for surprise that peridot does not come in 
greater abundance to the surface of the globe. It is, in effect, the most basic 
silicate that is known, and it has a strong tendency to take up silicium and to 
become transformed into a more acid silicate, such as enstatite or pj-roxene, as is 
shown by the experiments lieretofoi'e detailed. Now, to cume from its primitive 
seat to the surface, it must necessarily have traversed rocks more acid than itself, 
and having kilometers of thickness. On these it would inevitably react, and 
may thus have given rise to those pyroxenic or amphibolic rocks which are so 
numerous, and which establish a sort of transition between pure peridot and 
pyroxene. Perhaps it is to reactions of this kind that we must attribute those 
gradual passages of Iherzolite to pyroxenic or amphibolic rocks, of which the 
Pyrenees present examples at many points.* 

TRANSFORMATION OF SERPENTINE INTO LHERZOLITE OR INTO PERIDOT. 

THEORETICAL DEDUCTIONS. 

There is another magnesian rock which it is proper to place near the peridot 
and the Iherzolite, notwithstanding the differences which separate it from these 
last. Serpentine presents itself among eruptive rocks, with exceptional charac- 
ters, as being at once hydrated, infusible, aud without distinct crystallization. 
Geologists admit, generally, that serjtentine resuhs from the transformation of 
another rock, and that it is derived frcmi peridot, at least in certain cases where 
it has preserved the characteristic form of the crystals of that substance. 

Deferring the realization of sei'pentine from peridot as being at the present 
moment impracticable, I have been content to follow the inverse order, that is, 
to transform serpentine into peridot. Here the relative composition of the two 
minerals pointed out the course to be pursued ; the serpentine di tiers from peridot 
only in containing water and including more silicium or less magnesium. It was 
requisite, therefore, to fuse the serpentine with the addition of magnesium in order 
to realize the constitution of peridot. 

By treating in this manner the serpentines of Snarum, in Norway ; of Monte- 
Ferrato, in Tuscany ; of Sainte-Sabine, in the Vosges ; and of Gaito, in 
Isera, I obtained, after fusion, masses confusedly crystalline and oflering in raanj' 
of their parts all the characters of peridot. Needles of enstatite are frequently 
disseminated therein or cover the surface. Tlie presence of this bisilicate is 
explained by the fact that the specimens operated upon might include a little 
more silicium than the type of the formula (Mg^ Si*) with which I had started. 

These results have led me to examine the product of the pure and sim})le fusion 
of serpentines. The experiment made, in crucil)les of earth, on specimens of 
different origin (Snarum, in Norway; Zoeblitz, in Saxony; Favero, in Pied- 
mont) has also yielded mixtures of peridot and of enstatite, tliough, in these, tlie 
former mineral appears in smaller proportion than in the fusions inade in pies- 
ence of maguesium. The serpentine of Baldissero, in Piedmont, known by the 
veins of magnesium and resinite quartz which it has secreted, has presented the 
result best characterized ; needles of enstatit-e grouped with remarkable regularity, 
parallel with one another and in clusters, detach themselves In the midst of the 

* De Charpentier, Essai sur la constitution gcognostique des Pyren6es. 



EXPERIMENTS RELATIVE TO METEORITES. 335 

crvstallino peridot ;* it is identically the same product yielded by llierzolite. 
Itslionld be remarked, however, that when serpentine is melted, without any 
addition, in a crucible, it cannot fail to take up from the walls of the latter some 
uf hs elements, and particularly silex. 

In these fusions, as in those of meteorites, the tendency which the peridot and 
enstatite have to crystallize causes them to appear in very distinct crystals ; l)ut 
tlie product obtained includes, moreover, other silicates, aluminous or otherwise, 
which remain intimately intermixed, and, as it were, dissolved in the interior of 
the former. 

These various results, the last especially, show that serpentine has often a 
decided tendency to change into peridot, as if it then only entered into its normal 
state. This is a reason the more for considering serpentine, at least in a certain 
number of its repositories, as a peridot or a Iherzolite which has lost a certain 
quantity of its magnesiuni, and has become hydrated, by an operation which 
recalls that of the conversion of feldspar into kaolin. 

The direct observation of rocks confinns this conclusion. On the one hand, 
there exist Iherzolites which graduall}' degenerate into serpentine, as is ol)served 
in certain localities of the Pyrenees ;t at Brezouars, in the Vosges ;| at Neurode, 
in yilesia; and in the rock known by the name oi schillerfcJs or basiife'm Tran- 
8ylvania,§ in Nassau, and elsewhere, j] On the other hand, there are serpentines 
which manifest as clearly their relation with theperidotic rocks. A more demon- 
strative instance of this lact cannot be seen than in the serpentine of Baldissero, 
of which 1 have already spoken. One of the varieties of this serpentine per- 
taining to the collection of the Museum, where it was placed by M. Oordier, per- 
fectly recalls, in its external characters, the Iherzolite of the Pyrenees. 1 have 
recognized, moreover, that, like the latter, it is interspersed with crystals of ensta- 
tjte of the bronzite variety, with pyroxene diopside of an emerald green and 
chrtimiferous, as well as with black chromiferous spinelle, sometimes in regular 
octahedrons, (variety called picotite.) These three mineral species present iu 
both rocks exactly tlie same facies. Yet, ncjtwithstanding these analogies, the 
serpentine of Baldissero is distinguished from Iherzolite by its imperfect hardness 
and its persistency in water; it constitutes, as it were, one of the states of tran- 
sition of the iirst rock to the second. The minerals which have resisted hydra- 
tation remain as witnesses of the primitive state, in such sort that the relation of 
kaolin to feldspar is not better demonstrated than the transformation which we 
arc Considering. 

There is nothing to prove that the hydratation which has been produced in 
the transformati(jn of peridotic rock into serpentine was ellected by agentnes on 
the surface of the globe. The eruptive serpentine of the Apennines, the Alps, 
and of so many diil'erent countries, may have been ejected from below alter hav- 
ing already acquired the water which it contains to-day. The manner in which 
glass is decomposed iu water super-saturated with heat and is changed into a 
hydrated silicate, as I have veriiied in former experiments,^ would not seem to 
be without analogy with the reaction which may have produced the serpentine 
at the expense of ^)re-existent anhydrous silicates. 

Not that 1 would pretend, however, that all serpentine masses result from tin 

* 1 lu! pseudophite of Mount Zdinr, iu Moniviii, which contains onstatite antl which ditferi 
from i^orpeutine hy tho presence of alumina, dues not yield veiy distinct crystals. 

t Do l.liaipetitier, Esuais sur la cimslil ulion gfiti^nuslujUR dts Pyriiiltis. 

X I'ournet, BulUlin Sue. (ieolufiujut dt t'rance, 2d series, t. iv, p. '2<17. 

$ 'I'schermak, BulUtin Acad, dis Scicncfs dc yienne, loc. citato. 

il III the WW repository of Iherzolite discovered by M. F. Saiidberpcr, in Nassau, that dis 
tinjTUisliei-l geologist has observed all sorts of transitions of this peridotic rock into serpentine. 
Lrdiiliarrt's .lalirbuck, I8G5, p. 441). 

lUSji ntbetic experiments on iiictamorpliism. (Annnles drs Mines, r>th series, t. xvi, p.4?-5.) 
On the forniatiou o^ zeolites, {BulUlin i>uc. (Jeulogique de I'rancc, 'ZH series, t. xvi, p. 5bd ) 



336 EXPERIMENTS RELATIVE TO METEORITES. 

transformation of peridotic rocks; there are tliose^in effect, wliicli have been con- 
sidered as being derived from pyroxenicand other rocks. It is proper to observe 
on this occasion that the experiment by whicli I have shown abcjve with what 
facihty peridot is transformed inro sihcates less basic well explains, in general, 
the numerous transitions of serpentine to other rocks, as, in the first place, to 
euphotide, which is so ordinarily associated with it, as well as to the dioritesand 
pj-roxenic rocks, the prasophyres, &c., which accompany it in Tuscany,* in dif- 
ferent regions of the Alps and in many other countries. 

The analogies which subsist between serpentine and peridotic rocks have led 
to an examination of the former in reference to the synthesis of meteorites. If 
we melt serpentine in a brasque of charcoal the grains of iron which are sepa- 
rated from it often include nickel in considerable proportion, as when we operate 
upon peridot. For example, the iron extracted from the serpentine of Sainte- 
Sabine, in the Vosges, contains 0.67 per 100 of nickel. That of a serpentine 
of Mount Genevre has yielded it also, but. in quantities too minute for accurate 
apportionment. t 

To these traits of similarity of composition between serpentines and meteorites 
is to be added the presence of chrome. On the one hand, chrome is found in 
most of the serpentines, not only in the state of a green comliination, | l)ut also 
in the state of cln-omated iron, as is observed in the most different coinitrics. § 
On the other hand, the important observation made by Laiigierin 1806, \\ namely, 
that chrome is rarely absent in meteorites, has but acquired confirmation. There 
are, in effect, very few stone-meteorites which are not mixed, at least in a small 
proportion, with chroniite or chromated iron. Thus, apart from its persistency 
in water, serpentine maybe assimilated to meteorites of theconmion type, almost 
as rightfully as peridot and Iherzolite. It is proper further to remark that the 
carbonaceous meteorites (Cape of Good-Hope, Kaba, and Orgueil) appear to con- 
tain a hydrated magnesium silicate, which M. Wohler states to be analogous to 
serpentine. 

I will add an observation on the formation of spinelle, ■which Is sometimes dis- 
seminated in peridot, as is seen in some localities of the Haute-Loire, in the Iher- 
zolite of the Pyrenees, and in the serpentine Iherzolite of Baldissero. 

Peridot being the most basic rnagnesian silicate which the rocks afford, the 
presence of this spinelle seems susceptible of easy explanation. As the alumina 
was disseminated in a very basic silicate, with which it could not dispute the 
silicium, nothing remained for it but to unite with the bases, magnesium and 
protoxide of iron. I have confirmed this supposition b}' a synthetic experiment. 
If we fuse the natural peridot, at a very high tenqjerature, with alunnna, (10 per 
100,) we shall see, after the fusion, in the crystaUine peridotic mass, small black 
grains which are infusible, unaltered by acids, and which contain, at once, alu- 
mina, magnesium, and protoxide of iron ; some of them exhibit the form of the 
regular octahedron. Tliese crystals, all of which have the characters of pleo- 
naste spinelle, furnish a perfectly satisfactory reason lor the formation of this 
mineral in the peridotic and the Iherzolithic rocks. 

CHARACTERS WHICH DISTINGUISH PERIDOTIC ROCKS. 

Among the characters of peridotic rocks there are three which clearly distin- 

* Paul Savi, Delle liocce qfioiitiche delta Toscana, 1838, p. 11. 

+ It is proper to recall ou this occasion that the uickel lirst indicated by Stromeyer, in cer- 
tain serpentines, at the same time as in peridot, has since then been found in the serpentines 
of regions far remote from one another — in Saxony, in Silesia, in Norway, in Texas, in Penn- 
Bylvania ; this metal is not wanting in the serpentines of Canada, according to the analyses 
of M. Sterry Hunt, {Geology of Canada, p 471.) 

t Indicated long since by Valentine Rose and Klaproth. 

$ Department ot the Var, Saxony, Baden, the Austrian Alps, Moravia, Scotland, Norway, 
Greece, the Ural, numerous depositories in the United Sta'.es, Canada, &-c. 

U Annales du Museum, t. vii, p. 393, 18UG. 



EXPERIMENTS RELATIVE TO METEORITES. 337 

finish tliem from all other silicated rocks, and which deserve to fix the attention. 
(1) l\'ridut represents the most basic silicated type that is known, whether in 
the meteorites or in eruptive rocks. In that series of which it constitutes the 
first term and which terminates at the granite, it forms the species at once the 
most simple in composition and the best defined. (2) Under the point of view 
of the mode of crystallization, })cridot, as well as the bisilicate of magnesium, or 
estatite, which is its frequent companion, is distinguished from the aluminous 
silicates, particularly^ from those of the group i)f feldspar, by the facility with 
which they are formed and become crystallized by the dry way, after simple 
fusion. On the contrar}*, it has never been foimd practicable to crj^stallize arti- 
ficially, under the same conditions, anything having a resemblance, even i-emotely, 
to feldspar and to granite. (3) Hocks of jjcridot are very remarkable also by 
their great density, which is superior, as the following table will show, to that 
of all other eruptive rocks, and even to that of the basalts : 

Granite 2.64 to 2.76 

Trachyte 2.62 to 2.88 

Porphyrite 2.76 

Diabase 2.66 to 2.88 

Basalt 2.9 to 3.1 

Enstatite 3.303 

Lherzolite 3.25 to 3.33 

Peridot 3.33 to 3.35 

These diflFerent rocks must at their origin have been superposed on one another 
in an order conformable to their augmentation of density. The great density of 
the peridotic rocks justifies the normal position wliich they appear to hold within 
the crust of the earth, beneath the granite envelope, beneath even the aluminous 
basic rocks. 

COMPAKATIVE DENSITIES OF METEORITES AKD OF THE PRINCIPAL TER- 
RESTRIAL ROCKS. 

Setting aside the carbonaceous meteorites, which should be considered as out- 
side of the series, we might conceive the meteorites to be disposed in concentrio 
spherical strata, forming an ideal globe, whose density would go on increasing 
from the surface towards the center. At the exterior would be the aluminous 
stones ; then would come the jieridotic stones, those of the common type, tho 
polysiderous, the syssiderous, and finally the holosiderous. 

AVe may remark that this theoretical section is not without some analogy with 
an ideal section of the terrestrial globe, distinction being made of the sedimen- 
tary deposits and of thegranito-gneissic stratum. In this section the lavas would 
correspond to the aluminous meteorites ; l)elovv these the peridot would be tlio ^ 
analogue of the stone of Chassigny ; the lherzolite and other rocks of the same 
kind would well repieseut the meteorites of the connnon type. Here, it is true, 
stop the analogies which can be directly observed, but here also stops the knowl- 
edge which we have of the more profound regions of our globe. There is 
nothing repugnant to reason in supposing that these more profound parts of tho 
earth afford resemblances to the ideal globe which we have just constructed by 
the superposition of tho diflPerent kinds of meteorites ; there is nothing to prove, 
in a word, that one of the globes does not complete the other. 

This comparison, which may seem, perhaps, somewhat precarious, will be bet- 
ter understood by means of the following table, the first colunm of which con- 

22 s 



338 



EXPERIMENTS EELATIVE TO METEORITES. 



tains, with the densities, the principal types of meteorites, wliilo the second col- 
umn exhibits the principal terrestrial rocks : 



I. 


Densities. 


II. 


Densities. 


<( 


3. to 3. 

3.5 

3.5 to 3,8 

6. 5 to 7. 

7. 1 to 7. 8 

7. to 8. 


Stratified formatioHs...... 


2.6 


(( 


Granite and gneiss . 


2.7 


(( 


Pyroxenous lavas .......... 


2.9 










3.3 


Peridotic meteorites 


Lberzolite. . .... .. ...... ..... 


3.5 


Meteorites of tlie common type. 
Polysiderous meteorites, (Sierra 


(< 

it 
<( 

u 




Syssiderous meteorites, (Pallas. ) 
Holosiderous meteorites, (Char- 









PEKIDOT CONSIDERED AS A UNIVERSAJL SCORIA. 

The idea to which we have thus been conducted, in order to explain the origin 
of the planetary bodies from which meteorites proceed, illustrates' also the mode 
of fonnation of that thick silicated mass which constitutes the external part of 
the terrestrial globe. 

As early as the commencement of the century, Davy, after having made known 
the results of his admirable discovery of the composition of the alkalies and 
earths, supposed that the metals engaged in these oxides might exist in a free 
state in the interior of the globe ; and he saw in their oxidation, by the access 
of water and air, the cause of the heat and eruptions of volcanos. 

Subsequently this hypothesis has been enlarged by extending it to the origin 
of the teiTestrial crust itself, which comprises, precisely in the state of silicates, 
the oxides of the metals most avid of oxygen ; namely, potassium, sodium, cal- 
cium, magnesium, aluminum, and by considering even the water of the seas as 
the result of the combustion of the hydrogen in this general oxidation or confla- 
gration. Sir Henry de la Beche, whose genius embraced all the great questions 
of geology, was among the first to propound this idea,* for which the way had 
been prepared by the important observations of Haussmann, Mitscherlicb, and 
Berthier on the scoriae of manufactures,! and which M. Elie de Beaumont has, 
with much justice, designated by the expression of yiatural cupcUatlon. % With- 
out long explanations, it will be seen how this theoretic view is confirmed and 
justified by the results which I have obtained in the synthesis of the meteorites. 
• After what has been stated, it is natural to admit that the rocks of peridot, 
whose importance has been recognized in the constitution of the deeper regions 
of our globe, have the same origin with the similar silicates which form a part 
of the meteorites. These peridotic rocks would thus be, in our planet, the most 
direct product of a scorification which has been etFected at an extremely remote 
epoch. 

* Researches in Theoretical Geology, 1834. The French translation of this work was pub- 
lished in 1838, by M. de Collegno. 

t Among the numerous observations of Haussmann, which extend back as far as ISIP), I 
would expressly mention his memoir entitled De usu Experientiarum Metallurgicarum ad 
disquisitiones Geologicas luljuvandas, (Gosttingen gelehrte Aiizeigen, 1837.) It is proper 
also to mention that as early as 1823, Mitscheriich recognized the forms of peridot and 
pyroxene in the crystals of metallurgic scoriaB ( Abhandlungen der K. Academie der fVisscn- 
schaften zu Berlin, 1823, p. 25.) 

t Bulletin Soc. Geologiqiie, 2d series, t. iv, p. 1326, 1847. 



EXPERIMENTS RELATIVE TO METEORITES, 339 

It is essential to have a correct nnderstanclinaf respecting this term scorificathn. 
"We know that when a bath of inipnre castings is kept in fusion in contact with 
the air, the iron is oxidized as well as certain bodies which arc associated with 
it, of which silicinm is the most important. Tlie oxiciation gives rise to a fer- 
ruginons silicate, wliich occupies the upper part of the metallic bath. This is a 
true licpiid scoria; in cooling it will at Jirst become doughy, then solid; and in 
the latter state will present a compact lithoidal crystalline structure ; one wholly 
difi'erent, in a word, from the spongy and tufaceous substances to which we give 
the name of volcanic scoricTe. Tlie former and metallurgic sense is that in which 
we understand the scorification of the globe. 

As to the feldspathic rocks, many geologists consider that they have not been 
produced simply by the dry way, as we have just shown has been probably the 
case with the deep peridotic beds, but that they have been formed by the inter- 
vention of particular agents, among others of water. However this may be, we 
may here find, esj^ecially in the trachytes, the other extreme term of the series 
of masses silicated in the general scorification. The opposition between these 
two types, the most distinct and the best characterized, bears not only on the 
niineralogical composition and the circumstances of crystallization, but also on 
the density of these masses and their situation at depths necessarily very differ- 
ent. Let it be remarked farther that this primitive scorification, extending 
through a thickness so ^considerable, may, even at the existing epoch, i)resent, 
according to the depth, masses in the three states of which we have been speak- 
ing — solid, viscid, or liquid. * 

If metallic iron, quite habitual in meteorites, is wanting in terrestrial rocks, 
tins difference may simply result from the circumstance that in our globe, where 
the oxygen of the atmosphere is in excess, the oxidation may have been complete 
and have left no metallic residue. When, however, we say that the terrestrial 
masses contJiin no native iron it is evident that the question onl}' regards those 
which eruptions render accessi'ble to our investigations ; masses which, in view 
of the great dimensions of oin- planet, fomi but a sort of coating. There is 
nothing to prove that below those aluminous masses which have furnished, in 
Iceland, for example, lavas so analogous to the type of the meteorites of Juvinas, 
that below our peridotic rocks to which the meteorite of Chassigny so closely 
approximates, there do not exist Iherzolithic groups in which native iron begins 
to aj:)pear; groupss that is to say, similar to the meteorites of the connnon typo; 
then, going still lower, types more and more rich in iron, of which the metei)rites 
offer us a series of increasing density, from those in which the quantity of iron 
represents nearly half the weight of the rock to the massive iron itself. 

S«me facts might, perhaps, be brought to the support of these views. Thus, 
platina, which its great density had probably placed, at the ])eginning, in profound 
regicms, has, according to ]\I. Engelhardt, been found associated with native iron. 
At all events, this last metal is allied to iron in a proportion wliich exceeds 10 
per 100, and which suffices to render it strongly magnetic. It may be added 
that if, in the Ural, platina has never been foinid in i)lace, it is oTten incrusted 
witli chromate iron, and that it has even been met with still engaged in frag- 
ments of serpentine.* By this association, therefore, this metal seems to convey 
to us a new proof of the existence of maguesian rocks of the peridotic family, at 
considerable depths. 

. ABSENCE m THE METEORITES OF STRATIFIED ROCTvS AXD OF GRANITE. 

Meteorites, so analogous to certain of our rocks, differ considerably from most 
of those which fonn the terrestrial crust. 

* G. Rose, Reise nach Ural, t. ii, p. 390. Ee Play, Complcs Rendus deV Academic dcs 
Sciences, 1846. 



340 EXPERIMENTS RELATIVE TO METEORITES. 

The most important difference consists in the fact that, in the meteorites, 
nothing has been found which resembles the materials that constitute the strati- 
fied formations — neither arenaceous rocks, nor fossiliferous rocks ; that is to say, 
nothing which testifies to the action of an ocean on these bodies any more than 
to the presence of life. 

A great difference is manifested, even when we compare the meteorites with the 
terrestrial rocks not stratified. Never has there been met with in the meteorites 
either granite, or gneiss, or any rocks of the same family which form, with these, 
the general layer on which rest the stratified formations. We do not even 
observe there any of the constituent minerals of granitic rocks — neither orthose, 
nor mica, nor quartz — any more than tourmaline and other silicates which are 
associates of those rocks. 

Thus, the silicated rocks which form the envelope of our globe are wholly 
wanting among the meteorites. It is, as has been seen above, in the deeper 
regions only that we must seek the analogues of these latter ; in those basic 
silicated rocks which only reach us in consequence of eruptions by which they 
have been expelled from their primitive repository. In every point of view, the 
absence in meteorites of the whole series of rocks which constitute, to so great a 
depth, the crust of the earth is a cu'cumstauce well calculated to arrest attention, 
whatever may be the cause. 

This absence may be explained in different ways; whether it be that the 
meteoric fragments which reach us do but proceed from the internal parts of 
planetary bodies constituted like our globe ; or whether these planetary bodies 
themselves are deficient in silicated quartziferous or acid rocks as well as in 
stratified formations, In this latter case, which is the most probable, thej' must 
have passed through evolutions less complete than the planet we inhabit ; and it 
is to the co-operation of the ocean that the earth has owed, in its origin, its gran- 
itic rocks, as it has owed to the ^ame agency, at a later period, its stratified 
deposits. 

GENERAL OBSEEVATION. 

In fine, the privilege of uhiquity pertaining to peridot, as well in our deep 
subjacent rocks as in the meteorites, is explained, as the preceding experiments 
show, by the fact that it is in some sort the universal scoria. 

It may be concluded from what precedes that oxygen, so essential to organic 
nature, must also have played an important part in the formation of the planetary 
bodies. Let us add that without oxygen we can conceive of no ocean, nor of 
any of those great functions, whether superficial or profound, of which water is 
the cause. 

We thus touch on the foundations of the history of the globe, and draw closer 
the bonds of relationship, already disclosed by the similarity of their composition, 
between the parts of the universe whose nature it is given us to know. 



APPENDIX. 

DEVELOPMENT OF THE COLLECTION OF METEORITES OF THE MUSEUM. 

For the thorough study of meteorites it was indispensable to possess a collec- 
tion in which the descents which have occurred in different countries should be 
represented in as complete a manner as possible, and in which they might be 
examined and compared with one another. For this reason it is proper to say a 
few words on the development of the principal collection of France. 



EXPERIMENTS RELATIVE TO METEORITES. 341 

Specimens of divers nieteoric flescents had already been annexed to the museum. 
With a view of develoijing tliis rising collection, I made an aj)i)eal, which has 
been lieard in Europe and in different other regions of the globe, by numerous 
persons desirous of promoting science. In 1861 the specimens, representing 53 
falls, amounted in number to SO, weighing altogether 691 kilograms. On the 
30tli of March, 1868, at which time a new and detailed catalogue was published, 
the number of falls represented, embracing the discoveries of meteorites of incon- 
testable origin but unascertained date, was 203 ; the number of the specimens 
exceeded 550, and formed a weight of 1,682 kilograms. 

This collection, arranged at first in chronological order, has recently been 
classified methodically, in confonnity with the principles of classification given 
above. 



CATALOGUE OF METEORITES IN THE MINERALOGICAL COLLECTION OP 

YALE COLLEGE. 

Stony meteorites. 



Time of fall. 



Locality. 



Weight in 
grams. 



Nov. 7,1492 

Dec. 13,1798 

Apr. 26,1803 

Dec. 14,1807 

Apr. 19,1808 

May 22,1808 

Nov. 23,1810 

July 8,1811 

Apr. 15,1812 

Aug. 5,1812 

Feb. 15,1814 

Feb. 18,1815 

Aug. 10,1818 

June 13,1819 

Nov. 30,1822 

1822-'23.. 

Feb. 10,1825 

Sept. 14,1825 

May 9,1827 

June 4,1828 

May 8,1829 

July 18,1831 

Apr. 18,1838 

June 6,1838 

Oct. 13,1838 

Feb. 13,1839 

June 12, 1841 

June 2,1843 

Mar. 25, 1843 

May 8,1846 

Feb. 25,1847 

Oct. 31,1849 

Nov. 30,1850 

Apr. 17,1851 

Jan. 22,1852 , 

Sept. 4,1852 

Mar. 6,1853 

May 13,1855 

Feb. 28,1857 , 

Mar. 26, 1859 

May 1,1860 , 

May 12,1861 

June 2,1863 

Aug. 8,1863 

Aug. 12,1864 , 

Jan. 30,1868 

Dec. 5,1868 



Ensisheim, France 

Benares, (India) 

L'Aigle, France - 

Weston, Connectiout 

Borgo San Donino, (Parma,) Italy 

Staunern, Moravia — — 

Charsonville, France — 

Berlanguillas, Spain 

Erxleben, Prussia 

Chantonuay, France 

Bachmut, Russia 

Durala, India 

Slobodka, Russia 

Jonzac, France 

Futtehpur, (Allahabad,) India 

Umballa, India ... 

Nanjemoy, Maryland .' 

Honolulu, Sandwich islands 

Nashville, (Drake Creek,) Tennessee 

Richmond, Virginia 

Forsyth, Georgia 

Vouill6, France 

Akburpur, India 

Chaudakapoor, India 

Cold-Bokkeweld, Africa 

Pino Bluff, (Little Piney,) Missouri 

Chateau-Renard, France 

Utrecht, Holland 

Bishop ville. South Carolina '-. 

Macerata, Italy 

Linn county, Iowa 

Cabarras county, (Charlotte,) North Carolina 

Shalka, Bengal ■ 

Gutersloh, Westphalia 

Yatoor, (Nellore, ) India - • 

Mezo Madaras, Hungary 

Seegowlee, Bengal 

Island of Oesel, Livonia • 

Parnallee, India ■ 

Harrison county, Kentucky 

New Concord, (Guernsey county,) Ohio 

Qutahar Bazaar, India 

Buschof, Russia 

Fillister, Russia ■ 

Nerft, Russia 

Pultusk, Poland 

Frankfort, (Franklin county,) Alabama 



CATALOGUE OF METEORITES. 

Iron meteorites. 
(With date of discovery or description. ) 



243 




1751, MaySG. 

1751 

]74'J 

I 1784 

1801 

1808, (1814)-. 

]«n 

1814 

ISI4, (1815V. 

1818 

1819 

1820 

18-27.... 

1829 

1834 

1839 

1840 

1840 

1841 

1845 

1845 

1845 

1845 

1846 

1847 

1849 

1849 

1850 

1850 

1850 

1850 

1850 

1853 

1853 

1854 

1854 

1854 

1854 

1854 

1856 

1856 

1856 

1856 

1861 

1861 

186-2 



1867. 



I860. 



Ilrascliina, (Agram,) Austria 

Bteiiibach, Saxony 

Krasnojarsk, (Pallas-iron,) Siberia 

Xiquipilco, (Toluca, ) Mexico 

Cape of Good Hope, South Africa 

Red river, Texas 

Elhocfcn, Bohemia - 

Bitburg, Eifel 

Lcuarto, Hungary 

Lockport, (Cambria,) New York 

Burliugtou, (Otsego county,) New York 

Guilford county, North Carolina 

Atacama 

Bohumilitz, Bohemia 

Claiborne county, Alabama 

Putnam county, Georgia 

Cocke county, (Sevier,) Tennessee 

Arva, (Szlanicza, ) Hungary 

Scriba, (Oswego county,) New York 

Asheville, (Black Mount.,) North Carolina 

Do Kalb countyf (Caryfort, ) Tennessee 

St. Augustine's bay, Madagascar 

Walker county, Alabama 

Carthage, (Smith county,) Tennessee 

Seelasgen, Prussia 

Pitt-sburg, Pennsylvania 

Chesterville, (Chester county,) South Carolina... 

Schwetz, Prussia 

Salt river, Kentucky 

Ruff's mountain, (Lexington co.,) North Carolina 

Seneca river, New York 

Niokarnak, West Greenland 

Lion river, South Africa 

Tazewell, (Claiborne county,) Tennessee 

Madoc, Canada West 

Octibbeha county, Mississippi 

Tucson, Arizona 

Hainholz, Westphalia — 

Orange river. South Africa ■ 

Nelson county, Kentucky 

Madison county. North Carolina 

Denton county, Texas 

Fort St. Pierre 

New.stead, Scotland — 

Robertson county, Tennessee 

Colorado river, near La Paz 

Southeast Missouri 

Dakota 

Near Chihuahua, Mexico 

Mexico, (Poinsett meteorite) 

Columbia, South America 

Arizona, (iron and olivine) 

Colorado Territory 

Franklin county, Kentucky 

Rus.sell's Gulch, Colorado 

Australia, (crust) 



3 
2 

*1, 926 

*'9i)0 

«12 

740. 000 

8 

*63 

120 

3,154 

74 > 

20 

83 

37 

74- 

*382 

*1,0S0 

* 1,237 

281 

15 

61 

7 

356 

104 

174 

253 

757 

256 

1,384 

538 

*437 

141 

40 

418 

26 

1 

158 

8 

27 

112 

45 

66 

344 

96 

115 

11 

68 

51 

57 

42 

157 

37 

120 

104 



The tot.-il nurn])er of stone falls represented is 47, of wliicU the lari2;est sjieci- 
men in the collection is one which fell at "VVeston, Connecticut, Ueceuiber ] 4, 
1807, weighing 36 J pounds, (16^ kilos.) The number of iron localities is oG; tbii 



244 CATALOGXJE OF METEORITES. 

largest iron meteorite is that from the Ked river, in Texas, found in 1808, weigh- 
in*^ 1,635 pounds, (740 kilos.) The collection also contains sev(5ral specimens 
not enumerated in the catalogue of questionable meteoric origin, sucli as the 
eilicate from Concord, New Hampshire, the iron from Hommoney creek, and 
others. The so-called native iron of Canaan, Connecticut, long since shown to 
be a furnace product, is also preserved in the museum. 

It is desired to increase the number of specimens and localities represented in 
this collection, and for this purpose persons having knowledge of specimens or 
facts connected therewith are solicited to commnnicate with Professor H. A. 
Newton or Professor G. J. Brush, who are specially interested in the investiga- 
tion of the astronomical, chemical, and mineralogical relations of these interest- 
ino" bodies. Specimens marked with an asterisk are in duplicate. 

GEO. J. BRUSH, 
Curator of tJw Mineralogical Collection qf Yale CoUege. 

Yale College, New Haven, Conn., 

Mareh 1, 1869. 



OBSERVATIONS ON THE ELECTRIC RESONANCE (BOURDONNEMENT) 

OF MOUNTAINS.* 



Bv M. Henri de Saussurk. 



[ Translated for the Smithsonian Institution. ] 



Leaving Saint-Mointz (Grisons) June 22, 1865, I made an ascension of the 
Piz Surlcy, a mountain composed of crystalline rocks, whose summit, moro or 
less conic, attains an altitude of 3,200 meters. 

During' the previous days the north wind had constantly prevailed ; on the 
22d the wind became variable, and the sky was charged with floating clouds. 
Towards midday these vapors augmented and gathered in masses above the 
highest summits, sustaining themselves, however, at such an elevation as not to 
veil most of the spires and peaks of the Engadine, on which fell soon some local 
showers. Their aspect of powdery vapors, semi-transparent, caused us to take 
them for mere squalls of snow or sleet. 

In effect, towards one in the afternoon, we were ourselves assailed by a fine 
and thin sleet, at the same time that similar squalls enveloped most of the spires of 
rock, such as the Piz Ot, Piz Julier, Piz Langard, &c., and the snowy sunmiits 
of the Bernina, while a voilent fall of rain descended on the valley of Haint- 
Moritz. 

The cold increased, and half an hour later, when we had arrived at the top of 
the Piz Surlcy, the fall of sleet becoming more abundant, we disposed ourselves 
to take a repast, and leaned our staves against a small pyramid of dry stones 
which crowns the summit of the mountain. Almost at the same instant I expe- 
rienced in the back, at the left shoulder, a piercing pain, like that whicli would 
be produced by a pin slowly driven into, the flesh, and when I applied the hand 
to the place without finding anything there, similar pain was felt in the 
right shoulder. Supposing that my linen overcoat contained pins, I threw it 
off; but, far from liniling relief, I perceived that the pains augmented, invading 
the whole back from shoulder to shoulder; they were accompanied by tickling, 
by distressing twinges, such as W'ould be produced by a wasp which was creep- 
ing over the skin and piercing me with stings. Hastily removing my second 
coat, I discovered nc>thing of a nature to wound the llesli. The pain, which 
still continued, then assumed the cliaracter of a burn. Without reflecting, I 
imagined that my woolen shirt, though I could not tell how, had taken fire, and 
I was going to throw ofl" the rest of my apparel, when our attenti(m was attracted 
by a noise which resembled the humming of large insects. This prociH-'dcMl from 
our three staves, which, inclined against the rock, were cluinting loudly, giving 
out a whistling sound analogous to that ot a kettle, the water of which is on tho 
point of entering into ebullition. All thi« may have occupied four or live niinutea. 

1 comprehended, on the instant, that my ])ainful sensatii)ns proceeded from an 
intense electrical efllux which was taking place from the summit of the mountain. 
Some extemporized experiments on our staves yielded no appearance of any 
spark nor any light appreciable by day ; they vibrated with force in the hand 

* The observations wliich follow had been communicated by correspondence to M. J. 
Fournet, who has introduced them in his notices on Electric Rri^ions, published in the 
Comptts Rcndus dc l\icad(mic dr.s Sciences, tome xliv, lS(i7. Wo give thcai hero with some 
modifications and considered in a niuru special point of view. 



346 ELECTRld EESONANCE OF MOUNTAINS. 

and gave a very distinct sound ; whether held in a vertical position, with the iron 
point above or below, ci in a horizontal one, the vibrations remained the same, 
but no sound escaped from the surface of the ground. 

The sky had become gray over its whole extent, although unequally charged 
with clouds. Some minutes afterwards I felt the hairs of my head and face 
stand on end, imparting a sensation analogous to that of a razor passed when dry 
through a stiff beard. A young Frenchman, who accompanied me, exclaimed 
that he felt a sensation in every particular hair of his incipient moustache, and that 
strong currents were issuing from the tips of his ears. On lifting my hand I 
felt currents quite as distinctly escaping from my fingers. In short, a strong 
electricity was flowing from staves, clothes, ears, hair, and from all the salient 
parts of our bodies. 

A single explosion of thunder -rt^as now heard towards the west in the distance. 
"We quitted the peak of the mountain with some precipitation, and descended 
about 100 meters. In proportion as we proceed-ed our staves vibrated less and 
less strongly, and we stopped when their sound had become so feeble as to be 
no longer perceptible except on bringing them close to the ear. The pain in the 
back had ceased with the first steps of the descent, but I still retained a certain 
vague impression of it. 

Ten minutes after the first, a second reverberation of thunder was heard to the 
west at a great distance, and these were all. No lightning was seen. Half an 
hour after wo had left the summit the sleet had ceased, the clouds broke awa}', 
and at 30 minutes after two we again reached the topmost point of the Piz 
Surley, there to find sunshine. 

We judged that the same phenomenon must have been produced on all the 
peaks formed by projecting rocks, for all, like that which we occupied, were 
enveloped in whirls of sleet, while no condensation showed itself in the rest of 
the sky ; and the great snowy summits of the Bernina, to which clung groups of 
clouds* seemed also exempt fi'om it. But, the same day, a violent storm l)urst 
upon the Bernese Alps, where an English lady was struck by lightning. On 
the horizon, divers peaks, especially the sharpest, such as the Piz Ot and the 
Piz Languard, continued to be enveloped by sleety whirls, even when the sky 
had everywhere begun to grow blue. 

I had been the witness of another case of the efflux of electricity from the summit 
of mountains when I visited, some years ago, the Nevado de Toluca, in Mexico ; 
but there the phenomenon had still more intensity, as miglit be expected, since 
it occurred under the tropics, at an altitude of about 4,500 meters. I may be 
allowed to cite here what I have elsewhere said of it.* 

In the month. of August, 1856, I made, with M, Peyrot, the ascent of the 
Nevado de Toluca ; it was in the midst of the rainy season, and there was some 
degree of imprudence in attempting the expedition at that time. We attained 
the summit without any menacing appearance of the skies, though cumuli were 
to be seen here and there, and from time to time fogs settled on the needles of 
rocks which spring aloft from the crest of the mountain. We rested on the 
border of the crater to recover our strength and enjoy for a moment the grand 
spectacle which unfolded itself at our feet. Prom the height of the edge the 
eye plunged into that immense amphitheater, whose focus, long extinct, is now 
occupied by two small lakes, towards which we were preparing to descend. A 
cold and disagreeable wind arose from this gulf, and, while we were taking a 
slight repast, we saw a thick cloud penetrate into the crater by its southeast 
notch and ascend towards us, eddying around the walls of the amphitheater. 
Presently we were enveloped in a glacial fog. Surprised by this threatening 
symptom, we saw that wo had not an instant to lose if we wished to visit the 
crater, and I commenced clambering down over the rubbish which leads to the 

* Coup (Vmil suT Vhydrologio du Mcxique, 1 part, (note. A) 



ELECTRIC EESONANCE OF MOUNTAINS. 347 

bottom of tlio abyss. But scarcely lind I renclied half way when the storm, 
bursting forth with astonishing suddenness, obliged nie to reasceud as soon as 
possible towards the })oint I had left. 

There was at first a fine rain, then small hail, driven by a violent wind. In 
a moment the mountain became white and the cold intense. The bursts of 
thunder, at first inteiTupted, soon seemed to roll without cessation and with fearful 
ci'ashes, especially when they issued from the circuit of the crater, into which 
darted, at J'requeut intervals, flashes of lightning. Without shelter in the midst 
of these naked rocks, without even a block ))ehind which to cower, nothing 
remained for us but to sit down on the earth with backs turned to the hail. After 
the lapse of some time the cold became insupportable, and the dread with which 
the tempest had inspired us drove us from the summit, though our observations 
were untinished. While we descended rapidly the rocks of the Nevado, rain 
for an instant succeeded the hail, and as we coasted a small stony ravine,* formed 
by ancient outcrops of trachyte, and where the vegetation of shrubs commences, 
the storm seemed mon:ientarily to subside. The thunder ceased or drew off to a 
distance, but we presently saw a grayish cloud advance, which enveloped us 
during its passage, and ivas accompanied tcith slcct. Immediately the hair of our 
Indian attendants was oljserved to be in agitation as if about to stand erect, and 
we experienced various electrical sensations in the beard and ears. Next a dull, 
undeiinable noise was heard, at first feeble though general, but presently stronger 
and perfectly distinct. There was a universal crepitation, as though the small 
stones of the whole mountain were clashing against one another. Our terrified 
Indians gave free vent to their superstition in words, and it cannot bo denied 
that there was something disquieting in the sounds which then prevailed in the 
mountain. This phenomenon lasted five or six minutes, and then the rain and 
thunder again commenced in full force. The storm became more suppt)rtable 
when we had descended to the upper limit of the forests, although one of those 
diluvial rains was falling which characterize the hot season imder the tropics. 

M. F. Craveri, an Italian physicist, settled at Mexico, who, before myself, had 
made au ascent of the Nevado de Toluca at the commencement of the rainy 
8eas(m, recounted to me that he had been a witness of the same facts, which he 
could not recall without an impression of terror. The electric state was still 
more violent. The traveler in question ascended the mountain May 19, 1S4£>, 
by the southeast side, starting fioni Tenango, and descended by the northwest 
blope to Toluca. The southwest side was at that season destitute of snow. The 
electric phenomenon was sudderdy brought on by a cloud arriving from the west, 
and which had perhaps taken its rise on the fields of snow of that side. Scarcely 
were the travelert* enveloped in it when they experienced the sensation which 
electricity produces, and this was almost immediately fullowed by a dtdl noise. 
They felt irregular currents of electricity at all their extremities, the fingers, the 
ears, the nose. The fear which seized th(;m in the midst of these lofty solitudes 
imj)elled them at once to commence their descent at a precipitate })acc. The 
tjiunder did not yet resound, but at the end of five minutes there fell a snow 
resembling rice, and the cloud communicating its electricity to the ground, the same 
noise arose therefrom which I have indicated above. This noise was very intense 
and seemed general in all the mountain. The long hair of the Indians became 
stiff and erect, giving to their heads an enormous magnitude. 'V\\(i sight of this 
phenomenon added to the j)anic terrors of the excursionists, who had counted iqjou 
finding nothing but pleasure in the adventure. 

The very singular noise which makes itself hoard in the rocks of the mountains 
at the moment of the electric phenomenon deserves to be studied l)y competent 
l)hysicists. It resenil)les the rattling sound which pebbles would })roduco if 

* For greater precision I iiavo mc^ilied this passaf^o, biiving written in my tormer notice: 
"lis we followed a stony valley." There -was, in iiict, but a slight depiessiou of the soil, 
vrheucc the word " valley " says too much and might bo misuuderstood. 



348 ELECTRIC RESONANCE OF MOUNTAINS. 

Btrnck against one another on being alternately attracted and repelled Ly elec- 
tricity ; but it appears to me to proceed unquestionably from a sort of crepitation or 
crackling of electricity escaping througli the asperities of the stony surface. 

A third observation of the same kind we owe to M. Craveri, who was sur- 
prised by the same meteor near the summit of Popocatepetl, September 15, 1855, 
with this difference, that the incident taking place on fields of snow, the noise 
of the crepitation of the ground was not produced. 

The following are the analogous facts which have come to my knowledge : 

In 1767 H. B. de Saussure visited the top of tlio Brevent in company with 
Pictet and Jalabert.* The travelers were there directly electrified to such an 
extent that on stretching out tlieir hands they experienced prickings at the end 
of the fingers ; the electricity escaped from them with a kind of thrilling sensation. 
Sparks, it was found, might be drawn from the button of a gold band which 
surrounded one of their hats, and also from the iron end of a mountain staff. 
These effects were attributed to a great storm-cloud which occupied the middle 
region of Mont Blanc, and which gradually extended itself above the Brevent. 
At a dozen toises below the top of that mountain the electricity was no longer 
perceived. The storm raged around iMont Blanc, but on the Brevent there fell 
only a light rain of short duration, and then the disturbance was dissipated. 
From this recital it is easy to see that the storm did not prevail upon the Brevent 
at the moment of the observation, since there was no rain falling; but that, at 
this point, the electricity discharged itself in a continuous current by the summit 
of the mountain. 

In 1863, M. Spence Watson, visiting, with some guides the Col de la Jung- 
frau, was overtaken by a hurricane, attended with hail and snow. The staves 
commenced their peculiar chant ; the expeditionists experienced sensations of 
heat in different parts of their bodies, t especially the head, and the hair stood 
erect ; a guide took off his hat, exclaiming that his head was burning ; a veil 
was kept stiff and straight in the air. Electric currents, at the same time, 
escaped at the ends of the fingers. Claps of thunder (in the distance, for no 
lightning was seen) for an instant interrupted the phenomenon. Finally, shocks 
were felt, and M. Watson had the right arm paralyzed for some minutes. This 
arm continued for several hours to l)e the seat of acute pains. | During this 
time the snow fell tvhistUng like hail.^ But what is most remarkable was the 
emission of a noise by the snow, a crackling similar to that of a brisk shower 
of hail, evidently the analogue of that which the ground of the Nevado de Toluca 
emitted in the observation above described. The phenomenon lasted 25 minutes. 
It had no unpleasant consequence, except a burning in the faces of the travelers 
as if they had been exposed to the sun on the snow. 

M. Forl)es, while crossing by St. Theodule, heard the chant of the staves, and, 
in July, 1856, M. Alizier, of Greneva, witnessed the same phenomenon near the 
summit of the Oldenhorn, when the sky was overcast and a stoma was imminent, 
which btirst forth an hour afterwards and ivas mingled ivitk hail.\\ We will not 
speak of the stonn during which Colonel Buchwalder and his aid were struck by 
lightning on the Sentis. for there the phenomenon was of a difierent order and 
falls rather within the category of the thunderbolt. 

But the nocturnal illumination of rocks pertains probably to the phenomenon 
of electric efilux from culminant peaks. M. Fournet cites, on this subject, the 
striking luminosity of the rocks of the Grands-Mulets (Mont Blanc), observed 
by M. Black wall, on the night of August 11, 1854, and which was accompanied 

* Voyage dans les Alpcs, touie, ii. 

t Tlii.s sensation of heat seems to me to be of the same kiud with the paiu which I expe- 
rienced in the back. 

t Alpine Journal, September, 186H. 

^ Probably snow resembling rice, a sleety shower. 

II See the note of M. C. M. Briquet, (Kcho dcs Alpes, 1865, No. 4.) Sur les ph6nomenes 
ileciritiues qui accompagnent les orascs d dcs grandcs altitudes, where these observations are 
collected and compared. Geneva, 18(55. 



ELECTRIC RESONANCE OF MOUNTAINS. 341) 

by sparks. On the otlier hand, the plicnomenon of electricity displayed on tho 
lakes, and on tho very dry plains of elevated plateaux, does not seem to nie of 
the same natnre. Finally, the surprising fact of the so-called galloping elec- 
tricity, conrsing over pi-airies, observed by M. Qni(]uerez, near Courtamon, may 
be regarded as a variety of lightning ; a miniature lightning, resulting from 
the fact that the electriiied cloud was grazing the earth and discliarged itself 
over the Avhole snrface by a thousand sparks, which were seen to run along the 
ground. It is probable that thes(> phenomena should be divided into several 
categories, the causes of which are not identical. Some proceed from a static 
tension, others from a series of discharges having a certain analogy to lightning. 

The phenomenon of the chani of baions or staves, in other words, the reson- 
ance or bonrclvwuwoit of the soil, constitutes still another species. It has been 
observed only on the summit of mountains or of culminant peaks ; never, as far 
as I know, on plains or at the bottom of valleys. It supposes a continuous 
dynamic action, or an efflux of the fluid towards the clouds i)y the most salient 
terrestrial conductors, sensibly different from static tensions and abrupt discharges. 

If we collate the observations which have been above indicated, we shall dis- 
tinguish therein several common features : 

1st. The efflux of electricity by the culminant rocks of mountains is produced 
under a clouded sky, charged with low clouds, enveloping the summits or passing 
at a small distance above them, but without the occurrence of electric discharges 
above the place whence the continuous efflux is proceeding. It would seem, 
therefore, that when this efflux takes place, it sufficiently relieves the electric 
tension to prevent lightning from being formed. 

2d. In all the cases observed, the summit of the mountain was enveloped by a 
shower of hail or sleet, which leads to the sui)i)osilion that the continuous efflux 
of electricity from the ground towards the clouds is not unconnected with the 
formation of the vapor and probubly also with that of the hail. 

At the Piz Surley and at the iS'evado de Toluca there fell a sleet or snow 
resembling rice, and at the pass of the Jungfrau the snow fell ichistling like hail, 
which seems to indicate that it was rather sleet which was falling than snow. 

Doubtless we should take into account the higher temperature of the valleys, 
where the hail, proceeding to melt, turns into rain; but still we do not think that 
in the particular cases which we have just indicated the phenomenon of rain 
falling in the valley and that of the sleet of the isolated mountain peaks relate 
to a condensation taking place in accordance with identical laws through tho 
whole extent of the sky. Thus, in particular, during the observation of Juno 
22, 1865, I saw on tiie horizon all the spires of I'ocks, although isolated and far 
remote from one another, enveloped by a jiowdery sleet which continued for a 
long time, while in the rest of the sky all condensation had ceased, and in the 
vallev there fell a copious shower of rain, but of very short duration. 

Moreover, the phenomenon which passed around the summits of the rocks was 
quite different from that which deluged the valleys. Around these lofty pyra- 
mids there were columns of a fine sleet of great rarity ; in the valley a heavy 
and drenching rain, such as the thin sleet of the summits would not have pro- 
duced had it been converted into water. Around the elevated projections, 
therefore, by which the electricity was flowing off, the condensation presented 
the special character of being little abundant, powdery (line sleet), and more 
persistent than in tho rest of the sky. 

The elefltric phenomenon which has been described, and which we term tho 
electric resonance of the mountains, seems not to be rare in high regions, without, 
however, being very fretpient. Among the guides and hunters whom I have 
interrogated on the subject, some had never observed it; others had heard it but 
once or twice in their lives. But it is proper to add that it is precisely on those 
days when menacing skies repel adventurers from the highest altitudes that tho 
phenomenon manifests itself. 



EXPERIMENTS ON ANEROID BAROMETERS MADE AT THE KEW 

OBSERVATORY. 



By B. Stew.\rt, LL. D., F. E. S. 



( From the Proceedings of the Royal Society, London. ) 

[The frequent use of the aneroid barometer in meteorolof^ical observations and in topo- 
p'aphical surveys in this country will render the following paper from the proceedings of the 
Royal Society of London interesting to many of the readers of the Smithsonian Report. — J. H.] 

In judging' of tlie value of an instrument, says tlie report, such as an aneroid, 
it is not the mere extent of difference between its indications and those of a 
standard barometer that ought to guide ns; but it is ratlier the constancy of its 
indications under the various circumstances to which it may be subjected, that 
determines its vahie. An aneroid may differ from a standard barometer at tlie 
ordinary pressure, and to a greater extent at other pressures ; but provided these 
differences can be well ascertained and remain constant, such an instrument ought 
to be regarded as valuable, just as much as a chronometer of known constancy, 
but of which the rate is wrong. 

The circumstances which maybe supposed to affect the indications of an aneroid 
may be classed under three heads, namely : 

1. Time. 

2. Temperature. 

3. Sudden variations of pressure. 

1. Time. — As to the influence of time, no definite experiments were made. 

2. Temperature. — A good aneroid is generally compensated by its maker fi)r 
the effects of temperature, and the question to be investigated is, to what extent 
such compensations are trustworthy. I record the results of subjecting six ane- 
roids, each four and one-half inches in diameter, made b}^ two different makers, 
to a very considerable range of temperature. 





Correction at 


No. of instrument. 


55° F. 


72° F. 


78- F. 


88° F. 


100^ F. 


2 


—.105 
—.055 
—.095 
—.106 
—.101 
—.061 


—.135 

—.090 
—.095 
—.106 
—.111 
—.061 


—.140 
—.095 
-.095 
-.111 
—.111 
—.061 


—.145 

—.095 
—.080 
—.111 
—.106 
—.061 


145 


3 


1 00 


4 


060 


5 


1 11 


6 


106 


7 


—.031 





These results are, on the Avhole, very satisfactory, and appear to show that a 
well-made compensated instrument has its indications comparatively little affected 
by a very considerable temperature cliange. It ought always to be borne in mind 
that an aneroid is not capable of being read to the same accuracy as a standard 
barometer, and that the 1-lOOth of an inch is a very small quantity. These 
temperature experiments were made at the ordinary atmospheric pressure. I am 
unable to say what effect a change of temperature would have at a diminished 
pressure. 



EXPERIMENTS ON ANEROID BAROMETERS 



351 



3. Sxiddcn changes of jircsstirc. — For the purpope of investigatiiif;^ the influence 
of sudden changes of j)ressure upon the indications of aneroids, 1 ai)])lieil to some 
of the best-known makers of these instruments for the loan of several, and through 
their courtesy in lending me a suflicient numlier, and for a sutHciently long time, 
1 have been enabled to investigate this influence at some length. In the fol- 
lowing experiments the instruments were, to begin with, susjiended vertically, at 
the usual atmospheric pressure. They were tap})ed before being read. The pres- 
sure was then lowered an inch, and the instrument allowed to remain 10 minutes 
at this pressure before being read, after having been again well tapped. The 
l)ressure was thus reduced an inch every time, being allowed to remain 10 minutes 
at each stage ; the instrument was always well tapped before being rc^ad, by 
means of an arrangement contrived for this purpose by Mr. II. Beckley. The 
exhaustion was carried downwards to 19 inches, and the iiistrument was allowed 
to remain an hour and a half at its lowest pressure; the air was then admitted aii 
inch at a time, the previous arrangement as to time and tapjiing being followed. 

Separating the. results of the experiments into tw^o sets, one comprising largo 
(four inch to four and a half inch) aneroids, and the other small instruments, wo 
find the "tnean down coiTCCtion to be as follows, each aneroid being supposed 
riffht at 29 inches: 





yO in. 


28 in. 27 in. 

i 


26 in. 


25 in. 


24 in. 


23 in. 


22 in. 


21 in. 


20 in. 


19 in. 


Mean correction of two large ane- 
i„i,l« . 


.00 
.00 


.00 +.02 
-f .01 j f.02 


+.03 

+ .03 


+ .04 


+ .04 


+ .07 
+ .09 


+ .11 
+ .12 


+ .14 

+ .17 


+.19 
+ .23 


+.25 


Mean correction for four tmall ane- 


+ .07 +.07 


+ .25 























We see from these results, says Dr. Stewart, that if aneroids, right to begin 
with, be subjected to a decrease of pressure similar to that to v»hich they were 
subjected in these experiments — 

1. That a well-constructed large aneroid will not go far wrong down to 24 
inches, but after that pressure its reading will be considerably lower than that 
of a standard biu-ometer, so that a large positive correction will have to be applied. 

2. That small aneroids are less trustworthy than large ones, and probably 
cannot be trusted below 26 inches. 

3. That if previous experiments are made upon an aneroid, we are enabled 
by this means to obtain a table of corrections which, when applied to future 
oi»servati(jns with the same instrument, will most probably present us with a much 
better result than had we not verified our instrument at all, and that by this 
means we may use our instrument down to 19 inches with very good results. 

Keadings of these instruments under increasing pressure, after remaining an 
hour and a half at the lowest reading, w'ere recorded. 

The mean coiTections for up readings are exhibited in the following table, 
each aneroid being supposed right at 19 inches: 



For two largo aneroidg 

For foui Binall aneroids 



19 in. 



.00 
.00 



20 in. 



+.03 
.00 



21 in. 22 in. 



+ .03 
+.01 



+ .03 

+.02 



23 in. 



+.03 
—.01 



24 in. 25 in 



+.02 
—.01 



+ .01 
—.02 



26 in. 



.00 
-.04 



27 in. 



—.03 
—.07 



28 in. 



29 in. 



—.06 
—.10 



-.08 
—.15 



30 in. 



—.11 
—.16 



We may learn from these results, says Dr. Stewart, that if aneroids which have 
been sulij<'cted for at least one hour and a half to the lowest pressures which they 
register, liave the pressure increased by means of the gradual introduction of air 
into the receiver, after the manner already described — 

1 . That a well-constructed large aneroid will not go far wrong for about 8 inches 
above the lowest preesure. 



352 



MADE AT THE KEW OBSERVATORY. 



2. That in tliis respect small aneroids are somewhat less trustworthy than large 
ones. 

3. That if the instrument read he previously tested and its coiTections ascer- 
tained, we may consider it trustworthy (making use of these corrections) for up 
readings throughout a greater range than if it had not been so tested. 

I come now to consider whether a rapid change of pressure affects an aneroid 
after the experiment has been completed. 

The following table will exhil;)it the results obtained in this direction : 



Correction before experiment 

Immediately after experiment 

Eigliteen hours after experiment .. 
Forty-ciglit hours after experiment 

Three days after experiment 

Three weeks after experiment 



Aneroid No. 



—.12 
+ .03 
—.0.3 
—.04 
-.05 
—.10 



—.12 

+.06 

'— .OS 
—.11 



—.04 
+.06 
—.01 



—.01 
—.07 



16. 



—.05 
+ .04 
+ .01 



—.01 
—.06 



It thus appears that if an instrument reads correctly before it is put into the 
receiver it will read too low immediately afterwards, and that it may be some 
considerable time before it recovers its previous reading. The instrument cannot, 
therefore, be safely trusted for absolute determinations if it has been recently 
exposed to rapid changes of pressure. 

The experiments hitherto recorded, in which an inch of pressure has been taken 
away or added every 10 minutes, are perhaps analogous to ascents in a balloon, 
or descents from a mountain; they are not, however, precisely analogous to moun- 
tain ascents, since a longer time than 10 minutes is usually taken to produce a 
change of pressure equal to one inch. 

At the suggesticm of Mr. Charles Brooke, a couple of aneroids were tested in 
April, 1868, with the view of rendering the experiment more analogous to a 
mountain ascent. 

The pressure was reduced by half an inch at a time, and at intervals of 30 
minutes, the aneroids being well tapped. 

The following corrections were obtained for down readings, (instruments sup- 
posed right at 30 inches :) 



At 


No. 8. 


No. 9. 


A. 


No. 8. 


No. 9. 


Inches. 






Inches. 






30 


.00 


.00 


24 


+.05 


—.01 


29.5 


.00 


—.03 


23.5 


+.08 


—.02 


29 


.00 


—.04 


23 


+.11 


—.03 


28.5 


.00 


—.03 


22.5 


+.13 


—.01 


28 


.00 


—.03 


^ 


+.14 


.00 


27.5 


.00 


—.02 


21.5 


+.16 


+.02 


27 







21 


+.17 


+.04 


26.5 


.00 


-.02 


20.5 


+.20 


+.06 


26 


-f.Ol 


—.02 


20 


+.22 


+.07 


25.5 


+.04 


—.02 


19.5 


+.25 


+.09 


25 


-f-.05 


—.04 


19 


+.27 


+ 11 


24.5 


4-. 06 


—.02 









These results, when compared with the previous determinations for these same 
instruments, would seem to show that a somewhat better result is obtained when 
the exhaustion is carried on more slowly, and hence that the corrections depend, 
to a considerable extent, on the nature of the treatment received. 



EXPERIMENTS ON ANEROID BAROMETERS, ETC. 353 

From all these cspcrimonts, Dr. Stewart concludes as follows : 

A £;oo(l aneroid of large size may be corrected for temperature by an optician, 
BO that the residual correction shall l>e very small. 

If an aneroid, correct to conuuence witli, be used for a balloon or mountain 
ascent, it will be tolerably correct for a decrease of about six inches of pressure. 

A hirge aneroid is more likely to be correct than a small one. 

The range of correctness of an instrument used for mountain ascents may be 
increased by a previous -verification, a table of corrections being thus obtained. 

If an aneroid has remained some time at the top of a mountain, and be sup- 
posed correct to start -with, then it will p;ive good results for about eight inches 
of increase of pressure. 

A large aneroid is more likely to be correct than a small one 

If the aneroid has been previously verilied, it is likely to give a better result. 

After being subjected to sudden changes of pressure, the zero of an aneroid 
gradually changes, so that under such circumstances it ought only to be used as 
a dillerential and not as an absolute instrument, that is to sa}', used to determine 
the distauce ascended, making it correct to begin with, or to ascertain the dis- 
tance descended, making it correct to begin with, it being understood that the 
instrument caught to be quiescent for some time before the change of pressure is 
made. 

[I have subjected many aneroids to the test of a sudden diminution of pressure 
under the receivers of an air-pump, but have never found one of which the index 
would retiu-n to the same point when the original pressure was restored. I have 
not, however, had recourse to tapping, which Mr. Stewart has found essential. 
The instrument in its present condition cannot be relied on to indicati^; absolute 
pressure, though it ma}' be used in many cases with good eflcct in determining 
diflerences of pressure of limited extent. — J. H.J 



23 S 



ANNIVERSARY ADDRESS. 

OF THE 

PRESIDENT OF THE ROYAL SOCIETY OF VICTORIA. 



By R. L. J. Ellery.* 



Gentlemen of the Royal Society of Victoria : For the third time it 
devolves tipon me as your President to deliver the annual address on this occasion, 
inaugurating our 13th session. 

The honor you have thus conferred upon me was, I confess, an unexpected 
one; I beg, however, to assure you most earnestly thati am fully sensible of tho 
distinction implied in your trust, and no less of the responsibility which it entails. 

On similar occasions it has been our custom to review the society's operations 
during the previous session, touching, also, on the scientific progress of our public 
scientific institutions during the past year. Adopting our usual plan, I now pro- 
pose to briefly review, first, tho contributions laid before you at your various 
meetings during your last session, following this by a general survey of the yeai-'s 
history of our scientific departments, and concluding with a brief notice of one or 
two of the more salient points of scientific discovery belonging to the year 1 8G7 ; for 
the scientific institutions of the colony derive so much strength and direction from 
the work done at the older centres of learning that no review of our progress is, 
I conceive, adequately represented without some reference to the general progress 
of hmnan knowledge. 

If, in referring to the work of our past session, I appear to dwell unduly upon 
some of the subjects which have occupied your attention, I ask you to fi)llow me 
in regarding them as of mf»re than usual interest and importance, and on that 
account claiming a more detailed consideration. 

During our last session we held 11 ordinary meetings. The papers and the 
discussions following the reading of them were generally of great interest and 
importance, doubtless aiding us in our advance in the departments of knowledge 
to which they belong. By the indefatigable zeal of your honorary secretary, 
Mr. Thomas H. Eawlings, the whole of the last year's transactions have been 
printed, and were placed in your hands shortly after the close of the year, and 
also distributed to the various learned societies with which we are in communi- 
cation. 

Of the contributions laid before j^ou, two pertain to physical science, three to 
the natural history of Australia, three to the develo])mcnt of our nattu'al resources, 
two to pathological science, four to the geology, mineralogy, and palseontology 
of Australia and New Zealand, one to social science, and two to applied chemistry. 

I will first refer to the Rev. J. E. Tenison Wood's paper '' On the Glacial 
Period of Australia," in which he gives his reasons for concbiding that " during 
the glacial period of Europe our continent and seas have passed through a sub- 
tropical climate," or at least a much warmer orie than we now experience. lie 
stated, as you well remember, tliat he did not base liis opinion u]ion tlie absence 
of those groovings and striations left by the mighty slip of glaciers and icebergs — 
for in the northern hemisphere these are not found lower than the 40th parallel 

* From the Transactions of the Eoyal Society of Victoria, part 1, vol. 9, July, 1868. 



THE ROYAL SOCIETY OF VICTORIA. 355 

of latittulc — Itut rather upon the subtropical character f)f our tertiary fauna. He 
coucliiiU'd his paper by sayinu;', " A true glacial epoch in New Zealand would be 
a puzzling' ftict, and veij dillicult to reconcile with what we see in Australia," 
and stating hiri belief that the Australian continent is now passing through a 
colder period than any of which Ave can Jind evidence in its previ(tiis geological 
history. On the same subject, and discussing these views, Dr. Ilaast, an hono- 
rary member of this society and geologist to the province of Canterbury, New 
Zealand, contributed a paper which was read at the October meeting. Referring 
to Mr. Wood's paper, he stated that he had traced glacial action over the whole 
If^ngth and breadth of the south island of New Zealand ; he does not accept 
]^Ir. Wood's conclusion with respect to the non-existetice of evidence indicative 
of our continent having passed through a glacial ])eriod, and ])oints out that if 
geologists want to find traces of this epoch tliey nuist look for it in the Australian 
alps, where morainic accumulation may have been preserved around the lakes; 
but from the small altitude of this chain he expects these will be of small extent 
and dimensions. 

Jlr. Thompson read a paper '* On the Formation of Jilineral Veins and the 
Deposit of Metallic Ores and ]\Ietals in them," at oiu- Octol)er meeting. In the 
present stage of our knowledge of geological changes, the mode of occurrence 
of njinerals in veins, and the formation of the latter, present almost insuperable 
difficulties to the clear comprehension of them. This subject, although it has 
taxed the energies of Hopkins, BischofT, and other superior minds, may be con- 
sidered as still unsolved. In Mr. Thompson's paper, his conclusions are based 
upon observations of particular cases, and are thus preferable to geological con- 
ceptions of a purely speculative character. 

i'rofessor McCoy, at the February meeting, announced the discovery in Aus- 
tralia of EnaJlosauria and other cretaceous fossils, thus establishing the fact — of 
iiumense geological impoilance — of the existence of the cretaceous period on the 
Australian c-ontiuent. 

A description of a fine specimen of rubellite or red tourmalin, found for the 
fust time in Victoria in a mine at Maldon, was read by the liev. Dr. Bleasdale, 
at our July meeting. 

An account of some bone-caves at Glenorchy, in Tasmania, contributed h\ Mr. 
Wintle, of llobart Town, was also read on the same evening. 

Turning to the papers liaviug reference to natural history. At the first meeting 
of the session Professor McCoy described three new species of Victorian birds, 
and at the .September meeting he contributed a paper " On the species of Wom- 
bats," in which he showed us that until very recently only one species of wombat 
was known to zoologists, the Pliascolomys wombat, but that the existence of four 
species, which he descril)ed, may now be considered as demonstrated. 

At the meeting in May an elaborate paper " On the Australian Coleoptera" 
was presented to the society by that renowned naturalist. Count de Oastlenan. 
It contains (h.'scriptions of a large number of new Australian beetles, and forms 
a most valuable contribution to entomological science. 

Of the two paj^MS which 1 have classed as pertaining to physical science, one 
was read at the February meeting by Mr. G. AV. Groves, and was entitled ''Con- 
tributions to Meteorology." The other was a des(;)ipti(m of a new self-registering 
electrometer, which 1 had the honor of reading at the last meeting of the session. 
This d<'S( ri])ti<»n referred to an a])paratus I had devised and erected at the obser- 
vatory for the purj)ose of obtaining a continuous record, by the help ot ])l)olo- 
grajihy, of the force and variations of atuiospherio electricity. Specimens of tiie 
jihotographic curves it produced were also exhibited. You will be glad ti> hear 
that alter exj)erience of its performance we have every reason to consider it a 
most useful addition to the meteorological appliances of the observatory. 

Some valuable contributions, bearing on the development of our natural 
resources, were read at the April, May, and October meetings, the first of which 



356 THE^ROYAL SOCIETY OF VICTORIA. 

is " On the Manufacture of Paper from JN'ative Plants," by Mr. Newbeiy, in 
vvhicli lie drew our attention to the importance to be attached to the discovery of 
raw material suited to paper-making', and pointed out that we had several indi- 
genous plants fitted for this ]ini'pose growing in considerable profusion on our 
waste lands ; he especially called attention to two grasses, the Xerofes langi- 
folia and a variety of Lepiclospcrmaj the fibre of both of which he believed would 
be of great value for making common paper, and for mixing Avith rags for white 
paper. Mr. Newbery's valuable suggestion will, no doubt, be practically tested 
so soon as the new paper mills on the Yara commence operations. 

The second communication of this class was a paper " On Colonial Wines," 
by the Rev. Mr. Bleasdalt. This placed before you a large amount of practical 
information respecting our vineyards and the wines produced from them. He 
gave the results of his chemical inquiries into several samples, and indicated the 
conditions on which he considered the success of Australian wine-making to 
depend. 

]\Ir. Newbery's paper " On the Analysis of our Mineral Waters" forms another 
contribution bearing on our natural resources. The writer gives the analysis he 
has made of the waters from several of our quartz mines remarkable for con- 
taining a large percentage of chloride of potassiimi, as well as of the Ballan 
springs, the latter found to contain a large percentage of carbonate of soda, 
with carbonate of lime and magnesia, with 416 cubic inches per gallon of free 
carbonic acid. This w.ater, as yon are aware, has now come into extensive use 
under the name of " Ballan Seltzer Water ;" it forms a very refreshing and 
pleasant beverage, and may, no doubt, be medicinally useful in some cases. 

At the June meeting Professor Halford brought before us his paper " On the 
Appearances of the Blond after Death by Snake Poisoning." At the October 
meeting, also, he contributed some further observations on the same subject. 

You will lemember that in April last, a gentleman died in Melbourne from th« 
bite of a cobra-di-capella, which he had brought from India, and thouglit to be 
fangless. At the post mortem examination Professor Ilalford, remarking the 
great fluidity of the blood, examined some under the microscope, when it appeared 
to him to contain a great number of colorless cells of a larger size than any 
usually seen in l)lood. Further examination corrol.>orated this fact ; he observed 
numerous cells much larger than blood corpuscles, with delicate translucent cell- 
walls, each cell containing one, two, or more nuclei, and also noted a peculiar 
macula or nipple on the cell wall after the application of magenta dye. lie 
killed a dog with poison taken from the glands of the same cobra, and other 
animals with poison taken from Australian snakes, and after death in every case 
the blood was found fluid and full of these cells. By later observations he was 
led to believe that the growth of these cells commences immediately the poison 
gets into the blood, and continues to grow even after death ; so tliat 12 hours 
after death blood taken from an animal that died from the poison in 10 minutes 
will be in the same stage as regards the cell growth as that taken one hour after 
death from an animal that sinvived the poison 11 hours. 

Considering the importance of this subject, I make no apology for troubling 
you with a succinct account of my personal experience concerning Professor 
Halford's discovery. Some little time since I had, in company with a friend, a 
good observer with the microscope, an opportunity of witnessing the progress of 
this cell growth. A dog bitten by an Australian tiger snake at 9 a. m. died in 
an hour; at 3 o'clock some l)lood taken from a vein was dark and (piite fluid. 
Under the microscope the red and white corpuscles appeared normal in size and 
shape, l)ut were moving about free in the fluid liquor sungainis, and not sticking 
together in rouleaus, as is usual with healthy blood. Among these corpuscles 
we observed spaces where some apparently structureless granular matter had 
pushed them aside. An hour after a fresh supply of blood from another veiu 
showed us, among what appeared to be the same kind of granular matter, large 



THE ROYAL SOCIETY OF VICTORIA. 857 

nnclcntcd cells, Avliich we estimated to be from three to fom- times tlic diameter of 
the ordinary red corpuscle ; these cells, whose walls were so delicate and transhicent 
that it re<]tiired most careful management of the light for their deiinition, con- 
tained nuclei, some one, many with two, three, or even more ; delicate as they 
Avere, however, they became as distinct as the ordinary red corpuscle by the 
application of a little magenta dye, which did not seem to alter their dimensions 
in the least by osmotic action. In many of these cells, also, the little macula 
on the cell wall was observed, but not on all. In blood taken from the jugular 
vein 24 hours after death we observed these cells, now appearing more tense, in 
immense numbers, and many of the nuclei floating about free, as well as a great 
(piantity of transparent acicular crystals, which magenta dye rendered very di- 
stinct. 

Tlie existence of cells in the blood of the individual who died from the cobra's 
poison different from those found in cases of i)ya'mia, leucft-ytha'mia, and other 
diseases, was warndy contested in this society, and you will remembi'r the ani- 
mated discussions we had on the subject ; but those who have carefully observed 
the blood in snake-poisoned individuals cannot, I should imagine, be in the least 
doubt as to the fact of the presence of these cells. ^My friend and I were very 
sceptical on this point, and at first failed to see them, but afterwards we felt no 
longer anj'^ question in our minds either as to their presence or to their size bein^ 
greater than that of any cells in the blood we had ever witnessed or seen de- 
bciibed. 

Whether this particular cell growth is peculiar to snake-poisoned blood, or 
whether it may be found in the blood after death from other causes, especiary 
in cases where the blood remains fluid, is a question not yet deterniine<l, but one 
thcvt still occupies Professor Ilalford's attention, and one to which he invites the 
general attention of microscopists as well worthy of a searching inquiry. He 
tells us that in most careful ol)servations, repeated very many times, he traces 
the growth of the cell out of the germinal matter before alluded to; that first 
the nucleus appears, then the cell walL This, if established, is an important 
j>oint, and one upon which many of our greatest physiologists are not agreed. 
Kolliker and Virchow holding the view that all cell growth proceeds from pre- 
existing cells, while Schleiden and Schwann believed they always grew out of 
structureless granular niattisr ; 13eale, a later authority, working with higher 
microscopic powers, leans also to this latter view. 

Professor Ilalford considers that snake poison acts as a kind of ferment in the 
blood, and that the oxygen which is required to keep it in a condition to support 
vitality is used up by the cell growth, thereby causing the death of the bitten indi- 
viduaf. After death we find the daik fluid bhjod rapidly aVtsorbs oxygen when 
exposed to the air, and Itecomes l»right in color ; the iibrine has also disappeared, 
or at all events has l)LCome so lar degraded Ity some molecular change as to be 
no longer f^oagulable. 

Although we may regard these investigations as of the highest imjiortance, not 
only in tlieir direct leference-to the questicm of snake ])oisoning and animal j)oisons 
generally, as well as U) that cell growth and tin; study of the chemistry and 
])hysiology of the blood, yet it uiustbe coiijessi'd that the great (piestion of saving 
IVoni deatli those liitteu liy snakes is still an inisolved problem ; the light thrown 
upon the whole subject, however, appears to indicate a path by which the rational 
treatment of these cast s may be arrived at,, Uut little, after all, is known of the 
functions of the blood or of its connection with nutiition of the tissues and vital 
force, or of its intricate, chemical, and physical changes in disease; and it is 
from inquiries of this kind, jjliilosophicalfy conducted, that we nnist look for 
progress in this most diflicult, and at present obscure, branch of hunnin knowl- 
edge. Such intjuiries, however, for their successful pursuit, api)ear to recpiire not 
only a knowledge of physiology and pathology, but of the highest chemistry 
and' physics generally, a rare combination to be met with in one individual ; and 



358 THE ROYAL SOCIETY OF VICTORIA. 

it sng'g'ests at once that scientific progress in the treatment of disease will come 
but slowly, until natural philosophy and chemistry, especially in its dynamical 
aspect, form as large a part of a medical student's training as even anatomy itself, 
Mr. Rusden's paper " On the Ethics of Opinion," was read at the September 
meeting ; it treated of how far men are properly liable to blame or praise, reward 
or punishment, for their thoughts or actions. The novelty of character of this . 
contribution may have given rise to an impression that it was not exactly of a 
nature included within the olijects of the society ; very little consideration must, 
however, show that any attempt to contribute to social improvement, so long as 
it is regarded in its scientific aspect, may be fairly considered to gome within the 
scope of this society. 

" The Danger of Collision between Vessels crossing one another's Tracks," 
was the title of a communication from Captain Peny, read to you at the Novem- 
ber meeting. In thts paper a very simple method of procedure to be adopted by 
approaching vessels was suggested by the writer, by which danger of collision 
might, in nearly all cases, be avoided. The plan suggested consists in the 
approaching ships ascertaining' if the same relative bearings between them con- 
tinues to be maintained, and if so, to alter their course ; for, as was demonstrated 
by a simple diagram, collision becomes inevitable if the same bearing is main- 
tained. So simple a mode of even lessening the probability of collisions, if not 
already generally adopted by nautical men, should be well noted. 

At the same meeting a paper " On the Purification of Water," was presented by 
Mr. Dahlke. This related to a method of filtration devised by the writer, by 
which organic and most mineral impurities, including the salts of lead, were 
removed from drinking water ; brackislmess, also, by a judicious arrangement 
of this filtering medium, he stated might be removed to a considerable extent. 
He exhibited a filter that he had constnicted which was partly tested in your 
presence; the further testing of its properties you will remember was referred to 
Mr. Newbery, who reported at the next meeting that the filter not only did all that 
Mr. Dalhke had stated, but he found it to possess powers of filtration beyond 
anything he had previously known ; he had tried it very severely hy filtering 
solutions of salt, sulphate of magnesia, and, even sulphate of ammonii'nn with it, 
and in every case the filtrate passed out as drinkable water, with barely traces 
of the substance previously in solution. Passing h(>t water in a reverse way 
through the filter removed the suspended salts and restored the activity of the 
filtering medium, Avhich, after continued use, was diminished. 

Some experiments were since tiied on the filtration of sea-water by Mr. Dahlke, 
and I believe he is now engaged in the constnrction of a large filter for rendering 
brackish water fit for sheep and cattle at some station on the Darling river. There 
is no doubt that the kind of filter exhibited is exceedingly succesfnl as an ordi- 
nary domestic filter, but whether it will become practically successful in so remar- 
kable a use as that of removina- salt from sea or very brackish watere is not vet 
demonstrated. 

I congratulate you upon these residts of your past session, and I regard them 
as an evidence of increasing activity and an earnest of advancement in the olyects 
of this society. 

You will be glad to learn that our intercourse with kindred societies has 
increased ; thereare now 86 learned bodies with which we are in communication 
and interchange of publications; 41. of these are Ijritish, 36 continental Euro- 
pean, 5 American, 2 Asiatic, and 5 colonial. Our librar}- has been consideralily 
increased l)y donations from these societies, and a coni})lete catalogue, compiled 
by your honorary librarian. Dr. Neilcl, is appended to the second part of the last 
volume of our transactions. 

I would now revert to the year's history and present state of oiu- public scien- 
tific departments, and in doing so, if I speak at more length of matters concerning 
our observatory than of the other institutions, it is only because I am better acquain- 
ted with the details of its progress. 



THE ROYAL SOCIETY OF VICTORIA. 359 

In my last address I told yon tliat the Great Sontliern Telescope, wliicli, by- 
tlie-bv, is now to be styled the Great 2lclhounie Telescope^ was ap[)roacliiu£;- com- 
pletion, and its arrival miglit be expected in the course of a few months. It has, 
however, not yet reached us. Several ludookcd for delays in its construction 
occurred, principally owinij' to the determination on tlic part of the manufacturer, 
Mr. Grubl), that nothing but the very highest excellence in all its parts should 
go to its construction. 

Many of you, no doubt, read the interesting letter of Dr. Robinson, of Armagh, 
■which appeared in the daily papers a week ortwo since, respecting his inspection 
and trial of this great instrument, and that he passes a high eulogium on the 
excellence (»f its mechanical details, as well as of its optical powers, so far as he 
was enabled to judge from the impei'fect trial he had with it in this respect. We 
are expecting every mail to hear of its shijiment, and there appears to be every 
probability of its being even now on its way. M. Lc Sueur, a gentleman selected by 
the conunittee as an ot)server for this telescope, comes out with it, and will occupy 
the position of second assistant astronomer at the observatory. Of this gentle- 
nuin's high qualifications for the work before him we have the best testimony. 
You are aware, no doul)t, that ap])aratus for celestial photography and spectrum 
analysis of the light of the heavenly bodies will form part of the appliances of 
thisgiganticinstriunent,and I trust that Dr. liobinson's hope '' that an inestimable 
harvest of discovery and triumph will crown this magnificent enterprise " will be 
fully realized. I have obtained a few photographs of a lithograph of the Great 
Melbourne Telescope, which will be handed to you at the conclusion of thia 
address. 

It .appears that some kind of a building with movable roof will bo necessary 
to protect it from the great damage likely to arise if exposed to the dust-storma 
we are liable to ; it is therefore proposed to erect a circular building, with a 
revolving roof, and Parliament will be asked for a vote for this purpose. A 
small extension of the observatory ground has been granted, thus enabling the 
telescope Ut be erected in a position where it will command a full view of the 
Leavens without creating any disturbance on our magnetic instruments by its 
too close j)roximity. 

You will remember that in my last address I mentioned that a complete set of 
self-registering magnetic instrumenlsor magnetograjdis (similar to those used at; 
Kew) were expected to arrive shortly. These duly arrived ; they have been 
erected and at work since November last, producing an uninterrupted photographic 
record of all changes of the forces of terrestrial magnetism. 

A wet and dry bull> thermometer and barometer, continuously self-registering, 
on the same principle, are now being constructed for us, and will probably beat 
work in the course of a few months. The results likely to be obtained from the 
adoption of self-registering instrument*^ of this kind can scarcely be too highly 
estimated, for the periodic method of observing phenomena that are changing 
continuously could never satisfactorily admit of those close deductions being made 
requisite to derive any practical value from the observations. Variations of the 
forces measm-ed suflicient to establish or overthrow a supposed law may, and 
doubtless do, often hapjien in tlie intervals between intermittent observation, 
which, by the plmtographic or other self-registering method, is indelibly recorded 
with true; relations to preceding and following variations. 

The Melbourne portion of the survey of the southern heavens has made con- 
siderable progress ; the ))ortion of the heavens lying between the JoO" 40' and 
l;Kd° ■!(/ parallels of declination have been thoroughly siuveyed, and the i)osi- 
tioiis of 19,000 stars established. 

A scries of observations for the determination of the difierenco of longitude 
between iMelliourne and Adelaide, by aid of the electric telegraph, was made at 
the latter part of last year, and although the result is considered not (piite conclusive, 
as it is intended to make anotherseries ofcomparisons, itmay however be accepted 



360 THE EOYAL SOCIETY OF VICTORIA. 

as nearly the truth, and makes the difference of longitude 25m. 33.78s. Assuming' 
the longitude of Melbourne to be correct, that of Adelaide would be 9h. 14m. 
21.02s. 

Before leaving the subject of our astronomical labors I would add a word con- 
ceniing the total eclipse of the sun, which will take place on the 17th of August, 
this year. 

The eclipse will be a most remarkable one, and unrivalled by any recorded in 
the annals of mankind in its magnitude and duration. At its commencement 
the moon will bo unusually near the earth, and at the same time reaches the 
ascendingnode of her orbit. The sun also reaches nearly the zenith of those places 
where the eclipse takes place at noon ; the augmentation of the moon's apparent 
diameter, due to her altitude, is a maximum ; a combination of circumstances 
resulting in the apparent diameter of the moon exceeding that of the sun by an 
miusual amount, and in the time during which the sun Avill remain eclipsed, being 
almost unprecedented. 

The greatest length of totality will occur in longitude 102° 38' E. and 10° 28' 
N. in the Gulf of Siam, where it lasts 6m. 50s. The path of totality, which 
commences at sunrise in Abyssinia, passes over the Straits of Babel Mandeb, 
Aden, Arabia, through India between Goa and Rajaiioor, across the Gulf of 
Siam, where the greatest phase occurs, then through Borneo, the whole of the 
south of New Guinea, ending at sunset about the New Hebrides. 

So unusual an eclipse as this is sufficient to put astronomers on the qui vive, 
for such an one has probably never been seen by man, and none of such magni- 
tude is likely ever to l>e witnessed by any now living. But there are, however, 
higher objects than this in view, and great preparations are being made to carry 
out investigations concerning the sun's atmosphere, which can only be attempted 
during total eclipses, and for which this f)ne offers so long a period of totality. 
It has long been supposed that an atmosphere surrounds the sun's exterior to the 
photosphere. Those remarkable red clouds or prominences and the corona or 
glory with its projections, generally seen in total eclipses, and especially in that 
of 1860, all point to this. These luminous clouds were found by Mr. Do la Rue 
to have great photographic power, and ]\[r. Braylc}' concludes therefrom that 
they probably consist of" incandescent globules of metal in a licjuid state, or per- 
haps of solid particles of the metals discovered in the sun by Kirchoff. The 
optical means of analyzing the light from various sources have been so much 
improved since the last total eclipse Avitnessed by astronomers in 1860, and our 
increased knowledge of the physical conditions of the sun, as well as of many other 
of the heavenly bodies, induces the scientific w'orld to confidently hope that the 
telescope, spectroscope, and heliograph will reap rich harvests in the hands of 
the many experienced ol)servers who will be engaged in the path of totality. 

The botanical department, so efficiently conducted liy your fellow-member, 
Dr. F. Mueller, has not been idle. The " Fragmenta Phytographa Australis," I 
am informed, will have reached the completion of the sixth volume next month. 
Dr. Bentham's new work on the Australian flora (to which Dr. Mueller contributes 
largely) is progressing rapidly ; the fourth volume containing the Candollian 
division — corollifloraj — is nearly complete ; the fifth volume, which it is expected 
will be issued next year, will contain the monochlamydese ; and it is intended to 
follow it up by a sixth volume, containing the monocotyledons and ferns. A 
supplementary volume will afterwards be probably issued, to comprise the newer 
discoveries among cotyledonous plants, for which the '' Fragmenta " will aftbrd 
the principal records. This book will be the most complete descriptive work on 
the vegetation of Australia, and with which, in its completeness, no similar work 
on European vegetation can compare. You will be glad to leara that the cinchona 
(Peruvian l)ark) plants are prospering. Dr. Mueller informs me they have been 
exposed to extremes of temperature varj-ing from 30° Falir. last winter, to 100° 
Fahr. during this summer, in an artificial fern gulley in the gardens without injury ; 



THE ROYAL SOCIETY OF VICTORIA, 361 

tins gives ample testimony of tlicir lianliliood, and tlioir fitness for copinij with 
the much smaller vicissitudes they would be liable to in the sheltered gullies of 
our mountain ranges. The establishment of this most vahuible ])lant is of tho 
utmost importance, and in a commercial point of view can scarcely be overesti- 
mated. There are now in the garden nurseries a large number of phuits of cork 
oaks, western Australian mahogany, tea, tobacco, coll'ee, and other prominently 
useful plants, ready for planting in the valleys of the Upper Yarra this autumn. 

Dr. Mueller made a botanical visit to western Australia during hist year, and 
he informs nic his principal object was to connect the observations of the flora of 
that colony with geological formations in continuation of the many facts he had 
traced out in other parts of Australia. An investigation of the mutual relations 
existing between vegetation and geological formations is of great importance as 
bearing on the general question of the occupation of the soil for various pui-poses 
of culture. 

The phyto-chemical laboratory, under Dr. Mueller's direction, is still engaged 
in researches into the technological, medicinal, and other properties of the Austra- 
lian vegetation, and especially as regards the amount of potash in our trees, which 
he states has already alibrded highly satisfactory results. The question of the 
yield of iodine and l)romine in our large sea- weeds is also occupying the attention 
of this branch of the botanical department. 

Our national museum, under the management of Professor JfcCoy, continues 
to increase in its usefulness. It was highly praised by the naturalists and officers 
of the Italian scientific expedition, who visited us in the IMagenta and wlio wca-o 
fresh from the study of the l)est zoological collections in Europe. Our member, 
Mr. Ulricli, too, who has just returned from an inspection of the principal mining 
schools of Europe, finds them exceeded by the mining section of our museum, 
prepared by Professor IMcCoy with the object of facilitating the establishment of 
a school of mines in the colony by taking advantage of the proximity of the 
national museum to the university, in wdiich eight out of the ten courses of lectures 
required are already given. The natural history specimens, mounted eight or ten 
years ago, stillmaiutain their freshness and state of preservation, which is, no doubt, 
in a great measure attributable to the fact tliat the museum is surrounded by tho 
well-i)lanted university grounds, where it is free from the destructive influence of 
dust and smoke. Various classes of the university students make daily use of 
the ditierent sections of the museum, while the number of tho general })ublic who 
visited this institution during the year anudinted to 68,000. 

Among the most interesting colonial specimens adde(l during the year is tho 
great skeleton of a new species of whalebone whale {J'/ii/sahis Grayi^ ]\[cCov,) 
which is now beautifully articulated and jihu^ed outside the west wall of the 
museum. This specimen is 90 feet long. Kext to this in interest are the further 
donations of Mr. Carson, of Enaliosaurian fossil reptiles from the Eliiulers, to bo 
described in our proceedings as bearing out the views already laid before this 
society concerjiing the occurrence of these fossils in Australia. A very large 
iron meteorite, fntm Cranbourne, weighing 3,000 pounds, has been placed in the 
museum, which Professor McCoy promises to describe to us at an early meeting. 
Considerable additions, illustrative of foreign natural history, have been made, 
and the conchological collection, which is of great extent, is now almost com- 
pletely named. 

The geological collection is also largely increased, as well as that of the different 
Artkidata; but it appears that then^ is no more room at present in the half of tho 
uniseuin already built for their disphiy. 

From the rejtort of tlie goveniment geologist, ]\rr. Selwyn, just published, we 
are put in possession of the progress made in the geological !-«irvey of the colony- 
It ai)iH'ars that 55 quarto sheets, each of which contains the geological features 
of 54 square miles, have already been puldished, and that 11 are ready for the 
engraver. A collection of 1,248 geological specimens has been arranged and 



362 THE EOYAL SOCIETY OF VICTORIA. 

labelled for the national museum. Besides the strategrapliical arrangement of 
these specimens, each is labelled with numbers and letters, indicating its locality 
and the map to which it belongs. Considerable additions to the geological 
sketch-map of the colony have also been made b}^ the director from his recon- 
noissance surveys in various districts. The department, however, has been singu- 
larly crippled during the past year, owing to the absence of some of the officers 
on leave, and the sickness of others. The survey has, nevertheless, made con- 
siderable progress, especially in the districts of south Ballarat and north of Cres- 
wick and Clunes. It appears that a party has been engaged in the first-named 
locality on a research into the course and limits of " deep leads " of the Ballarat 
gold-field, which has already ]'esulted in Mr. Murray, the gentleman engaged iu 
this portion of the survey, being enabled to indicate the existence of payable 
gold deposits in a locality where, though frequently traversed by miners, no 
W'orkings had been established. 

In contemj)lating the more interesting facts that have marked the progress of 
science in Europe, our attention is attracted by a recent discovery of paramount 
significance. 

In the spectra of many of the fixed stars the lines proper to hydrogen have 
been ftbserved, and in the outburst of the light of the star T-Coronse, some time 
ago, the development of these lines was so conspicuous as to lead to the inference 
that an outburst of hydrogen, of the nature of a general volcanic eruption, had 
taken place in this star. Singularly in agreement with these observations are 
certain results detennined by I)r. Graham during his researches on the occlusion 
of gases by metals. 

This exact chemist has shown that the different metals have properties of their 
own of condensing the various gases, and concealing or occluding them within 
their substance. In the case of meteoric iron, he has found that it is not only 
charged with occluded gases, but that the gases thus enclosed are different in 
kind from those concealed in iron of telluric origin. Common iron bears the 
impress of the mode by which it has been manufactured in the large proportion 
of carbonic oxide and carbonic acid as constituents of the gases stored between 
its particles, whereas, on the other hand, the iron of the Lenarto meteorite has 
yielded abundance of hydrogen gas almost entirely free from gaseous carbon 
compounds. 

On these results Dr. Graham remarks, " The iron of Lenarto has, no doubt, 
come from an atmosphere in which hydrogen greatly prevailed. The meteorite 
may V)e looked upon as holding imprisoned within it, and bearing to us, hydrogen 
from the stars." Speaking of the amount of gas given lip by this meteoric iron 
being three times the amount found in iron of telluric origin, he further says, 
''The inference is that this meteorite has been extruded from a dense atmosphere 
of hydrogen gas, for which we must look bej'ond the light cometary matter 
floating about within the limits of the solar system." 

A few years ago results of this kind would have been deemed almost beyond 
the hopes of even the most sanguine philosophers. Dr. Graham presents to us 
in a tangible form the hydrogen brought from remote regions of space to which 
possibly our most powerful telescopes have yet failed to reach. He demonstrates 
that it unist have come from a dense atmosphere of the gas found ; and, what is 
of still higher interest, his experiments conduce towards the view that the so- 
called chemical elements of our world are so framed as to adapt them to uses 
throughout the entire scheme of nature. 

In conclusion, I will for a moment return to the affairs of the society. There 
seems to be every prospect of steady progress. I am rejoiced to see the mem- 
bers earnestly following up the objects for which this institution was intended. 
Our efforts, whether they have for their aim the investigation of the laws of nature, 
the development of our natural resources, or the alleviation of the sufferings of 
our fellow-creatures, although, perhaps, crowned with only partial success, have 



THE ROYAL SOCIETY OF VICTORIA. 363 

oacli the effect of promoting' our advancement as a pcojjle, and of raising llie 
estimate of the intellectual status of this colony in the minds of the intelligent 
in other parts of the world. In these days no apology for scientific experiment is 
required, for although the primary object of science is the discovery of truth, it 
is now universally admitted that the contributions applied to the arts of life are 
among the most valued means by "which our civilizatitm is advanced. In a new 
country the problem of the utilization of its resources opens the widest ojiportu- 
nities for the adaptations of science to practical requirements. An example will 
illustrate this general assertion : let us for a moment consider our relatidu with 
the older countries in reference to the supply and demand of the one imjjortant 
item of animal food. "We have inexhaustible means of supply, while in Euro- 
pean countries flesh food is becoming yearly scanier. Any im})roved method of 
animal food preservation, assisting its transport, would be avast accessi(m to our 
meaTis of wealth, and to this end the facts of chemistry in relation to physiology 
ajipear as afl'ording the pro})er key. The case of food supply is l)y no means a 
solitary instance; the same reasoning ajiplies generally to the natural resources 
of a new and extensive country like Australia. 

In these and like considerations let us hope th.it a sufficient stimulus for our 
best efforts will be recognized, and that our endeavors will be so far fruitful as to 
entitle the Royal Society of Victoria to rank in due time with similar older 
institutions in Europe and America. 



EEPOKT ON THE TRANSACTIONS OF THE SOCIETY OF PHYSICS AND NATURAL 
HISTORY OF GENEVA, FROM JUNE, 1807, TO JUNE, 1808. 



EY PROFESSOR KLIE WARTMAJSTN", PRESIDEITr. 



[^Translated for the Smithsonian Institution.'] 



The report wliicli I have the honor of submitting' to my colleagnes of the 
Society is the eleventh of those which have been presented under our existing 
regulation. Like my predecessors, I propose to recall the different communica- 
tions which have been made, by grouping them according to their subjects. Like 
them, too, I would renew the recollection of the amicable discussions, the free 
and unconstrained developments elicited by the reading of a memoir, or even 
the simple statement of a question. It is the privilege of our association ^ have 
no official connections, to observe only our o\\ n traditional customs, and to per- 
mit its members to exchange ideas with a mutual kindliness, whicli certainly 
does not exclude a sincere love of truth. This form has so many charms and 
advantages that I trust it will long be preserved. When in 1890 the society 
shall celebrate the centennial anniversary of its foundation, it will be able to 
point with pride to the fact that it has served in no stinted measure to unite and 
encourage those of our compatriots who devote themselves to the culture of the 
natural sciences. 

Thanks to the care taken by our secretary, M. Alex. Prevost, in recording 
our proceedings, I may hope that m}" account of them will, at least, have the 
merit of exactness. The society has held during its current year twelve general 
and eight special sessions. No modification has been introduced in its rules. 
Tlie old custom of assembling for tea previt)us to our winter sessions has, after 
discussion, been retained. 

Dr. Lombard has l)een called to exercise the functions of president during our 
approaching term, lSGS-'69. M. Marc Miclieli has been elected a member in 
ordinary, as has also M. Godefroy Lunel, who already beloifged to us as a free 
associate. It is with sincere pleasure that I record this increase in the number 
of our members, which now amounts to 42. No death has occurred among them 
within the year. Unfortunately, it is not^so with our honorary men:ibers, three 
of whom have been taken from us. 

Dr. Michael Faraday, one of the most distinguished savants of England, and 
our associate for a quarter of a century, departed this life 25th August last. 
The labors of this eminent physicist are too well known to require enumeration 
here. No time was lost by M. .de la Rive in rendering a toucliing and worthy 
homage to the successor of Humphry Davy.* I had myself, for several years, 
cultivated the most pleasant relations with this kind-hearted man, in whom a 
genius full of originality was allied with the most unaiiected modesty. To 
science, as to his personal friends, the loss is irreparable. 

Six months later, Leon Foucault, an intellect of a high order, was withdrawn 
from us, at the age of 49 years, a victim to immoderate application. He was 

* Archives des sciences, physiques, ct naturelles, t. xxx, p. 131. This notice bas been 
reproduced iu the journal U InslitiU, and iuthe Philusophical Magazine, [also in the Smith- 
sonian Report for 18G7, p. 227.] 



SOCIETY OF PHYSICS AND NATURAL HISTORY OF GENEVA. 365 

endowed with no common facnltios, and vespmblod Fiiraday in tlic incomplete- 
ness of his earlier studies, which both had afterwards found the means of retriev- 
ing through special methods, in conjunction with great d(;cision of purpose. 
Looking upon evidence as the only nninipeachahlc demonstration of tnith, Fou- 
cault had conceived and executed the most delicate researches. His mechanical 
dexterity was incomparable, and, had he lived longer, would have been raado 
available for the solution of many other problems. He was a wann friend, an 
ingenious and penetrating spirit, a clear and accurate writer. He leaves in the 
history of physics profound traces whi(;h will preserve his name from oblivion. 
He was received into our soi-iety in 1859. 

Dr. Charles Daubeney, recently deceased in England at the age of 73 years, 
has been a colleague of ours since 1830. He had pursued at Geneva, under 
Pp'ame de Candolle, his studies in botany, a science of which he was subse- 
quently a professor in the University of Oxford. We are indebted to him for a 
great number of researches in different departments of the natural sciences. In 
our city he had made many friends, to whom he has always remained greatly 
attached. 

After this tribute paid to the memory of savants who are no m(n-e, we may 
congratulate ourselves on having inscribed ujion our list the name of j\I. Claude 
Bernard, the distinguished French physiologist. None among us but remem- 
bers the interesting communication on the curare, and on poisons in general, 
which he presented, in 1865, to the Helvetic Society of Natural Sciences, assem- 
bled within om* walls. 

§ 1. — ASTRONOMY. 

Has the moon, our nearest neighbor in the immensity of the heavens, aiTivcd 
at a definitive state, or can we still discover some changes on its surface 1 This 
question, so important for cosmology, has been almost universally answered in 
tlie negative. Professor Gautier recounted to us (4th July) the researches made 
at Athens, by Dr. Schmidt, on the transformations undergone by the crater Lin- 
naeus, in the Marc Screnitatis. Affirmed by ditferent observers, for instance by 
M. Kespighi, at Bologna, these modifications have been called in doubt by other 
savants. Thus M. William Huggins maintains that the appearance of the Liu- 
ngeus is exactly that which Schroter has figured in plate IX. of his Sdenotppo- 
graphischc Fragmentc. This divergency of views gives interest to the observa- 
tions reported to us by M. Thury, (1st August,) and which he made by means 
of an excellent refractor, mounted at the atelier of Plainpalais, with an objective, 
furnished by Mertz, of four and a half inches opening. Our colleague thinks 
that the crater has become filled with a substance of a whiteness like that of 
ceruse, so that its configuration differs from that represented by Miidler iu his 
celebrated chart. (See Archiccs dcs Sciences, Physiques, ct NaturcUcs, t. xxx, 
p. 292.) 

M. Gautier hag continued, as in former years, to communicate to us the unin- 
terrupted ])rogress of the noble science to which he has devoted himself". Ho 
announced the arrival at Labrador of two thermometers, which he had sent to 
the Moravian missionaries through the medium of our countryman, M. J. L. 
Miclieli. Tliese instruments will Ijo used for a regular study ofxhe temiieraturo 
of those glacial regions. He gave us an account of the researches of Dr. W. 
Schur on the orbit of the double star ;;, in Opliiuchus, from which we are author- 
ized to estimate at about 91 years the jieriud of the revolution of the smaller 
star around the larger. By ado{)ting the value of the annual ])aiallax of this 
group obtained at Bonn, by Dr. Kriiger, the nuituul distance of the two stars 
would appear to be about 30 times the distance from tlie earth to the sun, 
the mass of the group to be triple that of the sun, and its light to occupy 20 
years iu reaching us. Ho brought to our notice the observations of Dr. Auwers, 



366 SOCIETY OF PHYSICS AND NATURAL HISTORY OF GENEVA 

at Gotlia, on the parallax of the star of eighth to ninth magnitude, No. 34 of 
the catalogue of Grooml)ridge, the distance of which from the earth is computed 
to be but 672,000 radii of our orbit. M. Gautier also directed our attention to 
the improvements eflPected in different instruments of astronomy and meteorology, 
and adverted to several new asteroids situated between Mars and Jupiter. The 
discovery of these planets commenced with the present century, and their num-. 
ber reaches to-day nearly 100. 

Professor Plantamour gave an account (21st November) of the mechanical 
processes by help of which he takes observations, registered by a chronograph. 
The scene of his labors this year was the Righi. These observations have 
reference to the determination of gravitation, and to other questions submitted to 
study by the International Conference for the measurement of the meridian 
between two parallels comprising an arc of 22° in middle Europe. 

Since the admirable discoveries of Kirchoflf and Bunsen relative to the spec- 
tral anah'sis, the learned have investigated with much ardor the problems bear- 
ing upon the physical constitution of the sun. One of our colleagues. Colonel 
E. Gautier, has directed his attention specially to the theory of the spots, and 
exhibited to us (4th July) an eye-glass manufactured at Munich, which is intended 
to enfeeble, l»y polarization, the too vivid lustre of the luminary. It would seem 
to result from observations conducted with this instrument that the solar spots 
have a very different appearance from that attributed to them. The importance 
of enabling astronomers to examine these phenomena gave occasion, almost at 
the same time, to the invention, by the ingenious Leon Foucault, of a silver- 
plated reflecting telescope. We may hope, therefore, that with the aid of these 
new instrumentalities science will soon arrive at certain conclusions on this dif- 
ficult sul)ject. JM. E. Gautier has further given, in our meeting of this da}', 
(4th June,) the analysis of a memoir published by M. Spoerer, professor at Anclam, 
on the spots of the sun, in .which the author treats of the law of their velocities 
of rotation according to their heliographic latitudes, and of the irregularities 
which disturb that law. In effect, neighboring spots seem sometimes to undergo 
a sort of torsion, with other anomalous appearances. These anomalies result 
from the modifications, often very rapid, which are observed in the aspect of the 
spots, when a magnifying power sutiiciently strong is employed, and atmospheric 
circumstances are favoraVde. We may then recognize variations, resolutions, 
and new formations comparable to those of our terrestrial clouds. M. Spa3rer 
draws from this a confirmation of the idea, already announced by him, that the 
spots are situated above the brilliant surfaces on which the faciil* are developed. 
Notwithstanding the accidental changes of velocity whose phases have been 
studied, the author refuses to believe that the general movement of the solar 
surface around its axis varies by zones, or by rings parallel to the equator. M. 
Span-er examines, moreover, the proportional distribution of the spots and faculte 
on the different portions of the orb, as well as the relations of tliis distribution 
to the phases of the period of ll years which has been recognized in the fre- 
quency of these phenomena. He afterwards attacks the Wilsonian theory regard- 
ing the funnel-shaped spots. He exerts himself to weaken the bearing of the 
calculations of English astronomers on the mean-proportionals which they have 
deduced from photographic observations of the sun in relation to that theory. 
He refutes the attempts of M. Faye tending to introduce a correction termed par- 
allax of depth, in order to make the calculation of the places of the spots quad- 
rate with the observations derived from the work of M. Carrington. He main- 
tains the views of M. Kirchofton the constitution of the sun, and concludes with 
some ideas touching the manner in which the spots ma}^ be formed. They might 
be generated by intense ascending currents of gaseous matter which burst forth 
from the sphere in fusion and become condensed in the solar atmosphere at dif- 
ferent heights. These foimations would remain or fall back according to the 



SOCIETY OF PHYSICS AND NATURAL HISTORY OF GENEVA. 367 

velocity communicated to tliom l)y tlie strata into wliicli tlicy penetrate, and 
wherein tbey difiuse themselves. 

§ 2. — METEOr.OLOGT. 

Professor A. Gautier read (4th July) an extended notice of the results obtained 
from December, 1865, to November, 18GG, during the third year of observations 
made at the 76 stations of Switzerland, under the two-fold view of temperatures 
and quantities of rain. This production has been inserted in volume xxix of 
the Archives dcs Sciences, Physiques, et KafurcJles. I will content mysell, there- 
fore, with citing a conclusion hut little known ; namely, that the mean tempera- 
ture of Geneva is higher than that of the other cities of our country, with the 
exception of Bellinzona, Lugano, Mendrisio, Montreux, and Sion. At the close 
of the last-mentioned communication. Professor A. de Candolle expressed a regi'et 
that the methods by means of whicli meteorologists establish the mean of the 
numbers they collect, render the results of their calculations nearly useless to 
botanists. He remarked that the phenomena of vegetation continue for some 
months, during which it would be important to know the sums of the tempera- 
tures above a certain degree previously fixed upon. 

§ 3. — MATHEMATICS AND PHYSICS. 

The sun, that source of complex radiations which call forth the most diverse 
and important phenomena, dispenses to us heat varying as to quantity with the 
seasons, and as to composition with the state of the atmosphere. By means of 
the actinometer which he ])resented last year to the society, INI. L. Soret com- 
pared (5th September) the intensity of the caloriiic radiation at Geneva with its 
value on the glacier of the Bossons and at the summi-t of Mont Blanc; he found 
that when the sun is 60° above the horizon, the radiation at a height of 4810 
meters is to that on tlie plain in the ratio of six to five. The dimiuutiou of 
intensity with the height of the sun is much less considerable at a gi'eat altitude 
than in regions less elevated. T^o these observations, made in August, il. Soret 
lias added others during the winter, whence it results that, for the same height 
of tlie sun, tlie intensity of the direct radiation is then greater than in summer, 
Avliich accords with the part which, according to j\I. Tyndall, is borne by tiie 
atmosplieric vapor in the phenomena of absorption. Our colleague has ascer- 
tained that, at an equal elevation of the sun, the radiation diminishes more rap- 
idly when the heat has traversed a watery stratum than when the rays are direct. 
The recital of these results was the occasion of interesting discussions, calculated 
to guide the author in new experiments. 

The question whether the sea is free at the pole was raised in connection with 
these estimates of the thermic intensity of the solar radiation. M. Soret also 
took occasion to state (I9th December) that ozone, prepared l»ythe action of the 
apparatus of Ruhmkorff on f)xygen, jiossesses the same density with that obtained 
by electrolyzing water. (Archircs dcs Sciences, (Cr., t. xxx, p. 306 ) 

Professiir de la Hi ve presented (6th February) the analysis of researches by 
M. Elias Loomis, leading to conclusions very favorable to the electrii; theory of 
])olar auroras, proposed l)y our colleague. [Archives des Sciences, ^c.,t.xKx\, 
p. 27.3.) 

Among the phenomena whose study promises to enlarge the field of our 
knowledge of the intimate constituti(m of bodies, none are more interesting than 
those of rotary polarization. Detected in quartz b}- Arago, in 1811, this mys- 
terious property has l)een found in solids of regular system, in homogeneous 
colorless licpiids, and in certain vapors, though no permanent gas, even when 
compressed, has heretofore manifested it. It is therefore independent of tho 
crystalline state, and, according to tho substance employed, takes placx) some- 



368 SOCIETY OF PHYSICS AND NATUKAL HISTOEY OF GENEVA. 

times to the riglit, sometimes to the left of the observer. Fui-ther, it may vary 
in direction in the same body with the tint of the light which traverses it, for we 
Lave notice of a liquid which is l^evogyral for the rays of one extremity of the 
spectrum and dextrogyral for those of the other extremity. When Faraday 
found, in 1845, that The plane of polarization of a ray traversing an inactive 
substance may be made to turn by placing the substance within the magnetic 
field, he enhanced in an unexpected manner both the interest and the difficulty 
of this problem of molecular mechanics. Wiedemann showed that this artificial 
rotation increases in proportion as the length of wave of the colored ray dimin- f 
ishes. Verdet ascertained that there exist substances for which the rotation is 
positive, others for which it is negative, (that of water being taken for unity,) 
but that it is not necessarily connected W'ith refrangibility. Wertheim deduced 
from his experiments that in general it is absent in solids endued with double 
refraction. 

Is rotary polarization owing to an action exerted by the substance which 
transmits tlie luminous (or calorific) ray, or should it be referred to an influence 
experienced by the ether which surrounds ajid penetrates matter, properly so 
called? The 'first of these suppositions was taken into favor when Faraday 
found that the magnetic rotation is distinguished from the natural, by the very 
important fact that it augments with the length of the course of the ray, whether 
direct or reflected, in the transparent medium. 

Professor de la Rive has resumed the study of this subject, and connnunicated 
to us (7th May) a comprehensive review of his experiments. These have been 
made with divers solids, among others glass compressed by the fulminating dis- 
charge of Ruhrakorft''s machine, as well as with different liquids. Our distin- 
guished colleague had already remarked, {Traife (VElccfricite, t. i, p. 555,) that 
the phenomenon seems connected in an essential manner with the density more 
or less considerable of the intcrmolecular ether, and consequently with the refrac- 
tive power of bodies ; but in his new researches he has found that the density of 
the body itself exercises a great influence, independently of that of the ether 
which it includes. Thus, with the electro-magnetic intensity at his disposal, he 
has ascertained that the rotation being 8° in sulphur of carbon having a density 
of 1,2G3, it became 16°, that is precisely double in thallic alcohol, a liquid of 
which the refrangibility is slightly superior, and which possesses a density much 
more considerable, (3.55.) 

It is known that the rotation of the plane of polarization persists for some 
instants after the electric current has been interrupted. M. de la Rive has 
satisfied himself by a great number of experiments in which he has succeeded in 
measuring the dur'ation of that persistence, and in appreciating the circumstances 
which influence it, that this effect cannot be explained by the inertia of the pon- 
derable molecules. It is a consequence of the magnetism remaining in the iron 
of the electro-magnet, for it no longer takes place when inductive spirals simply, 
without a metallic nucleus, are employed. M. de la Rive concludes that artificial 
rotary polarization, although greatly' influenced by the molecular constitution of 
bodies, is not due to an alteration which magnetism might determine in that con- 
stitution, but rather to an action exerted indirectly on the ether through the 
medium of the ponderable particles. This explains why the phenomenon depends 
at once on the state of the intcrmolecular ether, and on the arrangement of the 
number and the nature of the particles in a given volume of a body. 

M. Achard recapitulated (April 16) the conclusions of a popular lecture given 
by INI. Clausius on the second principle of the mechanical theory of heat. Accord- 
in o- to the last-named savant, the work which natural forces can execute, and 
which is contained in the movements of the different bodies of the universe, is 
successively tranformed into heat. This heat seeks incessantly to pass from 
warmer bo'dies into colder ones, so that there will be gradually established a 
definitive equilibrium between the heat radiating into ether and that which 



SOCIETY OF PHYSICS AND NATURAL HISTORY OF GENEVA. 369 

exist? in bodies. To express tliis progressive change M. Clausius imagines a 
magnitufle which, in rchition to the transformations, wouhl \)\i\y the same part 
as heat in rchition to energy and work, and he calls this magnitadc cntropic. 
The result of his philosophic views he ex})rcsses by saying that the entropy of 
the universe tends towards a maximum. Thus the modifications und(;rgone l>y 
the creation, instead of having a periodical and circular course, always take 
place in a definite direction and tend towards a limitary state. If that state ho 
some day attained, no ulterior change will he possible, and the univovso will 
lapse into a condition of persistent death ! 

M. Charles Cellerier presented (May 7) two notes; one relating to the theory 
of prime numl»ers, of Avhich a mean law may be found more approximuto than 
that indicated by Legendre ; the otlier devoted to the calculation of the attractions 
and repulsions in electrilied bodies. M. Cellerier demonstrates that, whatever be 
the form and arrangement of several insulated conductors, the total potential 
possesses for each of them, at every instant, a constant value in its whole interior. 
Moreover, if we compute the sum of the products of the potential of each con- 
ductor by the total mass of the electricity which covers it, the variable quantity 
thus ol)tained has the property of representing double the labor of the forces 
exerted on the material conductors themselves, when these are displaced in any 
manner. The calculation for the special case of two spheres serves for contirma- 
tion to this general theorem. 

Some communications were also made by your president. He exhibited a 
sample of the infusion of Cuba wood, or braziline, discovered by Professor Gop.- 
pelsroder, which is endowed with a very decided fluorescence. He submittetl 
to 3'Our notice the new magnifying glasses of Adolphe »Steinheil, formed Ivy tk© 
conjunction of three lenses, and possessing the double advantage of being rtclu'o- 
matic and of not destroying the images on the contour of the visual ii(!Ut. He^ 
described the electro-magnetic pendulum of Tiede, which has served l\t>ft>t<soi- 
Forster, director of the Astronomical Observatory of Berlin, to deterusine the 
coiTcction which should be applied to the speed of a clock for the variations of 
the atmospheric pressure. He presented the new electric machine of Holtz^ autl 
repeated the unpublished experiments of M. Ktinig on the determimitlou of tho 
upper limit of sounds perceptible from the concussion of bars of steel cnlculattx;! 
by length. He called attention to a singular case of permanence in a charge of 
electricity induced in a long wire, a case observed in England by M. Wild. H« 
pointed out an elementary solution of the problem of the trisectvau of the angle. 
Finally, he described experiments which he had made with the improved reg«- 
lator of Leon Foucault for the electric light. These researches confirm iho 
results which he communicated to the; society in 1852, namely^ that with abattwy 
which works well and a delicate apparatus, the cm-rent may be interrupted duai;t<^ 
one-thirtieth of a second without inducing variation in the illuminatiou of a serct^u 
exjiosedtothelightof thearc. The armature of the electro-uiagnet is not unchai^x\l, 
and no sound of any action is heard. If the interruiitiouis longer continued, )x>tU 
the eye and the ear are apj)rised of it. "When the interruption attains one-teuth 
of a second the arc vanishes, I conclude from this, and from considen^tionsi 
which would detain us too long if detaihxl here, that when the intcrru))tii)u is 
pulliciently short, the arc continues to exist, contrary to the ojjinion of M. F. i*. 
Jjcroux, who recognizes a cessation followed by the spontaneous re-establish- 
ment of the arc. {Comptcs licndus de VAcad^mie dcs IScienccs dc JPari^; t. Ixvi, 
p. 155.) 

§ 4. — CIIEMISTKT. 

i\r.Delafontainchas ascertained (21st jSTovember) that the mcdybdafos dissolved 
in fluorhydric acid give rise to a now class of salts, the iluoxymolybdates, which 
present the most complete analogy with the fluoxytungstates and the fluosynio- 
24 s 



370 SOCIETY OF PHYSICS AND NATURAL HISTORY OF GENEVA. 

biates fliscovered l»y Professor Mari£!;nac. An attentive study of the crystalline 
forms has established their isomorphism both with these two categories of saline 
products and with the bodies, such as the fluotitanates, in which the fluor is 
completely substituted for the oxygen. The author has confirmed the fact 
established by 51. JIarignac that the fluor replaces atom for atom the oxygen as 
the isomorphous element. (Archives dcs Sciences, &c., t. xxx, p. 232. j M. Paul 
de Gasparin (invited to one of our reunions) recounted to us (7th May) the prin- 
ciples of the physical analysis of arable lands in the view of determining the rehi- 
tivc proportions of gravel, sand, and clay which exist in the cultivated soil. But 
this anal3-sis does not necessarily manifest the degree of fertility of a given soil, 
for it cannot evince the very variable proportions of phosphoric acid, potassium, 
magnesia, and other mineral substances which fulfil the functions of manures. 

§ 5. — MIXERALOGT AND GEOLOGY. 

M. dc Loriol (2d January) having, in company with M. Cotteau, studied the 
Portlandian stratum of the department of the Yonne, has found it to be divided 
into two zones : the lower one with but 13 fossil species and characterized by 
the Ammonites f/igas, the upper with 110 species and characterized by the Pinna 
sitperjur&nsis. The lower zone presents the remarkable fact of the intercalation, 
in the midst of the limestone, of a thin marly bed filled with the Ostrca virgida. 
The first strata of the middle neocomian rest immediately on the last Portlan- 
dian strata. The zoological limit, however, is sharply defined ; no species is 
common to the two faunas. Professor Favre ( 7th November) presented us his w'ork 
in three volumes, entitled : lieclierchcs gcologiqiics dans les parties de la >avoie, 
dii Fiemont ct de la Suisse, voisines du Mont-Blanc, (Geological researches in 
the parts of Savoy, Piedmont and Switzerland, adjacent to Mont-Blanc,) with 
an atlas of 32 plates. Proceeding in the traces of Horace de Saussure, Deluc, 
Necker and other explorers, our colleague has brought a large contingent of 
personal observations towards deciphering the enigma of the formation of the 
Central Alps. The medal awarded to his geological chart of these countries by 
the jury of the Exposition of 18G7, enables us to presage the reception which 
the text that completes it will receive. The society may well congratulate 
itself at seeing members like MM. de la Rive, Pictet, Boissier, de Candolle, 
Favre, de Saussiu-e and others, employed in collecting in special works and in 
a systematic form, not only their own numerous researches, btit those which 
other savants have dispersed in memoirs and monographs. There cannot but 
ensue from this a more precise statement of general results, a more exact view 
of laws and their relative importance, a more certain classification, and a 
more profound examination of obscure or doubtful points. Science is 
advanced by being embodied in a systematic form. (Archives des Sciences, 
&c., t. xxxi, p. 123. j M. Favre has, at different intervals, placed under 
our eyes wrought silex and' fossil bones collected for some time past at dif- 
ferent places on Mt. Saleve. The first discoveries go back to at least 1835 ; I 
possess some pieces which I then met with in the caverns of Veyrier while 
making botanical and geoloo'ical excursions. The specimens collected by our 
colleague are implements of' flint mingled with the relics of the reindeer, atid 
ascend to the most ancient period of the age of stone. He has seen a bone orna- 
mented with a design which represents an animal, (probably a wild goat,) and 
another bone on which a plant was carved. M. Favre computes that the 
station of Veyrier is posterior to the glacial period, and that the reindeer then 
abounded in our neighborhood as it now abounds in Norway. It was probably 
in the facilite of Mornex, on the lesser Saleve, that the material was sought, at 
that remote age, for executing the carved implements of Veyrier and the envi- 
rons. Nothing, however, authorizes us to infer the existence of the human race 
anterior to the glacial epoch. (Archives dcs Sciences, &c., t. xxxi, p. 246.^ M. 



SOCIETY OF PHYSICS AND NATURAL HISTORY OF GENEVA. 371 

Favre annouuccd (5th Marcli) that the Society of Natural History of Bcn-iie liad 
purchased, in order to insure its presentation, an erratic l)h)ck meaVuriiii^- 320,000 
cuLic feet and situated near InterUiken. It is a beautiful red granite of unknown 
origin. 

§ G. — UOTANT. 

Tlie natural sciences have assnni(>d a new phase since the pnLlication of Dar- 
win's work on species. What is designated hy that word ? And, since s])ecie3 
is variable, how is that varia\)ility to be indicated? By what artifice of nonien- 
cLiture are we to reveal to the sa\ants of future times the metamorphoses and 
filiations which are accomplished under our eyes ? 

These philosophical prol)lems have rendered the naturalists of different coun- 
tries sensible of the utility of reunions in which they may be discussed in a sci- 
entific manner. Our society has not been insensible to the honor conferred on 
one of its members, who was called in May, 1866, to preside over the first con- 
gress of botanists assembled in the capital of England. The connnittee of the 
botanical society of France, charged with organizing a second session at Paris, 
in August, 1867, invited M. Alphonse de Candolle anew to act as president of 
that assembly. The learned professor had given us the programme of a plan 
relative to the laws of nomenclature, in which, for the first time, he had co-ordi- 
nated them as the articles of a code. This plan, submitted to a special commis- 
sion, was adopted by the congress, which caused it to be inseruxl in its transac- 
tions. After an enunciation of general principles, the difl'erent subjects are 
grouped according to their nature, and each provision is marked with a number, 
so that it can be always referred to with distinctness. It is known that Lin- 
nssus has given laws inider phrases thus numl)ered, but he has not indicated 
the directing principles ; many of his laws were arbitrary and certain points of 
view completely pretermitted. M. de Candolle has been more methodical and 
more complete than his predecessors. lie has been led to justify the usages 
followed by his father, by Adrien de Jussien, Robert Brown, Hooker, Lindley, 
and still observed by jMM. de ^Martins, Bentham, the younger Hooker, and 
others. By an immense majority of the members of the congress, the system of 
our colleague was voted to be the best guide to follow for botanical nonienclotare. * 

At another session (7th May) M. de Candolle presented to us some additional 
details on the subdivision of cultivat'ed species into hybrids^ mongrels, [mciis,) 
semis, and lusus. The hybrids being designated by the sign X, the nn-tis by x, 
the author proposes the sign y/ to distinguish the semis and a z for the lusus. 
Such, it may be added, is the stage of advancement of descriptive botany that, 
at the end of the jiresent century, nearly the whole of the genera will probably 
be known, while much will remain to be done in the investigation of s})ecies. 
{Archives dcs Sciences, (f'C, t. xxx, p. 278.) 

M. de Candolle called our attention (2d January) to a note of M. Venance 
Payod, of Chamonix.on vegetation in the regiiju of ice ; it comprises a very (com- 
plete list of vegetable s])ecies which are grown at the garden on thesloi)esof the 
Mer de Glace and its alHuents. The same memlter gave an account (otli ]March) 
of his researches respecting the important family of the Cycadea". 

It is at present composed of nine genera and 64 species, half of which inhabit 
America, while the rest are divided between the Old World and Australia. It is 
scarcely probable that the whole actual number of species exceeds 100, while it 
made a conspicuous figure in ancient geological times. A thorough examination of 
facts leads M. de Candolle to adopt tin; opinimi of Robert lirown on tho natin-e 

' Lots dc la numcnclatiire, botnnirjuc, udopttd by tlie iutcnmlioiifil conprivss of hofimy. held 
in Piuis ill Anpust, lH(i7; foUuwed by a second edition of tlic Ilistorirnl Iiilroilurluin and 
Coiiiinfintury wliich accompanied the preparatory aumniary presented to tlie congress. Gen- 
eva &. Bale, Georg, editor : a vohune of 04 pages. 



3 ( 2 SOCIETY OF PHYSICS AND NATURAL HISTORY OF GENEVA. 

of the fruit of tlie cycadcre and of tlae coniferpe. This frnit proceeds from a 
nak-ed ovu5e, witkout ovarium, inserted on au organ analogous to the leaves. 
To all the arguments wliiek have been advanced with this view, he adds that in 
certain of the conifers?, such as the podoearpiis, the ovules are anatropous, a 
mode of development absolutely unknown among ovarinms. He does not hesi- 
tate to affirm that the gvmnosperms are dicotyledons, and have only external- 
resemblances of vegetation or aspect to vascular cryptog'ams. M. de Candolle 
has further shown us (4tla July) the acorns of an oak, a native of California, 
which jDresent a groove near the edge of the cup, as if they had been compressed 
by a cord. 

On occasion of the analysis made l\y JI. Alois Humbert of a new work which 
Mr. Wallace is about to jiublish on the classification of varieties in the animal 
kingdom, (especially in the genus PapiUo,) M. de Candolle remarked (16th April) 
that varieties have not been more studied in botany than in zoology. There 
are not as many which are local among vegetables as amo7ig animals; nevertheless 
there exists a certain description of forms according to the nativity. A facies, dif- 
ficult to be defined, will sometimes indicate to a practiced eye the origin of dilFer- 
cnt plants. We will cite, in the last place, the examination into which M. de 
Candolle entered (IGth April) of the work of MIM. Perrierand Sangeon on the 
distribution of species in the Alps of Savo}'. It has been long remarked that 
certain alpine regions are distinguished by a very poor flora, while at other points 
it is very abundant, as at Mount Cenis, at the Saint Bernard, at Zermatt, and 
in the ncighlwring localities, up to the confines of the Valais and of Italy. MM. 
Perrier and Saugeon attiibute this fact to an anthraciferous geological fomia- 
tion which bisects the Alps from Mount Cenis, and borders to the south the chain 
of Mont Blanc, com])rising Cramont, Saint Bernard, &;c. M. de Candolle con- 
tests the influence wliich the geological formation is capable of exerting on vege- 
tation. Deposits indeed exercise an influence through their physical and min- 
eralogical qualities, and that on every species of stratum. The anthraciferous 
formation is ver^- ancient, and vegetation did not commence until after the glacial 
period. The great chain must then have been the center of an immense accu- 
mulation of snow, in the vicinity of which only arctic plants could subsist, lii 
proportion as the glaciers diminished, the species of the plain ascended, espe- 
cially on the southern flank. Hence the origin of the vegetable wealth of cer- 
tain localities, which, therefore, is not to be imputed to the geological formation. 
Thus it is remarked that the plants to the south pertain to families relativelj 
more recent in a paleontological point of view ; such are the composites, the 
campanidacea3, the primulacece, &c., which do not occur among arctic vegetables. 
Rev. Dr. Duby communicated to us (4th July) the first part of a memoir entitled 
''Choix de Cyypiogumes cxotiqucs ou mal conjnics,^' (selection of exotic or little- 
known crj'ptogams.) He treats therein more particularly of 12 species of mosses, 
10 of whicli arc new, while two had been hnperfectly described by Schwilgrichen. 
Five of these species belong to Mexico, one to Uruguay, one to Colombia, one 
to Patagonia, one to Chili, one to the Cape, one is met with at the Cape and at 
the Antilles, and a last one at the Antilles and the Mauritius. They are dis- 
tributed among the genera Campylopus, Orthotrkum, Macromitrium, ScUotlieimia, 
Fahronia, Hookcria^Hypnum, and a new genus allied to the Macyomitrium, which 
M. Du])y names MonoscMsma. (See the present volume of the Memoircs de (a 
Societc.J The same member described (19th March) the new champignons of 
the family of the lycoperdacea;, which Dr. Westwick has found in the king- 
doms of Angola and Benguela. They are remarkable for their dimensions, some 
attaining a demi-meter in height. In these species the seed escape circularly by 
a series of small holes, while in the species of Europe they issue only b}' a single 
opening at the top. Dr. Gosse pointed out (5th December) the appearance of 
female flowers on some male plants ot Dioscorca Z^atato^ cultivated in our canton. 
Dr. Miiller recounted analogous cases of dioecious plants having become mon- 



SOCIETY OF niYSICS AND XATURAL IIISTOEY OF GENEVA. 373 

oecious. The same botanist reported, on the authority of MM. A. Famiutrin 
and Baranetzky, interesting' details on the culture of the isolated gonidia of the 
Parniclia parietina. These facts are a proof of the existence of aoospores among 
the lichens. 

§ 7. — ZOOLOGY. 

At the last meeting' of the previous academic year, (Gth Jvme,) Prof. E. Cla- 
parede presented to the society the result of his comprehensive researches on the 
Annelides. This work will occupy two of the annual volumes of our memoirs, 
and will not be the least ornament of the series. Oar learned colleague ex- 
plained (4th July) the origin of certain valves observed at the extremity of the 
bristles which cover the feet in some of these species. At the tin:ie of their 
egress these bristles pierce the integuments by means of hoolcs covered with a 
hood, aiid this hood, which is caducous, remains sometimes in the shajje of two 
valves at the extremity of the bristle. Our colleague has recognized in the case 
of a num who had died of a disease of the liver, that the reputed cyst fonued in 
that organ, aiid which had attained the size of a man's head, resulted from an 
aggregation of Ecliinococci. It is only a phase of the development of the toenia 
of the dog, the agi^ of which is transformed into the Echinococciis in the interior 
of the body of ruminants and of man. This explains the great abundance of 
this parasite among the people of Iceland, where the number of dogs equals one- 
third of that of the inhabitants. 

M. Godefroy Lunel, keeper of the museum, exhibited to us (3d October) the 
admirably colored plates of a memoir on the fishes of the lake of Geneva, which 
will be published by the Zoological Association of the Leman. M. Lunel finds the 
number of species equal to that which Prof. Jurine has described in a memoir 
inserted in vol. iii of our repertory ; but it is by separating the trout of the lake 
from that of the rivers, and by suppressing one of the species admitted by tho 
last named naturalist. M. V. Fatio discovered (21st November) in the museum 
of Neuchatel a specimen of an old female tetra bearing the external appearance 
of the male. In this connection he discussed some cases of cross-breeding 
between neighboring species, and affirmed that these crosses are less rare than is 
sui)posed. 

31. 11. de Saussure was designated to describe the hymenoptera collected 
during the voyage of the Austrian frigate Novara around the world, (1857-59.) 
He has taken this occasion to publish the new species lu'ought from the east by 
M. Alois Iliunbert. The same member rendered a just homage to tho virtues 
and talents of the Vaudese naturalist, Alexander Ycrsin, reiiioved by death in 
the flower of his age, after having made himself known by remarkable researches 
on the stridulation of insects. M. de Haussure has offered us the biographical 
notice consecrated to the memory of his friend. 

In presenting' to us the cast of a skeleton of the gorilla, of natural size. Prof. 
Pictet pointed out (1st August) the differences observable on a comparison with 
tlie human skeleton. There has been recently found a new species of chimpan- 
zee, the stature of which nearly approaches that of the gorilla. 

§ 8. ANATOMY AND I'UYSIOLOGY. 

Dr. Claparcdc exjdained (21st November) the latest researches instituted by 
M. Dubois-Ile3miood on nmscular electricity. The results at which the Berlin 
physiologist has arrived, by the employment of new instruments, are quite differ- 
ent from his older determinations. {Archives dcs Sciences, dx., t. xxx, pp. 359, 
3G4.) The same member presented (5th December) a series of designs relative 
to the anatomy and eml)ry()genv of some species of acari. In the hydrachni, 
and especially the Alax, the formation of the embryo in the Qi^'^ involves tho 



374 SOCIETY OF PHYSICS AND NATURAL HISTORY OF GENEVA 

rupture of the sliell; but the embryo, instead of being- free, is enveloped in a 
membrane or deiifovum, whence it afterwards issues, first as a larva with a cara- 
pace, to be transformed secondly into a larva without carapace, and finally to 
become a perfect animal. In the embryo, as in the adult, the circulation is 
supplied by the existence of alternating- or amceabean corpuscles, which insinuate 
themselves among- the organs, and are the eciuivalent of the corpuscles of the 
blood in other animals. M. Claparede has extended his researches to the para- 
sitic acari of the skins of divers of the liodcntia. He has observed that these 
minute creatures have organs of attachment analogous but not homologous, a 
fact which is favorable to the theory of the gradual transformation of species in 
the sense of Darwin. A parasite of the Mas musculus presents an eg-g, a 
deutovum and tritovum, a circumstance hitherto unobserved. According to M. 
Alois Humbert, the analogue of the deutovum occurs in the myriapod Chilog- 
natlms. It has been seen also in the Jtihts, and been named the pupoid body. 
It exists likewise among the GJomeris, in wljich, like the egg, it is spherical. 

M. Claparede has occupied himself also with another acarus, the Tetranyclms 
of the Linden. It is known that in a great number of articulata, the blastoderm 
appears around the vitellus without previous segmentation. Now, in the Tcira- 
wjclius the formation of the l)lastoderm takes place by the division, repeated 
many times, of a primitive cellule placed at the surface of the vitellus. The 
nucleus of the cellule is of doubtful origin ; it is probable that it constitutes the 
germiuative vesicle. This cellule should be considered as a vitellus of forma- 
tion wdiich constitutes a segment at the surface of a vitellus of ruitrition. Hence 
the ovules of the Tetranyclms enter into the class of those of which the segment- 
ation is partial. {Archives cles Sciences, d'C, t. xxxi, p. 104.) 

Besides these original researches, M. Claparede submitted to us statements of 
the most striking advances which have been made in zoology and its kindred 
branches. Thus, he drew our attention to the investigations of M. Stein relative 
to infusoria, and to this unexpected conclusion, that the bourgeons of the verti- 
celli are but an appearance resulting from the fact that a small individual has 
become conjoined with another of greater size. He analyzed the publications 
of M. Semper on the inferior animals which inhabit the coasts of the Philippine 
islands, and the new work of Dr. Darwin on the modifications experienced by 
animals in a state of domestication. He acquainted us with the recent ol)serva- 
tions of M. Parkes on muscular labor, according to which this labor would coin- 
cide, not with an oxidation of the tissue of the nuiscle, but with an augmenta- 
tion of its voliune produced by a more energetic assimilation of the nitrogenized 
substances with which the blood is supplied. M. Clajjarede explained (7tli 
November) the ingenious researches of Prof. Max Schultzo on the structure of 
the retina. According to this skillful micrographist, the two sorts of elements 
which are found unequally distributed in the exterior layer fulfill difi'erent func- 
tions. The rod-like organizations (bufonnets) serve for the perception of the 
luminous intensity, while the cones are destined to distinguished colors. 

Dr. Henry Dor made known to us that calabarine, the eftect of wliich on the 
pupil is the reverse of that of belladonna, acts as an antidote to strychnine. In- 
paralyzing the muscles which depend on the will without abolishing the latter. 
It may, therefore, be useful in tetanic aftections. The professor last named 
gave his confirmation (2d April) to the fact, based on the investigations of Cra- 
mer and Heynolds, that the part heretofore attributed to the iris in the function 
of adjustment is completely null. It is the ciliary muscle alone which is in ])lay. 

Dr. Julliard the younger has had occasion to study a temtological case very 
rare in the human species, namely, scironomelia, or a soldering together of the 
two lower members. He presented to the society two photographs of the mon- 
strosity, the subject of which lived some instants after Ijirth, and gave a descrip- 
tion of the anatomical peculiarities of the case. 

Our vice-president, Dr. Lombard, read to us (2d April) the results of his sta- 



tistical researches on tlio distribution of mortality in certain Swiss cantons, 
according to the months and seasons. At Geneva, where documents are extant 
wliich go back to the IGth century, it is ascertained that the diflereuce IVoni 
season to season has been but slightly sensible. The winter is the most unfavor- 
able epoch, sununer the most salubrious ; spring approximates to the rate ot 
wiuter, autumn to that of summer. Aubonne and Vevay furnish analogous 
results. In the canton of Neuchatel winter is the most fatal season for the low 
country, while spring is most fatal in the mountain region. The same is re- 
marked as regards 43 conuuunes of the canton of Berne. Zurich, the city of 
Hale, Thurgovia, Appenzell, show a slight predominance of mortality in si)ring. 
In Aargau winter has the highest range of mortality. Everywhere the cases 
of death are more numerous during the summer in cities, and during the wiuter 
in the country. The cold of wint^jr is more homicidal as the altitude is higher; 
the ratio is reversed for the mouths of summer and autumn. 



Such has been the scientific movement of our society during the year which 
finishes to-day. The variety of the subjects to which attention has been devoted 
e(pials' their importance. 1 may congratulate my colleagues on the part which 
they have borne with so much zeal, a part which it is not for me to estitnate, in 
the study, always novel and alwaj'S attractive, of the phenomena of nature. Our 
cantonal and municipal authorities have recently added their efforts by 
creating at Geneva a museum, laboratories, and a library on a level with the 
progress of the age. Let us welcome cordially these new means of study pla(!ed 
at our disposal, and continue w'ith ceaseless ardor to propagate the taste for intel- 
lectual pursuits. At the moment of resigning the functions which you have 
done me the honor to confide to me, 1 offer you, my highly esteemed and dear 
colleagues, the expression of my gratitude for the assiduous co-oper<ition by wdiicl; 
you have rendered the exercise of those functions as easy as agrei.a,ble. 



HISTORY OF THE TRANSACTIONS OF THE- ANTHROPOLOGICAL SOCIETY OF 
PARIS FROM 1805 TO 18(3?. 



By M. Paul Buoca, General Secretary of the SocifeTfi d'Anthropologib, Pro- 
fessor AT THE FaCULTE DE MEDICINE DE PaRIS. 



[_ Translated hy C. A. Alexander for the Smithsonian Institution.*^ 



When, four years ago, I liad the honor of presenting to tlie society for the first 
time the analysis of its labors, 1 deemed it proper to preface my report by a 
brief historical exposition, in order to recall the principal phases through which 
anthropology had passed from its origin up to the epoch at which our society 
communicated to it a new impulse and direction. It was not at that time, per- 
haps, superfluous to show how the field of our science, restricted in the begin- 
ning to a purely descriptive study of the races of mankind, had become rapidly 
aggrandized when, renouncing the pretension of depending only on itself, it had 
contracted a close alliance with all the sciences which throw light on the past 
as well as present condition of humanity. 

It is now nearl}^ a half century since linguistics was called to lend its invalu- 
able aid to etlinology. That indispensable means of investigation, whose reach 
extends much beyond the narrow outline of histoiy, has revealed to us unex- 
pected filiations and opened horizons almost without limit. In according it a 
Large share in your labors yovi have but followed the example of your predeces- 
sors. But that which peculiarly pertains to you — that which you have for the 
first time realized — is the association of our* science with geology and paheonto- 
logy, with prehistoric archeology, with general natural history and zootechny, 
with medical geography, statistics, public h^'giene — in fine, with physiology and 
medicine itself. To fulfill this gigantic programme, the society has invoked and 
obtained the co-operation of a great nimibcr of savants, differing in the nature of 
their studies, but all alike emulous of participating in the progress of the science 
of man. By the side of these, historians, men of letters, artists, philosophers, 
have taken their place, and by their communications not unfrequently enlightened 
our discussions. Thus human knowledge, in its most varied forms, finds its rep- 
resentatives among us, and our society is as a living cnc3^clopedia, in Avhich all 
questions, under every difterent aspect, ma}' receive immediate consideration by 
competent minds. 

This })ropiLious state of things has, however, given rise to some criticism. 
Those who regraxl the objects of anthropology in a difi'erent light from ourselves, 
and who would restrict it to the description of liiunan races, have conceived a 
fear lest among so many sciences which it has laid under contribution it should 
lose its unity of action, its independence, and, so to speak, its individttality. But 
it is enough to be present at any of our sessions to see that the ideas which are 
disengaged from the great variety in our labors always converge in the end 
towards the same object, and to realize that anthropology, far from being 
absorbed by the sciences which surround it, is, on the contrary, the common 
ground on which they meet — the focus wliich attracts and the bond which con- 
nects them. It is like tliose edifices in course of construction for which work- 



*Itisvur. dcs Cours Scientijiqucs de la France et dc V Elrangcr. Paris, 18GG-'G7. 



ANTHROPOLOGICAL SOCIETY OF PARIS. 377 

nion of every order, from the artisan to the artist, bring' tosfetlicr and arrans^e 
materials of all kinds — stones hewed or scnlptnred, esoticlnarbles, g-ranite, wood, 
metals. To the apparent eonfnsioii of the first stag'e succeed, after a while, 
order and harmony ; nor is it necessary to wait till the structure is finished to 
discover the ]dan and purpose of the architect. It is in like manner that the 
collective work of our S(tciety is developed; the architect here is an impersonal 
l)ein<^, it is the society itself; and all we who respectively represent the numerous 
sciences summoned to its aid are the workmen,* whose zeal it stimulates and 
whose labors it turns to account. 

But the vast variety of subjects which enter into our programme has given 
birth to prepossessions which manifest themselves at recarring intervals. The 
necessity of drawing anthropological indications from all s(furces has been con- 
tested by no one ; but it has been asked to what point and within what limits 
the sciences which group themselves around anthropology should be placed 
under contribution? Our distinguished colleague, M. Charles Rochet, who first 
suggested this question, has long studied human types under the artistic point of 
view. His attention has been particularly directed to the characters of Greek 
and Roman heads — characters which he has chiefly determined from antique 
sculjjtures, without neglecting, however, the testimony of numismatic or ceramic 
art. But at the moment of communicating to us the results of his curious obser- 
vations, he has hesitated ; he lias felt a doubt whether researches of this kind, 
based on facts which pertain principally to the domain of art, ought to figure in 
the compass of anthropological investigations, and he has invited the society to 
state in a general manner the nature of the relations which it regards as estab- 
lished between anthropology properly so called and the conceptions which the 
latter borrows from different branches of human knowledge. The scruples of 
our colleague were exaggerated, and the interest with which you have listened 
since then to his memoir on the t^'pe of the Roman head must have satisfied him 
that they were so. But the general question which he had proi)ounded retains 
all its imjiortance, and merits your attention the more inasmuch as it was recently 
reproduced when M. Camus communicated to us the learned researches of M. 
Fetis on musical systems considered as an ethnological character, 

The history of the arts, no more than that of languages, of religions, of letters, 
or political societies, no more than the sciences callecl biological, no more than 
zoology, palaeontology, and geology, forms any part of the programme of anthro- 
pology. A memoir ex professo on painting or on music would be as little in 
place here as a comnnmication on the structure of the bones, or a dissertation on 
the use of the subjunctive. Anatomy, however, furnishes us the best distinctive 
characters of the himian races, and we are obliged incessantly to invoke its aid. 
when we would establish a parallel between the human grou}) and that of the 
anthrf)pomorj)hous apes. Nor is linguistics less indispensable when we design 
to study the filiation of nations and races. Little does it import to us that such 
a race of sheep furnishes an abundant fleece, that such another affords less avooI 
and produces more flesh j but when the history of these races, of their origin, of 
their crossings, of their degree of stability, supplies us with ideas more or less 
precise on the general question of the race or species, anthrojiology avails itself 
with eagerness of these facts, which are capable of contributing to the solution 
of some of its gravest problems. It is thus that we have often seen our learned 
colleague, M. iSanson, bring his vast knowledge in zootechny to bear, and never 
without efi'ect, upon our discussions. We could not advance a single ste}) in the 
study of the })rehistorie races if arclurology had not first furnished the elements 
for tlie distinction of epochs — if it did not indicate to us the relative dates of th(i 
inhumations from which we derive the bones submitted to our observation; yet 
it is evident that the laljors proper to pure archaMdogy would divert us from our 
object. This has been perfectly comprehended by those of our colleagues who, 
without ceasing to be numbered among our most zealous and active members, 



378 ANTHROPOLOGICAL SOCIETY OF PARIS. 

have founded witliin two years past, under the presidency of M. Leguaj', the 
Parisian Socicfij of Arcliceology and History. In this younger association, which 
so many ties connect with our own, arch8eoh)gical facts are set forth in all their 
details and are discussed for their own sake, while among- ourselves the archaeo- 
logical demonstration is, so to speak, but the preliminary of the anthropological 
facts which result therefrom; and hence it frequently happens that the same 
researches, without involving useless repetition, present themselves at the same 
time in both societies under dffferent points of view. This example serves, bet- 
ter than any other, tc evince the nature of the relations of interdependence [soli- 
daritc) which exist between anthropology and the sciences grouped around it. 
It asks from those sciences indications ratlier than didactic developments, and 
therefore can afford to exclude none of the branches of human knowledge which 
are capable of furnishing any ideas on the history or the families of mankind. 

Under this head I may point to the importance of the researches of M. Fetis, 
of Brussels, on the origin of musical systems, and their distribution among the 
different populations, ancient or modern, civilized or barbarian. This venerable 
savant has devoted a long life to a study which, previously, had barely attracted 
the attention of a few virtuosi, but which has become in his hands a real science. 
Accustomed from our infanc}^ to certain musical impressions, we have been led 
to believe that our classical gamut is the sole form of harmony, that the division 
of the octave into five tones and two demi-tones is an institution of nature, and 
that every modulation whose elements do not enter exactly into this division is 
false, discordant, contrary to the pre-established order of things. This, how- 
ever, is but an illusion developed by habit. It suffices to hear or to analyze the 
strains of the nightingale or linnet to perceive that they cannot be expressed on 
the keys of our pianos, and to be convinced that the purest harmony may exist 
outside of our musical system. As for this system, we find it everywhere among 
the nations which have adopted our own form of civilization. The multitude of 
strangers drawn to the Universal Exhibition at Paris, after having presented 
during the day the phenomenon of a complete confusion of tongues, constitute 
but a single people wher. they congregate at night in the saloon of the opera. 
Amid the diversity of their idioms, the music establishes between them common 
sensations, and^ so to say, a common language ; but if the same auditory found 
itself transported of a sudden into the presence of one of the Chinese orchestras 
with which our colleague, M. Armand, has lately entertained us, it would sup- 
pose that it was "listening to a charivari and would stop its ears, much to the 
scandal of the indigenous spectators, who, for that matter, no more comprehend 
our musical sj'stem than we theirs. 

Just as linguistics enables us to establish among the groups of mankind dis- 
tinctions and approximations, the significance of which may admit of discussion, 
but whose reality is rigorously demonstrable, so the study of musical systems 
and of their actual distril>ution may furnish valuable indications, if not on the 
filiation of races, at least on the communications which must have existed between 
them at epochs more or less remote. For this reason alone, the comprehensive 
researches of M. Fetis would be worthy of your favorable attestation. The docu- 
ments which he has collected on the music of nearly all modern nations have 
led him to establish a certain number of great and well-determined groups. But 
this conception, however interesting it may 1)0, did not satisfy him. He per- 
ceived that it was necessary to seek in the study of the jiast the explanation of 
the present state of things, and has undertaken a labor which may be compared 
to that of the linguists who, resuscitating dead languages and even reconstruct- 
ing primitive ones of which no recollection is retained, have succeeded in casting 
no obscure light upon prehistoric eras. Not content with recombining all writ- 
ten indications on the music of the ancients, M. Fetis has brought into play the 
instruments discovered by the archaeologists. The flutes, the fragments of the 
lyre foiuid in the monuments of Egypt or sculptured on Assyrian bas-reliefs, 



ANTHROrOLOGICAL SOCIETY OF PARIS. 379 

Lave served liim as models, and, by copyini; these instruments ■uitli Lis own 
Lund and with strict exaetness, Le has drawn from them sounds which have 
restored to lite nuisieal systems buried in oblivion IJur thirty centuries. These 
remiukable researches reiiuirc, no doubt, the control of criticism and the sanction 
of time, but it may confi<leutly be said that even now they open to science a 
vesom-ce not only suggestive but wholly new. Not that we are to Lope that the 
study of musi-al systems can ever actpiire an historical and ethnological value 
equal to that of linguistics. Music is a mode of expression less rich and far less 
precise than articulate language, and can only furnisli terms of comparison nnich 
more restricted. It is certain, moreover, that it is less closely connected with 
the life of the people, witL tLeir nationality, and tlie facts cited by jVL Fetis 
Limself prove tliat nations whose languages i)ertain to stocks entirely distinct 
Lave adopted tlie same musical system. But tlie means of investigation witL 
wLicL antLropology Las been tbus endowed are not tlio less valuable, since they 
reveal to us at once the artistic aptitudes of certain races and tLe communica- 
tions wliich have been established between them in times previous to Listory. 

I Lave thought proper to dwell somewhat on these researches, so new and so 
interesting, of which our society has enjoyed the first fruits, and which make, for 
the first time, their appearance in science. Arriving now at subjects if not more 
classic, at least more commonly known, I may restrict myself to more summary 
statements. 

General anthropology Las occupied, as usual, a large space in your labors. 
TLe question of tlie influence of cliuiatic mediums wLicL gave rise, tLree years 
ago, to so extended and complete a discussion, presented itself anew on occasion 
of tLe important memoir of M. Carlier on acclimation in America. No one could 
treat tins subject more competently tban tLe autLor of tlie Ilistoire dii peuple 
Amerkain. Although his long researches Lave borne principally on tlie popu- 
lations of Nortli America, M. Carlier Las also studied the acclimation of the negro 
race in the Antilles and in Brazil. That the races of the old world are acclimated 
in the States of the Union is demonstrated b}^ the rapidity with which the 
population has there increased; but to appreciate tlie signitication of tLis move- 
ment, it is necessary to distinguisL tlie intrinsic increase from tliat wLicL is due 
to immigration. TLis is wLat M. Carlier Las done, and we cannot too liighly 
praise the sagacity with which he has availed himself of all the statistical docu- 
ments, unfortunately incomplete, which have been collected in the United States 
since the beginning of the century. From these laborious researches it results 
that the intrinsic increase of the population Las sensibly slackened for 20 years 
past. The inquiries of our learned colleague have moreover established, contrary 
to the generally received opinion, that three-fourths of the immigrants are foreign 
to the Anglo-Saxon race. TLe etLnical importance of tins fact is considerable. 
M. ilameau, struck, like mvaxy otlier obseiwers, with the differences which exist 
between the Englisli of Europe and tlie Anglo-Americans, Las attributed tliese 
modifications to tLe influence of climatic mediuius, wLile, according to 51. Carlier, 
tLey are due principally to tlie influence of cross-breeding. The interesting dis- 
cussion which arose on this subject between our two colleagues seems to have 
left the subject undecided as regards the 13 primitive colonies which, at the close 
of the last century, founded the American Union. But for the 23 States which 
Lave been fonned since tlien, and several of wLicli date but from yesterday, it is 
diflicult to invoke a climatic influeiu^e wLicL can only Lave been exerted on two 
or at most tliree generations. M. Carlier Las insisted tliat tlu^ modifications pro- 
duced by climate cannot l)e luanifested in so sLort a lai)S(! of time. 

To coin])lete Lis investigation, our colleague Las studied the acclimation of the 
negro, not only in the United States but also in the Antilles and Brazil. This 
])art of his memoir jirocured us some interesting communications from j\I. ]\lartin 
de j\Ioussy on the state of the negroes in South America, and from M. Simonot 
on the questions of hybridity suggested by the study of the mulattocs. if the 



380 ANTHROPOLOGICAL SOCIETY OF PARIS. 

population of persons of color increases considerably in certain countries, it is not, 
accordino- to M. Siraonot, from its own fecundity but through the reinforcements 
it incessantly receives from continual crossings of the whites and blacks. To 
the numerous and weighty facts which M. Perier has brought together in his 
learned memoir on the cross-breeding of human races, and which authorize a 
doubt of the validity and fecundity of many h^'brid populations, M. Simonot 
adds another which, according to his own observation, would oppose a still more 
decisive obstacle to the fonnation of mixed races: the tendency, namely, which, 
after the lapse of some generations, restores gradually the descendants of hybrids 
to the type of one or other of the mother races. These phenomema of atavism 
have become difficult to be distinguished from the effects of crossings in a recur- 
rent direction, because hybrids of different bloods pair and mix on all sides, 
whether with one another or with individuals of pure race. But this complica- 
tion can be easil}'' avoided in experiments made upon the domestic animals : hence 
M. Sanson has been enabled to take his stand upon many precise facts in order 
to demonstrate the instability of the characters of hybrids. M. Pruner-bey 
pointed out, however, that conclusions drawn from the study of certain crossings 
might not be applicable to other crossings different from the former in the nature 
of the races or species, or in the conditions of the medium in which they are 
efiected. 

It is very probable, in effect, that these different circumstances have an influ- 
ence on the results of cross-breeding. It is necessary, above all, to take account 
of the degree of proximity of the races; and what results most clearh' from the 
researches of M. Perier is, that the disadvantages of cross-breeding are the more 
decided as the two mother races are more unlike. If the similarity of the parents 
constitutes a favorable condition, it is natural to think that, all things else being 
equal and abstraction being made of hereditary pathological influences, consan- 
guineous unions cannot become detrimental from the sole fact of consanguinity. 
It is thus that M. Perier has been logically led to connect the opposite, but yet 
reciprocally dependent, questions of hybridity and consanguinity. 

These two questions have, from the origin of the society, given rise to a great 
number of memoirs and discussions in which contradictory opinions have been 
brought to light. But I should speak here only of the facts which have been 
adduced within two j^ears past. I shall not recur, therefore, to the debates which 
were maintained some years ago, between MM. Boudin and de Ranee, adver- 
saries of consanguineous unions, and MM. Bourgeois, Perier, Dally, who denied 
the harmfulness of those unions. No one contested the reality of certain facts 
alleged against consanguinity ; all acknowledged that in families infected with 
constitutional vices or hereditary diatheses, mamage between cousins leads to 
unfortunate results; but these results were attributed by the one party to the 
consanguinitj' itself, while the other considered them but as a particular case of 
the accidents of inheritance. These last gave expression to their opinion by say- 
ing that hcaltlui consanguinity is exempt from bad effects. The question 
being stated in this form, it was no longer competent to seek here and there for 
sporadic examples which might appear more or less favorable to one or the other 
thesis. To avoid the chances of error resulting from individual accidents, it was 
necessary to study the efiects of consanguinity in some restricted and well-circum- 
scribed populations, in which unions between relations are habitual. This has 
been done with the greatest precision by our colleague, M. Voisin. The commune 
of Batz, situated on a small peninsula north of the mouth of the Loire, com- 
prises a population of 3,300 souls, devoted exclusively to the cultivation of the 
salt marshes. The special nature of this industry offers little attraction to 
strangers; hence it is very rare for an inhabitant to marry beyond his conunune, 
while consanguineous unions, even within the degree prohibited by the church. 
are extremely frequent. Thus, in the year 1865, there took place between cou- 
eins-german or their issue 15 marriages, tor which it was necessary to ask ecclesi- 



ANTHROPOLOGICAL SOCIETY OF TARIS. 08 1 

astical dispensation. It was in tlie midst of this consanguineous population that 
M. Voisin collected his observations. He did not content liiniselt with veriiyiui^ 
in a general manner the physical prosperity of tlie inlufoitauts. He has recorded 
the history of each iiousehohl, examined the parents and children, studied the 
births and deaths, and in a word prepared very complete genealogical tallies, in 
which is summed up all the information relating to 46 consanguineous mar- 
riages. In studying these tables, published at the end of the memoir, we cannot 
help recognizing with M. Voisin, that in a healthy population, consanguinity, 
even when superposed, involves none of the deterioration which has been attrib- 
nted to it. After having sojourned at Batz an entire month, and passed in review 
all the families, our colleague has ascertained that " neither vices of conformation, 
mental maladies, idiocy, cretinism, surdo-mutism, epilepsy, albinism, nor blind- 
ness from pigmentary retinitis, exists ki any individual, whether the issue or not 
of consanguineous parents." 

Analogous observations have been collected by M. Dally in the little isle of 
Brehat, (.Cotes-du-Xord,) and by M. Duchenne of Boulogne among the popula- 
tion of Portel. They are less rigorous, indeed, than those of M. Voisin, siuce 
they are not accompanied by genealogical tallies, but they are still very import- 
ant ; they are moreover confirmed by the zootechnical ol)servations oi which 
M. Sanson has presented ns a summary, and which are due to M. Renard of 
Issoirc, and M. Legrain of Brussels. M. Legrain has especiall}' turned his atten- 
tion to the production of all)inism in rabbits; it results from his experiments, 
divided into several series and conducted with great sagacity, that consanguinity 
never produces albinism among those animals when they are reared under good 
hygienic conditions; but that albinism manifests itself at the end of some gene- 
rations when the rabbits are ill-fed and lodged in dark and unclean warrens. 
Nothing could better justify the distinction advanced by M. Perier between 
healthy and morbid consanguinity than this example. 

The questions of consanguinity and hybridity, and the discussions to which 
they have given rise, natm'ally lead me to consider the numerous communications 
of M. Sanson on the characteristics of race and of species. It is, in effect, the 
study of the phenomena of generation, direct or crossed, which serves as a basis 
to the doctrine s.ustained with so much conviction by our colleague. 

The authors who have occupied themselves with the determination of species 
may be divided into two classes: one, and by far the more numerous class, makes 
, specific distinctions rest on the enseinhlc of the morphological and anatomical 
characters; the other, after the example of Bay, Bufibn, and M. Flourens, admits 
as a criterion of species only one sole and unique character purely physiological, 
namely, the perfect fecundity of sexual nnions. M. Sanson accepts at once both 
these zoological methods, which heretofore have disputed the suti'rages of savants; 
he holds them both as valid, but applies them to diflbrent cases. -He employs 
the physiological method for constituting the group called species, and avails 
himself exclusively of the anatomical method for the determination of the races 
of each species. These races are not, in his view, varieties resulting froui the 
sulidivisiou more or less tardy of a species previously uniform and homogeneous. 
They arc primordial, or, in other words, as ancient as the species itself; they are 
moreover permanent and immutable ; that isto say, neither the influence of climatic 
mediums, nor crossings, nor selection can cause them to deviate in a durable 
manner from their primitive type. In other terms, as M. Lagneau has expressed 
it, M. Sanson attributes to each of the races which compose a species the pro- 
l)erties and characters hitherto attributed by classic naturalists to the species itself; 
a sense which M. Sanson himself elsewhere conveys in saying that it was his 
object ''to introduce a substitution of race for sxtecies as the last term of natural 
classification." 

The doctrine of our colleague is in the end, therefore, but an emphatic and 
absolute form of polygcnisra. But the discussion to which it has given rise in 



382 ANTHROPOLOGICAL SOCIETY OF PARIS. 

this society has turned only upon general principles, and the special question of 
the permananco of human races has not been broached. While M. Gaussin 
contested the vahie of the exclusive jdiysioloD^ical character on which M. Sanson 
relies for the determination of species, MM. Lartet and Lagneau suggested 
doubts respecting the absolute permanence of races, and cited facts tending to 
demonstrate the formation of new races in domestic species, and even in wild 
species; and M. de Mortillet, relying chiefly on paleontology, went so far as to 
deny not only the permanence of races, but also that of species. The convictions 
of M. Sanson have not, however, been shaken by these objections, and his oppo- 
nents themselves have acknowledged the talent which he has displayed in this 
difficult line of inquiry. Questions of this class are among those which will be 
long, doubtless, the subject of controversy; but the discussion elicted b}^ M. 
Sanson has not been without its fruits : it has shown, in the first place, that the 
standard idea of species, considered as a natural, primordial, and permanent gi'oup, 
is far from sufficing to the actual needs of science; it has shown also that races 
to which it has been the custom to attribute a variability much too great, tend, 
on the contrary, for the most part, to maintain and perpetuate themselves without 
durable change: that the innumerable varieties obtained by crossings, selection, 
or culture have in general only a factitious existence, and that, left to themselves, 
they disappear if not always, at least almost alwa^'s, whether from the want of 
fecuudity or Irom the effect of the law of atavism, which, after a while, causes 
types momentarily effaced to reappear. 

I must pass in silence, but not without regret, a considerable number of ethnolo- 
gical facts, simply descriptive, which would lead to analytic details of too special 
a nature. As a subject of more commanding interest, and one which has always 
asserted a paramount claim to the attention of the societ}^, I proceed to notice its 
discussions respecting craniology. 

As the skulls presented to the societ}^ and destined to enrich its museum become 
more numerous, the more need is manifested of a recurrence to rigorous processes 
of measurement in order to institute truly scientific comparisons between the dif- 
ferent series. For geometric diagrams, for angular measures and triangulations, 
special instruments are indispensable; thej^ enable the observer to detect shades 
of difference which would otherwise escape the most practiced eye, and furnish 
moreover numencal data for the calculation of mean terms. Hence the commis- 
sioners to whom the society has intrusted the charge of preparing instructions lor 
craniometry have applied themselves particularly to the improvement of instru- 
ments for study. They have already presented us a new goniometer, light and not 
costly; a new craniograph qualified to delineate completely, by way of geometric 
projection, all the details of the surface of the cranium; and a small and very 
simple instrument, the sphenoidal crotchet {crochet)^ by means of which the 
sphenoid angle of AVelcker ma}' be measured without sawing the skull. Our col- 
league, M. Grenet, (de Barbezieux,) has also communicated a new process of 
triangulation of the skull and face, an ingenious expedient, the utility of which 
has been shown by M. Bertillon in his dissertation on cephalic angles. In tliis 
memoir, in which are collected all known facts relating to the facial angle of 
Camper and its derivatives, as well as the auricular angles and the angle of 
Welcker, M. Bertillon has recorded moreover the numerous obsei-vations made 
by himself on the different series of our museum, and has pointed out all the 
advantages to be derived from the judicious employment of statistical calculations, 
for correcting the errors or rather the divergencies which result from the diversity 
of the processes of mensuration. 

It was not the first time that the results of craniometry had been submitted 
before the society to the correction of mathematical methods. M. Gaussin had 
already applied algebraic formulas to the determination of the relations which 
exist between the three diameters of the skull, and had expressed these relations 
by the help of graphic constructions based on the system of rectilinear co-ordinates. 



ANTHROPOLOGICAL SOCIETY OF PARIS. 383 

Taking as a point of departure tlie measurements \vhicli lie had executed on the 
great series of crania known by the name of sJcidls of the citi/, he deduced a 
formula wliich he has since tested by its ap{)lication to the craniomctrical tables 
prepared, from series the most diverse, by JM. Pruner-ljcy, b^^ ]\DI. His and 
Kutimeyer, and by myself. Now, such is the precision of his calculations, that in 
every case where the formula applied to scries of skulls of the same type apj)eared 
to indicate divergencies, it has been ascertained that these depended on the 
dilVerence of the processes emjdoyed by the different observers for the measure- 
ment of the vertical diameter. The way opened by j\I. Gaussin in this remarka'ole 
memoir may be easily enlarged, for all the craniomctrical elements ma}' be made 
auxiliary to the same researches ; nor can it be necessary to point out the import- 
ance of a method whi(;h permits of reducing to the same standard observations 
collected according to different processes, and even of correcting what astrono- 
mers call the personal error. 

Our distinguished colleague, M. de Khanikof, also, bringing to the study of 
anthropology the aid of the exact sciences, has successfully applied the formula 
of M. Gaussin to the cephalometric measurements reported from Persia by M. 
Duhousset, who, operating on the living man, had only been able to obtain by 
approximation the length of the vertical diameter. In coufoi-mity with the 
general instructions published by the society, M. Duhousset has taken, to replace 
that diameter, the height of the plane of the vertex above the auditor}^ orifice. 
But the situation of this orifice in relation to the plane of the base of the cranium 
sensibly varies according to races. We might expect, therefore, to recognize a 
certain divergence betwe(^n the results of the cephalometric observations of l\i. 
Duhousset and the craniometric fornnila of M. Gaussin. This divergence has, 
liowever, proved very small ; in four out of six series of observations the result 
has been less than one millimeter and a half. The two series of Kurds and 
Hindoos alone have presented divergencies of three and four millimeters, which 
depend, doubtless, on variations in the position of the auditory canal. On this 
occasion M. Khanikof communicated to us the notes which he had collected in 
the museum of St. Petersburg on the height of the orifice above the plane of 
the occipital orifice. He has consigned them to a valuable table, in which figure 
most of the populations of Asia. 

But it is impossible to speak of craniometric tables without immediatel}^ recall- 
ing those W'ith which our former president, M. Pruner-bey, has enriched our 
memoirs and buUeihis. Thanks to him, we can now pursue, in the closet, the 
most precise study of the constitution of the skull and face of the greater number 
of the human races. The three great tables which accompany his memoir, 
entitled lUsultats de crdnlometrie, comprise more than 15,000 measurements 
taken on skulls derived from all quarters. Among them we find 117 African 
skulls, 165 from Oceanica, 82 American, 58 Asiatic, and 105 European skulls, 
ancient or modern. It would be in vain to seek elsewhere an equal amount of 
documents collected after imiform pnjcesses by the same observer. 'J'heso three 
tables present us, in a condensed form, the results of many years of circumstantial 
researches, and when we think of the immense labor they have cost we cannot 
but wonder how our colk^ague has found time to execute his great works in 
linguistics, and to treat, moreover, with so much competence the highest ques- 
tions of general and philosophic anthropology. The secret consists in his 
having enjoyed the happy jirivilege of preserving, in the maturity of age, the 
indefaligable ardor and the sacred lire of youth. Let us add that he is one of 
those rare men of science who have the good fortune to 1)0 able to devote them- 
selves entirely to the study, or rather the' religious culture, of anthropology. 
May the example he gives us find frequ(int imitators ! 

It is not here that 1 can hope to recaj)itulate all the craniological facts whicli 
liave been comnumicated to the society, llare it is for a single sitting to pass 
without an offerinff of new skulls. Avnonj]: those which have come from foreign 



384 ANTHROPOLOGICAL SOCIE fY OF TARIS. 

countries I shall content myself with mentioning the skulls of two Chellouhs, 
inhabitants of the banks of the Nile, presented l)y M. Lagarde ; the two skulls 
of Eed-skins, brought to us by M. Berchon ; the cranium of a Bechuana, sent 
by M. Lautre, missionary in southern Africa; the Egyptian head, and the skull 
of an Arab, which we owe to M. Perier; the curious deformed skull from the 
valley of Ghovcl, (Central America,) which the Abbe Brasseur de Bourbourg 
has contributed to our stores ; finally, and above all, the mogniticent head of an 
Australian, conveyed to us by. Professor Ch. Martins. This last piece, so remarka- 
ble in an osteological point of view, reveals to us a singular and heretofore 
unknown trait of Australian manners. It is mummified ; all the flesh of the 
head, desiccated and hardened to an extreme degree, is applied exactly to the 
bones; the half-opened mouth is filled with bird's feathers ; a string strongly 
knotted is passed through the cartilages of the nose. From what is known of 
the customs of the Australian tribes it is impossible to suppose that this head 
proceeds from a body embalnred or mummified by a methodical process. Every- 
thing leads to the conclusion that it is a trophy of war, dried and preserved as a 
memorial by the victor in some bloody afi'ray. 

A particular notice is due to two fine series of skulls collected in Syria by 
M. Girard de Rialle, and at Alexandria by our regretted colleague, SchnejJ'. 
The skulls from Alexandria date from the Greco-Roman epoch. The population 
of that great city then presented a confused mixture of nearly all the races of the 
ancient world. Hence the practiced eye of M. Pruner-bey has been able to 
detect in the collection of M. Schnepf, besides the skulls of Egyptian race, a 
still greater number of those of Greeks, Ilomans, Ligurians, Kegroes, and Syrians. 
The skulls of the collection of M. Girard de Eialle are derived, some from 
Damascus, the others from Rasheya. These last, to the number of 12, present 
a surprising nniformity, and appear to have been artificially distorted l)y an 
occipital compression. 

The European skulls presented have been too numerous to admit even of men- 
tion. Most of theili are referable to the man of the prehistoric era, or to certain 
existing populations which appear to be the issue of the primitive race of the age 
of stone. The conquering races which introduced into Europe the Aryan lan- 
guages and tlie use of metals did not destroy, as may have been supposed, the 
vanquished nations, but, by mingling with them, caused them to undergo, almost 
everywhere, modifications mor§ or less profound. Since that period new cross- 
ings, many times superposed, have changed more and more the character of the 
first races; now conquests, new migrations have, in some sort, transformed the 
greater part of the populations of Europe, and, in the midst of this almost inex- 
tricable intermixture, the exploration of ethnic origins has become one of the 
most complicated problems of our science. To dissipate this uncertainty two 
principal means lie open before us. These are, on the one hand, the study of 
those i)opulations which, according to the testimony of linguistics, have more or 
less resisted the foreign influence, and which, iu preserving their pre-Aryau lan- 
guages, have doul)tless also preserved, iu a degree of relative purity, the typo of 
the primitive races; and, on the other hand, the examination of the I'cmains 
which the popuU^tions of the age of stone have left in the soil, at prehistoric 
epochs whose succession has been determined by archeeology and palaeontology. 

The surviving witnesses of the primitive human fauna of Europe fonn now 
only two groups, confined to the two extremities of that part of the world, and 
resembling those summits still existing under the shape of islets in submerged 
regions— they are the Basques and the Fins. Our distinguished colleague, M. 
de Baer, thought that he had discovered among tlie Romans of the Rlietian Alps 
a third group of primitive populations; but this opinion, already refuted bj^ MM. 
His and Rutimeyer iu their Crania Helvetica, cannot sustain itself in presence of 
the facts embodied iu the two important memoirs which M. His has addressed to 
this Society. The brachycephalous population of the environs of Coire, far from 



ANTHROPOLOGIC A.L SOCIETY OF Px\RIS 385 

being representatives of the aiitochtlionoiis race, are, on the contrary, descendants 
of the AlcHKinl, (he last invaders of the conntry. The attention of the Society 
has been therefoi-e principally fixed on the Fins, with whom we may associate 
the Esthonians, and on the Basques. 

j\[. Beddoes, (of Clifton,) well known for liis researches respecting- the jjopula- 
tions of Scotland and Ireland, has connnnnicated to the Society the table of meas- 
nrements which he has taken of the heads of the Swedes and Finns. The last 
are distinguished by a decided brachycephalism, and differ from the Scandinavians 
not less by the conformation of the face than by that of the head. The absence 
of the Finnish skull constitutes in the museums of Paris a void much to be 
regretted. Last year, however, three skulls of Esthonians were given by M. 
Baer to the museum of natural history, and have been the subject of an import- 
ant communication of M. de Quatrefages. Although separated from the Finns 
by the Gulf of Finland, the Esthonians speak a dialect of the same language, 
and, notwithstanding the mixtures the}' may have nndergone, the greater part of 
them still ])reserve the characters of the Finnish race. Of the three skulls wliich 
j\I. de Quatrefages has j^resented to the Society, one is purely Mongolic; the sec- 
ond is so too, though in a less degree ; both are brachycephalous. The third is 
almost dolichocephalous, but is very similar to the second in the form of the face; 
like that, it is remarkable for a prognathism limited to the upper jaw. The lower 
maxillaries, on the contrary, have a vertical direction, and M. de Quatrefages has 
discovered in those bones all the characters of the famous jaw of Moulin-Quignon. 
Our eminent colleague is hence disposed to believe that the Esthonians are the 
remains of a race heretofore disseminated in western Europe, where it has long 
since disappeared through multiplied and jwedominative crossings, but where, 
nevertheless, it has left an influence wdiich is still manii'estcd here and there by 
the phenomena of atavism. The cases of alveolar prognathism which sometimes 
present themselves among our own people, especially in females, would thus find 
an explanation. These views, resting thus far upon l)ut two pieces, (for the first 
Esthonian skull, being toothless and dcj^rived of the lower jaw, cannot serve for 
the study of prognathism,) have need of further confirmation j but they are not 
unworthy, even now, of being regarded with high interest. 

As to the Bascpie skulls, tlie discussions to which they have given rise in the 
society are still pending. Nineteen new skulls, similar in all respects to the 
former GO, and, like them, nearly all dolichocephalous, have been sent to us by 
our zealous colleague, 'M. Velasco. But these, again, come from the cemetcny of 
Zaraus, and do not escape, consecpiently, the exclusion invoked by M. Pruner-bey. 
Every effort should be used, therefore, to procure Basque skulls from some other 
scene of production. The consignment made by M. Velasco had the advantage, 
however, of eliciting a new discussion, wdiich procured us the pleasure of hearing 
an instructive lecture of M. Pruner-bey on the Basque language. Without dis- 
avowing the analogies which have been pointed out between that language and 
the 'J'artar idioms, our colleague shows that these analogies are suiierlicial and 
of little significance. In his view' the Basque language constitutes a unique fact 
in the old continent, and has true aflinities only with the languages of America; 
but he does not think himself autliorized, from the aflinity of the languages, to 
infer the filiation of the poi)ulations. However this may be, the ideas S('t forth 
in this memoir arc l)ut little favcn-able t() the hypothesis of those who si rive to 
reduce to one single race all the i)rimitive, or rather j)re-Aryan, races of 
Europe. 

This qiu'stion of prehistoric races, thanks to the zeal of the arcluei 'logical 
anthnjpologists, lias made, within a short time, remarkable progress, l*" ranee, 
Switzerland, Belgium, the Britisli Isles, Scandinavia, are no longer the only coun- 
tries subjected to the investigations of our science. "^IMiere is now scarc'ely any 
country of Eurojjc which is a stranger to researches of this nature. Slo-re than 
one important prehistoric station has been discovered in Germany and Austria. 
25 s 



386 ANTHROPOLOGICAL SOCIETY OF PARIS. 

The publications of the anthropologicfil section of Moscow have made ns 
acquainted with excavations effected in the old tombs of Greater Russia, In 
fine, recent and numerous explorations made in Italy, in Spain, in Portugal, have 
shown, beyond dispute, that the two occidental peninsulas have also ha<l their age 
of stone. The results of the first researches of Caeiano de Prado were stated to 
the Society by M. Pruner-bey in an interesting report on Antliropologif in Spain. 
The discoveries of that savant, too soon lost to science, have been confirmed by 
j\I. Edouard Lartet, the worthy son of oiir eminent colleague. M. Pereira da 
Costa, moreover, has communicated the facts which relate to the antiquity of man 
in Portugal, chiefly in the basin of the Tagus. This is doubtless but a first 
harvest. The ideas which we possess respecting the primitive populations of 
Iberia are as yet too vague to furnish grounds for a synthesis; but facts more 
numerous and more precise, collected in the other peninsula, have shed quite a 
new light on the primitive conditions of the country. A Nicolucci, an Italia- 
Nicastro, a De Rossi, a Gastaldi, a Cocchi, a Canestrini, emulous in zeal and 
perseverance, have shown what science may hereafter expect from regenerated 
Italy. The Phoenician sepulchers of Sicily and Sardinia, explored by M. Italia- 
Nicastro, have furnished a large number of highly interesting archaeological facts. 
M. Nicolucci has sent us the description and figure of several of the skulls which 
have been obtained; and when these skulls are compared with those which are 
procured from the ancient tombs of Etruria Ave feel authorized to predict 
a day when the Semitic origin of the Etruscans will be definitively demonstrated. 
It is to M. Nicolucci, moreover, that we owe the first craniological ideas on the 
ancient lapyges, a population of southern Italy, of whom the historians of 
antiquity have made but vague mention, and whom it was the custom, not very 
long ago, to regard as autochthonous. M. Mommsen had already surmised, from 
inscriptions on their tombs, that certain characters distinguisliable in the remains 
of their language tended to all}^ them with the Indo-European group of nations. 
This view has been now fully confirmed b}^ our learned colleague, M. Nicolucci, 
who, having had an opportunity of studying three skulls found in lapygian 
tombs, has authenticated their resemblance to the Greek type. Collating this 
idea with the historical vestiges which he has been able to collect, he is led to 
think that the lapyges were a horde of Pelasgic origin, chased from Greece into 
Italy by the invasion of the Hellenes. This is still but an hypothesis ; but what 
appears almost certain is, that the lapyges were of foreign origin and that they 
were not the first occupants of the peninsula. If the lapyges and the Etruscans 
are to be considered as exotic branches, where shall we find the primitive races 
of Ital}^? The question, in as far as southern Italy and Sicily are concerned, is 
still very doubtful. The facts which M. Rossi has recently detailed to us with 
so much clearness establish the existence of a dolichocephalous population which 
occupied central Italy during that age of stone, which the poets, with perverse 
inspiration, have called the age of gold. But in northern Italy, in the ancient 
Liguria, there was a brachycephalous race, Avhich appears to have preceded all 
the oth.ers. This Ligurian race, which has bechi made known to us by the labors 
of M. Nicolucci, extended on the Mediterranean coast as far as southern France. 
Our illustrious colleague, the Duke de Luynes, has made many explorations in 
the sqU of these regions ; he has exhumed a great number of skulls, which M. 
Prune r-be\^ has exhibited to us, and in the greater part of Avhich he has pointed 
out th>e characters of the Ligurian race. 

It is, here that I might introduce the facts relating to the anthropology of 
France;, but these are to be the subject of a special report, which you liave con- 
fided to the learned pen of M. Lagneau. I cannot dispense, liowever, Avith a 
gratefi il recognition of our obligations to the activity and generosity of our archse- 
ologicf-il colleagues Avho, not content with enriching our bulletins Avith their inter- 
esting communications, have endowed our museum with a great number of articles 
the nio-re valuable for having their authenticity and date guaranteed by com- 



ANTHROPOLOGICAL SOCIETY OF PARIS. 387 

peteiit authorities. Thus, MM. Bertrand .in<l Loijnay Lave procnrcd for us a 
whole series of skulls and bones taken by themselves from the dolmen of Argen- 
tcuil, and M. de .Sanlcy has ij-iven us several skulls derived from the tumuli 
of Meloisey, (cote d'or,) and wliich date from the first age of iron. The Society 
has also received, thanks to the intervention of several of its members who formed 
part of the commission of the museum of St. Germain — thanks especially to JI. 
Bertrand, director of that museum — a tine series of skulls exhumed from the 
Gaulish cemetery of Saint Etienne-au-Templcj near Chalons-sur-iMarne. Sun- 
dry communications of M. Bonjou and M. Leguay have brouglit to our knowledge 
the results of tlie excavations made at Villancuve-Saint-Georges, in a station of 
the age of polished stone. M. Roujou has superadded the deseripticm of a num- 
ber of specimens of cut silex found in the dihivium of tlie environs of Paris, and 
of several hearths engaged in the loess near Cliois^'-le-Roi. M. Mauricet has 
presented to us bones extracted from the dolmen of Moustoir-Carnac, (Mor- 
bihan,) and the fac-simile of two human feet delineated on one of the lateral 
stones of the dolmen of Mout-en-Arzon. If we add to these the fine head from 
Quiberon, sent by M. de Closmadeuc, (of Vannes,) and the cut silex which Mif. 
Hamy and Sauvage have brouglit from Cliatillon, near Boulogne-sur-Mer, we shall 
still be far from having enumerated all the arclupological facts which relate to the 
.anthropologv of our country. But I should hardly 1)0 pardoned for quitting this 
subject without mentioning in a particular mantier the numerous ctmnuunications 
of M. de Mortillet on the prehistoric epochs. The learned editor of the Mafe- 
riaux jwur VHistoire Posilice cf I'hilosophique de VHoinmc leaves us not in igno- 
rance of any of the important facts \\ Inch throng from all quarters to his journal, 
and if we are ever at a loss for information we are sure of finding it with him. 

Tlie greater part of the archaeological documents of wliich I have just spoken 
relate to the epoch of polished stone, which preceded the age of bronze; tliat is 
to say, the inange.ration of tlie Indo-European era, Tlie ages which afterwards 
elapsed till the advent of written history, and which are designated by the name 
of the Celtic ejioch, are accessible by several means of investigation. Anthro- 
pology relies not here solely on arcliaMtlogy ; it derives light from the torch of 
linguistics, and even from tlu^ first glimmerings c)f history. A note of ]M. Henri 
Martin on the Cimmerian niigratifnis, a leiirned memoir of M. Georges on the 
origin of the Celts, have adiled new facts to those which found a place, three 
years ago, in the discussions of the society on the original sources of the Euro- 
pean populations. On the other hand, our veneralde foreign associate, jM. d'Oma- 
lius d'lialloy, whose green old age sets at naught the ravages of time, has main- 
tained, in a remarkable* and highly applauded work, the ()bjections which he had 
previously raised against the prevailing doctrine; and it is impossible not to 
recognize that, if linguistics be in a position to demonstrate the Asiatic origin of 
the Aryan languages, anthropological observatitm does not permit us to consider 
all the poi)ulation,s which to-day speak those languages as descendants in a direct 
line of one and the same people. Tlie diversity of types of the modern Indo- 
Europeans can only be explained by the sunuvorship of autochthonous populations, 
which, already differing at the epoch of the Asiatic invasion, have been crossed 
with tln'ir conquerors, and have maintained the dissimilarity of races even where 
the relationship of idinms seemed to indicate a common origin. 

The multitude of the rnces of prehistoric Europe, which forces itself on the 
mind as the necessary ex[)lanation of the actual .state of things, results directly 
and iucontestably from the study of the skulls of the age of stone. In the dis- 
^,ussion whi(;Ii has been raised on the craniological type of the men of that epoch, 
j.icts ai)|)arently contradictory and yet ])erl'ectly reconcilable have been laid before 
the Society. <}ii the one hand, it has been estfiblislied that a very great majority 
of the skulls of the (lolniens arc dolichocephalous, contrary to th<^ f>j)inion of 
lictzins. This is true, not only for France but also for Great Britain, and very 
probabl}'^ even for Sweden, the country of that celebrated naturalist ; for it will 



388 ANTHROPOLOGICAL SOCIETY OF PARIS. 

be recoil cvtecl tliat the 20 skulls taken by MM. Van Duben and Retzius, jr., 
from the megalitliic sepulclir3 of Luttra, in West Grotliland, were all doliclio- 
cephalons, with the exception of a single one. On the other hand, however, the 
researches already mentioned of MM. Nicolucci and Pruner-bey establish with 
entire clearness the brachycephalous character of the race which, before the era 
of metals, occupied Liguria and the coast of Provence. At the era, then, of pol- 
ished stone Europe already bore on its soil at least two distinct races. But those 
times which preceded all our histories, and which seem now so remote from us, 
appear, on the contrary, almost recent when opposed to the incalculable periods 
which palaeontology has revealed to us, and which, temiinating with the epoch 
of the reindeer, reascend even to the epoch of the elephant, the rhinoceros, the 
great bear of the caves, and probably still higher, without onr being able to fix 
the limit to which ulterior discoveries shall carry back the origin of h.uman kind. 
During the first years of its existence, the Society of anthropology had occa- 
sion more than once to submit to study the question of the antiquity of man. 
At present, all discussion on this subject would be idle. The existence of the 
fossil-man, of the man of the quarternary period, cotemporary of the great 
pachydermata, is a fact definitively verified by science. If some protestations 
are sHll raised here and there against the evidence, it is not among us that they 
originate. I have made a small collection of works which have been published 
in Prance, in the 19th century, against the heresy of the rotation of the earth. 
Can we hope that the discovery of M. Boucher de Perthes should find more favor, 
in certain quarters, than the discovery of Copernicus? Leave we then, as the- 
Scripture says, the dead to bury their dead, and let us pursue our work without 
occup3'ing ourselves with the attacks directed against us by men of the past. 

We, too, love the past; but above all we love to study it, and it is not our fault 
if the records of the past extend far beyond the limits which it has been customary 
to assign to them. Our curiosity is no longer content with knowing whether there 
were men on the earth in palpeontological times. It asks wdiat was the social 
state of those men ; what their physical characters ; whether they alread}' con- 
stituted several distinct races ; whether they differed from those who still later 
learned to polish stone ; and, finally, whether the immense period which elapsed 
between the epoch of the mammoth and that of the reindeer, between that of the 
reindeer and that of the dolmens, did not see, like the infinitely shorter periods 
which have succeeded them, the human fauna of quaternary Europe ofttimes 
renewed and revolutionized by great movements, migrations, and conquests 
of the populations then existing? These questions of so high an interest are still 
far from a solution. Nevertheless, man}' important data have been already 
obtained, and justify us in presaging for a future, not far distant, satisfactory 
responses. 

As regards industry, represented chiefly by instruments of silex, JM. de Mor- 
tillet has shown us that it made gradual advances during the. ages in question. 
In the lower deposits of the diluvium of Abbeville the axes are lance-shaped, 
and have been cut with rude and heavy blows, forming large fragments. In the 
argillaceous-sandy stratum which covers the diluvium, which is consequently more 
modern, and in which no bones of the mammoth have been discovered, the axes 
are elliptical, much elongated, and were cut with light blows, leaving small frag- 
ments. Finally, in the superficial stratum called the movable or loose forma- 
tion of the slopes, the axes are polished, wedge-like, and similar to those found 
in the dolmens. Were these successive modifications of the same branch of 
industry attributable to gradual improvements or to the arrival of new popula- 
tions? The memorable discoveries of M. Lartet, those especially which he has 
made in the caverns of Perigord, with the co-o})eration of our regretted col- 
league, Christy, authorize us to consider the latter supposition as highly probable. 
The inhabitants of Perigord possessed only cut silex ; but they had reached a 
state of civilization and of artistic development altogether surprising. It is hard 



ANTHROPOLOGICAL SOCIETY OF PARIS 389 

to conceive how men destitute of tlic use of metals were able to fabricate of 
bone, ivory, the antlers of the reindeer, an infinite variety of very delicate nten- 
sils; to carve, I had almost said to chisel, elegant forms, and to represent by 
designs engraved in line on the handles of their instruments the iignres of differ- 
ent animals, 'i'hese figures are distinguished by an exactness and artistic skill 
truh' remarkable, and to find in an equal degree the sentiment of art it would 
be necessary to revert, through many centuries, to the better times of Greece. 
They form a contrast so absolute with the rude delineations traced on some Cel- 
tic monuments, that it might be asked whether they have not been designed, 
since the historic era, by fugitives who may have sought refuge in tile caves of 
our ancient troglodytes. But what other than tlie man of the quaternary period 
could Lave designed in Europe, on the bones or horns of the reindeer, the figure 
of a species of elephant whicli differs from all living species? This race of men, 
so interesting through its civilization, led a peaceable existence. A skull found 
in the grotto of Bruni(piel,of which M. Bran has sent us the photograpli, is dis- 
tinguished by the })urity of its form, the softness of its outlines, the little 
, prominence of the apophyses, the slight depth of the muscular insertions ; 
characters incompatible with the violent habits of a savage or barbarous race. 

What, then, became of this indigenous civilization, so original, soditferent from 
all those which are known to us'? Was it modified by slow degrees and trans- 
forroed to the extent of becoming at last wholly unrecognizable? No; it has 
disappeared in the mass without leaving any trace, and everything tends to the 
belief that it perished by force. After it, without transition, we find only the 
impress. of a powerful race, religious and warlike, furnished with improved 
arms and familiar with the polishing of silex, but otherwise little addicted to 
industr}' and altogether alien to the notion of art. There are here all the indi- 
cations of a brutal and successful invasion. The troglodytes of the age of stone, 
who had learned to conquer the soil and to destroy the last remains of the great 
mammals of the quaternary fauna, knew not how to defend themselves against 
the irruption of the bar}>arians, and an intermediate prehistoric age was inter- 
polated as successor to the bright epoch of a premature civilization, whose origin 
is thus far wholly unknown. 

These men of the age of the; reindeer, so much advanced in certain respects 
were probably the descendants, l)ut the softened and cultivated descendants, 
of the rude savages of the epoch of the diluvium. Oftener than once, in the soil 
of the same caverns, the lower strata are found to have enclosed the remains of the 
rhinoceros and the mammoth, while the superficial layers contained only the relics 
of the reindeer. The industry of which silex constituted the material had, from the 
first to the second epoch, been a little modified, but not transformed; and if a more 
regular cutting, with small fragments, had replaced the more rudimentary execution 
of earlier days, it was still by pure and simple percussion, without any process of 
abrasion, that the silex was elaborated. These changes moreover scarcely appear 
except in the fabrication of the axes; the knives continued to present a remark- 
able uniformity. It is probable, in fact, that the art of design was already known 
to the cotemporaries of the Ursus spvlrcus. This would appear at least to result 
i'rom the curious figure which that indefatigable explorer of the caverns of the 
Pyrenees, M. Garrigou, has discovered on a silicious stone, taken by him from a 
grotto cf)ntaining fossil bones. This figure represents a l)ear which, in the length 
of the spinal apophyses of its neck, resembles luon; the bear of the caves than 
any other species of the same animal. If the interpretation of i\[. Garrigou be 
confirmed, it will be interesting to have thus found the origin of the art of design 
among a race, susceptible, no doubt, of improvement, but whicli, at the epoch in 
question, was half-savage, and which perhaps was still committed to the j)rac- 
tice of anthropophagisin. M. Garrigou, in effect, and ^I. Ronjou after him, 
have exhibited to the societv several human bones on which are seen the traces 



390 ANTHROPOLOGICAL SOCIETY OF PARIS. 

of methodical percussions designed to open tLe medullary canal and peniiit tlie 
extraction of the marrow. 

Thus we have arrived at the most ancient known epoch in the life of mankind. 
"What were at that time the physical characters of man"? The l)ones of the mem- 
bers Avhich have been found prove that the stature was of little height ; and 
though the skulls or remains of skulls are still quite rare, it may be considered 
as very nearly demonstrated that our predecessors of the quaternary had the 
head small, with retreating forehead, and oblique jaws. But a graver and more 
critical question here presents itself. Our young, but already distinguished col- 
league, M. Dupont, in tlie excavations which hehas conducted during several years 
fi)r the Belgic government on the banks of the Meuse, between Liege and Naraur, 
discovered, several mouths ago, among the bones of the rhinoceros and mam- 
moth which occupy the lower stratum of the cavern of Naulette, a strange jaw, the 
zoological characters of which might at first seem to be equivocal. From its general 
form this skull appeared human, and was so in effect; but in the details of its con- 
formation, its excessive thickness, the total absence of the prominence of the chin, 
finall}' and cliietly, in the character of the dentition, which is a character of the first 
order, it deviated considerably from the human type, while approximating to that 
of the anthropoinori)hous apes. Analogous traits, though less decided, had been 
already recognized in the jaw extracted by the Marquis de Vibraye from the 
cavern of Arcy-sur-Aube, the authenticity of which is not now to be questioned. 
In order to find in our actual humanity some of these characters, and even tlien 
mucli mitigated, it is necessary to descend to the lowest types of Australia and New 
Caledonia. The latter, it would follow, form not, as had till now been supposed, 
the last, or if you like, the first terra of the human series. The quaternary man 
takes his place below them, and thus diminishes the interval which separates 
man from his zoological neighbors. But what is the signification, tlie import, of 
this fact? Must we recognize in this a proof of the transformation of species, or 
only a proof of the serial distribution of organic forms, of wiiich the Darwinian 
theory is but a hypothetic explanation? 

This doubt still subsists, notwithstanding the discussions to which so grave a 
subject could not fail to give rise. If it were demonstrated that the type of the 
man of Naulette, by successive and secular modifications, had been gradually 
improved so as to be elevated to our own, it cannot be dissembled that this would 
aftbrd for the Darwinists a very potent argument. But do we know in what 
manner the quaternary races have made place for those of following ages ? What 
is there to prove that the succession of types has not been the consequence 
of a substitution of races? Do we not now see, at many points of America and 
Oceanica, this substitution going on ; the races of Europe taking the place of the 
indigenous races ? Let us avow, then, that as yet the facts we possess are too 
few to solve this vast pi'oblem of the origin of the human kind, and let us wait 
till new discoveries bring us more numerous and decisive indications. The truth, 
Vvhatever it may be, need not disquiet or humiliate us. Whether man has 
received his royalty as a congenital appanage, or valiantly conquered it after a 
long series of evolutions and struggles, does he not always remain master of the 
eai'th? He who knows how to manage as a docile instrument the blind forces 
of nature, who makes of electricity his messenger, who weighs the planets, and 
analyzes by photochemistry even the substance of the sun — will it be for him to 
blush at any revelation respecting an origin buried in the immeasurable depths 
of the past? No ; the discussion in this Society, so complete, so conscientious, 
so learned on the doctrine of the human kingdom, sustained with so much ability 
by MM. Pruner-bey and de Quarterfages, sufiiced to show that man, to maintain 
his rank in nature, has no need of undervaluing or degrading the l)eings which 
surround him. All the speakers, without exception, recognized the intelligence 
of animals, and discerned in them the germ of intellectual faculties, of senti- 
ments and passions, which have acquired their full development, their full expan- 



ANTHROPOLOGICAL SOCIETY OF PARIS. 391 

sion, only Avitliin the circle of lmui.au society. If MM. Alix, Rocbct, Voisiu, 
sig'ualizecl, uuder differcut points of view, the sui)ei-ionty, uncontested as 
it is, of man, MM. Sanson, Letourneau, Simouot, Rijujou, Gaussin, and others 
pleaded, with not less conviction, the cause of animals. The disputation, it is 
true, turned only on a single character, on that which henceforth will serve exclu- 
sively as a basis for th<! conception of the human kingdom, on the religious sen- 
timent. It imported first of all to know whether this sentiment necessarily 
exists among all the tribes of men; whether it is si'llicieutly universal to serve 
as the characteristic of luunanity. While ]\[]\I. Quatrefages, Pruuer-l)ey, ^Mar- 
tin de Moussy, have no doubt of this, the opposite thesis was sustained by JMM. 
Prat, Letourneau, Dally, Coudereau, and Lagneau. Let us not be surj)rised at 
these divergencies of opinion, inseparable from a subject Avhich connects itself 
uith all the UK^st arduous questions of ])sychology. l>ut let us recall with satis- 
faction that in this interesting debate, in which everything was in play that might 
rouse the feelings, and opinions the most contradictory found the utmost freedom 
of expression, no germ of discord was allowed to take root. . Every one proved 
himself capable of respecting the convictions of his neighbor, and urbanity of 
language, the consequence of reciprocal esteem, constantly sustained tlie discus- 
sion at the level of the serene heights of science. 

I am very far from having finished, and yet it is necessaiy that I should 
stop. Time would fail me to complete the analysis of the labors which 
have so fully occupied our sessions. I liavQ been obliged to pass in silence 
many interesting facts, many important discussions. But if I have not been 
able to accomplish all my task, let the blame fall where it is due ; by the 
aggrandizement of the field of research, bv the multiplicity of their produc- 
tions, my colleagues of the society have themselves rendered it impossible to 
condense in a few pages the results which have been accomplished. Thanks 
to their persevering eflbrts, the impulsion given to anthropological studies 
increases from day to day ; the movement of our science becom<?s generalized, 
and is propagated in all parts of the world. It suffices to cast a glance on the 
first steps of the society to recognize with just satisfaction the extent of the 
route which has been traversed in less than eight years. What has been done in 
so short a space of time is a sure guarantee of what will be effected in the 
future. 



DRILLING m STONE WITHOUT METAL. 



BY CHARLES KAU. 



Some archsBologists, among tliem Sir John Lubbock, incline to the opinion 
that the perforated stone axes and lianimers which have been found in Europe 
arc to be referred to^tlie beginning of the bronze period. ]\Iany of those imple- 
ments doubtless belong to the age of bronze ; they have frequently been discov- 
ered in connection witli bronze articles in ancient graves, and it is, moreover, 
well known that the manufacture and use of stone weapons and implements were 
everywhere continued for a long time after the introduction of bronze. These 
facts, however, furnish no evidence for ascribing pierced stone implements gene- 
rally to the period in which the use of bronze was already known ; in many cases, 
on the contrar}^, it may be inferred from the nature of their finding-places, as well 
as from the character of their perforations, that they belong to the stone age 
proper. In the illustrated catalogue of the collection in the Copenhagen museum, 
edited by Mr. J. J. A. Worsaae,* there are eleven representations of pierced 
stone implements attributed to the age of stone, and the foremost objects, 
figured to illustrate the bronze period, consist of seven perforated stone axes, 
distinguished by elegant shape and superior workmanship. Though I am not 
acquainted with the particular circumstances of the discover^' of these implements, 
I have not the least doubt that the learned editor of the catalogue, in referring 
them respectively to the ages of stone and bronze, based his classification on 
cenable grounds. 

A number of those lacustrian pile-works, which pertain exclusively to the stone 
age, have yielded stone axes and hammers, as, for instance, the station of Nuss- 
dorf, on the Lake of IJ eberlingen, (an arm of the Lake of Constance) where no less 
than fifty have been found. Mr. Desor, on whom I rely for these facts, also mentions 
that in another lacustrian station of the stone age the articles in question are con- 
fined to the upper part of the " archaeological stratum," that is, the stratum which 
contains relics of art. Pierced implements, therefore, would seem to belong, in 
those localities at least, to a later epoch of the stone age, and thus to mark a 
phase of progress in the gradual development of human skill during that period. t 

After a careful examination and ovmparison of the shaft-holes of European 
stqne implements, I have arrived at the conclusion that two different methods, 
or, at least, two differently shaped drills were employed in making them. The 
more perfect perforations are of equal width, smooth and shining, and exhibit at 
certain distances circular striae or furrows, which have the appearance of a suc- 
cession of parallel rings. These perforations, I think, have been drilled with a 
hollow cylinder, perhaps a bronze tube, and I believe that the implements pierced 
in the manner described were n)0stly manufactured during the age of bronze. 
They are, moreover, very aften remarkable for elegance of outline and high 
■finish, indicating a state of art superior to that which is generally supposed to 
have existed in Europe during the period of stone. In other specimens the 

* Worsaae, Nordiske Oldsat^er i det Kongelirre Museum i Kjobenhavn, 1859. 
t Desor, Palafittes, or Lacustrian Coustructions of the Lake of Neuchatel ; Smithsonian 
Eeport tor 1865, p. 359, (note.) 



DRILLING IN STONE WITHOUT METAL. 



393 



li^.l 




sliaft-liolcs are likewise more or loss smooth, but destitute of the annular stria?, 
and sometimes narrower in the middle, in wliich cases, of course, a circular })ro- 

tuberauce of coiTespondint^size is formed. (Fig. 1.) 
These holes evidently were drilled I'roni two sides, 
and the drilling" implement was not a hollow cylin- 
der, but a solid body, prt)bably a wooden stick. 
]\Iost of the axes and hammers provided with shaft- 
holes of this character are perhaps relics of the age 
of stone. It is hardly necessary to state that with- 
out the application of water and hard sand, drilling 
with either implement, hollow or solid, would have 
been impossible, and that the sand is to be considered as the chief agent in the 
process. 

I had occasion to examine a number of European stone hatchets and hammers, 
which were in an unfinished state, the shaft-holes being only commenced or 
drilled half through, and the appearance of the latter perfectly corroborated my 
view concerning the different shapes of the drills used in making them ; for some 
of these unfinished holes, and just such as belong to the striated class, have at 
the bottom a conical projection or a core, (Fig. 2,) which obviously resulted from 

the application of a hollow 
drilliuii" implement ; while 



lH(i. 2. 




v^/mm 



others (Fig. 3) terminate 
in a rounded concave bot- 
tom, resembling exactly the 
cavity made by a wooden 
stick used as a drill.* I 
, . , . ,/. ; ,, , .... ^^ ./. would not express this lat- 

ter opinion so positively, if I could not rely on the results of experiments, having, 
in fact, succeeded in perforating a hard stone without any use of metal by means 
of a stick, in connection w^ith sand and water. An account of the method 
employed by me, and of the results, I hope will be of interest to those archfe- 
ologists who pay some attention to the minor details of their study. 

In the first place, I will give a description of my drilling imjjlement, (Fig. 4,) 
which is, in fact, a pump-drill, the same apparatus that was used in former times by 
the Iroquois for the purpose of ])roducing lire by friction. t It consists of a round 
wooden shaft, al)0ut four feet long and an inch in diameter at the upper end, 
but tapering a little towards the lower extremity, where it is provided with a 
heavy wooden disk, which acts as a fly-wheel. A bow or bent stick, three feet 
in length, with a long string attached to it, forms the second part of the a])paratus. 
When used the string of the bow is passed through a notch cut in the top end of 

* It afforded me some satisfaction to find my views confirmed, to a certain extent, in a 
work of Dr. Gustav Kleiiim. This autlior first alludes toGutsniuUis, vvlio published an article 
in the " Morgeiiblatt," (18^'J, No. y.jii, ) in which he tried to prove tliat a liolluw cylinder of 
metal, used with emery iu the manner of tootiiless stone saws, was tij(! drillinn;' iinpleuient of 
the ancients, basino; liis opinion upon the same facts which 1 already fiave stated, namely, 
the regularity ot tii(; holes, the core at their bottom, and ilie circular furrows. Klcnun him- 
self possessed in his collection a hollow bronze tube, five incljes lonp, three-quarters iif an incli 
in diameter, and covered all over with preen rust, \.\\icivrugo nulnlis of antiquaries. Willi 
such implements, hetlmught, the shatt-holes iuid (generally been drilled, " but continued ob.-er- 
vation," he says, "convinced me that other methods also must have been employed. A 
stone axe of niy collection, bored from two sides, exljibits conical cavities, tiie shajn' of whicli 
'at once excludes the idea that a iiollow cylinder was used in drilling them ; the implement 
with which they weie made, probably iu a slow and painful way, evitlently w^as a solid 
body." (Klcinin, AUgmicincCullmicisscnsc.luiJt, ll'crlizcugc ittitl Wujj'in, Lripzif^, l>i')4, p. 71).) 

tMoifjun, League of tiie Iro(pu)is, Kochester, lc5], description and figiue on pafjfe 381. 
Mr. Tylor pivcs likewise, on pa^e 2iC> of his valuablt; " Kescarches into the Early History 
of Mankind," (Lundon, IHf!.'). ) adrawin;^ ol the ajjparatus, but reiJrescnls it us b(ring moved 
with one liand oidy. In order to maintain the equilibrium of tiie shaft, it is necessary to 
aj)ply both hands to the bow. 



394 



DRILLING IN STONE WITHOUT METAL. 



M(J.4:. 




the stick and coiled around the stick, as indicated in the drawing. The boAV is 
then seized with both hands and pressed downwards with a violent jerk> This 
motion nncoils the string and revolves 
the shaft towards the left, Init by the 
action of the fly-wheel the string is 
coiled again around the shaft in a re- 
verse manner, and the bow drawn up 
again. A second jerk at the bow causes 
the shaft to revolve tow'ards the right, 
and by continuing this manipulation it 
is alternately swung around in opposite 
directions. The operator has it alto- 
gether in his power to work the appa- 
ratus slowly or rapidly, and, of course, 
with coiTesponding effect ; but it re- 
quires some practice to use it in the 
proper manner. 

The stone selected by mc for the ex- 
periment is a flat, oval piece of diorite, 
of great hardness, not quite seven inches 
long, about five inches wide, and in the 
middle part one inch and three-eighths 
(a little over 3.5 centimeters)'thick. I 
chose purposely that kind of stone, be- 
cause it is the same of which the ancient 
inhabitants of Europe very often made 
their pierced implements. It is both 
hard and tough. These qualities were 
likewise appreciated by the North American aborigines, who used diorite exten- 
sively as the material for their tomahawks, large chisels, and pestles. The stone on 
which I operated is so hard that the point of a well-tempered penknife produces no 
scratch on its surface, but merely a metallic streak. The material used in drilling 
was a sharp quartz sand of middle grain, such as is employed in marble-yards ; for a 
short time I also tried emery, but finding that it was not more effectual than sand, I 
continued to apply the latter. In order to render a beginning of the perforation pos- 
sible, I tied a small square piece of board in which I had cut around hole, correspond- 
ing to the lower diameter of the drilling-stick, with a string to the stone, just above 
the place where the bore was to be conrmenced. Without this contrivance, which 
I had to retain during the whole drilling process, the stick would constantly have 
slipped out of the hole. After these preparations I could begin the W(n-k, which 
was not very fatiguing, but tedious beyond description, taxing, in fact, my patience 
to the utmost degree. I never could endure the work for more than two^ hours 
in succession, and sometimes I laid the stone aside for weeks and months, until 
I had mustered sutlicient energy to resume the labor. Thus it took two 3'ears 
before I succeeded in piercing the stone. I cannot exactly state how many 
hours I devoted to the work, but by measurement I obtained the I'esult that two 
hours of constant drilling added, on an average, not more than the thickness of 
an ordinary lead-pencil line to the depth of the hole. The work would have 
advanced with incomparably greater speed, if I had selected a softer stone, ser- 
pentine, for instance, instead of the hard diorite ; it was, however, my object to 
try the experiroent on a hard mineral substance. Every five or six minutes the 
bore had to be cleaned by immersing the stone in water, the sand being In' that 
time perfectly ground, and forming, in connection with the water and the j^arti- 
cles of wood rubbed from the stick, a sort of paste, which was no longer ser- 
viceable for drilling. The quantity of sand introduced after every cleaning was 
about etpial to the contents of a teaspoon. The shortening of the drilling-stick, 



DRILLING IN STONE WITHOUT METAL. 



395 



Jilt 



il'O. 




in consequence of wear, was considerable, and I bad to replace it several times. 
The first was of toug-h ash wood ; the others, which consisted of pine wood, 
proved to be just as officiont. 

In the beginning of the work there appeared at the place of perforation a 
smooth, round spot. Becoming gradually larger, it formed a shallow basin, which 
finally, when the stone was drilled half through, assuuied the appearance of a 
conical or funnel-shaped cavity, 'i'he deeper the drill penetrated into the stone 
the nu)re difficult the work became, which induced me, after having drilled 
through half the thickness of the stone, to begin another bore at the opposite 
side. In due time it met the first exactly in the middle. It was originally my 
intention to drill a lude of aboiit three-quarters of an inch in diameter, but I had 
not made sufficient allowance for the lateral friction of the saiul, and hence it 
happened that the two conical cavities forming the perforation acquired, much 
against my wish, greater proportions than I expected, measuring, in fact, an inch 
and a quarter in their widest diameters. They would have become narrower 
as well as more cylindrical, if I had used a drill half as thick as that which served 
in the operation 5 but when I made this discovery- the work was already too far 

advanced to be commenced again. Fig. 5 
shows the present shape of the perforation. 
It is round and smooth, without exhibiting 
those circular furrows, which I have already 
ascribed to the action of a hollow drill. In 
order to complete the task in its fullest 
extent by producing a perfectly cylindri- 
cal hole, it would be necessary to remove, 
by continued drilling, the projectingrim between the dotted lines : a laborprobably 
requiring as much time as that hitherto consumed. I cannot say whether I shall 
have sufiicient leisure and palieuce to perform it ; for the present I am satisfied 
with the fact of having; perhaps, practically illustrated one of the methods of 
drilling employed during the age of stone. Of course, it would be rashness on my 
part to assert that the apparatus used by me had also served as a drilling imple- 
ment in ancient Europe ;.yet the possibility cannot be denied, for just as the 
Iroquois invented it for producing fire, the ancient nations of Europe may have 
constructed it for another purpose. Mr. Desor thinks it probable that the drill- 
ing was effected by means of very thin flakes of flint fixed around a stick, which 
was made to turn in such a way as to separate a portion of the stone, which, 
when the perforation was accomplished, would fall to the ground.* A drllling- 
-TTj. p stick of this description really may have served for per- 

J' forating soft stones, but could not be successfully ajiplicd 

to hard materials. I operated myself with such a diill 
on diorite, and found the flint flakes invariably break olf 
alter the first revolutions. Yet, whatever may have been 
. the means employed in diilliiig stone in the pre-h'.storic 

I W^ 9 ages of Europe, it is certain tliat the carefully fashioned 

* 3 and pierced implements must have possessed a very high 

value in the eyes of their manufacturers. Some indication 
of this fact is offered by the occurrence of the edged halves 
of axes broken across the shaft-hole, which liM been ren- 
dered sen'iceable again l)y a second perforation. A speci- 
men of this kind, of which the annexed reduced sketch 
(Fig. (i) presents the upper view, is preserved in the Fea- 
l)0(ly Museum at Cambridge, jMassachusetts. It was foimd 
in northern (icnnany. The shaft-hole, which lias been left in an unfinished 
state, evidently was formed by a solid drill. The material of this relic is 
variet}'^ of greenstone. » 



r 




TalafiUes, Sec, p. :559. 



396 



DRILLING IN STONE WITHOUT METAL 



In Nortli America the grooved tomaliawk Avas, anterior to the occupation by 
Europeans, the prevailing- implement of the axe-shape ;* but pierced articles of 
this class also have been found, thouo-h not very frequently. Several are 
figured on page 218 of the " Ancient Monuments of the Mississippi Valley," by 
Squicr and Davis. The material of most of those which I have seen is a rather 
soft stone of a greenish color, with darker veins or spots, capable of a fine polish. 
These perforated axes are mostly small, but very symmetrically shaped and highly 
finished. They were most probably worn on handles as badges of distinction by the 
superiors,f a supposition which gains strength from the fact that tlieir material ren- 
ders them unfit for real use. I know by experience that they occur from the Missis- 
sippi to the Atlantic coast. The peculiar stone of which they consist was also used 
for other objects, (the so-called gorgets, amulets, &c.,) and may have been an article 
of trade. The shaft-holes of these hatchet-like implements are exceedingly regular, 
and the annular stride can often plainly be distinguished. They were doubtless 
produced by means of hollow drills, as will be seen hereafter. In addition to 
the perforated Indian axes just mentioned, there occur others, which are remarkable 
for being only pierced to a cei'tain depth. It is true, I have not seen these latter 
very frequently, but in sufficient number to become convinced that the shaft- 
holes were purposely left in an unfinished condition. Their material is not the 
soft stone already referred to, but a harder substance, usually some kind of green- 
stone. They always present pretty much the same shape. The annexed half- 
size sketch (Fig. 7, upper and side view) shows the outline of one of these imple- 

Fig. 7. 




ments, which was found in western Massachusetts, and is now in the possession 
of Dr. Davis, of New York. The core at the bottom of the shaft-hole, which 
is indicated by dots, affords an indubitable proof that a holhnv drill was employed. 
To render this implement serviceable for use, or even for show, a handle was 
driven as far as possible into the shaft-hole, and probably more firmly bound to 

*SomG ethnological writers, McCuUoh and Schoolcraft, for instance, consider these 
Stone axes as tools, and not as weapons ; whereas it is most probable that they served boib 
purposes, as occasion required. Men who were confined to the use of stone implements 
cannot be expected to have been very choice in their applications. A stone tomahawk, 
firmly attached to a withe, presented a very efficient battle-axe, Mr. Catlin gives, on plate 114 
(vol. 2 ) of his well-known work, the portrait of Mens6nseah (the Left Hand,) a Piankeshaw 
warrior, whom he represents with a helved stone tomahawk in his hand. Would this brave 
have allowed the artist to paint him thus accoutred, if he had not regarded his stone axe as 
a weapon '! An Indian warrior, in his contempt for labor, certainly spurns the idea of being 
portrayed witli a tool in his hand. 

t Many of the perforated iHiplements of Europe are supposed to have been destined for tho 
same purpose. 



DRILLING IX STONE WITHOUT METAL. 



397 




the blade by ligatures. The depressions of the axe above and below the shaft- 
hole (oliservable in the side view) seem to have been destined for the reception 
of the fastening. 

Yet, the manufactures of stone ^vhieh evince the greatest skill of the former 
inhabitants of North America are by no means their pierced axes, but those 
remarkable pi]ies, often made of the hardest stones, that have been found in the 
so-called sacriHcial mounds of the western States, but more especially in Ohio. 
These " mound i)ipes " usually represent bowl and tube in one piece, thus dillering 
from the modern Indian ])ii)e, which consists of a bowl and a long wooden stem, 
and bears a distant resemblance to the chihouc of the Tiu-ks. A great number 
of pipes of the above-mentioned antique shape were disentombed by JNlessrs. 
Squier and Davis during their survey of the ancient earth-works in the Missis- 
sippi valley, and are described and figured in their work already quoted by me, 
which forms the first volume of '' Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge."* 
The accompanying cut (Fig. 8) presents the outline of the mound-pipe in its 

simple or primitive form. 
J^iq. S. The drawing is about half 

the size of the original, 

which was exhumed with 

many similar articles from 

@ \ a mound near Chillicothe, 

Ohio, and belonged form- 
erly to the collection of Dr. 
Davis. It will be seen that 
the bowl rises from the mid- 
dle of a flat and somewhat 
curved base, one side of 
which communicates by 
beans of a naiTow perforation, one-sixth of an inch (about four millimeters) in 
liameter, with the hollow of the bowl, and represents the tube, or rather the 
mouth-})iece of the pipe, while the other unperforated end forms the handle by which 
the smoker held the implement and approached it to his mouth. Bowl and base arc 
ornamented with small cu})-shaped holes. This pipe consists of hard porphyry, and 
is wrought from a single piece, like all others of similar character. I have 
already stated that it may be considered as the simple or typical form of this 
class of inq)lements. In the more elaborate specimens the bowl is formed in 
some instances in imitation of the human head, but generally of the body of an 
animal ; and in tlie latter cases the peculiar characteristics of the species which 
have served as models, comprising mammals, birds, and amphibia, are frequently 
expressed with surprising lidelity; a modern artist, indeed, notwithstanding his 
far superior instruments, would find no little difficulty in reproducing the more 
finished of these objects, especially when carving them from porphyry, which 
was the kind of stone chiefly cm})loyed by the manufacturers. It must be borne 
in mind that the real use of rnetal was unknown to the ancient populations of 
North America. Inq)lemeuts and ornanrents of copj)er, it is true, have been'dis- 
covered, to a limited extent, in the mounds of the western States, and els(!where, 
but the copper thus employed has not been obtained V)V the reduction from its 
ores; on the contrary, it is evident that the aborigines fashioned tlK)se articles 
from pieces of native copper, which \\\vy brought into the required shape by the 
sinq)le j>rocess of luunmering. They ol)tained the copper from the southern shore 
of Lake Superior, where extensive traces of their ruile mining operations are still 

* The orif^iuals are now in the lilackrnore Mii&eum, at Salisbury, England, an institution 
of recent oii<^in, to which Dr. Davis sold his excellent coileciiou of Indiuti relics, mostly 
obtained during the survey to wliich I havi' alluded. Ht-loro the sale took place, I had con- 
stantly occasion tosee the collection, and thus became familiar with the character of the speci- 
mtus. 



;98 



DRILLING IN STONE WITHOUT METAL. 



to be seen.* This liammered native copper is so soft that it can easily be cut 
with a knife, and therefore cannot have fnrnished the implements for working 
those hard mineral substances, which, indeed, successfully resist well-tempered 
steel. As a consequence, it must be presumed that the manufacturers of the pipes 
performed their work in the most tedious and painful manner, by rubbing the 
stone and grinding it with sharp sand and water, althougli this method leaves 
many details in the execution of their productions unexplained. In viewing, for 
example, their figures of birds, it is difficult to comprehend how thev succeeded 
in representing the feathers, which are indicated by steady and boldly cut lines, 
straight and curved, in close imitation of nature, t The perforations and hollows 
of the mound-pipes are drilled with perfect accuracy, showing at once that the 
implement whicli produced them was not merely turned between the hands, but 
moved by an apparatus which coincided, in all probability, with the bow-drill 
still used by watchmakers and other artisans. The latter, it is well known, con- 
sists of a straight drill, wliich passes through the centre of a disk grooved at the 
periphery and revolves around two fixed points, one of them l^eyig formed by 
the bore. j\Iotion.is imparted by means of a bow, the string of which encircles 
the disk. It certainly would appear hasty to attribute to the aborigines of North 
America a knowledge of this implement, if it were not for the circumstance that 
there occur among the relics of the former population rings of stone and bone 
which are almost identical with the disks just mentioned, and most probably 
have served the same purpose. In fact, it is almost impossible to assign them 
any other destination. These rings are of various sizes, but similar in shape, 
being deeply grooved upon the outer edge, and pierced by eight equidistant 
small holes radiating from the centre. | Fig. 9 is a full-sized drawing of one 
which was discovered in a mound on 
the north fork of Paint creek, about 
six miles distant from Chillicothe, 
Ohio. The sketch, however, repre- 
sents the object as perfect, whereas 
the original, foi'merly belonging to 
Dr. Davis, constitutes only one-hrlf 
of the ring, which consists of a dark 
stone of medium hardness. The 
character of the rings encourages me 
to attempt the restoration of the an- 



I'iCf.O. 




* Only the inhabitants of Mexico, and some countries in the southern portion of the Ameri- 
can continent, understood the manufacture of bronze. It will hardly be necessary to add 
that iron was altogether unknown to the natives of America until Europeans taught them 
its use. 

tThe amount of labor bestowed upon the manufacture of these specimens must have been 
enormous, considering the time it is said to have required for fashioning articles of a much 
simpler character. According to Lafitau a North American Indian sometimes spent his lite- 
time in making a stone tomahawk, yet without entirely finishing it. Lafitau, Maurs des 
Sauvages Ameriquains, Paris, I7"24, vol. 2, p. 110. 

" Mr. Wallace has found that plain cylinders of imperfect rock crystal, four to eight inches 
long, and one inch in diameter, are made and perforated by very low ti'ibes on the Rio Negro. 
They are not, as Humboldt seems to have supposed, the result of high mechanical skill, but 
merely of the most simple and savage processes, carried on with that utter disregard ot time 
that lets the Indian spend a month in making an arrow. They are merely ground down into 
shape by rub!)ing, and the perforating: of the cylinders, crosswise, or even lengthwise, is said 
to be done thus : A pointed flexible leaf-shoot of wild plantain is twirled with the hands against 
the hard stone, till, with the aid of fine sand and water, it bores into and through it, and this 
is said to take years to do. Such cylinders as the chiefs wear are said sometimes to take two 
men's lives to perforate. The stone is brought from a great distance up the river, and is very 
highly valued."— Tj/Zor, Researdies, S\'c., p 187. 

t Ancient Monuments of the Mississippi Valley, p. 224. 



DRILLING IN STONE WITHOUT METAL. 



399 




ligU. 



cieut Indian bow-drill, wliiclinmy have presented the shape indicated hy Fig. 10. 

The rino% it seems, encircled a massive 
drill-hohler, to which it was fastened hy 
pegs driven throngh the holes on its 
periphery. Their jjvu'pose is thus fully 
explained. 

]\Iay not an api)aratus of similar con- 
struclion also have been known in 
Europe diu-ing the bronze nge, and even 
at an earlier ])eriod ? In using the pump- 
drill, descril>ed and figured l)y me, con- 
stant oscillations of the shaft, tending 
to enlarge the bore, cannot be avoided; 
but they are altogether obviated w'hen, 
as in Fig. 10, the upper end of the shaft or drill-holder revolves around a fixed 
point. And further, may not in Europe as well as in America the latter more 
perfect apparatus have superseded, in the course of time, the simpler contrivance 
with which I have experimented ? This view will not ajopear strange, considering 
that man in all parts of the globe progressed slowl}-, and that every new develop- 
ment of ingenuity was based upon the results i)f former experience. I 

The greater number of drilled Indian im]»lements which I had occasion to 
examine bore the unmistakable marks of having been perforated with hollow 
drills ; yet I have also seen Indian performances in drilling indicating tlie appli- 
cation of solid implements. As an illustration I annex (Fig. 11, full size) the 
drawing of a pipe consisting of almost transparent rock 
crystal, which was taken from a mound near Bain- 
bridge, Ross county, Ohio, and is now the property of 
Dr. Djivis. Its shape, it will be observed, is iliat of a 
barrel somewhat narrowing at the bottom ; it is regu- 
larly formed and highly polished. I left the drawing 
purposely without shading in order to indicate the two 
hollows, of which the upper one served as the recepta- 
cle for the smoking material, while, that which meets 
it from the side was destined for the insertion of a stem. 
The terminations of the hollows are rounded, and con- 
sequently have been drilled with a solid implement. 

It is very likely that the hollotc drills of the abori- 
gines of North America were i)ieces of that hard and 
tough cane (Anindinaria macrospcrma, Michaux,^ 
which grows abundantly in the southern part of the 
United States, mostly along the banks of large rivers, 
and forms at present an article of trade, being used for })ipe-stems and ii'shing- 
rods. This cane varies considerably in thickness; sometimes as thin as a straw, 
it assumes, when fully grown, the diametral proportions of a strong rille-barrel, 
and even of larger cylindrical objects, in whicli cases it reaches the enormous 
height of 25 or 30 feet. A })iece of this cane, from whioli the knotty joints have 
been cut, forms a regular hollow cylinder sufficiently strong to serve as a drill. 
I learned from Dr. Davis that many years ago a stone pi})e with an unfinished 
hollow, partly filled with vegetable matter, was sent from i\[ississipi)i to the late 
Dr. Sanmel G. Morton, of Fhiladelphia. "When subjected to a microscopical 
examination the vegetable substance exhibited the librous structure of cane, and 
thus appeared to be the remnant of a drill broken olF in the bore. It is, how- 
ever, my intention to try the applicability of this cane by drilling experiments. 
In conclusion, I will observe that the more finished stone articles of the former 
inhalntants of North America, and especially the pipes from the mounds, are 



V 



400 



DRILLING IN STONE WITHOUT METAL. 



perhaps the best specimens of art left by any people to whom the use of metal 
was unknown, and that in examining the archfeolog-ical collections of Europe, 
I have seen no objects produced under similar circumstances which display an 
equal degree of skill in the art of fashioning stone. 




Ancient Stone Axes from North Germany, 



A liEPOSIT OF AGRICULTURAL FLINT IMPLEMENTS IN SOUTHERN ILLINOIS. 



DY CIIAKLE9 UAU. 



In an article puLlisliod in the Smithsonian report for 18631 gave, for tlio first 
time, an account and drawings of certain North American flint im])lements of 
largo size and superior workmanship, which weix' evi- 
dently used h\ the ahorio-ines for cultivatinsf the soil 
and other digging purposes, and hence, according to 
their shape, classified In- me as shovels and hoes. 'I'he 
annexed figures represent hoth kinds of implements. 
I described the shovels (Fig. 1) as oval plates of flint, 
flat on one side and slightly convex on the other, the 
outline heing chipped into a sharp vdixc The sj)eci- 
men here figured mcasuies above a foot in length, a 
little more than five inches in its greatest breadth, and 
is about three-(juai1;er.s of an inch thick in the middle. 
Others are na^ro^ver and not quite as heavy. The 
shape of the hoes is illustrated by Fig. 2. This speci- 
men is seven and a half 
inches long, nearly six 
inches wide, and about 
half an inch tliick in 
the middle. The roun- 
ded part forms a sharp 
edge. Tlie material 
of which these imple- 
ments are maile is a 
peculiar kind of l)hush, 
gray or brownish flint, 
of slightly conchoid 
fracture, and capable 
of sjditting into largo flat fragments, I never 
succeeded in discovering this stone in sifu. Tlu; 
agricultural implements of my collection were all 
found in St. Clair county in southern Illinois, 
with the exception of one shovel, which was dug up in ISGl in St. Louis, duiing 
the construction of earthworks for the protection of the city. Both shovels and 
hoes were, doubtless, attached to handles, those of the latter ])robubly furmiug 
a right, or even an acute angle with tlie stone blade, which is always pn)vided 
with two notches in the ui)per jiart to facilitate tlie fastening.* 

* I quoted a passage from Du Pralz, which is, perhaps, referable to the lioes. According 
to this author, the natives of Louisiana had invented a hoc, (pioche) with the aid of which 
they prepared the soil for the culture of maize. "These hoes," he says, " are shaped like a 
capital L ; they cut with the edge of the lower part, which is entirely flat.'' — liistuire de lu 
Louisiani., I'aris, 175d. Vol. 11, p. 17(1. 

Plate XXI, in vol. II of Dc Unj, (Krankfort, l.'iO I,) represents Florida Indians of both 
se«es engdged in field labor, tlie men using the hoc and the women sowing. The Latin text 
(by Lc Moyue) accompanying the engraving states that the hoes are made of fish-bone, 
{ligonrs e pisciittn ossibus) and j)rovided with wooden handles. The women sow bcau.s anj 
uuiizo — ' fcmince fabas Sf milium sice Mayzum scrunt," 

2G S 





402 DEPOSIT OF AGRICULTURAL FLINT IMPLEMENTS. 

Some of the shovels, like the specimen of which a drawing is given, measure 
a foot and more in length, and consequently are among the largest flint tools 
thus far discovered in any part of the world. Neither the rude hatchet-like and 
lanceolate implements found in the '' drift " of France and England, associated 
with the osseous remains of the mammoth, the rhinoceros, and other animals of a 
bygone fauna, equal them in size ; nor have, to my knowledge, the caves of the 
reindeer period in southern France and Belgium, once the resorts of savage hunt- 
ing tribes, yielded any chipped flint articles of the same dimensions. Indeed, 
they are rivaled, as I think, only by the large flint celts of Scandinavia and 
northern Germany, which belong to a more advanced stage of the European 
stone age. 

That the North American flint tools described by me were really used for dig- 
ging can hardly be doubted. " If the shape of these implements," I stated in 
my account, " did not indicate their original use, the peculiar traces of wear 
which they exhibit would furnish almost conclusive evidence of the manner in 
which they have been employed ; for that part with which the digging was done 
appears, notwithstanding the hardness of the material, perfectly smooth, as if 
glazed, and slightly striated in the direction in which the implement penetrated 
the ground." I further mentioned that this peculiar feature is common to all 
specimens of my collection as well as to the few which I have seen in the hands 
of others ; and that they seem to be rather scarce, and merely confined to certain 
States bordering on the Mississippi river. 

I was, therefore, much interested in the recent discovery of a large deposit of 
such implements at East St. Louis, (formerly Illinoistown,) in St. Clair county, 
Illinois, a place situated directly opposite the city of St, Louis, in the so-called 
"American Bottom," which forms a fertile plain extending for a considerable 
distance along the Mississippi shore in Illinois. This region, I must state, is 
very rich in Indian remains of various descriptions,* but particularly interesting 
on account of numerous artificial mounds, among wdiich the celebrated truncated 
pyramid called Cahokia Mound, or Monk's Mound, is l)y far the most conspicuous, 
reminding the beholder of those gigantic structures in the valley of the Nile, 
W'hich the rulers of Egypt have left to posterity as tokens of their power and their 
pride. 

The particulars of the discovery to which I alluded were communicated to mo by 
Dr. John J. 11. Patrick, of Belleville, Illinois, a gentleman to whom I amgreatly 
indebted for long-continued co-operation in my pursuits relative to the subject of 
American antiquities. As soon as Dr, Patrick heard of the discovery he hastened 
to East St. Louis, for the purpose of ascertaining on the spot all details concern- 
ing the occurrence of those flint tools ; and in order to obtain still more minute 
information, he afterwards repeatedly revisited the place of discoveiy which is about 
14 miles distant from Belleville, and can be reached after a short ride, the latter 
place being connected by railroad with East St. Louis, The removal of ground 
in extending a street disclosed the existence of the deposit, and Dr. Patrick 
derived all facts concerning its character from Mr. Sullivan, the contractor of the 
street work, wdio was present when the tools were exhumed, and therefore can 
be considered as a reliable authority. The results of my informant's inquiries, 
communicated in various letters addressed to me, arc contained in the following 
account : 

In the early part of December 1868, some laborers, while engaged in grading 
an extension of Sixth street in East St. Louis, came upon a deposit of Indian 
relics, consisting of flint tools, all of the hoe and shovel type, and of small fossil 
marine shells, partly pierced, and in quantity about equal to the contents of a 
bushel. Close by were found several boulders of flint and greenstone, weighing 

* Some years ago I discovered near East St. Louis the traces of an Indian pottery, de- 
scribed in the Smithsonian report for 1866, 



DEPOSIT OF AGRICULTURAL FLINT IMPLEMENTS. 



403 



from 15 to 30 pounds cacli, and many IVagmcuts of flint. The soil in tlic ininie- 
diate neighborhood is composed of black loam, overlying a stratum of a sandy 
character, and the deposit ^vllicll occniTcd in the latter, was covered with from 18 
to 2i inches of the black earth, l)earing a luxuriant turf on its surface. Accord- 
ing to the contractor's statement, tlieiiint tools, the shells, and the boulders were 
dq)osited in three separate holes dug out in the sand, but not more than a f(Jot 
apart from each other, and jdaced like the corners of a triangle. To use his lan- 
guage, the implements formed a ''nest" by themselves, and so did the shells, 
and'likcwise the boulders. The flint tools, however, instead of being packed 
close together, like the shells and the boulders, were arranged witli some regu- 
laritv, overlappinc: each other or standing edgewise, and covering a circular space. 
The' whole deposit did not extend more than seven or eight feet on either side. 
The contractor neijlected to count the implements, but he thinks there were from 
70 to 75 in all; ^some 50 hoes and about 20 shovels. No other stone articles, 
such as an-ow and spear-heads, tomahawks, &c., had been deposited with the 

agricultural implements. The latter 

were soon taken away by persons from 
the place, attracted l)y the novelty oi 
the occurrence, and it is to be regret- 
ted that many, if not most of tliem, 
have fallen into the hands of individu- 
als who are unable to ap]>reciato their 
value. But this is usually the case 
when discoveries of similar character 
are made. L>r. I'atrick examined 
upwards of 20 of the flint implements, 
and found that none of them had been 
used, as they had not received the 
slic-htest polish on the cutting edge. 
The place of discovery lies about a 
mile and a half, or still further, fromthe 
]\Iississippi, on elevated ground, and 
above orilinary high-water mark ; but 
formerly, before tlie bed of the ri\er 
was nan-owed by the dike connect- 
ing the Illinois shore with Bloody 
Island, the distance cannot have l)een 
more than half a mile. The spot is 
situated nearly midway between two 
mounds, half a mile apart from each 
other. One of them was formerly 
used as a graveyard by the French of 
the neighborhood, and the other serves 
as the substructure for a dwelling-hnuse. The accompanyingplan (furnished by 
my corresj ((indent) gives a view of the locality. 

'Several of the agricultural implements found at East St. Louis are now in my 
possession. Their material is a yellowish-brown variety of the flint to which I 
already refeired. In shape they corresjiond with the tools of the same class 
previously descril)ed by me; most of the shovels, however, instead of having the 
end opposite the cutting jiart worked into a rounded edge, (like Fig. 1,) tenni- 
natc in a more or less acute angle. The edges of all are chipp(,'d with the 
utmost regularity, and exhil)it not the slightest wear, which jiroves that the 
implements were in a perfectly new condition when buried in the ground. 

The fossil shells of marine'origin are all small univalves, ami belong almost 
entirely to the geniis mclrinqms. Of nearly oOO specimens sent to me by Dr. 
Patrick, 19 only represent other genera, namely, cokimbeUa, marcjlncUa. conus, 





404 DEPOSIT OF AGRICULTURAL FLINT IMPLEMENTS. 

and huUa. All have a decayed and chalky appearance. They were probably 
obtained in the neighborhood, and obviously destined for ornamental 
purposes. This may be inlen-ed from the fact that a number of the 
■))icIa»q)HS shells are pierced -with one hole in the lower part, (Fig. 3, 
natural size,"! Avhich was sufficient for stringing them, as the connecting 
thread could easily be passed through the natural aperture of the shell. 
On close examination I found that these shells had been reduced, l)y 
grinding, to greater thinness at the place of perforation, in order to 
facilitate the process of piercing. 

The boulders, which forared a part of the deposit, were probably designated 
for the manufacture of implements. A piece of one of the boulders was sent to 
ine for examination. It is a compact diorite, the material of which many ground 
articles of the North American Indians, such as tomahawks, chisels, pestles, &c., 
are made. 

It would be useless to speculate on the antiquity of the ol)jects thus acciden- 
tally discovered, for there are no indications for determining, even approximately, 
the period when they were buried. It is far easier to account for the motives 
which induced the owners of the tools and the other objects to dispose of them 
in the manner described. Their object was, in all probability, to hide them. 
Perhaps they left the place with a view to return and to take possession again 
of their concealed property, but were prevented from can-ying out their intention. 
Or, they may have buried them in time of- W'ar, when they were killed, driven 
away, or led into captivity; and their " hidden treasure" lay undisturbed in the 
ground, perhaps for centinies, until the spade of the li'ish laborer brought it to 
light again. There is no room whatever for the supposition that this deposit 
constituted one of those religious offerings by which the ancient inhabitants of 
the Mississippi valley believed they could gratify or propitiate the powers that 
ruled their destinies. 

Similar deposits of flint articles have repeatedl}' been discovered in the United 
States,* and Messrs. Squier and Davis mention several instances of this kind in 
their work entitled " Ancient Monuments of the Mississippi Valley." The most 
extensive accumulation described by them occurred in one of the so-called sacri- 
ficial niomids of '' Clark's Work," on North Fork of Paint creek, lloss county, 
Ohio. This mound contained, instead of the altar usually found in this class of 
earth-structures, an enoimous number of Hint disks standing on their edges, and 
arranged in two layers one above the other, at the bottom of the mound. The 
whole extent of these layers has not been ascertained ; but an excavation six 
feet long and four broad disclosed upwards of six hundred of those disks, rudely 
blocked out of a superior kind of grayish striped flint. I had occasion to exam- 
ine the specimens formerly in the,collection of Dr. Davis, and have now a num- 
ber of them in my ow'n collection, which were sent to me from Ohio. They are 
either roundish, oval, or heart-shaped, and of various sizes, but on an average 
six inches long, four inches wide, and from three-quarters of an inch to an inch 
in thickness. They weigh not far from two pounds each. These flint disks are 
believed to have been buried as a religious ofl'ering, and the peculiar structure 
of the mound which inclosed themt rather favors this view. The disks, how- 
ever, represent no linished implements, but merely flat jiieccs, rudely chipped 
around their edges, and ch'stined, in all probability, to be wrought into more 
symmetrical forms. Thus it would rather seem that the contents of this mound 
constituted a kind of depot or magazine, from which supidies of flint could be 
drawn whenever there was a want of that material. Many of the disks imder 
notice bear a striking resemblance to the flint " hatchets" discovered by Boucher 
de Perthes and Dr. lligollot in the diluvial gravels of the valley of the Somme, 

* Also in Europe. Dep'isits of flint arrow-beads, for instance, were found in Scotland. — 
Logan, ''The Scottish Gail." Loud., J 831., Vol. I, p. :539. 
t Ancient Monuments, &c , p. 158 ; drawings of the disks on p. 214. 



DEPOSIT OF AGRICULTURAL FLINT IMPLEMENTS. 



405 



in nortliorn France* The similarity in form, however, is the only analog^' that 
can he claimed for the nule flint articles of both continents, considenn^' tliat 
they occun-ed midcr totally different circumstances. The drift implements of 
Europe represent the most primitive attempts of man in the art of working stone, 
while the Ohio disks arc the nnlinished specimens of n race that constructed 
earthworks of amazing size, and was already highly skilled in the manufacture 
of weapons and tools of flint. 

Yet I little douht hut that imjdements analogous in shape as well as in asso- 
ciations to those of the drift of Europe, will be found also in America; for indi- 
cations of the In'gh anticpiity of man on the latter continent are not wanting-, aud 
the similarity in the early condition of the human race in various parts of the 
globe becomes more and more manifest by the results of archiBological investi- 
gation. 

Another occuiTcnce of flint disks is recorded in a notice by Dr. H07, published 
in Lapham's " Antiquities of Wis- 
consin," one of the Smithsonian vol- 
umes : *"■ Some workmen, in digging 
a ditch through a peat swamp near 
Racine, found a deposit of disks of 
hornstone, about 30 in number. They 
were immediately on tlie clay, at the 
bottom of the peat, about two and 
a half feet below the surface. Some 
of the disks were (piito regular; they 
vary fi'om half a pound to a pound 
in weight." A few of these are pre- 
Bervedin the collection of the Smith- 
sonian Institution. 

About ISGO, while I lived in St. 
Louis, a quantity of rudely-shaped 
flint articles of similar character were 
discovered close together on the bank 
of the Mississippi, between St. Louis 
and Carondelet. It is probaldcthat 
the falling down of a part of tlie bank 
lia<l exposed them to siglit. I could 
not ascertain their number, but saw 
about eiglit of them, of whicii 1 ob- 
tained three. They are nearly all 
of the same size, oval in shajjc, and 
consist of whitish flint. Eig. 4 
represent^s one of my specimens in 
natm-al size. The original is seven- 
eighths of an incli tliick in tlie mid- 
dle i)art. It is evident that they arc 
not implements in a state of comph;- 
lion, but rouglily-edged fragments, 
whicli- were destined to be made into 
aiTow and spear-heads at some future time. Tlieir present convenient shape was 
doubtless given them f(n- the sake of easier transportation and for saving space. It 
is believed that flint can \h\ chipped more readily after having been exposed 
for some time to thehumi<l influence of the earth, and this may i)artly accotmt 
for the practice of the aborigines of bin-ying tlieir supplies of flint in suitable places. 

* Implciiieuts very similar in shape to thi^ Ohio disks wore also fmiud ia the cuves of 
Dordognc, especially that of Lo Motistier Th'^y are described tmd figured in the splendid 
work by Lartet aud Christy, entitled " Reliquia; Aquitanicae." 




406 DEPOSIT OF AGRICULTURAL FLINT IMPLEMENTS. 

lleturning to my former suLject, I will observe tliat tlie occurrence of Indian 
flint tools wliicli served for agricultural purposes is not more surprising than 
that ofother stone implements indicating less peaceable pursuits; for it is known 
that many of the aboriginal tribes of North America raised maize and other nutri- 
tious plants before this continent was settled by Europeans.* The production 
of maize, indeed, must have been considerable. Mr. Gallatin has taken some pains 
to ascertain the area, east of the Rocky Mountains, and north of Mexico, over* 
which cultivation extended. It was bounded on the east by the Atlantic; 
on the simth l)y the Gulf of Mexico ; on the west by the Mississippi, or, 
more properly, by the prairies. Towards the north the limits varied accord- 
ing to the climate ; but near the Atlantic the northern boundar}^ of agriculture 
lav in the region of the rivers Kennebec and Penobscot. North of the Great 
Lakes agriculture was only found among the Hurons and some kindred tribes. 
The Ojibways, on the south of Lake Superior, and their neighbors, the Meno- 
monies, it appears, depended for vegetable food principally on the wild rice or 
wild oats, called /b?/c avoine by the French. t The Iruqucjis tribes raised large 
quantities of Indian corn. In the year 1687, a corps under the command of the 
IVIarquis de Nonville made an invasion into the country of the Senecas, during 
which all their supplies of maize Avere either burned or otherwise spoiled, and 
the quantity thus destroyed is said to have amounted to 400,000 minots, or 
1,200,000 bushels.f Though this estimate may be somewdiat exaggerated, it 
nevertheless shows that these tribes paid much attention to the cultivation of 
maize. 

The nations who inhabited the large territories fonnerly called Florida and 
Louisiana, probably obtained their food mostl}' from the vegetable kingdom. 
They cultivated chiefly maize, beans, peas, pumpkins, melons, and sweet pota- 
toes. Maize, however, was their principal produce. In the accounts of De 
Soto's expedition, not only frequent allusion is made to the extensive maize fields 
of the natives, but it may also be gathered from these relations that the army of 
De Soto would have starved without the supplies of Indian corn obtained from 
the inhabitants. These people laid up stores of that useful cereal, and among 
other facts it is mentioned that one of De Soto's officers found in one house 
alone, five hundred measures of maize ground to meal, besides a large quantity 
in grain. § But those southern tribes met by De Soto and his followers in tho 
sixteenth century were the most advanced among the North American aborig- 
ines. No longer in the pure hunter state, but attached to the soil, they lived iw 
large villages, consisting of dwellings more commodious than those of the ruder 
tribes, and paid generally more attention to the comforts of life than the latter. 
Adair, who spent during the last century many years as a trader in the dis- 
trict under notice, mentions that the French of West Florida and the English 
colonists obtained from the Indians ditferent sorts of beans and peas, with which 
they were before entirely unacquainted. They raised also a small kind of tobacco, 
diflering from that in use among the French and English settlers. The women, 
be says, planted pumpkins and difierent species of melons in separate fields, at 
a considerable distance from the towns. || It is even probable that the former 
inhabitants cultivated fruit trees. Bartram, at least, found in Georgia and Ala- 
bama, on the sites of ancient Indian settlements, various kinds of trees, such as 

* Some of the facts mentioned iu the following remarks were alrea''y given in my previous 
article, published in the Smithsonian report fur lh'(53; I repeat them here, for tlie sake of 
greater completeness, in connection with some additional details bearing upon the same 
subject. For descriptions of the remarkable "garden-beds " of Michigan, Wisconsin, and 
Indiana, which indicate an ancient cultivation, I must refer to Schoolcraft, Lapham, and 
others. 

t Gallatin, Archseologia Americana, Vol. II, p. 149. 

t Documentary History of New York, Vol. I, p. 23S. 

§ Garcilasso de la Vega, Couquete de la Floride. Leyden, 1731, Vol. I, p. 250. 

II Adair, History of the American Indiaus. London, 1775, p. 408. 



DEPOSIT OF AGRICULTURAL FLINT IMPLEMENTS. 407 

the persimmon, honey-li>cust, Chickasaw phim, mulhoiTV, hlack ■\valniit, ami 
sliell-barkeil hickory, wliich, lie thinks, " were cuUivated by the ancients on 
ac«()nnt of tlicir fruit, as bcin<^ wholesome ami nourishing food."* 

The Floridians, it is stated, employed at De Soto's time prisoners of war for 
workinjj^ the fields, and ia order to prevent their eseajjo they partly maimed them 
by cutting the tendons of the leg above the heel or the instep. t It appears, 
however, that among most semi-agricultural tribes of North America iield labor 
■was imposed upon the women ; while the men, when not engaged in hunting or 
■war expeditions, abandoned themselves to that listless repose in wliich barba- 
rians generally love to indulge. 

*Bartram's Travels. Dublin, J793, p. 38. 

\Uarcilasso de la I'ega, Couquete de la Floride, Vol. I, p. 2SG, and Vol. I, p. 339. 



NOTICE OF THE BLACKMORE MUSEUM, SALISBURY, ENGLAND. 

OPENED SEPTEMBEK THE 5tH, 1867. 



Time, which antiquales antiquities, and hath an art to make dust of all things, hath yet spared 
these minor monuments.^' — Sir Thomas BrowNK. 



The Blackmore Musenm was founded at Salisbury, by Mr. William Black- 
more, of Liverpool and London, in 1864. The public are admitted free upon 
davs appointed by the committee of the Salisbury and South Wilts Museum, 
who have been constituted the governing body by Mr. Blackmore, subject, 
however, to the annual consent of the trustees, who are tlie founder, his brother. 
Dr. Blackmore, and his brother-in-law, Mr. E. T. Stevens. 

GENERAL REMARKS. 

The collection mainly consists of specimens belonging to the stono age of 
different countries. 

It has been well remarked that ^' these implements of stone are to bo regarded 
as indicating a grade of civilization, rather than any definite antiquity." One 
object of the founder of the Blackmore Museum accordingly has been, an attempt 
to illustrate the use and application of the rude weapons, implements, and orna- 
ments of antiquity, by exhibiting, side by side with them, similar specimens in 
use among existing races of mankind. 

The general result of this arrangement is, that a striking resemblance can bo 
observed in the modes by which the simple wants of a common nature have been 
supplied among people widely severed from each other in point of time, no less 
than by geograpliical distribution. 

Although this may be the first impression conveyed by a glance at the Black- 
more and similar collections, more careful examination will show that special 
types (and in some instances special objects) occur in particular districts, and 
that frequently typical points of difference exist between groups of objects 
assio-ned to the same period and people, and obtained from spots almost close to 
each other. Tlius in the case of two localities near Salisbury, there is a differ- 
ence in type between the group of flint implemeilts found in the drift -gravel at 
Bemerton and tlie group found in the drift-gravel at Milford Hill. 

Taken as a whole, however, the flint implements of the drift have well-marked 
characteristics; nevertheless, in the Blackmore collection certain specimens from 
an American tumulus agree very closely with the usual drift types. Very drift- 
like implements have also been found in certain bone-caves, yet in each case the 
attention is chiefly arrested by the aberrant character of the specimens. 

There is a class of flint implements known as " scrapers," one variety of 
which, usually large, thick-backed, and with a broad scraping edge, is found in 
the drift ; it occurs again in cave deposits, as for instance in Le Mtmsticr, 
Dordogne, and also with slight modification among ordinary surface specimens, 
although it ceases then to be a typical form. On the other hand, the typo of 
"iicr*per" so abundant on the smiace occm-s, although rarelv. in the drift. 



THE BLACKMORE MUSEUM. 409 

Pcrli.ips, therefore, we are scarcely in a position to state that any sharp lino 
of (leiuarcation absolutely severs the drift implements from thoso of the caves, 
or the implements of the caves from those of the surfixce. In pakeontolou^v the 
rare types of one period become the prevalent forms of another, in this respect 
presenting an analogy to the objects of the stone age. If wo assnme that tho 
drift-folk 'Hhonght out" the form of their weapons and the mode of their manu- 
facture in a manner entirely ditt'ering from what has been done by any other race 
of men, we are driven to the conclusion that there must have been also some- 
thing wholly different in the drift-j)eople themselves, or in the conditions under 
which they existed, for all later evidence tends to show that the workini;-s of 
liumau minds and human hands in the stone age have produced very similar 
results in every quarter of the ijlobe. 

Be this as it may, the collection in the Blackmore Jfuseum will remain what 
it is now, an assemblage of facts, however incorrectly we or other men may 
interpret them, and as such, the collection must ever retain its ethnological value, 
even should our present theories prove to l>e erroneous. The collection resem- 
bles so mn(;h sound material ready -quarried and lit for use, with which men can 
build — any errors in style, construction, or taste, must necessarily rest with tho 
ai'chitect. 

ARRANGEMENT. 

The arrangement of the collection is far from being completed ; as soon as 
possible, labels will be attached to the specimens and a list will be published, to 
be followed hereafter by an illustrated and descriptive catalogue. 

CLASSIFICATION. 

The classification adopted is as follows : 

^ f Fauna of "the Drift'' — Euglantl. 

Flint implements from "the Drift "—France. 

" " " England. 

Fauna of the Dordogne caves — France. 

" caves in the Pyrenees — France. 

" "Genista" caves — Gibraltar. 

Flint implements and objects of hiuiiau workmanship in bone, antler of reindeer, &c. 

— Dordogne caves, France 
" " caves of the Pyrenees, France. 

" " " " " " Genista caves," Gibraltar. 






Surface series, (rubbed stone group.) 
f Flint and stone implements, &c., from England, Ireland, France, Denmark, Italy, 
Arabia, East Indies, South Africa, America, «feo. 
Pfahlbauten series — ywitzerland. 



:e-5 1 

id 



Surface scries, {drilicd slone group.) 
Stone hatchets and other objects from America, Ireland, and Denmark. 

Surface scries, (carved and drilled slone group.) 
^ Pipes and other objects from tho mounds of Ohio — America. 



Bronze series. 
Bronze hatchets, spear heads, and personal ornaments, from England, Ireland, 
France, and America. 



[ro7i scries. 
Iron swords and spear-heads— England, France. 

Illustralire series. 
Modern stone irni)lements, chiefly in tho original handles— New Zealand, Australia 
Islands of tho Pacitic, Esquimaux, &-c. 



410 THE BLAOKMORE MUSEUM. 

Modern bone-<irmed weapons — British Guiana, New Guinea, Islands of the Pacific, 

Esquimaux, &c. 
Modem iron-armed weapons — Africa, &c. 
Personal ornaments, fisliin}i:-tackle, &c., made from seeds, shell, bone, horn, ivory — 

New Zealand, Islands of the Pacific, Esquimaux, «fcc. 
Clubs, spears, paddles, &(i. — New Zealand, Australia, New Guinea, Islands of the 

Pacific, British Guinea, Esquimaux, &c. 

Fauna of the Drift. 

The collection commences with remains of those (chiefly) extinct animals found 
in beds of sand, clay, or gravel, which cap hills, occur in patches on their sides, 
or constitute the sub-stratum of valleys in certain districts. For the purpose of 
this notice it may be sufficient to state that these beds are popularly known as 
''the Drift," and that the materials forming them have been derived from the 
wearing-down by water of the neighboring up-stream district. This wearing- 
down does not appear to have been entirely or even chiefly due to ordinary river 
action, but it was probably effected, in great degree, by torrents arising from the 
thawing of ice and snow, which accumulated under more rigorous conditions as 
to climate than is experienced in the same localities within the historic period. 

In the series from our local drift (brick-earth) at Fisherton, attention is par- 
ticularly called to some unique remains of one species of pouched marmot {Sper- 
mophUus stiperciliosus.) From a careful examination of several skeletons of 
these little rodents, it appears that the animals all perished during their winter's 
sleep — each being in the usual position assumed during hybernation. Possibly 
in this we see the effect of some unusually high flood. There are also exhibited 
remains of two species of lemming, (Lemmus torquatus and L. Norvegicus,) 
likewise unique in beds of this age. In the collection are portions of egg-shells 
from the brick-earth at Fisherton : these are unique. 

AECnJiOLITniC PEIUOD. 

Flint implements from the Drift. 

The interest felt in '' the Drift" aiises chiefly from the fact that in it are 
found implements made by the simple processes of flaking and chipping, which 
afford the first evidence we possess of man's existence upon the earth. The 
series of these implements in the Blackmore Museum is extensive and good, 
particularly so as regards those obtained from the drift of England, at Thetford, 
Icklingham, Bury St. Edmunds, and nearer Salisbury, at Hill Head, (near 
Farehani,) Bournemouth, Fordingbridge, and Lake, as well as those found close 
to this city, at Bemerton, and "jMilford Hill. Mr. Evans, F.ll.S., of Hemel 
Hempsted'; Mr. Flower, F.G-.S., of Croydon; Mr. Wheaton, of Salisbury ; and 
;Mr. Toomer, also of this city, have contributed specimens. Many of the local 
flint implements collected by Mr. James Brown, and the important collectioa 
formed by Mr, Henry Prigg, jr., of Bury St. Edmunds, are also included in 
this series. 

Cave series. 

These objects consist of flint scrapers and implements — of harpoons carved 
from antlers of the reindeer — of bone needles — and of pieces of bone and 
horn upon which animals and other objects have been delineated. The speci- 
mens exhibited from the Dordogne caves (France) were chiefly presented by the 
trustees of the Christy jMuseum, London, and by M. Lartet, of Paris ; many of 
the rarer specimens are represented by casts, the originals being in the museum 
at St. Germain. The specimens from the caves of the Pyrenees were obtained 
during excavations conducted by Dr. Garrigou, of Tarascon, at the expense of 
Mr. Blackmore ; whilst the series from the caves at Gibraltar was presented by 
Colonel Henry Hope Crealock (Vienna) and Captain Bronie, (Gibraltar.) 



THE BLACKMORE MUSEUM. 411 

The resemblance l)et\vcen the objects from tlio French caves and those still 
made and used by the Esquimaux is very striking. Attention is directed to the 
cast of a portion of the tusk (jf a mammoth found in the rock-shelter of La Mad- 
elaine, Dordogne, upon which is traced in outline the animal (niamraoth) itself. 
The specimen from which this east has been taken was discovered in May, 18G I, 
by M. Lartet, M. de Verneuil, and the late Dr. Falconer. 

NEOLITniO PERIOD. 

Surface scries, {rubbed stone groiq).) 

Setting aside peculiarities in typo between the .earlier (archseolithic) flint 
implements already noticed, and the later, (neolithic,) now about to be considered, 
the difference in the mode of manufacture is remarkable. The former, without 
exception, owe their shape wholly to the simple processes of flaking and chipping; 
no instance of artilicial rubbing occurs upon the drift implements; whilst among 
those belonging to the neolithic period a very large percentage, after having 
been chipped into form, have been rubbed and polished with more or less care. 
In the rulbedsione series are included those.arrow-heads, scrapers, drills, wedges, 
hammers, and other objects, formed themselves for the most part by flaking and 
chippingonly,butco«^cj»jjorar// with the rubbed hatchets. In this section examples 
are shown from the neighborliood of Salisbury, from Weymouth, Icklingham, 
Yorkshire, and elsewhere in England, and from various parts of Ireland. Some 
nice specimens from Tan Hill, near Devizes, have been presented by Mr. Coombs, 
of Stapleford. Many of the Yorkshire specimens were presented by Mr. Monk- 
man, of Malton. Mr. Evans, F.R.S., of Hemel Ilempsted, has contributed a 
series from the shell-mounds (Kjokkenmuddings) of Denmark, and Mr. Flower, 
r.G.S., of Croydon, has given some from the shell-mounds of Hcrm, near 
Guernsey. There is also an interesting series of specimens from some (as is sup- 
posed) British })it-dwellings, near Salisl)ury, consisting of stone querns, flint and 
bone scrapers, l)one-piercing tools, bone javelin-heads, clay pellets for slinging, 
clay s})indle-whorls, pottery, and animal remains. For this collection the trus- 
tees are indebted to Mr. Adlam, of Salisbury, without whose valuable assistance 
the series could not have been formed. 

So)ne interesting examples of human-w'orked flint and jasper, from the East 
Indies and South Africa, presented by Sir Charles Lyell, Bart., are exhil)ited, as 
are also some remarkable flint-cores from Scinde, presented by the Bedfordshire 
Architectural and x\rcha?ological Society, through Mr. Wyatt, F.CI.S. In this 
section are some nule flint tools, obtained from tlie neighborhood of Home, l)y the 
late Rev. Prebendary Chermside, in whom the Blackmore ]\Iuseum has recently 
lost a most valuable friend. Flint knives from Arabia, presented by Mr. Franks, 
F.S.A., of the British Museum, and similar objects from various parts of France, 
Belgium, and Denmark, are exhibited. 

rfddbaulcyi scries, {ruhhcd stone group.) 

This portion of the collection is very illustrative; it has been formed through 
the extreme kindness of Admiral the lion, E. A. J. Harris, C.B., her Majesty's 
minister at' Berne, who has obtained the valuable assistance of such eminent 
Swiss archajologists as Dr. Keller, l^rofessor Jiiitimeyer, Dr. Lhlmann, and the 
late M. Troyon. It is now well known that a pre-historic people drove 
wooden piles into the beds of the lakes of Switzerland and other countries, 
upon which a platform was ])]aced, and iqmn this platform huts were elected. 

In these huts these peoj)le dwelt, not for a month or two, but continiu)usly, as 
appears to be proved by the presence of seeds of plants wliich ripen at various 
(seasons of the year. 

These lake-dweUers cultivated wheat and barley, spun and wove flax, made 
nets for fishing, while their tools (at the s])ecial stations represented in this col- 



412 THE BLACKMORE MUSEUM. 

lection) were formed only from the bones and liorns of animals, from stone, and 
from llint, wliich latter material tliey probably obtained from the south of France. 
Attention is called to a flake of flint in its original wooden handle, from the 
lake settlement. at Robenhausen. Unfortunately, but a very small portion of the 
animal remains from the Swiss Pfahlbauten can be exhibited to the public from 
want of space, l)ut the collection is peculiarly rich in this direction, through the 
friendly co-operation of Professor Riitimeyer, and every facility for access to it 
will be afforded to those interested in such a series. 

American series, [rubbed stone group.) 

Tills portion of the collection commences with a series of obsidian knives, 
arrow-heads, and drills, chiefly presented b}^ the trustees of the Christy Museum, 
London. These, with some beads and ornaments of stone and shell, and a few 
stone hatchets, are relics of the ancient JMexicans, (Aztecs.) 

The larger portion of the American series in the Blackmore Museum has 
been already fully illustrated and described by the Smithsonian Institution of 
Washington, United States, and is well known to scientific men as the " Squier 
and Davis" collection; it is now for the first time exhibited in Europe, having 
been purchased of Dr. Davis in 1864, when Mr. Blackmore was in New York. 

From this collection are derived the very fine examples of stone arrow-heads 
and axes exhibited, as well as the specimens of worked bone, horn, and shell. 
Mr. Witt, F.G.S., of London, has contributed to this series. 

Banish series, [ruhhed stone group.) 

This series consists of hatchets, tools, and weapons made from stone and flint, 
displaying great skill in the manufacture. 

Belgian series, [ruhhed stone group.) 

The specimens forming this series have been presented by Mr. Evans, F.R.S., 
of Hemel Hempsted, 

French series, [ruhhed stone group.) 

Some exquisite specimens are exhibited in this series. 

American series, [carved stone group.) 

These objects consist of heavy stone mauls, of pestles, and other food imple- 
ments, among which are two specimens from Chiriqui, particularly worthy of 
attention, as are also some carved stone hatchets, and a carved stone dagger, all 
of Carib workmanship, and lui ancient Egyptian stone ax -head. 

Irish series, [drilled stone group.) 
Spindle whorls, hatchets, &c. 

Danish series, [drilled stone group.) 

Spindle whorls, hatchets, &c. 

Ameriean series, [drilled and carved stone group.) 

This gi'oup contains some of the most interesting specimens in the collection ; 
the greater part are extremely rare and some are unique. The celebrated carved 
stone smoking pipes, which have been figured in the first volume of the Smith- 
sonian publications, (Washington,) are in this group, as are also the stone gorgets, 



THE I3LACKM0RE MUSEUM. 413 

tubes, and diilled hatchets exhumed from tho biuial mounds of Ohio by Dr. 
Davis. 

Illustrative scries. 

This series consists of hatchets, tools, aiTows, spears, and other weapons ; of 
fisliing tackle, personal ornaments, &c., in use by modern savages, and calcu- 
lated to throw light upon the mode of hafting and using the corresponding objects 
of antiquity. 

Some clubs from New Zeahuid and some paddles from thq Society Islands 
have been contributed by IMrs. Montgomery, of Nunton House, through the 
Salisbury and South Wilts Museum. This series has also been enriched by 
donation's from Mr. Hamilton, M.P., and Mr. Marsh, M.P. 

Bronze series. 

The poition of this series now exhibited will probably be still further i-educed, 
in order that the stone series may be extended. Among the bronze ol>jects dis- 
played is a good collection of the so-called " celts" from America, Ireland, France, 
and England, including the neighborhood of Salisbury. The specimens pre- 
sented by the Viscount Folkestone, Mr. Benson, and Mr. Clench, to the Salisbury 
and South Wilts Museum, have been kindly lent }>y the committee of that museum, 
and are exhibited, as are also some interesting bronze daggers and other objects 
obtained by Mr. E. Dyke Poor, from a tmnulus at Abliiigton, W^ilts, and some 
bronze armillse and a bronze tonpie, found in a tumulus at Lake by the late Rev. 
E. Duke, and presented'to the Salisbury and South Wilts Museum by his son, 
the liev. E. Duke, of Lake House. 

Iron series. 

The use of iron for anning weapons will, from want of space, bo merely rep- 
resented in the collection. 

A few local specimens of tho Anglo-Saxon period are exhibited. Some of 
these were presented by tho late Mr. Swayne, of Bishopstone, and liy Mr. F. 
Sidford, of the same place. The Salisbury and South Wilts Museunr kindly 
contribute an Anglo-Saxon knife, presented by Mr. E. F. Mills, of Orchestou 
St. Mary. 

Potferi/. 

Some Romano-British pottery, from tho site of an old kiln near Fordingbridge, 
has been presented by Mr. Evans, F.R.S., of Ilemel Ilempsted, and some lino 
examples of Peruvian pottery have been contributed by Admiral Sir William 
Bowles, K.C.B., of London, through the Salisbury and South Wilts Museum, 



PROGRAMME OF THE HOLLAND SOCIETY OF SCIENCES OF HARLEM, 18C9. 



The Holland Society of Sciences, lield at Harlem, 15 May, 1869, its Inmdred 
and seventeentli annual session. The President-Director, Baron F. W. van 
Styrum, opened the sitting \Aith an address in which he recalled the losses sus- 
tained by the society since its last general meeting ; those, namely, of the 
director Baron G. F. Thoe Schwartzenlierg at Hohenlansberg, of the native 
members G. Simons, H. C. Millies and J. van Lennep, and of the foreign mem- 
bers K. F. P. von ^lartius, at Munich, J. Pliicker, at Bonn, H. von Meyer, at 
Frankibrt-on-the-Maine, and C. S. M. Pouillet, at Paris. Finally, the nomina- 
tion of M. G. Willink de Bennebroek, as a director of the society, was announced. 
Since the last annual meeting the society has published : Archives Necrland- 
aiscs des Sciences exactes et naturelles, parts 3, 4 and 5 of vol. iii, 1 and 2 
of vol. iv. 

In reference to a proposition submitted by MM. J. P. van Wickevoort Crom- 
melin, D. de Haan, J. van der Hoeven, J. P. Delprat, R. van Rees, A, H* 
van der Boon Mesch, D. Lubach, and V. S. M. van der Willigen, and for the 
consideration of w'hich a committee was appointed at the last general nieetingj 
composed of the directors G. F. van Tets and J. P. van Wickevoort Cromme- 
lin, and of the members V. S. M. v<an der Willigen, G. de Vries, C. A. J. A. 
Oudemans, P. Harting and E. H. von Baumhauer, the societ}' adopted the fol- 
lowing as its decision : 

1st. Besides the medals decreed for questions proposed for competition, the 
society ordains two new medals, each of the intrinsic value of 500 florins, one of 
them to bear the name and efligy of " Huyghens," the other those of '' BoER- 
HAAVE." 2d. These medals shall be alternately awarded, GVQxy two years, to 
the savant, whether Netherlander or foreigner, who by his researches shall, in 
the judgment of the society, have most contributed, dining the last twenty years, 
to the progress of some definite branch of the physico-mathematical sciences or 
of the natural sciences. 3d. The Huyghens medal shall be assigned in 1870 to 
physics, in 1874 to chemistry, in 1878 to astronomy, in 1882 to meteorology, in 
1886 to mathematics, (pure and applied.) The ]3oerhaave medal shall be 
assigned in 1872 to mineralogy and geology, in 1876 to botany, in 1880 to 
zoology, in 1884 to physiology, in 1888 to anthropology ; and thereafter in the 
same recurrent succession. 4th. The preliminary judgment on the respective 
titles shall be referred to a committee named l>y the directors; of which commit- 
tee the secretary of the society shall always be a member. 5th. The medal 
shall always be awarded by the general assembly, on the detailed and analytic 
report of the connnittee of judgment. 

The followirig question having been oflfered for competition in 1865 and con- 
tinued in 1867: ''The society requests an exact description, with figures, of the 
skeleton and muscles of the Sciunis vulgaris^ compared with what is known on 
this subject of the Lemurides and the Chiromys, in order that the place to be 
assigned to this last species in the natural classification may be determined with 
more certainty than has been heretofore possible ;" a reply has been received 
through a memoir in the Dutch language, bearing the motto : Beter is het te 
pogen zondcr te slagcn dan stil te zittcn ttit vrees roor nutteloose moeite. (Better is 
it to endeavor without succeeding than to sit still from fear of profitless labor). 



HOLLAND SOCIETY OF SCIENCES OF HARLEM, 1869. 415 

On the advice of tlie referees, the assemLly awarded the gold medal to tho 
autlior of the above memoir; whieli, upon the opening of the sealed note, was 
found to 1)0 the joint ])n)diiction of Dr. C. K. lloffrnann, adjunct physician at 
Meerenberg, and of ^L II. "Weijcnbcrgh, jr., surgeon and accoucheur at Utrecht. 

Of our own countrymen, the members elected at the session in question were 
MM. E. II. Beima, keeper of the museum of natural history at Leyden ; R. P. 
A. Dozy, professor in the faculty of philosophy and letters at Leyden ; J. F. W. 
Conrad, engineer-in-chief of the Waterstaat, at ^liddlebourg. Of foreigners, the 
following were at the same time elected members of the society : MM. L. A. J. 
Quetelet, from Brussels; W. Sartorius von Waltershausen, from Gottingen; A. 
W. llofmann, from Berlin; J. D. Dana, from New Haven. 

The president notified the assembly that the library, put in order and pro- 
vided with a catalogue by the care of the secretary, is now at the disposal of the 
directors and members of the societv. 



The Society oifers for competition the following questions, the answers to which 
must be addressed to it before the 1st of January, 1871 : 

I. Tlie knowledge of the peat-bogs of tho Netherlands, as well the higher as 
the lower, is yet far from being complete. There remain many researches to bo 
made before we can determine with precision what are the plants of which they 
are composed; in particular, what are the ligneous substances found therein, and 
what the succession of the different vegetable species in the series of the l)eds of 
these peats, from the most ancient to those which still continue to be formed. 
The society desires to see this suV)ject elucidated, and suggests consequently a 
thorough microscopic examination of the plants composing the Netherland peats. 

II. The society requests an exact description of all the chemical or physical 
operations in which have been obtained, whether accidentally or by virtue of 
direct experiments, those cheuiical combinations wliich, by their chemical and 
physical characters, accord with the inorganic compounds existing in nature, 
under the form of minerals. The production of new artificial minerals is not 
asked for, but simply the critical appreciation of results already realized, with 
the exact indication of the works and memoirs in which the known artificial 
minerals have been described ; in the classification of these products, conformity 
should be observed with some one of the mineralogical systems most extensively 
accepted. 

III. The society considers it desirable that a description of the fossil flora of 
some of tho coal dejiosits of Borneo should bo given, and a comparison of that 
flora with those of other coal formations. 

IV. The society desires a monograph of the substances called albuminous ; 
this monograph should comprise an historical review of tho numerous researches 
to which these substances liave given rise and a critical ap[)reciation of tlio 
opinions which at present maintain a footing in science with regard to this subject. 

V. The society asks that the co-efficients of dilatation of dilferent kinds of 
glass, especially of those which serve for tho construction of thermometers, 
should b(i exactly determined, according to tlie method of M. Fizeau, between 
— .'iO ai)d -|- 500 degrees of the centigrade thermometer. 

VI. Recent researches seem to confirm the opinion tliat the bodies called 
hydrates of carbon are jiolyatomic alcoliols ; tho society invites new researches 
calcuh'ited to elucidate this inq)ortaiit point. 

VII. The d(!termination of tem])eratures higher than 350 degrees of the cen- 
tigrade thennometer still leaves, in all cases, much to be de.sired ; the soci(;ty 
will confer its gold medal for the construction of some very simple apparatus 
which shall give the temperatures up to at least 500 degrees of tho centigrade 
scale. 



416 HOLLAND SOCIETY OF SCIENCES OF HAELEM, 18G9. 

VIII. Tlio society solicits exact deterniinntions regarding the vaiiation of the 
indices of the refraction of water, for at least L'S points of the spectrum, on an 
extent of 50 degrees of the centigrade thermometer. 

IX. It is known that the aurora borealis gives rise to telluric electrical cur- 
rents which sometimes introduce considerable perturbations in the service of tel- 
egraphic lines. The society regards it as an object of interest that on tele- 
graphic lines of great length determinations of the force of those currents should 
be made, to the effect, among others, of ascertaining to what point they extend 
towards the equator. 



Questions to which an answer must he returned before 1st of January^ 1873. 

I. The society desires a complete critical review of the different phanerogamic 
floras of Europe, as well of those which have been published separately as of 
those which are to be found in the transactions of learned societies and in scien- 
tific journals. This review should be so arranged that the details concerning each 
country or province shall be mentioned in succession one after the other, accord- 
ing to the date of their publication. The work must be accompanied with crit- 
ical observations relative to the greater or less value properly to be attributed 
to each flora, and to the opportunity afforded of deciding on the indications 
observed, or of proceeding to new researches in countries little known. 

II. The societ}' calls for a complete critical review of the difi'crent faunas of 
Europe, as well of those which have been published separately as of those 
which are extant in the collections of learned societies and in scientific journals. 
This review should be drawn up in the same form as regards arrangement and 
with the same conditions as those prescribed in the preceding question with 
reference to the different floras of Europe. 



The following questions were last year submitted to competition by the society 
wkh a view to tlieir being answered before the 1st of January, 1870 : 

I. Since the progressive decline and final suppression of the governmental 
culture of spices in the Molucca islands, it has become highly desirable that 
new lines of culture should be established in that fertile archipelago. The 
society consequently asks : (1.) A description of the present social condition of 
those islands, especially as regards the population and its aptitude for agricul- 
tural industry. (2.) Indications of the varieties of the soil, considered in relation 
to the culture proposed for eventual adoption. (3.) Statistical data on the results 
of the free cultivation of spices, as it is now practiced. (4.) A statement of the 
result of the experiment of cultivating cacao, undertaken by order of Governor- 
general Pahud and with the effective support of the government. (5.) A detailed 
specification of the vegetables, the culture of which would deserve to be tried 
among those whose products are suited for exportation. 

II. It cannot be denied that spectral analysis, as at present conducted, tends 
to fall into excess and that its value is frequently exaggerated. Consequently, 
and in order to arrive at views at once more sound and of a more scientific char- 
acter, it is required to make an equitable separation of the true from the false, 
to trace the limits within which the method may be legitimately employed and 
beyond which it ceases to be applicable, to submit to a sober critical appreci- 
ation the facts which it has brought to light, the discoveries which it promises, 
and those which we have a right to expect from it. 

III. The galvanic cun-ent heats the metallic conductor which it traverses ; by 
this, the resistance of the latter is augmented, aud in this way the current reacts 



HOLLAND SOCIETY OF SCIENCES OF HARLEM, 1869. 417 

on itself. On the otlicr liand, it may be su])posed that the intensity of the cur- 
rent further modifies tlie value of the resistance by virtue of an action which 
does not directly depend on the heating. It is desirable that, in one and teh 
other point of view, the influence exerted by the intensity of the current or the 
deforce of the resistance, should be studied. Among the metals susceptible of 
being employed in this incpiiry, mercury would seem to be one of those which 
offer the most advantages. 

IV. The society solicits a criticism, as well as a repetition and extension of 
the experiments on the electrolysis of the melted haloid salts, (Faraday, Experi- 
mental licsearches, vol. i, art. 538 ct scq. and 978 et seq.,) together with an 
exi)osition of the considerations which are deducible therefrom (m the nature o-f 
electrolysis. 

The law of Faraday on electrolysis is extremely simple; but the question is 
far from being exhausted, and the ensemble of the phenomenon is as yet covered 
with a thick veil. Hence it is especially desirable to determine to what point 
the before-cited experiments are in opposition to that higher view, suppoiied hy 
a great number of facts, agreeably to which no true electrolysis can take place 
unless the action of the current is exerted on double salts or on combinations 
which are equivalent and analogous to them. 

V. According to M. G. Ville, (see Eevuedcs Cours scknfi/iques, 1868, No. 7, 
]). 103,) nitrogen in a free or elementary state is assimilated by certain plants, 
]\arti('ularly by leguminous plants. The society wishes that this opinion should 
be submitted to a critical examination, and that its exactness or its falsity be estab- 
lished theoretically or experimentally, and preferably by both methods. 

VI. In regard to the experiments of M. Graham, the society calls for new 
researches on the solutive power of melted metals for hydrogen, particnlai'ly 
with a view to deciding whether there exist definite combinations of metals with 
hydrogen. 

VII. The society asks for an exact description, accompanied with figures, of 
the changes undergone by the organization of the Batrachians during their meta- 
morphosis. 

VIII. The assertion that metals become transparent at a temperature suffi- 
ciently elevated, requires to be confirmed or invalidated by experiments made 
on several different metals. 

IX. The societ}' wishes to have it experimentally determined whether the 
hnninous power of the Lampijris nocfiluca ct splendklida (Linn.) should be 
attrilmted to the secretion of a particular matter, and if it be so, that the natiu'C 
and composition of that matter be investigated. 

X. There still exists nmch obscurity respecting the cause of the phosplu>rescence 
of the substances which bear the name of artificial phosphorus. The society 
invites a thorough investigation, to the end of deciding the question whether 
that phosphorescence should bo attributed solely to a slow oxidation. 

XI. Wliilst, in meteorological observations, the pressure and temperature of 
the air, tlie direction and force of the wind are observed in a continuous manner, 
by means of registering instruments, we are always reduced, as far as the humid- 
ity of tlie air is concerned, to isolated observations made at certain hours of the 
day. The society desires the construction, whether upon new princi})les or such 
as have been already indicated, (see Puf/genchrff's Anmden, vol. 93, p. 343,) 
of a registering iustrument for the determination of the humidity of the air, and 
solicits a counuunication of the results of observations made with such an iustru- 
ment and continued during at least half a yeai'. 

XII. A memoir on tlu; life of Koopman (Mcrcator) and of Ortels, (Ortdius,) 
and on the services which these two savants have rendered to geography, eth- 
nology, and cartography, is regarded as a desideratum. 

27 S 



418 HOLLAND SOCIETY OF SCIENCES OF HARLEM, 18C9. 

XIII. The society would wish that the biography of the Baron van Imhoff, 
find the history of his administration as governor-general of the Dutch Indies, 
should be written from documents not heretofore made use of. 

XIV. The society invites an analysis of the life and a narrative of the voy- 
ages of Dutchmen who, in the 17th and 18th centuries, distinguished themselves 
as navigators or as authors of geographical discoveries. 

XV. What has been done up to the present time, for the study of the 
languages of the populations subject to the domination of the Netherlands in 
countries beyond the sea, and what are the vacuities which it would be chiefly 
important to supply in this respect ? 

The Society recommend to competitors to omit in their replies all that has not 
an immediate relation to the question ])roposed. It hopes to find in everything 
submitted to it perspicuity united with brevity, and demonstrated propositions 
clearly distinguished from vague considerations and facts imperfectly established. 
It is further to be remembered that no memoir written by the hand of the author 
will be admitted to competition, and that, even were a medal awarded, its delivery 
would not take place if, in the meantime, the hand of the author should be recog- 
nized in the work accepted. 

The notes attached to memoirs which fail to receive the prize shall be destroyed 
without being opened, unless it shall have been discovered that the memoir pre- 
sented is but a copy extracted from printed works ; in that case the name com- 
municated will be divulged. Every member of the society shall have a right to 
take part in the competition, on condition that his memoir, as well as note, shall 
be signed with the letter L. The memoirs, written legibly, in Dutch, French, 
Latin, English, Italian, or German, (but not in German characters,) must be 
accompanied by a sealed note containing the name of the author, and be sent 
free to the secretary of the society, Professor E. H. von Baundiauer, at Harlem. 

The prize offered for a satisfactory reply to each of the questions proposed, 
consists, at the choice of the author, either of a gold medal, bearing the usual 
stamp of the society, the name of the author and the date, or a sum of 150 
florins; a supplementary premium of 150 florins may be added if the memoir be 
deemed worthy of it. The competitor who shall receive the prize will not bo 
allowed to print his memoir, either separately or in another work, without the 
express authorization of the society. 



PPtOGEAMME OF THE IMPERIAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES, BELLES-LETTEKS, 
AND ARTS OF 1501IDEAUX. 



Questions submitted to competition for 1SG9 or following years: 

I. Literature. — " Has a tlicatrical censorship Tjeen promotive of the morality 
of the art ? What legislative measures would be suitable for protecting at onc"e 
the liberty of authors and the respect for good morals ?" Prize, a gold medal of 
400 francs. 

II. History. — First, "A history of the parliament of Bordeaux, from its origin 
to the end of the 16th century, with especial consideration of its influence as a 
political body and as a judicial body." Prize, a medal of gold of 500 francs. 
Second, " Origin of villanage and forced aids in Guienue, and the progress of 
their establishment." Prize, a gold medal of 200 francs. Third, *'It A\ould be 
interesting to have a particular history of several cities of our country, such as 
Saint Macaire, Cadillac, Sanveterre, Rions, Bazas, Lesparre, and some others." 
The Academy will award, in 1S69 and 1870, a prize, which may amount to 500 
francs, for a monograph of this kind in which personal matters and, as far as 
possible, the use of documents not hitherto explored shall be allied with compe- 
tent qualifications of exactness and judgment. Fourtli, " Among the institu- 
tions which have contributed to the honor and prosperity of the province of 
Guienne and the city of Bordeaux, the establishments of public instruction hold 
the first place ; it is impossible to forget the services rendered by the college 
of Guienne, and, more recently, by the central school of the department." The 
Academy will award a gold medal of 300 francs to the best memoir which shall 
retrace the histoiy of one of these establishments, or any analogous one ; this 
thesis is proposed for 1869. 

III. Linguistics. — It is desirable to have a general glossary of the Gascon 
tongue spoken in our department. In order to be complete it nuist comprise not 
only the synonyms and equivalents, but further and more especially the varia- 
tions of words in the different dialects of the country. The compilation of such 
a work, however, can only be possible on the condition of having bcf^n preceded 
by the pifblication of special glossaries, embracing localities of more or less 
extent, but so restricted, nevertheless, that one single author may possess the 
dialect completely and exactly. The Academy solicits studious persons to direct 
their inquiries to this point before the use of the French language, becoming 
more and more general, shall have caused the last vestiges of these old idioms 
to disappear. Hence, the Academy proposes the following subject: " To com- 
pile, for the Gascon language, spoken in the department of the Gir(md(^, a lexicon 
which, to an exact and sufficiently com[)lete nomenclature of the words of a given 
locality, shall add the precise explanation of those words alike in their acc('i)tatiou 
in connnon usage and in the idioms, adages, proverbs, agricultural by-words, 
Christmas carols and old songs in which they have been employed." Prize, a gold 
medal of 300 francs. 

IV. Physical sciences — " A recapitulation of the consequences to which tho 
ideas acquired, within a quarter, of a century, on the equivalence of heat and 
mechanical work have led, whether in physics or in chemistry." Prize, a gold 
medal of 300 francs, which may be raised to 500 francs in case the production 
shall contain new facts, " A recapitulation and discussion of the facts acquired 
by science regarding the production and the consumption of forces in living 
beings." Prize, a gold medal of 500 francs. 



420 IMPERIAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES, ETC., OF BORDEAUX. 

V. Natural sciences. — ''The constniction of aquariums has enabled us to 
study the habits of a great number of animals. The basin of Arcachon having 
already been the scene of interesting investigations, the Academy desires that 
researches of this nature should be continued." To that end it profi'ers a prize 
of 500 francs. 

Fauna of the Gironde. — The department of the Gironde possesses catalogues 
more or less complete of its vertebrate animals, its testaceous molluslis,'coleop- 
tera, lepidoptera, &c. ; but this fauna, far advanced as it is, is wholly -wanting in 
any collective review of the marine animals belonging to the inferior orders. 
Considering that in defect of rocky coasts our department includes at least a vast 
estuary (the basin of Arcachon) highly favorable to the study of a great numbcE 
of these different organisms, the xVcademy would indicate the following as a desid- 
eratum : " The preparation of catalogues of the Crustacea, annelidae, radiata, &c., 
which are still deficient in the fauna of the department of the Gironde ; to be 
accompanied by figures of new or little known species." Prize, a gold medal of 
500 francs. 

VI. Physiology. — The Academy having had the pleasure of crowning a meri- 
torious memoir on a subject which it had proposed under this head, hoj^es to 
obtain a like gratifying result by presenting the following questions at once of 
scientific and practical interest and worthy of exciting the emulation of our savants : 
First. "A study of the anatomical and physiological relations which exist 
between the nervous cellules of the primitive fibers, sensitive and motive. The 
application of these researches to the study of reflex and sympathetic actions." 
Prize, a gold medal of 300 francs. Second, "Physiological and therapeutic 
effects of the ingcsta which excite to labor and vigilance, which supply in part 
the place of aliments, and some of which are recognized as moderators of the 
vital combustion, such as alcohol, coffee, tea, mate, cocoa, &c." The prize will 
be a gold medal of 300 francs. 

VII. Fine arts. — '' State and tendency of religious architecture at the present 
epoch." Prize, a gold medal of 300 francs. "History of painting at Bor- 
deaux." Prize, a medal, the value of which may extend to 500 francs. 

VIII. Poetry. — The competition in poetry is subject to the conditions hereto- 
fore prescribed, and the choice of the subject remains optional with the author. 

IX. Biogra])hical notices. — As in previous years, the Academy invites bio- 
graphical notices of the celebrated or useful men who have belonged either to the 
province of Guienne or to the department. ''Life and works of Brascassat." 
Prize, a gold medal of 300 francs. 

X. Archeology. — '' JMonograph of the church of Saint Michel of Bordeaux, 
with historic documents, plans and designs." Prize, a medal of 500 francs. 
'' For the best memoir on the history of the church of Soulac, corroborated by 
plans, designs, and an indication of the original or printed documents consulted 
by the author." Prize, a gold medal of 300 francs. The Academy desiring 
to encourage archeological researches in the department of the Gironde, awards 
also medals of encouragement to the authors of the most important researches. 

XL Hydrology. — The question of artesian excavations has been theoretically 
treated for some isolated points of the vast basin of Aquitaine in the various 
publications and academic communications of MM. de Collegno, de Lamothe, 
Jacquot, and Eaulin ; it has been also experimentally solved by several success- 
ftd trials made in the department. Many municipal administrations are, at this 
moment, asking for instructions on the chances of success which their localities 
offer for such enterprises. The Academy allying itself with this movement, 
proposes the following : " A discussion of the "question of artesian borings in a 
general manner for Aquitaine, upon the data which geology furnishes with respect 
to the ground-slope of the aquitanic basin, its orographic characters and the levels 
of absorption of water presented b}^ the difl'erent embanking rocks of its bor- 
ders," Prize, a gold medal of 500 francs. 



IMPERIAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES, ETC., OF BORDEAUX. 421 

Conditions of competition. — Tlio articles proposed for competition must fulfil 
the following conditions : Be Avrittcn in French or Latin ; he received at the sec- 
retariat of the Academy, rue Jean-Jac(iues Bel, before the 31st October, 1869 or 
1870, as indicated in the programme ; be free of postage ; neither be signtxl by 
the author nor contain any indication by which he can bo known ; they shall 
bear an epigraph, which shall be repeated in a scaled note annexed to the article 
to which it belongs. This note, besides the epigraj)h, shall contain the name 
and address of the author, with the declarati(m that it has never been printed, 
offered for competition, or communicated to any academic society. An article 
]»roceeding from any author whose name shall be previously disclosed, will, fi'om 
that circumstance alone, be excluded IVoni competition. This condition is rigor- 
ous. The sealed notes will not be o])ened except in the case when an academic 
recompense shall have been ol)tained. From the observation of the above 
formalities are exempt, the productions of aspirants to medals of encourage- 
ment, and to prizes for obtaining which, local researches or the statement of 
experiments performed by the authors themselves shall be essential. Compe- 
tition is open to both foreigners and natives, even to such of the latter as per- 
tain to the Academy b}' the title of corresponding members. 

Extract from the regulations of the Academy. — As soon as the Academy has 
rendered its decision, if there be prizes or honorable mention to be conferred, the 
president proceeds, in general assembly, to the opening of the sealed notes 
annexed to the prize essays. The notes pertaining to others are detached from 
the memoir, sealed by the president, and preserved T)y the archivist. The 
authors of the prize essays are immediately informed of the decision of the Acad- 
emy, and those decisions are made public. The manuscripts and all the docu- 
mentary papers of whatever nature, addressed to the Academy, remain in the 
archives after being marked with the initials and paraph of the president and 
secretary-general, and can in no case be removed. As the Academy, however, 
asserts no right of property over the papers, their authors may cause copies to be 
taken from the archives, after first proving that these productions belong to 
them. Independently of the prizes of which the subjects are named in the 
annual programme, the Academy bestows medals of encouragement on the 
authors who address to it works of real merit, and on persons who send to it doc- 
uments on the ditlerent branches of science, letters and art. It may likewise 
award a prize to the coiTcsponding meml)er who shall have best merited it by 
the utility of his communications and the importance of the labors which he 
shall have submitted to it. 

ROUX, President. ' 
VALAT, Secretary- General. 



A BKIEF ACCOUNT OF THE PROCESSES EMPLOYED IN THE ASSAY OF GOLD 
AND SILVER COINS AT THE MINT OF THE UNITED STATES. 



FROM THE ANNUAL REPORT OF JAMES POLLOCK, DIRECTOR. 



PRINCIPLES OF THE OPERATION. 

Accordiiig to law, the standard gold of the United States is so constituted 
that in 1,000 parts by weight 900 shall be of pure gold, and 100 of an alloy 
composed of copper and silver. 

The process of assay requires that the copper and silver be both entirely 
removed from the gold ; and to effect this, two separate operations are necessary. 

The first is for the removal of the copper ; and this is done by a method called 
cupellation, which is conducted in an assay furnace in a cupel composed of cal- 
cined bones. To the other metals, lead is added ; this metal possesses the prop- 
erties of oxidizing and vitrifying under the action of heat, of promoting at the 
same time the oxidation of the copper and other base metals, and of drawing 
with it into the pores of the cupel the whole of these metals, so as to separate 
entirely this part of the alloy, and to leave behind the gold and silver only. 

The separation of the silver from the gold is effected by a process founded on 
the property possessed by nitric acid of dissolving silver without acting upon 
gold. But that the gold may not protect the silver from this action, sufficient 
silver must first be added to make it at least two-thirds of the mass. The pro- 
cess to be described is based upon the rule of quartatlon, in Avhich the propor- 
tion of silver is three-fom-ths. 

PROCESS OF ASSAY. 

The reserved gold coins are placed in a black-lead crucible, and covered with 
borax to assist the fluxing and to prevent oxidation of the copper alloy. They 
are thus melted down and stirred ; by which a complete mixture is effected, so 
that an assay piece may be taken from any part of the bar cast out. The piece 
taken for this purpose is rolled out for convenience of cutting. It is then taken 
to an assay balance (sensible to the ten-thousandth of a half gram or less,) 
and from it is weighed a half giam,, which is the normal assay weight for gold 
being about 7.7 grains troy. This weight is stamped 1000 ; and all the lesser 
weights, (afterwards brought into requisition,) are decimal divisions of this 
weight, down to one ten-thousandth part. 

Silver is next weighed out for the quartation ; and as the assay-piece, if stand- 
ard, should contain 900 thousandths of gold, there must be three times this 
weight, or 2700 thousandths of silver; and this is accordingly the quantity used. 
It is true that there is already some silver in the alloy, but a little excess over 
the quantity required for the quartation does no injury to the process. 

The lead used for the cupellation is kept prepared in thin sheets, cut into 
square pieces, which should each weigh about ten times as much as the gold 
under assay. 

The lead is now rolled into the form of a hollow cone ; and into this are in- 
troduced the assay gold and the quartation silver, when the lead is closed round 
them and pressed into a ball. 

The furnace having been properly heated, and the cupels placed in it and 



ASSAY OF GOLD AND SILVER COINS. 423 

brought to the same temperature, the leaden ball, with its contents, is put into 
one of the cupels, the furnace cK)se(l, and the oj)eration allowed to proceed until 
all agitation is ceased to bo observed in the melted metal and its surface has 
become bright. 

This is an indication that tlio whole of the base metals have been converted 
into oxides and absorbed by the cuj)el. 

The cupellation being thus finished, the metal is allowed to cool slowly, ai*l 
the disk or huttun which rt forms is detached from the cupel. 

The button is then flattened by a hammer ; is annealed by bringing it to a 
red heat; is laminated by passing it between rollers; is again annealed; and is 
rolled loosely into a spual or coil called a cornet. It is now ready for the pro- 
cess of quartation. 

For this pnq)Ose, it is introduced into a matrass containing about \^ ounces 
of nitric acid at 22° of Baume's hydrometer, and in this acid it is boiled for 1 
minutes, as indicated by a sand-glass. 

The acid is then poured off, and three-fourths of an ounce of stronger acid, at 
32°, is substituted for it, in which the gold is boiled for 10 minutes. 

This second acid is then also poured off, and another equal charge of acid of 
the same strength is introduced, in which the gold is kept for 10 minutes longer. 

It is then presumed that the whole of the silver has been removed, and the 
gold is taken out, washed in pure water, and exposed, in a crucible, to a red 
heat, for the purpose of drying, strengthening, and annealing it. 

Lastly, the cornet of fine gold thus formed is placed in the assay balance, and 
the number of thousandths which it weighs expresses the fineness of the gold 
assayed, in thousandths. 

TEST ASSAY. 

To test the accurac}^ of this process, the following method is emplo^'cd : 
A roll of gold, of absolute purity, which has been kept under the seal of the 
chairman of the assay commissioners, is opened in their presence, and from it is 
taken the weight of 900 parts. To this are added 75 of copper and 25 of silver, 
so as to form, with the gold, a weight of 1000 parts of the exact legal standard. 
This is passed through the same process of assay as the other gold, and at 
the same time. After the assay is finished, it is evident that the pure gold re- 
maining ought to weigh exactly 900. If, however, from any cause, it be found 
to difi'er from this weight, and therefore to require a correction, it is assumed 
that the same correction must be made in the other assays, and this is done ac- 
cordingly. 



ASSAY OF SILVER COINS. 



PRINCIPLES OF TUB OPERATION. 



The standard silver of the United States is so constituted that of 1000 partj 
by weight 900 shall be of pure silver, and 100 of copper. 

The process of assay requires that the exact ])rop(»rtion of silver in a given 
weight of the compound be ascertained, and this is done by a method called the 
liamkl assay, wliich may be exj)lained as follows: 

The silver and co})i)er may both be entirely dissolved in nitric acid ; and if to 
a solution thus made another of common salt in water be added, the silver will 
be precii)itated in the form of a white p(jwder, which is an ins^duble chhjrido, 
while the copper will remain unatl'ected. 

Now it has been ascertained that 100 jiarts by weight of pure salt will con- 



424 ASSAY OF GOLD AND SILVER COINS. 

vert into chloride of silver just 184.25 parts of pure silver; consequently the 
quantity of salt necessary to convert into chloride 1000 parts of silver is 542.74, 
as found by the proportion — 

184.25 : 100 : : 1000 : 542.74. 

A standard solution of salt is accordingly so prepared as that a given measure 
(the French decilitre) shall contain 542.74 thousandths of a gram of salt. 
The normal weight employed for silver assays is the gram, (equal to about 
15.4 troy grains,) which is marked 1000, and has its subdivisions, in practical 
weighings, to the half or quarter thousandth. 

Besides this standard solution, which effects the main precipitation of chloride 
of silver, there is a decimal solntion, of one-tenth the proportion of salt, which 
it is expedient to use for the lesser and final precipitations. 

In the mode of assay under consideration, it is necessary that the portion of 
alloyed silver used shall contain as nearly as may be 1000 parts of pure silver. 
The rigid standard requires that of 1000 parts by weight 900 shall be of pure 
silver ; but the law allows a variation from this ratio, provided that it do not 
exceed three thousandths. The fineness may, therclbre, be as low as 897, and 
as high as 903. In the practice of the assay, it is found most convenient to 
assume the lower extreme. Now, the weight of metal of the fineness 897, which 
would contain 1000 parts of silver, is 1114.83, as found by the proportion — 

897 : 1000 : : 1000 : 1114.83. 

The nearest integer to this number is employed, and the weight of metal 
taken for the assay is 1115. 

PROCLSS or ASSAY. 

The reserved silver coins are melted together in a black-lead crucible, with 
the addition of fine charcoal within the pot, to prevent oxidation, and to allow 
of dipping out. After stirring, a small portion of the fluid metal is poured 
quickly into water, producing a gramdation, from which the portion for assay is 
taken. As this differs from the mode pursued with gold, it must be specially 
noted that in the case of silver alloyed with copper there is a separation, to a 
greater or less degree, between the two metals in the act of gradual solidifica- 
tion. Thus an ingot cooled in a mould, or any single coin cut out of such ingot, 
though really 900 thousandths fine on the average, will show such variations, 
according to the place of cutting, as might even exceed the limits allowed by 
law. This fact has been established by many experiments, both in this mint 
and the mint of Paris, since the enactment of our mint law ; and it possesses the 
stubbornness of a law of chemistry. But the sudden chill produced by throwing 
the liquid metal into water yields a granulation of entirely homogeneous mix- 
tTu-e, and it can be proved that the same fineness results, whether by assaying a 
single granule, or part of one, or a number together. 

From this sample the weight of 11 15 thousandths is taken, which is dissolved 
in a glass bottle with nitric acid. 

Into this solution the large pipette-full of standard solution of salt is intro- 
duced, and it produces immediately a white precipitate, which is chloride of silver, 
and which contains, of the metallic silver, 1000 parts. 

To make this chloride subside to the bottom of the vessel and leave the liquid 
clear, it is necessary that it be Aaolently shaken in the bottle ; and this is accord- 
ingly done by a mechanical arrangement, for the necessary time. 

Unless the coins have chanced to be below the allowable limit of standard, 
the liquid will still contain silver in solution, and accordingly a portion of the 
decimal solution is introduced from the small pipette, capable of precipitating a 



ASSAY OP GOLD AND SILVER COINS. 



425 



thousandth of silver, and a white ch^ud of chloride will show itself. More doses 
are added if the indications require it. 

The liquid is again shaken and. cleai'ed ; and the process is thus repeated 
until the addition of the salt water shows only a faint trace of chloride below 
the upper surface of the l»iquid. 

Let us suppose, for the sake of an e^rample, that three measures of the decimal 
solution have been used with effect. This will show that the' 11 1-5 parts of the 
coin contained 1003 of pure silver; and thus the proportion of pure silver in the 
whole alloyed metal is ascertained. 

TEST ASSAY. 

For the foregoing process to be exact, it is necessary that the saline solution 
be of the true standard strength, or be such that the quantity of it, measm'ed in 
the large pipette, shall be just sufficient to precipitate 1000 parts of silver. This 
cannot be assumed ^\•ithout proof, and a test assay is accordingly made as fol- 
lows : 

A roll of silver, known to be of absolute purity, is kept from year to year, in 
an enveloj)e, under the seal of the chairman of the assay commissioners. This 
being opened in their presence, a portion of the silver is taken, and 1004 parts 
carefully weighed off and submitted to the process of assay described above. If 
the salt water used be of the exact standard, it is evident that as the solution in 
the larger pipette will preci})it<ate 1000 parts of silver, four measures of the deci- 
mal solution will be required to precipitate the remaining four parts. 

But as the nonual or standard solution is affected, from day to daj'', by changes 
of temperatm'e or other influences, the finishing decimal doses may be more or 
fewer ; and the other assays are to be corrected by the proof-piece accordingly. 

CALCULATION OF FIN E.NESS. 

By the assay thus corrected, the number of parts of silver contained in 1115 
of the metal under trial is ascertained ; and the fineness, in thousandths, is then 
found by the proportion: As 1115 is to the number of parts of fine silver, so is 
1000 to the fineness of the alloyed silver, in thousandths. 

Thus, if the assay show the presence 1005i parts of fine silver, the fineness 
of the alloyed silver will be 901.8 thousandths, as found by the proportion — 

1115 : 1005.5 : : 1000 : 901.79. 

It is on this principle that the following table is constructed. The numbers 
at the top and the fractions at the side correspond to the measures of the decimal 
solution used, corrected by the test assay. The numbers in the body of the table 
show the corresponding fineness of the assay-piece, of which the weight was 1115 
parts : 








1 


2 


3 


4 


5 


6 





89G.9 


897.7 


898.G 


899.6 


900.4 


901.3 


902.2 


i 


897.1 


898.0 


898.9 


899.8 


900.7 


901.6 


902.5 


i 


897.3 


898.2 


899.1 


900.0 


900.9 


901.8 


902.7 


i 


897.5 


898.4 


899.3 


900.2 


901.1 


902.0 


902.9 



426 ASSAY OF GOLD AND SILVER COINS. 

In the testing of single pieces it is to be expected that any gold coin, or a cut 
from any part thereof, will conform faithfully to the bounds prescribed by law. 
But the silver coins, in addition to the som'ce of error abeady pointed out, (the 
manner of taking assay samples,) are somewhat liable to show too high a result, 
from several causes. At certain grades of alloy, and especially the standard of 
900, the gradual cooling of ingots will draw the better metal to the interior, and 
the worst towards the exterior and the edges. Hence the fineness of pieces cut 
off the central part of the ingot is higher than the average fineness of the ingot. 
Again, in casting ingots from a melting-pot the exposure of the metal to the air 
during all the time of dipping out, and at the same time the increase of heat 
towards the bottom of the pot, unavoidably produces a progressive refining, so 
that the lower ingot is of a higher quality than the average of the whole melt; 
and, of course, a coin cut from it will be higher still. Yet with the precautions 
observed, om" silver coins should very rarely exceed the superior limit assigned 
by law ; and there is no good reason why they should fall below the legal limit, 
unless it be the taking of an unfair sample for assay. 



A STATEMENT OF FOREIGN GOLD AND SILVER COINS, PRE- 
PARED BY THE DIRECTOR OF THE MINT, TO ACCOMPANY 
HIS ANNUAL REPORT, IN PURSUANCE OF THE ACT OF 
FEBRUARY 21, 1857. 

EXPLANATORY REMARKS. 

The first column embraces the names of the countries where the coins are 
issued ; the second contains the names of the coin, only the principal denomina- 
tions being given. The other sizes are proportional ; and when this is not the 
case, the deviation is stated. 

The third column expresses the weight of a single piece in fractions of the 
troy ounce canied to the thousandth, and in a few cases to the ten thousandth, 
of an ounce. The method is preferable to expressing the weight in grains for 
commercial pm-poses, and coiresponds better with the terms of the mint. It may 
be readily transferred to weight in grains by the following rules : Remove the 
decimal point ; from one-half deduct four per cent, of that half, and the remain- 
der will be grains. 

The fourth column expresses the fineness in thousandths, i. e. the number of 
parts of pure gold or silver in 1000 parts of the coin. 

The fifth and sixth columns of the first table express the valuation of gold. 
In the fifth is shown the value as compared with the legal contents, or amount 
of fine gold in our coin. In the sixth is shown the value as paid in the mint, 
after the uniform deduction of one-half of one per cent. The fonner is the value 
for any other purposes than re-coinage, and especially for the purpose of com- 
parison ; the latter is the value in exchange for our coins at the mint. 

For the silver there is no fixed legal valuation, the law providing for shifting 
the price according to the condition of demand and supply. The present price 
of standard silver is 122^ cents per ounce, at which rate the values in the fifth 
column of the second table are calculated. In a few cases, where the coins could 
not be procured, the data are assumed from the legal rates, and so stated. 



ASSAY OF GOLD AND SILVER COINS. 
Gold Coins. 



421 



Country. 



Denominations. 



Weight. 



Fineness. 



Value. 



Val. after 
Deduct'n. 



Australia 

Australia 

Austria 

Austria 

Austria 

Belgium , 

Bolivia.. 

Brazil 

Central America 
Central America 

Chili 

Chili 

Denmark 

Ecuador 

England 

England 

France 

France 

Germany, north 
Germany, north 
Germany, north 
Germany, south 

Greece 

Hindostan 

Italy 

Japan 

Japan 

Mexico 

Mexico .. 

Mexico 

Naples 

Netherlands 

New Granada.. 
New Granada.. 
New Granada.. 

Peru 

Peru 

Portugal ...... 

Prussia 

Eome 

Ru.ssia 

Spain 

Spain 

Sweden 

Tunis 

Turkey 

Tuscany 



Pound Of 18.^2 

Sovereign of 1855-'C0 

Ducat 

Sovereign 

New Union Coin — assumed. 

2b Francs - 

Doubloon 

20 Milreis 

2 Escudos 

4 Reals 

Old Doubloon 

lOPesos 

lUThaler 

4 Escudos 

Pound or Sdvereign, new.. 
Pound or Sovereign, ave'ge. 

20 Francs, new 

20 Francs, average 

10 Thaler 

10 Thaler, Prussian 

Krone (Crown) 

Ducat 

20 Drachms 

Mohur 

20 Lire 

Old Cobang , 

Old Cobang 

Doubloon, average 

Doubloon, new 

20 Pesos (Max.) 

G Ducati, new 

lOGuilders 

Old Doubloon, Bogata 

Old Doubloon, Popayan... 

10 Pesos 

Old Doubloon 

20 Soles 

Gold Crown 

New Crown — assumed 

2^ Scudi, new 

5 Roubles 

100 Reals 

no Reals 

Ducat 

25 Piastres 

100 Piastres 

Seguiu 



Dec. 
281 
256. 5 
112 
363 
357 
254 
867 
575 
209 
027 
867 
492 
427 
433 
256. 7 
256.2 
207.5 
207 
427 
427 
357 
112 
185 
374 
207 
362 
289 
867.5 
867.5 
086 
245 
215 
868 
867 
525 
867 
055 
308 
357 
140 
210 
268 
215 
111 
161 
231 
112 



Thovs. 
916. 5 
916 

986 

900 

900 

899 

870 

917. 5 

853. 5 

875 

870 

900 

695 

844 

916.5 

916 

899 

899 

895 

903 

900 

986 

900 

916 

898 

568 

572 

866 

870.5 

875 

996 

899 

870 

858 

891.5 

868 

898 

912 

900 

900 

916 

896 

869. 5 

875 

900 

915 

999 



$5. 32. 4 

4. 85. 7 
2. 28. 3 
6. 75. 4 
6.64.2 
4.72 

15. 59. 3 

10.90.6 

3. 68. 8 

0. 48. 8 

15. 59. 3 

9. 15. 4 
7.90 

7. 55. 5 
4.86.3 
4. 85. 1 
3. 85. 8 
3. 84. 7 
7.90 

7. 97. 1 
6. 64. 2 

2. 28. 2 
3. 44. 2 
7. 08. 2 
3. 84. 3 
4.44 
3. 57. 6 

15. 53 
15.61.1 
19.64.3 
5.04.4 

3. 99. 7 
15.61.1 
15.37.8 

9. 67. 5 
15.55.7 
19. 21. 3 

5. 80. 7 

6. 64. 2 

2. 60. 5 
3.97.6 

4. 96. 4 

3. 86. 4 
2. 23. 7 
2. 99. 5 

4. 36. 9 
2.31.3 



$5. 29. 7 
4. 83. 3 
2.27 
6.72 

6. 60. 9 
4. 09. 8 

15.51.5 

10.85.1 

3. 66. 9 

0. 48. 6 

15.51.5 

9. lO.S 

7. m. 1 

7.51.7 
4. 83. 9 
4. 82. 7 
3. 83. 9 
3. 82. 8 
7. 86. 1 
7. 93. 1 
6. 60. 9 
2. 27. 1 
3. 42. 5 
7.04.6 
3. 82. 3 
4.41.8 
3. 55. 3 
15. 45. 2 
15.53.3 
19.54.5 
5.01.9 

3. 97. 6 
15. .53. 3 
15..30. 1 

9. 62. 7 
1.5.47.9 
19.11.7 

5. 77. 8 
6. 60. 9 
2. .59. 2 
3. 95. 7 
4. 93. 9 

3. 84. 5 

2. 22. 6 
2. 98. 1 
4.34.8 
2. 30. 1 



428 



ASSAY OF GOLD AND . SILVER COINS. 

Silver Coins. ' 



Country. 



Austria 

Austria 

Austria 

Austria 

Austria 

A ustria 

Belgium 

Bolivia 

Bolivia 

Brazil 

Canada 

Central America 

Chili 

Chili 

China 

China 

Denmark 

England 

England 

France 

France 

Germany, north 
Germany, north 
Germany, south 
Germany, south 

Greece 

Hindostan 

Japan 

Japan , 

Mexico 

Mexico 

Mexico . . 

Naples 

Netherlands 

Norway 

New Granada 

Peru 

Peru , 

Peru 

Peru , 

Prussia 

Prussia , 

Rome 

Russia 

Sardinia 

Spain 

Sweden 

Switzerland 

Tunis 

Turkey 

Tuscany 



Denominations. 



Old Rix Dollar 

Old Scudo 

Florin before 1858 

New Florin 

New Union Dollar 

Maria Theresa Dollar, J780 

5 Francs 

New Dollar 

Half Dollar 

Double Milreis 

20 Cents 

Dollar 

Old Dollar 

New Dollar 

Dollar, (English) — assumed 

iO Cents 

2 Rigsdaler 

Shilling, new 

Shilling, average 

5 Franc, average 

2 Franc 

Thaler before 1857 

New Thaler 

Florin before 1857 

New Florin — assumed 

5 Drachms •. 

Rupee 

Itzebu 

New Itzebu 

Dollar, new 

Dollar, average 

Peso of Maximilian 

Scudo 

2^Guilders 

Specie Daler 

Dollar of 1857 

Old Dollar 

Dollar of 1858 

Half Dollar 1835 and 1838 

Sol 

Thaler before 1857 

New Thaler 

Scudo 

Rouble 

5 Lire 

New Pistareen 

Rix Dollar 

2 Francs 

5 Piastres 

20 Piastres 

Florin 



Weight. 



Oz. 

0. 
0. 
0. 
0. 
0. 
0. 
0. 
0. 
0. 
0. 
0. 
0. 
0. 
9. 
0. 
0. 
0. 
0. 
0. 
0. 
0. 
0. 
0. 
0. 
0. 
0. 
0. 
0. 
0. 
0. 
0. 
0. 
0. 
0. 
0. 
0. 
0. 
0. 
0. 
0. 
0. 
0. 
0. 
0. 
0. 
0. 
0. 
0. 
0. 
0. 
0. 



Dec. 

902 

836 

451 

397 

596 

895 

803 

643 

432 

820 

150 

866 

864 

801 

866 

087 

927 

182.5 

178 

800 

320 

712 

595 

340 

340 

719 

374 

279 

279 

867.5 

866 

861 

844 

804 

927 

803 

866 

766 

433 

802 

712 

595 

864 

667 

800 

166 

092 

323 

511 

770 

220 



Fineness. 



Value. 



Thous. 
833 
902 
833 
900 
900 
838 
897 
903.5 
667 
918.5 
925 
850 
908 
900.5 
901 
901 
877 
924.5 
925 
900 
835 
750 
900 
900 
900 
900 
916 
991 
890 
903 
901 
902.5 
830 
944 
877 
896 
901 
909 
650 
900 
750 
900 
900 
875 
900 
899 
750 
899 
898.5 
830 
925 



1.02.3 

1.02.6 
51.1 
48.6 
73.1 

1. 02. 1 
98 
79.1 
39.2 

1.02.5 
18.9 

1.00.2 

1. 06. 8 
98.2 

1. 06. 2 
10.6 

1.10.7 
23 
22.4 
98 
36.4 
72.7 
72.9 
41.7 
41.7 
88.1 
46.6 
37.6 
33.8 

1. 06. 6 

1.06.2 

1. 05. 5 
95.3 

1. 03. 3 

1.10.7 
98 

1.06.2 
94.8 
38.3 
98.2 
72.7 
72.9 

1. 05. 8 
79.4 
98 
20.3 

1.11.5 
39.5 
62.5 
87 
27.6 



LIST OF PUBLICATIONS OF THE SMIinSONIAN INSTITUTION TO JULY, 1869. 



A. Journal of proceedings of the regents of the Smithsonian Institution, at 
the city of Washington, beginning on the first JMonday of September, 184G. 
1S4G. Svo., pp. 32. 

13. Report of the organization committee of the Smithsonian Institution, with 
the resolutions accompanying the same and adopted by the Board of Regents ; 
also, the will of the testator, the act accepting the bequest, and the act organiz- 
ing the Institution. Published by authority of the Board of Regents. 1847, 
8vo., pp. 32. 

C. Digest of the act of Congress establishing the Smithsonian Institution. 
Passed August 10, 184G. 8vo., pp. 8. 

D. Address delivered on occasion of laying the corner stone of the Smithson- 
ian Institution, May 1, 1847. By George M. Dallas, chancellor of the Institu- 
tion. 1847. Svo., pp. 8. 

E. Smithson's bequest. Professor Henry's exposition, before the New Jer- 
sey Historical Society, at its meeting in Princeton, on Wednesday, September 
27, by in\atation from the executive committee. 1847. 8vo, pp. 8. 

F. First report of the secretary of the Smithsonian Institution to the Board of 
Regents ; giving a programme of organization, and an account of the operations 
during the year. Presented December 8, 1847. 1848. 8vo., pp. 48. 

G. Report from the Board of Regents, submitted to Congress, of the opera- 
tions, expenditures, and condition of the Smithsonian Institution. Read and 
ordered to be printed, March 3, 1847. Senate Doc. 211; 29th Congress, 2d 
Session. 1847. 8vo., pp. 38. 

H. Second report of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution, to 
the Senate and House of Representatives, showing the operations, expenditures, 
and condition of the Institution during the year 1847. January 6, 1848, ordered 
to be printed. 30th Congress, 1st Session. Senate Miscellaneous No. 23. 

1848. 8vo., pp. 208. 

I. Third annual report of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institu- 
tion to the Senate and Houfte of Representatives, sliowing the operations, expen- 
ditures, and condition of the Institution, during the year 1848. February 19, 

1849, ordered to be printed. 30th Congress, 2d Session. H. R. Miscellaneous 
No. 48. 1849. 8vo., pp. 04. 

J. Programme of organization of the Smithsonian Institution. [Presented in 
the first annual rei)ort of the secretary, and adopted by the Board of Regents, 
December 13, 1S47.J 1847. 4to., pp. 4. 

K. Con'cspondence relative to the acceptance for publication of the ethno- 
logical memoir of Messrs. Squicr and Davis. 8vo., pp. 8. 



430 PUBLICATIONS OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 

L. [First] Report of the organization committee of the Smithsonian Institu- 
tion. Reprinted from the National Intelligencer, December 8, 1846. Svo., pp. 8. 

M. Reports, Etc., of the Smithsonian Institution, exhibiting its plans, opera- 
tions, and financial condition up to January 1, 1849. From the third annual 
report of the Board of Regents. Presented to Congress February 19, 1849. 
1849. 8vo., pp. 72. 

N. Officers and Regents of the Smithsonian Institution, with the act of Con- 
gress accepting the bequest, and the act incorporating said Institution. 1846, 
8vo., pp. 14. 

0. An act to establish the Smithsonian Institution, pp. 8. 

P. Hints on public architecture, containing, among other illustrations, views 
and plans of the Smithsonian Institution : together with an appendix relative to 
building materials. Prepared, on behalf of the building committee of the Smith- 
sonian Institution, by Robert Dale Owen, chairman of the committee. 1849. 
4to., pp. 140, 15 plates and 99 woodcuts. 

Q. Check list of periodical publications received in the reading-room of the 
Smithsonian Institution, for the year 1853. 1853. 4to., pp. 28. 

REGULAR SERIES. 

1. Ancient monuments of the Mississippi valley : comprising the results of 
extensive original surveys and explorations. By E. G. Squier, A. M., and E. H. 
Davis, M. D. Accepted for publication by the Smithsonian Institution, June, 
1847. 4to., pp. 346, 48 plates and 207 woodcuts. (S. C. i.) 

2. Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge. Vol. I. 1848. 4to., pp. 346, 
48 plates and 207 woodcuts. 

CONTENTS. 

(1.) Squier and Davis, Ancient monuments, Mississippi valley. 

3. Researches relative to the planet Neptune. By Sears C. Walker, esq. 
[1850.] 4to., pp. 60. (S. C. II.' 

4. Ephemeris of Neptune for the opposition of 1848. By Sears C. Walker, 
esq. 1849. 4to., pp. 8. 

5. Appendix I. to vol. II. of the Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge. 
[Ephemeris of the planet Neptune for the date of the Lalande observafions of 
May 8 and 10, 1795, and for the opposition of 1846, '47, '48, and '49. By 
Sears C. Walker, esq. April, 1849.] 4to., pp. 32. (S. C. ii.) 

6. Appendix II. to vol. II. of the Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge : 
containing an ephemeris of the planet Neptune for the year 1850. By Sears C. 
Walker, esq. [April, 1850.] 4to., pp. 10. (S. C. ii.) 

7. Appendix III. to vol. II. of the Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge : 
Ephemeris of the planet Neptune for the year 1851. By Sears C. Walker, esq. 
[December, 1850.] 4to., pp. 10. (S. C. ii.) 

8. Occultations visible in the United States during the year 1848. [By John 
Downes.] 1848. 4to., pp. 12. 

9. Occultations visible in the United States during the year 1849. Computed 



PUBLICATIONS OF THK SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 431 

under the direction and at the expense of the Smithsonian Institution. By John 
Downcs. 1848. 4to., pp. 24. 

10. Occultations visible in the United States during the year 1850. Com- 
puted bv John Downe?, at the expense of the fund appropriated by Congress for 
the estabhshment of a Nautical Almanac, and published by the Smithsonian 
Institution. 1849. 4to., pp. 26. 

These three papers by Mr. Downes, Nos. 8, 9, 10, were not published in the series of 
Coutributions. 

11. Occultations visible in the United States during the year 1851. Com- 
puted by John Downes, at the expense of the fund appropriated by Congress for 
the establishment of a Nautical Almanac, and published by the Smithsonian 
Institution. [October,] 1850. 4to., pp. 26. (S. C. ii.) 

12. On the vocal sounds of Laura Bridgeman, the blind deaf mute at Boston ; 
compared with the elements of phonetic language. By Francis Lieber. [1850.] 
4to., pp. 32, and one plate. (S. C. ii.) 

13. Contributions to the physical geography of the United States. Part I. 
On the physical geography of the Mississippi valley, with suggestions for the 
improvement of the navigation of the Ohio and other rivers : By Charles Ellet, 
jr., civil engineer. Received September 17, 1849. [1850.] 4to., pp. 64, 
and 1 plate. (S. C. ii.) 

14. A Memoir on 3Iosasaurus, and the three allied new genera, Ilolcodus, 
Conosaunis, and Amplwrosteus, By Robert W. GiJabes, M. D. Received 
November 15, 1849. [November, 1850.] 4to., pp. 14, and 3 plates. (S. C. ii.) 

15. Aborig-inal monuments of the State of New York. Comprising the results 
of original surveys and explorations ; with an illustrative appendix. By E. G. 
Squier, A. M. Accepted for publication, October 20, 1849. [1850.] 4to., pp* 
188, 14 plates and 72 woodcuts. (S. C. ii.) 

16. The classification of insects from embryological data. By Professor 
Louis Agassiz. [Presented to the American Association for the advancement of 
science, at Cambridge, August, 1849. J Received March 6, 1850. [1850.] 
4to., pp. 28, and one plate. (S. C. ii.) 

17. Memoir on the explosiveness of nitre, with a view to elucidate its agency 
in the tremendous explosion of Jidy. 1845, in New York. By Robert Hare, M.D. 
Accepted for publication, October, 1849. [1850.] 4to., pp. 20. (S. C. ii.) 

18. Report on the history of the discovery of Neptune. By Benjamin 
Apthoi'p Gould, jr. 1850. 8vo., pp. 5<o. 

19. Directions for meteorological observations, intended for the first class 
of observers. [By Arnold Guyot.] 1850. 8vo., pp. 40, and 9 woodcuts. 

20. Microscopical examination of soundings, made by the United States Coast 
Survey off the Atlantic coast of the United States. By Professor J. W. Bailey. 
[January, 1851.] 4to., pp. 16, and 1 plate. (S. C. ii.) 

21. Fourth annual report of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Insti- 
tution, to the Senate and House of Representatives, showing the operations, 
expenditures, and condition of the Institution during the year 1849. 31st Con- 



432 PUBLICATIONS OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 

gress, 1st Session. Senate Miscellaneous No. 120. Read July 29, 1850. 
Ordered to be printed July 30, 1850. Svo., pp. 272. 

22. Plantse Wrigbtianse Texauo-Neo-Mexicanae. By Professor Asa Gray, 

M. D. Part I. Accepted for publication March, 1850. [March, 1852.] 4to., 

pp. 146, and 10 plates. (S. C m.) 

An account of a collection of plants made by Charles Wright in western Texas, New Mex- 
ico, and Sonora, in the years 1H51 and 1852. 

23. Microscopical observations made in South Carolina, Georgia, and Florida. 
By Professor J. W. Bailey. Accepted for publication December 1, 1850. [1851.] 
4to., pp. 48, and 3 plates. (S. C. ii.) 

24. Appendix I. to vol. III. of the Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge ; 
containing an ephemeris of the planet Neptune for the year 1852. By Sears C. 
Walker, esq. [1853.] 4to., pp. 10. (S. C. lU.) 

25. Notices of public libraries in the United States of America. By Charles 
C. Jewett, librarian of the Smithsonian Institution. Printed by order of Con- 
gress as an appendix to the fourth annual report of the Board of Regents of 
the Smithsonian Institution. 1851. 8vo., pp. 210. 

26; Smithsonian Contribuiions to Knowledge. Vol. II. 185]. 4to., pp. 
464, and 24 plates. 

CONTENTS. 

(3.) Walker. Researches relative to Neptune. 
(12.) Lieber. Vocal sounds of Laura Brid^eman. 
(20.) Bailey. Microscopical soundings off Atlantic coast. 
(13.) Ellet. Physical geography Mississippi valley and improvement of rivers. 
(14.) Gibbes. Mosasaurus and three allied genera. 
(16.) Agassiz. Classification of insects from embryological data. 
(17.) Hare. Explosiveness of nitre. 

(23. ) Bailey. Microscopical observations in South Carolina, Georgia, and Florida. 
(15.) Squier. Aboriginal monuments of state of New York. 

(4.) Walker. Ephemeris of Neptune for 1848. 

(6. ) Walker. Ephemeris of Neptune for 1 850. 

(7.) Walker. Ephemeris of Neptune for 1851. 
(11.) Downes. Occultations visible in the United States in 1851. 

27. On recent improvements in the chemical arts. By Professor James C. 
Booth and Campbell Morfit. 1852. 8vo., pp. 216. (M. C. ii.) 

28. Fifth annual report of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Insti- 
tution, to the Senate and House of Representatives, showing the operations, 
expenditures, and condition of the Institution, during the j^ear 1850. Special 
session, March, 1851. Senate Miscellaneous No. 1. Read March 1, 1851. 
Ordered to be printed March 7. 1851. 8vo., pp. 326. 

29. Occultations visible in the United States during the year 1852. Com- 
puted bj' John Downes, at the expense of the fund appropriated by Congress for 
the establishment of a Nautical Almanac, and published by the Smithsonian 
Institution. 1851. 4to., pp. 34. (S. C. in.) 

30. Contributions to the natural history of the fresh water fishes of North 
America. By Charles Girard. I — A monograph of the cottoids. Accepted 



PUBLICATIONS OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 433 

for puUication December, 1850. [December, 1851.] 4to., pp. 80, ami 3 plates. 
(S. C. III.) 

31. A Collection of meteorological tables, with otlicr tables useful in prac- 
tical meteorology. Prepared by order of the Smithsonian Institution. By 
Arnold Guyot. 1852. 8vo., pp. 212. 

32. Nereis Boreali- Americana : or, contributions to a history of the n)arinc 
alga) of North America. Part I. — Melanospermete. By Professor William 
Henry Harvey. Accepted for publication July, 1851. [January, 1852.] 4to., 
pp. 152, and 12 colored plates. (S. C. iii.) 

33. The Law of deposit of the flood tide : its dynamical action and office. 
By Charles Henry Davis, Lieutenant U. S. Navy. Accepted for publication 
December, 1851. [1852.] 4to., pp. 14. (S. C. iii.) 

34. Directions for collecting, preserving, and transporting specimens of natural 
history. Prepared for the use of the Smithsonian Institution. Third edition. 
March 1859. Svo., pp. 40., 6 woodcuts. (M. C. ii.) 

35. Observations on teirestrial magnetism. By Professor John Locke, 
Accepted for publication July, 1851. [April, 1852.] 4to., pp. 30. (S. C. iii.) 

36. Researches on electrical rheometry. By Professor A. Secchi. Accepted 
for publication September, 1850. [May, 1852.] 4to., pp. 60, and 3 plates. (S. 
C. III.) 

37. Descriptions of ancient works in Ohio. By Charles Whittlesey. Ac- 
cepted for publication May, 1850. [1851.] 4to., pp. 20, and 7 plates. 
(S. C. III.) 

38. Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge. Vol. III. 1852. 4to., pp. 
564, and 35 plates. 

CONTENTS, 

(35.) Locke. Terrestrial magnetism. 

(36.) Seccbi. Electrical iheoraetry. 

(30.) Girard. Monograph of the cottoiJs. 

(32.) Harvey. Marino algrc of North America. Part I. — Molanospcrmeae. 

(22.) Gray. Plantse Wrightianai Texano-Neo-Mexican£e. Part I. 

(33.) Davis. Law of deposit of the flood tide. 

(37.) Whittlesey. Descriptions of ancient works in Ohio, 

(24.) Walker. Ephemeris of the planet Neptune for 1852. 

(29.) Downcs. Occultations visible in United States during 1852. 

30. Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge. Vol. IV. 1852. 4to, pp. 426. 

CONTENTS. 

(40.) Riggs, Dakota Grammar and Dictionary. 

40. Grammar and dictionary of the Dakota language. Collected by the 
members of the Dakota mission. Edited by Rev. S. R. Riggs, A. M., Mission- 
ary of the American Board of Commissioners for Foreign Missions, under tho 
patronage of tho Historical Society of Minnesota. Accepted for publication 
December, 1851. [1852.] 4to., pp. 414. (S. C. iv.) 

A small edition of tho grammar only was printed separately. 
28 S ■ 



434 PUBLICATIONS OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 

41. Memoir on the extinct species of American ox. By Joseph Leidy, M. 
D. Accepted for publication September, 1852. [December, 1852.] 4to., pp. 
20, and 5 plates. (S. C. v.) 

42. PlantJB Wrightianae Texano-Neo-Mexicanae. Part II, By Professor 
Asa Gray. Accepted for publication October, 1852. [February, 1853.] 4to., 
pp. 120, and 4 plates. (S. C. v.) 

43. Nereis Boreali-Americana : or, contributions to a histoiy of the marine 
algse of North America. Part II. — Rhodospermeae. By Professor W. H. Har- 
vey. [March, 1853.] 4to., pp. 262, and 24 plates, colored. (S. C. v.) 

44. A flora and fauna within living animals. By Joseph Leidy, M. D. 
Accepted for publication December, 1851. [April, 1853.] 4to., pp. 68, and 
10 plates. (S. C. v.) 

45. Anatomy of the nervous system of Eana pipiens. By Jeffries Wyman, 
M. D. Accepted for publication May, 1852. [March, 1853.] 4to., pp. 52, 4 
woodcuts and 2 plates. (S. C. v.) 

46. PlantsD Fremontianse ; or, descriptions of plants collected by Colonel J. 
0. Fremont in California. By John Torre}^, F. L. S. Accepted for publication 
September, 1850. [1853.] 4to., pp. 24, and 10 plates. (S. C. vi.) 

47. On the construction of catalogues of libraries, and their publication by 
means of separate, stereotyped titles. With rules and examples. By Charles C. 
Jewett, Librarian of the Smithsonian Institution. 1852. 8vo.; pp. 78. Second 
edition, 1853. 8vo., pp. 108. 

48. Bibliographia Americana Historico-Naturalis. A. D. 1851. Auctore 
Carolo Girard. December, 1852. 8vo., pp. 68. 

49. Catalogue of north American reptiles in the museum of the Smithsonian 
Institution. Part I. — Serpents. By S. F. Baird and C. Girard. January, 
1853. Svo., pp. 188. (M. C. ii.) 

50. Synopsis of the marine invertebrata of Grand Manan : or the region about 
the mouth of the Bay of Fundy, New Brunswick. By William Stimpson. 
Accepted for publication January, 1853. [March, 1853.] 4to., pp. 68, and 3 
plates. (S. C. VI.) 

51. Sixth annual report of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Insti- 
tution, to the Senate and House of Representatives, showing the operations, 
expenditures, and condition of the Institution during the year 1851, and the pro- 
ceedings of the Board of Regents up to date. [32d Congress, 1st session, Senate 
Mis. No. 108. 1852. 8vo., pp. 104. 

52. Winds of the northern hemisphere. By Professor James H. Coffin, A. M. 
Accepted for publication November, 1850. Revised, November, 1852. [Novem. 
ber, 1853.] 4to., pp. 200, 13 plates, and 6 woodcuts. (S. C. v(.) 

53. Portraits of north American Indians, with sketches of scenery. Etc., 
Painted by J. M. Stanley. Deposited with the Smithsonian Institution. 
[December, 1852.] 8vo., pp. 76. (M. C. ii.) 

54. Occulations of planets and stars by the moon, during the year 1853. 
Computed by John Downes, at the expense of the fund appropriated by Con- 



PUBLICATIONS OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 435 

gross for the establishment of a, Nautical Almanac, and published b}' the Smith- 
sonian Institution. 1853. 4to., pp. 36. (S. C. vi.) 

55. Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge. Vol. V. 1S53. 4to., pp. 
538, and 45 plates. 

• CONTENTS. 

(44.) Leidj. Flora and fauna within living animals. 

(41.) Leidy. Extinct species of American ox. 

(45.) VVyman. Anatomy of the nervous system of Rana pipiens. 

(43.) Harvey. Marine alga3 of North America. Part II. — RhodospermejB. 

(42.) Gray. Plantaj Wrightianfe. Part II. 

56. Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge. Vol. VI. 1854. 4to., pp. 
476, and 53 plates. 

CONTENTS. 

(46.) Torrey. Plantse Fr^montiante. 

(GO.) Torrey. Batis maritima. 

(61.) Torrey. Darlingtonia californica. 

(50.) Stimpson. Marine invertebrata of Grand Manan. 

(.52.) CofiBn. Winds of the northern hemisphere. 

(53.) Leidy. Ancient fauna of Nebraska. 

(54.) Downes. Occultations during the year 1853. 

57. Seventh annual report of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian 
Institution, to the Senate and House of Representatives, showing the operations, 
expenditures, and condition of the Institution during the year 1852, and the pro- 
ceedings of the Board of Regents up to date. [32d Congress, 2d session, Senate 
Mis. No. 53.] 1853. 8vo., pp. 96. 

58. The ancient fauna of Nebraska: or, a description of remains of extinct 
mammalia and chelonia, from the ^[auvaises Terres of Nebraska. By Professor 
Joseph Leidy, M. D. Accepted for publication Decembei', 1852. [June, 1853.] 
4to., pp. 126, 3 woodcuts, and 25 plates. (S. C. vi.) 

59. Account of a tornado near New Harmony, Indiana, April 30, 1852, with 
a map of the track, &c. B}'^ John Chappelsmith. Accepted for publication 
December, 1853. [April, 1855.] 4to., pp. 12, one map, one plate, and two wood- 
cuts. (S. C. vir.) 

60. Observations on the Batis maritima of Linnaeus. By John Torrey, F. 
L. S. Accepted for publication September, 1850. [April, 1853.] 4to., pp. 8, 
and 1 plate. (S. C. vi.) 

61. On the DarUnfjtonia californica; a new pitcher-plant from northern Cali- 
ifornia. By John Torrey, F. L. S. Accepted for publication Sei)tember, 1S50. 
[April, 1853.] 4to., pp. 8, and 1 plate. (S. C. vi.) 

62. Catalogue of the described coleoptera of the United States. By 
■»l''riedrich Ernst Melsheiiner, M. U. Revised by S. S. Ilaldeman and J. L. Le 

(Jonto. July, 1853. 8vo., pp. 190. 

63. Notes on new species and localities of microscopical organisms. By 
Professor J. W. Bailey, M. D. Accepted for publication November, 1853 
[February 1854.J 4to., pp. 16, 4 woodcuts, and 1 plate. (S. C. Vii.) 



436 PUBLICATIONS OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 

64. List of foreign institutions in correspondence with the Smithsonian Insti- 
tution. 1856. 8vo., pp. 16. 

65. Registry of periodical phenomena. Folio, pp. 4. 

66. The annular eclipse of May 26, 1854. Published under the authority 
of Hon. James C. Dobbin, Secretary of the Navy, by the Smithsonian Institu- 
tion and Nautical Almanac. 1854. 8vo., pp. 14, and 1 map. 

67. Eighth annual report of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Insti- 
tution, showing the operations, expenditures, and condition of the Institution up 
to January 1, 1854, and the proceedings of the Board up to July 8, 1854 
[33d Congress, 1st session, House of Representatives, Mis. Doc. No. 97.] 1854. 
8vo., pp. 310. 

This is the first of the series of annual reports published by Congress as a bound volume, 
and it contains amons: other articles the first, second, third, fourtli, fifth, si.xth, and seventh 
reports of Professor Henry, the secretary ; reports of committee on distribution of Smith- 
sonian income; will of Sraithsou ; notices of life of Smithson, and list of his scientific 
papers ; Acts of Congress accepting the bequest, and establishing the Institution. 

68. Vocabulary of the jargon or trade language of Oregon. [By Dr. B. 
Rush Mitchell, United States Navy, with additions by Professor W. W. Turner. 
April, 1853.] 8vo., pp. 22. 

69. List of domestic institutions in correspondence with the Smithsonian Insti- 
tution. 1853. 8vo., pp. 16. 

70. The antiquities of Wisconsin, as surveyed and described. By I. A. Lap- 
ham, civil engineer. Etc., on behalf of the American Antiquarian Society. 
Accepted for publication, December, 1853. [May, 1855.] 4to., pp. lUS, 61 
woodcuts and 55 plates. (S. C. vii.) 

71. Archaeology of the United States, or sketches, historical and biblio- 
graphical, of the progress of information and opinion respecting vestiges of 
antiquity in the United States. By Samuel F. Haven. Accepted for publica- 
tion, January, 1855. [July, 1856.] 4to.,pp. 172. (S. C. vili.) 

72. A memoir on the extinct sloth tribe of North A.merica. By Professor 
Joseph Leidy, M. D. Acceptedforpublication, December, 1853. [June, 1855.] 
4to., pp. 70, and 16 plates. (S. 0. vii.) 

73. Appendix. Publications of learned societies and periodicals in the 
library of the Smithsonian Institution. Part I. [December 31, 1854.] [1855.] 
4to., pp. 40. (S. C. VII.) 

74. Catalogue of publications of the Smithsonian Institution. Corrected to 
June, 1862. 8vo., pp. 52. (M. C. v.) 

75. Ninth annual report of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution, 
showing the operations, expenditures, and condition of the Institution up to Janu- 
ary 1, 1855, and the proceedings of the Board up to February 24, 1855. [33d 
Congress, 2d session. House of Representatives, Mis. Doc. No. 37.] 1855. 8vo., 
pp. 464, 4 woodcuts. 

76. Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge. Vol. VII. 1855. 4to. pp. 
252, 70 woodcuts and 74 plates. 



PUBLICATIONS OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 437 

CONTENTS. 

(59.) Chappelsmith. Tornado near New Harmony, Indiana. 

(63.) Bailey. New species and localities of microscopic organisms. 

(70. ) Laphani. Antiquities of Wisconsin. 

(72.) Leidy. Extinct sloth tribe of North America. 

(73.) Publications of societies and periodicals in Smithsonian Library. Part I. 

77. Tenth annual report of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Insti- 
tution, showing the operations, expenditures, and condition of the Institution up 
to January 1, 1S5G, and the proceedings of the Board up to March 22, 185G. 
[34th Congress, 1st session. Senate Mis. Doc. No. 73.] 1856. 8vo., pp. 440, 
79 woodcuts. 

78. Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge. Vol. VIII. 1856. 4to., pp. 
556, 9 plates and 27 woodcuts. 

CONTENTS. 

(71.) Haven. Archaeology of the United States. 

(8L) Olmsted. Recent secular period of aurora borealis. 

(80.) Alvord. Tangencies of circles and of spheres. 

(82.) Jones. Chemical and physiological investigations relative to vertebrata. 

(84.) Force. Auroral Phenomena in Higher Northern Latitudes. 

(85.) Publications of societies and periodicals in Smithsonian Library. Part II. 

79. New tables for determining the values of the coefficients, in the pertur- 
bative function of planetary motion, which depend upon the ratio of the mean 
distances. By John D. Runkle. Accepted for publication, November, 1855. 
[November, 1856.] 4to., pp. 64. (S. 0. ix.) 

80. The tangencies of circles and of spheres. By Benjamin Alvord, major 
United States Army. Acceptedforpublication, January, 1855. [January', 1856.] 
4to., pp. 16, 25 woodcuts and 9 plates. (S. C. viii.) 

81. On the recent secular period of theaurora borealis. By Professor Denison 
Olmsted, LL.D. Accepted for publication, January, 1855. [May, 1856.] 
4to., pp. 52. (S. C. VIII.) 

82. Investigations, chemical and physiological, relative to certain American 
vertebrata. By Professor Joseph Jones, M. D. Accepted for pu'l)lication, 
March, 1856. [July, 1856.] 4to., pp. 150, and 27 woodcuts. (S. C. viii.) 

83. On the relative intensity of the heat and light of the sun upon different 
latitudes of the earth. By L. "W. Jleech, A. M. Accepted for publication, 
September, 1855. [November, 1856.] 4to., pp. 58, 5 woodcuts and 6 plates. 
(S. C. IX.) 

84. Appendix. Record of am'oral phenomena observed in the higlu;r northern 
latitudes. Compiled by Peter Force, f July, 1S56.J 4to.,pp. 122. (S. C.vili.) 

85. Appendix. Publications of learned societies and periodicals in the library 
of the Smithsonian Institution. I'art II. [May, 1S56.] 4to., pp. 38. (S. C 

VIII.) 

86. Observations on Mexican hi.story and archaeology, with a special notice 
of Zapotec remains, as delineated in j\Ir. J. G. Hawkins's drawings of Mitla, Etc. 
By Brantz Mayer. Accepted for publication, June, 1856. [November, 1856.] 
4to., pp. 36, 17 woodcuts and 4 plates. (S. C. ix.) 



438 PUBLICATIONS OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 

87. Ps3'clirometrical table : for determiuing- the elastic force of aqueous 
vapor, and the relative humidity of the atmosphere from indications of the 
wet and the dry bulb theoBometer, Fahrenheit. By James H. Coffin, A. M. 
1856. 8vo., pp. 20. (M. C. i.) 

88. Kesearches on the ammonia-cobalt bases. By Wolcott Gibbs and 
Frederick Aug. Genth. Accepted for publication, July, 1856. [December, 
1856.] 4to, pp. 72, 21 woodcuts. (S. C. ix.) 

89. North American Oology. By Thomas M. Brewer, M. D. Part I. — 
Eaptores and Fissirostres. Accepted for publication, February, 1856. [1857.] 
pp. 140, and 5 plates. (S. C. xi.) 

90. Illustrations of surface geology. By Professor Edward Hitchcock, 
LL.D. Accepted for publication, January, 1856. [April, 1857.] 4to., pp. 164, 
2 woodcuts and 12 plates. (S. C. ix.) 

91. Annual report of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution, 
showing the operations, expenditures, and condition of the Institution for the year 
1856, and the proceedings of the Board up to January 28, 1857. 34th Con- 
gress, 3d Session, House of Representatives, Mis. Doc. No. 55. 1857. 8vo., 
pp. 468 ; 69 woodcuts. 

92. Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge. Vol. IX. 1857. 4to., pp. 
482, and 22 plates. 

CONTENTS. 

(83.) Meech. Intensity of heat and light of sun upon diflferent latitudes. 
• (90. ) Hitchcock. Illustrations of surface geology. 
(86. ) Mayer. Mexican history and archaeology, and Zapotec remains. 
(88.) Gibbs and Genth. Researches on ammonia-cobalt bases. 
(79.) Runkle. New tables, planetary motion. 
(94.) Runkle. Asteroid supplement to new tables. 

93. Smithsonian meteorological observations for the year 1855. (Printed 

for examination by the observers.) 1857. 8vo., pp. 118. 

Printed merely to enable observers to verify their records, and distributed only to them. 
The same-material is embodied in No. J57 : " Results of Meteorological Observations," &c. 

94. Asteroid supplement to new tables for detei-mining the values of 
h'-l^ and its derivatives. By JohnD. Runkle. Accepted for publication Novem- 
ber, 1855. [May, 1857.] 4to., pp. 72. (S. C ix.) 

95. Nereis Boreali- Americana : or, contributions to the history of the marine 

algse of North America. Part III. — Chlorospermeae. By Professor William 

Henry Harvey, M. D. Accepted for publication, September, 1857. [March, 

1858.] 4to., pp. 142, and 14 plates, colored. (S. C. x.) 

The colored plates are to be found in the extra copies, most of the edition inserted in the 
series of contributions having plain plates. 

96. Nereis Boreali- Americana : or, contributions to a history of the marine 
alg« of North America. By Professor William Henry Harvey, M. D. In three 
parts, with 50 colored plates. May, 1858. • 4to., pp. 568. 

97. Magnetical observations in the Arctic Seas. By Elisha Kent Kane, 
M. D., U. S Navy. Made during the second Grinnell expedition in search 



PUBLICATIONS OF THE S^flTIISONIAN INSTITUTION. 439 

of Sir Jolm Franklin, in lS53-5i-55, at Van Ilcnsst'lacv Harbor, and olhor 
points on the west coast of Greenland. Iioduced and discussed by Cliarles 
A. Sebott, assistant United States Coast Survey. Accepted for publication May, 
1858. [1859.] 4to., pp. 72; one woodcut and two plates. (S. C. x.) 

98. Grammar and dictionary of tlie Yoruba language. With an introductory 
description of the country and people of Yoruba. 13y the Rev. T. J. Bowen, 
Missionary of the Southern Baptist Convention. Accepted for publication May, 
1858. [June, 1858.] 4to., pp. 232, and one map. (S. C. x.) 

9.9. Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge. Vol. X.* ]85S. 4to., pp. 
4G2, and 17 plates. 

CONTENTS. 

(95.) Harvey. Marine algre. Part III. Chlorospermese. 

(97.) Kaue. Magnetical observations in the Arctic seas. 

(98.) Bowen. Grammar and dictionary of the Yoruba language. 

1-00. An Account of the total eclipse of the sun on September 7, 1858, as 
observed near Olnios, Peru. By Lieutenant J. M. Gilliss. Accepted for pub- 
lication, January, 1859. [April, 1859.] 4to., pp. 22; 1 woodcut and 1 plate. 
(S.C. XI.) 

101. Map of the solar eclipse of Jilarch 15, 1858. By Rev. Thomas Hill, 
of Walthaui, Massachusetts. Published by the Smithsonian Institution for dis- 
tribution among its observers. January, 1858. 8vo., pp. 8, and one plate. 

102. Catalogue of the described diptera of North America. Prepared for the 
Smithsonian Institution by R. Osten Sacken. January, 1858. 8vo., pp. 112. 
[With supplement of four pages. October, 1859.] (M. C. ill.) 

103. Meteorological observations made at Providence, Rhode Island, extend- 
ing over aperiod of twenty-eight years and a half, from December, 1831, to May, 
1860. By Professor Alexis Caswell. Accepted for publication, August, 1859. 
[October, 1860.] 4to., pp. 188. (S. C. xii.) 

104. Meteorological observations in the Arctic Seas. By Elisha Kent Kane, 
M. D., U. S. Navy. Made during the second Grinnell expedition in search 
of Sir John Frankliii, in 1853, 1854, and 1855, at Van Rensselaer Harbor, and 
other points on the west coast of Greenland. Reduced and discussed by 
Charles, A. Scliott, assistant United States Coast Survey. Accepted for publi- 
cation May, 1858. [November, 1859.] 4to., pp. 120, 10 woodcuts. (S. C. xi.) 

105. Catalogue of North American mammals, chiefly in the museum of the 
Smithsonian Institution. By Spencer F. Baird. July, 1857. 4to., pp. 22. 

Reprinted from Vol. VIII of Pacific Railroad Report. 

106. Catalogue of North American birds, chiefl}' in the museum of the 
Smithsonian Institution. By Spencer F. Baird. October, 1858. 4lo., pp. 42. 

Reprinted from Vol. IX of Pacific Railroad Report. 

107. Annual report of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution, 
showing the operations, expenditures, and condition of the Institution f(U" the 
year 1857. 35th Congress, 1st Session, Senate Mis. Doc. No. 272. 1858. 
8vo., pp. 438 ; 100 woodcuts. 



440 PUBLICATIONS OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSPITUTION. 

108. Catalogue of North American birds, chiefly in the museum of the Smith 
sonian Institution. By Spencer Y. Baird. First octavo edition, 1859. Svo,^ 
pp. 24. {^l. C. II.) 

Of this work an edition has been printed for labelling, with one side of each leaf blank. 

109. Annual report of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution, 
showing the operations, expenditures, and condition of the Institution for the 
year 1858, 35th Congress, 2d Session, Senate Mis. Doc. No. 49. 1859, 8vo., 
pp. 448, 48 woodcuts. 

110. Annual report of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution, 
showing the operations, expenditures, and condition of the Institution for the 
year 1859. 3Gth Congress, 1st Session, House of Representatives, Mis. Doc. 
No. 90. 1860. 8vo., pp. 450; 55 woodcuts. 

111. Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge, Vol, XI, 1859, 4to,, 
pp, 506, and 23 plates, 

CONTENTS. 

(89.) Brewer. North American Oology. Part I. Raptores and Fissirostres. 
(100.) Giiliss. Total eclipse of the sun, September 7, 1858, in Peru, 
(113.) Bache. Magnetic and meteorological observations. Parti, 
(114.) Kane. Meteorological observations in the Arctic seas. 
(126.) Le Conte. Coleoptera of Kansas and Eastern New Mexico. 
(114.) Sonntag. Observations on terrestrial magnetism in Mexico, 
(127,) Loomis. On certain storms in Europe and America, December, 1836, 

112. Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge, Vol, XII, 1860, Pages 
540, 3 plates, and 12 w^oodcuts, 

CONTENTS, 

(129.) Kane. Astronomical observations in the Arctic seas, 

(119,) Whittlesey, Fluctuations of level in North American lakes. 

(103.) Caswell. Meteorological observations at Providence, Rhode Island, 28^ years. 

(131.) Smith. Meteorological observations near Washington, Arkansas, 20 years. 

(135.) Mitchell. Researches upon venom of the rattlesnake. 

113. Discussion of the magnetic and meteorological observations made at the 
Girard College observatory, Philadelphia, in 1840, 1841, 1842, 1843, 1844, and 
1845, Part I, Investigation of the eleven year period in the amplitude of 
the solar-diurnal variation and of the disturbances of the magnetic declination. 
By A, D, Bache, LL.D, Accepted for publication, June, 1859. [November, 
1859.] 4to., pp. 22, 5 woodcuts. (S. C. xii,) 

This paper forms Part I of Section 1 of the Discussion relating to the Declination. 

114. Observations on terrestrial magnetism in Mexico. Conducted imder the 
direction of Baron Von Miiller, with notes and illustrations of an examination 
of the V(jlcano Popocatapetl and its vicinity. By August Sonntag, Accepted 
for publication, May, 1859, [Pebruary, 1860. j 4to., pp, 92, 4 woodcuts, and 
one plate, (S, C. xi.) 

115. Extracts from the proceedings of the Board of Regents of the Smith- 
sonian Institution, in relation to the electro-magnetic telegraph. [1861.] 8vo., 
pp. 40, 7 woodcuts. [M. C, li.J 

Reprinted from Proceedings of the Board of Regents for 1657. 



PUBLICATIONS OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 441 

1 16. List of public libraries, institutions, and societies in the United States 
and British provinces of North America. (From " Manual of Libraries," etc., by 
William J. llhees.) 1859. Svo., pp. 84. 

117. Catalogue of publications of Societies and of other periodical woi'ks in 
the library of the Smithsoniau Institution, July 1, 1858. Foreign works. 

aS59. 8vo., pp. 264. (M. C. in.) 

118. Catalogue of the described lepidoptera of North America. Prepared 
for the Smithsonian Institution. By John G. Morris, May, 1860. 8vo., pp. 
76. (M. C. 111.) 

119. On fluctuations of level in the North American lakes. By Charles 
"Whittlesey. Accepted for publication, April, 1859. [July, ISGO.] 4to., pp. 
28, and 2 plates. (S. C. xn.) 

120. Results of meteorological observations made at Marietta, Ohio, between 
1826 and 1859, inclusive. By S. P. Hildreth, M. D.; to which are added results 
of observations taken at IMarietta, by Mr. Joseph Wood, between 1817 and 
1823. Iteduced and discussed at the expense of the Smithsonian Institution. 
By Charles A. Schott. Accepted for publication, June, 1867. [September, 
1867.] 4to., pp. 52, 14 woodcuts. 

121. Discussion of the magnetic and meteorological observations made at 
the Girard College Observatory, Philadelphia, in 1840, 1841, 1842, 1843, 1844, 
and 1845. Part II. — Investigation of the solar-diurnal variation in the mag- 
netic declination and its annual inequality. By A. D, Bache, LL.D. 
Accepted for publication, September, 1860. [June, 1862.] 4 to., pp. 28, 8 
woodcuts. (S. C. XIII.) 

122. Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections. 1862. Vol.1. 8vo., pp. 738. 

CONTENTS. 

(19.) (148.) Directions for meteorological observations. 

(87.) CofiBn. Psycbromctrical tables. 

(31 ) (J53.) Guyot. Meteorological and physical tables. 

123. Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections. 1862. Vol.11. 8vo., pp. 715. 

CONTENTS. 

(27.) Booth and Morfit. Recent improvements in chemical arts, 
(115.) Proceedings Board Regents in relation to the electro-magnetic telegraph. 

(53.) Stanley. Catalogue portraits Nortii American Indians. 
(108.) Baird. Catalogue of North American birds. 

(49.) Baird and Girard. Catalogue North American reptiles; Serpents. 
(128.) Check-list shells North America. 

(34.) Directions for collecting. 
(137.) Circular to officers Hudson Bay Company. 
(139.) Instructions lor collecting nests and eggs. 
(163.) North American grasshoppers. 
(176.) North American shells. 
(138.) Morgan. Circular respecting relationship. 



442 PUBLICATIONS OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 

124. Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections. Vol. III. 8vo., pp. 772. 

CONTENTS. 

(102.) Osten Sacken. Catalogue diptera North America. 
(118.) Morris. Catalogue described lepidoptera North America. 
(136.) Le Conte. Classification coleoptera. I. 
(117.) Catalogue publications of Societies in Smithsonian library. 

125. Smitlisonian Miscellaneous Collections. Vol. IV. 8vo., pp. 760. 

CONTENTS. 

(134.) Hagen. Synopsis of North American neuroptera. 
(133.) Morris. Synopsis of North American lepidoptera. 

126. The coleoptera of Kansas and Eastern New Mexico. By John L. 
Le Conte, M. D. Accepted for publication, October 1859. [December, 1859. J 
pp. 64 and 3 plates. (S. C. xi.) 

127. On certain storms in Europe and America, December, 1836. By Pro- 
fessor Elias Loomis, LL. D. Accepted for publication, August, 1859. [Feb- 
ruary, I860.] 4to., pp. 28, and 13 plates. (S. C. xi.) 

128. Check-lists of the shells of North America. Prepared for the Smith- 
sonian Institution, by Isaac Lea, P. P. Carpenter, Wm. Stimpson, W. G. Bin- 
ne}', and Temple Prime. June, 1860. 8vo., pp. 52. (M. C. ii.) 

An edition for labelling has been printed with one side of each leaf blank. 

129. Astronomical observations in the Arctic seas. By Elisha Kent Kane, 
M. D., U. S. N. Made during the second Grinnell expedition in search of 
Sir John Franklin, in 1853, 1854, and 1855, at Van Rensselaer Harbor, and 
other points in the vicinity of the northwest coast of Greenland. Reduced 
and discussed by Charles A. Schott, assistant United States Coast Survey. 
Accepted for publication, March, 1860. [May, I860.] 4to., pp. 56, 3 wood- 
cuts, and 1 plate. (S. C. sii.) 

130. Tidal observations in the Arctic seas. By Elisha Kent Kane, M. D., 
U. S. N. Made during the second Grinnell expedition in search of Sir John 
Franklin, in 1853, 1854, and 1855, at Van Rensselaer harbor: Reduced and 
discussed, by Charles A. Schott, assistant United States Coast Survey. Accepted 
for publication, July, 1860. [October, I860.] 4to., pp. 90, 3 woodcuts and 4 
plates. (S. C. XIII. '^ 

131. Meteorological observations made near Washington, Arkansas, extend- 
ing over a period of twenty years, from 1840 to 1859, inclusive. By Nathan D. 
Smith, M. D. Accepted for publication, January, 1860. [October, I860.] 4t6., 
pp. 96. (S. C. XII.) 

132. Discussion of the magnetic and meteorological observations made at the 
Girard College Observatory, Philadelphia, in 1840, 1841, 1842, 1843, 1844, and 
1845. Part III. — Investigation of the influence of the moon on the magnetic 
declination. By A. D. Bache, LL.D. Accepted for publication, September, 
1860. [June, 1862.] 4to., pp. 16, 3 woodcuts. (S. C. xiii.) 

133. Synopsis of the described lepidoptera of North America. Part I. — 
Diurnal and crepuscular lepidoptera. Compiled for the Smithsonian Institu- 



PUBLICATIONS OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 443 

tion by John G. Morris. February, 1SG2. 8vo,, pp. 386, and 30 woodcuts. 
(M. C. IV.) 

134. Synopsis of the neuroptcra of Nortli America. With a list of the South 
American species. Prepared for the Smithsonian Institution by Hermann Ilagen. 
July, 1861. 8vo., pp. 3G8. (M. C. iv.) 
.^ 135. Researches npon the venom of the rattlesnake: with an investigation 
of the anatomy and physiology of the organs concerned. By S. Weir Mitchell, 
M. D. Accepted for publication, July, 1860. [December, I860.] 4to., pp. 
156, and 12 woodcuts. 

136. Classification of the coleoptera of North America. Prepared for the 
Smithsonian Institution. 13y John L. Le Conte, M. D. 8vo., pp. 312, and 
49 woodcuts. (M. C. iii.) 

Pages 1 to 208, published May, 1861 ; 209 to 278, March. 1862. 

137. Cii'cular to ofHcers of the Hudson's Bay Company. 1860. 8vo., pp. 6. 

138. Circular in reference to the degrees of relationship among different 
nations, [By Lewis H. Morgan. January, I860.] 8vo., pp. 34. (M. 0. ii.) 

139. Instructions in reference to collecting nests and eggs of North Ameri- 
can birds, [January, I860.] 8vo, Pages 22, and 20 woodcuts. Circular in 
reference to collecting nests and eggs of North American birds. Svo. 12 pp. 
[Febmary, 1861.] (M. C. ii.) 

140. List of the coleoptera of North America. Prepared for the Smithsonian 
Institution. By John L. Le Conte, M.D. Part I. March, 1863. April, 
1866. 8vo., pp. 82. (M. C. vi.) 

141. Monographs of the diptera of North America. Prepared for the Smith- 
sonian Institution by II. Loew. Part I. Edited, with additions, by R. Osten 
Sacken. April, 1862. 8vo., pp. 246, with 15 woodcuts and 2 plates. (M. C. vi.) 

142. Bibliography of North American conchology, previous to the year 1860. 
Prepared for the Smithsonian Institution. By W. U. Binney; Part I. — 
Amei-ican Authors. March, 1863. 8vo., pp. 658. (M, C. v.) 

143. Land and fresh-water shells of North America. Part II. — Pulmonata 
Limnophila and Thalassophila. By W. G. Binney. September, 1865. 8vo., 
pp. 172, 261 woodcuts. (M. C. vii.) 

144. Land and fresh-water shells of North America. Part III. — Ampul- 
lariida?, Valvatidte, Viviparidte, fresh-water KissoicUe, Cycl(»phorida', Truiica- 
tellidaj, fresh-water Neritidae, HolicinidiB. By W. G. Binney. September, 
1865. 8vo., pp. 128, 232 woodcuts. (M, C. vil.) 

145. Monograph of American corbiculada), (recent and fossil.) Prepared 
for the Smithsonian Institution, By Temple Prime. December, 1865. 8vo., 
pp. 92, 86 woodcuts. (M. C. vii.) 

146. Meteorological observations in the Arctic seas. By Sir Francis Leopold 
M'Clintock, R. N. Made on board the Arctic searching yacht "Fox," in Bathn 
Bay and Prince Regent's Inlet, in 1857, 1858, and 1859. Reduced and dis- 
cussed, at the expense of the Smithsimian Institution, by Charles A. Schott, 



444 PUBLICATIONS OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 

assistant United States Coast Survey. Accepted for publication, April, 1861. 
[May, 18G2.] 4to., pp. 164, with 1 map and 14 woodcuts. (S. C. xiil.) 

147. Annual report of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution, 
showing the operations, expenditures, and condition of the Institution for the 
year 1860. 36th Congress, 2d Session. House of Representatives Mis. Doc. 
1861. 8vo., pp. 448, 73 woodcuts. 

148. Directions for meteorological obsen'ations, and the registry of period- 
ical phenomena. 1860. 8vo., pp. 72, 23 woodcuts. (M. C. 1.) 

149. Annual report of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution, 
showing the operations, expenditures, and condition of the Institution for the 
year 1861. 37th Congress, 2d Session, Mis. Doc. 1862. 8vo., pp. 464, 25 
woodcuts. 

150. Annual report of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution, 
showing the operations, expenditures, and condition of the Institution for the 
year 1862. 37th Congress, 3d Session, Mis. Doc. 1863. 8vo., pp. 446, 94 
woodcuts. 

151. Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge. Vol. XIII. 1863. 4to., 
pp. 558, 7 plates, 70 woodcuts. 

CONTENTS. 

(130,) Kane. Tidal observations, Arctic seas. 
(14G.) McClintock. Meteorological observations, Arctic seas. 
(155.) Whittlesey. Ancient mining shores of Lake Superior. 
(12L) Bache. Discussion, Girard College observations. Part II. 
(132.) Bache. Discussion, Girard College observations. Part III. 
(162.) Bache. Discussion, Girard College (5bservations. Parts IV, V, VI. 
(Ifi6.) Bache. Magnetic survey of Pennsylvania, &c. 

(16y.) Mitchell and Morehouse, researches upoa anatomy and physiology of 
Chelonia. 

152. Lectures on mollusca or " Shell-fish," and their allies. Prepared for 
the Smithsonian Institution. By Philip P. Carpenter, of Warrington, England. 
1861. 8vo., pp. 140. 

153. Tables, meteorological and physical, prepared for the Smithsonian 
Institution. By Arnold Guyot, P. D., LL.D. Third edition, revised and enlarged. 
1859. 8vo., pp. 638. (M. C. i.) 

154. List of foreign correspondents of the Smithsonian Institution. Cor- 
rected to January, 1862. May, 1862. 8vo., pp. 56. (M. C. v.) 

155. Ancient mining on the shores of Lake Superior. By Charles Whit- 
tlesey. Accepted for publication April, 1862. [April, 1863. J 4to., pp. 34, 1 
map, 21 woodcuts. (S. C. xiii.) 

156. Catalogue of minerals, with their formulas, etc. Prepared for the 
Smithsonian Institution by T. Egleston. June, 1863. 8vo., pp. 56. (M. C. vii.) 

157. Results of meteorological observations, made under the direction of the 
United States Patent Office and the Smithsonian Institution, from the year 1854 
to 1859, inclusive, being a report of the Commissioner of Patents made at the 
first session of the 36th Congress. Vol. I. 1861. 4to., pp. 1270. 

36th Congress, 1st Session, Senate Ex. Doc. 



PUBLICATIONS OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 445 

158. Siuithsonianiilisccllancous Collections. 18G4. Vol. V. Svo., pp. 774. 

CONTENTS. 

(142.) Binney. Bibliography of North American concliology. 

(74.) Catalogue of publications of the Smithsonian Institution to June, 1862. 
(154.) List of foreign correspondents of the Smithsonian Institution to January, 
J 862. 

159. Researches upon the anatomy and physiolocy of resphation in the 
Chelonia. By S. Weir Mitchell, M. D., and George R. Morehouse, M. D. 
Accepted for publication, March, 1863. April, 18G3. 4to.,pp. 50, 10 woodcuts. 
(S. C. XIII.) 

160. Instructions for research relative to the ethnology and philology of 
America. Prepared for the Smithsonian Institution. By George Gibbs. March, 
1863. 8vo., pp. 56. (M. C. vii.) 

161. A Dictionary of the chinook jargon, or trade language of Oregon. 
Prepared for the Smithsonian Institution. By George Gibbs. March, 1863. 
8vo , pp. 60. (M. C. VII.) 

162. Discussion of the magnetic and meteorological observations made at 
the Girard College Observatory, Philadelphia, in 1840, 1841, 1842, 1843, 1844, 
and 1845. Second section, comprising Parts IV, V, and VI. Horizontal 
force. Investigation of the eleven (or ten) year period and of the disturbances 
of the Horizontal component of the magnetic force, with an investigation of 
the solar-diurnal variation, and of the annual inequality of the horizontal 

(force, and of the lunar effect on the same. By A. D. Bache, LL.D., F. R. S. 
Accepted for publication, June, 1862. [November, 1862.] 4to., pp. 78, 11 
woodcuts. (S. C. XIII.) ^ 

163. Circular in reference to the history of North American grasshoppers. 
[January-, I860.] Pp. 4. (M. C. ii.) 

164. Smithsonian museum miscellanea. 1862. Pp. 88. 

CONTENTS. 

(1.) Abbreviations of names of States and Territories of North America, for 
labelling insects, shells, &c. 

(2.) A scries of small figures, from 1-1643. 

(3.) A scries of medium figures, from 1-2747. 

(4.) A series of largo figures, from 1-2599. 

(5.) Blank check-list of specimens. 

No. 5 consists of columns of figures from 1 to 1,000, and of two series, 25 and 50, 
to the 8vo. column. All these are stereotyped and printed with from one to 
eight columns on each page, with blank spaces of greater or less extent, as may 
be required. 

165. Monograph of the bats of North America. By II. Allen, I\r. D., assist- 
ant surgeon United States Army. June, 1864, 8vo., jip. 110, and 73 woodcuts. 
(M. C. VII.) 

166. Records and results of a magnetic survey of Pennsylvania and parts 
of adjacent States, in 1840 and 1841, with some additional records and results 
of 1834, 1835, 1843 and 1862, and a map. I^ A. D. Bache, LL.D., P. R. S. 



446 PUBLICATIONS OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION 

Accepted for publication, February, 1863. [October, 1863.] 4to., pp. 88, 1 map. 
(S. C. XIH.) 

167. Ne.w species of North American coleoptera. Prepared for tlie Smith- 
sonian Institution. By JohnL. LeConte,M. D. Parti. March, 1863. April, 
1866. 8vo., pp. 180. (M. C. Yi.) 

168. Circular relative to collections of birds from middle and South America. 
[December, 1863.] 8vo., pp. 2. 

169. Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections. Vol. VI. 8vo., pp. 888, 3 
woodcuts, 2 plates. 

CONTENTS. 

(141.) Loew. Monograph of diptera. Parti. 
(171.) Loew. Monograph of diptera. Part II. 
(140.) Le Conte. List of coleoptera of North America. 
(167.) Le Conte. New species of North American coleoptera. 

170. Comparative vocabulary. (Reprinted from Smithsonian instructions in 
ethnology and philology.) May, 1863. 4to., pp. 20. 

171. Monographs of the diptera of North America. Prepared for the Smith- 
sonian Institution. By H. Loew. Part II. Edited by R. Osten Sacken. 
January, 1864. 8vo., pp. 372, 5 plates. (M. C. vi.) 

172. Palaeontology of the upper Missouri; a report upon collections made 
principally by the expeditions under command of Lieutenant G. K. WaiTCn, 
United States topographical engineers, in 1855 and 1856. Invertebrates. By 
F. B. Meek and F. V. Hayden, M. D. Part I. Accepted for publication May 
1864. [April, 1865.] 4to., pp. 158, 5 plates, 31 woodcuts. (S. C. xiv.) .1 

173. The gray substance of file medulla oblongata and trapezium. By 
John Dean, M. D. Accepted for publication August, 1863. [February, 1864.] 
4to., pp. 80, 16 plates, 5 woodcuts. 

174. Bibliography of North American conchology previous to the year 1860. 
Prepared for the Smithsonian Institution. By W. G. Binney. Part II. 
Foreign authors. June, 1864. 8vo., pp. 302. 

175. Discussion of the magnetic and meteorological observations made at 
the Girard College observatory, Philadelphia, in 1840, 1841, 1842, 1843, 1844, 
and 1845. Third Section, comprising Parts VII, VIII, and IX. Vertical force. 
Investigation of the eleven (or ten) year period and of the disturbances of the 
vertical component of the magnetic force, and appendix on the magnetic eflfect 
of the aurora borealis ; with an investigation of the solar-diurnal variation, and 
of the annual inequality of the vertical force ; and of the lunar effect on the 
vertical force, the inclination, and total force. By A. D. Bache, LL.D., F. R. S. 
Accepted for publication August, 1863. [April, 1864.] 4to., pp. 72, 14 wood- 
cuts. (S. C. XIV.) 

176. Circular in reference to collecting North American shells. January, 
1860. pp. 4. (M. C. H.) 

177. Check-list of the invertebrate fossils of North America. Cretaceous 
and Jurassic. By F. B. Meek. April, 1864. 8vo., pp. 42. (M. C. vi.' ) 



PUBLICATIONS OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 447 

178. Circular to entomologists. ISGO. 8vo., pp. 2. 

179. Catalogue of publications of societies and of periodical works, belong- 
ing to the Smithsonian Institution, January 1, 1866. Deposited in the library 
of Congress. 1866. 8vo., pp. 596. 

180. On the construction of a silvered glass telescope, fifteen and a half inches 
in aperture, and its u.^e in celestial photography. By Henry Draper, 31. D. 
Accepted for publication, January, 1864. | Jnly, 1864.] 4to., pp., 60, 47 wood- 
cuts. (S. C. XIV.) 

181. Review of American birds, in the museum of the Smithsonian Institution. 
By S. F. Baird. Part I. — North and middle America. [June, 1864 — June, 
1866.] 8vo , pp. 454, 86 woodcuts. 

182. Results of meteorological observations made under the direction of the 
United States Patent Office and the Smithsonian Institution, from the year 
1854 to 1859, inclusive, being a report of the Commissioner of Patents made at 
the 1st Session of the 3Gth Congress. Vol.11. Part I. 36th Congress, 1st 
Session. Senate Ex. Doc. 1864. 4to., pp. 546. 

183. Check-list of the invertebrate fossils of North America. Miocene. 
By F. B. Meek. November, 1864. 8vo., pp. 34. (M. C. vii.) 

184. Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge. Vol.XIV. 1865. Pages 490, 
25 plates, 131 woodcuts. 

CONTENTS. 

(175.) Bache. Discussion Girard College observations. Parts VII, VIII, IX. 
(18G.) Baclic. Discussion Giravd College observations. Parts X, XI, XII. 
(180.) Draper. Construction of silvered glass telescope and its use in celestial pho- 
tography. 
(172.) Meek and Haydea. Palajontology of the Upper Missouri. 
(192.) Leidy. Cretaceous reptiles of the United States. 

185. List of the described birds of Mexico, Central America, and the West 
Indies not in the collection of the Smithsoniiin Institution. January 1. 1863. 
8vo., pp. 8. 

186. Discussi/)n of the magnetic and meteorological observations made at 
the Girard College observatory, Philadelphia, in 1840, 1841, 1842, 1843, 1844, 
and 1845. Fourth section, comprising Parts X, XI, and XII. Dip and total 
force; analysis of the disturbances of the dip and total force; discussion of the 
solar diurnal variation and annual ine(piality of the dip and total force; and dis- 
cussion of the absolute dip, with the final values for declination, dip and force 
between 1841 and 1845. By A. D. Bache, LL. D., F. R. S. Accei)ted for 
publication. May, 1864. [April, 1865.] 4to., pp. 42, 8 woodcuts. (S. C. xiv.) 

187. Annual report of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution, 
showing the operations, expcniditiu'es, and comlition of the Institution for tlio 
year 1863. 38th Congress, Lst Session. House of Re])reseutatives. Misc. Doc. 
No. 83. 1864. 8vo., pp. 420, 5G woodcuts. 

188. Aimual report of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution, 
showing the operations, expenditures, and condition of the institution for the 
year 1864. 1865. 8vo., pp. 450, 50 woodcuts. 



448 IPUBLICATIONS OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 

189. Catalogue of tbe orthoptera of Nortli America described previous to 
1867, Prepared for the Smithsonian Institution. By Samuel II. Scudder. 
October, 1868. 8vo., pp. 110. 

190. Queries relative to tornadoes. 8vo., pp. 4, 1 woodcut. 

191. Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections. Vol. VII. 8vo., pp. 878, 676 
woodcuts. 

CONTENTS. 

(165.) Allen. Monograph of bats of North America. 

(143.) Binney. Land and fresh-water shells of North America. Part II. 

(144.) Binney. Land and fresh-water shells of North America. Part III. 

(201.) Stimpson. Hydrobiinse. 

(145.) Prime. Monograph of American corbiculada3. 

(200.) Conrad. Check-list of fossils : eocene and oligocene. 

(183.) Meek. Check-list of fossils : miocene. 

(177.) Meek. Check-list of fossils, cretaceous and Jurassic. 

(156.) Egleston. Catalogue of minerals. 

(IGL) Gibbs. Dictionary of Chinook jargon. 

(160.) Gibbs. Instructions for etjnological and philological research. 

(203.) List of works published by the Smithsonian Institution to January, 1866. 

192. Cretaceous reptiles of the United States. By Professor Joseph Leidy, 
M. D. Accepted for publication, December, 1864. [May, 1865.] 4to., pp. 
142, 20 plates, 35 woodcuts. (S. C. xiv.) 

193. Duplicate shells collected by the United States exploring expedition 
under Captain C. Wilkes, United States Navy. 8vo., pp. 4. 

194. Land and fresh-water shells of North America. Part I. — Pulraonata 
geophila. By W. G. Binney and T. Bland. February, 1869. 8vo., pp. 328; 
woodcuts. 

195. Discussion of the magnetic and meteorological observations made at the 
Girard College observatory, Philadelphia, in 1840, 1841, 1842, 1843, 1844, and 
1845. Parts I to XII inclusive. 4to., pp. 262, 49 woodcuts. 

196. Physical observations in the Arctic seas. By Isaac I. Hayes, M. D., 
commanding expedition. Made on the west coast of north Greenland, the 
vicinity of Smith strait and the west side of Kennedy channel, during 1860 and 
1861. Reduced and discussed at the expense of the Smithsonian Institution. 
By Charles A. Schott. Accepted for publication, February, 1865. [.June, 1867.] 
4to., pp. 286, 15 woodcuts, and 6 plates. (S. C. xv.) [Contains astronomical, 
magnetic, tidal, and meteorological observations.] 

197. On the fresh-water glacial drift of the northwestern states. By 
Charles Whittlesey. Accepted for publication, June, 1864. [May, 1866.] 4to., 
pp. 38, 2 maps, and 11 woodcuts. (S. C. xv.) 

198. Physical observations in the Arctic seas. By Elisha Kent Kane, M. 
D., United States Navy. Made during the second Grinnell expedition in search 
of Sir John Franklin, in 1853, 1854, and 1855, at Van Rensselaer harbor and 
other points on the west coast of Greenland. Reduced and discussed fin- the 
Smithsonian Institution. By Charles A. Schott. Part I.— Magnetism. II.— 



PUBLICATIONS OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION 449 

Meteorolog)\ III. — Astronomy. IV. — Tides. 18.59-'60. 4to., pp. 340, 7 
plates, 17 woodcuts. 
This consists of Nos. 97, 104, 129, 130, united into ono volume with new title page. 

199. An investigation of the orbit of Neptune, with general tables of its 
motion. By Simon Newcomb, Professor of mathematics, United States navy. 
Accepted for publication, May, 1865. [January, 1866.] 4to., pp. 116. (S. C. 

XY.) 

200. Chock-list of tho invertebrate fossils of North America, eocene and 
oligocene. By T. A. Conrad. May, 1866. Svo., pp. 46. (M. C. vii.) 

201. Researches upon the Hydrobiinse and allied forms ; chiefly made upon 
materials in the museum of the Smithsonian Institution. By Dr. William Stimp- 
son. ' August, 1865. Svo., pp. 64, 29 woodcuts. (M. C. vii.) 

202. Geological researches in China, Mongolia, and Japan, during the years 
1862 to 1865. By Raphael Pumpelly. Accepted for publication, January, 
1866. [August, 1866.] 4to., pp. 173, 9 plates, and 18 woodcuts. (S. C. xv.) 

203. List of works published by the Smithsonian Institution. January, 1866. 
8vo., pp. 12. (M. C. VII.) 

204. Results of meteorological observations made at Brunswick, Maine, 
between 1807 and 1859. By Parker Cleaveland, L.L.D. Reduced and dis- 
cussed at the expense of the Smithsonian Institution, by Charles A. Schott. 
Accepted for publication, December, 1866. [May, 1867.] 4to., pp. 60, 8 wood- 
cuts. 

205. Circular relating to collections in archaeology and ethnology. [January, 
1867.] 8vo., pp. 2. 

206. Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge. Vol. XV. 1867. pp. 620, 
17 plates, and 43 woodcuts. 

CONTENTS. 

(199.) Newcomb. Orbirt of Neptune. 

(197.) Whittlesey. Frcsh-wator glacial drift of Northwestern States. 
(202.) Pumpelly. Geological researches in China, Mongolia, and Japan. 
('19G.) Hayes. Physical observations in the Arctic seas. 

207. Suggestions relative to objects of scientific investigation in Russian 
America. [May, 1867.] 8vo., pp. 10. 

208. On the Gliddon mummy case in the museum of tho Smithsonian Insti- 
tution. By Charles Pickering. 4to., pp. 6, 1 plate. [June, 1869.] 

209. Annual report of tho Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution, 
showing the operations, expenditures, and condition of tho Institution for the 
year 1865. 1866. Svo., pp. 496, 137 woodcuts. 

210. AiTangement of families of birds. Adopted provisionally by the Smith- 
sonian Institution. June, 1866. Svo., pp. 8. 

211. Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge. Vol. XVI. (Not printed.) 

212. Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections. Vol. VIII. (Not printed.) 

213. Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections. Vol. IX. (Not printed.) 

29 s 



450 PUBLICATIONS OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 

214. Annual report of tlie Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution, 
showing the operations, expenditures, and condition of the Institution for the 
year 1866. 39th Congress, 2d Session. House of Representatives, Mis. Doc. 
No. 83. 1867. Svo., pp. 470, 70 woodcuts. 

215. Annual report of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution, 
showing the operations, expenditures, and condition of the Institution for the 
year 1867. 40th Congress, 2d Session. Senate, Mis. Doc. No. 86, 1868. 
8vo., pp. 506, 10 woodcuts. 

216. Photographic portraits of North American Indians in the gallery of the 
Smithsonian Institution. (Not printed.) 

217. Letter in reference to the meteoric shower of November 13, 1867. [By 
M. Hoek, Utrecht, September 26, 1867.] pp. 4, 2 woodcuts. 

218. Systems of consanguinity and affinity of the human family. By 
Lewis H. Morgan. Accepted for publication, 1868. 4to. (In press.) 

219. Monographs of the diptera of North America. Part IV. Prepared for 
the Smithsonian Institution by R. Osten Sacken. January, 1869. 8vo., pp. 
358, 4 plates, and 7 woodcuts. 

220. The Indians of Cape Flattery, at the entrance to the Straits of Fuca, 
Washington Territory. By James G. Swan. (In press.) 

221. The orbit and phenomena of a meteoric fire-ball, seen July 20, 1860. 
By Professor James H. Coffin, L.L. D. Accepted for publication, July, 1868. 
[May, 1869.] 4to., pp. 56 ; 2 plates, 2 woodcuts. 

222. Tables and results of the precipitation in rain and snow in the United 
States, and at some stations in adjacent parts of North America, and in Central 
and South America. Collected by the Smithsonian Institution and discussed 
under direction of Professor Joseph Henry, Secretary. By Charles A. Schott. 
(In press.) 

223. On the transatlantic longitude. By Benjamin Apthorp Gould. (In 
press. ) 

224. Annual report of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution, 
showing the operations, expenditures, and condition of the Institution for the 
year 1868. Svo. 1869. 

225. List of foreign correspondents of the Smithsonian Institution. July, 
1869. (In press.) 

226. List of publications of the Smithsonian Institution. July, 1869. (In 
press.) 



SYSTEMATIC LIST OF TITLES OF SMITHSONIAN PUBLICATIONS. 



The figures and letters refer to tho number of the publication in the preceding list. 



Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge, 4to., vol. I. 
" " 4to., vol. II. 



2 

26 
38 
39 
55 
56 
76 
78 
92 
99 



Miscellaneous Collections, 8vo. 
Bvo. 
Bvo. 



8vo., vol. V 

8vo., vol. VI 

8vo, vol.. VII 

8vo., vol. VIII 

8vo., vol. IX 

Annual Keport Smithsonian Institution (1st) for 1846 
" " {2d) for J 847 



4to., vol. Ill 

4to., vol. IV 

4to., vol. V 

4to., vol. VI 

4to., vol. VII 

4to., vol. VIII 

4to., vol. IX 

4to., vol. X 

4to., vol. XI Ill 

4to., vol. XII J 12 

4to., vol. XIII 151 

4to.,vol. XIV 184 

4to., vol. XV 206 

4to., vol. XVI 211 

vol. 1 122 

vol. II 123 

vol. Ill 124 

8vo., vol. IV 125 

158 

109 

191 

212 

213 



First of bound series . 



G 
H 
I 

21 

28 
51 
57 
67 



(3d) for 1848. 

(4th) for 1849. 

(5th) for 1850. 

((ith) for 1851. 

(7tli) for 1852. 

(fSlii) for 1853. 

(Uth) for 1854 75 

(Idtin for 1855 77 

(lltb) for 1856 91 

(12th) for 1857. 107 

(13tli) for 1858 109 

(14th) for 1859 110 

(15th) for 1860 147 

(KJtli) fur 1861 149 

(17th) for 1862 150 

(18ih) for 1863 187 

(19th) for 18i;4 188 

(20tli) for 1865 209 

(21st) for 1866 214 

(22d) for 1867 215 

(2;id) for 1868 224 



ANATOMY AND PHYSIOLOGY. 

Dean, medulla oblongata 173 

.ToNKS, chomieal and pliysiological investigations 82 

Lf,m>v, flora and fauna living animals 44 

MiTciiKl.I,, vfMioni of rattlesnake i;?5 

MiTciiKi.i, and MoKKiiousE, chelonia 159 

WvMAN, raua pipiens 45 



452 TITLES OF SMITHSONIAN PUBLICATIONS. 

ARCHITECTURE. 

Owen, hints public architecture 



ASTRONOMY. 

Annular eclipse 1854 66 

Davis, flood tide 33 

DowNES, occultations 1848 8 

1849 9 

1850 10 

" " 1851 11 

1852 29 

" " 1853 54 

GiLLiss, solar eclipse, Peru 100 

Gould, history of Neptune = 18 

" transatlantic longitude 223 

Hayes, arctic observations 196 

Hill, map solar eclipse 101 

Kane, astronomical observations arctic seas 129 

" tidal obsei-yations arctic seas 130 

Nevvcomb, orbit of Neptune 199 

Eunkle, planetary tables "- 79 

" planetary tables, supplement 94 

Walker, researches Neptune 3 

" ephemeris Neptune, 1848 4 

1795-1849 5 

1850 6 

" 1851 7 

" " 1852 24 

Whittlesey, level of lakes -. 119 

BOTANY. 

Gray, Plantse Wrightianse, 1 22 

' II 42 

Harvey, North American marine algse, I - • 32 

" II 43 

" " " III 95 

" " " complete 96 

ToRREY, batis maritima 60 

" Darlingtonia Californica - - - 61 

" Plantse Fremontianse 46 

Register periodical phenomena - 65 

bibliography. 

BiNNEY, bibliography conchology, part 1 144 

" bibliography conchology, part' II 172 

GiRARD, bibliography natural history, 1851 48 

Jewett, catalogue system 47 

" public libraries - 2d 

List of publications Smithsonian Institution 74,203,226 

' ' of Smithsonian exchanges, part 1 73 

" of Smithsonian exchanges, part II 85 

" of Smithsonian exchanges to 1858 - H7 

Publications learned societies in library Smithsonian Institution, 1866 179 

Ehees, public libraries 116 

CHEMISTRY AND TECHNOLOGY. 

Booth and Morfit, chemical arts 27 

GiBBS and Genth, ammonia-cobalt bases 88 

Hare, explosiveness of nitre 17 

ethnology and philology. 

BoWEN, Yoruba grammar and dictionary 98 

Circular, archaeology - - 205 



TITLES OF SMITHSONIAN PUBLICATIONS. 453 

GiBBS, Chinook jargfon 161 

" comparative vocabulary 170 

" etlinolo<;ical instructions 160 

Haven, American ardia^olopy 71 

L API! AM, antiquities Wisconsin 70 

LiElJER, vocal sounds Laura Bridgeman 12 

Maykr, Mexican archa^oloiry 80 

Mitchell, vocabulary of jargon 08 

MoiUJAX. relationship circular 133 

" systems of consanp^uinity 21H 

Photographic portraits of Indians 216 

Pickering, Giiddon numnny case 208 

KiGGS, D:.kota grammar and dictionary 40 

Sql'IEU and Davis, ancient monuments, Mississippi valley 1 

Sqcier, aboriginal monuments, New York 15 

Stanley, Indian portraits 53 

Swan, Indians of Cape Flattery 220 

Whittlesey, ancient mining, Lake Superior 155 

" ancient works, Ohio 37 

GEOLOGY AND PHYSICAL GEOGRAPHY. 

Ellet, physical geography, Mississippi valley 13 

Hitchcock, surface geology 90 

Pr.MPELLY, geology, China, Mongolia and Japan 2U2 

Whittlesey, glacial drift 197 

GENERAL NATURAL HISTORY. 

Circular for collecting birds 168 

" for collecting eggs - 139 

" for collecting grasshoppers 163 

' ' for collecting shells 176 

" to entomologists 178 

Directions for collecting and preserving specimens 34 

Hudson's bay circular 137 

Leiuy, flora and fauna within animals 44 

Museum miscellanea, numbers, labels, &c 104 

Kegister, periodical phenomena - 05 

Russian America, circular 207 

Stimpson, marine iavertebrata, Grand Manaa , 50 

GENERAL PHYSICS OF THE GLOBE. 

Hayes, physical observations, arctic seas 196 

Kane, physical observations, arctic seas 198 

MATHEMATICS. 

Alvord, tangencies of circles 80 

METEOROLOGY. 

Ca.swell, observations. Providence, Rhode Island 103 

Chappelsmith, tornado 59 

Circular, tornadoes 190 

Clka V ELAND, observations, Brunswick, Maine 204 

Coi'EiN, meteoric fire-ball 221 

" psychrometrical tables 87 

" winds, northern hemisphere 52 

Directions for meteorological observations 10, 148 

Force, record of auroras 84 

GUVOT, meteorological directions 19 

" meteorological tables 31, 153 

Hayes, arctic observations I'.'O 

llil-DRETH, observations, Marietta, Ohio 120 

Kane, arctic olj.servations 104 

Loo.Mis, storms 127 

M( L'l.iN TOCK, arctic observations 146 

Meech, intensity sun's heat 83 



454 TITLES OF SMITHSONIAN PUBLICATIONS. 

Meteorological results, 1854-59, vol. 1 157 

" " " vol.2 182 

Meterological observations, 1855 93 

November meteors 217 

Olmsted, aurora 81 

SCHOTT, precipitation in rain and snow in the United States 222 

Smtth, observations, Washington, Arkansas 131 

Whittlesey, level of lakes 119 

RHCROSCOPY. 

Bailey, microscopic observations, southern States 23 

" new microscopic, organisms 63 

" soundings, coast survey 20 

Dean, medulla oblongata 173 

Jones, chemical and physiological investigations 82 

Leidy, flora and fauna, living animals 44 

MINERALOGY. 

Egleston, catalogue minerals 156 

MISCELLANEOUS. 

Address, corner stone D 

Correspondence Squier and Davis K 

Digest of act of Congress relative to Smithsonian Institution C 

Exposition, Smithson's bequest E 

Hudson's bay circular 137 

List, domestic institutions 69 

" foreign institutions 64, 154,225 

Proceedings, regents, 1846 A 

Programme of organization J 

Registry, periodical phenomena 65 

Eeport committee, organization . IJ, L 

Russian America, circular 207 

PALjEONTOLOGY. 

CoNRAD, eocene fossils 200 

GiBBES, mosasaurus 14 

Leidy, ancient fauna, Nebraska 58 

" cretaceous reptiles 192 

' ' extinct sloths 72 

" fossil ox 41 

Meek, cretaceous and Jurassic fossils 179 

" miocene fossils 183 

Meek and Hayuen, palaeontology, Nebraska 172 

PHYSICS. 

Draper, telescope in photography 180 

Gould, transatlantic longitude 223 

Henry, electro-magnetic telegraph » 115 

Secchi, electrical rheometry 36 

TERRESTRIAL MAGNETISM. 

Bache, magnetic discussion, part 1 113 

partll 121 

partlll 132 

" " partsIVtoVI - 162 

" " " parts Vllto IX 175 

" " " parts IXtoXII 186 

" " " complete 195 

Bache, magnetic survey of Pennsylvania 166 

Gould, transatlantic longitude -■ 223 

Hayes, arctic observations 1Q6 

Kane, arctic observations 97 

Locke, terrestrial magnetism. United States 35 

Sonntag, terrestrial magnetism, Mexico - 114 



TITLES OF SMITHSONIAN PUBLICATIONS. 455 

ZOOLOGY. 
Birds. 

Baird, ananp^cment of binls 210 

" catalogue, birds 4to ]0G 

' ' catalogue, birds 8vo ] (J8 

" review of birds, part I Idl 

Circular, birds of South America ] 80 

BULWER, Nortli Arucricaii zoology, part 1 89 

Desiderata of birds of Mexico, Central America, etc 185 

Fishes. 

GiRARD, monograph, cottoids 30 

Insects, 

Agassiz, classification of insects 10 

Coleoptera, Le Conte, list 140 

" " classification liJG 

" " Kansas 120 

" , " new species 107 

" Melsheimer, catalogue (ri 

Diptera, LCEW, monograph, part 1 141 

" " monograph, part II 171 

" OsTEX Sacken, monograph, part IV 219 

" " catalogue* 102 

Lepidoptera , MoRRIS, catalogue 118 

" " synopsis 133 

Neuroptera, Hagen, synopsis 134 

Orthoptera, Sc UDDER, catalogue 189 

Mammals. 

Allen, monograph, North American bats 105 

Baiud, catalogue mammals, 4to 105 

Reptiles. 

Baird and Girard, catalogue of serpents 49 

Mitchell and Morehouse, chelonia 159 

Shells. 

BiNNEY, land and fresh water shells, part I 194 

" " " partll 143 

" '« " partlll 144 

BiNNEY, bibliography North American conchology, part 1 142 

" " " partll 174 

Carpenter, lectures 6n mollusca 152 

Check listof shells 128 

Circular for collecting shells 17(5 

Duplicate shells, exploring expedition 193 

PRLME, corbicnladii; 145 

SrLVU'soN hydrobiiuDc 201 



ALPHABETICAL INDEX 



TO LIST OF THE 



PUBLICATIONS OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 



The reference figures and letters refer to the numbers of the publications in the preceding list. 



Aboriginal monuments, N. Y 15 

Acts of Congress, digest C 

Address, G.M.Dallas, corner-stone D 

Affinity, systems of 218 

Agassiz, classification insects 16 

AlgfB, Harvey 32, 43, 95, 9(5 

Allen, monograph bats ]65 

Alvord, tangencies 80 

American Antiquarian Society 70 

American Board of Commissioners for 

Foreign Missions 40 

Ammonia, cobalt bases, Gibbs & Genth 88 

Ampborosteus 14 

Ampullariidoe 144 

Anatomy of Rana pipiens 45 

Ancient fauna, Nebraska, Leidy. 58 

Ancient mining. Lake Superior 155 

Ancient monuments, Mississippi valley. 2 

Ancient works, Ohio 37 

Antiquities Wisconsin. Lapham 70 

Antiquity, vestiges of 71 

Appendix, Force, auroras 84 

Appendix, publications of societies 73,85 

Archaeology, circular 205 

ArcbjEology, Mexican, Mayer 86 

Archaeology of United States, Haven .. 71 

Architecture, Owen on P 

Arctic meteorology 104, 198 

Arctic observations..-.- 97, 104, 1.30, 196, 198 

Arctic tides 130, 198 

A rkansas, meteorology 131 

Arrangement of birds 210 

Asteroid supplement, Ruukle's tables.. 94 
Astronomical observations, Arctic seas. 129 

196,198 

Astronomical tables, Ruukle 79, 94 

Aurora borealis, magnetic effect of 175 

Aurora borealis, Olmsted 81 

Auroras, Force, record of 84 

Bache, magnetic discussion 113, 

121,132,162,175,186,195 
Bache, magnetic survey, Pennsylvania. 166 
Baffin bay, meteorological observations. 146 
Bailey, microscopic observations, south- 
ern States 23 

Bailey, new microscopic organisms 63 

Bailey, soundings Coast Survey 20 

Baird, catalogue birds 106, 108 

Baird, catalogue mammals 105 

Baird, review of birds, part 1 181 

Baird and Girard, catalogue of serpents 49 

Baptist convention 98 

Buses, ammouiu-cobalt 88 



Batis maritima, Torrey 60 

Bats, Allen, monograph 165 

Bibliography, conchology, Binney..]42, 174 

Bibliography natural history 48 

Bibliography public libraries 25,116 

Binncy, bibliographj', conchology .. 142, 174 

Binney, check list, shells 128 

Binney, land and fresh-water shells, 

parti 194 

Binney, land and fresh-water shells, 

part 2 143 

Binney, land and fresh-water shells, 

part 3 144 

Birds, arrangement of 210 

Birds, Baird, catalogue 106, 108 

Birds, Baird, review 181 

Birds, circular for collecting 168 

Birds' nests and eggs, collecting 139 

Birds of Mexico, Central America, and 

West Indies 185 

Booth and Morfit, chemical arts 27 

Bowen, Yoruba grammar and dictionary 98 

Brewer, N. A. , Oology, part 1 89 

Bridgeman, Laura, Lieber 12 

Brunswick, meteorological observations 204 

Building materials P 

Building, views and plans of P 

Carpenter, check list, shells 128 

Caipenter, mollusca 152 

Caswell, meteorological observations, 

Providence 103 

Catalogue, birds 106, 108 

Catalogue, coleoptera 62 

Catalogue, diptera 102 

Catalogue, Indians 53,216 

Catalogue, lepidoptera 118 

Catalogue, mammals 105 

Catalogue, minerals 156 

Catalogue, orthoptera 189 

Catalogue, publications of Smithsonian 

Institution 74, 203, 226 

Catalogue, publications in library.. 117, 179 

Catalogue, serpents 49 

Catalogue, system for libraries 47 

Celestial photography 180 

Central America, list of birds of 185 

Chappelsmith, tornado 59 

Check list, fossils 177, 183, 200 

Check list, shells 128 

Chelonia, Mitchell and Morehouse 159. 

Chelonia, remains of _ 58 

Chemical arts. Booth and Morfit 27 

Chemical investigations, Jones 82 



INDEX TO SMITHSONIAN PUBLICATIONS. 



457 



China, geology, Pumpclly 2(12 

Chinook jiiigou, Gibljs Jtil 

Clilorospeimi-a', Harvey !.•'> 

Circles, tangencies ot" HO 

Circular, archasology 20.') 

Circular, birds KiH 

Circular, eggs I'.iO 

Circular, entomology 178 

Circular, ethnology 205 

Circular, grasshoppers 1()3 

Circular, Hudson's bay 137 

Circular, meteors 217 

Circular, nests I'.IO 

Circular, sliells 17G 

Circular, systems, relationship )3S 

Circular, tornadoes J90 

Cleaveland, meteorological observations, 

Brunswick, Maine 204 

Coffin, meteoric fire-ball 22 1 

Coffin, psychrometrical tables 87 

Coffin, winds, northern hemisphere 52 

Coleoptcra, Le Conte, classificiUion 13fi 

Cokdptera, Le Conte, Kansas 12G 

Coleoptcra, Le Conte, list 140 

Coleoptera, Le Conte, new species 167 

Coleoptera, Melsheimer, catalogue 62 

Collecting, see Circulars and Natural 
History. 

Comparative vocabulary 170 

Conchology, Binney, bibliography.. 142, 174 

Congress, acts uf B. C. N. O., 67 

Congress library, catalogue of publica- 
tions deposited in 179 

Conosaunis . 14 

Conrad, check list, fossils, eocene 200 

Consanguinity, systems of 218 

Contributions to knowledge 2, 26, 

38, 39, 55, 56, 76, 78, 92, 99, 
111, 112, 151, 184, 206, 211 

Corbiculadae, Prime 145 

Corner-stone, address D 

Correspondence, Squier and Davis, 

memoir K 

Correspondents, domestic 69 

Correspondents, foreign , . 64, 154, 225 

Cottoids, Girard 30 

Cretaceous fossils, Meek 177 

Cretaceous reptiles, Leidy 192 

Cyclophoridce J 4 I 

Dakota dictionary 40 

Dakota grammar 40 

Dallas, address, corner-stone D 

Darlingtonia Calitbrnica, Torrey 61 

Davis and Sfpiier, correspondence rela- 
ting to memoir K 

Davis, flood-l ide 3:5 

Dean, medulla oblongata 173 

Dictionary Chinook jargon 161 

Dictionary Dakota language 40 

Dictionary Yoruba language 98 

Digest of acts of Congress C 

Diptera, Loew, monograph 141, J7I 

Diptera, Osten Sacken, catalogue 102 

Diptera, Osten Sacken, monograph... 141, 

171,219 

Directions, colU cring specimens 34 

Dnections, meteorological observations. 148 

Domestic institutions, list of 69 

Downes, occnllatious 8, 9, K', 11, 29, 54 

Draper, telesco|)e in photography 180 

Drift, Whittlesey 197 



Duplicate shells of United States explor- 
ing expedition 193 

Eclipse 100, JOI, 66 

Eggs, circular 139 

Eggs, instructions for collecting 139 

Egleston. catalogue minerals 156 

Electrical rheometry, Secchi 36 

Electro-magnetic telegraph 115 

ICleven-year period, Bache 113, 162, 175 

Ellet, Pnysical Geogr. Miss, valley 13 

Embryology 16 

Entomologists, circular to 178 

Eocene fossils, Conrad 200 

Ethnology, circular 205 

Ethmilogy, instructions relative to 160 

Exchanges, list of. Part 1 — 73 

Exchanges, list of. Part 2 85 

Exchanges, list of, to 1858 117 

Exploring expedition, duplicate shells -. 193 

Explosion of nitre 17 

Fauna and flora, Leidy 44 

Fire-ball, Coffin 221 

Fishes, Girard on cottoid 30 

Fissirostres, Brewer 89 

Flood-tide, Davis — 33 

Flora and fauna, Leidy 44 

Force, record of auroras 84 

Foreign correspondents, list of ..64, 154,225 

Fossil ox, Leidy 41 

Fossils, check list, Conrad 200 

Fossils, check list, Meek 177, 183 

Franklin, Sir John 97, 104, 129, 198 

Fremont, plants 46 

Fox, meteorological observations 146 

Genth and Gibbs, ammonia-cobalt bases 88 
Geology, China and Japan, Pumpelly.. 202 

Geology, Hitchcock 90 

Gibbes, mosasaurus 14 

Gibbsand Genth, ammonia-cobalt bases. 88 

Gibbs, Chinook jargon 161 

Gibbs, ethnological instructions 160 

Gilliss, solar eclipse, Peru 100 

Girard, Bibliography Nat, Hist 48 

Girard, cottoids 30 

Girard and Baird, catalogue, serpents.. 49 

Girard College, observations 113, 

121, 132, 162, 175, 186, 195 

Glacial drift, Whittlesey 197 

Gliddon mummy-case, Pickering 208 

Gould, Neptune 18 

Gould, transatlantic longitude 223 

Grammar, Dakota language 40 

Grammar, Yoruba language 98 

Grasshopper, circular 163 

Gray, Planta', Wrightiana; 22, 42 

(jray substance of miidulla oblongata . . 173 
Greenland. vSce Kane and Iluyos. 
Grinnell expedition.... 97,104,129,130,198 

Guyot, meteorological directions 19,148 

Gu|7ot, meteorological and physical 

tables 31,153 

Hagen, synopsis neuroptera 134 

1 laldcmau, colenptcra 62 

Hare, explosiveness of nitre 17 

Harvey, Algio, part I 32 

Harvey. Alga', part II 43 

I Fai vey, Alga>, part III 95 

Harvey, Algai, complete 96 

Haven, archaeology 71 

Hayden and Meek, paL-eontology upper 
Missouri 172 



458 



INDEX TO SMITHSONIAN PUBLICATIONS. 



Hayes, Arctic observations 196 

Heat and light of the sun, Meech 83 

Helicinidae 144 

Henry, Professor, exposition of Smith- 
son's bequest E 

Henry, Professor, magnetic telegraph.. 115 
Henry, Professor. See reports. 
Hildreth, meteorological observations, 

Marietta 120 

Hill, solar eclipse 101 

Historical Society of Minnesota 40 

History, Mexican 86 

History, North American grasshoppers. . 163 

Hitchcock, surface geology 90 

Hoek, meteoric shower 2)7 

Holcodus 14 

Hudson's bay, circular 1 37 

Humidity of atmosphere, table 87 

Hydrobiinse, Stimpson 201 

Indian photographs 216 

Indian portrait gallery, Stanley 53 

Indians, Makah, of Cape Flattery 220 

Insects, Agassiz .classitication i6 

Institutions, list of domestic 69 

Institutions, list of foreign 64, 154, 225 

Instructions collecting nests and eggs.. 139 

Japan, geology, Pumpelly 202 

Jargon, Chinook 161 

Jargon, Mitchell 68 

Jewett, catalogue system 47 

Jewett, public libraries 25 

Jones, chemical and physical investiga- 
tions 82 

Jurassic fossils. Meek 177 

Kane, astronomical observations 129 

Kane, magnetic observations, Arctic seas 97 
Kane, meteorological observations, Arc- 
tic seas 104 

Kane, physical observations (complete). 198 

Kane, tidal observations 130 

Kansas, Le Conte, coleoptera 126 

Kennedy channel, Hayes's observations. 196 

Labels for collections 164 

Lake Superior, ancient mining 155 

Language. See Dakota, Yoruba,Chinook. 

Lapham, antiquities, Wisconsin 70 

Lea, check list shells 128 

Le Conte, catalogue coleoptera 62 

Le Conte, classitication coleoptera, I 136 

Le Conte, coleoptera, Kansas 126 

Le Conte, list coleoptera 140 

Le Conte, new species coleoptera, I 167 

Leidy, ancient fauna, Nebraska 58 

Leidy, cretaceous reptiles 192 

Leidy, extinct sloths 72 

Leidy, fauna and flora 44 

Leidy, fossil ox 41 

Lepidoptera, Morris's catalogue 118 

Lepidoptera, Morris, synopsis 133 

Letter in reference to meteoric shower of 

November 217 

Level of lakes, Whittlesey 119 

Libraries, Jewett, account of 25 

Libraries, Rhees, list of 116 

Library of Congress, catalogue of publi- 
cations deposited in 179 

Library of Smithsonian Institution, cata- 
logue of 117 

Library, publications of learned societies 
in 73 



Lieber, vocal sounds, Laura Bridgeman. 12 

Light and heat of the sun, Meech 83 

List of birds, Mexico, &c 185 

List, coleoptera 14(J 

List of domestic institutions 69 

List of exchanges 73, 85, 1 17 

List of foreign mstitutions 64, 154,225 

List of public libraries 25, 1 16 

List of publications Smithsonian Institu- 
tion 74.20-3,226 

List of shells 193 

Locke, terrestrial magnetism 35 

Loew, monograph diptera 141, 171 

Longitude, transatlantic, Gould 223 

Loomis, storms 127 

Maguetic eil'ect of aurora borealis 175 

Magnetic diucussion, Bache.. 113,121,132, 
162, 175, 186, 195 
Magnetic observations, Arctic seas. . 97, 196 
Magnetic observations, Mexico, Sonn tag. 1 14 
Magnetic survey, Pennsylvania, Bache. 166 

Magnetism, Locke 35 

Maine, meteorological observations, 

Brunswick 204 

Makah Indians, Swan 220 

Mammalia, remains of 58 

Mammals, Baird, catalogue 105 

Marietta, Hildretb, meteorological obser- 
vations 120 

Marine algse, Harvey 95, 96 

Marine invertebrata, Grand Manan, 

Stimpson 50 

Mauvaises Terres, Nebraska 58 

Mayer, Mexican history and arcbseology. 86 
McClintock, meteorological observations, 

Arctic seas 146 

Meech, intensity sun's heat 83 

Medulla oblongata, Dean 173 

Meek, check-list fossils, cretaceous 177 

Meek, check-list fossils, miocene 183 

Meek and Hayden, pakcontology, upper 

Missouri 172 

Melsheimer, catalogue, coleoptera 62 

Meteoric fire-ball. Coffin 221 

Meteorological directions 19,148 

Meteorological observations, 1854-'59, 

vol. 1 157 

Meteorological observations, 1854-'59, 

vol. 2.... 182 

Meteorological observations, 1855 93 

Meteorological observations, Arctic seas, 

Hayes 196 

Meteorological observations, Arctic seas, 

Kane 104 

Meteorological observations, Arctic seas, 

McClintock 146 

Meteorological observations, Brunswick, 

Maine, Cleaveland 204 

Meteorological observations, Marietta, 

Hildreth 120 

Meteorological observations, Providence, 

Caswell 103 

Meteorological observations, Washing- 
ton, Arkansas, Smith 131 

Meteorological tables 31, 153 

Meteors, November 217 

Mexican history and archjEology, Mayer. 86 

Mexico, list of birds of 185 

Microscopy, Bailey 20,23,63 

Middle Ajnerica, birds from 168 



INDEX TO SMITHSONIAN PUBLICATIONS. 



459 



Minerals, Ep^leston, catalog^ue 156 | 

Miuiiig^ ancient, Whittlesey 155 

Minnesota, Historical Society of 40 | 

Miocene fossils, Meek 183 l 

Miscellanea, museum 104 '• 

Mississippi valley, ancient monuments ' 

of 1 

Missions, American Board of 40 

Mitchell and Moreliouse, chelonia 159 

Mitchell, venom, rattlesnake l;55 

Mitchell, vocabulary of jargon 68 

Mollusca, Carpenter's lectures 15'i 

Monpoiia, geology, Pumpelly 2U'2 

Monograph bats 165 

Monograph, diptera 141,171,219 

Monograph, corbiculada? 145 

Moon, magnetic effect of 132, 102, 175 

Morehouse and Mitchell, chelonia 159 

Morfit and Booth, chemical arts 27 

Morgan, systems of relationship .. . 138,218 

Jlorris, catalogue lepidoptera 118 

Morris, synopsis lepidoptera 133 

Mosasaurus, Gibbes 14 

MuUer, magnetism in Mexico 114 

Mummy case, Pickering 208 

Museum, catalogue of birds in 100, 108 

Museum, catalogue of mammals in 105 

Museum, list of birds not in 185 

Museum, miscellanea 164 

JIuseum, review of birds in • 181 

Natural liistory, bibliography 48 

Natural history, directions 34 

Nautical Almanac 10, 11, 29, 54 

Navy, Secretary of 66 

Nebraska, ancient fauna, Leidy 58 

Nebraska, palaeontology. Meek and 

Ilayden 172 

Neptune, ephemeris J 4, 5, 6, 7, 24 

Neptune, history of discovery, Gould... 18 

Neptune, o''bit of, Newcomb 199 

Neptune, researches. Walker 3 

Nereis-Boreali-Americana, Harvey... 95,96 

Neritidse 144 

Nests, instructions for collecting 1 39 

Nests, circular 139 

Neuroptera, Hagen, synopsis 134 

Newcomb, Neptune 199 

New Mexico, Le Conte, coleoptora 126 

Nitre, explosiveuess of, Hare 17 

November meteors 217 

Occultations, Downes 8,9, 10, 11,29,54 

Of^cers and regents N 

Oligocenc, fossils, Conrad 200 

Olmsted, aurora borealis ^ 

Oology, Brewer 89 

Orbit of Neptune, Newcomb 199 

Oregon, trade language of 68, 161 

Ortlioptera, Scudder 189 

Osteu Sacken, catalogue diptera 102 

Osten Sacken, moiiog. diptera. . 141, 17 1, 219 

Owen, hints on public architecture 2 

Ox, extinct, Leidy 41 

I'aia-ontology of the upper Missouri, 

Meek and Haj'den 172 

Patent Office, meteorological observa- 
tions, lf-54 U) 1859 1.57, 182 

Periodical phenomena, directions for reg- 
istry 65, 148 

Periodicals in library of Smithsonian In- 
6tituti)n 73,85, 117, 179 



Peru, eclipse of sun, Gilliss 100 

Philology, instructions relative to 160 

Plionetic language 12 

Photographs of Indians 216 

Photography, use of telescope, Draper. . 180 

Physical geography, Ellet 13 

Physical observations, Haj'es 196 

Physical observations, Kane 198 

Physical tables 31, 153 

Physiological investigations, Jones 82 

Pickering, mummy case 208 

PlautaB Frcmontianse, Torrey 46 

Plantae Wrightianie, Gray 22, 42 

Plants. See Torrey. Gray. 

Popocatapetl, observations of 114 

Precipitation of rain and snow in U. S. . 222 

Prime, check list shells 128 

Prime, monograph corbiculadse 145 

Prince Eegent's inlet, meteorological 

observations 146 

Proceedings of regents. See reports .. . A 

Programme of organization FJ 

Providence, meteorological obsei-vations 103 

Psychrometrical tables. Coffin 87 

Publications in Smithsonian library.. 73, 85, 

117,179 
Publications of Smithsonian Institution, 

catalogue of 74, 203, 226 

Pulmonata geophila, Binney 194 

Pumpelly, geology of China and Japan 202 

Queries relative to tornadoes 190 

Rainfall in United States 222 

Rana pipieus, Mitchell 45 

Raptores, Brewer 89 

Rattlesnake, Mitchell's researches 135 

Records and results of magnetic survey, 

Pennsylvania 166 

Regents, journal of proceedings A 

Regents. See reports. 

Relationship, systems of, Morgan 218 

Relationship, circular, Morgan 138 

Registry, periodical phenomena 65, 148 

Report of committee on organization B L 

Report of regents, 1st (1846) G 

Report of regents, 2d (1847) H 

Report of regents, 3d (1848) I 

Report of regents, 4th (1849) 21 

Report of regents, 5th. ..(1850) 28 

Report of regents, 6th... (1851) 51 

Report of regents, 7th . . . ( 1 852) 57 

Report of regents, 8th... (1853) 67 

Report of regents, 9th. ..(1854) 75 

Report of regents, 10th ...(1855) 77 

Report of regents, 1 1 th . . . ( 1856) 91 

Report of regents, 12th ...(1857) 107 

Report of regents, 13th ...(18.58) 109 

Report of regents, 14th ...(1859) 110 

Report of regents, 15th ...(1800) 147 

■Report of regents, 16th ...(I8()l) 149 

Report of regents, 17th ...(1862) 150 

Report of regents, 18th ...(1863) 187 

Report of regents, 19th ...(1864) 188 

Report of regents, 2llth ...(1865) 209 

Report of regents, 21st ...(1806) 214 

Report of regents, 22d (1867) 215 

Report of regents, 23d (1868) 224 

Report of regents on telegraph 115 

Report of the secretary F 

Rej)ort of tht^ secretary. See report of regents. 
Reports up to January, 1849 M 



4G0 



INDEX TO SMITHSONIAN PUBLICATIONS. 



Eeptiles, catalogue of 49 

Ei'ptiles, cretaceous, Leidy 192 

Researches, respiration iu chelonia 159 

Researches upon hydrobiinse 201 

Respiiation in chelonia 159 

Results of magnetic observatious, Penn- 
sylvania 166 

Results of meteorological observations, 

1854 to 1859 157,182 

Review of birds. Baira 118 

Rhees, list of American libraries 116 

Rheometry, electrical, Secchi 36 

Rhode Island, meteorology 103 

Rhodospermese 43 

Riggs, Dakota grammar and dictionary 40 

Rivers, improvement of 13 

Rissoidse 144 

Runkle, asteroid tables 94 

Runkle, planetary tables 79,94 

Russian American circular 207 

Sawkin's drawings of Mitla 86 

Schott, rainfall in United States 222 

Schott, reductions, meteorology, &c 97 

104, 129, 130, 103, 120, 131, 104, 146, 196, 
198,204,222 

Scudder, catalogue of orthoptera 189 

Secchi, rheometry 36 

Shell circular 176 

Shell fish. Carpenter's lectures 152 

Shells, Binney, bibliography 142 

Shells, check list 128 

Shells, exploring expedition 193 

Shells, land and fresh-water, Binney.. .194, 

143, 144 
Shells, pulmonata, limnophila, thalas 

sophila 143 

Sloth, extinct, Leidy 72 

Smith, meteorological observations, 

Washington, Ark 131 

Smithson's bequest, exposition E 

Smith strait, Hayes's observations 196 

Societies, publications of, in Smithsonian 

library 73,85. 179 

Souutag, magnetic observations, Mexico. 114 
Soundings, miscroscopical examinations. 20 

South America, birds from 1 68 

Southern Baptist convention 98 

Spheres, tangencies of 80 

Squier, aboriginal monuments. New 

York 15 

Squier and Davis, ancient monuments .. 2 
Squier and Davis, corresi)ondence rela- 
tive to memoir K 

Stanley, Indian portrait gallery 53 

Stimpson, check list shells 128 

Stimpson, hydrobiinse 201 

Stimpson, marine invertebrata, Grand 

Manan 50, 

Storms, Loomis 127 



Suggestions relative to investigations in 

Russian America 207 

Sun, eclipse, Gilliss 100 

Sun, eclipse, Hill 101 

Sun, heat and light, Meech 83 

Swan, Makah Indians 220 

Synopsis, neuroptera 134 

Synopsis, lepidoptera 133 

Tables, asteroid, Runkle 94 

Tables, meteorological, Guyot 31,153 

Tables, physical 31, 153 

Tables, planetary, Runkle 79,94 

Table, psychrometrical 87 

Tangencies, Alvord 80 

Telegraph, report of regents on 115 

Telescope, Draper 180 

Terrestrial magnetism , Locke 35 

Thermometer, wet and dry bulb 87 

Tidal observations, Hayes 196 

Tidal observations, Kane 130 

Tidal observations, Whittlesey 119 

Tide, law of deposit of flood, Davis 33 

Tornado, Chappelsmith 59 

Tornadoes, queries relative to 190 

Torrey , batis maritima 60 

Torrey, Darlingtonia Californica 61 

Torrey, Plantse FremontinaB 46 

Trade language of Oregon 161 

Transatlantic longitude, Gould 223 

Trapezium, Dean 173 

Truncatellidfe 144 

Turner, W. W. , vocabulary'of jargon. . . 68 

ValvatidiB 144 

Van Rensselaer harbor, observations. 97, 104, 
129, 130, 146, 198 

Venom of rattlesnake 135 

Vertebrata, Jones, investigations 82 

Viviparida) 144 

Vocabulary, comparative 170 

Volcano, Popocatapetl 114 

Walker, Neptune 3,4,5,6,7,24 

Warren, collections palaeontology 172 

Washington, Ark. , meteorology 131 

West Indies, list of birds of 185 

Whittlesey, ancient mining 155 

Whittlesey, ancient works, Ohio 37 

Whittlesey, fluctuations level of lakes.. 119 

Whittlesey, glacial drift 197 

Wilkes, exploring expedition, shells 193 

Will of Smithson B,67 

Winds, Coffin 52 

Wood meteorological observations. Mari- 
etta 120 

\Vorks, list of, published by Smithsonian 

Institution 203 

Wright, Charles, plants 22, 42 

Wy man, Rana pipiens 45 

Yoruba grammar and dictionary, Bowen 98 
Zapotec remains 86 



CONTENTS. 



KEPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

Page. 

Eesolutions of Congress ordering report to be printed 2 

Letter of the Secretary to Congress 3 

Letter of the Cliancellor and Secretary, submitting report for 1868 4 

Officers and Regents of the Institution 5 

Members, ex ujjirio, and honorary members of the Institution 6 

Programme of organization . 7 

Keport of the Secretary, Professor Henry, for 1868 12 

Report of the Assistant Secretary, Professor Baird, for 1863 54 

Entries in record books of museum, 1866, 1867 and 1868 54 

Distribution of duplicate specimens, to end of 1868 54 

iVdditions to the rollections during 1868 55 

Statistics of Smithsonian literary and scientific exchanges 60 

Packages received for foreign distribution 61 

Packages received for home distribution 63 

List of Smithsonian meteorological stations and observers in North America and adja- 
cent islands, from 1849 up to the end of the year 1863 68 

Alphabetical list of meteorological observers of the Smithsonian Institution up to the 

end of the year 1863 86 

Meteorological material contributed in addition to the regular observations, during 

the year 1863 102 

Report of the executive committee 108 

Journal of proceedings of the Board of Regents Ill 

GENERAL APPENDIX. 

Memoir of Cuvier, by M. Flourens 121 

History of the works of Cuvier, by M. Flourens J41 

Memoir of Oersted, by Elie de Beaumont 166 

Notice of Christian Frederic Schoenbein, the discoverer of Ozono 185 

Appendix to notice of Schoenbein, by Professor Henry 189 

Memoir of Enckc, by G. Hagen 193 

Memoir of Eaton Hodgkinson, by Robert Ravvson 203 

Recent progress in relation to the theory of heat, by A. Cazin 231 

Principles of the mechanical theory of heat, by Dr. John Muller 245 

Continuous vibratory movement of all matter, ponderable and imponderable, by L. 

Magrini 281 

Radiation, by John Tyndall 292 

Synthetic experiments relative to meteorites, approximations to which these experiments 

lead, by M. Daubriie 312 

Catalogue of meteorites in the mineralogical collection of Yale College 342 

Observations on the electric resonance of mountains, by Henry do Saussure 345 

Experiments on aneroid barometers made at the Kew Observatory, by B. Stewart 350 

Anniversary Address of the President of the Royal Society of Victoria, by R. L. J 

Eilery 354 

Keport on the transactions of the Society of Physics and Natural History of Geneva, 

from June, 1867, to June, 1863, by Professor ElitS Wartmann 364 

History of the transactions of the Anthropological Society of Paris, from 1865 to 1867, 

by M.Paul Broca 376 

Drilling in stone without metal. By Chus. Rau 398 



462 CONTENTS. 

Page. 

A deposit of agricultural flint implements in southern Illinois. By Chas. Rati - 401 

Notice of the Blackmore Museum, Salisbury, England 408 

Programme of the Holland Society of Sciences of Harlem, 1869 414 

Proerammeof the Imperial Academy of Sciences, Belles Lettres, and Arts,of Bordeaux. 419 
A brief account of the processes employed in the assay of gold and silver coins at the 

mint of the United States. From the annual report of James Pollock, director.... 422 
A statement of foreign gold and silver coins, prepared by the director of the mint, to 

accompany his annual report 426 

List of publications of the Smithsonian Institution up to end of 1868, with systematic 

and alphabetical index............ ..*. 429 



LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS. 



MEMOIR OP HODGKINSON. 

Page. 

Trans. Strain and strenpjth of metals, Fig. 1 209 

Trans, strain and strength of metals, Fig. 2 209 

Trans, strain and strength of metals. Fig. 3 214 

Trans, strain and strength of metals, Fig. 4 214 

Trans, strain and strength of metals. Fig. 5 226 

PRINCIPLES OF THE MECHANICAL THEORY OF HEAT. 

Development of heat by mechanical means. Fig. 1 245 

Development of heat by mechanical means, Fig. 2 246 

Mechanical equivalent of heat, Fig. 3 249 

Mechanical equivalent of heat, Fig. 4 249 

Mechanical equivalent of heat, Fig. 5 251 

Mechanical eeiuivalent of heat, Fig. 6 252 

Mechanical equivalent of heat. Fig. 8 253 

Elements of the mechanical theory of heat, Y'lg. 9 260 

Application of the mechanical theory of heat to aqueous vapors, Fig. 10 263 

Application of the mechanical theory of heat to aqueous vapors, Fig. 11 266 

Action of saturated steam under expansion. Fig. 12 271 

Melting of ice. Fig. 13 273 

Melting of ice. Fig. 14.... 273 

Melting of ice. Fig. 15 273 

Melting of ice, Fig. 16 274 

Melting of ice, Fig. 17 274 

Melting of ice. Fig. 18 274 

Radiation, (one cut) 299 

Drilling in stone without metal, Fig. 1 ; 393 

Drilling in stone without metal, Fig. 2 393 

Drilling in stone without metal. Fig. 3 393 

Drilling in stone without metal. Fig. 4 394 

Drilling in stone witiiout metal, Fig. 5 395 

Drilling in stone without metal. Fig. 395 

Drilling in stone without metal. Fig. 7 396 

Drilling in stone without metal. Fig. 8 397 

Drilling in stone without metal. Fig. 9 398 

Drilling in stone without metal, I<"'ig. 10 399 

Drilling in stone without metal. Fig. 11 399 

Ancient stone axes 400 

Agricultural flint implements in southern Illinois, Fig. 1 401 

Agricultural flint implements in southern Illinois, Fig. 2 401 ■ 

Agricultural flint implements in southern Illinois, (plan of locality) 403 

Agricultural flint implements in southern Illinois, Fig. 3 404 

Agricultural flint implements in southern Illinois, Fig. 4 405 



INDEX. 



Page. 

Abbot, General. Barometrical cun-es from 49 

Accounts. Examiuation of 110 

Acknowledgments for books on education for Belgian government 39 

for books on war for Norwegian government 39 

Acknowledgments. See explorations, museum, exchanges, and investigations. 

Address of Ellery, Royal Society of Victoria - 354 

Agassiz, Professor L. Explorations under direction of 22 

Agassiz, Professor L. Re-election as Regent by Senate Ill 

Agriculture, Commissioner of. Estimate of yield of wheat 46 

Department of New building ^)2 

Transfer of iierbarium to 14 

Agricultural flint implements in Southern Illinois 401 

Alaska. Account of Ball's explorations in 23 

Albuquerque, Mr. Birds from * 2G 

Alphabetical list of Smithsonian publications 45& 

American Oriental Society. Examination of Morgan's work 20 

Ames, James T. Ethnological collection from 28. 

Amherst College. Ethnological collections from 23 

Andrus, Mr. Ethnological collections from 28 

Aneroid barometers. Experiments on at Kew 350 

Anthropological Society of Paris. Transactions from 1865-1867 376 

study and investigation 33 

Alphabetical list of meteorological observers 86 

Appendix. General, to report 11& 

Appropriations for 1869 IIC^ 

Archa;ology. Drilling in stone 392 

ArchjEological explorations * 26 

Arctic America. Explorations in 22 

Materials for work on., 20 

Arctic physical observations. I. I. Hayes 17 

Army Medical Museum. Transfer of crania to 15 

Art gallery founded by W. W. Corcoran, Esq. 45 

Assay of gold and silver coins at United States mint 426 

Baird, Professor. Arrangement of ethnological collections .• 35 

Explorations by 28 

Explorations by 32. 

Investigations by 39 

Bannister, H. M. Aid rendered by 36 

Barometer. Account of Hough's self-registering 48 

Barometers, aneroid. Experiments on 350 

Belden, Lieutenant. Collections from 30 

Belgian government. Books on education procured for 39 

Biuncy, \V. G. Land and fresh-water .shulls, America 20 

Bischoff, J. Exploration by, Alaska 24 

fBishop of London on duty of man of science 33 

Blackmore Mu.seum. Notice of 408 

Blackmore, William. Account of ethnological mnseum of 26 

Acknowledgments to 27 

Blake, Charlfs. Collections from 29 

30 s 



466 INDEX. 

Page. 

Blake, Charles. Ethnological collections from 28 

Bland, Thomas. Land and fresh-water shells, America 20 

Boardman, Mr. Collections from 29 

Books. Account of more valuable, received in 1 868 43 

Added to library during 1868 42 

Bordeaux. Programme of Imperial Academy of Science 419 

Boston Society of Natural History. Aid rendered Mr. Dall 23 

Explorations aided by 22 

Insects assigned to JO 

Bowen, S. J. Acts of, as Regent H ] 

Brevoort, J. C. Salamander from ' 35 

Brewer, Doctor T. M. Aid rendered by , 3.j 

Broca, Paul. Transactions of Anthropological Society of Paris 3?G 

Brush, George J. Catalogue of meteorites 342 

Bryan, O. N. Collections from - 29 

Bryant, Mrs. Henry. Ethnological collections from 28 

Building. Arrangement of rooms in 34 

Defects in 34 

Bulwer, Sir Henry. Aid rendered exchanges by , 40 

Burr, Fearing. Ethnological collections from 28 

California. Collections from 24 

Calleja, Mr. Explorations 25 

Canal. Report of General R. Delafield and executive committee on 1 1 1 

A Stygian pool 532 

Canfield, Dr. Nests and eggs from 24 

Capron, Hon. Horace. Co-operation of 40 

Catalogue of meteorites in Yale College 342 

Orthoptera. S. H. Scudder 18 

Caverns. Explorations of ^- 

Cazin, A. Recent progress in relation to heat '^>>' 

Cesnola, Mr. Discovery of antiquities in Cyprus 31 

Chase, S. P. ' Report submitted to Congress 4 

Chicago Academy of Sciences. Co-operation with 21 

Chicago Academy. Dall's exploration aided by 23 

Chicago Academy of Science. Explorations aided by 22 

Chief Justice. ■ Valuable .services of ^'"^ 

Climate. Importance of knowledge of 46 

Coast Survey. Co-operation witli ■* ^ ^* 

Coffin, Prof. J. H. Account of meteoric fire ball 20 

Discussion of winds r-, 4) 

Coffin, Prof. J. H. C. Co-operation of 40 

Coins. Assay of, at United States Mint 422 

Value of 426 

Weight, fineness and value of 426 

Collaborators. References made to ■^^ 

Cole, Levi. Ethnological collections from 28 

Collections. Additions to in 1868 o-J 

in natural history. Account of 22 

Congress. Memorial to - ■' "^ 

Library of — exchanges 40 

Library of, present condition of 41 

Consanguinity. Systems of. L.H.Morgan 1^ 

Contributions to knowledge. Account of ^7 

Cooper, Dr. J. G. On birds of California ^'^ 



INDEX. 467 

Page. 

Co-operation — not monopoly. Policy of the Institution 14 

with Institution, by dcptirtments and individuals 40 

with other institutions, &c ]G 

Corcoran, W. W. Foundation of Gallery of Art 45 

Correspondence. Nature and extent of 51 

Crania. Transferred to Army Medical Museum 15 

Cuvier. History of works of, by Floureus 141 

Memoir of, by Flourens 121 

Cyprus. Discovery of antiquities in 31 

Dali, W. II. Account of explorations by 23 

Aid rendered by 35 

Aid rendered by 36 

Daubrio. Synthetic experiments relative to meteorites 312 

Davidson, George. Explorations, Alaska 24 

Davis, Dr. E. H. Archaeological collection of 27 

Davis, Hon. Garret. Acts of, as Eegent Ill 

Dayton, E. A. Explorations and collections by 29 

Dean, John. Microscopical investigations, medulla oblongata 19 

Do Beaumont, Elic. Memoir of Oersted 166 

Delafield, Gen. Eichard. Acts of, as Regent Ill 

Report of committee on " the canal " Ill 

Report of executive committee 108, 118 

Report of executive committee 108 

Department of Agriculture. New building of 52 

De Saussure. Electric resonance of mountains 345 

Destruges, M. Specimens from 26 

Devercux, J. H. Valuable ethnological collection from 29 

Diptera. Monograph of R. Osten Sacken 18 

Distribution of duplicate specimens 36 

of duplicate specimens to end of 1863 54 

Distribution of packages of exchanges 61 

Donations of books inJ863 42 

Donations to collections and museum in 1868 55 

Dow, Captain J. M. Ancient pottery, &c., from 31 

Specimens from 25 

Drift, fresh-water glacial. C. Whittlesey 17 

Drilling in stone without metal 392 

Eaton, Prof. Examination of botanical collections 24 

Education. Books on, procured for Belgian government 39 

Edwards, W. H. Collections from 29 

Electric resonance of mountains. De Saussure 345 

Ellery, R. L. J. Address of. President Royal Society of Victoria 354 

Encke. Memoir of, by G. Hagen 193 

Engineer Department, United States army. Co-operation with 16 

Entomological Society of Philadelpliia. Insects assigned to 16 

Essex Institute. Explorations by 32 

Etliiioiogical collections. Arrangement of 35 

Ethnology. Explorations and collections in 26 

Specimens of, received from Army Medical Museum 15 

Transactions of Anthropological Society of Paris 376 

Exchanges. Account of system 3d 

Acknowledgments for aid rendered to 39 

Aid rendered to, by steam and railroad companies 39 

Freedom of, from duties, &c 40 



468 INDEX 

Pago. 

Exchange of duplicate specimens 36 

Exchange of public documents with foreign nations 40 

Exchanges. Statistics of, 1868 60 

Executive committee. Report for 1868 108 

Statement of finances 13 

Vacancy filled in 118 

Expenditures and receipts during 1863 108 

Explorations and collections in natural history. Account of 22 

Results of, in Arctic America 21 

Fessenden, Hon. W. P. Acts of, as Regent Ill 

Finances. Report on 108 

Fire-ball. Account of 49 

J. H. Coffin.-... 20 

Flourens. History of works of Cuvier 141 

Memoir of Cuvier 121 

Foreign coins. Value of 426 

Foreign distribution of packages for parties in America 63 

Foreman, Dr. E. Aid rendered by 35 

Arrangement of ethnological collections 35 

Forman, S. Collections from 29 

Funds of the Institution. Present condition 13, 14 

Gallery of art. Founded by Mr. Corcoran 45 

Garfield, Hon. J. A. Acts of, as Regent Ill 

Garfield, General J. A. Presentation of memorial to Congress 13 

Gaudet, C. P. Collections from 30 

Geneva. Society of Physics and Natural History, transactions 364 

Geological researches in China, Mongolia, and Japan. R. Pumpelly 17 

Gill, Theodore. Services and investigations 44 

Gold coins. Assay of, at United States mint •. 422 

Weight, fineness, and value of 426 

Grant, Captain E. M. Remarkable stone idol 29 

Gray, Dr. Asa. Botanical services 14 

Gray, Dr. C. C. Collections from '. 30 

Grayson, Colonel. Exploration of Northwestern Mexico 25 

Green, Prof. William Henry. Examination of Morgan's work 20 

Gregory, J. J. H. Ethnological collections from 28 

Grounds. Description of, and needed improvements 51 

Gunn, Donald. Contributions from 23 

Hadley, Prof. Report on Morgan's work 20 

Hagen, G. Memoir of Encke 193 

Hague, Henry. Specimens from '26 

Haley, Mr. Collections from 29 

Hamilton, J. Collections from 29 

Hardisty, Mr. Collections from 30 

Harlem. Holland Society of Sciences 414 

Hayden, Dr. F. V. Explorations by 25 

Hayes, Isaac I. Physical observations in Arctic seas 17 

Heat, mechanical theory of. Dr. Job. MuUer 245 

Heat, recent progress in theory of. A. Caziu 231 

Henry, Prof. Acts of, as Secretary Ill 

Henry, Prof. J. Daily movements of Bunker Hill Monument, etc 287 

Experiments on aneroids 353 

Investigations by, in 1868 38 

Letter submitting report to Congress 3, 4 



INDEX. 469 

Page. 

Henrj, Piof. J. On discoveries of Scliocnbein 1S9 

On gravitation 2&i 

On sun's parallax ]97 

Spherical fonn of planets and globule of oil 234 

Statical electrical repulsion 290 

Three kinds of telegraph 178 

Transfer of energy 2415 

Herbarium. Transfer of, to Department of" Agriculture 14 

Hildreth, S. P. Meteorological observations at Marietta, Ohio 18 

History of the works of Cuvier, by Flourens 141 

History of transactions of Anthropological Society of Paris 370 

Hitchcock, Prof. Ethnological collections from 2S 

Hitz, Dr. Exploration of Upper Missouri 25 

Hodgkinson, Eaton. Memoir of, by E. Eawson 203 

Holland Society of Sciences. Prize questions 414 

Hollis, Mr. Collections from 29 

Hough, G. W. Self-registering barometer. Account of 48 

Howard, Captain. Explorations, Alaska 24 

Howell, Robt. Collections from 29 

Hudson's Bay Company officers. Observations by 21 

Hudson, W. II. Birds from 26 

Imnan, Thos. Ancient faith, embodied in ancient names 27 

Indians of Cape Flattery. J. G. Swan 20 

Indians, systems of relationship among 19 

Insane, government asylum for. Living animals sent to 3C 

Insects, assigned to collaborators 16 

Investigations during the year 18G8 38 

Jenks, J. W. P. Ethnological collections from 28 

Jewett, Colonel E. Collecdons from 29 

Jones, Strachan. Collections from 30 

Journal of proceedings of Board of Regents Ill 

K. Ober-Berg-Amt. Minerals and rocks from 35 

Keim, Geo. M. Collections from 29 

Kentucky University. Aid to Sumichrast's exploration 25 

Explorations aided by 22 

Kew Observatory. Experiments on aneroid barometers 350 

King, Clarence. Exploration of 40th parallel 24 

Kirkby, Rev. W. W. Collections from 30 

Lacustrian lemains 27 

Land OfBcc. Explorations under 25 

Latimer, Geo. A . Stone implements from 31 

Latimer, Geo. Specimens from 26 

Library. Additions to during 1868 42 

Condition of 41 

Library of Congress. Account of 41 

Light-house Board. Co-operation with 16 

Investigations of : 33 

List of publications of the Institution to July, 1869 429 

Living animals received in 1868 and transferred to Insane Asylum 36 

Lockhart, Jas. Contributions from 23 

Loew. Monograph of diptera 18 

Lyon, S. S. Exploration of mounds 26 

Macfarlane, R. Valuable contributions from 22 

Maclean, Dr. John. Acts of, as Regent Ill 



470 INDEX. 

Page. 

Maclean, Rev. D.John. Appointed on Executive Committee 118 

McCulloch, Hon. Hugh. Co-operation of 40 

McDougal, Mr. Contributions from 2"2 

Mcllvaine, Eev. J. H. Examination of Morgan's work 20 

Magrini, L. Vibratory movement of all matter 281 

Manuscripts of England. Account of -. . . . 4:] 

Maps added to library during 1863 42 

Marietta, Ohio. Meteorological observations. Hildreth 18 

Matter. Vibratory movement of. Magrini 281 

Matthews, Dr. Collections from 30 

Medical department of United States army. Transfer of crania to 15 

Medulla oblongata. Dr. John Dean ]() 

Meek, F. B. Aid rendered by 35 

Meigs, General M. C. Co-operation of 40 

Members, ex officio of the Institution (5 

Memoir of Cuvicr 121 

Encke ]93 

Hodgkinson 203 

Oersted IGG 

Schoenbein ] 85 

Rfemorial to Congress 13 

Meteoric fire-ball. Account of, paper on 49 

J. H. Coffin 20 

Meteorites. Catalogue of, in Yale College 342 

Synthetic experiments relative to, by Daubr6e 312 

Meteorological material contributed in 1868 102 

observations. Marietta, Ohio. Hildreth 18 

stations and observers to end of 1868 68 

Meteorology. Account of operations in 45 

Micliler, General. Plans for improvement of grounds 52 

Microscopical investigations. Dr. John Dean 19 

Mills, Captain. Collections from 30 

Minor, Dr. T. T. Explorations. Alaska 24 

Mint. Processes employed in assay of gold and silver 422 

Miscellaneous collections. Account of .'. 17 

Mooro, C. E. Collections from 29 

Morgan, Lewis H. Systems of relationship 10 

Mounds. Exploration of . 26 

Mountains. Electric resonance. De Saussure 345 

Muller, Dr. Job. Mechanical theory of heat 245 

Mummy case. Dr. Ch. Pickering 20 

JIuseum. Additions to in 1868 55 

Appropriation by Congress for 34 

Army Medical. Transfer of crania to 15 

Blackmore. Notice of 408 

Museum and care of specimens. Account of 34 

Entries in record-books, 1 866-'67-'63 54 

Museums, foreign. Applications made to, for specimens ■- 36 

Museum of comparative zoology of Cambridge 22 

Memorial to Congress relative to 13 

Number of donations to, in 1 858 34 

National Academy of Sciences, investigations of 33 

National manuscripts of England. Account of • - • 43 

Natural History. Transactions of Geneva Society of - 354 



INDEX. 471 

Page. 

Nautical Almanac. Co-operation with ^ 16 

Navy Department. Orders from, to procure antiquities 31 

Neptune, orbit of. By S. Newcomb 17 

Newcomb, S. Orbit of Neptuuo 17 

Norway, {government of. Books ou military affairs procured for 39 

Observatory, Kew. Experiments on aneroids 350 

Observatory, National. Co-operation with ■ 16 

Oersted. Memoir of 166 

Officers of the Institution 5 

Orthoptera. Catalogue of, S. H. Scudder 18 

Osten Sacken. ilonograph of diptera 18 

Ozone. Schoenbein's discovery of 185 

Ozone. See Schoenbein 185, 189 

Pacific Mail Steamship Company. Aid rendered by 23 

Palmer, Dr. E. Aid rendered by 36 

Arrangement of ethnological collections 35 

Ethnolojjieal collections from 28 

Explorations by 25 

Inflian collections from 30 

Parker, Hon. Peter. Acts of, as Regent Ill 

Report of executive committee 108 

Report on canal Ill 

Patent Office. Co-operation with 16 

Peabody Academy of Science. Explorations by 3"2 

Peabody, George. Foundation of museum and professorship of ethnology by 26 

Peabody, Leonard. Collections from 29 

Peabody Museum, Cambridge. Explorations aided by .* 22 

Physical observations. Arctic seas, Hayes 17 

Physics. Traui?actions of Geneva Society of 364 

Pickering, Dr. Charles. Mummy case 20 

Plants. Transferred to Department of Agriculture 14 

Pollock, James. Report of director of mint 42- 

Powel, Samuel. Aid rendered, monograph of diptera 19 

Printing of report. Extra copies ordered 2 

Prize questions. Bordeaux 419 

Harlem 405,419 

Programme of Holland Society of Sciences 415 

of Imperial Academy of Sciences. Bordeaux 4J9 

of organization of the Institution 7 

Pruyn, Hon. J. V. L. Acts of, as Regent Ill 

Publications in natural history from Smitksonian material 1U2 

of the Institution up to July, ]8ti9 429 

of tho Institution. Account of 17 

Pumpelly, R. Geological researches in China, Mongolia, and Japan J7 

Radiation. By John Tyndall 292 

Rain-fall. Discussion and publication of 45 

Mf Nortii America. Discussion and reduction of .' 2y 

Rain-gauges. Description of 47 

Randolph, William B. Notice of death of 53 

liau, Charles. Agricultural flint implements in Southern Illinois 401 

Drilling in stone without metal 3M 

E.cploration.s by 32 

Rawson, Robert. Memoir of Ilodgkinson 20S 

Receipts and expenditures during 1863 108 



472 INDEX. 

Page. 

References ma de to collaborators *. 51 

Eegents, Board of. Journal of proceedings of Ill 

Regents of the Institution ft 

Relationship. Systems of, Lewis H. Morgan 19 

Reports. Account of 17 

Report, annual, to Congress for 1867. Account of 21 

Report, extra copies ordered 2 

Report, larger edition desirable 21 

Report of Secretary, Professor Henry, for 1868 12 

Report of the Assistant Secretary 54 

Report of Executive Committee for 1888 .' 108 

Report of Professor Henry presented and accepted 118 

Report, ordered to be printed 3 

Resolution instructing Executive Committee relative to canal 118 

Resolution to ask Congress to increase appropriation for care of museum 118 

Ridgway, Robert. Aid rendered by 35, 36 

Ross. B. R. Contributions from 23 

Russian telegraph exploration 21 

Salisbury. Notice cC Blackmore Museum at 408 

Salvin, 0. Birds from 26 

Sampson, U. Ethnological collections from 28 

Sands, Commodore. Co-operation of '. 40 

Sartorius, Dr. Explorations 25 

Schoenbein, Christian Frederic. Notice of - 185 

Schoolcraft, Mrs. H. R. Collections from 30 

Schott, C. A. Discussion of rain-fall 45 

Sclater, Dr. P. L. Bir'ds from ." 26 

Scudder, S. H. Catalogue of orthoptera 18 

Seudder, S. H. Insects assigned to 16 

Secretary. Investigations by the 38 

Seward, Hon. \Vm. H. Co-operation of - 40 

Shaw, E. Ethnological collections from , 28 

Shell-heaps. Exploration of 32 

Shells of America, land and fresh-water. Binney and Bland 20 

Shimer, Prof. H. Golden eagle from 35 

Silver coins. Assay of, at United States Mint 422 

Silver coins. Weight, fineness and value of 426 

Slagle, J. W. Collections from 29 

Smith, Dr. Birds from 26 

Smithson. Bequest and financial condition 108 

SmJthson. Library of 44 

Smithson. Will of ~ 

South America. Explorations in 25 

Specimens. Account of receipts in 1868 34 

Specimens, sent to collaborators 37 

Spofford, A. E. Co-operation of 40 

Statistics of exchanges in 1883 60 

Stearns, R. E. C. Birds and shells from ^ 24 

iStewart, B. Experiments on aneroid barometers 350 

Stimpson, Dr. Wm. Aid rendered by 35 

Stone. Implements and method of drilling 392 

Stratton, Jacob. Collections from 29 

Sumichrast, Prof. Exploration ef Tehuantepec 25 

Sundevall. Prof. Birds from 26 



INDEX. 473 

Page. 

Sylvester, S. II. , ethnological coUcctious from ^ 28 

Systematic list of Smithsonian publications 429 

Swan, J. G. Indians of Cape Flattery 20 

Swedish Academy of Sciences. Birds from 26 

Telegraph, Russian- American, Explorations 23 

Temperature. Discussion of 45 

Theory of heat. A. Cazin 231 

Theory of heat. Dr. Joh, Mailer 245 

Tipulidse. Monograph of 18 

Todd, Mr. Collections from 29 

Torrey, Dr. John. Botanical services 14 

Transfer of books to Library of Congress 14 

Transfer of craina, &c., to Army Medical Museum 15 

Transfer of herbarium to Department of Agriculture 14 

Trees. Reclaiming arid wastes by planting 48 

Trumbull, Hon. L. Acts of, as Regent Ill 

Trumbull, Professor, report on Morgan's work 20 

Turner, Granville. Flint hoe from 29 

Turner, Miss Jane, services in library 44 

Tyler, Mr. Collections from 29 

Tyndall, John, on radiation , 29*2 

Vibratory movement of matter. Magrini 281 

Victoria. Address of President of Royal Society of 3.')4 

Von Frantzius, Dr. Specimens from 25 

Wade, Hon. B. F. Acts of, as regent Ill 

Walker, Dr. Collections from 29 

Walker, Dr. P. L. Menopomas from 35 

Wallach, Richard, report on canal ., Ill 

Wartmann, Elie, transactions of Society of Physics and Natural Histoiy of Geneva 304 

Washington, a center of scientific activity 16 

Washington. Importance of institution to city of 16 

Western United States. Explorations 24 

White, Captain. Explorations, Alaska 24 

Whitney, Professor .J. D. , geological survey of California 38 

Whitney, Professor W. D., report on Morgan's Avork 20 

Whittlesey, Charles, fresh water glacial drift 17 

Will of Smithson ^ 7 

Wilson, Dr. Gopher turtles from 35 

Wilson, Jos. S. Explorations under 25 

Winds. Discussion of, by Professor Coffin 45 

Wood, Dr. W. Ethnological collections from 28 

Wyman, Professor J. Explorations by 32 

Wyman, Professor Jeffries. Organization of Peabody JIuseum 26 

Yale College. Collection of meteorites 342 

Yates, Dr. Collections from 30 

Zeledon, .1. Aid rendered by 35,30 

Zeledon, Jos6. Specimens from 25 

Zoological Museum, Copenhagen. Moose from 35 

31s 



O 



fv'^' 



T£-^"^'^>' 



'%.-i. 



"Vx 



^~ 



iT^ 



■D^ 






<«*: 







--», 



rV 






SNirrHSONIAN INSTrrUTION LIBRARIES 



