ufe-jfc 



S" 



•^*^ 



- — -^ 



^^l^p^. 



^r.^ 






-31'^*^ i^ 



ANNUAL REPORT 



OF 



THE BOARD OF REGENTS 



SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 



THE OPERATIONS, EXPENDITURES, AND CONDITION OF THE INSITTOxION 

FOR THE YEAR 1866. 



WASHINGTON: 

GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE. 
1872. 



IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES. 

March 1, 1867. 
Resolved, That five thousand addititional copies of the report of the Smithsonian Institu- 
tion for the year eighteen hundred and sixty-six, be printed; two thousand for the use of the 
Institution and three thousand for the use of the Senate ; and that said report he stereotyped ; 
Provided, That the aggregate number of pages contained in said report shall not exceed four 
hundred and fifty pages, without wood cuts orplates, except those furnished by the Institution. 



IN THE HOUSE OF EEPKESENTATIVES. 

February, 28, 1867. 
Resolved, That five thousand extra copies of the last report of the Smithsonian Institution 
be printed ; two thousand for the Institution and three thousand for tie use of the members 
of this House, and that the same be stereotyped. 



Congress of the United States, in the House or Representatives, 
Forty-second Congress, Second Session, May 29, 1872. 
The following resolution, originating in the House of Eepresentatives on the 23(1 
instant, has this day been concurred in by the Senate : 

Resolved, (the Senate concurring,) That two thousand extra copies each of the reports 
of the Smithsonian Institution, of which the stereotype-plates are now in the Con- 
gressional Printing-Ofifice, be printed for distribution by the Smithsonian Institution 
to libraries, colleges, and public establishments. 

Attest: EDW. McPHERSON, 

Cleric. 



LETTER 



SECRETARY OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 

COMMUNICATING 

THE ANNUAL EEPORT OF THE OPERATIONS, EXPENDITURES, AND CON- 
DITION OF THE INSTITUTION FOR THE YEAR 186G. ^ 



Smithsonian Institution, 
Washington, February 2G, 1867. 
In behalf of the Board of Regents, I have the honor to submit to 
the Congress of the United States the annual report of the operations, 
expenditures, and condition of the Smithsonian Institution for the 
year 1866. 

I have the honor to be, very respectfully, your obedient servant, 

JOSEPH HENRY, 
Secretary Smiihsoman Institution, 
Hon. L. F. S. Foster, 

President of the Senate. 
Hon. S. Colfax, 

Speaker of the House of Representatives, 



ANMJAL REPOKT OF THE BOAED OF REGENTS 



OF THE 



SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 



THE OPERATIONS, EXPENDITURES, AND CONDITION OF THE INSTITUTION 

UP TO JANUARY, 1867, AND THE PROCEEDINGS OF THE 

BOARD UP TO MARCH 1, 1867. 



To the Senate and House of Representatives : 

In obedience to the act of Congress of August 10, 1846, establish- 
ing the Smithsonian Institution, the undersigned, in behalf of the Re- 
gents, submit to Congress, as a report of the operations, expenditures, 
and condition of the Institution, the following documents : 

1. The Annual Report of the Secretary, giving an account of the 
operations of the Institution during the year 1866. 

2. Report of the Executive Committee, giving a general statement 
of the Smithsonian fund, and also an account of the expenditures fo: 
the year 1866. 

3. Proceedings of the Board of Regents up to March, 1867. 

4. Appendix. 

Respectfully submitted: 

S. P. CHASE, Chancellor. 
JOSEPH HENRY, Secretary. 



OFFICERS OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 

FEBRUARY, 1867. 



ANDREW JOHNSON, ex officio Presiding Officer of the Listitution. 

SALMON P. CHASE, Chancellor of the Institution. 

JOSEPH HENRY, Secretary of the Institution. 

SPENCER F. BAIRD, Assistant Secretary. 

WILLIAM J. RHEES, Chief Clerk. 

RICHARD WALL AC H, 



RICHARD DELAFIELD ' Executive Committee 



.J 



REGENTS OF THE INSTITUTION, 



L. F. S. FOSTER, Vice-President of the United States. 

S. P. CHASE, Chief Justice of the United States. 

R. WALLACH, Mayor of the City of Washington. 

L. TRUMBULL, member of the Senate of the United States. 

GARRETT DAVIS, member of the Senate of the United States. 

W. P. FESSENDEN, member of the Senate of the United States. 

J. A. GARFIELD, member of the House of Representatives. 

J. W. PATTERSON, member of the House of Representatives. 

J. F. FARNSWORTH, member of the House of Representatives. 

W. B. ASTOR, citizen of New York. 

T. D. WOOLSEY, citizen of Connecticut. 

L. AGASSIZ, citizen of Massachusetts. 

RICHARD DELAFIELD, citizen of Washington. 



MEMBERS EX OFFICIO OF THE INSTITUTION. 



ANDEEW JOHNSON, President of the United States, 

L. F. S. FOSTER, Vice-President of the United States. 

W. H. SEWARD, Secretary of State. 

H. Mcculloch, Secretary of the Treasury. 

E. M. STANTON, Secretary of War. 

G. WELLES, Secretary of the Navy. 

A. W. RANDALL, Postmaster General. 

H. STANBERY, Attorney General. 

S. P. CHASE, Chief Justice of the United States. 

T. C. THEAKER, Commissioner of Patents. 

RICHARD WALLACH, Mayor of the City of Washington. 



HONORARY MEMBER. 



0. H. BROWNING, Secretary of the Interior, (ex officio.} 



PROGRAMME OF ORGANIZATION 

OF THE 

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 



[PRESENTED IN THE FIRST ANNUAL REPORT OF THE SECRETARY, AND 
ADOPTED BY THE BOARD OF REGENTS, DECEMBER 13, 1847.] 



INTRODUCTION. 

General considerations ivhicli should serve as a guide in adopting a Plan 

of Organization. 

1. Will of Smithson. The property is bequeathed to the United 
States of America, ' ' to found at Washington, under the name of the 
Smithsonian Institution, an establishment for the increase and diffu- 
sion of knowledge among men." 

2. The bequest is for the benefit of mankind. The government 
of the United States is merely a trustee to carry out the design of 
the testator. 

3. The Institution is not a national establishment, as is frequently 
supposed, but the establishment of an individual, and is to bear and 
perpetuate his name. 

4. The objects of the Institution are, 1st, to increase, and 2d, t 
diffuse knowledge among men. 

5. These two objects should not be confounded with one another. 
The first is to enlarge the existing stock of knowledge by the addition 
of new truths ; and the second, to disseminate knowledge, thus in- 
creased, among men. 

6. The will makes no restriction in favor of any particular kind of 
knowledge ; hence all branches are entitled to a share of attention. 

7. Knowledge can be increased by different methods of facilitating 
and promoting the discovery of new truths ; and can be most exten- 
sively diffused among men by means of the press. 

8. To effect the greatest amount of good, the organization should 
be such as to enable the Institution to produce results, in the way of 
increasing and diffusing knowledge, which cannot be produced either 
at all or so efficiently by the existing institutions in our country. 

9. The organization should also be such as can be adopted provi- 
sionally ; can be easily reduced to practice, receive modifications, or 
be abandoned, in whole or in part, without a sacrifice of the funds. 



8 PROGRAMME OF ORGANIZATION. 

10. In order to compensate, in some measure, for the loss of time 
occasioned by the delay of eight years in establishing the Institution, 
a considerable portion of the interest which has accrued should be 
added to the principal. 

11. In proportion to the wide field of knowledge to be cultivated, 
the funds are small. Economy should, therefore, be consulted in the 
construction of the building ; and not only the first cost of the edifice 
should be considered, but also the continual expense of keeping it in 
repair, and of the support of the establishment necessarily connected 
with it. There should also be but few individuals permanently sup- 
ported by the Institution. 

12. The plan and dimensions of the building should be determined 
by the plan of the organization, and not the converse. 

13. It should be recollected that mankind in general are to be 
benefited by the bequest, and that, therefore, all unnecessary expen- 
diture on local objects would be a perversion of the trust. 

14. Brides the foregoing considerations, deduced immediately from 
the will of Smithson, regard must be had to certain requirements of 
the act of Congress establishing the Institution. These are, a library, 
a museum, and a gallery of art, with a building on a liberal scale to 
contain them. 

SECTION I. 

Flan of Organization of the Institution in accordance with the foregoing 
deductions from the ivill of Smithson. 

To INCEEASE KNOWLEDGE. It is proposed 

1. To stimulate men of talent to make original researches, by ofi'er- 
ing esuitable rewards for memoirs containing new truths ; and, 

2. To appropriate annually a portion of the income for particular 
researches, under the direction of suitable persons. 

To DIFFUSE KNOWLEDGE. It is propOSCd — 

1. To publish a series of periodical reports on the progress of the 
different branches of knowledge ; and, 

2. To publish occasionally separate treatises on subjects of general 
interest. 

DETAILS OF THE PLAN TO INCREASE KNOWLEDGE. 
I^ By stimulating researcJies. 

1. Facilities afibrded for the production of original memoirs on ail 
branches of knowledge. 

2. The memoirs thus obtained to be published in a series of vol- 
umes, in a quarto form, and entitled Smithsonian Contributions to 
Knowledge. 

3. No memoir on subjects of physical science to be accepted for 



PROGRAMME OF ORGANIZATION. 9 

publication which does not furnish a positive addition to human 
knowledge, resting on original research ; and all unverified specula- 
tions to be rejected. 

4. Each memoir presented to the Institution to be submitted for 
examination to a commission of persons of reputation for learning in 
the branch to which the memoir pertains ; and to be accepted for 
publication only in case the report of this commission is favorable. 

5. The commission to be chosen by the officers of the Institution, 
and the name of the author, as far as practicable, concealed, unless 
a faTorable decision be made. 

6. The volumes of the memoirs to be exchanged for the Trans- 
actions of literary and scientific societies, and copies to be given to 
all tlB colleges and principal libraries, in this country. One part of 
the remaining copies may be offered for sale ; and the other carefully 
preseived, to form comptete sets of the work, to supply the demand 
from mw institutions. 

7. Ai abstract, or popular account, of the contents of these memoirs 
to be gveu to the public through the annual report of the Regents to 
Congres 



II. By appropriating a part of the income, annually, to special objects 
of research^ under the direction of suitable persons. 

1. The «bjects and the amount appropriated, to be recommended 
by counselors of the Institution. 

2. Appropriations in difi^erent years to different objects ; so that 
in course of time each branch of knowledge may receive a share. 

3. The results obtained from these appropriations to be published, 
with the menoirs before mentioned, in the volumes of the Smith- 
sonian Contrijutions to Knowledge. 

4. Example of objects for which appropriations may be made. 
(1.) System of extended meteorological observations for solving 

the problem oiAmerican storms. 

(2.) Exploraions in descriptive natural history, and geological, 
magnetical, an a topographical surveys, to collect materials for the 
formation of a Physical Atlas of the United States. 

(3.) Solution a experimental problems, such as a new determina- 
tion of the weighiof the earth, of the velocity of electricity, and of 
light J chemical analyses of soils and plants ; collection and publica- 
tion of scientific fi';ts, accumulated in the offices of government. 

(4.) Institution (? statistical inquiries with reference to physical, 
moral, and politicaisubjects. 

(5.) Historical re^arches, and accurate surveys of places celebrated 
in American history. 

(6.) Ethnological esearches, particularly with reference to the 
different races of menin North America; also, explorations and ac- 
curate surveys of the bounds and other remains of the ancient people 
of our country. 



10 PEOGRAMME OF ORGANIZATION. 

DETAILS OF THE PLAN FOR DIFFUSING KNOWLEDGE. 

I. By the puUication of a series of reports,. giving an account of the new 
discoveries in science, and of the changes made from year to year in 
all branches of knowledge not strictly professional. 

1. These reports will diffuse a kind of knowledge generally in- 
teresting, but which, at present, is inaccessible to the public. Seme 
of the reports may be published annually, others at longer intervals, 
as the income of the Institution or the changes in the branches of 
knowledge may indicate. 

2. The reports are to be prepared by collaborators eminent in the 
different branches of knowledge. 

3. Each collaborator to be furnished with the journals and publi- 
cations, domestic and foreign, necessary to the compilation of his 
report ; to be paid a certain sum for his labors, and to be naned on 
the title-page of the report. 

4. The reports to be published in separate parts, so thatpersons 
interested in a particular branch can procure the parts relating to it 
without purchasing the whole. 

5. These reports may be presented to Congress, for partal distri- 
bution, the remaining copies to be given to literary and scbntific in- 
stitutions, and sold to individuals for a moderate price. 

The following are some of the subjects Avhich may be enbraced in 
the reports :* 

I. PHYSICAL CLASS. 

1. Physics, including astronomy, natural philosophy chemistry, 
and meteorology. 

2. Natural history, including botany, zoology, geoloj^ &c. 

3. Agriculture. 

4. Application of science to arts. 

II. MORAL AND POLITICAL CLASS. 

5. Ethnology, including particular history, compaative philology, 
antiquities, &c. 

6. Statistics and political economy. 

7. Mental and moral philosophy. 

8. A survey of the political events of the world penal reform, &c. 

III. LITERATURE AND THE FINE AXTS. 

9. Modern literature. 

10. The fine arts, and their application to theuseful arts. 

11. Bibliography. , 

12. Obituary notices of distinguished individals. 

II. By the puUication of separate treatises on snjects of general interest. 

1. These treatises may occasionally consit of valuable memoirs 
translated from foreign languages, or of artiies prepared under the 

*This part of the plan has been but partiaj carried out. 



PEOGEAMME OF OEGANIZATION. 11 

direction of the Institution, or procured by offering premiums for the 
best exposition of a given subject. 

2. The treatises should, in all cases, be submitted to a commission 
of competent judges, previous to their publication. 

3. As examples of these treatises, expositions may be obtained of 
the present state of the several branches of knowledge mentioned in 
the table of reports. 

SECTION 11. 

Plan of organization^ in accordance tvith the terms of the resolutions of 
the Board of Regents providing for the two modes of increasing and 
diffiising knoivledgc. 

1. The act of Congress establishing the Institution contemplated 
the formation of a library and a museum ; and the Board of Regents, 
including these objects in the plan of organization, resolved to divide 
the income* into two equal parts. 

2. One part to be appropriated to increase and diffuse knowledge 
by means of publications and researches, agreeably to the scheme 
before given. The other part to be appropriated to the formation 
of a library and a collection of objects of nature and of art. 

3. These two plans are not incompatible with one another. 

4. To carry out the plan before described, a library Avill be re- 
quired, consisting, 1st, of a complete collection of the transactions 
and proceedings of all the learned societies in the world ; 2d, of the 
more important current periodical publications, and other works 
necessary in preparing the periodical reports. 

5. The Institution should make special collections, particularly of 
objects to illustrate and verify its own publications. 

6. Also, a collection of instruments of research in all branches of 
experimental science. 

7. With reference to the collection of books, other than those 
mentioned above, catalogues of all the different libraries in the 
United States should be procured, in order that the valuable books 
first purchased may be such as are not to be found in the United 
States. 

8. Also, catalogues of memoirs, and of books and other materials, 
should be collected for rendering the Institution a centre of biblio- 
graphical knowledge, whence the student may be directed to any 
work which he may require. 

9. It is believed that the collections in natural history will increase 
by donation as rapidly as the income of the Institution can make pro- 
vision for their reception, and, therefore, it will seldom be necessary 
to purchase articles of this kind. 

10. Attempts should be made to procure for the gallery of art 
casts of the most celebrated articles of ancient and modern sculpture. 

* The amount of the Smithsonian bequest received into the Treasury of the 

United States is $515, 169 00 

Interest on the same to July 1, 1846, (devoted to the erection of the building). 242, 129 00 
Annual income from the bequest 30, 910 14 



12 PEOGEAMME OF CEGANIZATION. 

11. The arts may be encouraged by providing a room, free of 
expense, for the exhibition of the objects of the Art-Union and other 
similar societies. 

12. A small appropriation should annually be made for models of 
antiquities, such as those of the remains of ancient temples, &c. 

13. For the present, or until the building is fully completed, be- 
sides the Secretary, no permanent assistant will be required, except 
one, to act as librarian. 

14. The Secretary, by the law of Congress, is alone responsible to 
the Regents. He shall take charge of the building and propert}'-, 
keep a record of proceedings, discharge the duties of librarian and 
keeper of the museum, and may, with the consent of the Regents, 
employ assistants. 

15. The Secretary and his assistants, during the session of Congress, 
will be required to illustrate new discoveries in science, and to exhibit 
new objects of art. Distinguished individuals should also be invited 
to give lectures on subjects of general interest. 



This programme, which was at first adopted provisionally, has be- 
come the settled policy of the Institution. The only material change 
is that expressed by the following resolutions, adopted January 15, 
1855, viz : 

Besolved, That the 7th resolution passed by the Board of Regents, 
on the 26th of January, 1847, requiring an equal division of the 
income between the active operations and the museum and library, 
when the buildings are completed, be, and it is hereby, repealed. 

Resolved, That hereafter the annual appropriations shall be appor- 
tioned specifically among the difierent objects and operations of the 
Institution, in such manner as may, in the judgment of the Regents, 
be necessary and proper for each, according to its intrinsic import- 
ance and a compliance in good faith with the law. 



REPORT 



OF THE 



SECRETARY, PROFESSOR HENRY, FOR 1866. 



Gentlemen: It again becomes my duty to present to your honorable 
board the history of another year of the Institution founded on the be- 
quest of James Smithson, and intrusted by the Congress of the United 
States to your care. In presenting the following account of the events 
of the year 1866 I am gratified in being able to state that the fire 
which occurred at the beginning of the previous year, and which, at 
the time, appeared so disastrous, has, in reality, led to the adoption 
of measures for the increase and better security of the funds, and of 
changes of importance to the future efficiency of the means of carry- 
ing out the intentions of the benevolent testator. 

It will be seen by the report of the executive committee that, hj 
judicious investments and the sale of coin received from England dt» 
the residuary legacy of Smithson, as well as that of the asBual 
interest from the United States, not only have the operations of the 
Institution been maintained, and the reconstruction of the building 
carried on without any aid from government, but the finances have 
been improved and are now in a better condition than at any former 
period. If the petition to Congress to permit additions to be made 
to the principal on the same terms as those on which the original be- 
quest was received into the treasury of the United States be granted,* 
then the extra fund, at the present market value of the stocks in 
which it is invested, will be sufficient to increase the endowment from 
$515,169 to $650,000, and still leave enough to complete the general 
restoration of the building, provided the cost of the restoration be 
limited to $150,000. For these results the Institution is much in- 
debted to the personal exertions and influence of the Chancellor, 
Chief Justice Chase, to whom constant reference has been had during 
the past year in the management of the finances of the establishment. 

Although the present condition of the fund is a matter of congrat- 
ulation, yet there is another fact belonging to the history of 1866 of 

" Congress passed an act Febraary 8, 1867, in accordance with the above, allowing the 
Regents to increase the capital by savings, donations, and otherwise, to a million dollars. 



14 EEPOET OF THE SECRETARY. 

equal if not greater importance, in regard to the future efficiency of 
the Institution. I alhide to the transfer of the Smithson library for 
safe -keeping and support to the library of Congress. To those who 
have not fully considered the subject, it might, at first sight, appear 
that this transfer of a large number of rare and valuable books from 
the building of the Institution would be attended with serious 
inconveniences, and be a virtual relinquishment of the control of 
property procured at the expense of the Smithsonian fund. But it 
will be evident, on a statement of the facts, that the advantages ac- 
cruing to the Institution and the public from the transfer far outweigh 
any inconvenience which may arise on account of it ; and that it will 
tend to increase the efficiency of the funds, while it adds to the 
security and even facilitates the general use of the library. 

Although the removal of the books renders them somewhat less 
accessible to those engaged in study and researches at the Institution, 
yet all the current transactions of the scientific Societies of the world, 
which constitute the principal part of the library, will be still received 
at the Institution. An opportunity will thus be afforded of noting their 
contents before they are sent to the Capitol, and such books will per- 
manently be retained as are of most constant reference. In addition 
to this, the Institution is to have, at all times, the free use of the books of 
the congressional library as well as those of its own, and for this pur- 
pose, and the better accommodation of the public, the library of Congress 
is to be open throughout the year, with the exception of a month for 
cleaning and examination . Hence the general student, instead of being 
debarred any important privilege, will find increased facility for re- 
search in having access, in the same building, to both libraries. Again, 
the east wing of the Smithsonian building, in which the books were 
deposited, is not fire-proof, and is liable to destruction by accident or 
the torch of the incendiary, while the rooms of the Capitol are of in- 
combustible materials. This wing was, moreover, filled to overflowing , 
and a more extended and secure depository could not be obtained, 
except by another large draught on the accumulated funds intended to 
form part of the permanent capital. Besides this, by the terms of 
the transfer, the cost of the care, binding, and cataloguing of the 
Smithsonian books is provided for by government, and an important 
part of the annual income of the Institution is thus saved for other 
purposes. 

But the advantages of the transfer are not confined to the Institu- 
tion. The library of Congress has secured such an addition as can- 
not be obtained by purchase, since many of the books are presents 
from the duplicates of the old libraries of Europe, consisting of trans- 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 15 

actions and other publications of the learned societies of the world, 
forming a special collection, not only ranking as first in this country, 
but one of the best anywhere in existence. Neither is it alone the value 
of the books that have actually been transferred which is to be con- 
sidered, but also the means which are offered, through our system of 
exchange, for the perpetual increase of the several series of works 
which contain the record of the actual progress of the world in all 
that essentially pertains to the mental and physical development of 
thft human family. The transfer of the Smithson library has fur- 
thermore tended to awaken an interest in the library of Congress, 
which cannot fail, under the energetic superintendence of the pres- 
ent librarian, Mr. Spofiford, in a few years to render it worthy of the 
national Capital. An appropriation of $100,000 has been recommend- 
ed* by the Joint Committee of the two houses of Congress for the pur- 
chase of the library of Mr. Peter Force, consisting of books relative 
to America. With these additions the library of Congress will be 
the largest in the United States, and the necessity of a separate 
building is even already foreshadowed. 

But above all, the act authorizing the reception, care, and support 
of the Smithson library may be considered as an approval by Con- 
gress of the general policy adopted and the course pursued by the 
Institution. It will be recollected that at the commencement a num- 
ber of influential literary men warmly advocated the expendit'^ire of 
the larger portion of the income of the Smithson fund in the establish- 
ment and support of a library. This plan was opposed on the ground 
that the Institution by the terms of the bequest should be of a cosmo- 
politan character, and produce results, the benefits of which would 
not be confined to one city, nor even one country, and which could 
not be accomplished by a library. The act of organization, however, 
was. so expressed as to give color to the idea that a large library was 
intended by Congress, and much complaint was at one lime made be- 
cause more of the income was not expended in the purchase of books. 
The late legislation of Congress will leave no ground for further cavil 
in regard to this point, and while the Institution will be relieved 
from a large expenditure on account of the library, a national collec- 
tion of books will be formed far more extensive than could possibly be 
supported by the Smithson fund. 

Moreover, while thus relieving the Institution from a charge which 
has borne so heavily on its resources, Congress has afforded most en- 
couraging evidence of an important advance in public opinion regard- 



* An act has been passed in accordance with this recommendation, and the library of Mr. 
Force is now the pioperty of the goverDiiieut. 



16 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

iiig the right interpretation of the terms of the Smithson bequest. It 
is substantially a recognition by the national legislature of the fact that 
the Smithson fund ought not to be burdened with the support of objects 
which, while they absorb the income, are locally restricted in their 
influence, and neither essentially connected with the design, nor au- 
thorized by the language of the trust. Since Congress has eventually 
thought proper to assume the care of the library we may cherish the 
hope that in due time it will also make provision for the separate 
maintenance of a collection of objects of "nature and art," not un- 
worthy of the National Capital; and that the proceeds of a fund, now 
generally recognized as having been intended by the testator for ob- 
jects of a higher order than those confined to local or even national 
benefit, will be entirely devoted to the system of operations which 
an experience of nearly twenty years has abundantly shown to be 
the best and most practical means of realizing the design of the tes- 
tator. 

It is much to be regretted that views of this kind did not prevail 
at the time of the organization of the Institution, for had this been 
the case no small amount of the funds would have been saved, and un- 
pleasant discusssion been averted, the tendency of which could only, 
be to obstruct and retard the full development of a system which now 
constitutes the distinctive and approved policy of the establishment. 
It is, however, scarcely a matter of surprise that Congress was not, at 
the time mentioned, prepared to appreciate the significance of the 
term.s of the Smithson bequest, since the world generally has failed to 
recognize the importance of abstract scientific truths . Although these 
truths constitute the most important elements of modern civilization, 
since they give man power and control over the inherent forces of nature, 
and enable him to render these the obedient slaves of his will ; yet, 
there is even at this time no country, however intelligent it may ap- 
pear in other respects, that has made adequate provision for the dis- 
covery and development of these important principles. Our own 
legislators can give no better evidence of enlightened views and wise 
policy than a free acknowledgement of the claims of science, and a 
liberal provision for its encouragement and support. 

The propriety of making provision for the separate maintenance of 
a national museuna, and of relieving the Smithson fund from the 
burden imposed upon it in this way, will be evident when the fact 
is recalled that the plan of the present expensive building was 
adopted to accommodate the museum of the Wilkes' exploring expe- 
dition, the care of which had been devolved upon the Institution by 
the law of Congress. But the Board of Regents, after the building 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 17 

was completed, decided that the keeping of this museum ought not 
to be a charge on the Smithson fund, and before assuming the care 
of it asked an appropriation, at least equal to the cost of keeping the 
articles while in the Patent Office. Congress recognized the pro- 
priety of this position, complied with the request, and has appro- 
propriated since the transfer, annually, $4,000. This sum, however, 
has not sufficed to defray the cost of attendance, even during the 
period of low prices previous to the war, without allowing for any 
increase in the number of articles, or for the interest of the money 
expended on the building. 

It is highly gratifying to observe that a more liberal spirit at 
present exists. Congress has recently made provision, on an 
ample scale, for the accommodation of an Army Anatomical Museum, 
and for a Museum connected with the Agricultural Department, and 
it can scarcely be doubted, that on a proper presentation of the sub- 
ject, the same enlightened consideration which prompted the appro- 
priations for these kindred objects, will also induce Congress either 
to appropriate the Smithsonian building to the use of a National 
museum, under a separate organization and endowment, or else to 
make an annual grant of money, which, expended under the direction 
o^ the Board of Regents, shall be sufficient properly to support an 
estauVishment of this kind. 

The reconstruction of the building has been carried on during the 
past year as rapidly as the funds at command and a due regard to the 
character of the work would allow. The considerations which have 
governed the building committee have been to render the work en- 
tirely stable in regard to materials and construction and thoroughly 
fire-proof, first completing such parts as were necessary for the safety of 
the structure, and next those most wanted for use in the operations of 
the establishment. 

One of the most important points to be determined during the year 
was the kind of roof to be adopted for the main building, and, after 
full inquiry, the preference was given to one consisting of an iron 
frame with slate covering. The contract for the iron work was made 
with the Phoenix Iron Company of Philadelphia, but owing to unex- 
pected delays the frame was not received in time before the setting 
in of frost to complete the covering with slate. The walls of the 
large south tower were found in a worse condition than was at first 
supposed, thirty feet of the height having to be removed and en- 
tirely rebuilt, the facing of cut stone being of new material. To se- 
cure the front towers and furnish supports for the iron beams and 
2 s6G 



18 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

brick arches for the floors, a lining of brick, laid in cement, has been 
constructed from the bottom to the lop. The inner lining of the 
walls of the upper story of the main building, whicb was exposed to 
the fire, has also been entirely renewed with similar materials. The 
masonry of the whole building is now completed, and it is expected 
during the next season to finish all the rooms except the main hall 
over the museum. The future use of this room, which is 200 feet 
long by 50 feet wide, has not yet been settled. It will not be wan- 
ted for the uses of the Institution, and unless devoted to a National 
Museum or to some other purpose, it will probably remain for an in- 
definite time, unfinished. The reconstruction of the building, exclu- 
sive of this room, will cost about $150, 000, and if to this be added 
the sum previously expended on the erection of the building, we shall 
have a total of $475,000, of which, at least, $400,000 might have been 
added to the principal, or expended in the promotion of knowledge. 
Tlie superintendence of the work is still under the direction of the 
architect, Mr. Adolf Cluss, and every part of the construction and 
all the plans have been critically examined and discussed by General 
Delafield, chairman of the building committee, who has taken great 
interest, since his appointment, not only in the restoration of the 
building, but in all the operations of the Institution. 

Publications.— The amount expended for printing during 1866 has 
been fully equal to that in any previous year, although the number 
of «eiy works which have been issued is less. This has been occa- 
sioned by the high price of paper and printing, and by the necessity 
of issuing new editions of works for which the demand was more 
pressing. 

The following is a list of the works in quarto^ forming part of the 
series entitled "Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge," published 
during the year 1866: 

1. An Investigation of the Orbit of Neptune, with general tables of 
its motion, by Professor Simon Newcomb, U. S. navy, pp. 110. 
(Published Januar.y, 1866.) 

2. Geological Researches in China, Mongolia, and Japan during 
the years 1862 to 1865, by Raphael Pumpelly, esq., pp.161, Opiates, 
18 wood-cuts. (Published August, 1866.) 

3. On the Fresh-water Glacial Drift of the Northwestern States, 
by Charles Whittlesey, esq., pp. 32, 2 maps, 11 wood-cuts. (Pub- 
lished December, 1866.) 

Of other quarto works in press the following are nearly ready for 
distribution: 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 10 

1. Astronomical, Magnetic, Tid;il, and Meteorological Observations 
within the Arctic Circle, by Isaac I. Hayes, M. D. 

2. Meteorological Observations made at Brunswick, Maine, for 
fifty-two years, by Professor P. Cleaveland, from 1807 to 1859. 

The memoirs of Newcomb, Pumpelly, and Hayes were fully de- 
scribed in the report for 1865. It therefore remains to give the ac- 
count of that of Mr. Whittlesey on the Fresh-water Glacial Drift of 
the Northern States, which will be found at the end of this report. 

The following works in octavo were also published in 1866: 

1. Catalogue of publications of societies and of periodical works 
belonging to the Smithsonian Institution, (January,) 596 pp. 

2. Monograph of American Corbiculadas, recent and fossil, by 
Temple Prime, (January,) 91 pp. 

3. List of works published by the Smithsonian Institution, (Jan. 
uary,) 11 pp. 

4. New species of North American Coleoptera, by Jno. L. Lo- 
Conte, pages 87 to 177, of part I, (April,) 90 pp. 

5. List of the Coleoptera of North America, bj Jno. L. LeConte, 
pages 50 to 78, (April,) 30 pp. 

6. Check-list of the Invertebrate Fossils of North America, Eocene 
and Oligocene, by T. A. Conrad, (May,) 45 pp. 

7 . Review of American birds in the collection of the Smithsonian 
Institution. By Prof. S. F. Baird. Pp. 321-450 ; (May and June,) 
130 pp. • 

The memoirs actually completed and issued in the year therefore 
embraced 303 quarto pages and 993 octavo pages, which, with the 
annual report, 496 pages, makes an aggregate of 1,792 pages printed 
within the year. 

New editions of the following works have been issued during the 
same period: Allen's Bats; Binney'sLand and Fresh-water Shells, parts 
II and III; Instructions for collecting specimens of Natural History; 
circular relative to nests and eggs; check-list of shells; comparative 
vocabulary; ethnological instructions; catalogue of minerals; check- 
list of fossils ; Draper on the Telescope. 

The most expensive octavo publication during the past year has 
been the catalogue of the transactions of learned Societies and other 
public bodies, as well as of encyclopedias and other serial works in the 
library of the Institution. The printing of this work was begun m 
1863 and completed in 1866. During its passage through the press 
proof-sheets were sent to the principal Societies abroad, for the pur- 
pose, first, of securing accuracy in the titles; second, of showing the defi- 



20 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

ciencies in our series, and thus enabling the Societies, as far as possi- 
ble, to supply them. This work forms a large octavo volume of 596 
pages. It has been stereotyped, and copies have been distributed to 
;^,he principal libraries in this country and Europe, with a view mainly 
10 obtain from them such duplicates as they may possess which may 
serve to render more complete the Smithson collection of transac- 
tions. The catalogue of the Avorks thus obtained will be printed in 
an appendix, accompanied by proper indexes, wben the whole will be 
issued and more generally 'distributed as one of the series of volumes 
of Smithsonian miscellaneous collections. From the stereotype plates 
an edition of this work has been struck off at the government print- 
ing office for the use of the library of Congress. This catalogue is 
considered the most complete work on the bibliography of publica- 
tions of learned societies which has yet appeared in the English lan- 
guage. 

Another article belonging to the octavo series is a catalogue of the 
eocene fossils belonging to the series of check-lists of invertebrate 
fossils of North America, prepared at the request of the Institution by 
Mr. T. A. Conrad, of Philadelphia. It contains an enumeration of all 
the species described from the eocene formation up to the date of 
publication, and is intended to facilitate the labelling of collections 
and the distribution of duplicate specimens. 

The publication of two other parts of this series, prepared by Mr. 
r. B. Meek, narael}^ on the miocene, and on the cretaceous and Ju- 
rassic species, were mentioned in a previous report. 

The different series of check-lists published by the Institution have 
fully answered the purpose intended, in supplying a want long felt by 
students of natural history; and successive editions from the stereo- 
type plates are required, the cost of which has formed a large item of 
the expenditure for printing during the past year. 

Besides the foregoing articles 92 pages of an addition to the descrip- 
tion of new species, and 30 pages of an addition to the list of coleop- 
tera of North America, by Dr. John LeConte, have been printed 
during the year. These additions bring the works mentioned to the 
same point in regard to completeness as the first part of the cli\ssifi- 
cation of coleoptera by the same author, published by the Institution 
several years ago. 

Another article, which will form a part of the miscellaneous collec- 
tions, and printed during the year, is a list of all the works published 
by the Institution up to the beginning of the year 1866, enuinerating 
203 distinct titles, arranged under the following heads: 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 21 

Vols. 

General series — Smithsoaian Contributions 15 

Smithsonian Misicellaneous Collections 5 

Smithsonian Reports 14 

No. of 
papers. 

Mathematics 1 

Astronomy 21 

Meteorology • IT 

Terrestrial Magnetism • 11 

Physics 3 

General Physics of the Globe 2 

Chemistry and Technolog}'' 3 

Ethnology and Philology 16 

Microscopical Science 4 

General Natural History 3 

Physiology 5 

Zoology 37 

Botany 9 

^d,leeonl:ology 9 

Geology and Physical Geography 4 

Bibliography 8 

Architecture 1 

Miscellaneous 1 

Of many of the earlier of the separate publications the edition has 
been exhausted. Of those that remain copies can be procured, at the 
prices mentioned in the list, by institutions and individuals who do not 
come within the following rules of gratuitous distribution: 

1. They are presented to all learned Societies of the first class 
Avhich publish transactions, and give copies of these, in exchange, to 
the Institution. 

2. To all foreign libraries of the first class, provided they give in 
exchange their catalogues and other publications, or an equivalent, 
from their duplicate volumes. 

3. To permanently endowed colleges in actual operation in this 
country, provided they furnish in return meteorological observations, 
catalogues of their libraries and of their students, and all other pub- 
lications issued by them relative to their organization and history. 

4. To all States and Territories, provided they give in return 
copies of ail documents published under their authority. 

5. To all incorporated public libraries in this country, not included 
in any of the foregoing classes, now containing 10,000 volumes; and 



22 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

to smaller libraries, where a whole State or large district would be 
otherwise unsupplied. 

. Institutions devoted exclusively to the promotion of particular 
branches of knowledge receive such articles published by the Insti- 
tution as relate to their objects. Portions of the series are also given 
to institutions of lesser grade not entitled, under the above rules, to 
the full series; and also to the meteorological correspondents of the 
Institution. 

The Reports are of a more popular character, and are presented — 

1. To all the meteorological observers and other collaborators of 
the Institution. 

2. To donors to its library or museum. 

3. To colleges and other educational establishments. 

4. To public libraries and literary and scientific societies. 

5. To teachers or individuals who are engaged in special studies, 
and who make direct application for them. 

In consideration of the growing expenses of the Institution, and the 
increasing demand for its publications, it may becomes necessary to 
restrict the gratuitous distribution, and to take measures to secure a 
larger sale by the usual methods adopted by publishers. 

Reports. — The usual number of extra copies of the Report for 1865 
was ordered by Congress, and, as has been the case for several years 
past, was stereotyped, so that future editions may be printed if re- 
quired. 

This volume contains, in addition to the report of the Secretary 
and the proceedings of the Board, the following articles: 

A eulogy on General Joseph G. Totten, late Chief Engineer of the 
United States army, and a Regent of the Smithsonian Institution from 
its organization, delivered by Major General J. G. Barnard before 
the National Academy of Sciences; a Memoir of De Blainville, by 
Flourens, translated from memoirs of the the French Academy of Sci- 
ences; a report of the transactions of the Society of Physics and Natural 
History of Geneva for 1863 and 1864: an original article on the aurora 
borealis, with illustrations, by Professor E. Loomis; a translation from 
the German of an article on the senses of feeling and smell ; a translation 
of a course of lectures by Professor Matteuci on electro-physiology; 
an essay on the palafittes or lacustrian constructions of the Lake of Neu- 
chatel, by Professor E. Desor, of Switzerland, with notes and illus- 
trations furnished by the author; a continuation of Plateau's re- 
searches on the figures of equilibrium of a liquid mass withdrawn 
from the action of gravity: an outline by Professor W. LiJljeborg, of 
Upsala, of the latest views of ornithologists in reference to the 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 23 

Classification and arrangement of the higher divisions of birds, and 
such as has been adopted in tlie museum of the Smithsonian Institu- 
tion; prize questions proposed by various scientific societies in 
Europe; and an article on the motric system of weights and measures, 
with tables intended especially for the use of teachers and authors of 
arithmetics, prepared for the Institution by Professor H. A. Newton. 

The translations are from French, German, and Italian scientific 
publications, not generally accessible to readers in this country, and 
most of them have been made by C. A. Alexander, esq., of this city, 
who has devoted much of his time, almost gratuitously, foi a number 
of years, to this part of the literar}' work of the Institution. 

We have found from experience that to obtain proper scientific 
translations is a very difficult matter. It is rare to find an individual 
having so critical a knowledge of languages, united with other requi- 
site qualifications, as to render with fidelity and spirit such discursive 
popular explanations as are conveyed in the articles in the appendix 
to the Report for 186') on the Senses. In this respect Mr. Alexan- 
der has evinced much ability. The meaning of the original is not 
only rendered with great accuracy, but with reference to peculiari- 
ties of expression on the part of the authors, and with a critical re- 
gard to the precision and correctness of the English. " 

It is proper to mention in this connection that we are indebted to 
the Superintendent of Public Printing for greater facilities than usual 
in the publication of the report, which, on account of the character 
of the articles, and their translation from foreign languages, requires 
more than ordinary time and care in revision. 

Meteorology. — The system of meteorological observations inaugu- 
rated by the Institution, which was much interrupted by the war, is 
gradually being re-established, and as soon as the expenses for the 
restoration of the building are diminished we hope to carry it on more 
efficiently on an improved basis. The meteorological system under 
the direction of the Surgeon Greneral is also in process of reorgani- 
zation, and as soon as the military posts are permanently established it 
will be recommenced with improved instruments, and in harmonious 
relations with that of the Institution. 

The following is an exhibit of the number of observers during ISGG, 
as derived from Ihe list given in the appendix : British America, G; 
Mexico, 1 ; Central America, 3 ; Bermnda, 1 ; Alabama, 5 ; Arkansas, 
2; California, 4; Colorado, 1 ; Connecticut, 5 ; Delaware, 1 ; Florida, 
4; Georgia, 1 ; Illinois, 32; Indiana. 12; Iowa, 28; Kansas, 9; Kentucky, 
5; Maine, 11: Maryland, G; Massachusetts, 17; Michigan, 13; Minne- 



24 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

sota, 9 ; Mississippi, 5 ; Missouri, 9 ; Montana, 1 ; Nebraska, 3 ; New- 
Hampshire, 7 ; New Jersey, 14 ; New York, 35 ; North Carolina, 4; 
Ohio, 32 ; Oregon, 2; Pennsylvania, 23; Rhode Island, 2; South Caro- 
lina, 1 ,• Tennessee, 3 ; Texas, 3 ; Utah, 5 ; Vermont, 7 ; Virginia, 2 ; 
Washington, I; West Virginia, 2; Wisconsin, 15. 

The whole number of observers is 352 ; of these 67 are furnished 
with complete sets of instruments, including barometer, thermometer, 
psychrometer, and rain gauge ; 331 with thermometers, 137 with ba- 
rometers, 72 with psychrometers, and 227 with rain gauges, while tea 
report the face of the sky, direction of the wind, and casual phenomena 
without instruments. 

The income of the Institution has not been sufficient to furnish in- 
struments to observers, and hence from many of the stations the re- 
sults are not strictly comparable with one another. There are, how- 
ever, in almost every part of the country, one or more stations fur- 
nished with standard instruments, constructed by James Green, of 
New York, the observa tions with which may serve to determine the 
absolute variations of temperature, pressure and moisture at different 
localities, while the observations from the remainder give results 
comparable with themselves, and serve to determine the relative 
character of different seasons, as well as the data necessary for tra- 
cing the transmission of waves, as it were, of atmospheric disturb- 
ance with regard to wind, pressure and temperature. 

The Institution has endeavored to collect the records of all meteoro- 
logical observations which have been made on this continent, and has 
succeeded in obtaining a large amount of material, which will serve 
as the basis of an isothermal map of the country, as well as that of 
the peculiarities of climate of different sections. A portion of this, 
that, namely, which relates to the mean temperatures of years and sea- 
sons, was to have been published as the second part of toe second 
volume of "Meteorological Results," issued some years ago by order 
of Congress, but the pressure of business on the public printing 
office in consequence of the war has as yet prevented the completion 
of the work. It will probably be published during the next year, 
either by Congress or the Institution. 

Another portion of the material relates to long series of observa- 
tions made at particular places. Of thes« we may mention the fol- 
lowing : Those made by Prof. Caswell, at Providence, Rhode Island, 
for twenty-eight and a half years ; Dr. N. D. Smith, at Washington, 
Arkansas, for twenty years ; Prof. Cleavelaud, at Brunswick, Maine, 
for fifty-two years ; Dr. S. P. Hildreth, at Marietta, Ohio, for forty- 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 25 

one years; Prof. Z. Thompson, fit Burlington, Vermont, for twen- 
ty-six years; Samuel Rodman., of New Bedford, Massachusetts, for 
thirty-six years. 

Of the series, those of Caswell an-d Smith have been published in fuil, 
and those of Cleaveland and Hildreth are now in the hands of the prin- 
ter, and will form a part of the sixteenth volume of the Contribu- 
tions to Knowledge. 

The " Monthly Bulletin of the Agricultural Department" still con- 
tinues to contain a large amount of meteorological information derived 
from the reports of the Smithsonian observers. In preparing the 
materials for this a part of the time of Mr. Force, the assistant in 
charge of meteorology, has been occupied every month. This publica- 
tion still continues to be of value to the farmer, and of interest to 
our observers, since it gives them a ready means of comparing their 
observations with those made in other parts of the country. 

The anemometer, which for many years recorded the direction and 
intensity of the wind on the top of the high tower of the Institution, 
was destroyed with other instruments in the fire. As soon as the re- 
construction of this tower is completed, one of Osier's anemometers 
will be erected in the same place. The use of one of these instru- 
ments, belonging to the National Observatory, has been kindly granted 
to us by the Secretary of the Navy. A standard barometer, by New- 
man, belonging to the Institution, now in the possession of Professor 
Guyot, will also be placed, with other instruments, in the same tower, 
and the full series of observations resumed. 

The break in our series, however, is not of so much importance as 
at first sight it might appear, since a similar series has been kept up 
continually at the Observatory, which is a mile west of the Institution. 

Exchanges. — The extensive system of international, scientific and 
literary exchanges, so long carried on by the Institution, has been 
fully maintained during the year. Eighty-three boxes, containing 
1, 170 packages, were sent to our foreign agents in 1866, and over 
8,000 parcels received from them. These packages, as in former 
years, contain the publications of the Institution, public documents, 
transactions of societies and scientific works by individuals, besides 
specimens of natural history. 

Acknowledgments are again due to the various steamship, railroad 
and express companies mentioned in the last report who have for a 
number of years contributed materially to the advance of science by 
the free freights and important privileges granted by them to the 
Institution in carrying on its system of exchange. 



20 EEPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

The agents of the Institution still continue to be Dr. Felix Flugel, 
Leipsic, Gustave Bossange, Paris, Wm. Wesley. London, Feederic 
MULLER, Aufisterdam. 

Besides these gentlemen, Mr. James Swaim, now residing in Paris, 
has been appointed a special scientific agent for the purchase of phi- 
losophical apparatus and the transaction of other business, the duties 
of which he discharges gratuitously and to the great advantage of 
the Institution. We regret that notice of this fact was inadvertent- 
ly omitted in the last annual report. 

Explorations and collections. — As has been stated in previous reports, 
it is an important part of the operations of the Institution to en- 
courage, assist and organize explorations for such portions of North 
and South America as have not been thoroughly investigated in re- 
gard to physical geography, climate and natural history. During the 
past year this part of the operations has been prosecuted with un- 
abated energy, principally under the immediate supervision of Prof. 
Baird. 

Those which have been made directly or indirectly under the guid- 
ance of the Institution, and more or less at its expense, are as fol- 
lows : 

British America. — Explorations and collections of specimens by 
officers of the Hudson's Bay Company in ccutinuation of those of 
former years, especially those of Mr. Robert MacFarlane on the An- 
derson river, and of Mr. W. Brass, at Fort Halkett; Jas. Flett, at 
La Pierre's House; C. P. Gaudet, at Fort Good Hope; William L. 
Hardisty, at Fort Simpson; Strachan Jones, at Fort Rae; Jas. Lock- 
hart, at Resolution; John Reed, at Big Island; Jas. Sibbiston and 
Rev. Jas. MacDonald, at Fort Yukon, and Donald Gunn, west of Lake 
Winnipeg; also in Labrador by Messrs. Henry Connolly and Donald A. 
Smith. 

Russian America. — The explorations of the Collins extension of the 
Western Union Telegraph Company under Col. Charles L. Bulkley 
have been continued, and a large amount of interesting matter in re- 
gard to the ethnology, topography, and natural histor}' of the country, 
collected principally by the following gentlemen has been received: 

Colonel Bulkley, Captain Scammon, Dr. Fisher, Captain Sands, 
R. Kennicott, W. H. Dall, H. M. Bannister, J. T. Rothrock, Charles 
Pease, F. Bischoff, Lt. Davison, &c. Some of the collections in 
natural history were made by the members of this company in 
Kamtschatka and the western side of Behrino; straits. 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 27 

Pacific Coast of the United States. — The explorations of J. G. 
Swan at Neeah bay, Puget sound, have also been continued with in- 
teresting results, as also those of Dr. C. A. Canfield at Monterey. 
Other explorations have been those of W. F. Schwartz, San Luis 
Obispo, Dr. Elliot Coues, San Pedro, and W. H. D.ill, at Monterey. 

Rocky Mountain Region of the United States. — The explorations ol 
Dr. Goues and Dr. E. Palmer, in Arizona, mentioned in the last re- 
port, have been continued and completed. Dr. J. R. McKee, in New 
Mexico, Dr. Wernigk. in Colorado, have also made collections. 

Eastern United States. — The explorations by Dr. H. B. Butcher on 
the lower Rio Grande, at Laredo, Texas, and by Dr. Redfield Sharp, 
at San Antonio; J. T. Cieu, at the Louisiana Salt Mines of Petit Ause 
island: in Illinois, by Joel Reeves, Robert Ridgway and Professor 
Henr}'' Shimer, have all furnished interesting results. 

West Indies. — T4ie explorations here have been those of Charle3 
Wright, in Cuba; A. E. Younglove, in Hayti; Mr. Geo. LatimerandDr. 
Henry Bryant, in Porto Rico; Dr. Bryant, in the Bahamas; W. T. 
March, in Jamaica, and Mr. Allen, in Bermuda. 

Blexico. — The explorations in this country have been those of Col. 
A. J. Grayson about Mazatlan and on the west coast; Dr. Charles 
Sartorius and Mr. Floretin Sartorius, at Mirador; Professor Sumichrast 
and M. Botteri, at Orizaba; Dr. St rebel, at Vera Cruz. 

Yucatan. — The explorations in Yucatan of Governor Salazar, under 
direction of Dr. Arthur Schott, have been continued and completed. 

Explorations have been made in Honduras by Dr. H. Berendt and 
D. B. Parsons; in Guatemala, by Mr. Henry Hague, about San Ge- 
ronimo; in Nicaragua, by Dr. Earl Flint; in Costa Rica, by Dr. A. 
Yon Frantzius, Hon. C. N. Riotte, Julian Carmiol, Juan Cooper and 

A. Zeledon; in Panama, by Captain J. M. Dow, J. and T. Rhoads, 
Dr. Totten and Dr. J. P. Kluge; in the Sandwich Islands, by Mr. 
Valdimar Knudsen. In South America, explorations have been made 
and collections transmitted by Mr. W. H. Hudson, in Buenos Ayres; 
Mr. A. De Lacerda, at Bahia, and Hon. A. A. Burton, at Bogota, 

It should be stated in this connection that the expenses of the ex- 
ploration in Honduras of Dr. Berendt have been principally met by 
contribution from the Chicago Academy of Sciences, Philadelphia 
Academy of Sciences, Dr. Henry Bryant, and Messrs. Geo. W. Riggs, 
W. A. Haines, H. Yan Nostrand, C. M. Wheatly, R. L. Stuart. Prof. 

B. Silliman, Robt. L. Swift. J. H. Redfield and Thos. Bland. 

For a more particular account of the nature of the contributions in 
natural history and ethnology reference may be made to the lists 



28 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

and tables furnished by Prof. Baird in the Appendix. From these it 
appears that the niimber of entries during the year in the catalogues 
of specimens received is 7, 254, which is about the usual annual aver- 
age. Of these, nearly 4,500 were of birds. 

As has frequently been stated in previous reports, the collections 
which are the result of the explorations made by the Institution or 
by the voluntary contributions of individuals, are not, primarily, in- 
tended to enlarge its museum, but for distribution to all the principal 
museums in the world and to furnish the materials for special re- 
searches. In accordance with this policy a distribution of over one 
hundred thousand labelled specimens, including 53,166 species, has 
been made during the year 1866 to museums and colleges where they 
were required for comparative investigation or as materials for in- 
struction. Besides these distributions a large number of specimens 
have been intrusted to individuals for special stu^y, viz: the insects 
to Baron Ostensacken, Dr. G. H. Horn, Edw. Norton, esq., W. H. 
Edwards, esq., and H. UIke, esq.; the shells to P. P. Carpenter, 
esq., Thomas Bhmd, esq., Isaac Lea, esq., and George W. Tr3'^on, 
esq.; the minerals to Prof. T. Egleston; the plants to Dr. John Tor- 
ry; the bats to Dr. H. Allen; infusorial earths to S. A. Bailey, esq.; 
birds to Jno. Cassin, esq., Geo. N, Lawrence, esq., and D. G. Elliot, 
esq.; nests and eggs to Dr. T. M. Brewer; reptiles to Prof. E. D. 
Cope; fossils to Dr. Jos. Leidy and F. B. Meek, esq. 

In all cases in which specimens are presented to institutions or to 
individuals for investigation, full credit is required to be given to 
the name of Smithson for the benefits thus conferred. 

Library. — During the past year -the library has received from es 
change and donation — 
Volumes: 

Octavo 922 

Quarto 226 

Folio 95 

1,243 

Parts of volumes and pamphlets: 

Octavo 3, 123 

Quarto • 1,103 

Folio 283 

4,509 

Maps and charts 121 



Total 5,873 

Showing a large increase over the receipts during the previous year- 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 29 

The following are some of the larger donations received in 18GG: 

From the Genevese National Institute, Geneva, 17 volumes, com- 
pleting the "Memoirs" and "Bulletin;" 

Eoyal Statistical Bureau, Munich, " Contributions to the Statistics 
of the Kingdom of Bavaria," vols. 2-15; 

Society of Emulation for the study of the History and Antiquities 
of Flanders, Bruges — 23 volumes of their publications; 

Numismatic Society, London. "The Numismatic Chronicle," 21 
volumes; 

Ministry of Public Instruction, Paris, "Description of Egypt, pub- 
lished by order of Napoleon the Great," 21 volumes folio, and several 
other valuable works; 

Library of the Parliament, Melbourne, 51 official documents, 1st 
volume of "Plants Indigenous to Victoria, Australian Mosses, No. 1," 
and other works; 

Society of Agriculture, Sciences, Arts, and Belles-Lettres, of the 
Departmerrt of Indre and Loire, "Annals," 12 volumes* 

Friesland Society of History, Antiquities, and Philology, Leuwarden, 
10 volumes and 25 pamphlets; 

Government of the Netherlands, 34 volumes and 45 pamphlets; 

Belgian Entom,ological Society, Brussels, "Annals," vols. 1-S; 

University of Chili, Santiago, 10 volumes; 

Charles Kessler, Reading, Pa., "The Naturalist," vols. 1-22, 
1774-1787; 

Dr. G. J. Fisher, Sing Sing, N. Y., medical journals and othor 
medical books, 77 volumes; 

Dr. K. Koch, Berlin, 5 volumes and 336 pamphlets; 

Professor C. J. Tornberg, Lund, Sweden, 11 volumes and 8 
pamphlets. 

From the Royal Library of Dresden we have received a series of 
232 original discourses or theses and tracts, most of which were writ- 
ten by Luther, and the remainder by his contemporaries, and nearly 
all of which were published during the lifetime of the great reformer. 

These tracts were referred to Rev. Dr. Morris, librarian of the 
Peabody Institute of Baltimore, for a translation of the catalogue, to 
whom we are indebted for the following remarks in regard to them: 

"The majority of these brief treatises can be found in almost any 
entire edition of Luther's works, and are therefore not rare; but 
what renders this collection interesting to the bibliographer is, that 
they are all first impressions, and not reprints. The proofs were 
doubtless revised and corrected by his own hand, as most of them 

_ ^.-.- -^ 



30 EEPORT OF THE SECRETAEY. 

were printed at places where he resided. They present specimens 
of paper and printing which are very creditable to the artisans of 
that day, ranging as they do from 1518, the year after the Reforma- 
tion began, to 1546, the year of Luther's death. These writings have 
come to lis in the same type and paper in \vhich they were distributed 
by thousands over the land at the dawn of the Reformation. While 
the language in which they are written, both German and Latin, is 
not as refined as that employed by scholars of the present day, and 
while the pictorial illustrations are coarse, yet these productions show 
the extraordinary progress which the typographic art had already 
made in the early part of the 16th century. Many of them have the 
title pages ornamented with a broad margin of wood-cut figures, most 
of them mythological and grotesque, and all curious. They are speci- 
mens of the engraving of that day. exceedingly interesting to the 
student of the history of art, for these are undoubted originals, which 
collectors of ancient prints prize so highly. A few of them are un- 
skilfully illuminated, probably executed by some incipient artist, who 
tried his hand on these coarse and cheap wood-cuts. The subjects of 
the pamphlets are diverse and curious, and the titles of many of those 
M'hich are controversial, as was the general custom of that day, are 
expressed in language more forcible than refined." . 

Under the act of Congress mentioned in the last report, previously 
alluded to, the Smithsonian books have been transferred to one of the 
fire-proofrooms in the extension of the library of Congress, wdiere they 
will be catalogued under the direction of Mr. Spoflford, the librarian , and 
the large number of volumes in sheets will be bound at the government 
bindery. The continued new accessions to the library from foreign 
exchanges and otherwise are received and recorded at the Institution 
as formerly. The accessions from abroad do not alone consist of 
transactions of societies, but also, as has been shown in this and pre- 
vious reports, of some of the most costly publications of foreign gov- 
ernments, and rare duplicates in the older libraries of Europe. 

Correspondence. — A large amount of labor connected with the ope- 
rations of the Institution is devoted to correspondence. Besides 
those relating to official business, hundreds of letters are received in 
the course of a yeaj, containing inquiries relative to the various sub- 
jects on which the writers desire information. If these cannot be 
forthwith answered, without much research in the Smithsonian library, 
they are referred to our collaborators, who are experts in the difi"er- 
ent branches of knowledge, and who can readily supply trustworthy 
information in regard to the subjects within the range of their special 
studies. 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 61 

During the past year we have made references of this kind to the 
following gentlemen, viz : Dr. Torrey, of New York; Prof. Agassiz, 
Dr. Gray, and Prof. Wyman, of Cambridge; Dr. Leidy and Mr. Isaac 
Lea, of Philadelphia; Professors Dana, Whitney, Brush, and Newton, 
of New Haven; Drs. Woodward and Craig, of the Surgeon General's 
office; Prof. SchafFer and Mr. W. B. Taylor, of the Patent office; Ad- 
miral Davis and Prof. S. Newcomb of the Naval Observatory: and 
Mr. George Gibbs, and Mr. J. H. Lane of Washington. 

Investigations. — During the past year a considerable portion of my 
own time has been devoted to investigations connected with the rev- 
enue service, light- house board, and other branches of the govern- 
ment. These services, as well as those of a similar character in 
former years, have been entirely gratuitous, and may be considered 
in some degree as having tended to repay the care bestowed on the 
Smithson trust by the government in its character of guardian and 
trustee. 

Lectures. — Since the burning of the upper story of the building in 
which the lecture room was situated, the public lectures have been 
discontinued. I have given, however, a course on electricity to the 
telegraphic association of this city, and also accepted, last autumn, an 
invitation to deliver the opening course of lectures at the Peabody 
Institute, in Baltimore. I was induced to accept this invitation con- 
trary to my general habit, in order to present, from the experience 
gained in the management of the Smithsonian Institution, some sug- 
gestions which might be of importance in organizing the interesting 
establishment so liberally endowed by our distinguished countryman. 
The endowment of the Peabody Institute is $1,000,000, nearly double 
the original Smithson fund, and sufficient, if the trust be wisely ad- 
ministered, to render the favored city celebrated throughout the 
world as a centre of literature and science. But I trust I shall be 
pardoned for saying, that in the case of the organization of a new in- 
stitution, of which the purposes are not clearly defined, and which is 
entrusted to a board of trustees, it can scarcely be possible that the 
best course can be adopted at once. There will always be honest 
differences of opinion, and these will lead to compromises incom- 
patible with a unity of plan, giving rise to difficulties in the 
future. The wisest course, therefore, in such cases, is to proceed 
cautiously, and on no account to adopt a plan which cannot be modi- 
fied, or which shall call for any considerable expenditure of the prin- 
cipal of the endowment. I may, perhaps be allowed to say, that the 
publication of the remarks in full would probably be of importance in 



32 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

diffusing information derived from the experience of the Smithsonian 
Institution, especially wanted at this time, when so many new institu- 
tions are about to be organized ; but they would be out of place in 
this report, though they may be given in the appendix or elsewhere. 

Whittlesey on the Drift. — The following is an account of the paper 
on the drift before mentioned which has not yet been described. 

The term drift, as employed in geology, includes the collection of 
gravel, sand, clay, and stones occurring over portions of the conti- 
nent without stratification or order of arrangement, and which have 
evidently been transported and distributed without the agency of 
riveVs. For the study of this formation in the territory north of the 
Ohio river and east of the Mississippi to the national boundary, Mr. 
Wiiittlesey claims to have had special opportunities during the past 
twenty-five years. The length north and south of this area is about 
eleven degrees of latitude, from the 38° to the 49°, its breadth being 
quite irregular. Its eastern boundary is a line passing through the mid- 
dle of the system of North American lakes, and to the west it extends at 
least to the Lake of the Woods. Over this space he has found what he 
considers but one formation, belonging to the post-tertiary, wholly of 
fresh-water origin, no remains as yet having been found of a salt water 
character, while to the eastward of Lake Erie, in the valleys of Lakes 
Ontario and Champlain,and the River St. Lawrence, the shells which oc- 
cur are wholly marine. Further examination he supposes will show that 
the fresh- water formation overlaps the marine, and is consequently more 
recent. The thickness of the fresh-water drift is variable, in some 
places from 600 to 1,000 feet, though it seldom exceeds 200 or 300 
feet. The author uses the term glacial drift to describe this forma- 
tion as expressing what he conceives to be its origin in accordance 
with the theory originally proposed by Professor Agassiz, viz., an im- 
mense sheet of ice, at first principally confined to the pole of 
greatest cold, but gradually increasing its area by accumulations of 
snow in winter on its central part, and by the thawing in summer of 
the surface, the subsequent freezing and expansion of the infiltered 
water producing a slow but almost resistless motion outward in 
every direction from the centre. This sheet of ice, like the modern 
glacier, having fragments of hard stone imbedded in its lower sur- 
face, would furrow and grind the rocks underneath — would bear on 
its upper surface, and within its interior, boulders and fragments of 
rocks which fell on it in its passage through mountain gorges, or 
which it tore from their sides, and, in addition to these, would carry 
with it the materials eroded in its passage; and finally, on melting, 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. . 33 

would leave the whole in a condition identical with that in which the 
drift formation is found. This formation, according to the author, 
may be divided into three members, in the order of superposition, 
from the surface downward, composed as follows: The first of coarse 
sand, gravel, loam, and hard-pan, with large boulders from northern 
rocks, exhibiting little stratification. The second of sand and gravel, 
less coarse than the preceding, with irregular bauds of clay some- 
what laminated, and smaller boulders. The third of fine laminated 
sand, of marly clay of great thickness, of various colors, with few 
boulders and little gravel. Wherever a sufficient thickness of drift 
occurs these divisions can be readily traced, and always in the same 
order. The first occupies the highest points of land, and frequently 
lies upon the rock formation without the intervention of the other 
beds, and in it occur moraine hillocks and depressions intermingled 
with the underlying strata at different points, indicating the move- 
ment of ice, which, while it brought materials from a distance, 
ploughed up and pulverized the previously existing surface. 

This upper member of the drift contains the coarsest material and' 
the largest and most numerous boulders, a fact inexplicable on any 
other theory excepting that of their deposit by the melting of glaciers 
carrying on their surface the heavier masses. The surface is pitted 
with cavities extending below the general level ten, fifteen, and even 
a hundred feet, their outline being rudely circular, and their sides as 
steep as is compatible with the stability of the soil. In travelling 
through this region the explorer frequently finds these hollows so 
near together that he no sooner rises out of one than he is obliged to 
descend into another. They seldom contain water, but boulders are 
found at the bottom, on the sides, and on the surface around. In the 
prairie regions of southern Wisconsin, timber grows within the cavi- 
ties, as well as on the adjacent surface, in clumps, known as oak 
orchards. The formation of such a system of depressions of so uni- 
form a character, and over so large an extent of country, while the 
rocks beneath, wherever uncovered, are found polished and grooved, 
also indicates the movements and subsequent melting of large masses 
of ice. In various places there occur patches of boulders from among 
which the finer materials have been washed away. Near Twin Falls, 
on the Menomonee river, in Michigan, on the northern slope of a 
mountain, such a collection occurs nearly a mile across, covering the 
surface like a pavement with large masses smoothed and polished by 
attrition. Along the heights of land collections of boulders also fre- 
quently occur. After passing northward, above Lake Winnebago. 
* 3 s 66 



34 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

the portion of sand increases, and also the size and number of the 
boulders, which are mostly of igneous origin. 

The second member of the glacier drift is not as readily made out 
as the other two. In general it is thin, passing into the first member 
above, and into the third below. Its characteristics are the finer 
condition of the material and more distinct stratification in the alter- 
nate layers of clay and sand. It is seen in its greatest development 
at the Grand Sable of Lake Superior, east of Grand island, where the 
coarse sand forms a stratum of from three to four hundred feet in 
thickness, overlying a thin stratum of clay. The prominent moun- 
tains and dunes along the eastern shore of Lake Michigan belong to 
this member of the drift formation. 

The third member consists of the ash-colored, the red, and the blue 
laminated clays, the difference of color being probably caused by 
varying portions of oxide of iron. These strata are not, strictly 
speaking, formed of clay, but of finel}^ comminuted sand, marl, and 
oxide of iron, with alumina enough to cause adhesion. On the sum- 
mit of the land whence the streams flow northwardly into Hudson's 
bay, southerly into the gulf of Mexico, and southeasterly into Lake 
Superior, the three members of the drift period are conspicuously ex- 
hibited — the third occupying the lower level. On Lake Superior the 
lower member attains its greatest thickness. The rocks on which the 
glacial drift rests, wherever uncovered, exhibit markings and indica- 
tions of scouring and striae with variable distinctness, depending upon 
the capability of the rock to retain the impressions. In some cases 
the movement was parallel, or nearly so, to the strike of the strata, 
and in such instances sandstone beds have been carried away to &, 
considerable depth, leaving long, narrow ridges of material better 
able to resist the grinding action. The general movement, as indi- 
cated by the strise, was from the northeast to the southwest, the same 
as that observed in the northern part of Europe. In New England, 
markings of this kind on the rocks have been observed at 3,000 feet 
elevation, in Ohio at from 1,300 to 1,400 feet, and at Point Keewenaw, 
in Lake Superior, at from 1,400 to 1,600 feet. These elevations indi- 
cate the great thickness which the glacial ice must have attained. 
In various parts of the drift, boulders and muggets of copper occur, 
which, in some cases, have been transj^orted a locg distance south- 
ward. Those found near Lake Superior, which have not been carried 
far from their origin, are of great size, and not as much rounded by 
attrition as those found at a greater distance. One of the former, 
from the clay on the west fork of the Ontonagon river, now in the 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 35 

museum of the Smitlisonian Institution, weighs 3,000 pounds, pre- 
senting angular points. 

One of the characteristics which denotes the unity of the drift 
is the presence of wood, leaves and other vegetable matter. The im- 
bedded timber is the same throughout the formation and is similar to 
that of the present growth of a more northern latitude, consisting of 
pine, spruce, willow, and white cedar, the latter being most abundant. 
At Cleveland, Ohio, the entire trunk of a white cedar, tvventy feetin 
length, filled with proto-sulphide of iron, was found imbedded in the 
drift eighteen feet below the surface, and many wells in that city are 
rendered unfit for use by the layer of vegetation through which the 
water passes. 

Animal remains, such as those of the elephant, mastodon, and horse 
are found in the same formation, in addition to various varieties of 
fresh-water shells. 

Through the western countr}'- there are blufi"s and terraces com- 
posed of solid rock, but besides these there are others composed of 
boulders, gravel, hard-pan, clay, or sand. The former were the re- 
sult of geological causes more ancient than the drift, while- the latter 
are contemporaneous with this formation, and are probably due to 
parallel currents. What are commonly known as lake ridges, accord- 
ing to the author, are not ancient beaches, but the result of lateral 
currents distributing the drift. All the rivers and streams cut through 
these ridges and exhibit the drift clay frequently down to the rock 
below, while the beaches evidently belong to the alluvial period. 
Ancient lake ridges must not, therefore, be confounded with lake 
beaches. The distinctive feature of the latter is that they are narrow 
and steepest on the lake side, resembling terraces. 

In the prairie region of Illinois, Wisconsin, Iowa, and Missouri, the 
general surface is very uniform, but little elevated above the north- 
ern lakes. A rise of only twenty-six feet in Lake Michigan would 
turn its surplus waters across the summit into the Illinois river. Over 
a territory embracing Ohio, Indiana, Illinois, Iowa, and part of Ken- 
tucky, Tennessee, Missouri, Wisconsin, Michigan, and Canada West, 
there are no considerable elevations. This space is an extended 
basin with a rolling surface, in which glacial action, unobstructed in 
its movements, would tend to j)roduce but little change in the general 
topography, and therefore the position of valleys, rivers, and lakes 
is about the same at present as it was before the glacial period. 
The motion of thejce, however, must have removed a large portion 
of the broken fragments of the northern rocks to positions further 
south. The appearance would indicate that, as the glacial period 



36 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

drew towards its close, the transporting material changed from one in 
which ice predominated to a modified one of ice and water. 

Eemarks are also made in this paper on the encroachment of the 
water upon the land, as indicating the slow but constant changes to 
which the surface of our earth is subjected. The clay bluffs of the 
lakes are continually worn away by the action of springs, rains, winds, 
and waves. They are attacked at the base, partially undermined, 
and finally precipitated into the water with the trees and whatever 
may be resting upon them. In due time they are spread over the 
bottom of the lake, forming new strata to be, perhaps, investigated 
by future geologists. Lake Erie and Michigan, the shores of which 
are composed of drift clay, are filling up more rapidly than Lakes 
Huron and Superior, the coasts of which are more rocky. 

Another phenomenon noticed, is that of lines of boulders within 
and parallel to the shores of shallow lakes, presenting, in some cases, 
the appearance of a rude wall or fence of large stones. For example, 
in Mille lake, Minnesota, there are lines of this kind rising five and 
six feet above the water level, and formed of stones far too heavy to 
have been moved by the action of the waves. More than fifty years 
ago a similar appearance was described by President Dwight, of Yale 
College, as observed at Salisbury, Connecticut. The movement of 
the stones towards the shore was in this case clearly indicated by the 
troughs left in the bottom of the lake visible in clear water. The 
phenomenon is now satisfactorily referred to the expansion of ice in 
which the boulders are imbedded in winter. This takes place in 
every direction from the centre of the lake outward, and is exerted 
in the case of ice of considerable thickness with almost irresistible 
energy. The stones are carried forward, and on the thawing of the 
ice are left in their new position. 

The last section of the paper refers to examples of erosions, also 
referable to the movement of the ice of the glacial period. These 
are particularly exhibited in the great projection into Lake Superior 
from the southern shore called Point Keweenaw, in which are scooped 
out depressions, forming the basins of lakes, inlets, and harbors, ex- 
hibiting evidence of the direction and intensity of the transforming 
force, and it is probable that the shore line, and form of the bottom of 
the great lakes must have been modified by. the action of the same 
cause. This work is illustrated by a map of north America, a pro- 
file of the deposits from Lake Brie to the Lake of the Woods, and 
eleven wood cuts. 

Respectfully submitted, 

JOSEPH HENRY, 
Secretary Smithsonian Institute. 



APPENDIX 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 



REPORT OF THE ASSISTANT SECRETARY, SPENCER F. BAIRD, RELATIVE TO 
EXCHANGES, COLLECTIONS OF NATURAL HISTORY, ETC. 



During the past year 763 principal packages have been received at the In- 
stitution by the various channels of transportation, and 768 sent out from it — 
being a considerable increase over the numbers of last year. 

The principal statistics of the exchanges will be found in the following tables 
marked A, B, C, and D : 

A. 

Receipts of books, Spc., hy exchange in 1866. 
Volumes : 

Octavo 922 

Quarto 226 

Folio 95 

1, 243 

Parts of volumes and pamphlets : 

Octavo 3,123 

Quarto 1, 103 

Folio 283 

4,509 

Maps and charts 121 

Total o, 873 

The corresponding receipts for last year were 4,206, showing an increase 
of 1,667. 



38 



APPENDIX TO THE KEPOKT OF THE SECEETARY, 



B. 

Table sJiowing the statistics of the exchanges of the Smithsonian Institunon 

in 1866. 



Agent and country. 




03 
a, 

O (C 

a 


o 


.9 

03 . 

s 


9. " 

o p 


Dr. Felix Flugel, Leipsic— 

Sweden ........ . ... 


11 

5 
11 

1 

44 

3J1 

33 


21 

10 

12 
2 

49 
332 

38 
120 








Norway . . ... 
















Iceland .. . ... 
























Switzerland . ... . 








Special sending in May .... 


















Total 


416. 


584 


29 


203 


7,350 






Frederick Muller, Amsterdam — 

Holland 


45 
11 


53 
14 








Belgium . . 
















Total 


56 


67 


5 


35 


1,250 






Gustave Bossange & Co., Paris-^ 

France ... . . 


101 
59 

7 
3 


104 
61 

8 

4 

40 








Italy 








Spain 
















Special sending in May .... 


















Total 


80 


217 


15 


105 


3,750 




W. Wesley, London— 


186 
19 


207 
19 








Australia 
















Total 


205 


226 


12 


96 


3,000 




Rest of the world , 


70 


76 


22 


132 


2,800 






Grand total 


827 


1,170 


83 


571 


18, 050 





0. 

Addressed packages received by the Smithsonian Institution from parties in 
America for foreign distribution iji ISQQ. 

Number of packages. 
Albany f N. Y. — 

Dudley Observatory 125 

New York State Agricultural Society 72 

New York State HomcEopathic Society 10 

Prof. James Hall 46 

Ann Arbor, Mich. — 

Prof. A. Winchell 13 



REPOKT OF THE ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 39 

Boston, Mass. — 

American Academy of Arts and Sciences — ' 280 

Board of State Charities 10 

Boston Society of Natural History 231 

J. J. Bowditch 1 

Dr. B. A. Gould 46 

Dr. S. G. Howe ., 1 

Theodore Lyman 20 

Bvffalo, N. Y.— 

G.W.Clinton 1 

Cambridge, Mass. — 

Cambridge Observatory 101 

Harvard College c 20 

Museum of Comparative Zoology 913 

Nautical Almanac Office 52 

Prof H. J. Clark 25 

Prof. Asa Gray 12 

Chicago, III. — 

Chicago Academy of Sciences 102 

Columbus, 0/iio — 

Ohio State Board of Agriculture SS 

W. S. Sullivant 1 

Dorchester, Mass. — - 

Dr. Edw. Jarvis 53 

Hillsboro\ N. C— 

Dr. M.A.Curtis 1 

Iowa City, Iowa — 

State University of Iowa 12 

Janesville, Wis. — 

Institution for the Blind 125 

Lowell, Mass. — 

J. R. Francis 17 

New Haven, Conn. — 

American Journal of Science 27 

American Oriental Society ^ 5 

Prof. J. D. Dana 48 

Prof. E. Loomis 53 

New York — 

American Ethnological Society 6 

New York Lyceum of Natural History 114 

United States Sanitary Commission 400 

Thomas Bland 2a 

A. A. Julieu 9 

Baron Ostensacken 1 

Philadelphia, Penn. — 

Academy of Natural Sciences 184 

American Pharmaceutical Society 31 

Dr. John L. LeConte 9 

G. W.Tryon 53 



40 APPENDIX TO THE EEPOET OF THE SECEETAEY. 

Providence, R. I. — 

State of Rhode Island 6 

Rock Island, III. — 

B. D. Walsh... , 1 

San Francisco, Cal. — 

Prof. W.P. Blake 1 .: 15 

Dr. Newcomb 50 

St. Zdouis, Mo. — 

Academy of Sciences 165 

Dr. George Engelmann 30 

Dr. B. F. Shumard 9 

Dr. A. Wislizenus 9C 

Toronto, Canada — 

Canadian Institute 5 

Dr. C. J. Bethune 5 

Washington, D. C. — 

Census Bureau 4 

Surgeon General United States army 392 

Prof. Newcomb 85 

Dr. Wetherill 25 

Wilmington, Del. — 

W. M. Canby 2 

4, 137 



The preceding tables show a large increase over the numbers of 1865, there 
being a difference of 1,574. 



REPORT OF THE ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 



41 



D. 

Adartista pu,<.kages received by the Smithsonian Institution from Eurojje in 
1866 for distribution in America. 



ALBANY, NEW YORK. 

Albany Institute 

Dudley Observatory 

New York State A<!jricultural Society 

New York State Library 

New York State Medical Society 

New York State University 

State Cabinet of Natural History 

AMHERST, MASSACHUSETTS. 

Amherst College 

ANNAPOLIS, MARYLAND. 

United States Naval Academy 

ANN ARBOR, MICHIGAN. 

Observatory 

AUSTIN, TEXAS. 
State Library 

BALTIMORE, JIARYLAND. 

Maryland Historical Society 

State Library 

BLACKWELL'S island, new YORK. 

New York City Lunatic Asylum 

BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS. 

American Academy of Arts and Sci- 
ences - 

Cliristiau Examiner 

American Statistical Association 

Aaieric.tn Unitarian Association 

lio.ston Christian Register . ; , 

Boston Society of Natural History 

Bowditch Library 

Geological Survey of Massachusetts . 

Historical Socij.'ty of Massachusetts . 

New England Historic j-Genealogical 
Society 

North American Review , 

Prison Discipline Society 

Public Library 

State Library 

Technological Institute 

BRATTLEBORO', VERMONT. 
State Lunatic Asylum 



04d 
p. 



3 

10 

19 

28 

2 

2 

1 



15 



93 
2 
11 
3 
3 
197 
1 
1 
2 

2 
2 
2 
14 
6 
1 




BRUNSWICK, MAINE. 

Bowdoin College 

BURLINGTON, VERMONT. 

University of Vermont 

CAMBRIDGE, MASSACHUSETTS. 

American Association for Advance- 
ment of Science 

Astronomical Journal 

Harvard College 

Museum of Comparative Zoology 

National Academy of Sciences 

Observatory of Harvard College 

Perkins' Institution for the Blind.... 

CHARLESTON, SOUTH CAROLINA. 

Astronomical Observatory 

Elliott Society of Natural History... 
Society Library 

South Carolina Historical Society ... 

CHARLOTTESVILLE, VIRGINIA. 
University of'Virginia 

CHICAGO, ILLINOIS. 

Chicago Academy of Sciences 

CINCINNATI, OHIO. 



Astronomical Society 

Dental Register 

Mercantile Library Association 
Observatory 



COLUMBIA, MISSOURI. 

Geological Survey of Missouri... 
COLUMBIA, SOUTH CAROLINA. 



South Carolina College 
State Library 



COLUMBUS, OHIO. 
Ohio State Board of Agriculture. 
CONCORD, NEW HAMPSIHRE. 



New Hampshire Historical Society. 
State Lunatic Asylum 



42 APPENDIX TO THE EEPOET OF THE SECKETAKl'. 

D. — Addressed packages received hy the Smithsonian Institution, <§rr. — Contin'd. 






DES MOINES, IOWA. 

State Library 

DETROIT, MICHIGAN. 

Michigan State Agricultural Society.. 

FRAKKFORT, KENTUCKY. 

Geological Survey of Kentucky 

GAMBIER, OHIO. 

Kenyon College 

GEORGETOWN, D. C. 
Georgetown College 

HALIFAX, NOVA SCOTIA. 

Nova Scotian Institute of Natural Sci- 
ences 

HAMPDEN SYDNEY, VIRGINIA. 

Hampden Sydney College 

HANOVER, NEW HAMPSHIRE. 

Dartmoutli College : 

HARRISBURG, PENNSYLVANIA. 

State Library 

State Lunatic Hospital 

HARTFORD, CONNECTICUT. 

Trinity College 

Yonng'Men's Institute 

HUDSON, OHIO. 

Western Eeserve College 

IOWA CITY, IOWA. 

l<y-x. State University 

JACKSON, MISSISSIPPI. 

Sta',^.Libnvy 

JACKSONVILLE, ILLINOIS. 

Illinois State Lunatic Hospital 

Institution for Blind 



23 



10 



27 



15 



JANESVILLE, WISCONSIN. 

Institution for Blind 

JEFFERSON CITY, MISSOURI. 
Historical Society of Missouri 

KINGSTON, JAMAICA. 

! Jamaica Society of Arts 

LEXINGTON, KENTUCKY. 

Eastern Lunatic Asylum 

LITTI-E ROCK, ARKANSAS. ' 



State Library — 
State University 



LOUISVILLE, KENTUCKY. 
University 

MILLEDGEVILLE, GEORGIA. 



Oglethorpe University 
State Library 



MONTGOMERY, ALABAMA. 
State Library 

MONTPELIER, VERMONT. 
State Library 

MONTREAL, CANADA. 



Geological Survey of Canada. 
Natural History Society 



NASHVILLE, TENNESSEE. 



State Library 

State Lunatic Asylum . 



NEW BRUNSWICK, NEW JERSEY. 

Geological Survey of New Bruns- 
wick 



NEW HAVEN, CONNECTICUT. 

American Journal of Science and Arts 

American Oriental Society 

Connecticut Academy of Sciences.. 
Yale College 



REPORT OF THE ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 46 

D. — Addressed jific/iages received hy the Smithsonian Institution, ^r — ContiuM. 



NEW ORLEANS, LOUISIANA. 

New Orleans Academy of Sciences. -. 

NEW YORK, NEW YORK. 

American Ethnological Society 

American Geographical and Statistical 

Society j 

American Institute 

Astor Library 

Austrian Consulate 

Columbia College 

Mercantile Library Association 

New York Academy of Medicine 

New York Christian Inquirer 

New York Lyceum of Natural History. 
United States Sanitary Commission . . 
University 

OLYMPIA, WASHINGTON TERRITORY, 

State Library 

OMAHA, NEBRASKA. 
State Library 

OXFORD, MISSISSIPPI. 
University of Mississippi 

PENFIELD, GEORGIA. 

Mercer University 

PHILADELPHIA, PENNSYLV.\NIA. 

Academy of Natural, Sciences 

American Journal of Conchology 

American Pharmaceutical Association 

American Philosophical Society 

Central High School 

Entomological Society 

Frankhn Institute 

Girard College 

Historical Society of Pennsylvania. .. 

Hospital for Insane 

Philadelphia Library Company 

Pennsylvania Horticultural Society .. 
Pennsylvania Institution for Blind . . . 
Wagner Free Institute 

PORTLAND, MAINE. 

Portland Society of Natural History . . 

PRINCETON NEW JERSEY. 

Princeton College 






23 



25 
8 
7 
1 
4 
2 
3 
2 

52 
1 
3 



131 
1 
9 
59 
1 
8 
16 
1 
4 
1 
1 
7 
1 
2 



18 



PROVIDENCE, RHODE ISLAND. 

Brown University 

Secretary of State 

QUEBEC, CANADA. 

Literary and Historical Society of 
Quebec 

RALEIGH, NORTH CAROLINA. 

State Library 

RICHMOND, VIRGINIA. 

Historical Society of Virginia 

State Library 

SACRAMENTO, CALIFORNIA. 

State Library 

ST. JOHN, NEW BRUNSWICK. 

Natural History Society 

ST. LOUIS, MISSOURL 

Deutsches Institut zur Beforderung 

der Wissenschaften 

St. Louis Academy of Sciences 

University 

SALEM, MASSACHUSETTS. 

Essex Institute 

SAN FRANCISCO, CALIFORNIA. 

California Academy of Natural Sci- 
ences r 

Geological Survey of California 

S.WANNAH, GEORGL\. 

Georgia Historical Society 

SPRINGFIELD, ILLINOIS. 
Illinois State Agricultural Society. .. 

STAUNTON, VIRGINIA. 
Western Lunatic Asylum 

STOCKTON, CALIFORNIA. 

California State Lunatic Hospital . . . 






44 APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

D. — Addressed 2>(ic1iages rtccived by the Smithsonian Institution, 8fc. — Contin'd. 



o to 



^1 



TAUNTON, MASSACHUSETTS. 

State Lunatic Asylum 

TORONTO, CANADA. 



Canadian Institute . 

Observatory 

University College 



WASHINGTON, D. c. — Continued. 



TUSCALOOSA, ALABAMA. 

University of Alabama 

UTICA, NEW YORK. 



Ordnance Bureau 

Secretary of the Interior 

Secretary of the Treasury 

Secretary of War 

Topographical Bureau 

Treasury Department 

United States Coast Survey 

United States Naval Observatory 

United States Patent Office 



American Journal of Insanity — 
New York State Lunatic Asylum. 

WASHINGTON, D. C. 



Bureau of Ordnance and Hydrography 

Census Bureau 

Department of Agriculture 

Library of Congress 

Medical Department 

Navy Department 



2 
3 
3 
3 
32 
2 



WATERVILLE, MAINE. 

Waterville College 

WILLIAMSBURG, VIRGINIA. 

Eastern Lunatic Asylum 

WINDSOR, NOVA SCOTIA. 

King's College 

AVORCESTER, MASSACHUSETTS. 
American Antiquarian Society... 



2 
1 
1 

2 
1 

8 

16 

72 

136 



Total addresses of institutions. 
Total addresses of individuals. 



169 

160 



Total number of parcels to institutions 2, 205 

Total number of parcels to individuals 498 



329 



2,703 



ADDITIONS TO THE COLLECTIONS OF THE INSTITUTION IN 1866. 

The total number of distinct donations in 1866 amounts to 220 ; the number 
of donors being 168. This exhibits a considerable increase over the figures of 
1865, -^rhich are 155 and 102, respectively. The number of different packages 
received was 318, as compared with 257 of 1865. 

The precise character of the collections received will be best gathered from 
the list of donations given further on. As will be seen they come from many 
different localities throughout the continent of America ; the most important, 
however, being those from the officers of the Hudson's Bay Company, in Arctic 
America. 

WORK DONE IN MUSEUM AND COLLECTIONS IN 1866. 

Much labor has been expended during the year in cleaning the specimens on 
exhibition, and otherwise repairing the damage of the fire of 1865. The diffi- 
culty of preventing the rain and melted snow from coming through the tempo- 
rary roof has caused great trouble from mould, requiring energetic measures of 
relief No mounted spceljiens have been added to the collection. 

Ab usual the colleclions received have been regularly entered and catalogued. 
The following table-shows what has been done in this respect: 



REPORT OF THE ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 



45 



Table sJioicing the entries in the record hooJcs of the Smithsonian Institution in 

1865 and 1866. 



Class. 


1865. 


1866. 


Skeletons and skulls 


6, 609 
8,416 

40, 554 
6, .544 
5, 588 
9, 9:59 
1,287 

18,10.-? 
2, 725 
110 
5, 907 
4, 940 
1,125 


7 100 


Mammals 


8; 685 

45, 000 

6,582 

5, 591 

10 400 


Birds 


Reptiles 


Fishes 


Eggs of birds 


Crustaceans 


1 , 2S7 


MoUusks 


18 500 


Radiates 


2 725 


Annelides 


110 


Fossils 


5, 920 
4 941 


Minerals 


Ethnological specimens 


2, 260 



Total 



111,847 



119,101 



The comparison of the two columns shows that the number of entries during 
the year in the catalogues of specimens amounts to l,2rA, about the usual an- 
nual average. Of birds alone the entries were nearly 4,500. 

The following table exhibits the distribution of duplicate specimens in 1866, 
as compared Avith previous years : 

Approximate table of distribution of duplicate specimens hy the Smithsonian 
Institution to the end o/'lS66. 



Class. 



In 1865. 



Total to end 
of 1865. 



1866. 



Total to end of 
1866. 



Osteology 

, Mammals 

Birds 

Reptiles 

Fishes 

Eggs of birds 

Shells* ..9 

Radiates 

Crustaceans 

Marine invertebrates generally 

Plants 

Fossils 

Minerals and rocks 

Ethnology 



1 

21 

233 

74 

750 

893 

5, 780 



1 

33 

1,038 

126 

1,200 

2,421 

11,086 



200 

10,000 

2, 224 

250 



550 
12, 975 
5,319 

600 



64 

770 

7,497 

1,631 

2,393 

3,603 

18,212 

551 

1,013 

1,800 

10, 000 

2,971 

1,321 

58 



64 

1,543 

11,530 

2,591 

5,149 

9, 162 

59, 663 

727 

2,516 

5, 060 

12, 975 

7,557 

5, 554 

58 



40 

24 

582 

10 

1 

96 

49, 200 



40 

31 

756 

18 

1 

217 

102, 551 



38 
3,058 



92 
5, 328 



92 



104 

794 
8,079 
1,641 
2, 394 
3, 699 
67,412 

551 
1,013 
1 , 838 
13, 058 
2,971 
1,346 

150 



104 

1,574 

12,286 

2, 609 

5,150 

9,379 

162,214 

727 

2,516 

5, 152 

18,303 

7 557 

5,579 

150 



Total distribution. 



20, 426 



35, 349 



51,884 



124, 149,53, 166 



109, 151 



105, 050 



233, 300 



* Of shells 390 sets were made up, and distributed to over 100 different institutions. 

From the table it will be seen that the distribution of specimens in 1866 has 
amounted to nearly as much as in all previous years put together, the number 
of species being, indeed, greater. This is due to the extensive and final distri- 
bution of shells of the United States exploring expedition, &c. 



46 APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

The following assignment of Smithsonian materials for investigation or con- 
servation has been made during the year 1866 : 

Dr. H. Alien, Philadelphia. — Collections of cheiroptera, especially those 
gathered by Dr. Cones in Arizona. 

/S. A. Bailey, Utica — Specimens of infusorial earths. 

Thomas Bland, New York. — Collections of land, shells, made by Mr. Charles 
Wright in Cuba, Mr. Ftrebel in Mexico, Mr. Stearns and Dr. Flint in Nicaragua. 

Dr. T. M. Brewer, Boston. — Nests and eggs of American slender-billed oscine 
birds. 

Dr. P. P. Carpenter, Montreal. — Collections of shells, made by Mr. John 
Xantus at Manzanillo, Messrs. "W. H, Dall and Dr. C.A Canfield at Monterey, 
California, James G. Swan in Puget sound, and various other west coast series. 

John Cassin, Philadelphia. — Icteridse of the general Smithsonian collection. 

Prof. E. D. Cope, Philadelphia. — Reptiles collected by Mr. D. B. Parsons at 
Belize, Dr. A. Schott in Yucatan, Mr. Kennicott and others in Nicaragua, Prof. 
Sumichrast in Mexico, and Mr. A. E. Younglove in Hayti. 

W. H. Edwards, NeAvburgh. — Lepidoptera, collected in Russian America, 
by the Russian telegraph expedition, by Drs. Coues and Palmer in Arizona, 
and Mr. Botteri and Prof. Sumichrast in Mexico. 

Prof. Thomas Egleston — All the unlabelled boxes of minerals. 

D. G- Elliot, New York. — Various species of North American birds, to be 
figured in his work. 

Dr. G. H. Horn, Philadelphia. — Various exotic coleoptera. 

Isaac Lea, Philadelphia. — Mexican and other unionidse. 

R. Ostensacken, New York. — Mexican diptera, collected by Mr. Botteri. 

Edward Norton, Farmington, Conn. — Hymenoptera, collected in Mexico by 
Prof. Sumichrast. 

Dr. Joseph Leidy, Philadelphia. — Various specimens of fossil mammal re- 
mains. 

George N. Ijawre?ice, New Yo.rk. — Costa Rican and other birds. 

Dr. John Torrcy, New York. — Plants of western America, collected by Mr. 
Brydges, and other botanical specimens. 

George W. Tryon, Philadelphia. — Melaniadse of the United States and 
Mexico. 

H. TJlke, Washington. — Coleoptera, collected by the Russian telegraph ex- 
pedition. 

ADDITIONS TO THE COLLECTIONS OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION 

IN 1866. 

AJchurst, John. — Skin of mouse, Brooklyn. 

Aldrich, Mr. — Rattlesnake in alcohol, from Maryland. ^ 

Allen, C. M. — Series of birds breeding in Bermuda. 

Ayres, Dr. W. O. — Types of California fishes. 

Bannister, H. — (See Bulkley.) 

Beadle, Rev. E. R. — Fossil echinoderms from desert of Sinai, and recejit shells. 

Bell, J. G. — Skins of South' American birds. 

Berendt, Dr. II. — Two boxes zoological collections from Belize. 

Bland, Thomas. — Fifty species West Indian land shells. 

Boardman, G. A. — Box of birds from New Brunswick. 

Bode, Mrs. — Skins of South American birds. 

Botteri, M — Birds and mammals of Mexico. 

Bradford, U. S. A., Br. G. H. — Encrinite from New Mexico. 

Brass, W. — Zoological collections from Fort Halkett. 

Brevoort, J. C. — Specimen of Tragulus from Java; died in captivity. 

Brigham ^ Mann, Messrs. — Series of Hawaiian plants. 



REPORT OF THE ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 47 

Bryan, O. N. — Albino blackbird, and fossils from Prince George county, Md. 

Bryant, Dr. Henry. — Birds of Belize and Bahia 

Brydges, Mrs. — Box of plants collected in Chile and Bolivia by Mr. Brydgeg. 

Bulkley, Colonel C. S. — Collections of Russian telegraph expedition, in various 
departments of natural history, made by Robert Kennicott, Dr. Fisher, Cap- 
tain Sands, Captain Scammon, W. H. Dall, Henry Bannister, and J. F. Roth- 
rock. 

BulMey, Colonel C. S. — Tusk of mammoth from Behring straits. 

Butcher. Dr. H. B. — Collection of birds, &c., of the Lower Rio Grande, Texas. 

Canjield, Dr. G. A. — Collection of birds, eggs, and marine invertebrates of 
California. 

Carmiol, J. — Birds and butterflies of Costa Rica. 

Clarke, O. — Silicious cinder from burning of wheat bran. 

Chu, J. F. — Large masses of rock salt, portions of tusks and teeth of fossil ele- 
phant, and pieces of cane-matting found below the elephant remains, at a 
depth of thirteen feet, and just above the salt. From Petit Anse island, Ver- 
million- bay, Louisiana. 

Chicago Academy of Sciences. — Specimens of Amhlystoma luridum. 

Chute, R. — Infusorial earth, St. Anthony's Falls. 

Collier, D. C. — Chalk from a bluff seventy-five feet high, on the Smoky Hill 
river, Colorado. 

Col/ins, Colonel W. O. — Skull and horns of Cervus macrotis^ and dress of In- 
dian chief, from Fort Laramie. 

Connolly, Henry. -^Skin^ and eggs of birds from Labrador. 

Cooper, Dr. J. G. — Hesperomys californicus, and skin of hammer-head shark, 
from California ; skull of Indian from Santa Catalina. 

Cooper, Juan. — Skins of birds of Costa Rica. 

Copenhagen, Royal Zoological Museum. — Nine specimens of skins of North 
European seals. 

Corse, Mr. — Two bottles reptiles. Fort Tejon. 

Coues, U. S. A., Dr. S. E — Four hundred skms of birds, and other collections, 
from Arizona and California. 

Creamer, David — Lignite from near Baltimore. 

Curds, Dr. M. A. — Skins of Sorcx and Hespcromys. 

Dall, W. H — Shells collected at Monterey, and types of Helix chersonellu. 

Dall, W. /J.— (See Bulkley.) 

Darby, Dr. J. E. — Mclaniadce from Tennessee river. 

Davis, Henry. — Fresh-water shells from Iowa. 

Dean, Henry C. — Gray fox, ( Valpes virginianus,) in flesh. 

Dolbcch, James. — Gold-bearing quartz from Great Falls of Potomac. 

Dorman, O. M. — Shells, Michigan. 

Dorr, R. R. — Nest of Geothl ypis trirJias and insects. 

Dou\ Captain J. M. — Zoological specimens from Panama. 

Dow, CajJtain J. M. — (See Totten.) 

Dresden, Royal Mineralogical Museum of. — (Through Professor H. B. Gei- 
nitz.) two boxes of fossils and minerals. 

Ellsicortk, Captain E. D. — Piece of oak from the hull of Congress Galley, sunk 
in Lake Chainplain, 1776, near town Panton, Vermont. 

Engchnann, Dr. Geo. — Head of surf duck : Pelionetta perspicillata. 

Fisher, Dr. — (See Bulkley.) 

Flett, James. — Zoological collection from Fort Good Hope, Arctic America. 

Flint, Dr. Earl. — Birds, shells, insects, and plants from Nicaragua. 

Foreman, Dr. Ed. — Salamander from Maryland. 

Foster, Hon. L. F. S. — Scalp of Navajo chief Ganado Blanco, from Fort Sum- 
ner, New Mexico. 

Frantzius, Dr. A. Von. — Skin of birds of Costa Rica. 



48 APPENDIX TO THE EEPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

Gatchell, Dr. H. T. F. — Dried toad from Kenosha, Wisconsin. 

Gaudet, Charles P. — Zoological collection from Peel's river, Arctic America. 

Geinitz, Professor H. B. — (See Dresden.) 

Gilpin, Dr. — Skin of Sorex^ Halifax. 

Glover, Professor T. — Two mounted birds. 

Goss, B. F. — Skins o1 Puitliroden and Arvicola, Kansas. 

Grayson, Colonel A. J. — Box of birds of Mazatlan. 

Grier, Colonel. — Scale of fish from Loess, near Vicksburg. 

Gruher, Ferd. — Box of birds of California, and egg of " Mexican wreu.' 

Gundlach, Dr. J.- — Caereha and Myiadestes in alcohol, from Cuba. 

Gunn, Donald. — Zoological collections from lakes west of Lake Winnipeg. 

Haldeman, Professor S. S. — Three boxes of fossils invertebrata, and types of 
American fresh-water shells. 

Hardest//, W. L. — Ethnological and other collections from Fort Simpson. 

Harper, Professor L. — Geratites americanus, from Alabama. 

Hawon, F. — Box of grasshoppers. Fort Leavenworth. 

Hayes, Dr. I. I. — Skin of walrus in salt. 

Hagtie, Henry. — Box of birds, San Geronemo, Guatemala. 

Heade, M. J. — Head of Savannah blackbird [CrotopJiaga sulcirostris,) Virgin 
bay. 

Hepburn, Jas. — Birds of Nicaragua. Box of birds and eggs, California. 

Hill, M. S. — Specimens of 17-year locust, Ohio. 

Hubbard, Dr. — Specimens of Helix blandii, from Cherokee nation. 

Hubbard, tScimuel. — Keg of alcoholic specimens, and nest of Mygale, from Cal- 
ifornia. 

llges a7id Fauter. — Skins of South American birds. 

Jeioctt, Colonel E. — Ancient pottery, from Chiriqui. 

Jones, Strachan. — Zoological collection from Fort Yukon and Fort Rae. 

Kelsey, S. C. — Living spider from Nashville. 

Kennicott, Robert. — (See Bulkley.) 

Kluge, Dr. — Jar of Crustacea from Aspinwall. 

Knudson, Valdeniar. — Collection of birds from the Sandwich Islands. 

Krider, John. — Collection of mounted hawks. 

Latimer, George. — Pair of living Loxigilla portoricensis from Porto Rico. 

Lewis, M. — Pachnolite from Greenland. 

Little, Major T. E. — Skull and vertebral column of mink, [Putorius vison.') 

Lochhart, James. — Zoological collection from Great Slave lake. 

London, Royal College of Surgeons. — Two mounted sterna of birds. 

MacDonald, R. — Zoological collections from the Eocky mountains west of the 
Lower Mackenzie. 

McDowell, US. A., Major General. — (See Wallen.) 

MacFarlane, Robert. — Thirty-five boxes of zoological, ethnological and other 
collections from the Arctic coast of America, between the mouths of the 
Mackenzie and Coppermine rivers. 

McKee, U. S. A. Dr. J. R: — Skin of Melcagris^mexicana from New Mexico. 

Magruder, Miss. — Large moth from Washington. 

Mann. — (See Brigham and Mann.) 

March, W. T. — Collection of birds and shells of Jamaica. 

Mayberry, Dr. E. — Arvicola and osteological specimens from Martha's Vine- 
yard. 

Merrich, Mr. — Stone arrowheads from Long Island. 

Michener, Dr. E. — Sterna of birds. 

Neufchdtel Zoological Museum. — Twenty-seven species of birds, types of 
Tschudi, Fauna Peruane. 

Palmer, Dr. S. — Insects, plants, and fossils of Arizona. 

Parsons, D. B. — Series of turtles from Belize. 



REPORT OF THE ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 49 

Parsons, J. jff.— Fossil shell from New York. 

Pease, U. S. A., Captain W. B. — Two specimens of Sesia, Texas. 

Philadelphia Academy of Natural Sciences. — Six mounted birds in exchange. 

Portland Katural History Society — Series fresh-water and land shells of Maine. 

Potts, John. — Liirge living motli from Washington. 

Prentiss, Dr. D. W. — Skin and skeletons of birds. 

PumpeUy, R. — Two boxes of shells from China and Japan, 

Putnam, F. Tl'. — Gasterosteus Wheatlandii, from Salem. 

Randall, F. A. — Five living Menopovia Allegheniensis. 

Reeves, Mr. and Mrs. Joel. — Eggs of birds from Calumet marshes, Illinois. 

Regenhofer, Dr. — (See Vienna.) 

Rhoads, J. — Collection of birds of Panama. 

Ridgway, A. E. — Monstrous chicken, 

Ridgway, Robert. — Box of nest and eggs of birds, Illinois. 

Ried, John. — Zoological collection from Great Slave lake. 

Riotte, C. N. — Antiquities from Costa Rica. 

Roome, J. H. — Porpoise skull and bird skins. 

Roihrock, J. T.— (See BulJcley.) 

Royall, Jos. — Marl from Vicksburg. 

Salazar, Governor. — Two boxes of zoological collections made by Dr. A. Shcott 

in Yucatan. 
Salem, Essex Institute. — Head of Diomedea cuhninata. 
Samuels, E. A. — Goshawk, {Asfur airicapillus,) in flesh. 
Sands, Captain — (See Bulkley.) 
Sauter. — (See Ilges.J 
Sartorius, Dr. Charles. — Zoological collections from the vicinity of Merador. 

Mexico. 
Sartorius, Florentin. — Collections of birds from near Merador, Mexico. 
Scammon, Captain. — (See Bulkley.) 
Schavfuss, L. W. — JEtherea from New Grenada, and four types of new co- 

leoptera. 
Sch.ee, Dr. H. M. — Box of shells, Iowa. 
Schott, Dr. A. — (See Salazar.) 
Schicartz, W. F. — Birds and eggs, California. 
Sclater, Dr. P. L. — Skin of Peucoia boucardi. 
Shaffer, D. H. — Box of living ferns. 
Sharp, U. S. A., Dr. Redford. — Specimens of reptiles, insects, &c., in alcohol, 

from Texas. 
Sibbiston, James. — Zoological collections from Fort Youkon. 
Siler, A. L. — Skin of Centia rubrizona, Utah. 
Skidmore, M. — Heads of ducks. 
Slagle, M. — Box of eggs of birds. 
Smith, Donald A. — Five skins of Labrador birds. 
Smith, W. — Living horned owl, f Bubo virginianus.) 
Stearns, R. E. C. — Shells from Nicaragua, California, and South America. 
Steindachner. Dr. F. — (See Vienna.) 
Stickney, Mr. — Starch made in Florida from seeds of coontee, (Zamia integri- 

folia.) 
Strebel, Dr. M. — Box of shells, Vera Cruz. 

Sumichrast, Professor F. — Birds, mammals, and alcoholic specimens of Mexico. 
Swan, J. G. — Indian curiosities and zoological specimens from Puget sound. 
Tiffany, Rev. C. C — Bottle reptiles, Arabian desert. 
Totten, Dr. G. F. — Skeleton of Procyon cancrivora, Aspinwall. 
Tot ten. Dr. G. F., through Captain J. M. Dow .—Skeleton of Elasmognathus 

Baird.ii from Panama railroad. 
4 s 66 



50 APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

Vienna Zoological Museum., througli Dr. Regenhofer, — Series of Austrian Lep- 
idoptera. 

Vienna Zoological Museum, througli Dr. F. Steindaclmer. — Series of European 
fishes in alcohol. 

Vuille, W. — Skins and eggs of birds of California. 

Wallen, U. S. A., Colonel H. D. — Skin of Heloderma Tiorridum, Arizona ; re- 
ceived through Major General Irvin McDowell. 

Wallis, J. Willie — Skin of albino swallow, from Bladensburg. 

Warren, General G. K. — Mounted head of Elk. 

Watt, D. A. — Fishes from St. Lawrence river. 

Weeds, U. S. A., Dr. Ja?nes F. — Living horned frog fPhrynosoma orhiculare,j 
New Mexico. 

Wernigk, Dr. — Zoological collections, Colorado and Montana. 

Woltz, T. N. — Eggs of pigeons. 

Woodward, R. B. — Mounted birds of California. 

W>-ig7it, Charles. — Shells and insects of Cuba 

You7ig, John F. — Re?nora, or sucking fish, from Potomac river, 

Younglove, A. E. — Box of birds and reptiles, Hayti. 

Zeledon, A. — Skins of birds of Costa Rica. 



LIST 



METEOROLOGICAL STATIONS AND OBSERVERS OF THE 
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION FOR THE YEAR 1866. 



BRITISH AMERICA. 



Name of observer. 



Acadia College 

Connolly. Henry 

Magnetic Observatory. 

Murdock, O 

O'Donoghue, John 

Rauklii, Colin 



Station. 



Wolfville, Nova Scotia 

Winowkupa. Labrador 

Toronto, Canada West 

St. J^>hD, New Brunswick.. 

St. Anne. Canada East 

Michipicoton, Canada West . 



45 OG 



43 39 
4.) IG 
47 24 
47 56 



G4 25 



79 21 
6(S 03 
70 05 
85 06 



flO& 
135 
175 
660 



A 

B. T . . . 

A 

A 

B. P. T 
B. T... 



a> 



MEXICO. 



Sartorius, Dr. Charles 



Mirador, Vera Cruz. 



3,600 



12 



CENTRAL AMERICA. 



Frantzins, Dr. A... 

Riotte, C. N 

Klug6, J. P., M. D. 



San Jos6, Costa Rica 
San Jos6, Costa Rica 
Aspiuwall 



9 54 
9 54 
9 23 



84 06 
84 06 
79 53 



3,772 

3,772 

6 



A.... 

T. R. 
A.... 



BERMUDA. 



Royal Engineers, (in tho 
Koyal Gazette.) 



Centre Signal Station, St. George's. 



* A signifies Barometer, Thermometer, Psychrometer, and Rain Gauge. B signifies Barometer. T signifiea 
Tliermometer. P signifies Psychrometer. K signifies Rain Gauge. N signifies uo inutrument. 
t Above Lake Ontario. 



52 



METEOROLOGICAL OBSEEVEKS. 



List of meteorological stations and ohscrvers, Sfc. — Continued. 

ALABAMA. 



Name of observer. 


Station. 


County. 


■g 

1 


6 

'So 
a 

_o 

1 


1 

3 


a 

S 

■1 


"Si 


Comette, A., S. J 


Spring Hill 

Moulton 

Moulton 

Bon Secour. 

Havana 




o / 
30 41 
34 32 
34 36 


o / 

88 09 
87 25 
87 25 


Feet. 
157 
643 
643 


T. R.... 

A' 

B. T. R.. 

T 

T.R.... 


1 


Harris, Andrew J 

Peters, Thomas M 

Vankirk, W. J 


Lawrence 

Lawrence 


5 
4 
3 


Tutwiler, H . .. 




32 50 


87 46 


500 


7 









ARKANSAS. 



Russell, 0. F 




Phillipps 


34 33 


90 10 




T. R.... 
T 


12 




Fort Smith 


1 

















CALIFORNIA. 



Ayres, W. O., M. D 

Canfield, Colb't A., M. D. 
Logan, Thomas M., M. D 
Smith, Mrs. M. D 



,San Francisco - . 

Monterey 

Sacramento . . . . 
Meadow Valley. 



iSan Francisco 

Monterey . 

.Sacramento . . 
Plumas 



37 48 


122 97 


30 


36 36 


121 52 


40 


38 32 


121 30 


65 


40 20 


120 15 


3,700 



A 

A 

A 

B. T. R 



COLORADO. 



Merriam, Arthur M. 



El Paso 



CONNECTICUT. 



Dewhurst, Rev. E 




New London 

Windham 

Middle.'-ex 

Litchfield 

Tolland 


41 21 
41 52 

41 33 

42 00 
41 40 


72 12 

72 10 

73 39 
73 03 
72-42 


20 
587 
175 


B. T.R-. 

A 

A 

T 

T 


12 


Hunt, Rev. Daniel 

Johnston , Prof. John 

Rockwell, Charlotte 

Yeomans, William H 


Pomfret . 

Middletown 

Colebrook 

Columbia 


12 
12 
12 
12 








DELAWARE. 


Vankekle, L 


Delaware City... 


New Castle 


39 35 


75 34 




T 


4 






ELORIDA. 


Baldwin, A. S., M. D 


Jacksonville 




30 15 

29 45 

30 12 
29 45 


82 00 
82 30 
82 40 
82 30 


20 

"'"'iss' 


A 

T 

T. E . . . . 
T 


4 


Garvin, P. C, M. D 


Alachua 

Columbia 

Alachua 


4 




Lake City 


3 


Scott, H. B 


2 








GEORGIA. 


Deckner, Fredrick 


Atlanta 


Fulton 


33 45 


84 31 


1 1, 050 
1. 


T.R .... 


11 











METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVERS 
List (if 7nctcorological stations and observers, Hsv — Continued. 

ILLINOIS. 



53 



Name of observer. 



Adams, W H 

Aldrich, Verry 

Babcock, 10 

Bowman, E. H., M. D 

Ballou, N. K., M. D 

Breudel, Frederick, M. D - 

BUinchurd O A 

Briukerlioif, George M 

Brookes, Samuel 

Carey, Dauiel 

Dudley, Timothy 

Duucan, Kev. Alexander. 

Eldredge, William V 

Grant, John \ 

Grant Charles W i 

Huse, Fred. J 

Livingston, Prof. William. 

Marcy Prof. Oliver 

Marsh, O J 

Mead, S. 15 

Merwin, Mrs. Emily H . .. 

Moore, C H 

Parker, John D 

Phelps, E. S i 

Phelps, Miss Lelia E i 

Pool, Isaac A 

Rogers, O. P. and J. S 

Smith, Henry K 

Spencer, Wm. C 

Spaulding, Abiram 

Spaulding, S. C 

Tolman, James W 



Station. 



Elmore 

Tiskilwa 

Riley 

Andalusia 

Sandwich 

Peoria 

Elmira 

Springfield 

Chicago 

Alto 

Waverly 

Mount Sterling 
Golconda 

Manchester . . . 

Evanston 

Galesburg 

Evanston 

Hoylton 

Augusta 

Ottawa 

Clinton 

DeKalb 

Wyanet 

Chicago 

Marengo 

Magnolia 

Dubois 

Aurora 

South Pass 

Winnebago - . 



County. 



Peoria 

Bureau 

McHenry. . . 
Rock Island 

DeKalb 

Peoria 

Stark 

Sangamon. . 

Cook 

Lee 

Morgan . 

Brown 

Pope 

Scott 



Cook 

Knox 

Cook 

Washington - . . 

Hancock 

La Salle 

De Witt 

De Kalb 

Bureau 

Cook 

MoHenry 

Putnam 

Washington ... 

Kane 

Union 

Winnebago . .. 



40 56 

41 15 
4-2 11 
41 30 
41 31 

40 43 

41 12 
39 48 
4J 00 

41 45 

39 40 

40 00 

37 41 

39 31 

42 03 

40 55 
42 03 

38 30 

40 10 

41 20 
40 09 



41 30 



42 14 
41 15 
38 14 
41 48 



42 n 



90 04 
89 l(i 

88 33 

'8830' 

89 30 

90 15 
89 33 

87 30 

89 00 

90 00 

91 15 

88 47 

90 34 

87 38 
87 IL 

87 38 

89 00 

91 00 

88 47 
88 58 



88 38 

89 15 
89 16 
88 23 



89 12 



Feet. 
612 
550 
760 

'"'665 
460 



600 



683 

614 

795 
614 



500 
430 



842 



R 

T 

T R . . 
B. T . . 
T. R . . 

A 

T.R... 

T 

T 

T 

T. R . . 

T 

T 

A 

B. T .. 
A . . 
B. T. R 

T 

T. P. R 
T. R . . 
B. T . . 
B 

T. R . . 

T 

B. T. R 
T, R . . 
T. R .- 

A 

T 

A 



INDIANA. 



Boerner, Charles G 

Butterfield, W. W. & Mrs. 

Chappellsuiith, John 

Collins, Rev. Samuel 

Davcson, William 

Griest, Miriam 

Holmes, Thomas 

Kemper, «. W. H., M. D. 

McCoy, Dr. F ) 

McCoy, Miss Lizzie i 

Sutton, George, M. D 

Valentine, John 



Vcvay 

Indianapolis . . 
New Harmony 

Madison 

Spicelaud 

Balbec 

Merom 

Muncie 

Columbia 

Aurora 

Richmond 



Switzerland 

Marion 

Posey 

Jeiferson ... 

Henry 

Jay 

Sullivan 

Delaware . . 

Whitney 

Dearborn 

Wayne 



38 46 


84 .'59 




39 45 


86 20 


698 


38 08 


67 50 


350 


38 45 


85 40 


400 


39 48 


85 18 


1, 025 


41 00 


85 00 


1,000 


39 10 


87 40 




40 12 


85 16 




41 10 


85 30 




39 04 


84 54 


*80 


39 52 


84 39 


850 



T. 


R 




T 






A 






B. 


T. 


R.. 


B. 


T. 


R.. 


B. 


T 




T. 


H 




T. 


R 




T. 


R 




B. 


T. 


R.. 


A 













IOWA. 



Bryant, A. F 

IJush, Rev. Alva , 

Collin, Prof. Alonzo 

Deeriug, D. S 

Dickinson. James P 

Dorweiler, Philip \ 

i'aruswortli, P. J., M. D. 
Hagensiek, John Mathias 

Horr, Asa, M.D 

Hudson, A. T 

Kridelbaugh, S. H., M. D 

Love, Louisa P 

McCready, Daniel 



Fontanelle 

Osage , 

Mount Vernon... 

Independence 

Guttenburg 

Guttenburg 

Algoua , 

Clinton 

Ceres , 

Dnbuque 

Lyons 

Clarinda 

Burlington 

Fort Madisou 



Adair 

Mitchell 

Linn 

Buchanan . . 

Clayton 

Clayton 

Kossuth 

Clinton 

Clayton 

Dubuque . . 

Clinton 

Page 

Des Moines. 
Lee 



41 30 
43 20 

42 00 

42 30 

43 00 
43 00 



40 40 
42 45 
42 30 
40 42 



40 53 
40 37 



95 35 
83 00 

91 00 

92 16 
90 50 
90 50 



90 10 

91 11 
90 40 
90 10 



8.-)0 
690 
690 



630 
825 
666 
630 



91 10 
91 28 



T. R 
T . . . 
T ... 
T - - . 
T . . . 
T ... 
T. R 
T. R 
T ... 
A... 
T. R 
T.R 
T ... 
T. R 



"Above low water in Ohio river. 



54 



METEOROLOGICAL OBSEEVEES. 



List of meteorological stations and observers, 6fc. — Continued. 

IOWA— Continued. 



Name of observer. 


Station. 


County. 


I 

s 
1 


13 
1 


1 


1 
g 

3 
1 










o / 

40 42 
42 30 
42 15 
42 15 

41 35 
41 37 

41 30 

42 30 

41 00 

40 27 

42 32 

41 25 

42 29 
42 29 


O / 

90 10 

91 30 
91 15 

91 15 
93 36 

90 40 

92 30 
95 GO 

91 .36 

93 20 

92 03 
91 50 
91 50 


Feet. 

""'925 

880 
600 

""62i' 

737 

670 
900 

"'"'582' 


T.R.... 
T. R.... 
T. R.... 
T. R.... 
T.R.... 
A 

A 

T 

T 

A 

T. R.... 

A 

T. R.-.. 
T. R.... 


3 




Manchester 

Moutieello 

Monticello 

Des Moines 

Iowa City 

Davenport 

Waterloo 

Harris Grove 


Delaware 


12 




6 






6 




Polk 


12 


Parvin Prof Theodore S 


12 


Pratt, George B ? 

Smith, Sydney 5 

Steed, T 

Stern, Jacob T 

Taylor, Prof. K. M., M. D. 


Scott 


12 


Black Hawk 

Harrison 


12 
6 
2 


Iowa Falls 

Muscatine 

Independence 

Independence 




11 


Walton Josiah P 


Muscatine 

Buchanan 

Buchanan 


6 


Wlieaton, Alex. Camp 

Wbeaton, Mrs. Daniel D . . 


2 
10 



KANSAS. 



Agricultural College 

Bacon, David G 

Beckwith, W 

Crocker, Allen 

Horn, Dr. H. B., and Miss 
Clotilde. 

Shaffer, Joseph M \ 

Camp, Essex P j 

Stayman, Dr. J 

Woodworth, Abner, M-D 



Manhattan., 
Lecompton 

Olatha 

Avon 

Atchison . . . 



Fort Riley 

Leavenworth . 
Council Grove. 



RUey 

Douglass . 
Johnson . . 
Coffey . . . 
Atchison . 



Davis 

Leavenworth . 



38 50 

38 08 

39 42 

39 00 

39 15 
38 42 



96 45 



94 30 

95 35 
95 00 



94 52 
96 32 



825 



T. R 
R... 
T. R 
T. R 
T ... 

T... 

T^R 
T. R 



KENTUCKY. 



Beatty, O 

Doak, W.S 

Martin, Dr. Samuel D... 
Young, Mrs. Lawrence.. 
Mathis, H. C 



Danville 

London 

Chilesburg . 
Louisville - . 
TaylorsviUe 



Boyle - . . 
Laurel .. 
Fayette . 
Jefferson 
Spencer . 



37 40 


84 30 


900 


37 12 


84 03 




38 04 


84 20 


900 


38 07 


85 24 


570 


38 00 


85 00 


600? 



B. T. R. 
T 

B. T. R. 

A 

T. R . . . 



Gardiner, Robert H 

Guptill, G. W 

Moore, Asa P 

Moulton, John P 

Parker, J. D 

PettingUl, Waldo 

Pitman, Edwin J 

Robinson, Almon 

Towle, Benjamin H 

West, Silas 

Wilbur, Benjamin ~F 



Gardiner 

Cornish 

Lisbon 

Standish 

Steuben 

Rumford Point. . 

Lee 

Williamsburg 

Webster 

Lee 

Cornish 

West Waterville 



Kennebec 

York 

Androscoggin. 
Cumberland .. 
Washington .. 

Oxford 

Penobscot 

Piscataquis . . . 
Androscoggin. 

Penobscot 

York 

Kennebec 



44 11 

43 40 

44 00 

43 45 

44 31 
44 30 



45 21 
44 04 



43 40 

44 30 



69 46 

70 44 
70 04 
70 30 
67 57 
70 40 



70 44 
69 45 



76 
800 
130 
280 

50 
600 



784 
250 



A 

T. R.. 
T. R . . 
T. R.. 

A 

T. R .. 

T 

T. R . . 

T 

T. R.. 
B. T. R 
T.R.. 



MARYLAND. 



Baer, Miss Hamott M 

Goodman, WiUiam R 

Grape, George S - - - . 

McCormicJi, James O 

Smith, Eli 

Stephenson, Rev. James. . 



Frederick . . . 
Annapolis - . . 
Catonsville . . 
Woodlawn .. 
Emmittsburg 
St. luigoes .. 



Frederick 

Anne Arundel. 

Baltimore 

Cecil 

Frederick 

St. Mary's 



39 24 

38 58 

39 17 
39 39 



38 10 



77 17 
76 29 
76 42 
76 04 



76 30 



T. R .. 

A 

T 

B. T. K 

T , 

A 



METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVERS 



List of meteorological stations and ohservcrs, Sfc- — Continued. 

MASSACHUSETTS. 



Name of observer. 


Station. 


County. 


■a 

3 
O 


West longitude. 




a 

S 

u 


J3 

g 


Astronomical Observatory. 


Williamstown ... 

Richmond 

Newbury 

Lunenburg 

Westfield 

Worcester 

Lawrence 

Cambridge 

Topsfield 

Topsfield 

Meudon 

North Billerica... 

Georgetown 

Kingston 

New Bedford 

Amherst 

New Bedford 


Berkshire 

Berkshire 

Esse.x 

Worcester 

Ilaiiipden 

Worcester 

Essex 

Middlesex 


o / 
42 43 
42 13 
42 45 
42 35 
42 06 
42 16 
42 42 
42 28 
42 38 
42 38 
42 06 
42 34 
42 42 
42 00 

41 39 

42 22 
41 39 


o / 
73 13 
72 20 

70 .55 

71 43 

72 48 
71 48 
71 11 
71 11 
71 57 
71 57 
71 34 
71 16 

71 00 
70 45 
70 5G 

72 34 
70 55 


Feet. 

(i86 

1,000 

25 

""istV 

.528 
133 
60 

"22.5 

96' 

267 
50 


A 

T. R.... 

T 

B. T .... 

A 

A 

A 

B.T .... 

A 

A 

B. T. R.. 
B. T . . . . 

T 

T. R.... 

A 

A 

T. R . . . . 


12 
11 


Caldwrll, John II 

Cunuingham, George A .. 
Davis, Rev. Dr. Emerson. 


12 
5 
5 

12 


Fallon. John , 

Fcudler, Augustus 

Merriara. Arthur M 


12 
2 


Merriam. Sidui'y A 

Wetcalf, John Geo 




9 


Worcester 

Middlese.x 

Essex 

Plymouth 

Bristol 


12 

11 




g 


Newcomb, Guilford S 


6 
12 


Snell. Prof. E. S 

Tucker, Edward T 


Hampshire 

Bristol 


12 

4 









MICHIGAN. 



Bullard, R 

Chase, Milton, M. D 

Ellis, Edwin, M. D 

Holmes, E. S 

Kedzie, Prof. R. C 

Mapes, Henry H 

Minick, J. B 

Paxton, J. W 

Smith, Rev. Geo. N 

Smith, Harmon M 

Steele, George E 

Strong, L. H 

Whelpley, Miss Florence E 



Litchfield 

Kalamazoo ... 
Ontonflgon . . . 
Grand Rapids 

Lansing 

Oshtemo 

Houghton 

Alpena 

North port 

Kalamazioo ... 
Homestead ... 

Holland 

Monroe 



Hillsdale . . . 
Kalamazoo . 
Ontonagon . 

Kent 

lugham 

Kalamazoo . 
Houghtou . . 
Alpena . ... 
LeeL?nau . . . 
Kalamazoo . 

Benzie 

Ottawa 

Monroe 



46 40 
43 00 
42 42 



46 40 
45 02 
45 08 
42 20 
44 30 
42 42 
41 58 



84 46 



90 00 
85 40 
84 31 



88 30 
83 05 
85 41 

85 40 

86 00 
86 00 
83 23 



895 



600 
592 



T, 


R.... 


T 





T 




T 




A 





N 




T. 


R.... 


B. 


T . . . . 


r 





N 




T 




T. 


R.... 


T. 


R.... 



MINNESOTA. 



Babcock, Dr. B. F 

Cheney, Williaui 

Heimstreet, John W 

Patersou, Rev. A. B.,D,D 

Roos, Charles 

iSmith, Heury L 

Stouffer, Andrew 

Wielaud, C 

Woodbury, C. W 



Afton ' Washington 

Minneapolis I Hennepin .. 

St. Paul I Ramsey. ... 

St. Paul , - 

New Ulm 

Forest City 

Bowles's Creek.. 

Beaver Bay 

Sibley , 



Ramsey 

Brown 

Meeker 

Washington 

Lake 

Sibley 



44 50 


93 00 


950 


45 00 


93 10 


8.56 


44 57 


93 05 


800 


44 57 


93 05 


800 


44 16 


94 26 


*821 


45 13 


94 28 




44 56 


92 52 


800 


47 12 


91 18 


(i50 


44 3L 


94 26 


1,600 



T 




A 




A 




T. 


R . . . . 


T. 


R.... 


T. 


R . . . . 


T 




T. 


R.... 


T. 


R.... 



MISSISSIPPL 



Cleland, Rev. T. H Fayette 



McCary, Robert. 
McCary, William . 

Moore, Albert 

Smith, J, Edwards. 



Natchez . 
Natchez . 
Grenada . 
Kingston 



Jefferson . . . 

Adams 

Adams 

Yallobusha . 
Adams 



31 34 
31 34 
33 45 
31 24 



91 25 
91 25 

90 00 

91 16 



T 

B. T. R. 
B. T. R. 

T 

B. T . . . 



MISSOURL 



Caldwell. Joseph T 

Christian, John 

Englemauu, George, M. D. 

Feudler, Augustus 

Moore, Dr. W 

Ray, George P 

Sibley, P. B 

Stuntebeck, F. H., S. J . .. 
Vertrees, John E 



Athens 

Harrisonville 

St. Louis 

Allenton 

Union 

Canton 

Easton 

St. Louis 

Edinburg 



Clark 

Cass 

St. Louis .. 
.St. Louis . . 
Franklin -. 

Lewis 

Buchanan . 
St. Louis -. 
Grundy . . . 



38 40 
38 37 
38 29 

38 25 
40 12 

39 46 
38 37 

40 00 



94 30 
90 15 

90 45 

91 09 
91 37 
Vi 22 
90 15 
93 30 



481 
482 
616 



T. 


R.... 


T. 


R . . . . 


A 




B. 


T. P.. 


T. 


R.... 


T 




T. 


R . . . . 


A 




T. 


li.... 



* Above Minnesota river. 



56 



METEOEOLOGICAL OBSERVERS. 



List of 7neteorological stations and observers, Sfc. — Continued. 

MONTANA. 









s 


■a 

•a 




CI 




Name of observer. 


Station. 


County. 


3 
^5 


o 

1 


1 
3 

U4 


H 
a 

u 

M 








o / 


/ 


Feet. 






"Wheaton, Alex. Camp 


Helena City 


Edgerton 


46 45 


111 50 


4,150 


T 


12 



NEBRASKA. 



Bowen, Jobn S Elkhorn City 'Washington 4 1 22 

Child, A. L., M. D Glendale Cass 40 55 

Hamilton, Kev. William . . Bellevue Sarpy 41 08 



96 12 
96 05 



1,350 
1,010 



95 50 T. R 



NEW HAMPSHIRE. 



Brown, Branch 

Chase, Arthur 

Hurlin, Rev. Wm . 
Mead, Stephen O.. 

Odell, Fletcher 

Pitman, Charles H 
Wheeler, John T.. 



Stratford 

Claremont 

Antrim 

Claremont 

Shelburne 

North Barnstead 
Coucord 



Coos 

Sullivan 

Hillsboro' - 
Sullivan — 

Coos 

Belknap — 
Merrimack 



44 04 
43 22 



44 23 
43 38 
43 12 



71 07 

72 21 



71 06 
71 27 
71 29 



1,000 
539 



T. R.. 
B. T. R 

N 

T 

B. T .. 
T. R . . 
B. T. R 



NEW JERSEY. 



Beans, Thomas J 

Brooks , William 

Cole, Barker 

Cook, Ephraim R 

Cook, Prof. George H 

Deacon, John C 

Fleming, John 

Lippincott, James S 

Ehees, Blorgan J., M. D. .. 

Sheppard, Clarkson > 

Sheppard, Miss R. C. .. i 

Shriver, Howard 

Whitehead, W. A 

Wood, Samuel 



Moorestown 

Paterson 

Seaville 

Trenton 

New Brunswick 

Burlington 

Readington . — 
Cole's Landing . 
Mount Holly . . . 

Greenwich 

Dover 

Newark 

Haddonfield 



Burlington . . 

Passaic 

Cape May... 

Mercer 

Middlesex - . . 
Burlington . . 
Hunterdon .. 

Camden 

Burlington . . 

Cumberland 

Morris 

Essex 

Camden 



39 59 

40 55 
39 20 



40 30 
40 05 
40 33 

39 54 

40 00 

39 20 

'Ib'kh' 



74 54 
74 10 
74 40 



74 27 

75 10 

74 40 

75 02 

74 47 

75 25 



T 


R. 
R 




T. 




T 







B. 


T. 


R. 


A 






T. 


R 




T 






A 






B. 


T 




A 






B. 


P. 


T. 


B. 


T. 


R. 


A 













NEW YORK. 



Arden, Thomas B 

Aubier, Rev. Jno. M., S. J 

Barrows, Storrs 

Bartlett, Erastus B 

Beauchamp, William M. . 

Bowman, John 

Denning, William II 

V Dewey, Prof. Chester 

Edwards, Daniel 

Fries, George W 

Gardiner, James H 

Gregory, S. O 

Haus, Henry 

Heimstreet, John W 

Howell, Robert 

Ingalsbe, Grenvillo M — 

Ives, William 

Joy, Prof. Charles A. .., 

Mack, Rev. Eli T 

McMore, P. A 

Malcom, Wm. Schuyler . 
Mathews, M. M., M. D... 
Morris, Miss Elizabeth. . . 



Garrison's .... 
New York .... 
South Trenton 

Vermillion 

Skaueateles . - . 
•Baldwinsville- . 
Fishkill on Huds'n 

Rochester 

Little Genesee- .. 

Friendship 

Npwburg 

Theresa 

Depauville 

Troy 

Nichols 

South Hartford . . 

Buffalo 

New York 

Flatbush 

Fort Ann 

Oswego 

Rochester 

TUrog's Neck. .. 



Putnam . 

New York... 

Oneida 

Oswego 

Onondaga - .. 
Onondaga - . . 

Dittchess 

Monroe 

Allegany 

Allegany 

Orange 

Jefferson 

Jefferson 

Rensselaer... 

T oga 

Washington . 

Erie 

New York . . 

King.s 

Washington . 

Oswego 

Monroe 

Westchester 



41 22 


74 02 


180 


40 44 


73 59 


104 


43 10 


74 56 


835 


43 26 


77 26 


327 


43 00 


76 30 


932 


43 04 


76 41 




41 34 


74 18 


42 


43 07 


77 51 


516 


42 00 


78 36 


1, 500 


42 15 


78 10 


1 , 536 


41 31 


74 01 


85 


44 12 


75 48 


305 


44 ]5 




350 


42 44 


73 40 


58 


42 00 


76 32 




43 15 


73 21 


400 


40 43 


74 05 




40 37 


74 02 


54 


42 03 


73 44 


1,430 


43 28 


76 30 


250 


43 08 


77 51 


525 


40 49 


73 49 


43 



T. 


R 




B. 


T 




T. 


R 





T. 


R 




B. 


T 




T 






B. 


T. 


R. 


B. 


T. 


R. 


B. 


T. 


R.. 


T 






B. 


T. 


R. 


T. 


R 




T. 


R 





A. 






T 






T. 


R 




B. 


T. 


R. 


A 






B. 


T. 


R. 


T. 


R. 




B. 


T. 


R. 


A 


.. 




T 







METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVERS. 



57 



hist iif metcdrological stations and ohscrrcrs, &fc. — Continued. 

NEW YORK— Continued. 



Name of observer. 



Morris, Prof. Oran W 

Piiine, Horace M., M. D.. 

Koe, SanfordW s^ 

Roger.*, F. M 

Ruhisell, Cyrus H 

Smith, E. A., &daugliters. 
Spoonor, Stillraan, M. D-. 

Trowbridge, David 

Wilis, Oliver R 

Wilson, Rev. W. D.,D. D 

Wooster, Charles A 

Yale, Walter D 



Station. 



County. 



New York 

Albany 

Jamestown 

Germantown 

Throg's Neck 

Gouvcrneur 

Moriches 

Oueida 

Hector 

White Plains 

Geneva 

North Hammond - 
House ville 



New York 

Albany 

Chautauqua 

Columbia 

AVestchester. 

St. Lawrence 

Suffolk 

Madison 

Schuyler 

Westchester 

Ontario 

.St. Lawrence. .. 
Lewis 



40 43 
43 3i) 
42 06 



44 19 

40 49 
43 04 

43 30 

41 0.5 
A-i 53 

44 30 
43 40 



Feet. 
75 
75 

1, 4.54 



13 
500 

850 





OQ 






a 












t: 












i3 






A 




A 






P. 


T. 


R 


T 






T 






T. 


R 




B. 


T. 


"li. 


T. 


R 




T. 


R. 




N 






T 






li 


T. 


R . 


B. 


T. 


R 


T. 


R 


... 



NORTH CAROLINA. 



Adams. K. W 




35 41 


77 47 


105 


T. R 


11 


Aliinon, Thos. A 


Statesville i Iredell 




T. R... 
T. R... 
T 


7 


Brewer, Rev. Fisk P 


Raleigh j W-'ike 








5 


Mills, John H 


Oxford Granville 


36 23 


78 14 




6 







OHIO. 



Aboil, B. F 

Bambach, Dr. G 

Benner, Josiah F 

Clarke, John 

Crane, George W 

Doyle, J. B 

Fraser, James B 

Hammitt, John W 

Harper, George W 

Haywood, Prof John 

Huntington, George C 

Hyde, Gustavus A \ 

Hyde, Mrs i 

McMillan. Smith B 

Mathews, Joseph McD . . . 

Myers, John H 

Newton. Rev. Alfred 

PhiUips, R C 

Rodgers, A, P 

Schauber, Hubert A 

Sm;th, C H,,M. D 

Smurr, T. A., M. D 

Thompson, Rev. David... 
Thompson, Prof. H. A. .. 

Towson, J, W 

Trembler, J. B, M. D 

True, H. A., M. D 

Tnckerman, li. B 

Tweedv D. H 

Williams, Prof. M. G 

Winchester, ElectusD. .. 
Winger, Martin 



Welshfield 

Ripley 

New Lisbon .. . 
Bowling Green . 

Bethel 

Stenbeuville . . . 

Saybrook 

College Hill .... 

Cincinnati 

Kingston 

Kelley's Island. . 

Cleveland 

East Fairfield... 

HillKborough 

Smithville 

Norwalk 

Cincinnati 

Gallipolls 

Centralia 

Kenton 

Cleveland 

Milnersville . 

WesterviUe 

Lancaster 

Toledo 

Marion 

CoilegnHiU .... 

Smiihfleld 

Urbana 

Anslmburg . .. . 
Wooster 



Geauga .... . 

Brown ...... 

Columbiana 

Wood 

Clermont . .. 
Jefferson . . . 
Ashtabula . . 
Hamilton — 

Hamilton 

Ross 

Erie 



Cuyahoga 

Columbiana 

Highland 

Wayne 

Huron 

Hamilton 

Gallia 

Marion 

Hardin 

Cuvahoga 

Guernsey 

Franklin 

Fairfield 

Lucas 

Marion 

Hamilton 

Jefferson 

Champaign . . . . 

Ashtabula 

Wayne 



41 23 
38 47 
40 45 



39 00 

40 45 

41 48 
39 19 
39 06 

39 39 
41 36 

41 30 

40 41 

39 13 

40 53 

41 13 
39 06 
39 00 



40 10 

41 37 
40 10 
40 04 



41 .39 
40 .35 

39 19 

40 30 

40 06 

41 .54 
40 49 



81 12 
83 31 
80 45 



84 00 
80 47 

80 53 
84 26 
84 27 
83 00 
82 42 

81 38 
80 44 



81 51 

83 43 

84 27 

82 00 



83 54 

81 46 
81 45 
83 00 



82 22 I 

83 08 ! 

84 26 j 
80 38 
83 43 
80 53 
8L 57 



1, 205 

*106 

961 



800 
*305 
693 

587 

683 
1,153 



600 



1,563 



604 
1,077 

800 
1,000 
1,015 

8 6 



T. R 




A ... 




B. T. 


R. 


T. R. 




T. R. 




B. T 




T ... 




T. R. 




A ... 




A .. . 




B. T. 


R 


B. T. 


R. 


A .. . 




A 




T.:..::i 


T. R. 




B. T. 


R. 


T. R. 




N... 




T.. . 




T .--J 


T. R. 




A-. . 





T.. . 




B. T. 


R. 


T. R 





T. R . 




R ... 




B. T. 


R. 


B. T. 




T ... 









OREGON. 



Barnard, A. D 

Hindman, S. M. W. 



Corvallis . 
Albany. .. 



Benton 
Linn ... 



44 30 
44 22 



118 06 
123 00 



Above low water in thj Ohio river. 



METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVERS. 
List of meteorological stations and observers, &fc. — Continued. 

PENNSYLVANIA. 



Name of observer. 


Station. 


County. 


4> 

- u 

.a 

1 
'A 


o 

a 


2 


a 

a 

a 

s 

a 


.a 
'A 


Bentley, E. T 


Tioga 


Tioga 

Lancaster 


/ 

42 00 
40 05 

40 55 

39 40 

41 36 
41 45 
41 00 
41 30 

40 12 
40 16 
40 08 
40 58 

39 57 

40 44 

41 00 
40 05 


O ' 

77 00 

76 45 

77 53 
75 37 

75 19 

76 35 

78 40 

75 00 

74 48 

76 15 
76 32 
76 58 

75 11 
75 28 
80 12 
75 00 


Feet. 
1,000 

'"""too" 

218 

"""366' 
1,400 

36' 

60' 

450 

76" 


T. R.... 

T 

T. R.... 
T. R.... 

T 

T. R.... 
B. T. R. 
T. R.... 
B. T. R. 

A 

B. T. R. 

A 

A 

T 

T 

N 

T 

T 

T 

B. T. R. 
B. T. R 
T. R.... 
T 


12 


Bruckart, H. G 


Silver Spring... 

Fleming . . > 

Pooopson 

Dyberry 

Stevensville 

Grampian Hills . . 
Blooming Grove . 

Fallsington 

Hari'isburg 

Mount Joy 

Lewisburg 

Philadelphia .. .; 
North Whitehall - 

New Castle 

Byberry 

Gerraantown 

Reading 

Nazareth 

Canonsburg 

Horsham 

Ephrata 

Connellsville 


8 




12 


Darlington, Fenelon 




12 




11 


Button, J. Russell 


Bradford 

Clearfield 

Pike 


8 
12 




11 






12 


Heisely, Dr, John 

Hoffer, Dr. Jacob R 

James, Prof. C. S 

Kirkpatrick, Prof. Jas. A. 


Dauphin 

Lancaster 

Union 

Philadelphia 


12 
12 
12 
12 
12 


McConnell, E. M 


Lawrence 

Philadelphia .. .. 
Philadelphia .. .. 


12 


Martindale, Isaac C 


12 
12 


Raser, John Heyl 

Rickseoker, Lucius E 

Smith, Wm., D. D 

Spencer, Miss Anna 

Spera, W H 


Berks 


40 20 
40 43 
40 16 
40 00 


75 57 
75 21 
80 10 
75 11 


269 
525 
850 
250 


6 


Northampton 

Washington 

Montgomery 


9 
11 
12 
12 






40 00 


79 36 




12 









RHODE ISLAND. 



Caswell, Prof. Alexis. 
CrandaU, William H.. 



Providence . 

Newport . . . 



Providence . 
Newport . . . 



41 49 
41 28 



71 25 
71 21 



120 
25 



A 

T. R... 



SOUTH CAROLINA. 



Petty, Charles 


WUkensville .... 




34 50 


81 36 




N 


2 








TENNESSEE. 


Doak, S. S. & W. S 


Greenville 

Clai-ksville 

Lookout Mount'n 




36 05 

36 29 
35 15 


82 50 
87 13 

85 15 


"""481' 
1,626 


T 

A 

B. T.... 


3 


Stewart, Prof. Wm. M 

Williams, Edward F 


Blontgomery .. .. 
Hamilton 


12 
9 



TEXAS. 



Brown, James 

Gantt, W. n.,M. D. 
Rayel, James T 



Kaufman 

Chappell Hill.. 
Kaufman 



Kaufman 

Washington . 
Kaufman ... 



30 15 
32 30 



96 21 
96 00 



542 



T ... 
T. R. 
N.... 



UTAH. 



Bullock, Thomas 


Wanship 

St. George 

Salt Lake 

Rockville 




40 42 

37 11 

40 45 
37 20 


111 20 

114 00 

111 26 
113 40 


6,200 
4,320 


T 

T. R.... 

T. R.... 
N 


7 


Burgon, George A. - . 

Pearce, Harrison 

Phelps, W. W 


:::S 


Washington 

Salt Lake 


2 
11 




4 









METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVERS. 



59 



Ldist of meteorological stations and observers, Sfc. — Continued. 

VERMONT. 



Name of observer. 



Buckland, Harmon 

Cu' tiug, Hiriun A 

Eiiton, Benjaiuin F., M.D. 

Paddock Janus A 

Pamo, Charles L 

Perry, Rev. John B 

Sheldon, Harmon A .. 



Station. 



Brandon Rutland 

Lunenburg Kxsex 



Countv. 



Barnt-t 
Craftsbury . 
Rando ph . . 
Wilmington 
Middle bury. 



Caledonia 
Orleans .. . 
Oruupi- . . . 
Windh.lm 
Addison . . 





« 










'O 












."t^ 


to 




c5 


a 










^ 






u 






'A 


^ 


W 


1 


1 


Feet. 


43 4.-5 


73 00 


4fi0 


44 yS 


71 41 


], 124 


44 18 


72 05 


9.'>3 


44 40 


73 30 


1, 100 


43 35 


72 36 


700 


42 53 


72 47 


1, 2.50 


43 59 


73 10 


398 



T. R... 

A 

B. T. R 
T. R... 
T. R... 
B. T... 
A 



McDowell, W. H. 
Uoffe, Charles L-. 



Eomney 
Ashland , 



Hampshire 
Cabell 



38 30 I 82 16 

I 



T .... 
T. R. 



VIRGINIA. 


Meriwether, Charles J 


near Lynchburg . 
Wy theville ...... 


Bedford 

Wythe 


37 15 
36 55 


79 10 
81 04 


"2,' 400" 


T 

B. T.... 


3 

8 








WASHINGTON. 






48 22 


124 37 


17 


T. R.... 


9 








WEST VIRGINIA. 



WISCONSIN. 



Breed, E. Everett 

Curtis, W. W 

Eddy, Leveng 

Ellis, Edwin. M. D 

Hicks, JolinC 

Lapham, Iner'so A., LL.D 

Lups, Jacob 

Mathews, Dr. James 

Mead, H. C 

Moeller, G 

Porter, Henry D , 

Waite, M. C 

Ward, Prof. Wm. H 

Whiting, Willi.ara H 

Winkler, Carl, M. D 



Embarass. . 
Rocky Run. 

Delavan 

Odanah 

Weyauwega 
Milwaukee . 
Manitowoc . 
Weyauwega 
Waupaca . . . 
Plymouth . . 

Bcloit 

Baraboo .... 

Ripon 

Geneva 

Milwaukee . 



Waupaca 

Columbia. .. . 
Walworth .. 
Ashland .... 
Waupaca . .. 
Milwaukee .. 
Manitowoc .. 

Waupaca 

Waupaca . - . 
Sheboygan .., 

Rock 

Sauk 

Pond du La-; 
Walworth . . 
Milwaukee . . 



44 51 

43 26 

42 39 
46 .33 

44 15 

43 03 

44 07 



44 20 
43 44 

42 30 

43 27 
43 TA 

42 30 

43 03 



88 37 

89 19 
88 37 
91 00 
88 .TO 
87 56 
87 45 



89 U 

88 07 

89 04 
89 45 

88 59 

89 41 
87 57 



957 
610 



604 
058 



,000 

870 



600 
630 



T. 


R 


.. 


T 


R. 




B. 


T. 


R 


T 






T 


R. 




A 






B. 


T. 


R 


T 






T 






B. 


T. 




A 






T 


R. 




B. 


T. 


.. 


T 






B. 


T. 


R 



Deaths of observers. 

Stephen O. Mead, Clarcmont, New Hamp.shire, March 18, 1867. 

Rev. Dr. Emerson Davis, Westfield, Massachusetts, June 8, 1866, 

William H. Denning, Fishkill, New Yorit, October 31, 1866. 

Robert McCary, Natchez, Mississippi, July 2."), 1H66'. 

Allen Mead, Manchester, Iowa, December 19, 1866. 

Dr. James Mathews, Weyauwega, Wiscjnsin, September 20, 1866. 



60 



METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVERS. 



Colleges and other institutions from wJticJi meteorological registers were received 
during the year 1866, included in the preceding list. 



Nova Scotia 

Canada 

Alabama 

Arkansas 

Connecticut 

Illinois 

Iowa 

Kansas ,. .. 

Maryland 

Massachusetts - . 

Michigan 

Missouri 

New Hampshire 

New Jersey 

NewYork 

Ohio 

Pennsylvania . . 
Tennessee 

Texas 

Wisconsin 



Acadia College 

Magnetic Observatory 

Baptist Female Institute 

Greene Springs School 

Spring Hill College 

Normal School , 

We.' ley an University , 

Lombard University 

Northwestern University . . . '. 

Cornell College 

Griswold College 

Iowa State University 

Agricultural College 

St. Timothy's Halll 

Amherst College 

State Lunatic Hospital 

Williams' College 

State Agricultural College 

St. Louis University ' 

Grand River College 

St. Paul's School 

Rutger's College 

Columbia College 

Institution. for Deaf and Dumb- . 

Erasmus Hall Academy 

St. Francis Xavier's College 

University of Rochester 

Farmers' College 

Otterbein University 

Urbana University , . . . . 

Woodward High School 

Central High School 

Jefferson College 

Lewisburg University 

Stewart College 

Lookout Mountain Educational 

Institution 

Tusculum College 

Institution for Deaf and Dumb. . 

Beloit College 

Ripon College 



Wolfville. 

Toronto. ' 

Moulton. 

Havana. 

Spring Hill. 

Helena. 

Middletown. 

Galesburg. 

Evanstou. 

Mount Vernon. 

Davenport. 

Iowa City. 

Manhattan. 

Catonsville. 

Amherst. 

Worcester. 

Williamstown. 

Lansing. 

St. Louis. 

Edinburg. 

Concord. 

New Brunswick. 

New York. 

New York. 

Flatbush. 

New York. 

Rochester. 

College Hill. 

Westerville. 

Urbana. 

Cincinnati. 

Philadelphia. 

Cannousburg. 

Lewisburg. 

C larks ville. 

Lookout Mountain. 

Greenville. 

Austin. 

Beloit. 

Ripon. 



METEOROLOGICAL MATERIAL CONTRIBUTED IN ADDITION TO THE 
REGULAR OBSERVATIONS. 

Agnew, J. C. — Table showing tlie amount of rain, also the depth of snow, in 
each month, from May, 1859, to December, 1866, inclusive, at Edina, Knox 
county, Missouri. 

Anderson, W . H — Monthly mean temperature of a station one mile north of 
Rockville, Parke county, Indiana, daring the years 1862, 1863, 1864, 1865, 
1866. Two pages foolscap. 

Asiatic Society of Bengal. — Abstract of the results of the hourly meteoro- 
logical observations taken at the surveyor general's office, Calcutta, in the 
months of August, September, October, November, and December, 1865. — Meteor- 
ological observations taken at Gangaroowa, near Kandy, Ceylon, in the month 
of May, 1864. [Published in the journal of the Society, part 2, Nos. 1 and 2, 
1866.] 

Bartlett, Erastus B. — Summary of observations for the year 1866, and com- 
parison wilh the preceding twelve years. Newspaper slip. 

Beauchamp, W. M — Summary of observations for the year 1866, at Skane- 
ateles, New York. 



METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVERS 61 

BritisJi Museum. — Catalogue of tlie collection of meteorites exhibited in tlie 
mineral department of the British Museum. January 7, 18GG 8 pages, 8vo. 

Bucldey, S. B. — A preliminary report of the Texas geological survey, by S. 
B. Buckley. Austin, 1866. 87 pages, 8vo. [Contains remarks on climate of 
Texas, and tables of rain and temperature.] 

Bullock, Thomas. — Observatif)ns on temperature and ftxce of the sky, at St. 
Mary's, Chalk creek, Summit county, Utah Territory, from June to December, 

1865. 8 pages foolscap. 

Cook, Eugene B. — Report of the meteorologist of the New York Skating 
Club for the season 1865-'66. 24 pages, l2mo. 

Dan-son, Williaf/i. — Summary of obseivutions for the year 1866, at Spice- 
land, Indiana. 

Dijon, Comite Central d" Agriculture. — Journal d'Agriculture de la Cote-d'Or, 
public par le Comite Central d'Agriculture de Dijon, sous les auspices de M. le 
prefet et du conseil general. [Contains monthly tables of meteorological obser- 
vations made at Dijon, France, by Alexis Perrey.] 

Dowell, Greensville, M. D. — The Galveston Medical Journal, a monthly 
record of medical science. Greensville Dowell, M. D., editor. Galveston, 
Texas. [Contains tables of meteorological observations at Houston, Texas.] 

Fallon, John. — Summary of observations for the year 1866, at Lawrence, 
Massachusetts. Newspaper. 

Geological survey of India. — Catalogue of meteoric stones and meteoric irons 
in the museum of the geological survey, Calcutta. 4 pages. 

Heis, Professor Dr. — Wochenschril't fiir Astronomic, Meteorologie und Geo- 
graphic. Redigirt von Professor Dr. Heis, in Milnster. 8vo. 

Huntington, George C. — Summaries of observations at Kelley's island : Table 
I. Mean and extreme temperature, amount of rain, force of wind, first appear- 
ance of anchor-ice in lake, &c., during the month of December, from 1859 to 

1866, inclusive. Table II. Monthly and annual mean temperature from 1860 
to 1866, inclusive. Table III. Monthly and annual quantity of rain and melted 
snow for the years 1860 to 1866, inclusive. Printed slip. 

Hyde, Gustavus A. — Summary of observations for the year 1866, and means 
of eleven years, at Cleveland, Ohio. Printed slip. 

Ives, Williajn. — Summary of observations made at Buffalo, New York, during 
the year 1866. Newspaper. 

Jelinek, Dr. K. — Ueber den jahrlichen Gang der Temperatur und des Luft- 
druckes in Oesterreich und an einigen benachbarten Stationen. Von Dr. K. 
Jelinek, correspondirendem Mitgliede der kaiserlichen Academic der Wissen- 
schaften. Mit 2 Tafeln. Vorgelegt in der Sitzung am 17. November, 1865. 
Vienna, 1866. 4to, 78 pages. 

Kennicott, Robert. — Observations on temperatuie, rain, snow, winds, and 
clouds, made at Fort Yukon, Russian America, from January to July, 1861. 

KongeJige Danske Vidcnskabcrnes- Sc! skab. — Oversight over det Kongelige 
danske Videnskabernes Selskabs Forhandliugers og dots Medlemmers Arbeider 
i Aaret 1864. Af ConferQntsraad, Professor G. Forchhammer, Selskabets Secre- 
tair. 8vo, 192 pages. [Contains monthly tables of observations at Copen- 
hagen, and other meteorological articles ] 

Kongelige Norske Umversitet. — Meteorologisko Tagttagelser paa Christiania 
Observatoiium. 1865. Christiania, 1866. 4to, 50 pages. 

Komnkbjk Nederlandsch Meteorologisch. Insfifuut — Meteorologisch Jaar- 
boek. Eerste Gedeelte. Waarnemingen in Nederland. Uitgegeven door het 
Koninklijk Nederlandsch Meteorologisch Instituut. 1865. Utrecht, 1866. 
Oblong quarto, 198 pages. 

Meteorologisch Jaarboek. Tweedi" Gedeelte. Afwijkingen van Teraperatuur 
en Barometer stand op vA^, Plaatsen in Europa. Uitgegeven door het Konink- 



62 METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVERS. 

lijk Nederlandsh Meteorologisch Instituut. 1865. Utrecht, 1866. Oblong 
quarto, 192 pages. 

Kron, Dr. F. J. — Thermometer, cloud, and wind record kept at Attaway Hill, 
near Albemarle, Stanly county, North Carolina, from April to October, 1861, 
inclusive. 

Lapham, I. A., LL D. — Table showing the mean amount of evaporation 
and of rain in each month of the year, deduced from observations made during 
five years; also the amount of rain in each month of the year 1866, and the 
, monthly mean of twenty-three years ; also the mean temperature for each month 
during the years 1865 and 1866, and the monthly and annual mean of twenty- 
two years, at Milwaukee, Wisconsin. Newspaper. 

Logan, Thomas M., M. D. — Abstract of meteorological observations made 
during the year 1866, at Sacramento, California, wilh extended remarks on the 
climate of Sacramento. Newspaper. 

McAdoo, William G. — Catalogue of plants observed at and near Milledge- 
ville, Georgia, with the times of their leafing, flowering, fructification, and fall 
of leaf in the year 1866 Two sheets foolscap. 

Merrill, John C. — Record of the direction of the wind, morning, noon, and 
evening, from January to June, 1866, inclusive, at Farmingdale, Queen county, 
New York. Fourteen pages small pass-book. 

Mathews, Joseph McD. — Summary of observations for the year 1866, at 
Hillsboro', Ohio. 

Meteor ologisclie Central anstalt der scJiweizerischen naturforschenden Gesell- 
schaft. — Schweizerische meteorologische Beobachtungen, herausgegeben von der 
meteorologischen Centralanstalt der schweizerischen natm-forschenden Gesell- 
schaft, unter Direction von Professor Dr. Rudolph Wolf, Zweiter Jahrgang. 
1865. Zurich. 4to. 

Meteorological Society, (British.) — Proceedings during the year 1866. Edited 
by James Glaisher, esq., F. R. S , secretary. 8vo. 

Naturforschende Gesellschaft in Emden — Die Regenverhaltnisse des Konig- 
mchs Hannover, nebst ausfiihrlicher Darstellung aller den atmosphiirischen 
Niederschlag und die Verdunstung betreffenden Grossen, welche beim Wasser- 
bau sowie beim rationnelleu Betriebe der Landwirthschaft in Betracht kornmen. 
Von Dr. M. A. F. Prestel. Mit einer Regenkarte und zwei lithographirten 
Tafeln. Emden, 1864. 4to, 56 pages. 

Naval Observatory. — Notes on vegetation at the Naval Observatory, Wash- 
ington, D. C, Captain J. M. Gilliss, superintendent, kept by Mr. James Watt, 
gardener, during the years 1862 and 1864. 

Nieder-OesterreirhiscJie Landes- oder Real-Schule, in St. Poltcn. — Zweites 
Programm der nieder-oesterreichischen Landes- oder Real-Schule in St. Polten. 
1865. 8vo. [It contains " Beitrage zur Meteorologie, St. Polten, von Karl 
Swoboda," Twenty-four pages.] 

Nova Scotian Institute ryf Natural Science. — Proceedings of the Nova Scotian 
Institute of Natural Science, of Halifax, Nova Scotia. Vol. 1, part iv, for 
1865-'66. [Contains : Notes on the weather at Halifax, Nova Scotia, during 
1865, by Colonel W. J. Myers, F. B. M. S. Also, abstract of observations for 
the years 1863, 1864, and 1865, at Halifax, by the same.] 

Ohservatorio Magnetico y Meteorologico del Real Golegio de Belen de la 
Compania de Jesus en la Habana, Francisco Pons, director. — Monthly bulletins 
of observations. 8vo 

Oesterreichische Gesellschaft fur Meteorologie. — ^^Zeitschrift der osterreichi- 
scheu Gesellschaft fiir Meteorologie. Redigirt von Dr. Carl Jelinek und Julius 
Hann. I. Band. Vienna, 1866, 8vo., 392 pages. 

Plantamour, E. — Resume meteorologique de I'annee 1865, pour Geneve et 
le Grand Saint-Bernard, par E, Plantamour, professeur. Tire des Archives des 



METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVERS 63 

Sciences de la Bibliothequt' Universelle, Aoiit 1866, avec autorisation de la 
direction. Geneve, 1866. 8vo, 142 pages. 

Quetelet, Ad. — Etoiles filantes observees a Bruxelles, le 10 Aout 1865, par 
MM. Ad. Quetelet, Era. Quetelet, et Ilooreman. — Sur les orages observes en 
Belgique pendant le mois d'Aout 1865, par M. Ad. Quetelet, gecretairo perpetuel 
d(' TAcaderaie. (Extrait des bulletins de I'Academie Koyale de Belgique, 2me 
serie, tome xx, nos. 9 et 10 ) 8vo, 15 pages. 

Quetelet, Ernest. — Sur I'ttat de I'atmosphere a Bruxelles, pendant I'ann^e 
1865, par M. Ernest Quetelet, membre de TAcademie Royale de Belgique. (Lu 
a la seance du 3 Fevrier 1866 ) 8vo, 48 pages. 

Reale Osservatorio di Palermo. — Bulletino meteorologico del Reale 0>-^serva- 
torio di Palermo. 4to, 8 pages. Published monthly. 

Reichel, Edward II. — Manuscript meteorological journal, kept at Nazareth, 
Pennsylvania, (sixty miles north of Philadelphia,) from January, 1787, to Decem- 
ber, 1792, by Charles Gotthold Beichel, principal of the Nazareth Hall Board- 
ing School for Boys, from 1785 to 1802. [The journal gives the temperature 
twice a day, the wind, face of the sky, and a part of the time the hygrometer 
and barometer.] 

Royal Society of London. — Results of meteorological and magnetical obser- 
vations made at Stonyhurst College Observatory, England, during the year 
1865. 31 pages, 12mo. 

Sartorius, Dr. Charles. — Summary of observations for the year 1866, at 
Mirador, Mexico. 

Scottish Meteorological Society. — Journal of the Society for the year 1866. 
Published quarterly. 

Societe de Geographie, Paris. — Observations thermometriques fjiites a Djed- 
dah dans lo courant de I'annee 1864, par M. Pellissier de Reynaud, consul de 
France a Djeddah. (Published in the bulletin of the society, 5th stries, vol. 10. 
July to December, 1865, pp. 197-202.) 

Societe Meteorologique de France. — Annuaire. 

Sjyanish Minister. — Observationes meteorolojicas hecas en el Observatorio 
Asti'onomico de Santiago, durante el ano de 1865, i en el Faro de Valparaiso 
hasta Agor'te del Mismo, inclusive. Santiago de Chile, 1866. 46 pages. 1866. 

State Department, Washington. — The Royal Standard, January 12, 1867, a 
newspaper published at Grand Turk, Turk's Island, containing the report of 
President Moir to his government in relation to the hurricane of September 30, 
1866. 

Tayloe, Edward D. — Meteorological and agricultural notes, from 1831 to 
1865, inclusive, at Powhatan Hill, King George county, Virginia. On sixteen 
sheets Smithsonian blanks. 

Trcmbley, Dr. J. B. — Annual meteorological synopsis for the year 1866. By 
J. B. Trembley, M. D , Toledo, Ohio. 8vo, 16 pages. 

Valentin, Felipe. — Observations (thermometer, psychrometer, state of atmo- 
sphere, wind, and rain) made daily at 7 a. m., 2 p. m , and 7 p. m., at Limon, in 
the province of Cartago, republic of Costa Rica, from the 16th of October, 1865, 
to August 31, 1866. 

Vicenot , jun., Dr. Rudolph Edl. v. — Beitriige der klimatischen Evaporations- 
kraff, und deren Beziehung zu Temperatur, Feuchtigkeit, Luftstromungen und 
Nieder.'^chlagen, von Dr. Rudolph Edl. v. Vivenot, jun. Erlangen, 1866. 8vo, 
103 pages. 

Walker, David, M. D. — Observations of barometer, thermometer, winds, 
and weather, taken at Victoria, Vancouver's island, from December, 1863, to 
June, 1864 ; also at Fort Steilacoom, Washington Territory, during the same 
time. 16 pages foolscap. 

Whitehead, W. A. — Summary of observations for the year 1866, at Newark, 
New Jersey, and comparison with the preceding twenty-two years. Newspaper. 



64 METEOROLOGICAL OBSEEVERS. 

Wilbur, B. F. — Abstract of meteorological register kept at "West "Waterville, 
Maine, during the year 1866, IsTewspaper. 

Williams, Prof. M. G. — Summary of observations for the year 1866, at 
Urbana, Ohio. 

Unknown. — Levant Herald, Constantinople, January 9, 1867, containing a 
summary of the weather, including observations of the barometer and thermo- 
meter, at Constantinople, for each month of the year 1866 



REPOET OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE. 



The executive committee respectfully submit tlic following report in relation 
to the fiiuds of the Institution, the receipts and expenditures for the year 1S66, 
with estimates for the year 1SG7. 

Statement of the fund. 

The original amount received as the bequest of James Smithson deposited in the 
treasury of the United States as a trust fund, by act of Congress, approved 
August 10, 1S46, section. 2 $515, 1G9 00 

The residuary legacy of James Smithson, received in 1SG5, 

invested in United States 7.30 bonds 26, 210 63 

Extra fund, deiived from saving of interest, tfec, invested in stock, 
viz : 

United States 7.30 bouds 27, 939 37 

o I n t Present Interest 

rar value Cost. , . -, 

A-alue. unpaid. 

Indiana 5 p. cent. 875, 000 $63, 000 00 $69, 7,-)0 

Virginia 6 p. cent. 53,500 49,832 50 31,565 $17,655 

Tennessee 6 p. cent. 15,000 11,167 50 9,300 

Georgia 6 p. cent. 500 500 00 500 165 

Washington 6 p. cent. 100 100' 00 100 



144,100 124,600 00 ill, :n5 111,215 00 



Total productive and unproductive capital $680, 534 00 



Receipts mid expenditures during the year 1866. 

RECEIPTS. 

Balance in hands of the Treasurer, January, 1866 $13, 718 63 

Interest on the original bequest of Smithson, viz., 6 per cent, on 

$515,169 30, 910 14 

Interest on Indiana stock, viz., 5 per cent, on $75, 000 3, 750 00 

Interest on Tennessee stock, viz., 6 per cent, on $15,000 900 00 

Premium for sale of coin, &;c 40, 691 26 

Interest on temporary deposit with United States Treasurer 380 82 

Proceeds of sale of $600, coupons, for interest due on Tennessee 

stock 402 00 



Total funds available for the year 1866 90, 752 85 

EXPENDITURES. 

For building and furniture. ; $36. 428 66 

" general expenses 11, 577 24 

" publications and researches 13, 109 95 

*♦ librarv, ixuseum, and literary exchanges 6, 745 77 

67,861 62 



Balance in hands of the Treasurer, January, 1867 $22, 891 23 

5 S Gfi " .. 



66 EEPOET OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE. 

Utatement in detail of the expenditures during the year 1866. 

BUILDING. 

Reconstruction of parts injured or destroyed by fire, $33, 291 81 

Repairs and incidentals to old parts 2, 181 54 

Furniture and fixtures 955 31 

$36, 428 66 

GENERAL EXPENSES. 

Meetings of the board : travelling expenses and hack 

Lire 127 00 

Lighting and heating 1, ?)^^ 54 

Postage 452 84 

Stationery . .' 485 14 

Incidentals:liardwarc, tools, materials for cleaning,&c. 1,213 12 
Salaries : Secretary, chief clerk, bookkeeper, clerks, 

janitor, messenger, and laborers 7, 743 (30 

11,577 24 

Pl'BLICATIONS, RESEARCHES, ETC. 

Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge 3, 776" 17 

Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections 5, 702 67 

Smithsonian Annual Report 1, 377 80 

General printing 243 27 

\feteorology 1, 017 90 

Apparatus for experiments and researches 496 85 

Laboratory, chemicals, &c 122 98 

Exploration 372 31 

13,109 95 

LIBRARY, MUSEUM, AND LITERARY AND SCIENTIFIC EXCHANGE. 

Cost of books 873 24 

Assistants in library, (January to July) 600 00 

Literary and scientific exchanges 2, 009 33 

Assistants in museum, and incidentals for collections, 1, 568 04 
Freights on specimens, books, &c., for museum and 

library 1, 695 16 

— 6,745 77 

Total expenditures during the year 1866 .- • - $67, 861 62 



The foregoing statem'ent is an actual exhibit of the Smithsonian funds, irre- 
spective of credits and payments which have been made in behalf of other 
parties. For example, the Institution during the past year has paid several bilb 
for work done on account of the government, the amount of which has been re- 
funded and credited to the appropriations from which the expenditure -was made. 

The Commissioner of Agriculture has continued to pay one-half of the salary 
of the meteorological clerk, who has been engaged during the year in preparing 



REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE. 67 

the abstracts from the reports of the observers for the ]\[ontlily bulletin of the 
Agricultural Department. 

The appropriation received for the preservation of the collections of the 
exploring expeditions of the United States has been expended as heretofore, 
under the direction of the Secretary of the Interior, in assisting to pay the 
expenses of employes iu the museum, and the cost of arranging and preserving 
the articles. This appropriation is $4,000 annually, but during the last yearaa 
additional sum of $2,000 was received, due for the year ISGo, which had not. 
been paid on account of the failure of the appropriation bill to pass Congress at 
the usual time. 

The specimens intrusted to the care of the Institution are in a good condition, 
although on account of theunllnished state of the building mucli care and labor 
have been required to preserve them from the effects of dampness. 

The committee have examined three hundred and eighty-two vouchers, em- 
bracing several thousand items, for payments during the year, amounting col- 
lectively to $75,211 35. All these vouchers are for moneys actually expended, 
and for legitimate purposes of the Institution, and are in the form which has 
heretofore been in use. The committee, however, would advise that in future 
the following rules, similar to those in use by government, be adopted: 

1. Vouchers to be made out on blanks furnished by the Institution. 

2. All receipts for money paid to be signed by a principal, and not by an 
ngent unless lega'ly authorized. 

3. Each voucher to be complete in itself; no payments to be made on a run- 
ning account. 

During the year the State of Tennessee made arrangements to issue six per 
cent, coupon bonds to pay off the arrearage of interest which had accumulated 
during the war. The claims for interest to be converted into these new bonds- 
were limited to amounts of not less than §1,000. As the interest due the Institu- 
tion was 83,600, Mr. Riggs was instructed to sell the odd $600 worth of coupons 
and convert the remaining $3,000 into stock. The sale of these coupons yielded- 
$402, which sum has been credited in the receipts of the Institution for the- 
year, and three bonds of one thousand dollars each, added to the permanent in- 
vestment. 

It is impossible, until it is known what further action the board wi 1 take in 
regard to the disposition of the stocks, to give a definite estimate of the receipts 
and expenditures during the present year. The following, however, may be 
considered as an approximation sufficiently exact for the general appropriations 
for the operations of the Institution, and the continuance of the Avork upon the 
building : 

Estimatfs for the year 1867. 

UECKIPTS. 

Balance in hand January, 1867 $22, 891 23 

Interest on original bequest 30, 910 14 

Probable premium on coin 10, 000 00 

Interest on $54,150 in United States 7.30 bonds, unpaid coupons 

from February 15, 1865, to February 15, 1867 7, 905 90 



68 REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE. 

Coupons duo on same August lo, 18G7 ^1, 976 47 

Interest on Indiana 5 per cent, stock 3, 750 00 

Interest on Tennessee G per cent, stock 900 00 

Interest on Washington C per cent, stock for lS63-'4-'5-'G and -'7 30 00 

Total available income 78, 3G3 74 



It is proposed to apply tbis as follows . 

1. For the operations and support of tbe Institution, viz : Publica- 
tions, researches, literary and scientific exchanges, museum, sala- 
ries, and general expenses $40, 000 00 

2. For the reconstruction of the building 38, 363 74 

78,363 74 



The income of $75,363 74 above stated does not include any interest on the 
Virginia and Georgia stocks. Their value at the present time is about $32,000, 
being the amount of the unproductive funds of the Institution. 

The Indiana stock yields but five per cent, on the par value. It can now be 
sold and lent to the United States at six per cent., which will increase the an- 
nual income from this source a^east $300. 

The Georgia and Washington stocks can now be sold at par, and the proceeds 
lout to the United States Avill increase the annual income from this source at 
least $30. 

The Tennessee stock at present is Avorth about 62 per cent, on its par value. 
It pays 6 per cent, on the par value, and about 9.G per cent, on the market 
value. 

The Virginia stock is worth at the present time about 59 per cent, on the 
pai- value, and paj's no interest. A large amount of the debt of this State is 
secured by stocks in the railroads and other internal improvements amounting 
to many millions, and it is therefore considered most advantageous to retain this 
stock until it commands a more favorable price. 

The committee, in conclusion, have the satisfaction of reporting to the regents 
the f;xct that the entire bequest of Smithson remains undiminished in the trea- 
sury of the United States ; that all the expenditures from the organization of 
the establishment to the present time, including nearly $400,000 on the build- 
ing, have been made exclusively from the income derived from the bequest, 
while at the same time the efficiency of the Institution has been increased by an 
extra fund of upwards of $100,000. 

EICHAIID DEL AFIELD, 
RICHARD WALLACE, 

Executive Committee. 

Note. — Since tbo pvesenttition and aclopticn of this report, by authority of the Board, the 
United States 7.30's, the Indiana, Georgia, and Tennessee stocks have been sold, and the 
proceeds added to the permanent capital, increasing it from )|?315,169 to $,^650,000. 



EEPORT OF THE BUILDING COMMITTEE. 



The restoration of the buildiug has beeu prosecuted diuiug the last year aa 
rapidly as the funds at the disposal of the committee and the character of the 
work would permit. 

It will be recollected that the damage occasioned by the fire consisted princi- 
pally in the destruction of the roof and upper story of the main building, the 
interior of the large north and south central projections, and the towers con- 
nected with them. 

It will be further recollected that in the reconstruction of the building, as 
stated in the last report, the committee were governed by the following consid- 
erations : 

1. To render the work entirely stable, both as to material and mode of con- 
struction. 

2. To render it thoroughly fire-proof. 

3. In view of the great cost at present of material and workmanship, and 
the means at the disposal of the committee ; to do first, such work as would be 
necessary to preserve the stability of the several parts of the building-, and pre- 
vent injury by the weather. 

Immediately after the fire, a temporary covering was placed over the main 
building in such a position as not to interfere with the subsequent erection of the 
permanent roof. To secure the northern towers, a 9-inch lining of brick was 
laid in cement from the bottom to the top, and firmly united to the original wall. 
In this and all thri other parts of the building reconstructed, wrought-iron gird- 
ers and brick arclic-s were substituted for wooden beams and floors. 

The large south tower was so much injured that thirty feet of the upper jjor- 
tion had to be taken down and rebuilt, the cost of which was much enhanced 
by the necessity of recutting a large amount of new stone for the facing. This 
tower has been divided into six stories, affording as many large rooms, the 
lower for an extension of the museum, an upper one for the meetings of the 
Regents, and the others for storage, &c. The ofiices for the accommodation of the 
Secretary and assistants will be in the northern towers and connecting space. 

The principal access to the second story of the main building is by two large 
iron staircases, on(> on cither side of the northern entrance. These have been 
completed. 

All the towers and connections with the main building have been covered with 
substantial roofs. After much inquiry and personal investigation it was con- 
cluded to adopt the plan for the roof of the main building of wrought-iron 
framing, and slate covering, the latter secured in place by wire to iron purlines, 
alid pointed underneath by a coating of cement. 

A contract was made for the roof in July with the Phoanix Iron Company, of 
Philadelphia, the proposals from which were the lowest ; but owing to unex- 



70 EEPORT OF THE BUILDING COMMITTEE. 

pected delays the iron frame was not received until too late in the season for 
putting on the slate, without injury to the cement by frost. The work will, 
however, be prosecuted as early in the spring as the condition of the weather 
will permit. 

The inside lining of the walls of the second story of the building, which had 
been much injured by the fire, has been removed and its place supplied by a neM'' 
9 inch brick wall laid in cement, securely tied and clamped to the outer stone- 
work. 

The chairman of the committee has given personal attention to the work in 
its progress, and can state from actual knowledge that the plans, material and 
workmanship are of a satisfactory character, alike creditable to the talents and 
careful supervision of Mr. Cluss, the architect. 

The following is an exhibit of the whole amount expended up to the end of 
the year 1866, on the reconstruction of the building: 

Detailed statement of 'payments made on the reconstruction of the Smithsonian 
building, from January 1, 1S65, to January 1, 1867. 

Iron-work — beams, doors, frames, &c $12, 728 58 

Iron-woik — staircase north hall ; . 4, 043 25 

Iron-work — new roof 482 55 

Stone, from quarry at Seneca creek, Maryland 1, 468 94 

Stone cutting and setting 14, 165 40 

Brick, for walls, floors, &c 7, 242 27 

Bricklayers 9, 371 34 

Lumber 2, 185 84 

Carpenters and laborers 6, 57 1 22 

Cement 1,436 52 

Sand and lime 558 69 

Blacksmiths 544 82 

Hardware — nails, tools, clamps, steel, &c 705 32 

Rope, blocks and derricks 173 15 

Painting 46 00 

Tin roof on northeast tower 168 05 

Felt and pitch for repairing temporary roof 212 92 

Freight and hauling on iron beams and stone 1, 027 89 

Slate for new roof 182 60 

Compensation of architect 1, 788 75 

65, 104 10 
J n addition to the above amount which was expended for the re- 
construction of the building, under the superintendence of Mr. Adolf 
Cluss, architect, the following amounts were paid for work done for 
the preservation of the building after the fire : 

Removing debris and clearing up Si , 055 29 

Temporary wooden roo'f 1, 974 25 

Carpenter's work 254 75 

Blacksmith's work 1 28 20 

Glazier's work : 121 95 

Plasterer s work 52 00 

Glass, oil and paint 544 50 

4.030 99 



EEPORT OF THE BUILDING COMMITTEE. 71 

Making tlio wliole amount expended on the building in conKequence 

of the fire, duiing 18G5 and 1SG6 $;G9, 13r) 09 

There was also expended during 1SG5 and 1866 for general re- 
pairs on the parts of the building not injured by tlic fire, the 
introduction of additional water-pipes, new plugs, hose, hard- 
ware, lumber &;c., the sum of 4 268 97 

Whole expenditure on building for 1865 and 1866 §73, 404 06 



It is proposed during the present year to complete the roof of the main 
building and all the rooms in the projections and towers, leaving the large room 
of the upper story of the main building unfinished 'until funds may be accu- 
mulated for the purpose, and its future use be determined upon. 
Respectfully submitted : 

RICHARD DELAFIELD, 

Chairman Building Committee. 
Washingto.v, February 1867. 



JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS 



OP 



THE BOA ED OF EEGENTS 



Washington, January 16, 1867 
In accordance with a resolution of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian 
Institution, fixing the time of beginning of their annual session on the third 
"Wednesday of January in each year, a meeting was called for this day. 

No quorum being present, the Board adjourned to meet on Monday, Januairy 28v 



Washington, January, 28, 18^7. 

A meeting of the Board of Regents was held at 8 p. m., in the' laboratory of 
the Institution. 

Present: Chief Justice Chase, Chaucellor of the Institution; Hon. Garret 
Davis, Hon. J. W. Patterson, Hon. J. A. Garfield, General Richard Dela- 
field, Professor Louis Agassiz, Hon. Richard Wallach, Mr. William R Astor, 
and the Secretary, Professor Henry. 

The Chancellor took the chair. 

Professor Henry presented a general statement of the operations of the In- 
stitution during the year, and of the present condition of the funds. 

He also stated that, on account of the advanced state of the session of Con- 
gress at the time of the passage of the resolution by the Board directing a me- 
morial to be presented in regard to increasing the amount of the Smithsonian 
capital in the treasury of the United States, and also on account of the appre- 
hension that a larger sum would be required for the completion of the building 
than was at first expected, he had deferred action until the present session of 
the Regents, when further instructions could be given in regard, to the matter. 

After remarks bj' the Chancellor and other members of the Board relative to 
the desirableness of increasing the amount in the treasury as the best means of 
permanently securing the capital of the Institution, and of exhibiting to the 
world the care and judgment with which the finances have been managed, 

On motion of Mr. Wallach, the following resolution was adopted : 

Resolved, That a committee of three be appointed to present a memorial tO' 
Congress in behalf of the Board of Regents,, requesting the passage of an act 
auithorizing the Treasurer of the United States to receive into the treasury, on 
the same terms as the original bequest, the residuary legacy of James Smith- 
son, now in United States bonds in the hands of said Treasurer, namely, 
$26,210 63, together with such other sums as the Regent3 may from time to 



PEOCEEDINGS OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS 73. 

time see lil to deposit, not exceeding, with tlie original bequest, the sum of 
one million dollars ; and that the income wbicli has accrued or which may 
accrue from said residuary legacy be applied in the same manner as the interest 
on the original bequest. 

The Chancellor appointed Messrs. Davis, Patterson, and Garfield as the com- 
mittee. 

General Dclafield, from the I'uilding Committee, made a report relative to 
the work done and the expenditures on the reconstruction of the building during 
the past year. 

On motion of General Garfield, the report was accepted and the committee 
continued. 

Professor Agassiz remaikcd that he had just read the report of the Librarian 
of Congress, in which it was stated that the addition of volumes from the Smith- 
sonian Institution had increased the library of Congress one-third, and he wished 
to call attention to the source of the accumulation of so large and valuable a 
library as that of the Smithsonian, one of the best of the kind in the world. 
He attributed it to the policy which had been proposed by the Secretary, and 
so long sustained by the Regents, of publishing original contributions to sci- 
ence, and sending these, with the greatest liberality, to every part of the world, 
in return for which so many volumes of the transactions of learned societies 
had been received, and without which system of publication and exchange 
the present reputation of the Institution and such a library could not have been 
acquired. 

The Secretary stated that, since the last meeting, the death had occurred of 
Mr. "W. W. Seaton, Treasurer of the Institution and one of the original Re- 
gents. 

Mr. Seaton was for many years mayor of the city of Washington, and in 
several of his messages recommended the councils to inge Congress to take 
measures for the organization of the Smithsonian Institution, and it was, finally, 
through his personal influence and that of others interested in the cause of 
science, that the law of 1S4G, authorizing its establishment, was passed. The 
mayor of AVashington is ex-officio, a Regent, a provision chiefly due to the 
zealous interest which Mr. Seaton had manifested in the advocacy of the measure. 
At the first session of the Board of Regents he was appointed Chairman of the 
Executive Committee, a member of the Building Committee, and Disbursing- 
Officer. At the close of his term as Regent he was elected Treasurer, which 
office he retained until liis death, rendering gratuitous service during the whole 
period. 

On motio:i of ilr. Wallach, the following resolutions were adopted: 

Re.wl.i-cd, That the Regents of the Smithsonian Institution have learned with 
deep regret the decease of WILLIAM W. SEATON, late Treasurer of the In- 
stitution, who has been connected with it from its organization, and was one of the 
original members of the Board. His long and gratuitous services to the Insti- 
tution entitled him to our thanks, and his loss, in common with the citizens oi 
Washington and of the whole country, we deplore. 



74 PROCEEDINGS OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS. 

Resolved, That a copy of this resolutioa be transmitted to the family of the 
deceased. 

On motion of Gbneral Garfield, the Secretary was directed to have these 
resolutions, and a suitable notice of the late Mr. Seaton, inserted in the next 
annual report. 

The Secretary stated that it would be necessary to make provision for sup- 
plying the place of Mr. Seaton, and perhaps some new arrangements in regard 
to the method of keeping the accounts, paying bills, &c. 

The Chancellor suggested that the income of the Institution should be placed 
in the treasury of the United States, or in a government depository ; and, 

On motion, it was 

Resolved, That a committee be appointed to consider the subject of the proper 
deposit of the income, and of any change which might be necessary in regiird 
to the system of accounts, and repo?t at the next meeting. 

The Chancellor appointed General Delafield, General Garfield, and the Sec- 
retary as the committee. 

The Board then adjourned to meet on Friday evening, at 7^ o'clock. 



Washington, February 1, 1867. 

A meeting of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution was held 
this day at 8 o'clock p. m. in the laboratory of the Institution. 

Present : Chief Justice Chase, Chancellor ; Hon. L. F. S. Foster, President of 
the Senate ; Hon. L. Trumbull, Hon. J. W. Patterson, Hon. J. A. Garfield, 
Hon. J. F. Farnsworth, General R. Delafield, Professor Louis Agassiz, Hon. 
R. Wallach, and the Secretary, Professor Henry. 

The Chancellor took the chair. 

The minutes were read and approved. 

The Secretary presented a petition from William De Beust, asking for remu- 
neration for losses by the fire at the Institution. 

On motion of Mr. Foster, it was 

Resolved, That the Secretary be authorized to settle with William De Beust 
at a fjiir valuation for his tools lost during the fire at the Institution in Janu- 
ary, 1865, in full payment of his claims, the amount not to exceed five hun- 
dred dollars. 

The Secretary presented the following memorial which had been offered to 
Congress by the special committee : 

MEMORIAL OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITU- 
TION. 

To the lionorable the Senate and House of Representatives in Congress assemhled : 
The Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution have directed the un- 
dersigned to transmit to your honorable body the resolution herewith appended, 
and to solicit the passage of an act in accordance therewith. 

It is known to your honorable body that the original sum received into the 
United States treasury from the bequest of James Smithson, of England, was 



PROCEED J NGS OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS 75 

$515,109, which was considered a trust fund, tlic interest alone to be applied to 
carrying out the parpc.se of the testalor, viz : " The increase and diffusion of 
knowledge among men." 

This, however, was not the ■whole of the Smithsonian bequest, the sum of 
005,015 sterling having been left by Hon. R. Hush, -the agent of the United 
States, as the principal of an annuity to the mother of the nephew of Smilhson. 

Thi! annuitant having died, the sum of $26,210 63 has been received from 
this source, and is now in charge of the Secretary of the Treasury of the United 
States ; and no provision having been made in the act of August 10, 1846, es- 
tablishing the Institution, for the disposition of this remainder of the legacy, 
your mernorialisrs, in behalf of the Board of Regents, now ask that it be added to 
the original bequest on the same terms ; and that the increase which has arisen 
from inerest or otherv/ise on the sum before mentioned, also in the hands of 
the Treasury Department of the United States, be transferred to the Board of 
Regents for assistnig to defray the expense of the reconstruction of the building, 
and for other objects of the Institution. 

And your memorialists would further ask that the Board of Regents be allowed 
to place in the treasury of the United States, on the same terms as the original 
bequest, such sums of money as may accrue from savings of income and from 
other sounes, provided the whole amount thus received into the treat^ury shall 
not exceed one million dollars 

The sole object of this request is the ])erman('nt investment and perpetual se- 
curity of the entire Smithsonian bequest and such other sums as may be accu- 
mulated from savings of accrued interest, legacies, &c. 

And your memorialists will ever prav, &c. 

S. P. CHASE, 

C7/affccIlnr. 
JOSEPH HENRY, 
Sccrcfar^ i>milhsonian Institvtion. 

Resolved, hy the Board of Kc gents of tlie Smillisovian Institution, That an ap- 
plication be made to Congress for an act authorizing the Treasurer of the United 
States to receive into the treasury, on the same terms as the original bequest, 
the residuary legacy of James Smithson, now in United States bonds in the 
hands of said Treasurer, namely, .f 26, 210 63, together with such other sums as 
the Regents may from time to time see fit to deposit, not exceeding, with the ori- 
ginal bequest, the sum of $1,000,000 ; and that the income which has accrued 
or may accrue from said residuary legacy be applied in the same manner as the 
interest on the original bequest. 

Mr. Patterson stated that in behalf of the committee he had presented the 
memorial to the House of Representatives, with a bill in accordance therewith, 
Avhich had passed unanimously that day, and been transmitted to the Senate. 

Mr. Trumbull stated that this bill had also unanimously passed the Senate, 
and only awaited the signature of the President to become a law^ 

The subject of the future policy of the Institution in regard to the museum 
and the appropriation of the large hall in the second story of the building, 
was brought before the board by the Secretary, and remarks were made by 
Professor Agassiz, Mr. Patterson, General Garfield, General Dehrfield, the Chan- 
cellor, and the Secretary. 

On motion of Mr. Patterson, it was 

Resolved, That a committee be appointed to consider what will be the best 
use for the large room in the second story of the main building of the Institu- 
tion. 



76 PSOCEEDINGS OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS 

The Chancellor appointed Messrs. Trumbull, Patterson, Agassiz, and the 
Secretary as the committee. 

General Delafield, from the special committee appointed at the last meeting 
in regard to the depositoiy of the funds, reported in part, and asked for farther 
time, which was granted. 

The Board then adjourned to meet at the call of the Secretaiy. 



February 22, 1867. 

A meeting of the Board of Regents was held at 7 p. m., in the room of the 
Con^imittee on Foreign Affairs, House of Eepresentatives, United States Capitol. 

Present : Chief Justice Chase, Chancellor, Hon. W. P. Fessenden, Hon. J. 
TV. Patterson, Hon. J. A. Grarfield, Hon. J. F. Farnsworth, Hon. R. Wallach, 
General R. Delafield, and Professor Henry, Secretary. 

The Chancellor took the chair and the minutes were read and approved. 

The Secretary stated that it had become his painful duty at this time to 
announce the departure from life of another and one of the most important and 
highly esteemed members of the Board. Since the last meeting Professor 
Alexander Dallas Bache, head of the United States Coast Survey and Regent 
of the Smithsonian Institution, had, after a protracted illness, died, on the 17th 
February, at Newport, Rhode Island, in the sixty-first year of his age ; that 
though this occurrence must be felt as a sad calamity by all familiar with the 
progress of art, science, and education in this country for the last forty years, 
and by all who had been favored with a personal acquaintance with the deceased, 
yet he begged to be permitted to say that none, save his bereaved widow, could 
feel the loss more deeply than himself. He had been on terms of brotherly 
association with him for more than thirty years. It had been principally 
through the influence of Professor Bache that he had been induced to venture 
to accept the appointment of Secretary of this Institution, and that with the 
sympathy, counsel and support of the deceased, he had been enabled, through 
all the eventful changes which had since taken place, to continue the discharge 
of the responsible duties of the office. 

On motion of Mr. Patterson, it was 

Resolved, That the highest honor is due to the memory of our respected and 
beloved associate. Professor ALEXANDER DALLAS BACHE, who, through 
so many years of active life, has devoted, unselfishly and with untiring energy, 
great talents, profound acquirements, and undeviating integrity to the advance of 
art, science, education, and philanthropy. 

Resolved, That ii> the death of our lamented associate, this Institution, of which 
he was a Regent and one of the executive committee from its first organization 
to the time of his death, has lost an efficient collaborator, a sagacious counsellor, 
and zealous supporter. 

Resolced, That the members of the Board, in common with the Secretary, 
lament in his departure the loss of a warm and tried personal friend, and that they 
will always cherish the memory of his genial and sympathetic disposition, his 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS 77 

gentle and prepossessing manners, his refined taste, high moral perceptions, and 
unswerving advocacy of the right. 

Resolved, That a copy of these resolutions be transmitted to the widow of 
the deceased, and that the Secretary prepare a suitable eulogy for insertion in 
the next Annual Report. 

General Delafield presented the annual report of the Executive Committee, 
which was read and adopted. 

The Secretary presented the following copy of the act of Congress relative 
to the increase of the trust fund, referred to at the last meeting of the Board, 
and a statement of what had been done in accordance with it. 

[Public — No 20.] 

AN ACT authorizing the Secretary of the Treasury to receive into the treasury the residuary 
legacy of James Sraithson, to authorize the Regents of the Smithsonian Institution to apply 
the income of the said legacy, and tor other purposes. 

Be it enacted bij the Senate and House of Representatives of the United 
States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Treasury 
be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to receive into the treasury, on the 
same terms as the original bequest, the residuary legacy of James Smithson, 
now in United States bonds in the hands of said Secretary, namely, twenty- 
six thousand two hundred and ten dollars and sixty-three cents, together with 
such other sums as the Regents may from time to time see fit to deposit, not 
exceeding with the original bequest the sum of one million dollars. 

Sec. 2 And he it further enacted, That the increase which has accrued, or 
which may hereafter accrue, from said residuary legacy, shall be applied by the 
Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution in the same manner as the in- 
terest on the original bequest, in accordance with the provisions of the act of 
August tenth, eighteen hundred and forty-six, establishing said Institution. 

Approved, February 8, 1867. 

The Secretary stated that in accordance with the directions of the Board of 
Regents, and the authority conferred by the above act, he had increased the 
amount of the Smithsonian fund in the treasury of the United States on the 19th 
of February, I8G7, to $550,000, in the following manner : 

The interest, at 7 3-10 per cent., due for two years, to Feb- 
ruary 15, 1867, on the $54,150 U. S. bonds, was collected, viz : 87, 905 90 

S25,400 of the bonds were taken by the Treasury Depart- 
ment at 6 per cent, premium, yielding Bonds $25, 400 

Premium 1, 524 

26,924 00 

Interest from 15th February to 19th, four days 20 32 

Amount realized 34, 850 22 

Amount placed in the United States treasury, to be added to 
the original trust fund, $515,169, (making it $550,000) 34, 831 00 

Leavinjr a balance in cash of $19 22 



This balance v,a3 deposited with Riggs & Co. to the credit of the Smithsonian 
account. 



78 PROCEEDINGS OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS 

After discussion as to the further increase of the permanent capital, 

On motion of Mr. Wallach, it was 

Resolved, That the Chancellor and Secretary be directed to dispose iramft- 

. diately of the remaining United States 7-30 bonds, and the Indiana, Georgia, 

and Washington bonds, now held by the Institution, and, if possible, from the 

proceeds to place an additional hundred thousand dollars in the treasury of the 

United States. 

Mr. Patterson requested further time for the committee on the future use of 
the large hall in the main building of the Institution, which was granted. 

General Delafield presented the following report from the special committee : 

REPORT ON ACCOUNTS, ETC. 
The committee to whom was referred the subject of the deposit of the income, 
and any changes which may be advisable in the system of accounts, respectfully 
report that they have carefully considered the matters referred to them, and 
recommend as follows : 

1. That the income being collected according to law, under the authority of 
the Chancellor and Secretary, be deposited in a national bank, which is also an 
authorized government depository, subject to draft, as hereinafter provided. 

2. That no money be drawn from the depository except for the payment of 
accounts which have been examined and approved by the Secretary of the In- 
stitution, and which are in accordance with appropriations made by the Regents. 

3. That all payments for bills exceeding twenty dollars, be made by separate 
checks, drawn by the Secretary on the depository, and that for bills of les9 
amount, a check may be drawn for a number, as exhibited in a single statement. 

4. That there be rendered quarterly to the Executive Committee, by the Secre- 
tary, an account current, accompanied by abstracts of disbursements, supported 
by receipted vouchers, for the expenditure of all money drawn from the deposi- 
tory. These vouchers to be made, as far as practicable, in accordance with the 
forms hereto annexed, each voucher being complete in itself, and to contain the 
facts and information thereon indicated. 

5. That a check-book, ledger, and such other books of record as may be ne- 
cessary, be kept in the office of the Secretary, so as to exhibit at any time the 
financial condition of the Institution. The check-book shall indicate not only 
the sums deposited, and drawn, but also the sources whence they were derived,. 
and the appropriation under which they were paid. 

6. That there be obtained from the depository, quarterly, an account current 
of receipts and expenditures, to be compared by the Executive Committee with 
the accounts of the Secretary. 

7. That the Executive Committee make a quarterly examination of the books 
and accounts of the Institution, and, as usual, an Annual Report of the Board of 
Regents. 

Respectfully submitted : 

RICHARD DELAFIELD,. 
JAMES A. GARFIELD, 

JOSEPH HENRY, 
February 22, 1S67. Committer 



PKOCEEDINGS OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS. 79 

On motion, the report was adopted. 

Professor Henry announced the death of two gentlemen who had Ion*' been 
identified with the Institution in connection with explorations and collections in 
natural history, Robert Kcnnicott, esq , of Illinois, and Dr. Henry Bryant, of 
Massachusetts, 

On motion of Mr. Walhich, the following resolutions were adopted : 

Rcsoh-Cil, That the Board of Regents have heard with deep regret of the death 
of Mr. RoBKRT Kennicott and Dr. Hkmiy Bryant, gentlemen so long asso- 
ciated with the Institution in its system of explorations and collections relative 
to natural history, and that it tenders to the families and friends of the deceased 
their heartfelt condolence in their loss.' 

The Secretary presented the usual account of the operations of the Institution 
for the year ISGG, which was accepted, and, on motion of Mr. Wallach, it was 

Resolved, That the Secretary communicate the annurl report of the Board 
of Regents to Congress. 

The Board then adjourned sine die. 



■* SKETCH OF THE SERVICES OF THE LATE HON. W. W. 
SEATON IN CONNECTION WITH THE SMITHSONIAN INSTI- 
TUTION, AND SOME NOTICES OF HIS LIFE AND PERSONAL 
CHARACTER. 



Among tlie many friends and enliglitened advocates of the Smithsonian In- 
etitution, as at present established, none has been more constant and more effi- 
cient than the distinguished and lamented citizen to whose memory the following 
brief and imperfect notices are dedicated. These notices are designed, in the first 
place, to convey some idea of the character and value of his services in connec- 
tion with the above-named establishment, as well by his co-operation in securing 
for it as prompt and suitable a commencement as the circumstances of the time 
permitted, as by sustaining eventually that plan of organization which corre- 
sponded most nearly with the terms and spirit of the bequest to which it owes 
its existence. He is to be remembered also as a benefactor of the Institution by 
his gratuitous and faithful discharge, for a series of years, of one of its most 
responsible executive offices. 

As is well known, the Sraithson fund, paid into the treasury of the United 
States in 1838, had been, with other moneys, lent by the government to the State 
of Arkansas, and remained for eight years without appropriation to any object 
contemplated by the donor. In 1846 Mr, Seaton, being then mayor of Wash- 
ington, and surpassed by no one in zeal for the public good and in the influence 
due to his rare social qualities, his known integrity, and peculiarly winning and 
unaffected eloquence, united with other gentlemen of like feelings in urging 
upon Congress the organization of an establishment which should at length do 
justice to the benevolent and far-sighted views which had dictated the bequest. 
Their labors, after much opposition, were finally crowned with success; the 
good faith of the country was redeemed by an unconditional assumption of the 
debt incurred by the improper disposition of the fund, which was now declared 
to be a permanent deposit in the treasury of the United States for the objects of 
the trust, Avhile interest also was allowed upon the money from the time of its 
Tcceipt in this country. The Institution, organized in accordance vt^ith these 
resolutions, was placed under the guardianship of fifteen regents, among whom 
was included the mayor of the city of Washington, a provision chiefly due to the 
zealous interest which had been manifested by Mr. Seaton in his enlightened 
advocacy of the enterprise. 

At the first meeting of the Board of Ilegeuts he was elected treasurer, and sub- 
sequently one of the building committee. The former office he continued to hold 
until the time of his death, and during the whole of this period, nearly twenty 
years, discharged its duties Avithout other compensation than the pleasure he 
derived from au association with the Institution and the luudable pride he felt in 



MEMOIR OF HON. W W. SEATON. 81 

contributing to its prosperity and usefulness. It is well known that at the time 
of the organization of the Institution a wide diversity of opinion existed as to 
the practical means which would be most suitable for realizing the objects of the 
legacy. Mr. Seaton, on mature reflection, finally gave his cordial support to the 
policy which sought to impress upon the Institution a truly cosmopolitan char- 
acter. He strenuously advocated the plan which the Secretary, then recently 
elected, had been invited to submit to the Board of Regents, and which looked 
to the advancement of knowledge chiefly through the encouragement and pub- 
lication of original researches, a system which, without neglecting other available 
means for the promotion and diffusion of scientific enlightenment, may be claimed, 
without undue pretension, to have made the Institution favorably known, and 
to have exerted a well-recognized influence wherever men occupy themselves 
with intellectual pursuits. 

The relation borne by Mr. Seaton to the city of Washington, the delight with 
which he watched and aided its progress, a certain native taste also for artistic 
embellishment, led him to take special interest in the architectural character of 
the Smithsonian building and the ornamentation of the public grounds around it. 

Mr. Seaton was a constant attendant at the meetings of the Board of Regents, 
and from his familiarity with the early history of the Institution and the state 
of the funds, as well as from his long experience in public office, was enabled 
to offer suggestions, always marked by clearness of conception and soundness 
of judgment. The social attentions which he was accustomed to extend to the 
regents, especially those who were called from abroad to attend the annual 
meetings, and to gentlemen invited to lecture before the Institution, were but 
the expression of his characteristic hospitality ; but by thus adding to the plea- 
sure of their sojourn in Washington, he contributed largely to increase the num- 
ber of its friends and supporters. The columns of the National Intelligencer, 
under his direction, were always open to the defence of the policy adopted and 
the course pursued by the Institution, and he rarely failed to soften by the cour- 
tesy of his manner and the moderation of his expressions, any irritable feeling 
which might arise in the discussion of conflicting opinions. It would, indeed, 
be difficult to say in how many and in what various ways he contributed to 
the popularity as well as to the true interests of the Institution. The Secretary, 
who was in the habit of conferring with him on all points requiring mature de- 
liberation, may with justice acknowledge that he never failed to derive import- 
ant assistance from the wisdom of his counsels. 

Of a man so highly honored and, what in his case is a more distinctive phrase, 
so greatly beloved by his fellow-citizens, the following biographical account, 
gethered from a communication kindly furnished us by an esteemed correspond- 
ent, will prove, we are confident, neither uninteresting nor uninstructive. It 
will evince that his eminence was won not less by diligence in the pursuit of 
a useful and laborious profession than by the graces of his personal character ; 
not less by his unwavering adhesion to principle and duty, than by the flexi- 
bility with which he knew how to adapt himself to all the classes of men with 
whom his varied life brought him into contact. 
6 s G6 



32 MEMOIR OP HON. W. W. SEA.TON. 

He was a descendant in the direct line of a family of no little note in tlie 
mnals of Scotland. But hoAvever famed for wisdom in council and valor in the 
field, the Seatons had for centuries been scarcely less distinguished for an un- 
faltering attachment to the royal house. Hence, when the government of the 
revolution of 1688 was finally established, Mr. Henry Seaton, with a number 
of other Scotch gentlemen, despairing of any retrieval of the fallen cause of 
the Stuarts, was led to cross the ocean and seek a new home and new fortunes 
on the hospitable soil of colonial Virginia. It was in King William county, 
Virginia, that William Winston Seaton, a lineal descendant of Henry Sea- 
ton, first saw the light, January 11, 1785. His mother bore the name of 
Winston, a family originally from Yorkshire, in England, but long settled 
in Virginia, where it has always enjoyed great social consideration and in- 
fluence. Mr. Seaton's early training was under the roof of his father, Mr. 
Augustine Seaton, at a time when the state of society may be said to have been 
peculiarly conducive to the formation of habits of self-reliance, independent 
thought, and a scrupulous regard for the feelings of others. To the love of 
study he added the love of the chase, a taste which accompanied him through 
life, and which, exacting robust exercise and steadiness of aim, seemed to have 
left its impress on his figure and action when he had reached the age of more 
than fourscore years. In the days to which v/e now refer, schools and colleges 
were not always at hand ; books were not strewn broadcast through the coun- 
try ; the library, which existed as an heirloom of some old family, was such 
as they had brought with them from the Old World, received only rare acces- 
sions, and afforded none' of those helps to easy knowledge which have perhaps 
extenuated our mental culture in the same proportion that they have extended 
it. If any special source of the love of letters, the refined taste, and varied ac- 
quirements which so highly .distinguished Mr. Seaton might be pointed out, 
perhaps it would be found in the influence exerted on his opening mind by a 
Scotch gentleman then living as a refugee in Virginia, the well known Ogilvie, 
earl of Finlater, of whom few persons living at that day had not something to 
tell, as well respecting his eccentricities as his diversified accomplishments. 
But the mind on which these various influences acted was in itself well disposed 
for vigorous and independent exertion. At the early age of seventeen young 
Seaton was already prepared to enter on the business of life, and having adopted 
political journalism as his future pursuit, he gave it his constant services to the 
close ;■ Avith how high and just a reputation for editorial equity, skilful manage- 
ment, and fulness of information, is Avell known to all who have been observers 
of the public events of our time. 

After acting for some time as assistant editor of a Eichmond paper, he passed, 
not Avithout the prestige of early developed talent and force of character, to the 
sole management of the Petersburg Republican, and subsequently to that of the 
North Carolina Journal, of Halifax. Both Virginia and " the Old North State" 
were then peculiarly agitated by the passions and turbulence of political parti- 
sanship ; the position of editor was not only environed with difficulties, but at- 
tended with danger. Mr, Seaton, with a diffidence which was always charac- 



MEMOIR OF HON. W. W. SEATON. 83 

teristic, had at first hesitated to accept a post on which so much depended for 
his party, but every one who knew him will believe that when he had consented 
to lead the attack on the stronghold of federalism at Halifax, he brought to the 
service precisely those qualities Avhich were requisite for its success — firmness 
of purpose, consistency of principle, courtesy to opponents, fairness as Avell as 
force in discussion. It is claimed for him in fact that mainly through his well 
directed exertions the reign of federalism was subverted in that part of the State 
where he labored, and the ascendency fully transferred to those rules of consti- 
tutional construction which were then known alike by the name of democratic 
and republicayi. 

We next find Mr. Seaton, scarcely twenty year? of age, established at 
Raleigh, and associated with Joseph Gales, senior, in the editorship of the 
Register, the most influential journal of the State. It was in the family of Mr. 
Gales that two incidents bearing with (he most important results on the future 
career and welfare of Mr. Seaton occurred. It was here that he met with the 
late Joseph Gales, junior, son of the former, with whom he was destined to 
maintain in the sequel an editorial connection of nearly fifty years, a connec- 
tion which has inseparably associated their names, and whot^e fruits, as em- 
bodied in the columns of the National Intelligencer, will ever constitute an 
invaluable monument of the history and policy of their times. It was in the 
bosom of the same family also that the crowning happiness of his life was real- 
ized, in his union with Miss Sarah Gales, daughter of his editorial chief, and sis- 
ter, therefore, of his future associate. " To refrain on this occasion from drawing 
aside for a moment the veil which covers the sanctity of domestic life, would be 
to omit the most interesting and graceful chapter of Mr. Seaton's personal his- 
tory. His union with the honored partner of his life was marked by a mutual 
tenderness so seldom paralleled, by a devotion so chiyalrous on the one part, a 
reliance so trustful and unhesitating on the other, that it must ever be referred 
to as the crown and complement of his earthly existence. The loveliness and 
good report of this conjugal example were treasured, it may be said, as a per- 
sonal pride and possession by the community in which, for fifty-four years, the 
virtues, the talents, the ineffcible grace of true womanhood, as exhibited in the 
person of Mrs. Seaton, sustained and cheered the toils of her husband in his ar- 
duous career." 

In the mean time, Joseph Gales the younger had been forming himself, under 
the skilful guidance of his father, for the duties of a profession in which he was 
destined to attain an eminence that few have approached, and eventually be- 
came the proprietor of the National Intelligencer, then established at Washing- 
ton. 'In this enterprise he Avas subsequently joined by his brother-in-law, Mr. 
Seaton, nor at the time of his accession did their united talents want for occupa- 
tion in the exasperated state of party feeling and the imperilled condition of the 
country. It was iu 1812, and hostilities had already been declared against 
Great Britain. Without entering into the questions which then convulsed the 
public mind, it is suflScient to say that the Intelligencer gave its earnest and able- 
support to the party which regarded the declaration of war necessary to maintain 



84 MEMOIR OF HON. W W. SEATON. 

the power and secure the rights of the United States. In this state of things it 
was not likely that either of our editors would confine his efforts in behalf of the 
cause he had espoused to the labors of the pen and press ; they were both mem- 
bers of volunteer corps, and shared in the expeditions which were organized, 
from time to time, to repress the predatory incursions of the enemy. But the 
labors of the pen and press were, in their case, felt to be of too much national 
importance to be dispensed with, and a furlough granted alternately to one and 
the other editor, provided for the uninterrupted appearance of the sheet to which 
the public chiefly looked for authentic information and the vindication of gov- 
ernmental measures. Mr. Seaton was at the editorial post on the morning of the 
memorable 24th of August, 1814, when the report of the distant gun told too 
surely that the enemy was advancing in force on the ill-prepared metropolis. 
Hastily despatching his workmen to their respective corps, Mr. Seaton himself 
hurried to the front and arrived in time to take part in the sharp initiative con- 
flict which preceded the disasters brought on the American arms by incapacity 
or want of concert on the part of the leaders and the consequent disorganization 
of an untrained and badly armed militia. The rout of Bladen sburg led the 
enemy directly into the city, and the results of the occupation, as regards the 
destruction of the public buildings, are matters of familiar history. It is not 
perhaps so generally known that a singular attestation was, at the same time, un- 
intentionally afforded by Admiral Oockburn to the widespread fame and com- 
manding influence of the National Intelligencer. He caused the office of its 
publication to be sacked and its valuable contents to be destroyed ; too many in- 
citations to patriotic effort had issued from that sanctuary to escape an ignoble 
vengeance. 

It has been seen that the course of Mr. Seaton's life, from a period little ad- 
vanced beyond boyhood, was such as to insure, indeed to necessitate, an inti- 
mate familiarity with the men and events of his time, with all changes of public 
opinion, with all discussions of constitutional law, with all the movements of 
interest, prejudice and affection by which the affairs of the world are governed. 
The thoughts, the passions, the motives of his fellow-men were necessarily with 
him subjects of scrutinizing observation and intelligent reflection. When he . 
removed to Washington the sphere of his observation and influence was of 
coarse greatly widened. The trusted friend and counsellor of the earlier ad- 
ministrations, there can be^uo doubt that, as he was the depositary of their 
confidence, he often contributed in no small degree to shape their measures. 
The intimate and honored associate afterwards of such men as Adams, Web- 
ster, Clay, Calhoun, Berrien, and all the eminent statesmen of the past age, he 
could scarcely fail, with his quick and penetrating intelligence, to gain such 
insight into public affairs and to gather such stores of varied information as are 
rarely within reach of a single mind. To him, therefore, would naturally resort 
politicians and statesmen of every cast ; for it was instinctively felt that in con- 
sultation with him there was a candor which knew no disguise, a courtesy which 
never failed, a fulness of information and clearness of judgment which his in- 
trinsic goodness of heart placed at the service of all who needed them. The 



MEMOIR OF HON. W. W. SEATOX. 85 

same would be the case with the representatives of foreign governments, and 
with all enlightened strangers, and thus his influence was often propagated to 
other countries than his own. But this subject has been so graphically, if quaint- 
ly, touched by a contemporary journalist that we cannot do better than use his 
words : " There is a parlor in Colonel Beaton's old house at Washington," says 
this writer, " which, could its walls speak, would be more eloquent than the 
walls of any other apartment in America. In that well-known room it was not 
uncommon — we should rather say it was for years a weekly custom — for the 
greatest men in the country, and the representatives of other nations, to gather 
in the freedom of social intercourse. And this may be said with undoubted 
truth, that in those free social conversations and exchanges of thought were 
born many of the great measures of government which added lustre to the 
American name, so that that room may be regarded as the birthplace of much 
of our national glory." 

After having filled successive municipal offices, Mr. Seaton, in 1840, yielded 
to solicitations which had been often resisted, and accepted from the citizens of 
Washington the dignity of the mayoralty, the highest which, under the public 
law, it has ever been in their power to confer. During the succeeding ten years, 
in Avhich he was uninterruptedly recalled with unprecedented unanimity to pre- 
side over the affairs of the city, it is superfluous to say that he brought to the 
discharge of his duties a fidelity and energy which distinguished him in all 
situations, and which have stamped his administration as a model worthy of 
imitation by all civic dignitaries. It would seem indeed to have rested only with 
himself to fill the office to perpetuity, for when, at the end of the above period, 
he peremptorily declined a re-election on the score of advancing years, his re- 
tirement was regarded by all with undissembled regret. Nor is this matter of 
surprise ; for if, in the unswerving discharge of duty, he had evinced an impar- 
tiality and firmness worthy of honor, he had still more won the popular heart 
by personal qualities which appealed to the sensibilities of all the good and all 
the suffering. Accessible to all classes, listening with patient sympathy to the 
story of need or wrong, which was ever promptly relieved or redressed, tender- 
ly considerate of the humble and poor, his charity a household word wherever 
he was known, he called forth a respect and love not accorded to the many, 
and at last descended to the grave crowned by the blessings of those to whom 
the withdrawal of his earthly presence seemed little less than a domestic 
calamity. 

One point only in Mr. Seaton's municipal administration is it thought needful 
here to particularize ; his persistent efforts in the establishment of the present 
admirable system of public schools in Washington. A just tribute to his im- 
portant work in behalf of education has been thus rendered by a municipal 
colleague : "When Mr. Seaton entered upon the duties of the mayoralty there 
were only two public schools in the city ; but justly estimating the value of a 
new and improved system, he continued from year to year to press the subject 
on the attention of the legislative branches of the government, until it was 
adopted in the fourth year of his administration, from which time the number 



86 MEMOIR OF HON. W. W. SEATON. 

of schools Las increased until their scholars now amount to twice as many thou- 
sands as there were hundreds at the time of his inauguration. Among the 
many beneficent acts of his official life this will stand pre-eminent ; and among 
the many friends in whose hearts his memory will be longest cherished, there 
vill be thousands who, but for his efforts, would have been denied the blessings 
)f education, and the manifold benefits resulting from that mental and moral 
ulture which the children of all classes of our fellow-citizens nave since en- 
^ oyed by means of the liberal and enlightened system he so opportunely intro- 
duced and established." 

This rapid sketch would be culpably deficient did we not endeavor to convey 
some idea of the rare personal gifts and virtues of Mr. Seaton, in the sphere 
where they naturally shone with a more benign lustre — his home ; and this we 
prefer to do in the words of one who knew and loved him well : " The centre of 
all household thought ; obeyed by his inferiors with a service of love recalling a 
patriarchal age ; it was at home, in the daily amenities of domestic and social life, 
that he was supreme. Who can forget Mr. Seaton as host ? In the gatherings about 
his generous board mingled the cordial welcome and that air of an older and 
better school which constantly distinguished him— the kindly and reassuring at- 
tention, unaffectedly bestowed on the least distinguished guest, the colloquial 
charm, which extended the fame of his hospitality far beyond the sphere of its 
exercise. His conversation was indeed of an exalted character, lighted up by a 
quaint humor and ready wit, enriched with varied and solid information derived 
alike from men and books, marked also by originality of thought, by an utter 
absence of self-assertion or dogmatism, by a delicate tact in shielding others 
from the wound which a thoughtless or unkind word might inflict, and in drawing 
forth to the best advantage the talents and attainments of each. Doubtless, no 
unimportant part of the charm exercised by Mr. Seaton resided in his engaging 
presence — in the winning smile, the bright eye, the gentle voice, the benignity 
of a countenance upon which a long life of manly effort and kindly purpose had 
left its impress. In recalling these characteristics some idea may be conveyed 
of an attractiveness which was not only widely recognized among ourselves, but 
acknowledged by foreigners, especially the diplomatic representatives of other 
governments, solicitous of obtaining from his lips an explanation of our involved 
politics and those views of public measures which have been known on several 
noted occasions to have materially influenced the deliberations of foreign cabi- 
nets and determined their international policy." 

We know not how we can better close this account of the life and character 
of a lamented colleague than by quoting the following passage from a discourse 
delivered on the occasion of his death : " One of the finest intelle'cts of this 
country, and of the most devout, almost austere, evangelical faith, has repeat- 
edly said, ' that of all the men he had ever known Mr. Seaton was nearest 
perfection and most ready to enter God's presence.' One of the texts on 
which the deceased sometimes dwelt as being to him exceedingly suggestive 
was, ' As a man thinketh so is he ;' and this might be termed the key-note to 
his own character ; without guile, trusting all, believing in all, his wide mantle 



MEMOIR OF HON. W W. SEATON. 87 

of charity and love covering all creeds, all humanity, his was truly ' the spirit 
which thiuketh no evil.' One of his most striking characteristics was the indomi- 
table courage which, through life and to its extremest verge, led him to brave diffi- 
culties and adversities with the same calm, unflinching decision with which he con- 
fronted personal danger, and which enabled him to endure, with unsurpassed forti- 
tude, the sufierings of mortal illness. Self-reliant, self-poised, upheld by his con- 
sciousness of right and just endeavor, firm in his grasp of the immutable prin- 
ciples of truth, and in his reliance upon a gracious and superintending Provi- 
dence, his life was guided by a sense of responsibility as a free moral agent, 
from whom a strict account of the talents committed to his charge was hereafter 
to be exacted. He was constant and fervent in prayer. Often, months be- 
fore, and during his illness, his voice was heard in the stillness of night raised 
in petition to God. His last words on earth, the last tones of his voice vibrated 
with the name of the Saviour. He was a ' devout Christian ; exalted honor bis 
instinct, Christianity his guide.' " 



GENERAL APPENDIX 



TO THE 



REPORT FOR 1866. 



The object of this appendix is to illustrate the operations of the institution 
by reports of lectures and extracts from correspondence, as well as to furnish 
information of a character suited especially to the meteorological observers and 
other persons interested in the promotion of knowledge. 



MEMOIR 



MAGENDIE. 



BY M. FLOURENS, PERPETUAL SECRETARY OF THE FRENCH ACADEMY OF SCIENCES. 



TRANSLATED FOK THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION BY C; A. ALEXANDER, 



" When one has otherwise a great deal of merit," says Fonteuelle, " a general 
conformity with other men is an added merit." In the truth or value of this 
maxim the eminent academician of whom I am ahout to speak was so far from 
acquiescing that, in speculation as well as practice, he was generally prone to 
assert a perhaps undue independence of the opinions and contempt for the 
observances of others. 

Of a spirit firm but sceptical, upright but aggressive, if his quick penetration 
enabled him to discover truth, if he knew how to exhibit it with simplicity and 
clearness, he was just as capable of putting forth a rough energy in combating 
it whenever it did not come to him of its own accord. We might imagine him 
armed with the lantern of Diogenes, and concentrating its light to see only the 
results Avhich he himself obtained; I'esults, indeed, which elucidate one of the 
most delicate points in the human organism, and will insure the duration of a 
name for which he has earned honor and consideration. That name had been 
transmitted to him by a surgeon, originally of Beam, who exercised his profes- 
sion at Bordeaux when Fi an^ois Magendie was born, October 15, 1783. In the 
case of this infant, the pious solicitude, the tender affection which nature reserves 
for the first stage of life, were sadly abridged ; he was deprived, by an acute 
malady, of his mother, almost before he could know the happiness of being loved 
by one. 

To the pleasing unconcern and confidence of infancy succeeded a precocious 
and rude apprenticeship. Transplanted, as early as 1792, to Paris, he heard 
nothing spoken of but the superlative work of Social Regeneration. His father, 
a man of upright purpose, but incapable of allowing a folly to pass without 
taking his share in it, conceived that, in order to endow his son with a civic en- 
ergy corresponding to the elevation of his own principles, it was necessary to 
educate him according to the precepts delivered by Jean Jacques. The new 
Emilius, left to his own devices, wandered at will, with a liberty which strongly 
resembled absolute abandonment. In order to preserve him from instructions 
which might warp his judgment, he was left, on a principle of education, in com- 
plete ignorance. His only resource as regarded the world of intelligence was ob- 
servation, which alone (so said his guide) could secure to him entire indej)cndcnr,e. 

Finding, perhaps with reason, less difficulty in reforming abuses than in com- 
bating maladies, the enthusiastic patriot had abandoned a practice which annoyed 
him for the more congenial pursuit of unproductive civic appointments. With 
the practice went the comforts of the household ; but what imported such a sac- 
rifice as this? The exaggeration of patriotism and the reality of discomfort 
proceeded to such lengths that he would have constrained his pupil, while seeking 
to persuade him that this would be a further step towards independence, to make 



92 MEMOIR OF MAGENDIE. 

his own shoes. At this point, the good sense of the young man revolted ; he 
protested against all these follies ; declared that he preferred to be dependent 
and well-shod, and concluded by asking to be sent to school. 

The primary school had no pupil more ardent ; admitted late, and endowed 
with an energetic will, the young Magendie quickly outstripped all competitors. 
His father was not at all shocked at the inequality which his son found the 
means of establishing from the first ; but very generously pardoned him for it, 
and clapped his hands at hearing the great prize adjudged to this neophyte of 
fourteen years for an exercise " On the Jcnowledge of the rights of mail and the 
Constitution^ The Journal des Hommes Libres soon afterwards announced 
" that there was still hope for the most tender age, when the corrupting poisons 
of the reaction had not blasted it in its first bloom, since the son of citizen 
Magendie, municipal officer, elector, member of the commune, &c., having met 
with a child who was weeping and dared not appear in the presence of his father, 
had comforted, encouraged, and carried him back to the bosom of his family," a 
tender asylum which had often been wanting to this extemporized protector 
himself. A prize of virtue, ostentatiously awarded on this occasion, completed 
the glorification of the young republican. It was with reference to this incident 
that, in later life, M. Magendie, when the liberty was taken by any one of pro- 
testing against the too real asperities of his temper, would pleasantly reply that 
before his fifteenth year he had obtained the proud triumph just spoken of 
under the regime of equality, which must not be supposed to mean equality of 
temper ; but that few certainly could boast of so precocious a virtue as. himself. 

According to the nearly constant practice of those who preach liberty, the 
father of M. Magendie reserved the exclusive use of it for himself. He an- 
nounced to'his son that, not to derogate from the family dignity, he must pre- 
pare to invest himself with the robe and bonnet of the doctor. It had been well 
if at the same time he could have inculcated the unhesitating faith and placid 
self-importance, essential qualifications, from which the acute and discriminating 
genius of the young man was soon to claim perpetual dispensation. 

Introduced into the hospitals, the future adept there commenced his studies. 
The judicious Boyer chose him for his prosector, and in a few months this pro- 
sector transformed himself into a professor of anatomy.* Having obtained by 
competition the position of house-surgeon, {interne,) at the age of eighteen M. 
Magendie was competent to his own support. He distributed his time into three 
parts : the larger share was devoted to study ;t a second portion was reserved 
for instruction, which, practiced from the outset, extendei to all that he himself 
had learned, and formed at once the delight and resource of his youth ;% then, 
poor but self-reliant, although the impressions received from his father had 
imbued him with a republican roughness, yet by a sort of instinct, the lively and 
last spark of the social distinction of his mother, he loved and courted the re- 
finements of good society ; aristocratic and culpable refinements, which however 
educate the character, mould the taste and invigorate the intellect ; these had for 
him something of the prestige of forbidden fruit. A third part of his time, there- 
fore, was consecrated to the intercourse of those saloons which, after the revo- 
lutionary tempest, had opened at the first return of tranquillity, and in which, 

* It was about this time that he contracted his intimacy with Dr. Ferrus, who is known 
for his ingenious investigations and just views regarcSng the maladies of the mind. 

t With his medical he combined literary studies. Although he had been reared at an 
epoch when it was the custom to swear only by Athens and Rome, when habits, manners, 
and principles were all borrowed from those two republics, he had been taught nothing of 
the ancient languages. Desirous of supplying this deficiency, he found the means of doing 
■ so through the excellent courses of M. Lemare, which were attended also by some of his 
most distinguished cotemporaries. He always felicitated himself in after life for having had 
courage for this undertaking. 

X He thereby formed a talent which was peculiarly his own, that, namely, of teaching 
forthwith whatever he had learned, and at the moment of learning it. This communicated 
an indelible stamp to his instructions, which was particularly pleasing to the young. 



MEMOIR OF MAGENDIE. 93 

through a memory of the common calamity, all were friends. Here he was 
received as a young man of elegance and worth, and here he dissembled, Avith 
truly Roman stoicism, the distresses of his situation. "Yet," as he himself 
would jocosely say in after times, " during a period which seemed no short one, 
there remained forme, all deductions made, not more than five sous a day to live 
upon ; and still I had a dog. We shared with one another; and if he was not 
fat, neither was I." 

This energetic labor, this patient poverty, this aspiration for distinction, fortify 
and elevate the spirit. Honor to the poor student who sustains them ! If, with 
his scanty appointments, in his bare apartment, he cheers his vigils and animates 
his ceaseless labors by a dream of success and glory, he does not deceive him- 
self; it is at this price that they are purchased. 

M. Magendie became assistant, and then prosector to the Faculty. This scho- 
lastic apprenticeship opened for him a career; liis dexterity as an anatomist, his 
coolness, his hardihood, gave presage of a superior surgeon. But the life of 
compelled fellowship, of equajity reduced to practice, the contact of rivalships 
never divested of means of offence, proved an intolerable ordeal for this austere 
and imperious nature. From this ordeal sprang an invincible repugnance to all 
acknowledged competition, and in order to escape this contingency he renounced 
surgery. 

To hud in this world a path where one's elbows shall bo free is no easy matter. 
Our difficult youth brooded with so melancholy a spirit over the obstacles before 
him that his retreat was invaded by that bitter discouragement which long suf- 
fering entails, and which the youth, especially the young jihysician, never f;iils 
to attribute to some malady, assumed to be incurable, but which invariably 
vanishes before a gleam of good fortune. Magendie wished no longer to live; 
in fact he asserted that he could not. But one morning a man of the law pre- 
sents himself at the asylum of the student, avIio, having neither process nor 
business, asks with natural surprise, what was wanted wilh him? "^S'othing," 
replied the stranger, "that can be disagreeable to you. You have become the 
heir of a sum of twenty thousand francs, and I am here to place it at your 
disposal." 

The invalid found himself at once in a state of convalescence. Accepting this 
unexpected supply as but a temporary remission of the severity of his life, he 
immediately made arrangements for the acquisition of showy horses and sportive 
dogs, all placed in the care of a sprightly and fashionable groom, who was 
charged, besides, with the duty of keeping a light equipage always in readiness 
for the use of the improvident but joyous owner of these superfluities. And that 
not a moment of this transient prosperity might be lost, and at the same time no 
encroachment be allowed on his conscientious studies, the whole of this appa- 
ratus of luxury was lodged as near as possible to the hospital. " Thither," said 
M. Magendie afterwards, "I used to rui^ when I had an instant to spare, so that 
my whole recreation was literally centred in the stable." The twenty thousand 
francs were, of course, soon spent, but a little relaxation does much good ; it had 
renewed the elasticity of his spirit. 

Independence, the golden dream of youth, seemed to withdraw itself for M. 
Magendie within a circle which left him no choice but to be a physician, if in 
sj)i(e of In nisei f. Such he was in effeci, but he indemnified himself by main- 
taining a state of permanent revolt by obstinately refusing to yield his faith and 
homage to what he called the grand idcl of human credulity. This conflict, in 
which he displayed infinite address and good sense, discovers to us the sceptic 
disentangling from prejudices the art which he respects, and thus giving himself 
the right to make his acquisition a somewhat costly one to the profession— a 
profession which must still honor the superiority of his views and the austere 
probity of his character. 

The physicians of antiquity, beginning with Hippocrates, were at once phy- 



94 MEMOIR OF MAGENDIE. 

siciaus, surgeons, and apothecaries. "In the seqnel," says Fontenelle, "the 
physician was divided into three; not, hoAvever, that one of the ancients was 
worth three of modern times." Three might suffice for the days of Fontenelle; 
at present it would be necessary to divide into fonr. Under a vigorous impulse, 
which is not yet spent, a new science had established its right of naturalization 
in our schools. Physiology, full of promise, lending itself readily to doubt and 
controversy, captivated the enterprising genius of Magendie, and opened for him 
a path to independent distinction. 

"We anatomists," said the old academician, Mery, "are like the porters of 
Paris, who know all the streets, even to the smallest and most obscure, but who 
knov/ nothing of what is passing within the dwellings." Physiology is precisely 
the knowledge of what is passing within the human dwelling. 

The study of the forces by which life is nourished and maintained was cultivated 
in antiquity only by Galen, whose genius cast upon it some admirable gleams 
of intelligence. Along silence followed ; more philosophic than practical, more 
inc[uisitive than indispensable, at least in the beaten routine of human culture, 
this science was transmitted without progress to modern times. In the seven- 
teenth century, an English physician, guided by some confused lights derived from 
a school of Italy, and protected by an enlightened sovereign, ventured, in spite 
of popular prejudice, to practice upon living animals experiments which had be- 
come indispensable for the solution of the problem he had proposed for investi- 
gation. In this way Harvey detected the secret mechanism by which heat and 
life are maintained in the animal organism, and demonstrated the circulation of 
the blood. This discovery was a catastrophe for our old Faculties,* accustomed 
to enjoy in peace all the sweets of time-honored ignorance; they protested, they 
conspired, but in vain ; the clay of their ascendency was at an end. 

From the identical school in which Rabelais had taken his degrees before 
going forth to scourge fools and false knowledge with the lash of his caustic 
genius, proceeded, in 164S, a young man who, applying himself to persistent 
research, succeeded, like Harvey, in demonstrating a grand phenomenon, the 
course of the chyle, thereby completing the explanation of our vivifying forces. 
The admirable discovery of Pecquet has scarcely. availed, however, to save his 
name from oblivion.f 

Expelled by the vindictive thunders of our medical councils, physiology fled 
for refuge to a German university, to Gottingen. There, under the inspiration 
of Haller, was opened a series of delicate and profound investigations,^ ascending 
from the study of the organs to that of the springs by which they are set in ac- 
tion, a progression which leads to the loftiest summits of philosophy. 

At length appeared, at the commencement of the present century, the daring 
genius for whom was reserved the distioguished mission of popularizing phys- 

^ See my Avoik entitled Histoire de la Decouverte de la Circulation du Sang. Paris, 1857, 
(second edition. ) 

t No eloge of Pecquet has been read in our academy. Astruc barely names him in his His- 
toire de la^Faculie de Medicine de Montpellier; and I have nowhere been able to find the date 
of his birth. Condorcet, in his Liste dcs Mcmhrcs de V Ancienne Academic, contents himself 
with sayinfv : '• He made in his youth, while at Montpellier, the discovery of the thoracic 
duct and of the reservoir of the chyle." Now, Pecquet did not make the discovery of the 
thoracic duct, made nearly a century before by Eustaehins. fie made that of the reservoir 
of the chyle. He traced— and this was the capHal point— ail the lacteal or chyliferous vessels 
(which Aselli, who had discovered them, still Supposed to pvoceed to the liver) to that reser- 
voir, by that reservoir to the thoracic duct, rfnd by ths thoracic duct to the heart, thus 
changing the whole doctrine on the course of toe chyla. (.See my Histoire de la Dccouvcrte 
de la Circulation du Snrig. ) Sprengel very properly says : ".' Cei tainly the discovery of Pec- 
quet shines not less in the history of ouv art than the truth for the first time clemon.strated by 
Harvey." (Histoire de la Medicine.) The truth would Ue, the discovery of Pecquet yields, 
in physiology, only to that of Harvey. 

t The experimental analysis of the vital forces begins v/ith the two fine memoirs of Haller 
on sensibility and on irritability. (See my wort entitled De la Vie et de V Intelligence, second 
part, p. 69.) 



MEMOIE OF MAGENDI. 95 

iology ii) France. Bichat combined with the expenmental method of Haller 
bold and judicious views, drawn from a source where prejudice had been accus- 
tomed to look only for style ; he threw into technical language the ideas of 
Buffon;* invested them with the forms of the school, and supported them by 
anatomical demonstrations. By the energetic cast of his genius Bicliat swayed 
his cotemporaries to the study of a science for Avhich his own ardor extended 
even to the sacrifice of his life. One of his school-fellows, Le Gallois, died also 
in tbe same task ; but invested neither with the prestige of easy eloquence, nor 
with the facilities of success afforded by comradeship, this modest precursor of 
modern studies on the nervous system obtained from renown nothing but the 
scantiest justice.t 

Le Gallois was still living when M. Magendie presented himself in the arena 
as a champion of undoubted pretensions. In his own person a strange but favor- 
able result of a training conducted on the principles of Jean Jacques, completed 
by the severest teachings of our first republic, he had proceeded to frame for 
himself a code of duties ; a code which did not save him from the eccentricity of 
manifesting by turns the most inflexible selfishness and admirable disinterested- 
ness ; a rigid probity in the statement of his own labors, a culpable injustice or 
contempt for those of others; a hard and intolerant humor towards every one 
who seemed to stand in his way ; a kindness and generosity without bounds for 
the feeble or afflicted. 

It was by criticism that M. Magendie first made himself known.t In 1808 
he reproached Bichat Avith having abandoned himself to hypotheses, and declares 
that, for his own part, he shall admit no fiicts which do not find their confirma- 
tion in experiments competent for himself to repeat. In 1809 he presented to 
the Academy of Sciences a memoir on one of the most important phenomena of 
the animal economy, that of ahsorptwn. If an active subi^tance, a poison or 
virus, is introduced into any part of the body, that substance is immediately ab- 
sorbed — that is to say, is carried from the more superficial parts to the deeper 
and more essential. By what organs is this transfer effected? Is it by the 
veins, or by the lymphatic vessels? Haller thought that it was by the former; 
John Hunter, by the latter; other physiologists hesitated. By a bold experi- 
ment, M. Magendie suppresses ihe lymphatic vessels ;§ he leaves only the veins; 



* See, as regards the obligations of Bichat to Buffon, my work, Dcla Vie, Sfc, part second, 
p 17 ct scfj. 

t See the work of Gallois entitled Erperiences sur In Principe dc la Vie, notamment sur 
Cclui dcs Moutemr.nts du CUcur ct sur tc Siege dc cc Principe. Paris, J812. It is from this 
book, a conscieutious and profound labor, that dates, in France, the physiological study of 
the nervous system. 

X See his nieaioir entitled Quelques Idies ncneralcs sur Ics Phgnomenes particuliers mix 
Corps til-ants, (Bulletin dcs Sciences Medicates, 1809. p. 145 ) M. Bernard, the distinguished 
disciple and friend of M. Magendie, has given a good simimary of his little tract, which is 
essentially but a criticism of the vital properties of Bichat. "Why invent," asks M. Ma- 
gendie, " on occasion of each phenomenon of living bodies, a particular and special vital 
force? Might wo not content ourselves with a single force which we should call vital force 
in a general manner, in admitting that it gives rise to different phenomena according to the 
structure of the organs and tissues which operate under its influence ? But is not even this 
single vital function too much ? Is there not here a simple hypothesis, since we cannot de- 
tect it ? It woukl bo of greater advantage if physiology only commenced at the instant when 
the phenomena of living bodies become appreciable by our senses." (Notice sur M. Mu>rcn- 



dic ; Lcqon d'Owccrturc du Coursde Medicine an College dc France, ISilG, p. 7. 
^ " jSI. Delille and I separated from tlie body the thigh of a dog previously c 



comatized with 



opium; we left untouched only the crural artej-y and vein, which preserved the communica- 
tion between the thigh and the trunk. These tv/o vessels were dissected with the greatest 
care ; their cellular tunic was removed, for fear that it m^ght contain some lymphatic ves- 
sels. Two grains of a very subtle poison (upas ticutej were then injected into the paw; 
the effects of this poison were as prompt and intense as if the thigh had not been separated 
from the body. It might be objected that, in spite of all the precautions taken, the walls of 
the crural artery and vein still contained lymphatics, and that these vessels sufdced to "-ivo 



96 MEMOIR OF MAGENDIE. 

he even substitutes for the veins a quiU, since the walls of the veins might pos- 
sibly still contain some lymphatic branches ; absorption takes place as rapidly 
as usual, and thus absorption by the veins is demonstrated. 

At all times there have been useful dissidents who have seemed charged with 
the function of keeping our learned corporations aAvake. Such an one, among 
the predecessors of Magendie, was the physician Chirac, who had heretofore 
maintained before the assembled faculty that the stomach remains inactive in 
vomiting. Death had overtaken Chirac before he could conclusively verify the 
fact, bo favorable an opportunity could not escape M. Magendie ; he proved, 
by a decisive experiment, that Chirac was right, and that in the act of vomiting 
the stomach does in fact remain inactive.* 

In a multiplied series of labors, t one of the most ingenious is that which he 
made public, in 1817, on the elasticity of the arteries. Doubts were still enter- 
tained respecting the precise faculty by which the arteries co-operate in the 
movement of the blood. By some it was maintained that they were irritahlc 
or contractile like the muscles; by others that they vrere altogether j9«s5^^:e. M. 
Magendie proved that they are active, but in a manner which is peculiar to 

passnge to the poison. In order to remove this difficulty, I repeated on another dog the pre- 
ceding experiment, with this modification, that I introduced into the crural artery a small 
quill, on Avhich I secured this vessel by two ligatures ; the artery was then cut circularly be- 
tween the two ligatures ; the same thing was done for the crural vein : hj this means there 
was no longer communication between the thigh and the rest of the body, if not by the 
arterial blood which flowed to the thigh and the A'enous wdiich returned to the trunk. The 
poison, afterwards introduced into the paw, produced its effects in the usual time — tliat is, at 
the end of about four minutes." (Magendie, Precis Elementaire de Physiologic, t. II, p. 265, 
third edition.) 

■* " It had been long thought that vomiting depended on the sudden and convulsive con- 
traction of the stomach; but I have shown that this viscus is nearly passive in the act, and 
that the true agents in vomiting are, on the one hand, the diaphragm, and, on the other, the 
large muscles of the abdomen ; I have even succeeded in producing it when, in a living dog, 
I substituted for the stomach the bladder of a hog which I afterwards filled with a colored 
liquid." (Magendie, Precis Elcm. dc Physiologic, t. ll, p. 154.) 

t It will not be oixt of place to give here a summary account of a few among the nirmerous 
works of Magendie not alluded to in the text. — Memoire sur Vusagc dc Vepiglolte dans la de- 
glutition, 18] 3. From the experiments of this memoir, the author concludes: 1st, that the 
epiglottis is not indispensable to the integrity of deglutition ; 2dly, that it is especially the 
movement by which the glottis is closed that guards the larynx during the passage of ali- 
ments sw'allowed. — Memoire sur les images qui sc formcnt aufond de Vccil et sur un moyen 
tressimple de les apercevoir, 1813. This means consists in making use, for the examination 
of the images formed at the bottom of the eye, of the eyes of albino animals, (rabbits, 
pigeons, &c.,) in which the sclerotic coat is transpai^ent. — De I'lnflucnce de Vemetique sur 
Vhoinme et les animaux, 1813. — Memoire sur I'ccsophagc ct scs fonctions, ]813. — Memoire sur 
la deglutition dc fair almosphcrique, 1813. These three memoirs complete the Memoire sur 
Ic vomissemcnt. — Memoire sur les proprietes nutritives des substances qui nc conticnnent pas 
d'' azote, 1816. The result of this investigation is that substances which do not contain azote 
(sugar, gum, &c. ) are improper for nutrition. Although the animals submitted to experi- 
ment were allowed these substances at discretion, and even consumed much of them, they 
did not the less certainly die of inanition at the end of some days. Still further, it is shown 
that whatever the aliments employed, whether azotized or not, it is necessary to vary them. 
"A rabbit and a Guinea pig, nourished with a single substance, such as wheat, oats, barley, 
cabbage, carrots, &c., die, saysM, Magendie,' with all the appearances of inanition, usually 
in a fortnight, but sometimes mirch sooner. Nourished with the same substances given con- 
currently, or successively at short intervals, these animals live and thrive. The most gen- 
eral and essential consequence to be deduced from these facts is that diversity of aliments is 
a most important rule of hygiene." (Prtcis element, de physiologic, t. il, p. 504, 505.) — 
Rechtrches physiologiques et medicates sur les symptomes et le traitement de la gravelle, 1818. 
'•The persons attacked by gout and gravel, ".says M. Magendie, "are ordinarily great eaters 
of flesh, fish, cheese and other substances abounding in azote, (nitrogen.) Most of the 
urinary gravels, a part of the urinary calculi, arthritic tophus, are formed by uric acid — a 
principle which contains much azote. By diminishing in the regimen the proportion of 
azotized aliments, we succeed in preventing and even curing gout and gravel." (Precis 
element, de physiologic, t. II, p. 503.) — Recherches physiques et physiologiques sur Vipecacuana, 
1816. The result of these researches, made in common with M. Pelletier, was the discovery 
of the active principle of ipecacuanha or emetine. 



MEMOIR OF MAGENDIE. 97 

them.* Their action depends on their elasticity, an elasticity which is very 
decided, hut yet purely physical. The first object of experiments in physiology 
is the distinction of forces ; M. Magendie already recognized thi.? great aim, and 
attains it here by a skilful discrimination. The circulation of the blood com- 
mences through the contractility of the heart, a vital force, and is continued 
through the elasticity of the arteries, a physical force. 

It is well known by how profound an aversion for all conjecture, by how 
exact an observation of facts, the researches of ]\I. de Laplace were marked, and 
how much they contributed to maintain in the academy the severe spirit of the 
experimental method. Laplace desired that all science should be but an assem- 
blage of facts rigorously concatenated ; and after having, according to the feli- 
citous expression of M. Cuvier, suhjectcd the heavens to geometry, ho did not 
despair probably of establishing the same order of things upon earth. The 
decisive and absolute manner in which the young physiologist was accustomed 
to draw his conclusions, not always safe, however, from subsequent retraction, 
appeared to Laplace w(ll suited to the style of a geometer. And if it be an 
essential quality of the latter to yield deference to no one, few certainly could, 
in this respect, be better qualified for the function than our colleague. 

M. Magendie, confident in his own strength, held himself aloof with a dis- 
dainful pride, eluding every ordinary encouragement. But it came to pass that 
one day the illustrious, the rigid, the judicious Marquis de Laplace volunteered 
the first advances towards him. Electricity is less potent, for this acts not on the 
spirit, than are the few words of encouragement which fall from the lips of a 
great man. Our sceptic thought himself secure from all enthusiasm, and was 
only the more hurried away by it. It was not long after this that M. de Laplace 
said to his old friend M. de Montyon : " It is greatly to be regretted that learned 

* The conclusions at which lie arrived are: " 1st, that the arteries, great .ind small, pre- 
sent no trace of irritability.^' This we now know to bo too absolute; the arteries, especially 
the small ones, are irritable. This does not hinder, however, their function in the circula- 
tion from being principally due, as Magendie saj's, to their tlasticity — to the elasticity of 
their middle membrane, then* yellow tissue. "2dly: that the contraction of the lelt ventricle 
and the elasticity of the arteries supply a sufficient mechanical reason for the movement of 
the blood in these vessels." (Magendie, Journal de physiologie crpcrimentale, t. I, p. 114.) 

Long afterwards, in one of his best lectures at the college of Fiance, he recurred to tho 
part borne by the elasticity of the arteries in the circulation, and with a development well 
worth remarking: "The part which elasticity bears in the great act of circulation is too im- 
portant not to detain us ibr a moment. The heart — a centnil organ which may be compared 
to an hydraulic pump — is intended to force continually, but by alternating impulsions, blood 
into the system of tubes, wiiichgoes on subdividing itself, and constitutes what we call arte- 
ries. These become reduced into extremely slender ducts which, under the name of capillary 
vessels, proceed to inosculate with another system of tubes — the veins — which convey the 
blood back from the periphery to the common centre whence it flowed. Such, on a large 
scale, is the phenomenon of circulation. It is readily conceived that the contraction of the 
left A'entricle may be siiliiiciently .energetic to drive the liquid into the arterial system, but is 
its action propagated even into the capillary and venous conduits? This problem must now 
be resolved in the affirmative." [8ee on this point the re.'^earches of M. Poiscuiile, one of 
his pupils, whom Magendie regarded as doing him most honor.] " A first phenomenon is 
this: the heart, each time that, it contracts, throws into the arterial system a wave of blOod, 
and as each contraction is alternate, it follows that the blood must be projected by inter- 
rupted jets. This consequence is plain; yet observe now what passes in the vessels where 
it circulates. If we open an artery near the heart the blood escapes in distinct jets; if the 
vessel is distant from the heart the flow is unil'orm and continuous ; and if we open finally 
one of the small arterial ramifications which form the capillary nit-work, the blood spreads 
itself uniformly in a sheet. How comes it that an alternating prcssttre, like that of the con- 
traction of the ventricle, can in the end produce a continuous efflux? By what process of 
nature is this remarkable result accomplished ? I]y the elasticity of tho walls of the arterial 
vessels. If I be not mistaken, I was myself the first to insist on this wholly mechanical 
explanation, the only one which renders an exact accoimt of this singular phenomenon. In 
effect, the jet of blood which the ventricle projects into the aorta makes itself felt in all tho 
arteries Avhose walls it distends; the impulsion ceases, but the sanguineous current is not on 
that account interrupted, for these walls contract upon themselves in virtue of their elastic 
property, and exert on the contained liquid an energetic compression." (Leqons sur ies 
ph^nomencs physiques de la vie, t. I, p 171-183.'' 
7 s66 



98 MEMOIR OF MAGENDIE. 

bodies have not at their disposal the means of sustaining the zeal of inquirers 
who have established themselves in the right method of procedure ; the young 
Magendie, for instance, who gives to physiological labors the invariable basis of 
experiment, would deserve to be encouraged." " Are not your own exhorta- 
tions the most powerful of encouragements ?" " They are not sufficient," re- 
plied Laplace; "for those who aspire to reach our academies there should be 
graduated approaches, which would consist in competitions and prizes." " Yours, 
then," rejoined the unostentatious benefactor, " be all the honor of the concep- 
tion : dispose of whatever you think necessary ; I desire for myself nothing more 
than to have satisfied one of your enlightened wishes." The prize of experi- 
mental physiology was thereupon established, and on Magendie was conferred 
the first distinction.* 

His reputation attracted numerous auditors to the courses which he had long 
before opened. In experimenting before them, he initiated them in his researches, 
brought into play their sagacious curiosity, inspired them with the pleasure of 
refutation. Truth was what he sought with all his energy ; to attain it, no surer 
means, he held, could be found than to borrow nothing from either ancients or 
moderns. Starting with the principle which he had established for himself, that 
in science everything was to be reconstructed, he called everything in question, 
allowing nothing to stand but what was capable of resisting his incessant con- 
troversy. 

The novelty of this instruction had its charms for the young; but the professor 
was reproached for the sacrifices to which it condemned him. He held, however, 
the transient sufferings of the victim a consideration of little moment in view of 
the high and useful aim, the welfare of his species. As the practitioner, to save 
a life, hesitates not to provoke a pain, so M. Magendie's persistence in experi- 
menting on the living animal was no proof of want of sensibility. Let us re- 
member that he shared with his dog when he had but five sous to live on, and 
judge whether it is likely that he would be needlessly cruel. 

In 1816 M. Magendie had published an Elementary Compend of Physiology.^ 
The science which, a century before, was only accessible to a few savants, is, in 
this work, condensed and definitely circumscribed, so as to present to youth a 
lucid and practical manual. In 1820 he founded a Journal of Physiology, 
which, in a duration of ten years, collected the labors of diligent inquirers, pro- 
moted the progress of the science, and extended the reputation of its editor. 

About this time, impelled by an insatiable curiosity of observing and of 
knowing all that was being done in analogy with his own researches, he crossed 
the channel. His presence in London was scarcely known before he was called 
upon, at the solicitation of the principal physiologists whom the country of 
Harvey then numbered, to repeat, with a skill which seemed to pertain to 
prodigy, the experiments by which he was enabled at will to suspend, accele- 
rate, or reduce the forces of life.l So ardent was the admiration excited that it 

* In 1814, M. Magendie, who had been twice before designated by the conscription, was 
again summoned. On this occasion the academy interposed ; in view of his prospective ser- 
vices, it requested his exemption, which was accorded by a special decree. "You owe this 
favor," Avroto the minister, " to the success which you have achieved in the sciences." 

t The date of the first edition was J 816 ; of the fourth and last, 1836. 

J "I was in the laboratory of Wollaston, engaged in repeating before this illustrious ob- 
server some of my experiments on the nervous system. He was especially desirous of veri- 
fying by his own inspection the effects of the section of the filth pair. I opened the 
cavernous sinus or carotid artery, and a profuse hemorrhage ensued around the brain. The 
animal was at once seized with convulsive trembling, and fell as if dead. Wollaston con- 
sidered it to be so, and requested me to repeat the experiment on another. I would prefer to 
recall this one to life, said I, and, what is more, cause it to run as far as you please. He 
thoirght that I was jesting. I then cut a certain point of the brain, and the animal darted 
off like an arrow. Wollaston, of a spirit as judicious as exact, and habituated to reflection, 
was vividly struck with the certainty and novelty of these results." (Logons sur le systeme 
nerveux, t. I, p. 198.) 



MEMOIR OF MAGENDIE. 99 

gave rise to a counter-party. A prudish memorial was even laid before the 
House of Commons, denunciatory of " this stranger whose offensive temerity had 
broken through all the humanitarian harriers established by English zoophilism." 

The institute had been the supreme ambition of M. Magendic ; to reach it he 
had combined both efforts and studies. It was a distinction which suited his 
instincts of independence, of recognized superiority, of noble disinterestedness; 
not so the free test of the ballot ; this suited him very little. The decisive day 
having arrived, two of his pupils were commissioned to bring him news of the 
result, which he awaited at borne with lively anxiety. At length one of his con- 
fidants hurries to him with tidings of his success. " This," he exclaimed, ♦' re- 
pays all my labor; my object in life is attained !" 

From this epoch dates the special application of M. Magendie to the study of the 
nervous system. " The inner man," said Van Helmout, " is all nerve" — Homo 
interior totus ncrvus. It is, in effect, through the nervous system that man feels, 
moves, wills, perceives, that he has intellectual life ; all other parts exist only for 
the service and support of this system. 

" If we admire," said, two centuries ago, the great anatomist Stenon,* " the 
artifice of the fibres in each muscle, how much more must we admire it in the 
brain, where these fibres, included in so small a space, perform each its operation 
without confusion and without disorder !" Stenon was right. What strikes us 
most in the nervous system is the marvellous artifice with which all is there 
arranged. The fibres, springing from the brain, in their prolongation form the 
spinal marrow ; in detaching themselves, by distinct fascicles, from each side of 
the trunk, they furnish successively all the nerves of the body; twenty times 
they become associated, as often separated ; some run parallel with, others cross 
one another; all is united and all distinct; everything touches, and nothing is 
confounded ; each fibre preserves its special play, its proper function ; nowhere 
is there disorder; and from the most intimate connection of the constituent 
elements of the organ results the free exercise of all the faculties. How abysmal 
a depth ! and, in man himself, what subject more worthy of the meditations of 
man ! 

Hence the first and perhaps the most ingenious, the most inventive of physi- 
ologists, Galen, seems to have concentrated for this great study all that he pos- 
sessed of penetration, of ardor, of critical discrimination. He blames Hippocrates 
for having confounded the nerves with the tendons; Aristotle for having taken 
the heart as the origin of the nerves, an error which he seems to impute to him 
as a crime, [crimini dandum.) Aristotle had founded his opinion of the heart, 
thus assumed to be the origin of the nerves, on the appearance of certain parts. 
"But how long, oh, excellent Aristotle," exclaims Galen, "has it been the rule 
to judge of the parts by their appearance ] It is by their uses, their properties, 
their functions, and by these alone, that we must judge of them." Galen was 
the first to distinguish clearly the nerves from the tendons ; the first to see the 
true origin of the nerves ; it was he who first proposed the problem of the sepa- 
rate loss of sensation and of movement :\ a fundamental problem which it was 
reserved for our own age to propound anew and to solve. 

* I quote the entire passaj^e: "We are sure that wherever there are fibres in the body, 
they iiiiiintain a certain correspondence with one another. If the substance of the brain be 
everywhere fibrous, as in efiect it appears to be in several parts, it must needs be admitted 
that the disposition of these fibres is arranged with great art, since the diversity of all our 
sensations and all our movements depends on them. We admire the artifice of the fibres in 
each muscle; how much more must we admire it in the brain, where these fibres, enclosed 
in so small a space, perform each its own operation without confusion and without disorder!" 
Disr.oUTS sur I' Anatomic du Certeau, lit par M. IStcnon dans unc assemblee chcz M. Thecenot, en 
1668. 

t Ubi vera pars aliqua convulsa est, Sfc. " When any part is convulsed, it must needs be 
that the nerve appropriated for its movement, or the mus(;le, is affected. Hence if we found 
our practice on the anatomy of the nerves, proceeding to the several parts, wo shall more 
successfully treat their loss, whether of sense or of motion. These, however, were not dis* 



100 MEMOIR OF MAGENDIE. 

In 1811 an English physiologist, a man of profound sagacity, after having 
long meditated on this vast network of nerves, Avhose complication seems incx- 
tricahle, published a pamphlet of a few pages, in which, according to his own 
expression, he submitted to Ms friends his views and ideas. 

The principle with which everything in this tractate connects itself is, that 
whenever two or more nerves proceed to the same part, it is not for the purpose 
of repeating, of reduplicating therein the same action, but to indue it respect- 
ively with a different function. For example, two nerves proceed to the face; 
the one is for the voluntary movement, the other for the respiratory movement. 
The tongue receives three nerves : one for the movement of deglutition, another 
for the voluntary movement, a third for the sense of taste. Each nerve, there- 
fore, has its determinate office, its precise mission. But it remained to clear up 
a point still more difficult. The greater part of the nerves, all those, for instance, 
of the spinal marrow, are at the same time motive and sensitive. Now, how can 
this be? How shall two functions coexist in a single organ? It was at this 
point that, by an inspiration of genius, 0. Bell conceived the idea of the duality 
of each nerve, each being composed of two, the one for sensation, the other for 
movement ; in this we have the explanation why each nerve has two roots, and 
in each root, taken separately, is seen the primitive, the simple, the distinct 
nerve. M. Bell, therefore, submits each root to experiment; he obtains, as re- 
gards one of the two, a clear and precise result, and from the property manifested 
oy this one he infers the property which resides in the other. 

This experiment, an ever-memorable though in/'.omplete one, was the first step. 
Ten years later, M. Magendie read to the Academy a memoir, in which he an- 
nounced that having divided the anterior voot of a nerve he had abolished only 
Tnovemcnt, and that having divided the posterior root he had abolished only 
sensation. In this he had simply completed the experimeirt of M. Bell, but this 
completion was in itself a new and important advance ; for here nothing was left 
to deduction, but all was positive ; the experimental demonstration was perfect. 
It seems that, in England, all the import of the discovery to which the name of 
Bell had been first attached, was only comprehended when it became known 
there how much admiration was excited on this side of the channel by the subtle 
investigations of Magendie. 

The impression produced by the rare sagacity of our dexterous experimentalist 
was still in the ascendant when- he himself, by one of those abrupt changes to 
which he was but too subject, gave a complete denial to his previous results. 
On this occasion the vacillation was not without excuse; in an inquiry so deli- 
cate, the further the exploration was carried the more complex became the 
enigma. 

M. Magendie, an experimentalist far more practiced than M. Bell, could not 
multiply his researches without perceiving that the root recognized as motive, 
that is to say, the anterior one, yielded signs oi sensibility. Whence did it derive 
that sensibility ? Unsparing towards himself, fully as much as towards others, 
M. Magendie passed twenty years of his life in seeking the solution of this new 
problem ; and we may say to-day, to the honor of his memory, and before this 
Academy which so greatly applauded it, that he found that solution. 

criminated by Herophilus and Eudemus, the first, after Hippocrates, who accurately de- 
scribed the anatomy of the nerves, and who thus have left no slight occasion of perplexity 
to physicians in icgard to the fact that, through palsy of the nerves, sometimes the sense 
only, sometimes the motion, and sometimes both together, are abolished. "Wherefore, when 
motion is lost, this we mostly call palsy (risolutio) of the nerves ; but where the sense of 
certain parts has perished, we are accustomed to say rather that such part is devoid of sensa- 
tion, although there are some who call this affection a palsy of the sense. We leave to each, 
however, to apply these names at his pleasure. Physicians lose sight of the fact that 
the nerves distributed through the skin of the hand, and by which the faculty of sensa- 
tion is conveyed to it, have their 'appropriate roots, and that there are other roots of the 
nerves by which the muscles are put in motion." Galen, De Loc. Affect, p. 21, apud Juntas, 
Venice 1597 



MEMOIR OF MAGENDIE 101 

The sensibility of the anterior root, of the motive root, pertains not to that 
root, is not its own, is in fact but a derivative from the posterior root. This 
derived or reversionary sensibility, which M. Magendie afterward denominated 
recurrent sensibility, constitutes his discovery. And by this discovery, so deli- 
cate and so difficult to achieve, he has restored to the principle of exc/usiveness 
oj" action all its purity, for he has shown that, considered apart and in itself, the 
anterior root is solely motive, as the posterior root is solely sensitive. As long 
as M. Magendie lived these striking results Avcre contested ; nay, they are still 
contested, but they are not the less incontestable. The recognition which co- 
temporaries evado, is compensated by the admiration of posterity. 

M. Magendie was admitted to the Institute in 1821. Having had sufficient 
address to secure his acceptance without dissembling his original humor, without 
subjecting his ineradicable spirit of sarcasm to constraint, he was quite sure to 
discard neither the one nor the other when he had attained his object. His 
colleagues — the practitioners — had admitted him into their Academy from its 
foundation, inasmuch as till then he had shown himself a sufficiently respectful 
disciple of Hippocrates, although he believed in nothing, and in medicine less 
than anything else. With a future conspiring to that end, convictions might 
have reached him ; but a future like his, embellished by the sympathies Avhich 
his scientific success assured him, could but conduct this intractable associate to 
open revolt. 

In our own ranks he fulfilled conscientiously the duties imposed on him ; in 
the labor of the committees he showed himself as active as he was judicious and 
clear-sighted ; several reports of his were real studies. But he held in reserve, 
at the service of certain of his privileges, those abrupt sallies whose suddenness 
disconcerted prevision and set at naught all academic tradition. He never 
insinuated that an opinion was erroneous or a fact misstated ; he plainly said 
so. When a professional colleague — a physician — aspired to the Institute, his 
suffrage was, of course, to be solicited ; but unless the impulses of affection 
tended that way, he defended the position as one who did not believe in the 
necessity of sharing it, and opposed to the foibles of the candidate a frankness 
which left nothing to be guessed at. When substantial titles to success ap- 
pealed to his probity, he would content himself with saying, as he turned away : 
" Well, well ! you shall have my voice, but not my hand." 

A still more serious danger beset our academician : having dedicated himself 
witliout reserve to physiology, he had arrogated that department of science to 
himself as a domain which belonged to him in his own right. No point of it 
could be touched upon without arousing his jealousy : either he had treated of 
it, or he held it mentally in reserve with a view to inquiring what new aspect 
could be given to it by experiment. In this state of things an aspirant who 
stepped from the ranks became an enemy. Transported beyond all self-posses- 
sion, M. Magendie would on such occasions reappear before us as the man who had 
been reared in a complete exercise of the privileges of democracy, until reflection 
and the intrinsic probity of his character admonished him how much, by such 
injustice, he had descended below his proper level. 

Sarcastic, self-confident, and intellectual, there was here more than enough to 
insure a good position in the world. Accordingly a select body of patients 
awaited him without his seeking; but it was necessary that these patients should 
renounce the comfort of being consoled for imaginary complaints ; that, con- 
formed to his humor, they should accept plain trutJis, and submit to reprimands 
and caprices. In spite of all, as Sganarelle expresses it, " they were so be- 
witched with an idea of the man's skill," that, on the noise of the reputation 
which they created for him, he was sometimes approached by those unhesitating 
advocates of medical infallibility who venerate the yoke and would think all was 
lost if their faith did not increase in proportion to the obscurity of the doctrine. 
In laying before such persons the scanty inventory of his own creed, M. Ma- 



102 MEMOIE OF MAGENDIE. 

gendie would throw their frankness into ludicrous perplexity, and finish by 
assuring them that all they needed was to be cured of their tendency to credulity. 

To the ardor of young practitioners vaunting the success of their prescrip- 
tions he opposed his own experience, saying to them with pleasant irony : " It 
is plainly to be seen that you have never tried the plan of doing nothing." If 
the extreme simplicity of this mode of treatment elicited not unreasonable ob- 
jections, " Be assured," he would add, " that, for the most part, when disturb- 
ance manifests itself, we cannot discover the causes ; we can, at most, only 
verify the effects. Our usefulness, in presence of the efforts of nature, which, 
in general, tends to the normal condition, consists in not interrupting them ; it 
is only now and then that we can aspire to be sufficiently skilful to aid them." 

On a certain occasion, when quitting a young person whose condition pre- 
sented alarming symptoms, he said : *' Let him do just what he pleases; that is 
all I prescribe." Usually sparing of his time and visits, in behalf of ihis child 
he lavishes both, but adds nothing to his medication. On the evening of the 
third day, all at once his brow clears up, and, taking the invalid by the ear, he 
exclaims : " Little rogue, you have not allowed me a moment's rest ; go now 
and walk about." The delighted father asks: "What, then, was the matter 
with the child?" "What was the matter? upon my word I don't know; 
neither I, nor the whole faculty, if they were sincere, could tell you ; what is 
certain is, that everything has returned to its normal state." And with this he 
disappeared. 

The greater portion of the medical career of M. Magendie was devoted to the 
unfortunate ; he preferred the hospital to other practice. Twenty years of ser- 
vice as physician in the wards showed us this rigid and wayward man, gentle 
and patient on approaching the bedside of the indigent ; the earnest thinker, 
the inflexible censor listening to and consoling the poor women of the Salpe- 
triere ; receiving with emotion the humble testimonial which they offered him ; 
and not quitting that establishment for the Hotel-Dieu, in 1830, without stipu- 
lating for himself the right of continuing to extend to the former his disinterested 
benefactions. 

A chair of medicine having become vacant at the College of France, the 
minister, desirous of reconciling public opinion with the tendencies of the gov- 
ernment, thought proper to require some concessions from the rigid candidate 
whom that opinion indicated. Conducted by a friend to M. Frayssinous, and 
surprised at having allowed himself to be thus entrapped, the strange candidate 
maintained so stately and formal a reserve, that the eloquent minister — a great 
master in point of conferences — saw this one come to an end without having 
produced any relaxation of the jealous rigidity of his interlocutor. On retiring, 
our humorist shook his head and remarked : He is not yet strong enough for vie. 
M. Eecamier received the nomination. 

Three years later, in 1830, M. Magendie was put in possession of the chair. 
It was then that he gave free course to his ardor for experimental art, and it is 
surprising to what an extent he lavished his experiments. Yet for this who 
can justly blame him 1 It was from these extemporized experiments that often 
sprung the boldest and most happy results. He had the gift of seizing phe- 
nomena in passing, and, as it were, on the wing. Endowed with keen curiosity, 
prompt and impulsive by nature, improvisation was of the essence of his genius. 

The success of haphazard experiments, however, is not art. Art demands, 
first of all, combination, reflection. It is not the experiment which investigates : 
it is the mind which investigates through the experiment ; it is the mind which 
discovers, which invents the means by which the discovery is made. Bufifon 
has said with a profound sense : " The best crucible is the understanding." 

The lessons of M. Magendie at the College of France have been collected in 
two separate works : one on the Nervous System ; the other on the Physical 
Phenomena of Life. The latter presents the professor under a new aspect. 



MEMOIR OF MAGENDIE. 103 

Bichat had exaggerated the part played by the vital properties ; M. Magendie 
exaggerates, in turn, the part played by iha physical 2)roperties.'^ Their oppo- 
sition has rendered both more useful ; it is only by multiplying special points 
of view that we arrive at a view of the whole. 

Through a profound alliance, which forms the nodus of life, everything in our 
organism concurs : the physicMl forces like the vital. And even these two 
orders of forces do not rtpresent the man in his completeness ; above the vital 
forces preside the psychical or intellectual forces. Sensibility is not a physical 
force, nor is thought a vital force. 

As there is a superior philosophy, so there are commodious philosophies. I 
call commodious^and without allusion to M. Magendie, who belonged to nonet — 
all philosophy which breaks its subject to pieces and takes a fragment for the 
whole. The superior and true philosophy embraces the complex being, and, 
in that complex being, arrives at unity, not by the arbitrary exclusion of such 
or such parts, but by a clear and distinct view of the precise function of each. 

M. Magendie would, for his part, have said with Pascal, though Avith less 
profound meaning: " We do not think the whole of philosophy worth an hour's 
trouble." His vocation did not lie therein, but was that of a great experiment- 
alist. Having received from Bichat the torch of experimental art, he bore it 
with a steady hand for forty years ; indefatigable in labor, bold in exploration, 
making no account of any sect, neither of materialism nor of vitalism, incapable 
of the spirit of sectarism, he sought truth with entire independence. This 
emancipated reason of his was his distinctive stamp, securing him the esteem 

* One of the points, of this kind, in which he has indulged the greatest exaggeration, is 
that whioh regards absorption ; this he reduces to imbibition ; but even here ^e exaggeration 
consists rather in the expressions than in the fundamental idea. He calls absorption a 
wholly physical phenomenon, and in this he is mistaken ; there is but one thing purely physi- 
cal about it, namely, the imbibition. 

He very properly says: " Now, we all know that every substance, whether acid or alka- 
line, wholesome or deleterious, is absorbed as soon as it is placed in contact with our tissues. 
There is herein nothing but a phenomenon of imbibition, and all that has been said of the 
intelligence of the pores is only a romance at present out of date." What he adds touching 
the different functions of the veins and lymphatic vessels in absorption is also very just: 
"No doubt the lymphatic vessels can absorb, since their walls, like those of the veins, are 
porous and susceptible of being imbibed with the liquids with which they happen to be in 
contact. Recall now the division which we have established in the mechanism of absorption. 
We there see two phenomena entirely distinct: on one hand, a local imbibition of the liquid ; 
on the other, a transfer of the liquid imbibed into the current of the circulation. The former 
property is common to the two orders of vessels ; but, as regards the second, do we find 
united in each the conditions necessary for its being effected? I have satisfied myself that, 
in most circumstances, the lymphatic vessels are not filled with liquid, nor traversed by an 
interior current ; hence, most frequently they are not, they cannot be agents of absorption. 
The veins, on the contrary, destined to convey without cessation the blood from the periphery 
to the centre, must, by just right, be considered as the habitual channels by which the liquids 
are absorbed." (Lei^ons sur (es phenomen. physig. de la vie, t. i.) 

t It is very true that he would willingly have explained everything by physical forces, if 
he could ; but he clearly distinguished in the living organism the physical from the vital. 
And who could confound them? The art is in separating them. "Begin always," he says, 
" by analyzing the phenomena, by isolating what is physical from what is vital." (Lcqons 
sur le syst. nerv., I, p. 4.) " I distinguish, in vitality, two great classes of phenomena: the 
one comTpvises physical phenomena, the other iiital phenomena.^^ (Lcq. surles phen. phys.de la 
vie, t. II, p. 14.) " Far be it from me," he further says, " to exaggerate the importance of 
physical explanations. Thus, why is it that, under the influence of a moral emotion, more 
or less vivid, we see the face redden or grow pale? There is here something peculiar, 
something which belongs not to the domain of physics." (Ibid., t. I, p. 202.) Elsewhere 
Le says : " To seek to explain a physical phenomenon by vital laws, only because that phe- 
nomenon occurs in a living body, is an idea quite as irrational as to speak of vitality in ref- 
erence to an inorganic body." ( Lcq. sur le syst. nerv., I, p. 3.) Finally, his conclusion 
thereupon is that "Physical laws lose nothing of their authority for being exercised in 
organized bodies. Observers only have been wanting to follow them into this living world, 
this microcosm of the ancients. Each function, each organ would easily furnish us the proof 
of it; and is it not, of itself, exhibited in the senses, the movements, the voice, the circulation 
■of the blood, &c.V' (Leg. sur les phen. phys. dc la vie, t. I, p. 310.) 



104 MEMOIE OF MAGENDIE. 

of thinkers, who know how little intellectual partisanship is worth, and the 
sympathy of the young, who delight to owe their convictions only to themselves. 

"Men pass," says the philosophic Bacon, "and knowledge is increased;" 
mulii pcrtransihunt et avgchiiur scientia. Haller, Bichat, Magendie, had 
scarcely constituted physiology, properly so called, the human physiology, when 
a much wider horizon was disclosed. Thanks to comparative anatomy, that 
antique study restored to our age, the view of the physkdogist has been enabled 
to embrace the total assemblage of living beings. To observation, to experi- 
ment, it has become possible to add the art, not less subtle and prolific, of unin- 
terrupted comparisons; comparisons have brought to view relations ; relations 
have guided us to laws. "Laws," says Montesquieu, "are the necessary rela- 
tions of things." 

A new philosophic spirit, born of science and superior to science itself, pro- 
pounds all the great questions of life, no longer studied only in each' particular 
being, but considered as a constituent element of the universe : its origin,'^its 
antiquity, its gradations, its successive variations ; it is a spirit which shrinks 
not from disentangling, from following up the profound relations which connect 
the history of life with the history of the globe; it sees the globe and life de- 
veloped by a common evolution ; concerted progress reveals the unity of design ; 
and to recall an eloquent phrase of the Eoman orator, " it almost lays hold .upon 
Him who governs and controls everything — ipsum cuncta moderantem et regen- 
tem pcne prchenderit." 

Towards the commencement of 1832 the ordinary course of M. Magendie's 
life was turned aside. Vague and ill-boding reports were spread abroad, nor 
was the phantom, though distant at first, slow in disengaging itself from its 
shadows and presenting to our excited imaginations the assurance of a coming 
pestilence. Then, when under the pressure of fear personal susceptibilities had 
become acute even to cruelty, the noblest of purposes formed itself in the mind 
of our colleague. Coming one day to our ordinary session he said to us : "I 
am a physician, and that vocation summons me to the focus of the eviL I go 
to Sunderland ; hoping that I shall be able to bring you thence, by studying 
the cholera in the place of its appearance, some useful indications ! Invest me, 
by delegation from your body, with more authority." Everywhere he was 
received with interest and respect. Having reached the seaport, the centre of 
contagion, he is informed that in a population of fishermen scattered along the 
neighboring coast had occurred the outbreak of the disease. Proceeding directly 
thither he finds collections of individuals exposed under miserable huts to all 
the rigors of humidity, imcleanness, and vice, living, sleeping, eating between 
the dead and the dying, and with instincts so brutal as to forbid the hope of any 
helpful intervention.* 

Ordinary contagion was not an admissible theory. When anxiously asked, 
on his return, " What is it 1 what shall we do ?" the only answer which could 
be drawn from him in his dejection was : " I do not clearly know." 

Paris was still throbbing under the dread presentiment when the pestilence, 
clearing the interval at a single bound, burst upon us like an explosion. Who 
does not remember that at the outbreak, the extreme violence of which had till 
then been unexampled on our continent, a man stricken was a man dead ? 
Summoned on the first attack, from that moment M. Magendie was no longer 
at his own disposal ; 'it was towards the hospital that he directed his steps. 
" The rich," he said, " will not want for physicians ;" and traversing the ranks 
of a deluded and infuriated crowd from which issued the cry : " Vengeance, 
death to the physicians, death to the poisoners !" he ascended the steps of the 
Hotel Dieu, renewing his self-forgetfulness on a thousand occasions in behalf of 



* He was accompanied in this expedition by M. Natalis Guillot, at present one of the 
most distinguished members of our Faculty. 



/ 



MEMOIR OF MAGENDIE. 105 

•wretches reduced to the state of an inert mass, feeling no pain but that of in- 
spiring distrust, and finding his recompense in the liberality with which his 
purse was emptied for the succor of such as were saved and restored to their 
families. 

The duration, the rigor of the pestilence found the forces of M. Magendie at 
their own level. Calm having been somewhat re-established, the cross of the 
legion of honor was sent to him. " I think it very well awarded," he remarked. 

Having satisfied his conscience, he returned to his labors, occupied himself 
anew with inquiries respecting the nervous system, resumed his instruction ; 
but his lectures on the cholera, and still more his bearing, evinced that this man, 
who was accused of insensibility, had not passed with impunity through an 
interval of heart-rending emotions. Impel'ed by a secret preoccupation, he ap- 
plied himself to an investigation of the agents under the influence of which epi- 
demic maladies may be generated. 

Being shut up one day in his laboratory, he was giving his whole attention 
to an experiment, when lifting his eyes they met those of a sedate and portly 
personage who, in abrupt tones, asked to speak with Magendie. From the first 
glance at the broad-brimmed hat scrupulously kept on the head, the short 
breeches, the peculiar cut of the vesture, the experimenter comprehended the 
quality of his visitor. " I had heard speak of thee," said the Quaker, " and was 
not misinformed ; I come to say to thee that thou shouldst desist from these 
experiments. Who has permitted thee to dispose of the life of these animals ?" 
" Your countryman Harvey," replied M. Magendie, " would not have discovered 
the circulation of the blood if he could not have sacrificed the deer in the park 
of Charles I. Here science contends against the maladies inflicted on humanity, 
as elsewhere war contends against the incursions of barbarism. Perhaps," he 
added with complaisant deference, " you would condemn the chase." "Cer- 
tainly," replied the inflexible Quaker ; " I condemn the chase, I condemn war, 
and experiments upon animals ; man therein assumes rights which do not belong 
to him : I mean to prove it, and I shall travel until I have made those wrongs 
disappear from the world." Probably this reformer is still on his travels. 

A sojourn in the country came very opportunely to diversify our savant's 
course of Hfe. Under the influence of a smoother existence this heretofore un- 
manageable nature was led to unbend itself. He had married ; he saw that he 
was understood even in the foibles of his character, and, like a man of sense, 
took the part of laughing at them. " I agree," he said resignedly, " that I am 
nothing but a real bull-dog." Happy days were ushered in by this frankness ; 
friendly neighbors came around him to applaud his experiments on vegetation, 
on agricultural ameliorations, attempts which, he said, might enrich science and 
the country, but whose immediate result was to diminish his own fortune. To 
fire-side happiness, to the charms of a lively society, he joined the pleasure of 
doing good. For the suffering in his neighborhood, dispensing with a part of 
his medical principles, he had established in his house a small, but very small 
pharmacy. Of all remedies that which he oftenest put in practice was to pay 
the invalid for the consultation which the invalid received. 

No trace of the republican recklessness and rudeness remained, except per- 
haps in the malign pleasure which from time to time M. Magendie still allowed 
himself, of demolishing all our governments ; and that with so hearty a denun- 
ciation that a judicious friend once said to him : " If to-day a government were 
created to your mind, in six weeks you would find it the most detestable in the 
world." " Very possibly," he replied. " It is certain, however, that not one 
of them can boast of having received a solicitation from me." 

It was, in eff'ect, without solicitation that in 1848, on the establishment of the 
consultative commission of public hygiene, he was nominated its president. 
The firmness with which he interdicted the admission of all charlatanism into 
this institution, the clearness and justness of his views, rendered his influence 



106 MEMOIE OF MAGENDIE, 

ttere of great utility ; there, as everywhere else, he commanded general esteem, 
and more than elsewhere showed himself accessible to friendship. He had 
eight years before been called by the ministry of war to the presidency of the 
commission of hippiatric hygiene. Here the information which he conveyed 
became the source of ameliorations of which our cavalry still enjoys the benefit. 
In 1851 the cross of commander of the legion of honor was sent to him; at 
this, however, he took umbrage, fearing that the services which he had rendered 
would thus lose the merit of disinterestedness. 

A grave alteration which manifested itself in the health of M. Magendie 
revealed that one of the organs essential to life was attacked. Thenceforth he 
came but rarely to our meetings ; thenceforth there survived for us, in place of 
the capricious and difficult colleague, only the man of uncontested eminence. 
Nothing was remembered but that undeviating rectitude which gave so much 
strength to the personal attachments of which he was the object ; and when, 
still later, it was known that the malady had become more serious, devoted dis- 
ciples, grateful pupils, relations, friends, colleagues felt a common alarm ; asperi- 
ties were forgotten. It was said by Fontenelle of an academician of his time : 
" Those who might have had something to complain of in regard to his blunt- 
ness, all went to see him ; he was touched by the expression of sentiments which 
he had merited more than he had attracted." M. Magendie also received with 
cordiality and acknowledgment the expression of the sentiments he had merited. 
" Know," said he to his old competitors, " that my asperity increased in pro- 
portion to the worth which I recognized in those towards whorti I exercised it." 
So ingenious is self-love that each found in this strange mode of appreciation 
wherewith to be satisfied. 

It was impossible to enter the room of the invalid without being struck with 
the grief which impressed the countenance of a servant whom thirty years* con- 
tact had rendered the grotesque but faithful copy of his master. Watching 
anxiously by his pillow this attendant heard him announce, with calmness, the 
hour of separation. " Courage, my good master," he exclaimed, carried away 
by a pious attachment, " courage, I beseech you ; we shall still grumble on 
together." 

The moral force which this upright man had so studiously cultivated was 
respected by the malady. His sufferings did not distract him ; he studied them 
as phenomena. "You see me here completing my experiments," were his 
parting words to a colleague ; " never has the science to which I have devoted 
all my strength appeared to me environed with more grandeur ; the springs of 
life, so marvellously combined, are quickened in order to make of each of us an 
instrument of passage, which in perishing is regenerated. In my restricted 
course may I but have succeeded in planting some way-marks along the route 
which leads to Truth, the sole power to which I have subordinated my 
reason !" 

M. Magendie died the 7th of October, 1855 



MEMOIR OF MAGENDIE. 107 



APPENDIX I. 

ON THE DISCOVERY OF THE DISTINCT FUNCTIONS OF THE ROOTS OF THE 

NERVES. 

I. — M. Bell published, in 1811, a pamphlet, under tlie following title : Idea of 
a New Anatomy of the Brain, suhmiited for the observations of his friends. In 
this he first announces his ingenious idea that each nerve, which is both motive 
and sensitive, is a double nerve, and secondly describes his experiment. In re- 
gard to his idea of double nerves, or, as the author calls them, mixed nerves, he 
says : " I have to offer reasons for believing that * * the nerves which we 
trace in the body are not single nerves possessing various powers, but bundles 
of different nerves, whose filaments are united for the convenience of distribu- 
tion, but Avhich are distinct in office as they are in their origin from the brain." 
(Bell : The Nervous System of the Human Body, &c.; 3d edition, Edinburgh, 1836, 
p. 442.) He adds : " Considering that the spinal nerves have a double root, and 
being of opinion that the properties of the nerves are derived from their connec- 
tions with the parts of the brain, I thought that I had an opportunity of putting 
my opinion to the test of experiment, and of proving at the same time that nerves 
of different endowments were in the same cord and held together by the same 
sheath." {Ibid, p. 443.) In stating his experiment, M.Bell says : " On laying 
bare the roots of the spinal nerves, I found that I could cut across the posterior 
fasciculus of nerves which took its origin from the posterior portion of the spinal 
marrow without convulsing the muscles of the back ; but that on touching the 
anterior fasciculus with the point of the knife, the muscles of the back were im- 
mediately convulsed." [Ibid, p. 443.) 

We thus see what was done by Bell : first, it was he who first conceived that 
each nerve might be double, or composed of two ; secondly, it was he who, be- 
fore all other physiologists, directed experiment to the roots of the nerves ; thirdly, 
from his experiment, however incomplete, he arrived at the conclusion of a dis- 
tinct function for each root. All this was accomplished by M. Bell ten years 
before the researches of M. Magendie, 

II. — The titles of Magendie to the important discovery are distributable into 
two series : by the first he completed the labors of Bell ; by the second he dis- 
covered the recurrent sensibility. I shall begin by reproducing entire the first 
" Note " of M. Magendie, and it will be seen how felicitous was his insight on 
this first attempt. His first introspection was in fact always the surest. 

Experiments on the functions of the roots of the rachidian nerves, hj M. Ma- 
gendie ; 22d July, 1822 : " I had long desired to make an experiment in cutting, 
in some animal, the posterior roots of the nerves which spring from the spinal 
marrow. I had several times attempted it without succeeding, on account of the 
diflBculty of opening the vertebral canal without injuring the medulla, and con- 
sequently destroying or at least sorely wounding the animal. Last month, a 
litter of eight pups, six weeks old, was brought to my laboratory, and these 
seemed well suited for a renewal of the attempt to open the vertebral canal. lu 
effect, I was able, by the use of a very sharp scalpel, and so to say at a single 
stroke, to lay bare the posterior half of the spinal marrow surrounded by its 
envelopes. To have this organ almost naked, it only remained for me to cut the 
dura-mater which encloses it, and this was done with facility ; I had then before 
my eyes the posterior roots of the lumbar and the sacral pairs, and by raising 
them successively with the blades of the small scissors I could cut them on one 
side, while the marrow remained untouched. I knew not what would be the re- 
sult of this attempt ; but I reunited the wound by a suture of the skin and ob- 
served the animal. I at first thought the member corresponding to the nerves 



108 MEMOIR OF MAGENDIE. 

entirely paralyzed ; it was insensible to punctures and to the strongest pressure ; 
it seemed also to be immovable. But presently, to my great surprise, I saw it 
move very apparently, altliougli the sensibility was all the time wholly extinct. 
A second, a third experiment gave me exactly the same result ; 1 began to regard 
it as probable that the posterior roots of the rachidian nerves might well have 
different functions from the anterior roots, and that they were more particularly 
destined for sensibility. 

"It naturally occurred to my mind to cut the anterior roots, leaving the pos- 
terior ones undisturbed ; but such an undertaking was more easy to conceive 
than to execute ; how could it be possible to uncover the anterior part of the 
medulla without injuring the posterior roots 1 I confest; that at first the thing 
appeared to me impracticable ; yet for two days I never ceased thinking about 
it, and finally decided to attempt to pass before the posterior roots a sort of knife 
for cataract, whose very narrow blade would allow of cutting the roots by press- 
ing them with the edge of the instrument on the posterior face of the body of 
the vertebrae ; but I was obliged to renounce this expedient on account of the 
large veins which the canal contains on that side, and which were opened at every 
movement in advance. In making these essays, I perceived that by pulling 
upon the vertebral dura mater I could discern the anterior roots linited in fasci- 
cles, just when they are about to penetrate that membrane. I wanted nothing 
more, and in a few moments I had cut all the pairs which I wished to divide. 
As in the preceding experiments, I made the section only on one side, in order 
to have a term of comparison. Ifc may readily be conceived with what curiosity 
I followed the effects of this section, nor were they ambiguous ; the member was 
completely motionless and lax, while it preserved a sensibility not at all equivo- 
cal. Finally, to neglect nothing, I have cut at once the anterior and posterior 
roots ; there was then an absolute loss both of sensibility and movement. 

" I have repeated and varied these experiments on several species of animals ; 
the results just announced were confirmed in the most complete manner, whether 
as regards the anterior or posterior members. I am prosecuting the researches, 
and will give a more detailed account in the coming number ; it suffices that at 
present 1 am enabled to assert that the anterior and posterior roots of the nerves 
which issue from the spinal marrow have different functions ; that the posterior 
appear more particularly destined for sensibility, while the anterior seem more 
specially connected with movement." 

Having seen the first note of M. Magendie, let us pass to the second ; the 
retrograde step cannot fail to occasion surprise : 

Note on the functions of the roots of the nerves which spring from the spinal 
marrow ; October 22, 1822 : "The facts which I announced in the preceding 
number are too important not to have led me to seek to elucidate them by new 
researches. I wished first to ascertain if the anterior or the posterior roots of the 
spinal nerves might not be cut without opening 'the great canal of the vertebral 
dura mater ; for, by exposing the spinal marrow to the air and to a cold temperature, 
the nervous action is sensibly enfeebled, and consequently the results sought 
for are obtained in a manner but little apparent. 

" The anatomical disposition of the parts rendered this not impossible, for each 
fasciculus of a spinal root proceeds for some time in a particular canal before 
uniting and being confounded with the other fasciculus. In effect, I have found 
that by means of scisSors blunted at the point, enough of the films and lateral 
parts of the vertebra might be removed to expose to view the ganglion of 
each lumbar pair; and then with a small stylet the canal containing the pos- 
terior roots may be separated Avithout any insurmountable difiiculty, and there 
is no further impediment to the accomplishment of the section. This mode of 
making the experiment has yielded me the same results with those I had already 
observed; but as the experiment is much longer and more laborious than by 



MEMOIR OF MAGENDIE 109 

following the process in which the great canals of the spinal dura mater is 
opened, I do not think that this method of making the experiment should be 
pursued in preference to the former. 

" I desired afterwards to submit to a particular proof the results of which I 
have previously spoken. Every one knows that the nux vomica causes in man and 
animals general and very violent convulsions. It was a matter of curiosity to 
know whether these convulsions would still take place in a member whose 
nerves of motion had been cut, and whether they would show themselves as 
strong as usual when the section of the nerves of sensation had been made. 
The result has proved altogether accordant with those preceding that is to say, 
that in an animal in which the posterior roots were cut, the tetanus was com- 
pleted and as intense as if the spinal roots had been all intact ; on the contrary, 
in an animal in which I had cut the nerves' of movement of one of the 
posterior members, that member has remained supple and motionless at the 
moment when, under the influence of the poison, all the other muscles of the 
body underwent tetanic convulsions of the most decided kind. 

"By directly irritating the nerves of sensation or the posterior spinal roots, 
would contractions be produced? Would direct irritation of the nerves of 
motion excite pain % Such are the questions which I proposed to myself, and 
which experiment alone could resolve. 

" I commenced by examining under this aspect the posterior roots or nerves 
of sensation. What I have observed is this : on pinching, pulling, pricking 
these roots, the animal evinces pain, but not to be compared, for intensity, with 
that which is developed if the spinal marrow be touched, even lightly, at the 
place whence these roots spring. Nearly every time that the posterior roots 
are thus excited, contractions are produced in the muscles where the nervers are 
distributed ; these contractions are, however, but sl'ghtly marked, and vastly 
more feeble than when the medulla itself is touched; when at the same time a 
fasciculus of the posterior roots is cut, a movement of the whole is produced in 
the member to which the fasciculus proceeds. 

*' The same trials were made upon the anterior fosciculi, and analogous results 
obtained, but in an inverse sense ; for the contractions excited by pinching, 
pricking, &c., are very strong and even convulsive, while the signs of sensibility 
are scarcely visible. Tiiese facts, then, are confirmative of those which I have 
announced ; only, they seem to establish that sensation resides not exclusively 
in the posterior roots, any more than movement in the anterior. Yet one diffi- 
culty may be raised. When, in the experiments which precede, the roots have 
been cut, they were continuous with the spinal marrow : might not the shock 
communicated to this be the real origin both of the contractions and of the pain 
experienced by the animals ? To resolve this doubt, I have repeated the experi- 
ments after having separated the roots from the medulla, and would say that 
except in two animals in which I observed contractions when I pinched or pulled 
the anterior and posterior fasciculi, I perceived in all the other cases no sensi- 
ble efi'ect from the irritation of the anterior or posterior roots thus separated 
from the medulla. 

"I had still another kind of test to which to submit the spinal roots : this was 
galvanism. I have, consequently, excited those parts by this means; first 
while leaving them in their ordinary state, and then by cutting them at their 
spinal extremity, so as to place them on an isolating body. In these difilerent 
cases I have obtained contractions with the two kinds of roots, but the con- 
tractions which followed the excitation of the anterior roots were, in general, 
much stronger and more complete than those produced when the electric current 
was established by the posterior ones. The same phenomena took place whether 
the zinc or copper pole were applied on the nerve. 

"It would now remain to render an account of the researches which I have 
made in attempting to follow the isolated sensation and movement beyond the 



110 MEMOIR OF MAGENDIE. 

roots of the nerves — that is to. say, in the spinal marrow ; with this I shall by and 
by be occupied. Before terminating this article I should offer some explanations 
respecting the novelty of the results which I have announced. 

" When I wrote the note contained in the preceding number I believed myself 
the first to have thought of cutting the root of the spinal nerves ; but I was un- 
deceived by a communication from M. Schaw, a young and studious physician, 
on recefving the last number of my journal. He informs me that M. Ch. Bell 
had made this section thirteen years before, and had ascertained that the section 
of the posterior roots did not prevent the movements from continuing. M. 
Schaw adds that M. Bell had recorded this result in a small pamphlet, printed 
solely for his friends, not for publication. Having requested of M. Schaw to 
send me this pamphlet, if possible, in order that I might render fall justice to 
the author, I received it a few days after; its title is. Idea of a new anatomy 
of tJie brain, submitted for tJie observations oj" Ms friends, by Ch. Bell, F. A.S.K. 
It is curious, certainly, to remark therein the germ of the recent discoveries of 
the author on the nervous system, and I transcribe entire the passage indicated 
by Dr. Schaw : 

" ' Considering that the spinal nerves have a double root, and being of opinion 
that the properties of the nerves are derived from their connections with the parts 
of the brain, I thought that I had an opportunity of putting my opinion to the 
test of experiment, and of proving at the same time that nerves of different en- 
dowments were in the same cord and held together by the same sheath. On 
laying bare the roots of the spinal nerves I found that I could cut across the 
posteiior fasciculus of nerves which took its origin from the posterior portion of 
the spinal marrow without convulsing the muscles of the back, but that on touching 
the anterior fasciculus with the point of the knife the muscles of the back were 
immediately convulsed.' 

" It will be seen by this citation from a work which I could not know, since 
it was not made public, that M. Bell, guided by his ingenious ideas on the 
nervous system, very nearly arrived at a discovery of the functions of the spinal 
roots ; yet, the fact that the anterior are destined for motion, while the posterior 
pertain more particularly to sensation, appears to have escaped him ; it is to the 
having established this fact in a positive manner, therefore, that I must limit my 
pretensions." 

Reply of M. Bell to M. Magendie. For the convenience of the discussion 
M. Bell attributes this reply to a pupil, but this pupil may well have been M. 
Bell himself : * 

" Although the original experiments (those, namely, of M. Bell) have much 
more value in all their results than those which have been reported by M. 
Magendie, yet it is noticeable that the latter, when he found himself compelled 
shortly after to abandon his pretensions to novelty, had the assurance'to affirm 
that the experiments made by himself were the most careful. It was really 
amusing to see M. Magendie make a parade of superior exactness, when, in the 
same memoir, instead of persisting in his first decision, he changes in the most 
essential manner what he had established respecting the functions of the nerve-s 
in question. In this second publication on the subject, he gives a relation 
altogether different from that which he had offered in his previous memoir. 

" The results derived by M. Magendie from his first experiments were alto- 
gether accordant with those which our author had announced in 1811. Con- 
sequently, when an account of them arrived in this country, and it was seen that 
he gave this discovery as original, measures were taken to make known to the 

* I am indebted for the commtiBication of this paper to M. Benjamin Brodie, a highly 
competent judge in the matter. M. Brodie knew M. Magendie well, and, in writing to me, 
justly places him not far from Haller and Bichat : from Haller, of whom he had not the 
erudition ; from Bichat, of whom he had not the expansive views ; but equal to both, and per- 
haps superior, for industry in the invention of experiments and skill in their execution. 



MEMOIR OF MAGENDIE. Ill 

profession to wliom it was that the merit of the discovery really pertained. In 
this there was no difficulty; but M. Magendie having abandoned the opinions set 
forth in his first memoir, and adopted views diametrically opposite to those of 
Sir Ch. Bell, there was no further question of priority between them ; the ques- 
tion then presented was not to determine who had first seen, but who bad seen 
aright.* 

" It is proper to say that if the views given by M, Magendie in his second 
memoir on the functions of the roots of the spinal nerves had been exact, they 
would have left us no hope of ameliorating our knowledge respecting the nervous 
system by reasonings founded on anatomy. The fundamental part of the 
original doctrine was that the nervous root yielding the sensation is altogether 
distinct from that which supplies movement ;t that these properties are so different 
in their nature that they cannot both pertain to the same nerve ; that when a 
nerve, in its passage, possesses at once movement and sensation, it is a sign that 
it is a double nerve, composed at its origin of two roots, one the source of sen- 
sation, the other the source of movement; that it is not reasonable to suppose 
that a nerve can conduct the nervous influence in two opposite directions at once, 
as would be necessary if a nerve transmitted at the same time the motive power 
and received the sensations. Now, what M. Magendie presents in his second 
memoir.l as being of such remarkable exactness, tends directly to overthrow all 
this. Each of the two roots, as he views it, can at the same time transmit move- 
ment and sensation ; it is not true that the anterior root is exclusively for move- 
ment, and the posterior for sensation ; the former partakes to a certain degree the 
function of the latter, and the latter that of the former; all that can be alleged 
respecting the distinction between the two roots is that the anterior has more 
influence as a nerve of movement than the posterior, and the posterior more in- 
fluence as a nerve of sensation than the anterior; that the anterior may confer 
sensation, and the posterior movement," &c. 

Remarks of M. Magendie on lite occasion of a note of M. Flourens, "March \, 
1847 : "I must thank M. Flourens for having given before the academy the ex- 
planations which I asked of him in the preceding session. The greater part of 
the facts which he cites seem to me exact ; only he interprets them in a manner 
which I cannot admit. 

" And first, if I have maintained silence in the circumstance recalled by my 
colleague, no one is authorized to regard it as a sort of abandonment of my right; 
for the report made to the academy for the prize of physiology of 1841 says, in 
so many words, that I had thought right to excuse mysef as not competent to 
he judge and party in questions in which I was so much concerned. I pass 
now to the researches of Ch. Bell. 

" It was I Avho first made these researches known in France. I analyzed 
them in my Journal de Physiologic. I even signalized their originality at a 
public sitting of the Academy of Sciences ; and if the discovery that is now 
sought to be attributed to the English physiologist had been announced, or even 
indicated in his memoirs, I had certainly not failed to give it the greatest promi- 
nence and to point out all its importance. He was himself well satisfied with 
the reception which I gave to his labors. The proof that he recognized my 
having rendered him full justice, is the fact that, the 10th of June, 1822, he 

* All this is well enough said and very true, as long as abstraction is made of the recurrent 
sensibility, or the latter is not known, as was the ease with M. Hell. 

t Agreed : such is in effect of the fundamental part of the original doctrine — exclusivcness of 
action. But in truth there is something more ; there is the mobile sensibility of the anterior root. 
M. Bell did not see it, but some physiologist would in the end have seen it, and so long as 
some physiologist, as skilful as M. Magendie, should not have discovered the character of 
reversion, of derivation, the fine principle of exclusivcness could not have been admissible. 

t In this second memoir, M. Magendie is mistaken; but how fortunate the mistake (.felix 
culpa) which leads us to the discovery of recurrent sensibility! (See further on what' I say 
under the title of Conclusion.) 



112 MEMOIR OF MAGEJ^'DIE. 

wrote in his journal : ' My discoveries have made more impression in France 
than here ; I'have received a second letter from Magendie, where he says that 
if I would send him a short analysis of my experiments, I would receive the 
medal decreed by the institute.' (Biography of Sir Charles Bell, British 
Review, October, 1846.) Whoever knows the susceptibility and jealous character 
of Charles Bell will readily agree that he would not have expressed himself in 
this manner regarding a stranger who had omitted in an appreciative account of 
his labors the finest of his discoveries. 

" On the occasion of my first publications respecting the functions of the roots, 
M. Schaw wrote to me that Ch. Bell had formerly made some experiments 
analogous to mine. He sent me a small pamphlet, dated 1811, and which had 
been communicated only to the author's friends, with a view, as he said, to have 
their opinion touching his new but still undecided ideas on the anatomy of the 
brain. I lost no time in transcribing word for word, in my Journal of Physiology, 
the passages which had reference to the roots, and I took care to add that neither 
myself nor any one else in France had the least suspicion of the existence of 
this tract. Fortunately for my own researches, it contained nothing which 
touched upon the capital fact, the distinction, namely, between the two rachidian 
roots — these as nerves of sensation, those as nerves of movement. 

"In effect, Ch. Bell, preoccupied with his ideas on irritability, simply says 
that in cutting the posterior root, he had produced no contraction in the muscles, 
while the muscles were contracted when he touched with the point of the instrument 
the anterior root. Such is the experiment as he describes it. We see that not 
only had he not distinguished the roots into sensitive and motive, but that even 
the word sensibility had not been pronounced. How could it be otherwise, 
since he operated only on animals recently dead ? 

" In fine, Ch. Bell had had before me, but without my knowledge, the idea 
of separately cutting the rachidian roots ; he had also had the merit of discovering 
that the anterior influences the muscular contractility more than the posterior. 
As regards priority in this, I have, from the first, done him entire justice ; but 
when the question relates to having established that these roots have distinct 
properties and functions — that the anterior preside over movement, and the 
posterior over sensation — this discovery I must claim as my own. Ch. Bell had 
not indicated, nor even caught a glimpse of it, since it in no wise results from 
the experiment which he relates. It is therefore my own work, and must 
remain as one of the columns of the monument reared by French physiology 
since the commencement of the present century." 

Of recurient sensibility. — The discovery of recurrent sensibility was the 
result of the second series of M. Magendie's researches. On this interesting 
subject, which he alone had yet ventured to attempt, the following is his first 
Note, (May 20, 1839,) containing the summary of his new experiments on the 
nervous system : 

"The sensitive nerves and the rachidian motors are equally sensible when 
they are both intact.* If we cut the sensitive nerves, the motor nerves imme- 
diately lose their sensibility.! If the motor nerves are cut in the middle, the 
end which remains attached to the spinal marrow is wholly insensible ; the op- 
posite end preserves, on the contrary, an extreme sensibility.^ In that case, 
the sensibility proceeds from the circumference to the centre.§ If the sensitive 
nerves be cut at their middle part, the end which attaches to the marrow is 
highly sensible; the end which attaches to the ganglion has, on the contrary, 
lost all sensibility. "II 

We come now to Xho, last Note of M. Magendie on the recurrent sensibility, 
which is also the most important, June 28, 1847 : 

*An assured fact, if account be taken of the recurrent seasibility. t A real fact and wholly 
new. X Again a fact, and still a new one. ^ Evidently. 1| Comptes rendus de V Academic des 
Sciences, t. viii, p. 76. 



MEMOIR OF MAGENDIE. 113 

"Scientific discoveries have very diiFerent destinies. Some, accepted with 
enthusiasm from their very origin, traverse the woi'ld, everywhere exciting ad- 
miration. So vast and focile is their success that we are tempted to assign them 
to [hat cLass of brilHant errors which spring up at periods only too frequent to 
satisfy an imperious necessity of the human mind, that, namely, of being de- 
ceived. Other discoveries remain in the obscurity in which they are produced, 
imtil some fortunate circumstance occurs to throAV light upon them and confer 
renown on their authors. Others still, which at first enjoy a certain lustre, foil 
to surmount the ill-will of cotemporaries, and after having striven for recognition, 
eventually vanish and sink into oblivion, if they do not meet in time with some 
efficacious succor. A remark of some importance which I had the honor of 
presenting to the academy in 1839, and which may be regarded, I think, as a 
discovery, happens unfortunately to fall at this time within the last category. 

" I shall not here recount its vicissitudes ; I shall only say that it has been 
twice condemned by committees of the academy, since these committees have 
conferred a prize on two works in which my discovery is qualified as erroneous. 
Sustained by such respectable authority, it is the right of every one to think 
that I have labored under an illusion, (a thing in itself quite possible, for who- 
ever investigates is liable to err.) 

" Another ground may have existed for the same conclusion. I was a member 
of the two committees; I abstained from co-operating with them, as it was proper 
that I should; but it was in my power to have protested, and yet I have main- 
tained a silence which has been doubtless construed as a tacit acknowledgment 
of my error, although, in truth, it had a wholly diff'ereut signification. Prob- 
ably my honorable colleagues acted on this occasion upon the maxim , Amicus 
Plato, sed magis arnica Veritas. I am myself a strong partisan of this wise 
maxim, and I have more than once put it in practice, taking care, however, to 
prefer to Plato nothing but truth. 

"Why did my honorable colleagues not consult me? Why not ask to see 
my experiments, which I should have been only too ready to repeat before 
them ? I can only explain it by a sentiment of benevolent discretion towards 
a colleague whose position might appear to them embarrassing. However this 
may be, to foreclose all discussion, I concede that those who have not seen my 
experiments might well regard my discovery as seriously compromised; for un- 
fortunately the physiologists who have thought proper to reproduce them have 
done so in such a manner that it was impossible for them to verify the results. 
Yet the fact in question is one which I regard as opening a new Avay to experi- 
mental researches on the functions, still so obscure, of the nervous system. 
There rests, then, on me an obligation to recur to this point of physiology, and 
to put it in the power of every one to verify the exactness of the results which 
I made known in 1839. 

"Let us first state in what consists the phenomenon which in the year just 
mentioned I denominated sensibility en retour, but which at present 1 think it 
preferable to call recurrent sensibility. 

" If we lay bare, with suitable precautions, a pair of the rachidian nerves, we 
ghall recognize that the two roots are sensitive, but that they are so by very 
different titles. In the posterior, the source of the sensibility is at the centre 
, and diffuses itself to the circumference; in the anterior, on the contrary, the 
origin of the sensibility is at the periphery and is propagated towards the centre. 
It is for this reason that I give to the latter the name of recurrent sensibility. 

" To prove that the sensibility of the anterior root really proceeds from the 
periphery, I divide it transversely towards the middle of its length, and of the 
two ends which result from its section, that at the periphery remains sensitive, while 
the central is insensible. To demonstrate that this sensibility of the anterior ra- 
chidian root is acquired and that it takes its source in the corresponding poste- 
rior root, I divide likewise this last, and instantly the anterior root loses all its 
8 s66 



114 MEMOIR OF MAGENDIE. 

sensibility. Of the two ends whicli result from tlie section of tliis posterior 
root, that which adheres to the ganglion has become insensible, while that 
attached to the medulla still possesses an acute sensibility. Hence this root di- 
rectly receives its sensibility from the spinal marrow. 

" I shall dwell no further on these results, which are literally the same that I 
announced to the academy in 1839, and which I have demonstrated in ray 
lectures at the College of France ; I will only add that I maintain them to 
be rigorously exact, and that I am now, as then, always ready to exhibit them 
to those who signify a desire that I should do so. At present I proceed to 
report certain facts which are of a nature to throw new light on the phenomenon 
of the recurrent sensibility of the anterior roots. 

"Differing in this from the posterior roots, which are constantly sensible, it 
sometimes happens that on interrogating the anterior root we find it deprived of 
sensibility. This is particularly observable when, the opening of the rachis and 
the separation of the root having been laborious, the animals are weakened by 
pain and loss of blood. But this insensibility is only temporary; it suffices to 
wait a few instants, and the phenomenon reappears and subsists as long as the 
state of the wound and of the environing parts allows of its being observed. 

"This momentary disappearance of sensibility in the nerve is a very singular 
phenomenon which pertains to the recurrent sensibility, and which distinguishes 
it essentially from the direct sensibility of the posterior root, a sensibility which 
I have never known completely to disappear. When, however, the experiment 
is suitably made, we recognize immediately, on the opening of the rachis, the 
recurrent sensibility of the anterior root, and I have realized that, to succeed, 
the best process is that in which the spinal marrow is laid bare only on one side 
and to the extent of one or two vertebras. I have moreover remarked that, when 
the experiment has been as well performed as possible, if the animal has lost a 
certain quantity of blood, the phenomenon is not manifested ; and I add that, at 
the moment when it is most apparent, it may be made to disappear by the opera- 
tion of blood-letting. 

" In my first experiments, before I knew the influence of the causes just pointed 
out, it had happened that I had found the anterior roots sometimes sensible, 
sometimes insensible. This result, which might then have appeared contra 
dictory, is, however, but the rigorous expression of the facts, and depends on 
that remarkable peculiarity, that a sensitive nerve may, imder certain influences, 
temporarily lose it sensibility and afterwards recover it. 

"The sensibility which I call recurrent does not pertain exclusively to the 
anterior roots of the rachidian nerves ; 1 have found it also in the facial nerve, 
and it exists probably in still other nerves. I am now occupied with researches 
in this respect, and shall probably have the honor of communicating them to 
the academy. I shall merely add to this note the recital of some experiments 
which I have made with my habitual collaborator, Dr. Bernard, well known to the 
academy, and who has taken the trouble to describe them. First experiment : In 
a living and healthy dog, three to four months old, the lumbar medulla was laid 
bare on the right side to the extent of two vertebrae ; the nervous roots ex- 
posed wore the fourth and fifth lumbar. Immediately after the experiment, by 
which the animal was somewhat distressed, the anterior root of the fourth lumbar 
pair was pinched and yielded no manifest signs of sensibility ; neither did the 
anterior root of the fifth lumbar pair. Those two roots were then cut in such a 
way that there might result from the section peripheric ends and ends adjoining 
the marrow. The animal evinced no pain at the moment of the section of the an- 
terior nervous roots, and the pressure upon these two ends of nerves, resulting 
from the section of the root, produced no evident signs of sensibility. Afterwards 
the facial nerve on the jaw was laid bare anditsbranches were transversely divided, 
when again the peripheric ends, on being pricked, manifested no signs of sensibility. 
After these first trials the animal was left for some moments at rest from the general 



MEMOIR OF MAGENDIE. 115 

disturbance caused by the experiment. It then became possible to verify in the 
clearest manner the sensibility of the peripheric ends of the anterior roots of the 
fourth and fifth lumbars. The peripheric ends of the branches of the facial nerve 
also evinced sensibility in tho most distinct mannei*. This recurrent sensibility 
of the anterior lumbar roots and of the facial nerve was prolonged with equal 
intensity during the whole day. Four hoiu-s after the experiment, the acute 
sensibility of the peripheric ends of the lumbar roots and of the facial nerve was 
still found to exist in the most lively activity, and continued to do so even the 
next day, (twenty-four hours after the experiment,) notwithstanding the com- 
mencement of swelling and suppuration of the wounds. Second cxprrinient : 
In a lively and healthy dog, of medium size and from four to five months old, 
the lumbar medulla was laid bare on the right side to the extent of a single 
vertebra, the pair exposed being the fifth lumbar nerves. The anterior root of 
this nervous pair being lightly disengaged, was pricked and found to be evidently 
sensible. After this sensibility had been verified at several intervals, the anterior 
root was cut, and the peripheric end found to retain its sensibility, while the end 
adjoining the marrow had become completely insensible. The wound of the 
back was then sewed up. On being examined anew five hours afterwards, 
nothing had changed ; the sensibility of the peripheric end of the anterior root 
remained in full activity, and the complete insensibility of the central end was 
persistent. The corresponding posterior root was now cut, and pain and agita- 
tion were apparent. But the recurrent sensibility of the anterior root immediately 
disappeared ; so that of the four nervous extremities resulting from the division 
of the anterior and posterior roots, there was but one, the central end of the 
posterior root, in which sensibility continued to be lively. Twenty-two hours 
after the experiment the wound had become fetid, suppuration having com- 
menced ; yet the exquisite sensibility of the central end of the posterior root, 
ard the complete insensibility of the three other ends, could be distinctly verified. 
Third and fourth experiments : From these, made on animals from four to six 
months old, the same facts residt, namely : sensibility en retour of the anterior 
roots, and of the facial. Sometimes at the very moment of the experiment thi.> 
recun-eut sensibility is nol quite evident, and it is then necessary to wait some 
instants for the animal to recover a little from the disturbance caused by the 
pain of the experiment. It was then ascertained that the section of the posterior 
root caused the recurrent sensibility of the anterior root constantly to disappear, 
and this even eighteen hours after the operation. It was seen also that the 
sensibility en retour of the anterior root having been once destroyed reappeared 
no more, however long a time it might be waited for. Fifth experiment: I\rade 
on an adult dog, with the same constant results of the recurrent sensibility persist- 
ing till the next day; (the root was attached with a thread.) Sixth experiment : 
Two lumbar vertebrae of an adult dog were laid bare, and it was found, after 
the animal had been left at rest for some ten minutes, that the anterior roots 
were sensible ; the animal was then bled, and this sensibility en retour disap- 
peared, while the sensibility of the posterior roots was always persistent." 

Conclusion. — I have repeated all the experiments of M. Magendie on the 
recurrent sensibility, as well alone as in company with M. Bernard, and have 
caused them to be repeated perhaps twenty times in my laboratory by my aide- 
naturalists. Dr. Philipeaux, whose skilful and practiced hand may justly be re- 
^garded as an additional guarantee. I have thus verified, even to the smallest 
details, all that M. Magendie had observed, and all that he has recounted in his 
Note of 1S47. To reproduce these experiments with success, care must be taken 
to practice them under the requisite conditions : First, to open the rachis but on 
one side. Second, to expose the roots of but one or, at most, of two nerves. 
Third, not to explore the roots until the lapse of five or six hours after the first 
operation, in order that the animal may have recovered from the disturbance at' 



IIG MEMOIE OF MAGENDIE. 

first experienced from the blood lost, and that the wound which has become cold 
may have regained a certain degree of heat and reaction. 

These experiments prove : First, that the posterior root is exclusively and 
essentially sensitive ; I say essentially, because if we divide the anterior root 
the posterior remains not the less sensitive. Secondly, that the anterior root is 
essentially motive ; essentially, because if we divide the posterior root the an- 
terior does not the less remain motive. And, on the contrary, the latter (the 
anterior) is essentially sensitive ; for if we cut the posterior root it immediately 
ceases to be so. It is not so, then, in itself — it is only so through the other ; 
and so exclusively through the other that if, leaving this other (that is, the pos- 
terior root) intact, it be itself cut, it is that one only of its two ends which is 
attached to the other (to the posterior root) that remains sensitive. 

There remained a final experiment, and this M. Magendie proceeded to make. 
The sensibility of the anterior root flows to it, is derived from the posterior root, 
but how and by what means ? What route does it pursue ? Js this derivation 
accomplished immediately on the junction or union of the two roots, or aftei'wards ? 
" This extinction," says M. Magendie, "of the sensibility of the anterior root 
by the section of the posterior root is a constant fact, and suggests the experi- 
ment of cutting the nerve beyond the junction of the roots, leaving these latter 
intact. I isolate the trunk of a rachidian pair at nearly six lines from the gang- 
lion. You see plainly that the roots of this nerve are sensitive ; I irritate them 
one after the other, and the animal appears to feel almost as acutely when I 
touch the anterior as when I touch the posterior root. I now cut the trunk of 
the nerve at about four lines from the junction of the roots. Let us try whether 
these roots remain sensitive : I pinch the posterior root and the sensibility is 
the same — it has neither diminished nor augmented. I pinch the anterior root 
and find that this is no longer sensible. I conclude, then, that the sensibility 
furnished by the posterior root to the anterior is transmitted at a point still more 
remote than that on which 1 have operated. New researches must be made be- 
fore the place of the nerve can be determined at which this transmission occurs. 
Can we suppose that it is at the very extremity of the nervous divisions, and 
that the fibres of termination inosculate with one another?" (Lectures on the 
Nervous System, S^c, t. ii, p. 344.) 

I have also repeated this experiment many times and with a uniform result ; 
the section of the two roots, immediately after their junction, abolishes the sensi- 
bility of the anterior root just as it is abolished by the section of the posterior 
root itself. 

EXPERIMENTS ON THE FIFTH AND SEVENTH PAIRS. 

1. One of the finest experiments of M. Magendie was that which he per- 
formed on the Jifth pair. M. Bell had already made this experiment, but by 
another procedure. He had contented himself with cutting the sub-orbital and 
frontal nerves, and the nerves of the chin at their exit from the canals of which 
they bear the name. M. Magendie was the first who cut the fifth pair within 
the cranium. 

" The nerve which presides over the sensibility of the whole face," he says, 
"is the fifth pair. You will see that, by cutting it in the cranium, we abolish 
not only the tactile sensibility of the skin and soft parts, but even the special 
sensibility of the senses in the whole side of the face corresponding to the sec- 
tion. Thus the vision, the smell, the hearing, the taste, will be lost from the 
fact alone that the fifth pair has been cut ; and yet the nerves that it is agreed 
to regard as presiding over the exercise of each of these senses shall have si;f- 
fered no injury." (Lectures on the Nervous Syste??i, II, p. 27.) This is what 
he first said ; he afterwards stated more exactly : " The section of the fifth pair 
acts on the nutrition of the organ of smell as on that of the eye ; the disorders 
are secondary." {Ibid., p. 43.) The section of the JiftJi pair is limited, in effect, 



MEMOIR OF MAGENDIE. 117 

to the immediate, the direct destruction of the tactile sensibility. It destroys 
vision, smell, hearing, only by the consecutive disorder. M. Magendie himself 
verified this as regards vision, or the sensibility of the retina. " I cut the optic 
nerve at its entrance into the eye ; if the nerve of the fifth pair or any other could 
perceive light, the section thus made could not prevent it. But it is quite other- 
wise; the sight is completely abolished, as well as all sensibility, to the strongest 
light, even that of the sun concentrated by a lens. Wishing to submit to this 
last proof an animal whose fifth pair alone was divided, I easily recognized that 
on causing the eye to pass suddenly from shade to the direct light of the sun, 
there was an impression, for the eyelids closed. All sensibility, therefore, is not 
lost in the retina by the section of the fifth pair, though there is but a feeble 
•portion which remains." (Precis Elc?ncntaire de Physiologie, t. i, p 100,) 
M. Magendie had thus formed a just idea as regards vision ; and the same would 
have been the result as regards audition and olfaction if he had made on the 
acoustic and olfactory nerves the experiment which he performed on the optic 
nerve. 

2. It was known from the admirable experiments of M. Bell that the sensibility 
of the face proceeds from the fifth pair, and the respiratory movement from the' 
seventh. A very fine experiment of M. Eschricht, of Copenhagen, suggested 
to M. Magendie an inquiry in order to determine the action of the fifth pair on 
the seventh. (See Journal de Physiologie, t. viii, p. 228 and 339.) In his 
Lectxires we follow, step by step, the progression by which he passes from the 
idea of a recurrent sensibility by nervous anastomosis to the idea of a simple 
association of the fibres of one pair with those of another. 

" The sensibility of the facial nerve," he says, (Legons sur le Systeme Ner- 
veux, t. ii, p. 166,) "is communicated to it by its anastomosis with the fifth 
pair. This expression of anastomosis will cease to represent a just idea if, by 
anastomosis, we understand the fusion of two nerves into a single one; there 
is no true fusion in the case. I had heretofore thought the contrary, but my 
last experiments force me to modify my views. The branches of the fifth 
pair, and of the seventh, which we find united, have their fibres associated 
in such a manner that each fibre preserves the respective properties of the 
nerve from which it emanates. Thus the fibres of the fifth pair remain sensitive 
fibres; the fibres of the seventh pair remain motive fibres. The trunk which 
they constitute by their association is thus a trunk composed of motive and of 
sensitive fibres, and not of a single order of fibres sensitive and motive at the 
same time. Cut the nerve of the fifth pair ; there remain only motive fibres, 
and all sensibility disappears. If then I avail myself indiscriminately of the 
words association, anastoiyiosis, you will know what signification I give them. 
(Lecons, Sfc, t. ii, p. 185.) We know now what is to be understood by anasto- 
mosis between a nerve of sensibility and a nerve of movement. The sensitive 
fibres associate themselves with the motive fibres, and wherever the former exist 
you meet with sensibility. The association of two nerves is attended with no 
confusion of their properties ; they arc exercised conjointly in the same nervous 
trunk, but they remain independent, since we can isolate them. (Ibid, p. 191.) 
The seventh pair receives from the fifth, not sensibility, but sensitive fibres. Its 
own fibres form a nerve exclusively motive. {Ibid, p. 209.) 

Cerebrospinal liquid. — As early as 1825 M. Magendie had read to the acad- 
emy a memoir on this subject; he read a second in 1826, a third in 1828, 
Long before, however, in 1769, the celebrated Italian physician Cotugno had 
recognized and described this liquid; but what Cotugno had said was altogether 
forgotten when M. Magendie in turn occupied himself with this important sub- 
ject.* 

* Circa meduUam, per sphtutn descendentem, &c. — "Around the medulla, as it descends 
through the spine, there is a considerable space ; but this extra space is not wholly free. 
Along it descends the dura mater, which, formed into a tube at its exit from the great ocinp- 



1 18 MEMOIR OF MAGENDIE. 

What the Italian did not see or saw but incompletely, and M. Magendie has 
placed beyond dovibt, is : 1st, that this liquid exists in all ages : 2dly, in the 
normal as well as disordered state; 3dly, that it is deposited not in tlae cavity 
of the arachnoid, but below that membrane, around the encephalon and the me- 
dulla; 4thly, that the pia mater is its secreting organ; 5thly, that there is a 
particular point, called by M. Magendie the entrance of the ventricles, by which 
tlie liquid penetrates from the exterior of the brain into the cavities, into the 
VI -iiricles, the conduits of that organ. 

" Is it not remarkable," he says on this occasion, " that the parts of the brain 
named by the ancient anatomists valvula, aquce-ductus, fons, have precisely the 
use which their name indicates % The valvida of Viensses, or the great valve 
of the brain, fulfils, beyond doubt, the functions of a valve, since it resists the 
egress of the liquid which traverses or which fills the fourth ventricle. No part 
could better merit its name than the aqueduct of Sylvius, since, according to the 
experiments which I have reported, this canal conveys sometimes the water of 
the ventricles towards the spine, and* sometimes from the spine towards the head. 
Lastly, what is called the pons is, in effect, a great medullary arcade, inverted 
and placed below the current of the liquid which traverses the aqueduct." — 
{Journal de Physiologie, t. vii, p. 29.) 

A great anatomist of recent times, Soemmering, even places the scat of the 
soul in the liquid of the ventricles of the brain: "If it be permitted us to assign 
a peculiar organ to the common sensorium, or if there be a proper seat for the 
common sensorium in the brain, it is not without some show of reason to be 
sought for in this liquid."* 



APPENDIX II. 

ANALYSIS OF THE EESEAECHES OF SIE CHARLES BELL ON THE NER- 
VOUS SYSTEM, t 

In order to convey a clear idea of the merits of M. Bell, and the particular 
character of his new views on the nervous system, it is necessary to say a word 
respecting the doctrines which prevailed, previous to his time, on that important 
subject. 

"If we pass in review," says M. Bell himself,. " the opinions respecting the "^ 
brain and nerves which have been held at different times, we find one theory 
which had been maintained from the Greek authors down to the age of Willis, 
and which has been transmitted, with few changes, to modern authors." Now, 
this theory which had passed from the Greeks to Willis, and from Willis to 

ital foramen, encloses the spinal marrow, like a sheath, to the termination of the os sacrum. 
Yet this tnbe of the dura mater is not so wide as to reach everywhere the circuit of the cavity 
of the spine, nor so narrow as to embrace closely the included medulla; but is somewhat 
distant from the cavity of the spine, chiefly behind and at the place of the apophysis, and is 
at the same time separated by a considerable space from the periphery of the medulla which 
it encloses. Now, this space between the vagina furnished by the dura mater and the mar- 
row, is always full, not with medullary matter, nor, as some learned men in so obscure a 
subject have conjectured, with a vaporous exhalation, but with water, similar to that which 
the pericardium confines around the heart, which fills the hollow spaces of the ventricles of 
the brain, the labyrinth of the ear, and, in short, all the cavities of the body from which the 
free air is to be excluded, &c. (Dominici Cotunni : De Ischiade Nervosa Co7nmentarius, Vi- 
enna, 1770.) 

* Peculiare organum sensorii communis siponere fas est, vel si propria sedes sensorio com- 
muni incerebro est, haud sine veri quadam specie hoc in humore quteri debet. — (De Corporis 
Humani Fabrica, vol. iv, p. 69, 1798.) 

t In this analysis of the researches of Bell there will doubtless be some repetition of what 
has been said in the Memoir or Notes, but it is not the less needed in order to present the 
complete filiation of ideas. 



MEMOIR OF MAGEMDIE. 119 

modern authors, was the theory of spirits derived from Galen. Galen, that 
great theoretical cultivator of ancient physiology, had imagined spirits of three 
kinds : the natural, which were formed in the liver ; the vital, which were 
formec in the left ventricle of the heart ; and the animal or cerebral, which 
were farmed in the brain. Willis very much simplifies matters ; with him, all 
the spirits are formed in the brain : Statuimus has sjnritus soluvwiodo in ccrc- 
hro ct ccrehcllo frocreari; all, it seems, are formed in the brain, and with not 
much difficulty, as we shall see. It is, in fact, merely a chemical operation : 
veltit in opus chimicum.^ The blood is carried into the brain and the cerebel- 
lum by the narrow vessels of the plexus, as by the flexuous tubes of an alembic, 
vcluti per ser2Jentinos alembici canal cs ; and then, in the substance of these two 
organs, iiitra utriusque substantiam, the finest, most volatile and most subtle 
particles are evolved from the blood ; these particles are the spirits. 

But do these spirits really exist ? This is the only question which Willis 
forgets to propound ; for, in other respects, there are not a few which he pro- 
ceeds to ask. He inquires why it is that these spirits, being so thin, so subtle, 
so fitted for escaping — particulce ad acolandnm aptoi — do not in effect escape; 
and he answers that they are confined or cohibitcd, to use his own expression, 
by the membranes of the brain, as by the cap of an alembic — velut alembici 
obductione. He even asks what they are — cpiid sint ? — and he avows that he 
cannot venture to compare them too closely with the sjnrits of wine or of tere- 
bintJi, seeing that these may be poured from one vessel into another, or even be 
distilled, without being lost ; while, as for the animal S2nrits, they are so subtle 
that after the death of the animal no traces of them are to be found. 

These animal spirits were the mysterious resource of all modern physiology, 
from Descartes to Borden. t Borden having skilfully turned them into ridicule, 
less use was made of them. Eventually, in the latter years of the last century, 
a new term was substituted for the old one ; the animal spirits became the nervous 
fluid. M. Cuvier still wrote in 1817 : "It seems to us that an explanation may 
be rendered of all the phenomena of physical life by the simple admission of a 
fluid such as we have just defined ; "J that is to say, the nervous fluid. 

Things were at this point, or nearly so, at the time when M. Bell began to 
think for himself on the nervous system. " It was supposed," he says, " that 
the brain secreted a nervous fluid, that the nerves were the channels which con- 
veyed it, and that all were endowed with the same properties. With this appa- 
rent simplicity of doctrine," he adds, *.' never has there been presented so great 
a number of errors in the history of any science." 

The basis of this doctrine, so simple, as M. Bell justly remarks — for the 
whole is here reduced to a single fluid — was the uniformity, the homogeneous- 
ncss of action. For homogeneousness of action M. Bell substituted speciality 
of action, and this Avas the first, the fundamental feature which separates his 
theory from the old one. " The key," he says, " of my whole system will be 
found in this single proposition : each filament of nervous matter is endowed 
with a peculiar property independent of that of other filaments which occur along 
with it, and this it preserves throughout its whole extent." {Natural System 
of the Nerves of the Human Body.) 

The whole work of M. Bell is an analysis. From the date of his first essay, 
in 1811,§ he separates and distinguishes the functions of the posterior roots of 
the nerves from the functions of the anterior roots. This essay, too far in 
advance of the physiologists of that day, attracted little or no notice ; the authoi-, 
through discouragement, maintained silence for ten years. In 1S21 he resumed 

* Cerebri Anatome, cui Accessit Nervorum Dcscrip. «< Usiis. London, 1664. 
t For tlie refutation of animal spirits by Borden, see my work entitled De la Vie ct de 
V Intelligence, p. 43, &c. Paris, 1858. 

t Lc llcgnc Anirnal, &c., t. 1, p. 35, first edition. 

$ Idea oj' a New Anatomy of the Brain ; submitted for the observations of his friends. 



120 MEMOIE OF MAGENDIE. 

the subject, and presented to the Eoyal Society of London his Natural System 
of the Nerves, a new analysis, almost as ingenious and subtle as the first, and 
which gives him his three classes of distinct nerves : the nerves of sensation, 
those of voluntary movement, and those of the respiratory movement. 

I shall divide the labors of M. Bell as he has divided them himself; I shall 
distribute them into two epochs. The first will be that in which he distinguishes 
the functions of the roots of the nerves ; the second, that in which he discrimi- 
nates the different classes of nerves from one another. I shall afterwards say 
something of his discussion with M. Magendie. 

First epoch. — Distinct functions of the roots of the nerves. — How did M. 
Bell arrive at this great and fundamental distinction % He has himself told us : 
" I owe my first ideas to the inductions which I drew from the anatomical 
structure, and the small number of my experiments had for their object only 
the verification of these first ideas." He adds : " When, in making researches 
on a subject of this nature, we follow the natural order of ideas and a philo- 
sophical method, when we examine with care the facts which anatomy presents, 
every experiment is decisive, and truth shows itself so evident and simple that 
nothing can be more satisfactory to the observer." This is well said, and dis- 
closes the process of the author ; he proceeds from anatomy to exp'eriment, but 
to experiment only in his own defence. What, then, did anatomy yield him? 

In observing with close and constant attention the disposition, distribution, 
origin, in a word, the anatomy of the nerves of the spinal rnarrow and of the 
encephalon, what especially struck him — and the more forcibly the more he 
considered it — was the perfect regularity of the former and the extreme irregu- 
larity of the latter. All the nerves of the spinal marrow are perfectly regular; 
they all spring from two series of roots pertaining, these to the posterior region, 
those to the anterior region of this medullary column. The nerves of the 
encephalon, on the other hand, are all of a surprising irregularity; some spring 
from a single anterior root ; others from a single posterior root ; others, again, 
from a single lateral root. One only, that of the fifth pair, springs from two dis- 
tinct roots — one posterior and the other anterior — like the nerves of the spine. 

Whence this diversity of origin of the nerves of the encephalon % Wherefore 
two sources for the nerves of the spinal marrow ? Would not this diversity of 
origin indicate a diversity of functions ? Thus the leading idea— the idea of 
diversity of function suggested by diversity of origin — was grasped ; and thus 
far the genius of the discoverer stood as the sole intermediary between the idea 
and anatomy. But it remained to retrieve this idea, so novel and withal so true, 
from the category of mere supposition or conjecture, and for this anatomy did 
not suffice. When Harvey — that perpetual model for all who propose to study 
the obscure mechanism of living beings — had satisfied himself of the arrange- 
ment of the valves of the veins, disposed in such a manner as to favor the course 
of the blood from the members to the heart, and obstruct it from the heart to the 
members, he made a very simple but decisive experiment. He tied a vein, and 
saw it swell on the side of the members, and not on the side of the heart. The 
blood therefore flowed, in the veins, from the members to the heart, and not 
from the heart to the members, and the circulation of the blood was demon- 
strated.* 

M. Bell did as Harvey had done. After having long meditated on the ana- 
tomical disposition of the origin or roots of the nerves, he devised an experiment 
wMch should likewise be decisive, and executed it. " It was first necessary," 
he says, " to ascertain whether the phenomena, developed after the lesion of the 
different roots of the nerves of the spine, were found to correspond with what 
anatomy would indicate. Hesitating for some time on account of the nature of 



"^ See the flisfoire de, laDecouverte de la Circulation du Sang, bv M. Flourens, p. 41, (second 
edition. ) 



MEMOIR OF MAGENDIE. 121 

the operation, I at length proceeded to open the cavity of the spine in a rabbit, 
and I cut the posterior roots of the nerves of the inferior extremity ; the animal 
could still move itself, but the cruelty of this dissection prevented me from re- 
peating the experiment. I thought it would suffice to make it on an animal 
newly stunned and insensible. I therefore struck a rabbit behind the ear, so as 
to deprive it of sensibility by the shock, and then laid bare the marrow of the 
spine. On irritating the posterior roots of the nerve, I could perceive no con- 
sequent movement in the muscular tissue ; but when I proceeded to irritate the 
anterior roots, there ensued, whenever the instrument touched them, a corre- 
sponding movement in the muscles to which the nerve was distributed. These 
experiments proved that the different roots, and the different columns whence 
those roots proceed, are destined to different functions, and that the indications 
furnished by anatomy were correct." 

It Avould be puerile and unworthy to dwell too much upon the faults of this 
experiment, ever memorable as it is, as being the first. The author says that 
" the cruelty of the experiment prevented him from repeating it." If he had 
observed more closely what took place when he cut the posterior root, (and he 
might have confined himself to irritating it, which would have been still less 
cruel than cutting it,) he would have seen the animal give signs of distress ; 
the indications of sensibility, of pain, would have manifested themselves, as they 
always do in such cases, and, in this respect, everything would have been de- 
termined. In the second place, to begin by stupefying the animal, by render- 
ing it insensible, when sensibility was precisely one of the phenomena to be 
verified, was no doubt the way to render the experiment less painful, but it was 
also, with deliberate purpose, to render it insufficient and incomplete. It was 
to instigate more complete ones, which would be made by others, and in effect 
to multiply the chances of cruelty in place of diminishing them. 

And this was, in fact, what happened. The experiments of M. Bell were 
everywhere repeated, and no one was more gratified thereat than himself. " I 
have only to add," said he in 1825, (fifteen years after his first Essay,) "that 
it has redounded to the satisfaction of all Europe, that these opinions and ex- 
periments have been followed up. It has been recognized that the anterior 
roots of tbe nerves of the spine excite muscular movement, and the posterior 
roots sensibility. When, in an experiment, the anterior roots of the nerves of 
the leg are cut, the animal loses all power over the leg, although the member 
preserves its sensibility. But if, on the other hand, the posterior roots are cut, 
the fiiculty of movement will still exist, although the sensibility be lost. If the 
posterior column of the spinal marrow in an animal be irritated, it appears sen- 
(sitive to the pain, but no similar effect is observed when the anterior column is 
touched." 

Secoi\d epoch. — System or classification of the nerves. — In 1821 M. Bell 
read to the Royal Society his first memoir on what he calls the natural system 
of the nerves. His Essay of 1811 had passed almost without notice, as has 
been just said. The present memoir produced a profound impression. It was 
because the author at last addressed himself to the true judges, to a learned 
company, and because by the very reading of his work he stimulated it to re- 
flection. It was, besides, the first time that the light of physiology had pene- 
trated into the study, until then purely anatomical, and until then wholly sterile 
also, of the nerves properly so called. What had the anatomists of all countries 
been doing, before M. Bell, in their researches on the different nerves ? They 
had been emulously striving who should find some new ganglion or some un- 
known nervous filament, without, however, attaching the least idea to that 
ganglion or that filament. 

"As long as it is supposed," says M. Bell, "that the nerves proceed from a 
common centre, that they have the same structure and the same functions, that they 
are all sensitive, and that they all contribute to convey what is vaguely called 



122 MEMOIE OF MAGENDIE. 

the nervous current, these discoveries of new nerves and new ganglions will not 
only be useless, but prejudicial; they will serve only to increase the confusion." 

A single philosophical, but just and precise idea sufficed M. Bell for the re- 
moval of this confusion. He sees two distinct nerves distribute their branches 
to all parts of the face ; three nerves of different origin proceeding to the tongue, 
four to the throat; the nerves of the neck presenting a most complicated ar- 
rangement; and he inquires why is this ? Why this multiplication of nerves — 
why different nerves for the same part ? Why, for example, two nerves for 
the face ? " Here," says M. Bell, " we naturally ask, whether these nerves fulfil 
the same function — whether they contribute a double contingent of the same 
property or faculty, or whether they do not fulfil different functions % After 
having called to our aid," he continues, " all the information furnished by the 
structure of the human body and by comparative anatomy, we proceed to de- 
cide the question by experiments." Thus we see, it is always anatomy which 
proposes the question, which suggests the idea ; but, as we further see, it is al- 
ways experiment, and experiment inevitably, which gives the answer.* 

M. Bell therefore divides, in an animal, the seventh pair, that is to say one 
of the two pairs between which a decision is to be pronounced, and the animal 
loses only the respiratory movement of the face, simply the dilatation of the 
nostrils. He divides the fifth pair in another animal ; this loses the movement 
of the lips which serves for manducation, a voluntary movement ; but it preserves 
the movement of the nostrils, a respiratory movement. The former no longer 
respires by its nostrils, yet uses its lips to collect its food ; the latter respires by 
its nostrils as usual, but can no longer use its lips to collect its food and eat. 
Nor is this all : when the seventh pair is cut, the animal does not suffer ; and 
when the fifth pair is cut, it experiences acute pain. Again, the seventh pair 
being cut, the face preserves all its sensibility, while, the fifth pair being cut, 
all the sensibility of the face is lost. A difference of properties, then, of the 
most express nature separates the seventh pair from the fifth. The former is 
insensible, is pvuely motive, and serves only for the resjnratory movement of the 
face; the latter is at once sensible and motive, and serves at the same time for 
the sensibility of the face and its voluntary movement. 

There are nerves, therefore, which are only motors, like the seventh pair ; 
others which are at once motors and sensitive, like the fifth ; and others still 
which are only sensitive, like all the nerves, for example, of the special senses. 
And, as regards each nerve, its property, its function depends on its origin. 
The nerve of the fifth pair springs from two roots, the one anterior, the other 
posterior ; it derives from the former its motive faculty, and from the latter its 
sensitive faculty ; it is a double nerve, a nerve composed of two nerves, one 
anterior, the other posterior — one for movement, the other for sensation. Though 
springing from the encephalon, it is, from its two-fold origin and its two-fold 
function, a true nerve of the spine.f The nerve of the seventh pair, on the 
contrary, is a single nerve; it has but one origin, and that is anterior; it is 
purely motive. Lastly, the nerves of the senses have also but one origin, but 
this is posterior, and they are purely sensitive. 

Upon this principle cf their radication, then, (and the great result of the re- 
searches of M. Bell is to have taught us that it is by their radicles that we must 



* "Experiments," says M. Bell, " have never led to discoveries." {Natural System, &c., p. 
251.) This is not wisely said; it is to make experimental art bear the whole bm-den of tho 
ill-humor entertained towards the experiments of M. Magendie. " Let the physiologists of 
France," M. Bell further says, "borrow from us and follow up our opinions with experiments," 
(p. 257.) This troublesome M. Magendie has cost us many a sarcasm. 

t Add to this that, hke the nerves of the spine, the posterior root, that namely of sensation, 
is provided with a ganglion. It was supposed, previous to M. Bell, that the office of the 
ganglions was to arrest sensibility. It has been found, by experiment, that the posterior, 
that is the sensitive nerves are precisely those which have a ganglion, and they are the only 
ones which have it. 



MEMOIR OF MAGENDIE. 123 

be guided,) there are three classes of nerves ; nerves purely motive, nerves purely 
sensitive, and nerves at once motive and sensitive ; the first with a single and 
anterior root, the second with a single and posterior root, the third Avith roots 
both anterior and posterior. Never had a more vivid light been shed upon a 
subject more obscure, confused, and, to use the received term, more inextricable. 

The nerves, then, are at length classified, and their classification may be called, 
as M. Bell in fact calls it, .a natural classification ; for it is given at once by the 
origin and the function — that is to say, by the two characters which are the 
most sure, whether regarded in the light of anatomy or physiology. 

I have counted but three classes of nerves ; M. Bell makes four : it is because 
I deliberately omit the great sympathetic, upon which he has bestowed too 
little attention to make it worth mentioning here.* It has been seen, moreover, 
that, besides the two columns of the spinal marrow, the anterior and posterior, 
M. Bell admits a third, which he calls the lateral column. This third column, 
which appeared to him so important, is at present, and with reason, regarded as 
being at least very problematical. Of the five nerves which M. Bell considers 
as springing from it, and which are the five respiratory nerves — the 2^(t.thetic, 
thcyacial, the spinal, the 2)neu?nogastric and the glaso-p/iaryngian — the first 
three spring from the anterior column and are exclusively motors ; the fourth 
springs from two roots and is motive and sensitive ; the fifth springs from the 
posterior column and is exclusively sensitive. 

To consider, then, only what is clear, established, and will be permanent in 
the researches of M. Bell : the spinal marrow (and I do not here separate from 
it the medulla oblongata) is composed of two columns, the one sensitive, the 
other motive. All the nerves which spring from the sensitive cohimn are sensitive ; 
all those which spring from the motive column are motors. From the origin 
may always be inferred the Junction ; from the function may always be inferred 
the origin ; and M. Bell was not deceived when, from the simple anatomical 
diversity of origin, he had foreseen the physiological diversity oi function. 

Thikd epoch. — Discussion of M. Bell with M. Magcndie. — This discussion 
relates to two points : first, the discovery of the proper functions of the roots ol 
the nerves; and, secondly, the discrimination of the special functions of the 
seventh and fifth pairs. 

In reference to the first point, M. Magendie read to the Academy, July, 1822, 
a memoir in which he announced that having cut the posterior root of a nerve 
in an animal, he had only abolished sensatio?i, and that having cut the anterior 
root, he had only abolished movement. This result was received with the ad- 
miration merited ; but some months later M. Magendie read a second memoir, 
in which he retracted all that he had said and discredited all that he had done. 
Each root was no longer exclusively sensitive or motive ; each was both one and 
the other : only, the anterior root was more motive than sensitive, and the pos- 
terior more sensitive than motive. 

There could scarcely have been a greater advantage offered to j\I. Bell. 
Hence, in a note which he attributes to a pupil, a pretence which could not but 
render recrimination more easy and acrimonious, ]M. Bell incessantly presses his 
adversary with this dilemma : Either, he says to him, you adhere to your former 
memoir, and then I have over you a priority of at least ten years ; or you abide 
by the second, and there is then nothing in common between us, no longer any 
subject of debate ; I maintain the exclusiveness of action of each root, and you 
return to the old idea of the accumulation ot two actions in each. What reply 
could there be to this reasoning ? As a man of sense, M. Magendie did not 
reply at all ; he did much better ; he made a new discovery, and one fully as 
difficult at least as the first : he discovered the recurrent sensibility. 

* He regaidecl it as the lien " which seems to iiuite the three other orders of nerves (those 
of sejisation, those oi voluntary movement, and those of the respiratory movement) and the 
body itself in one whole." {Natural System, &c., p. 5.) 



124 MEMOIR OF MAGENDIE. 

I proceed to the second point of tlie discussion : the special functions of the 
fifth and seventh pair. M. Bell had contented himself with cutting the fifth 
pair at its exit from the foramina of the face ; M. Magendie boldly divided it 
within the skull. The result, from this circumstance alone, was more striking ; 
but from this result, imposing as it was, how many inadmissible consequences did 
he draw ? He pronounced the fifth pair to be not only the nerve of general sensi- 
bility, of the tactile sensibility of the face, but also the nerve of all the proper 
Organs of the senses. It was the nerve of olfaction, of audition, of vision; he took 
certain simple efi'ects of a subsequent alteration for direct and immediate effects. 
M. Bell, more practiced than he in analysis, pointed out to him that the 
phenomena in question are more complicated than he supposed. In the phenom- 
enon of olfaction, for instance, there is the sense of smell, the act of scenting, 
and the tactile sensibility ; the first depends on the olfactory nerve, the second 
on the seventh pair, and the last on the fifth pair. " Having caused a dog," 
says M, Bell, " to respire ammonia, after the seventh pair had been cut, it 
experienced at first no effects of irritation of the pituitary membrane. This was 
because it no longer possessed the power of snuffing up, or drawing in with force^ 
the ammoniacal vapor. * * * If I ]iad not paid attention to these circum- 
stances, I might have believed, in view of what I saw, that the nerve of the 
seventh pair was the nerve of smell, as a well-known French physiologist has 
done, who has concluded too precipitately that he had discovered the nerve o 
vision and of smell in the fifth pair." 

It is not difficult to see the different turns of mind in the two men whom 1 
compare : the one was more meditative, more thoughtful — the other more a mar 
of action than of thought ; the one might be said to have placed no sufficient value 
on experiments, the other no sufficient value on ideas ; the one would never prob- 
ably have made experiments had he not begun by having ideas ; the other might 
perhaps have had but few ideas had he not begun by multiplying experiments. 
Charles Bell (born 1774, died 1842) was the fourth sonof a poor Presbyterian 
minister of Scotland. The second of his brothers, John Bell, having become 
professor of surgery in the University of Edinburgh, invited him thither, and 
initiated him in anatomical studies and instruction. First impressions are 
strongest; a single good indication given in time furnishes sometimes the open 
mg for a career. Mr. John Shaw, in a prefatory account of Mr. Bell, * tells us 
that " he commenced his public labors as assistant of his brother, John Bell, 
who relinquished to him the part of the course of anatomy which treats of the 
nerves, and counselled him to study the brain by its base, by its relations with 
the spinal marrow, instead of cutting it by horizontal sections. The intelligent 
student soon perceived many things which he has developed in this volume, and 
which might perhaps have always escaped him, had he not then formed the 
habit of constantly considering, under this point of view, the relations of the 
brain with the rest of the nervous system." 

Arrived at the age of thirty years, Charles Bell felt ill at ease in a depend- 
ent situation. Quitting his brother, and removing to London, he there long 
endured isolation and poverty. In 1805 appeared his first work, the Anatomy 
of Expression. In 1811 he produced his Sketch of a Neio Anatomy of the Brain, 
the small success of which was the source, as has been already said, of much 
discouragement. Having been appointed surgeon of the hospital of Middlesex, 
he seemed wholly devoted to instruction and practice; yet we find, in one of 
his letters of that date, this passage : " Under a semblance of forgetfulness I 
am^always Brooding over my grand idea; it occupies me unceasingly." 

Some years later, on quitting a session of the Koyal Society, in which he had 
read his first and successful memoir, he remarked: "At last I may assure my- 
self that I am no visionary. My discovery Avill place me by the side of Har- 

'^ The Nervous System of the Human Body, as explained in a, series of papers read before 
tiio ±toyai bociety of London, with an appendix of cases and consultations on nervous dis- 
eases. Edinburgh, 1836. 



MEMOIR OF MAGENDIE 125 

vey. This affair of the nerves may require much time to become what it ought 
to be, but I indulge myself with the idea that I have made a discovery not 
surpassed by any in anatomy; nor am I yet at the end of it." This, hoAvever, 
was but a passing gleam of satisfaction; ambitious and delicate minds are al- 
ways vacillating between exaltation and distrust. He wrote shortly afterwards : 
"The satisfaction which I have enjoyed in my researches has been very great; 
the reception which science has given them has been the reverse of what I ex- 
pected. The earliest announcement of my discoveries obtained from profes- 
sional men not a word of encouragement. When, subsequently, the publica- 
tion of my memoirs by the Royal Society rendered it impossible that some at- 
tention should not be paid to them, the interest which they excited inured only 
to the advantage of those who contradicted them, or those who pretended to 
have anticipated me. It has become for me an affair of but little importance." 
He was mistaken; it was to him the important affair ; he wouhl have pre- 
ferred, however, that it should have been a little more so that of all the world, 
and that the attention at first bestowed should not so soon have grown languid. 
He did not recollect Fontenelle's saying: "The admiration of mankind is a 
sentiment which only craves leave to terminate." 

The memorials of our savant have been collected, as I said just now, by his 
brother-in-law, John Shaw. The warm controversy raised by the new views 
which he had introduced into science was distasteful to his meditative and se- 
rious temper, as well as to his sense of personal dignity. He stood aloof from 
it, and retm-ned into Scotland, almost disgusted with ambition. "My dear 
friend," said to him the aged Professor Lynn, "you will never change. If you 
live to be old, you will be the same child, but with crutches." After his poet- 
ical manner, he writes in his private journal, at his departure from London : 
** I find myself to-day like a bird whose nest is in the cap of a school-boy." 

A sojourn in his country wrought in him no change of mood. After filling 
for some years, at Edinburgh, the chair which his brother had occupied, he 
travelled on the continent. Artistic Italy atracted the greatest share of his ad- 
miration. The following is his judgment, evincing at least profound feeling, 
respecting Michael Angelo. It should not be forgotten that he himself possessed 
a superior, an exquisite talent, as designer and painter, and that he has written 
a book, equally esteemed by the man of science and the artist, on the anatomy 
of expression. 

" In these statues," he says, speaking of two statues of Day and Night at 
Florence, " Michael Angelo has displayed great perception of art and a genius 
of the first order: the combination of anatomical science and of ideal beauty, 
or, rather, grandeur. It has been often related of him that he studied the torso 
of the Belvedere, and had it constantly before his eyes. This fine model of 
antique art may well have been the authority on which ho relied for his great 
development of the human muscles ; but the torso could not have taught him 
the effects which he produced by the magnificent and gigantic members of these 
statues. Who is the artist, modern or ancient, that would have voluntarily 
consented thus to demonstrate the difficulties of the art, and to place the human 
body in this position ? Who that would have thrown the shoulder into this 
violent contraction, and have preserved, nevertheless, with so learned an exact- 
ness, the relations of the parts among themselves, the harmony of the bones and 
muscles ? This great man shows us how genius submits to labor in order to 
attain perfection. It was necessary to have passed through the severe labors 
of the anatomist to acquire that power of designing which it was scarcely to be 
hoped would meet with appreciation either then or afterwards." 

On his return from Italy, Mr. Bell, having gone to pass some days at the 
country seat of one of his friends in the neighborhood of Worcester, Avas there 
overtaken by sudden death.* 

* See, in the British Rerieu; (October 10, 184.5,) siu article full of interest, by M Picbot, 
on Cbarles Bell. From this I have drawn some of the traits of his familiar life. 



ON THE SENSES. 



3.— THE SENSE OF TASTE 



Translated by C. A. Alexander for the Smithsonian Institution from the German periodical 
" Aus der Natur, n. s. w." — Leipzig. 



" De gustihus non est disputandum " is an old and well known commonplace, 
to which, while prefixing it as a motto, we might give a rendering somewhat 
different from the usual one, and say : " About taste there is little to be said." 
No doubt upon such a theme many pages might be easily filled, were Ave minded 
to enter the arena of aesthetics and to pursue the chameleon-like idea into all its 
ramifications ; but a sober exposition of the physiological conditions of tlie sense 
is so unpromising a subject that we could not help fearing an exposure of the 
poverty of science, if we did not here, as in our consideration of the sense of 
smell, propose rather to clear up some of the inveterate errors prevalent among 
the uninformed than to furnish as thorough an investigation as might be desira- 
ble. We reckon herein but little on the interest of the gourmands who may 
suppose that physiology can be advanced by their manifold experiences in re- 
gard to this their favorite sense, and who will, therefore, learn with the deeper 
indignation that physiology has not only not known how to profit by their re- 
searches, but even regards them as the chief sources of the common and wide- 
spread errors just alluded to. The fleshy and wonderful member which, as such 
persons would seem to opine, has been placed at the very inlet of the alimentary 
canal with scarcely any other view than to preside over giistatory pleasures, 
offers to our keenest inquiries just as profound an enigma as the organ of smell. 
Very far are we from being able to explain how that specific sensation, which, 
without any further power of description, we denominate taste, arises ; what is 
the essential difference between a sensation of sweet and sour ; what the real 
principle which resides in any substance so as to occasion our applying to it one 
or the other epithet, to say nothing of any possible explication, by the aid of 
science, of the different shadings, as it Avere, of sapidity cognizable by a nice 
palate, or of the jargon by which we attempt to characterize them. Here com- 
mon nerve fibres, between which and those of other organs of sense the closest 
inspection fails to detect the least difference, serve to interpret to the sensorium, 
by means of their extremities in the mucous coat of the tongue, the endless A^a- 
riety of so-called flavors of sapid substances ; but we seek in vain, either at the 
outer or inner extremities of these conducting fibres, for any specific apparatus 
which might enlighten us as to their operations. However indispensable it be, 
as Avas shoAvn in our introductory discussion on the sense of feeling, to suppose 
such an apparatus, yet has all endeavor hitherto to detect it by means of the 
microscope been baffled ; nor, indeed, in the present state of knowledge, were 
successful research to disclose to us the ends of the nerves of taste provided 
with minute vesicles or filaments, or any other elementary form, should we un- 
derstand them any more than we do the already discoA^ered cells at the cerebral 
termination of all nerves or the small bulbs at the outer extremity of the nerves 



128 ON THE SENSES. 

of touch. It would probably fare with us as with some ancient Roman raised 
from the grave and suddenly placed in presence of a telegraphic apparatus or 
steam engine. In the mean time it would seem the next most important prob- 
lem of science in this connection to study, with more exactness than heretofore, 
the terminal points of the nerves of taste in the mucous membrane, in order to 
discover here, as has very recently been effected in the nerves of the other 
senses, the elementary form of the nerve ends by which the sensation in ques- 
tion is communicated ; whereby we may hope to approach, in the future, some- 
what nearer to a solution of the mysterious relation which exists between the 
contact of sapid substances with the tongue and the peculiar sensations which 
they are destined to excite. 

If we bring into contact with the nerves of sight or of feeling a solution of 
sugar, or of some intensely bitter substance, such as quinine, they remain un- 
disturbed ; neither class of nerves is roused to that state of activity by virtue 
of which a " current " is hurried to the brain, there to call forth an appropriate 
sensation. We may conclude then with absolute certainty that there is present 
in the tougue a mechanism, a contrivance which sugar and quinine excite into 
different specific kinds of action ; that this action is suited to evoke in the nerve 
filaments peculiar modifications of the beforementioned current ; and that this 
current again must find at the cerebral end of the nerves of taste a special ap- 
paratus which so operates upon what we call the soul that, as the final result, 
a perception of sweetness or bitterness arises. These successive preliminaries 
to a sensation of taste are at present beyond our scrutiny ; it will be well if 
means are at our disposal to resolve, step by step, with clear physiological facts 
and inductions, the questions which present themselves in connection with each 
of them. Nor shall we repine that such problems lie before us. The novice 
errs if he thinks that a science affords to its votaries a higher satisfaction ; the 
greater the completeness with which it presents itself, the more exactly finished 
the edifice into which it introduces them. A satisfaction of a different and per- 
haps superior kind is afforded by science through its very gaps and obscure 
spaces, but only to him who loyally loves it for its own sake ; to accompany 
a science in its development, to contribute, though it were but a small, incon- 
spicuous stone, to the growing structure, affords a more vivid pleasure than being 
admitted to a participation in what is already accomplished. There are, it is true,' 
self-styled savants to whom also the deficiencies in a science are more welcome 
than the completed structure, because those deficiencies are regarded not in a 
spirit of earnest inquiry, but as affording opportunities for the acquisition of easy 
notoriety and applause. Shunning the toils of research, they find it more con- 
venient to guess at the future revelations of science than acknowledge their own 
ignorance, and, overweaving all chasms with flimsy theories, they vaunt the 
result as knowledge converted into luxury and amusement. With these self- 
satisfied sciolists, who but too often and easily gain access to the public ear, the 
detail of facts and laws is derided as pedantry ; the slow and cautious processes 
of inquiry as unworthy drudgery ; the reserve and modesty of true science as 
tame mediocrity or affected obscurity. Let the judicious reader be warned 
against their empty pretensions. If we once more mark with our reprobation 
this form of charlatanism, it is because no occasion seemed more proper than 
when attempting to adapt to popular comprehension, without dissembling diffi- 
culties or courting effect, one of the most obscure departments of physiology. 
We return to our subject. 

It is not improbable that the first inquiry we have to propose will at the first 
glance appear to our readers superfluous, and surprise will scarcely fail to be 
awakened when it is shown how much obscurity really rests upon the seemingly 
simple question. What is the seat of taste, and what organs produce the sensa- 
tion ? With the common and general answer, the tongue, unfortunately we 
cannot rest satisfied, for it remains further to be asked, first, what part of the 



THE SENSE OF TASTE. 129 

tongue receives the peculiar impression which we call taste ; seemdly, whether, 
besides the tongue, other parts of the cavity of the mouth are endowed with this 
faculty ; thirdly, to what structural arrangements is it due I Strangely enough 
the answers to the three questions are still in dispute, and in part at least are ex- 
tremely defective. It would seem, on the whole, highly probable that to a very 
small tract has been assigned the sense of taste, for with more exact exploration 
its boundaries have been found to be more and more circumscribed. Wliile the 
older physiologists acquiesced in the popular notion that the tongue is the organ 
of taste, and ascribed to the whole mucous coat of the mouth, and even of the 
jaws and pharynx, the faculty of exciting impressions of taste, most of the modern 
school are unanimous in the opinion that only a small portion of the dorsum of 
the tongue, and that indeed the hindmost and nearest to the throat, exercises the 
prerogative of deciding on the sapid properties of transmitted substances. It is 
true that there are those even now who regard the whole surface of the tongue, 
including its under side, and even the mucous membranes which line the orifice of 
the throat, as embraced within the province of this sense, but in our opinion im- 
properly. No one, however, disputes that the hinder part of the dorsum of the 
tongue is endowed with at least a finer sense of taste ; a conclusion which re- 
ceives countenance from the commonly observed ftict that whenever it is proposed 
to submit any substance to a closer scrutiny of the sense in question, we in- 
stinctively transfer it to that portion of the mouth, where the hard palate also 
lends its mechanical aid to the investigation ; while it never occurs to any one 
to test the properties of taste with the point of the tongue, or to introduce the 
object under the lower surface of that member. If it be difficult to prove con- 
clusively that the rest of the mucous regions under review do not possess a sense 
of taste, it certainly exists there in a much weaker and more obtuse degree. The 
discrimination is not so easily made as might be supposed ; in such inquiries 
there ore not a few incidental sources of error. In the first place, care must be 
taken for trials of this sort, to choose substances which excite a pure and simple 
sensation of taste, and not simultaneously a sensation of touch, which may readily 
be confounded with the former. We ought not, for example, to select substances 
having what is called a sharp, hot, or rough flavor, for those are qualities of a 
sensation of touch, as are the pungent odors spoken of in our previous article on 
the sense of smell. [See Smiths. Report for 1865.] Now, as the sense of touch 
is unquestionably spread over the entire cavity of the mouth, it will be granted 
that such substances as the above may readily lead to false conclusions respecting 
the extent of the gustatory area. In the second place, it is of importance to the 
proposed investigation that the substance submitted to proof should not be con- 
veyed through the medivim of the saliva, in which it is of course dissolved, (for 
only soluble substances are capable of being tasted,) to other regions of the oral 
cavity, and so be carried to that hinder part of the tongue, whose especial sus- 
ceptibility to such impressions is admitted. Nor, for this, is any movement of 
the saliva necessary ; as a lump of sugar placed at the bottom of a vessel of 
water will, in dissolving, gradually diffuse itself through the whole mass and 
reach the surface, so may the solution of a similar substance introduced beneath 
the tongue penetrate the salivary stratum which overlies every part of the cavity, 
and attain the nerves of taste situated elsewhere. If this be the case, it will of 
course be difficult to determine the exact seat of the sensation. On the other 
hand, we are always prone to refer the sensation of taste to the point to which, 
by virtue of the sense of place, (Ortssinn,) we refer the impression of touch pro- 
duced by the contact of the substance with the ends of the nerves of feeling In 
what way this perception of place which connects itself with the sensation of 
touch arises, has been discussed at large in our previous essay on the sense of 
feeling. [Smithsonian Report, 1865.] 

If the proposed inquiry be conducted with scrupulous regard to the precau- 
tions indicated, the conclusion, we think, can scarcely fail to be reached that 
9sC6 



130 ON THE SENSES. 

only the hinder surface of the tongue is qualified to communicate sensations of 
taste. The trial may readily be made by every one for himself. Let a small 
piece of sugar, for instance, be laid on the end of the outstretched tongue, or, as 
rubbing will tend greatly to promote the sensation of taste, be rubbed thereon, 
and no perception of the property of sweetness will ensue. Still more convincing 
will be the result if an intensely bitter substance be employed. The same nega- 
tive result is obtained if we make the experiment upon other parts of the cavity 
of the mouth, and with this view the parts to be examined maybe touched with 
a small and delicate brush dipped in the concentrated solution of a sweet or 
bitter substance. If, in this way, a little drop of melted sugar be conveyed to 
the uvula which overhangs the orifice of the throat, no taste of sweetness is per- 
ceived, provided we take care, in the first place, that the tongue be not brought, 
by the involuntary retching which is apt to ensue from touching this part, into 
contact with the uvula, and, in the second place, wait not so long that the solu- 
tion shall have time to be diffused gradually with the saliva to the underlying 
surface of the tongue. If the solution be rubbed in with the brush, the sweet 
taste will be more quickly produced; but even then it unquestionably arises, 
not from the uvula, but from the back of the tongue, and the more quickly be- 
cause diffusion is promoted by the rubbing. We think, in short, that we pro- 
pose nothing unreasonable to our readers, when we invite them to admit with us 
the circumscription of the sense of taste to the small triact of surface to which 
we are disposed to assign it. 

The question next occurs, to what arrangements does this region owe its 
adaptation as an organ of sense? Were there here an apparatus as distinctly 
destined for the service of the sense as we find for that of sight in the eye, we 
should be absolved from the; necessity of so nice an investigation respecting the 
local extent of the sense of taste as that just described. But this is not the case ; 
on the contrary, we know not a single peculiarity of the region of the tongue 
empirically assumed as the province of the sense in question ; none at least 
which can be assigned to it with any such manifest certainty as that with which 
the dioptrical apparatus of the eye, and the auditory apparatus of the ear, may 
be assigned to their respective functions. Unfortunately, after long debate, it 
is not yet quite agreed to which of the special nerves of sense is appropriated 
the function of taste. No less than three distinct pairs are directed to the 
tongue, each a fasciculus of those minute fibres which we have heretofore com- 
pared to the wires of the telegraph, and each springing right and left from dif- 
ferent parts of the brain ; these are the lingual branches of the widely distributed 
fifth pair, the glosso-pharyngeal and the hypo-glossal nerves. From our remarks 
elsewhere, it is sufficiently clear that neither by microscopic observation nor from 
any peculiarity can we conjecture the distinctive operation of such a nerve ; just 
as it is impossible for us to infer whether a conducting wire, when we observe it 
at any intermediate point, is destined to set in motion the hands of a clock or 
the index of a telegraph. Anatomical research, however carefully it may explore 
the divarications of each nerve in the tongue, leads us here to no definite de- 
cision ; as well because the local boundaiies of the sense of taste are not estab- 
lished beyond doubt, as because many parts are at the same tirrie supplied by 
more than one nerve, and because, moreover, that nerve which is directed pre- 
ferably to the hinder part of the dorsum of the tongue, and therefore has the 
greater probability in' its favor, is distributed also to the entrance and neck of 
the throat, surfaces to which we know the sense of taste is denied. There 
remains, then, only the physiological experiment from which to await a decision ; 
and this also has its difficulties, though less in the realization than the interpre- 
tation of its results. It consists in dividing one of the three nerves, and in this 
manner intercepting all communication between its two extremities in the per- 
iphery and the brain, thus, of course, as effectually preventing the transmission 
of any current by which a sensible image may be formed, as the communication 



THE SENSE OF TASTE. 131 

between two telegraphic stations would be intercepted bv a rupture of the wires. 
After the division of either of the three nerves in a living animal, it remains to 
try whether the latter still possesses the power of tasting, for should it appear 
that, upon the division of any particular nerve, the faculty of the tongue to 
communicate impressions of taste on being touched with some intensely flavored 
substance is wholly lost, we shall be justified in concluding that the nerve on 
which we have operated was the vehicle of those impressions. But here lies the 
difficulty, for how are we to verify the absence or presence of the sensation in 
the animal ? The animal wants speech to indicate it, and an impression furnishes 
us with no direct objective token of its existence ; resort must, therefore, be had 
to circuitous procedures, in using which much circumspection is requisite. We 
should infer the loss of taste, if, after the operation, the animal devours, without 
signs of repugnance, ill flavored aliments which in its normal state were con- 
stantly refused. On the other hand, if suqh substances are rejected, we shall be 
authorized to infer with more certainty the persistence of the sense of taste, when 
due core has been taken that the nature of the substance is not recalled to the 
animal by its eflPects upon some other sense than that which we are investigating. 
"We should, therefore, employ in the trial no substance which, through its char- 
acteristic form is familiar to the animal's eye, and as little one which is readily 
known by its peculiar smell ; nor is a substance to be chosen which, through the 
medium of the nerves of touch in the tongue, produces a sensation of smarting 
or roughness, so commonly confounded with impressions of taste; finally, we 
would, in this inquiry, discard anything to which the animal is altogether indif- 
ferent. Only such articles, therefore, are free from objection and suitable for a 
decision of the question as those whose properties can be made sensible to the 
animal through the sense of taste alone; and none better answers the purpose 
than a decoction of so bitter and repulsive a substance as colocynth presented 
in milk. If this mixture be offered to the unwounded dog, allured by the sight 
of the milk and without suspicion of the foreign substance, he will greedily apply 
himself to what he supposes to be a well-known dainty ; but let a drop once pass 
the seat of taste, and no sign of disgust will be wanting which a dog can mani- 
fest. If, now, we divide one of the three nerves, the glosso-pharyngeal for 
instance, which chiefly supplies the hinder part of the tongue's surface, and find 
that the dog devours the milk, notwithstanding its bitter ingredient, with accus- 
tomed avidity, we may safely infer that the divided nerve was the channel of 
the sensation of taste, especially when, after a division of the two other nerves, 
persistent refusal on the part of the animal has testified a perception of the 
nauseous admixture. 

Now, this has been tried with seemingly decisive results : the most careful 
experiments have uniformly led to the conclusion that the true impressions of 
taste can only exist when the glosso-pharyngeal nerves are intact ; while on the 
other hand it has been shown with great certainty that the filaments of the 
hypo-glossal nerve pass to the muscular fibres of the tongue, and by conveying 
to these the motive current from the seats of the will in the brain, communicate 
to the organ the power of motion ; that, further, the lingual branch of the fifth 
pair furnishes to the tongue its sensations of touch, thus notifying us of the form, 
size, weight, softness, or solidity, as well .as the temperature, of whatever is intro- 
duced into the mouth, and sometimes, too, giving occasion to those perceptions 
of mordacity or roughness which we are apt to confound with the genuine im- 
pressions of taste. We shall not here enter into a discussion of the importance 
of the service rendered by the two last nerves ; our good readers will, perhaps, 
take the trouble of reflecting for themselves upon the manifold disadvantages 
under which we should lie in the affair of eating aud drinking ; nay, how im- 
possible in some cases it might prove, if our tongue possessed not the faculty of 
moving voluntarily in all directions, nor its exquisite delicacy .as an instrument 
for examining th^t quality of all substances introduced into the mouth. We must 



132 ON THE SENSES. 

also be excused for not attempting to give a detailed anatomical description of 
the thae nerves of taste, convinced, as we are, that to the generality of readers 
such information would be of little avail. We might, indeed, have contented our- 
selves with assuring them that to a certain nerve, called the glosso-pharyngeal 
nerve, we owe the sensations of taste, but thought best to present to them an 
explicit statement of the manner in whicli this fact has been arrived at, because 
our object in these essays is rather to interest the laity in the learning of scientific 
methods than in unprofitable details. The result of these methods in evincing 
the glosso-pharyngeal nerve to be the vehicle of the impressions of taste, besides 
the experiments on animals above described, rests also on some scanty observa- 
tions made upon man himself; for which, but with extreme rarity, a morbid de- 
generation or even destruction of the nerve in question has afforded opportunity. 

The reader will no doubt willingly dispense with a critical discussion of the 
dissenting opinions of certain physiologists who regard the lingual branches of 
■ the fifth pair as partially, if not exclusively, invested with the functions of taste. 
The fact above mentioned that the glosso-pharyngeal nerve, as its name im- 
plies, sends filaments to the pharynx as well as the tongue, neither fui-nishes 
an objection to the results obtained. by experiment, nor afi"ords a ground for the 
conclusion that the parts of the mucous membrane of the throat in which its 
fibres terminate possess also the sense of taste. It may easily be conceived that 
only those fibres of the nerve passing to the tongue are provided at their inner 
and terminal extremities with the indispensable apparatus for the reception of 
the impressions and their conversion into the sensations of taste, while the rest 
are simply adapted to the transmission of the sensations of touch. We must 
content ourselves with this as a conjecture, for, unfortunately, it has not been 
found possible to trace with distinctness the filaments of either of the three nerves 
to their utmost extremities, and to discover there any special structural arrange- 
ment. We shall point out only the following peculiarities of the mucous coat of the 
tongue. Every one must have observed either in himself or others, or else in 
the tongue of the ox when it has been prepared for food, that the upper sur- 
face is not smooth, but rough; though, in man, the unevenness is so slight, that 
to the unaided eye this surface presents a velvety appearance, while in the ox 
it is so rough, botli to sight and touch, as to resemble a rasp. Each of the little 
projections which occupy it appears under the microscope as a very composite 
organ, on the whole of a quite regular form. We distinguish, according to their 
outline, tiiree sorts of these projections : the fungiforin, the filiform, and the 
circumvallate, to all of whicli the general name of papillse is given. The first 
are found especially on the upper surface on the point of the tongue; the second 
are distributed over the whole of the member; the third occur only towards 
its base, where they are arranged upon its surface to the number of from 
ten to twelve in the shape of a V. If the tongue be stretched as far as possible 
out of the mouth this V and the flattened eminences which form it, placed at 
intervals and surrounded by a sort of foss, may readily be seen. A more exact 
description of these three sorts of projections will not, we think, be without 
interest. 

As they ai-e merely elevations of the outer coat of the tongue they consist 
of the same two membranes with that coat, viz: an outer covering, called thn 
epithelium, and the proper mucous membrane. The epithelium consists of cells 
multifariously superposed on one another, the uppermost layers of which become 
dried into flat and angular little scales, while the lower are moist and roundish. 
By the use of the tongue the former are continually worn off, and may be ob 
served with the microscope as a constant ingredient of the saliva, which they 
render turbid; to repair this loss new cells are always forming below. Th ; 
layers thus constituted are destined undoubtedly to furnish protection to thii 
underlying mucous tissue which contains the fine and easily wounded vessels 
and nerves, just as in the external skin the epidermis, which is similarly composed, 



THE SENSE OF TASTE. 133 

serves as a protective covering to the cutis. The accompanying figures, repre- 
senting a section of three sorts of papillse magnified, may serve as the grouncl- 



1 1 1'. 








'/^:,\^mB 



III 



work of a more exact description of each. In figure I is presented the section of a 
filiform ; in figure II that of a fungiform ; and in figure III that of a circumvallate. 
In all of them the part designated by a represents the epithelium, consisting of 
squamous and cellular layers; that marked h the underlying mucous membrane. 
It will be seen at first sight that the epithelium in neither form invests the sub- 
jacent mucous membrane as a glove does the finger, so that the outer surface 
of the former shall present an exact impression of that of the latter. In the 
filiform papillae it will be observed that the epithelium has a number of long 
antenna-like excrescences, giving the papillfc the appearance of a brush, while in 
the others this covering is externally smooth, notwithstanding the inequalities 
of the underlying membrane h, whose surface exhibits in each example a num- 
ber of successive and rather narrow eminences of a sugar-loaf or conical form. 
What purpose the antennte of the first form subserve it is impossible to con- 
jecture; but, as regards the regular elevation of the proper mucous membrane, 
their presence alike in each of the three kinds of papillte, as well as the circum- 
stance of their existence likewise in the outer skin, leads to the conclusion that 
wherever they occur, whatever otherwise their diversity, the physiological 
signification which they bear must be the same. Now, as the microscope shows 
us, that, as regards the outer skin and in part, at least, the mucous membrane of 
the tongue, the finest branches of the blood vessels and the terminal extremities 
of the nerves are found in these little eminences, the inference is obvious that 
this peculiar formation of the surface is imposed on account of the organic eon- 
tents of the eminences, providing, as it does, suitable receptacles in the periphery 
for the ends of the vessels, and especially the nerves, and securing their regular 
distribution over the surface. We may conceive that it behooved that the 
ends of vessels and nerves should closely approach the outer surface at a regu- 
lated distance from one another, which purpose indeed might have been attained 
had these minute organs penetrated at certain intervals from the mucous mei% 
brane into the loose strata of the epithelium ; but then they must have wanted 
a sutficieutly stable involucrum to protect them against the pressure and con- 
tinual wasting of the shifting elements of that covering. Now, such protection 



134 ON THE SENSES. 

is supplied by the enveloping projections of the mucous membrane which enter 
into corresponding cavities of the epithelium. We are aware that this, teleo- 
logical mode of considering anatomical arrangements as directed to a pre-deter- 
mined end, and contrived with a view to attaining that end, will at present be 
received in. many quarters with entire repugnance; wherefore we shall not here 
further insist upon it. Enough, if the preceding example should serve to show 
how well this manner of viewing the subject is adapted to lead us to an under- 
standing of such arrangements. The clearest method of explaining natural as 
well as artificial mechanism is, in our opinion, that which bases itself upon teleo- 
logical principles ; how far the employment of teleology for purposes of demon- 
stration may be justified is another question 

Returning to a consideration of the papillae we remark that, for. a proper con- 
ception of them, attention should be especially directed to the delicate structure 
of the small secondary projections of the mucous membrane, with a view to 
seeking therein the ends of the nerves and apparatus of sensation. But hitherto 
all efforts have been fruitless, nor has research in this direction been rewarded 
with the slightest degree of certainty. Neither in the filiform, nor fungifoim, 
nor circumvallate papillse has success attended the attempt to explore the ulti- 
mate destination of the nerves which direct their minute filaments with extreme 
intricacy towards the surface, to follow them into the interior of the superficial 
projections of the mucous membrane, and there detect a difference of arrange- 
ments which might guide us to a decision respecting a difference of functions. 
However probable the supposition that the filiform and fungiform papillff; con- 
tain the ends and apparatus of the nerves of touch; that the circumvallate, on 
the other hand, which occupy the centre of the seat of taste, and are outwardly 
so strikingly distinguished, contain those of the nerves of taste ; yet we are 
imable to furnish anatomical evidence for that supposition, or indeed to establish 
it conclusively through physiological experiments. Even the peculiarity of ex- 
ternal form of these latter papillae is a riddle ; we cannot explain what purpose 
is subserved by their division into a roundish central elevation A, and an annular 
periphery B, separated from one another by a distinct foss 0. If we ventured 
to assert that this foss fui'nishes a sort of reservoir in which the solutions of 
sapid objects are received in order, by longer contact with the sensitive surface, 
to take more full effect on the extremities of the nerves, while the passage of 
those solutions over a free surface might be too rapid for distinct perception, we 
should only be advancing au empcy conjecture for which no proof could be alleged. 
Nothing remains for us, therefore, but to wait until, by persevering and patient 
observation, some deeper insight into the secret mechanism of the organs in ques- 
tion shall be vouchsafed, and material be thereby furnished for physiological inter- 
pretation. 

While it fares so unsatisfactorily with our knowledge of the organs of taste, we 
are, unfortunately, not much better off as regards our knowledge of the nature and 
conditions of the external influences which call forth a sensation of taste of what- 
ever quality. We know well what substances produce such sensations, and bear 
in mind a correct idea of the kind of impression connected with their use, so that 
we again recognize the substances by that impression, or, even without their pres- 
ence, easily recall, in imagination, the sour, or sweet, or bitter qualities which dis- 
tinguish them. But this knowledge, in which the epicures must be recognized as 
graduates, though the basis of our practical use of the sense of taste, avails us little 
or nothing to a mastery of the physiological theory. We know even more : we 
know accurately the physical and chemical properties of the greater number of 
sapid substances, and are dumb notwithstanding to the capital question, what 
property is it which makes a substance sapid, and qualifies it for the excitement of 
such or such a sensation ? We know no single property common to all sapid mat- 
ters which can be even remotely identified as the cause of their operation on the 
nerves of taste, and in which we can seek the source of their peculiar action. To 



THE SENSE OF TASTE. 135 

illustrateourinc.apacity of arriving by physical or chemical analysis at any decisive 
results on this subject, we shall cite one or two examples. Sugar may serve as the 
representative of sweet substances ; we know that it is composed of twelve atoms 
of carbon, hydrogen, and oxygen, and how it is affected by all chemical agents ; we 
know, also, its physical properties, such as solubility in equivalent proportions, 
requiring here no further discrimination. Plow is it now that this substance, on 
its contact, in solution, with the mucous membrane of the tongue, produces an 
excitation, whether chemical, thermal, electrical, or mechanical, which gives rise, 
by its action on the ends of the nerves, to that specific modification of the 
nervous current to which an appropriate sensation of taste instantly icsponds 
in the brain ? We may well suppose that the sugar does not take effect on the 
nerves' hidden under the epithelium until imbibed by the latter, and thus brought 
into proximity with their extremities ; but even if it penetrated into immediate 
contact with them, in what respect is the solution of the question advanced ? If 
we bring dissolved sugar into contact with the nerves of the muscles not a fibre 
stirs; a sufficient proof that sugar is in itself no "adequate" irritant of the 
nerves. AVhat, then, qualifies the sugar for excitation of the nerves of taste ? 
The obvious answer is, the presence of some special arrangement at the ends of 
these nerves. But of Avhat sort is it 1 How and by what means does the sugar 
operate upon it ? How, through those means, is a nervous excitation produced ? 
This is the riddle to be solved, but it offers at present so much resistance to the 
sharpest powers of divination that we decline any attempt to meddle with it. 
The matter becomes still more inexplicable when we consider that, in the first 
place, sugar is not the only substance that tastes sweet, but that a multitude of 
other substances, in no respect resembling it either physically or chemically, pro- 
duces the same sensation in the organs of taste ; and, in the second place, that 
slill other substances, which are most nearly related to sugar, having even the 
same composition, generate either no sensation at all or produce oneof a wholly 
different character. What, for instance, have sugar and a combination of lead 
with acetic acid in common that both should taste sweet 1 What sulphate of 
magnesia and quinine that both should taste bitter 1 What distinguishes sugar 
from starch that the former should produce a sweet taste, the latter no taste at 
all ? No answer can be given, and we should but freight our page with useless 
verbiage did we give a list of all the substances having properties thus compara- 
ble. As regards other senses, that of sight, for example, we are in abetter posi- 
tion. True, that even here we do not know in what consists the operation of 
light on the extremities of the optic ilerve, whence result their excitation and 
mediately the sensation of light. But Ave do know, in the first place, that at 
those extremities there exists a wonderfully complicated apparatus in which Ave 
can recognize the intermediary between light and nerve, through whose agency 
the former becomes an adequate irritant of the latter ; and we know, in the second 
place, by what momentum of the outAvard agent, light, the quality of the sen- 
sation is determined ; it is practicable to state mathematically the degree of mo- 
mentum adapted to each sensation. The undulatory movements of the luminous 
ether produce the excitation of the nerves of sight ; the velocity of those movements 
qualifies the sensation so as to produce the colors which we see. A definite 
amount of this velocity is universally necessary for the production of the excita- 
tion ; Ave are able to specify the smallest number of oscillations in a second of 
time AA'hich cannot be diminished, the largest number which cannot be increased, 
without producing in either case an extinction of the effect of the Avaves of light 
on the visual nerves; we are able, also, to state Aviih entire certainty the unal- 
terable number of oscillations respectively pertaining to the perceptions to whicli 
Ave give such names as red, green, yellow, or blue. Bo it is, also,Avith rcg-ard to 
the sense of hearing ; Avhat has just been said of the waves of light and their 
relations to the organs of vision and impressions of color may be translerred, 
with only verbal ':»hanges. to the Avaves of sound which produce the excitation 



136 ON THE SENSES. 

of the auditory nerves. Both these latter senses we propose to examine as exactly 
as possible hereafter, when the advantages which we possess for their analytical 
study in comparison with the sense of taste, and which are here only intimated, 
will be more thoroughly considered, and, we hope, more clearly evinced. 

However unknown to us the properties which give to substances the power of 
producing sensations of taste and the way in which they operate on the nerves 
of that sense, it is, at least, some compensation that we know to a certain ex- 
tent the conditions under which a substance empirically recognized as an object 
of taste exerts its specific power, and the circumstances on which the intensity 
of the impression depends. First stands the fact that a substance can produce 
no such impression unless it reaches the seat of this sense in a fluid form ; if of 
a solid nature it must at least be first dissolved in the saliva. This condition 
restilts from the necessity, which was above provisionally assumed, that the 
sapid substance shall penetrate through the coat of epithelium to the mucous 
membrane. A solid body, even reduced to the finest powder, could not make 
Its way through the closely compacted cells of which the covering of the tongue 
consists; but in solution it will be imbibed first by one and then by another 
stratum of these cells, until it finally reaches the underlying and sensitive sur- 
face. Now these successive imbibitions may be supposed to imply the lapse of 
a sensible interval of time, and yet experience teaches us that 'no interval can 
be appreciated between the moment of contact with the tongue and that of the 
ensuing sensation. Still, and in spite of this apparent contradiction, we must 
insist that no alternative remains for us but to accept this theory of a gradual 
transmission, seeing that it is supported by the admitted necessity of solution 
for producing sensations of taste, and no other supposition is possible. More- 
over, we have no knowledge of the rapidity with which such transmission is 
accomplished, so that there is at least no proof that it may not be sufficiently 
great to render the interval in question quite inappreciable. 

From what has been said it results that a body which is insoluble in water, 
and cannot therefore fulfil the above condition, is incapable of yielding a sensa- 
tion of taste. We must take care, however, not to reason conversely that solu- 
bility in water is the actual quality which in itself fits a substance for the ex- 
citation of the gustatory nerves. That this is not the case, obviously follows 
from the fact that many substances readily soluble in water are tasteless— nay, 
that water itself is so. Were solubility as directly the condition of taste as the 
undulations of the luminous ether aru the condition of sight, a substance to be 
more sapid — that is, capable in smaller quantity of" conveying a more intense sen- 
sation — should be the more soluble ; but this common experience refutes. Ex- 
tremely soluble bodies sometimes convey a very faint taste; others, soluble' only 
with difficulty, an intense one. The degree of concentration of the solution re- 
quisite m general to produce a sensation of taste is very different with different sub- 
stances ; while some act in a very diluted stale, others require a concentration 
nearly equivalent to saturation. It has been elsewhere stated that as regards 
odorous substances, a scale has been established by experiment showing the de- 
gree of impregnation of inhaled air, requisite in the case of different articles 
for the production of a sensation of smell ; and in like manner it has been at- 
tempted experimentally to assign values to the different degrees of dilution 
which different objects of taste will bear, without thereby losing their property 
of gustatory excitation: The numbers thus found afford of course no absolutely 
exact valuation, but as a general appreciation they furnish in this respect a suf- 
ficiently accurate comparison of the different substances submitted to trial. We 
will not withhold from our readers some of the results. It would perhaps be 
scarcely supposed that sugar rates unfiivorably in this scale of values— indeed, 
tne most untavorably of the compared substances as regards their relative ca- 
pacity for dilution without loss of taste. Solutions of sugar which contain less 
than one part of sugar to 99 parts of water, no longer excite any perceptible 



THE SENSE OF TASTE. 137 

taste of sweetness. Common salt bears a somewhat greater degree of dilution ; 
the universal remedy for intennittent fever, quinine, remains perceptible under a 
much greater degree, while sulphuric acid (oil of vitriol) takes rank before all ; 
water, in which only too^o P''^^'*' ^^ sulphuric acid is dissolved, still tastes 
perceptibly sour. Acid substances, as many readers both male and female will 
be able to certify from experiences gained in cookery, most readily impart their 
sapid qualities. On what conditions these surprising diversities depend, it is 
beyond our power to explain. 

With one and the same body, the intensity of the sensation of taste v^-hich it 
excites increases with the progressive concentration of the solution ; a law 
which needs no other proof than daily experience. As regards the comparison 
of intensities, it will be well to remember what was elsewhere said on sensations 
in general, and especially on those of touch ; we have no measure by which we 
can estimate an impression of taste, so as to give it an exact numerical expres- 
sion. If we test, one after the other, two solutions of sugar of different concen- 
tration, we cannot, if the difference is slight, decide which is the sweeter ; we 
cannot say that one tastes half, twice, thrice, or tenfold as sweet as another 
with which it is compared. Though this by the way : the intensity of the sen- 
sation depends not alone on the degree of concentration of the solution, but on 
several other circumstances, whose agency is in part susceptible of explana- 
tion, in part not so. It is easily understood that the strength of the sensation 
increases in proportion as the surface is larger on which the solution operates, 
and the time longer during which it is in contact with that surface. Just as of 
two bodies of equal weight that seems to us to be heavier which presses on a 
larger surface of the skin, and thus gives excitation to a larger number of the 
nerves of touch, so the same solution of sugar will seem sweeter, if diffused over 
the whole area endowed with the sense of taste, than when merely a drop of it 
touches a circumscribed part of the mucous membrane. Thus the intensity of 
the sensation increases with the sum of the nerve fibres simultaneously excited, 
because the single impressions seem, in conception at least, to be in some meas- 
ure combined with one another. The more intense effect produced by prolonged 
contact of the object with the tongue may be inferred to result from the pene- 
tration of greater quantities of the substance to the nerve extremities of the 
mucous membrane; and for this, too, an analogy may be found in the operations 
of the sense of touch. A hot surface seems less hot on transient than prolonged • 
contact with the skin, from the circumstance, in the first instance at least, that 
time is wanting to conduct the particles of caloric in sufficient quantity through 
the cuticle to the ends of the underlying nerves. One of the most essential 
conditions for increasing the intensity of a sensation of taste consists in the 
friction of the solution against the surface of the tongue, or of the latter with 
the solution against the hard palate. This resource comes into play habitually 
in the act of taking either solid or liquid food, but we moi-e particularly avail 
ourselves of it in tasting, with a view to a more accurate judgment of the flavor 
of any substance. In this case we do not content ourselves with laying the 
object of which we would form a judgment upon the tongue and quietly await- 
ing the sensation, but bring it by an incipient movement of deglutition to the 
hinder part of the tongue, and press this in turn against the hard palate. It is 
at the moment of this contact, produced by a movement which is indispensable 
in the act of swallowing, that the most vivid sensation arises, as every one may 
convince himself who pays attention to what occurs during the process of taking 
food. For further confirmation of the fact the following experiment may be 
practiced : Let the tongue be stretched out, with the mouth widely opened, so 
that the former can no where strike against the roof of the ca*ity, and a drop of 
dissolved sugar or vinegar be placed upon its surface, only a very weak sensa- 
tion will ensue, with an instinctive effort to press the tongue against the palate, 
because we are unaccustomed, except by this means, to conduct the operation 



138 ON THE SENSES. 

of tasting. The sensation will instantly become stronger if, with the finger or 
a brush, we rub the solution upon the mucous surface of the tongue. Here, 
also, we are at a loss for any certain explanation ; we can only remotely con- 
jecture how the means spoken of serve to promote and intensify the excitation 
of the nerves of taste. It may be that the pressure and rubbing facilitate the 
Intermixture of the solution with the salivary stratum which covers the mem- 
brane and its penetration among the cells of the epithelium, or that the pres- 
sure applied to the extremities of the nerves renders these more sensitive and 
excitable. This latter conjecture, we confess, though received with favor by 
some, has, in our opinion, little probability. So long as we know nothing of 
the means or the mode by which substances communicate sensations to the 
nerves of taste, all hypotheses on this siibject must be air-built speculations. 
How a mechanical force, a compression of the nerves, can heighten their excita- 
bility, must be mere matter of conjecture, and finds for its support no analogy 
in the action of other nerves. We must be content, therefore, to consign this, 
with the many other questions which we have been obliged to leave unan- 
swered, to the category of riddles, for whose exact solution we can only look to 
a perhaps distant future. 

We know from experience that the sense of taste not only possesses a very 
different degree of delicacy in different individuals, but that, even in the same 
individual, its delicacy is sometimes more, sometimes less exquisite. The causes 
of this difference are not, in all cases, easily shown. It cannot be denied that 
a different degree of functional activity of the organs of taste may be innate ; 
but to what parts of the organ the difference is attributable and what properties 
adapt this or that part to the reception of a keener impression, and its conver- 
sion into a more distinct sensation of taste, cannot in the present state of our 
knowledge be determined. It is but seldom that we observe in the organ ot 
taste, the tongue, those gross and obvious defects which might lead us before- 
hand to infer an obtuseness of the sense, such; for instance, as a thick and 
corneous condition of the epithelium, perceptible rugosities, &c. In most cases 
of difference of fineness of taste in different persons, the cause is to be sought, 
not so much in congenital or casual deviations of the apparatus, as in diversities 
of cultivation, of education of the sense. It is a remarkable fact that, through 
judicious practice directed to that end, the operations of all our senses may be 
improved to an extraordinary extent, and the way in which this refinement is 
brought about by diligent and heedful usage, presents one of the most interest- 
ing questions of physiology. Is the mechanism of the organs of sense im- 
proved by use, or is it only that, with an unchanged condition of the original 
mechanism, more facility is acquired in understanding their operations 1 In 
other words, are material changes produced by use in the apparatus of the 
senses, or is it the immaterial principle of our nature which derives advantage 
from that use ? Probably, both suppositions are, in a certain degree, true. It 
would be difficult to adduce direct proof of the improvement of the proper ap- 
paratus of the senses, but analogies, drawn from other physiological apparatus, 
give countenance to its possibility. A muscle becomes so changed through 
strenuous use, that not only are its powers of performance increased, but a 
higher activity of nutrition supervenes, and the number of its fibres, on which 
depends its strength,, is also increased. The blood secretes more material ap- 
plicable to the formation of such fibres in employed than in unemployed mus- 
cles ; a muscle, indeed, precluded from all activity, ceases to receive nourish- 
ment and perishes through inanition. Perhaps also the quality of the nutri- 
ment supplied is improved by the exercise of the muscle, so that, without actual 
increase of the fibres, those already existing may be qualified for greater mani- 
festation of power. Daily experience affords proof of the above. It needs but 
to compare the firm and prominent muscle in the arm of a smith with the flac- 
cid, scarcely developed muscle in that of a recluse, the muscular leg of a cha- 



THE SENSE OF TASTE. 139 

mois liimter -with that of a sedentary artisan. But there is often to be seen 
also, in individuals of spare habit, in whom there is outwardly no striking mus- 
cular development, a surprising strength and energy of the muscles, which would 
indicate the enhanced nutrition of those organs arising from continued use. 
The muscles, then, being susceptible of this improvement by use, what should 
forbid our inferring that the working capacity of the apparatus of the senses 
may, in like manner, be nourished to a higher degree of perfection by habitual 
exercise ? But whether the whole result should be referred to habitual use and 
exercise, is extremely doubtful ; for those, at least, to whom soul and nerve ap- 
paratus are not identical. While it may well be believed that an organ of 
sense may be impi'oved to such a point by material treatment as to be more 
sensitive to related impressions, it would seem impossible to explain by a sim- 
ply improved mechanism the vastly increased delicacy of discrimination ac- 
quired by practice in distinguishing different impressions or different degrees of 
the same quality of impressions. If we consider the soul as an immaterial 
principle, which is indeed consigned to the material organs for all its intercourse 
with the outward world, and yet is so far independent as to be capable of a 
different cultivation through the employment of the same unchanged organs, 
we may also assume that it first gradually learns to interpret and discrimhiate 
the permanent processes in the sensitive apparatus, and will of course make the 
greater progress therein, the greater its practice. We are here venturing, how- 
ever, into a province where no ordinary sagacity is requisite to find a sure 
route, and to pursue it without stumbling upon prejudices or deviating into by- 
paths. We return, therefore, to our immediate subject. 

Examples of the degree of delicacy to which the sense of taste may be trained 
by use need not detain us. Every one may find them among his acquaintances, 
and few probably of my readers are without a knowledge of some connoisseur iu 
wines, who, from the taste of the precious juice, will undertake to pronounce the 
year and vineyard which were privileged with its production. Though in such 
cases there may be often pretence or self-deception, yet it is certain that the sense 
of smell and even that of touch afford, for these trials, a degree of succor to the 
sense of taste ; even common parlance recognizes the " bloom," the " bouquet," 
or again the " harshness," of certain objects submitted to the scrutiny of the latter ; 
still there remains for the share of the sense in question enough to secure respect 
for its educational capacity. It is not, however, iu different individuals only tliat 
striking differences iu the delicacy of the sense of taste occur ; they present them- 
selves frofti time to time in one and the same individual, as the experience of every 
one will testify. Thus it happens, notixufrequeutly, that a severe catarrh migrates 
from the pituitary tunic of the nose to the mucous membrane of the mouth, and 
occupies the latter to such an extent that, in a scarcely exaggerated sense, all taste 
may be said to be lost. In this uncomfortable state, food excites only the im- 
pressions of touch, often improperly confounded with what is called a " clammy 
taste," though in truth no genuine sensation of taste exists ; with the exception, 
perhaps, of that generated by intensely sour or bitter objects, which still is scarcely 
itiore than a counterfeit of the sensation excited by the same objects in a healthy 
condition of the organ. In the same way loss or depravation of taste is a very 
regular concomitant of many disorders of the stomach and bowels, manifested in 
some cases by hebetation of the organ, in others by perverted sensations, as when, 
for instance, all substances leave a bitter after-taste. We may remark, finally, 
that very intense impressions of taste blunt the susceptibility for succeeding and 
weaker impressions of the same quality, whence after partaking of a sour salad, 
the wine bibber may smack his lips over the sourest products from the vineyards 
of Griineberg ; while, on the other hand, the sensibility to impressions of another 
Quality seems to be exalted, so that after the enjoyment of a sweet confection, the 
least acidity causes the best wine to taste like vinegar. For these facts we can 
propose only superficial and fragmentary explanations. As regards the bodily 



140 ^ ON THE SENSES. 

ailments above spoken of, it is safe to make of the more or less thickened 
and furred envelope of the tongue a scape-goat on which we may cast, in the 
first instance, the blame of the defective or vitiated sensibility to objects of taste. 
We may suppose, moreover, that in catarrh, exudations from the mucous mem- 
brane clog its tissues, and thus impair the irritability of the extremities of the 
nerves, or in some way embarrass the yet unexplained action of sapid substances 
on those nerves. But such an explanation or supposition does not carry us far. 
What really gives rise to the incidental perversion of the sensations in question, 
can scarcely be the subject of even plausible conjecture, so long as we know not 
the nature of that excitation which different substances produce in the nerves, so 
long as we are ignorant how a sweet or bitter taste comes to be generated. That 
after a sour substance, a sweet one tastes doubly sweet, the reader may be dis- 
posed to explain by the effect of contrast. This explanation we shall not in general 
contest, but most earnestly protest against the commonly received notion that a 
sweet and a sour taste are opposites of one another. Between two sensations of 
different quality, whether they belong to the same or different spheres of sense, 
there exists no tertium comparationis, and so nothing which will authorize its to 
regard them as opposites. It is just as unreasonable to consider a sour taste the 
opposite of a sweet one, as to attribute opposition to the sensations of a red and 
green color, or a shrill and a deep tone, as if the one stood in diametric relation 
to the other as a north or south pole. Could the two sensations be even assigned 
to external causes essentially antithetical, weshould not be justified in transferring 
this character to the sensations themselves. These are incapable of all descrip- 
tion ; they admit not of measurement or division, and can as little be brought into 
the relationship of opposition as of numerical value. 

We must not pass without at least a brief notice the qfter-iaste or tang, 
although in truth its nature and causes are as obscure as those of tlje proper 
sensations of taste. This after -taste exists in a twofold manner. With some 
substances, the original sensation which they create continues of the same un-* 
changed quality for a long time after they have been swallowed and been dis- 
placed on the tongue by other substances. With others, again, after the retreat 
of the sensation originally excited, another supervenes of quite different quality. 
Thus there are bitter substances whose taste is not to be got rid of, as it is 
commonly expressed ; and on the other hand, sweet substances which create a bit- 
ter after-taste. When this after-taste is of like quality with the original sensa- 
tion, it is not easy to decide whether it is of a purely objective nature, or in 
part, at least, subjective; that is to say, whether the action of the substance 
which generates the primary sensation itself persists as long as the after-taste 
endures, or whether, for some reason, the excitation of the nerves, or the activity 
of that central apparatus which operates directly on the sensorium and deter- 
mines the nature of the sensation, continues even after the disappearance of the 
substance from the environs of the nerve extremities. Of the last there is no 
existing proof; the objective nature of the after-taste is, on the other hand, 
readily conceivable and capable of explanation in different ways. It is very 
possible that certain substances, having once penetrated into the mucous mem- 
brane, cling more pertinaciously than others to its structural tissues, without 
being removed, by absorption or chemical decomposition, i'rom the vicinity of 
the nerve extremities on which, therefore, they continue to operate. The prob- 
abilities in favor of this origin of the after-taste are greater, the smaller the 
quantities of the substance necessary to produce the sensation. In the second 
place, it may well be supposed that there are substances capable of affecting 
the nerves of taste through the blood; indeed, it is certain that many ''sub- 
jective" sensations of taste, which, from time to time, present themselves with- 
out any external cause, are in reality objective in the sense that substancea 
conveyed from the bowels into the blood have been in such cases carried by 
the latter to the mucous membrane of the tongue, and thus reach the sensitive 



THE SENSE OF TASTE. 141 

extremities of the nerves of taste. The proof of this lies in the often-observed 
fact that, when intensely bitter substances have been swallowed in the shape 
of pills so well enveloped that they pass over the tongue without exciting the 
characteristic taste, that taste will nevertheless arise in the mouth after a cer- 
tain time.' As regards the second sort of after taste, ^yhere its quality differs 
from that of the primary taste, we are again left in doubt how far it is objective, 
how far subjective. It is very possible that certain objects of taste suffer, within 
the raucous tissues, a rapid change or chemical decomposition, and in this al- 
tered condition affect the nerves of taste in a different manner than at first. 
But it is also conceivable that the different after-taste results from a spontane- 
ous reaction of the nerve apparatus ; a supposition, however, which admits 
neither of proof nor .closer examination. 

In like manner with the impressions of touch and smell, of which we have 
elsewhere treated, those of taste are regularly and unavoidably associated with 
ideas which mankind in general are apt erroneously to identify with the im- 
pressions themselves. On this head, our previous discussions authorize us to be 
brief. With the impressions of taste is immediately connected the idea of an 
external object, as cause of the sensation, and with so little consciousness of the 
distinction between the sensation and the idea that we believe ourselves to be 
directly tastin;^- the object as such, and impute to it the qualities of the* sensa- 
tion as a property. Thus every one speaks of sweet and sour substances as if 
the sweetness' or sourness were a property of the .substance itself, just as we 
speak of red and blue objects in the meaning that the color is a property of the 
object. Most probably we arrive at the idea of an external object as cause of 
the sensation of taste not through this sensation itself, but through the accom- 
panying impressions of touch, which simultaneously enable us to form the idea 
of the 2>la(^<i at which the gustatory impression takes effect. With sensations of 
taste are also connected ideas of pleasantness, unpleasantness, nauseousness, &c., 
which are in like manner erroneously confounded with the sensations. An im- 
pression on the organs of sense cannot in itself be pleasant or unpleasant. 
Further, it is often not the immediate gustatory impression which calls up the 
idea, for this idea may take its shape from mental associations previously estab- 
lished, or in part from simultaneous sensations of taste or smell. 

The above is all that we have felt authorized by the present state of our 
knowledge respecting the physiology of the sense of taste to impart to the reader 
as worthy of his confidence. We might here desist, but it is, perhaps, proper 
to offer a few remarks in regard to the practical uses to which the sense of taste 
is adapted, even if the first considerations which present themselves, as was the 
case when we formerly treated of the sense of smell, may seem calculated to dis- 
parage its value as an endowment of the human or animal economy. In this 
point of view, it is a matter of indifference whether we ask, of what advantage 
is the sense of taste 1 or what was the design in endowing the organism with that 
sense ? The answer to both forms of inquiry rests essentially on the same prin- 
ciples. It is customary to regard the sense in question as a sentinel, so to speak, 
of the digestion, stationed at the portal of the alimentary passages, to challeuge 
the various articles which present themselves for admission, and to enable us to 
discriminate the hurtful from the wholesome. Nor is this view incorrect, only it 
is necessary, first, to assign the limits vithin which this sentinel may be trusted ; 
and, secondly, to inquire how far its function is an independent one. It would 
certainly be disastrous for nutrition and health if we committed ourselves blindly 
to such a monitor as this ; death from inanition or poison must lie everywhere in 
wait for us, if we resigned ourselves without reserve to its indications. The 
sense of taste is itself indeed no sentinel ; the quality of a sensation of taste can, 
of itself, in nowise disclose to us whether a substance is wholesome or unwhole- 
some, seeing that there are many tasteless substances which are the former, and 
not a few of the latter which are well flavored. The sense of taste is in this 



142 ON THE SENSES 

respect only like the indications furnished by a clock; we must understand the 
signification of the numbers of the dial plate and the movement of the hands if 
we would derive from the clock information as to time : so we must learn by 
circuitous experiences to interpret the different qualities of the sensations of 
taste, if we would avail ourselves of them in the diagnosis of food and poison. 
It is difficult to say how we are determined to the choice of our first nourish- 
ment; an impulse wholly enigmatical urges the new-born child to its mother's 
breast, nor must we imagine that we make any progress towards an explanation 
when we call this impulse an instinct ; that is only a word by which we supply 
our want of a clear idea. But whatever the nature of the impulse, a sensation 
of peculiar quality is imparted by the milk of which we are thus led to partake, 
and this quality, impressed upon the memory, serves us ever after for the recog- 
nition of that particular nutriment. And so with all other means of nutrition, 
whether instinct or experience may have taught us to recognize them as such ; 
the sensations excited by them impress themselves upon us, and, with each, an 
idea of the nature of the corresponding object. Thus we learn by the sensation 
to distinguish the objects, but in nowise do we learn from the sensations the sig- 
nificancy of those objects as regards life and health. When we partake of food, 
the previously instructed sense informs us of the kind and quantity of its sapid 
ingredients ; it is upon our own experience or that of others that we found our 
judgment of their nutritious or noxious character. Unfortunately for the epicure, 
the antagonist ideas of pleasant and distasteful can in no manner be brought to 
conform absolutely with the two categories of food and poison ; many a culinary 
preparation of simplest flavor is an excellent nutriment ; many a delicacy, which 
tickles the palate to an exquisite degree, is either innutritions or positively 
hurtful. Finally, it is to be remembered that among the safest viands as the sub- 
tlest poisons there are some which are quite insipid, to which, therefore, the 
vigilance of the sentinel palate can by no possibility extend. These patent 
truths it is unnecessary to re-enforce by multiplied examples. What would it 
avail, indeed, to prove that a plain milk-porridge as much surpasses a truffle- 
pastry in nutritious properties as it falls behind it in savoriness ? We should 
make thereby as few proselytes as did the barbarous reformer who once set a 
whole community in ferment with the words, " Beer is poison." 



IV.— THE SENSE OF HEARING. 

We enter now upon a sphere of sensation in which we feel that we have a surer 
footing than when dealing with the enigmatical senses of smell and taste, be- 
cause here we encounter an external excitant accurately known as regards its 
nature and laws, and this nature and these laws are already more or less famil- 
iar to the contemplation of a large number of readers. What pe-rception of the 
senses is there which takes a deeper and stronger hold upon our inmost being 
than sound in its endless modifications and harmonious combinations, which, in 
its inexhaustible interchange of tones, is capable, if we may be allowed the ex- 
pression, of more delicate and diversified shadings, especially when it reaches 
us in the living form of speech ? Even that small and unhappy number of hu- 
man' beings in whose inelastic natures music " finds no echo, strikes no respon- 
sive string" — even these are the willing slaves of sound, without whose availa- 
bility as speech the intellectual commerce of mankind would indeed be reduced 
to narrow bounds and wretched expedients. If we consider the animal world, 
we recognize "tbe same wonderful force, the same essential office of sound in 
hundreds of instances. The tones produced by the small fibrous tendons of the 
throat thrown into vibration by the breath, whether it be in the unmodulated 



THE SENSE OF HEARING. 143 

neigh of tbe horse or the resonant song of the nightingale — these tones, which, 
ivi some respects analogous to the speech of man, afford means for a certain de- 
gree of intelligent intercourse between animals, are utterances to which we often 
assign no meaning, or, in our narrow prejudice, altogether disregard as the ex- 
pression of a psychical emotion. We are very far from intending to write a 
panegyric on the power of sonnds, or to analyze with poetic circumstantiality 
the susceptibility of sensitive minds to the language of music; there needs but 
brief exposition to secure for the sense of hearing that high interest which natu- 
rally pertains to it. For without the sense of hearing, there is no sound, as with- 
out the sense of sight, no color. 

We may safely assume that at least every educated individual has formed for 
himself some idea, however superficial, of the causes of sound ; has learned, for 
instance, to consider the mighty tones of the organ as proceed ng from the reg- 
ular and tremulous pulsations of the air-columns enclosed in the pipes, which 
pulsations arise when the air compressed in the bellows is directed in a current 
towards the openings of the pipes; that the penetrating tones of the violin re- 
sult from the vibrations communicated to the stretched strings by the bow, as 
similar vibrations are produced in the strings of the piano when struck by the 
hammer ; that the tuning-fork resounds when its elastic branches of steel are 
thrown into vibratory motion by a blow against some resisting surface, &c. 
These visible vibrations, as the source of sound, are too obvious to allow us to 
suppose that there is any one not familiar Avith the fundamental facts of the 
geueivation of sounds. But though our task of exposition as regards the object- 
ive excitant of the nerves of hearing be on that account materially lightened, 
and we may limit ourselves to a discussion of the special relations of certain 
properties and modifications of this excitant to the auditory organ, yet we be- 
lieve we do not err in nnputing to many and perhaps most of the laity * a radical 
misconception in which they are only the inoie foi'tified by the received expla- 
nations on the nature and causes of sounds. This is a misconception so nearly 
unavoidable, so entwined with all our ideas, and, indeed, so much sanctioned by 
rhe language even of science, that it is a difficult matter for physiology to evince 
it to be such and to establish right conceptions in its place. Many will be able 
to surmise what misconception we mean, since we have already had occasion, in 
treating of other senses, to enter the lists against it; but, at the risk of being 
counted tedious, we must here combat it anew, and much fear that when we 
come to consider the sense of sight we shall not be able to spare our readers a 
repetition of our efforts to eradicate it. Every one says, and most believe, that 
the vibrating string of the violin or the pulsating air-column of the organ pipe 
itself resounds ; this is a radical error. When we said above that without the 
sense of hearing there could be no sound, we did not mean that if no ear were 
present an externally existing sound would not be perceived, but, in the strict- 
est sense of the word, that without the ear, without the excitable nerves of 
hearing, no sound at all would exist. The string only vibrates, it sounds not; the 
eound is not conveyed through the air from the string to our ear, and through 
this to our consciousness; the sound originates in ourselves, is the sensation, and 
hence an action of our own soul, which is the result of the vibrations of the 
string, but has nothing whatever in common with them. The string, by its os- 
cillations, throws the adjacent particles of air into a corresponding oscillatory 
movement, this movement is propagated in the form of a wave from particle to 
particle, and when the particles next to the ear receive the iindulatory impulse 
and are set in motion, they communicate that motion to what is called the tym- 
panum of the ear, which is thus in turn made lo vibrate ; the vibrations of the 
membrane just mentioned are now transmitted through certain bones of the ear 

* A term used by some European writers, French as well as German, and seeminjj to im- 
ply tliut the profession of science is regarded, in Founente point of view, as a sort of priest- 
hood-. Being convenient, it is here retained. T. R. 



144 ON THE SENSES. 

to a small reservoir of fluid, in which fluid again the undulatory movement is 
reproduced, and that peciiliar excitation of the extremities of the auditory nerve 
bathed by this fluid is exerted, which hurries to the brain the mysterious cur- 
rent so often spoken of, and there, through the terminal apparatus of the nerve, 
gives rise to the phenomenon recognized as a perception of sound. Thus long 
is the chain of successive movements between their origin in the vibration of 
the string and their termination in the inscrutable process by which the result 
is communicated to the mind. As far as the nerves wex;an analyze these move- 
ments through their entire course : l^p to the tympantim with great exactness, 
inside of the ear with less precision ; but the movement within the nerve and 
its result, the sensation, are two riddles, of which only the first aff'ords some 
glimpses towards a solution, the second is, perhaps for all time, shrouded for us 
in impenetrable obscurity. We are just as little in a position to define the na- 
ture of a sens-ation of hearing, or any intrinsic and essential characteristic per- 
taining to it, as we are in regard to an impression of any of the senses ; the 
utmost we can do is to designate by commonly received names the qualities 
of the sensations generated by certain causes, upon the supposition that the 
sensation itself is known to every one from experience and an idea of its quality 
impressed upon the memory. If we would more exactly describe the sort of 
sensation which we call " high " or " shrill," instead of any distinctive token 
of the sensation itself, we assign the nature and specific properties of the exter- 
nal cause which excites it ; we designate a sound as of certain '' pitch," accord- 
ing to the number of vibrations of the body producing it, or as of a certain tone, 
according to the kind and peculiarities of the object or instrument from which 
it proceeds, because we are, for the most part, incapable of giving an accurate 
physical account of the forms of the undulations on which the modifications of 
the sound are conditioned. The same holds good respecting the "strength" of 
the sensation ; the sensation itself admits not of measurement, but we can meas- 
ure the magnitude of the vibrations or the force of a mechanical arrangement 
for producing them. In general, and in relation to each of these qualities, the 
sound evades every attempt to analyze it, however distinctly the sensation may 
present itself to our consciousness, however vividly we may be able to represent 
it to ourselves without the presence of its exciting objective cause, however ac- 
curately a practiced ear may seize the finest shadings of the height, the tone 
and the strength of different sounds. It was necessary to premise these expla- 
nations in order to reduce what is proposed by of the following exposition to a 
proper standard. It is undoubtedly a legitimate problem for physiology to inves- 
tigate the nature and origin of sounds in the exact sense which we have indicated, 
but, for the solution of this problem, it is wholly unprepared ; the physiology 
of the sense of hearing, of which we shall endeavor to give a brief and intelli- 
gible sketch, can teach us at present nothing further than the ways by which, 
and the forms in which, those motions of matter, which physical science has 
shown to be the cause of the perception of sound, penetrate to the auditory 
nerves ; the acoustical significancy of the complicated apparatus with which 
nature has endowed our organism for receiving the impressions corresponding 
to those motions ; and, lastly, the relation between the qualities of these exter- 
nal movements and the qualities of the sensations as indicated by certain epi- 
thets applied to them. We proceed to our task. 

Deep within the skull, enclosed on each side by the so-called petrous bone, 
the auditory nerve spreads its peripheral extremities, secluded from all immediate 
contact with the air, which brings to us, in propagated waves, the sound pro- 
ducing vibrations of bodies whether near or distant. Of possible ways in which 
pulsations of the surrounding air might be conveyed to the auditory nerve there 
are many ; but one is suited beyond all others to this office, and alone aff'ords, 
by an arrangement pre-eminently adapted to the conveyance of sound, an 
adequate guarantee for the arrival of even very weak undulations at the per- 



THE SENSE OF HEARING 145 

cipipiit apparaHis of the ear Air-wavos may communicate their impulse to all 
bodies, whether solid or fluid, on which they strike, produc ng in these bodies 
vibratory movements mon- or less intense according to the degree of their elas- 
ticity tind other properties. They communicate themselves therefore to the 
external skin of the body, and might be tranr^mitted from this to the underlying 
soft parts; thence again to the bones, and through these b;^ finally propagated 
to the extremities of the nerves o!' hearing But this mode is so impi'rfect that, 
were the air waves to reach their destination only in this way, our perceptions 
of sound would be limited to cases of violent atmospheric concussion. These 
waves are not only transmitted with difficulty and greatly enfeebled in solid 
bodies not rendered elastic through tension, but, if not of such excessive in- 
tensity as to overcome all hindi'ances, their progression, in such bad conductors 
as the soft parts of the body, would gradually fail, like that of water in sand, 
before reaching the hidden recesses of the nerves. It would be otherwise, in- 
deed, if we lived in water instead of air. The waves of sound propagated in 
water are much more easily transmitted to solid bodies, and must, in fact, pass 
through the corporeil integument of all aquatic animals endowed with the sense 
of hearing. It would also be quite otherwise if the vibrations of sound-producing 
bodies were conveyed to us through the medium of solid substances instead of 
the air. If we stop our eai'S closely, so as to obstruct iu a great degree the 
passage, and thus oppose to the air-waves a resistance like that which would 
proceed from a corporeal surface similarly interposed, we shall hear no sound 
from a tuning-fork thrown into vibration at some little distance, even when the 
force of the undulations is increased by placing it on a resonant support. On 
the other hand, if we apply the vibrating tuning-fork to one of our teeth, we 
hear the sound in its full intensity, as probably most of our readers have ex- 
perienced. The reason of this is clear : while in the former case the vibrations 
communicated by the tuning-fork to the air lose so much of their force by after- 
wards sti'iking against a badly conducting surface as to be unable to reach the 
sensorium, in the latter, being communicated immediately to the tooth, they 
are readily transmitted by this to the surrounding elastic solids and bones of the 
head, by which last they are directly conveyed to the nerves of hearing. This 
transmission of sound through the. solids and bones of the head even surpasses, 
under certain conditions, that which takes place in the ordinary manner by air- 
waves entering the ear, but only in the case when the distance between the ear 
and the vibrating object exceeds a certain magnitude, not, as some physiologists 
assert, under all circumstances. We hear a vibrating tuning-fork more forcibly 
if applied to the teeth than if held in the air at the distance of a yard from the 
ear, but the result is different if the instrument be held immediately before the 
entrance of the ear, as is strikingly shown by the following very simple and 
easily repeated experiment: If, after striking the tuning-f.>rk, we bring it into 
contact with one of the incisors and wait until the sound, growing constantly 
weaker, is no longer perceptible, we shall hear it again if we remove the instru- 
ment from the tooth and hold it close beside the ear. But, apart from this, it is 
apparent that the transmission of vibrations through the bones of the head to 
the auditory nerve, would, of necessity, labor under so many embarrassments 
and be so limited in its employment, that, were this the only instrumentality 
through which we received the sensations of sound, our sense of hearing would 
lose ail its importance as a means of intercourse between the mind and the out- 
ward world. Let us reflect how seldom it would be practicable, and in these 
rare cases how awkward, if we were obliged to place ourselves in immediate 
connection with any vibrating body by means of some solid conductor, a metallic 
rod or other ; if, in order to convey the sounds of a violin, or the humm voice, 
to our auditory nerve, a conducting apparatus must first be interposed between, 
the sounding-board of the one or organs of the other and the solid parts of our 
own cranium. That we are almost exclusively lunited to the air waves as a 
10 s G6 



146 ■ ON THE SENSES. 

conducting vehicle between distant sounds and the nerve needs no special proof; 
wherefore we conclude that, of all conceivable passages by which sound-pro- 
ducing vibrations penetrate to the sensorium, that alone deserves physiological 
consideration through which undulations of slight intensity, or proceeding from 
distant objects, attain with facility the nerve of hearing. 

It is this one passage, therefore — the passage through the outer ear or auricle, 
the auditory canal, the tympanum, the ossicles or small movable bones, the laby- 
rinth, both osseous and membranous — to which we shall turn our special attention, 
while M'e accompany the vibratory movement communicated by the au--waves 
through all these several stations in the order in which we have named them. 
We trust that it may be in our power to convey a clear comprehension of the 
apparatus, in part so greatly complicated, which the vibrations have thus to 
traverse. In beginning, however, we are somewhat embarrassed by the doubt 
as to how far we may venture to presume our readers already acquainted with 
the nature and laws of those periodic movements outside of our organs of hear- 
ing, designated as vibrations and waves — an embarrassment which recurs in a 
different form with the popular exposition of each of our physiological divisions, 
since physiology in all its parts presupposes a knowledge of physics and chem- 
istry as its basis. We have before expressed our belief that, of all departments 
of physics, acoustics is that respecting which some degree of information is most 
widel}' diffused ; in declining, therefore, the long digression which any adequate 
acoustical introduction would render necessary, and confining ourselves to the 
physiological view of our subject, we shall hope to be excused if Ave refer any 
reader who may happen to be little familiarized with it to some popular treatise 
for the doctrine of sounds. For the sake of simplicity and clearness in our state- 
ment, we shall substitute, in place of an analysis of all possible sources of sound, 
.a single concrete example of a string vibrating under conditions which give rise 
to the ixndulations whose destination in the organ of hearing it is our purpose to 
follow. We take for this purpose a stretched string, supposed to be at a distance 
■of some feet from the ear and of such a degree of tension that, when made to 
vibrate by a smart blow, it executes in a second four hundred entire vibrations — 
that is to say, four hundred forward and as many backward movements, with a 
•constantly diminishing magnitude of the path described by its several constituent 
particles, until it returns to a state of rest. In such a string, the movement of 
the individual particles lying behind one another in the direction of its length is 
of very different magnitude ; those at either end, a l>, by which the string is 
pj J fixed, are entirely motionless ; those next to them towards the middle 
have a certain, but very small movement, being restrained by their 
fixed neighbors, and the amount of movement increases as the middle 
of the string is approached, until the maximum of movement is reached 
in the particle c situated midway between a and h. If, therefore, we 
set the string in vibration by pulling it by the middle as far as c' and 
then releasing it, it will oscillate between the two limitary positions 
indicated by the dotted lines a c' b and a c" h and its position of 
equilibrium a c h, which it passes at each successive oscillation. The 
curvature which the figure presents on both sides of the central line 
is the necessary result of the differences in the movement of the par- 
ticles as just described. With the continuance of the oscillations, the 
number occurring in a second of time does not change, depending a,s 
this number does only on the length and tension of the string ; but, 
it is otherwise with the magnitude of the oscillations; as these pro- 
ceed, the particle c deviates less and less from the position which it 
occupied when at rest, the curvature becomes constantly weaker, and 
the string finally forms a right line, as before the impulse. Did there 
exist now no material medium between the string and our ear, were 
this space wholly devoid of air, the vibrations of the string would 



wm^mwjA 


• 


o. 




\ 
\ 

\ 

1 



THE SENSE OF HEARING. 147 

have no relation to our auditory organ, could yield no sound ; we should 
see, but not hear them. The sound, indeed, as we before remarked, pro- 
ceeds not as such from the string, but is produced indirectly by the string 
through the action of its vibrations upon the organism of the ear ; and for this 
mediate or indirect action there is needed a material medium with movable 
particles, a conductor capable of propagating the vibrations of the string by 
corresponding movements of its own constituent parts. How this propagation 
is effected by the air is easily shown. We must conceive the air, surrounding 
the string and filling the space between that and our ear, to be composed of in- 
finitely small particles movable among one another, and we will suppose the ear 
to be placed on the side next to c'. If the string, now, be supposed to oscillate 
from the position a c" b towards a c' h, it drives before it the particles of air next 
to it; it is evident, too, that, were the air a firm and cohesive body, the string 
could not execute its movement unless it propelled in a mass the whole of the 
air lying in its passage. But as the air is an elastic compressible body, the string, 
instead of driving before it at once the entire mass, presses upon and condenses 
only the parts immediately next to it, these in turn press upon the neighboring 
parts, and thus the impulse is progressively propagated from one portion of air 
to another. When the string has arrived at its limitary position a c' h, the dis- 
placement of successive portions of air and the compression which attends it 
have been propagated to a certain distance, so that the air to that extent is in a 
compressed state, forming a tvave of condensation. Did the string remain mo- 
tionless ai » c' h, then, while the movement of propagation was still continued 
among the particles at the further end of the wave, those nearest to the stiing 
would come to a state of rest, then the next, and so on, till finally all the particles 
in the first wave would cease to move, the last of them precisely at the moment 
when the condensation on the further side has reached the limit to which it was 
carried during tlie forward movement of the string — that is to say, when the 
wave of condensation has reached its full length. But the string stops not at 
its greatest convexity; it springs back by virtue of its elasticity, and again 
passing the line of equilibrium, forms just such a curvature as before, occupying 
the second limitary position a c" b During this recoil there occurs in the 
stratum of air lying to the left of the string, and which had been condensed by 
its forward movement, the opposite condition of rarefaction, because a void space 
is left behind the returning string which the air must occupy. The several 
particles of air follow the string, first, those immediately contiguous to it, then 
in succession those more remote, so that, as is readily seen, the direction of the 
movement which the particles now execute is the opposite of that Avhicii had 
taken place on the advance of the string, while the direction in which this move- 
ment is propagated from particle to particle is the same. When the string has 
reached the position a c" b, the propagated displacement of the particles and the 
rarefaction attending it have extended through a certain tract on the same side 
with the previous condensation; the air within this tract is in a rarefied state, 
forming a wave of rarefaction, which, succeeding the wave of condensation, ad- 
vances, like that, from space to space, and to the same distance. In the mean 
time, the string again springs forward, again compresses the particles of air 
before it, and in this way the wave of rarefaction is replaced by a new wave of 
condensation. Thus these waves proceed from the string to the ear in constant 
succession and regular interchange, alternating as often in a definite time as the 
string vibrates from side to side; and a particular particle of air, whatever its 
distance from the string, continues, as long as the string vibrates, to oscillate 
forward and backward according as it happens to be in a wave of condensation 
or one of rarefaction. We shall only add that the velocity with which the dis- 
placement of the particles of air is propagated always remains the same, no 
matter how great the number of the vibrations of the string, or how wide its ex- 
cursions ; and that the magnitude of the displacement of each several particle 



148 ON THE SENSES. '^ 

depends on two circumstances : first, on the width of those excursions ; and 
secondly, on the distance of the particle from the string. 

The wider the vibrations of the string or the departure of c' and c" from c, so 
much greater, of course, is the displacement of the nearest particles of air, and 
consequently of those which follow in succession. As regards the diminution 
of the displacement in proportion to the distance from the string, an example 
drawn from a different quarter will afford a simple and intelligible illustration. 
If a stone be thrown into the water, there arises a circular wave, which con- 
tinues to recede on all sides from the centre of disturbance, andin this wave the 
elevation and depression follow one another in regular succession, like the con- 
densation and rarefaction in the sound-producing waves of the air ; but whereas, 
in the immediate neighborhood of the place where the stone fell, the elevations 
are high, the depressions deep, the former, though the width of the wave remains 
unchanged, lose their height, the latter their depth as they recede, until both 
are at length lost in the level expanse. Such is the case, too, with the air- waves ; 
the magnitude of the displacement of the several particles diminishes in definite 
proportion with the increasing distance from the source of the sound, and at a 
certain distance, which is greater as the movement nearest the source, or, in the 
present case, the excursion of the string is more considerable, the displacement 
wholly ceases. If our oar be beyond this limit, it is not reached by the air- 
wave, and can therefore not perceive the vibrations of the string as sound ; 
probably, indeed, the perceptibility of the vibrations ceases within that limit, 
for it is little likely that, when the movement of the particles of air has become 
very slight, it should any longer have sufiicient intensity to excite the terminal 
apparatus of the organ of hearing. At the distance of a few feet supposed, in 
our example, to intervene between the ear and the string, even weak vibrations 
reach the ear with sufficient intensity, the particles of air next the organ driven 
at the assumed rate of 400 forward and 400 backward oscillations in a second, 
forming, with the reqxiisite distinctness, the alternating waves of condensation 
and rarefaction. Let lis now inquire the operation and destiny of these waves 
in the organ itself. 

The part of the ear which is first struck by the air-wave is the auricle or 
pinna, constituting the external organ, in regard to whose structure and arrange- 
ment every one may easily satisfy himself. This external portion presents a 
sort of hollow shell with several eminences and channel-like depressions, the: 
base of the shell containing a funnel-shaped cavity which opens immediately 
into the inner passages of the organ. In the lower animals the whole ear has, 
for the most part, more of the funnel, or, at least, spoon-shape, and is in general 
much more movable than in man. The human ear is, however, by no means 
immovable; the reader will scarcely fail to have met, in the course of his life, 
■ with some wonder-worker, who, with more or less skill, pretends to the power 
of 'wagging his ears. This egregious accomplishment, be it known, is cheap ; 
the ear of every one is provided Avith several muscles, which proceed in different 
directions from its base to the surface of the skull, and which, by their contrac- 
tion, may change the position of the auricle ; to these muscles are distributed 
nerves, whose relations to the brain and the will are like those of the innume- 
rable other nerves, and which are capable, therefore, of communicating motion 
to the muscles. But just as the deaf-mute possesses the same muscles and the 
same nerves of volition with him who articulates, and has only not learned to 
use them because for him the natural instructor, the sense of hearing, is deficient, 
so it is no absence of the original power but a neglect to use the muscles of the 
ear in early life, which, in most men, leaves that member incapable of voluntary 
motion. It may sound strangely, but still is true, that for tliis neglect the blame 
lies in the tasteless as well as injudicious custom of muffling the heads of infants 
in caps, by which the ears are. so long kept immovably boimd to the head, and 
precisely at the time when the soul is getting acquainted with its bodily machine, 



THE SENSE OF HEARING 149 

and learning to use it. Crying, speaking, handling, the child learns, not exp(;ri- 
mentally and with any purpose of the will, by setting in motion the muscles of 
the throat and thorax, the arm and the hand, to try the effect and benefit which 
may result. The soul never arrives at a direct perception of these special mem- 
bers, not to say that the knowledge of their existence and of the means of setting 
them in motion would be the prerequisite incitement to their use. That primary 
incitement consists much more in the activity of the muscles themselves ; the 
child cries at first mechanically — that is to say, its vocal muscles are thrown 
into action in a reflex w^ay, the muscular irritation being the effect of the irrita- 
tion of the nerves of sensation in the brain produced by an external object. 
With this activity is connected a determinate, and for every muscle a specific 
feeling, a so-called muscular feeling, of which the child becomes conscious, as it 
does at the same time of the sensation of sound which is the result of the activity 
of the vocal njuscles. Thus the child first learns that this specific muscular 
feeling always coincides with that sensation of sound, or, again, that with the 
muscular feeling which the movement of the arm produces, is associated a sen- 
sation of pressure when the limb encounters an external object, which object 
may at the same time give rise to a visual sensation, &c. The education of the 
soul thus proceeds step by step, and in this way it very gradually succeeds in 
obtaining an indelible idea of all possible combinations of the muscular feelings, 
and in understanding their signification from the consequences experienced, so 
that it knows exactly what sort and degree of effort the will must make, in order 
to call forth any definite muscular feeling, and attain the results known to be 
associated with it. The same circuitous process would lead to the conscious use 
of the muscles of the ear if their unconscious reflex activity were at first possi- 
ble, for this would be our instructor by means of the associated muscular feeling 
and the knowledge of its consequences. Respecting this, however, it is enough 
to say that the detriment occasioned by the defect of motion is not great, since 
the human head is in the highest degree movable in all directions, and hence we 
can well dispense with any movement of the eai'S. The purposes connected 
with a change of position of the ears will presently be noticed. 

If we ask now what function the outer ear fulfils, in what acoustical relation 
it stands to the air-wave, the common answer is at hand : to intercept and r<i- 
ceive it; but this is by no means an exhaustive explanation. It is true, indeed, 
that this member is an auxiliary but not an altogether indispensable part of the 
auditory apparatus, since it is well known that, where it is wanting, not only 
does the perception of sound exist, but that often it is not sensibly weakened 
or affected. The same is the case if the external ear be occluded by filling its 
cavity with some pulpy inelastic substance, while the auditory canal, and that 
alone, is kept open for the transmission of sound by the insertion of a small 
tube. But although the auricle is not indispensable, it is not in vain that it oc- 
cupies its place. Its design may be sought in a two-fold relation to the sound- 
producing waves of the air: these may rebound against it, as the light is re- 
flected from a mirror, and by means of its different eminences and depressions 
be thrown in greater quantity into the interior passages ; or it may serve as a 
sort of sounding-board, or, more correctly, as the bridge of a violin — that is to 
say, i-eceiving the wave of sound and, being a rigid, elastic, outstretched carti- 
lage, it may itself be throwar into vibration, and through the walls of the auditory 
canal communicate that vibration to the tympanum, as the bridge of the violin 
transmits. the vibrations of the strings to the sounding-board. In both cases 
the advantage w^onld consist in economizing a part of the air-wave which would 
otherwise be lost. It was usual, formerly, to seek in the action first mentioned, 
the reflection, namely, of the wave into the auditory passage, the service of the 
outer ear. By more careful consideration, however, of the directions in which, 
according to physical laws, waves of sound, striking in different lines upon its 
differently shaped parts, must be reflected, the auricle is shown to be very little 



150 ON THE SENSES 

fitted for this purpose, since it gives no direction to the incident waves by wMcb 
any important portion of them can be thrown into the auditory channel. If we 
would convert the auricle lato a reflector, we must resort to a very usual means 
of overcoming any difficulty o£ hearing by bending forwai'd its free cartilage 
with the hand, while at the same time the hollow palm of the latter is extended 
to increase the capacity of the cavity. In this way the auricle with the band 
acts as an ear-trumpet in collecting the waves of sound and throwing them thus 
condensed into the ear. In its usual posture, on the other hand, the chief ser- 
vice of the auricle is to be sought in the second of the above-named relations : 
on the impact of the air-waves, it is itself fitted to take up the vibrations and 
convey them through the intermediate structures to the tympanum. The com- 
municated vibrations will, from physical laws, be stronger in proportion, as the 
direction in which the air-waves strike is more perpendicular, but as the auricle 
is not a level surface, and, at different points, is struck by the same air-wave in 
different directions, it is more exact to say that its conducting capacity will be 
greater, the larger the portion of its surface opposed perpendicularly to the air- 
wave. If the source of the sound is in front of us, so that the waves are di- 
rected perpendicularly towards the face, they will evidently strike the right and 
left ear under equal conditions. In this case it is plain that the ears are not in 
the most favorable position for the entry of the air- wave into the auditory pas- 
sages, since, on each side, these cross the direction of the wave at right angles, 
and there is, besides, a projecting lobe in front which forms a sort of screen to 
the entrance ; still the auricles are not unfavorably situated as regards the direc- 
tion of the waves, since a large portion of their cavity is turned almost perpen- 
dicularly to that direction, at least in persons whose ears stand out somewhat 
from the head and do not form too small an angle with its side-walls. In this 
way we may account for the conclusion experimentally arrived at by one of the 
older physiologists, that the perception of sounds is most distinct if the auricle 
forms an angle of 40"^ with the lateral surface of the head; the most favorable 
angle for all directions of sound there are no means of determining. If the 
source of sound, instead of being before, is on one side of us and in the direct 
prolongation of one or other of the ear-passages, the conditions are of course 
different. The ear of the corresponding side has then evidently the advantage, 
inasmuch as the entrance of the wave into the auditory canal is here direct, 
while on the averted side it is circuitous ; nor does the auricle, in this case, pre- 
sent itself in a wholly disadvantageous position to the undulations, since no in- 
considerable part of its surface, though a different one from the former, is now 
more or less perpendicular to their direction. That, on the whole, the conditions 
for the access of the waves are more favorable when they strike the ear laterally 
rather than directly in front, is evinced by the fact that, in earnest listening, we 
unconsciously turn the head laterally, so as to bring the axis of one of the 
auditory canals into the direction of the sound. The above is all that can be 
said respecting the significancy of the outermost structure of the organ of hear- 
ing, and is little enough,. if we consider how freely it lies open to observation 
and the exact knowledge we possess of the nature of the undulations. 

The next part to be traversed by the sound-producing air- wave is the auditory 
canal ffneatus auditorius externus) which leads from the bottom of the concha 
or cavity of the external ear to the seat of the finer apparatus of the organ. 
This canal, which is about an inch long, is not straight, but somewhat bent, nor 
is it everywhere of equal width ; its walls are covered with the viscous secre- 
tion called ear-wax, and, especially at the entrance, are overgrown with small 
hairs. The function of this part, in a general point of view, is clear, though 
some obscurity rests upon certain special details — that is to say, we know that 
this external meatus, partly through the included air-column, partly through its 
own elastic environment, conducts the waves of sound to the interior of the 
organ ; that on account of its curvature and varying width the waves must, iu 



THE SENSE OF HEARING. 



151 



their passage, strike against and rebound from its walls, so that none can reach 
the tympanum in a quite direct and unbroken line ; further, we may conjecture 
that this reflection of the air-waves from the walls gives tliera additional force, 
on the same principle that the rebound from a vaulted surface is known to 
strengthen sounds; but we are not in a position to determine the course of each 
wave in this tube with so much precision as physics might desire. The hairs 
at the entrance are an important protection against the intrusion of foreign 
bodies, especially particles of dust, which, at least to a certain extent, is thereby 
prevented. Respecting the true use of the ear-wax there is still a question; 
the covering of the Avails with a glutinous substance would be judged a priori 
to be detrimental to the conducting capacity of the tube, as too great a secre- 
tion and accumulation of it are in fact found to be. A recital of the conjectures 
which have been formed on this subject may well be spared. 

We come now to a very important part of the apparatus for conveying sound, 
the tymjmnum, and its connection with the reservoir of the nerves by means of 
the ossicles of the tympanum, a chain of small movable bones. In order to give 
the reader a correct idea of this mechanism, it is indispensable to convey as 
clear a conception as possible of the anatomical arrangement, form, position, and 
adjustment of its several parts ; an undertaking which would be easy had we 
before us, for the purposes of demonstration, either preparations from nature or 
artificial models, but which presents no inconsiderable difficulty when it is to be 
accomplished by means of description and mere delineations. 

The tympanum is a delicate membrane, which is stretched like the head of a 
drum over tlie inner extremity of the auditory canal, and forms a wall of separa- 
tion between that passage and a small interior cavity, known as the cavitij of 
the tympanum. This membrane is not placed perpendicularly, but obliquely, 
in such manner that its exterior surface next the canal looks obliquely down- 
ward, and at the same time somewhat backward, to the floor of the canal, while 
the interior surface, turned towards the tympanic cavity, looks upward and some- 
what forward. The auditory canal is thus obliquely cut off at its inner extremity, 
its floor or lower wall being longer than its roof or upper wall, the hinder wall 
somewhat longer than the front one, the cavity of the tympanum lies more above 
than behind that membrane. The annexed 
figure represents the outer ear 0, the au- 
ditory canal G, and tympanum T, of the 
right side, seen directly in front. In order 
to place the membrane of the tympanum 
in open view, the ossicles connected with 
it are left out, and for the same reason the 
outline of the cavity is not given. But 
the membrane of the tympanum forms not 
a plane surface. It is arched in the di- 
rection of the cavity, so that its outer sur- 
face is concave, its inner convex, while 
between the two layers of which it is com- 
posed the handle of the malleus, a small 
bone, to be presently described, descends 
from the upper ed^e as far down as the 
middle, where it is farmly attached, and, by its position, gives to the whole mem- 
brane the curvature which has been just mentioned. If we imagine a stick 
firmly affixed to the centre of a drum-head, while the other end projects over 
the rim, and that a force is applied to this outer and movable end, so that the 
skin of the drum is at once stretched and pressed inward, we shall obtain some 
idea of the arrangement of the malleus and the tympanum. 

Let us examine now the action of the sound-producing undulations, the be- 
fore-described waves of condensation and rarefaction on the membrane in ques- 




152 ON THE SENSES. 

tioD. It is apparent that this will be thrown into vibration, ai il that its vibra- 
tions will exactly accord in intensity and number with those (f the air- waves, 
and mediately also with those of the body by which the latter are set in motion. 
Each wave of condensation, the several particles of which are pressing forward 
in the direction of the wave, will communicate to the particles of the tympanum 
the same movement, and therefore increase its inward curvature, and at the same 
time its tension ; and each wave of rarefaction — the direction of the pai'ticles 
being now opposed to the general movement of the wave and away from the 
tympanum — draws the latter, in a certain measure, after it, and the vaulted mem- 
brane is correspondingly flattened towards the external air passages. It has 
been a subject of controversy, in a physiological point of view, whether the 
movement impressed on the tympanum liy the waves of sound, be, like that of 
the string before described, a normal, vibratory movement, or an undulatory 
one like that produced by alternate impulsion and retrogression in any fluid, as, 
for instance, the air. Without entering further into this question, the discussion 
of which would involve an analytical inquiry into the doctrine of undulations, 
we shall only remark that, in our own opinion, the tympanum of the ear can, 
under no circumstances, execute any other movement than vibrations of the 
former order. If we deliver a smart blow on the head of a real drum it is ev 
ident that the elastic membrane will be driven inward in a convex or dome- 
shaped curve, since here, as in the string, the middle particles are most movable ; 
those lying nearer to the rim are less so, while those immediately at the rim, 
over which the skin is stretched, are immovable, like the points at which the 
string is attached. By thus bending inwards, the tension of the membrane is 
necessarily increased, wherefore the inward bending can only proceed to the 
point at "which the elastic force of the increasing tension finds itself in equi- 
librium with the force which has been applied from without ; when the impulse 
of the latter gives way the elastic force drives the membrane back, as it does 
the thread, not to its original plane, but with such velocity that it passes that 
line and is now curved outwardly, until again arrested by the increasing ten- 
sion and again driven inwardly. Thus the membrane with which the drum 
is covered continues to oscillate inwards and outwards with diminishing curva- 
tures, until the whole movement subsides to rest. Now, the membranous tym- 
panum of the ear is placed under precisely similar conditions, and must there- 
fore execute the same sort of vibrations ; its particles are not at all movable in 
an equal degree, so that each, as is the case with the particles of the air, can, in 
like degree, follow the impulse of the air-wave, the movement of each being ex- 
clusively dependent on the direction and force of the impelling particles of that 
wave ; on the contrary, in consequence of the adhesion of the.membrane through- 
out its who'e circuit to the walls of the auditory canal, the particles next to the 
adherent edge are, as in the artificial drum-head, immovable ; those at the centre 
the most movable j the intermediate, movable in a progressive ratio from the 
periphery to the centre. The magnitude of the movement of each particle depends, 
therefore, not merely on the impulsive force of the air- waves, but also on its po- 
sition and consequent mobility. If we represent to ourselves an air-wave of 
condensation as striking perpendicularly upon the tympanum and simultaneously 
exerting an equal force upon every particle of the membrane, it is evident, from 
the diiferent degree of resistance opposed by the several particles — a resistance 
which increases according to the distance of each particle from the centre — that 
the result of the impulse will be a convex flexion of the membrane towards the 
interior cavity. Upon the same principle the succeeding wave of rarefaction 
will be followed by a similar flexion in the opposite direction. If no wave of 
rarefaction followed the wave of condensation, the tympanum, when the impulse 
of the latter was withdrawn, would still spring back through its own elasticity, 
ind undergo, like the drum skin, after one blow, a series of alternating vibrations 
iround its line of equilibrium, the velocity of which would depend alone on the 



THE SENSE OF HEAKING 153 

size and tension of the membrane. But witli alternate waves of conden^^ation 
and rarefaction, the tympanum vibrates only under their influence, and as these 
vibrations will be exactly synchronous with those of the string, which, in our 
previous example, we supposed to be the source of sound, their number in a 
second of time will, in like manner, be four hundred inwards and four hundred 
outwards. The form of the vibrations remains the same ; whether the magni- 
tude of the displacements of the particles of air in contact with the tympanum 
be great or small, nothing changes with that magnitude but the depth of the re- 
sulting curvatures. If the air-wave does not strike the whole surfiice of the 
tympanum perpendicularly and at the same time, but impinges obliquely by 
striking first a part near the edgCi a convex curvature ensues, but its form will 
be somewhat different. Though this be commonly the case on account of the 
oblique position of the tympanum to the auditory canal, we will not enter into 
a closer analysis of the different forms of curvature which would result from this 
circumstance, since nothing is thereby essentially changed, and the following 
explanations will be rendered more generally intelligible by being made in ref- 
erence only to the simplest form of vibrations. 

If we ask now to what end a tense and elastic membrane is interposed in the 
passage of the waves of sound, why these are not propagated as air-waves to 
the perceptive apparatus of the auditory nerves, the answer is simply as follows : 
The ends of these nerves are suspended in a fluid, and for obvious reasons must 
be so ; hence the question first concerns the communication of the waves to this 
fluid. Did the air- wave immediately strike the fluid the transmitted impressioii 
would be extremely feeble, so that weak or remote vibrations, which, under the 
existing arrangement we hear distinctly, would be no longer perceptible. Be- 
sides, it is not easy to see how such a direct transmission of the waves of sound 
from the air to the fluid could be effected, since a free surface accessible to the 
external air would be incompatible with the safety of the tender nerves. It is 
imperative, therefore, that the fluid be enclosed within solid walls ; but walls of 
osseous structure take up the vibrations of air with as much difficulty as fluids, 
and would transmit them in the same weakened condition ; hence there was 
needed some other and suitable medium between the air and the aqueous secre- 
tion. Now this purpose is fulfilled in the most perfect manner by the system 
of small bones appertaining to the tympanum. Air-waves are with difficulty 
transmitted immediately to solid bodies, but easily and with intensity to stretched 
membrane ; and when, in this way, the membrane has been thrown into oscil- 
latory movements, as above described, these movements are readily communi- 
cable to solid bodies — a fact of which every one may satisfy himself by the fol- 
lowing simple experiments : Over the opening of a glass or a tube let a dry 
membrane be stretched, whether it be of bladder, leather, or mere paper, and let 
this membrane be strewn with fine sand ; if a tuning fork, which has been made 
to vibrate by a strong blow, be held at a little distance above the membrane, 
the lively vibrations into which the membrane is thrown by the air waves pro- 
ceeding from the fork will be manifested by a saltatory movement of the grains 
of sand as they continue to bound upwards and fall again on the vibrating sui'- 
face. To show the fiicility wnth which vibrations of the membrane are trans- 
mitted to solid bodies, let a metallic ring, such, for instance, as is used for keys, 
be clasped round with the thumb and forefinger of the left hand, while, with the 
right a strongly vibrating tuning fork is held close above it. With the simple 
ring not the slightest motion will be felt, but if a membrane be previously 
stretched upon it and the experiment be repeated in the same way, the ring will 
be felt to vibrate in the most sensible manner as long as the vibrating fork con- 
tinues in its vicinity. 

We now know how the air- waves are received by the membrane of the 
tympanum ; let us next see how this membrane communicates its vibrations to 
the chain of small bones behind it, and in what way these in turn set in undu- 



154 



ON THE SENSES 



latory motion the fluid contained in the so-called labyrinth. It is no very easy 
matter to make the structure, position and connection? of the system of small 
bony levers interposed between the tympanum and the labyrinth perfectly clear; 
we shall endeavor first to exhibit the priuciple of the arrangement by means of 
some illustrative delineations : Fig. 3 represents the simplified form of the appa- 
ratus seen in perspective ; Fig. 4, an ideal vertical section thereof. A little rod 
of some length a h, which bears at its upper extremity a knob h, is by its lower 

half a c attached to the stretched 
^^* ' membrane of the tympanum T r, 

in such manner that it reaches 
from the upper edge directly to 
the middle of that membrane, thas 
dividing the upper half of it into 
two equal lateral portions, while 
the upper half of the rod with the 
knob projects freely into the cav- 
ity of the tympanum. Through 
the middle c of the rod, and cross- 
ing it at right angles, (in Fig. 4 
supposed to be perpendicular to 
the surface of the paper,) passes 
a solid transverse rod d e, both 
ends of which are so secured by 
ligaments to the bony wall of the 
cavity near the border of the tympanum, that this 
transverse rod can turn upon its own longitudinal 
axis, but not be otherwise displaced. We may 
imagine both ends surrounded by annular liga- 
ments which are tightly fastened to the wall of 
the cavity. The lower end a of the longer rod 
bears a short arm af, with which it forms a right 
angle, and which is perpendicular to the surface 
of the membrane of the tympanum. The free 
endy of this arm bears finally a stirrup-shaped ap- 
pendage g, firmly articulated with it, whose foot- 
plate is fitted like the piston of a syringe into an oval window-like opening of 
the reservoir L, (the labyrinth,) containing a fluid; with the edges of this reser- 
voir the appendage g is united by a membranous and very elastic border. The 
action of the vibrations of the tympanic membrane on this apparatus must neces- 
sarily be as follows : If the membrane be driven inwards by a wave of conden- 
sation so that its curvature, as shown in Fig. 4, is increased and its centre a be 
thus brought nearer to the reservoir L, the rod a b must follow the movement 
and turn around the transverse rod d e (which serves as its axis of revolution) 
in such manner that the part c a below the fulcrum c moves inwards and up- 
wards with the tympanum, while the upper part c b, projecting into the cavity, 
moves outwards and downwards, as is indicated by the directions of the arrows 
in Fig. 4. The rod af, attached rectangularly to the former, will thus be lifted 
up in the direction of the arrow proceeding from a, whereby its stirrup-like ap- 
pendage g will be thrust deeper into the reservoir, and the elastic border by 
which it is united to the edge of the opening will undergo extension. The fluid 
in L receives this external pressure and is propelled before it. Were the walls 
of this reservoir rigid and unyielding throughout its whole circuit the fluid could 
not give way, and, since a fluid is compressible only by strong force, while that 
of the air- wave is relatively small, the resistance thus opposed would render the 
entrance of the appendage impossible, and mediately also the whole movement 
of the apparatus and the tympanum. In order, therefore, that the external 




THE SENSE OF HEARING. 



155 



action may take effect, the reservoir is provided with a second opening h, which 
is closed with an ehistic membi'one, {membrana tympani secondaria.) In pro- 
portion as the stirrup-plate is pressed deeper into its opening, the yielding fluid 
drives the membrane 7i before it, bending and stretching it outwards. We shall 
see hereafter that, in nature, this reservoir of fluid consists of a sac-shaped space 
in which is the opening for the stirrup or stapes, and of a long spirally convolved 
canal ; the other opening h lies at the extreme end of this canal, so that the 
movement of the yielding fluid, propagated from particle to particle, must tra- 
verse the whole canal before it arrives at the elastic membrane. This extensive 
circuit is of the utmost importance, because the greatest part of the excitable 
nerves have their extremities within this canal, by all of which extremities there- 
fore the liquid waves must pass before they reach the membrane. If the con- 
densed wave, whose effect we have been considering, is succeeded by a rarified 
wave, all the movements will of course be reversed. The tympanum recoils and 
oscillates outwards, thus turning the rod a b on the axis d so that the lower por- 
tion a c moves outwards with the tympanum while its upper portion c b moves 
inwards ; the portion c a draws a f after it, and this in turn draws the stirrup 
g in a corresponding degree out of the opening of the reservoir L ; the fluid pur- 
sues the withdrawing stirrup-plate and the membrane h becomes level or may 
even be drawn inwards. If condensed and rarified air-waves now follow one 
another in rapid succession, as in the case of our vibrating string, the little lever 
a h turns with equal velocity on its axis and moves the foot plate of the stirrup 
in its opening up and down, causing in the reservoir advancing and retreating 
waves, equal in number to the vibrations of the sound-producing object. 

After this general representation of the scheme and action of the mechanism, , 
it will not be difficult to comprehend that of the rather complex apparatus of 
the ossicles of the tympanum in its actual state. This apparatus consists of 
three members connected with one another — three small, peculiarly shaped 
bones — the malleus, the incus, and the stapes. The malleus and incus (hammer 
and anvil) together correspond to the system of levers a b, d e, and a f oi our 
scheme, the stapes to our stirrup, which is the meaning of its Latin name. We 
will first consider the form of the several bones. The 
malleus consists, as is shown by the annexed figure, of 
a handle a b and of a spherical head c at the upper end. 
Beneath this head is found on one side a grooved de- 
pression running obliquely around the neck from above 
downwards, into which a corresponding surfoce of the 
incus is fitted ; on the other side proceeds from about 
the middle of the bone a long and slender outgrowth or 
projection e f, running to a point, corresponding to the 
portion d c of the transverse axis d e in the previous 
figure. The incus much resembles a bicuspid t lOth with 
widely separated roots. It consists of a short, thick 
body a, whose upper surface b is of an oval shape and 
is so channelled out as to be concave in a longitudinal and con- 
vex in a transverse direction, fitting acciu-ately into the depression 
at the neck of the malleus. From the body a proceed, nearly at 
a right angle with one another, two processes, one short and thick, 
c, the other, d, long and somewhat bent towards its extremity, on 
\e which it bears a small lens-shaped bone e. With this terminal 
bone of the incus articulates the head of the stapes, 
whose form corresponds to its name ; it consists of a 
head, two divergent branches unequally bowed, a b, and 
a flattened oval-shaped plate c which forms the base or 
foot of the stirrup. The position, ligature, and connec- 
tion of these bones with each other, the tympanum and 



Fig. 5. 







156 ON THE SENSES. 

the labyrinth, is as follows : If we imagine a human head vertically divided in 
the middle from front to rear, and from the right half all the parts, both solid 
and soft, to be removed until we arrive at the cavity of the tympanum and thus 
bring to view from within the apparatus of the right ear with the membrane of 
the tympanum, the appearances presented to us, when we look a little obliquely 

from above, will be those represented in the ac- 
^^' ' companying figure. T r indicates the tympa- 

num, H the malleus, A the incus, S t the stapes. 
The handle of the malleus is firmly united to 
the membrane of the tympanum, being inserted 
between the two soft layers of which the latter 
, consists and extending from the upper border 
to the centre, so that, like the rod a c in the 
schematistic figure, it must necessarily follow 
the movements of the membrane. The neck 
and the heavy spherical head of the malleus 
project freely over the border of the membrane 
into the cavity of the tympanum ; the long pro- 
jection, on the other hand, runs, at the height of 
the upper border of the tympanum, forward, 
and is here tightly fastened, by one of the short, 
elastic ligaments which spring from its point, 
to the wall of the cavity. The neck of the malleus articulates with the summit 
of the incus, the two surfaces being reciprocally adapted to one another, and 
their edges secured by a capsular ligament which permits but slight displace- 
ments. Through this arrangement the short, thick process of the incus is in 
such a position as to form a right line with the long projection of the malleus, 
being directed transversely backward as the former forward, and is fastened to 
the hinder wall of the cavity by a sort of capsule which allows of its turning 
on its longitudinal axis. The long projection of the malleus and the short pro- 
cess of the incus answer therefore together to the transverse axis marked d ein 
the first delineation, around which turns the little rod marked a h. The longer 
process of the incus runs parallel to the handle (manuhrium) of the malleus, 
from which it is separated by a small interval, its course through the cavity be- 
ing rather more inward and backward. As the membrane of the tympanum lies 
obliquely this process is consequently placed obliquely ; but its lower end, which 
corresponds to the rod a f of the first delineation, bends upwards, so that the 
foot-plate of the stapes, which is united to it, looks in a certain degree in the 
same direction. This foot-plate is introduced, like the piston of a syringe, but 
more loosely, into an oval aperture (fenestra ovalis) of the bony wall of the so- 
called labyrinth; around its edge there extends to the margin of the aperture a 
small membranous border which renders the aperture water-tight, while, through 
its elasticity, it permits the stapes to make slight excursions up and down in the 
receptacle. The opposed opening, (fenestra rotunda,) whose necessity was shown 
above, exists in the labyrinth in the shape of a small round window, closed with 
an elastic membrane. 

It will not be difficult for the reader, with the aid of our previous representa- 
tion of the general scheme, to conceive in what manner this apparatus, under its 
actual conditions, must operate when the membrane of the tympanum is made 
to oscillate by the impression of the air- waves. If the membrane of the tym- 
panum be driven inwards, both malleus and incus move as if they were but one 
piece, though, at first, it is true, only the handle of the malleus is directly moved ; 
but the incus follows the impulse, the adjustment admitting of no counter action. 
Both turn upon the common axis, which consists of the long projection of the 
malleus, and the short process of the incus, so that the neck and head of the 
malleus, and thus the part of the apparatus lying above the axis, describe an arc 



THE SENSE O?^ HEARING 157 

ontvvards and downwards, tli handle of th" malleus, on the other hand, and the 
long process of the incus describe an ar- inwards and upwards, and consequently 
till' stapes fixed at the end of this long process is pressed more deeply into the 
oval window of the labyrinth If the membrane of the tympanum bends out- 
wards with the receding wave, the preceduig movements are reversed, the part 
of thi' apparatus abov.' th" axis turns inwards and upwards, the part below the 
axis outwards and downwards, so that the base of the stapes is proportionably 
withdrawn from the oval opening These changes of direction, alternating in 
rapid succession, produce undulations in the fluid of the labyrinth, of which we 
shall pi'esentl}' have occasion to speak. 

We should by no means think of the described movements of this system of 
ossicles as being of any considei'able extent ; on the contraiy, the displacements 
undergone by its several parts from the appulse of even the stiongest waves upon 
the tympaiium are excessively slight ; indeed, we meet with certain arrangements 
in the apparatus which are evidently calculated to restrict the extent of these 
movements. This end is subserved, especially, by the ligamentous fastenings of 
th'- axis of movement and of the base of the stapes. Were it intended that the 
malleus and incus should follow, freely and unimpeded, the most extreme flex- 
ions, inwards and outwards, which the membrane of the tympanum might exe- 
cute under the influence of the air-waves, the ends of the axis must have been 
inserted, like those of an axletree, in sockets which oppose no resistance except 
that arising fi-om friction. But the ends of the axis in question are tightly secured 
by tense ligatures, which are twisted by every turn of the axis, and by virtue of 
their elasticity offer the more resistance the greater the torsion. In like manner 
a resistance is opposed to the movements of the apparatus by the nature of the 
ligature which unites the base of the stapes with the fenestra! opening ; the small 
membranous border, before described, very quickly arrests by its tension the intro- 
mission and retreat of the foot-plate. It is apparent, also, that the resistance 
thus offered restricts the oscillations of the tympanum itself, causing them to be 
of less extent than they would be, under an equal force of the aii-- waves, were 
the membrane not united with the ossicles. The object of this restriction is 
easily conjectured. Though we know not what force of the atmospberi.- undu- 
lations can be borne by the extremities of the nerves suspended ni the fluid of 
the labyrinth, yet we may well infer that they would be injuriously aflected by a 
very violent shock, as the nerve of sight is dazzled by too inten:!c an undulation 
of the luminous ether. As in the eye protective arrangements are met with which 
in a certain degree shield the optic nerve from too strong an impression of the 
light, an analogous intention may, with the greatest probabdity, be ascribed to 
the adjustments which in the small bones of the tympanum act in restraint of 
their movements. This pi-obability almost becomes certainty when we take into 
view a further arrangement of this apparatus, for which scarcely any other object 
can be imagined than to prevent t jo violent a percussion of the fluid of the laby- 
rinth. This arrangement we will now examine somewhat more closely. 

Wherefoi-e do we find, in place of an inflexible lever, consisting of one piece, 
such as is supposed in our representation of the general scheme of operations, and 
as would have fulfilled all the conditions of those operations, an apfiaratus com- 
posed of two separate parts, malleus and incus, connected with one another by a 
species of hinge. What are the kind of m ovr-mt-nts for which this liinge is des- 
tined, and what is the signification of this mobility ? Why, again, is the stapes 
a separate bone ? To be able to answer these questions, we cannot dispense with 
bringing to the notice of our reader the existence and mechanical reliuons of two 
small muscles, evidently destined for the movement of these bones of the ear, 
one of them pertaining to the malleus, the other to the stapes. The first is the 
more important ; it springs from about the middle of the skull, passes with 
its soft and somewhat long fasciculus of fibres, in a channel of its own, to the 
cavity of the tympanum, into which it penetrates, with its tendinous end, 



158 ON THE SENSES. 

opposite to the tympanic membrane. The tendon goes obliquely through the 
cavity, and is attached, at a right angle, to the handle of the malleus, near the 
turning point. We must suppose it to be known what a muscle is, and shall 
therefore only observe that every muscle has the power of contracting under 
a certain influence of the nerves, by which means a thickening takes place in 
the body of the muscle, and its two ends are brought nearer to one another. 
When the muscle in question, the so-called tensor tympani, contracts at the 
excitation of its nerve, it tends, since its interior point of origin is immovably 
fixed, to draw its exterior point of insertion, and consequently the handle of 
the malleus, inwards. But the malleus alone cannot freely follow this traction, 
first, because it is itself fastened by its long projection to the wall of the cavity 
of the tympanum ; secondly, because it is inserted between the coats of the 
tympanic membrane ; thirdly, because it is connected by articulation with the 
incus. It is not easy to determine with certainty in what manner this resistance 
modifies the displacement of the malleus by the muscular traction. Were the 
malleus and incus united in one piece, the operation of the muscle could be no 
other than that of a condensed wave of air coming from without ; it would turn 
the lever apparatus in such manner on the above described transverse axis, that 
the handle of the malleus and the longer process of the incus would move in- 
wards and upwards, and the stapes be thereby pressed deeper into the fenestra 
ovaiis, while the membrane of the tympanum united to the handle must also 
comply with the traction, be drawn further inwards, and consequently rendered 
more tense. This is, in fact, the muscular effect which is genei'ally recognized, 
and has procured for the muscle its name of "tensor tympani." There are cir- 
cumstances, however, which justify hesitation in admitting that in this simple 
way everything is explained. The muscle is relatively very long and its tendon 
attached so near the turning-point of the malleus, that if, through the contrac- 
tion, it were shortened by a very small part of its length, the result would be 
a comparatively very large introversion of the malleus. Now, the membrane 
of the tympanum might indeed, under strong tension, follow with the malleus 
the traction of the muscle to a considerable extent ; but not so the incus, be- 
cause the penetration of the stapes into i\iQ finestra ovalis would encounter in- 
superable resistance, partly in the ligature of the foot-plate by the narrow bor- 
der, partly in the fluid which can only yield so far as the opposed opening of 
the labyrinth, the so-called _/e;?es<ra rotunda, permits. Hence a forcible pres- 
sure of the stapes would render the propagation of the sound-producing move- 
ment wholly impossible, since no condensed wave would be capable of driving 
it more deeply inwards, no rarefied wave could move it outwards against the 
traction of the muscle. The length of the fibres of the muscle shows, on the 
other hand, that the magnitude of the movement for which it is intended can be 
no such very slight one, for, throughout our body, the length of the muscular 
fibres is found to be in direct proportion to the extent of the movement to be 
accomplished by them. The supposition is therefore forced upon us that the. 
muscle in question can move the malleus alone to a certain extent, without any 
proportionable movement of the incus ; that the malleus, while, with the mem- 
brane of the tympanum, it obeys the traction of the muscle, is pressed more 
firmly against the incus and into the joint which connects both. This hypoth- 
esis is the more plausible, because by this alone is explained the presence of the 
articulation, for which there would otherwise be no apparent reason. We must 
unfortunately renounce the design of laying before the reader proof of the cor- 
rectness of the hypothesis drawn from the structure of the articulation, the di- 
rection of the muscular traction, &c., for the discussion of these extremely subtle 
relations would be impossible without the employment of preparations from 
nature, and would perhaps even then leave the matter in doubt. We can there- 
fore only trust to the reader's faith when we allege that the tensor muscle, in 
contracting, draws the malleus somewhat inward, thereby occasioning greater 



THE SENSE OF HEARING 159 

tension of the tympanum, but leaves the incus in its natural position, because it 
turns the malleus less upon the axis common to the two ossicles than upon a 
vertical axis which passes through the point at Avhich its long projection is at- 
tached to the wall of the cavity. Both malleus and incus acquire, through the 
resulting pressure of their articulating surfaces against each other, a new rel- 
ative position, but act in this new position, towards the waves of sound arriving 
from without, as a single lever which propagates their impressions by means of 
the stapes to the fluid of the labyrinth. 

If our readers should perhaps think this explanation of a small and incon- 
spicuous mechanism tiresome and superfluous, while we can take no exception 
to the first of these epithets, we must protest against the application oF the 
second ; the influence of that mechanism on the hearing is, in fact, of the highest 
importance. In what follows we shall simply regard, as the efi'ect of the muscle 
in question, an increase of the tension of the membrane of the tympanum, and 
shall inquire in what consists the utility of that efi'ect. There can be no doubt 
that it consists in deadening the effect of too intense an action of the waves of 
sound. It is a physical fact that strongly stretched membranes respond to these 
waves with less intensity, are thrown by them into weaker vibrations, than 
membranes in a state of less tension ; a fact which has been shown by multi- 
plied experiments and may be here taken for granted. As the skin of a drum 
is pressed inwards by the hand with more difiiculty when it is tightly stretched 
than when relaxed, so the membrane of our ear opposes the greater resistance 
to the force of the impinging undulations of the air the greater the tension of 
the membrane. It is a matter of indifference whether the stretching force is 
exerted around the rim in the plane of the membrane, oi', as is the case with 
the action of the tensor tympani, at the centime of the membrane and perpen- 
dicularly to its plane. It has already been seen that the resistance opposed by 
the membrane to the air-wave increases in proportion to its convex curvature 
from the increasing force of the elastic reaction ; the tensor muscle, which acts 
like a wave of condensation in producing inward flexion of the membrane and 
thereby increasing its tension, must in like manner intensify the elastic forces 
and increase the resistance to the air-waves. Now, if the membrane, in conse- 
quence of the increased tension, executes vibrations of less magnitude, in the 
same degree will the oscillations of the small bones which are moved by it, and 
finally the intensity of the undulations in the fluid of the labyrinth, be abated; 
in a word, a given air-wave excites a weaker sensation of sound under strong 
tension of the tympanum than under slight tension. 

This result may at any time be verified in the simplest manner — not, indeed, 
by a voluntary contraction of the tensor tympani, but by other means which we 
possess of increasing the tension of the membrane The cavity of the tympa- 
num is not altogether closed up, for the Eustachian tube penetrates into it with 
a rather long channel, which, at its anterior extremity, opens into the hinder 
part of the throat near the palate ; by this channel the air within the cavity is 
placed in communication with the outer atmosphere, which, in the act of breath- 
ing, passes by the orifice of the tube. By a certain effort, during that act, it is 
in our power to press the air through this tube into the cavity of the tympanum, 
and, by another sort of efi"ort, to withdraw it therefrom ; the first takes place if, 
in the act of ordinary expiration, we bar the egress of the air through the mouth 
and nose, and thus compel its passage into the Eustachian tube ; the second, if, 
with closed mouth and nose, we make an effort at inhalation, and, by thus en- 
larging the space occupied by air, produce its rarefaction in all parts of the re- 
spiratory appg,ratus, and consequently in the cavity of the tympanum. In both 
cases the tympanic membrane is more tightly braced ; in the former the inhaled 
air presses the yielding membrane outwards ; in the latter the membrane is 
drawn more strongly inwards in consequence of the rarefaction of the internal 
air, and the same effect is produced as by a contraction of the tensor muscle. 
In both cases obtuseness of hearing is the result. If we press air with force 



160 



ON THE SENSES. 



into the cavity, there occurs, at the moment when the air enters, a cracking or 
clashing noise, which is very clearly perceptible to ourselves, and may even be 
heard by others, if their ear be brought near to ours; during the whole time 
that air is thus compressed in the cavity there exists, but perceptible only by 
ourselves, a humming noise, which increases and decreases with the force of the 
compression. The nature and causes of this singular noise in one's own ear 
are not determined with certainty. According to an old and widely-received 
opinion, the cracking S(jund arises from a sudden and voluntary contraction of 
the tensor muscle and the consequent sudden stretching of the membrane of the 
tympanum ; but as the noise does not, as the supporters of this opinion believe, 
occur at the moment when air ceases to be driven into the cavity, but, on the 
contrary, at the moment when it commences, this view is clearly erroneous. 
The noise arises upon the sudden flexure outwards of the membrane, and 
therefore with the tensor muscle relaxed. A conjecture advanced by the author 
of these lines is to the effect that the phenomenon in question is perhaps to be 
explained in a manner analogous to the well known cracking which ensues 
when a finger is suddenly and forcibly pulled, and proceeds from a sudden sep- 
aration of the closely contiguous surfaces of the articulation between the mal- 
leus and incus ; it supposes that the abrupt outward flexure of the membrane 
may produce an instantaneotis and audible severance of these surfaces, of which 
the first must follow the membrane, while the last cannot, on account of the 
unyielding ligature of the stapes. This conjecture it would be difficult to verify, 
wherefore we shall not dwell upon it, but return to the dullness produced in the 
perceptions of the organ by the contraction of the muscle of the malleus. 

The intention of this superinduced dullness of hearing is apparent from what 
has been said above ; it consists in preventing a too strong and dangerous con- 
cussion of the tender nerve fibres by unduly intense undulations of the medium 
of sound. That this end should be attained, it is unconditionally necessary that 
the tensor muscle should, at the right time — that is, when air-waves of a certain 
intensity enter the organ — be brought into action, and this really takes place, 
although the " how " has not been indubitably shown. It is thought by many 
that the will provides for the seasonable interposition of the muscular contrac- 
tion ; that is to say, that, if a very strong sound reaches the sensorium, the will 
calls into service the conscious reaction of the suppressive mechanism. This is 
neither proved nor probable, for the will would be a very precarious sentinel. 
In sleep, or when the attention is wholly diverted from the perceptions of the 
organ, the will would not fulfil its (iLuty, and the nerves would be abandoned to 
the mischievous effects of immoderate sound-waves. The security would be 
much greater if the operation of the muscle were brought about by a simple but 
sure mechanism, which should be set a going by the air-waves in a degree cor- 
responding to their intensity. And this is doubtless the case ; the excitation of 
the nerves of movement takes place, in all probability, through a reflex action 
of the nerves, just as it is by this reflex action that the pupil of the eye is nar- 
rowed, and the dazzling effect of too intense light-waves thereby diminished. If 
a very intense wave of sound reaches the ear, so that the auditory nerves are 
thrown into strong excitement, these immediately transfer in the brain that ex- 
citement to the nerve fibres of the tensor muscle with which they are in direct 
communication by means of a cellular apparatus ; the centrifugal excitement 
thus propagated, (the nervous current), on arriving at the muscle, determines a 
contraction of its fibres^ — a contraction which will be more considerable, the 
stronger the excitement and more forcible the air- wave. In this way, it is true, 
the tension of the tympanum, which serves for deadening the -sound, comes 
somewhat j^ost festum, since already a part of the wave has been conveyed with 
undimiuished intensity to the fluid of the labyrinth and the nerves of hearing ; 
that part, namely, which calls the reflex action of the nervous excitation into 
existence. But it suffices probably for the protection of the nerves of hearing, 
if only a long continuance of the violent concussion is spared them ; but, from 



THE SENSE OF HEARING. 161 

the r.apidity with which the nervous current is propagated, and the shortness of 
the route through a nerve of hearing to the brain, aud theuee again through the 
nerves of motion to the tensor muscle, that part of the waves of sound which 
takes undiminished effect will, in most cases, be excessively small iii comparison 
■with that whoso intensity is broken by the obtunding apparatus. In the eye it 
is no bettf^r. Here also the path of the reflex action, by which the protective 
apparatus is brought into service, lies through the nerves of the sense itself: the 
strong excitement of the optic nerve by dazzling rays of light is transferred in 
the brain to tlie motive nerves of the .so-called iris, and determines this to a 
contraction of the orifice by which the rays are admitted. So much concorning 
this corrective apparatus to the ear. Respecting the operation and uses of the 
small aud short muscle called the stapedius, which springs from the wall of the 
cavity opposite to the stapes and is attached by its tendon to the neck of the 
latter, there prevails much greater uncertainty ; we shall, therefore, spare our 
readers a discussion of conjectures which are untenable, or, at least, destitute of 
proof. Possibly this muscle also is destined to the purpose of lessening the 
effect of intense air-waves. 

Before we direct our attention to the labyrinth and the apparatus of the nerves 
of hearing, we should briefly consider some of the relations borne by the cavity 
of the tympanum and the duct called the Eustachian tube, by which it is con- 
nected with the cavity of the mouth. Although not the slightest doubt can exist 
as to the immediate signification of these parts, and there are no grounds for 
supposing this explanation of their existence inconclusive, yet much ingenuity 
and fruitless pains have be^n employed in vindicating for them far otiier and the 
most singular purposes. Obviously, the cavity and the tube must exist in the 
ear as the air-space and air-hole in an -ordinary drum. The membrane of the 
tympanum could not vibrate were it not surrounded on both sides by air; 
the small bones of the ear would be immovable if, instead of being in air, they 
were fixed in some mass of solids. The air in the cavity, since it would be 
compressed hy the inward curvatures of the membrane, would oppose resistance 
to the movements of the latter if it did not find in the tube a ready issue when 
the membrane is driven inwards, and ready entrance when the membrane again 
swings outwards. This is so simple and clear that all further explanation Avould 
seem unnecessary. We shall, however, briefly notice some of the hypotheses 
advanced on this subject, and hope to show, even to the uninitiated reader, how 
untenable they are. It has been surmised, for instance, that the waves of sound 
which the vibrating membrane of the tympanum must communicate as well to 
the air contained in the cavity as to the ossicles cannot properly be supposed to 
be lost, but must also be available for the use of the organ of hearing, just as if 
it were a criminal prodigality of nature if every one of these waves which im- 
part their effect with such constant and beneficent impartiality to all that can 
vibrate did not reach the auditory nerves of man or beast. The ossicles of the 
tympanum are so apposite, certain, and sensitive an apparatus for the propaga- 
tion of these sound-producing undulations, that there needs no second route for 
conducting them to the nerve; but were such an one really necessary, nature 
could have chosen none more unsuitable than that through the air of the tym- 
panic cavity and the Eustachian tube. For these self-propagating waves of the 
air contained in the cavity, there is but one conceivable manner in which they 
could reach the nerves; no one would think of asserting that they could be 
transmitted to the osseous wall of the labyrinth, from this to the enclosed fluid, 
and from this to the nerves; but the membrane which has been mentioned above 
as closing iha fenestra rotunda, the opposed opening of the labyrinth, and which 
is pressed on one side by the air of the cavity, on the other by the fluid of 
the labyrinth, has been seized on as furnishing tlie rec[ui3ite mechanism. It has 
been contended that the air- waves of the cavity must throw this membrane into 
vibration, just as the waves in the external meatus of the ear do the tympanic 
membrane, and that the vibrations of the former in the fluid of the labyrinth 

] 1 s r>6 



1.62 



ON THE SENSES. 



would be as capable of creating waves for the excitation of the nerves as the 
movements of the stapes iu the fenestra oralis. In itself this last position is not to 
be controverted; but it is to be inquired, first, whether the membrane is really 
throAvn into sensible vibration ; and secondly, whether its oscillations can take 
effect upon the nerves simultaneously with those propagated through the ossicles 
of the tympanum. We do not hesitate to answer both questions in the negative. 
To be thrown into vibration by air- waves, a membrane must receive their impact, 
as far as possible, in a perpendicular direction. But this membrane of the fenes- 
tra rotunda lies as unfavorably as possible in regard to waves proceeding from 
the tympanum, inasmuch as it is turned away from the tympanum and towards 
the Eustachian tube, so that the waves can as little strike it directly as, in the 
dark, one could strike a disk whose edge instead of its flat surface was presented. 

Now, that it is not inaccessible to the waves is certainly true, since its surface 
fronts directly on the air chamber; but its position would much sooner suggest 
the idea that it is, as far as possible, sheltered from the effect of these waves 
than that it is designed for their reception and transmission. But even if we 
admit that it is, iu a slight degree, movable by the waves of the tympanic 
cavity, it is not difficult to show that these movements must be overborne and 
annulled by the opposed movements simultaneously imparted to it by the fluid 
waves proceeding from the stapes. When an external wave of condensation 
drives the membrane of the tympanum inwards, the stapes is driven deeper into 
the fenestra ovalis and the fluid of the labyrinth is propelled before it; but this 
propulsion is only possible, as has been shown, through the simultaneous out- 
ward curvature of the opposite membrane, that, namely, of the fenestra rotunda. 
Now, the same inward movement of the tympanum generates simultaneously a 
condensed wave in the air of the tympanic cavity, and if this wave strikes the 
membrane of the fenestra rotunda it cannot do otherwise than drive this mem- 
brane inwards, and therefore in a direction opposite to the former. But as the 
waves of the fluid in the labyrinth will, no doubt, act with more force on the 
membrane than the air- waves of the cavity, the former must prevail and the 
membrane curve outwards in spite of the latter force. Were the preponderance 
reversed, it is manifest that any movement of the fluid by the stapes would be 
impossible, and the whole system of ossicles would be brought to a stand. 
Hence the sheltered and most unfavorable position of our membrane as regards 
the reception of the air-waves would seem to have been wisely ordered, and to 
be an indispensable condition for the propagation of the sound through the small 
bones of the ear to the labyrinth. 

Other hypotheses respecting the intent of the cavity of the tympanum and 
the Eustachian tube seem to have as little foundation as the above. It has been 
thought by some that the tube was established for the purpose of conveying 
waves of sound from the throat to the organ of hearing. When convinced that 
this notion was untenable and that the tube could be of no avail in conducting 
such sound-waves as reach the pharyngeal cavity from the outer air, the same 
class of theorists fell upon the somewhat naive idea that the tube iu question 
must be designed for sounds proceeding from the organs of speech in its close 
vicinity; that it serves, in a word, for hearing our own voice. Now there are 
many persons, certainly, well pleased to hear themselves speak, who would be 
duly thankful to nature for her civility in establishing quite a special and private 
route for the passage- of their own voice besides the common one into Avhich the 
bellow of any casual bullock may wander. But, in the first place, nature has 
created our voice rather for the ears of others than our own, and, except that 
we might learn to speak, cared probably little about its being audible to our- 
selves ; iu the second place, it may be shown that, setting aside any possible 
concurrence with the sound-waves of bellowing bullocks, the common channel 
of sound through the outer air and the outer ear to the tympanum not only suf- 
fices fully for the perception of our own voice, but, under ordinary circumstances, 
is the only channel for its admission. The Eustachian tube is not by any 



THE SENSE OF HEARING. 163 

means always thoroughly open, but usually its walls lie close to one another, 
although so loosely that every inward curvature of the tympanum readily 
separates them for the expulsion of a portion of the air within the cavity. It 
opens not so readily to the air of the pharynx ; a peculiar effort is necessary to 
effect an entrance of the air in the above mentioned experiment. In ordinary 
speaking and singing this effort is never used; the air coming from the lungs 
chooses the broad and unobstructed outlet of the mouth or nostril, and passes 
by the orifice of both ear-tubes without opening them; consequently, no sound- 
producing air- waves come ordinarily by this channel to the organs of hearing. 
That happens only when, in speaking or singing, we make a peculiar effort, and 
then indeed we suddenly hear our voice, which before sounded as coming from 
without, with deafening force and as if it originated in tlie ear itself. This last 
circumstance is of particular significance; we shall see further on that, in idea, 
we then only judge the source, which we regard as cause of a sound, to he with- 
out us, when the waves thereby generated reach our organ of hearing through 
the external meatus of the car; but whenever it happens that this is impervious 
to the air-waves, we seek the source of the sound icithin ourselves, even when 
it is really without. There can, therefore, be no question of hearing our own 
voice through the Eustachian tube, not to say of its destination for this purpose. 
We could submit more of such hypotheses to criticism were it worth while. 
Much has been idly said respecting a strengthening of the waves of sound in 
the cavity of the tympanum through resonance, but a closer examination of these 
suppositions would require a special investigation of the physical nature of re- 
sonance, its conditions and laws, which would lead us too far, and, candidly to 
speak, be difficult of explanation to novices in this kind of knowledge. 

We leave now the outworks of the organ of hearing and enter upon the 
proper citadel, the recess in which the ramifications of the auditory nerve are 
distributed for the reception of the waves of sound, for whose conveyance the 
appai'atus we have been considering is destined. This recess, to which the 
name of labyrinth has been given, is, as that name implies, a wonderfully com- 
plicated structure, in which, though we need no thread of Ariadne to lead us 
aright, we everywhere encounter mysterious arrangements, whose full acoustical 
and physiological understanding is reserved for future times. The labyrinth is 
a cavity surrounded with walls of bone and filled with a fluid, having two 
openings, of which one {{\iQ fenestra ovalis) is closed by the stapes and its an- 
nular ligament, the other [iho, fenestra rotunda) by a membrane; this cavity 
bas not, however, the simple shape of a sack, but consists of many compart- 
ments and canals in a winding form. If the collective labyrinth be carved from 
the so-called petrous bone, out of the substance of which it is channelled, it 
presents, when seen from without, the appearance of the accompanying figure. 
It consists of two chief divisions, the 

vestibule V with the semicir'-.ular canals '° ' ' " 

K, and the cochlea S. We will con- 
sider first the vestibule and the canals. 
The proper vestibule, which forms the 
middle part of the whole labyrinth, is 
ovoidal in shape, and measures about 
one-fifth of an inch from before back- 
wards and a . little less from above 
downwards ; its wall exhibits eight 
openings. One of these is the already 
mentioned y^wes^ra ovalis, which leads 
into the cavity of the tympanum and 
receives the foot-plate of the stapes; 
a second leads immediately into the 
spiral canal of the cochlea; a third 
passes to a narrow channel bearing the 




1G4 ON THE SENSES. 

name of aqueductus vestibuli ; the remaining five openings lead into tlie three 
semicircular canals, while each of these canals has its opening orifice in the ves- 
tibule and runs back with a terminal orifice into the same ; but as one of these 
apertxn-es is common to two of the canals, there are, in effect, only five of them 
instead of six. The vestibule itself shelters in its water-filled cavity two little 
membranaceous sacs, also filled with fluid and imbedded in separate depressions 
ffovece) of its wall, being channels for the nerves, of Avhich we shall hereafter 
speak. The semicircular canals are narrow bony tubes, bent somewhat into the 
shape of a horseshoe, enlarged at their commencement and termination, and 
from their position and direction are distinguished as the superior, posterior and 
horizontal canal. As nothing results from their special position, we will not 
detain the reader with the pedantry of a scrupulous anatomical description of 
them ; the above outline conveys an adequate idea of their form and direction. 
In each of these canals is fixed a membranous tube, which has the same form 
as the canal, as if it were a reduced cast of it, and dilating therefore at the be- 
ginning and end of the canal into a small roundish cavity called the ampulla. 
The interspace between the membranous tube and the osseous wall of the canal, 
as well as the tube itself, is filled with a watery secretion, which is in immediate 
communication with that of the vestibule. The sack-shaped origin of each 
membranous tube is a conduit for the nerves. The cochlea well deserves its 
name ; the best idea of its form may be acquired by observing the shell of the 
common garden snail. As in this shell a spiral and constantly diminishing 
channel winds, from the base to the apex, around a central spindle, so the inte- 
rior chamber of the cochlea consists of a similar screw-shaped canal, which de- 
scribes, with a like progressive diminution, two and a half turns around the 
modiolus or central axis, terminating, not in a point, but in a funnel-shaped 
dilatation. A more striking difference between the shell of a snail and the 
cochlea consists in this : that the canal of the latter is not single, but is divided, 
throughout iis length, by a transverse partition into two passages, one of which 
runs above, the other belov/ the dividing wall, but which communicate with one 
another in the funnel-shaped expansion ; resembling in some sort a winding stair- 
case by which one might ascend to the top, and, stepping over again, arrive at the 
bottom. An idea of this arrangement may be conveyed by the annexed figure, 

which represents a central longitudinal section 
•^^^" -"^v of the cochlea from its base to its apex. A 

denotes the central axis, S the partition wall 
running around it, V and P the winding pas- 
sages separated from one another by this wall. 
These passages bear the name of scalce (stairs) ; 
that above the partition, marked V, being 
called the scala vestibuli, that below, marked 
P, the scala tympani. They owe these names 
respectively to the circumstance that the former 
communicates, by an oval aperture, with the 
vestibule, while the latter is closed below by 
the membrane of the fenestra rotunda, which faces the cavity of the tympanum. 
Both passages are filled with fluid which, at the entrance of the scala vestibuli, 
is in immediate communication with the fluid of the vestibule. The partition 
S, which divides the canal into two passages, is constituted, as the figure repre- 
sents, by a thin lamina winding spirally around the axis, to which it is attached 
by its inner edge, while its outer edge adheres to the outer wall of the cochlea. 
It consists of tv/o zones, as they are called, united with one another, the one 
osseous, the other membranous, which together extend quite across the canal ; 
that part of it which lies contiguous to the axis being composed of two thin 
lamellaj of bone and reaching as far as the middle, while the outer part, by 
which it is continued to the opposite wall, consists of a soft membranous sub- 
stance, serving, as we shall see, to support the tender apparatus of the nerves. 




THE SENSE OF HEARING. 165 

The description in its several parts of the auditory nerve, which distributes 
filaments in the cavity of the labyrinth for the reception of the advancin"" 
waves of sound, is rather a precarious task, which we may facilitate however, 
without any real loss to the reader, by forbearing to enter into those subth^ de- 
tails which, if a novice, he would scarcely understand. Nor ^vill this bf> wholly 
a sin of omission, for, truth to say, the wonderful apparatus here displayed to 
ns by the microscope is, in its physiological signification, not much less than 
altogether unknown to the physiologists themselves. It is only to-day, so to 
speak, that the corypha?us of our science has succeeded in detecting the true ana- 
tomical constitution of the extremities of the nerves of hearing in the cochlea 
and vestibule, so difficult is it to submit uninjured to observation these infinit-dy 
delicate structures, hidden deeply in the skull and shut up within osseous Avails, 
and to grope one's .way in the astonishing complexity of the elementary tissues 
which the microscope reveals in them. The auditory nerve, running back from 
its origin at the base of the brain, issues, after a short course through several 
openings in the petrous bone, into the labyrinth, and here divides into two prin- 
cipal branches destined for different parts. Each penetrates by a separate aper- 
ture, the one into the vestibule, the other into the cochlea. The former again 
divides into numerous filaments which direct their course partly to the two mem- 
branous sacs of the vestibule, pai'tly to the membranous ampulla situated at the 
beginning of the semicircular canals, where their extremities are distributed 
eomething after the manner of a delicate brush. These minute fibres, each of 
which forms an isolated conductor of the nervous current, terminate finally in 
delicate bulbs or nerve cells. It is a remarkable peculiarity that at the terminal 
expansion of the nerves of hearing a finely grained calcareous substance is in- 
terspersed through the delicate fibrous tissue of the vestibular sacs, consisting, 
as is clearly apparent under the microscope, of minute but distinctly forni'd 
crystals. Chemical investigation has shown that this otolith or " sand of the 
ear," consists of a compound widely dispersed through animate and inanimate 
nature, the same v/hich, under the name of chalk or marble, forms mountains and 
rocks, and which, as shell, protects from outward injury the embryo of the 
feathered tribe ; in a word, of carbonate of lime. It may be mentioned by the 
way that this calcareous matter is not peculiar to man, but occurs also in the 
organ of most animals, partly as a finely crystallized mass, partly in larger or 
emaller crystals ; its significancy as respects the hearing has as yet resisted all 
efforts of conjecture and experiment. The second principal branch of the audi- 
tory nerve, the cochlear, passes to the base of the cochlea and ascends within 
its axis to the apex, becoming more and more attenuated as it continues to give 
out filaments which proceed from it at right angles between the plates of the 
bony lamina, to their outer border. Corresponding to the spiral winding of this 
septum or partition wall, the filamentary offshoots from the trunk form also a 
spiral line. At the edge of the bony portion of the lamina these filaments issue 
upon the membranous portion and pursue their course at first along its under 
surfiice and consequently within the scala tympani, but presently pass through 
different small foramina into the scala vestibuli and now run transversely along 
the upper surfiice of the membranous lamina towards the outer Avail of the cochlea, 
in the neighborhood of Avliich they terminate. That part of these filaments 
which traverses the upper surface of the membranous lamina in the scala vesti- 
buli, is, however, no longer the "simple nerve fibre Avhich Ave observed in the trunk 
and in its course betAveen the plates of the bony portion of the lamina ; it has 
become a singularly complex structure Avith cells, partly inserted m its progress, 
partly as appendages of the stem. It would require no little detail to give an ex- 
act account of the microscopic constitution of these nerve extremities, nor would 
our inquiry even then be much advanced, since physiology is still greatly in the 
dark as regards this delicate mechanism. The reader Avill perhaps oblaiu the 
best idea thereof if he imagines himself ascending, suppose in th" ^cala vesti- 



166 ON THE SENSES. 

buli, by a real winding staircase, the stairs 'of which consist of many thousand 
small and closely contiguous steps, each step being represented by the trans- 
versely directed terminal part of one of these nerve filaments. It is still in 
dispute whether this terminal apparatus floats freely in the fluid of the scala 
vestibuli, or adheres by its outer end to the membranous lamina ; whether it is 
covered over by a second delicate membrane and thus is enclosed between two 
membranes, &c. 

We proceed now to a consideration of the transmission of sound in the lab- 
yrinth. We have seen that the waves of sound are communicated to the fluid 
of the labyrinth by the piston-like movements of the stapes in the fenestra ovalis, 
and have been led to recognize the corresponding out and inward curvatures of 
the membrane of the fenestra rotunda as the indispensable condition through 
which the undulatory movement of the fluid is rendered possible. But how 
these waves are constituted, how propagated, what their special destinations in 
the different divisions of the labyrinth, in what manner they operate on the ex- 
tremities of the nerves in the vestibule and the cochlea, for what reason these ex- 
tremities present to them so peculiar an apparatus and arrangement, these are 
questions which press for an answer, and until answered debar us from a solution of 
the mystery in which the excitation of the nerves by the waves of sound is envel- 
oped ; the answers given to them have thus far, however, proved poor and un- 
satisfactory. The nature of the fluid-waves of the labyrinth is essentially the 
same with that of the air- waves ; according as the stapes presses inwards or is 
withdrawn, there is a succession of waves of condensation and rarefaction, in 
which the single particles of the fluid, as they follow one another, act precisely 
as was above explained in reference to the particles of air. The course of the 
waves is, at least in its principal features, clearly and definitely prescribed ; the 
waves must first be propagated into the vestibule, whereby the membranous 
sacs suspended therein, together with the extremities of their nerves, will be 
agitated. Were the vestibule entirely shut ip, while only the fenestra rotunda, 
closed with its membrane, found a place at a point of the osseous wall, the 
waves would be restricted in their play, and would everywhere bound against 
the solid structure and be beaten back from it like the sea from a rocky coast. 
The repulsed waves would encounter those which were following, and disturb 
their action by giving to their advancing particles a contrary impulse. As, in 
this way, the whole effect of the waves in producing a regular excitation of the 
nerves would be frustrated, it is evidently of the utmost importance that the 
A-estibule should be provided with the numerous openings which lead to the canals 
filled with fluid ; these canals serve as conduits for the waves of the vestibule, 
which must necessarily traverse them as well as the long passages of the coch- 
lea before reaching the fenestra rotunda, which lies at their further extremity, 
and which, by the yielding of its elastic membrane, alone renders the existence 
of the waves possible. The action and course of the wave in the semicircular 
canals are diificult to ascertain with physical accuracy ; but, as regards the 
cochlea, it is at least clear that, since only the upper scala opens into the vesti- 
bule from which it takes its name, the wave must traverse the whole canal by 
this passage to the apex, then pass over into the scala tympani and descend by 
the latter, which lies underneath the dividing lamina, until it finally takes effect 
on the membrane of the -fenestra rotunda at the base. During its course through 
the scala vestibuli it must strike in regular succession upon all the nerve ex- 
tremities which cross that passage, and exert upon each of them, one after the 
other, its peculiar excitation. This is but a rough sketch, it ia true, of the 
movement of the waves of the labyrinth, but it is nearly all that we know with 
certainty. Efforts have not been wanting to penetrate further, and especially 
to ascertain whether, where, and in what direction the waves are reflected or 
thrown back, whether this reflection produces an increased degree of undulating 
intensity through resonance (somewhat in the manner of the reflection of the 



THE SENSE OF HEARING. 167 

waves of souud from tho walls of a lofty apartment.) Numerous investigations 
have been instituted by the most ingenious experimentalis'ts to throw light upon 
these subtle inquiries, but the results have been so scanty and uncertain that we 
abstain from the discussion of the different conjectures advanced, especially as 
the possibility of making them suiBciently intelligible must be doubted. It has 
also been a question, and one which has long been the subject of lively scientific 
discussion, to what end serve the different arrangements observed in the exten- 
sion of the terminal portions of tlip nerves, first in the saccules of the vestibule 
and semicircular canals, in which the brush-shaped ramifications of the nerve 
extremities are struck simultaneously by advancing particles of the fluid ; sec- 
ondly, in the cochlea, in which these nerve extremities are so arrang(?d behind 
one another that the waves must strik<^ them successively one after the other; 
or, more generally, what special design have the cochlea, the vestibule, the semi- 
circular canals ? We might fill pages with the enumeration and criticism of 
the conjectures in which a solution has been sought, and would only see that 
most of them were destitute of proof, some even absurd. It has been supposed, 
for example, that the semicircular canals serve fur a knowledge of the direction 
from which the wavfs of sound proceed. As if the perception of the direction 
could at all be the object of an impression of the sense ; as if a wave of the fluid 
could telegraph to the mind, through the nerve which is struck, the point of the 
compass from which the excitation is directed ; as if a differeot direction of the 
fluid-waves within the labyrinth could be the herald of a different direction of 
the air- waves without! We hope to explain presently in what manner we ob- 
tain an idea of the position in space of the external sources of sound. In regard 
to the cochlea, the opinion has long obtained favor that it is intended to conduct 
to the nerves contained in it the waves of sound directly communicated from 
the air to the bones of the head and propagated through these, while the, vesti- 
bule is destined only for the reception of the vibrations transmitted through the 
auditory canal, the tympanum, and the ossicles. This assumption rests on the 
early but erroneous opinion that the nerve filaments of the cochlea terminated 
between the bony plates of the laminar partition. Since it is known, however, 
that they issue from these and terminate free in the fluid of the cochlear canal, 
this hypothesis has become untenable, for air-waves (and it is these almost 
alone which convey a sound to the human ear) are transmitted with so much 
difliculty and so much enfeebled to the bones of the cranium, and again with 
such difficulty and feebleness from these to a fluid (the cochlea fluid,) that it is 
scarcely conceivable that in this way a sound producing vibration could reach 
the nerves of the cochlea with a strength sufficient for their excitation. In short, 
the unpalatable but honest confession of ignorance is the only answer which can 
properly be given to the above questions. 

We have finished our explanation of the progress of the auditory excitation 
in our organ of hearing ; we have followed the sound-producing movement from 
its origin in the outward object (the vibrating string) through the external air, 
the external ear, the auditory canal, the tympanum, the movable bones, and the 
fluid of the labyrinth, to the nerves. We come now to the pith of the subject, 
the problem which it is the part of acoustical physiology to solve, to the ques- 
tion, how does this movement operate upon the nerves when it has reached 
them ? How does it release in them the so-called " nerve current," which, pro- 
ceeding through their fibres to the brain, there, by a certain apparatus, so works 
upon the soul that the latter instantaneously conceives a sensation of sound ? 
We need not combat anew the irrational idea that the sound-movement, as such, 
is propagated in the nerves ; that a sound wave, transmitted from particle to 
particle, operates as such upon the perceptive apparatus in the brain. We have 
in earlier articles sufficiently established the fact that tlni pi-ocess itself in the 
nerve fibres is totally different from the external irritant of th^' sense which pro- 
duces it ; that it is a specific movement of the nerve molecules of a yet unex- 



168 ON THE SENSES. 

plained nature, and probably essentially the same in all nerves, whetber it be 
genemted by waves of light or of sound, by pres.?ure or heat, by objects of taste 
or of smell. At the peripheral end of all the nerves of sense wlaich we have 
heretofore considered, we have everywhere found or must suppose an appro- 
priate terminal apparatus, whose function it is so to elaborate the excitation 
which is received from without, that a movement of the current in the fibres of 
the nerve shall ensue. This is the case with the nerves of hearing. It is 
nearly certain that it is not the simple mechanical agitation of the filaments 
of the auditory nerve which excites them, for this agitation excites no other 
nerve, yet is the nerve of hearing as like to all others as one copper wire to 
another ; the wave of sound must first call into existence some other action 
which is capable of stimulating the nerve fibre. Of what nature it is, and how 
the waves of the fluid of the labyrinth produce it, is wholly unexplained ; we 
can only designate with certainty the seat and instruments of this enabling 
action ; there are here as elsewhere, at the outer ends of the nerves, the minute 
fibres and bulbs which the microscope discloses to us. Still less have we any 
intimation how the " current" of the auditory nerves, generated mediately by the 
undulatory movement, acts upon the brain and the soul, so that the latter forms 
the specific conception of sound. We can here only refer to the general reason- 
ing by which, in previous essays, it has been shown that it is the quality of th« 
'in7ier central and terminal apparatus of the nerve fibres which determines the 
characteristic effect of the current, the nature of the sensation. Who knows 
whether, with the sounding plummet of experiment, we shall ever succeed in 
exploring these deepest mysteries of existence? 

The final result of every excitation of the auditory nerve produced by a 
movement of the kind we have been describing is a spiritual incident, which, 
in general terms, we denominate a sensation of sound, but of which we distin- 
guish several qualities. We contrast a sensation of tone with mere noise ; we 
divide sounds according to their "pitch " and their tone; each of these quali- 
ties again is susceptible of an endless gradation of intensity from the lightest, 
only to be perceived by the most strained attention, to that which seems to 
penetrate us by its intolerable force. The qualities, like the intensity of the 
sensation, are determined by certain momenta referable to the nature of the ex- 
ternal excitation ; thus the pitch of the sound depends on the number of the 
waves which in a given time reach the ear ; the tone on the form of the waves ; 
the intensity on the magnitude of the displacement which the wave communi- 
cates to the particles. The explication of these relations is thus far exclusively 
the affair of physics ; we shall not here enter at large into this branch of learn- 
ing, because it is at present really not susceptible of a physiological interpreta- 
tion ; that is to say, although we know from experience that a determinate, sub- 
jectively recognized sound is causatively conditioned on certain properties of 
the external movement which are very imperfectly understood, we are unable 
to explain the why ; to specify how this or that form of movement acts upon 
the ear ; how it operates upon the nerve ; much less can we describe the specific 
quality of the nervous current, which is its result, or, in the last place, the 
quality of the sensation. Referring the reader, therefore, to the popular expo- 
sitions of writers on physics, we shall confine ourselves here to a few observa- 
tions. A sound of some definite pitch arises when a sound-producing body — 
a string, for instance— rcxecutes a certain number of vibrations in a unit of time, 
so long as this number is not too small or too great. In other words, the vibra- 
tions are only audible, only capable of producing the appropriate excitation of 
tht- nerves, within certain limits of frequency. Under favorable circumstances we 
can hear a sound — the deepest that is possible — when a string, an air-column, 
&c., executes sixteen vibrations in a second, while with yet slower vibrations 
the auditory nerve, under all circumstances, remains at rest, be the. intensity as 
considerable as it may. On the other hand, there is also a maximum velocity 



THE SENSE OF HEARING. 169 

with which alone the sensation of sound — the highest possible — consists; this 
npper limit of the scale of sounds is not accurately ascertained, because with 
different organs of hearing it is now higher, now lower. It is held, however, 
that a sensation of sound no longer arises when the number of vibrations ex- 
ceeds 64,000 in a second. This fact is well suited to show that sound exists 
not without, originates not in, the vibrating sti'ing, but in our own sensation ; 
eise were it difficult to see why, with a certain lowest and highest number of 
vibrations, the laws of movement remaining wholly unchanged, this movement 
should lose the property of sound. Very conceivable is it, on the other hand, 
that the auditory nerve ceases to react when the vibrations which strike it fol- 
low one another too slowly or too rapidly. An exact physiological explanation 
of this restriction of the irritability of the auditory nerve to certain limits it is 
not ill our power to give ; but it is interesting to observe that there is yet an- 
other nerve of sense which affords a complete analogy to this state of relations — 
the nerve, namely, of vision. As the nerve of hearing is excited by the waves 
of sound, propagated to it from solid and fluid matter, so is the optic nerve ex- 
cited by the v/aves of the luminous ether, which are subject to the same general 
laws of undulatory movement. As waves of sound of different frequency produce 
an impression of different qualities of the sensation of sound or a different pitch 
of tone, so waves of light of different frequency give rise to perceptions of differ- 
ent color, but, as in the case of the auditory nerve, only within certain limits of 
rapidity. If more than 697,000,000,000 or less than 439,000,000.000 of vibra- 
tions of the luminous ether follow one another in a second, the optic nerve is 
insensible of any impression, even when the vibrations undoubtedly reach it. 
Between the limits above assigned for the sense of hearing lies an endless series 
of differently qualified sensations, every possible number of vibrations between 
16,000 and 64,000 producing a modification of quality — a sound of definite 
pitch. Yet we mean not thereby to say that our faculty of discrimination 
among these different qualities is itself unlimited, or, in other words, that we 
are conscious of a difference of quality in the sensation when two undulations 
of different rapidity strike the ear near or after one another, how small soever 
the difference may be. On the contrary, it is a fact easily substantiated 
that most men have originally but " a poor ear," but that, through use, a tolera- 
bly high degree of delicacy of hearing is attainable ; thus, while many scarcely 
recognize two sounds as of different pitch, one of which is produced by 800, the 
other by 810 vibrations in a second, there are musicians who seize the differ- 
ence with accuracy, and distinguish the higher from the deeper tone when the 
number of vibrations is 1,200 in the one, 1,201 in the other. The auditory 
uerve, or, more properly, the organ of sensation on which it operates, is in this 
respect subject to the same conditions with the rest of the organs of sense, being 
susceptible, through judicious and attentive use, of improvement in its perform- 
ance, and specially in its faculty of discriminating between sensations of differ- 
ent quality. 

A highly interesting question, but one which unfortunately has set at naught 
every attempt at explanation, arises out of the fact that we can perceive simul- 
taneously a great niimber of sounds together, and distinguish the pitch, tone, 
and strength of each of them. The harmonious association of different sounds may 
often seem to the uninitiated a chaos, from which he is unable to distinguish the 
individual members, while to the musically cultivated it is no difficult matter to 
disentangle from the fullest instrumental or vocal orchestra each sound signal- 
ized by a special pitch or tone, to follow the melody through all its inflections, 
and clearly perceive all the transitions ; but even the laity know from experi- 
ence that it is possible to single out an individual voice from the buzz of a com- 
pany all speaking together. The art consists only in fixing the attention in- 
flexibly on the tone or modulation which we desire to separate from the rest, 
and in this respect also use refines and strengthens the discriminative fliculty of 



170 ON THE SENSES. 

the sense. At first glance, perhaps, this fact may not seem very singular ; not 
more so than the simultaneous perceptions of other organs — the skin and the 
eye. Innumerable impressions on the skin are simultaneously perceived, and, 
in idea, locally separated from one another, if the space between the impressions 
is sufficient ; and when they are situated close to one another the mind takes 
cognizance of their number, and from that and their position determines the size 
and form of an external object. So is it likewise with the eye, which can per- 
ceive simultaneously so many objects, and direct the attention at will to each of 
them as sensible and contiguous points on the retina. The analogy of this 
power of local discrimination in the impressions of touch and sight with the 
simultaneous hearing of several tones cannot be doubted, but, while i'or the first 
the explanation is simple and obvious, an analogous interpretation is not appli- 
cable to the sense of hearing. In the organs ot touch and sight the severance 
of the simultaneous impressions rests on the local severance of their external 
exciting causes ; that is to say, on the excitation, through separate impressions, 
of different conducting nerve fibres isolated from one another — a point which we 
had occasion to discuss when treating of the sense of touch. Could it be shown 
that in the ear likewise the undnlations pertaining to different sounds acted 
upon different nerve fibres, a severance of impressions, in conformity with the 
number of single fibres excited, would be a necessary postulate. But no proof 
of this is possible ; on the contrary, a consideration of the circumstances under 
which sound is transmitted in the organ of hearing forces us to the conclusion 
that each wave strikes upon all the nerve fibres, and that a number of undula- 
tions, originating near one another, must blend in a single movement long before 
they reach the reservoirs of the nerves. It is clear that the tympanum cannot 
possibly vibrate at the same time in conformity with the impulse of several un- 
dulations, slowly with the deep, rapidly with the high pitch, with this and that 
acceleration, according to the character of the tone, in such wise that the simul- 
taneous sounds shall be transmitted, without reciprocal disturbance, from the 
tympanum, through the intermediate organs, to the labyrinth Just as a body 
on which a blow from different directions simultaneously takes effect, cannot 
proceed in the direction of both at once, but will take a middle course, so must 
the vibrations of the tympanum take, according to the laws of mechanics, a 
middle form, resulting from the different concomitant impulsions ; and hence only 
a single undulation, as representative and result of all those generated outside, 
will be transmitted to the labyrinth. Of any contrivance in the labyrinth by 
which this compovmd movement may be again resolved into its original single 
elements, and each element — that is to say, each undulation belonging to a de- 
terminate note or tone — be directed to a special organ, and thus transmitted to 
the brain, we know nothing and can form no conception. In advance, there- 
fore, it only remains to suppose that this resultant undulation, as such, strikes 
on its passage and excites each successive nerve, and that it is the soul which 
first resolves into its constituent elements the compound sensation arising from 
without ; but liow, is an inexplicable riddle. 

We leave the consideration of the pure sensations of hearing, and turn lastly 
to a brief discussion of the ideas derived from this sense and their mode of 
origination. As with all the rest of the senses, the sensations first acquire value 
and serviceableness for the intercourse of the soul with the outer world by their 
association with certain ideas, which, in the previously educated sense, are so 
unconsciously and infallibly identified with the sensations, that we take them for 
the sensations themselves. The sensation of hearing, like every other sensation 
hi sense, is a purely subjective process, a transformation, it might be said, of our 
consciousness. The cognizance of the existence of an external source of sound 
as cause of the sensation, the perception of its direction and distance in outer 
space, pertain to the idea which attaches itself, through a physical' operation, so 
closely to the sensation, and becomes so blended with it, that we seek not only 



THE SENSE OF HEARING. 171 

the source of sound outside of our own ear, but the sound — that is, the sensation 
itself, with all its qualities; that we think the sound penetrales as such from 
■without through the portals of hearing to our soul. The newly-born child hears 
like the grown man, has the same quality of sensation, but he knows not whence 
the sound comes, knows not that it comes from without, or, indeed, that there is 
anything without him. It learns gradually to distinguish outer objects from its 
/, its Ego, and thus comes gradually to recognize the cause of the sensation of 
sound as something existing outside of itself We have, as a general thesis, 
discussed in previous essays on the senses the process by which this objectivity 
is made familiar to the human mind ; we shall here, therefore, only consider the 
method in which the process is specially conducted as regards the sense of 
hearing. A fact which at once guides us to a right point of view is this : that 
only under a certain condition do we conceive an outward object to be the cause 
of the sensation of sound, and when this condition is wanting, seek the source 
of the sensation within ourselves, even when we know and are directly informed 
by other senses that it lies without us ; that condition is, that the sound shall be 
conducted to the auditory nerve through the channel which we have been above 
anatomizing, the outward ear, the tympanum, and the ossicles. If by any means 
whatever the transmission of the air-waves to the tympanum and the vibration 
of the latter be prevented, every sound which, being conducted by the ossicles, 
reaches the auditory nerve with sufficient force, seems to us to originate within 
ourselves. This is most readily and strikingly shown by immersion in water. 
According to the researches of one of our most ingenious physiologists, the tym- 
panum under water only so long conveys the waves of sound, or propagates their 
oscillations to the labyrinth, as the external passage of the ear is filled with air ; 
if it be filled with water, so that the outer surface of the tympanum is bathed by 
it, the transmission of waves of sound takes place only through the ossicles or 
movable bones ; but with considerable intensity, since the bones, though as solid 
bodies they take up with difficulty sound-producing undulations of the air, take 
up with facility sound-producing undulations of the water. If now, while one 
is immersed, a sound under water be caused by another person, as, for instance, 
by striking two stones together, this sound, so long as the auditory canal con- 
tains air, will be ascribed to an external source, and its direction be correctly 
determined ; but so soon as the passages of the external ear are filled with water, 
the sound, from whatever direction it may proceed, will seem to originate within 
the head. The experiment may be variously modified ; and since in the form 
just described it is somewhat inconvenient, the following method may be resorted 
to : let the inquirer modulate his voice to a tune, and while continuing to do so, 
suddenly close both ears firmly with his hands ; immediately an entirely difierent 
sensation will ensue, the tone of his own voice, which, with the ears open sounded 
as if from without, will on the instant of the closure seem to arise from within. 
Since it cannot, then, be doubted that the vibrations of the tympanum in some 
manner determine the objectivity of our impressions of hearing, it is worth in- 
quiring what part that instrumentality plays. The most probable conjecture is 
the following : the tympanum is very richly provided with nerves of feeling, 
which, like the nerves of touch of the rest of the surface of the body, are adapted 
to sensations of touch and of common feeling ; these nerves are thrown into ex- 
citation when the tympanum vibrates, and generate a sensation of touch, of the 
quality of which we are not specially conscious, because it is, as it were, dulled 
by the sensation of hearing which constantly accompanies it, but which, like 
every impression on the skin, is associated with the idea of an external object as 
the exciting cause. As we refer this idea obtained through the nerves of touch 
to the simultaneous auditory sensation, and, indeed, falsely identify it therewith, 
we arrive at a perception of the objectivity of the source of sound, without being 
aware of the circuitous manner in which we acquire it. Here is again an ex- 
ample how one sense comes to the aid of another, how two perceptions of sense 



172 



ON THE SENSES. 



interlink witli one another, in order to make one or tlie other intelligible ; this 
important help does the sense of touch, in community with the "muscular sense," 
afford to the sense of hearing, inasmuch as they inform us of the direction in 
which lies the external source of sound. In the first place, the sensibility of 
the tympanum, just alluded to, furnishes us the ready means of deciding on which 
side of us the source of sound is situated, since we naturally seek it on the side 
of that ear whose tympanum, being more strongly agitated by the wave of sound, 
communicates to us a more intense sensation of touch. The muscles which 
move our head convey to us, through the sensations continually connected with 
their action, accurate ideas of the position of that part of our frame, and conse- 
quently of both our organs of hearing, so that we are conscious of the position 
in space of the more strongly vibrating tympanum. If the difference of these 
sensations of the tympanum is not sufficiently distinguishable to afford a certain 
judgment, we turn the head on the cervical axis hither and thither until the 
sensations of touch and hearing acquire greatest intensity in one of the ears, and 
then present this ear, whose position the muscular feeling teaches us, in a right 
line to the source of sound, for we know by experience that in this way a given 
sound is most distinctly heard. If the sensations be equally strong in both ears, 
we have no alternative but to seek the intonating body directly before or behind 
us. Most probably, in discerning whether it is before or behind, above or below 
us, we are guided by another class of sensations of touch, that, namely, which 
results from the action of the air- waves on the cartilaginous outer ear or auricle. 
There are simple experiments which show that this member materially assists 
in the discernment of the direction from which sounds proceed. If we press 
both auricles closely to the head, we lose the power of discerning with certainty 
whether the source is before or behind, deceive ourselves easily, and, if the ob- 
ject is before, seek it behind us. If we firmly compress the auricles, and, more- 
over, place our hands flat in front of both organs so that they shall stand like 
the auricles, only on the wrong side, we regularly confound before and behind, 
on an impartial examination of the impressions received. But for those who 
would repeat these experiments we must add that prepossession in such trials ig 
not easily avoided ; we must eliminate with the utmost care all possible tokens, 
from which, by the help of the other senses or from experience, we might form 
a judgment of the position of the object. It is not easy to explain with certainty 
in what manner the auricle, through its perceptions of touch, leads to a deter- 
mination of the direction of sounds ; but it cannot be doubted that, as regards 
this function of the organ, we gradually learn to associate the different qualities 
of the sensations, which is the necessary result of the impact of differently 
directed waves on different parts of the auricle, with determinate ideas of place, 
just as we gradually learn by experience to form a correct judgment in respect 
to all the impressions received through our widely organized sense of touch. 

The faculty of estimating the remoteness of a source of sound is also one 
which we acquire through the indirect process of experience. In many cases it 
is the sense of sight which enables us to form a judgment of the distance of the 
object which generates the sound. If we do not see that object, the judgment 
is only then in some degree exact when it relates to definite sounds or noises of 
which we have had sufficient experience to be able to estimate the diminution 
of intensity with the increasing distance. Thus is faithfully inculcated upon 
our memory the intensity of the impression of a human voice in ordinary speech 
or loud calling, in immediate proximity and at all distances ; hence it is that we 
are capable of estimating with considerable correctness the remoteness of an in- 
dividual from the intensity with which his voice reaches us. Various circum- 
stances, such, for instance, as a strong wind opposite in direction to the sound, 
may, indeed, render our judgment uncertain ; yet in this case also we possess to a 
certain degree experiences respecting the influence of such circumstances, which 
serve at least for an approximately correct estimate of intervening distances. 



THE SENSE OF SIGHT. 3 73 

We hope to have conveyed to the reader of the above sketch, in as intelligible 
a form a? possible, what is correctly known of the mechanism and action of our 
organ of hearing. At least, let not the inquirer who turns away unsatisfied from 
these pages impute it as a fault to the author that he has, so often and upon so 
many important points, been obliged to accuse science of ignorance. It is, on 
the whole, well for us whose lives are dedicated to such pursuits that science 
still hides under a thick veil so many precious treasures to reward the assiduous 
research and penetration of future explorers. 



v.— THE SENSE OF SIGHT. 

When his corporeal mechanism was giving way and refused further service to 
the exalted genius of our greatest poet, its last effort in obedience to the parting 
spirit was the cry : '' Light ! more light I " These words are ambiguous and 
have been differently interpreted ; their sense, however, lies more on the surface 
than that which has been often assigned to them. There was here nothing 
mystical ; no solemn decoration thrown around the close of a glorious life. It 
was the failing sight — the death of the most precious sense — which, pressing upon 
the yet lingering consciousness, called forth the wish implied in the expressions 
we have quoted. To thousands and thousands of the ordinary dwellers upon 
earth must the hour of death have brought the same mournful perception of 
withdrawing sensibility, alike whether they were still able to express it in words, 
or whether the organs of speech no longer obeyed the impulse, or the impulse 
itself were wanting ; alike in whatever form, whatever words, the soul made 
known its last impressions. The simple expression, so often heard, "It grows 
dark before the eyes," is in its origin and signification wholly identical With the 
dying utterance of Goethe. 

A glance at the physiological conditions of the sense of sight renders the fre- 
quent positive perception of its extinction in the case of the dying fully con- 
ceivable, while that of every other sense takes place for the most part without 
any distinct recognition. No one remarks when the organs of taste and smell 
resign their activity ; few, except under peculiar circumstances, perceive when 
the auditory nerve loses its susceptibility to the impressions of the waves of 
sound which reach its extremities ; and quite as few are conscious when the skin 
surrenders its function of recognizing warmth and pressure; but to most, perhaps 
to all men, whose consciousness is not extinguished before the death of the senses, 
the perception of a darkening of the organ of vision makes itself so urgently 
felt as to arouse the already slumbering consciousness to one last, painful effort, 
and communicates a reaction by the wonted paths to the organs of speech. But 
whence the perogative of this one sense 1 The answer is not far to seek. No 
sense is during our whole life so uninterruptedly active ; on none is the attention 
of the soul so constantly bent; the functions of no other sense supply so habit- 
ually and variously the materials of thought and imagination. So long as we 
are awake the eye conveys to the mind in unbroken succession images upon 
■which it acts, whether the other senses be simultaneously in activity or repose ; 
even while concentrating, for example, with feverish solicitude, our attention on 
the sensations of the ear, no impression of the sight escapes us, however evanes- 
cent may be our consciousness of the perception. While we close our eyes in 
order to think with less distraction — while we slumber and dream — the activity 
of the sense of sight continues amidst our thoughts and dreams, the objective 
perceptions which are wanting being supplied by subjective ones ; nor do we 
lose in dreaming the distinction between darkness and light. What other sense 
can boast of being equally indispensable ? Hours and even days may pass 
without action on the part of the sense of taste or of smell, and without atten- 



174 ON THE SENSES. 

tion being paid to tlie absence of their sensations ; and altbougb we dream of 
scents and of tastes, it is not with the same necessity and constancy with which 
we dream of objects of sight. Even the auditory nerve may long be at rest 
without consciousness on Our part of the stillness, if no sensational momentum 
summons the attention to watchfulness ; nor is it at all di£ferent as regards the 
sense of touch. Hence, because we are accustomed to hold uninterrupted inter- 
course with the outer world by means of the eye, and constantly to derive from 
its perceptions the incentives to thought and action, the perception of a failure 
of the visual power is unavoidable even to the parting consciousness ; hence the 
cry of the poet : " Light ! more light ! " as the eyes with which he had looked 
through nature and the human heart were extinguished in death. The construc- 
tion which I have put on the dying words of Goethe is, I think, clear and con- 
sistent, and I have placed it at the head of this essay for the purpose of impress- 
ing more deeply on the reader the inestimable value of the sense whose nature 
and office it will be the aim of the following pages to explain. 

There is no one probably who has not, at some time or other, propounded to 
himself the question, which of the senses he would be most loath to dispense 
with or to lose. The blind would answer, the sight; the deaf, the hearing; be- 
cause each knows from experience, and is prone to overrate the disadvantages to 
which the loss of either sense subjects him ; but he who, being possessed of all 
the senses, seriously asks of what avail is each to him, will unquestionably con- 
cur in opinion with the blind. No one would in such case think for a moment 
of the sense of smell, nor would the most pampered palate be suffered to prefer 
its pretensions in behalf of that of taste ; rather would we claim an exception 
in favor of the sense of touch. But enough ; the eye is pre-eminently the jewel 
of the organs of sense ! Let us seek to penetrate into its wonderful conformation. 
To lay before the novice an intelligible representation of the office, mechanism, 
and action of the eye, is, it must be confessed, a peculiarly difficult task, more 
difficult than a like undertaking with regard to the ear, for the reason, in part, 
that the learning connected with the proposed discussion is necessarily much 
more comprehensive than that which regards the other organs. In order to 
perform satisfectorily what we propose, it will be necessary to premise a careful 
anatomical analysis of at least the most important parts of the complicated ap- 
paratus of the globe of the eye, as well as the physical doctrine of the nature 
of light; the laws of its propagation, refrangibility, reflection, &c.; the relations 
of the separate parts of the eye to the light should be specially examined, and 
finally the origin of the sensations of light and the modifications of vision are 
to be considered ; the whole to be couched in terms and in a form intelligible to 
the laity. We shall lose no time in a further detail of the difficulties or extent 
of the undertaking, but it is proper to say that no exhaustive discussion of these 
subjects is here contemplated ; we shall be content to have explained to our 
readers v/hat is most essential, and to have imparted correct views of the most 
important particulars. 

The eye fully corresponds in its arrangements and its purpose to the so-called 
camera obscura, an instrument which we may safely assume to be generally 
known, especially in view of its customary employment in the service of photo- 
graphy. This instrument is designed to throw a distinct image of an object 
situated before it upon a surface placed in its background, whether this surface 
be a pellucid plate of glass on which we see the image as if it were painted on 
pa,per, or a sensitive sheet treated with collodion or iodized silver plate, as is 
practiced by photographers and daguerreotypists. In this last case, the image 
is fixed, by the chemical influence of the rays of light which produce the various 
parts of the figure, on the sensitive substance with which the plate is charged; 
how this takes place,^ we need not here explain. 'V7hoever has seen the image 
of a landscape or person on the glass plate of the camera obscura, will re-, 
member that it is distinguished by two circumstances from the object it repre- 



THE SENSE OF SIGHT. 



175 



sents : first, it is considerably smaller than the object; and secondly, it is in- 
verted ; the houses in the landscape stand on their i-oofs, the persons on their 
heads ; whatever in the object is to the right, in the image is to the left, and 
vice versa.^ For the production of this small inverted image, the glass lens 
placed in the anterior opening is employed, serving for the transmission of the 
rays proceeding from the object, but at the same time diverting them from their 
course in such manner that the rays proceeding from each single point of the 
object, which in front of the lens diverged from one another, converge behind 
it, so that at a certain point on the plane of the smooth tablet they again unite. 
This refraction of the rays of light by the glass lens will be rendered more 
clearly intelligible through an explanation of the formation of the image in the 
eye. This organ fully corresponds to such a camera obscura ; imder this aspect, 
then, let us consider its arrangement and the signification of its separate parts 
with the aid of the annexed figure, which represents a horizontal section of the 




Fiff. 1. 



eye made directly through its centre. The eyeball is, in general, of globular 
shape, the optic nerve being inserted, like a handle, somewhat towards the 
side of the nose. The outer wall of the globe is, with a partial exception, 
formed of a hard opaque white tunic S, called the sclerotic, (the white of the 
eye,) which answers to the wooden wall of the camera obscura, and serves as a 
solid protective covering. On its inner side lies a second tunic or coat, the 
choroid, which is extremely rich in blood-vessels, and is of a dark-brown or 
chocolate color ; it is composed of three layers, the inmost of which consists of 
small cells, loaded with minute pigmentary granules, and so arranged with re- 
gard to one another as to resemble a tesselated pavement. The design of this 
dark coloring is the same with that of the black coat with which the inner wall 
of the camera obscura, as well as of the telescope or microscope, is furnished, 
namely: to prevent the dispersion of the rays of light and consequent disturb- 
ance of the perceptions of sight, as will be hereafter explained. 

On the front surface of the eyeball we see, as it were inserted into the 
sclerotic, the transparent cornea H, arched in the manner of a watch-crystal ; 
this forms the foremost part of the wall of the eye, and is distinguished from 
the rest of the integument by its transparency and greater curvature. Behind 
the cornea, like the dial-plate behind the watch-crystal, lies a brown or blue or 
gray-tinted membrane, the iris R, with a circular opening in its middle, the 
pupil P. The iris is, in effect, only the forward part of the choroid. The in- 
terval between the hinder surface of the cornea and the front surface of the iris 
is the "anterior chamber" of the eye, filled "with a fluid called the aqueous 
humor. Behind the iris, and contiguous to its hinder surface, is the crystal- 
line lens K, a lenticular highly transparent body, which turns its front and 
less curved surface to the cornea, its hinder and more convex surface to 
the background of the eye. The interval between this lens and the rear of the 
eye is filled with a perfectly transparent, albuminous fluid, of the consistence 
of thin jelly, called the vitreous body. These cursorily described parts — the 
coi-nea, the aqueous humor, the pupil, the crystalline lens, and the vitreous body 



176 ON THE SENSES. 

— form tlie different mediums tlirougli whicli are transmitted the rays of light 
proceeding from external objects to the retina. This last is a sensitive mem- 
brane which lines the background of the eye, and upon it the rays, after under- 
going refraction in their passage through the mediums just mentioned, again 
unite to form an image .of the object from which they issued. The convex 
cornea and the crystalline lens together correspond to the glass lens in the front 
opening of the camera obscura. The iris represents a blind or curtain which 
intercepts all the rays which enter through the lateral parts of the cornea and 
for ceitain reasons would disturb the formation of a distinct image, so that only 
the rays transmitted through the central opening of the cornea — the pupil — are 
permitted to penetrate to the background of the eye. The pupil, an incon- 
spicuous opening, often scarcely a line in width, is the window through which 
we observe the world, or, rather, through which the world penetrates to us, since, 
through this aperture, everything emitting light, from the inconceivably remote 
t.i the nearest and most minxTte, if it falls within the sphere of vision, throws a 
part, if but a small part of its rays on the delicate organ whose office it is to 
convert them into perceptions of light and color and of the locdl relations of 
visible things. Hapless is he for whom this small window is closed, for whom 
the transparent lens is clouded ; he is indeed despoiled of his most precious 
heritage. 

The retina, an extremely delicate, almost transparent membrane, which, as 
the figure shows, is concentrically outspread upon the inner surface of the cho- 
roid nearly as far as the edge of the lens, and which thus, lines the cavity filled 
with the vitreous body, is nothing else than the flattened extension of the end 
of the optic nerve J but of how wonderfully compounded a structure, of how ad- 
mirable a distribution and stratified arrangement of the separate and delicate 
elements. It is impossible, in a rapid sketch, to convey to the novice a com- 
plete idea of the mechanism of the retina; we shall give, therefoi'e,.but a few 
outlines. The optic nerve O penetrates, with its vast number of closely com- 
pressed filaments, the outer integuments of the eye at the point of entrance, and 
advances to the cavity of the vitreous body ; having reached this, its collectivcf 
fibres bend around on all sides at right angles, and spread themselves in all di- 
rections into a beautiful network of fasciculi or bundles disposed in the plane of 
the retiiia, and reaching as far as the anterior margin of that membrane. Every- 
Vi'here in this course single fibres bend around from this innermost layer of th j 
retina to the external layers, and terminate on the outer surface of the retina in 
rod-like and flask-shaped or conical organizations, which, as the proper terminal 
apparatus of the optic nerve, enable, as will hereafter be seen, the waves of light 
to take effect on its fibres. The external layer of the retina consists of a del- 
icate mosaic of these rods and cones, which are all disposed perpendicularly to 
the surface ; it represents, therefore, a mosaic of the extremities of the optic 
nerve, of which extremities those situated in the part of the retina directly op- 
posite to the pupil are most closely aggregated with one another ; those, on the 
contrary, situated laterally to the former, stand so much the more widely apart 
the nearer their position to the anterior margin of the retina, a fact which we 
shall make use of further on. The retina thus constituted corresponds, as is 
apparent from the foregoing, to the smooth tablet or photographic collodion 
plate in the camera obscura. 

To examine the texture of the rest of the organizations of the eye would 
lead us too far ; one point, however, must not be passed without notice. Every 
one has probably observed, or can at any moment satisfy himself, that the 
pupil, which appears as a round black spot in the middle of the eye, is some- 
times wider, sometimes narrower, according as the sight is exerted in obscurity 
or in light. The iris owes this power of changing the diameter of the pupil to 
certain muscular fibres, microscopically fine, which, at the excitation of the 
nerves leading to them, become shorter in their longitudinal diameter, and are 



THE SENSE OF SIGHT 177 

capable of being thus contracted to one-sixtb of their original length. These 
fibres, similar in their nature to those of which all muscular llesh consists, per- 
tain, in the iris, to two systems having two different directions. The one system 
consists of fibres which surround the pupil in circular lines concentric to its 
margin ; the other of fibres perpendicular to the former, which radiate from the 
margin of the iris to the margin of the pupil. In consequence of this arrange- 
Dicut the operation of the two systems is necessarily as Ibllows : If the marginal 
or circular fibres contract, the circle formed by them becomes smaller, and con- 
sequently the pupil, whose margin is bordered by these circles, narrower; if 
*'. ^ radial fibres contract, they draw the margin of the pupil outwards on every 
^iLle, and therefore widen the pupil. Now it is clear that the narrower the pupil 
the fewer will be the rays of light which can penetrate within the eye to the 
retina. Ihe use of a change m the diameter of the pupil is this : if a great deal 
of light is thrown by very bright objects upon the eye, a part thereof is cut off 
by the narrowing of the pupil, in order that the sensitive retina may not be un- 
duly excited and dazzled ; if we look, on the other hand, at obscure objects, the 
• pupil is widened in order to admit as many rays as possible into the eye, to 
communicate the strongest excitatitm to the retina and produce the m >st vivid 
sensation possible. It is a circumstance of the greatest interest that this regu- 
lation of the intensity of the light arises not through an act of the will, but with 
invariable certainty and proportionality through a reflex mechanism. It is the 
light itself which sets the mechanism in motion with a force corresponding to its 
own strength ; the impression produced by the liglit on the retina and propa- 
gated by the optic nerve to the brain calls forth there an activity which, in a 
reflex manner, is communicated to the muscles of the iris. 

Having thus given a general idea of the structure of the eye, we proceed to 
explain the formation of a small inverted image of the external object on the 
retina. lu the above figure a h represents an arrow placed before the eye, 
which arrow we will imagine to be composed of a number of single luminous 
points arranged one after the other. Such a luminous point is a at one end and 
b at the other end of the arrow. Every such point emits rays of light in all 
directions, so that the space pervaded by these rays represents a globular sphere, 
of which the luminous point is the centre. If the eye be within this sphere, a 
small segment of it, that is to say, a small pencil of rays, penetrates into the 
eye, namely, those rays which fall within the circle of the pupil, while the rest 
are intercepted by the opaque parts of the eye. In the figure the diverging, 
dotted lines proceeding from a, and those formed of small strokes proceeding 
from h, show the limits of the pencil of rays (in transverse section) which are 
capable of entering through the pupil into the eye. Now, we have already men- 
tioned that the crystalline lens and cornea together refract the incident rays 
from their course in such a manner that they cause the rays which, in front of 
them, were divergent, to approach one another in their rear, so as to unite again 
at a point situated behind the lens. How and by what laws this refraction takes 
place we cannot stop to explain. For simplification let it be supposed that the 
refraction of the rays is only produced by the lens ; the figure will then show 
the rays proceeding from a as united behind the lens at a', and those proceeding 
from h at h' ; a' is therefore the image of the point a, as // is of Z». Between d 
and h' lie the images of all the luminous points of the object between a and h ; 

a' h' then is the image of a h. The figure shows further, first, that the 

image is smaller than the object; and secondly, that it is inverted. In the ex- 
ternal arrow, a lies to the left, the corresponding image a' to the right ; h lies to 
the right, h' to the left; the relative- position of all the intermediate points be- 
tween a' and V will therefore be the same. In this way there is formed on the 
background of the eye a small inverted image of every external object from 
which rays pass into that organ, as a similar image is traced on the blank tablet 
of the camera obscura The experimental verification of these facts is not dif- 
12 s GG 



178 ON THE SENSES. 

ficult. If the eye of some animal be extracted, and botli tunics, the sclerotic 
and choroid, be carefully detached from its posterior hemisphere so that the 
retina may be seen, the delicate image of any bright object presented to the eye 
may readily be observed on that membrane. An ingenious method has, more- 
over, been devised, by means of which we are enabled to see in the living eye 
the image of a candle-flame, for instance, thrown upon the retina. The in- 
strument by which this is efPected has been called " the eye-mirror," ( Augen- 
spiegel) ■ to discuss its principle would detain us too long, but its operation is 
briefly this: the rays of light thrown back from the retina of the observed eye 
and returning in the same route by which they entered, again unite in the lu- 
minous point from which they proceeded, whence they are reflected, by the 
mirror, on the eye of the observer. 

If we observe on the glass tablet of the camera obscura the images of objects 
situated at different distances from it, we perceive that only the objects which 
lie at some definite distance throw upon the tablet sharp and distinct images, 
while the images of objects either nearer or more remote have a confused and 
faded appearance. If we change the distance between the glass tablet and the 
lens, or, in other words, shove the lens forwards and backwards, the objects 
which were at first distinct will become obscure, while the nearer or more remote 
objects become alternately distinct. In a word, only the images of objects lying 
at a determinate distance from the lens can be at any one time distinct and well 
defined ; hence the photographer, in order to obtain an exact likeness of a per- 
son in front of the camera, must bring the glass tablet or the sensitive collodion 
plate, introduced in its stead, accurately into the plane on which falls a sliarp 
image of the object. This proceeding is grounded on the following physical 
facts : If we imagine a luminous point situated at some given distance before a 
transparent lens, such as is used in the camera obscura, the rays proceeding 
from that point and striking the lens 'unite behind the latter at a definite dis- 
tance ; now, if we bring the objective point nearer to the lens, the point of union 
of its rays will be changed, and, consequently, the position of its image, which 
will be thrown farther back beyond the lens ; if, on the contrary, we remove 
the objective point to a greater distance from the lens, the position of its image 
will be moved forward and nearer to the lens ; if this objective point lies at an 
immense distance from the lens, like the sun, the position of its image falls upon 
what is called the focus or burning point of the lens ; if the objective point, on 
the other hand, be placed in the anterior focus of the lens, the position of its 
image will lie at an infinite distance behind the lens — that is to say, beyond the lens 
the rays proceed in a parallel direction. Let us suppose now three objective points, 
abc, placed simultaneously before the lens L at definite distances in a right line one 
after another ; then the corresponding positions of their images a' b' c' will also lie 
behind the lens in a right line one after the other, but by no means at a distance from 
one another corresponding with that of the objective points ; the latter, for instance, 
may be respectively ten, twenty, and thirty feet distant from the lens, the former 
perhaps only some lines apart. If we suppose that the blank tablet G which in- 
tercepts the image occupies the place at which the image of the middle object 
b' is formed this image will be distinctly defined, while the images of the nearer 



Fig. 2. 




THE SENSE OF SIGHT 179 

and more remote objective points will appear faded and indistinct, for the 
glass tablet is struck by the rays of the nearer object c before their union at the 
point c' by the rays of the more distant object a, after their union at the point 
a' , and consequently in both cases by rays diverging from one another. If we 
move the tablet forward to a' the images of h and c fall within so-called circles of 
dispersion, since the rays from both unite at a point behind the tablet. What 
is here said of a single objective point holds good likewise for larger objects, 
which are to be considered as composed of a great number of points lying near 
one another. Wholly conformable to this is the process in the eye : the images 
of several objects at different distances, simultaneously projected on the retina 
by the cornea and crystalline lens, fall also behind one another, so that only one 
of them can be in the plane of the retina, while the others fall either bef)re or 
behind it, and thus present only the dim images of the dispersion circles. A 
simple experiment shows this : if we close the left eye and hold before the right 
at a certain distance a finger so that this finger shall be in a line with a remoter 
object lying behind it, the window for instance of an opposite house, and then 
fixedly regard now the finger and now the distant window, it will result that 
whenever Ave thus regard the finger the window will appear indistinctly, with 
dim outlines, and the finger indistinctly when we fix our attention on the win- 
dow. Still more evident is the following experiment : Pierce with a needle two 
small openings in a card near one another, hold the openings as closely as pos- 
sible before the pupil of one eye, while the other eye is closed, and observe 
through the openings alternately one and the other of two pins set up in front 
of the eye at some distance from one another; the more distant pin will now 
appear indistinct and double when the nearer one is atteutividy regarded, and 
vice versa ; the pin to which the sight is directed appearing always wi^ll defined 
and single. The double image of the indistinct pin arises simply from this, that 
two separate pencils of rays proceed from it through the two apertures of the 
card into the eye and strike the retina, which is occupied with the pin to which 
attention is directed, either before their union at a single point or after it in two 
separate places. The eye-mirror shows in the most direct manner the different 
distinctness of the images formed on the retina by objects at different distances. 
From the foregoing experiments we learn, first, that two objects at different 
distances cannot be seen distinctly at the same time, and secondly, that we have 
the power to see at will either the nearer or more remote object with distinctness ; 
in other words, that we have the power to adjust our eye to different distances, 
so that distinct images of objects unequally remote may ftiU just on the plane 
of the retina. This power has received the name of the faculty of ocular ac- 
commodation, and the alteration in question, which we execute for the adjust- 
ment of the eye to different distances, is termed accommodation or adaption. 
This faculty of accommodation is not unlimited; no eye is capable of being 
adjusted to all possible distances from the most immediate proxim-ity to infinite 
remoteness ; objects which are too near appear indistinct to all eyes in spite of 
every effort of accommodation, as do objects removed beyond a certain distance 
to most eyes; in other words, the images of objects which are too near fiill, in 
the case of every eye, behind the plane of the retina, the images of objects too 
remote are formed in front of the retina. The limits within which accommoda- 
tion is possible are very different in different persons; and in the same person 
may in the course of time be impaired or lost. Short-sighted persons are those 
to whose eyes objects may be brought very close without becoming indistinct, 
while remote objects are obscure; fiir-sighted persons, on the other hand, are 
those who see clearly very distant objects, and to whom near ones become dim 
at a relatively considerable distance. Between the normal eye and the object 
about eight inches may intervene without indistinctness of vision f the near 
sighted see clearly at four inches and even less. Constant occupation with ob- 
jects which require close inspection produces shortness of sight; the contrary 



180 ON THE SENSES 

effect results from habitual occupation witli remote objects ; hence we find stu- 
dents, engravers, &c , almost always short-sighted; huntsmen, on the other 
hand, far-sighted ; in old age usually every eye loses more or less its capacity 
of seeing objects which are close at hand. We will now consider in what ac- 
commodation consists, and the mechanism by which it is. produced. 

We have seen in the camera obscura two means of adjustment working to the 
same end, the forward and backward movement of either the glass lens or the 
black glass tablet. For the employment of these means in the eye it is neces- 
sary either that the screen of the retina which intercepts the image should be 
movable in the direction of lhe crystalline lens, or that the lens should be capa- 
ble of movement forwards and backwards as i-egards the retina; forwards in the 
case of near- sight, that the image which would otherwise fall too far behind the 
retina might be brought forward to the plane of the latter ; backwards in the 
case of far-sight, that the image now formed in front of the retina might be 
thrown back upon its plane. In the eye the displacement of the retina alone is. 
impossible; it cannot leave the choroid which lies behind it, nor can an appara- 
tus for such a purpose be easily imagined. Mediately, indeed, through a change 
of form of the whole globe of the eye, the distance of the posterior layer of the 
retina, which more directly serves for distinct vision, might be changed as regards 
the lens — that is to say, might be increased by such a lateral compression of the 
eye that its diameter from before backwards would be augmented at the expense 
of the transverse diameter, or be diminished by a contraction acting from front 
to rear. This somewhat rude mechanism of accommodation had, in fact, many 
advocates in earlier times, who asserted that the compression in question was 
effected through the small muscles which surround the eye and execute the 
movements of the ball. This view, nevertheless, must be regarded as wholly 
untenable, and was indeed contradicted by many insurmountable objections even 
before the true mechanism of accommodation had been discovered. The second 
of the above-named means, the movement of the crystalline lens, was accepted 
by others, though no direct proof of it could be adduced nor an answer given 
to the question how the fluids before and behind the lens could yield to the dis- 
placement — without a possibility, in short, of pointing out any mechanism by which 
this displacement could be accomplished. At present we know with certainty 
that in the act of accommodation the lens does not change its place. It follows, 
therefore, that tlie adjustment of the eye must take place in a different manner 
from that of the camera obscura. And in fact a third means remains through 
Avhich the shifting of the image delineated by a lens may be brought about, a 
means not indeed applicable to our artificial inflexible glass lenses, but capable 
of adaptation to the elastic and organized lens of the eye. This means is a 
change in the form of the lens. The physical facts on which this kind of ac- 
commodation rests are briefly the following : a lens refracts rays of light more 
strongly the greater the curvature of its surfaces; if we have therefore a 
slightly curved and a greatly curved lens formed of the same glass, and an ob- 
ject at a definite and constant distance, the first lens refracts the rays proceed- 
ing from this object less than the last lens ; the consequence is that the more 
strongly refracted rays unite sooner than the rays more weakly refracted ; hence 
the point of union, that is, the image of the object, lies in the case of the strongly 
curved lens nearer behind it than in the case of the weakly curved lens. Thus, 
if we conceive an object so near the eye that its image with a given distance be- 
tween the crystalline lens and retina falls behind the plane of the latter, this 
image will be made to move forward so soon as the surfaces of the lens assume 
a greater curvature, since the convergence of the rays proceeding from the lens 
into the vitreous body will be greater. Now this actually takes place in the eye. 
The eye at rest is adjusted to objects at a certain distance — that is to say, main- 
tains habitually such a curvature that the images of objects at some degree of 
lemoteness fall upon the retina; would we observe objects moi-e closely, the 



THE SENSE OF SIGHT. 181 

crystalline lens assumes <a greater curvature, a curvature so much the stronger in 
proportion as the object is nearer, the magnitude of the curvature being in every 
case such as to bring the image which falls too far behind tin; retina just into 
the plane of that membrane. The correctness of this statement is ingeniously 
shown by means which wc must be content very briefly to indicate. The sur- 
faces of the transparent structures of the eye, the cornea as well as the lens, do 
not permit the passage of all the light which foils upon them ; a part of it is 
thrown back or reflected; hence if a luminous object is before them, they form a 
reflex image of it, an image which, from physical laws not necessary to be here 
dwelt upon, is an exceedingly small one. Further, this little image traced on 
the outer convex surfaces of the cornea and lens stands upright like the object, 
and seems to lie behind the reflecting surface, while that of the concave surface 
behind the lens is inverted and occupies a position before it. The little im^ge 
of the cornea is easily perceived ; the lustrous appearance of the eye consists 
indeed in the light thus reflected. If we hold a candle flame near our head and 
observe the eye of another person, we shall readily perceive on its cornea the 
small sharply deflned image of the flame. The images cf both surfaces of the 
leus are seen with more difficulty because they are fainter and are also somewhat 
eclipsed by the brighter image of the cornea; besides that only a small portion 
of the reflecting surface is accessible to view through the pupil. Now, it is well 
known that the reflex image of a curved surface changes in magnitude and position 
according as the form of the surfoce is changed, as its curvature is either increased 
or diminished. On this fact rests the experimental proof of the change of form of 
the crystalline lens in the act of looking at near and at distant objects. iJy means 
of a peculiar telescope adapted to the most exact measurement, the change in 
position and size of the reflex image traced on the front surface of the lens may 
be accurately ascertained if the observed eye be alternately fixed on a far and 
near object at a measured distance without any change of its own position ; from 
these measurements again has been calculated the magnitude of the variation of 
curvature which the surface in question undergoes in the action of accommoda- 
tion. That the front surface of the lens becomes more strongly curved when 
viewing a near object, may be seen even without an instrument, if the eye be 
observed in profile; the pupil will then be seen to project further beyond the 
edge of the cornea ; it must be understood, however, that the eye which is ob- 
served shall not in the least change its place in transferring its contemplation 
from the remote to the near object. 

After having so far considered the eye as aa optical instrument, a camera oh- 
scura, explained the origin of small inverted images of outward objects on its 
retina, and shown the means by which well defined images of objects at all dis- 
tances are brought into the plane of this sensitive membrane, let us turn our 
attention to the proper physiological part of the problem, the explanation of sight 
itself. The existence of the image on the rerina is not vision ; the soul sits not 
in the retina, nor receives into itself this image as such Avithout further elabora- 
tion ; there is no second interior eye through which it observes the small pictures 
of the retina, as with our visual organ we observe the images of the camera obscura. 
Between the image and the pf^rception of it there still lies a whole series of pro- 
cesses through which the image operates indirectly on the sensorium, so as to ex- 
cite sensations of light and color and lead t- a recognition of the local relations 
of external objects. The rays of light, united for the formation of the image, act 
first on certain appaiatus of the retina ; this apparatus acts in turn on the fibres 
of the optic nerve, in which are thus set in motion the mysterious couriers known 
as '' nervous currents ;" these currents flow to the brain, and take effect there on 
other apparatus, which stands in the m^re immediate service of the soul, and 
from whose activity the latter derives sensations and ideas. If we would explain 
this succession of incidents, we must begin with the first member of the series. 
What, then, is light ? What is a ray of light which, through air or glass, pro- 



182 ON THE SENSES. 

ceeds from a distant object to the eye, and is propagated througli the cornea, lens, 
and vitreous body to the retina ? It is difficult usually for the laity, without 
some general previous instruction in physics, to acquire a correct idea of the 
nature of light, to disengage themselves from the deeply rooted but false notions 
which from childhood onwards are intimately interwoven with the idea of the 
luminous element. The sole property of light recognized by the uninformed, 
as manifested by different colors, is no property at all of light, but, as we 
have explained in an earlier part of these articles^is a, property of the sensation 
which light awakens, and which has nothing iu common with the external exciting- 
cause Wi;hout the optic nerve light is still present, but it excites no sensation, 
imparts no color ; this paradox I hope in the following paragraph to unriddle. 
Light is a movement, the movement, proceeding from its point of excitation, of 
an ever present and all pervading ether, as it is called, which we must imagine to 
be composed of countless, infinitely small, inert particles. These particles are 
thrown into vibrations, which are propagated in the form of waves from par- 
ticle to particle ; such is the nature of light. Luminous bodies, like the sun, con- 
stantly set the suiTOunding particles of the ether in motion, and these propagate 
their motions from one to another en every side. Everywhere these ethereal 
undulations impinge upon matter ; through a part of this matter, which we term 
transparent, they pass with more or less obstruction, the motion being transmitted 
to the particles of the ether contained in such bodies ; through another part of 
matter, untransparent or opaque bodies, they are unable to penetrate, and are 
either absorbed or reflected as are the waves of sound from solid bodies, being 
thrown back in the lalter case like the waves of the sea from its shores. If the 
ethereal waves pass from thinner into denser matter, for instance from the air into 
glass or Avater, or inversely from a denser into a thinner medium, they pursue 
tlieir course undisturbed when they strike perpendicularly the surface of the 
second medium, but, on the other hand, are diverted or refracted from their first 
direction when they strike that surface at an oblique angle, and in a greater or 
less degree according to the difference of density of the two mediums. A further 
discussion of these principles of physics respecting the nature of light is here 
impossible ; of one of the most interesting facts in this connection, the different 
kinds, namely, of undulatory movement of the luminous ether dependent on the 
velocity of the waves, we shall have occasion hereafter to speak more at large. 
It is these undulations, then, of an inert, matter-penetrating ether, which, 
proceeding from luminous bodies to our eye, throw the particles of the ether 
already there into vibration, and are thus finally propagated to the retina. To 
transform these vibrations into a sensation of light, no apparatus less com- 
plicated is requisite than to convert an electrical current into a telegraphic de- 
spatch, Avhich has as little in common with the generating current as the sensa- 
tion of light with the exciting undulations. The sensation to which alone light 
and color pertain as properties is a v/holly specific effect of these waves, which 
they can only produce by help of the apparatus of the retina and optic nerve, 
and of cerlain parts of the brain; if they strike upon wood or metal, the latter 
become simply expanded, and this expansion bears as much relation to a sensa- 
tion of light as a telegraphic despatch to an explosion of powder, both of which 
may be produced by the electric current. Hence we must further inquire, what 
becomes of the ethereal undulations in the retina; how do they operate upon the 
elements of that membrane and the fibres of the optic nerve which' proceed from 
it, in order finally to be converted into a sensation of light? Unfortunately very 
little is known of the chain of processes in question ; respecting some links of 
it we have obscure intimations; respecting others not even so much. In the 
first place it is certain that the wave is not propagated as such in the optic nerve 
to the brain, but that in the retina it is converted into that movement of the 
contents of the nerve molecules which, in our introduction, we designated as a 
nervous current, and therefore into a movement of a wholly different nature; as 



THE SENSE OF SIGHT. 183 

difforcnt, indeecl, a? i? tlio electric movement wliicli we excite by friction from 
the friction itself. How tliis conversion in the retinn is brought about we know 
not ; we can only suppose as a possibility that the waves of the ether produce, 
ill a part of the structure of the retina, a chemical decomposition, and that 
through this chemical decomposition a chemical irritant is generated which ex- 
cites the current in the nerve-hbres. For this conjecture nothing further can be 
alleged than that the undulations of light are well known to produce chemical 
decompositions, of which the blackening of the silver combination in the sensi- 
tive collodion plate of the photographer is an obvious example, and that certain 
chem cal agents are capable of exciting all the nerves. Or it might be con- 
ceived that in some Avay, perhaps, electricity is excited in the retina by means 
of the undulations, and that this serves as an irritant for the nerves, for which 
that agent is in general the most potent of stimulants. That electricity excites 
the optic nerve is a well known fact ; if we pass an electric discharge through 
the eye, a bright flash is instantly perceived. Finally, it might even be sup- 
posed that the ether-waves produced an "expansion of some structure, and that 
this mechanically excited th(> nerves through the consequent pressure. In short, 
many instrumentalities are conceivable, but none is previously susceptible of 
proof, nor can one perhaps be considered more probable than another. Only 
one important discovery has the present age, with all its acknowledged progress, 
disclosed to us ; we know the place of the retina in which the conversion in 
question is effected; we know the apparatus which is charged with effecting 
this conversion. It is not the fibres of the optic nerve running on the inner 
sice of the retina, parallel to its surface, which are directly excited by the un- 
dulations, though it is upon these that the undulations first strike, before they 
adrance to other elementary portions of the membrane ; on the contrary, we 
know with entire certainty that the waves pass, without resulting effect, not 
only by these fibres of the optic nerve, but by the layers of the retina lying 
r,ext behind them, until the_y have reached the external or hindermost layer 
bordering immediately on the choroid ; their specific effect is therefore first ex- 
erted on the so-called columnar layer with its rod-like and cone-shaped organ- 
izations. Here the conversion takes place; the rods and cones are the apparatus 
on which the ether-waves in some manner operate; which apparatus next 
operates by some nukuowu agency on the nerve-fibres which bend round so as 
tc advance to this deepest layer. It is impossible to render generally intelligible 
tie demonstration of this statement, interesting as it is in the highest degree; 
Ave must confine ourselves to a few cursory indications. That the fibres of the 
o|)tic nerve in the iiitcrual layer of the retina are not directly excited by the 
v.brations of the ethereal particles, follows necessarily from these among other 
f{.cts — that, first, those spaces of the membrane where only nerve-fibres are 
found, namely, at the entrance of the optic nerve, are incapable of vision, to 
winch fact we shall recur in the sequel; and, in the second place, that at that 
p^int of the retina with which we see most distinctly, the space just opposite 
to the pupil, no nerve-fibres exist ; from the impossibility, moreover, of recon- 
ciling tlie local perceptions of the organ, hereafter to be spoken of, with the 
p-oposition that light directly excites the fibres of the optic nerve. While by 
tiiese and other considerations it is placed beyond doubt, that light can as little 
generate a nervous current in the fibres of the optic nerve as in any other nerve- 
fibre, there has been direct proof adduced that it is precisely the r )ds and cones 
before mentioned on which the light operates, that it is through these organiza- 
tions that the excitation is effected. If, in an obscure apartment, we look fixedly 
before us, while we move laterally in a circle before the eyes a burning candle, 
Ave shall perceive after some time that our field of vision becomes faintly illu- 
minated, and in this bright field a dark arborescently ramified figure makes its 
appearance. The same phenomenon occurs if we move to and fro, against the 
bright sky and close before the pupil of the eye, a card pierced with a small 



1S4 ON THE SENSES. 

aperture. This dark ramified figure is nothing else than the net Avork of blood- 
vessels within the retina of our own eye ; hence it lias been called the "choroid 
figure." However incredible it may seem to the laity, that we should tlius per- 
ceive with the eye objects lying on the background of the eye itself, the fact is 
not the less true nor the less capable of explanation. It is the sliadoics of the 
blood-vessels traversing the retina which we see by means of the retina. Why 
they should seem to be outside of the eye — transferred, that is to say, to ex- 
ternal space, like every image of the retina which excites the brain — we shall 
hereafter see. If we employ the second method for the production of the phe- 
nomenon, the explanation will be as follows : the narrow opening of the card 
presents before the eye a luminous point which sends out rays on every side, 
and hence a broad pencil of rays through the pupil into the eye. These rays, 
on account of the close proximity to the eye, are so strongly divergent that 
both cornea and lens cannot render them convergent by refracting them ; they 
arrive, therefore, still divergent at the retina, and illuminate it to a considerable 
extent, exciting, wherever they strike, the sensitive apparatus; hence the bright 
field of vision. Now appear, as stated, the blood-vessels of the retina like dark 
shadows on a bright ground, a proof that the sensitive layer of the membrane, 
on which the light takes efi'ect, must lie behind the blood-vessels, since othei'- 
wise, these shadows could not be perceived. The vessels themselves run in the 
layers lying next behind the nervous or internal layer ; consequently, the 
elements of the retina which enable us to perceive the light and also the shadows 
as an absence of light, must lie still further back. From the degree of disjjlace- 
ment which the shadows of- the vessels undergo through a shifting of the ex- 
ternal source of light, it has been found possible accurately to calculate how far 
the layer in question must lie behind the vessels, and the distance has in effect 
been exactly computed which exists between the vessels whose shadows we see 
and the external or columnar layer of the retina. This is an ingenious and 
striking proof, which we owe to the same distinguished inquirer who first accu- 
rately taught us the structure of the retina, together with the nature and con- 
nection of its elements distributed to different layers. 

If we now proceed a step further in bridging over the chasm between the lu- 
minous wave and the sensation of light, we come to the intermediate member 
which has been spoken of in our previous discussions respecting each of tliB 
other senses — the current, namely, in the excited nerve-fibre, which, having 
been indirectly set in motion by the wave through the co-operation of the rods 
and cones in the columnar layer of the retina, flows through the fibrotis extren- 
ities of the optic nerve in the retina and its remoter channel in the stem of that 
nerve, to the brain. We have so often inferred from the nature of this move- 
ment in the nerve its probable identity in all the nerves ; have in so many ways 
pointed out that this movement in the nerve has nothing at all in common witl 
the external irritant which occasions it — a fact which, of course, holds gooi 
with regard to the current of the optic nerve and the undulatory movement of 
the luminous ether — that we shall spare our readers any unnecessary repetition 
We may also abstain from anything more than a simple allusion to the whollj 
unsolved problem of the further destiny of this current, on its arrival at the 
brain, in the interior apparatus of the excited nerve. We know only that the 
current of the optic nerve takes effect on this extreme cerebral apparatus, con- 
sisting of the bulbous bodies heretofore described, in a peculiar manner, induc- 
ing therein some modification which gives riise in the mind to a sensation of 
light, just as the corresponding modification in the terminal bulbs of the auditory 
nerve produces a sensation of sound. Whether any solution of these seemingly 
impenetrable mysteries is reserved for human ingenuity can only be known to 
future times. 

Before proceeding to treat of this simple sensation of light in its connection 
with objective ideas, we must consider the different qualities of the sensation. 



THE SENSE OF SIGHT. 185 

These qualities are the diiferent sensations of color. "We distinguish white, rod, 
blue, green, yellow light; we speak of white, red, and other colors of ihe ob- 
jects which we sec — that is to say, we confer the special property of the sensa- 
tion which we call color on the external object by which it is generated — with 
the same incorrectness with which we attribute the properties of light in general 
to external objects. Now, what this blue or green, this red or yellow color is, 
can no one say ; we can as little describe the qualities of a sensation of light, as 
the qualities of any impression received through the other senses; and how im- 
possible this is has been sufficiently shown in previous essays. Jleanwhile the 
true image of every sensation of color is indelibly fixed in all memories, so that 
at any moment we can recall the idea of each several quality, or as>ign its ap- 
propriate color to every object which presents itself; bnt no one can specify 
any distinctive sign pertaining to the sensation itself, whether of blue or green ; 
no one knows whether his own perception of blue accords with that of another 
individual. In common life it is customary to speak of a black color, and even 
in science it is sometimes doubted whether black should not be called a color ; 
that is to say, a sensation. In my opinion there is no room for such a doubt. 
Black is nothing but the absence of a perception of light. We call those ob- 
jects black from which no light proceeds to our eye; we perceive them as gaps 
in the illuminated field of vision, being conscious, by virtue of the sense of space 
resident in the retina, of the particles of that membrane which remain in repose 
and unexcited, between those particles which are struck and irritated by the 
light. If we exclude all external light from our eyes, the whole field of vision 
appears black ; we are conscious of the repose of all the particles of the retina. 
But to enter more particularly into the details of this controversy, whether 
black be a sensation or not, would lead us into too longr a digression. 

If we turn our consideration to the external causes of the different sensations 
of color, so indescribable and inexplicable in themselves, we are met by an en- 
tirely conclusive and exact physical theory. The different sensations of color 
stand in relation to their causes in the ;-arae category with tiie scnsat ons of 
sound of a different pitch ; it is iho, frequency of the vibrations of the pnrtic'es of 
the luminous ether, the lengtk of its weaves, by which the quality of the sensa- 
tion is determined ; to each definite color belongs a definite, exactly measured 
length of wave and frequency of vibration, as to every sound of definite pitch be- 
longs a definite number of vibrations of the body Avhich generates it. Physics 
" has demonstrated that the white light of the sun — that is, the vibrations f)f the 
ether proceeding from the sun which taking effect on the retina produce the 
sensation of a white color — is no uncompounded light, but consists of a great 
number of the ethereal vibrations differing in the degrees of their frequency ; it 
has farther taught us to decompose this compound light into its several constit- 
uent parts. If a sunbeam be leceived through the edge of a three-sided prism 
of glass, while this edge, for example, is held before a small round opening in 
an opaque screen upon which the sun shines, there will appear on a surface 
situated behind the screen not a round white spot corresponding to the opening, 
but a long bright stripe in which the different colors of the rainbow follow one 
another in the same order as in the rainbow. One end of this str'pe will be 
occupied by a red portion, followed by an orange, a yellow, a green, a blue, an 
indigo and a violet colored portion in succession, the latter occupying the other 
end of the stripe. Tiie origin of this prismatic stripe consists in this : that 
the waves of different vibratory velocities c; impounded together in the white 
light of the sun, on their way through the edge of the prism, are diverted, each 
in a different degree, from their course, so that those waves in which the ethe- 
real particles vibrate :uost swiftly are most diverted or refracted ; those whose 
particles vibrate most slowly are least refracted ; if we imagine, for example, 
the white solar ray striking horizontally on the prism, all the waves combined 
therein will, when the edge of the prism is directed upwards, be so refracted as 



186 ON THE SENSES 

to pass obliquely downwards to the other side, but the slowest with least, the 
swiftest with most obliquity. It results that the undulations differing in their 
velocity strilse, one after another, on the intercepting screen. The different 
colors of different portions of the stripe proceeds from this : that the Avaves 
reflected from the screen to our eye operate differently on the nervous apparatus 
of the organ according to the velocity of their vibrations, so that each generates 
for itself a definite modification of the nervous current, and every such modifi- 
cation a definite quality of sensation ; that is, of color. The longest waves 
with ihe least vibratory velocity, which reach the eye from the upper end of the 
stripe, and which hence, in the image on the retina, form, through the inversion 
of the image, the lower end of the stripe, so operate on the nerve-exciting appa- 
ratus that the sensation of a red color is the result ; the shortest and swiftest 
waves from the other end of the stripe (which stripe is called the solar spec- 
trum) produce in the same way the sensation of a violet color ; the waves of 
intermediate length and velocity give rise in succession to the above-named in- 
termediate sensations of color. And the same is the case not merely with the 
waves directly disengaged from the sun's light, but with those issuing from 
every visible object. An object appears red when the waves proceeding from 
it are so constituted that each particle of the ether lying in its course executes 
only 439 billions of vibrations in a second of time, while each wave is the 
seventy -thousandth part of a millimetre iu length ; if the wave be only the 
sixty-thousandth part of a millimetre long, while, on the other hand, its parti- 
cles vibrate 697 billion times in a second, the object from which it pro- 
ceeds will appear of a violet color. The observed object is hence neither red 
nor violet ; it only throws the particles of the ether lying between itself and 
our eye into vibrations of definite velocity, according to which they excite in 
our mind, through the medium of the retina and optic nerve, the sensation of 
red or violet. In like manner we erroneously seek the sound we hear in the 
vibrating string, while the string simply vibrates ; the sound first exists in our 
sensation, occasioned by the waves of a definite frequency of vibration proceed- 
ing from the string. It is, in fact, the general error as regards all perceptions 
of the senses that we ascribe the qiiality of the sensation to the exciting exter- 
nal cause ; a necessary error, however, through which our sensations become 
first available for the practical uses of life, as we have repeatedly shown on 
previous occasions. To return to our theme : Each solar ray, which the prism 
decomposed into seven undulatory elements distinguishable by their color, com- 
prises other waves besides the colored ones. In the white solar light there are 
ether waves of yet slower vibration than those which produce the sensation of 
red, and such as are of yet greater vibratory velocity than those which yield a 
violet color. In the spectrum, therefore, formed by the prism, there are waves 
(the longest) which strike beyond the red extremity, as well as others (the 
most frequent) which strike beyond the violet extremity ; but these we do not 
see, although constituted precisely like the rays of color, except as regards the 
difference of length. In other words, only those waves of the ether, the 
number of Avhose vibrations falls within certain limits, (434-697 billions,) 
are capable of so affecting the apparatus of the retina as to produce exci- 
tation of its nerves, and therefore a sensation ; while, on the other hand, 
as well those whose number of vibrations is too small as those whose number 
is too great, are not qualified to excite a sensation. Again a complete analogy 
with the nerves of hearing ! If the vibrations of a string are calculated to ex- 
cite the auditory nerves so as to produce sound, there are equally limits to the 
number of vibrations which must not be transcended ; the string must not os- 
cillate from side to side less than sixteen times, nor more than 64,000 times in 
a second. If it vibrate less often or more frequently, it sounds no longer. But 
how, will the reader ask, can it be known that beyond the visible there are 
present invisible waves of light 'I How can light be recognized which is not 



THE SENSE OF SIGHT. 187 

* 
seen? For tlii.s there arc several excellent means which we will briefly notice. 
In the fir.-it place, all ether waves have the power of giving wartnth — that is to 
say, of exciiiug, when they strike the nerves of touch, the sensation of warmth — 
of causing matter to expand ; in short, of producing all the effects attributable 
to heat. Jn other words, heat and light arc the same, both consisting in the 
vibrations of that elastic medium known as the luminous ether. The power of 
warming is not, however, proper to all vibrations of the ether in an equal de- 
gree ; tlic vibrations which are too slow to excite the nerves of vision, and 
which hence, in the spectrum, fall outside of or beyond the red, possess that 
power in a high degree ; we recognize them by their action upon the apparatus 
for measuring heat. In the second place, the rays of light have the jiower of 
piuducing, by their action on certain substances, chemical decomposition; for 
instance, of rendering black certain combinations of silver. This chemical 
effect pertains in the highest degree to the most rapid vibrations of the ether, 
and therefore to those invisible vibrations which foil beyond the violet ; we 
recognize their presence by their chemical effect. They are to be recognized, 
however, in other ways, being capable, for instance, of becoming visible, with a 
blue color, when, by certain means which we possess, but which we cannot stop 
to explain, their vibrations are rendered slower. Under favorable circumstances, 
indeed, when enabled to operate with great intensity on the eye, they become, 
even without abatement of frequency, directly visible ; that is to say, when they 
take effect very strongly on the optic nerve they are capable of exciting it. 

Such, briefly, is the physical theory of the origin of sensations of color. 
With this are further connected some important physiological considerations. 
We have ])roved at large that light and color exist not externally, but are en- 
tirely qualities of sensation, conditioned by the nature of the optic nerve and 
its perceptive apparatus in the brain. A sensation of light, therefore, may be 
determined not merely by the impact of a wave of the luminous ether on the 
retina, but by any excitation of the optic nerve, of whatever kind it may be, 
provided it strike the extremities of the nerve in the retina or its stem and the 
current be evoked in its fibres. It has been already mentioned in passing that 
the strongest irritant of all nerves, the electric current, produces, Avhen directed 
through the eye, intense perceptions of light, or, to speak more exactly, a bright 
flash at the moment of commencing and ceasing, a radiant yellow and violet 
colored image dining its continuance. Pressure on the nerves of sight or their 
division, sometimes required by morbid degeneration of the eyeball, also pro- 
duces a sensation of light. Even mechanical irritation of the retina induces 
the phenomenon. Every one may recollect from experience that a blow or 
thrust against the eye is attended with an appeai'ance of sparks, but the fact 
may be verified at any miiment by a more commodious experiment. If the e;ye 
be closed and a finger end pressed against the lateral parts of the eyeball, and 
therefore against the sclerotic coat under which lies the retina, a bright circle 
will appear in the darkened field of vision ; not, howevei', at the point of pres- 
sure, but in the opposite part, as, for instance, towards the nose when the pres- 
sure is on the side next the temple, underneath when the pressure is from above. 
We will inquire farther on, why this transposition of the perception should take 
place. To adduce still another example of these luminoias apparitions through 
mechanical irritation of the optic nerve: When from physical affections, spirit- 
uous potations, or morbid excitement a determination of blood to the head takes 
place, fine lummous specks are apt to glimmer before the eyes, the particles of 
which float confusedly in the field of vision, and most distinctly when the sight 
is directed to a bright sby or attention is paid to the phenomenon with the eyes 
closed. This glimmering arises from over fulness of the blood vessels traversing 
the retina itself; the loaded vessels and probably the single corpuscles of the 
blood which permeates them exert a pressure on the elements of the retina lying 
behind them and thereby produce the excitation of the optic ner\e. Once more : 



188 ON THE SENSES. 

Light and color are specific qualities of sensation, tLe result of the activity of 
the nerves, through whatever means that activity is called forth, whether by 
ethereal undulations, electricity, or mechanical agency. But as the nerves of 
touch are destined for excitation by pres.'^ure, heat, and cold, the auditory nerve 
for excitation by the Avaves of sound, and both are arranged with a view to th^* 
impression of these agents alone, so the optic nerve is not designed for mechan- ' 
ical or electrical irritation, but is exclusively destined and contrived for excita- 
tion by the waves of the luminous ether. Hence that wonderfully perfect opti- 
cal apparatus before the retina, which conducts the rays of light and disposes 
them for the formation of exact images ; hence the complicated and as yet im- 
perfectly understood apparatus of the retina irself, by which the vibrations of 
the luminous ether are enabled to transmit their specific excitation to the opt"-^ 
nerve, while for the electric current or far pressure no such enabling apparatus 
has been provided, but both agents must act immediately on the naked fibres of 
each nerve in order to set in motion their respective currents. 

So much for the origin of a simple sensation of light in general and of its 
qualities specifically. In relation to the latter, namely, the colors in which ob- 
served objects appear to us, we must call attention to some highly interesting 
but as regards their nature not wholly explained facts, which are known in part 
to every novice, but often pass without consideration. The same object does 
not always appear to us of the same color; although the waves of light proceed- 
ing from it are the same, the quality of the sensation is in some manner changed 
in conformity with the color of the objects simultaneously perceived in close 
proximity with it. If a red wafer on white paper be attentively observed for 
some time, it will be seen that the paper around the wafer appears no longer of 
a pure white, but assumes a greenish hue and at length a red tint like the wafer 
itself If we look at a white wall through a hole in a gr^en paper it appears at 
first of a reddish color, but afterwards of a greenish hue like the paper. These 
experiments may be varied at pleasure. Eveu black objects, from which no 
light is emitted into the eye, appear on a colored ground not black, but per- 
ceptibly tinted — green, for instance, on a red ground, and green also on a green 
ground. As already intimated, no certain explanation has been given of these 
foicts.* We know only that the red or green color of the white ground around 
a green or red wafer is not objective — that is to say, that light-waves of the 
corresponding velocity do not pass from the paper into our eye, but waves of 
the same compound (white) light, as when we observe the paper alone. Hence 
the color of the paper is subjective — that is to say, it depends on a peculiar 
mode of perception by our own mind. The mind conceives white to be green 
when it appears beside red, to be red when it appears beside green. Red and 
green form for our mental perception contrasted (complementary) colors ; so 
likewise do blue and yellow, &c. In the white light of the paper, as has been 
shown, all colors are contained ; it may well be, therefore, that when we see red 
near white we overlook in the compound white the red ingredient and more 
clearly perceive the complementary color, the green ingredient; single it out in 
some measure from the mixture and substitute it for the objective white, of 
which it is a part. This is the commonly received explanation, but it is not 
full one. It is still more difficult to account for the color:::* which black objects 
assume on a colored ground, for here the question no longer relates to the dif- 
ferent interpretation of the quality of a definite sensation, but to the perception 
of color by the retina, when in fact no light falls on it. Black is no color. 
When we see therefore black objects colored, our perceptive faculty must coii- 
ceivo a sensation of definite quality without any apparent objective cause ; how 
this comes to pass, what, as regards the mind, is the provocative thereto, and 
why the conceptions of color in this case maintain a constant quality in relation 



See article on Subjective or xVccidental Colors. 



THE SENSE OF SIGHT 189 

to the colors of the background is an enigma which it is not at present possi- 
ble fully to solve. 

A second series of interesting facts consists in the so-called secondary images. 
When an impression of light strikes the retina, the sensation thereby generated 
does not vanish instantaneously with the cessation of the impression from 
without, but subsists yet a short time longer. A number of familiar phenomena 
admit of being referred to this fact. When a wheel turu'^ very rapidly we no 
longer distinguish the single spokes — it appears as a full disk ; when we whirl 
a glowing coal rapidly around we do not see the coal gradually advancing as a 
*night point ; it presents a closed circle of light ; that is to say, we see the coal 
simultaneously at all points of its progress. Whence is this ? It results simply 
from the persistence of the impression. The coal produces at each point of its 
course a sensation of light which endures for a moment, while the coal itself has 
already moved forward. If we imagine the coal at the uppermost point of its 
circuit, the sensation generated at this point still endures, that is, we still see 
the coal at this uppermost point, while it has already moved a space further, 
and has generated sensations from the following points, which again continue a 
moment beyond the time of its presence at any given point. With a certain 
velocity of rotation, it will follow that the sensation produced at the first point 
still persists when the coal has performed its whole circuit, again arrived at the 
uppermost point, and there generated the impression anew ; and since the same 
is the case with each successive point, the image presented to our eye is, of 
course, that of a circle of light. The same holds good Avith regard to the re- 
volving wheel. A further interesting example is the folloAving : We have seen 
that white light is compounded of seven colors — those, namely, of the rainbow; 
in other words, a ray of light Avhich generates in the eye the sensation of a 
white color is composed of seven luminous undulations, differing in the vibratory 
velocity of their ethereal particles, each of which undulations, when it strikes 
the eye separately, generates the sensation of a peculiar color. Now, if we take 
a disk, divide its surface from the centre outward into seven compartments, color 
these successively with the tints of the rainbow, and in the same order, the first 
red, the second orange, &c., and then cause the disk to revolve very rapidly, it 
will appear to the eye to be white, or, at least, gray. After what has preceded, the 
explanation is simple. Through the rapid movement of the disk the several 
colored rays strike so quickly one after another upon the portion of the retina 
on which the image is traced, that the impression of the first ray is not yet ex- 
tinct when the remaining six have already struck upon the same sensitive 
points, whence the retina is simultaneously excited by the seven rays, and a 
perception of whiteness is the consequence. From this simple persistence of 
the original impression we should distinguish the secondary images which some- 
times occur in a narrower sense of the word ; phenomena which, like the former, 
are familiar to every one from experience. Wlio has not looked upon the set- 
ting sun, and then perceived the persistent after-images which occupy the field 
of vision wherever the eyes may be turned, and vanish not even when they are 
closed ; which, on the contrary, then appear vividly and arrayed in different 
colors, red, blue, &c., while to the open eye, directed, for instance, towards the 
bright sky, they seem projected as a dark object on the back ground. By at- 
tentive obseivation and some practice many analogous phenomena of great di- 
versity and interest may be observed. We confine our exemplification to an 
easily repeated experiment. If we place a red wafer (or red paper) on a white 
ground and observe it attentively for some time, then suddenly turn the sight 
laterally to the white surface, we shall plainly perceive an after-image of the 
wafer of a green tint, which follows the eye when directed to different parts of 
the back ground. If the object thus fixedly observed be blue, the secondary 
image will be yellow ; in a word, it will be always the so-called contrasted or 
complementary color which presents itself in this image, and always darker 



190 ON THE SENSES. 

than the bright ground on which we observe it. If this ground be coloi'ed, the 
color of the secondary image varies in different ways which we need not spe- 
cially describe ; a blue wafer, for instance, observed on a yellow ground yields, 
when the eye is turned to a white surface, a yellow image of the wafer on a blue 
ground. 

It has already been said that these images display themselves not only to the 
open, but to the closed eye, and with the most surprising alternation of colors 
and brightness, so that, after the observation of some definite object, these re- 
peatedly change, in the secondary image, in a regular series, until, growing- 
weaker and weaker, the image finally disappears. The following is an example 
of this series of appearances, but it should be premised that by most eyes they 
are only perfectly recognized after long practice and familiarity ; but then so 
plainly and readily that the secondary images obtrude themselves among the 
perceptions without particular attention, and often mingle inconveniently and 
anuoyingly with the direct observations of sight. If we observe persistently a 
bright-colored object — for instance, a bright candle flame through red glass — 
and then closing the eye, direct our whole attention to the dark field of vision, 
the secondary images of the red flame will present themselves in the following 
succession : First, the original appearance subsists, like every impression of the 
retina, for a very brief moment ; next, though so evanescent as to be almost 
always overlooked, appears a bright green image of the flame on a dark ground; 
this gives way to a bright red image of the flame, also on a dai-k ground, to 
which succeeds a dark green image on a bright ground ; then again a bright red 
on a dark ground ; again, a dark green on a bright ground ; and this alternation 
proceeds until the whole phenomenon closes with a faint, dark green image on 
a bright ground. Thus secondary images of like color and like relations of 
brightness with the object are interchangeably mingled with those which appear 
in the complementary colors of the object, and in which what was dark in the 
object (the ground) is bright; and, inversely, what was bright (the flame) is 
dark. Secondary images with such inverted relations of brightness are termed 
negative ; those in which these relations are direct are termed positive. Inde- 
scribably gorgeous is the play of colors of these images in the closed eye after 
the contemplation of the sun itself. The positive image appears not white like 
the siin, but assumes, one after the other, the most various and brilliant colors. 
First, it appears of a bright blue with orange- colored border, then blue, violet, 
deep red, with always differently tinted edges. Yet, however beautiful and 
surprising these images of the sun, we should warn every one against a pro- 
tracted observation of that luminary ; the experiment is extremely hazardous 
for the eye ; the dazzling solar light over excites the retina and paralyzes the 
vision ; the images once seen follow the observer with painful pertinacity. The 
most striking attestation to the danger of such observations is found in the fact 
that the inquirer who, with unwearied assiduity, first thoroughly investigated 
these phenomena, soon grew blind, and has not yet fully recovered his sight. 
To many of our readers he is not unknown ; under the name of " Mises " he 
has endowed CTcrman literature with many highly poetical creations; and who- 
ever, among his attractive writings, has met with the touching poem, " Der 
Schwarze Vogel," (The Bird of Gloom,) will read it with double interest when 
he knows that it sprung as a mournful effusion from his heart, when, in conse- 
quence of his experiments, the veil of blindness was falling upon his eyes. We 
renounce any further discussion of the details, as well as an enumeration of the 
differently modified experiments relating to secondary images, and unfortunately 
must, at the same time, renounce the purpose of explaining the nature of the 
phenomenon itself, and the changes which it undergoes under different circum- 
stances. There arc theories upon the subject, but none which are entirely satis- 
factory. So much, indeed, we know, that these images are no dream images, 
but secondary and necessary effects of the activity of the optic nerve and its ter- 



THE SENSE OF SIGHT. 191 

miual apparatus in conformity with natural laws ; mure than this we shall never 
be able to establish until we have succeeded in explaining the nature of that ner- 
vous activity itself. 

We liave thus pursued our subject, so far as it relates to the proximate per- 
formances of our organ of vision, as far as this is at present practicable ; we 
have seen the undulations of the luminoiis ether penetrate through the dioptric 
screen of the eye and the rays of light unite in the surface of the retina into 
images of outward objects; we liave seen, finally, sensations of definite quality 
arise from those etherial undulations, by means of the apparatus of the retina 
and the terminal apparatus of the optic nerve. But these simple sensations are 
by no means visual perceptions, are in themselves no communications to our 
minds from the outer world of its existence and its action ; they are but dead 
letters, which must first be reduced to living speech. As Avith all the rest of 
the senses, so here the naked sensation is but a special accident of our conscious- 
ness, which must undergo farther elaboration, be interpreted by indirect means, 
and connected witli appropriate ideas, before we can realize its inappreciable 
value. Only by our learning to refer the sensation of light to the external 
object which occasions it, thus giving it objectivity, only by our learning to 
associate with the simple sensations ideas of the local relations of external 
objects, is sensation transformed into vision. AVhat would it avail us that every 
object from which a luminous undulation proceeds should cause a sensation 
which might be of red, or green, or other color, according to the length of the 
wave, if this sensation remained a purely subjective feeling, disclosed to us 
nothing respecting the source from which it came ; to what pui-pose the wonder- 
ful arrangements which unite the rays of light on the retina into a faithful 
image of the object whence they proceed, if this image could not. act upon the 
mind in such a way as to make it sensible of the relations of the object in out- 
ward space, its form and magnitude, its position and movement? The laity are 
not generally accustomed to distinguish clearly the sensation from the associated 
idea, and therefore overlook the wide chasm between a sensation of sight and 
seeing. We will attempt to overbridge this chasm as briefly and intelligibly as 
possible ; and we may the better afford to be brief, since we have already treated 
at large, in reference to the sense of touch, of the process by which objectivity 
is conferred on our sensations and of the origin of our local preceptions. 

We transfer every impression of the sight to the outer world, even those 
whose cause exists in the eye itself ; we refer none to our organ of vision ; the 
gleam of fire which strikes the eye, as well as the flash occasioned by an 
electric stream directed through it, seems to us to be outside of the eye. While, 
as regards the sense of touch, we arrive at a perception of the sensitive sur- 
face, and hence of the w-gan on which the impression takes effect, as a gen- 
eral thing we never attain, in the case of the sense of sisrht, a consciousness of 
the perceptive surface of the retina, the organ of this sense; never perceive an 
image formed on that membrane as cause of the sensation we experience. It 
was for science first to investigate and verify the existence of such a surface 
and image ; and notwithstanding this, the physiologist himself is as little capa- 
ble as the novice of transferring his own sensations to the membrane of the 
retina. And why 1 There are circuitous means, already discussed in our doctrine 
of the sense of touch, by which we attain in childhood to the conviction that 
there is space external to ourselves and outward things as opposed to our own per- 
sonality; that these outward things are the causes of those conditions of the 
mind which we call sensations. But while, as regards the sense of touch, we 
are enabled, through the double sensation which arises from the touch of one 
part of the surface by another, to distinguish this surface from outward things, 
no such resource is available as regards the eye, because the means thereto, the 
power of testing the organ of vision with the organ of vision itself, is wanting ; 
we learu to refer the sensations of sight directly and exclusively to the external 



192 ox THE SENSES. 

objects. This mode of interpretation once established, we are thenceforth its 
slaves ; we can never again free ourselves from its influence nor conceive of a 
sensation of light as purely subjective, and without the idea of a causative 
external object to which it is referable. 

Yet this reference of the sensations of light to the outward world is still not 
a complete act of vision ; for this there is further required the perception of the 
local relations of the external things to which we refer the sensations. And 
here the organ of sight offers a complete analogy with the organ of touch. We 
must conceive of our retina as a mosaic of sensitive points, just as our outward 
skin was shown to be ; according to the specific coloring which each of these 
sensitive points imparts to the sensation called forth by it, does the mind recog- 
nize the place in outer space at which it is to seek the object of the sensation. 

In conception the space embraced by the field of view is distributed into just 
so many compartments as the mosaic of the retina comprises points of sensation ; 
if one of the latter be struck by an impression of light, we refer the sensation 
to that compartment of the field of vision which corresponds to the point struck. 
If a series of points of the retina which lie in a right line be struck simulta- 
neously we refer the impressions to those compartments of the ideal mosaic which 
lie in the corresponding right line. If an image of a sphere, of the moon, for in- 
stance, be delineated on the retina, the points of the retina which are struck lie 
in a spherically bounded surface contiguous to one another, and the same is 
the case in the field to which our idea transfers the sensations belonging to the 
several points ; hence it is that in the first case we see a right line ; in the second, 
a sphere. If the retina be simultaneously struck by light at two points separated 
from one another, each of these impressions connects itself with the appropriate 
idea of locality. We see two distinct points of light and comprehend their 
severance from one another, since we are conscious of the mosaic particles of the 
retina remaining unaffected which are situated between the two that are struck ; 
we mentally enumerate these, and from their number form a judgment of the 
intervening distance. If we observe two objects, one after the other, the image 
of the first of Avhich covers four, that of the second eight sensitive points on 
the retina, we estimate the magnitude of each of them and their relative pro- 
portion according to the number of sensitive points which are struck, or rather 
according to the number of the compartments embraced in our ideal field of 
vision, which in both cases we have filled up with our sensations. In this 
manner we arrive at the perception of the form and size of observed objects, 
but always without being conscious of the meditator between the object on the 
one hand and the sensation and idea on the other, the image, namely, on the 
retina with its local relations ; always without attention to the mental operation 
by which we have once laboriously learned to clothe the simple sensations with 
the ideas of form and magnitude. 

, For a clearer explanation of the local perception, we have called to our aid the 
hypothesis that the retina represents a mosaic of sensitive points ; this hypothesis 
it is proper that we shoidd now a liitle more closely examine. Physiology must 
take it for granted that each of the countless minute filaments of the optic nerve, 
which, packed together in its stem, are afterwards dispersed over the retina, there 
terminate in a peculiar apparatus ; that the terminal apparatus of all these fila- 
ments lie, arranged near one another, in the plane of the retina, like the pieces of 
a delicate mosaic work ; and that each apparatus represents in reality a sensitive 
point endued with the nature and properties which we have supposed in our ex- 
planation of the local perceptions of the organ. If this be the case, everything 
is easily explained, and the results of the most recent microscopic investigations 
permit us to conclude with almost entire certainty that the retina is, in fact, such 
, an anatomical mosaic of distinct nerve-ends, that the rod- shaped and conical 
appendages of the nerves in the hindermost layer of the retina form respectively 
just such sensitive points as we have supposed. Let it be assumed, then, that 



THE SENSE OF SIGHT. 193 

every nerve-fibre terminates in a cone, and can, as is really the case, only be 
excited by the light through this organization ; the above explanation may then 
be interpreted as follows : Each cone elaborates the lumiuons wave which strikes 
it into an irritant of the nerve, which sends a cm-rent to the brain, and there 
evokes a pei ception of light. The current is essentially the same in all the nerve 
fibres from the similar constitution of the waves, but it is characterized in each 
fibre by some modification, some nuance, however slight it may be, which defi- 
nitely distinguishes it from the current in all the other fibres ; this modification 
is imparted to it by the appendage in some manner wholly unknown to us. It 
is this modification of the nervous current, and the sen.sation thereby generated, 
which we learn to interpret as a token of the place in the field of vision, to which 
we must assign the perception ; how this is effected has been shown in our remarks 
on the sense of feeling. The shading of the sensation, which an impression 
on the central cones situated opposite to the pupil produces, we have learned to 
connect with the idea that the object to which we refer the sensation lies in the 
middle of the field of vision, and it is from the same specific shading or modi- 
fication of the sensation that we determine the relative position of the other 
points in that field. This brings us to a further interesting fjuestion pertaining 
to this head of our subject. When the novice is informed that all outward objects 
are portrayed on the retina in an inverted position, it seems to him incompre- 
hensible why we should see the objects upright, as they really are, and not 
inverted; indeed, up to the latest times there have been physiologists who, in 
order to clear up this seeming contradiction, have taken great pains to find some 
anatomical or physical mechanism for once more reversing the image of the 
retina. This is wholly unnecessary ; such a mechanism were only to be thought 
of, if we perceived the image as such and its inverted position were capable of 
directly acting upon the sensorium. But that, as we have seen, is not the case. 
Notwithstanding the inversion of the image, the fact that the object is seen up- 
right admits of the most simple and natural explanation, when we accept the 
fact that we connect with the excitation of a sensitive point lying to the left in 
the retina the idea of a cause of the sensation lying to the right in outer space, 
and have learned in like manner to refer the excitation of a point below to an 
object situated above. If Ave consider how ideas of place come to be connected 
with the sensations of sight, we must see that it cannot be otherwise. An ob- 
ject which we see we can at the same time touch, and from the position of our 
organ of touch can determine, in the manner formerly pointed out, the position 
of the object in space. When we know that, in order to reach a point which 
has evoked a sensation, we must move the touching finger in the direction which 
we call to the right, we refer the visual sensation also to the right in outer space, 
unembarrassed by the fact, of which we are wholly unconscious, that the im- 
pression of the light has been received on the left and not on the right of the 
retina. As we formerly saw, it is the appropriate sensations connected Avith 
the movements of our limbs, Avhose surface is sensitive to the touch, from which 
we form a judgment of the direction of the movement and the position of the 
objects touched. Now the eyes also are movable ; their movciiients are con- 
nected Avith the feeling of movement like those of our arm, and this feeling Ave 
learn to interpret and to use for the formation of ideas. We know, if our sense 
of vision has once been educated, that an object lies to the right of us, Avhen, in 
order to perceive it clearly, Ave must turn our eyes to the right — that is to say, 
when the movement of the eye creates a muscular feeling, which Ave have 
learned to recognize as a movement to the right. These muscular feelings 
which accompany the movements of our eye are, in yet another relation, highly 
important auxiliaries to the perceptions of sight, and in a manner wholly 
analogous to the sense of touch. They instruct us respecting the size, form, 
and distance of observed objects and the direction of their movements. Not to 
13 s GG 



194 ON THE SENSES. 

dwell too long on details, we will illustrate tliis by an example. Suppose a 
circular object before us. If it is small, so that we can survey it witb the eye 
unmoved, we at once perceive its form through the sense of relative position ex- 
erted by the retina ; or, in other words, from the circumstance that the points of 
the retina occupied by its image lie in a circular line. But if it is so large that 
we cannot embrace it in one view, we proceed as follows : We so direct our eye 
that first the image of its uppermost point shall fall upon the central point of 
the retina; we then move the eye so that the image of the following point shall 
fall upon the same place, and so on, till one after another the images of all the 
single and successive points of the ring have made their impression upon the 
same sensitive portion of the retina. That in this process the impressed place 
of the retina has remained, the same, we learn from the continuance of the local 
coloring of the sensations; that the object has a circular form, we gather from 
the muscular feelings which have accompanied the movement of the eye, and 
which we have learned to refer to a circular movement. Since these muscular 
feelings inform us also of the magnitude of the movement executed, we form 
therefrom a judgment respecting the size of the observed circle. If we would 
estimate the distance of two observed points from one another, we either enu- 
merate, in the manner heretofore explained, the number of the mosaic elements 
of the retina, which remain unaffected between their images, or we direct ouv 
eyes so that first the image of one point shall strike the middle of the retina, 
and then move the eye so far that the image of the second point shall strike 
upon the same place, and noAv compute the interval between the two from the 
muscular feeling which attended the executed movement and which assists us 
to form an idea of their direction, size, &c. 

We might draw out these remarks to greater length, and initiate our reader, 
if he had the patience longer to accompany us, still more deeply in the mys- 
teries of the eye ; but we limit ourselves to what has been said, because it has 
seemed to us, under the circumstances, a duty to restrict ourselves to what is of 
most importance, as well as because many other points would appear to offer too 
much difficulty to be made either intelligible or interesting to the general reader. 
There are certain limits beyond which the popular exposition of the natural 
sciences is impossible, and must partake more or less of the character of char- 
latanism. To him who has followed us we hope to have sufficiently shown that 
it needs not a glance towards the inconceivably distant worlds of the nocturnal 
heavens to be sunk in devout astonishment before the marvels of creation, but 
that the smallest organ of our bodily frame offers a subject of still more wonder, 
and, because more accessible to our understanding, of a yet higher degree of 
interest. 



LECTURE ON THE RESULTS 

OF 



SPECTRUM iLNALYSIS APPLIED TO THE HEAVENLY BODIES, 

DEUVERKD BEFORE THE 
BRITISH ASSOCIATION FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF SCIENCE. AUGUST 23, 1866. 



BY Wll. HUGGINS, F. R. S., ETC. 



An impoi'tant invention or discovery seldom, if ever, remains sterile and alone. 
It gives birth to other discoveries. The telescope and the microsco[)e have led 
to remarkable discoveries in a^^tronomy and in minute anatomy and physiology, 
Avhich would not have been possible without those instruments. The observation 
that a magnetic body, free to move, arranges itself nearly north and south, has 
not only contributed immensely to the extension of commerce and of geographical 
discovery, but also has founded the important science of terrestrial magnetism. 

This evening I have to bring before you some additions to our knowledge in 
the department of astronomy, which have followed from a comparatively recent 
discovery. The researches of Kirchhoflf have placed in the hands of the astron- 
omer a method of analysis which is specially suitable for the examination of the 
heavenly bodies. So unexpected and important are the results of the application 
of spectrum analysis to the objects in the heavens that this method of obser- 
vation may be said to have created a new and distinct branch of astronomical 
science. 

Physical astronomy, the imperishable and ever growing monument to the 
memory of Newton, may be described as the extension of terrestrial dynamics 
to the heavens. It seeks to explain tlie movements of the celestial bodies on the 
supposition of the universality of an attractive force similar to that which exists 
upon the earth. 

The new branch of astronomical science Avhich spectrum analysis may be said 
to have founded, has for its object to extend the laws of terrestrial physics to 
the other phenomena of ihe heavenly bodies, and it rests upon the now estab- 
lished fact that matter of a nature common to that of the earth, and subject to 
laws similar to those which prevail upon the earth, exists throughout the stellar 
universe. 

The peculiar importance of Kirchhoff 's discovery to astronomy becomes obvious 
if we consider the position in which we stand to the heavenly bodies. Gravita- 
tion and the laws of our being do not permit us to leave the earth; it is, therefore, 
by means of light alone that we can obtain any knowledge of the grand array 
of worlds which surround us in cosmical space. The star-lit heavens is the only 
chart of the universe we have, and in it each twinkling point is the sign of an 
immensely vast though distant region of activity. 

Hitherto the light from the heavenly bodies, even when collected by the largest 
telescope, has conveyed to us but very meagre information, and in some cases 
only of their form, their size, and their color. The discovery of Kirchhoff en- 
ables us to interpret symbols and indications hidden within the light itself, which 
furnish trustworthy information of the chemical, and also to some extent of the 
physical, condition of the excessively remote bodies frpm which the light baa 
emanated. 



196 LECTURE ON THE EESULTS OF SPECTKUM ANALYSIS 

"We are indebted to Newton for tiie knowledge that the beautiful tints of the 
rainbow are the common and necessary ingredients of ordinary light. He found 
that when white light is made to pass through a prism of glass it is decomposed 
into the beautiful colors which are seen in the rainbow. These colors when in 
this way separated from each other form the spectrum of the light. Let this 
white plate represent the transverse section of a beam of white light travelling 
towards you. Let now a prism be interposed in its path. The beam of white 
light is not turned aside as a whole, but the colored lights composing it are de- 
flected differently, each in proportion to the rapidity of its vibrations. An 
obvious consequence will be, that on emerging from the prism the colored lights 
which formed the white light will separate from each other, and in place of the 
white light which entered the prism w^e shall have its spectritm — that is, the 
colored lights tchich comfoscd it, in a state of separation from each other. 
Wollaston and Fraunhofer discovered that when the light of the sun is decom- 
posed by a prism, the rainbow colors which form its spectrum are not continuous, 
but are interrupted by a large number of dark lines. These lines of darkness 
are the symbols which indicate the chemical constitution of the sun. It was 
not until recently, in the year 1859, that Kirchhofif taught us the true nature of 
these lines. He himself immediately applied his method of interpretation to the 
dark lines of the solar spectrum, and was rewarded by the discovery that several 
of the chemical elements which exist upon the earth are present in the solar 
atmosphere. 

It is my intention to bring before you this evening the results of the extension 
of this method of analysis to the heavenly bodies other than the sun. These 
researches have been carried on in my observatory during the last four years. 
In respect of a large part of these investigations, viz., those of the moon, the 
planets, and lixed stars, I have had the great pleasure of working conjointly 
with the very distinguished chemist and philosopher. Dr. Wm. A. Miller. Half 
a century ago Fraunhofer recognized several of the solar lines in the light of the 
moon, Venus, and Mars, and also in the spectra of several stars. Recently, 
Donati, Janssen, Secchi, Rutherford, and the Astronomer Royal have observed 
lines in the spectra of some stars. Before I describe the results of our observa- 
tions, I will state, in a few words, the principles of spectrum analysis upon which 
our interpretation of the phenomena we have observed has been based, and also 
the method of observing which we have employed. 

"When light which has efnanated from different sources is decomposed by a 
prism, the spectra which are obtained may differ in several important respects 
from each other. All the spectra which may present themselves can be conve- 
niently arranged in three general groups. A spectrum illustrating each of these 
three orders is placed upon the diagram : 

1. The special character which distinguishes spectra of the^r*^; order consists 
in that the continuity of the colored band is unbroken either by dark or bright 
lines. By means of the electric lamp, Mr. Ladd will throw a spectrum of this 
order upon the screen. We learn from such a spectium that the light has been 
emitted by an opaque body, and almost certainly by matter in the solid or liquid 
state. A spectrum of this order gives to us no knowledge of the chemical nature 
of the incandescent body from which light comes. In the present case the light 
is emitted by the white-hot carbon points of the electric lamp. A spectrum in all 
respects similar would be formed by the light from incandescent iron, or lime, 
or magnesia. 

2. Spectra of the second order are very different. These consist of colored 
lines of light separated from each other. From such a spectrum we may learn 
much. It informs us that the luminous matter from which the light has come is 
in the state of gas. It is only when a luminous body is free from the molecular 
trammels of solidity and liquidity that it can exhibit its own peculiar power of 
radiating some colored rays alone. Hence substances, when in a state of gas, 



APPLIED TO THE HEAVENLY BODIES. 197 

may be distinguished from each other by their spectra. Each element, and 
every compound body that can become luminous in the gaseous state without 
suffering decomposition, is distinguished by a group of lines peculiar to itself 
These green lines are produced by silver in a state of gas, and only by silver 
gas. It is obvious that if the groups of lines characterizing the different terres- 
trial substances be known, a comparison of these as standard spectra with the 
spectrum of light from an unknown source will show whether any of these 
terrestrial substances exist in the source of the light. 

3. The third order consists of the spectra of incandescent solid or liquid bodies, 
in which the continuity of the colored light is broken by dark lines. These dark 
spaces are not produced by the source of the light. They tell us of vapors 
through which the light has passed on its way, and which have robbed the light, 
by absorption, of certain definite colors or rates of vibration; such spectra are 
form<'d by the light of the sun and stars. 

Kirchhoff has shown that if vapors of terrestrial substances come between the 
eye and an incandescent body, they cause groups of dark lines, and, further, 
that the group of dark lines produced by each vapor is identical in the number 
of the lines and in their position in the spectrum with the group of bright lines 
of which its light consists when the vapor is luminous. 

Mr. Ladd will throw upon the screen the spectrum of incandescent carbon 
points which contain scdium. Observe in addition to the continuous spectrum 
of the incandescent carbon a bright yellow band, which indicates the presence 
of sodium. Now a piece of metallic sodium will be introduced into the lamp. 
The sodium will be vaporized by the heat, and will fill the lamp with its vapor. 
This vapor absorbs, quenches the light that it emits when luminous. There 
will thus be produced a black line exactly in the place where the bright yellow 
line was seen. 

It is evident that Kirchhoff by this discovery has furnished ais with the means 
of interpreting the dark lines of the solar spectrum. For this purpose it is 
necessary to compare the bright lines in the spectra of the light of terrestrial 
substances, when in the state of gas, with the dark lines in the solar spectrum. 
When a group of bright lines coincides with a similar group of dark lines, then 
we know that the terrestrial substance producing the bright lines is present in 
the atmosphere of the sun ; for it is this substance, and this substance alone, 
which, by its own peculiar power of absorption, can produce that paiticular 
group of dark lines. In this way Kirchhoff discovered the presence of several 
terrestrial elements in the solar atmosphere. 

METHODS OF OBSERVATION. 

I now pass to the special methods of observation by which, in our investiga- 
tions, we have applied these principles of spectrum analysis to the liglit of the 
heavenly bodies. I may here state that several circumstances unite to make 
these observations very difficult and very irksome. In our climate, on few only 
even of those nights in which the stars shine brilliantly to the naked eye, is the 
air sufficiently steady for these extremely delicate observations. Further, the 
light of the star is feeblC: This difficulty has been met, in some measure, by 
the employment of a large telescope. The light of a star falling upon the surface 
of an object-glass of eight inches aperttire is gathered up and concentrated at the 
focus into a minute and brilliant point of light. 

Another inconvenience arises from the apparent movement of the stars, caused 
by the rotation of the earth, which cai-ries the astronomer and his instruments 
with it. This movement was counteracted by a movement given by clockwork 
to the telescope in the opposite direction. In practice, however, it is not easy 
to retain the image of a star for any length of timp. exactly within the jaws of a 
slit only the l-300th of an inch apart. By patient perseverance these diffipul- 



198 LECTURE ON THE RESULTS OF SPECTRUM ANALYSIS 

ties have been overcome, and satisfactory results obtained. We considered that 
the trustworthiness of our results must rest chiefly upon direct and simultaneous 
comparison of terrestrial spectra with those of celestial objects. For this purpose 
we contrived the apparatus which is represented in the diagram. 

By this outer tube the instrument is adapted to the eye-end 'of the telescope, 
and is carried round with it by the clock motion. Within this outer tube a 
second tube slides, carrying a cylindrical lens. This lens is for the purpose of 
elongating the round point-like image of the star into a short line of light, which 
is made to fall exactly within the jaws of a nearly-closed slit. Behind the slit 
an achromatic lens (and at the distance of its own focal length) causes the pen- 
cils to emerge parallel. They then pass into two prisms of dense flint glass. 
The spectrum which results from the decomposition of the light by the prisms 
is viewed through a small achromatic telescope. This telescope is provided with 
a micrometer screw, by which the lines of the spectrum may be measured. 

The light of the terrestrial substances which are to be compared with the 
stellar spectra is admitted into the instrument in the following manner : 

Over one-half of the slit is fixed a small prism, which receives the light re- 
flected into it by the movable mirror placed above the tube. The mirror faces 
a clamp of ebonite, provided with forceps to contain fragments of the metals 
employed. These metals are rendered luminous in the state of gas by the intense 
heat of the sparks from a powerful induction coil. The light from the spark 
reflected into the instrument by means of the mirror and the little prism passes 
on to the prisms in company with that from the star. In the small telescope 
the two spectra are viewed in juxtaposition, so that the coincidence and relative 
positions of the bright lines in the spectrum of the spark with dark lines in the 
spectrum of the star can be accurately determined. 

MOON AND PLANETS. 

I now pass to the results of our observations. 

I refer in a few words only to the moon and planets. These objects, unlike 
the stars and nubulse, are not original sources of light. Since they shine by 
reflecting the sun's light, their spectra resemble the solar spectrum, and the only 
indications in their spectra which may become sources of knowledge to us are 
confined to any modifications which the solar light may have suffered, either in 
the atmosphere of the planets or by reflection at their surfaces. 

Moon. — On the moon the results of our observations have been negative. 
The spectra of the various parts of the moon's surface, when examined under 
different conditions of illumination, showed no indication of an atmosphere about 
the moon. I also watched the spectrum of a star as the dark edge of the moon 
advanced towards the star and then occulted it. No signs of a lunar atmosphere 
presented themselves. 

Jupiter. — In the spectrum of Jupiter, lines are seen which indicate the exist- 
ence of an absorpiive atmosphere about this planet. In this diagram these lines 
are presented as they appeared when viewed simultaneously with the spectrum 
of the sky, which, at the time of observation, reflected the light of the setting 
sun. One strong band corresponds with some terrestrial atmospheric lines, and 
probably indicates the presence of vapors similar to those which are about the 
earth. Another band has no counterpart among the lines of absorption of our 
atmosphere, and tells us of some gas or-vapor which does not exist in the earth's 
atmosphere. 

Saturn. — The spectrum of Saturn is feeble, but lines similar to those which 
distinguish the spectrum of Jupiter were detected. These lines are less strongly 
marked in the ansae of the rings, and show that the absorptive power of the 
atmosphere about the rings is less than that of the atmosphere which surrounds 
the ball. A distinguished foreigner present at the meeting, Janssen, has quite 



APPLIED TO THE HEAVENLY BODIES. 199 

recently found that several of the atmospheric lines in this part of the spectrum 
are protluced by aqueous vapor. It appears to be very probable that aqueous 
vapor exists in the atmospheres of Jupiter and Saturn. 

Mars. — On one occasion some remarkable groups of lines were seen in the 
more refrangible part of the spectrum of Mars. These may be connected with 
the source of the red color which distinguishes this planet. 

Vcmis — Though the spectrum of Venus is brilliant, and the lines of Fraunhofer 
were well seen, no additional lines affording evidence of an atmosphere about 
Venus were detected. The absence of lines may be due to the circumstance 
that the light is probably reflected, not from the planetary surface, but from 
clouds at some elevation above it. The light which reaches us in this way by 
reflection from clouds would not have been exposed to the absorbent action of 
the lower and denser strata of the planet's atmosphere. 

THE FIXED STARS. 

The fixed stars, though immensely more remote and less conspicuous in 
brightness than the moon and planets, yet, because they are original sources of 
liglit, furnish us with fuller indications of their nature. 

To each succeeding age the stars have been a beauty and a mystery. Not 
only children, but the most thoughtful of men, often repeat the sentiment ex- 
pressed in the well-known lines — ' 

"Twinkle, twinkle, pretty star; 
How I wonder what you are." 

The telescope was appealed to in vain, for in the largest instruments the stars 
remain diskless — brilliant points merely. 

The stars have indeed been i-epresented as suns, each upholding a dependent 
amily of planets. This opinion rested upon a possible analogy alone. It was 
n)t more than a speculation. We possessed no certain knowledge y/•o??^ obser- 
vation of the true nature of those remote points of light. This long and earnestly- 
coveted information is at last furnished by spectrum analysis. We are now able 
to read in the light of each star some indications of its nature. Since I have 
not a magician's power to convert this theatre into an observatory, and so 
exhibit to you the spectra of the stars themselves, I have provided photographs 
of careful drawings. These photographs Mr. Ladd will exhibit upon the screen 
by means of the electric lamp. I will take first the spectra of two bright stars 
which we have examined with great care. 

The upper one represents the spectrum of Aldebaran, and the other that of 
Betelgeux, the star marked a in the constellation of Orion. 

The positions of all these dark lines, about 80 in each star, were determined 
by careful and repeated measures. These measured lines form but a small part 
of the numerous fine lines which may be seen in the spectra of these stars. 

Beneath the spectrum of each star are represented the bright lines of the 
metals which have been compared with it. These terrestrial spectra appeared 
in the instrument as you now see them upon the screen, in juxtaposition with 
the spectrum of the star. By such an arrangement, it is possible to determine 
Avitli great accuracy whether or not any of these bright lines actually coincide 
with any of the dark ones For example: 

This closely double line is characteristic of sodium. You see that it coincides, 
line for line, with a dark line similarly double in the star. The A^apor of sodium 
is therefore present in the atmosphere of the star, and sodium forms one of the 
elements of the matter of this brilliant but remote star. 

These three lines in the green are produced, so far as we know, by the lumi- 
nous vapor of magnesium alone. These lines agree in position exactly line for 



200 LECTUEE ON THE EESULTS OF SPECTRUM ANALYSIS 

line with three dark stellar lines. The conclusion, therefore, appears well founded 
that another of the constituents of this star is magnesium. 

Again, there are two strong lines peculiar to the element hydrogen; one 
line has its place in the red part of the spectrum, the other at the blue limit of 
the green. Both of these correspond to dark lines of absorption in the spectrum 
of the star. Hydrogen, therefore, is present in the star. 

In a similar way, other elements, among them bismuth, antimony, telurium, 
and mercury, have been shown to exist in the star. 

Now, in reference to all those elements, the evidence does not rest upon the 
coincidence of one line, which would be worth but little, but upon the coincidence 
of a g-roup of two, three, or four lines, occurring in different parts of the spec- 
trum. Other corresponding lines are probably also present, but the faiutness of 
the star's light limited our comparisons to the stronger lines of each element. 

What elements do the numerous (jther Imes in the star represent? Some of 
them are probably due to the vapors of other terrestrial elements, which we 
have not yet compared with these stars. But may not some of these lines be 
the signs of primary forms of matter unknown upon the earth ? Elements new 
to us may here show themselves which form large and important series of com- 
pounds, and therefore give a special character to the physical conditions of these 
remote systems. In a similar manner the spectra of terrestrial substances have 
been compared with several other stars. The results are given in the diagrams. 
Five or six elements have been detected in Betelgeux. Ten other elements do 
not appear to have a place in the constitution of this star. 

/? Pcgaisi contains sodium, magnesium, and perhaps barium. 

Siriixs contains sodium, magnesium, iron, and hydrogen. 

a LyrcB ( Vega) contains sodium, magnesium, iron. 

Pollux contains sodium, magnesium, iron. 

About sixty other stars have been examined, all of which appear to have some 
elements in common with the sun and earth, but the selective grouping of the 
elements in each star is probably peculiar and unique. 

A few stars, however, stand out from the rest, and appear to be characterized 
by a peculiarity of great significance. These stars are represented by Betelgeux 
and /5 Pegasi. The general grouping of the lines of absorption in these stars is 
peculiar, but the remarkable and exceptional feature of their spectra is the absence 
of the two lines which indicate hydrogen, one line in the red and the other in 
the green. These lines correspond to Fraunhofer's C and F. The absence of 
these lines in some stars shows that the lines and F are not due to the aqueous 
vapor of the atmosphere. 

We hardly venture to suggest that the planets which may surround these 
suns probably resemble them in not possessing the important element hydrogen. 
To what forms of life could such planets be adapted? Worlds without water! 
A power of imagination like that possessed by Dante would be needed to people 
such planets with living creatures. 

It is worthy of consideration that, with these few exceptions, the terrestrial 
elements which appear most widely diffused through the host of stars are pre- 
cisely eome of those which are essential to life such as it exists upon the earth, 
namely: hydrogen, sodium, magnesium, and iron. Besides, hydrogen, sodium, 
and magnesium represent the ocean, which is an essential part of a world con- 
stituted like the earth. 

We learn from these observations that in plan of structure the stars, or at 
least the brightest of them, resemble the sun. Their light, like that of the sun, 
emanates from intensely white-hot matter, and passes through an atmosphere of 
absorbent vapors. With this unity of general plan of structure, there exists a 
great diversity among the individual stars. Star differs from star in chemical 
constitution. May we not believe that the individual peculiarities of each star 



APPLIED TO THE HEAVENLY BODIES. 201 

are essentially connected with the special purpose which it suhserves, and with 
the living beings which may inhabit the planetary worlds by which it may 
possibly be surrounded? 

When we had obtained this new information respecting the true nature of the 
stars, our attention was directed to the phenomena which specially distinguish 
some of the stars. 

COLORS OF THE STARS. 

When the air is clear, especially in southern climes, the twinkling stars do 
not all resemble diamonds ; here and there may be seen in beauteov.s contrast 
riclilxj-colorcd gems. 

The color of the light of the stars which are bright to the naked eye is always 
some tint of red, orange, or yelloio When, however, a telescope is employed, 
in close companionship with many of these ruddy and orange stars, other fainter 
stars become visible, the color of which may be blue, or green, or purple. 

Now it appeared to us to be probable that the origin of these differences of 
color among the stars may be indicated by their spectra. 

Since we had found that the source of the light of the stars is incandescent 
solid or liquid matter, it appeared to be very probable that at the time of its 
omission the light of all the stars is white alike. The colors observed among 
them must then be caused by some modification suffered by the light after its 
emission. 

Again, it was obvious that if the dark lines of absorption were more numerous 
or stronger in some part of the spectrum, then those colors would be subdued in 
power, relatively to the color in which few lines only occur. These latter colors 
remaining strong, Avould predominate, and give to the light, originally white, 
their own tints. These suppositious have been confirmed by observations. 

Mr. Ladd will throw upon the screen the spectrum of Sirius, which may be 
taken as an illustration of the stars the light of which is tohite. 

As might be expected, the spectra of these stars are remarkable for their 
freedom from strong groups of absorption lines. The dark lines, though present 
in great number, are all, with one exception, very thin and faint, and too feeble 
to modify the original whiteness of the light. The one exception consists of 
three very strong single lines : one line corresponding to Fraunhofer's 0, one to 
F, and the other near G. Two of these certainly indicate the presence of 
hydrogen. This peculiarity, which seems iuvciriably connected with colorless 
stars, is very suggestive, and invites speculation. May it be a sign of a tempe- 
rature of extreme fierceness ] 

Let us now examine the spectrum of an orange star. 

This diagram represents the spectrum of the brighter of the two stars which 
form the double star a Herculis. In the sppctnmi of this star the green and 
blue parts of the light, and also the deep red, are subdued with strong groups of 
lines, while the orange and yellow rays preserve nearly their original intensity, 
and therefore predominate in the star's light. 

The question yet remained to be answered, would the faint telescopic stars, 
which are blue, green, and furple, and which are never found alone in the 
heavens, but always under the protection of a strong ruddy or orange star, fur- 
nish spectra in accordance with this theory ? 

With some little difiiculty, and by means of a special arrangement of the 
spectrum apparatus, we succeeded in observing the spectra of the com])onents of 
some double stars. There will now be thrown upon the screen the well-known 
double star /? Cygni. In a large telescope the colors of the two stars are beau- 
tifully contrasted, as they now appear upon the screen. The spectra of these 
stars are now shown. The upper spectrum represents the orange star, the lower 
one that of its beautiful blue but feeble companion. In the orange star you 
observe that the dark lines are strongest and most closely grouped in the blue 



202 LECTURE ON THE EESULTS OF SPECTEUM ANALYSIS 

and violet parts of the spectrum, and tlie orange rays therefore, wliicli are com- 
paratively free from lines, predominate. 

In the delicate blue companion, the strongest groups of lines ai'e found in the 
yellow, orange, and in part of the red. In the arrangement of these groups of 
lines we have a sufficient cause for the predominance of the other portions of 
the spectrum which unite in the eye to give the blue purple color of the light 
of this star. 

We have, therefore, shown that the colors of the stars are produced by the 
vapors existing in their atmosphere. The chemical constitution of a star's 
atmosphere will depend upon the elements existing in the star and upon its tem- 
perature. 

VARIABLE STARS. 

The brightness of many of the stars is found to be variable. From night to 
night, from month to month, or from season to season, their light may be ob- 
served to be continually changing, at one time increasing, at another time dimin- 
ishing. The careful study of these variable stars by numerous observers has 
shown that their continual changes do not take place in an uncertain or irregular 
manner. The greater part of these remarkable objects wax and wane in accord- 
ance with a fixed law of periodic variations which is peculiar to each. 

We have been seebiug for some time to throw light upon this strange phe- 
nomenon by means of observation of their spectra. If in any case the periodic 
variation of brightness is associated with physical changes occurring in the star, 
we might obtain some information by means of the prism. Again, if the diminu- 
tion in brightness of a star should be caused, by the interposition of a dark body, 
then, in that case, if the dark body be surrounded with an atmosphere, its presence 
might possibly be revealed to us by the appearance of additional lines of ab- 
sorption in the spectrum of the star when at its minimum. One such change in 
the spectrum of a variable star we believe we have already observed. 

Betelgeux is a star of a moderate degree of variability. When this star was 
at its maximum brilliancy in February last, we missed a group of lines, the ex- 
act position of which we had determined with great accuracy by micrometric 
measurement some two years before. 

We have observed the spectra of several variable stars at different phases of 
their periodic variation, but our results are not yet complete.- 

It is worthy of notice that the variable stars which have a ruddy or an orange 
tint possess spectra analogous to that of Betelgeux and /? Pegasi. 

As an example of this group of variable stars, Mr. Ladd will throw upon the 
screen the spectrum of /x Oephei when at its maximum. 

TEMPORARY STARS. 

With the variable stars modern opinion would associate the remarkable phe- 
nomena of the so-called new stars which occasionally, but at long intervals, have 
suddenly appeared in the sky. But in no case has a permanently bright star 
been added to the heavens. The splendor of all these objects was temporary 
only, though whether they died out or still exist as extremely faint stars is 
uncertain. In case of the two modern temporary stars, that seen by Mr. Hind 
in 1845, and the bright star recently observed in Corona, though they have lost 
their ephemeral glory, they still continue as stars of the tenth and eleventh 
magnitudes. 

'ihe old theories respecting these strange objects must be rejected. We can- 
not believe with Tycho Brahe that objects so ephemeral ai-e new creations, nor 
with Riccioli that they are stars brilliant on one side only, which have been 
suddenly turned round by the Deity. The theory that they have suddenly 
darted towards us with a velocity greater than that of light, from a region of 
remote invisibility, will not now find supporters. 



APPLIED TO THE HEAVENLY BODIES. 203 

On tlie 12th of May last a star of the second magnitude suddenly burst fortli 
in the constellation of the Northern Crown. Thanks to the kindness of the 
discoverer of this phenomenon, Mr. Birmingham, of Tuam, I was enabled, con- 
jbinlly with Dr. Miller, to examine the spectrum of this star on the l(jth May, 
Avhen it had not fallen much below the third magnitude. 

I ought to state that Mr. Barker, of London, Canada West, who announced 
an observation of this star on 14th May in tlie Canadian Free Press, now claims 
to have seen the star on May 4th, and states that it increased in brilliancy up to 
May lOtli, when it was at its maximum. 

The spectrum of this star consists of two distinct spectra. One of those is 
formed by these four bright lines. The other spectrum is analogous to the spectra 
of the sun and stars. 

These two spectra represent two distinct sources of light. Each spectrum is 
formed by the decomposition of light which is independent of the light which 
gives birth to the other spectrum. 

The continuous spectrum, crowded with groups of dark lines, shows that there 
exists a photosphere of incandescent solid or liquid matter. Further, that there 
is an atmosphere of cooler vapors, which give rise by absorption to the groups 
of dark lines. 

So far the constitution of this object is analogous to that of the sun and stars ; 
but in addition there is the second spectrum, which consists of bright lines. 
There is, therefore, a second and distinct source of light, and this must be, as 
the character of the spectrum shows, lummous gas. Now the position of the 
two principal of the bright lines of this spectrum informs us that one of the 
luminous gases is hydrogen. The great brightness of these lines shows that the 
luminous gas is hotter than the photosphere. These fticts, taken in connection 
with the suddenness of the outburst of light in the star, and its immediate very 
rapid decWne in brightness from the second magnitude down to the eighth mag- 
nitude in twelre days, suggested to us the startling speculation that the star had 
become suddenly enrapt in the flames of burning hydrogen. In consequence, it 
may be, of some great convulsion, enormous qimntities of gas were set free. A 
large part of this gas consisted of hydrogen, which was burning about the star 
in combination with some other element. Tliis flaming gas emitted the light 
represented by the spectrum of bright lines. The increased brightness of the 
spectrum of the other part of the star's light may show that this tierce gaseous 
conflagration had heated to a more vivid incandescence the solid matter of the 
photosphere. As the free hydrogen became exhausted the flames gradually 
abated, the photosphere became less vivid, and the star waned down to its former 
brightness 

We must not forget that light, though a swift messenger, requires time to pass 
from the star to us. The great physical convulsion which is new to us is already 
an event of the past with respect to the star itself. For years the star has ex- 
isted under the new conditions which followed this fiery catastrophe. 

NEBUL.E. 

I pass now to objects of another order. 

When the eye is aided by a telescope of even moderate power, a large num- 
ber of faintly luminous patches and spots come forth from the darkness of the 
sky, Avhich are in strong contrast with the brilliant but point-like images of the 
stars. A few of these objects may be easily discerned to consist of very faint 
stars closely aggregated together. Many of these strange objects remain, even 
in the largest telescopes, unresolved into stars, and resemble feebly shining clouds, 
or masses of phosphorescent haze. During the last loO years, the intensely im- 
portant question has been continually before the mind of astronomers, " What is 
the true nature of these faint, comet-like masses V 



204 LECTUEE ON THE EESULTS OF SPECTEUM ANALYSIS 

The interest connected witli an answer to this question has much increased 
since Sir William Herschel suggested that these objects are portions of the pri- 
mordial material out of which the existing stars have been fashioned ; and further, 
that in these objects we may study some of the stages through which the suns 
and planets pass in their development from luminous cloud. 

The telescope has failed to give any certain information of the nature of the 
nebulse. It is true that each successive increase of aperture has resolved more 
of these objects into bright points, but at the pame time other fainter nebulae 
have been brought into view, and fantastic wisps and diffused patches of light 
have been seen, which the mind almost refuses to believe can be due to the 
united glare of innumerable suns still more remote. 

Spectrum analysis, if it could be successfully applied to objects so excessively 
faint, was obviously a method of investigation specially suitable for determining 
whether any essential physical distinction separates the nebulse from the stars. 

I selected for the first attempt, in" August, 18G4, one of the class of small but. 
comparatively bright nebulse. My surprise was very great on looking into the 
small telescope of the spectrum apparatus to perceive that there was no appear- 
ance of a band of colored light, such as a star would give, but in place of this 
there were three isolated bright lines only. 

This observation was sufficient to solve the long agitated inquiry in reference 
to this object at least, and to show that it was not a group of stars, but a true 
nebula. 

A spectrum of this character, so far as our knowledge at present extends, can 
be produced only by light which has emanated from matter in the state of gas. 
The light of this nebula, therefore, was not emitted from incandescent solid or 
liquid matter, as is the light of the sun and stars, but from glotmng or luminous 
gas. 

It was of importance to learn, if possible, from the position of these bright 
lines, the chemical nature of the gas or gases of which this nebula consists. 

Measures taken by the micrometer of the most brilliant of the bright lines 
showed that this line occurs in the spectrum very nearly in the position of the 
brightest of the lines in the spectrum of nitrogen. The experiment was then 
made of comparing the spectrum of nitrogen directly with the bright lines of 
the nebula I found that the brightest of the lines of the nebula coincided with 
the strongest of the group of lines which are peculiar to nitrogen. It may 
be, therefore, that the occurrence of this one line only indicates a form of matter 
more elementary than nitrogen, and which our analysis has not yet enabled us 
to detect. 

In a similar manner the faintest of the lines was found to coincide with the 
green line of hydrogen. 

The middle line of the three lines which form the spectrum of the nebula does 
not coincide with any strong line in the spectra of about thirty of the terrestrial 
elements. It is not far from the line of barium, but it does not coincide with 
it. Besides these bright lines, there was also an exceedingly faint continuous 
spectrum. The spectrum had no apparent breadth, and must, therefore, have 
been formed by a minute point of light.' The position of this faint spectrum, 
which crossed the bright lines about the middle of their length, showed that the 
bright point producing it was situated about the centre of the nebula. Now 
this nebula possesses a minute but bright nucleus. We learn from this obser- 
vation that the matter of the nucleus is almost certainly not in a state of gas, as 
is the material of the surrounding nebula. It consists of opaque matter, Avhich 
may exist in the form of an incandescent fog of solid or liquid particles. 

The new and unexpected results arrived at by the prismatic examination of 
this nebula showed the importance of examining as many as possible of these 
remarkable bodies. Would all the nebulae give similar spectra ? Especially it 
was of importance to ascertain whether those nebulae which the telescope had 



APPLIED TO THE HEAVENLY BODIES. 205 

certainly resolved into a close aggregation of bright points would give a spectrum 
indicating gaseity. 

The observation with the prism of these objects is extremely difficult, on ac- 
count of their great faintness. Besides this, it is only when the sky is very 
clear and the moon is absent that the prismatic arrangement of their light is 
even possible. During the last two years I have examined the spectra of more 
than sixty nebulae and clusters. These may be divided into two great groups. 
One group consists of the nebula which give a spectrum similar ro the one 1 
have already described, or else of one or two only of the three bright lines. Of 
the six objects examined, about one-third belong to the class of gaseous bodies. 
The light from the remaining foi ty nebulte and clusters becomes spread out by 
the prism into a spectrum which is apparently continuous. 

I will exhibit upon the screen a few of the more remarkable of the nebulce 
which are gaseous in their constitution. 

This photograph is from a drawing by Lord Rosse of a small nebula in 
Aquarius. (I. H. IV.) 

We have here a gaseous system which reminds the observer of Saturn and his 
rings. The ring is seen edgeways. 

The three bright lines represent the spectrum into which the light of this ob- 
ject is resolved by the prism. 

In this other nebula we find probably an analogous general form of structure. 
In consequence of the nebula lying in a different position to us, its ring is seen, 
not edgeways, but open on the flat. The spectrum consists of three bright 
lines. 

The arrangement of the streams of light in the object now on the screen sug- 
gests a spiral structure. This nebula is remarkable as the only one in which, 
in addition to the three bright lines, a fourth line was also seen. 

The mo^t remarkable, and possibly the nearest to our system, of the nebulae 
presenting a ring formation, is the well-known annular nebula in Lyra. The 
spectrum consists of one bright line only. When the slit of the instrument 
crosses the nebula, the line consists of two brighter portions, corresponding to 
the sections of the ring. A much fainter line joins them, which shows that the 
faint central portion of the nebula has a similar constitution. 

A nebula remarkable for its large extent and peculiar form is that known as 
the dumb hell nebula. The spectrum of this nebula consists of one line only, 
A prismatic examination of the light from different parts of this object shows 
that it is throughout of a similar constitution. 

The most widely known, perhaps, of all the nebulse is the remarkable cloud- 
like object in the sword-handle of Orion. 

This object is also gaseous. Its spectrum consists of three bright lines. Lord 
Rosse informs me that the bluish-green matter of the nebula has not been 
resolved by his telescope. In some parts, however, he sees a large number of 
very minute red stars, which, though apparently connected with the irresolvable 
matter of the nebula, are yet doubtless distinct from it. These stars v/ould be 
too faint to furnish a visible spectrum, 

I now pass to some examples of the other great group of nebulaj and clusters. 

All the true clusters, which are resolved by the telescope into distinct bright 
points, give a spectrum, which does not consist of separate bright lines, but is 
apparently continuous in its light. There are many nehulce which furnish a 
similar spectrum. 

I take, as an example of these nebuhe, the great nebula in Andromeda, which 
is visible to the naked eye, and is not seldom mistaken for a comet. The 
spectrum of this nebula, though apparently continuous, has some suggestive 
peculiarities. The whole of the red and part of the orange are wanting. Be- 
sides this character, the brighter parts of the spectrum have a very unequal and 
mottled appearance. 



206 LECTURE ON THE EESULTS OF SPECTEUM ANALYSIS 

It is remarkable tliat tbe easily resolved cluster in Hercules has a spectrum 
precisely similar. The prismatic connection of this cluster with the nebula in 
Andromeda is confirmed by telescopic observation. Lord Rosse has discovered 
in this cluster dark streaks or lines similar to those which are seen in the 
nebula in Andromeda. 

In connection with these observations, it was of great interest to ascertain 
whether the broad classification afforded by the prism of the nebulae and clus- 
ters would correspond with the indications of resolvability furnished by the tele- 
scope. Would it be found that all the unresolved nebulse are gaseous, and that 
those which give a continuous spectrum are clusters of star si 

Lord Oxmantown has examined all the observations of the sixty nebulse and 
clusters in my list, which have been made with the great reflectiDg telescope 
erected by his father the Earl of Eosse. 

The results are given in this diagram : 

Continuous Gaseous 

Spectrum. Spectrum. 

Clusters 10 

Resolved, or Resolved ? 5 

Resolvable, or resolvable ? 10 '6 

Blue or green, no resolvability, no resolvability seen \ c ^ 

31 15 

Not observed by Lord Rosse 10 4 

41 19 

t- 

Considering the great difficulty of successful telescopic observation of these 
objects the correspondence between the results of prismatic and telescopic ob- 
servation may be regarded as close and suggestive. 

Half of tbe nebulse which give a continuous spectrum have been resolved, 
and about one-third more are probably resolvable; while of the gaseous nebulae 
none have been certainly resolved, according to Lord Rosse. 

The inquiry now presents itself upon us, what superstructure of interpreta- 
tion have we a right to raise upon the new facts with which the prism has fur- 
nished us % 

Is the existence of the gaseous nebulse an evidence of the reality of that pri- 
mordial nebulous matter required by the theories of Sir William Herschel and 
Laplace. 

Again, if we do not accept the view that these nebulse are composed of por- 
tions of the original elementary matter out of which suns and planets have been 
elaborated, what is the cosmical rank and relation which we ought to assign to 
them? 

As aids to ii future determination of these great questions I will refer in a few 
words to some other observations. 

COMETS. 

There are objects in the heavens which occasionally, and under some condi- 
tions, resemble closely some of the nebulse. In some positions in their orbits 
some of the comets appear as round vaporous masses, and, except by their mo- 
tion, cannot be distinguished from nebulse. Does this occasional general resem- 
blance indicate a similarity of nature % If such be the case, if the material of 
the comets is similar to that of the nebulse, then the study of the wonderful 
changes which comets undergo in the neighborhood of the sun may furnish use- 
ful information for a more correct interpretation of the structure and condition 



APPLIED TO THE HEAVENLY BODIES. 



207 



of the nebulae. In 18G4 Donati found that the spectrum of a comet visible in 
that year consisted of bright lines. 

Last January a small telescopic comet was visible. Its appearance in a large 
telescope is represented on the screen. It was a nearly circular, very faint va- 
porous mass. Nearly in the centre, a small and rather dim nucleus was seen. 
When this object was viewed in the spectroscope, two spectra were distinguished. 
A very faint continuous spectrum of the coma shoAving that it was visible by 
reflecting solar light. About the middle of this faint spectrum a bright point 
was seen. This bright point is the spectrum of the nucleus, and shows that ita 
light is different from that of the coma. This short bright line indicates that 
the nucleus of this comet was self-luminous, and further, the position of t'lis line 
of the spectrum suggests that the material of the comet wan similar to the tnat- 
ter of which the gaseous nehulce consist. 

MEASURES OF THE IXTRINSIC BRIGHTNESS OF THE NEBUL.E. 

It appeared to me that some information of the nature of the nebulse might 
be obtained from observations of another order. If pliysical changes of the 
magnitude necessary for the conversion of the gaseous bodies into suns are now 
in progress in the r buh^e, surely this process of development would be accom- 
panied by marked changes in the intrinsic brightness of their light, and in their 
size. 

Now since the spectroscope shows these bodies to be continuoius masses of 
gas, it is possible to obtain an approximate measure of their real brightness. It 
is known that as long as a distant object remains of sensible size, its brightness 
remains unaltered. By a new photometric method, I found the intrinsic intens- 
ity of the light of three of the gaseous uebulaj in terms of a sperm caudle burn- 
ing at the rate of 158 grains per hour : 

Nebula No. 4,G28, j-^^^ part of the intensity of the candle. 

Annular nebula, Lyra, -^-q^^ P^""*' ^^ ^^^ intensity of the candle. 

Dumb-bell nebula, tq^oT P^^'* ^^ ^^^ intensity of the candle. 

These numbers represent nut the apparetit brightness only, but the true 
brightness of these luminous masses, except so far as it may have been dimin- 
ished by a possible power of extinction existing in cosmical space, and by the 
absorption of our atmosphere. It is obvious that similar observations, made at 
considerable intervals of time, may show whether the light of these objects is 
undergoing increase or diminution, or is subject to a periodic variation. 

If the dumb-bell nebula, the feeble light of which is not more than one 
twenty-thousandth part of that of a candle, be in accordance with popular theory 
a sun-germ, then it is scarcely possible to put in an intelligible form the enor- 
mous number of times by which its light must increase before this faint nebula, 
feebler now in its glimmering than a rushlight, can rival the dazzling splendor 
of our sun. 

MEASURES OF THE NEBULA. 

Some of the nebulce are sufficiently defined in outline to admit of accurate 
measurement. By means of a series of micrometric observations, it may be 
possible to ascertain whether any considerable alteration in size takes place in 
nebulse. 

METEORS. 

Mr. AI-3xander Herschel has recently succeeded in subjecting another order 
of the heavenly bodies to prismatic analysis. He has obtained the spectrum of 
a bright meteor, and also the spectra of som'^. of the trains which meteors leave 
behind them. A remarkable result of his observations appears to be that sodium, 
in the state of luminous vapor, is present in the trains of most meteors. 



208 LECTUEE ON THE HEAVENLY BODIES. 

CONCLUSION. 

In conclusion, llie new knowledge that has been gained from these observa- 
tions witli the prism may be summed up as follows : 

1. All the brighter stars, at least, have a structure analogous to that of the 
sun. 

2. The stars contain material elements common to the sun and earth. 

3. The colors of the stars have their origin in the chemical constitution of 
the atmospheres which surround, them. 

4. The changes in brightness of some of the variable stars are attended with 
chauge| in the lines of absorption of their spectra. 

5. The phenomena of the star in Corona appear to show that in this object, 
at least, great physical changes, are iu operation. 

6. There exist in the heavens true nebula. These objects consist of lumin- 
ous gas. 

7. The material of comets is very similar to the matter of the gaseous nebulae, 
and may be identical with it. 

8. The bright points of the star-clusters may not be in all cases stars of the 
same order as the separate bright stars. 

It may be asked what cosmical theory of the origin and relations of the heav- 
enly bodies do these new facts suggest? It would be easy to speculate, but it 
appears to me that it would not be philosophical to dogmatize at present on a 
subject of which we know so very little. Our views of the universe are under- 
going important changes ; let us wait for more facts, with minds unfettered by 
any dogmatic theory, and therefore free to receive the obvious teaching, what- 
ever it may be, of new observations. 

Star differs from star in glory, each nebula and. each cluster has its own special 
features ; doubtless in wisdom, and for high and important purposes, the Creator 
has made them all. 



ON THE EXTERNAL APPEARANCE OF THE SUN'S 

DISK. 



TRANSLATED FROM THE GERMAN PERIODICAL " AUS DER NATUR," ETC., LEIPZIG, NO. 

11—1864. 



I.\ one of the last meetings of the Astronomical Society of Euglaud, some 
interesting remarks on the aspect presented by the exterior envelope of the sun 
were offered by M. Dawes. lie first adverted to the great increase in the num- 
ber of the observers who apply themselves to the study of that orb. since the 
number of large telescopes had itself so greatly increased and the dangers inci- 
dent to the sight been correspondingly diminished. But the appearances in 
the sun, when carefully studied with these powerful instruments and under 
favorable atmospherical circumstances, differ so widely from those which had 
been observed with the imperfect instruments of former times, that it can 
occasion no surprise if some observers, unapprised of what has been already 
noticed, should take the objects which fall within the field of their telescope to 
be new discoveries. That this is sometimes the case, there is every reason to 
believe. Not this circumstance alone, but still more the new names invented for 
these supposed discoveries, tend certainly more to impede than to jiromote the 
advancement of science. It would seem desirable, therefore, that attention 
should be directed to those appearances which have been long since observed 
and described, and that they should be collected and compared with the facts 
which have been more recently verified by the help of the improved telescope. 

To recognize the spotted appearance of the sun, no very great enlargement is 
necessary. M. Dawes has often observed it with a refractor of only 2^ inches 
opening, and a magnifying power of 60. If the surface of the sun be observed 
with an instniment of fromsix to eight inches opening, it presents the appearance 
of being chiefly composed of luminous masses which are separated from one 
another by rows of small black points. The interval between these points is but 
feebly brought out, and is filled with a matter which shines less brightly than 
the general surface. Whatever the magnifying power employed, the division 
between the luminous masses seems never to be complete. 

These masses present almost all possible varieties of irregular forms. The 
rarest of all are those which Nasmyth has compared to willow leaves. They 
are long, slender, and pointed. This form is only observed in the immediate 
neighborhood of the larger spots, in their half-shade, and their shadows extend- 
ing but a small distance from them — a peculiarity mentioned by Dawes as early 
as 1852, in his description of a new telescope, wherein he also states that the 
under side of the half-shades appears thickly indented, that lustrous points seem 
to be directed to the centre of the spots, and that they present, on the whole, the 
appearance of a band woven of straw whose inner ends have not been brought 
into close conformity. 

Sir John Herschel has stated, in his Introduction to Astronomy, that the part 
of the sun's disk which is. free from spots, shines with no uniform lustre ; that 
the surface of the sun appears dotted with small black points or pores, which, 
when attentively observed, appear to be undergoing constant change, and that 
nothing can be more fitly compared with this appearance than the slow subsid- 
ence of the flakes of a chemical precipitation in a transparent liquid when locjked 
at from above. M. Dawes has observed and confirms this phenomenon, though 
U s66 



210 ON THE EXTERNAL APPEAEAXCE OF THE SUN's DISK. 

be throws gome doubt upon tbe circumstance of a continual .change in the state 
of these pores. He says that he has explored and considered the surface of the 
sun with the greatest care, reducing the diaphragm of his telescope to small 
openings of from 20 to 60" diameter, and availing himself of a greater degree of 
enlargement than is generally to be commanded; that he has frequently retained 
the same shining masses, with the included pores, under observation for not less 
than two hours, but has seldom at any time observed a change, even Avith a 
magnifying power of 4,600 fold. He adds that the disturbances which so often 
take place in the atmosphere are sufficient to produce the belief that a constant 
change is going on in the objects we observe, and that the eye, when confined 
to so narrow a field, soon grows weary, and the vision becomes embarrassed. 

To this comparative repose, however, there is one fact which forms an excep- 
tion, for when our observation is directed to the immediate neighborhood of the 
spots, these are found to enlarge or diminish with great rapidity. It is chiefly 
under these circumstances that the lustrous masses assume the lengthened shape 
before spoken of; but these changes are the most vivid when these bright 
masses extend themselves by a rapid movement across the abyss, and thus form 
those dazzling bridges which often proceed from the principal spots. The point 
from which such a movement proceeds is frequently indicated by an accumula- 
tion and bending of the greater axis of one of the lengthened masses in the 
direction of the movement. Here M. Dawes shares the opinion of Sir John 
Herschel respecting the appearance of chemical precipitation, and refers to it the 
cause of these phenomena. 

Wherever this appearance occurred, M. Dawes narrowed his observation to 
the edge of the spots, and embracing but a small field, examined with attention 
the formation of the first part of the bridge. The bright masses presented the 
appearance of haums of straw, lying nearly all in the same direction and but few 
oblique to the line of the bridge, the sides of which seemed notched, on account 
of the unequal length of the parts of which it was formed. It may be remarked 
that these bridges are always constituted by bright stripes or lines which pro- 
ceed from the outer envelope and are projected to the half-shadows, without 
mingling with the under and less brilliant strata. M. Dawes at least has never 
found it otherwise. The light of these stripes has always been of such intensity 
that the lines formed by the bridges, however narrow, rendered it impossible to 
distinguish with the eye the spot from the shadow. 

As regards investigations respecting the origin or cause of the sun-spots, M. 
Dawes advises observers to direct particular attention to the dark nucleus which 
presents itself in the shadow of the most symmetrical spots. For twelve years 
has he been made sensible of the inconvenience arising from the application of 
the same name to different objects and the failure to distinguish the shadow 
from the nucleus. This admonition has unfortunately been little heeded ; in 
the description of the spots the shadow is constantly confounded with the true 
nucleus. M. Dawes the more insists upon this point, because his own observa- 
tions, have satisfied him that the presence or absence of the nucleus is competent 
to determine the origin of the spots, or at least to throw a strong light upon the 
question, and that the origin of the spots in which the nucleus occurs is alto- 
gether different from that where no such phenomenon appears. 

To avoid all confusion it is of course indispensable to denominate each sev- 
eral thing by its true name. From the diligent observation of Dawes it results 
that the shadow. under the half-shadow is not the sun's nucleus, and that this 
nucleus sometimes appears in the centre of the shadow. These two essentially 
different facts should never be lost sight of. 



ON ACCIDENTAL OR SUBJECTIVE COLORS. 

PERSISTENCE OF IMAGES.— CONTKAST.—IERADIATION.— DALTONISM, ETC. 



BY THE ABBE MOIGNO. 



Translated for the Smithsonian Institution from the author's " Repertoire d'optique moderne 
ou Analyse complet des travaux. modernes relatif uuz phtnomenes do la lumierc." 



In order to distinguish clearly between purely objective and subjective colors, 
of the latter of which it is here proposed to treat, the following definitions should 
be premised. Objectire colors are those in regard to which the eye is simply 
an organ of vision, an instrument rather passive than active, perceiving merely 
an external phenomenon without contributing in any manner to its production. 
The colors of the solar spectrum, those produced by refraction, those by which 
bodies manifest themselves to us, &c., are objective colors. Subjective colors are 
those which are produced, at least in part, by the eye itself, by a certain reaction 
of the organ of vision under the influence of a first sensation. If, for example, 
having closely observed in a strong light the yellow covering of a pamphlet, we 
open it rapidly, the white pages seem overspread with blue light : now, this blue 
light is evidently nothing real, is no objective color, but a phenomenon un- 
doubtedly produced in the eye itself — ^.a subjective phenomenon. These latter 
colors have hence been called accidental and physioJogical. The first term 
appears to us to be preferable, and we shall usually adopt it ii\ the analysis 
•which we are about to present of the researches relating to this class of luminous 
phenomena. 

Reaction of the eye. — In order, first, to give as clear an idea of this remarkable 
property which the eye possesses of reacting under the impression of a light 
more or less vivid, and of becoming in some degree active instead of passive, as 
it previously had been, we shall cite a portion of the letter addressed to Locke 
by the great Newton, on the images occasioned in the eye by the action of the 
solar light: "I have made on myself, and at the peril of my sight, the experi- 
ment which you mention, and Avhich occurs in Mr. Boyle's book on colors. I 
practiced it in the following manner : Having looked with the right eye, 
for a very short time, at the image of the sun reflected from a mirror, I then 
turned my eye towards an obscure corner of the apartment, and closing the eye- 
lid observed the imjiression which resulted — that is to say, the colored circle 
which surrounded the image of the sun, and which, growing weaker by degrees, 
finally disappeared. I repeated this act a second and third time. At the third 
repetition, when the luminous image and the colors which surrounded it were 
rapidly disappearing, and while my attention was concentrated in the expectation 
that I should completely lose sight of them, I saw them, with no little surprise, 
again make their appearance and gradually become as vivid and strong as they 
had been at the moment when I ceased contemplating the sun. * * * I 
was obliged, in order to recover the use of my eyes, to confine myself in a 
darkened apartment for three whole days, nor did I perfectly recover my sight 
but by wholly abstaining from the view of all brilliant objects."^ 

This firct and a thousand others abundantly prove that when the portion of 
the retina, excited by the presence of a luminous object, is suddenly withdrawn 
from that action, the impression produced by the object does not immediately 



212 ON ACCIDENTAL OE SUBJECTIVE COLOES. 

cease, but persists during a very sensible interval of time. Let us pause for 
a few instants to consider with M. Plateau this capital phenomenon, on which 
depend, in part at least, the subjective colors. 

Persistence of images. — Everyone knows .that when a burning coal is rapidly 
whirled in the dark, a luminous curve will be seen, as if the coal left on the eye 
the trace of its passage. This appearance evidently results from the fact that 
the impression produced by the object at any point of its course still subsists for 
some time after it has left that point, so that the successive positions of the 
luminous object must appear simultaneous. To the same cause are to be referred 
numerous appearances which exhibit themselves whenever we observe an ani- 
mated object in rapid motion. To this fireworks owe a part of their brilliant 
effect; rain and hail, for this reason, instead of presenting in their fall the ap- 
pearance of rounded bodies, offer that of parallel lines; the teeth of a wheel 
which turns rapidly disappear and seem to be replaced by a semitransparent 
gauze, through which objects maybe distinguished; a vibrating cord presents an 
analogous effect, &c. We may also directly observe the phenomenon of the 
persistence of impressions if, after having looked at a luminous object of suffi- 
cient lustre, a window for instance, we suddenly close and cover the eyes, when 
the image of tlie object will be seen to continue for some time. 

Measure of the chiration of impressions. — Although this persistence of impres- 
sions is constantly reproduced and under a multitude of circumstances, and has 
received many useful and curious applications, it has been very little studied. 
D'Arcy first conceived the idea of measuring the duration of the phenomenon 
by causing a burning coal to revolve in darkness so as to produce ihe appear- 
ance of a luminous ring. And if, in effect, we succeed in giving to the object 
such a velocity that it shall repass at each 'point of its course, precisely at the 
instant when the impression produced by its passage is at the point of vanishing, 
the duration of the impression will be measured by that of a revolution. D'Arcy 
concluded from his experiments that the duration of the impression produced on 
his eye by a burning coal was equal to 8'" or 0".13. But this method is de- 
fective; it gives not the complete duration of the impression, but only the time 
during which this impression is maintained without sensible loss. To obtain 
with exactness the total duration of the impression it would be necessary that 
the velocity of the object should be such that it shall find at each point in its 
course the preceding impression so much weakened as to be just at the point of 
extinction ; which is almost impossible. M. Plateau has, however, succeeded in 
surmounting, in part, these difficulties, and has determined the total duration 
of the impressions produced on his eye by white, yellow, red, or blue objects, 
observed by daylight. The values for the different colors employed are jDer- 
ceptibly equal: their mean is 0". 34, instead of 0" 13 found by D'Arcy; still 
this result is but a first approximation. 

Liength of time necessary for the production of the impression. — Experiments 
of this kind plainly establish the existence of another fact too little remarked: 
namely, that for the complete formation of an impression on the retina some lapse 
of time is requisite. This might have been inferred from the well-known fact 
that an object which passes very rapidly before the eye is scarcely distinguishable, 
or even is not perceived at all. The following experiment places this beyond 
doubt : Let a small white object, a piece of paper for instance, be made to move 
circularly before a dark back-ground with such a velocity that the apparent ring 
shall present a tint perfectly uniform and constant ; this ring will not appear white, 
but gray. Now, it is apparent from the uniformity of the tint that, during the 
duration of a revolution, the impression produced is maintained without sensible 
loss ; if this impression were white, it is evident that the entire ring ought to 
appear decideflly white, not gray; it follows that by reason of the small space 
of time during which the object acts on each point of the retina, it produces only 
a grayish impression — that is to say, an impression imperfectly white. No 



ON ACCIDENTAL OK SUBJECTIVE COLORS. 213 

attempt has been made to measure the time necessary for the complete pro- 
duction of the impression. As regards the time during which a given impres- 
sion preserves an intensity perceptibly constaiil^ M. Plateau has arrived at the 
following conclusions : 

Laws of the 2^crsistence of images. — First. The interval of time during which 
an impression is maintained without sensible loss is proportionably greater as 
the impression is less intense. Second. This interval, for the production of a 
complete impression on the eye of M. Plateau by a white paper, in broad day- 
light, was found to be less than 0". 008 ; for yellow paper, a little longer than 
white ; still longer for red, and longer still for blue. These limits may be much 
exceeded when the impressions have little intensity. It will be seen that, ac- 
cording to these results, it cannot be said in general, as in speaking of the par- 
ticular case of a burning coal, that, in order to obtain a continuous sensation, it 
suffices that the luminous impression be repeated eight or ten times per second. 
In order to produce on the eye of M. Plateau the continuous sensation of white- 
ness, such as that of a piece of paper in the full light of day, it was necessary, 
from the number above given, that the impression of light should be repeated 
more than 125 times per second. Third. The total duration of the impression 
appears to be greater in proportion as the impression is more intense. When 
the object which has produced the impression is very luminous, such as the set- 
ting sun, and we cover the eyes, the impression sometimes subsists for several 
minutes. In some persons, the imagination may exert great influence over phe- 
nomena of this sort. Fourth, The total duration of the impression appears to be 
greater in proportion as the object has been observed for a shorter time ; provided, 
however, that the time be sufficient to develop a complete impression. When, 
for example, M. Plateau cast his eyes on a small isolated window and speedily 
directed them to an obscure part of the chamber, he saw the image with its 
luminous panes and dark sashes distinctly persist, though growing fainter, for 
about three seconds. If he looked at the window a little longer, the duration of 
the image was less ; and, finally, after a prolonged observation of the window, 
the image was so fugitiA'e that he could with difficulty perceive a trace of it. 
Fifth. When the impression proceeds from a very luminous object, such as the 
setting sun, or even a window, it usually passes through a series of different 
colors. Thus, when, after having looked at a window for a very short time, M. 
Plateau covered his eyes with a handkerchief, he saw the image of the luminous 
panes become successively red, violet, blue, again violet, whitish, then greenish, 
and green. These phenomena, which seem to vary much with the circumstances 
of the experiment, have received as yet no satisfactory explanation. Sixth. 
When, lastly, the impression persisting on the retina proceeds from a brilliant 
object, it is observed occasionally to disappear and reappear several times in suc- 
cession before it completely vanishes. This, for example, takes place, according 
to Darwin, when the setting sun has been observed for some instants, so as not 
too much to fatigue the sight, and the observer afterwards, with the eyes closed 
and covered, considers the. persistence of the impression produced. 

Kaleidoplione. — Mr. W^heatstone has made use of the persistence of these im- 
pressions to exhibit to the eye the mode in which the transverse vibrations of 
an elastic rod attached by one of its extremities take place. For this purpose, 
the rod is terminated by a small and polished metallic ball, or by a small hollow 
sphere of glass, plated on the interior, and the apparatus is exposed to the sun 
or the light of a candle. When the rod is put in vibration by means of a bow, 
or by removing it from its position of equilibrium and then leaving it to itself, 
the brilliant point which the sun or candle occasions on the little ball produces, 
by its rapid movement, the appearance of beautiful curves, more or less com- 
plicated, according to the form of the rod and the sound whichjt has been made 
to produce ; thus each system of vibration and each sound has its image. To 
this ingenious apparatus Mr. Wheatstone has given the name of kaleiduphone. 



214 ON ACCIDENTAL OE SUBJECTIVE COLORS. 

Fhotometer of Mr. Wkeatstone. — Another instrument of this distinguished 
English savant, founded on the same principle, and called a 2^^ot(jmeter, produces 
still more singular appearances. It consists in causing to revolve eccentrically 
a disk of cork, having attached to it a greater or less number of little balls simi- 
lar to those just spoken of, and arranged under the form of regular or irregular 
polygons. Each of these balls, illuminated by a ray, gives rise in its rotation 
to a curve, and the different curves, by their involutions, describe the most curious 
figures. 

Different chronoscopes. — Means of afpireciating the instantaneousncss or dura- 
tion of various phenomena. — Mr. Wheatstone has also devised some very curious 
processes, founded in like manner on the persistence of impressions, which have 
enabled him to prove the instantaneousncss of certain luminous phenomena, such 
as the electric spark, or to estimate their duration, however short. One of them 
consists in observing the phenomenon by reflection in a mirror, to which a very 
rapid movement is given of such a nature that supposing the luminous object to 
be persistent, its image seems to describe a great circle. Now, if the phenomenon 
be instantaneous, the image can be seen only in a single point of this circle, and 
will not appear changed in form ; if, on' the contrary, the phenomenon has an ap- 
preciable duration, the image will be elongated in such a manner as to form an 
arc of a length proportioned to the duration, so that from the magnitude of the 
perceived arc the duration of the luminous phenomenon may be calculated. An 
electric spark observed in this manner does not appear at all elongated, whence 
it must be regarded as instantaneous. Mr. Wheatstone has, in this way, rendered 
perceptible the intermission of certain flames or luminous jets which, to the rlaked 
eye, seem perfectly continuous, such as a current of electric sparks received at a 
very small distance from a conductor. The light being thus, in an extremely 
small interval of time, stretched along a greatly extended line, the slightest dis- 
continuity becomes visible, and it is for this reason that the current of sparks 
presents under such circumstances the aspect of a series of luminous points sepa- 
rated by dark spaces. 

Again, Mr. Wheatstone has demonstrated, in the following manner, the instant- 
aneousncss of the electric spark : A disk of white pasteboard, on which is drawn 
in black any figure whatever, is made to turn with great rapidity in its own 
plane around a fixed axis. From the movement of rotation it becomes impossi- 
ble any longer to distinguish the figure traced on the circle, which now presents 
only a sei'ies of concentric bands of different tints. This is an evident result o£ 
the persistence of impressions. Now let the circle be put in motion in a cham- 
ber perfectly darkened, and be then suddenly illuminated by an electric spark, 
immediately the figure will be very distinctly perceived, as if it were in a state 
of complete immobility, no matter what velocity may be given to the circle. But 
this effect could not take place if the spark had a sensible duration, for then the 
figure would be seen in several successive positions, and thence a confusion would 
result, so much the greater as the duration of the spark was more prolonged. Mr. 
Wheatstone has further availed himself of this process. to destroy, in certain cases, 
the false appearances which the persistence of impressions gives to objects in rapid 
motion. These objects being illuminated by this means, but for an exceedingly 
short time, they exhibit themselves only in a single position, and 'the impression 
which they produce having a sensible duration, we are enabled to judge of their 
true form. It is thus that Mr. Wheatstone has succeeded in seeing very dis- 
tinctly with the microscope the movable wheels of the infusory animal called 
the rotfer. . The foregoing processes will be found described at length in our 
treatise on electric telegraphy, as well as the uses to which MM. Arago, Wheat- 
stone, and Dove have applied the same principles, in order to make manifest the 
duration of flashes of light, the discontinuity of their illumination, the velocity of 
electricity, the unequal velocity of light in different refracting mediums, &c. 



ON ACCIDENTAL OR SUBJECTIVE COLORS. 215 

Other j)rocessvs for manifesting the continuity or discontinuity of various phe- 
nomena. — Savart, in a particular case, made use of a process which in like manner 
enabled him to rectify false appearances resulting from rapid movement, and to 
determine the real figure of a liquid vein flowing from a circular orifice pierced 
in a thin plate. His apparatus consists essentially of a large riband, whos^ sur- 
face is divided by transverse bands alternately white and black, and to which a 
rapid movement may be given in the direction of its length. The liquid being 
supposed to flow vertically, the movable riband is placed behind the vein, and 
in a position parallel to it. If a movement sufficiently rapid be then communi- 
cated to the apparatus, the eye, placed before the system, can distinguish the 
several peculiarities presented hy the vein ; such as the annular dilatations which 
are propagated along the portions of the vein contiguous to the orifice ; a portion 
which, without the aid of this instrument, appears as smooth as a stem of crystal. 
The effect produced by this apparatus is analogous to those produced by two 
wheels turning with rapidity, one behind the other, in planes parallel and ap- 
proximated, and with unequal velocities of speed or direction. 

M. Matteucci has remarked quite recently that, in order to confirm the inge- 
nious observations of Savart, on the constitution of the liquid vein, it is only requi- 
site to illuminate the vein with a large electric spark, or rather a series of sparks. 
On examining in this manner the fluid vein, obtained as Savart prescribes, it will 
be easily seen that the part which, to the eye, appears continuous, is in reality 
composed of drops having exactly the form assigned to them by the illustrious 
physicist, some being elongated, others flattened, others almost spherical. 

M. Plateau has proposed a general process different from that of Mr. Wheat- 
stone, to show under their real form the objects to which their rapid movement 
gives a deceptive appearance. His apparatus consists of a disk of blackened 
pasteboard, of about twenty-five centimetres in diameter, movable around an axis 
like a wheel, and perforated towards its circumference with some twenty narrow 
slits in the direction of the radii. These openings should be about two millime- 
tres in breadth, and two centimetres in length, and situated at equal distances 
from one another. To make use of this instrument, it is necessary to give to the 
disk a movement of rotation sufficiently rapid, then closing one eye, to observe 
with the other, through the transparent circular band which results from the revo- 
lution of the slits, the movable object of which we wish to ascertain the true form ; 
the eye, at the same time, must be held as near as possible to the openings, and 
the observer be at a certain distance from the object. 

Let us suppose, in the first place, that the object has a periodical movement; 
that is to say, that it passes successively through the same positions ; that, for 
example, it is a chord in vibration, a burning coal moved circularly, &c. ; or 
that such objects as the radii or teeth of a wheel, &c., occupy in succession the 
same place ; then, if the velocity of our disk be such that whenever an opening 
passes before the eye the same object or similar objects recur in the same posi- 
tion, there will obviously be formed on the retina a succession of identical im- 
pressions, which their persistence will connect with one another ; hence will re- 
sult the continuous appearance of an object or series of immovable objects, 
having the real form, or very nearly such, of the objects we are observing. 
Thus, for instance, a wheel which turns so rapidly that its radii or teeth appear 
confounded, would seem perfectly motionless through our disk, supposing tlic 
latter to have a suitable velocity. Even if the movement of the object do not 
present a regular succession, as in the case of one of those luminous meteors 
whose brilliant trace is probably due to the persistence of the impression, the 
instrument will still be useful. In that case the object cannot be isolated, as 
regards the eye, in a succession of identical positions ; but the images which it 
produces on the retina, in the different positions which correspond to the pas- 
sage of the successive openings, will persist sufficiently long to enable us to 
juds^e in general of its real form. 

In illustration, we will refer to the effect which is presented, under certain 



216 ON ACCIDENTAL OR SUBJECTIVE COLOEs'. 

circumstances, by the flame of a candle subjected to this mode of observation. 
We know that such a flame seems, from time to time, to undergo a rapid oscil- 
latory movement in the direction of its length ; its summit appears to rise and 
sink alternately. If, at the moment of such agitation, this flame be observed 
by means of the disk in question, the upper part will be seen to bs divided into 
several distinct portions, situated some above the others, and separated by dark 
intervals. From this it must be inferred that the apparent oscillatory movement 
of the flame is occasioned by the detachment from its summit of a succession of 
partial and separate flames which rise rapidly, and are extinguished one after 
the other. 

Thaumatrope. — The phenomenon which we have been considering is the 
principle of many curious illusions. Every one is acquainted with the little in- 
strument called a thaumatrope, which consists of a circular piece of pasteboard 
made to move rapidly around one of its diameters, and which bears on each of 
its faces figures drawn in such a way that the combination of the two impres- 
sions they produce on the retina forms a third and regular picture. 

Anorthoscope. — M. Plateau has made use of the persistence of impressions to 
produce a new sort of anamorphosis by causing two disks to turn rapidly, one 
behind the other, with velocities relatively determinate, the disk in the rear 
bearing a distorted figure brightly illuminated, and that in front being perforated 
with a narrow opening. He has shown that from the most deformed figures 
may thus be produced regular images which seem perfectly motionless. The 
regular figures thus generated result from the successive apparent intersections 
of the opening with difierent parts o.f the deformed figure ; intersections which 
the persistence of impressions causes to appear simultaneous. This application 
has given rise to a curious apparatus, known by the name of anorthoscope. 

Experiments of Mr. Faraday.— Mr. Faraday has published a note on certain 
illusions resulting principally from the regular appearances presented by two 
wheels of the same size and with the same number of radii, placed one behind 
the other, and turning rapidly on a common axis in planes very close to one 
another, with equal velocities and in contrary directions. The eye, placed in 
front of such a system in the direction of the axis, will see the appearance of a 
wheel perfectly motionless, and whose radii will be double in number to those 
of each of the two wheels in motion. 

Another experiment by Mr. Faraday consists in causing to turn, in front of a 
mirror and four to five metres distant from it, a dentatcd wheel of pasteboard, 
and observing in the glass the image of this wheel through the seemingly gauzy 
medium produced by the movement of the teeth and their intervals, the eye 
being placed very near the wheel. The image then appears completely mo- 
tionless and in its real form, as if the movement of the wheel had ceased. Mr. 
Faraday has further shown that, if the part of the wheel comprised between the 
teeth and the centre be divided into sectors colored and suitably arranged, the 
colors, which become confused when the revolving wheel is looked at directly, 
are immediately separated if its image in the mirror be observed in the manner 
above indicated. It would be easy to deduce from the principles which we 
have already estabhshed the reason of the effects just described. In the same 
manner may be explained the following experiment, due also to Mr. Faraday: 
If a new range of openings be cut in the wheel between the teeth and the cen- 
tre, the number of which differs a little from that of the teeth, and this wheel 
be then subjected to the experiment of the mirror, on looking through one or 
another range of openings, the image of 'that through which we look appears to 
undergo a slow movement of rotation. Several rows of openings may be thus 
pierced so as to produce the appearance of movements more or less rapid and of 
different directions. 

Phantascope, phenakistoscope. — The experiments which we have been re- 
counting have led M. Plateau to realize a new species of illusions, which con- 



ON ACCIDENTAL OR SUBJECTIVE COLORS, 217 

sists ill causing figures delineated on a disk to appear animated and alive. The 
instrument with which this is effected is called a phantasmpe, and produces ap- 
pearances truly singular. The same idea, since carried into execution in a 
much moi'e imperfect manner, has given rise to the fhcnak'i stoscope. The latter 
apparatus consists essentially of a disk of pasteboard perforated towards the 
circumference with a series of narrow openings ; on the disk are painted small 
figures which, when it is made to revolve opposite a mirror, seem, when the 
image is observed through tbe openings, to become animated and to execute 
different movements. The effect proceeds from such an arrangement of the in- 
strument that figures which differ progressively from one another iu form, posi- 
tion, or place, present themselves in quick succession to the eye, so that, the 
persistence of the impressions connecting the images with each other, the same 
figures appear to be passing in a continuous manner from one state to another. 
[A very ingenious and interesting modification of this apparatus has lately 
been invented by William Lincoln, a student of Brown University, Providence, 
Rhode Island. In this the series of figures are drawn on long slips of paper, 
one of which at a time is placed for exhibition around the interior circumference 
of a hollow cylinder which is made to revolve on its axis iu a vertical position. 
The figures are viewed through a series of narrow vertical slits in the cylinder, 
and as these pass the eye in rapid succession, they give in each instance a 
glimpse of the opposite figures, and thus produce the effect of apparent motion. 
With this apparatus, which is called a zootrope, several persons can see the 
effect at the same time. As the slits near the eye are moving in one direction, 
while the figures on the opposite concave side of the cylinder are moving with 
equal velocity in the opposite direction, the number of figures will appear to be 
double. J. H.J 

Wo return now to subjective colors, still taking for our guide the excellent 
dissertation of M. Plateau. 

SUBJECTIVE COLORS. 

First class — T?ie svccedancous colors. — If we regard attentively a colored 
object placed on a black ground, keeping the eye constantly fixed on the same 
point, Ave shall see, at the end of some moments, the color of that object grad- 
ually lose something of its lustre ; and if the eyes be then suddenly directed to 
a white surface, we shall presently see an image of the same form with the 
object appear, but of a color complementary to the latter; the term comple- 
mcntarij being understood to designate two colors which, added to or blended 
with one another, produce white. Thus, the prolonged contemplation of a red, 
object gives rise afterwards to a green image, and, conversely, the contemplation 
of a green object is followed by the appearance of a red image ; if the object is 
yellow or blue, the consequent object will be violet or orange, and vice versa. 
Further, a tvJiite object produces in this way a blackish image, while a black 
object produces a white image, lighter than the ground on which it is delineated. 
All these images remain visible for some time ; their intensity, as well as dura- 
tion, being so much greater as tlie time during which the object has been ob- 
served is more considerable. These appearances form a portion of those to 
which has been given the name of accidental colors, a name conferred by Buffon, 
to whom, as Jurin asserts, we owe the first observations on this sort of phe- 
nomena. Time, it will be seen, enters essentially into this first order of sub- 
jective colors, since it is their nature to succeed to the objective colors which 
cau.se them to appear. . 

properties of this first order of subjective colors. — The following are the 
principal properties presented by these singular appearances : 

1. The disappearance of the images does not generally take place by a gradual 
and continuous diminution of intensity ; they present, on the contrary, an alter- 
nation of disappearances and reappearances ; occasionally the primitive impres- 



218 ON ACCIDENTAL OR SUBJECTIVE COLORS 

sion is seen to recur once or even several times. The following experiment of 
M. Plateau shows this effect in a very remarkable manner : One of his eyes 
being closed and covered with a handkerchief, he adapted to the other a black- 
ened tube about fifty centimetres in length and three in width, and regarded 
with fixed attention, for a minute at least, a red paper placed in a strong light, 
and so large that its borders were hidden by the tube ; then, without uncovering 
the closed eye, he suddenly directed the tube to the ceiling of the apartment. A 
green circular image was now seen to form, but this was very soon replaced by 
a red image of feeble intensity; after which the green image reappeared, to be 
succeeded anew by a reddish image, and so on ; the red image reappearing as 
often as four times, though with a progressive diminution of intensity of both 
the red and green. 

2. The same phenomena are still manifested, when, in place of turning the 
eyes on a white surface, after having regarded the object a sufficient time, they 
are suddenly closed, and at the same time completely covered with a handker- 
chief on which the hands are applied ; in this absolute darkness the image of 
the object will be seen perfectly delineated and colored with the complementary 
tint. 

3. The accidental image appears of more or less size, according to the dis- 
tance of the surface on which it is projected. When that surface is at the same 
distance. from the eye as the object, the image presents the same magnitude; if 
the surface be more or less remote, the image appears proportionably augmented 
or diminished. 

4. The subjective colors combine with one another in the same manner as 
the real colors ; that is to say, from the accidental yellow and blue is formed 
green ; from the accidental red and blue, violet. Of this we may satisfy our- 
selves by the following experiment, Avhich we owe to P. Scherffer : Place be- 
side one another, on a black ground, two small squares of paper, colored, the one 
violet, the other orange, (colors Avhose accidentals are yellow and blue,) and- 
mark with a black point the middle of each of these squares. Then let the 
eyes be alternately directed to one and the other of the points, keeping them 
fixed upon each for about a second, and, after having repeated this operation a 
considerable number of times, close the eyes, or direct them towards a white 
surface. We shall now distinguish three squares in juxtaposition, of which the 
formation is easily conceived, the middle square being evidently formed from 
the superposition of the accidental colors produced by the two colors employed. 
In the supposed case the middle square will be green ; it would be violet if the 
two colors employed were green and orange, the accidentals of which are the 
red or blue, &c. One case, however, forms an exception ; that, namely, in 
which the two accidental colors which we combine are complementary the one 
to the other; then, instead of producing white, like two complementary real 
colors, they seem, on the contrary, only to give place to an effect of obscurity. 
Thus, when the two small squares of paper are, the one green, the other red, 
colors whose accidentals are red and green, the square which occupies the mid- 
dle in the accidental image appears blackish if projected on a white ground, and 
completely black if the eyes be covered. 

5. The accidental subjective colors combine with the real colors in the same 
manner as these last with one another ; that is to say, from accidental red and 
real blue results violet ; from accidental blue and real yellow, green. It is easy 
to be satisfied of the fact by projecting the accidental image on a surface painted 
of the color with which we wish to combine it; thus, by projecting on a leatf of 
blue paper the accidental image red proceeding from a green object, the result- 
ing appearance is a fine violet. But it is necessary to bear in mind the follow- 
ing remarks : The object being always placed on a black ground, if we project 
its accidental image on a surface of the same color with itself, or, in other terms, 
on a surface whose color is complementary with that of the image, the latter 



ON ACCIDENTAL OR SUBJECTIVE COLORS. 219 

will appear only of a dark gray, as if the sensation were partially destroyed at 
that point of the surface. This will be the case, for example, if, after having 
looked for some time at a small piece of red paper placed on a black ground, 
we cast the eyes on a sheet of this s^me red paper. On the contrary, if we 
project the accidental image on a surfiice whose color is complementary to that 
of the object — that is to say, which is identical with that of the image — the lat- 
ter will appear of a finer and purer color than the rest of the surface on which 
it is detached. This, for example, will take place with a red object and !i green 
surface, with a yellow object and violet surface. 

6. With a view to isolate from all extraneous influence the colonnl object 
looked at, we have assumed thus far that it rested on a black ground ; if this 
ground be white, we obtain analogous effects as regards the color of the sub- 
jective image, but different as regards the relative brightness of that image, and 
the surface on which it is projected. Thus when the object rests on a black 
ground its accidental image, projected on a white surface, appears darker than 
the latter, and the contrary takes place if the object rests on a white ground. 

In order to form a complete idea of the principal properties of these subjective 
. -colors, it remains to add the following facts : 

7. We have said that when the eyelids are covered, after looking at a bright 
object, the primitive impression is usually found to persist for a considerable 
time. In such a case, if the covering be removed from the eyelids, or the eyes 
be opened and directed to a white surface, it generally occurs that this primi- 
tive impression immediatelj'- changes into an accidental image, which passes 
anew to the primitive state if the eyes be again covered ; and the impression 
may thus be made to pass several times in succession from one to the other con- 
dition. The effect is very well manifested by the image of a window, and it 
was in this way that Franklin observed it. This image appears, to the eyes 
closed and covered, to be formed of luminous panes and dark sashes ; but if the 
light be allowed to reach the eye, the panes become dark and the sashes lumin- 
ous. If we close the eyes anew the first effect recurs, and so on alternately. 
Darwin has observed an analogous effect after looking at the setting sun. Mr. 
Brewster observes that if, after having looked at that orb, a reddish brown 
spectrum be seen, a certain degree of pressure upon the eye Avill cause this 
image to change into a green spectrum, and that if the pressure ceases the 
image will resume its former color. 

Let us remark, in conclusion, that since the primitive impression ahvays sur- 
vives for some time the cause which has produced it, the accidental or subjective 
image must be regarded as in reality succeeding the objective image after a 
measurable space of time If, in the greatest number of experiments relative to 
subjective colors, we cannot seize the trace of that first impression which is ef- 
faced, it is because it is generally too fugitive, and the time of its existence is 
further diminished by the circumstance that, in order to give much intensity 
and duration to the accidental image, the object should be regarded for quite a 
long time. In effect, while the prolonged contemplation of the object increases 
the intensity and duration of the second phenomenon, it shortens, in general, as 
we have seen, the duration of the first. There are cases, however, in which the 
succession of the two phenomena is perfectly manifest ; thus, when M. Plateau 
contemplated the window during a space of time neither too long nor too short, 
he distinguished perfectly, first, the image of the window with its luminous 
panes and dark sashes, then the subjective image with the panes dark and the 
sashes luminous, &c. 

As Sclierffer has pointed out in his interesting memoir, we may convert these 
phenomena of vision into a source of amusement in the following manner : A 
bust of a man or woman is painted on a black ground in such colors as shall be 
accidental or subjective as regards the natural colors of such a figure. The 
skin would, in the supposed case, be of the color of bronze, the eyebrows and 



220 ON ACCIDENTAL OR SUBJECTIVE COLOES- 

hair white, the eyes would have the pupils white on a black ground, &c., which 
would of course produce a hideous representation; but on looking fixedly and 
sufficiently long at one point in this figure, and then casting the eyes on a white 
wall, there will be seen the appearance of a head with its natural colors. 

Second class — Simultaneous subjective colors. — All the appearances with which 
we have been thus far occupied sticceed the contemplation of the colored objects ; 
but experiment proves that even during this contemplation there is manifested 
another order of phenomena consisting also in the apparition of complementary 
colors, and which form the second class of subjective or accidental colors. Thus 
Buffon remarked that whilst we are looking fixedly at a colored object placed 
on a black ground, there is perceptible outside of this object and along its con- 
tour a colored border of a tint similar to that of the subjective image, which is 
obtained by afterwards casting the eyes on another part of the white ground. 
Here, then, it is not at a succeeding time, but in the contiguous space that the 
accidental color arises. Some physicists, however, have assigned this phenome- 
non to the preceding class of subjective colors, by attributing it to the circum- 
stance that, during the contemplation of the object, the eye cannot remain com- 
pletely immovable, whence the image vacillates on the retina, and around this 
image there are parts of the retina which, after having received the impression 
of the colored light proceeding from the border of the object, receive the im- 
pression of the white ground. But without speaking- of this circumstance, there 
are a multitude of other experiments which evince the production of accidental 
colors during the contemplation of colored objects. 

Let us refer in the first place to colored shadows. Thus Rumford has shown 
that when a shadow is produced in a colored light, this shadow is tinged with 
the complementary color; if, for example, a paper be illuminated with green 
light, a body illuminated with white light and interposed between the green 
light and the paper, will cast on the latter a red shadow. 

Thus again, according to the observations of Meusnier, when the interior of 
an apartment is illuminated only by the light of the sun transmitted through a 
curtain of colored stuff, and this curtain is pierced with a hole some millimetres 
in diameter, through which the direct light may penetrate, if this pencil of light 
be received on white paper, the part of the paper illumined by the white light 
of the sun appears vividly colored with a tint complementary to that of the cur- 
tain. 

Prieur, of the Cote d'Or, has shown that if we place between the window and 
the eye a piece of colored paper possessing a certain transparence, and apply 
on this paper a small strip of white pasteboard, the strip will appear tinged with 
the complementary color ; we shall see a rose color on green paper, lilac on yel- 
low paper, &c. The effect is more decided for certain positions of the colored 
paper, positions which are readily found on making the experiment ; moreover, 
if the small strip of pasteboard is itself colored, its own color combines with 
the complementary of the color of the paper. Thus a blue strip will appear 
violet On green paper, a yellow strip will appear green on orange colored paper, &c. 

Let us cite further an experiment made by Dr. Smith : it consists in applying 
to one of the eyes a small tube of transparent colored paper, on which a strong 
light is thrown sideways. Then if a white surface be looked at, both eyes 
being open, the portion of that surface seen through the colored tube appears 
tinged with the complementary color. 

[I have found the following arrangement to afford a very satisfactory means 
of exhibiting colored shadows : Place before the object-glass of a magic lantern, 
or before a convex lens through which a beam of light from the sun is passing, 
a plate of colored glass so as to cast upon a white screen or an opposite wall, in 
a dark room, a colored circle of, say, six feet in diameter. If on this circle the 
more feeble light of a candle is thrown, and an object, such as the hand, is in- 



ON ACCIDENTAL OR SUBJECTIVE COLORS. 221 

terposed between it and tb(? screen, an intensely colored shadow will be exhib- 
ited. By varying the color of the glass-plate or that of the light of the candle, 
shadows of different colors and of different intensity will be produced 

J. H.] 

Effect of contrast. — In the preceding experiments, the space whose color ap- 
pears modified is supposed to be of small extent relatively to the colored surface 
which surrounds it, and the color of this last does not appear sensibly altered : 
yet M. Chevreul has proved in a general manner that this modification of colors 
is reciprocal ; that is to say, that when we see simultaneous!}' two colored ob- 
jects placed in tin neighborhood of one another, their two colors seem to react 
simultaneously in such a way that to each of them is added the comphmcntary 
color of the other. Thus, when I place beside one another a red and a yellow 
object, the first will seem to tend more or less to violet, and the second to green. 
This reciprocal modification of the two colors is commonly too feeble to be per- 
ceived without having recourse to a particular expedient. The following is the 
ingenious process of M. Chevreul : two strips of paper or cloth of the two colors 
which it is proposed to submit to observation, one, for example, red, the other 
yellow, are pasted close to one another on a card; the strips should be J 2 milli- 
metres in breadth and o centimetres in length. Parallel to one of the strips is 
now pasted, at the distance of a millimetre, a second strip which is identical 
with the former in dimensions and color, and designed to serve as a term of com- 
parison ; the same operation is practiced in relation to the strip tinted Avith the 
other color, so that there are finally four colored strips, two of one color and two 
of the other. The two inner ones are in contact, and it remains to observe the 
modifications which they mutually produce on one another. With this view 
the card is to be looked at in a particular direction and for some seconds. The 
reciprocal effect of the two contiguous colors, which would escape us under or- 
dinary circumstances, becomes in this way almost always sensible, by help of 
the exterior strips which serve for comparison. Thus, in the example we have 
chosen of red and yelloio strips, it will be seen that the interior red strip will 
tend to a violet color, and the contiguous yellow strip to a green. M. Chevreul 
reports a great number of other examples which follow the same law ; it is ne- 
cessary to mention here only the following facts : 

1. If the two colors employed are complementary one of the other, as red 
and green, they enliven one another by their juxtaposition, acquiring a remark- 
able brightness and purity. 

2. If we place in juxtaposition witb white any color whatever, the former is 
slightly tinted with the complementary color, and the color employed becomes 
brighter and deeper. Thus, by the contact of white and red, the first becomes 
greenish, the second deeper and more brilliant. 

3. If any color be placed in contact with black, the latter takes, in a greater 
or less degree, the complementary tint of the color employed ; and this last ap- 
pears, in general, brighter and clearer. 

4. Black and white undergo, likewise, by their juxtaposition, a reciprocal 
modification ; the first becomes brighter, and the second deeper. 

5. The mutual modifications of colors are not limited to cases in which the 
colored objects that modify one another are in contact. M. Chevreul proved, 
by experiment, that they may be rendered sensible, even when the objects are 
five centimetres apart, though the intensity of the effect is less as the distance 
is greater. 

6. To these observations, derived from the memoir of ]\[. Chevreul, ^.[ Pla- 
teau adds another, which is verified every moment, and which may be deduced, 
in some sort, from 2, 3, and 4 preceding. When two neighboring objects differ 
in brightness, this difference appears, in general, augmented by their neighbor- 
hood; one appears brighter, the other duller, than if they were seen separately 
or surrounded with objects of a brightness equal to their own. Further, objects 



222 ' ON ACCIDENTAL OR SUBJECTIVE COLORS. 

moderately illumiuated may disappear completely, as is shown by the results of 
M. Brewster's observations, when their image is portrayed on the retina, in the 
neighborhood of a part of the organ vividly excited by the presence of a bril- 
liant object. Of this we may easily be convinced by regarding objects placed 
nearly behind the flame of a candle. These objects appear of a duller hue in pro- 
portion as their image more closely approaches that of the flame, and when the 
dis lance of the two images is very small they disappear altogether. 

In order to complete our statement of the principal facts relating to accidental 
colors, we add to the experiments already cited the following, which we owe to 
Dr. Smith: Place a hghted candle very near one of the eyes, (the right eye, 
for instance,) but out of the line of the optical axis; then hold in front of the 
eyes a small strip of white paper, and direct your sight toward a remote point, 
so as to see the small slip double; the image seen by the right eye will appear 
green, and that seen by the left eye will appear of a reddish tint. 

General law of simultaneous subjective colors. — Reflection on the assemblage 
of experiments which we have been reporting will show that they lead to the 
following conclusions : 

When we look directly or indirectly at a colored space, there is manifested, 
beyond the outline of that space and to quite a considerable distance, the appear- 
ance, more or less decided, of a color complementary to its own, a color which 
continues to decrease in intensity in proportion as the distance augments. White 
and black, brightness and obscurity, are assimilated, in this case, to two colors 
complementary one to the other. If two colored spaces or objects are near one 
another, the effect is then reciprocal , regard being had to the extent and bright- 
ness of each of the two objects. 

This development of the complementary color is especially distinct when the 
space on which we observe it is small and surrounded by a much more consider- 
able extent of the color which is to produce this complementary color, as ia the 
experiments of Rumford, Meusnier, and Prieur. The intensity of the effect is 
also much augmented if we contrive that the small space shall be feebly illumi- 
nated relatively to the colored ground on which it is projected. This serves to 
account for the colored appearances displayed in a great number of circum- 
stances. Thus, as M. Brewster remarks, when an apartment whose walls are 
of a bright color is illuminated by the sun, those parts of the furniture on which 
the light does not directly fall seem to be tinged with a color complementary to 
that of the walls. So, again, according to the observation of M. Chevreul, 
when designs are imprinted on colored stuff's or papers, the color of these designs 
is usually modified by the complementary of that of the ground- Fault has been 
sometimes found with the manufacturer from this circumstance, because the de- 
signs do not appear of the color which had been prescribed. In this case, it can 
easily be determined whether the difference is owing to an eff'ect of subjective 
color. It suffices to cut and apply some white paper in such manner that it 
shall cover the ground and allow only the design to be seen. 

It is known that the shadows produced on a white wall at the rising or setting 
of the sun appear blue or green. It is because the light of that body is then 
of an orange or red tint, and the shadows are tinged with the complementary 
color. When an apartment in which candles are lit is still feebly illuminated 
by the light of departing day, the shadows produced by bodies interposed be- 
tween the candles and white objects appear blue for the same reason. It is in'this 
way, also, that M. Necker de Saussure accounts for the remarkable phenomena 
presented by the summit of Mont Blanc at the setting of the sun. M. Arago 
thought that to the same cause might be attributed the blue or green color 
under which the sun appeared through the extraordinary mist of 1831, assuming 
that the mists or clouds near the sun may have been colored red by reflection. 

There is no one who has not observed that in a place partially illuminated by 
the sun, the parts which are in shadow appear much darker than if the sun 



ON ACCIDENTAL OR SUBJECTIVE COLORS. 223 

were so hidden by clouds that the shadow extended over all objects. On the 
contrary, the effect produced by the colored windows of Gothic churches pro- 
ceeds, in great part, from the circumstance of their being environed by dark 
walls. 

The facts which relate to this class of colors are susceptible of numerous ap- 
plications in all the arts where the assortment of tints is involved. M. Chevreul 
mentions a great number relating to the art of the upholsterer, figured impres- 
sions on paper or cloth, &c. For example, he remarks that it is never proper, 
in assorting furniture, to combine upholstery of a bright red color with mahogany, 
for the greenish complementary tint which is developed by such accessories 
causes the reddish color which is prized in mahogany to disappeai-, and the latter 
then resembles oak or walnut, &c. M. Chevreul also applies these considera- 
tions to the arrangement of flowers in a parterre. The principal rule to be ob- 
served in this case is to place blue flowers beside orange-colored; violet flowers 
beside yellow. As regards red and rose-colored flowers, they never appear with 
so much advantage as when surroxinded by verdure and white flowers. These 
should also be interposed between groups formed of blue and orange-colored 
flowers, violet and yellow flowers. We see that this arrangement is founded on 
the consideration that two complementary colors vivify one another by being 
associated, and that white heightens the tone of the colors which it is near. 
Considerations of the same kind are applicable to the female toilet. For exam- 
ple, the head-dress which would seem most advantageous for a fair complexion 
is a green hat, lined with rose; because the latter color is reflected on the visage, 
and the green which surrounds it further tends to add to this the effect of its 
complementary color. 

Advantage has also been derived from the effects which result from a difference 
of brightness in adjacent objects. Painters, in order to judge well of the effect 
of a painting, observe it through a black tube. The colors in this way acquire 
considerable vivacity and brightness. The magic effect of the diorama depends 
in part on the circumstance that the picture alone is well illuminated, while all 
that surrounds it, as well as the hall containing the spectators, remains in a cer- 
tain degree of obscurity. When it is desirable to produce a strong effect at the 
theatre, it is necessary to diminish as much as possible the light in the body of 
the hall. 

This second class of colors may be made to afford curious and amusing effects 
in the following manner : Let colored papers having a certain transparency be 
spread on a rectangular frame of wood or pasteboard, in such a way that half 
the rectangle shall present a red paper and the other half a paper of some other 
color; then let a flower, of which all the parts have little width, two or three 
millimetres at most, be cut out of white pasteboard; for this purpose the petals 
and leaves may be cut in open-work. This flower is now to be placed on the 
colored papers in such manner that the stem and leaves shall be relieved on the 
red paper, and the flower on the other colored paper. If the frame be then held 
between the window and eye in a certain position, the stem and leaves will 
appear green, and the flower will seem colored with the tint complementary to 
that of the ground. If we have several such frames, in which one-half is 
always red and the other half of different colors, the same white flower, applied 
in succession on different grounds, will each time take a new color. It will be 
blue on an orange colored ground, rose on a green ground, while the parts 
which would naturally be green continue of that color. 

Intrinsic nature of the phenomenon of subjective colors of the second order. — 
It has been seen that the subjective colors of the first class are sometimes fol- 
lowed by one or more reappeai-ances of the primitive impression. The colors 
which we are now examining sometimes present a phenomenon which is, in re- 
lation to space, what the former is in relation lo time. We observe, under some 
circumstances, that at a certain distance from the outline of the colored space, 



224 ON ACCIDENTAL OR SUBJECTIVE COLORS. 

the complementary tint is replaced by a slight shade of the same color with that 
space. Thus, in the experiment of Prieur de la Cote d'Or, when the small strip 
of white pasteboard has a certain breadth, ten or twelve millimetres, for exam- 
ple, it occurs, for certain positions of the paper, that the edges only of the latter 
appear to take the complementary tint, and the interior is lightly tinged with 
the same color as the paper : for example, on a red paper, the small strip will 
have the edges green and the interior rose- colored ; that is to say, at a certain 
distance from the outline of the red space, the green complementary tint is re- 
placed by a shade of red. 

It has also been seen that the appearance of the images of the first class suc- 
ceeds the phenomenon of the persistence of the primitive impressions. Now, 
we find, in regard to the accidental colors of the second class, a fact which is 
the analogue of the former. In effect, physicists recognize that the impression ■ 
produced on the retina extends a little beyond the space directly excited by the 
light ; so that if we observe a red object, for instance, on a black ground, the 
red image perceived is a little more extended than it would be if the sensation 
were limited to the space on which the red light directly strikes. From this it 
results, that if we consider the appearances which are manifested beyond the 
colored space, beginning at its real outline and proceeding outwardly, the im- 
pression of its color extends to a short distance, beyond which the complemen- 
tary color appears ; while this latter, as we have seen, is replaced at a still 
greater distance by a new development of the first color. 

Conclusions. — Recapitulation. — Thus, on comparing the two preceding classes 
of subjective colors, we see, that in the first, as soon a-s the retina ceases to 
be directly excited by the presence of the colored object, there occur : 1st. A 
■persistence, generally very short, of the primitive impression; 2d. The appari- 
tion of the accidental image; 3d. Usually successive disappearances and reap- 
pearances, more or less numerous, of that accidental image; and, in certain 
cases, alternate apparitions of the primitive impression and of the accidental 
image. 

In the second class, beyond the outline which the colored space or object 
would directly present, we find : 1st. A prolongation, to a certain distance, of 
the real impression ; 2d. Beyond that prolongation and to a distance usually 
considerable, a development of the accidental color ; 3d. Under certain circixm- 
stances, beyond the space colored by the accidental color, a space which in this 
case is of small extent, we observe a new development of the real color of the 
object. 

It will hence be seen that the phenomena of the second class are really, in 
relation to space, what the phenomena of the first class are in relation to time. 
There are other appearances which depend alike on these two sorts of accidental 
colors. 

Neio class of phenomena. — "We will cite only a few examples : 1st. When 
instead of placing the object which we are observing on a white or black ground, 
we place it on a colored ground of sufiicient extent, the color of the image after- 
wards perceived on casting the eyes on a white surface is not simply the com- 
plementary of the color of the object ; it is found to be combined with the color 
of the ground on which the object is placed. Thus a small piece of orange- 
colored paper placed on a sheet of yelloio paper, will produce a green accidental 
image on a violet ground ; that is to say, the image will be composed of blue, 
which is the complementary of the orange, and of yellow, which is the color of 
the paper itself on which the object was placed. Thus, too, a small piece of 
violet paper placed on a sheet of red paper will produce an orange-colored image 
on a green ground. These effects were remarked by Darwin, and depend on 
the two classes of subjective colors which we have been considering.. In effect, 
while we are observing an orange-colored object placed on a yellow ground, a 
light tint of violet produced by the neighborhood of the yellow will become 



ON ACCIDENTAL OR SUBJECTIVE COLORS. 225 

mixed with that orange color ; aud when afterwards the eyes are directed to a 
ic/iite surface, the phenomena of succession manifesting themselves, the orange 
changes into blue, and the violet which was mixed with it also changes into its 
complementary — that is to say, into yellow ; whence the image must appear com- 
posed of yelloit) and blue, or green. 

2d. When the object we look at is blach and placed on a colored ground, its 
accidental image always appears tinged with the color of that ground. Thus, 
a black object placed on a red ground will give a ^;ai?c red accidental image on 
a. green ground, &c. The effect is more decided with the eyes closed and cov- 
ered Here again, Avhile we wei'e looking at the black object, a light comple- 
mentary tint of the color of the ground manifested itself, a tint which, when 
we cease to look at the object, changes into its complementary — that is to say, 
into the color of the ground itself. 

3d. If, on the contrary, we look fixedly and sufficiently long at a small col- 
ored object on a black ground of adequate extent, and afterwards cover our 
eyes, the accidental image appears surrounded to a certain distance by an aureola 
lightly tinged with the color of the object itself. Thus, a red, object produces 
a green image surrounded by a reddish aureola ; an effect which evidently pro- 
ceeds from the circumstance that, during the contemplation of the colored ob- 
ject, the space which surrounds it takes, to a certain distance, a light tint com- 
plementary of the color of the object, and this tint afterwards, to the closed and 
covered eyes, changes into its complementary — that is to say, into the color of 
the object itself. 

Under the name of subjective colors are further comprised certain colored 
appearances, produced under circumstances entirely different : for example, 
when the eye is subjected to pre.*sure in the dark, or when a blow is received 
on the eye, or in certain indispositions of the stomach, &c. Of these we shall 
say a few words hei'eafter. 

DIFFERENT HYPOTHESES ADVANCED FOR THE EXPLA.NATION OP THESE SINGU- 
LAR PHENOMENA. 

Colors of the first class. — Theory of Scherffer. — The theory of which we owe 
the first idea to Scherffer seems now adopted, with a slight simplification, by 
the generality of physicists. It supposes that the sustained action of the rays 
of a certain color on a part of the retina momentarily diminishes its sensibility 
for rays of that color, so that if the eyes be then directed to a white surface the 
portion of the retina whose sensibility is thus modified can, for some time, only 
receive a complete impression from the constituent part of this Avhite which is 
complementary to the color that has fatigued the organ. Thus, on this hy- 
pothesis, when we contemplate fixedly and sufficiently long a red object, the 
part of the retina on which the image of tl^ie object is depicted becomes less 
sensible to the red light; and if the eyes be then directed to a white surface, 
'since this white may be considered as composed of red and green, an imago 
will be I erceived in which the green predominates. This simple and ingenious 
theory completely explains most of the phenomena relative to subjective colors 
of the first class ; the diminution of brightness of the colored object in propor- 
tion as the contemplation is prolonged; the increase of intensity of the image, 
the longer the object has been observed ; the combination of the accidental 
colors with one another, &c. Still there are important facts for the explanation 
of which this theory is evidently insufficient. Such, for example, are : 1st, the 
production of subjective colors in complete darkness ; how should the simple 
insensibility of the organ for a color produce, in the absence of all light, the 
sensation of the complementary color 1 2d. The combination of the accidental 
with the real colors ; if a red accidental image is occasioned by the retina hav 
ing become less sensible to green, how comes it that violet is seen when this 
15 s 66 



226 ON ACCIDENTAL OR SUBJECTIVE COLORS. 

image is projected on a hlue surface ? After having regarded fixedly a small 
circle of paper placed in the red ray, and then turned the eyes upon a larger 
circle illuminated by the yellow ray, M. Plateau distinctly saw upon the latter 
an image of a fine yellowish green, while, if the retina had simply become insen- 
sible to red, it could evidently have perceived only a blackish image. 3d. The 
apparently irregular process of decrease presented by the accidental images. 
The following fact would suffice, it might seem, to overthrow it completely : 
When, after having pressed his eyes in a particular manner, this pressure was 
made suddenly to cease, M. Plateau, his eyes being closed and covered, saw a 
large red spot bordered with green ; but as soon as he opened his eyes or cast 
them on a white surface, these two colors changed into their complementaries ; 
the spot became green and the surrounding border red. But here no exterior 
light had been present to fatigue the organ and to render it less sensible to cer- 
tain colors ; we have here spontaneous sensations of red and green, which 
change into sensations oi green and red. 

Colors of the seco'tid class. — Theory of contrast. — The most generally ac- 
cepted theory attributes these colors to contrast ; that is to say, to a moral 
cause which renders more intense our perception of whatever is unlike in the 
colors collated with one another, while it weakens the perception of what they 
have in common; thus a small white object being projected upon a colored 
ground — a red one, for instance — the effect of the contrast is to diminish our 
perception of the red constituent part of that white, and to exalt, on the con- 
trary, our perception of the complementary part, or the green. If, for example, a 
green object be placed in juxtaposition with a violet color, contrast will enfeeble 
the perception of the hlue, which is common to the two objects, and will enliven, 
on the other hand, the sensation of the yellow and red, by which they differ; the 
first of the two objects will therefore appear more yellow and the second more 
red, which is in accordance with the law indicated by M. Chevreul. If the 
objects finally differ in brightness, contrast will likewise intensify this differ- 
ence, as in the case, for example, of black placed in presence of white, &c. 

Without entirely denying the influence of contrast, M. Plateau thinks that 
this cause, though capable of increasing or even producing in certain cases the 
subjective phenomena of the second class, is not that to which they can be col- 
lectively attributed. His reasons are the following : 1st, how is it possible to 
admit that a moral cause should be competent to create, in complete darkness, a 
sensation of light purely imaginary, like that of the aureolas before mentioned ? 
2d, in the experiments of M. Chevreul, since the effect was manifested when 
two colors in juxtaposition had no ingredient common to them, the operation of 
contrast is more difficult to explain. Several physicists, Young among others, 
have attempted to extend to this second class of colors the hypothesis of a mod- 
ification in the sensibility of the retina, by assuming that when a portion of the 
retina is subjected to the action of any color the surrounding parts lose some- 
thing of their sensibility for that color. This theory, indeed, attributes the 
phenomena to a physical cause, but it is, nevertheless, wholly insufficient. 
What, in that case, would become of the phenomena of accidental colors pro- 
duced in darkness ? How should we explain the mauifestation, in certain cases, 
of a tint identical with that of the colored object at some distance from the out- 
line of that object ? &c. 

Theory of M. Plateau. — We shall, in the first place, remark with Scherffer 
that it results from the apparent change of magnitude of the accidental images, 
when projected on surfaces more or less distant; that these images are due to a 
physical modification of the organ. Such would, in effect, be the phenomenon 
produced, if it be admitted that a definite portion of the retina undergoes any 
modification ; for, as the resulting image corresponds to a constant visual angle, 
that image must seem to us the greater according as we refer it to a greater dis- 
tance. We see no reason, on the contrary, why it should be so, on the hy- 



ON ACCIDENTAL OR SUBJECTIVE COLORS. 227 

potliesis of a moral cause ; the image should then always appear lo us of the 
same magnitude with the object. Analogy, moreover, would lead us to regard 
the colors of the second class as owing, like the first, to a physical modification 
of the organ. 

If, now, we compare the accidental impressions with the corresponding real 
impressions, we shall soon see that the first should be regarded as of a nature 
opposed to that of the second : 1st, the opposition is evident for the case of a 
white object on a black ground ; 2dly, it may be said, in general, that two com- 
plementary colors are opposed, since their tints neutralize one another by pro- 
ducing white ; but, as has been seen, the opposition goes further in the case of 
a real impression and the corresponding accidental impression ; it then destroys 
the perception of brightness by producing black ; 3dly, while two complement- 
ary real colors produce ichite by their combination, two accidental complement- 
ary colors, on the contrary, produce black. 

The foregoing being admitted, let us recur to the collective phenomena which 
succeed the contemplation of colored objects, or which accompany the contem- 
plation. When a portion of the retina, after having been excited by the pres- 
ence of a colored object, is suddenly withdrawn from that action, it regains by 
degrees the normal state, producing for us the phenomena of the persistence of 
the primitive impression and of the accidental colors of the first class. 

On the other hand, if, while the retina is subjected to the action of the colored 
light, we examine the parts of the organ which surround the space directly ex- 
cited, we see that the normal state is not found except at a distance more or less 
considerable from the contour of that space, and that this normal state is reached 
in passing through the effects of irradiation and of the accidental colors of the 
second class. 

Thus, on the one hand, the persistence of the primitive impression and the 
accidental colors of the first class constitute the passage from the state of excita- 
tion of a portion of the retina to the normal state, when we consider that pas- 
sage in regard to time ; on the other hand, the irradiation and the accidental 
colors of the second class constitute the passage from the state of excitation ot 
this same portion of the retina to the normal state, when we consider this pas- 
sage i7i regard to space. All the phenomena, therefore, with which we are oc- 
cupied must be referable to the same principle; and M. Plateau has pointed out 
that they are connected with one another in the most natural manner ; that 
they are simple consequences of the law of" continuity. 

Let us examine, then, more closely the transition to the normal state in regard 
to time. When the retina is suddenly withdrawn from the action of the rays 
emitted from the colored object, the state of excitation of the organ at first con- 
tinues for some time, growing feebler, yet without changing its nature, and thence 
results the persistence of th3 piimitive impression; but presently this state of 
the organ gives place to an opjwsite state, whence results the subjective image 
of the object. This new sensation soon attains a maximum of intensity, and 
grows feebler in its turn, usually manifesting, however, an oscillatory progress, 
more or less regular, sometimes confined to a succession of disappearances and 
reappearances, sometimes alternating with recurrences of the primitive impres- 
sion. Now, it is impossible not to see a striking analogy between these phe- 
nomena and the movement of a body removed from a position of stable equilibrium 
and which returns to it by an oscillatory action. Are we not natui'ally led, by 
the whole train of phenomena, to admit that the retina, diverted from its normal 
state by the presence of a colored object and then suddenly left to itself, at first 
.regains rapidly the point of repose, but that, impelled by its own movement, it 
passes that point and attains an opposite state, whence it tends anew toward the 
point of repose, at which it finally arrives in a permanent manner only after a 
series of decreasing oscillations % 

If, now, we examine under the same point of view the transition to the normal 



228 ON ACCIDENTAL OR SUBJECTIVE COLORS. 

state iu regard to space, it will be seen that the state of excitation caused by the 
light emanating from the object is not limited to the portion of the retina directly 
struck by that light, but that this state is prolonged without changing its nature to 
a small distance from the contour of that position, producing the phenomenon of 
irradiation, which we will presently explain; that beyond this limit is manifested 
an opposite state of the organ, from which results the accidental color, and that, 
in certain cases, at a still greater distance, the color of the object is repeated. 
Here, therefore, we hare oscillations in regard to space instead of oscillations in 
regard to time, and we discover an equal analogy with natural phenomena ; it 
is thus, in effect, that in a vibrating surface the parts separated by nodal lines 
exist in opposite states ; that, in liquid waves, we find as we remove from the 
centre of excitation, alternate states of elevation and depression becoming less 
and less distinguishable. 

It is under this general point of view that M. Plateau regards the assemblage 
of subjective phenomena. This theory, so simple that we had ourselves adopt 
ed it before knowing that it bad been stated and maintained by the distinguished 
professor of Liege, does not merely explain all the facts, but almost enables us 
to discover them a ptiori. Let it be once supposed, in effect; that an organ 
which has been excited is then suddenly left to itself, and we cannot conceive 
otherwise than that it will return promptly, but in an interrupted manner, to its 
normal state, just as, during the excitation, it cannot be .supposed that along the 
outline of the excited space there should be an abrupt passage from the state of 
excitation to the state of repose. 

M. Plateau, in order the better to substantiate his ingenious theory, proceeded 
to submit to direct experiment the undulatory movement of the impression. He 
found, first, that the number of oscillations is greater in proportion to the 
greater length of time during which the object has been observed ; second, that 
this time, on the contrary, does not appear to have any mfluence on the duration 
of each of the oscillations taken separately. The manner of operating was as 
follows : One of two physicists regarded fixedly, during a stated number of 
seconds, a bit of orange-colored paper placed on a black ground in a well-lighted 
situation, and then turned his eyes quickly on a white wall. He then indicated 
with the greatest possible precision the moments at which the accidental im- 
pression attained its successive maxima of intensity, while the other observer, 
provided with a watch marking the half-seconds, noted the time. As many as 
eleven reappearances were thus verified by MM. Plateau and Quetelet. 

One word more on the before- cited experiment of Dr. Smith. M. Plateau is 
of the opinion that the green appearance of the image perceived by the excited 
eye should be attributed to the circumstance that a part of the light of the candle 
traverses the envelopes of the eye and diffuses on the retina a reddish hue; the 
white image, being environed by this rt d light, must then seem tinged with the 
complementary color, green. What confirms him in this opinion is that the effect 
is perfectly well produced when the light of the candle is prevented, by means 
of a small opaque obstacle held near the eye, from penetrating by the pupil, 
while it is still permitted to illuminate the outer parts of the organ. In this 
case, the image of the flame is in no manner depicted on the retina, and yet the 
red and green appearances are equally produced. If it be objected, says M. 
Plateau, that the red light which traverses the envelopes of the eye is dissemi- 
nated everywhere, and that it must diffuse itself also on the image of the small 
strip, which should consequently appear reddish and not greenish, I would answer 
by citing an analogous fact reported by M. Gergonne. 

Into one of the schools of mathematics in the college of Montpellier fronting 
the east, the rays of the morning sun in summer only penetrate after having 
traversed the foliage of the acacias with which the court is planted. On enter- 
ing this apartment, all the objects within it present a greenish tint, which seems 
to be gradually effaced ; but then another phenomenon succeeds — all the traces 



ON ACCIDENTAL OR SUBJECTIVE COLORS. 229 

of chalk upon the black-board become invested with Imo.s more or less rose 
colored. These traces, though receiving the green light like the rest of the 
tableau, are tinged nevertheless with the complementary color. M. Trechsel, in 
his memoir on colored shadows, has adduced, from experiment, an analogous 
phenomenon : let the sun's light, introduced cautiously by slightly raising the 
curtain for instance, be made to fall on the back of the camera ohscura when it 
is colored green by an object-glass of that hue, the place illuminated by the 
eun's light will assume a tint of pale red, without the presence of any shadow. 
If the object-glass be red, the light of day will cause the place on which it falls 
to appear of a greenish blue. In the observation of M. Gergouue, the white 
chalk re[)laced the white ray. 

M. Plateau's theory of objective colors is for us the precise expression of the 
facts ; it explains everything, nay, it foresees everything. There is but one 
class of phenomena which still leaves anything like serious uncertainty Colored 
shadows bear no resemblance to other accidental colors ; the latter are, in gene- 
ral, very difficult to perceive and very fugitive; the colored shadows, on the 
contrary, are vivid, well defined, persistent, and the mind, however convinced, 
repels with difficulty the idea that they are no illusions, no purely subjective 
appearance, but in truth real colors The following was said of them by Count 
Rumford, who produced them by receiving the eun's light through two small 
apertures perforated at sufficient distances to obtain two distinct shadows of the 
same opaque body, which apertures he covered with colored glasses : " The 
shadows," he says, " were tinged with an infinite variety of colors, the most un- 
expected and often the most beautiful; they varied continually, sometimes with 
inconceivable rapidity ; the eyes were fascinated, and the attention involuntarily 
fixed on this magic tableau, equally enchanting and new. The clouds borne by 
the wind seemed, each in its turn, to bring an endless succession of different 
colors, with the most harmonious tints." Happily, to the enraptured amateur 
succeeded the cool philosopher ; he would fain resist tlie testimony of his senses ; 
he suspects that these brilliant appearances are deceptive, and that they can only 
be the effect of contrast between neighboring colors; he therefore submits these 
charming illusions to the control of new experiments, and another light, that of 
truth, dawns upon him. He places a friend in the position he had occupied in 
order to be certain that these brilliant phenomena have not ceased, and limiting 
his own vision by means of a tube blackened within, directs it so as to see the 
shadows alone; and now, while the friend is in ecstacies over its brilliant color, 
the rigid investigator sees nothing but an obscure and colorless shadow. The 
demonstration is exact and complete, and it will be no further necessary to ex- 
plore these colored shadows with sensitive plates and papers in order to assure 
ourselves that in no manner do they produce the action indicated by their color. 
The memoir of M. Fechner on subjective colors, published in 1840 in the An- 
nals of Poggendorff, is the most recent treatise upon these subtle inquiries. We 
have studied it with great care, and if we do not here analyze it, it is because, 
while founded on observations well made and judiciously reasoned, it has seemed 
to us to contain no fact essentially new. On reading it, we have remained satis 
fied that, in the phenomenon of colored shadows, contrast alone, and not irradia- 
tion, is in action, and that the final reason of the problem is to be sought in a 
fundamental principle analogous to that of relative movement. This last prin- 
ciple, we know, consists in the essential fact that the relative movement of two 
or more bodies in motion by no means depends on the common forces or veloci- 
ties, but solely on the forces in excess, that is to say, the forces which act on 
some of the bodies without acting on the others. In like maimer, as regards 
light, the relative sensation that is really perceived by the eye, does not depend 
on the common tints, but on the excedent or differential tints Thus, the por- . 
lion of a green ground illuminated by a white ray on the white chalk, as we 
have seen, appears red in certain circumstances So too, if a white ground has 



230 ON ACCIDENTAL OR SUBJECTIVE COLORS 

been illuminated with a colored light, with orange for instance, and white light 
he made to fall on a shadow projected in that colored light, the orange ray of 
the white light will not be sensible to the eye, because it is common to the ray 
and to the ground ; we shall perceive, therefore, only the united sensation of the 
other rays contained in the pencil ; these will produce a greenish white tint com- 
plementary to the orange, and with this the shadow will appear to be invested. 

We are thus led to- distinguish three orders of subjective colors : the first 
would have its cause in the successive vibrations of the retina ; the second would 
be explained by irradiation, or by the participation of several portions of the 
retina vibrating simultaneously under the impression of a first excitation ; the 
third would find its reason in contrast, or the elimination of the colors common 
to the two rays which act at the same time on the organ of vision. 

We make no pretensions, however, to giving a definitive solution of this diffi- 
cult problem, and pronouncing in the last resort between two physicists so dis- 
tinguished as MM. Plateau and Fechner. Divided in a theoretical point of 
view, they have been, alas, too closely associated in a common misfortune. 
Victims of the experiments which they have pursued with excessive ardor, in 
the highly laudable but hazardous attempt to elucidate the natui-e of subjective 
or accidental colors, both have been smitten with blindness; Belgium and Ger- 
many have both been called upon to mourn the incapacity inflicted by that cruel 
infirmity on these noble martyrs of science. M. Fechner, after several years of 
suffering, has happily recovered his sight as if by miracle. It was our fortune 
to witness the restoration of the indefatigable physicist of Leipsig; with how- 
much joy should we learn the recovery of the gifted and laborious author of the 
admirable memoir on irradiation — a memoir which we propose presently to an- 
alyze, in order more clearly to illustrate what we have said respecting subjective 
colors. 

Researches of M. Chevreul on the laws of simultaneous contrast. — The pre- 
ceding dissertation comprises all that is essential in the learned researches of 
]M. Chevreul ; but we might reasonably be accused of injustice did we not give 
a summary account of the labors of our eminent compatriot, remarkable as they 
are in a practical point of view. M. Chevreul was the first who clearly stated 
this general law : in a case in which the eye sees at the same tinae two colors 
which are in contact with each other, it sees them as unlike as is possible; these 
mutual modifications of colors are not limited to the case in which the colored 
zones thus influenced are contiguous to one another, for we still perceive tbem 
Avhen these zones are separated. He has clearly established that whenever the 
eye sees simultaneously two colored objects, all that is analogous in the sensa- 
tion of the two colors undergoes such an abatement that all that is diff'erent 
becomes more sensible in the simultaneous impression of those two colors on the 
retina. The experimental demonstration of these two propositions essentially 
distinguishes his observations from those which had been made before. The law 
of these modifications being once known enables us to foresee the changes which 
two given colors, when we know the complementary colors of each of them and 
their relative tone, will undergo by juxtaposition ; for these changes must be the 
result of the complementary of the one being added to the other ; and if the two 
colors have not the same height of tone, that which is deeper will apj)ear more 
so, and the other will appear lighter than it is ; provided, however, that this last 
effect be not destroyed by the former. After so accurate and complete a study 
of the influence of colors, M. Chevreul might proceed with confidence to the de- 
tails of application. He teaches by turns the difficult art of assorting colored 
threads in such a way as to faithfully reproduce the tints of a painting ; of giving 
to paintings, to tapestry, to carpets the highest perfection of coloring ; of stamping 
designs on cloth and paper ; of adapting the accessories of furniture ; of giving 
greater brilliancy to the colored windows of cathedrals ; of distributing flowers 
in gardens ; of choosing and distributing the colors of raiment ; of judging more 



ON ACCIDENTAL OR SUBJECTIVE COLORS. 231 

correctly of the tints of dyed stuffs. He gives the reason of the fact, long and 
generally known, that an assortment of complementary colors is never disagree- 
able, showing from his experiments that these colors re-enforce and embellish 
one another by proximity, whatever difference may otherwise exist between the 
bodies placed in juxtaposition. He proves, on the other hand, tliat if the non- 
complementary colors which approximate most to the seven primitive colors are, 
in general, embellished by juxtaposition, they yet seem to the eye more or less 
inappropriate ; that the greater the analogy of colors the greater is the prob- 
ability that their mutual juxtaposition will be injurious to one of them, or even 
to both ; that if theory cannot prescribe, for the satisfaction of the eye, the 
arrangement of non-complementary colors in so decisive a manner as it is com- 
petent to do with regard to complementary colors, it is because of the impossi- 
bility of designating at present in a precise mannc r these innumerable colors of 
bodies in default of invariable types to which they might be referred, such as 
are, for instance, the colored rings of Newton. 

Chromatic scale of M. Nohlli. — These last expressions of M. Chevreul recall 
to us an excellent memoir of Nobili on colors in general, and particularly on a 
new chromatic scale. Author of metallochromy, that wonderful art by means 
of which he. obtained on plates of steel the most brilliant colors by depositing on 
their surface, through electro-chemical processes, thin coats of different saline 
substances, of acetate of lead for instance, and persuaded that science never so 
well appreciates its own interest as when it associates itself with the arts, the 
distinguished physicist last mentioned devoted long hours to the formation of a 
chromatic scale composed of forty-four tints, disposed according to the order of 
the thin layers or films which form them. This assemblage produced an inde- 
scribable effect ; it was of the same nature with that which is produced on the 
ear by a scale of semitones executed by an exquisite vocal organ ; so great, in- 
deed, was the pleasure of contemplating these colors which passed gradually 
from one tone to another, that the eye could scarcely be satiated with the view 
of so charming a spectacle. Nobili attempted to reproduce his scale in oil and 
water-colors ; but the best executed copies gave but an imperfect idea of the 
original colors, and since Nobili is dead, carrying with him not the secret of his 
art but the untiring application, the incommunicable dexterity which alone can 
with certainty produce uniformity of tints, science and art will, perhaps, have 
long to deplore the want of a gamut of colors universally adopted. 

A singular anomaly of the chromatic scale of Nobili particularly attracted 
attention ; the green was found far from the blue, between the red and yellow. 
Men of art were surprised at this inversion ; when the finest green tints of the 
gamut were submitted to them, impelled by habit, they placed them among the 
yellows and blues of the second interval ; but, in that position they fatigued 
the eye ; harmony was destroyed, and was not re-established except by returning 
to the primitive order. But in what consists this harmony ? It may be felt, but 
not defined. Its principal character in nature is the conjunction of two comple- 
mentary colors, or colors, as we have seen, of such a nature that one gives rise 
to the other. Venturi was right in saying : Agreeable and harmonious ahooe 
all is the union or succession of those colors which are in correspondence icitli 
one another, so that the sensation of one draws after it the imaginative sensation 
of the other. In this we evidently have but one of the aspects of the harmony 
of colors; it extends much further; but, in the present state of the science, it 
Avould be impossible to convey complete ideas on the subject. 

Nobili concluded his long memoir with some curious and useful remarks on 
the clearness, the strength, the beauty, the warmth and coolness, the liveliness 
and the gravity of colors. The clearest is the yellow ; a clear tint results from 
the mixture of little color with much white light ; a strong tint is the product of 
much color and little white light ; orange is the brightest, yellow is monotonous ; 
yellow and red are warm, light blue is cool; red and orange are gay, violet and 



232 ON ACCIDENTAL OR SUBJECTIVE COLORS. 

iudigo grave. Nobili undertakes to explain this last difference by an original 
comparison between colors and sounds. An exclamation, a cry of joy, are com- 
posed of notes which proceed from grave to shrill ; a wail, an accent of pain, 
descend from shrill to grave ; the same series of notes chanted by ascending from 
grave to shrill, or descending from shrill to grave, produces contrary effects ; 
gaiety in the first case, sadness in the second. Now, if we take the comple- 
mentary tints of red and violet, which are the bluish green and the greenish 
yellow, it will be seen that we pass, in the first case, from longer vibrations to 
shorter ones ; in the second case it is the reverse. This digression will be par- 
doned us, if only as a grateful recollection of the eminent and excellent savant 
who honored us with a share of his friendship. 

Singular effect in optics. — Before proceeding to treat of irradiation, we must 
notice a singular effect produced by the juxtaposition of certain colors which was 
observed by M. Wheatstone. This savant had remarked on some occasion that 
a carpet having a small green and red figure presented, when it was illuminated 
by gas-light and attentively observed, the appearance of a movement in all the 
figures of the design. To this optical illusion the name of palpitating hearts 
was given, because one of the figures of the pattern was a heart. M. Wheatstone 
made a trial of several other designs formed of other pairs of complementary 
colors, and ascertained that the movement Avas perceptible, but never so decidedly 
as with the colors green and red. He was not able to distinguish the phenom- 
enon except by the light of gas ; but M. Brewster afterwards perceived that it 
was produced also by the solar light admitted through a small hole in the dark- 
ened chamber. In order to explain this fact, M. Brewster recalls the experiment 
which shows that any fixed object appears to move when the light that illumi- 
nates it is constantly changing in position and intensity. The experiment is 
made by moving a candle before a statue rapidly and in all directions; the 
flashes of light and the shadows, incessantly shifting, produce different appear- 
ances which resemble the movements of the figures on the red and green carpet. 
In the case of the palpitating hearts, the mixture of two complementary colors, 
whether it be regarded directly or as producing accidental impressions, forms a 
succession of shades and lights which give rise to the apparent movement of the 
figures. When one of the Jiearts is looked at fixedly, it ceases to move almost 
entirely, while the others, which are seen obliquely, appear to vibrate in a very 
distinct manner ,• this effect is attributable to the augmentation of the sensibiHty 
of the retina in oblique vision, in proportion as the point which receives the 
impression is more remote from the opening of the pupil. 

IRRADIATION. 

Definition. — Irradiation is properly the phenomenon by virtue of which a 
luniiuous object environed by an obscure space appears more or less amplified. 
This apparent encroachment of the border of a luminous object on the obscure 
space which surrounds it, involves an opposite illusion in "the case of a dark 
object projected on a luminous field : the dimensions of this object appear di- 
minished, because the irradiation produced along its outline by the luminous 
field falls within the outline. A singular difference of opinion divided astrono- 
mers in relation even to the existence of aberration ; some admitting it, others 
calling it in doubt ; these doubts solely resulted from the fact that astronomers 
had not clearly distinguished the part played by ocular irradiation in observa- 
tions made by means of the telescope. 

Existence of irradiation. — To verify the phenomenon it suffices to cast the 
eyes on the luminous crescent of the moon. Every one knows that when the 
moon appears under the form of a crescent, while at the same time the rest of 
its ditrk IS seen faintly illuminated by an ash-colored light, the exterior outline 
of the luminous portion seems to protrude considerably beyond that of the ob- 



ON ACCIDENTAL OR SUBJECTIVE COLORS. 233 

scure portion ; in other words, the crescent appears to form part of a disk sen- 
sibly greater than that to which the rest of the planet belongs. If a decisive 
experiment, capable of being repeated at all times, be desired, it may be made 
in the following manner : On a rectangular blackened pasteboard. 20 centime- 
tres in height and 15 in breadth, let two white rectangles or windows, separated 
by a black band of a demi-cenlimetre in breadth, be left blank on the upper 
half; let this band, prolonged in blank, divide into two black portions the lower 
half of the pasteboard. Thus there are two bands of equal width, but the one 
white on a black ground, the other black on a wliite ground. To make use of 
this apparatus, it is to be placed vertically near a window, so as to be Avell 
lighted, and observed from a distance of four or five metres. The white band 
will now appear considerably wider than the upper and black band, and this 
apparent difference increases with the distance. It will be perceived that the 
apparatus is constructed in such a manner as to augment the effect resulting 
from irradiation ; for if, on the one hand, the white band acquires apparently 
additional width, the black band, on the other, is diminished by the irradiations 
of the two lateral white spaces. Irradiation, therefore, with the naked eye, 
must be regarded as one of the best established facts of vision, and one of the 
most easily verified. Its intensity is not the same in different eyes, and even 
varies in the eame individual, but there is no one who cannot observe it in a 
manner more or less distinct. In telescopes, it becomes complicated ; its effect 
is diminished ; the total error depends at once on the enlargement in itself, on 
the lustre of the image, the nature as well as state of the eye, and the perfec- 
tion of the instrument — qualities essentially variable. If, when micrometers of 
double image were employed to measure the irradiation, it has not been practic- 
able to find its sensible value ; if it has even occurred that the double image 
micrometer has caused an irradiation to disappear which had been realized by 
the thread micrometer, this depends on a cause revealed by experiments which 
have rigorously demonstrated the following general principle : two irradiations 
in presence of and sufficiently near one another, both undergo a diminution. 
This diminution is so much the more considerable as the borders of the lumin- 
ous spaces from which the two irradiations issue approach one another more 
closely. 

On the cause of ocular irradiation. — The theory of irradiation now univer- 
sally adopted consists in the admission that the impression produced on the eye 
by a luminous object is propagated on the retina to a small distance around the 
space directly excited by the light, so that the total sensation corresponds to an 
image somewhat greater than the true one. The principle of continuity on which 
this theory is founded is so simple, that, if the existence of irradiation were not 
known, it would seem that it might be foreseen a priori. Let us suppose, in 
efi'ect, that a luminous or illuminated body projected on a ground completely 
black, is attentively looked at. The light emanating from this object will strike 
a definite portion of the retina, and the rest of the organ will not be subjected 
to any direct excitation. But is it presumable that the parts of the retina which 
immediately environ the portioii directly excited should be in perfect repose ? 
It will scarcely be admitted that a state of energetic excitement and a state of 
absolute repose should be thus, in the same organ, in immediate contact. We 
are hence led a priori to think that, around the image of the object, must be 
manifested some appearance which constitutes the gradual transition between 
the state of excitation of the part of the organ subjected to the direct action of 
the light, and the state of repose of the parts more remote. Now, in whatever 
manner this transition is effected, it must be considered as altogether probable 
that the excitation is propagated to a greater or less distance, without a change 
of nature, around the space struck by the light, and that hence there will result 
the sensation of a larger image. Irradiation will be thus, in relation to space, 
what the known phenomenon of the persistence of impressions of the retma is 



234 ON ACCIDENTAL OR SUBJECTIVE COLORS. 

in relation to time. On one hand, wlien the retina, after having been excited 
for a certain time by the light emanating from an object, is suddenly withdrawn 
from that action, the impression still persists during some moments. On the 
other hand, while the retina is subjected to the action of the light emanating 
from an object, the impression will extend to a small distance around the image 
of that object. Both one and the other phenomenon would be results of a sim- 
ple law of continuity, in virtue of which, when a portion of the organ is divert- 
ed from its normal condition, the dynamic state which results can neither be in- 
stantaneously annihilated, nor subsist in immediate contiguity with a state of 
perfect repose. 

To these purely rational considerations, Mr. Plateau adds a great number ot 
facts, a few of which only will be here cited : 1st. We know that the small 
space which, in the retina, corresponds to the insertion of the optic nerve, and 
which is called the punctum ccectim, appears insensible to the action of the direct 
light ; hence, if a small white or colored object be placed on a black surface, 
and, closing one eye, we direct the other in such a manner that the image of 
this object falls on the point in question, the object disappears. Now, if instead 
of a colored object on a black ground, we place a black object on a colored 
ground, the object equally disappears, and the color of the surface extends itself 
over the place which it occupies. The most insensible part of the retina, there 
fore, is impressible by communication ; in other words, the surrounding impres- 
sion is propagated laterally over this small space ; the same then, with stronger 
reason, must be the case in the sensitive portions. 2d. It is a constant fact 
that irradiation augments with the duration of the contemplation of the object ; 
it is admitted, moreover, by physicists that by continued contemplation the 
retina becomes less and less susceptible of impression by the direct light; if 
these two facts be considered, the conclusion must be that in proportion as the 
direct light seems to lose its power over the retina, the propagated impression 
will be more strongly developed. 3d. On a colored ground place a narrow strip 
of white paper, or else trace a black line on a white surface, and let the eye be 
then fixed on another point distant from this small object some seven or eight 
centimetres, so that the latter shall be only seen indirectly. At the end of some 
instants, if the eye be kept motionless, the object completely disappears, and 
the color of the surrounding surface seems to extend over the place which it 
occupies. The lateral propagation of the impressions to the adjacent parts of 
the retina is therefore as nearly as possible demonstrated. 

On the whole, then, the theory which attributes irradiation to a propagation 
of the impression is supported by considerations of reason, analogy, and expet- 
iment. This same theory, moreover, explains the different laws to which the 
phenomenon is subject. Hence we infer, in the first place, that irradiation, a 
phenomenon of sensation, cannot, as experience confirms, be the same in different 
persons ; and that in the same eye it will be sometimes more, sometimes less, de- 
veloped. It results, in the second place, that irradiation must appear so much 
the greater as the luminous object is more remote; for, first, the absolute width 
of the small band of propagated impression which surrounds on the retina the 
image of the object, cannot depend on that object, provided the latter preserves 
the same brightness and continues to be projected on a ground equally dark; 
hence it follows that the visual angle, subtended by this same width, must re- 
main equally constant whatever be the distance. Now, as the observer neces- 
sarily refers the resulting appearance to the object itself, he must attribute to 
the small luminous band, which to him seems added to the contour of the object, 
an absolute width proportional to the distance which exists, or which he sup- 
poses to exist, between the object and his eye. In effect, if we imagine for an 
instant the appearance to be a reality, and that a similar small band is really 
added to the outline of the object, it can evidently not be seen under a visual 
angle constant and independent of the distance, except by making its absolute 



ON ACCIDENTAL OR SUBJECTIVE COLORS. 235 

width vary proportionally with that distance. If, now, we could demonstrate 
that this apparent augmentation really corresponds to a visual angle constant for 
the same eye and the same object, this demonstration would constitute one of 
the most powerful arguments that could be brought in favor of the theory in 
question; for this constancy of the visual angle is the principal character of the 
phenomena of vision, which depend on a modification undergone by a portion 
of the retina of a constant extent. This important fact M Plateau has suc- 
ceeded in establishing by the help of an apparatus which we will not at present 
stop to describe. It is sufficiently demonstrated, by a long series of observa- 
tions made on many persons, that the angular value of the irradiation i.-i inde- 
pendent of the distance from the object to the eye; and it thence resuUs, as a 
necessary corollary, that the absolute width which we attribute to the irradiation 
is, all things else being equal, proportional to the distance which exists, or which 
appears to us to exist, between the object and ourselves. Irradiation had not 
been observed hitherto by physicists and astronomers, except for remote objects. 
It will be found, however, to exist for small as well as great distances — only, 
the apparent effect diminishing proportionably with the distance, it strikes us 
less in the case of near objects; but, from the experiments of M Plateau, it 
may be accepted as an ascertained fact that irradiation manifests itself at all 
distances, from the shortest susceptible of distinct division to any degree of re- 
moteness. There was still an important question to resolve It was necessary 
to determine approximately the irradiation in the case of the same person in 
different circumstances. This M. Plateau has done, and has satisfied himself 
that for the same individual, and with an object of the same brightness, irradia- 
tion varies considerably from one day to another. 

In the third place, it is well established that irradiation increases with the 
brightness of the object, and, again, the hypothesis of a propagation of the 
impression on the retina renders the most satisfactory reason for this fact; for 
it will not be disputed that the more energetic the excitation, the greater will be 
the distance to which it is propagated. But observation further demonstrates 
that the augmentation does not increase proportionally to the brightness ; that 
its progress is much less rapid. For example, the angular diameters of the sun 
and moon being little different from one another, the brightness of the solar 
disk must be to that of the disk of the moon very nearly in the same ratio of 
intensity as the light which reaches us from these two bodies. But the bright- 
ness of the solar disk is nearly a thousand times that of the disk of the moon. 
If irradiation, then, increased proportionably with the brightness of the object, 
that which the sim developed would be enormous relatively to that of the moon, 
and the first of these orbs would present to the naked eye the aspect of an im- 
mense globe The aspect really presented to us by the disk of the sun compels 
us, therefore, to admit that irradiation augments much less rapidly than the 
brightness of the object which produces it. Hence it follows that if the law 
which connects these two quantities be represented by a curve having for ab- 
scissas the brightness, and for ordinates the corresponding irradiation, this curve 
will turn its concavity towards the axis of the abscissa? ; and as the increase of 
irradiation, at first very considerable when we commence with a feeble bright- 
ness, becomes at last insensible when the brightness attains a certain limit, the 
curve in question will have an asymptote parallel to the axis of the abscissaj. 

M. Plateau has sought to verify these conclusions by direct experiment, and 
to obtain the outline of the curve in question. To do so there was but one 
condition very difficult to fulfil — that, namely, of giving to the object successive 
degrees of brightness, at (mce determinate and having a known ratio with one 
another. This he accomplished in a very simple manner by taking advantage 
of a principle of photometry which we shall examine when considering the 
measurement of the intensities of light. 

It remained to appreciate the influence exerted on irradiation by the greater 



23 G ON ACCIDENTAL OR SUBJECTIVE COLORS 

or less illumination of the field surrounding the luminous object. As the dis- 
position of the retina to receive propagated impressions bears, in virtue of the 
facts and observations above developed, an inverse ratio to the disposition of 
the same organ to receive direct impressions, we are authorized to believe that 
when the light acts directly on a portion of the retina, that portion becomes, 
from this circumstance itself, less apt to receive a propagated impression. 
Hence it is readily conceived that if the ground itself on which the luminous 
object is projected conveys to the eye a certain quantity of light, the direct 
impression which it produces -will counteract the irradiation of the border of the 
object, and so much the more as the brightness of the ground is greater. This 
being granted, let us imagine an object which is projected on a ground not 
wholly deprived of light, and suppose that the illumination of that ground is 
made to increase gradually. The irradiation produced along the outline of the 
object will go on diminishing until the lustre of the field has become equal to 
that of the object. This limit being passed, if the former continues to increase, 
it is evident that the field will then produce, in its turn, an irradiation Avhicli 
will encroach upon the object, and which will consequently be developed in an 
inverse dii'ection to the former as regards the line which bounds the real 
contour of that object. The irradiation will have passed, so to say, from posi- 
tive to negative. This change, which is a direct consequence of the known 
facts, justifies the assumption that at the instant when the lustre of the field 
has beome equal to that of the object the irradiation of the latter is reduced to 
zero; and as the effect must be reciprocal, if, instead of an object and surround- 
ing field, two objects be supposed of equal brightness and in contact, the irra 
diations of these two objects will be null at the point or line where they touch 
This result has been verified. 

To evince directly the influence exerted by the greater or less illumination 
of the field, recourse may be had to the following means : We begin by stain- 
ing with black, for half its length, a rectangular piece of white paper, which is 
thus divided into two rectangles, one completely dark, the other semi- 
transparent; this latter half should be oiled for the purpose of increasing its 
transparence. In this paper we cut with the point of a penknife a longitudinal 
opening five millimetres in width, of which one half traverses the black, the 
other the translucid space. We then stretch this paper on a frame, or, what is 
better, paste it on a pane of glass. When this apparatus is placed against a 
window, it is apparent that the longitudinal opening will form a luminous band, 
one half of which is projected on a black ground, and the other on a ground 
possessing a certain degree of brightness, although much less than that of the 
band. If we now place ourselves at the distance of some metres, the two 
halves will appear to be unequal widths, the first seeming considerably to 
exceed the second. 

From the foregoing discussion it results that the hypothesis of the propaga- 
tion of the impression to the parts adjacent on the retina explains in a satisfac- 
tory manner all the laws of irradiation manifested to the naked eye. Unfor 
tunately, adds M. Plateau, when, in order to observe the effects of' irradiation 
we equip the eye with a lens, a wholly different order of facts is presented. 
Thus, while a certain apparatus observed with a naked eye and at the distance 
of distinct vision manifested a very apparent irradiation, the virtual image of 
the same apparatus, produced by a strong magnifying glass situated at the 
same distance, and possessing moreover perceptibly the same brightness 
exhibits no appreciable irradiation. We are thus led to this singular conclu- 
sion, that magnifying glasses appear to possess the faculty of considerably 
diminishing ocular irradiation. Is not this because the lens, by restricting the 
luminous pencil withoiit proportionably modifying its brightness, causes it to 
occupy a smaller space on the retina? M. Plateau does not say so, and does 
not attempt to explain this peculiarity. With a convergent lens of sufficiently 



ON ACCIDENTAL OR SUBJECTIVE COLORS. 237 

short focus, irradiation became too small to he perceivefl It is evident from 
this that in astronomic observations the eye-glass of the telescope must exert a 
decided action upon the irradiation which surrounds the image of a star. 

M. Plateau has shown that the modification which irradiation undergoes from 
the interposition of a lens seems to be controlled by the following laws: First, 
irradiation is diminished by convergent lenses; this effect, considerable when 
the focal distance is short, grows weaker as that distance increases, be- 
comes null when the latter is infinite, and changes its sign with it ; that is to 
say, irradiation increases, on the contrary, imder the influence of divergent 
lenses Secondly, experiments seem to indicate that the action of the lenses 
seems to depend only on their focal distance, and not on the absolute curvature 
of their surface. 

M. Plateau concludes his admirable memoir, written with the utmost clear- 
ness both of reasoning and style, by presenting, under the form of a summary, 
the following conclusions drawn from the doctrine of irradiation: 

I. Ocular irradiation. — 1. Irradiation is a well-established fact, easy to 
verify, very variable, but capable of being measured with precision under all 
circumstances. 2. It is manifested at all distances from the object which pro- 
duces it, from the shortest distance of distinct vision to any degree of remote- 
ness whatever. 3. The visual angle which subtends and which measures it is 
independent of the distance of the object. 4. It follows from this that the 
absolute breadth which we attribute to it is, all else being equal, proportional to 
the distance which exists, or which appears to us to exist, between the object 
and our eyes. 5. Irradiation increases with the brightness of the object, but 
according to a law much less rapid. If this law be represented by a curve 
having for abscissfe the successive values of the brightness commencing at 
zero, and for ordinates the corresponding values of the irradiation, rhis curve 
passes by the origin of the co-ordinates, turns its concavity towards the axis of 
the abscissae, and presents an asymptote parallel to that axis. The curve is 
already very near its asymptote for a brightness of the order of that of the 
northern sky. 6. When the field which surrounds the object is not completely 
deprived of light, the irradiation of that object is diminished, and the more 
strongly in proportion as the brightness of the field approximates to an equality 
with that of the object. If equality takes place, irradiation vanishes. 7. Henco 
it follows that when two objects of equal brightness adjoin one another, 
irradiation is null for each of them at the point or line of contact. 8. Two 
irradiations in presence of and sufficiently near one another, both suffer diminu- 
tion This diminution is the more considerable as the borders of the luminous 
spaces whence the two irradiations emanate are in closer proximity. 9. Irra- 
diation increases with the prolonged contemplation of the object 10. In the 
same individual and for an object of the same brightness, the irradiation varies 
considerably from one day to another. 11. Irradiation is modified when a lens 
is placed before the eye; it is diminished by convergent lenses, and augmented 
by divergent lenses. 12. This action of lenses seems to depend only on their 
focal distance, and not on the absolute curves of their surfaces. It appears the 
more decided in proportion as the focal distance is shorter. 1.3. The most 
probable cause of irradiation seems to be the one now generally admitted, 
namely, that the excitation produced by the light is propagated on the retina a 
little beyond the contotir of the image. By means of this principle, which is 
besides sustained by facts, we aie able to give a reason for ali the laws of irra- 
diation observed with the naked eye; but difficulties are encountered when the 
action is exerted by lenses. 

II. Irradiatiun obsernfd through astronomical instruments. — 14. The error 
produced in astronomical observations by wh.(t has been called in that case 
irradiation, proceeds from two causes essentially distinct — ocular irradiation and 
the aberrations of the telescope. 15. The part in that error which is due tc 



238 ON ACCIDENTAL OR SUBJECTIVE COLORS. 

ocular irradiation depends on the enlargement itself, on the brilliancy of the 
image, and on the eye of the observer. It is, moreover, considerably diminished 
by the action exercised by the eye-glass of the telescope, as a convergent lens 
placed before the eye, and this diminution is greater as the eye-glass is more 
powerful. As regards the eye of the observer, the effect will differ from one 
person to another, and, for the same person, will vary from one period to another. 
16. This same part of the total error vanishes in observations in which a 
micrometer a dovble image is employed. 17. The other part of the total error 
which proceeds from the aberrations of the telescope varies, of course, with 
different instruments; but for the same telescope it may be considered as con- 
stant 18. The effect of ii-radiation in telescopes, or the total error proceeding 
both from the ocular irradiation and the aberration.'? of the instrument, is neces- 
sarily variable, since it depends on variable elements ; it may be insensible iu 
certain cases, and attain a considerable value in others. 19. It is possible, even 
with an indifferent telescope and an eye very sensitive to irradiation, to obtain, 
by help of certain processes, results which may be considered as disengaged 
from this total error. 

Objections of M. Arago and reply of M. Plateau. — On presenting to the 
Academy of Sciences the able memoir which we have been analyzing, M. Arago 
developed various considerations which led him to dissent from the physical 
explanation which the accomplished professor of Ghent has given of his experi- 
ments. M. Arago also recurred to the observations made twenty-five years 
before by himself in order to ascertain whether the measurements of the planetary 
diameters, taken with his telescope a douhle image, were affected by any irra- 
diation ; he spoke of the influence which it would seem that diaphragms placed 
before the object-glass might exert over measurements of this kind, since they 
augment so sensibly the diameter of the stars. He announced, in fine, the 
early publication of a memoir in which he would take occasion minutely to 
record the result of researches which, on the one hand, touch upon physiology, 
and, on the other, connect themselves with several of the most important ques- 
tions of astronomical science. This promise was made in 1839 ; but the memoir 
never appeared. The following is the decisive reply of M. Plateau, as entered 
in the proceedings, to the objections of the distinguished secretary of the 
Academy : 

" In the session of the 6th of May last M. Arago occupied the attention of 
the Academy with my memoir on irradiation, and presented at the same time 
some observations on the theoretical part of the work. He thought that the 
physiological explanation which 1 had sought to establish could not be main- 
tained, and advanced a new theory, according to which irradiation is the result 
of the chromatic aberration of the eye. M. Arago's reasonings not having been 
printed, I am but imperfectly informed of them, and do not know how far they 
tend to refute the arguments which I have adduced in favor of the physiological 
theory. I shall therefore not repeat those arguments, but shall confine myself 
to an examination of the new hypothesis presented by M. Arago. 

" It is true that physicists do not now recognize the eye as a perfectly achromatic 
instrument, and from this non-achromatism it necessarily follows that the images 
of objects on the retina are surrounded with a small band of aberration, which 
must slightly augment the apparent dimensions of luminous objects projected on 
a dark ground, and diminish that of dark objects projected on a luminous 
ground. But is this effect perceptible under ordinary circumstances, and has 
the small band of aberration sufficient breadth to allow us to distinguish it, and 
to attribute to it the known phenomenon of irradiation 1 This is the question, 
and one, 1 thmk, capable of solution. 

" Let it fiist be remarki-d that by virtue of the very cause which produces it 
the small band which the chromatic aberration of the eye generates around 
images cannot be devoid of colors. Consequently, if the irradiation manifested 



ON ACCIDENTAL OR SUBJECTIVE COLORS. 239 

by a white object on a black ground is due to this cause, it would seem that the 
object must appear colored on its borders. Now, among all the observers who 
have occupied themselves with oculai* irradiation, not one has made mention of 
colored appearances, and in the numerous experiments which 1 have made ou 
irradiation, under a multitude of different circumstances, I have never perceived 
anything of the kind. This absence of visible colors can scarcely be attributed 
to the small angular breadth of the irradiation ; those in whom the phenomenon 
has much development will be easily able to satisfy themselves by repeating 
some of my experiments, or by observing the well-known appearance of the 
crescent moon, that the band of irradiation ia of quite suiiicient breadth to 
enable them to see these colors, if any existed. 

" In the second place, I see not how it would be easy to explain by this 
aberration of refrangibility that singular law to whicb irradiation is subjected, 
namely, that when two objects of equal brightness are separated only by a small 
interval, each of them diminishes the irradiation of the other in the parts oppo- 
site, and this the more strongly in proportion as the two objects arc nearer to 
one another, so that when at last they touch, irradiation is null for each of 
them at the point of contact. How shall we admit an action exerted by a 
luminous image on the aberration produced around another image ? 

" But we can easily decide by direct experiments whether ocular irradiation 
is or is not due to chromatic abei*ration. For this it will be suificient to ascer- 
tain whether irradiation is still produced when the object is illuminated by a 
homogeneous light. If, in this case, irradiation is no longer perceived, we shall 
he bound to admit as true the hypothesis which attributes the phenomenon to 
the chromatic aberration of the eye ; but if, on the contrary, irradiation still 
manifests itself, and to the same degree as with a compound light equal in bright- 
ness to the homogeneous light employed, it becomes impossible to seek in the 
aberration in question the cause of the phenomenon. Now, I have executed 
these experiments by the process which I here indicate. 

" The homogeneous light of which I have made use is that yielded by the 
flame of a mixture of alcohol, water, and salt. With this mixture I saturated a 
parcel of cotton wick, which I placed behind a roughened glass arranged verti- 
cally. The mixture, kindled in the dark, yielded me a voluminous flame, and 
the glass observed from the other side formed a luminous field of sufficient bright- 
ness. To render the light still more homogeneous, I interposed between the 
flame and the roughened glass a yellow glass of an intense color. Everything 
being thus prepared, I placed successively before the roughened glass the open- 
worked apparatus described in § 28 of my memoir, and that which has served 
for my experiments of measurement, after having brought, in the latter, the ver- 
tical edge of the movable plate into prolongation with that of the fixed plate. 
The two pieces of apparatus were thus projected on a field having considerable 
brightness and receiving a light so closely approaching homogeneity that on ob- 
serving them by refraction through a prism placed vertically at a distance of five 
metres, their images not only preserved great distinctness, but presented laterally 
only a greenish shade so slight that much attention was needed to perceive it. 
I should not forget to say that, in order to give to the eyes more sensibility, the 
experiments were not made by day in a darkened chamber, but at night. 

"Now, under the circumstances just described, and which would necessarily 
exclude the eflects which might have depended on the aberration of refrangi- 
bility, the above apparatus exhibited to me a highly developed irradiation. The 
same result manifested itself to MM. Burggraeve and Le Francois, who had as- 
sisted me in the experiments of measurement reported in my memoir, and who 
are consequently accustomed to judge of the phenomena of irradiation. In order 
afterwards to compare the effects produced with those to which a compound light 
of similar brightness would give rise, I placed at the side of the same roughened 
glass another like it, behind which I so arranged several lighted caudles as to 



240 ON ACCIDENTAL OR SUBJECTIVE COLORS. 

illuminate it in a uniform manner and throw a liglit on the second mirror equal to 
that of the first. An opaque screen served to separate the candles and the flame of 
the alcohol in order that each of the mirrors should receive but one of the two 
lights. I had thus two luminous fields of the same brightness, one of which, 
however, was illuminated by a homogeneous yellow light, and the other by a 
light which, without being white as that of day, was still composite enough for 
the case in question. 

"I then placed before these two luminous fields identically similar apparatus 
of irradiation, so that, by observing them simultaneously, it was easy to see 
whether the irradiations developed by the two lights sensibly differed. Now, 
this comparison, made by the two persons above named and myself, showed us no 
appreciable difference; each apparatus manifested a decided irradiation, but that 
which proceeded from the compound light had neither more nor less extent than 
that produced by the homogeneous light. 

" These facts seem to me to lead unavoidably to these conclusions : that if the 
aberration of refrangibility in the eye must needs be admitted, irradiation should 
be attributed to some other cause, and that the effect of aberration must be con- 
sidered as entirely masked, under ordinary circumstances, by the band of 
irradiation." 

This vindication by M. Plateau has remained unanswered. 

Colors produced in the eye by pressure or other indirect causes. — It is not 
light alone which produces in our eye a luminous sensation. It is well known 
thiit irritation, of whatever nature, which affects the retina occasions an impres- 
sion of light. Compress, for instance, the jugular veins, and, however profound 
the surrounding darkness, flashes and luminous rays will seem to glance before 
the eyes. Under numerous and common circumstances the most varied colors 
appear to us without the agency of external light. The chief accidental causes 
of the production of these colors are : 

1. Mechanical irritation or pressure. — A slight compression applied to the 
external angle of one eye produces a yellow spot in the same angle of the other 
eye if it is closed, and a blue spot if it is open ; every one can easily make ex- 
periment of this. Newton had remarked that a weak pressure with the finger 
on the globe of the eye or blow on that organ produced the sensation of color ; 
these colors he thought vanished instantly when the finger remained unmoved, 
but Brewster has proved that they continue as long as the pressure is maintained. 
He has shown also that when the eye is pressed so as to compi-ess lightly the 
pulpy substance of the retina a circular spot of colorless light is produced, al 
though the eye be in complete darkness and has not for hours been exposed to 
the light. If the eye is then illuminated it will be found that the compressed 
part of the retina is more sensible to the light than any other part, and seems in 
consequence more luminous. A slight compression of the retina, therefore, aug- 
ments the sensibility for the light it receives, and gives rise to a sensation of 
light. On the contrary, adds M. Brewster, when the retina is dilated under the 
influence of light, it experiences an absolute blindness or becomes insensible to 
luminous impressions. These properties of the retina often evince themselves 
spontaneously, with different modifications, in consequence of the movement of 
the eye by its own muscles. Pressure, when it is too feeble to produce a lumin- 
ous impression, may modify other impressions first produced on the retina. If, 
after having been directed toward the sun, the eye sees a reddish brown spec- 
trum, pressure on another part of the retina will cause a change of the spectrum 
to green, and the brown will reappear when the pressure has ceased. 

When pressure is applied at the same time to both eyes, the luminous appear- 
ances become remarkable in another way, and particularly in then affecting a 
regular form, which seems to be the same in all persons. If, for example, pres- 
sure be exerted on both eyes in opposite directions, whether to separate them or 
bring them closer together, there will first be perceived a bluish red light; then, 



ON ACCIDENTAL OR SUBJECTIVE COLORS. 241 

at the end of some instants, a light of yellowish white tint. Almost at the same 
time this light will he scparatoclas into small lozenges, which will distribute them- 
selves regularly upon a fasciculus of right lines converging towards the same 
centre, and which do not appear to deviate by more than 45° on eacli side from 
the perpendicular to the right line which passes by the centres of the two eyes. 
The fasciculus of right lines, shows itself but for an instant and appears to be 
transformed into hyperbolas, all having for a common axis the perptndicular 
just spoken of, and common foci wherein are seated two uniform and reddish 
spots; these foci then swerve aside and the groundwork of the brilliant tableau 
assumes an undulatory appearance. When the pressure has ceased or is relaxed 
there is no longer anything perceived except a black spot siuTOunded with yel- 
lowish light and covered with red and yellow filaments, which vibrate with great 
rapidity. ^\ hen the eyes are kept covered, this spot and the circle which sur- 
rounds it take in the end a uniform yellowish tint, which long persists and 
vanishes gradually. This phenomenon is rarely seen with all the circumstances 
we have described, because some practice is necessary to produce and to observe 
it, and the pressure on the eyes, which is quite painful, must be sufficiently 
strong. 

2. Electricity. — The galvanic commotion produces not only a species of flash 
before the eyes, but the sensation of different colors, according to the different 
application of the electric poles. When the zinc or positive pole is placed in 
the mouth, and the copper or negative pole in the middle of the forehead, the eye 
receives the impression of a spot of violet color; if the poles be changed the 
spot becomes yellow. 

3. Imagination. — This, in certain persons, acts in such a manner upon the 
organ of vision that if they represent to themselves any object, that object is 
instantly displayed before their eyes with its natural color and form. Goethe 
assures us that when he closed his eyes and thought of any flower it immedi- 
ately presented itself before him. Whenever Newton, after the experiment of 
which we have spoken, thought of the sun, that orb appeared to him at the 
instant, even in the midst of the most profound darkness. After the lapse of 
years he would have been able, had he chosen to encounter the risk, to repro- 
duce at will, by the power of his imagination, the sensations which he had be- 
fore experienced. 

4. Internal causes. — Sensations of color are also evoked by congestion of the 
blood, lympliatic irritation of the eye, inflammation, &c. In these particular 
cases of indisposition the pressure of the blood vessels on the retina produces 
floating masses of light visible in the dark ; first of pale blue, then green, then 
yellow, and sometimes even of red. All these colors are occasionally seen on 
the borders of the luminous mass 

Undulations excited in the retina by the action of luminous points and lines. — 
The following observations we owe to Sir D. Brewster: If we look through a 
narrow opening of about a demi-millimetre towards a bright portion of the sky 
or the flame of a candle, the luminous background will be seen covered with a 
great number of broken parallel lines, alternately lustrous and obscure. These 
lines arc always parallel to the narrow cleft, and naturally change their place 
while the clclt is turned circularly before the eye. Through a certain number 
of parallel clefts, as through the teeth of a comb, the parallel broken lines are 
seen more distinctly, and, if an oblique motion be given to the comb in the di- 
rection of its teeth, the broken lines hecome still more distinct, although not so 
straight as at first, and we see new black lines placed in different directions, a& 
if they were detached portions of a great number of dark ramifications. All 
these phenomena are better seen by employing homogeneous light. If we take 
two systems of narrow clefts and cross them under different angles, we shall 
see two systems of broken lines crossing each other under the same angles ; and 
if, when the lines of the two systems are parallel, we give to one of th(;m a 
IG s GO 



242 ON ACCIDENTAL OR SUBJECTIVE COLORS. 

rapid and alternating movement, perpendicularly to tlie direction of its clefts, 
the broken parallels will be perceived with particular distinctness. 

Phenomena analogous to those just described may be seen by observing 
black and parallel lines traced on white paper, like those which represent the 
sea on an engraved chart, or by looking at the sky through the luminous inter- 
vals left between parallel threads. If the eye observes these objects fixedly 
and continuously, the black lines soon lose their straight direction and their 
parallelism, and present luminous spaces circumscribed nearly like rings of a 
certain number of links. When this change takes place, the eye which ob- 
serves it feels a sensation of uneasiness — an effect which is produced also in the 
closed eye. When this dazzling effect supervenes the luminous spaces between 
the broken lines become colored, some with yellow, others with blue and green. 

The phenomena produced in these two experiments pertain naturally to rec- 
tilinear undulations propagated on the retina, and the interference and crossing 
of the undulations, in consequence of which the black lines are broken into de- 
tached portions and the colors are produced, spring from the want of fixedness 
in the head and hand, which causes a parallelism in the successive undulations. 

The action on the retina of small and dilating luminous points produces very 
interesting phenomena. If we observe the sun through a small opening situ- 
ated at a great distance from the eye, or the small image of the sun formed by 
a convex lens or a concave mirror, or seen on a convex surface, the light which 
falls on the retina does not form a clear and definite image of the luminous 
point, but emits in all directions an infinity of rays which cover, in certain cases, 
almost the whole retina. These rays are extremely brilliant and sometimes ac- 
companied by colors of singular variety and beauty. The glittering point 
propagates around itself circular undulations which are broken and colored by 
interference, and which, being in constant movement from the centre of the re- 
tina in all directions, occasion the irradiations above indicated. This curious 
phenomenon appears in all its splendor when we look at the luminous centre 
which results from the ignition of a jet of oxygen and hydrogen gas on a piece 
of chalk, or the combustion of points of charcoal at the poles of a strong bat- 
tery. HoAV often have we contemplated with surprise this circular zone of 
sparkling rays which appear under the form of discontinuous right lines scat- 
tered at equal distances from points by turns excessively brilliant and obscure. 

If we observe through a narrow opening the luminous centres just described, 
a very singular effect is produced. A vortex of circular rays exhibits itself on 
each side of the brilliant point, having a rapid rotary movement. This remark- 
able configuration of the rays is evidently produced by the union of a system of 
parallel undulations with a system of spherical or circular waves ; the intersec- 
tions of the parallel fringes and divergent irradiations form the circular rays as 
in the case of ordinary caustics. All these phenomena, adds Sir D. Brewster, 
•whatever be their true cause, evidently show that the light which falls on the 
retina exerts an action even on the parts which do not receive it directly, and ^ 
that the same action renders other parts of the retina insensible to the light 
which actually falls upon them. 

M. Peclet also has made an observation not less curious. If the sky be ob- 
served through a fissure half a millimetre in width dark stripes will be perceived 
irregularly distributed in the opening, but always in the same manner, whatever 
may be the size, form, and nature of the illuminating body ; they do not change 
even when this body is sufiiciently slender to yield fringes by diffraction ; and 
Avhen the opening is covered by a colored glass, the stripes seen through the 
glass are on the prolongation of those which are formed in the free part of the 
fissure. These stripes change place and become weaker when the width of the 
opening is increased ; beyond a millimetre only very indistinct ones are per- 
ceptible near the borders. If the fissure is more remote, the stripes become less 
numerous, and entirely disappear at the distance of distinct vision. When a 



ON ACCIDENTAL OR SUBJECTIVE COLORS. 243 

narrow fissure is before the eyes, and either the fissure or the head is inclined, 
the stripes change their place and arrangement. From these facts it seems evi- 
dently to result that the stripes in question are formed in the eye. Their origin 
may be satisfactorily explained by admitting that there exists in the organ a 
certain number of obscure points of very small diameter ; for each luminous 
point of the fissure will project on the retina a shadow of that point, and the 
series of shadows projected by the different points? of the fissure form a dark line 
which will be parallel to it; this hypothesis meets all the requirements of the 
phenomenon. The accuracy of this explanation is confirmed, moreover, by de- 
cisive experiments. Let a plate of glass, on which has been made with India 
ink a very small black point, be placed between the eye and a narrow fissure, 
and a dark stripe will be seen parallel to the fissure If the sky be observed 
through a narrow fissure whose length we can at will diminish by means of a 
movable plate whose edge is perpendicular to its direction, when the orifice has 
a length which differs little from the width, we shall perceive a circular field 
strewn with dark points, always disposed in the same manner in regard to the 
eye ; and by the elongation of the fissure each dark point produces a stripe. 
As to the nature of the dark points of the eye, M. Peclet thinks that they pro- 
ceed fiom the mammillated structure of the transparent cornea, or from the en- 
velope of the aqueous humor ; for each little mammilla will act as a lens of short 
focus; the light which traverses them will be dispersed in a very open cone; 
and each of them will cast upon the retina a shadow like an opaque body. 

We must seek in the stripes of M. Peclet the explanation of an illusion by 
which M. Zantedeschi has allowed himself to be deceived. This Italian physi- 
cist has announced to the learned world, as a discovery worthy of attention and 
one which had escaped the penetrating eye of Fraunhofer, the presence in the 
solar spectrum of bands not transversal, but longitudinal or parallel to the 
lengthwise dimensions of the spectrum. Had they existed as an integral part 
of the spectrum, equally with the bands of Fraunhofer, these new dark bands 
would have been wholly inexplicable, or rather uninteUigible. They are fortu- 
nately but an extrinsic peculiarity ; they doubtless proceed either from the par- 
ticles of dust inseparable from the edges of the fissure, or perhaps from the dark 
globules of the eye. 

There remains to be noticed a singular fact observed by M. Libri. If a black 
and vertical line of little length be traced on a white wall, and we station our- 
selves at a little distance from this wall, a distance which will vary, for the same 
observer, with the width of the line, the quantity of reflected light, &c. ; if, 
further, after having closed one eye, a very slender thread be placed near the 
other, so that in looking at the wall and the line there traced, the image of the 
thread shall seem to cut this line obliquely, the thread will appear, at the point 
of intersection, to be divided, so to say, into two parts, one of which will be 
elevated parallel to its first direction, and the other will be lowered. These 
parts will leave between their corresponding extremities a small void space, which 
will be precisely the place that the true image ought to occupy. It should be 
observed that the superior part will always appear lowered, and the inferior 
part, on the contrary, will appear above its real height. If the obliquity of the 
thread be diminished, and little by little its projection be brought to cut perpen- 
dicularly the line traced on the wall, the two extremities of the images will be 
seen gradually to approach each other, and then to form a single thread ; and 
finally the same appearances will present themselves in an inverse direction, 
when by continuing to make the thread turn, we render it again oblique in a 
position opposite to the first. 

On ■processes to render visible the ramifications of the retina. — The following 
experiment has facilitated, in a physiological point of view, the explanation of 
a certain number of facts ; we owe it to Professor Purkinje, of Breslau : If a 
lighted candle be held before the eye, at the distance of about a foot, in a dii-ec- 



244 ON ACCIDENTAL OE SUBJECTIVE COLOES 

tion a little deviating from the line of distinct vision, the eye perceives, in gen- 
eral, a mass of reddish light around the candle, and, in this light, as on a back- 
ground, may be seen the ramifications of the sanguineous vessels of the retina, 
the base of the optic nerve and the foramen centrale. 

Sir D. Brewster holds it to be the better opinion that the light which sur- 
rounds the candle is reflected on the retina by the inner concave surface, whether 
of the crystalline or the cornea, and that the objects are, in one way or another, 
amplified by the concave surfaces. His own opinion on the subject is that the 
light is propagated from the luminous image of the candle, and that the retina, 
in contact with the blood-vessels, is insensible to the propagated light, although 
sensible to the direct light ; and consequently the blood-vessels would be delin- 
eated in dark lines. As the retina does not extend over the foramen centrale, it 
would at this point naturally present a black spot, and, as to the confused vision 
of .the optic nerve, the latter appears less luminous than the surrounding retina. 

M. Wheatstone, who has varied this experiment in different ways, says that 
it succeeds best in a dark chamber. When, one of the eyes being withdrawn 
from the action of the light, the flame of a candle is placed beside the unshielded 
eye, so as not to occupy the least of the central part of the field of vision, then, 
so long as the candle is at rest, nothing is observed but a diminution of the sen- 
sibility of the retina for the light ; but when the flame is moved, by raising or 
lowering it within a small limit, for a space of time which varies with the sen- 
sibility of the individual on whom the experiment is tried, the phenomenon pre- 
sents itself spontaneously. The blood-vessels of the retina, M'ith all their rami- 
fications, exactly as they are represented in the plates of Sommering, distinctly 
show themselves, and are projected apparently on a plane before the eye, with 
amplified dimensions. The image continues manifest only while the light is in 
motion, and disappears immediately or soon after it has passed to a state of 
rest. 

M. Wheatstone does not accept the ingenious explanation of this appearance 
offered by Sir D. Brewster ; he thinks there is no difficulty in accounting for 
the image ; that it is evidently the shadow resulting from the obstruction of the 
light by the blood-vessels spread over the retina. The real difficulty was in 
explaining why this shadow is not always visible. To account for this, M. 
Wheatstone advances different facts which tend to prove that an object more or 
less brilliant than the ground on which it is placed, becomes invisible when it is 
continually presented to the same point of the retina, and the rajndity of its dis- 
appearance is so much the greater as the difference of the luminous intensities 
between the object and the background is less ; but, by changing continually the 
flace of the image of the object on the retina, or by causing it to act intcrmit- 
tingly on the same point, the object may be rendered visible in a permanent 
manner. 

Applying this explanation to the phenomenon in question, M. Wheatstone 
observes that every time the flame of the candle changes its place, the shadows 
of the vessels fall on different points of the retina, which is evident from the 
movement of the image while the eye remains at rest, a movement which is 
always in a contrary direction to that of the flame : hence the shadow, by thus 
changing its place on the retina, remains, according to the law previously estab- 
lished, visible in a permanent manner ; but when the flame is at rest, the shadow 
also is at rest, and consequently disappears. 

M. Wheatstone has contrived an instrument for showing a singular modification 
of this experiment. It consists of a circular concave plate of metal, about two 
inches in diameter, blackened on the exterior face, and perforated at its centre 
with a hole nearly equal to the bore of a light gun ; on the interior face is fixed 
a similar concave plate of roughened glass. By placing the opening between the 
eye and the flame of a candle and setting the plate in motion, so as continually to 
displace the image of the opening upon the retina, the blood-vessels will be seen 



ON ACCIDENTAL OR SUBJECTIVE COLORS. 245 

as before, but in a brighter manner, and the spaces between the ramifications 
exhibit an innumerable quantity of small vessels, which anastomose in different 
directions, and which were invisible in the preceding experiment. At the very 
centre of the field of vision there is a small circular space in which no trace of 
vessels is seen. 

M. Melloni on the coloring of the retina and the crystalline. — According to 
the theory which we have long developed and defended, vision is the result of 
extremely rapid vibrations excited in the retina by a certain series of ethereal 
undulations. The vibrations will depend less on tlie quantity of movement 
than on the particular disposition of the retina which renders it apt to vibrate 
with more or less facility, in unison with such or such an ethereal vibration; 
this, in terms of acoustics, would be a sort of resonance, proceeding from the 
accord or harmonic relation established between the tension of the molecular 
groups of the retina and the period of undulation of the incident ray. Those 
undulations, which are between the yellow and the orange, which correspond, as 
Fraunhofer has proved, to the maximum of luminous intensity, will better har- 
monize witb the constitution of the retina, and will communicate to the molecules 
a more intense vibratory movement. The quantity of light perceived would de- 
pend on the intensity of the molecular vibrations, and the color on the number 
of the vibrations. By assuming that the red and violet undulations find in the 
retina a less perfect consonance than the yellow undulations, it will be readily 
comprehended that the former give a less quantity of lig'nt. This hypothesis 
is the more plausible, inasmuch as, followed to its final consequences, it leads to 
a very happy explanation of the obscure radiations, chemical or calorific, situ- 
ated outside of the solar spectrum, radiations endowed, as will be shown farther 
on, with all the properties of luminous rays, visibility excepted. 

It must needs, then, be admitted that the ethereal undulations of different 
colored bands of the spectrum have a different aptitude for exciting the vibra- 
tions of the retina, and that the maximum of effect pertains to the yellow. 

It has been shown that the substances which vibrate with the same fiicility 
under the action of luminous undulations of any length whatever are white ; 
colored substances, on the contrary, are those which vibrate with more intensity 
under the influence of one or of several species of luminous undulations, while 
showing themselves less sensible to others. Now, it is a constant fact that the 
yellow undulations produce by consonance the maximum of effect on the retina. 
The retina, then, must be yellow, and not colorless, as has been thought till 
now. This conclusion rests on a perfect analogy of luminous properties be- 
tween the retina and the different bodies of nature. It may be conceived, how- 
ever, that the vital force might communicate to the retina, even if white, a degree 
of excitability more in unison with the color of yellow. To decide, therefore, 
this question of the color of the retina, appeal must of necessity be had to ob- 
servation, and this has been done by M. Melloni. 

We must presume, he says, that no observer sufliciently experienced has 
examined with attention this precious membrane; for, otherwise, he would cer- 
tainly have recognized that it possesses a yellow tint very distinguishable. If 
we attentively observe a section of the retina, it will be seen that its thickness 
increases from the borders to the centre, occupied by the yellow spot of Sum- 
mering, or rather of Buzzi, an Italian physician, who discovered it in 1782. 
Nor is it the central and thickest part of the retina alone which is and which 
exhibits a yellow tint to' the eye, whether naked or equipped with a microscope ; 
it is the entire retina, and if near the border the color is no longer distinct, it is 
solely on account of the exces.<ive thinness of the membrane. The yellow color, 
indeed, cannot be mistaken when the retina is observed under an oblique inci- 
dence, or when the thin portions are folded upon themselves. In the eye of a 
man dead with the symptoms of very intense jaundice, the whole retina had a 



246 ON ACCIDENTAL OE SUBJECTIVE COLOES. 

most decided tint, and the central spot had acquired an extraordinary vivacity of 
coloration. 

The yellow of the central spot, which in our view constitutes the natural 
color of the retina, fades and disappears as age advances — an observation which 
M. Melloni has not found reported in any treatise on physics. It presents itself, 
however, in a very marked manner on a comparison of retinas taken at different 
epochs of life. From the change of color in the retina there would necessarily 
result an alteration in regard to the perception of the elementary rays ; but, by 
one of those innumerable provisio'ns which surprise us at every step in the 
science of the development of organized beings, nature has taken measures to 
repair the effects of this disorder. The crystalline is perfectly limpid and color- 
less up to the age of twenty-five or thirty years ; but this period having passed, 
we see it assume a very slight tint of straw-colored yellow, which is developed 
at first on the central part, afterwards attains the borders, augments progressively 
in value, and finally becomes, in aged persons of seventy-five or eighty years, 
quite as decided as the color of yellow amber. If we consider the effect pro- 
duced upon the sight by this new development of color, it will be at once com- 
prehended that the yellow acquired by the crystalline is destined to repair the 
loss of that tint in the retina. To show that the sum of the two variations 
really compensate for one another, M. Melloni procured a number of eyes of very 
different ages, and, having extracted the crystallines, he placed the latter on the 
central parts of the corresponding retinas; all the systems were thus found to 
present the same shade of yellow. . The experiment carried to the two opposite 
limits is one of great interest; for in early youth the coloration, which is not 
yet developed in the crystalline, is amply manifested on the retina, while in de- 
crepitude it has entirely retreated to the crystalline, leaving no trace of itself 
on the retina. The aged crystalline placed beside the young retina presents the 
same tint, notwithstanding the vast difference of constitution. 

The appearance and progress of the yellow tint in the crystalline constitutes, 
therefore, a true process of what might be called attuning, put in operation by 
nature for the purpose of maintaining at the same luminous pitch the instrument 
of vision. It can thus be understood why white continues to be white for our 
eyes at all the epochs of life, notwithstanding the increasing coloration of the 
crystalline and the interposition of a yellow medium . between external objects 
and the retina. 

DALTONISM, OR INNATE IMPERFECTIONS IN THE PERCEPTION OF COLORS. 

Definition. — There are persons whose eyes are incapable of distinguishing 
colors. They readily perceive the form of objects, distinguish light from dark- 
ness, appreciating the slightest differences ; but they mistake certain colors. Their 
retina, insensible for some tints, cannot transmit their impression to fEe brain. 
The number of such persons is much more considerable than is generally thought. 
Of forty youths who pursued the higher studies of the gymnasium at Dresden, 
M. Seebeck found five to be daltonians, some of whom, however, were without 
consciousness ot their infirmity. One of the singular features of the defect is 
that it is often hereditary. Three remarkable memoirs — published, one, in 1837, 
by M. Seebeck, jr.; the second, at Geneva, by M. Elie Wartman; the third, at 
Paris, by M. Victor Zokalski, in 1841 — seem to embrace all that relates to this 
difficult question, and to the analysis of these we propose to devote a few pages. 

Observations. — As all researches on the subject set out with the observations 
made by Dalton on himself, an account of which he inserted in the memoirs of 
the Literary Society of Manchester, we shall give substantially a transcription 
of it: "I had always thought," says Dalton, "that their true name was often 
not applied to colors. Violet, to designate the flower of that color, seemed, of 
course, proper ; but if the term red were substituted, this license appeared to 



ON ACCIDENTAL OR SUBJECTIVE COLORS. 247 

me neither just nor natural. Blue, to be sure, might be permitted to replace the 
word violet, for these two colors appear to me closely analogous, while red and 
violet bear no relation to one another. When pursuing my scientific studies I 
gave particular attention to optics. The theory of light and of colors was 
familiar to me before I had discovered the defect of my vision, a defect which I 
had always attributed to the confusion prevailing in the terminology of colors. 
In the course of the year 1790 I occupied myself with botany, and this study 
involved a particular notice of colors. White, yellow, or green I called with- 
out hesitation by its proper name; while for me there was little difference be- 
tween purple, violet, and crimson. I would often ask my friends which color 
was blue and which violet; but the inquiry was taken for a pleasantry and an- 
swered slightingly. Meanwhile the peculiarity of my vision was not clearly 
known to myself till the autumn of 1792. I was one day examining the flower 
of the geranium zonule by the light of a candle. This flower, which by day- 
light appears to me blue, and which is, in ffict, violet, now seemed entirely 
changed. The supposed blue color had wholly disappeared and given place to 
red, which is for me the exact opposite of blue. I doubted not that this change 
occurred to every one, and asked some of my friends if it were so. Judge of 
my surprise when I learned that ng one, except my brother, saw as I did. This 
observation taught me that my vision, as well as my brother's, differed from 
that of the rest of the world, and that artificial light produced to us changes of 
color which were not perceived by other persons. 

" Two years passed before I applied myself to serious inquiry on the subject; 
at the end of which time I availed myself of the services of a friend profoundly 
skilled in the theory of colors, their distinctions, and constitution. I am near- 
sighted, and the eye- glasses which suit me best are of five-inch focus. I see 
Avell at a convenient distance ; but when the weather is obscure or too bright I 
distinguish with difficulty. It was on the solar spectrum that I commenced my 
observations; six colors are there universally recos'nized : red, orange, yellow, 
green, blue, and purple, which last Newton divided into two others, indigo and 
violet. As for myself, I recognize in the spectrum but two, or at most perhaps 
three colors — the yellow, the blue, and the purple. My yellow comprises the 
red, orange, yellow, and green of all the world ; my blue is so confounded with 
the purple that I hardly discern them to be other than one and the same color. 
The part of the spectrum which is called red seems to me scarcely anything 
else but a shadow or an absence of light. The yellow, orange, and green are, 
for me, the same color with different degrees of intensity. The point of the 
spectrum at which the green touches the blue presents to me a highly siriking 
contrast and a most decided difference. Tiie distinction of blue and purple -is 
far from being so marked ; for the purple, in my estimate, is but a mixture of 
blue and shadow. When I look at the flame of a candle through a prism, nearly 
the same phenomena present themselves ; yet the red seems more lively than 
that of the solar spectrum. The following is a statement of the manner in which 
each color is presented to me, whether by solar or by artificial light : 

" Red : By daylight I comprise under this name crimson, scarlet, red, and 
violet. Crimson resembles blue with which has been mingled a shade of deep 
brown, its varieties not being so different as to be distinguishable. This color 
appears to me grave m the presence of bright colors. Blue cloth and crimson 
offer me no decided difference. Violet is composed of red and blue, but it pro- 
duces no other impression on me than that of a pale and faint blue ; if placed 
beside bright blue it seems the same color, only somewhat tarnished. I regard 
as blue the rose, the violet, the common clover, and several kinds of geranium. 
A spot of common ink on white paper is, for me, of the same color wiih the 
cheek of a person glowing with health. The red and scarlet form an entirely 
different class from the preceding colors ; I perceive in them not the least trace 
ol blue ; the scarlet is rather brighter than the red. Blood, in my view, has a 



248 ON ACCIDENTAL OE SUBJECTIVE COLORS. 

deep bottle-green color. By caudle-light red and scarlet become more brilliant 
and vivid. These two colors, which by day present a deep cineritious gray, 
assume a strange brilliancy under an artificial light. Crimson loses its blue and 
changes into a yellowish green. But it is the violet which changes most, and 
presents the greatest difference when seen by day or by candle-light ; here there 
is no longer a trace of blue, but it seems to be composed of yellow and red, as 
by day it is composed of red and blue. As to yellow and orange, my vision is 
absolutely the same with that of all the world, as seen by day or by artificial 
light. 

" Green by daylight : I am certain that of this color I have a peculiar idea; 
it seems to me but little different from red. In order to recognize in it a pecu- 
liar tint I in vain place a bay leaf beside a stick of sealing-wax : hence it may 
be safely inferred that I see green or red, or both colors, differently from the 
rest of the world. Orange and bright green appear to me to have much resem- 
blance. The green most agreeable to me is that which is very deep, and it be- 
comes the more distinct as it verges upon yellow. I recognize plants as well as 
another, and am able, like others, to appreciate their differences or resemblances. 
Nevertheless, an infusion of tea, or a solution of liver of sulphur, whatever they 
may be to others, are green for me ; the green cloth which covers some tables 
appears to me brown and soiled, and I am persuaded that a mixture of brown 
and red would, to my eyes, well replace that color ; but when such cloth begins 
to grow old and becomes yelloAv to others, then only does it assume for me a 
green tint. Like all the world, I find a difficulty in distinguishing green by 
artificial light, which for me, as for others, then closely approaches to blue. In 
all these cases I have been satisfied by numerous trials that my brother sees 
just like myself, and therefore differently from all other persons. 

" Persuaded that cases of this kind could not fail to be of interest to inquisi- 
tive minds, I was preparing to publish a statement of the peculiarities of my 
vision, when I remembered having read in the Philosophical Transactions some 
account of a mariner of Maryport, named Harris, who, it was represented, could 
not distinguish between colors. The case of Harris seeming somewhat different 
from my own, I thought that a comparison might cast some light on the nature 
of our imperfection, and wrote to obtain exact details on the subject ; the inform- 
ation received convinced me that the defects of vision in the two cases were not 
abtfolutely parallel, and this suspicion was confirmed on my sending at least 
twenty specimens of colored riband to Maryport, with a request that they might 
be submitted to the inspection of Harris both by solar and artificial light. Sub- 
sequent observation has satisfied me that cases of this nature are by no means 
scf rare as we might suppose them to be ; in carefully studying the vision of 
persons of my acquaintance I have found more than twenty who might be 
ranged in the same category with myself; one or two differed only a little from 
the others. Among twenty-five pupils to whom I was one day endeavoring to 
explain this subject, there were found to be two affected in a similar manner ; 
and, another day, one in the same number of auditors. Among all these persons 
my brother and I alone could not distinguish blue from violet by daylight, 
while, by candle-light we both recognized a great difference between these 
colors. With regard to green, all the persons spoken of had perceptions pre- 
cisely like our own. As has been said, however, I have observed some twenty 
persons whose vision was similar to mine, but I have never heard of any woman 
who was affected with the visual imperfection of which we are speaking." 

A second account, accompanied by details, is to be found in the writings of 
Sommer, a man of eminence, who describes as follows the infirmity under which 
he labored : 

" The sub-orbital part of my eye is very prominent, and covered with 
thick blond hairs, which form an arch a little flattened. The folds of the upper 
eyelids are parallel to the border of the orbit, the lower eyelids thick, and the 



ON ACCIDENTAL OR SUBJECTIVE COLORS. 249 

lashes somewhat short. The bulb and the cornea are very little arched, and 
the iris is throughout of a greenish blue, more deeply colored towards the 
pupillary border, and sprinkled over wit^h yellowish points ; the pupil is normal 
as to size and mobility. On the whole, the eye bears all the characters of a 
sanguine temperament. My sight, excellent in youth, was much enfeebled 
through being exerted by artificial light ; still I see very well both near and 
distant (objects. Different degrees of intensity of light act upon my vision as 
upon that of other persons. 

" The muscce volitantes whicli, for some ten years, have floated before my 
view, alarmed me at first, because I took the phenomenon for a precursor of 
amaurosis, but its stationary condition soon reassured me. There is no con- 
nection, however, between this accident and the imperfection of my sight ia 
regard to the distinction of colors ; for, as that imperfection existed from birth, 
my associates remarked it as well as myself, and I still recall many a laughable 
adventure to which it gave rise in ray childhood. 

" I can always distinguish, by daylight, yellow from blue, bright blue from 
green, deep red from black ; the last I very well discriminate from bright 
colors, but I often confound it with the dark green and blue. Yellow, black, 
deep blue are for me the fundamental colors. Although I well perceive a dif- 
ference between the colors often presented to me, yet I could not undertake to 
designate them by name without risk of committing an error. If I hold beside 
one another a leaf and a stick of sealing wax, I recognize very clearly the 
difference of intensity in the two colors, but I could not affirm that one of the 
objects is green, the other red, if the object itself did not enable me to divine 
it. Blue, not deep, and red, not intense, have for me a great resemblance. 
Placed near one another, the bright brown which approaches yellow, green 
somewhat deep, and red of a decided hue, all seem to me shades of one and the 
same color. I confound blue with red, green with brown, orange with bright 
brown, and a multitude of other compound colors. Crimson, purple, lilac, 
flame color, &c., I know only by name, and it is not possible to convey to me 
the least idea of them, though of course I have often had these colors before 
my eyes. In general, I cannot retain colors, and if a series of them were 
shown me and their names indicated, I should almost certainly be mistaken in 
recounting them if their positions were altered. 

" I remember that on meeting, one day, a lady wearing a blue hat ornamented 
with roses, I could make no distinction between the hat and the roses, but thought 
both red. At another time, when walking out, a shower of rain came on, and a 
multitud^of red umbrellas (then in fashion) were raised; to me they all appeared 
of the same color with the sky. I confound constantly the colors of dress, and of 
flowers, and there is not a tint which does not recall some ludicrous mistake 
which it has occasioned me to make. The impositions to which I am thus ex- 
posed, the fear of being charged with singularity, cause me to use much reserve 
in the indication of colors, and to call to my help all the particulars which may 
enable me to determine their character. Many objects have each a specialty 
of color, which preserves mc from making as many blunders as might be sup- 
posed. Thus, usually the garb of a huntsman may safely be called green; nor 
can one be often deceived in speaking of tiles or flesh as red, or of the sky as 
blue ; but if the least change of color occurs in these objects, my judgment is 
directly and necessarily at fault. For the few colors Avhich I recognize I pos- 
sess a good memory and distinct conception. Artificial light, however, confuses 
for me all tints, and I cannot then venture to indicate colors which I recognize 
well enough by the light of the sun. The landscape which Goethe caused to 
be painted without any trace of blue, and which, he maintained, ought to appear 
entirely proper to an akyanopist, had nothing unnatural to me ; I should not 
even have remarked the complete absence of blue had I not been previously 
apprised of it The rainbow seems to me composed of blue and yellow ; I 



250 ON ACCIDENTAL OR SUBJECTIVE COLORS. 

perceive, indeed, that tliere are more than two tints, but I cannot distinguish 
them, nor even conceive the difference." 

Let us cite, as a last example, that of the Harris family, reported by M. 
Hudart in a letter to the celebrated Priestley : 

"Harris, a shoemaker, of Maryport, in Cumberland, could judge without dif- 
ficulty of the size and form of bodies, but he was without the power of distin- 
guishing their colors. He was well aware that objects offered to the sight of 
other men something which they readily recognized, though undiscernible to 
him ; that they expressed in words certain qualities of those objects which he 
could only designate at hazard and with hesitation. It was at the age of seven 
that he first became apprised of this imperfection. Having found, one day, a 
child's stocking, he entered a neighboring house to learn to whom it belonged; 
he observed that every one spoke of it as a red stocking, but as the term had 
no meaning for him, he regarded it as merely superfluous and thought it enough 
to call it a stocking. The circumstance remained, however, impressed on his 
mind, and some similar observations which he afterwards made enlightened him 
as to the state of his vision. 

" The sensation of color being the first we experience, it will appear surpris- 
ing, no doubt, that he had not sooner discovered what was wanting to his per 
ceptions. But this difficulty will be removed when it is stated that his relatives 
were Quakers, and that a grave uniformity of colors is generally as strictly ob- 
served by this class of persons in their dwellings as in theu- vesture. Harris 
discerned objects, whatever their distance, as well as others, when their form 
sufficed to convey an exact idea ; but his vision was at fault as regarded bodies 
which are only appreciable by the color. His companions could distinguish 
from afar the cherries on a tree, where to him there appeared nothing but leaves, 
and it was only by approaching near enough to judge of the relative form and 
size that he could discriminate between the foliage and fruit. He was quite 
capable of distinguishing between black and white or a bright light ; and for 
him the other colors ranged between these two extremes according to their 
brightness or obscurity. Hence he was often led to confound or comprise under 
one name very different colors, because to him they presented the same lustre. 
If a riband was striped with different colors, he did not confound it with a plain 
one, but he could only perceive in it degrees of light and shade more or less 
marked. 

"Harris was an intelligent man and fond of knowledge, especially that which 
relates to light and colors. Two of his brothers were born with the same defect 
as himself, but two other brothers and two sisters were exempt. Having met, 
in Dublin, with one of his brothers, a mariner, of Maryport, I proposed to ex- 
amine his vision, and obtained the following results : As I had no prism at com- 
mand, I asked him if he had ever seen a rainbow ; he assured me that he had 
often observed it, had counted all the colors, but could not call them by name. 
I presented a riband, in which he recognized several colors and attempted to 
name that of each of the squares of which it was composed. The white ones 
he distinguished without hesitation, but he confounded the black with the 
brown, saying that they were only shades of the same color. When pointed to 
a green square, he replied : ' To me it seems that this is the color which you 
call yellow.' A red square, with him, was hlue, and he was confident of seeing 
green when I showed him orange. I asked him, finally, whether he thought 
that what we call colors were anything else than degrees of brightness and 
shade, or whether he believed that there was still some other difference. To 
this he replied doubtingly, that he imagined he could observe something else, 
of which, however, he could give no account," 

We should exceed our limits if we attempted to present to our readers the 
observations carefully collected by the authors before cited ; a summary account 
of them will suffice and lead us naturally to a consideration of the theoretical 



ON ACCIDENTAL OR SUBJECTIVE COLORS. 251 

views, which are more pertinent to our purpose. M. Seebeck has distributed 
the daltonians into two classes : the first comprises the individuals who are 
rather mistaken in the degree of the coloring than the nature of the color. The 
tints which they more or less confound are: the bright orange and pure yellow; 
the deep orange, the clear yellowish or brownish green and the yellowish brown ; 
the pure clear green, the grayish brown and flesh-color ; the rose-colored red 
and the green rather bluish than yellowish ; crimson and deep green and chest- 
nut-brown ; bluish green and dull violet ; lilac and bluish gray ; azure and bluish 
gray and lilac. Their perception is very defective as regards the specific im- 
pression of colors in general, and especially so for red and consequently green, 
which they discriminate but little or not at all from gray. Yellow is the color 
of which their appreciation is most correct, although they often see less di£fer- 
ence between this color and the appearance of colorless bodies than is discerned 
by eyes of normal conformation. The second division comprises persons who 
confound bright orange with greenish yellow, brownish yellow and pure yellow ; 
deep orange with brown yellow and grass green ; red and deep olive green ; 
vermilion and deep brown, carmine and blackish green ; carnation, grayish 
brown, and bluish green ; dull bluish gray and brownish gray, yellowish rose- 
color and pure gray, deep rose with lilac, azure and gray passing into lilac ; 
crimson and violet, deep violet and deep blue. They have but a feeble percep- 
tion of the least refrangible rays ; it is in this that their most strikingly dis- 
tinctive characteristic consists, and on this rests chiefly the distinction between 
the two classes. It explains not only why the individuals of the second class, 
like those of the first, confound red with dark green, but will account moreover 
for all the differences which separate them, if it be remarked that the absence 
of the orange rays occasions much affinity between blue, colorless light, and 
even red. 

We know that as the obscurity becomes greater the least refrangible rays 
disappear first froln the light of the atmosphere, and that from this more prompt 
disappearance arise the changes of color observed under such circumstances. 
If, therefore, the defect of sensibility for these rays characterizes the daltonism 
of the second class, the daltonians of the first class should find themselves, 
during the approach of darkness, nearly in the same condition with those of the 
second. Towards evening, M. Seebeck presented to one of the first class of 
daltonians two series of colors, of one of which he judged very correctly, while 
he was constantly mistaken as regarded the other ; in proportion as the obscur- 
ity increased, the first series betrayed him more and more into error, while the 
second was better and better appreciated ; when the obscurity became consid- 
erable, the second series was that on which he was no longer deceived, while 
he erred completely in regard to the first. He could soon no longer distinguish, 
like the daltonians of the second class, by the light of day, the blue sky from 
the rosy red ; finally, he judged not more correctly of the colors of the second 
series: the red paper which, by day, appeared to him too dazzling, then ap- 
peared too dark. Subjected to the same tests, the eyes of the daltonians of 
the second class acted quite differently : the obscurity had at first produced on 
them no effect ; their judgments respecting the second series of colors were in- 
variable ; more and more correct, they agreed with those of the first daltonian, 
especially in the impression that, under tiie influence of the growing obscurity, 
the red paper had become darker. Obscurity then reduces to the second class 
the daltonians of the first ; reciprocally, by a bright orange green placed before 
the eye the daltonians of the second would be reduced to the first class. In 
these observations M. Seebeck has presented us with some very original views, 
and has proved himself here, as in all his labors, a profound and skilful 
physicist. 

Classification of Dr. Szokalski. — M. Szokalski comprises under the name 
cJiromatp-pseudopsy — formed from three Greek words •^pw/j.a, color; ^eudoq, 



252 ON ACCIDENTAL OR SUBJECTIVE COLORS. 

false; o-^cg, sight— =■ the phenomena which, with M. Wartmann, we have desig- 
nated by the more simple term Daltonism. He distinguishes five classes of 
daltonians : 1st. That of persons in whom the sense of color fails almost com- 
pletely, and who see in place of the principal colors, yellow, red, and blue, only 
different degrees of white and black. The existence of this class is doubtful, for 
all eyes have at least the sensation of yellow. 2d, That of persons who distin- 
guish the yellow. To these external objects appear colored with the tints pro- 
duced by different combinations of yellow, blue, and black. 3d. That of per- 
sons who not only see yellow, but are moreover cajjable of a peculiar and uni- 
form perception of blue and red ; these are the akyanopists of Goethe. 4th. 
That of persons only destitute of the perception of red, which appears to them 
ashy-gray. 5th. That of individuals who distinguish all the colors, but not in 
a distinct manner : instead of being able to discriminate the mixture of two 
colors, they see but one of them. These divisions are rather arbitrary than 
real ; they seem to us suggested by an incomplete and hypothetical study of 
the facts. We should have much confidence in M. Szokalski as a practical 
oculist, but his pamphlet proves that he is not a competent physicist ; it might 
be said, indeed, that he has undertaken to wrest daltonism completely from the 
domain of physics. "The immediate cause," he says, "of chromato-pseudopsy 
consists in the confusion of the determinative functions of the brain which fur- 
nish us with the perception of colors." This is evidently an error ; before the 
confusion of the functions of the brain — an imaginary confusion probably — there 
is certainly a physical cause, the insensibility of the retina. M. Szokalski is 
convinced that the physicists have but false ideas of colors : while they are en- 
tirely and essentially subjective, the physicists have made them objective by 
forgetting the important part which our eye plays in their production. We 
shall not stop to repel a reproach which has no foundation ; there is no physi- 
cist who does not admit that colors are produced in our eyes; that the sensation 
of color depends on a certain change in the eye, a change which is caused by 
the operation of some stimulus. Yet more than this : the different sensations of 
red, orange, &c., arise necessarily from different stimulants ; in each luminous 
ray, therefore, there is evidently a distinctive character which fits it for deter- 
mining such or such a sensation, and it would seem then quite natural to at- 
tribute to it the color. But we leave these useless discussions and proceed to 
analyze the much more methodical memoir of M. Elie Wartmann. 

Numher of Daltonians. — The number is much more considerable than is 
commonly supposed. M. Seebeck detected five daltonians in rather more than 
forty youths who composed the two higher classes of a gymnasium in Berlin, 
and Professor Pierre Prevost has asserted that among twenty individuals there 
is at least one who is a daltonian. 

Characteristic signs. — Are there any means of deciding, from simple inspec- 
tion of the eye, whether daltonism exists? M. Wartmann hesitates to affirm 
that in all cases the reply should be negative. It would seem that the daltonians 
whose eyes are of a hazel brown sometimes offer, under an incidence more or 
less oblique, a yellow reflection of a peculiar tint, the presence of which may 
lead us to suspect daltonism. It has been erroneously assumed that there were 
more daltonians with blue than with black eyes. 

Apportionment as to sex. — It can scarcely be doubted that daltonism is much 
more common in men than women. M. Szokalski having assembled a number 
of women and showed them separately specimens of variously colored riband, 
requested each of them to indicate the name and nature of the colors. He was 
struck with the perfect accord which existed among all their answers. The 
same trial, made with a certain number of men, was far from yielding the same 
result. Scarcely were the same specimens shown to them, when a lively dis- 
cussion arose among them on the names of the colors. The faculty of discern- 



ON ACCIDENTAL OR SUBJECTIVE COLORS. 253 

ing colors wouM seem, therefore, to predominate in women. Gall asserts that 
the organ of color is more developed in woman than in man. 

Influence of age and parentage. — Daltonism dates ordinarily from birth. It 
is often hereditary. It sometimes affects one, two, or more members of a family, 
while the others remain exempt. It is remarkable that the transmission of 
daltonism takes place rather throngh females than males, although females, as 
we have seen, are themselves very rarely subject to the infirmity. M. Cunier, 
however, has recently ascertained a case of hereditary daltonism in five con- 
secutive generations, and always in females, who were alone affected. 

Explanation of Daltonism. — Some persons will see nothing in this affection 
but a defect of intelligence or perturbation of the functions of the brain ; others 
assume an abnormal coloration of certain parts of the eye which modifies the 
true colors; others, again, think that the cause should be sought in the sensibility, 
more or less great, not only of tlie retina in general, but specially of the different 
nervous fibres which vibrate in unison with such or such a color, or which are 
impressible by such or such a tint. The first opinion we shall not stop to 
refute. The second was held by Dalton, who concluded from his personal ob- 
servation that the humors of his own eyes and of those of his students were 
tinged with blue. He ascribed this peculiar coloring to the vitreous humor; but 
the researches of anatomists have never brought such coloration to light. More- 
over there are observed facts which would be very imperfectly explained on this 
hypothesis. Persons who habitually use blue glasses are not thereby exposed 
to a confusion of colors. Goeihe, on the other hand, conceived that daltoniaus 
were insensible to blue, but saw in its place a pale purple or rose color. This 
view, liowever, is evidently inconsistent with facts. 

From the sum of the observations heretofore made, two conclusions, we think, 
may be drawn : 1st, that daltonism never extends to yellow, a color which all 
eyes are capable of seeing ; 2d, that the sensations of two complementary colors 
are inseparable, in the meaning that the eye is either sensible or insensible to 
both at the same time. The eye which perceives blue perceives also an orange 
color. The eye which does not discern red is incapable also of distinguishing 
green; these two colors it confounds. The above conclusions comprise in them- 
selves all the phenomena of daltonism. They are, moreover, a necessary con- 
sequence of the theories of MM. Melloni and Plateau, and might be enunciated 
a priori, even previous to their verification as a consequence of fxcts. But 
these conclusions being once admitted, it becomes evident that the cause and 
explanation of daltonism is to be sought in an anomalous insensibility of the 
eye, which deprives it of the faculty of vibrating in unison with such or such a 
luminous ray. 

We shall not insist further on this point. Let us conclude by indicating the 
very simple means by which the elder Seebeck succeeded in rectifying to a 
certain extent the error committed by daltoniaus in the appreciation of colors. 
This means consists in the use of glasses, or more generally of colored mediums. 
Suppose, for example, that an eye confounds green with red. It will evidently 
suffice to furnish this eye with a red glass in order that the difference between 
the two colors shall be distinctly perceived. The surprise of a daltonian is 
inexpressible when thus enabled to discover the errors which he is constantly 
making. By this means, however, only mistakes relative to the nature of colors 
are remedied. Tne inability to distinguish between shades of the same tint will, 
in general, still subsist. 



THE FIGURES OF EQUILIBRIUM OF A LIQUID MASS 
WITHDRAWN FROM THE ACTION OF GRAVITY. 



BY J. PLATEAU. 




[Continued from page 435, Report for 1865.] 
SIXTH SERIES. 

Theory of liquid jilms. Laics of films. Constitution of froth. Generation of 
films. Production of films hy frame-work. 

§ 1. Let us prosecute the study of liquid films commenced in the second and 
continued in the fifth series. In § 2S of the second series I regarded the gene- 
ration of films as being due to a tendency towards a new figure of equilibrium. 
I now abandon that opinion, at least in part ; though still believing that in the case 
where gravity does not intervene, the system, when the films are once produced, 
tends towards the new state of equilibrium which I have indicated. I consider 
the formation of the films itself as a result of the cohesion and viscosity of the liquid. 
Let us examine the matter somewhat more closely. We first take a very simple 
example, that of the film in shape of a spherical cap developed on the surface of 
a liquid by a bubble of air which has ascended from the interior of the liquid. 
Let U3 consider this bubble at the moment when it is within only a few milli- 
metres of the surface, (Fig. 10. *) In order that its summit 
shall traverse the distance m n which intervenes, the liquid 
molecules situated around this little right line must neces- 
sarily be driven toward every azimuth at once, in such man- 
ner that these molecules shall undergo relative displace- 
ments. Let us suppose, for simplification, that the ascen- 
sional movement of the bubble of air is uniform, so that, in equal intervals of time, 
the bubble shall propel, between itself and the upper surface of the liquid, equal 
quantities of this liquid. Let us further suppose that the liquid has no viscosity. 
Then, in proportion as the distance m n diminishes, the portions of liquid pro- 
pelled during the above intervals of time will respectively acquire velocities con- 
stantly increasing, since they must accomplish their movements in spaces more 
and more straitened ; thus tlie relative displacements of the liquid molecules are 
so much the more rapid as the summit of the bubble is nearer attaining the sur- 
face. I have supposed the ascensional movement of this bubble to be uniform ; 
but as it is in reality accelerated, its acceleration will contribute to increase the 
rapidity of the relative displacements in question. 

Now, we know that viscosity opposes to the relative displacements of the 
molecules of liquids a resistance which increases considerably with the velocity 
of those displacements. If, then, in order to pass to the actual case, we restore 
to our liquid its viscosity, the resistance to the lateral translation of the liquid 
molecules around m n Avill continue to augment in proportion as that right line 
diminishes in length, and will become very great when this line shall have be- 
come very short. Hence it necessarily results that when the summit of the 
bubble has arrived near the surface, the portion of liquid which still separates it 
therefrom cannot disperse itself with a rapidity equal to that of the ascensional 
movement of this summit ; and, in order that the air which constitutes the bubble 
shall continue to ascend and pass beyond the level of the liquid, it is evidently- 
necessary either that the liquid shall be rent asunder, or be lifted up. But it 
can be no longer doubted, after the iugenious researches of MM. Donnyt and 

* lu this figure the bubble is repveseuted a little flattened vertically, which does in fact 
occur by reason of the resistance of the liquid. 

+ Mcinoircs de I' Academic, tome XVII des Mtmoircs des Savants £trangers. The memoir 
of M. Donny was presented to the Academy in December, 1843. 



256 WITHDRAWN FROM THE ACTION OF GRAVITY. 

Henry,* that the cohesion of liquids is not of the same order with that of solids ; 
it will be understood, therefore, that when the distance m n is so far reduced that 
its further diminution cannot be effected with a rapidity nearly equal to that of 
the ascension of the summit of the bubble, the liquid will still present m m n 
much too great a resistance to the disunion of its molecules to be forced asunder, 
and that hence it will be lifted up by the bubble under the shape of a film ; and 
as this film, during its generation, is pressed from below upwards by the bubble 
of air, and adheres by its circumference to the liquid of the vessel, it must be 
convex towards the exterior. After the film has commenced forming, it must 
become still more developed : for, incessantly pressed by the bubble of air, it 
must continue to rise, while the liquid to which its circumference adheres cannot 
follow it in mass on account of its weight ; this liquid must, therefore, remain 
behind ; but, by virtue of the cohesion and viscosity, there can be no rupture 
between the incipient film and the environing liquid, and the film will simply 
increase until the action from below upAvard exerted on the lower part of the 
bubble of air shall have had its whole effect. Mr. Hagen,t who has sought to 
prove, contrary to the principle established by Poisson in his new theory oj 
capillary action, that the density of the superficial stratum of liquids is greater 
than that of their interior, cites, in support of his opinion, the fact of the forma- 
tion of the films in question; but we see that is not at all necessary to resort to 
such an hypothesis in order to account for this formation. 

In § 25 of the first series it was said that when a mass of oil a little less dense 
than the alcoholic liquid in which it is immersed rises to the surface of the latter, 
it is at first more or less flattened against that surface, as if encountering resist- 
ance in traversing it; that after some time it makes its way through, and then 
presents a portion of plane surface more or less extended on a level with that of 
the alcoholic liquid. This phenomenon is now explicable in a natural manner 
from the considerations which precede : it fares with the sphere of oil as with 
the bubble of air ; it can only make its way to the exterior by disuniting the 
molecules of the upper stratum of the ambient liquid, but this not growing thin 
with sufficient rapidity on account of its viscosity, resists a rupture by virtue of 
its cohesion; Only it is plain that, in this case, the pellicle cannot be elevated 
above the level. 

§ 2. Let us recur to our convex film developed by the ascension of a bubble 
of air. When it has attained its full development, and hence remains stationary, 
it should assume (5 series, § 12) one of the figures of equilibrium which would 
correspond to the surface of a liquid mass without gravity ; now this figure, 
which is formed by an equal action in all azimuths around the vertical axis of 
the air bubble, must evidently be one of revolution, and, as it is closed on the 
axis, it can only constitute (IV, § 2) a portion of a sphere. What, now, does 
theory teach tis on the extent of this portion relatively to the complete sphere ? 
As regards molecular action, the superficial stratum of a full liquid mass may, ■ 
as we know, be assimilated to a stretched membrane ; our liquid film, which is 
obviously reduced to the superficial strata of its two faces, may therefore be 
likened to a stretched membrane, and consequently has a tendency to occupy 
the least possible extent. The question, then, if we neglect certain particulars 
of which I shall presently speak, and which have no sensible influence when the 
volume of air is somewhat large, is reduced to this : what, for a given volume, 
is the segment of a sphere whose surface is smallest ? This problem is readily 
solved by calculation, and we thus find that the segment in question is a hemis- 
phere; but we reach the same result still more simply by the following reason- 
ing, for the idea of which I am indebted to M. Lamar le. 

Let us conceive any two spherical segments, equal as regards one another, and 

* Philosophical Magazine, ]845, vol. xx, p. 541. 

t Vthcr die, Ob'-rfidchcn der FlussigkeAten (Ann. de M. Poggendorf, 1846, vol. LXVII, p. 1 .) 



THE FIGURES OF EQUILIBRIUM OF A LIQUID MASS 257 

apiilic'cl one against the other bj their bases. In order that the convex surfoce 
of eacli of them should be the smallest possible with reference to the volume en- 
closed between itself and the common base, it suffices evidently that the whole 
convex surface of both segments together should be the smallest possible in re- 
lation to the total volume; now, according to a known principle, this last con- 
dition will be fulfilled if the two segments constitute together a single sphere, in 
which case each of the two segments will be a hemisphere. Our liquid film, if 
it contains a sufficient body of air, ought, therefore, to take the hemispherical 
form, and this is what common observation verifies. 

§ 3. We will advert now to the particulars to which allusion was made a little 
while ago. In tlic first place, the liquid of the vessel must be slightly raised 
by the capillary action on both the exterior aad interior face of the laminar 
figure, as it would be on the two faces of a solid lamina previously moistened 
with the same liquid and partially immersed ; it must, therefore, form a small 
annular mass with concave meridian surfaces, and this also is confirmed by ob- 
servation. Hence the border of the liquid film does not rest immediately on the 
plane surface of the liquid of the vessel, but on the crest of the small annular 
mass in question. In the second place, it will be perceived from this, that if the 
enclo.«ed volume of air is so small that the space circumscribed by the border of 
the film shall have little diameter, the surfoce of the liquid in this space will be 
in no part plane, but will present, even in the middle, a concave curvature more 
or less decided, as in the interior of a tube of small extent. This result is also 
in accordance with experience, and I have ascertained, by means presently to be 
iiulicated, that the central portion of the surface in question ceases to appear 
l^lane when the diameter of the film, at the crest of the little annular mass, is 
less than about two centimetres. In the third place, even with a volume of air 
great enough for the surfixce of the liquid, in the space circumscribed by the 
film, to shoAv itself absolutely plane through nearly its whole extent, this surface 
must be sunk below the exterior level by the pressure which the film, by reason 
of its curvature, exerts on the enclosed air, (V, § 21,) and that this is the case 
may be evinced by the following process : 

In a large porcelain dish placed on a table in front of a window pour a stratum 
of glyceric liquid (V, § 13) about 2 centimetres in depth, and, after having in- 
flated, by means of an earthen pipe, a bubble of the same liquid, deposit it iu 
the middle of the surface of the stratum, when it Avill at once form a spherical 
segment. We now place ourselves in such a position as to see the sky by re- 
flection on the surface in question, holding, at the same time, a black thread 
stretched horizontally at a small distance from the film in such manner that a 
portion of its reflected image shall be perceived in the space circumscribed by 
the film. The complete image of the thread now appears to be formed of three 
parts — two without and one within the laminar figure; the former arc both in- 
curvated near the film, in consequence of the capillary elevation before spoken 
of; as regards the third, if the circumscribed surface has, in its middle, a plane 
portion, we shall find, by suitably adjusting the thread, a position of the latter 
for which the middle of the image will be rectilinear. This will be the case 
with films whose diameter exceeds two centimetres, but within that limit the 
entire part of the image in the interior of the film will appear curved. 

When the film has a large diameter, that part of the image of the thread is 
rectilinear for nearly its whole length; it curves only toward its extremities, 
by virtue of the capillary attraction ; but its straight portion is not in the pro- 
longation of the straight portions exterior to the film; it Avill be seen a little 
lower. This depression, which shows that the circumscribed plane surface is, 
as has been said, below the exterior level, becomes less decided in proportion as 
the diameter of the film is more considerable — a circumstance referable to the 
diminution of the curvature, and consequently of the pressure of the film, but 
which is still very perceptible for a film of a decimetre in diameter. 
17 s 66 



258 WITHDEAWN" FROM THE ACTION OF GRAVITY. 

§ 4. Tlie reasoning of § 2 necessarily supposes that the film rests by its actual 
border upon the plane surface of the liquid in the vessel, and that the portion of 
that surface circumscribed by the film preserves its plane shape and its level ; 
now, these conditions, being, as has been just seen, never all entirely fulfilled, 
it fellows that the reasoning in question can only be considered sufficiently rig- 
orous when the variance from the imaginary conditions on which it rests is but 
inconsiderable. To be more precise : If we fill with glyceric liquid, and some- 
what above the edge, a large porcelain salver, previously levelled and placed on 
a table opposite a window, and, after having deposited thereon a bubble, station 
ourselves so as to see the film projected on a dark ground, and, closing one eye, 
keep the other at the level of the little annular mass, we shall distinguish per- 
fectly well the two meridian lines of this little mass, as well that which looks 
towards the exterior of the figure, as the commencement, proceeding from the 
summit of the crest, of that which fronts the interior. We therefore clearly 
perceive this summit, and can estimate, approximately, its vertical height above 
the exterior plane surface. We shall thus recognize that, for large bubbles, this 
height scarcely exceeds 2™™, and is less still for small ones. Oh the other hand, 
when the film has large dimensions, when, for example, its diarheter is a deci- 
metre, the portion of the surface of the liquid circumscribed within its interior 
may be regarded as exactly plane through almost its whole extent. It results, 
in fine, from the experiments of the preceding paragraph, that with such a film, 
the depression of this surface, though still quite sensible, is yet very minute. 
From the results of § 28 of the 5th series, it follows that if the film, assumed to 
be hemispherical and of the diameter of a decimetre, were, although formed of 
glyceric liquid, deposited on pure water, the depression in question would be 

22.6 
but rwrr= 0™™,226 ; and consequently in order to obtain the value of the de- 
pression in the present case, that is, when the film is deposited on the glyceric 
liquid, it suffices to divide the preceding quantity by the density 1.1065 of that 
liquid, which reduces the depression definitively to 0™™.204. With such a vol- 
ume of air and a hemispherical film, a state of things would exist therefore in 
close conformity with the conditions of the reasoning in question, and we may 
conclude that the film would, in effect, take that form, or that, at least, the de- 
viation would be inappreciable. 

But it is easy to show that, with a volume of air sufficiently small, the film 
will be far from constituting a hemisphere. Let us imagine, for instance, that 
the bubble of air is but one millimetre in diameter, and suppose, for an instant, 
that the film is hemispherical. Upon this hypothesis, the portion of the surface 
of the liquid circumscribed by the film and reckoned from the border of the 
latter, or, if you will, from the crest of the small annular mass, would neces- 
sarily constitute, by reason of its minute dimensions, a concave hemisphere, so 
that the bubble of air would continue to form an entire sphere of one millimetre 
in diameter. That being the case, let us remember that the pressure exerted by 
a spherical film in virtue of its curvature is (5th series, § 23) the sum of the 
actions separately due to the curvatures of each of its two faces; or, since these 
two actions are equal, the double of one of them. Now, the action of the interior 
face of our little hemispherical film would, as regards its effort to cause the 
bubble of air to descend, be counterbalanced by the opposite action of the con- 
cave hemisphere, which would, as I have said, limit the bubble beneath, and 
there would remain, on the one hand, the action due to the exterior face of the 
film, an action which would impel the bubble from above downward, and, on the 
other hand, a slight hydrostatic pressure which would impel this bubble from 
below upward if the lower point of it were below the level of the liquid. But, 
in the case of the glyceric liquid, it further follows, from the results of § 28 of 
the 5th series, by taking, agreeably to the remark above made, half the value 



THE FIGURES OF EQUILIBRIUM OF A LIQUID MASS 259 

which they yield, and dividing by the density of the liquid, that the first of the 
above two actions would be equivalent to a difference of level of 10""". 21 ; while, 
even supposing the absence of the little annular mass, the second would evi- 
dently proceed only from a difference of level equal to the radius of the air 
bubble — that is, to 0'"™.5. With our small volume of air and a hemispherical 
film, equilibrium, then, is impossible; that it should exist, it would be necessary 
that the bubble of air should remain almost entirely beneath the level of the 
liqirid, and hence should give rise to a film scarcely at all elevated and of very 
feeble curvatin-e; then, in effect, the slight hydrostatic pressure which tends to 
cause the bubble of air to rise will be equivalent to the minute weight of a vol- 
ume of liquid a little less than that of this bubble, and the light pressure (>x- 
erted by the exterior face of the film, in virtue of its feeble curvature, will suffice 
to counterbalance it. 

Experiment again fully verifies this deduction of theory. Having poured, to 
a certain height, glyceric liquid into the vessel with plane glass walls which 
served for experiments on the masses of oil, and slightly agitated the liquid in 
order to prodiice small bubbles of air, I chose one of these about 1"^"* in diam- 
eter, and sufficiently near to one of the walls, and observed it by successively 
placing the eye a little below and then above the level of the liquid. In this 
way I perceived that the little bubble appeared spherical, and was so fiir im- 
mersed that its projection above the level was very inconsiderable. 

§ 5. From this it is clear that if we form successive films on the surface of 
soap-water or glyceric liquid, beginning with a diameter of one decimetre, fol- 
lowed by others progressively smaller, a limit will be reached below which the 
films Avill exhibit a sensible depression, or appear, in other words, to constitute 
less than a hemisphere. In order to determine this limit approximately in regard, 
to the glyceric liquid, I deposited the bubbles, as was indicated in the preceding 
paragraph, on the surface of the liquid contained in a salver a little more than 
full, and ascertained that they appear hemispherical only for diameters greater 
than about 3 centimetres; below that value the bubbles form segments sensibly 
less relatively to the entire sphere, and this diminution is the more decided as 
the diameter of their base is smaller. 

§ 6. Although a film of spherical curvature thus formed at the surface of a 
liquid be in equilibrium of figure, still absolute repose does not exist : it slowly 
becomes thinner until it bursts. The principal causes of this have been long 
since indicated: they are, firstly, evaporation, in the case of liquids which are 
susceptible of it; and secondly, the action of gravity which causes the liquid 
constantly to descend from the summit of the film towards its base. And here 
again viscosity has a great influence : if this be very weak, it is plain that the 
gliding of the molecules towards the base of the film will be effected with great 
rapidity, and consequently the film will have scarcely any persistence; hence, 
when we succeed in forming films with pure water, they scarcely subsist at all. 
This remark concerning the agency of viscosity in the duration of films had 
already been presented, though in a somewhat different manner, by Professor 
Henry,* in regard to bubbles of soap compared with those of pure water. 

§ 7. Let us suppose now that a second bubble of air rises from the bottom of 
the vessel, and that at the moment when it has nearly reached the surface, it 
happens to be partly under the first film; it will thus occasion the formation of 
a film which will necessarily lift up the former on one side, so that the two 
quantities of air respectively imprisoned by these two films will be separated by 
a portion of the second, as by a liquid partition. But this partition will not 
observe the curvature of the rest of the second film, as I shall proceed to show. 

In virtue of their liquid nature, films can evidently not meet under angles with 
linear edges: for continuity it is necessary that, along the whole line of junc- 

*See the article cited in 3d note of section 1. 



260 WITHDRAWN FROM THE ACTION OF GRAVITY. 

tioD, a small mass witli surfaces strongly concave in a perpendicular direction to 
this line should take form; it is what is realized, as has been seen (2d series, 
§§31 and 32) when, in the interior of the alcoholic liquid, a laminar figure of 
oil is produced by the gradual exhaustion of a polyhedron. Let us recall, in 
this respect, the experiment of § 2 of the 5 oh series — an experiment in which 
a similar mass, though a thick one, establishes the transition between a plane 
film and two curved films, as is seen in meridian section in Fig. 1 of this 5th 
series. It will be understood, therefore, that in the case of our films of soap- 
water or of glyceric liquid, a mass of this kind exists, though too minute to be 
distinguished, along the whole length of the arc of junction of the partition and 
the two other films ; now, the surfaces of the latter and that of the partition 
being thus united by small surfaces having their own curvatures, it is plain that 
these small surfaces establish an entire independence between the respective 
curvatures of the other surfaces. It is thus, for example, that in the experiment 
above recalled, a plane film is connected with two films which are portions of 
catenoids. In this experiment, it is true, the junction takes place by a thick 
mass ; but the result must evidently be the same as regards the independence 
of the curvatures, however minute be the transverse dimensions of the mass 
serving as an intermedium. 

This being the case, let us remark that the partition must also constitute a 
portion of a sphere, for it falls within the same conditions as the two other films ; 
that is to say, it has, like the latter, for limits the small mass of junction and 
the water of the vessel. As regards its curvature, this evidently depends on 
the difference of the action exerted on its two faces by the two portions of im- 
prisoned air. If these two portions of air are equal, the two films will pertain 
to equal spheres, which will press the two volumes of air with the same inten- 
sity, and consequently the partition, exposed on its two faces to equal actions, 
will have no curvature, or, in other words, will be plane; bat if the two quan- 
tities of air are unequal, in which case the two films will pertain to spheres of 
different diameters, and will therefore press these two quantities of air unequally, 
the partition subjected on its two faces to unequal actions will acquire convex- 
ity on the side where the elasticity of the air is least, until the effort Avhich it 
exerts, in virtue of its curvature, on the side of its concave face, counterbalances 
the excess of elasticity of the air which is in contact with that face. 

Let p, p', and r be the radii of the spheres to which respectively appertain 
the larger film, the smaller and the partition, and let ^j>, p', and q be the respect- 
ive pressures which they exert, in virtue of their curvatures, on the air which 
bathes their concave faces. These pressures being (5 th series, §§ 22 and 28) 
in the inverse ratio of the diameters, and consequently of the radii, we shall 

have — =1 — , and — =: — ; but, according to what has been seen above, it is 
IP <1 P 

v' v 

necessary^ for equilibrium, that we should haveg'izzp' — f, whence, 1:^ . 

rp' J) 

Transferring to this last equation the above values of — and of — , and re- 

q q 

pp 

solving by reference to r, there results r sz: •, a formula which gives the 

P — P 
radius of the partition when we know those of the two films. If, for example, 
these two films pertain to equal spheres, we have pz^p', and the formula gives 
r = infinity ; that is to say, the partition is then plane, as we have already found 
it to be. If the radius of the smaller of the two films is half that of the larger, 
in other terms, if we have p' :^^jO, the formula gives r^=p ; in this case, conse- 
quently, the curvature of the partition will be equal to that of the larger film. 

§ 8. In order to complete the study of our laminar system it remains only to 
inquire under what angles the two films and the partition intersect one another. 



THE FIGURES OF EQUILIBRIUM OF A LIQUID MASS 2G1 

With this view, let us remark that the small mass of the junction which pre- 
vails along the entire common edge of these angles, and which was spoken of 
in the preceding paragraph, must of itself have its equilibrium of figure. Now, 
as it has three surfaces it is necessary that the curvatures of these should have 
to one another a ratio which permits this equilibrium. The small mass has, 
longitudinally, curvatures which are not of the same direction for its three sur- 
faces, biit in consequence of its extreme tenuity in thickness, its transverse cur- 
vatures are enormous, relatively to the longitudinal curvatures in question, so 
that the influence of the latter may be overlooked in view of that of the former. 
On the other hand, the two small surfaces which face the interior of the sys- 
tem are pressed upon by the respective elasticities of the two portions of im- 
prisoned air, elasticities which are generally unequal, and which exceed the 
atmospheric pressure, while the small surface which faces the exterior is only 
subjected to this latter pressure ; but as the differences between these three actions 
of the air result from the curvatures of the two films, curvatures which are ex- 
tremely feeble compared with the transverse curvatures of the small mass, the 
influence of these differences may also be overlooked by the side of that of the 
transverse curvatures in question. Hence it is evidently requisite, for the equi- 
librium of the small mass, and consequently for that of the whole system, that 
if we conceive this small mass cut by a plane perpendicular to its axis, the 
three concave arcs which will limit the section shall be closely identical. Now, 
from this near identity it necessarily results that the two films and the partition 
terminate at the small mass under angles either strictly equal, or very nearly 
so — angles, consequently, each of 120°, or which will diff'er from this value by 
an unappreciable quantity.* We shall presently see this result and those of 
the preceding paragraph verified by experiment. 

§ 9. If the bubble of air which gives rise to the second film (§ 7) arrives at 
the surface of the liquid sufficiently far from the first film for the spherical caps 
to be complete and isolated, or, what amounts to the same thing, if we deposit 
on the liquid two bubbles at a suitable distance from each other, the two liquid 
caps, drawn by capillary action in the same way with light floating bodies, will 
by degrees approach ixntil they touch one another. To understand what would 
then happen, let us recall a fact manifested by full spheres of oil in the interior 
of my alcoholic mixture. When two such spheres have come in contact, the 
system which they form is not in a state of equilibrium ; the two spheres unite 
to form but a single one, and the reason of this is easily apprehended. This 
contact cannot take place at one sole point ; it must necessarily' occur through- 
out a small surface, so that the two masses constitute in reality only one ; but 
since this is finite and entirely free, and is a system of revolution, the sole figure 
of equilibrium that it can assume (4th series, §§ 2 and 38) is that of a single 
sphere. Now, it is visible that the same thing must have a tendency to occur 
in regard to our two spherical laminar caps when the two small annular masses 
which exist along their bases (§ 3) have united at the place of their contact ; 
that is to say, the two caps will tend to form but a single one ; but in order that 
this tendency may have its full efiect, it would be necessary that the two liquid 
films should open at the place of contact ; and as cohesion resists this, we per- 
ceive that the opening will be replaced by a partition, and that the same co- 
ordination will obtain here as in the system of the two preceding paragraphs. 
These results, also, will be verified by experiment. 

§ 10. We have seen (§ 7) that the radius r of the partition is determined, 
when we know the radii p and (>' of the two films, by considering the relative 
value of the pressures respectively exerted by these three portions of spherical 
caps on the two quantities of included air. On the other hand, the considera- 

* By considering liquid films as stretched membranes, {^ 2) we should equally arrive at 
the equality of the angles between three films which join one another by. the same liquid 
edge. 



262 WITHDEAWN FEOM THE ACTION OF GEAVITY. 

tion of the conditions of equilibrium of the small mass of junction has led to 
this consequence, that the two films and the partition must intersect one an- 
other under angles of exactly or very near 120° ; and it is evident that this ne- 
cessity of intersecting each other under angles of 120° may equally serve to 
determine the radius of the partition. Now, no relation between the two prin- 
ciples which serve as the bases of these two determinations is to be seen a priori, 
and it may be asked whether the two results coincide ; this I propose to examine. 

In order to avoid the complications which would arise from the small irregu- 
larities mentioned in § 3, I will suppose two films forming originally two com- 
plete spheres, spheres which have afterwards partially penetrated each other so 
as to give rise to a partition, and shall imagine this whole system intersected 
by a plane passing by the centre of the two films : it is clear that the centre of 
the sphere to which the partition pertains will be found on the right line which 
contains the two above centres. 

This being premised, it is plain that if the angles under which the two films 
and the partition meet are of 120°, the radii of the two films brought to a point 
of the line of intersection of the latter will form between them an angle of 60°, 
and it will.be readily seen that the radius of the partition brought to the same 
point will also form an angle of 60° with that one of the two others to which 
it is nearest. Let^ i^^^- H) be one of 
the two points at v/hich terminate the 
three arcs, along which the two films and 
the partition are cut by the plane in ques- 
tion, a plane which Ave shall take for that 
of the figure, and let pc=i phe the radius 
of the larger film. Draw the indefinite 
lines 2-'^ ^^^ P^ i'^ such manner that 
the angles cjim and ?npn shall be each of 
60°. On pm let us take pc' equal to p' — that is to say, to the radius of 
the smallest film; let us join cc' and prolong the right line till it meets, at 
d, with pn. The three points, c, c', and d, will evidently be the three centres, 
and-pd will be the radius r of the partition, so that if from these three centres 
and with these radii we trace three portions of circumferences, terminating 
on the one hand at the point p, and on the other at its symmetrical q, we 
shall have, as the figure shows, and still on the hypothesis of angles of 
120°, the section of the system of the two films and of the partition. Let 
u§ seek now to determine the radius of this partition in a function of the 
two others. For this, take pf z=: pc' and join c'J", the angle cpc' being 
60°, the triangle Jpc' will be equilateral, and we shall consequently have 
/6-' =:pc' --=: p' ; for the same reason, the emglefc^p will be 60°, like the angle c'pd, 
whence it follows that the right linesyb' and pd will be parallel ; we may 

therefore assume -— = — r ; by then substituting, in this formula, ioxpd,fd, and 

pc their respective values r, p' and jo, and observing that^c is equal to p — p', 

pp^ 

we shall deduce r = ; being identically the value given by the first 

P — P 
method, (§ 7;) thus two laws, apparently independent, conduct to the same 
result. 

It does not follow, however, that the three angles are strictly equal, for what 
we have just demonstrated has no necessary converse ; in other words, the 
radius of the partition may have the above value in the case of angles differing 
from one another ; but since these angles, if not identical, must approach ex- 
ceedingly near to identity, as I have shown, and since, on the other hand, their 
rigorous equality implies the theoretic value of the radius of the partition, it 
must be regarded as highly probable that this perfect equality exists. 




THE FIGURES OF EQUILIBRIUM OF A LIQUID MASS 263 

§ 11. The existence of partitions is a fact well known to all who have 
amnsed themselves with making soap bubbles ; but it was necessary to submit 
to the control of experiment the results established in what precedes, from § 7 
onward, and first those which relate to the curvature of the partition and the 
angles under which that partition and the two films intersect each other. 

With that view I traced on three sheets of paper three figures, representing 
the bases of three systems, each formed of two portions of laminar spheres and 
of a partition. I understand by the base of such a system the assemblage of 
arcs of a circle by which it rests on the surface of the liquid, abstraction being 
made of the small annular masses. The three outlines are reproduced, at a 
third of their size, by figures 12, 13, and 14 ; they were constructed upon the same 



Fiff. 12 Fi- 13 



Fi- U 






method with figure 11, the arcs being marked in lines about a niillirnetre in 
breadth, for what reason will presently be seen. In the first drawing the 
diameters of the two films were equal, in the second they were as 2 to 1, and 
in the third as 3 to 1. To make use of one of these outlines, it was placed on 
a table, and above it was laid a plate of thin glass, the upper iace of which was^ 
then moistened with glyceric liquid. This being done, a bubble of the same" 
liquid was inflated and was deposited on the glass plate above the porti-.m of 
circumference which represented the base of the smallest film; this bubble im- 
mediately spread so as to form a hemisphere, the base of which had, design- 
edly, a diameter a little less than the portion of circumference in question. A 
second bubble was then inflated, and in like manner deposited above the portion 
of circumference representing the base of the other film, the precaution being 
again taken that after its development on the glass it should have a diameter 
somewhat smaller than that circumference. As, in depositing this second film, 
it was placed in contact with the first, the two hemispheres penetrated one 
another partially, and remained united with a partition. Matters being thus 
prepared, the orifice of the pipe was dipped in glyceric liquid, as if to form a 
bubble, and this orifice beiug then applied toward the inferior part of the 
sulaller film, a little blowing was practiced ; the same operation was next per- 
formed for the other film, then again for the first, then for the second, and so on, 
the glass plate being at the same time made to slide, by small quantities, on the 
drawing, and, with suitable care, it was contrived to give to the two films the 
diameters of the portions of circumference as traced, and now the base of the 
laminar system obtained, a base formed of those of the two films and that of 
the partition, exactly covered the drawing. It has been said that the drawings 
were in broad lines, and this was done because these lines were to be observed 
through the small annular masses ; had the lines been fine, the refractions pro- 
duced by these masses would have prevented them from being distinguished. 

§ 12. In order to verify also the results of § 9, I deposited successively on 
the surface of the glyceric liquid, contained in the large porcL'laiu plate, (§ 3,) 
two bubbles of this same liquid, in such manner that the two spherical caps 
which they formed might be separated by a certain interval. When this was 
about a centimetre, the films moved indeed toward one another, and united 
with a partition; but if the two films had large diameters, (10 centimetres or 
more,) the partition was not in general produced unless the union took place 



264 WITHDKAWN FEOM THE ACTION OF GRAVITY. 

but a few moments after the formation of the films ; when these were at first 
somewhat too distant from each other, so that the time required for their spon- 
taneous congress was rather long, they vmited without a partition, becoming 
transformed into one large hemisphere, because doubtless they had grown too 
thin, and the incipient partition had broken before its existence could be veri- 
fied. 

§ 13, If a third spherical laminar cap joins itself to two others already united, 
the system will evidently have three partitions, namely, one proceeding from the 
union of the first two films, and two from the union of each of these films with 
the third. These three partitions will necessarily terminate at the same arc of 
junction, and, supposing that they still have spherical curvatures, it will result 
that at three lines of junction of each of them with two of the films the angles 
will still be of 120°; it will result, moreover, for reasons already given, (§ S,) 
that at the arc of junction of the three partitions with each other the angles will 
be also of 120°. 

This being premised, let us see by what means we can trace the base of a 
system of this kind, as we have traced (Fig. 11) that of a system of two films. 
After having described (Fig. 15) the bases of the first 

two films, bases having for centres c and c', and for radii ^°' , u/^ ^\ 

the lengths given which we will again designate by p X"^ \ Kn \ 
and p' , let us take, commencing at the point s, where / / ,.-'f'--, , ) 

these two bases meet, and on the radii sc and s c', two / / ,.--''' \ ":'^ 

lengths .?/' and sf, equal to one another and to the I <^'v; V-v'4'''' ) 

radius p" of the third base, then from the points c and c' \ / \ / J 

as centres, and with the lengths cy* and c'y as radii, \ \y ^y^ 

let us trace two arcs of a circle ; their point of intersection \,, ^* 

on c" will be the centre of the base of the third film, a base 

which we will then describe with the radius p." Let us, in effect, suppose the 
problem solved, and thi&base traced. If we draw from the point u where it termi- 
nates at one of the former the right lines u c and u c", which will be respectively 
equal to p and p", these lines will make between them an angle of 60°, like the 
right lines s c and s c' ; whence it follows that the triangle cue" will be equal to 
the triangle c sf, in which sc and *y are also respectively equal to p and p", and 
thus c c" will be equal to cf; for the same reasons the triangle c' v c" will be equal 
to the triangle c' sf', and consequently c' c" will be equal to c^ f . Let us propose 
now to trace the bases of the three partitions. Those of the three films being 
described (Fig. 17) after the preceding outline we determine, as in Fig. 11, 
the centre d of the partition pertaining to the first two films, and commencing from 
s, by drawing s d making with s c' an angle of 60°, until it meets, at d, with the 
line cc' prolonged; we determine likewise the centre y of the partition pertaining 
to the first and the third film by drawing uf, making an angle of 60° with c" u, 
until it meets, at f, with c c" prolonged ; finally, we determine by the same 
process the centre g of the third partition. There remains then only to describe 
from the points d, f, and g, as centres, and with the radii d s, fu, and g v, 
three arcs of a circle beginning, respectively, at the points s, u, and v, and directed 
toward the middle of the figure ; these arcs will be the bases of the three par- 
titions, on the hypothesis, however, that these partitions are portions of spheres. 
If the figure has been constructed with care, we shall recognize, 1st, that the 
three arcs just spoken of all terminate at the same point o; 2d, that the three 
centres, jT, d, and g, are disposed in a right line; 3d, that if we join the point o 
to these three centres, the anglesyo d and god are equal, and each of 60°. 

§ 14. But as it might be thought that these results of a graphic construction 
are merely very close and not strictly exact, I proceed to establish them abso- 
lutely, assuming, however, that the angles of the films with one another and with 
the partitions are precisely of 120°. I am indebted for this demonstration to 
M. Vander Mensbrugghe, a young doctor of sciences of our university. 



THE FIGURES OF EQUILIBRIUM OF A LIQUID MASS 265 

Let. us first demonstrate that the three centres f, d, and g, are in a right line. 
For this purpose, repeating what has been done in Fig. 11, let us take on *c a 
length 5w = * 6-' = />', and join c' w; we know that this last line will be paral- 

lei to s d, and consequently we may assume -z~- =^ ■ = — ,-. 1 or the same 

■^ ac siv [j' 

reason, in considering the two portions of circumferences which have for centres 
c and c\ and which intersect each other at m, we shall have, by simply reversing 

fc" p" 
the two ratios, - — == • ; and the two portions of circumferences having for 

y^' P 

centres c' and c", and which intersect at v, will also give -^-— - =—7—. Multi- 

• gc" i> 

dcfc"gc' 
plying these three equalities, member by member, there results—— — ■* 



dc'J'c gc" 

Let it be remarked now, 1st, that the three centres, d, f, and g, are on the 
prolongations of the sides of the triangle cc' c"; 2d, that the six quantities, dc, 
fc" ,g c',dc',J'c,gc" diVG the distances, reckoned on these same prolongations, from 
the three points d, f, and g, to the three summits c, c , and c ; od, that, in the last 
of the above formulas, the three factors of the numerator represent right lines, 
no two of .which have a common extremity, and that the same holds with regard 
to the three factors of the denominator. Now we know, by a theorem of the 
theory of transversals, that when the condition expressed by this formula is 
fulfilled in regard to any triangle, the three points in question, taken on the pro- 
longations of the three sides, are necessarily in q^ right line. Our three centres 
d,J\ and g partake, theiefore, of this property. 

This first point established, let us demonstrate the others. Let us consider 
the point o as bcang simply the intersection of the two arcs u o and v o, having 
for centres f and g ; let us join o d, of, and o g, and without inquiring at first 
whether o d i& really the radius of the arc having d for its centre, and proceed- 
ing from the point s, let us show that the angles^'o d and g o d are each of 60'^, 
or what amounts to the same, that the angle^ g is of 120°, and that the right 
line o ^ is its bisector. 

Let us seek first to determine the lengths yd' and g d, and, to this end, let us 
consider them as pertaining, respectively, to the triangles ^c d and g c' d, in 
which we can calculate the sides f c, d c, g c', and d c', as well as the angles 
which they comprise. To arrive at these last values, let us calculate the sides 
of the triangle c c' c". By means of the triangle esc, in which the sides c s 
andc' s are, respectively,/) and /s', and comprise between them an angle of 60°, 
we find without diffic»lty c dz:z.y/ p^-{-p''^ — pp' ; the triangles c u c" and c' v c" 
likewise give c c"^=^^ i?-\-p"'^ — pp", and c' c^rz:; V/Z^-f//'^ — p' p" . "Whence, by 
the known formula, we deduce 

/ „ . . P'^+{P—P'){p—P") 
cos c' cc"— cos dcf— ^ ^' '^ ')' ' ' ; 

2 ^/ p-i+pi^'—pp' ^f p^Jrp"'—pp" 
in the same way we find 

p'^Hp-p'^'-p' 

cos cc c znzcos gc d 



'2y/ p^-\-p'^—pp' y/ pi-^-YpX^—p'pii ' 
On another side we have 

fd— '^fc^+dP—2dcfc cos dcfimdi gd= ^1 dc" '^+^—2dc'.gc'. cos dc' g 
formulas in which the lines dc,fc, do', gc' still remain to be determined ; but in 
the triangle c- s d, in which we know that wc' is parallel to s d, we have 

dc dc' cc': 



266 WITHDEAWN FKOM THE ACTION OF GRAVITY. 

whence, by replacing c*, sw and c w by tbeir values p, p' and p — p', as well aa cc' 
by its value found above, we obtain 

^'=-^'^ p^-^p"—pp' ^^^ ^^"—7=^' -^p'+p'^-pp' ; 

the triangles c uj'and. c" v g, on their part, will give 

fc^-^,y/ p^-\-p"^—pp" andgc'=y/—^, y/pm^pii^piipi^ 

There results, then, after substitutions and reductions, and by making, for the 

sake of abbreviation, 

^ • 

'\/p^P^^-\-p'^p'i^+p'^p''^—P^p'p"—PP'^p"—PP'p"^==:?y 
fi— p p 

-^ {p-p'){p-p'' ' 



and consequently 
Hence we deduce 



^^ {P-P'){p"-P'f' 

p" 
fs= " .P, 

•^^ {P-P"){P"-P') 

fd^ p{p"—p') 
gd . p'{p—p") 



On the other hand, according to the result of § 7, by observing that ./ and ^ o 
are respectively equal to the radii fu and ^ t; of the two partitions which we are 
considering, we have 

PP" P"P' . f^ P{P"—P' ) 

fo = -^ — 77, go = -77 r, whence ■ — • = -77 ^. ; 

J p—p'"^ p"—p" go p{p—p) 

the two ratios "^ and — are therefore equal, and consequently the right line 
gd go 

d o\s> the bisector of the angley o g. 

Knowing, from what precedes, the three sides of the triangle/ g, we thence 
deduce, after all reductions are made, cos/o g = — ^ ; whence it results that the 
angle/o g is of 120°, and consequently that the angles/o d and godsxe each of 
60°. 

Let us seek lastly the length of the bisector d 0. With this view it is to be 

remarked that in every triangle of which one of the angles is 120°, there is a 

very simple relation between the bisector of that angle and the two sides which 

comprise it. Let ab c (Fig. 16) be a triangle in which Tig, 16 

the angle at a is 120° ; let the side Z> a be prolonged by ^^ 

a quantity a d equal to a c, and join d c; this line will 

be parallel to the bisector a h, for the angle d a c will be u ^- , 

60°; and since a di& equal to a c, the triangle dac will "^"---icr 

be equilateral, and the angle dca will be 60° like the angle cali\we shall have 

dc ha ^ , 1 J ^^^ ^^ „.i 

therefore -r = ; — ; — ;. where because dc z^ ad z^ ac, ~~ := z— j- — , and 
ah ba-\-ad o,c ba-Vac 




a""-- 



THE FIGURES OF EQUILIBRIUM OF A LIQUID MASS 267 



aJi n: 



Ti-. 17 




ba.ac 
ba+ac 



This result applied to the triangle 



fog (Fig. 17) gives therefore do=z 



fogo 



, and, 



after substitutions, do =z 



PP 



t'—l'' 



fo+go 
Now, this is 



^ \ 



\ 



i precisely (§7) the value of the radius d s oi 
• the third partition. It results, then, from the 
J,d above, as we had proposed to demonstrate, that 
! the centres of the three partitions are in a right 
i line; that the bases of these partitions meet 
I at one and the same point; finally that the 
I radii of these bases, commencing from the point 
I in question, make with one another angles of 
! 60°, .and that hence these bases unite under 
i angles of 120°. 

i Now, since we can consider the three parti- 

I tions as really constituting portions of spheres, 

j it remains to prove that these three portions 

I intersect one another by a single arc; but this 

j is what evidently follows from the centi-es f, d, 

% \ I ^ of these three spheres being in a right line, 

W j and from these same spheres having a com- 

\\ i mon point at o. Thus all the theoretic con- 

\\\ ditions are satisfied by three partitions of 

ll spherical curvature disposed, with the three 

V caps, so as to form a system having for its base 

that which was traced by the construction of the preceding paragraph ; it must 

then be regarded as extremely probable that the system will really take that 

form. 

§ 15. This, in effect, I have experimentally verified by the means heretofore de- 
scribed, (§ 11,) by tracing, namely, in broad lines on paper, in the manner indi- 
cated, the base of a system of three spherical caps with their partitions. The 
base of the laminar system thus realized has been found to be exactly superposed 
on the drawing. The graphic constructions given in preceding pages for the 
bases of systems of spherical caps implicitly suppose the law of the inverse 
ratio of the pressure to the diameter; the exact coincidence of the bases of the 
systems realized with the bases traced furnishes therefore a new verification of 
that law, in addition to the direct verification obtained in § 28 of the fifth series. 
It was to the present experiments that I had allusion in the paragraph just cited. 
§ 16. If we imagine that a fourth spherical cap unites itself with the system 
of the thi-ee preceding ones, we can conceive two different arrangements of the 
assemblage besides that in which the fourth cap should so place itself as to be 
united with but one of the others. One of these arrangements would contain 
four partitions uniting by a single edge, and the other would contain five uniting 
by two edges. To simplify the question and the graphic 
constructions, I will suppose the four caps to be equal in 
diameter, in which case all the partitions will evidently 
be plane. Then, it may be conceived, in the first place, 
that the four caps unite in such way that their centres 
shall be placed like the four summits of a square, which 
will give the system whose base is represented by 
Fig. 18, where there are four partitions terminating at 
the same edge under right angles ; this system is evi- 
dently one of equilibrium, since everything in it is sym- 
metrical. It may be conceived, in the second place, that, 



Fis. 18 




268 WITHDKAWN FROM THE ACTION OF GEAVITY. 

three caps being first united, the fourth unites itself with two of them ; in this 

arrangement, the four centres will be at the summits of a lozenge, and we 

shall have the system whose base is represented 

by Fig. 19, where there are five partitions. This 

system also is evidently, by reason of its symmetry, 

a system of equilibrium ; but here not more than 

three partitions terminate at the same liquid edge, 

forming between them angles of 120°. Now, if we/ 

attempt to realize on the glass' plate the first of \ 

these two systems, we shall either not succeed, or, if 

produced at all, its duration will be inappreciable, 

and it passes rapidly into the second. The second 

system is obtained directly without difficulty, and 

persists. Hence we may conclude that in the former system the equilibrium 

is unstable, and it thus becomes probable that four partitions terminating at 

the same edge cannot coexist. We may further remark that, in the laminar 

assemblage of Fig. 11, the semicircular liquid edge which unites the two 

spherical caps is only common to three films, namely, to these tAvo caps and to 

the partition; and these three films, we know, form between them equal angles. 

In the assemblage of fig. 17, likewise, each of the liquid edges which unite the 

caps two by two is like that which, unites the three partitions, only common 

to three films forming between them equal angles ; again, this is evidently the 

case in the assemblage of Fig. 19. 

Let us compare these facts with one of those shown by all the laminar systems 
which occupy my polyhedral frames of iron wire, when these are withdrawn 
from the saponaceous or the glyceric liquid. It has been seen (5th series, § 19) 
that in each of these systems there are never more than three films terminating 
at the same liquid edge. Here then is a general law of laminar assemblages. 
Moreover, it follows from considerations before stated (§ 8) that the angles under 
which the three films intersect one another must always be equal or differ only 
by inappreciable quantities, and this equality is easily verified, as we shall 
presently see, in all those systems which are composed of plane films. 

With regard to the instability of a system in which more than three films 
should terminate at the same liquid edge, I will recall, as another proof, the 
curious phenomenon presented in the production of the laminar system of the 
regular octahedron, when I was experimenting with oil in the interior of the 
alcoholic liquid. When, as I have said, (2d series, § 35,) after having 
formed the full octahedron, we gradually withdraw oil from it by means of the 
small syringe, the eight faces grow concave equally and at once, 
and when the films begin to form, but are still joined by thick ^ig- 20 
masses, they are all directed towards the centre of the figure, so 
that the system tends towards the arrangement which I here 
present anew, (Fig. 20,) an arrangement in which four films 
terminate at one liquid edge ; but when the thickness of the 
masses of junction is diminished to a certain limit, a sponta- 
neous change .is effected, and the system takes definitively 
another form. I will now add that, in this latter form, no 
more than three films terminate at each liquid edge. In fine, 
the laminar system of the quadrangular pyramid offers another analogous ex- 




TPIE FIGURES OF EQUILIBRIUM OF A LIQUID MASS 269 





ample equally curious. I have given, in the second series, as the outline of 
that system, the one which I reproduce here (Fif?. 21,) i;i 
which the liquid edge a h is common to the four iilms which 
proceed from the iour oblique edges of the frame-work ; but 
what then deceived me was that, with oil and in the interior 
of the alcoholic liquid, this edge preserves so considerable a 
thickness that it is impossible to raise it without occasioning a 
rupture of one of the films — a thickness which maintains the 
stability of the system; now Avhen we realize the laminar sys- 
tem of this frame by means of the glyceric liquid, the edge in 
question is found to be replaced by an additional lamina, (Fig. 22,) and then 
each liquid edge is common to no more than three films. 

The pyramid of figures 21 and 22 has more height than that 
Avhich is represented in the second series ; it is because wi:h this 
last the laminar system obtained by means of the glyceric liquid 
always presents, from its formation or shortly after, a slight ir- 
regularity in the position of the four liquid edges directed to- 
wards the summits of the base — an irregularity which is not pro- 
duced with a higher pyramid. I shall recur in the sequel to this 
irregularity, which connects itself Avith an order of facts here- 
after to be examined, and of which I shall then indicate the 
cause. 

§ 17. Let us at present remark that in the systems of figures 15 and 19 there 
are four edges terminating at the same point, namely, the three which unite two 
by two the spherical caps and that which unites the three ])artitions. Now, as 
has been seen, (oth series, § 19,) the same fact presents itself in all our laminar 
systems obtained with the glyceric liquid : the liquid edges which terminate at 
the same liquid point are always four in number; here again, then, there is a 
general law of laminar assemblages. It may be added that if we apply to the 
point in question the considerations advanced (§ S) in regard to edges, we shall 
conclude that these must intersect each other at this point under angles either 
equal or exceedingly near equality. And, in fact, the junction of the small 
concave surfaces pertaining to the edges produce, necessarily, around the point 
where they unite, four small surfaces strongly concave in all directions — sur- 
faces whose capillary equilibrium requires equal or very nearly equal, curva- 
tures!, which implies the absolute equality, or very nearly such, of the angles 
which we are considering. 

Let us seek the value of these angles, supposing their equality to be absolutely 
exact. When the liquid edges are curved, it is proper to replace the arcs by 
their tangents at the point where they terminate, so that it suffices, in all cases, 
to imagine four right lines terminating at a single point under equal angles. In 
order, therefore, to follow the most simple method, let us consider a regular te- 
Fiff. 23 trahedron abed, (Fig. 23.) Let o be the centre of this te- 

trahedron; draw the lines oa, ob, oc, od to the four summits; 
these lines will evidently form with one another equal angles, 
whose value will consequently be that which it is proposed to 
obtain. This being premised, let us prolong the line ao to 2^> 
where it attains the base, and join ^^(Z; the triangle o p d will 
be rectangular at p. Let it be remarked now that the point o is 
the centre of gravity of the tetrahedron, and that the point p is the centre of 
gravity of the base b cd; now we know that if, in any pyramid, we join the summit 
to the centre of gravity of the base, the centre of gravity of the pyramid is situated 
on that right line, at three-quarters of its length reckoning from the summit; 
op is, therefore, the third of oa, and as the point o is at an equal distance from 
the four summits, op is also the third of od. In the rectangular triangle o p d 
we have consequently cos doj) = ^ ; whence results cos doa = — ^. Thus, 




270 



WITHDRAWN FROM THE ACTION OF GRAVITY. 



when the four right lines terminate at the same point under equal angles, each 
of these angles has for its cosine — ^ ; "^e find thence that this angle is 109° 28' 
16", that is to say, very nearly 109 degrees and a half. 

Such, then, in laminar assemblages, is the value of the angles under which 
four liquid edges terminate at a liquid point. Each of these edges evidently 
unites three films, and, at least in the case of rectilinear edges, it necessarily 
results from the symmetry of ihe assemblage that these films must form be- 
tween them equal angles. 

Conversely, if the films which unite three by three along each of the four 
liquid edges form between them equal angles, these four edges also necessarily 
form between them equal angles. In effect, supposing the films to be plane, 
the system evidently constitutes an assemblage of four trihedral angles, in each 
of which the three dihedral angles are equal ; now, in virtue of a known 
theorem, this equality implies, for any one of these trihedral angles, that of 
the plane angles ; but each of these last being common to two of the trihedral 
angles, it follows that, in the system, all the plane angles, that is to say, ttte 
angles which the four edges form between them, are equal. If the films, and 
consequently also the edges, are curved, it is clear that we may, at the point 
common to these edges, replace the films by their tangential planes and the 
edges by their tangents, which will be intersections of these planes; whence it 
results that, in all cases, the equality of the angles under which the films termi- 
nate at their common point, and the equality of the angles under which three 
films unite at the same edge, are, at least in the immediate vicinity of the point 
in question, necessary consequences one of the other. 

§ 18. Let us apply this principle to the laminar assemblage, the base of which 
is represented by Fig. 17. The graphic construction of this base is founded 
on the equality of the angles under which the films and the partitions terminate 
three by three at their common edges, and has been found (§ 15) to be fully 
verified by experiment ; the four edges of the system meet then necessarily at 
their common point under equal angles. The principle evidently applies alike 
to the two points of the assemblage of Fig. 19, at which four edges terminate. 

§ 19. We will recur now to the systems formed in frames of iron wire. Those 
of them which are composed of plane films enable us to verify this equality of 
the angles between the three edges which terminate at the same liquid point, 
for we can generally apply direct measurement; they consequently enable 
us also (§ 17) to verify the equality of the angles between the three films which 
terminate at the same liquid edge. The systems of this nature which were 
realized in my frames are three, namely : that of the regular tetrahedron, that of 
the equilateral triangular prism, and that of the regular octahedron. I here re- 
produce the drawings (Figs. 24, 25; and 26.) It must not be forgotten, for the 

Fig. 25 



Fisr. 24 





Vig. 26 




understanding of these delineations and the greater part of those which follow, 
that, in the laminar systems which they represent, a film proceeds from each of 



THE FIGURES OF EQUILIBRIUM OF A LIQUID MASS 271 

the solid edges, directing itself towards the interior of the frame, and attached 
to the other films by the liquid edges which the drawings represent in fine lines 
In the first the equality in question is evident, the whole being perfectly sym 
metrical in every direction ; it will further be seen that the four liquid edges 
occupy precisely the positions of the right lines oa, oh, oc, ad, of Fig. 23. In 
the second, as the angle between the verticle edge mn, and the oblique edge np, 
for example, must have — ^ for cosine, it follows that the vertical height of 
the point n, above the plane of the base, is the third of np, whence it is easily 
deduced that, designating by a the edge^g- of the base, this vertical height is 

equal to . ■■ Accordingly, if h designate the lateral edge ]}r of the frame, 

we have mn z^ b j—. In the frame which I employed, the edge h was 

70™'".70, and the edge a 69""".23 ; * by substituting these numbers in the above 
formula we find mn z=. 42""". 44; now the measurement by the cathetometer 
gave nm ^= 42°'™. 37, a value which differs from the preceding by only 0™"'.07, 
that is, by less than two thousandths of.the one or the other. 

As to the system of the regular octahedron, it is composed of plane films 
when obtained with glyceric liquid, as I have already stated in the fifth series, 
while it is formed of curved films when realized with oil in the interior of the 
alcoholic liquid (2d series, § 35;) further on I shall indicate the cause of this 
difference, but at present I shall occupy myself only with the system of plane 
films. This system is both elegant and remarkable, consisting, as is shown 
by Fig. 26, of the following parts: 1. Six quadrilaterals elongated in the direc- 
tion of one of their angles, having each the summit of that angle at one of those 
of the frame and the summit opposite to the centre of the figures ; in each couple 

* It is here necessary to explain in what manner these valuations have been obtained. A 
frame of iron wire being incapable of geometric exactness, each of the lateral edges was 
measured separately and the mean of the results taken ; the same thing was then done in 
regard to the edges of the bases ; but these measurements were not made directly on the 
edges, because their terminations were more or less masked by the soldering. The mode 
adopted was as follows : the frame having been placed vertically, and one of its lateral faces 
in front of the cathetometer, the distance comprised between the two horizontal edges Avas 
determined, by taking sight as near the vertical edge of the right as the soldering would per- 
mit, and then doing the same near the vertical edge of the left ; afterwards the prism was 
turned on its axis, so as to present successively to the cathetometer the two other lateral 
faces, and the same operations were repeated on each of them ; thus were obtained, for the 
length of the lateral edges, six valuations diifering but little, the mean of which was found 
to be t)9'n">.83. 

This being done, the frame was placed horizontally on suitable supports in such manner 
thftt, while one of its lateral faces still looked toward the cathetometer, the two edges of the 
bases which bounded it to the right and left were vertical, and the same operations were con- 
ducted as in the former case ; then turning the prism on its axis, the two other faces were 
examined, so that, for the edges of the bases also, six values were obtained, the mean of 
which was 68™™.'36. But these two means must undergo a slight correction; the liquid 
films do not in fact terminate at the solid wires according to the generating lines of which 
the distances have to be measured, but at other generating lines still more within the frame, 
whence it follows that the two above numbers are a little too small. To make the correction 
in a simple manner, it should be remarked that when a liquid film rests on a solid surface 
moistened, it is necessarily through the intervention of a small mass with concave transverse 
curvatures, and that, if the film be plane, it is necessary, for equilibrium, that these curva- 
tures should be identically the same on both sides, which evidently requires that the plane 
of the film should be perpendicular to the solid surface. It thence results that if we prolong 
in thought the films of our system, each of them will pass by the axis of the wire on which 
it rests, and that consequently the prolonged liquid edges will alike terminate at the points 
.where these axes intersect; we may, therefore, without altering in any manner the laminar 
system, and consequently the length of the liquid edge mn, substitute, in idea, for our frame, 
the assemblage of axes of the wires which compose it, which evidently amounts to the addi- 
tion of the diameter of these wires to each of our two numbers ; now this diameter, determined 
by means of the cathetometer, was found, as the mean of ten measurements taken on the 
difterent wires, equal to 0'"™.87 ; it is by the addition of this quantity to our two numbers 
that we arrived finally at the values of b and of a given in the text. 



272 WITHDRAWN FEOM THE ACTION OF GEAVITY. 

terminating at two opposite summits of the frame, the planes of the two quadri- 
laterals are at a right angle one with the other. 2. The twelve films proceeding 
from the solid edges, films each of which is triangular and limited at two of the 
long edges of the above quadrilaterals. There is in each of these quadrilaterals 
a dimension easy to measure by the cathetometer : it is the distance comprised 
between the summits t and u of the two opposite obtuse angles. Recurring to 
the principle that these two angles, as well as that whose summit is at the cen- 
tre of the figure, must have — J as cosine, it is easily demonstrable that this 
distance t u must be exactly the third of the length of the edges of the octahedron. 
To show this, let stou (Fig. 27) be one of the quadrilaterals; draw Rg. 27 
the two diagonals tu and os, which shall intersect at a right angle 
at m; let the distance iu be designated by d, the common value of 
the three obtuse angles by a, and the length of the edge of the oc- 
tahedron by a. In the triangle ots, the angle at t being a, and the 
angle at o being ^a, the angle at s will be 180° — -|a; according 
to this, the two rectangular triangles omt and smt will give om = 

-,3i\\(\.ms = TT^TT^ — 5— ;• Let us remark now that the 




tangja tang(180° — |a) 

diagonal os, or the sum of the two lengths om and 7ns, is half the height of the 

octahedron, and consequently, as will be readily seen, is equal to —j-^. We shall 

have then -J^ I ;— + -— — — ^ — \ I = —7- But knowing that the co- 

"^ Ltang^a tang(180° — f«/J y2. 

sine of the angle a is — ^, we shall find tang^a = -\/2, and tang(180° — |a) == 

i-v/S. These values being substituted in the above formula, we obtain, as 

before said, d = —. In my frame, the measurements gave* for a the value 

g9mm_49^ of which the third is 23"i™.16; and for the distance d, the value 
23"^°^.14. The difference 0"^'^.02 between the value calculated and the value 
measured, it will be seen, is even more insignificant than in the preceding case. 

I have said (5th series, § 19) that a solid frame being given as to its form, 
it might be proposed, as a geometric problem, to occupy the interior with an 
assemblage of surfaces subjected to the laws which govern my laminar systems ; 
now this has been done by M. Lamarle in regard to the regular octahedron by 
supposing all the surfaces to be plane, and he has thus found a system identical 
with that which he had seen produced in my frame. 

§ 20. The laminar systems of other frames — those, namely, which contain 
curved films, and consequently curved liquid edges — also verify, and in a very 
curious though somewhat less precise manner, the equality of the angles under 
which these edges terminate at the same liquid point ; they also verify, at least 
in the immediate vicinity of the latter, (§ 17,) the equality of the angles between 
the three films which join one another at each of these same edges. 

* A regular octahedral frame may be considered as formed of an assemblage of three 
squares of iron wire whose planes cut one another diagonally, whence the frame was so 
placed that these squares should present themselves successively in front of the cathetometer 
with two of cheir sides directed vertically, and, in the three positions of the frame, the dis- 
tance comprised between the two horizontal wires was measured as near as possible to each 
of these vertical wires. Thus were obtained twelve values, whose mean was 68™'^.59 ; 
moreover, eight measurements of the diameter of different wires were taken, which gave as a 
mean O^^.OU. For the reasons stated in the preceding note, this diameter was added to the 
former number, and thus was found the value of a indicated in the text. As regards that of 
d, since small irregularities of the frame might introduce slight differences between the six 
quadrilaterals, that distance was measured in each of them, and the value of </ given in the 
text is the mean of those six measui'ements. 




TTIE riGUEES OF EQUILILKIUM OF A LIQUID MASS 273 

Let us take as a first example the laminar system of the cubic frame, a sys- 
tem whose outline is reproduced in Fig. 28.* Each of the 
, Jig. 28 angles of the central quadrangular lamina being 109 degrees 

and a half, and consequently superior to a right angle, it re- 
sults that the sides of that lamina cannot be rectilinear and 
must constitute arcs slightly convex towards the exterior; this, 
in effect, is what the realized system exhibits. 

I have represented in Fig. 25 the laminar system of the 
equilateral triangular prism, and have said that, designating 
by a the lengtli of the edges of the bases, the height of 
each of the laminar pyramids which rest on those bases is 

equal to — y- ; but it will be understood that if the height of 

the prism is less than double that quantity, or, in other terms, less than 0.4 of the 
sides of the bases, the system in question could not be produced. In this case, 
analogy, with other systems, of which I shall speak hereafter, had led me to 
foresee that the system would be composed of an equilateral triangular film 
parallel to the bases, placed at equal distances from these last, and attached by 
other films to all the solid edges ; but as the angles of this laminar triangle 
must be 109 degress and a half, and the angles of an equilateral triangle with 
rectilinear sides are but 60°, it followed necessarily that the sides of our laminar 
triangle were convex towards the exterior, like those of the lamina of the sys- 
tem of the cube, but that their curvatures were much more decided ; now this 
was fully verified by experiment, except that the curvatures showed themselves 
very strong only in the vicinity of the summits. The height of my frame was 
about a third of the lengtli of the sides of the bases. Fig. 29 repre- 
sents this system as seen from above, which therefore constitute 
a second example in support of the proposition in question. 

In the third place, if we take for a frame that of a regular pen- 
tagonal prism whose height is not too great relatively to the 
dimensions of the bases, the laminar system presents, at the mid- 
dle of its height, a pentagonal film parallel to the bases, and to which attach 
themselves, as to the triangular film of the preceding system, all the films 
proceeding from the solid edges. Now, the angles of two contiguous side of 
a regular pentagon being 108°, and thus very near our angle of 109^°, it fol- 
lows that the sides of the pentagonal film must be obviously straight, and this 
again experiment confirms. In the frame I employed, the length of the edges of 
the bases is five centimetres, and the height of the prism six centimetres; the 
sides of the pentagonal film are about two centimetres, and the eye can there 
distinguish no curvature. In this system, the films which proceed from the solid 
edges of the bases and attach themselves to the sides of the central pentagon 
appear plane, as they should do, since they rest on one hand upcn the rectilinear 
edges of the bases, and on the other upon the visibly straight sides of the central 
film; it thence follows that the oblique liquid edges which pass from the sum- 
mits of the bases to those of the central pentagon appear straight. As to the 

* In this system, the liquid edges which proceed from the summits of the frame are in 
reality not altogether straight ; but, as was said in the fifth series with reference to this same 
design, the cui-vatures of these edges are too feeble to be shown in the engraving. 

18 s66 




274 



WITHDRAWN FROM THE ACTION OF GRAVITY. 




Fig. 31 



triangular films which proceed from the solid vertical edges, they are strictly- 
plane by reason of the symmetry of their position. Tiie sys- 
tem in question is represented by Fig. 30. 

In the fourth place, if the frame is that of a regular hexag- 
onal prism, the laminar system is analogous to the preceding in 
its general disposition, the central film, however, being hexag- 
onal; but as the angle of two contiguous sides of a regular 
hexagon is 120°, that is to say, considerably superior 1o our 
angle of 109i°, the sides of the film in question must be sen- 
sibly curved towards the interior, and this also is shown in the 
realized system. The height of the frame which I have em- 
ployed is to the distance of two opposite sides of the base, or, 
in other terms, to the diameter of the circle which might be inscribed at that 
base, as 7 to 6. 

§ 21. The facts I have stated (^§ 16) to show that a system in which more than 
three films terminate under equal angles at the same liquid edge is in an un- 
stable state of equilibrium, beat- also upon the systems which present more than 
four edges terminating at the same time at the same liquid point. The instabil- 
ity might, therefore, be attributed to this latter circumstance, and it is requisite 
to determine whether it pertains exclusively to the one or the other, or only to 
their combination. In order to do so, let us take as a solid frame 
the assemblage of two rectangles which cut one another at a I'ight 
angle in the middle of two of their opposite sides (Fig. 31.) The 
most simple laminar system which we can imagine in this frame 
would be composed of four plane films occupying, respectively, the 
four halves of the rectangles, and terminating at a single rectilinear 
edge a b, (Fig. 32,) which would join the two points -pj^ 
of intersection of these rectangles. This system, by ° 
reason of its symmetry, would evidently be a system of 
equilibrium, and would present no liquid point com- 
mon to several edges; but the edge a b would be common to four 
films. Now, when we withdraw this frame from the glyceric liquid, 
it is never found to be occupied by the system just indicated. In 
that which is realized, instead of the edge a b, there 
is (Fig. 33) a plane film terminated by two curved 
edges, to which the films proceeding from the solid 
edges attach themselves ; films which, then, are necessarily curved. 
Here, it will be seen, each of the two liquid edges is common only 
to three films; and it must be inferred from this, that instability 
is really a property of laminar systems in which this condition is 
not fulfilled. 

As to the second circumstance, I will first remark that if, in 
the cubic frame, we imagine a system of twelve triangular plane 
films proceeding, respectively, from twelve solid edges, and termi- 
.nating at the centre of the frame, (Fig. 34.) this system, because 
of its perfect symmetry, will necessarily be a system of equi- Fig. 34 
librium, and it is readily seen that at each liquid edge only 
tliree .films will termimdnate, which, moreover, will form among 
them equal angles; but there will be eight liquid edges termi- 
nating at the central point. Now, we know that with the gly- 
ceric liquid this system is not produced, and that we always 
obtain that of Fig. 28, in which only four liquid edges terminate 
at each of the summits of the central quadrangular lamina. 
From this fact we may conclude that instability pertains also to 
every system in which one liquid point is common to more than 
four edges. 



Fig. 33 





THE FIGURES OF EQUILIBFJUM OF A LIQUID MASS 275 

In describing (2d series, §§31 and 33) the operation by means of which the 
himinar system of the cube is produced with oil in the alcoholic liquid, it was 
said that we arrive, with certain precautious, but only during the action of the 
small syringe, at the system of Fig. 34 ; and here again is curious proof in sup- 
port of what precedes. In effect, the extremity of the beak of the syringe, 
Avhich occupies the centre of the system, constitutes, at that centre, a solid 
point, and we know that this condition suffices to maintain the stability : hence, 
as Avas said in the paragraphs cited, a change takes place when the syringe is 
n-moved. If it is withdrawn slowly, we observe the development of the quad- 
rangular additional lamina of Fig. 28, and if quickly, the rapid formation of a 
small central mass of a certain thickness, and the system is still maintained ; 
but we know (§ IG) that a small thickish mass can give stability to a system 
which would be unstable without its presence. 

We can liktwise obtain, and in a permanent manner, with the glyceric liquid, 
the system of Fig. 34, but it is by introducing into this system also a solid 
part ; it suffices, in effect, to stretch from one summit of the frame to the oppo- 
site summit a very fine iron wire ; yet, when the fiame thus arranged is with- 
drawn from the glyceric liquid, the system which occupies it is not immediately 
that in question; it still contains a quadrangular lamina, but this is much smaller 
than that of Fig 28, and is not placed symmetrically as regards the frame; it 
rests by one of its summits on the middle of the solid diagonal, but it is soon 
observed to diminish in extent, spontaneously, until it is completely annulled, 
so that the system then becomes that of Fig. 34. Here things rest, and the 
system rema'ns perfectly stable in that state, at least when the decrease of the 
lamina is effected with sufficient slowness. But often this decrease is more rapid, 
and then another singular phenomenon presents itself. At the instant wlien 
the lamina is annulled, another much smaller is seen to be formed, situated on 
the opposite side of the solid diagonal, having its plane perpendicular to that of 
the first, and resting, no longer by a summit, but by the middle of one of its 
sides on the middle of the solid diagonal;* then this second lamina decreases 
and is annulled like the preceding. In this case, therefore, the system only at- 
tains its definitive form by a species of oscillation. 

I shall indicate in another series the reason of the instability of systems in 
which more than three films terminate at a single liquid edge, and more than 
four edges at a single liquid point ; but it will be seen, in the mean time, that 
stability must exist in the case of three films at the same liquid edge, and of 
four edges at the same liquid point ; for three is evidently the smallest possible 
number of films terminating at one single edge, and there can be no difficiilty 
in admitting that four is the smallest possible number of edges terminating at 
the same liquid point. 

§ 22. The two laws which we have been discussing must now, I think, be 
regarded as well established for all laminar assemblages. Now, these laws con- 
duct us to a very remarkable consequence. The froth which forms on certain 
liquids, as, for instance, on champagne wine, beer, soap-water agitated, white of 
eg'^ beaten, &c., are evidently laminar assemblages, composed of a multitude of 
laminaj or partitions, which intersect one another and confine small portions of 
gas. Consequently, though everything therein seems guided by accident, they 
must be subject to these same laws, hence their innumerable partitions necessa- 
rily unite throughout, three by three, under equal angles, and all their edges 
are so distributed that there are always four terminating at the same point and 
forming these equal angles. 

I have verified these facts by the following experiment : The bowl of a pipe 

* My frame having been accidentally put out of shape and then repaired, the second 
lamina, when it was produced, no longer placed itself in the manner above indicated. The 
difiorence proceeded, no doubt, from a slight irregularitj' existing in the frame, either before 
or after its reparation. 



276 WITHDRAWN FROM THE ACTION OF GRAVITY. 

held a little obliquely was plunged to tlie bottom of a vessel containing glyceric 
liquid, and by continued blowing a numerous series of bubbles of quite large 
size were made to traverse tbe liquid. This occasioned, as is done by children 
with soap-bubbles, the formation of a partitioned mass rising above the edge of 
the vessel, a mass evidently of the same constitution with froth, but of which 
the different parts have much larger dimensions. Now, as far as the eye could 
penetrate, without embarrassment, into this system, it was observed that every- 
where the same edge was common to only three partitions, and that there were 
never more than four edges terminating at the same point. As regards the 
equality of the angles between these edges, there were certain places where 
three of those which terminated at one point seemed to be nearly in the same 
plane ; but, on looking more attentively, it was ascertained that these edges were 
strongly Inflected in approaching their point of concourse. 

The generation of such a mass, and consequently that of froth, is easily ex- 
plained. The first bubbles of gas which reach the surface of. the liquid give 
rise to spherical caps, which form groups like those with which we have been 
previously occupied, and presently the whole surface of the liquid is covered 
with them ; the films produced by the subsequent gaseous bubbles necessarily 
lift up this first assemblage, by occasioning the formation of partitions beneath, 
so that, in a short time, there are two systems of superposed films, and the gas- 
eous bubbles continuing to arrive, this assemblage is elevated in its turn, and so 
in succession, the whole arranging itself with more or less symmetry, according 
to the differences of volume of the successive gaseous bubbles, and the distri- 
bution of the points where they attain the surface of the liquid, and the slight 
edifice composed of partitions imprisoning within the spaces which they sepa- 
rate all the volumes of gas which respectively constituted the bubbles, acquires 
greater and greater height. If the bubbles are very minute, the partitioned 
edifice will be composed of parts too small to be in general distinguished by the 
eye, and in that case there is froth. 

§ 23. Let us return now to the laminar systems of the frames and complete 
their study. We will first see how the films which proceed from each of the 
solid edges are generated, and for this let us take a very simple example. Sup- 
pose that one of the upper rings of § 14 of the 5th series, that is to say, a hori- 
zontal ring of iron wire, sustained, like our frames, by a fork, be plunged into 
soap^water or glyceric liquid, and then withdrawn with due quickness, while 
kept always parallel with the surface ; as long as the distance from the ring to 
the plane of the liquid is very small, the liquid will rise a little, by capillary 
action, presenting, at the exterior and interior of the ring, two small surfaces 
with concave meridian curvatures. Now, it is easy to see that in proportion as 
the ring continues to ascend these two small surfaces will become more and 
more concave in a meridian direction. We know, in effect, that when we raise 
a solid disk previously brought into contact by its under face with the surface 
of a liquid capable of moistening it, the portion of this liquid raised by the disk 
above the exterior level soon presents, in the meridian direction, a concavity 
which increases in proportion as the disk rises. The same thing, then, must 
also take place with regard to that one of our small surfaces which faces out- 
wardly, and it is clear that the other small surface, that, namely, which faces 
the interior space of the ring, must, for the capillary equilibrium of the little 
mass raised by this ring, undergo analogous modifications. 

Our two small surfaces, will continue, therefore, mutually approaching as the 
ring ascends until they nearly touch one another. But they cannot thus ap- 
proach without expelling a portion of the liquid comprised between them; now, 
if the ascension of the ring is not too slow, the viscosity and cohesion of the 
liquid will act here as in the case of § 1, and for the same reasons there will be 
formed a film, which will extend between the small portion of liquid that 
remained suspended along the ring and the small annular mass elevated at the 



THE FIGURES OF EQUILIBRIUM OF A LIQUID MASS 277 

surface of the liquid of the vessel. These considerations, it is clear, would 
apply also to the case in which the ring, while being withdrawn, is oblique or 
vertical instead of horizontal, and would alike apply to the case where the wire, 
instead of being circularly curved, should be arranged in any polygon : there 
would always be formed, by the same causes, a film between it and the- surface 
of the liquid ; if, then, we plunge one of our frames into soap-water or glyceric 
liquid, the iron wires which compose it will, in proportion as they afterwards 
emerge from the liquid, be connected with the latter by hlms, as experiment will 
evince. 

§ 24. Let us examine, in the second place, the manner in which the films 
which are to constitute the system arrange themselves while being withdrawn 
and immediately after withdrawal. "We will begin with the case of a prismatic 
frame which is withdrawn with the bases held horizontally. When the upper 
base emerges from the liquid, each of the solid edges of which it is composed 
will be followed, as just shown, by a film. Now, if the angle comprised between 
two adjacent lateral faces of the prism is equal or superior to 120° — that is to 
say, to one of the equal angles which three films terminating at the same liquid 
edge form between them, the films, which will proceed from all the edges of the 
base must, as we shall see, remain attached to the vertical solid edges so long 
as the inferior base shall not have emerged from the liquid. 

Let us take as an example the frame of a regular hexagonal prism, a prism 
for which the angle of two adjacent lateral faees is 120°, and consider it when 
it is onl}'- partly without the liquid. Suppose, for an instant, that the films 
which proceed from the edges of the superior base re-enter towards the interior 
of the frame, in which case other films will necessarily proceed from the vertical 
edges to terminate at the liquid edges which will unite the former. All these 
films will be attached to the liquid of the vessel by small masses raised along 
their lower borders, (§ 3,) masses which will present, in the direction of their 
height, strong concave curvatures. Let us, at present, direct our attention to 
such of these small masses only as furnish the base of the films proceeding from 
the edges of the base of the frame ; if these masses are curved in the direction 
of their length, this longitudinal curvature will always, as is readily understood, 
be very feeble in relation to the above transverse curvatures, so that the influ- 
ence of these last will much predominate ; it will be necessary, therefore, for the 
capillary equilibrium of these small masses, that the transverse curvatures of 
their two surfaces should be sensibly the same, which evidently requires that 
the films which rest on their crests should terminate there in a direction very 
nearly vertical. The films in question, those, namely, which proceed from the 
edges of the base, must consequently be inflected in descending towards the 
liquid, and thus will be, in the direction of their height, convex towards the in- 
terior of the figure. But as they will be in contact by their two faces with the 
open atmosphere they can exert no pressure on the air, and thence it results 
(5th series, § 12) that their mean curvature will be null, or, in other terms, that at 
each of their points, the curvatures, in two rectangular directions, will be equal 
and opposite; therefore, since the films in qiiestion are convex in the direction 
of their height, they will be concave in the direction of the r breadth. Now, for 
the two-fold reason of this concavity and of their re-entering direction towards 
the interior of the frame, our films will necessarily form between thim, two by 
two, angles superior to those of the faces of the prism, and consequently superior 
to 120'-', a thing which we know to be impossible; hence, these films must 
remain, as 1 before stated, adherent to the lateral solid edges so long as the 
whole frame is not out of the liquid. This deduction is fully confirmed by ex- 
periment : when the frame of a regular hexagonal prism is withdrawn, in the 
position indicated, from the glyceric liquid, we simply obtain, until the lower 
base has emerged, plane films occupying all the lateral faces. 

The thickness of the wires, a thickness which, in my frames, approximates to 



278 WITHDRAWN FROM THE ACTIOX OF GRAVITY. 

a millimetre, might seem sufficient of itself to establish iuflepenclence among these 
films, but this thickness is here of no importance. I have caused a hexagonal 
prismatic frame to be constructed in which the lateral edges were formed of mere 
hairs, and yet everything has taken place in exactly the same manner. In this 
frame, whose arrangement it would be difficult to represent by an engraving, the 
upper base is raised by small springs, in such a way that the hairs, which are 
elongated in the liquid, shall continue to be stretched. 

§ 25. But it may be readily conceived that in the case of a frame of which 
the bases have less than six sides the incidents will be different, for then the 
lateral faces making between them angles of less than 120°, the films which 
proceed from two adjacent edges of the superior base, and which, along the cor- 
responding vertical solid edge, would be in communication by the medium of the 
liquid which moistens that edge, must tend to detach themselves from this same 
edge, and be both directed towards the interior of the frame, to the end of re- 
establishing between them the angle of 120° ; then, also, they will develop a 
third film proceeding from the vertical solid edge in question, in such manner 
that these films shall be united by an oblique liquid edge proceeding from the 
point of junction of the three solid edges. This also experiment verifies: when 
we withdraw from the liquid a prismatic frame with square base or the cubJc 
frame, v/e see the films assume a re-entering direction as soon as the superior 
base has emerged, and the effect is still more decided with the frame of the 
equilateral triangular prism ; it will be observed, at the same time, that these 
films conform to what 1 have advanced in the preceding paragraph — that is to 
say, they become inflected in order to terminate at the surface of the liquid in a 
vertical direction, and that they are concave in the direction of their breadth. 

As regards the regular pentagonal prism, for which the angle of two adjacent 
lateral faces is lOS-", and consequently little inferior to 120'', it may be con- 
ceived that the tendency of the films to re-enter must be feeble, and that hence 
the thickness of the wires of which the solid edges of my usual frames are 
formed, suffices in this case to establish independence between the films : thus, 
with the pentagonal frame of Fig. 30, we obtain, while withdrawing it, only 
plane films in the lateral faces ; but I have caused to be made a frame in Avhich 
the lateral edges were of very fine iron wire, and then the films re-entered ; but, 
as might be expected, they re-entered much less than in the two preceding 
frames. This frame with fine lateral edges is represented by pj^_ 35 

Fig. 35. The superior base is sustained by two handles a 
and I, by which the frame is to be held in immersing it. 
§ 2.6. Let us now see how these different systems are com- 
pleted, when we continue to raise the frames. We will take, 
first, the case of the hexagonal prism, and suppose that the 
frame has the relative dimensions indicated at the end of § 
20. When the inferior base rises from the liquid, a film will 
be formed, as with the ring of § 23, extending from that base 
to the surface of the liquid, a film which will continue to become thinner from 
above downwards. If we still raise the frame, a point will soon be reached 
at which the equilibrium of this film will be no longer possible, for it then 
spontaneously and rapidly contracts, closes in separating from the liquid of 
the vessel, and becomes a plane film in the inferior base of the prism. But 
this plane film making right angles with those which occupy the lateral 
faces cannot, according to what has been said in the preceding paragraph, 
persist in this manner ; things must so shape themselves that it shall make with 
the lateral films angles of 120°. Now, this is effected in the most simple man- 
ner : the plane film in question ascends into the interior of the frame, diminishing 
at the same time in extent, as if drawing to itself the lateral films, while other 
films proceeding from each of the vertical wires attach themselves to these 
lateral ones along the liquid edges Avhich unite them two by two, and equihbrium 




THE FIGURES OF EQUILICKIUM OF A LIQUID MASS 279 

is cstablisliocl when the central film has attained half the height of the frame, 
because then the whole is symmetrical ; we have thus the system spoken of at 
the end of § 20. 

It will be understood that in this system the oblique films, which direct 
themselves towards the central film, can only form, two by two, angles of 120^ 
on the condition of being convex, in the direction of their breadth, towards the 
interior of the figure, which again implies the re-entering curvature of the sides 
of the central film ; but, by reason of the necessity of a mean curvature null, 
this convexity requires that the films in question should be concave in the direc- 
tion of their height ; in this way all the laws are satisfied, and in the system 
realized these two opposite curvatures are verified in the oblique films. As to 
the central film and the films which proceed from the lateral solid edges, these 
are necessarily plane, because of their sj'uimetrical position in relation to the 
others. In tiiis system it is to be remarked that the oblique liquid edges which 
pass to the summits of the central film do not proceed exactly from the sum- 
mits of the two bases, but from points situated at a small distance from these 
last summits, on the lateral solid edges ; of this we shall see the reason in the 
sequel. 

§ 27. We pass now to the cases of the pentagonal prism with fine lateral 
edges, the quadrangular prism or cube, and the triangular prism, cases in Avhich 
the films proceeding from the edges of the supei'ior base take, as has been seen, a 
re-entering direction when that base emerges from the liquid. When these films 
begin to show themselves the small masses raised at their lower borders will 
necessarily describe on the surface of the liquid a polygon of the same number 
of sides with the solid base — that is to say, a pentagon, a quadrilateral, or a trian- 
gle, according to the frame employed. But, as the films in question are vertical 
at their lower part and are joined under angles of 120°, it is necessary that the 
sides of the above polygons should also form between them angles of 120°, 
which evidently requires that they be convex towards the exterior ; these sides 
must, moreover, partake the horizontal curvature of the films, a curvature which 
we know to be concave towards the interior of the figure, and consequently 
convex towards the exterior. This convexity of the sides of our polygons will 
be slight for the pentagon, more decided for the quadrilateral, and still more so 
for the triangle. All this likewise is found to be verified by experiment. 

These first facts being established, we will follow separately the develojD- 
ment of the laminar system in each of the three frames, in proportion as it is 
more and more elevated. 

With the pentagonal frame, the curvilinear pentagon, which takes form at the 
surface of the liquid, at first undergoes a slight contraction, but again enlarges 
when a sufficiently considerable part of the height of the frame is out of the 
liquid ; and when the inferior base attains the surface the re-entering films at- 
tach themselves by their lower borders on the sides of that base. These films, 
however, do not then occupy the lateral faces of the prism; they slightly re- 
enter, in the direction of their height, towards the interior of the frame, so as to 
be united, two by two, by liquid edges, each of which constitutes an arc of feeble 
curvature resting by its two extremities on those of a lateral solid edge. Finally, 
some short time after the emergence of the inferior base, the phenomena are com- 
pleted as in the frame of the preceding paragraph — that is to say, the film pro- 
duced between the base in question and the liquid occupies this base under a 
pLme form, and then ascends rapidly, drawing to itself, at the same time, the 
other fihns, so as to give, in fine, the system of Fig. 30. 

With the frame of the quadrangular prism, the curvilinear quadrilateral formed 
at the surface of the liquid is soon annnUed, and is replaced by a small horizontal 
liquid edge, from the extrer.-itics of which proceed two descending liquid edges, 
which continue to diverge from one another ; these three edges limit a vertical plane 
film parallel to two of the fiices of the prism, and attached by other fihns to the 



280 WITHDEAWN FEOM THE ACTION OF GRAVITY. 

solid edges. No essential cliange takes place when the elevation of the frame 
is continued ; the plane film just mentioned increases in height and becomes 
broader at its lower part, until the inferior base of the prism begins to appear 
at the surface of the liquid: at this time the two descending liqmd edges rest by 
their extremities on the middle of two opposite sides of that base; after the com- 
plete emergence of which the film which occupies it is rapidly transformed into 
four oblique films, two trapeziums, and two triangles, which complete the system. 
In the particular case of the cube we have thus the system of Fig. 28. If the 
height of the frame be greater than the length of the sides of the bases, the oblique 
films which rest on these last are identically the same as for the cube, and the 
films proceeding from the lateral edges as well as the central plane film have 
simply more height. 

Lastly, with the frame of the triangular prism, the curvilinear triangle at the 
surface of the liquid decreases more rapidly, and disappears when the frame 
has emerged by a very small quantity, so that the triangular pyramid which is 
to rest on the superior base in the definitive system is already completed ; if 
the frame be still raised, we see a vertical and straight liquid edge extend itself 
from the summit of this pyramid to the surface of the liquid, an edge which is 
common to the three films proceeding from the lateral solid edges. This state 
of things continues while the elevation of the frame proceeds, the three films 
and the vertical liquid edge merely go on increasing in height until the emergence 
of the inferior base ; then the film which presents itself in this base is instan- 
taneously converted into the second triangular pyramid, which thus completes 
the system of Fig. 25 ; it should be understood, hoAvever, that the frame is 
supposed to have sufficient height not to give the system of Fig. 29. 

§ 28. Let us take now a frame which is symmetrical around an axis passing 
by a summit, such as that of a regular pyramid, a regular octahedron, &c., 
and withdraw it by this summit. It is evident that in this case there could not 
be formed films occupying the faces which terminate at the summit in question, 
for the space which they would leave between themselves and the liquid would 
be void of air. It is absolutely necessary, therefore, that the films proceeding 
respectively from each of the solid edges should be directed towards the interior 
of the frame. 

If there are only three solid edges meeting at the summit in question, and 
symmetrically disposed, as in the tetrahedron, or the cube when withdrawn 
by a summit, it is clear that the films proceeding from these three solid edges 
will be united by a single liquid edge descending vertically from the solid sum- 
mit to the surface of the liquid of the vase, and this, in fact, is what takes 
place. With the regular tetrahedron this state of things continues until after 
tho withdrawal of the solid base, when the system completes itself in the same 
manner with that of the triangular prism, and yields the result shown in Fig. 
24. If there are more than three solid edges terminating at the summit which 
we withdraw, it follows necessarily, from the fact of the instability spoken of in 
§§16 and 21, that additional films should be formed. Let us take as an example 
the regular octahedron. It will readily be conceived that the films proceeding 
from the four solid edges will unite, not by a single liquid edge, but by two 
liquid edges proceeding from the summit and bounding a vertical auxiliary film, 
so that at each of these last edges terminate three films, forming between them 
equal angles. The auxiliary film is destined to form, in the complete laminar 
system, the superior quadrilateral, (Fig. 26.) Until the square, a common 
base of the two pyramids which constitute the octahedron, emerges from the 
liquid, the assemblage of films preserves the same arrangement ; then, while 
the withdrawal of the frame proceeds, modifications are produced, which it 



THE FIGURES OF EQUILIBRIUM OF A LIQUID MASS 281 



Jiff. 36 




JiS. 37 



would detain us too long to describe, and in consequence of which the system 
tends towards the form represented at Fig. 36, where the two 
faces abc and ah'c are each occupied by a phme fihn. This 
form is completely attained at the moment when the inferior 
summit of the frame emerges from the liquid, but a change 
speedily occurs, and the system takes the form of Fig. 'Z'o. 
Although this change is very rapid, we may yet, by proper 
, attention and by repetition of the experiment, observe how it 
^ is produced : the two films which occupied (Fig. 36) the fjicea 
ahc and a'h'c rise towards the interior of the frame by turning 
around the solid edges ah and ah' , and at the same time there 
is developed from the inferior summit a quadrilateral, at first 
" very small, but which increases until its superior summit at- 

tains the centre of the frame, and which then constitutes the inferior quad- 
rilateral of the definitive system; at the same time the summits y and g of 
the curvilinear quadrilateral sfgc ascend by a certain quantity, this quadrilat- 
eral shrinks, its edges become straight, and it finally forms the superior quad- 
rilateral of the same definitive system. Fig. 37 represents the 
phenomenon in course of formation, at the moment when the 
quadrilateral, which is extending, has acquired half of its ulti- 
mate height. It will be easily conceived from this drawing 
how the four other quadrilaterals of Fig. 26 are generated. 

In order that all these phenomena should, with almost entire 
certainty, be produced, it is necessary that the frame should be 
withdrawn quite vertically ; it is further necessary that this 
frame should be well constructed, that the iron wires which 
compose it should be of the least possible thickness, and, above 
all, that at the summits of the octahedron they should unite in 
the neatest manner, at least on the side which faces the interior of the frame ; 
when this is not the case, the laminar figures obtamed are often iri'egular. It 
should be added that the frame in question sometimes gives, when it is a little 
inclined in being withdrawn from the liquid, a system wholly different from 
that of Fig. 26, regular like it, but formed of curved films. This second 
system contains in the middle an hexagonal film, placed parallel to two faces 
of the octahedron, and having its sides slightly re-entering (§ 20 ;) these sides 
are attached to the summits of the above two faces by triangular films, and to 
the edges of these same faces by trapezoidal films ; moreover, the summits of 
the film in question are attached by triangular films to the other solid ed^s. 

The different examples which I have given in detail will suffice to make it 
understood how laminar systems are generated, and to show that theory can 
render an account of all the particulars which this generation presents. 

§ 29. In § 19, of the 5th series, I stated the laws which govern the laminar 
systems of polyhedral frames, when these systems are formed. Of these laws, 
which are five in number, three have already been discussed, (§§ 16 to 23:) 
they relate to the number of films terminating at the same liquid edge, and 
the equality of the angles between these films; the number of liquid edges 
terminating at the same liquid point, and the equality of their angles; lastly, the 
formation of a film proceeding from each solid edge. Let us now consider the 
two other laws. 

One of these rests upon the fact that if care be taken that there .shall be no 
bubble of air at the surface of the liquid of the vessel before the frame is 
plunged therein, the laminar system will present no space closed on all sides by 
fihns, and that hence all the fihns will be in contact by their two faces with the 
ambient air. In effect, if, while the frame is being withdrawn, the system, 
before it undergoes the rapid modification which gives to it its final arrangement, 
contained a space closed uu all sides by films, this space must have originated 




282 WITHDEAAYN FEOM THE ACTION OF GEAVITY. 

duriBg, and have increased in proportion to the elevation of the frame; now 
this is impossible, for the air which must fill it would have had no passage by 
which it could have entered ; for the same reason the system, at this period of 
its generation, could present no space closed in part by films and in part by the 
surface of the liquid; in fine, when the rapid modification is effected, the film 
or films which then ascend into the system finding no space of the second kind 
to complete its laminar closure, the complete system will necessarily satisfy the 
law in question. 

The last law is the following: when the conditions of other laws can be 
fulfilled by plane surfaces, the films take that form ; when this cannot be, all 
the films or several of them become more or less curved, but always in such 
manner as to constitute surfaces of mean curvature null. The first part of this 
law is a matter rather of evidence than demonstration ; the plane being the 
most simple surface, nature, which ahvays proceeds by the least complicated 
methods, will not unnecessarily give curved forms to the films. The second 
part of the law follows from the first, and I have already made application of it 
in what 1 have previously stated respecting the laminar systems of prismatic 
frames. 

It is proper that a reason should be here given for the special fact that the 
laminar system of the regular octahedron is formed of curved films when it is 
obtained with oil in the alcoholic liquid. We have seen (§ 16) that in this 
mode of producing laminar systems the thickness of small remaining masses 
has great influence. Now, in the octahedral frame, when, by the gradual with- 
drawal of oil, the point has been reached at which the system is spontaneously 
modified, since the masses of junction have still a considerable thickness', and 
the oil which composes them accumulates, in the definitive system, around the 
points where four liquid edges would terminate, so as to form masses much 
thicker than the edges in question, and since, in fine, several of these edges are 
sufficiently short for the masses which occupy their extremities to be in commu- 
nication of curvature with one another, it will be readily conceived that there 
must result from thence an influence on the form of the edges and of the films ; 
and it cannot be doubted, that if we might, without occasioning the rupture of 
the system, sufiiciently reduce the thickness of the masses in question, all the ' 
films would become plane. 

§ 30. To return to the systems of the prismatic frames : Besides the facts al- 
ready stated, these systems have presented others equally curious, which I here 
propose to notice. 

The system obtained with the pentagonal frame of Fig. 30 is, as was seen, 
(§ 20,) composed of films obviously plane. Now, if we consider the oblique 
films which proceed from two homolos^ous sides of the two bases to unite at one 
of the sides of the central pentagonal film, and recollect that these two oblique 
films must form between them an angle of 120°, it will be evidently seen that, 
for bases of given dimensions, an augmentation in the height of the prism in- 
volves a diminution in the extent of the central pentagonal film, and that there 
is a limit of height beyond which the existence of this film is impossible. It 
will be found, without difiiculy, that the limit in question corresponds to the 
case in which the ratio between the height of the prism and the diameter of the 
circle which might be inscribed at the base would be equal to V 3, that is to 
say, to 1.732. 

It might naturally be asked. What becomes of the laminar system wh>=-n this 
limit is overpassed ? In order to know this, I had a frame constructed in 
which the height was about 2J times the diameter of the inscribed circle, and it 
yielded me a singular resrJt. When it is withdrawn from th^ glyceric liquid, 
as the lateral edges are of ordinary iron wire, all the lat-^ral faces are at first oc- 
cupied by plane films, and after complete emergence, a plane film is f,>rmed ali-o 
in the inferior base, then ascends among the others, forming a pentagon which 




THE FIGURES OF EQUILIBRIUM OF A LIQUID MASS 283 

continues decreasing, everything occurring as witli .the frame of Fig. 30 ; but 
the pentagonal film decreases much more r.ipidly, then disappears, and at the 
instant the system undergoes an abrupt change, assuming an odd arrang<-ment 
■which it would be difficult to represent clearly in perspective, but of which I 
shall still attempt to give an idea. On the two bases respectively rest two iden- 
tical assemblages, composed of five curved • films ; one of these assemblages is 
Fi"- 3S represented in projection on the plane of the base by Fig. 38 
It will be seen that there are in each of them a pentagonal film, 
two quadrangular and two triangular films. These two assem- 
blages are connected with each other by films which [)roceed 
from the five lateral edges of the prism, and by two other inter- 
mediate films, whose direction is also in the length of the frame, 
and which proceed from the liquid edges a h and h c of one of these assem- 
blages to terminate at the homologous liquid edges of the other. There is no 
need of remarking that the same thing would occur if, instead of overpassing 
the indicated limit, we should simply attain it — that is to say, if we gave to 
the prism the height which Avould precisely correspond to the annulling of 
the pentagonal film ; in eftect there would then be ten liquid edges terminating 
at the centre of the system, iu the same liquid point, and consequently equili- 
brium would be unstable. 

§ 31. Although, in the laminar systems of the prisms with a greater number 
of sides, the oblique films must be considerably curved, it appeared to me pro- 
bable that there would also be, lor each of these prisms, a limit of height beyond 
which the system would no longer comprise a central polygonal film, and that 
this limit would differ little from that pertaining to the pentagonal prism. To 
ascertain this, I tried first the hexagonal prism, with a frame whose height was 
also about 2h times the diameter of the circle which might be inscribed at the 
base. Now, to my great surprise, a central hexagonal film was still formed, 
though much smaller than with the frame of § 20 ; but the system had under- 
gone a modification which rendered possible the existence of this film. The 
poiuts of the solid lateral edges from which proceeded the oblique liquid edges 
(§ 26) were situated much further from the summits of the bases, so that the ar- 
rangement was very nearly such as if, in reality, the frame had been shortened. 
In this arrangement, therefore, the films proceeding from the sides of the two 
bases remain, to a sufficently great distance from the latter, adherent to the solid 
lateral edges, whence it follows that the assemblage should be considered as an 
imperfect laminar system, resulting from a conflict between the tendency of the 
films to occupy the lateral faces of the prism, and the kind of traction which 
these films undergo on the part of the hexagonal film which ascends among 
them. I say imperfect, because the films which proceed from all the sides of 
the same base are, iu the parts which remain attached to the lateral solid edges, 
separated from one another and rendered independent by these edges. 

§ 32. This becomes more evident Avith prisms the number of whose lateral 
faces exceeds six ; then the angle of two adjacent lateral faces being superior to 
120^, the films have more tendency to occupy all these faces, and the portions 
which remain attached to the lateral solid edges are, in effect, much more ex- 
tended. For example, witii an octagonal frame iu which the ratio between the 
height and the diameter of the circle inscribed at the base is nearly the same as 
in the above frames, the central octagonal film, instead of being small, is, on the 
contrary, very great, and the two oblique liquid edges proceeding from any one of its 
summits attach themselves to the corresponding solid lateral edge, at two points, 
of which the distance is but about the sixth of the length of that edge, and con- 
sequently a little less than the half of the diameter of the circle inscribed at the 
base. In this case, therefore, the films which proceed from two homologous 
sides of the bases in order to direct themselves towards the central octagonal 
film, only abandon the solid lateral edges on approaching the middle of the 



284 WITHDRAWN FROM THE ACTION OF GRAVITY. 

height of the frame, and until then they occupy, under a perceptibly plain form, 
the lateral faces of the prism. 

In the hexagonal frame of the preceding paragraph, the distance between the 
points where two liquid edges proceeding from one of the summits of the central 
film attach themselves to the same lateral solid edge is about double the diame- 
ter of the inscribed circle. In the octagonal frame, as we have just seen, it is 
somewhat smaller than the half of that diameter ; in a heptagonal frame it is, 
as might be expected, intermediate between those two values, and equal, nearly, 
to three-fourths of the same diameter. I have tried, also, a decagonal frame, 
and in this the distance in question is but the sixth of the diameter. 

The facts just recited would constitute an exception to our law, according to 
which one film ought to rest on each of the solid edges of the frame, since, reck- 
oning from either base to the points at which the oblique liquid edges arise, two 
films are attached to each of the lateral solid edges ; but, as I have shown, the 
laminar systems in question are imperfect systems. These facts are not owing 
to the thickness of the metallic threads : they still present themselves when the 
lateral edges of the frames are of the finest iron wire ; only, in this case, the 
separation of the points of attachment of the oblique liquid edges is a little 
greater. 

§ 33. Having afterwards employed an octagonal frame of which the height 
was a third of the diameter of the inscribed circle, I found that although, accord- 
ing to the value before given for the separation of these points of attachment, 
all of them should have been at the summits of the prism, it was not so : the 
points in question were still at a certain distance from the summits, and their 
separation was not more than the sixth of the diameter of the inscribed circle ; 
hence the octagonal film was still enlarged. The same effect was produced with 
a heptagonal prism of which the height was half the diameter of the inscribed 
circle — that is to say, less than the separation of the points of attachment as pre- 
viously estimated in regard to prisms of that number of sides. The same thing 
occurs in the hexagonal prism, since with a frame of this kind, (§ 26,) the height 
of which was but lA- of the diameter of the inscribed circle, the points of attach- 
ment of the oblique liquid edges were still found to be a small distance from the 
summits. 

§ 34. In order to discover the cause of these last facts, let us consider an 
octagonal or heptagonal prismatic frame sufficiently high for the films which 
proceed from the sides of the bases to occupy under a plane form considerable 
portions of the lateral faces. At the places where these films quit the faces in 
question to direct themselves towards the sides of the central polygonal film, 
they are necessarily convex towards the exterior in the direction of their length ; 
but in consequence of the necessity of a mean curvature null, it is requisite that 
at these same places they should be concave towards the exterior in the direction 
of their breadth. If, then, we conceive the frame to be traversed by two planes 
perpendicular to its axis and passing by the two series of points where arise, on 
the lateral solid edges, the oblique liquid edges, these two planes will cut the 
films by arcs concave towards the exterior, and if Ave imagine these arcs solidi- 
fied, the equilibrium of the system will not be disturbed. According to this, if 
we constructed a frame having for its height the separation of the points of 
attachment of the oblique liquid edges on the same lateral solid edge, and gave 
to the wires which form the sides of the bases the curvature of the above arcs, 
it is clear that the laminar system realized in this frame would have its oblique 
liquid edges proceeding exactly from the summits ; but with a frame of th-tt 
height or of a less height and the sides of whose bases are straight, the condi- 
tion relative to the transverse curvatures of the re-entering films, and conse- 
quently to the form of equilibrium of these films, can evidently not be sati?-fied 
unless the points of attachment of the oblique liquid edges hi placed at a certam 
distance from the summits on the lateral solid edges. 



THE FIGURES OF EQUILIBKIUM OF A LIQUID MASS 285 

§ 35. If, in the different systems whicli we have been studying, we compare 
the central polygonal films with one another, it will be seen that the curvature 
of their sides goes on increasing from the hexagonal film to the decagonal film, 
a circumstance which constitutes new facts to be added to those of § 20 in con- 
firmation of the law relative to the angles under which the liquid edges termi- 
nate at the same liquid point. The transverse curvature (§ 34) of the oblique 
films which are directed towards the sides of the central polygonal film being 
connected with the curvature of these sides, it must be less in the heptagonal 
prism than in the octagonal, and still less in the hexagonal ; it is because of the 
weakness of the curvature in question in the last prism, that this yields, when 
ii has not too much height, a laminar system almost perfect, with its hexagonal 
film. 

§ 36. In reflecting on the generation of laminar systems, the inquiry has 
struck me whether there might not be realized, at least in the hexagonal prism 
and with the frame of § 31, a system devoid of the central polygonal film by 
withdrawing the frame from the glyceric liquid in such manner that the axis of 
the prism should be horizontal instead of being vertical, as in the preceding ex- 
periments. I have consequently so arranged the fork as to be able to operate 
in that way, and with complete success : I have obtained, indeed, two different 
systems, according as the frame was Avithdrawn in such a way that tAvo lateral 
edges emerged at the same time from the liquid, or first one and then simultane- 
ously the two neighboring ones. These tAvo systems are of the same kind with 
that Avhich is realized in a pentagonal frame sufficiently high, (§ 30 ; ) that is to 
say, they are composed of two assemblages of oblique curved films connected 
with one another by other films directed in the length of the prism. The pro- 
jection of one of these assemblages on the plane of the base is represented in the 
Fig. 39 first mode by Fig, 39, in the second by Fig. 40. Fig. 40 
Nor is this all : to produce the first of these tAvo 
systems, it is necessary, when half of the frame 
has been AA'ithdrawn from the liquid, to finish the 
operation with very great sloAvness ; when we 
operate without this precaution, there is formed 
a third system of still another kind, a system of AA'hich, notAvithstanding its sim- 
plicity, it is quite difficult to give a clear idea either by description or drawing : 
it contains tAvo curA'^ed hexagonal films, resting, respectively, by one of their 
sides, on one of those of the bases, and directing themselves obliquely towards 
the inierior of the frame ; the other sides of these hexagons have, as usual, a 
concave curvature; the curved sides of each of these same hexagons are con- 
nected Avith the corresponding sides of the neighboring base and Avith the 
homologoiis sides of the other hexagon by curA'ed films; lastly, at the liquid 
edges Avhich unite these last films two by tAvo, terminate other films proceeding 
from the lateral edges of the frame. The sides of the bases on Avhich rest the 
tAvo hexagonal films pertain to the face of the prism which first emerged from 
the liquid. 

The heptagonal prism yields analogous results, Avith a frame having its 
dimensions in the same ratio ; only, at first, the three systems are imperfect, in 
the sense that, in the two former, the films which proceed from the sides of the 
bases remain, to a certain distance from the summits, adherent to the lateral 
solid edges, and that, in the third, the films Avhlch pass from the curved sides 
of one of the heptagonal films to the homologous sides of the other are attached, 
for the greatest part of their length, to the lateral solid edges, presenting, 
throughout this extent, a form decidedly plane ; moreover, by a new singularity 
the system furnished by the second method is unstable ; when barely formed, 
it undergoes a spontaneous modification : the two assemblages situated near the 
bases become elongated, at first slowly, then more and more rapidly, reach one 
another, and immediately there appears the imperfect system Avith the hepta- 






286 WITHDRAWN FROM THE ACTION OF GRAVITY. 

goual film at the middle. The projection on the plane of the base of one of 
the assemblages of the system due to the first method is repre- ^.^ 

rented by Fig. 41 ; the projection referable to the second method 
oould not be delineated, because the spontaneous modifications 
iindergone by the system prevent it from being distinctly ob- 
served.. The facts just described, joined to that stated at the 
end of § 28, show that with certain frames the results differ 
according to the manner in which these frames are withdrawn 
from the glyceric liquid. 

Thinking that the instability of the second system of the heptagonal frame 
might be occasioned by a want of sufiioient length in the frame, I caused 
another to be constructed in which the length was double the diameter of 
the inscribed circle ; but nothing was gained thereby, besides that the first two 
systems were produced with more difficulty, and it was the third Avhich was 
almost always obtained, the system, namely, which contains two oblique 
heptagonal films proceeding respectively from one of the sides of the bases. 
Indeed, with a frame still more elongated, it was only this last system which 
resulted. As regards the octagonal prism, whatever the ratio between its 
length and the diami ter of the inscribed circle, it yields no other than the im- 
perfect systems with the octagonal film in the middle, or with two obliqu.e oc- 
tagonal films, and again this last is the only one realized when the ratio is suf- 
ficiently great. 

§ 37. I have said (§ 16) that with the pyramid with square base which had 
served for the experiments of the second series, the laminar system always pre- 
sented a little irregularity. This consists in the fact that one or more of the 
four oblique liquid edges directed towards the summits of the base do not 
exactly terminate at those summits. I am now able to indicate the cause : if 
we inquire the height of a quadrangular pyramid in which two adjacent trian- 
gular faces make between them an angle of 120°, it will be found that this 
height is half the side of the base; when we employ, then, a frame having this 
height or a less one, it is clear that the films will simply occupy the four trian- 
gular faces, and this is verified by experiment, such a frame yields nothing else 
in whatever manner it be withdrawn from the liquid. Now, in the frame of the 
experiments of the second series, the length of the side of the base was 67™"^, 
and the height of the pyramid 50"^"^; this height, therefore, was but about 
three-fourths of the length of the side in question ; but, in such a pyramid, the 
films which proceed from the sides of the base must have but a feeble tendency 
to separate from the oblique solid edges, and it is to be inferred that they may 
continue to adhere to them for a certain extent. 

§ 38. It has just been seen that with a quadrangular pyramid whose height 
is at most equal to half the side of the base, none but plane films occupying 
the triangular faces are ever obtained ; but an assemblage of this kind does not 
constitute a laminar system, for all these films are rendered independent of one 
another by the intermediate solid edges. 

From all that has been stated since § 32 may evidently be deduced the fol- 
lowing conclusion: When, in a polyhedral frame, there is a continued and re- 
curring succession of identical adjacent faces forming between them angles greater 
than 120°, and all arranged after the same manner as the succession of lateral 
faces of a prism, heptagonal, octagonal, &c., or as that of the lateral faces of a 
pyramid, hexagonal, &c., that frame gives an imperfect laminar system — that is 
to say, one containing films which, through a portion of their extent, adhere 
at the same time to two solid edges ; or else it gives no system — that is to say, 
all the faces but one are simply occupied by plane films; I say but one, for, in 
this case, it is necessary that one face should remain open to allow the intro- 
duction of air ; in the quadrangular pyramid mentioned above, for instance, the 
face which remains open is the base. 



THE FIGURES OF EQUILIBRIUM OF A LIQUID MASS 287 

We may make an intcre.'^tinf? application of this principle. Among regular 
polyhedrons, it has been seen that the tetrahedron, the cube and the octahedron 
fl^rui^^h perfect laminar systems, and, in these three polyhedrons, the angle of 
tAvo adjacent faces is, in efi'cct, less than 1209; there remain the dodecahedron 
and the eikosahedron ; now, in the first of these the angle of two adjacent 
faces is but 116° and a fraction, and consequently less than 120°, while in the 
second it is 138° and a fraction ; it might be seen, therefore, that the dodecahe- 
dron would give, like the preceding regular polyhedrons, a perfect laminar sys- 
tem, but that such would not be the case with the eikosahedron, and this is cou- 
lirmtd by experiment; with the eikosahedron, in whatever manner the frame be 
withdrawn, none but plane films arc ever in nineteen of the faces, and the twen- 
tieth is void. As to the system of the dodecahedron, there would be difficulty 
in describing or drawing it. 

§ 39. In order to give more precision to these results, I would say : 1st. The 
frame of any polyhedron in which the dihedral angles are inferior to 120° 
gives a perfect laminar system ; such are the frames of the tetrahedron, the cube, 
the octohcdron. the dodecahedron, the prisms whose luimber of lateral faces is 
less than six, &c. There are, however, some rai"e exceptions, as that presented 
by the frame of a quadrangular pyramid whose height does not much exceed, 
the half of a side of the base. 2d. The frame of any polyhedron in which all 
the dihedral angles are superior to 120° gives a laminar system null. Examples: 
The frame of the regular eikosahedron, that of the assemblage of two hexagonal 
pyramids, or one containing a still greater number of sides, united by their bases, 
and such that at the edges of the commoir base the dihedral angles exceed 120°, 
&c. Nevertheless, when all the dihedral angles but a little exceed 120°, we ob- 
tain, in certain cases, a real laminar system ; this, for instance, occurs with the 
frame of the polyhedron formed by cutting down the summits of a cube by 
equilateral sections which join one another, so that there shall only be triangu- 
lar faces and square faces. But in this polyhedron all the dihedral angles are 
but about 125° ; moreover, the real and symmetric laminar system is produced 
with difficulty, and only when the frame h withdrawn by a triangular face ; 
when withdrawn by a square face it always yields a system null. 3d. A frame 
of which the dihedral angles are some inferior and other superior to 120°, but 
in which the faces which comprise between them these last angles are identical, 
disposed in the same manner, and form a continuous and recurring succession, 
gives an imperfect laminar system or a laminar system null : for instance, the 
system is imperfect in the frames of prisms the number of whose sides exceeds 
six, in that of a hexagonal pyramid when withdrawn from, the liquid by its 
summit, &c.; it is null in that of a quadrangular pyramid whose height is less than 
half the side of the base, in that of an hexagonal pyramid when withdrawn from the 
liquid by its base, &c. 4th. When 'the frame falls within neither of the pre- 
ceding categories, the laminar system is sometimes perfect, sometimes imperfect, 
sometimes null. For example, we have a perfect laminar system with the frame 
of a prism having for its base a lozenge of which the two obtuse angles exceed 
or equal 120° ; we have, as has been seen, an imperfect system with the frame 
of an hexagonal prism sufficiently tall when it is withdrawn with the axis ver- 
tical ; with a frame representing the assemblage of two pentagonal pyramids 
united by their bases and sufiiciently tall for the dihedral angles, in each of 
them, to be less than 120°, while the dihedial angles which have for edges 
those of the common base are greater than 120°, we have a system null when 
it is withdrawn with the axis vertical, and an imperfect system with the axis 
horizontal, &c. 

§ 40. Let us indicate some other curious modifications of our laminar sys- 
tems. In the first place, we know that in the system of the cubic frame (Fig. 
18) the central quadrangular lamina is parallel to two opposite fiices of the 
cube, but, because of the symmetry of the frame, it is evidently indifferent, as 



288 WITHDEAWN FROM THE ACTION OF GEAVITY. 

concerns eq^uilibrium, whether this parallelism exists in relation to one couple of 
faces or to another; the lamina may, therefore, equally occupy three positions, 
and it may readily be supposed that a slight cause suffices to decide its destina- 
tion. Thus, when the frame is withdrawn from the glyceric liquid, the lamina 
in question is found sometimes parallel to the anterior and posterior faces, some- 
times parallel to the faces of the right and left, and it sometimes happens that 
it is even placed horizontally. Further, it may be made to pass at will, and 
several times in succession, from one of these three positions to another ; for this 
purpose it is sufficient to blow very gently, on one of its edges by the face of 
the frame on the side of which this edge presents itself; the lamina is then seen 
to shrink in the direction of the blowing, to be reduced to a simple line, then to 
be reproduced in its new position. These last phenomena were pointed out to 
me by M. Van Eees, who was so obliging as to repeat my experiments in Hol- 
land. 

In the second place a laminar system may be forced to deviate from our law 
according to which it should not include any portion of air imprisoned on all 
sides by films, and then, in several frames, we obtain by proper management 
new and very pleasing results. The process, which was likewise indicated to 
me by M. Van Eees, consists in producing at first the ordinary system, then 
again immersing the inferior face of the frame to the extent of some millimetres, 
and withdrawing it anew; there is thus formed, in this face, a plane film which 
confines the air between it and the oblique films proceeding from the sides of 
this same face, and which, immediately climbing up between these oblique films, 
drives the portion of air before it, giving rise to a new system, which is symmet- 
rical when circumstances will permit. For instance, with the cubic frame, the 
new system, which is represented at Fig. 42, contains in its pjo-, 42 

middle a laminar cube attached by its edges to the films pro- 
ceeding from the solid edges ; only the edges, and consequently 
also the faces of this laminar cube are slightly convex, which is 
easily explained by the law relating to the angles formed by 
liquid edges with one another. So, too, with the frame of the 
tetrahedron, the new system contains in its midst a laminar 
tetrahedron with convex edges and faces. Analogous results 
are obtained with the frame of the pentagonal as Avell as that of j ^\, 
the hexagonal prism ; but that of the triangular prism gives a | 
non-symmetrical figure. That of the octahedron, if one of its j ^ 
faces be re-immersed parallel to the surface of the liquid and be \//^ 

withdrawn in the same way, furnishes a symmetrical result, 

in which, however, the central laminar octahedron has four faces triangular and 
the four others hexagonal. These systems are evidently mixed ones, in which 
a part of the films is of mean curvature null, while the other is of mean curva- 
ture finite and constant. Again : if, after having realized one of these mixed 
systems, we break one of the films which compose the central polyhedron, the 
whole is seen to return instantly, or in a very short time, to the ordinary system. 
For instance, when, in the mixed system of Fig. 42, we break off one of the 
films of the laminar cube, the system immediately resumes the arrangement of 
Fig. 28. This again is a curious transformation. For breaking these films it 
is best to use a point of filtering paper. 

In the third place, if, after having formed the ordinary system of the cube, 
(Fig. 28,) we break, by the means just indicated, the quadrangular lamina, the 
system immediately assumes a wholly different and equally regular arrangement ; 
the new system presents a void in the middle, but it may still be considered as 
perfect in the sense that films proceed from all the solid edges. So when, in the 
system of the quadrangular pyramid (Fig. 22) we break the superior lamina, a 
*iew and beautiful system is obtained, which in like manner is perfect, though 
also presenting a void in the middle. Finally, an analogous result is brought 




THE' FIGURES OF EQUILIBRIUM OF A LIQUID MASS. 289 

about, but with two vacancies, by breaking, in the system of the octahedron, 
(Fig. 26,) first the superior quadrilateral, next the film which then replaces the 
inferior quadrilateral. 

§ 41. We will terminate this series by a remark relative to the persistence of 
laminar systems. All those of the polyhedral frames are less enduring than the 
fifjures formed of a single film, such as spherical bubbles or figures of revolution, 
(oth series, §§14 and 15.) The explanation of this fact rests on the considerations 
stated in §§ 32 and 33 of the 2d series, in reference to laminar systems realized 
with oil in the interior of the alcoholic liquid — considerations which I shall here 
reproduce in a more complete manner. 

It will be remembered that a liquid film adhering to a metallic thread is 
necessarily joined to this, or rather to the liquid layer which moistens it, by a 
small mass with transverse curvatures strongly concave. The two surfaces of 
this small mass exert, therefore, a capillary pressure less than those which cor- 
respond to the two surfaces of the film, and consequently the excess of pressure 
of the latter must continually drive the liquid towards the former. Hence a new 
cause for the progressive attenuation of the film, and consequently of the destruc- 
tion of the figure. This pause exists in every laminar figure adherent to a thread 
or to wires ; but in the systems formed in the interior of polyhedral frames, there 
is added a cause of the same nature, and still more energetic. All these systems, 
in effect, contain liquid edges, which are united four by four in liquid points, and 
of which several are attached by their other extremity to solid threads ; now, on 
these edges, as well as at their extreme points, there are also, we recollect, small 
surfaces strongly concave. Those which pertain to the edges are, like those 
which prevail along the wires, only concave in one direction, and consequently 
iheir action in rendering the films thinner is of the same order ; but, at the points 
of junction of the liquid edges, and at the points where these edges terminate at 
tite wires, the small surfaces are concave in every direction, so that their capil- 
lary suction is about twice more strong, and hence the afflux of liquid towards 
these same points must be much greater. In the systems in question, the films 
must therefore become thin much more rapidly, and these systems endure for a 
shorter time, as experience evinces they do. There is no gradual augmentation 
of thickness, however, either in the liquid edges or in their poiuts of junction, 
but this is because the liquid, in proportion as it flows thither, is drawn by 
giavitation towards the base of the system. The persistence of each of these 
systems is, indeed, very variable, as may be readily conceived, for, in conse- 
quence of their complexity, slight accidental causes may act, sometimes more, 
sometimes less, to induce their destruction ; whence, of all of them, that which 
in general is longest maintained is the most simple, namely, that of the tetra- 
hedron. 

I shall recur anew to the laminarsystems in order to consider the theory under 
a more general point of view. In effect, as I have already shown, (§ 2 and note 
of § 8,) the liquid films which compose them may be assimilated to stretched 
membranes, and hence each system will be arranged in such a manner that the 
sum of the surfaces of all its films shall be a minimum. But I reserve this 
subject for another series. 

19 s 66 



REPORT ON THE TRANSACTIONS 

OP THE 

SOCIETY OF PHYSICS AND NATURAL HISTORY OF GENEVA, 

FROM JULY, 1865, TO JUNE, 1866. 



BY DOCTOR GOSSE, PKESIDENT. 



TRANSLATED FOR THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 



A rule of the society imposes on me the obligation of retracing the principal 
subjects which have occupied attention during the year just elapsed. In pro- 
ceeding to acquit myself of this official duty, I should state in advance that the 
large number of the communications made to the society in its eighteen sessions, 
while it evinces the scientific interest and constantly increasing zeal which have 
animated our periodical reunions, leaves me no option but to restrict this notice 
to the communications in which our members have taken the initiative. The 
review, however, will at least have the advantage of being conscientiously exact, 
since it will be based on accurate minutes kept by our worthy secretary, M. Al- 
exander Prevost. Without changing anything in the plan adopted in the pre- 
ceding years, I have simply added the date of each communication, with a view 
of securing to the several authors the priority which belongs to them. 

PHYSICAL SCIENCES. 

Experiinental and theoretical physics. — Professor Wartmann described (Sep- 
tember 7, 1865) a pneumatic meicurial jmynj), for the consti'uction of the tubes of 
Geissler, and of bai-ometers and instruments requiring as perfect a vacuum as pos- 
sible ; reminding us, at the same time, that the first practical apparatus designed 
for the production of this vacuum was due to Mr. "Welsh, who applied it in the 
atelier at Kew. In a recent number of his annals, M. Poggendorf has published 
a modification of Geissler's pump, which requires the use of an ordinary pump 
and of a great quantity of mercury. No detailed description of the instrument 
employed by the artist of Bonn having been given, M. Wartmann has constructed 
one, all the parts of which are stationary, and which requires but a moderate 
quantity of mercury. A siphon of wrought iron, with vertical branches, com- 
municating by an inferior tube provided with a cock, serves to fill completely with 
mercury the receiver which it is proposed to exhaust of air. Thn mercury 
reaches this receiver by injection from below upwards, and the action of heat 
sufiices to expel the vapor and air adhering to the walls. The tube, when full, is 
closed by an upper cock, emptied of mercury by the lower cock, and finally closed 
(after having received by means of a lateral tube any rarefied gas which it is to 
contain) by the fusion of its two tubular extremities with tbc blow-pipe. 

A memoir was read by the same member (October 5, IS65) on the maximum 
explosive distance between the sequent electrodes for the current induced by the 
opening of the circuit of Ruhmkorff''s apparatus. He has ascertained that the 
spark is longest when it passes between the positive exterior and the negative in- 
terior electrodes. There is here, therefore, an influence of the direction of the 



292 TRANSACTIONS OF THE SOCIETY OF 

discharge, which does not exist in the electric battery. The explanation of this 
singular fact is found in the difference of accumulation and tension of the elec- 
tricity at the two extremities of the inductive wire, and in the elevation of tem- 
perature of which the negative pole is the seat. 

M. Wartmann also communicated (November 16, 1865) some observations 
which he had made on the appearance, of the sjjark produced in a vacuum by 
currents of induction. This spark is elongated ; at the positive pole it some- 
times presents a reddish effluence, and at the negative pole it becomes violet. 
By employing for the electrode a cylinder of soft iron, the reddish effluence was 
environed by a violet aureole. With reference to these researches, he an- 
nounced (December 7, 1865,) that he had made use of a tube of glass, having 
two concentric chambers without communication with one another, and each 
enclosing traces of a gas different from the gas of the other. The positive 
electrode was in one of the chambers, the negative in the other. When, in this 
case, a powerful coil is employed, the course of the current may be reversed 
without changing the colored appearance at the two poles. M. Wartmann states 
that, contrary to what is affirmed by the manufaetvirers of the tubes of Geissler, 
he has found that in process of time the tubes, so far from improving, lose some- 
thing of their efficacy. He remarked also that after new researches he has 
seen no influence exerted by magnetism on the stripes of the spectrum, which is 
a confirmation of the conclusions he had advanced several years before. 

Professor Volpicelli, honorary member of the society, ( present at the meeting 
of September 7, 1865,) took occasion to observe that, although we have nu- 
merous investigations respecting the quantity of atmospheric electricity, the 
nature of that electricity has been little studied. He thinks that he has observed 
a diurnal qualitative period in the atmospheric electricity, a quotidian passage 
from positive to negative. He is of opinion that for this kind of researches it 
is necessary to return to the method of Franklin. 

Professor Marignac, in reference to the researches published in France on 
aeronautics by wmgs, maintains (October 5, 1865) that their authors have 
proceeded on entirely false data as regards the quantity of labor necessary in 
order that a machine for flying should sustain itself in the air. According to 
his calculations, in a machine of this sort, the ratio of the motive force to the 
weight raised varies as the square root of the section of the wings. The motive 
force should augment proportionally to the square of the weight raised, which is 
an unfavorable condition for the realization of such machines. From this it 
would result that, if all birds had the same form and structure, the largest 
would fly with least facility. 

M. Cellerier presented (November 2, 1865) a memoir on the measurement of 
gravity by means of the inversion pendulurh of BesseL He showed that, for 
this kind of observations, it is requisite to attain a relative exactness of at least 
one hundred-thousandth. Setting aside the errors pertaining to the measures of 
time, there are others which are found to act on the inversion pendulum, so that 
the alteration which results therefrom in the duration of the oscillations, accord- 
ing to the two suspensions necessary to this apparatus, is constantly in the same 
ratio, and the alteration which results in the two cases, from the defect of the 
measurement of distance of the points of suspension, is also in the same ratio 
By means of the two observations of duration, it is thus practicable to eliminate 
at once all these small alterations, and to obtain the duration reduced to a vac- 
uum. This result is oi great importance, because the accidental movements of 
the air have never been susceptible of being exactly appreciated. The apparatus 
of Bessel may thus lead to a rectification of the value assigned to gravitation. 

General Dufour (December 21, 1865) gave details of the direct levelling now 
in process of execution in Switzerland. The plate fixed in the stone of the 
Niton at Geneva will serve as the point of reference ; and of course there will 
be negative numbers, as BS,le is nearly 200 metres lower. Professor Planta- 



PHYSICS AND NATURAL HISTORY OF GENEVA. 293 

mour communicated (December 21, I860) certain lesulls arrived at in the ope- 
rations of this levelling, with the excellent instrument constructed at Aarau 
by Mr. Kern, and of which the level is particularly accurate. These operations, 
conducted in concert with the international geodetic commission, are connected 
with the arc of the meridian, the study of gravitation and that of the form of 
the terrestrial spheroid. In regions where the slopes are not very great, three 
or four kilometres are executed in a day, and the error scarcely transcends two 
or three millimetres to the kilometre. Thus far the levelling has been carried 
from Neuchatel to Chaumont and the Chasseral ; then by the valley of Ruz, 
the Chaux-de-Fonds and Locle to Morteau, from Nyon to Saint Cergues and 
the Rousses, and from Geneva to Morges and Neuchatel. The polygon of 
levels which connects Neuchatel witli the Chaux-deFonds and Saint Imier has 
a development of about sixty-one kilometres, and was closed with an error of 
only fourteen millimetres. In proceeding to connect the stone of Niton with 
the limnimetre on the quay, it was found that the column must have sunk more 
than five centimetres in eighteen months. This is owing to the subsidence of 
the ancient bed of the lake on which the new quay is constructed. The same 
member communicated to the society (March 15, 1866) the continuation of his 
researches on the determination of the value of gravitation by means of the 
pendulum of Re j) sold. He has succeeded in further eliminating some causes of 
error in considerably prolonging the duration of each experiment. Instead 
of observing only series of 500 oscillations during six or seven minutes, he has 
continued his observations for some forty minutes, which have given him nearly 
3,000 oscillations. These new observations have raised the value of gravitation 
at Geneva to 9 metres .80381, a result which may be considered as exact to 
nearly 590000- 

M. Perrot announced (January 4, 1866) that he had succeeded in causing to 
be constructed a furnace for melting substances such as gold and silver, heated 
by the ordinary lighting gas. M. Philippe Plaiitamour called the attention of 
the society (January 10, 1866) to a fact of interest in horology, observed by 
himself, namely, that in clocks with an anchor escapement, it is the pallet of steel 
which is worn by the wheel of brass, and that in watches, the pallet of ruby 
is worn by the teeth of the wheel made of steel. 

Professor de la Rive gave an account (March 1, 1866) of researches made by 
Professor Dufour of Lausanne, in behalf of the commission of the Helvetic 
Society charged with the study of terrestrial electric currents After explaining 
the difficulties met Avith in the observation of these currents, as well as the 
expedients adopted by M. Dufour to surmount them, M. de la Rive an- 
nounced that there is an electric current almost constantly passing from Berne 
to Lausanne, that is to say, from north to souih, though sometimes it exists in 
the inverse direction. M. Dufour has clearly shown that this is no thermo- 
electric current. The nearly constant existence of these currents, proceeding 
from the pole to the equator, connects itself with the continual production of 
the aurora borealis. When these phenomena augment in intensity and become 
visible in lower latitudes, the terrestrial currents alsu become more intense. The 
same member having afterwards (April 5, 1866) resumed an investigation of 
the phenomena which he had observed in plates of glass submitted to a simple 
discharge of Ruhmkorff's apparatus, was led to repeat the well known experi- 
ment of compressed laminae of glass, which exhibit, as long as the compression 
subsists, certain optical properties. In one of these experiments, the compres- 
sion having been too sudden, a splinter of glass was detached from the plate, 
which, although withdrawn from the compression, preserved the optical proper- 
ties which had been communicated to it. At the same sitting M. de la Rive 
gave some details on the experiments which he had made in seeking to explain 
the 'phenomenon of the vibratory movements dete) mined, in the conducting body, 
by the combined action of magnctis7n atid the discontinuous currents. He has 



294 TRANSACTIONS OF THE SOCIETY OF 

succeeded in demonstrating that conducting bodies transmit electricity by mo- 
lecular discharges, analogous to small voltaic arcs. The sound produced, when 
use is made of discontinuous currents and a powerful magnet, is not due to the 
vibration of the conducting body, but to the vibrations of the^olecules of that 
body, which are under the influence of the magnet ; hence, to reproduce the 
phenomenon, we may operate on metallic powders, or even on a column of 
mercury. 

Dr. Dor (April 5, 1866) drew attention to the sinking of the w-aters of 
the lake which occurred at the close of the winter, and which appears to have 
followed the removal of the dam of the Rhone at Geneva. This subsidence, 
however, is now general. It was perceived first at Nyon, then successively at 
Eolle, at Ouchy and at Vevay. Colonel Gautier, (May 3,) in reply to the ob- 
servation of M. Dor, said that he had compared the heights of the water marked 
on the limnimetres of Geneva and Vevey, during the months of February and 
March. He thinks, with General Dufour, that the eflFect of the dam on the 
level of the lake could be only very restricted. 

Meteorology. — Professor Gautier read a note (September 7, 1865) on the re- 
sults of meteorological observations made, in 1864, at seventy-six Swiss stations, 
under the relation of temperatures and quantities of water which have fallen. 
To this note is added a table of the thermometric mean, both annual and for the 
four seasons, as well as the annual quantities of rain and snow at those stations. 
A confirmation is hereby afforded of what Professor Plantamour had already 
observed, namely that at equal heights the temperature of the Swiss stations to 
the south of the great chain of the Alps is more elevated, by about three degrees 
Centigrade, than that of the stations to the north of the chain On the north 
side of the chain, at very proximate points, there are considerable inequaliiies of 
temperature. In the annual quantities of the water which falls there are also 
great differences between stations quite near one another and situated at nearly 
the same height. 

Dr. Lombard, applying the rules of' statistics to the influence of the seasons on 
the mortality, communicated (December 7, 1865) one of the results of his in- 
quiries, namely, that in the habitable temperate zone, cold augments the mor- 
tality, and more particularly that of infants in the two years which succeed birth. 
Thus there are more deaths in winter than summer. At Geneva, the month of 
February is, in this respect, the least, the month of September the most healthy. 
There is an exception, however, to the rule, wherever the intermittent fever 
(malaria) prevails, and the greatest mortality takes place during the hot weather. 
This exception is observed even in cold countries, such as Sweden and Iceland. 
Official documents from Australia, Chili, &c., evince the general rule to be the 
same in the austral hemisphere. 

Professor Plantamour (January 10, 1866) referred to the anomaly which 
was observed at Saint Bernard in the month of December last. During several 
consecutive days the temperature there was two degrees higher than at Geneva, 
and he asks whether the beds of fog which then covered the valleys might not 
have contributed to warm the mountains by reflecting the solar rays. 

Professor Favre communicated (February 1, 1866) details respecting the 
station at Saint Theodule, in Valais, where three guides have been installed since 
the 1st of August last, in order to make meteorological observations for a year. 
The present winter seems, so far, to have been there quite mild. There were 
days in December when the temperature was probably higher than at Geneva. 

Chemistry. — M. Louis Soret communicated (November, 2 and 16, 1865) the 
results at which he has arrived in his researches on the density of ozone, a sub- 
ject on which he had already published a memoir in the Archives of tlie Bibit- 
otheque Universelle of 1863. On this occasion he announced two new series of 
experiraenis. In the first, he occupies himself with the diffusion of ozone, and 
proves that this diffusion and the action of the ozone correspond to those of a 



PHYSICS AKD natural HISTORY OF GENEVA. 295 

gas more dense than oxygen In the second, directing his inquiries to the ex- 
istence of a body which really absorbs ozone, instead of separating it by absorbing 
but a part, as is the case with the iodide of potassium, he finds the essence of 
turpentine to be the most favorable substance for effecting this absorjttion. 
Ozonized oxygen, when treated with this essence, undergoes a very consider- 
able diminution of volume, being very nearly double the volume of oxygen ab- 
sorbed by the iodide of potassium. This would confirm the hypothesis that the 
molecule of ozone is composed of three atoms of oxygen, and that consequently 
the theoretical density of ozone is one and a half times that of oxygen. In the 
sequel he has found in the essence of cinnamon a substance not less favorable 
than the essence of turpentine for effecthig the absorption of ozone, and com 
paring the diminution of the ozonized gas, treated with these essences, with the 
augmentation of volume which the same gas undergoes through the action of 
heat, he has arrived with more exactness at the conclusion that, in effect, the 
density of ozone is one and a half that of oxygen. 

M. Delafontaine, (February 1, 1SG6,) after recalling the fact that his pre- 
vious researches have confirmed those of Mosander, on ythria, terbine, and er- 
biue, explained how it may have happened that MM. Bunsen and Boehr did not 
recognize these three earths. His last researches, while confirming his previous 
inquiries, and consequently also the results obtained by Mosander, have led him 
to see that MM. Bunsen and Boehr, who deny the existence of terbine, have, 
notwithstanding, had that substance in their hands, but that they have taken it 
or erbine. 

Professor Marignac (February 15, 1866) called the attention of chemists to 
'lie danger arising from the contact of the double salt of the fluoride of niobium 
ind potassium with the skin. This salt produces an alteration of the cutis, under 
he form of rubefactions and eruptions, accompanied with itching, which may 
ast without diminution for six months after the accident. 

Professor Wartmann (May 15, 1866) also drew the attention of the society 
.0 the dangers of explosion j^rescnted by the oxalate of silver. MM. Marignac 
and Perrot suggested that the explosions observed by M. Wartmann might be 
owing to the presence of organic substances mixed with the oxalate. 

NATURAL SCIENCES. 

Geology. — Professor Favre, member of the federal geological commission, pre- 
sented (January 10, 1866) a geological chart of the environs of Brugg, executed 
by M. Moesch, and which forms a part of those published by the commission. 

M. de Loriol read a memoir (March 15, 1866) on the uj)fer Jurassic deposits, 
and particularly those of the environs of Boulogne sur Mer. Both in England 
and France the marls composed of the Ostrea virgula are usually surmounted by 
masses of limestone, moie or less compact, sometimes coralline, which are covered 
in turn by deposits of Purbeck. These formations represent the Portlandian, 
properly &o called, and, in England, comprise a very special fauna, of which the 
Trigonia gibbosa is one of the characteristic fossils. At Boulogne are found 
strata analogous to those of the Purbeck beds, beneath which beds of limestone, 
sand, sometimes clay, form the equivalent of the English Portlandian, and in- 
clude several of its characteristic fossils, among others the Trigonia gibbosa. In 
proportion as we descend into the series of deposits, the species of the English 
portlandian are found to diminish in number, and those of the kimmeridian to 
increase. Immediately above the Ostrea virgula marls occurs a bed of limestone 
bearing the Ammonites gig as, (Zieten,) which terminates the series of strata 
that may be considered as the equivalent of the English Portlandian, or rather 
as the upper portion of the kimmeridian group, of which the Portland beds would 
constitute but a local fades. The inferior layers of this mass have been trav- 
ersed by the railroad from Boulogne to Calais, in which excavations have brought 



29 O TRANSACTIONS OF THE SOCIETY OF 

to light numerous fossils in a state of remarkable preservation, among others the 
Nerit07na sinuosa, (Morris,) which is very abundant. (See Memoir de la Soci^te 
de Phys. et d'Histoire Nat., tome xix, first part.) 

M. Ohaix communicated (April 5, 1866) his observations on ilie volcanic 
rock of the left hank of the Rhine, near Aridernach. This rock, which he has 
traversed and studied, extends over a surface of 7| leagues from north to south, 
by 3|- leagues from east to west. Thirty cones, rounded at the summit, are the 
craters of as many extinct volcanoes, rising to a mean level of 700 feet above 
the surrounding inhabited places, which last are 500 feet above the sea. The 
plains are formed of deep beds of cinders, lapilli and volcanic tufas. At more 
than 100 feet below these deposits a thick bed of basaltic lava is worked, near 
Niedermending, for mill-stones. In the centre of the volcanic region the lake 
of Laach, circular in its form, has a surface of 338 hectares, a depth of 177 feet, 
and a level of 847 feet above the sea, since the construction of a subterranean 
drain has reduced it by 18 feet. Besides this lake, thirty ancient craters may 
be counted, which have been convei'ted into lacustrian basins, more or less dried, 
and especially numerous in a second volcanic region lying more to the west than 
the first, and to the north of Treves. 

Botany. — M. Marc Micheli communicated (July 6, 1865) observations on the 
stamens in the fainily of the Ericacece. In some species of this family the sta- 
mens are provided with appendages of very variable forms ; these are sometimes 
long awns, sometimes membranaceous awns, sometimes simply small strumse. 
He has found that, when observed with the microscope, whatever their outward 
appearance, their internal structure is always the same. Under a layer of 
epidermis is seen a certain quantity of spiral cells. The tissue which these form 
is prolonged to a certain distance along the walls of the loculaments of the 
anther, 'i'he distribution of the appendages in the species and tribes of the 
family follows no rule. Two neighboring kinds or species may differ in this 
respect. 

Si. Duby, (October 15, 1865,) with reference to a champignon of the vine, 
on which he read a notice thirty-one years ago, said that he had never met with 
it since then, but that this year it is very abundant. MM. de Candolle and 
Muller are inclined to ascribe the development of its spores to the drought which 
has prevailed. M. Duby, in giving an account of the new researches of MM. 
Bary add Allie on the Mucedineae, recalled the fact that when the spores of the 
Mitcor mncedo are sown on different substances, completely different forms are 
seen to be developed in the resulting mouldiness, which have been classed here- 
tofore as different species. It is probable, therefore, that more than twenty 
species of Mucedineae should be suppressed. These same spores, sown in water, 
may even produce algae. In support of these observations. Professor de Can- 
dolle added that his father had already remarked, at Annonay, that the cham- 
pignons which were developed on old rags or waste scraps varied according to 
the origin of those articles. At Paris, the dealers in cheese had assured him that 
the mouldiness varied according to the part of France from which the cheese was 
brought. 

Dr. Muller (November 2, 1865) entered into some details on the inflorescence of 
the genus Dalecampia. This inflorescence is composed of a general involucrum 
formed by three pairs of decussated bracteae. The involucrum encloses flowers of 
two sexes. After having described with care the position of the female auu 
male flowers, M. Muller compares this inflorescence with that of the genus Eu- 
phorbia, the involucrum of which is quincuncial, and shows by diagrams that in 
the Euphorbias the relative position of the two sexes presents the contrary of 
what exists in the Dalecampias, the summit in the former being occupied by a 
female flower and not by male flowers. In comparing the male flower of the 
Dalecampia, which is polyandrous, and provided with a calyx and an articulated 
pedicle, with the male flowers of the Euphorbias, which are monandrous and 



PHYSICS AND NATURAL HISTORY OF GENEVA. 297 

destitute of a calyx, and taking account of the arrangement of the flower in 
the species Dactylostemon and ActinOf?temon, M. ^luller arrives at the conception 
that the part (situated above the articulation of the male flowers of the Euphor- 
bias should be regarded as an axis — that is to say, as a part of the articulated 
pedicle destitute of a calyx, or rather a prolongation of the receptacle bearing 
on its summit a sessile anther. There would then be nothing herein very 
paradoxical, and we should only have a monandrous flower, the filament of 
which would be as large as and sometimes larger than the pedicle. The same 
member announced (December 21, 1865) that in the genus Macaranga of the 
family of the EuphorbiaceiB he has met with individuals, which presented on the 
same flower stamens with three and with four loculaments. This would suppress 
the genus Pachystemon, which would no longer be distinguished by any char- 
acter from the genus Macaranga. 

In the last place, M. Muller (May 3, 1866) spoke of the secondary characters 
(f the aestivation of the ca^yx, which enable us, even long after ihe expansion of 
the flower, to recognize in what manner the lobes of the calyx or the sepals must 
have been disposed at the time of the budding. In tlie valvate aestivation, these 
lobes or sepals are all equidistant from the arch of the flower, and, before the 
expansion of the calyx, each lobe from the base to the summit touches its neigh- 
bor by the unattenuated edge of its borders. In the imbricated aestivation, on 
the contrary, the lobes are not equidistant from the centre, one of the two neigh- 
boring lobes being always more exterior than the other, and one of the borders 
covering the other. In the first case, the lobes are necessarily acuminated in 
order to their meeting at the summit of the calyx, and (if the calyx be straight) 
they have necessarily the same length, and the borders, touching one another 
face to face in the same plane, cannot but be entire. Hence M. Muller considers 
it est iblished that, in flowers which have already opened, each of the five follow- 
ing characters indicates an imbricated aestivation in the bad : 

1. Sepals, or lobes of the calyx, being alternately of an equal length, 

2. Sepals, or lobes of the calyx, being rounded at the summit. 

3. Sepals, or lobes of the calyx, being attenuate, membranous or scabrous on 
their borders. 

4 Sepals, or lobes of the calyx, being variously dentated, lobated, laciniated, 
or otherwise divided. 

5. Sepals, or lobes of the calyx, having marginal (particular) bristles, situated 
in the same plane with the lobes. 

M. Casimir de Candolle communicated to the society (January 4, 1866) a 
memoir on the Jamily of the Piperacece, which is to form part of the Prodromus. 
The author divides the family into two groups, the Piperomise and the Piperise, 
according to the organization of the stalk. In treating of the evolution of the 
leaves, and of their structure, he establishes that the so-termed stipules opposed 
to the leaves are prophylla; that the mode of evolution of the buds and the 
arrangement of the leaves explain the irregularity of the limbs. As to the 
nervation, it is in this family penninervate or digitinervate ; but these two sys- 
tems enter into the same type in the same manner as the intermediate nervations 
called multiplinervate. If, in efiect, sections be made in the leaf at different 
distances from the petiole, the lateral nervures are seen to proceed from the 
median nervure, and all the nervures are formed of the prolongation of the ex- 
ternal layers of the peripheral fasciculi of the boughs. On comparing the disti i- 
bution of the fasciculi in the bough and the leaf, certain analogies are perceived be- 
tween these two organs, which are commonly considered as very different. Tiie 
leaf offers analogues of the bark, of the ligneous system, and the medulla ; it often 
represents a flattened bough. The author concludes with a table of the classifi- 
cation, in which he materially reduces the number of species admitted oy some 
botanists. 

M. Edmond Boissier exhibited February 1, 1866) specimens of three kinds 



298 TEANSACTIONS OF THE SOCIETY OF 

of plants recently discovered, which are worthy of remark from having beeu 
found in regions very remote from those inhabited by all the other species of 
each family to which they pertain. In the first place, a Dioscorea pyrenaica, 
a European and Alpine species found in the Pyrenees ; then a Pelargonium, 
discovered in the chain of Taurus, while almost all the species come from the 
Cape, except a few species brought from New Holland ; lastly, M. Boissier has 
recently found a Pilostyle, or a plant of the prickly Astragalus, which was sent 
to him from the East by M. Hausknecht, botanist. 

Professor de Candolle stated (March 1, 1866) that, in studying the genus Bego- 
nia, he had recognized therein fifty- seven very natural sub-genera. As a general 
principle, it will be found that in proportion as the groups of a genus are better 
established and characterized those groups will be geographically circumscribed. 
The African species of the Begonia are generally very different from those of 
other equatorial regions, and particularly from those of Brazil. M. de Candolle 
therefore deems it probable that the deep cavity which separates America from 
Africa has existed from very remote geological epochs. 

Zoology. — Dr. Claparede communicated (July 6, 1865) the result of observa- 
tions which he had recently made on the Rotifers, with a view to explaining 
the mechanism of their alimentation. He shows that the cilia of the rotary organ 
do not directly contribute to the afflux of liquids towards the mouth ; they 
merely generate closed currents, which move in something of an ellipsis perpen- 
dicular to the plane of the vibratory organ and tangential to the ciliated border 
of that organ. These currents pass along a groove under the edge of the rotary 
organ and parallel to that edge. A part of the molecules, carried along by these 
closed currents, penetrate into the groove, and are thence conducted into the 
mouth by a row of secondary cilia. This second row of cilia presents, in effect, 
a contrary movement in the two rotary organs of the Rotifers, and in the two 
lobes of the single organ in the Melicertse. Among all those of the animals in 
question in which the rotary organ is double, as in the Rotifers, the apparent move- 
ment is identical in the two organs ; that is, the inverse of that of the hands of a 
watch. The mouth being situated between the two organs, it is impossible that 
both should convey the nutritive particles to the mouth, and yet direct observa- 
tion shows that the aliments are precipitated from right and left into the buccal 
orifice. The same contradiction presents itself in the Rotifers with a single 
organ, but bilobate, with the mouth under the groove ; as, for example, in the 
Melicertse. The movement, in fact, passes from the right to the left lobe, pre- 
serving the same direction. It is consequently directed towards the mouth in 
the first, and away from the mouth in the second ; nevertheless, the nutritive 
particles flow from the two sides into the mouth. 

The same member, f January 4, 1866,) after having noticed the latest researches 
of Mecznikoff and Leuckart on the transformations of the Nematoidse, gave a 
history of the different states of the Ascaris nigrovenosa. He entered also 
into details on the development of the ' Cucullant' of the pike and the perch, 
and on that of the ' Olulant' of the cat. 

M. Lunel read a memoir on the genus Brama, (see Mem. de la Societe de 
Phys. et d'Hist. Nat., t. xviii, p. 165,) a genus of fishes heretofore imper- 
fectly studied, and on a new species brought from the island of Cuba by H. de 
Saussure, to which the author has given the name of Brama Saussurei. In 
this interesting treatise, accompanied with plates and new anatomical details, 
the author especially sets forth the very remarkable differences presented by 
the scales in this group of fishes — differences which furnish excellent specific 
characters. 

M. Victor Fatio, (October 5, 1865,; in speaking of experiments which he had 
made to verify the kind of utility incident to the cavities of air in the bones of 
birds, stated that these cavities, though perforated, had not perceptibly affected 
the faculty of flying. 



PHYSICS AND NATURAL HISTORY OF GENEVA. 2L9 

The same member read a memoir (February 1, 1866) on tlie cJianges of 
coloration in the feathers of birds. After having studied the structure and 
development of feathers, the author analyzes the causes which may pro- 
duce a change of coloration in the same feather, without a moulting having 
taken place He seeks to explain the variety of colors and reflections by 
the play of the light falling ou parts differently developed. lie finds in 
autumn, in every feather, an apparent color and a latent color, and attributes 
the brilliant coloration of spring to the internal solution of pigmentary granules 
existing in the interior of the tissues. The humidity of the ambient air tends 
to swell the cortical substance of the feathers, at the same time that the fat of 
the body dissolves the latent pigment, which is diffused and colors the feather 
from the periphery to the centre. The extremities dry up and permit the por- 
tions which become gradually colored to appear. M. Fatio distinguishes three 
kinds of feathers — the ordinary, which contain a pigment of the color they affect 
when seen either by transparence or by incident light ; the optical feathers, which 
present reflections and contain a brown pigment ; lastly, the enamelled feathers, 
which, always blue, contain a blackish pigment. Now, in the ordinary and the 
enamelled feathers it is the barbs which are developed, while in the optical 
feathers it is the barbulcs which become swollen. The author attributes the 
luminous effects to a phenomenon of interference ; he compares to colored rings 
the lines alternately brilliant and obscure, exhibited in incident light by the 
segments and separating partitions of the optical barbules ; and he explains the 
blue color of the enamelled barbs by the passage, across a colored transparent 
layer, of rays i-eflected below by a dark layer tinted in a different manner. He 
remarks that it would be improper to confound the phenomena of which he has 
given this account either with those of the discoloration which is observed in 
some of the palmipeds — a discoloration accompanied by a discharge of the pig- 
ment, or with the external coloration produced by rubbing in certain birds, or 
with the discoloration which takes place in collections by the saponification of 
the fats. Finally, rejecting all idea of a renewal of life in the feather at the 
time of its second coloration, the author finds in his observations the explanation 
as well of albinism as more especially of local varieties. (See Mem. de la So- 
ciete de Phys et d'Hist. Nat , 2d partie, t. xviii, p. 249.) 

M. H. de Saussure presented to the society a work, which he has published 
in collaboration with M. Sichel, entitled Catalogus Specierum Generis Scoha. 
He took occasion to observe that among the Scolias the females sometimes 
vary much from one another, while the males change but little ; so that, in some 
kinds, it might be said that the females were of different species, while the males 
are all of one species. This may be explained by the fact that the males exist 
for little else but the accomplishment of the act of generation, while the females, 
coming into contact with the various incidents which beset them in the accom- 
plishment of their proper functions, undergo modifying effects from this circum- 
stance. M. Humbert made the remark that there are certain gi oups of crusta- 
ceans in which, on the contrary, it is the males which vary, tlie females remaining 
the same, a fact which pertains probably to the different part which the males 
play in the struggle for existence. Dr. ]\Iuller adverted to a circumstance of 
the same nature in regard to the male and female organs of flowers. M. Ed- 
ouard Pictet, our new colleague, presented to the society (January 4, 18G6j 
his Synopsis of the Neuropterce of Spain. 

Personnel. — We have the pain of recording the loss of three of our colleagues 
— that of M. Perrot, member emeritus ; of ]\l. Frederick Soret, member in ordi- 
nary ; and of Dr. Montague, honorary member. 

Louis Perrot was born June 30, 1785, of a French family which had settled at 
Neuchatel at the epoch of the Reformation. His taste for natural history was early 
developed by reading the Spectacle de la Nature of the Abbe PI ache, a book which, 
fifty years before, had produced so vivid an impression on the celebrated Bonnet. 



300 TRANSACTIONS OP THE SOCIETY OF 

So well did Perrot employ Lis time that, at the nge of eighteen, when he came to 
Geneva, he was welcomed and encoLiraged by most of the distinguished savanrs 
who were there, and eepecially by the blind philosopher, the venerable Huber. lie 
had the advantage in 1807 of accompanying de Candolle in a botanical explora- 
tion of the south of France and of the Pyrenees, and afterwards resided for some 
months in Paris, where the kind offices of his illustrious fellow-traveller plac-ed 
him in amicable relaiions with the savants of that capital. Returning to Neu- 
chatel at a later period, he became engaged in new pursuits : elected in 1816 a 
deputy of the grand council of the city, (called the forty,) he formed a part of 
several committees of public utility, and was named president of that of educa- 
tion. Thus brought into closer communication with men of that specialty, both 
at home and abroad, such as Pestalozzi and Father Girard, he took upon him 
self the direction of one of the schools of Neuchatel, in order to acquaint himself 
practically with the advantages of the system of mutual instruction, and to qual- 
ify teachers for the pursuit of that method. Botany was not the only branch 
of the natural sciences which he cultivated ; his researches on the fishes of the 
lakes of Neuchatel and Geneva, as well as of the Mediterranean in the vicinity 
of Nice, were of great interest ; nor less so, those on the habits of a great num- 
ber of insects, particularly bees, different kinds of wasps, and hornets. Yet In^ 
published nothing, contenting himself, when he had finished a memoir, with 
communicating it to his learned friends, to whom also he has bequeathed his 
herbals and other preparations. Yet, however modest and severe in regard to 
his own discoveries, it is probable that many of the observations of Perrot would 
have been entirely new had he published them at the time when they were 
made. We will cite but one, which, if confirmed, cannot fail to be of real in- 
terest. This relates to the Dytiscus, (Diiisque,) its larva, and its nymph. After 
describing the curious position which the latter adopts in the cavity which it 
digs in the clay, he describes the very singular effects produced when this nymph 
is held in the hand, and which consisted of all the physiological symptoms at- 
tending discharges of galvanism. After taking the proper precautions and 
repeating the experiment on persons not forewarned, he satisfied himself that, 
in this case, an electrical phenomenon really takes place. In 1830 he returned 
to reside permanently at Geneva, devoting the last years of his life to acts of 
charity and religion. And, assuredly, he was not now in his apprenticeship ; 
for as early as 1817 he had actively engaged in the organization of the succor 
extended to the poor, when a dearth was prevailing at Neuchatel and in some 
parts of Savoy, and, for several weeks, made experiments upon himself to ascet- 
tain the quantity of nourishment strictly necessary for the maintenance of health 
and the physical forces. He was twice mar; ied ; first, to a descendant, of the 
celebrated mechanician Di'oz ; and, secondly, to M'lle Rosalie de Pourtales, by 
whom he had four children, the youngest of whom, our colleague, M. Adolphe 
Perrot, much to the satisfaction of his father, has devoted himself to the cultiva- 
tion of physics. M. Perrot, having reached the advanced age of nearly eighty- 
four years, died somewhat suddenly June 9, 1866. 

Frederick Jacob Soret, was born May 13, 1795, at Saint Petersburg. His 
father, a distinguished painter in enamel, had established himself in that city, 
where he enjoyed a high degree of the imperial favor, but was induced, from 
considerations of health, to return in 1800 to his native home, Geneva. His 
eldest son, our late colleague, early evinced a love of study and a quick intelli- 
gence ; and, though destined for the church, gave himself with zeal to the natu- 
ral sciences, particularly mineralogy and geology. In 1816 he read to the 
society of naturalists a memoir on the molasse of the environs of Geneva, in 
which, in contradiction to the views of Saussure, who held these formations to 
be marine, he was the first to announce the existence of fresh water fossils. At 
the termination of his theological studies, he composed a thesis, whose subject 
marked his taste for natural history, and was sustained by an exegesis not less 
enlightened than rational. He maintained therein that the six days of creation 



PHYSICS AND NATURAL HISTORY OF GENEVA. 301 

-TTPre not periods of twenty four hours, but eras of great length. These views, 
which were then new, though now generally admitted, incurred violent 
opposition and much reproach on the part of some of the examiners. This cir- 
cumstance and his repugnance for the heated religious controversies of that 
epoch, led him to renounce the sacred ministry and devote himself wholly to 
scientific studies. In the autumn of 1819, he repaired to Paris and Avas received 
with warm interest by Brongniart, Bournon, Haiiy, and Biot. At this epoch 
he produced a work of great merit on " the relations of the form of crystals to 
th( ir optical properties," and on his return to Geneva published new memoirs 
on mineralogy and optics in the ^^/^t/io^/i^'^-Me Umver.se/Icihe Mem.de la Soc. de 
Phys. et d' Hist. NatvreUe, and the Bulletin del a Societe Philomathique. About 
1822, his scientific career was somewhat interrupted by his being chosen to direct 
the education of the hereditary grand duke of Saxe- Weimar, li was at Weimar 
that he enjoyed the advantage of meeting the illustrious Go3the, between whom 
and himself relations of intimacy were soon established. Goethe was not merely 
a great poet ; the natural sciences, and especially botany, wure among his favor- 
ite studies. He had thus learned to place a ju.-^t value on the savants whom our 
city so highly prized, and when I visited him in 1819 was never weary of 
extolling the labors of de Candolle and Vaucher. The arrival of the young and 
zealous naturahst of Geneva could not fail to confirm him in these favorable 
sentiments, and as he had just published a memoir on the Metamorphosis of plants, 
it was Soret who was charged with making a French translation of it. It will 
readily be conceived that, in an artistic and literary centre so brilliant as the 
court of Weimai% the decided taste of our compatriot for poetry and the fine 
arts received great development. The journals of the time and place contain, 
accordingly, a multitude of his productions in prose and verse, which attest his 
success as a writer and poet. Several excursions which he made into Russia 
and Italy with the prince, his pupil, confirmed these tendencies, and also led him 
to the study of archeology and numi.<matics, which he prosecuted with charac- 
teristic ardor to the end of his life. Hence we have more than thirty disserta- 
tions of his, not only on the coins of Geneva and its environs, but more espe- 
cially on those of the east, Byzantine, Caliphat, Sossanide, Cufic, Republished 
in the Mcmoires de la Societe d'Histoire et d'ArcJieologie de Genere, th(; Revues 
Numismatiques Beige et Frangaise, the Revue Archeolugique, and the Memoires 
de la Societe Imperiale d' Archeologie de Saint Petersbourg. In this branch 
of learning he soon acquired a high reputation, and the study of Arabic, which 
extended even to the publication of a dictionary of that language, contributed 
to the accuracy of his judgment on the origin and value of oriental coins, the 
classing and legends of which had been previously so obscure. More than 
twenty learned societies of foreign countries felt a just prule in numbering him 
among their associates ; but however numerous and flattering these distinctions, 
they made no impression on the modest and unassuming nature of Soret. (It 
would be beside the scope of this publication to give a detailed account of the 
various public offices in which he devoted his talents, experience, aud admira- 
ble judgment to the service of his country.) In 1836 he had married iM'lle 
Elisa Bertheau, and an only daughter, the worthy offspring of this union, con- 
tributed a charm and solace to their mutual existence. I'he health of our regretted 
colleague had been good to quite an advanced age, and had permitted him to 
enjoy in his retreat a life exempt from disquietude and devoted to study ; but 
his last years were overclouded at times by obstinate rheumatic neuralgia, with- 
out prejudice, however, to the serene equality of his character, or the vivacity 
of his intelligence and tastes. Shortly after a visit from his old pupil, the 
grand-duke of Weimar, an accidental exposure to cold brought on pneumonia, to 
Avhich malady he succumbed December 8, 1865. 

Jean Francois Montague' was born February 15, 1784, at Vaudoy, depart- 
ment of the Seineet-Marne. At the age of fourteen he took part in the expe- 
dition to Egypt as assistant helmsman, and his precocious intelligence as well 



302 TRANSACTIONS OF THE SOCIETY OF GENEVA. 

as his amiability of character soon procured him protectors and friends amnng 
the French savants who composed the Institute of Egypt. This circumstance 
decided his tastes and vocation. At his return to France he applied himself 
with zeal to medical studies, and in 1809 was nominated chief physician to 
the Neapolitan army, under the government of Murat. Thenceforth he joined 
to his public functions the study of the natural sciences, and particularly of 
botany. Cryptogamy, and especially the cellular plants, till then much neglected, 
offered to him a vast field of exploration. Frequent voyages and a widely ex- 
tended correspondence enabled him to publish in the Annales de Botanique and 
the Annales des Sciences Naturelles a great number of memoirs and articles on the 
cellular cryptogams, the lichens, the champignons, the algae, &c., of Europe, Amer- 
ica, and Oceanica He made also a remarkable application of his researches to the 
maladies of the silk-worm, the vine and the potato. In 1842 he was nominated an 
honorary member of our society,and in 1852 was elected amember of the Academy 
of Sciences at Paris, in place of Professor Achiile Richard. An indefatigable and 
conscientious laborer, Dr. Montague was one of those rare personages who have 
preserved to extreme age all their mental vigor, and who have honored humanity 
alike by the qualities of the intellect and the heart. He died at Paris, January 
5, 1866. 

Elections. — The precarious health of Professor Macaire, not peimitting him 
to attend our sessions regularly, had led him to decline the place of member in 
ordinary, but his colleagues, not wishing to be deprived of ihe benefits of his 
learning and experience, and remembering his distinguished services to thi: 
society, have prevailed on him to preserve the title of member emeritus. M 
Edouard Pictet has been elected member in ordinary, and MM, Bourcart, 
Laharpe, and Audeoud, as associates at large, so that the number of our emeriti 
is now two, that of members in ordinary forty, that of honorary members sixty- 
four, and that of associates at large thirty-nine. In the session of January, 
Professor Favre was proclaimed vice-president, and subsequently president for 
the ensuing year; M. Philippe Plantamour was named treasurer for a year, re- 
placing M. Favre ; Professor Marignac has been re-elected for three years as 
secretary charged with the correspondence ; lastly, MM. Wartmann and Hum- 
bert have been appointed members of the committee of publication. 

Permit me, in concluding, to recall the kind and delicate sentiments which I 
cannot but presume to have dictated my nomination to the presidency. Assuredly, 
I cannot attribute the honor conferred on me to any personal merit of mine, 
either as physicist or naturalist ; neither could my medical specialty have been 
an adequate title ; it is to be placed chiefly to the account of your good will in 
my behalf; but it must be regarded, also, as an acknowledgment which you 
desired to render to the memory of my venerable father, who, after having been 
one of the founders of the Society of Physics and Natural History, was one of the 
principal promoters of the Helvetic Society of the Natural Sciences, encouraged 
as he was by the support of his honorable colleagues of Geneva. It was, in 
<'ffect, by the aid of the members of our society and of the honored pastor, Wyt- 
tinbach, of Berne, that he succeeded in constituting, in 1815, the nomadic and 
fi aternal association of the Swiss naturalists, which has subsequently served as a 
model for those international scientific congresses which.have drawn more closely 
the bonds of union among the savants of Europe. The year 1865 was the 
fiftieth anniversary of the foundation, and by your presence ai Mornex, in the 
cradle of the Society, you have given a new sanction to that commemorative 
festival. 

It only remains for me to thank you, my L-herished and highly esteemed 
colleagues, for the zealous co-operpiJion which you have never ceased to accord 
to me as president, a co-operation which has rendered my task as easy as it was 
agreeable, and to express my ardent hope that our society may continue to be 
distinguished by its scientific zeal and the inappreciable harmony which has 
always prevailed among its members. 



NOTES ON THE TINNEH OR CHEPEWYAN INDIANS 
OF BRITISH AND RUSSIAN AMERICA. 



1. Tlie Eastern Tinneh, from a MS., by BERNARD R. Eoss, Esq., honorable Hudson's 
Bay Company. 

2. The Loucheux Indians, by William L. Hardisty, Esq., honorable Hudson's Bay Com- 
pany. 

3. The Kutchin tribes, by Strachan Jones, Esq., honorable Hudson's Bay Company. 



COMMUNICATED BY GEORGE GIBBS. 



The above tribes are embraced in the Athabascan group in ]\Ir. Gallatin's 
classification of the Indian tribes, (Trans. Am. Eth. Soc, vol. ii,) but that name, 
according to Mr. Ross, is a foreign word, applicable only to a particular locality. 
The name of Chepeivyan, given to the eastern tribes by most of the early writers, 
is merely a compound Cree word relating to dress. Sir John Richardson (Boat 
Voyage through Rupert's Land) adopts, and upon a more correct and philosophical 
principle, the name Tin-neh, which Mr. Ross says, though given in the vocabu- 
laries for "man," means rather "the people." It seems to be the appellation 
which each tribe applies to itself, other branches being distinguished by a prefix 
relating to locality, or some peculiarity of dress or appearance. Thus, while 
the Chepewyans call themselves Tin-neh, they call the " Slaves" Tess-cho-tin- 
neh, or the people of the Great river, (Mackenzie's.) 

This family, the most northern in America excepting the Eskimo, is, at the 
same time, the most widely distributed, its range extending from the shores of 
Hudson's bay to the Pacific, where it is represented on Cook's inlet by the Kenai 
and other allied tribes. Several tribes, known collectively as the Tahkali, 
Tacully, or Carriers, inhabit the upper waters of Eraser river, extending south 
to Fort Alexandria, in about latitude 52° 30'. Near the mouth of the Columbia 
two small bands, now nearly extinct, inhabited the wooded country on either side 
of the river, and others are located on the Unipqua, Rogue river, and the coast 
of southern Oregon, and on the Trinity or south fork of the Klamath, in northern 
California. Finally, the same race, as shown by affinity of language, appears in 
Arizona, New Mexico, and Chihuahua, under the names of Navajoes and Apaches. 
The papers mentioned at the head of this article, and which follow, all refer to 
the northern branches, but do not include those of 'he Pacific coast. 

Mr. Ross divides the northern portion of this great family into — 

I. The eastern or Tinneh tribes proper. 

II. The mountain tribes. 

III. The western, consisting, so far as British America is concerned, of the 
Tahkalis. 

IV. The northern, including all the Kutchin or Loucheux tribes. 

It is to ttie first of these that the portion of his own notes here given refers. 
Mr. Hardisty's and Mr. Jones's relate to the last. 



304 NOTES ON THE TINNEH OR CHEPEWYAN INDIANS 

1.— THE EASTERN TINNER— i2o5*. 

PHYSICAL CHARACTER. 

The eastern Tinneh are of middle stature, squarely and strongly built. 
Although tall men are not uncommon in some of the tribes, the extremes in 
either direction are far from numerous. The lowest adult whom I have seen was 
four feet four inches in height, and the tallest, six feet eix inches, the former a 
ir^laA'e, and the latter a Yellow Kuife. As a whole they are tolerably fleshy, and 
their weight may be averaged at 140 pounds. The crania of these people are 
very large, with a tolerably good facial angle, the forehead rather high, and the 
skull elongated towards the occiput in most cases. The females appear to have 
the largest heads, and those of both sexes are covered with a matted profusion 
of black, coarse, and straight hair. They are, generally, long-bodied, with short, 
stout limbs, but without any disproportion between the lengths of the upper and 
lower ones. The extremities are small and well-formed, the hands thick, with 
short, tapering fingers, offering a strong contrast to the narrow, long, and bony 
hands of the Crees, and resembling a good deal in this particular the Eskimo 
of the Arctic circle. The mosi distinguishing feature in the race is the breadth 
of their faces between the cheek bones ; this, with a high and rather narrow fore- 
head and elongated chin, gives them a pear-like appearance. They are possessi d 
of considerable bodily strength, of which, as the Hudson's Bay Company em- 
ploy them as boatmen, there are excellent opportunities of judging. They can 
carry 200 pounds, in a strap passed over the forehead, without difficulty, but they 
are, as a Avhole, considerably under the average of the European servants in en- 
durance and strength. 

There is no particular cast of features other than the large and high cheek 
bones. Large mouths are universal ; the teeth are white and regular, even to old 
age ; the chins are commonly pointed, but cleft ones are not unusual among the 
Yellow Knives; the usual description of noses are the snub and bottle, with a 
slight sprinkling of aquiline ; the ears, generally large, are placed well up towards 
the crown of the head ; sparse mustaches and beard are sometimes seen, but 
whiskers are unknown ; the eyes are mostly of a very dark brown hazel, varied 
with lighter, but never clear tints of the same color, and with black; they are 
often placed obliquely in the head, and although there is no general rule in the 
case, 1 think this form is oftener met Avith among the northern than among the 
more southern tribes. The prevailing complexion may, with propriety, be said 
to be of a dirty yellowish ochre tinge, ranging from a smoky brown to a tint as 
fair as that of many half-caste Europeans. I'he color of the skin is, in all cases, 
opaque, and its texture close and smooth. In a few instances I have seen the 
blood through the cheeks, giving a vermilion color to that part of the face. 
Cases of corpulency, though the rule in childhood, are very rare in old age. 
The women, if anything, are uglier than the men ; of smaller stature, and in 
old age become positively hideous. The mammae become pendulous and large, 
though they never, to my knowledge, attain the almost fabulous dimensions that 
[ have heard are not uncommon among the Carrier women. 

Nature certainly does more than art for the rearing of the children of these 
people. •' God tempers the wind to the shorn lamb," and causes them to thrive 
under numerous disadvantages. Immediately after birth, without washing, the 
infant is laid naked on a layer of moss in a bag made of leathei', and lined with 
hare skins. If it be summer, the latter are dispensed with. This bag is then 
securely laced, restraining the limbs in natural positions, and leaving the child 
freedom to move the head only. In this phase of its existence, it resembles 
strongly an Egyptian mummy. Cradles are never used ; but this machine, called 
a ''moss bag," is an excellent adjunct to the rearing of children up to a certain 
age, and has become almost, if not universally, adopted in the families of the 



OF BRITISH AND RUSSIAN AMERICA 305 

Hudson's Bay Company's employes The natives retain the use of the bag to 
a late period, say until the child passes a year, during which time it is never 
taken out except to change the moss. To this practice, continued to such an 
•age, I attribute the turned in toes and rather crooked legs of miny of these In- 
dians. A child is not weaned until another takes its place, if the mother has 
milk to give it, and it is no unusual thing for an Indian woman of these tribes 
to suckle a child three or four years old, even with a baby at her other breast 
at the time. Respecting the food of infants, the routine is as follows : If the 
mother has milk they suck so long as she yields it; otherwise, mashed fish, 
chewed dried meat, or any other nutritious substance that can be had from a not 
very extended variety is given. A curious and superstitious custom obtains 
among the Slave, Hare, and Dogrib tribes, of not cutting the nails of female in- 
fants till they are four years of age. Their reason for this is, that if they did so 
earlier the child would, when arrived at womanhood, turn out lazy, and be un- 
able to embroider well in porcupine quill work, an art which these Indians are 
very skilful in, and are justly proud of. Another extraordinary practice is their 
giving no nutriment to infants for the first four days after birth, in order, as they 
say, to render them capable of enduring starvation in after life, an accomplishment 
which they are very likely to stand often in need of. 

It is difficult to determine exactly the age of puberty. In boys it commences 
about twelve. Indeed, they endeavor, as soon as they can, to pay their addresses 
to the sex, and marry, generally, at from sixteen to twenty years of age. To 
fix the period for girls is still more difficult. They marry sometimes, but not 
often, at ten, and have their menses about thirteen. The women are capable of 
bearing children from fourteen to forty-five, a long portion of their lives, but in 
it very few infants are produced. Families on an average contain three children, 
including deaths, and ten is the greatest number I have seen. In that instance 
the natives found it so unusual that they called the father " Ilon-nen-na-be-ta," 
or the Father of Ten. Twins I have heard of but once. The proportion of 
births is rather in favor of females, a natural necessity, as it is the women among 
these tribes who have the shortest lease of life, and there is from various causes 
a much greater mortality among the girls than among the boys. The period of 
uterogestation is rather shorter than in Europeans, and seldom exceeds the nine 
months. Premature deliveries are very rare, and the women experience but 
little pain in child-birth, a few hours repose, after the occurrence, being sufficient 
to restore nature. 

The duration of life is, on an average, short. Many children die at an early 
age, and there are feAV instances of the great longevity that occurs not unfre- 
quently in more temperate climates. Karely does one of the Tinneh reach the 
" three score years and ten"' allotted to man, though an instance or two of passing 
this age has occurred within my own knowledge. A Slave woman died at Fort 
Simpson, in the autumn of 1861, who had already borne three children when 
Sir Alexander McKenzie, in 1789, descended the river bearing his name. Sup- 
posing that she had married at sixteen, and was confined once every three years, 
a high average for this people, she would have been ninety-seven years of age 
at the time of her death. For some years prior to her demise she was perfectly 
bed-ridden, and sadly neglected by her relatives, who evidently fancied that she 
bad troubled them long enough. She lay solitary and forsaken in a miserable 
camp, composed of a rude shelter and bed of pine brush, her only covering a 
tattered caribou-skin robe. Such was the malignity of her disposition, even in 
"articulo mortis," that she reviled at nearly every adult, and struck with a stick 
at all the children and dogs that passed by her den. 

The Tinneh are far from a healthy race. The causes of death proceed rather 

from weakness of constitution and hereditary taint than from epidemic diseases, 

though, when the latter do come, they make great havoc. Want of proper and 

regular nutriment and exposure in childhood in all probability undermine th-ir 

20 s 66 



306 NOTES ON THE TINNEH OR CHEPEWYAN INDIANS 

constitutions before tliey come of age. The most prevalent maladies are influ- 
enzas, coughs, bilious affections, dysentery, and indigestion, brought on by 
gluttony. Scrofulous cases are not uncommon, and all the tribes are more or 
less subject to a pseudo-syphilis of great virulence, and which is, so far as I can , 
learn, indigenous. Ophthalmic afiections are very common, chiefly among the 
Athabascan and English River Chepewyans. They probably have their origin 
in syphilis. There are a few instances of total blindness, produced by the snow 
glare on the great lakes in spring. Lice literally overrun all the natives. Fleas 
are unknown. The former insects are eaten as a species of relish, and are 
cracked in the teeth and nibbled, in order the better to enjoy the flavor, which 
the Indians represent as sweet. The tapeworm (ti3enia) is rather common. Like 
all hunter tribes these people have the senses of sight and hearing in perfection, 
while, owing to the dirtiness of their habits, that of smell is greatly blunted. 

RELIGIOUS OPINIONS. 

It is a task of no ordinary difficulty to arrive at correct conclusions respect- 
ing the mental characteristics and religious ideas of the eastern Tinneh. They 
are exceedingly averse to laying open their belief, such as it is, to strangers, 
and their real disposition is exhibited only in the camp, amidst the freedom of 
social intercourse. Deprived as I am of reference to the works of McKenzie 
and Hearne, I must, unaided by any gleams thrown on the subj.ect from the 
past, describe things as they exist, under the light of the present. 

These people seem to possess as cold and simple a theology as any known 
race of mankind. I am not, however, certain that such was the case seventy 
years ago. Many causes, all of which must have had more or less power, have 
combined to wean them from the faith of their ancestors. They are great imi- 
tators and respecters of more, civilized races, and, so far as I can judge of their 
idiosyncracy, would have been very likely to cast aside their old ideas and 
superstitions, if ridiculed by the whites, who, being fur traders and not mission- 
aries, were far less likely to impart to them the Christian truths instead. They 
would thus have gradually and imperceptibly moved downwards to the condition 
of having no religion Avhatsoever. 

It is now many years since the Roman Catholic priests first instructed the 
Beavers, Cariboo Eaters, Chepewyans, and Yellow Knives ; and although it is 
only four years since the Slave communities came under the direct influence of 
the gospel, still, from intercourse with the others, their superstitions had, in a 
good measure, either faded away or been imbued with a considerable quantity of the 
ideas derived from the sacred writ. When the Christian religion spreads, as it 
certainly will in a very short time, among the eastern, northern, and mountain 
Tinneh, their former faith will become a dream, and all traces of its existence 
be lost to the inquiring ethnologist. No heathen people, in my opinion, offer 
an easier field to the enterprise of missionaries. Their teaching will meet with 
but little opposition from the theological system or superstitions of the natives, and 
although I have great doubts if many will become sincere Christians at heart, 
they will at least submit willingly to the outward semblance of religion and 
conform to its ceremonies in a highly plausible manner. Their knowledge of 
a First Great Cause, the Maker and Ruler of the Universe, is very faint, yet I 
think it has always existed ; but as they have no idea of a future state of rewards 
and punishments, this credence, if they possess it, exercises neither power nor 
control over their actions, and appears to be of about as much use in their my- 
thological system as the Great Mogul was in modern times to the government 
of Hindoostan. Their religion is one of fear. They deprecate the wrath of 
demons, but no abstract notion of a single evil principle, antagonistic to and at 
war with the good one, appears to exist among them. The demons are, among 
tJie unsophisticated and unchristianized natives, many in number. They people 



OP BRITISH AND RUSSIAN AMERICA- 307 

the woods and streams, haunt desert and lonely localities, and moan among the 
caches of the dead. To propitiate these spirits, offerings are made of some 
trifling and invariably very worthless article. This is hung upon a bush or 
tree, and among the tributes of this kind, which I have seen, may be mentioned 
strips of cotton, worn-out shoes, tattered robes, pieces of leather, and old belts, 
whose perfectly worthless character showed plainly that though these Indians 
have a sneaking, superstitious fear, it is not sufficiently strong to overcome the 
avarice that forms so predominant a trait in their character. 

An inferior species of " totemism" obtains among them. Each hunter selects, 
as a species of f imiliar spirit, some animal, and invariably a carnivorous one. 
According to their custom, the man can then neither eat nor skin, and if avoid- 
able, not even kill the object of his choice. The taking of the " totem" is nor, 
so far as I am aware, the occasion of any religious ceremony, as is the case 
among some of the plain tribes. Pictures of various animals used in the olden 
day to be distributed among the natives by the ti-aders, each individual receiv- 
ing that of his totem. When a hunter had been unsuccessful he pulled this 
picture out of his medicine bag, laid it before him, and taking some lobacco 
from the same receptacle, paid adoration to the spirit by smoking and making it 
a speech. After this proceeding he returned with renewed ardor to the chase, 
and generally with success. 

Fatalism appears to be deeply seated in their minds. They usually accept 
such luck as is sent them, if not without murmuring, at least apathetically, and 
make but few struggles to combat adverse circumstances. 

There does not appear to be any regular order of priesthood. Any one who 
feels inclined to do so turns medicine man, but some are much more highly es- 
teemed than others, as possessing greater skill in conjuring away sickness and 
foretelling future events. The articles by which they affect to perform many 
remarkable and mysterious operations are very commonplace and trifling ; a 
flint, a piece of mica, a colored stone, or a bullet, being all equally efficacious 
mediums, through which to hold communication with their tutelary spirits. I 
have on several occasions, for amusement, tested the soothsaying powers of some 
of the most celebrated wizards, by requesting information as to the futuie arrival 
of boats or letters, and I can confidently state that if they guess correctly once 
in twenty times, it is as much as their supernatural powers are capable of effect- 
ing. As jugglers they hold a very inferior status, and do not approach, even 
in a remote degree, the really remarkable skill that many of the Algonquin tribes 
possess in this way. An idea of the powers of conjurors to kill Indians at a dis- 
tance, simply by the force of their spells, was formerly common to all the race, 
and still exists with unabated strength among the Kutchin tribes of the Youcon 
river, who put great faith yet in their medicine men, and pay them liberally for 
their services in seasons of danger or sickness. Additional facts regarding these 
" doctors" will be noted hereafter, when I proceed to explain the medical theories 
and practice of the nation. 

MORAL AND INTELLECTUAL CHARACTERISTICS. 

Few of the moral faculties are possessed in any remarkable degree by the east- 
ern Tinneh. They are tolerably honest, not bloodthirsty nor cruel ; but this is, 
I suppose, the extent, as they are confirmed liars, far from being chaste, and have 
but very indistinct perceptions of doing to others as they would be done by. 
Some tribes are more noted for honesty than others ; the Beavers and Chepe- 
wyans being at the top of the scale, the Slaves in the middle, and the Hares, 
Dogribs, and Yellow Knives at the bottom. The two first-named branches will 
compete in this respect with any European nation. No people in the world are 
more tenacious of what they possess themselves, or more willing to restore the 
property of others. On giving up what they may find to the owner, a de^aand 
for payment will sometimes be made. If the request be granted, well and good. 



.^08 NOTES ON THE TINNEH OR CHEPEWYAN INDIANS 

If not, it will make no difference afterwards as to the rectitude of their conduct 
on a similar occasion. In the payment of their debts, also, they evince a much 
greater sense of justice than the other tribes. They seldom or never dispute 
their accounts if they be correct, and endeavor to liquidate them to the utmost of 
their power. The Slaves are tolerably honest, but have great objections to clear 
off old debts, giving for a reason that the articles purchased are already worn 
out. The remaining tribes cannot be said to have a very keen perception of the 
rights of property, and are apt to reverse Prudhomme's celebrated dogma, " la 
propriete c'est le vol," into " le vol c'est la propriete." Among all the branches 
of the eastern division, there Is no law to punish theft further than restoration ; 
or if that cannot be had, purloining in return an article of similar or greater value, 
They do not, however, in general, steal much among themselves. The taking 
of provisions from " caches" in times of scarcity is reckoned perfectly lawful, but 
only the. direst extremity will cause them to plunder those of the Hudson's Bay 
Company. 

In the fabrication of false reports, and in the utterance of lies to serve their 
own interests, they are great adepts. The former is generally done from a wish 
to " cram," and is often rather ludicrous, but in the latter they evince a complete 
disregard for truth, and never appear in the least degree ashamed when taxed with 
it. There appears, indeed, to be a strong natural proneness to exaggeration in 
the minds of the eastern Tinneh, and a warped bias towards falsehood, even when 
a correct statement would equally serve their purpose. The smallest accident 
becomes in their narration magnified into truly horrific proportions, and on hear- 
ing of some terrible case of starvation or disaster from them, it is necessary to 
take it " grano salis," as I have on several occasions seen the murdered restored 
to life, and the starved to death jolly and fat. 

As a whole, the race under consideration is unwarlike. The Chepewyans, 
Beavers, and Yellow Knives are much braver than the remaining tribes. I have 
never known, in my long residence amung this people, of arms having been re- 
sorted to in conflict. In most cases their mode of personal combat is a species 
of wrestling, and consists in the opponents grasping each other's long hair. This 
is usually a very harmless way of settling disputes, as whoever is thrown loses; 
yet instances have occurred of necks having been dislocated in the tussle. 
Knives are almost invariably laid aside previous to the contest. Some of the 
Chepewyans box tolerably well, but this method of fighting does not seem to be 
generally approved of, nor is it much practiced. On examination of the subject 
closely, I am disposed to consider that this peaceful disposition proceeds more 
from timidity than from any actual disinclination to shed blood. These Indians, 
whether in want or not, will take the life of any animal, however useless to them, 
if they be able to do so, and that they can on occasion be sufficiently treacherous 
ai;d cruel is evinced by the massacre at St. John's, on Peace river, and at Fort 
Nelson, on the Liard river. It may not be out of place here to give a brief 
account of the latter catastrophe : 

In 1811 the post of Fort Nelson, on the Liard river, was in charge of a 
Mr. Henry, a well educated and clever man, but of a hasty temper and morose 
disposition. While equipping the Indians in the autumn, he had a violent dis- 
pute with one of the principal chiefs of the Bastard Beaver Indians resorting to 
the establishment, who departed greatly euragpd and muttering suppressed 
threats, which were little thought of at the time. In the winter a " courier" 
arrived at the fort to inforjn the whites that there were the carcasses of several 
moose deer lying at the camp ready to be hauled, and requested dog sleds to be 
sent for that purpose. Mr. Henry, never in the least suspecting any treachery, 
immediately despatched all the men and dogs that he could muster. On their 
way out they met an Indian, who told them that they had better turn back, as 
the wolverines had eaten all the meat. This information, as it turned out, was 
given from a friendly motive ; but fear of ulterior consequences to himself pre- 



OF BRITISH AND RUSSIAN AMERICA 309 

vented the man from speaking morp plainly The fort iiiLerpreter. who was of 
the party and who all along suspected something more than appeared upon the 
surface, took the precaution to carry his gun with him, and when they drew 
near to the path which led from the bed of the river to the top of the bank 
where the Indians were encamped he lingered a little behind. On the others 
mounting the ascent they were simultaneously shot down, at one discharge, by 
the natives who were in ambush awaiting them. When the interpreter heard the 
shots he was convinced of foul play ; he therefore turned and made for the fort 
as quickly as he could, pursued by the whole party of savages, whose aim was 
to prevent him from alaiming the establishment. The man was a famous run- 
ner, and despite the disadvantage of small tripping snow-shoes, which permitted 
him to sink more deeply than the Indians, who, on their large hunting snow- 
shoes, almost skimmed over the surface of the snow, he would have reached the 
houses before them had not the line that confined the show-shoe ou his foot 
broken. His enemies were too closely upon him to allow time for its repair, so, 
wishing to sell his life as deai-ly as possible, he levelled his gun at the nearest 
Indian, who evaded ihe shot by falling upon his face, whereupon the whole party 
made up and despatched him. After perpetrating this additional murder the 
band proceeded to the fort, which they reached at early dawn. A poor old 
Canadian was, without suspicion of evil, cutting fire-wood at the back gate. 
His brains were dashed out with their axes, and they entered the establishment, 
whose inhabitants, consisting, with one exception, of women and children, were 
buried in profound repose. They first opened Mr. Henry's room where he was 
asleep. The chief pushed him with the end of his gun to awaken him. He 
did so, and seeing numerous fiendish and stern faces around him, made a spring 
to reach a pair of pistols that were hanging over his head ; but before he could 
grasp them, he fell a bleeding corpse on the bosom of bis wife, who, in turn, 
became a helpless victim of the sanguinary and lustful revenge of the infuriated 
savages. Maddened by the blood, and demons in heart and act, they next pro- 
ceeded to wreak their vengeance on the innocent women and children, who ex- 
pired in agonies and under treatment too horrible to relate. The pillage of the 
stores was the next step, after which they departed, leaving the bodies of the 
dead unburied. No measures further than the abandonment of the fort for 
several years were taken by the Northwest Company, to whom the establish- 
ment belongecl, to punish the perpetrators of the atrocious deed, yet it is a 
curious fact that when I visited Fort Liards in 1849, but one of the actors sur- 
vived, all the others having met with violent deaths, either by accident or at 
the hands of other Indians. This man, who was at the time only a lad, con- 
fessed to have dashed the brains out of an infant, taking it by the heels and 
swinging it against the walls of the house. 

The fear of enemies, when in these peaceful times there are none to dread, is 
a remarkable trait of the timidity which so strongly influences the minds of the 
eastern Tinneh. It is, I conjecture, a traditional recollection of the days when 
the Knisteneaux or Crees made annual forays into the country of the Tinneh, 
pushing so far as Bear river in search of scalps and plunder, when the Yellow- 
Knives bullied the Slaves and Dogribs, and the Beavers M-arred with the 
Sickanies. A strange footprint, or any unusual sound in the forest, is quite 
sufficient to cause great excitement in the camp. At Fort Resolution I have on 
several occasions caused all the natives encamped around to flock for protection 
into the fort during the night by simply whistling, hidden in the bushes. My 
train of hauling dogs also, of a large breed and great hunters, would, in crashing 
through the branches in pursuit of an unfortunate hare, frighten some women 
out gathering berries, who would rush in frantic haste to the tents and fearfully 
relate a horrific account of some strange painted Indians whom (/ley had seen. 
It was my custom in the spring, during the wild fowl season, to sleep outside at 
some distance from the fort. Numerous were the cautions that I received from 



310 NOTES ON THE TINNEH OR CHEPEWYAN INDIANS 

the natives of my foolhardiness in doing so, and wlien they found that I escaped 
with impunity, they accounted for the circumstance to their own satisfaction by 
saying that 1 had bribed the " bad Indians to leave me alone." 

The race under consideration must be regarded as far from chaste, as conti- 
nence in a.\ unmarried female is scarcely considered a virtue, and its want brings 
no discredit on the individual. The intercourse between the sexes begins very 
soon. This is easily accounted for by their hearing and seeing so much that 
they should not at a very early age, which ripens their instincts at an earlier 
period than either their temperament <jr the climate of the country would warrant. 
Their dispositions are not amatory, and, in the case of the females, the love of 
gain is a much stronger incitement to immorality than any natural warmth of 
constitution. The divine and customary barriers between blood relations are not 
well observed, for, although it is not considered correct by general opinion, in- 
stances of men united to their mothers, their sisters, or their daughters, though 
not common, are far from rare. I have heard among them of two sons keeping 
their mother as a common wife, of another wedded to his daughter, and of several 
married to their sisters, while in cases of polygamy having two sisters to wife is 
very usual.. The married state, easily entered upon and involving few duties 
and responsibilities, is but a slender guarantee for the mutual faithfulness of the 
sexes. A Tinneh woman, however obedient she may be to her taskmaster as 
regards labor, considers herself quite at liberty to dispose of her personal favors 
as she may wish, which latitude is not at all agreed to by her husband, who, 
while claiming and exercising quite as much freedom for himself, severely pun- 
ishes his wife if she forgets in a single instance the allegiance due, in his opinion, 
to him alone. The custom of robbing one another of their wives, or of fighting 
for them, the facilities for divorce, and the inferior estimation in which women 
are held, combine to produce a very lax condition of the marriage ties, and to 
originate a low state of morality, which will doubtless improve gradually as the 
operating causes are neutralized or done away with by the exertions of mission- 
aries and advance of Christianity. 

The instinct of love of offspring, common to the lower animals, exists strongly 
among these people, but considerably modified by the selfishness which is so • 
conspicuous a feature in their character. In sickness they appear to sympathize 
strongly and to take great interest in the sufferer, so far as lamenting and crying 
goes; but their affection is seldom strong enough to induce them to do anything 
that would either tax their comforts much or require great exertion. On arriving 
at mature age the bond between relatives is easily broken, and even in adoles- 
cence often but scanty deference is paid to parents. The parental instinct, 
though far more strongly developed in the mother than in the father, would, I 
am confident, never call forth such traits of self-sacrifice, even to death, as have 
been exhibited many times among civilized and even barbarous nations. Male 
children are invariably more cherished and cared for than females. The latter 
are mere drudges, and obliged on all occasions to concede to their brothers ; and 
though female infanticide, formerly so prevalent, is now unknown, still in sea- 
sons of starvation or times of danger, girls invariably fall the first sacrifices to 
the exigencies of the case. The death of a child is apparently not niuch re- 
gretted, the mourning is short, and although in after years a mother will lament 
her offspring bitterly, there is far more of custom than reality in the exhibition, 
and it larely proceeds from the heart. The relation on the part of the children 
is still more soulless. Only in early age do they pay much attention to the 
commands of their parents, and the control of the latter is soon loosened. A 
curious circumstance is, that children are treated exactly as grown-up people, 
and talked to as such ; but as the character of all ages is decidedly childish, it 
is not to be wondered at if such a manner suits all parties equally well. 

As these people are obliged to lead a very wandering life, in order to procure 
food either by fishing or hunting, there can be, and in fact is, but litlle or no 



OF BRITISH AND RUSSIAN AMERICA. 311 

attachment to particular localities existing in their minds, though they have a 
strong bias towards their mode of life. The latter sentiment does not retain 
nearly so strong a hold on their dispositions as it does on most savage nations. 
Wedded to ancient manners and customs by much more slender ties than exist 
in the generality of Indian tribes, they easily fall into the habits of Europeans, 
and, in cases of servants engaged from among them by the Hudson's Bay Com- 
pany, willingly abandon the charms of freedom and the chase for the more regu- 
lar comforts and daily avocations of civilized life. I judge from this that if 
these tribes were properly instructed and located in a more favorable climate, 
they would become tolerable husbandmen, and without acquiring the ferocity 
of their congeners, the Navajoes, soon surpass them in agricultural skill and 
herdsmanship. 

2.— THE LOUCHEUX mBl A'i^S.—Hardistt/. 

The physical characteristics of the Loucheux nation are, with few exceptions, 
the same as those of the other aborigines of North America. The skin is com- 
monly of a sallow brown tint, in some cases what might be called a yellowish 
white ; the hair is long, black, and lank ; the beard scanty, with rare exceptions. 
They have black deep-set eyes, receding foreheads, high cheek bones, high, 
aquiline noses and large mouths with tumid lips. The eyes are of a dark 
hazel color, often approaching to black, frequently small and oblique, though I 
have noticed particular individuals with very large eyes, while iu others the 
eyes were remarkably small and these invariably oblique. 

The Loucheux language is a dialect of the Chepewyan, which it more closely 
resembles than the intervening dialects of the Hare Indians and Slaves, although 
a very slight intercourse enables the latter also to luiderstand the former suffi- 
ciently for the ordinary purposes of traffic. The Loucheux proper is spoken by 
the Lidians of Peel's river, thence traversiu'j;' the mountains westward down 
Rat river, the Tuk-kuth, (Rat Indians,) and Van-tah-koo-chin, it extends to the 
Tran-jik-koo-chin, Na-tsik-koo-chin, and Koo-chakoo-chin of the Youcon. All 
the tribes inhabiting the valley of the Youcon understand one another; a slight 
difference of accent being all that is perceptible in their respective dialects. 
The first material change occurs among the '' Gens de Fou" or Hun-koo-chin, 
(river people.) These make use of a great many Avords in common with the 
"Gens de Bois," who again understand the language of the "Mauvais Monde" 
of Francis lake, which is the common language of the Mauvais Monde of Fort 
Halkett, the Tliikanies, the Ah-bah-to-diu-ne (mountain Indians) and Nahau- 
nies of Forts Liard and Simpson. 

The Loucheux, though sunk in barbarism, are rather more intelligent than 
the other tribes composing the great Chepewyan nation, owing no doiabt to 
their intellectual faculties being more frequently brought into active play in 
their traffic and intercourse with other tribes. They are essentially a commercial 
people, and live by barter, supplying their wants by exchanging their beads, 
which form the circulating medium, for the peltries of the neighboring tribes, 
to whom they go on periodical trading visits. They hunt no furs, but are, 
neveitheless, good hunters, and invariably well supplied with provisions, unless 
when some very unfavorable circumstances may have occurred to prevent suc- 
cess in the chase. They are great talkers and very fond of displaying their 
eloquence. They are always making public harangues, and in the figurative 
language they use, their speeches are not ineloquent nor void of sense. Their 
delivery is good, but the effect is spoiled by their gradually raising their voices 
ro such a high pitch as to be compelled to stop before they come to the end of 
their speech from sheer want of breath. After a minute or two they begiu 
again in a lower key, and gradually raising their voices as they proceed and get 
excited ; they finally close their harangues with a most infernal screech, which 
is particularly disagreeable to a white man's ears. 



312 NOTES ON THE TINNEH OR CHEPEWYAN INDIANS 

The Loucheux generally live in large parties, each band headed by a chief 
and one or more medicine men. The latter, however, do not possess any secular 
power as chiefs, but they acquire an authority by shamanism to which even the 
chiefs themselves are subject. 

All the chiefs, medicine men, and those who possess rank acquired by prop- 
erty have two, three, or more wives, so that only few of the young men have 
wives, unless they can content themselves with some old cast-off widow, who, 
from ill health and the effects of bad treatment, is no longer able to perform 
heavy work. The consequence is that those who have wives are invariably 
jealous, and treat their women most brutally. It is one of the principal causes 
of the great falling off of the Loucheux nation. They ai-e not half the number 
they used to be. The other causes of the decrease in the population are female 
infanticide, and premature birth and very frequent miscarriages from over exer- 
tion, &c. Infanticide is caused by the misery of the women— at least, this is 
the only reason they give for it. When questioned on the subject, they in- 
variably give the same answer, " that they love their children, and destroy them 
only to save them from the hardships and misery to which their mothers are 
exposed in this life." To preserve them alive is equivalent to the unnatural 
crime of a mother wilfully placing her daughter in misery. When a young 
man has acquired the means, he purchases a young girl (perhaps an infant) 
from its mother, who has the power to dispose of her daughter to whom she 
pleases, though no doubt she will sometimes consult the wishes of her husband. 
The fathers and brothers have no voice in the matter by the laws of the tribe. 
The females are fewer than the men, especially when young, and might be con- 
sidered pretty, but they get proportionably coarse and ugly as they grow old, 
owing to hard labor and bad treatment. The very low position which they oc- 
cupy in the social scale, is a sign of the dej^th to which the Loucheux are still 
sunk in barbarism. The women are literally beasts of burden to their lords and 
masters. All the heavy work is performed by them. When an animal is 
killed, they carry the meat and skin on their backs to the camp, after which 
they have the additional labor of dressing the skin, cutting up the meat and 
drying it. They are the drawers of wood and water; all the household duties 
devolve upon them ; they have to keep up the fires, cook, &c., besides all the 
other work supposed to belong to the women, such as lacing the snow shoes for 
the family, making and mending their husband's and children's clothes, &c. In 
raising the camp, or travelling from one place to another, if, in winter, the 
woman hauls all the baggage, provisions, lodge poles, cooking utensils, with 
probably a couple of children on the top of all, besides an infant on the back, 
while the husband walks quietly on ahead with his gun, horn and shot-pouch, 
and empty hunting bag. In the summer the man uses a small light hunting 
canoe, requiring very little exertion to propel it through the water, while the 
poor woman is forced to struggle against the current in a large ill-made canoe, 
laden with all the baggage, straining every nerve to reach a particular place 
pointed out beforehand by her master as the intended camping ground. 

They are a lively, pleasant race, and have many rules and reguktions, wtiich 
are strictly adhered to both in public and private life. Their games and pastimes 
are more manly and rational than those of the dull, apathetic Slaves. They are 
passionately fond of dancing, wrestling, running, &c., in ail which sports the 
women, especially the younger, take a part. Their dances, which are accom- . 
panied by singing, are not void of harmony, as they keep time with their 
bodies, beating cadence with their feet, and moving themselves in grotesque 
though not unpleasant postures, which are apparently rather difficult to perform, 
as they perspire profusely. Their wrestling matches are commenced generally 
by two little boys. When one of them is thrown he retires and another, a little 
bigger, takes his place. As soon as he has thrown his opponent he rises up 
t^uickly and places himself in preparation for the next, who will make a sudden 



OF BRITISH AND RUSSIAN AMERICA. 313 

rush at him so as to get an advantageous hold before he is prepared and while 
still panting from' his previous exertion. Still if he be the stronger oi- more 
expert, he may knock down his second adversary, also the third or perhaps a 
fourth before he is thrown, wlien he retires and leaves the field to his conquei-or, 
who in his turn will continue to throw as many as he can, one after the other, 
until he, too, perhaps from exhaustion, is obliged to give way to a fresher or 
more vigorous opponent. The combatants rise in gradation until all the men 
have had their turn, and one, the last, remains alone on the ground with the 
honor of being the beet wrestler of the tribe. Afterwards two little girls begin 
in their turn and so on until all the women also have been thrown, except one 
who remains to claim the approbation of her male friends. In winter time they 
have a most amusing, though rather unsafe, game to those who are unacquainted 
with it. Four trees are selected, forming as nearly as possible a square of 
about thirty feet, to which strong leather cords are tied diagonally as tight as 
possible, about twenty feet from the ground. Where the cords cross a piece of 
leather about eight inches square is tied securely, on which each in his turn is 
required to stand. The least pressure sends the person up in the air perhaps a 
couple of feet, when he comes down the second time on the piece of leather. 
The cords being suddenly distended with his weight, the " contre coup " will 
shoot him up perpendicularly in the air, perhaps a dozen feet. Now is the time 
of danger, for if he is not expert, or has not been able to keep himself straight, 
he may come down a height of perhaps twenty or thirty feet on his head to the 
ground. The object is to see who will fall oftenest pei pendicularly on his feet 
on the little leather table without breaking his neck, I might say, or tumbling 
on one side to the ground to the amusement and uproarious laughter of the 
others. 

They are hospitable, but more, I think, because it was a custom of their fathers 
than from real generosity. After the first day, during which a guest is served 
with the best they have, and w^elcome, he may remain for months with them 
without rising above the salt, as it were, unless indeed he be a chief, or a man of 
consequence — that is, one with plenty of beads, or more especially a medicine 
man, but even then only for a time. Avarice is certain to get the better of 
their fears in the end. Each head of a family is expected to, and does, act the 
host for the whole band in his turn, day about. Whether they do so in rota- 
tion or how it is managed I was never able to find out. Whether invitations 
are sent, or the fact of any particular person putting all the kettles in camp in 
request apprizes the others which is to be the general eating-room of the day, 
I cannot say. At all events, all the males, from the oldest to the youngest, are 
drawn as if by magic to the point of general attraction. They continue falling 
in until the lodge is crammed ; the more the merrier ; the greater the pressure, 
the better the host is pleased. The favored or principal guest sits on the host's 
right hand, the next on his left, and so on downwards to the fourth or fifth on 
each side of him. The sixth downward are considered to be below the salt. 
The next rule observed is to divide or carve the meat properly according to 
rule. The best and fattest pieces, the titbits, are piled in a heap before the prin- 
cipal guest, who, after he has satisfied his hunger, sends the rest to his own 
lodge for his wife and children. The person on his left hand gets the next 
best pieces and sends what he leaves to his family, and so on downwards to 
the salt, below which the meat is distributed as it comes, without selection. 
Every fowl, every animal and part of an animal, must be divided or carved in a 
particular way, and if any person evince ignorance or inexpertness it excites the 
laughter and ridicule of the rest. One may be a principal guest with one host, 
and yet sit fourth or fifth or even below the salt with another. All goes by 
relationship or the estimation in which the person is held by the particular host 
for the time being. The host him.self does not eat on that day beyond taking 
one mouthful, tasting the meat before helping the head guest. Should he eat 



314 NOTES ON THE TINNEH OR CHEPEWYAN INDIANS 

anything more, he would be considered very mean and ridiculed accordingly. 
He may get his wife to. cook something for him after the guests have left, but 
not before, and it may be some time before they do leave, especially if there be 
anything to talk about, for after they have all eaten and drank, the host is 
obliged by rule to cut up tobacco and fill every pipe. The wife cuts the wood 
and cooks and collects all the pans. During the repast she sits at the dooi-, if 
she can find room, and outside if not, to hand to her husband whatever he m'ay 
ask for. 

This apparent abnegation of self is perceptible through all their regulations. 
For instance, unless he is alone a hunter cannot take and appropriate the meat 
of the animal he kills. Should he do so he would be considered mean. And 
this feeling is so strong that 1 could not induce them to abolish the custom 
during- the long time I remained among them, so much do they dread the 
idea of being thought mean with regard to anything eatable. When two good 
hunters go together, good and well — the one has as good a chance of getting 
meat as the other ; but when one is a bad hunter and the other a good one the 
former gets all the meat and the real hunter has nothing, and loses his ammu- 
nition into the bargain. 

Although hospitable to a certain extent as far as food is concerned, their nat- 
ural character is selfish. (But where will you find an Indian who is i)Ot?) 
They would not part with half a dozen common beads for nought, and are 
keenly alive to the ridicule attached to a bad bargainer. They will harangue 
and protest for days against what they consider (all honor and honesty apart, 
of course) an inadequate payment for what they give. They will have recourse 
to every subterfuge, even intimidation, to have the best of a bargain, and will do 
all in their power to fleece their opponent, and boast about it afterwards. 

The wife is expected to furnish the skins required for the clothing of the 
whole family, either by dressing the skins of the animals killed by her husband, 
or by purchase from others with her own heads — that is, her marriage portion, or 
what she may have had on her person or dress when she was married, and 
what she may have received from time to time from her husband for good con- 
duct, or, probably, when he happened to be in an unusually good and generous 
humor. She supplies all the beads or wampum required for ornamenting the 
dresses of all the family, including her own and even her husband's. His beads 
are the family fortune, the capital which cannot be touched except for purposes 
of traific or for payment of doctor's bills, &c. — that is, paying the medicine-man 
in time of sickness and for producing wind and favorable weather in times of 
scarcity. The first time a Loucheux saw a blacksmith's bellows he, of course, 
reported to his friends all particulars regarding the ironmaker's blowing machine. 
Some time after a medicine-man came to me secretly to inquire the truth, whether 
it would be possible for him to purchase, and the price of this wonderful wind- 
producing machine of the ironmaker's, and whether it could be turned to ac- 
count in making wind for hunting moose in cold weather, for, being a medicine- 
man, he was expected to make wind when it was required, and if he could only 
get this wonderful wind-maker, which he had heard so much about, his reputa- 
tion would be at its height, and his fortune made. 

The Loucheux have a number of legendary stories, but generally of such an 
obscene character as not to merit mention here. Even the story regarding 
caste, or the regulation which divides mankind (the people, Loucheux) into 
three different grades, is of a filthy character. They believe the heavens to be 
a walled canopy encircling the world. There are people above this canopy 
who in former times used to visit the earth, and on several occasions carried off 
women with them to the celestial regions. The women, however, it seems, did 
not find this paradise such a place of bliss as to wish to remain there. They 
regretted the pleasures of this lower world of ours, and after a time hit upon the 
expedient ol' boring the heavenly canopy. Then secretly collecting all the cords 



OF BRITISH AND RUSSIAN AMERICA 315 

they could find, they tied the end to a stone somewhat hirger than the orifice, 
and by this means lowered themselves to the earth. The story goes on to say 
that the cord was just long enough, but, unfortunately, they found themselves 
over a lake, and might have been drowned after all had it not happened that an 
Indian was passing in a canoe at the time, and saved them from their perilous 
situixtion. 

With reference to the story about caste it is difficult to arrive at a correct so- 
lution of the matter. The fact, I believe, is that they do not know themfeelves, 
for they give various accounts of the origin of the three great divisions of man- 
kind. Some say it was so from the beginning ; others that it originated when 
all fowls, animals, and fish were people — the fish were the Chitsak, the birds 
Tain-gecs-ah-tsah, and the animals Nat-singh ; some that it refers to the coun- 
try occupied by the three great nations who are supposed to have composed the 
whole family of man ; while the other, and, I think, most correct opinion, is that 
it refers to color, for the words are applicable. Chitsah refers to anything of a 
pale color — fair people ; Nat-singli, from ak-zingJi, black, dark — that is, dark 
people ; Tain-gees-ah-isah, neither fair nor dark, between the two, from tain- 
gees, the half, middle, and ah-tsah, brightish, from tsa, the sun, bright, glitter- 
ing, shining, &;c. Another thing, the country of the Na-tsik-koo-chin is called 
Nah-t'singh to this day, and it is the identical country which the Nat-singh oc 
cupied. The Na-tsik-koo-chin inhabit the high ridge of land between the You- 
con and the Arctic sea. They live entirely on the flesh of the reindeer, and are 
very dark-skinned compared with the Chit-sangh, who live a good deal on fish. 
All the elderly men fish the salmon and salmon trout during the summer, while 
the young men hunt the moose, and have regular white-fish fisheries every au- 
tumn besides. Some of the Chit-sangh are very fair, indeed, in some instances 
approaching to white. The Tain-gees-ah-tsa live on salmon trout and moose 
meat, and, taken as a whole, are neither so fair as the Chit-sangh nor so dark 
as the Nah-t'singh. They are half-and-half between the two. A Chit-sangh 
cannot, by their rules, marry a Chit-sangh, although the rule is set at naught 
occasionally ; but when it does take place the persons are ridiculed and laughed 
at. The man is said to have married his sister, even though she may be from 
another tribe and there be not the slightest connection by blood between them. 
The same way with the other two divisions. The children are of the same color 
as their mother. They receive caste from their mother; if a male Chit-sangh 
marry a Nah-tsingh woman the children are Nah-tsingh, and if a male Nah-tsingh 
marry a Chit-sangh woman the children are Chit-sangh, so that the divisions are 
always changing. As the fathers die out the country inhabited by the Chit- 
sangh becomes occupied by the Nah-tsingh, and so on vice versa. They are 
continually changing countries, as it were. Latterly, however, these rules are 
not so strictly observed or enforced as formerly, so that there is getting to be a 
complete amalgamation of the three great divisions, such a mixture that the 
difference of color is scarcely perceptible, and, no doubt, will soon disappear 
altogether, except what is produced by natural causes. The people who live on 
the flesh of the reindeer are always darker than those who live on fish, or on 
part fish and part flesh. One good thing proceeded from the above arrangement — 
it prevented war between two tribes who were naturally hostile. The ties or 
obligations of color or caste were stronger than those of blood or nationality. 
In war it was not tribe against tribe, but division against division, and as the 
children were never of the same caste as the father, the children would, of course, 
be against the father and the father against the children, part of one tribe 
against part of another, and part against itself, so that, as may be supposed, 
there would have been a pretty general confusion. This, however, was not 
likely to occur very often, as the worst of parents would have naturally preferred 
peace to war with his own children. 

As a rule slavery does not exist among the Loucheux, but the orphan and the 



316 NOTES ON THE TINNEH OR CHEPEWYAN INDIANS 

friendless are kept in servitude and treated so harshly as to be really little 
better than slaves, until such time as they get big enough and bold enough to 
assert their independence, when they are allowed to shift for themselves. 

Tbe Loucheux are very superstitious, and place implicit failh in the pre- 
tended incantations of their medicine-men, for whom they entertain great fear. 
When a death occurs they make loud expressions of grief. They accompany 
their lamentations with a song or dirge, in which they enumerate all the good 
qualities of the deceased, and when they have raised themselves to a tit of un- 
governable fury and excitement, a medicine-man will adroitly and imperceptibly 
raise the idea that the person's death was caused by a medicine-man of a neigh- 
boring tribe, or if a disinterested person do so for him, so much the better, as it 
draws away suspicion from himself. On such occasions the relatives of the 
deceased will immediately take a quantity of beads to the conjuror, and entreat 
him to find out who the hidden enemy really is, and the particular reason of the 
death of their friend, so that they in their turn may know in what direction to 
turn the shaft of i eveuge. When a person of consequence is sick, he will fre- 
quently receive a visit of condolence from a medicine- man of a neighboring tribe. 
As a mark of respect for the stranger he is invariably employed to recover the 
sick person, being of course well paid in beads for his trouble, to the exclusion 
and great displeasure of the native " doctor," who is sure to find some means to 
be revenged on the intruder for the slight he has received, and the loss he has 
sustained. On such occasions there is frequently a row, after, if not before, the 
departure of the visitor, for his opponent will secretly endeavor to make the 
impression that some medicine-man, or perhaps the favored guest himself is the 
real enemy of the sick person. When these insinuations and stories begin to 
take effect, the guest seizes the first favorable opportunity to take his departure, 
for he has a sufficient knowledge of the Loucheux human nature to be aware that 
in moments of great grief or excitement the slightest whim or chance may 
direct the popular fury towards himself If he gets off safe, he goes on his way 
rejoicing under a good load of beads and thinking good humoredly on the acqui- 
sition he has made to his wealth, and the power and influence it will give him 
among his own tribe, riches being the talisman with the Loucheux as well as 
others. The power of the medicine-men is very great, and they use every means 
they can to increase it by working on the fears and credulity of the people. 
Their influence exceeds even that of the chiefs. The power of the latter con- 
sists in the quantity of beads they possess — their wealth and the means it affords 
them to work ill to those to whom they maybe evil-disposed ; while the power 
of the medicine-man consists in the harm they believe he is able to do by sham- 
anism, should they happen to displease him in any way. It is when sickness 
prevails that the conjuror rules supreme; it is then that he fills his bead bags 
and increases his riches. Some near relative of the invalid, or, as often happens, 
some other pei son, to court popularity, will give him a quantity of beads to save 
the sick person or to ascertain his probable death or recovery. Of course the 
medicine-man, from the symptoms of the malady orfrom appearances, has already 
decided on the answer he is to give in the event of his being employed in the 
matter, and from long practice and observation he generally becomes an adept 
in predicting the final death or recovery; for even if the worst be foretold, he is 
perfectly aware that the friends of the sick person, so far from sparing their 
beads and losing all hope,, will, on the contrary, rather give even more to avert 
the doom. 

But the medicine-man has other ways of increasing his means. When prac- 
tice becomes low, and the people seem to forget that their prosperity, their 
health, and even their lives are in his hands, among other tricks he will probably 
take a pretended nap during the day, and when he awakens will inform those 
near him that such and such a person will, in his opinion, soon die. This he 
does in an ambiguous way, without particularly mentioning the person's name, 



OF BEITISH AND RUSSIAN AMERICA. 317 

but in such a manner that it is perfectly well understood by all who is referred 
to. As soon as it is dark, for they never conjure in the daytime unless in cases 
of great emergency, the doomed person goes to the doctor with his beads, makes 
a short speech, in which he extols the power and ability of the doctor, laments 
the fate which threatens himself, and finally presents him with his beads and 
entreats him to retard, or, if possible, prevent the doom which awaits him. The 
doctor replies that he is sorry to give him pain and would not wish to take his 
beads for nothing, that it is probably a mistake, and may even' refer to some 
other person. In his wanderings among his medicinal spirits, or familiars, he 
merely observed a shade which overhung a particular individual, still it may not 
indicate anything serious, but he will ascertain correctly during the night and 
let him know. In the mean time he retains the beads with a secret determina- 
tion that they shall not leave his possession in future. I have known several 
fall sick and actually die from the efifects of such stories on the imagination, 
while in other cases it was with the greatest difficulty I could remove the im- 
pression produced on their minds by these threatened calamities. The predic- 
tion invariably told most fearfully on the imagination, producing first low spirits, 
languor, then sickness, particularly in bilious subjects, and very frequently even 
death. When such things occur, the character and power of the cunning rogue 
has reached its height, and he is ever after looked upon with fear and respect, and 
consulted with confidence. No hunting excursion, no voyage, nothing, in fact, 
is undertaken without consulting him. Often have I known a party of Indians 
on the eve of starting to pass the winter or summer at some place fiivorable for 
hunting, when a medicine-man would suddenly set all their plans at naught by 
circulating the idea that starvation, sickness, death, or other misfortune awaited 
them in that particular diiection, Avhile he would cunningly recommend them 
some other place, which, from knowledge of the country, proximity to his own 
lands, or in some way or other was more suitable to his own views. 

When any of their relations die all their beads which have not been given to the 
medicine-man, or otherwise destroyed or disposed of t) show their grief, and the 
estimation in which the deceased was held, are either buried with the body 
or broken up, and the fragments sprinkled about the grave, or, what of late has 
been customary, they are kept to be finally distributed among the Indians 
at the dance for the dead, which takes place nine or twelve months after inter- 
ment, when their mourning and all outward tokens of grief are supposed to 
end. All the beads they have on their persons are also distributed in this way, 
or destroyed, together with their clothes. Their hair is cut close to the head 
or singed, which certainly gives them the appearance of miserable, grief-stricken 
wretches Sometimes too they will cut and lacerate their bodies with flints, or, 
as sometimes happens, they will, in a fit of revenge against fate, stab S(me poor, 
friendless person who may happen to be sojourning among them. Those who bury 
the dead receive a quantity of beads in payment, but fear of the lifeless body makes 
them averse to the office, and they generally endeavor to evade being selected 
to perform the service, owing to the restrictions imposed by their rules on all 
those who are selected to perform that duty. For instance, they must not eat 
fresh meat, unless the absence of every other kind of food rendei s it absolutely 
necessary to preserve life, and that only when it is cold. They must tear the 
meat with their teeth, the use of a knife being prohibited. They must drink 
out of a gourd, carried for the purpose, as they are not allowed to slake their 
thirst out of any drinking or cooking vessel. Those, too, who have handled a 
dead body wear peeled willow wands round the arras and neck, or cany peeled 
willow wands, about two feet long, in their hands. These are supposed to keep 
off infection, and to prevent any evil effect which might follow the handling of 
a deceased body. After a certain time subsequent to the death of a relative, 
the nearest of kin to the deceased, if a man of wealth, makes a general festival 
for the dead — the " dead dance" — when he distributes the rest of his beads — his 



318 NOTES ON THE TINNEH OR CHEPEWYAN INDIANS 

whole fortune — to liis countrymen, half of what each receives to be returned 
either in beads or furs after a year, to enable the person who makes the festival 
to begin the world afresh atler "he has completed his term of mourning. In the 
mean time he makes every exertion to collect a quantity of good meat. Invita- 
tions are sent to all the neighboring tribes ; a level piece of ground is fenced 
round, and the beads are strung and neatly hung up on painted cross poles 
within the enclosure. During this time, also, he composes the songs to be used 
on the occasion, in which all the good qualities of the deceased are enumerated, 
his abilities as a hunter are extolled, and any good or praiseworthy act he may 
have committed during life is held up as an example for the imitation of 
others. When the guests have assembled, early on the following morning, 
every one cleans and paints himself; fires are lighted within the enclosure ; 
several are set to cook, others to cut up tobacco, while the rest are dancing to 
the songs of the host and his wives, who, all the time, beats cadence on a piece of 
■ painted wood he holds in his hand. After they have had their repast and smoked 
their pipes the singing and dancing recommence, in which they all join. They then 
throw a bladder of grease among the crowd. The first who seizes hold of it runs 
away as fast as he can, pursued by all the rest. When he finds himself hard pushed 
he endeavors to secure at least a piece for himself, but this is not easy to do, as 
the grease is mixed up with sinew, which makes it very difficult to break, so he 
must either endeavor to outrun his pursuers or be content to part with it to the 
hungry multitude behind. By this time he is getting exhausted, and he tries 
to double on the others ; but, among such a number, it is hardly possible to 
escape, and he will either stop or throw the grease on one side, when there is. a 
general scrambling for it, accompanied by screams and a noise that is deafening. 
After going on in this way for a time they will quietly eat the grease, and then 
return to the enclosure, when a moose skin will probably be thrown among them 
The smartest will seize and run away with it in order to secure it for himself, 
doing as was done with the grease ; but this time every one that can catch hold 
of the skin, while one seizes a knife and cuts away between the hands, until 
each finds himself possessed only of what he was aLle to grasp. This goes on 
for several days, accompanied by wrestling, pushing on a strong pole, fifty or 
sixty against an equal number, racing, &c. After this the beads are distributed 
as before stated, the fence is pulled down, harangues are delivered, strong pro- 
fessions of eternal faith and good will are made, when each party takes its de- 
parture for its own land, and the term of mourning is at an end. 

Their knowledge of a Supreme Being, if they have any at all, is very limited. 
They know nothing of the soul. They say man has reason, acquired from 
education, imitation, or experience, which increases witli age ; for instance, they 
say a child has no education, no experience — that is, no reason ; or if he has, it is 
so weak or imperfect that he will crawl straight into the fire without the slightest 
fear of the c^onsequences. If he had a soul, which is part of the Great Spirit 
himself, he would be as wise when born as at any time of his life ; more so, in 
fact, for he is purer, having just come from his Maker. Neither would he require 
education or experience to guide him through life. They believe in a future state 
of rewards and punishments — that is, they believe they will be successful or 
unfortunate in the world to come according as they have acted well or ill in this ; 
that those who have been poor and miserable in this world, if they have com- 
mitted no heinous crimes, will be happy in the next; also, that the relative states 
of a wicked and prosperous man, and that of a poor, despised, ill-treated though 
innocent person, may be reversed hereafter ; that the two will change places, as 
it were. 

They have an imaginary person, a good angel, common to all, who is supposed 
to guard them from evil and supply their wants. This good angel is supplicated 
when they start on a hunting expedition, and is supposed to have the power of 
changing his shape and appearance. The story goes that an old woman found 



OF BRITISH AND RUSSIAN AMERICA. 319 

bim as a littlo boy, brought bim to her camp and took care of bim. Tbi~ bny 
made a pair of large buntiug snow-sboes for bimself, wbicb excited tae ridicule 
of tbe men at tbe idea, tbat a ragged, miserable little urchin like bim should 
pretend to require and use such a thing. The boy, however, paid no attention 
to their scoff^^, but continued to be kind and attentive to the old woman, bis 
grandmother, as be called her. His origin was unknown, and he could not give 
any account of where he bad come from. Altogether there was something 
mysterious about tbe child which kept him apart from the rest. Whenever 
they were in distress foi- want of food and their best hunters could kill nothing, 
some of them would fall on a fresh track, which, following up, would inA'ariably 
lead them to a freshly killed animal. From this spot the track and all vestige 
of tbe unknown hunter disappeared. This continued for some time uutil at length 
suspicion fell on the strange boy and bis large hunting snow-shoes. People 
wei-e set to watch him, and it was found that be was in the habit of leaving the 
camp secretly, when tbe others were asleep or otherwise (occupied, and returning 
again in tbe same mysterious manner. In this way he was discovered to bo 
tbe unknown hunter and their benefactor. This, however, did not improve bis 
condition with tbe others. He still continued to be the poor neglected and 
despised boy he was when they found him. After a time, in winter, tbe Indians 
killed a great number of deer. Tbe boy asked them for a piece of fat, wbicb 
in their arrogance they refused to give. That night be disappeared, and no 
vestige of him could be found but his clothes, which were discovered hanging 
on a tree. About a month after he again appeared among them as a grown-up 
man and well dressed. He told them that be bad gone to live in tbe moon, 
from Avhence he would continue to afford them his protection so long as they 
deserved it; that when they were in distress they were to supplicate bis aid, and 
he Avould send them relief, with this reservation, that in consequence of their 
having refused him a piece of fat when be asked them, all animals would in 
future be lean in winter, and fat only in summer. Since then be has continued 
to live in the moon, and is ever ready to answer the prayers of tbe hunter who 
demands bis aid before going on a bunting expedition. 

They believe in a future state of bliss, where they are to live forever, in tbe 
same bodies they occupied while here. The principal features of this paradise 
are pleasant buntiug grounds, where there is an eternal summer, fat animals, no 
sickness, no death, with exemption from all labor beyond preparing the meat of 
the animals they kill for food; but they have, notwithstanding, a great fear of 
death, and a particular aversion to being buried in the ground. Tbe idea of 
their bodies being destroyed by worms is horrible. For this reason they enclose 
the body in a neatly hollowed piece of wood, and secure it to two or more trees 
about six feet from the ground. A log about eight feet long is first split in two 
and each of the parts carefully hollowed out to the required size. The body ie 
then enclosed and tbe two pieces well lashed together preparatory to being 
finally secured, as before stated, to the trees. 

Tbe widow or widows of tbe deceased are obliged to remain near tbe bod;y 
for a year to protect it from animals, &c. When it is perfectly decayed, ana 
nothing but the bones remain, they are burned and the ashes collected and 
secured in a small box, which is bung up on the end of a painted pole, with a 
piece of painted wood fixed in the ground to mark the last resting-place of their 
depar;ed friend. After this the women are allowed to marry again. They 
begin to dress their hair, and put on beads and other ornaments to attract 
admirers, to go through tbe same observances again, should they a second time 
become widows. 

Great or heinous crimes with the Loucbeu.K are thieving — that is, wilful theft — 
and murder of tbe innocent by shamanism ; also lying ; yet they are much given 
to telling lies and speaking scandal. Employing wealth (beads) as a means of 
taking away life — that is, paying away beads to a medicineman to take away the 



320 NOTES ON THE TINNEH OR CHEPEWYAN INDIANS 

life of another, especially if he be innocent — is a great crime, but the killing of 
an enemy in a fair stand-up fight is honorable, although they seldom act up to 
their principles. A Loucheux prefers the safest side of valor, and hardly ever 
makes an attack unless he is pretty certain of coming off without harm. 

Formerly the young women had their chins tattooed in perpendicular lines 
from the corner of the mouth to the chin. Latterly the practice has been dis- 
continued. Until the introduction of fire-arms by the Company, they made use 
of bows and arrows in the chase, also of twisted deerskin thongs for snaring the 
deer and moose. Their arms of defence were the bow and arrow and the knife; 
their clothing is of dressed deerskin in the summer, and in winter the same with 
the hair on. They live in conical lodges, rather flat at the top, made of deer- 
skins dressed with the hair on, as well described in Sir John Richardson's work. 

3.— THE KUTOHIN TRIBES.— /owe*. 

The Kutchin may be said to inhabit the territory extending from the Mac 
kenzie, at the' mouth of Peel's river, latitude 68°, longitude 134°, to Norton's 
sound, living principally upon the banks of the Youcon and Porcupine rivers, 
though several of the tribes are situated fai; inland, many days' journey from 
either river. The Kutchin nation is very numerous, and is divided into about 
twenty-two different tribes, each speaking a dialect of the same language, and 
bearing a very great resemblance to each other in habits and customs. The 
dress is the same among all the tribes. According to their traditions they were 
created here, but their account is so intensely obscene that I fear to write it. 

Character . — In this they differ entirely from the Tinneh tribes of the Mac- 
kenzie, being generous, honest, hospitable, proud, high-spirited, and quick to re- 
venge an injury ; in short, bearing a much greater resemblance to the Plain tribes 
than any other of the northern Indians. They were once very numerous, but 
wars among themselves, disease, and famine have reduced their aggregate very 
much. One or two of the tribes are nearly extinct. 

Physical appearance. — The average height of the men is about five feet eight 
inches, though there are numbers six feet high. The women average five feet 
three inches, and are very strongly made. The color of the skin is dusky, the 
hair and eyes black. The men are completely destitute of beard, and both men 
and women are intensely ugly. 

Dress. — The men's summer dress consists of a shirt, pointed before and be- 
hind, the point nearly reaching to the knee: trousers, and shoes, both sewed to- 
gether, all made of dressed deer-skin without the hair. The shirt has a broad 
fringe of beads across the breast, and there is a broad band of beads down the 
front of the legs of the trousers. Both fringe and band were in former times 
made of Hiagua shells ( Dcnlalium) or of wooden beads made from willows. The 
dress of the women is nearly the same, differing only in the shirt reaching below 
the knee and not being pointed. The winter dress is the same, but is made of 
deer-skin, with the hair on and turned inside. Sometimes the shirt is made of 
muskrat or rabbit-skin, but in this case the hair is turned outwards. Mittens of 
deer or sheep skin, with the hair inside, and a cap of rabbit-skin, with the hair 
outside, complete the winter dress. The children are dressed in the same wa}', 
but have the mittens sewed to the shirt sleeves, instead of being fastened to a 
line passing over the neck as in the case of the men and women, and their hood 
js fastened to the shirt, and draws off and on like the hood of a Canadian capote. 
The men paint themselves with vermilion in lines across the face; they use also 
a kind of powder from the mountains exactly resembling black lead ; they pow- 
der their hair with goose down and a kind of red earth during their feasts. The 
women tattoo their chins with lines from the mouth to the throat by puncturing 
the skin and rubbing in the black powder mentioned before. The men always, 
and the women sometimes, bore a hole in the end of the nose, between the nos- 
trils, and insert an ornament into it. Among the Kutcha-Kutchin, Vondt-way- 



OF BRITISH AND RUSSIAN AMERICA. 



321 



Kutchiii, Nat-sit-Kutchin, this ornament consists of four Hiagua shells fastened 
together, but among the Hong-Kutchin and other tribes a metal ring is used 
sometimes instead. Making an incision in the under lip, or flattening the heads 
of infants, are quite unknown among them. 

Food. — This consists for tlie most part of venison or fish, though they eat the 
mountain sheep and goat, rabbits, partridges, wild fowl, and, in the winter, bears. 
The bears are not often eaten in summer, as their flesh is not good at that time. 
The country is full of game of all kinds ; moose abound in one part, deer iu 
another. 

Dwellings. — These are movable, and are thus constructed : deer skins are 
dressed with the hair on, and sewed together, forming two large rolls, which are 
stretched over a frame of bent poles. The lodge is nearly elliptical, about twelve 
or thirteen feet in diameter, and six feet high, very similar to a tea-cup turned 
bottom upwards. The door is about four feet high, and is simply a deer skin, 
fastened above and hanging down. The hole to allow the smoke to escape is 
about four feet in diameter. Snow is heaped up outside the edges of the lodge, 
and pine l)rash spread on the ground inside, the snow having been previously 
shovelled off with snow-shoes. The fire is made in the middle of the lodge, and 
one or more families, as the case may be, live on each side of tlie fire, every one 
having his or lier own particular place. 




Elevation ot lint. 



Ground plan of hnr. 




Kutchin 



In travelling, the women haul the lodges, poles, rolls, blankets, kettles, &c., 
upon wooden trunnions, something similar to the American sleigh, only the 
runners are turned up behind as well as before, thus being equally fitted to move 
backwards or for- 
wards. When the 
day 's journey is fin- 
ished, the men put 
up the hxiges ; but __ 
when a lodge has 
to be removed only 
a few yards, the 

women do it. When a number of lodges are placed together, no regular form of 
arrangement is observed, except that the doois are all turned one way, that is, to 
the leeward. They have no lodges or buildings set apart for public purposes^ 
though they certainly have an enclosed place for medicine dances, feasts, &c., 
for the dead. 

Arts. — There is little to say upon this head. They have no pottery ; and their 
only vessels were constructed of bark, wood, matting, or sheep horns. The birch 
bark vessels are usually square or oblong ; wooden ti'oughs are used as dishes, 
and wooden or horn spoons are large enough to hold a pint. Thiy are never 
made so small as a taljle-spoon. The kettles were, and still are made, by the 
liong-Kutchiu at least, of tamarack roots woven together. These kettles are 
very ne;it; hair and dyed porcuqine quills oje woven into them. The water la 

21 scr, 



322 



NOTES ON THE TINNEH OR CHEPEWYAN INDIANS 




»l^S2 




boiled by means of stones heated red hot and thrown into the kettle. The 
arrow-heads are of bone for wild fowl, or bone tipped with iron for moose or 
deer ; the bow is about five feet long, and that of the Hong-Kutchin is furnished 
with a small piece of wood, three inches long by one and a half broad and 
nearly one thick, which projects close to the part grasped by the hand. This 
piece catches the string and prevents it from striking the hand, for the bow is 
not bent much. There are no individuals whose trade it is to make spears, 
bows, or arrows. They make knives out of 8-inch or 10-inch files ; these are long 
and narrow, pointed and double edged; one side has a ridge running from the 
handle to the point, the other side is slightly hollowed. The blade and handle 
are made of the same piece of steel, and that part grasped by the hand is covered 
with dressed 
deer-skin, 
and the top 
of the han- 
dleis curved. 
They have 

no means of Kutchin knife. 

spinning. They weave kettles of tamarack roots, shirts of strips of rabbit- 
skin, and caps of the same material. For dyeing they use berries and a kind 
of grass growing in swamps. Foxes, martens, wolves, and wolverines are 
caught in traps; moose 
deer, lynxes, rabbits, 
and marmots are taken 
in snares. The general 
mode of killing moose 
is to stalk them. In 
the spring they some- 
times run them down 
■on snow-shoes, and in 
the fall, when the 
moose are rutting, the 
hunter provides him- 
self with a shoulder 
blade of the same ani- 
mal ; he then ap- 
jproaches the male as 
•close as possible, and 
rubs the bone against 
the trees. The moose 
charges at once, mis- 
taking the sound for 
that made by another 
naale rubbing his horns 
against the trees. 

They sometimes sur- 
round an island where 
the moose are known 

to be, and kill them ^ 

Marten trap. 

Note.— The marten trap is adjusted as shown in the figure. It consists of twolon^ sticks 
•of wood, the end of one held above the otlier by a short upright piece, the lower end of which 
rests on the end of a short horizontal twig carrying the bait. An enclosure of brush or twifjs 
is built up behind the bait, so that the only access to it is between the logs. When the bait 
is touched the horizontal twig is disturbed', tlie upright is thrown down, and the upper stick 
falls, crushing the animal. The short logs laid over'the stick serve (o se'-ure sufficient weight 
.to kilLthe marten. 




OF BRITISH AND RUSSIAN AMERICA. 



323 




when tliey run out on the ice or plunge into the river, though this mode i^ 
very seldom used, the general way being to stalk them 

Deer are chased on snow-shoes, the hunter loading and firing as he run?. 
They also make deer pounds, and kill numbers of deer at a time in them, with 
snares, of which there are several hundred in one pound. When there are a 
large number of Indians together, they sometimes surround a herd of deer. 

They kill fish in bars, terminating 
^ in a basket, by the side of which is a 

5^3;:, - stage upon which the fisherman stands. 

The hars and the basket are made 
of willows, bound together with ba- 
hiche, (deer parchment,) wetted and 
cut into lines, and then dried, and ait? 
fastened to poles driven into the bed 
of tlie river. The basket is nine or 
ten feet long, by about four broad ; 
the mouth reaches to the bottom, and 
the other end floats on the top of the 
Fishing stage and basket. ^ater. When the fish enter the 

mouth of the basket they are immediately pushed to the upper end of it with 
scoops, made like rackets for playing tennis ball, and then killed with a blow 
of a stick. When the basket gets inconveniently full, the fish are carried to the 
shore in a canoe. 

The Hong-Kutchin have another way, but this is only used for killing the 
big salmon, while the bar is for the smaller fish, such as pike, white fish, &c. 
The largest salmon weighs from forty-five to fifty pounds, the smaller from 
eighteen to twenty-five pounds. In salmon fishing a stage is erected on the 
bank of the river, and a man stationed upon it gives notice when a salmon 
is passing ; this he knows by the ripple it makes when ascending the strong cur- 
rent. The other men, each in the middle of his small canoe, push out, all 
provided with a bag at the end of a pole; the bag is about five leet deep, and 
has an oblong frame around its mouth three feet long by one broad; the pole is 
eight or nine feet long. The Indian paddles his canoe in front of the fish, and 
pushes his net to the bottom right in front of it ; as soon as the salmon enters 
the bag the man pulls it to the surface and stabs the fish with a kniW fastened 
to a pole about five feet long; he then either lifts the salmon into his canoe, or 
drags it ashore in the net. 

This mode of killing the salmon requires very great skill in the management 
of the small 
canoe, as will 
be -easily seen 
when I say 
that the canoe 
is flat-bot- 
tomed — is - 
about nine feet 
long and one 
broad, and the 
sides nearly 

straight up and down like a wall. The fish makes the water foam when it is 
firet hauled up ; if it strikes the canoe it will knock a hole in it; if it goes under 
the canoe it will upset it ; and as none of the Kutchin can swim, the conse- 
quences might be unpleasant. 

The Taitsick-Kutchin make nets similar to ours in shape, constructed of 
willows instead of twine. The outer bark is scraped off", and the inner taken off" 
and twisted into thread. The Youcon Indians do not make this kind of net, 




ivatchin boat. 



124 



NOTES ON THE TINNEH OR CHEPEWYAN INDIANS 



nor do they know how. Their implements for fishing are the bag for salmon, the 

bar for the fish in the small rivers, a hook and a spear. They also make a small 

fish out of bone and hang it upon a line in the water ; when the pike approach it 

they spear tbem. To make a spear a pole about nine feet long is taken, a 

spike driven into the elid, on each side of which is a flexible piece of bone 

or wood, with a nail or sharp piece of bone attached to it, both pieces of bone 

pointing inwards and upwards. When 

a fish is struck, the two jaws, if I may 

call them so, are forced open, and the 

spike driven into the back of the fish, 

and in jerking up the spear the two Fisli spear. 

nails or pieces of bone in the jaws either stick fast in the sides of the fish or 

meet under its belly, thus preventing it from falling off the spike. The hooks 

are niade and baited in the following manner : The pinion of a goose is taken, 

and the smaller bone is sharpened and fastened hook-shape to the larger ; a 

piece of fish-skin is cut the shape of a fish and sewed on 

the hook; that part representing the head is at the point of 

the hook; ihat representing the tail is where the bones have 

crossed each other ; a line is then knotted to the larger bone, 

and all is complete. Muskrats are taken in a scoop, after 

breaking the rat-house, and beaver with a gaff or net bag, 

after breaking into their houses, or shot swimming down the 

rivers. 

There are several kinds of berries eaten here, principally 
the cranberry and a kind of blue berry. They also eat a 
kind of root ; I do not know the botanical name for it, but it 
grows on sandy ground, is sweet, and when roasted tastes 
like parsnips. 

The Kutchin do not practice agriculture at all, and their 
only domestic animals are their dogs, miserable creatures 
no larger than foxes. They do not make any intoxicating 
drinks whatever, but are passionately fond of tobacco ; this 
they of course learned from the whites. Most of the Kutchins 
smoke in the same manner that we do, but some of the tribes 
use the same pipe as the Esquimaux, and swallow the smoke, 
has a wooden stem twelve inches long, slightly curved upwards; the bowl is well 
represented by the half of a reel for winding sewing cotton upon, and the hole 
in the pipe is about the same as 
that in the spool. A pipe is of 
this shape ; the bowl is made 
of metal; they do not smoke 
pure tobacco in it, but mix it 
with scrapings of willow. 

The Kutchin still retain the 
bow, which is of the same shape, 
through all the tribes, with the 




Baited fish hook. 
This kind of pipe 




Pipe. 



exception of the small guard in the Hong-Kutchin bow, mentioned before. The 
quiver is the same, and worn under the left arm ; it is furnished with two small 
loops to hold the bow, thus leaving the hunter both haudsfreeto use hisgun. The 
arrows are placed in the quiver with the notch downwards. The Kutchin are not 
expert Avilh the bow ; no doubt they Avere better shots before fire-arms were in- 
troduced among them. The bow is made of willow, and will not send an arrow, 
with sufficient force to kill a deer, more than from fifty to sixty yards. The 
arrows are made of pine. 

Trade. — The Kutcha-Kutcliin, among whom the fort is built, are traders ; 
they make very little for themselves, but buy from the other Indians; their 



OF BRITISH AND RUSSIAN AMERICA. 325 

Standard is called a nakieik, (bead clothing;) it consists of long strings of beads 
joined together at the distance of a foot ; the lines are seven feet long Tiie whole 
naki eik is equal to twenty-four made beaver, and one of the lines is one or 
more beaver-skins, according to the value of the beads. 

Before the arrival of the whites they had no religion, but they believed in a 
Supreme Being who would do good to them, but they knew of no evil spirit. 
One man told me that they had no devil at all before the whites came They have 
many superstitions. For instance, when the tire made a hissing noise they threw 
in some ftit, and asked to bo able to kill some animal ; if a crow passed they 
asked it for meat, and promised to share it with the crow. There are several 
rocks that they used to make offerings of beads to, in order that they might be 
able to kill some animal soon. 

Medicine — As they had no religion, so they had no priests, as with the 
southern Indians ; nor had they any sacred fire. They had, however, magi- 
cians, who could do wonderful things. If you were to believe their own story, 
they could make wind, prophesy, and when a storm of rain was coming, by 
putting their medicine bag on a pole at the side of the lodge ne.xt to the storm, 
they could m^ike the clouds turn and the rain fall in another place. 

The medicine man, whose profession it is, or, rather, who professes to cure 
all diseases whenever he pleases, is rather an important man among them. His 
treatment consists of singing barbarous songs over the sick person and perform- 
ing all kinds of antics ; he is also a magician ; in ftict, there is little or no differ- 
ence between them. They practice blood-letting also, ad libifum, and for every 
complaint, from a headache to a pain in the big toe. As for plants, they have 
no kno-wledge of them whatever, except one which they eat and another which 
is poison ; this last is never used for any purpose. 

Gorernment. — They are governed by the same chiefs in peace and in war. 
The authority of a chief is very limited, for the Indians are very unruly, and 
not at all disposed to submit to authority. The chiefs are chosen either on ac- 
count of their wisdom or courage, and not at all on account of birth. They 
have no insignia of office, and as for privileges they have all that they can take, and 
none that the others can withhold from them. The chiefs and old men are all 
who are entitled to speak in council, but any young man will not hesitate 
to get up and give his seniors the benefit of his wisdom. 

Law. — They have no law ; or, rather, the injured party takes the law in his own 
hand. For theft, little or no punishment is inflicted ; for adultery, the Avomau 
only is punished, being beaten and sometimes thrown off by her husband, and 
instances are not wanting of the woman being put to death ; for murder, tiie 
friends or relations of the murdered man revenge his death ; but if a medicine 
man is paid to kill him, and the man happens to die, the medicine man is inno- 
cent, and the one who paid him is the guilty one. 

Social It/e. — Slavery is practiced among them. Any poor creature who has 
no friends is made a slave. Female chastity is prized, but is nearly unknown. 
The treatment of women by their husbands is very bad ; they are, in fact, little 
better than slaves. If a Kutchin is eating he does not allow his wife to eat 
with him, but after he is sati.-^fied he throws her some meat just as he does to his 
dogs. She cuts and hauls his fire-wood ; she hauls his lodge, kettles, and 
property when the camp is moved ; she hauls the meat to the camp in winter 
and carries it iu summer. During the warm weather she dries the meat, carries 
him water, makes his clothes, laces his snow-shoes, and, indeed, does all the 
drudgery of the camps ; but in travdling the men do a little — just a little; 
they go before, making a track, and stop at such a place as they think the 
women will be able to reach about nightfall. They choose a level "place just 
large enough for a lodge, scrape off' the snow, line it with pine brush, cut some 
fe\v armfuls of dry Avillows, and the women put up the lodge when they arrive. 



326 NOTES ON THE TINNEH OR CHEPEWYAN INDIANS 

The men always cook. If a wife will not obey her husband she gets a good 
beating. Children are generally well treated by their parents. 

They have no regular festivals, but when a man of consequence dies his 
friends make a dance, as the whites call it, m his honor. A space some twenty 
yards square is railed in, a fire lighted in the middle, and various games are 
played, such as putting a pole across the fire, one party trying to push the 
other to one end of the enclosure, or one takes a dressed deer-skin and runs 
off with it ; the fellow, if he is nearly caught, drops the skin, when another 
takes it and is chased by all the rest in his turn. At last the deer-skin is seized 
by as many as can find room to take hold ; it is then cut up, each retaining the 
piece in his hand. Sometimes bladders of grease are used instead of deer-skin. 
Now and then they all gather in the enclosure, and, standing round the fence, 
sing mournful songs and make speeches. This continues for ten or twelve days, 
when the fence is thrown down, and the beads and other things provided by 
the person making the dance are divided, each person receiving a present in 
proportion to his rank ; but this present is not entirely gratis, for some months 
afterwards the giver will come and say : " I gave you thirty ' made ' beaver ; 
pay me fifteen and k-eep fifteen ;' which has to be done, of course. The same 
way when a person dies, if he is a great man among them. Four men make 
his grave, or, rather, either burn him or hang him up in a coffin. These four 
are paid as follows : The first gets thirty, and pays ten made beaver ; the next 
twenty-five, and pays ten ; the next fifteen, and pays fi^e ; the next twelve, 
and pays • three. The coffin, when the body was to be buried that way, was 
supported upon a stage, with a knife, bow and arrows, a flint fastened to a stick, 
a stone to strike it on to make fire, and a piece of the fungus that grows on a 
birch tree for tinder, with some touch-wood also. The body was dressed in the 
best they had and painted, and was placed in the coffin with the various things 
mentioned above. The men who made the grave or buried the corpse lived 
apart for two moons. A man was put on the stage if he was well liked ; and 
they used to burn them to keep the maggots from eating the corpse. 

There is no ceremony observed at marriage or birth. A man will sometimes 
take a small girl ten or twelve years old for his wife ; but this is merely a pre- 
caution to secure her, as she cannot live with him as a wife at that age. A man 
may take a wife of the same band to which he himself belongs ; but if he take 
a wife from another tribe, the children belong to the tribe of their mother. 

A woman must live apart from her husband during her monthly terms. They 
are in the same lodge, but a partition made of willow is between them. A 
young woman must live entirely apart in a separate lodge during her first two 
terms, or she will spoil the hunting of the men. All the Kutchin are divided 
into three castes, called, respectively, Tchit-che-ah, Tenge-rat-sey, and Nat- 
sah-i. It used to be customary for a man belonging to one of these castes to 
take a wife from one of the others, but this has fallen into disuse. 

With the Kutchin the father takes his name from his son or daugliter, not 
the son from his father, as with us. The father's name is formed by the addi- 
tion of the word tee to the end of the son's name ; for instance', Que-ech-et may 
have a son, and call him Sah-neu. The father is now called Sah-neu-tee, and 
his former name of Que-ech-et is forgotten. They sometimes change a woman's 
name from Toat-li to Sah-neu-behan, or Sah-neu's mother. 

War. — The murderers — it would be ridiculous to call them warriors — array 
themselves in paint and put three eagle feathers in their hair. Before setting 
out they join in a dance similar to the one for the dead ; but at the end of it the 
men get into a line on one side and the women on the other ; the men then run 
at the women, the latter lie down, the men jump over them, and the man who 
falls will be killed in the fight. The dance over, the party set out, killing every- 
thing they mec^t — foxes, crows, and every living thing — so that it may not give 
notice of their approach. When they meet the enemy they pretend to be very 



OF BRITISH AND RUSSIAN AMERICA. 



327 



great friends. After some time — perhaps days after their arrival — they seize 
the opportunity when their hosts are off their guard and plunge their knives 
into their hearts. Their weapons were the bow, arrow and knife. They mur- 
dered men, women, and children, except such of the women as took the fancy 
of their brutal conquerors, whom they took and treated no worse than the 
women of their own tribe. 

They have no knowledge of scalping, nor do they shave their heads. 

The changes introduced among them by the whites are as follows : 

There is far less murdering than in former times. The women do not kill 
their female infants. The young men do not strangle their parents when they 
are too old to be of service, and become a burden upon them. 

They use the gun instead of the bow in hunting, and iron axes and knives 
instead of stone, and they treat their women better. 

I forgot to mention in the proper place, that in war, when a man kills his 
enemy, he cuts all his joints. 




Indian cradle. 



THE AMERICAN MIGRATION. 



BY FEEDERICK VON HELLWALD, 

Member of the Imperial Geographical and Zoologico-Botanical Societies of Vienna, Corr& 
sponding Honorary member of the Mexican Society of Geography and Statistics, &c., &c. 



TRANSLATED FOR THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION BY C. A. ALEXANDER. 



PREFACE 



The following pages are occupied with a subject but little considered and, as 
far as I am aware, not yet specially treated of. Limited, however, as are the 
sources of ovir information resjjectiug aboriginal American history, the present 
essay can prefer no claims to completeness in having exhausted the materials 
actually before me. But my fellow-laborers, of whom it is to be regretted there 
are but few in Germany, and scarcely any within a more immediate circle, will 
perhaps meet herein with some views not before promulgated. I have scrupu- 
lously endeavored to collate, as far as possible, whatever relates to the Amer- 
ican migration and constitutes the sum of our present knowledge respecting it, 
and my aim will have been attained if I shall succeed in drawing the attention of 
the public to this wide and uncultivated fi< Id of the ancient history of America. 

In order to facilitate the necessary preliminaiy studies of any one to whom 
this subject may offer serious attractions, I have not deemed it superfluous to 
supply in the notes an array of the most remarkable and important authorities 
which farnish the material to be employed in the elaboration of primeval Amer- 
ican history, although it be necessary with this view to cite many works which 
have no direct bearing on the subject treated of. In each of the cited works 
there will at least be found some detached contribution to our knowledge of the 
migration in question ; it was, in fact, from such notices that my own studies 
have been drawn, since, as above mentioned, there Avas no special treatise to 
which I could have recourse. Where occasion offered, I have compared with 
one another the phenomena of migration in both continents, even when no ulte- 
rior consequences were to be deduced ; prompted in this by the reflection that 
it is always interesting to bring into juxtaposition the parallel incidents of 
history. 

My point of view, which I have deemed it necessary to indicate in advance, 
is frankly opposed to that adopted by the greater number of inquirers in this 
and kindred provinces ; the hypothesis of an immigration by which America 
was peopled finds able and influential supporters ; the conception of an autoch- 
thonous population is shared only by the few. It will be understood that only 
extensive and analytical researches, lying beyond the scope of the present pub- 
lication, can have forced upon me an opinion which I cannot alter vintil its un- 
tenableness shall have been clearly established. 



THE AMERICAN MIGRATION. 329 

Taking this opportunity to express my warmest thanks to the accomplished 
and friendly individuals, both far and near, Avho have in the most liberal manner 
promoted my studies, I commend the following pages to the indulgence of the 
learned and the kindness of the reader. 

Vienna, February 6, 1866. 



As the geographical description of the theatre ou which the most important 
human transactions have taken place supplies a peculiar value to the represent- 
ations of the historian, and seems an almost indispensable background to the 
historical picture, so are isolated historical events of high interest to the geogra- 
pher who undertakes to investigate and explain certain remarkable phenomena, 
especially in relation to the geography of races and languages. One of these 
events which enters most deeply into the geographical relations of the world, 
which offers accordingly a point of contact as well to the historian as the geog- 
rapher, is incontestably that vast phenomenon of the migrations which are au- 
thentically recognized as having taken place in all parts of our earth. * 

In the following pages it is the migration in America which is to be especially 
kept iu view. Some brief preliminary remarks, however, seem to me indispens- 
able in order to indicate the point of view from which the following studies 
were prosecuted. Although it cannot be denied that, in the earliest epochs, 
migrations of tribes everywhere took place, I am forced to dissent from the 
opinion so often revived iu latter times, which supposes, for the sake of explain- 
ing all that is otherwise inexplicable, a general peregrination which is itself in- 
volved in the most mysterious obscurity. In assuming such migrations the 
utmost circumspection should be observed, a,ud the assumption can only be vin- 
dicated when shown to rest on firm historical foundations. For this reason I 
am unable to give in my adhesion to the theory which assumes that the origi- 
nal seat of the human races must be sought in higher Asia or somewhere else,t 
whence mankind are supposed to have spread themselves gradually over the 
whole globe ; an assumption which is contradicted, in the most decisive manner, 
by the peopling of the New World. It is impossible to enter here into all the 
hypotheses I which liave been, framed for the explanation of a fact so perplex- 
ing to the biblical students of the sixteenth century, and of course later times ; 
it. is enough to say that thus far not one of them has been found to correspond, 

* We know that even the South Sea islanders migrate. See on this subject : Dummore- 
Lang ; View of the Origin and Migrations of Polynesian Nations. — Quateit'ages : Lcs Poiy- 
nesiens et Icur migrations (Revue des Deux Mondes, Feb. 1864.) — O. F. Peschel: Die Wan- 
derungen der Sildsee-Vdlker (Ausland, 1864.) 

t Galindo, for example, transfers the original residence of the human race to America, and 
supposes civilization to have thence migrated into the Old World. 

1 1 content myself with mentioning, besides the writings of Delafield, J. Mcintosh, Brad- 
ford, Zostermann, Castaing, Feyjoo, J. Perez, Mitchell and the Abbe Brasseur dc Bourbourg, 
the following interesting and rarely cited works, for which I am, for the most part, indebted 
to the kindness of Hr. George Schwarz of Vienna, who has allowed me to make unrestricted 
use of his rich collection of books relating to America : Hugo Grotius : Disscrtatio dc origine 
gentium Amcricanorum, Ainstclodami, Ri4"i. — Jean de Laet; Not(e ad diss. H. Grolii de ori- 
gine gent. Aineric., J 643. — Jean de Laet: Rcsponsis ad H. (irotii diss, de origine gent. Atueric. 
1644. — Poisson: Aniinadcersiones in originem Peruoianorum et Mexicanorum, Parisiis, 
1644. — Georgius Horuius : De Originibus Amcricanis. lla^ve, 16.r2. — Gottfried Wagner : De 
Originihus Aiiier. Dissertutio 'L\[)S\iC, 1669. — Thom. Thorowgood: Jeics in America, or prob- 
abiUties that the Americans are of that race, London, 1650 — And Rocha: Tratadu unico y 
singularc del origen de los Indios occidentales del Peru, Mexico, Santa F^,. y Cliile, Lima, 
1681. — Engel : Essai sur cette question: comment f Amerique asl-clle ete peuplee d'hommes et 
d'animaux, Amsterdam, 1767. — Pkilosophischc Untcrsuchungen ubcr die Amcrikaner, Berlin, 
176!). — Corn.de Pauw; Recherches sur C Amerique el lcs Amcricains, Berlin, 1774. — Vater. 
Untersuchungen ubcr America's Bccolkerung aus dem alien Continent, Leipzig, 1810.- 
McCuUoch: Researches philos. and antiquarian concerning the aboriginal history of America, 
Baltimore, 18.i9. — Josiah Priest: American Antiquities, Albany, 1834. 



330 THE AMERICAN MIOrJRATION. 

even approximately to the demands of science ; and that theory is probably, in 
every point of view, the most tenable and exact which assumes that man, like 
the plant, a mundane being, made his appearance generally upon earth when 
our planet had reached that stage of its development which unites in itself the 
conditions of man's existence. In conformity with this view I regard the 
American as an autQchthon ; consequently there can no question be here en- 
tertained respecting an immigration into America. 

The idea of the migration of American tribes is, for the most part, and by 
early writers nearly always, confounded with this immigration into America. 
While the American continent exhibits monuments, not to be. mistaken, of a 
migration of the native tribes within the same, the idea of a foreign intrusion has 
been strongly sustained for three hundred years, during which these monuments 
have received a false interpretation. On the other hand, the surprisingly high 
culture witnessed by the first European visitors in a part of the world assumed 
to be inhabited by savages remained so inexplicable, and the knowledge at that 
time of the degree of civilization existing among the further Asiatic nations 
was so limited, that recourse was had to hypotheses which later inquiry has by 
no means tended to substantiate. Only in the most recent times and with diffi- 
culty has some progress been made in favor of the opinion which regards the 
American autochthons as a people who had attained a form of civilization by 
modes of their own, a conclusion which enriches the philosophy of history with 
a fact of no inconsiderable import. 

Were we disposed to reduce into one comprehensive system all the fallacious 
hypotheses advanced, and which would, in fact, scarcely exclude any nation 
from the honor of having peopled, or at least civilized, America, we should find 
that they fall into two categories, which were only too often advocated by one 
and the same author, thus introducing into the question a truly embarrassing 
complexity. To the first category belong those hypotheses according to which 
America remained unoccupied and waste until, in process of time, some immi- 
gration, no matter on which side, took place from the Old World ; a consequence, 
perhaps, of the general movement by which men separated themselves more and 
more widely from their original abode in Central Asia. This is the theory of a 
simply populating immigration. To the second category pertain those opinions 
which, in order to account for the singular degree of culture in America, sup- 
pose an immigration, no matter again on which side, of a peopleal ready civil- 
ized, though in times, of course, considerably nearer to our own. This immi- 
gration is also regarded by many as the occasion of the actual and acknowledged 
American migiation ; a view which obtained especial credit from the partial 
acquiescence of A. von Humboldt, who, indeed, avowed that he considered an 
ancient intercourse between western America and eastern Asia as more than 
probable, though he could not determine the manner in which the connexion of 
these Asiatic branches of the human family took place.* As distinguished from 
thei first, I would call this last the theory of a civilizing immigration. But this, 
also, receives no countenance from the results of the latest investigations. 

Freed from all these theories of immigration of whatever name, it remains to 
contemplate the migration of the American indigenes as an historical phenome- 
non, which stands alone and independent, like those observed in the Old World, 
with which we have, of course, far better means of being acquainted. To as- 
certain the causes of these, as well as of the migration of populations beyond 
the ocean, is a hitherto unachieved task ; everything in relation thereto is mere 
conjecture. Whoever, like myself, entertains the persuasion that man in his 
development, and hence, indirectly in his history, is potentially influenced by 

* Vthtr Stcppen und JVilsten, in the Ansichten der Natur, Stuttgard, 1859, vol. I, p. 151. 
See, also, numerous passages of Humboldt's masterly but little read work, Vucs des Cor- 
dilleras et Monumcns des Fcvples Indigenes de V Amirique, Paris, 1816, vol. II. 



THE AMERICAN MIGRATION. 331 

the geographical conditions of the soilAvhichhe inhabits, and therefore stands iu 
a much more dependent relation to its nature tlian is commonly supposed, may 
advance the indeed sufficiently hazardous hypothesis that this secret cause is to 
be sought in some natural phenomenon to us unknown ; yet, to this supposition 
can no other than an entirely problematical value be attached. 

If wo seek, however, to establish for historical events a basis in geographical 
relations — that is to say, if we carefully compare them together, analyzing the 
former and investigating their possible causes, studying the latter and deducing 
as far as possible the resulting consequences — we shall find that certain generally 
valid laws, whicb resolve in the simplest manner many an xmexplained riddle, 
are evolved from such a study through the remarkable correspondence of facts. 
Thus, in reference to the migrations of mankind, it seems to result from the 
geographical structure of continents that, as by virtue of an historical law, we 
are not to look for men of comprehensive and deeply penetrating intellect in 
Lapland or Malta, in Bosnia or Asturias ; so, conformably with a strict geo- 
grafhival law, the direction of the migratory stream will be found always to 
lie in the axis of the greatest longitudinal extension of the continent.^ In fact 
no example from history informs us that the Tchapogires, Tunguses, Jakoots, 
or people from the banks of the Amour have ever descended into the Deccan or 
Malacca ; that the Ethiopians have ever migrated into Senegambia, or the Finns 
into Greece. As a new proof how much nations and men depend on geo- 
graphical circumstances, and even when they believe themselves guided by tlieir 
own will, merely obey a great natural law, the fact is of much significance that 
the American tribes form no exception to this general rule, for here, also, the 
procession of the migratory races is in the longer axis of the continent, namely, 
from north to south. This implies, of course, no mathematically exact line of 
transit, w^hich, in America, apart from all collateral circumstances, would be 
simply impossible, from the fact that the southern part of the continent projects 
considerably further to the east than the northern. By a progress from north 
to south we understand no more than that the migrating tribes always tended 
towards more southerly regions. 

That America, as well as Europe and Asia, was already inhabited before this 
great migration, and in many parts was possessed of an ancient civilization, 
admits of no doubt. Occasional traditions of those early periods of culture have 
penetrated to us, and I cannot forbear soliciting the attention of the learned 
■world to this legendary cycle of America, which is certainly worthy, in every 
respect, of a critical scrutiny; for to judge from so much as is yet known, the 
inquiry cannot but yield interesting and valuable disclosures respecting the 
cosmogouic views of the American aborigines and the general tendency of their 
ideas ; perhaps endow even the historian here and there with a fact of value. t 
But to determine, from our present knowledge of the mystical traditions of these 
races, which of the tribes in America may have been the oldest, seems to me as 
impossible as superfluous. Upon this soil multitudes of nations have moved. 

■* I first advanced this proposition in the session of the Imperial Geographical Society, at 
Vienna, 14th March, 1865. 

t It is wholly impossible, within the compass of this work, to enter into details or recur to 
all tlie sources which it has been necessary for me to take advantage of. I think it proper, 
however, in the interest of this in general but little cultivated study of the past ages of 
America, to name, from time to time, a part, if but a small one, of the principal works from 
which further information may be derived, and on which the views here developed are 
founded. With regard to legends and myths, see A. Rossaeus: Der gdntrcn Well Iieligione7i, 
odcr Bcsclirctbung alter (iuttes, und Goe.trcndicnstu in Asia, America, und Europa, Amstelo- 
damie, Ui()7 — Ternaux Compans : Esxai sur la Tlieogonic Mexicaine, Paris, 1840, (Annul, 
des Voyages.) — Carl Rafn: Cuhinctut for Americanslic Oldsager, (Antiquarisk Tidskrift, 
Iviobeuhavn, 185<J-o4.) — J. G. Miiller: Geschichtc dcr Amiricanischen LrTcligionen, Basel, 
1855.— liiasseur de Bourbomg: Popot J'u.'i, la litre sacr^ tt Ics Mi,tl(es de I Antiquity Mexi- 
caine, Paris, 18GJ, 



332 THE AMERICAN MTGEATION. 

and have sunk into the night of oblivion without leaving a trace of their exist- 
ence ; without a memorial through which we might have at least learned their 
names. Those nations only, which, by tradition, written records, monuments, 
or whatever other means first guaranteed the remembrance of their own exist- 
ence, belong to the domain of history, and history which, to be true, accepts 
nothing but what is actually known, points to those as the primitive races which 
first transmitted a knowledge of themselves ; time begins for us where the 
chronology of such nations takes its rise. But all these so-called aborigines 
might be only the remainder of previously existing races, of whom, again, we 
know not whether they were indeed the first occupants of the land.* In truth, 
we meet in America, at more than one point, with traces of a rich civilization, 
proceeding demonstratively from much earlier epochs than the tribal migration 
itself ; as, for example, in upper Peru the gorgeous structures of the Aymaras, 
near Tiahuanuco, on the beautiful shores of Lake Titicaca ; the mysterious 
monuments of Central America, between Chiapas and Yucatan, of which the 
buildings of Palenque constitute the most celebrated representative; the earth 
and stone works of a people distinct from the above, on the banks of the Missis- 
sippi and Ohio. 

These facts, however, should not surprise us. We need only cast a glance 
at Europe itself. We know that the migration in middle Europe encountered 
races which had been preceded by the powerful Celts, a people widely spread, 
and endowed with a certain degree of culture, yet destined almost Avholly to 
disappear, except at a few points whither the stream of migration failed to pene- 
trate. But those great stone monuments which we find scattered from the most 
northern districts of Scotland to Portugal, from Courland to the western parts 
of France, and which, under various denominations, according to their form, 
are known as dolmens, menhirs, cromlechs, cairns, and giants' graves, whose 
occurrence in Africa has been recently demonstrated, and is asserted as regards 
even Syria and the Deccan. These all point to a still older pre-Oeltish people, 
w^ho, less cultivated than the preceding Celts, remain to us as great a mystery as 
the " mound-builders " of the Mississippi. The Celts, on their part also, wan- 
dered out of Asia into Europe, and probably met with these dolmen-builders, 
respecting whom we are at a loss to know whether they are to be referred to 
the Danish kiokkenmoddings and the Swiss pile-buildings, or whether these 
most ancient memorials of human society belonged to a still older people. t 

These obscure periods of man's history in the old world have, as is well 
known, been distributed by European archeologists, in conformity with the 
most important remains of their industry, into the epochs of stone, of bronze, 
and of iron. Since heaps of shells, like those of the Danish coast, are found on 
the seashore in Newfoundland, at St. Simon's island on the coast of Georgia, 
and recently near Guayaquil in Equador, it is not without just grounds inferred 
that the same gradations of development which have given names to the above 
epochs will be also recognized among the aboriginal Americans. The duration 
of these periods would of course be very different, and their termination and 
commencement, respectively, be later than was the case in Europe. In Asia, 
undoubtedly, at least among some nations, the bronze epoch was preceded by a 
period of copper, which seems to have been wanting in Europe. The admirable 

* Manuel Orozco j Berra: Geograjia de las Lenguas y Carta Ethnografica dc Mexico, 
Mexico, 1865. I call the attention of all tlie friends of linguistic science to this elaborate 
and most meritorious work of my colleague, and add, that for the investigator of American 
history it is quite indispensable. 

t Upon this interesting subject, which has in late times given rise to renewed discussion, 
recourse may be had to the suggestive writings of the Swedish naturalist, E. Desor, in the 
Augsburg and Cologne Gazettes, 186.5, wherein he propounds his well known Tamhu theory, 
which supposes the dolmens to have been the work, not of the Celts, but of the Tamhu tribes 
of Africa. Opposed to this are the opinions of my esteemed friend, Dr. Carl Andree, of 
Bremen, which he has communicated to the public through the Globus, edited by himself, 
and which present views worthy of the highest consideration. 



THE AMERICAN MIGRATION. 333 

researches of Squicr and Davis* regarding ilic remarkable antiquities of the 
valley of the Mississippi have disclosed in America u civilization which pre- 
ceded the bronze era, and wna marked by the use of a pure red copper, which 
was hammered in a cold state, and whose sources are to be sought on Lake 
Superior, where it still occurs in large quantities. AVhen this American age of 
copper existed, is not now to be deteimined ; we only know that it must at least 
reach back to a thousand years, since such a period would certainly be requisite 
for the growth of the venerable forests which now cover the remains of that 
ancient civilization.! The end of the bronze age, on the other hand, may be 
determined through the beginning of that of iron, which made its appearance 
with the first settlement of Europeans in America, and is characteristic of the 
existing era of civilization. 

The question might here suggest itself, in view of the existence of a con- 
siderable degree of culture in America before the migration, whether, in general, 
tribes in a state of civilization readily accommodate themselves to a migratory 
condition. ]f this question cannot be unconditionally answered in the affirma- 
tive, it cannot still be wholly negative, for experience has taught us that tribes 
who address themselves to migration, as, for instance, the above-mentioned Celts 
of Eui-ope, always possess a certain if not very high degree of civilization ; at 
all events, if not actually civilized, they are susceptible of becoming so. Even 
those hordes which, in the dawn of the middle age, overran Europe and over- 
threw Rome, the Goths, Vandals, Heruli, and Huns, were by no means devoid 
of all culture, possessing, as they did, even more of it than the races which they 
found and subjugated in Germany and Gaul. For these countries the migra- 
tion was no retrogradation ; neither had that of the Celts been so, who had pre- 
viously wandered out of Asia. That a people in the full enjoyment of civiliza- 
tion, with political institutions, and the manifold resources of social life amply 
developed, should deliberately quit their abode in obedience to some inexplicable 
impulse of migration, calls for no long discussion. In single individuals — in 
numbers, indeed, of single individuals — the migratory impulse, through social, 
political, or other motives, may still be aAvakened, as we witness constantly in 
the case of European emigration. But whole races of men never set themselves 
in motion when they have once transcended a certain limit of civilization. It 
is, perhaps, not superfluous to observe that, if we speak here of an- advanced 
civilization in ancient America, the phrase is by no means to be taken in an 
European sense. The sumptuous structures of Chichen-Itza and Palenque sus- 
tain no comparison with the simplest monuments of Greek and Roman cultiva- 
tion. The American drawings and sculptures are very far from indicating any 
truly artistic insight, while to any further advances in civilization in an Euro- 
pean sense, the total absence of phonetic writing,| familiar as this was to the 

* Ancient Monuments of the Mississijipi Valley, (Smithsoniau Contributions to Knowledge, 
vol. i : Wtisliing-ton, ]84f , 4*". ) Tie antiquities of this valley constitute already a considerable 
body of literature, which, for want of .space, I cannot here further discvimiuate. Sutfice it 
to say, that the work just cited is the most complete of those now existing. 

t See upon this subject the views developed in the "Natur," by the learned Dr. Otto Ule, 
of Halle. (Blicke in die zorgeschichtiiche Zeil des Menschcn. 1865.) 

t Several nations of America were possessed of writlen hicroglyphical signs, but it was in 
Mexico that these had been most cultivated, and indeed the Mexican liistorieal inqnirei, 
Abbe Brasseur de Bourboiug, believes in the existence of a sort of phonetic Avriting. But a 
correspondence which I have held on this subject with the distinguished linguist, Don Fran- 
cisco rimentel, Count of Heras, has not resulted in a confirmation of this assertion. Dou 
Pimentel writes to me, '21st September, 1865: "I have yet seen nothing to convince me 
that the ancient Americans had written characters like ours, although M. Brasseur is of a 
ditleient tipinion. They appear to have had only a representative and a symbolical mode of 
wiiting: the first a mere copy of the objects; the second expressive of ideas which admit of 
no material representation, as by placing a serpent to express imc. Something phonetichas 
been surmised in the character.s employed to convey the pronunciation of the names of places 
and other proper names, but in my view this proves nothing, because all these names are 
significant, and might very well be expressed in a direct manner." 



334 THE AMEEICAN MIGEATION. 

Assyriaiis, Persians, and Indo-Bactrians, nations which stood otherwise at a 
similar grade of development, must have operated as an effectual obstruction. 
Abstracted, however, from all purely cis-atlantic modes of thinking, the culture 
originally found in America must appear so much the more advanced as we 
compare it with the grade of development of other people in a state of nature — 
with that of the present Indians of America, for instance. This is the criterion 
which should be applied to all relating to the ancient civilization of America, 
and we shall thus be always justified in speaking of it as surprising in its ad- 
vancement. 

The people who, in due course of time, set themselves in motion in America, 
and sought new abodes in a southern direction, had not attained the degree of 
civilization which the Spanish conquerors marvelled at in the red men who in- 
habited the land at the epoch of their arrival, and which, notwithstanding, as 
above stated, fell far behind the ideas of European civilization even then enter- 
tained. 1 hold it. therefore, as by no means improbable that races, susceptible 
of improvement and bearing with them the germ of development, did really take 
part in the great American migration, but must decidedly regard it as an error 
to believe, as the advocates of the theory of a civilizing immigration do, that 
civilization was introduced into America simultaneously with the migration. 
That the course of civilization could not be wholly independent thereof is readily 
conceived. The event is considerable enough to have exerted in America, as in 
Asia and Europe, an influence on the development of civilization, the advanced 
condition of which, however, is very far from being identical with that of the 
migration. 

To one who contemplates the features of the migration which in our older 
continent swept like a lava stream, in the fourth and fifth centuries, over Asia 
and Europe, hurling to the dust the decayed fabric of Eoman domination, the 
migration of America must, in its whole form and nature, appear highly surpris- 
ing. Here we deal not, as in Europe, with the relatively short period of some 
century, during which the different races, rapidly following one another, crowded 
together upon the same theatre, but, rather, a slow and perhaps intermitting 
progression, which required for its complete accomplishment a period of at least 
five or six hundred years. Modern inquiry, to be sure, has taught us that in 
further Eastern Asia, and many centuries before our chronological era, the stream 
of migratory tribes set itself in motion, and the attack of the Turkish race of 
Hiong-Nu on the Uslin, a fair, blue-eyed, perhaps Indd-Germanic people, was 
the first check to the general movement which propagated itself from the great 
Chinese wall to the west of Europe. So far, certainly, is a similitude established 
between the migrations of the two continents, since to a certain point the ad- 
vance of the Asiatic hordes was very slow, and only in the end, on its arrival at 
the boundaries of Europe, did it become a precipitate one. But in America it 
would be unquestionably more correct to consider the migiation of tribes as a 
shifting of place, for it bore throughout this character. The cu-cumstance that 
the American movemcint began about the time when the Asiatic-European 
ended, has led many to infer that it was the latter, which was simply continued 
into America, and of course coincides with the immigration theory which I have 
before more particularly spoken of.* 

* The total unacquaintance with a milk diet in the new continent, and the consequent ab- 
sence of pastoral pursuits, which forms in the Old World the transition between the nomadic 
hunting tribes and the agricultural populations, (certainly a striking phenomenon,) induced 
Humboldt to derive the supposed immigrants from those races of Northeastern Asia, of whom 
we know that the use of milk is to them equally a stranger. (Ans. der Nat , 1, b2, and 
Vues des Cord., I, 34.) It further follows that he who admits the emigration to have p o- 
ceeded from the northern regions of America, where climatic influences forbid the rearing 
of herds, will arrive at the perhaps more correct conclusion ths^t a diet of milk was unknown 
to the Americans a priori. . Were this not so, the immigrating tribes would very soon have 
learned from the original inhabitants the use of milk as well as of ihe farinaceous gramiueaj. 



THE AMERICAN MIGRATION 335 

The wide region east of the ranges of the great Rocky and Cascade moun- 
tains, and west of the Allcghanies, traversed by the mighty waters of the 
Mississippi, Missouri, Ohio, and their tributaries, this region, the proper home 
of the mound-buihlers, preserves no trace whatever of an immigration or emigra 
tion. The smooth prairie, bel(juging lo a lacustrian formation,! embosoms only 
those enigmatical hillocks of earth which remain as yet the sole monuments of 
a widespread but vanished people. Nevertheless, it is more than probable that 
from hence the first emigrants moved towards the south. These lake regions, 
in tbeir southern part, reach the latitude of 42° north, and according to Hum- 
boldt, the mysterious Aztlan, whence tradition al eges the Aztec races to have 
issued. t is not to be sought further south than the same latitude. In still higher 
latitudes appears the Esquimaux Mith his karaht language, wholly distinct 
from the rest of the American idioms, as his physical structure also varies from 
that of the other American autochthones, whence the Esquimaux is properly to 
be identified with the polar man, the original and peculiar occupant of the arctic 
circum-polar regions of all parts of the world.* It may be assumed, therefore, 
with reasonable probability, that the region from which the migration proceeded 
is to be found between the limits of the karalit dialect on the north and the 42° 
of north latitude on the south. Without deducing consequences from this, I 
must yet signaHze the singular fact that the tract of Asia in which lies the 
probable point of exit of the migration of the old continent, between the great 
wall, namely, on the south, and the Amour river on the north, falls with nearly 
mathematical exactness under the same geographical degrees of latitude (the 
southern boundary coincides within 30') and the same climatic conditions as that 
of America. May there not be herein some circumstantial confirmation of my 
above proposed theory respecting the original causes of the respective migra- 
tions ? 

Although in the luxuriant pastures of this region no traces of the path fol- 
lowed remain, yet I am of opinion that observation of the geographical condi- 
tions of the land may guide us to a knowledge of its course. It may be assumed 
with certainty that such a migration always follows the most commodious con- 
formations of the country, avoiding all obstacles which would oppose themselves 
to the easy transit of the great human multitude. Thus we see in Europe the 
advancing hordes first sweep unimpeded over the level steppes and gentle slopes 
of Sarmatia, then appear on the Danube, and, following the valley of that stream 
as the easiest route, penetrate into the heart of middle Europe and to the gates 
of Italy. In fact, the earlier Celts had before chosen this commodious road for 
their migration. If, then, it is permitted us to conclude from analogy, which is 
no uncertain guide Avhen like causes operate under like conditions, the popu- 
lations of the co})per age of America, which had already dawned in the region 
of the lakes, would have followed the valleys of the Ohio and Mississippi, and 
then have directed their steps through the present States of Louisiana and 
Texas, probably along, the edge of the gentle acclivity which, under the name 
of the Sierra Guadalupe, stretches from the Rio Grande to the Rid Brazos, to- 
wards the banks of the great Rio Giande del Norte. 

There are many indications, moreover, Avhich lead us to believe that this was 
not the only route by which the northern tribes made their way to the south. 
A part of them seem to have become detached in the Mississippi valley, and to 
have projected themselves towards the southeast into Florida, the seat of a 
higher civilization, whence they eventually proceeded to Cuba and Yucatan; 

t According to the researches of Professor Alex. Winchell, (Silliman's Ameiicau Journal 
of Science and Arts, November, lt'64. No. 114.) 

X Sec, as regards this, Humboldt, I'ucs des Cordillhrcs in different places. 

* M. CI. Markham, secretary of the Geograpliical Societj' of London, delivered, 27th 
February, 186.^, a discourse '"on the origin and migrations of the Greenland Esquiiuanx," 
in v.hicii he supposes them to have proceeded Irom Upper Asia ! So 1 have read, at least, 
in au account ot the discourse, the original of which I have not been able to see. 



336 THE AMERICAN MIGRATION. 

while a branch of them, traversing the whole length of Cuba and the great arch 
of the Caribbean 'islands, descended finally to the banks of the Oronoco. This 
fraction of the migratory population may, of course, have been small and its im- 
petus inconsiderable, since the necessity of maritime transport, though only from 
island to island, would naturally impair its force. In the opinion of others, and 
among them Humboldt, even the Rocky mountains in their extension north- 
ward may have led similar branches of emigrants to adopt a different path in 
their progress towards the south. Whether these branches originally issued 
from the lake regions, though it is not impossible, is difficult to determine. 
They must at any rate, in departing from their homes, have taken a directly 
west or at least southwest direction. Although no substantial reasons can be 
assigned why any race of those latitudes should have given a preference to the 
toilsome defiles of the Rocky mountains, when the fair and commodious plains 
and prairies of the south lay before them, yet too many points of apparent con- 
nexion present themselves to admit of our consigning their adoption of such a 
route to the category of impossibilities. 

It is from the Rio Gila onwards that we are first enabled to perceive definite 
traces of ihe course of the migration into the regions of the south; the indica- 
tions of the different stages of its progress increase with its entrance upon Mexi- 
can territory, but we yet possess only sparingly the means of identification. 
The first immigrants who appeared in the north of Mexico brought with them 
the so-called Toltecatl civilization, the work of the races of the great Nahoa 
family.* The space which this mode of culture gradually occupied is shown 
by the two great casas on the Rio Gilat and in Chihuahua, by el Zape in Du 
rango and la Quemada in Zacatecas. Whether all these tribes maintained at 
the same time a separate or subordinate condition cannot now be ascertained; 
but in proportion to the genera growth and improvement would be the pro- 
vection of their boundaries to the south and the inducements offered to further 
migrations, f 

By the term immigration of a race we are not generally to understand a single 
immigration only ; we should rather comprehend under the common name, for 
example, of the Nahoa immigration, all expeditions of the branches belonging to 
that family. These expeditions took place successively at intervals, and there- 
fore, from first to last, suppose a considerable length of time, within which a 
large number of these branches successively arrived on the banks of the Rio 
Grande and Rio Gila. This consideration is of the more weight, since, through 
an improper conception of such terms, which involve, as we see, an idea of 
multitude, a source of confusion is introduced into the already sufficiently ob- 
scure history of the American migration. 

Over the Nahoas floats still much mystical obscurity; the epoch of their 
appearance in the northern parts of Mexico admits as yet of no accurate de- 
termination ; it must have taken place, however, at a much earlier time than 
the commencement of our Christian era. Our knowledge respecting these 
partially mythical people amounts to little more than enough to justify us in 
regarding them as perhaps the founders of (he stone-works in northern Mexico. 
If we admit that the age of the civilization indicated in the region of the Missis- 
sippi reaches back 2,000 years, it is not impossible that the Nahoas were also 
the builders of the earth-mounds in North America, or at least belonged to the 
race from which these Avorks proceeded. As regards the stone structures of the 

* The first volume of the Abbe Brasseur de Bourbourg's Histoire des Nations Civiliz&es du 
Mexigue et de V Ameriqiie Ce>-tralc, (Paris 1857-'59, 4 vols.,) treats at leng'th of the Nahoas. 
This work is very full and authoritative, though scarcely written with all the discrimination 
and clearness which was desirable. 

t At the confluence of the Rio San Pedro with the Rio C4ila, which is itself an affluent of 
the Rio Colorado, emptying into the Gulf of California, (Mar Vermeio. ) 

t Ovozco y Berra ; Geogr. d. las leng. de Mexico, p. 125. 



THE AMERICAN MIGRATION. 337 

great casas of el Z;ipc and la Quemada, we cannot but infer that their builders 
must have been long permanently .settled in those districts, which accords much 
better with later researches than the assumption of many that the jramigrating 
tribes had merely halted in the places for a few years, perhaps a quarter of a 
century, and in that time had erected these monuments.* 

With ;he appearance of the Toltecs some light begins to dawn on the histoiy 
of the migration .t This cultivated people, kindred also to the Nahoa family, 
cnteied IMexico in the seventh century of our era. The year 648 is generally 
reckoned that of their appearance; only Clavigero carries it back to the year 
596. 13ut here, likewise, is to be understood not merely a single immigration, 
but several of the same family. This plurality of migrations presents no light 
difficulties' to the historian as well as the geographer. Oiozco y Berra, whose 
linguistic and historical labors merit our highest consideration, has exerted him- 
self to thorw some light on the perplexities of the Toltec immigration. In the 
hieroglyphic annals relating to this subject we find the record of several itiner- 
aries, which all adapt themselves to the immigration in question. These itiner- 
aries, partially provided with chronological notices, correspond in some points, 
but disagree in others, and thus prove that they do not belong to one and the 
same expedition. It has already been shown that the routes of such migrations 
are always essentially influenced by the geographical conformation of the 
countryl Hence, at least three different routes of immigration are distiguishable 
on Mexican soil. The first and most important lies in the western part of the 
country, and may be traced from Sinaloa to Nicaragua along the coast of the 
Pacific ocean. The mountain chain which separates Sinaloa from Durango, and 
stretches to the banks of the llio Tololotlan, marks the direction of this route 
for many leagues. First, the course of the.Rio Grande de Santiago,§ then that 
of the Zacatula,|| diverted a part of the wanderers from the direct route and led 
them to the lake of Chapala',^] where they established themselves, while others, 
following in like manner the valleys of water-courses advanced to Guerrero, 
and gradually made their progress to the fertile table laud of Cuernavaca,** and 
still later to Puebla and TIaxcalla.tt 

The monuments of both the grand casas, el Zape and la Quemada, plainly 
show the second and middle route which led, on the east of the above-mentioned 
mountain chain, directly through Chihuahua, Durango and Zacatecas, to Jalisco, 

*' I had myself long held this opinion till a closer consideration of the facts satisfied me 
that the space of a quarter of a century could not have suflSccd for the erection of monuments 
wliicli are in fact the scanty remains of extensive settlements, probably of whole cities. It 
is hardly consistent with the logic of migration that a people in such circumstances should 
tind it expedient to found cities, only to abandon them in so short a time. 

t The populations which were settled in Mexico before the arrival of the Toltecs might 
also be possessed of an ancient native civilization ; among these pre-ToUec races are to be 
numbered the Olmccs, the Otomi, whose monosyllabic speech forms an exception to the 
polysynthetic idioms of America, the Totonacks on the eastern terraces of the Cordilleras, 
the Mixtocs on the coast of the Pacific ocean, the Tarasks in the greater part of Michoacan, 
and the Zapotecs in Oaxaca. 

\ Mountain ranges, river courses and sea-coasts prescribe limitations ; while for half civ- 
ilized, pastoral and agricultural tribes, the fertility, streams, lakes, and dales of new countries 
ofi'er special attractions. 

^S This river, called also the Tololotlan, which is formed at Salamanca by the junction of the 
Rio Hondo de Lerma and the Rio Laxa, flows through the lake of Chapala and empties into 
the Pacific ocean. 

|l The same name was bonie by a city at the mouth of the Rio de las Balzas, on the Pacific, 
which was long the capital of a flourishing and to the end of the fifteenth century independ- 
ent state. 

1i The lake of Chapala is the most considerable of those of the whole elevated plateau, and 
is distant forty miles in a northwestwardly direction from the capital. 

"** The ancient Quanhnahuac. 

tt Tlaxcalla wa sonce called Chalchinhapan; alsoTexcalticpac,(i. c, end of the stonehouscs,) 
still later Texcallan, (Rock city,) and finally Tlaxcallan, (Breadland, from Tlaxcall — maize- 
bread, ) on account of the fruitl'ulness of its situation. 
22 s G6 



S3 8 THE 'AMEEICAN MIGRATION. 

on the shore of lake Chapala, whence the immigrants would easily attain the 
Mexican table land- 
On the oast we discern along the Rio Graijde del Norte the traces of a third 
route of immigration which, according to Orozco, seems not to have touched 
upon New Leon and Tamaulipas. Whether the widely strewn ruins of an 
ancient city on the banks of the Rio Panuco* in the territory of the warlike 
Huaxtecs,t are associated with this route, I am not able to determine. Further 
to the south the traces again come to view, and may be followed to their jimc- 
tion with the rest on the high lands, of Anahuac. 

From these facts it results, in conformity with the accurate indications of 
Orozco, that, while heretofore but one Toltec immigration into Mexico has been 
admitted, several have in reality taken place at different times and by different 
lines of advance. To determine how many there may have been is at present 
impossible. It is certain, however, that through the supposition of a single 
immigration of a single migratory race it has been necessary to reconcile expe- 
ditions, facts, and discoveries, with unconformable names, with incoherent and 
contradictory conclusions, with a chronology in the highest degree perplexed, 
resulting, of course, in the most inextricable confusion. When we come, on 
the other hand, to analyze the phenomena so as to refer them to the facts as 
they really occurred, the difficulties vanish, riddles are solved, and all falls into 
the natural order, which from the first should never have been lost sight of. 

After it had lasted four centuries, famine, pestilence, and civil war put an 
end, about the year 1018, to the Toltec monarchy in Mexico.| The larger rem- 
nant of those Toltecs who had been spared by the calamities of the times left 
their country, and, according to the historian Don Fernando d'Alvarado Ixtlil- 
xochitl, took refuge in southern Guatemala and Nicaragua, but few families re- 
maining in their desolated land. Soon thereafter, but in the opinion of others 
a century later, the barbarous Chichimecs made their appearance on the high 
lands of Anahuac. Just as the Toltecs had occupied the sites in northern 
Mexico, abandoned by the Nahoas, in their progress southward, so had the 
Chichimecs who followed been long established upon the deserted lands of 
the Toltecs after the withdrawal of the latter to Anahuac. When now again 
the Toltecs abandoned the land which they had inhabited for four hundred 
years, the Chichimecs still followed at their heels ; nor was it necessary that 
they should enter as conquerors, since it needed only to take possession of 
the deserted homes of the Toltecs. These Chichimecs in the mean time, who 
had so long lived adjacent to the Toltecs, had, through their intercourse with 
the latter, in some degree discarded the rudeness of their manners at the date 
of their appearance on the elevated plateau of Mexico ; as had been the case 
with the barbarians who overthrew Rome, but at the same time imbibed the 
culture of the civilized Romans. 

The races which had thus far appeared in Mexico had pertained to one great 
branch of languages, the Nahoa, a dialect of which was also spoken by the Tol- 
tecs ; and this, till very recently, was supposed to have been the case likewise with 
the Chichimecs, although the Mexican historians Ixthlxochitl and Torquemada 



* Americanische Altenthumcr, (Westlancl, edited by Dr. C. Audree, Bremen, 1851, vol. i, 
p. 129-139, ) a very interesting article. i r n,r • 

t They inhabit the district known by the name of Hiiaxteca in the north of Mexico, and, 
on the Gnlf from Tuxpan to Tampico, a tract which embraces the northern part of the State 
of Vera Cruz and a 'part of San Luis Potosi bordering thereon. 

X It is impracticable to enter here into the history of the separate countries ; the inquirer 
will find fm-ther and accurate information in the works of Don Jose de Acosta, H. Benzoui, 
Benaduci Boturini, Brasseur, Brownell, T. de Bussi^re, Carlier, M. Chevalier, Fr. Clavigexo, 
Epinosa, Gallatin, Greg. Garcia, Gomara, Humboldt, Ixtlilxochitl, Kingsborough, Las Ca- 
sas, Mayer, Moke, Motolinia, MunSz, Oviedo y Valdez, Man. Payno, Frescott, Eamirez, 
Ruxton, Sahagun, Ant. de Solis, Solorzano, Ternaux-Compaus, Tezozomoc, Torcpemada, 
Tyler, Uhde, UUoa, Veytia, 



THE AMERICAN MIGRATION. 339 

had contested the fact. But Don Francisco Pimentel* has lately vindicated 
the opinion of these tAVO writers, and proved that the Chirhimecs possessed an 
entirely peculiar language ;+ consequently they could not have belonged to tlu- 
Toltec family. In view ol this now admitted fact, I can but deem it highly 
improbable that the Chichimecs arrived in northern Mexico by the same route 
with the other immigrating tribes, which were all related to one another, being 
members of the same race, and having probably inhabited a common land of 
nativity. But if the home of the Chichimecs was a different one from that of 
the o'her wandering populations, this circumstance would have naturally pre- 
scribed to them a different path to the south. Perhaps they constitute the 
branch Avhich, in the opinion of many, advanced, as has been already mentioned, 
on the further side of the Eocky mountains to the banks of the Gila. 

The Chichimecs had scarcely established themselves in Mexico when the im- 
migration of those seven tribes took place, which are known by the common 
name of Nahuatlacas, and which spoke the same tongue as the Toltecs, to 
whose family also they belonged Of these seven tribes, six first made their 
appearance, following closely on one another, namely, the Xochimilcos, Chalcas, 
Tepanecas, Tlahuicas, Colhuas,and Tlaxcaltecas ; while the seventh, the cele- 
brated Aztecs, arrived after a longer interval. In the mean time the Acolhuas 
also had appeared upon the theatre, but had soon become intermingled with the 
Chichimecs, who already possessed tjie country, forming by this union the 
kingdom of Acolhuacan. 

It was in 1090 that the Aztecs, the seventh of the Nahuatlaca race, and 
speaking the Nahuatl tongue,f issued from Aztlan, their original but unknown 
home, which, as above stated, is to be sought in the region of the great Ameri- 
can lakes. The Aztec annals which have come down to us enable us partially 
to trace this family in its wanderings, even if it be not possible for us to identify 
the geographical sites to which tradition gives a name. The year 1091 finds 
the Aztecs at Quahuitllcacan. In 1116 they are at Quinehuayan-Oztotl and 
Quinehuayan-Chicomoztoc. Hence they made their way to Teo-Culhuacan, . 
though it is impossible to distinguish the intermediate places which they visited. 
Their history begins to clear up with their arrival in Acahualtzinco, where they 
sojourned nine years, (1143.) Their onward march brought them into the 
province of Cohuatlycamac, not far from the ancient Tollan, then to Coatepec, 
which they reached in 1174, and where they settled for some time. Finally, 
between the years 1186 and 1194, about a century after they had issued from 
their home of Aztlan, the Aztecs appeared on the table land of Anahuac, never 
more to forsake it. It falls not within the scope of this essay, which deals 
merely with the migration, to speak of the further history of the Aztec king- 
dom, whose splendor and power are otherwise well known. § 

In the south of Mexico, as before remarked, there existed an ancient civiliza- 
tion, which we would designate as the palencan, and which, agreeably to the 
latest researches, is to be regarded as the oldest in America. The regions 

* lu his valuable work, Cxiadro descriptito y comparatiro dc lus Icnguas indigtnas de 
Mexico, (Mexico J862-'6i, ) of which two volumes have appeared. 

t A grammar of the Chu-himec language was composed by the monk Diego Diaz Pangua, 
who was born in Durarigo, and died in the year iCiil ; it was entitled Arte dc la Icnguu Chi- 
cluiiteca. He was the author also of a Chichimec dictionary, and a catechism in the same 
language; his works, however, have remained in manuscript. 

+ Biasseurnotices the similarity of sound between the words Nahuatl and the English 
Know-all, their signification, moieover, being the same. 

^ B asseur de Bourboui-g, Hist, de Nations Civ. du Mexique, vol. I. Since the study of 
the remains of Mexican constructions is of the highest importance for the history of the 
count) y, I enumerate the following places where the most remarkable ruins of this kind 
occur: The districts of Papantla, Cholula, and Teotihuacan, where terraced pyramids are 
found ; Mapilca, Tusapan, Isla de Sacnficios, Puente Nacional, Misantla, in the State of 
Vera Cruz, Tezcuco, Tezcocingo, Xochicalco in the State of Mexico, Quiotepec, Zachila, 
Coyula, S.J uan de los Cu6s, Mitla in Oaxaca. 



340 THE AMEEICAN MIGEATION. 

where its mon;imeiits occur, Chiapas, Griiatemala, and Yucatan,* are inhabited 
by the family which use the Maya-Quiche dialect, which some suppose to be 
derived from the Toltecsi But Orozeo y Berra contests this supposition, and 
justly, because the Quiche, with its two related idioms, the Oachiquel and 
Zultuhi, belongs to a family of languages wholly different from the Nahoa; and 
the Maya was limited to the little-known peninsula of Yucatan and some con- 
tiguous territories. It is impossible to determine the time at which the immi- 
gration of the Maya tribes commenced, or which of them first appeared in the 
country. From the multiplicity of the dialects of' tbis group of languages, we 
are justified in concluding that Mayas and Quiches had, at a very early epoch, 
separated from one another, the language of the former changing less than that 
of the latter, who, at a later period, came into contact with the Toltecs, living 
north of them. Of the primitive population which erected the numerous monu- 
mentsf of the region in question, history has no further knowledge than that 
they were the possessors of a civilization far in advance of that of the races 
which we are inclined to regard, as the aboriginal people of Mexico, though it 
bore no resemblance to that of the northern Nahoas. 

As the Toltecs, after the fall of their dominion in Mexico, migrated to Giiate- 
mala and Nicaragua, they probably pressed further south the populations which 
then occupied those countries, and finally founded in Central America itself 
several small kingdoms, traces of which are not yet extinct By late and very 
competent inquirers the hypothesis has been advanced that the surprising con- 
structions of Central America and Yucatan belong not to so early a period as is 
commonly assumed, but are the work of later times, perhaps even of the civilized 
Indian races which inhabited the land at the arrival of the Spaniards, or at least 
of their immedia:e predecessors. The traveller, Stephens, and the skilful ob- 
server, Brantz Mayer, have advanced, in support of this view, many weighty 
and ingenious, considerations ; and I was myself inclined to adopt the opinion 
that at least the migrating Toltecs, who had already earned so much distinction 
as architects in their own country, should be regarded as the builders of these 
remarkable monuments, thus assigning to them an age not more remote than the 
twelfth century. But a more careful comparison of these remains with those of 
undoubted Toltec origin, added to the recently ascertained fact that the hiero- 
glyphic characters found on them bear not the least resemblance to the rest of 
the picture-writing of Mexico, place it beyond all doubt that these monuments 
belong to an earlier and, indeed, very ancient epoch.§ The traces of the mi- 

* On the history of Yucatan, see Cogolludo, Historia de V Yucatan, Madrid, 1688, fol. — ; 
Fancourt, History of Yucatan from its discovery to the close of the 17th century, London, 

t The distinguished archeologist, G. E. Squier, goes so far as to derive the Toltecs from 
Central America. 

t In Yucatan alone, thanks to the diligent researches of MM. Norman and Stephens, may 
now be counted the rnins of fifty-four cities. The most remarkable are Uxmal, Chichen- 
Itza, Maxcanu, Sacbey, Xampon, Sanacte, Chunhuhu, Labpakh, Iturbide, Mayapan, Ticul, 
Nochacab, Xoch, Kabah, Sabatsche, Labna, Kenick, Izamal, Saccacal, Tekax, Akil, Mani, 
Macoba, Becanchen, Peto in the interior. Tuiioom, Tancan, and the island Cozumel in the 
east ; in Chiapas, Palenqu6, Utlatan, Ococingo ; in Guatemala, the ancient ruins of the 
Quiches in the distiicts of Totonicam and Quesaltenango ; in Honduras, the monolithic 
pyra;mids of Copan ; and quite in the east of the country, the old city of Olancho. 

§ For the history of Central America recourse may be had to the following writers : Aviles : 
Historia de Guatemala, 1866. — Felaez : Memoria para la Historia del Antique Reyno de 
Guatemala, 1852, 3 vols. — Villagutierre : Historia de la Conquista y Rendicion de varias 
Provinciae del Reyno de Guatemala, Madrid, 1701, fol. ^-r. — Ximenes : Las Historias del 
Origen de los Indios de esta Provincia de Guatemala, Traducidas dela lengua Qiiiche, Vienna, 
1857 ; an excellent and most important work of my highly honored benefactor. Dr. C. v, 
Sclierzer. Oersted, I' A7nerique Centrale, Kopenhague, lo63. — Eeichard: Nicaragua, BrsLun 
schweig, 1854. — Reichard: Centra America, 1851. — Scherzer: Wanderungen Dusch die Mit 
telamericanischen Freistaaten, Nicaragua, Honduras, undS. Salvador, Braunschweig, 1857.— 
Squier: Nicaragua, its People, Scenery, Monuments, New York, 1852, 2 vols. — Squier 
Notes on Central America, 'New York, 1855. — Squier: The Archeology and Ethnography q, 
Nicaragua, (Transact. American Ethnol. Society, vol. Ill, 1852.)— Wagner and Scherzer 
Die Republik Costa Rica, Leipsig, 1856. 



THE AMERICAN MIGRATION. 341 

gration are not susceptible of being followed in Central America with the same 
certainty as in the more northern Mexico. To the philologist alone it pertains 
to investigate, in the manifold dialects of the former country, the intermixture 
of the Nahuatl element as it spread southwardly to Nicaragua, and thus to sup- 
ply incontrovertible proofs of the migration. 

A wide space separates the ruins of Palenque and Olancho from the elevated 
lands of Cundinamarca. A dense obscurity rests upon the countries of th« 
isthmus, Costa Rica, Chiriqui, Panama, and Choco ; but imperfectly explored in 
relation to geography, they are still more unknown in relation to archeology. 
On the luxuriant and picturesque shores of Lake Nicarargua we lose, as it were, 
the bond which might connect the populations of the north and south continents 
of America. For ten degrees of latitude nearly all traces of the past vanish, 
and it is only on the South American main land, in the mountains of New 
Grenada, that wC again perceive a gleam of dawning civilization, which was for 
a long time almost wholly overlooked. Yet a doubt can scarcely exist but that 
the migration continued to advance in those little knoAvn dit^tricts of the isthmus. 
In Chiriqui have recently been discovered and explored some of the burial 
places of the natives,* which are similar to those known in Peru by the namo 
of huacas. Were these districts more thoroughly explored, it is quite probable 
that the search would be rewarded by the discovery of sepulchral or other 
vestges of civilization, calculated to throAv more light on the tortunes of these 
provinces. 

On the South American continent the points which offer themselves for the 
prosecution of our inquiry respecting the migration are of far less frequent 
occurrence than in the northern portion of America. That pari of the Cordil- 
leras of the Andes, whose western foot is bathed by the E-io Magdalena, and 
Avhich, stretching ni a northeast direction, forms the lofty phi ins of l^ogota and 
Tunja, wliich further south rises into the profound solitudes of Paramo de Suma 
Paz, was inhabited at the time of the discovery of these countries by the Chibcha 
race,t whom the Spaniards improperly denominated Muyscas.f These people 
still exist in the country, but have almost entirely forgotten their ancient lan- 
guage, which was soft, flowing, and copious. § As far as is known to myself, 
nothing has as yet been found to enlighten us respecting an immigration of this 
race, unless it be their peculiar legend of the mythical personality of Bochica, 
which certainly possesses a striking resemblance to the Quetzalcohuatl of the 
Toltecs.' There can be little doubt that the obscurity which rests on the past 
history of the Chibchas will be greatly dispelled by the indefatigable ardor of 
Dr. Ezequiel Uriocoechea,|| of Santa Fe de Bogota, who has applied the re- 

* King Menitt : Report on the hutcas or ancient graveyards of Chiriqui, read before the 
Ethnological Society, New York, 1860. 

tTbe land of tbc Cbibchas comprised the lofty plateaus of Bogota and Tunja, the valleys 
of Fusagasuga, Pacbo, Caqueza, and Tensa, together with the whole of the districts of 
Ubate, ChiqniBqnird, Moniquird, and Leyva, and could in ancient times number a popula- 
tion of 2,000 to the square league, thus falling little if at all behind the most thickly peopled 
tracts of Europe. The Chibchas were a people of somewhat advanced civilization, possess- 
ing temples of the sun with stone pillars, remains of which have been found iii the valley of 
Leyva. Monuments peculiar to the Chibcha architecture occur in the Cojincs of Tunja, the 
Calzada of the plain of Pataqu6 and the ruins of Infierito. The Chibchas, however, seem 
never to have attained the degree of culture of the more southern Peruvians. 

t A. V. Humboldt reproves this use of the term Muysca, which in the Chibcha language 
simply means "man." (Aus. d. Nat., ii, 270.) 

<^ The best book which we yet have respecting this remarkable people is that of Joaquiu 
Acosta. Compendia historir.o del discubrimiento y colonizacion de la Xueva Grenada; Pans, 
184H. 

II To this writer, who is at present occupied in publishing the "Monumenta Chibcharum, " 
we already owe the valuable work Memoria subre las antiquedades neu-granadmas, Beiiiu, 
1854. 



342 THE AMEEICAN MIGEATION. 

cources of a rare sagacity to the solution of this difficult problem. Only when 
we shall have verified the place of the Chibchas in the circle of the other 
American races, can we hope to detect the traces of any possible shifting of the 
population. On the neighboring high lands of Quito, on the other hand, we 
meet with some indications of such an occurrence, if but faint ones. As early 
as the year 980, Caran Schyri conquered the kingdoni of Cara. The Cara race 
inhabited the coast from the river Oharapoto to Cape S. Francisco, and is said 
to have come from over the sea. History does not distinctly inform us whence 
it sprung, nor at what time its colonization took place.* Nevertheless, it might 
be possible to connect its appearance with the common American migration, 
Avhich, if it generally reached South America, arrived there in a much attenu- 
ated condition. 

Peru is to the southern division of America what Mexico is to the northern. 
It is, moreover, the only point of South America in which distinct indications 
of an immigration present themselves. In the absence of these, the hypothesis 
might perhaps be tenable that the migration terminated at the lake of Nicaragua 
without having attained the South American mainland. But the fact that the 
numerous relics of civilization in Peru clearly point to two different periods of 
culture, and proceed from two different races of men, one of which immigrated 
at epochs capable of being historically determined, could scarcely be expr.dned 
without bringing this incident into connexion with the general migration. While 
the origin of the Peruvian kingdom, like that of all these races, loses itself in a 
cloud of myths;t while many extinct tribes, as the Chinchas or Yungas, and 
the Huaucas, may still be identified ; while the extensive structures near Tiahu- 
anuco on Lake Titicaca,! the ruins of the once gorgeous temple of Pachacamac§ 
on a mountain by the sea, to the southeast of Lima, and perhaps also the ruins 
of the ancient Caxamarquilla,|l are derived from the once powerful Aymara 
nation, which inhabited the land in early times, as their chiilpas^ or sepulchral 
mounds still attest, there arrived on the elevated plains of Quito and Cuzco, in 
the year 1021 of our era, a warlike people, whom 1 propose to call, from their 
rulers, the Inca race. Manco Capac, the first of these lords of the sun, founded, 
in 1050, the city of Cuzco,** while under his successor, Sinchi Roca, the Ay- 
maras withdrew further west, in order to evade the domination of the Incas. 
Under the following emperors, Lloque Yupanqui and Mayta Capac, war was 
made upon the Aymaras, who were compelled still to recede. Finally, in the 
fifteenth century, the Inca Capac Yupanqui drove the native races before him 



* The first king founded the city of Cara on the bay of Caraqui between the years 700 and 
800. The Caras conquered under Schyris I, to Schyris VIII, all the small separate states 
which existed in that region, and continued as the kingdom of Quitu txnder the dynasty of 
the Schyris of Cara until the year 1487, when the powerful Inca Hayna Capac conquered 
their kingdom and reduced it to a province of Peru. (Velasco, Historia de Quito.) 

+ Many of Avhich recall those of the highlands of Anahuac, as, for example, that of Que- 
ralcohuatl. 

t On two islands of the lake are seen the temples of the sun and moon, together with the 
cloister of the virgins dedicated to the moon. On the genuine ruins of Tiahuanuco is every- 
where recognized the symbol of the sun, and I am therefore persuaded that the Incas did not, 
as is commonly thought, bring with them the worship of the sun, but, rather, found it al- 
ready in the country and adopted it. 

§ Pachacamac (that is, creator of the earth, from patcha, earth, and camac, participle of 
camane, I make) was the supreme God of the Indians of Peru.' 

II In a part of the valley of Rimac. 

^ The graves of the Changes and Quechuas are called huacas, which means, according to 
some writers, place of weeping ; (see, on the signification of this word, Prescott's Hist, of 
the Conquest of Peru, vol. i, p. 93;) they occur in great numbers, especially in the hills of 
Cocotea, Tamba, and Mejillones, in the envirous of Iquique, and in the Morro of Arica. 

*^ Cuzco, the Ccoz^coof the Incas, signifies in the Quechua language, "navel" — that is, 
centre of the kingdom. 



THE AMEEICAN MIGRATION. 343 

as far as Chili, where, at length, the brave tribe of Chalchaqui Indians opposed 
to the ambitious Incas an efi'cctual resistance.* 

If it be considered that the Inca dynasty in Peru presents more than one re- 
semblance to the civilized Toltecs of Mexico ; that in the traditions of both 
many points of coincidence occur, and, what perhaps is of most weight, that the 
tim(i of the appearance of the Incas in Peru agrees in a surprising degree with 
that at which the Toltecs, after the subversion of their kingdom, might have 
reached the country, we shall scarcely be disposed to reject the surmise of A. 
V. Humboldt, that in early epochs a procession of the later Inca races took place 
over the table land of Mexico. Their arrival in Peru would thus constitute the 
last step of the great American migration. The ingenious arguments by which 
Humboldt weakened without overthrowing his own conjecture are well known, 
leaving the question open whether the Toltec races which passed into the south- 
ern hemisphere piocecded by the way of the cordilleras of Quito and Peru, or 
through the plains lying east of the Andes to the banks of the Marauon. 

In the remaining tracts of the ^outh American continent there occur but few 
traces ot civilization of a quite inferior grade. The migration, as far as is yet 
known, did not penetrate into these regions, but was confined to the western 
part of the range of the Andes. Even in southern Chili and Patagonia nothing 
of such an event is distinguishable. All that :s found in the low lands of South 
America pertaining to human culture consists of a sort of runic characters, 
eilhi'r carved or painted on stone, which are of very doubtful signification. We 
meet with such hieroglyphic symbols not far from Tijuca, in the diamond district 
of Miuas Geraes, in Brazil; further north, near Ceara ; in the province of Bahia, 
on the Serra do Anastasio, and in the scarcely explored wilderness, of Piauhy ; 
they occur next in the province of the Alto Amazonas, on the banks of the Ilio 
Hyapura ; near Montalegre, in the province of Para, and on the Hio Negro and 
Kio Ucagari, or Uaupes. The tradition of the Zome, existing among the In- 
dians of the province of Bahia, and which bears some resemblance to the Bo- 
chica of the Chibchas, and the Qnetralcohtiatl of the Toltecs, wtuld seem to 
show that an element of culture had penetrated into the counti-y from without.t 
Some countt^nauce seems to be given to this supposition by the statement of the 
oldest authorities that, of the two groups of inhabitants who occuj^ied Brazil at 
the time of its discovery, one regarded the other as being more recent intruders. 
If It be true, however, that there once existed in the low lands of Brazil, as in 
the. interior of the United States of North America, the seat of a not wholly un- 
civilized race of aborigines, the fact mtist at least ascend into such remote pre- 
historic times that every trace thereof may have well been obliterated.^ " For," 

* Respecting the history of Peru see the following works — Balboa : Histoire du Perou. — 
Beauchauip: Histoire cle la Conquitn tt des Revolutions dc Perou, Paris, 18U8. — Bellesteros : 
Oidenanzas del Peru, IL'nna, iiiSo. — Colpaert : Eude sur le Perou, Paris. — Desjardines : Le 
Perou (leant la Coiiquete Espagnolc, Paris, 185b. — Fernandez : Historin, del Peru, Sevilla, 
loTl. — Gaicilasode la Vega: Comcntarios Reales, 16U9, and Hist. Gentral del Peru, 161G. — 
Gosse: Dissertation sur tcs Pacts (jai Composaicnt V Ancicnnc Population du Perou, Paris, 
]8G0. — Xjaikhum: Travels in Peru and India, London, 18ti2. — Marmontel: Les Incas, Franc- 
fort, 17Ui.— Peralta: Lima Funduda, Poema Eroycs,lj\ma,, 17',i'-i. — Perez: Notice sur Ics Gut- 
pus des Anciens Perumens. — (Kev. Amer., 18(54.) — Prcscott: Hist, of the Conquest of Peru, 
New Yoik, J847. — Rivero y Tschudi : Antiquedades Peruanas, Vienna, 185J. — Xerez : Con- 
quista del Peru, Salamanca, 1547. — Zarate: Historia del Descubrimiento y Conquista del 
Peru, Seviila, 15:57. 

t ll.mdelmanu, Geschichte von Brasilien, Berlin, I860, p. 7-11. 

t Tlierc is, of course, no literature properly relating to the ancient history of these coun- 
tries, bat scattered notices may be found in the following works, in which, moreover, the 
whole of their history since the conquest is comprised — Angelis: CoUerrion de obras y Docu- 
vieutos relativos a la Historia Antique y Moderna dclas Provinvias del Riodela Plata, Buenos 
Ayres, 18:!6. — Arenales: Noticias Historicas y Descriptivas sabre el gran pais del Chaco y Rio 
Berviijo, Buenos Ayres, 18J3. — Baralt: Resiimen de la Historia ae Venezuela, Paris, 1841. — 



344 THE AMERICAN MIGEATION. 

as an accurate observer of the country writes, " the whole island which lies be- 
tween the Atlantic ocean on one side, and the river Amazon, along the Rio da 
Madeira, and the Paraguay and Parana on the other, seems never to have been 
penetrated by the slightest degree of civilization ; nowhere is there a manifesta- 
tion of mental activity or aim risiug above the merest physical necessities ; and 
the Indians of the Brazilian forests, who no doubt receded before the peculiar 
civilization of the western Cordilleras of South America, as they recoil to-day, 
as long as is possible, from that which approaches them on the east, constitute 
the most unreasoning and incapable of creatures."* In the absence of other 
monuments, no hypothesis, I think, dissenting from this statement of facts, can 
be advanced, much less defended. The scattered inscriptions which have been 
found seem to afford no sufficient ground for the adoption of sweeping conclu- 
sions, which, in the interests of science, moreover, it were better to avoid. 

An attempt has been made in the above pages to follow the memorable phe- 
nomenon of the migration of tribes in America through its entire course, or, in 
other words, its geographical propagation, and to present the reader with a 
comprehensive, if reduced, sketch of it. Should we at last be forced to confess 
that darkness rather than light has met us at the different points of our investi- 
gation, there yet remains the hope that, through the persevering labors of the 
learned world of America, our knowledge in this hitherto but little favored field 
of inq^uiry will ere long receive new and gratifymg accessions. 



APPENDIX TO THE FOREGOING ARTICLE. 

[The investigations given in this paper relate exclusively to the migrations 
and not to the origin of the American races, and, therefore, the author need not 
have introdu«ed the vexed question of the latter. But since he has done so, it 
may be proper to give in this place a brief statement of the scientific considera- 
tions which favor the generally received opinion as to the original seat of the 
human race. 

The spontaneous generation of either plants or animals, although a legitimate 
subject of scientific inquiry, is as yet an unverified hypothesis. If, however, we 
assume the fact that a living being will be spontaneously produced when all the 
physical conditions necessary to its existence are present, we must allow that, 
in the case of man, with his complex and refined organization, the fortuitous as- 
sembly of the multiform conditions required for his appearance would be extremely 
rare, and from the doctrine of probabilities could scarcely occur more than at one 
time and in one place on our planet ; and further, that this place would most 
probably be somewhere in the northern temperate zone. Again, the Caucasian 
variety of man presents the highest physical development of the human family, 

Barco Centinera: Argentina y Conquista del Rio de la Plata, Poema ap. Barcia. — Beau- 
champ: Histoire du Brazil, Paris, 1815. — Charlevrix: Geschictev. Paraguay, •'Wi&n, 1830. — 
Escilla Zunige : La Auracana, Poema Eroico, Madrid, 1733, fol — . — Ilavestadt: Cliilidugu, 
Monast. Westphal., 1777. — Lallemant: Histoire dela Colombie, Paris, 1826. — Molina: Saggio 
Sulla Storia Civile del Chile, Holo^na,, 1787. — Oua: Arauco Domado., Poema, Madrid, 
1605. — Ovalle: Historia del rey de Ctiile, Koma, 1648, fol. — . — Oviedo y Banos, Historia de 
la Conquista y Poblacion de la Provincia Venezuela, Madrid, 1723. — Revista Trimensal del 
Instituto Hist. Geog. e Ethnograpliico do Brasil, Rio de Jaueii'o. — Revista de Buenos Ayres, 
since 1863. — Smyth : The Auracanians, New York, 1855. — Ternaux-Compans : Notice His- 
toriguesurla ffuyune Francaise, Paris, 1843. — Tcssillo: Guerra de Chile, Madrid, 1617. 

* Dr. Ave Lallemant, of Lubeck, in a letter addressed to me,' January 27, 1866, on the 
primitive condition of the natives of Brazil, see further the instructive work, Os Indigenus 
do Brazil Perante a Historia, Rio de Janiero, 1859, by the learned and ingenious Portuguese 

Eoet, J. Magelhaes, residing at that time, as Brazilian minister, at Vienna; also that of V. 
I. Baril de la Hure, entitled Les Peuples du Bresil avant la Dcouverte de r Ameriqae. 



THE AMERICAN MIGRATION. 345 

and as we depart, either to the north or south, from the latitude assumed as the 
origin of the human race in Asia, we meet with a lower and lower type until at 
the north we encounter the Esquimaux, and at the south the Bosjesman and the 
Tierra Fuogian. The derivation of these varieties from the original stock is 
philosophically explained on the principle of the variety in the offspring of the 
same parents, and the better adaptation and consequent chance of life, of some of 
these to the new conditions of existence in a more northern or southern latitude. 
Furthermore, as the author has shown, the migrations on the American con- 
tinents have principally been from north to south, and it is an interesting fact, 
fully confirmed by tlie observations of the explorers of the route for the Russian 
American telegraph, that the waters of Bchring's Straits are frozen over prob- 
ably every year as late as April, and that intercourse, at present, is constant 
by means of canoes in summer between the Asiatic and American sides. ^ As 
another fact relating to the same question, we may state that, while the Asiatic 
projection near Bebring Straits is almost a sterile rocky waste, the opposite coast 
presents a much more inviting appearance, abounding in trees and shrubs. 
Moreover, the climate, when we pass southward of the peninsula of Alaska, is of 
a genial character, the temperature continuing nearly the same as far dowii as 
Oregon. The mildness of this temperature, and the descent of the isothermal line, 
or that of equal temperature along the coast, are due to the great current called 
the gulf stream of the Pacific, which carries the warm Avater of the equator along, 
the eastern coast of Asia, thence across to the opposite coast of America, and along 
the latter on its return to the equator. The action of this current, which does not 
appear to have been considered by the ethnologist, raust have had much influence 
in inducing and determining the course of the migrations. We may add to the 
foregoing that the present inhabitants of the countries contiguous to Behring's 
Straits on the two sides, in manners, customs, and physical appearance, are almost 
identical. J- H.j 



IJSTDIAJ^ POTTERY. 



BY CHAftLES RAU. 



Tn former times, when the aboriginal inhabitants of this country were still in 
possession of their own lands, and their mode of living had not been changed 
by the intrusion of the pale-faced Caucasian, the art of pottery was practised 
by them to a considerable extent. This branch of industry lost, however, much 
of its importance among the Indians so soon as they discovered the superiority 
of the vessels of metal, which they obtained in trafficking with the whites, and 
the durable kettle of iron or copper soon replaced the fragile and far less ser- 
viceable cooking utensil of clay. The beginning of the decline of this aborig- 
inal art is, therefore, of an early date, and at the present time it may be consid- 
ered as almost, if not entirely, extinct among the tribes still inhabiting the ter- 
ritory of the United States, excepting some in New Mexico and Arizona, who 
have not yet abandoned the manufacture of earthenware. As late as 1832, 
when Mr. Catlin visited the nations of the Upper Missouri, he found the Man- 
dans still diligently practising the ceramic art ; but the ravages of the small-pox 
have reduced their number to a few, and it is probable that vessels of clay arc 
no longer made in those regions. 

The Iroquois, of New York, those survivors of the once powerful Confedera- 
tion Avbo have escaped the fate of being driven toward the setting sun, and are 
still permitted to dwell upon their native soil, have ceased long ago to fabricate 
"earthen vessels. So I am informed by Dr. Peter Wilson, De-jih-non-da-weh- 
hoh, grand chief of the Six Nations of New York. " The manufacture of pot- 
tery," says my correspondent, " has long since been discontinued among our 
people ; like most other utensils, clay vessels have been superseded by utensils 
of the manufacture of the race who introduced among us the implements which 
are more durable and convenient. Such implements and other articles used 
among us only remain, or are being manufactured, as are not superseded by ar- 
ticles which the ingenuity of the pale face replaces." The same remark can 
probably be applied to the other tribes east of the Kocky Mountains. 

That the fabrication of earthenware was once carried to a great extent among 
the Indians, is shown by the great number of sherds which lie scattered over 
the sites of their former villages and on their camping places ; but they are, 
perhaps, nowhere in this country more numerous than in the " American Bot- 
tom," a strip of land which extends about one hundred miles along the Missis- 
sippi, in Illinois, and is bounded by the present bank of that river and its 
former eastern confine, indipated by a range of picturesque wooded hills and 
ridges, commonly called the " Bluffs." This bottom, which is on an average 
six miles wide and very fertile, was formerly the seat of a numerous indigenous 
population, and abounds in tumular works, cemeteries, and other memorials of 
the subdued race. Among the lesser relics left by the former occupants may 
be counted the remnants of broken vessels, which occur very abundantly in 
various places of this region. These fragments are, however, mostly small ; 
and, according to my experience, entire vessels are not found on the surface, 
but frequently in the ancient mounds and cemeteries, where they have been de- 
posited with the dead as receptacles for food, to serve on their journey to the 
happy land of spirits. 



INDIAN POTTERY. 347 

About six years ago, wliile living in the west, I was much gratified by the 
discovery of a place in the AroericiUi Bottom where the manufacture of earthen- 
ware was evidently carried on by the Indians. The locality to which I allude 
is the left bank of the Cahokia creek,* at the northern extremity of Illinois- 
town, opposite St. Louis. At the point just mentioned the bank of the creek is 
somewhat high and steep, leaving only a small space for a path along the water. 
When I passed there for the first time, I noticed, scattered over the slope or 
protruding from the ground, a great many pieces of pottery of much larger size 
than I had ever seen before, some being of the size of a man's hand, and others 
considerably larger ; and, upon examination, I found that they consisted of a 
grayish clay mixed with pounded shells. A gieat number of old shells of the 
unio, a bivalve which inhabits the creek, were lying about, and their position 
induced me to believe that they had been brought there by human agency 
rather than by tlie overflowing of the creek. My curiosity being excited, I 
continued my investigation, and discovered at the upper part of the bank an 
old fosse, or digging, of some length and depth, and overgrown with stramo- 
nium or jimson weed ; and upon entering this excavation, I saw near its bottom 
a layer of clay, identical in appearance with that which composed the fragments 
of pottery. The excavation had unmistakably been dug for the purpose of ob- 
taining the clay, and I became now convinced beyond doubt that the fabrica- 
tion of earthen 'vessels had been carried on by the aborigines at this very spot. 
All the requisites for manufacturing vessels were cm hand ; the layer of clay 
furnished tlic chief ingredient, and the creek not only supplied the water for 
moistening the clay, but harbored also the mollusks whose valves were used in 
tempering it. Wood abounded in the neighborhood. All these facts being as- 
certained, it was easy to account for the occurrence of the large fragments. 
Whenever pottery is made, some of the articles will crack during the process of 
burning, and this will happen more frequently when the method employed in 
that operation is of a rude and primitive character, as it doubtless was in the 
present c^se. The sherds found at this place may, therefore, with safety be 
considered as the remnants of vessels that were spoiled while in the fire, and 
thrown aside as objects unfit for use. 

I did not succeed in finding the traces of a kiln or fireplace, and it is proba- 
ble that the vessels were merely baked in an open fire, of which all vestiges 
have been swept away long ago. The occurrence of the broken pottery was 
confined to a comparatively small area along the bank, a space not exceeding 
fifty paces in length, as far as I can recollect. They were most numerous in- 
the proximity of the old digging, and at that place quite a number of them were 
taken out of the creek into which they had fallen from the bank. Farther up 
the creek I saw another excavation in the bank, of much smaller dimensions, 
and likewise dug for obtaining clay. Among the shells and sherds I noticed 
many flints which had obviously been fashioned to serve as cutting implements ; 
tliey were, perhaps, used in tracing the ornamenlal lines on the vessels or in 
smoothing their surfaces. 

I did not find a single complete vessel at this place, but a great variety of 
fragments, the shape of which enabled me to determine the outline of the uten- 
sils of which they originally formed parts. This was not a very diflScult matter, 

*This creek runs in a southwardly direction through Madison county and a part of St. 
Clair county, and empties into the Mississippi four miles below St. Louis, near the old 
French village of Cahokia. 



348 



INDIAN POTTERY. 



especially in cases when portions of tlie rim remained. Figures 1 and 2 rep- 
resent (in sections through the middle) the prevailing forms of the vessels 





The rim, it will be seen, is formed into a lip and turned over, in order to facili- 
tate suspension ; sometimes, however, it is cut off abruptly, as in Fig. 3. Some 
of the vessels — more especially the smaller ones — were provided with ears, like 
Fig. 4;* others had the outer rim set with conical projections or studs, both for 
convenience and ornament; and a few of the fragments exhibit very neatly in- 
dented or notched rims. In size these vessels varied considerably; some 
measured only a few inches through the middle, while the largest ones, to 
judge from the curvature of the rims, must have exceeded two feet in diameter. 
The bottom of the vessels mostly seems to have been rounded or convex. I 
found not a single flat bottom-piece. This, however, may be merely accidental, 
considering that flat-bottomed vessels were made by the Indians. The appear- 
ance of the fragments indicates that the earthenware was originally tolerably 
well burned, and the fracture exhibits in many instances a reddish color. But, 
as the art of glazing was unknown to the manufacturers, it is no wonder that 
the sherds, after having been imbedded for many years in the humid ground, or 
exposed to rain and the alternate action of a burning sun and a severe cold, are 
now somewhat brittle and fragile ; yet, even when new, this aboriginal earthen- 
ware must have been much inferior in compactness and hardness to the ordinary 
kind of European or American crockery. 

The thickness of the fragments varies from one-eighth to three-eighths of an 
inch, according to the size of the vessels, the largest being also the strongest in 
material. But in each piece the thickness is uniform in a remarkable degree ; 
the rims are perfectly circular, and the general regularity displayed in the work- 
manship of these vessels renders it almost difficult to believe that the manufac- 
turers were unacquainted with the use of the potter's wheel. Such, however, 
was the case. I have already mentioned that the clay used in the fabrication 
of this earthenware is mixed with coarsely pulverized unio-shells from the 
creek ; only a few of the smaller bowls or vases seem to consist of pure clay. 
The vessels were covered on the outside, and some even on both sides, with a 
thick coating of paint, either of a black, dark brown, or beautiful red color, and 



* I possess a small food vase of this shape, which was takeu out of an old Indian grave 
on the "Bluffs," near French village, six or seven miles east of Illiuoistown. It was, per- 
haps, made at the very place which I have described. 



INDIAN POTTERY. 



349 



in some fragments the latter still retains its original brightness. Only one 
color, however, was used in the painting of each article. It is evident that the 
coloring preceded the process of baking, and the surfaces thus coated are smooth 
and shining, the paint replacing to a certain extent the enamel produced by 
glazing. - , 

That the aboriginal potters on the Cahokia creek did not neglect the decorative 
art in their manufactures, is shown by the ornamental lines traced on the surface of 
their crockery. Tlie simplest form of ornamentation consists in straight lines run- 
ning around the vessel parallel to the rim ; but they employed also other combi- 
nations of lines, of which figures 5, 6, 7, and 8 are examples. In some instances 



^- 








the?«6f/(/e only was ornamented. The lines are mostly drawn with great regularity, 
and sometimes one-eighth of an inch wide, with a corresponding depth. I obtained, 
however, from the deposit at the Cahokia creek one small fragment, which ex- 
hibits a much higher degree of skill in the art of decoration than any of the others 







found at the same place. Figure 9 represents it in full 
size. This specimen is about three-sixteenths of an 
inch thick, and consists of clay with an admixtxire of 
pulverized granite, the components of which — quartz, 
feldspar, and mica — can be plainly distinguished in 
the fracture. It is well baked and of a light-gray 
color. The ornamental lines and notches are im- 
pressed, or, perhaps, scooped out, with the greatest 
accuracy, and the vessel, when complete, must have 
presented a very good specimen of aboriginal ceramic 
art. Whoever compares the annexed drawing with 
Fig. 5 on Plate 46 of the " Ancient Monuments of the 
Mississippi Valley," by Squier and Davis, will find 
that the originals of the representations are nearly alike in point of ornamenta- 
tion. The latter drawing delineates a part of a vase found in one of the an- 
cient mounds of Ohio. Having seen the best specimens of " mound " pottery 
obtained during the survey of Messrs. Squier and Davis, I do not hesitate to 
assert that the clay vessels fabricated at the Cahokia creek were in every re- 
spect equal to those exhumed from the mounds of the Mississippi valley, and 
Dr. Davis himself, who examined my specimens from the first-named locality, 
expressed the same opinion. 




.^j3 



350 INDIAN POTTEEY 

One of the metliods employed hy the Indians in the manufacture of earthen- 
ware was, to weave baskets of rushes or willows, similar in shape to the vessels 
they intended to make, and to coat the inside of these baskets with clay to the 
required thickness ; the baskets, 'after being destroyed by the fire, left on the 
outer surface of the vessels peculiar impressions, resembling basket-work, which 
produce a very pleasing effect, and replace ornamentation to a certain extent* 

With this method the potters on the Cahokia creek were likewise acquainted, 
for I found a few pieces of their ware bearing the marks just mentioned. This 
sort of pottery, however, is not mixed with pounded shells, but with sand, and 
is much better baked than the other kind; it has a pale-reddish appearance, 
and is not painted. 

Lastly, I have to enumerate among the objects of baked clay obtained from 
the deposit in the American Bottom, two articles resembling the beaks of large 
birds, perhaps detached pot or pan handles; a flat piece, forming the base of the 
figure of some animal, of which, unfortunately, the tail only remains, and the 
remnant of a toy canoe. The last-named specimen, probably made by some 
affectionate Indian mother for her little son, was piqked up from the bottom of 
the creek. 

The question now arises, who were the makers of these manufactures of clay? 
I sinjply ascribe them to the Cahokia Indians, who dwelt, until a comparatively 
recent period, on the banks of the creek that still bears the name of their tribe. 
Concerning the antiquity of the manufactures described on the preceding pages, 
I am not prepared to give an estimate. Only a hundred years may have elapsed 
since they were made, yet it is also possible thnt they are much older. The 
appearance of the fragments rather indicates a modern origin. 

The writings of early, and even comparatively modern, authors on North 
America are not deficient in particulars relating to the art of pottery among the 
natives. According tp their statements, those tribes were most advanced in the 
manufacture of earthenware, who inhabited the large tracts of land formerly 
called Florida and Louisiana, which comprise at present the southern and south- 
western States of the Union; and their testimony is fully corroborated by the 
character of such specimens of pottery from those parts as have escaped destruc- 
tion, and are preserved in the collections of the country.t The Natchez, on the 
Lower Mississippi, perhaps the most civilized among the North American Indians, 
and supposed to be related to the Aztecs, were skilful potters. So we are told 
by the anonymous Portuguese gentleman called the "Knight of Elvas," who 
accompanied, towards the middle of the sixteenth century, De Soto on his ad- 
venturous expedition through a great portion of the North American continent, 
and became afterwards the chronicler of that bold Spaniard's exploits. In the 
province of Naguatex, he states, clay vessels were made "which differed very 
little from those of Estremoz or Montemor." These two towns in Portugal are 
noted for their earthenware.| Du Pratz mentions the "Ecore Blanc," on the 

* Bartram describes a vessel of this kind whicli he extracted from a shell-mound on one of 
the islands near the coast of Georgia. — Bartram's Travels, Dublin, 1793, p. 6. 

t "In some of the southern States, it is said, the kilns in which the aucient pottery was 
baked are now occasionally to be met with. Some are represented still to contain the ware, 
partially burned, and retaining the rinds of the gourds, &c., over which they were modelled, 
and which had not been entirely removed by the fire. In Panola county, Mississippi, are 
found great numbers of what are termed pottery kilns, in which are masses of vitrified matter, 
frequently in the form of rude bricks, measuring twelve inches in length by ten in breadth. 
It seems most likely that these kilns are the remains of the manufac.ories of the later tribes — 
the Choctaws and Natchez — 'who,' says Adair, 'made a prodigious number of vessels of 
pottery, of such variety of forms as would be tedious to describe and impossible to name.' "-!- 
Ancient Monuments of t lie Mississippi Valley, Washington, 1848, p. 195. 

t Virginia Richly Valued, by the Description of the Maine Land of Florida, her next Neigh- 
bour, &c. Written by a Portugall Gentleman of Eluas, emploied in all the Action, and 
translated out of the Portugese by Richard Haklvyt, London, 1609, (reprint of J812, Sup- 
plement, ) p. 750. 



I^fDIAN POTTERY. 351 

Mississippi, as one of the localities where the Natchez ohtained clay for their 
pottery, and likewise oclire to paint it. "When coated with ochre," he says, 
" it becomes red after the burning." Elsewhere, in speaking of the manufacture 
of clay vessels by the natives of Louisiana, the same author remarks : "The 
women make pots of an extraordinary size, jars with a small opening, bowls, 
two-pint bottles with long necks, pots or jugs for preserving bear oil, holding 
as much as forty pints, and, finally, plates and dishes in the French fashion."* 

Dumont, who likewise dcBcribes the manners of the people inhabiting the ex- 
tensive country formerly called Louisiana, has left a more minute account of the 
method they employed in making earthenware. He says : "After having amassed 
the proper kind of clay and carefully cleaned it, the Lidian women take shells 
which they pound and reduce to a fine powder; they mix this powder with the 
•clay, and having poured some water on the mass, they knead it with their hands 
and feet, and make it into a paste, of which they form rolls six or seven feet 
long and of a thickness suitable to their purpose. If they intend to fashion a 
plate or a vase, they take hold of one of these rolls by the end, and fixing here 
with tl;e thumb of the left hand the centre of the vessel they are about to make, 
they turn the roll with astonishing quickness around this centre, describing a 
spiral line; now and then they dip their fingers into water and smooth with the 
right hand the inner and outer surface of the vase they intend to fashion, which 
would become ruffled or undulated without that manipulation. In this maimer 
they make all sorts of earthen vessels, plates, dishes, bowls, pots, and jars, 
some of which hold from forty to fifty pints. The burning of this pottery does 
not cause ihem much trouble. Having dried it in the shade, they kindle a large 
fire, and when they have a sufficient quantity of embers, they clean a space in 
the middle, where they deposit their vessels and cover them with charcoal. 
Thus they bake their earthenware, which can now be exposed to the fire, and 
possesses as much durability as ours. Its solidity is doubtless to be attributed 
to the pulverized shells which the women mix with the clay."t 

Adair, more than a century ago a trader with the tribes who occupied the 
southern portion of the present Union, confines himself to the following remarks : 

" They make earthen pots of very different sizes, so as to contain from two to 
ten gallons; large pitchers to carry water; bowls, dishes, platters, basins, and 
a prodigious number of other vessels of such autiquated forms as would be te- 
dious to describe and impossible to name. Their method of glazing them 
is, they place them over a large fire of smoky pitch-pine, which makes them 
smooth, black, and firm. Their lands abound with proper clay for that use.".j: 

Losklcl, who describes the manners of the Delawares and Iroquois, states 
that they made formerly kettles and cooking-pots of clay, which they mixed 
with finely pounded shells, and burned until they became black throughout. 
Quite large pieces of their pots, he says, in which the pounded shells could still 
be seen, were often found in such places where the Indians had dwelt in ancient 
times ; but after the arrival of the Europeans very light kettles of brass had 
generally been introduced among them.§ Thus we see that these tribes began 
at an early period to neglect the manufacture of clay vessels. 

A very good account relating to the art of pottery, as formerly practised by 
the western tribes, is given by Hunter. "In manufacturing their pottery for 
cooking and domestic purposes," he says, "they collect tough clay, beat it into 
powder, temper it with water, and then spread it over blocks of wood, which 
have been formed into shapes to suit their convenience or fancy. When suffi- 
ciently dried, they are removed from the moulds, placed in proper situations, 

* Du Pratz, Histoire de la Louisiane, Paris, 1758, vol. i, p. 124, and vol. ii, p. 1T9. 
t Dumont Mimoires Historiqucs sur la Louisiane, Paris, 1753, vol. ii, p. ~71, &c. 
X Adair's History of the American Indians, London, 1775, p. 424. 

§ Loskiel, Gescbicbte der Mission der evaugelischen Briider unter deu Indiancrn in Nord- 
Amerika, Barby, 1789, p. 70. ,, 



352 



INDIAN POTTERY. 



and burned to a hardness suitable to their intended uses. Another method 
practised by them is, to coat the inner surface of baskets made of rushes or wil- 
lows with clay, to any required thickness, and when dry, to burn them as 
above described. In this way they construct large, handsome, and tolerably 
durable ware ; though latterly, with such tribes as have much intercourse with 
the whites, it is not much used, because of the substitution of cast-iron ware in 
its stead." 

"When these vessels are large, as is the case for the manufactiire of sugar, 
they are suspended by grape-vines, which, wherever exposed to the fire, are 
constantly kept covered with moist clay. Sometimes, however, the rims are 
made strong, and project a little inwardly quite round the vessel so as to admit 
of their being sustained by flattened pieces of wood slid underneath these pro- 
jections and extending across their centres."* 

Lastly, I will quote here the remarks made by Catlin relating to the fabrica- 
tion of earthenware among the Mandans. " Earthen dishes or bowls are a familiar 
part of the culinary furniture of every Mandan lodge, and are manufactured by 
the women of this tribe in great quantities, and modelled into a thousand 
forms and tastes. They are made from a tough black clay and baked in kilns 
which are made for the purpose, and are nearly equal in hardness to our own 
manufacture of pottery, though they have not yet got the art of glazing, which 
would be to them a most valuable secret. They make them so strong and ser- 
viceable, however, that they hang them over the fire, as we do our iron pots, 
and boil their meat in them witli perfect success. I have seen some few speci- 
mens of such manufacture, which have been dug up in Indian mounds and tombs 
in the southern and middle States, placed in our eastern museums and looked 
upon as a great wonder, when here this novelty is at once done away with, and 
the whole mystery; where women can be- seen handling and using them by 
hundreds, and they can be seen every day in the summer also, moulding them 
into many fanciful forms, and passing them through the kilns where they are 
hardened."! 

The largest vessels made by the Indians, it seems, were those used in pro- 
curing salt by evaporation near salt springs. Du. Pratz mentions a locality in 
Louisiana where the aborigines collected salt in earthen vessels made on the spot, 
before they had been supplied with kettles of metal by the French, | The 
•'Knight of Elvas" likewise describes the method of salt-making employed by 
the natives. " The saline below St. Genevieve, Missouri," says Brackenridge, 
" cleared out some time ago and deepened, was found to contain wagon loads of 
earthenware, some fragments bespeaking vessels as large as a barrel, and prov- 
ing that the salines had been worked before they were known to the whites. "§ 
I had occasion to examine a fragment of a vessel of this kind sent to Dr.- 
Davis in 1859 by Mr. George E. Sellers, who obtained it at the salt springs 
near Saline river, in southern Illinois, a locality where salt was formerly made 
by the Indians. Several acres, Mr. Sellers states, are covered with broken ves- 
sels, and heaps of clay and shells indicate that they were made on the spot. 
They presented the shape of semi-globular bowls with projecting rims, and 
measured from thirty inches to four feet across the rim, the thickness varying 
from one-half to three-quarters of an inch. This earthenware had evidently 
been modelled in baskets. The fragment sent to Dr. Davis is a rim-piece three- 
quarters of an inch thick, consisting of three distinct layers of yellowish clay, 
mixed with very coarsely pounded shells. It is solid and heavy, and must have 
been tolerably well baked. The impressions on the outside are very regular 

* Hunter's Manners and Customs of several Indian tribes located west of the Mississippi, 
Philadelphia, 1823, p. 296, &c. 

t Catlings North American Indians, London, 1848, vol. i, p. 116. 

t Du Pratz, vol. i, p. 307. 

§ Brackenridge, Yiews of Louisiana, Pittsburg', 1814, p. 186. 



INDIAN POTTERY. 353 

and really ornamental, proving tLat those aboriginal potters were also skilful 
basket-makers. 

It would be erroneous to suppose the art of manufacturing clay vessels had 
been in use among all the tribes spread over this widely extended country ; for, 
though exhibiting much general similarity in character and habits, they differed 
considerably in their attainments in the mechanical arts. This was the conse- 
quence of local circumstances, such as configuration and quality of the soil, 
climate, and other natural conditions which influenced, or rather determined their 
mode of life. Some of the North American tribes, who did not understand the 
fabrication of earthen vessels, were in the habit of cooking their meat in water 
set to boiling by means of heated stones which they put into it, the receptacles 
used in this operation being large wooden bowls, water-tight baskets, or even 
the raw hides of animals they had killed. The Assinaboins, for example, cooked 
in skins. '' There is a very curious custom among the Assinaboins," says Catlm, 
" from which they have taken their name — a name given them by their neigh- 
bors from a singular mode they have of boiling their meat, which is done in the 
following manner : Whin they kill meat, a hole is dug in the ground about the 
size of a common pot, and a piece of the raAV hide of the animal, as taken from 
the back, is put over the hole, and then pressed down with the hands close 
around the sides, and filled with water. The meat to be boiled is then put in 
this hole or pot of water; and in a fire, which is built near by, several large 
stones are heated to a red heat, which are successively dipped and held in the 
water until the meat is boiled ; from which singular and peculiar custom, the 
Ojibways have given them the appellation of Assinaboins or Stone-boilers." 

" This custom," he continues, " is a very awkward and tedious one, and used 
only as an ingenious means of boiling their meat, by a tribe who was too rude 
and ignorant to construct a kettle or pot. The traders have recently supplied 
these people with pots ; and even long before that, the Mandans had instructed 
them in the secret of manufacturing very good and serviceable earthen pots, 
which together have entirely done away the custom, excepting at public festi- 
vals, where they seem, like all others of the human family, to take pleasure in 
cherishing and perpetuating their ancient customs."* Yet, the Assinaboins 
may, nevertheless, have been acquainted with the art of pottery ; for they are a 
detached branch of the Dacotahs, probably of the Yankton band of that nation, 
and we have the testimony of Carver, for instance, that the Naudowessies — that 
is, the Dacotahs or Sioux — made " pots of clay, in which they boiled their 
victuals."! 

Some of the tribes of New Mexico and Arizona, as, for example, the Mojaves 
and Pimas, still manufacture pottery ; but the Pueblo Indians of those districts 
are especially noted for their fictile fabrics. *' They manufacture, according to 
their aboriginal art, both for their own consumption and for the purposes of 
traffic, a species of earthenware not much inferior to the coarse crockery of our 
common potters. The pots made of this material stand fire remarkably well, 
and are the universal substitutes for all the purposes of cookery, even among the 
Mexicans, for the iron castings of this country, which are utterly unknown 
there. Rude as this kind of crockery is, it nevertheless evinces a great deal of 
skdl, considering that it is made entirely without lathe or any kind of machniery. 
It is often fancifully painted with colored earths and the juice of a plant called 
guaco, which brightens by burning.";): 

Speaking of that region, I must not omit to allude, at least, to the numerous 
fragments of ancient pottery which occur on the Little Colorado. Colorado Chi- 
quito, and Gila, especially among ruins, and are often highly decorated and 
painted with various colors, exhibiting a style of workmanship differing from 

* Catlin, vol. i, p. 54. 

tCarrer's Travels, London, 1781, Harper's Reprint, p. 154. 

t Gregg's Commerce of the Prairies, Philudolphia, ItSl, vol. i, p. 278. 

^3 s 66 



354 INDIAN POTTEEY, 

and surpassing that which prevailed on the eastern side of the Rocky Mountains. 
Descriptions of these relics, however, would exceed the intended limits of this 
essay, and, moreover, they have been given elsewhere, together with specula- 
tions concerning the character of the manufacturers.* 

Some years ago, while visiting northern Europe, I had occasion to see many 
specimens of ancient pottery deposited in the archaeological collections of that 
district, and having previously become acquainted with the character of North 
American aboriginal pottery, it afforded me great pleasure to trace the similarity 
in the fictile manufactures of .both continents. Where the external conditions 
of life were similar amono; men, their inventive powers were necessarily exerted 
in a similar manner. We have the testimony of Tacitus, that the inhabitants 
of Germany lived, about two thousand years ago, much in the manner of the 
North American Indians, before the original habits of the latter had undergone 
the changes resulting from their intercourse with Europeans or their descend- 
ants ; and it is, therefore, quite natural that both races should have resorted to 
the same, or, at least, similar means to satisfy their wants. The ancient flint 
implements of northern Europe bear a close resemblance to those formerly made 
by the natives of this country, and a like conformity is exhibited in the character 
of their manufactures of clay. 

The aborigines of North America, to recapitulate the general characteristics 
of their pottery, formed their vessels by hand, modelling them sometimes in 
baskets, and were, as far as we know, unacquainted with the art of glazing. 
They mixed the clay used in their pottery either with pounded shells or sand, 
or with pulverized silicious rocks ; mica also formed sometimes a part of the 
composition. Their vessels were often painted with ochre, producing various 
shades, from a light yellow to a dark brown, or with a black color. They deco- 
rated their pottery with lines or combinations of lines and dots, and embellished 
it also by notching the rims, or surrounding them on the outside with studs, or 
in various other ways. Their vessels exhibited a great variety of forms and 
sizes, and many of them had rounded or convex bottoms. They hardened their 
earthenware in open fires or in kilns, and notwithstanding the favorable state- 
ments of some authors, it was much inferior in compactness to the common 
crockery manufactured at present in Europe or America, and has even, in some 
instances, an appearance as though it had merely been dried in the sun. 

The same details, somewhat modified, are applicable to the specimens of an- 
cient pottery preserved in the museums of northern Germany, and frequently 
obtained from ancient burial places, where they had been placed by the side of 
the dead, or as receptacles of their ashes. Many of these vessels were evidently 
fashioned by hand ; but others, especially the larger ones, bear the unmistakable 
traces of the lathe, the use of which was, perhaps, known to the German tribes 
before they had intercourse with the Romans. The clay composing these ves- 
sels is strongly mixed with quartz sand, to which very frequently mica is added, 
probably with a view to impart more solidity to the mass. Ancient German clay 
vessels, after being exhumed, are soft and so fragile that a somewhat rough 
handling destroys them at once. The roots of trees and shrubs have often 
grown through those that are dug up in woods, which obviously shows that they 
were not sufficiently burned ; for well-burned clay, like that composing the pipes 
of Roman aqueducts and the bricks of the middle age, resists humidity even 
better than many kinds of stone. When exposed to the air, these vessels be- 
come tolerably hard within a few hours ; but in rare instances only they have 
that peculiar ring which characterizes well-burned earthenware. It seems, there- 
fore, that they were not burned in kilns, but merely in strong open fires. t Many 

* The reader is referred to an excellent chapter by Mr. T/iomas Eicbank, entitled "Illus- 
trations of Indian Antiquities and Arts," in the third volume of Pacific Eailroad Reports, 
Washington, 1856. 

t Klemm, Germanische Alterthumskunde, Dresden, 1 836, p. 167. 



INDIAN POTTERY. 355 

of tbe nrns are painted with yellow or red earths, or a black color, the latter pig- 
ment being sulphuret of molybdenum. May not the same substance, which 
occurs in many localities of the United States, have been used by the Indians 
for blackening their pottery ? An analysis would easily decide the question. 
The same parallel and zigzag lines, or rows of dots, which decorate Indian ves- 
sels, are also seen on the ancient pottery of the north of Europe, and of other 
parts of that continent. They constitute the simplest elements of ornamentation, 
and have, therefere, everywhere been employed by man when he made his first 
attempts in the art of decoration. On the surface of a few ancient vases or urns 
found in Germany I noticed those markings which present the appearance of 
basket-work ; I was, however, in doubt whether they were impressions pro- 
duced by the inside of baskets, or simply ornamental lines traced on the wet 
clay. Yet, even in the latter case, it would seem that this kind of ornamenta- 
tion was suggested by the former practice of modelling vessels in baskets. I 
further saw some apparently very old specimens of pottery with rounded bot- 
toms. The oldest vessels ot all nations, who practised the potter's art, probably 
exhibited that shape, the model of which was furnished by nature in the gourd 
and other fruits presenting rounded outlines. A flat bottom, therefore, would 
denote a progress in the ceramic art. Other particular features common to the 
pottery of both, the ancient inhabitants of Germany and the aborigines of North 
America, might be pointed out ; but the fictile fabrics of the former exhibit, on 
the whole, more elegance of outline, and therefore indicate a higher state of art. 
The similarity in the manufactures of men in various climates is greatest when 
art is in its very infancy among them. In the course of gradual development, 
the primitive forms common to mankind become more and more indistinct, and 
finally emerge into those varied and characteristic shapes which reflect the in- 
diyiduality of nations. 



ARTIFICIAL SHELL DEPOSITS OF THE UNITED 

STATES. 



BY D. G. BRINTON, M. D., OF WEST CHESTER, PA 



In the annual Smithsonian report for 1864, (pp. 370-374,) a description is 
given of an artificial shell deposit in Monmouth county, New Jersey. As this 
branch of American Archneology is of importance to both geologists and antiqua- 
rians, the following notes upon it may be of value to the students of each of these 
sciences. The exclusively artificial character of many of these deposits, even 
of very considerable size, was first prominently brought before the scientific 
public by Mr. Lardner Vanuxem, in the proceedings of the American Association 
of Geologists and Naturalists for lS40-'42, (pp. 21-23.) The existence of 
enormous accumulations of the shellii of the Ostrea virginica and Ven/us mer- 
cenaria on the shores of the Chesapeake and its affluent streams, on the Jersey 
shore and Long Island, was discussed, and various proofs of their formation by 
the aboriginal tribes pointed out. These proofs may be briefly summed up as 
follows : First. Valves of the same animal are rarely found together. Second. 
Arrow-heads, fragnients of pottery, and charcoal are mixed with the shells in 
situ naturali. Third. The shells are broken, and frequently charred. Fourth. The 
substratum of the deposit is the same as the surrounding soil. Fifth. The deposits 
are at the mouth and shores of water-courses, where the shell-fish abound. 
Sixth. There is an absence of stratification and older fossils. 

It seems hardly necessary to adduce evidence from the old voyagers to show 
that in the commissariat of the native coast tribes esculent shell-fish constituted 
an important item. Cabeza de Vaca describes the accolents of the Gulf of 
Mexico as dwelling in houses of mats, " built on heaps of oyster shells," (Ra- 
musio Viaggi, torn. Ill, fol. 317,) and the first settlers of Maryland record, 
with pleasurable recollections, the " oisters, broil'd and stewed," that the sav- 
ages offered them in profusion. — (Relation of Maryland, 1634, p. 18, in Shea's 
Southern Tracts.) 

By far the majority of these monuments of a past race are mere refuse heaps, 
the debris of villages of an icthyophagous population, showing no indications 
of having been designedly collected in heaps, true analogues of the kjoekken- 
moeddings of the age of stone ; but in other instances it would appear that the 
Indians collected them into artificial mounds, forming a class of antiquities here- 
tofore unnoticed by archaeologists. They are found in great numbers along the 
southern coast, especially in Georgia and Florida, where I have examined many 
of them. At the landing of Fernandina, on Amelia island, the summit of the 
bluff is covered with a layer of artificially deposited shells, extending about 
two hundred yards upon the bay and one-fourth of a mile inland, varying in 
depth from one to four feet. The shells are in many places so rotten as to fall 
to pieces at the touch, some showing fractures made at the edges, as if in opening, 
while others have obviously been subjected to the action of fire. Charcoal, bones 
of fish and animals, and arrow-heads are scattered irregularly through the mass. 
This is the general character of many such deposits that I have examined in 
other parts of the peninsula of Florida ; for instance, on both banks of the St. 
John's, at its mouth, on Anastasia island, opposite St. Augustine, on the Manatee 



ARTIFICIAL SHELL DEPOSITS OF THE UNITED STATES. 357 

river, and ilong the shores of Tampa bay. The two most remarkable in the 
State are near New Smyrna, on the Mosquito lagoon, and near the mouth of the 
Crystal river, on the Gulf coast. Of the first of tliese I have a description 
written by a gentleman of intelligence resident on the spot, and of the second a 
report of an investigation made by the State geologist of Florida, Mv. F. L. 
Dancy, to whom I am also indebted for the former account. That near New 
Smyrna, called Turtle mound, is, says my informant, " thirty feet high, com- 
posed almost altogether of separate oyster shells, it being rare to find the two 
valves together. There Jire, also, conch and clam shells, both of which are, 
however, exceedingly scarce. That it is artificial there is no doubt on my mind. 
Some eight or ten years since we experienced a gale in this section of country 
Avhich caused that portion of the mound facing the river, the steepest part, to 
fall and be washed away. Being there a few days afterwards, I took consid- 
erable pains to examine the face of it, and found, as low as the bottom and as 
high up as I could observe, numberless pieces of Indian potteiy and quantities 
of bones, principally of fish, but no human ones ; also charcoal and beds of 
ashes. The one on which I reside, opposite New Smyrna, is precisely of the same 
formation. Having had occasion some time back to dig a hole into it six or eight 
feet deep, I found precisely the same contents that I have described at Turtle 
mound, with the addition of some few flint arrow-heads." Of the remarkable 
mound on Crystal river, four miles from its mouth, Mr. Dancy writes : '* The 
marsh of the river at that point is twenty yards wide to the firm land, at which 
point this mound commences to rise. It is on all sides nearly pei'pf'ndicular, the 
faces covered with brush and trees, to which the visitors have to cling to effect 
an ascent. It is about forty feet in height, the top surface nearly level, about 
thirty fet- 1 in diameter, and covered with magnolia, live oak, and other forest 
trees, some of them four feet in diameter. Its form is that of a truncated cone, 
and, as far as can be judged from external appearance, it is composed exclusively 
of oyster shells and vegetable mould. These shells are all separated. The 
mound was evidently thrown up by the Indians for a lookout, as the gulf can 
be distinctly seen from its summit. There are no oysters growing at this time 
within four or five miles of it." This is evidently altogether different from the 
mere refuse heaps referred to elsewhere. 

On both banks of the St. John's river, as far south as Lake Harney, the 
traveller finds shell bluffs, sometimes closely simulating artificial erections, quite 
regular in outline, not unfrequently twenty-five or thirty feet high. They are 
composed almost exclusively of the helix, with a few unios. The Brock House 
at Enterprise is budt upon such a natural deposit, and south of it, between the 
large and small sulphur springs, some two hundred yards from the lake, there is 
another, and a third on the left bank, near the exit of Lake Harney, about a 
quarter of a mile from a very large and ancient Indian mound. The native 
tribes chose the shell bluffs of natural formation as favorite burial spots, and hence 
ancient relics are constantly found in them, but a practiced eye can readily 
detect the disturbance of the natural deposition of the shells. This is strikingly 
exemplified in the shell bluffs on. Tampa bay, at the mouth of Manatee river, com- 
posed chiefly of a species of Pi/rula. The sea face has been washed away, and 
the ancient graves, containing bones, charcoal, and unbroken utensils are dis- 
tinctly seen cutting through the clean, original strata. On the contrary, in the 
refuse shell-heaps human b(»ues are never seen, and very rarely unbroken arrow- 
heads or pottery. 

While attached to the army of the Cumberland, during the late rebellion, I 
had abundant opportunity of ascertaining the prevalence of shell-heaps along 
the Tennessee river and its tributaries. They are very frequent at and above 
the Muscle Shoals, and are composed almost exclusively of the shells of the fresh- 
water muscle, ( Unio virginiana, La?fiarckl) Close to the famous Nick-a-jack 
cave is the railway station of Shellmound, so called from an uncommonly large 



358 ARTIFICIAL SHELL DEPOSITS OF THE UNITED STATES. 

deposit of shells, probably left by the Cherokees, who so long used this spot as 
one of the headquarters of the Overhill tribes. It was taken by our troops as a 
military post, and embankments thrown up around the summit of the mound. 
The excavations made for this purpose abundantly proved its wholly artificial 
origin. In all instances I found the shell-heaps close to the water courses, on 
the rich alluvial bottom lands. The mollusks had evidently been opened by 
placing them on a fire. The Tennessee muscle is margaratiferous, and there is 
no doubt but that it was from this species that the early tribes obtained the hoards 
of pearls which the historians of De Soto's exploration estimated by bushels, and 
which were so much prized as ornaments. ( See Irving, Conquest of Florida, p. 
246.) It is still a profitable employment, the jewellers buying them at prices 
varying from one to fifty dollars. 

The great size of some of these accumulations may furnish some conception 
of the length of time required for their gradual accretion, and consequently of the 
period during which these shores have been inhabited. That at the mouth of 
the Altamaha river covers ten acres of ground, and contains about 80,000 cubic 
yards. Many of them equal in cubical contents the largest ihounds of the Ohio 
valley. That at the mouth of the Pickasvaxent creek, eighty miles from Wash- 
ington, is so considerable that a kiln was erected many years since for the pur- 
pose of burning the shells into lime, and may be still in operation. On account 
of their occasional very considerable magnitude, some geologists have been in- 
clined to deny or discredit their artificial origin, and have pointed to the ex- 
istence of similar deposits presenting indubitable characteristics of lacustrine and 
litoral formation, such as the oyster-shell heaps of southern New Jersey, (see 
Second Annual Keport of the Geological Survey of New Jersey, pp. 76, 84,) and 
the beds of Chiathodnn cuneatus at Mobile harbor, (American Journal Science, 
second series, vol. xi, p. 164,) but the distinctions I have pointed out will dispel 
any doubt upon this subject. 

In estimating the comparative archseological value of these monuments of the 
aboriginal tribes, with a view to ascertain the amount of light they may be ex- 
pected to throw on the habits and social condition of their constructors, we must 
place them far below the similar remains in the north of Europe. These latter 
reveal to us a race of whom we possess few or no other memorials, and are a 
principal source of information concerning nations whose very existence was 
forgotten; but my somewhat extended studies of this class of American antiquities 
convince me that they are the work of known tribes of Indians concerning whom 
we possess many and superior sources of information, and that they only serve 
to illustrate and confirm the knowledge we already have of their social status 
and means of subsistence. 



SKETCH OF ANCIENT EARTHWORKS. 



BY I. DILLE, OF OHIO. 



The archaeological remains of the Mississippi valley, traced from the lakes 
south and southwesterly, exhibit a progressive change of structure and outline 
from the most simple to the most complicated. At the mouth of Chagrin river, 
on Lake Erie, a bold promontory is surrounded by a fosse and parapet, which 
were obviously intended for defence. The choice of the site and the character 
of the structure are such as a military leader of a rude people would be likely 
to adopt. From the lake to central Ohio the ancient remains are exclusively of 
a defensive or of a sepulchral character, and no mystery attaches to the purpose 
for which they were intended. Still further north, on the southern shore of 
Lake Superior, the working of the copper mines, with extensive explorations, 
leaves us in no doubt as to the object of the copper implements and ornaments 
found all over that country. Nothing has been observed which indicates that 
the makers understood the fusing of metals, or of casting them into desired forms. 
With the exception of the bowl of a spoon, found in the great mound at Grave 
creek, on the Ohio, and of doubtful origin, no useful article is known to have 
been made of copper by the ancient people. This metal was probably regarded 
as a malleable and durable stone, to which could be given any desired form by tlie 
hammer alone, and its use was ornamental, or connected with official or sacerdotal 
dignity. 

But there is a large class of antiquities, comprising fully four-fifths of all 
these remains found from central Ohio southward and westward, east of the 
Mississippi, that we cannot refer to any purpose or use of any races of men, or 
of their institutions, religious, political, or social. 

Of this class the ancient works in the vicinity of Newark, Ohio, are the most 
easterly and northerly. The great extent and variety of these works in Lick- 
ing and Perry counties show clearly that this section of country contained a 
large and industrious population. Sepulchral mounds, differing in form and 
height, abound everywhere, and are especially numerous in the southeastern 
part of Licking and northeastern part of Perry. 

The great stone mound about eight miles south of Newark, and about one 
mile east of the reservoir on the Licking summit of the Ohio canal, was one of 
the most remarkable structures in the State. It was composed of stones, in their 
natural shape, as they were found on the adjacent grounds, laid up, without ce- 
ment, to the height of from 40 to 50 feet, iipon a circular base of 182 feet diam- 
eter. This was surrounded by a low fosse, and parapet of an ovate form, with 
a gateway on the east end, leaving a large open area on the west end of the 
mound, within the enclosure. In the early settlement of this part of the State 
the old pioneers say this mound was a great resort for rattlesnakes; and it is 
told of an old woman who lived near by, that in the spring of the year she used 
to rake up the forest leaves around the toot of the mound, and when the weather 
became warm enough for the snakes to come out to bask in the sun she would 
set fire to the leaves, which so infuriated the snakes that they would, in their 
madness, rush into the fire and perish. 

When the canal reservoir, which is seven or eight miles long, was made, it 



360 SKETCH OF ANCIENT EARTHWORKS 

was deemed necessary to protect the east bank from abrasion with stone, so that 
it might be used for the purposes of navigation by tow-boars. The nearest 
stones available for this purpose were those of the great mound. During the years 
1831-'32 from 50 to 75 teams were employed in removing this mass of material. 
It is said that from 10,000 to 15,000 wagon loads were carried away. As the 
workmen approached the base of the mound they discovered 15 or 16 small 
earthmovmds around or near the circumference of the base, and a similar one in 
the centre. Nothing else was noticed worthy of attention, as was then thought, 
and the small mounds were levelled to the ground. • 

No further examination was made into any of these mounds until about 1850, 
when some of the farmers in the vicinity devoted a part of a day to an explora- 
tion of them, They opened two which were not covered by the rubbish. In 
one they found human bones, with some fluviatile shells, and in the other they 
dug down to a hard, white fire-clay. Two or three feet below the surface of 
this they came to a trough sirpilar to those formerly made in the west for feed- 
ing pigs, by hollowing out a log. This was overlaid by small logs of wood to 
serve as a cover, and in it was found the skeleton of a man, around which appeared 
the impression of a coarse cloth. Within this trough were fifteen copper rings 
and a breastplate of the same metal. The wood of the trough and covering was 
in a state of good preservation. The clay which environed it was not only im- 
pervious to air, but also to water. Satisfied with their discovery, the explorers 
covered up the ancient coflSn, and all remained undisturbed until the summer of 
1860, when the Jate David Wyrick, with the aid of two or three men, raised the 
rude ccffin with its covering of logs and brought them to town. The small round 
logs that overlaid this sarcophagus were so well preserved that the ends showed 
the axe marks, and the steepness of the kerf seemed to indicate that some instru- 
ment sharper than the stone axe, found throughout the west, had been employed 
to cut them. The woody fibre of the coffin remained firm, but the annulars were 
partially separated, so as to be split apart. 

In the following November Mr. Wyrick, with five other men, met at this 
spot and made further exploration into this mound. They found several arti- 
cles of stone, among which was a stone box enclosing an engraved tablet in un- 
known characters; a mortar, made of the fine-grained sandstone of the country; 
and several neatly-worked stones, similar to a mason's plumb bob. The en- 
graved stone has given rise to much speculation as to its origin and significa- 
tion, with much division of opinion. 

The central mound in the base of the large stone mound was opened in the 
presence of the writer of this article. A great number of human bones were 
found in it, but no other relics worthy of note. These bones were all deposited 
in, or covered by, the humus peat fi om the adjacent swamp, now covered by 
the reservoir. It is remarkable that all of those mounds which have been ex- 
plored contained earth from a distance. The pipe or fire clay is found in place 
at Flint Ridge, six or eight miles distant, and none of that peculiar variety is 
known in place nearer. This ancient work we know was for burial use, but 
we know not what faith or what personal distinction induced the construction of 
a mausoleum of so much labor. 

Just west of the town of Newark two confluents of the Licking river, the 
Raccoon and South Fork, unite, and between them is a rich valley of some 
thousands of acres, which is the site of the most elaborate and extensive ancient 
works known in the west. From the streams the land rises by natural terraces 
to the general level of the plain, and previous to the 'construction of the canal 
on the second alluvial bench, on the east side of the great works, was a series of 
low mounds, so low, indeed, that a casual observer would not suspect them to 
be mounds. The canal embraced these mounds in its range, and the first lock 
west of the town was constructed on the site of one of them. In excavating 
the pit for it in the spring of 1828, a deposit of human bones was discovered, 



SKETCH OF ANCIENT EARTH WORKS ?)61 

of from twelve to fifteen skeletons, upon wlucli were laid large plates, consist- 
ing of mica of thi; finest quality in regird to transparency and size. Now, it is 
■well known that no mica is found in place in the Mississippi valley, and the 
quej^tion arises as to where such plates as those, of from eight to ten inches in 
length, by from five to seven inches wide, and from one-half to one inch thick, 
are to be found. It is evident that they must have been brought from a great 
distance, perhaps hundreds of miles, and since the quantity, estimated at from 
twelve to twenty bushels in this place alone, was so great, the labor of trans- 
porting it could not have been trivial. It would seem that this mineral was 
highly esteemed by the mound builders, since many large plates of it have been 
ploughed up for several miles around. To what use these plates of transpartnit 
mica were put, or what superstition was connected witli them, is another riddle 
that remains to be read. 

The structure and plans of thf principal ancient earthworks of the Missis- 
sippi valley have been described and dehneated by Atwater, Davis, and Squier, 
and others ; yet much remains to be done in determining the precise purposes 
for which they were constructed. We may assume as an obvious fact that the 
mound builders; in the peculiarity of every form, curve, and line of their works, 
had a purpose or design, but what that design was in many cases is yet to be 
discovered. Wise or foolish, it is locked up in the grave with its projectors, 
and there it will probably remain. That this people was progressive, or that 
the ancient works were constructed by difierent races having each peculiarities 
of their own, is evident; for, on going south, we find a change in the outlines 
and plans of these remains. In southern Tennessee the writer has examined 
several earthworks, and found that the large circular enclosures, the great 
squares, and the long parallel lines have given way to another class of structures. 
At Fort Pickering, two miles below Memphis, on a high bluff overlooking a 
long and graceful bend of the Mississippi, stands what the writer supposed to 
be an a'tar, which is one of the most conspicuous objects on the river. It is in 
the form of a parallelogram, which by stepping was found to be about two hun- 
dred and twenty feet long by one hundred and twenty feet wide, and by estima- 
tion from twenty to twenty-five feet high, with steep sides and a flat upper 
surface. In 1849 this mound was in a good state of preservation, and on dig- 
guig into it the material of which it was composed was found to be calcined 
clay, changed by burning into a brick co^or, the clay before being burnt having 
evidently been mixed with the twigs of cypress, birch, and poplar, which was 
clearly shown by examining the fragments of charcoal under a magnifying glass. 
In the vicinity of this mound were several small circles of fifteen or twenty 
feet diameter, some of which were circular ridges, and others were low mounds, 
seldom exceeding one foot in height, and flat on the top. 

On the battle-field of Shiloh a great many similar right-angled, flat-topped 
mounds were observed, varying but little in size, form, and height. The mounds of 
this class are found for miles along the Tennessee river, and are very numerous 
near the mouth of a small stream, I think called Bear creek, which was in the 
very midst of one of the battle-fields of our late contest. One of these mounds 
is on the bank of the river, a little below the mouth of the stream just mentioned, 
on the side of a high bluff, which affords a fine view of the great bend of the 
Tennessee river. On its south side it is about seven feet above the level of the 
land, but situated as it is on the brow of a h,ll, its north side is raised from 
twenty-five to thirty feet above the plain below. In the course of a walk of 
about a mile back from the river, from twelve to fifteen mounds of this class 
were counted. Their general length is about sixty feet, width forty feet, and 
he.ght from six to eight feet. Many of them were made the burial places of the 
slain who fell in the fearful contest. 

As in the case of the mound at P'ort Pickering the surrounding land was 
marked with small circular mounds, ridges, and crescents, which were so close 



3G2 SKETCH OF ANCIENT EARTHWORKS. 

to each other in some places that I could step from one to the other. No op- 
portunity was afPorded to explore any of these mounds, or to form any idea of 
the purpose for which they were constructed. At the village of Savannah, ten 
miles below, a parallelogram-shaped mound was observed, similar to those near 
Pittsburg Landing, and some two hundred yards to the northwest of it a very 
singular ancient work was noticed. Its form was that of a flattened cone, with 
a base in the form of a well-marked circle, having a diameter of thirty-five steps, 
and its apex, attained by a regular slope from all sides to the centre, was not 
more than three feet above the base. The writer has no means of knowing how 
much farther south these antiquities extend. No earth-works of any kind were 
seen by him in Mississippi. 

Crossing the Mississippi river, ancient remains of a class and character entirely 
different attract our attention. The practical succeeds to the fanciful; the pur- 
pose is no longer mysterious, but obvious. The ruins of ancient towns and 
cities occur so frequently in travelling through southeastern Missouri and east- 
ern Arkansas as to leave no doubt that this portion of our country was once 
very populous. 

The sites of those ancient towns and cities are indicated by a series of little 
square-shaped mounds, raised above the general surfiice of the land but one or 
two feet, all ranged in straight lines in two directions, indicating that the streets 
crossed each other at right angles, and that every dwelling stood upon a street. 
To be assured that these little mounds were the remains of mud (or adobe) 
dwellings, several were opened, and, in turning up the earth, in every instance 
wood ashes and charcoal, broken pottery similar to that found on the shores of 
Lake Erie and throughout the Mississippi valley, flint arrow-heads, and stone 
axes were found. In the rainless regions of the world, the sun-burnt brick, or 
adobe, makes a substantial structure ; but in a country of so much rain as Mis- 
souri and Arkansas adobe houses would soon moulder down to a heap, unless 
well protected by a roof covering. In the implements and utensils found in 
that country no essential difference, either in material or form, was observed, except 
that some earthen vessels were found entire. The marks of the hapd left upon 
the clay when it was plastic still remained upon the vessel. 

Where Fredericktown, the seat of justice of Madison county, Missouri, now 
stands, was also the site of a considerable city. This town occupies the divid- 
ing ridge between the waters of Castor creek and St. Francis river, which are 
about a mile and a half apart. Several fine and large springs of pure cold water 
flow out of the sides of this ridge, which, from indications, was the chief object 
in founding a city at this place. Among those indications is the prominent fact 
that nearest to the water were the largest mounds — largest not only in height 
but in horizontal dimensions. Some of these exceeded twenty feet square in 
base, while those most remote from the water did not exceed ten or twelve feet. 
It is evident that the chiefs, or men in authority and influence, requiring large and 
more commodious dwellings, settled nearer to the water, while the poor dwelt 
further off. 

About four miles to the northwest of Fredericktown another site of a town 
v/as examined, and this was also well supplied with water, as was every one of 
the ancient remains which fell under the notice of the writer in Missouri. 

This hasty .sketch of some of the ancient remains in the Mississippi valley, 
though the result of the observations of a lifetime, is principally drawn from 
meinory, and no pretension is made to exactness. As, however, the preserva- 
tion of a record of the site of every mound which has been observed, and of 
every fact connected with it, is important to the student of archseology, this 
sketch, brief and imperfect as it is, may afford some data of interest in regard 
to the character of the race of men who once thickly peopled this country, and 
who have left such surprising monuments of their arts and industry. 



PILE-WORK ANTIQUITIES OF OLMUTZ. 



TRANSLATED FOR THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION FROM THE VIENNA "WANDERER,' 

JANUARY, 1865. 



In the course of last summer there were fouiid, as is generally known, in the 
precincts of the city of Olmutz a variety of articles aud implements of bone, 
stone and bronze, mingled with animal aud human relics, under conditions which 
had till then not been observed elsewhere than in Switzerland and Denmark. 
The discovery was at once made public and excited great aud general interest 
throughout Germany. Although, from the first, it was impossible to doubt that 
these remains belonged not to the middle ages, but to a preceding era, it could 
not but be felt that an opportunity was thus afforded of throwing great light 
upon the subject of these and similar antiquities by a detailed comparison of the dis- 
coveries made on the banks of the March with the remains of the stone and bronze 
ages of Switzerland. And to whom could this inquiry be referred with so much 
justice as to the highest authorities in this field of science, the widely known ex- 
plorers of the historical antiquities of the country just named — a Keller, a Riiti- 
meyer, a Vogt, and others 1 From Zurich and Basle was first difi'used a light 
over the primeval Celtish epoch of middle Europe, with the modes of life and 
industrial pursuits of its oldest postdiluvian inhabitants. In Zurich and Basle 
alone were to be found the materials for a comparison and identification of the 
various objects of primitive art as well as the animal remains of those remarka- 
ble colonies of the earlier human races. Hence, in Switzerland only could the 
importance of the Olmutz discoveries be rightly decided. To the proposal for 
a thorough and careful comparison of these with the bog and pile antic[uities of 
Switzerland the readiest assent was yielded by the savants of the latter coun- 
try, and the most liberal and zealous assistance Avas rendered for that purpose, 
above all, by Dr. Ferdinand Keller, president of the Antiquarian Society of 
Zurich, the first discoverer of the pile constructions, and by Professors Oswald 
Heer, of Zurich, L. Riitimeyer, of Basle, Karl Vogt, of Genf, and E. Desor, of 
Neuenberg. To these, therefore, are due the warmest thanks of all the friends 
of archaiology and natural science. 

It will of course be readily conceived that but a small proportion of the ob- 
jects as yet discovered could be submitted to the inspection of the above-named 
savants, while much remains to be brought to light by future explorations ; but 
thus much may even now with certainty be said : the pre-historical antiquities 
of Olmutz correspond for the most part in the most exact manner with the indus- 
trial and animal remains of the pile-settlements of Switzerland. To show this, 
we may be allowed to communicate a few facts derived from the statements of 
the Swiss authorities. 

A portion of the Olmutz collection pertains to the age of stone. Dr. Keller 
recognized, first, a stone knife ; second, a hatchet of bone, precisely like those 
Avhich occur in the Swiss sites, and which must have been prepared from the 
bones of some large animal, perhaps the ure-ox ; a fragment of deer's horn, sev- 
ered with a stone hatchet from the trunk ; fourth, a metacarpus of the Equus 
caballus, polished on the anterior side and perfectly similar in this respect to 
Several specimens from Moosscedorf, which antiquarians agree in considering as 
a kind of skates. (Statement of Professor Riitimeyer, of Basle.) 



364 PILE-WORK ANTIQUITIES OF OLMUTZ. 

The greater part, however, of the objects from the banks of the March have 
their origin in the age of bronze ; they are such as, in the words of Dr. Keller, 
" belong to a very early period, which coincides with the bronze age of Switz- 
erland, and fully correspond with the articles taken from the pile structures of 
that period." Among other, both entire and broken, articles of bronze, the same 
savant identified " a portion of a ring in which the joints of the fabrication are 
still to be distinguished ; a piece of a needle ; an ear-ring of the same form with 
those found in the pile buildings and burial mounds," &c.; also, " a spindle whirl, 
bearing the same close correspondence." Among the earthen vessels are found 
many fashioned apparently by no unpractised hand, and, among others. Dr. 
Keller describes one as " a large pot, somewhat coarsely executed, but well 
baked, and furnished with an uncommonly solid brim ; it is more than fifty-six 
centimetres in width, and from the ornamentation may be assigned to a very 
early epoch of the bronze age." Again, a drinking-cup is described as "exactly 
similar to those which we often find in the burial mounds of the Helvetic era 
(two hundred years before and till the birth of Christ) and executed in the 
same style with the above." 

From the communications of Professor Riitimeyer, respecting the animal re- 
mains thus far sent to him, (another remittance has within a short time been 
despatched to Basle,) we learn that in the settlements on the March there existed 
the following animals : The wild boar, the hart, the horse, the goat, the sheep, the 
brachyceros, an ancient race of domestic cattle, two varieties of the dog, the tame 
hog, and also the extinct turf-hog {S'us scrofa fdlustris, Riitimeyer.) Of this 
last the professor had before him, among other remains, a nearly perfect skull, 
which he describes as "diflfering in nothing from those of Switzerland and Italy." 

Professor Oswald Heer has been kind enough to examine the cereal grains 
which were found mingled in the mass containing the bones of animals and men, 
as well as two fragments of bronze. He expresses hiniself as follows: "Besides 
the wheat, ( Triticum vulgare,) which occurs in two forms with larger and smaller 
grains, we find also those of rye, ( Secale cereale,) which had been as yet nowhere 
discovered in the remains either of the pile-settlements or of the Roman times. 
Should it prove on further research that the grains in question are in reality a 
product of the Roman or rather pre-Roman period, it would certainly furnish an 
interesting fact for the history of our cereals." This fact, however, is by no 
means difficult to prove, for the ancient date is satisfactorily evinced : 1st. By 
the two fragments of bronze found in connection with the grains and examined 
by Dr. Keller, one of which fragments appears to have been a portion of a large 
ring, probably for the neck, and the other the handle of some spoon-shaped 
implement 2d. By the immediate contiguity in which the grains are found 
with the skull, determined by Professor Riitimeyer to be that of the turf-hog. 
3d. By the close proximity of the bones of the animal, pronounced by the same 
authority to belong to the ancient race of neat cattle. 4th. By the presence of 
a human skull, whose high antiquity it is impossible to doubt. This last relic 
corresponds in a surprising degree with a skull lately described by K. E. Von 
Baer, (Bulletin of the Petersburg Academy, Melanges biologiques, 1S63, IV, 3,) 
which was taken from a burial mound of the bronze age in Zealand, and of which 
Von Baer had received a plaster cast from M. Thomsen, of Copenhagen. This 
Danish skull, which would appear to be the first belonging to the bronze period 
that has been obtained in Copenhagen, presents, equally with that found at 01- 
mutz, " an extremely inclined crown — that is to say, it is considerably elevated 
along the median line, and sinks away rapidly on both sides. In both crania, 
the upper and hinder part of the head, as far as the occipital ridge, has a 
striking degree of projection, while the under portion, below that ridge, approxi- 
mates to the horizontal. In both a cross line (querlinia) passes from one auricu- 
lar opening to the other, in front of the foramen magnum, &c." Now as, 
according to Von Baer, this Danish skull of the age of bronze strikingly resem- 



PILE-WORK ANTIQUITIES OF OLMUTZ. 365 

bles one discovered in Mecklenburg, likewise another pertaining to a skeleton 
found at Wiesbaden with thirteen bronze rings, and also a very ancient head from 
a quarry in the government of Moscow, it follows that in the bronze age, or at 
least at a certain period thereof, one and the same race of men inhabited the wide 
tract from Denmark to Moravia, and from the Rhine to the banks of the Volga. 

A more detailed and complete account of these discoveries in northern Moravia 
is reserved for another occasion, but, from what has been here said, the import- 
ance of the explorations at Olmutz will scarcely be contested. As little will it 
be denied that the first proofs of the existence in eastern Europe of antiquities 
ascending to the. times of its primitive inhabitants, under conditions similar to 
those of the Swiss lakes, emanated from the banks of the March.* 

There can be no doubt that signal acquisitions might have been made in ad- 
dition to those already realized, and which we owe wholly to the judicious en- 
couragement afforded by a single individual from his own modest salary, had 
money been appropriated by authority for comprehensive excavations. Dr. 
Keller has expressed his conviction that it would well repay the trouble to ex- 
plore carefully those points at which the antiquities appear to offer themselves 
in greatest abundance. The Academy of Sciences of Vienna might, it would 
seem, have promoted, in no slight degree, the knowledge of the primitive condi- 
tion of our empire by the appropriation of means for such further explorations. 
This, however, it has not done, but in the interests of science it has sought to 
improve the discoveries at Olmutz after a different manner. More than ten 
years from the first detection of pile structures in the lake of Zurich by Dr. 
Keller, and after rapidly recurring reports of antiquarian societies since 1853, 
respecting the annually widening discoveries in the Swiss lakes and in Italy, 
when, finally, the researches of Desor had, in 1 864, extended these discoveries 
into Bavaria, the Academy of Vienna contented itself with appropriating 1,200 
florins to four persons for preliminary studies on the pile-work districts of the 
empire. Although several of the most distinguished members have taken the 
warmest interest in the discoveries made at Olmutz and their author, the Acad- 
emy has pronounced against the expediency of prosecuting further researches 
on the March. The learned world, however, will assuredly not forget that the 
first inquiry respecting the existence of this interesting class of antiquities in 
Eastern Europe proceeded from Olmutz. 

* Properly this occurred in the year 1858, at Troppau, through the discoverer of the an- 
tiquities of Ohuutz. (See Year-book of the Imperial Geological Institution, XIII Band. ) At 
Troppau were found, among other things, artificially detached horns of the Bos priscus and 
the Bos pmnigenius, under circumstances which seemed to point to a condition of human life 
in remote antiquity similar to that which existed in the pile-colonies of Switzerland, So we 
are told by the geologist, M. H. Wolf. 



THE ANTIQUITIES ON THE BANKS OF THE MIS- 
SISSIPPI EIVER AND LAKE PEPIN. 



BY DR. L. C. ESTES. 



For several years I have given these mounds attention, and therefore hope 
that the following remarks in regard to them may be of some interest. 

The questions regarding certain fortifications or mounds alleged to exist on 
the banks of Lake Pepin and the Mississippi river was early discussed, and now, 
although it is true that these remains do exist, yet eighty or ninety years have 
made great changes in their appearance, or else the descriptions of them furnished 
to us by early travellers must in a great degree be visionary. We can very easily 
imagine that they were once used for fortifications, but they have now scarcely 
any resemblance to modern forts. 

These mounds are found in great numbers in various parts of the State, mostly 
upon the west bank of the Mississippi river. The location of them about Lake 
Pepin is very marked. A portion of the village of Lake City is built upon and 
over these remains. Between my residence and the lake there seems to have 
been a regularly laid out town or city. The streets are regular and the mound» 
equidistant from each other. In the centre of this city there was a very large 
mound, much larger than any of the others, which was located in the centre 
of the widest street, and the only one out of line. It was very probably the 
" headquarters," the residence of the chief, or it might have been the town hall. 
Nine years ago I sketched and counted these mounds There were about one 
hundred of them, occupying, perhaps, a space of thirty acres 

My theory, which once differed from every other, as to the original design or 
use of these mounds, is now, I believe, indorsed by the State Historical Society, 
and by most persons who have investigated the subject. I am very well satis- 
fied that the large and elongated mounds were designed and ixsed for fortifica- 
tions. Yet I have never been able to determine whether there were ever any 
ditches around them. 

I am also as well satisfied that the very many round mounds found standing 
separate from each other were simply turf houses, in which once dwelt a people 
far above, in point of intelligence, the present race of savages. The common 
idea that these mounds were recepta^es of the dead, or that each one is 
now or has been a sepulchre, is a theory which none have been able to main- 
tain . I have dug into and seen many of them levelled, but never succeeded in 
finding human bones but in one, and those in the large mound standing in the 
centre of the city of mounds before described, and I am convinced that these 
were of more recent interment, and that they belonged to the existing race of 
Indians. It was a natural and convenient place in which to bury their dead. 

Every investigation proves beyond a doubt, in my mind, that these works 
were built of turf, and that they are always composed wholly of the upper strata 
of soil, and that there is no perceptible depression of the earth around their base. 
Again, the soil in the vicinity is not found as deep as in other places, proving 
that it had once been removed. If these mounds were originally sepulchral in 
their design, then in all we should find human bones. 



\ ANTIQUITIES ON THE BANKS OF THE MISSISSIPPI. 367 

Just in the rear of the city of mounds, near the residence of Colonel J. T. 
Averill, there was a large mound, which I believe to have been a pottery, or 
potter's shop. Inside this mound I found numerous remains of pottery, besides 
large, flat smooth stones which wore probably used to grind the clay. For quite 
a distance around, this mound I found large pieces of broken pottery. 

The town seems to have been well fortified, for there is, about half a mile in 
the rear, a regular line of out-posls, each wing extending to the lake. About 
midway of this line, near the residence of H. K. Terrell, the mounds are very 
large, either elongated or built near together. There was, beyond a doubt, the 
stronghold or main fort. 

Again, about three-quarters of a mile still back to the west, upon an elevation 
of the ground, there is a group of the largest mounds I have ever seen. They 
are built very near together and are perfect in their form. There are no ditches 
about thier base, and they are wanting in other appearance of fortifications. Yet 
I believe them to have been used as forts, and that they were placed here to 
guard the approaches to the town from this direction. A few years ago some 
large oak trees were standing on these mounds, but I failed to ascertain their 
ages at the time they were cut down. 

There is still another group of mounds located to the south, just below A. 
Dwelle's farm and near Minnow Lake. These resemble those last described — 
not so large, but more in number. Here again was another fort, which guarded 
the approaches from the south. 



A PHYSICAL ATLAS OF NORTH AMERICA. 



A COMMUNICATION FROM GEO. GIBBS, ESQ. 



Washington, May 4, 1865. 

My Dear Sir : The collection by the Institution of materials for the form- 
ation of a physical atlas of the United States was among the objects con- 
templated by yourself in the original programme of its organization, and it appears 
to me that the time has now arrived when its formation should be laid on a scale 
commensurate in magnitude and variety of subject with the scientific progress of 
America, embracing all the departments of natural, physical, and social science 
capable of beiug represented in such a form, and extended in its design to the 
entire continent, since the boundaries of the United States are accidental and 
governed by none of the laws which control the operations of nature. 

The completion of such a work, and its ultimate publication in a collected 
shape, would, of course, require years, and the expense might render assistance 
from Congress necessary. This, however, is a matter for future consideration. 
The arrangement of the materials already on hand, and what may hereafter be 
collected, will require but a moderate outlay and should be entered upon at 
once. It reflects but little credit on our national enterprise that almost the 
only physical charts of Araei'ica should be of foreign origin. 

As a necessary preliminary it is essential that good skeleton maps be prepared, 
and these should, in my opinion, embrace the following : 

1st. A series of maps of natural geographical regions, exhibiting the hydro- 
graphy of the country with minuteness, but on which only the principal moun- 
tain systems should be given, and those in curves without hachures. These 
maps ought not to be on one scale, for the reason that, while one certain part 
of the continent is comparatively destitute of interest, over large tracts of country, 
others crowd into a small space a gn at variety and even confusion of details. 
They should, however, be upon multiples or fractions of a common unit. As a 
bare suggestion I would mention scales of tyooooo ^^^ eFo^ooo ^^'" these re- 
spectively It is even probable that particular sections would -require still 
larger ones. The districts of country to be included in these regional maps 
will necessarily form a subject of particular consideration. Entire hydrograph- 
ical basins, as a general rule, afford the most homogeneous features, and should 
therefore be adopted unless other reasons interfere. In the geological series, 
for instance, it may be necessary sometimes to exhibit both sides of a mountain 
range instead of vallies bounded by water-sheds. This class of maps will be 
particularly adapted to natural history and the exhibition of physical phenomena. 

2d. A second series, in which the same scales and topography should be used, 
but in which the divisions should be political, will be needed for another class 
of subjects, such as population, education, agriculture, and generally all those 
growing out of the relations of man in society. 

3d. Besides these there is requisite a map of the continent on a large scale, 
certainly not less than 3000000- ^^ should include the entire arctic regions, 
with the eastern part of the continent of Asia and the intermediate islands, the 
islands of the Gulf of Mexico and the Caribbean sea, and the northern skirt of 
South America. This, like the first, should consist chiefly of the hydrography, 
giving only the chief mountain chains, or, at most, just indicating the lower 
water sheds. Upon it the results of the former should be generalized. Sections 
and profiles should, of course, accompany the ma2>8. 



PHYSICAL ATLAS OF NORTH AMERldA. 369 

As these skeletons are Avanted for immediate distribution to commence new 
collections, as well as for the assembling and reduction of information already 
obtained, they should at once be lithographc d, the engraving of the originals 
being deferred for the present. As however, lithography does not possess the 
requisite qualities for finished work, I would not recommend the drawing itself 
to be made in the first place upon stone. Certain sections of the country where 
the topography is already sufficiently established, might, indeed, at once and 
with economy be engraved. The discussion of these questions, however, will be 
properly referred to the officer to whom the sujiervision of the work is committed. 

The maps designed to illustrate the natural and physical sciences, should 
not, at least in the first instance, exhibit political boundaries, roads, or a greater 
amount of nomenclature than is necessary to prevent error in location, and 
that should be chiefly confined to the names of rivers and natural landmarks ; 
but the parallels and meridians should be displayed. No two subjects should, 
on any account, be included in any one map of either class. 

It is needless here to specify all those subjects, and in fact many will doubt- 
less hereafter suggest themselvt's, which would occur to no one at present. 
In their final shape, one set should, of course, give the topography of the con- 
tinent with the utmost practicable accuracy, minutiae being however confined to 
those of particular sections. The map of the country west of the Mississippi, 
accompanying the Pacific railroad surveys, is an instance of the disadvantage 
of multiplying details on a general map, the most important part of it being 
rendered practically useless through this error. A bold and simple style of 
topography should be adopted for all. 

On the maps being ready for distribution, each department of the government 
should be supplied Avith copies to be issued to such officers as it may designate. 
Contributions should be sought from the Bureau of Engineers and the ^Medical 
Bureau of the army, from the Coast Survey, the Census Bureau, that of Agricul- 
tin-e, of Indian Affairs and others, as well as from the National Academy of 
Science and learned bodies generally through the country, from expeditioiasand 
surveys, and from individuals pursuing special scientific investigations. 

As the atlas is to include the Avhole continent, with its adjuncts, it will of 
course be proper to solicit co-operation in its execution not only from our own 
countrymen, but from Russian and British America and from Mexico. Full 
credit should be given in each case on the maps themselves to the source whence 
their contents are derived, while the Institution, as originating the Avork, and 
bearing the expenses of its preparation, reserves to itself the title of "The 
Smithsonian Atlas." As soon as any map or series of maps in any branch or 
department is completed, it may at once be published and sold at a cost sufficient 
to defray the expense. 

The maturing of the skeleton plan in the study of projections, scales, style 
of topography, and the districts of country to be embraced in the regional maps, 
should be submitted to a single person, familiar with the surveys that have been 
mide of the country, and at least grounded in the different natural and physi- 
cal sciences. The war, now drawing to a close, will undoubtedly detach from 
active service a number of officers of the Engineers, including of course those 
formerly engaged on the surveys west of the Mississippi. A connection with a 
work of this magnitude and importance would naturally be an object of ambi- 
tion, and I believe that its supervision by one of them would readily be permit- 
ted by the Secretary of "War and by the chief of that bureau. If the United 
States, as we all trust, is now to enter upon a new career of mental as well as 
physical advancement, it becomes us to anticipate the directions in which sci- 
entific inquiry can be pushed. 

I have the honor to be, very respectfully, 

GEORGE GIBBS. 

Professor Joseph Henry, 

Secretary Smithsonian Institution. 
24 s m 



ON ETHNOLOGICAL EESEARCH. 



A COMMUNICATION FROM DR. E. H. DAVIS, OF NEW YORK. 



New York, December I, 1^65. 

Dear Sir: In your last favor, (nearly a year since,) yon suggested that in 
case my collection went to Europe, it would be highly important that casts be 
taken of the most interesting objects, and inquired the cost of the same. Hear- 
ing nothing more from you on the subject, yet believing it so important to the 
interest of American ethnology that a suit of casts should remain here, I deter- 
mined at once to complete the undertaking myself. I have accomplished it by 
the aid of two artists — one to mould, the other to color — completing two full sets 
at an expense of five hundred dollars. They have succeeded so well that it 
reconciles me much to the loss of the collection to this country. With these 
casts and contributions from the west, with Dr. Berendt's collection, which I 
have purchased, as well as others sent by my former students from Central and 
South America, I shall soon again fill up my cabinet with specimens illustrating 
the development of the arts on this continent. 

Some years since I informed you that I was engaged in constructing an eth- 
nological map of the United States, locating merely the mural remains. Since 
then I have changed my plan by locating the tribes instead of their remains, 
and for my own convenience have extended it to the whole continent. For in- 
stance, the great satisfaction it affords one to be able, on receiving relics from 
any part of the continent, to refer to a map showing the family or tribe of In- 
dians now or formerly occupying that spot. 

It is by a careful study and comparison of this kind only that wc may be 
able to arrive at any reliable conclusions concerning the relative culture of the 
various tribes. 

Formerly the sources for constructing such a chart were scarce and unreliable. 
But few travellers attempted to locate the tribes they visited, and none pretended 
to do so with any degree of accuracy. Adair, Carver, and some others accom- 
plished something by accompanying their works with maps giving the names 
of tribes they visited, but without limits or boundaries. 

Albert Gallatin was the first to construct anything like a comprehensive eth- 
nological chart, locating, according to language, most of the tribes of North 
America. So far as he went, it was undoubtedly much in advance of anything 
down to bis day. Since his time, by the philological studies of Hale and our 
late lamented Turner, we were able to correct some and add much to his labors. 
Yet the honor of completing the finest ethnological chart of America has been 
secured by a foreigner, the learned German anthropologist Waitz, (now dead.) 
He, by the aid of Gallatin, Ludwig, Turner, and a host of other authorities, has 
almost exhausted the subject. Still, much remains to be accomplished by local 
explorers, who may add new facts, or correct inevitable mistakes in a work 
covering so extensive a field as all America. In illustration of this remark 
comes the work of Manuel Orozco, "Geografia de los Lenguas, y Carta Etno- 
grafica de Mexico," published last year under the auspices of Maximilian. This 
is a work of immense labor, continued through a long series of years, performed, 
too, under the disadvantage of working almost alone, cut off very much by the 
unsettled condition of the country from the results of co-laborers and societies 



ETHNOLOGICAL RESEARCH. 371 

in other countries. Hence our astonisliment that so much has been done, and 
at the same time so well done. It is accompanied by an ethnographic chart, 
handsomely executed, showing the geographic distribution of all the Indian 
tribes of Mexico. He descends much more into detail than Waitz, who gives 
to Mexico but a few families, while Orozco divides them into eleven distinct 
families of languages, leaving sixteen unclassified, and sixty-two idioms, com- 
prising in all two hundred and seventy-six languages and seven hundred and 
twenty nine tribes within the limits of that country. 

Notwithstanding all this seeming minutiai and accuracy of Orozco, we find 
other explorers adding new light. For instance. Dr. Berendt, who, you are 
aware, has spent many years in that country, at the same time enjoying the 
rare advantage of understanding the Maya language, which enables him to add 
much new information, and also to correct some of the errors into which the pa- 
tient Orozco has fallen. 

I am now convinced that from all these som-ces a much better ethnological 
chart can be constructed than now exists — one that would reflect credit upon 
America. Cannot you accomplish this desirable end by calling to your aid the 
combined results of modern explorers, such as Berendt, Gibbs, Morgan, and 
others ? Let them, singly or combined, contribute each their mite to the general 
stock, which must result in benefit to all. 

* * * * Some of our army surgeons have contributed considerably to 
anthropology by the statistics they have collected on the measurements of the 
different races. But much more reliable information might have been obtained 
by concert of action, and by adopting a more complete and uniform system of 
measurements. In examining this subject, at the request of members of the 
Sanitary Commission, I came to the conclusion that the German method of 
Scherzer and Schwarz was the most scientific, yet it needs some modification to 
adapt it to our more practical and less patient people. I have copied it, and 
shall send it for your inspection, notwithstanding you may have seen it, if you 
have received Dr. Carl Vcjgt's Lectures on Man, which have been translated 
and published by the Anthropological Society of London. 
I remain, most respectfully, yours, &c., 

E. H. DAVIS. 

Professor Henry. 



TABLE OF MEASUREMENT BY SCHERZER AND SCHWARZ. 
1. — GENERAL OBSERVATIONS. 

[Name, sex, native country, occupation, shape and growth of beard, &c.] 

No. of the 
systematic BerioB. 

1. Age of the individual measured 1 

2. Color of the hair 2 

3. Color of eyes 3 

4. Number of pulsations in a minute 4 

5. Weight 5 

6. Pressing power, (force manuelle,) measured with the dynamometer of 

Rcgnier 6 

7. Lifting power, (force renalej measured with the dynamometer of Rcgnier 7 

8. Total height 8 

11. — MEASUREMENTS WITH THE PLUMMET AND METRE-SCALE. 

9. Distance of the commencement of the growth of the hair on the forehead 

from the perpendicular 9 

10, Distance of the root of the nose from the perpendicular 10 



372 ETHNOLOGICAL RESEARCH. 

No. of tho 
syetomatie series. 

11. Distance of the anterior nasal spine from the perpendicular 11 

12. Distance of the point of the chin (mental process) from the perpendicular 12 

13. Distance from the root of the nose to its tip 13 

14. Distance from the tip of the nose to the anterior nasal spine 14 

III. MEASUREMENT WITH THE CALIPERS. 

15. Distance from the point of the chin to the commencement of growth of 

hair 17 

16. Distance from the point of the chin to the root of the nose 15 

17. Distance from the point of the chin to anterior nasal spine 16 

18. Distance from the point of the chin to the vertex 19 

19. Distance from the point of the chin to crown of the head 21 

20. Distance from the point of the chin to the external occipital protuberance 23 

21. Distance from the point of the chin to the external auditory opening.. 25 

22. Distance from the point of the chin to the angle of the lower jaw 27 

23. Distance from the root of the nose to the vertex 20 

24. Distance from the root of the nose to the crown of the head 22 

25. Distance from the root of the nose to the external occipital protuberance 24 

26. Distance from the nasal root to the external auditory opening 26 

27. Distance from the nasal root to the angle of the lower jaw 28 

28. Distance from the place where the hair begins to grow to the incisura 

juglaris sterni 18 

29. Distance from the external occipital protuberance to the seventh cervical 

vertebra — the measurements 28 and 29 must be taken with the head 
in the same position, i. e , the natural one 56 

30. Distance from one auditory opening to the other , . 30 

31. Distance of the uppermost points of attachment of the ear 31 

32. Greatest distance between the zygomata, or zygomatic arches 32 

33. Distance between the external corners of the eyes 33 

31. Distance between the internal corners of the eyes 34 

35. Distance between the points of attachment of the lobes of the ear 35 

36. Breadth of the nose 36 

37. Breadth of the mouth 37 

38. Distance between the angles of the lower jaw-bone 38 

39. Distance from the seventh vertebra of the neck to the semi-lunar notch 

of the sternum, f incisura juglaris sterni J 40 

40. Transverse line from one middle line of the axilla, above the mammse, to 

the other — .' 43 

41. Distance from the sternum to the vertebral column 44 

42. Distance from one anterior superior spine to the ilium of the other 49 

43. Distance from one trochanter major to the other 50 

IV. — MEASUREMENTS WITH THE MEASURING TAPE. 

44. Circumference of the head around the external occipital protuberance . . 29 

45. Circumference of the neck 39 

46. From the greater tuberosity of one humerus, in a horizontal line, to the 

other 41 

47. Distance from one middle line of the a,xilla, above the mammse, to the 

other 42 

48. Circumference of the thorax at the same place 45 

49. Distance from one nipple to the other 46 

50. Circumference of the waist . — ^ 47 

51. From one anterior superior spine%f the ilium to the other 48 



ETHNOLOGICAL RESEARCH 373 

No. of the 
systematic series. 

52. Distance from the trochanter major to the anterior superior spine of the 

ilium, (on same side) 66 

53. Distance from the most prominent part of the sternal articulation of the 

clavicle to the anterior spine of the ilium 51 

54. Distance from the most prominent part of the same to the umbilicus. ... 52 
o5. Distance from the umbilicus to the upper ridge of the symphysi.s pubis 53 

56. Distance from the fifth lumbar vertebra, along the crest of the ilium and 

the inguinal fossa?, to the symphysis pubis 54 

57. Distance from the seventh vertebra to the terminal point of the os coccygis 57 

58. Distance from one summum humeri, across the back, to tl)e other. ... 5^ 

59. Distance from the summum humeri to the external condyle of the humerus 58 

60. Distance from the external condyle of the humerus to the styloid process 

of the radius across extensor side 59 

61. Distance from the styloid process of the radius, across the back of the 

hand to the articulation of the metacarpal bone of the middle finger. 60 

62. Distance from the same articulation to top of middle finger 61 

63. Breadth of the hand *. 62 

64. Greatest circumference of upper arm around the biceps 63 

65. Greatest circumference of the fore-arm 64 

66. Smallest circumference of the fore-arm 65 

67. Distance from the trochanter major to the external condyle of the femur 67 

68. Distance from the external conuyle of the femur to the external malle- 

olus 68 

69. Distance from the inferior margin of the symphysis pubis to internal 

condyle of femur 69 

70. Distance from the internal condyle of the femur to internal malleolus . . 70 

71. Greatest circumference of the thigh 71 

72. Smallest circumference of the thigh 72 

73. Circumference of the knee-joint 73 

74. Greatest circumference of the calf 74 

75. Smallest circumference of the lower part of the thigh above the malleoli 75 
76 Length of foot 76 

77. Circumference of foot around the instep 77 

78. Circumference of the metatarsal joints 78 



INTERNATIOJSTAL AECH^OLOGICAL COJ^GRESS: 

OEGANIZED BY THE AECH^OLOGICAL ACADEMY OF BELGIUM IN CON- 
CERT WITH THE FEENCH SOCIETY OF AECH^OLOGY: ANTWEEP, 1866.'' 



PROGRAMME. 



ArcHjEologv. — 1. Do the discoveries of lacustrian habitations enable us to 
assign precise chronological limits to the custom which led to the erection of 
these constructions ? 

2. Do the dolmens of Ireland and Scotland modify the conclusions drawn by 
French archaeologists from the study of monuments of the same aature existing 
on the coasts of Brittany and Normandy, in regard to the destination of these 
constructions ? 

3. Do the subterranean discoveries made within a few years in Denmark 
modify the resvilts obtained by archaeological science in the southern and central 
parts of Europe 1 

4. To what epoch may the tombs of lead be referred 1 By what characters 
can their succession be recognized ? 

5. Do the discoveries of antiquities made thus far in Germany enable us to 
determine, in a certain manner, the period during which the Romans occupied 
that part of Europe 1 

* Regulations. — 1. The Congress will open August 12, 1866, and will terminate the 21st 
of the same month. 2. It will be divided into two sections, which will transact business 
alternately, in general assembly. 3. The central bureau, composed of four members of the 
committee of organization, four of the committee of administration, and six foreign delegates, 
will nominate, each day, for the sessions of the next, the president, vice-presidents and 
members of the bureau of each section. Each day, the central bureau will prescribe, for 
the following day, the hours of session of the sections and determine for them the order of 
the day, which shall not be modified. 4. The secretaries of the sections will be nominated by 
the central bureau, which will proclaim the names at the opening session. 5. No one shall 
address the Congress during a session without permission from the president. 6. All discus- 
sion respecting religion and modern politics is expressly interdicted. 7. The reading of no 
memoir will be permitted. This interdiction does not apply to citations which the speakers 
may have occasion to make in their discourses. 8. Written memoirs will be referred to the 
central bureau, which will judge whether they merit insertion in the compte-rendu of the 
sessions. 9. The members shall have the right of presenting other questions than those of 
the programme, but these must have been previously laid, during session, upon the desk. 
They will be examined, the same evening, by the central bureau, which will judge whether 
they can be admitted. The result of the deliberation will be communicated next day to the 
sections which they concern. 10. Scientific excursions will be in order during and after the 
continuance of the Congress. 11. Those persons shall be members of the Congress who, 
having accepted the invitation extended to them, shall have deposited in the hands of the 
treasurer the sum of ten francs for the purpose of discharging in part the expense of printing 
and engraving the compte-rendu of the labors of the session. 12. Each member of the Con- 
gress shall be entitled to receive a copy of the compte-rendu, which will be published under 
the superintendence of the general secretaries. 13. Each scientific association which shall 
appear by representative shall receive gratuitously a copy of the compte-rendu. This does 
not dispense with the payment by the delegates of the contribution mentioned in article 11, 
and which gives them personally a right to the receipt of the volume. 14. Members pre- 
vented from attending the Congress may, like others, present memoirs on the questions of 
the programme. 15. Eepresentatives of the public journals will, on application to the central 
bureau, have a special gallery assigned to them. 16. Any difficulty not foreseen in these 
arrangements will be submitted to the decision of the central bureau without appeal. 



INTERNATIONAL ARCH^OLOGICAL CONGRESS. 375 

6. What influence has been exerted on the arts, and especially on architecture, 
in the Iberian peninsula by the occupation of the Moors 1 

7. What state has the study of runic inscriptions attained ? 

8. To determine the characters of Carlovingian architecture and its influence 
on the progress of the art of building. To explain the influence of the Normans 
on this art, after Charlemagne. 

9. What classifications may be adopted for the discoveries made in Belgium 
and neighboring countries of objects anterior to the Carlovingian era 1 Are the 
divisions adopted by the Abbd Cochet admissible elsewhere than in Normandy? 

10. What is the true symbolical interpretation of the box or coff"er, the glass 
or poculum, and the cloth mcippa, in the funeral representations of the Gallo- 
Roman epoch ? 

11. Did the architecture of Greek temples borrow its forms from constructions 
in wood % A discussion of the opinion of M. Violet-Leduc on this subject. 

12. Is the ogival style to be considered as the natural and complete develop- 
ment of the Eomau style? On the contrary hypothesis, might not this last be 
reinstated in practice and apjjlied to the requirements of the present age ? 

13. There existed in France, in the twelfth century, several schools or 
systems of architecture, in determinate regions. Can the same fact be recog- 
nized in Germany and the Netherlands during the eleventh and twelfth cen- 
turies 1 If so, what was the geographic distribution of those schools, and in what 
did they differ from on<- another? 

14. What were the mechanical means employed by the primitive races in 
moving the immense blocks serving for the construction of dolmens, peulvans, 
menhirs, and structures styled halls of the giants 1 An examination should be 
made of the opinions pronounced on this subject. See the memoir of his 
Majesty Frederic VII, king of Denmark, inserted in the publications of the 
Society of Antiquaries of the North, (1850, 1860.) 

15. What is conclusively known respecting the different kinds of horseshoes 
found in Gallo-Roman mines, and the manner of using them? 

16. What is the point to which the study of hieroglyphics, and other modes 
of writing adopted by the ancient Egyptians, has attained ? 

17. Are the ancient heaps or mounds which exist in southern Gaul itinerary 
landmarks, tombs, or monuments of some other kind ? 

18. To ascertain the origin of the ogival style, and explain how it was intro- 
duced into the Netherlands, Germany, and Eugland. 

19. To determine the special causes which have contributed to modify the 
ogival style in France, England, Germany, Italy, and the Netherlands. 

20. To determine by texts and respectable authorities the honorary value of 
the ornaments which certain representations of Roman warriors show to have 
been in use. 

21. What degree of certainty has been attained by studies directed to the 
deciphering of the ciuieiforras ? 

22. The strongholds encompassed with stones or palisades of wood, repre- 
sented on the column of Trajan, evidently aflPord the point of departure of our 
feudal castles of the tenth and eleventh centuries. What documents and texts 
exist showing the system used in the intermediate period, that is to say, under 
the Merovingians and Carlovingians, for abodes of opulent propriettn-s living in 
the country? 

23. What rules should be adopted in the different countries of Europe : 1st, 
for constructing methodical archaeological charts; 2d, for classifying systemati- 
cally each principal epoch ? 

24. Should churches be made to front towards the east ? 

25. In churches, what is the best situation that can be given to organs and 
baptismal fonts ? 



376 INTERNATIONAL ARCH^OLOGICAL CONGRESS. 

26. Are there any modern requirements whicli the ogival style could not 
satisfy 1 

27. To present a view of the Anglo-Saxon antiquities brought to light by ex- 
cavations made in England since the commencement of the prtsent century. 
To institute a parallel between these antiquities and those of the Frankish epoch 
which are found in the soil of ancient Gaul. 

28. To present a series of figures of feudal keeps or dungeons in western 
Europe at certain dates, going back to the twelfth, thirteenth, and fourteenth 
centuries. 

29. Do there exist any certain means of distinguishing the vases of the 
Gauls, the Germans, the Eatavians, the Britons, and the Roman or Gallo-Roman 
vases ? 

30. Are the ceramic classifications of M. Pettier, of Rouen, for the thirteenlh, 
fourteenth, and fifteenth centuries (see the comj^te-rendu of the Scientific Congress 
of Rouen) accepted in England, Belgium, and Germany 1 

31. Where are to be found the most perfect models of Gothic civil architec- 
ture 1 Would it not be desirable that the monotony of modern houses should 
give place to ogival or Roman construction ? 

32. Are the white and light potteries covered externally with red lines char- 
acteristic of the thirteenth century ? 

33. Is the use of plaster, zinc, cast-iron, and similar materials admissible in 
artistic or monumental constructions ? 

34. What, in the different regions of Europe, has been the influence of local 
materials employed in ogival architecture during the middle ages ? 

35. A review of the art of cloth-making among the Romans as illustrated by 
the texts and ancient bas-reliefs which relate to this mode of industry. 

36. What was the signification of the Jiorse in the funeral bas-reliefs of 
Greece ? 

37. By what signs can the deceased person be recognized in ancient bas-re- 
liefs representing death under the form of an adieu ? 

38. A compendious account of the art of the blacksmith in the second, third, 
and fourth centuries, with a citation of texts and the production of bas-reliefs. 

39. Do the Greek temples present curves in their principal lines ? A discus- 
sion of the theories of Penrose and Boetticher on this subject. 

40. Is it practicable to ascertain, by facts, the epochs of the burning and 
burial of the dead in the Gauls ? 

41. Is it possible to determine the different phases of Roman civilization in 
the Gauls from the study of monuments and archaeological discoveries 1 

42. .What are the principles to be pursued in the restoration of ancient monu- 
ments constructed at successive epochs and in different styles 1 

43. What measures should be asked from the legislature to insure the preser- 
vation of historical monuments 1 A succinct account to be given of the legal 
provisions to this end which are in force in Belgium and adjacent countries. 

44. To determine the age of objects in silex from their degree of elaboration. 

45. To what age may we refer the instruments cut out of bone and silex in 
the caverns of Arriege of the provinces of Liege, Namur, &c. 1 

46. According to M. de Caumont the tumuli of a great part of France are 
not posterior to the Antonines ; can this observation be generalized for the 
whole of ancient Gaul, or at least for the north of that country ? 

History. — 1. An examination of the different opinions which tiave been re- 
cently advanced respecting the birth place of Rubens. 

2. A review of the different opinions maintained respecting the true inventors 
of printing, with a statement of the conclusions arrived at, 

3. Is it certain that America was discovered by the populations of the north 
of Europe before the expedition of Columbus 1 



INTERNATIONAL ARCH^OLOGICAL CONGRESS. 377 

4. An estimate of Charles the Bold as warrior and politician. 

5. A determination of the Hellenic and the Etruscan influence on the devel- 
opment of the sciences and arts in primitive Rome. 

6. A verification, by positive documents, of the place of birth of Godefroid 
de Bouillon. 

7. What was the special character of the ancient Celtic, Batavian, and Gaul- 
ish divinities '? 

8. What were the results of the Saxon immigrations in the eighth and uinth 
centuries into the ancient Low Countries and the north of France ? From what 
motives was Charlemagne led to favor them 1 

9. Might not archaeological and historical societies, by co-operating to this end, 
complete in France the work of Alexis Monteil and extend its application to 
other countries ? 

10. What, in the tenth century, were the principal routes of communication in 
the Netherlands and the north of France ? 

11. What was the place of birth, or at least the nationality, of Pierre I'Her- 
mite? 

12. Is it necessary to abandon the inquiry into the birth-place of Charle- 
magne ? 

13. A determinate geographical circumscription of the forest Charboniere ? 

14. An estimate of the influence exerted by the Roman legions on the pro- 
pagation of Christianity among barbarous tribes. 

15. Were there personages of high rank in Roman society who as early as 
the first and second centiuies had embraced the religion of Christ ? 

16. What systems for the classification of historical archives have been 
adopted in the diff'erent countries of Europe 1 What is the most rational 
method ? 

17. Indicate the processes employed in the middle ages for the manufacture 
of stained glass windows, distinguishing the ancient workshops most renowned 
for the preparation of colored glass. 

18. What has been the influence of Germany on the development of public 
law in France 1 

19. What were the relations of the Flemish communes with Edward the 
third of England on the occasion of his wars with Philip de Valois 1 An ap- 
preciation of Van Artevelde in reference to the Flemish policy regarding Eng- 
land and France. 

20. What was the topography of ancient Menapia at the time of Julius 
Caesar ? 

21. An account of the external relations of the Society of Free Merchants of 
London, and the treaties of commerce which it negotiated. 

22. What is the present name of the localities in which were situated the en- 
dowments conferred by Goibert and his son Guntbert, endowments verified by 
several diplomas of the ninth century of the cartulary of the abbey of St. Ber- 
tin? (See Cartulaire de VAbbaye, by M. Guerard : Paris, 1841.) 

23. What are the means of determining the territorial circumscriptions of the 
Gaulish tribes mentioned in ancient authors ? 

24. What was the influence of the navigation law, under Cromwell, on the 
development of the English marine? 

25. An account of the hydraulic labors connected with the ancient course of 
the Scheldt towards the sea, executed by the orders of King Otho. Did not 
these labors give rise to two distinct enterprises : the derivation of the Scheldt 
from Ghent to Boterswonde under Otho I, (941-946,) and the enlargement of 
the passage before Flessingen, under Otho 11 ? 

26. What has been the influence of the diflerent modes of artistic instruction 
employed from the thirteenth century to our own day, upon the progiess of in- 
telligence and the civilization of the popular classes 'I 



378 INTERNATIONAL ARCH^OLOGICAL CONGRESS. 

27. An estimate of tlie character of the ancient schools of painting of Liege 
and Tournai, and their influence on the development of the Flemish school. 

28. What were the causes of the development of the fine arts in Flanders in 
the fourteenth and fifteenth centuries, and what was the influence of this artistic 
movement in France, and especially in Burgundy ? 

29. To what point did the religious dogmas of the Druids prepare the propa- 
gation of Christianity among the Gauls and Britons ? 

30. What was the origin of the Exchange {Bourse) in commerce? 

31. Is it conclusively established that the brothers Van Eyck were the in- 
ventors of painting in oil ? 

32. What are the best means for awakening in the people the sesthetic senti- 
ment? Do artistic exhibitions promise in this respect the desired effect? 

33. Whence did the ancient tribes of Mexico, which, according to Aztec tradi- 
tion, arrived in the twelfth century in the valley of An ahuac, derive their origin? 

34. What date is to be assigned to the compilation of the first book of the 
Chronicles of Froissart? Distinguish in this first book what pertains properly 
to that historian, and indicate what he has borrowed, together with the interpo- 
lations or alterations which his work may have undergone. 

35. Do the Assyrian monuments discovered up to this time, and the studies 
of which they have been the object, enables us to state the distinctive characters 
of Assyrian art, or to recognize any traces of that art in the Hellenic and Etrus- 
can civilizations ? 



ON VITALITY. 



BY THE REV. H. H. HIGGINS. M. A. 



FROM THE PROCKEDINGS OF THE LITERARY AND PHILOSOPHICAL SOCIETY OF LIVERPOOL, ENGLAND, 18u*. 



There is at present among some very eminent physiologists a growing tendency 
to deny, or at all events to question, the existence of vitality as distinct from the 
action of known forces, such as heat, light, electricity, &c., or something anal- 
ogous to these. 

The views of the physiologists above referred to may thus be briefly stated : 

(1.) Of the nature of vitality we know nothing ; we are, therefore, not required 
either to admit or to deny its existence as a distinct thing. 

(2.) The observed phenomena of life are consistent with, and, to a very great 
extent, derivable from, the operation of known laws; it is, therefore, not philo- 
sophical to introduce an entirely unknown agency to account for such residual 
phenomena as are not thus reducible. 

The present paper will be devoted to the consideration of some questions 
bearing upon these two propositions. 

It is a matter of comparatively little importance what term may be chosen to 
denote the object of our inquiry, whether it be "vitality," or "germ force," or the 
"vital principle," so that it be clearly understood to refer only to the ultimate 
element of life, and not to any even of the simplest functions of life. Seen under 
this aspect, vitality is simply the sine qua non of the animate individual,* whose 
very existence, as such, stands or falls as vitality is, or is not, regarded as a dis- 
tinct entity. Personality, which is a higher form of individuality, is equally 
dependent on the question whether vitality is, or is not, the result of forces such 
as we are accustomed to deal with in scientific investigations. It would be 
absurd to call a flame a person or an individual ; yet it has active qualities, a 
distinct form, requires aliment, &c. A man is not a person because he has these 
properties, but because he has a something which a flame has not. Whether 
this something be designated soul, or spirit, or will, or intellect, or vitality, is, I 
apprehend, all the same in respect of its relation to physical science, which 
cannot recognize metaphysical distinctions. In fact, it is the question before us, 
whether on grounds of physical science we are competent to recognize vitality 
under any aspect as a distinct thing. 

It must be evident that if the vital functions by which man is distinguished 
from a block of granite be the result of difference in the combination of the pri- 
mary molecular forces of his living substance, he has no more right to be regarded 
as a person than has a thunder-storm; his being is a process, and in general 
terms he may be described as a segregation of certain forces, initiated by a 
similar combination, and passing away into equilibrium, or into the general stock 
from whence he was derived. 

* lu assigning this position to vitality the writer is aware of the difficulties which beset the 
subject, especially in connection with the development of plants, and in respect of the lower 
forms in the animal kingdom, compound animals, the alternation of generations, «fec. It, 
however, vitality can be shown to lie beyond the range of scientific investigation, in all these 
cases the knot is cut ; and while physical development remains in every instance a proper 
object of scientific inquiry, neither the relations subsisting between the vitality of a seed and 
that of the parent plant, nor any similar relations, can adequately be discussed as matters 
pertaining to natural science. 



380 VITALITY 

The issue, however, must be tried, not on its consequences, but on its scimi- 
tific merits ; on which grounds, as I apprehend, whatever may be demonstrated 
concerning the vitality of man holds equally good with reference to the life of a 
monad, or of a particle of red snow. Still, if it can be shown on purely physical 
principles that vitality is a something which is not analogous to the actions of 
known forces, then life is, to all intents and purposes, a miracle, by which I 
understand not the action of a power in opposition to or thwarting the physical 
laws of nature, but the manifestation of an agency extra-cosmical, working har- 
moniously with, and by means of, those laws. 

It may seem to some hardly worth the while to contend for the possession by 
man of a distinct vitality, if by this term is meant only that which he must hold 
in common with an animalcule or a seed. But a moment's reflection will make 
it plain how vast a step is taken if we gain from physical science the admission 
that her kingdom is not universal. None will be more ready than the man of 
science to confess how little is that which is known when compared with that which 
remains to be known ; nevertheless he is becoming more and more inclined to 
be convinced that all is knoivahle, and, if known, would be found conformable 
in all respects with the knowledge that he has already. Now, if it can be shown 
that vitality, even in a vegetable cell, is a thing which lies beyond the cope of 
phpsical investigation, the spell is broken, and a claim is established for the 
determination of what may or may not constitute the higher faculties of man on 
other grounds than those of physical science alone. 

As a believer in something more than natural science, it is proper for me to 
state that I do not think a rational persuasion of the personality of man must 
rest upon evidence to be obtained from physical researches. Still I should 
expect to find in physical science some indication of its own limits, and of the 
commencement of that border land which separates the known from the un- 
known. More than this the very nature of the case forbids. 

We may now proceed to the consideration of the two propositions given at the 
commencement of this paper as expressing the views of certain physiologists 
who decline to recognize in vitality anything beyond the operation of forces 
amenable to physical investigation. 

It will be observed at the outset that much stress is laid upon the absence of 
all knowledge respecting the nature of vitality. This limitation is needful, be- 
cause to say that nothing is known of its effects would simply be to anticipate 
the decision of the question at issue. But it may at once be admitted that we 
know nothing of the nature of vitality. How should we, if it has no analogy 
with any of the known forces ? For, on this supposition, in what form could 
knowledge of vitality hold its place in our minds ? Not in any of the old familiar 
forms, such as predicates respecting its quantity, intensity, polarity, and the 
like ; for the thing thus known would have analogy with known forces, and 
would not be a thing sui generis, but would fall naturally into some recognized 
category. We have to give our reasons for concluding that certain observed 
facts imply the existence of an agency quite unlike any of the forces known to 
us. The reply that we know nothing of the nature of such an agency is cer- 
tainly no disparagement to our hypothesis, unless it may be shown that nothing 
can exist of which we do not know the nature. If, then, we are at liberty to 
make the supposition that vitality is a thing sui generis, that we know nothing 
of its nature tells neither for nor against the probability of its existence. 

One of the broadest generalizations deducible from the immense additions 
recently made to the ascertained truths of science is, that numberless things 
previously supposed to be distinct are now found to be so closely related that it 
is impossible to draw a line of separation between them. This has been the case 
alike with things organic and inorganic. The great kingdoms of animal and 
vegetable life pass quite imperceptibly the one into the other; and in both king- 
doms the number of classes, orders, families, genera, and species that show the 



VITALITY 381 

same tendency is so great that ■where an isolated group is found it is thought to 
be probable that the links of connection are missing only because they are ex- 
tinct, or are not yet discovered. 

It is important for our purpose to notice the manner in which one group of 
living things passes into another. It will generally be found that the transition 
is not effected by the shading off or blending of the extreme edges of the groups, 
but by a kind of interlocking of the one into the other. The junction often 
resembles that of the sea and the land on the coast of Norway, where in many 
places it is hard to say whether it is the sea that runs far into the land or the 
liud that runs far into the sea. Thus, judged by one set of characters, an or- 
ganic form may not only be a vegetable, but even hold a somewhat high place 
in the vegetable kingdom, while, judged by another set of characters, the same 
creature may not only be an animal, but have its place by no means on the 
confines of the animal kingdom. 

Discoveries relating to the allotropic forms of matter and the correlation of 
the imponderable forces warrant the same conclusion as to the close affinity 
subsisting between inorganic things. 

In fact, that "nature does not proceed by a leap" might seem to be a rule 
that lacks the criterion of an exception; yet there is an exception, and a striking 
one; limits have given way in all directions, yet tliere is one that stands out as 
i^hiirply and as distinctly as ever — that, namely, which divides animated things 
from those which are inanimate. No form of matter tliat is not animate exhibits 
anything approaching to thi; phenomena of life. Of course, none but a super- 
ficial observer would suggest the process of crystallization, or the dendritic 
appearances of some metals, or the moss-like forms seen in agates, as excf^ptions. 
Neither can any instance of a degradation towards the character of inoiganic 
matter be found in the very lowest forms of life, in the protozoa, or the sponges, 
or the nullipores, or the fungi, the algae, the confervas, or even in thi? single living 
vegetable cell. 

Now, if the vital principle be analogous to any known form of matter or 
force, this solitary case of a great leap taken by nature is incongruous with 
all that we know of her other proceedings. If, indeed, the presence of life in- 
dicates the introduction of something entirely new, then we have a reason for 
the leap. But if not, the facts we have considered appear to be inconsistent 
with the hiatus between animate and inanimate things. If life be made up of 
forces similar to those which act in various ways both on organic and on inor- 
j;anic matter, we might expect to find the transition from things inanimate to 
things animate the same in character with all other transitions in nature; the 
border land would be occupied with semi-animate materials and semi-mineral 
vegetables or animals, with instances of equivocal life and products of doubtful 
organization. Whereas, from the highest to the very lowest organism, even to 
the primordial utricle and cell, the phenomena of life are distinct and unques- 
tionable. It is trut! that geologists have to deal with certain form.-* of doubtful 
organization found in the lowest rocks, but in these instances the difficulty arises 
from the changes through which the fossils have passed. There may b^ reason 
to doubt whether certain appearances truly indicate organic remains; but thern 
is nothing to indicate that life, in the Silurian ages, was less distinct than it is 
now. 

The above argument for the specialty of the vital principle, derived from the 
unparalled solution of continuity in nature just at the point where life commences, 
demands for its full illustration rather a volume than a mere notice in a brief 
paper. Its force, if it have any, is evidently acquired from facts revealed by the 
very researches which have led sorn'; to form an opposite conclusion. 

Again, if vitality is analogous to, or correlative with, the known forces, we 
might expect to find at aM events some resemblance existing between their re- 
spective properties and modes of action Now the results of the action of heat, 



382 VITALITY. 

electricity, cliemical affinity, &c., on various forms of matter have been much 
studied, and a good deal is known about them. Yet among all these results no 
single instance can be found' resembling the commencement of the functions of 
vitality. It is, however, admitted that from the outset the vital principle works 
harmoniously with and by means of the known forces ; so that much of that 
which was wont to be ascribed to vital force is now known to be a chemical 
process brought about by the agency of light and heat. But the question is 
not Avhat light, heat, &c., and vitality can do conjointly, but what light, heat, 
&c., can do without the presence of vitality; and the reply must, I think, be 
unfavorable to the correlation which is supposed to exist between vitality and 
the known forces. 

It may be replied that none of the imponderable forces has ever been alleged 
to be the force of life ; yet if the latter force is correlative with any of the former, 
could it behave so differently 1 For example, the known forces act universall} ; 
there is no kind of matter that is not at all tinoies affected by heat, light, elec- 
tricity, and chemical affinity ; on the other hand, the force of life stops suddenly 
and definitely at a limit which excludes a large proportion of existing matter. 

We may now pass again to the alternative. If vitality be not sui generis, it 
must be something analogous to the agencies with which we are acquainted.. 
Now of these agents collectively the most certain thing that we can say is, that 
they are strictly obedient to fixed laws; that under similar circumstances simi ar 
results invariably follow. So precise and constant is the operation of this rule 
that, under favorable conditions, we are able to infer the antecedent from the 
knowledge of the effect, with as much accuracy as we can predict the effect from 
the knowledge of the antecedent. We are quite certain that no portion of <i 
result, however minute, can have been produced without a corresponding char- 
acter having existed in the antecedent. It is not contended that we are able to 
trace otherwise than very imperfectly the remoter antecedents of the facta 
observed in inanimate nature, but we are convinced that everywhere the supre- 
macy of law is absolute. 

If, for example, we could trace the history of a drop of water which trickles 
down the window pane, we should find that its volume, its direction, its tempe- 
rature, and all its other characters were derived from atmospheric and other 
agencies; and if the history of the drop could be submitted to a suitable kind 
of examination, it would yield up to us the exact qualitative and quantitative 
characters of all the forces which had collected it and sent it on its course. 
These forces would indicate their antecedents, till it might be seen that our drop 
was the inevitable and exact result of meteorological and chemical and mechan- 
ical changes and actions that had been going on continuously from the Silurian 
ages, and for we know not how long previously. 

Nor would the whole history of the drop, however remote its starting point, 
present any very complicated or difficult facts. Some of its particles may have 
come from the antipodes, or have belonged to the polar snows; others, in a state 
of decomposition, may have assisted to lift a balloon or have been breathed by 
an icthyosaurus, yet they were never for an instant beyond the grasp of those 
known laws which in the end brought them together to be a drop; every step in 
the whole course being, with the utmost precision, dependent upon the previ- 
ous one. 

Those who do not admit the vital principle to be a thing sui generis must 
assign to it a place under the dominion of laws, the rigorous character of the 
operations of which I have endeavored to illustrate.* If the consequence of 
such an allocation can be shown to be difficulties unparalleled in magnitude, 
something will be done towards proving that the allocation is a wrong one, and 
that the vital principle is a thing not subject to the laws of ordinary forces. 

* Be it remembered, once for all, that on this point there can be no playing fast or loose to 
suit the occasion. Vitality is, or is not, subject to the exact laws of nature. 



VITALITY 383 

Such difficulties arise in various directions when we begin to apply the laws 
which govt-rn things inanimate to thi^ phenomena of life. 

It is well known that the common hydra may be reproduced by a small por- 
tion of its body severed from the i-est, or even by a portion of one of its tentacles. 
On the supposition that known forces, or forces aualngous to these, are alone 
concerned in this reproduction, it follows that in the severed portion must have 
existed physical peculiarities corresponding with every part of the entire animal ; 
or, in other words, that the prototype of the perfect form to be evolved must have 
been in the particle capable of being thus developed; for known forces have no 
specific predilections of this kind, and except the bit contained that which 
could initiate the development in a particular direction, there is no conceivable 
reason why these forces should develop it into a hydra more than into an amoeba 
or a rotifer. 

On similar grounds the seed must contain the perfect initium of the future 
plant to its most minute organs. The color spot on the petal of a pelargonium 
could in no conceivable way have been produced through the agencies of chem- 
ical affinities, heat, electricity, and the like, except from the existence of some 
corresponding physical starting point in the seed. This is admitted by some 
who question the existence of a vital principle. 

On the other hand, it may freely be admitted that if this wonderfully compli- 
cated structure did exist in the seed, it is by no means certain that we shr.uld 
be able to discover any traces of it. Our being unable to find it is no proof that 
it may not be there, unless we can show that in our investigation of the seed we 
have detected the ultimate forms of matter. 

Here it is important to define what is meant by the existence, in the embryo 
prototype, of a structure corresponding in all respects with the future animal or 
plant to be developed. It is not contended that in the seed, for instance, the 
prototype must fix in every respect the form and dimensions of the future plant; 
for in the course of growth the plant is submitted to the variable influences of 
heat and moisture and light, and these will affect its ultimate condition, or it 
may suffer distortion from the attacks of insects or from mechanical pressure. 
Still, under all these possible influences, every portion, every fibre of the living 
plant will be what it would not have been but from some peculiar character in 
the seed which initiated its production. 

There is not a leaf on an oak tree but must have had its own share in the 
acorn from which the tree sprang. For let us remember we are trying th,;* 
consequences of the utter exclusion of a vital principle as a special thing; M'e have 
only to do with the results of the actions of known forces, which have no more 
tendency to produce a leaf than to produce an animal, except from the direction 
given to their energies by the original inilium. In the action of these forces the 
result indicates the antecedent as much as the antecedent the result. It matters 
not how many steps backward we have to go. The leaf takes its character 
from the bud, not, let us remember, by the influence of a vital force, but by a 
process of development brought about by heat, electricity, light, moisture, car- 
bonic acid, &c., acting on the bud Then, I submit, the leaf in all its parts, 
down to its veins and stomata, must have been initiated by some special physical 
character in the bud. What have heat, electicity, &c., to do with forming veins 
and stomata? Given the proper nucleus, these forces are quite competent to 
develop any number of organs, but no particle of the leaf must fail of having 
had its type in the bud, else, instead of that particle, there would have been an 
hiatus, or something of a different, kind. 

The bud imposes the same conditions on the twig ; but, in fact, the conditions 
multiply as we recede, for the twig has to furnish the starting points for the 
bud and all its leaves; the twig, in like manner, looks back to the bough, till, 
by the time we arrive at the acorn, it is useless to attempt to burden the mind 
with thinking of all its littl shell must contain.' Yet we have only gone back 



384 VITALITY. 

a single generation. That acorn was itself borne on an oak, which sprang from 
an acorn ; which must have held the type of the types in the second acorn, and 
of every leaf of the tree which the second acorn produced. In fact, if we con- 
ceive the oaks of the world to have sprung from a single acorn, on the hypothesis 
of those who deny the specialty of the vital principle, that acorn must have 
had in itself the types of all the oaks that have ever been produced; for agencies 
like those of electricity, heat, &c., can only work upon what they find; and if 
there should be a bud on the last oak that had not its representative in the first 
acorn, that bud would be a result without a corresponding antecedent. 

Let us remark that the difficulty we here encounter arises from the peculiar 
manner in which life is transmitted from living things to their successors. No 
difficulties of this kind meet us in the history of the drop of water, though we 
saw that it had a history reaching back to the very limits of time. Its parti- 
cles may have been many times round the world ; some of its parts may have 
been ice, or steam, or free oxygen and hydrogen. The changes they may have 
passed through quite exceed our calculation, but they were either chemical or 
mechanical; and though the series is long, the terms are simple — there is no 
accumulation of difficulty. In the case of crystals the nucleus is the requisite 
initium, or rather the molecules of the mineral substance have characters suffi- 
cient to determine the form of the crystal. But the crystal is homogeneous, and 
has no special organs such as are possessed by plants and animals. The pro- 
duction of such an organ as the eye from the mere development of physical 
peculiarities pertaining to the germinal vesicle and spot can hardly be conceived 
to be possible. 

In fact, the notion that every seed contained the perfect plant in miniature 
belonged to a former age, and has long been regarded as exploded; yet it seems 
to me to be an inevitable conclusion if nothing is concerned in the germination 
and subsequent growth of the seed but such as are of the nature of light, heat, 
electricity, &c. It is, however, certain that the seed possesses vitality; and 
without attempting to define what the vital principle may be, it appears reason- 
able to assign to it a certain special directive agency, by virtue of which it is 
enabled to apply the ever-present forces of heat, actinism, &c., in the construction 
of a plant of its own proper species. But it is manifest that a vitality thus endued 
cannot be correlative with any of the known imponderable forces. 

Another point worthy of attention is the stability of form and structure ob- 
servable through many generations of the same species. Whatever may be the 
wondrous exactness of the embryo prototype, the accidental influences of heat, 
moisture, light, &c., in the course of growth are so great that it is hardly possible 
to conceive that, with only the physical character of the embryo (itself produced 
under these varymg agencies) to determine the succeeding form, similarity 
should be preserved through so many ages and in so many collateral lines of 
descent 

The termination of life, on the supposition that the vital principle is analogous 
to known forces, ought to yield indications of some kind or other. Death is a 
common event, and one that lies completely open to observations of all kinds. 
In the animal world it is in our power to produce death under almost any con- 
ditions we may choose as most favorable for investigation; and it. is an event so 
interesting that the discovery of its nature would be considered the greatest 
achievement of the intellect of man; yet the nature of death is absolutely un- 
known. The most delicate tests for indicating minute changes in electrical, 
thermal, and other conditions have been applied at the moment of death, and 
have shown no sign. Now it is certain of the forces of heat, light, motion, 
&c , that they are absolutely indestructible; they may be converted one into 
another, but they cannot cease to exist. If the vital principle was analogous to 
these agencies it might escape in any one of them; but of this no well-ascer- 
tained trace has been observed in any investigation of the phenomena of death. 



VITALITY. 385 

The uniformity of the period through which life extends in any given species 
is a result that no one would anticipate if the vital principle be of the nature of 
the known forces. The physical elements of animals are said to undergo an 
entire renewal in the course of a few years. Surely, then, with renewed mate- 
rials to work upon, and with something akin to the imponderables to do the work, 
animals should never grow old. Why should they — any more than oxygen 
should lose its vigor Jind grow tired of uniting with hydrogen? 

We have now noticed some of the considerations which appear to favor the 
supposition that the vital principle is a thing sui generis: 

1st. The unparalleled hiatus which exists between things animate and things 
inanimate. 

2d. The great dissimilarity between the properties of the imponderables and 
those of vitality. 

3d. The diflSculty arising from the hypothesis that the embryo of a living thing 
is developed only by agencies analogous with known forces. 

4th. The permanence of form and structure observable during many genera- 
tions of the same species. 

5th. The absence of any indications as to what becomes of the vital principle 
at death. 

6th. The periodicity of life. 

It is not contended that these considerations amount to a demonstrative proof 
Ihat the vital principle is a thing sui generis, but the question naturally arises, 
how far, supposing our conclusion to be a right one, a demonstrative proof is 
possible. 

An instance somewhat parallel may be found in the field of natural theology, 
in which is assumed, as a starting point, the existence of a first Supreme Cause, 
whose nature is beyond all comprehension ; certain facts are adduced which 
agree with this assumption ; also, its rejection is shown to involve many great 
difficulties; but all this is not proof; and in fact proof here seems to be out of 
the question, for the simple reason that whatever that might be of which the 
existence could be proved, it would not be the Infinite One. In logic, as in me- 
chanics, action and reaction are equal, and the very locus standi required by a 
proof, in the thing to be proved, puts demonstration in this case out of the 
question. Similarly, if the existence of vitality as a distinct thing were capable 
of being demonstrated by direct proof, the vital principle must be of the nature 
of other agencies, which is contrary to the original hypothesis. 

It Avould be very interesting to trace the course of those discoveries in physi- 
ology which have led some eminent observers to class vitality with other known 
forces. It cannot be denied that a very large number of facts connected with 
the phenomena of life, formerly supposed to be attributable only to the unde- 
fined agency of the vital principle, are now accounted for on principles which 
are pu.rely scientific. For example: the constituents of some of the proximate 
elements of organic substances, such as starch, albumen, &c., were known long 
ago ; but the power to combine these constituents so as to produce the proximate 
elements was regarded as being possessed by the vital principle alone, the work- 
ing of which in the formation of the proximate elements could, it was thought, 
by no means be imitated in the laboratory. This is now known to be an error; 
the chemist by his science does that which before was cqnsidered to be th<, 
peculiar function of the vital principle. In these and many other instances it 
has been proved that the aid of the vital principle has been unnecessarily invoked 
to account for results explicable on scientific grounds. 

In all this we have a parallel to that which has taken place in the more ex- 
tensive field of the cosmos. Yet there are some who are conscious that if it 
were possible to trace the existing state of things by a regular series of scientific 
deductions to a nebular condition of the universe, no approach would be made 
thereby to the oossibility of dispensing with a first Supreme Cause. 
25 s 66 



386 VITALITY. 

It is, however, abundantly evident- that the great Originator of nature has 
chosen to accomplish His purpose by a wondrous succession of fixed laws, open 
to our investigation, and revealing depth beyond depth to a most remote and 
obscure profundity. 

With this fact before us, on the hypothesis that the force of life, like its 
Author, possesses an unknown, perhaps an unknowable nature, we should not 
expect its interposition to be conspicuous ; we should, I think, expect its agency 
to be executed only behind a succession of fixed laws, forming a vista, having 
its termination almost lost in the distance. The natural evidence in the two 
cases must of necessity, as we have seen, be of the same character, not direct 
nor demonstrative, but implied and inferential. 

Whatever weight may be due to the considerations here urged in favor of the 
specialty of the vital principle, at all events they answer these expectations and 
conditions. Those arguments on which most stress has been laid arise at points 
where, if evidence be possible, any one who thinks at all on the subject 
would expect to find it. Something altogether unusual in nature marks the 
boundary of the province in which life-force prevails ; and the phenomena of life 
do not submit to be accounted for under the rigid laws which govern the appli- 
cation of all forces that are known. 



APPENDIX. 



BY THE SECRETARY. 



In the early study of mechanical and physiological phenomena, the energy 
which was exhibited by animals, or, in other words, their power to perform what 
is technically called work, that is to overcome the inertia and change the form 
of matter, was referred to the vital force. A more critical study of these phe- 
nomena has, however, shown that this energy results from the mechanical power 
stored away in the food and materials which the body consumes ; that the body 
is a machine for applying and modifying power, precisely similar to those ma- 
chines invented by man for a similar purpose. Indeed, it has been shown by 
accurate experiments that the amount of energy developed in animal exertion 
is just in proportion to the material consumed. To give a more definite idea of 
this, we may state the general fact that matter may be considered under two 
aspects, namely, matter in a condition of power, and matter in a state of entire 
inertness. For example, the weight of a clock or the spring of a watch when 
wound up is in a state of power, and in its running down gives out, tick by tick, 
an amount of power precisely equal to the muscular energy expended in winding 
it up. When the weight or the spring has run down, it is then in a condition of 
inertness, and will continue in this state, incapable of producing motion, unless it 
be again put in a condition of power by the application of an extraneous force. 
Again, coal and other combustible bodies consist of matter in a condition of power, 
and in their running down into carbonic acid and water, during their combustion, 
evolve the energy exhibited in the operations of the steam engine. The coni- 
bustible material may be considered the food of the steam engine, and experi- 
ments have been made to ascertain the relative economy in the expenditure of 
a definite amount of food in the natural machine and the artificial engine. The 
former has been found to waste less of the motive power than the latter. 

In pursuing this trainof investigation the question is asked, "Whence does 
the coal or food derive its power?" The answer is, that these substances are 



VITALITY. 387 

derived from the air by tlie decomposing agency of the impulses from the sun, 
and that when burned in the engine or consumed in the body they are again re- 
solved into air, giving out in this resolution an amount of energy equivalent to 
that received from the sun during the process of their growth. All the mate- 
rials of the crust of the earth, with the exception of coal and organic matter, 
are in a state of inertness, and, like the burnt slag of the furnace, have expended 
their energy, and in this condition of inertness they would forever remain, were 
it not for extraneous influences, principally the sun. 

From this point of view the phenomena we have been considering consist 
merely in the transfer of power from one body to another, and from a wide gen- 
eralization from all the facts the conclusion has been arrived at that energy is 
neither lost nor gained in the transfer; and, pursuing the same train of refleciiou, 
we are finally led to the result that all power is derived from the primordial, 
unbalanced attraction and repulsion of the atoms of matter. 

In the gradual development of the principles we have given there has been 
a tendency to extend the views we have presented too far, and to refer all the 
phenomena of life to the mechanical or chemical forces of nature. Although it 
has been, as we think, conclusively proved that from food, and food alone, come 
all the different kinds of physical force which are manifest in animal life, yet, 
as the author of the preceding paper has shown, there is something else neces- 
sary to life, and this something, though it cannot properly be called a force, 
may be denominated the vit;!l principle. Without the influence of this princi- 
ple the undirected physical powers produce mechanical arrangements and assume 
a state of permanent equilibrium by bringing matter into crystalline forms or into 
a condition of simple aggregation, while under its mysterious influence the par- 
ticles of matter are built up into an unstable condition in the form of organic 
molecules. While, therefore, we may refer the changes which are here produced, 
or, in other words, the work performed, to the expenditure of the physical powers 
of heat, chemical action, &c., we must admit the necessity of something beyond 
these, which, from the analogy with mental phenomena, we may denominate 
the directing principle. Although we cannot perhaps positively say in the 
present state of science that this directing principle will not manifest itself when 
all the necessary conditions are present, yet in the ordinary phenomena of life 
which are everywhere exhibited around us, organization is derived from vitality 
and not vitality from organization. That the vital or directing principle is not a 
physical power which perfoi ms work, or that it cannot be classed with heat or 
chemical action, is evident from the fact that it may be indefinitely extended — 
from a single acorn a whole forest of oaks may result. 

The principles of which we have here endeavored to give an exposition are 
strikingly illustrated in the transformation of the agg when subjected to a slightly 
elevated temperature. The egg of a bird, for example, as we know, consists 
of a congeries of organized molecules or vesicles, enclosed in a calcareous shell, 
thickly punctured with minute holes, through which the oxygen of the air can 
enter, and vapors and gases escape. Let us observe the difi'erence of changes 
which take place in two newly-laid eggs, one of which is not possessed with 
vitality, and the other is endowed with this mysterious principle. Both of these 
eggs are in a condition of power, the carbon, hydrogen, nitrogen, sulphur, &c., 
of which their organized molecules are composed, arc in a state of unstable 
equilibrium, and ready, when set in motion by a slight increase of temperature, 
to rush into the more stable compounds of carbonic acid, vapor of water, &c., by 
chemical attraction. While the eggs are in an unchanged condition they possess 
the same amount of what is called potential energy, which in both cases will be 
expended in the transformation of the materials ; but how difierent will be the 
effects produced. In the case of the egg deprived of vitality, all the organized 
molecules will be converted into gases and vapors, with the development of heat 
and au elastic energy, in some cases sufficient to burst the shell, the power 



388 VITALITY. 

originally stored away in the egg being thus dissipated in the production of 
chemical and mechanical changes. In the case of the egg possessed of vitality, 
a portion of the organized molecules will also run down into vapors and gases, 
which will gradually escape through the perforations of the shell, and will thus, 
as in the previous case, evolve an equivalent amount of power ; hut this, instead 
of being dissipated in mere mechanical or chemical effects, will be expended, 
under the directing principle of vitality, in elevating to a higher degree of or- 
ganization the molecules of the remainder, and in transforming them into organs 
of sensation, perception, and locomotion ; in short, in the production of a ma- 
chine precisely similar to those constructed by the intellectual operations of man 
when guiding or directing the powers of nature. If we examine the transform- 
ation as it goes on from day to day, we shall see that it does not consist in a 
simple aggregation of particles in the production of the organs we have men- 
tioned, hut in preliminary arrangements, such as canals, and provisional, after- 
wards to be obliterated, and the adoption of means for a more remote end, the 
whole indicating an intention realized in the sentient, living, moving animal. 

This vital principle, from strict analogy, cannot be considered as an essential 
property of matter, since it is only continued by transmission from one living 
being to another. It is true that it ceases to manifest itself when a slight de- 
rangement takes place in the organized material with which it is connected, and 
death ensues ; but this is precisely analogous to the manifestation of the think- 
ing, willing principle within us, the existence of which is revealed to us by our 
own consciousness as a primordial truth, beyond which nothing can be more 
certain. 



INSTRUCTIONS FOR COLLECTING LAND AND 
FRESH-WATER SHELLS. 



BY DR. JAMES LEWIS, OF MOHAWK, N. Y. 



Explorations. — Before the collector can enter the field with much certainty as 
to the .luticipated result of his labors, it maybe necessary for him to satisfy him- 
self that there are in the district about him shells enough to offer encourage- 
ment. It will be found, generally, that those sections of the country that have 
a dry sandy soil are unfavorable for the production of molluscs. Regions in 
which pines abound are proverbially of this character, and here the efforts of the 
collector are usually but indifferently rewarded. In the moist alluvial soils of 
limestone formations are found the most favorable conditions for the production 
of molluscs. This is more notably true with regard to land shells; aquatic 
species are also affected similarly, but less conspicuously, by the character of the 
soil. But it will almost invariably be observed that waters deficient in lime do 
not produce shells as perfect nor in as great numbers as waters charged with this 
earth. 

Land sJiells. — With a few exceptions, relating to some of the smaller species, 
and also a few species of semi-aquatic habits, the land shells of this country are 
found most abundantly in the wooded alluvial regions, where during the day 
they are concealed under fragments of fallen trees, bits of bark, chips, &c., 
sometimes concealed under leaves or iu the tufts of rank growths of moss. 
Some species will be occasionally found in the moist debris of shaly rocks in 
ravines. Species peculiar to the southern States are sometimes met with on 
.■ shrubs and trees. But few species living in the northern or central portions ot 
the country are often so found. Some species of semi-aquatic habits, though 
occasionally seen on the rank vegetation along rivers, (sometimes several feet 
from the ground,) are more frequently observed under bits of flood wood, leaves, 
&c., near the muddy slopes of streams or ponds, or in the vicinity of water, 
where they may find concealment either in grass or under the shade of aquatic 
plants. 

Among our most minute species are those that delight in wet grass lands, or 
in localities that are usually moist during a very considerable portion of the 
year. They are sometimes found in such localities congregated in hundreds 
under stray fragments of boards, bits of wood, &c. 

As different sections of the country offer constantly varying conditions affect- 
ing the habits of land shells, it may be expected that some species that usually 
are found in such stations as have just been indicated may in exceptional in- 
stances be found under circumstances where the collector might least expect to 
discover them. It accordingly becomes the collector to be at all times on the 
alert, and to inspect every variety of station. By doing so, he will often unex- 
pectedly discover desirable species, and acquire information respecting their 
habits, of more value to him than any suggestions that might be conveyed to 
him by a volume of printed instructions. 

As examples it may be stated that in and around dilapidated buildings, where 
fragments of bricks and mortar cover the ground, large numbers of the smaller 
species of Helix, Pupa, CarycJium, Sec, will be found. They adhere to the un- 
der surface of a porous brick in preference to a fragment of gneiss, limestone, or 
other rock. Also the cavity of a decayed tree or stump, when examined in the 



390 COLLECTING LAND AND FRESH-WATER SHELLS. 

early days of spring, will reward the searcher abundantly. Kicli harvest may 
also be frequently gathered by laying boards upon the grass or ground, wetting 
them previously, unless immediately after a rain. On taking them up after a 
night's exposure large numbers of shells will often be found attached to the un- 
der surface. 

Fresh-water shells.— ^\i\\q searching for those species of land shells that are 
found usually near water the collector will often have his attention drawn to 
air-breathing molluscs that are properly designated aquatic mollusca. The 
habits of some species of this class are such that by one unacquainted with 
them they might be confounded with land shells. Many of these species have 
a habit of crawling out of the water, remaining on the moist mud without in- 
convenience. They will also sometimes be found on the stems and leaves ot 
aquatic plants, or on other projecting substances several inches from the surface 
of the water. In their habits as a class they are adapted to a wide range of con- 
ditions, so that they will be found in lakes, ponds, rivers, canals, ditches, stagnant 
pools, swamps, and small rivulets, though some species seem to be adapted to a 
narrow range of conditions ; the class, however, has its representatives over the 
whole continent. Though by far the greater number of species of molluscs be- 
longing to this class prefer shallow water, feeding on the vegetation that abounds 
in such stations, there are a few exceptions in which species are found adapted 
to deep water, in which it is improbable they can reach the surface to respire 
the air. The collector will find many species accessible to him along the margins 
of water. Others will require the aid of a boat, especially such as arc found 
feeding on the weeds in lakes and rivers. To discover some of the minute species 
found under such circumstances it may sometimes be advantageous to gather 
handsful of the weeds and gently lift them out of the water. If the operation 
be rudely performed, the molluscs may be disturbed so as to detach themselves. 
Many species will be found adhering to the grass-like plants that grow in 
streams. Others adhere to the stems of flag and bullrush, and may be dis- 
covered very readily by pulling up the plants by the roots, taking care to per- 
form the operation gently and deliberately. Of analogous habits with some of 
the above are certain small species found concealed under stones just below 
low-water mark in rivers. They are sometimes also found adhering to larger 
shells. This class embraces only small cup-like shells — "fresh-water limpets." 

Aside from the air-breathing aquatic molluscs, we have others whose respira- 
tion is aquatic. The necessities of the respiration of the water -breathing mol- 
luscs restricts them to a narrower range of circumstances than those to which 
the air-breathing molluscs can conform. Hence they are not usually found in 
stagnant waters— certainly not in waters of limited area, where impurities are 
generated by decomposing substances. The largest shells of this class are found 
in the swamps along the rivers of some of the southern States, and are objects 
of interest on account of their habits as well as on account of their value in the 
cabinet. In their season of active life they are found feeding on aquatic plants. 
Inhabiting localities subject to drying they burrow in the mud as the water 
diminishes. The collector will for convenience seek them when they are active. 
Another class, smaller than that just mentioned, but affording a greater number 
of species and varieties, is more widely distributed, being found not only in the 
waters of the various States, but also in Canada. Tbey inhabit rivers, lakes, 
ponds, and canals, and when circumstances favor their habits they will be found 
most abundantly burrowing just beneath the surface of the soft mud near the 
shores, where undoubtedly they are attracted by more abundant supplies of 
food, and perhaps also by a more agreeable temperature. They will often be 
found in the muddy banks of rivers in great numbers, congregated at the margin 
of the water. In canals where conditions of food and temperature are very 
favorable, they attain a more luxuriant development than in neighboring rivers. 
Some localities are remarkable for affording varieties and monstrosities. Next 



nOLLECTING LAND AND FRESH-WATER SHELLS. 391 

to this class in size is one that embraces a large number of species included in 
several genera and sub-genera. The shells vary in form from a slender turret, to 
a globular form, variously colored, and sometimes curiously ornamented with 
tubercles, ridges, and carinations. With a very few exceptions these interest- 
ing shells are found only in rivers and perennial streams. The different genera 
of this class seem to be adapted 'to certain raoditications of conditions. Some 
of these molluscs prefer muddy, sloping river-banks, whei'e they crawl in the 
comparatively still water on the surface of the mud. Others prefer the rapid 
current among the rocky portions of streams, where they are found adhering to 
the surfaces of the rocks. The habits of nearly all molluscs of this class are 
such as bring them to the shallower portions of the water they inhabit. They 
can often be reached from the shore with the hand. 

By gradual transitions these genera, with their numerous species, are followed 
by other and smaller genera, some of which are of comparatively limited range ; 
others are widely distributed over the whole country. Nearly all of them have 
habits in some respects similar to the last preceding class, and will be found on 
the muddy bottoms of shallow portions of rivers, lakes, &c., or feeding on 
aquatic plants. The small size of many of these sliells renders them some- 
what difficult to discover, unless the collector has expedients for securing them 
with ease and certainty. 

Bivalve shells next claim attention, and for convenience they will be consid- 
ered under two classes, thougli embracing several distinct genera and species. A 
class of shells (none of which ever attain dimensions much exceeding half an 
inch) inhabits nearly every perennial stream having a muddy bottom; found 
also in stagnant waters, lakes, ponds, canals, and, indeed, in every station fitted, 
for mollusc life. Some species inhabit stations subject to drying during a por- 
tion of the year, and careless observers have been deceived on finding them 
alive in their dried Jiahitat, and have inferred they were bivalve laud shells . 
All the shells of this class barrow just beneath the surface of the mud, and are 
usually found in greatest abundance near the margin of the water, or where 
there is but little depth. This class embraces some species remarkable for their 
fragility, others equally remarkable for their minuteness. They are distributed 
over all the explored portions of the country. 

Fresh-water muscles. — This class of shells embraces several genera, which on 
account of the great number of species contained in them will eventually be 
more minutely classified in sub-genera. No country in the world produces a 
greater variety of forms in this class of shells than the United States. In the 
northeastern portion of the United States the number of species found is com- 
paratively small ; but in the south and west the number of species becomes 
great, and the variety and beauty discoverable in the almost endless species 
make this class one of great interest to the collector. These molluscs inhabit 
lakes, rivers, and canals. Stagnant water is unfavorable to them. They afford 
abundant food for the muskrat and mink, who collect piles of shells on the shore 
where they bring the molluscs to feed upon them. The shells left by the musk- 
rat sometimes serve as a resort for the collector who is not critical to have the 
best of specimens, while they should serve to point out to him that there are 
good specimens, alive, not far distant. Except in shallow portions of rivers it 
is sometimes difficult, howevei', to find muscles ; but where the water is not so 
deep but that a person may with security wade in it, it is comparatively easy 
to discover them. They will usually be found partly buried in the mud or 
gravel, only enough of the shell projecting to enable the mollusc to extend the 
syphons of his breathing apparatus into the water above him. A little practice 
will enable the collector to detect the projecting shell. In lakes and ponds, 
where the water is not too deep, the collector may readily discover the objects 
of his search from a boat. 

Having thus in general terms given such suggestions as will enable the col- 



392 COLLECTING LAND AND FEESH- WATER SHELLS. 

lector to seek stells understandingly, it will now be proper to speak more par- 
ticularly of 

Collecting. — To obtain land shells the collector needs for the larger species 
a suitable tin canister, or a number of them, (the cover bein'g perforated to ad- 
mit air,) to serve as a receptacle for his gatherings. He will soon learn to dis- 
tinguish immature shells, and unless they are to serve some special purpose it 
may be well not to secure many such, as, by clearing a station of all that may 
be found in it, future visits to the same place may not be remunerative. For 
small shells that will not admit of the same modes of treatment applied for the 
preservation of large shells, the collector should be provided with a small bottle 
of alcohol in which to put them. He will find his labor facilitated if he is pro- 
vided with a pair of light, elastic pliers, the jaws of which are hollowed a little 
so as to embrace any small object taken between them. With such pliers very 
small and fragile shells may be picked up and transferred to the bottle with little 
risk of breaking them, and with much more rapidity than with the fingers alone. 
The pliers will be found very useful also for handling other small shells. 

Such aquatic species as are found where it is most convenient to pick them 
one by one, may be handled with the pliers ; others that are attached to the 
stems of aquatic plants, especially the class called fresh-water limpets, can best 
be managed with tlie blade of a knife, which, being slid under them, serves to 
convey them to the bottle. 

Other aquatic species may be rapidly gathered by means of a perforated tin 
dipper attached to a wooden handle, which may be jointed like a fishing rod, so 
as to be available in a variety of stations. The dipper can be used to secure 
nearly all classes of aquatic shell animals when they happen to be within 
reach, especially those that burrow in mud, as well as those that crawl on its 
surface. It may be used among weeds and aquatic plants on which molluscs 
are feeding. 

A bucket partly filled with water is a suitable receptacle for the shells taken 
with the dipper. In taking the shells that are found in mud, much care is some- 
times requisite in sifting out the mud to avoid crushing fragile species. Per- 
haps a better mode in some instances is to be provided with a large culinary 
sieve through which to sift the mud, the tin dipper serving simply as a dredge. 
The sieve, when filled with mud and shells, is to be carefully manipulated in 
the water until all the mud and sand is washed away. The sifting process may 
be repeated upon fresh dredgings as often as is necessary, or until the collector 
has as many shells as he desires. The. collector will find more eligible for his 
purpose a net made of wire gauze, of from twelve to sixteen wires to the inch. 
A convenient size and form will require an aperture for the mouth of the net 
about four by eight inches ; the depth of the net eight inches. It should be 
attached to a jointed handle for drawing it along the surface of the mud to be 
dredged ; the margin that enters the mud should have a sharp metallic edge, 
like a hoe. The net will require a sweep of from one to six feet to fill it with 
mud ; it is then turned over, mouth upwards, and while yet in the water the 
mud is sifted out. The shells remaining are carefully turned into a bucket of 
water. With a net of this character the collector may stand in one position and 
dredge a large area in a very short time, often securing shells in great abundance 
and with comparatively little effort. The saving in time and labor can only be 
appreciated by trial. 

For collecting fresh-water muscles, when they are found where they can with- 
out much inconvenience be picked up by the hand, the collector may dispense 
with all aids but a basket in which to place his treasures: As he will find 
species of varying degrees of fragility, all more or less easily broken if care- 
lessly handled, he will observe to place his shells carefully in his basket, and 
not let them break each other by rude contact. In stations where it may be 
inconvenient or impossible to wade, a rake, provided with numerous teeth set 



COLLECTING LAND AND FRESH-WATER SHELLS. 393 

close together and having a long handle, has sometimes been used with the most 
gratifying success. In lakes or ponds of moderate depth, where the bottom is 
readily seen, the dipper sometimes answers if the bottom is mud. In gravelly 
bottom a pair of tongs, the blades of which are like huge spoon-bowls, may be 
used with certainty. The tongs should be made so as to be attached to a suf- 
ficiently long rod or jointed pole for a handle, the moveable blade being operated 
by a string held in one hand, while the other hand guides the instrument to its 
work. 

It is often the habit of the inexperienced collector to content himself with 
such specimens as from their attractiveness to his eye seem to bo all that is 
worth preserving. Such specimens alone fail to satisfy the wants of the natural- 
ist who extends his interest to every class of natural objects. For this and 
other equally important reasons the collector is earnestly recommended to secure 
specimens of every species that comes before him. If he cannot always obtain 
the best specimens he mny serve the interests of science sometimes by preserv- 
ing specimens that, in the presence of good living specimens, he would cast 
aside. Dead shells, though not always desirable in a collection of specimens 
may serve to point out to the collector where he can find living ones. Dead 
shells may be preserved if no others can be found. 

The collector often passes over species that are abundant at the moment, 
thinking he can obtain them at any time. This sometimes is a fallacious indul- 
gence, as the habits of many species are affected by inappreciable influences, 
and often those species which have been abundant cease to be so, much to the 
disappointment of the collector when, perhaps too late, he has learned they 
have a value and importance of which he might have availed himself in his cor- 
respondence with others. 

Preparation of specimens. — The larger land shells, the larger fluviatile gas- 
teropods, and the large bivalves may have their soft parts readily removed after 
having been boiled in water a few minutes. After the soft part's have been re- 
moved by means of a small metallic hook, each specimen should be well washed, 
inside and out, as far as practicable. A small syringe serves readily to rinse 
the inside of univalve shells. A bit of stick with a tuft of cotton twisted on 
it is often an indispensable aid in completing the process A tooth-brush is use- 
ful in washing the exterior of shells. Operculated shells should have the opercle 
replaced within the shell to which it belonged, and if necessary it may be re- 
tained in its natural position by means of a little thick mucilage. Large bivalves 
may be tied with a bit of yarn to hold the valves together ; or they may be 
wrapped in paper to secure the same object after the surface of the shell is dry 
and the hinge ligament is yet pliable. Care should be taken in the preparation 
of bivalves not to fracture the thin margins of the shell, nor to tear the epider- 
mal fringe. Indeed, the same care should be taken to preserve all shells as 
perfectly as possible. 

Small bivalves that cannot be submitted to the boiling treatment and after- 
wards closed, as recommended for muscles, and also any very small shells of 
any class, may be placed in alcohol for twenty-four hours, after which they may 
be dried in the shade on paper. They may be dried without the use of alco- 
hol, but then the soft parts are longer in drying, and require a longer time to 
become divested of the unpleasant odor of decomposition. The appearance of 
the shells is more cleanly after alcoholic treatment, for the reason that the soft 
parts of the molluscs are contracted into the smallest dimensions ther.-by. 

It sometimes becomes desirable to deanst^ the surface of small fluviatile shells, 
bivalves, and univalves, together. With just enough water to cover them in the 
bucket in which they were collected add as much clean, sharp sand as will equal 
the bulk of the shells. Agitate th • bucket for a few moments by a rotary and 
shaking motion. The friction of the shells and the sand on each other soon 
brightens the surface of the shells. The sand may subsequently be sifted away 



394 COLLECTINa LAND AND FEESH-WATER SHELLS. 

in water ; the shells may then be rinsed, when they are ready for final treat 
ment, with or without alcohol. 

Some shells of considerable size may have the soft parts removed after hav- 
ing been in alcohol a few hours ; but having been several days in alcohol (unless 
it is of low proof) the soft parts do not disengage so readily. Among the shells 
to which this mode of treatment best applies are land shells with an elevated 
spire, aquatic species with a short but elevated spire, and freshwater limpets. 

It is not recommended to retain shells in alcohol a great many days, unless if; 
be for the preservation of the soft parts for anatomical investigation. If too 
long retained in alcohol the shells acquire' a dark, smoky look that diminishes 
their beauty. 

INCIDENTAL REMARKS. 

W'th the result of his labor before him the collector desires such information 
respecting his shells as will enhance the pleasure and other advantages he ex- 
pects to derive from them. He also • desires that they should present, in the 
most obvious manner, all their intrinsic beauties. Perhaps he forgets that they 
are most beautiful as nature made them, and seeks to improve them by varnish- 
ing. Such shells as the collector designs to preserve in his own cabinet he may 
varnish if he pleases ; but should he desire to acquire other specimens by ex- 
changing his duplicates with a friend, let them be without varnish or any arti- 
ficial treatment other than judicious cleaning. 

In arranging a series of species in his cabinet the collector, if unacquainted with 
their names, may group his species according to those analogies and obvious 
resemblances that show their relations to each other. He should attach a label 
to each species, designating it by a number until he has opportunity to replace 
the number with the specific name. The label should have upon it the locality 
where found, and any other facts that might be of remarkable interest to the 
naturalist. The numbers he attaches to his species may serve as the means of 
ascertaining names by correspondence. Each species should be marked, so that 
no confusion may arise by displacement of labels. 

Should the collector find it convenient to correspond with some other person 
similarly engaged, or should he desire to transmit a package of shells to some 
friend or to some public institution, a few euggestions relative to packing shells 
for transportation may be of use. Obtain a sufficiently strong box of suitable 
capacity ; on the bottom should be laid a thin bed of soft hay, or some other 
suitable elastic material. The larger shells (if such are to form a part of the 
contents of the package) should form the lower tiers in packing. Each shell 
should be wrapped in paper, and the specimens should be so compactly stowed 
as not to shake about. The lighter shells should occupy the upper portion of 
the package, and those of a fragile nature should be protected from the possi- 
bility of fracture by being enveloped in cotton and enclosed in suitable small 
boxes. Small paper bags or cartridges may serve to contain minute species ; 
but a more satisfactory mode is to wrap them in cotton and put them in small 
paper boxes, such as may be purchased at any drug store. Each species should 
be appropriately labelled, giving, in legible characters, the generic and specific 
name of the shell, if known, after which should be written the name of the 
author by whom the species was published ; under this should follow the locality 
where found. Any vacant space at the top of the package may be filled with 
any light material that will serve to keep the contents of the package from 
shaking about after the box is closed. The top of the box should be carefully 
nailed secure, and plainly marked with the address of the person to whom it is 
to be forwarded, also designating the mode of conveyance for the guidance of 
parties to whom it is delivered for shipment. 



ON THE COLLECTION OF SPECIMENS OF MYRIA- 
PODS. PHx\LANGIi)^, &c. 



Academy of Natural Sciences, 

TMladelphia, February 13, 1866. 

Dear Sir : My excuse for troubling you with the following- communication 
must be my great desire to render more complete the already published mono- 
graphs of the North American myriapods or centipeds, and also to obtain mate- 
rial for a similar memoir on the phalangidje or "harvestmen" of the United States. 
As you are aware, the myriapods are divided into two great sub-orders, the more 
highly organized of which live on animal food, while others find their sustenance 
in decaying vegetable substances. These two sub-orders may be distinguished 
at a single glance by the most inexperienced eye ; the first, the true centipeds, 
by their flat body, each segment of which has but a single pair of legs, and then 
ahead, armed with a formidable pair of jaws ; the second, the millepeds by 
their body being more or less terete or cylindrical, with two pair of legs to each 
segment, and the jaws of their head not being very apparent. The former may 
be found under stones, logs, beneath the bark of dead trees, about Avood piles 
and out-houses, in fact, in almost every place which affords them shelter, and is 
not too wet. The larger species of this group are probably all known, but 
specimens, with the localities from which they have been obtained, are valuable, 
as they throw light on the problem of geographical distribution. Among the 
smaller species, at least the long, narrow- bodied species, (geophilidse,) there are 
probably many species still unknown, and of these I would especially solicit 
collections. 

The millepeds are to be looked for in decaying wood, beneath the bark of 
old logs, &c , as well as in similar situations with the last. The number of facts 
still unknown respecting these myriapods, and of species new to science, is 
probably very great, so that collections of them are even more valuable than 
those of the smaller centipeds. As in most other cases in natural history, the 
small specimens are the most valuable, affording the largest per cent, of un- 
known and rare species. . When a myriapod is captured it should be thrown 
into alcohol, the only precaution necessary being to have the alcohol very strong 
in the case of millepeds, since they are very apt to fall to pieces if the preserva- 
tive fluid is weak. It is not necessary to separate the species, but the general 
locality should always be marked both by a label pasted on the bottle, and also 
by one placed in the inside, the collector's name being distinctly written so as 
to facilitate acknowledgment. 

The phalangidiB, "harvestmen," or "daddy long-legs," of the schoolboys, resem- 
ble the true spiders, from which they are distinguished by the great length of 
their slender legs, by their abdomen being sesile, i. c, attached to the whole 
breadth of the anterior portion of the body, (the cephalothorax,) and unprovided 
with a spinning apparatus, as well as by their head, having a single pair of eyes, 
elevated on a common peduncle or process, and being armed with a pair of two- 
fingered mandibles. The female deposits her eggs in crevices, in Avails and 
rocks, beneath stones, &c., in the autumn, and then dies. The following spring 
the eggs are hatched and produce minute individuals, which reseinble the ma- 
ture specimen. These grow through the summer, and reach their full size iu 
the early autumn, when the sexes pair. They are preferably nocturnal in their 



396 A PLAN OF A RESEARCH UPON THE ATMOSPHERE. 

habits, generally hiding under stones, on walls, &c., during the day, and during 
the night huriting their food, which consists of flies, gnats, and other small in- 
sects. They do, however, sometimes hunt during even the brightest part of the 
day. They should be collected during the latter part of the summer and the 
early autumn, because at that time they are mature. The collector sliould look 
for them on the walls, and about the eaves of barns and out-houses, along stone 
and other fences, beneath stones in dry or even moist gravelly places, under 
sticks, fence-rails, logs, and the like in dry, grassy groves. In catching them 
care should be taken not to break their legs, and they should be dropped into a 
bottle containing very strong whiskey or ordinary alcohol, or spirits of wine. 
When practicable each species should be preserved separately in homoeopathic or 
other small phials, and an accurate account be kept of the localities in which 
they may be captured, and any observations on their habits will be especially 
valuable. After they have been put in spirits, no further care is necessary, ex- 
cept to see that the alcohol does not evaporate and leave them dry. 

Hoping that you will be able to obtain collections, I remain yours, respect- 
fully, 

H. C. WOOD, Jr., M. D. 

Professor Henry. 

[The Institution will be pleased to receive from its correspondents the speci- 
mens asked for by Dr. "Wood, to be placed in his hands for investigation. 

J. H.] 



A PLAN OF A RESEARCH UPON THE ATMOSPHERE. 



BY PROF. C. M. WETHERILL. 



Washington, D. C, July 24, 1865. 
Dear Sir : I beg leave to submit to your consideration the accompanying 
sketch of a plan for securing the advantages of a research upon the atmosphere 
in our country, which would be not only new, but fruitful of important practical 
results. The work upon which I was engaged last winter, viz., the ventilation 
of the Capitol extension, has impressed me with the necessity of this research, 
and I hope that it will meet your approval. 

I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant, 

CHARLES M. WETHERILL. 

Prof. Joseph Henry, Secretary Smithsonian Institution. 



The need of a researchufon the proportion of carhonic acid (and oxygen) in tJie 
atmosphere of the United States. 

Plants require carbonic acid, animals oxygen, for their existence ; hence an 
accurate determination of these constituents in the atmosphere is of vast im- 
portance, and the knowledge gained from such a research is of great value, both 
from a scientific and a practical point of view. The question has engaged the 
attention of scientists (in Europe) from the earliest period of modern chemistry, 
and its discussion has advanced step by step with the improvement of the 
methods of analysis. Through the labors of Gay Lussac, Humboldt, De Saus- 
sure, Dumas, Boussingault, Lewy, Schlagintweit, and others we are acquainted with 



A PLAN OF A EESEAECH UPON THE ATMOSPHERE. 397 

the proportion of oxygen and carbonic acid in the atmosphere, and the influence, 
upon the quantity of these constituents, of day and night, winter rfind summer, 
rain and drought, of storms, and of elevation. These results have been obtained 
for Europe, with the exception of Lewy's experiments in South America, upon an 
atmosphere subject to disturbances from the carbonic acid emitted from volcanoes. 

The natural tendency of a dense population and a sparse vegetation would 
be to increase the carbonic acid and to diminish the oxygen of the atmosphere ; 
hence, the United States being in this respect diflferent from Europe, it is of im- 
portance to know how our atmosphere difiers, as to these gases, from the air of the 
old country. The research has never been made in America for obvious reasonc. 

Beside, the increased knowledge in respect to the nature of the atmosphere 
which such a research would yieltl, important practical results would flow from 
it with regard to ventilation, to the hygiene of cities and of military hospitals, 
to agriculture and the clearing away of forests, &c. 

The examination of the ventilation of the Capitol extension, which has occu- 
pied my attention during the past six or seven months, has deeply impressed 
me with the great importance of experiments upon the atmospheric constituents, 
and practice in the kind of analyses required has led me to propose to co-operate 
with the Smithsonian Institution in the accomplishment of such a research. 

In this co-operation I will undertake the analysis of specimens of air collected 
by myself where located, and of such as may be procured by the Institution 
from different points in the United States, the localities to be settled by the 
meteorological experience of the Smithsonian Institution. I will bear the ex- 
pense of analysis myself, in respect to the determination of carbonic acid, and 
to a less extent of the oxygen. If, however, a large number of oxygen deter- 
minations are made, I would be glad if the Institution would furnish me with 
the apparatus of Regnault, or with some other improved one, in order to multi- 
ply the observations. 

[The investigation proposed by Dr. Wetherill is one of much interest, and as 
full confidence is placed in his skill as an analytic chemist, and his consciencious 
accuracy in the statement of the results of his experiments, the assistance required 
will be furnished by the Institution as soon as the Dr. is prepared to undertake 
the research. It is probable, however, that he cannot commence the work im- 
mediately, since some time will be required to enable him to become familiar with 
the duties of his new position as professor of chemistry in the Lehigh University. 

J. H.l 



AN ACCOUNT OF THE CRYOLITE OF GREENLAND. 



COMMUNICATED BY MESSRS. LEWIS & SONS. 



[Messrs. Lewis & Sons, of Philadelphia, the proprietors of the mine of cryolite 
described in the following article, have kindly supplied the Institution with a 
quantity of the mineral for the distribution of specimens to such institutions as 
may desire to add it to their cabinets. The Institution is also indebted to the 
same gentlemen for the account here given and a large map which accompanied it. 

The mineral cryolite derives its name (from xpooq, ice) from its property of 
melting in the flame of a candle. Its composition is Na. FI.|^ Al.^ ri.^=x Alu- 
minum 13.0 ; sodium 32.8 ; fluorine 54.2. 

It is valuable as an ore of aluminum, for when melted with sodium this metal 
is liberated from its combination with fluoiine, the result being aluminum and 
fluoride of sodium. 

Since the high price of sodium restricts the useful applications of aluminum 
and its alloys, cryolite has lately become important as a source of soda, consid- 
erable quantities of which, with alumina as an incidental product, are manufac- 
tured in Pennsylvania from this mineral.] 

Copenhagen, November 15, 1864. 

GrBNTLEMEN : After staying a year at the cryolite mines, the nature of which 
I have thus had good opportunity of learning, I can give you the following 
information about them, as they were at the time of my departure in the autumn 
of 1864. 

The cryolite mines are situated at Trigtut, (or Triktout,) on the south side of 
Arsut Fjord, in South Grreenland, 61° 13' north latitude and 48° 9' west longi- 
tude. The surface of the vein of cryolite was originally covered with a layer 
of clay, gravel and earth, which loose material is now chiefly removed, there 
remaining only in the most southern part of the area of cryolite, a part not yet 
perfectly uncovered. The boundaries of the vein toward the surrounding 
mountain is everywhere very conspicuous, with the exception of a part of its 
northwest side. 

The vein, the greatest length of which is about 600 feet, breadth about 150 
feet, and extent of which can be reckoned at about 53,000 cubic feet, is of 
two parts, one close to the Fjord, the other to the east, and separated by a rock 
from 5 to 15 feet high and about 100 feet broad. The western part is washed 
by a little bay going in from the Fjord along its whole extent ; this is now 
partly filled up, and will in time be perfectly separated from the sea, when the 
stone breakwater, now under construction, running in west-southwest and east- 
northeast direction, straight across the mouth of the bay, at a distance of about 
250 feet from the cryolite mine, is finished, and when the whole of the bay in- 
side the breakwater is filled up, which two works will in all probability be 
finished before the close of 1865. The rock bounding the vein is everywhere on 
the boundary line itself 10 to 15 feet high from west, and the south boundary 
rises tolerably quickly in towards land. The surrounding elevation is chiefly 
of granite, crossed in several parts by veins or layers running from northwest 
to south. 

The principal mineral of the vein is, of course, the cryolite,^ but as constai; 



ACCOUNT OF THE CRYOLITE OF GREENLAND. 399 

accompaniments we find quartz, iron-stone, lead ore, copperas, sulphur, arsenic, 
tin-stone, (the last two very seldom.) These substances are not evenly distributed 
through the whole mass, but the cryolite is partly found quite clean and unmixed ; 
while larger and smaller quantities are found containing more or less of the above- 
mentioned minerals. 

A strip of the vein only a few feet broad along the south and southwest bound- 
ary of the same is conspicuous for its richness in iron-stone and quartz, but espe- 
cially for lead ore and copperas. The surrounding mountain is also, in certain 
places, viz., along the southwest boundary strongly impregnated with lead ore, 
copperas, and varieties of arsenic, tantalite, molybden ore and tin-stone. In the 
cryolite ai'^ found pieces of the surrounding mountain, both of granite and of trap; 
it is therefore quite certain that the cryolite has come from the interior of the 
earth by volcanic agency, and that it is newer than the granite and the trap. 
The melted mass of cryolite has^ duiing its progress through the granite, torn otF 
parts ofthe bitter and enclosed tliem in itself. The cryolite veinis what is called a 
block with face towards south and southwest; in the south and southwest bound- 
ary of the vein the cryolite can plainly be seen going under the granite, in 
a very rapid dip, as much as 25° ; at one place, however, where the cryolite forms 
a kind of peninsula running west, the dip seems to be about 0° 12'; the cryolite 
appearing to continue under the mountain in a horizontal direction. As far as the 
quality of the produce is concerned, the cryolite vein consists of two different 
unequal parts, divided by a breakwater 60 feet high and 110 feet long, running 
northwest and southeast. 

I. The part east of the breakwater, whose greatest length and breadth are 
about 235 and 100 feet, and whose total extent can be reckoned at about 16,000 
cubic feet, consists of two parts — a northerly, 7,000 cubic feet in extent, which is 
totally of perfectly clean white cryolite, without any mixture Avhatsoever of un- 
clean minerals, with exception of the mass or part on the surface of the angle«i 
or separation, which is colored red or yellow by a very thin layer of ochre or 
clayey iron ; this part runs north and east right up to the granite. In the south 
and west it is surrounded by the second or southerly part, whose extent amounts 
to about 9,000 cubic feet, containing only impure cryolite, much mixed with 
quartz. 

The north part is almost all mined to a depth of fourteen feet below high-water 
mark; the eastern part of the same only to a depth of 11 to 12 feet, and on the 
western corner a pump-shaft descends to a depth of little more than twenty- two feet 
below high -water mark. The southern part, on the boundary towards north, is 
worked to a depth of four feet below high-water mark, but it rises gradually to- 
wards the south until it is somewhat over high-water mark. 

To keep the east mine free from water an engine is used which works four 
pumps, and has been more than sufficient to keep the working places free from 
water. The engine is calculated to raise the water from a depth of forty feet 
below high-water mark ; until the whole mine exceeds this depth no greater power 
will therefore be required. The mine during the winter is of coui'se, filled with 
snow and ice, and all blasting must, therefore, cease from the months of November 
to April. In the months from May to October the mine can be worked, except un- 
der unusually severe climatic conditions, and I think iu this time, with a gang of 
fifty men, about 5,000 tons of cryolite can be had. 

To convey the pieces broken out to the place where they are piled up, the two 
following means are used : 

1. Toward the north on the granite rock before mentioned, which separates the 
eastern mine from the Fjord, is a horizontal road, running iu a north and south 
direction on a level of one foot above the highest high-water mark, and on this 
road is laid a tramway running to a spot which has been filled up in the Fjord, 
in the middle of which is a turn-table and siding. The cryolite can be shipped 
from here with great ease, generally without ihe use of barges. At the southern 



400 ACCOUNT OF THE CRYOLITE OF GREENLAND. 

end of the road called the heading is a crane for hoisting the cryolite from the 
bottom of the mine to the tramway. 

2. In the south side of the eastern mine is built an inclined iron road, leading 
from the southwest corner of the mine in a west-northwest direction up on to the 
breakwater, which forms the west boundary of the mine. Here the iron road 
is continued horizontally in the same direction, west-northwest, for about 1 00 
feet, where, by means of a turn-table, it is connected with a cross line leading 
north, and with a stone basin built in the Fjord, where at low- water it has to be 
shipped in barges. At high-water it can be put at once on board the ships. 
Under the supposition that the dimensions of the mines remain unchanged in 
depth, the northern part will yield 630 tons of pure cryolite, and the southern 
part 610 tons of impure cryolite ; estimating the weight of one cubic foot cry- 
olite at 180 pounds, and a ton at 2,000 pounds. 

II. The western part of the cryolite vein adjoins the breakwater towards the 
east which has been mentioned several times before ; towards the west and south it 
extends up to the granite; towards the west the boundary is uncertain. The 
greatest length and breadth of this part, which on the drawing is marked " C," are 
respectively 200 and 120 feet; its whole extent can be reckoned at about 20,000 
cubic feet, consisting of medium clean cryolite. About a third of this is blasted 
to a depth of four to five feet under high- water mark ; the rest lies level with 
highest- water mark, with the exception of a small part extending from the south- 
most corner along the southeast boundaiy, where the cryolite rises to a height of 
five and a half to eight feet over high-water mark, in the front towards the 
west the cryolite is nine to ten feet over highest-water mark. In the extreme 
southeast corner of the west part a vertical shaft (with a profile twelve feet long 
and twelve feet wide) is blasted to a depth of about twenty-four feet under high- 
water mark ; at this place the cryolite became better as we went deeper; it was 
whiter and less mixed with iron ore, sulphurous particles, and lead ore. By 
driving a network of horizontal galleries, crossing one another in the western part, 
from the shaft at the commencement, and supporting the passages with pillars, 
it will probably not be very difficult to procure, with a gang of about fifty men, 
2,500 or 3,500 tons in the course of those months in which the open mine cannot 
be worked. 

To keep these mines free from water, an engine with the necessary pumps is 
used, which, if the water streaming in does not in future increase inthe twenty- 
four feet deep shaft, will be able to keep the mines clear of water to a depth of 
about forty feet under high-water mark. 

Supposing that the length and breadth of this western part will remain un- 
changed in descetiding, each foot in depth will yield 2,700 tons of medium cryolite. 
The following remark should be made: towards the west the vein of cryolite 
forms a characteristic point or peninsula, (springing into the side stones,) which 
has been before mentioned. The space between this point and the stream, 
about 120 feet west, is occupied by a cupola-shaped hill, whose highest point is 
thirty-seven and a half feet above high-water. In the northeast part of this, 
several hollows are found, which have hitherto not been carefully examined, but 
in which traces of cryolite have been found. These holes have probably formerly 
been filled with cryolite, which has afterwards been removed or conveyed by 
running water or other means. From this and the nature of the cryolite in the 
projecting point, where the vein seems to go horizontally in, we have reason to 
suppose that cryolite can be obtained under the granite in the whole extent of 
" D." As it probably continues under the mountain with the same, or with slight 
variations, from the height with which it enters at the point, (or peninsula,) it will 
be easily worked by going in under the rocks with horizontal passages, in a level 
not under high-water (by which annoyance from water will be avoided) eitheri 
from the sea-side or from the north or from the east. 



ACCOUNT OF THE CRYOLITE OF GREENLAND. 401 

Under the supposition of the doubtless volcanic origin of the cryolite, and, 
therefore, of the almost certain boundless depth of the- vein, there can never be 
any fear of a lack of the mineral. The difficulties, chiefly with water, snow, and 
ice, will doubtlessly increase as the mines deepen, but with proper steam power 
and good engineering direction, these difficulties maybe overcome. Supposing that 
the length and breadth of these different parts remain unchanged in descent, work- 
ing the whole to a depth of forty feet under high-water mark, will give the follow- 
ing result : 

A, whose medium level can be fixed at fourteen feet under high-water mark, 
will give 16,380 tons clean cryolite. B, whose medium level is about two feet 
under high-water mark, will give 30,760 tons of dirty cryolite. C, whose me- 
dium level is about two feet over high-water mark, will give 113,400 tons me- 
dium cryolite. Working the whole to a depth of forty feet under high-water 
mark will, therefore, give about 160,000 tons cryolite of different qualities. 

In regard to the relations and matters concerning the cryolite mines which 
are not mentioned here, I beg to refer to what I have formerly written from 
Trigtout. 

Respectfully, PAUL QUALE. 



S6 s66 



EXTRACTS 

FKOM 

THE METEOROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE OP THE INSTl 

TUTION, WITH REMARKS BY THE SECRETARY, 

PROP. JOSEPH HENRY. 



The object of the publication of the following correspondence and remarks, is 
to record isolated facts of interest, and to answer inquiries which are frequently 
made by meteorological observers. 

From W. C. Dennis, Key West, Florida. 

November 10, 1856. 

I have been mindful of your remarks as to my opportunity to gather facts rela- 
iiive to surface evaporation. 1 have given a great deal of attention to the sub- 
ject, but my principal object has been to learn the conditions wliich attend an 
increase of evaporation, for the purpose of applying them to practical utility in 
the manufacture of salt. There is a difficulty in the way of getting the yearly 
amount of evaporation from an ordinary surface, as I am convinced that evapo- 
ration goes on much slower from sea water as it approaches the state of satura- 
tion ; consequently in ordtr to get useful data to determine the yearly surface 
evaporation, the water employed should either be fresh, or kept at about the 
strength of sea water. So much difference is there in amount of evaporation from 
ordinary sea water and brine, nearly at. saturation, that while the former evapo- 
rates at say 0.05 inches per day, the latter remains nearly stationary. 

This fact I noticed frequently last summer, when the air was damp and heavy 
with dew at night. In the morning after a heavy dew, I often found brine that 
was very strong, weaker than it was the night before. Tliis I suppose may be 
accounted for by the strong affinity water has for salt. 

The hygrometrical condition of the air makes a great diffijrence in the amount 
of surface evaporation. The past year has been very damp, but the rains have 
not been remarkably heavy, yet everything goes to show that there has not been 
much over half*the evaporation that there was in 185 L and 1854, years in which 
there were heavy rains. Through this summer I did not observe ihe evapora- 
tion of quite 0, 10 inch in any twenty-four hours. In 1854, in the mont h of l^lwj, 
I noted the evaporation in one day (twenty-four hours) of full 0.30 of an inch. 
From this it can be seen that in order to ascertain tlie average yearly evapoj'ation 
from a given surface of the ocean, it will be necessary to make accurate daili/ 
observations for a number of years, with ordniary sea water kept at the same 
degree of density. 

I have found that evaporation goes on faster, when the weather is clear and 
cahn, from the surface of very shallow water than from deeper water ; but when 
the wind blows sufficiently strong to form a ripple or wave, evaporation goes on 
faster from water that is six inches deep than from that which is not more than 
one or two inches. Some other of my observations lead me to think that very 
little heat is absorbed by perfectly dear water in the passage through it of th(; 
direct rays of the sun, and that the maximum heat to which it is possible for the 
sun's rays to bring water depends on the color of the bottom that reflects back those 
.rays, as well as on the shallowness of the water. 



METEOROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE. 403 

Remarks. — The difference between the evapoiation from salt and fresh water 
is readily shown by covering the bulbs of two thermometers with linen cloth, and 
wetting one with salt and the other with fresh water. The reduction of tempera- 
ture will be greater with the latter than with the former, provided the wetting be 
renewed from to time to time ; but if the two linen envelopes be suffered to dry, 
the one to which the salt water it> applied will continue wet the longer, and thus 
indicate towards the end of the experiment a lower temperature. 

Although the difference of evaporation of salt and fresh water is apparently very 
obvious, yet it has been asserted by a distinguished meteorologist that the covered 
bulb of a thermometer sinks to the same degree whether wet with salt or fresh 
water, and the evaporation from the sea is the same as from fresh water lakes ; 
but this, as we have seen, is not correct. 

From the same. 

January 8, 1857. 
A most strange phenomenon occurred on the last days of last month. Large 
streaks and Helds of fresh water Avere discovered in the bay to the north and 
northwest of this island. The water was of dark color, but otherwise clear, 
and so fresh that many drank of it. At the same time toadfish, eels, snakes, 
&c., which always inhabit salt water alone, came on shore in great numbers, 
dead and dying. For a time the existence of fresh water was not believed, the 
death of the fish being ascribed to the norther of the 22d and 23d of December; 
but foiu- days ago fresh water Avas reported in the harbor of Key West. I ex- 
amined, and found, at the last of the ebb-tide, water at 2i'^ Beaumer all along 
the wharves. At one place it was 3°, and when I got home I tried the water at 
my salt house, two miles distant, and found it 5°. The day before at salt house 
it was 4*^. Evidently the water was fresher in the harbor the day before I tried 
it. I am continuing the examination, and will write you again. What is the 
cause of this ? Westerly winds could not have deflected the waters of the Mis- 
sissippi, Alabama, &c., here. Have not the waters of the Everglades, which 
have been very high for a year past, found cavernous outlets through the soft 
lime rock into the bay ? This rock underlies the entire bottom of the Ever- 
glades. 



From Rev. C. Dewey, Rochester, N. Y 

May, 1857. 

I think more attention ought to be paid to observations on the winds. It only 
needs a thought to convince us that the clouds alone can show the general cur- 
rent of the wind, and that the vane shows merely the ixnder and local currents. 
The charts of some storms show a wonderfully strange direction of the wind in 
some parts of our State; the reason is that the surface winds are those which are 
exhibited. 

The attention is directed more at this time to the upper winds, 1 know, and 
have no doubt that the direction of the wind in this State, and even New Eng- 
land, in Professor Cuffin's admirable expositions of the winds in the Smithsonian 
Contributions, will lie found not to correspond with the results obtained from ob- 
servations for the next twenty years. There is too much reliance by observers 
now, I fear, on surface winds. 1 should rather give up the wind vane and direct 
tlieir eyes above and below ; the difference may not be great, but too much for 
the designed accuracy of results now and in the future. 

IiEMARK.s — AVe fully agree with our much esteemed correspondent, whose re- 
marks on any branch of meteorology are entitled to special attention, as to the 
importance of observations on the motion of the clouds, upper and lower, in de- 



404 METEOROLOGICAL COREESPONDENCE, 

termining the great currents of the atmosphere. The resultant winds of the 
valley of the Hudson, as determined by the surface wind, are north and. south, 
while the resultant wind of the whole State has a westerly direction. Still we 
would not dispense with the use of the wind vane. There are many places 
where its indications are strictly correct, when it is placed at a proper elevation ; 
and at almost any place of which the topographer is well known an approxi- 
mation to the true direction may be deduced from the directions indicated by the 
vane. Moreover, the vane serves to give the direction of the changes of the 
wind, an important element in the theory of the phenomena of storms ; and even 
the indication which it affords of the lower surface winds is of value in perfect- 
ing our knowledge of the influence of moderate inequalities of the surface on the 
direction of currents of air and the distribution of temperature. 

In the records of the motion of the clouds care must be taken to state whether 
they are the upper or lower. 



From J. Baltzell, Tallahassee, Florida. 

September 16, 1857. 

The regular wind on the Atlantic coast of Florida, from which is derived the 
health and comfort of the inhabitants in the summer, is a southeasterly one from 
the sea, filled with moisture, evidently having saline particles, and stimulating in 
its effects. The wind at this place, which produces a like effect in- the summer, 
giving us life, health, animation, and comfort, is the southwest, which comes from 
tlie gulf of Mexico, about twenty miles distant ; I think it is not as stimulating, 
or as highly charged with saline particles, as that on the Atlantic coast. With 
us the east wind is dry, parching, and uncomfortable, prevailing not longer than 
a week at a time, and, if for a month or more, sickness is sure to follow, with 
extreme lassitude, depression, and nervous uneasiness. On the Atlantic coast 
as I Avas informed in a recent visit, the northeasterly winds produce these results. 

I think it will be found that the injurious effects of our east wind are not de- 
pendent upon the flat lands between this and Georgia. In general, the pine 
woods of this region are dry, Avith no water upon them, and they are generally 
regarded as very healthful ; occasionally there are wet seasons, in which the low 
lands are for a short time covered AA'ith water. 

I cannot give you information as to the prevailing direction of thunder storms, 
but will bear it in mind, and if I can obtain anything of value, will communicate 
it to you. 

Remarks. — The east wind, which reaches Tallahassee from the Atlantic, 
passes over the whole of that portion of Florida lying between the city and the 
ocean ; a distance ten times greater than that traversed by the current from the 
gulf. This is sufficient to explain the greater heat and dryness of the air. The 
same amount of radiation from the sun raises the temperature of the land much 
more than it does that of the water ; the specific heat of the latter being about 
six times greater than that of the former. 



From L. F. Ward, Medina, Ohio. 

October 5, 1857. 

I broke the tube of a standard barometer, and in trying to replace it, and pre- 
paiing to do so, I wiped out the tube carefully with a wooden rod and cotton 
wool, and laid it by until I could prepare the mercury. Soon after laying it 
down it began to break up into sections, and some of those sections to split 



METEOROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE 405 

longitudinally. In two days it was broken into more than thirty pieces. The 
tube was ^-inch diameter and §-inch bore. Now, I am unable to give any reason 
for the breaking of this tube. Are you aware of its cause? 

Remarks. — This is so far from being an unusual phenomenon, that it has 
been observed by almost every one who has attempted to clean a barometer tube. 
It results from imperfect annealing, or, in other words, a too rapid cooling, which 
has left in a condition of opposing tension the outer and inner surface of the 
glass. The explanation usually given is as follows : When a tube of glass is 
heated to redness, and then exposed to air of a low temperature, the outer 
stratum is suddenly cooled, and its particles brought into a state of equilibrium, 
while the "inner strata are still in an expanded condition; afterwards, when the 
latter shrink by gradually cooling, they tend to separate from the former, and 
thus produce a condition of unstable equilibrium. Hence the slightest scratch 
in the interior, of which the particles tend to separate, is sufficient to rupture 
the continuity, and cause the fracture of the glass. 

That such a state of unequal density of the outer and inner strata does actu- 
ally exist, is shown by the effect produced on a beam of polarized light 
transmitted through the tube at right angles to its axis; and this affords a ready 
means of detecting the existence in a piece of glass of defective annealing. 



From Scth L. Andrews, Borneo, MicJiigan. 

January 8, 1858. 

The annual occurrence of shooting stars recalled to my mind a similar phe- 
nomenon witnessed many years ago, which, if it should not be already recorded, 
may be of some interest. Upon referring to my journal I found the following 
entry : 

"Dartmouth Colleob, Hanovkr, N. H., August 10, 1830. — Fair. The 
aurora borealis is very bright this evening; an arch is extended across the 
heavens about 5° above the horizon, Avith a dark cloud in the space below. 

"Meteors (shooting stars) are darting across the heavens almost every minute; 
their apparent size varies from that of a spark to that of the planet Venus." 

My recollection of the phenomenon is that they were more frequent than I 
have ever seen since. I have in mind the same phenomenon witnessed on the 
9th and 10th of August, 1838; I was then at the Sandwich Islands. I am not 
able to find that I recorded it, and it is barely probable that it may have occurred 
a year or two later. On the first evening the meteors were most numerous and 
brilliant, some of them equalling Venus in the intensity of light. 

Remarks. — The dark segment under the arch is a general, though not an 
invariable accompaniment of the aurora. It may in part be due, as has been sug- 
gested, to contrast with the light of the aurora ; but it cannot be entirely referred 
to this cause since there frequently remains after the light has ceased to appear, 
a dark cloud in the place previously occupied by the segment. The phenomenon 
is evidently connected with the precipitation of the vapor of the atmosphere at the 
time of the passage through it of the auroral beams. I have in some cases seen 
a perfectly .dear sky almost instantly covered with a mistiness during a vivid 
display of the aurora. The same also sometimes occurs when no aurora is 
visible. 



406 METEOROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE. 

Fro7n James Balfour, Newport, Illinois. 

September, 1858. 

The remarkably mild winter in the months of January and December has 
been sufficiently commented upon by the newspapers, but we cannot look to 
them for the cause. The west and southwest winds prevailed nearly all the 
time, especially in the upper atmosphere, very seldom changing to south or 
northwest. It is well known that changes in the weather are produced by the 
difference of temperature of the equatorial and polar currents. When two cur- 
rents in different directions meet, clouds are invariably formed. When two cur- 
rents unite in the same direction the sky becomes clear. On tbe 1st of Febru- 
ary I had an opportunity of noticing three different currents in the air at the 
same time. In the lower atmosphere the wind came from the north ; an east 
wind drove light cirri from Lake Michigan, and above them were transparent 
cirri coming from the southwest. Towards noon the two lower currents com- 
bined in one, having a northeast direction, which, gradually veering to north- 
west, ended in a snow-storm towards night, lasting till noon of next day. 

On the 3d a west wind made a clear sky, with the thermometer at 10° Fah- 
renheit. 

On the 10th of February we had a temperature of 12° Fahrenheit; on the 
11th, 18° Fahrenheit, with a shai-p west wind, whereby Lake Michigan showed 
ihe phenomena of rapid evaporation, the whole expanse of water appearing like 
a boiling caldron, light cirri over the lake indicating the transformation of 
vapors into clouds. 

Rkmarks. — It cannot be doubted that on the meeting of the contiguous sur- 
faces of two streams of air moving in opposite directions, and having different 
temperatures, clouds must be formed, though I think it more probable that, in 
accordance with the theory of the late Mr. Espy, rains and violent winds 
are gen(u-ally produced by an upward motion of the air, and the inblowing from 
opposite directions of currents of air to supply the ascending mass. 

The phenomenon mentioned by our observer, of the fog on the lakes, is an 
interesting illustration of one of the ways in which fog is produced. While the 
atmosphere was at a temperature of 18°, very nearly, if not entirely, all of the 
vapor which it had contained was condensed, and it might be considered at that 
temperature as incapable of holding any moisture. At the same time, since the 
lake was not frozen, it had probably a temperature of about 40°, and would at 
this temperature give off a considerable quantity of vapor, when not resisted by 
the vapor already in the atmosphere. But as soon as this vapor was projected 
into the exceedingly cold stratum of air above the surface of the lake it was 
condensed into minute globules of water, constituting the elements of the cloud. 
Paradoxical as it may appear, it is probable that more water was evaporated 
from the surface of the lake during this extremely cold weather than was given 
off on warmer days, when the air was more nearly saturated with vapor. lu 
the case under consideration had the air been of the same temperature as that 
of the water, or even greater, and fully saturated with moisture, no evaporation 
would have taken place ; the vapor already in the atmosphere would by its re- 
action prevented any more from being formed. 



From Geo. C. Huntington, Kellcy's island, Lake Erie, Ohio. 

May, 1859. 
There is one feature in our climate which is peculiar. Dew during the heat 
of summer is the exception, not the rule. This I know from observation con- 
tinued ihrough twenty years' residence here. 



METEOROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE. 407 

Anothei' peculiarity is an exemption from frosts in autumn. We almost in- 
variably see notices of frosts in the southern States before we experience any- 
thing of the kind here. 

Remarks. — The want of dew on Kelley's island, in lake Erie, may perhaps 
be accounted for by the great amount of vapor which must exist in the atmo- 
sphere over the great lakes, and which after the sun begins to decline is slightly 
condensed into a thiti haziness, which prevents the radiation from the earth. 
The exemption from early frost is perhaps partly due to the same cause and 
partly to the equalizing effect of the large body of water on the temperature of 
the air which is contiguous to it. 



From Conrad Mallinikroot, Augusta, Missouri. 

June, 1859. 

My twenty years' observations at this place seem to prove that the changes 
of the wind follow the motion of the sun, viz : from east to south ; from south 
to west ; from west to north ; from north to east, and so on. 

If it once springs back in the other direction it is of short duration, and soon 
the main succession is restored. 

Remark.s. — This has been shown by Dove to be the normal motion of the 
points of the weathercock in the northern latitude, and has been called the nor- 
mal rotation of the wind. In places south of the equator the rotation takes 
place in an opposite direction. 

The explanation of the phenomenon is not difficult when considered in rela- 
tion to the different easterly velocity of different parts of the earth's surfiice as 
it revolves on its axis. A cannon ball projected directly toward the north de- 
scribes on the surface of the earth a line curving towards the east, on account 
of the eastward motion which it received from the earth at the point of starting 
being greater than that possessed by the several points of the earth's sui-face 
which is passed over in the flight of the ball to northward. The longer the 
motion of the ball continues the greater will be the curvature. For a similar 
reason a ball shot directly south will describe a line curving to the west. Now, 
suppose a wind produced by rarefaction of the air, or by any other cause, to 
commence near an observer, and to blow directly from the south in a broad stream. 
If it continues to blow, say for several hours, the particles of air which compose 
the stream must start from points more and more remote, as would be the case 
with the particles of water in a long trough of which the north end is suddenly 
removed. Each particle of air in the stream must curve to the east, and the 
greater the distance it has travelled the greater must be its easterly motion. 
The particles of air which first strike the weathercock must turn the point of 
the arrow very nearly south, while those which impinge against it after the 
wind has blown for some time, having a greater easterly motion, must direct the 
arrow to the west of south, the westerly direction increasing as long as the wind 
continues to blow from more southern parallels of latitude. For a similar 
reason a wind commencing to blow from the north must turn the point of the 
arrow more and more to the east the longer it continues to flow southward. A 
similar result, but differing in degree, must be produced from whatever inter- 
mediate point the wind commences to blow, providing the current continues to 
flow in a broad stream for a few hours. 

Hence, as a consecjuence of the rotation of the earth on its axis, the wind, 
at a given place in its normal flow, must cause the point of the arrow to move 
in the direction of the apparent motion of the sun. 

When the arrow is observed to turn in an opposite direction we may be sure 



408 METEOKOLOGICAL COERESPONDENCE. 

that this result is produced by a storm or an abnormal disturbance of the air 
-travelling in this latitude eastward, and drawing, as it were, the air towards it, 
and thus changing the direction of the arrow. 



From Francis L. Capen, Chicago, Illinois. 

August, 1859. 
I have stumbled upon the discovery of the meteorological system of the 
globe, and will furnish a programme of the weather in advance for Washington. 

Remarks. — The discovery of a single scientific fact may be the result of a 
happy accident, but a scientific principle can never be stumbled upon. It must 
be the result of reflection and investigation, and is generally arrived at by the 
successive efforts of a number of minds, each making a step in advance, while 
in general the popular credit is given to the one who finally presents it to the 
world in its simplest form. Even important scientific facts are at the present 
day rarely discovered by accident, and only, when the accident happens, to one 
intimately acquainted with the latest developments of science, and who is well 
qualified to recognize the value of the facts thus presented. We are, therefore, 
not disposed to place much reliance on the meteorological system which has been 
stumbled on by our correspondent. 



From A. Fendlcr, St. Louis, Missouri. 

October 2, 1860. 
I have reduced my half-hourly barometrical observations made at Oolonia 
Tovar, in 1S57, to the freezing point, in order to find out whether the mean maxi- 
mum and minimum of the whole differs much in point of time from the maxi- 
mum and minimum of the not reduced observations. The result shows that 
there is a slight difference. The time of maximum as well as that of minimum 
in the reduced observations is found to be somewhat earlier, having the maxi- 
mum at 10 a. m., instead of 10.30 a. m., and the minimum between 4 and 4J p. 
m., instead of 4^. These reduced observations I have also sent along with the 
register for September. 



From Spencer L. Hillier. 
\ 

September 5, 1861. 

I am reminded of an incident that occurred in Red Wing, Minnesota, when I 
resided in that State, which may be of interest to you. A man was lathing in 
the second story of a new brick house, when a discharge of electricity took 
place, which, passing through the first and second floors, taking his body in its 
course, killed him instantly ; and, strange as it may seem, it carried his cap up 
to the ceiling, there wedging it fast among the laths, where it remained till taken 
down the next day. 

Remarks. — This is by no means a very uncommon incident, since there are 
many cases on record of similar occurrences. 

The late L)r. Carnahan, president of the college of New Jersey, a man df re- 
markable precision of observation and truthfulness of description, informed me 
of an accident by lightning which fell under his notice near Princeton. In this 



METEOROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE. 409 

case, a negro man standing imder a tree during a thunder-storm was struck with 
lightning and instantly killed ; bat the surprising part of the occurrence was the 
fact that his woolly hair was afterwards found, adhering to the branches of the 
tree, several yards above his head. 

There are also apparently well-authenticated cases in which an image of a 
body standing before a plastered wall has been transferred to the latter bj a 
discharge of lightning passing from the one to the other. 

These phenomena, though very surprising, are not inconsistent with well-es- 
tablished principles of electrical action. It has been fully shown by logical de- 
duction from theoretical principles, and also abundantly proved by experiment, 
that the atoms of matter which exist along the path of an electi'ical discharge 
violently repel each other at the moment of the transit, the greatest intensity of 
the force being in the direction of the axis of the discharge. The eifect may 
be illustrated by sending a discharge from an electrical battery through a nar- 
row slip of tinfoil cut into parts, by passing the blade of a knife across it at in- 
tervals. The ends of each will be turned back on themselves, indicating thai they 
have been subjected to a violent repulsive energy. It would appear that at the 
moment of an electrical discharge through a conductor, each atom becomes for 
an instant highly charged, and thus exhibits a repulsive force sufficient in some 
cases to separate the matter into its component parts. If a powerful charge be 
sent through a brass wire, the compound metal will be dissipated into powder of 
zinc and copper. But the transfer of matter in the line of the axis of the dis- 
charge is best shown by placing perpendicularly a plate of polished copper 
midway between two conductors, at about an inch and a half apart, the ends of 
the two which are turned towards the plate being covered, one with gold and 
the other with silver foil ; after a powerful discharge from an electrical battery 
has been sent throngh the two conductors and the interveuing plate, the gold 
foil on the one side will be found deposited on the plate, and the silver on the 
other. Ill this experiment the two metals at the same moment are carried in 
opposite directions, and, what is still more remarkable, upon minute inspection 
it will be found that particles of the copper plate have also been sent in 02)posite 
directions, and deposited on the opposite end of each conductor. The explana- 
tion may be rendered plain by a reference to the annexed diagram, in which 



+ 



c+ - 



a and b represent the two conductors, and c the intervening cop|:)er plate, while 
the electrical condition of the several points of the system, at the instant the 
discharge is about to take place, is indicated by the signs -f- and — . From this 
diagram it will be evident that if the gold leaf be placed on the end of the con-, 
ductor a, it will be repelled by this conductor, because both are -f- electrified, 
and will be attracted to the nearside of the plate, this being — electrified, while a 
similar efi"ect will be produced on the opposite side of the plate. 

Although the repulsive and attractive action is the most intense in the line of 
the direction of the axis of the discharge, it takes place also in every direction. 
This is especially the case when a discharge is passed through air, and to this 
must be referred the surprising mechanical efiects exhibited when a powerful 
discharge of lightning traverses a confined portion of air. In one instance, 
which came under my own observation, a stroke of lightning fell upon the 
chimney on the west end of a house ; broke through the flue into the cock-loft 
or space immediately under the roof, and, passing through this a distance of 
aOout twenty feet, entered the flue of another chimney on the east end, in which 
was a stove-pipe, and descended to the earth. In its passage through the 
cock-loft, the particles of air near or in its path were rendered in an instant 
so mutually repulsive that they separated with such explosive energy as to lift 
up bodily the whole roof. 



410 METEOEOLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE. 

From Henry M. BarMister. 

Smithsonian Institution, 

January, 1867. 
In returning to New York from San Francisco in the present month, I ob- 
served a curious phencmeiion in the formation of clouds over the Gulf Stream 
We found ourselves in the stream on the morning of the 19th, the temperature 
of the water being 70° Fahrenheit, that of the air at or below freezing point. 
The whole surface of the sea was covered with vapor, which was most dense at 
the level of the water, but did not much interrupt the view at the elevation of 
the vessel's deck. The vapor ascended in forms exactly like that of a water- 
spout, for which we at first mistook them. The long ropy column, swaying to 
and fro, was very distinct in many instances, several being seen at one time. 
When this was not developed we could still see a point stretching downward 
from the cloud above, and ragged masses of mist rising to it from below. We 
passed several of these vapor-spouts quite near enough to make sure of their 
real nature. They did not appear to be of any density, nor were there any 
signs of disturbance in the water or atmosphere about them. They were seen 
on all sides, several at a time. When we had crossed the Gulf Stream, and got 
into water of at most not more than 40'^, we left the fog and had a clear sky 
over head, and on looking back the boundary of the stream was distinctly marked 
by the line of clouds hanging over it. 

Rkmarks. — The phenomenon of a cloud suspended over the Gulf Stream, mark- 
ing its boundary, must have been frequently observed during winter, when there 
exists a great difference between the temperature of the water and that of the 
air, as in the case described by Mr. Bannister, while the interesting appearance 
of ascending columns, such as he has mentioned, must be of less frequent occur- 
rence. It can probably happen only when the excess of the temperature of the 
water above that of the air is near a maximum, and this again can only occur 
after the air above the stream has been cooled by a northwesterly wind lollowed 
by, at least, a partial calm. In this condition the stratum of air immediately 
above the water would be heated, its specific gravity diminished, and the super- 
incumbent mass brought into a state of unstable or totteiing equilibrium. In 
the case of a small portion of air thus heated, the whole would rise in a single 
column on account of the pressure of the surrounding atmosphere ; but in that 
of a large extent of heated suiface, in which the temperature of the air above 
shades off gradually at the borders, the equilibrium will be restored by small 
ascending columns. 

A similar phenomenon is sometimes observed on extended sandy plains in the 
form of ascending dust columns. They are interesting as serving to throw light 
upon the causes of the water-spout and the land tornado, which have generally 
been referred to electrical action, but which can be fully explained without the 
introduction of this principle other than as an effect and a modifying agent. In 
the case of the water-spout and the tornado, the unstable equilibrium may be 
produced by the gradual heating of the lower stratum, next to the water or 
ground, when saturated with vapor, by the rays of the sun, or perhaps in some 
cases by the passage of a heavier stratum over a lighter one next the earth. 
The intensity of the upward motion will generally be in proportion to the greater 
thickness of the heated stratum and the comparative density of the upper. In 
my meteorological essays published in the Patent Office Keports, I have en- 
deavored to show that a thunder-storm, in accordance with the theory of Mr. 
Eispy of the upward motion of the air in case of storms, is an upward moving 
column, in which the ascent is produced by the causes we have explained, and 
that the electrical effects exhibited are due to the disturbance of the equilibrium 
of the natural electricity of the ascending column of conducting vapor by the 
negative induction of the earth below and the positive ibfluence of space above, 



METEOROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE. 411 

or, ill other words, tluit lightning is the result of conditions almost precisely 
analagous to those under which sparks are drawn fronn the lower end of a kite 
string iinder a clear sky. 

From the same. 

January, 1867. 

During my residence at St. Michael's, Russian America, between Alaska 
and Behriug's straits, while in the service of the Western Union Telegraph Com- 
pany, I kept a meteorological register according to the instructions received 
from you. This is now in the possession of the company, but I understand 
that a copy is to be sent to the Smithsonian Institution. 

The register extends over a period of eleven months, between October 1, 1865, 
and September 1, 1866. The barometer, thermometer, direction and force of the 
wind, and face of the sky, were noted three times a day, and the first two, on 
every seventh day during the winter months, hourly, betwen 7 a. m and 9 p.m. 
I also noted casual phenomena, auroras, haloes, &c., and the times of the be- 
ginning and ending of storms of rain and snow. The amount of precipitation 
was not recorded. 

The general movement of the air during the year appeared to be from a little 
east of north, though in midsummer the southerly winds were the most numer- 
ous and violent. In every instance, save one, during the winter, a high wind, 
no matter from v/hat quarter, was followed by a rise in the thermometer. The 
one exception was a southerly wind from the direction of open water. 

The maximum of the thermometer Avas 69^° Fahrenheit, in July, the minimum 
— 36'^ Fahrenheit in January. It probably descended still lower, but not at the 
hours of observation. The mean temperature for the three spring months was 
2S:P Fahrenheit ; for the summer, 52^-° Fahrenheit. That of the year was proba- 
bly near 26° Fahrenheit — possibly a little lower. 

We had one sharp thunder shower in July, the first that had occurred at St. 
Michael's for thirteen years, according to the statement of the residents, though 
thunder is not rare in the mountains of the interior. 

The aurora was often observed, and was sometimes very brilliant, though not 
quite as frequent as I had expected. Ten was the greatest number observed 
in one mouth. One or two instances, I think, are worth mentioning here. 

On the evening of August 23, after the corona had formed, streamers de- 
scended to all parts of the horizon ; a cloud filled the whole southeastern por- 
tion of the heavens, but the streamers appeared even brighter against its dark sur- 
face than in other parts of the sky. It is my belief that they were between us 
and the cloud, which was quite dense. I observed a similar appearance in Oc- 
tober, 1865, but I have not the record of it with me. Later in the evening the 
ordinary arch from northeast to northwest appeared. 

An aurora, observed by Messrs. Pease and Ketchum, at Aloukuk, a place 
about forty miles inland from the head of Norton Sound, in November, 1865, 
was described as appearing against the side of a mountain a few miles distant, 
so that the top of the hill was seen above the display, and it was also accom- 
panied with a hissing noise. The air was quite still, its temperature near — 30° 
Fahrenheit. While the display lasted it was light enough to read the finest 
print. 

I have never myself heard these sounds with the aui'ora, though once, in the 
month of January, they were reported to me at St. Michael's by Russian resi- 
dents, at a time when, on account of indisposition, I was unable to verify the 
statement by personal observation. I have no doubt, however, of their occa- 
sional occurrence. 

In all cases the points of the compass are given according to the magnetic 
and not the true north. The variation in the vicinity of St. Michael's, accord- 
ing to Russian admiralty charts, is UO'^ 30' east. 



412 METEOROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE 

Remarks. — Thimder storms are most frequent and violent in tropical regions ; 
they seldom occur in high latitudes, particularly on the ocean. Tliis is proba- 
bly due to the coldness of the surface and the consequent small amount of vapor 
in the atmosphere, a thunder storm, being as we have said in the foregoing 
remarks on the Gulf Stream, a large ascending column of air rendered of less 
density than the stratum immediately above, by an excess of heat and moisture. 
Although the difference of density in this sti-atum may not be sufficient of it- 
self to produce the upward motion at the level of the sea, yet the transfer of the 
same stratum up the side of a mountain would produce a precipitation of mois- 
ture, a liberation of latent heat, a vertical conducting column, and, in short, all 
the conditions necessary to a thunder storm. Hence the more frequent occur- 
rence of this meteor in mountainous regions in the same latitude than on the 
fthores of the ocean. 

The statements of Mr. Bannister, as to the position and sound of the aurora, 
are in accordance with the testimony of some of the northern voyagers, who re- 
port haviug seen the beams projected on clouds and also against a hill at the 
distance of a few thousand yards. Indeed, it would appear, from an attentive 
consideration of all the facts relative to the aurora, that it consists of beams or 
discharges of electricity between the earth and the upper regions of the atmo- 
sphere, j)arallel to the dipping needle at the place of observation. These dis- 
charges, according to the theory, must, when a corona is formed, take place 
immediately around the observer, since in this case the corona is simply the van- 
ishing perspective point of the parallel beams. We know that the appearance 
of the aurora at so small an altitude, and also the occasional emission of sound 
by the meteor, have been doubted, but Ave have never been able to infer from a 
priori consideratious why the statement in regard to both of these phenomena 
may not be true. Late investigations leave no doubt as to the electrical nature 
of the aurora, and as the visibility of the discharges of this agent must depend 
upon the greater or less degree of the conductibility of the atmosphere, they may, 
in some cases, probably in dry weather, appear luminous down to the earth. The 
character of the sound is also similar to that which is produced by electricity. 

In regard to the cold, it is a general observation that the thermometer sinks to 
the lowest degree during a perfect calm with clear sky. At this time the radia- 
tion from the earth is most intense, since all the local vapor is precipitated, and 
scarcely any obstruction is offered to the free passage of the rays of heat into 
celestial space. In this condition in a high latitude a wind which blows for some 
time, from any direction, is accompanied by a rise of temperature, since it must 
finally come, even across the pole, from a region of more moisture, though the 
water which it bears may be in a frozen condition, and thus produce a mistiness 
which would check radiation. Besides this, the wind from all points of more than 
one-half of the horizon, must come directly from a more southern quarter, and if 
it continues for a sufficient length of time, must needs have a higher tempera- 
ture, from whatever direction it may come. Precisely at the poles all winds must 
be from the south. 

The late Mr. Kennicott described to me a phenomenon which has also been 
mentioned by Sir George Simpson and other northern voyageurs ; it consists of 
a rustling or crackling noise produced by the breath, when the temperature of 
the surrounding air is below — 40°. He described it as prodvicing a startling 
effect when first heard, the sound appearing to come from a point either to the 
right or left of the observer when in motion. 

This effect is probably due to the sudden collapse of the vapor of the satu- 
rated air as ft escapes from the lungs, and the consequent sudden reduction of 
the volume. That the condensation 'of the vapor may be sufficiently rapid in 
this case to produce a sound is scarcely surprising, when we consider the rapidity 
with which steam is condensed by water of the ordinary temperature in the opera- 
tions of the steam engine. 



HORAEY VARIATIONS OF THE BAROMETER. 



BY MARSHAL VAILLANT. 



[Translated for the Smithsonian Institution, from the "Archives dc la Commission Scien- 

tifiqucduMexique," 18G5. ] 



When, in favorable weather, and especially under intertropical latitudes, we 
observe with attention the height at which the column of mercury stands in the 
barometer, it cannot long escape noticQ that this height undergoes, at different 
hours of the day, variations which pursue a quite regular course, and which are 
30 well established that Humboldt (we believe) has said the elevation of the 
mercury in the barometric tube might serve as a timekeeper. This, in the domain 
of physics, is something analogous to what is presented to the botanist by the 
leaves or flowers of certain plants which open or close, droop or again become 
erect, at a particular period of the day, a fact which suggested to Linnaeus the 
idea of his horologium plavtan/m. 

The study of meteorological phenomena under the torrid zone presents a 
peculiar interest, and affords much more readily than in temperate zones a 
knowledge of the general laws which govern those phenomena. Between the 
tropics, in effect, they are disengaged from almost all the disturbing causes 
which, in our own climates, render their examination so difficult. It was under 
the equator that the horary variations were first recognized. Bouquer, La Oon- 
damine, and Godin observed them more than a century ago, (173G and 1737,) 
when travelling together in South America. This phenomenon, to which is now 
given the more simple name oi diurnal period, was described by Humboldt in the 
work which he published in 1807, and in which he has given the precise hours 
at which occur the maxima and minima of height of the mercurial column, as 
well as the extent of the oscillation. M. Boussingault has, by his own obser- 
vations made at Guayra, (Colombia,) confirmed those for which science is 
indebted to Humboldt ; and long calculations, embracing a large number of 
years, have resulted in mean quantities which place the existence of the diurnal 
period beyond doubt, even in latitudes as high as the north of France. " From 
facts ascertained by Bouvard, at the instance of Laplace, during the seventy- 
two months of the six years which elapsed from the 1st of January, 1817, to 
the 1st of January, 1823, it results that the mean diurnal variation at Paris is 
equal to 0'"™ .801 ; and also that the mean variation of each month is always 
positive." 

I was not aware of the results at which Bouvard had arrived, when, availing 
myself of the tables furnished by the " Annalcs de Physique et de C/iimie," I 
verified, to my own satisfaction, that the oscillations of the mercury at Paris 
were so perceptible as to be wholly incontestable, especially during the mild 
season. The meteorological tables, comprising the year 1825, I discussed en- 
tirely, and those for 1824 in part. I shall give further on, and in detail, the 
results at which I arrived ; for the moment, suffice it to say, that We are not to 
expect to realize, under the latitude of Paris, deviations like those which are 
manifested under the tropics, where their extent surpasses two millimetres. 

The column of mercury attains the maximum of its elevation about nine or 
ten o'clock in the morning, from one of which hours to the other there exists, 



414 HOEAEY VARIATIONS OF THE BAROMETER 

as it were, a solstice, or, in nautical phrase, a period of slackwater. After ten, the 
mercury begins to sink ; at noon it is at a height which is very nearly the mean 
between the elevations of the day. From noon the column continues to sink, 
and reaches the minimum of height about three o'clock. From that hour till 
four of the afternoon we find a new interval of repose, the precursor of a change 
of sign in the movement of the mercury ; and, finally, towards four or five 
o'clock, the column begins again to ascend. 

About nine o'clock in the evening there is a second maximum in the height 
of the mercury, but the precise moment of this maximum is not yet well known, 
It would even seem that after an ascension, quite distinct and quite rapid, which 
takes place from five to nine or ten o'clock of the evening, the mercury does 
not absolutely cease to ascend, but that its ascensional movement, extremely 
slow and difficult to appreciate justly, still continues for an hour or two, or 
perhaps even three hours ; after which succeeds a stationary interval of some 
length, and then a movement of subsidence, likewise very slow, and which may 
even continue during the first hour which follows the rising of the sun. 

Such, in its principal circumstances, is the meteorological phenomenon to 
which has been given the name of diurnal period. Let us proceed to the expla- 
nation. 

Let us suppose oin-selves in the midst of a vast plain situated under the 
tropics. It is five o'clock in the morning, the air calm, the weather clear, the 
sun about to rise. It rises in effect, and its rays, at first tangents to the surface 
of the earth, glide over without warming it, and without communicating, so to 
speak, any heat to^ the air which is in contact with the ground. Presently, how- 
ever, the luminous and calorific rays become inclined to the horizon, raise the 
temperature of the points upon which they strike, and consequently also the 
temperature of the air which touches the points warmed by the sun. These 
inferior strata of the atmosphere, from mere change of temperature, tend to 
dilate, to rise, and would in effect rise rapidly, were it not that in this ascen- 
sional progress they have to overcome the resistance which the superior strata 
oppose to their upward movement. It is necessary, therefore, that the air 
already heated should overcome the inertia of that which as yet is not heated — 
should displace and set it in motion. As long as the entire column, so to say, 
has not participated in this movement from below upward, the pressure is in- 
creased on the surface of the ground where the observer is supposed to be ; it 
consequently increases also in the air which touches that surface, and hence 
upon the cistern of the barometer, which here fulfils not only the function of 
an instrument measuring the weight of the air, but also that of an instrument 
measuring the elasticity or resistance of a volume of air comprehended within 
certain limits of which the temperature continues to increase ; in a word, our 
instrument is as well a manometer as barometer. And, let it be said in passing, 
it is because this double ofiice of the instrument; which we owe to the genius of 
Pascal and Torricelli, has been too long overlooked that we have remained so 
much behindhand as regards the explanation of a great part of the phenomena 
of meteorology. But we return to the diurnal period. 

In the struggle of which we have just now spoken, and which takes place 
between the atmospheric column and the part of the air which is in contact with 
the ground heated by the sun, now ascending more and more above the horizon, 
there is an instant when the resistance is a maximum, and when, consequently, 
the column of mercury attains its greatest height. Observation shows that this 
maximum occurs about nine o'clock in the morning. 

There is nothing that need surprise us in this result of observation. On one 
hand, in warm countries, the greatest heat of the day prevails from ten o'clock 
in the morning or thereabouts ; on the other hand, it is from eight to nine o'clock 
that the ascensional movement of the thermometer is most rapid. We have 
seen in Algeria, at the commencement of September, at the moment when we 



HORAEY VARIATIONS OF THE BAROMETER 415 

struck nur tentf, which were pitched in the plain of Al)d el Nour, b(^tweiMi Con 
gtantine and SiJtif, th^■ outsidi- of these tents covered -with crystals of ice, and 
the thermom'-ter laid ujton th" canvas has descended by at least half i degree 
below uero. Th- sky was of the pm-est blue and the air uf wonderful trans 
parency Tht; sun arose in full radiance, and before -'ight o'clock the heal had 
becom'- as oppressive as it was the evening previous on our arrival at th^^ bivouac 
If I remember rightly the thermometer t^tood thus early at 27° centigrade, and 
it scarc^-ly reached a higher point during the whole day. 

From nine till ten o'clock of the morning, there is, as we have said, an equiU 
briura between the force which tends to communicate an ascensional movement to 
the column of air, and the resistance which that column opposes to the movem-nt 

From ten o'clock onward, the ascensional force decidedly prevails ; the inertia 
has been overcome, motion from below upward- has been imparted to the whole 
column, and there results, as it were, a suction or partial vacuum over the sur- 
face of the earth, and consequently on the cistern of the barometer. The mercury 
sinks in the tube, not because there is less air above this cistern, but because 
that air ascending vertically has lost a portion of its gravity and of its elasticity 

The fall of the mercury, which commenced about ten o'clock, continues till three 
at which hour, as observation proves, it is completed, and the barometer now in 
dicates a minimum. There is nothing in this which does not correspond with 
what might easily have been foreseen. The heat begins or will soon bf-gin to 
diminish ; the solar wind or trade wind is about to lose its velocity — a ^ elocity 
which in itself, also, has the eflFect of diminishing the pressure of the air m lln- 
barometer. Everything concurs therefore to produce the descending movemeuf 
of the column of air, a movement which, it may be said, is rendered visibl<- to 
all who observe what occurs with regard to smoke or the corpuscles suspended 
in the air, as soon as the sun begins to be inclined towards the horizon instead 
of mounting, as they do in the middle of the day, they remain on the surface ui' 
the ground. The perfume of flowers, instead of being dissipated in the atmo 
sphere, is condensed and becomes stronger and more penetrating Everythiug 
in effect, manifests a movement of the air towards th'- earth , th^- clouds sink 
lower, the mists occupy the valleys, &c. 

The sm-face of the earth becoming cooler towards four or five o'clock, a downward 
movement of the whole corresponding atmospheric column ensues; the air ac 
quires a certain velocity, and this active force is represented to the sight Dy an 
ascension of the mercury in the barometer. From observation the metal is found 
to attain a new maximum of height about nine o'clock in the evening, twelve hours 
after tlie former maximum in the morning. But, as has been already said, there 
is some uncertainty aljout the precise instant of this second maximum, an un- 
certainty which may be explained by the slowness with which the temperature 
sinks during the night. The subsidence of the thermometer, from th'^ time when 
the sun begins to descend towards the horizon to that of its setting, and even a 
little after, is quite sensible, but afterwards, although the earth's surface continue.s 
in reality to grow cooler, it is constantly brought into contact with successive 
volumes of the descending air which has not yet lost all the heat acquired dur 
ing the day, and through the effect of this contact there is established, not indeed 
a complete equilibrium in the temperature, but, at least, a partial compensation 
for the effect of the radiation of the surface dunng the night 

Th" ascension of the mercury in the barometer, from four or five o'(-lock in ihe 
evening to about nine, would be certainly more rapid and. extended if the con 
dcnsation of the air in the strata next to the earth did not take place simultane- 
ously with another very common phenomenon, which in hot countries acquires 
considerabb- proportions ; 1 speak now of the evening vapors and the dew. The 
former begin to manifest themselves in intertropical regions as early as the 
fourth hour of the afternoon, and observant travellers even report that there are 
days on the Senegal when the phenomenon becoinL's perceptible witkin two 



416 HORARY VARIATIONS OF THE BAROMETER. 

hours after the pun'.'^ passage of the meridian. These vapors, which change their 
name and become dew in the morning, are so abundant under thf tropics as to 
indicate a large conversion of watery vapor into liquid water. Now this water, 
when it was in a state of vapor, exerted on the barometrical cistern a pressure 
additional to the proper pressiire of the air, and contributed, in a certain measure, 
to maintain the mercury at the height which it had attained ; but if, afterwards, 
and when the air is about to descend because of its refrigeration by contact with 
the earth, the watery vapor is converted into cloud, [serein,) and no longer 
oceiipies more than a very small fraction of its primitive volume, this progressive 
diminution of the quantity of water which was in a state of vapor at the moment 
when th^ air began to assume a descending movement, cannot but operate as a 
lessening of the pressure which the descent of the column of air exerts on the 
barometer. 

It would be difficult to estimate with any precision what part, as regards the 
ascension of the mercury in the morning, should be assigned to the evaporation 
of the d^vf, and equally so to estimate how much the maximum of the evening 
should fall below that of the morning from the effect of the production of the 
evening vapors. The difficulty is the greater hecause here we arc to consider 
not only a weight to be added to the weght of the atmospheric column or to be 
deducted from it, but chiefly because when dew is in question, account is to be 
taken of the elasticity which the vapor of water acqviires, as soon as it is formed, 
by its mixture' with the air already warmed by contact with the surface of the 
earth. Nothing, how^tver, forbids our making a supposition, and this I have 
done by inquiring how much a stratum of dew, represented by a height of two 
miUimHtres of water, .a supposition, I think, involving nothing excessive,) would 
cause the barometer to ascend, by the fact alone of its vaporization ? The re- 
suk has been found to be a height comprised between one and two tenths of a 
millimetre. If we allow an effect of equal extent, but in an opposite direction, for 
the diminution of the mercurial column at the evening maximum of nine o'clock, 
there will result three-tenths of a millimetre, or very nearly so, as the quantity 
by which the maximum of the morning would surpass the maximum of nine 
o'clock in the evening; admitting, as has been just supposed, that the dew of the 
mornmg, like the damps of the evening, represents a stratum of liquid water 
two millimetres in height. 

It was t'tated at the commencement of this article that, in the course of 1826, 1 
took occasion to d'scuss the meteorological tables of the whole of the year 1825 
and of a part of 1824, as they had been given in the Annals of Physics and 
Chemistry. I distributed the days first into categories indicated by the state of 
the 'sky, and next into categories determined by the direction of the whid which 
prevailed during these different days. Let us first observe to what result the 
former operation led : 

Eighty days of a sky entirely overcast. The mean height of the barometer, at =""• 

tht moaient of the maximum of 9 o'clock in the morning, was 756. 82 

The mean height, at the moment of the maximum of the evening, was 756. 20 

Difference 0.62 

One hundred -and sixteen days of a cloudy sky. Maximum of 9 o'clock in the 

mornmg 758. 28 

Maximum of 9 o'clock in the evening 757. 72 

Difference 0.56 

Forty-eight days of a sky perfectly clear, or presenting only small clouds, white 

and thin Maximum of the morning 759. 87 

Maximum of the eveaing 758.53 

Difference 1.34 



HORARY VARIATIONS OF THE BAROMETER 



417 



From these differences it will be seen that, even for the overcast and cloudy 
days, which show the slightest disparities between the maxima, as might readily 
be foreseen from the explanation which we have given of the phenomenon of the 
diurnal period, these disparities still exceed by much the three-tenths of a milli- 
metre to which we were led by our supposition of a stratum of two millimetres 
of water undergoing conversion into vapor, and conversely. 

The number of days to which our calculations were extended was but 244 ; 
the rest of the year was left out of view, because the 121 days of which it con- 
"isted found no well-defined place in the categories we had adopted. 

Tlie researches which follow comprij>e the 365 days of the year, being dis- 
tributed in the classification according to the direction of the wind : 

'Winds. 

NNW V?"" (liv<? ^ Mean height of the maximum of 9 o'clock of the morning 7C1. 40 

NNE > / Mean height of the maximum of 9 o'clock of the evening 7G1. 36 

Difference 0.04 

Wind. 

KP \ ^1 ^ 5 Mean height at 9 in the morning 762. 36 

■^' 5 '^' "*y^-^Mean hdght at 9 in the evening 761.13 

Difference '. ].23 

Winds. 

T?\n? K'xc\ ^ ) Mean height at 9 in the morning 758.29 

ESe" t ^ J Mean height at 9 in the evening 757.18 

Difference 1.11 

Wind. 

op \ ,n I 5 Mean height at 9 in the morning 753.59 

oi!.. ^ vi, aays. ^ ^^^^^ \^e:\%\xi at 9 in the evening 752. 48 

Difference 1. 11 

Winds. 

s'sE >ri (lavs 5 Mean height at 9 in the morning 755. 41 

S S\V 1 / Mean height at 9 in the evening 753. 27 

Difference 2.14 

Wind. 

QW \ c\ ^ 5 Mean height at 9 in the morning 756.24 

ow. ^ Di aays. ^ Mean height at 9 in the evening 754.72 

Difference 1,52 

Winds. 

W ) ( 

\v'ci\v Crq 1 ) Mean height at 9 in the morning 756.69 

W NW S f *^®^" ^^'^^'^ ^'^ "^ ^° the evening 756. 24 

Difference 0. 45 

Wind. 

vw ^41/1 5 Mean height at 9 in the morning 7.59.10 

iM vv. ^ 41 aays. ^ ^^^^^ \^^\^\^i at 9 in the evening 759. 02 

Difference 0.08 



The preceding figures impart their instruction. We confine ourselves at 
present to the remark, already made in reference to the distribution of days ac- 
cording to the state of the sky. tliat the difference of the morning and evening 
maximum is always in the same direction, and that, if we except the two cases 
27 s 66 



418 



HOEAEY VARIATIONS OF THE BAROMETER. 



of winds whose course approximates to the north and northwest, the differences 
of the means generally much exceed the three-tenths of a millimetre yielded 
by the supposition of a stratum of water two millimetres in height. In ob- 
serving with what regularity the phases of the phenomenon of the diurnal period 
present themselves even in the latitude of Paris, we can feel no surprise at the 
course, worthy of being styled chronometric, which the same phenomenon ex- 
hibits in tropical regions, and which led Hnmboldt to sa^; that "no atmospheric 
circumstance— neither rain, nor fair weather, nor wind, nor tempest — affects the 
perfect regularity of these oscillations under the tropics; but that they subsist 
alike at all times and in all seasons." 

Humboldt has given the law of these variations under the torrid zone; desig- 
nating by Z the mean height of the mercury for the whole day, or, what is the. 
same thing, the height at mid-day, we have: • 

-The oscillation at 9 o'clock in the morning, equal to Z -\- 1™™. 1280 

That of mid-day Z 

That of 4 o'clock in the evening Z — . 9024 

That of 1 1 o'clock in the evening Z + . 2256 

And, finally, that of 4 in the morning Z — . 4512 

For, as Humboldt tells us, he had observed that the ascensional movement, 
which is manifested from five o'clock in the evening, and which attains its ap- 
parent maximum towards ciine, ten, or even eleven o'clock in the evening, ceases 
towards this last hour, and is replaced by a very slow fall of the mercury, a fall 
which is continued until about four o'clock in the morning, when it is at 0"^™.4512 
in relation to the mean height of the day. 

The explanation which we have given of the diurnal period very readily 
accounts for this last phase of tbe phenomenon. There must, in effect, be a 
moment when the column of air, which is condensed on approaching the surface 
of the earth, has lost almost all its velocity of descent, and when, consequently 
it exerts on the barometric cistern no other action than that wliich results from 
its weight. There is no reason, on the other hand, why dew should cease fro^ 
forming and from replacing the watery vapor which pressed upon the barome- 
ter, by liquid water, which exerts no pressure on that instrument. There 
may well, therefore, be a subsidence of the mercury, having its point of de- 
parture in the neighborhood of midnight, and continuing slowly until the mo- 
ment when the morning sun begins to warm the surface of the earth and convert 
the dew into vapor. 

In a very remarkable memoir, in which Ramond has treated of the question 
of the horary variations of the barometer, we find a table which gives the results 
of 2,065 observations made at Clermont, a table which we here present, still 
retaining the notation Z for the height of the barometer at noon, or the mean 
height of the day : 



Morning. 


Noon. 


Afternoon. 


Evening. 


Depression. 


Ascension. 


Spring .... 
Summer. .. 
Autumn. .. 

Winter 


Z + 0™°!. 39 
Z + .32 
Z + .33 
Z + .37 


Z 
Z 

z 
z 


Z — ©mm. 72 

Z — .56 
Z — .41 
Z — .36 


Z -f .33 

Z -f .47 
Z -f .36 


imm. Jl 

.88 
.74 
.73 


1™™. 05 
.89, 
.88 
.72 



It w^oiTld result from this table that, in our climates, the depression of the day 
is reduced to the half of that which is observed at the equator. Another con- 
sequence to be drawn from the same table would be this : that, with us, the 
ascension of the evening is very neai-ly equal to the depression which preceded 
it, while under the tropics these quantities differ from equal to double. 

But here it is proper that an important remark should be made: 'the above 
table, as well as those which precede it, is the result of observations made iu 
France at the same hours of the day, but at periods of the year wholly different. 



HORARY VARIATIONS OF THE BAROMETER. 419 

It is readily understood that, under the tropics, wliere tht- duration of the days 
varies so little, the barometrical heights should be taken at moments always 
equally distant from mid-day, and therefore always equally distant from the 
rising and setting of the sun, or at least very nearly so. Such are the observa- 
tions made by Humboldt, M. Doussingault, &c But, in France, how are we 
authorized to collate and compare the effect of the warming of the earth's sur- 
face by the solar rays, m sumvier, at nine o'clock in the morning when the sun 
is already five hours high, with that which has been produced at tiie same hour 
of the morning, in winter, when the sun is scarcely above the horizon and its 
rays reach the surface of the earth only through thick clouds or mists 1 There 
is evidently no comparison possible between observations made under conditions 
so different. It would seem that if the maximum of the morning corresponds, 
under the torrid zone, to eight or nine o'clock, as Humboldt has verified, this 
maximum will, with us, occur in summer, when our days are long, at about six 
o'clock. Further north it would be at five o'clock, while near the; pule there 
would be no maximum either morning or evening. In the winter, on the con- 
trary, the maximum would, in our latitude, occur at about ten or eleven in the 
morning and be necessarily not very obvious. In high latitudes, where the sun 
scarcely shows itself, all would be confounded, and the diurnal variation, if not 
wholly absent, escape the notice of observer.-? by reason of its diminutive pro- 
portions. Continuous observations, directed to a verification of the suggestions 
thus thrown out, could not fail to be of much interest, especially if it were prac- 
ticable to make them with a registering instrument aud a barometer filled with a 
liquid much lighter than mercury. 

The inquiry has sometimes occurred to me whether there might not be found 
in the experience of our every-day life some simple facts which would serve to 
illustrate and confirm the above theory on the diurnal period, and it has seemed 
to me that what takes place in our ordinary chimneys has much analogy with i 
the oscillations of the barometric column. Let us suppose the fire to have been , 
extinct for some time, and the air of the chamber, like that of the chimney, 
nearly motionless. Let fire be now supplied on the hearth ; the lower air will 
become heated and have a tendency to rise, but it is necessary that it should 
make for itself a way in the column which occupies the body of the chimney, 
that, so to say, it should displace this whole column and set it in motion. The 
struggle is of more or less duration ; sometimes the warm air, not being able to 
rise quickly enough, diffuses itself in the chamber; the cMmwcy sinokes. As 
long as the struggle continues there is a i epression of the air. and consequently 
an augmentation of pressure in the body of the chimney. Here we have the 
first phase of the diurnal period; it con-esponds to ihe warming of the surface 
of the earth by the newly risen sun. By and by the moment arrives when the 
pressure of the aif in the body of the chimney attains its greatest intensity, 
corresponding to the maximum of eight or nine o'clock in the morning. After 
this, all the air being finally put in motion and the force of inertia overcome, 
the tension diminishes, and through the velocity acquired, this tension in the 
tunnel of the chimney must become even inferior to what it was before the 
kindling of the fire on the hearth, i-epresenting the period from nine or ten 
o'clocTi. to midday and to even three o'clock in the afternoon. 

Suppose now that after having kindled a brisk fire and established a strong 
draught, we cease to supply fuel; the draught will diminish, the air will ascend 
less rapidly, the pressure will augment in the body of the chimney, and if there 
were a barometer therein, the mercury would ascend in the tube. .A.t length, 
when the fireplace has become altogether cooled, the entire column of air will 
acquire a movement from above downward, and will exert a pressure on the 
hearth ; it is what often occurs in our dwellings during summer, when great heat 
prevails. The external air, wh.ch is warmer than that of the chamber, becomes 
cooled in penetrating from above, descends along the tunnel and throws down 



420 HORARY VARIATIONS OF THE BAROMETER. 

tlae cliimr.ey-screen if not well secured in its position. The odor of soot per- 
vades the apartment, distinctiy indicating the presence of a descending current 
of air in the flue of the chimney. Xow, it is this descending movement of the 
air in the chimney which represents, in the diurnal period of the barometer, the 
phase commencing at three or four o'clock in the afternoon and continuing until 
after midnight. 

Is it ijot a curious thing to find, in what occurs at the fireside of the most 
simple dwelling, so complete an analogy with all the circumstances of the plie- 
nomenon, apparently so complicated, which is called the diurnal period of the 
barometer 1 Need we hesitate once more to repeat that it is the presence or 
absence of the sun, the warming or cooling of the earth which thence results, 
which is the sole cause of all meteorological phenomena, from the ascent and 
passage of a soap-bubble to the most fearful tempests ? Let us carefully observe, 
then, these effects of heat and cold, not by studying the phases of the moon and 
the tides which it may produce at the limits of our atmosphere, not by consider- 
ing the stars, but by attending to what passes around us on the surface of the 
earth. 

Biot has said, and M. Poey has recently repeated the remark, that it is neces- 
sary to commence our study of meteorology from above ; we are not at all of 
that opinion. Almost all the phenomena of meteorology — rains, snow, hail- 
are accidents solely due to differences of temperature ; they are produced at the 
surface of the earth, and it is they which occasion the disorderly movements of 
the lower strata of the atmosphere ; a little above these there is only a blue_ or 
black sky, absolutely a stranger, let us believe, to all those phenomena which 
occupy so large a space in our own experience. 



LETTER OF MARSHAL VAILLANT, ON THE FORKGOING THEORY, TO M. CHARLES 
SAINTE-CLAIRE DEVILLE, MEMBER OF THE INSTITUTE.* 

I have attentively read your memoir, or, as you term it, monograph, On the 
Barometric Phenomena of the Antilles and Neighboring Countries. Thefollowing 
are some of the reflections Avhich that examination has suggested to me. 

The observations which you report confirm the truth of the theoiy which I 
have developed in my note on the horary variations, and I have no doubt that 
observations which will be made in the future, and for which, I trust, that theory 
Avill be accepted as a guide, will lead to the most satisfactory confirmation. 

You are right in saying that the different elements of the total oscillation un- 
dergo the constant influence of the solar heat. Yes, it is to the influence of that 
heat I hat the ascensional movement of the mercury in the barometer is due, in 
consequence of the inertia which the air and Avatery vapor mingled together 
oppose to the ascension which the heat communicated tends to impress upon 
them ; and it is also to the diminution of the calorific effect on the air and watery 
vapor, and to the inertia v/hich retards their being put in motion, that is due the 
subsidence of the mercury in the barometric tube. Inertia, that force which is 
ever and everywhere encountered, has been, perhaps, rather too much neglected 
by the meteorologists. 

■ The cause being known, or at least suspected, we can calculate its effects and 
proceed in advance of direct observation ; this will come afterwards to the sup- 
port of the theory. Thus, as you very properly say, the pihenomenon of the 
diurnal variation, at the level of the sea, considered in the establishment of the 
tropical hours or in the extent of the oscillation, is manifestly connected with the 

* This letter forms a sequel to the previous article, On the Horary Variations of the Barolnt- 
ter, and was designed to fumLsh to the explorers and correspondents of the scientific commis- 
sion of Mexico indications respecting the direction to be given to their barometrical observa- 
tions. 



HORARY VARIATIONS OF THE BAROMETER. 42 J 

causes u-hicJi wflvencc, as icell the distrihtilion of the annual mean temperatures as 
the distribution of the t,um (tfthe tLVii)cratures over the different hours of the day. 

Let us' go a step further, if you please, and state more precisely the effects 
due to this cause, inasmuch as we know it : the greater the heat, (the habitual 
heat due to the latitude,) the greater should be the extent of the oscilhitions ; 
the warmer the season in comparison with other seasons of the same year, the 
greater will be the amplitude of the oscillations during that warm season ; the 
more rapid the ascension of the thermometer during the day, as, for example, 
in certain countries of low latitude, where, in a few honrs, there is a tran3ition 
from a temperature below zero to a heat of twenty-five or thirty degrees above, 
the more considerable will be the oscillation ; the clearer the sky and more trans- 
parent the air, the more rapidly will the earth be disposed to grow warm under 
the action of the solar rays, and the greater and more rapid will be the oscillation. 

For the part of a continent having its general slope directed toward the rising 
sun, the ascent of the mercury in the morning would be more rapid, and it would 
attain a limit which it would not reach if that part of the continent Avere simply 
level or nearly so. For the same tract of country, thus strongly incl ned to the 
east, the fall of the mercury in the afternoon would be also much greater than 
for a horizontal region, since what would be gained from the incLnation of the 
surface in the morning would be lost in the evening. 

All these effects are influenced also by the alternation of the breezes of the 
land or water, if the position is near the shore of an ocean, great lake, &c. 
And since these breezes, according as they arrive from the east or west, counter- 
act or favor the calorific action of the sun on the surface, they would differently 
modify the oscillations of the mercury in the barometer. This your 77ionograph 
conclusively shows. Nor would the direction of the trade-winds, on their part, 
fail to exert an influence on the amplitude of the phenomenon ; not so much in- 
deed as altogether to mask it, but sufficiently to extenuate certain details of time 
and extent, which theory alone coiild then supply and place in relief. While 
the theory here presented seems to account satisfactorily for the horary variations 
in an extensive and level plain, it would lead us to expect that, since the degree 
of caleftiction through ;,he presence of the sun is the cause of these variations, 
the latter will be proportionately less as the former also is less and the plain more 
elevated above the level of the sea ; in other words, the greater the altitude of 
the country the smaller will be the oscillation of the mercury. This prevision 
of the theory is confirmed by the observations reported in the ninth page of 
your memoir. 

The horary oscfllation for a small island lost in the bosom of a vast ocean 
must be difficult to recognize and measure, the effects of the heat communicated 
to the soil being, as it were, absorbed and disappearing in the general movement 
of the air on that ocean. An analogous result, though even less distinct, would 
be produced in the case of a peak isolated in the midst of a great plain. 

In recapitulation, I would say : if the phenomenon of the horary variations 
has its cause, as I am satisfied is the case, in the inertia of the air, that is to 
say, in the reluctance with which it enters into motion, whether upward or down- 
ward, when the surface oii which it rests begins to grow warm or cold, observa- 
tion ought to lead to the verification of the following facts : 

The warmer a country in consequence of its latitude, the more decided will 
be the oscillations uf the barometer, and the more feeble in proportion to the 
elevation of the country above the sea Their regularity, that is, their sym- 
metry in relation to the meridian, will be modified through the aspect of the 
country as turned towards the east or west, by the manner in which it presents 
itself to the general current of the trade-winds, the breezes of the land or sea, &c. 

Beyond the intertropical zone, the hours to be chot=en for the observations 
should vary according to the seasons. The extreme hours should be more re- 
mote from m.dday in spring and summer, and should be nearer to it in autumn, 
but especially in winter. 



422 HORARY VARIATIONS OP THE BAROMETER 

The amplitude of tbe diurnal oscillations of the barometer Avill diminish iu 
m-oportion as we advance towards the higher latitudes; it will very nearly 
vanish in countries where the sun no longer appears above the horizon, as in 
those also on which it constantly shines during six consecutive months. 

The amplitude will diminisli when the sky is overcast or cloudy, but the oscil- 
lations would not on that account cease altogether; for if fogs or clouds 
intercept the view of the sun from the earth, they still receive the rays of that 
luminary on their upper surface, Avhicli must consequently have its temperature 
raised, as would be that also of the air which touches it, though in a less degree 
than is the case when the rays of the sun strike the earth itself. 

Beyond the zone for which the length and heat of the days are, so to speak, 
invariable, it should be in the warmest month of the year that the diurnal baro- 
metric oscillation is most considerable : hence we infer that there is a maximum 
for the year. But there is difficulty in admitt'ng a monthly maximum or mini- 
mum. The existence of the latter, if observation should verify it in certain 
localities, must depend on special circumstances, from which it will be easy, we 
think, to disengage the phenomenon itself. As this phenomenon, however, ac- 
cording to what we have so often said, is in an especial manner connected with 
the temperatTire, there would be no positive ground for surprise if the months 
which comprise the spring and sum.mer Avere found to have each a minimum at 
the commencement and a maximum at the end ; while, for the months constitu- 
ting the autumn and winter, there should be a maximum in the first days and 
a minimum in the last days of each of those months. But, in our high latitudes, 
and with all the causes which occur to derange the regularity of the course of 
our seasons and their temperatures, it will, perhaps, be very difficult to establish 
by direct observations what I am disposed to call the differentials of the phe- 
nomenon of barometric diurnal oscillations. 

Permit me, in conclusion, to advert to a great variance which exists between 
us. In several passages of your work 3'ou speak of variations in the weight of 
the atmosphere, and you seem inclined to connect these variations of weight 
with the barometric diurnal oscillations ; I might cite specially the last para- 
graph of page 32, in which you say: " We have inquired how it is that, in the 
same place, the weight of the atmosphere varies in the day according to the 
hours, and in the year according to the months." For a long time I have been 
opposed to this mode of interpreting the horary variations of the barometer; 
these, in my opinion, are wholly independent of the proper weight of the atmo- 
sphere, so that, on the supposition of the weight of the column of air remaining 
absolutely the same for several months, the diurnal variations would not the 
less be produced and within the same limits. They are the effect of the aug- 
mentation or diminution of the volume and elasticity of the air, in consequence 
of the heating or cooling of that air in contact with the surface of the earth ; but 
this has nothing in common with the weight of the air simply as a gravitating 
.body. I give but little credence to waves produced at the upper limit of our 
atmosphere ; but had these Avaves several kilometres of altitude the phenomenon 
of horary variations would not be materially affected ; they might slightly mask 
it, perhaps, but would neither deprive it of its form or its importance. 

It is this unfortunate confusion of the weight and the action or elasticity of 
the air, as also of the weight and elasticity of the watery vapor diffused in the 
atmosphere, which renders the language of the baiometer so critical a matter to 
interpret. This instrument, as regards the indications which it gives us and 
the consequences which we draw from them, is much more a manometer than 
a baroscope, as, at its origin, it was sometimes called. I hope to be able to 
recur to this subject hereafter, and in the mean time conclude by saying that, in 
the computation of heights by the barometer, there are circumstances in which 
it will be necessary to take account of the horary variations, at the risk of 
neglecting an eleiaeut of exactness. 



HORARY VARIATIONS OF THE BAROMETER. 423 

APPENDIX TO THE FOREGOING. 



BY PROFESSOR HEXRY. 



Without wishing in the least degree to detract from the merits of the foregoing 
interesting exposition of a phenomenon which has long occupied the attention of 
meteorologists, I think it due to the memory of the late Professor Espy to state 
that tlie essential principle of the explanation was given by him in the first vol- 
ume of the Journal of the Franklin Institute, of Philadelphia, in 1828. M. 
Yaillant has, however, without knowing of the previous explanation of Professor 
Espy, given a more full exposition of the phenomenon by the introduction of the 
effect of the variation in the quantity of vapor in the atmosphere.^ The following 
is an extract from the article published by Mr. Espy : 

" The true cause of this phenomenon is the expansion, and, of course, rise of 
the atmosphere by heat, and the contraction and consequent fall of the atmos- 
phere by cold. Suppose just before sunrise in the torrid zone, the temperature 
of the air neither increasing nor diminishing, and of course the air neither ex- 
panding nor contracting, the barometer stands at thirty inches; now when the 
eun rises at six o'clock the air will begin to be heated near the surfoce of the 
earth, and of course, by its expanding, will elevate the superincumbent atmos- 
phere ; and this by its inertia will react on the air below, and thus press harder 
on the mercury of the barometer than if it were at rest, and the more rapidly it 
is forced upwards the greater will be its reaction downwards, and of course the 
more will the barometer be affected. It is manifest that the most rapid increase 
of heat p.nd rarifaction of the air will take place somewhere betwen sunrise and 
three o'clock, when the heat is the greatest, and this will evidently be near tea 
o'clock, at which time the barometer will stand highest. Though the heat is 
still increasing, and of course the air expanding, yet the rapidity of increase after 
this hour is not so great, and therefore the barometer will begin to fall ; and at 
the moment of greatest heat, when the air is neither expanding nor contracting, 
the mercury will again stand at thirty inches high. But now the air begins to 
contract from cold, and the mercury will therefore continue to descend, and the 
rapidity of the descent will be in proportion to the rapidity of the contraction 
from cold. Perhaps this effect may be more clearly understood by imagining 
an extreme case. Suppose the lower strata of atmosphere suddenly annihilated, 
the mercury of the barometer would be relieved from all pressure for a moment, 
and fall down into the basin ; and if annihilation removes all pressure from the 
mercury, a contraction of the lower strata by cold will remove some pressure; 
therefore the mercury will fall ; at the moment, therefore, of a most rapid decrease 
of heat, which is probably near sunset, the mercury will stand lowest, and will 
be below the height of thirty inches, at which I have supposed it to stand when 
the air is neither expanding nor contracting. The mercury will novr begin to 
rise, for the rapidity of contraction diminishes from this moment, and the upper 
parts of the air are permitted, more and more, to press upon the lower with their 
whole weight; and even when the contraction ceases below, the upper parts, 
having acquired a velocity downwards, are inclined to continue that motion, and 
thus by their momentum will press upon the lower parts with a force greater 
than their natural gravity, and thus the barometer will rise above thirty inches, 
at which height it was supposed to stand when the air was neither contracting 
nor expaud.ng. This effect must take place some time in the night, and it seems 
probable, a priori, that it would be about ten or twelve o'clock. Now, as the 
meicury at this hour stands higher than it does by the natural weight of the air 



424 HORARY VARIATIONS OF THE BAROMETER. 

at rest, it is plain that it will begin to fall as soon as the force of the superior 
parts of the air begins to spend itself on the inferior, and when all motion down- 
wards has ceased, the mercury will again be pressed by the natural weight of 
the atmosphere, and so stand at thirty inches. In this situation the sun will rise' 
upon it, and the same fluctuations will be renewed. 

„T3 .. - "J- I*- ESPY. 

"Philadelphia, March, 1, 1827." 



ON THE FORMATION OF ICE AT THE BOTTOM OF 

THE WATER. 



BY M. ENGELHARDT, DIRECTOR OF THE FORGES OF NIEDERBROXX, (LOWER RIUXE.) 



TiTJisIated for the Smithsonian Institution from tlie " Annales de Chimie et de Physique," 

Paris, I860. 



There are not a few natural phenomena wbicli are better known to the people 
than to the learned; and the reason of this is simple. The man of the people, 
always in quest of the means of bettering his condition, observes a phenomenon 
not with a view to investigate its cause, but to derive from it some practical 
benefit. The savant, on the contrary, withdrawn from nature in the meditations 
of the closet, usually recurs to practical experience only when he is led to do so 
by the speculations of theory, and often refuses to recognize the facts which do 
not square with his preconceived ideas. 

Hence it has happened that sundry physicists, Nollet, Mairan, and others who 
have followed them, have denied a phenomenon well known to all the watermen 
and frequenters of the great rivers of the centre and north of Europe : I mean 
the ice which, in severe frosts, forms at the bottom of rivers, and which the 
Germans call grundcis, ice of the bottom. 

The Rhine and the Danube, rivers with a rapid current, do not freeze like the 
Seine by being covered with a plane and uniform stratum ; they bear along large 
blocks of ice which cross and impinge upon one another, and becoming thus 
Leaped together, finally barricade the river. It is a grand spectacle, when the 
Rhine is thus charged, to see these countless drifts adjust themselves in their 
relative position, where they unite by c )ngelation, and convey the idea of the 
fall of some mountain which has covered the plain with rocks of every dimen- 
sion. But it is not this accumulation of ice drifts in the Rhine which is of itself 
the cause of danger ; it is, on the contrary, the debacle or breaking up which is 
often productive of calamitous consequences. When this debacle commences in 
the upper part of the river, above the point where the latter is completely frozen, 
the masses of ice, drifting with the current and unable to pass, are hurled upon 
those already soldered together; thus an enormous barrier is formed which the 
water, arrested in its course, canrot pass over, and hence overflows to the right 
and lett, breaking the dikes, inundating the plains, and spreading devastation 
and suffering far and near. 

The disasters caused by the debacles of the Rhine have taught the riparian 
inhabitants to observe attentively the facts which may serve them as a prog- 
nostic, and put them on their guard against the irruption of the ice. It is thus 
that they have been led to observe the grundeis — that is to say, the ice formed 
at the bottom of rivers, for it is this ice which, in becoming detached from the 
bottom and risii^ towards the surface, unites itself to the under surface of the 
masses already in place, and by further embarrassing the discharge, exposes 
the country to inundation. 

Being intrusted with the direction of important Avorks, I felt it the more incum- 
bent on me to observe with care the daily phenomena which might have an influ- 
ence on our labors, and it is from having followed them with great attention that I 
have found, ds I believe, the true cause of the presence of ice at the bottom of rivers. 

Let us first consider the phenomenon historically as we find it related by 



426 ON THE FORMATION OF ICE 

A 

Horner in tlie Dictionnaire de Physiqne of Gclilen, 111, 127; by Arago, [An- 
nuaire du Bureau des Longitudes 2your 1833,) and by L. F. Koemtz, [Dictionnaire 
Encyclope digue des Sciences et des Arts, pablished by Ersch and Gruber.) 

The physicist Plot appears to have been the first to make mention of the ice 
formed at the bottom of rivers, in his "Natural History of Oxfordshire," 1705. 
Hales, in his "Vegetable Statistics," Loudon, 1731, mentions the existence of 
ice at the bottom of water as having been ascertained by bargemen, and reports 
his own observations. He had seen ice of spongy consistence form at the bottom 
of the river, and remarked that " the water must be in motion in order to have 
sunk to zero throughout its mass," and he pointed out the influence of asperities 
and projecting bodies on the formation of this ice. 

Nollet, in 1743, thought the phenomenon incompatible with theory, and com- 
pletely denied it. Mairan and several other physicists of the epoch shared his 
opinion. 

Nevertheless, Desmarest, in the Memoirs of the Academy for 1776 and the 
Journal de Physique for 1783, t. iii, verified anew the formation of ice at the 
bottom of rivers ; it was afterwards confirmed by Braun, Hanvbrisclies Maga- 
ziv, 1783, and Journal de Physique, 1788; also by Leslie and by Garnet. lu 
1806 observations were made by Knight on the Teirie. Stencke, chief of the 
pilots of Pillau, (Prussia, on the Baltic,) reports in Gilbert's Annalcs de Physique, 
XX, 332, that, on the 9th of February, ISOC, at a temperature of — 32|- degrees 
of Fahrenheit = — 35.11 degrees centigrade, chains 12 feet in length surrounded 
with ice were brought to the surface of the water from a depth of 12 to 15 feet, 
as well as a large cable 30 toises long, which had been immersed for a consid- 
erable time. 

On the 11th of February, 1816, the abbe Branthoma, then jivofessor of chem- 
istry in the Faculty of Sciences of Strasbourg, again verified the formation of 
ice at the bottom of the bed of the Rhine, in presence of the engineers of bridges 
and roads. The temperature of the air was at 12° ; the Ehine, at the place 
where the ice formed, was about 2 metres in depth. The ice was seen to form 
very perceptibly at the bottom of the water, not only at this point, but at many 
others. The thermometer was at zero at the surface of the water, while another 
thermometer introduced into the ice was equally at zero. When taken from the 
water the ice had the same temperature, was very porous, and formed of inter- 
lacing crystals. Towards 10 o'clock the ice, having become more compact, was 
detached from the bottom, and rising floated on the surface. [Bibliotheque Uni- 
verselle, xvii, p. 304.) 

In 1827, Merian observed, at Bale, ice at the bottom of the water in the canal 
of Saint Alban. Li the same year Hugi made a great number of observations on 
the spongy ice formed at the bottom of the Aar, near the bridge of Soleure. 
The very cold winter of 1829 led to the first observations which 1 made at Zins- 
weiler, (Lower Ehine,) and df which I gave notice, the same winter, to the 
Society of Natural History of Strasbourg, then recently instituted.* 

M. Fargeaud, professor of physics, published, in 1830, his thesis on caloric, 
in which he communicated his observations on ice thus formed, in the following 
terms : " On Sunday, January 25, 1830, I happened to be present with several 
of my pupils on the bank of the Rhine, opposite to Kehl. A thermometer, sus- 
pended to a tree, indicated 31° Reaumur; while another, placed in the snow at 
an inch from the soil, stood at nearly 6° Reaumur. Notwithstanding this great 
degree of cold, the water which flowed in the moat of the citadel was frozen 
only on its borders. That part of the bed of the Rhine which by an embank- 
ment of sand was sheltered from the wind, was also destitute of ice. At the 
same tune the thermometer resting on the surface of the water rose rapidly to 

* This society was founded in December, 1828, by certain members of the Society of 
Sciences, A.gricultnre and Arts of the Lower Ehine, viz. , MM. Boeckel, Duverno}-, Ehrmann, 
Engelhardt, Fargeaud, Lauth, Nestler, Silbermann, and Voltz. 



AT THE BOTTOM OF THE WATER. 427 

zero, and wlien plungetl one or two feet deeper ascended to 3A above zero. 
Proceedinji; to the end of the embankment, at a .«liort dit^tance from u very rapid 
current, and in a sort of inlet -where the water had at first but liltle depth, I saw 
all the pebbles covered Avith a kind of transparent moss from an inch to an incli 
and <i half in thickness, composed of crystals of ice combined in every manner ; 
a true crystallization in effect, pron-.olted by the presence of the pebbles, and iu 
all respects similar to that which is furnished by certain salts in our laboratories. 
I'he thermometer indicated zero at this ]ioint, as Avell towards the border as at 
a depth of several feet, in the most rapid })art of the current. We were presently 
able to distinguish in this latter part, at a depth of about five feet, large masses 
of this spongy ice into which an oar could be thrust with the greatest facility, 
and portions which Averc thus detached were found to be exactly similar to in- 
numerable fragments of ice which were then drifting in the river." 

Hence M. Fargeaud concludes : " 1st, that in rivers having a greater or less 
depth and no current the water will long maintain a temperature above zero, 
whether from the warmth of the ground or the small conductive capacity of the 
water, or, in fine, from the very fact of the species of e(|uilibrium which results 
from the maximum of density. AVhen such a river freezes, the ice must of ne- 
cessity form at the surface ; 2dly, that if, on the contrary, the current be very 
rapid, the whole mass must be brought to zero ; 3dly, that the water thus 
brought to zero may preserve for some time its liquid state, especially on a bot- 
tom of ooze or sand, but that in general it Avill be disposed to crystallize, and 
will in fact crystallize wherever any cause shall contribute to produce this change 
of condition." 

M. Fargeaud then adds, in allusion to the facts Avhich I had stated in his 
presence in the Strasbourg Society of Natural History, " that he had learned 
that a superintendent of the forges of the Vosges, in order to prevent the ice 
from forming at the bottom of the stream Avhiclr supplies his works, had caused 
the stones and other extraneous bodies found therein to be removed every year." 
My experiments were afterwards cited by Arago and other physicists with sim- 
ple reference to a " master of the forges of the Vosges." 

Berzelius, in his Comptc Rendu for 1829, also speaks of the ice at the bottom 
of rivers ; he had himself seen the jjhenomcnon but once. He reports the ob- 
servations of Hugi and a letter of M. Heaucourt, published in the Glohc of the 
17th February, 1830. 

Arago, in the Annuairc du Bureau des Longitudes for 1833, relates all that 
was then known respecting ice at the bottom of the water, and gives the following 
explanation of it : " Who does not know that in order to hasten the formation 
of crystals in a saline solution, it is sufficient to introduce into it a body either 
pointed or of uneven surface ; that it is especially around the asperities of bodies 
that crystals take their origin, and receive rapid accretions ? The same, we may 
be assured, is the case Avith the crystals of ice. 

" liut what we have just said," he continues, "is not precisely the process in 
the congelation of rivers ; this Avill scarcely be suspected, I think, if we remem- 
ber that the congelation never occurs on the bed itself except Avhere rocks, peb- 
bles, pieces of wood, plants, &c., exist. Another circumstance which seems 
capable also of playing a certain part in this phenomenon is the movement of 
the water. At the surface this movement is very rapid and sudden ; it must, 
therei'ore, tend to obstruct the symmetrical grouping of the needles in that po- 
larized arrangement, Avithout Avhich crystals of Avhatever nature acijuire neither 
regularity of form nor solidity; it must often break the crystallized nucleus, 
even in its rudimentary state. 

" Movement, that great obstacle to crystallization, if it exist at the bottom as 
at the surface of the Avater, is there at least greatly diminished. It may be sup- 
posed, therefore, that its action Avill only confiict Avith the formation of a regular 
or compact ice, but Avill not prevent in the end a multitude of small filaments 



428 ON THE FORMATION OF ICE 

from uniting with one another cnnfiisedly, in such a manner as to generate that 
kind of spongy ice through which M. Hugi so readily thrust the oars of his 
bateau. 

"Having reached this point, the reader will, perhaps, ask why I do not offer 
the preceding as the complete exphnatiop of the formation of the grundcis of 
the Germans, the bottom ice of our watermen. The following is my answer ; 

" We are still in want of observations to prove that nowhere does this sort of 
ice show itself until the whole mass of the liquid has descended to zero. It is 
not certain that the small needles of ice floating on the liq[uid, of which M. Knight 
makes mention, and which may have acquired, at least at their surface, a tem- 
perature much below zero, do not play an important part in the phenomenon^ 
and one which I have wholly neglected ; that, for instance, of imparting cold- 
ness to the pebbles which cover the bed of the river when the current carries 
them down to it. Might it not be possible even that these floating filaments 
were the principal elements of the future spongy ice ?" 

In 1836 Gay Lussac {Annates de C'kimie et de Pkysiqve, t. Ixiii) recurs to this 
theory of the ice at the bottom of the water. He regards with doubt the first 
explanation of Arago, and adheres rather to the hypothesis of the floating fila- 
ments of which Arago speaks in the last place : " The spongy ice," he says, 
"which is observed on the bed cf certain rivers of rapid current has its origin in 
the small and innumerable flakes of ice which drift on top of such rivers in very 
cold weather, and whose surface in contact with the air is somewhat below zero. 
The submersion of these flakes takes place by means of the current which 
sweeps them along in its movements. Their adhesion, whether to the extraneous 
bodies which cover the bed of the river or to one another, is occasioned by the 
congelation of the film of water at the points of contact, owing to the greater 
coldness of the flakes, while their permanence at the bottom of the water, with- 
out other enlargement than through accumulation of numbers, is explained by 
the constancy of the temperature at zero, which itself could not exist except by 
the efi'ect of a current sufiiciently rapid." 

In 1847 Dr. Plieninger, of Stuttgard, published in the annual report of the 
Wurtemberg Society of Natural Sciences a note, accompanied by an account of 
the experiments made on the Danube by M. Lenke, of Ulm. Three troughs of 
deal plank were immersed in that river, one of which was made of smoothly 
planed boards, the second of rough unplaned boards, while the third had been 
rendered still more uneven by hewing. It was found that in the first no ice 
was formed; in the second there was a deposition of minute crystals ; and in the 
third, considerable groups and accumulations of ice. The results of these ex- 
periments seem to me unfavorable to the views taken by Gay Lussac ; their 
explanation will be hereafter adverted to. 

The following are the experiments which I made in 1829, and which I have 
since, at different times, repeated. For this purpose I employed three kettles 
used for smelting, of about one metre in diameter, which I filled with water. In 
order to judge of the influence of extraneous bodies, I placed at the bottom of 
one of these kettles bits of wood and cast iron ; in another a little water had been 
allowed to congeal ; in the third there was nothing. These extraneous bodies 
exerted no sensible influence on the congelation. At the moment of commencing 
the experiment the circumambient air was at — 2 degrees ; it became colder 
during the night ; the water was at 0°, and was immediately covered with films 
of ice which crossed one another at 30, '60, and 120 degrees, forming very soon 
an entire crust of ice over the surface. The following day I broke this crust, 
which was from 35 to 4U millimetres in thickness ; I decanted the water from 
the kettles, and found the bottom and sides lined with a continuous stratum of 
ice having a thickness of 20 to 25 millimetres. The surface was smooth, ofi'ering 
but here and there slight rugosities ; to these rugosities tufts of crystals of ice 
were found to have attached themselves. 



AT THE BOTTOM OF THE WATER. 429 

In January, 1860, I made new experiments. I took three smelting kettles 
of 650 and 670 millimetres diameter, and a wooden tub of 640 millimetres, and 
filled them with water from the river, which was at -|- 2 degi ees ; the temperature 
of the atmosphere was — 2 degrees in the daytime ; it sunk to — 5 degrees in the 
night. The vessels were placed on supports 200 millimetres in height, with a 
view to having them surrounded with an equal temperature on all sides. The 
next day, the four vessels were found to be covered with a layer of ice 120 to 
140 millimetres thick. On the sides the kettles were covered with a layer of 
ice of 20 millimetres, and from 15 to 20 on the bottom; this stratum of ice was 
smooth, and without rugosities. The wooden tub had a stratum of only some 3 
millimetres on the sides, and a few tufts of crystals. On the bottom appeared 
some isolated films of ice 100 to 110 millimetres in length, 5 to 6 millimetres in 
breadth, and 1 to 2 millimetres in thickness, furnished on the edges with small 
projecting points, planted vertically on the larger film, like the teeth of a saw ; 
these teeth or lateral crystals were 5 to 6 millimetres long, with a breadth of 1 
to 2 millimetres. 

These experiments, repeated on different occasions, at a temperature of from 
— 6 to — 7 degrees, always yielded the same result. A/te)- being covered loith 
a stratum of ice on the surface, the rcssefs were also lined tcith a stratum of ice 
on the sides and at the hottom, as might have been foreseen ; this ice on the walls 
of the vesael is of dif event thickness, according to the conductibiJity and radia- 
tion of the walls. Thus the wooden tub had a thinner layer of ice on its sides 
than the smelting kettles, and ordinarily only some needles of ice on its bottom. 

I observed that in the kettles these layers of ice Avere proportionably thicker 
as the external cold was more intense ; that they were always somewhat thicker 
on the side-walls than on the bottom, and that when once formed these layers, 
themselves a bad conductor of caloric, operated as isolating walls, and scarcely 
received any augmentation in point of thickness towards the interior. I have 
also observed that the surface of the walls, as Avell as the interior surface of the 
stratum of ice which covered the liquid, was sometimes striated by minute lines, 
crossing one another at angles of 30, 00, and 120 degrees. Small pools of water 
of little depth commonly freeze in films which cross one another under the same 
angles. 

In order to observe well the formation of ice at the bottom of water I have 
taken smelting vessels, which I have placed in a refrigerating mixture of snow 
and mai inc salt yielding a cold of — 16 degrees. The circumambient air was 
at -f i3 and + 15 degrees; the Avater at 0°. Naturally, under these circum- 
stances, ice was not produced on the surface of the water, but was produced at 
the bottom of the vessels. The congelation, however, was not always the same ; 
at one time needles would be formed, which might be seen to increase sensibly 
■ util the ascensional force produced by their slight specific gravity had over- 
come the feeble adhesion of their minute base, when they became detached, and 
rising, floated on the surface ; at another time the bottom and the walls were 
very rapidly covered with a thin stratum of smooth ice, marked with the minute 
lines already mentioned in speaking of the ice formed on the walls of the kettles, 
or else with a stratum of spongy ice composed of crystals crossing one another, 
ike the ice at the bottom of rivers. 

It results from these experiments, as might have been foreseen, that ichenever 
a mass of water is cooled below 0^, and the walls which enclose it are also at a 
temi^erature of less than 0°, this water will freeze at the bottom as well as at 
the surface, and that if water usually freezes only at the surface, it is because 
the bottom of the water and the walls are- for the most ixirt at a temjjcrature 
above zero. 

In effect, the earth, always at a temperature above 0^, loses its caloric only 
at the surfice by radiation or by contact with colder bodies. Not only is the 
earth, which forms the bottom and the banks of rivers and great reservoirs of 
water, a very bad conductor of caloric, but the water and ice are still worse con- 



430 ON THE FORMATION OF ICE 

ductors. Ice, being specifically lighter than water, always rises and floats on 
the surface when the ascensional force produced by its less weight has overcome 
its adhesion to the bottom ; it sometimes even draws up with it from the bottom 
of the water bodies still more ponderous than itself. The maximum density of 
water not being at 0°, but at 4°. 44, causes all great masses of water which are 
more or less tranquil, and even such as have a continuous but not whirling 
movement, to maintain, at the bottom, a temperature above zero, even when the 
water is at zero, or frozen on the surface. In winter, at a temperature of — 11 
and — 15 degrees, the reservoir near the forge of Niederbronn, w^hich is but a 
metre in depth, is covered with a stratum of ice 25 centimetres thick, and yet 
the water which flows from it has a temperature of + 3 degrees. 

Owing to this admirable concurrence of circumstances, great masses 6f water 
never freeze to the bottom ; and even when ice does form at the bottom of Avater, 
it eventually becomes detached and floats on the surface. If it were otherwise, 
all our seas, lakes, and great rivers would be but masses of ice which would never 
be thoroughly melted. Yet we see also that whenever Vv'ater becomes cooled 
to 0°, and finds a bottom also cooled to 0°, it congeals at the bottom as well as 
at the surface It is necessary, then, in order that ice may be produced at the 
bottom of water that the latter should be in motion, so that its inferior strata 
shall be cooled to 0^ ; that this cold w^ater shall descend to the bottom of the 
stream; that it shall chill the walls, and finally encounter, in the course of the 
movement, some point of repose where its force of adhesion, its capacity of 
crystallization, maybe exerted. 

To explain this apparent contradiction : A foreign bod}^ an obstacle placed in 
the midst of a current of water, produces thei'e two different eftects ; on one hand, 
it changes the direction of the liquid which strikes it, and gives to that liquid a 
movement of rotation sufficiently strong sometimes to form vortices ; on the other 
hand, the molecules of the liquid -which happen to be immediately behind the 
obstacle pass into a state of repose, and there are points where they become 
stationary and motionless. The conditions here are suitable for the formation of 
ice at the bottom of rivers. The whirling movement produced by the obstacles 
brings the w-ater cooled to 0° to the bottom of the bed of the river, and thus 
chills the w^alls. Hence the molecules of water, nearly motionless behind the 
obstacle, can there exercise their force of adhesion and crystallization. But, in 
order to produce these effects, there must be cold both intense and of some 
duration. 

The influence exerted by these obstacles is evident in the different experiments 
■ w^hich I have related; "we recognize it in the slight, asperities of the unplaned 
and the roughened boards of Lenke, in the pebbles of the Rhine as observed by 
Fargeaud, and the piers of the bridge of the Aar described by Hugh 

With Arago, then, I attribute the formation of ice at the bottom of water prin- 
cipally to the obstacles which occur in the current ; but, in my view, tliese ob- 
stacles are not solely resting points for the crystals, but they serve, on the one 
hand, to augment the movement of rotation, the vortiginous movement by which 
the Avater at a temperature of 0° is made to descend to the bottom of the river; 
and, on the other, hand, they create stationary points in the midst of the move- 
ment, where the crystallizing force can exert itself. 

I have satisfactorily established the influence of these foreign bodies in the 
canal which supplies the works at Zinsweiler. During the winter of 1829 ice was 
formed beneath the water wherever there were large stones, roots, or branches 
of trees which were immersed in the canal. I caused the formation of this ice 
to cease almost entirely by having those extraneous bodies removed. Hence the 
propriety of removing, at least during great frosts, and as far as possible, all 
grates and bars of iron from the neighborhood of canal locks and flood gates ; all 
bodies, in short, which tend to communicate an eddying motion to the water. 

Upon the whole, then, it may be said : I. That water which is exposed to a 



AT THE BOTTOM OF THE WATER 431 

temperature below 0° in a vessel or reservoir whose walls may be easily cliilled, 
is always covered first on its surface by a tliin stratum cf ice, and tbat afterwards 
the walls and bottom of the vessel also become covered Avith a stratum of ice. 
II The thickness of this stratum is in direct ratio to the intensity of the cold, 
and in inverse ratio to the conductibility of the walls ; the stratum of ire itself 
operates as a wall, which is a bad conductor. III. Th-'-e remains, almost always, 
at the centre a certain quantity of water which, surrounded on every part by ice, 
with difficulty loses its latent heat, and does not freeze. Very often, also, a 
bubble of air, which has been disengaged from the water during its congelation, 
is comprised in the mass. But it sometimes happens, through intense and con- 
tinued cold, that the upper ice cracks, and the caloric of the central mass escaping 
by the fissures, the whole congeals, and the surface assumes a convex and pro- 
tuberant form, from the expansion of the ice formed at the centre. IV. The 
plashes or small puddles of water which occur in the roads or fields are promptly 
covered with a thin crust of ice, which assumes the form of films crossing each 
other at 30, 60, and 120 degrees, and leaving void spaces between them; the 
water winch filled them is absorbed by the porosity and capillarity of the sur- 
rounding earth, and, in turn, becomes congealed. V. It is quite otherwise with 
water in large masses, for water at 4'^. 44, being specifically heavier than that 
at 0"^, descends to the bottom, while the water of the surface continues to grow 
colder, and finally is frozen. VI. In order, then, that ice may be formed at the 
bottom of great masses of water, it is necessary, first, that the water should be 
impressed with a movement sufficiently rapid to overcome the superpositicm by 
strata according to the differences of specific gravity, and to bring to the bottom 
the cold strata, so that the water may be chilled to 0° quite to the bottom and 
the inferior walls, growing progressively colder, shall also be brought, to 0° ; 
secondly, that there shall exist in the midst of the current an obstacle against 
which the water impinges. 

In effect, whenever there occurs in a current a body forming an obstacle, the 
collision with that obstacle augments the movement of rotation of the current, 
and may even occasion a vortex or eddy in the water ; it must be recollected at 
the same time that behind this obstacle there is a space where the water is in a 
state of perfect repose — so much so that when the body which forms the obstacle 
is of considerable volume, a deposit of sand and even pebbles takes place at that 
point and forms a sort of delta. It is here that the ice of the bottom, the 
grundvis, is formed, the adhesion of which gradually augments the volume of the 
obstacle and the eifect produced, until the moment when, by virtue of its smaller 
specific gravity, the ice is detached, and is borne to the surface of the water. 

At a session of the Society of Natural History of Strasbourg, May 3, 1864, 
Professor Bertin presented a memoir on the polarization of light by ice, from 
which it appears that the ice furmed at the bottom of water polarizes light in the 
same manner as the ice formed at the surface. 

There is a valuable article on ice, by L. F. Koemtz, in the JEjncyrlopa:die of 
Ersch and Gruber. The specific gravity of ice is there given as follows : ■ Ac- 
cording to Kraft, 0.905 ; Irwin, 0.937 ; Scoresby, 0.9146, 0.9166, 0.9253 ; Royer 
and Dumas, 0.950 ; Osonn, 0.9268. Thomson, in his Chemistry, gives 0.2900, 
which is nearly the mean of the above numbers. 

As regards the form of the crystal of ice, Haiiy thought that it might be de- 
duced from the octahedron. Brewster {Poggcndorff's Annalcn, t. vii, 509) re- 
cognizes hexahedrons terminated by three planes. Hericart de Thury {Ann. de 
Chhnie et Fhysique, xxi, 156) adopts the hexahedral prism. Clarke, ( Trans, of 
the Philosophical Society of Cambridge, 1213,) in a seemingly very exact ar- 
ticle, pronounces for rhombohedrons, with angles of 120 and 60 degrees. This 
is confirmed by Marx and Brewster, {Ann. de Poggendorff, xxxii, 399,) and 
seems corroborated by our own observation of lines crossed at 30, 00, and 120 
degrees, as already noticed. See also Scoresby : Cristillisation de la ncige, in 
the Ann. dc la Chimie et de Physique, t. xviii. 



THE EARTHQUAKE IN EASTERN MEXICO OF THE 
SECOND OF JANUARY, 1866. 



BY DR. CHARLES SARTORIUS, OF 3I1RAD0R, NEAR HUATASCO, DISTRICT OF CORDOVA, 
STATE OP VERA CRUZ, MEXICO. 



[From a letter addressed to the Smithsonian Institution.] 



On the 2cl of January, 1866, at six hours ten minutes in the evening, the 
earth shook without detonations ; the movement seemed to be vertical, and lasted 
some ten seconds ; then followed a strong shock from west to east ; after eight 
seconds another equally strong, succeeded by strong oscillations which endured 
for about twenty seconds, and finally subsided in a tremulous motion. The du- 
ration of the whole phenomenon I estimated here at one minute. The beams 
of houses creaked and were perceptibly moved ; doors opened and closed ; uten- 
sils were thrown down from west to east ; mirrors and pictures on the wall shook 
to and fro ; and a pendulum, which 1 had suspended by a long string, exhibited 
vibrations of one yard for ten minutes after the whole was over. The column 
of the barometer sank and rose — the magnetic needle vibrated. These were the 
phenomena here, but no walls were fractured, and the high chimneys of the 
steam and sugar factories remained uninjured. The hills consist throughout of 
conglomerates, which may be observed in ravines to the depth of 500 feet. 

Huatasco lies about ten miles (English) south from this place, surrounded 
by volcanic hills, (trachite and lava,) in a southwardly direction from which 
project three mountain craters, composed of crystalline limestone. Here the 
effects were much stronger. In the cathedral a part of the dome fell in ; the 
walls of many houses were ruptured ; hundreds of earthen and porcelain vessels 
were dashed to pieces. In two neighboring villages the churches were de- 
stroyed, and large masses of rock were detached in the adjacent limestone 
mountains and rolled into the valley. 

The focus and centre of the whole concussion was the volcano of Orizava, 
which rises ten miles southwestwardly from Huatasco. At its foot, on the east 
side, lies the city of Coscomatepec, of 4,000 inhabitants. Here the concussion 
was so violent that the new and strongly-built parish church, with cupola and 
trebly vaulted dome, was reduced to ruins ; many private houses were rendered 
uninhabitable ; many walls overthrown, but no human life was lost. On the 
west side of the great mountain, the city of St. Andres Chalchicomula suffered 
more than any other ; several churches and numerous houses were destroyed, 
and many of the inhabitants buried under the ruins. 

The history of the country infornis us that the volcano was in activity from 
1559 to 1569, but has since been at rest. Yet, although eruptions may have 
ceased, certain it is that the flame in its depths has not been quenched. This 
is manifested by the columns of smoke which ascend from time to time, thcj^- 
marolles on the sides, glowing hot rocks on the western declivity, hot sulphu- 
rous springs at the eastern foot, &c. On the morning after the earthquake it 
was observed that the snow-covered cone (3,000 feet^ the absolute height of the 
^mountain being 17,800 feet) was almost bare of snow on the south side, while 
the southwest border of the crater had fallen and a vertical cleft of the highest 
peak had taken place. This cleft traversed the entire summit, and from its 



THE EARTHQUAKE IN EASTERN MEXICO 



433 



deepest part gushed great volumes of water. The length of the cleft is esti- 
mated at 1,000 metres ; its breadth at one metre. The volcano is surrounded 
by limestone mountains, and stretches southwardly in a calcareous formation. 
Wherever limestone forms the chief mass of the chain, the effect of the concus- 
sion was greatest. In the village of Chocaman, on the southeast side of the 
volcano, between high calcareous ranges, under which extends a stratum of 
clay slate, the violence of the concussion is most conspicuous. The church 
built in the sixteenth century fell, but of the three stories of which the tower 
consisted, the middle one was precipitated outward, so that the highest fell upon 
the lowest, and remained standing. 




In the city of Cordova the church of the convent of San Antonio, two hun- 
dred years old, sustained the loss of its cupola and the dome of its nave, while 
the parish church — a handsome building with three vaulted naves — is so in- 
jured as to be unfit for divine worship ; the large town hall, with its arcades, the 
hospital, and many private dwellings were likewise so much damaged as to 
threaten to fall. 

Orizava, eight miles west from Cordova, though surrounded by high calca- 
reous ridges, suffered less; the reason of which may be that the town stands on 
the site of an ancient lake, which, after a bed of from six to eight feet of dam- 
earth, contains a thick stratum of chalk, and from its porosity propagated the 
shock Avith less force ; yet damage was not wholly averted. A chur.ch once 

28 s66 



434 OF THE SECOND OF JANUARY, 1806. 

belonging to the Jesuits was thrown down, as was also the upper part of the 
high tower of the cathedral. This part had been but newly built, in order to 
place a clock thereon, when the earthquake of October, 1864, hurled it thirty- 
yards distant towards the market-house ; the reconstruction was resumed, and 
on the day when the clock was placed in position the earthquake again de- 
molished the dome of the tower, but without injury to the clock. 

From Orizava a valley stretches to the southwest, bordered by steep rocks, 
through which passes the highway leading to Mexico. In this valley, which is 
twelve miles long, the concussions were peculiarly violent. Several churches 
and many private houses were destroyed, and a number of persons lost their 
lives. Further to the south the towns of Tehuacan and Oajaca were visited 
most severely ; in the latter five churches were wholly or in part demolished. 
From the report of a traveller the force of the shocks, in the long distance from 
Orizava to Oajaca, was peculiar, the effects being rather extended in length than 
diffused in breadth. The neighborhood of the calcareous mountains, which ri\n 
parallel to the great chain of the Andes, would seem to have determined the con 
ditions of the concussions. 

Northward from the peak of Orizava, it was only quite near that point that 
the movement was violent ; here a church was destroyed. Iti Jalapa, though 
very perceptible, the phenomenon was attended with no damage. The same was 
the case to the east, as, for instance, at Vera Cruz. A strong norther was blow- 
ing at the time, on which account the effects were not perceived on board the 
ships in the harbor. 

To the westward the oscillations were slighter according to the greater distance 
from the peak of Orizava. In Puebla the concussions were strong, but not so 
much so that large buildings were injured. In the city of Mexico the effects 
were mitigated. According to a communication from a point seventy-two miles 
west of the latter city, an earthquake, but of no considerable force, was distin- 
guishable. 

All opinions concur in assigning the peak of Orizava as the focus of the phe- 
nomenon, as it was also in October, 1864, and it would not be surprising if that 
mountain, after a repose of three hundred years, should again commence its erup- 
tions. 

Note. — The following supplementary communication was received from Dr. 
Sartorius, in a letter of the 27th May, 1866 : 

" We had another earthquake at 9.15 a. m. of May 10, 1866, extending from 
the peak of Orizava in a direction from southwest to northeast. There were 
three shocks, at intervals of ten seconds, the last the most severe, followed by 
continvied tremblings ; the duration of the whole was seventy seconds, during 
which the barometer fell one-hundredth of an inch, returning immediately after 
to its original condition. The magnetic needle was without declination, but with 
a strong inclination north. The earthquake was local, only feeble traces having 
been observed in the city of Mexico. The shock was so severe in Orizava that 
several houses were destroyed and some persons killed. The oscillations were 
from north to south ; the time the same. 

" On the 27 th of April a violent shock was noticed southwest of the city of 
Mexico, proceeding from the volcano of Jorullo, of which no traces were observed 
here." 



STATISTICS RELATIVE TO NORWEGIAN MOUN- 
TAINS, LAKES, AND THE SNOW-LINE. 



Department of State, 
Washington, November 22, 1865. 
Sfr: I transmit herewith, for your information, and the use of the Institution, 
a collection of tables, maps, &c., showing the height of the Norwegian mountains, 
with other valuable papers transmitted to this department by the consul of the 
United States at Bergen as enclosures in his despatch No. 52, dated September 
29, ultimo. 

I will thank you to advise this department of the receipt of the same. 
I am, sir, your obedient servant, 

F. W. SEWARD, 

Assistant Secretary. 
Joseph Henry, Esq., 

Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution. 



STATISTICS OF NORWEGIAN MOUNTAINS EXCEEDING THREE THOUSAND 

FEET IN HEIGHT. 

In the geographical publications relative to Norway published in foieign 
countries, the heights of few of its mountains have been given, and even of those 
few, the statements with regard to many are erroneous. I have therefore deemed 
it expedient to compile a table of those Norwegian mountains which exceed in 
height 3,000 feet above the level of the sea. The measurements in all cases 
have been reduced to English feet, the Norwegian foot being equal to 1.029357 
English ; all fractions under half a foot have been stricken out, and all over 
half counted as one. 

The measurements made by theodolite, levelling, or other geometrical methods 
are specified ; all others were obtained by the barometer. I have given all the 
different measurements and results made by different persons, and it will be 
observed that many of these measurements, made at different times, differ 
considerably. Such discrepancies are due to the state of rhe atmosphere and 
forbid perfect confidence in the results, but great heights cannot well be measured 
by levelling or other geometrical methods without involving much time and 
great expense. It is, however, thought that when measurements are made on 
different days, the mean result will be nearly correct. 

The length and breadth of the larger lakes of Norway stated herein are 
derived from Mr. Schoth's Geography, in which the dimensions are given in 
Norwegian miles, all fractions below one-sixteenth of a mile being rejected. 
The dimensions are reduced to English geographical miles, the proportion adopted 
being one Norwegian mile to six English geographical miles. There are, in 
addition to the lakes whose sizes are here given, many smaller, but, as it was 
only my intention to furnish a correct enumeration of the larger ones, as of the 
highest mountains, all less than one Norwegian mde in length have been left 
unnoticed, as being of inferior interest. 

I have also given the height of the snow line indicated by different observers, 
from which it will be seen that the gradual descent of this line toward the 



436 STATISTICS RELATIVE TO NORWEGIAN MOUNTAINS, 

north, as stated by Professor Leopold Von Buch in his travels through Sweden 
and Norway, cannot be fully relied upon. By comparing the various state- 
ments, we must conclude that the height does not only depend upon the lati- 
tude, but also to some extent on the longitude as well as physical conditions of 
the different localities. 

As many of the names of the Norwegian mountains allude to their form or 
other peculiariiies, I have deemed it expedient to give, in alphabetical order, 
explanations of such, derived wholly from Major Vibe's measurements of heights. 

I have also enumerated, in alphabetical order, the authors to whom we are 
indebted for the measurements, with references to the publications in which they 
have been given. 

I am especially indebted to Mr. Carl Stoud Platou, mayor of this city, Mr. 
J. Greelmuyden, A. M. and rector of the Latin school, both authors of geographical 
publications, for much valuable information ; to Dr. Johan Kohren, director of 
the public museum of Bergen, for his kindness in facilitating for me the use of 
the manuscripts and general library of the museum ; and to Mr. J. J. Aastrand, 
director of the observatory of Bergen, for valuable assistance in the arrange- 
ment of this compilation. 

0. E. DREUTZER. 

Consulate of the U. S. of America, 

Bergen, September 28, 1865. 



Heights of mountains over ZfiOOfeet above the ocean. 

THE AMT OF HEDEMARKEN. 

Blekkefjald, Tryssil, in the district of Osterdalen 3,602 feet above the sea, measured 

byKeilhau,intheyear 1838. 
Bratfjeld, east of Fsemundsjd, (lake,) near the Swedish 

boundary 3,045; Horby; 1854. 

Drevfjeld, at Tryssil, Osterdalen, point upon the bound- 
ary line between Sweden and Norway, mark No. 131.-3,222; Hertzberg, by theodolite; 

1849. 

Highest summit of the mountain, mark No. 132 3,442; Hertzberg, by theodolite; 

1849. 

Eldaahogda, between Elvedalen and Ringebu .4,148; Brock; 1827. 

Elgepiggen, at Rendalen, between the river Glommen 

and Lake Fsemund 5,306; Brock; 1827. 

Elgaahaagn, east of Fsemundsjd 4,882; Horby; 1854. 

Faxefjeld, point on the Swedish boundary line, at Trys- 
sil, Osterdal, the southwest horn 3,088. . The north horn, upon the 

Swedish side of the bound- 
ary, southeast of the bound- 
ary mark No. 126. 
2,918; Keilhau; 1838. 
Flerstoten su Faxefjeld. 
Fulufjeld, at Tryssil, upon boundary line, mark No. 127.-3,225; theodolite; Hertzberg'; 1849. 

Do do No. 128.-3,340: theodolite ; Hertzberg; 1849. 

Do do No. 129- -3,538; theodolite; Hertzberg; 1849. 

Grottingbratten, west of the river Glommen, in the dis- 
trict of Rendalen 3,820 ; Brock. 

Grothaagn, east of Lake Fsemund, district of Osterdal .. 4,7U1 ; Horby; 1854. 
Heijehagna, point upon the Swedish boundary, in the 

district of Osterdalen 3,881; Keilhau; 1838. 

3,720; Horby; 1854. 
• 4,069; theodolite; Hertzberg; 1849. 

Humelfjeld, or Graahogda, highest point, district of 

Osterdalen 5,148; Brock. 

5,093; Horby; 1847. 
Nchatten, Osterdalen 4,323 ; amt map. 



LAKES, AND THE SNOW-LINE. 437 

Salfjeld, or Salsfjeld, east of Lake Fsemund, at the 

Swedish boundary, Osterdal 4,ir>3; Hisinger; the north horn. 

3,946: Horby; 1S>4. 

Sorkvola, east of Lake Fsemund, Osterdalen 3,088; Horby; iHoA. 

Svukufjeld, on the Swedish boundary, Osterdalen 4,702; Hisinger. 

4,692; amts map. 

Svukustot, east of Lake Faemund, Osterdalen 4,624 ; Horby ; 18r)4. 

Solen, or Solentinden, southwest of Lake Faemund, Oster- 
dalen 6,176; Kraft, 

5,835; mean of two measurements; 
Horby; 1848. 

Solen, (Storsolen,) at the Little Elvedal, Osterdalen 6,176; Brock. 

Solenkletten, lower peak, separated from Storsolen in 

Osterdalen 4,644 ; Brock. 

Tronfjeld, at Tonset, Osferdalen 5,749; Esmark. 

5,632; Hisinger. 
5,519; Brock. 
5,916; Horby; 1854. 
Tryssilfjeld in about the centre of the parish of Tryssil, 

Osterdalen 3,738; Keilhau; 1838. 

Vonsjognsten, upon the Swedish boundary, in the north 

of the district of Osterdalen 3,420 ; Horby ; 1854. 

3,483; theodolite; Hertzberg. 

THE AMT OF CHRISTIANS. 

Aakerkampen, at Gudbrandsdal, in the district of 

Quicekne 4,632; Brock; 1827. 

Armehornet, at Vang, district of Valders 4,966; Wergeland ; 1843. 

Aursjohoe, at Lorn, Gudbrandsdal 4,152; Wergeland; 1841. 

Bitihorn, in the north of the district of Valders , 5,324; Keilhau and Brock 

Bounaaset, upon Filefjeld, northwest, in the district of 

Valders 4,404 ; Wergeland ; 1 843. 

Bseverhoiden, at Lom, Gudbrandsdal 3,635; Wergeland; 1844. 

Brurskardknatten, at Valders '. 5,017; Wergeland; 1843. 

Digervaide, between Lom and Leesso, Gudbransdalen..5,661; Brock; 1827. 
Dovre range of mountains : 

Blaahat, (at the snow line) 5,353; Naumann. 

Liltvaratiud 5,353; Naumann. 

Fogstuehie, or Graahoe, about the highest of the 
mountain back, south of the river Foldal, between 

Hjaerkin and Fogstuen 5,692; Fearnley; 1841. 

5,685; Brock. 

Knulshoe, east of Kongsvold 5, 456 ; Brock ; 1826. 

Sletfjeldet, upon Dovre 5,457; mean height; Naumann 

Storekuveu, east side of Dovredal 4,885 ; Brock. 

Dryllenaaset, the outer horn between Voldal and Byg- 

denso, (lake,) district of Valders 4,868; Wergeland; 1843. 

Dyringshoe, at Lom, Gudbrandsdal 4,264; this point is of even height 

with Opnaaset, and about 
205 feet lower than the high- 
est top of the mountain of 
same name west of Sover- 
hoe; Wergeland; 1841. 
Elje Vashoe, the lowest point of the ridge, between the 

Great and Little Vashoe (Elje Vashoe) 3,649 ; Fearnley ; 1841. 

Fagersetnaaset, north of lonskardsccter, Valders 5,475; Wergeland; 1843. 

Filefjeld, \ipon the boundary between the Stifts of Chris- 
tiauia and Bergen : 

Stuguuaaset 4,827 ; Wergeland ; 1843, 

Sorfjeld, by Nystuen 3, 163 ; Sommerfelt. 

Formekampen, at Vaage, in Gudbrandsdal 1.-4,836; Brock. 

Fuglhoe, isolated horn between Vee and Gronflyen in 
the high mountain south of Ottavandet, (lake,) Gud- 
brandsdal 4,894 ; Brock. 

FseforkaniiK'u, at Sodorp, Gudbrandsdal 3,945; Brock. 

Gaakilskardet, in the north of Gudbrandsdal 4,952 ; Brock ; 1827. 

Galdebergkuausen, foot of, in the district of Valders 5,059; Brock and Keilhau. 



438 STATISTICS EELATIVE TO NOEWEGIAN MOUNTAINS, 

Galden, at Tyrevand, (lake,) in the district of Valders.. 4,676; Wergeland; 1843. 
Galdhopiggen, great, or Ymesfjeld, the highest mountaiu 

in the north of Europe, at Lorn, Gudbrandsdal 500 feet higher than Glittertinden ; 

also about 8,544 feet; Werge- 
land; 1841; 8,338, or 7, 850, 
about 416 feet below the 
summit, measured by theodo- 
lite ; Hansten and Andersen ; 
1844; mean of three measure- 
ments. 

Glellerjhoe, at Lom, Gudbrandsdal 6,845 ; this point is of even height 

■with Skatithoe, and about 

300 feet higher than Laur- 

* . hoe, and 21 feet lower than 

Eundhoe; Wergeland; 1841. 
Glittertinden, at Lom, Gudbrandsdal ; part of lotunf- 
jelden 8,040; about 50 feet below the high- 
est snow horn ; Wergeland ; 
1841. 
Graahoe, on the range of mountains between the districts 

of Valders and Gudbrandsdal 5,134 ; Brock. 

Graahogda, the highest crag of the group of mountains 
called Klovklon, between Vinebygden and Sodrop, 

Gudbrandsdal 4,837 ; no mountain situated further 

south reaches this height. 

Grindadden, in the district of Valders 5,605 ; mean of three measures ; 

Holmboe; 1829. 

Grotaafjeld, at Lom, Gudbrandsdal 6,382; in about two miles westof this 

is a high tind or horn of even 
height with Sundedalspiggen 
andHaslbrahoe: Wergeland; 
1841. 
6,921 ; Vergeland ; 1845. 

Gronflyen, by the Otavandet, (lake,) Gudbrandsdal 5,043; Brock. 

Gronsendknippen, at Slidre, district of Valders 4,370; Brock and Keilhau. 

Heggerbothovde, or HeggerboUensseter, at Lom, Gud- 
brandsdal 4,505; Wergeland: 1841. 

4,193; Wergeland; 1842. 
Heilstuguhoe, (see Nautgardstinden, ) in the north of Gud- 
brandsdal 7,677; Brock. 

7,537 ; Wergeland ; 1841. 
Heindalshoe, north of Hvindalsvand, (lake,) Hvindal, 

in the Gudbrandsdal 5,970; Brock; 1827. 

Hoggjoemen, between the rivers Tora and Toisa, at Lom, 

Gudbrandsdal 5,707; Wergeland; 1842. 

Hoigien, at Eoekne, in the Gudbrandsdal 3,966; birch timber is found upon 

the summit : Brock. 

Hoitinden, at Gudbrandsdal 3,933 ; Brock ; 1827. 

Itdmandshoeden, between ^tnedal and Ssel, Gudbrands- 
dal ; 5,611; the highest crag is about 100 

feet higher. 
Jetta, upon the ridge between Otavand (lake) and Dovre.5,433 ; Brock. 
Jukuleggen, or Hogeloftseggen, between Valders, Hem- 

sedal, and the inner sogn .■ 6,291 ; Wergeland ; 1845. 

Kalvaahigda, or Hugnaf jeld, in the district of Valders.. 7, 155 ; Brock. 

7,139; Brock and Keilhau. 
Kraakhoved, between Birid and Terpen, Gudbrandsdal. 3,203 ; Suhrland ; 1841. 
Kringla, (see Styrfjeld.) 

Kroshoe, at Lom, Gudbrandsdal 5,712; Wergeland, 1842. 

Kvammenaaset, at Vang, District of Valders 3,901 ; Wergeland ; 1843. 

Kvitingskjolen, at Lom, Gudbrandsdal 6,333; Wergeland; 1841. 

6,587; Brock; 1827. 

Kvilljernklubben, at Vang. Valders 5,170; Wergeland; 1843. 

Lerhoe, at Lom, Gudbrandsdal, (seeNautgardstenden)..7,617 ; Wergeland ; 1841 ; mean of 

several measurements. 
7,677; Brock, 
7,537; Wergeland; 1841. 



LAKES, AND THE SNOW -LINE. 439 

Lomseffffen, at Lom, Gudbrandsdal ; the northeast peak. 4,98-2; Naumann. 

*" 5,087; Wergeland; 184L 

The peak further to the westward 5,977 ; Nauniaun. 

The southwestern peak 0,653; Nauuiann. 

G,92G ; uiean of several measures ; 

Wergeland; 1841. 
6,653; Brock; 1827. 

Lomshorungen, at Lom, Gudbrandsdal 5,661 ; Brock ; 1827. 

6,654; Wergeland; 1842; the latter 
is considered too large. 

Mosebakfjeld, at Lom, Gudbrandsdal 3,596; Wergeland; 1841. 

Muen, orMuven, at Eingebu, Gudbrandsdal 4,756; the last momitaiu south of 

Kiindane and Soienklollen, 
being cone-formed ; Brock. 
Mugnafjeld, (see Kalvaahogda.) 

Mukampen, between Hedalen and Krikne, in Gud- 
brandsdal 5,898; Broch. 

Nautgardstinden, in the north of Gudbrandsdal . .'. 7,677; Broch. 

7,537; Wergeland: 1841. 
Norekampen, between Froen and Kingebu, Gudbrands- 
dal..... ! 3,620; Broch; 1827. 

Nysoterkampen at Ringebu, Gudbrandsdal 3,602 ; Broch ; 1827. 

Pighci'tten, upon Dovre, the last horn upon the, from 

northwest towards Hjserkin, stretching mountain back, 5, 105 ; Brock. 
Pekhpetta, according to Professor Naumann, a high 

point south of Vaataaso, (lake,) upon Dovre 4,632 ; Naumann. 

Prsestkampen, in the north of Gausdal, Gudbrandsdal.. 4, 094 ; Broch; 1827. 
Rundane, also called Rundcrne, the western horn of a 
collection of alps, between ^tuedal and Sael, Gud- 
brandsdal 6,392; Broch. 

The north horn, Hogrund 6,69 1, and over. The Lake Rond 

(Rondsoen) divides Rondeue 
or Rundkumpene into two 
sepal ate groups of moun- 
tains. 

The three southern horns 6,928 ; Broch. 

The furthest off horn, DegeiTund 6,270 ; Fearnley ; 1841. 

Rulen at Gausdal, Gudbrandsdal 4,998 ; Keilhau ; 1843. 

4,936; Brock; 1827. 

Sigurdshopiggen, at Vaage, Gudbrandsdal 5,661; Broch; 1827. 

Skaget, between the districts ot Gudbrandsdal and Val- 

ders 5,548; Broch. 

Skarhoe, on the boundary between Vaage and Lom, 

Gudbrandsdal 5,355; Broch; 1827. 

Skalstenden, or Skardstinden, upon the boundary be- 
tween Lsesso and Lom, Gudbrandsdal 6, 176 ; Broch ; 1827. 

Skarvdalseggen, at Lom, Gudbrandsdal 6,315 ; W^ergeland ; 1841. 

6,326; Wergeland; 1842. 
6,485; Broch; 1827. 

Skotten, at Vang, district of Valders 5,073; Wergeland; 1843. 

Stagsfjeld, at Ringebu, Gudbrandsdal 3,960; Broch; 1827. 

Sletflykampen, at Lom, Gudbrandsdal 4,514; Vergeland ; 1841. 

Snehetten, or Snehtetteu, upon Dovre, Gudbrandsdal.. 8,1 20 ; Esmark. 

7,509; Skreahog is of about the 

same height ; Naumann. 
7,566; Hisinger. 
7,662; Everest. 
7,588; Shultz. 
Stebersberget, between Froen and Rengebu, Gudbrands- 
dal...... .. : 3,602; Broch; 1827. 

Steenflybrsepiggen, at Lom. (See Nautgardstinden.) 

Storhogda, at Laesso, Gudbrandsdal 6,691; Broch. 

Storhopiggeu, at Lajsso, Gudbrandsdal 4,726 ; Broch. 

Stugunaaset. (See Filefjeld.) 

Stygfjeld, upon the boundary of Osterdal and Gud- 
brandsdal: the western horn 5,892; Fearnley; 1841. 

The eastern horn ....6,176; Fearnley; 1841. 

The lowest of the mountain back, stn-tching from 
. Stygfjeld to the Great Kringla, buiug the dividing 
ridge between the rivers Gremsaa and Deraaeu, 
in Gudbrandsdal 3,435 ; Fearnley ; 1841. 



440 STATISTICS RELATIVE TO NORWEGIAN MOUNTAINS, 

Svartdalspiggen, at Lorn, Gudbrandsdal 7,128; this liorn is about fifty feet 

lower than the one in the 
east from this rising horn of 
the same name ; Wergeland ; 
1841. (See Naxitgardstin- 
den.) 

Srarthampen, at Ssel, Gudbrandsdal 4,518; Brock; 1827. 

Synstakerken, at Lom, Gudbrandsnal 4,364; Wergeland; 1842. 

Horfjeld. (See Filefjeld.) 

Tjernhuttiuden, at the north of Gudbrandsdal 7,823; Wergeland; 1841. 

7,079 ; Wergeland : 1843. 

Troldhovd, at Vang, in the district of Valders 3,208 ; Wergeland ; 1843. 

Tvseraadalskerken, or Stsendalskirken, in about the 
centre of the snow plain between Lom, in Gudbrands- 
dal, and Sogn, in amt of North Bergenhus 6,886 ; Wergeland ; 1842. 

Tvserfjeld, at Lorn, in the district of Gudbrandsdal 6,136; Wergeland; 1841. 

Tykningsuen, at Lom, Gudbrandsdal 7,772 ; Wergeland ; 1841. 

Veslefjeldtinden, the oiiter horn, between Lurdal and 

Bsevervand, (lake, ) Gudsbraudsdal 6,912 ; Brock. 

7,224; mean of two measures; 
Wergeland ; 1841. 

Vulueggen, at Lom, Gudbrandsdal, highest horn 5,672; about 300 feet higher than 

the highest Veslefjeld in 
Otadalen. 

Ymesfjeld. (See Guldhopiggen. ) 

THE AMT OP BUSKERUD. 

Augendshoug, at Krydsherred, west of Nouf jeld 3,990 ; Wergeland ; 1840. 

Bjordalsnuten, at Skurdal, in the district of Numedal ..4,527 ; Bassoe ; 1846. 

Bolhovd, at Aal, district Of Hallingdal 3,960 ; Wergeland ; 1845. 

Brakanuten, upon the boundary between Numedal and 

Telemarken, and near the boundary of Hardanger... 4,454 ; Bassoe; 1846. 

4,863; Nseser; 1852. 
Dyna, the highest point of the range of mountains be- 
tween Nses and Aal, at Hallingdal 4,359 ; Wergeland ; 1845. 

Eidsfjeld, at Rollag, highest peak .4,387; Wergeland; 1845. 

4,506; Nasser; 1846. 
4,351; Bassoe; 1846. 

Next highest peak 4,347 ; Naumann. 

Tjeldsenden, the eastern horn upon the mountain, backs 

north of the great (store) Strandef jord, at Aal, in the 

district of Hallingdal 5,935 ; Wergeland ; 1845. 

Hag(>,lbunatten, the southern and highest top of the 

Renfjelds, at Sigdal 4,219; Wergeland: 1842. 

4,148; Wergeland; 184.5. 
Haldalshogda, south of Haldal, on boundary between 

Hallingdal, Borgund, and Uriand 5,740; Wergeland; 1845. 

Hallandsf jeld, in the north of Numedal 3,835 ; Wergeland ; 1845. 

Hallingnallen, horn upon Rensjofjeld at Nses, district 

of Hallingdal .4,391; Wergeland; 1842. 

4,303; Wergeland; 1845. 
Hallingskarven, between the districts of Hallingdal and 

Hardauger 6,073; Keilhau ; 1849. 

Folaskardskarven, horn upon Hallingskarven, at Hal- 
lingdal, near the boundary line of the stift of Bergen.. 6, 432; Wergeland; 1845. ^ 

Prtestholtskarvei), high horn upon Hallingskarven 6,331; Vibe 

Halnekolleu, between Numedal and Hardanger 4,539; Bassoe; 1846. 

Kesttjuvnatteu, at Njbs, Hallingdal 3,494; Wergeland; 1840. 

Hogvarden, the highest mountain top between Eggedal, 

in Sigdal, and Flaa, in Nses, about three miles east of 

the church of Hovland, (Eggedal) 4,793; Wergeland; 1845. 

Jorunfjeid, west of the Tunhovdt jord, Numedal 4,237; Wergeland; 1842. 4,406; 

mean of two measures upon 
different days ; Wergeland ; 
1845. 
Jukuleggen, or Hogeloftseggen, between Hamsedal and 

Valders, at Tudre Sogn 6,281 ; Wergeland; 1845. 

Jorautisen, west of Sperileusjo, (lake) 3,443 ; Keilhmi ; 1838. 

Koipeuatten, upon Renl jeld, Hallingdal 4,453 ; Wergeland ; 1843 



LAKES, AND THE SNOW-LINE. 441 

Krjekjehua, between Numedal, Hallingdal, and Hard- 
aacrer 4,357; Bassoe; 1846. 

Lanj^aasen, two miles east of Rollaflg, (church,) district 

of Numedal 3,013 ; mean of two measures ; Nee- 

ser; 184C. 

Norif jeld, at EollaUg, Numedal 4,941 ; Koilhau ; 1838. 

4,9()2; Werj^eland; 1842. 

Nybunaaset, at Aal, Hallinrrdal .5,631; Wergeland ; 1845. . 

Oddenakken, at Aal, Hallingdal 4,012; Wergeland : 1845. 

PrjBslhoUskavven, horn upon Hallingskarven, east of 

Buckehalliden 6,331 ; see Praesleholtskai-ven, under 

Hallingskarven. 

Raubergskarven, at Aal, in the district of Hallingdal.. 5,945 ; Wergeland ; 1845. 

Rauhellernuten, upon the mountain plateau of Hardan- 

ger, in western Numedal •. 4,696 ; Bapsoe ; 1846. 

Eeinsfjeld, at Aal, Hallingdal .,..5,872; Wergeland; 1845. 

Roislandsfjeld, at RoUaug, Numedal 4,263; Wergeland; 1845. 

Saabolsfjeld, at Flaa, Hallingdal 4,211 ; Wergeland; 1842. 

Saatenatten, upon the boundary between Numedal and 
NiBs, Hallingdal 3,737; Wergeland; 1845. 

Sangerfjeld, at Aal, Hallingdal 3,813; Wergeland; 1842. 

3,940; Wergeland; 1845. 

Sigvidnuten, at Opdal, Numedal 4,098; Bassoe; 1846. 

Skarseggen, Opdal, Rollaug, Numedal 4,336; Bassoe; 1846. 

Skaupsjonuten, between Nuiiiedal and Hardanger 4,665; Bassoe; 1846. 

Skogshorn, at Hemsedal, Hallingdal 5,661; ard 2,500 above the base; 

Koilhau. 

Skrpeken, upon the mountain plateau of Hardanger, 

west at Opdal, Rollaug, Numedal 4,697 ; Bassoe ; 1846. 

Slaabefjeld, about one mile west of the church of Rol- 
laug, Numedal 3,460; Wergeland; 1845. 

Syuhovde, at Rollaug, in the district of Numedal 3,461 ; Naeser ; 1846. 

3,719; Naumann, 
3,893; Nseser; 1846. 

Synhovd, at Opdal, Rollaiig, Numedal, about twenty 
miles northwest of the aforenamed Synhovde, with 
which it should i:ot be exchanged 4,651; Bassoe; 1846. 

Syuingen, horn, about four miles northwest of Terpe, 
Hallingdal 3,478; Keilhau & Suhrland; 1842. 

Sollandsf jeld, on the west side of Eggedal 3,475 ; Wergeland ; 1842. 

Tjonaasnaasen,orTjj)ernaasnaaseu, at RoUaiig, Numedal 3,813; mean of two measures upon 

different days ; Bassoe; 1846. 

Tunhovdaas, at Rollaug, Numedal 3,449; Wergeland; 1845. 

Usletiud, at Aal, Hallingdal 4,633 ; Bassoe ; 1846. 

THE AMTS OP JARLSBERG AND LAURVIG. 
There are no mountains in these amts over 3,000 feet. 

THE AMT OF BRATSBERG. 

Aardalssaata, at Hviteseid, district of Ovre (upper) The- 

lemarken 3,695 ; Bassoe ; 1847. 

Baasnuten, at Aamotsdal, Thelemarken 4,747; mean of two measures upon 

difl'erent days ; Bassoe ; 1846. 
4,732; Bassoe; 1847. 
Blaanuten, the highest summit of Haakenaesfjeld, at 

Tiud, Telemark 3,997; Haakenfjeld is the base at 

Gausta; Smith. 
Blefjeld, upon the boundary between the districts of 

Numedal and the Thelemarken 4,304 ; Maochmann. 

West Blefjeld 4,463 ; N;eser ; 1846. 

East Blefjeld 3,919; Njeser ; 1846. 

Bosuuteu, by the lake Mjosero in the Thelemarken 4,691 ; Naeser; 1853. 

Brakauuten, between Numedal and the Thelemarken, 

near the line of Hardanger 4,463; Bassoe; 1846. 

4,863; Nasser; 1852, 

Brokefjeld, at Hvtteseid, in the Thelemarken 3,488 ; Suhrland and EUesen. 

3,599 ; Njeser ; 1647. 



442 STATISTICS KELATIVE TO NORWEGIAN MOUNTAINS, 

DiupMohovde, at Tind, in the Thelemarken 4,893; Bassoe; 1847. 

■^ ^■' 4,854; Njeser; 1853. 

Eirfjeld, at Hoidalsmo, Laurdal, Thelemarken 3,398; Bassoe; 1847. 

Eistenfjeld, at Tyresdal, Moland, in the Thelemarken. 3,9 12; Bassoe; 1847. 

Erthamraer, in the south of Hjertdal, Thelemarken 3,533; Bassoe; 1847. 

Fliseo-o-en, at Vinie, in the Thelemarken 5,341 ; Bassoe ; 1847. 

5,31-2; Nseser; 1853. 

Glug^varde, at NissedM, in the Thelemarken 3,035; Naeser ; 1847. 

Glugsvardeggen, west of Vinje, in the Thelemark, near 

the boundary of the stift of Bergen 4,311 ; Bassoe ; 1847. 

Grasnuten, at the upper Thelemark, near the boundary 

of the stift of Bergen 4,961; Bassoe; 1847. 

Goustafjeld, in the district of Thelemark 6,268; Esmark. 

6,259 ; Schouw and Smith. 
6,182; Smith. 
6, 1 34 ; Mashmann. 
6,169; Holmboe; 1829. 
6,] 59; Bassoe; 1846, 
6,231 ; Nseser ; 1853. 
Hegefield, west of Nesservandet, (lake,) at Hviteseid, 

Thelemarken 3,454; Nseser; 1847. 

Hellekionnuten, at the east of Tind, Thelemark 4,007; Nseser; 1846. 

Himingen, at Hjsertdal, in the Thelemark 3,444; Bassoe; 1847. 

Hsette, upon the mountain plateau of Hardanger, at Tind, 

Thelemark, 12 miles north of Mjosolvandet (lake)... 4,653; Bassoe; 1846. 
Juvigfjeld, upon the east side of the north of Lake 

Miosen, Tind, Thelemarken 5,017; Smith. 

4,951; Bassoe; 1846. 
5,176; (this latter point of the moun- 
tain is not the one measured 
by Bassoe ; ) Nseser ; 1853. 

Kjelsnuten, or Kilsnnten, at Vinje, Thelemark 4,308; Bassoe; 1847. 

Kollingerne, south of Hviteseid, upon the boundary be- 
tween Vraadal and Torrisdal, Thelemarken 3,111; Naeser; 1847. 

Krekledyrfiottet, uponHaukelidsfjeldet, atVang,Thele- 

marken...: 3,657; Holmboe; 1829. 

Kvamsfjeld, at Tind, in the district of Thelemarken.. .4,789; Smith. 

Maarsnaas, -at Tind, Thelemarken 4,853 ; Bassoe ; 1846. 

4,668; Bassoe; 1847. 
Medlfjeld store, (great,) at Vinje, in the district of 

Thelemarken - 4,684; Bassoe; 1847. 

Mselfjeld, or Melfjeld, at Siljord, Thelemarken 4,696; mean of two measures made 

upon different days ; Bassoe ; 
1847. 
4,672; Nseser; 1853. 

Oklednuten, at Tind, on the Thelemarken 4,195; the highest point north of the 

extent of mountains between 
the Thelemarken and Eems- 
dal; Nseser; 1846. 
4,099; Nseser; 1853. 

Prsestetinden, at Tind, Thelemarken 4,153; Bassoe; 1846. 

Kaulandsfjeld, west of Lake Mjosen, at Vinje, Thele- 
marken 5,157; Bassoe; 1847. 

5,098; Nseser; 1853. 

Eautefjeld, at Mo, on the Thelemarken 4,487; Bassoe; 1847. 

Eohottsfjeld, upon the boundary between Vraadal and 

Hviteseid, Thelemarken 3,348; Nseser; 1847. 

Kusf jeld, upon the boundary between Nissedal and Mo- 
land, Thelemarken 3,345; Nseser; 1847. 

3,117; Bassoe; 1848. 

Eseksjohovde, at Tind, Thelemarken 4,977; Bassoe; 1847. 

Selsnuteu, between Vinje, on the Thelemarken, and 

Suledal, Eyfylke ■ 4,572; Bassoe; 1847. 

4,551; Nseser; 1853 

Skarf jeld, at Tind, Thelemarken 4,923 ; Bassoe ; 1846. 

Skorvefjeld, at Siljord, Thelemarken, in northwest from 

the church 3,942; above the Paronaye at Siljord, 

Carpelan. 
4,448; Bassoe; J 847. 
Storefjeld, in the western part of the Thelemarken 4,887; Bassoe ; 1847. 



LAKES, AND THE SNOW-LINE. 443 

Tangef jeUl, at Vinje, in the Theleinarken 4,677 ; Mashmann ; 1832. 

Tesungiiud, in the north of Tind, Thelemarken 4,(33{>; mean of two measures upon 

different days ; iJassoe; l84G. 

Tiudenfjeld, at Tind, iij the Thelomarhen 3,842 ; Smith ; 1»12. 

Tjonnetjcld, north of Tyrisvand, (lake,) at Moland, 

Thtleinaiken 3,399 ; Bassos ; 1847. 

Urdnaasfjeld, upon the boundary between the parishes 
of Mo and the annex of Skaffe, Thelemarken 4,865; Bassoe ; 1847. 

Vasdalseggcn, between Vinje, in the Thelemarken, and 

Suledaf, iu Eyfylke 5.433 ; Nseser ; 1853. 

Vatndalsuuteu, between Tind and Vinje, Thelemarken. . 4,932 ; Mashmann ; 1832. 

Vehuskja-ringa, at Laurrlal, Thelemerken 4,508 ; Bassoe ; 1847. 

Veuaast'jeld, at the south end of Tindso, (lake, ) Hjert- 

dal, Theletnarkeu 3,480 ; mean height of two measures ; 

Nieser; 1846. 

Vindeggen, in the west of Hjertdal, in the west of The- 
lemarken 4,895; Bassoe; 1846. 

4,927; Bassoe; 1847. 

.^vaberg, in the north of Tind, Thelemarken 4,629; Bassoe; 1846. 

THE AMTS OF NEDENiES AND ROBVGDELAGET. 

Aureskoref jeld, at Bykle, iu Valle, amt of Robygde- 

lagct 4,240; Falkenberg; 1852. 

Gruvletind, at Hyllestad Valle 3,767; Najser; lci49. 

Holme vasnulen upon Hektjeld, between the amts of 

Lister and Mandal and Kobygdclaget 3,277; Bassoe; 1850. 

Kislefjeld, at Hyllestad, Valle Robygdelaget 3,393 : Nreser ; 1849. 

Kjondalsuuteu, upon Hektjeld, Robygdelaget 3,o31 ; jiassoe; 1850. 

Ljomsuet, at Valle, Robygdelaget 4,155; mean of two measurements; 

Nseser; 1849. 

Rusfjeldhei, at Opslat, Bygland, Robygdelaget 3,510; mean of two measurements; 

Naeser; 1849. 

Strandef jeld, at Bykle, Valle Robygdelaget 4,599 ; Nteser ; 1849. 

Svarvarnct, Valle Robygdelaget 4,499; Nseser; 1849. 

Uroedaisknuden, at Valle, Robygdelaget ,4,636; Keilhau; 1839. 

4,739; Falkenberg; 1832. 
Vatndalsfjeld, at Bykle, Nalle, Robygdelaget 3,739; Naumann. 

THE AMTS OF LISTER AND MANDAL. 

Bergcheia, at Siredal, amt of Lister and Mandal 3,496; Bassoe; 1850. 

Gmbbaaf jeld, at Lister 3,602 ; Keilhau ; 1 839. 

Hilleknuden, at Lunde, Tonstad, Lister 3,957; mean of two measures by 

Falkenberg ; 1852. 
Holmevasnulen, upon Hekfjeld. between the amts of 

Robygdelaget and Lister and Mandal 3,274; Bassoe; 1850. 

Silfarrinden, upon Hekfjeld, at Lister 3,226 ; Bassoe ; 1850. 

Skaaret, upon Hekfjeld, Lister 3,385 ; Bassoe ; 1850. 



THE AMT OF STAVANGER. 

BrandeKUuden, at Aardal, in the district of Ryfylke.. .3,774 

Bakkedalsskardit, at Lunde annex, Ryfylke 3,3.59 

Faalasprangknuden, at Hole, Ryfylke 4,028 

Grodalsheia, at Hole, Ryfylke 3,719 

Hustveitsaata, at Suledal, Ryfylke 3,941 

Lysekammeu, at Hole, Ryfylke 4,344 

Napenf jeld, at Suledal, Ryfylke 4,427 

Skaapkuuden, at Hole, in the district of Ryfylke 3,185 

3,153 

Natlandsnuden, at Suledal, Ryfylke 3, 1 38 

Skaulen, at Suledal, Ryfylke 5,172 

Snenuten, at Suledal, Ryfylke 5,266 

Vasdalseggen, between Suledal and Vinje, Ryfylke 5,433 

Venjokula, at Birkreno, Yoederen 3,028 

Vingenuten, at Suledal, Ryfylke 3,587 



Falkenberg; 1853. 
Falkenberg; 1852. 
Falkenberg; 18.52. 
Falkenberg; 1852. 
I-'alkenberg; 1853. 
Falkenberg; 1852. 
P"'alkeuberg ; 1853. 
Falkenberg ; 1 852. 
Falkenberg; 1852. 
Falkenberg ; 1853. 
Naeser ; 1853. 
Naeser; 1853. 
Nffser; 1853. 
Falkenberg; 1852. 
Nicser; 1853. 



444 STATISTICS RELATIVE TO NORWEGIAN MOUNTAINS, 



THE AMT OP SOUTH BERGENHUS. 

Fjeldsjoberg, at Graven, in the district of Hardanger, one 

mile south of the boundary of the stift of Bergen 4,756; Bassbe; 1846. 

Folgefonden, snow-covered mountain at Hardanger: 

Njuen, upon the northeast comer 4,933; theodolite; Sexe; 1859. 

5,034; Sexe; 1859. 
The lower edge of the snow upon Valaberg, (gla- 
cier, ) half mile southwest of Njuen 3,628 ; Sexe ; 1859. 

Buersdal, the lower edge of the glacier, (Isbrse).. .3,656; Sexe; by theodolite ; 1859. 

The lower edge of the snowbrse at Odde 3,536; Sexe; 1859. 

Blaavand, (lake,) at the lowest edge of the glacier.. 3,391; Sexe; 1850. 
The lowest edge of the glacier six miles west of the f 

estate of Brsekke, at Odde 3,542; Sexe; 1859. 

Kjarengbotten, six miles from the estate Ekemo, at 

Aakrefjord, the lower edge of the glacier 2,669; Sexe; -1859. 

Upon the summit of the snosvbra, three miles south- 
west from Melderskin 4,386; Sexe; 1859. 

Urabotten, the lower edge of the snowbra east of 

Ore, at Mauranger 3,400; Sexe; 1859. 

The lower edge of the snowbra northeast of Ore, 
Mauranger, at the northwest corner of Folgefond, 

at a lake called luklavandet 3,261 ; Sexe ; 1859. 

The mountain plateau under the north edge of the 

Folgefond 4,567; Falkenberg; 1855. 

The greatest height of Folgefond, Hundsoere 5,456; Hertzberg. 

5, .322; Smith. 
5,322; NfEser; 1852. 
Regnenuten, which, according to the observations 
of Professor Naumann, is the highest summit of 

Folgefona 5,396; Naumann. 

5,343; Smith. 

Thorsnuten, upon the north of the Folgefond 5,250; mean of two measures; 

NfBser; 1852. 
5,169; mean of two measures; 

NjEser; 1852. 
4,941; Sexe; 1839. 
Upper plateau above Tokheim, six miles from 

Sorsefjord 5,456; Hertzberg. 

Saxaklep, one of the highest points north upon 

Folgefond 4,632; Naumann. 

Solnuten, opposite Ullensvang 4,786; Hertzberg. 

4,834 ; Sexe ; by levelling. 
The highest point of the highway between Rusaeter 

and londal, close by Saxaklep 4,519; Naumann. 

Gjonekvittingen, (Smith,) Gronekvitingin, (Sommer- 
feldt, ) (lonakvitingen,) between Haalandsdal and 

Strandebarm, in the district, of Hardanger 3,899 ; Smith. 

3,843; by Kraft. 
Gulfjceld, at Samnanger, in the districtofSondhordland. 3,239; mean of three measures; 

.Ngeser; 1852. 
3,088; Naumann. 

Haafjeld, at Elm, Sondhordland 3,159; Falkenberg; 1853. 

Hallinoejokelen, the highest mountain in Hardanger. ..5,713; at a point upon Hallingjo- 

kelen, 206 feet below the 
highest summit. 
5,352; Suhrland; 1842. 

Hallmskarven, between Hallingdal and Hardanger 6, 073 ; Keilhau ; 1 849. This moun- 

tain does not appear to be 
much over 5,000 feet, but is 
one of the highest points be- 
tween Hallingdal and Har- 
danger. Naumann, Smith, 
Forsell, Olsen, and Heissin- 
ger, are all giving precise 
heights, but in their time 
this mountain was not yet 
measmed. (Vibe.) 



LAKES. AND THE SNOW-LINE 445 

Tolaskarcislcarven, the most easterly and hifrlieat 
horn of HalJiugskarven, about the middle of this 

mountain, at Aal, in the district of Hallingdal - ..6,43L In the immediate vicinity of 

Tolaskardskarven are several 
yet higher horns, but those 
are within the boundaries of 
the stiff of Bergen ; those 
are lokulen, which is calcu- 
lated to be 6,536; Vosses- 
kavlen, 6,74"2 ; Inforebraeu 
and Blaaskavlen, east of Ur- 
land and north of Vosses- 
kavlen, 6,176 ; Wergeland ; 
1845. 
PrsBStholtskarven, horn upon Hallingskarven 6,330. Further to the south are sev- 
eral liigher mountain backs, 
of about 100 feet higher than 
this. 

Halnekollen, between Hardanger and Numedal 4,539 ; Bassoe ; 1846. 

Hardangerfjeld, dividing ridge of the east and west 
mountains, or mountain division : 

Haarteigen, at Kinservig, Hardanger 5,567 ; Smith and Hertzberg. 

5,549; Keilhau and Suhrland ; 1842. 
5,540; Noeser; 185-2, 

Hondalsnuten, at Vang, in the district of Voss 4,782 ; Falkeuberg ; 1856. 

llundsoira, see Folgefond. 

Hogeheia, at Eldfjord Hardanger, near the line dividing 
the districts of Hardanger, Numedal, and upper (dvre) 

Thelemarken 4,672 ; Bassoe ; 1846. 

Ildebrudfjeld, at Vangen, in the district of Voss 3,633; Falkenberg; 1856. 

Ildhusfjeld, at Hosanger, in the district of Nordhordland. 3,923; Falkenberg; 1856. 
Inforebraen, see Hallingskarven. 

lengledsmilen, at Eldfjord, Hardanger 4,541; Bassoe; 1846. 

lokelen, see Hallengskarven. 

Kallenuten, upon the boundary between the districts of 

Voss and Hardanger 4,471; Naeser; 1852. 

Kvetenaase, at Vangen, Voss 4,751; Falkenberg; 1856. 

Kvetingen, at Strandebarm, in Hardanger 4;250 ; mean of two measures ; Nae- 
ser; 1852. 
4,123; Falkenberg; 1856. 

Lorhaeorje, at Vangen, Voss 5, 135; Falkenberg ; 1856. 

Melderskin, see Folgefond. 

Nupseggeu, at Eoldal, Hardanger 5,753; mean of three measures ; Nae- 
ser ; 1852. 
5,667; Naeser; 1853. 
Prsestholtskarven, see Hallingskarven. 
Kaveldseggen, at Ullensvang, Hardanger, near the 

church 4,497 ; Von Buch. This range of 

« mountain rises some hundreds 

of feet higher, but is of about 
even height for thirty-five or 
forty miles in distance. 

Skupsjonuten, near Eidsfjord, Hardanger 4,665 ; Bassoe ; 1846. 

Solbjorgnuten, at Standebarm, Hardanger 4,290 ; Falkenberg ; 1856. 

Steiubuhein, at Eidsfjord, Giaven, Hardanger 4,319; Wergeland; 1845. 

4,602; Bassoe; 1846. 
Storrust, upon the boundary between Voss and Vigor, 

Hardanger 3,977; Naeser; 1852. 

Salhefonden, at Ullensvang, snow-covered mountain, 

Hardanger 4,778; Smith. 

4,729 ; Topographical and Statistical 

Collections, page 30; notes 

of Forsell 4,850 Swedish feet, 

but it is observed by Major 

. Vibe that he adopted the 

measurement made by Smith, 
Avithout himself having meas- 
ured it. 
Trondevardnuten, at Eidsfjord, in the district of Har- 
danger 1 4,644; Bassoe; 1846. 



446 STATISTICS RELATIVE TO NORWEGIAN MOUNTAINS, 

Vasf jseren, at Ulvig, Hardanger 5,353; Nfeser; 1852. 

5,361; Falkenberg; 1856. 
Vesholda, at Strandebarm, in the district of Sondhord- 
land • 3,520; Falkenberg; 1865. 

THE AMT OP NORTH BERGENHUS. 

Dyrbougen, east of Skagastolen, at Fortiin, in the dis- 
trict of Sogn 4,009; mean of three measures; 

Holmboe; 1829. 

Dyrhongstinden, near Skagastolstinderm, Sogn 6,538; Bohr. 

Haldalshogda, upon the south side of Hildal, between 

Borguud, Urland, and Hallingdal 5,749 ; Wergeland ; 1845. 

Ibkuleggen.the highest point, also called Hogeloftseggen, 
between Hemsedal and Valders 6,291 ; "Wergeland ; 1845. 

Kamphammerne,ar, Lorn, in the district of Gudbrandsdal. 4,272 ; Langberg. 

Koldetind, at Koldedal, in the district of Inner Sogn. ..7,247 ; Bouk and Keilhau. 

Kvanshift, (store,) north of Dalsfjord, at Sondfjord.. .3,705 ; Naumann. 

Lodalskaupe, at Nordf jord : 

The south horn, probably the Little Lodalskaupe. .6,292; Bohr. 

The eastern or highest horn 6,596 ; (namely, 304 feet higher than 

the south horn ; ) by levelling; 
Bohr. 

The base of the store Lodalskaupe 3,993 ; Naumann. 

Snekuppe, between the two Lodalskaupes 6,496 ; Naumann. 

Ringstinderue, at Aurdal, in the Inner Sogn, two horns 

of the same height 6, 176 ; Holmboe. 

Skagastolslinderne, several mountain horns in the inner 
Sogn: 

See Nautgardstinden 7,566; Keilhau and Boeck. 

7,185; Naumann. 

7,180; (by geometrical methods;) 
Bohr. 

The northern horn 7,180; by levelling; Bohr. 

The horn furthest to the west, which is probably the 

same as above, is called the north 7,170 ; Holmboe. 

The middle horn 7,678; Holmboe. 

The eastern, (Horungen) 8,086; Holmboe. 

Sulutiud, upon Filefjeld, at Serdal, Inner Sogn 5,887 ; Von Buch. 

5,729; Naumann 
Sundalshammaren, between the east and west, running 
mountain stream, upon Langefjeld, between Sundal, 

at Opstryn, Norfjord, and Randal Lom 4,137; Naumann. 

Surnesselnaasen, at Krogen, in the Inner Sogn 4,028; Ravenaasen and Melkekol- 

len, on the opposite side of 
the fjord, of about the same 
height ; Holmboe. 
Tvseraadalskirken, or Stendalskirken, in the centre of 
the snow-p'ain, between Lom and Gudbrandsdal, in 

the stift of North Bergenhus 6,885; Wergeland; 1842. 

Vangsnen, at lustedal, Inner Sogn 5,864 ; Holmboe ; 1829. 

THE AMT OF ROMSDAL. 

Hjelmen, northwest of Bserufjord, district of Nordmr.. 3,201 ; Suhrland; 1841. 
Romsdalshorn, at Gryten, in Romsdal 4,117; Naumann. 

THE AMT OP SOUTH DRONTHUM. 

Dovre range of mountains : 

Knutshoe, east j»f Kongevold, upon the boundary 

between Gudbrandsdal and Opdal 5,456; Brock; 1826. 

Kolla, west of Driva river, four miles in northwest 

from Hjserkin 5,548; Brock. 

Nunsfjeld, Stenkolla, SkrunskoUe 6,794: 1,030 feet higher than the 

mountain pass between LsRS- 
s6 and Opdal ; Naumann. 
Rottesjohoe, four miles northeast from Hjorkin ..5,412; Brock. 

Rodalshoiden, north of Foldal 4,800; Kratt. 

Graasia, at Tydal, Srinden, and Sselbii 3,398; Horby. 

Grythatten, at Opdal, in the district of Guldal *.. 4,526; Suhrland; 1841. 



LAKES, AND THE SNOW-LINE. 



447 



Haftorslot, on the Swedish boundary, at the parish of 

Rorass 3,762; Horby; 1851. 

Haininerklep, (the little,) at Trysil, near the Swedish 

boundary 3,257 ; Horby ; 1854. 

Langsovola, at Tysil, near the Swedish boundary 3,047 ; Hissiuger. 

Eeisefjeld, at Meldal, in the district of Orkedal and 

Guldal 3,773 ; Heiberg ; 1859 

Rulefjuld, upon the Swedish boundary, east of Lake 

Aursuen 3,639 ; Kissinger. 

Skarsfjcldene, upon the boundary between Tydal, in 
Islbo, and Herjedal, in Sweden ; the highest horns, 

Gronstenstop 4,964 ; mean of two measures ; Hor- 
by; 1854. 

Granittop 4,993 ; Horby. 

North Skarsfjeld, upon the Swedish boundary 4,705 ; mean of two measures; Hor- 
by; 1854. 
Skibrof jeld, upon the Swedish boundary, in the parish 

of R6rass ; boundary mark No. 146 3,603 ; by theodolite ; Hertzberg ; 

1849. 
Sylf jeld, upon the Swedish boundary, between Saelbu 

and Yeinteland ; the highest horn, Syltoppen 5,869; Hissinger. 

Vegelf jeld, upon the Swedish boundary, between Lake 

Ferugen and Herjedal, in Sweden 4,618; Other points of this range 

of monntaius rises some hun- 
dred feet higher. Hissinger. 
Vegelskaflet, a lower top of the Veogelfjelds, in the 

parish of Rorass, boundary mark No. 147 3,965 ; Hertzberg ; by theodolite ; 

1849. 
Oef jeld, at Tydal ; Saelbu, west of Esand 4,250 ; Horby ; 1854. 

THE AMT ON NORTH TRONDHJERN. 

Bergsluen, upon the mountain called Gluken, near the 

Swedish boundary, at Meraoeger, in the district of 

Stdrdal 3,270; Horby. 

Fosdalsf jeld, the highest horn in the district of In- 

deroen 3,602; Keilhau; 1831. 

Gusledpiggen, in the district of Inderoen 3,304; Keilhau; 1831. 

Hermansnaasen, in the upper part of the district of 

Vardal 3,773 ; (geometrical method; )Schult;. 

Jomafjeld, near the Swedish boundary 3,767 ; Keilhau; 1831. 

JjErsofjcldene, in the district of Inderoen Greatest height4,323; Keilhau; 1831. 

Kjolhaugeu, near the Swedish boundary, east of Stordal.4,190 ; Hissinger. 
Sibmcken-Soupts, upon the Swedish boundary, in the 

north of Namedal, the lower edge of the glacier 3,443; Keilhau; 1831. 

Sibmekfjeld, at the Swedish boundary, district of Nam- 

dalen About 4,735 ; Keilhau. 

Skja3kerhatten, the horn farthest to the north of Skjae- 

kcrfjeldene, in the east of SparbucE, in the district of 

Inderoen 4,801; Schult. 

THE AMT OF NORDLAND. 

Buextinderne. (See Hoitinderne.) 

Brurskanken, at Vefsen, Helgeland 4,338; Suhrland; 1843. 

Borsvatstindeme (See Hoitinderne.) 

Habris-Vaggie. (See Hoitinderne.) 

Hatten or Half jeld, at Helgeland 3,781 ; Sohrland ; 1843. 

Himmeltiudenie. (See Bensjortinden, in the Finmark.) 

Hoitinden, between Glomsfjord and Byerf jord,at Saeten. 4,476. There is another horn further 

to the westward, perhaps a 
little higher. Upon the west 
side of Buerfjord rises Stor- 
myrtinden, Habris-Vaggie, 
and Romel Zhrok to a height 
of at least 3,600 feet. Further 
to the northward is a group of 
mountain horns called Buer- 
tinderne or SmaatJnderne, 
Sandvats, and Borsvatstin- 
deme, which all are over 
3,000 feet high. Keilhau. 



448 STATISTICS RELATIVE TO NORWEGIAN MOUNTAINS, 



Jadnemsriset — point of tte Swedish boundary ; also be- 
tween the amts of Dronthum and Nordlaud 



3,933. 



Eigs-graudsen,(the boundary between Sweden and Nor- 
way;) middle height in Vessen, between boundary 
marks Nos. 207 and 208, near Harevand, (lake,) Helge- 
land 3,278; 

Eonsdalsfjeld, at the Opot. (See Bensjordtinden.) 

Sandhomet, at Gildeskaal, district of Salten 3,268; 

3,184; 

Strandofjeld or Strandaafjeld, at Folden, Satten 3,202; 

Sulitelma, near the Swedish boundary, at Salten : 

The base of the horn 5,902 ; 

The horn Almajalus ^ 5,542; 

The North Saulo 5,658; 

Lomme- Javre 2,265 ; 

Troldtinderne. (See Strandefjeld.) 

Vefsen, at Helgeland, Brurskanken. ^ 4,338. 



Other points upon this range 
of mountains are higher. — 
Keilhau; 1831. 



Suhrland. 

Everest. 
Essing. 

(by geometrical method ; ) 
Wahleuberg. 

Wahlenberg. 
Wahlenberg. 
Wahlenberg. 
Wahlenberg. 

In the vicinity of this is situ- 
ated Gedetind, about 200 feet 
hisrher. Suhrland. 



THE AMT OP FINMARK. 

Arbust-tinden or Aarbust-tinden. (See Bensjordtinden.) 

Akka-Oalgek, in the district of Talvig 3,395 ; 

Arnc, in the district of Senjero and Tromso about 3,000; 

Bensjordtinden, between Balsfjord and Malangen 4,013; 

Tromsdalsfjeldet, opposite Tromso, the group Ger- 
ragas Zhjokko, or the glacier south of the junc- 
tion of the rivers Bardu and Mols, Faxetinden, 
east of Andergo, Arbusttinden upon Andorgo, 
and Nonsdalsfjeldet, at Ofoten, all of these reach 
between 3,000 and 4,000 feet; also Vandtinden, 
upon Vandb, Tussen upon Gryto, Mosadlen upon 
Hendo, Vaagekallen upon east Vaage, and Him- 
meltinderne upon west Vaage, reach a height 
between 3,000 and 4,000 feet; Keilhau. 

Golze-Varre, (Kavringtinden,) two miles south of 
Lyngsudet 4,195; 



ledke, the highest mountain upon the island of Sieland, 
south of Hammerfest - 3,556 ; 



Von Buch. 
Von Buch. 

Everest. 



3,556 ; 
3,495; 



Kaaven, west of Langfjord. 



.3,121; 
3,105; 



KJEerringfjordfjeld, (great,) upon the island of Stjuno, 
at Rogersund 3,136 ; 

Nonskarfjeld, upon the island of Stjern6, in the district 

of Talvig : 3,551; 

Seiland, island in the Finmark 3,540 ; 

Storvandsfjeld, south of Storvand, (lake,) at Talvik... 

Vandtinden. (See Bonsjordlenden. ) 

Nordkap, upon Magerb, in the Finmark 1 ,009 ; 



Keilhau. The horn Gaatza- 
gaesa, and several others, 
reach over 4,000 feet ; Ot- 
terf jeld, Olmai Van-e, at the 
upper end of Lyngenfjord, 
reach to about 4,000 feet; 
Keilhau. 

mean of five measures; 
Lundh ; 1 845, ledke is cov- 
ered by eternal snow, 
mean of five measures made 
upon different days ; Klou- 
mann; 1847. 

zenith distances, by Klou- 
mann, from two points ; 
1846. 

Kloamann; 1847. . 
by zenith distances, from 
two points ; Kloumann ; 
1847. 

mean of three measures ; 
Lundt; 1845. 

Von Buch. 
Keilhau. 



Von Buch 



LAKES, AND THE SNOW-LINE. 



449 



LAKES. 



The length and breadth of the principal inland lakes of Norway, measurini 
over one Norwegian mile in length. 



Name and location of lakes, tl 



Mjosen, situated in ahout the 
centre of the sttft of Chris- 
tiauia, in the anit of Ager- 
shus ; the largest lake in 
Norway. 



Eosvandet, at Vessen, Helg- 
laud, in amt of Nordland. 

Eaudsfjord, at Land, in the 
district of Hadeland, amt of 
Christians. 



Famiindso, at Osterdal, in the 
amt of Hedemarken. 

Tjrifjord, at Eingerigo, in the 
amt of Buskerud. 

The chain of lakes atFredriks- 
hald, in the amt of Smaale- 
nene : height measured at 
Femioen. 

Store (great) Lceso, near the 
Swedish boundary, in the 
amt of Smaalchnenc. 

Tiudso, at Tiud, district of 
Thelmark, amt of Bratsberg. 



Otavand, or Vaagevand, at 
Gudbrandsdal, in the amt of 
Christians. 



Niservand, at Nisedal, Tele- 
mark, in the amt of Brats- 
berg. 

Kroderen, in the amt of Bus- 
kerud, district of Buskerud. 

Mjosvandet, at Tind, Thele- 
mark, in the amt of Buske- 
rud. 

29 s66 



Length in 
English 
miles. 


Breadth in 
English 
miles. 


54.08 


1.52 


12.00 


12.00 


38. 04 


2.28 


33.48 


0.56 


15.02 


6.84 


36.52 


1.52 


30.44 


2*. 00 


22. 84 


3.80 


22.84 


0.76 


21.28 


1.52 


21.28 


0.76 


18. 24 


3.04 



Height above the sea in English feet. 



425 feet, mean of five measiu'cs, four in 
July and the fifth on the 5th of August, 
by Hissinger; 426, mean of several 
measures in June, 1837, Keilhau; 415, 
mean of two measures, July and Au- 
gust, 1841, Keilhau and Suhrland ; 
444, mean of two measures in the lat- 
ter part of May, 1841; 422, mean of 
three measures made on the 6th, 21st, 
and 26th of July, 1843, Keilhau ; 408, 
Horby, June 30, 1848; 384, Hansten, 
by theodolite, August 15, 1847. 

1,378, mean of three measures, by Suhr- 
land, 1843. 

309, VonBuch; 491, Esmark; 341, Han- 
sten; 432, mean of four measures upon 
three different days, Keilhau, 1838; 
319, Carpelan; 508, measured at Eod- 
uas, the upper end of the lake, Keil- 
hau, 1845; 473, at Jonvold, Keilhau. 
1845. 

2,250, Hissinger; 2,188, mean of siy 
measures, Horby, 1848; 2,194, mean 
of twelve measures, Horby, 1854. 

193, Keilhau, 1838; 242, Mashmann ; 
226, Keilhau and Suhrland, 1842 ; 228, 
at Holsf jord, Nasser, 1852. 

226, Boeck, 1834. 



340, Keilhau and Boeck, 1834 ; 422, mean 
of two measures by theodolite, Hertz- 
berg, 1849. 

570, Esmark ; 630, Hansten ; 609, Jlash- 
mar ; 550, Smith ; 659, mean of several 
measures upon two days, Keilhau and 
Suhrland ; 667, mean of two measures, 
Najser, 1846, at high water ; 581, Nas- 
ser, 1853. 

1,163, Naumann; 1,126, Broch; 1,214, 
theodolite, by Hansten, mean of thirty- 
six measures, in July and August, 1844; 
1,208, mean of twenty-six measures in 
July and August, 1844, Andersen. 

787, mean of four measures, Keilhau and 
Suhrland, 1840; 873, mean of three 
measures upon diflercnt days, Nasser, 
1847; 758, by levelling, Sandborg. 

471, Keilhau, 1838; 441, mean of two 
measures, Keilhau and Suhrland, 1842 ; 
417, Wcrgeland, 1840. 

2,844, Smith; 2,899, Bassoe, 1846; .3,012, 
mean of three measures, Nasser, 1853. 



450 



STATISTICS RELATIVE TO NORWEGIAN MOUNTAINS, 



Length and hreadth of the principal lakes in Norway — Continued. 



Name and location of lakes. 



Snaasen-Vand, district of In- 
deroen, in the amt of North 
Drontheim. 

Nordsjo, in the lower Tele- 
mark, amt of Bratsberg. 



Byglandsfjord, at Raabygde- 

lag, amt of Nedenes. 
Storsjon, at Rendalen, in the 

amt of Hedemarken. 
Sselbusjo, in the district of 

Strind and S^elbu, amt of 

Seuth Drontheim. 
Fyrrisvand, at Moland, Tele- 
._ mark, amt of Bratsberg. 
Oieren, at Lower Romerike, 

amt of Smaalenene ; the 

junction of the river Nld and 

Glommen. 



Toke-vand, district of Bamle, 
amt of Bratsberg. 

Vinstervandene,atGudbrands- 
dal, Valders, amt of Hede- 
mark. 

Lemingen, at the Swedish 
boundary, in the district of 
Namdal, amt of North Dron- 
theim. 

Siredalsvan, at Lister, in the 
amt of Xister and Mandal. 

Osen, at Trysil, in the amt of 
Hedemark. 

Nams-vandene, at Namdal, in 
the amt of North Drontheim. 

Bygdin, in the district of Val- 
ders, amt of Christians. 

Herningsdal-vand, at Nord- 

fjord, in the amt of North 

Bergenhus. 
Sulidals-vand, or Soledals- 

vand, at Ryfylke, in the amt 

of Stavanger. 

Totak-vand, at Vinje, Tele- 
mark, amt of Bratsberg. 

Farres-vand, in the district oi 
Laurvig, amt of Jarlsberg 
and Laurvig. 

Lnndevand, district of Lister, 
amt of Lister and Mandal. 

Bandags-vand, at Laurdal, dis- 
trict of Thelemarken, amt of 
Bratsberg. 

Spirilenso, at Aadalen, district 
of Ringerige, amt of Buskerud 



■5 '^ a2 
M 



18.24 

18.24 

18.24 

18.24 
16. 72 

15.02 
15.02 



15.02 
15. 02 

13.68 



13.68 
13.68 

12. 
12. 

12. 

12. 

12. 



.d.2 . 

-tj I — f in 



Height above the sea in English feet. 



2.28 
1.52 

1.12 

.76 

2.28 

3.04 
3.04 



1.52 



1.52 



3.04 



15.02 


.76 


14.44 


1.52 


13.68 


3.04 


13.68 


1.52 



1.52 
1.52 

3.80 
1.52 

1.12 
1.12 

.76 



66, Keilhau, 1831. 



77. This lake was formerly higher, but 
was lowered to the present stand by an 
earthquake. Carpelan ; from 62 to 72, 
Keilhau; 128, Nseser, 1844. 

661, mean of two measures, Nscser, 1849. 

843, mean of four measures, upon two 

days, Horby, 1848, 
516, Naiimann. 



853, Sandborg, by levelling. 

358, Boeck, 1834; 348, Keilhau, 1834. 
These measures were made at some- 
what high-water stand ; the high-water 
mark is from 24 to 28 feet (Norw.) 
above low water. In the year 1789, 
this lake rose 34 feet above high-water 
mark. 

120, Nffiser, 1847. 

3,276, Broch. This measure, was made 
on the ease side of the middle lake, at 
a fishing hut there. 

1,332, Keilhau, 1831. 



124, mean of two measures, Keilhau, 

1839 ; at common stage of water. 
1,473, Keilhau, 1838. 

1,343, Keilhau, 1843; measured at the 

west lake. 
3,623, Keilhau and Boeck ; 3,623, Broch ; 

3,456, mean of several measures, 

Wergeland, 1843. 
159, by levelling, Kragh. 

143, Naumann; 267, Falkenberg, 1853; 
269, mean of two measures, (under very 
unfavorable circumstances, )Naumann, 
1853. 

2,234 Maschmann. 

Height not measured, or cannot be ascer- 
tained. 

Height not measured. 

219, mean of several measures, Masch- 
mann; 232, Bassoe, 1847. 

535, Keilhau. 



LAKES, AXD THE SNOW-LIKE. 451 

hength and hrcadth of the principal lalces in Norway — Continued. 





r. 


.9 - 




Name and location of lakes. 


-2 -? » 




Height above the sea in English feet. 




gH2 


.5 3 g 






^ 


« 




Stor-?jon, at Odalen, in the amt 


11.40 


5. 32 


926, Esmark ; 843, mean of four measmes 


of Hedemarken. 






made upon two days; Horby, 1848. 


Slidiefjoid, at Valders, in the 


11.40 


0.76 


1,255, Naumaun; 1,194, Keilhau, 1845. 


amt of Kiistian. 








Norefjovd aud Tlovand, at Nu- 


J 0.64 


1.52 


904, Naumann, measured at Norefjord. 


medal, amt of Buskerud. 








Engerso, at Trysll, iu the amt 


10.04 


0.76 


1,575, mean of three measures; Keilhau, 


of Hedemarken. 






1838. 


Tunhovdfjord, at Numedal, 


y.88 


• 1.52 


2,316, Wergeland, 1842. 


amt of Buskerud. 








Lajsso vaud, at Gudbrandsdal, 


U.88 


0.76 


1,714, Naumann. 


amt of Kristian. 






' 


Isterso, at Odalen, amt of He- 


9.12 


2.28 


Height not ascertained. 


demarken. 








E kern so, at Fiskum, amt of 


9. Vi 


1.52 


65, Nasser, 1852. 


Buskerud. 








Hurdalso, at the upper Rome- 


9.12 


1.52 


564, Keilhau, 1837; 594, Keilhau and 


rige, amt of Acekerslia'S. 






Suhrland, 1841. 


Vegaardvaudet, at Gjerrestad, 


9.12 


1.52 


541, mean of three measures, Suhrland 


amt of Nedenses. 






andEllesen, 1840; 624, Nseser, 1849. 


Hitterdals-vand,atThelemarJv- 


9. 12 


1.12 


118, Naeser, 1846. 


eu, amt of Bratsberg. 








Gjeudiu, at Yaage, district of 


9.12 


0.76 


3,248, mean of six measures, "Wergeland, 


Gudbrandsdal, amt of Kris- 






1841; 3,274, mean of five measures 


tian. 






upon ditlerent days, Wergeland, 1843. 


The Little Mjosen, or Vangs 


9.12 


0.76 


1,535, Hansten; 1,542, Naumann; 1,565, 


Mjoseu, at Valders, amt of 






result of several measures, Wergeland ; 


Kristian. 






1,532, mean of two measures upon dif- 
ferent days, Keilhau, 1845. 


Gjerrcstads-vand, at Nedenses, 


9.12 


0.76 


No height given. 


amt of Nedeua^s. 








Straudsfjord, at Hallingdal, 


9.12 


0.76 


1,529, Naumaun. 


amt of Buskerud. 








Tunsoen, at Numedal, amt of 


8.36 


4.56 


Height not given. 


North Drontheim. 








Tj'cu, mountain lake, at File- 


7.6. 


3.04 


3,623, vol. 2 of Budstikken, page 388; 


fjeld, inner sogn, amt of 






about of same height as Lake Bygdin. 


North Bergeuhus. 








Fasrcnso, at Stordal, amt of 


7.6 


3.04 


Height not given. 


North Drontheim. 








Opstrj'u, at Nordfjord, amt of 


7.6 


1.32 


82, by levelling, Krag. 


North Bergenhus. 








Solenso, or iSorulenso, North 


7.6 


1.52 


No height given. 


Osterdal, amt of Hedemark. 








Siljords-vand, at the Parish of 


7.6 


0.76 


Height not given. 


yiljord, amt of Bratsberg. 








Kalhovd-vaud, on the lower 


7.6 


0.76 


3,500, Keilhau and Suhrland, 1842. 


Maar-vand, at Tind, Thele- 








marken, amt of Bratsberg. 








Feragen, oast of Roraas, amt 


7. 


1.52 


2,271, Hissinger. 


of South Drontheim. 








Vansjo, near and east of Moss, 


6. OS 


6.02 


62, Boeck and Keilhau, 1834. 


amt of Smaalehnene. 








Eina-vand, upon the Toten, 


6.08 


1.12 


1,252, Esmark; 1,338, Suhrland, 1841. 


amt of Kristian. 








Aursund-s6, or Aursuen-s6, at 


6.08 


0.76 


2,252, Naumann ; 2.408, Hesinger, mean 


Roraas, amt of South Dron- 






of six measures ; 2,262, Horby, mean 


theim. 






of six measures 



^52 STATISTICS RELATIVE TO NORWEGIAN MOUNTAINS, 

LengtJi and breadth of the ])rincipal lakes in Norway — Continued. 





.a^ 


•s^ 






Name and location of lakes. 


Length 

Engli 
miles. 


Breadth 

Englis 
miles. 


Height above the sea in 


English feet. 


Sjakervand, or Skjakervand, 


6.08 


0.76 


1,541, Schult. 




west of the Skjakerfjeld, 










amt of North Drontheim. 










Nordmandslaagen-sjo,the head 


7.16 


0.76 


4,153, Keilhau, 1845. 




waters of Logenelv, upon 










the mountain plateau of Har- 










danger, Hardanger, amt of 










South Bergenhus. 











THE SNOW-LINE. 

Altitude of the snow-line above the level of the sea. 

Upon the mountains south of Ottevand, in Gudbrands- 

dal, in about 62° latitude 4,825 feet; Brock. 

Upon the Dovre mountains in 61° of latitude 5,353 ; Naumann. 

At Gjardesdal, Mauranger, in the district of Hardanger, 

amt of South Bergenhus, in latitude 60° 3,575; Sese, 1859. 

At Lodalskaupe, at Nordf jord, in the amt of North Ber- 
genhus, in latitude 62° 5,542 ; Yon Buch ; 5,414 ; Bohr. 

In the mountains about Storhougen, between Lyster and 
lustedal. Inner Sogn, amt of North Bergenhus, in lati- 
tude 61° _ 5,353; Keilhau. 

In the mountain range between lolster, at Sondfjord and 
Invigsf jord, at Nordfjord, amt of North Bergenhus, 
latitude 61° 4,117; Naumann. 

Upon the west side of the island of Seiland, amt of Fin- 
mark, latitude 70° 5' 2,965; Keilhau. 

The mean height of the snow-line upon the island of Sei- 
land, latitude 70° 5' 3,088; Keilhau. 



The height of the snow-line as established by Professor Leopold von Buck. 

Commencing under latitude 60° 00', at 5,661 feet over, the sea. 
Commencing under latitude 61° 00', at 5,353 feet over the sea. 
Commencing under latitude 62° 30', at 5,012 feet over the sea. 
Commencing under latitude 63° 30', at 4,632 feet over the sea. 
Commencing under latitude 67° 00', at 3,705 feet over the sea. 
Commencing under latitude 70° 00', at 3,397 feet over the sea. 
Commencing under latitude 71° 00', at North Cape, 2,265 feet over the sea. 



Explanation of terms and names of mountains. 

Aas, common name of a lower mountain-back or ridge, often covered with timber. This 

term is rarely used in the north of Norway. 
Berg, bjerg, mountain ; the former more common. 
Brat, a very steep mountain. This term is only used in the south of Norway. Sometimes 

it means a high moirntain, seen some distance at sea ; mostly used by seamen and pilots. 

In the north the word roe denotes the same. 
Bra, bre, fond, mountains covered by eternal snow or ice. Brte mostly means ice-covered, 

such as Josteretatsbrseen. Fond always means snow-covered. Folgefond. 
Fjeld, mountain. Common term all through the country. 
Fond, see Brae. 



LAKES, AND THE SNOW-LINE. 453 

Gust, light wind. Mountains are called so probably because the wind generally blows from 
the mountain. Yonsjof^usteu. 

Haagn, a hip^h but not couc-shapod mountain. Elgaahaao-na. 

Hammer a steep, precipitous, and sometimes projecting mountain. This term is common 

. throughout the country. Kampenhammerne. 

Hat, hclte, hat, or cap-formed shaped mountain, generally snow-covered Common throu"-h- 
out the country, but mostly from Dover northward. Skjaekerhatten, Nehatteu, Sneh«!tt?n 
Pighastten. ' 

Haug, //oK«',niostlyinthe south of Norway, signifying rounded, dome, or haystack-shaped 
mouutam. Jemdalshougen. ^ 

Hci, held mountain plateau. This term is common all through the country. Hogeheia 

Hum, common name of liorn or alp-formed peaks. Skogshorn, Remsdalshorn. 

Homl, hovde, fioved. These terms are mostly used south of Dover, signifying iar"-e proiect- 
iug mountains. Synhovd, Reksjbhovd. » ' i j 

Hii, hoe, hog hogd, hoi, hOide, signifying large dome-formed mountains, sometimes coue- 
tormed. btorhoi, Humdalshoc. 

J6fcel,juke(, common in the Avhole country, signfying glacier, or mountain covered with 
ice. Hallingjokelen, Jukeleggen. 

Kaiipe, common name of mountain covered with eternal snow. Lodalskaupe. 

Kamp, common name southof Dover of dome-formed, often isolated mountain without peak. 
Askamoen, Svartekampen. 

Kirke. This term is most common in the south of Norway, signifying high, precipitous, and 
projecting mountains. This name is also supposed to have been derived from le"-en"d.s of 
ciiurches which before the reformation are said to have existed in the hi^-h mountains in 
the amt of Kristian. Synslaukjerken, Svarlhulkjerken. ° 

Kjarring, mountain sometimes like the shape of an old woman in a sitting posture. Ve- 
huskja?rriuga. 

Kjol, very common name of a mountain ridge dividing valleys. Eoctingsjolers. 

Klemp, a round dome-formed mountain. Bredklenklempen. This term is very seldom used. 

hep, kleppe, large and wide, but not alp-formed mountain. Blaahaaklcp, Lennekleppen. 

Klct, common name, particularly at Osterdal, signifying high, precipitous mountain. So- 
lenkletten, Blaakaakletten. 

Khib, Mump. Klub is mostly used in the names of mountains situated upon the coast, f:ig- 
nifyuig cone-formed, but in the interior more rounding or dome-formed mountains. Kiol- 
hougklubbeu, Staudaisklumpen, Kvitkjfemklubben. 

Knip, knippe, common in the stift of Drontheim, signifying mountain appearing to be in 
many parts, or a bunch or cluster of mountain horns very close together. Gronsendknip- 
pen, Nvsajlerknippen. 

Kolle, rounded or dome- formed mountain. Common term in all parts of the country. 

A^«/e, only used in the south of Norway. A round or dome-formed mountain. 

Kuv, in the interior signifying a mountain of considerable height, rising above others in the 
vicinity and not alp-ibrmed ; upon the coast, a round rock. Storkuven. 

Kciting, light-colored high mountains, or sometimes when covered with snow. Gjonekvi- 
tingen, Kvitingen, Kvitingskjolen. 

Nnas nase vos, steep, precipitous, but not pike-formed mountain. Nybunaaset, Maarsnaas, 
Hermansuaasen. 

Nut, nad, kiiat, knap, common name of a flat, rounding mountain. Solenatten, Ilulediur- 
natten. '' 

Nut, high, but not alp-formed mountain. This name does not appear in the south of Norway. 
Baasnuten, Borgundnuteu. 

Pig, high and alp-formed mountain. Elgupiggen, Storhopiggen, Guslepiggen. 

Skaft, high mountain with extended base\ which, when seen from the side, tTppears as a very 
gradual descent. Vegelskaflet. 

Skag, a term not always of the same signification. In the south it means a steep and high- 
rising mountain ; in the north a mountain wall. Skaget. On the north coast it often de- 
notes a nearly perpendicular mountain wall. Lappeskagen. Also, a low, naked, ex- 
tended cape. Hrerueskagen. 

Skar, Skard, common in the whole country, signifying a mountain in which appears to be 
a rift, or to be cloven, notched, or a narrow crevice. Dyrskardet, Gaakelskardet, Brud- 
skardet, Skarifjeldene, Sa>lerskardet. 

Skarv, a high, naked mountain, often covered with loose masses of rock, common in the 
southern amts of Norway. Hallingskarveu, Soskarven, Storskarven. 

Skavl, mountain with deep covering of snow. Vosseskavlen, Blaaskavleu. 

Skolt, pande, name of broad, steep-iising mountains with rounded top. 

Stol, mountain meadow. Haastolen. 

StOt, a steep mountain with flat top. Havsterstoten. This term only appears near the 
Swedish boundary, and is believed to have been derived from the word Stotte, (mark.) 
from the presumption that at some former times there have been boundary marks upon 
these mountains. 



454 STATISTICS RELATIVE TO NORWEGIAN MOUNTAINS* 

Tind, This term is common over the whole country, signifying they upon larger mountain 
masses rising, cone-formed tops, alps, pealis. Naulgaardstindeu, Suletind, Tessungtinden, 
Prsestctind. 

Top, Tip, tup, same signification as tind. 

Varde. This term is often used in the south part of Norway, and denotes high mountain 
which might be seen a great distance at sea. Degervarde. 

Vol is supposed to have the same meaning as Varde, but according to Horby (New Magazine 
of Natural Science) it appears that this term, at least in some parts of the country, denotes 
a gradual ascending mountain, without having any mark or varde upon its summit. The 
term is common, particularly in the eastern portion of the country, Kvitvola, Bustvola, 
Finvola. 



Reference to reliable publications and persons. 

Bassoe, C, lieutenant colonel of artillery: Measures of Heights by Barometer in the Amts 
of Buskerud and Bratsberg in 1846. 

Measures of Heights by Barometer in the Amt of Bratsberg, 1847. 

Measures of Heights by Barometer in the Amts of Bratsberg and Nedenses, 1848. 

Boeck, C, professor, (Boeck & Keilhau:) Travels in the Amt of Smaaleneue, 1834, 

Bohr, G. : Of the Glaciers of the Josterdal. Journal called Blandinger, volume 2. 

Broch, Th., general of engineers : Observations and Height-measures, &c. Magazine for 
Natural Science, volume 2. 

Observations and Height-measures. New Magazine of Natural Science, volume 1. 

Buck, Leopold Von: Travel from Christiania to Bergen, Topographical and Statistical 
Collections, volume 1. 

Carpelan, W. M., colonel: A Visit to the Mountain Hut, 1823. Published in Magazine of 
Natural Science, 2d an., volume 1. 

Esmark, professor : Travels to Drontheim. Published Christiania, 1829. 

Observations upon a Journey to Gausta Mountains. Topographical and Statistical 
Collections, volume 1. 

Everest, Rob. : A Journey through Norway and Sweden. Published London, 1S20. 

Falkenberg, lieutenant colonel : Height-measures by Barometer in the years 1852, 1853, 
and 1855, in the Amts of Stavanger and South Bergenhus. Manuscript. Published by 
government, 1860, 

Pearnley, C, professor: Report of a Geographical Journey in Gudbransdal, 1841, Pub- 
lished 1845. 

Hansteen, Chr., professor: Geographical Results of some points in the vicinity of Christiania. 
Magazine of Natural Science, 1824, volume 1, 

Observations upon a Journey to Bergen, 1821. Budstikken, volume 3. 

Heiberg, liei;tenant of artillery: Height-measures in the Amt of South Drontheim, 1850. 
Published by government, 1861. 

Hertzberg, H. R., capitaine: Height-measures by Barometer iipon the Boundary Line be- 
tween Sweden and Norway, 1841), volume 2. 

Hisinger, Wm, : Notes of Physical and Geographical Observatious. Published at Uppsala, 

I84y. 

Height-measures (tables) in Sweden and Norway. Stockholm, 1829. 
Holmboe, B., professor: Height-measures by Barometer on a Journey to Bergen, 1829. 

Manuscript not published. 
Horby, J. S. : Notes of a Geo_graphical Journey in the District of Osterdalen, 1848. 

Height-measures of portion of the Swedish Boundary Line. Published in New Mag- 
azine of Natural Science, volume 8, 1845 ; volume 2, 1840. 
Keilhau, B. M., professor : Journev in the East and West Finmark. Published in Christiania, 
1831. 

Journey in the Amt of North Drontheim. Magazine of Natural Science, volume 1, 

2d series. 
Geographical Observations in Osterdalen. New Magazine of Natural Science, vol- 
ume 2. 
Joiirney in the Amts of Lister and MandaL New Magazine of Natural Science, 

volume 2. 
Journey to the East part of the Stift of Christiansand, 1840. New Magazine of 

Natural Science, volume 3. 
Geological Observations and Height-measurements on a Journey in the Districts of 
Valders, Hadingdal, and Sogn, J 845. Measurements of Heights in the years 1841, 
1842, and 1843. Manuscript partially published 1845. 
Klouman, F., colonel of the staff: Height-measures by Barometer and Zenith Distances at 

the Survey of the Finmark in the years 1846 and 1847. 
Kraft, J., judge: Topographical and Statistical Description of Norway, 6 volumes, published 
at Christiania, 1820-1835, 



LAKES, AND THE SNOW-LINE. 455 

Krugh, H., lieutenant of artillery: Height-measures in the Amts of South and North Ber- 

geuhus and the Eomsdal. Manuscript. 
Lessing, C. F. : Reise durch Norvvegeu and die Lofoden, durch Lappland und Sweden 

Published at Berlin, 1841. 
Maschmaun, P. J., professor: Height-measurements by Barometer; Observations in tlie 

Finmark, 18:^2. 
Naumann, C. F., professor: Beitnige zur Kenntniss Norwegens, 2 Bind, Leipzig, 18*24 . 
Nfeser, F. P., colonel: Height-measures in the Amts of Buskerud and Bratsberg^in the years 

1846 and 1847. "^ 

Height-measures in the Amt of Christiansand, 1849. 
Sandborg, C, civil engineer: Collection of Heights, by Levelling of the Old Highway from 

the Ferry-station of Spjotsod to Nesservaud. In manuscript, only partially published. 
Schiotb, Anton: Geographical Description of the Kingdom of Norway. Published at 

Christiania, 1849. 
Sexe, professor: Height-measures in the Amt of South Bergenhus, 1859. 
Smith, Chr., professor: Observations on a Journey in the Mountains of Norway, 1812. 

Topographical Collections, 2 volumes. 
Suhrland, professor : Height-measures upon a Journey to Drontheim and Nordland in the 

years 1841 anl 1843. 
Suhrland and Ellisen: Height-measures in.l840. Published in New Magazine of Natural 

Science, volume 3. 
Vibe, A., major of engineers : Measurements of Heights in Norway. Christiania, 1860. 
Wahlenberg, doctor of theology : Height-measures in Scandinavia. 
Wergeland, R. St., major general, secretary of war: Height-measures by Barometer in the 

Amts of 13ergenhus, Aguerus, Buskerud, and Christians, 1840, 1841, and 1842. 

Measurements of Heights by Barometer in the Mountains of the Districts of Halling- 
dal and Gudbrandsdal, 1843 and 1845. Published by government. 



CONTENTS. 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

Pnge. 

Letter of the Secretary to Conj^ress 3 

Letter of Chancellor and Secretary, submitting Report of 1866 4 

Officers and Regents of the Smithsonian Institution 5 

Members ex officio and honorary members of the Institution G 

Programme of Organization 7 

Report of the Secretary, Prof. Henry, for 1866 13 

Condition of the funds 13 

Transfer of the Library to Congress ]4 

National Library ^ 15 

General policy of the Institution 15 

National Museum 16 

Reconstruction of the building 17 

Account of the publications 18 

Rules of distributio n of publications 21 

Reports of the Institution 22 

Meteorology 23 

Literary and scientific international exchanges 25 

Explorations and collections 26 

Library 28 

Correspondence 30 

Investigations 31 

Lectures 31 

Account of Whittlesey's paper on Glacial Drift 32 

Report of the Assistant Secretary for 1866 37 

Statistics of literary and scientific exchanges 37 

Additions to the collections 44 

Work done in the museum and collections 44 

Distribution of specimens 45 

Donations to the museum 46 

List of Meteorological stations and observers 51 

Meteorological Material received during 1866 60 

Report of the Executive Committee 65 

Report of the Building Committee 69 

Journal of the Proceedings of the Board of Regents 72 

Sketch of the life and services of William W. Seaton 80 

GENERAL APPENDIX. 

Memoir of Magendie, by M. Flourens, Secretary of the French Academy of Sciences . . 91 

On the Senses 127 

Sense of taste 127 

Sense of hearing 148 

Sense of light 173 

Lecture on the Results of Spectrum Analysis applied to the Heavenly Bodies, by Wm. 

Huggins, F. R. S., &c 195 



458 CONTENTS. 

Page. 

On the External Appearance of the Sun's Disk 209 

On Accidental or Subjective Colors : Persistence of Images, Contrast, Irradiation, Dal- 
tonism, &c. : by theAbb6 Moigno.^ 211 

The Figures of Equilibrium of a Liquid Mass withdrawn from the Action of Gravity, 

by J. Plateau - 255 

Report on the Transactions of the Society of Physics and Natural History of Geneva, 

from July, 1865, to June, 1866, by Dr. Gasse 291 

Notes on the Tinneh or Chepewyan Indians of British and Russian America. 1. The 
Eastern Tinneh, by Bernard R. Ross, esq. 2. The Loucheux Indians, by William 
L. Hardisty. 3. The Kutchin Tribes, by Strachan Jones, esq.: communicated by 

George Gibbs 303 

The American Migration, by Frederick Von Hellwald 328 

Indian Pottery, by Charles Raw 346 

Artificial Shell Deposits of the United States, by D. G. Brinton, M. D - 356 

Sketch of Ancient Earth-works, by I. Dille 359 

Pile-work Antiquities of Olmutz 363 

The Antiquities on the Banks of the Mississippi River and Lake Pepin, by Dr. L. C. 

Estes 366 

A Physical Atlas of North America, a communication from George Gibbs, esq 368 

On Ethnological Research, a communication from Dr. E. H. Davis, of New York.. . 370 
International Archaeological Congress, organized by the Archseological Academy of 

Belgium, in concert with the French Society of Archseology : Antwerp, 1866 .... 374 

On Vitality, by Rev. H. H. Higgins, with notes by Prof. Henry 379 

Instructions for collecting Land and Fresh-water Shells, by Dr. Jas. Lewis 389 

On the collection of specimens of Myriapodg, Phalangidse, &c., by Dr. Henry C. 

Wood, jr 395 

Plan of a research upon the Atmosphere, by Prof. C. M. Wetherill 396 

An account of the Cryolite of Greenland, communicated by Messrs. Lewis & Sons. - 398 
Extracts from the Meteorological correspondence of the Institution, with remarks by 

the Secretary, Prof. Joseph Henry • 402 

Horary variations of the Barometer, by Marshall Vaillant, with notes by Prof. Henry. 413 

On the formation of Ice at the Bottom of Water, by M. Englehardt 425 

The Earthquake in Eastern Mexico, of the second of January, 1866, by Dr. Charles 
Sartorius, of Mirador, near Huatasco, district of Cordova, State of Vera Cruz, 

Mexico 432 

Statistics relative to Norwegian Mountains, Lakes, and the Snow* line 435 



INDEX. 



Page. 

Accounts. Report of Special Committee on G7, 78 

Acknowledgments to transportation companies 25 

to societies and individuals 27 

to exchange agents 26 

to donors to library 28 

to donors to museum ^ 46 

Aeronautics. Experiments on 292 

Agassiz, Prof. L. Acts of, as regent 72, 73, 74, 75, 76 

Articles referred to 31 

On glacial drift 32 

Agents of the Institution 26 

Agriculture. Department of: Monthly Bulletin 25 

Museum of ]7 

Alexander, C. A. Translations by 23,91,127,142,173,209,211, 

255, 291, 328, 363, 374, 413, 425, 432 

Allen, Mr. Explorations by 27 

Allen, Dr. H. On bats 19 

Specimens referred to 28 

American Migration, by F. Von Hellwald 328 

Anorthoscope. Plateau's 216 

Anthropology. Statistics relative to : 371 

Antiquities of Lake Pepi.u 366 

Mississippi river 366 

Olmutz 363 

United States 346,356,359 

Antwerp Alrchajological Congress 374 

Appendix to the Report of the Secretary 89 

Arago's exppriments on colors 238 

Archaeological Congress, Antwerp. Programme of 374 

Archaeology 303, 328, 346, 356, 359, 363, 366, 368, 370, 374 

Arctic meteorology 19 

Army museum .... 17 

Astor, William B. Acts, of, as regent 72 

Astronomy. Dawes's researches 209 

Physical, Huggins's researches 195 

Atmosphere. Wetherill's plan of research on 396 

Aurora in Russian America 411 

Observation of 405 

Bache, Prof. Alex. D. Action of Board of Regents relative to death of 76 

Bailey, S. A. Specimens referred to 28 

Baird, Piof. S. F. Account of explorations 28 

Report for 1866 37 

Re^^ew of American birds 19 

Bannister, H. M. Explorations by 26 

Barometer. Horary variation of, by M. Vaillant 413 

Observations of maximum and minimum 408 



460 INDEX. 

Page. 

Bell, Sir Charles. Eesearches on nervous system 1]8 

Berendt, Dr. H. Explorations by.- 27 

Bibliography of Norwegian physical geography , 454 

Binney. Land and fresh-water shells ,. 39 

Birds. Review of J 19 

Bischoff, Ferd. Explorations by 26 

Bland, Thomas. Aid to explorations :. 27 

Specimens referredto , 28 

Bogota. Explorations in 27 

Boissier on new plants 297 

Bossange, Gustave, agent for exchanges 26, 38 

Botany. Dr. Gosse's report on 296 

Botteri, M. Explorations by 27 

Brass, W. Explorations by 26 

Brewer, Dr. T. M. Specimens referred to 28 

Brewster's experiments on colors 219, 222, 232, 240, 244 

Brinton, D. G. Artificial shell deposits of United States 3.56 

British America. Explorations in 26 

Notes on Indians of 303 

Brunswick, Maine. Meteorology of 19 

Brush, Prof. G. J. Articles referred to 31 

Bryant, Dr. Henry. Explorations by 27 

Aid to explorations 27 

Action of regents relative to death of 79 

Buenos Ayres. Explorations in 27 

Building committee report 69 

Reconstruction of 17 

Bulkley, Col. C. L. Explorations by 26 

Burton, A. A. Explorations by , ^ 27 

Butcher, Dr. H. B. Explorations by •. .' 27 

Canfield, Dr. C. A. Explorations by 27 

Carmiol, Julian. Explorations by 27 

Carnahan, Dr. Account of effect of lightning 408 

Carpenter, P. P. Specimens referred to 28 

Cassin, John. Specimens referred to '28 

Caswell, A. Meteorological observations 24 

Catalogue of publications of societies in library of Smithsonian Institutution 19 

Cellerier's researches on gravity 292 

Centipedes. On collecting 395 

Chaix on volcanic rocks 296 

Chase, Chief Justice. Acts of, as regent 4, 13, 72, 73, 74, 75, 76 

Chemistry. Dr. Gosse's report on 294 

Chepewyan Indians. Notes on 303 

Chevreul's experiments on colors 221,230 

Chicago Academy of Sciences. Aid to explorations - 27 

China. Geological researches in. 18 

Chocaman. Destruction of church in, by earthquake --- 433 

Chronoscopes. Wheatstone's -^ 214 

Claperede. OnRotifeis 298 

Cleaveland, Prof. Parker. Meteorological observations 1 9, 24, 25 

Clen, J. T. Explorations by 27 

Clouds. Formation of 406 

over Gulf Stream 410 



INDEX. 461 

Page. 

Cluss, Adolf. Services as architect 18, 70 

Coleopteia. List of 19, 20 

New species of 19, 20 

Collaborators of the Institution 31 

Collections of natural history. Account of 2G 

Additions to 44, 4G 

Colors. Accidental or subjective, by Abbe Moigno 211 

Congress. Act of, authorizing increase of Smithson fund 77 

Legislation Ijy, relative to Institution 13, 74, 77 

Library of, condition of. 13, 15 

Memorial to, from Board of Regents 74 

Order to print extra copies of annual report 2 

Connolly, Henry. Explorations by 2G 

Conrad, T. A. Check list of fossils 19, 20 

Contributions to knowledge. Account of IS 

Contributors to Berendt's exploration 27 

Cooper, Juan. Explorations by 27 

Cope, Prof. E. D. Specimens referred to 28 

Corbiculadaj. Prime's monograph of 19 

Correspondence. Account of 30 

Cones, Dr. Elliot. Explorations by 27 

Costa Rica. Explorations in 27 

Craig, Dr. B. F. Articles referred to 31 

Ciyolite of Greenland. Account of 393 

Dall, W. H. Explorations by 26, 27 

Daltonism, or imperfections in perception of colors 246 

Dana, Prof. J. D, Articles referred to 31 

Davis, Admiral C. H. Articles referred to 31 

Davis, Hon. Ganet. Acts of, as regent 72, 73 

Davis, Dr. E. H. On ethnological research 370 

Davison, Lieutenant. Explorations by 26 

Dawes. On external appearance of sun 209 

Deaths of meteorological observers 59 

De Beust, ^Yilliam. Compensation to, for loss by fire 74 

De Caudoire. On Piperaceas 297 

On Begonia 298 

De Lacerda, A. Exploration by 27 

Delafield, General Richard. Acts of, as regent 72, 73, 74, 75, 76, 77, 78 

Report of, executive committee 65 

Report of, building committee 69 

Report of, committee on accounts 78 

Services in regard to building 18 

Delafontaine. On y ttria, terbine, and erbine 295 

De la Rive. On tenestrial electric currents 293 

De Loriol. On Jui'assic deposits 295 

Deposits of shells. Account of artificial 356 

De Saussure. On Scolia 299 

Dew on Lake Erie in summer 406 

Dille, Israel. Sketch of ancient earthworks in United States 359 

Distribution of publications. Rules for 2 

of specimens 28, 45 

Donations to the library during 1866 28 

Donors to the museum. List of 46 



462 INDEX. 



Dor, Dr. On sinking of lakes 294 

Dow, Captain J. M. Explorations by '. 27 

Draper. Silvered glass telescope 19' 

Drift, Glacial. Whittlesey on 32 

Dreutzer, O. E. Statistics of Norwegian mountains by 435 

Dresden. Royal library of, present from 29 

Dufour. On levelling in Switzerland 292 

On electric currents , 293 

Earthquake in eastern Mexico, January 2, 1866 432 

Earths. New, yttria, terbine, and erbine 295 

Earthworks, ancient. Account of, by J. Dille 359 

Edwards, W. H. Specimens referred to 28 

Egleston, Prof. T. Specimens referred to 2& 

Electrical apparatus 291 

Electric phenomena. Account of, by Prof. Henry 408 

in Red "VVing, Minnesota 408 

Elliot, D. G. Specimens referred to 28 

Engelhardt, M. On formation of ice at the bottom of water 425 

Equilibrium of a liquid mass, by Plateau 255 

Espy, Prof. J. P. On horary variations of barometer 423 

Theory of storms 406, 410 

Estes, Dr. L. C. Antiquities of Mississippi river and Lake Pepin 366 

Ethnology 303, 328, 346, 356, 359, 363, 366, 368, 370, 374 

Exchanges. Literary and scientific 25, 37 

Expenditures and receipts of the Institution 65 

Explorations and explorers. Account of 26 

Executive committee. Duties of 78 

Report of 65, 77 

Evaporation from salt and fresh water 402 

from Lake Michigan ' 406 

Eye. Researches relative to the 173, 211 

Faraday's experiments on colors 216 

Farnsworth, Hon. J. F. Acts of, as regent 74, 76 

Fatio. On use of cavities of air in bones of birds 293 

On colors of feathers of birds 299 

Favre. On geological map 295 

On meteorology 294 

Fechner's experiments on colors - 229 

Fessenden, Hon. W. P. Acts of, as regent 76 

Films. Plateau's researches on 255 

Finances of the Institution 13, 65 

Fire at the Institution. Results of 13 

Fisher, Dr. Explorations by .- 26 

Fisher, Dr. G. J. Donation of books from 29 

Flett, James. Explorations by 26 

Flint, Dr. Earl. Explorations by - 27 

Flourens, M. Memoir of Magendie 91 

Flugel, Dr. Felix. Agent for exchanges 26, 38 

Fog on Lake Michigan 406 

Force, Peter. Library of, purchased by government 15 

Force, W. Q. Meteorological services by 25 

Fossils. List of - 19, 20 

Foster, Hon. L. F. S. Acts of, as regent 74 

Frosts on Lake Erie 407 



INDEX. 463 

Page. 

Gales, Joseph. Connection with Mr. Scatou 83 

Garfield, Hon. J. A. Acts of, as regent 72, 73, 74, 75, 7G, 78 

Gaudet, C. P. Explorations by 26 

Gantier. On sinkinp^ of lakes 294 

On Swiss meteorology 294 

Geneva Society of Physics and Natural History, Transactions 291 

Geography. Statistics of Norway 435 

Geological researches in China and Japan , 18 

Geology. Dr. Gosse's report on 295 

Gibbs, George. Articles referred to 31 

Notes on Tinuch Indians of British and Russian America 303 

Physical atlas of North America 368 

Glass. Cause of breaking of, tubes 404 

Gosse, Dr. Report of Geneva Society 291 

Gravity. Researches on, by Plateau 255 

Gray, Dr. Asa. Articles referred to 31 

Grayson, A. J. Explorations by 27 

Green, James. Maker of meteorological instruments 24 

Guatemala. Explorations in 27 

Gunn, Donald. Explorations by 26 

Hague, Henry. Explorations by 27 

Haines, W. A. Aid to explorations 27 

Hardisty, W. L. Explorations by 26 

Notes on Tinneh Indians 311 

Harvestmen. On collecting 395 

Hayes, Dr. Isaac I. Arctic explorations 19 

Hearing. Sense of 142 

Heer. On antiquities of Olmutz 364 

Hellwald, Frederick. On the American migration 323 

Henry, Prof. J. Account of zootrope 217 

On aurora borealis 405,412 

On cause of breaking of glass tubes 405 

On discovery of scientific facts and principles 408 

On dew and frost on Lake Erie 406, 407 

On Dr. Wetherill's researches on atmosphere 396, 397 

On electrical phenomena 408 

On evaporation 403 

Experiments on colors 220 

Explanation of vapor spouts, dust columns, &c 410 

Explanation of water spouts 410 

On formation of clouds 406 

On horary variations of barometer 423 

Investigations by 31 

On meteorological phenomena 402,411,412 

On meteorology of Russian America 411 

Meetings of board 72, 73, 74, 75, 76, 77 

On origin of man 344 

On temperature 412 

On thunder-storms - 412 

Report for 1 866 13 

Researches on soap bubbles 259 

Views relative to Peabody Institute 31 

On vitality 386,387 

Oa winds 403,404,406,407,412 



464 INDEX. 



Higgins, Rev. H. H. Eesearches on vitality 379 . 

Hildreth, Dr. S. P. Meteorological observations 24, 25 

History of America , 229 

History. Programme of queries relative to - 376 

Honduras. Explorations in 27 

Horn, Dr. G. H. Specimens submitted to 28 

Hudson, W. H. Exploration by 27 

Huggins, "VVm. Lecture on spectrum analysis 195 

Ice. Formation of at the bottom of water ■ 425 

Indian Pottery. By Chas. Ran 346 

Indians. Notes on Tinneh or Chepewyan, of British and Russian America 303 

Instruments. Number of, in use by observers 24 

Investigation of collections 28,46 

Investigations at the Institution 31 

Irradiation 211, 232 

Japan. Geological researches in 18 

Jones, Strachan. Explorations by 26 

Notes on Tinneh Indians 320 

Kaleidophone. Wheatstone's 213 

Keller on antiquities of Olmutz 363 

Kennicott, Robert. Action of Regents relative to death of 79 

Explorations by 26 

Meteorological facts by 412 

Kessler, Chas. Donationof books from 29 

Kirchoff 's discoveries 195 

Kluge, J. P. Explorations by 27 

Koch, Dr. K. Donations of books from 29 

Knudsen, V. Exploration by 27 

Kutchiu Indians. Notes on, by S. Jones 320 

Lakes of Norway. Statisticsof 435,449 

Lane, J.. H. Articles referred to 31 

Latimer, Geo. Explorations by 27 

Lawrence, Geo.N. Specimens referred to 28 

Lea, Isaac. Articles referred to 28, 31 

LeConte, Dr. J.L. , List of Coleoptera 19,20 

Now species North American Coleoptera 19, 20 

Lectures. Remarks relative to - 31 

Leidy, Dr. Jas. Articles referred to 28, 31 

Letters. Secretary to Congress - 3 

Chancellor and Secretary 4 

Meteorological 402 

Lewis & Sons. Account of Cryolite of Greenland 398 

Lewis, James. Instructions for collecting land and fresh-water shells 389 

Libri's experiments on colors 243 

Library. Additions to, in 1866 28 

Transfer of, to library of Congress 13 

of Congress. Printing of catalogue of 20- 

Lincoln, Wm. Zootrope invented by 217 

List of works published by the Institution 19,20 

Lockhart, Jas. Explorations by 26 

Lombard, Dr. Influence of seasons on mortality 294 

Loucheux Indians. Notes on, by Wm. L. Hardisty 311 

Lunel, . On fishes of Cuba 298 

Luther. Original thesis or tracts of, received <^ 29 



INDEX. 465 

Page. 

MacDonald, Rev. Jas. Explorations by 26 

MacFarlane, Robert. Explorations by 26 

Magendie, Memoir of, by M. Flourens , 91 

Maps of America. Proposed by Dr. E. H. Davis 370 

Proposed by Geo. Gibbs , 368 

March, W. T. Explorations by 27 

Mariguac's chemical researches 295 

researches on aeronautics 292 

Matteucci's experiments on colors 215 

McKee, Dr. J. R. Explorations by 27 

Measurements. Scherzer and Schwarz's tables of physical 371 

Meek, F. B. Check list of fossils 20 

Specimens refeiTed to 28 

Melloni's experiments on colors 245 

Memorial to Congress, relative to Smithsonian fund 74 

Meteorological correspondence. Extracts from 402 

W. C. Dennis, Key West, Florida 402 

C. Dewey, Rochester, New York 403 

J, Baltzell, Tallahassee, Florida 404 

L. F. Ward, Medina, Ohio 404 

S. L. Andrews, Romeo, Michigan 405 

Jas. Balfour, Newport, Illinois 406 

Geo. C. Huntington, Kelley 's Island, Ohio 400 

C. Mallinikroot, Augusta, Missouri 407 

F. L. Capen, Chicago, Illinois 408 

A. Fendler, St. Louis, Missouri 408 

S. L. Hillier, Red Wing, Minnesota 408 

H. M. Bannister 410,411 

Meteorology. Instruments at the Institution 25 

Material received in 1866 60 

Observers, number of 23 

Results, publication of 24 

Stations and observers in 1866 51 

Account of system 23 

Dr. Gosse's report on 294 

Formation of ice at the bottom of water. 425 

Observations on barometer, by Vaillant 413 

of Russian America and Asia 345 

Meteors. Obsen'ation of 405 

Meusnier. Experiments on colors 220 

Mexico. Account of earthquake in 432 

Explorations in 27 

Micheli. On botany 296 

Miscellaneous Collections. Account of 19 

Mississippi river. Antiquities of 366 

Moigno, Abbe. On accidental or subjective colors 211 

Mongolia. Geological researches in 18 

Montague, Jean Francois. Sketch of 301 

Morris, Dr. J, G. Account of Luther tracts, by 29 

Mountains of Norway. Statistics of 435 

Explanation of names of 452 

MuUer, Frederic. Agent for exchanges 26, 38 

On inflorescence of Dalccampia 290 

30 S66 



4,QQ INDEX. 



Museum. List of donors to ^ '46 

National, necessity of 16 

Work done in 1866 44 

Myriapoda. On the collection of, by H. C.Wood. 395 

Natural History. Dr. Gosse"s report on 291 

Neptune. Orbit of -' 18 

Nervous System. Eesearches of Magendie and others - 107 

Researches of Sir Chas. Bell 118 

Newark, Ohio. Ancient earthworks at 359 

Newcomb, Prof. S. Articles referred to 31 

Investigation of orbit of Neptune - .18 

Newton, Prof. H. A. Articles referred to 31 

Nicaragua. Explorations in 27 

Nobili's experiments on colors 231 

Norton, Edw. Specimens referred to - 28 

Norway. Statistics of mountains, lakes, and snow-line 435 

Officers of the Institution 5 

Olmutz. Pile-work antiquities of ; 363 

Optical experiments and researches 211 

Organization. Plan of .■ 15 

Origin of man and races 329, 344 

Orizava volcano. Account of 432 

Osten Sacken, Baron. Specimens submitted to'. 28 

Ozone, Soret's results 294 

Pacific coast of United States. Explorations on 27 

Palmer, Dr. E. Explorations by. 27 

Panama. Explorations in 27 

Parsons, D. B. Explorations by 27 

Patent Office ----- 17 

Patterson, Hon. J. W. Acts of, as Eegent 72,73,74,75,76,78 

Peabody Institute, Baltimore 31 

Pease, Charles. Explorations by 26 

Peclet's experiments on colors - 242 

Pepin, Lake. Antiquities of 366 

Perrot's furnace for melting gold by ordinary gas 293 

Perrot, Louis. Sketch of........ 299 

Phalangidse. On collecting, by H. C. Wood 395 

Phantascope. Plateau's 216 

Phenakistoscope. Plateau's 216 

Philadelphia Academy of Sciences. Aid to explorations - 27 

Phoenix Iron Company. Builders of Smithsonian roof 17 

Photometer. Wheatstone's 214 

Physical atlas of North America, by G. Gibbs 868 

geography. Statistics of Norway 435 

sciences. Report on 291 

Physiology of vitality. Higgins on 379 

Magendie's researches .- - •- 91 

Pile-work antiquities of Olmutz 363 

Plantamour. Fact in horology observed by ^ 293 

on meteorology 294 

Plateau's experiments on colors 212, 226, 238 

Researches on figures of equilibrium of a liquid mass withdrawn from 

the action of gravity. 255 



INDEX. 467 

Page. 

Pottery. Indian, by Charles Rau 346 

Prieur's experiments on colors 220 

Prime, Temple. Monograph of Corbiculadoe 19 

Printing done by the Institution in 1866 19 

annual report, ordered by Congress 2 

Superintendent of Public. Facilities rendered by 23 

Programme of organization 7 

International Archaeological Congress 374 

Publications of the Institution. Account of 18,21 

Pumpelly, R. Geological researches in China, &c 18 

Purkiuje's experiments on colors 243 

Quale, Paul. Account of cryolite of Greenland .398 

Rau, Charles. Indian pottery - 346 

Receipts and expenditures of the Institution 65 

Redfield, J. H. Aid to explorations 27 

Reed, John. Explorations by 26 

Reeves, Joel. Explorations by 27 

Regents of the Institution 5, 72 

Journal of proceedings of Board 72 

Report. Building Committee 69 

Executive Committee 65,77 

Special Committee on Accounts 78 

of the Board, presented to Congress 3,79 

of the Institution. Account of 22 

Resolutions of the Board 72 

of Congress to print Report of the Institution 2 

Rhoads, J. Explorations by 27 

Ridgeway, Robert. Explorations by 27 

Riggs, George W. Aid to explorations 27 

Riotte, C. N. Explorations by 27 

Rocky Mountain region of United States. Explorations in 27 

Rodman, Samuel. Meteorological observations 25 

Ross, Bernard R. Notes on Tinneh Indians 303 

Rothrock, J. T. Explorations by 26 

Ruhmkorff 's electric apparatus 291, 293 

Rumford's experiments on colors _ 218 

Russian America. Explorations in 26 

Meteorology of 411 

Notes on Indians of - 303 

Rutimeyer. On antiquities of Olmutz 364 

Salazar, Governor, Explorations by 27 

Salt. Manufacture of 402 

Sands, Captain. Explorations by 26 

Sandwich Islands. Explorations in 27 

Sartorius, Chas. Account of earthquake in Mexico 432 

Explorations by 27 

Sartorius, F. Explorations by 27 

Savart's experiments on colors 215 

Scammon, Captain. Explorations by 26 

Schaefler, Prof. G. C. Articles referred to 31 

Schei^ffer's experiments on colors - 218,225 

Scherzer and Schwarz. Tables of physical measurements 371 

Schott, Arthur. Explorations by 27 

Schwartz, W. F. Explorations by 27 



468 INDEX. 

Page. 

Scientific facts and principles. Discovery of 408 

Seaton, Wm. W. Action of Eegents relative to 73 

Sketch of life of 80 

Sense of hearing 142 

of sight ]73 

of taste 127 

Seward, Hon. F. W. Transmitting Norwegian statistics 435 

Sharp, Dr. E. Explorations by 27 

Shell deposits of the United States, by D. G. Brinton 356 

Shells. Instructions for collecting land and fresh-water, by J. Lewis 389 

Shimer, Prof. Henry. Explorations by • 27 

Sibbiston, James. Explorations by 26 

Sight. Sense of 173 

Silliman, Prof. B. Aid to explorations 27 

Simpson, Sir Geo. Meteorological phenomena noticed by 412 

Smith, D. A. Explorations by.. 26 

Smith, N.D. Meteorological observations , 24 

Smith's experiments on colors 220 228 

Smithson. Amount of bequest of, and investment 65,74 

Willof ' 7 

Residuary legacy of 74^ 77 

Snow-line of Norway. Statistics of 435, 452 

Soret, Frederic Jacob. Sketch of 300 

Soret, M.Louis. On ozone 294 

South America. Explorations in 27 

Spectrum analysis applied to heavenly bodies. Lecture by Huggins 195 

Spofford, A. R. Librarian of Congress 15, 30 

Spontaneous generation. Theory of 344 

Statistics relative to Norwegian mountains, lakes, and the snow-line 435 

Relative to exchanges 35 

Stocks. Condition and disposition of 65, 66, 67, 68, 78 

Strebe], Dr. Explorations by 27 

Stuart, R. L. Aid to explorations 27 

Sumichrast, Prof. Explorations by 27 

Sun's disk. External appearance of 209 

Surgeon General. Meteorological system of 23 

Swaim, James. Agent for apparatus : 26 

Swann, J. G. Explorations by 27 

Swift, Robert L. Aid to explorations 27 

Taste. Sense of 127 

Taylor, W. B. Articles referred to 31 

Thaumatrope , 216 

Thompson, Professor K. Meteorological observations 25 

Tinneh Indians. Notes on, by B. R. Ross ' 1 303 

Tornadoes. Explanation of 410 

Tornbea-g, Professor C. J. Donation of books from 29 

Torrey, Dr. John. Articles referred to '... 31 

Specimens referred to 28 

Totten, Dr. Exploration by 27 

Transactions of learned societies. Catalogue of 19 

of Society of Physics and Natural History of Geneva 291 

Translations by C. A. Alexander 

Treasury, Secretary of. To receive Smithson funds 77 

Trumbull, Hon. L. Acts of as regent • 74, 75, 76 



INDEX. 469 

Page. 

Tryon, George W. Specimens referred to 28 

Tubes. Cause of breaking of glass 404 

Ulke, H. Specimens referred to 28 

Vaillaut, M. On horary variations of barometer 413 

Van Nostrand, II. Aid to explorations -i 27 

Vitality. Researches by Higgius 379 

Von Frantzius, Di". A. Explorations by 27 

Wallach, Hon. Richard. Acts of as regent 72,73,74,76,78,79 

Report of Executive Committee 65 

Wartman's chemical researches 295 

Physical researches 291 

Water. Fresh in salt 403 

Water-spoiits. Explanation of 410 

Wheatly, C. M. Aid to explorations 27 

Wheatstone's experiments on colors 213,232,244 

Whitney, Professor W. D. Articles referred to 31 

Whittlesey, Charles. On fresh-water glacial drift 18, 32 

Wernigk, Dr. Explorations by 27 

Wesley, William. Agent for exchange 26,38 

West Indies. Explorations in 27 

Wetherill, Professor C. M. Plan of research on the atmosphere 396 

Wilkes's exploring expedition 16 

Winds. Cause of change of direction of the 407 

Observations on 403,404,406 

Wood, Dr. H. C. On collecting myriapoda, «S:c 395 

Woodward, Dr. I. I, Articles referred to 31 

Wright, Charles. Explorations by 27 

Wyman, Professor J. Articles referred to ■ 31 

Younglove, A. E. Explorations by 27 

Yucatan. Explorations in 27 

Zantedeschi's experiments on colors 243 

Zeledon, A. Explorations by 27 

Zoology. Dr. Gosse's report on 293 

Zootrope. Description of 217 



I STITTjTlOH 



//6 6 



WAS'S^"'!")-! 



■^^'' 



V>J= 



• 'vA 



:^ 



5 



"'—y 






h 



^5^ 



SMITHSONIAN INSTfTUTION LIBRARIES 




3 9088 014216253 J 



