Mm' 



■'-yfi 



'L'l^i 



iiiiiii i 



♦ ! h 



ij 1 ;j 



Annual Report of the Board of Regents 

of the 

SMITHSONIAN 
INSTITUTION 




PUBLICATION 4478 

Showing the Operations, Expenditures , and Condition of the 
Institution for the Year Ended June 30 

1961 



U.S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE 
WASHINGTON : 1962 



For sale by the Superintendent of Documents, U.S. Oovemment Printing OflBce 
Washington 25, D.C. - Price $4.25 



LETTEE OF TRANSMITTAL 



Smithsonian Institution, 
Washington, December 29, 1961. 

To the Congress of the United States: 

In accordance with section 5593 of the Revised Statutes of the 
United States, I have the honor, on behalf of the Board of Regents, 
to submit to Congress the annual report of the operations, expendi- 
tures, and condition of the Smithsonian Institution for the year ended 
June 30, 1961. 

Respectfully, 

Leonard Carmichael, Secretary. 



fw\ D^-^ 



CONTENTS 



Fuse 

List of officials v 

General statement 1 

The Establishment . 17 

The Board of Regents 17 

Finances 18 

Visitors 18 

Reports of branches of the Institution: 

United States National Museum 20 

Bureau of American Ethnology 48 

Astrophysical Observatory 81 

National Collection of Fine Arts 99 

Freer Gallery of Art 110 

National Air Museum 124 

National Zoological Park 133 

Canal Zone Biological Area 178 

International Exchange Service 183 

National Gallery of Art 192 

Report on the library 205 

Report on publications 209 

Other activities: 

Lectures 218 

Science Information Exchange 218 

Smithsonian Museum Service 219 

Report of the executive committee of the Board of Regents 221 



GENERAL APPENDIX 



Some astronomical aspects of life in the universe, by Su-Shu Huang 239 

X-rays from the sun, by Herbert Friedman 251 

The challenge of space exploration, by Robert C. Seamans, Jr 263 

The Smithsonian's satellite-tracking program: Its history and organization, 

by E. Nelson Hayes 275 

The main lines of mathematics, by J. L. B. Cooper 323 

Early experiments in instrument flying, by James H. Doolittle 337 

Three famous early aero engines, by Robert B. Meyer, Jr 357 

Organic chemistry: a view and a prospect, by Sir Alexander Todd 373 

The new age of the sea, by Philip B. Yeager 381 

Drilling beneath the deep sea, by William E. Benson 397 

A natural history of trilobites, by H. B. Whittington_ 405 

Chromosomes and the theory of heredity, by C. D. Darlington 417 

Tropical climates and biology, by G. S. Carter 429 

Outdoor aerobiology, by P. H. Gregory 445 

St ^^ 

INSiuuiiUfi -^^ 15 '962 



IV ANlSrUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

Pae* 
The detection and evasion of bats by moths, by Kenneth D. Roeder and 

Asher E. Treat 455 

The honey bee, by James I. Hambleton 465 

Australopithicines and the origin of man, by J. T. Robinson 479 

Evolution, genetics, and anthropology, by A. E. Mourant 501 

The skull of Shanidar II, by T. D. Stewart.. _ 521 

Heyerdahl's Kon-Tiki theory and its relation to ethnobotany, by F. P. 

Jonker 535 

Minerals in art and archeology, by Rutherford J. Gettens 551 

LIST OF PLATES 
Secretary's Report: 

Plates 1, 2._ 62 

Plates 3-6 - 110 

Plates 7-9 134 

Plates 10-14 198 

Astronomical aspects of life (Huang) : Plates 1-3 246 

Satellite-tracking program (Hayes): Plates 1-4 294 

Instrument flying (Doolittle) : Plates 1,2 342 

Early aero engines (Meyer) : Plates 1-9 358 

New age of the sea (Yeager): Plates 1-3 390 

Drilling beneath the sea (Benson) : Plates 1-4 398 

Trilobites (Whittington) : Plates 1-8 406 

Tropical climates and biology (Carter): Plates 1-4 438 

Aerobiology (Gregory): Plates 1, 2 446 

Detection and evasion of bats by moths (Roeder and Treat) : Plates 1-6 _ 462 

Honeybee (Hambleton): Plates 1-4 470 

Skull of Shanidar II (Stewart) : Plates 1-9 . 526 

Minerals in art and archeology (Gettens): Plates 1-8 566 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION 

June 30, 1961 

Presiding Officer ex oflicio. — John F. Kennedy, President of the United States. 
Chancellor. — Eabl Wakken, Chief Justice of the United States. 
Members of the Institution: 

John F. Kennedy, President of the United States. 

Lyndon B. Johnson, Vice President of the United States. 

Eakl Warken, Chief Justice of the United States. 

Dean Rusk, Secretary of State. 

Douglas Dillon, Secretary of the Treasury. 

Robert S. McNamara, Secretary of Defense. 

Robert F. Kennedy, Attorney General. 

J. Edward Day, Postmaster General. 

Stewart L. Udall, Secretary of the Interior. 

Orville L. Freeman, Secretary of Agriculture. 

Luther H. Hodqes, Secretary of Commerce. 

Abthxtb J. Goldberg, Secretary of Labor. 

Abraham A. Ribicoff, Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare. 
Regents of the Institution: 

Earl Warren, Chief Justice of the United States, Chancellor. 

Lyndon B. Johnson, Vice President of the United States. 

Clinton P. Anderson, Member of the Senate. 

J. WiLLLA^M Fulbright, Member of the Senate. 

Leverett S ALTON stall, Member of the Senate. 

Frank T. Bow, Member of the House of Representatives. 

Overton Brooks, Member of the House of Representatives. 

Clarence Cannon, Member of the House of Representatives. 

John Nicholas Brown, citizen of Rhode Island. 

Arthur H. Compton, citizen of Missouri. 

Robert V. Fleming, citizen of Washington, D.O. 

Crawford H. Greenewalt, citizen of Delaware. 

Caryl P. Haskins, citizen of Washington, D.C. 

Jerome C. Hunsaker, citizen of Massachusetts. 
Executive Committee. — Robert V. Fleming, Chairman, Clarence Cannon, 

Caryl P. Haskins. 
Secretary. — Leonard Carmichael. 

Assistant Secretaries. — A. Remington Kellogg, James C. Bradley. 
Assistant to the Secretary. — Theodore W. Taylor. 

Administrative assistant to the Secretary. — Mrs. Louise M. Pearson. 
Treasurer. — Edgar L. Roy. 

Chief, editorial and publications division. — Paul H. Oehser. 
Librarian. — Ruth E. Blanchard. 

Curator, Smithsonian Museum Service. — G. Carroll Lindsay. 
Buildings Manager. — Andrew F. Michaels, Jr. 
Director of Personnel. — J. A. Kennedy. 
Chief, supply division. — A. W. Wilding. 
Chief, photographic service division. — O. H. Greeson. 



VI ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

UNITED STATES NATIONAL MUSEUM 

Director. — A. Remington Kellogg. 
Registrar. — Helena M. Weiss. 

MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY 

Director. — A. C. Smith. 
Administrative Officer. — Mrs. Mabel A. Byrd. 

Department of Anthropology : T. Dale Stewart, head curator ; A. J. Andrews, 
exhibits specialist. 
Division of Archeology: W. R. Wedel, curator; Clifford Evans, Jr., G. W. 

Van Beek, associate curators. 
Division of Ethnology: S. H. Riesenberg, curator; G. D. Gibson, E. I. Knez, 

associate curators ; R. A. Elder, Jr., assistant curator. 
Division of Physical Anthropology: T. D. Stewart, acting curator; M. T. 

Newman, associate curator. 
Department of Zoology : F. A. Chace, Jr., acting head curator. 

Division of AI animals: D. H. Johnson, curator; C. O. Handley, Jr., H. "W. 

Setzer, associate curators. 
Division of Birds: H. G. Deignan, curator. 

Division of Reptiles and Amphibians : Doris M. Cochran, curator. 
Division of Fishes: L. P. Schultz, curator; E. A. Lachner, W. R. Taylor, 

associate curators. 
Division of Insects: J. F. G. Clarke, curator; O. L. Cartwright, R. E. 

Crabill, Jr., W. D. Field, O. S. Flint, Jr., associate curators. 
Division of Marine Invertchrates: F. A. Chace, Jr., curator; F. M. Bayer, 

T. E. Bowman, C. E. Cutress, Jr., associate curators. 
Division of Mollusks: H. A. Rehder, curator; J. P. E. Morrison, associate 

curator. 
Department of Botany (National Herbarium) : J. R. Swallen, head curator. 
Division of Phanerogams: L. B. Smith, curator; R. S. Cowan, E. C. 

Leonard, Velva E. Rudd, J. J. "Wurdack, associate curators. 
Division of Ferns: C. V. Morton, curator. 
Division of Grasses: J. R. Swallen, acting curator; T. R. Soderstrom, 

assistant curator. 
Division of Cryptogams: M. E. Hale, Jr., associate curator in charge; P. S. 

Conger, associate curator ; R. R. Ireland, Jr., assistant curator. 
Division of Woods: W. L. Stern, curator. 
Department of Geology : G. A. Cooper, head curator. 

Division of Mineralogy and Petrology: G. S. Switzer, curator; P. E. Des- 

autels, E. P. Henderson, associate curators; R. S. Clarke, Jr., chemist. 
Division of Invertebrate Paleontology and Paleobotany: R. S. Boardman, 

associate curator in charge ; P. M. Kier, Richard Cifelli, E. G. Kauffman, 

associate curators. 
Division of Vertebrate Paleontology: C. L. Gazin, curator; Nicholas Hot- 
ton, III, associate curator; F. L. Pearce, exhibits specialist. 

MUSEUM OF HISTORY AND TECHNOLOGY 

Director. — F. A. Taylor. 
Assistant Director.— J. C. Ewers. 
Administrative officer. — W. E. Boyle. 
Chief exhibits specialist. — J. E. Anglim. 



SECRETARY'S REPORT VH 

In charge of Taxidermy. — TV. M. Perrygo. 

Assistant chief exhiMts specialists. — B. S. Bory, R. O. Hower, B. "W. Lawless, Jr. 
Department of Science and Technology : R. P. Multhauf , head curator. 
Division of Physical Sciences: R. P. Multbanf, acting curator. 
Division of Mechanical and Civil Engineering : R. M. Vogel, curator in 

charge ; E. A. Battison, associate curator. 
Division of Transportation: H. I. Chapelle, curator; K. M. Perry, J. H. 

White, Jr., associate curators. 
Division of Electricity : R. P. Multhauf, acting curator. 
Division of Medical Sciences: J. B. Blake, curator; S. K. Hamameh, 

associate curator. 
Depabtment of Arts and Manufactures : P. W. Bishop, head curator. 
Division of Textiles: Grace L. Rogers, associate curator in charge. 
Division of Ceramics and Glass: P. V. Gardner, associate curator in charge. 
Division of Oraphio Arts: Jacob Kaiuen, curator; Eugene Ostroff, F. O. 

Griffith, associate curators. 
Division of Manufactures and Heavy Industries: P. W. Bishop, acting 

curator; C. O. Houston, Jr., associate curator. 
Division of Agriculture and Forest Products: E. C. Kendall, associate 

curator in charge. 
Department of Civil History : R. H. Howland, head curator ; P. C. Welsh, 
associate curator ; Arlene P. Kringold, assistant curator. 
Division of Political History: W. E. Washburn, curator; Mrs. Margaret 

Brown Klapthor, associate curator ; Mrs. Anne W. Murray, H. R. Collins, 

assistant curators. 
Division of Cultural History: C. Malcolm Watkins, curator; Rodris C. Roth, 

associate curator ; Cynthia L. Adams, J. N. Pearce, assistant curators ; 

Anthony Hathaway, junior curator. 
Division of Philately and Postal History: G. T. Turner, associate curator 

in charge ; F. J. McCall, associate curator ; C. H. Scheele, assistant 

curator. 
Division of Numismatics : Vladimir Clain-Stefanelli, associate curator in 

charge; Mrs. Elvira Clain-Stefanelli, associate curator. 
Department of Armed Forces History : M. L. Peterson, head curator. 

Division of Military History: E. M. Howell, curator; C. R. Goins, Jr., 

associate curator. 
Division of Naval History: P. K. Lundeberg, associate curator in charge. 

BUREAU OF AMERICAN ETHNOLOGY 

Director. — F. H. H. Roberts, Jr. 
Anthropologist. — H. B. Collins, Jr. 
Ethnologists.— W. C. Sturtevant, W. L. Chafe. 

River Basin Surveys. — F. H. H. Roberts, Jr., Director; R. L. Stephenson, 
Chief, Missouri Basin Project. 

astrophysical observatory 

Director. — F. L. Whipple. 

Assistant Director. — C. W. Tillinghast. 

Astronomers. — G. A. Bakos, G. Colombo, G. H. Conant, Jr., L. Goldberg, I. G. 
Izsak, Y. Kozai, K. Lassovszky, J. Slovvey, P. E. Zadunaisky. 

Mathematicians. — R. E. Briggs, D. A. Lautman. 

Physicists. — R. J. Davis, E. L. Fireman, F. Franklin, O. Gingerich, M. Grossi, 
P. W. Hodge, L. G. Jacchia, M. Krook, R. E. McCrosky, R. B. Riggs, Jr., 
O. Rustgi, A. Skalaf uris, R. B. Southworth, D. Tilles, C. A. Whitney. 



Vin ANlSrUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN rNSTITUTION, 1961 

Geodesists. — J. RolfF, G. Veis. 

Oeologist. — J. Wood. 

Table Mountain, Calif., field station. — A. G. FroUand, physicist. 

Division of Radiation and Obganisms : 

Chief.— W. H. Klein. 

Plant physiologists. — J. L. Edwards, V. B. Elstad, L. Loercher, L. Price. 

Biophysicist. — W. Shropshire. 

Biochemist. — M. Margulies. 

Cy to geneticist. — R. L. Latterell. 

Electronic Engineer. — J. H. Harrison. 

Instrument maker. — D. G. Talbert. 

NATIONAL COLLECTION OF FINE ARTS 

Director. — T. M. Beggs. 

Associate curator. — Rowland Lyon. 

Smithsonian Traveling Exhibition Sekvice. — Mrs. Annemarie H. Pope, Chief. 

FREER GALLERY OF ART 
Director. — A. G. Wenley. 
Assistant Director. — J. A. Pope. 

Head curator, Near Eastern Art. — Richard Ettinghausen. 
Curator, Japanese Art. — H. P. Stern. 
Associate curator, Chinese Art. — J. F. Cahill. 
Head curator, Laboratory. — R. J. Gettens. 

NATIONAL AIR MUSEUM 
Advisory Board: 

Leonard Carmichael, Chairman. 

Maj. Gen. Brooke Allen, U.S. Air Force. 

Rear Adm. P. D. Stroop, U.S. Navy. 

Lt. Gen. James H. Doolittle. 

Grover Loening. 
Director. — P. S. Hopkins. 
Head curator and historian. — P. E. Garber. 
Associate curators. — L. S. Casey, W. M. Male, K. E. Newland. 
Junior curator. — R. B. Meyer. 

NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK 
Director. — T. H. Reed. 
Associate Director. — J. L. Grimmer. 
Veterinarian. — James F. Wright. 

CANAL ZONE BIOLOGICAL AREA 
Resident Naturalist. — M. H. Moynihan. 

INTERNATIONAL EXCHANGE SERVICE 
Chief.— J. A. Collins. 

NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART 
Trustees: 

Eael Warben, Chief Justice of the United States, Chairman. 

Dean Rusk, Secretary of State. 

Douglas Dillon, Secretary of the Treasury. 

Leonard Carmichael, Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution. 

F. Lakmot Bklih. 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 



IX 



Trustees — Continued 

John Hay Whitney. 

Chesteb Dale. 

Paul Mellon. 

Rush H. Kress. 
President. — Chester Dale. 
Vice President, — Paul Mellon. 
Secretary-Treasurer. — Huntington Cairns. 
Director. — John Walker. 
Administrator. — Ernest R. Feidleb. 
General Counsel. — Huntington Cairns. 
Chief Curator. — Perry B. Cott. 

* * * « 

Honorary Research Associates, Collaborators, and Fellows 

Office of the Secretary 

John E. Graf 

United States National Museum 



MUSEUM of natural HISTORY 



Antliropology 



J. M. Campbell, Archeology. 
N. M. Judd, Archeology. 
H. W. Krieger, Ethnology. 
Betty J. Meggers, Archeology. 



F. M. Setzler, Anthropology. 
H. Morgan Smith, Archeology. 
W. W. Taylor, Jr., Archeology. 
W. J. Tobin, Physical Anthropology. 



Zoology 



Doris H. Blake, Insects. 

J. Bruce Bredin, Biology. 

M. A. Carriker, Insects. 

Ailsa M. Clark, Marine Invertebrates. 

C. J. Drake, Insects. 
Herbert Friedmann, Birds. 

D. C. Graham, Biology. 

H. H. Hobbs, Jr., Marine Invertebrates. 
A. B. Howell, Mammals. 
F. M. Hull, Insects. 
Laurence Irving, Birds. 



W. L. Jellison, Insects. 

Allen Mcintosh, Mollusks. 

J. P. Moore, Marine Invertebrates. 

C. F. AV. Muesebeck, Insects. 

W. L. Schmitt, Marine Invertebrates. 

Benjamin Schwartz, Helmiuthology. 

R. E. Snodgrass, Insects. 

T. E. Snyder, Insects. 

H. K. Townes, Insects. 

Alexander Wetmore, Birds. 

Mildred S. Wilson, Copepod Crustacea. 



Botany 



C. R. Benjamin, Fungi. 
Agnes Chase, Grasses. 

E. P. Killip, Phanerogams. 

F. A. McClure, Grasses. 



Kittle F. Parker, Phanerogams. 
J. A. Stevenson, Fungi. 
W. N. Watkins, Woods. 



Geology 



R. S. Bassler, Paleontology. 
R. W. Brown, Paleobotany. 
P. E. Cloud, Invertebrate Paleontology. 



C. W. Cooke, Invertebrate Paleontology. 
W. T. Schaller, Mineralogy. 



X ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

MUSEUM OF HISTORY AND TECHNOLOGY 

Exliibits 

W. L. Brown. 
History 



Mrs. Arthur M. Greenwood, Cultural 

Histoi'y. 
E. C. Herber, History. 



I. N. Hume, Cultural History. 
F. W. MacKay, Numismatics. 



Science and Technology 

Derek J. Price. 

Bureau of American Ethnology 



J. P. Harrington. 
Sister M. Inez Hilger. 



Oleg Grabar. 

Grace Dunham Guest. 



Frederick C. Crawford. 



M. W. Stirling. 
A. J. Waring, Jr. 



Astrophysical Observatory 

C. G. Abbot. 

Freer Gallery of Art 



Max Loehr. 
Katherine N. Rhoades. 



National Air Museum 
I John J. Ide. 
National Zoological Park 

E. p. Walker. 

Canal Zone Biological Area 

C. C. Soper. 



Report of the Secretary of the 
Smithsonian Institution 

LEONARD CARMICHAEL 

For the Year Ended June 30, 1961 

To the Board of Regents of the Smitlisonian Institution: 

Gentlemen: I have the honor to submit a report showing the 
activities and condition of the Smithsonian Institution and its branches 
for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1961. 

GENERAL STATEMENT 

Just 115 years ago, Joseph Henry presented to the first Board of 
Regents of the Institution, at their request, a "Program of Organ- 
ization of the Smithsonian Institution." "WHiile this document was 
being formulated, Henry was still a professor at Princeton and 
actively engaged in teaching and experimental work in physics. 
He was a man of broad influence. His eminence in science had already 
led his contemporaries to describe him as being next to Franklin 
in the list of great American physical scientists. The program that 
he outlined for the Smithsonian was so good that he was almost at 
once offered the position of Secretary of the Institution. After much 
hesitation he accepted the post and spent the next 32 years skillfully 
putting into practice and developing the plan that he had evolved. 

Today, as we look at Henry's program for the Smithsonian and 
study the steps that he took to give it reality, we are struck by his 
wisdom and especially by his foresight. Before writing the basic 
program, Henry acquainted himself with the life and the attitudes 
of the distinguished English scientist, James Smithson, whose bequest 
established the Institution. This study led Henry to place great 
emphasis on the words Smithson himself had used to describe the 
objective of his establishment, that it should be "for the increase 
and diffusion of knowledge among men." 

It is almost startling to note, in spite of intervening wars and many 
social and economic changes, that the constructive activities of the 
Smithsonian Institution in 1961 can still accurately be subsumed under 
the headings of the increase and diffusion of laiowledge as directed by 
Smithson and as made a reality by Joseph Henry. 

X 



2 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

By means of research publications, popular publications, museum 
activities, lectures, international exchange of scientific documents, 
and a voluminous correspondence, the Institution during the current 
year, as in Plenry's time, has effectively diffused knowledge. By 
investigations in a wide range of fields, the Smithsonian has also 
continued the research for which it has long been world-famous and 
that has increased the true sum of human knowledge. It can there- 
fore be said with assurance that the current year has been outstanding 
in the two main activities which both Smithson and Henry saw as 
fundamental at the Smithsonian. 

Much progress was made during the year on the new buildings that 
will soon help in a most basic way these great twin objectives. Con- 
struction progressed on the additional monumental building of the 
Institution which when completed will house and display the notable 
collections of the Smithsonian in the fields of history and technology. 
The laying of the cornerstone of this building, with appropriate cere- 
monies, took place on May 19. Work was also begun on the building 
of the long-needed East Wing of the Natural History Building. De- 
tails of these building operations are given on later pages of this 
report. 

Good progress was also made in the continuing gradual renovation 
of all exhibits now displayed in existing Smithsonian buildings. It 
may be appropriate and useful to recapitulate here the work that 
has been completed in this great program since it began some eight 
years ago, inasmuch as such a summary has not previously been pre- 
sented in any annual report of the Institution. 

1. FOSSIL PLANTS AND INVERTEBRATES 

The new Hall of Fossil Plants and Invertebrate Animals shows in 
a modem series of artistically arranged exhibits the scientific record 
of the early development of life on this planet. At the very beginning 
of the hall care is taken to show and explain what a fossil is, what 
animals and plants have been found as fossils, how animals become 
entombed in rocks, and how the geologic time scale was formed. A 
special case displays what may well be the oldest fossil known. 
Visitors see not only some of the Smithsonian's outstanding fossil 
preparations but also full-scale reproductions by means of colored 
models of typical groups of the plants and animals that lived all over 
the globe in the warm seas of millions of years ago. An exhibit called 
"Giants of the Past" shows some of the largest known invertebrate 
fossils. As in all modern Smithsonian exhibits, this hall displays only 
a small fraction of the total collections of fossil plants and inverte- 
brates that belong to the Institution. Those selected for public display 
are shown in such a way as to give each visitor a vivid, interesting, 
and accurate introduction to the basic science of paleontology. The 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 3 

remaining collections in tliis, as in all fields, are available for study 
by qualified students. 

2. FOSSIL FISHES AND AMPHIBIANS 

The Hall of Fossil Fishes, Amphibians, and Primitive Eeptiles 
displays selections from the Smithsonian's superb collections of these 
fossil creatures wliich represent the most primitive groups of back- 
boned animals. Here are many actual skeletons of some of these great 
ancient animals that ruled the land and the seas before modern ani- 
mals evolved. This hall portrays in a particularly clear way the 
development of jaws and tlie anatomical changes related to the transi- 
tion from life in water to life on the land. A habitat group illustrates 
for the visitor what some of these animals were actually like when 
they ranged the globe. A life-size diorama shows conflict between 
two kinds of pelycosaurs, or fin-backed reptiles, as might have hap- 
pened 260 million years ago. 

3. PREHISTORIC MAMMALS 

In the Hall of the Age of Mammals in Xorth America lifelike 
dioramas and scientifically accurate and artistically significant murals 
recreate a mammalian world that existed before modern man ap- 
peared. Here are shown skeletons of some of the marine and land 
mamimals that swam, climbed, ran, or even flew millions of years ago. 
To give but one example, in a well-lighted case is the complete fossil 
skeleton of a 55-foot-long primitive whale. The remarkable series of 
skeletons exhibited in this hall were painstakingly collected by Smith- 
sonian scientists in the field over many years and were then skillfully 
prepared for disjjlay in the museum laboratory of the Institution. 

4. GEMS AND MINERALS 

The Smithsonian Institution has one of the world's great collections 
of minerals. Competent observers declare that the Smithsonian's 
new Hall of Minerals is the best single exhibition of its kind in the 
world. The immediately adjacent Gem Room is also spoken of as 
the best exhibition of gems on public display in the United States. 
Thousands of specimens, many of them of great rarity and beauty, 
are featured in cases at an ideal height and so lighted as to show 
colors properly. The galleries are arranged so that the student of 
mineralogy can learn about both the crystalline structures of min- 
erals and the chemical composition of the specimens displayed. But 
the hall is also significant from an esthetic and natural-history point 
of view for persons interested in minerals and gems as beautiful ob- 
jects rather than as basic specimens for the science of mineralogy. 
One dramatic case shows selected minerals imder ultraviolet light, 
which causes them to fluoresce with glows of many dijfferent colors. 



4 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

Here too, by the use of a rotating disk, the radioactivity of a natural 
uraniiun ore is demonstrated. 

Tliis hall displays only 3 percent of the total Smithsonian's mineral 
collection, which has been gradually assembled by transfer to the In- 
stitution of minerals collected by other Government agencies, by pur- 
chases made possible by the expenditure of funds given to the 
Smithsonian exclusively for this purpose, and by gifts of minerals 
and gems by many citizens, not only of America but also of countries 
throughout the world. In the Gem Room in a specially constructed 
safe is the Hope Diamond, the largest deep blue diamond in the world. 
Because of its rarity and aura of romantic mystery it is of intense 
interest to visitors. 

5. THE JADE ROOM 

Immediately adjoining the Gem Plall is a room devoted to a collec- 
tion of carved jade given to the Smithsonian in 1958 by the executors 
of the estate of the late Mrs. Maud Monel Vetlesen. This collection 
shows many large and beautifully carved jade objects from the 17th 
and 18th centuries. Many objects displayed here, such as the jade and 
gold scepters of old imperial China, are world famous. 

Adjacent to the Jade Room is a new but still temporary display of 
outstanding examples of meteorites from the Institution's large collec- 
tion of these natural objects that so unpredictably come to the earth 
from outer space. 

6. LATIN AMERICAN ARCHEOLOGY 

The Hall of Latin American Archeology brings together a unified 
range of important objects selected from the Smithsonian's extensive 
study collections of articles made by inhabitants of Central and South 
America before the coming of Columbus. The exhibits portray the 
wide range of early cultures in Latin America from those of simple 
hunting and fishing people to the high civilizations of the Incas, 
Mayas, and Aztecs. 

The emphasis of this hall is given to cultural development and the 
interchange of material objects by Indians before the advent of 
Europeans. The great accomplishments of pre-Columbian Indians in 
developing a number system, a calendar, and the cultivation of plants 
are shown. Some of the stone sculpture is remarkably modem in its 
feeling and execution. Here, as in all other new Smithsonian halls, 
the visitor is not presented with ponderous cases of the almost end- 
lessly repeated ceramic, stone, gold, silver, and other objects that 
are in the possession of the Institution. This old, so-called "visual 
storage," method of exhibition has for good reasons been abandoned. 
The objects on public display today are carefully chosen to give a 
coherent picture of each topic under consideration. Such general 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 5 

instruction cannot be conveyed to the nonexpert visitor by case after 
case of almost identical artifacts. 

It should be added parenthetically that from the standpoint of 
scientific American archeology and ethnology the study collections 
of the Smithsonian are perhaps even more important than the collec- 
tions on public display. Each year these study collections are becoming 
organized in a more accessible way, so that they may be used effectively 
by qualified research scientists. 

7. NORTH AMERICAN ARCHEOLOGY 

The Hall of North American Archeology displays selected objects 
from the collections of the Smithsonian dealing with prehistoric 
cultures of the Eskimo and the American Indians of the far North, 
the North Pacific coast, California, and the Southwest. The visitor 
gains a synoptic view of different styles of life of human beings in 
these areas of the continent in the centuries before the coming of the 
white man. Outstanding exhibits deal with primitive methods of 
quarrying, mining, making artifacts of stone, cultivating crops, and 
developing ornaments, household utensils, and many varieties of 
carved and sculptured pipes used in smoking tobacco. The objects 
displayed in this one new hall were selected from cataloged collections 
which number over 600,000 items. A second North American Indian 
Hall, which will show the prehistoric cultures of other North Ameri- 
can Indians, is now being prepared for public display. 

8. NATIVE PEOPLES OF THE AMERICAS 

This anthropological hall shows typical examples of the life char- 
acteristic of the native peoples in both North America and South 
America. Large glass-sided rooms have been installed depicting out- 
standing patterns of behavior of particular Indian tribes from Cal- 
ifornia, the Southwest, and south to the Fuegians at the lowest tip of 
South America. Here full-scale figures prepared under the direction 
of expert physical anthropologists and modeled by skillful sculptors 
illustrate ways of life considered by anthropologists to be of special 
significance in relation to each group represented. Some of these 
world-famous models have been shown in older exhibits at the Smith- 
sonian for many years, but before the development of the present 
modern, well-lighted, well-organized presentations many of them were 
not exhibited to best advantage. The present-day Smithsonian staff 
owes a debt of gratitude to their skillful and devoted predecessors who 
as much as 60 years ago created these scientifically correct figures that 
can now for the first time be displayed adequately. In this hall, also, 
by means of small dioramas, other typical phases of general life of 
the Indians of the Caribbean, of California, and of other regions of 
the continent are portrayed. 



6 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

9. INDIAN AND ESKIMO ARTS AND CUSTOMS 

The American Indian Hall dealing with the Eskimo and with the 
Indians of the Eastern woodlands, the Great Plains, and the North 
Pacific coast differs markedly from the one just described. In this 
hall or series of halls are displayed notable items from the Smith- 
sonian's vast study collections which preserve for scientists hundreds 
of thousands of objects or artifacts of the tribes here considered. 
Many of the objects shown here in the beautifully lighted and care- 
fully labeled cases are unduplicated elsewhere in the world. Today 
in the art world much is said of the importance of primitive sculpture 
and painting, but the work of the American Indians has not always 
been emphasized. In this hall one sees masks and figures that well 
illustrate the deep artistic feelings of their creators. The Smith- 
sonian, as the central museum of the United States, has long been the 
repository for collections of Indian objects belonging to the Govern- 
ment and dating back even into the colonial period. The Institution 
also preserves hundreds of thousands of objects collected by the great 
Western explorers of our young country. Army officers on isolated 
posts in the old West also were valued collectors for the Smithsonian. 
Objects from these and other sources have through the years been 
carefully cataloged, protected, and preserved at the Smithsonian. In 
this Hall of Indian and Eskimo Arts and Customs many of these 
priceless treasures are on public display for the first time. In one 
case are originals by George Catlin selected from the 450 paintings of 
this master in the collection of the Smithsonian. One of these paint- 
ings, for example, shows, almost as a modern color photograph 
would, Indians quarrying red pipestone to use in making ceremonial 
tobacco pipes. Thus in the same case the visitor can see examples of 
completed pipes as well as Catlin's on-the-spot painting showing 
exactly how Indians, who were then hardly influenced at all by Euro- 
peans, carried on this skillful work. It is interesting to note that 
the soapstone quarried here is scientifically called "catlinite" in honor 
of the artist who painted the very pictures here on display. In this 
hall is shown an unusual example of a Great Plains tepee. This large, 
portable living establislmient of skins, like many other specimens at 
the Smithsonian, was first displayed at the Centennial Exhibition in 
Philadelphia in 1876, at the close of which 66 freight car loads of 
important specimens were brought to the Smithsonian for permanent 
preservation. When this hall was being set up this tepee was still 
wrapped in old Philadelphia newspapers of the 1870's. This fact 
dramatically illustrates how important the present renovation of 
Smithsonian exhibits is for the American people and for visitors to 
our shores. As a result of these new displays, many of the great 
treasures of the Nation for the first time can be studied and under- 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 



stood by the millions of Americans of the present generation who 
come in ever-increasin<2r numbers to the musemn. 



10. THE WORLD OF MAMMALS 



Scientifically, the Smithsonian has sometimes been called the Na- 
tion's biological bureau of standards. It has been given this name 
because in the Smithsonian's collections zoological and botanical 
specimens are used every day by hundreds of scientists for compari- 
son and identification of new or unknown specimens. In connection 
with this work, for example, the Institution has developed one of 
the great collections of the furs of mammals of the world. Many of 
these pelts are kept in special storage rooms at low temperature for 
scientific study. In the new World of Mammals Hall, however, the 
visitor has an opportunity to see and study, in many instances in 
habitat placements, some of the most interesting and important mam- 
mals of the globe. These specimens are not presented monotonously 
as one "stuffed" animal after another in case after case. Rather, they 
are displayed so as to teach the basic principles of biology that are 
related to nutrition, locomotion, evolution, ecology, and survival. 
Here the student of zoology can see the many different ways in which 
the mammals of the world have adapted themselves to tropic heat 
and arctic snows. The ecological approach of many of these displays 
gives new significance to the exhibits that they present. Some of the 
groups of animals are dramatically arranged. Changing lights, for 
example, make it possible for the visitor to see first how lions view 
their prey, and then how the would-be prey, in this case zebras, view 
their would-be predators. IMany of the great African mammals dis- 
played were collected by President Theodore Roosevelt during his 
history-making African Expedition of 1909-10, sponsored by the 
Smithsonian Institution. 



11. NORTH AMERICAN MAMMALS 



In the hall just described, emphasis is given to mammals of the 
world exclusive of the great North American mammals. In this 
specifically North American Mammal Hall is a series of 12 large 
habitat groups showing the great and now often veiy rare wild ani- 
mals of the Northern Hemisphere of America. Each of these large 
exhibits not only shows numbers of specimens of such animals as 
bison, elk, moose, and bear but also presents each group, often show- 
ing both adult and young animals, against a skillfully painted back- 
ground of the terrain typical of the habitat of the animal. The 
mounted specimens in the foreground are shown in settings of care- 
fully reproduced trees, rocks, and other natural items. The rapid 
restriction of the range of some of these great animals, and even their 

625325—62 3 



8 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

virtual extinction, make it important to show here each of these groups. 
Species such as bighorn sheep and wolves, for example, now occupy 
in the wild state only a fraction of the area that was once theirs when 
the continent was first known to European settlers. This presenta- 
tion is important in zoological training. It gives a record of ani- 
mals that played a large part in providing through their fui*s much 
of the wealth of colonial America as well as food and clothing for the 
pioneers of the new land. 

12. BIRDS OF THE WORLD 

Ornithology is one of man's oldest scientific interests. This is at- 
tested by the frequent reference to birds in the Bible and in the writ- 
ings of ancient classical authors. The Smithsonian possesses one of 
the world's great collections of birds. The new Bird Hall of the 
Institution has been organized to show the principal birds of the world 
in natural, effective, and pleasing settings. But the hall goes far 
beyond a mere presentation of specimens. It depicts the biology of 
bird life in relation to feeding habits, aerial locomotion, nest build- 
ing, and the rearing of young. On the ceiling are lifelike paintings 
of birds in flight so skillfully done that they seem to be seen in full 
round of three-dimensional form as if arrested in flight. A unique 
case called "Birds and Man" portrays the role of birds in mythology 
and art. In addition to the displays in this hall, the Smithsonian 
has, of course, in its study collections, bird specimens from almost 
every geographical region of the globe. 

13. LIFE IN EARLY AMERICA 

The Hall of Life in Early America is an easy transition from the 
characteristics of the Indian population of the country and the mam- 
mals and birds of America to the life of early European settlers before 
the mechanization of the industrial revolution changed the American 
way of life. It shows the early life of the European settlers in 
America by demonstrating the tools and furniture that they used. 
For many years generous donors have brought together at the Smith- 
sonian large collections of objects used by Americans in what may 
be called the era of the handcrafts. In the present hall are displayed 
selected items from these collections, including implements and fur- 
niture that the colonists brought with them from England, Ireland, 
Germany, Spain, Scandinavia, and many other countries. Next is 
shown the adaptation that was made on these shores of these imported 
objects as a new and truly American culture gradually emerged. 
One may see an entire house built in New England about 1690. In 
this building, which was taken down board by board and brick by 
brick and transported to Washington and reassembled, are objects 
that were actually used during the early period when the house was 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 9 

inhabited by the artisans who built it. Many of them were collected 
and given to the Smithsonian by the donor of the house, Mrs. Arthur 
M. Greenwood. In this hall are shown other rooms depicting styles 
of life in different colonies — for example, a small but elegant paneled 
room of a Virginia gentleman. The visitor may see also a notable 
mahogany Philadelphia highboy and a number of cases of fine silver 
made in the South, Pennsylvania, New York, and New England. 
American forged iron, glass, pottery, pewter, and textiles are all dis- 
played. Another feature is an entire schoolroom of an early period 
showing the simple desks and equipment of elementary education in 
the formative days of our country. This hall has been visited by 
millions each year since its opening. Not only are its displays signifi- 
cant for Americans, who can learn from them how their predecessors 
of European stock lived in pre-industrial revolution days, but also 
the hall is especially interesting and important for foreign visitors, 
who may absorb something of the evolution of the present style of life 
of the United States during the early difficult and formative years 
of the country. 

14. GOWNS OF THE FIRST LADIES 

The First Ladies Hall in a sense carries forward in one special area 
the same philosophy shown in the large American cultural history 
hall just described. Here, in a series of special rooms, reproduced from 
various periods at the White House, are dresses actually worn by the 
wife or the official hostess of each President of the United States. In 
developing this series an effort was made to put in place furniture and 
other objects actually used in the Executive Mansion in Philadelphia 
before the White House was built and in the White House itself in 
different periods. This series is especially appropriate in this truly 
national museum setting of the Smithsonian. For example, the room 
in which the dresses of Martha Washington, Dolley Madison, and 
Abigail Adams are exhibited contains objects that were owned and 
used by President and Mrs. Washington. The visitor views this full 
series of simulated "Wliite House rooms from a setting treated in a 
dignified manner to suggest the White House itself. A large and 
beautiful early Victorian chandelier hanging in the middle of the 
visitors' space does much to enhance this atmosphere. In small wall 
cases are other objects related to the presidential families of America, 
including fine examples of White House china of various periods, 
jewelry, and decorations used by the Presidents and their wives 
throughout the history of the country. 

15. TEXTILE MACHINERY AND FIBERS 

The Textile Machinery and Fiber Hall shows the evolution of man's 
efforts to make materials of plant and animal fibers from prehistoric 
times to the present. It supplements well the First Ladies Hall 



10 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

because it demonstrates liow dress fabrics themselves and many otber 
textiles are created. It also demonstrates how the techniques of 
textile production have changed through the years. The visitor 
begins by looking at spindles recovered by archeologists from the 
sites of early human habitations. He then sees the development of 
more and more effective machinery for the manufacture of textiles. 
Some notable "firsts" are shown, for example, the actual model made 
by Whitney himself of the cotton gin and the first American spinning 
frame constructed by Slater in Khode Island in the 18th century. 
Visitors may see a most rare and beautiful dress made years ago 
entirely of silk from silkworms gi-own in America — the silk fibers 
processed in America and then hand sewn in America. Modern 
synthetic metallic and glass fibers and a wide variety of the textiles 
and textile machines that have made possible the modern multiplicity 
of industrial and decorative fabrics are included in the displays. 
One of the notable exhibits of this hall is a Jacquard loom more than 
a century and a half old which has been put in perfect working order 
by Mr. Arthur WuUschleger, who gave it to the Institution. This 
wonderful punch-card device weaves tapestries and patterned bro- 
cades without requiring a laborious setting by human hands. The 
student of the history of ideas looks at this machine with surprise 
as he wonders why such a device which uses punch cards that are 
very similar in size and shape to modern punch cards, was not applied 
to other industrial programing tasks until many years after the 
Jacquard loom had proved so well its practical usefulness. In this 
textile hall are many typical forms of textiles arranged so that each 
visitor may touch and feel them. In museums visitors expect to see 
signs reading "Please Do Not Touch." Here the Smithsonian has 
reversed the injunction to "Please Touch." Experts in textiles know 
that only by feeling fabrics can the visitor actually gain a satis- 
factory knowledge of different types of materials. 

16. TEXTILE PROCESSING 

Immediately above the textile hall just described is another new 
hall devoted to the display of textiles used in human clothing, house- 
hold decoration, and many industrial functions. This hall shows the 
history of sewing machines and other devices used in processing the 
textiles of civilization. Here one may also see illustrated the different 
types of dyeing and printing that have been used through the years 
for the embellishment of textiles and collections of great textile types 
such as lace and embroidery. No one who thinks of our modern world 
can fail to realize the role that the sewing machines of factory and 
home have played in the emancipation of women from monotonous toil. 
The collection of these interesting and effective machines at the 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 11 

Smithsonian is one of the best in the world. The thoughtful visitor 
who studies them learns not only a mechanical but also a sociological 
lesson of importance. 

17. POWER MACHINERY 

In the Hall of Power Machinery the visitor sees how human beings 
have progressed from the use of their own puny muscles to the great 
power devices of our industrial age. Here original machines and 
patent models illustrate the contribution of engineers and inventors 
such as Stevens, Corliss, Otto, and Diesel. By diagrams and pictures, 
waterwheels and windmills are shown. Included is a working model 
of a classical heat engine that was used to open and close temple doors 
in ancient Greece. Major displays demonstrate the invention and the 
development of the steam engine portrayed by a series of working 
models of great early steam engines which may be activated by each 
visitor at the push of a button. Also on display are the beginnings 
and indeed the full development of the internal combustion engine 
and some of the early devices of Edison and others that show the rise 
of the use of electricity as a power source. A permanent display of 
the role of atomic energy in peacetime activity and defense is not yet 
open to the public, but a number of temporary exhibits on this subject 
have been presented from time to time by the Smithsonian. 

18. FARM MACHINERY 

In the Hall of Farm IMachinery are shown a selection of the imple- 
ments and devices which man has contrived to further his basic work 
of securing food from the soil. The emphasis is upon the history of 
American agricultural implements. Here, for example, the visitor 
may trace the evolution of the plow as used by North American settlers 
from Europe from the earliest days to the present. One interesting 
phase of this development shows how President Thomas Jefferson 
used his mathematical and scientific knowledge to make one of the first 
real improvements in the plow in several thousand years. Also shown 
are some of the "historic firsts" of the more complex agriculture 
machineiy which has made America famous throughout the world. 
These exhibits show how the development and use of labor-saving 
machinery for planting, cultivating, and harvesting crops helped solve 
the problems of feeding America's rapidly growing urban population 
after the Civil War. 

19. PRINTING ARTS 

Another specialized group of industrial devices is shown in the new 
Printing Arts Hall. The gradual development of pictorial and text 
printing is illustrated in these displays. The famous printing press 
used by Benjamin Franklin in London in 1726 is here. The emphasis 



12 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

is upon the various processes by means of whicli printing blocks and 
later movable type have been used down through the centuries, to- 
gether with the teclmiques and tools involved. Here is also demon- 
strated how black-and-white and color pictorial prints have been 
made, especially in recent years. Examples are shown of the work of 
some of the great printmakers of the world, including such outstand- 
ing artists as Rembrandt and Diirer. In the study collections of this 
division are examples of the work of many of the great printmakers 
of the last six centuries. 

20. MILITARY HISTORY 

The Military History Hall is divided into two large sections, one 
devoted to the United States Navy and Marine Corps, the other to the 
United States Army. Elaborate exhibits of the development of avia- 
tion, both civil and military, are shown in the National Air Museum to 
which reference is made below. The Naval-Marine Corps Hall shows 
the evolution, by the use of models and contemporary prints and charts, 
of the Navy from the first commissioned vessel of 1775 to the atomic 
submarine. Many portraits and memorabilia of the great Naval and 
Marine leaders of our Nation are exhibited. One who studies the ex- 
hibits of this hall can clearly see how the rise of the modern Navy is 
related to the evolution of sources of power for naval vessels as 
illustrated in the nearby Power Hall. Here also can be seen the ves- 
sels and equipment that led to the emergence of the sea strength of 
the United States from the small sailing craft of the colonies to the 
present Navy of this country as a preeminent world power. The 
change from wooden to steel warships and the development of modern 
naval armaments are portrayed. Also shown are a few selected ex- 
amples of objects recovered from the ocean floor by the use of the new 
techniques of marine archeology. 

The hall showing the rise of the American Army begins with ex- 
amples of uniforms and equipment of colonial troops. At the entrance 
is placed the actual field uniform worn by General Washington when 
he was conducting his great campaigns of the War of Independence. 
The visitor can also follow the evolution of American arms and equip- 
ment down through the years. Attention is given to present-day 
uniforms and the arms used in each of the great wars of the Nation. 
Outstanding objects here include a beautiful bronze cannon brought 
to the colonies by General Lafayette, uniforms of both Union and 
Confederate officers of the Civil War, General Sheridan's horse on 
which he made his famous ride, a complete display of modern military 
missiles, including those with atomic warheads, and a very complete 
display of American military heraldry including the battle ribbons 
of all the Nation's great Army regiments. 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 13 

21. NUMISMATICS 

The Numismatic Hall, or Hall of Monetary History and Medallic 
Art, can best be described as an amazingly complete world museum 
of the history of money. Here are shown real examples of the first 
coins ever minted in ancient Greece. Following the case that shows 
these very early coins are others in which a visitor can see illustrated 
the spread of coinage throughout the ancient Mediterranean world. 
Also shown are means of exchange other than coins and samples of 
the gold and other monetary forms of non-European nations. The 
special feature is the great collection of colonial American and United 
States coins and paper money for which the Smithsonian has long 
been famous. The newly opened presentation of coins has a com- 
pletely novel objective, for it is organized to teach the history and 
geography of the world in relation to money. Many of the out- 
standing gold pieces from the Institution's great Straub collection 
are on display, as are also coins of the recently presented Du Pont 
collection of Kussian money. Many examples in the well-lighted 
cases are from the United States mint collection, which is now part 
of the over-all Smithsonian collection. Examples of almost every 
coin ever struck in America are thus on view or in the study collec- 
tions of the Institution. The visitor to this hall who comes to it with 
intellectual curiosity will learn not only the fascinating story of 
coinage, sculpture, design, and medallic art through the centuries, 
but also much else that is important in the history of economics and 
even of civilization itself. 

22. HALL OF HEALTH 

Years ago, national representatives of American medical organ- 
izations urged the Smithsonian to establish a hall of health. For 
many years the original hall was open, but gradually it became shabby 
and outmoded. The modern Health Hall at the Smithsonian, on the 
contrary, presents the basic anatomical and physiological processes 
of human beings as they are known to modern science. The hall 
shows something of the mechanisms by means of which electronics 
and other technologies assist the physician in measuring and record- 
ing the human heart beat, blood pressure, respiration, visual and 
auditory acuity, and the like. Here the visitor can watch his own 
heart beat on a cathode-ray tube by holding a receiver on his chest. 
In this hall is located a fascinating transparent human figure which 
by a series of lights and a concomitant electronically reproduced 
lecture shows in a vivid and accurate way the principal organ systems 
of the human frame and how they work. 



14 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

23. HISTORY OF MEDICINE, DENTISTRY, AND PHARMACY 

Immediately adjacent to the Hall of Health is the Hall of Medi- 
cine, Dentistry, and Pharmacy, where the evolution of many of the 
devices used by physicians, surgeons, dentists, and pharmacists down 
through the years is shown. The development of such now common 
aids to the physician's practice as the stethoscope and blood-pressure 
instrument is traced. Some of the more elaborate devices of modern 
medicine and surgery such as the artificial heart and the X-ray ap- 
paratus are also exhibited. Here too is displayed a complete medieval 
pharmacy with an almost unique and very beautiful collection of early 
pharmaceutical ceramics and glassware. 

THE NATIONAL AIR MUSEUM 

Of all the notable renovations of exhibit presentations at the 
Smitlisonian, none has been more outstanding than the recent trans- 
formation of the small temporary Air and Space Building. The 
National Air Museum, a special imit of the Institution, has in its 
custody probably the world's greatest collection of aircraft and 
instruments and objects related to aviation. Nearly all the great 
treasures of this museum are in storage. Some of its outstanding 
possessions, such as the first Wright plane and the Lindbergh plane, are 
on display in the Arts and Industries Building. The main museum 
displays of aviation, however, are now shown in a building built as 
a temporary test center for Liberty Motors during the First World 
War. This galvanized-iron building on Independence Avenue behind 
the original Smithsonian Building has been renovated in such a way 
that the new exhibits installed in it can be moved without loss to a 
new and permanent building when such a building is constructed. 
Even the present "temporary" structure in its renovated form gives a 
vivid demonstration of the public's interest in aviation. This small, 
far from commodious structure has now become one of the great 
attractions of Washington. During the first 12 months after this 
renovated building was opened, more than a million visitors sought 
it out and studied its exhibits portraying man's conquest of air and 
space. Here are shown a few examples from the Smithsonian's pos- 
sibly unrivaled collection of kites. The basic principles of the aerial 
navigation of birds as studied by the fii*st aviation scientists are 
displayed. In the center of the building are a few of the actual early 
aircraft of peculiar significance in the history of aviation. Models of 
hundreds of types of balloons and heavier-than-air craft are shown. 
Here also are presented many early and important types of aircraft 
engines. One of the notable exhibits is a collection of the great early 
liquid-fuel rockets made by America's, and indeed the world's, pioneer 
scientific student of devices for the exploration of space, the late 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 15 

Dr. Eobert H. Goddard. The unique specimens of Goddard's work 
•were given to the Smithsonian by Mrs. Goddard in tribute to the 
early support that the Smithsonian gave to Dr. Goddard's scientific 
"u-ork. Other more modern space-flight specimens on display are 
the first recovered American Space Flight nose cone, the Able-Baker 
space flight apparatus, the first recovered orbiting satellite (Discoverer 
XIII), and many other "firsts" of modern air-space science. 

Immediately outside this temporary building are displayed not 
models, but actual examples, of present-day rockets, including a 
United States Army Jupiter C, a United States Navy Vanguard, a 
Navy Polaris, and an Air Force Atlas. 

In the paragraphs above reference has been made to the present 
progress of the renovation of exhibits at the Smithsonian. Mention 
could also be made to improvements and better lighting used in the 
display of the outstanding collections of oriental objects and paintings 
at the Smithsonian's Freer Gallery of Art. The National Collection 
of Fine Arts of the Smithsonian has also improved some of its tem- 
porary galleries. Notable new installations, including rooms for the 
decorative arts, have been opened at the National Gallery of Art, which 
is a bureau of the Smithsonian Institution. 

The summaries that have been presented in the immediately pre- 
ceding pages have been given to bring the reader of this report up 
to date in regard to one aspect of the work of the Smithsonian. This 
is a report of progress. It suggests something of the accomplishments 
of the past 8 years in transforming the formerly old and then sadly 
outmoded museum presentations at the Smithsonian Institution into 
modern effective and educational exhibits. During 1953, the year in 
which this work began, 3,429,429 visitors came to the Smithsonian 
buildings on the Mall. In the year covered by the present report, as 
noted elsewhere, 7,103,474 came to these same buildings. There can 
be no doubt that the renovations summarized here have met warm 
public acceptance. 

This whole great program of renovation has been possible only 
because of the enthusiastic support that has been given to it by the 
Board of Regents of the Institution, by the Congress, and by the 
labors of the Smithsonian's devoted and skillful staff of curators and 
exhibit workers. Because of this work it is now beginning to be 
possible for many millions of American citizens and for foreign visitors 
also to see the great national treasures of the Smithsonian in an 
orderly and also in an educationally significant way. 

Other new halls are in the process of development and will be open 
to the public as soon as the complex work of constructing them can 
be completed by the small staff of the Institution. These other new 
haUs include a Hall of Dinosaurs, a Hall of Pleistocene Mammals, a 



16 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

Comparative Anatomy Hall, a large Hall of Botany and Wood, a Hall 
of Ocean Life, a Hall of Reptiles and Fishes, a Hall of Man em- 
phasizing the methods and accomplishments of physical anthropology, 
and a Classical Archeology Hall, a Peoples of Asia and Africa Hall, 
a Peoples of the Pacific Hall, a second North American Archeology 
Hall, a second Geology Plall, and a Hall of Insects of the World. 
Work on still other major displays of collections already in storage 
at the Smithsonian is underway so that they may be presented in the 
new Museum of History and Technology Building when this structure 
is completed. 

In introducing the present report, reference was made to the em- 
phasis given by James Smithson and Joseph Henry to the twin ideas 
of the diffusion and the increase of knowledge among men. Although 
the museum displays described in the foregoing pages constitute an 
important means of diffusing scientific and teclinological knowledge, 
the Institution employs many other means to promote this diffusion. 
One of these has traditionally been publications, and during the year 
represented by this report the publication program was advanced by 
97 titles issued under Smithsonian imprint; and nearly 775,000 copies 
of Smithsonian publications were distributed, an increase of about 18 
percent over the previous year. Details of these publications are 
given on later pages of the report. It may be pointed out that the 
publications of the Smithsonian are known worldwide, and the "ex- 
change publications" that come without charge to Washington in 
response to Smithsonian publications from scientific research organi- 
zations all over the world play an important role in maintaining in 
America a complete library of scientific research. Such a collection 
is basic in modern American life, not only in national defense but 
also in the development of the cultural and industrial life of the 
country. 

It is difficult in brief compass to describe the research activities of 
the Institution. The reader of this report, however, is especially 
urged to note the pages that present the results of research studies 
conducted during the current year by the Institution. The Astro- 
physical Observatory of the Smithsonian, for example, is concerned 
in the development of the science that is basic to a modern understand- 
ing of astronomy and space. Only a few years ago research in astro- 
physics seemed interesting but highly theoretical. Today the 
significance of investigations in this area for our national defense and 
welfare is recognized everywhere. Research investigations are also 
conducted in almost all the other specialized divisions of the Institu- 
tion as reported on later pages of this report. Special emphasis should 
be given to the fact that it is the research activities of the members 
of the Institution's scientific staff that have established its worldwide 
reputation and won for it academic distinction. 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 17 

THE ESTABLISHMENT 
The Smithsonian Institution was created by act of Congress in 
1846, in accordance with the terms of the will of James Smithson, of 
England, who in 1826 bequeathed his property to the United States 
of America "to found at Washington, under the name of the Smith- 
sonian Institution, an establislmient for the increase and diffusion of 
knowledge among men." In receiving the property and accepting 
the trust, Congress determined that the Federal Government was 
without authority to administer the trust directly, and, therefore, 
constituted an "establisliment," whose statutory members are "the 
President, the Vice President, the Cliief Justice, and the heads of the 
executive departments." 

THE BOARD OF REGENTS 
The membersliip of the Board of Regents remained unchanged 
except for the new Vice President of the United States, the Honorable 
Lyndon B. Jolmson, who became an ex-officio member to succeed the 
Honorable Eichard M. Nixon on Januar^^ 20, 1961. The roll of 
Regents at the close of the fiscal year was as follows: Chief Justice 
of the United States Earl Warren, Chancellor; Vice President Lyndon 

B. Jolmson ; members from the Senate : Clinton P. Anderson, J. Wil- 
liam Fulbright, Leverett Saltonstall; members from the House of 
Representatives : Frank T. Bow, Overton Brooks, Clarence Cannon ; 
citizen members : John Nicholas Brown, Arthur H. Compton, Robert 
V. Fleming, Crawford H. Greenewalt, Caryl P. Haskins, and Jerome 

C. Hunsaker. 

The usual informal dinner meeting, preceding the annual meeting, 
was held on January 12, 1961, in the main hall of the Smithsonian 
Building amid exliibits showmg the most recent developments in the 
work of the Smithsonian bureaus. Col. Howard I. Chapelle spoke 
on "Description of the American Watercraft Collection"; Dr. Charles 
O. Handley, Jr., on "Mammal Survey of Panama"; Dr. T. Dale 
Stewart on "Reconstructing Heads of Ancient Man"; Dr. Harold P. 
Stem on "Holaisai in the Freer Gallery of Art"; and Dr. Fred L. 
Wliipple on "Dust in Space." 

The annual meeting was held on Januaiy 13, 1961. The Secretary 
presented his published annual report on the activities of the Institu- 
tion. The Chairman of the Executive and Permanent Committees of 
the Board, Dr. Robert V. Fleming, gave the financial report for the 
fiscal year ended June 30, 1960. 

The Regents participated in the ceremonies for the laying of the 
cornerstone of the Museum of History and Technology on the after- 
noon of May 19, 1961, and met at 5 o'clock that day in the Regents 
Room for the spring meeting of the Board. 



18 



ANNTJAL REPORT SAHTHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 



FINANCES 

A statement on finances, dealing particularly with Smithsonian 
private funds, will be found in the report of the executive committee 
of the Board of Kegents, page 221. Funds appropriated to the Insti- 
tution for its regular operations for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1961, 
totaled $8,114,000. Besides tliis direct appropriation, the Institution 
received funds by transfer from other Government agencies as follows: 
From the District of Columbia for the National Zoological Park, 
$1,304,000; from the National Park Service, Department of the In- 
terior, for the River Basin Surveys, $123,895. 

VISITORS 

Visitors to the Smithsonian group of bmldings on the Mall reached 
a total of 7,103,474, an all-time high and 608,844 more than the pre- 
vious year. April 1901 was the month of largest attendance, with 
1,082,827; August 1960 second, with 1,051,733; May 1961 third, with 
990,230. Table 1 gives a summary of the attendance records for the 
five buildings; table 2, groups of school children. These figures, 
when added to the 1.032,340 recorded at the National Gallery of Art 
bring the year's total number of visitors at the Institution buildings 
on the Mali to 8,135,814. 



Table 1. — Visitors to certain Smithsonian buildings during the year ended 

June SO, 1961 



(1) 

Year and month 


(2) 

Smithsonian 
Building 


(3) 

Arts and 
Industries 
Building 


(4) 

Natural 
History 
Building 


(5) 

Air and 

Space 

Building 


(6) 

Freer 
Building 


(7) 
Total 


1960 
July 


151,286 
178, 859 
55, 579 
50, 835 
50, 864 
22, 786 

34, 523 
24, 812 

57, 184 
154, 793 
116,978 
126, 027 


385, 718 
365, 810 
153, 369 
130, 833 
110,213 
58, 899 

67, 348 
70, 596 
157, 668 
483, 752 
457, 832 
470, 333 


269, 451 
316, 074 
103, 240 
112,431 
117,335 
53, 439 

73, 588 
59, 541 
135, 663 
283, 071 
286, 067 
238, 073 


135, 672 
171,414 
58, 073 
47, 384 
49, 581 
23, 703 

25, 023 

29, 469 

54, 715 

144, 790 

115,758 

132, 276 


16, 021 

19, 576 

12,011 

8,079 

8,088 

4,608 

5,419 

4,428 

8,645 

16, 421 

13, 595 

13, 855 


958, 148 


August 

September 

October 

November 

December 

1961 

January 

February 

March 

April. ._ __ 


1, 051, 733 
382, 272 
349, 562 
336, 081 
163, 435 

205, 901 

188, 846 

413, 875 

1 082 827 


May 


990 230 


June 


980 564 






Total 


1, 024, 526 


2, 912, 371 


2, 047, 973 


987, 858 


130, 746 


7, 103, 474 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 



19 



Table 2. — Groups of school children visiting the Smithsonian Institution during the 

year ended June 30, 1961 



Year and month 


Number of 
children 


Number of 
groups 


Year and month 


Number of 
children 


Number of 
groups 


1960 

July.. _-_ 


6,233 
3,896 
2,048 
13,061 
21,995 
8,238 


199 
157 

82 
362 
579 
254 


mi 

January 

February 

March 


7,804 
12, 510 
41, 558 
85, 084 
115, 996 
44, 650 


223 


August.- 


365 


September 

October 

November 


1, 004 


April ,__ 

May. 


1,817 
2,623 


Decemiber 


June 


1,042 




Total 






363, 073 


8,707 



Report on the United States 
National Museum 

Sm : I have the honor to submit the following report on the condi- 
tion and operations of the U.S. National Museum for the fiscal year 
ended June 30, 1961 : 

COLLECTIONS 

During the year 971,150 specimens were added to the national col- 
lections and distributed among the eight departments as follows: 
Anthropology, 19,764; zoology, 369,701; botany, 103,160; geology, 
229,676 ; science and technology, 4,231 ; arts and manufactures, 5,521 ; 
civil history, 237,323; and armed forces history, 1,774. The total 
nimiber is less than half as many as recorded last year, when an extraor- 
dinary number of postage stamps, approaching a million and a half, 
was accessioned. Most of this year's accessions were acquired as gifts 
from individuals or as transfers from Govermnent departments and 
agencies. The complete report on the Museum, published as a sep- 
arate docimaent, includes a detailed list of the year's acquisitions, of 
which the more important are summarized below. Catalog entries 
in all departments now total 54,963,805. 

Anthropology. — Through an arrangement with Dr. Ralph S. 
Solecki, of Columbia University, whereby the Smithsonian Institution 
sponsored his 1957 expedition to Iraq, the division of archeology re- 
ceived 8,770 artifacts from Shanidar cave and neighboring sites. In 
addition to a few specimens from the historic and protohistoric cul- 
tural periods, the representation is mainly from the proto-Neolithic 
and the Mousterian, the whole indicating a time span of around 65,000 
years. The division also received, by transfer from the River Basin 
Surveys, 5,153 artifacts collected at numerous prehistoric sites in 
South Dakota and Wyoming. Mrs. Virginia M. Pollak added to her 
earlier generous donations a wooden ibis from the Ptolemaic-Roman 
period of Egypt. 

Of special interest among the new accessions in the division of 
ethnology are two rare Chinese scrolls written in the Chinese and 
Manchurian languages and representing awards in the years 1753 and 
1868 for loyal services to the Chinese Government, donated by Dr. 
David C. Graham, honorary research associate in biology. A late 
19th century Chinese four-panel lacquer screen was received from the 
estate of John T. Owens. The decoration thereon, showing four 
20 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 21 

birds in a natural setting, has been executed by inlaying mother-of- 
pearl, rose quartz, white and stained ivory, and semiprecious stones. 
A group of 54 ethnological specimens of Eskimo manufacture, col- 
lected in Alaska in 1908, was presented by Dr. F. F. Fellows, West 
Linn, Oreg. A representative collection of 104 smoking pipes, mainly 
from the Near East, India, China, and Japan, was given by Dr. Leo 
Stoor, of Cleveland. A good collection of 84 Micronesian objects 
was obtained in exchange from John H. Brandt, of New York City. 
Among the rare specimens in this group is a type of necklace from 
Yap no longer obtainable from the natives. 

The division of physical anthropology added to its collection of 
American Negro skeletal remains 14 skulls and a few miscellaneous 
bones recovered by the District of Columbia coroner. Dr. A. Ma- 
gruder MacDonald, when an abandoned cemetery near the Calvert 
Street bridge in Washington was exposed in the course of building 
operations. The Zoller Laboratory of Dental Anthropology of the 
University of Chicago presented the division with 11 standard models 
for classifying crown characters of human deciduous teeth. The mod- 
els, accompanied by an explanatory manual, were prepared by Dr. 
Kazuro Hanihara, of Sapporo Medical College, Japan, and are based 
on a series of 600 subjects representing various racial groups. 

Zoology. — The division of mammals acquired a total of 4,076 speci- 
mens, comprising 42 accessions. Dr. Robert E. Kuntz forwarded 
nearly 1,000 specimens from Formosa and 400 from North Borneo, 
collected by field parties of U.S. Naval Medical Research Unit No. 2. 
Bernard R. Feinstein, of the Musemn staff, working in cooperation 
with the Army Medical Research and Development Command and 
the Bernice P. Bishop Museum, sent 600 mammals from South Viet- 
nam. Dr. Robert Traub forwarded 121 additional specimens col- 
lected by the U.S. Army Medical Research Unit. Capt. Vernon J. 
Tipton sent 273 manmaals collected in Panama by the Army Preven- 
tive Medicine Division. E. V. Komarek presented 83 mammals, 
mostly carnivores, from the southeastern States, as well as an addi- 
tional lot of 53 small mammals from the Southwest ; Russell E. Mum- 
ford and Ralph D. Kirkpatrick each sent additional mammals from 
Indiana; and the Virginia State Department of Health, through 
J. T. Banks and T. M. MuUman, presented 44 mammals collected in 
the course of epidemiological surveys. 

The same sources that were responsible for several of the mammal 
collections referred to above contributed some important accessions 
for the division of birds. From the lowlands of North Borneo, a 
series of 512 bird skins was received from the U.S. Naval Medical 
Research Unit No. 2. A total of 565 bird skins, 6 alcoholic specimens, 
and 20 skeletons from South Vietnam resulted from the activities spon- 
sored by the Bernice P. Bishop Museum and the Army Medical 



22 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

Eesearch and Development Command. Received by transfer from 
the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service were 1,411 bird skins and 6 al- 
coholic specimens from Formosa. 

Noteworthy collections received in the division of reptiles and 
amphibians include 19 salamanders from Alabama, donated by Leslie 
Uubricht. A fine series of Virginia amphibians, collected by the late 
Walter B. Newman, was received as a gift from his mother, Mrs. 
Helen B. Newman. By transfer from the U.S. Army Medical Re- 
search Unit, tlirough Lt. Col. H. J. Baker, came 29 snakes, mostly 
from Selangor, an area from which the Musemn has had few speci- 
mens. A series of 28 Venezuelan reptiles and amphibians collected 
for the Museum by Dr. C. O. Handley, Jr., and D. L. Rhymer contains 
some frogs that are valuable for comparison with Colombian material 
now being studied. Another valuable addition to the amphibian 
group from Thailand are 39 specimens collected in South Vietnam 
by Bernard R. Feinstein. 

The division of fishes accessioned a large collection consisting of 
2,702 specimens from the Fourth Smithsonian-Bredin Caribbean Ex- 
pedition. The U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, through Harvey R. 
BuUis, Jr., and Daniel M. Cohen, contributed another large important 
collection, totaling 1,114 fishes. Dr. Eugenie Clark, of the Cape Haze 
Marine Laboratory of Florida, and Dr. H. Steinitz, of the Hebrew 
University of Jerusalem, donated 778 marine fishes collected in the 
Red Sea by Dr. Clark ; these specimens are very valuable because the 
Red Sea area is the type locality of numerous kinds of fishes, some of 
which are endemic. Dr. Hurst Shoemaker, of the American Univer- 
sity of Beirut, donated 361 fishes from Lebanon. Among the valuable 
collections received for identification were 453 Formosan fishes 
through Dr. Robert E. Kuntz, U.S. Naval Medical Research Unit 
No. 2, and 728 specimens from Africa and South America from Dr. 
Herbert R. Axelrod, of Tropical Fish Hobbyist Publications, Jersey 
City. 

A very valuable accession acquired by the division of insects is the 
Jolm C. Lutz collection of Hemiptera, consisting of 87,371 specimens. 
Particularly rich in Neotropical species, this assemblage contains 668 
types of various kinds, including holotypes of 15 species. Another 
very important accession is the N. Baranov collection of Palaearctic 
tachnid flies, consisting of 4,611 specimens representing 305 genera, 
68 of which are new to the collections, and 812 species, of which 499 
were not previously available for study in the Museum. Other notable 
contributions include : 3,306 miscellaneous specimens from North and 
South Ajnerica, donated by Dr. Charles P. Alexander; 2,915 Pla- 
waiian insects presented by A. J. Ford, of Honolulu ; 2,938 miscella- 
neous specimens from Pakistan, contributed by Dr. J. Maldonado 
Capriles; 2,127 Lepidoptera from Wisconsin given by William E. 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 23 

Sieker; 7,848 miscellaneous insects from various parts of the world 
given by N. L. PI. Krauss; and 1,128 specimens of Hymenoptera do- 
nated by Dr. Karl V. Krombein. 

Contributing materially to another record-breaking year for acces- 
sions in the division of marine invertebrates were 54,480 amphipod 
crustaceans, including 15 type specimens, received from the Scripps 
Institution of Oceanography, University of California. From the 
Universitetets Zoologiske Museum, Copenhagen, through Dr. H. 
Vols0e, were received 9 deep-sea invertebrates from the world-re- 
nowned Danish Deepsea Expedition of the Galathea^ including para- 
types of unusual holothurians, starfishes, polychaete worms, and sea 
anemones. The Rijksmuseum van Natuurlijke Historie, Leiden, The 
Netherlands, through Dr. L. B. Holthuis, donated 402 crustaceans, 
including two scyllarid lobsters and an authoritatively identified set 
of European isopods. A collection of 5,528 miscellaneous Antarctic 
invertebrates from Operation Deep Freeze IV was received from 
Stanford University, through Dr. Donald E. Wohlschlag. Another 
large series of 5,256 miscellaneous marine invertebrates was collected 
for the Museum in Bermuda by Mrs. LaNelle W. Peterson. 

The most important accession in the division of moUusks consisted 
of 12,200 specimens collected at Jaluit Atoll, in the southern Marshall 
Islands, by Dr. Harald A. Eelider. The Fourth Smithsonian-Bredin 
Caribbean Expedition added 6,000 moUusks from Yucatan. Dr. 
Wendell P. Woodring collected 485 specimens of marine moUusks on 
the Atlantic coast of Panama. From the Institute of Oceanology of 
the Academy of Sciences of the USSR, through Dr. E. A. Filatova, 
came 607 specimens of fresh-water mollusks from the USSR. 

Botany. — One of the most important accessions in the department 
was the Cladonia collection of the late Alexander W. Evans, compris- 
ing 39,204 specimens, received in exchange from the Osborn Botani- 
cal Laboratory of Yale University. Unusually fine specimens of 
Rhododendron and Primula, numbering 2,895, collected in Asia by 
George Forest, were received in exchange from the Royal Botanic 
Garden, Edinburgh, Scotland. Others, also in exchange, were : 7,786 
specimens of Asia and South America, mostly significant historical 
collections, from the Museum National d'Histoire Naturelle, Paris; 
1,287 plants of Indonesia from the Herbarium Bogoriense; and 527 
photographs of plants in the Pliilip Miller Herbarium from the 
Bailey Hortorium, Ithaca, N. Y. 

The American Musuem of Natural History forwarded 15,780 speci- 
mens collected by L. J. Brass on the Sixth Archbold Expedition to 
New Guinea. The University of California sent 497 specimens of 
South American plants collected by W. Eyerdam on the Sixth Botani- 
cal Garden Expedition to the Andes, in return for identifications. 

625325—62 3 



24 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

Dr. Mason E. Hale and Dr. Thomas R. Soderstrom collected 3,841 
specimens in Mexico, consisting mostly of lichens, and Dr. Jolin E. 
Ebinger collected 5,086 specimens in Panama, primarily on Barro 
Colorado Island. There were transferred from the U.S. Geological 
Survey, Department of the Interior, 2,650 Alaskan plants collected 
by Lloyd Spetzman. 

The division of woods received in exchange from the Yale School 
of Forestry 474 wood samples collected by Dr. Jolin J. Wurdack and 
L. S. Adderley in Venezuela; 966 slides of Malayan woods from the 
Forest Research Institute, Kepong, Selangor, Malaya, through P. K. 
Balan Menon; 314 wood samples with voucher herbarium specimens 
collected in Sarawak, from the University of Oxford, England, and 
1,784 microscope slides of pollen from the Rancho Santa Ana Botanic 
Garden. Dr. William L. Stern presented 609 samples of wood he 
collected in Panama. 

Geology. — ^Among the noteworthy gifts received in the division of 
mineralogy and petrology are a very fine cubic crystal of diamond, 
weighing 82.5 carats, from Sierra Leone, and a three-quarter carat 
diamond crystal in matrix from the Bulfontein Mine, South Africa, 
both presented by Dorus Van Itallie ; a large group of wulf enite crys- 
tals from the Glove Mine, near Amado, Ariz., and a gem-quality twin 
crystal of chrysoberyl from Minas Gerais, Brazil, both donated by 
Bernard T. Rocca, Sr. 

Important additions to the mineral collection received in exchange 
are becquerelite and fourmarierite from Republic of the Congo (Leo- 
poldville) ; raspite, Australia ; cronstedtite, Hungary ; and benitoite, 
California. Newly described species received in exchange are schoder- 
ite and metaschoderite, Nevada ; masuyite and lueskite. Republic of the 
Congo (Leopoldville) ; yavapaite, Arizona; and wolsendorfite, 
Germany. 

The Roebling collection was increased by 1,625 specimens by pur- 
chase from the Roebling fund or by exchange. Among the most im- 
portant of these are a collection of 40 specimens of wulfenite, each of 
exceptional quality, from Arizona; several adularia crystals from 
Switzerland ; a well-formed cube of uraninite four inches on an edge, 
from Morogoro, Tanganyika ; and a very fine large gadolinite crystal 
from southern Norway. Several specimens of outstanding quality 
were added to the Canfield collection by purchase. These include a 
90-carat peridot crystal from Zebirget, Egypt; a very large sphene 
crystal from Baja California; bournonite, England; and apatite, 
Italy. 

Gems obtained for the Isaac Lea collection by purchase from the 
Chamberlain fund include a pink scapolite from Burma weighing 
12.33 carats; a blue topaz from Texas weighing 146.35 carats: a 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 25 

peridot from Arizona ■weighing 22.9 carats; and a 9.53 carat yellow 
tourmaline from Brazil. 

During the past year the meteorite collection continued its growth. 
Seven meteorites new to the collection were obtained : Abee, Canada ; 
Bruderheim, Canada; Kandahar, Afghanistan; Treysa, Germany; 
Utzenstorf, Switzerland; Aroos, Kussia; and Moab, United States. 

The division of invertebrate paleontology and paleobotany acquired 
some important fossil collections. The famous Greene collection, com- 
prising 110,000 specimens and consisting mostly of Devonian corals, 
was given by the American Museum of Natural History. A bequest 
was received from the estate of Mrs. Ruby F. Eenf ro of approximately 
50,000 specimens of Pennsylvanian, Permian, and Cretaceous fossils 
of north-central Texas and a small collection from Europe. Other 
gifts include 1,000 Devonian invertebrate fossils from the upper Dun- 
dee limestone and the Silica shale, Michigan and Ohio, donated by 
Dr. Erie G. Kauffman, 36 fossil crabs from the Pliocene of Virginia, 
from George Webb ; and 167 smaller Foraminifera from the IMissis- 
sippian of southern Indiana, Kentucky, Tennessee, and Oliio, pre- 
sented by Dr. J. E. Conkin. 

Fieldwork made possible from funds of the Walcott bequest yielded 
600 echinoids from the Paleocene, collected in Georgia by Dr. Porter 
M. Kier in collaboration with Dr. Druid Wilson of the U.S. Geological 
Survey ; 2,500 Upper Cretaceous, Paleocene, and Eocene invertebrate 
fossils collected in Maryland by Dr. Erie G. Kauffman, with Dr. 
Norman F. Sohl and Dr. Harlan R. Bergquist of the U.S. Geological 
Survey; and 1,000 Pennsylvanian fossils collected in Texas by Dr. 
G. Arthur Cooper and Dr. Richard E. Grant. 

The division of vertebrate paleontology received an outstanding ac- 
cession of about 202 specimens representing fish, amphibians, and 
reptiles from various Permian formations in Texas and Kansas. These 
specimens were collected by Dr. Nicholas Hotton III and John E. 
Gassaway, through funds provided by the Walcott bequest. Particu- 
lar mention is made of a nearly complete and articulated skeleton of 
the small predaceous amphibian AcrojJlous vorax taken from the Per- 
mian Speiser formation of Kansas, and a large part of a skeleton 
of the primitive cotylosaurian reptile Lahidosauras sp., from the 
Permian Arroyo formation of Texas. The jaws, part of the skull, 
and several vertebrae of a very large baleen whale were collected 
from the Miocene Yorktown formation near Hampton, Va., by Dr. 
Nicholas Hotton III, Kurt F. Hauschildt, and Dr. Frank C. Whit- 
more, Jr. Dr. Hotton, assisted by William E. Moran, a former em- 
ployee, also secured a partial skeleton, including the greater part of 
a skull, of a rare embolomerous amphibian from the Mauch Chunk 
formation of Mississippian age. 



26 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

Science artd technology. — ^Two astrolabes of unusual interest were 
acquired by tlie division of physical sciences. Through the generosity 
of Lessing J. Rosenwald a very fine medieval English instrument 
was received, having zoomorphic star pointers as a notable feature. 
Although undated and unsigned, it is dated by the calendar scale about 
1325. A second astrolabe received this year is an Hispano-Moorish 
instrument by Muhammad ibn-Sahli. This specimen exhibits a mix- 
ture of Islamic, Christian, and Jewish characteristics in its decoration. 

Two major refrigerating machines for exhibit in the new hall of 
power machinery were received this year : the first commercially suc- 
cessful centrifugal refrigeration compressor from Carrier Corpora- 
tion, which was generously restored by the Frick Company, and a 
typical steam-driven reciprocating ammonia compressor from Clifton 
Springs Sanitarium and Clinic. 

About 3,000 large original tracings, on cloth, of heavy mining ma- 
chinery for the period 1875-1902 were received from Calumet and 
Hecla, Inc. This valuable collection representing an important part 
of the creative work of Erasmus D. Leavitt (1836-1916), a widely 
known and highly honored mechanical engineer, was located by Robert 
M. Vogel, associate curator. The arcliival collections of the division 
have grown, largely through the efforts of Mr. Vogel, to a major 
repository of source materials in the history of mechanical and civil 
engineering. 

Among the outstanding gifts in the section of marine transporta- 
tion is a model of the brigantine sloop Ferret. This Admiralty model 
is a gift of Lansdell K. Christie. The Grace Line, Inc., presented a 
model of the passenger liner Santa Paula. In the section of land 
transportation a colonial chaise, including funds for its restoration, 
was received from Stewart Huston. A collection of fire-fighting ap- 
paratus was donated by Dr. Karl B. Bretzfelder. The Baltimore & 
Ohio Railroad Co. gave a collection of glass plate negatives and car 
drawings, through L. W. Sagle. 

The division of electricity has been particularly fortunate in ob- 
taining the Palmer collection of early electrical equipment from 
Princeton University. The collection is an important one and pro- 
vided most of the illustrations in M. Maclaren's Rise of the Electrical 
Industry during the 19th Century. It was exceptionally rich in 
examples of laboratory meters, telephonic apparatus, power switch- 
gear, and incandescent lamps. Two other large groups of specimens 
were also acquired : one from Brown University, consisting primarily 
of motors and generators, together with some interesting wireless 
telegraph equipment, and one from the Weston Instrument Company, 
composed of early commercial meters. 

The acquisition of a David Rittenhouse half-size tall clock, which 
has an astronomical type dial, enhanced the collection of timekeeping 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 27 

instruments. This clock is one of Rittenhouse's earlier works, and 
it is probably the product of his own hands. Several other outstand- 
ing clocks were also obtained, including one by Gideon Eoberts, who 
introduced mass-produced wooden clocks. 

Among the accessions in medical sciences is a significant collection 
of dental instruments, received from the S. S. White Dental Manu- 
facturing Company. The New England Hospital for Women and 
Children Nurses Alumnae Association donated an early uniform worn 
by Linda Eichards and other personal memorabilia, including a 
Tolles microscope. Miss Richards was the first woman to receive a 
diploma from any American training school for nurses. A number 
of medals, diplomas, and other memorabilia have been received from 
the estate of Abraham Flexner, in accordance with his bequest. 

Arts and manufactures. — A significant acquisition in the division 
of textiles is a collection of over 100 19th-century sewing machines 
presented by the Singer Manufacturing Company, through Bogart F. 
Thompson. Added to the fine group already accumulated, these give 
the Museum the world's leading historical collection of sewing ma- 
chines. An outstanding collection of over 200 sewing birds, hemming 
clamps, and related needlework accessories was donated by Miss 
Mabel Whiteley. Of special interest also is the receipt of a collection 
of lace and embroidery from Mrs. Herbert Arthur May. The laces 
include examples of Chantilly, Brussels, Maltese, and Venetian 
needlepoint. 

Several interesting items were acquired by the division of ceramics 
and glass. A rare Castleford urn with painted decorations was pre- 
sented by Mrs. George H. Myers. Mrs. William A. Sutherland do- 
nated 28 pieces of porcelain, including an English Lowestoft teapot, 
a CMna trade porcelain fruit basket, Sevres tea set, and a Liverpool 
coffee pot, all of the 18th century. R. Wliornton Wilson gave a 
unique piece of Americana, consisting of an Oriental Lowestoft cider 
jug and cover, with painted decorations including the inscription 
"Jefferson and Liberty," surmounted by an American eagle and 17 
stars. 

A fine group of chiaroscuro woodcuts was acquired by the division 
of graphic arts. The group included two examples by the important 
early 16th-century pioneer, Antonio da Trento, St. Matthew and The 
Martyrdom of St, Paul and St. Peter; The Descent f7'om the Cross, 
by Ugo da Carpi, foimder of the chiaroscuro process in Italy; work 
by the most important 17th-century practitioners include Aeneas Car- 
rying Anchises by Ludolph Businck; Death of Lu^cretia by Paulus 
Moreelse; and Sibyll with Boohs and Virgin toith Jesus and John by 
Bartolomeo Coriolano. The 18th century is represented by John 
Baptist Jackson's Pieta and the outline block for his The Virgin in 
the Clouds and Six Saints. A Lechrorae National Photocolor One- 



28 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

Shot Color Camera was presented to the section of photography by 
Ralph E. Wareham. This type of camera simultaneously exposes a 
complete set of color separation negatives which are used to produce 
color prints. Technicolor Corporation donated a display of motion- 
picture him strips explaining their Teclmirama process of 
cinematography. 

The division of manufactures and heavy industries acquired several 
significant specimens. In the section of petroleum, Universal Oil 
Products Company and Esso Standard Oil Company, in association 
with the M. W. Kellogg Company, prepared models and flow charts 
illustrative of phases in the development of petroleum refining. Wil- 
liam C. Cleveland, consultant in the section of general manufacturing, 
has been successful in locating more than 100 machines typical of the 
development of the metalworking trades. These will provide an ex- 
cellent basis for a treatment of the history of fasteners of all kinds. 
A number of important pieces of equipment have been transferred 
by nuclear physics laboratories at Argonne, Cliicago, and Wasliing- 
ton, D.C. 

Civil history. — President John F. Kennedy gave the Smithsonian 
Institution a magnificent volume, the Atlas Nouveau^ compiled by 
Nicolas Sanson and published in 1692. The richly illustrated atlas, 
intended for the instruction of the Dauphin of France, is bound in 
handsome contemporary red leather and gilt binding. 

Former President Dwight D. Eisenhower donated a Portuguese 
standing lamp in silver, a carved teakwood elephant and rider pre- 
sented to him by His Majesty Bhumibol Adulyadej of Thailand, and 
an elaborately carved scene from the Mahabharata in ivory and 
sandalwood, presented to him by the President of India. Mr. Eisen- 
hower also gave the twin microphones over which his voice was fre- 
quently carried during his 50,000-mile campaign of 1952. 

Mrs. Dwight D. Eisenhower presented a pink embroidered organdy 
dress given her by Mrs. Carlos P. Garcia, wife of tlie President of the 
Philippines. Ralph E. Becker continued his donations of political 
campaign paraphernalia of the past. Significant among the gifts is a 
preserve crock inscribed "25,000 ]\Iajority General Jackson" — a protest 
against the fact that in the election of 1824 General Jackson rolled up 
a majority of greater than 25,000 popular votes over his nearest rival, 
John Quincy Adams. He lost the election, however; since no candidate 
had a majority of the total vote, the House of Representatives chose 
Mr. Adams from the three candidates having the highest number of 
electoral votes. 

Noteworthy among accessions received in the division of philately 
and postal history is a specialized collection of early Peru donated 
by Bernard Peyton, consisting of more than 13,000 stamps and covers 
in 16 albums. The material portrays the postal history of Peru from 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 29 

the period of Eoyal Spanish Service to the end of the 19th century. 
Essays, proofs, and color trials augment the approved stamps, and 
each issue is thoroughly explored by means of cancellations. One 
album presents the Pacific Steam Navigation Company's stamps and 
essays including use on covers. The provisional stamps made neces- 
sary by the occupation of Chilean forces in 1879-82 are of great his- 
torical value. George L. Lee presented a collection of Egyptian 
stamps from the Royal Imperforata Printings prepared for Kings 
Fuad and Farouk. This unusual material was sold by the present 
Egyptian Government in 1954. Mr. Lee also gave a used copy of 
the 5-cent Canadian St. Lawrence Seaway stamp with inverted center. 
This modern printing error, of which only slightly more than 100 are 
known, including 11 used copies, was discovered in 1959 not long after 
date of issuance. "Widespread interest and limited supply have caused 
a sharp appreciation for this variety. 

A most important single addition to the numismatic collections 
was received from Cornelius Van Schaak Roosevelt, grandson of 
President Theodore Roosevelt, who donated a high-relief experimental 
$20 gold piece dated 1907, owned originally by President Roosevelt. 
This exceedingly rare and significant piece is one of the first strikings 
of high-relief $20 gold pieces designed by the American sculptor 
Augustus Saint-Gaudens at the President's request. It marks a unique 
venture in modern monetary history, a venture which found the Presi- 
dent of the United States and a famous sculptor working together 
and devoting much of their time and energy to the task of producing 
a new coin design of real artistic merit. Willis du Pont donated a 
very significant additional group of Russian coins and medals of the 
latter part of the 18th century. Mrs. Louise Merrick Schermerhorn 
presented a group of rare gold certificates including a group of three 
notes dated 1864, 1866, and 1877, typifying the earliest issues of United 
States gold certificates. To the section of medallic art were added, as 
a gift from Norman Stack, two rare Washington medals made in 1790 
by Manly and in 1805 by Eccleston. The Medallic Art Company of 
New York donated an interesting group of models and dies used for 
the striking of the J. F. Kennedy Inaugural Medal, as well as a process 
set of medals showing the various steps in the striking and finishing 
of the medal. 

Armed Forces history. — The division of military history received 
a unique Revolutionary War militia color carried at the Battles of 
Trenton and Germantown, presented by Francis W. Headman in 
memory of his son, Francis W. Headman, Jr. A rare Medal of 
Honor, awarded for gallantry in the siege of Pekin, 1900, was pre- 
sented by Lt. Col. Calvin P. Titus, the recipient. Fieldwork at Sackets 
Harbor, N. Y., Fort Adams, Miss., and at underwater sites in Bermuda 
yielded significant historical materials for the collections. President 



30 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

John F. Kennedy donated an ancient Greek amphora recovered from 
the Mediterranean Sea. 

Outstanding among the objects received during the year in the 
division of naval history were collections of German and Japanese 
ordnance and electronic equipment of World War II, Japanese uni- 
forms, and uniform items of Fleet Admiral Nimitz and Vice Admiral 
Lockwood. Two items associated with Pearl Harbor were received. 
A unique monogrammed dish for the Confederate Navy was added to 
the Civil War collections. 

EXPLORATION AND HELDWORK 

Dr. T. Dale Stewart, head curator of anthropology, continued his 
research in Iraq and during the summer participated in the 1960 
Shanidar Expedition sponsored jointly by the Smithsonian Institution 
and Columbia University. This research extends the collaboration 
between Dr. Stewart and Dr. Ealph S. Solecki, formerly on the staff 
of the Smithsonian Institution. Dr. Stewart's participation in this 
fourth Shanidar expedition was based on the consideration that the 
skull of No. 2 had been recovered last season but that the rest of the 
skeleton had been left in situ. After working 6 weeks on this skull in 
Baghdad, Dr. Stewart went to Shanidar to join Dr. and Mrs. Solecki. 
They spent 2 weeks uncovering the skeleton of No. 2, which unfortu- 
nately proved to be incomplete, consisting only of a few vertebrae and 
two leg bones. However, at the end of this period more parts of No. 3 
were found and almost immediately three new skeletons. Wlien Dr. 
Stewart left Shanidar in mid- August he was able to take back to 
Baghdad parts of five Neanderthal skeletons. This continuing ex- 
ploration, therefore, is turning out to be extremely profitable and 
future studies of this Neanderthal material may be expected to be of 
considerable significance. 

In the summer of 1960 an interesting discovery was made near 
Littleton, Colo., of a late Pleistocene bone bed with possible human 
associations. Because this discovery was of interest both to vertebrate 
paleontologists and to archeologists. Dr. Waldo E. Wedel, curator of 
archeology, and Dr. C. Lewis Gazin, curator of vertebrate paleontol- 
ogy, collaborated in outlining a project to the National Science 
Foundation which has resulted in a grant to make possible a thorough 
exploration of the Colorado site. To begin this work, in June 1961, Dr. 
Wedel spent about 2 weeks at the site together with George S. Metcalf , 
museum aide. The first stages of this digging uncovered some human 
artifacts and indicated that the subsequent work might be of unusual 
interest. 

Dr. ClifTord Evans, associate curator of archeology, and his wife, 
Dr. Betty J. Meggers, honorary research associate, during the summer 
of 1960 made a comparative study of certain south American collec- 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 31 

tions in various European museums. During this period they also 
participated in the Slth International Congress of Americanists in 
Vienna and the 6th International Congress of Anthropological and 
Etlmological Sciences in Paris. In August they engaged in fieldwork 
in southern France, examining the famous Paleolithic sites that are 
important to archeologists. 

Dr. Gordon D. Gibson, associate curator of ethnology, spent most 
of the year in ethnological fieldwork and in collecting among the 
Herero of South West Africa and Bechuanaland. Dr. Gibson returned 
by way of Egypt and other North African countries in order to obtain 
material for exhibits in the planning state in a new hall of Asiatic, 
Pacific, and African ethnology. Since this fieldwork was still in 
progress at the end of the fiscal year, a more complete account of it 
will be left for the next annual report. 

For a period of about 3i/^ months, Dr. Eugene I. Knez, associate 
curator of ethnology, visited numerous museums and conducted field- 
work in various European countries, Pakistan, India, Burma, and 
other countries of southeastern Asia, Hong Kong, Taiwan, Korea, 
and Japan to obtain, through local scientists and officials, contempo- 
rary ethnological materials for use in a renovated exhibit hall now 
being prepared in the Museum of Natural History. The work proved 
to be extremely successful, both in terms of ethnological materials 
acquired for the exhibit program and personal contacts made with 
local scientists and scholars. 

In the spring of 1960, Dr. Henry W. Setzer, associate curator of 
mammals, participated in the Smithsonian-Collins expedition to 
Libya, organized and led by Eobert L. Pomeroy and Alan C. Collins. 
The party traveled overland from Benghazi by way of Cufra Oasis 
to Faya in northern Tchad, investigating the little-lmown Tibesti 
Mountains on the Libyan-Tchad frontier, and returned to the Medi- 
terranean coast by way of Sebha Oasis. In all, they traveled about 
5,000 miles, and Dr. Setzer obtained a valuable collection of mammals. 
En route to join the expedition, he spent a brief period at the British 
Museum (Natural History) in London, comparing type specimens of 
various European and African mammals. 

Toward the end of the year Dr. Charles O. Handley, Jr., associate 
curator of mammals, and D. I. Rhymer, office of exhibits, collected 
in the higher parts of the Clinch Mountains, near Saltville, Va. This 
exploration was a part of Dr. Handley's continuing studies of mam- 
mals of the southeastern United States. The 250 forest mammals 
obtained complement the large collection of meadow mammals taken 
in the same region in 1957 by Dr. Handley and associates. 

Field studies in the survey of the variation and distribution of the 
birds of the Isthmus of Panama under Dr. Alexander Wetmore, 
honorary research associate and retired Secretary of the Smithsonian 



32 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

Institution, were continued from January through March. The work 
began with 10 days devoted mainly to water birds on tlie lower Rio 
Chagres at Juan JVlina. Following this Dr. Wetmore accompanied a 
party from the Gorgas Memorial Laboratory for Tropical Medicine 
to eastern Darien. Tlii'ough cooperation of the air arm of the U.S. 
Army, the men with their equipment were transferred by helicopter 
from the town of El Real, on the lower Rio Tuira, to Cerro Pirre, 
where camp was established on the headwaters of the Rio Seteganti 
about 10 kilometers from the Colombian bomidary. Birds collected 
for study skins served also as a source of blood samples to be checked 
for disease, and of ectoparasites, particularly mites, by other members 
of the party. The area is one of special interest as the mountain is 
isolated and has a number of species of South American affinity little 
known in Panama. 

Most of the remainder of the time available this year was given to 
studies in the upper basin of the Rio Chagres. In mid-February 
Dr. and Mrs. Wetmore, with two assistants from the Gorgas Labora- 
tory, crossed to the head of Madden Lake by dugout canoe and 
continued up the Rio Boqueron to the mouth of the Quebrada Peluca 
near the base of Cerro Bruja. Through the kindness of W. H. 
Esslinger, chief hydrographer, Meteorological and Hydrographic 
Branch of the Canal Zone, quarters were available here, and also 
later at Candelaria, in small buildings housing stream gauge equip- 
ment for record of rmioff waters that feed Madden Lake. At the end 
of 2 weeks the party moved to the Rio Pequeni for further studies. 
Both areas were still heavily forested, with few human inhabitants 
and fewer trails. Travel was mainly by walking and wading along 
the beds of streams. Although this was the dry season, rain fell 
daily. The specimens and notes obtained are especially valuable since 
this is an intermediate area between the eastern and w^estern sections 
of the isthmus that has been little known from the standpoint of its 
biology. The men from the Gorgas Laboratory prepared a consider- 
able series of blood smears and also made collections of biting insects 
of interest as possible carriers of disease. The season closed with a 
week at La Jagua in the savanna region east of Pacora. 

The division of birds lent the services of Bernard R. Feinstein, 
museum aide, to the U.S. Army Medical Research and Development 
Command for much of the year. Mr. Feinstein has been spending 
the year in South Vietnam collecting with an expedition that is 
partially sponsored by the Bernice P. Bishop Museum, of Honolulu. 
In June, William D. Field, associate curator of insects, spent 2 
weeks in field research in the Great Smol^ Mountains National Park 
and other areas of Georgia and South Carolina. Among many valu- 
able additions he made to the national collection of butterflies during 
the trip, special mention should be made of the very rare species 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 33 

Strymon kingi and Megathymus harrisi, both of wliich are new to 
the Museum's collections. 

Dr. Oliver S. Flint, Jr., associate curator of insects, spent two 
periods collecting Trichoptera and related groups for the Museum. 
In May he obtained collections of such material in the area of New 
York State near Cornell University in connection with a trip to 
study museum collections. Early in June he made extensive collec- 
tions in the vicinity of Highlands, N.C., and other areas of the Great 
Smoky Mountains and the Blue Ridge. The collections obtained at 
these localities contained many species and at least two genera not 
previously in the national collections. 

In September Dr. Frederick M. Bayer, associate curator of marine 
invertebrates, accompanied by Anthony Di Stefano, of the office of 
exhibits, made a collecting trip to Florida to obtain material and 
notes for the coral shore exhibit of the Hall of Oceanic Life. Their 
work was greatly facilitated by the cooperation of the staff of the 
Marine Laboratory of the University of Miami. Soldier Key, lying 
5 miles south of Cape Florida on the south end of Biscayne Key, 
provided a good representation of the flora and fauna of the coral 
shore area. The field party made complete photographic notes on 
the shoreline and shore vegetation, as well as taking a series of under- 
water photographs. The specimens were taken from the upper, lower, 
and reef flat platforms, including marine animals, algae, and other 
plants. Many plaster casts were made in the field and all material 
obtained was returned to Washington, where it will serve as a basis 
for the planned exhibit. 

In August and September, Charles E. Cutress, Jr., associate curator 
of marine invertebrates, and Raymond Hays, of the office of exhibits, 
spent nearly 4 weeks in Oregon collecting specimens and data for a 
rocky shore habitat group being planned for the Hall of Oceanic 
Life. An excellent collecting site was found about 6 miles from the 
Oregon Institute of Marine Biology at Charleston, and the facilities 
of this Institute enabled the field party to make the best possible use 
of their time. In addition to obtaining many thousands of specimens 
of invertebrates, fishes, and plants, the party took numerous color 
photographs covering the animals and plants collected as well as the 
site. In addition, sketches and color notations were made in prepara- 
tion for the proposed exhibit. 

In October, Dr. Harald A. Rehder, curator of mollusks, worked 
in the Pacific area, particularly on Jaluit Atoll, in the southern Mar- 
shall Islands. This atoll is of much interest to biologists working in 
the Pacific because it was nearly completely devastated by a typhoon 
several years ago. Since that time two or three visits have been made 
to the area to observe the sequence of events following such a natural 
disaster. Dr. Rehder explored and studied various islands in the 



34 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

atoll, their shorelines and reefs, and collected mollusks and other 
marine life. At the 42 field stations made on the various islands 
composing the atoll a fairly complete collection of the reef and shal- 
low-water mollusks was made, amounting to thousands of specimens. 
This collection will give the National Museum a good representation 
of the reef fauna of the southern Marshalls and will complement exist- 
ing collections from the other parts of the Marshall Islands. 

Between the middle of November and the middle of February, Dr. 
Joseph P. E. Morrison, associate curator of mollusks, and Thomas 
G. Baker, of the office of exhibits, made intensive explorations in New 
Caledonia to acquire specimens and data for a coral-reef group being 
planned in the new Hall of Oceanic Life. The cooperation of various 
residents of Noumea, New Caledonia, including staff members of the 
Oceanographic Institution and the South Pacific Commission, made 
it possible for them to spend much time on the reefs near Noumea and 
to make productive dives from small boats. The barrier reef off the 
coast of New Caledonia presents diverse habitats, and a very rich 
fauna was observed in many spots. It is anticipated that the materials 
and photographs returned to the Museum will permit the exhibits 
staff to design and build an exceptionally fine replica of a Pacific coral 
reef, although some further exploration may be necessary in order 
to obtain certain fishes and a few other typical elements of the fauna. 

Dr. Richard S. Cowan, associate curator of phanerogams, in mid- 
June, accompanied by four staff members of the office of exhibits, 
examined nine sites along the eastern coast of Virginia and North 
Carolina for the purpose of selecting one that would serve as a basis 
for constructing a coastal-life group in the future liall of plant science. 
A large number of photographs were made, sketches and watercolor 
paintings of scenes and objects were executed, and the leaves of plants 
were cast in plaster for future use in our exhibits laboratory. 

Dr. Velva E. Rudd, associate curator of phanerogams, spent about 
3 weeks in Mexico, where she attended the First Botanical Congress 
of that country. Subsequently she traveled about 900 miles in Mexico 
studying the different types of vegetation, such as montane pine forest, 
cactus, desert, and tropical selva. Specimens were obtained for the 
National Herbarium, and many botanists in Mexico were encouraged 
to make collections and send them to Washington for study. 

Early in August, Dr. G. A. Cooper, head curator of the department 
of geology, accompanied by Henry B. Roberts, museum aide, and 
Dr. Druid Wilson of the U.S. Geological Survey, made a very profit- 
able trip to the vicinity of Hampton, Va., where they collected Mio- 
cene fossils along the James River. Two borrow pits were visited, 
Wilson's Pit and Rice's Pit, which have a great surface from which 
to collect in contrast to the usual cliff sections found in the Chesa- 
peake Bay area. Consequently hundreds of very fine specimens were 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 35 

obtained. Perhaps the large areas available for searching account 
for the fact that a fair number of new species have been turned up 
from these particular pits. 

In September, Dr. George S. Switzer, curator of mineralogy and 
petrology, accompanied by Paul E. Desautels, associate curator of 
that division, collected excellent mineralogical material at the Sower- 
butt Quarry in the vicinity of Butler, N.J. In August Dr. Switzer 
visited Norway and Denmark, partly to attend meetings of the Inter- 
national Geological Congress and the International Mineralogical 
Association in Copenhagen. Before the meeting Dr. Switzer joined 
a field excursion to mineral occurrences in southern Norway, visiting 
the Kongsberg silver mines, the serpentine deposits at Modum, the 
Skutterud cobalt mine, the granite pegmatites of the Iveland district, 
the 0degarden phosphate deposits, and the nepheline syenite peg- 
matites of Langesundfjord. 

In February Edward P. Henderson, associate curator of mineralogy 
and petrology, accompanied by Dr. Chao of the U.S. Geological Sur- 
vey and Dr. Cohen of the Mellon Institute of Pittsburgh, visited 
various localities in Georgia that had produced tektites. Five tektite 
localities were investigated, and it was found that the formation from 
which these tektites come are more complex than the local geologists 
had previously thought. Since the Georgia tektites have been chem- 
ically dated as being 29 million years old, and this date has been 
established by two separate investigators, the findings of tektites 
in different parts of Georgia will make it possible to date accurately 
some of the widely scattered beds in some sedimentary formations 
that contain very few fossils. 

Dr. Kichard S. Boardinan, associate curator of invertebrate paleon- 
tology and paleobotany, during the summer months visited several 
European museums and universities studying collections and also 
explored areas for purposes of collecting. During June he collected 
invertebrate fossils from many of the classic Lower Paleozoic locali- 
ties in Britain. These localities include many of the faunas used as 
standards for comparisons for stratigraphic and geologic time inter- 
vals over the world. During July and parts of August and September 
he collected in Norway and Sweden. The Island of Gotland produced 
an even ton of remarkably preserved invertebrate fossils, which will 
provide an important research collection as well as many specimens 
of exhibit potential. 

In connection with the Hall of Invertebrate Paleontology then 
being renovated, Dr. Porter M. Kier, associate curator of invertebrate 
paleontology and paleobotany, accompanied by Dr. Erie G. Kauffman, 
assistant curator of that division, explored Scientists' Cliffs, Md., to 
obtain sediment from the Miocene outcrop to enable them to recon- 
struct an echinoid-bearing slab for the echinoderm exhibit. They 



36 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

also obtained many Miocene mollusks. Early in June Dr. Kier joined 
Dr. Eaymond Douglass, of the U.S. Geological Survey, in Nevada, 
where they searched for Upper Cambrian carpoids. These are primi- 
tive echinoderms, and no specimens as old as the Upper Cambrian 
have been found outside of one locality in France. Tveo specimens 
were located in Nevada, and these are sufficiently well preserved to 
show characters never before reported in these animals. In the same 
general area a collection of trilobites was made, and many topotypic 
corals were obtained from the Pennsylvanian in the vicinity of Ely, 
Nev. 

During the year Dr. Richard Cifelli, associate curator of inverte- 
brate paleontology and paleobotany, made three expeditions in the 
Atlantic in collaboration with staff members of the Woods Hole 
Oceanographic Institution. In August he joined the oceanographic 
vessel R. V. Crawford, which then traveled in a southeasterly direc- 
tion and occupied the same stations that were studied a year earlier 
by the scientists working from the R. V. Chain. Hydrographic ob- 
servations were made and 200-meter oblique plankton tows were taken 
at each station. A separate net was used for Foraminifera and a 
total of 15 samples was collected. After completing work at the last 
station in the Sargasso Sea, the vessel returned directly to Woods 
Hole. In January Dr. Cifelli joined the research vessel B. V. Chain 
at Woods Hole and accompanied it along the regular Woods Hole 
AEC traverse to Bermuda. Despite the cold, windy weather the 
scientists were able to occupy all the 15 stations along this traverse, 
and Dr. Cifelli collected a plankton sample for Foraminifera from 
each. This was his third series from the traverse. 

Dr. Cifelli's third trip, also on board the B. V. Chain, was in the 
equatorial Atlantic Ocean. The principal area of investigation was 
the Romanche Trench. This feature lies on the Equator at about 
longitude 18° W. and is a region of considerable geologic interest. 
The depth of the Trench is over 8,000 meters, but in contrast to other 
ocean deeps it is not situated adjacent to an island chain or continental 
land mass. Rather, it lies on the Mid-Atlantic Ridge itself. Dr. 
Cifelli joined the Chain in Freetown, Sierra Leone, on April 19 and 
accompanied it to Woods Hole. Coring, bottom sampling, and bot- 
tom dredging were emphasized during this phase of the cruise. The 
group obtained five cores, six bottom samples, and one dredge. All 
the cores contained rich layers of Foraminifera and one of them was 
taken from the deepest part of the trench. In addition, plankton 
tows were taken every night along the traverse from the Romanche 
Trench to Woods Hole. Dr. Cifelli obtained 52 plankton samples, 
which will be a valuable addition to the national collections, since 
they cover a very large range of latitude. 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 37 

In August, Dr. Erie G. Kauffman, associate curator of invertebrate 
paleontology and paleobotany, joined a paleontological expedition 
sponsored and financed by the University of Michigan. The objective 
was to obtain vertebrate and invertebrate fossil remains and detailed 
stratigraphic data from the Upper Cretaceous and the Lower Tertiary 
coal-bearing formations of the Alaskan interior. Fossils other than 
those of plants had not previously been recorded from these beds. 
Beginning work in the vicinity of Healy, Alaska, the group examined 
in detail every major outcrop of the Tertiary coal-bearing formation 
and some of the Upper Cretaceous deposits, including the type sections 
in the Healy-McKinley area. Numerous well-preserved plant fossils 
were obtained but no animal remains were discovered. A representa- 
tive flora was returned to the Smithsonian. Cross-bedding studies 
of the coal-bearing formation were made at many localities, and 
these studies enabled the group to define more clearly the position 
and size of the Tertiary coal basins and the direction of transport and 
source area for the Tertiary Clastic sediments. A final week was 
spent on the Kenai Peninsula in the vicinity of Homer, Alaska, where 
beds of the Kenai formation, also a Tertiary coal-bearing deposit, are 
well exposed in the sea cliffs. Again a search for animal life proved 
fruitless, although abundant plant fossils were encountered and col- 
lected. A great deal of new information concerning the stratigraphy 
and sedimentology of the Alaskan coal-bearing deposits was gathered, 
although the principal goal of the expedition, the discovery of fossil 
animals in these deposits, was not achieved. During a brief trip in 
July to Brightseat, Md., Dr. Kauffman was accompanied by museum 
aide Henry B. Roberts. The purpose of this expedition was to study 
the fauna and stratigraphy of the Upper Cretaceous Monmouth for- 
mation and the Brightseat formation and to note the nature of their 
contact at the type section. More than 3,000 invertebrate specimens 
were collected, including several species previously unknown from 
the Maryland Cretaceous and perhaps a few species new to science. 

Dr. C. Lewis Gazin, curator of vertebrate paleontology, carried on 
extended research in Europe. In addition to studying historic fossil 
collections in many European museums and attending the Interna- 
tional Geological Congress at Copenhagen and various paleontological 
symposia, Dr. Gazin also visited various collecting localities and ob- 
tained important material for the national collections. In France he 
visited the various collecting sites for Paleocene mammals in the 
Cernay area and all the known quarries where Sparnacian or Lower 
Eocene mammals have been found. He also worked at the Cormeilles 
Quarry near Paris, where a remarkable display of Early Tertiary 
horizons from the Ludian or Gypse de Paris through the Sannoisian 
to the Stampian could be seen. This is very near Sannois, the type 
locality for the Sannoisian Lower Oligocene. In Spain, in the vicinity 



38 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

of Barcelona, Dr. Gazin visited important localities where strata are 
exposed from the Eocene to the Pliocene. Although the local collec- 
tions are essentially from the Upper Tertiary, a surprising amount of 
Eocene, generally regarded as barren, is exposed in the area. 

A party consisting of Dr. Nicholas Hotton, 3d, associate curator 
of vertebrate paleontology, Kurt Hauschildt, museum aide, and Dr. 
Frank C. Whitmore, of the U.S. Geological Survey, made two ex- 
peditions during the year to Hampton, Va., to collect portions of a 
whale skeleton from the Yorktown formation. They collected the 
following parts of the whale : Right mandible, right maxilla, two com- 
plete ribs, about 15 vertebrae representing thoracic, lumbar, and 
caudal regions, and assorted small bones, mostly chevrons. This 
skeleton has been tentatively identified as that of a species of Balaenop- 
tera. It lay about 8 feet below the top of the Yorktown (Miocene) 
formation as exposed at the site. 

In November, Dr. Hotton collected vertebrates of Mississippian age 
and prospected other Mississippian localities at Greer, W. Va., and 
vicinity. He was accompanied by William E. Moran, formerly a 
member of the staff of the division of vertebrate paleontology. The 
Mississippian Period is of critical importance in the study of tetrapod 
evolution, since it marks the time of the initial radiation of the am- 
phibians and the probable origins of the reptiles. Unfortunately, most 
Mississippian sediments are of marine origin, so that the rarity of 
terrestrial deposits of that age makes them doubly important. Three 
quarries were visited and much material of significance was obtained, 
including a partial skeleton of an embolomerous amphibian. In 
February Dr. Hotton left for South Africa for a collecting season in 
the famous Permian Karroo beds. In this work he was furnished 
every accommodation by his colleagues at the University of Witwaters- 
rand in Johannesburg. Considerable success was achieved in obtain- 
ing many skulls and other skeletal portions of a variety of Permian 
and Triassic vertebrate forms, none of which were previously repre- 
sented in the collections of the Smithsonian Institution. 

Staff members of the Museum of History and Teclinology visited 
many musemns in the United States and abroad during the year, 
mostly to observe exhibit techniques or to procure materials for 
exhibition in the new building. The fieldwork of these staff members 
generally involves trips of this sort, or visits to numerous individ- 
uals and institutions about the country in an attempt to procure ex- 
hibit materials or to learn something about developments that will be 
useful in the Smithsonian's expanding efforts. 

For a week in September, John C. Ewers, Assistant Director of 
the Museum of History and Technology, was able to renew his re- 
search interests in the Blackfeet Indians in Montana. Many changes 
have taken place since he last visited the Blackfeet Reservation in 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 39 

1953. Among these have been a rapid decline in the use of the Black- 
feet language by the Indians, the virtual disappearance of living links 
between the traditional buffalo-hunting culture and the present, the 
probable discontinuance of the tribal sun dance in 1959, the transfer- 
ence of Indian education from Indian Service schools to public 
schools of the State of Montana, and the abolition of Indian prohibi- 
tion followed by the opening of several taverns in the town of Brown- 
ing. Mr. Ewers obtained pertinent information which enabled him 
to bring up to date liis studies of the history of the Blackfeet arts 
and crafts. 

During the last half of August and early September Mendel L. 
Peterson, head curator of armed forces history, explored underwater 
sites in Bermuda. He took part in an investigation of four ship- 
wreck sites, three of which dated from the 17th century and the 
fourth from the early 19th century. A collection of several hundred 
objects was recovered and forwarded to the Smithsonian. The most 
interesting wreck site examined is believed to be that of the San 
Antonio^ a ship of the Spanish treasure fleet which was wrecked on 
the southwestern reefs of Bermuda in 1621. Outstanding among the 
hundreds of objects recovered are two wine jars of different shape and 
size in perfect condition. Both are of extremely rare types. Addi- 
tional items recovered were money cowries, blue glass trade beads, 
tanbark, tanned leather, a very large number of red-ware shards, 
Talavera shards, and some jars of numerous shapes. Among the 
ordnance materials found were solid iron shot of two sizes, an ex- 
tremely rare stone shot, small spheroid pebbles used in swivel guns, 
and three varieties of wire musket shot believed to be unique. A sec- 
ond ship investigated was the Sea Venture^ which was wrecked in 
1609 and resulted in the settlement of Bermuda. There is no doubt 
about the identity of this ship ; an irrefutable chain of evidence has 
been discovered on the site, and the location of the wreck and circum- 
stances of its stranding coincide perfectly with eyewitness accounts 
of the event. The two remaining ships are the Virginia Merchant, 
destroyed in 1660, and the Caesar, an English merchant ship bound 
for Baltimore that struck reefs southwest of Bermuda in 1818. 

EXHIBITIONS 

In the introductory statement of this Eeport the work completed 
in the Smithsonian's exhibits-modernization in the past 8 years has 
been summarized. Twenty-two National Museum halls are described 
in some detail in that recapitulation. It therefore seems appropriate 
here to record only a few additional details that pertain particularly 
to events of the past year. 

During the year six modernized exhibition halls were opened to 
the public. 

626325—62 4 



40 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

The third and last section of the textile hall gallery, presenting the 
origin and history of lacemaking and rugmaking and popular types 
of American needlework, was completed for public inspection on 
December 9, 1960. Included in this display are old American quilts, 
samplers dating from the 18th and 19th centuries, laces beginning 
with 16th-century drawnwork and also machine-made laces of the 
19th century, and needlework handkerchiefs. 

The completely renovated Hall of Monetary History and Me- 
dallic Art was formally opened in the Arts and Industries Building 
on March 18, 1961, in the presence of the Secretary of the Treasury, 
the Under Secretary of the Treasury, Senator Clinton P. Anderson 
and Representative Frank T. Bow, Regents of the Smithsonian In- 
stitution, members of the diplomatic corps, donors, collectors, and 
representatives of numismatic organizations from all sections of the 
United States. The central series of 19 specially designed cases 
traces the major aspects of the development of money economy from 
primitive barter to the establishment of our modem monetary sys- 
tem. The hall also features the world's largest collection of gold 
coins, given to the Smithsonian Institution by the late Paul A. 
Straub. Almost 4,000 silver coins complement this series. 

The story of life through the ages from the oldest known fossils, 
dated 1,600 million years ago, to the Cenozoic Era mammals is de- 
picted in three halls in the Natural History Building. The synoptic 
display of fossil plants features those that contributed to the formation 
of coal. Fossil backboneless animals such as sponges, corals, snails, 
clams, trilobites, and other extinct shelled animals are shown in geo- 
logical time sequence. The second hall, that of fossil fishes and am- 
phibians was informally opened in June 1960. This year a life-sized 
group was completed, showing an encounter between two kinds of 
pelycosaurs, or fin-backed reptiles, as it might have happened about 
260 million years ago. The third hall, the Age of Mammals in North 
America, traces the succession of mammals in the five epochs of Terti- 
ary time from Paleocene to Pliocene, a period of 70 million years. 
Skeletons of the better-known groups of mammals are supplemented 
by a display of skulls for each of these epochs. The large mural 
painting by Jay H. Matternes depicting some of the characteristic 
mammals with contemporary reptiles and plants of the Bridger middle 
Eocene has been completed, and a second mural, showing a Harrisonian 
or early Miocene life assemblage of mammals, is nearly finished. These 
three halls were formally opened to the public on the night of June 6, 
1961. 

The first of two modernized halls of North American Archeology 
was opened to the public on June 24, 1961. A number of the 34 
exhibits in this hall portray and explain important aspects of aborigi- 
nal North American life. About half of the exhibits in the hall inter- 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 41 

pret the prehistoric cultures of the North American Arctic, the North 
Pacific Coast, California, and the Southwest by means of selected 
artifacts, graphic materials, and life-sized and miniature groups. 

A temporary meteorite exhibit, placed in the areaway connecting 
the jade room and this archeology hall on the second floor of the Nat- 
ural History Building, was also opened to the public on June 24, 
1961. 

The modernized Hall of Petroleum, adjoining the iron and steel 
exhibit in the Arts and Industries Building, provides a brief histori- 
cal account of the growth of the petroleum industry since the dis- 
covery of the Drake well at Titus ville, Pa., in 1859. This hall, 
completed in June 1961, features animated models showing the two 
earliest methods of drilling employed in the United States — the 
springpole and the Drake rig. A small display of geophysical 
exploration equipment, made possible by the generosity of Seimos 
GmbH, Humble Oil Co., Continental Oil Co., Schlumberger, and 
Everett Lee DeGolyer, Jr., reviews the principal methods employed to 
expand knowledge of America's oil resources. With the cooperation 
of Standard Oil Co. (Indiana), Universal Oil Products Co., Esso 
Standard Oil Co., M. W. Kellogg Co., C. P. Dubbs, and tlie Massa- 
chusetts Institute of Technology (Prof. Harold Weber), an account 
of the major developments in oil refining is presented. The experi- 
mental still used by Drs. Burton and Humphries at Whiting, Ind., 
which led to the first large-scale thermal cracking of crude, was 
graciously donated to the Museum by Dr. Eobert Wilson. A poly- 
merization plant model shows one of the earliest processes for in- 
creasing the high-octane content of gasoline, which was important 
in making fuel available for the allied air forces in 1939-40. The 
historic fluid-catalytic cracking process which was evolved in 1941 to 
provide the best qualities of fuel needed by the U.S. Air Force is also 
shown, as well as a platinum-catalyst reforming process demon- 
strated as a sample of the postwar effort to convert lower-grade to a 
higher-grade fuel. 

Construction of Hall 8, in which will be displayed the material 
culture of the peoples of the Pacific Islands and South and South- 
east Asia, was completed in May 1961. New construction was com- 
menced in the adjacent Hall 7, which will contain the exhibits for 
the peoples of Africa and eastern Asia. Continued progress was 
made on the contractual construction of the large west hall fixtures 
for the display of oceanic life. Architect's plans for the moderni- 
zation of the large east Hall 2, which will contain the dinosaurs 
and the Mesozoic reptiles, were completed and the construction con- 
tract let in June 1961. 

At the end of the eighth year of the continuing modernization of 
exliibits program, 9 of the 15 galleries on the first floor and 4 second- 



42 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

floor halls in the Natural History Building have been renovated 
and opened to public view. 

Curatorial planning of exhibits for the large Hall of Oceanic 
Life, now under construction, comprised the major exliibits project 
of the department of zoology during the year. All members of the 
curatorial staffs of the divisions of fishes, marine invertebrates, and 
mollusks were actively engaged in this project, and those of the di- 
visions of mammals and reptiles and amphibians were involved to 
some extent. Four field trips have been made to collect materials for 
this hall. Dr. Joseph P. E. Morrison and James Watson obtained 
materials for the marshy-shore and sandy-beach groups near Ocean 
Spring, Miss., and Beaufort, N.C. For the Pacific coast rock-shore 
and tidepool habitat group, Charles E. Cutress, Jr., and Eaymond 
E. Hays visited Cape Arago, Oreg. Coral-shore specimens were 
collected by Dr. Frederick M. Bayer and Anthony DiStefano at Sol- 
dier Key off Miami, Fla. Dr. Morrison and Thomas G. Baker 
gathered material and information for the coral-reef exhibit in New 
Caledonia. Five casts of fishes near record size have been donated 
by Al Pfiueger of North Miami, Fla. 

Because of the necessarily long period of time during which the 
large east Hall 2 and the northeast Hall 6 will be closed, a selection 
of dinosaurs and Pleistocene animals of popular interest has been 
placed on display in the rotunda of the Natural History Building. 

During the year 16 new exhibits interpreting the history of medi- 
cine, dentistry, and pharmacy were installed on the east gallery of 
the Arts and Industries Building, bringing the total of modernized 
exhibits in the field of medical sciences to 28. These new displays 
illustrate the practice of bloodletting through the ages, the develop- 
ment of surgical anesthesia, spectacles, medicine chests, antique 
drug jars, tools of the apothecary, and dental instruments. A new 
exhibit on the eye was installed in the hall of health. 

A special exhibition of the "geophysical globe," a new relief globe 
of superior accuracy, was held in the rotunda of the Arts and Indus- 
tries Building during April 1961. A diorama prepared for exhibition 
in the hall of electricity of the Museum of History and Technology, 
depicting the broadcast of a program from the studio of KDKA (one 
of the pioneer commercial broadcasting stations in the world) during 
the winter of 1921-22, was placed on public display. A special ex- 
hibition, featuring the model of the 1819 steamship Savannah^ was 
displayed in the watercraft hall in celebration of National Maritime 
"Week, May 21-27, 1961. The locomotive "Pioneer," which served the 
Cumberland Valley Eailroad in 1851, was placed on exhibition in the 
east hall of the Arts and Industries Building in February 1961. Two 
landmark machine tools of 1865-75, completely restored and made 
operative by William Henson, were placed on exhibition in the south- 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 43 

west gallery of the Arts and Industries Building. The first, a No. 1 
Brown and Sharpe Universal Milling Machine, is set up to mill the 
flutes of twist drills, which was one of the first operations undertaken 
by this type of machine. The other tool, a Jones and Lamson turret 
lathe, is equipped with authentically reconstructed turret tools to 
produce brass oil cups. A temporary exhibition of fine prints, draw- 
ings, and photographs of 18th- and 19th-century civil engineering 
works, planned by Associate Curator Eobert M. Vogel, was displayed 
from February 1 to April 30, 1961. A particularly attractive display 
of decorative watches was installed in the hall of timekeeping and the 
Schlage antique lock collection was shown for a period of 2 months 
in the rotunda of the Arts and Industries Building. 

An experimental fuel cell tractor, developed by the Allis-Chahners 
Manufacturing Co., was placed on special display in the hall of farm 
machinery in October 1960. Throughout the year a rotating exhibition 
of color photographs lent by the Soil Conservation Service of the 
U.S. Department of Agriculture was maintained at the east end of 
this hall. 

A special exhibit featuring 250 masteipieces of ancient Greek coin- 
age, prepared by Mrs. Clain-Stefanelli from material lent by a private 
collector, was displayed from December 1960 to March 11, 1961, in 
the rotunda of the Arts and Industries Building and from March 18 
to May 26, 1961, in the monetary history hall. Several small tempo- 
rary exhibits of a topical nature were arranged by the division of 
political history. An inaugural exhibit was displayed from Decem- 
ber 1960 to March 1961, and during the same period state gifts pre- 
sented to President Eisenhower were shown. Early voting machines 
and presidential commemorative material were exhibited during 
February 1961. During the year the Wliite House china collection 
expanded so that representative pieces from almost every adminis- 
tration are now on exhibition. A selected group of historical items 
from the Postal History Museum of the Post Office Department, 
which was transferred to the Smithsonian Institution April 1, 1961, 
was placed on exhibition in the philately hall. On May 26, 1961, a 
rare American wooden statue of William Pitt, carved in 1801 by 
Joseph Wilson for the eccentric "Lord" Timothy Dexter of Newbury- 
port, Mass., a gift of Mrs. Arthur M. Greenwood, was placed on ex- 
hibition in the cultural history hall. From January 15 to February 5, 
1961, the first public showing of the recently acquired Harry T. 
Peter's "America on Stone" lithography collection was held in the 
foyer of the Natural History Building. 

A complete display of United States military decorations and 
medals, and a Civil War 12-pounder gun on its carriage were added 
to the existing displays in the hall of military history. A number of 
warship models, relating particularly to the Civil W^ar, were added 



44 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

to the exhibits in the hall of naval history, while other models were 
progressively retired for major restoration. This restoration normally 
involves complete repainting and re-rigging, and frequently requires 
extensive research in the interest of detailed historical accuracy. 

During the month of September 1960 a special exhibition of 
memorabilia of Gen. John J. Pershing was placed on view in the 
rotunda of the Arts and Industries Building in conjunction with the 
national celebration of General Pershing's birth. Koman antiquities 
recovered from the Mediterrranean and the Sea of Galilee by the Link 
expedition during the previous summer were displayed from April 1 
to April 26, 1961. The division of military history prepared a special 
exhibition of military epaulets for the annual meeting of the Com- 
pany of Military Collectors and Historians which was held May 
19-21, 1961, at Gettysburg, Pa. 

Dr. A. C. Smith, Director of the Museum of Natural History, 
assumed the chairmanship of the committee coordinating and supervis- 
ing the modernization of the natural history exhibits following the 
retirement of Dr. Herbert Friedmann as head curator of zoology. Dr. 
Friedm.ann served with distinction as a member of the exhibits plan- 
ning committee since its formation in 1950, and played an active and 
substantial role in the organization and development of the exhibits 
modernization program. 

The major objective of the exhibits program of the Museum of 
History and Technology, which is being coordinated by Assistant 
Director Jolin C. Ewers, is the development of exhibits for the new 
building now under construction. Many of the exhibits destined for 
future display in this new museum building are now being installed 
in the Arts and Industries Building until the Museum of History and 
Technology Building is completed for occupancy. Exhibits for a 
number of halls in this new building were prepared in the exhibits 
laboratoiy and carefully stored until they can be installed. These 
included displays for the halls of costumes, political history, ceramics, 
everyday life in the American past, physics, railroads. Armed Forces 
history, and ordnance. 

Exhibits Chief John E. Anglim provided the over-all supervision 
of exhibits for the United States National Museum. The exhibits 
work for the Museum of History and Technology was supervised by 
Benjamin W. Lawless, with the assistance of Robert Widder in design, 
Bela S. Bory in production, and Robert Klinger in the model shop. 
RoUand O. Hower, assisted by Thomas G. Baker and Julius Tretick, 
supervised the renovation of exhibition halls in the Museum of Natural 
History. The design of the modernized halls in existing buildings has 
been greatly aided by Richard S. Johnson, design branch chief, and 
John H. Morrissey, architectural branch chief of the architectural 
and structural division of the Public Buildings Service, General Serv- 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 45 

ices Administration, and by Luther H. Flouton, Charles J. Nora, and 
Julius J. Dickerson, design architects of that agency. Carroll Lusk, 
museum lighting specialist of Syracuse, N.Y., provided valuable con- 
sultative assistance to designers of exhibition halls for the Museum of 
History and Technology. George Weiner, with the assistance of 
Constance Minkin, Basil Andronicos, and Edna Owens, continued the 
editing of the curator's drafts of exhibit labels. 

DOCENT SERVICE 

The Junior League of Washington continued its outstanding 
volunteer guided tour program for schools within the Greater Wash- 
ington area, with the cooperation of G. Carroll Lindsay, curator of 
the Smithsonian Museum Service, working with Mrs. Dean Cowie, 
chairman of the Smithsonian Volunteer Committee of the Jmiior 
League of Washington, and Mrs. E. Tillman Stirling, cochairman. At 
the conclusion of the tour season Mrs. Cowie was succeeded as chair- 
man by her cochairman, Mrs. Stirling. Mrs. Vernon Knight will 
serve as cochairman of the Docent Committee for the forthcoming 
year. 

During the 1960-61 season, tours were conducted in the Halls of 
Everyday Life in Early America, Native Peoples of the Americas, 
Gems and Minerals, Textiles, and Power. Tours in each of the halls 
were scheduled twice each day, 5 days a week from October through 
January. In February tours were offered four times daily in the Plalls 
of Everyday Life in Early America and Native Peoples of the 
Americas, while they were continued in the other three halls on the 
same schedule of twice daily. Tours were conducted through April. 

A total of 579 tours were conducted, in which 16,207 children par- 
ticipated. This represents a marked increase over last year's par- 
ticipation. It is important to express in this report the deep gratitude 
of all connected with the Smithsonian for the notable service to the 
community and the Institution given by these able and dedicated 
volunteer workers. 

In addition to Mrs. Cowie and Mrs. Stirling, the members of the 
Docent Committee were: Mrs. George Armstrong, Mrs. A. Stuart 
Baldwin, Mrs. William Dixon, Mrs. William Ford, Mrs. Clark Gear- 
hart, Mrs. George Gerber, Mrs. Everett Hutchinson, Mrs. Charles 
Kelly, Mrs. Vernon Knight, Mrs. Edward Lamont, Mrs. Ralph Lee 
III, Mrs. Dickson Loos, Mrs. John E, Malone, Mrs. John Manfuso, 
Mrs. Ernest May, Mrs. William McClure, Mrs. Robert McCormick, 
Mrs. Arnold McKinnon, Mrs. Peter Macdonald, Mrs. Joseph Metcalf, 
Mrs. William Minshall, Mrs. Minot Mulligan, Mrs. James Rasbury, 
Mrs. Robert Rogers, Mrs. W. James Sears, Mrs. William Sloan, Mrs. 
Walter Slowinski, Mrs. James Stallings, Mrs. Jolm Voorhees, Mrs. 
Richard Wallis, and Mrs. Marc White. 



46 ANNTJAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

BUILDINGS AND EQUIPMENT 

On May 19, 1961, the cornerstone of the Museum of History and 
Teclinology was laid, with the Kegents of the Smithsonian Institution 
and members of the Joint Congressional Committee participating in 
placing the mortar for the stone. The Honorable Earl Warren, Chief 
Justice of the United States Supreme Court and Chancellor of the 
Smithsonian Institution, together with Senator Clinton P. Anderson, 
Kegent of the Smithsonian Institution and Chairman of the Joint 
Congressional Committee for the Museum of History and Technology, 
spoke of the history and purpose of the new building. At the close 
of the fiscal year the building was approximately 50 percent complete. 

A contract was awarded for the construction of the east wmg exten- 
sion as well as alterations and air conditioning of the existing Natural 
History Building January 3, 1961, to the George Hyman Construction 
Co. Construction was started January 6, 1961, and the project on 
June 30, 1961 was 17.5 percent complete. This east wing extension 
will provide 195,000 net square feet of needed space for workrooms 
and laboratories for the scientific work of the Museum of Natural 
History. 

In the Museum of Natural History, an additional 1,152 square feet 
of floor area has been added to the division of marine invertebrates 
by the installation of second-floor levels in rooms 82, 83, and 83B. 
Additional lighting, utilities, and air-conditioning equipment have 
been provided. A second-floor level has been installed in the supply 
division stockroom adding approximately 1,496 square feet to this 
area. The mineral hall has been repainted and the floor in the jade 
hall has been restored to its original finish. The deteriorated plaster 
in the north stairway has been removed and replaced, and all surfaces 
have been repainted. Additional space has been provided for the 
exhibits laboratory in the west court. 

In the Arts and Industries Building, all loose, damaged plaster 
has been removed from the north entrance, surfaces replastered, and 
the entire area repainted. The hall of military history has been 
completely redecorated. 

The buildings management department furnished the custodial and 
mechanical services which included the installation of needed new 
doors, rewiring exhibit cases, and the improvement of the security 
alarm system. 

CHANGES IN ORGANIZATION AND STAFF 

Effective June 16, 1961, the title of the division of industrial co- 
operation in the department of arts and manufactures within the 
Museum of History and Technology of the United States National 
Museum was changed to the division of manufactures and heavy 
industries. 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 47 

Frank M. Setzler, head curator of the department of anthropology, 
retired December 31, 1960, after 30 years service. Dr. Herbert Fried- 
mann, head curator of the department of zoology, retired May 31, 
1961, after 32 years service. Dr. Friedraann is now director of the 
Los Angeles County Museum. 

Charles G. Dorman, assistant curator of political history, trans- 
ferred to the National Park Service, effective July 9, 1960. Dr. David 
H. Dunkle, associate curator of vertebrate paleontology, transferred 
to the U.S. Geological Survey on September 18, 1960. Dr. Anthony 
N. B. Garvan, head curator of the department of history, resigned 
October 16, 1960, to accept a professorship at the University of Penn- 
sylvania. John D. Shortridge, associate curator of cultural history, 
resigned June 1, 1961. Eugene S. Ferguson, curator of mechanical 
and civil engineering, resigned June 23, 1961, to accept a professor- 
ship at Iowa State University, Ames, Iowa. Dr. William J. King, 
curator of electricity, resigned June 23, 1961, to accept an appoint- 
ment with the American Institute of Physics, New York City. 

Dr. Eichard H. Rowland was appointed head curator of the depart- 
ment of civil history, effective November 7, 1960. The head curator 
vacancy in the department of anthropology w'as filled by the promo- 
tion of Dr. T. Dale Stewart, effective March 5, 1961. Eugene N. 
Ostroff accepted an appointment as associate curator in charge of 
the section of photography, division of graphic arts, on July 25, 
1960. Dr. Oliver S. Flint, Jr., was appointed associate curator of 
insects, effective January 1, 1961. Dr. Thomas E. Soderstrom was 
appointed effective October 3, 1960, assistant curator of grasses. 

Eespectfully submitted. 

Eeminqton Kellogg, Director. 

Dr. Leonard Carmichael, 
Secretary^ Smithsonian Institution. 



Report on the Bureau of American 
Ethnology 

Sir : I have the honor to submit the following report on the field 
researches, office work, and other operations of the Bureau of Amer- 
ican Ethnology during the fiscal year ended June 30, 1961, conducted 
in accordance with the act of Congress of April 10, 1928, as amended 
August 22, 1949, which directs the Bureau "to continue independently 
or in cooperation anthropological researches among the American 
Indians and the natives of lands under the jurisdiction or protection 
of the United States and the excavation and preservation of arche- 
ologic remains." 

SYSTEMATIC RESEARCHES 

Dr. Frank H. H. Roberts, Jr., Director of the Bureau, devoted a 
portion of the year to general supervision of the activities of the 
Bureau and the River Basin Surveys. In midsummer he inspected 
the work of excavating parties operating in the Big Bend and Oahe 
Reservoir areas in South Dakota and a portion of the Oahe Basin 
in North Dakota, as well as a field party working in the Wilson 
Reservoir area in Kansas. Three of the parties represented the River 
Basin Surveys and three were from cooperating agencies. In addi- 
tion. Dr. Roberts visited one excavation that was not a part of the 
salvage program. The work at that location consisted of investiga- 
tions in the remains of Fort Kearney, Nebr., a historic army post 
being studied by the Nebraska State Historical Society. During part 
of the trip Dr. Roberts was accompanied by Dr. eTohn M. Corbett and 
Carroll A. Burroughs of the Washington office of the National Park 
Service, and during the entire trip by Paul L. Beaubien, regional 
archeologist. Region Three, National Park Service. "While at Pierre, 
S. Dak., the group took part in an informal conference attended by 
leaders of all the parties and many of their student helpers working 
in the Plains during the summer. A wide range of archeological 
problems in the Missouri Basin was discussed. 

In September Dr. Roberts went to Llesa Verde National Park 
where he served as chairman of the Advisory Group for the Wetherill 
Mesa Project, a cooperative undertaking between the National Park 
Service and the National Geographic Society. The group spent 3 
days discussing and inspecting the excavations underway in two large 
cliff ruins and studied the operations of the field laboratory handling 

48 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 49 

the materials recovered during the digging. Eecommendations were 
made pertaining to the continuance of the investigations and improve- 
ments in the handling and cataloging of specimens. 

In November Dr. Koberts went to Norman, Okla., to attend the 
Plains Conference for Archeology and participate in discussions re- 
lating to the history of the Indians in that general area. 

Early in April at Mule Creek, Wyo., Dr. Roberts made arrange- 
ments for establishing a camp and starting a series of excavations in a 
Paleo-Indian site — a cooperative project between the National Geo- 
graphic Society and the Smithsonian Institution. Upon the comple- 
tion of these activities he proceeded to Lawton, Okla., where he was 
the principal speaker at the dedication of the Museum for the Great 
Plains on April 9. Returning to the Washington office, he began 
preparations for sending a field party to the site at Mule Creek and 
in that connection left Washington early in Jmie for Lincoln, Nebr., 
where he was joined by Dr. William M. Bass, who was to be the chief 
field assistant, and several other members of the party. They picked 
up two vehicles and field equipment and proceeded to Mule Creek to 
set up camp, and on June 12 began excavations. Dr. Roberts re- 
mained with the party until June 19. The party, however, continued 
operations under Dr. Bass and was busy digging at the end of the fis- 
cal year. As a result of the work up to that time an extensive deposit 
of bison bones, probably representing an extinct species, and a number 
of artifacts have been recovered. The site is one that dates about 
9,000 years ago. 

Dr. Roberts completed a manuscript, "The Agate Basin Complex," 
which is to be published in Mexico in a volume containing articles 
about the Paleo-Indian. He also did the technical editing of a 
series of seven reports on archeological excavations and studies in 
three reservoir areas, to appear in Bulletin 185 of the Bureau of 
American Etlmology. 

At the beginning of the fiscal year, Dr. Henry B. Collins, anthro- 
pologist, was in Europe studying collections in the principal museums 
and attending two international anthropological congresses. He 
visited Lascaux and a number of other Paleolithic cave and rock shel- 
ter sites in the Dordogne region of France and examined Megalithic 
sites and monmnents in the Morbihan and Finistere districts of Brit- 
tany. Dr. Collins attended the 34th International Congress of Ameri- 
canists in Vienna, July 18-25, and the 6th International Congress of 
Anthropological and Ethnological Sciences in Paris, July 30- 
August 6. At the latter he presented a paper discussing the present 
status of evidence bearing on the origin of Eskimo culture. 

Dr. Collins continued to participate in the activities of the Arctic 
Institute of North Amercia as a member of its Board of Governors, 
as a member of the Publications Committee that supervises prepara- 



50 ANNTJAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

tion of the journal Arctic and two other publication series, and of the 
Research Committee that plans and supervises the Institute's exten- 
sive program of Arctic research. He also continued to serve as chair- 
man of the Directing Conunittee responsible for preparation of the 
Arctic Institute's Arctic Bibliography, a comprehensive work which 
abstracts and indexes the contents of publications in all fields of 
science, and in all languages, pertainmg to the Arctic and sub- Arctic 
regions of the world. Volume 9 of Arctic Bibliography (1,599 
pages), containing abstracts of 7,192 scientific publications on the 
Arctic, was published in September 1960. Of the publications ab- 
stracted in this volmne, 3,170 had appeared in English, 2,548 in Rus- 
sian, 790 m Swedish, Norwegian, and Danish, 338 in German, and 
346 in other languages. Volume 10, similar in size and content to 
volume 9, is in press, and work is proceeding on volume 11. 

The project wliich Dr. Collins organized last year for the purpose 
of translating Russian publications on the archeology, ethnology, 
and physical anthropology of northern Eurasia made progress under 
the editorship of Dr. Henry N. Michael of Temple University. The 
first volume to be completed is S. I. Rudenko's "The Ancient Culture 
of the Bering Sea Area and the Eskimo Problem," the only comprehen- 
sive Russian work on the archeology of northeastern Siberia. It is now 
in press and will appear as the first number in a special publication 
series of the Arctic Institute of North America. The Advisory Com- 
mittee, of wliich Dr. Collins is chairman, has selected material — 
monographs and shorter papers — for five additional volumes which 
are now being translated. The work is being carried out with the 
support of a grant from the National Science Foundation. 

Dr. Collins prepared a paper on the interrelationships of early 
Eskimo and pre-Eskimo cultures in Alaska, Canada, and Greenland 
and their affinities with Temperate Zone cultures in America and Asia 
to be published in a volume of the Special Publications series of the 
Arctic Institute of North America, and another paper on the environ- 
mental factors involved in the origin and development of Eskimo 
culture in the American Arctic. 

Dr. William C. Sturtevant, ethnologist, spent July and August 1960 
in Europe. He attended the 34th International Congress of Ameri- 
canists in Vienna and the 6th International Congress of Anthro- 
pological and Ethnological Sciences in Paris. The remainder of the 
period was spent in museum research. In 11 museums of England, 
Austria, France, the Netherlands, and Sweden Dr. Sturtevant studied 
several hundred early specimens collected from eastern North Ameri- 
can Indians. He located, described, and photographed many im- 
portant specimens and collections, mostly from the northeast — there 
are surprisingly few early southeastern specimens in Europe. To one 
familiar with collections in the United States the number and good 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 51 

condition of early northeastern Indian objects in Europe are striking. 

A secondary objective of Dr. Sturtevant's study in Europe was a 
search for possible European prototypes of modern eastern North 
American Indian artifacts. Although he visited seven museums of 
peasant and folklore materials, this project was less successful than 
the fii-st, both because of time limitations and because European col- 
lecting and research in some important categories of artifacts (e.g., 
basketry) are insufficiently developed. 

In November 1960, Dr. Sturtevant attended an informal conference 
on Iroquois research in New Haven, Conn., the annual meeting of the 
Southern Historical Association in Tulsa, Okla. (where he delivered 
a paper on "History, Ethnohistory, and Folk History : Seminole Ex- 
amples"), and the American Indian Ethnohistoric Conference in 
Bloomington, Ind. He also visited several museums and archival col- 
lections in Oklahoma City, Norman, and Tulsa. There are several 
important collections of southeastern Indian artifacts and documents 
in Oklahoma. 

Dr. Sturtevant also continued his research on various tribes of 
eastern North America. His paper "The Significance of Ethnological 
Similarities between Southeastern North America and the Antilles" 
was issued as Yale University Publications in Anthropology No. 64 
(1960), and shorter comments by him appeared in Bureau of American 
Ethnology Bulletin 180 and in Current Anthropology, vol. 2, No. 3 
(both 1961). A somewhat revised version of his "Anthropology as a 
Career" (Smithsonian Publication 4343) was issued October 7, 1960. 

Dr. "Wallace L. Chafe, linguist, completed work on two manuscripts. 
One of them, "Seneca Thanksgiving Eituals," which is in press as 
Bureau of American Ethnology Bulletin 183, contains important 
Seneca religious texts, as well as transcriptions of the music that 
accompanies one of the rituals. The other, "Handbook of the Seneca 
Language," a nontechnical description of Seneca orthography and 
grammar with an extensive glossary of Seneca terms encountered in 
the anthropological literature, will be published as a Bulletin of the 
New York State Museum. Dr. Chafe also continued the preparation 
of a Seneca dictionary. 

Beginning in October, Dr. Chafe mailed over 600 questionnaires in 
a survey of the approximate numbers and ages of speakers of the 
extant North American Indian languages. These were addressed to 
individuals who have had contact with the various Indian groups. 
The responses have been numerous and informative, and efforts are 
now being made to fill in the gaps. Fieldwork for the project is 
being conducted in cooperation with the American Philosophical 
Society. 

Dr. Chafe spent considerable time throughout the year processing 
Arikara and Caddo linguistic material already collected and preparing 



52 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

to do further j&eldwork on Caddo. He was also fortunate in being 
able to do some work with a speaker of Oklahoma Cherokee living 
in Washington. 

RIVER BASIN SURVEYS 

The Kiver Basin Surveys, a unit of the Bureau of American Eth- 
nology organized to cooperate with the National Park Service and 
the Bureau of Reclamation of the Department of the Interior and 
the Corps of Engineers of the Department of the Army in the Inter- 
Agency Archeological and Paleontological Salvage Program, con- 
tinued its activities throughout the year. Attention was directed to 
areas that are to be flooded or otherwise destroyed by the construction 
of large dams in the various river systems of the United States. 
The year's investigations were supported by a transfer of $123,895 
from the National Park Service to the Smithsonian Institution. Of 
that sum, $103,895 was for work in the Missouri Basin and $20,000 for 
studies along the Chattahoochee River in Alabama and Georgia. On 
July 1, 1960, the Missouri Basin Project had a carryover of $9,420, 
and that, with the new appropriation, provided a total of $113,315 
for the Missouri Basin Project. The grand total of funds available 
in 1960-61 for the River Basin Surveys was $133,315. 

Activities in the field were mainly concerned with excavations, al- 
though there were some limited surveys in two areas. The funds 
available for the last fiscal year were slightly greater than those 
for the preceding one, but because of increased costs there was little 
gain in the amount of work accomplished. On July 1, 1960, there 
were three excavating parties working in the Missouri Basin in South 
Dakota. One of them was digging sites in the Big Bend Reservoir 
area, and the other two were working in the Oahe Reservoir area 
farther north. The Missouri Basin parties completed their field 
activities the latter part of August and returned to the headquarters 
at Lincoln, Nebr. 

In September a party resumed explorations and excavations along 
the Chattahoochee River in Alabama and subsequently extended its 
efforts to the Georgia side of the river in the Walter F. George 
Reservoir area. Work continued there until the end of December. 
During October a small party spent a brief period investigating a site 
that was being destroyed by gravel operations in the upper reaches 
of the Big Bend Reservoir area in South Dakota and also collected 
material from the immediate construction areas of the Big Bend Dam. 

The 1961 field season got under way in May, when a small party 
went to the Merritt Reservoir area in Nebraska to make a final check 
on possible archeological manifestations at that location. Two pre- 
vious surveys there had failed to reveal cultural materials, but it was 
thought that because of shifting sand dunes and construction activities 
something previously missed might have been uncovered. Nothing 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 53 

of that nature was found, and the party moved to the Big Bend area 
in South Dakota where it was expanded and began a series of excava- 
tions in some burial mounds. A second party went to the Big Bend 
area on June 13 and started excavations in a large village site on the 
west side of the river 4 miles above the dam site. A third party 
started working on the west side of the Missouri Eiver in the Oahe 
Reservoir Basin on June 19. It was digging in a large village site 
located about 5 miles south of Mobridge, S. Dak. All three parties 
had the season's program well imder way and were busily digging 
at the close of the fiscal year. During the fiscal year, 11 parties repre- 
senting institutions cooperating in the Missouri Basin program worked 
in four reservoir areas in Kansas, Nebraska, and South Dakota. 
There were 24 parties from cooperating institutions working in other 
basins throughout the country. 

As of June 30, 1961, the River Basin Surveys had carried on 
reconnaissance work or had excavated in 255 reservoir basins located 
in 29 States. In addition, two lock projects and four canal areas have 
been examined. During the years since the program got under way 
4,952 sites have been located and recorded, and of that number 1,157 
were reconmiended for excavation or limited testing. Because com- 
plete excavation has not been possible in any but a few exceptionally 
small ones, when the term "excavation" is used it implies digging 
only as much of a site as is thought essential to provide a reasonable 
sample of the materials and information to be found there. Prelim- 
inary appraisal reports have been issued for most of the reservoir 
areas which were surveyed. In some cases no archeological manifes- 
tations were noted and no general report was issued. During the past 
fiiscal year no new reconnaissance work was undertaken and no such 
reports were distributed. 

By the end of the fiscal year, 519 sites in 54 reservoir areas located 
in 19 different States had either been tested or dug sufficiently to 
provide good information about them. The sites in which digging 
has been done cover a wide range of cultural characteristics. Some 
of them pertain to early hunting and gathering peoples of about 
10,000 years ago, while others represent communities lived in by 
early historic Indians and the remains of frontier, army, and trading 
posts of European origin. Between the two extremes are a series of 
sites attributable to sedentary horticultural groups extending from 
approximately the 6th to the 13th centuries A.D. 

Reports on the work have been published in the Smithsonian Insti- 
tution Miscellaneous Collections, in Bulletins of the Bureau of Ameri- 
can Ethnology, and in various scientific journals and historical quar- 
terlies. Bulletin 176, containing River Basin Surveys Papers Nos. 
15-20, was distributed in December 1960. These papers consist of 
a series of reports on historic sites excavated in the Garrison, Oahe, 



54 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

and Fort Randall Eeservoir areas in North and South Dakota. Bulle- 
tin 179, containing River Basin Surveys Papers Nos. 21-24, a series 
of reports on work in Texas, Iowa, and along the Columbia River, is 
in proof form and should be distributed in the early part of the next 
fiscal year. The papers in that Bulletin were listed in the report for 
1959-60 and need no further comment here. During the year, River 
Basin Surveys Paper No. 25, a report on the "Archeology of the John 
H. Kerr Reservoir Basin, Roanoke River, Virginia-North Carolina," 
by Carl F. Miller, was sent to the printer and will appear as Bulletin 
182. Another series of River Basin Surveys Papers, Nos. 26-32, to 
comprise Bulletin 185, was edited and sent to the printer in June. 
These reports are: "Small Sites in and about Fort Berthold Indian 
Reservation, Garrison Reservoir, North Dakota" and "Star Village: 
A Fortified Historic Arikara Site in Mercer County, North Dakota," 
by George Metcalf ; "The Dance Hall of the Santee Bottoms on the 
Fort Berthold Reservation, Garrison Reservoir, North Dakota," by 
Donald D. Hartle; "Crow-Flies-High (32MZ1), a Historic Hidatsa 
Village in the Garrison Reservoir Area, North Dakota," by Carling 
Malouf ; "The Stutsman Focus: An Aboriginal Culture Complex in 
the Jamestown Reservoir Area, North Dakota," by Richard P. 
Wheeler; "Archeological Manifestations in the Toole County Section 
of the Tiber Reservoir Basin, Montana," by Carl F. Miller; "Archeo- 
logical Salvage Investigations in the Lovewell Reservoir Area, Kan- 
sas," by Robert W. Neuman. 

The figures showing the distribution of reservoir projects through- 
out the country and those in which excavations have been made did not 
change during the current fiscal year and for that reason need not be 
repeated. Readers desiring that information can obtain it by re- 
ferring to the Bureau's 77th Annual Report, for the fiscal year 1959- 
60. The excavations conducted during the present fiscal year were 
all in reservoir areas previously listed. Figures pertaining to the 
work done by State and local institutions under agreements with the 
National Park Service have not been included in recent reports be- 
cause complete information about them is not available in the River 
Basin Surveys office. 

The River Basin Surveys received helpful cooperation throughout 
the year from the National Park Service, the Bureau of Reclamation, 
the Corps of Engineers and other army personnel, and from various 
State and local institutions. The field personnel of all the cooperat- 
ing agencies assisted the party leaders in numerous ways, and in all 
areas the relationship was excellent. Both in Washington and in 
the field the National Park Service continued to serve as a liaison 
between the various agencies. It also was responsible for the prepa- 
ration of estimates and justifications for the funds needed to carry 
on the salvage program. The Commanding Officer at Fort Benning 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 55 

in Georgia provided, valuable assistancei in numerous ways wliile 
investigations were being made in the portion of the Walter F. George 
Reservoir basin which lies in the Fort Benning Reservation. In addi- 
tion, the Georgia Historical Commission, the University of Georgia, 
and various local clubs and groups of citizens in both Alabama and 
Georgia assisted the leader of the River Basin Surveys party while 
he was working along the Chattahoochee River. In the Missouri 
Basin the project engineers for the Oahe Reservoir provided space 
for temporary living accommodations and also for the storage of 
equipment. In a number of cases the construction agency lent mechan- 
ical equipment which was most helpful in the stripping of the topsoil 
from sites and the backfilling of trenches and test pits. In the IVIis- 
souri Basin the Corps of Engineers also cooperated with the staff of 
the Missouri Basin Project of the River Basin Surveys in the prepara- 
tion of a number of small informative pamphlets telling about several 
of the reservoirs along the Missouri River. 

General supervision of the program was from the main office in 
Washington, but the activities in the Missouri Basin operated from 
the field headquarters and laboratory at Lincoln, Nebr. At the be- 
ginning of the year the latter provided office assistance and some 
equipment for the Chattahoochee River Project, but subsequently most 
of that activity was transferred to the main office in Washington. 
The Lincoln laboratory processed all the materials collected by ex- 
cavating parties in the Missouri Basin and also some of those from 
the Chattahoochee. 

Washington o-ffice. — Dr. Frank H. H. Roberts, Jr., continued to 
direct the main headquarters of the River Basin Surveys at the Bureau 
of American Etlmology throughout the year. Carl F. Miller, arche- 
ologist, was based at that office and from time to time assisted the 
Director in some of the general administrative problems. Harold A. 
Huscher, archeologist, worked under the general supervision of the 
Washington office, but at the beginning of the fiscal year was based 
on the field headquarters for the Missouri Basin Project at Lincoln, 
Nebr. After completing his field activities along the Chattahoochee 
River, Alabama-Georgia, in late December, he joined the Washington 
office and continued to work there the remainder of the fiscal year. 

Mr. Miller spent the entire time in the Washington office working 
on materials and data he had collected during previous seasons in 
the field. He spoke before various groups interested in archeological 
subjects and answered numerous inquiries pertaining to artifacts and 
cultural materials from the southeastern archeological area. He also 
identified artifacts from 15 collections of southeastern material. In 
October he attended the sessions of the Eastern States Archeological 
Federation in Toronto, Canada, and in May he presented a paper on 

625325—62 5 



56 ANKUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

"The Archeology of the Clarksville Site, 44 Mc 14, Mecklenburg 
County, Virginia," before a joint session of the xlrcheological Societies 
of Virginia and North Carolina held at Claiksville. He completed a 
short paper, "The Physical Structure of Rock Mound at 9 ST 3, 
Georgia," which was published in Southern Indian Studies, vol. 11, 
pp. 16-19. Mr. Miller furnished data that were used in the prepara- 
tion of the "Ethnological Map of Virginia," which was published by 
Hearn Brothers, Detroit, Mich. 

At the beginning of the fiscal year Harold A. Huscher, while on 
annual leave, assisted Dr. Richard G. Forbis, Glenbow Foundation, 
Calgary, Alberta, in the excavation of the remains of a fortified earth- 
lodge village at Cluny in the Blackfoot Reserve on the Bow River 
about 65 miles east of Calgary. Returning from Canada he drove 
south by way of the front ranges and the high plains, visiting a number 
of the more important Early Man-type sites, such as those at Sage- 
creek and Agate Basin in Wyoming, Dent and Apex Spring in Col- 
orado, and Homo Novusmundus in New Mexico. In mid-August 
he returned to duty at Lincoln, Nebr., where he made preparations for 
resuming the archeological investigations in the Walter F. George Dam 
and Lock area along the Chattahoochee River. Shortly after his 
arrival at Euf aula, Ala,, at the end of August, he started his fieldwork. 
After returning to the Washington office in January he devoted his 
time to bringing up to date the several years' backlog of maps and field 
notes pertaining to the Chattahoochee investigations. In May the 
processed collections of the two previous years' fieldwork in Alabama- 
Georgia were moved from Lincoln to Washington for storage at the 
U.S. National Museum, and Mr. Huscher proceeded to combine that 
material with the collections he had made during the current season. 
At the close of the fiscal year he was busy selecting bone and shell 
specimens and items pertaining to the early colonial period for iden- 
tification by various Smithsonian specialists. 

Alabama-Georgia. — During the period from mid-September to the 
end of December Llarold A. Huscher, using a power-driven screen of 
%-inch mesh and a small crew of local laborers, tested a series of 
15 sites below Eufaula, Ala., in the southwestern quadrant of the 
Walter F. George Reservoir Basin. Most of the sites fall into two 
general classes. The first group consists of those with a predominance 
of Mississippian pottery, characterized by the early Mississippian 
globular pots with loop handles, comparable to the Macon Plateau 
types in Georgia and the Gordon types in Tennessee. Such pottery 
actually has a long time span, continuing down to the opening of the 
historic period (Pinellas, Fort Walton). The second group includes 
sites with an overlay of late Creek pottery such as the Chattahoochee 
Brushed variants and Kasihta Red-film in association with trade 
metal, china, and glass. 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 57 

Most major sites in this reservoir, however, are proving to be in 
the multiple-component category with several time levels represented. 
The stratification is usually gradational rather than sharply demar- 
cated, hence the digging is by arbitrary levels. At sites favorably 
located on the terrace points near stream junctions, underlying Early 
Woodland and Archaic manifestations usually will be definitely iden- 
tifiable, though not sharply separable, at depths of 2.0-5.0 feet below 
the present surface. The following are the most important sites in- 
vestigated during the fall season : 

The Spann's Landing site, 1HE34, is located in Alabama 3 miles 
above the dam axis, in a loop of the Chattahoochee River opposite 
Grace's Bend, and a little more than a mile below the Mandeville 
Mound site (ICLAI) ^ in Clay County, Ga. This site extends for 
more than 800 feet along the crest of a low natural levee, with the 
greatest concentration of material at the north or upstream end. 
A series of 14 squares 10-x-lO feet were laid out there in two rows, 
so spaced as to give an adequately distributed sampling. Of the 
14 squares, 8 pits were actually dug, to varying depths down to 5.0 
feet. There is a sparse overlay of brushed pottery, indicating some 
use of the area during the Late Creek period, but the most intense 
occupation was during Mississippian times, and probably fairly early 
Mississippian times, as indicated by the pottery remains. One pro- 
ductive cache pit yielded parts of several pots of the Pinellas arcaded 
ware ("pumpkin pot," "melon pot"), a type described from Florida 
and attributed to a late peripheral Mississippian manifestation. It 
is, however, considered diagnostic of a possibly earlier Mississippian 
period as described by Caldwell for the great Eood's Landing site 
(9SW1), 30 miles farther north, and the Mississippian cap on the 
large Mandeville Mound (Stark's Clay Landing, 9CLA1), as reported 
by McMichael and Kellar. Along the Chattahoochee the arcaded pots 
with temper and handle variants may have a much longer time range, 
apparently continuous, than in Florida, extending back to the earlier 
Macon Plateau period, with the Singer-Moye site (9SW2), south of 
Lumpkin on the headwaters of Pataula Creek, one of the earliest 
major sites. At depths of 2.5-4.0 feet below the present surface at 
Spann's Landing, fiber-tempered pottery comparable to the Stallings 
Island and Orange Plain types of the latest Archaic and earliest 



* Site designations used by the River Basin Surveys are trinomial in char- 
acter, consisting of symbols for State, County, and site. The State is indicated 
by the first number, according to the numerical position of the State name in 
an alphabetical list of the United States ; thus, for example, 32 indicates North 
Dakota, 39 indicates South Dakota. Counties are designated by a two-letter 
abbreviation; for example, ME for Mercer County, MN for Mountrail County, 
etc. The final number refers to the specific site within the indicated State 
and County. 



58 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

Woodland occurred consistently, as well as early point types, the 
latter regularly consisting of the decomposed flint first described 
from the Macon area by Kelly. 

1HE51, a site in Alabama at the junction of Hardridge Creek and 
the Chattahoochee Kiver, 2.5 miles above the dam axis, was tested 
by six 10-foot squares, ranging in depth down to 5 feet. The pre- 
dominant occupation there was Early Woodland, with fiber-tempered, 
Deptford, and Swift Creek pottery types recognized. However, no 
productive pit area was located. A number of large, heavy-stemmed 
projectile points, again in the decomposed flint characteristic of the 
Archaic in this area, were recovered from the deeper levels. Several 
less important sites near Hardridge Creek were tested by from one 
to six 10-foot squares, to obtain a broad spectrum sample of the range 
of pottery in the area. One site, 1HE56, yielded a number of sherds of 
all-over fingernail-incised pottery, the only site where this specialty 
has risen to a significant frequency. 

Somewhat farther north, between White Oak and Cheneyhatchee 
Creeks, another series of sites was tested in order to check on ex- 
posures of Chattahoochee Brushed pottery, since a Late Creek village, 
Okitiyakni, had supposedly been somewhere in the general area. 
1BR46, 47, and 2A were found to yield significant amounts of 
brushed pottery, and one area of pits was located at 46. There a large 
fragment of a restorable pot, which agrees closely with published 
descriptions of the Late Creek ware from the Southeast and from 
Oklahoma, was found in direct association with trade metal. Eleven 
squares in all were dug at these sites, but no structural remains were 
identified. Eight 10-x-lO-foot squares were dug at five other nearby 
locations, but information recovered was less important. One site 
at the south side of Barbour Creek (IBRIO) was checked by four 
10-x-lO-f oot squares, and consistently found to yield Gulf Woodland 
forms, some in direct association with a level of basin-shaped hearths. 
One of the latter was filled with irregular fist-sized fragments of 
burned clay, possibly fired for use as cooking "stones" or to provide 
pottery temper. 

In November 1960 an immediate salvage job became necessary on 
Hatcheechubbee Creek, in Russell County, Ala., some 17 miles north 
of Eufaula, where a highway relocation project was destroying an 
Early Woodland site, 1RU74. Known as the Kite site, it was dis- 
covered in 1959 by Sergeant David W. Chase. It lay on a point of 
terrace between the creek and a small unnamed spring branch from 
the north. There four 10-foot squares were laid out parallel to the 
right-of-way and taken down to depths up to 5 feet. The upper 
layers yielded several types of Early Woodland sherds of the Dept- 
ford and Swift Creek series, and a considerable range of thick fiber- 
tempered sherds (Stallings, Orange) was obtained at slightly lower 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 59 

levels. A series of stone artifacts was obtained in the deeper part of 
the tests. They consisted of the very characteristic decomposed flint 
of the Ai^chaic. Several burned rock areas were noted, but no pits 
were found. The site, though not rich, was interesting in that there 
was much less intrusion from above, with the close mixing of time 
periods that makes some of the larger, more productive sites so 
confusing. 

Beginning November 19, the remaining time was devoted to work 
on two mound sites. Trenched previously, they were 9QU1, and 
9QU5, south of Georgetown, Ga., in Quitman County. 

9QU1, Moore's "Mounds near Georgetown, Quitman County, 
Georgia" (Mounds of Lower Chattahoochee and Lower Flint Rivers, 
Journ. Acad. Nat. Sci. Philadelphia, 2d ser. vol. 13, pt. 3, pp. 426-456, 
448), locally called the "Gary's Fishpond Mound" or the "Gary's 
Fishpond Site," consists of extensive village remains and a large low 
mound, now almost completely plowed down and carried away. The 
site was tested in the spring of 1960 by digging a T-trench along the 
east margin of the mound, and seven 10-x-lO-foot trenches in the 
adjacent village areas. Although actually only the roots of the 
mound are left, it appeared desirable to attempt to determine more 
exactly the period of its building. Since the outwash apron of the 
mound was found to be intact, it seemed the site offered an oppor- 
tunity for getting direct separation of mound, mound fill, and pre- 
mound periods, with the additional prospect of locating separate pits 
or features that would give individual "pure" samples. 

The original gi-id was reset and a larger area in the western half of 
the mound remnants was stripped, revealing the roots of a circular 
mound faced with clay. It probably was originally about 200 feet in 
circumference at the base. A section trench cut through the western 
margin revealed that the clay facing had been carefully built up at 
a steep angle. The actual base of the mound was about 4 feet below 
the present surface in this area. A palisade of spaced large-diameter 
posts followed just outside the curve of this clay wall, but the posts 
did not appear to have been set into the wall. The indications were 
of some sort of a clay-faced "caracol" type mound. Additional 
bedding lines outside the circular periphery indicated a possibility 
that some kind of overlying rectangular mound had been built on the 
core of the original circular mound. An area 20-X-20 feet was ex- 
cavated in mottled fill in the calculated center of the circular mound 
revealing numbers of post holes in interrupted alignments, running 
NW.-SE. and NE.-SW., though no clearly defined structure could 
be made out. Because of increasing inclemency of the weather the 
planned excavation of this center pit down into the submound could 
not be completed in the available time and the site was closed down. 



60 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

However, additional work is certainly indicated for that location and 
will be scheduled for the early part of the new field season. 

Several lots of midden excavated in the central 20-x-20-foot pit 
contain a high frequency of a carefully finished plain ware with 
thickened rims and no handles. This does not seem to be the local 
Weeden Island type, but may be evidence of contacts with or an actual 
occupation of the site by Early Mississippian peoples carrying a 
culture somewhat like that which becomes Coles Creek and Mound- 
ville farther west. If such were the case, the overlying rectangular 
structure would then relate to the later Fort Walton-Lamar period 
which seems to account for the greater part of the pottery from this 
site. The one recognizable structural pattern found, other than the 
mound, was located in the nearby village and consisted of large post 
holes at spaced intervals, outlining a corner and two adjacent walls 
of what was probably a house of the later period. 

Additional work was done at 9QU5, a site refeiTed to locally as the 
"Mound on the Lower Lampley Place" or the "Mound below Cool 
Branch." For brevity the site and mound will be referred to as the 
"Cool Branch Mound Site." This site had been tested previously by 
a 5-foot trench from the east margin to the approximate center of the 
mound. The mound proper was built of basket-loaded clay, appar- 
ently at one single stage of building, and there was a submound post- 
hole pattern indicating some sort of premound building. 

Thirteen additional 10-x-lO-foot test pits were dug at this site, 
eight in an east- west line across the north margin, paralleling the edge 
of the terrace, and five bracketing the mound proper. Using a tractor 
scraper, the surface of the mound was stripped, revealing the approxi- 
mate edges of a regular rectangular clay-platform mound, with the 
corners oriented to the cardinal points. The mound was then bull- 
dozed away to a level approximately 0.5 foot above the contact of the 
clay mound with the underlying river-silt surface of the terrace, as 
determined in the previous trenching. The center of the mound was 
then cleared by hand shoveling, revealing the post holes of a rectangu- 
lar submound structure of closely set posts, comers closed, approxi- 
mately 27-X-36 feet over all. This building was oriented with the 
overlying mound, though lying partly outside the baseline on the 
northwest side. As nearly as could be determined from the bulldozed 
surface without actually tracing out the lines by shoveling, the south- 
west margin being the least certain, the original base dimensions of 
the mound were about 55-X-55 feet. At the center of the submound 
structure was a pile of red iron ore (hematite) probably representing 
a symbolic ceremonial fire. The sand beneath was stained red but did 
not seem actually to have been burned. Two beautiful spud celts, one 
of a fine-grained greenstone, were found together in the mound fill 
about a foot above the contact. Both had been broken by the bull- 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 61 

dozing. The spud is commonly found in Mississippian mound sites 
westward to the Mississippi River. 

A 5-x-lO-foot test below the actual submound level revealed wall 
trenches of a rectangular open-cornered building, oriented NE.-SW., 
and in one of the series of 10-x-lO-foot trenches, 75 feet southeast of 
the main mound, a straight section of wall trench was found. These 
features could not be examined further in the time available. Another 
test 400 feet northwest of the mound center and about 100 feet back 
from the terrace edge, also uncovered a house- wall trench at depths 
of 1.5 to 2.0 feet. Using a tractor, about a thousand square feet were 
stripped, tracing out the wall lines, but time did not permit complete 
study of the patterns. Rectangular, open-cornered houses, closely 
spaced but apparently not adjoining, were arranged in rows running 
NE.-SW. Hearths appeared to be in the forecourt to the southeast, 
rather than within the houses. No clearly defined occupation floor 
could be identified, hence the associations are not certain. Most of 
the pottery from that part of the site seems earlier than the houses, 
which presumably slightly antedate the mound, but continue into the 
mound period, since there is no evidence of a later house type. House 
evidence is so difficult to obtain along the Chattahoochee River, how- 
ever, that negative evidence cannot be relied upon, and the known 
house areas at this site should be excavated further to get as complete 
house plan evidence as possible. 

During the field season parties from the University of Alabama and 
the University of Georgia, under agreements with the National Park 
Service, also worked at sites in the Walter F. George Reservoir area. 

Missouri River Basin — For the fifteenth consecutive year the Mis- 
souri Basin Project continued to operate from the field headquarters 
and laboratory in Lincoln, Nebr. Dr. Robert L. Stephenson served 
as chief of the project throughout the year. Activities included sur- 
veys, excavations, analysis of materials, and reporting on results. 
During the summer months the work was mamly concerned with 
excavations. Analyses and preparation of reports received the major 
attention throughout the other months of the year. The special 
chronology program begun in January 1958 continued to receive 
attention. 

At the beginning of the fiscal year the permanent staff, in addition 
to the chief, consisted of 3 archeologists, 1 administrative assistant, 1 
clerk-stenographer, 1 illustrator, 1 file clerk on the permanent staff, 
and 12 crewmen on the temporary staff. One paleontologist, on loan 
from the National Park Service, was added to the temporary staff 
for a month for the purpose of analyzing nonhuman bone material 
from the sites excavated over the past three seasons. In Jime, 2 
assistant field archeologists, 1 cook, and 25 field crewmen were added 
to the temporary staff. 



62 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

At the end of the fiscal year there were 3 archeologists in addition 
to the chief, 1 administrative assistant, 1 administrative clerk, 1 sec- 
retary, 1 scientific illustrator, 1 photographer, and 4 museum aides on 
the permanent staff, and 2 assistant field archeologists, 1 cook, and 25 
field crewmen on the temporary staff. 

During the year there were 10 Smithsonian Institution River Basin 
Surveys field parties at work in the Missouri Basin. Three of these 
were in the Oahe Reservoir area and two were in the Big Bend 
Reservoir area of South Dakota during July and August. One small 
field party conducted investigations during October and November in 
the Big Bend Reservoir area. One party investigated the Merritt 
Reservoir area in Nebraska during May and June. Two parties were 
excavating in the Big Bend Reservoir area and one in the Oahe 
Reservoir area during June. 

Other fieldwork in the Missouri Basin during the year included 
11 parties from State institutions operating under cooperative agree- 
ments with the National Park Service and in cooperation with the 
Smithsonian Institution in the Inter-Agency Archeological Salvage 
Program. 

There was a slight increase in appropriated funds for fiscal year 
1961, but since most of the new money was to cover wage-scale in- 
creases beginning in July, the fiscal situation brought into even sharper 
focus than before the critical problem of accomplishing the minimum 
necessary salvage at a time when two of the largest reservoirs. Big 
Bend and Oahe, were nearing completion and, in fact, Oalie was be- 
ginning to flood some of the important imexcavated archeological 
sites. However, when the parties took to the field in June it was 
possible to shift the methods of fieldwork from sampling of large 
numbers of sites back to the intensive excavation of a smaller number 
of key sites. The sampling techniques of the preceding two field 
seasons had been successful but some of the more intensive excavations 
were again needed. 

At the beginning of the fiscal year, Dr. Warren W. Caldwell and 
a crew of eight were engaged in minor test excavations at two sites 
in the Big Bend Reservoir of South Dakota. Site 39LM222, near 
the mouth of Medicine Creek, in Lyman County, was a diffuse village 
of the La Roche complex. A small, circular house with closely spaced 
wall posts, four center posts, and a long entry passage, lay just above 
an earlier structure of indeterminate pattern. A shallow ditch sur- 
rounding the deeper house suggested that the house itself may have 
formed a bastion, or strong point, in the fortification system. Seg- 
ments of both superimposed houses were excavated. Portions of a 
third house were also dug and it proved to have been a small, circular 
building differing little in structural details from the uppermost of 
the two superimposed houses. Pottery and other artifacts were 



Secretary's Report, 1961 



PLATE 1 




1. Use of power screen speeds testing ot sites in W alter t' . George Reservoir area, Aianania. 

River Basin Survevs. 




2. Tracing bottom edge of large mound along Chattahoochee River in Georgia, River 

Basin Survevs. 



Secretary's Report, 1961 



Plate 2 




rectangular earth lodge in Oahe Reserxnir area, Si>iith Dakota. Remains 
of posts are visible along left wall. River Basin Surve}-s. 








l'.\ca\ aniig l>asr ut low mound in Oahe Reservoir area in North Dakota. Bison remains 
buried with human bodies may be seen at left. Traces of logs at right cover human 
skeletons. River Basin Survejs. 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 63 

homogenous throughout the site, uidicating a single La Eoche-Iona- 
Kussell Ware tradition and but one occupation. This would place 
the village in the late sedentary-farmer period of the 15th to I7th 
centuries. The second site of the group, 39LM224, is located but a 
mile downstream from 39LM222, and represented another La Roche 
village of diffuse pattern, but with only four houses apparent from the 
surface. One of them, a bunied circular structure with widely spaced 
wall posts and long entry passage was partially excavated. 

On July 19, Dr. Caldwell moved to the Oahe Reservoir area in old 
Armstrong County (now a part of Dewey Comity), above the mouth 
of the Cheyenne River on the west bank of the Missouri, and hired a 
new crew of laborers. The Oahe Reservoir, already beginning to 
flood, had begun to cover some of the sites in that vicinity. One of 
those still above water was site 39AR201, the remains of a large com- 
pact village of 18 long-rectangular houses placed in rows but without 
apparent fortifications. The renmants of one of the structures were 
excavated and other tests were made in the site. This extremely long, 
narrow house had been nearly twice as long as it was wide and its 
ruins were covered by 4.5 feet of overburden. There had been a low 
bench along the rear wall into which a shallow trench had been dug to 
receive the rear wall posts. Dentalium, native copper, and abundant 
human bone scraps lay on the floor and an ochre-covered hmnan 
bundle burial associated with a bison skull was found in the southeast 
corner. Pottery was consistently Thomas Riggs Ware. Tliis site 
represented a village of the Thomas Riggs Focus of middle-period 
sedentary farmers in the Missouri Valley and may date from the 15th 
century. Less than 500 yards downstream the remains of another 
large Thomas Riggs village, site 39AR210, were tested and found to 
resemble 39AR201 in all respects except that there had been a rectan- 
gular, bastioned fortification system. This site had been flooded by the 
Oahe Reservoir and reexposed by a drop in the water level. Recovery 
of archeological details was minimal, owing to their having been 
obscured by the flood waters, but a good artifact sample was collected. 
The Caldwell party completed the season's work after 9 weeks in the 
field. 

The third River Basin Surveys party in the field at the beginning 
of the year, consisting of a crew of six under the direction of Robert 
W. Neuman, was excavating at the Boimdary Mound site (32SI1) on 
the North Dakota-South Dakota boundary line in the Oahe Reservoir 
area, Sioux County, N. Dak. The site consisted of four dome-shaped 
burial mounds, ranging from 3 to 5 feet in height and 60 to 80 feet in 
diameter. Three of the mounds were excavated. Each contained a 
rectangular central burial pit covered with timbers and lined with 
matting. Bison remains (skulls, partial skeletons, and complete 
skeletons in articulation) were found around the timbers. The burial 



64 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

pits were 3 to 4i/^ feet deep and contained from 6 to 14 secondary 
human burials, the bones of several being coated with red pigment. 
Artifacts were generally associated with a single individual in each 
pit. They included side-notched projectile points, triangular knives, 
bipointed drills, an obsidian end scraper, sandstone atlatl weights, a 
catlinite object, cigar-shaped bone objects, tubular bone beads, bone 
awls, a bone pendant, a bear canine pendant, shell pendants, and 
worked human mandibles as well as those from dogs and beaver. This 
mound group comprised burial tumuli of the Woodland period with 
relationships to the east and southeast of the area. They probably date 
from the period of 1,500 years ago and earlier. 

The Neuman party continued investigations in other burial-mound 
sites along the right bank of the Missouri Kiver between Mandan, 
N. Dak., and Mobridge, S. Dak. Site 32M0207 is a group of three 
mounds in Morton County, N. Dak., some 20 miles south of Mandan. 
One of them was excavated but yielded only a single secondary hu- 
man burial and no artifacts. The Schmidt site (32M020) is a group 
of eight burial mounds 12 miles south of Mandan in Morton County. 
One mound, 75 feet in diameter and 1.3 feet high, was excavated. It 
contained a single secondary human burial in a rectangular, central, 
timber-covered burial pit. Articulated bison bones lay near the 
charred timbers that had covered the pit. The only artifacts recovered 
were a few fragmentary stone tools from the surface near one of the 
unexcavated mounds. The Swift Bird site (39DW233) is a group of 
two burial mounds and three shallow, circular depressions. One of 
the mounds, 70 feet in diameter and 3 feet high, was excavated. A 
single primary burial lay on the mound floor. Artifacts associated 
with the burial include dentalium beads, a tubular bone bead, and a 
shell pendant in the shape of a thunderbird. It is of interest to note 
that no pottery was found in association with any of these burial 
mounds. The Neuman party completed the season's work on Septem- 
ber 1, after 12 weeks in the field. 

The fourth Missouri Basin Project field party at work at the begin- 
ning of the fiscal year was a crew of three, under the direction of G. 
Hubert Smith, investigating historic sites in the Oahe Reservoir area. 
Activities at the site of Fort Sully (39SL45) in Sully County consisted 
of excavations of building foundations and refuse dumps and latrine 
pits in several parts of the site. Pits dug near the hospital and the 
barroom locations were particularly informative. The excavations 
provided detailed outlines of some of the main structures of this mili- 
tary post of the 1866-94 period. They also produced one of the largest 
known collections, obtained under controlled conditions, of military 
and civil objects of this period. Especially noteworthy is a large 
array of glassware, including "art glass," hundreds of bottles, medical- 
department glassware, and household glass. Many of these objects 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 65 

are complete or little damaged and are marked as to origin or pur- 
pose. Objects of earthenware in great quantity, including Oriental 
earthenware, and numerous items of metal and leather were recovered. 
Strictly military objects are in the minority but unusual items of 
both military and civilian use will form a valuable comparative col- 
lection and future exhibit material. Even specimens of printer's 
type, for printing official orders, were found. 

Investigations at the site of Fort Bennett (1870-91) in Stanley 
County, directly opposite Fort Sully, having been abandoned in June 
owing to flooding by the Oahe Keservoir, were resimied in August 
when the pool level had receded somewhat. The site was uncovered 
but the ground was so thoroughly waterlogged that excavation was 
impractical. Photographs were take for record purposes and some 
historic specimens were collected. The experience gained there, as at 
other flooded sites, clearly emphasizes the hopelessness, in a great 
majority of cases, of trying to do archeological work in sites that have 
once been flooded and reexposed when the waters receded, whether the 
sites in question be historic or prehistoric. 

On August 10 the fifth Missouri Basin Project field party, con- 
sisting of Smith and his crew, moved into the Big Bend Keservoir 
area to conduct preliminary tests at site 39ST202, believed to be that 
of Fort George, a trading post of the 1840's. Only the scantiest con- 
temporary record of this post has been found, although it was visited 
by Audubon and is reputed to have been of some importance as an 
opposition post in the fur trade. Tests there located former log habi- 
tations and occupational debris of the period. The site is located in 
Stanley Coimty at the northeast corner of the Brule Indian Reserva- 
tion. This field party also took charge of an emergency excavation of 
six human burials accidentally located by construction activities at 
the Big Bend Dam site and reported by the Corps of Engineers. The 
interments were in wooden coffins and contained glass beads and other 
late objects suggesting the early reservation period, though no record 
of such graves has been found. The Smith party completed 9 weeks 
in the field and returned to Lincoln August 19. 

During the period October 26 to November 6, one Missouri Basin 
Project field party investigated a site being destroyed by gravel opera- 
tions in the upper reaches of the Big Bend Reservoir area. Robert 
W. Neuman and a crew of two examined and tested the areas of the 
Arzberger site (39HTJ6), which were being cut away as a gravel 
quarry. A rich midden and several cache pits were exposed and ex- 
cavated. Artifacts were collected and data compiled, but there aj>- 
peared to be little material that had not already been discussed in a 
report on this site. During the same period Neuman also made a 
flight over the lower portion of the Oahe Reservoir and took aerial 
photos of several sites that had been flooded and reexposed by a drop 



66 ANNTJAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

in the pool level. On the return trip to Lincoln this party also visited 
sites in the immediate construction area of the Big Bend Dam (at the 
request of the Corps of Engineers) and while there collected speci- 
mens for dendrochronological use. It also visited an earth-lodge vil- 
lage site near Wessington Springs, S. Dak., and examined several ama- 
teur collections in southwest Minnesota and northwest Iowa. 

The 1961 summer field season in the Missouri Eiver Basin began in 
the Merritt Reservoir area on May 25. Robert W. Neuman and an 
assistant spent 11 days in a final intensive search of the flood-pool area 
of this dam on the Snake River in Cherry County, Nebr. The dam 
is well along in construction and, despite two previous surveys that 
provided very little archeological evidence, it was thought that a final 
investigation should be made. The shifting sand dunes in this area, 
combined with the construction activities, might have revealed some 
cultural remains of the earlier periods. Such was found not to be the 
case and no archeological manifestations were noted. This reservoir 
area can be written off as completed. 

The second Missouri Basin Project field party consisted of a crew 
of nine under the direction of Robert W. Neuman. This party began 
work on Jime 6 in the construction area of the Big Bend Reservoir 
(actually the upper reaches of the Fort Randall Reservoir) at site 
39BF225. At that location there is a group of three low burial 
mounds situated on the terrace just west of the Talking Crow site 
(39BF3) in Buffalo County, S. Dak. By the end of the fiscal year 
Neuman had trenched two of these mounds and found three compo- 
nents present: (a) Historic with coffin burials, (b) the mound com- 
ponent with secondary pit burials, and (c) a premound, nonceramic 
component. 

The third Missouri Basin Project field party of the season was 
composed of a crew of 10 directed by Dr. "Warren W. Caklwell. It 
began work on June 13 at the Pretty Head site (39LM232). This 
site is located on the right bank of the Missouri River, 4 miles above 
the Big Bend Dam site in Lyman County, S. Dak. By the end of the 
year excavations were well under way in several middens, and in the 
remains of one long- rectangular house. 

The fourth Missouri Basm Project field party of the 1961 season 
was a crew of 10 directed by Dr. Robert L. Stephenson. This party 
began work on June 19 in the upper reaches of the Oahe Reservoir in 
Corson County, S. Dak., on the west side of tlie Missouri River some 5 
miles south of Mobridge. There a series of small sites extending from 
the Blue Blanket Island site (39 WW 9) downstream into Dewey 
County to site 39DW232 was to be investigated with intensive exca- 
vations at the Potts Village site (39C019) and the Le Compte Creek 
site (39DW234). The latter are the remains of circular house vil- 
lages with fortifications and suggest a possible link between the later 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 67 

part of the long-rectangular-house period and the earlier part of the 
circular-house period. The two main sites each appear to have a 
single bastion in the fortification system. Excavations were well 
underway by the end of the year. 

Cooperating mstitutions working m the Missouri Basin at the be- 
guining of the fiscal year included five field parties from State agen- 
cies in North Dakota, South Dakota, Nebraska, Kansas, and Missouri. 
W. Raymond Wood of the University of Oregon had a crew at work 
for the State Historical Society of North Dakota at the Huff site 
(32M011) in the upper reaches of the Oahe Reservoir some 18 miles 
below Mandan, N. Dak. Wood's party excavated eight houses and 200 
feet of palisade, and cross-sectioned the fortification ditch. This was 
the location of a fortified, bastioned village of long- rectangular houses 
with the houses loosely arranged in rows. One unusual house was 
nearly square and had four center posts comparable to the circular 
houses of other sites. Dr. Preston Holder of the University of Ne- 
braska had a crew at work at the Leavenworth site (39C09), 7 miles 
north of Mobridge in Corson County, S. Dak., in the Oahe Reservoir. 
This site, visited by Lewis and Clark in 1804 and attacked by Col. 
Henry Leavenworth in 1823, was an Arikara village (or pair of 
villages) of circular houses. Holder's crew excavated four houses and 
tested several midden areas. Dr. Wesley R. Hurt, Jr., with a Uni- 
versity of South Dakota crew, spent July and August excavating 
portions of the No Heart Creek site (39AR2) in old Armstrong 
County on the right bank of the Missouri River in the Oahe Reservoir. 
This small, compact, fortified, La Roche-type village had an unusual 
series of small bastions and entryways. Thomas A. Witty with a crew 
from the Kansas State Plistorical Society excavated four sites and 
tested several others in the Wilson Reservoir area on the Saline River 
m Russell and Lincoln Counties, Kans. All four excavated sites re- 
late to the Central Plains Phase. Dr. Carl H. Chapman had a Uni- 
versity of Missouri crew in the field surveying and testing sites in the 
Kasinger Bluff Reservoir on the Osage River in Henry, Benton, and 
St. Clair Coimties, west-central Missouri. 

At the end of the fiscal year six field parties representing four 
cooperating institutions were in the field in the Missouri Basin. Dr. 
Preston Holder was back at the Leavenworth site (39C09) in the Oahe 
Reservoir for a second season of work by the University of Nebraska. 
Dr. Carl H. Chapman was back at the Kasinger Bluff Reservoir in 
Missouri with a University of Missouri field party surveying and 
testing sites in that area. In addition. Chapman had a survey crew 
at work in the Stockton Reservoir area in Cedar and Dade Coimties, 
Mo. Thomas A. Witty had a crew at work excavating the Woods 
site (14CY30) and testing several other sites in the Mil ford Resen^oir 
on the Republican River in Geary County, Kans., for the Kansas 



68 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

State Historical Society. Dr. Wesley K. Hurt had a crew at work 
by boat, testing several sites being exposed by wave action along the 
shores of Lewis and Clark Lake (Gavins Point) and Fort Randall 
Reservoirs, for the University of South Dakota. Roger T. Grange had 
a crew from the Nebraska State Historical Society at work in the 
Red Willow Reservoir area in Frontier County, southwestern Ne- 
braska, excavating two sites near the dam construction area. All 
the parties mentioned above were operating under agreements with 
the National Park Service and were cooperating with the Smitlisonian 
Institution in the research program. 

During the time that the archeologists were not in the field they 
were engaged in the analysis of their materials and in the laboratory 
and library research. They also prepared manuscripts of teclinical 
scientific reports and wrote articles and papers of a more popular 
nature. 

The Missouri Basin Chronology Program, begun by the staff arche- 
ologists of the Missouri Basin Project in January 1958, continued to 
operate and made considerable progress throughout the year. Con- 
tinued cooperation and participation by more than 30 individuals 
representing 30 research institutions throughout the Plains area has 
been rewarding. This year major emphasis was placed upon the 
dendrochronological section of the program. Harry E. Weakly of 
the U.S. Department of Agriculture, Dr. Warren W. Caldwell of the 
Missouri Basin Project, and Ward Weakly of the University of Ne- 
braska concentrated the tree-ring studies on a limited area along the 
Missouri River between Fort Thompson and the Cheyenne River in 
South Dakota. This takes in all the Big Bend Reservoir area and the 
lower portions of the Oahe Reservoir. A master chart has been 
constructed for this area using oak, ash, and cedar, that extends from 
the present back to A.D. 1302. Archeological wood, mainly cedar 
house posts, from a number of sites has been dated by the master 
chart. The dates look good, and in general correlate well with other 
chronological data, but until further checks have been made, release 
of these dates would be premature. In addition to the master chart, 
a "floating" sequence of nearly 300 years has been constructed, based 
upon timbers from houses of the Over Focus and the Thomas Riggs 
Focus. There also appears to be a high degree of correlation between 
the South Dakota master chart and the several charts that have been 
previously developed for areas of Nebraska. 

The radioactive carbon- 14 section of the program has continued 
to develop, and in conjunction with the University of Michigan Memo- 
rial Phoenix Laboratory, under the direction of Prof. H. R, Crane, 
a series of four new dates has been released. Sam'ple M-1079a^ char- 
coal from a house post of the late component at the Crow Creek site 
(39BF11) in the Fort Randall Reservoir, S. Dak., excavated by 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 69 

Marvin F. Kivett for the Nebraska State Historical Society as a part 
of the Inter- Agency Archeological Salvage Program, gave a date of 
560±150 years ago. Sample M-lOSOa, charcoal from Feature 4 of 
the Good Soldier site (39LM238) in the Big Bend Reservoir of South 
Dakota, gave a date of 2,380rtl50 years ago. This sample was 
excavated by Robert W. Neuman of the Missouri Basin Project staff. 
Sample M-1081, charcoal from zone D of the Logan Creek site 
(25BT3) in northeastern Nebraska, excavated by Marvin F. Kivett 
for the Nebraska State Historical Society, gave a date of 7,250±300 
years ago. Sample M-10S2, wood from a house post in a small long- 
rectangular house (F. 2) of the Fay Tolton site (39ST11) in the 
Oahe Reservoir, gave a date of 860±150 years ago. This sample was 
excavated by Dr. Donald D. Hartle, then of the Missouri Basin Project 
staff. An experiment in the decontamination of charcoal treated with 
paraffin failed completely. A log, one end of which had been coated 
with paraffin and the other end not so treated, had had the treated 
end deparaffined and both sections were run for carbon-14 analysis. 
The two dates from the same piece of charred wood were several cen- 
turies apart. 

The laboratory and office staff spent its full effort during the year 
in processing specimen materials for study, photographing and il- 
lustrating specimens, preparing specimen records, and typing, filing, 
and illustrating record and manuscript materials. Accomplislimenta 
of the laboratory and office staff are listed in tables 1 and 2. 

The Missouri Basin Project staff archeologists and archeologists 
of the National Park Service and cooperating States agencies working 
in the Missouri Basin met on July 30 in a roundtable field conference 
in Pierre, S. Dak. This ITV^th Plains Conference, now a regular 
summer event, and a supplement to the annual Thanksgiving Plains 
Conference, was devoted to discussions of current fieldwork and 
technical problems of field identifications. During the Thanksgiving 
weekend, members of the staff participated in the 18th Plains Confer- 
ence for Archeology, held in Norman, Okla. On April 14, members 
of the staff participated in the seventy-first annual meeting of the 
Nebraska Academy of Sciences in Lincoln. 

Dr. Robert L. Stephenson, Chief, devoted a large part of his time 
during the year to managing the office and laboratory in Lincoln and 
preparing plans and budgets for the 1961 field season. He compiled 
a 7-volume summary of construction data and archeological work in 
all the 789 named reservoir sites in the Missouri Basin for use in fu- 
ture planning in the Lincoln office. He completed the revision of a 
large technical monograph, "The Accokeek Creek Site: A Middle 
Atlantic Seaboard Culture Sequence," previously accepted as his doc- 
toral dissertation at the University of Michigan, and continued with 
preliminary analysis of materials he recovered from the excavations 



70 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

at the Sully site (39SL4) in the Oahe Reservoir in 1956-57-58. He 
also continued work on a monograph reporting the "Archeological 
Investigations in the Whitney Reservoir, Texas," and two smaller 
manuscripts, all nearing completion at the end of the year. Through- 
out the year he served as chairman of the Missouri Basin Chronology 
Program ; as assistant editor of "Notes and News in the Plains Area," 
for American Antiquity; and as associate editor for the Plains An- 
thropologist. At the 18th Plains Conference, held in Norman, Okla., 
on Thanksgiving weekend, he served as chairman of the session on 
"Field Reports" and as a panel discussant for the session on "The 
Aksarben Aspect." 

Dr. Stephenson presented a paper, "The Plousing Problem," at the 
seventy-first annual meeting of the Nebraska Academy of Sciences 
in Lincoln on April 14. During the year he wrote a number of book 
reviews for various scientific journals. He also wrote a brief article, 
"Comments on 'Relationships between the Caddoan Area and the 
Plains' by Robert E. Bell," for publication in the Bulletin of the Texas 
Archeological Society. On May 7 he was the guest speaker at the 
annual meeting of the Iowa Archeological Society, talking on the 
subject, "Drowning Our Heritage." Throughout the year he gave 
seven other talks on various aspects of Missouri Basin Salvage 
Archeology before regular meetings of local civic organizations and 
school groups. In July he drove to Moscow, Idaho, to deliver a load 
of archeological specimens from the Missouri Basin to Dr. Alfred 
Bowers of the University of Idaho and to consult with Dr. Bowers on 
the analysis of the material. While there he met with the executive 
dean of the University of Idaho to confer on problems involved in 
anthropological programs in the University. In May he was invited 
to Accokeek, Md., as a consultant to the Accokeek Foundation on an 
archeological research program for the Accokeek area. He took 
annual leave to serve as part-time assistant professor of anthropology 
on the faculty of the University of Nebraska during both the first and 
second semesters of the academic year. At the end of the year he was 
conducting investigations in prehistoric Indian village sites in the 
Oahe Reservoir area. 

Dr. Warren W. Caldwell, archeologist, when not in charge of field 
parties, devoted most of his time to analyses of specimen materials 
he had recovered from salvage excavations in previous years. He 
completed final revisions of liis manuscript "Archeological Investi- 
gations at the Hickey Brothers Site, 39LM4, Lyman County, South 
Dakota," in collaboration with Lee G. Madison and Bernard Golden ; 
and of the manuscript "The Garrison Dam and Reservoir," in collab- 
oration with G. Hubert Smith. He continued the detailed analysis 
of materials from the Black Partizan site (39LM218) in the Big Bend 
Reservoir, S. Dak., and in collaboration with Harry E. Weakly con- 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 71 

tinued work on the dendrochronological materials from the Big Bend 
and Oahe Reservoirs of South Dakota. In May he consulted with 
Dr. Douglas Osborne of the National Park Service regarding com- 
plete revision and expansion of Ms monograph, "The Archeology of 
Wakemap; A Stratified Site near the Dalles of the Columbia," for 
publication in the National Park Service series. He also completed 
"Dendrochronology and the Missouri Basin Chronology Program," 
which was published in 2'he Tree Ring Bulletin^ vol. 23, No. 3. In 
addition, he wrote several book reviews. On July 30 he served as 
chairman of the 17V2th Plains Conference in Pierre, S. Dak., and 
over Thanksgiving weekend he gave a report on liis current fieldwork 
at the 18th Plains Conference in Norman, Okla. On April 14 he pre- 
sented a paper at the seventy-first annual meeting of the Nebraska 
Academy of Sciences held in Lincoln, entitled "Some Thoughts on 
Guns and Indians." During the year he continued to serve as chair- 
man of the dendrochronology section of the Missouri Basm Chronol- 
ogy Program; as assistant editor for reviews and literature for the 
Plains Anthropologist, and as Plains collaborator for the Society for 
American Archeology publication, Abstracts of New World Archae- 
ology. On annual leave he continued to serve as part-time assistant 
professor of anthropology on the faculty of the University of Ne- 
braska. At the end of the year he was again engaged in excavating 
archeological sites in the Big Bend Reservoir area. 

Robert W. Neuman, archeologist, when not in the field conducting 
excavations, was analyzing archeological materials he had previously 
excavated in the Big Bend Reservoir area. He completed four man- 
uscripts and had them accepted for publication : "The Olson Mound 
(39BF223) in Buffalo County, South Dakota"; "Salvage Arche- 
ology at a Site near Fort Thompson, South Dakota"; "A Bibliog- 
raphy of Archeological References Relating to the Central and North- 
ern Great Plains Prior to 1930" ; and "Domesticated Corn from a Fort 
Walton Mound in Houston County, Alabama." The first three will 
be published in the Plains Anthropologist ; the fourth in the Florida 
Anthropologist. An article, "Indian Burial Mounds in the Upper 
Missouri River Basin," was published in Progress of the Interior 
Missouri Basin Field Committee. During the year he served as chair- 
man of the carbon-14 section of the Mssouri Basin Chronology Pro- 
gram. On Thanksgiving weekend he presented two papers at the 
18th Plains Conference in Norman, Okla., entitled "Excavations at 
Four Mound Sites in the Oahe Reservoir" and "The Brother of All 
Document, 1888." During late April and early May he drove to 
Washington, D.C., and Knoxville, Tenn., to deliver a load of Missouri 
Basin archeological specimens and to confer with archeologists at 
both cities. At the end of the year he was again in the field conduct- 
ing archeological excavations. 

625325—62 6 



72 



ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 



. G. Hubert Smith, archeologist, after completing liis fieldwork in 
August, was on duty the remainder of the year in the Lincoln office 
analyzing materials and preparing reports of work previously ac- 
complished at historic sites in the Missouri Basin. His principal 
effort was directed toward preparation of a large monograph com- 
bining his own and several other investigators' work at the site of 
Fort Berthold and Like-a-Fishhook Village (32ML2) in the Garrison 
Reservoir, and by the end of the year he was well along on this manu- 
script. He also prepared an article, "Historical Archeology in the 
Missouri Basin Reservoir Areas," that was published in the Plains 
Anthropologist in November, and wrote (in collaboration with War- 
ren W. Caldwell) a manuscript, "The Garrison Dam and Reservoir," 
for publication by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers. Throughout 
the year he served as assistant editor for historic sites archeology for 
the Plains Anthropologist and as chairman of the historic documenta- 
tion section of the Missouri Basin Chronology Program. He partici- 
pated in the 18th Plains Conference, held in Norman, Okla., over 
Thanksgiving weekend with a report of his current field activities. 
On September 23-24 he participated as a discussant at the "Confer- 
ence on Historic Buildings and Sites" at Iowa State University at 
Ames. On January 26-28, at the annual meeting of the Society of 
Architectural Historians, in Minneapolis, Minn., he presented an illus- 
trated paper on "Frontier Buildings on the Upper Missouri," and on 
May 20 a similar paper, "Early Historic Buildings in the Missouri 
Basin," at the annual meeting of the Nebraska Association of Archi- 
tects, held in Lincoln. On April 14 he spoke at the seventy-first 
annual meeting of the Nebraska Academy of Sciences in Lincoln on 
"Early Historic Sites and Buildings on the Upper Missouri: Some 
Problems of Evidence." At the close of the year he was at work in 
the Lincoln office on his monograph on site 32]\Hj2. 

Table 1. — Specimens processed July 1, 1960 — June SO, 1961 



Reservoir 


Number of 
sites 


Catalog 
numbers 
assigned 


Number of 
specimens 
processed 


Big Bend 


6 

1 
57 

1 
15 

3 


496 

83 

2,341 

25 

2,417 

151 


2, 161 


Fort Randall 


1,339 


Walter F. George ._ 


24, 101 


Lewis and Clark . 


135 


Oahe -- 


8, 145 


Sites not in reservoirs 


226 






Site totals 


83 


5,513 


36, 107 






Collections not assigned site numbers 


1 


3 


46 


Combined totals 


84 


5,516 


36, 153 







SECRETARY'S REPORT 73 

As of June 30, 1961, the Missouri Basin Project had cataloged 
1,255,716 specimens from 2,141 numbered sites and 59 collections not 
assigned site numbers. 

Specimens restored: Two pottery vessels and one vessel section. 
Specimens repaired : Fourteen nonpottery artifacts. 
Specimens transferred to other agencies : 
To the United States National Museum: 
Archeological specimens from 425 sites in 10 reservoir areas. 
Unworked shell from 16 sites in three reservoir areas. 
To the University of Nebraslia State Museum : 

Identified, unworked animal bone from 120 sites in seven reservoir areas. 

Table 2. — Record material processed July 1, 1960-June SO, 1961 
MISSOURI BASIN PROJECT 

Reflex copies of records 8, 465 

Photographic negatives made 1, 507 

Photographic prints made 8, 916 

Photographic prints mounted and filed 1, 894 

Transparencies mounted in glass 498 

Kodachrome pictures taken in lab 160 

Cartographic tracings and drawings 66 

Artifacts sketched 45 

Plates lettered 40 

Profiles drawn 11 

Plate layouts made for manuscripts 12 

Cooperating institutions. — During the fiscal year a number of insti- 
tutions cooperated in the Inter- Agency Salvage Program in several 
areas. In addition to those previously mentioned in the sections per- 
taining to Alabama-Georgia and the Missouri Basin, the following 
work was carried on under agreements with the National Park 
Service : 

The University of Arkansas made studies in the Beaver Reservoir 
area on the White River and the Millwood Reservoir on Little River. 
The University of Kentucky conducted investigations in the Nolin 
Reservoir area on the Nolin River. The University of North Carolina 
worked at the Wilkesboro Reservoir on the Yadkin River. The Uni- 
versity of Tennessee carried on activities in the Milton Hill Reservoir 
on the Clinch River. The Carnegie Museum of Pittsburgh studied 
archeological manifestations in the Shenango Reservoir area on the 
Shenango River. The New Jersey State Museum conducted inves- 
tigations at Tocks Island. The University of Illinois had a project 
at the Shelbyville Reservoir on the Kaskaskia River, and Southern 
Illinois University made a series of excavations in the Carlyle Res- 
ervoir Basin on the same river. The Wisconsin State Historical 
Society conducted investigations in the Kickapoo Reservoir area on 
the Kickapoo River. The University of Texas carried on a series of 
surveys in the Texas Gulf Project. The Kansas State Historical 



74 ANTRAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

Society excavated in the Council Grove Eeservoir on the Grand 
(Neosho) Eiver. The University of Arizona continued its investiga- 
tions in the Painted Rock area on the Gila River. The Museum of 
Northern Arizona continued its studies in the Glen Canyon Reservoir 
area on the Colorado River, as did the University of Utah in the same 
area and in the Flaming Gorge and Plumfield Reservoir Basins. 
The Museum of New Mexico worked in the Navajo Reservoir area 
along the San Juan River. The College of the Sequoias conducted 
investigations in the Terminus Reservoir area on the Kaweah River 
in California. Idaho State College worked in the Bruce's Eddy area 
on the North Fork of the Clearwater River. Washington State Col- 
lege continued its excavations in the Lower Monumental and Ice 
Harbor areas along the Columbia River and the University of Wash- 
ington worked on the Priest Rapids- Wanapum Project in the Middle 
Columbia River district. The University of Oregon investigated 
sites in the John Day Reservoir Basin on the John Day River. Several 
institutions volunteered to carry on survey work without an agreement 
with the National Park Service. They include gi'oups in Pennsylvania, 
New York State, Ohio, Indiana, southern California, and West 
Virginia. In the latter State the West Virginia Geological Survey 
did reconnaissance work in the Summerville Reservoir area on the 
Gauley River. 

ARCHIVES 

The Bureau archives continued under the custody of Mrs. Margaret 
C. Blaker, archivist. In May 1961 Mrs. Blaker visited the Haverford 
College Library, Haverford, Pa., where she examined pictorial and 
manuscript material in the Quaker Collection concerning American 
Indians, and in June, visited the library of Hampton Institute, Hamp- 
ton, Va., and examined an extensive collection of field and studio 
photographs relating to Indians who were students at Hampton in 
the period 1880-1900. On July 10, 1960, Mrs. Caroline R. Cohen 
was appointed as junior anthropologist and was assigned to assist in 
the archives. 

MANUSCRIPT COLLECTIONS 

The papers of Dr. Frans M. Olbrechts, relating to his studies of the 
Cherokee Indians of North Carolina in 1926-31 when he was a col- 
laborator of the Bureau, were transmitted to the Bureau archives 
by Dr. Olbrechts' widow, Mrs. Margriet Olbrechts of Wezembeek- 
Oppem, Belgium, through Dr. A. E. Meeussen, Koninklijk Museum, 
Tervuren, Belgium. Dr. Olbrechts died at Aix-la-Chapelle, March 
24, 1958. The subject matter of the papers consists of the following 
categories : Vocabularies, grammar, texts, disease-name papers, Wilnoti 
formula papers, botany, myths, and miscellaneous ethnographic notes. 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 75 

An 18-page inventory has been prepared, and the papers, which 
occupy 28 boxes, are available for study and microfilming. 

The manuscript collection continued to be utilized by anthropolo- 
gists and other students. About 300 manuscripts were consulted by 
searchers who visited the archives in person or purchased microfilm 
and other reproductions totaling 7,146 pages. An equal number of 
manuscripts was consulted by the archivist in obtaining information 
for over 90 mail inquiries. In the course of this examination, new and 
more detailed descriptions of manuscripts were also prepared for the 
permanent catalog and for future distribution in response to specific 
inquiries. 

PHOTOGRAPHIC COLLECTIONS 

The Bureau's collection of North American Indian photographs, 
which is one of the most extensive and most active of its kind, con- 
tinued to grow through the generosity of interested individuals who 
either lent pictures for copying, or presented them as gifts. 

Sixty original photographs of Mesquakie Indians, mainly taken 
by J. L. Hudson of Tama, Iowa, and apparently dating in part from 
the 1860's, were lent for copying by Norman Feder of New York City. 
Mr. Feder also lent a series of about 40 copy prints of Prairie Pot- 
tawotomie of the latter part of the 19tli century. 

Over 150 photographic slides of American Indian subjects were 
received on loan from Mrs. Doris Collester of East Riverdale, Md. 
Of especial interest are several dozen slides of Apache, Pima, and 
Maricopa Indians dated 1871 or in years of the following decade. 
Many of the slides bear the name of Moore, Bond & Co., Chicago or 
Moore, Hubbell, & Co., Chicago, as distributor, although the original 
source of most of the photographs is still unknown. 

Forty-six photographs relating to Cree and Chipewyan Indians 
in Alberta, Saskatchewan, and Mackenzie, Canada, taken by Dr. 
Francis Harper on an expedition of the Geological Survey of Canada 
to the Great Slave Lake in 1914 were obtained from the Geological 
Survey of Canada, through the courtesy of Dr. Francis Harper and 
Dr. J. M. Harrison, Director of the Survey. 

A scrapbook of James Earl Taylor, artist-correspondent for Frank 
Leslie's Illustrated Weekly Newspaper from 1863 to 1883, was re- 
ceived as a gift from the Pennsylvania Historical and Museum Com- 
mission, through John Witthoft. The scrapbook contains several 
hundred original photographic prints of western Indians, several 
photographs of Army officers, linecuts of western military posts, and 
other material assembled for the artist's reference, as weU as reproduc- 
tions of a nmnber of Taylor's own illustrations. 

Seventeen photographs of important men of the Osage, Caddo, 
Arapaho, Cherokee, Creek, Chickasaw, and Seminole tribes were 



76 ANNTJAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

borrowed for copying from the Quaker Collection, Haverford College 
Library, Haverford, Pa., through the courtesy of Dr. Thomas E. 
Drake. The portraits are all on similar mounts of the carte de visite 
style, and most are inscribed with the subjects' names and the dateline 
September 1865, Fort Smith, Ark. Only one of the photographs has 
a photographer's imprint. It is a portrait of Left Hand and Powder 
Face, Arapahoes, with Superintendent Enoch Hoag. On the reverse 
is stamped, "W. H. Lamon, Photograph Artist, Corner Massachusetts 
& Henry Sts., Lawrence, Kansas." Four views of Kickapoo bark- and 
mat-covered lodges in Chief Wapamashawa's village, Indian Terri- 
tory, were also borrowed from the Quaker collection and copied. 

Thirteen photographs, including 10 relating to Kiowa, Wichita, 
and Apache Indians, by Irwin of Chickasha, Indian Territory, 1892- 
ca. 1894, were lent for copying by Vernon M. Riley of Chino, Calif. 

Five photographs relating to Omaha and Ponca Indians of the 
latter 19th century, and a group photograph of the officers of the 
American Association for the Advancement of Science at Ann Arbor, 
1885, including the Reverend J. Owen Dorsey and Mrs. Erminnie A. 
Smith (both formerly associated with this Bureau) were lent for 
copying by Mrs. Virginia Dorsey Lightfoot of Takoma Park, Md. 

Five photographs of Osage Indians, taken in 1871 by T. M. Con- 
cannon at the Osage Agency, Indian Territory, were received as a 
gift from Mrs, Ernest J. Martin of Drain, Oreg. 

Nine photographs relating to Indians of the Southwest who were 
connected with projects of the U.S. Bureau of Reclamation in that 
area in 1941-60 were donated by the Bureau of Reclamation. 

Ten copy photographs of Ute Indians of the 1870's and 1880's were 
received in exchange from Dr. Omer C. Stewart of Boulder, Colo. 

Six recent photographs of Quapaw Indians of Oklahoma were pre- 
sented by Mrs. Velma Nieberding of Miami, Okla. 

A collection of between 100 and 200 mounted photographs and 
glass slides was received as a transfer from the library of the United 
States Department of the Interior. At year's end these photographs 
had not yet been arranged and individually listed. They relate to a 
variety of North American Indian tribes. 

During the year prints were prepared from several hundred snap- 
shot negatives by Matilda Coxe Stevenson that had not been previously 
cataloged. Most of the photographs were made at Zuni Pueblo, ca. 
1904. They include numerous views relating to dances and cere- 
monials and a lesser number pertaining to domestic activities. In 
spite of the fact that some of the photographs are not of high quality 
photographically, many are surprisingly clear and informative, and 
the collection as a whole warrants careful study. 

In addition to the Zuiii views, in the Stevenson collections there 
are a relatively small number of photographs relating to the pueblos 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 77 

of Cochiti, ca. 1904, San Ildefonso, ca. 1908, and Santa Clara, ca. 
1911. A 16-page caption list of the entire collection has been prepared. 
The photographic files continued to be used extensively by scholars 
and the general public. The year's total of approximately GOO pur- 
chase orders and written and personal inquiries concerning photo- 
graphs is about equal to that of last year, while the total of over 
2,000 prints distributed exceeds last year's figure. 

ILLUSTRATIONS 

Work during the past fiscal year consisted of the preparation of 
numerous charts, graphs, diagrams, and maps, the restoration of 
photographs, photo retouching, and the drawing of a variety of 
Indian artifacts. Also many miscellaneous drawings, diagrams, etc., 
were prepared for other branches of the Institution. 

LIBRARY 

Detailed information about the Bureau library is contained in the 
report of the librarian on the Smithsonian Library, but it is well to 
emphasize the fact that the Bureau library is still serving a useful 
purpose in providing reference material not only for members of 
the staff but for students and professionals in the Washington area 
and visitors from other parts of the country. However, it should be 
pointed out that the library is not wholly fulfilling the function that 
it should because of the lack of a librarian. A full-time librarian 
would not only greatly expedite the use of the facility by members 
of the staff, but would also be extremely helpful to those who find it 
necessary to consult publications in the Bureau library, many of 
which are not available in many other places. Furthermore, through 
an intimate knowledge of the material now available, a librarian would 
be able to see that new publications pertaining to the Bureau's 
researches are acquired promptly when they become available. For 
many years the Bureau library was one of the outstanding places in 
North America for anthropological research, and it well merits a 
return to its former status. 

EDITORIAL WORK AND PUBLICATIONS 

The Bureau's editorial work continued during the year under the 
immediate direction of Mrs. Eloise B. Edelen. There were issued 
one Annual Report and two Bulletins, as follows: 

Seventy-seventh Annual Report of the Bureau of American Ethnology, 1959-60. 

ii-l-35 pp., 2 pis. 1961. 
Bulletin 176. River Basin Surveys Papers, Nos. 15-20, Frank H. H. Roberts, Jr., 
editor, ix-f 337 pp., 65 pis., 25 figs. 1960. 
No. 15. Historic sites archeology on the Upper Missouri, by Merrill J. 
Mattes. 



78 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

Bulletin 176 — Continued 

No, 16. Historic sites archeology in the Fort Randall Reservoir, South 

Dakota, by John E. Mills. 
No. 17. The excavation and investigation of Fort Lookout Trading Post II 

(39LM57) in the Fort Randall Reservoir, South Dakota, by Carl F. Miller. 
No. 18. Fort Pierre H (39ST217), a historic trading post in the Oahe 

Dam area. South Dakota, by G. Hubert Smith. 
No. 19. Archeological investigations at the site of Fort Stevenson (32MLI), 

Garrison Reservoir, North Dakota, by G. Hubert Smith. With an intro- 
duction by Robert L. Stephenson and an appendix by Carlyle S. Smith. 
No. 20. The archeology of a small trading post (32MN1) in the Garrison. 

Reservoir (Kipp's Post) South Dakota, by Alan R. Woolworth and W. 

Raymond Wood. 
Bulletin 180. Symposium on Cherokee and Iroquois culture, edited by William 
N. Fenton and John Gulick. VI+292 pp. 1961. 
No. 1. Foreword by the editors. 

No. 2. Iroquois-Cherokee linguistic relations, by Floyd G. Lounsbury. 
No. 3. Comment on Floyd G. Lounsbury's "Iroquois-Cherokee Linguistic 

Relations," by Mary R. Haas. 
No. 4. Iroquois archeology and settlement patterns, by William A. Ritchie. 
No. 5. First comment on Wlliam A. Ritchie's "Iroquois Archeology and 

Settlement Patterns," by William H. Sears. 
No. 6. Second comment on William A, Ritchie's "Ii-oquois Archeology and 

Settlement Patterns," By Douglas S. Byers. 
No. 7. Cherokee archeology, by Joffre L. Coe. 
No. 8. Comment on Joffre L. Coe's "Cherokee Archeology," by Charles H. 

Fairbanks. 
No. 9. Eastern Woodlands community typology and acculturation, by John 

Witthoft. 
No. 10. Comment on John Witthoft's "Eastern Woodlands Community 

Typology and Acculturation," by John M. Goggin. 
No. 11. Cherokee economic cooperatives : the Gadugi, by Raymond D. Fogel- 

son and Paul Kutsche. 
No. 12. The rise of the Cherokee state as an instance in a class: The 

"Mesopotamian" career to statehood, by Fred O. Gearing. 
No. 13. Comment on Fred O. Gearing's "The Rise of the Cherokee State as 

an Instance in a Class: The 'Mesopotamian' Career to Statehood," by 

Annemarie Shimony. 
No. 14. Cultural composition of the Handsome Lake religion, by Anthony 

F. C. Wallace. 
No. 15. Comment on Anthony F. C. Wallace's "Cultural Composition of 

the Handsome Lake Religion," by Wallace L. Chafe. 
No. 16. The Redbird Smith movement, by Robert K. Thomas. 
No. 17. Comment on Robert K. Thomas's "The Redbird Smith Movement," 

by Fred W. Voget. 
No. 18. Effects of environment on Cherokee-Iroquois ceremonialism, music, 

and dance, by Gertrude P. Kurath. 
No. 19. Comment on Gertrude P. Kurath's "Effects of Environment on 

Cherokee-Iroquois Ceremonialism, Music, and Dance," by William 0. 

Sturtevant. 
No. 20. The Iroquois fortunetellers and their conservative influence, by 

Annemarie Shimony. 
No. 21. Change, persistence, and accommodation in Cherokee medico- 
magical beliefs, by Raymond D. Fogelson. 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 79 

Bulletin 180 — Continued 

No. 22. Some observations on the persistence of aboriginal Cherokee per- 
sonality traits, by Charles H. Holzinger. 

No. 23. First comment on Charles H. Holzinger's "Some Observations on 
the Persistence of Aboriginal Cherokee Personality Traits," by David 
Landy. 

No. 24. Second comment on Charles H. Holzinger's "Some Observations on 
the Persistence of Aboriginal Cherokee Personality Traits," by John 
Gulick. 

No. 25. Iroquoian culture history: A general evaluation, by William N. 
Fenton. 

Publications distributed totaled 29,845, as compared with 31,547 for 
the fiscal year 1960. 

COLLECTIONS 

Tlie following collections were made by staff members of the Bureau 
of American Ethnology or of the River Basin Surveys and transferred 
to the permanent collections of the department of science and tech- 
nology, the department of civil history, and the department of an- 
thropology, U.S. National Museum : 

FROM BUREAU OF AMERICAN ETHNOLOGY 

Acc. No. 

236067. Dictaphone. Through Dr. Frank H. H. Roberts, Jr. 

234469. 31 Belgian postage stamps. Through Mrs. Margaret C. Blaker. 

FROM RIVER BASIN SURVEYS 

225806. 160 land and fresh-water mollusks from Arkansas and South Dakota. 

Through Dr. Robert L. Stephenson. 
232081. Indian skeletal remains from Big Bend Reservoir, Buffalo County, 

S. Dak. 
232741. 5,153 archeological items and skeletal material from Fall River County, 

S. Dak., and Crook and Fremont Counties, Wyo., 1957. 
233812. Indian skeletal materials from the McNary Reservoir region. 

MISCELLANEOUS 

Dr. M. W. Stirling, Dr. John P. Harrington, Dr. A. J. Waring, and 
Sister Inez Hilger continued as research associates. Dr. Stirling, as- 
sisted by Mrs. Marion Stirling, using the Bureau's laboratory facili- 
ties, completed work on the materials from the Ecuadorian field trip 
undertaken while he was Director of the Bureau, and turned in a 
manuscript which will be published in the Bureau's series of anthro- 
pological papers. 

The following bibliographies and leaflets were issued during the 
fiscal year : 

SILr-50, 3d rev., 2/61: Selected list of portraits of prominent Indians In the 

collections of the Bureau of American Ethnology. 
SIL-53, rev., 2/61: Photographic collections of the Bureau of American 

Ethnology. 
SIIy-76, rev., 7/60 : Statement regarding the Book of Mormon. 
SILf-92, rev., 1/61 : Origin of the American Indian. 



80 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

SIL-134, rev., 10/60 : American Indian languages. 

SILr-175, rev., 3/61: Selected references on present-day conditions among U.S. 

Indians. 
SIL-264, 11/60 : Selected references on the Indian and the Frontier. 
SlIi-276, 1/61: Linguistic considerations in the interpretation of place names. 

Other bibliographies were revised during the year. They are : the 
"Battle of the Little Bighorn" (should be available for distribution 
by September 19C1), and the popular "Bibliography of American In- 
dian Medicine" (available before December 1961.) 

The nearly 3,900 letters received in the Director's office plus a few 
hundred received by staff members are a good indication of the con- 
tinued interest in the American Indian. In addition, several thou- 
sand letters requesting Bureau publications are received yearly in the 
Editorial and Publications Division. Many complete sets of the Bu- 
reau's bibliographies were sent out upon requests from college and 
university professors and libraries, and to other educational organiza- 
tions. Approximately 10,200 informational items, including type- 
script and printed articles, bibliographies, and other leaflets, plus more 
than 300 photographic lists were mailed from the main Bureau office 
in response to requests for such materials. Many specimens were 
mailed in or brought to the office for identification and data on them 
were supplied. 

Kespectfully submitted. 

Frank H. H. Egberts, Jr., Director. 

Dr. Leonard Carmichael, 
Secretary^ Smithsonian Institution. 



Report on the Astrophysical Observatory 

Sm: I have the honor to submit the following report on the 
operations of the Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory for the fis- 
cal year ended Jmie 30, 1961 : 

The Astrophysical Observatory includes two divisions: the Divi- 
sion of Astrophysical Research in Cambridge, for the study of solar 
and other types of energy impinging on the earth; and the Division 
of Radiation and Organisms in Washington, for the investigation of 
radiation as it relates directly or indirectly to biological problems. 
Shops are maintained in Washington for work in metals, woods, and 
optical electronics, and to prepare special equipment for both divi- 
sions; and a shop conducted in cooperation with the Harvard Col- 
lege Observatory in Cambridge provides high-precision mechanical 
work. The field station at Table Mountain, Calif., carries out solar 
observations. Twelve satellite-tracking stations are in operation, 
in Florida, Hawaii, and New Mexico in the United States and abroad 
in Argentina, Australia, Curagao, India, Iran, Japan, Peru, South 
Africa, and Spain. 

DIVISION OF ASTROPHYSICAL RESEARCH 

The Observatory research staff made significant contributions to 
knowledge of solar astrophysics, meteors, meteorites, artificial satel- 
lites, geophysics, and space science. The continuing refinement of 
observational tecliniques and the development of new analytical 
methods provided valuable data and opened up new areas of astro- 
physical investigation. 

The Observatory continued, with mutual benefit, its close liaison 
with Harvard College Observatory, the Massachusetts Institute of 
Technology, Boston University, and other research centers. 

Solar astrophysics. — Dr. Paul W. Hodge studied the properties of 
the field stars and globular clusters in the Large Magellanic Cloud 
and found that they apparently differ from our galaxy in color, mag- 
nitudes, luminosity, and evolutionary pattern. These findings are 
important in establishing the true extragalactic distance scale. 

Stephen E. Strom completed his study of absorption below 100 A. 
to determine the optical depth of the interstellar medium as a func- 
tion of wavelength in the X-ray region. He found that the region 
above 40 A. is essentially "black" (in terms of presently conceived 
fluxes) and that, owing to the K-absorption limit of oxygen, there is 

81 



82 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

an interesting "jump" at 23.3 A. in the curve of optical depth versus 
wavelength. 

Dr. Charles A. Whitney continued his research in stellar atmos- 
pheres. From computations , based on novel analytical methods, 
carried out by Angelo J. Skalafuris, he has formulated a simplified 
analytical description of the cooling rate behind shock waves. This 
work corrects the erroneous results of an earlier investigator, and 
also serves to check the range of validity of assumptions of "optically 
thin" perturbations (i.e., neglect of reabsorption of shock radiation). 
In his investigation of the gas dynamics of stellar atmospheres, also 
assisted by Mr. Skalafuris, he is concentrating initially on the struc- 
ture of shock fronts in pure hydrogen, and in successive stages will 
work toward a unified theory incorporating the effects of radiation 
and the wide departures from thermodynamic equilibrium. Dr. 
Wliitney's continuing project on the cause and nature of stellar pul- 
sation has closely approached a definitive statement of the cause of 
pulsation aided by the success of Dr. John P. Cox, who served as 
consultant, in obtaining exact solutions for the nonadiabatic linear- 
ized wave equation. Miss Sylvia Boyd began compilation of spec- 
trographic and photometric data on pulsating stars, which will un- 
dergo analysis in the light of the Cox-Wliitney theory; Dr. K. G. 
Teske's investigation, under Dr. Wliitney's supervision, of spectrum- 
line formation in pulsating stellar atmospheres indicates the need 
for revision of earlier interpretations. 

To provide a foundation for the analysis of astrophysical data ex- 
pected from future orbiting observatories, Dr. Whitney began pre- 
liminary work on methods of constructing accurate model stellar at- 
mospheres. Using electronic computations provided by SAO, 
he is extending and modifying recent theoretical developments, in- 
cluding the work of Dr. Max Krook and his students. Owen Gin- 
gerich's completed computer program for the construction of accu- 
rate model atmospheres in radiative equilibrium has demonstrated the 
inadequacy of nmch earlier work in solar radiation and its implica- 
tions for the model of the sun's atmosphere. Shiv Kumar has vir- 
tually completed the construction of several models for the atmos- 
phere of very hot stars. 

Dr. Kichard IMcCrosky, with the use of infrared-sensitive detectors 
on the 61-inch telescope of the Harvard College Observatory, con- 
tinues his observations of Raman-scattered Lyman a to determine the 
presence of hydrogen molecules in interstellar space. 

Dr. Max Krook is proceeding with his theoretical research into the 
further development and application of methods for determining the 
structure of nongray atmospheres. In collaboration with Dr. Whit- 
ney, he is now calculating a number of model atmospheres. He is 
also applying the methods developed in continuum theories in gas 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 83 

dynamics to problems of the flow of rarefied gases, various problems 
in the dynamics of ionized gases, and the exact solution of one-di- 
mensional problems in the kinetic theory of gases. 

Fred A. Franklin made progress in his dynamical and photomet- 
ric studies of the rings of Saturn and of the interaction between the 
rings and particles of the solar corpuscular stream. The results 
should apply to other astronomical problems and should yield pre- 
cise values of the solar corpuscular flux. 

At the Table Momitain station, Dr. Alfred G. Froiland, employ- 
ing the atmospheric coefficients obtained by Smithsonian work, de- 
vised a method for determining the ozone in the vertical path. 

Meteoritical studies. — The Director and Dr. Luigi G. Jacchia com- 
pleted their analysis and discusssion of the orbits of 413 accurately 
reduced meteors. Dr. Jacchia will continue Ms study of the reduced 
material. 

The Director has been investigating the distribution of semimajor 
axes among comet orbits and has derived the following law for the 
frequency distribution of lifetimes of long-period comets: Potential 
lifetimes of new comets are distributed according to the negative 
three-halves power of the lifetime in number of revolutions. His theo- 
ries on the structure of the cometary nucleus will form a chapter in a 
forthcoming book on the solar system. From rocket, satellite, and 
space-probe data the Director completed a study of the influx of mi- 
crometeoritic dust on earth. The work adds significantly to knowl- 
edge of the structure and evolution of the solar system and has prac- 
tical importance for the engineering and operation of space vehicles. 

Kobert E. Briggs is continuing his study of the distribution of in- 
terplanetary dust particles in space. This work should provide 
valuable data for current and future research on the nature of inter- 
planetary space and the origin and properties of the dust particles. 

Dr. Jolin A. Wood has been conducting a study of variations in 
chemical composition between individual chondrules extracted from 
a chondrite (Bjurbole). He is analyzing these small chondrules 
with a direct- current arc emission spectrograph. He has also been 
making a theoretical analysis of the diffusion of nickel in the nickel- 
iron phases of iron meteorites, to determine cooling rates and ther- 
mal histories which could account for the curious nonequilibrium 
nickel concentration profiles noted by Ulilig and others in irons. 
His brief analysis and description of the new meteorite Ras Tanura 
(Saudi Arabia) is being prepared for publication. 

Dr. E. L. Fireman, Dr. David Tilles, and James DeFelice meas- 
ured the radioactive isotopes tritium and argon-37 in recovered 
satellite material. The tritium content of some material from the 
Discoverer XVII satellite was unusually high but decreased rapidly 
with increasing depth. Discoverer XVII was exposed to an intense 



84 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

solar flare (3+ magnitude). The high tritium content and its 
depth dependence in the satellite material lead to the conclusion that 
the solar flare contains 0.4 percent tritium. This is the first meas- 
urement of a radioactive isotope from the sun. 

Dr. Fireman completed measurements of argon-37, argon-39, and 
tritium in several freshly fallen meteorites, and showed that the 
cosmic-ray flux is higher at a distance of one astronomical unit from 
the earth than at three. He has also obtained preliminary measure- 
ments on radioactive isotopes in the Bruderheim meteorite. His 
analysis of uranium, potassium, argon- 140, and krypton-xenon in 
iron meteorites will help determine the age and early history of the 
meteorites. 

Dr. Paul W. Hodge continues his study of the rate of accretion by 
the earth of meteoritic matter and will determine especially the 
physical and chemical properties of fine dust particles collected by 
jet aircraft at altitudes varying from 30,000 to 90,000 feet. Collec- 
tions at even greater heights, up to 250,000 feet, will be attempted. 

Dr. Richard E. McCrosky, with the collaboration of the Harvard 
College Observatory, U.S. Air Force, Lincoln Laboratories, and Na- 
tional Aeronautics and Space Administration, continues his attempt 
to reproduce the meteor phenomena by a study of artificial meteors. 
The results should help calibrate the mass-luminosity scale of natural 
meteors. From a project designed to recover a larger number of 
meteorites as soon as possible after their fall, Dr. McCrosky will seek 
data on the cosmic-ray intensity in the vicinity of the earth and 
throughout the orbit of the meteorite. His findings will add to our 
present inadequate knowledge of the numbers, masses, and orbits 
of meteorites. 

Dr. McCrosky continued his planning of a program to locate and 
recover meteorites as soon as possible after their fall, by photograph- 
ing meteors in flight and analyzing the photographic records to find 
the place of fall. The program will also augment our knowledge 
of the number, masses, and orbits of large meteors. Preliminary de- 
sign of the stations is complete ; the general location of the stations 
in the network in the Midwest has been determined; and a machine 
program for computation of impact points has been completed. The 
program has not yet received financial support. In view of the 
scientific results that can be expected from this project, it should be 
funded as soon as possible. 

Dr. F. Behn Riggs, Jr., designed and developed an electron probe 
microanalyzer to make possible a point-by-point chemical analysis 
of polished surfaces of sectioned meteorites without destruction of 
samples. Analyses of micrometeorites, along with other experiments 
in bringing the electron beam into the air, have resulted in a useful 
evaluation of unsolved technical problems. 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 85 

Pedro E. Zadunaisky has begun an analysis of the motion of 
Halley's Comet in order to check current theories about the forces 
perturbing the elliptic motion of a comet. 

Opening a new field for study, Dr. Tilles will construct a high- 
sensitivity mass spectrometer and from recovered satellite samples 
will measure the isotopic composition of the gases in solar winds and 
flares. He will also study the stable isotopes of noble gases in 
meteorites and terrestrial rocks. 

Satellite-tracking program. — The optical tracking of artificial satel- 
lites with NASA support continues to provide data for the prediction 
of orbits and for basic research in the space sciences. The program 
comprises a worldwide organization of Moon watch teams, the oper- 
ation of 12 precision photographic stations in various parts of the 
world, the calculation of satellite ephemerides, photographic image 
reduction, detailed analysis by electronic computers, and precise 
reduction of satellite positions. 

From May 1, 1960, to May 1, 1961, Moonwatch observations of 57 
satellites and their orbiting components provided data for correcting 
ephemerides and for acquiring and reacquiring satellites. The sta- 
tions also conducted a number of searches for orbiting objects. 

Dr. Gustav A. Bakos's analysis of Moonwatch observations indicates 
that they compare favorably with those made by radar and with field 
reduced observations by SPOT. 

Major developments in operational techniques of the Baker- Nunn 
camera stations were accomplished in two fields — the automation of 
matched-track and off-culmination observing methods, and the design 
and development of auxiliary equipment that enables the entire 
network to be synchronized to within a few milliseconds of time. 
These developments will prove extremely valuable in the forthcoming 
research in geodesy using direct triangulation methods. 

Specifications were drawn for a new electronic time standard for 
the stations that would be capable of maintaining uniform and precise 
time to an accuracy of one-half millisecond. This clock, which will 
greatly improve observational accuracy, is unique in its field. 

Five stations in the Baker-Nunn network worked in conjunction 
with the Jodrell Bank Kadio Telescope in making optical observations 
of flare stars. 

Of 13,556 films received from the Baker-Nunn camera stations, the 
photoreduction center completed reductions of 8,961. From July 
1960 through April 1961 the computations center sent 32,592 pre- 
dictions to the 12 Baker-Nunn camera stations, 11,160 transits of 
satellites were observed, and 14,361 reduced positions were reported. 

The communications center cleared more than a million words per 
month, 95 percent of which represent satellite data received or sent 
throughout the world. 



86 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

The research and analysis division has made valuable contributions 
to our basic knowledge of the earth and the upper atmosphere, 
described in detail under Space Science. In summary, the division has 
achieved greater accuracy in the analysis of the earth's gravitational 
potential field, established the gravitational ellipticity around the 
earth's equator, and determined the geodetic positions of the observing 
stations with greater exactness. The division has measured variations 
of atmospheric density in relation to solar activity and interplanetary 
storms, and studied the effect of solar light pressure on satellites. 

Dr. Karoly Lassovszky is continuing his astrometric study of satel- 
lite positions determined from Baker-Nmm films. From approxi- 
mately 800 measurements on 34 images of different length he 
analyzed the frequency distribution of settings, the relationship 
between this distribution and the length of the image, and the rela- 
tionship between the "magnitude error" and the length of image. 
Position determinations have been made using reference stars at dif- 
ferent distances. On the basis of these results, we can conclude that 
the accuracy is influenced neither by the distortion of the emulsion 
nor by the optical distortion within an area of a diameter of 5 cm. 
(5?8). The standard error of a position determined from numerous 
measurements made with Mann comparators on Baker-Nunn films 
is ±1?1, both in right ascension and in declination. The project 
should help evaluate the techniques of analysis and measurement 
now used for the precise reduction of satellite data. Dr. Lassovszky 
will also investigate the rapid and secular variations in brightness 
of satellites. 

At the Florence meeting of COSPAK, April 10-14, 1961, the Di- 
rector and Dr. George Veis presented a paper on the Observatory's 
"Experience in Precision Optical Tracking of Satellites for Geodesy." 
The Baker-Nunn cameras can photograph satellites to an accuracy of 
about d=2" (seconds of arc) in topocentric position and ±1 milli- 
second in time. The locations of the cameras have been connected, 
with standard geodetic techniques, to the major geodetic systems and 
to a tentative uniform one. From an analysis of the observations, 
geodetic information of dynamic character has been obtained; i.e., 
the coefficients of the second, third, fourth, and fifth order zonal 
harmonics of the earth's gravity field as well as the coefficients of the 
second order sectorial harmonic. The launching of a well-planned and 
controlled flashing-light geodetic satellite for international use would 
reduce markedly the complexity and expense of observing stations 
and promote international geodesy in a remarkable fashion. 

Space science. — Imre G. Izsak, in the first attempt to derive two 
important geophysical constants from the motion of satellites, has 
made a good estimate of the ellipticity of the earth's equator. He has 
also obtained a second-order solution of Vinti's dynamical problem. 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 87 

In his study of satellite orbits with very small eccentricities he has 
found that the orbit has two perigees and two apogees during each 
revolution. He is continuing his investigation of the harmonics of 
the earth's gravitational potential. 

Dr. Don A. Lautman has undertaken a numerical integration pro- 
gram to provide precise ephemerides of artificial satellites. He will 
check general perturbation theories and attempt to obtain orbits of 
satellites not at present subject to general theory, as well as of those 
whose perturbations are too large or too complicated to be handled 
conveniently by general perturbation theories. 

Dr. Yoshihide Kozai has shown that the effects of solar-radiation 
pressure must be considered in the derivation of geodetic constants 
from satellite data. He is continuing his studies of astronomical con- 
stants and of the geodetic uses of artifical satellites. By analysis of 
deviations of computed orbits from those observed by Baker-Nunn 
cameras, he is attempting to determine the tesseral harmonics of the 
earth's gravitational potential and to obtain accurate coordinates of 
the camera stations. He will employ recently determined values from 
the motion of satellites to examine the relations between astronomical 
constants and to eliminate inconsistencies. Dr. Kozai's determina- 
tions from satellites of the spherical harmonics to the fifth order of the 
earth's gravitational field are generally accepted as the most precise 
available. 

Pedro E. Zadunaisky, from a preliminary study of atmospheric 
drag on nonspherical satellites, has attempted to find a "mean" attitude 
of satellites in relation to their velocity vectors. He will continue with 
more refined techniques and a different group of satellites at higher 
altitudes. His analysis will contribute to our knowledge of 
atmospheric densities and of the motion of satellites around their 
center of gravity. His special study of the perturbations on the orbit 
of Echo I caused by atmospheric drag and solar-radiation pressure 
gave good agreement between theory and observation. 

Dr. Gustav A. Bakos is progressing with his analysis of the seasonal 
changes of the earth's albedo. The project has significance for our 
understanding of the relationship which he has demonstrated between 
large-scale meteorological phenomena and the observed reflectivity of 
the earth. 

Stephen E. Strom has developed the computer program and 
preliminary ray-tracing method for the study of the effect of the 
ionosphere on radio-astronomical observations. 

Dr. Mario D. Grossi, with these computations and tracings as tools, 
will investigate the effect of the ionosphere, the Van Allen belts, and 
the earth's magnetic field on radio-astronomical observations in the 
MF and HF bands. 

625325—62 7 



88 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

Dr. Luigi G. Jaccliia's studies of atmospheric drag on artificial 
satellites have already contributed profoundly to our knowledge of 
atmospheric densities above the height of 200 km. His conclusions as 
to variations of the atmosphere with time, solar activity, and geo- 
graphic position, as well as his determinations of the atmospheric 
density profile, have received general international acceptance. He 
will continue to explore the problems of solar-terrestrial effects. 

Dr. G. Colombo has made a study of the motion of Explorer IV 
(Satellite 1958 Epsilon) around its center of mass, as inferred from 
observations of several kinds, and the possible causes of the strong 
variations of the elements of the tangential precessional motion. Al- 
though a precise knowledge of the residual magnetization of the body 
of the satellite and the ferromagnetic components of the payload is 
needed for an exact computation, he draws attention to the unexpected 
pronounced effect of the interaction between the earth's magnetic field 
and the shell (of stainless steel) of the satellite. 

Dr. Leo Goldberg, with Dr. William Liller, is directing the design 
and construction of two ultraviolet scanning spectrometers for flight 
in the S-17 Satellite within the framework of the program of Orbit- 
ing Solar Observatories of the National Aeronautics and Space 
Administration. The combined spectral range of the spectrometers 
will be 75 A. to 1500 A. and the resolving power will vary between 0.3 
A. at the longer wavelengths and 1.0 A. at the shortest wavelengths. 
Design of the spectrometers is now in the final stages. Calibration 
and testing of the instrument packages will be carried out in a new 
laboratory recently installed in the Space Science Building. 

The work of the laboratory will also be expanded in the fall to 
include a broad program of basic research on the vacuum ultraviolet 
radiation of atoms and molecules of astrophysical importance with 
one- and two-meter vacuum spectrographs and a shock tube and flash 
tube as sources. The scanning spectrometers are scheduled for rocket 
flights at the end of 1961 and for flight aboard the S-17 Satellite dur- 
ing the last quarter of 1962. 

Dr. Goldberg has been engaged in a study and survey of astro- 
nomical experiments that may be performed with satellite vehicles. 
The conclusions of the survey have been published in two chapters 
of "Science in Space" in collaboration with Dr. E. E. Dyer, Jr. 

The Director and Dr. Robert J. Davis, astrophysicist in charge, 
together with other Observatory scientists, have progressed with the 
planning and development of the "Celescope" project, a group of 
astronomical telescopes to be carried in sounding rockets and later or- 
bited in artificial earth satellites. Specifications for the satellite 
payload (telescope system) have been prepared, and final negotiation 
for the manufacture of the instruments is being awaited. With the 
aid of television images in three colors and slitless spectrograms of the 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 89 

entire celestial sphere, these instruments will provide a means of ex- 
tending astronomical observations to the far ultraviolet and X-ray re- 
gions of the spectrum. 

The immediate objective of the project is to map about 100,000 
stars and record their brightnesses. Further analysis in special de- 
tail of objects discovered by this survey is planned. 

The first rocket flight carrying a prototype Celescope of simplified 
design should confirm our theoretical analyses and test some of the 
more critical elements of the Celescope's electronic system. Experi- 
ments have been delayed by rocket failure but should resume in 
February 1962. 

The payload for the satellite will consist of imaging television-type 
detectors sensitive to certain ultraviolet spectra. These video images 
will be scanned and converted from analog to digital form prior to 
signal transmission to ground stations to preserve all the important 
stellar information. Models of this digital equipment have been de- 
signed and built in Celescope laboratories and will serve as guides for 
manufacturers building the satellite payload. The first telescope 
should go into orbit in 1963-64. The Celescope program is supported 
by NASA. 

PUBLICATIONS 

Publications of the Smithsonian Contributions to Astrophysics in- 
cluded numbers 2 through 4 of volume 4 and nmnbers 4 through 8 
of volume 5. 

The following papers by staff members of the Astrophysical Ob- 
servatory appeared in various journals : 

Aller, L. H. See Goldberg, MuUer, and Aller. 

Baez, A. v. A proposed X-ray telescope for the 1 to 100-A region. Journ. 
Geophys. Res. vol. 65, pp. 3019-3020, 1960. 

Brown, J. See Goldberg, Mohler, and Brown. 

Davis, R, J. U.S. plans for space telescopes for planets, stars, and nebulae. 
Mem. Soc. Roy. Sci. Liege, ser. 5, vol. 4, p. 25, 1961. 

. See also Strom, Strom, and Davis. 

DeFelice, J. See Fireman and DeFelice; Fireman, DeFelice, and Tilles; 
Tilles, DeFelice, and Fireman. 

Dyer, B. R., Jr. See Goldberg and Dyer. 

Fireman, E. L. See Tilles, DeFelice, and Fireman. 

Fireman, E. L., and DeFelice, J. Argon-37, argon-39, and tritium in meteor- 
ites and the spatial constancy of cosmic rays. Journ. Geophys. Res., vol. 65, 
pp. 3035-^041, 1960. 

Fireman, E. L. ; DeFelice, J. ; and Tilles, D. Tritium in recovered satellite 
material (abstract). Bull. Amer. Phys. Soc, vol. 6, No. 3, p. 276, 1961. 

Fireman, E. L., and Kistner, G. A. The nature of dust collected at high alti- 
tudes. Geochim. et Cosmochim. Acta, vol. 23, No. 5, 1961. 

Ginqerich, O. a computer program for non-grey stellar atmospheres. Mem. 
Soc. Roy. Ligge, ser. 5, vol. 4, 1960. 

Goldberg, L. Project West Ford — properties and analyses; Introduction. 
Astron. Journ., vol. 66, pp. 105-106, 1961. 



90 ANlSrUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

GoLDBEKG, L. Solar experiments. Astron. Journ., vol. 65, pp. 274-277, 1960. 

. Solar experiments — US. plans. Mem. See. Roy. Li6ge, ser. 5, vol. 4, 

pp. 30-38, 1961. 

. The sun. Science in Space (Space Science Board Rep.), 1960. 

. The sun. Bull. Atomic Scientists, vol. 17, pp. 210-213, 1961. 



GoLDBEEO, L., and Dteb, E. R., Jb. Galactic and extragalactic astronomy. Sci- 
ence in Space (Space Science Board Rep.), 1900. 
. The sun. Galactic and extragalactic astronomy. In Science in Space, 

edited by L. V, Berkner and H. Odishaw, chaps. 17, 18, 1961. 
Goldberg, L. ; Mohleb, W, U. ; and Brown, J. The measurement of the local 

doppler shift of the Fraunhofer lines. Astrophys. Journ., vol. 132, pp. 184-194, 

1960. 
Goldberg, L. ; Mullee, E. A. ; and Aller, L. H. The abundance of the elements 

in the solar atmosphere. Astrophys. Journ., suppl. 5, No. 45, pp. 1-138, 1960. 
Hagihaba, Y. Gaps in the distribution of asteroids. Smithsonian Contr. 

Astrophys., vol. 5, No. 6, 1961. 
. On the motion of satellites with critical inclination. Smithsonian 

Contr. Astrophys., vol. 5, No. 5, 1961. 
Hodge, P. W. NGO 2209: An unusual cluster of the large Magellanic cloud. 

Publ. Astron. Soc. Pacific, vol. 72, pp. 308-311, 1961. 
. Studies of the large Magellanic cloud : V. The young populous clusters. 

Astrophys. Journ., vol. 133, pp. 413-419, 1961. 
Hodge, P. W., and Wright, F. W. The space density of atmospheric dust in 

the altitude range 50,000 to 90,000 feet. Tech. Rep., Air Force Cambridge 

Research Center (AFCRL 451), 1961. 
Hodge, P. W. ; Wright, F. W. ; and Hoffleit, D. An annotated bibliography on 

interplanetary dust. Smithsonian Contr. Astrophys., vol. 5, No. 8, 1961. 
Hoffleit, D. See Hodge, Wright, and Hoffleit. 
IzsAK, I. G. On satellite orbits with very small eccentricities. Astron. Joum., 

vol. 66, pp. 12£^131, 1961. 
, Periodic drag perturbations of artificial satellites. Astron. Journ., vol. 

65, pp. 35^357, 1960. 
Jacohia, L. G. Artificial earth satellites. Scientia, ser. 6, vol. 54, 1960. 
. A variable atmospheric-density model from satellite accelerations. 

Journ. Geophys. Res., vol. 65, pp. 2275-2782, 1960. 
Jacchia, L. G., and Whipple, F. L. Precision orbits of 413 photographic meteors. 

Smithsonian Contr. Astrophys., vol. 4, No. 4, 1961. 
KisTNEB, G. A. See Fireman and Kistner. 
KozAi, Y. Effect of precession and nutation on the orbital elements of a close 

earth satelUte. Astron. Journ., vol. 65, pp. 621-623, 1960. 
. Note on the motion of a close earth satellite with a small eccentricity. 

Astron. Journ., vol. 66, pp. 132-134, 1961. 
. The gravitational field of the earth derived from motions of three 



satellites. Astron. Journ., vol. 66, pp. 8-10, 1961. 

Kumar, S. S. On gravitational instability II. Publ. Astron. Soc, Japan, vol. 12, 
p. 290, 1960. 

. On gravitational instability III. Publ. Astron. Soc, Japan, vol. 13, p. 

121, 1961. 

McCrosky, R. E. Observations of simulated meteors. Smithsonian Contr. 
Astrophys., vol. 5, No. 4, 1961. 

McCrosky, R. E., and Posen, A. Elements of photographic meteors. Smith- 
sonian Contr. Astrophys., vol. 4, No. 2, 1961. 

Mohler, W. U. See Goldberg, Mohler, and Brown. 

Mxtller, E. a. See Goldberg, MuUer, and Aller. 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 91 

NoDviK, J. S. See Rustgi, Nodvik, and Weissler. 

PosEN, A. See McCrosky and Posen. 

RiGGS, F. B., Jb. Vacuum sealing of gold wire leads to a differential thermopile. 

Rev. Sci. Instr., vol. 32, No. 3, p. 366, March 1961. 
Rustgi, O. P. ; Nodvik, J. S.- ; and Weissler, G. L. Optical constants of germa- 
nium in the region 0-27 EV. Phys. Rev., vol. 122, p. 1131, 1961. 
Strom, K. M. See Strom, S. E., and Strom, K. M. ; Strom, Strom, and Davis. 
Stbom, S. E., and Strom, K. M. Interstellar absorption below 100 A. Publ. 

Astron. Soc. Pacific, vol. 73, pp. 43-45, 1961. 
Stbom, S. E. ; Strom, K. M. ; and Davis, R. J. A general method of analysis for 

n-lens, m-mirror systems (abstract). Journ. Opt. Soc. Amer., vol. 72, p. 43, 

1961. 
TiLLES, D. See Fireman, DeFelice, and Tilles. 
TiLLES, D. ; DeFeuce, J. ; and Fireman, E. L. Argon-37 in recovered satellite 

material (abstract). Bull. Amer. Phys. Soc, ser. 2, vol. 2, No. 3, p. 277, 1961. 
Weissler, G. L. See Rustgi, Nodvik, and Weissler. 
Whipple, F. L. The dust cloud about the earth. Nature, vol. 189, No. 4789, 

pp. 127-128, Jan. 14, 1961. 
. The earth's dust belt. Astronaut. Sci. Rev., vol. 3, No. 2, pp. 17-19, 

April-June 1961. 

. General conclusions. Mem. Soc. Roy. Sci. Li^ge, ser. 5, vol. 4, 1961. 

. Particulate contents of space. In Medical and Biological Aspects of 

the Energies of Space, P. Campbell, editor, 1961. 
See also Jacchia and Whipple. 



Wright, F. W. See Hodge and Wright ; Hodge, Wright, and Hoffleit. 

The Special Reports of the Astrophysical Observatory distribute 
catalogues of satellite observations, orbital data, and preliminary re- 
sults of data analysis prior to journal publication. Numbers 45 
through 63, issued during the year, contain the following material : 

Special Report No. 45, July 11, 1960. 
List of coordinates of stations engaged in the observation of artificial earth- 
satellites, by D. V. Mechau. 
Special Report No. 46, July 11, 1960. 
The effect of a variable scale height on determinations of atmospheric density 
from satellite accelerations, by L. G. Jacchia. 
Special Report No. 47 (C-15), Sept. 9, 1960. 
Catalogue of satellite observations: Satellites 1958 Alpha, 1958 /31, 1958 y32, 
1958 52, for Jan. 1-May 31, 1960, by D. V. Mechau. 
Special Report No. 48 (C-16) , Sept. 9, 1960. 
Catalogue of satellite observations : Satellites 1959 al and 1959 a2 for Jan. 1- 
May 31, 1960, by D. V. Mechau. 
Special Report No. 49 (C-17), Sept. 9, 1960. 
Catalogue of satellite observations: Satellites 1959 Eta and i2 for Jan. 1- 
May 31, 1960, by D. V. Mechau. 
Special Report No. 50, Oct. 3, 1960. 
The orbit of Satellite 1958 Alpha (Explorer I) during the first 10,500 revolu- 
tions, by P. E. Zadunaisky. 
Special Report (unnumbered), Dec. 20, 1960, 

Index to SAO Special Reports Nos. 1-50. 
Special Report No. 51, Oct. 17, 1960. 
Satellite orbital data : Satellites 1958 /91 and 1958 /32 by B. Miller ; Satellites 
1958 62 and 1959 vl, by Y. Kozal, for Sept. 1959-April 1960, compiled by 
D. V. Mechau. 



92 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

Special Report No. 52, Nov. 21, 1960. 
A theory of satellite motion about an oblate planet: A second-order solution 
of Vinti's dynamical problem, by I. G. Izsak. 
Special Report No. 53, Dec. 5, 1960. 
The orbits and the accelerations of Satellites 1959 al and 1959 a2, by R. C. 
Nigam. 
Special Report No. 54 (C-18), Dec. 19, 1960. 
Catalogue of satellite observations : Satellites 1958 Alpha, 1958 /Si, 1959 p2, 

1958 52, 1958 Epsilon, for June 1-Aug. 31, 1960, by D. V. Mechau. 
Special Report No. 55 ( C-19 ) , Dec. 19, 1960. 

Catalogue of satellite observations: Satellites 1959 al, 1959 a2, 1959 Eta, 

1959 tl, for June 1-Aug. 31, 1960, by D. V. Mechau. 
Special Report No. 56, Jan. 30, 1961. 

A method of analysis for lens and mirror systems, by R. J. Davis, S. E. Strom, 

and K. M. Strom. 
A determination of the ellipticity of the earth's equator from the motion of 

two satellites, by I. G. Izsak. 
Effects of solar radiation pressure on the motion of an artificial satellite, 
by Y. Kozai. 
Special Report No. 57 (C-20), Mar. 3, 1961. 

Catalogue of satellite observations : Satellites 1960 /3l (carrier rocket Tiros I), 
for Apr. 1-June 1, 1960; 1960 /32 (Tiros I), for Apr. 2-Aug. 31, 1960; 1960 
7I (carrier rocket. Transit I B), for Apr. 13- June 3, 1960; 1960 72 (Transit 
IB) for Apr. 14- July 25, 1960, by D. V. Mechau, 
Special Report No. 58 (C-21) , Mar. 3, 1961. 
Catalogue of satellite observations: Satellites 1960 tl (Echo I), and 1960 i2 
(carrier rocket, Echo I), for Aug. 12-Aug. 31, 1960, by D. V. Mechau. 
Special Report No. 59, Mar. 3, 1961. 

The positions of the Baker-Nunn camera stations, by G. Veis. 
Special Report No. 60, Mar. 10, 1961. 
The effect of radiation pressure on the secular acceleration of satellites, by 
S. P. Wyatt. 
Special Report No. 61, Mar. 20, 1961. 
Experimental and theoretical results on the orbit of Echo I, by P. B. 
Zadunaisky, I. J. Shapiro, and H. M. Jones. 
Special Report No. 62, May 26, 1961. 
The atmospheric drag of artificial satellites during the October 1960 and 
November 1960 events, by L. G. Jacchia. 
Special Report No. 63, May 29, 1961, 
Effect of the diurnal atmospheric bulge on satellite accelerations, by S. P. 
Wyatt. 

OTHER ACTIVITIES 

Members of the staff presented papers at meetings of the American 
Astronomical Society, the American Physical Society, the American 
Geophysical Union, the National Telemetering Conference, the Amer- 
ican Meteorological Society, the American Astronautical Society, 
the American Philosophical Society, the Optical Society of America, 
the International Association of Geodesy, the Institute of Aero- 
nautical Sciences, the National Aeronautics and Space Administration. 

Dr. Fireman presented a paper at the International Atomic Energy 
Commission in Vienna and at a meeting of the Meteoritical Society 
in Los Angeles. The Director, Dr. Veis, Mr. Izsak, and Dr. Jacchia 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 93 

attended a COSPAR meeting in Florence, Italy. Drs. Fireman, 
McCrosky, and Kiggs held a meeting with the director of the Amer- 
ican Meteorite Musemn in New York. The Director and Mr. Izsak 
met with the Space Science Board in New York City. Mr. Izsak, 
with Dr. Kozai and Mr. Rolff, participated in the Space Age Geodesy 
Symposium at Columbus, Ohio. 

Dr. Davis held consultations with scientists at the University of 
Wisconsin on the Orbiting Astronomical Observatory. Dr. Riggs 
attended the Pittsburgh Diffraction Conference and participated in 
an A.S.T.M. panel meeting on electron probe microanalysis. The 
Director, Dr. Veis, and Mr. Izsak attended the 12th assembly of 
the International Union of Geodesy and Geophysics in Helsinki in 
July. Dr. Hynek visited South Dakota in connection with unmanned 
balloon flights. Dr. Lautman, Dr. Kozai, and Mr. Nigman attended 
the Yale Summer Institute in New Haven. Drs. Whipple, Davis, 
Jacchia, and Wliitney participated in the symposium on Aeronomy 
sponsored by the International Association of Geomagnetism and 
Aeronomy at Copenhagen in July. 

Dr. Whitney attended the I.A.U. symposium in Varenna, Italy, 
August 1960, where he presented a paper prepared jointly with Dr. 
P. Ledoux on present-day knowledge of the gas dynamics of variable 
stars. Dr. Whitney also presented, at the International Meetings of 
Aeronomers in Copenhagen, July 1960, a survey of methods of deriv- 
ing atmospheric densities from satellite accelerations. 

The Director served as president of the Tenth Astrophysical Sym- 
posium on Far Ultraviolet Spectra of Astronomical Bodies at the 
University of Liege, Belgium. As president of the Subcommission 
22a, the Director prepared and submitted a world-wide meteoritical 
report to Commission 22 of the International Astronomical Union. 
The objective, to further international research in the field of meteor- 
ites, was forwarded by literature in the area and contributions from 
other members of the Committee. The Director also acted as con- 
sultant to the Scientific Advisory Board of the U.S. Air Force during 
the year as well as to the Committee on Science and Astronautics of 
the House of Representatives. 

STAFF CHANCES 

The following scientists joined the staff: Dr. Leo Goldberg, 
solar astrophysics; Drs. Giuseppe Colombo, Yusuke Hagihara, and 
George Veis, research and analysis, satellite-tracking program; Drs. 
Richard B. South worth, David Tilles, and John A. Wood, meteoritical 
studies; Dr. Om P. Rustgi, Celescope. 

Dr. J. Allen Hynek resigned as associate director to become director 
of the Dearborn Observatory, Northwestern University. 

Kenneth H. Drummond resigned as assistant director (manage- 
ment), to accept a similar position at the University of California, 



94 AJsnsruAL report Smithsonian institution, 1961 

La Jolla. Carlton W. Tillinghast, Jr., became the new assistant 
director. 
As of June 30, 1961, 309 persons were employed at the Observatory. 

BUILDINGS AND EQUIPMENT 

In addition to two other leased buildings, the Astrophysical Obser- 
vatory occupies the recently completed Harvard University Space 
Science Building on the grounds of the Harvard College Observatory. 
Dedication took place in December 1960. 

FUNDS AVAILABLE, FISCAL YEAR 1961 

Satellite-tracking Program (NASA) $3,900,000 

Celescope (NASA 51-60) 695,543 

Army Ballistics Missile Agency (ABMA) 19,964 

Air Force Contract 1596 22, 547 

Air Force Contract 6627 4, 998 

Air Force Contract 7414 67, 786 

National Aeronautics and Space Administration Grant H-3647 50, 000 

National Science Foundation Grant 16337 20, 000 

National Science Foundation Grant 16067 25, 000 

Total 4, 805, 838 

DIVISION OF RADIATION AND ORGANISMS 
Prepared by W. H. Klein, Chief of the Division 

The research activities of the Division were continued in the general 
field of photobiology, and the principal efforts were directed toward 
a more complete description of the regulatory responses of plants 
that are mediated by radiant energy. The technics of biochemistry, 
biophysics, cytology, and plant physiology were used in evaluating 
both qualitatively and quantitatively the metabolic and morphological 
changes occurring at the cellular and subcellular level in such photo- 
regulatory processes. 

The time course of chlorophyll synthesis at various stages of de- 
velopment for dark-grown Black Valentine bean plants was deter- 
mined. A lag phase in the rate of chlorophyll synthesis occurs when 
seedlings are 6 or more days old. The rate of chlorophyll synthesis 
can be increased by a low-level pretreatment of red radiant energy, 
and this red effect can be completely eliminated by following it with 
far-red radiant energy. Since it appeared to be a possibility that 
the rate-limiting factor might be a substance which was depleted 
from the leaves or cotyledons at about 6 days or synthesized as a 
result of the red pretreatment, a number of compounds were tested 
by infiltrating leaves to determine their effect on the lag phase. In 
leaves infiltrated with delta amino levulinic acid, chlorophyll syn- 
thesis was found to occur without a lag phase diu'ing the first hour of 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 95 

subsequent irradiation. However, a pretreatment with red energy of 
delta amino levulinic acid infiltrated leaves did not increase chloro- 
phyll synthesis, and beyond an hour of irradiation at low intensities, 
the rate of chlorophyll synthesis declined. At high intensities, the 
newly synthesized chlorophyll is destroyed. 

The regulation of chlorophyll formation and the development of 
the photosynthetic apparatus as affected by inliibitors of protein syn- 
thesis were studied. Chlorophyll formation was inliibited at a con- 
centration of 10 /xgm./ml., and 60-80 percent inhibition occurred at 
4,000 /Agm./ml. Green pigments accumulating in the presence of anti- 
biotic were chlorophylls a and 6, and they were found to be present in 
the same ratio as in leaves treated with water instead of chlorampheni- 
col. However, the effectiveness of chlorophyll in catalyzing photo- 
synthesis decreased with increased concentration of chloramphenicol. 
Chloramphenicol does not affect the photosynthetic ability of leaves 
greened in its absence. 

Leaves greened in the presence of chloramphenicol did not differ 
in their content of TPN-dependent glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate de- 
hydrogenase from water-treated controls. Levels of carboxydismu- 
tase were somewhat lower in treated leaves. However, Hill reaction 
activity of a green particle fraction from leaves greened in cliloram- 
phenicol solution was only a tenth of that of the same fraction from 
control leaves. 

The rate of chlorophyll synthesis in Black Valentine bean leaves 
was demonstrated to be another physiological response wliich is sub- 
ject to the mediation of the red, far-red photomorphogenic receptor. 
The rate of pigment production by the chlorophyll-synthesizing 
mechanism in etiolated leaves can be influenced by a short preirradia- 
tion with red and far-red radiant energy. A treatment consisting of 
several minutes of red light, followed by an overnight period in dark- 
ness, results in appreciable stimulation in the subsequent rate of 
chlorophyll synthesis in continuous wliite light. The stimulation in- 
duced by a red pretreatment can be nullified by subsequent exposure 
to far-red, either immediately after the red induction or even after 
interposing as much as 9 hours of darkness. TNHien red and far-red 
are administered alternately for several cycles, the quality of the ter- 
minal treatment controls the rate of chlorophyll synthesis. The effect 
of the red, far-red system on the chlorophyll-synthesizing mechanism 
may be due to the synthesis of pigment precursors or to changes in 
plastid size and/or number. 

The expansion of dark-grown leaves is promoted markedly by ex- 
posure to red radiant energy. For leaf disks, the induction by red 
is a logaritlimic function of dose over the range of 0.1 to 100 mj./cm.^ 
when given in 100 seconds. For reversal, the dose response curve is 
a linear function of dose, and the maximum effectiveness of the far- 



96 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

red occurs about 30 minutes after induction. Preliminary measure- 
ments of the spectral sensitivity of leaf disk expansion indicate that 
at 546 and 677 uifi, the promotive effect is as great for equal quantum 
flux as at 660 mfi. 

For leaves stimulated by red energy, an additional growth stimu- 
lation of expansion is exerted by cobalt ions, which also promote 
expansion in the dark. The maximum growth promotion due to co- 
balt was found to be 3 X 10-*M. and was not found to be affected by 
2,4-dinitrophenol (DNP) which uncouples oxidative phosphorylation. 
Adenosine triphosphate (ATP) levels in the leaf tissue were not af- 
fected by cobalt alone. However, complete deletion of ATP by 
DNP did not occur if cobalt ion was added simultaneously. It ap- 
pears that this effect is not due to the formation of a complex between 
DNP and cobalt ion which is inactive in the oxidative phosphoryla- 
tion process. Experiments with isolated mitochondria indicate that 
the cobalt ion inhibits the activity of adenosine triphosphatase, 
thereby increasing the net gain of ATP from oxidative phosphoryla- 
tion. 

The yield of chromosome aberrations induced by a given dose of 
X-rays is increased by supplemental far-red radiation. Sinc« far-red 
energy is effective as either a pretreatment or posttreatment, it is 
apparently the rejoining mechanism rather than breakage per se 
that is affected. Alternatively, the increase of X-ray-induced aber- 
rations may result from mitotic delay induced by far-red. These 
possibilities are not necessarily mutually exclusive since some particu- 
lar phase of the mitotic cycle, e.g., that portion of mitotic interphase 
during which DNA synthesis takes place, may be preferentially 
affected. 

Studies were conducted of cell population kinetics of root systems 
of broad bean, Vicia faha, using flash labeling with tritiated thymi- 
dine assayed by autoradiographs of squashed preparations. The rel- 
ative frequency of labeled nuclei in each of the various stages of 
mitosis was determined for dark-grown and far-red treated material. 
The average duration of the mitotic cycle in Vicia faha was found to 
be 19.1 hours. Cell division required 1.8 hours, and 17.3 hours were 
spent in mitotic interphase. During this latter portion of the cycle, 
DNA synthesis occupied 9.0 hours, while presynthetic and postsyn- 
thetic interphase averaged 5.1 and 3.2 hours, respectively. There was 
no evidence of mitotic delay in far-red treated material. Mitotic 
indices, which averaged 9.2 for the far-red and 8.8 for the control 
series, were comparable throughout. 

The responses of sporangiophores of Phycomyces hiakesleeanus to 
diverging unilateral blue-light stimuli given in air were determined. 
It was found that 3-minute stimuli given through a thin cylindrical 
lens (approximately the same diameter as the sporangiophore) placed 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 97 

0.15 mm. away from the sporangiophore, and with its long axis paral- 
lel to the axis of the sporangiophore, produced negative curvatures. 
All experiments were performed in a water-saturated atmosphere in 
order to prevent negative avoidance responses due to the proximity of 
the lens. The data support Buder's conclusion that the focusing ad- 
vantage is the principal effect which produces the light gradient nec- 
essary for phototropism. Wlien compared to data obtained from 
sporangiophores immersed in inert liquid fluorocliemicals, the attenu- 
ation across the growing zone appears to be of the order of 10 percent. 
Therefore, for blue stimuli, under any irradiation conditions in which 
the focusing advantage is less than 10 percent, negative curvatures are 
produced by unilateral stimuli. 

Preliminary observations were made of the growth rates of sporan- 
giophores at intensities greater than 1,5 milliwatt/cm.^, for which 
phototropic indifference occurs with unilateral stimuli. It was found 
that the growth rate increased markedly for these high intensities 
from the normal adapted level of 3-4 mm./hr. to 5-6 mm./lir. and was 
maintained at this high level for several hours. 

Instnnnents for measuring the spectral distribution of sunlight in 
six wavebands from 250 m/x to 5,000 m/x were completed and mounted 
on the roof of the North Tower of the Smithsonian Building. Auto- 
matic recorders have been installed on the tenth floor of the Tower 
and measurements are being made continuously from an hour before 
sunrise to an hour after sunset. 

PUBUCATIONS 

SisLEB, Edwabd C, and Klein, Whxiam H. Effect of red and far-red irradia- 
tion on nucleotide phospliate and adenosine triphosphate levels in dark-grown 
bean and Avena seedlings. Physiologia Plantarum, vol. 14, pp. 115-123, 1961. 

Shbopshibe, W., Jr. ; Klein, "W. H. ; and Elstad, V. B. Action spectra of 
photomorphogenic induction and photoinactivation of germination in Arabi- 
dopsis thaliana. Plant and Cell Physiol., vol. 2, pp. 63-69, 1961. 

OTHER ACTIVITIES 

During the course of the year, members of the staff attended a num- 
ber of national and international scientific meetings. Dr. W. H. Klein 
traveled to the International Photobiology Congress in Copenhagen, 
Denmark, and was one of the United States representatives at the 
Seed Irradiation Conference in Karlsruhe, Germany. He also visited 
a number of laboratories in Denmark, Germany, and the Netherlands. 
Members of the staff who were present at the annual meeting of the 
American Institutes of Biological Sciences in Stillwater, Okla., were 
Dr. L. Loercher, L. Price, and Dr. E. C. Sisler. Papers from the 
Division included in the program of this meeting were : "Chlorophyll 
Synthesis in X-irradiated Etiolated Bean Leaf Tissue," by L. Price 
and W. H. Klein, and "Effect of Red and Far-red Irradiation on 



98 ANlSrUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

Nucleotide Phosphate and Adenosine Triphosphate in Seedlings," by 
E. C. Sisler and W. H. Klein. 

Dr. W. Shropshire participated in a Departmental Colloquium on 
Photobiology at Purdue University and visited laboratories at several 
universities in the eastern United States to confer with other investi- 
gators working in the field of phototropism. 

At the 1961 meetings of the Southern Section of the American 
Society of Plant Physiologists at Jackson, Miss., L. Price and V. B. 
Elstad presented papers. 

Dr. Klein opened a lecture series at Duke University, Durham, 
N.C., by presenting two lectures on the subject "Photoinduced Reac- 
tions in Plants and Their Action Spectra." Dr. M. Margulies attended 
the annual meeting of the Federation of American Societies for Ex- 
perimental Biology in Atlantic City, N.J. Dr. R. L. Latterell 
presented a paper at the Radiation Research Society meetings held 
in Washington, D.C. 

Dr. Shropshire and Dr. Klein visited marine biology and photo- 
biology laboratories in Wasliington and California. 

Respectfully submitted. 

Fred L. Whipple, Director. 

Dr. Leonard Carmichael, 
Secretary^ Smithsonian Institution. 



Report on the National Collection 
of Fine Arts 

Sir : I have the honor to submit the following report on the activi- 
ties of the National Collection of Fine Arts for the fiscal year ended 
June 30, 1961 : 

SMITHSONIAN ART COMMISSION 

The 38th annual meeting of the Smithsonian Art Commission was 
held in Washington on Tuesday, December 6, 1960. Members present 
were Paul Manship, chairman; Leonard Carmichael, secretary; Gil- 
more D. Clarke, David E. Finley, Walker Hancock, Bartlett H. 
Hayes, Ogden M. Pleissner, Charles H. Sawyer, and Archibald G. 
Wenley. James C. Bradley, Assistant Secretary of the Smithsonian 
Institution, Theodore W. Taylor, Assistant to the Secretary, and 
Thomas M. Beggs, Director, National Collection of Fine Arts, were 
also present. 

The Commission recommended reappointment of David E. Finley, 
Charles H. Sawyer, Paul Mansliip, and Arcliibald G. Wenley for the 
usual 4-year term. 

The following officers were reelected for the ensuing year: Paul 
Manship, chairman; Robert Woods Bliss, vice chairman; and Leon- 
ard Carmichael, secretary. 

The following were reelected members of the executive committee 
for the ensuing year: David E. Finley, chairman; Robert Woods 
Bliss, Gilmore D. Clarke, Archibald G. Wenley, with Paul Manship 
and Leonard Carmichael, ex officio. 

Mr. Beggs reported on the functions of the National Collection of 
Fine Arts and its relation to the other Government galleries in Wash- 
ington. Mr. Beggs quoted from the publication, "Art and Govern- 
ment, Report to the President by the Commission of Fine Arts on 
Activities of the Federal Government in the Field of Art, Washing- 
ton, D.C., 1953," citing especially a summary of testimony it con- 
tained, which distinguished briefly between the main purposes of the 
three Smithsonian bureaus of fine art. He called attention to the 
Act of Congress of May 17, 1938, Section 4, which defines the respon- 
sibilities of the National Collection of Fine Arts. Among these are 
stressed authority to accept gifts of art works of both past and pres- 
ent and to accept funds from private sources for their purchase and 

99 



100 ANlSrUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

especially to encourage the development of American contemporary 
art. A list of references on the subject was provided. 

Mr. Clarke reported that the subcommittee appointed to advise in 
the development of plans for housing the National Collection of Fine 
Arts in the Old Patent Office Building had met on December 5 and 
had discussed the progress made on plans for renovation of the Patent 
Office Building. He reviewed the architect's plans and specifications. 
The adaptability of the building to gallery purposes was pointed out, 
and the major structural change, the construction of a loading ramp 
and platform, was outlined. Special features discussed were off-street 
parking and car storage, a dining area, and the practicability of an 
auditorium. 

Mr. Bradley stated that an appropriation had been made to the 
General Services Administration for the construction of a new Civil 
Service Building and that consequently the original Patent Office 
Building probably would be turned over to the Smithsonian at an 
earlier date than previously expected, possibly by the spring of 1963. 

Dr. Carmichael requested the Commission's advice on a new opera- 
tion proposed for the Smithsonian Institution. He briefly outlined 
the program to obtain a collection of industry-sponsored art to be used 
as a nucleus for traveling exhibitions, decoration of Federal offices, and 
possibly the decoration of Embassies and American libraries overseas, 
which would be supported by private funds. 

The Commission recommended acceptance of the following objects 
for the National Collection of Fine Arts: 

Marble, Napoleon Bonaparte (180S-73) by Pierre Jean David d'Angers 
(1788-1856). Offered by Mr. and Mrs. Fortunato Porotto, Washington, D.C. 

Bronze, Abraham Lincoln (1809-65) by Augustus St. Gaudens (1847-1907). 
Offered by Cornelia Kremer, Washington, D.C. 

Four heroic-size marble busts by William Couper (1853-1942) : Jean Louis 
Rudolph Agassiz (1807-73), Spencer FuUerton Baird (1823-88), Benjamin 
Franklin (1706-90) and Joseph Henry (1797-1878). Offered by the American 
Museum of Natural History, New York City, 

Black Belgian marble, Falcon, by Bessie Stough Callender (1889-1951). 
Bequest of Harold Callender, Paris, France. 

Decorative wall hanging by Mary Ellen Crisp. Offered by the artist, 
Biddeford, Maine. 

The Commission recommended the following be held for submission 
to the National Portrait Gallery Commission : 

Oil, Judge Isaac Samuels Pennylacker (1807-47) by undetermined artist. 
Bequest of Dr. Bernard Samuels, Front Royal, Va. 

ART WORKS LENT AND RETURNED 
Inatituttona Loans Returned 

American Federation of Art 1 

Army Signal Corps . 2 

Atomic Energy Commission 4 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 101 

Bureau of the Budget 20 2 

Chrysler Art Museum 1 

Civil Service Commission 4 

Corcoran Galley of Art 1 1 

El Paso Museum 3 3 

George Washington University 1 1 

Justice, Department of 4 

Lincoln Museum 1 

Lyman Allyn Museum 8 8 

Military Appeals, Court of 1 

Municipal Court 4 

National Gallery of Art 1 

North Carolina Museum of Art 1 1 

Richard Reasoner 12 

State, Department of 8 4 

Toronto, Art Gallery of 5 5 

Truxton-Decatur Naval Museum 1 

United States District Court 3 1 

United States National Museum, Division of Military History 8 

Vancouver Art Gallery 4 4 

Virginia Museum of Fine Arts 1 

The White House 9 26 

Whitney, Gertrude Vanderbilt, Museum of Western Art 1 1 

Whitney Museum of American Art 5 5 

Wichita, University of 1 

Winnipeg Art Museum 5 5 

89 98 

SMITHSONIAN LENDING COLLECTION 

The following four oils, transferred from the White House, were 
added December 6, 1960 : 

Undetermined title, by Gattl Annibale (1827-1909). Presented to the Presi- 
dent by H. E. Giovanni Gronchi, President of the Republic of Italy. 

Canada Ojeda, by Ameliano del Castillo. Presented to the President by the 
Director of Radio Station "La Voz de Guadix," Enrique Caroles Tarrago, Guadix, 
Granada, Spain. 

Prado do Les Aninas, by Benjamin Palencia. Presented to the President by 
the Mayor of Madrid, Jose De Roman!, Finat y Escrina, Count of Mayalde. 

Francisco De Vitoria, by Varquer. Presented to the President by H. E. General 
Francisco Franco. 

ART WORKS LENT AND RETITRNED 

Institutions Loans Returned 

Federal Communications Commission 3 

Florida Artists Group 35 35 

Florida Gulf Coast Art Center 35 35 

Labor, Department of 3 

Lebigh University 1 

Meltzer Gallery 24 

Naples, Florida Artists Group 35 35 



102 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

Institutions Loans Returned 

Post Office Department 4 

U.S. District Court 4 

The White House 6 



113 



142 



THE HENRY WARD RANGER FUND 



The following paintings purchased previously but not assigned have 
been allocated to the institutions indicated: 



Assignment 
The Canton Art Institute, Canton, 

Ohio. 
Yankton College, Yankton, S. Dak. 



Title and artist 
214. Yesterday and Before and Before, 

by Loring W. Coleman (1918- ). 
228. Sag Harbor, by Nicolai Cikovsky 

(1894- ). 

According to a provision of the Henry Ward Ranger bequest, that 
paintings purchased by the Council of the National Academy of 
Design from the fmid provided by the bequest and assigned to 
American art institutions may be claimed during the 5-year period 
beginning 10 years after the death of the artist represented, the 
following paintings were recalled for action of the Smithsonian Art 
Commission at its meeting December 6, 1960. 

No. 105. The Pale Light of Dawn, by Spencer Nichols, N. A. (1875-1950), was 
returned to the Society of Liberal Arts, Joslyn Memorial, Omaha, Nebr., where 
it was originally assigned in 1932. 

No. 37. The Bathers, by Spencer Nichols, N. A. (1875-1950), was returned to 
the Art Hall, Beloit College, Beloit, Wis., where it was originally assigned in 
1924. 

The following paintings, purchased by the Council of the National 
Academy of Design since the last report, have been assigned as 
follows : 



Title and artist 

234. Wreck of the Sea Prince (water- 

color), by John C. Pellew 
(1903- ). 

235. Espresso Magnifico, by Franklin 

Robbins (1917- ). 

236. Equestrian Acrobats, by Jon 

Corbino (190&- ). 

237. Bass Rocks (watercolor), by 

Morton Roberts (1927- ). 

238. White Mountain (watercolor), 

by Adolf Dehn (1895- ). 

239. Venezia (watercolor), by Robert 

T. Handville (1924- ). 

240. Nut Street Station (watercolor), 

by Dong Kingman (1911- ). 

241. My Neighbor's Place (water- 

color), by Harry Anderson 
(190&- ). 



Assignment 
College of Fine and Applied Arts, 
University of Illinois, Urbana, 111. 

City College, New York, N.Y. 

Howard University, Washington, 

D.C. 
Iowa State University, Ames, Iowa. 

Assignment pending. 

University of Denver, Denver, Colo. 

Assignment pending. 

West Point Museum, West Point, 
N.Y. 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 103 

Title and artist Aaaignment 

242. Posted (watercolor), by John De Maiden Public Library, Maiden, 

Tore (1902- ). Mass. 

243. Barn in Friendship (watercolor), The Leland Stanford Junior Univer- 

by Frederick P. Krause sity, Stanford University, Calif. 
(1918- ). 

244. Morning in the Cove (water- Rock Springs High School Art Proj- 

color), by Milford Zornes ect. Rock Springs, Wyo. 
(1908- ). 

245. Reclining Woman (watercolor), Rensselaer County Historical So- 

by John Russell (1928- ). ciety, Troy, N.Y. 



SMITHSONIAN TRAVELING EXHIBITION SERVICE 

In addition to the 65 exhibits held over from previous years as indi- 
cated, 56 new shows were introduced. The total of 121 of these were 
circulated to 314 museums in the United States. 

EXHIBITS CONTINUED FROM PRIOR YEARS 

1955-1956: Chinese Ivories from the Collection of Sir Victor Sassoon. 

1956-1957: Contemporary German Prints; Architectural Photography II; 
Japan II by Werner Bischof ; and The World of Edward Weston. 

1957-1958: The American City in the 19th Century; Recent American Prints; 
Japanese Woodblock Prints ; Theatrical Posters of the Gay Nineties ; Birds 
by Emerson Tuttle ; Contemporary Portuguese Architecture ; Nylon Rug 
Designs ; Burmese Embroideries ; Japanese Dolls ; Thai Painting ; The 
Anatomy of Nature ; Photographs of Sarawak ; Glimpses of Switzerland ; 
Art in Opera II — Carmen ; The Four Seasons ; Children's Paintings from 
Morocco ; Drawings by European Children ; Photographs of Angkor Wat ; 
and Pup, Cub and Kitten. 

1958-1959: German Artists of Today; Advertising in 19th Century America; 
The Engravings of Pieter Brueghel the Elder ; Three Danish Printmakers ; 
Charles Fenderich — Lithographer of American Statesmen ; Drawings from 
Latin America ; Contemporary Religious Prints from the Sloniker Collection ; 
Religious Subjects in Modern Graphic Arts; Contemporary French Tapes- 
tries I ; Our Town ; Stone Rubbings from Angkor Wat ; Shaker Craftsman- 
ship; The Unguarded Moment, Photographs by Erich Salomon; Children's 
Paintings from India ; A Child Looks at the Museum ; and Swiss Children's 
Paintings. 

1059-1960: The Art of Seth Eastman; Contemporary Greek Painting; Early 
Drawings by Toulouse-Lautrec; Watercolors and Drawings by Thomas 
Rowlandson ; Prints and Drawings by Jacques Villon ; American Prints 
Today; Brazilian Printmakers; Lithographs of Fantin-Latour ; Arts and 
Cultural Centers; Bernard Ralph Maybeck ; Enamels; Eskimo Art; Con- 
temporary French Tapestries II ; Contemporary American Glass ; Story of 
American Glass ; Bazaar Paintings from Calcutta ; Gandhara Sculpture ; 
Sardinian Crafts ; Arctic Riviera ; Photographs by Robert Capa II ; Outer 
Mongolia; Pagan; Portraits of Greatness; Contrasts; and Paintings by 
Young Africans. 



625325—62- 



104 ANlSrUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

EXHIBITIONS INITIATED IN 1961 

Paintings and Sculptures 

Title Source 

Work by Torres Garcia Rose Fried Gallery ; private collectors. 

Three Swiss Painters The Akron Art Institute; Basel Kun- 

thalle and Winterthur Museum. 

The Technique of Fresco Painting Michelangelo Muraro, Deputy Superin- 
tendent of Monuments in Venice; 
Italian Embassy. 

Folk Painters of the Canadian West National Gallery of Canada, Ottawa ; 

Canadian Embassy. 

Paintings by Ch'i Pai-Shih Yakichiro Suma, Director of the Chuo 

University in Tokyo. 

Birds of Greenland Gitz-Johnsen ; Embassy of Denmark, 

The Carlsberg Foundation, Copen- 
hagen. 

A Tribute to Grandma Moses Galerie St. Etienne, New York ; Dr. Otto 

Kalir. 

Drawings and Prints 

The America of Currier and Ives Prints and Photographs Division, Li- 
brary of Congress. 

View 1960 Thomas M. Messer, Director of the In- 
stitute of Contemporary Art, Boston. 

Drawings by Sculptors Museums; private collectors; artists; 

Miss Jane Wade, Otto Gerson Gallery, 
New York City. 

The Graphic Art of Edvard Munch Leasing J. Rosenwald ; National Gallery 

of Art. 

German Color Prints Selection from the 1959 exhibition, "Far- 

bige Graphik" ; German Embassy. 

Eskimo Graphic Art Eskimo Art, Inc., Ann Arbor, Mich. 

Civil War Drawings I American libraries ; Library of Con- 
gress. 

Civil War Drawings II American libraries ; Library of Con- 
gress. 

American Art Nouveau Posters Prints and Photographs Division, Li- 
brary of Congress. 

American Industry in the 19th Century. Prints and Photogi-aphs Division, Li- 
brary of Congress. 

America on Stone Harry T. Peters Collection, Smithsonian 

Institution. 

Printing in the Netherlands Graphic Export Centre, Amsterdam ; 

The Royal Netherlands Embassy. 

Italian Drawings Gabinetto Disegni Galleria degli Uffizi, 

Florence, Italy: Dr. Giulia Sinibaldi 
and Dr. Maria Fossi Todorow ; Italian 
Embassy. 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 105 

Oriental 

Designed in Okinawa Ryukyuan Islands museums ; Honorable 

Jugo Thoma, Chief Executive of the 
Islands; Lt. Gen. Donald P. Booth, 
U.S. High Commissioner. 

Okinawa — Continuing Traditions Ryukyuan Islands museums ; Honorable 

Jugo Thoma, Chief Executive of the 
Islands; Lt. Gen. Donald P. Booth, 
U.S. High Commissioner. 

Prints by Munakata Chisaburoh Yamada, Tokyo; Print Club 

of Cleveland Museum of Art. 

Contemporary Japanese Drawings Atsuo Imaizumi, Deputy Director, Na- 
tional Museum of Modern Art, Tokyo ; 
Japanese Embassy. 

Japan : Design Today Japan Society, Inc., New York. 

The Spirit of the Japanese Print James A. Michener, Author; Charles B. 

Tuttle Company. 

Americans — A View from the East Collection of Carl Boehringer. 

The "Way of Chinese Landscape Dr. Fritz van Briessen, German Foreign 
Painting. Service Officer, Tokyo ; Museum of 

Modem Art, Tokyo. 

Architecture 

Swiss Industrial Architecture Federation of Swiss Architects; Pro 

Helvetia Foundation ; Swiss Embassy. 

Contemporary Swedish Architecture National Association of Swedish Archi- 
tects and Swedish Institute. 

Mies van der Robe American Institute of Architects, Wash- 
ington, D.C. 

Irish Architecture of the Georgian Pe- Royal Institute of Architects of Ireland ; 
riod. Bord Failte Eireann ; Irish Embassy. 

One Hundred Years of Colorado Archi- Colorado Chapter of American Institute 
tecture. of Architects; F. Lamar Kelsey, 

Chairman, Exhibits Committee. 

Brasilia — A New Capital Brazilian Embassy. 

Design and Crafts 

Scenic Designers Offstage Coming Museum of Glass; United 

Scenic Artists. 

Design in Germany Today West German Government; Dr. Hans 

Eckstein, Director, Museum of Ap- 
plied Arts, Munich ; German Embassy. 

Fibers, Tools and Weaves Paul John Smith of the American 

Craftsmen's Council. 

Designed for Silver Museum of Contemporary Crafts; Yale 

University Art Gallery, 

Batiks by Maud Rydin Museum of Contemporary Crafts, New 

York ; Swedish Embassy ; artist. 

American Textiles Index of American Design, National 

Gallery of Art 



106 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

Photography 

The Seasons, color photographs by The Artist 

Eliot Porter. 
The World of Werner Bischof Magnum Photos, Inc. ; Embassy of Swit- 
zerland ; Pro Helvetia. 

Science 

The Image of Physics Miss Berenice Abbott ; Physical Science 

Study Committee of Educational 
Services, Inc., Watertown, Mass. 

Charles Darwin : The Evolution of an American Museum of Natural History. 
Evolutionist. 

The Beginnings of Flight The William J. Hammer Collection of 

Aeronautical Photographs ; Paul Gar- 
ber, National Air Museum, Smithson- 
ian Institution. 

Two Centuries of Danish Deep Sea Hans Madsen, Zoological Museum, Co- 
Research, penhagen; scientific committee, Dr. 

Erik Bertelsen, Director, Danish Fish- 
ery Research ; Dr. Anton Bruun, Dr. 
Ragnar Sparck and Dr. Helge Volsoe, 
University of Copenhagen ; Danish 
Embassy, King Frederik and Queen 
Ingrid. 

History 

The Magnificent Enterprise. Campo Photocolor Exhibits ; Vassar 

Education Opens the Door. College Centennial Celebration. 

The New Theatre in Germany Pepsi-Cola Company ; German Embassy. 

Tropical Africa I Twentieth Century Fund ; George H. T. 

Kimble, Chairman, Department of 
Geography, University of Indiana. 

Tropical Africa II Twentieth Century Fund; George H. T. 

Kimble, Chairman, Department of 
Geography, University of Indiana. 

Children's Exhibitions 

Symphony in Color John Herron Art Institute; Junior 

Group of the Indianapolis Symphony 

Orchestra. 
Paintings and Pastels by Children of New York-Tokyo Sister City Affiliation ; 

Tokyo. Tokyo Society for Art Education. 

Children's Art from Italy Junior Museum of the Metropolitan 

Museum of Art, New York ; Professor 

Sergio Pagiaro. 

Hawaiian Children's Art Honolulu Academy of Arts. 

Designs by Children of Ceylon Junior Museum of the Metropolitan 

Museum of Art; Art Inspector of 

Ceylon. 
Children's Paintings from Chile Mrs. Walter Howe, wife of Ambassador 

of Chile; Museum of Fine Arts, 

Santiago. 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 107 

INFORMATION SERVICE AND STAFF ACTIVITIES 

In addition to the approximately 16,000 requests for information 
received by mail and telephone, inquiries made in person at the office 
numbered 1,500. In all, 167 works of art were examined by the Di- 
rector. 

Special catalogs were published for the following traveling exhibi- 
tions : Italian Drawings, Sardinian Crafts, Irish Architecture of the 
Georgian Period, and The World of Werner Bischof . A special cata- 
log of Traveling Exhibitions for 1961-62 was also published. A 64- 
page illustrated brochure containing a cover design and introduction 
by Thomas M. Beggs was published for the Arts and Archeology of 
Viet-Nam exhibition. 

The director visited several European countries to study art gal- 
leries, their establisliment, and their relationships with government 
and other organizations, to confer with museum officials, collectors, 
and donors to the collections, and also to inspect historic buildings in 
process of restoration. 

Six paintings in oil on canvas from the permanent collections were 
cleaned and revarnished, and 28 picture frames were repaired and 
refinished with the assistance of Buildings Management Service, which 
constructed and finished frames for four etchings. 

Albert C. Wagner restored the French Ship model (No. 442) in 
the Gellatly Collection and Joseph Tembach restored the following 
items from that collection: two Oriental pins, gold and glass (No. 
187) ; Saint, alabaster (No. 377) ; Spanish King, wood (No. 569) ; St. 
George, wood (No. 381) ; St. Peter, alabaster (No. 378). 

Contracts were let for the relining and restoring by Harold F. Cross 
of the following: Ariadne, by Wyatt Eaton; Charles G. Abbot, by 
Nicholas Brewer; Pegasus, by Albert P. Ryder; Robert Hare, by Al- 
van Clark ; Richard Delafield, by Charles C. Curran ; Cup of Death, 
by Elihu Vedder; Laura Alice, by Alice Pike Barney; The Brown 
Kimona, by Irving Wiles; Italian Woman and Child, by Alice Pike 
Barney ; and two small landscapes by Alice Pike Barney. 

Henri G. Courtais is under contract for renovation of the follow- 
ing paintings : St. Ursula, by undetermined artist ; Virgin Enthroned, 
by Abbott H. Thayer ; Thomas George Hodgkins, by Robert Gordon 
Hardie; Spencer Fullerton Baird, by Robert Gordon Hardie; Rich- 
ard Rush, by T. W. Wood ; Joseph Henry, by Henry Ulke ; ; Charles 
Doolittle Walcott, by Samantha B. Huntley; Ruins, by Francesco 
Guardi ; Young Girl Seated, by Thomas Dewing ; Music, by Thomas 
Dewing; The Golden Age, by Jolin LaFarge; Amagansett to East 
Hampton, by George Bogert; Duchess of Ancaster, by Sir Joshua 
Reynolds; Mrs. Price, by William Hogarth; Smuggler's Notch, by 
Chauncey Ryder; The Island, by Edwin W. Redfield; and Viscountess 
Hatton, by Sir Peter Lely. 



108 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

SPECIAL EXHIBITIONS 

July 15 through August 7, 1960. Folk Art from Rumania, circulated by the 
Smithsonian Traveling Exhibition Service, consisted of colorful costumes, em- 
broideries, rugs, ceramics, icons, musical Instruments, photomurals of villages 
and buildings, together vpith a reconstructed room from a cottage in the district 
of Transylvania. A brochure was privately printed. 

August H through September 8, 1960. Fourth Biennial Creative Crafts Ex- 
hibition, sponsored by the Ceramic Guild of Bethesda, Cherry Tree Textile De- 
signers, Clay Pigeons Ceramic Workshop, Designers- Weavers, Potomac Crafts- 
men, and the Kiln Club of Washington, consisted of 220 items including 116 
ceramics and glass, 77 textiles, 15 metalwork, 6 jewelry, and 6 mosaic. A cata- 
log was privately printed. 

Septemher 17 through October 6, 1960. 67th Annual Exhibition of the Society 
of Washington Artists, consisted of 70 paintings and 27 sculptures. A catalog 
was privately printed. 

October IS through November 10, 1960. Two Centuries of Danish Deep Sea 
Research, circulated by the Smithsonian Ti-aveling Exhibition Service, consisting 
of maps, photographs, charts, specimens, and scientific equipment. A brochure 
was privately printed. 

October 26 through December 8, 1960. Art and Archeology of Viet Nam, spon- 
sored by the Embassy of Viet Nam, centered about the Cham Civilization sup- 
plemented by contemporary crafts. It consisted of 148 archeological items (in- 
cluding the Oc-eo treasure) lent by the Vietnamese National Museums of Saigon 
and Hue and augmented by loans from the Peabody Museum, Harvard Univer- 
sity, Musees Royaux du Cinquantenaire, Brussels, Belgium, and private collec- 
tors. There were also shown, in Hall 22, Natural History Building, 196 con- 
temporary crafts items from Viet Nam. 

Following its showing at the National Collection of Fine Arts, the exhibition 
was divided to be circulated in two sections as follows : Archeological sec- 
tion — Baltimore Museum of Art ; Cleveland Museum of Art ; University Museum 
of University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia ; City Art Museum of St. Louis ; 
Portland Art Museum ; and University of California, Berkeley ; contemporary 
crafts section — Columbia University ; Brandeis University ; Michigan State Uni- 
versity; and Fine Arts Gallery of San Diego. An illustrated catalog was 
printed. 

November 27, 1960, through January 5, 1961. Twenty-third Anniversary of 
the Metropolitan Art Exhibition, sponsored by the American Art League, con- 
sisted of 163 items, including 129 paintings, 14 prints and drawings, and 20 
sculptures. A catalog was privately printed. 

December 9, 1960, through January 10, 1961. Aviation Paintings and Draw- 
ings by Charles H. Hubbell, sponsored by the National Air Museum, consisted 
of 150 paintings. A catalog was privately printed. 

January 15 through February 5, 1961. The Victorian American, circulated by 
the Smithsonian Traveling Exhibition Service, consisting of a selection of 100 
Lithographs from the Harry T. Peters Collection. 

February 11 through March 5, 1961. The World of Werner Bischof, sponsored 
by the Ambassador of Switzerland and circulated by the Smithsonian Traveling 
Exhibition Service, consisted of 80 photographs. 

March 12 through April 2, 1961. The 64th Annual National Exhibition of the 
Washington Water Color Association, consisting of 104 paintings, A catalog was 
privately printed. 

April 9 through April 30, 1961. New Jersey Chapter American Artists Profes- 
sional League, sponsored by the New Jersey State Society of Washington, D.O., 
consisted of 107 paintings and 2 sculptures. A catalog was privately printed. 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 109 

April 20 through April 29, 1961. Coins and Currency of Yesteryears, spon- 
sored by the "Washington Numismatic Society. 

May 6 through May 28, 1961. The New Theater in Germany, sponsored by 
the Ambassador of the Federal Republic of Germany and circulated by the 
Smithsonian Traveling Exhibtion Service, consisted of photographs showing 
German stage design, architecture, drama schools, and organization of theaters. 
A brochure was privately printed. 

May 7 through May 28, 1961. The Twenty-Eighth Ajinual Exhibition of the 
Miniature Painters, Sculptors, and Gravers Society of Washington, D.C., 
consisting of 179 items. A catalog was privately printed. 

May 26 through SO, 1961. Exhibition commemorating the 100th Anniversary 
of the birth of Rabindranath Tagore, sponsored by the Embassy of India, 
consisted of 40 reproductions of paintings by Tagore. 

June S through 25, 1961, Washington Religious Art Exhibition, sponsored by 
the National Conference of Christians and Jews, Washington, D.C., Region, 
consisted of 103 items including 74 paintings and prints, 16 sculptures, 10 
ceramic and glass objects and 3 textiles. A catalog was privately printed. 

June 9 through August 13, 1961. The World of Shells, a special exhibition in 
connection with the annual meeting of the Ajuerican Malacological Union. 

Respectfully submitted. 

Thomas M. Beggs, Director. 
Dr. Leonard CarmichaeTj, 

Secretary, /Smithsonian Institution. 



Report on the Freer Gallery of Art 

Sir: I have the honor to submit the forty-first annual report on 
the Freer Gallery of Art, for the year ended June 30, 1961. 

THE COLLECTIONS 

Forty-one objects were added to the collections by purchase as 
follows : 



60.18. Chinese, Shang dynasty. Vessel of the type ting. Decorations in relief 
and in intaglio with cuprite and quartz filling up the fossae. One in- 
scription inside of one or maybe two characters. Over-all height, 
0.245 ; diameter, 0.186. 

60.19 Chinese, Chou dynasty, ea. 10th-9th century B.C. Ceremonial vessel of 

the type kuei, with two handles, a cover and three short legs. The cast 
decorations (fluting and animal bands) are mostly in low relief except 
for the handles which are in the round. Patination of gray-green tin 
oxide is spotted here and there with touches of cuprite. Inscription 
of 36 characters in top and bottom. Height, 0.249; diameter, 0.263. 

60.20 Chinese, Chou dynasty. Vessel of the type yu. Body of vessel is deco- 

rated with two bands near top and base, and cover of vessel has one 
band. Bail handle is more ornate, being aflSxed by rings and terminat- 
ing in animal heads in the round. Patina is dark green, and decorations 
are in low relief and intaglio. Inscription in top and bottom is in 28 
characters. Over-all height, 0.222 ; width, 0.197. 
61.3. Chinese, Han dynasty, 206 B.C.-A.D. 221. Dragon. Decoration over-all in 
intaglio and very low relief. This animal is cast in the round; light 
gray-green patina. Height, 0.193; length, 0.366; width, 0.137. 

METALWORK 

61.12. Chinese, Ming dynasty, 16th century. Squat tripod of copper covered 
with cloisonne enamels in red, white, blue, green, yellow, and aubergine 
on light blue ground ; lotus scrolls around sides and fruit underneath ; 
elaborate gilt feet and handles of later date; carved wood cover and 
jade finiaL Minor repairs. Over-all height, 0.181 ; height without 
cover, 0.140 ; diameter, 0.190. 

61.22. Persian, Parthian period, 3d-lst century B.C. Heart-shaped gold orna- 
ment, possibly part of buckle, with two boars in a thicket indicated 
by leaves ; cast mostly in high relief with black resin filling the void 
in back, heads in the round. Ten small loops evenly spaced along edge 
of back served for sewing on. Height, 0.053 ; width, 0.050; depth, 0.010. 

PAINTING 

60.24. Chinese, Ming dynasty, by Tung Ch'i-ch'ang (1555-1636). Landscape: 
ink on paper. One inscription and six seals on the painting. Kakemono : 
height, 1.282 ; width, 0.383. 

110 



Secretary's Report, 1961 



PLATE 3 




60.15 

Recent addition to the collections of the Freer Galler\" of Art. 



Secretary's Report, 1 96 1 



PLATE 4 




60.16 

Recent addition to the collections of the Freer Gallery of Art. 



Secretary's Report , 1 9(3 1 



m 



Plate 5 



■''■'^m i 





o 



fin 



s-?, 



^4^ 



^ ^ ^ ^ r^ \^ T* ^ ^5^ 



M^ 



Secretary's Report. I%1 




^^«'^ 



^ 







£-^<S 




o 



0^ 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 111 

60.25. Chinese, Ch'ing dynasty, by Hua Yen (1682-1755). Ten album leaves of 

birds, flowers, etc. ; ink and colors ou paper. Average dimensions : 
height, 0.318; width, 0.454. (Illustrated.) 

60.26. Chinese, Ming dynasty, 16th century, dated 1547, by Ch'iu Ying. Narcissus 

and flowering apricots in ink and colors on paper. Kakemono: height, 
0.495 ; width, 0.246. 

61.10. Chinese, Ming-Ch'ing dynasty, by Ch'en Hung-shou (1599-1652). Album 

of eight leaves : landscapes and figures. Signature of artist and one 
seal plus one collector's seal on each leaf. Inscriptions (quatrains) by 
the artist on opposite leaves, each with signature and two seals. Two 
inscriptions and eight seals on double leaf following paintings ; ink 
and colors on paper. Average dimensions : height, 0.335 ; width, 0.273. 

61.11. Chinese, Ch'ing dynasty, by Kung Hsien (b. ca. 1610, d. 1689). Winter 

landscape; two seals on painting and two on mount. Album leaf in 
Ink on paper. Height, 0.205 ; width, 0.340. 

60.14. Indian, third quarter of 16th century (ca. 1560-80), Mughal period, school 

of Akbar. "Sa'id arrives with Khush Khurram on the roof of the 
castle ; sees two girls wrestling." Miniature from Hamza-nama, executed 
for Emperor Akbar. One of a set: 49.18 and 60.15. Painting: height, 
0.676 ; width, 0.513. 

60.15. Indian, third quarter of 16th century (ca. 1560-80), Mughal period, school 

of Akbar. "Umar in disguise of surgeon Mizzmuhil arrives before the 
Fort of Antalya (?)." Miniature from Hamza-nama, executed for 
Emperor Akbar. One of a set: 49.18 and 60.14. Painting: height, 
0.673; width, 0.512. (Illustrated.) 

60.27. Indian, end of 16th century, Mughal period, school of Akbar. "Prince 

Sallm with a courtier and attendants in a tent." Painted in gold and 
colors ; framed by gold-flecked borders of various widths to form part 
of an album. Inscription in devanagari characters on back. Painting : 
height, 0.170 ; width, 0.114. 

60.28. Indian, ca. 1595, Mughal period, school of Akbar. "Akbar, enthroned, 

gives an audience before a pavilion." Painted in gold and colors. Akbar's 
nose and forehead repainted ; small piece of pigment below vizier's 
mouth chipped off. Framed by inner buff border with floral decoration 
in gold ; outer border rose-colored and gold-specked. Painting : height, 
0.261 ; width, 0.142. 
60.17. Japanese, Ashikaga period, Idealistic Chinese school, 16th century, at- 
tributed to Gakuo. Rocky landscape with wild geese ; ink and colors on 
paper. Kakemono : length, 0.440 ; width, 0.330. 

60.21. Japanese, early Momoyama period, Tosa school, late 16th century. Battle 

scene. Fan-shaped ; ink, color, and gold leaf on paper. Kakemono : 
height, 0.245 ; width, 0.545. 

60.22. Japanese, Edo period, Nanga school, by Ikeno Taiga (1723-76). "One 

hundred old men gathering for a drinking party" ; ink, color, and gold 
on silk. Makimono : height, 0.538 ; width, 2.923. 

60.23. Japanese, early Ashikaga period, by Kao (fl. in 14th century). Kanzan; 

ink monochrome on paper. Kakemono : height, 1.025 ; width, 0.309. 
60.31. Japanese, Edo period. Decorative school, by Sakai Hoitsu (1761-1828). 

"The thirty-six master poets" ; ink, colors, and gold on silk. Kakemono : 

height, 1.361 ; width, 0.677. 
61.1- Japanese, Edo period, Nanga school, by Baiitsu (1789). Landscape. 
61.2. A pair of six-fold screens in ink and slight colors on paper. Painting : 

height, 1.530 ; width, 3.556. 
61.4- Japanese, Edo period, Nanga school, by Buson (1716-83). Landscape, 



112 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

61.5. figures and wind in willows. A pair of six-fold screens in ink and 
colors on silk. Height, 1.665 ; width, 3.710. 

61.6. Japanese, Heian period, Buddhist school, 12th century. Nyoirin Kannon ; 

ink, colors, silver, and gold on silk. Kakemono : height, 0.777 ; width, 
0.405. 
61.8. Japanese, Ashikaga period, Tosa school, artist unknown. Utatane 
Monogatari (The tale of Utatane) ; ink and color on paper. Makimono; 
height, 0.138; width, 10.873. (Illustrated.) 

POTTERY 

60.13. Chinese, Shang dynasty. Figure of a crouching stag with horns; fine- 
grained light buff stoneware ; hollow with opening in back ; linear 
designs all over body and head. Height, 0.172; length, 0.175; width, 
0.063. 

60.16. Chinese, T'ang dynasty, San-ts'ai ware. Figure of a seated man with 
black beard and Armenian features holding a wine skin ; buff stoneware 
with transparent glaze. Height, 0.332; width, 0.173. (Illustrated.) 

60.29, Chinese, T'ang dynasty, San-ts'ai ware. Figure of a standing female ; buff 
stoneware with transparent glaze ; finely crackled ; unglazed head shows 
remains of painting. Height, 0.353 ; width, 0.156. 

61.13. Chinese, Ch'ing dynasty. Ovoid vase with tall cylindrical neck ; fine- 

grained white porcelain with transparent glossy glaze decorated in 
colored enamels over glaze; a landscape with palaces; poem of 14 
characters; three simulated seals; four-character Ch'ien-lung mark in 
blue enamel on base. Height, 0.196 ; width, 0.098. 

61.14. Chinese, Ming dynasty, early 15th century. Large dish with plain rim 

and unglazed base; fine white porcelain with transparent, thick glaze 
with some orange-peel effect; decorated in underglaze blue; a control 
landscape with rock, coxcomb, etc., and eight flower and fruit sprays in 
cavette ; outside, "three friends." Height, 0.095 ; diameter, 0.680. 

61.15. Chinese, Ch'ing dynasty, early 18th century (K'ang-hsi). Dish with rim 

of interlocking rings ; fine white porcelain with transparent glaze, 
decorated in overglaze famille verte enamels and gold, dragons and 
floral patterns, iron-red dragon on base. Height, 0.045 ; width, 0.105. 

61.16. Chinese, T'ang dynasty. Low round box with cover ; creamy white 

porcelain, medium grain, with transparent, smooth, off-white glaze and 
no decoration. Height, 0.045 ; diameter, 0.105. 

61.17. Chinese, Sung dynasty, ting ware. Dish with plain rim bound in brass ; 

fine, off-white porcelain with transparent glaze with teardrops outside. 
Decorated with fish and lotus plants inside. Height, 0.080; diameter, 
0.304. 

61.18. Chinese, Sung dynasty, ting ware. Dish with plain rim bound in copper ; 

fine off-white stoneware with transparent glaze with teardrops outside ; 
decorated with molded bird and fiower patterns inside. Height, 0.056; 
diameter, 0.291. 

61.19. Chinese, Sung dynasty, northern celadon. Bowl with small foot and 

slightly flaring rim; grayish-brown stoneware with transparent, 
grayish-green bubbly glaze ; molded decoration inside of two babies 
amid flowering vines. Height, 0.049 ; diameter, 0.121. 

61.20. Chinese, Sung dynasty, northern celadon. Bowl with small foot and 

slightly flaring rim ; grayish-brown stoneware with transparent, grayish- 
green bubbly glaze; decorated inside with molded fish among waves. 
Height, 0.037 ; diameter, 0.094. 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 



113 



60.30. Japanese, Momoyama period, oribe ware. Tray in the form of two fana 
with vertical sides and arching handles ; coarse, buff stoneware with 
transparent glaze, decorated with brown, green, and white designs. 
Over-all height, 0.143 ; width, 0.234. 

61.9. Japanese Momoyama period, shino ware. Round dish with lip folded in 
and squarish at the rim ; three low loop feet and three spurmarks ; 
rough stoneware with thick, bubbly crackled, mottled reddish-brown 
and gray glaze ; decorated with floral designs in white slip under glaze. 
Height, 0.057 ; width, 0.170. 

61.7. Mesopotamian, 10th century. Bowl of pale yellow-brown luster painted 
on a tin glaze ; the design on the interior is a horseman turned toward 
the right holding a flag; broken and repaired, but only tiny pieces 
missing and replaced by plaster. Height, 0.058; diameter, 0.235. 

61.21. Persian, mid-12th century, lakalii ware ; large platter with carved design 
of horseman wielding a sword ; set against arabesque background. 
Broken and mended with few missing pieces replaced by plaster. 
Height, 0.086 ; diameter, 0.408. 

REPAIRS TO THE COLLECTION 

Fifteen Chinese, Japanese, and Korean objects were restored, re- 
paired, or remounted by T. Sugiura. In addition, one large rubbing 
was mounted for the University of Michigan and repairs or remount- 
ing completed for six Japanese screens in private collections. Ke- 
pairs and regilding of 18 frames for American paintings were done 
outside the Gallery. 

CHANGES IN EXHIBITIONS 

Changes in exhibitions amounted to 134, as follows : 



American art: 

Oils 18 

Chinese art: 

Bronze 8 

Paintings 2 

Pottery 6 

Stone sculpture 1 

Christian art: 

Crystal 1 

Glass 2 

Gold 6 

Indian art: 

Paintings 2 



Japanese art: 

Paintings 18 

Pottery 5 

Wood sculpture 2 

Korean art: 

Bronze 3 

Jade 7 

Metalwork 6 

Paintings. 3 

Pottery 19 

Near Eastern art: 

Metalwork 2 

Paintings 12 

Pottery 10 

Stone sculpture 1 



LIBRARY 

One of the high spots of the year was the "Bronze Symposium" 
held at the Freer Gallery, which brought specialists from all over 
the United States, Canada, and Australia. An exhibition of books 
in this special field was arranged in the library and proved a busy 
place during the visitors' free time. 

During the year 594 acquisitions were added to the library by title, 
267 by gift and exchange from other institutions and individuals. 



114 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

and 327 by purchase. Among the outstanding purchases were 
Nikon shucho shina-kodo seika (selected relics of ancient Chinese 
bronzes from collections in Japan), compiled by Sueji Umehara and 
issued in a limited edition in six volumes, 1960-61 ; Shosoin Homotsu 
(treasures of the Sh6s5in), which is to be completed in 1962 in three 
folio volumes; Figure 'prints of Old Japan^ a pictorial pageant of ac- 
tors and courtesans of the eighteenth century reproduced from the 
prints in the collection of Marjorie and Edwin Grabhoi'n^ with an 
introduction by Harold P. Stern, San Francisco, 1959, Xero- 
graphic copies of microfilms of two rare manuscripts were made. (1) 
Toban shbnpin zukan (album of sword guard masterpieces). This 
illustrated manuscript written in 1783 (De Rosny's catalogue) and 
never published is now in the Kungliga Biblioteket, Stockholm, Nor- 
denskjold Collection, No. 525. In 1912 Henri L. Joly made a copy 
and translation and issued privately 15 copies, none of which has 
been located. (2) Wu GUi-chen shu-hua chi (record of calligraphy 
and painting seen by the author, Wu Ch'i-chen), written in mid-17th 
century giving the descriptions of the works, comments, and infor- 
mation on the collections owning them, with the dates on which he 
saw them. Six volumes of text with one volume of catalogue or in- 
dex. A copy of the manuscript is in the Ssu-k'-u-ch'-iian-shu (the 
good repository of manuscripts of Chinese books) but the book was 
never printed ( ? ) . The copy in the Gunnar Martin Collection, Stock- 
holm, was presumably copied from the /Ssu-k^u-ch^iian-shu manuscript, 
and is the only copy outside China ( ? ) . The book is of particular 
importance because the author saw many of the important collections 
of his day and records their contents carefully. Many of the paint- 
ings he describes are still extant in the Ku-kung Collection, the Freer 
Gallery of Art, and other collections. Two outstanding gifts were 
Chinese painting, by James F. Cahill, Geneva, Skira, 1960 (gift of 
author) ; Persian painting by Basil Gray, Geneva, Skira, 1961 (gift 
of publisher) . 

The year's record of cataloging included a total of 967 entries of 
which 534 analytics were made, and 197 new titles of books, pamphlets 
and scrolls were cataloged. Only one-ninth of the cards required 
were available in printed cards from the Library of Congress. 

The current state of the cataloging has given opportunity for 
special projects. Mrs. Hogenson began indexing the correspondence 
of Charles Lang Freer. Mrs. Usilton prepared a subject index for 
Technical Studies in the Field of Fine Arts, vols. 1-10; revised and 
enlarged the Bibliography for the Chinese Outline; and continued 
to serve as assistant editor of IIC Abstracts: Abstracts of the Tech- 
nical Literature of Archaeology and the Fine Arts. 

There were 162 requests for bibliographic information by tele- 
phone and letter. In all, 515 scholars and students who were not 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 115 

members of the Freer staff used the library. Thirteen of these saw 
and studied the Washington Manuscripts and five came to see the li- 
brary installation. Students at Columbia University and Catholic 
University of America, who were completing their graduate work 
in library science, made surveys of the library as a part of their 
required studies. 

Lou Cushing Harden, University of Rochester, served as volunteer 
for the intern program for the summer. This program is intended to 
give students a rounded experience in the general operation and 
purposes of a gallery, and to broaden their familiarity with the field 
of art in general. 

PUBLICATIONS 

Two publications were issued by the Gallery as follows : 

Ars Orientalis, Vol. IV. 17 articles in English, French, or German, 21 book 
reviews, 1 bibliography, 5 notes, 2 memorials. 462 pp., 143 collotype pis., text 
ill. ( Smithsonian Institution Publication 4431.) 

Second presentation of the Charles Lang Freer Medal, a brochure Issued in con- 
junction with the presentation to Prof. Ernst Kiihnel, May 3, 1960, honoring 
this eminent scholar for his outstanding contributions and achievements in the 
field of Near Eastern art. 

Publications of staff members were as follows: 

Cahiix, James F. Chinese art treasures. (See under Pope.) 

. Chinese painting. Geneva, Skira, 1960. 211 pp. with 100 col. ills. 

(Treasures of Asia.) 
. The Chinese Imperial art treasures. Horizon, a magazine of the arts, 

vol. 3 (Jan. 1961) , pp. 14-25, 8 col. pis. 
. "Concerning the I-p'in style of painting," by S. Shimada. Translated by 

James F. Cahill. Oriental Art, n.s., vol. 7 (summer 1961), pp. 66-74. 
■ . Confucian elements in the theory of painting. In "The Confucian 

Persuasion," edited by Arthur F. Wright. Stanford, Stanford University 

Press, 1960, pp. 115-140. 
. A rejected portrait by Lo P'ing; pictorial footnote to Waley's Yiian 

Mei. Arthur Waley anniversary volume, London, Lung Humphries, 1959, 

pp. 32-39, pis. 
. The Six Laws and how to read them. Ars Orientalis, vol. 4 (1961), pp. 

372-381. 
. Review of "Some T'ang and pre-T'ang texts on Chinese painting." 

Edited and translated by W. R. B. Acker. Ars Orientalis, vol. 4 (1961), 

pp. 440-444. 
Ettinghausen, Richaed. Automata : Islam. Encyclopedia of world art, New 

York, 1960, vol. 2, cols. 185-186, pi. 77. (Also published in Italian edition, 

Rome, 1960.) 
. The Emperor's choice. De Artibus opuscula XL: Essays in honor of 

Erwin Panofsky, edited by Millard Meiss, New York, N.Y. University Press, 

1961, vol. 1, pp. 98-120, and vol. 2, figs. 1-19 on pis. 27-35. 
. The iconography of a Kashan luster plate. (Co-author, Grace D. Guest.) 



Ars Orientalis, vol. 4 (1961), pp. 25-64, 74 figs, on 22 pis. 



116 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

Ettinohausen, Richabd. The Illuminations in the Cairo Mosche-b. Asher- 

Codex of the Prophets . . ., by R. H. Finder Wilson with contributions by 

R. Ettinghausen. Der HerMische Biheltext Beit Franz Delitzsch, by Paul 

Kahle. Stuttgart, W. Kohlhammer Verlag, 1961, pp. 95-98, 
. Paintings of the sultans and emperors of India in American collections. 

Bombay, Lalit Kala Akademi, 1961, 19 pp. 14 col. pis. 
, Takllf (inlay). Urdu encyclopedia of Islam, Lahore, 1960, vol. 1, 

pp. 597-607, 4 pis. 
. Review of "The Chester Beatty Library: A catalogue of the Persian 

manuscripts and miniatures, vol. 1, MSS. 101-105," by A. J. Arberry, M. 

Minovi, and E. Blochet. Ars Orientalis, vol. 4 (1961), pp. 393-396. 
. Review of "The Chester Beatty Library: A catalogue of the Turkish 

manuscripts and miniatures," by V. Minorsky. Ars Orientalis, vol. 4 (1961), 

pp. 385-392. 
. Review of "Indian painting: Fifteen color plates," by W. G. Archer. 

Ars Orientalis, vol. 4 (1961), pp. 397-399, pis. 1-2. 
. Review of "The Nala-Damayanti drawings," by Alvan Clark Eastman. 

Ars Orientalis, vol. 4 (1961), pp. 396-397. 
■ . Review of "Persian miniatures; the story of Rustum." Introduction 

and notes by William Lillys. Artibus Asiae, vol. 22 (1959), p. 268. 
. Review of "Turkisches Puppentheater. Versuch einer Geschichte des 



Puppen theaters im Morgenland," by Otto Spies. The Muslim World, vol. 50, 

No. 3 (July 1960). 
Gettens, Rutheeford J. European conservation laboratories. Museum News, 

vol. 39 (Dec. 1960-Jan. 1961) , pp. 23-27, ills. 
. Teaching and research in art conservation. Science, vol. 133 (Apr. 21, 

1961), pp. 1212-1216, 3 ills. 
Katsuki, Takashi. Review of "The beauty of ceramics," by Seizo Hayashiya. 

Tokyo, Kawade Shobo, 1960. Far Eastern Ceramics Bulletin, vol. 12, No. 43 

(June-Dec. 1960) , p. 47. 
. Review of "Chinese ceramics, one hundred selected masterpieces from 

collections in Japan, England, France and America," ed. by Fujio Koyama. 

Tokyo, Nihon Keizai, 1960. Far Eastern Ceramic Bulletin, vol. 12, No. 43, 

(June-Dec. 1960), p. 48-49. 
. Translation of "Ch5sen toji gaisetsu," or general observations on 



Korean ceramics, by Fujio Koyama. Far Eastern Ceramic Bulletin, vol. 12, 

No. 43 (June-Dec. 1960) , pp. 19-38, 6 pis. 
Pope, .John Axexandeb. Chinese art treasures, exhibited in the United States 

Dy the Government of the Republic of China, Washington, 1961, 286 pp., pis. 

(part col. and mount.) Text by John A. Pope, Aschwin Lippe, and James 

F. Cahill. 
. Chinese art treasures cross the Pacific. The Connoisseur, New York, 

vol. 147 (June 1961), pp. 231-240, col. front., 20 figs. 
. Review of "Dated Buddha images of Northern Siam," by A. B. Griswold. 



Ars Orientalis, vol. 4 (1961), pp. 446-452. 
Stesn, Haeold P. America; a view from the East. Antiques, vol. 79 (Feb. 19, 

1961),pp. 166-169, ills. 
. A ninth-century eleven-headed Kannon. Worcester Art Museum An- 

nual, vol. 8 (1960), pp. 1-7, front, 4 pis. 
. Obituary, James Marshall Plumer. Oriental Art, n.s., vol. 7 (spring 



1961), p. 47. 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 117 

. Review of "Hokusai," by J. Hillier. London, Phaidon Press, 1955. 

Journal of Asian Studies, vol. 19 (Nov. 1959), pp. 87-88. 
. Review of "Graphic art of Japan, the Classical school," by Owen E. 

HoUoway. Hollywood-by-the-Sea, Florida, Translantic Arts, 1957. The 

Art Bulletin, vol. 42 (Dec. 1960), pp. 311-312. 

PHOTOGRAPHIC LABORATORY 

The photographic laboratory made 10,378 items during the year, as 
follows: 7,363 prints, 864 negatives, 2,013 color slides, 100 black-and- 
white slides, 38 color-film sheets. In all, 3,133 slides were lent during 
the year. 

BUILDING AND GROUNDS 

The exterior walls appear to be sound and in good condition, but 
plans are under way for roof repair during the next year. 

Painting of structural steel in the attic was begun but not completed. 
The cleaning of the interior limestone was finished, which improved 
the general appearance greatly. All concrete floors were painted and 
given a protective coat of wax. 

In storage 14 all stone storage was confined to two walls by refitting 
with new steel and wood shelving. The remaining area wiU be fitted 
in the near future for the expansion of storage of various art objects 
plus an examining table. Storage 16A is now under construction 
to provide more space for storage and a research work area. 

The doors leading from the main office to the anteroom were re- 
designed and fitted with glass. The dais in Gallery V was completely 
refinished. In the auditorium new drapes and stage curtain were 
installed. A new projector was installed, and with this second 
projector and the enlarged screen it is now possible to show two 
slides side by side for comparison purposes for the lecture series. 

Old boxwood plants from the courtyard were transplanted to the 
north entrance of the building and smaller replacements were made 
in the court. Lantana was planted around the fountain for the 
summer season and appears to be doing well. 

ATTENDANCE 

The Gallery was open to the public from 9 to 4:30 every day 
except Christmas Day. The total number of visitors to come in the 
main entrance was 130,949. The highest monthly attendance was in 
August, 19,576. 

There were 2,140 visitors who came to the Gallery office for 
various purposes — for general information, to submit objects for 
examination, to consult staff members, to take photographs or sketch 
in the galleries, to use the library, to examine objects in storage, etc. 



118 



ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 



AUDITORIUM 

The series of illustrated lectures was continued as follows ; 



I960 
October 11. 

November 15. 

1961 
January 10. 

February 14. 



Dr. Nelson I. Wu, Yale University, "In Search of a New 
Style in Chinese Painting." Attendance, 155. 

Dr. John D. Cooney, Broolilyn Museum, "Disasters In 
Collecting." Attendance, 142. 

Dr. Richard Edwards, University of Michigan, "Painting 

of the Southern Sung." Attendance, 142. 
Professor Benjamin Rowland, Harvard University, "The 

Translation of Indian Art to Central Asia." Attendance, 

203. 
March 14. Henry Trubner Royal Ontario Museum, "Han Pictorial 

Design." Attendance, 113. 
April 11. Professor George H. Forsyth, Jr., University of Michigan, 

"The Fortified Monastery of St. Catherine at Mt. Sinai." 

Attendance, 202. 

From June 12 to 14 a seminar on "Technical Studies of Ancient 
Metal Artifacts" was held, the chief purpose of which was to gather 
together specialists in ancient metals and other interested persons 
from fields of Chinese art and conservation. Problems in analysis, 
composition, fabrication, and alteration of ancient metal artifacts 
were discussed with particular reference to Chinese ceremonial bronzes 
in the Freer collections. Question periods and informal discussions 
followed each of the 15 papers read by specialists from the United 
States, Canada, and one from Australia. Attendance, 57, 44, and 52. 

Outside organizations used the auditorium as follows: 



The Bellhaven Woman's Club held a short 
business meeting in the morning. 

The United States Department of Agriculture 
held meetings as follows : 
Foreign Agriculture 

Federal Extension Service 

Food and Drug Administration 



Marketing Division, Economic Research 
Conference 



Farmers' Co-op Service 



4r-H Clubs 



October 18. Attendance, 40. 



November 14. Attendance, 198. 
May 22. Attendance, 499. 
November 16. Attendance, 290. 
INIarch 20. Attendance, 131. 
November 23. Attendance, 95. 
December 21. Attendance, 68. 
February 15. Attendance, 76. 
March 15. Attendance, 63. 
April 19. Attendance, 101. 
May 17. Attendance, 89. 
June 21. Attendance, 72. 
November 28-30. Attendance, 

150, 195, and 109. 
December 2. Attendance, 85. 

December 13 and 15. Attend- 
ance, 115 and 119. 
March 23. Attendance, 176. 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 119 

The Washington Film Society showed the following films : 

"The Story of Gosta Berling" (1923) April 6 and 7. Attendance, 254. 

Sweden. 

"Los Olivadados" (1951) Mexico. April 1.3 and 14. Attendance, 

168. 

"Munna" (1957) India, and "Song of April 20 and 21. Attendance, 

Ceylon" Great Britain ( 1934 ) . 313. 

"Where Chimneys are Seen" (1953) Japan, April 27 and 28. Attendance, 

and "Fable for Friendship." 211. 

"Farrebizue" (1947) France, and "Trut" May 4 and 5. Attendance, 194. 

(1944) Sweden. 

Three short films from the British Free May 11 and 12. Attendance, 

Cinema. 209. 

"The White Reindeer" (1956) Finland, May 25 and 26. Attendance, 

and "Glimmering" (1948) France. 168. 

"Goja" (1951) Tunisia, and "Time Out June 1 and 2. Attendance, 154. 

of War" (1955) France. 

"Bab El-hadid" (1959) Egypt, and "N.Y., June 8 and 9. Attendance, 275. 
N.Y." (1950) United States. 

Alfred Friendly, of the Washington Post, lee- May 10. Attendance, 170. 

tured on "Bushmen (African) Paintings." 

Washington Society of the Archaeological May IS. Attendance, 229. 
Institute of America showed three films : 
"Roman Mosaics," "Colors in the Dark," and 
"Book Festivities." 

On May 2, seven members of the Washington Society of the Archae- 
ological Institute of America held a Board Meeting in the Staff 
Room, Dr. Ettinghausen, president, presiding. 

STAFF ACTIVITIES 

The work of the staff members has been devoted to the study of new 
accessions, objects contemplated for purchase, and objects submitted 
for examination, as well as to individual research projects in the fields 
represented by the collections of Chinese, Japanese, Persian, Arabic, 
and Indian materials. Reports, oral and written, and exclusive of 
those made by the teclmical laboratory (listed below), were made on 
7,221 objects as follows: For private individuals, 5,438; for dealers, 
874; for other museums, 909. In all 1,373 photographs were examined, 
and 780 Oriental language inscriptions were translated for outside 
individuals and institutions. By request, 23 groups totaling 550 
persons met in the exhibition galleries for docent service by the staff 
members. Two groups totaling 24 persons were given docent service 
by staff members in the storage rooms. 

Among the visitors were 64 distinguished foreign scholars or per- 
sons holding official positions in their own countries who came here 
under the auspices of the Department of State to study museum ad- 
ministration and practices in this country. 

625325—62 9 



120 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

During the year the technical laboratory carried on the following 

activities : 

Objects examined by various methods Including microscopic, microchemical, 
X-ray diffraction, ultraviolet light, spectrochemical analysis, and specific 
gravity determination : 

Freer objects examined 19 

Outside objects examined 93 

The following projects were undertaken by the laboratory during 
the year: 

1. For a period of three weeks, February 24 to March 15, Miss Elisa- 
beth West worked as a guest in the Conservation Center of the Insti- 
tute of Fine Arts, New York University, where she continued the 
spectrochemical analyses of inscribed ceremonial bronzes from the 
Freer collections. 

2. In April 1961, R. J. Gettens, at the Conservation Center of the 
Institute of Fine Arts, New York University, gave a seminar entitled 
"Use of the Microscope in Examination of Works of Art." Attend- 
ance, 8. 

3. R. J. Gettens continued as editor and Miss West as assistant editor 
of lie Abstracts published by the International Institute for Conser- 
vation of Historic and Artistic Works, London, England. 

4. Continued systematic collection of data on the technology of an- 
cient copper and bronze in the Far East. 

By invitation the following lectures were given outside the Gallery 
by staff members (illustrated unless otherwise noted) : 

IdQO 

August 11. Dr. Ettinghausen, at the Twenty-fifth International Con- 

gress of Orientalists, Moscow, U.S.S.R., "Pre-Mughal- 
Indo-Muslim Manuscripts." 

September 15. Dr. Ettinghausen, at the American School of Oriental Re- 

search, Jerusalem, Israel, "The Interrelationship of 
India and the Near East in the Middle Ages." 

October 20. Dr. Cahill, at Yale University, New Haven, Conn., "The 

Coming Discovery of Chinese Paintings." 

November 1. Dr. Ettinghausen, at Ankara University, Turkey, "Variety 

of Arts in Museums of Iran, Pakistan, and Turkey." 

November 13. Dr. Cahill, at Miami University, Oxford, Ohio, "The Com- 

ing Discovery of Chinese Paintings." 

November 14. Dr. Cahill, at Miami University, Oxford, Ohio, "Great 

Chinese Paintings in Far Eastern Collections." 

November 17. Dr. Cahill, at Mary Washington College, Fredericksburg, 

Va., "In Search of Chinese Paintings." 

November 28. Dr. Cahill, at the Japan-America Society, Washington, 

D.C., "The Southern School in Japanese Painting." 

January 12. Dr. Stern, at Regents' Dinner, Smithsonian Institution, 

Washington, D.C., "Hokusal." 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 



121 



January 19. Dr. Ettinghausen, at Hermitage Foundation, Norfolk, Va., 

"Islamic Art in the Mediterranean World." 

February 3. Dr. Ettinghausen began teaching a semester's course on 

"Islamic Painting" at New York University. 

February 6. Dr. Cahill began an academic course of lectures on Chinese 

paintings at the American University, Washington, D.C. 

February 14-15. Dr. Ettinghausen, at University of Southern Illinois, Car- 

bondale. 111., "Mughal Painting : A Critical Comparison." 

February 23. Dr. Stern, at the University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, Mich., 

"Japanese Paintings of the Tokugawa Period." 

February 24. Dr. Cahill, at the Institute of Contemporary Arts, Wash- 

ington, D.C, "Chinese Art and the Contemporary West." 

March 10. Dr. Ettinghausen, at the Foreign Service Institute, Wash- 

ington, D.C, "Islamic Art." 

March 16. Dr. Cahill, at Walters Art Gallery, Baltimore, Md., "Great 

Chinese Paintings in Far Eastern Collections." 

March 24. Dr. Ettinghausen, at Macalester College, St. Paul, Minn., 

"Islamic Art." 

March 30. Dr. Cahill, at the Chinese Art Society, Asia House, New 

York City, "Chinese Art and the Contemporary West." 

April 3. Dr. Pope, at the Far Eastern Luncheon Association, Carl- 

ton Hotel, Washington, D.C, "The Chinese Exhibition." 
(Not illustrated.) 

April 12. Dr. Stern, at the Birmingham Museum of Art, Birming- 

ham, Ala., "Japanese Painting of the Tokugawa Period." 

April 15. R. J. Gettens, at the Conservation Center, Institute of Fine 

Arts, New York University, "A Proposed Handbook for 
Analysis of Materials of Art and Archaeology." 

May 23. R. J. Gettens, at the American Association of Museums 

meeting, Detroit, Mich., "Maya Blue : An Unsolved Prob- 
lem in Ancient Pigment." 

May 23. Elisabeth West, at the American Association of Museums 

meeting, Detroit, Mich., "Efflorescent Salts on Museum 
Objects." 

June 6-11. Dr. Cahill, at the National Gallery of Art, Washington, 

D.C, gave seven lectures on "The Chinese Exhibition." 

Members of the staff traveled outside Washington on official busi- 
ness as follows : 



I960 



July 1. 



July 18- 
December 16. 



Dr. Stern, in New York City, examined objects at dealers 
and in museums and private collections. 

Dr. Ettinghausen attended the 25th International Con- 
gress of Orientalists in Moscow on behalf of the Smith- 
sonian Institution and the American Council of Learned 
Societies, as well as the Cultural Seminar on Art and 
Archaeology of the CENTO Powers, in Ankara, on be- 
half of the Department of State. He also studied Is- 
lamic objects, paintings, and manuscripts in the museums 
and libraries of Dublin, London, Oxford, Paris, Hamburg, 
Bukhara, Kabul, Teheran, Damascus, Jerusalem, Qusair, 
'Ajnra, Cairo, Istanbul, Ankara, Konya, Bursa, Vienna, 
Milan, Florence, Bologna, Rome, Palermo, and Madrid. 



122 



ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 



September 7-14. 



September 8-23. 



October 22. 

November 5. 
December 14-18. 



1961 
January 6. 
January 9-10. 

January 19. 

January 23. 

January 26. 



February 17. 
February 17- 
March 20. 

February 21- 
April 10. 

Marcb 29- 
April 1. 
April 22. 
April 28- 
May 2. 
May 4, 5. 



May 12-16. 



Dr. Stern, in New York City, examined objects at dealers 
and in museums and attended exhibitions at the Mu- 
seum of Modern Art and the Metropolitan Museum. 

Elisabeth H. West spent two weeks in England visiting 
laboratories and conferring with members of various 
staffs in London : Research Laboratory ; British Mu- 
seum ; National Gallery of Art ; Victoria and Albert Mu- 
seum ; Institute of Archaeology ; Courtauld Institute of 
Art ; University of London ; and the Percival David 
Foundation of Chinese Art. Oxford : Research Labora- 
tory for Archaeology and the History of Art. 

Dr. Cahill, in New York City, examined Chinese paintings 
belonging to dealers and museums, and attended an ex- 
hibition of Chinese paintings at Asia House. 

Dr. Cahill, in New York City, examined Chinese paintings 
belonging to a private collector. 

Dr. Stern and T. Sugiura, in New York City, attended an 
official meeting of the Rockefeller Foundation ; attended 
the opening of the Modern Japanese Craft Show at the 
Museum of Decorative Arts ; an exhibition of Japanese 
screens at the Willard Gallery ; the Rappert exhibition 
at Asia House ; and examined objects. 

Dr. Ettinghausen, in New York City, examined objects. 

Dr. Pope, in Boston, attended the final meeting of the Far 
Eastern Ceramic Group. 

Dr. Ettinghausen, in New York City, examined objects at 
dealers. 

Mr. Gettens, in New York City, attended meetings of the 
Conservation Committee at the Institute of Fine Arts, 
New York University. 

Dr. Cahill, in New York City, broadcast over THE VOICE 
OF UNESCO, Riverside Radio program WRVR, on 
"Books and the Artist." 

Dr. Ettinghausen, in New York City, examined objects. 

Dr. Pope, in Geneva, Switzerland, for consultations re- 
garding printing of the catalogue for the Chinese 
Exhibition. 

Dr. Stern, in Chicago, Seattle, San Francisco, Santa Bar- 
bara, Los Angeles, Kansas City, and Cleveland, examined 
objects in museums, private collections and at dealers. 

Dr. Cahill, in New York City, examined objects. 

Dr. Cahill, in Chicago, examined objects. 
Dr. Pope, in Chicago, examined objects. 

Mrs. Lnor O. West, in the Boston area, attended the meet- 
ings of the Museum Store Managers Association held in 
the Museum of Fine Arts, Worcester Art Mxiseum, and 
Old Sturbridge Village. 

Dr. Pope, in Philadelphia, appeared on the University 
Museum's WCAU-TV program, WHAT IN THE WORLD, 
later going on to New York City to examine objects. 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 123 

May 18-24. Dr. Stern, in Philadelphia, examined objects at the Phila- 

delphia Museum of Art, and later, in New York City. 

As in former years, members of the staff undertook a wide variety 
of peripheral duties outside the Gallery, served on committees, held 
honorary posts, and received recognitions. 
Kespectf ully submitted. 

A. G. Wenley, Director. 
Dr. Leonard Carmichael, 
Secretary^ Smithsonian Institution. 



Report on the National Air Museum 

Sir : I have the honor to submit the following report on the activi- 
ties of the National Air Museum for the fiscal year ended June 30, 
1961: 

Administrative studies and planning continued for the new Na- 
tional Air Museum Building, pending the appropriation of planning 
funds. 

Many interesting and historically significant accessions were re- 
ceived during the year. Among the more notable ones were a full-size 
mock-up of an inertial guidance platform used for navigation in 
space-flight vehicles, from the Autonetics Division of North American 
Aviation, Inc. ; an early Curtiss-built OX-5 aircraft engine, from the 
Massachusetts Institute of Technology; the E-VX 1-5, first re- 
covered nose cone after a flight of intercontinental range, from the 
U.S. Air Force; three additional volumes of Dr. Kobert Goddard's 
notes on his experiments, from Mrs. Goddard; the XF8U-1 "Cru- 
sader" airplane (the "One X"), from Chance Vought Aircraft Com- 
pany and the U.S. Navy; the Hiller "Flying Platform," from the 
U.S. Army and Navy; memorabilia of Norman Prince of the Lafa- 
yette Escadrille, from Frederick H. Prince, Jr.; Discoverer XIII, 
first recovered orbiting satellite, from the U.S. Air Force; the "Que 
Sera Sera," first airplane to land at the South Pole, from the U.S. 
Navy; 150 volumes of Pilots and Engine Manuals, from the Shell 
Companies Foundation; the first camera to take stabilized motion 
pictures of the earth from space, from the General Electric Company ; 
the radio transmitter used by Adm. Richard E. Byrd in his historic 
first flight over the South Pole ; and a painting of astronaut Alan B. 
Shepard, from Congressman James Fulton. 

The name of the old Aircraft Building was changed to the Air and 
Space Building to reflect the many famous firsts of space flight now 
exhibited. During the fiscal year, 987,858 visitors to this renovated 
display were counted. It is expected that the Mercury capsule "Free- 
dom 7" will be placed in this building shortly. 

Information service continued to increase during the year. The 
museum now averages about 400 letters per month, furnishing histori- 
cal, teclinical, and biographical information on air and space flight 
to authors, researchers, schools, government agencies, and the public. 

ADVISORY BOARD 
No formal meetings of the Advisory Board were held. Individual 
members were consulted from time to time. 
124 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 125 

SPECIAL EVENTS 
The following special presentation ceremonies were held during 
the year. The RVX 1-5 nose cone, presented by Gen. Bernard A. 
Schriever, USAF; a Beechcraft Executive airplane, presented by 
George L. Lee, Sr., chairman of the board of the Red Devil Tool Co.; 
the Able-Baker space flight equipment, presented by Lt. Gen. J. H. 
Hinrichs, U.S. Army ; the XF8U-1 "Crusader," presented by Charles 
J. McCarthy of Chance- Vought Company and Adm. James S. Russell 
of the Navy ; the Discoverer XIII satellite, presented by Gen. Thomas 
D. White, Chief of Staff, USAF; and the first space camera, pre- 
sented by Hilliard W. Page, general manager of the missile and space 
vehicle department of the General Electric Company. 

The Director attended the Air Force Association Annual Meeting 
in San Francisco at which he was honored with the Alpha Eta Rho 
Aviation Fraternity Award for contributions to Aviation Education. 
He also attended the annual meeting of the National Aeronautic As- 
sociation, the Lester D. Gardner Lecture by Gen. James H. Doolittle 
at MIT, the dedication of the Paul Moore Research and Development 
Center at Republic Aviation Corporation, and visited numerous 
Army, Navy, Air Force, and NASA bases. He spoke frequently on 
these visits, emphasizing the importance of the proper preservation 
and recording of the history of space flight now being made. 

Paul E. Garber, head curator and historian, and curators Louis S. 
Casey and Kenneth E. Newland represented the air museum at a 
number of aviation meetings during the year. Mr. Garber delivered 
27 lectures. 

IMPROVEMENTS IN EXHIBITS 

There have been continuous experimentation and improvements in 
the Museum's exhibits, reflected particularly in the renovated Air and 
Space Building which has proved to be a valuable testing ground for 
new methods of display, in anticipation of the new building. 

REPAIR, PRESERVATION, AND RESTORATION 

Continued improvement in the facilities at the Silver Hill, Md., 
restoration and preservation division has been accomplished. This is 
now a busy little aircraft "factory," made out of storage space, pre- 
serving and restoring aircraft and engines for display in the new 
building. Examples of the work done are found in the Air and Space 
Building. 

ASSISTANCE TO GOVERNMENT DEPARTMENTS 

Service and information was provided during the year to various 
Government departments including the Federal Aviation Agency, 
National Aeronautics and Space Administration, Justice Department, 
U.S. Navy, U.S. Air Force, Post Office Department, and Bureau of 
Standards. 



126 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

PUBLIC INFORMATION SERVICE 

This service grows in volume, and requires the majority of the 
time of the curatorial staff. The historical research involved is val- 
uable not only to the the authors, researchers, historians, students 
and teachers served, but also to the Museum staff as potential material 
for eventual Museum publications. 

REFERENCE MATERIAL AND ACKNOWLEDGMENTS 

Much useful material was added to the reference files, library, 
and photographic files of the Museum during the year. This is very 
valuable to the staff for providing information, authenticating data, 
and for historical research. 

The cooperation of the following persons and organizations in pro- 
viding this material is sincerely appreciated and acknowledged : 

Air Force Logistic Command, Wright-Patterson Air Force Base, Ohio: Two 

copies of the Index of Serial Numbers assigned to aircraft through fiscal 

year 1958. 
AiTKEN, William D., Jacksonville Beach, Fla. : One photostat of page 2 of the 

Boston Herald, Dec. 5, 1909, magazine section and three photographs. 
Amos, Vincent S., St. Petersburg Beach, Fla. : 20 volumes aviation periodicals. 
Ando, Hideyo, Toliyo, Japan: Nine 4-x-5" photographs of Japanese aircraft. 
Army Ballistic Missile Agency, Redstone Arsenal, Huntsville, Ala. : 16-min. 

sound motion picture of "Recovery of Able-Baker Nose Cone," edited copy of 

ABMA-film No. 89, copy 3 unclassified. 
Arnold, Mrs. H. H., Sonoma, Calif. : A group of 36 photographs. 
Backard, p. H., Lockheed Aircraft Service Inc., Ontario, Calif.: Book, "The 

Flying Flea," by Henri Mignet. 
Bell Aerosystems Co., Buffalo, N.Y. : Motion picture, "Report on Jet Propulsion." 
Boeing Airplane Co., Seattle, Wash. : Photographs, several lithographed 3-view 

drawings of aircraft ( Boeing ) . 
Brockhampton Press, Leicester, England: Book, "Hovercraft," by Angela 

Croome, 
Brown, W. Norman, Toronto, Canada: Five4^-x-6" photographs. 
Buckley, Mrs. W. W., Washington, D.C. : One 16-X-20" photograph of a Farman 

airplane taking off from street between White House and State, War, and 

Navy Building. 
Cannon, James, Office of Pitblic Information, U.S. Atomic Energy Commis- 
sion, Washington, D.C: Two photographs of atomic bombs (WWII). 
Coleman, "Cole," New Orleans, La.: One 12-X-I5I/2" photograph of Lindbergh. 
Cox, Jere, Braniff Airways, Dallas, Texas: 19 8-x-lO" photographs (14 of 

Braniff type of aircraft and 5 of presentation ceremonies and T. E. Braniff) ; 

organization chart; chart showing Braniff routes; also four fact sheets. 
Douglas Aircraft Co., Inc., Santa Monica, Calif. : Two sets of drawings of 

Douglas "World Cruisers." 
Downer Aircraft Industries, Inc., Alexandria, Minn. : Photographs, miscel- 
laneous data on Bellanca 260. 
Early Bird Organization, E. A. Goff, Jr. : Early Bird files. 
Fairchild Engineering and Aircraft Corp., Hagerstown, Md. : Specifications of 

the Fairchild F27 and F27A. 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 127 

Fbazak, Mks. Peabl, San Diego, Calif. : Program of the International Air Meet 
at Grant Park, Chicago, Aug. 12-20, 1911. 

Geuting, Joseph T., Washington, D.C. : Copy of "The 1961 Aerospace Year 
Book." 

Gibson, Christian D., Raymond Cokp., Greene, N.Y. : 16 issues of Industrial 
Aviation magazine, May 1944-August 1945. 

Glenbow Foundation, Calgary, Alberta, Canada: Eight 8-x-lO" photographs, 
14 5-X-7" photographs, all of JL-6 type of aircraft. 

GoDDAKD, Mrs. Robert H., Worcester, Mass. : 1929 transcription of the material 
in Vols. 1 and 2 of set of 20 volumes. Report on the development of liquid- 
propelled rocket. Consists of 8 sections (337 pages) of transcript, and 8 re- 
ports of August 1929, containing 398 2%-x-4%" photographs. 

Greeson, Otis H., Washington, D.C. : 13 photographs of miscellaneous aircraft 
and shows. 

Hagert, Henry, Moorestown, N.J. : 28 copies of "Aero and Hydro" magazine from 
December 1912 to July 1913. 

Hawks, Charles R., Federal Aviation Agency, Los Angeles, Calif. : 39 boxes 
of engineering data on obsolete aircraft. 

Hoffman, Maj. Wm. Weckhan, New York, N.Y. : One photo album ; three artil- 
lery School Manuals, WWI ; one pictorial, "Belgium at War" ; one translation 
of the campaign of the Belgium Army. 

International Civil A\tation Agency, Montreal, Canada : 16-mm. films, "Ap- 
proach to Land GCA" and "Approach to Land ILS." 

Johnson, F. Roy, Murfreesboro, N.C. : Copies of two old prints of Henry Gat- 
ling's pre-Civil War gliders. 

Knabenshue, Mrs. H. Roy, Arcadia, Calif. : Books, photographs, photo albums, 
magazines, newspaper clippings, airship log books, maps, drawings. 

KoRN, Edward A., East Orange, N.J. : Three photographs. 

Library of Congress, Nathan R. Einhorn, Washington, D.C. : Miscellaneous. 

Lockheed Aircraft International, Inc., Los Angeles, Calif. : Brochure contain- 
ing news releases, photographs, and general information on Lockheed LASA-60 
aircraft. 

Martin Co., Baltimore, Md. : Drawings and photographs of Martin aircraft. 
Picture history of the Martin Co. with 3-view drawings. 

Massin, Alex, Toronto, Ontario, Canada : 16 commemorative air mail envelopes. 

Mayebman, Samuel, Philadelphia, Pa. : Four bound volumes of "American Avia- 
tion." 

McGuiNN, Capt. Michael E. Ill, New York, N.Y. : Drawing of 1906 and 1909 
Ellehamer plane, magazines and clippings on Ellehamer. 

Mead, Mrs. Clarence, Seattle, Wash.: Five photographs of Post-Rogers crash 
scene. 

Meyer, Cord, New York, N.Y. : Identification card of Lt. A. B. Thaw, II. 

Molson, Ken M., Islinzton, Ontario, Canada : Book by Alan Sullivan, Lt. RAF, 
"Aviation in Canada, 1917-1918." 

Myers, Frank A., Cleveland, Ohio : 20 pages of photostats of 1910-11 Harvard 
Boston Aero Meets as reported in The Boston Evening Transcript, September 
1910, August and September 1911. 

Navy, Department of the. Bureau of Aeronautics, Washington, D.C. : 53 photo- 
graph albums. 

Noorduyn, Robert H., Irving, Texas : One photograph of Fokker T-2, one booklet 
of Fokker aircraft. 

Northwest Airlines, Inc., Ronald McVickar, Washington, D.C. : History, photo- 
graphs of their airlines and two annual reports, 1958 and 1959. 



128 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

Page, George A., and Purdum, Vernon, Aeronca Manufacturing Corp., Middle 
town, Ohio: 36 drawings of Aeronca aircraft, E113A installation drawing, 
low wing data report, production quantity listing (1930-44) miscellaneous 
performance data sheets (2). 

Page, George, Jr., Reynoldsburg, Ohio : National Geographic Magazine, 1918-46, 
including photographs, negatives, blueprints (Curtiss). News clipping of 
Ballooning. 

Parker, Fred : One photograph scrapbook, two photographs, one book. 

POLITELLA, Dario : Book, "Operation Grasshopper." 

Research Studies Ins-htute, Maxwell AFB, Ala. : Documents on the B-29 
"Enola Gay" and organization. 

Retnolds, B. C., Santa Barbara, Calif. : Roland Rohlf's chronology. Four tran- 
scripts of personal interviews. 

Russell, Frank F., New York N.T. : Three photograph albums and assorted 
photographs. 

Sebold, R. C, General Dynamics Corp., San Diego, Calif. : Two sets of 3-view 
drawings, 1:16 scale of Convair F2Y-1 and Convair XFY-1 airplanes. 

Shipman, Ernest, International Business Machines Corp., New York, N.Y. : 
Photographs, photo album, correspondence, pamphlets. Hammer collection. 

Sikorsky Aircraft, Stratford, Conn. : Photographs and reference material on the 
Sikorsky S-61 and HSS-2 helicopters. 

Strickland, Mrs. P. O'M alley. Federal Aviation Agency, Washington, D.C. : 
Copy of "Leslie Takes the Skyroad." 

Vernon, Victor, St. Petersburg, Fla. : Two scrapbooks. 

Victory, Dr. John F., Washington, D.C. : Bound book "L'Aeronautica Italiana 
Nell 'Immagine, 1487-1875." 

Webster, Clifford L., West Palm Beach, Fla. : 135 photographs and 5 flight log 
books. 

Weeks, Mrs. Harold E., Brooklyn, N.Y. : Book of bound copies of The Weekly 
Bulletin of the School of Instruction, Army Balloon School, Arcadia, Calif., 
dated 1918 through 1919. 

Wentzel, Volkmar, National Geographic Society, Washington, D.C. : Photo- 
graph of early airship. 

Williams, Col. David M., Alexandria, Va. : Photo copy of diary. 

ACCESSIONS 
Additions to the National Aeronautical and Space collections re- 
ceived and recorded during the fiscal year 1961 totaled 266 specimens 
in 110 separate accessions, as listed below. Those from Government 
departments are entered as transfers ; others were received as gifts or 
loans. 

Aeronca Manufacturing Corp., Middletown, Ohio: An Aeronca E-113 engine 
cut-away. (N.A.M. 1176.) 

Air Force, Department of the, Wright Patterson Air Force Base, Ohio : Four 
aircraft engines of World War I period. (N.A.M. 1213.) Ballistic Missile 
Division, Calif. : Capsule that contained the measuring and recording instru- 
ments during the Discoverer XIII experiment. (N.A.M. 1183.) Through 
Marquardt Aircraft Company, Ogden, Utah: A Marquardt YRJ-^3-MA-3 
ram-jet engine, serial No. 00001, embodying the latest developments in the 
ram-jet propulsion system. (N.A.M. 1184A.) Air Force Museum, Fairborn, 
Ohio: A Russian Yakovlev 18 (YAK-18), post-World War II advanced trainer 
and nuisance raider. (N.A.M. 1153.) Air Research and Development Com- 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 129 

mand, Dayton, Ohio: RVX 1-5, the first nose cone recovered after a flight of 
intercontinental range. (N.A.M. 1159.) 

American Machine & Foundry Co., Springdale, Conn. : Model of a ground-effect 
machine developed by AValter Crowley. (N.A.M. 1233.) 

Army, Department of the, Army Ballistic Missile Agency, Huntsville, Ala. : 
Exact duplicate mockup of monlvey Baker space capsule covered with lucite 
walls (N.A.M. 1173) ; Able-Baker Project recovered nose cone (N.A.M. 1164) ; 
two Explorer I satellites (first U.S. satellite in orbit) and two final-stage 
power packs (N.A.M. 1163). Army Ordnance Missile Command, Redstone 
Arsenal, Ala. : 12 varied-scale models of Army missiles and launch vehicles. 
(N.A.M. 1175.) Ajimy Exhibits, Cameron Station, Va. : 1:24 scale model of 
Jupiter C with Explorer I satellite mounted on it. (N.A.M. 1151.) 

Arnold, Mrs. H. H., Sonoma, Calif. : Memorabilia of Gen. H. H. Arnold, includ- 
ing his personal flags of rank, dress uniform worn at his wedding, and eight 
academic hoods for the various honorary degrees he received (N.A.M. 1246) ; 
duty uniform of Gen. Arnold. ( N.A.M. 1149) . 

AtJSMUs, Reinhardt, Sandusky, Ohio: Two early aircraft propellers. (N.A.M. 
1236.) 

Atttonetics Division, North American Aviation, Inc., Downey, Calif. : Full-size 
mockup of inertial guidance platform used for navigation in nuclear sub- 
marines and space vehicles. (N.A.M. 1146.) 

Aviation Gas Turbine Division, Westinghouse Electric, Kansas City, Mo. : 
Westinghouse J-32 gas turbine engine produced in 1943-44 and the smallest 
of this type of engine produced, developing 300 lbs. thrust at 35,000 rpm. 
(N.A.M. 1180.) 

AzBE, Victor J., St. Louis, Mo. : Original letter written by Otto Lillienthal to 
his brother Gustav, Oct. 25, 1880. ( N.A.M. 1152. ) 

Bates, Mortimer F., Burbank, Calif. : 1912 aviator's helmet purchased from 
Roold in Paris in 1912. ( N.A.M. 1182. ) 

Beech Aircraft Corp., Wichita, Kans. : Model of the Beech AT-7, a World War 
II twin-engine advance pilot training aircraft. (N.A.M. 1230.) 

Cain, Charles W., Milwaukee, Wis. : An ashtray of aluminum from the tank 
of the Bellanca airplane "Columbia" which twice flew across the Atlantic 
Ocean in 1927 and 1930. (N.A.M. 1154.) 

Carmelo, Alfredo, Bethesda, Md. : Painting of Bevo Howard's Jungmeister acro- 
batic plane. (N.A.M. 1240.) 

Chance Vought Aircraft, Inc., Dallas Tex. : Model of the Regulus I surface- 
to-surface missile (N.A.M. 1168) ; the Chance Vought XF8U-1 "Crusader," 
popularly known as the "One X" (N.A.M. 1174). 

Convair, Division of General Dynamics, San Diego, Calif. : Two scale models 
of the Convair Atlas launch vehicle (N.A.M. 1224) ; 8-x-lO' photo montage 
mural of the launching of an Atlas (N.A.M.) 1215). 

Curtiss-Wright Corp., Woodridge, N.J. : 1 :16 scale model of Curtiss A-1 air- 
craft, the first U.S. Navy aircraft. (N.A.M. 1221.) 

DooLiTTLE, Gen. James H., Los Angeles, Calif.: Six items of personal memo- 
rabilia : special awards, plaques, etc. (N.A.M. 1145.) 

DuPoNT, F. v., Cambridge, Va. : Model of the Wright "B" airplane. (N.A.M. 
1244.) 

Federal Aviation Agency, Oklahoma City, Okla. : Radio equipment. (N.A.M. 
1172.) 

Fulton, Congressman James, Pittsburgh, Pa.: Loan of a painting of Alan 
Shepard, America's first man-in-space, painted by James Scalese of Pittsburgh. 
(N.A.M. 1241.) 



130 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

General Electric, Philadelphia, Pa. : First camera to take pictures of earth 

from outer space. (N.A.M. 1218.) 
GoDDABD, Mrs. Esther C, Worcester, Mass.: Vols. 21, 22, and 23 of Dr. God- 

dard's notes on his experiments. (N.A.M. 1165). 
Golden, Bernie, Asbury Park, N.J. : A propeller manufactured by the Simmons 

Co. of Washington, D.C., of a very early vintage. Fitted with sprocket attach- 
ment for chain drive. (N.A.M. 1148.) 
Grumman Aircraft Corp., Bethpage, N.Y. : Model of the Grumman FIOF 

Jaguar fighter aircraft. (N.A.M. 1238.) 
Hall, Ernest, Warren, Ohio : Fragments of aircraft and engines built by the 

Wrights, Curtiss, and Bleriot. (N.A.M. 1237.) 
Hartman, Arthur J., Burlington, Iowa : Oil painting of early hot-air balloon 

ascension at a county fair and a full-size cut-off release with model para- 
chute. (N.A.M. 1251.) 
Heintz, Ralph M., Los Gatos, Calif. : Antenna weight used on the "Floyd 

Bennett" during its flight over the South Pole in 1929 (N.A.M. 1232) ; air- 
craft transmitter used by Richard E. Byrd in his historic first flight over the 

South Pole (N.A.M. 1223). 
Hylan, Ray, Henrietta, N.Y. : Boeing F4B-4 single-engine biplane Navy 

fighter of the early 1930 period. (N.A.M. 1243.) 
Italian Government, Air Attache, Washington, D.C. : Model of a Macchi 

202 fighter, the most advanced fighter design produced by Italy in World 

WarlL (N.A.M. 1147.) 
Jouett, Col. John, Washington, D.C. : Trophy urn presented to a group of 

Americans for their service to the Republic of China during World War II. 

(N.A.M. 1239.) 
Klean, Lester E., Bensenville, 111. : Model of the Curtiss JN4-D-2. (N.A.M. 

1166.) 
Lockheed Aircraft Corp., Burbank, Calif. : 1 : 16 scale model of the Navy 

submarine-launched missile, the "Polaris." (N.A.M. 1249.) 
Martin Company, Baltimore, Md. : Model of early monoplane patrol bomber 

(N.A.M. 1225) ; model of the SM68 Titan missile produced by the Martin 

Company for the U.S. Air Force (N.A.M. 1222). 
Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge, Mass. : Curtiss-built 

OX-5 engine with manufacturer's number 6329. (N.A.M. 1157.) 
Massin, Alex, Toronto, Ontario, Canada : Set of 12 U.S. Air Force Insignia. 

(N.A.M. 1214.) 
McDonnell Aircraft Corp., St. Louis, Mo. : 1:3 scale model of the Mercury 

capsule with escape tower (N.A.M. 1231) ; model of the McDonnell F4H-1 

Phantom II (N.A.M. 1235) ; 12 1 : 16 scale models of aircraft produced by 

the donor (N.A.M. 1242). 
Mead, Clarence H., Seattle, Wash. : Pontoon flat cap from Post-Rogers plane 

wreck. (N.A.M. 1167.) 
Messerschmitt, a. G., Augsburg (through German Air Attache), Washington, 

D.C. : Model, 1 : 16 size, of the famed Messerschmitt BF 109 single-seat, 

single-engine fighter of World War II. (N.A.M. 1162.) 
MiKESH, Capt, Robert C, Washington, D.C. : Models of two Japanese fighters. 

(N.A.M. 1226.) 
Miller, L. B., Tarpon Springs, Fla. : Leather flight coat-jacket that belonged 

to Amelia Earhart. (N.A.M. 1227.) 
Modern Art Foundry, New York, N.Y. : Purchase of bronze casting of plaster 

bust of Dr. S. P. Langley. (N.A.M. 1229.) 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 131 

National Aeeonautics and Space Agency, Washington, D.O. : 14 framed 
photographs of former members of the National Advisory Committee for 
Aeronautics (N.A.M. 1161) ; 8-x-lO" piece of skin used in construction of 
lOO'-diameter "Echo" passive communication satellite (N.A.M. 1160). 

Navy, Department of the, Washington, D.C. : Production version of Pratt & 
Whitney J-57 jet engine (N.A.M. 1156). Naval Air Station, Patuxent, Md. : 
Hiller Rotorcycle, one-place, portable helicopter (N.A.M. 1245). Exhibits 
Section, Washington, D.C. : Models of technically and historically significant 
Navy aircraft (N.A.M. 1234). Office of Naval Research, Washington D.C: 
Hiller ducted platform (N.A.M. 1177). Bureau of Weapons, Washington, 
D.C. Culver TD2C-1 target drone aircraft (N,A.M. 1196) ; Grumman TBF-1 
Avenger, U.S. Navy torpedo bomber (N.A.M. 1197) ; Curtiss SB2C-5 "Hell- 
diver" aircraft (N.A.M. 1198) ; Grumman F8F-1D "Bearcat" aircraft, last of 
the reciprocating-engine carrier-based fighters developed for World War II 
(N.A.M. 1199) ; first airplane to have landed at the South Pole, "Que Sera 
Sera," an R4D (N.A.M. 1200) ; Vought V-173 "Flying Pancake" full-size flying 
model, built to examine the practicability of a low aspect ratio wing configu- 
ration (N.A.M. 1201) ; specimen of Japanese attack aircraft developed in an- 
ticipation of a "last ditch" defense of the Japanese homeland (N.A.M. 1202) ; 
Grumman F4F (FM-1) manufactured by Eastern Aircraft (N.A.M. 1203) ; 
North American SNJ-4 (AF AT-6), advanced trainer used by both the U.S. 
Navy and the U.S. Army Air Force during World War II (N.A.M. 1204) ; 
Vought F4U-1B "Corsair," single-engine, single-place, inverted-gull-wing 
fighter of World War II (N,A.M. 1205) ; Ryan FR-1 "Fireball," single-place 
twin-engine low-wing aircraft (N.A.M. 1206) ; specimen of the Kaman K-225 
helicopter, the first such vehicle powered by a gas turbine engine (N.A.M. 
1207) ; Piasecki PV-3 tandem-rotor helicopter, designed as a medium-range 
rescue and cargo vehicle (N.A.M. 1208) ; Arado Ar-196A, twin float recon- 
naissance monoplane used on the German battleship "Prince Eugene" (N.A.M. 
1209) ; Dornier Do-335 "Pfiel (Arrow)" twin-tandem-engined heavy fighter, 
developed by the German Air Force about 1942 (N.A.M. 1210) ; an example 
of the Vought OS2U-3 scout observation type aircraft (N.A.M. 1186) ; Grum- 
man F6F-3 single-engine, single-place, low-wing monoplane fighter of World 
War II vintage (N.A.M. 1187) ; Douglas D-558-2 "Skyrocket," rocket-powered 
research aircraft, first to exceed twice the speed of sound (N.A.M. 1188) ; 
Douglas SBD-6, of a type used extensively in the Pacific theater of opera- 
tions during World War II (N.A.M. 1189) ; Interstate TDR-1 twin-engine, 
low-wing monoplane, designed as a remote-control torpedo launching vehicle 
(N.A.M. 1190) ; Naval Aircraft Factory N3N-3, single-engine two-place bi- 
plane trainer of World War II vintage (N.A.M. 1191) ; Sikorsky JRS-1 am- 
phibian aircraft (N.A.M. 1192) ; Boeing (Stearman) N2S-5 Kaydet, two- 
place, biplane, primai-y training aircraft (N.A.M. 1193) ; Grumman JRF-2 
"Petulant Porpoise" modified to take different experimental hull configura- 
tions (N.A.M. 1193) ; Hiller HOE-1 ram- jet-powered helicopter (N.A.M. 
1195) ; Navy-Curtiss TS-1 (TR-1), sinsrle-place biplane fighter-trainer of 1922 
vintage (N.A.M. 1219) ; components of Navy-Curtiss NC-4, the first airplane 
to cross the Atlantic Ocean (N.A.M. 1220) ; group of 34 exhibition models of 
varying scale of Navy aircraft types (N.A.M. 1253). 

Packard, Patrick H., Ontario, Calif. : Airplane designed by M. Henri Mignet, 
the first of this design built in the United States at the direction of Powell 
Crosley. (N.A.M. 1158.) 

Palen, Cole, Rhinebeck, N.Y. : Seven early aircraft instruments, mostly of 
World War I vintage. (N.A.M. 1179.) 



132 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

PiPEB AiKCBAFT CoRP., Lock Haven, Pa. : Models 1 :16 size of the Piper Apache 
PA-23, Aztec PA-23-50, and the Comanche PA-24 aircraft. (N.A.M. 1217.) 

Prince, Frederick H., Jr., Long Island, N.Y. : Memorabilia of Normau Prince. 
(N.A.M. 1181.) 

Red Devil Tools, Union N. J. : Beechcraft Model D-IS-S, an example of an 
executive transport. (N.A.M. 1171.) 

RiCKENBACivER, Capt. E. V., New York, N.Y. : A German World War I flyer's 
crash helmet and a log book showing flight operations of the 94th Squadron 
(Rickenbacker's). (N.A.M. 1247.) 

Rockwell, Col. Paul, Asheville, N.C. : Bronze reproduction of gold medal struck 
to commemorate the launching of the French aircraft carrier "LaFayette." 
(N.A.M. 1248.) 

Ryan Aeronautical Corp., San Diego, Calif. : Two 1 :20 scale models of Ryan- 
developed aircraft, the FR-1 "Fireball" and the X-13 "Vertijet." (N.A.M. 
1155.) 

Shaffer, Cleve F., San Francisco, Calif. : Experimental liquid-fuel rocket motor 
and spring scale for measuring thrust, used by donor during period 1927 to 
1932. (N.A.M. 1252.) 

Shell Companies Foundation, Inc., Washington, D.C. : Handbooks, erection 
and maintenance manuals for aircraft and engines. (N.A.M. 1212.) 

Shoemaker, Jos., Estate of, Bridgeton, N.J. : Two aircraft of 1909-11 vintage. 
(N.A.M. 1211.) 

Smithsonian Institution, Secretary's Office, Washington, D.C. : Two guilded 
metal copies of the Langley Medal which was awarded to Dr. Robert Hutch- 
ings Goddard posthumously, June 28, 196'0. (N.A.M. 1178.) ; Department of 
Arts and Manufactures : Three examples of airplane tail-wheel tires pro- 
duced by the B. F. Goodrich Company. (N.A.M. 1185.) 

Todd, H. S., Miami Springs, Fla. : A unique 5-cylinder, radial model aircraft 
engine, complete with accessories and a 3-blade adjustable-pitch propeller. 
(N.A.M. 1150.) 

Tracy, Daniel, Lakewood, Ohio: Model 1:16 size of the Curtiss R-6 racer, 
winner of the 1922 Pulitzer Prize Race. (N.A.M. 1216.) 

United Control Corp., Seattle, Wash.: Aircraft warning tone generator for 
Cessna 210. (N.A.M. 1170.) 

Walker, L. L., Jr., Houston, Tex.: A gi-oup of 10 historically and technically 
significant engines (N.A.M. 1250) ; wooden timing disk for a Hispano-Suiza 
engine. (N.A.M. 1184.) 

Waterman, Waldo, San Diego, Calif. : The Waterman Aerobile, a unique ex- 
ample of the airplane-automobile combination. (N.A.M. 1228.) 

Wright, Orville, Estate of, Dayton, Ohio : The original Wright Brothers' aero- 
plane, invented and built by Wilbur and Orville Wright, and flown by them at 
Kitty Hawk, N.C, December 17, 1903. (N.A.M. 1169.) 

Respectfully submitted. 

Philip S. Hopkins, Director. 
Dr. Leonaed Caemichael, 

Secretary^ Smithsonian Institution. 



Report on the National Zoological Park 

Sir : I have the honor to submit the following report on the activ- 
ities of the National Zoological Park for the fiscal year ended June 
30, 1961: 

GIFTS 

From the standpoint of both popular interest and rarity, the out- 
standing gift of the year was the white tigress, Mohini of Rewa, which 
arrived on December 4, 1960. This beautiful animal, cream colored 
with brown to black stripes and ice-blue eyes, was the gift of the 
Metropolitan Broadcasting Corporation of New York and Ealph Scott 
of Washington, D.C. The Director of the National Zoological Park, 
accompanied by Beit Barker, senior keeper of small mammals, flew 
to India to select the tiger from a litter of four white cubs raised by 
the Maharajah of Rewa and escort it to Washington. Thomas J. 
Abercrombie, staff member of the National Geographic Magazine, 
joined the Zoo men in Rewa to make photographs. The Maharajah 
had captured a male white tiger cub in 1951, and when it was adult 
mated it to a normal-colored Bengal tiger. The young were all the 
usual orange color. Then he mated the white male to one of the 
female offspring, and the resulting four cubs were all white. A 
subsequent litter, from the same parents, had one orange and two 
white cubs. Mohini was formally presented to President Eisenhower 
on the White House lawn by John Kluge, president of the Board of 
the Metropolitan Broadcasting Corporation, as a gift to the children 
of America. Mohini, when she arrived, was a little over 2 years old 
and weighed about 200 pounds. Her name is Hindi for Enchantress, 
and she continues to enchant the throngs who daily come to see her. 
She is the only white tiger in any zoo in the world at this time. 

Through the efforts of Mrs. Ira J. Heller, the "Share Your Birth- 
day Foundation" — an organization to promote international good will 
among children — brought an Indian elephant as a gift from the chil- 
dren of India and the Maharajah of Mysore to the children of 
America. Ambika is a female approximately 9 years old and weighs 
2,820 pounds. She arrived in the United States on April 14, 1961, 
after a 47-day voyage on the S.S. Steel Architect of the Isthmian 
Line. Between various appearances before school children in other 
cities she is on deposit in the National Zoological Park, wliich will 
eventually be her permanent home. 

133 



134 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

The Montana State Fish and Game Department, of Helena, Mont., 
sent to the Zoo five bigliom sheep and one Rocky Mountain goat, thus 
helping to build up the collection of North American game animals. 

The Department of External Affairs, Canadian Government, Ot- 
tawa, gave a pair of Canadian beavers. On May 31 they were for- 
mally presented by the Speaker of the Canadian Senate, Mark Drouin, 
and the Speaker of the Canadian House, Roland Michener, and ac- 
cepted on behalf of the Smithsonian Institution by Assistant Secretary 
Remington Kellogg. Representative Cornelius E. Gallagher of New 
Jersey, representing the Interparliamentary Union, also spoke at the 
presentation. The beavers were placed in the newly renovated pool in 
the section of the Park long laiown as Beaver Valley. 

Sir Edward Hallstrom of the Taronga Zoological Park Trust of 
Sydney, Australia, sent eight lesser flying phalangers, a welcome addi- 
tion to the collection. 

Through John Hoke of the American Consulate in Paramaribo, the 
Government of Surinam sent a three-toed sloth. While the two-toed 
sloth is commonly seen in zoos and has frequently bred in the National 
Zoological Park, the three-toed is a rarity as it does not adapt well 
in captivity. This animal lived from July 2, 1960, to January 29, 
1961, and produced a young one after it arrived. The baby, unfor- 
tunately, died after 14 days. When Mr. Hoke returned from his 
Surinam mission, he brought two more three-toed sloths and gave 
them to the Zoo on June 19, 1961. 

The Hogle Zoo in Salt Lake City, Utah, sent the Park two kit foxes, 
a species that had not been represented in the collection for several 
years. 

J. Lear Grimmer, Associate Director, made another field trip to 
British Guiana to study the life history of the hoatzin and returned 
with three red agoutis and a large collection of birds and reptiles, 
including the brown-throated conure, the black-headed conure, yellow- 
headed marsh bird, black-throated cardinal, crested oropendula, three 
species of ground doves, Cook's boa, and the rainbow boa. 

Space does not permit a complete list of all gifts received during the 
year, but in addition to those already mentioned, the following are of 
interest : 

Alston, F. J., Charlotte, N.C., sea lion. 

Armstrong, Wallace J., Washington, D.C., African lungfish, 2 angelflsh, peacock 

cichlid. 
Balakirshnan, M. P., Kerala, India, Malabar squirrel. 
Brady, James, Arlington, Va., night monkey. 
Bump, Dr. Gardiner, New Dehli, India, jungle cat {Felis chaus), coppersmith 

(barbet). 
Gate, Mrs. Robert, Washington, D.C., 2 toucans. 
Department of Preventive Medicine, Entomology Branch, Fort Sam Houston, 

Tex., cacomistle. 



Secretary's Report, 1%I 



PLATE 7 




1. Three ring-tailed lemurs from Madagascar are the first to be exhibited at the National 
Zoological Park in many years. 




2. A young serval cat, born May 2, 1961, in the National Zoological Park. 



Secretary's Report. 1961 



Plate 8 




>^\:f-4& 







1. A clouded leopard. National Zoological Park. 




2. The white tiser from Rewa. National Zu'^.LjjIcal J' 



Secretary's Report. 1961 




1. A mollier two-toed sloth and lier two-month-old bab\-. National Zoological Parr 




2. Male kookaburra (on the right) and three of his otfspring. The second ciuit 
can be seen in the nest at the base of tree. National Zoological Park. 



eggs 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 135 

Fish and Wildlife Service, Annapolis, Md., Virginia deer; Boothbay Harbor, 
Maine, 5 great black-backed gulls, 3 harbor seals; Eastern Shore, Md. (through 
Vern Stott), 2 pied-billed grebes, 6 whistling swans, 3 golden-eyed ducks, 
bufflehead ; Turkey Bay, Md., whistling swan. 

George's Pet Store, Bladensburg, Md., spider monkey. 

Harbaugh, George, Mount Rainier, Md., spiny-tailed iguana. 

Joy, Chief Petty Ofiicer J. E., San Angelo, Tex., 22 western diamond-backed 
rattlesnakes. 

Kuntz, Dr. Robert, Taipei, Taiwan, 11 green snakes, water snake, 6 green vipers 
(Trimeresurus stejnegeri), 3 green vipers (T. gramineus), striped rat snake. 

Moynihan, Dr. Martin H., Barro Colorado Island, C.Z., 4 spider monkeys. 

Muckels, R. N., Irongate, Va., spider monkey. 

Nye, Alva G., McLean, Va., golden eagle. 

Pinkston, Miss Nell S., Arlington, Va., tovi parakeet. 

Pomeroy, Mr. and Mrs. Eugene, American Embassy, Benghazi, Libya, 2 spiny- 
tailed lizards. 

Roeder, H. Edward, Churchtown, Md., red-crowned mangabey. 

Sather, Ken, Round Lake, Minn., 3 red-breasted geese. 

Stambaugh, Dean, Washington, D.C., 2 troupials, 1 yellowhammer. 

Statland, Samuel, Washington, D.C., 5 African clawed frogs. 

Swain, Mark, Las Vegas, Nev., puma. 

Wetmore, Dr. Alexander, Washington, D.C., crowned hawk eagle. 

Xanten, William Jr., Washington, D.C., collection of North American snakes. 

PURCHASES 

Among important purchases of the year were an African rhinoceros, 
three Cape buffaloes, three brindled gnus, a clouded leopard, and three 
ring-tailed lemurs. The Director, while in New Delhi making arrange- 
ments for the shipment of the white tiger, purchased a sizable col- 
lection of native birds, including bulbuls, tits, thrushes, parrots, and 
parakeets. 

Other purchases of interest were : 

Rocky Mountain goat 2 South American lapwings 

3 Patagonian cavies 2 pileated tinamous 
Emu Quetzal 

5 lesser African flamingoes 2 purple gallinules 

4 Dalmatian pelicans 7 Nanday parrots 
2 black-necked swans 2 Illiger's macaws 

4 coscoroba swans Concave-casqued hornbill 

Harpy eagle 

EXCHANGES 

By the judicious use of exchanges with other zoos and with individ- 
uals the following animals were obtained : 

Barcelona Zoo, Barcelona, Spain, 2 Goliath frogs. 

Breazeale, Edgar, Edmonton, N.C., 6 chukar quail, 8 bobwhite quail. 
Calgary Zoo, Calgary, Alberta, 2 Arctic foxes. 
Cincinnati Zoo, Cincinnati, Ohio, jaguar. 
625325—62 10 



136 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

Crandon Park Zoo, Sliami, Fla., 3 green frogs, 4 Cuban tree frogs, 2 oak toads, 

5 spadefoot toads. 
Department of Commerce, Bureau of Fisheries, 2 hellbenders. 
Emperor Valley Zoo, Port-of-Spain, Trinidad, 2 spider monkeys, blue tanager, 

2 palm tanagers, maroon or silver-beaked tanager, violet tanager, 3 jacarini 
finches, 2 saffron finches, 4 purple sugarbirds, 4 yellow-winged sugarbirds, 4 
bananaquits, 3 black-headed sugarbirds, 6 scarlet ibis. 

Hanson, Charles, Oak Harbor, Ohio, 3 banded geckos, 2 Uta sp., California king 
snake, 2 glossy snakes, bull snake, mud snake, 2 fox snakes, garter snake 
(black phase), 2 island water snakes. 

New York Zoological Park, New York, N.Y., 4 falcated teals, 2 triangular spotted 
pigeons. 

Okit, W., Wlnston-Salem, N.C., black swan, 2 mutant pheasants. 

Philadelphia Zoological Garden, Philadelphia, Pa., 4 prairie dogs. 

Phillips, Mrs. Jerry, Waldorf, Md., 4 wood ducks. 

Portland Zoo, Portland, Oreg., 2 alligator lizards, Columbian ground squirrel, 3 
North American porcupines, 2 ring-tailed cats, 10 least chipmunks, 11 golden- 
mantled squirrels, 2 murres, 3 herring gulls, 6 Washington ground squirrels, 
chickaree, 4 chukar quail, 2 Onogadoria chickens, 2 Pacific rattlesnakes, rubber 
boa. 

San Diego Zoo, San Diego, Calif., 2 Indian monitors, 8 valley quail, 4 Gambel's 
quail, 4 burrowing owls, toco toucan. 

Soiithwest Wild Animal Farm, Blackstone, Mass., 4 peach-faced lovebirds. 

Thomas, Charles, Washington, D.C., silver pheasant. 

Tote-em-In Zoo, Wilmington, N.C., 2 Asiatic chipmunks, 2 European hedgehogs, 

3 Indian monitors, 3 black racers. 

Whiteman, Robert L., Fairfax, Va., 2 hog-nosed snakes, 3 water snakes, 2 ribbon 
snakes, 3 worm snakes. 

The following animals were sent to other zoos and to private 
collectors in exchange: 

Alipore Zoo, Calcutta, India, 4 scarlet ibises, 2 roseate spoonbills, 12 wood ducks, 
2 Gambel's quail, 2 California Valley quail, 2 bobwhite quail, 2 coscorobas, 
sulphur-and-white-breasted toucan, white-lined toucanet, 3 cackling geese, 4 
red-breasted marsh birds, cardinal, Gila monster, Mexican bearded lizard, 2 
armadillos. 

Barcelona Zoo, Barcelona, Spain, 10 prairie dogs. 

Breazeale, E., Edmonton, N.C., 4 Canadian geese. 

British Guiana Zoo, Georgetown, British Guiana, 4 domestic rabbits, 4 peafowl. 

Calgary Zoo, Calgary, Alberta, Cape hunting dog, 2 brown pelicans, 2 barred 
owls, 3 night herons. 

Ceylon Zoological Gardens, Colombo, Ceylon, 6 prairie dogs. 

Cincinnati Zoo, Cincinnati, Ohio, 2 lion cubs. 

Copenhagen Zoo, Copenhagen, Denmark, 6 cardinals, white-throated sparrow, 
2 zebra finches, white-headed nun, blue jay, robin, 2 Java finches, 2 baldpates, 
30 common Anolis. 

de Lauerolle, Vasantha, Berkeley, Calif., Indian python. 

Detroit Zoo, Royal Oak, Mich., 2 Pacific rattlesnakes, 2 pygmy rattlesnakes, 2 
western rattlesnakes, 2 Amazon spotted turtles, 1 copperhead, 4 Taiwan cobras, 
2 flat-headed turtles, South American red-lined turtle, large side-necked turtle, 
Murray turtle, Indian monitor, 3 Cook's boas. 

Franklin Park Zoo, Boston, Mass., 3 red deer, 2 white fallow deer, 2 Virginia 
deer. 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 137 

Hanson, Charles, Oak Harbor, Ohio, 2 Cook's boas. 

Houston Zoo, Houston, Tex., South American rat snake, 2 common iguanas, 2 
Indian monitors, 6 pilot black snakes, black tegu, 2 African bull frogs, fox 
snake, 2 Amazon spotted turtles, gibba turtle, Pacific rattlesnake. 2 manushi, 
glossy snake, 4 palm vipers, 2 flat-headed turtles, Formosan striped rat snake, 
Formosan rat snake, 2 South American red-lined turtles, milk snake, 2 
Indian wolf snakes, 2 large snake-necked turtles, 2 Murray turtles, boa con- 
strictor, Indian python, 2 Taiwan cobras, snorkel viper, 6 tree boas, Cuban 
boa, Indian cobra. 

Portland Zoo, Portland, Oreg., Nile hippopotamus, 2 eastern box turtles, 2 yellow- 
bellied turtles, 2 eastern painted turtles, Florida water turtles, red-lined 
turtle, 2 western diamond-backed rattlesnakes, 2 African porcupines. 

Sacramento Zoo, Sacramento, Calif., 2 Cape hunting dogs. 

Salisbury Snake Farm, Southern Rhodesia, anaconda. 

San Antonio Zoo, San Antonio, Tex., black leopard, water civet, 2 golden- 
bellied badgers, lesser panda, giant Indian squirrel, 2 kelp gulls, 2 American 
ospreys, 2 cotton teal, 10 Quaker parakeets, 3 ring-necked teal, llama, 2 For- 
mosan masked civets, 3 Newman's genets, Patagonian cavy, sika deer, laughing 
thrush, 2 Formosan red-billed pies, 2 plain-breasted ground doves. 

Seattle Zoo, Seattle, Wash., 3 mute swans. 

Southwick Wild Animal Farm, Blackstone, Mass., 1 wild turkey. 

Thomas, Charles, Washington, D.C., 2 cockatiels. 

Toledo Zoo, Toledo, Ohio, 2 Cape hunting dogs. 

Tote-em-In Zoo, Wilmington, N.C., 8 fallow deer, 5 Virginia deer, elk, yak, 
Coliunbian ground squirrel, 4 eastern flying squirrels. 

BIRTHS AND HATCHINGS 

The number of young animals born in the Zoo was gratifying and 
included several "firsts," either for this Zoo or for the United States. 
The pair of Margay cats that had a young one last year produced 
another kitten, which was cared for by the mother. A baby serval 
was taken away from its mother and raised by hand. The Canadian 
beavers, which were gifts from the Canadian Government, had a 
young one just after arriving in the park and before the formal 
presentation by Canadian officials, and so it was on view during the 
ceremony. The Dorcas gazelles were equally obliging and had their 
fawn at the time when President Bourguiba of Tunisia, who gave the 
original pair to Mrs. John Eisenhower, was in Washington. 

A pair of kookaburras, a gift in 1954 from Sir Edward Hallstrom 
of the Taronga Zoological Park Trust in Sydney, Australia, began 
laying eggs in Febniary 1961. The nest was built in an opening at 
the base of a hollow tree, and the birds excavated the site until the 
nest was 2 or 3 inches below ground level. Three eggs were laid, and 
the male and female birds took turns incubating them, neither bird 
leaving the nest until the other had replaced it during the 25 days 
of incubation. On four occasions the female was observed calling the 
male by rapping on the tree with her bill, and the male responded 
immediately and entered the nest. The kookaburras had always been 



138 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

fed on dead mice, and before the eggs hatched the keepers began ac- 
customing the adults to eating mice that had been cut up in small 
pieces. These chopped mice, supplemented with cockroaches that had 
been injected with multivitamins, were fed directly to the young birds 
by the parents after the old birds had crushed them thoroughly either 
in their bills or by rapping them against the tree. Thirty days after 
hatching, the first bird left the nest, but they continued to be fed by 
the parents until they were 2 months old. Before the first brood was 
self-reliant, the female began laying eggs again, and two more young 
were hatched on June 5. 

Following the procedure of previous years, all births and hatchings 
are listed below, whether or not the young were successfully raised. 
In many instances the record of animals having bred in captivity is of 
importance. 

MAMMALS 

Common name Scientific name Number 

Hat kangaroo Potorous sp 2 

Night monkey Aotus trivirgatus 2 

Squirrel monkey Saimiri sciureus 2 

Hybrid macaque Macaca philippiensis x M. irus 1 

Rhesus monkey Macaca mulatta 1 

Barbary ape Macaca sylvanus 3 

Moustached monkey Cercopithecus cephus 1 

DeBrazza's guenou Cercopithecus neglectus 2 

White-handed gibbon Eylobates lar 1 

Chimpanzee Pan satyrus 1 

Two-toed sloth Choloepus didactylus 1 

Three-toed sloth Bradypus tridactylus 1 

Beaver Castor canadensis 1 

Prairie dog Cynomys ludovicianus 3 

African crested rat Lophiomys sp 1 

White-footed mouse Peromyscus sp 1 

Deer mouse Peromyscus maniculatus 5 

African porcupine Eystrix galeata 3 

Patagonian cavy Dolichotis patagona 4 

Dingo Cants antarcticus 1 

Common jackal Canis aureus 6 

Timber wolf Canis lupus nuMlus 3 

Cape hunting dog Lycaon pictus 5 

European brown bear Ursus arctos 5 

Grizzly bear Ursus horriUlis 2 

Hybrid bear F2 Thalarctos maritimus x Ursus 

middendorffi 4 

Coatimundi Nasua narica 3 

Newman's genet Genetta genetta neumanii 4 

Water civet Atilax paludinosus 3 

Serval Felis serval 2 

Margay cat Felis tciedii 1 

Lion Panthera lea 2 

Peccary Pecari tajacu 1 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 139 

Common name Scientific name Number 

Nile hippopotamus Hippopotamus amphiiius 1 

Llama Lama glama 4 

Bactrian camel Camelus hactrianus 1 

White fallow deer Dama dama 4 

Axis deer Axis axis 2 

Red deer Cervus elaphus 2 

Sika deer Cervus nippon 4 

Virginia deer Odocoileus virginianus 7 

Reindeer Rangifer tarandus 3 

Dorcas gazelle . Gazella dorcas 1 

Barbary sheep Ammotragus lervia 1 

Rocky Mountain sheep Ovis canadensis 1 

BIRDS 

Mute swan Cygnus olor 6 

Whooper swan Olor cygnus 3 

Wood duck Aix sponsa 2 

American pintail Anas acuta 9 

Mandarin duck Dendronessa galericulata 22 

Golden pheasant Chrysolophus pictus 4 

Jungle fowl Oallus gallus 7 

Wild turkey Meleagris gallopava 2 

Quaker parakeet Myopsittacus monachus 8 

Burrowing owl Spectyto cunicularis hypugaea 1 

Kookaburra Dacelo gigas 5 

REPTILES 

Snapping turtle Ghelydra serpentina 11 

Box turtle Terrapene Carolina 24 

Painted turtle Chrysemys picta 8 

Yellow-bellied turtle Pseudcmys scripta sp 47 

Red-lined turtle Pseudemys scripta callirostris 55 

Red-bellied turtle Pseudemys ruiriventris 12 

Red-lined turtle Pseudemys elegans 16 

Eastern water snake Natrix sipedon 14 

Florida green water snake Natrix cyclopion floridana , 29 

Island water snake Natrix insularum 45 

Garter snake Thamnopliis sirtalis 11 

Ribbon snake Thamnopliis sauritus 4 

Black racer Coluber constrictor 4 

Pilot black snake Elaphe olsoleta 13 

Taiwan cobra Naja naja atra 7 

Northern copperhead Ancistrodon contortrix 12 

FISHES 

African mouthbreeder Pelmatochromis guentheri 15 

The importance of a zoological collection rests, to a large extent, 
upon the diversity and scope of its representation throughout the 

whole of the animal kingdom. The National Zoological Park ha,? 



140 



ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 



enjoyed some measure of success in efforts to add representative species 
belonging to little-known or absent families. 

The total number of accessions for the year was 1,371. This in- 
cludes gifts, purchases, exchanges, deposits, births, and hatchings. 
Several minor species, which are best displayed in large numbers, do 
not have an individual count, merely being listed as "many." 

STATUS OF THE COLLECTION 



Class 


Order 


Family 


Species or 
subspecies 


Individuals 


Mamnials 


15 
22 
4 
2 
4 
3 
1 


51 

77 

23 

11 

8 

3 

1 


244 

419 

161 

25 

21 

3 

1 


627+ 


Birds -- 


1, 196 + 


Reptiles 


414 + 


Amphibians - 


108+ 


Fish 


86 + 


Arthropods _- 


Many 


Mollusks 


Many 






Total 


51 


174 


874 


2,-^31 + 







ANIMALS IN THE COLLECTION ON JUNE 30, 1961 
MAMMALS 



MONOTREMATA 

Family and common name Scientific name 

Tachyglossidae : 

Echidna, or spiny anteater Tacliyglossus aculeatus- 



Numier 
1 



MARSUPIALIA 

Didelphidae : 

Opossum Didelphis marsupialis— 

Dasyuridae: 

Tasmanian devil Sarcophilus harrisii 

Phalangeridae: 

Sugar glider Petaurus breviceps 

Squirrel glider Petaurus norfolcensis— 

Phascoloniidae : 

Hairy-nosed wombat Lasiorhinus latifrons^. 

Mainland wombat Wombatus hirsutiis 

Macropodidae : 

Red kangaroo Macropus rufus 

Tree kangaroo Dendrolagus matschici. 

Rat kangaroo Potorous sp 



INSECTIVORA 



Erinaceidae : 

European hedgehog 



Erinaceu8 europaeus. 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 141 

CHIROPTERA 

Family and common name Scientific name Number 

Vespertilioninae : 

Little brown bat Myotis lucifugus 1 

PRIMATES 

Lemuridae : 

Ring-tailed lemur Lemur catta 3 

Lorisidae : 

Great galago Galago crassicaudatus 2 

Senegal galago Galago senegalensis 2 

Dwarf galago Galago senegalensis 

zanziharisus 2 

Slow loris Nycticehus coucang 1 

Common potto Perodicticus potto 2 

Cebidae : 

Night monkey Aotus trivirgatus 3 

Brown capuchin monkey! 

White-throated capuchin \ Cebus capucinus 10 

Capuchin J 

Squirrel monkey Saimiri sciureus 7 

Black spider monkey Ateles fusciceps 5 

Spider monkey Ateles geoffroyi 5 

Woolly monkey Lagothrix sp. 1 

Callithricidae: 

Cottontop marmoset Saguinus oedipus 1 

Black-and-red tamarin Sagui7ius nigricollis 1 

Cercopithecidae : 

Toque, or bonnet monkey Macaca sinica 3 

Javan macaque Macaca irus mordax 2 

Crab-eating macaque Macaca irus 1 

Philippine macaque Macaca philippinensis 2 

Macaque hybrid Macaca philippinensis X 

Macaca irus 2 

Rhesus monkey Macaca mulatta 4 

Formosan monkey Macaca cyclopis 2 

Red-faced macaque Macaca speciosa 1 

Barbary ape Macaca sylvanus 13 

Moor macaque Macaca maurus 1 

Gray-cheeked mangabey Cercocebus albigena 1 

Agile mangabey Cercocebus galeritus agilis 1 

Golden-bellied mangabey Cercocebus galeritus chrysogaster 1 

Red-crowned mangabey Cercocebus torquatus 2 

Sooty mangabey Cercocebus fuliginosus 5 

Crested mangabey Cercocebus aterrimus opden- 

boschii 2 

Blacked-crested mangabey Cercocebus aterrimus 3 

Chacma baboon Papio comatus 1 

Mandrill Mandrillus sphinx 1 

Gelada baboon Theropithecus gelada 1 

Vervet guenon Ceropithecus aethiops pygery- 

thrus 1 

Green guenon Cercopithecus aethiops sabaeus 2 



142 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

Family and common name Scientific name Numler 

Cercopithecidae — Continued 

Guenou, hybrid Cercopithecus aethiops X C. A. 

pygerythrus 2 

Moustached monkey Cercopithecus cephus 3 

Diana monkey Cercopithecus diana 1 

Roloway monkey Cercopithecus diana roloway 1 

Preuss's guenon Cercopithecus Vhocsti preussi — 1 

DeBrazza's guenon Cercopithecus neglectus 3 

White-nosed guenon Cercopithecus nictitans 1 

Lesser white-nosed guenon Cercopithecus nictitans petaurista 1 

Allen's monkey Allenopithecus nigroviridis 2 

Spectacled, or Phayre's langur Presbytis phayrei 1 

Entellus, or Hanuman monkey Presbytis entellus 2 

Langur Presbytis sp 1 

Pongidae : 

White-handed gibbon Hylobates lar 5 

Wau-wau gibbon Eylobates moloch 1 

Gibbon, hybrid Hylobates agilis X E. lar pilea- 

tus 1 

Gibbon, hybrid Eylobates lar X E. sp 2 

Sumatran orangutan Pongo pygmaeus 2 

Bornean orangutan Pongo pygmaeus abelii 1 

Chimpanzee Pan satyrus 4 

Gorilla Gorilla gorilla 2 



Myrmecophagidae : 

Giant anteater Myrtnecophaga tridactyla 1 

Bradypodidae : 

Three-toed sloth Bradypus tridactylus 1 

Two-toed sloth Choloepus didactylus 6 

Dasypodidae : 

Nine-banded armadillo Dasypus novemcinctus 1 

LACOMORPHA 

Leporidae : 
Domestic rabbit Oryctolagus cuniculus 7 



RODENTIA 

Aplodontidae : 

Mountain beaver Aplodoniia rufa 1 

Sciuridae : 

Gray squirrel (black) Sciurus carolinensis, melanlstic 

phase 2 

Gray squirrel (albino) Sciurus carolinensis 3 

Fox squirrel Sciurus nigcr 1 

Chickaree Tamiasciurus douglasii 1 

Giant Indian squirrel Ratufa indica 2 

Asiatic squirrel Callosciurus nigrovittatus 1 

Formosan tree squirrel Callosciurus erythraeus 3 

Asiatic forest squirrel Callosciurus caniceps 3 

Striped ground squirrel Lariscus insignis 1 

Long-nosed squirrel Dremomys rufigenis 1 

Woodchuck, or groundhog Marmota monax 2 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 143 

Family and coinmon name Scientific name Number 

Sciuridae — Continued 

Prairie dog Cynomys ludovicianus 6 

Round-tailed ground squirrel Citellua tereticaudus 1 

California ground squirrel Citellus Icecheyi 1 

Washington ground squirrel Citellus washingtoni 5 

Golden-mantled ground squirrel Citellus lateralis 4 

Eastern chipmunk Tamias striatiis 2 

Eastern chipmunk (albino) Tamias siriatus 1 

Yellow-pine chipmunk Eutamias amoenus 7 

Indian palm squirrel Funambulus palmarum 1 

Formosan flying squirrel Pciatirista grandis 1 

Eastern flying squirrel Olaucomys volans 6 

Castoridae : 

Beaver Castor canadensis 8 

Cricetidae : 

Golden hamster Mesocricetus auratus 1 

White-footed mouse Perornyscus sp 11 

Pine vole Pitymys pinetorum 2 

Gerbil GerMlltis pyraniidum 2 

Fat-tailed gerbil Pachyuromys duprasi Many 

Hairy-tailed jird Sekeetamys calurus 1 

Jird Meriones sp 8 

Muridae : 

Egyptian spiny mouse Acomys cahirinus 10 

Egyptian spiny mouse Acomys dimidiatus Many 

Multimammate mouse Mastomys sp 2 

Crested rat Lophiomys sp 4 

Slender-tailed cloud rat Phloeomys cumi7igii 1 

Gliridae : 

■African dormouse Graphiurus murinus 1 

Hystricidae : 

Malay porcupine Acanthion hrachyura 1 

African porcupine Hystrix galeata 7 

Caviidae : 

Patagonlan cavy Dolichotis patagona 6 

Dasyproctidae : 

Red agouti Dasyprocta sp 3 

Chinchillidae : 

Peruvian viscaccia Lagiditim viscaccia 1 

CARNIVORA 

Canidae : 

Dingo Cams antarcticus 3 

Coyote Canis latrans 1 

Common jackal Canis aureus 3 

Timber wolf Canis lupus nubilus 2 

Texas red wolf Canis niger rtifus 2 

Arctic fox Alopex lagopus 2 

Red fox Vulpes fulva 1 

Kit fox Vulpes macrotis 2 

Fennec Fennecus zerda 2 

Big-eared fox Otocyon megalotis 1 

Raccoon dog Nyctereutes procyonoides 3 



144 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

Family and common name Bcientiflo name Number 

Canldae — Continued 

Cape hunting dog Lycaon pictus . 2 

Ursidae : 

Spectacled bear Tremarctos omatus 1 

Himalayan bear Selenarctos thibetanus thibet- 

anus 2 

Japanese black bear Selenarctos thibetanus japoni- 

cus 1 

Korean bear Selenarctos thibetanus ussuri- 

cus 2 

Black bear Euarctos americanus 2 

European brown bear TJrsus arctos 3 

Iranian brown bear TJrsus arctos occidentalis 2 

Alaskan Peninsula bear Ursus gyas 2 

Grizzly bear Ursus horribilis 2 

Sitka brown bear Ursus sitkensis 1 

Polar bear Thalarctos maritimus 2 

Hybrid bear Thalarctos maritimus X Ursus 

tniddendorffi 4 

Malay sun bear Helarctos malayanus 2 

Sloth bear Melursus ursinus 2 

Procyonidae : 

Raccoon Procyon lotor 10 

Raccoon (black phase) Procyon lotor 1 

Raccoon (albino) Procyon lotor 1 

Coatimundi Nasua narica 4 

Cacomistle, or ring-tailed cat Bassariscus astutus 5 

Kinkajou Potos flavus 4 

Olingo Bassaricyon gabbi 2 

Lesser panda Ailurus fulgens 3 

Mustelidae : 

Ferret Mustela eversmanni 1 

Marten Martes americana 1 

Fisher Martes pennanti 1 

Tayra Eira barbara 1 

Grison Oalictis vittata 1 

Zorilla, or striped weasel Ictonyx capensis 2 

Wolverine Gulo luscus 1 

American badger Taxidea taxus 1 

Golden-bellied ferret-badger Helictis moschata subauran- 

tiaca 3 

Common skunk Mephitis mephitis 3 

California spotted skunk Spilogale putorius phenax 1 

South American flat-tailed otter Pteronura brasiliensis 1 

Viverridae : 

Genet Genetta genetta neumanii 8 

Genet (black phase) Genetta genetta neumanii 1 

Formosan spotted civet Viverricula indica 2 

Ground civet Viverra tangalunga 1 

Linsang Prionodon linsang 1 

African palm civet Nandinia binotata 2 

Formosan masked civet Paguma larvata taivana 1 

Binturong Arctictis binturong 1 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 145 

Famtty and common name Ecientiflc name Number 

Viverridae — Continued 

African gray mongoose Herpestes ichneumon 1 

Black-footed mongoose Bdeogale sp , 2 

African water civet AHlax paludinosus 5 

Striped African mongoose Crossarchus fasciatus 2 

White-tailed civet Ichneumia albicauda 1 

Cryptoproctidae : 

Fossa Cryptoprocta ferox 1 

Hyaenidae : 

Striped hyena Hyaena hyaena 2 

Felidae : 

Jungle cat Felis chaus 2 

Pallas's cat Felis manul 2 

Serval cat Felis serval 4 

Ocelot Felis pardalis 2 

Margay cat Felis wiedii tigrina 4 

Puma Felis concolor 3 

Lynx Lynx canadensis 1 

Bobcat Lynx rufus 2 

Leopard Panthera pardus 5 

Black leopard Panthera pardus 2 

Lion Panthera leo 3 

Bengal tiger Panthera tigris 3 

Bengal tiger (white phase) Panthera tigris 1 

Jaguar Panthera onca 2 

Clouded leopard Neofelis nehulosa 1 

Snow leopard Panthera uncia 3 

Cheetah Acinonyx jubata 2 

PINNIPEDIA 

Otariidae : 

California sea-lion Zalophua californianus 6 

Patagonian sea-lion Otaria fiavescens 1 

Phocidae: 

Harbor seal Phoca vitulina 3 

TUBULIDENTATA 

Orycteropodidae : 

Aardvark, or antbear Orycteropus afer 1 



PROBOSCIDEA 

Elephantidae : 

African elephant Loxodonta africana 1 

Forest elephant Loxodonta cyclotis 1 

Indian elephant Elephas maximus 2 

HYRACOIDEA 

Procaviidae : 
Hyrax Procavia syriaca 1 

PERISSODACTYLA 

Equidae : 

Mongolian wild horse Equus przewalskii 1 

Burro, or donkey Equus asinus 1 

Grant's zebra Equus burchelli boehrni 3 



146 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

Fdmily and common name Scientific name Number 

Equidae — Continued 

Grevy's zebra Equus grevyi 2 

Tapiridae : 

Brazilian tapir Tapirus terrestris 1 

Rhinocerotidae : 

Great one-horned Indian rhinoceros Rhinoceros unicornis 1 

White, or square-lipped rhinoceros Ceratoiherium sitniim. 2 

African black rhinoceros Diceros bicornis 1 

ARTIODACTYLA 

Tayassuidae : 

Collared peccary Pecari tajacu 3 

Hippopotamidae : 

Hippopotamus Hippopotamus amphihius 2 

Pygmy hippopotamus Choeropsis liberiensis 4 

Camelidae : 

Llama Lama glama 6 

Guanaco Lama glama guanicoe 3 

Alpaca Lama pacos 4 

Bactrian camel Camelus lactrianus 2 

Cervidae : 

White fallow deer Dama dama 6 

Axis deer Axis axis 5 

Red deer Cervus elaphus 8 

American elk Cervus canadensis 2 

Sika deer Cervus nippon 10 

P6re David's deer Elaphurus davidianus 1 

Virginia deer Odocoileus virginianus 9 

Reindeer Rangifer tarandus 13 

Forest caribou Rangifer caribou 1 

Giraffidae : 

Nubian giraffe Giraffa camelopardalis 1 

Antilocapridae : 

Pronghorn Antilocapra americana 1 

Bovidae : 

Sitatunga Tragelaphus spekii 1 

Brindled gnu Connochaetes taurinus 3 

Anoa Anoa depressicornis 2 

Zebu Bos indicus 1 

Yak Poephngus grunniens 3 

Gaur Bibos gaums 3 

African buffalo Syncerus caffer 4 

American bison Bison bison 2 

Wisent, or European bison Bison bonasus 2 

Dorcas gazelle Oazella dorcas 3 

Rocky mountain goat Orcamnos americanus 3 

Tahr Eermitragus jemlahicus 1 

Ibex Capra ibex 1 

Blue sheep Pseudois nayaur 1 

Aoudad Ammotragus lervia 4 

Big-horn sheep Ovis canadensis 5 

Dall sheep Ovis dalU dalli 2 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 147 



BIRDS 



SPHENISCIFORMES 



Family and common name Scientiflc name Number 

Spheniscidae : 

King penguin Aptenodytes patagonica 4 

Ad^lie penguin Pygoscelis adeliae 2 

STRUTHIONIFORMES 

Struthionidae : 
Ostrich Struthio camelus 1 

RHEIFORMES 

Eheidae : 
Rhea Rhea americana 1 

CASUARHFORMES 

Casuariidae : 
Cassowary Casuarius sp 2 

Dromiceidae : 
Emu Dromiceiua novaehollandiae 5 

TINANIIFORMEa 

Tinamidae : 
Pileated tinamou Crypturus soui panamensis 1 

PBOCEIXAEHFOBMES 

Diomedeidae : 
Black-footed albatross Diomedea nigripes 2 

PELECANIFORMES 

Pelecanidae : 

Rose-colored pelican_ Pelecanus onocrotalus 2 

White pelican Pelecanus erythrorhynchos 3 

Brown pelican Pelecanus occidentalis 1 

Dalmatian pelican Pelecanus crispus 4 

Phalacrocoracidae : 

Double-crested cormorant Phalacrocorax auritus auritus 4 

Farallon cormorant Phalacrocorax auritus 

albociliatus 1 

European cormorant Phalacrocorax carlo 6 

Anhingidae : 

Anhinga, or snakebird Anhinga anhinga 1 

Indian darter Anhinga melanogaster 2 

CICONIIFORMES 

Ardeidae : 

Reddish egret Dichromanassa rufescens 3 

Reddish egret (white phase) Dichromanassa rufescens 1 

Cattle egret Buhulcus iUs 3 

American egret Casmerodius alius 1 



148 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

Family and common name Bcientific name ^Mmftcr 

Ardeidae — Continued 

Snowy egret Leucoplioyx thula 2 

Great white heron Ardca occidentalis 2 

Eastern green heron Butorihes virescens 3 

Louisiana heron Hydranassa tricolor 3 

Black-crowned night heron Nycticorax nycticorax 12 

Little blue heron Florida caerulea 1 

Least bittern Ixobrychus exilis 1 

Tiger bittern Tigrisoma lineatum 2 

Cochleariidae : 

Boat-billed heron Cochleariua cochlearius 1 

Balaenicipitidae : 

Shoebill Balaeniceps rex 1 

Ciconiidae: 

American wood Ibis Mycteria americana 3 

European white stork Ciconia ciconia 4 

Indian adjutant stork Leptoptilos dubius 1 

White-bellied stork Abdimia sphenorhyncha 2 

Threskiornithidae : 

White ibis Eudocimus albus 2 

Scarlet Ibis Eudocimus ruber 4 

Black-faced ibis Theristicus melanopis 1 

Blackheaded ibis Threskiornis melanocephala 1 

White-faced glossy ibis Plegadis mexicana 2 

Eastern glossy ibis Plegadis falcinellus 5 

Roseate spoonbill Ajaia ajaja 6 

Phoenicopteridae : 

Chilean flamingo Phoenicopterus chilensis 2 

Cuban flamingo Phoenicopterus ruber 1 

Old World flamingo Phoenicopterus antiquorum 1 

Lesser flamingo Phoeniconais minor 2 

ANSERIFORMES 

ABhimidae : 

Crested screamer Chauna torquata 4 

Ajiatidae : 

Coscoroba swan - Coscoroba coscoroba 4 

Mute swan Cygnus olor 6 

Black-necked swan Cygnus melancoriphus 2 

Whooper swan Olor cygnus 4 

Whistling swan Olor columbianus 11 

Trumpeter swan Olor buccinator 2 

Black swan Chenopis atrata 2 

Egyptian goose Alopochen aegyptiacus 1 

White-fronted goose Anser albifrons 3 

Indian bar-headed goose Eulabeia indica 5 

Emperor goose Philacte canagica 2 

Blue goose Chen caerulescens 6 

Lesser snow goose Chen hyperborea hyperborea 2 

Greater snow goose Chen hyperborea atlantica 5 

Ross's goose Chen rossii 4 

Red-breasted goose Branta ruflcoUis 4 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 149 

Family and common name Scientific namt Number 

Anatidae — Continued 
Canada goose 

Lesser Canada goose ^ ^^^^^^ canadensis 30 

Cackling goose 

White-cheeked goose 

Canada goose X blue goose, hybrid— Branta canadensis X Chen 

caerulescens 2 

"Wood duck Aix sponsa Many 

"Wood duck X red-headed duck, Aix sponsa X AytUya americana^ 1 

hybrid 

Pintail duck Anas acuta 10 

Chestnut-breasted teal Anas castanea 1 

Gadwall Anas strepera 5 

European wigeon Anas penelope 5 

Mallard duck Anas platyrhynchos 25 

Mallard duck, albino Anas platyrhynchos 1 

Mallard duck X American pintail Anas platyrhynchos X Anas 

duck, hybrid. acuta 1 

Indian spotted-billed duck Anas poecilorhyncha 1 

Black duck Anas rubripes 9 

Greater scaup duck Aythya marila 7 

Lesser scaup duck Aythya afflnis 5 

Red-headed duck Aythya americana 9 

Ring-necked duck Aythya collaris 3 

Canvasback duck Aythya valisineria 7 

Bufflehead duck Bucephala albeola 1 

American goldeneye Bucephala clangula americana 1 

Black-bellied tree duck Dendrocygna autumnalis 2 

Fulvous tree duck Dendrocygna bicolor 1 

Mandarin duck Dcndronessa galericulata 18 

Baldpate Mareca americana 10 

Rosy-billed pochard Metopiana peposaca 1 

Red-crested pochard Netta rufina 1 

Cotton teal Nettapus coromandelianus 4 

Comb duck Sarkidiornis melanota 1 

South African sheldrake Casarca cana 1 

Ruddy shelduck Casarca ferruginea 2 

European shelduck Tadorna tadorna 1 

FALCONIFORMES 

Cathartidae : 

Andean condor Vultur gryphus 1 

King vulture Sarcoramphus papa 1 

Black vulture Coragyps atratus 6 

Hooded vulture Necrosyrtes monachus 1 

Ruppell's vulture Gyps rueppellii 3 

Turkey vulture Cathartes aura 9 

Sagittariidae : 

Secretarybird Sagittarius serpentarius 2 

Aecipitridae : 

African yellow-billed kite Milvus migrans 2 

Brahminy kite Haliastur indus 1 

Black-faced hawk Leucopternis melanops 1 

Red-winged hawk Heterospizias meridionalis 1 



150 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

Family and common name Seientiflo name Numl>er 

Accipitridae — Continued 

Red-tailed hawlc Buteo jamaicensis 8 

Red-shouldered bawk Buteo Uneatus 1 

Swainson's hawk Buteo swainsoni 1 

Mauduyt's hawk-eagle Spizaetus ornatus 1 

Great black hawk Ictinaetus malayensis 1 

Golden eagle Aquila chrysaetos 3 

Imperial eagle Aquila heliaca 2 

White-breasted sea eagle Haliaetus leucogaster 1 

Pallas's eagle Haliaetus leucoryphus 1 

Bald eagle EaUaetus leucocephalus 5 

Buzzard eagle Buteo poecilochrous 1 

Harpy eagle Harpia harpyja 2 

Guiauan crested eagle Morphnus guianensis 1 

Monkey-eating eagle Pithecophaga jefferyi 1 

Bateleur eagle Terathoplus ecaudatus 2 

Bearded vulture Gypaetus barbatus 1 

Falconidae : 

Sparrow hawk Falco sparverius 5 

Duck hawk Falco peregrinus anatum 1 

Bed-footed falcon, or crane hawk Falco vespertinus 1 

Forest falcon Micrastur semitorquatus 2 

Chimango Milvago chimango 2 

Chimachima hawk Milvago chimachima 1 

Audubon's caracara Polyborus cheriway 3 

White-throated caracara Phalcoboenua albogularis 3 

CALLIFORMES 

Megapodiidae : 

Brush turkey Alectura latJiaml 1 

Cracidae : 

Blue-cered curassow Crax alberti 1 

Wattled curassow Crax globulosa 2 

Panama curassow Crax panamensis 1 

Nocturnal curassow Nothocrax urumutum 1 

White-headed piping guan Pipile cumanensis 1 

Phasianidae : 

Erckel's franeolin Francolinus erckeli 1 

Hildebrandt's franeolin Francolinus hildebrandti 2 

Bob-white Colinus virginianus 1 

Chukar quail Alectoris graeca 4 

Gambel's quail Lophortyx gambeli 2 

Valley quail Lophortyx vallicola 6 

Argus pheasant Argusianus argus 1 

Golden pheasant Chrysolophus pictus 7 

Onogadori chicken Gallus gallus 2 

Red junglefowl OaJlus gallus 6 

Nepal pheasant Oennaeus leucomelanus 2 

Black-backed kaleege pheasant Gennaeus melanonotus 2 

Silver pheasant Gennaeus nyctliemerus 1 

Peafowl Pavo cristatua 5 

Ring-necked pheasant Phasiatius colchicus 4 

Ring-necked pheasant, albino Phasianus colchicus 2 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 151 

Family and common name Sdentiflc name Number 

Phasianidae — Continued 

Ring-necked pheasant X green pheas- Pliasianus colchicus X P. versi- 

ant, liybrid color 1 

Bhutan, or gray peacock pheasant Polyplectron Mcalcaratum 2 

Reeves's pheasant SyrmaUcus reevesi 2 

Numididae : 

Vulturine guineafowl AcrylUum vulturinum 3 

Meleagrididae : 

Ocellated turkey Agriocharis ocellata 2 

Wild turkey Meleagris gallopavo 5 

GRUIFORMES 

Gruidae : 

Siberian crane Grxis leucogeranus 1 

Demoiselle crane Anthropoides virgo 1 

Sarus crane Antigone antigone 2 

African crowned crane Balearica pavonina 6 

Psophiidae : 

Trumpeter Psophia crepitans 2 

Rallidae : 

Cayenne wood rail Aramides cajanea 2 

Virginia rail Rallus limicola 1 

King rail Rallus elegans 1 

Purple gallinule lonornis martinica 2 

South Pacific swamp-hen : Porphyria poliocephalus 1 

American coot Fulica americana 1 

Eurypygidae : 

Sun bittern Eurypyga helias 1 

Cariamidae : 

Cariama, or seriama Cariama cristata 1 

Otididae : 

Senegal bustard Eupodotis senegalensis 2 

CHARADRIIFORMES 

Jacanidae : 
Common jacana Jacana spinosa 2 

Haematopodidae : 
Oystercatcher Haematopus ostralegus 2 

Charadriidae: 

Golden plover Charadrius apricaritis 2 

Australian banded plover Zonifer tricolor 3 

European lapwing Vanelltis vanellus 4 

South American lapwing Belonopterus cayennensis 4 

Crocodile bird Pluvialis aegyptius 7 

Scolopacidae : 
Pectoral sandpiper Erolia melanotos 1 

Recurvirostridae : 
Black-necked stilt Himantopus mexicanus 1 

Burhinidae : 
South American thick-knee Burhinus Mstriatus 1 

Stercorariidae : 

MacCormick's skua Catharacta maccormicki 2 

625325—62 11 



152 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

Family and common name Scientific name Number 

Laridae : 

Ring-billed gull Larus delawarensis 3 

Kelp gull Larus dominicanus 3 

Laughing gull Larus atriciUa 1 

Herring gull Larus argentatus 3 

Western, or California gull Larus argentatus calif omicus 2 

Great black-backed gull Larus marinus 2 

Silver gull Larus novaehollandiae 8 

Franklin's gull Larus pipixcan 2 

Noddy tern Anous stolidus 2 

Common tern Sterna hirunde hirunde 4 

COLUMBIFORMES 

Columbidae : 

Band-tailed pigeon Colurtiba fasciata 2 

High-flying Budapest pigeon Columba livia 9 

Black-billed pigeon Columbia nigrirostris 1 

Triangular spotted pigeon Columba guinea 2 

Crowned pigeon Ooura victoria 1 

Blue ground dove Claravis pretiosa 5 

Ruddy ground dove Chaemepelia rufipennis 7 

Indian emerald-winged tree dove Chalcophaps indica 10 

Bleeding-heart dove Oallicoltimba luzonica 2 

Diamond dove Oeopelia cuneata 1 

Plain-breasted ground dove Columbigallina minuta 12 

Ground dove Columbigallina passerina 5 

Ring-necked dove Streptopelia decaocto 7 

Blue-headed ring dove Streptopelia tranquebarica 2 

White-winged dove Zenaida asiatica 1 

Mourning dove Zenaidura macroura 3 

PSITTACIFORMES 

Psittacidae : 

Kea parrot Nestor notabilis 2 

Red lory Domicella garrula 2 

Banksian cockatoo Calyptorhynchus magnificus 1 

White cockatoo EaJcatoe alba 2 

Solomon Islands cockatoo Kakatoe ducrops 1 

Sulphur-crested cockatoo EaJcatoe galerita 4 

Bare-eyed cockatoo Kakatoe sanguinea 5 

Great red-crested cockatoo Kakatoe moluccensis 1 

Leadbeater's cockatoo Kakatoe leadbeateri 7 

Cockatiel Nymphicus hollandicus 7 

Yellow-and-blue macaw Ara araurauna 3 

Red-and-blue macaw Ara chloroptera 3 

Red-blue-and-yellow macaw Ara macao 2 

Illiger's macaw , Ara maracana 2 

Brovpn-throated conure Conurus aeruginosus 2 

Petz's parakeet Aratinga canicularis 1 

Rusty-cheeked parrot Aratinga pertinax 2 

Tovi parakeet Brotogeris jugularis 1 

Yellow-naped parrot Amazona auropalliata 5 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 153 

Famihj and common name Bcientiflo name Number 

Psittacidae — Continued 

Finsch's parrot Amazona finschi 1 

Blue-fronted parrot Atnazona aestiva 1 

Red-fronted parrot A7nazona budini 1 

Double yellow-headed parrot Atnazona oratriar 3 

Black-headed, or Nanday parrot Nandayus nanday 9 

Lineolated parakeet Bolborhynchus lineolatua 7 

White-winged parakeet Brotogeris versicolurus 1 

Malabar, or blue-winged parrot Psittacula columhoides 4 

Blossom-headed parakeet Psittacula cyanocephala 10 

Greater ring-necked parakeet Psittacula eupatria 3 

Rose-breasted parakeet Psittacula alexandri 1 

Moustached parakeet Psittacula fasciata 1 

Lesser ring-necked parakeet Psittacula krameri 6 

Barraband's parakeet Polytelis swainsoni 1 

Quaker parakeet Myopsittacus monachus 17 

Budgerigar, or grass parakeet Melopsittacus undulatus 4 

Rosy-faced lovebird Agapornis roseicollis 2 

Masked lovebird Agapornis personata 1 

Black-headed caique, or seven-color 

parrot Pionites melanocephala 2 

Yellow-thighed caique Pionites leucogaster wanthomeria- 1 

CUCULIFORMES 

Musophagidae : 

Purple-headed turaco Oallirex porphyreolophus 1 

South African turaco Tauraco corythaix 2 

White-bellied go-away bird Corythaixoides leucogaster 1 

Plantain-eater Crinifer africanus 1 

Cuculidae : 

Koel Eudynamys scolopacea 1 

Roadrunner Oeococcyx californianus 2 

Coucal, or crow-pheasant Centropus sinensis 3 

STRIGIFORMES 

Tytonidae : 

Barn owl Tyto alba 1 

Strigidae : 

Great homed owl Bubo virginianus 6 

Screech owl Otus asio 3 

Spectacled owl Pulsatrix perspicillata 1 

Malay fishing owl Ketupa ketupu 2 

Snowy owl Nyctea nyctea 4 

Barred owl Strix varia 16 

Burrowing owl Speotyto cunicularia hyptigaea — 3 

Nepal brown wood owl Sti'ix newarensis 1 

Short-eared owl Asio flammeus 1 

Saw-whet owl AegoUus acadicus 2 

COLIIFORMES 

Coliidae : 

Mousebird ._ ^__ ,,, Colivs striatus 1 



154 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

TROGONIFORMES 
Family and common name Scientific name Number 

Trogonidae : 

Cuban trogan Priotelua temnurus 2 

CORACIIFORMES 

Alcedinidae : 

Kookaburra Dacelo gigas 8 

Coraciidae : 

Lilac-breasted roller Coracias caudata 2 

Indian roller Coracias henghalensis 2 

Bucerotidae : 

Pied hombill Anthrococeros malaiaricus 1 

Concave-casqued hombill Buceros Mcornis 1 

Abyssinian ground hombill Bucorvus ahyssinicus 1 

Gray hombill Tockus Mrostris 2 

Great black casqued hombill Ceratogymna atrata 1 

Malayan hombill Aceros undulatus 1 

Crowned hombill Tockus alboterminatus 1 

Yellow-billed hombill Tockus fiavirostris 1 

PICIFORMES 

Capitonidae : 

Asiatic great barbet Megalaima virens 1 

Crimson-breasted or coppersmith 

barbet Megalaima haemacephala 1 

Toucan barbet Semnornis ramphastinus 1 

Ramphastidae : 

White-lined toucanet Aulacorhynchus alMvittatus 2 

Sulphur-breasted toucan Ratnphastos carinatus 1 

White-and-sulphur-breasted toucan Rhamphastos vitellinus 1 

Ariel toucan Ramphastos arid 1 

Cuvier'a toucan Ramphastos cuvieri 1 

Picidae : 

Golden-backed woodpecker Brachypternus ienghalensis 2 

Scaly-bellied woodpecker Piciis squamatus 1 

PASSERIFORMES 

Tyrannidae : 

Eastern kingbird Tyrannus tyrannus 1 

Pittidae : 

Indian pitta Pitta brachyura 1 

Alaudidae : 

Homed lark Eremophila alpestris 2 

Corvidae : 

Magpie Pica pica 5 

Yellow-billed magpie Pica nuttalli 1 

Asiatic tree pie Crypsirina formosae 2 

Magpie jay Calocitta iormosa 1 

Blue jay Cyanocitta cristata 3 

Steller's jay Cyanocitta stelleri 4 

European jay Garrulus glandarius 2 

African white-necked crow Corvus albus 2 

American crow Corvus brachyrhynchos 3 

Raven Corvus corax 2 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 155 

Family and common name Scientific name Number 

Corvidae — Continued 

Indian crow Corvus splendens 1 

Formosan red-billed pie Cissa caerulea 6 

Occipital blue pie Cissa occipitalis 1 

Hunting crow Cissa chinensis 3 

Inca jay Xanthoura yncas 1 

Cracticidae : 

White-backed piping crow Qymnorhina hypoleuca 1 

Paridae : 

Red-headed tit Aegithaliscus concinnus 1 

Great tit Parus major 1 

Gray tit Parus major 3 

Tufted titmouse Parus hicolor 3 

Chickadee Parus atricapillus 1 

Yellow-cheeked tit Parus xanthogenys 1 

Sittidae : 

Chestnut-bellied nuthatch 8iUa castanea 1 

Timaliidae : 

White-crested laughing thrush Qarrulax hicolor 4 

Tit-babbler Yuhina fiavicolUs 1 

Black-headed sibia Heterophasia capistrata 2 

Silver-eared mesia Mesia argentauris 6 

Pekin robin Liothrix luteus 4 

White-capped redstart Chaimarrhornia leucocephalus 2 

Pycnonotidae : 

Red-eared bulbul Pycnonotus jocosus 1 

Black-headed bulbul Pycnonotus atriceps 8 

Red-vented bulbul Pycnonotus cafer 5 

White-cheeked bulbul Pycnonotus leucogenys 6 

White-eared bulbul Pycnonotus leucotis 1 

Troglodytidae : 

Carolina wren Thryothorus ludovicianus 1 

Mimidae : 

Mockingbird Mimus polyglottos 1 

Catbird Dumctella carolinensis 3 

Turdidae : 

Robin, albino Turdus migratorius 1 

European song thrush Turdus ericetorum 2 

Blackbird Turdus merula 2 

Cliff chat Thamnolaea cinnamoneiventris 1 

Motacillidae : 

White wagtail Motacilla alha 2 

Sturnidae : 

Rose-colored pastor Pastor roseus 1 

Purple starling Lamprocolius purpureus 3 

Burchell's long-tailed starling Lamprotornis caudatus 1 

Amethyst starling Cinnyricinchus leucogaster 1 

Tricolored starling Spreo superhus 1 

Starling Sturnus vulgaris 2 

Jungle mynah Acridotheres tristis 1 

Lesser hill mynah Gracula religiosa indica 1 

Greater Indian hill mynah Oracula religiosa intermedia 2 



156 ANNUAL REPORT SAHTHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

Family and common name Scientific name Number 

Nectariniidae : 

Scarlet-chested sunbird Chalcomitra rubescens 1 

Eastern double-collared sunbird Cinnyris mediocris 2 

Variable sunbird Cinnyris venustus 2 

Scarlet-tufted malachite sunbird Nectarinia johnstoni 2 

Beautiful sunbird Nectarinia pulchella 1 

Tecasse sunbird Nectarinia tacazze 1 

Zosteropidae : 

White-eye Zosterops palpebrosa 8 

Coerebidae : 

Black-headed sugarbird Chlorophanes spiza 2 

Purple sugarbird Cyanerpes coerulea 4 

Blue or yellow-winged sugarbird Cyanerpes cyaneus 4 

Bananaquit Coereha flaveola 1 

Parulidae : 

Ovenbird Seiurus aurocapillus 1 

Ploceidae : 

Red-naped widowbird CoUuspasser laticauda 10 

Giant whydah Diatropura procne 1 

Baya weaver Ploceus baya 3 

Vitelline masked weaver Ploceus vitellinus 3 

Mahali weaver Ploceipasser mahali 1 

Red bishop weaver Euplectes orix 1 

Yellow-crowned bishop weaver Euplectes afra 2 

V7hite-headed nun Lonchura maja 4 

Bengalese finch Lonchura sp 6 

Cut-throat weaver finch Amadina fasciata 1 

Lavender finch Estrilda coerulescens 2 

Strawberry finch Estrilda amandava 5 

Red-eared waxbill Estrilda astrild 1 

Common waxbill Estrilda troglodytes 1 

Zebra finch Poephila castanotis 13 

Gouldian finch Poephila gouldiae 1 

Java finch Padda oryzivora 8 

Icteridae : 

Yellow-headed marshbird Xanthocephalus wanthocephalus- 1 

Rice grackle Psomocolax oryzivora 1 

Purple grackle Quiscalus quiscula 12 

Swainson's grackle Holoquiscalus lugubris 1 

Boat-tailed grackle Megaquiscalus major 2 

Glossy cowbird Molothrus bonariensis 8 

Brown-headed cowbird Molothrus ater 2 

Bay cowbird Molothrus badius 2 

Colombian red-eyed cowbird Tangavius armenti 1 

Red-winged blackbird Agelaius phoeniceus 4 

Red-breasted marshbird Leistes militaris 10 

Troupial Icterus icterus 2 

Crested oropendola Xanthornus decumanus 1 

Thraupidae : 

Blue tanager Thraupis cana 1 

White-edged tanager Thraupis leucoptera 2 

Violet tanager Euphonia violaoea . 2 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 



157 



Family and common name Scientific name Number 

Thraupidae — Continued 

Black-and-white tanager Cissopis leveriana 1 

Yellow-rumped tanager Ramphocclus icteronotus 1 

Passerini's tanager Ramphocelus passerinii 1 

Red tanager Piranga rubra 1 

Fringillidae : 

Rice grosbeak Oryzoiorus crassirostris 1 

Evening grosbeak Hesperiphona vespertina 6 

Brazilian cardinal Paroaria cucullata 1 

Black-throated cardinal Paroaria gularis 7 

Black-eared cardinal Paroaria gularis nigra 2 

Cardinal Richmondena cardinalis 3 

European linnet CarOuelis cannabina 6 

European goldfinch Carduelis carduelis 3 

European goldfinch X canary, hybrid- Carduelis carduelis X Serinus 

canarius 1 

Canary Serinus canarius 2 

Green finch Cliloris chloris 2 

Lesser yellow finch Siealis luteola 2 

Saffron finch Siealis flaveola 6 

White-lined finch Spcrmophila lineola 5 

European bullfinch Pyrrhula pyrrhula 2 

Melodious grassquit Tiaris canora 1 

Chafl5nch Fringilla coelehs 1 

Slate-colored junco Junco hyemalis 1 

Buff-throated saltator Saltator maximus 1 

Tawny-bellied seedeater Sporophila minuta 7 

Song sparrow Melospiea melodia 1 

Dickcissel Spiza americana 5 

White-throated sparrow Zonotrichia albicoUis 1 

White-crowned sparrow Zonotrichia leucophrys 2 

Yellowhammer Emberisa citrinella 1 

European bunting Embcriza calandra 2 

Jacarini finch Volatinia jacarini 3 

Tropical seed finch Oryzoborus torridus 3 

REPTILES 



LORICATA 

Alligatoridae : 

Caiman Caiman sclerops 

Black caiman Melanosuchus niger 

American alligator Alligator mississipiensia. 

Chinese alligator Alligator sinensis 

Crocodilidae : 

Broad-nosed crocodile Osteolaemus tetraspis 

African crocodile Crocodylus niloticus 

Narrow-nosed crocodile Crocodylus cataphractus. 

Salt-water crocodile Crocodylus 

American crocodile Crocodylus 

Gavialidae : 
Indian gavlal Qavialia gangeticus. 



porosus. 
aeutus^. 



158 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

CHELONIA 

Family and common name Scientiflo name Number 

Chelydridae : 

Snapping turtle Chelydra serpentina Many 

Alligator snapping turtle Macrochelys tcmminckii 1 

Kinosternidae : 

Musk turtle Stemotherus odoratus 8 

Mud turtle Einostemon subrubrum 7 

South American mud turtle Kinosternum cruentatum 2 

Emydidae : 

Box turtle Terrapenc Carolina Many 

Three-toed box turtle Terrapene c. triunguis 2 

Ornate box turtle Terrapene ornata 1 

Florida box turtle Terrapene batiri ] 

Kura kura box turtle Cuora amboinensis 2 

Diamondback turtle Malaclemys terrapin 3 

Map turtle Oraptemys geographica 2 

False map turtle Oraptemys pseudogeographica 2 

Barbour's map turtle Oraptemys barbouri 4 

Painted turtle Chrysemys picta Many 

Western painted turtle Chrysemys picta belli 15 

Cumberland turtle Pseudemys scripta troostii 23 

South American red-lined turtle Pseudemys scripta callirostris 2 

Yellow-bellied turtle Pseudemys scripta scripta 15 

Red-bellied turtle Pseudemys rubriventris 10 

Red-eared turtle Pseudemys scripta elegans 12 

Southern water turtle Pseudemys floridana 17 

Florida red-bellied turtle Pseudemys nelsoni 2 

Central American turtle Pseudemys ornata 2 

Cuban water turtle Pseudemys decussata 1 

Chicken turtle Deirochelys reticularia 1 

Spotted turtle Clemmys guttata 4 

Wood turtle Clemmys insculpta 6 

Iberian pond turtle Clemmys leprosa 2 

European pond turtle Emys orbicularis 8 

Blanding's turtle Emys blandingii 2 

Reeve's turtle Chinemys reevesii 4 

Testudinidae : 

Giant Aldabra tortoise Testudo elephantina 2 

Galapagos tortoise Testudo vicina 2 

Duncan Island tortoise Testudo ephippium 2 

South American tortoise Testudo tabulata 1 

Star tortoise Testudo elegans 2 

European tortoise Testudo graeca 1 

Pelomedusidae : 

African water turtle Pelomedusa subrufa 2 

African black mud turtle Pelusios nigricans 1 

Amazon spotted turtle Podocnemis unifilis 2 

Chelydldae : 

South American side-necked turtle Batrachemys nasuta 2 

Australian side-necked turtle Chelodina longicollis 3 

Small side-necked turtle Hydromedusa tectifera 2 

Large side-necked turtle Phrynops hilarii 8 

Krefft's turtle Emydura krefftii 8 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 159 

Farnily and common name Scientific name Number 

Chelydidae — Continued 

Murray turtle Emydura macquarrii 3 

South American gibba turtle Mesoclemmys gibha 2 

Flat-headed turtle Platemys platycephala 3 

Trionychldae : 

Southern soft-shelled turtle Trionyx ferox 5 

African soft-shelled turtle Trionyx triunguis 2 

SAURIA 

Gekkonidae : 

Giant gecko Gekko atentor 1 

Nelson's gecko Aristelliger nelsoni 1 

Banded gecko Coleonyx variegatus — 1 

Iguanldae : 

Common iguana Iguana iguana 3 

Carolina anole Anolia car-olinensis Many 

Nelson's anole Anolis nelsoni 1 

Giant anole Anolis equestris 1 

Texas horned lizard Phrytwsoma cornutum 1 

Crested lizard Leiocephalus varius 3 

Blue scaly lizard Sceloporus cyanogenys 1 

Fence lizard Sceloporus undulatus 2 

Spiny-tailed iguana Ctenosaura acanthura 1 

Scincidae : 

Mourning skink Egernia luctuosa 2 

White's skink Egernia whitei 4 

Greater five-lined skink Eumeces fasciatus 1 

Broad-headed skink Eumeces laticeps 1 

Great plains skink Eumeces obsoletus 1 

Sand skink Schicus offlcinalis 4 

Stump-tailed skink Tiliqua rugosa— 1 

Malayan skink Mahuya muUifasciata 2 

Gerrhosauridae : 

Plated lizard Gerrlwsaurus major 1 

Teiidae : 

Black tegu Tupinambis nigropunctatus 1 

Varanidae : 

Dumeril's monitor Varanus dumerili 1 

Indian monitor Varanus fiavescens 1 

Malayan monitor Varanus salvator 1 

Indian monitor Varanus bengalensis 1 

Pakistan monitor Varanus griseus 2 

Australian lace monitor Varanus varius 3 

Helodermatidae : 

Mexican beaded lizard Heloderma horridum 1 

Beaded lizard (black phase) Heloderma horridum 1 

Gila monster Heloderma suspectum 1 

Anguidae : 

Glass lizard Ophisaurus ventralia 3 

SERPEN TES 

Boidae : 

Anaconda Eunectes murinus 1 

Tree boa Boa enydris enydris 1 

Cook's tree boa Boa enydris cooki 6 



160 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

Family and common name Scientific name Numier 

Boidae — Continued 

Boa constrictor Constrictor constrictor 1 

Emperor boa Constrictor imperator 1 

Cuban ground boa Tropidophis melanura 1 

Rainbow boa Eplcratcs cenchria 4 

Cuban tree boa Eplcrates angulifer 3 

Ball python Python regiiis 1 

Indian rock python Python moluras 2 

Regal python Python rcticulatns 1 

Colubridae : 

Water snake Natrix sipedon 2 

European grass snake Ufatrlx natrix 1 

Diamond-backed water snake Natrix rhomMfcra 1 

Red-bellied water snake Natrix erythrogaster 1 

Island water snake Natrix insularum 1 

Mangrove snake Natrix compressicauda 1 

Florida green water snake Natrix cyclopion fioridana 1 

Queen snake Natrix septemvitta 2 

Garter snake Thamnophis sirtalis sirtalis 3 

Ribbon snake Thamnophis sauritus 6 

Ring-necked snake Diadophis punctatus edwardsii- 1 

Black racer Coluber constrictor constrictor 5 

Red racer MasticopMs flagellum 1 

Asiatic rat snake Elaphe taeniura 1 

Lesser Indian rat snake Elaphe carinata 1 

Pilot black snake Elaphe oisoleta ohsoleta 3 

Pilot black snake (albino) . Elaphe obsoleta ohsoleta 1 

Fox snake Elaphe vulpina 2 

Corn snake Elaphe ohsoleta guttata 2 

Lindheimer's rat snake Elaphe ohsoleta lindheimeri 1 

Chicken snake Elaphe quadrivittata 1 

Aesculapian snake Elaphe longissima 1 

King snake Lampropeltis getulns getulus 1 

Speckled king snake Lampropeltis getulns holbrooki 3 

California king snake Lampropeltis getulus californiac- 2 

Sonoran king snake Lampropeltis getulus splendida 1 

Scarlet king snake Lampropeltis triangulum doliata^ 1 

Milk snake Lampropeltis triangulum 1 

Tropical king snake Lampropeltis polysonus 1 

Mole snake Latnpropeltis rhombomculata 1 

Cat-eye snake Leptodeira annulata 1 

Eastern worm snake Carphophis amoenus 1 

DeKay's snake Storerla deJcayi 1 

Green whip snake Dryophis prasinus 1 

File snake Simocephalus capensis 1 

Wolf snake Lycodon flavomaculatus 2 

Green-headed tree snake Leptophis mexicanus 1 

Elapidae : 

Indian cobra Naja naja 2 

Taiwan cobra Naja naja atra 7 

Egyptian cobra Naja haje 1 

Krait Bungarus multicinctus 1 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 161 

Family a7id common name Scientific name Number 

Acrochordidae : 

Elephant trunk snake Acrochordus javanicus 1 

Crotalidae : 

Southern copperhead Ancistrodon contortriw contor- 

trix 1 

Northern copperhead Ancistrodon controtrix moJceson^ 2 

Western broad-banded copperhead— Ancistrodon contortrix laticinc- 

tus 1 

Water moccasin, or cottonmouth Ancistrodon piscivorus 3 

Mamushi Ancistrodon halys blomhoffi 1 

Asian snorkel viper Ancistrodon acutus 2 

Green palm viper Trimeresurus gramineus 2 

Stejneger's palm viper Trimeresurus stejnegeri 1 

Wagler's pit viper^ Trimeresurus wagJeri 1 

Mamushi, or Asiatic viper Trimeresurus elegans 1 

Habu, or Asiatic viper Trimeresurus flavoviridis 1 

Southern Pacific rattlesnake Crotalus viridis helleri 1 

Prairie rattlesnake Crotalus viridis viridis 1 

Western diamondback rattlesnake—- Crotalus atrox 24 

Timber rattlesnake Crotalus horridus 2 

AMPHIBIANS 

CAUDATA 

Amphiumidae : 

Congo eel Amphimna means 1 

Cryptobranchidae : 

Hellbender Cryptohranchus alleganiensis — 2 

Ambystomidae : 

Spotted salamander Ambystoma maculatum 2 

Jefferson's salamander Ambystoma jeffersonianum 1 

Salamandridae : 

Red-bellied newt Cynops pyrrhogaster 10 

Red-spotted newt Diemictyltis viridesccns 19 

SALIENTIA 

Buf onidae : 

American toad Bufo aniericanus 1 

Giant toad Bufo marinus 5 

Cuban toad Bufo peltocephalus 6 

Oak toad Bufo queroicus 2 

Pelobatidae : 

Spadefoot toad Scaphiopus holbrooki 14 

Pipidae : 

Surinam toad Pipa pipa 14 

African clawed frog Xenopus laevis 5 

Leptodactylidae : 

Colombian horned frog Ceratophrys calcarata 2 

Argentine horned frog Ceratophrys ornata 1 

Hylidae : 

Barking tree frog Hyla versicolor 2 

Green tree frog Hyla cinerea 4 

Cuban tree frog Hyla septentrionalis 4 

Squirrel tree frog Hyla squirella 1 

Gray tree frog Hyla versicolor 2 



162 ANlSrUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

Family and common name Scientific name Number 

Microhylidae : 

Great Plains narrow-mouthed toad— Microhyla olivacea 1 

Ranidae : 

African bull frog Rana adspersa 4 

American bull frog Rana catesbeiana 1 

Green frog Rana clamitans melanota 5 

Leopard frog Rana pipiens Many 

ARTHROPODS 

DECAPODA 

Cenobltidae : 
Land hermit crab OoenoMta clypeatus Many 

ARANEIDA 

Theridiidae : 
Black-widow spider Latrodectus mactans 1 

ORTHOPTERA 

Blattidae : 

Tropical giant cockroach Bla'berus giganteua Many 

MOLLUSKS 

PULMONATA 

Planorbidae : 
Pond snail Helisoma trivolvis Many 

FISHES 

NEOCERATODONTOIDEI 

Protopterldae : 

African lungfish Protopterus annectens 2 

OSTARIOPHYSOroEl 

Characidae : 

Piranha Serratalmus niger 1 

Metynnis Metynnis rooseveltii 1 

Black tetra Oynmocorymius ternetzi 3 

Cyprinidae : 

Zebra fish Brachydanio rerio 3 

Clown barb Barbus everetti 1 

Tiger barb Puntius partipentazona 2 

White Cloud Mountain fish Tanichthys albonubes 15 

Electrophoridae : 

Electric eel Electrophorus electricus 1 

CYRINODONTOIDEl 

Poecillidae : 

Flag-tailed guppy LebiMes reticulatus 10 

Guppy Lebistes reticulatus 15 

Black mollie Mollienesia latipinna 2 

Platy, or moonfish Xiphophoru9 maculatus , — ^^ I 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 163 

PERCOMORPHOIDEI 
Family and common name Scientific name Number 

Anabantidae : 

Climbing perch Anabas testudineus 3 

Cichlidae : 

Peacock oichlid Astronotus ocellatus 1 

Egyptian moutlibreeder Haplochromis multicolor 3 

Angelfish Pelmatochromis guentheri 2 

African mouthbreeder Pterophyllum eimekel 2 

Jack Dempsey fish Cichlasoma Mocellatum 15 

Jewelflsh Hemicliromis bimaculatus 1 

Lorcariidae : 

South American catfish Plecostotntis plecostotnus 2 

FINANCES 

Funds for the operation of the National Zoological Park are appro- 
priated annually under the District of Columbia Appropriation Act. 
Tlie operation and maintenance appropriation for the fiscal year 1961 
totaled $1,304,000, which was $138,800 more than for the fiscal year 
1960. The increase consisted of $22,000 to cover salary increases for 
General Schedule employees in accordance with Public Law 86-568 ; 
$16,000 to cover salary increases for police employees in accordance 
with Public Law 86-379 ; $25,800 to cover salary increases for Wage 
Board employees; $12,900 for within-grade salary advancements for 
both General Schedule and Wage Board employees; $8,500 for Fed- 
eral Employees Health Benefits; $46,100 to establish 11 new j^ositions; 
$7,500 for the purchase of new equipment. 

Of the total appropriation, 83.5 percent ($1,089,002) was used for 
salaries and related personnel costs and 16.5 percent ($214,998) for 
the maintenance and operation of the Zoo. Included in the latter 
figure were $74,000 for animal food; $18,000 for fuel for heating; 
$34,257 for materials for building construction and repairs; $9,725 
for the purchase of animals; $9,600 for electricity; $5,400 for tele- 
phone, postal, and telegraph services; and $5,000 for veterinarian 
equipment and supplies. The balance of $35,675 in operational funds 
was expended for other items, including freight, sundry supplies, 
imiforms, gasoline, road repairs, equipment rej)lacement, and new 
equipment. 

In addition to the regular appropriation, $240,000 for safety im- 
provements was appropriated for capital outlay. This was to carry 
out the second phase of the safety program. 

PERSONNEL 

On October 10, 1960, Dr. William M. Mann, Director of the Na- 
tional Zoological Park from 1925 mitil 1956, died at the age of 74. 
During his regime he had built up the collection of animals from 
about 1,600 to more than 3,000 specimens ; he had supervised the build- 



164 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

ing of modern quarters for birds, reptiles, large mammals, and small 
mammals, as well as of machine shops, the Zoo restaurant, and police 
headquarters. He led numerous expeditions to South America, Indo- 
nesia, and Africa to collect animals for the Zoo. It was during his 
tenure of office that the National Zoological Park grew from a second- 
rate Zoo to one of world-wide importance. 

Kussell Morrison, supervisory keeper, came to the Zoo March 1, 
1931, and was assigned to the reptile house. He died of a heart attack 
while on duty August 14, 1960. 

Malcolm Davis, who first came to the Zoo on November 16, 1927, 
retired on July 1, 1960, to accept a research position in private in- 
dustry. He had for many years been in charge of the bird house 
and was associate head keeper at the time of his retirement. He had 
been on many expeditions to collect animals, including three voyages 
to Antarctica to bring back penguins. 

Other retirements were those of Bertelle Ford, keeper, employed 
at the Zoo from December 5, 1942, to October 31, 1960; Leonard Ford, 
supervisory animal keeper, December 29, 1950, to June 15, 1961 ; Wil- 
liam G. Modena, December 16, 1936, to July 31, 1960, assistant super- 
intendent of maintenance and construction ; Charles Dean, operating 
engineer, August 16, 1927, to December 31, 1960; and Ada McNeil, 
custodial laborer, from November 10, 1952, to July 31, 1960. 

Reily Straw, a welder, was promoted to take Mr. Modena's place 
as assistant superintendent of maintenance and construction. Donald 
Swartzback of the grounds department was made supervisor of the 
new tree section. 

A night-keeper program was initiated this year to insure care of 
the animals 24 hours a day. This is essential particularly in the case 
of baby animals that are being hand fed or sick animals that need 
medication during the night. 

In fiscal year 1961 there were 197 authorized positions at the Zoo, 
divided as follows: Administrative office, 16; animal department, 76, 
an increase of 6 over the previous year (2 night keepers, 2 commissary 
stewards, 2 laborers) ; mechanical department, 61 ; police department, 
33, an increase of 3; and grounds department, 11, an increase of 2. 

Mrs. Fruza C. Kussrow was appointed budget analyst on July 18, 
1960, and Frank Maloney came in as engineer on April 16, 1961. 

FRIENDS OF THE NATIONAL ZOO 

"Friends of the National Zoo," a group of civic-minded District 
residents, were active agam this year. On December 16, 1960, John 
Perry, president of the organization, presented to the Smithsonian 
Institution a "master plan" which had been made by Meade Palmer 
and Morris Trotter, landscape architects. This substitutes a pedes- 
trian "greenway" for the dangerous automobile road that now goes 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 165 

through the center of the Zoo and suggests locations for new buildmgs 
such as a new monkey house, monkey island, lion house, hoofed-stock 
complex, administration building, and auditorium. Dr. Carmichael 
presented the master plan to the Board of Regents at their annual 
meeting in January 1961. 

The "Friends'' were responsible for a brass plaque wliich was 
placed at the base of the flag that flies at the Connecticut Avenue 
entrance to the Zoo. Tliis flagpole was dedicated in September 1959, 
"as an expression of warm affection for Dr. William M. jMann, former 
Director of the Zoo," and on the day of Dr. Mann's funeral the flag 
was flown at half-staff. 

June 5, 1961, was designated as Zoo Night for the "Friends." About 
200 of them gathered at the Police Station at 8 p.m. and were taken 
on a conducted tour. 

INFORMATION AND EDUCATION 

The Zoo continues to handle a large correspondence with persons 
all over the world and from every part of this country, who write to 
the Zoo, as a national institution, for information regarding animals. 
Telephone calls come in constantly asking for identification of ani- 
mals, proper diets, or treatment of disease. Visitors to the office as 
well as to the animal exhibits are constantly seeking information. 

On his trip to India for the white tiger, the Director had an oppor- 
tunity to visit zoos in Hawaii, Japan, the Philippines, Malaya, and 
Thailand, as well as India, and to photograph various types of new 
construction and design. He has lectured on these Oriental zoos to 
civic and scientific groups. His article on "Enchantress, the "Wliite 
Tiger" was published in the National Geographic Magazine for May 
1961. 

J. Lear Grimmer, Associate Director, continued his fieldwork in 
British Guiana and spent 7 weeks there studying the life history of 
the hoatzin. For 2 weeks he was joined by William Widman, senior 
keeper. Mr. Grimmer left again for British Guiana in June 1961, 
accompanied by Keeper Charles Hall. 

The Director and Travis E. Fauntleroy, Jr., assistant to the Di- 
rector, attended the annual convention of the American Association 
of Zoological Parks and Aquarimns at I^ong Beach, Calif., in Sep- 
tember 1960. Mr. Fauntleroy stopped at Brookfield (Chicago), San 
Francisco, San Diego, and San Antonio to study management meth- 
ods in these well-known zoos. The Director visited Vancouver, B.C., 
Seattle, Wash., Portland, Oreg., San Francisco, and San Diego, study- 
ing recent construction at these zoos. In February, the Director and 
Dr. James F. Wright attended the Midwinter Conference of Midwest 
Zoo Directors in St. Louis, where the Director presented a paper on 
Oriental Zoos and Dr. Wright spoke on the immobilization of animals. 



166 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

In Washington, the Director spoke on three radio programs and 
appeared on television, showing a number of Zoo animals. 

Senior Keeper William F. Widman and Supervisory Keeper 
Holmes M. Vorous have written an article on the hatching of kooka- 
burras in the Zoo, which will be published in England by Avicultural 
Magazine in the autumn of 1961. 

Senior Keeper Mario DePrato and Holmes M. Vorous accompanied 
a shipment of live reptiles to the Detroit Zoo in August 1960, arriving 
there in time for the opening of the new reptile house. Wiile in the 
Midwest they visited zoos in Toledo, Cleveland, and Pittsburgh, 
studying methods of exhibiting and handling animals. 

Ordinarily the Zoo does not conduct guided tours of the Park, but 
exceptions were made for a group of children from the Columbia 
Lighthouse for the Blind and for four other groups of handicapped 
children. 

On July 14, 1960, 1,523 foreign exchange students visited the Zoo ; 
the schoolboy patrol, consisting of 9,740 students from all parts of the 
country, came to the Park on May 13, 1961 ; and a group of African 
students toured the Park on June 21, 1961. 

While the Zoo does not conduct a regular research program as 
such, effort is made to study the animals and improve their health, 
housing, and diet in every way possible. 

REPORT OF THE VETERINARIAN 

The veterinarian. Dr. James F. Wright, reports that the major 
veterinary problems at the National Zoological Park for this year, as 
in past years, stem from the lack of facilities and help to investigate 
disease in the collection, absence of suitable hospitalization and 
quarantine, and the need for a full-time arrangement for orphan- 
animal care. 

The central nervous system disease of monkeys mentioned in last 
year's report is still under investigation by the Armed Forces Institute 
of Pathology. Necropsies have been performed on seven monkeys 
which during life had shown the typical signs of acute amaurotic 
epilepsy as described by Langdon and Cadwallader in 1915 and again 
by Van Bogaert and Scherer in 1935. These cases include two im- 
mature Barbary apes (died January 5, 1960, and April 8, 1961), an 
immature pig-tailed macaque (July 20, 1959), an immature hybrid 
(Philippine x Javan) macaque (January 6, 1960), an immature drill 
(April 9, 1960), an immature mandrill (June 24, 1960), and an im- 
mature hybrid gibbon {Hylobates lar x H. sp.) which was raised in a 
keeper's home from the day of birth and was thus rather free of the 
Park environment. Three monkeys in the collection, a grajj-'Cheeked 
mangabey, a black-crested mangabey, and a mandrill, all female 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 167 

adults, have the typical seizures of this malady periodically but act 
normal in every way except during the attacks. The black-crested 
mangabey is, as nearly as can be determined, blind without obvious 
gross defect in either eye. For almost a year, these three animals 
have received daily doses of diphenylhydantoin sodium, which ap- 
parently has suppressed the occurrence and severity of the seizures to 
a minor degree. Ingestion of toxic quantities of lead has always been 
considered a strong possibility in causing this condition, but it has 
been determined that no lead-base paints have been used in the animal 
areas, and an analysis of the water supply at the monkey house dis- 
closed less than acceptable minimums of this element. 

A maned wolf {Chrysocyon jubatus), received from a dealer in 
South America, died after a short illness in February 1961. The only 
antemortem signs were inappetence and inanition leading to a comatose 
state on the day before death. Antibiotics, canine antidistemper 
serum, and intravenous therapy were without obsei-vable effect. A 
necropsy performed immediately after death by the Pathology In- 
stitute disclosed the following conditions : heartworm {D irofllaria sp.) , 
lungworm {Filaroides osleri), and hookworm infestations; presence 
of the giant kidney worm {Dioctophyma renale) ; parasitic nodules of 
Spirocerca lupi in the aorta and other great vessels; large ulcerated 
areas in the stomach; and negri bodies of rabies in microscopic 
preparations of brain tissue. Just prior to death blood samples were 
taken from this animal for blood-picture study and serology. The 
interesting finding of these studies was the presence of serum anti- 
bodies to the disease caused by Leptospira canicola. The serum titre 
was a very high 1 :6400. 

A female maned wolf, which was obtained from the same source in 
January 1960, died in August 1960, with the same antemortem signs. 
The necropsy report describes only an infestation with the lungworm 
Filaroides osleri. The central nervous system of this individual was 
not examined because the carcass was requested for the U.S. National 
Museum. 

Juvenile osteoporosis occurred in a pair of bobcats and a mountain 
lion, all being. raised with the parents and all showing similar signs 
of onset-lameness in one hind limb progressing to severe lameness and 
ultimately posterior paralysis. Radiographs taken of one of the bob- 
cats showed a fracture of the femur, a folding fracture of the pelvis, 
and collapse of the lumbar vertebrae with resultant compression of 
the spinal cord. Necropsy reports by Dr. Wayne Riser established the 
condition as juvenile osteoporosis. For future cases he recommended 
the addition of potassium iodide to the ration as well as increased 
calcium and vitamin D (one-half teaspoonful daily of a solution of 50 
mg. KI to 100 cc. of water) . 

625325—62 12 



168 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

In the report for 1960 it was stated that attempts were being made 
to develop a diagnostic test for tuberculosis in wild hoofed animals 
through serum antibodies. Blood samples were obtained from two 
elands and a giraffe suspected of being infected with this disease. 
These samples were checked serologically by investigators of the De- 
partment of Agriculture, whose preliminary report indicated that no 
specific antibodies for the tuberculosis antigen were present in the 
serums of these animals. Since the samples were examined, all three 
animals have died with the necropsy diagnosis of pulmonary tuber- 
culosis. These patliological findings have been supported by reports 
from Dr. Alfred G. Karlson of the Mayo Foundation, who isolated and 
identified the bovine variety of the tuberculosis organism from tissues 
of these animals. 

A lammergeyer, or bearded vulture {Gypaetus harhatiis) , which was 
acquired from a dealer in West Germany in June 1960, developed 
wartlike lesions on both feet after one month in the collection. In 
two more days similar lesions were noticed on the lower lid of the 
right eye. The left eyelid became involved in another three weeks. 
The growths were fleshy in nature with no vesicle formation noted, 
although there did appear to be some secondary infection and dis- 
charge from the sites. Except for an erratic appetite, which may 
have been caused by shipment, it was not apparent that this condition 
had any general debilitating effect on the bird. The largest growth was 
easily removed from the eyelid for pathological examination; the 
smaller "nodules" all dropped off after three or four weeks. As this 
bird was returning to normal, similar lesions were noticed on a king 
penguin. Again the condition occasioned the bird no distress and dis- 
appeared in about one month. While the penguin was recovering, a 
black-footed albatross developed some nodules in and around the beak 
which disappeared in about six weeks. Finally an xldelie penguin 
was found with numerous growths around the beak and eyelids. 
Whereas the aforementioned birds recovered, this penguin died before 
the lesions had disappeared. The pathologists found pathognomonic 
evidence of fowl-pox infection in this penguin and in the tissue sub- 
mitted from the lammergeyer vulture. It is probable that the virus 
was introduced from the vulture brought from overseas by air ship- 
ment. The black-footed albatross and the king penguin are also 
presumed to have been infected with this virus. There has been no 
subsequent appearance of this condition to date. 

Two three-toed sloths {Brady pus tridactylus) were acquired during 
the past year from South America : a male, which lived only four days 
after arriving in poor condition, and a female, which lived from 
September until February 1961 and produced a baby, which lived for 
14 days. Both the adult sloths had severe anemias and bone marrow 
hypoplasia, according to the pathologists' report. 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 169 

A female spotted hyaena died May 12, 1961. No report has come 
in as yet from the AFIP except that the animal had mammary tmnors. 
Both this hyaena and the male, which died in 19G0, were received at 
the Park July 1, 1947. 

The use of the intramuscular, long-acting barbiturate "Capchur- 
barb" was continued, both in the projectile syringe and by hand 
syringe. Among the animals requiring sedation or anesthesia with 
this drug were two American alligators, an eland antelope, a prong- 
horn antelope, zebu cow, American elk, raccoon, bighorn sheep, puma, 
capuchin monkey, Java macaque, lesser panda, and Grevy's zebra. An- 
other anesthetic preparation that was fomid most useful was the 
rectal thiopental sodium (Pentothal- Abbott). This drug is packaged 
in disposable plastic syringes for immediate use with a graduated 
plunger and two separate applicators per syringe. This type of seda- 
tion or anesthesia was used for short procedures and for restraint on 
primates and carnivores. 

Dr. Wright made two trips to a game farm in Florida and one to 
the quarantine station in New Jersey at the request of the Depart- 
ment of Agriculture for the purpose of immobilizing captive wild 
animals with the projectile syringe method. The drug used in these 
immobilizations was succinylcholine chloride, with one exception de- 
scribed below. The list of animals successfully immobilized with 
succinylcholine includes 23 Grant's zebra, 11 Grevy's zebra, 8 Damara 
zebra, 17 eland, 4 greater kudu, 4 beisa oryx, 2 blackbuck, 2 aoudad, 
1 hartebeest, 1 brindled gnu, 3 nilghai, 1 American bison, 3 red deer, 
1 giraffe, 1 spotted hyaena, and 1 white-handed gibbon. In addition 
to these, 5 white-tailed gnus were immobilized with the drug gal- 
lamine triethiodide (Flaxedil-Lederle). On the basis of reports re- 
ceived from investigators in Africa it seemed that this latter drug 
was more satisfactory for immobilizing wildebeest. However, both 
gallamine and succinylcholine have been used successfully in tliis type 
of animal. Complete reports on these immobilizations are in 
preparation. 

Dr. Wright's paper "The Inmiobilization of Captive Wild Animals 
with Succinylcholine II," prepared in collaboration with Dr. Warren 
R. Pistey of the New England Institute for Medical Research, was 
published by the Canadian Journal of Comparative Medicine, vol. 25, 
No. 3, March 1961. 

A demonstration of the use of the projectile syringe was given at 
the University of Maryland for a combined meeting of the Maryland 
State Veterinary Medical Association, the District of Columbia 
Veterinary Medical Association, American Animal Hospital Associa- 
tion, and the District of Columbia Academy of Veterinary Medicine. 

Dr. F. R. Lucas, Livestock Sanitary Laboratory, Centreville, Md., 



170 



ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 



provided clinical laboratory services including microscopic tissue 
reports. 

Identification of parasites from specimens in the collection were 
made by M. B. Chitwood and W. W. Becklund of the Parasite Classi- 
fication and Distribution Investigations, Beltsville Parasitological 
Laboratory, U.S. Department of Agriculture. 

Necropsies of major and important specimens were performed by 
the pathologists of the Armed Forces Institute of Pathology, Walter 
Reed Army Medical Center. Necropsy materials not needed by the 
Institute were offered to Dr. Thomas Peery of the George Washington 
School of Medicine for comparative pathology study. 

Isolations and identifications of suspected tubercular tissues were 
made by Dr. Karlson of the Mayo Foundation. 

Following are the statistics for the mortality rates during the past 
fiscal year and a table of comparison with the past 6 fiscal years: 



Mortality, fiscal year 1961 

Death 

Mammals 102 

Birds... 163 

Reptiles 132 

397 



Attri- 




tion* 


1956 


32 


1957 


17 


1958 


71 


1959 




1960 


120 


1961 



Total mortality, past 6 fiscal years 



618 
549 
550 
472 
532 
517 



•Attrition Is the term used for those losses due mainly to the trauma of shipment and handling after ac- 
cession at the Zoo, or before an animal can adapt to cage habitation within the collection. 

The old pair of Nile hippopotamuses, Pinky and Bongo, were "re- 
tired" from the Zoo in the summer of 1959 and placed on deposit at a 
private zoo in Virginia to make room for a younger pair. The male, 
Bongo, who had come to the Zoo on April 7, 1914, died on December 4, 
1959, after 45 years 7 months 27 days in captivity. The female, who 
was 11 years old when she was obtained on April 25, 1939, died on 
December 31, 1960. 

Other animals that had been in the collection for a relatively long 
time and died this year were : A kiang {Equus onager) received Oc- 
tober 14, 1934, died August 16, 1960, after 25 years 10 months 2 days; 
South American lungfish {Lepidosiren paradoxa), received May 6, 
1932, died January 18, 1961, after 28 years 8 months and 12 days. An 
Indian fresh- water turtle {Batagur haska) was a very old specimen 
when it arrived on September 17, 1947. It died May 19, 1961, after 
13 years 8 months 2 days. It was the only one in captivity in the 
United States and probably the oldest specimen of its kind in any zoo. 

A homed toad, Ceratophrys omata^ collected by Frances Shippen 
on the National Zoological Park Expedition to Argentina (received 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 171 

in the Zoo June 27, 1939) is still living. A salt-water crocodile 
{Crocodyhis porosus), purchased July 12, 1932, when about 8 years 
old, is still living and is believed to be the largest in captivity. 

COOPERATION 

At all times special efforts are made to maintain friendly contacts 
with other Federal and State agencies, private concerns and indi- 
viduals, and scientific workers for mutual assistance. As a result, the 
Zoo receives much help and advice and many valuable animals, and 
in turn it furnishes information and, whenever possible, animals it 
does not need. 

In cooperation with the State Department and the White House, 
the National Zoological Park arranged for the fulfillment of Presi- 
dent Eisenhower's promise to General DeGaulle to send him three 
pronghom antelopes for the Paris Zoo. The antelopes selected had 
been in the collection here and were thus accustomed to captivity. 
They had originally come from the State Fish and Game Department 
of Montana, which will send replacements to the National Zoological 
Park. The pronghorns, the only ones in any European zoo, were 
flown from Andrews Air Force Base on August 2, 1960, on an Air 
Force C-130 cargo plane. Lt. Col. Perry Penn, 62d Squadron com- 
mander, and Capt. Donald Gould, aircraft commander, were in 
charge, and the Director of the Zoo accompanied the shipment. All 
arrangements were made at the request of President Eisenhower. In 
addition, the plane carried two Virginia deer fawns and an assortment 
of small mammals, birds, and reptiles. The plane stopped at Prest- 
wick, Scotland, and unloaded there two bear cubs, birds, and alli- 
gators for the zoos in Edinburgh and Bristol, before continuing on to 
Orly Field in France. 

Through the cooperation of the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service 
Senior Keeper William Widman made a number of collecting trips on 
Chesapeake Bay to secure w^aterfowl for the Zoo. 

Special acknowledgment is due George Kirk and John Pulaski, in 
the office of the U.S. Dispatch Agent in New York City, and Stephen 
E. Lato, Dispatch Agent in San Francisco, who are frequently called 
upon to clear shipments of animals coming from abroad, often at 
great personal inconvenience. The animals have been forwarded to 
Washington without the loss of a single individual. 

Wlien it is necessary to quarantine animals coming into this country, 
they are taken to the U.S. Department of Agriculture's station in 
Clifton, N.J. During the past year Dr. B. C. Swindell and Andy 
Goodel, two of the officials stationed there, have been most cooperative 



172 



ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 



in keeping the National Zoological Park informed as to the well- 
being of animals and birds being held there for quarantine. 

Animals that die in the Zoo are offered to the United States Na- 
tional Museum. If the Museum does not need them, they are sent 
on request to reasearch workers in other institutions. 

The Zoo cooperated with the National Capital Parks and lent small 
animals to Park naturalists and to the Nature Center in Rock Creek 
Park for demonstration. 

Gifts of plants were received from Mount Vernon, the Botanical 
Gardens, National Bureau of Standards, District of Columbia Water- 
works, St. Elizabeth's Hospital, the Naval Observatory, and the 
Soldiers' Home. A very welcome gift was a 15-by-40-foot greenhouse, 
from the Bureau of Standards, to supply tropical plants for forage 
and for planting in indoor cages. 

VISITORS 

In cooperation with Albert Mindlin and Samuel Rosenthal, analyti- 
cal statisticians of the Management Office of the District of Columbia, 
a new method of estimating the visitor attendance is being developed 
for greater statistical reliability. 



Number of bus groups visiting the Zoo in fiscal year 1961 



Locality 



Alabama 

Arizona 

Arkansas 

California 

Connecticut 

Delaware 

District of Columbia 

Florida 

Georgia 

Illinois 

Indiana 

Iowa 

Kansas 

Kentucky 

Louisiana 

Maine 

Maryland 

Massachusetts 

Michigan 

Minnesota 



Number 
of groups 



30 
1 
2 
1 
7 

13 
177 

33 
124 
6 
5 
5 
2 

16 

2 

2 

954 

11 
9 
6 



Number 
in groups 



1,213 

28 

70 

40 

259 

498 

7,021 

1, 166 

4,995 

241 

200 

188 

60 

618 

90 

441 

38, 159 

64 

303 

213 



Locality 



Mississippi 

Montana 

New Hampshire 

New Jersey 

New Mexico 

New York 

North Carolina. 

Ohio 

Pennsylvania 

Rhode Island. . 
South Carolina- 
Tennessee 

Texas 

Vermont 

Virginia 

West Virginia.- 
Wisconsin 

Total ... 



Number 
of groups 



14 

1 

1 

12 

1 

269 

218 

32 

294 

16 

52 

52 

2 

1 

735 

66 

5 



3, 171 



Number 
in groups 



541 

25 

40 

963 

26 

10, 753 

8,652 

1,241 

11,775 

604 

2,076 

2,022 

92 

35 

29, 449 

2,352 

182 



118,043 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 

Groups from foreign countries 



173 





Number 
of groups 


Number 
in groups 




Number 
of groups 


Number 
in groups 




3 

1 

40 

2 


150 

30 

1,523 

80 


Haiti 


1 

2 


58 


Ecuador 


Japan . 


70 


Exchange students... 
Finland 


Total 




51 


1,966 







About 2 p.m. each day the cars then parked in the Zoo are counted 
and listed according to the State, Territory, or country from which 
they come. This is, of course, not a census of the cars coming to the 
Zoo but is valuable in showing the percentage of attendance by States 
of people in private automobiles. Many District of Columbia, Mary- 
land, and Virginia cars come to the Zoo to bring guests from other 
States. The tabulation for the fiscal year 1961 is as follows: 



Percentage 

Maryland 32. 3 

Virginia 23.2 

District of Columbia 21.1 

Penn.sylvania 3.9 

New York 2.3 

North Carolina 1.9 

Ohio 1. 4 

New Jersey 1.3 

West Virginia 1.2 

Florida 1. 1 

Massachusetts .9 



Percentage 
California 0. 7 

Connecticut 

South Carolina 

Michigan 

Illinois 



.7 

.6 

.6 

.5 

Georgia .4 



Delaware 

Indiana 

Tennessee 
Texas — 



.4 
.4 
.4 
.4 



The remaining 4.3 percent came from other States, Azores, Bahamas, 
British Columbia, Canada, Canal Zone, Cuba, England, Finland, 
France, Germany, Guatemala, Japan, INIexico, Newfoundland, Norway, 
Okinawa, Philippines, Switzerland, and the Virgin Islands. 

On the days of even small attendance there are cars parked in the 
Zoo from at least 15 States, Territories, the District of Columbia, 
and foreign countries. On average days there are cars from about 
22 States, Territories, the District of Columbia, and foreign countries ; 
and during the periods of greatest attendance the cars represent no 
less than 34 different States, Territories, and countries. Parking 
spaces in the Zoo now accommodate 1,079 cars when the bus parking 
place is utilized and 969 cars when it is not used. 

POLICE DEPARTMENT 

The practice of using men for police duty on a temporary basis 
during the busy season continues to prove a highly satisfactory ar- 



174 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

rangement, releasing the regular officers for special details and assign- 
ments, as well as patrol duty. 

Refresher courses in first-aid training were given by Sgt. A. L. 
Canter, Pvt. C. S. Grubbs, and Keeper Lester Ratliff. 

Sgt. A. L. Canter, Pvts. G. H. Adams, M. J. Devlin, Jr., and 
A. S. Kadlubowski attended an extensive course on the handling of 
juveniles administered by the Youth Aid Division of the District of 
Columbia Metropolitan Police Department. 

The police force conducted 1,647 investigations of traffic violations, 
137 investigations of a general nature, picked up 42 truant children 
and took appropriate action and returned 269 lost children to their 
parents or groups. The First Aid Station handled 1,575 cases, mostly 
for minor injuries. Visitors who stopped in the police headquarters 
for information numbered 8,202. Eyeglasses and sunglasses found in 
the Park and unclaimed were turned over to the Society for the Pre- 
vention of Blindness, and unclaimed articles of clotliing, etc., were 
given to the Goodwill Industries. 

The Mounted Color Guard, now numbering six officers, continued 
. to participate in local parades. 

SAFETY SUBCOMMITTEE 

Lt. John R. Wolfe is chairman of the National Zoological Park 
Safety Subcommittee, which consists of Dr. James F. Wright, admin- 
istration office; Lt. C. E. Brink, police department; Bert J. Barker, 
animal department; Reily Straw, maintenance and construction; 
Michael Dubik of the groimds department; and Mrs. W. M. Holden 
of the Smithsonian Institution as subcomjnittee secretary. Monthly 
meetings of the Safety Subcommittee were held to discuss safety 
measures and make recommendations to the Director. 

In addition to the safety manual issued to the animal department 
in January 1960, a new safety manual for the maintenance and con- 
struction department was issued in October 1960, and one for the 
grounds department in January 1961. A safety manual for the police 
department is now being printed. 

A survey of all Park buildings was conducted on September 27, 
1960, by Harold McCoy of the Federal Civil Defense Organization, 
accompanied by Captain James and Lt. Brink of the Zoo police. This 
was in regard to "Fall Out Space," and the total number of square 
feet of floor space and the number of persons who could be sheltered 
in case of bombing were established. 

Reily Straw represented the Subcommittee at the National Safety 
Conference's amiual convention in Chicago in October 1960. 

Sgt. A. L. Canter and Pvt. G. H. Adams attended the General 
Services Administration "Driver Training School" and are now quali- 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 176 

fied to test Park employees and other Smithsonian employees for 
issuance of Government drivers' permits. 

Sergeant Canter and Private Adams attended the Federal Safety 
Council's meeting on the use of safety belts in Government vehicles 
and gave a report to the subcommittee. 

Five fire extinguishers were added to fill the requirements of the 
District of Columbia Fire Marshall. Directional signs to the extin- 
guishers have been painted and installed. First-aid boxes have been 
placed in all Park buildings. Exit signs have been installed in all 
buildings frequented by the public. A shifting conveyor was made 
in the mechanical shop for use in moving large animals. Red flags 
and danger signs have been purchased for use on moving vehicles 
and when work is being done on trees. Public pay telephones have 
been relocated to aid the public and relieve inside communications, 
and 14 new telephones and extensions were added to the Park tele- 
phone system to improve communications and supply contact in iso- 
lated areas. 

The police pistol range has been improved, the work being done by 
the police in their off-duty time with assistance from the grounds and 
maintenance department. 

An oxygen inhalator was added to the police first-aid room for use 
in case of heart patients, electrical shock, etc. Dr. Wright instructed 
the police in its use and operation. 

BUILDINGS AND GROUNDS 

Much of the work accomplished during the past fiscal year was 
done to insure the safety of visitors, employees, and animals. The 
District of Columbia Department of Buildings and Grounds, from 
funds appropriated in FY 60, installed 5,000 feet of standardized 
visitors' safety fencing in front of many outdoor exhibits. They 
also repaired the roofs of the small-mammal building, elephant house, 
and bird house, and the walls and ceiling of the reptile house. The 
ceiling of the reptile house was sprayed with an accoustical com- 
pound, wliich reduces noise in the building by at least 50 percent. 
Because of the bad echo, this house had been extremely noisy when 
filled with people. 

The new gorilla cage, which was made by remodeling the former 
gibbon cage, is now adequate for the apes which came here as babies 
but are now nearly full-grown animals. This cage has electrically 
controlled doors for the shifting cage, heavy %-inch steel bars, 
1/4-inch plate glass on the inside quarters, and protective wiring on 
the outside. The outside enclosure has a roof of corrugated fiberglass 
panels so that the gorillas can enjoy being outdoors, protected from 
rain and excessive heat. 



176 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

Fronts of the other great-ape cages, used by chimpanzees and orang- 
utans, were moved back to allow for more keeper space between the 
bars and the glass. Formerly there was a possibility that a chimpan- 
zee might reach out through the bars and seize a keeper passing by. 
While tliis work was being done, the interior of the cages was 
brightly painted. 

Eemodeling of the alligator and crocodile exhibit in the reptile 
house was done primarily for safety reasons, but resulted in an im- 
provement in the general appearance. The old coping was removed, 
and 14-inch glass fronts installed up to a height of 8 feet. A 42-inch 
guard rail prevents the visitors from tapping on the glass. Inward- 
curving spikes keep the alligators back from the glass. A child with 
a 28-inch eye level is able to see all but 10 inches of the water. 

In the small-mammal house, the old guard rail was topped with an 
angled railing that keeps visitors back and makes it impossible for 
them to reach over and put fingers in the cages. 

An attractive new exhibit during the summer of 1961 was the in- 
stallation of a group of 10 capuchin monkeys on a small island in the 
waterfowl pond near the crossroads. Trees were cut back so that there 
is no possibility of the monkeys' jmnping from branch to branch to 
freedom, and the surrounding water is sufficient barrier to keep them 
from climbing the low fence that surrounds the area. With a small 
tree-house shelter against inclement weather, the monkeys have done 
well, and the ducks and geese have accepted the new arrivals with 
equanimity. 

"Beaver Valley," the wooded ravine below the bear dens, which fell 
into disuse during World War II, was finally restored, and new pools 
and fencing put in. In addition to the large beaver pond, on which a 
pair of mute swans raised their young, there are pools for harbor 
seals, otters, and other aquatic mammals. 

Three dens in the main bear line were repaired with reinforced 
concrete floor slabs, copings, gutters, partition walls, and ironwork. 
Five cages in the short bear line above the reptile house were also re- 
paired. This meant breaking up old deteriorated concrete walkways, 
floor slabs, and pools, and replacing them with new concrete. 

Major alterations were made to the interior of the old cookhouse, 
which will now be used as an operating room for animals. An exten- 
sion to the parking area fronting the pachyderm house was completed, 
and repairs were made to holes in the main roadways. A new floor 
was installed in the director's office, as the old one had been badly 
damaged by termites, and the office was painted. 

There was constant repair to old water and sewer systems, to electric 
lines, heating lines, steam bypasses and return lines, and boilers in the 
central heating plant. Some new heating lines, conduits, sewer lines. 



1 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 177 

and storm-water lines were installed. All cleaning of ground areas 
and burning and hauling of trash to the District dump was done by 
the mechanical department. 

The grounds department fomid that with new equipment, in par- 
ticular a Skyworker for trimming high branches, and enlarged per- 
sonnel, including two dendricians or tree culturists, the 5-year backlog 
of work was reduced in a satisfactory manner. Two more flower beds 
were planted and others slightly enlarged. Barberry bushes were 
planted in strategic spots to deter visitors from walking in unsafe 
areas. Trees were planted for both shade and forage. 

Four more employees in the grounds department attended and com- 
pleted classes in first aid; instructions were given to some of the 
keepers and police in the use of the Sl^worker in case of emergencies ; 
and all men in the grounds crew were given a one-hour horticultural 
classroom lesson montlily. 

The Washington Star, on June 18, 1961, carried an article in the 
gravure section entitled "Washington's Toughest Gardening Job," 
describing the work done by Michael Dubik, supervisory head gar- 
dener, and his staff of 10 men. 

PLANS FOR THE FUTURE 

Owing to the intense interest in plans for the development and 
growth of the National Zoological Park, the architectural and engi- 
neering firm of Daniel, Mann, Mendenhall & Jolinson began archi- 
tectural studies and engineering estimates for a redevelopment of the 
Zoo. These plans will be completed by September 1961. 
Respectfully submitted. 

Theodore H. Reed, Director. 
Dr. Leonard Carmichael, 
Secretary^ Smithsonian Institution. 



Report on the Canal Zone Biological Area 

Sir : It gives me pleasure to present herewith the annual report on 
the Canal Zone Biological Area for the fiscal year ended June 30, 
1961. 



SCIENTISTS, STUDENTS, AND OBSERVERS 

Following is the list of 43 scientists, students, and observers who 
visited Barro Colorado Island last year and stayed for several days 
in order to conduct scientific research or observe the wildlife of the 
area. Fourteen other scientific visitors each spent a day and a night 
on the island. In addition, scientists of other research and technical 
organizations in the Canal Zone and the Eepublic of Panama made use 
of station facilities. 



Name 
Barghoom, Dr. and Mrs. Elso S., 

Harvard University. 
Basliin, Jonathan N., 

Harvard University. 
Bennett, Dr. and Mrs. Charles, Jr., 

University of California. 
Blest, Dr. Andrew D., 

University College, London. 
Brennan, Dr. and Mrs. James, 

Middle America Research. 
Bumzahem, Mr. and Mrs. Carlos B., 

University of Illinois. 
Colby, Susan, 

Smithsonian Institution. 
Craven, Mrs. Harriet P., 

Fallen Leaf, Calif. 
Ebinger, Dr. and Mrs. John, 

Yale University. 
Eisenmann, Eugene, 

New York City. 
Fast, Arthur H., 

Arlington, Va, 
Greenfield, Ray, 

Honolulu, Hawaii, 
Hodgson, Mr. and Mrs. Edward S., 

Commonwealth Scientific and Indus- 
trial Research Organization, Aus- 
tralia. 
Klopfer, Dr. Peter H., 

Duke University. 



Principal interest 



Limnology. 

Study of army 

pomerines. 
Microclimatology. 



ants, dorylines and 



Behavior of Lepidoptera. 



Wildlife observation. 



Herpetology. 



Inspection of facilities. 



Wildlife observation. 



Botany. 



Ornithology. 



Wildlife observation. 



Wildlife observation. 



Ecology. 



Tropical ecology. 



178 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 



179 



Name 
Larsen, Mr. and Mrs. Henry, 

Geneve, Switzerland. 
Lundy, William, 

Panama Canal Co. 
MacArthur, Dr. Robert, 

Duke University. 
Martin, Otis O., 

Smithsonian Institution. 
O'Neill, John P., 

Norman, Okla. 
Pennoyer, Capt. Ralph G., 

Virginia Society of Ornithology. 
Pohl, Harold, 

Orange Coast College. 
Rubinofif, Mr. and Mrs. Ira, 

Harvard University. 
Selsor, C. Jackson, 

San Diego, Calif. 
Smith, Lloyd M., 

Orange Coast College. 
Stirling, Mrs. Matthew W., 

Washington, D.C. 
Stott, Kenhelm, 

San Diego, Calif. 
Straatman, R., 

CSIRO, Canberra, Australia. 
Stuart, Dr. Alastair M., 

University of Chicago. 
Sweeney, Mrs. Edward C, 

Washington, D.C. 
Taylor, Mr. and Mrs. R. W., 

Harvard University. 
Willis, Edwin, 

University of California. 
Williams, Pfc. Carl, 

Headquarters U.S. Army, Caribbean. 
Zimmerman, Mr. and Mrs. John L., 

University of Illinois. 



Principal interest 
Wildlife observation. 

Wildlife observation. 

Tropical ecology. 

Fiscal survey. 

Ornithology. 

Wildlife observation. 

Wildlife observation. 

Ichthyology. 

Wildlife observation. 

Wildlife observation. 

Wildlife observation. 

Wildlife observation. 

Entomology. 

Termite behavior. 

Wildlife observation. 

Ant behavior. 

Ecology and behavior of birds follow- 
ing army ants. 
Wildlife observation. 

Physiology of tropical birds. 



VISITORS 
Approximately 212 visitors were permitted to visit the island for 
a day. 

RAINFALL 

During the dry season (January through April) of the calendar 
year 1960, rains of 0.01 inch or more fell during 52 days (163 hours) 
and amounted to 26.64 inches, as compared to 1.91 inches during 1959. 
During the wet season of 1960 (May through December), rains of 
0.01 inch or more fell on 172 days (757 hours) and amounted to 113.43 
inches, as compared to 92.97 inches during 1959. Total rain for the 
year was 140.07 inches. During 36 years of record, the wettest year 



180 



ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 



was 1935 with 143.42 inches, and the driest year was 1930 with only 
76.57 inches. February Avas the driest month of 1960 (0.95 inch) and 
December the wettest (22.35 inches) . The maximum records for short 
periods were: 5 minutes, 1.30 inches; 10 minutes, 1.65 inches; 1 hour, 
4.11 inches; 2 hours, 6.33 inches; 24 hours, 10.87 inches. 



Table 1.- 


-Anmial 


'■ainfall, Ba 


7-ro Colorado Island, Canal Zont 




Year 


Total 
inches 


Station 
average 


Year 


Total 
inches 


station 
average 


1925 


104. 37 
118.22 

116. 36 
101. 52 

87.84 
76.67 

123. 30 
113. 52 
101. 73 
122. 42 
143. 42 

93.88 

124. 13 

117. 09 
11.5. 47 

86.51 

91.82 

111. 10 


113.56 
114. 68 
111.35 

106. 56 
101.51 

104. 69 

105. 76 
105. 32 

107. 04 
110.35 

108. 98 
110. 12 
110. 62 
110. 94 

109. 43 
108. 41 
108. 55 


1943 


120. 29 

111.96 

120. 42 

87.38 

77.92 

83. 16 

114. 86 

114.51 

112.72 

97.68 

104. 97 

105. 68 
114.42 
114.05 

97.97 
100. 20 

94.88 
140. 07 


109. 20 


1926 


1944 


109. 30 


1927 


1945 

1946 


109. 84 


1928 


108. 81 


1929 


1947 


107. 49 


1930 


1948 


106. 43 


1931 


1949-.-. _ -- 


106. 76 


1932 


1950 


107. 07 


1933 


1951 


107. 28 


1934 


1952 


106. 94 


1935 


1953 __ -_ .- 


106. 87 


1936 . 


1954 


106. 82 


1937 


1955 


107. 09 


1938 


1956 


107. 30 


1939 


1957 


106. 98 


1940 


1958 


106. 70 


1941 


1959 


106. 48 


1942 


1960 


107. 41 









Table 2. — Comparison of 1959 and 1960 rainfall, Barro Colorado Island (inches) 



Month 


Total 


station 
average 


Years of 
record 


I960 
excess or 
deficiency 


Accumu- 
lated 




1959 


1060 


excess or 
deficiency 


January. _ 


0.32 
0. 15 
0. 11 
1.33 

8.89 

8.29 

8.86 

8.62 

14.69 

9.03 

10. 18 

24.41 


2.96 
.95 

4.47 
18.26 
15.55 
11. 53 
11.46 

7.02 

9.49 
19. 50 
16. 53 
22. 35 


2. 17 

1.36 

1.27 

3.39 

10.98 

10. 84 

11.63 

12.21 

10. 18 
14.06 
18. 16 

11. 16 


35 
35 
35 
36 
36 
36 
36 
36 
36 
36 
36 
36 


+.79 
-.41 

+ 3.20 
+ 14. 87 

+ 4.57 
+ .69 
-. 17 

-5. 19 
-.69 

+ 5.44 

- 1. 63 
+ 11. 19 




February 


+.38 


March 


+ 3.58 


April 


+ 18.45 


May 


+ 23.02 


June 


+ 23. 71 


July 


+ 23. 54 


August 


+ 18.35 


September 


+ 17.66 


October 


+ 23. 10 


November. _ 


+ 21.47 


December 


+ 32. 66 






Year 


94.88 


140. 07 


107. 41 






+ 32. 66 










Dry season 


1.91 
92.97 


26.64 
113.43 


8. 19 
99.22 






+ 18.45 


Wet season 






+ 14.21 











SECRETARY'S REPORT 181 

BUILDINGS, EQUIPMENT, AND IMPROVEMENTS 

The existing facilities on Barro Colorado Island were improved in 
a number of ways during the last year. The top floor of the Old 
Laboratory was renovated to provide additional living accommoda- 
tions for visitmg scientists. The reconstruction of Barbour House at 
its new site, necessitated by the 1959 landslide, was completed. Ex- 
tensive repairs were made to the dock, and a new landing stage, to 
facilitate loading and unloading of gas and diesel oil drums, was 
constructed. Routine maintenance activities included painting some 
buildings, and minor repairs to several houses and aviaries. One 
generator was overhauled, and a new electric i/^-hp. water pump was 
installed. New rain-recording equipment is in process of being in- 
stalled by the Hydrographic Office of the Panama Canal Company. 
Expansion of the library continued. 

OTHER ACTIVITIES 

Scientific research conducted on Barro Colorado Island during the 
past year encompassed every field of tropical natural history except 
anthropology. 

The Resident Naturalist continued his research on the behavior of 
several groups of tropical birds and monkeys. Field observations of 
the behavior of tropical American carnivores were completed. 

Dr. John Ebinger, of Yale University, conducted botanical studies 
in addition to adding considerably to the collection of botanical speci- 
mens and reorganizing the station herbarium. 

John Zimmerman continued the research on the physiology of 
tropical birds begun in 1959 by Dr. Charles Kendeigh of the Uni- 
versity of Illinois. Other research projects continued dealt with 
temperature and humidity gradients conducted by Dr. Charles F. 
Bennett, Jr., and the analysis of the behavior of Lepidoptera by Dr. 
Andrew Blest. A summaiy of Dr. Blest's earlier work on Barro 
Colorado Island appeared in the Annual Report of the Smithsonian 
Institution for 1959. 

Termites and ants, both of which have been favored subjects for 
study from the inception of the station, continued to provide material 
for several scientists. Those birds that follow amiy ants were the 
subject of a year-long investigation by Edwin Willis of the University 
of California. 

FINANCES 

Trust funds for the maintenance of the island and its living facil- 
ities are obtained by collections from visitors and scientists, table 
subscriptions, and donations. 

The following institutions continued their support to the laboratory 
through the payment of table subscriptions: Eastman Kodak Co., 



182 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

New York Zoological Society, and Smithsonian Institution. Dona- 
tions are also gratefully acknowledged from Eugene Eisenmann and 
CM. Goethe. 

PLANS AND REQUIREMENTS 

The only major building project in view is the reconstruction of the 
boathouse for which work plans have been made. Plans have also 
been made to overhaul the Snook^ the large motor launch. 

The improvement of the library will continue. 

Within the next few years several major items of equipment will 
need to be replaced. 

ACKNOWLEDGMENTS 

The Canal Zone Biological Area can operate only with the excel- 
lent cooperation of the Canal Zone Government and the Panama 
Canal Company. Thanks are due especially to the former Lt. Gov. 
John D. McElheny, and the Executive Secretary Paul Runnestrand 
and his staff; the Customs and Immigration officials; and the Police 
Division. Also deeply appreciated are the technical advice and as- 
sistance provided by P. Alton White, Chief of the Dredging Division, 
and members of his staff ; and C. C. Soper of the Eastman Kodak Co. 

Respectfully submitted. 

Martin H. Moynihan, 

Resident Naturalist. 

Dr. Leonard Carmichael, 
Secretary^ Smithsonian Institution. 



Report on the International 
Exchange Service 

Sir : I have the honor to submit the following report of the activities 
of the International Exchange Service for the fiscal year ended June 
30, 1961 : 

The International Exchange Service was initiated by the Smith- 
sonian Institution in the early years of its existence for the inter- 
change of scientific publications between learned societies and 
individuals in the United States and those of foreign countries. It 
serves as a means of developing and executing, in part, the broad and 
comprehensive objective of the Institution, "the diffusion of 
knowledge." 

The Smithsonian Institution is the official United States agency for 
the exchange with other nations of governmental, scientific, and 
literary publications. The International Exchange Service is the 
bureau designated to carry out the functions assigned to the Smith- 
sonian Institution in various conventions, treaties, and international 
agreements relating to the international exchange of publications. 

Publications were received from approximately 250 domestic sources 
including United States Government bureaus and departments, con- 
gressional committees and members of Congress, universities, agri- 
cultural experiment stations, learned societies, organizations, and 
individuals for transmission to foreign addressees in more than 100 
foreign countries. Among the publications received for transmission 
abroad are the following : Language, Journal of the Linguistic Society 
of America ; Journal of the National Education Association ; Journal 
of the American Dental Society ; Journal of Science, Iowa State Col- 
lege ; Virginia Journal of Science, University of Virginia ; Novitates, 
American Museum of Natural History ; Expedition, LTniversity Mu- 
seum, University of Pennsylvania ; Brevoria, Museum of Comparative 
Zoology, Harvard College; Anthropological Record, University of 
California ; Yale University Bulletin ; Yearbook of the Carnegie In- 
stitution of Washington; Zoologica, New York Zoological Society; 
Transactions of the American Geophysical Union ; Transactions of the 
American Association of Physicians; Transactions of the American 
Society of Mechanical Engineers; American Midland Naturalist; 
Museum of Art Register, University of Kansas ; Paleontological Con- 
tributions, University of Kansas ; Oregon Law Review, University of 

625325—62 13 183 



184 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

Oregon ; Studies in English, University of Texas ; Proceedings of the 
American Philosophical Society; Contributions, Scripps Institution 
of Oceanography ; and Annals of the Missouri Botanical Garden. 

The number of packages of publications received for transmission 
during the year was 1,272,604, an increase of 130,606 over the previous 
fiscal year. The weight of the packages received was 923,179 pounds, 
an increase of 45,543 over the previous fiscal year. 

The packages of publications are forwarded by ocean freight to the 
port of entry selected by the foreign exchange bureau to whom the 
shipment is consigned. They are then distributed by the foreign ex- 
change bureau to the intended addressees. 

In the countries where there is no exchange bureau, the publications 
are mailed directly to the addressees. However, if the weight of the 
packages (intended for one addressee) would make it more econom- 
ical to forward by ocean freight, the packages are so transmitted to 
the port selected by the addressee, who must make all arrangements 
for accepting the shipment at that port of entry. 

The total weight of the packages forwarded during the year 
amounted to 895,010 pounds, of which 671,181 pounds were forwarded 
by ocean and domestic freight, and 323,829 pounds were forwarded 
by mail or other means. This was 24,226 pounds more than was for- 
warded during the previous fiscal year. The number of cases shipped 
to the foreign exchange bureaus was 3,375, or 74 less than during the 
previous fiscal year. Of these cases 1,028 were for the full depository 
recipients of official United States publications which were compiled 
and forwarded in accordance with bilateral treaties made between the 
United States and other countries for the exchange of official 
publications. 

Shipments are made to Formosa. No shipments are being made to 
the mainland of China, North Korea, and Communist- controlled area 
of Viet-Nam. 

FOREIGN DEPOSITORIES OF GOVERNMENTAL DOCUMENTS 

The recipients of the official United States publications are deter- 
mined as a result of bilateral treaties entered into between the United 
States and the various foreign countries for the mutual exchange of 
their official publications. The treaty stipulates whether the recipient 
will receive all the official publications of the United States Govern- 
ment or only a selected list. The recipient receiving all the official 
publications is classified as a full depository. The recipient receiving 
a selected list is classified as a partial depository. The International 
Exchange Service receives copies of all the official United States pub- 
lications. These are sorted and transmitted to the depositories desig- 
nated by the Library of Congress. During the past fiscal year there 
were 598,238 pieces weighing 184,264 pounds assembled for transmis- 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 185 

sion to the full depository recipients, and 71,940 pieces weighing 
31,108 pounds assembled and transmitted to the partial depository re- 
cipients. The names and addresses of the full and partial depositories 
are given in the following list : 

DEPOSITORIES OF FULL SETS 

Abgentina: Divisi6n Biblioteca, Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores y Culto, 

Buenos Aires. 
Australia : Commonwealth National Library, Canberra. 

New South Wales : Public Library of New South Wales, Sydney. 

Queensland : Parliamentary Library, Brisbane. 

South Australla : Public Library of South Australia, Adelaide, 

Tasmanla : Parliamentary Library, Hobart. 

VicTORLA : Public Library of Victoria, Melbourne. 

Western Australia : State Library, Perth. 
Austria: Administrative Library, Federal Chancellery, Vienna. 
Brazil : Biblioteca Nacional, Rio de Janeiro, 
Bulgaria : Bulgarian Bibliographical Institute, Sofia.* 
Burma : Government Book Depot, Rangoon. 
Canada : Library of Parliament, Ottawa. 

Manitoba : Provincial Library, Winnipeg. 

Ontario : Legislative Library, Toronto. 

Quebec : Library of the Legislature of the Province of Quebec. 
Ceylon : Department of Information, Government of Ceylon, Colombo. 
Chile: Biblioteca Nacional, Santiago, 
China : National Central Library, Taipei, Taivpan. 

National Chengchi University, Taipei, Taiwan. 
Colombia : Biblioteca Nacional, Bogota. 
Costa Rica : Biblioteca Nacional, San Jos6. 
Cuba: Direccifin de Asuntos Culturales, Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores, 

Habana.* 
Czechoslovakia : University Library, Prague. 

Denmark : Institut Danois des fichanges Internationaux, Copenhagen. 
Egypt : Bureau des Publications, Ministfere des Finances, Cairo. 
Finland : Parliamentary Library, Helsinki. 
France : Bibliotheque Nationale, Paris, 
Germany: Deutsche Staatsbibliothek, Berlin. 

Free University of Berlin, Berlin-Dahlem. 

Parliamentary Library, Bonn. 
Great Britain : 

England : British Museum, London. 

London : London School of Economics and Political Science. (Depository 
of the London County Council.) 
Hungary : Library of Parliament, Budapest.* 
India : National Library, Calcutta. 

Central Secretariat Library, New Delhi. 

Parliament Library, New Delhi. 
Indonesia : Ministry for Foreign Affairs, Djakarta. 
Ireland : National Library of Ireland, Dublin. 
Israel : State Archives and Library, Hakirya, Jerusalem. 



1 Shipment suspended. 
B Change la address. 



186 ANTRAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

Italy : Ministero della Pubblica Istruzione, Rome. 

Japan : National Diet Library, Tokyo.* 

Mexico: Secretarla de Relaciones Exteriores, Departamento de Informacifin 
para el Extranjero Mexico, D.F. 

Netherlands : Royal Library, Tbe Hague. 

New Zealand : General Assembly Library, "Wellington. 

Norway : Utenriksdepartmentets Bibliothek, Oslo. 

Peru : Secci6n de Propaganda y Publicaciones, Ministerio de Relaciones Ex- 
teriores, Lima. 

Philippines : Bureau of Public Libraries, Department of Education, Manila. 

Poland : Bibliotb^que Nationale, Warsaw.^ 

Portugal : Biblioteca Nacional, Lisbon. 

Spain : Biblioteca Nacional, Madrid. 

Sweden : Kungliga Biblioteket, Stockholm. 

Switzerland : Biblioth5que Centrale F6d6rale, Berne. 

Turkey : National Library, Ankara. 

Union op South Africa : State Library, Pretoria, Transvaal. 

Union of Soviet Socialist Republics : All-Union Lenin Library, Moscow. 

United Nations : Library of the United Nations, Geneva, Switzerland. 

Uruguay : Oficina de Cauje Internacional de Publicaciones, Montevideo. 

Venezuela : Biblioteca Nacional, Caracas. 

Yugoslavia : Bibliograf ski Institut FNRJ, Belgrade.* 

depositories of partial sets 

Afghanistan : Library of the Afghan Academy, Kabul. 

Belgium : Biblioth^que Royale, Bruxelles. 

Bolivia : Biblioteca del Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores y Culto, La Paz. 

Brazil : Minas Gerais : Departmento Estadul de Estatistica, Belo Horizonte. 

British Guiana : Government Secretary's Office, Georgetown, Demerara. 

Canada : 

AxBERTA : Provincial Library, Edmonton. 

British Columbia : Provincial Library, Victoria. 

New Brunswick : Legislative Library, Fredericton. 

Newfoundland : Department of Provincial Affairs, St. John's. 

Nova Scotia : Provincial Secretary of Nova Scotia, Halifax. 

Saskatchewan : Legislative Library, Regina. 
Dominican Republic : Biblioteca de la Universidad de Santo Domingo, Ciudad 

Trujillo. 
Ecuador : Biblioteca Nacional, Quito. 
El Salvador : 

Biblioteca Nacional, San Salvador. 

Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores, San Salvador. 
Greece : National Library, Athens, 
Guatemala : Biblioteca Nacional, Guatemala. 
Haiti : Bibliothfeque Nationale, Port-au-Prince. 
Honduras : 

Biblioteca Nacional, Tegucigalpa. 

Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores, Tegucigalpa. 
Iceland : National Library, Reykjavik. 
India: 

Bombay : Secretary to the Government, Bombay. 

Bihar : Revenue Department, Patna. 



■ Receives two sets. 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 187 

Kerala : Kerala Legislature Secretariat, Trivandrum. 

Uttar Pradesh : 

University of Allahabad, Allahabad. 
Secretariat Library, Lucknow. 

West Bengal: Library, West Bengal Legislative Secretariat, Assembly 
House, Calcutta. 
Iran : Imperial Ministry of Education, Tehran. 
Iraq : Public Library, Baghdad. 
Jamaica : 

Colonial Secretary, Kingston. 

University College of the West Indies, St. Andrew. 
Lebanon : American University of Beirut, Beirut. 
LiBERLi : Department of State, Monrovia. 

Mai,aya : Federal Secretariat, Federation of Malaya, Kuala Lumpur. 
Malta : Minister for the Treasury, Valletta. 
Nicaragua : Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores, Managua. 
Pakistan : Central Secretariat Library, Karachi. 
Panama : Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores, Panamfi. 

Paraguay : Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores, Seccion Biblioteca, Asunci6n. 
Philippines : House of Representatives, Manila. 
Scotland : National Library of Scotland, Edinburgh. 
SiAM : National Library, Bangkok. 

Singapore : Chief Secretary, Government Offices, Singapore. 
Sudan : Gordon Memorial College, Khartoum. 

INTERPARLIAMENTARY EXCHANGE OF THE OFFICIAL JOURNAL 

There are now being sent abroad 87 copies of the FederaV Register 
and 100 copies of the Congressional Record. This is an increase over 
the preceding year of three copies of the Congressional Record with 
no change in the recipients of the Federal Register. The countries to 
which these journals are being forwarded are given in the following 
list. 

depositories of congressional record and federal register 

Argentina : 

Biblioteca de la H. Legislatura de Mendoza, Mendoza.* 

Biblioteca del Poder Judicial, Mendoza.' 

Boletin Oficial de la Repiibliea Argentina, Buenos Aires. 

CAmara de Diputados Oflcina de Inf ormaci6n Parliamentaria, Buenos Aires. 
Australia : 

Commonwealth National Library, Canberra. 

New South Wales : Library of Parliament of New South Wales, Sydney. 

Queensland : Chief Secretary's Office, Brisbane. 

Victoria : Public Library of Victoria, Melbourne." 

Western Australia : Library of Parliament of Western Australia, Perth. 
Belgium : Bibliotheque du Parlement, Palais de la Nation, Brussels.* * 
Brazil : Biblioteca da Camara dos Deputados, Brasilia, D.F.** 
Brazil : Secretaria da Presidencia, Rio de Janeiro.* 
British Honduras : Colonial Secretary, Belize. 
Cambodia : Ministry of Information, Phnom Penh. 



* Congressional Record only. 
•Federal Register only. 
•Added daring the year. 



188 ANNTJAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

Canada : 

Clerk of the Senate, Houses of Parliament, Ottawa. 

Library of Parliament, Ottawa. 
Ceylon : Ceylon Ministry of Defense and External Affairs, Colombo.* 
Chile : Biblioteca del Congreso Nacional, Santiago.* 
China : 

Legislative Yuan, Taipei, Taiwan.* 

Taiwan Provincial Government, Taipei, Taiwan. 
Cuba: 

Biblioteca del Capitolio, Habana. 

Biblioteca Piiblica Panamericana, Habana.* 
Czechoslovakia : Ceskoslovenska Akademie Ved. Prague.* 
Egypt : Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Egyptian Government, Cairo.* 
Finland : Library of the Parliament, Helsinki.* • 
France : 

Biblioth&que Assembl^e Nationale, Paris. 

BibliothSque Conseil de la R^publique, Paris. 

Library, Organization for European Economic Cooperation, Paris.* 

Research Department, Council of Europe, Strasbourg.* 

Service de la Documentation fitrangfere, Assembl^e Nationale, Paris.* 
Germany : 

Amerika Institut der Universitat Miinchen, Milnchen.* 

Archiv, Deutscher Bundestag, Bonn. 

Bibliothek des Instituts fiir Weltwirtschaft an der Universitfit Kiel, 
Kiel-Wik. 

Bibliothek Hessischer Landtag, Wiesbaden.* 

Deutsches Institut fiir Rechtswissenschaf t, Potsdam-Babelsberg II.* 

Deutscher Bundesrat, Bonn.* 

Deutscher Bundestag, Bonn.* 

Hamburgisches Welt-Wirtschaf ts-Archiv, Hamburg. 

Westdeutsche Bibliothek, Marburg, Hessen.* * ^ 
Ghana : Chief Secretary's Ofl3ce, Accra.* 
Great Britain : 

Department of Printed Books, British Museum, London. 

House of Commons Library, London.* 

N.P.P. Warehouse, H.M. Stationery Office, London.' ' 

Printed Library of the Foreign Office, London. 

Royal Institute of International Affairs, London.* 
Greece : Biblioth6que, Chambre des D4put6s Hellenique, Athens. 
Guatemala : Biblioteca de la Asamblea Legislative, Guatemala. 
Haiti : Biblioth&que Nationale, Port-au-Prince. 
Honduras : Biblioteca del Congreso Nacional, Tegucigalpa. 
Hungary : Orszdgos Sz^chenji KonyvtS^r, Budapest. 
India: 

Civil Secretariat Library, Lucknow, United Provinces.' 

Indian Council of World Affairs, New Delhi.* 

Jammu and Kashmir Constituent Assembly, Srinagar.* 

Legislative Assembly, Government of Assam, Shillong.* 

Legislative Assembly Library, Lucknow, United Provinces. 

Kerala Legislature Secretariat, Trivandrum.* 

Madras State Legislature, Madras.* 

Parliament Library, New DelhL 



' Three copies. 
* Two copies. 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 189 

Gokhale Institute of Politics and Economics, Poona.* 
Ikeiand : Dail Eireann, Dublin. 
Israel : Library of the Knesset, Jerusalem. 
Italy: 

Biblioteca Camera dei Deputati, Rome. 

Biblioteca del Senato della Republica, Rome. 

International Institute for the Unification of Private Law, Rome." 

Periodicals Unit, Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations, 
Rome.* 
Japan : 

Library of the National Diet, Tokyo. 

Ministry of Finance, Tokyo. 
Jordan : Parliament of the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan, Amman.* 
Korea : Library, National Assembly, Seoul. 
Luxembourg : Assembl^e Commune de la C.E.O.A., Luxembourg. 
Mexico : 

Direcci6n, General Informacion, Secretarla de Governacifin, Mexico, D.F. 

Biblioteca Benjamin Franklin, Mexico, D.F. 

Aguascalientes : Gobernador del Estado de Aguascalientes, Aguascalientes. 

Baja Californla, : Gobernador del Distrito Norte, Mexicali. 

Campeche : Gobernador del Estado de Campeche, Campeche. 

CHLiPAS : Gobernador del Estado de Chiapas, Tuxtla Guiti^rrez. 

Chihuahua : Gobernador del Estado de Chihuahua, Chihuahua. 

Coahuila: Peri6dico Oficial del Estado de Coahuila, Palacio de Gobierno, 
Saltillo. 

CoLiMA : Gobernador del Estado de Colima, Colima. 

Guanajuato: Secretarla General de Gobierno del Estado, Guanajuato.* 

Jalisco : Biblioteca del Estado, Guadalajara. 

Mfexico : Gaceta del Gobierno, Toluca. 

MichoacAn : Secretarla General de Gobierno del Estado de Michoac&n, 
Morelia. 

Morelos : Palacio de Gobierno, Cuernavaca. 

Nayakit : Gobernador de Nayarit, Tepic. 

NuEvo LfeoN : Biblioteca del Estado, Monterrey. 

Oaxaca : Peri6dico Oficial, Palacio de Gobierno, Oaxaca.* 

PuEBLA : Secretarla General de Gobierno, Puebla. 

QuEBfixARO : Secretarla General de Gobierno, Secci6n de Archive, Querdtaro. 

Sinaloa : Gobernador del Estado de Sinaloa, Culiacdn. 

Sonora: Gobernador del Estado de Sonora, Hermosillo. 

Tamaulipas : Secretarla General de Gobierno, Victoria. 

Veracruz: Gobernador del Estado de Veracruz, Departamento de Gober- 
naci6n y Justicia, Jalapa. 

YucatIn : Gobernador del Estado de Yucatan, M^rida. 
Netherlands : Koninklijke Bibliotheek, The Hague." 
New Zealand: General Assembly Library, Wellington. 
Norway: Library of the Norwegian Parliament, Oslo. 
Panama : Biblioteca Nacional, Panama City.* 
Philippines : House of Representatives, Manila. 
Poland : Kancelaria Rady Panstwa, Biblioteka Sejmowa, Warsaw. 
Portuguese Timor : RepartigSo Central de Administragao Civil, Dili." 
Rhodesia and Nyasaland : Federal Assembly, Salisbury.' 
Rumania: Biblioteca Centrala de Stat RPR, Bucharest. 
Spain : Boletin Oficial del Estado, Presidencia del Gobierno, Madrid." 



190 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

Switzerland : Bibliotheque, Bureau International du Travail, Geneva." 

International Labor Office, Geneva.^'* 

Library, United Nations, Geneva. 
Togo : Ministere d' Etat, de I'lnterieur, de I'lnf ormation et de la Presse, Lome. 
Union of South Africa: 

Cape of Good Hope : Library of Parliament, Cape Town. 

Transvaal: State Library, Pretoria. 
Union of Soviet Socialist Republics : Fundamental'niia Biblioteka Obshchest- 

vennykh Nauk, Moscow. 
Uruguay : Diario Oficial, Calle Florida 1178, Montevideo. 
Yugoslavia: Bibliografski Institut FNRJ, Belgrade.' 

FOREIGN EXCHANGE SERVICES 
Exchange publications for addressees in the countries listed below 
are forwarded by freight to the exchange services of those countries. 
Exchange publications for addressees in other countries are forwarded 
directly by mail. 

LIST OF EXCHANGE SERVICES 

Austria: Austrian National Library, Vienna. 

Belgium : Service des ^changes Internationa ux, Bibliothfeque Royale de Bel- 
gique, Bruxelles. 

China: National Central Library, Taipei, Taiwan. 

Czechoslovakia: Bureau of International Exchanges, University Library, 
Prague. 

Denmark: Institut Danois des ^changes Internationaux, Biblioth&que Royale, 
Copenhagen. 

Egypt: Government Press, Publications Ofl3ce, Bulaq, Cairo. 

Finland : Delegation of the Scientific Societies, Helsinki. 

France: Service des ^changes Internationaux, Bibliothdque Nationale, Paris. 

Germany (Eastern) : Deutsche Staatsbibliothek, Berlin. 

Germany (Western) : Deutsche Forschungsgemeinschaft, Bad Godesberg. 

Hungary: Service Hongrois des Echanges Internationaux, Orszdgos Sz^cbenyl 
Konyvtdr, Budapest. 

India : Government Printing and Stationery, Bombay. 

Indonesia : Minister of Education, Djakarta. 

Israel : Jewish National and University Library, Jerusalem. 

Italy : UflBcio degli Scambi Internazionali, Ministero della Pubblica Istruzione, 
Rome. 

Japan : Division for Interlibrary Services, National Diet Library, Tokyo. 

Korea : Korean Library Association, Seoul. 

Netherlands: International Exchange Bureau of the Netherlands, Royal Li- 
brary, The Hague. 

New South Wales : Public Library of New South Wales, Sydney. 

New Zealand : General Assembly Library, Wellington. 

Norway: Service Norv^gien des Echanges Internationaux, Bibilothfeque de 
rUniversit6 Royale, Oslo. 

Philippines : Bureau of Public Libraries, Department of Education, Manila. 

Poland : Service Polonais des Echanges Internationaux, Bibliothdque Nationale, 
Warsaw. 

Portugal : Secciio de Trocas Internacionais, Biblioteca Nacional, Lisbon. 

Queensland: Bureau of International Exchange of Publications, Chief Secre- 
tary's Office, Brisbane. 

Rumania: International Exchange Service, Biblioteca Centrala de Stat, Bu- 
charest. 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 



191 



South Australia: South Australian Government Exchanges Bureau, Govern- 
ment Printing and Stationery Office, Adelaide. 

Spain : Junta de lutercambio y Adquisicion de Libros y Revistas para Bibliote- 
cas Ptiblicas, Miuisterio de Educaciou Nacional, Madrid. 

Sweden : Kungliga Biblioteket, Stockholm. 

Switzerland : Service Suisse des lilchanges Internationaux, Biblioth&que Cen- 
trale F6d6rale, Berne. 

Tasmania : Secretary of the Premier, Hobart. 

Turkey : National Library, Ankara. 

Union of South Africa: Government Printing and Stationery Office, Cape 
Town. 

Union of Soviet Socialists Republics : Bureau of Book Exchange, State Lenin 
Library, Moscow. 

Victoria : Public Library of Victoria, Melbourne. 

Western Australia : State Library, Perth. 

Yugoslavia : Bibliografski Institut FNRJ, Belgrade. 

The number of packages and the weight of the packages received 
from sources in the United States for transmission abroad, and the 
packages received from foreign sources intended for domestic ad- 
dressees are classified in the following table : 





Received by the Smithsonian Institution for 
transmission 


Classification 


For transmission abroad 


For distribution in the 
United States 




Number of 
packages 


Weight in 
pounds 


Number of 
packages 


Weight in 
pounds 


United States parliamentary docu- 
ments received for transmission 
abroad 


746, 298 


354, 886 






Publications received from foreign 
sources for United States parlia- 
mentary addressees 


10, 819 


14, 613 


United States departmental documents 
received for transmission abroad 


249, 019 


235, 823 




Publications received from foreign 
sources for United States depart- 
mental addressees 


4,721 


11, 651 


Miscellaneous scientific and literary 
publications received for transmis- 
sion abroad 


205, 972 


220, 240 




Miscellaneous scientific and literary 
publications received from abroad 
for distribution in the United States 


55, 775 


85, 966 










Totals 


1, 201, 289 


810, 949 


71,315 


112, 230 






Grand total __ 


1,272,604 Dackaees 


923,179 Dounda 













Eespectf ully submitted. 

Dr. Leonard Carmichael, 
Secretary^ Smithsonian Institution. 



J. A. Collins, Chief. 



Report on the National Gallery of Art 

Sir : I have the honor to submit, on behalf of the Board of Trustees, 
the twenty-fourth annual report of the National Gallery of Art, for 
the fiscal year ended June 30, 1961. This report is made pursuant to 
the provisions of section 5(d) of Public Resolution No. 14, Seventy- 
fifth Congress, first session, approved March 24, 1937 (50 Stat. 51). 

ORGANIZATION 

The statutory members of the Board of Trustees of the National 
Gallery of Art are the Chief Justice of the United States, the Secre- 
tary of State, the Secretary of the Treasury, and the Secretary of the 
Smithsonian Institution, ex officio. The four general trustees con- 
tinuing in office during the fiscal year ended June 30, 1961, were Fer- 
dinand Lammot Belin, Chester Dale, Paul Mellon, and Rush H. Kress. 
Duncan Phillips, a general trustee, resigned from the Board of 
Trustees on December 1, 1960, and on May 3, 1961, John Hay Whitney 
was elected a general trustee of the National Gallery of Art to serve 
in that capacity for the remainder of the term expiring July 1, 1963. 
On May 4, 1961, Chester Dale was reelected by the Board of Trustees 
to serve as President of the Gallery and Paul Mellon was elected Vice 
President. 

The executive officers of the Gallery as of June 30, 1961, are as 
follows : 

Huntington Cairns, Secretary-Treas- Ernest R. Feidler, Administrator. 

urer. Huntington Cairns, General Counsel. 

John Walker, Director. Perry B. Cott, Chief Curator. 

The three standing committees of the Board, as constituted at the 
annual meeting on May 4, 1961, were as follows : 

EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE 

Chief Justice of the United States, Earl Secretary of the Smithsonian Institu- 

Warren, Chairman. tion, Leonard Carmichael. 

Chester Dale, Vice Chairman. Paul Mellon, 

John Hay Whitney. 

FINANCE COMMITTEE 

Secretary of the Treasury, C. Douglas Secretary of the Smithsonian Institu- 

Dillon, Chairman. tion, Leonard Carmichael. 

Chester Dale, Vice Chairman. John Hay Whitney. 

Paul Mellon. 

192 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 193 

ACQUISITIONS COMMITTEE 

Paul Mellon, Chairman. John Hay Whitney. 

Chester Dale. John Walker. 

PERSONNEL 

At the close of the year full-time Government employees on the 
staff of the National Gallery numbered 312, as compared with 314 
employees at the close of the previous fiscal year. The United States 
Civil Service regulations govern the appointment of employees paid 
from appropriated public funds. 

Continued emphasis was given to the training of employees under 
the Government Employees Training Act. Under the provisions 
of this act, the Gallery secured training and development of several 
of its employees in their profession to help maintain the standing 
and prestige of the Gallery. Among those for whom training was 
provided during the year were the assistant chief curator, the curator 
of painting, the curator of education, and the associate curator of 
education. 

APPROPRIATIONS 

For the fiscal year ended June 30, 1961, the Congress of the United 
States in the regular annual appropriation for the National Gallery 
of Art provided $1,848,000 to be used for salaries and expenses in 
the operation and imkeep of the Gallery, the protection and care 
of works of art acquired by the Board of Trustees, and all adminis- 
trative expenses incident thereto, as authorized by Joint Resolution 
of Congress approved March 24, 1937 (20 U.S.C. 71-75; 50 Stat. 51). 
Congress also included in a supplemental appropriation act $72,000 
to cover pay increases not provided for in the regular appropriation. 
The total appropriation for the fiscal year was $1,920,000. 

The following expenditures and encumbrances were incurred: 

Personal services $1, 569, 500. 00 

Other than personal services 350, 395. 29 

Unobligated balance 104. 71 

Total 1, 920, 000. 00 

ATTENDANCE 

There were 1,032,340 visitors to the Gallery during the fiscal year 
1961, an increase of 67,150 over the total attendance of 965,190 visitors 
during the fiscal year 1960. The average number of visitors daily 
was 2,843. 

ACCESSIONS 

Tliere were 1,387 accessions by the National Gallery of Art as gifts, 
loans, or deposits during the fiscal year. 



194 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

GIFTS 

During the year the following gifts or bequests were accepted by the 
Board of Trustees: 

PAINTINGS 
DonoT Ariiit TiUe 

Coe Foundation, New York, Beechey General Sir Thomas Picton. 

N.Y. 

Do Cotes Miss Elizabeth Crewe. 

Do. Gainsborough William Yelverton Daven- 
port. 

Do Miereveld Portrait of a Lady with a 

Ruff. 

Chester Dale, New York, Stuart Lady Liston. 

N.Y. 

The Fuller Foundation, Inc., Reynolds Squire Musters. 

Boston, Mass. 

Do Gainsborough Master John Heath cote. 

Do Turner The Dogana and Santa 

Maria della Salute, Venice. 

Colonel and Mrs. Edgar W. Greenwood Mrs. Welshman. 

Garbisch, New York, 
N.Y. 

The Adele R. Levy Fund, Renoir Madame Henriot. 

Inc., New York, N.Y. 

National Gallery of Art Copley The Copley Family. 

Purchase Fund — 

Andrew W. Mellon Gift, de Heem Vase of Flowers. 

Mrs. Lillian S. Timken, Fry Landscape. 

New York, N.Y. 

Do do Potters in Landscape. 

Do do Obv.: Seascape. 

Rev.: Landscape with Palm 
Tree. 
Do do Sheep by Stream and Field. 

SCULPTURE 

Stanley Mortimer, Litch- Italian School, XVI Farnese Hercules, 
field, Conn. Century. 

DECORATIVE ARTS 

Coe Foundation, New York, Flemish Gothic The Return from the Hunt. 

N.Y. Tapestry. 

GRAPHIC ARTS 

During the year Mrs. E. C. Chadbourne gave a colored mezzotint 
portrait of George III with autograph of George I. An etching en- 
titled "Pastorale" by Hans Thoma was given by Rabbi Hugo B. 
Schiff, and a water color entitled "The Clipper Ship Minnie G. LoiuT'' 
by Eoux was given by Robert Peet Skinner. 

OTHER GIFTS 

During the fiscal year 1961 gifts of money were made by The A. W. 
Mellon Educational and Charitable Trust, Old Dominion Foundation, 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 195 

Avalon Foundation, Calouste Gulbenkian Foundation, The Fein 
Foundation, James N. Rosenberg, Irving R. Saal, Mrs. John T. Terry, 
and various donors in memory of Mrs. Dorothy V. Keppel. An 
additional cash bequest was received from the estate of William Nel- 
son Cromwell. 

EXCHANGE OF WORKS OF ART 

In exchange for nine works of art in the Samuel H. Kress Collec- 
tion, the Kress Foundation gave the National Gallery of Art the fol- 
lowing pieces of sculpture : 

Artist Title 

Tino di Camaino Madonna and Child with Queen Sancia, 

Saints and Ajigels. 

Giovanni di Balduccio Charity. 

Bonino da Campione Justice. 

Do Prudence. 

Orcagna Angel with Tambourine. 

Do Angel with Hurdy-Gurdy. 

Querela, Jacopo della Madonna of Humility. 

Master of the Mascoli Altar AjQgel of the Annunciation. 

Do Virgin of the Ajiuunclatlon. 

Do St. Peter. 

Do St. Paul. 

Benedetto da Maiano Madonna and Child. 

Fiambertl Madonna and Child. 

Robbia, Andrea della The Adoration of the Child. 

Robbia, Luca della Nativity, 

Solari, Cristoforo Madonna and Child. 

Michelangelo (attr. to) , Apollo and Marsyas. 

Sansovino Madonna and Child. 

Coysevox Louis of France, The Grand Dauphm. 

French School, Early 18th Century Louis, Due de Bourgogne. 

Desjardins Louis XIV. 

Riemenschneider St. Burchard of Wiirzburg. 

In exchange for a print by Odilon Redon entitled "Profile de 
Lumiere" in the Lessing J. Rosenwald Collection, Mr. Rosenwald gave 
the National Gallery of Art a superior impression of the same print. 

WORKS OF ART ON LOAN 
The following works of art were received on loan by the Gallery : 

From Artist Title 

Robert Woods Bliss, Wash- 28 objects of Pre-Columbian 

ington, D.C. Art. 

Mrs. Mellon Bruce, New Goya __ Condesa de Chinch6n. 

York, N.Y. 

Chester Dale, New York, Bellows Blue Morning. 

N.Y. 

Do Monet The Seine at Giverny. 

Jerome Hill, New York, Delacroix The Arab Tax. 

N.Y. 

Do do Fanatics of Tangiers. 



196 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

To Artist Titte 

Samuel H. Kress Founda- Master of Badia Madonna Enthroned with 

tion, New York, N.Y. a Isola. Angels. 

Do Signorelli Madonna and Child with 

Saints. 

Do Tintoretto. Summer. 

Mrs. Eugene Meyer, Wash- Dufresne Still Life. 

ington, D.C. 

Do Renoir Nude. 

Do. do Man Lying on a Sofa. 

WORKS OF ART ON LOAN RETURNED 
The following works of art on loan were returned during the fiscal 
year: 

To Artist TiUe 

Robert Woods Bliss, Wash- -. 6 objects of Pre-Columbian 

ington, D.C. Art. 

Mrs. Mellon Bruce, New Pissarro Spring at Lou veciennes. 

York, N.Y. 

Stephan Walter Cassirer, C6zanne Pears. 

Copenhagen, Denmark. 

The Calouste Gulbenkian Egyptian, Saite Statuette of the Courtier 

Foundation, Lisbon, Por- Period. Bes. 
tugal. 

Do - Egyptian, Saite Head of a Priest. 

Period. 

Samuel H. Kress Founda- .-. 30 paintings and 8 sculp- 

tion. New York, N.Y. tures. 

Mrs. Eugene Meyer, Wash- Dufresne Still Life. 

ington, D.C. 

Do Renoir Nude. 

Do Renoir Man Lying on a Sofa. 

Richard W. Norton, Shreve- Bingham The Result of the Election. 

port. La. 

WORKS OF ART LENT 
During the fiscal year the Gallery lent the following works of art 
for exhibition purposes : 

To Artist Titte 

American Federation of Daumier (bronze).. Le D^daigneux (Prunelle). 
Arts, New York, N.Y. 

Do Daumier (bronze)-. Le Rieur Edente. 

Do Daumier (bronze).. Le Stupide (Chevandier de 

Valdrome) . 

Birmingham Museum of Sully Andrew Jackson. 

Art, Birmingham, Ala. 

University of California, Boucher T^te-i-Tdte (drawing). 

UCLA Art Galleries, 
Los Angeles, Calif. 

Do Moreau le Jeune La Petite Loge (drawing). 

Corcoran Gallery of Art, Ryder Mending the Harness. 

Washington, D.C. 

Do Ryder Siegfried and the Rhine 

Maidens. 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 197 

To Artist TilU 

El Paso Museum of Art, Stuart Betsey Hartigan. 

El Paso, Tex. 

Do West. Self-Portrait. 

Do Trumbull William Rogers. 

Do Eichholtz The Ragan Sisters. 

Do Copley Henry Laurens. 

Do Peale Benjamin Harrison. 

Department of Justice, Dupr6 The Old Oak. 

Washington, D.C. 

Do Diaz de la Pefia Forest Scene. 

Do Tanner Engagement between the 

Monitor and Merrimac, 
Hampton Roads. 

Do Unknown Lexington Battle Monu- 
ment, 

Do do Leaving the Manor House. 

Do do Village by the River. 

Do do Regatta Near Sandy Hook. 

Smithsonian Institution, Roux The Clipper Ship "Minnie 

Washington, D.C. G. Loud." 

Departm-ent of State, Beechey General Sir Thomas Picton. 

American Embassy, 
London. 

Do.- - _- Cotes Miss Elizabeth Crewe. 

Do Gainsborough William Yelverton Daven- 
port. 

Do Miereveld . Portrait of a Lady with a 

Ruff. 

Do Flemish Gothic The Return from the Hunt. 

Tapestry. 

Department of State, Brussels, 17th- America. 

Washington, D.C. Century Tapestry. 

Do Harpignies Landscape. 

Do Feke Portrait of a Lady. 

Do Benbridge Portrait of a Man. 

Do Peale George Washington. 

Do Lambdin Abraham Lincoln. 

Do Romney Sir Archibald Campbell. 

Virginia Museum of Art, Stuart Mrs. Richard Yates. 

Richmond, Va. 

The White House, Wash- Hassam_ Allies Day, May 1917. 

ington, D.C. 

Do Audubon Farmyard Fowls. 

Do Bard Steamer St. Lawrence. 

Do Unknown Flowers and Fruit. 

Do Winterhalter Queen Victoria. 

Do MacKay Catherine Brower. 

Do Volk Abraham Lincoln. 

Do Schrag Solitude (engraving). 

Do Marini Cavalier Rouge (colored 

lithograph). 

Woodlawn Plantation, Mt. Polk General ■. Washington at 

Vernon, Va. Princeton. 



198 ANNTJAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

EXHIBITIONS 

The following exhibitions were held at the National Gallery of Art 
during the fiscal year 1961 : 

Prints hy Toulouse-Lautrec. From the Rosenwald Collection. Continued from 
previous fiscal year through August 15, 1960. 

French ISth-Century Prints and Draioinrjs. From the Wideuer Collection. Con- 
tinued from previous fiscal year through September 14, 1960. 

Pritits hy Hogarth. From the Rosenwald Collection. August 16, 1960, through 
December 1, 1960. 

Exhibitions of recent accessions. Paintings from the Timken Collection, Au- 
gust 30, 1960, through September 30, 1960 ; "Madame Henriot" by Renoir, Feb- 
ruary 26, 1961, through March 15, 1961 ; "Squire Musters" by Reynolds, "Master 
John Heathcote" by Gainsborough, and "The Dogana and Santa Maria della 
Salute, Venice" by Turner, May 6, 1961, through June 4, 1961. 

Italian Draicings from Five Centuries. Lent by Italian Museums. October 9, 
1960, through November 6, 1960. 

Italian Prints. From the Rosenwald Collection. October 9, 1960, through No- 
vember 6. 1960. 

Manuscript Illuminations, Xlth-XVth Century. From the Rosenwald Collec- 
tion. October 9, 1960, through February 2, 1961. 

The Splendid Century: French Art of the Seventeenth Century. Sponsored bj 
the Government of France and arranged by the Direction Generate des Affaires 
Culturelles and the Association Frangaise d' Action Artistique. November 10, 
1960, through December 15, 1960. 

Christmas Prints. From various donors. December 2, 1960, through March 5, 
1961. 

The Civil War, A Centennial Exhibition of Eyewitness Drawings. From 18 
collections and private lenders. January 8 through February 12, 1961. 

Rembrandt Etchings. From various donors. February 3 through March 21, 
1961. 

The Marie and Averell Harriman Collection. From the collection of the Honor- 
able and Mrs. W. Averell Harriman. April 16 through May 14, 1961. 

Chinese Art Treasures. Sponsored by the Government of the Republic of China. 
May 28, 1961, to continue into the next fiscal year. 

Early American Lighting Devices. From the Index of American Design. 
March 5, 1961, to continue into the next fiscal year. 

TRAVELING EXHIBITIONS 

Rosenwald Collection. — Special exhibitions of prints, drawings, 
and sculpture from the Rosenwald Collection were circulated during 
the fiscal year to 30 museums, universities, schools, and art centers in 
the United States. 

Index of American Design. — During the fiscal year 1961, 22 travel- 
ing exhibitions (753 plates and 60 lithographs) were circulated in 
this country to 15 States and the District of Columbia. 

CURATORIAL ACTIVITIES 

Under the direction of Dr. Perry B. Cott, chief curator, the cura- 
torial department accessioned 43 gifts to the Gallery during the 
fiscal year 1961. Advice was given regarding 670 works of art brought 



Secretary's Report, 1961 





Secretary's Report, 1961 



^„ 







-t: ^ 



■% 



!^ -. 



Secretary's Report. 1961 



Plate 12 




Secretary's Report, 1961 



Plate 13 




Renoir: Madame Ilcnriot. National Gallen- of .Vrt. Gift ol llie Adt-lc R. Lc\ > Fuiid. 1 iic. 



Secretary's Report, 1 96 1 



Plate 14 





1. Renoir: Girl with a Basket of Fish. 
National Gallery of Art. Gift of William 
Robertson Coe. 



2. Renoir: Girl with a Basket ot ()iaiijc,s. 
National Gallery of Art. Gift oi William 
Robertson Coe. 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 199 

to the Gallery for expert opinion and 25 visits to collections were 
made by members of the staff in connection with offers of gifts. 
About 3,700 inquiries, many of them requiring research, were answered 
verbally and by letter. 

Dr. Cott addressed the North Carolina State Art Society on the 
occasion of the opening of the Samuel H. Kress Collection in the North 
Carolina Museum of Art at Raleigh. 

Miss Elizabeth ISIongan, curator of graphic arts, lectured on 
Graphic Arts at Notre Dame University; the Renaissance Society, 
Cambridge, Mass. ; and the Art Institute of Chicago. 

Dr. H. Lester Cooke, curator of painting, lectured at the Smith- 
sonian Institution and at Georgetown University. 

Dr. Kathcrine Shepard, assistant curator of graphic arts, served 
again as secretary of the Washington Society of the Archaeological 
Institute of America. She gave a graduate course in Ancient Sculp- 
ture the first semester and a graduate course in Ancient Painting the 
second semester, at Catholic University. 

John Pancoast, registrar, gave a graduate seminar in Italian Ren- 
aissance Sculpture at Catholic University. 

The Richter Archives received and cataloged over 180 photographs 
on exchange from museums here and abroad, 2,178 photographs were 
purchased, and about 5,000 reproductions have been added to the 
Richter Archives. 

RESTORATION 

Francis Sullivan, resident restorer of the Gallery, made regular 
and systematic inspection of all works of art in the Gallery and 
periodically removed dust and bloom as required. He relined 12 
paintings and gave special treatment to 36. Sixteen paintings were 
X-rayed as an aid in research. Mr. Sullivan supervised the construc- 
tion of a vacuum hot-table and used it as an adjunct in the relining 
of paintings. Experiments were continued with the application of 
27H and other synthetic varnishes developed by the National Gallery 
of Art Fellowship at the Mellon Institute of Industrial Research, 
Pittsburgh, Pa. Proofs of all color reproductions of Gallery paint- 
ings were checked and approved, and technical advice on the conserva- 
tion of paintings was furnished to the public upon request. 

PUBLICATIONS 

"William P. Campbell, assistant chief curator, wrote the introduc- 
tion and catalog notes for the catalog of the exhibition The Civil War, 
A Oentennial Exhibition of Eyewitness Drawings. 

Miss Elizabeth Mongan, curator of graphic arts, wrote introduc- 
tions for two exhibition catalogs. 

625325 — 62 14 



200 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

Dr. H. Lester Cooke, curator of painting, wrote an article entitled 
"Great Masters of Impressionist Art : the Dale Collection," National 
Geographic Magazine^ May 1961. He was also coauthor of "Roman 
Drawings at Windsor Castle," Phaidon Press, 1960, and wrote articles 
for America Illustrated. 

Dr. Katharine Shepard, assistant curator of graphic arts, reviewed 
a book for the American Journal of Archaeology^ April 1961. 

Miss Anna M. Voris, museum curator, wrote an article on "Art 
Galleries" for the American Oxford Encyclopedia. 

During the fiscal year 1961 the Publications Fund published the 
remaining two in a series of ten booklets. Schools of Painting in the 
National Gallery of Art, and began the sale of boxed sets in slipcases. 
Two new catalogs were published, The Civil War and Exhibition of 
the Marie and Averell Harriman Collection, as well as a new edition 
of Tioentieth Century Painting from the Chester Dale Collection. 
New material placed on sale by the Publications Fund included 
"Horace Walpole" by Wilmarth Sheldon Lewis, the 1960 A. W. Mellon 
Lecturer in the Fine Arts; "The Revolution," a recording by Richard 
Bales of the Gallery staff; "Ratapoil," a sculpture reproduction of a 
work by Daumier in the Rosenwald Collection; "Roman Drawings at 
Windsor Castle" by Hereward Lester Cooke of the Gallery staff and 
Sir Anthony Blunt ; and two new collotype reproductions of portraits 
by Roberti in the Kress Collection. 

Five new color and eight new monotone postcards and an 11 x 14" 
reproduction of the Chalice of the Abbot Suger of Saint-Denis were 
published. The Christmas card selection included seven new color 
and four new black-and-white subjects. 

In connection with the exhibition of Chinese Art Treasures, a 
special sales area was set up in the central lobby at which fifty 2 x 2" 
slides published by the Fund were sold, as well as postcards, small and 
large prints, scrolls, books, and the exhibition catalog. 

EDUCATIONAL PROGRAM 

The program of the Educational Office was carried out under the 
direction of Dr. Raymond S. Stites, curator in charge of educational 
work, and his staff. The staff lectured and conducted tours on the 
works of art in the Gallery's collection. 

Attendance for the General Tours, Tours of the Week, and Picture 
of the Week talks, totaled 38,839, and that of the auditorium lectures 
on Sunday afternoons totaled 12,433 pereons. 

Special lectures, tours, and conferences were arranged for 376 groups 
and individuals, and the total number of persons served in this man- 
ner was 14,088. These included groups of visitors from Government 
agencies, club and study groups, foreign students, religious organiza- 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 201 

tions, convention groups, and women's organizations. These special 
services were also given to school groups from all over the country. 

The program of training volunteer docents continued and instruc- 
tion was given to approximately 100 volunteers. By special arrange- 
ment with the school systems of the District of Columbia and the 
surrounding counties of Maryland and Virginia these volunteers con- 
ducted tours for 1,724 cLasses with a total of 51,920 children, an in- 
crease of 5,336 children over last years total. 

The staff of the Educational Office delivered 10 lectures in the 
auditorium on Sunday afternoons, and 30 lectures were given by 
guest lecturers. Andre Grabar delivered the Tenth Annual Series 
of the A. W. Mellon Lectures in the Fine Arts, beginning April 16, 
1961, and continuing for six consecutive Sundays. His subject was 
"Christian Iconography and the Christian Religion in Antiquity." 

The slide library of the Educational Office has a total of 41,989 
slides in its permanent and lending collections. During the year 1,368 
slides were added to the collections; 285 persons borrowed a total of 
11,613 slides from the collections. 

Members of the staff participated in activities outside the Gallery. 
Dr. Stites gave a total of 54 lectures in various cities throughout the 
country and in Washington, D.C., and wrote four magazine articles. 
Dr. Margaret Bouton, associate curator, gave a night course in the 
history of art at the American University, and Marcel Franciscono, 
docent, gave a night course in the history of art at George Washing- 
ton University. The staff members prepared material for use by the 
volunteer docents and kept up the program of editing this material 
regularly. This material is also lent to slide borrowers and is sold 
with slide sets and photographs through the Publications Fund. 

A printed calendar of events was prepared and distributed monthly 
to a mailing list of 7,553 names. Twenty-one new 13-minute radio 
talks were prepared and recorded by members of the staff for use 
during intermission of the broadcasts of the Gallery's Smiday evening 

concerts. 

EXTENSION SERVICE 

The Extension Service was separated from the Educational Office 
and placed under the supervision of Dr. Grose Evans, curator of the 
Index of American Design. This service circulates to the public the 
traveling exhibits. Gallery films, and slide lecture sets. There are 17 
traveling exhibits in circulation, lent free of charge except for trans- 
portation charges. The exhibits were circulated 95 times and seen 
by approximately 46,000 viewere. There are three Gallery films in 
circulation ; these have been lent 45 times during the year and seen by 
12,200 persons. A total of 622 slide sets with texts on a variety of 
objects in the collection were lent 1,563 times and seen by 93,780 
viewers. 



202 A]SrNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

This year the Extension Service readied approximately 151,980 
viewers. Last year's estimated total was 67,480. 

LIBRARY 

During the year the library, under the supervision of Miss Euth 
E. Carlson, acquisitioned 827 books and 655 pamphlets; 266 books, 
40 pamphlets, 45 subscriptions to periodicals, and 2,178 photographs 
were purchased from private funds ; Government funds were used to 
purchase 16 books and 24 subscriptions to periodica'is, and for the 
binding of 114 volumes of periodicals. Gifts to the library included 
460 books, and 407 pamphlets. The library acquired through exchange 
85 books, 208 pamphlets, 1,572 periodicals, and 180 photographs. 

The library cataloged and classified 1,343 publications, recorded 
2,497 periodicals, filed 5,570 catalog cards, routed charges for 7,169 
periodicals, and filed 3,012 book charges. This year the library sold 
213 duplicate books, and 578 periodicals were sent to the U.S. Book 
Exchange. The library borrowed 1,409 books on interlibrary loan, 
1,287 of these from the Library of Congress. 

The library is the depository for black-and-white photographs of 
works of art in the Gallery's collections. These are maintained for 
use in research by the staff, for exchange with other institutions, and 
for sale to the public. Approximately 8,191 photographs were stocked 
in the library during the year and 1,452 orders for 6,407 photograplis 
were filled. There were 307 permits for reproduction of 767 subjects 
processed in the Library. 

INDEX OF AMERICAN DESIGN 

The work of the Index of American Design during the year was 
carried on under the direction of Dr. Grose Evans, curator. In all, 
55 sets of color slides (2,750 slides) were circulated throughout the 
United States. The photographic files were increased by 51 negatives 
and 231 prints, and these photographs were used for exliibits as well 
as for study and to fill requests for publication. Twenty-seven permits 
to reproduce 121 subjects were issued. Approximately 429 visitors 
used Index material for purposes of research, publication, and design. 

The curator continued to participate in the orientation program of 
the U.S.I.A. personnel, and also delivered lectures to club and school 
groups. Expert opinions were rendered to 10 persons. He also at- 
tended sessions of the Williamsburg Forum and the Alexandria 
Forum, and traveled to New England and three other cities to study 
American architecture and furnishings. In addition, Dr. Evans has 
been conducting a course for George Washington University, "The 
Story of Painting," on television, WTOP, since June 12, 1961, cover- 
ing painting from the Cave Age to the present. The lectures are 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 203 

divided into 45 sessions of one-lialf an hour, presented Monday, 
Wednesday, and Friday at 6 :30 a.m. 

MAINTENANCE OF THE BUILDING AND GROUNDS 

The Gallery building, the mechanical equipment, and the grounds 
have been maintained at the established standards throughout the 
year. 

The renewal program of all solid portions of the roof was 
completed. 

The Phantasia marble borders in the East and West Garden Courts, 
which had raised and broken, were removed and replaced with a 
domestic marble, "Compania Rose." This does not require reinforce- 
ment by steel rods which were the primary cause of the failure of 
the Phantasia marble. 

One of the elevators in the north lobby was converted from manual 
to automatic. 

The Gallery greenliouse was operated to full capacity in providing 
flowering plants for the decoration of the Gallery throughout the 
year. 

Fourteen hundred Gallery-grown landscape-size azaleas were re- 
planted in redesigned beds on the grounds as substitutes for over- 
grown and nematode-infested small-leaf hollies and euonymous. The 
azaleas are effective as foliage plants throughout the year and give the 
landscaping additional color in spring and early simmier. 

Spreading Japanese yews were substituted for the nematode- 
damaged, small-leaf hollies on the south side of the building. 

The experimental planting of various zoysia grasses continued in 
the Madison Drive and Seventh Street parkings and other exposed 
lawn areas. 

LECTOUR 

The Gallery's electronic guide system, Lectour, continued to be an 
effective tool for art education purposes. During the fiscal year 1961 
Lectour was available in 20 different exhibition areas and was used by 
74,487 visitors. It has been installed in 10 additional galleiy rooms 
and broadcasts will be available to the public during the ensuing fiscal 
year. 

Lectour broadcasts were prepared for special exhibitions of Civil 
War paintings, Italian drawings, and Chinese art treasures. 

OTHER ACTIVITIES 

Thirty-seven Sunday evening concerts were given in the East Gar- 
den Court. The National Gallery orchestra conducted by Richard 
Bales played 10 of these concerts. Two of the 10 concerts were made 
possible by the Music Performance Trust Fmid of the American 
Federation of Musicians. In addition, a string orchestra conducted 



204 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

by Kichard Bales furnished music during the opening of the new Print 
Room and the Widener Rooms on October 8, 1960, and at the open- 
ing of the Civil War Exhibition on January 7, 1961. The concert on 
Sunday evening, October 23, 1960, was dedicated to United Nations 
Day and four Sunday evening concerts during May 1961 were devoted 
to the National Gallery of Art's 18th American Music Festival. All 
concerts were broadcast in their entirety in stereophonic sound by 
station WGMS, AM and FM. Intermission talks during these broad- 
casts were given by members of the Gallery's Educational 
Office. 

During the year 8,059 copies of 16 press releases were approved 
and issued in connection with the various exhibitions and Gallery 
activities. A total of 138 permits to copy and 81 photographic permits 
were issued. 

In response to requests 2,275 copies of the pamphlet "A Cordial Invi- 
tation from the Director," and 1,650 copies of the Gallery's Informa- 
tion Booklet were sent to members of the House and Senate for 
distribution to their constituents; and 26,225 copies of the pamphlet 
"A Cordial Invitation from the Director," and 2,655 copies of the 
Information Booklet were sent to various organizations holding 
conventions in Washington. 

A total of 95 publications on the Gallery's collections and exhibi- 
tions were sent to various museums in accordance with the Exchange 
Program. 

Henry B. Beville, the Gallery's photographer, and his staff proc- 
essed 22,124 prints, 17,142 color slides, 570 black-and-white slides, 
3,510 negatives, 558 color transparencies, 146 sets of color separation 
negatives, 5 infrared photographs, and 3 ultraviolet photographs 
during the fiscal year. 

AUDIT OF PRIVATE FUNDS OF THE GALLERY 

An audit of the private funds of the Gallery will be made for the 
fiscal year ended June 30, 1961, by Price Waterhouse & Co., public 
accountants, and the certificate of that company on its examination 
of the accounting records maintained for such funds will be forwarded 
to the Gallery. 

Respectfully submitted, 

Huntington Cairns, Secretary. 
Dr. Leonard Carmichael, 
Secretary^ Smithsonian Institution, 



Report on the Library 

Sir : I have the honor to submit the following report on the activ- 
ities of the Smithsonian library for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1961 : 

As in the past the emphasis of the library has been on the providing 
of the literature and library services necessary for the promotion of 
the Smithsonian's various programs. 

The number of items received by the library during the year was 
67,275, including books, journals, pamphlets, microfilms, maps, photo- 
stats, and atlases. Of this total, 2,178 books were purchased, and 
subscriptions were placed for 675 scientific and technical journals. 
The balance of the materials came by exchange and gifts. The li- 
brary's active exchange program, on a worldwide basis, continued to 
supply the journals, proceedings, and memoirs of scientific and learned 
societies which form the backbone of many of the library's collections. 
New exchanges established totaled 289, and 1,867 pieces were specifi- 
cally requested to supply items missing from sets. A concentrated 
effort was made to bring the files of Russian journals up to date. 
Duplicate or ephemeral materials forwarded to other libraries 
amounted to 45,765 items including 41,159 sent to the Library of 
Congress. 

Gifts from interested donors, many of them rare or out-of-print 
items, contributed to the library's resources. Some of the outstanding 
ones include : 

A collection of 91 books and papers on pipes and smoking, from Dr. Leo Stoor, 
Cleveland, Ohio. 

The Tatler, 1709-1711 ; the Lucubrations, vols. 1-4, by Isaac Bickerstaffe, Esq., 
London, 1749, from Mrs. Edward N. Towusend, Long Island, N.Y. 

Atlas nouveau, by Sanson-Nicolas, Paris, 1692, from President John F. 
Kennedy. 

Trees, Shrubs and Woody "Vines of the Southvpest, by Robert A. "Vines. From 
the author, Texas University, Austin, Texas. 

150 catalogs of medical instruments and apparatus, donated by the S. S. White 
Dental Co., Philadelphia, Pa. 

American Heritage Picture History of the Civil War, 2 vols., donated by 
J. W. Eardesley, Washington, D.C. 

Commemorative Biographical Record of New Haven County, Connecticut, 
J. H. Beers & Co., 1902. Donated by Claude Pearce, Arlington, Va. 

Great Moments in News Photography, by John Faber. From Mr. Faber, 
Mountain Lakes, N.J. 

Photochronograph and its Application, 1S94, donated by Fr. Hayden of George- 
town College Observatory, Washington, D.C. 

The Birds of California, by W. L. Dawson, 4 vols., donated by C. U. S. Roose- 
velt, Washington, D.C. 

500 pieces of philatelic materials donated by Mrs. F. J. Shippen, Detroit, Mich. 
14 volumes on American history, from Mrs. Arnold Miles, Washington, D.C. 

205 



206 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

The catalog section cataloged 7,983 volumes, recataloged Y50 vol- 
umes, transferred 859 items, and checked in 31,443 periodicals. New 
procedures were adopted for the recording of serials in the serial 
record (formerly the periodical record). Because of more efficient 
methods of handling and processing, the recording of serials is on a 
current basis. The complete revamping of the serial record will 
result in still less time being required for checking of bibliographic 
data and for the recording of serials. This long-range project, which 
has had an excellent beginning, is one of the major steps in putting 
the library on an effective operating basis. 

In cooperation with the Library of Congress the staff checked the 
library's serial holdings, which will be recorded in the third edition 
of the Union List of Serials. This bibliographic tool of national 
importance is used constantly by our staff. 

The skilled hand binders repaired and restored 3,431 volumes of 
materials that required expert care and treatment, while 6,200 volumes 
of books and journals were prepared for binding or rebinding by a 
commercial binder. The continued program of weeding and discard- 
ing unused or duplicate materials from the collections resulted in 
10,658 items being withdrawn. 

The reference section answered a total of 32,094 reference and 
bibliographical requests, handled 2,840 pieces of correspondence that 
asked for specific types of information, and circulated 28,822 items. 
No record is kept of the circulation of books and journals assigned to 
the divisional libraries where they circulate freely within the division. 
Through interlibrary loans, 5,235 items were borrowed from other 
libraries, chiefly the Library of Congress; in addition, 935 pieces were 
lent. The facilities of the reading rooms in the main and branch 
libraries were used by 14,520 visitors, including many scholars and 
scientists. Floor plans were drawn by members of the staff for the 
library's expanded space which will ease the severely crowded stack 
and work areas. 

The book collection that serves the staff of the Museum of History 
and Technology continued on a very active basis. Progress was seen 
in the gi'owth and development of the collections and in the service 
provided. The staff answered 11,765 reference questions, replied to 
894 letters, lent 12,599 publications, and assisted 3,982 persons coming 
to the library seeking specific types of information. One of the most 
significant achievements was the organization of 2,297 trade catalogs 
according to a special cataloging and classification scheme. With the 
addition of two temporary librarj^ assistants, good progress was made 
toward shaping the collection into a live, workable library. The 
shifting of the old card catalog into a new one and the cataloging 
of the collection of books on the history of medicme were completed. 
The preparation and distribution of a bimonthly accession list has 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 



207 



fulfilled a long- felt need to inform members of the Musemn staff of 
new library acquisitions. 

The library for the Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory began 
operation on a full-time basis this past year. New equipment has 
been installed and an active acquisitions program is under way to 
supply library materials. Many problems are to be resolved before 
this library can become fully effective. 

The library staff continued to translate into English miscellaneous 
items in foreign languages which were referred to the library for 
translation. The Institution's participation in the National Science 
Foundation Russian translation program has resulted in the publish- 
ing of one volume : "Musk Deer and Deer," by K. K. Flerov. 

Members of the staff continued active membership and participation 
in the Special Libraries Association and the American Library Associ- 
ation, with representation at the annual conventions of both organiza- 
tions. The librarian continued as the Smithsonian representative on 
the U.S. Book Exchange. During the year, members of the staff 
visited the Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory library, Cam- 
bridge, Mass., the Harvard University libraries, and the Canal Zone 
Biological Area library at Barro Colorado Island. 

Librarians from other research organizations and museums both in 
the United States and in other countries visited the library, the publi- 
cations distribution section, and the International Exchange Service 
for the exchange of professional knowledge and publications. 

In spite of difficulties, the library has had a fruitful year. The ad- 
dition of temporary staff eased the flow of work in some areas. 



SUMMARIZED STATISTICS 

ACCESSIONS 



Total recorded 
volumes, 1961 



Smithsonian main library (including the Natural History- 
Museum) 

Museum of History and Technology 

Astrophysical Observatory (including Smithsonian Astro- 
physical Observatory, Cambridge, Mass.) 

Radiation and Organisms (formerly counted with the 

Astrophysical Observatory) 

Bureau of American Ethnology 

National Air Museum 

National Collection of Fine Arts 

National Zoological Park 

Total , 



340, 349 

13, 612 

1,869 

38, 891 

816 

14, 305 
4,296 



414, 138 



Unbound volumes of periodicals and reprints and separates from serial publica- 
tions, of which there are many thousands, have not been included in these totals. 



208 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

EXCHANGES 

New exchanges arranged 289 

Specially requested publications received 1,867 

CATALOGING 

Volumes cataloged 12, 763 

Catalog cards filed 59,795 

PERIODICALS 

Periodical parts entered 81, 443 

CIRCULATION 

Loans of books and periodicals 28,822 

Circulation in the divisional libraries is not counted except in the Division of 
Insects. 

BINDING AND REPAIR 

Volumes sent to the bindery 6, 200 

Volumes repaired in the library 3, 431 

Kespectfully submitted. 

Ruth E. Blanchard, Librarian. 
Dr. Leonard Carmichael, 

Secretaiy^ Smithsonian Institution. 



Report on Publications 

Sir : I have the honor to submit the following report on the publi- 
cations of the Smithsonian Institution and its branches for the year 
ended June 30, 1961 : 

The publications of the Smithsonian Institution are issued partly 
from federally appropriated funds (Smithsonian Reports and publi- 
cations of the National Museum, the Bureau of American Etlmology, 
and the Astrophysical Observatory) and partly from private endow- 
ment funds (Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections, publications of 
the Freer Gallery of Art, and some special publications). The Insti- 
tution also edits and publishes under the auspices of the Freer Gallery 
of Art the series Ars Orientalis, which appears under the joint im- 
print of the University of Michigan and the Smithsonian Institution. 
In addition, the Smithsonian publishes a guidebook, a picture pam- 
phlet, postcards and a postcard folder, a color-picture album, color 
slides, a filmstrip on Smithsonian exhibits, a coloring book for chil- 
dren, and popular publications on scientific and historical subjects 
related to its important exhibits and collections for sale to visitors. 
Through its publication program the Smithsonian endeavors to carry 
out its founder's expressed desire for the diffusion of knowledge. 

During the year the Institution published 10 Smithsonian Miscel- 
laneous Collections papers ; 1 Annual Report of the Board of Regents 
and separates of 24 articles in the General Appendix ; 1 Annual Re- 
port of the Secretary ; 4 special publications ; and reprints of 3 special 
publications and 2 popular publications. 

The U.S. National Museum issued 1 Annual Report, 4 bulletins, 1 
paper in the series Contributions from the U.S. National Herbarium, 
7 papers in the series Contributions from the Museum of History and 
Technology, and 21 Proceedings papers. 

The Bureau of American Ethnology issued 1 Annual Report and 
2 Bulletins. 

The Astrophysical Observatory issued 8 papers in the series Smith- 
sonian Contributions to Astrophysics. 

The National Collection of Fine Arts published 1 catalog, and the 
Smithsonian Traveling Exhibition Service, under the National Col- 
lection of Fine Arts, published 4 catalogs and 3 folders. 

The Freer Gallery of Art issued one brochure and volume 4 of Ars 
Orientalis. 

209 



210 Al^NUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

DISTRIBUTION 

In all, 774,444 copies of publications and miscellaneous items were 
distributed. Publications: 141 Contributions to Knowledge, 28,606 
Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections, 7,838 Aimual Report vol- 
umes and 22,795 pamphlet copies of Eeport separates, 44,307 spe- 
cial publications, 87 reports of the Harriman Alaska Expedition; 
66,722 publications of the National Museum; 29,845 publications of 
the Bureau of American Ethnology; 18,424 publications of the Na- 
tional Collection of Fine Arts; 150 publications of the Freer Gallery 
of Art;^ 15,145 publications of the Astrophysical Observatory; 384 
War Backgi'ound Studies; 1,582 reports of the American Historical 
Association; and 6,231 publications not issued by the Smithsonian 
Institution. Miscellaneous : 7 sets of North American Wild Flowers 
and 45 North American Wild Flower prints, 2 Pitcher Plant volumes, 
56,666 Guide Books, 18,663 picture pamphlets, 336,199 postcards and 
postcard folders, 19,963 color slides, 97,740 mformation leaflets, 10 
New Museum of Histoiy and Teclinology pamphlets, 443 statuettes, 
2,379 Viewmaster reels, and 1 filmstrip. 

SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS 

In this series, imder the immediate editorship of Miss Euth B. 
MacManus, there were issued 10 papers as follows : 

Volume 139 

No. 10. Water transparency observations along the east coast of North America, 
by Jerome Williams, E. R. Fenimore Johnson, and Albert C. Dyer. 181 pp., 
2 pis., 13 maps. (PubL 4391.) Oct. 2G, 1960. ($2.50.) 

Volume 140 

No. 2. Pleistocene birds In Bermuda, by Alexander Wetmore, 11 pp., 3 pis. 

( Publ. 4423. ) July 7, 1960. ( 40 cents. ) 
No. 3. Doctor Langley's paradox: Two letters suggesting the development of 

rockets, by Russell J. Parkinson. 4 pp., 3 pis. (Publ. 4424.) Aug. 31, 1960. 

(50 cents.) 
No. 4. The cephalic nervous system of the centipede Arenophilus hipuncticeps 

(Wood) (Chilopoda. Geophilomorpha, Geophilidae), by Michael A. Lorenzo. 

43 pp., 5 pis., 5 figs. (Publ. 4425.) Nov. 8, 1900. (75 cents.) 
No. 5. A revision of the Ordovician bryozoan genera Batostoma, Anaphragma, 

and Amplexopora, by Richard S. Boardman. 28 pp., 7 pis. (Publ. 4426.) 

Dec. 15, 1960. ( 75 cents. ) 

Volume 141 

The biotic associations of cockroaches, by Louis M. Roth and Edwin R. Willis. 
470 pp., 37 pis., 7 figs. (Publ. 4422) Dec. 2, 1960. ($7..50.) 



* In addition to those distributed by the Gallery itself. 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 211 

Volume 142 

No. 1, Facts and theories concerning the insect head, by R. E. Snodgrass. 66 

pp., 21 figs. (Publ. 4427.) Nov. 4, 1960. (75 cents.) 
No, 3. Some osteological features of modem lower teleostean fishes, by William 

A. Gosline. 42 pp., 8 figs., 4 diagrams. (Publ. 4458.) June 12, 1961. 

(50 cents.) 

Volume 143 

No. 1. Some locomotor mechanisms of birds, by Frank A. Hartman. 91 pp., 

7 figs. (Publ. 4460.) June 1.5, 1961. ($2.00.) 
No. 2. Sixteen-day weather forecasts from satellite observations, by C. G. Abbot. 

6 pp. (Publ. 4462.) May 26, 1961. (25 cents.) 

SMITHSONIAN ANNUAL REPORTS 

REPORT FOR 1959 

The complete volume of the Annual Keport of the Board of 
Regents for 1959 was received from the printer on December 22, 1960 : 

Annual Report of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution showing 
the operations, expenditures, and condition of the Institution for the year ended 
June 30, 1959. x+ 693 pp., 86 pis., 125 figs., 1 map. (Publ. 4392. ) 

The general appendix contained the following papers (Publ. 
4393-4416) : 

The transuranium elements, by Glenn T. Seaborg. 

The IGY in retrospect, by Elliott B. Roberts. 

Astronomy from artificial satellites, by Leo Goldberg. 

Solar radio astronomy, by Alan MaxwelL 

The new uses of the abstract, by George A. W. Boehm. 

Mirages, by James H. Gordon. 

Lessons from the history of flight, by Grover Loening. 

The use of oceanography, by G. E. R. Deacon. 

Ambergris — Neptune's treasure, by C. P. Idyll. 

The rhythmic nature of animals and plants, by Frank A. Brown, Jr. 

The survival of animals in hot deserts, by E. B. Edney. 

Amphibians, pioneers of terrestrial breeding habits, by CJoleman J. Goin. 

A study of saturniid moths in the Canal Zone Biological Area, by A. D. Blest. 

Evolution of knowledge concerning the roundworm Ascaris lumbricoides, by 

Benjamin Schwartz. 
The protection of fauna in the U.S.S.R., by G. P. Dementiev. 
Reconstructing the ancestor of corn, by Paul C. Mangelsdorf . 
The need to classify, by Roger L. Batten. 
Current advances and concepts in virology, by stafC members of Lilly Research 

Laboratories. 
In search of a home: From the Mutiny to Pitcaim Island (1789-1790), by 

H. E. Maude. 
The Chinook sign of freedom : A study of the skull of the famous chief Com- 

comly, by T. D. Stewart. 
The Muldbjerg dwelling place: An early Neolithic archeological site in the 

Aamosen Bog, West Zealand, Denmark, by J. Troels-Smith. 
Three adult Neanderthal skeletons from Shanidar Cave, northern Iraq, by Ralph 

S. Solecki. 
Sumerian technology, by Ida Bobnla. 
Brandywine : An early flour-milling center, by Peter C. Welsh. 



212 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

REPORT FOR 1960 

The Report of the Secretary, which will form part of the Annual 
Report of the Board of Regents, was issued January 15, 1961 : 

Report of the Secretary and financial report of the Executive Committee of the 

Board of Regents for the year ended June 30, 1960. x+225 pp., 10 pis., 1 map. 

(Publ. 4429.) 

SPECIAL PUBLICATIONS 
Lichen handbook, by Mason E. Hale. 178 pp., 20 pis., 58 figs. (Publ. 4434.) 

[June] 1961. ($4.00.) 
The Victorian American. Lithographs from the Harry T. Peters America on 

Stone collection, by Anthony N. B. Garvan and Peter C. Welsh, 30 pp., 21 pis. 

(Publ. 4466.) [May] 1961. ($1.00.) 
Uniform regulations for the Army of the United States (1861), by Edgar M. 

HowelL 61 pp., incL 36 pis. (PubL 4467.) [June] 1961. ($1.00.) 

REPRINTS 
The Smithsonian Institution. (Revised.) 49 pp., illustr. (PubL 4145.) [April] 

1961. (50 cents.) 
Masters of the air. (Revised.) 31 pp., illustr. (Publ. 4183.) [June] 1961. 

(50 cents.) 
The world of the dinosaurs, by David H. Dunkle. 22 pp., illustr. (PubL 4296.) 

[November] 1960, and [April] 1961. (50 cents.) 
Anthropology as a career, by William C. Sturtevant. (Revised.) 20 pp. 

(PubL 4343.) [October] 1960, and [January] 1961. (20 cents.) 
Brief guide to the Smithsonian Institution. (Revised.) 82 pp., illustr. [March] 

1961. (25 cents.) 
Trees and shrubs of Mexico (including reprints of Parts 1-3 and 5 of volume 

25, Contributions from the United States National Herbarium), In 2 parts. 

1 : pp. xviii+1-170, xxxvii+171-515, xxviii+ 517-848. 2 : pp. 1313-1721. (PubL 

4461.) Apr. 28, 1961. ($20.00.) 

PUBLICATIONS OF THE UNITED STATES NATIONAL MUSEUM 

The editorial work of the National Museum continued during the 
year under the immediate direction of John S. Lea, assistant chief of 
the division. The following publications were issued : 

REPORT 

The United States National Museum annual report for the year ended June 30, 
1960. Pp. vi+175, illus., January 13, 1961. 

BULLETINS 

219. The national watercraft collection, by Howard I. Chapelle. Pp. xi-f 327, 
204 figs. Nov. 23, 1960. 

220. Type specimens of reptiles and amphibians in the U.S. National Museum, 
by Doria M. Cochran. Pp. xv+291. Apr. 4, 1961. 

221. Type specimens of birds in the United States National Museum, by Herbert 
G. Deignan. Pp. x+718. Mar. 17, 1961. 

223. The parasitic weaverbirds, by Herbert Friedmann. Pp. viii+196, 3 figs., 

16 pis. (4 color) , Dec. 30, 1960. 
225. Contributions from the Museum of History and Technology, Papers 12-16, 

by members of the staff and others : 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 213 

Paper 12. Hermann StiefEel, soldier-artist of the West, by Edgar M. HowelL 

Pp. 1-16, 11 flgs. July 8, 1960. 
Paper 13. North Devon pottery and its export to America in the 17th cen- 
tury, by C. Malcolm Watkins. Pp. 17-60, 36 flgs. (1 color). Dec. 30, 1960. 
Paper 14. Tea drinking in 18th-century America : Its etiquette and equipage, 

by Rodris Roth. Pp. 61-91, 22 figs., 1 color pi. Jan. 30, 1961. 
Paper 15. Italian harpsichord-building in the 16th and 17th centuries, by 

John D. Shortridge. Pp. 93-107, 12 flgs. Dec. 15, 1960. 
Paper 16. Drug supplies in the American Revolution, by George B. Grif- 

fenhagen. Pp. 109-133, 4 flgs. Mar. 9, 1961. 
228. Contributions from the Museum of History and Technology, Papers 19 
and 20, by members of the staff and others. 
Paper 19. Elevator systems of the Eiffel Tower, 1889, by Robert M. Vogel. 

Pp. 1-40, 41 flgs. Feb. 21, 1961. 
Paper 20. John Ericsson and the age of caloric, by Eugene S. Ferguson. 

Pp. 41-60, 11 flgs. Jan. 25, 1961. 

CONTRIBUTIONS FROM THE NATIONAL HERBARIUM 

Volume S5 

Part 2. A taxonomic revision of the Humiriaceae, by Jos6 Cuatrecasas. Pp. 
iii-l-25-214, 38 figs., 24 pis. Apr. 14, 1961. 

PROCEEDINGS 

Volume 110 
Title page, table of contents, and index. Pp. i-iii, 599-619, August 19, 1960. 

Volume 111 

No. 3429. A revision of the genus Opcodes Latreille with particular reference 
to species of the Western Hemisphere, by Evert I. Schlinger. Pp. 227-336, 
9 figs., 13 pis. Sept. 9, 1960. 

No. 3430. Cydnidae of the Western Hemisphere, by Richard C. Froeschner. 
Pp. 337-680, 13 pis. Oct. 25, 1960. 

Title page, table of contents, and index. Pp. i-iv, 681-692. Mar. 15, 1961. 

Volume 112 

No. 3431. Lace-bug genera of the world (Hemiptera: Tingidae), by Carl J. 

Drake and Florence A. Ruhoff. Pp. 1-105, 5 figs., 9 pis. July 7, 1960. 
No. 3436. Revision of the milliped genus Cherokia (Polydesmida : Xystodes- 

midae), by Richard L. Hoffman. Pp. 227-264, 7 figs., 1 pi. Oct. 12, 1960. 
No. 3437. Reexamination of species of Protura described by H. E. Ewing, by 

F. Bonet and S. L. Tuxen. Pp. 265-305, 103 flgs. Oct. 13, 1960. 
No. 3438. Studies in neotropical Mallophaga, XVII: A new family (Troch- 

iliphagidae) and a new genus of the lice of hummingbirds, by M. A. Carriker, 

Jr. Pp. 307-342, 12 figs. Oct. 13, 1960. 
No. 3439. The pelagic amphipod genus Parathemisto (Hyperiidea: Hyperiidae) 

in the North Paeiflc and adjacent Arctic Ocean, by Thomas E. Bowman. 

Pp. 343-392, 19 flgs. Oct. 13, 1960. 
No. 3440. Assassin bugs of the genus Ohilianella in the Americas (Hemiptera, 

Reduviidae, Emesinae), by J. Maldonado-Capriles. Pp. 393-450, 146 figs. 

Sept. 9, 1960. 



214 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

No. 3441. Welcome Mound and the effigy pipes of the Adena people, by Frank 

M. Setzler. Pp. 451-458, 1 fig., 4 pis. Sept. 9, 1960. 
No. 3442. Descriptions of new bats from Panama, by Charles O. Handley, Jr. 

Pp. 459^79. Oct. 6, 1960. 
No. 3443. Cultural sequences in Hokkaido, Japan, by Lt. Col. Howard A. 

MacCord. Pp. 481-503, 5 figs., 14 pis. Dec. 5, 1960. 
No. 3444. Noctuid moths of the Scopulepes group of Eemeroplanis Hiibner, 

by E. L. Todd. Pp. 505-515, 6 figs., 1 pi. Sept. 13, 1960. 
No. 3445. Lithoglyptes spinatus, a burrowing barnacle from Jamaica, by Jack 

T. Tomlinson and William A. Newman. Pp. 517-526, 10 figs. Dec. 20, 1960. 
No. 3446. Notes on Mysidacean crustaceans of the genus Lophogaster in the 

U.S. National Museum, by O. S. TattersaU. Pp. 527-547, 7 figs. Dec. 20, 1960. 
No. 3447. The fairy shrimp BracJiinecta campestris from Northwestern United 

States (Crustacea: Phyllopoda), by James E. Lynch. Pp. 549-561, 5 figs. 

Dec. 5, 1960. 
No. 3448. Stargazer fishes from the western North Atlantic (family Uranos- 

copidae), by Frederick H. Berry and William W. Anderson. Pp. 563-586, 

1 fig., 4 pis. Apr. 12, 1961. 

Volume 113 

No. 3450. Paracongcr, a new genus with three new species of eels (family 

Congridae), by Robert H. Kanazawa. Pp. 1-14, 3 tigs., 2 pis. Jan. 26, 1961, 
No. 3451. Revision of the milliped genus Deltotaria (Polydesmida: Xystodes- 

midae) , by Richard L. Hoffman. Pp. 15-35, 4 figs. Mar. 17, 1961. 
No. 3452. Four new species of Pseudocyclops (Copepoda: Calanoida), from 

Puerto Rico, by Thomas E. Bowman and Juan G. Gonzalez. Pp. 37-59, 11 

figs. Mar. 20, 1961. 

PUBLICATIONS OF THE BUREAU OF AMERICAN ETHNOLOGY 

The editorial work of the Bureau continued under the immediate 
direction of Mrs. Eloise B. Edelen. The following publications were 
issued during the year : 

ANNUAL REPORT 

Seventy-seventh Annual Report of the Bureau of American Ethnology, 1959-60. 
ii+35 pp., 2 pis. 1961. 

BULLLETINS 

Bulletin 176. River Basin Surveys Papers, Nos. 15-20, Frank H. H. Roberts, Jr., 
editor, lx+337 pp., 65 pis., 25 figs. 1960. 

No. 15. Historic sites archeology on the Upper Missouri, by Merrill J. 
Mattes. 

No. 16. Historic sites archeology in the Fort Randall Reservoir, South 
Dakota, by John E. Mills. 

No. 17. The excavation and investigation of Fort Lookout Trading Post II 
(39LM57) in the Fort Randall Reservoir, South Dakota, by Carl F. Miller. 

No. 18. Fort Pierre II (39ST217), a historic trading post in the Oahe Dam 
area. South Dakota, by G. Hubert Smith. 

No. 19. Archeological investigations at the site of Fort Stevenson (32ML1), 
Garrison Reservoir, North Dakota, by G. Hubert Smith. With an intro- 
duction by Robert L. Stephenson and an appendix by Carlyle S. Smith. 

No. 20. The archeology of a small trading post (Kipp's Post, 32MN1) in 
the Garrison Reservoir, North Dakota, by Alan R. Woolworth and W. 
Raymond Wood. 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 215 

Bulletin 180. Symposium on Cherokee and Iroquois culture, edited by William 
N. Fenton and John Gulick. vi+292 pp. 1961. 
No. 1. Foreword by the editors. 

No. 2. Iroquois-Cherokee linguistic relations, by Floyd G. Lounsbury. 
No. 3. Comment on Floyd G. Lounsbiiry's "Iroquois-Cherokee Lingtdstic 

Relations," by Mary R. Haas. 
No. 4. Iroquois archeology and settlement patterns, by William A. Ritchie. 
No. 5. First comment on William A. Ritchie's "Iroquois Archeology and 

Settlement Patterns," by William H. Sears. 
No. 6. Second comment on William A. Ritchie's "Iroquois Archeology and 

Settlement Patterns," by Douglas S. Byers. 
No. 7. Cherokee archeology, by Joffre L. Coe. 
No. 8. Comment on Joffre L. Coe's "Cherokee Archeology," by Charles H. 

Fairbanks. 
No. 9. Eastei'n Woodlands community typology and acculturation, by John 

Witthoft. 
No. 10. Comment on John Witthoft's "Eastern Woodlands Community 

Typology and Acculturation," by John M. Goggin. 
No. 11. Cherokee economic cooperatives: the Gadugi, by Raymond D. 

Fogelson and Paul Kutsche. 
No. 12. The rise of the Cherokee state as an instance in a class: The 

"Mesopotamian" career to statehood, by Fred O. Gearing. 
No. 13. Comment on Fred O. Gearing's "The Rise of the Cherokee State 

as an Instance in a Class : The 'Mesopotamian' Career to Statehood," by 

Annemarie Shimony. 
No. 14. Cultural composition of the Handsome Lake Religion, by Anthony 

F. C. WaUace. 
No. 15. Comment on Anthony F. C. Wallace's "Cultural Composition of 

the Handsome Lake Religion," by Wallace L. Chafe. 
No. 16. The Redbird Smith Movement, by Robert K. Thomas. 
No. 17. Comment on Robert K. Thomas's "The Redbird Smith Movement," 

by Fred W. Voget, 
No. 18. Effects of environment on Cherokee-Iroquois ceremonialism, music, 

and dance, by Gertrude P. Kurath. 
No. 19. Comment on Gertrude P. Kurath's "Effects of Environment on 

Cherokee-Iroquois Ceremonialism, Music, and Dance," by William C. 

Sturtevant. 
No. 20. The Iroquois fortunetellers and their conservative influence, by 

Annemarie Shimony. 
No. 21. Change, persistence, and accommodation in Cherokee medico-magical 

beliefs, by Raymond D. Fogelson. 
No. 22. Some observations on the persistence of aboriginal Cherokee 

personality traits, by Charles H. Holzinger. 
No. 23. First comment on Charles H. Holzinger's "Some Observations on 

the Persistence of Aboriginal Cherokee Personality Traits," by David 

Landy. 
No. 24. Second comment on Charles H. Holzinger's "Some Observations 

on the Persistence of Aboriginal Cherokee Personality Traits, by John 

GuMck. 
No. 25. Iroquoian culture history: A general evaluation, by William N. 

Fenton. 



625325—62 15 



216 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

PUBLICATIONS OF THE ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY 
The editorial work of the Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory 
continued under the immediate direction of Ernest E. Biebighauser. 
The year's publications in the series Smithsonian Contributions to 
Astrophysics are as follows : 

Volume 4 

No. 2. Orbital elements of photographic meteors, by Richard E. McCrosky 

and Annette Poson. Pp. 15-84, 19 figs. 1961. 
No. 3. Orbital elements of meteors, by Gerald S. Hawkins and Richard B. 

Southworth. Pp. 85-95. 1961. 
No. 4. Precision orbits of 413 photographic meteors, by Luigi G. Jacchia and 

Fred L. Whipple. Pp. 97-129, 6 figs. 1961. 

Volume 5 

No. 4. Observations of simulated meteors, by Richard E. McCrosky. Pp. 29-37, 

3 figs. 1961. 
No. 5. On the motion of satellites with critical inclination : Libra tion of an earth 

satellite wuth critical inclination, by Yusuke Hagihara, pp. 39-51, 3 figs. ; Motion 

of a particle with critical inclination in the gravitational field of a spheroid, by 

Yoshihide Kozai, pp. 53-58, 1 fig. 1961. 
No. 6. Gaps in the distribution of asteroids, by Yusuke Hagihara. Pp. 59-67, 

2 figs. 1961. 
No. 7. Major flares and geomagnetic activity, by Barbara Bell. Pp. 69-83, 

13 figs. 1961. 
No. 8. An annotated bibliography of interplanetary dust, by Paul W. Hodge, 

Frances W. Wright, and Dorrit Hoffleit. Pp. 85-111. 1961. 

PUBLICATIONS OF THE NATIONAL COLLECTION OF FINE ARTS 

Art and archeology of Viet Nam, Asian crossroad of cultures. 63 pp., illustr. 

1960. (PubL 4430.) ($1.00.) 
Italian drawings. 78 pp., 42 ills. 1960. 

Irish architecture of the Georgian period. 17 pp., illustr. 1960. 
The world of Werner Bischof . 12 pp., 48 ills. 1961. 

Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibitions. 1961-1962 catalog. 40 pp. 
Three folders: Sardinian crafts, New exhibitions, and Architectural exhibitions. 

PUBLICATIONS OF THE FREER GALLERY OF ART 

Ars Orientalis, voL IV. (17 articles by various authors, 5 notes, 21 book re- 
views, 2 obituaries, 1 bibliography.) 462 pp., 143 pis., 61 text figs. [June] 
1961. 

Second presentation of the Charles Lang Freer Medal. (A brochure issued in 
connection with the presentation of the medal to Prof. Ernst Kiihnel, May 3, 
1961.) 

REPORTS OF THE AMERICAN HISTORICAL ASSOCIATION 

The annual reports of the American Historical Association are 
transmitted by the Association to the Secretary of the Smithsonian 
Institution and are by him communicated to Congress, as provided in 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 217 

the act of incorporation of the Association. The following report 
was issued during the year : 

Annual Report of the American Historical Association for 1959. Vol. 1. Pro- 
ceedings. 19G0. 

REPORT OF THE NATIONAL SOCIETY, DAUGHTERS OF THE 
AMERICAN REVOLUTION 

In accordance with law, the manuscript of the sixty-third annual 
report of the National Society, Daughters of the American Revolu- 
tion, was transmitted to Congress on March 13, 1961. 

OTHER ACTIVITIES 

The chief of the division continued to represent the Smithsonian 
Institution on the board of trustees of the Greater Washington Edu- 
cational Television Association, Inc., of which the Institution is a 
member. He also represented the Institution at the annual meeting 
of the Association of American University Presses held early in May 
at Oklahoma City and Norman, Okla. 

Paul H, Oehser, 
Chief, Editorial and Publications Division. 
Dr. Leonard Carmichael, 
Secretary, Smithsonian Institution. 



Other Activities 

LECTURES 

In 1931 the Institution received a bequest from James Arthur, of 
New York City, a part of the income from which was to be used to 
endow an annual lecture on some aspect of the sun. The 27th Arthur 
lecture was delivered in the auditorium of the Natural History Build- 
ing on the evening of February 2, 1961, by Dr. Herbert Friedman, 
Superintendent of the Atmosphere and Astrophysics Division of the 
U.S. Naval Kesearch Laboratory. This lecture will be published in 
full in the general appendix of the Annual Report of the Board of 
Regents of the Smithsonian Institution for 1961. 

Dr. Erik Sjoqvist, of the Department of Art and Archaeology of 
Princeton University, delivered a lecture on "Morgantina, an Un- 
known Greek City in Sicily" in the auditorium of the Natural History 
Building on the evening of January 24, 1961. This was sponsored 
jointly by the Smithsonian and the Archaeological Institute of 
America. 

Alfred Friendly, managmg editor of the Washington Post, lectured 
on "Bushman Paintings" in the Freer Gallery of Art auditorium on 
the evening of May 10, 1961. 

Several lectures were sponsored by the Freer Gallery of Art and 
the National Gallery of Art. These are listed in the reports of these 
bureaus. 

Many other lectures on technical subjects were given at the In- 
stitution during the year. 

SCIENCE INFORMATION EXCHANGE 

The Science Information Exchange, an agency operated within the 
Smithsonian Institution, is a clearinghouse for current scientific re- 
search in process. The basic purpose of the Exchange is to foster 
and facilitate effective planning and management of scientific research 
activities supported by United States agencies and institutions by pro- 
moting the exchange among participating agencies of administrative 
data about all types of current research. Thus the Exchange provides 
a means of communication concerning on-going research which pre- 
cedes publication of research findings, and which prevents unlmowing 
duplication. 

Abstracts of research-in-process have been for some years regis- 
tered by investigators engaged in biological, medical, and psycho- 
218 



SECRETARY'S REPORT 219 

logical research and in limited aspects of research in the social 
sciences. Through an extensive system of subject indexing, these 
abstracts are provided upon request and without charge to research 
institutions. For granting agencies and properly constituted com- 
mittees it prepares extensive surveys of research in broad areas. 

In September 1960 the Governing Board of the Bio-Sciences Infor- 
mation Exchange (the name of the agency as originally organized in 
1950) was reconstituted as the Governing Board, Science Information 
Exchange, to reflect the inclusion of the physical sciences in the scope 
of the operation. Dr. Orr E. Reynolds, of the Department of Defense, 
was elected chairman. An ad hoc committee for the physical sciences 
was established under the chairaianship of Dr. Urner Liddel, and 
reciTiitment for professional staff in the physical sciences began. 

The volume of registration and of use of the Exchange in the field 
of the life sciences has continued to grow, and it is believed that 
similar volume and use for the physical sciences will develop. It is 
expected that the actual scope of coverage and service, by subject 
matter and by types of research projects, will evolve and expand 
gradually. 

A systems survey by Booz, Allen, and Hamilton was begim in No- 
vember 1960 and completed in May 1961. Consultant services by the 
Computer Usage Corporation have assisted in the orderly conversion 
to magnetic tape and in formulating plans for expanded activities. 

An associate director for the life sciences, Dr. David Hersey, was 
selected but will not enter on duty until the next fiscal year. 

SMITHSONIAN MUSEUM SERVICE 

The Smithsonian Museum Service, through appropriate educational 
media, interprets to museum visitors and to the general public the 
objects, specimens, and exhibits in the several Smithsonian museums 
and develops interpretative and educational material relating to the 
work of the Institution in the fields of science, natural history, art, 
and history. The Museum Service also cooperates with the volunteer 
docents of the Junior League of Washington, D.C. A more complete 
report of this activity, directed by G. Carroll Lindsay, curator, is 
carried in the Eeport of the United States National Museum. 

The Museum Service provided assistance to professional and sub- 
professional groups and individuals visiting the museums of the In- 
stitution or planning to do so. Assistance in the form of lectures, 
answers to inquiries, and special tours of certain museum areas was 
rendered to college and university groups visiting the Institution and 
to other groups and individuals from the United States and abroad, 
%dsiting or planning to visit the Smithsonian in a professional capac- 
ity. Arrangements were made through the IMuseum Service for 
Smithsonian participation in the Workshop on Community Resources 



220 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

sponsored by the University of Maryland. Through the facilities of 
this workshop, a five-day program outlining the history of the Insti- 
tution and the work of the various Smithsonian museum and research 
bureaus was presented to 40 graduate students from the University 
of Maryland. This workshop has, since its inception in 1958, provided 
an opportunity for more than 150 local school teachers and university 
faculty members to become acquainted with cultural resources of the 
Institution of value in school curricula. 

The Museum Service cooperated with the Greater Washington Ed- 
ucational Television Association in the preparation of a half-hour 
educational television presentation based on the early musical instru- 
ment collection of the Smithsonian. 

Through the Museum Service distribution of certain duplicate spec- 
imens and objects from the United States National Museum was made 
to the Overbrook School for the Blind for use in that school's training 
of blind children. Special "touch" exhibits and demonstrations were 
arranged for visiting groups of children from the Columbia Light- 
house for the Blind. 

The program for visitor orientation to Smithsonian museums and 
exhibits was continued through the installation of another elec- 
tronically controlled slide lecture device in the Lobby of the Museum 
of Natural History. Floor diagrams showing exhibit locations and 
listings of exhibits and location of each were installed in the Museum 
of Natural History. 

Arrangements for various Smithsonian public functions and events 
including lectures, films, and the opening of new halls and exhibits 
were made by the Museum Service. More complete information about 
these activities will be found under appropriate headings elsewhere in 
the Annual Report of the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution. 
Mailing lists for announcements of these events were maintained and 
kept current. The Smithsonian Calendar of Events^ a listing of spe- 
cial events of the Institution was prepared and distributed monthly. 



Report of the Executive Committee of the 
Board of Regents of the Smithsonian 
Institution 

For the Year Ended June 30, 1961 

To the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution: 

Your executive committee respectfully submits the following report 
in relation to the funds of the Smithsonian Institution, together with 
a statement of the appropriations by Congress for the Government 
bureaus in the administrative charge of the Institution. 

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION 

PARENT FUND 

The original bequest of James Smithson was £10-1,960 8s 6d — 
$508,318.46. Refunds of money expended in prosecution of the claim, 
freight, insurance, and other incidental expenses, together with pay- 
ment into the fund of the sum of £5,015, which had been withheld 
during the lifetime of Madame cle la Batut, brought the fund to 
the amount of $550,000. 

The gift of James Smithson was "lent to the United States Treas- 
ury, at 6 per centum per annum interest" (20 USC. 54) and by the 
Act of March 12, 1894 (20 USC. 55) the Secretary of the Treasury 
was "authorized to receive into the Treasury, on the same terms as 
the original bequest of James Smithson, such sums as the Regents may, 
from time to time see fit to deposit, not exceeding, with the original 
bequest the sum of $1,000,000." 

The maximum of $1,000,000 which the Smithsonian Institution was 
authorized to deposit in the Treasury of the United States was 
reached on January 11, 1917 by the deposit of $2,000. 

Under the above authority the amounts shown below are deposited 
in the United States Treasury and draw 6 percent interest : 

Unrestncted funds Income 1981 

James Smithson $727, 640 $43, 658. 40 

Avery 14,000 840.00 

Habel 500 30.00 

Hamilton 2,500 150.00 

Hodgkins (General) 116,000 6,960.00 

Poore 26,670 1,600.20 

Rhees 590 35.40 

Sanford 1,100 66.00 



Total--- _ 889,000 53,340.00 

221 



222 ANISTQAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

Restricted funds Income 1961 

Hodgkins (Specific)... $100,000 $6,000.00 

Reid 11,000 660.00 

Total 111,000 6,660.00 

Grand total 1,000,000 60,000.00 

In addition to the $1,000,000 deposited in the Treasury of the 
United States there has been accumulated from income and bequests 
the sum of $3,871,350.59 which has been invested. Of this sum, $3,734,- 
473.88 is carried on the books of the Institution as the Consolidated 
Fund, a policy approved by the Kegents at their meeting on Decem- 
ber 14, 1916. The balance is made up of several small funds. 

CONSOLIDATED FUND 

(Income for the unrestricted use of the Institution) 



Fund 



Investment 1961 



Income 1801 



Abbott, W. L., Special 

* Avery, Robert S., and Lydia 

Gifts, royalties, gain on sale of securities 

Hachenberg, George P. and Caroline 

*Hamilton, James 

Hart, Gustavus E 

Henry, Caroline 

Henry, Joseph and Harriet A 

♦Hodgkins, Thomas G. (General) 

Morrow, Dwight W 

Olmsted, Helen A 

*Poore, Lucy T, and George W 

Porter, Henry Kirke 

♦Rhees, William Jones 

*Sanford, George H 

*Smithson, James 

Taggart, Gansen 

Witherspoon, Thomas A 

Total 



$21, 

56, 

395, 

5, 



1, 

70, 

43, 

110, 

1, 

233, 

410, 

1, 
• 1, 

184, 



344. 95 
590. 75 
583. 11 
761. 97 
578. 35 
697. 84 
732. 75 
231. 84 
399. 98 
789. 10 
148. 62 
177. 42 
317. 07 
677. 83 
275. 36 
749. 06 
612. 44 
890. 65 



1, 640, 459. 09 



$1, 100. 60 

2, 917. 95 

20, 397. 09 
297. 09 

29.84 
36.00 
89.37 

3, 621. 31 
2, 237. 79 
5, 712. 49 

59.21 
12,023. 11 

21, 156. 85 

34.94 
65.74 
90. 16 
22. 14 
9, 533. 36 



79, 425. 04 



»Iu addition to funds deposited in the United States Treasury. 

CONSOLIDATED FUND 

(Income restricted to specific use) 



Fund 



Investment 1061 



Income 1961 



Abbott, William L., for investigations in 
biology 

Armstrong, Edwin James, for use of Depart- 
ment of Invertebrate Paleontology when 
principal amounts to $5,000.00 



$149, 362. 74 



1,710.21 



$7, 675. 50 



ro. 78 



REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE 
CONSOLIDATED FUND— Continued 



223 



Fund 



Investment 1961 


Income 1961 


$57, 298. 65 


$2, 954. 43 


71, 779. 58 


3, 701. 12 


34, 495. 02 


1, 778. 64 


41, 092. 28 


2, 118. 80 


1, 432. 35 


73.86 


54, 796. 73 


2, 825. 45 


17, 958. 19 


925. 96 


40, 345. 65 


2, 080. 30 


61, 682. 94 


3, 180. 48 


15, 572. 70 


802. 97 


12, 736. 57 


656. 74 


26.69 


.48 


9, 415. 97 


485. 49 


2, 260. 72 


116. 55 


68, 539. 55 


3, 360. 75 


27, 423. 90 


1, 414. 05 


124, 864. 24 


6, 438. 27 


777. 91 


40.09 


28, 101. 35 


1, 448. 94 


28, 939. 20 


1, 492. 16 


31, 861. 40 


1, 642. 86 



Arthur, James, for investigations and study of 
the sun and annual lecture on same 

Bacon, Virginia Purdy, for traveling scholar- 
ship to investigate fauna of countries other 
than the United States 

Baird, Lucy H., for creating a memorial to 
Secretary Baird 

Barney, Alice Pike, for collection of paintings 
and pastels and for encouragement of Amer- 
ican artistic endeavor 

Barstow, Frederick D., for purchase of animals 
for Zoological Park 

Canfield collection, for increase and care of 
the Canfield collection of minerals 

Casey, Thomas L., for maintenance of the 
Casey collection and promotion of re- 
searches relating to Coleoptera 

Chamberlain, Francis Lea, for increase and 
promotion of Isaac Lea Collection of gems 
and moUusks 

Dykes, Charles, for support in financial re- 
search 

Eickemeyer, Florence Brevoort, for preserva- 
tion and exhibition of the photographic 
collection of Rudolph Eickemeyer, Jr 

Hanson, Martin Gustav and Caroline Runice, 
for some scientific work of the Institution, 
preferably in chemistry or medicine 

Higbee, Harry, income for general use of the 
Smithsonian Institution after June 11, 1967. 

Hillyer, Virgil, for increase and care of Virgil 
Ilillyer collection of lighting objects 

Hitchcock, Albert S., for care of the Hitchcock 
Agrostological Library 

HrdliSka, Ale§ and Marie, to further re- 
searches in physical anthropology and 
publication in connection therewith 

Hughes, Bruce, to found Hughes alcove 

Loeb, Morris, for furtherance of knowledge in 
the exact sciences 

Long, Annette and Edith C, for upkeep and 
preservation of Long collection of embroide- 
ries, laces, and textiles 

Maxwell, Mary E., for care and exhibition of 
Maxwell collection 

Myer, Catherine Walden, for purchase of first- 
class works of art for use and benefit of the 
National Collection of Fine Arts 

Nelson, Edward W,, for support of biological 
studies 



224 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

CONSOLIDATED FUND— Continued 



Fund 


Investment 1961 


Income 1961 


Noyes, Frank B., for use in connection with 
the collection of dolls placed in the U.S. 










National Museum through the interest of 










Mr. and Mrs. Noyes 


$1 


376. 47 




$70. 99 


Pell, Cornelia Livingston, for maintenance of 




Alfred Duane Pell collection. _ 


10 


619. 83 




547. 57 


PetroceUi, Joseph, for the care of the Petro- 




celli collection of photographic prints and 
for the enlargement and development of the 
section of photography of the U.S. National 
M useum . 


10, 


621. 07 




574. 62 


Rathbun, Richard, for use of division of U.S. 




National Museum containing Crustacea 


15, 


238. 20 




785. 72 


*Reid, Addison T., for founding chair in biology, 










in memory of Asher Tunis 


25, 

172, 
33, 


483. 68 

910. 49 
028. 76 


1 

8, 
1, 


314 01 


Roebling Collection, for care, improvement, 
and increase of Roebling collection of min- 
erals 


915. 65 


Roebling Solar Research. __ _ _ 


703. 02 


Rollins, Miriam and William, for investiga- 




tions in physics and chemistry.. .... 


198, 
33, 

25, 

14, 


652. 57 
655. 55 

692. 44 

324.85 


9 
1, 

1, 


985. 51 


Smithsonian employees' retirement 


766. 50 


Springer, Frank, for care and increase of the 
Springer collection and library 


324. 74 


Strong, Julia D., for benefit of the National 
Collection of Fine Arts . . 


738. 62 


Walcott, Charles D. and Mary Vaux, for de- 




velopment of geological and paleontological 

studies and publishing results of same 

Walcott, Mary Vaux, for publications in 
botany ._ 


685, 

82, 
104, 


644. 88 

932. 44 
571. 77 


35, 

4, 
5, 


318. 99 
276. 19 


Younger. Helen Walcott, held in trust 


122. 45 


Zerbce, Francis Brinckle, for endowment of 
aquaria 


1, 


359. 02 




70.09 


Total 


2, 298, 


586. 56 


117, 


772. 34 







•In addition tn funds deposited in the United States Treasury. 

FREER GALLERY OF ART FUND 

Early in 1906, by deed of gift, Charles L. Freer, of Detroit, gave to 
the Institution his collection of Chinese and other Oriental objects 
of art, as well as paintings, etchings, and other works of art by 
Whistler, Thayer, Dewung, and other artists. Later he also gave 
funds for construction of a building to house the collection, and 
finally in his will, probated November 6, 1919, he provided stocks 
and securities to the estimated value of $1,958,591.42, as an endow- 



REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE 225 

ment fund for the operation of the Gallery. The fund now amounts 
to $9,721,210.13. 

SUMMARY OF ENDOWMENTS 

Invested endowment for general purposes $2, 429, 459. 09 

Invested endowment for specific purposes other than Freer 
endowment 2, 441, 891. 50 

Total invested endowment other than Freer 4, 871, 350. 59 

Freer invested endowment for specific purposes 9, 721, 210. 13 

Total invested endowment for all purposes $14, 592, 5G0. 72 

CLASSIFICATION OF INVESTMENTS 

Deposited in the U.S. Treasury at 6 percent per annum, as 

authorized in the U.S. Revised Statutes, sec. 5591 $1, 000, 000. 00 

Investments other than Freer endowment (cost or market 
value at date acquired) : 

Bonds ?1, 5.30, G33. 40 

Stocks 2, 29.J, 685. 77 

Real estate and mortgages 28, 756. 00 

Uninvested capital 16, 275. 42 

3, 871, 350. 59 
Total investments other than Freer endowment $4, 871, 350. 59 

Investments of Freer endowment (cost or market value at date 
acquired) : 

Bonds $4, 993, 135. 06 

Stocks 4, 724, 660. 49 

Uninvested capital 3, 414. 58 

9, 721, 210. 13 
Total investments $14, 592. 560. 72 



226 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

EXHIBIT A 

BALANCE SHEET OF PRIVATE FUNDS 
June 30, 1961 

ASSETS 
Current funds: 
General : 
Cash: 

United States Treasury current account $510, 434. 04 

In banks and on hand 355, 166. 47 



865, 600. 51 
Less uninvested endov/ment 19, 690. 00 



845, 910. 51 
Travel and other advances 12, 724. 00 



Total general funds 858, 634. 51 

Restricted: 

Cash — United States Treasury current 

account $1, 738, 733. 99 

Investments — United States Treasury 

Notes 1, 635, 712. 56 



Total restricted funds 3, 374, 446. 55 



Total current funds 4, 233, 081. 06 

Endowment funds and funds functioning as en- 
dowment: 
Investments: 

Freer Gallery of Art: 

Cash $3, 414. 58 

Stocks and bonds 9, 717, 795. 55 



9, 721, 210. 13 
Consolidated: 

Cash $15,709.70 

Stocks and bonds 3, 718, 764. 18 



3, 734, 473. 88 
Loan to United States 

Treasury 1, 000, 000. 00 

Other stocks 'and bonds |, 107, 554. 99 

Cash 1 565. 72 

Real estate at book value... 28, 756. 00 4, 871, 350. 59 



Total endowment funds and funds function- 
ing as endowment - 14, 592, 560. 72 

Total 18, 825, 641. 78 



REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE 227 

FUND BALANCES 
Current funds: 
General : 

Unexpended funds — unrestricted $858, 634. 51 



Total general funds 858, 634. 51 

Restricted (Exhibit C) : 

Unexpended income from endowment $1, 084, 076. 28 

Funds for special purposes (gifts, grants, 

etc.) 2, 290, 370. 27 



Total restricted funds 3, 474, 446. 55 



Total current funds 4, 233, 081. 06 

EndovN^ment funds and funds functioning^as en- 
dowment (Exhibit D) : 

Freer Gallery of Art $9, 721, 210. 13 

Other: 

Restricted $2, 441, 891. 50 

General 2,429,459.09 4,871,350.59 



Total endowment funds and funds functioning as endow- 
ment - 14, 592, 560. 72 



Total-- __. 18, 825, 641. 78 



228 



ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 



e3 
H 

X 



CO 

Q 

w 

H 
I— ( 



cd 00 

o CO 



CD 00 ■^ O 00 

O CO O O CO 

ci oi lo ai CO 

t-- CO '-D CO C2 

lO CD l^ iM O 



CD lO CO lO C3 



t) O) t- (D 

C ~ -"^ -^ 

•B- i S3 1 § 

QJ S CD ^ b 
o > t- *^ ^ 

« w 

t-l 

3 

o 



lO CO 

CO lO 



O CO 
CO (N 






o 

o _ - 

C 5 03 tn 



CO t3 

a 



S S ^-2 



:::: Q. 



A O iHi .=s; <3 



O coo 

CL g T3 O 5 

g -n < (^ o 

(-> 

3 



03 — 



s 



REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE 



229 



O "# 

o CO 
o o 

lo" CO 

CO (M 
(M O 



O -^ 03 t^ 
CO iC Ci "-I 



•* — CO — I 

to 'T 00 CO 

a <o> ^ Gi 



C5 O -H CD 

CO ic CO ■* 

lO t- I> (N 



-* 00 o CO 00 lO 

00 O •* O lO CO 

Tj" "ir C3 o CN 



lO ■<5< t> o 



^ O CO o -^ 

(N rH l-H 



•a 

e3 



"E 

3 
m 

S 
03 



T3 
C 
3 
O 

"5 Ml 



O C 

c S 



o a 

= S >. 

C C 03 

.— 3 U 

— O ° 

00 ^ 



(^ 



C 3 

J s 

aH W O ^ :H 

3 3 

fin m 



T3 .if- S3 — 



O s o 

> a c- 



"C — o aj 



a 



bc : 



cq 



S3 

-u C 

3 o 

O cu 



3 c3 C = t- 



cD CD 
00 (N 
00 'H 



x: 

a. 

03 
to fc- 

^ _aj 
a; 03 



bC ^ 



o 2 & 

3 — X O 
si -i .c >. 



O CO 

T3 " 
0) 

^ t^ 

X 3 

o V 

-tJ •-. 

3 3 

o 



bC h C 



*J _0 30 

'go. « to 

■^ r; — to 

--3 03 4) 



03 Si O 
■^ S hJ 



s: r3 



^ c5 
»2 d 



^ W 



<o 



O 3 



a 



J2 



H « 



« 



230 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

EXHIBIT C 

PRIVATE FUNDS 

STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN CURRENT RESTRICTED FUND BALANCE 

Year ended June 30, 1961 





Funds for special puiposes 




Unexpended 
income 


Gifts, grants, etc. 


Total 


Balance at beginning of year 


$1, 127, 115. 28 


$1, 331, 791. 41 


$2, 458, 906. 69 


Add: 

Income from restricted en- 
dowment: 

Freer Gallery of Art 

Other restricted funds 


436, 006. 08 
258, 908. 76 




436, 006. 08 




258, 908. 76 










694, 914. 84 
37, 170. 41 




694, 914. 84 


Less custodial costs 




37, 170. 41 








Net income 'from re- 
stricted endowment 

Sale of publications 

Gifts and grants 


657, 744. 43 
17, 599. 03 


1, 674. 38 

6, 127, 382. 33 

169, 394. 08 


657, 744. 43 

19, 273. 41 

6, 127, 382. 33 


Other 


3, 035. 70 


172, 429. 78 








1, 805, 494. 44 


7, 630, 242. 20 


9, 435, 736. 64 


Deduct: 

Transfer to current income : 

Freer Gallery of Art 

Other restricted funds 

Unrestricted 


525, 806. 14 

50, 291. 84 

132, 765. 04 




525, 806. 14 


5, 247, 913. 18 
42, 068. 49 


5, 298, 205. 02 
174, 833. 53 






Income added to principal, 
net 


708, 863. 02 
9, 116. 16 


5, 289, 981. 67 


5, 998, 844. 69 
9, 116. 16 


Returns to National Science 
Foundation 


51, 729. 57 
(1, 839. 31) 


51, 729. 57 


Transfer to (from) gifts and 
grants 


1, 839. 31 
1, 599. 67 




Transfer to endowment funds 


1, 599. 67 










721, 418. 16 


5, 339, 871. 93 


6, 061, 290. 09 


Balance at end of year 


1, 084, 076. 28 


2, 290, 370. 27 


3, 374, 446. 55 







REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE 231 

EXHIBIT D 

PRIVATE FUNDS 

STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN PRINCIPAL OF ENDOWMENT FUNDS AND FUNDS 
FUNCTIONING AS ENDOWMENT 

Year ended June 30, 1961 

Balance at beginning of year $13, 771, 652. 40 

Add: 

Gifts and bequests (including transfer 

of Ganson Taggart Fund) $30, 849. 67 

Income added to principal as prescribed 

by donor 9, 116. 16 

Net gain on investments 781,499.31 821,465.14 

Total 14, 593, 117. 54 

Deduct amounts appropriated to current 
funds for retirement payments 556. 82 

14, 592, 560. 72 
Balance at year end consisting of: 

Unrestricted $2, 429, 459. 09 

Restricted for: 

Freer Gallery of Art 9, 721, 210. 13 

Other collections and research 2, 441, 891. 50 



14, 592, 560. 72 



The practice of maintaining savings accounts in several of the 
Washington banks and trust companies has been continued during 
the past year, and interest on these deposits amounted to $12,593.72. 

Deposits are made in banks for convenience in collection of checks, 
and later such funds are withdrawn and deposited in the United 
States Treasury. Disbursement of funds is made by check signed by 
the Secretary of the Institution and drawn on the United States 
Treasury. 

The Institution gratefully acknowledges gifts and grants from the 
following : 

Academic Press Co., contribution to the Rathbun Memorial Fund. 

Edward D. Adler, contribution to the Smithsonian Institution. 

American Cocoa Research, grant to help defray costs of art work m connection 
with the publication of a Taxonomic Monograph of the Genus Theobroma by 
Dr. Jose Cuatrecasas. 

American Petroleum Institute, grant-in-aid toward the establishment of a per- 
manent exhibit and animated petroleum map in the United States National 
Museum. 

American Petroleum Institute, grant to cover expenses of Dr. G. Arthur Cooper 
in connection with hia participation in the Geology Domain Committee 
Symposium to be held in Houston, Texas. 

625325— G2 16 



232 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

Atomic Energy Comraission, additional grant for support of research and study 

of the biochemical effects of ionizing and nonionizing radiation on plant 

metabolism during development. 
Atomic Energy Commission, additional grant for support of research entitled 

"Systematic Zoological Research on the Marine Fauna of the Tropical Pacific 

Area." 
Bernice P. Bishop Museum, grant to assist in defraying expenses of Dr. Bernard 

R. Feinstein in connection with field work in Viet Nam and neighboring 

countries. 
Bredin Foundation, grant for the support of research entitled "Ocean Food 

Chain Cycle." 
Mrs. John S. Burdette, contribution for the restoration of a platform rocker 

given by her to the Smithsonian Institution. 
Alan C. Collins, grant for a research expedition to Tibesti Mountains of Libya. 
Curtiss-Wright Corporation, gift for the construction of a replica of the first 

naval aircraft, the Curtiss A-1. 
Department of the Air Force, additional grant for research entitled "Study of 

Atmospheric Entry and Impact of High Velocity Meteorites." 
Department of the Air Force, additional grant for upper atmosphere stellar 

image study. 
Department of the Air Force, additional grant for support of research entitled 

"The Accretion of Interplanetary Matter by the Earth." 
Department of the Air Force, additional grant for research directed toward the 

study of stellar scintillation. 
Department of the Air Force, grant for the support of research entitled "The 

Reduction of Satellite Observations to Determine Atmospheric Density." 
Department of the Army, Ordnance Corps, additional grants for research entitled 

"Procurement of Satellite Tracking and Orbit." 
Department of the Army, Quartermaster Corps, grant for support of a report 

on "The Biotic Associations of the Blattaria" by Roth and Willis. 
Eastern Federation of Mineralogical and Lapidary Societies, grant to defray 

expenses of Paul E. Desautels while attending the 1960 convention in Ashe- 

ville. North Carolina. 
Felix and Helen Juda Foundation, gift to the Freer Gallery of Art Publication 

Fund. 
Mr. Reuben H. Fleet, gift for the purchase of a scale model of Consolidated 

NY-1 Aircraft for the National Air Museum, 
Alex. Gordon 3d, contribution to the Smithsonian Institution. 
Mr. E. P. Henderson, gift for the Meteorite Fund. 

Mr, Stewart Huston, gift for the restoration of an 18th Century Chaise. 
Institute of Andean Research, grant for Archeological Research in Ecuador on 

Project J of the Institute of Andean Research Program, "Interrelationships 

of New World Cultures." 
International Association for Plant Taxonomy, gift to cover expenses of Dr. A. 

C. Smith in connection with travel to Brussels while attending the meeting 

of the Editorial Committee of the International Code of Botanical 

Nomenclature. 
Jersey Production Research Corporation, additional grant for support of a re- 
search project on Bchinoid Spines. 
Jewitt Foundation, grant for the support of research entitled "Ecology and 

Morphology of the Hoatzin." 



REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE 233 

Edwin A. Link, additional gift foi; the support of the Marine Archeological 

Project. 
Link Foundation, additional gift for the support of special publications dealing 

with aviation and the Smithsonian Institution Collections. 
McDermott Foundation, gift to purchase a telescope which will be loaned in- 
definitely to the Dallas Moonwatch Team. 
Metropolitan Broadcasting Corporation, grant to cover expenses relating to the 
shipment of the White Tigress from India to the National Zoological Park. 
Mitch Miller Foundation, grant for the support of research entitled "Ecology 

and Morphology of the Hoatzin." 
Mrs, George Maurice Morris, gift to establish the Miriam H. Morris Fund. 
National Academy of Sciences, travel grants for J. F. Gates Clarke, William 
Stem, S. H. Reisenberg, and H. G. Diegnan to attend the Tenth Pacific 
Science congress. 
National Aeronautics and Space Administration, additional grants for the sup- 
port of the Satellite Tracking Program. 
National Aeronautics and Space Administration, additional grants for the 

support of astronomical research studies. 
National Aeronautics and Space Administration, additional grant for the acquisi- 
tion of the "Beyer Tektite Collection." 
National Geographic Society, grant for Paleo-Indian investigations at Agate 

Basin, Eastern Wyoming. 
National Institute of Health, grant toward the purchase of the Melander Collec- 
tion of Diptera. 
National Science Foundation : 

Grant for research entitled "Obsidian Dating." 

Additional grant for research entitled 'Oldest Fossil Bryozoa of the United 

States." 
Additional grant for research entitled "Comparative Analysis of Behavior in 

Tropical Birds." 
Additional grant for research entitled "Morphology and Paleoecology of 

Permian Brachiopods." 
Additional grant for research entitled "Endocrine Basis of Parasitic Breeding 

in Birds." 
Additional grant for research entitled "Metabolic Aspects of the Digestion of 

Wax." 
Additional grant for research entitled "Taxonomic Study of the Phanerogams 

of Colombia." 
Grant for research entitled "Permo-Triassic Reptiles of South Africa." 
Grant for partial support for the "Preparation and Publication of Supple- 
ment to Annotated Bibliography of Termites, 1955-1960." 
Grant for research entitled "A Revision of the Beetles of the Genus Neobrotica 

Jacoby." 
Additional grant for research entitled "Systematics of Chilopoda and 

Diplopoda." 
Additional grant for research entitled "Revisionary Study of the Blattoidea." 
Additional grant for research entitled "Systematic Studies of South American 

Microlepidoptera." 
Additional grant for research entitled "Early Tertiary Mammals of North 

America." 
Grant for research entitled "Construction of Highly Sensitive Mass Spectro- 
meter for analyzing Rare Gases in Meteorites." 
Grant for research entitled "Culture History of South Arabia." 



234 ANTRAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

National Science Foundation — Continued 

Grant for research entitled "Foreign Cambrian Trilobites with American 

Affinities." 
Grant for research entitled "Systematic Significance of Echinoid Spines." 
Grant for research entitled "Botanical Exploration of Southern Brazil." 
Grant for research entitled "Research on Stellar Atmosphere." 
Grant for research entitled "Extensive Studies, over a long period of time, 

in the worldwide Order Hemiptera." 
Additional grant for research entitled "Taxonomy of the Bamboo." 
Grant for research entitled "Settlement pattern in the Missouri Valley." 
Grant for research entitled "Caddo Language Study." 

Grant for research entitled "A Late Pleistocene Fauna and Possible Human 
Associations near Littleton, Colorado." 

New York Academy of Sciences, gift to defray expenses of Dr. M. T. Newman 
while attending the conference on "Genetic Perspectives in Disease Resistance 
and Susceptibility." 

Office of Naval Research, additional grant to provide expert consultants to advise 
the Navy Advisory Committee. 

Office of Naval Research, additional grant to perform psychological research 
studies. 

Office of Naval Research, additional grant for support of research entitled "In- 
formation on Shark Distribution and the Distribution of Shark Attack all 
over the World." 

Office of Naval Research, additional grant for study concerning the development 
of a proposal for an institute or laboratory of human performance standards. 

Office of Naval Research, additional grant for research in connection with studies 
on the marine fauna of the South Pacific Ocean. 

Office of Naval Research, additional grant to perform aeronautical research 
studies. 

Mrs. John B. Oliver, gift to the Historic Dresses Fund. 

Pan American Union, grant for travel expenses of Dr. Clifford Evans and Dr. 
Betty Meggers to Barranquilla, Colombia, to attend the conference on 
Methodology. 

Mr. B. T. Rocca, gift to the Smithsonian Institution. 

Rancho Santa Ana Botanic Garden, grant for joint botanical collecting ex- 
pedition to the Hawaiian Islands. 

St. Petersburg Shell Club, grant to defray expenses of Dr. Harald Rehder to 
St. Petersburg to attend the annual Shell Show. 

Dr. Jeanne S. Schwengel, gift to defray travel expenses of Dr. Harald A. 
Rehder from Washington to Honolulu in connection with his trip to Jaluit 
Atoll in the Marshall Islands, 

Shell Companies Foundation, gift to purchase 180 volumes of "Collection of 
Pilots and Engine Handbooks." 

Texas Gulf Sulphur Co., grant for the construction of two Frasch Models. 

U.S. Department of Agriculture, grant for the support of research in the Order 
Diptera. 

Wenner-Gren Foundation, grant to defray travel expenses of Dr. T. Dale Stewart 
while attending the Wenner-Gren Foundation Symposium Number 16. 

Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution, grant to cover travel expenses of Dr. 
Richard Cifelli to participate in Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution re- 
search cruises in the North Atlantic. 

Yale University, gift to defray travel expenses of Dr. William L. Stern in connec- 
tion with a trip to New Haven, Connecticut. 



REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE 235 

For support of the Science Information Exchange : 
Atomic Energy Commission 
Department of Defense 
Department of the Navy 
Federal Aviation Agency 

National Aeronautics and Space Administration 
National Institute of Health 
National Science Foundation 
Veterans' Administration 

Included in the above list of gifts and contributions are reimburs- 
able contracts. 

The foregoing report relates only to the private funds of the 
Institution. 

The following appropriations were made by Congress for the Gov- 
ernment bureaus under the administrative charge of the Smithsonian 
Institution for the fiscal year 1961 : 

Salaries and Expenses $8, 114, 000. 00 

National Zoological Park 1, 304, 000. 00 

The appropriation made to the National Gallery of Art (which 
is a bureau of the Smithsonian Institution) was $1,920,000.00. 

In addition, funds were transfen-ed from other Government 
agencies for expenditure under the direction of the Smithsonian 
Institution as follows : 

Working Funds, transferred from the National Park Service, 
Interior Department, for archeological investigations in river 
basins throughout the United States $123, 895. 00 

Tlie Institution also administers a trust fund for partial support 
of the Canal Zone Biological Area, located on Barro Colorado Island 
in the Canal Zone. 

AUDIT 

The report of the audit of the Smithsonian Private Funds follows : 

The Board of Regents, 
Smithsonian Institution, 
Washington 25, B.C. 

"We have examined the balance sheet of private funds of Smithsonian Institu- 
tion as of June 30, 1961 and the related statement of current general private 
funds receipts and disbursements and the several statements of changes in 
funds for the year then ended. Our examination was made in accordance with 
generally accepted auditing standards, and accordingly Included such tests of 
the accounting records and such other auditing procedures as we considered 
necessary in the circumstances. 

Land, building, furniture, equipment, works of art, living and other speci- 
mens and certain sundry property are not included in the accounts of the 
Institution ; likewise, the accompanying statements do not include the Na- 
tional Gallery of Art and other departments, bureaus and operations admin- 



236 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

istered by the Institution under Federal appropriations. The accoxints of the 
Institution are maintained on the basis of cash receipts and disbursements, with 
the result that the accompanying statements do not reflect income earned but 
not collected or expenses incurred but not paid. 

In our opinion, subject to the matters referred to in the preceding paragraph, 
the accompanying statement of private funds presents fairly the assets and 
funds principal of Smithsonian Institution at June 30, 1961 ; further, the accom- 
panying statement of current general private funds receipts and disbursements 
and several statements of changes in funds, which have been prepared on a basis 
consistent with that of the preceding year, present fairly the cash transactions 
of the private funds for the year then ended. 

Peat, Maewick, Mitchell & Co. 
Washington, D.C. 
8epteml)er 11, 1961 

Respectfully submitted. 

(s) Clarence Cannon, 
(s) Caryl P. Haskins, 
(s) Robert V. Fleming, 

Executive Com/mittee. 



GENERAL APPENDIX 
to the 

SMITHSONIAN REPORT FOR 1961 



237 



ADVERTISEISIENT 

The object of the General Appendix to the Annual Report of the 
Smithsonian Institution is to furnish brief accounts of scientific dis- 
covery in particular directions ; reports of investigations made by staff 
members and collaborators of the Institution ; and memoirs of a gen- 
eral character or on special topics that are of interest or value to the 
numerous correspondents of the Institution. 

It has been a prominent object of the Board of Regents of the 
Smithsonian Institution from a very early date to enrich the annual 
report required of them by law with memoirs illustrating the more 
remarkable and important developments in physical and biological 
discovery, as well as showing the general character of the operations 
of the Institution; and, during the greater part of its history, this 
purpose has been carried out largely by the publication of such papers 
as would possess an interest to all attracted by scientific progress. 

In 1880, induced in part by the discontinuance of an annual sum- 
mary of progress which for 30 years previously had been issued by 
well-known private publishing firms, the Secretary had a series of 
abstracts prepared by competent collaborators, showing concisely the 
prominent features of recent scientific progress in astronomy, geology, 
meteorology, physics, chemistry, mineralogy, botany, zoology, and 
anthropology. This latter plan was continued, though not altogether 
satisfactorily, down to and including the year 1888. 

In the report of 1889, a return was made to the earlier method of 
presenting a miscellaneous selection of papers (some of them original) 
embracing a considerable range of scientific investigation and discus- 
sion. This method has been continued in the present report for 1961. 

Reprints of the various papers in the General Appendix may be 
obtained, as long as the supply lasts, on request addressed to the 
Editorial and Publications Division, Smithsonian Institution, Wash- 
ington 25, D.C. 



Some Astronomical Aspects of Life in the 

Universe^ 



By Su-Shu Huang 

Institute for Advanced Study, Princeton, N.J.* 



[With 3 plates] 

Three different ways by which matter interacts are gravitational, 
nuclear, and chemical. As our knowledge now stands, it appears that 
the behavior of all matter in the universe — from shining stars to 
exuberant life on the earth — may eventually be explained in terms of 
these interactions. Indeed, the emergence of life in general, and on 
earth in particular, is a net result of all three. 

All forms of life must rely for maintenance on a stellar source of 
energy. Therefore, the nature and evolution of a star control the 
emergence and development of life. There is no doubt now that 
stars condense from gas and dust in the interstellar clouds, a newly 
formed star's temperature being very low because the interstellar gas 
is quite cool. As the star contracts, its temperature increases, and it 
moves from the lower right-hand comer of the Hertzsprung-Russell 
diagram toward the left side. Figure 1 shows the early evolutionary 
tracks of stars of different masses, which can be roughly represented 
by straight lines.^ 

Gravitational contraction stops when the internal temperature be- 
comes high enough for thermonuclear reactions to begin to convert 
hydrogen into helium. These reactions supply energy equal to that 
radiated by the star, which therefore maintains an equilibrium con- 
dition with constant luminosity for a long time. Such a state of affairs 
corresponds to a star on the main sequence. 

The time of contraction to the main sequence depends on the mass, 
as shown in table 1. The time scales given here are longer than usu- 

1 Reprinted by permission from Sky and Telescope, vol. 21, No. 6, June 1961, 
' On leave from Goddard Space Flight Center, National Aeronautics and Space Admin- 
istration. 

* For a detailed description of a star of solar mass contracting to the main sequence, see 
"Early Solar Evolution," Robert R. Brownlee and Arthur N. Cox, Slcy and Telescope, 
May 1961, p. 252.— Ed. 

239 



240 



ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 



LOGARITHM OF SURFACE TEMPERATURE 
4.2 4.0 3.8 3.6 



1,000 - 
10 



100 - 



I— ■ 


1 1 1 1 


1 


1 1 




V^~^-^ 




Mass 

(Sun = l) 




"^^ \"~-~-»^ 




"^ — 6.3 








"^-^^ 4.0 


- 


*^ \ 

C 1.6 N 

\ 




~-- 2.5 
• 1.6 




-1 1 1 1 


1.0 V^ 

I 1 1 


"~~~'*~--- 1.0 

\ 

1., 1 



^5 AO FO GO KO 

SPECTRAL TYPE 

Figure 1. — A contracting newborn star evolves leftward in this diagram to the main 
sequence, where a long stay should favor development of life on any planets the star may 
have. 

ally cited because we have taken into account the change in lumi- 
nosity of the star during its contraction. 

A star of a certain mass will arrive at the main sequence with a 
definite spectral type and luminosity, and its character changes only 
slightly during the long period in which the hydrogen in its core is 
being consumed. Once the central hydrogen is exhausted, the star 
evolves quite rapidly toward the right, to become a giant or super- 
giant — very different in size and surface brightness from before. 

It is obvious from the table that time scales on the main sequence are 
much longer than those of contraction. This explains why about 90 
percent of observed stars are to be found on the main sequence. The 
stay of a more massive star on the main sequence is shorter than that 
of a less massive star, as it dissipates its energy much faster. Thus, 
an star remains in this state for only a few million years, compared 
to an M star's 100 billion. 

From this brief look at stellar life histories, it is clear that gravita- 
tion holds a star together while nuclear interactions release the energy 
it radiates. The third kind of reaction, chemical, does not play a 



LIFE IN THE UNIVERSE — HUANG 



241 



significant role in shaping a star, yet chemical action is responsible for 
the emergence and evolution of living organisms. And although we 
can predict that in about 10 billion years or less our sun will become a 
white dwarf, there is no way of telling how man will evolve in even 
10 million years. 

Wliat is the reason for this? Gravitational interaction is very 
simple and is described by Newton's law of gravitation. The number 
of possible nuclear interactions is very large indeed, since there are 
hundreds of different atomic nuclei ; nevertheless, we could still list all 
conceivable reactions. Hence we can compute them and even predict 
the evolution of stars by the law of gravitation and our knowledge of 
nuclear physics. 

But how big is the total number of chemical reactions — both in- 
organic and organic — that one may conceive ? Unable to estimate such 
a number, I am probably safe in saying that it is larger than any astro- 
nomical figure we can find in our textbooks. It is this wealth of chemi- 
cal activity that makes a prediction of the emergence and evolution of 
living organisms difficult, if not permanently elusive. 

If we cannot compute the time scale of biological evolution, we must 
find it out empirically. Here on earth it took about 3 billion years for 
humans to evolve from atoms. I have suggested earlier that since 
biological evolution occurs through the random processes of muta- 
tion and selection, its average time scale is probably of the same order 
of magnitude — a few billion years. On this basis, for successful bio- 
logical evolution on a planet, the luminosity of its parent star must 



Table 1 



Mass 


Time scales in billions 
of j'ears 


Characteristics on main sequence 


(sun = l) 


Gravitational 
contraction 


Main- 
sequence 
stage 


Spectral 
type 


Radius 
(sun=l) 


Luminosity 

(sun=l) 

- 


17.0 


0. 00012 
.0011 
.0041 
.022 
.042 
.056 
.094 
. 11 
. 14 
.23 
.60 


0.008 
.08 
.4 

2 

4 

6 
11 
13 
17 
28 
70 


BO - 


9.0 

4.2 

2.8 

1.51 

1.25 

1.24 

1.02 

1.00 

.92 

.74 

.54 


29. 000 


6.3 


B5 


980 


3.2 


AO 

A5 

FO 


100 


1.9 


12.0 


1.5- _ - 


4.8 


1.3 . 


F5 


2.7 


1.02... 


GO 


1.2 


1.00 


G2 (sun) 

G5 


1.0 


0.91. . 


.72 


0.74 __ 


KO 

K5 


.35 


0.54_._ 


. 10 







242 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

be constant for at least this long. Thus we see from the table that 
only those main-sequence stars at and below spectral type F can sup- 
port life. Others evolve too fast and do not maintain constant lumi- 
nosities long enough. 

A second limitation on the development of life on a planet is its star's 
ability to warm up a large space around it. Stars are j&replaces in the 
cold and dark of space, each having a region of propitious temperature 
in which life may develop and survive. It is evident, for example, 
that the habitable zones of cool stars of spectral type M are much 
smaller than that of the sun. Therefore, the chance of finding a planet 
revolving permanently inside the habitable zone of an M star is less 
than for somewhat hotter stars. However, il/-type dwarfs are far more 
numerous than any other single spectral type, and the total number of 
them supporting life may be appreciable. 

Combining the previous two arguments, we conclude that intelligent 
life has the highest chance of being found in the vicinities of stars of 
medium temperature, like the sun. A further limitation applies to 
binary and multiple systems, which constitute about one-third of all 
stars. A planet associated with a binary may or may not have a stable 
orbit, and in the latter case could wander out of the habitable zone 
and destroy life that might have developed earlier. 

As for a life-supporting planet itself, one of its most important 
qualifications is maintenance of an atmosphere suitable for the chem- 
ical processes of living beings. An atmosphere makes possible the 
existence of water or other substances in liquid form on the planet's 
surface; it is simply inconceivable that living organisms can be 
maintained without the aid of some substances in liquid form. 

The earth holds its air because its gravitational attraction prevents 
gas molecules, which are in a state of thermal motion, from escaping. 
The moon and Mercury are devoid of atmospheres partly because of 
their smaller surface gravities ; hence, a larger planet is required. 

But it is not advantageous to the emergence of life, especially of 
a high form, if the planet is too big. Since the most abundant element 
in the universe is hydrogen, a newly formed planet must have a high 
percentage of it, particularly in its outer envelope, because of hydro- 
gen's light weight. In other words, we expect a new planet's atmos- 
phere to be chemically in a reducing state. As A. I. Oparin has 
pointed out, life may first appear under reducing conditions, but it 
seems imlikely that life of a high form would emerge under such a 
dominantly hydrogen atmosphere. 

My tentative conclusion is based upon the energy metabolism of 
living beings. In an oxidizing atmosphere, like the earth's, the com- 
bustion of glucose, 

CeHizOe + 6O2 ^6C02 + 6H2O, 



LIFE m THE UNIVERSE — ^HUANG 243 

which supplies most of the body's needs for energy, yields about 700 
kilogram-calories of free energy per mole. On the other hand, in a 
reducing atmosphere the free energy has to be derived from fermenta- 
tion of glucose to ethyl alcohol and carbon dioxide, according to 

CsHi^Oe >2C2H50H+2C02, 

which amounts to only about 60 kilogram-calories per mole. 

Consequently, under reducing conditions a living being has to 
consume more than 10 times as much food as in an oxidizing environ- 
ment in order to derive the same amount of free energy. Therefore, 
it is doubtful that a mind such as man's would appear through evolu- 
tion in a reducing atmosphere, because living beings would be too 
preoccupied with seeking food. 

If hydrogen must first escape from the air before a high form of 
life emerges, the planet must not be too large. Plausible values for 
the radius would be between 1,000 and 20,000 kilometers, which in- 
cludes the moon and Mercury. The former could hold air if its density 
were high, and the latter would have a suitable atmosphere if its 
distance from the sun were greater. 

The problem of life on other worlds is ultimately related to the 
formation of the complex molecules that are essential to life processes. 
Life on the earth, as we all know, depends upon carbon-containing 
molecules and on water. The fundamental question of bioastronomy 
is whether living beings elsewhere must also depend on the carbon 
bond, with water as a solvent. Although a definite answer cannot be 
provided, I have several arguments in favor of an affirmative one. 

From what other element can complex molecules be built? A 
glance at the periodic table shows silicon, located directly below 
carbon, to be a likely candidate. Indeed, silicon is largely responsible 
for the great variety of molecules fomid in the earth's crust. How- 
ever, silicon appears to have a higher affinity for fluorine and other 
halogens than for hydrogen. While its cosmic abmidance is as much 
as one-fifth that of carbon, the percentage of halogens in the cosmos 
is negligible compared with hydrogen. As a result, complex com- 
pounds of silicon have much less chance to form than do those in- 
volving carbon. 

There are several empirical results favoring carbon as an essential 
life constituent. M. Calvin and his associates made the first successful 
experiment in prebiological chemistry when they obtained formalde- 
hyde and formic acid in a cyclotron from a mixture of carbon dioxide 
and water. In 1953, S. L. Miller found that the amino acids — the 
building blocks of proteins — are formed, together with other organic 
compounds, when an electric discharge is passed through a mixture of 
methane, ammonia, and water vapor, in concentrations approximately 



244 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 





MAJOR EVENTS OF BIOLOGICAL EVOLUTION ON EARTH 




-- 


» First men 

1 Culmination of mammali; spread of apes 






- 


1 Many modern mammals 
1 Expansion of mammals 







100 — 








< 

a. 
< 

> 



200 — 


> Last dinosaurs: great expansion of angiosperms 




1 First mammals and birds 

' First dinosaurs 

1 Great expansion of primitive reptiles 



O 




Appearance of abundant 
marine invertebrates 


- 




< 






in 
z 


J 
J 

1 


300 — 
400 — 


1 First reptiles; great coal forests 

First amphibians; first insects 
1 First land plants 


in 
a: 

< 

> 
u. 
O 

»r) 3 
Z 

o 

_J 
~l 
a 




I First known fossils 




' 


Earliest known fishes 






1 Formation of tKe e^rth 








5 








500 — 


1 Appearance of abundant marine invertebrates 



Figure 2. — Right: The author's chart of the major events in the evolution of life on our 
planet. The compressed scale (inset) shows some very early events in the earth's history. 



equal to those given by H. C. Urey for the primitive atmosphere of 
the earth. 

Calvin also discovered organic compounds in meteorites. Very 
recently B, Nagy, D. J. Hennessy, and W. G. Meinschein detected 
paraffinic hydrocarbons, closely akin to those found on earth in living 
matter, in a fragment of a stony meteorite that fell in France nearly a 
century ago. They believe this to be the first empirical evidence for 
the existence of life beyond our own planet. Such an interpretation 
has not been unanimously accepted by authorities on this subject. 
However, if the meteorite's hydrocarbons are not due to contamination, 
they indicate definitely that the formation of organic compounds is not 
limited to the surface of the earth, although the mechanism of forma- 
tion may be debated for a long time to come. 



LIFE IN THE UNIVERSE — HUANG 245 

All these results suggest that complex compounds of carbon can 
be formed easily from inorganic substances when conditions are suit- 
able. We may not be seriously wrong if we assume that life every- 
where in the universe depends on carbon compounds. 

The question of life elsewhere in the solar system is no longer as 
speculative as it was even a decade ago, and in 10 years we may have 
definite proof concerning the present existence of living beings on other 
planets. But if no life is found, it does not prove that none ever 
appeared — such proof requires actual excavation of a planet's surface, 
which may take a few decades to achieve. 

Mars is most frequently mentioned as a possible former or present 
abode of life. Despite its small gravitational attraction (with only 10 
percent of the earth's mass), its surface gravity is 37 percent of ours 
and it retains an atmosphere. There is no hydrogen or helium ; none 
is expected. Spectroscopic observations show carbon dioxide is pres- 
ent, but the search for oxygen has been negative. Mars' atmosphere 
contains less than 1/1,000 as much oxygen as the earth's, yet there is 
doubtless much nitrogen. 

Although spectroscopic observations have failed to detect water 
vapor on Mars, its presence may be indicated by the seasonal variations 
of the polar caps. However, the physical nature of the polar caps is 
still debatable. Some observers consider them to be made of ice, 
but others, like C. C. Kiess and his collaborators (Sky and Telescope, 
June 1960, p. 469), explain the caps as solid nitrogen tetroxide. 

The temperature of Mars' equatorial region can reach a maximum 
of about 30° C, but in general is lower than on earth. Since 
not much water exists in the Martian atmosphere to keep heat from 
radiating away into space at night, the temperature probably reaches 
as low as — 100° C. Whether life can be maintained under these con- 
ditions has interested astronomers for a long time. 

Dark green areas in the equatorial regions suggest that plant life of 
some form is present on Mars. The color and shade of these markings 
change with the seasons in a way that indicates the growth and decay 
of vegetation (darker in spring and lighter in autumn). Because of 
the very severe climate, no higher terrestrial plants could survive. 
However, special kinds, such as lichens, might live. A lichen is a 
symbiotic plant composed of two different organisms: fungus and 
alga. These can flourish together under conditions that would be 
fatal if either had to meet them alone. 

The fungus, which does not perform photosynthesis, derives food 
from the alga, which does. But the fungus helps maintain the water 
supply necessary for growth of the alga. Consequently, this symbiotic 
plant occurs all over the earth, enduring many kinds of extreme 
climate, from burning deserts to freezing mountaintops. However, it 



246 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

is not necessarily lichens themselves that we observe in the dark-green 
areas of Mars. 

Eather, we wish to emphasize here that the severe climate on Mars 
does not exclude the possibility of the maintenance of life there. In- 
deed, observations by W. M. Sinton strongly imply that an infrared 
absorption band characteristic of many organic compounds is present 
in tlie Martian spectrum, which strengthens the belief in some form 
of vegetation on that planet. 

Because Mars lacks oxygen, most astronomers agree that we should 
not expect to find a high form of life there, and I personally believe 
this conclusion is probably right. But there is the unlikely possibility 
that intelligent beings might have existed, or still survive, on Mars. 
This view does not need the support of the canals, whose interpretation 
has aroused much controversy. But since Mars' gravity is smaller than 
the earth's, it was easier for hydrogen to dissipate, and biological 
evolution could have started earlier on the red planet than here. It is 
not inconceivable that intelligent beings emerged on Mars millions of 
years ago. One might object that the rate of evolution would be slower 
because chemical reactions would occur less rapidly at the low Martian 
temperature. On the other hand, the development of the human brain 
may have been completed during the glacial ages here on earth. 

The other neighbor of the earth is Venus. Carbon dioxide is 
abundant in its atmosphere, and water vapor has recently been estab- 
lished by John Strong, but oxygen has never been detected. There are 
extensive clouds that prevent us from seeing the planet's actual sur- 
face, and we can only measure the composition of the upper atmos- 
phere. The clouds themselves probably consist of water droplets or 
ice particles. 

Microwave observations of Venus by C. H. Mayer and his coworkers 
yield a temperature of more than 300° C. As Carl Sagan has pointed 
out, the high temperature of the planet is consistent with an abundance 
of carbon dioxide and water vapor below the clouds. Both these sub- 
stances produce a very efficient greenhouse effect, letting visible sun- 
light pass through but preventing infrared radiation from going out. 
Hence Venus' surface temperature probably reaches such a high value 
that life is impossible there. 

The existence of life on other bodies in our solar system cannot be 
categorically denied. However, because of their chemically reducing 
atmospheres and low temperatures (or very high, for Mercury's sunlit 
side) , life must be very primitive, if present at all. 

Elsewhere in the universe, the fundamental problem is the existence 
of planets. Are stars always accompanied by some smaller bodies? 
We don't have a definite answer, because of observational difficulties. 
No earthbound telescope could detect a planet of Jupiter's size even if 



[Smithsonian Report, 1961. — Huang 



PLATE 1 




Smithsonian Report. 1961. — Huang 



Plate 2 




Smithsonian Report, 1961. — Huang 



Plate 3 






-----Jii.. 




a; 0) «2 "-^ u 
« <-> « ,, [_ 



^ JS JJ _S 



o - 






as ""O CJ 



u. O ;j. 

rt O !* 



° 2 H <u Ph 






22^ ™- 






; w oj oj 

. Q *- c 



9'^ 



.2 ™ 


:^ 


= ^ > s 

?^ 0-n 






U -i-J ti 1) 
>- ^ -r= ^ 



a2 g*^ _ 



c/3 re ac c 
" o 



l-^.o-z 



~^.'^'l= 



V 



t-i -Q re ^ 



CI, v 






be '^ re -^ > 
oj c r^ re 

r^ S <-' tn 

.2 >-• D p ^ " 

g'rt S « u R: 

t; IBIS'S "^'^ 

re " ^^ -a iJ 
•> cj •— cj *r! . -^ 



■•-^ O r- re C U 

.^i"-" c-n o o 

*-■ *j C ci, t. 

'^^ y H 4J ^ re 

re <u 4J 4-) 1-. ^ 

c 5^ o u o c/D 

i* re >.TD -S re 

~ "^ '-M -.^ ■ ? ^ 

.2 & (J CO 

^ <» j_, re . 

— a. h — y 

flj Qj re r- p bo 

ui S--; S O g <L> 



LIFE IN THE UNIVERSE — ^HUANG 



247 



Phenomenon 



11.9-YEAR REVOLUTION 



Maximum Effect 



PROPER 

m6tjon , 


--^^-^-^ 


RADIAL 
VELGGITY 


■^^^_>_ 




- ■-^^''^'^ 


^^^^ ■ - ■ 


■ -^ ■• -■ ^'^^-^ 









7. ^' 




■ ■ ~r^ 


*..___^ _^ 


'-^^^ ■■ 


. _j_ 0".0005 









0.01 KM./SEC. 





; LIGHj; V-TJ • ' . u- . 

. CURVE': . ^ ^:: ■ . — tl^ 
: Eclipse 1.2 days 


6.01 MAG 









Figure 3. — Three kinds of observational tests are presented for the detection of a planet 
similar to Jupiter revolving around a solar-type star 32 light-years distant from us. 
Even at best, the maximum effects (right) are very minute. 



it were associated with the nearest star, for the planet would be lost in 
the glare of the star's light. However, as Nancy G. Roman has sug- 
gested, a telescope installed in an artificial satellite would suffer much 
less from scattering of starlight in the earth's atmosphere and might 
be used for such a search. 

What theoretical reasoning can be applied to this problem ? Some 
30 years ago astronomers felt that our solar system was formed when 
the sun encountered another star. Since the average distance between 
two neighboring stars is very large, a close encounter of this kind is 
a very rare event, producing only one planetary system among many 
millions of stars. But it has since been shown that the collision theory 
of planet formation is untenable. 

Astronomers are now convinced that planets form from dust and gas 
that is either the remnant in the process of star formation or that has 
been acquired from the interstellar medium. If the cloud is massive 
enough, another star could be formed instead of planets. Thus, binary 
and planetary systems have apparently the same origin, and they have 
other properties in common. 

According to G. P. Kuiper, the average separation of all com- 
ponents in binary systems that have been studied is about 20 astro- 
nomical units, roughly the mean distance of the major planets from the 
sun. Also, there is wide range in the ratio of masses of binary star com- 
ponents, with a few as small as 10 times the ratio of Jupiter's mass to 
the sun's. Unseen companions with masses about 0.01 that of the 
sun have been found by K. A. Strand (61 Cygni) and Sarah Lee Lip- 
pincott (Lalande 21185). Since binary stars are very numerous, 
planetary systems should also occur frequently. 

625325 — 62 17 



248 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

We can also make, heuristically, a prediction regarding the stars 
that have a good chance of possessing planets. Years ago Otto Struve 
pointed out that the rapid rotation of early-type main-sequence stars 
did not occur in classes later than F5. In other words, the average 
angular momentum per unit mass of main-sequence stars suffers a 
conspicuous discontinuity at this spectral subdivision. A reasonable 
possibility to explain this is that planetary systems are formed aromid 
stars of later spectral types, the unobservable planets absorbing the 
excess angular momentmn in each case. 

The available evidence, therefore, suggests that most single stars 
on the main sequence between F6 and perhaps K5 have a good chance 
of supporting life of an advanced form on their planets. Only a 
few percent of all stars fall in this range. Within 16.3 light-years 
(5 parsecs) of the sun, there are 58 other individual stars, 5 of which 
are unseen companions. Of 26 single stars in this group, only 2 be- 
sides the sun fall within our limitations for supporting life : Epsilon 
Eridani, a K2 dwarf, and Tau Ceti, a G4: dwarf. 

Of course, the actual chance of intelligent life appearing is less 
than a few percent. Even if the size of a planet revolving within a 
habitable zone is right, its surface topography might not be. If the 
entire surface were water covered, for instance, a civilization like ours 
could not develop. Taking everything into consideration, I venture 
to state that no more than 1 to 2 percent of stars may have at one 
time or another supported intelligent life. On this basis, there are 
within 1,000 light-years a few thousand stars around which life of 
this nature could appear. 

For us on earth, a most interesting question is whether or not 
intelligent life exists elsewhere right now. What is the chance of 
finding extraterrestrial contemporaries? No one dares guess how 
long our civilization will endure. Granted that man does not destroy 
himself, he still has to face natural calamities, such as a recurrence 
of the ice ages. Will man's tendency to overspecialization bring about 
his downfall? I incline to believe that the lifetime of a technological 
civilization occupies only a very small fraction of the entire period 
of biological evolution. If so, two such civilizations in different 
worlds would scarcely be simultaneous. 

An interstellar journey will not be within our means for a long 
time to come. At the speed of artificial satellites that we have launched 
so far, it would take hundreds of thousands of years to cover the 10 
light-years of distance to Epsilon Eridani or Tau Ceti. Tliis leaves 
us with only radio communication as a possible means of contacting 
other intelligent beings. This problem has been treated in detail in 
an article on Project Ozma, by Frank D. Drake of the National Radio 
Astronomy Observatory, in Sky and Telescope for January 1960 



i 



LIFE IN THE UNIVERSE — ^HITANG 249 

(p, 140). So far, Project Ozma observations have given negative 
results. 

It is generally agreed among radio scientists that the best frequency 
to employ is that of the 21-cm. neutral hydrogen line. It has been 
suggested that the value of pi, or the fine structure constant, or any 
other dimensionless constant, be transmitted in order to distinguish 
our signal from natural sources of radio noise. I personally think 
a great effort of this kind inadvisable, however fundamental the con- 
stant might be. 

Instead, I suggest using simple numbers : 1, 2, 3, each represented 
by the corresponding number of dots. They are as good a sign of 
intelligence as any physical or biological constant. Then we could 
proceed to introduce the concept of equality and other algebraic sym- 
bols (as P. Morrison has also proposed). This can be done by coding 
such symbols and repeating a large number of examples, just as 
arithmetic is taught to children. At this stage the binary, decimal, 
or some other number system may be introduced, and finally the a?, y 
concept of locating a point on a plane. Once this is established, a 
means for interchanging information follows easily. 

While the chances of success in receiving intelligible signals from 
outer space are extremely small, even during a long search with larger 
and larger radio telescopes, it is worth trying because of its funda- 
mental importance in miderstanding the nature of living beings and 
its impact on our pliilosophical beliefs. 



X-rays From the Sun^ 



By Herbert Friedman 
VS. Naval Research Laboratory 



Only a few decades ago solar X-ray emission was unknown. The 
sun was viewed as a glowing sphere of hot gas radiating at a tem- 
perature of 6,000° K. and incapable of producing any significant flux 
of X-rays. Today, with information gained from experiments carried 
in rockets and satellites, we know that solar X-rays shape some of the 
major features of the ionosphere. Sporadic, explosive outbursts of 
X-rays are synchronized with solar flares and linked directly with 
radio fadeouts. More modest eruptions are associated with active 
prominences and coronal condensations. The stormy character of 
solar X-ray emission far exceeds that of any portion of the ultra- 
violet or visible spectrum, and is matched only by the violent outbursts 
observed at radio frequencies. 

At the time of a solar eclipse, a corona of faintly luminescent gas 
is visible above the disk. This thin white halo, with a slightly greenish 
cast, reaches millions of miles into space. The source of solar X-ray 
emission lies within the corona very near its base where the tempera- 
ture is of the order of a million degrees Kelvin. How the corona 
reaches this remarkably high temperature when the visible surface 
of the sun is only 6,000° K. is explainable in terms of the dissipation of 
shock-wave energy. Immediately below the surface of the sun, energy 
is transported outward by the violent convection of hydrogen gas. 
Starting as sound waves generated by turbulence within the hydrogen 
convection zone, they propagate outward, increasing in amplitude as 
the density decreases until shock waves develop. Energy is thus 
transferred from the interior to the corona. Because the corona is 
so thin, it radiates poorly and only a small fraction of the sun's energy 
need be dissipated in the corona to achieve very high temperatures. 

In the 25th annual James Arthur lecture on the sun,^ Dr. Leo Gold- 
berg described the earth's atmosphere as a barrier to astronomical 

^ The 27th annual James Arthur lecture on the sun, given under the auspices of the 
Smithsonian Institution on Feb. 2, 1961. 

* See Annual Report of the Smithsonian Institution for 1939, p. 285. 

251 



252 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

research in the ultraviolet and X-ray regions of the spectrum. Very 
soft X-rays (10 to 100 A.) cannot penetrate to less than 100 kni. above 
the ground. Harder X-rays (1 to 10 A.) reach progressively deeper 
levels down to the bottommost fringe of the ionosphere. At still 
shorter wavelengths, X-rays are sufficiently penetrating to be observed 
with balloon-borne apparatus. 

The history of solar X-ray measurements begins with the use of 
German V-2 rockets brought to White Sands inmaediately after World 
War II. One of the primary objectives of the rocket astronomy pro- 
gram initiated at that time was the study of the solar spectrum beyond 
the atmospheric barrier in the near ultraviolet, beginning at about 
3,000 A. It soon became evident that the spectral energy distribution 
declined so rapidly toward shorter wavelengths that photographic 
spectroscopy would experience great difficulty. X-ray measurements 
were therefore attempted with sensitive detectors such as Geiger 
counters and ionization chambers coupled with filters that provided 
spectral resolution in comparatively narrow wavelength intervals, for 
example, 2 to 8 A., 8 to 18 A., and 44 to 60 A. 

Although spectroscopy of the ultraviolet range has made tremen- 
dous strides in the past dozen years, our knowledge of the X-ray region 
is as yet confined to only the broad features. High-resolution spectra 
still remain to be achieved, but the goal no longer appears very far 
off and may be well within the reach of the first orbiting solar obser- 
vatories soon to be launched. 

X-ray photometry from rockets has been carried on by the author 
and his colleagues at the Naval Research Laboratory for more than 
a full sunspot cycle, beginning in 1949. In a typical experiment, the 
detector is mounted against an aperture in the skin of the rocket 
looking outward. Its view of space during the course of the flight 
depends entirely on the spin and yaw motion of the rocket. As the 
rocket traverses the upper atmosphere, signals are telemetered con- 
tinuously via a radio transmitter in the rocket to a receiA^er on the 
ground. When the spinning rocket reaches altitudes to which solar 
X-rays can penetrate, modulated signals appear in the record with a 
roll frequency maximizing whenever the detector looks closest to the 
direction to the sun. Essential to such an experiment is a visible 
photocell measurement, which permits the calculation of the aspect of 
the rocket at all times during the flight and therefrom the appro- 
priate correction for the dependence of X-ray signals on the angle of 
incidence of the radiation. 

Near sunspot minimum, in 1953 and 1954, the rocket measurements 
indicated a marked reduction in X-ray emission below 20 A. In 
some experiments no emission at all was detected below 10 A. With 
the approach to solar maximum, the over-all X-ray flux increased, but 



X-RAYS FROM THE SUN — FRIEDMAN 253 

especially at the shorter wavelengths. In the 2 to 8 A. band, the mini- 
mmn-to-maximmn variation was a factor of several hundred; from 
8 to 20 A., at least a factor of 45 ; in the 44 to 60 A. band, the variation 
was approximately sevenfold. Assmning that the X-ray spectrmn 
had a gray body distribution, it was not possible to fit the measure- 
ments in these three wavelength intervals by a single temperature. 
The longer wavelength emission could be adequately described by a 
temperature between 0.5 and 1 X 10^ degrees K., but the shorter wave- 
length range, below 20 A., required a temperature closer to 2X10^ 
degrees K. At the higher temperature, the gray body emission needed 
to supply the observed counting rate at 8 to 20 A. contained only 1 
percent of the flux deduced for the 20 to 100 A. range from the longer 
wavelength measurements. It was concluded, therefore, that the 
shortest wavelength X-ray emission was associated with local, hotter 
regions occupying no more than 1 percent of the volume of the corona, 
in which the temperature was of the order of 2 million degrees K. 
These hotter regions were presumably distributed within a corona 
whose general temperature did not exceed 1 million degrees K. Fig- 
ure 1 is a plot of the solar spectral energy distribution illustrating the 
results of these measurements. The curve marked "A-16" is for 
1953 and "A-43" for 1956. They represent the minimum and maxi- 
mum fluxes observed during the past sunspot cycle. The shaded 
region added to the A-16 curve is the increment of flux measured be- 
low 20 A. and attributed to localized hot spots at 2 million degrees K. 

Practically all our knowledge of the ionosphere before direct rocket 
measurements were available was based on radio soundings. A pulse 
of radio waves entering a cloud of electrons is reflected when the 
density of the electrons reaches a critical value proportional to the 
square of the frequency. The time required for the pulse to travel to 
the ionosphere and back to ground is a measure of the height of 
the reflecting region. At certain critical frequencies there appear 
abrupt discontinuities in reflection heights as though the electron 
density were distributed in several well-defined layers. These layers 
are named "E," "Fi," and "Fg." In the lowest region of the iono- 
sphere, named "D," the electron density is too small to reflect mega- 
cycle-per-second frequencies. The lower ionosphere normally acts 
as an absorbing region for these short waves and a good reflector for 
very long waves, such as the static generated by thunderstorms. 

The variation of intensity with altitude showed that solar X-rays 
were absorbed in the E-region of the ionosphere between 100 and 
140 km. Furthermore, the X-ray energy absorbed there appeared 
adequate to account for a major portion of the ionization. A direct 
check on the relationship between X-rays absorbed in the E-region 
and the resulting electron density there can be obtained by comparing 



254 



ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 




100 
ANGSTROMS 

Figure 1. — Solar spectral energy distribution below 2,000 A. Solid lines represent rocket 
measurements. Dashed curves labeled with temperatures represent black-body dis- 
tributions. Dot-dash curve is Elwert's (1960) theoretical continuum. 



X-ray fluxes with the observed variation in critical frequency of 
the E-region. According to the theory of the formation of an iono- 
spheric layer, the critical frequency is proportional to the fourth root 
of the intensity of ionizing radiation. The observed sevenfold varia- 
tion in total flux from minimum to maximum would therefore produce 
a factor of 7 ^/*, or 1.6 in the critical frequency for E-region if X-rays 
were the sole source. Using values of the critical frequency corre- 
sponding to the times of rocket flights, the variations were from about 
2.7 mc./sec. to 4.1 mc./sec., a factor of 1.5, in good agreement with 
the variation expected from the X-ray observations. Actually, there 
is an important contribution to the ionization of E-region by solar 
ultraviolet radiation, and it is theoretically difficult to evaluate the 
relative importance of X-ray and ultraviolet contributions. How- 
ever, an analysis based on the best information available at the pres- 
ent time indicates that the X-ray influence is predominant. 



X-RAYS FROM THE SUN — FRIEDMAN 255 

Observations over more than two sunspot cycles have clearly estab- 
lished correlations between the fluxes of ionizing radiation and active 
centers on the sun. If the ionizing radiation were uniformly dis- 
tributed over the face of the sun, an eclipse would lead to a smooth 
decline in the ionospheric electron density to a minimum value at 
totality, followed by a smooth recovery to normal in very much the 
same fashion, followed by the visible light curve. Instead, an irregu- 
lar course of ionospheric electron-density changes has been noted in 
almost all observations conducted during eclipses. Monthly averages 
of critical frequencies show detailed agreement with the pattern fol- 
lowed by monthly values of sunspot numbers, indicating that at 
least part of the ionizing flux emanates from the vicinity of sunspots. 
Prior to 1958, however, no direct identification of localized sources of 
X-ray emission in the corona had been made. 

The eclipse of October 12, 1958, offered an opportunity to launch 
rockets bearing ultraviolet and X-ray detectors to observe the dis- 
tribution of emission sources over the disk and to determine whether 
any residual emission of X-rays or ultraviolet radiation was detectable 
at totality. During the totality phase of an eclipse, the E-region of 
the ionosphere does not disappear completely as would be expected 
if the source of the ionizing radiation were totally obscured and 
recombination were very fast. The residual ionization could be at- 
tributed to a sluggishness of the recombination process or to a portion 
of the ionizing radiation originating at sufficient height in the corona 
to bypass the edge of the moon. 

The rocket experiment was carried out from shipboard near the 
Danger Islands of the South Pacific. Solid-propellant rockets were 
mounted on the helicopter deck of the U.S.S. Point De-fiance and were 
launched at the appropriate times and in such a direction as to carry 
them through the eclipse shadow at E-region altitudes. Each rocket 
was equipped with X-ray detectors sensitive to two wavelength bands, 
8 to 18 A. and 44 to 60 A., and a Lyman-a ionization chamber. Signals 
from these detectors and from aspect indicators were telemetered to 
the ground station aboard ship throughout the flight. Two rockets 
were launched during totality and indicated about 0,05 percent residual 
Lyman-a flux and from 10 to 13 percent residual X-ray flux. 

A second objective of the experiment was to identify localized 
sources of emission over the disk. Figure 2 shows the optical dis- 
tribution of active regions on the day of the rocket eclipse experiment. 
The area of the disk near the east limb contained a number of active 
regions identified by plages, whereas an equivalent area bordering 
the west limb was almost free of activity. Rockets were fired so as to 
observe exposed crescents on the east and west limbs before second 
contact and after third contact, as marked by the curves NN8.59F 



256 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

and NN8.62F in the figure. The east limb crescent, containing the 
plage areas, was observed to be six times as bright in X-ray emission 
as the west limb crescent, which was almost clear of plage activity 
(making allowance for the relative disk areas exposed). 

In principle. X-ray image- forming devices of high light-gathering 
power can be achieved in the form of a grazing incidence reflection 
telescope or a zone plate, but no such devices have yet been perfected 
for use in rockets. Calculations, based on the intensity measured with 
X-ray photometers and the evidence of concentrated sources derived 
from the rocket eclipse experiment, indicated that a simple pinhole 
camera could produce an X-ray image with a resolution of about a 
tenth of a solar diameter during the flight time of an Aerobee-Hi 
rocket if the camera were mounted on a pointing control to aim it 
continuously at the sun. The first photograph of the sun in its X-ray 
emission was obtained in this manner on April 19, 1960. The camera 
was 6 inches long, with a pinhole of 0.005 inch in diameter. To ex- 
clude visible and ultraviolet light, the pinhole was covered by a plastic 
film of Parlodion, which was overcoated with an evaporated film of 
aluminum. This combination transmitted much of the X-ray spec- 
trum below 50 A. 

The X-ray photograph is reproduced in the upper left-hand portion 
of figure 3. The biaxial pointing control which carried the camera 
did not compensate for rotation about the smi-camera axis, with the 
result that the precession of the rocket caused the image to rotate and 
discrete features to be drawn into extended arcs. Furthermore, the 
sense of rotation varied during the course of the flight so that the 
image was first turned about 20° clockwise and then returned counter- 
clockwise to complete the full arc of 160° extent. In spite of the 
smearing thereby produced, a clear correlation could be observed be- 
tween the X-ray emission regions and the visible plage regions on the 
sun. 

By direct measurement of the image, the mean diameter of the 
X-ray outline of the sun was found to be 5 percent greater than the 
diameter of the optical disk. The maximum diameter was 6 percent 
greater. Thus, within the limited definition of the camera, the X-ray 
emission was observed to extend to about 0.06 solar radii (43,000 km.) 
above the visible limb. All the measured X-ray regions in the photo- 
graph were about the size of the resolution circle when allowance was 
made for the smearing effect of the camera rotation. It appears that 
the regions of strong X-ray emission are smaller than the correspond- 
ing visible plage regions. From the fact that the sizes of the X-ray 
regions on the limb were nearly the same as those near the center of 
the disk, it would seem that the X-ray sources have a radial extension 
comparable to the surface projection. 



X-RAYS FROM THE SUN — FRIEDMAN 

N /NN8.59F 



257 



NNa62F. 




LEGEND 




CORONAL GREEN LINE OBSERVATIONS 
CORONAL RED LINE OBSERVATIONS 
CORONAL YELLOW LINE OBSERVATIONS 
PLAGE REGION 
INTENSE PLAGE REGION 
DARK FILAMENT 
PROMfNENCES ON SUN'S LIMB 



Figure 2. — Solar-activity map on day of rocket eclipse experiment, October 12, 1958. 

A strong correlation is known to exist between visible plage regions 
and the regions of origin of the slowly varying component of radio 
microwave emission. Solar radio emissions in the decimeter wave- 
length range also correlate closely with variations in E-region elec- 
tron density. The lower right-hand portion of figure 3 contains a 
radioheliograph of the sun at a wavelength of 9.1 cm., obtained at 
Stanford University with a microsteradian, pencil-beam interferom- 
eter, having a resolution of 3.5 minutes of arc. It is interesting to 
compare the radioheliograph with the X-ray disk photograph be- 



258 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

cause both types of radiation require million-degree sources and vary 
in intensity with the square of the electron density. To compare the 
radio map with the X-ray picture, it was photographed while rotated 
about its center to match the motion of the X-ray camera during the 
rocket flight. The resulting smeared radio image is shown in the 
lower left corner of figure 3. Its major features closely resemble the 
smeared features of the X-ray photograph. In order to enhance the 
similarity, the contrast of the radioheliograph was heightened by 
eliminating the two lowest isophote intervals of the original map. 
In fact, one of the more important differences is the much greater 
contrast between active regions and background in the X-ray picture 
than in the radio picture. The bright, nearly central, region of the 
X-ray image is about 80 times as intense as the quiet background when 
allowance is made for the effect of smearing, and at least four-fifths 
of the emission is concentrated in the active areas. In comparison, 
the integrated radio emission from active areas is roughly equal to 
the background emission. The X-ray photograph also matches fairly 
well with a 21-cm. radioheliograph, but the detailed correspondence 
is not as clear as the 9.1-cm. map. Studies of the relationship between 
E-layer ionization and the solar decimeter wave flux show that a good 
correlation exists between 3 cm. and 30 cm. On a short time scale, the 
best correlation seems to occur in the range 10 to 15 cm. 

The X-ray emission and the microwave emission are both asso- 
ciated with regions of greater than normal density in the corona above 
sunspot groups. These coronal condensations are optically brighter 
in proportion to the electron density. They appear to have semi- 
spherical or elliptical forms without any resolvable internal structure. 
So-called permanent condensations measure 1 to 2 minutes in arc, 
range in density from 10^ to 10^° particles per cc, and persist for 
several days. Sporadic condensations may form out of the permanent 
condensations. The diameter of a sporadic condensation is typically 
about 0.5 minute of arc ; its lifetime may be minutes to hours ; and it 
is accompanied by the formation of loop prominences and the emis- 
sion of bursts of centimeter wave emission and solar flares. 

Originally, the condensations were thought to be at very elevated 
temperatures, as high as 6 or 7X10^ degrees K., but they are now 
believed to be at near normal coronal temperatures in the range 
1.6X10^ to 0.06X10^ degrees K. The association of X-ray emission 
with the coronal condensations implies an upper limit of the order of 
2 X 10^ degrees K. for the temperature of a condensation. It has been 
argued that thermal conductivity in a condensation is so high that 
it cannot maintain a high temperature relative to its surroundings. 
If a condensation were at a temperature of 6 X 10^ degrees, as origi- 
nally proposed, it would lose all its energy to the neighboring corona 



SOLAR X-RAY PHOTOGRAPH 
NRL, APRIL 19. I960 




DENSITY CONTOUR MAP OF 
SOLAR X-RAY PHOTOGRAPH 



DENSITY INTENSITY 
8 10 

7 
6 
5 
4 
3 
2 
I I 




-OPTICAL SUN 
-MEAN X-RAY SUN 



OPTICAL SUN 

-1- 
RESOLUTION DISC 



ROTATED RADI0HELI06RAPH 



RADIOHELIOGRAPH 

9.1 CM 
(STANFORD UNIV) 





(»>': 

% 



Figure 3. — Comparison of X-ray solar-disk photograph with radioheHograph. Lower left 
image was produced by photographing radioheHograph while it was being rotated in 
manner analogous to rotation of rocket camera during its exposure. 



X-RAYS FROM THE SUN — FRIEDMAN 259 

ill less than 20 minutes. On the other hand, if a permanent condensa- 
tion were actually slightly cooler than the normal corona, the excess 
energy radiated because of its higher density could readily be replaced 
by heat conduction from the surrounding corona. To help us under- 
stand such details of the structure of the corona, we may look for- 
ward to the achievement of X-ray photographs of much higher 
resolution. Satellites will offer the possibility of mapping such fine 
detail because of the longer observing times available. 

Superposed on the slowly varying X-ray emission associated with 
plages are short-lived, transient outbursts synchronized with flare 
activity. Flares have only very rarely been observed in white light. 
"When viewed in the red light of hydrogen H-a, a flare appears to de- 
velop with great speed. In a matter of minutes an area of the order of 
one-thousandth of the solar disk may increase tenfold in brightness. 
Intense radio noise is generated and shortwave radio communications 
are instantaneously blacked out until the flare disappears. Flares 
cover a tremendous spectrmn in size from those just barely detectable, 
so-called microflares, to the most catastrophic explosions. These latter 
are accompanied by streams of particles of cosmic-ray energies which 
arrive within a matter of minutes at the earth and streams of slower 
moving plasma that may require a day or two to reach the earth where 
they are manifested by magnetic storms and auroral displays. 

The earliest attempts to detect flare X-rays were made in the summer 
of 1956 with the Kockoon, a combination of a small, solid-propellant 
rocket, carried aloft on a Skyhook balloon. The procedure was to 
launch a Rockoon in the morning from a ship at sea and permit it 
to float at 80,000 feet. When a flare was detected optically or indi- 
rectly indicated by a shortwave f adeout, the rocket was fired by radio 
command. It was unfortunately necessary to fire the rocket at the 
end of the day even if a flare did not occur. Although this approach 
to the problem was not efficient, it succeeded in measuring the emission 
of one small flare during the course of the expedition and clearly re- 
vealed the importance of the accompanying X-ray flux. The result of 
that particular measurement is included in figure 1 and identified as the 
portion of the X-ray spectrum associated with a Class 1 flare. 

In 1957 two-stage, rail-launched, solid-propellant rockets capable 
of transporting substantial payloads to ionospheric altitudes became 
available. Experiments were conducted with the Nike-Deacon and 
the Nike- Asp during the IGY. The latter rocket had the capability 
of carrying a 50-pound payload to about 150 miles. Instrumented 
rockets could be kept in constant readiness, requiring only the push 
of a button to launch them when a flare was observed. With this ap- 
proach, a number of measurements of X-ray and ultraviolet emission 
were obtained during solar flares. At the peak of a moderately large 



260 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

flare, the entire X-ray spectrum was observed to brighten to many 
times its normal intensity. At the shortest wavelengths, the increases 
were orders of magnitude greater, although the energy content was 
only a small portion of the total X-ray output. X-ray quanta with 
energies up to 125,000 electron volts appeared, whereas the normal 
short-wavelength limit was of the order of a few thousand electron 
volts. From the spectral distribution of the observed X-ray emission, 
it is possible to speculate about the mechanism involved in its produc- 
tion. If it is assumed that the enhanced X-ray emission resulted from 
a heating of the coronal gas, a temperature as high as 10^ degrees K. 
would be required. Alternatively, the spectrum could have been pro- 
duced by streams of suprathermal electrons injected into cooler gas at 
a temperature not exceeding 10^ degrees K. To choose between such 
widely divergent models will require much more detailed spectral 
information than has been obtained thus far. The energy radiated 
as X-rays represents a major portion of the total energy output of a 
solar flare and is entirely adequate to explain the accompanying ion- 
ospheric disturbances, such as the shortwave fadeout and sudden 
phase anomaly. 

During the year 1960, a major step forward in the study of X-ray 
emission from solar flares was accomplished by the launching of the 
first satellite observatory by the U.S. Naval Research Laboratory. 
The satellite, called Solar Radiation I (1960 Eta 2), carried two 
ionization chambers to measure solar Lyman-a (1216 A.) and X-rays 
(2-8 A.) . These detectors were momited on the equator of the spher- 
ical satellite, to which was imparted a high spin rate upon separation 
from the launching vehicle. Each detector viewed the sun once per 
revolution, giving a spin-modulated signal which was transmitted 
continuously. 

Figure 4 illustrates a sample record obtained during the passage of 
the satellite over Blossom Point, Md., on August 6, 1960, almost simul- 
taneously with the start of a Class 1 flare, which lasted 18 minutes. 
Lyman-a signals are indicated by upward deflections from the mid- 
scale zero level. X-ray signals deflect downward. On the pass illus- 
trated by the first strip of telemetered signals, the sun was quiet. A 
steady Lyman-a signal is indicated, but only the barest trace of X-ray 
intensity. As the satellite returned one orbit later, telemetry recep- 
tion began almost in coincidence with the eruption of the flare at 
1506 UT. At 1509 UT, the X-ray emission began to increase. Ion- 
ospheric observations and cosmic-noise measurements showed simul- 
taneous starts of various ionospheric disturbances. Between 1510 and 
1511 UT, while a microwave outburst occurred, the X-ray flux in- 
creased rapidly to full scale and remained at that level until flare 
maximum in H-a was reached at 1514 UT. Shortly afterward, the 



X-RAYS FROM THE SUN — FRIEDMAN 



261 







' »;t 


-r:, iffitty^Ji- 






^r^- 


— -'I =^- -t^ 


'-^•, 






J 


'. ' - .- ' 


^i ' 


■" • 1 .• ' 






~ 










J' 




^ 


: ,' 













M 



J 









u 






'-' 




■ '1^ 

1 - * t" 

t tin 
( - - ^ 
-J - 



Pi 



x: 



f^4 



262 ANNTJAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN mSTITUTION, 1961 

satellite passed out of range of the ground station. On the next pass, 
the sun was again quiet. At 1701 UT, the record showed only the 
faintest trace of X-ray emission. Throughout the entire sequence of 
events the Lyman-a flux remained unchanged. 

Many observations are available from the records of Solar Radiation 
I covering the beginning and ending phases of flares. The enhanced 
X-ray emission started with the visible flare in every instance and 
terminated with the decay of the flare. In every case where the X-ray 
flux exceeded 5 X 10"^ erg cm."^ s"^ in the 2 to 8 A. bandwidth of the 
X-ray ion chamber, a shortwave fadeout was observed. On July 
24, 1960, there occurred a sudden disappearance of a large prominence 
seen above the limb between 0900 UT and 1200 UT. As this event 
progressed, enhanced X-ray emission was observed on six successive 
telemetered records, the mean flux reaching 5 X 10"^ erg cm."^ s'^ at 1020 
UT. There were no flares visible on the disk at that time. 

More sophisticated solar X-ray observatories will undoubtedly be 
placed in orbit in the near future. It will be extremely interesting 
to study the detailed correlations between the radio-noise spectra ac- 
companying these flares and X-ray spectra. As was described by 
Dr. Alan Maxwell in the 26th James Arthur lecture,^ the radio emission 
takes a variety of forms associated with thermal excitation, plasma 
oscillations, and synchrotron emission. Thus far, the closest associa- 
tion appears to exist between X-ray emission and the centimeter- wave 
radiation which results from thermal excitation. 



« See Annual Report of the Smithsonian Institution for 1959, p. 299. 



The Challenge of Space Exploration' 



By Robert C. Seamans, Jr. 

Associate Administrator 
National Aeronautics and Space Administration 



It is here proposed to discuss the program of the National Aero- 
nautics and Space Administration (NASA) for space exploration — a 
program designed around the concept that men must participate di- 
rectly in this exploration. Let me say at the outset that there is no 
dichotomy between manned and unmanned spaceflight in NASA's 
thinking and planning. Each of these approaches contributes im- 
portant information, techniques, and developments to the other. We 
are convinced that concurrent advancement of both unmanned and 
manned spaceflight will pay off in a total science and technology of 
far-reaching, even revolutionary, importance to mankind. 

WHY WE MUST ACCELERATE OUR SPACE PROGRAM 

I will first review the major reasons behind the President's decision 
to accelerate our space program, including the landing of a team of 
United States astronauts on the moon in this decade. The United 
States must make this effort for urgent scientific, technological, politi- 
cal, and economic reasons. In his May 25, 1961, state of the Union 
message. President Kennedy said : 

Now is the time to act, to talie longer strides — time for a great new American 
enterprise — time for this nation to take a clearly leading role in space achieve- 
ment ... I believe that the nation should commit itself to achieving the goal, 
Defore the decade is out, of landing a man on the moon and returning him safely 
to earth. 

Four major reasons underlie the national decision to marshal the 
resources required for leadership in space : 1, the quest for scientific 
knowledge ; 2, direct and immediate application of satellites into oper- 
ational systems; 3, the risk of delay in our space competition with 
Communism; and 4, the technological advances and stunulus to our 
economy that will emerge from the space effort. 

1 Address before the 1961 Air Force/Aerospace Corporation Symposium on Ballistic 
Missile and Aerospace Technology, Los Angeles, Calif., Aug. 29, 1961. The original 
presentation has here been somewhat updated. 

625325—62 18 263 



264 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

SCIENTIFIC KNOWLEDGE 

Space research is a vigorously expanding field, whose growth is 
comparable to the development of nuclear physics after World War II. 
It is a field which cuts across the established areas of astronomy and 
physics and the earth sciences, and draws together scientists of varied 
backgrounds. The close interaction and exchange of ideas among 
scientists from many different fields have proved to be highly 
stimulating. 

One of the goals of the NASA scientific program involves lunar 
exploration, manned and unmanned. From the scientific standpoint, 
exploration of the moon is of great importance. The moon may hold 
the answers to some of the key questions in science. How was the 
solar system created? How did it develop and change? Where 
did life originate? The moon is devoid of atmosphere in the ter- 
restrial sense. Having neither winds nor rains, its surface is almost 
changeless. Thus the moon offers scientists a chance to study the 
very early matter of the solar system in practically the form in which 
it existed billions of years ago. 

The great volume of United States research in the space sciences 
demonstrates the intense interest of American scientists. Data flow- 
ing into astronomy and the earth sciences from United States space 
experiments are providing significantly new ideas and concepts to 
these traditional disciplines. 

DIRECT APPLICATIONS 

Space itself, when instrumented by man, will provide system capa- 
bilities not previously possible. Early returns from NASA experi- 
ments are already leading to early implementation of communications 
and meteorological satellite systems. 

In 1960 NASA's Echo I passive communications satellite appealed 
to the world's imagination. The huge aluminized plastic sphere has 
been seen by people in many countries. Echo proved that it is pos- 
sible to commmiicate between distant areas on the earth by reflecting 
radio signals from a satellite. 

Private companies have shown interest both in the Echo concept 
and in "repeater" satellites that can receive messages at one point 
over the earth's surface and retransmit them to ground receiving sta- 
tions thousands of miles distant. Satellite communications will make 
worldwide telephone and television services realities and will accom- 
modate growth of global conmiunications. This enhanced communi- 
cation could well be a bond drawing people of the world closer 
together. 

NASA's Tiros series of satellites has demonstrated the possibilities 
of vastly more accurate and longer-range weather forecasting. Tiros 



SPACE EXPLORATION — SEAMANS 265 

I transmitted nearly 23,000 television pictures of the earth's cloud 
patterns. Tieos II, launched in November 1960, has transmitted more 
than 40,000 pictures and has reported important information about 
the atmosphere and the radiation of solar heat back from the earth. 

The Weather Bureau made use in 1961 of Tiros III pictures of 
storm Eliza in the Pacific and hurricane Anna in the Atlantic. 
NASA also used Tikos III for weather support of Astronaut Gris- 
som's July 21, 1961, Mercury suborbital flight. Twice a day as the 
satellite passed over the Caribbean, one of its two TV cameras was 
triggered to report weather conditions in the area of the flight. Also, 
when Major Grissom was briefed just prior to his flight, he was shown 
TV pictures obtained from Tiros for visual comparison during the 
actual flight. 

According to the House Committee on Science and Astronautics, 
"An improvement of only 10 percent in accuracy [of weather fore- 
casting] could result in savings totaling hundreds of millions of dol- 
lars annually to farmers, builders, airlines, shipping, the tourist trade, 
and many other enterprises." 

RISK OF DELAY 

It is not my place to discuss military missions, but there is an 
important interchange of components and vehicles between the NASA 
and the Department of Defense programs. United States mastery 
of space is essential insurance against finding ourselves with a tech- 
nology inferior to that the Communists will develop as they press 
forward on the space frontier. If we allow them to surpass us, their 
space technology in its military aspects could jeopardize our security. 

In addition to potential direct military conflicts, the free societies 
are in deadly competition with the Communists for the support of 
the uncommitted peoples of the world. Space activity has great 
emotional appeal, and we cannot afford the risk of being passed or 
appearing to be passed. Today, prestige is one of the most important 
elements of international relations. Essential is the belief of other 
nations that we have capability and determination to carry out what- 
ever we declare seriously that we intend to do. 

In the minds of millions, dramatic space achievements have become 
today's symbol of tomorrow's scientific and technical supremacy. 
There is, without a doubt, a tendency to equate space and the future. 
Therefore, space is one of the fronts upon which President Kennedy 
and his administration have chosen to act broadly, vigorously, and 
with continuous purpose. No other single field offers us the oppor- 
tunity to gain more of what we need abroad and at the same time to 
achieve such a wealth of both practical and scientific results at home. 



266 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

STIMULUS TO ECONOMY 

Onr Nation needs the stimulus, the knowledge, and the products 
that will evolve as we carry out our program of space exploration. 
The influence of the technical progress that will come into being 
through the integrating force and drive of a major space effort will be 
felt throughout the economy. Many of the instruments, equipment, 
power sources, and techniques that we devise to make space expeditions 
possible will be adaptable to other uses. The result will be substantial 
scientific advances and a variety of new consumer goods and indus- 
trial processes that will return tremendous benefits to us in practi- 
cally every profession and activity. 

Two decades ago the theme of the Temporary National Economic 
Committee hearings was that America's frontiers had closed and that 
this was what had caused the stagnation of the thirties. All frontiers 
then seemed to have been passed, all new territories explored, with 
very little left for inquiring intelligence beyond applying and de- 
veloping what has already been discovered. Psychologists and philos- 
ophers have recognized the need of man's mind for new frontiers to 
cross. In this connection, manned and unmanned exploration of 
space is already stimulating basic and applied research throughout 
our educational, governmental, and industrial systems. The concept 
of an eternally shut-in human race has been proved superficial. The 
prospect of exploring space is providing the catalyst and tonic for 
new adventures of the mind and spirit. 

UNMANNED SPACE FLIGHT 

Since January 31, 1958, this country has successfully launched 46 
earth satellites, 2 solar satellites, and 2 deep space probes. A recent 
one is Explorer XII which is making simultaneous measurements of 
many aspects of the space environment between altitudes of about 
200 and 50,000 miles from the earth. The early years of space ex- 
ploration have provided scientific knowledge important to direct ap- 
plication of satellites in operational systems for communication and 
weather forecasting, and have contributed to the technology needed 
for more advanced manned and unmanned spacecraft to come. 

Some of the scientific findings are : 

Discovery of two intense radiation zones trapped around the earth — 
the Van Allen belts. 

Determination that the earth is slightly pear shaped with the stem 
at the North Pole. 

New data regarding the makeup of the fields of magnetism in space. 
For example, Explorer X, a 78-pound NASA satellite, transmitted 
highly meaningful data on solar-terrestrial relationships — such as 
magnetic fields and solar winds. 



SPACE EXPLORATION — SEAMANS 267 

Discovery that sunlight exerts appreciable physical pressure on 
objects in space. This pressure is shifting the orbit of the Vanguard 
I satellite about a mile per year and has affected the orbit of the 100- 
foot-diameter Echo I satellite at a rate 300 times greater. 

Among our most successful experiments to date has been the Pioneer 
series of space probes. Pioneer V, for example — lamiched into solar 
orbit on March 11, 1960 — was tracked into space to a distance of 22.5 
million miles, still the greatest distance any manmade object has been 
tracked. Pioneer V sent back scientific data on conditions in space 
until communication contact was lost on June 26, 1960. This space 
probe gave us new and valuable information about cosmic rays, the 
earth's magnetic field, and solar "storms" and evidence of the existence 
of a large "ring current" circulating around the earth at altitudes of 
about 30,000 to 60,000 miles. 

Advanced launch vehicles are becoming available for both scientific 
missions and operational systems. They will have greatly improved 
load-carrying capability for unmanned space experiments. For ex- 
ample, detailed plans have been made and work has begun on an 
Orbiting Geophysical Observatory, based on the use of the Agena. 
This observatory will be one of our first standardized satellites, with 
a stock-model structure, basic power supply, attitude control, teleme- 
try, and a command system. Its modular compartments are capable 
of carrying 50 different geophysical experiments on a single mission. 
The observatory itself will be about 6 feet long by 3 feet square. The 
two solar "paddles" which collect energy from the sun will be about 
6 feet square. The satellite will weigh 1,000 pounds and will include 
150 pounds of scientific equipment. 

NASA's plans for extending unmanned space exploration to the 
moon and beyond are maturing. Eanger spacecraft — successors to 
the one flown in a test on August 23, 1961 — will land instruments on 
the moon. These instruments will determine the nature and extent of 
tremors and measure the force of gravity on the lunar surface. 

Following Ranger will come Surveyor, a spacecraft that will be 
able to make a so-called "soft landing" on the moon. More delicate 
scientific instruments than those in Ranger can thus be employed. 
Surveyor will have aboard scientific instruments, including drills and 
tapes, to analyze the lunar surface and to determine its makeup. At 
the same time, high-resolution television cameras will transmit to 
earth pictures of the lunar terrain. 

Also underway is a spacecraft that will fly close to Venus and Mars, 
land later perhaps other, more distant planets. This spacecraft, 
called Mariner, will carry instruments to measure planetary atmos- 
phere, surface temperatures, rotation rates, magnetic fields, and sur- 
rounding radiation regions. 



268 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

The NASA experimental program for developing operational sys- 
tems includes, as already stated, communication and meteorological 
satellite projects. Our communications satellite program encom- 
passes a coordination of passive experiments as well as investigations 
with active repeaters at medium altitudes — 2,000 to 4,000 miles — and 
at synchronous altitude. NASA has arranged for two experimental 
projects at medium altitudes, one under Government contract and one 
financed by private industry. Both experiment satellites will include, 
in addition to the communication payload, instruments for measuring 
the effects of radiation on performance and life expectancy of the 
payload. Ground stations in this comitry, Europe, and South Amer- 
ica will be employed for both projects. 

A synchronous orbit system may provide world coverage, with 
fewer satellites, thus avoiding large costs and complexities of tracking 
and switching. We face technical difficulties, however, in placing and 
maintaining satellites in such orbits for long periods. NASA is 
initiating a series of experiments that will employ 40- or 50-pound pay- 
loads in synchronous orbits. The ground facilities which the Army 
has been developing for its Project Advent have been made available 
to NASA for the synchronous satellite experiment. 

The Tiros series of meteorological experiments will be followed by 
a series using an earth-stabilized spacecraft — called Nimbus — in polar 
orbit. The Weather Bureau of the Department of Commerce, the 
responsible organization for United States weather- forecasting activi- 
ties, is following through on an operational meteorological satellite 
system based on Nimbus. As agent for the Weather Bureau, NASA 
will specify the launch vehicles and spacecraft, conduct the launch 
operations, and control the satellites in space. 

MANNED SPACEFLIGHT IS ESSENTIAL 

Frequently I have been asked why we are preparing to send men 
on hazardous spaceflights when instrumented satellites and probes 
have proved so versatile and have returned such quantities of infor- 
mation on the near-space environment of the earth and on conditions 
in the vast reaches of deep space. 

First, integration of a human pilot into an onboard spacecraft sys- 
tem greatly improves reliability. The man can make not only in- 
flight tests but also in-flight repairs. We have striking examples of 
this in missions of NASA's X-15 rocket airplane which has been flying 
to the fringes of space and has achieved a speed of over 4,000 miles 
per hour. In at least 8 out of 38 X-15 flights to date, flights would 
have failed without a pilot in the cockpit to correct malfunctions of 
equipment, instruments, or powerplant. In at least as many other 
cases, if X-15 missions had been unmanned, we would have obtained 



SPACE EXPLORATION — SEAMANS 269 

no information because either instruments or telemetry failed. The 
X-15 pilot, however, was able to land with valuable flight infomiation 
recorded by his own senses. 

Second, while instruments can perform many tasks of sensing and 
measuring better than men, the statistical information gathered and 
transmitted to earth by these devices constitutes only a part of the 
basic research necessary for understanding the larger realities of 
space. The most advanced apparatus can perform only as it is pro- 
gramed to do. Instruments have no flexibility to meet unforeseen 
situations. Scientific data acquired in space mechanically must be 
balanced by on-the-spot human senses, human reasoning, and by the 
power of judgment compounded of these human elements. 

A man's capacity for storing information is enormous. He requires 
a minimum of programing. He can change his mind without elab- 
orate and time-consuming reprograming. His mind is an excellent 
filter, discarding redundant data with great speed. Man also far out- 
strips any computer in the ability to make decisions. In this connec- 
tion, I should like to quote what Dr. Carl Sagan, of the Department 
of Astronomy, University of California, recently wrote to Senator 
Paul Douglas of Illinois, to emphasize scientific reasons for manned 
spaceflight. 

The scientific value [of spaceflight] comes when the men perform scientific 
tasks. There are large numbers of mineralogical, microbiological, and astro- 
nomical questions which ti'aiued scientific personnel on the moon will be able to 
answer far more reliably than any presently conceived automatic instruments. . . . 

I feel strongly that, while an enormous amount of very significant scientific 
information can be obtained by unmanned vehicles, there are certain problems 
of the greatest significance which may well elude any unmanned system. If 
indigenous life exists on the planet Mars — and the bulk of contemporary evidence 
suggests that this is indeed the case — any but the most preliminary investiga- 
tions will require a human experimenter. 

It is very difficult to imagine a sophisticated experimental program on the 
biochemistry, morphology, physiology, genetics, ecology, or behavior of even 
simple extraterrestrial organisms carried out by a preprogramed instrumented 
package. If the extraterrestrial organisms are very different from familiar life- 
forms — and with 5 billion years of independent evolution, this may well be 
true — it is possible that an instrumented landing vehicle will not even be able 
to identify them as alive. A human scientist who can draw conclusions . . . 
on the spot is an enormous asset in all aspects of lunar and planetary 
exploration. . . . 

Third, w^e must recognize that manned flight in space has a much 
greater impact on the world's populace than unmanned flight. 

The United States has congratulated the Soviet Union on the orbital 
flights of Cosmonauts Gagarin and Titov. These achievements did 
not surprise us. We had been expecting them. Because the Russians 
have a significant lead on large boosters, we should be prepared for 
other Soviet "firsts" in space in the immediate future. This serves to 



270 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

underline the urgency of President Kennedy's decision to accelerate 
our own manned space program. 

Finally, it must be realized that in the long run man cannot, by 
his very nature, be kept out of space. The same drive tliat led Colum- 
bus to explore the outer reaches of the known world will induce modern 
man to explore the deeps of the solar system. 

MANNED SPACE FLIGHT 

The historic flights of American Astronauts Alan Shepard and 
Virgil Grissom on May 5 and July 21, 1961, respectively, were so 
completely reported that I shall not repeat the details. As you know, 
these flights were important steps in Project JMercury, which is the 
first phase in the United States program for manned spaceflight. 

The spaceflights of Astronauts Shepard and Grissom were made to 
test the man and the Mercury spacecraft, and to determine the quality 
of the vehicle and its systems and man's ability to handle them in 
space. In other words, the flights were made to learn how the astro- 
naut, his capsule, and his equipment can best function together, as 
preliminary steps to putting an astronaut in orbit around the earth. 

The value of these preliminary flights is attested by the success 
of Astronaut John Glenn's orbital flight on February 20, 1962, in 
which the initial objective of Project Mercury was achieved. Fur- 
ther three-orbit 4i/2-hour flights are planned in Project Mercury. 
Then late this year or early in 1963 we will begin flights with a 
Mercury spacecraft modified so that it has the capability of remaining 
in orbit up to 24 hours. 

To follow Mercury, we are developing the two-man spacecraft 
Gemini, in which we will conduct orbital flights up to a week in dura- 
tion, and test out techniques of maneuvering and joining spacecraft 
in orbit about the earth. 

The third phase of our manned spaceflight program is called 
Project Apollo. The Apollo spacecraft will be large enough for liv- 
ing and working quarters to accommodate three men who will be able 
to operate in a "shirt-sleeves environment." The Apollo spacecraft 
will be injected into earth orbit by the Saturn launch vehicle which 
has an eight-cluster first stage with a thrust of 1,500,000 pounds, 
compared to the Russian booster with about 750,000 pounds of thrust, 
the Atlas with 360,000 pounds, and the Redstone with 78,000. The 
Redstone was used for the Shepard and Grissom flights, and the Atlas 
will be the booster for Mercury orbital flights. 

The Apollo-Saturn combination will provide a manned earth satel- 
lite, in which the three-man team can perform a great variety of scien- 
tific experiments while training for sustained spaceflight. Next will 
come voyages deeper into space including a three-man voyage around 



SPACE EXPLORATION — SEAMANS 271 

the moon and return to earth, and finally an actual moon landmg and 
return, planned late in this decade. 

The Saturn launch vehicle which is now under development will 
not provide the capability for circumlunar flight and lunar landing. 
In the near future, we will commence the development of larger 
launch vehicles. Implementation of this program will result in the 
investment of large sums for research, development, and capital equip- 
ment. We must select the vehicle configurations wisely in order to 
fulfill our immediate objectives and to maximize our capabilities for 
other possible missions involving large payloads. 

The design of the Apollo spacecraft itself must be kept as flexible 
as possible to meet the requirements of an orbiting laboratory, as well 
as circumlunar and lunar-landing flights. To achieve this flexibility, 
the so-called "modular concept" will be employed. In other words, 
various building blocks or units of the vehicle systems will be used for 
difl'erent phases of missions. The first component, which we call the 
"command center module," will house the crew during launching and 
entry. It will also serve as a flight control center for the remainder of 
missions. 

The second module is a propulsion unit. In earth-orbital flights, 
this unit will return the craft to earth under either normal or emer- 
gency conditions. It will also be used for maneuvering in orbit and 
for orbital rendezvous with other satellites. For circumlunar flights, 
the propulsion module will return the spacecraft to earth safely from 
any point along the lunar trajectory and will provide midcourse and 
terminal guidance corrections. In addition, the propulsion module 
will inject the Apollo spacecraft into an orbit around the moon and 
eject it from that orbit toward earth. For the lunar landing mission, 
the propulsion unit will serve as the takeoff stage. 

The third module is a propulsion stage that will decelerate the 
spacecraft as it approaches the moon, and will gently lower it to the 
moon's surface. 

For the earth-orbital laboratory an additional module may be added 
to the spacecraft to provide capacity for scientific instrumentation 
and for life support during a reasonably long-lived orbit. 

It is important to note that the command center module for lunar 
flights will have to be designed to permit entry into the atmosphere at 
25,000 miles per hour, or at nearly one and one-half times the speed of 
a satellite returning from orbit. Developing protection against entry 
heating will be one of our most difficult problems. The spacecraft 
must have a moderate amount of maneuverability within the atmos- 
phere to control the flight path and to allow landing at a preselected 
site. All designs being considered must be capable of surviving either 
ground or water landings. 



272 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

Among requirements for the Apollo system are the following : 

1. A life support system to provide a suitable environment for 
periods of several weeks. 

2. Radiation shielding to give sufficient protection during passage 
to and from the moon as well as on the lunar surface. 

3. A navigation system which will give position fixes, and which 
will compute the amount and direction of thrust for course correction 
when required. 

4. An attitude stabilization system to be used throughout the flight. 
This system will permit orientation of the spacecraft for thrust con- 
trol as well as for lunar landing and reentry through the atmosphere. 

5. Communications for all phases of the flight. 

Feasibility studies for Project Apollo were underway for many 
months. Initial studies were carried out in NASA's research and de- 
velopment centers and by industry. On July 18-20, 1961, more than 
1,200 representatives of firms in the aerospace industry attended a 
NASA-Industry Technical Conference in Washington, where they 
were briefed on Apollo requirements. In mid-August, proposals 
were solicited from a number of industry teams for design and fabri- 
cation of the Apollo spacecraft systeni. 

THE CHALLENGE TO THE AEROSPACE INDUSTRIES 

Of the $1,671,750,000 NASA budget for fiscal year 1962, $206,750,000 
was for salaries and personnel expenses of the NASA organization. 
Contract effort provided for the construction of new facilities and the 
support of the research and development activities. The fiscal year 
1962 budget included $245 million for construction of new and sup- 
porting facilities and $1,220 million for research and development. 
This research and development encompassed propulsion systems, pro- 
pellants, power supplies, structures and materials, guidance and con- 
trol, instrumentation and telemetry, and aerodynamics, as well as 
launch vehicles and the satellite program. 

The 1962 program was approximately twice the 1961 program. 
Funding requirements will increase still further in 1963 if we are to 
meet the goals recommended by President Kennedy. NASA, other 
Government agencies, universities, and industry all have important 
responsibilities in the conduct of this rapidly expanding effort. Wo 
feel that the NASA staff should be kept at a level necessary to plan 
the space exploration program and to organize, contract for, and 
oversee it, while conducting enough in-house work to maintain the 
caliber of our scientific and technical personnel. However, contract 
participation by universities and industry currently amounts to more 
than 85 percent of NASA budget dollars. This percentage will 
increase. 



SPACE EXPLORATION — SEAMANS 273 

The special responsibilities of the aerospace industries in this pro- 
digious undertaking involve the following important areas that de- 
serve special attention : 

Working with universities, to educate greatly increased numbers of 
scientists, engineers, and technicians for roles in space exploration but 
broadly trained for other major teclinological developments of future 
importance to this country. 

Utilizing technical personnel effectively, thereby minimizing the 
time spent by these specially trained people on routine effort. 

Organizing teams of technical and administrative personnel in 
imaginative ways, both within the corporate structure and between 
corporations working toward common objectives. 

Providing technical and administrative competence in new geo- 
graphic areas when special site locations are required for fabrication, 
testing, and tracking. 

Improving the reliability of newly developed equipment by greatly 
increased emphasis on sound engineering, individual workmanship, 
and extensive testing. 

Initiating research programs aimed at enhancing our space effort 
and modernizing facilities for fabrication and testing of components. 

Utilizing the technology developed for the space program in other 
fields to build our economy. 

CONCLUSION 

I would like to conclude with thoughts that concern all who are 
working in the national space effort. 

The first is from Dr. Guyford Stever of the Massachusetts Institute 
of Teclinology. He has said : 

"We aerospace engineers have a tremendous responsibility to everyone. We 
are the ones entrusted with the future of manlsind in this field. We have a need 
for broader, more balanced people in the aerospace professions, those with a 
social awareness and an understanding of nontechnical, as well as technical 
subjects. The aerospace engineer must get the most out of the field and fit it 
into the needs of society. 

He believes that aerospace scientists and engineers will bring an in- 
credible revolution in medicine, commmiications, and materials — to 
mention only three. 

A month ago the National Science Foundation issued a study called 
"Investing in Scientific Progress," from which I should like to quote 
a few lines : 

From the time of Franklin and Jefferson the people of the United States have 
had faith in both the intellectual and the material benefits that science can bring. 
We have continually expanded our scientific knowledge of the physical universe, 
of living things, and of social organization. Our past investment in science has 
brought us double reward : a highly developed technology which has helped to 



274 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

keep us free, and a continuing enlargement of our understanding which has 
helped to enrich our freedom. 

Today, far more than in the past, scientific progress determines the character 
of tomorrow's civilization. 

Space exploration in general, and manned spaceflight in particular, 
offers us the chance for unparalleled progress. I am firmly convinced 
that, as a nation, we shall respond boldly and with determination to 
the call President Kennedy issued in his inaugural address when he 
urged the world — 

To invoke the wonders of science instead of its terrors ... to explore the 
stars, to conquer the deserts, eradicate disease, tap the ocean depths and encour- 
age the arts and commerce. 



Reprints of the various articles in this Report may be obtained, as long as 
the supply lasts, on request addressed to the Editorial and Publications 
Division, Smithsonian Institution, Washington 25, D.C. 



The Smithsonian's Satellite-tracking 
Program: Its History and Organization^ 



By E. Nelson Hayes 

Technical Writer, Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory 



[With 4 plates] 



For centuries poets have imagined voyages to the moon and 
planets,^ and since the L^te 19th century scientists have been slowly 
evolving the means by which those dreams might become realities.' 

Robert Goddard of Clark University, Worcester, Mass., outlined in 
1919 a method for reaching extreme altitudes and later, supported 
in part by grants from the Smithsonian Institution, conducted a series 
of limited experiments to demonstrate the practicability of his ideas. 
Thereafter both in the United States and in Europe increasing at- 
tention was paid to the development of rockets for military use and for 
the probing of the upper atmosphere and the exploration of outer 
space. 

The fundamental idea was that rockets of limited thrust could 
penetrate the upper atmosphere and bring back valuable scientific 
data. Later, manned rockets of greater power would reach outer 
space and eventually journey throughout the solar system. 

BEGINNING 

DEVELOPMENT OF CONCEPT 

The concept of an artificial satellite orbiting the earth was a 
fairly late development, because such a vehicle would be of little 
scientific value unless it could signal information back to the earth 



1 The present article takes the development of the satellite-tracking program up to 
October 1957. It is expected that a later Smithsonian Report ■will contain a further 
article embodying results after that date. 

' See Marjorie Nicholson, "Voyages to the Moon," Macmillan, 1948. 

* In the lS90's the father of Russian rocketry, Konstantin Tsiolkovsky, in his famous 
novel "Beyond the Planet Earth" (translated by Kenneth Syers : Pergamon, 1960). de- 
fined for the first time in scientific terms the feasibility of Interplanetary travel. A dec- 
ade later he published "The Probing of Space by Means of Jet Devices." 

275 



276 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

or could be tracked by optical or other means. The idea had to await 
the invention of suitable telemetry and tracking techniques. 

In the decade following World War II a number of suggestions 
for artificial earth satellites were made. At the Rand Corporation, 
a nonprofit research group sponsored by Douglas Aircraft Co., 
one project in 1946 investigated a number of the problems that 
would be encountered in the development of a scientific space pro- 
gi^am- As one aspect of his work on that project, Dr. Fred L. Whip- 
ple of the Harvard College Observatory wrote the now famous paper 
"Possible Hazards to a Satellite Vehicle from Meteorites," 1946, in 
which he proposed a "meteor bumper" of thin metal surrounding 
the skin of the space vessel. 

Meanwhile, at White Sands, N. Mex., the U.S. Army was modify- 
ing and using the V-2 rocket, developed by Germany in World War 
II, to explore the upper atmosphere. Later flights of Wliite Sands 
rockets were photographed with a camera-telescope developed by 
the Harvard Meteor Project, and from Dr. Wliipple's study of those 
films evolved the technique of photographing earth satellites in orbit. 

By 1951 the number of scientists involved in various space re- 
searches was such that they felt the need of an opportunity to ex- 
change ideas. In the fall of that year a symposium on the physics 
and medicine of the upper atmosphere was held in San Antonio, 
Tex., under the sponsorship of the Air University School of Aviation 
Medicine of Randolph Field. Dr. James Van Allen, chairman of 
the Upper Atmosphere Rocket Research Panel, speculated on the na- 
ture and intensity of the cosmic radiation. Dr. Joseph Kaplan, chair- 
man of an Air Force panel on geophysical research, discussed the 
physics of tlie upper atmosphere. Dr. Wernher von Braun, technical 
director of the guided missile development group at the Redstone 
Arsenal in Huntsville, Ala., considered means of returning a winged 
rocket vehicle from a satellite orbit to the earth. Dr. Wliipple 
spoke on meteoritic phenomena and meteorites. Their papers and 
more than 30 others were published in 1952 under the title "Physics 
and Medicine of the Upper Atmosphere: A Study of the 
Aeropause." 

At the second International Congress of Astronautics, held in Lon- 
don, England, during September 1951, three British scientists, K. 
W. Gatland, A. M. Kunesch, and A. E. Dixon, presented a paper on 
"Minimum Satellite Vehicles," At the next meeting of the Congress 
in Zurich, Switzerland, the following year, there were more extensive 
discussions and proposals, including "MOUSE," or a Minimum Or- 
bital Unmanned Satellite of the Earth, a 100-pound object to orbit 
over both geographic poles. 

One expression of this early work appeared as a series of articles 
in Collier's magazine in 1952 and as "Across the Space Frontier" 



SATELLITE-TRACKING PROGRAJM — HAYES 277 

published by Viking Press the same year. Gathered and edited by 
Cornelius Ryan of the Collier's staff and written for a popular au- 
dience, the papers included "The Heavens Open," by Whipple ; "Prel- 
ude to Space Travel," by von Braun; "This Side of Infinity," by 
Kaplan ; and "A Station in Space," by Willy Ley. The last described 
in some considerable detail a manned, wheel-shaped satellite 250 feet 
in diameter, circling the earth every 2 hours at a mean altitude of 
1,075 miles. The station would serve as "a superb observation post" 
from which technicians could inspect every ocean, continent, country, 
and city on earth, and study the universe without the optical and radio 
interference of the atmosphere. Interestingly enough, no mention was 
made of the possibility of tracking the station from ground observa- 
tories. Indeed, the idea was quite the opposite : observers in the space 
station would "track" the earth and would determine, for example, the 
shape of the earth by precise photographs of the edge of moonlight as 
it passed across the face of our planet. 
Dr. Whipple did, however, include in his chapter the following : 

Predicting the position and motion of the space station itself will be one of 
the most difficult problems ever encountered in celestial mechanics, or the 
science of predicting the positions of astronomical objects. The earth's doorknob 
shape, with a bulge of several miles at the equator, combines with the changing 
direction of the moon's attraction to alter slightly but continuously the nearly 
circular orbit of the space station. Until recently, the calculation of such an 
orbit would have taken a good computer a considerable number of hours. But the 
orbit of the space station will change by an infinitesimal amount in the short 
period of each 2-hour swing. Therefore, unless the computer can calculate this 
new orbit in less than the 2 hours necessary for the space station to make one 
journey around the earth, it is obvious that his calculations can never keep 
abreast of the space station, let alone predict its position in the future. 

The answer to the computing problem lies, of course, in the huge "electronic 
brain" calculation machines which we have today. Their use on the ground will 
be absolutely essential in plotting the motion of the space station. Following 
this man-made island in the sky continuously and precisely, these electronic 
machines will be able to make exact calculations with much greater rapidity 
than the speed of the space station in its 2-hour journeys around the earth. 

While this space-station project, although feasible, could not have 
been completed in less than 15 years, its specifications were based on 
research that was to help make possible the lamichmg of our first 
satellite. Explorer I, in 1958. 

PROJECT ORBITER 

In June 1957 what was to become known as Project Orbiter was 
defined by a group of scientists assembled in Washington. Attending 
this meeting were Comdr. George W. Hoover, Office of Naval Re- 
search; Wernher von Braim; Frederick C. Durant, president of the 
International Astronautical Federation ; Fred Singer of the Univer- 
sity of Maryland ; Fred L. Whipple of Harvard ; David Young of the 



278 ANlSrUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

Aerojet-General Corporation; and several others. Von Braun was 
already supervising the making of Redstone missiles; he suggested 
that several of these be allocated to the project and that a cluster of 
small solid rockets be attached to the end of each in order to stabilize 
its flight. The launch would be made eastward at the Equator. The 
hope was that a 6-pound ball would be placed in orbit. 

Included in this proposal was an optical tracking system of which 
Dr. Whipple was to have charge. He planned to borrow theodolites 
from various units of the Armed Services and set up three observing 
stations around the Equator. The Air Force was to transport material 
to the proposed sites. 

THE INTERNATIONAL GEOPHYSICAL YEAR — IGY 

Meanwhile, the United States had become an active participant in 
the IGY.* In 1952 the International Council of Scientific Unions 
proposed to the nations of the world that an International Geophysical 
Year be organized to conduct an extensive scientific study of the earth. 
A year later a Special Committee (to become known as the CSAGI) 
of the International Council scheduled the 18 months from July 1, 
1957, to December 31, 1958, as the IGY. Of the nations invited to 
participate, 67 responded favorably. 

One of the 14 fields of investigation of the IGY was rockets and 
satellites, the coordinator (or reporter) for which was Dr. Lloyd V. 
Berkner of Associated Universities, a complex of research facilities, 
including Brookhaven National Laboratories. The program outlined 
for this field in 1954 specified exploration of the high atmosphere by 
small earth satellites as one project. 

Each participating country organized a national committee for the 
IGY. Chairman of the U.S. committee was Dr. Joseph Kaplan of 
the University of California at Los Angeles. In October 1954 the 
committee first gave serious consideration to launching an instrumented 
satellite as one phase of its program. On January 22 of the following- 
year the Technical Panel on Rocketry of the U.S. National Com- 
mittee resolved that a study group, called the LPR (Long Playing 
Rocket) committee, be set up under the chairmanship of Dr. Fred 
Whipple. Its purpose was to report on geophysical possibilities, 
technical feasibility, budget, controls, motor, manpower, timing, cost 
estimates, desired orbit, and possibly other subjects related to the 
launching of an artificial earth satellite. 



* For accounts of the IGY, Including something about the first two International Polar 
Years from which the IGY evolved, the reader is referred to : Sydney Chapman, "IGY : 
Year of Discovery," University of Michigan Press, 1959 ; J. Tuzo Wilson, "IGY : The 
Year of the New Moons," Knopf, 1961 ; and Walter Sullivan, "Assault on the Unknown," 
McGraw-Hill, 1961. 



SATELLITE-TRACKING PROGRAM — HAYES 279 

At a special meeting of the LPR conimittee iii Washington three 
possible approaches to placing a small payload in orbit aromid the 
earth were outlined. The committee defined some of the technical 
and scientific aspects of orbiting a 10-pomid object; they suggested 
that it should be approximately 20 inches in diameter and be painted 
white or have an otherwise highly reflecting surface. Such an object 
could be observed visually from the ground at twilight, when it would 
be the equivalent of a star of the sixth magnitude. Dr. Whipple 
stated firmly that it could be found optically with binoculars or with 
Askania-type cameras, and he discussed the techniques for acquiring 
the object once it was in orbit. The committee concluded that a 
satellite for payloads of up to 10 pounds could be realized within 2 
or 3 years, provided sufficient funds and manpower were available. 
On March 10, 1955, the U.S. National Committee adopted a resolution 
favoring the launching of instrumented satellites. 

Several months later Kaplan wrote to Dr. Alan T. Waterman, 
Director of the National Science Foundation, summarizing the views 
and proposals of the U.S. National Committee concerning the LPR 
project. The executive committee had already acted favorably upon 
a budget of approximately 10 million dollars for the launching of 
IGY satellites. The budget included provisions for 10 "birds" and 5 
observation stations, including the necessary scientific instrumentation, 
related equipment, and a minimum civilian scientific staff. The report 
described the provisions for the five ground stations, one each in 
equatorial Pacific, South America, the Atlantic Ocean, Africa, and 
the Philippines, and defined some of the simplest and most direct 
experiments that could be performed through the instrumented satel- 
lite: precise geodetic measurements; the determination of upper-air 
densities; measurement of solar radiation; measurement of particle 
radiation ; determination of current flows in the ionosphere associated 
with magnetic storms and radio blackouts ; and the determination of 
hydrogen in interplanetary space. 

The major question next to be resolved was whether Project Orbiter 
or some alternative was to be the official IGY satellite program of the 
United States. Project Orbiter had been proposed to Donald A. 
Quarles, the Assistant Secretary of Defense ; however, the Naval Re- 
search Laboratory, under the Office of Naval Research, had been 
developing its own program. Both proposals were presented for 
decision to a special committee appointed by President Eisenhower. 

On July 29, 1955, President Eisenliower announced to the world that 
the U.S. would launch a small instrumented earth-circling satellite 
as part of its IGY effort, and several weeks later the Secretary of 
Defense, Charles E. Wilson, added that the Department of Defense 
would participate in this phase of the IGY program. In his press 

625325 — 62 19 



II 



280 AKNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

release Wilson repeated that it would perhaps be possible under ideal 
conditions of weather and illumination to see the satellite with the 
naked eye. However, he continued, the principal means of observation 
and tracking would be by scientific instruments, including telescopes, 
theodolites, and electronic devices. Predictions of the position and 
path of the satellite were to be determined by electronic computers, 
and these data would be disseminated to all participating scientists. 

On October 6, 1955, the Department of Defense announced that 
work had begun on Project Vanguard, the name assigned to the 
rocket-satellite package of the Naval Research Laboratory. The 
Russians had also annomiced that they would launch satellites during 
the IGY, and a number of nations, including the United Kingdom, 
France, Japan, Australia, and Canada, planned to include rocket 
launchings in their IGY programs. 

THE SMITHSONIAN ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY 

The Smithsonian had had wide experience in research and fieldwork. 
The Institution is and always has been much more than a collection 
of museums. The first Secretary of the Institution, Joseph Henry, 
was, in the words of the astronomer Simon Newcomb, "the first 
American after Franklin to reach high eminence as an original in- 
vestigator in physical science." ^ He set the pattern and tradition of 
scientific investigation that has continued fruitfully for more than 
a century. From its very beginning the Smithsonian has maintained 
a staff of research scientists who have devoted themselves to a great 
variety of projects. 

One of the earliest plans presented to the Institution was that for 
making weather observations on a systematic, scientific basis. The 
program got underway in 1847, and 2 years later the then recently 
perfected telegraph system was used to transmit meteorological data. 
Most of the observers were unpaid amateurs, a precedent for the estab- 
lishment of the Moonwatch program. 

Also, the Smithsonian had a paternal interest in the development 
of rocketry in this country, for it had sponsored the work of Robert 
Goddard, had helped provide financial support for his early experi- 
ments, and in 1919 had published his now famous pamphlet, "A 
Method for Reaching Extreme Altitudes." Alone of all Government 
agencies, it had glimpsed the significance and feasibility of Goddard's 
proposal that rockets could be used to explore the upper atmosphere. 
The U.S. satellite program of the IGY was a logical and inevitable 
result of the experiments of Robert Goddard. 

In 1954, virtually on the eve of the IGY program, the retirement of 
L. B. Aldrich, Director of the Smithsonian Astrophysical Observa- 

^ Quoted by Paul H. Oehser in "Sons of Science," p. 28, Henry Scliuman, 1949. 



SATELLITE-TRACKING PROGRAM — HAYES 281 

tory, required the choice of a successor. Two main divisions of re- 
search constituted the activities of the Observatory at that time : one 
on radiation and organisms, devoted to studies of the effect of non- 
ionizing and ionizing radiant energy on plants and animals; the other 
on astrophysical investigations proper, primarily of solar radiation, 
for which two field stations ( at Montezuma, Chile, and Table Moun- 
tain, Calif.) were maintained to accumulate data. 

Both divisions owed their origin to the prophetic imagination of 
Samuel P. Langley, third Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution 
and founder of its Astrophysical Observatory. As early as 1888 he 
had expressed in the Annual Report his cherished hope "of erecting 
and equipping an observatory for astrophysical research," where 
he might pursue his work on solar radiation in accordance with his 
concept of what he called "the new astronomy," concerned not with the 
formerly prime objective of finding positions of the heavenly bodies, 
but of learning "what they are in themselves and in relation to our- 
selves." In 1891 he received from the National Govermnent his first 
appropriation of funds for this research. 

Early in his career Langley had been associated with the Harvard 
Astronomy Department and had come to the Smithsonian from the 
observatory at Allegheny University. He was therefore strongly con- 
vinced that there should be close connections between a research estab- 
lislnnent of the sort he envisaged and the scientists in universities both 
here and abroad. In addition, as President Gilman of Johns Hop- 
kins observed at the Langley Memorial exercises held in Washington 
on December 3, 1906, he had proved during his Secretaryship that one 
"of the most remarkable characteristics of the Smithsonian has been 
its power of adaptation to changing circumstances . . . shown [among 
other ways] by expansion of other work. It has always been ready 
to enlarge its domain and sustain the burden of fresh responsibilities." 

With such traditions in mind. Dr. Leonard Carmichael, Secretary 
of the Smithsonian since 1953 and formerly president of Tufts Col- 
lege, sought as a new Director a scientist capable of broadening sig- 
nificantly the research program of the Observatory to include the 
major fields of current astrophysics. He chose Dr. Whipple both 
for his eminence as an astronomer and for his experience as leader 
of the radar "window project" during the war and as a participant 
in the Harvard Meteor Project. 

Both Drs. Whipple and Carmichael intended the former's appoint- 
ment to open the way to close and beneficial cooperation between the 
Astrophysical Observatory and the Harvard College Observatory in 
Cambridge, Mass. Both institutions were to be distinct in all admin- 
istrative and financial matters, but it was recognized that the Astro- 



282 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

physical Observatory of the Smithsonian would gain much by being 
put in the academic atmosphere of Cambridge. 

Although Dr. Whipple's appointment did not become effective until 
July 1, 1955, he began working part time for the Smithsonian in April, 
and a provisional budget was drafted for the program to track the 
satellite of Project Orbiter. 

The Astrophysical Observatory was officially transferred to the 
grounds of the Harvard College Observatory on July 1. The pro- 
fessional staff consisted of Dr. Whipple and Dr. John S. Rinehart, 
half of whose time was to be devoted to scientific research and half 
to assisting Dr. Whipple in the administration of the Observatory. 

Dr. Wliipple now enlarged the scope of the program of the Observa- 
tory to "embrace not only research in solar activity and its effects upon 
the earth, but also meteoritic studies and studies of the high atmos- 
phere." He conceived the optical tracking of satellites as "a new and 
startling tool of remarkable power in the study of solar-system and 
geophysical phenomena." 

That summer Dr. Whipple went to Europe, still believing in the 
strong possibility that some modification of von Braun's Orbiter proj- 
ect would be adopted. When he returned and learned otherwise, he 
immediately began to adapt his proposals for tracking Orbiter to re- 
quirements of the Vanguard satellite, which at that time was planned 
to weigh approximately 20 pounds and be 30 inches in diameter. 
Making some a priori assumptions about the satellite itself and the 
orbit it would follow, he calculated that the object would be as bright 
as visual magnitude 5 to 7, that is, near the limit of naked-eye visi- 
bility, but certainly easily observable under good atmospheric condi- 
tions by means of binoculars or wide-field optical equipment. 

For this new tracking program he proposed that only the most rapid, 
large-aperture Schmidt optical system would be suitable for observing 
the satellite and that the telescope might be mechanized so that the 
motion of the instrument would follow the apparent motion of the 
satellite itself. He also outlined the value of teams of amateur visual 
observers (later to be named "Moonwatch") for acquiring the satellite 
in its first few orbits. In addition, he made provisions for a computa- 
tions center to receive observational data and to prepare predictions of 
satellite passages, and a communications network to and from the 
various observing stations and teams and the suggested headquarters 
in Cambridge. With imaginative foresight he envisaged what was 
to become the optical tracking program of the Smithsonian Astro- 
physical Observatory. 

His proposal for the Smithsonian to provide optical tracking of the 
IGY satellites also involved at least two unrealistic factors that were 
to have a crucial bearing on the events of the next few years. First, 



SATELLITE-TRACKING PROGKAM — HAYES 283 

the program was geared for 18 months, that is, for the period of the 
IGY; no one made specific plans for the program to continue after 
December 31, 1958. This meant that equipment contracted for by 
the Observatory did not need to be designed and built to function 
efficiently beyond that date. It is a tribute to the skillful planning 
of the scientists and technicians and to the manufacturing abilities of 
the firms involved that most of the instruments and buildings are still 
in good working condition as this is written. Second, the program 
was geared to track only one or two satellites on the assumption that 
of the six "earnest tries" made by Vanguard not more than two would 
succeed. Few seem to have taken seriously the possibility that Russia 
would also launch several satellites during the IGY and that the 
Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory might have the responsi- 
bility for tracking them optically. 

THE IGY AND THE SMITHSONIAN 

Late in 1955 the National Academy of Sciences and the National 
Science Foundation, acting for the U.S. National Committee of the 
IGY, assigned to the Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory, through 
the Institution in Washington, the responsibility for the optical track- 
ing of U.S. artificial earth satellites launched during the period from 
July 1, 1957, to December 31, 1958. 

It had been evident from the first that the tracking of satellites was 
a job for astronomers. It must never be lost sight of that a satellite, 
once launched, is neither a missile nor a rocket, but an object basically 
similar to the kind that astronomers have for centuries been observing 
and studying. The satellite is, as far as the optical tracker is con- 
cerned, a point of light on the celestial sphere. It requires the kind 
of accurate positioning and clocking for which, through their parallax, 
double-star, and other programs, astronomers had worked out the 
optical teclmiques. No other group was capable of this type of work. 

Although Dr. Wliipple was convinced that optical tracking of 
satellites was possible, he had only the precedent of the Harvard 
Meteor Project to guide him, as well as, of course, his profound Imowl- 
edge of astronomy. Virtually all phases of the satellite-tracking 
program were fundamentally new. No one could say with certainty 
that some redesign of the super-Schmidt camera would be able to 
photograph an orbiting satellite. No one could say with surety 
that an organization of amateur astronomers would show the diligence 
and dedication required to make "Moonwatch" a success. No one 
could define precisely the qualifications of the observers needed at 
the Baker-Nunn camera stations ; and no one knew the exact means 
by which mathematicians and astronomers would determine the orbit 
of a satellite and prepare predictions. 



284 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

This meant that the optical satellite-tracking program was to be 
not only a field operation but also a program of scientific research. 
In turn, this meant that the project needed a certain margin for error, 
an opportunity to fail and to profit by the failure. 

The scientist is accustomed to such failure. He will undertake a 
research project, may carry it part or all the way through, and then 
realize that he has been on the wrong track. If possible, he then 
starts all over again. His essential task is to find the truth, and the 
route to that truth may be roundabout. 

These problems were not miique to the satellite-tracking program. 
Other scientific groups entering this field of space research with great 
enthusiasm in 1955 tended not only to underestimate the cost, time, 
and personnel required, but also to slight the fundamental nature 
of research in their proposals to and demands of the Government. 
With all the hustle and bustle of the U.S. National Committee and 
its subcommittees, many phases of the IGY program seem to have 
been on an ad hoc basis, perhaps necessarily so. The result was much 
improvisation, much shifting and changing, and much need of ex- 
planation that sometimes appeared to be mere rationalization. 

On the other hand, many factors worked in favor of the space pro- 
gram, and especially that of the Smithsonian. The IGY was, in the 
words of Dr. Berkner, "perhaps the most ambitious and at the same 
time the most successful cooperative enterprise ever undertaken by 
man." ^ As such, not only did it conunand the dedicated effort of 
thousands of scientists throughout the world, it also aroused a remark- 
able enthusiasm among the peoples of many countries. Millions saw 
in it an example of international goodwill and cooperation such as 
they had only too rarely known. The IGY, particularly its space 
projects, fired the imagination of people who, when called upon to 
do so, gave to it their fullest cooperation. As we shall see, hard- 
headed businessmen were willing to sacrifice time and money to help 
the Smithsonian establish its satellite-tracking program. The success 
of that program, despite its many headaches and heartaches, resulted 
in no small measure from the zealous interest and willing support of 
the public, as well as from the determined efforts of research scientists, 
field personnel, and management to work together harmoniously and 
productively. 

PLANNING 

IGY GRANT 

The first IGY grant to the Smithsonian became effective January 1, 
1956, and continued to the end of June of the same year. Its purpose 



« From his Foreword to "IGY : Tho. Year of the New Moons," by J. Tuzo Wilson, p. 
vii, Knopf, 1961. 



SATELLITE -TRACKING PROGRAM — HAYES 285 

was to initiate the optical satellite-tracking program by determining 
the design of the optics and the camera, estimating the cost of long 
lead-time equipment, negotiating the establisliment of camera stations 
here and in foreign countries, outlining the Moonwatch organization, 
and defining the many other aspects of what was to become a very 
complex project. 

THE HARVARD METEOR PROGRAM 

The tracking plans that Dr. Whipple developed had in consid- 
erable measure evolved from his experiences with the Harvard Meteor 
Project. That project had been set up before World War II and 
then in 1947 vitalized by him with the assistance of Harlan Smith 
and Eichard E. McCrosky. In 1948 the field program was trans- 
ferred to New Mexico preparatory to the delivery of the super- 
Schmidt cameras, which had been specially designed for the project. 

The first intention had been to set up a fairly complex field opera- 
tion, with even the possibility of moving the cameras from southern 
New Mexico in winter to northern New Mexico in summer in order 
to take advantage of the best weather conditions. However, with 
a very limited budget, supported primarily by Government funds, 
the fieldwork was gradually simplified. Two stations, 50 miles apart, 
were established: one at Sacramento Peak and the other at Organ 
Pass. The stations were simultaneously to photograph a meteor, 
a technique that would enable the astronomers to determine its height, 
velocity, deceleration, and direction. 

Since no suitable camera-telescope was available. Dr. Whipple and 
his staff sketched the idea of a new type to do the job. Dr. Wliipple 
insisted that the optics of the camera should use glass transparent 
to the ultraviolet; he felt certain that that glass could be molded 
into the hemisphere required by the optical design they had in mind. 
He asked Dr. James G. Baker, who at that time was a consultant 
to the Perkin-Elmer Corporation of Norwalk, Conn., to work out 
the design of the camera, and Perkin-Elmer was to manufacture it. 
Meanwhile, the National Bureau of Standards in Washington agreed 
to mold the hemispheres. The super-Schmidt ^ that this team created 
proved a notable success and became the prototype of the Baker-Nunn 
satellite-tracking camera. 



^The super-Schmidt Is an f/.65 Instrument with an aperture of 12.25 inches and a 
focal length of 8 inches; the angular diameter of the field of view is 52°. The mirror is 
23.5 Inches In diameter. The corrector plate has an aspherlc surface. The equatorial 
mounting of the camera permits it to traclt the stars. A rotating shutter chops the 
meteor trail on the photographic plate into discrete segments. 

The film on which the meteor is photographed is molded into a hemisphere to match 
the design of the optical system. This was the first time that photographic film was 
manufactured In this form, another achievement of the Harvard Meteor Project. 



286 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

SPOT^ 

In November of 1955 Dr. Whipple mentioned to Dr. J. Allen Hynek, 
professor of physics and astronomy at Ohio State University and 
director of McMillin Observatory there, the strong possibility that 
the Smithsonian would receive the satellite-tracking grant from the 
IGY, and suggested that perhaps Dr. Hynek would be interested in 
becoming the Observatory's associate director in charge of the pro- 
gram. Quick to appreciate the challenge of setting up such a pro- 
gram, and excited by the prospect of tracking satellites, Dr. Hynek 
took leave of absence at Ohio State and came to Cambridge early 
in January 1956. 

By late winter Whipple and Hynek had clearly outlined the means 
by which the goal of the optical tracking program could be achieved. 
The goal was to determine with sufficient accuracy the position and 
time of a satellite on the celestial sphere during the evening and 
morning twilight periods. The means were : 

1. A relatively simple super-Schmidt camera that would use a 
continuous roll of film and two types of shutters : one a gross shutter 
operating once during each film transport cycle, and the other a rotat- 
ing barrel-type shutter with a period of 5 percent of the total film 
transport cycle; the latter, which would interrupt the exposure for 
periods of about one-hundredth of a second, would be synchronized 
with a stroboscopic presentation of the crystal clock face that would 
be photographed directly on the film strip. 

2. A crystal clock accurate to within 1 millisecond. 

3. A network of 10 to 12 camera stations throughout the world. 

4. Scores of teams of amateur astronomers to make preliminary 
observations of the satellite. 

5. An orbit calculation and prediction section and a conununications 
center at the Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory in Cambridge. 

The task now was to make these means realities. 

THE OPTICAL TRACKING PROGRAM 

It was inevitable that Dr. Baker should be asked to design the 
optical system of the camera. He had created the super-Schmidt 
camera and was considered to be the world's foremost authority on 
optical systems for astronomical cameras. In the summer of 1955 
Dr. Whipple had gone over the various possibilities with him, and 
together they settled tentatively on a classical Schmidt system of 
approximately 16-inch clear aperture at f/1 and a field of view of 



8 The program is often referred to as SPOT (Smithsonian Precision Optical Tracliing). 
Mrs. Kathryn C. Norris provided a prize for the winner of a contest to picli a suitable 
name, and this one by Mrs. Eileen C. Cavanaugh, was chosen from among the many 
entries. 



SATELLITE-TRACKING PROGRAM — HAYES 287 

perhaps 20°. Dr. Baker had then suggested that the fihn in the 
camera could be mounted to wind across a curved focal surface (the 
back-up plate) ; he had earlier used this method for a 6-inch f/1 
Schmidt camera, one of his wartime projects. 

In February of the following year, having formally accepted from 
the Observatory the assignment to design the optical system. Dr. 
Baker ran a family of rays through a classical Schmidt system on an 
IBM computer as a preliminary step toward determining possible 
improvements. The over-all problem was a formidable one. An f/1 
Schmidt system had never been built for an aperture greater than 8 
inches, and the classical Schmidt system has only one corrector 
plate. This new camera might require complex plates with strong 
aspheric optical powers and would have a much larger aperture. 

To complicate matters, in the spring the Navy announced that the 
diameter of the Vanguard satellite had been lowered from 30 to 20 
inches. This was a most critical decision. It meant that even closer 
attention would have to be given to the optical performance of the 
camera and that the factor of safety, already so narrow in the original 
choice, had now vanished. In addition, it became apparent that 
the camera had to track the satellite, rather than remain stationary 
and permit the satellite to record itself on the exposed film. 

At this point Wliipple, Hynek, and Baker decided upon a larger 
instrument. To restore the desired factor of safety for recording the 
faint image of the satellite, they found it necessary to increase the 
aperture to 20 inches, to hold the speed to f/1, and to seek an image 
diameter no larger than 20 microns. (A human hair has a diameter 
of about 75 microns.) At the same time they increased the desired 
field of view to 30° to guarantee that, despite the uncertainties of 
initial positions, the faint satellite image could be detected against 
the background of stars. They recognized that the cost of the camera 
would be substantially greater than had been considered before and 
that the classical Sclimidt system was inadequate to do the job. No 
one, however, was fully aware then that the trail toward the goal 
of a satisfactory camera would be long and difficult. 

The next step was to design the mechanical elements of the camera. 
In February Wliipple and Hynek discussed the problem with Joseph 
Nunn of South Pasadena, Calif., who was known and highly recom- 
mended to them. The essential question was precisely whether, and if 
so how, the camera was to move. There were three possibilities : the 
first, which already seemed doubtful, was to have the camera remain 
stationary and let the satellite make a track on the filni; the second 
was simply to have the camera track the satellite, w th the stars 
appearing on the film as chopped trailed images, and the satellite 
as a "point" ; the third was a rather complicated oscillating movement. 



288 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

whereby the camera would alternate between remaining stationary 
and tracking the satellite. After many discussions, they chose the 
third method because it offered both greater flexibility of tracking 
technique and an extra margin of safety, ensuring that the camera 
could record a faint satellite as Vv'ell as the star background. 

Mr. Nunn made a set of preliminary drawings and sent them on to 
Cambridge. To indicate the real size of the device, an isometric 
presentation showed a 6-foot man standing next to the camera, which 
was approximately 12 feet high and about 12 feet long at its greatest 
horizontal dimension. The shoulders of the operator shown at one 
end of the camera came about IcA^el with the normal pivot point of 
the camera itself. It would be, then, a fairly large instrument. 

The third requirement of the system was some means of timing the 
satellite observations. In the spring of the previous year Kobert 
Davis, a graduate student at Harvard, had worked with Dr. Whipple 
in planning a timing system for Project Orbiter and in outlining 
techniques for tracking satellites. They had determined that they 
would need a position accuracy of abovit 1 or 2 seconds of arc with a 
reasonable but versatile camera, and this would in turn demand an 
accuracy of approximately 1 millisecond in the timing of the observa- 
tions. After some investigation Mr. Davis ordered a model 110 
frequency time standard from Norrman Laboratories in "Williams 
Bay, Wis. 

In February 1956 the Norrman time standard arrived in Cambridge. 
Packed in a cardboard box for shipping, it had been handled so 
roughly in transit that four of the control knobs had been broken 
and some other damage done. Nevertheless, when plugged in, it 
worked, giving Mr. Davis a certain confidence in its ruggedness and 
reliability. In the weeks that followed he tested the clock to prove 
that, in Cambridge at least, it would keep time to within a millisecond, 
although its performance in the field was an uncertainty. 

The next question was, where should the Baker-Nunn camera sta- 
tions be located? The Vanguard satellites were planned for low 
inclinations in respect to the Equator, and the stations had therefore 
to be in a broad band defined roughly by the 30th parallels north and 
south. To this requirement was added the concept of a north-south 
line of stations in the Western Hemisphere. Furthermore, the loca- 
tions had to be where there was a minimum of cloud cover and where 
the landscape would permit observations of satellites reasonably near 
the horizon. Finally, the overseas sites had to be in countries with 
which it would be possible to make agreements for the establisliment 
and maintenance of the stations. 

Since astronomers form a closely knit international fraternity, 
Hynek's plan was simply to correspond with astronomers he knew 



SATELLITE-TRACKING PROGRAM — HAYES 289 

throughout the world, enlist their cooperation, and thus arrange for 
sites. The U.S. National Committee, however, thought that all inter- 
national arrangements should be made through the State Department. 
While undoubtedly Hynek's procedure would have resulted in much 
faster selection of the sites, the IGY approach ensured a maximum of 
cooperation from the local goverimients. 

Another, though slight, delay came from the attempt to locate to- 
gether the Baker-Nunn and the Minitrack stations for electronic 
tracking, on the assumption that this arrangement would save a good 
deal of time, effort, and money. It soon became apparent, however, 
that for technical reasons Minitrack needed large, flat areas on which 
antennas could be set up; they did not require clear skies, but did 
want their stations to be free of radio interference. 

The actual choice of sites did not begin until after the IGY Bar- 
celona meeting of September 1956. Meanwhile, however, the physical 
needs of the stations were clearly defined, and some preliminary ne- 
gotiations were undertaken through the U.S. National Committee and 
the State Department. 

At the same time much thought was given to the materiel that each 
station would need. By the middle of 1956 tentative lists had been 
drawn up, including photographic and darkroom equipment, power 
supplies, and such miscellaneous items as binoculars, flashlights, 
shovels, fire extinguishers, picks, and even rifles. What became in- 
creasingly apparent was that each station would need to be a relatively 
self-sustaining scientific laboratory located in an as yet unspecified 
region with unknown problems of commmiication and transportation. 

THE VISUAL TRACKING PROGRAM 

Before precise predictions could be sent to the Baker- Nunn stations 
so that they could make optical observations, preliminary orbital data 
had to be obtained. The Smithsonian needed, therefore, to have 
widely scattered around the globe many teams of visual observers who 
could, using very approximate predictions, find the object and de- 
termine its position to an accuracy within 1 degree of arc, and the 
time to an accuracy within 1 second. From these data, predictions 
precise enough for the Baker-Nunn stations could be derived. 

Dr. "\'\niipple knew that amateur astronomers could be depended 
upon to take an interest in this kind of observing and do it satisfac- 
torily. Since 1911 the American Association of Variable Star Ob- 
servers had been contributing data requiring the skills that would be 
needed to make preliminary observ^ations of satellites. Members of 
the Astronomical League and the Western Amateur Astronomers were 
among other amateurs who had been doing comparable observing tasks 
for many years. Dr. Wliipple suggested that individuals drawn from 



290 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

these and similar organizations might be willing to participate in the 
satellite program. When the problem was presented to Miss Grace 
C. Scholz (now Mrs. Armand Spitz) of the League, she helped organ- 
ize a committee to recruit observers and work out techniques and 
instrumentation. 

In February 1956 the Smithsonian appointed Dr. Armand N. Spitz, 
director of the Spitz Laboratories in Yorklyn, Del., and inventor of the 
Spitz Planetarium, to coordinate these activities. By that time the 
basic work of the teams had been fairly well specified: using only 
standard binoculars or simple monoculars and stopwatches, they were 
to locate and clock man's first efforts to conquer space. In the months 
to follow more sophisticated instrumentation was gradually developed. 

The Astronomical League circulated among the amateur astrono- 
mers a plea for volunteers to participate in the visual observing pro- 
gram. Because this was perhaps the first opportunity for amateur 
scientists to take part in the IGY and contribute to it data of signifi- 
cant value, the response was immediate. 

Although the program was to be operated on a volunteer basis, 
each individual member had to be selected for his skill and his willing- 
ness to accept responsibility and to undertake what would prove to be 
a fairly arduous and time-consuming job. His only reward was the 
knowledge that his work would be of unquestioned scientific value and 
that without his effort and that of hundreds like him the satellites 
might become lost for scientific observation. 

Dr. Spitz lectured to interested groups throughout the country, 
not only to recruit individuals for the visual observing program, but 
also to tell the general public something about the U.S. satellite 
program and to enlist the support of industry. People craved in- 
formation about space exploration, which was now moving out of 
the realm of science fiction into the arena of everyday reality. To 
his efforts were added those of Whipple and Hynek, who used every 
opportunity during their many journeys across the United States to 
inform the public of plans for and progress toward the launching 
and tracking of IGY satellites. In a sense, these three and other 
members of the Smithsonian staff served as liaison officers between 
the scientific community and the general public, preparing them to 
accept, understand, and appreciate the events that were to begin so 
suddenly and dramatically on October 4, 1957, with the successful 
orbiting of the Russian satellite Sputnik I. 

COMPUTING AND COMMUNICATIONS 

There remained two other important phases of the program to be 
considered: computations and communications. Computations for 
operational purposes involved devising means of deriving from ob- 



SATELLITE-TRACKING PROGRAM — HAYES 291 

servations a mathematical description of the orbit of the satellite so 
that predictions of its future passages over specified places could be 
made. Communications would send the predictions to the Moon- 
watch teams and the Baker-Nunn camera stations and receive from 
them their observations. A communications network could not, of 
course, be set up until the sites of the Baker-Nmin camera stations 
and of the Moon watch teams had been determined. 

During the period of the first IGY grant. Prof. Leland Cunning- 
ham of the University of California at Berkeley was employed as a 
consultant. He spent a good part of the summer of 1956 in Cam- 
bridge developing a theory to deal with perturbations of the satellite's 
orbit caused by the earth's gravity. This he was able to do with 
considerable success, and later one of the primary responsibilities of 
the computations section of the Observatory would be to program 
his theory for orbital calculations on the IBM-704 electronic com- 
puter. Also, Robert Davis made several preliminary studies of the 
perturbations that would occur in the orbit of a satellite. 

DEVELOPMENT OF OBJECTIVES FOR USE OF DATA 

Much thought was being given to the scientific uses that could be 
made of the Moon watch and Baker-Nunn observations. There gradu- 
ally evolved an understanding of how these data could later provide 
the basis for a more detailed and more precise knowledge of: 

1. The effects on the earth and the ionosphere of solar ultraviolet 
light, cosmic and solar X-rays, and other radiations. 

2. The physics of the upper atmosphere as it related to more ac- 
curate long- and short-range weather forecasting. 

3. The points in the upper atmosphere at which energy is either 
absorbed or radiated, and the problem of energy balance and dy- 
namics of the upper atmosphere. 

4. The disturbances in the atmosphere that result from solar flares 
and solar radiation. 

5. The relation between conditions in the upper atmosphere and 
the weather at lower levels. 

6. The variations of density and temperature at different levels of 
the upper atmosphere. 

7. The nature and cause of the aurora. 

8. The forces that produce the changes and fluctuations in the earth's 
magnetic field. 

9. The variations in composition and thickness of the earth's crust. 

10. The size and exact shape of the earth. 

11. The sizes and relative positions of the land masses of the earth. 
These objectives were to become the responsibility of the research 

and analysis section of the Observatory, a unit established late in 1957. 



292 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

PEOPLE ^ 

Finally, something should be said about the people who came to 
work on the program during these months and the months to follow. 
Dr. Hynek had done first things first. Instead of setting up a large 
and complex organization, he started out by seeing to the design of 
absolutely essential equipment. He had found people to initiate this 
work before he employed anyone else except his secretary. 

In the months that followed Dr. Hynek hired people with a sense of 
adventure, individuals who could think and act for themselves as 
pioneers on a new scientific frontier. Through hunt and luck, he 
gathered about him a group of men with talent. These included not 
only scientists, engineers, and teclinicians, but also some who, though 
perhaps short on professional background, showed an infectious en- 
thusiasm and willingness and ability to get things done. 

BUILDING 
FUNDING 

At the end of June 1956 the original IGY grant ended. Effective 
July 1 the Smithsonian received a group of new grants, totaling ap- 
proximately 3 million dollars, to carry the tracking program through 
to the end of the IGY on December 31, 1958. The budget would later 
pose some problems. Difficulty stemmed from the fact that money 
could not readily be transferred from one phase of the program to 
another according to need, nor was there any contingency fund. 



» Drs. Theodore E. Sterne, Charles A. Whitney, and Luigl G. Jacchia joined the program 
as physicists of the satellite-tracking program in July 1956. Dr. Don A. Lautman joined 
the staff in August of the same year as computing analyst, and a month later was ap- 
pointed a mathematician. Dr. Max Krook was appointed astrophysicist in August 
1956. Jack Slowey came to Cambridge in September of 1956 as a physicist and was ap- 
pointed astronomer to the program in 1959. Dr. Karl G. Henize was appointed astron- 
omer in charge of Baker-Nunn camera stations in September of 1956 and the following 
year became senior astronomer. James Knight joined the program as an engineer in 
September of the same year. Aubrey J. Stinnett joined the staff as a technologist in 
September 1956. Dr. George A. Van Biesbroeek was appointed astronomer in September 
of the same year and became a consultant In February 1957. Leon Campbell, Jr., joined 
the Observatory as a consultant in October of 1956, and the next January became super- 
visor of station operations for Moonwatch. Robert E. Brlggs was appointed mathema- 
tician in October of 1956. Dr. Gerhard F. Schilling came to the Observatory as a con- 
sultant in December 1956, a month later was appointed atmospheric physicist, and In 
1958 became a specialist as assistant to the Director. Samuel B. Whidden became a 
station observer In February of 1957 ; in May of 1959 he was appointed station coordi- 
nator for Moonwatch. Stefan Sydor joined the program in May 1957 as a consultant 
and a few weeks later was appointed optical advisor. Kenneth H. Drummond became a 
consultant In May of 1957, administrative officer in September of that year, and executive 
officer in December. E. Stuart Fergusson came to Cambridge in the summer of 1957 as a 
consultant ; In September he became executive officer of the satellite-tracking program. 
Charles M. Peterson joined the staflf as communications specialist in August 1957 ; the 
next summer he was appointed chief of communications. Dr. John White joined the 
Observatory as a senior observer in September 1957, but served as a public information 
specialist after October 4 of that year. 



SATELLITE -TRACKING PROGRAM — ^HAYES 293 

THE BAKER OPTICS 

During the spring months of 1956 Dr. Baker made further calcula- 
tions on modified Schmidt systems. Such a system might, for example, 
consist of a cemented doublet correcting plate and an aspheric mirror. 
It became quite clear, however, that the difficulties of the problem 
had increased faster than simple modifications of the classical Schmidt 
could accommodate. Dr. Baker brought this situation to Dr. Wliip- 
ple's attention and requested financial support to conduct a searching 
examination of more involved optical systems. 

Authorization to proceed was obtained in June. Dr. Baker then 
began detailed calculations of systems of increasing complexity to 
find the simplest that would meet the new requirements. Before 
arriving at the final solution, he analyzed exhaustively three other 
simpler systems and various intermediate systems, and rejected them 
all." 

Nevertheless, with the completion of calculation for the third 
system, Dr. Baker knew that he had "cracked" the problem. It was 
now largely a question of finding more suitable glass types. The 
design of the corrector cell itself represented a compromise; if the 
air spaces between the lenses of the cell are too large, the aspheric 
powers, even though weak, lead to unacceptable astigmatism in the 
outer field. If the air spaces are too small, the aspheric powers be- 
come too great for practical manufacture. Therefore, in applying the 
concept of the three-lens corrector cell, he had to interpolate more or 
less along a curve to reach a point that represented as small an air space 
as would be practicable for a system that could actually be manufac- 
tured. A larger air space than was decided upon would have simplified 
the manufacturing problem, but the astigmatism in the outer field 
would have made for unhappy results well outside the 20-micron 

w The first of these, already mentioned, was an achromatized classical Schmidt system 
modified to include an aspheric primary mirror. The second system made use of two air- 
spaced corrector elements and an aspheric mirror. The performance of this second sys- 
tem was appreciably superior to that of the standard classical Schmidt but otherwise was 
discouraging because of residual higher-order coma, or "halo" around the image. He 
was forced to go to a more complicated system. Drawing on more than 20 years' ex- 
perience, and choosing ordinary types of optical glass selected after much computing, he 
designed his third optical system, which met the monochromatic requirements ; its per- 
formance was, in fact, more or less identical to that of the present satellite camera in 
the optimum region of the spectrum. The chromatic aberrations, or color blur, of this 
combination of ordinary glass types turned out. however, to be well beyond the assigned 
tolerances. At the extremes of the spectral range, the image formed by this system 
would have been 5 times larger in diameter and 25 times larger in area than the specified 
20-micron spot size. The monochromatic characteristics of the system did prove the value 
of the three-plate corrector cell. It would not, however, have been at all safe to adopt 
the design, inasmuch as the effect of the color blur would have been rendered all the more 
disastrous because the aperture of the camera would be necessarily much obscured by 
the presence of film and shutter in the light beam. These shadowing effects would have 
been present in the enlarged star images and would have made precision measurement 
most difficult. 



294 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

tolerance. Clearly, this same curve was also a curve of dollars, and 
it was necessary to be most careful to strike an acceptable balance 
between cost and performance. 

The choice of suitable glasses for the corrector cell necessitated 
finding a combination of types that would remove or satisfactorily 
reduce the so-called secondary spectrum that had been the remaining 
dominant aberration of system No. 3. The catalog of Schott, the well- 
known German manufacturer of optical glass, listed only a few types 
providing negative dispersive characteristics of the proper trend 
throughout the spectrum. Of these only KzFS-2 seemed to be at 
all acceptable. Although listed as greenish in coloration, it was 
considerably whiter than the KzF series and, if kept thin, would 
provide adequate transmission in the ultraviolet. Unfortunately, 
this glass was also described as sensitive to acid staining and "soluble" 
in distilled water, though to a less degree than KzFS-3. Nevertheless, 
there was no way to solve the optical problem except to adopt 
KzFS-2 for the outermost pair of elements in the correcting trio of 
elements. The sensitivity of KzFS-2 to moisture and to atmospheric 
acid staining has continued to plague operators of the Baker-Nunn 
cameras, yet by no means to the degree earlier anticipated. Although 
the fact is perhaps not obvious, the transmitted light actually used 
in taking satellite pictures is far less affected by the staining of 
the KzFS-2 surfaces than the reflected light, not otherwise used, 
would indicate. 

The central element of the corrector cell had to be matched to 
KzFS-2. Dr. Baker finally chose SK-14, a glass of fairly high index 
compared to KzFS-2 but known to have very good transmission. 

An important but unlooked-for bonus in the choice of these two 
glasses was that they have very little thermal expansion, at least com- 
pared with that of many other optical glasses. In this respect they 
were unusually well matched, a fact that simplified the design of the 
means by which the elements of the corrector cell would be held in 
accurate alignment. 

This three-element corrector cell as finally designed would provide, 
then, an image with a minimum of color aberration and a minimum of 
coma. It was now matched to a mirror 30 inches in diameter, the 
best glass for which was Pyrex, made by the Corning Glass Works in 
Corning, N.Y. 

Dr. Baker completed the optical design of the camera by the end 
of July 1956. Already it was a much more complicated system than 
either he or the staff of the Observatory had ever anticipated. As the 
months went by, it proved to be considerably more expensive to manu- 
facture and involved a larger, heavier camera than any of them had 
originally thought. 



Smithsonian Report, 1961. — Hayes 



Plate 1 





y, z^ 



Smithsonian Report, 1961. — Hayes 



Plate 2 




1. A model of the Baker-Nunn camera. 









A^ 


H 




1 


Lr^ ,^ ^BL.'i 


■v M 


"-'ijjl 






||j»^W 




^^^^J^^^^H 


^ 


f 


J 




^E^i^uH 


PP 


^ 


"~— 


'ta^^*H 






^131 


\ J 


L e 


HUB 






w 






^■* , Av-4^ 


K. *T4*Ta^ 'JF^-r-aB^I 


r , 


■Hhhbkj 


feiL'''« 








" ' ^ii 


HhH 








■^--^ ^^^n 


gl^^aig 


rrw. 



2. Loading the gimbal ring of a Baker-Nunu camera on a Mx\TS plane. 



Smithsonian Report. 1961. Hayes 



Plate 3 




1. One type of Moonwatch monoscope. 









WBtm mm 



^ ^ -*■ 




2. Muunwatch team at Kashiwabara, Japan. 



Smithsonian Report. 1 961. — Hayes 




Plate 4 



d 










'■^^M^4f^ 




1. Moonwatch team at Alamagordo, N. Mex. 




: / 

2. Moonwatch team of Fort Worth, Tex. Pairs: child and parent. 



SATELLITE-TRACKING PROGRAM — ^HAYES 



295 




FILM 

TENSIONING WHEEL 



Figure 1. — Simplified cross-section view of the Baker-Nunn camera. 



Looking back on those months of arduous work and of crucial de- 
cisions and on the periods of discouragement that preceded discovery, 
Dr. Baker even now sees no practical alternative to the system that was 
designed." 

Although probably only Dr. Baker could have designed the optical 
system of the camera, it seemed that a number of firms might be able 
to manufacture the lenses and mirrors once Schott and Corning ha-d 
delivered the glass. However, the Perkin-Elmer Corporation, a large 
company with varied experience in the manufacture of optics, was 
the only firm that bid for the contract and had the personnel and 
machines to back up their bid. On November 16, 1956, a contract 
for the manufacture of the optics was signed by them and the 
Observatory. 

^1 At best, be would now add a zero power plane-parallel hard-crown optical plate in 
front of the corrector cell simply In order to protect the KzFS-2 lens ; while in a sense 
this would have been a fourth corrector, It actually would have presented no difficulties 
of design or manufacture and could even now be added at any time. Otherwise, called 
upon to do the same job today, he would still do it in precisely the same way. He would 
make a plea, however, to those using the cameras to think of them as highly specialized 
tools that need much care, periodic maintenance, and occasional renovation. 



625325—62- 



-20 



296 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

In the months that followed, numerous but not unexpected prob- 
lems developed at Perkin-Elmer. Their responsibility certainly 
transcended in difficulty almost any other that had been attempted 
in the fabrication of aspheric optics. The outer plates of KzFS-2 
had been designed to be thin in order to keep ultraviolet transmission 
to a maximum, a fact that complicated the work because of the intri- 
cate problem of supporting the thin plate. The task was all the more 
difficult because the system involved four surfaces of very strong 
individual powers on the same optical axis; as Dr. Baker later re- 
marked, "It was a monumental accomplishment to make the four of 
these work properly together." Finally, four of the six surfaces of 
the corrector cell were strongly aspheric, presenting a real challenge 
to the manufacturer. Perkin-Elmer felt originally that they could 
generate the curves with a Meinel grinder. The surfaces were, how- 
ever, too complex to be ground by machine, a fact that was to result 
in some further delays. 

Meanwhile, the order for the mirror blanks had been placed with 
Corning. In May 1957 Stefan Sydor, an expert in the manufacture 
of optical materials, came to the Observatory. His first assignment 
was to go directly to Corning and advise in the production of the 
blanks. During the months that followed, he spent a good deal of his 
time there supervising their fabrication. 

The Schott firm in Germany had received contracts for manufactur- 
ing the glasses for the corrector cell and for the aspheric-surface 
back-up plates against which the photographic film would be ten- 
sioned to lie in the focal surface. They did a magnificent job on 
both assignments. 

By June 1957 a sufficient number of the three types of glass blanks 
had been received from Schott and from Corning to assure uninter- 
mpted production during the remainder of the year. Military Air 
Transport Service (MATS) had already flown 40 of the 48 large 
glass disks for the corrector-plate assembly from Germany to Con- 
necticut, and transported another 5 during the summer. This was one 
of the many ways in which the Air Force cooperated with the Observa- 
tory and facilitated the work of the program. 

Perkin-Elmer erected a new optical shop for fine grinding and 
polishing of the optical parts of the camera, and by the sunmier of 
1957 were grinding and polishing the test optics. Rough grinding 
of the spheric surface of the corrector optics was done on a machine 
especially built by Frank Cooke of North Brookfield, Mass. The 
rough grinding of the primary mirrors was done at the main plant. 

During these months Sydor spent much of his time at the Perkin- 
Elmer plant, working 10, 12, even 14 hours a day to complete, if pos- 
sible, the first set of optics by late summer. 



SATELLITE-TRACKING PROGRAM — ^HAYES 297 

THE NUNN CAMERA 

Joseph Nunn continued to -work on the design of the camera. By 
September 1956 he had prepared a series of pictorial drawings that 
indicated the general construction, and by late fall he had prepared 
the first blueprints indicating the details, including the optical 
features. 

Here it will be best to describe the camera as it is now used at the 
photographic tracking stations. 

The camera must follow the path of the satellite as it moves across 
the sky. A special mount is required for this purpose. 

Like a star, a satellite rises into the sky from the horizon, culmi- 
nates, and then sets. Here the similarity in their paths ends. Satel- 
lite culmination is not limited to the observer's meridian. Further- 
more, its path on the celestial sphere is not necessarily restricted to 
a semicircle, nor is it symmetrical about culmination. Consequently, 
the angular velocity of the satellite as observed from a point on the 
surface of the earth may change greatly between horizon and 
culmination. 

For these reasons the traditional telescope mount that is designed 
to track stars would be most inadequate to track satellites. On the 
other hand, a mount that would follow exactly every possible path of 
the satellite would be so complex as to be wholly misuitable in the 
field. The mount designed is a simple yet effective compromise be- 
tween these two extremes. 

Set in a gimbal ring, the camera can be turned on its triaxial 
mounting at predetermined speeds to match the predicted motion of 
a satellite. This speed can be continuously varied from zero to 7,000 
seconds of arc per second of time. This latter speed is equivalent 
to traversing the sky from horizon to horizon in 93 seconds. 

The gimbal ring and the drive mechanism are fitted into the yoke 
of an orthodox altitude-azimuth mount. By making the necessary 
settings for azimuth, altitude, and track angle, the operator can direct 
the camera to any point in the sky above 15° elevation in such a way 
that the camera will be driven through that point in the same direction 
as that taken by the satellite during its passage. The actual point 
for tracking is usually about culmination, the highest elevation of 
the satellite as seen by the observer. 

The camera photographs on a 55-nun. film. The field of view of 
the camera is 30° along the track of the satellite, and 5° perpendicular 
to that track. The camera photographs at rates ranging from one 
frame every 2 seconds to one frame every 32 seconds. 

The path swept out by the camera is a great circular arc 130° long. 
In regions away from culmination, there is necessarily a divergence 



298 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

between the path of the camera and the path of the satellite ; however, 
the image of the satellite does remain long enough within the field of 
the camera to enable the operator to obtain a sequence of photographs 
that define its path. 

The camera mount also incorporates an oscillating mechanism that 
permits the operator to photograph alternately at different angular 
velocities. Wlien the optimum combination of satellite image and 
reference star field is required, the camera can be set to photograph 
alternately at the angular velocity of the satellite and at the component 
of sidereal motion along the path of the satellite. At the first of these 
velocities the satellite image is stationary and well defined on the 
frame, while the star images are trailed into lines about 1 mm. in 
length. At the second velocity the star images are short and well 
exposed, while the satellite image is trailed. 

Negotiations were now under way for awarding the contract for the 
construction of the camera. While a number of firms were considered, 
including Perkin-Elmer, who wanted to build the camera as well as 
to fabricate the optics, the contract was given to the Boiler & Chivens 
Co. of South Pasadena, Calif. A small machine manufactory 
employing at that time probably 25 persons, the Boiler & Chivens 
organization had in the past worked very successfully with Joseph 
Nunn in the production of instruments designed by him. The con- 
tract arrangements with Boiler & Chivens ^^ were completed on 
October 4, 1956, exactly one year before Sputnik I was sent into 
orbit. 

Manufacturing the optics on the East Coast and the mechanical 
elements on the West Coast not only presented some difficult logistics 
but also complicated the fabrication of the camera itself. There was 
no opportunity of fitting the optics until after the corrector cell and 
the mirror had been made and delivered to South Pasadena, at which 
time, of course, the mechanical elements of the camera would be 
virtually completed. This made it necessary for the work to be done 
with extreme care so that there would be no last-minute delay because 
parts did not fit. 

The optical components of the camera were extremely large and 
complex ; in fact, the corrector cell optics were and still are the largest 
aspheric refractor lenses ever built. While the problem of mounting 
a 30-inch mirror had many times been solved for individual telescopes, 
it had not been solved for the mass production of 12 cameras. The 

^2 This decision to award the contract to them was based in part on the possibility of 
Nunn and Boiler & Chivens working closely together In the production of the camera, and 
in part, of course, on the proved ability of the firm to turn out work of high quality and 
on schedule. Whipple and Hynek, who had wide contacts throughout the rather special- 
ized field of optical Instrumentation, were convinced through their dealings with Joseph 
Nunn that Boiler & Chivens would be the best firm to manufacture the camera. 



SATELLITE-TRACKING PROGRAM — ^HAYES 299 

various components had to be mounted in such a manner that they 
would maintain the proper position relative to each other and relative 
to the rest of the camera. At a number of conferences, Mr. Nunn, 
representatives of Perkin-Elmer, and the Observatory staff developed 
the details of the design of a series of holding rings for the corrector- 
cell optics and the method for mounting the mirror. 

Early in 1957 a scale model of the camera was built and painted 
in the brilliant colors that Nunn and Stinnett had decided upon. It 
was a beautiful piece of equipment; Whipple and Hynek showed it 
proudly to groups they addressed, and certainly it did much to 
dramatize to the public the U.S. satellite-tracking program. 

The manufacture of the camera was one of the finest achievements 
of American industry. Of entirely new design and of complex 
structure, 12 of them had to be built without the construction of a 
prototype, and without the testing of the individual components of 
the system. The cameras were built almost concurrently, and the 
first one completed had to work. And once the large components were 
put into production, there was no opportunity to change any of the 
details. 

By June of 1957 Boiler & Chivens were devoting more than 50 
percent of their manufacturing facilities to the production of the 
camera parts. Subcontractors in the Los Angeles area were simul- 
taneously fabricating the frame and tube sections and machining 
the castings for the corrector cells. Meanwhile, contracts had been 
placed for the manufacture of the necessary electronic equipment 
for the operation of the camera and the Norrman clock, including 
the frequency control unit for the camera drive and the automatic 
transfer switches for emergency power. 

The Observatory had by then also determined the type of film 
that was needed for the camera. After a series of experiments 
at the Agassiz Station of Harvard Observatory, the staff chose 
the famous ID-2 emulsion, which is still used today for about half 
of the satellite-tracking work. It provided the spectral distribution 
that the Observatory needed, that is, reflected sunlight, and was a 
faster film than any of the other emulsions then available. Some 
40,000 feet of this film was ordered from Eastman-Kodak and put 
in storage for tests of the camera in South Pasadena and at the New 
Mexico field station in the fall. 

THE NORRMAN CLOCK 

By the summer of 1956 the details of the clock to time the photo- 
graphs taken by the Baker-Nunn camera had been fairly well defined. 
To replace the mechanical presentation of time in the Norrman clock 
model 110, Robert Davis had developed an electronic sweep, in 



300 AKmjAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

which an electron beam pulses on and off in synchronism with the 
time. This beam is presented on an oscilloscope somewhat similar 
to the picture tube in a television set. The clock with the oscil- 
loscope and the electronic sweep was installed in the dome of the 
15-inch telescope at the Harvard Obsen^atory, and the following 
weeks were spent developing a usable system of time presentation 
on the oscilloscope. 

The next step was to find a radio receiver that would give reliable, 
consistent reception of the WWV time signals from Beltsville, Md. 
Davis chose a fixed-frequency receiver so that station personnel could 
not use the set for listening to anything except WWV ! 

It was then necessary to arrange for some emergency power supply, 
since the stations would be located in areas where the local power 
would not be especially reliable. Following specifications drawn up 
by Davis, an electrical firm in Cambridge built an emergency system 
similar to that used for railroad signals. It worked exactly as 
required but used a rather expensive type of battery. Since the cost 
was prohibitive, the 12 camera stations were actually supplied with 
emergency power systems using ordinary automotive batteries, which 
were to prove inadequate. 

By the end of June 1956 the timing system pieced together from 
various components was functioning satisfactorily at the Harvard 
Observatory. The staff then began to think seriously of how the 
time presentation could be photographed inside the Baker-Nunn 
camera. Dr. Hynek obtained from Edward Halbach of the Mil- 
waukee Astronomical Society a photographic slave clock that was 
compatible with the modified Norrman Time Standard and that 
illimiinated whirling dials by means of an electronic photographic 
strobe lamp. After preliminary testing, Hynek and Davis deter- 
mined that this slave clock was essentially what they would need, 
once an oscilloscope presentation was added to it. Now they had 
a complete prototype slave clock that, properly reduced in size and 
made to fit mechanically inside the Baker-Nunn camera, would give 
the time presentation required. 

In July Mr. Norrman came to Cambridge and was shown the 
assembly. This led to his building the model 111, which was bas- 
ically a model 110 with the oscilloscope, the auxiliary circuits for an 
electronic presentation of microtime, and other accretions. Mean- 
while, Davis completed the assembly of a prototype time station and 
successfully tested it in August. 

Davis then went to California to discuss with Joseph Nunn and 
with Boiler & Chivens the integration of the clock and the camera. 
A firm decision was made that all the synchronous motors in the 
camera would be driven from the accurate 60-cycle current of the 



SATELLITE-TRACKING PROGRAM — ^HAYES 301 

Norrman clock,^^ In addition, they decided that Boiler & Chivens 
woiild build the mechanical parts of the slave clock, but that the 
contract for the electronic components would be placed elsewhere. 

By spring of the following year the first model 111 clock arrived 
in Cambridge. It turned out to be somewhat less reliable than had 
been hoped, although it did maintain the same accuracy as model 110. 
Furthermore, since the clock was subject to rather complex break- 
downs difficult to repair, it required constant and careful maintenance 
that would prove to be yet another responsibility on the overburdened 
shoulders of the early observers. The addition of the oscilloscope 
and other components to model 110 had taxed to the limit the capac- 
ity and the performance of the original Norrman clock. 

Meanwhile, Shapiro & Edwards of Pasadena, Calif., were awarded 
the contract for engineering and building the time-presentation 
system within the camera itself ; and yagi antennas for the reception 
of WWV signals at 10, 15, and 20 megacycles were ordered, as well 
as the cable for connecting the crystal clock and camera. 

Early in the summer of 1957 the model 111 was found to be capable 
of time interpolation during a 6-hour interval to an accuracy of 1 
ten-thousandth of a second ; during this test the device was continu- 
ously compared with the WWV signals from the time service station 
of the National Bureau of Standards. 

The model 111 was put into production at the Norrman Labora- 
tories, and in September a clock was shipped to South Pasadena, 
Calif., for testing with the camera itself. 

FIELD ORGANIZATION 

THE BAKER-NUNN CAMERA STATIONS 

At the IGY conference in Barcelona, Spain, in September 1956 
members of the Observatory stail held lengthy discussions with rep- 
resentatives from other countries for the establishment and operation 
of the Baker-Nunn camera stations. Sites were being considered in 
South Africa, Spain, Iran, India, Australia, Japan, Hawaii, the 
Netherlands West Indies, Argentina, and Peru, in addition to two 
in the United States. There were also discussions of the possibility 
of establishing stations in Egypt, Anglo-Egyptian Sudan, and 
Ethiopia. 

Agreements for the maintenance of the stations were to be for a 
2-year period, with the further stipulation that the contracts could 
be extended indefinitely upon approval of the parties concerned. The 



1^ Tests proved that the model 111 would not only operate the slave clock but would 
also provide precise voltage for the frequency controlled generator that would supply the 
motors of the camera. 



302 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 




SATELLITE-TRACKING PROGRAM — ^HAYES 303 

Smithsonian was to provide the scientific equipment for all the sta- 
tions, as well as other materials and services as needed. 

Diplomatic and exchange problems would involve not only the 
arrangement of contracts, but also visas, import regulations, customs 
duties, personal income taxes, exchange of currency, and special 
import restrictions. In large measure, these questions were to be 
resolved through the U.S. Department of State. 

Early in 1957 members of the Observatory toured a number of 
countries to inspect suggested sites. Dr. Whipple visited proposed 
sites in Florida and Spain. Dr. Hynek went to Argentina, Peru, and 
the Netherlands West Indies, and made preliminary arrangements 
for the establishment of stations there. Dr. Henize undertook similar 
missions in Spain and the Union of South Africa (now the Republic 
of South Africa) . Meanwhile, Japan and Australia, as part of their 
participation in the IGY program, agreed to equip the stations in their 
countries, except for camera, clock, and accessories, and to provide the 
observers. In most of the countries cooperation was immediately 
forthcoming, and arrangements proceeded smoothly. 

The 12 Baker-Nunn camera stations are the following : 

Organ Pass, N. Mex. — 'On the slope of St. Augustin Mountain 
overlooking the Wliite Sands Proving Ground and the White Sands 
National Monument, this site is used cooperatively by the Smithsonian 
satellite-tracking program and the Harvard Meteor Program. The 
Smithsonian expanded the Harvard building to house both projects. 
In September 1957 material and equipment for this first Baker-Nunn 
camera station were received. 

Olifantsfontein, South Africa. — In August of 1956 Dr. Menzel of 
the Harvard College Observatory and Dr. Whipple approached C. G. 
Hide of the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research of South 
Africa to arrange for the establishment of a station in that country. 
The site selected was Olifantsfontein, which means literally the ele- 
phant's fountain or the elephant's drinking pool, a small town halfway 
between Pretoria and Johannesburg, on an almost flat, bleak veldt 
plateau broken by occasional scrub and timber. 

The South African National Committee for the IGY provided the 
buildings, which were completed by November 1957. Except for 
the camera house, these are prefabricated rondavels, circular in struc- 
ture, with conical roofs of 14-foot diameter ; they provide an unusual 
combination of native architecture and 20th-century scientific tech- 
nology. Around the station are the antennas of a large broadcasting 
station, part of the communications system of the South African 
Government. 



304 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

Woomera^ Australia. — The Weapons Eesearch Establishment,^* a 
branch of the Department of Supply, Commonwealth of Australia, 
operates the station independently but in close cooperation with the 
Smithsonian. The site was completed by the Establishment on Oc- 
tober 1, 1957. At this huge Woomera complex of scientific projects, 
the Establishment also maintains with the U.S. Naval Eesearch Lab- 
oratory a Minitrack station, the only one that is operated jointly with 
a Baker-Nunn observatory. 

The nearby village has about 3,000 people. The altitude varies 
from about 350 to 450 feet above sea level, with gentle undulations. 
The surface is mostly rock and clay. Ten inches of rain marks a 
good year. 

The Baker-Nunn camera house differs considerably from the Smith- 
sonian plans in that it was built to withstand very dusty storm con- 
ditions and to provide satisfactory housing for precision equipment 
in a climate where the temperature rises in the summer to 120° F. 
in the shade. The joint operation here of the Minitrack and the 
Baker-Nunn in the one set of buildings including communications, 
computations room, and stores, has proved the value of running one 
large station instead of two small ones. 

San Fernando^ Spain}^ — The station is near the sea and close to 
the Spanish Naval Observatory, in the town of San Fernando, popu- 
lation 40,000, about 50 miles northwest of Gibraltar. 

Arrangements were initiated in mid-1956 with M. C. Herero of 
the Battelle Institute in Madrid, and early in 1957 with Admiral de 
la Puente, director of the Spanish Naval Observatory.^^ Construc- 
tion of the buildings was completed in February 1958. 

The station is unique in that it is an urban establishment, but 
the layout and buildings could be called typical of most of the other 
Baker-Nunn stations built by the Smithsonian. These buildings were 
among those that in late 1961 were showing signs of real deterioration ; 
they had, of course, been intended to last only the 18 months of the 
IGY. 

Mitdka^ Japan. — The station in Japan was established through the 
cooperation of Dr. Takesi Nagata, Secretary of the Japanese National 
Committee for the IGY, and Dr. Masasi Miyadi, coordinator for 

^* The Weapons Research Establishment itself tests and develops new weapons for the 
British and the Australian Governments. It has the world's largest overland rocket 
range, running 1,200 miles across the country, and maintains large laboratories and work- 
shops at Salisbury near Adelaide, the capital of South Australia. Some 300 miles from 
Adelaide, Woomera is the field-testing station and the range head. 

15 Before this site was chosen, Almeria was rejected because of heavy cloud cover, and 
Izana In the Canary Islands because of gravity anomalies. 

" The Spanish Naval Observatory has played a distinguished role in European as- 
tronomy ; it was one of 14 observatories that undertook the Carte du Ciel at the turn of 
this century. The tradition of cooperative work is thus well established. 



SATELLITE-TRACKING PROGRAM — ^HAYES 305 

the IGY in that country and director of the Tokyo Astronomical 
Observatoiy. The Tokyo Observatory, which operates the station, 
is in Mitaka, a town of 1,000 people, about 40 miles outside Tokyo. 
Construction of the buildings on the Observatory grounds was com- 
pleted in January of 1958. 

The region around Mitaka is on the fringe of the monsoon area; 
in the summer, observing is limited by clouds and rain. 

Naini Tal., India. — The station in India was established through 
the cooperation of the Uttar Pradesh Observatory at Naini Tal, and 
the program was coordinated by Dr. M. K. Vainu Bappu, its chief 
astronomer. 

Some 150 miles north of New Delhi, the station is about 8 miles from 
Naini Tal, a town of 12,000 people. Naini Tal was the first of the 
hill stations of India, where the European administrators in the days 
of the British rule used to go to escape from the extreme conditions 
in summer on the plains of India. The Baker-Nunn camera was the 
first instrument installed at Manora Peak, the newly selected site 
for the Observatory. 

Here also the monsoon season interferes considerably with the ob- 
serving program. There is some difficulty in transportation — with no 
airport nearby, materials must come by rail or road from New Delhi. 

Arequipa, Peru. — Arrangements for the station in Peru were made 
through the chairman of its National IGY Committee, Dr. J.A. 
Broggi, and through Fernando L. de Romana of Arequipa. Con- 
struction of the station was begun in December of 1957. 

Arequipa, with a population of 95,000, the second largest city in 
Peru, had at one time been the location of a Harvard observing sta- 
tion that for 5 years had been directed by Leon Campbell, Sr. 
The site for the Baker-Nunn station, about 3 miles outside the city, 
was provided under contract agreement by the National University 
of San Agustin, which operates a seismic station nearby. 

Arequipa and the village where the station is actually located are 
in an elevated valley some 8,000 feet above sea level in very moun- 
tainous country with peaks up to 20,000 feet high. It rarely rains 
there, although the skies are often cloudy. 

Shiras, Iran. — Arrangements for the Shiraz station were coordi- 
nated by Dr. H. K. Afshar, a member of the faculty of science of the 
University of Teheran. The universities of Teheran and Shiraz as- 
sumed the construction cost of the building and arranged for the lease 
of land. 

Shiraz, in southwest Iran, has a population of 130,000. The city 
itself is in a fairly flat, green valley. Quite arid mountains surround 
it, and the station is in the foothills of these moimtains on the prop- 
erty of the Nemazee hospital about 4 miles outside the city. 



306 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

Shiraz is right on the edge of the monsoon belt, which has an ad- 
verse effect on observing conditions, as do also haze and dust. Trans- 
portation into the city is by air, even heavy equipment now being sent 
in by plane because there is no convenient seaport entry. 

Curagao, Netherlands West Indies. — Arrangements for this station 
were made through Dr. P. C. Henriquez, secretary of the Develop- 
ment Authority of the Netherlands Antilles Government. The De- 
partment of Public Works of the island administration provided 
drawings, contract arrangements, and supervision of the construction 
of the buildings, and some materials. 

Curagao is about 40 miles from the Venezuela coast. Together 
with the adjacent island of Aruba, it is the world's largest oil-refining 
complex. Willemstad, the capital of the island, is one of the world's 
major ports in terms of tonnage handled each year. 

The temperature on Curagao is about 80° F., day and night, winter 
and summer. Rain is infrequent, and the whole island is extremely 
dry. The station is about 4 miles from Willemstad, toward the center 
of the island, on the Santa Barbara estate owned by the Newport 
Mining Co. 

Jupiter^ Fla. — Originally, Cocoa Beach was considered as the sta- 
tion site, but the Observatory finally decided on Jupiter because it was 
away from sea spray and had what little elevation could be found in 
Florida. The station, some 15 miles north of Palm Beach, is located 
in Jonathan-Dickinson State Park, site of Fort Murphy, a U.S. 
military training post during World War II. By February of 1958 the 
camera house had been completed, and the U.S. Air Force made avail- 
able to the station personnel a large administration building. 

Villa Dolores^ Argentina.— Kn agreement was drawn up between the 
Smithsonian and the Observatorio Nacional Argentino for the estab- 
lishment of the station near Villa Dolores in the general region of 
Cordoba. Land was provided through the Astronomical Observatory 
of the University of Cordoba. 

Villa Dolores is in central Argentina, over the high sierras from 
Cordoba 100 miles away. It is a large rural town with a population 
of about 30,000. The station is about 5 miles from Villa Dolores in 
fiat, open farming country. The climate is good, but there is con- 
siderable rain. 

Mount Haleahala^ Hawaii. — The station is located within 50 feet 
of the top of Haleakala Mountain, the largest dormant volcanic crater 
in the world.^^ The University of Hawaii supervised the construction, 
and the Geophysical Institute of the University through the work of 



" Originally, the Smithsonian had considered establishing the station at the Mauna Loa 
Observatory ; however, the possibility of volcanic eruption and the logistics problems pre- 
sented by 50 miles of bad roads resulted In the rejection of that site. 



SATELLITE-TRACKING PROGRAM — ^HAYES 



307 



ADMINISTRATIVE BUILDING 




AUXILIARY POWER SUPPLY' 

Figure 3. — Typical layout of a Baker-Nunn camera station. 



Dr. Walter Steiger contributed much to the success of the satellite- 
tracking program there. 

From the farming centers and cane towns of Maui, 22 miles of 
extremely winding road lead up the mountain to the station. Most 
of the observers live in a small village about 12 miles by road from 
the top. 

On Maui there is almost every kind of climate. One side of the 
mountain is completely arid, the other side is a tropical rain forest. 
The station is about 10,000 feet in altitude, above almost all clouds; 
if there are clouds, they are seen as fog. Cinder dust in a strong wind 
is a problem, although not a serious one. 

Even before these sites were actually chosen, realistic plans had to 
be made for constructing, equipping, and supporting the stations. 
Usually, the establishing of an astronomical observatory requires 
three to five years. Now, 12 had to be built in less than a year and 
a half. Furthermore, the staff of the Smithsonian had to decide what 
would be needed to make the stations reasonably self-contained and 
self-sufficient before they knew where the stations would be located. 

The layout of each station and the design of the buildings were the 
responsibility of Elwyn Balch, who served as a construction consultant 
to the Observatory and who worked closely with local authorities in 
planning and constructing the facilities at each site. 

The general layout consisted of a building to house the Baker-Nunn 
camera, an administration building, a powerhouse, a tool and fuel 
shed, and possibly a separate unit for developing film. The design 
for the camera house included provisions for a sliding roof that would 



308 



ANlSrUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 



05 



'2 2 





cl 




o 


H 


-»^ 




o3 


CO 


o 


■< 


o 


H 


i-J 



--iTtiiMTtfOO-^WCOfMfNOOOO 



t^t^t^OOCDiOCOlM-^OCCO 



IC t^ CO t--. 
(N t^ O (M 



I I 



oOr-io5iooscocot^oooeot^ 



lOlMCOiOCOt^OOiCOt-OiO 






^.9 



tc 



03 



tC 1-1 

03 O 

Ah ts 

Cl 1=1 

C3 o3 

O O 



^ a 



O) 



cu 






T3 

R a 

eS I— I 
o ._ 

>> 3 



c3 << r- 
O , 



°3 A ^ 



.b tH 






«-- 

e3 3 
=J o3 



OOOOOOOOOr-^T-lr-l 

OOOOOOOOOOOO 



SATELLITE-TRACKING PROGRAM — HAYES 309 

permit the camera to operate down to within 15° of the horizon; the 
roof would protect the camera during hours w^hen it was not in use 
and during inclement weather, an especially important provision 
because of the KzFS-2 glass used in the corrector cell. Arrangements 
were made to obtain small prefabricated buildings from the Air Force 
to house the power facilities, fuel, and maintenance tools. 

James Knight and Aubrey Stinnett were assigned the actual selec- 
tion of the innumerable items required for the successful operation 
of the stations. These included not only the beam antennas and 
numerous items of electronic equipment, but also dozens of household 
necessities, tools, and other essential supplies. 

By late spring of 1957 approximately 95 percent of all the material 
required for the independent operation of the 12 satellite-tracking 
stations had been received, cataloged, crated, and stored, and was 
ready for shipment. By June all material and equipment except the 
camera and the clock had been received at the Australia and Spain 
stations, and from then on each station was in its turn set up for 
operations preliminary to the arrival of the camera and clock. 

Probably as much as 10 tons of equipment was sent to each station, 
all without the loss of any important item, and even without any 
serious mishaps. There was a fire aboard a ship carrying equipment 
to Japan, but it did very little damage. A truck was "lost" in Iran 
for several months. 

The selection of the observers for the Baker-Nunn camera stations 
presented as many and as difficult problems as the selection of the 
sites and the acquisition of material. Drs. Whipple, Hynek, Henize, 
and several other members of the Smithsonian staff, as well as Drs. 
Frances Wright and Kichard McCrosky of the Harvard Meteor Pro- 
gram, all took part in the selection of the first observers. In fact, at 
times there were more interviewers than interviewees. 

The first task was to define precisely the kind of personality needed 
for the operation of a station, and the skills required to make a success 
of the optical observing program. There were as many different 
opinions as there were interviewers. It turned out that neither edu- 
cation nor past experience was the best criterion. The Harvard people 
already knew that movie writers, artists, plumbers — in fact, almost 
any type of person — might serve brilliantly as an observer if he had 
the proper attitude and a certain basic intelligence and mechanical 
aptitude. Wliat was needed was a person who had eagerness, en- 
thusiasm, a spirit of adventure, and especially a sense of responsi- 
bility — one who could impart to the interviewers the feeling that what 
he most wanted to do was to photograph satellites. 

The first observers were essentially romantics, men who had a 
common interest in this new age of satellites and an intense curiosity 



310 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

about science and the world. They were also men of considerable 
versatility and strong character, as indeed they had to be, for they 
were about to undertake a kind of do-it-yourself project, often a one- 
man project until assistant observers could be obtained. They were 
men who could not only operate the Baker-Nunn camera but also 
drive nails, who could not only work cooperatively and efficiently with 
scientists but also deal with strangers in strange lands. 

With these characteristics went another that was to create some 
difficulties. They were not organization men. Chosen for their 
ability to make decisions, they frequently proceeded to make them in 
contradiction to and sometimes in defiance of orders from Cambridge. 
Chosen for their sense of responsibility, they often felt themselves 
to be more responsible to the station than to the over-all operation of 
the Satellite-tracking Program. Chosen for their ability to improvise, 
they sometimes improvised in ways that lessened the scientific value 
of their observations. In other words, they were pioneers, with all 
the strengths and weaknesses of the pioneer type. 

The first observer to be hired was Samuel Whidden who had had 
several years as an observer on the Harvard Meteor Program. While 
he was to assist in the details of station establishment, the preparation 
for station operations, and the selection and training of other observers, 
it is perhaps characteristic of the program that his versatility was put 
to work on the choice of film for the Baker-Nunn camera. 

By the summer of 1957 classes for the observers had been started. 
Courses in basic electronics and in the maintenance of the Norrman 
time standard were given by Andrew B. Ledwith. Classes in spherical 
astronomy, photography, and the reduction of observations were pre- 
sented by other members of the stajff. Plans then called for the first 
group of observers to go to Organ Pass, N. Mex., for final training as 
soon as the first Baker-Nunn camera had been received there. 

THE MOONWATCH PROGRAM 

During the summer and early fall of 1956, the appeal of the Ob- 
servatory for Moonwatch teams was heard and heeded throughout 
the world. That summer the Observatory issued the first Bulletin for 
Visual Observers of Satellites, in which the code word Moonwatch 
was adopted officially. Incidentally, another code name had been a 
strong contender — SEESAW, for "I see it, I saw it" ; fortunately, it 
lost. 

In that first Bulletin appeared a brief outline of the objectives, or- 
ganization, qualifications for observers, and operational procedures of 
Moonwatch. Each team was to set up a "fence" of observers. When 
an observer watching one "picket" of the fence saw the satellite, he was 
to signal to the timekeeper and theji obtain a precise fix of the object 



SATELLITE-TRACKING PROGRAM — HAYES 



311 



CLAMP 




TOP VIEW 



EYEHECE 



STRAP 



END BRACKET 



FRONT-SURFACE 
MIRROR 



CROSS-SECTION VIEW 




ACHROMATIC 
7^ /LENS 




^^CLAMP 



ALUMINUM PIPE 



ERFLE EYEPIECE 



Figure 4. — Schematics of 50-mm. Moonwatch monoscope. 



against a background of stars and on the meridian pole in the line 
of sight of tlie telescope. The group leader would then send the 
information to the communications center in Cambridge. 

The program had three major teclmical problems. The first was 
that of precise timing of the observations. This could be done by 
use of either a stopwatch or a chronogi'aph checked against accurate 
short-wave radio time signals broadcast by "WWV or by some other 
national time service. The second was the accurate recording of the 
satellite position against the backgroimd of stars. For this purpose 
copies of the Skalnate Pleso Atlas of the Heavens were distributed to 
the teams. The third technical problem, of course, was the choice of 
a suitable telescope; the instrument had to be able to pick out objects 
of the 7th or 8th magnitude ; and it had to be of simple, rugged de- 
sign so that it could be easily used and would prove durable through- 
out the life of the program. 

To determine the specifications of the telescope and the organiza- 
tional details of the typical team, G. R. Wright, chairman of the Na- 
tional Advisory Committee, established a pilot Moonwatch station at 
his home in Silver Spring, Md. There a group of amateur astrono- 
mers tested some 30 different optical instruments that had been pro- 
posed for visual tracking. Three of these instruments ^^ met ad- 
mirably the needs of the program, and from them the Observatory 
drew up the specifications for what was to become known as the Moon- 
watch monoscope; the eyepiece was a wide-angle Erfle of 1.25-inches 

" BuUt by Roy Walls of Washington, D.C., by Arthur S. Leonard of Davis, Calif., and 
by Roy M. Griffing of Los Altos, Calif. 



625325—62- 



-21 



312 ANITOAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

focal length and a field of 68°. It contained a threaded focusing 
mount, making it easy to adapt to an aluminum tube. The objective 
was 51 mm. in diameter, with a focal length of 180 mm., or slightly 
more than 7 inches. The objective and the eyepiece were to be 
mounted in an aluminum tube, 8.5 inches long. A front surface alu- 
minized or silvered mirror was set at a 45° angle in front of the ob- 
jective, thereby permitting the observer to watch his slry area in com- 
fort, irrespective of the satellite's altitude above the horizon. This 
Moonwatch telescope could, under excellent seeing conditions, acquire 
objects as faint as the 7th or 8th magnitude or even a little fainter, and 
its wide field of view would be adequate to acquire a satellite even 
though preliminary information concerning its position and orbit was 
inexact. 

The Observatory could not provide instruments for the teams, so 
that it was necessary for the individual members of the teams either 
to make or purchase their own telescopes, or to rely upon the largesse 
of local firms, organizations, and others who were interested in sup- 
porting the project. The optics for the Moonwatch telescope could 
be purchased for about $20, and the assembly could be done in a home 
workshop; an estimated 40 percent of the observers built their own. 
Most of the others purchased the so-called EDS COPE (a monoscope) , 
manufactured in New Jersey, for about $50. Thus, at a relatively 
low cost, each Moonwatch team was able to equip itself with the needed 
optical instruments, and at its own expense. 

At the same pilot Moonwatch station, tests were made of a number 
of means of keeping time. The result was the acceptance of an in- 
expensive chronograph that could be adjusted to a rate of 2 seconds 
of gain or loss per day and could be checked periodically against 
short-wave radio time signals. 

Early in 1957 a Moonwatch steering committee was appointed to 
provide scientific and technical advice and to coordinate Moonwatch 
observations with other phases of the optical tracking program. The 
chairman of the committee was Dr. George Van Biesbroeck of the 
Yerkes Observatory, who was a consultant to the Smithsonian. 

Leon Campbell, Jr., had already been appointed supervisor of 
Moonwatch. He had joined the staff of the Observatory in the fall 
of the previous year and had devoted most of his time to public in- 
formation, but some also to the formal organization of the visual 
observing program. While Dr. Armand Spitz had instituted the 
initial steps of Moonwatch, his duties at the Spitz Laboratories did 
not allow him sufficient time to attend to the organization of the teams. 

Most of the stations planned to use the typical Moonwatch mono- 
scope. Since that telescope would not, however, be able to acquire 
objects much fainter than the 8th magnitude, an instrument of 



SATELLITE-TRACKING PROGRAM — HAYES 313 

deeper penetration might be needed to locate fainter satellites or 
bright satellites at distant apogee. Thus, a network of Moon watch 
stations strategically located and equipped with special telescopes was 
organized. These stations were to be located in Cape Town, Johannes- 
burg, and Pretoria, South Africa; at the Kirkland Air Force Base 
in Albuquerque, N. Mex. ; near the Holloman Air Force Base in 
Alamogordo, N. Mex. ; at the Naval Ordnance Test Station in China 
Lake, Calif.; and at the Vincent Air Force Base in Yuma, Ariz. 
These stations were equipped with 8-power M-IT elbow telescopes of 
50-mm. objective of 120-mm. diameter and a field of 2.4° ; these were 
supplied by the Naval Research Laboratories, which also furnished 
limited teclinical guidance in their use. 

By spring more than 70 Moonwatch stations had been organized 
in the United States and its territories, with a total of approximately 
1,500 observers. The function of the visual program was now thought 
of in somewhat larger terms. Already the Observatory recognized 
the vital ways in which Moonwatch was informing the American 
public. The teams were to contmue in increasing measure to educate 
their communities and to enlist laymen in activities that would pro- 
mote a general interest in science. 

At about this time Moonwatch solicited the aid of the Air Force, 
which named Col. Owen F. Clarke to act as liaison officer between the 
Pentagon and the Observatory. One of his first suggestions was that 
if Moonwatch was going to put on an alert, an idea which had been 
in the minds of the staff for some time, it should try to simulate the 
passage of a satellite : a small light trailed across the sky by a plane 
at 7,000 feet altitude and 120 miles per hour would give the approxi- 
mate motion, magnitude, and direction of a satellite. 

On May 17, 1957, Moonwatch held its first test alert, limited to sta- 
tions in the continental United States. Six aircraft flights to simulate 
the satellites had been scheduled in widely separated parts of the 
country. The individual stations were not told that the "satellites" 
would be towed by planes so that the alert did in effect test the ac- 
quisition capabilities of six of the teams as well as show up those 
stations that might imagine rather than actually see a satellite. Some 
75 of the 77 registered teams participated to the extent of reporting 
directly by telephone to headquarters in Cambridge. The alert thus 
also served to test communications procedures as well as to sustain 
the interest of the people who had cooperated so splendidly in or- 
ganizing these teams. 

The alert demonstrated much enthusiasm, cooperation, skill, and 
hard work among the teams, as well as the effectiveness of telephone 
communication. While the general readiness of the Moonwatch teams 
was highly gratifying, in some instances stations did not report 



314 ANTSrUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

clearly the position and time of the sighted object, were not familiar 
with the use of ^VIW time signals, and showed a certain amount of 
observing strain — that is, after 10 or 15 minutes the eyes of the observ- 
ers proved to be considerably fatigued and to lose efficiency. 

Meanwhile, teams were being formed abroad. At the September 
IGY conference in Barcelona, each participating country was asked 
to appoint a coordinator for satellite observations. Later the Inter- 
national Astronautical Federation meeting in Rome, Italy, volun- 
teered its cooperation and facilities in establishing Moonwatch stations 
in many countries throughout the world. 

More than a dozen teams were organized in South America. When 
Dr. Hynek visited countries there in his search for sites for the Baker- 
Nunn stations, he also publicized the purpose of, and the need for, 
Moonwatch teams. In Chile he met Father German Saa, Dr. Heil- 
maier, and Dr. Ruttlant, all of whom were interested in organizing 
Moonwatch teams. In Argentina he traveled with Teofilo Tabanera, 
president of the Argentine Astronautical Federation, who now offered 
his services in organizing teams. Sr. Tabanera also translated the 
Bulletin for Visual Observers into Spanish and circulated it through- 
out the Spanish-speaking countries of Latin America. 

Of the foreign teams, however, none was more numerous and none 
more enthusiastic than those in Japan. By the summer of 1957 some 
25 Moonwatch teams had been organized there, and Dr. Masasi Mi- 
yadi, director of the Tokyo Astronomical Observatory, had been 
appointed tracking coordinator of the Japanese IGY committee. He 
in turn enlisted the cooperation of the Astronomical Society of Japan, 
the Oriental Astronomical Association, the Japan Astronomical Study 
Association, and the Ikomason Astronomical Society. While the 
teams were led by experienced amateur and semiprofessional astrono- 
mers, most of the members were college and high-school students. 

There were at least two reasons for the popularity and success of 
Moonwatch in Japan. The Japanese are especially interested in 
things scientific, particularly and traditionally those involving the 
use of lenses. Also, three of the large newspaper chains in Japan 
gave the Moonwatch program a vast amount of publicity, helped to 
find sites, and even equipped some of the teams. Eventually more 
than 80 teams were organized there. 

On July 19, 1957, during the evening twilight, a second national 
alert involving approximately 80 Moonwatch teams in the United 
States was held. Simulated satellites were towed by airplanes of 
the Civil Air Patrol. As before, the stations phoned their reports 
to Cambridge. The alert showed a marked improvement in the op- 
erational techniques of the teams. 

By early October 1957 Moonwatch teams had been organized in the 
following countries: Argentina (10 teams) ; Australia (5) ; Belgian 



SATELLITE -TRACKING PROGRAM — ^HAYES 



315 




Figure S. — Typical layout of a IMoonwatch team in action, 1957. 

Congo (1) ; Chile (6) ; Formosa (2) ; Denmark (1) ; Egypt (1) ; 
Guatemala (3) ; India (1) ; Iran (1) ; Italy (2) ; Japan (30) ; Liberia 
(1) ; Mexico (1) ; Netherlands West Indies (1) ; Peru (2) ; Philip- 
pines (2) ; the Union of South Africa (4) ; Germany (10). 

HEADQUARTERS ORGANIZATION 



COMPUTATIONS 

The functions of the computing section of the Observatory were 
defined by early 1957 as: (1) to predict future motions of a satellite 
after initial observations had been made by the Moonwatch teams; 
(2) to supply the Baker-Nmin stations with all data necessary for 
them to photograph transits of the satellites; (3) to measure exactly 
the position of the satellite on the photographs taken by the Baker- 
Nunn stations; and finally (4) to analyze all orbital data received 
from the Moonwatch teams, the Baker-Nunn stations, and other 
sources, as a basis for evaluating geophysical constants and geodetic 
positions. 

As a first step the Observatory held a conference on units and 
constants for satellite-orbit computations late in January. Attend- 
ing this conference, and already members of the Smithsonian staff, 
were Drs. Hynek, Jacchia, Lautman, Schilling, and Sterne, and Mr. 
Slowey, as well as a number of other scientists. They discussed earth 
constants and atmospheric constants and considered what values 



316 AKNTUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

might be adopted for satellite computations. Their views about 
values for the earth constants were widely divergent, and the par- 
ticipants felt that it would be premature and outside their province 
to recommend the adoption of one system to be used by all scientists 
who would be concerned with computing satellite orbits. They did 
decide, however, that since the U.S. standard atmosphere was based 
on the most recent observations available and differed greatly from 
earlier atmospheres, it should serve as the basis in computing satellite 
drag. 

As a second step the Observatory made arrangements with In- 
ternational Business Machines Corporation to use the 704-computer 
installation at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. IBM con- 
tributed the machine time and agreed to supply one or two program- 
mers for part-time technical assistance, and Dr. John Kossoni was 
engaged full time on the satellite program. 

The computer was to be used to convert satellite observations into 
what are called the orbital elements, which in turn would serve as a 
basis for predicting future transits of the satellite and for analyzing 
atmospheric density and gravitation properties. The orbital ele- 
ments refer to the size and shape of the elliptical orbit of a satellite 
in motion around the earth, the orientation of that orbit in space, and 
the position of the satellite in its orbit at any particular time. 

In accordance with the laws of Kepler, an astronomical body orbit- 
ing a larger one moves in an ellipse ; the apogee is the point in that 
ellipse farthest from the center of the larger body, the perigee, the 
point nearest. The first orbital element is thG semimajor axis (a) 
of the ellipse, that is, half the length of the long axis. The second 
element is the eccentricity (e), which is the degree of "flattening" of 
the ellipse; it can vary from for a circle to 1 for a parabola. 

The orientation of the plane of the orbit is given by the next two 
elements, the right ascension of the ascending node (Q,) and the 
inclination (i). The former is the angle between the vernal equinox 
and the point at which the orbit crosses the Equator in a northerly 
direction ; and the inclination is the angle that the plane of the orbit 
makes with the plane of the Equator. 

The orientation of the orbit in its plane is specified by the fifth ele- 
ment {<j}), called the argument of perigee, which is the angle from 
the ascending node to the perigee point. 

The sixth orbital element is the time of perigee passage (T) , that is, 
the moment at which the satellite is at perigee. 

If a satellite were orbiting a perfectly spherical body without at- 
mosphere, and if there were no forces such as radiation from the sun 
or lunar gravity, the orbit would be stationary and conform to 
Kepler's laws. From three accurate observations of the satellite, it 



SATELLITE-TRACKING PROGRAM — HAYES 



317 




318 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

NORTH POLE 



INTERSECTION OF 
PLANE OF ORBIT 
WITH EARTH. 




PERIGEE POINT 



EQUATOR 



Y 

TO VERNAL 
EQUINOX 

Figure 7. — Diagram of angular orbital elements, fi is the right ascension of the ascending 
node; w is the argument of perigee; i is the inclination; -y is the vernal equinox. 



would then be a relatively simple matter to define the orbit. The 
earth, however, is not perfectly spherical, and it is surromided by an 
atmosphere that produces a "drag" on objects moving through it; and 
there are other forces at work on the satellite. Consequently, the 
satellite's orbit is perturbed, and, unless the perturbations can be 
anticipated, predictions will be in error. 

It cannot be emphasized too much that one of the major reasons 
for launching artificial earth satellites was to improve our knowl- 
edge not only of the shape of the earth but also of these other forces 
that act upon the body as it moves through space. No one could 
reasonably expect that any program developed before the launch- 
ing of the first satellite would accurately predict the orbit. Fur- 
thermore, all estimates of atmospheric density were on the low side, 
with the consequence that the orbit programs worked out before 
October 4, 1957, used an inaccurate estimate of this important 
parameter. 

During the first part of 1957 Dr. Cunningham continued to work 
on analytical problems of artificial earth satellites. Since, during 
one revolution, the orbit of the satellite follows essentially an ellipse, 
he derived a fairly complicated set of equations to compute the devia- 
tions from, or perturbations of, a perfect ellipse. From the practical 
standpoint of making predictions, the major term in these equations 
accounts for the rotation of the orbital plane of the ellipse in space. 

Cunningham's analytical theory could in principle have been used 
to calculate predictions of satellite positions or satellite transits. 



SATELLITE-TRACKING PROGRAM — HAYES 319 

There was, however, one problem. No one knew what values to 
insert into the equations for the flatness of the earth; consequently, 
one could not predict the rate of rotation of the orbital plane. 

Using the numerical integration procedures developed by Cunning- 
ham, Dr. Lautman worked out a second computer program. This 
required taking a set of initial conditions, carrying the numerical 
integration forward step by step to the times at which observations 
were available, computing the observations that would be seen if the 
orbit were correct, comparing those with the actual observations, 
and computing the differences, that is, the residuals. This is done 
for one estimated orbit and a dozen observations, from which are 
derived a dozen sets of errors or discrepancies. Then, one by one 
the elements of the assumed orbit are corrected, and the corrections 
are applied to the original orbit, new predictions are computed, the 
predictions are then compared with new observations, and a second 
set of residuals is determined. A statistical study of this ensemble 
of residuals leads to an estimate of the "best orbit." 

The program developed by Lautman could not be used for making 
practical day-by-day predictions. First, it required a very good 
initial guess at the orbit. If the guess were poor, the next guess might 
be even worse, and impossible predictions would result. Second, 
the calculations for each improvement of the orbit were very time- 
consuming on the IBM-704 electronic computer. As much as an hour 
might be required for each stage of the improvement. 

Late in the summer of 1957 the Observatory staff decided that they 
would probably require a third computer program which would 
permit the computation of an orbit from three observations. This 
would be especially needed since the differential correction programs 
demanded an initial orbit that was fairly accurate. Jack Slowey 
modified a method developed primarily by Robert Briggs to include 
the secular variations in the orbital elements due to the earth's bulge. 
Working closely with John Rossoni of IBM, Slowey and Lautman 
were debugging the program early in October. 

COMMUNICATIONS 

In the summer of 1957 Norris D. Pease, a communications con- 
sultant, laid out the plans for the communications center at 79 Garden 
Street, Cambridge. His objective was to provide means of communi- 
cation between Cambridge and the satellite-tracking stations and 
the Moonwatch teams and to coordinate these so that there would 
be rapid transmittal of information. Through this network the com- 
munications center could send preliminary orbital data to the Moon- 
watch teams, the teams could make observations and send determina- 
tions of time and position to Cambridge; Cambridge then could 



320 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

prepare predictions of satellite passages over the Baker-Nunn stations 
and send these data to the stations; and these, in turn, after photo- 
graphing the satellite, could return the results of their observations to 
Cambridge. 

Specific links of the network were established through the facili- 
ties of military agencies and several private communications com- 
panies. For each Baker-Nunn camera station, the link had to be 
worked out on an individual basis. The plans as laid out by Mr. 
Pease called for completion of the communications center by No- 
vember 1, at which time the following facilities were to be available: 

First, a teletype machine Model 28, linked with the commercial 
network of the American Telephone & Telegraph Co.; this was to 
be used primarily for two-way conference calls. 

Second, a teletype machine Model 19, also linked with the com- 
mercial network of the American Telephone & Telegraph Co., to 
be used principally for the transmission of messages to domestic 
sources and for the establishment of outgoing and incoming contact 
with overseas networks through the American Cable and Radio, West- 
ern Union, and RCA. 

Third, a Navy teletype machine Model 19, to provide noncommercial 
contact with all government and military installations on the Mili- 
tary Communications Network, and to serve for the delivery of mes- 
sages via military installations to various observatories and to Moon- 
watch leaders throughout the world. 

Finally, a Western Union machine to provide commercial linkage 
with Cambridge and with Boston Western Union offices for transmis- 
sion of domestic messages. 

In August, Charles Peterson, who had formerly served as a com- 
munications expert with the U.S. Navy, was appointed supervisor 
of the communications of the Observatory. 

ACCELERATING 

The schedule called for the completion of the jEirst camera in South 
Pasadena by September 30 and full operation of the station at Organ 
Pass by November 15, 1957. In Cambridge the Moonwatch program 
was progressing beyond all expectations, and computations and com- 
munications were well advanced. 

Voices were heard, however, particularly in Washington circles, 
that the tracking program was behind schedule. There was even the 
strikmg suggestion that Project Vanguard was being slowed down 
because there were no facilities for tracking the satellite once it was 
in orbit. Meanwhile, an IGY meeting was scheduled for late Sep- 
tember and early October in Washington. Dr. Whipple felt it was 
imperative that the Observatory have a working camera and that 



SATELLITE-TRACKING PROGRAM — ^HAYES 321 

star photographs taken with it be available for showing at that meet- 
ing, in order to scotch these unfounded runiors. He asked that con- 
tracts for the optics and the camera be expedited. 

From late August on, one member of the administrative staff and one 
or t\yo members of the technical staff of the Observatory were assigned 
to temporary duty at Boiler & Chivens and another such group at 
the Perkin-Elmer Corp. Both plants then scheduled night and week- 
end shifts. Boiler & Chivens subcontracted some of their work to 
a number of small concerns in the Los Angeles area and acted as an 
assembler and manager in the final manufacturing process. 

By the middle of September Perkin-Elmer completed the first set 
of optics and the first aspheric-surfaced back-up plate, and these were 
rushed to South Pasadena. 

Meanwhile, Boiler & Chivens had continued production of the 
camera, and a building had been constructed for its testing. Large 
enough to house six Baker-Nunn cameras at one time, it had a sliding 
roof over half of it so that the cameras could photograph the sky 
through an angle of nearly 90°. 

The street lights aromid the Boiler & Chivens plant might have 
interfered with the testing program at night, and although the city 
fathers could not turn them off, they did paint them out. They also 
had the branches trimmed off several trees in order to provide a rea- 
sonably clear horizon. 

During the last week of September the first camera was completely 
assembled; film was run through it, and adjustments were made so 
that the camera could handle it properly. A photographic room was 
set up, and delivery was accepted of several thousand feet of the ID-2 
film. 

On October 2 the camera was moved out of the factory assembly 
area into the test building that had just been completed, although the 
sliding roof had not yet been put in place. That evening and the fol- 
lowing morning, members of the Observatory then began to test the 
camera by photographing the stars. After careful focusing, the final 
alignment of the optics was only a few thousandths of an inch off from 
what had been calculated. The staff then decided that certain minor 
mechanical alterations and adjustments would have to be made, and 
that these would require that the camera be torn down, some machin- 
ing done, and the camera put back together again. 

The next day was October 4, 1957 ! 

ACKNOWLEDGMENTS 

Dr. Fred L. Whipple and Mrs. Lyle G. Boyd provided the oppor- 
tunity and offered the encouragement for the writing of this little 
history. 



322 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

A paper of this sort must be written from primary documents and 
also from personal reminiscences. For many of the first, I am indebted 
to E. Stuart Fergusson, who worked his way through many a thick 
file to find, copy, and annotate important papers. Also, I interviewed 
on tape 17 men and women who participated in these events. To those 
now anonymous sources I am most grateful. 

The drawings were made by Ed De Matteo. 



Reprints of the various articles in this Report may be obtained, as long as 
the supply lasts, on request addressed to the Editorial and Publications 
Division, Smithsonian Institution, Washington 25, D.C. 



The Main Lines of Mathematics' 



By J. L. B. Cooper 

University College of South Wales and Monmouthshire 



Everyone knows some mathematics, yet few persons have an idea 
of what the subject is about, even in the imprecise way in which they 
know that physics is about matter or zoology about animals. Most 
people either confuse mathematics with applied mathematics — and 
let me explain, to avoid tliis confusion, that I am using the word 
mathematics in its strict, and indeed its only logical, interpretation 
to mean pure mathematics — or think that it is not about anything at 
all, but it is a farrago of rules of calculation, such as one encounters 
in elementary arithmetic, a rather distasteful preliminary to really 
interesting pursuits such as keeping accounts or learning engineering. 
This attitude develops into and is encouraged by some prevalent 
theories of mathematics : the word "farrago," indeed, is one that I have 
borrowed from Wittgenstein. Without doubt these theories have the 
effect of laying an exclusive emphasis on the most uninteresting parts 
of mathematics, manipulative teclmiques and the learning of notation ; 
and one can hardly doubt that they contribute to the mechanistic 
and rule-of -thumb methods of teaching the subject which are in evi- 
dence in so many schools and are complained of in several recent 
reports on secondary school mathematics. 

These theories have beliind them the authority of the most fashion- 
able modern school of British pliilosophy, that of linguistic analysis, 
and of its predecessor, logical positivism ; and with their backing have 
penetrated all sorts of diverse fields, up to esthetics, literary criticism, 
and the brains trust. So widely held are they that it would be just to 
describe them as a folklore about our subject. 

The best-known phrase from this folklore or mythology of mathe- 
matics is the sentence "Mathematics is a language." This is not, to be 
exact, a tenet of any philosophical school. It is far too imprecise for 
that. Even with all the possible twists one can give to the meanings 
of the words "mathematics," "language," and "is," it is hard to find, 



* Reprinted, with extensive revisions, by permission from The Advancement of Science 
(London), vol. 17, No. 70, March 1961. 

323 



324 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

a sense which does not make it either absurd or trivial. Literally, it 
is certainly absurd. It is characteristic of a language that it has no 
concepts of its own, that anything said in one language can be trans- 
lated into another. A statement in English, when expressed in French, 
is no longer an English statement ; but a mathematical statement can- 
not be made into a nonmathematical statement by any translation, 
while perfectly good mathematical statements — for instance: "the 
sum of the angles in a triangle is two right angles," "given any prime 
number, there is a prime number larger than it" — can be expressed, as 
here, in perfectly good English, and remain the same when expressed 
in Russian, Greek, or Japanese as far as mathematical content is con- 
cerned. As far as I know, the origin of the phrase is an aphorism of 
Willard Gibbs, "Mathematics is the language of the Sciences"; but 
this is a statement about the sciences, not about mathematics, just as 
the sentence "English is the language of Shakespeare's plays" is not 
a description of the English language. What it means is that mathe- 
matics has a highly developed notation of its own, which is used in the 
other sciences ; and this is clearly true, unless it is misinterpreted into 
an identification of mathematics with its notation. 

The underlying meaning of the phrase "mathematics is a lan- 
guage" is that mathematics has no content of its own. This is ex- 
pressed with greater precision in positivist and related philosophies 
by saying that mathematical theories are purely a matter of definition, 
or consist of a set of tautologies ; or, and this comes to much the same 
thing, that in a mathematical system the truth or falsity of the state- 
ments made depends only on the form of the statements, just as the 
grammatical correctness of an English sentence is determined by the 
form of the sentence in relation to the rules of syntax; it is this last 
formulation which links this view with the linguistic theory of 
mathematics. 

To understand the degree of truth, and the errors, in these theories 
we must consider the structure of a mathematical theory if it is 
presented in an ideally exact form. Suppose that we have such a 
theory — say the theory of the integers, or Euclidean geometry, to give 
examples — set out with the greatest possible precision and rigor. We 
should find, to begin with, that the theory had a set of words or con- 
cepts in terms of which all the other expressions of the theory are 
defined : for since any concept can be defined only in terms of other 
concepts, and the process must start somewhere, there must be some 
terms which are not defined ; these we call the undefined terms of the 
theory. Next we find a set of initial assumptions, or axioms of the 
theory, which take the form of a set of statements about the undefined 
terms. The theory itself then follows in the form of a chain of 
logical arguments proceeding by deduction step by step from the 



MAIN LINES OF MATHEMATICS — COOPER 325 

axioms, every step being a statement implied by the axioms and the 
statements previously proved. 

This procedure is not quite exclusive to mathematics. It can be 
followed equally well in other disciplines, and is sometimes found in 
works on mathematical physics, in particular in dynamics, though a 
strict axiomatic procedure in which no assumptions are introduced 
apart from the axioms which are stated initially is rare outside mathe- 
matics. There are, however, two crucial differences between an 
axiomatic system in mathematics and one, however strictly carried 
through, in physics. The first is that in mathematical physics some 
at least of the undefined terms are intended to be names of specific 
things or relations in the physical world and the second is that the 
validity of the system depends on the correspondence between the 
deductions made within the systems — the theorems of the system — 
and the observed behavior of these physical things. The correspond- 
ence may be pretty remote and abstract, in the most developed 
theories, but it must in some sense be there. In a mathematical 
theory, on the other hand, the undefined terms need not be the names 
of specific things, and no observational evidence can, therefore, affect 
the validity of the theory. 

The classical example of a mathematical system is Euclidean geom- 
etry. In its traditional form the words used in the system — point, 
line, distance, and so on — were held to refer to things which exist in 
the real world or at any rate are approximately copied by real things ; 
and the axioms of the geometry are supposed to be true statements 
about these real things. They were also supposed to be self-evidently 
true, with the exception of the axiom of parallels; it was hoped for 
centuries that it could be shown that to deny the axiom of parallels 
would lead one to a contradiction with the other axioms, but eventually 
geometries were constructed in which the axiom of parallels was 
denied — for example, Lobachevskian geometry, in which the existence 
of an infinite number of lines through a given point parallel to any 
given line is asserted. What is more, these systems were proved to 
be free from contradiction. 

Here is one way in which we can prove the consistency, that is, the 
freedom from contradiction, of Lobachevskian geometry. Draw a 
circle T in the ordinary Euclidean plane. Now we make a miniature 
dictionaiy, interpreting words which occur in Lobachevskian geom- 
etry by assigning to them meanings in terms of figures inside r ; for 
clearness, the words occurring in Lobachevskian geometry will be 
enclosed in inverted commas to distinguish them from the same words 
in their normal Euclidean sense. (See fig. 1.) 

"Point" and "line" are to mean, respectively, pomt inside and part 
of a line inside r. We say that two "lines" are "parallel" if they 



326 ANlSrUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 




Figure 1. 

do not meet at any "point" (therefore, if they do not meet inside r). 
It is clear that if I is any "line" and A is any "point" not on that line, 
then there are an infinite number of "lines" through A which are 
"parallel" to I; in figure 1 all the "lines" in the sector between AP 
and J.^' are "parallel" to I. 

So far, we have managed to contradict one of the axioms of Euclid- 
ean geometry ; but this is not of interest unless we can show that the 
other concepts and axioms of Euclidean geometry can be defined and 
retain their truth. The difficulties are the definitions of "distance" 
and "angle" ; these definitions are more technical, and that of "angle" 
depends on a knowledge of complex logarithms; but the reader who 
does not know about these may be consoled by the remark that it is 
not essential that he understand the details of these definitions. 

The "distance" between two points B and G is defined as follows: 
If BG meets at P and Q^ the "distance" from 5 to 6^ is 

u-n^)) 1 „ PBjQG 

^^ -^^^ PC^ 

where PB and so on are the ordinary Euclidean (signed) distances. 
As G tends to P or Q, its "distance" from B becomes infinite, so that 
the "length" of a line is infinite as in ordinary geometry. It is easy 
to check that if B, G, D are collinear, then ''BG''+''GD''=''BD,'' so 
that these "distances" add in the usual manner. It is possible, though 



MAIN LINES OF MATHEMATICS COOPER 327 

more difficult, to prove that other Euclidean properties of distance 
such as that two sides of a triangle are greater than the third side 
hold. 

To understand the definition of "angle," one must know that from 
any "point" A two imaginary tangents can be drawn to the circle r. 
The slopes of these tangents are complex numbers, say ^i and tz] if 
AXf AY are any two lines through A, with slopes mi, rrh, then ^ 

"angle AXAY''=^. log (^i-^i) (^^-^^) 

where 

^=^f—l. 

Now a geometry as rich in content as that of Euclid can be con- 
structed. Indeed all the theorems of Euclidean geometry which do 
not need the axiom of parallels are true in it — the celebrated "Pons 
Asinorum" about isosceles triangles, theorems on congruence of tri- 
angles, for instance; but the sum of the angles of a triangle is less 
than two right angles, Pythagoras's theorem, is false, and there are 
no similar triangles which are not congruent. 

Another model for non-Euclidean geometry — Riemannian geom- 
etry this time — can be obtained by considering a sphere S, and letting 
"point" mean a pair of points on S lying at opposite ends of a diam- 
eter, and "line" a great circle (i.e., a circle in which S is cut by a plane 
through its center). Here again, the theorems of Euclid which do 
not depend on the axiom of parallels are valid ; the reason for choosing 
pairs of points to mean "point" is that we wish to ensure that any 
two "points" lie on one and only one "line"; but now there are no 
"parallel lines" (think of the lines of longitude on the earth, which 
are great circles and, though apparently parallel at the Equator, meet 
at the Poles) and the sum of the angles in a triangle is greater than 
two right angles. 

Thus we have found sets of objects constructed in terms of concepts 
of Euclidean geometry which obey non-Euclidean geometry. A set 
of objects which obeys the axioms of a mathematical system is called 
a model for that system. We have here models for both Lobachev- 
skian geometry, in which through every point in a plane with a line 
there is an infinite number of parallels to that line, and for Rieman- 
nian geometry, in which there are no parallels to that line. 



» This definition of "angle" may be made clearer by the observation that In ordinary 
Euclidean geometry, the angle between two lines with slopes nh and nij Is equal to 

1. (mi-i) (Tn»+t) 
2« ^(m,+«) (mj-0 
80 that in Euclidean geometry the two tangents to V are replaced by the two lines through 
A of slopes i and —i; these are the lines joining A to the circular points at infinity. 

625325—62 22 



328 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

The important conclusion we can draw from the existence of a 
model is that the system does not contain contradictions ; that is, it is 
consistent. It is vital that a mathematical system be consistent ; for 
if one can prove two contradictory statements in any logical system, 
one can prove any statement whatever, and in an inconsistent system 
any statement whatever is a theorem, so that the system is possibly 
useless. 

From the point of view which obtained from the time of the Greeks 
to the 19th century, the validity of Euclidean or non-Euclidean 
geometry was thought to depend on their truth for points and lines 
in physical space. From the point of view of modern mathematics, 
this is a question of physics, not of mathematics ; it is a difficult one 
for physics to settle, because even if non-Euclidean geometry is 
physically valid its results for small enough figures differ little from 
those of Euclidean geometry, just as it is impossible by studying a 
small part of the earth to decide whether the earth is flat or round. 
Actually the general theory of relativity teaches that non-Euclidean 
geometry holds in the real world ; but this question in no way affects 
the mathematical status of non-Euclidean geometry, though it cer- 
tainly gives an added interest to its study. Even without this the 
study of non-Euclidean geometry would not be an idle game; for 
instance, Lobachevskian geometry has important applications in the 
theory of functions of a complex variable. Validity of a mathemati- 
cal system in the modern sense is a question of its consistency; if a 
geometrical system is consistent, it is a worthwhile object of mathe- 
matical study, and, experience has shown, it generally has application 
in subjects where the "points" of the geometry may be entities far 
removed in their nature from our intuitive idea of the points of space. 

Our proof that non-Euclidean geometry is consistent uses models 
based on Euclidean geometry and therefore assumes implicitly that 
Euclidean geometry is consistent. We can go on to construct a model 
for Euclidean geometry in which the word "point" is interpreted to 
mean an ordered pair (or, in the case of three-dimensional geometry, 
an ordered trio) of real numbers ; this gives a proof of the consistency 
of Euclidean geometry, but it assumes the consistency of the theory 
of the real numbers. For the real numbers, again, models exist : the 
most familiar is that in which a real number is taken to be an infinite 
decimal, that is, a sequence of integers. Thus one can construct models 
for the real numbers in terms of the integers and the theory of sets. 

Frege and Eussell and the school of mathematical logicians which 
followed tliem aimed to go still further, and to eliminate the integers 
as independent concepts by defining them in terms of sets. Thus one 
can define "one" to be the set of all sets having only a single number, 
"two" to be the set of all pairs, and so on ; the apparent circularity 



MAIN LINES OF MATHEMATICS — COOPER 329 

is easily avoided. This important construction provides us with a 
way of giving a model for any part of mathematics in terms of con- 
cepts derived solely from set theory. 

This process was called by Frege and Russell tlie reduction of math- 
ematics to logic : but this is rather misleading, for what they meant by 
logic was set theoiy, which is vastly different from traditional logic. 
"Wliat the construction gives us is a proof of the consistency of mathe- 
matics depending only on the assumption that set theory is consistent : 
and if set theory were identical with logic in the traditional meaning 
of the word, its consistency would not be open to reasonable doubt. 
Unfortunately, hardly had the new theory of sets been established 
before serious antinomies were discovered arising from the arguments 
used in it; and even apart from these antinomies some mathemati- 
cians considered certain arguments of set theory to be suspect. These 
difficulties have not yet been overcome. Certainly, axiom systems for 
set theory have been constructed which avoid all the known antino- 
m.ies and do not appear to contain any new ones; but we have no 
proof that these axiom systems are self-consistent, and there is strong 
reason to believe that we can never have such a proof. 

Let us now assess the degree of truth in the theories that mathe- 
matics consists of tautologies or that it is solely a matter of definition. 
These theories are frequently coupled, though they are in fact dis- 
tinct. They will be found, for example, in Ayer's Language^ Truth 
and Log'tc^ where they are supported by the picturesque, if scarcely 
verifiable, statement that "A being whose intellect was infinitely power- 
ful would take no interest in logic or mathematics. For he would be 
able to see at a glance everything that his definitions implied, and, 
accordingly, could never learn anything from logical inference which 
he was not fully conscious of already." This couples the definition 
theory of mathematics with the theory that, within a given set of 
definitions — and axioms are regarded here as definitions — the truth 
or falsehood of any statement can be decided by a purely mechanical 
process — say, that a computer could be built which, on having fed to it 
the axioms of mathematics, could settle the truth of any theorem, given 
enough time; for a computer with indefinite time is the nearest we can 
get in this world to Ayer's being with infinite intelligence; and, if his 
philosophy needs divine help to save it, we are not better off in the next 
world, if theology is correct in holding that divine omniscience ex- 
tends to the physical world as well as to mathematics. 

The tautology theory of mathematics is essentially a result of gener- 
alization from two special cases. It is based, first, on the obvious fact 
that it is true of elementary aritlunetic; the truth of an arithmetical 
calculation, however complicated, can be checked by a purely mechan- 
ical decision process. Second, it is based on the fact that the same is 



330 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

true for elementary logic, the propositional calculus. Any of the 
theorems of this calculus, which is to be foimd, for example, at the 
beginning of Principia Mathematical can be checked by a purely 
mechanical process. It was this which led Wittgenstein to put for- 
ward the tautology theory of mathematics ; for he accepted Russell's 
claim to have reduced mathematics to logic, and equated logic with 
the elementary propositional calculus. However, it has been proved 
that no mechanical decision process is possible even for the whole of 
mathematical logic, let alone for all of mathematics. The tautology 
theory should, therefore, be regarded as one wliich applies to some 
relatively trivial parts of mathematics, but not to the more interesting 
parts and certainly not to the whole subject. 

The definition theory has more truth to it ; indeed, it has a validity 
for any section of mathematics. It is quite correct to say that the 
undefined terms in any mathematical system have the properties as- 
sumed in the axioms as a matter of definition, and that any theorems 
of the system are true as a result of these definitions. A statement 
about points, lines, and so on which is valid if these things occur in a 
model for Euclidean geometry may be false for a model of a non- 
Euclidean geometry. 

However, it would be just as true to say that the formulae of chem- 
istry are a matter of definition ; for if we assigned the names of the 
elements in a different way we would get quite different chemical 
formulae. Nevertheless, a statement that chemistry is a matter of 
definition would ignore the fact that however the names are jumbled, 
for a chemical system to be valid there must be some way of assigning 
elements to the names which makes the formulae correct ; to make the 
analogy clear, there must be some assigmnent of elements to names of 
elements which makes the actual behavior of matter a model for the 
chemical system. In the same way, the assertion that mathematics is 
purely a matter of definition ignores the problem of the validity of 
mathematical systems. For particular systems, this validity can be 
established within mathematics, by constructing models for a given 
system in terms of another axiom system — say geometry in terms of 
the real numbers ; but eventually we must come to a primary system of 
axioms, and if we are to have any sort of guarantee of validity for this 
it must be found outside mathematics. 

What sort of guarantee can we have ? This is a very difficult ques- 
tion, and it would be wrong to suggest that mathematics must be tied 
down to, or that it does imply, any one answer. Certainly there can 
be no absolute guarantee of the consistency of mathematics : any science 
is liable to error, and the progress of mathematics in the future may 
reveal unsuspected inconsistencies, as it has done in the past. However, 
this does not allow us to dismiss the whole problem of consistency; 



MAIN LINES OF MATHEMATICS — COOPER 331 

to do SO would be to treat mathematics as a sort of game, like a chemical 
system with any random combination of elements allowed: and it 
would make the possibility of applying mathematics an insoluble 
problem. We cannot take the subject seriously without a conviction 
that any contradictions there may be are peripheral and remediable. 
Such a conviction cannot, again, be based solely on an appeal to 
empirical experience, since, for example, mathematics deals with sets 
of indefinitely large magnitude and with infinite sets, and these cannot, 
as such, be part of empirical experience. It is because of this that 
empiricist philosophers try to explain mathematics away, in the ways 
I have described. I do not wish to involve myself in metaphysical 
knots ; but it seems reasonable to say that the source of our convictions 
about mathematics must arise from a correspondence between the 
terms of mathematical theories and some of the things which our minds 
either bring to or find in our experience of the external world, or create 
by generalization, abstraction, and extrapolation beyond experience. 
I shall leave this thorny subject and go on to discuss what it is that 
mathematics deals with. 

The subject of any mathematical theory is a mathematical structure; 
and by a mathematical structure I mean a set of objects for which some 
defined relations exist between its elements, or between sets of its ele- 
ments or even between sets of sets of elements. 

Most of the mathematical structures we encounter are complex, in 
the sense that they are combinations of structures with fewer relations. 
Complex structures can be seen as being built up out of elementary 
structures : I am using the word elementary in the sense of logically 
simple, not the pedagogic sense. There are two main types of ele- 
mentary structure in mathematics, which between them appear to 
cover all the cases which arise in modern mathematics : 

(1) Algehraic structures^ m which the defined relations are between 
finite numbers of elements. 

(2) Topological structures^ in which the relations are between pairs 
of sets, or between individual elements and sets, or between individual 
elements and sets of sets. 

I can best show what this means by first taking a familiar complex 
structure, the real numbers, and explaining the elementary structures 
which it involves. The real numbers have three elementary algebraic 
structures : 

(1) The structure of addition : three numbers a, 5, c may be related 
by the rule a+h=G. 

(2) The structure of multiplication : three numbers may be related 
by db = G. 

(3) The structure of order: two numbers a, h may be related by 
a>'b. 



332 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

The structures are linked by a variety of laws : thus 

A. a + 5 = 5 + a a+ {h + c) = {a+l) + c 

ab = l)a a{hc) = {ab)c 

a{h + G) =db + aG 

There is an element 0, such that a+0=a for all a. For any a there is 
an element — a, such that a+ { — a)=0. 

B. There is an element 1 such that a.l = a for all a. 

C. For each a=0 there is an element 5 such that al) = l. 

In addition, the real numbers have a topological structure, which is 
what is involved whenever we talk about such matters as limits, con- 
vergence and so on. The typical relationship which describes the 
topology of the real numbers is that of neighborhood : 

A neighborhood of a real number a is any set which includes an 
interval with a as midpoint. 

If we consider geometry, again, we are once more dealing with a 
complex structure. The structures involved in geometry are mostly 
algebraic: they involve finite sets of objects, in relations such as inci- 
dence — a point being on a plane, a plane passing through a line. It is 
only when we come to consider differential properties — tangency, 
curvature of curves and surfaces — that topological structures are 
brought in. 

The characteristic differences between classical mathematics — say 
that of a century ago — and that of modern mathematics is that classical 
mathematics dealt preeminently with complex structures, modern 
mathematics with less complex ones. 

The reason for this is very practical. If we discuss a complex struc- 
ture that structure may be so tightly specified by the numerous rela- 
tions which define it that, roughly speaking, only one example of the 
structure exists: or, to be more exact, if we have two sets of objects 
which both have that structure, then they are exact pictures of one 
another, as one Euclidean plane is an exact picture of the other : the 
objects in the two sets can be made to correspond univocally so that 
all the relations are transferred by the correspondence. For instance, 
anything which obeys the sets of laws A, B, C, and in addition has the 
order structure of the real numbers is an exact picture, in this sense, 
of the real numbers. On the other hand, a less complex structure may 
have as examples vastly different things. Thus, any set of objects 
which obeys the laws A and B is called a commutative ring with unit. 
Any deductions we make which are based exclusively on A and B will 
hold for any such ring. Now, the polynomials form such a ring : so do 
the functions of a real variable ; and consequently if we restrict our- 
selves to the axioms for a ring, our conclusions will be valid for a wide 
variety of mathematical objects, whereas conclusions based on the en- 



MAIN LINES OF MATHEMATICS — COOPER 333 

tire set of axioms for the real numbers cannot be guaranteed to hold 
for any structures other than the real numbers. 

An effect of this tendency to deal with structures which, because 
they are simpler in the logical sense, are therefore less narrowly de- 
fined, is that some important mathematical terms have come to have 
their meanings extended from the original sphere of reference to cover 
things having some structure in common with the original notion. 
A good example is the word "space." The use of this word has been 
extended to any set of elements which shares the algebraic properties 
of displacements in Euclidean space — namely, the possibility of being 
added together and of being multiplied by a number; this gives us 
the notion of a vector space. On the other hand, the word is used for 
any set of objects with a topological structure. These two ideas com- 
bine very fruitfully in the theory of topological vector spaces, and, 
more specifically, the theory of linear function spaces. By these are 
meant sets of functions: the "points" of the space are functions, /(a?), 
g{x), of some variable x/ functions can be added or multiplied by 
numbers to give other functions. Moreover, we can define the distance 
between functions, in various ways: for instance we might take the 
"distance" from f{x) to g{x) to be the maximum value of 
\f{x) —g{x) I if we are dealing with continuous functions. Alterna- 
tively, we can define it, for the same, or a wider space of functions, by 

"distance from f{x) to ^ (a?) "={/!/(«) -g{x)Ydx]y^ 
A space of functions with this last definition of distance has prop- 
erties very similar to those of Euclidean space ; it differs in having an 
infinite number of dimensions, but properties like the theorems on 
parallels, on the sum of the angles of a triangle, Pythagoras's theorem, 
are as in ordinary Euclidean space ; we can for instance say that two 
functions are "perpendicular" to one another if / f{x) g{x) dx=0. 

We can transfer notions derived from Euclidean spaces to these 
spaces ; and this has proved helpful in a number of problems both of 
pure mathematics and of mathematical physics. For example, when 
we are considering a vibrating system, such as a stretched string or 
a bell, the possible forms of displacement of the system are "points" 
in a function space, in which the "distance" above is connected with 
the energy of the displacement. The mechanical properties of the 
system enable us to define a sort of "ellipsoid" in this space ; and the 
principal axes of the "ellipsoid" are connected with the pure, simple 
harmonic vibrations of the mechanical system. 

The method of transferring ideas from the examples of mathe- 
matical structures which we encounter in ordinary mathematical ex- 
perience to more general examples of these structures is both fruitful 
and dangerous — dangerous because we may be misled by arguments 



334 ANlSfTJAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

based solely on analogy. It is therefore necessary to make sure that 
our arguments are based solely on our axioms, and that we do not 
introduce tacitly assumptions brought over from Euclidean space. 
Kigor of argument is therefore highly important in this sort of 
mathematics; its role is to ensure that anything which we assert to 
follow from the axioms of a structure holds for all structures obeying 
those axioms and not merely for those familiar to our intuition. 

I would like to illustrate the variety of things which can share a 
mathematical structure by discussing the example of a Boolean ring. 
Now a ring means any set of objects which obeys the axioms A, B. 
A Boolean ring is one which in addition satisfies the axioms : 

a+a=0, a^=a^ for all elements a 

The simplest structure which obeys the laws of a Boolean ring con- 
sists of just two objects, and 1, with the usual law of multiplication 
and the usual law of addition save that 1 + 1=0. An example of such 
a ring is got by taking to mean the set of all even numbers, 1 to 
mean the set of all odd numbers: then 1 + 1=0 means that the sum of 
any two odd numbers is even. More complicated examples are : 

(1) Propositional logic. — The symbols of the algebra stand for 
propositions, that is statements which are either true or false. If a 
is a proposition, a=0 means that a is false, a=l that a is true. If a 
and h are two propositions, ab is the proposition which says that both 
a and h are true, a+h says that one but not both oi a+h are true. 
Then 1+a says that a is false: for 1 is true, and not both of 1 and a 
are true, a+a is always false: for either, neither, or both of a and a 
are true; aa is the same as a. We have then, <2+a=0, a?=a; and the 
other axioms of ring theory can be verified relatively easily. 

(2) Subsets of a set. — The symbols of the algebra stand for subsets 
of a set, which is denoted by 1 ; stands for the empty set. If a and 
h are two sets, ab is the set of objects common to a and h,a+b the set 
of objects lying in just one of a,b. Again it is easy to verify the 
axioms. 

(3) Electrical switching circuits. — The symbols of the algebra 
stand for electrical circuits which involve switches. a=0 means that 
the circuit a is always broken, a=l that it is always connected. If 
two circuits are so arranged that they are always made or broken to- 
gether, they are denoted by the same symbol ; if the one is always made 
when the other is broken, one is denoted by a symbol «, say the other by 
l+«. li a and h are two circuits in series, the circuit they form to- 
gether is denoted by ab; if they are in parallel, the joint circuit is 
a+b + ab. The laws of Boolean algebra are obeyed ; and the symbols 
for a circuit give a means of working out how the circuit behaves. 

To sum up : The role of mathematics is to discover and investigate 
structures which arise in our theoretical treatment of physical experi- 



MAIN LINES OF MATHEMATICS — COOPER 335 

ence and in mathematics itself. Mathematical training should be 
directed to building up an ability to form an intuitive grasp of such 
structures— intuitions of geometric space, of number, of algebraic re- 
lations, and so on; the mechanical side of mathematics, the purely 
linguistic side, that is the ability to read notation, are important, but 
should not be stressed at the expense of understanding. 



Reprints of the various articles in this Report may be obtained, as long as 
the supply lasts, on request addressed to the Editorial and Publications 
Division, Smithsonian Institution, Washington 25, D.C. 



Early Experiments in Instrument Flying ' 



By James H. Doolittle, Lt. Gen., USAF (Ret.) 

Chairman, Space Technology Laboratories, Inc. 



[With 2 plates] 



The development of flight has been a gradual evolutionary process. 
There are, however, certain landmarks along the route, and we may 
consider that there are roughly defined areas of progress between these 
landmarks. 

In the very early days of flying, a slight breeze could cancel or 
delay a flight. I recall seeing my first air show in the winter of 
1909-10 at Dominquez Field near Los Angeles. In those early days 
it was customary for a pilot to wet his finger in his mouth and hold 
it up. If there was enough air movement to cause uneven evaporation, 
thus making one side cooler than the other, then there was too much 
wind to fly. Soon, however, a modest wind was not a deterrent to 
flight, and a good breeze was considered desirable because it shortened 
takeoff and landing distance. 

Next came the period when a pilot was happy only as long as he 
could see the horizon. He might fly in or through clouds, but he 
wanted clear air and a visible horizon when he came back through 
them. 

This paper will deal with the next era, at the end of which a visible 
horizon was not required and during which it became possible to fly, 
and even land, without seeing outside an instrumented cockpit. Today 
aircraft fly safely and reliably in all but the most inclement weather, 
and I look forward to the not very distant future when the airplane — 
or its successor — will fly absolutely regardless of weather and will 
then become not only the fastest, but the most reliable form of 
transportation. 



^ The third Lester Gardner lecture given at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. 
Apr. 28, 1961 ; somewhat modified for publication. A repeat of the lecture was given at 
the Smithsonian Institution on Sept. 28, 1961, by permission of the Massachusetts Institute 
of Technology. 

337 



338 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

BEGINNINGS OF INSTRUMENT FLYING 

Whenever pilots got together for meditation and discussion in the 
immediate post-World War I era, the subject of "flying instinct" or 
flying "by the seat of the pants" was likely to come up. Views were 
divided. Some pilots believed that they could fly indefinitely without 
reference to the visible horizon — because they had done so. Others 
agreed that they had but claimed it was the inherent stability of their 
aircraft which made it possible and not pilot skill. 

In the early twenties the navigational instruments most commonly 
used were the magnetic compass, the altimeter, and the airspeed indi- 
cator. It was customary on cross-country flights to follow railroads, 
or less frequently, highways, and the maps generally used were the 
standard Rand McNally maps of the individual States. These State 
maps were each about the same size and so, unfortunately, were usually 
not to the same scale. 

The personal experiences in the pages that follow are related to 
illustrate conditions which affected all fliers of the era. On Sep- 
tember 4-5, 1922, 1 flew a DH-4 airplane, in which additional gasoline 
and oil tanks had been installed, from Pablo Beach, Fla., to Rockwell 
Field at San Diego, Calif., with one intermediate stop for fuel at 
Kelly Field, San Antonio, Tex. The elapsed time was 22 hours 35 
minutes. It was the first time the North American Continent had 
been crossed in less than 24 hours. 

It was also the first airplane in which I had used a bank-and-turn 
indicator. To obtain the instrument it was necessary to go to the 
Army Air Service Engineering Base at old McCook Field in Dayton, 
Ohio, and "promote" an experimental model through the help of 
cooperative technical friends. This instrument, invented in 1917 by 
Elmer Sperry, Sr., built by Elmer Sperry, Jr., and first flight-tested 
by Lawrence Sperry with Elmer, Jr., as passenger, was not yet in 
common usage or generally available. 

I took off just after dark, having chosen a moonlight night to facili- 
tate night flying, but about 4 hours out I ran into solid overcast and 
then severe thunderstorms. For a while the lightning flashes were 
almost constant and, in the otherwise black night, so intense as to 
light up the gromid clearly for a considerable area. Some flashes 
were so close that their familiar ozone odor could be detected, but 
although it seemed that one could reach out and touch them, none 
struck the plane. 

The air was extremely turbulent and the airplane was violently 
thrown about its axes as well as up and down and, despite its excel- 
lent stability characteristics, was held on a relatively even keel only 
with great concentration and effort. After the lightning died away, 
the turbulence appeared to intensify, and there was about an hour in 



EARLY INSTRUMENT FLYING DOOLITTLE 339 

the jetblack darkness when no ground reference pomt could be seen 
and it would have been quite impossible to maintain proper attitude 
and course without the blessed bank and turn indicator. Although I 
had been flying for almost 5 years "by the seat of my pants" and 
considered that I had achieved some skill at it, this particular flight 
made me a firm believer in proper instrumentation for bad weather 
flying. 

In 1925 I wrote a thesis at the Massachusetts Institute of Tech- 
nology for a doctor of science degree in aeronautics. At first I had 
hoped to study, through carefully controlled flight tests, the pos- 
sibility — or impossibility — of a specially trained pilot orienting him- 
self without flight instruments and determining certain phenomena, 
such as wind direction, without reference to a visible horizon or point 
on the ground. But this subject was not sufficiently abstract for the 
doctorate and was changed to an analysis of "The Effect of the Wind- 
Velocity Gradient," employing flight tests, wind tunnel data, and 
mathematical analyses. The thesis begins : 

There has long been an uncertainty in the minds of aviators regarding the 
effect of the wind on the flying qualities of an airplane. Some pilots claim 
that it is much easier to turn into the wind than with it, and that at any altitude 
they can tell the wind direction by the feel of the ship in a turn, and this even 
though in a dense cloud which would preclude the possibility of obtaining their 
relative motion from any stationary object. 

Other pilots maintain that, regardless of the wind velocity or the proximity of 
the ground, there is no difference in the feel of the plane when turning into the 
wind and when turning with it. They claim that any apparent difference is due 
wholly to the psychological effect on the pilot, resulting from the difference in 
groundspeed in the two cases, and if there is any difference in the ship's perform- 
ance, from a time-altitude standpoint, it is because the pilot handled the controls 
differently. In other words, if the pilot were blindfolded he could not tell the 
wind direction when turning, and a turn made into the wind would be identical 
with a turn made with the wind. This is, of course, considering the turn in 
relation to the medium in which it is being executed and not in relation to the 
curves traced out on the ground. 

There is a similar difference of opinion regarding the effect of a strong wind 
on the rate of climb. Experienced pilots are about evenly divided, half feeling 
that a plane climbs better into the wind, and the other half feeling that the 
wind makes absolutely no difference. 

Seven of the leading pilots of the day were questioned regarding 
the effect of wind on flying performance. The answers given were far 
from consistent, as might be expected from such a group of individual- 
ists. There was, therefore, still considerable confusion — and contro- 
versy — among the experts. 

The conclusions from the thesis, somewhat oversimplified, were that 
in airplane flight — 

1. There is no measurable effect in level flight, at altitude, due to 
wind direction as long as the wind is steady. 



340 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

2. There is no effect on climb due to wind except very near the 
ground, and there the wind-velocity gradient increases the rate of 
climb slightly when flying into the wind and decreases it slightly 
when flying with the wind. 

3. A steady wind has no effect on turning except very near the 
ground, when the wind-velocity gradient causes a slight tendency to 
settle when turning away from a headwind and a slight tendency 
to climb when turning into it. This is most noticeable in strong 
winds and when flying at a large angle of attack or at minimum power. 

Summing up : A steady wind exercises no measurable effect on air- 
plane performance at altitude — except, of course, on groundspeed 
and direction of flight. Very near the ground, however, the effect 
of wind-velocity gradient can be serious, particularly in the case of 
a heavily loaded airplane. The danger is increased by a strong 
tendency on the part of the pilot to pull the nose up or in beyond the 
most efficient angle of attack. This increases any tendency to settle 
and may even cause the airplane to stall and spin in. 

In the early and middle 1920's the Jones-Barany revolving chair 
test was given to all military pilots as a part of their periodic physical 
examination for flying. Normally this test was given with the pilot's 
eyes open, and the flight surgeon looked for variations in times and 
amount of the rhythmic side-to-side movement of the eyes called 
nystagmus. 

In early 1926, Capt. — later Col. — David A. Myers, an outstanding 
Air Corps flight surgeon, decided to augment the routine test by giv- 
ing an additional test consisting of several rotations of the chair with 
the pilot's eyes closed. After the rate of rotation became steady, a 
normal pilot, with ej^es closed, could not tell which way he was turn- 
ing. If the rate of rotation was slowed down and stabilized at a 
somewhat lower speed, the pilot thought the rotation had been 
stopped, and when the rotation actually was stopped he thought he 
was turning in the opposite direction. 

The explanation is that man normally maintains his equilibrium by 
sight, touch, hearing, muscle, and vestibular sense. Touch and hear- 
ing are not important in flight orientation. By using the three re- 
maining senses he can usually ascertain and maintain his position, 
accurately sense the rate and direction of his motion, and generally 
orient himself with relation to the earth. Sight is by far the most 
reliable of these three senses, and when sight is lost, we must get our 
sense of balance and motion from the muscles and from the fluid 
movement sensors in the vestibular canals. If an individual is merely 
displaced, the fluid motions return to zero very rapidly, but if one is 
rotated, it may take from 5 to 25 seconds for the fluid motions to stop. 
During this period an individual can experience a false sense of mo- 



EARLY INSTRUMENT FLYING DOOLITTLE 341 

tion called vertigo. This, of course, explains why early-day pilots 
flying in dense fog or clouds frequently become confused and occa- 
sionally spun in and crashed. 

Capt. — later Col. — William C. Ocker, an early and extremely com- 
petent Army Air Corps pilot and flight researcher, had long been 
interested in instrument flying and in 1918 had tested the then new 
bank-and-turn indicator. In mid-1926 he took Captain Myers' new 
"blindfold test." His first reaction was that Captain Myers had 
played a trick on him or, if not, that his senses had failed him. After 
further consideration he decided that here was proof positive that 
no normal pilot could consistently fly "blind" without instruments. 

Ocker, who had had considerable experience flying with the bank- 
and-tum indicator — he frequently carried one, a quickly attachable 
unit complete with venturi, in his flight baggage — believed this instru- 
ment could correct the pilot's faulty senses. He designed a lightproof 
"black box" which contained a bank-and-turn indicator and a mag- 
netic compass. This box was mounted on the front of the Jones- 
Barany chair. The pilot sealed his face against the opening in the 
box and observed the bank-and-turn indicator and compass. With 
this piece of equipment he could correctly identify the direction and 
rate of his rotation. After the rotation stopped and the compass 
settled down, he could then determine heading. 

Myers and Ocker continued their experiments, and the arrange- 
ment of black box and revolving chair were patented and subsequently 
used in the training of pilots. Later some pilots were to learn to 
fly by instruments alone before they learned to fly under normal 
visual conditions. 

In the late 1920's and early 1930's, Captain Ocker and 1st Lt. — later 
Col. — Carl J. Crane collaborated in the study of instrument flying 
techniques and developed, among other things, a unitary arrangement 
of instruments which would give the pilot a maximum of useful in- 
formation with a minimum of effort and fatigTie. They referred to 
this as a "Flight Integrator." 

In 1932 Major Ocker and Lieutenant Crane wrote, and the Naylor 
Printing Co. published, a book entitled: "Blmd Flight in Theoiy 
and Practice." This book gave an excellent analysis of the problems 
inherent in instrument flying and their solution. It was for many 
years the standard reference book on instrument flying. 

DANIEL GUGGENHEIM FUND FOR THE PROMOTION OF AERONAUTICS 

Daniel Guggenheim was one of the great industrialists, philan- 
thropists, and citizens of the 20th century. He was interested in 
everything that could lead to a fuller life and a better world. One of 
his many great contributions was the Daniel Guggenheim Fund for 



342 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

the Promotion of Aeronautics. It was established for the purpose of 
promoting the advance of the art, science, and business of aviation. 
It proved to be a very effective medium in the accomplisliment of that 
purpose. 

The fund was established in January 1926 with a grant of $2,500,- 
000 ; although $500,000 had been given the previous year to New York 
University for the purpose of starting aeronautical education. The 
fund, in cooperation with the Government, was to be administered by 
a board of trustees composed of men of "eminence and competence." 
Harry Guggenheim, gifted son of Daniel and a World War I naval 
aviator, was chosen president of the fund. In the initial stages of 
its organization. Rear Adm. H. I. Cone, an outstanding naval officer, 
was vice president; he was succeeded by Capt. — later Vice Adm. — 
Emory S. Land of the Construction Corps of the U.S. Navy, who 
served until the fund's work was completed. The strength of char- 
acter, sound judgment, organizational ability, understanding, and 
capacity for cooperation of Harry Guggenheim and Capt. "Jerry" 
Land were, in large part, the cement which held the fund together, 
enabled it to function efficiently, and made possible its considerable 
contributions. 

The general purposes of the fund were defined as follows : 

1. To promote aeronautical education both in institutions of learn- 
ing and among the general public. 

2. To assist in the extension of fundamental aeronautical science. 

i3. To assist in the development of commercial aircraft and aircraft 
equipment. 

4. To further the application of aircraft to business, industry, and 
other economic and social activities of the Nation. 

The basic concept of the fund was "to maintain a simple, inex- 
pensive directing organization depending on established outside 
agencies, whenever possible, to carry out the aims of the fund." It 
was to be a primer — a sparkplug — to stimulate interest and promote 
action. 

From the first it was understood that flight safety and reliability 
were important considerations and that one phase of the fund's work 
might certainly be to study means of assuring safe and reliable flight 
despite weather conditions. With this in mind, a special committee 
of experts was organized to define the problem and a directive was 
prepared which authorized study regarding — 

1. The dissipation of fog. 

2. The development of means whereby flying fields may be located 
from the air regardless of fog. 

3. The development of instruments to show accurately the height of 
airplanes above the ground, to replace barometric instruments now in 
general use showing height above sea level. 



Smithsonian Report. 1961.— Doolittle 



Plate 1 




Smithsonian Report. 1961. — Doolittle 




EARLY INSTRUMENT FLYING — DOOLITTLE 343 

4. Improvement and perfection of instruments allowing airplanes 
to fly properly in fog. 

5. Penetration of fog by light rays. 

To assist in carrying out pertinent parts of this directive the di- 
rectors of the fund decided in 1928 to establish a Full Flight Labora- 
tory at Mitchel Field, Long Island, N.Y., with all necessary facilities 
and equipment. In August 1928 I was borrowed from the Army Air 
Corps to head this laboratory. Prof. William G. Brown of the Aero- 
nautics Department of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology 
joined us as technical assistant in Februaiy 1929. Professor Brown 
worked with the fund's Full Flight Laboratory from then until it was 
dissolved at the end of 1929. His technical knowledge and unbounded 
enthusiasm provided a constant help and inspiration. 

This was a most interesting period in my life. The good book says, 
"No man can serve two masters for ... he will hold to one and despise 
the other." I had three: An Army boss, Lt. Col. — later Maj. Gen. — 
Conger Pratt, commanding officer of Mitchel Field where I was sta- 
tioned ; Capt. — ^later Vice Adm. — Land, of the Navy ; and Mr. Gug- 
genheim, a civilian. They were all such fine, understanding, and 
cooperative people that my existence, instead of being complex, was 
uncomplicated and extremely pleasant. 

DEVELOPMENT OF BLIND-FLYING INSTRUMENTATION 

Our first activity in the Full Flight Laboratory was to study and 
endeavor to analyze the work previously done on blind landing in fog. 

In England tethered balloons had been lined up with the landing 
field and used with some success in still air and when the fog was not 
thick. This concept was abandoned at once as not satisfactory, for 
experience had indicated that the fog layer might be very thick and 
that still air could not be depended upon at all times when visibility 
was restricted — for example, in a blizzard. 

In both England and France the lead-in-cable idea was tried out. 
In this system an electrified cable circled the field and led in to a land- 
ing. It required very sensitive sensing equipment in the airplane, and 
it was necessary to make a precision turn into the field at low altitude. 
This turn presented considerable difficulty. Lt. LeRoy Wolf of the 
Army Air Corps also experimented with the electrified cable concept 
at Wright Field. The U.S. Navy had some success with an electro- 
magnetic cable guide at Lakehurst Naval Air Station. 

The low-frequency radio range had been developed by the Bureau 
of Standards and the Army, and was in limited use for aerial navi- 
gation. An adaptation of this radio range in the form of a radio hom- 
ing beacon seemed to offer the greatest promise for our use. It could 
also be readily tied in with the radio receiver and other conventional 
airborne equipment. 

625825 — 62 23 



344 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

Actual blind landings had been attempted with dragging weights 
and with long tail skids. These either gave an indication upon touch- 
ing the ground or were rigged to actuate the aircraft control. Addi- 
tional background information was available, but the material outlined 
above was fairly representative. 

The first important expenditure made by the Full Flight Labora- 
tory was for two modern airplanes. One, a Consolidated NY-2 mili- 
tary training plane mounting a J-5 engine, was to be used in the 
instrument-landing experiments and to test instruments, equipment, 
or devices that might be helpful in overcoming fog flying problems. 
It had the large wings used by the Navy for pontoon seaplane training, 
but mounted, in place of the pontoons, a specially reinforced landing 
gear with long oleo action. As a training plane it had a very high 
factor of safety, was extremely rugged, and was inherently stable 
about all three axes. Special flying and landing wires permitted the 
rigging in of additional dihedral. The acceptance test flight on this 
airplane was made on November 3, 1928, at the factory near Buffalo, 
and the airplane was flown to Mitchel Field the next day. It was 
flown considerably in November and December and then delivered to 
the Radio Frequency Laboratories in Boonton, N.J., to have voice 
radio installed. It was at Boonton for 4 weeks this first time and 
frequently thereafter. 

The second airplane was a Navy-type Vought Corsair 02U-1 mount- 
ing a Pratt & Whitney Wasp engine. It was to be used for cross- 
country practice flying and was an excellent airplane for the purpose. 
It was a fast, good-flying airplane, but not as rugged and stable as 
the NY-2. The 02U-1 was delivered to the fund on November 21, 
1928, and the first cross-country flight — to Boston, with Harry 
Guggenheim as passenger — was made on the same day. 

The Army Air Corps made a hangar available at Mitchel Field 
for the use of the Full Flight Laboratory. It was initially provided 
for the safe airplane competition, another important contribution 
to the fund. The Army also provided the full-time services of an 
excellent mechanic to maintain the laboratory's aircraft. This was 
Cpl. — later Sgt. — Jack Dalton. The continued excellent mechanical 
condition of the two aircraft thereafter was largely the result of his 
competence and devotion. 

Lt. — later Brig. Gen. — B. S. Kelsey was made available by the 
Army Air Corps as flight assistant and safety pilot. When flights 
were made under the hood it was necessary, in the interest of safety, 
to have another pilot in the airplane to look out for other aircraft 
and also to make sure that the pilot under the hood did not get into 
difficulty because of possible instrument or equipment failure. 
Lieutenant Kelsey, from the start, was a full-fledged member of the 



EARLY INSTRUMENT FLYING DOOLITTLE 345 

team and did much of the experimental work. His piloting help, 
criticism of tests carried out, sound technical counsel, and ever- 
pleasant personality contributed greatly to the results achieved. 

As the preliminary practice flights progressed, it soon became ap- 
parent that even with the very stable and sturdy NY-2, the available 
instruments were not adequate. For determining heading when 
maneuvering and when landing, the compass, owing to the northerly 
turning error, was entirely unsatisfactory, and the bank-and-turn 
indicator, though excellent for its purpose, was more a qualitative than 
a quantitative measuring instrument. Also, at the moment of touch- 
down in a blind landing, it was very desirable that the wings be 
level with the ground. This was not easy to assure, particularly 
when the wind was gusty. An accurate, reliable, and easy-to-read 
instrument showing exact direction of heading and precise attitude 
of the aircraft was required, particularly for the initial and final 
stages of blind landings. Two German artificial-horizon instruments, 
the Anschutz and the Gyrorector, were studied but were not deemed 
entirely satisfactory. 

I sketched a rough picture of the dial for an instrument which I 
thought would do the job and showed it to Elmer Sperry, Sr., a great 
engineer and inventor who had established and headed the Sperry 
Gyroscope Co. and who was very much interested in aviation. It was, 
in substance, the face of a directional gyro superimposed on an arti- 
ficial horizon. He advised that a single gyroscopic instrument could 
be designed to meet the requirements, but recommended, for simplicity 
of construction, two separate instruments. I agreed, and he then 
assigned his very ingenious son, Elmer, Jr., to work with us and to 
be responsible for the design and fabrication of the two instruments. 
We could not have had a better colleague. Elmer, also, soon became 
a member of the team and spent as much time at the hangar and at 
the evening "discussion" sessions in our quarters on Mitchel Field 
as the rest of us. These evening sessions were frequent and long. 
The wives joined their husbands and helped in the work. Out of this, 
as you know, came the Sperry Artificial Horizon and the Sperry 
Directional Gyroscope which still, with their descendants, are on the 
instrument panel of every airliner and military airplane today. 

As time passed, literally hundreds of blind and simulated blind 
landings were made. To make a landing, the airplane was put in a 
glide at 60 m.p.h., with some power on, and flown directly into the 
ground. Although this was about 15 m.p.h. above stalling speed, 
the landing gear absorbed the shock of landing and if the angle of 
glide was just right the airplane did not even bounce. Actually, 
after a while, it was possible to make consistently perfect landings 
by this method. To assure just the right amount of power in the 
glide, a mark was made at the proper place on the throttle quadrant. 



346 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

Excellent cooperation was obtained from every organization and 
individual with whom we worked. Among them were the Pioneer 
Instrmnent Co., the Radio Corp. of America, and the Bell Telephone 
Laboratories, which installed the modern radio transmitter and pro- 
vided miniature earphones with molded plugs. Along with the other 
BTL personnel, Capt. Luff Meridith and Capt. Ray Books, recently 
retired from the Army Air Corps, were very helpful. At the Aircraft 
Radio Corp. of Radio Frequency Laboratories, which installed the 
excellent radio receiver. Dr. L. M. PIull, the president; Drs. A. W. 
Parkes, F. H, Drake, and all members of the staff were most coopera- 
tive. Assistance was also rendered by the Kollsman Instrmnent Co., 
the Sperry Gyroscope Co., and many other industrial concerns, scien- 
tists, engineers, and inventors. Very valuable support was received 
from the Bureau of Standards, whose experts designed and installed 
most of the ground and airborne radio navigation equipment. Dr. 
Harry Diamond, of the Bureau, and his associates spent much time 
with us and could not have been more cooperative. 

"Wliile aural signals were satisfactory for rough aerial navigation, 
it soon became apparent that a visual indicator would be much better 
for the precise directional control required in blind landings. To 
meet this requirement, the Bureau of Standards, working with the 
Airways and Radio Division of the Department of Commerce, de- 
signed a 2-kw. semiportable two-leg range, which was used as a hom- 
ing beacon, and a fan-type marker beacon. The homing range was 
installed on the west side of Mitchel Field. The marker beacon sat 
on the leg of the homing range and was located on the east side of 
the field. 

The indicator for the homing range, carried in the airplane, was a 
pair of juxtaposed vibrating reeds. If the plane was to the right of 
the course, the right reed vibrated through the greater amplitude; 
if to the left of the course, the left reed vibrated more vigorously. 
If the plane was on course, both reeds vibrated through the same arc. 
As the station was approached, if the amplitude of vibration became 
too great, it could be reduced through use of a rheostat. 

As the fan-type marker beacon was approached, a single reed started 
to vibrate. It reached maximum amplitude, then quickly dropped to 
zero when the airplane was directly overhead, rapidly built up to 
maximum again, and then tapered down. The homing-range indi- 
cator also had a distinct null when the airplane Avas directly over the 
range station. 

As the tests progressed, the instrumentation and equipment were 
constantly improved until toward the end of 1929, during the final 
stages of the flight tests, the following instruments and equipment 
were carried : 



EARLY INSTRUMENT FLYING DOOLITTLE 347 

1. Normal engine instruments. 

2. Magnetic compass. 

3. Earth inductor compass. 

4. Bank-and-turn indicator. 

5. Directional gyro. 

6. Artificial horizon. 

7. Airspeed indicator. 

8. Altimeter. 

9. Rate-of-climb indicator. 

10. Outside air thermometer. 

11. Vibrating reed homing range indicator. 

12. Vibrating reed marker beacon indicator. 

Considerable thought was given to the location or arrangement of 
each instrument in order to facilitate reading and reduce pilot fatigue. 
Fatigue led to errors, and piloting errors could not be tolerated in 
instrument landings. The airplane, in addition to its flight instru- 
ments, carried a KFL radio receiver, a BTL radio transmitter, two 
6-inch Pyle National landing lights, and a parachute flare. Small 
instruments were preferred over the more conventional larger ones 
because, even though they were somewhat harder to read individually, 
the small mstruments permitted more compact and logical arrange- 
ment and were easier to read and interpret en masse. It was soon 
determined that small instruments could be made easier to read by 
use of broader hands with white or radium paint applied to the outer 
half of their length. It was fomid that the instruments could be read 
more quickly, and over a long period with less fatigue, if the arrange- 
ment of the instruments and the position and direction of motion of 
the indicating hands was "natural." Also any abnormality or im- 
proper indication should be detectable automatically by a quick glance 
at the instrument panel. This did not "solve" instrument flight but 
did simplify it. 

A larger than customary Leece-Neville generator was installed on 
the engine to assure an adequate and continuous electrical supply. 
The mast-type receiving antenna, which was employed to minimize 
directional effect, required considerable development before a tendency 
to vibrate under certain flight conditions could be corrected. A trail- 
ing wire antenna was used for transmission in normal flight. This 
was reeled in and a fixed wire antenna used for transmitting when 
landmg. 

The specialized ground equipment consisted of a radio receiver 
and transmitter which provided voice communication with the air- 
craft and a Kollsman sensitive altimeter with which the altimeter in 
the airplane was synchronized by radio. In addition, there was the 
visual homing range and the visual fan-type marker beacon previously 
mentioned, and, of course, there was available the standard Mitchel 



348 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

Field Army-type aural beacon to lead an aircraft to the general 
vicinity of the airfield. 

Two problems that were very much on the minds of the fund di- 
rectors were collision of aircraft in the air and the formation of ice 
on the wings, structure, and propeller, and in the carburetor of aircraft 
when atmospheric conditions were conducive to icing. Dr. W. C. 
Greer and Dr. Merrit Scott at Cornell University carried out work, 
under fund sponsorship, on the underlying causes of ice formation 
on aircraft. The fund also sponsored the work done by John P. Kil- 
gore of New Haven, Conn., on an electrically heated wing blanket 
for deicing. The Full Flight Laboratory did no development work 
on deicing equipment, but many test flights were made under icing 
conditions to determine effects and limitations. 

BAD-WEATHER FLIGHTS DEMONSTRATED NEED FOR BLIND-LANDING 
EQUIPMENT AND RADIO COMMUNICATION 

The NY-2 was frequently out of commission during the installation 
of new instruments or equipment. These were convenient periods for 
cross-country flying practice under unfavorable weather conditions 
in the 02U-1. This airplane had all necessary flight instruments but 
no blind-landing equipment. 

An extreme example of a cross-country bad-weather flight took 
place on March 15, 1929. I took off from Buffalo in the 02U-1 headed 
for Mitchel Field. It was night, and the weather was fair and improv- 
ing at Buffalo, but marginal to the south and east. This was to be a 
difficult flight but possible, and just the sort of thing required to estab- 
lish flight "limitations." In a pinch I could return to Buffalo at any 
time up to the point where nearly half of the gasoline supply was 
used up. 

I well realized that the pilot who flew within his limitations would 
probably live to a ripe old age, whereas the pilot who flew beyond 
them would not. I also knew that different pilots had different 
limitations. This was pointed up in the mid-1920's when I was a 
test pilot at old McCook Field. At that time there were few facilities 
and little ground equipment to do environmental testing on new air- 
borne devices. It was therefore necessary to test them out in flight, 
and the test pilots spent many hours flying around the airfield to see 
how a new device held up under the accelerations, vibrations, and 
changes in temperature and pressure experienced in flight. Lt. Alex 
Pearson always spent these hours practicing precision flying ; for in- 
stance, holding constant speed and altitude. As a result he became 
extremely proficient and could fly a better speed course or do a 
smoother saw-tooth climb than any of the rest of us. 



EARLY INSTRUMENT FLYING DOOLITTLE 349 

I spent the hours flying low in the vicinity of McCook Field and on 
the main air routes in and out, memorizing the terrain. I knew every 
high building, tree, silo, windmill, radio tower, and high-tension line 
in the area. I could therefore fly in — or under — adverse weather 
safely when other equally experienced pilots did not fly. This was 
not because I was a better or more daring pilot than my colleagues; 
constant practice had simply extended my limitations. The trick was 
to learn your limitations, gradually expand them, but never go be- 
yond them. I thought I was being smart, but the conmianding officer, 
learning that I frequently flew in that area when other pilots did not, 
thought differently. Unaware of my training plan, he removed me 
from the job of chief pilot in the flying section, advising me that I 
did not have judgment enough to be a pilot, and assigned me to the 
airplane section as an aeronautical engineer. 

All these things went through my mind as the weather deteriorated. 
I planned to fly contact all the way and therefore, in order to avoid 
the mountains, took the route Buffalo, Rochester, Syracuse, Utica, 
Schenectady, Albany, and then down the Hudson River. There was 
no particular problem getting to Albany, but from there on the ceiling 
and visibility became marginal. Soon I had passed the "point of no re- 
turn" and no longer had gasoline enough to go back to Buffalo. 

At one place I found it expedient to slow down and hover with 
the left wing of the airplane over a brightly lighted southbound 
passenger train traveling along the east side of the Hudson River. 
Presently it went through a cut, making its pursuit too hazardous, 
so I left the train and followed the riverbank. I considered crossing 
the river and landing on the parade ground at West Point, but aban- 
doned this idea as the weather remained flyable — barely. Upon reach- 
ing the lights and heat of New York City, and finding the ceiling and 
visibility slightly improved, I flew south to the Battery hoping 
to be able to get to Mitchel Field from there, but the East River and 
the area to the south were "socked in" and I could not go on. I next 
tried to get to Governor's Island and land on the drill ground, but 
it was fog shrouded, as was also the Yonkers Golf Course which I 
next hoped to use for an emergency landing after having turned north 
back up the Hudson. I then returned to the Battery with the inten- 
tion of crash landing in Battery Park, but a chap ran out into the 
middle of the park and waved me off. He apparently thought I mis- 
took it for a flying field. 

It is interesting to note that the George Washington Bridge across 
the Hudson at I79th Street was under construction at this time. There 
were as yet no suspension cables or other horizontal structure, and only 
the great vertical piers on each side of the river had been completed. 
I had passed the east pier three times without seeing it. 



350 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

About this time it appeared that a crash landing in the river might 
be necessary, so I removed my parachute in order to be able to swim 
ashore. The water, on closer inspection, looked uninviting, and I 
decided on a final try — this time for Newark Airport — and headed 
across the Hudson, As soon as the river was crossed and the lights 
south of Jersey City appeared, it became obvious that this last chance 
was impractical. Thereupon I climbed up through the fog, which 
was only about a thousand feet thick with crystal-clear skies above, 
intending to fly west until past the thickly populated part of the 
metropolitan area and then jump. The gasoline gage had been flutter- 
ing on zero for some time. I noted about this time that my parachute 
harness was off and promptly put it on. 

About over Kenilworth, beyond Elizabeth, I saw a revolving beacon 
through a hole in the fog and a flat-looking area adjacent to it with no 
lights. Hoping it might be an emergency field or at least an open area, 
although realizing that it might be a woods or a lake, I turned the 
landing lights on and dove through the hole and scouted the area. The 
bottom of the fog was still very low, and I tore the left lower wing 
badly on a treetop. The airplane still flew, although almost comj^letely 
out of gasoline, so I returned to the most likely spot and crashlanded, 
taking the impact by wrapping the left wing around a tree trunk near 
the ground. The 02U-1 was completely washed out — quite beyond 
repair — but I was not even scratched or bruised. 

The moral of the story is that had I been flying the NY-2 mounting 
blmd-landing equipment and with the Full Flight Laboratory radio 
station alerted at Mitchel, this would have been a routine cross-coun- 
try flight with "no sweat." 

The flight pointed up the importance of constant radio communica- 
tion between the aircraft and the ground, and the need for frequent 
and accurate weather reports obtainable by radio during flight in 
order to assure safe continuation or to indicate suitable alternate 
destinations. It also indicated the desirability of a special light to 
mark emergency fields for night landings. Later green lights were 
used. 

In general, the weather a pilot could fly in safely was determined by 
airplane characteristics, ground facilities and procedures, ground and 
airborne equipment and instrumentation, the pilot's general skill and 
his specialized knowledge of the local aids to air navigation, the ter- 
rain, and the weather conditions to be expected in the area. 

DEVELOPMENT OF ALTITUDE-MEASURING INSTRUMENTS 

An important requirement in instrument landing was to have a 
precise measure of altitude when approaching the ground for a land- 
ing. The conventional barometric altimeters of the day measured, at 



EARLY INSTRUMENT FLYn^G DOOLITTLE 351 

best, to the nearest 50 or 100 feet. It would be of great value to have 
an altimeter that, near the ground, would measure to 10 or even 5 feet. 
The Kollsman Instrument Co. developed such an instrument, and I 
was very pleased, on August 30, 1929, in the second 02U — a more 
modem version — to take Paul Kollsman and his new instrument up 
on its first test flight. Mr. Kollsman held the sensitive altimeter in 
his lap during the flight and it performed perfectly. Here was another 
important addition to flight instrimientation. We promptly obtained 
one and installed it in the N Y-2. 

This instrument had two hands and a multiplication factor of 20 
between them. Actually the fast-moving hand made one complete 
revolution for each 1,000 feet change in altitude, which meant a move- 
ment of about %2 inch for a change of 20 feet in altitude. This was 
more than one order of magnitude more accurate than earlier altim- 
eters. Although the Kollsman altimeter provided a very consider- 
able advance in instrumentation, it still measured the barometric 
altitude or height above sea level. An instrument which would meas- 
ure the height above the gromid regardless of changes in barometric 
pressure would be of great value. 

With this idea in mind, several companies were encouraged to work 
on a sonic altimeter. One built by Sperry was tested out in the 
NY-2. A note on a frequency of about 950 cycles was directed at 
the ground from a megaphone on the bottom of the airplane and 
picked up by a detector on the airplane after having been reflected 
back from the gromid. The elapsed time interval was measured, as 
in a marine "fathometer," and the altitude above the ground thus 
determined. The concept was theoretically sound, but in its initial 
form the equipment caused considerable drag and was unduly large, 
heavy, difficult to install, and complicated. It also appeared that a 
radio altimeter measuring the phase difference of radio waves re- 
flected back from the ground offered more promise. Several radio 
altimeters were under development — with fund encouragement — and 
the sonic altimeter experiments were therefore abandoned. 

FOG-DISPERSAL EXPERIMENTS 

Although major emphasis was given in the Full Flight Laboratory 
to flight tests designed to permit flying safely and reliably despite fog, 
the fund and the laboratory were also interested in experiments on the 
penetration of fog by light rays and on the dispersal of fog. 

Studies on fog penetration were made by Dr. Anderson of the Uni- 
versity of Washington and Dr. Barnes of Bryn Mawr College under 
fund sponsorship, and by Dr. Julius A. Stratton of the Massachusetts 
Institute of Tecluiology for Col. E. H. L. Green. The visual, infra- 
red, and ultraviolet portions of the spectrum were carefully explored. 



352 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

It was concluded that though there was some difference in penetra- 
tion due to wavelength, there was little likelihood of finding any visual 
light that would penetrate thick, dense fog. Dr. Stratton's further 
investigations gave some promise that at very short wavelengths — 
below 1 centimeter — there was a possibility that fog might be pene- 
trated by dispersal. In addition to the scientific studies carried out, 
various inventors presented ideas for fog penetration, all of which 
received careful consideration. 

Four basic methods of fog dispersal were originally considered : 

1. Dispersal by mechanical means. — Here the concept was to have a 
large propeller or series of propellers "churn up" the fog. 

2. Dispersal hy chemical means. — Experiments carried out by 
Henry G. Houghton, Jr., of MIT, using hygroscopic materials, showed 
some promise both in the laboratory and in full-scale tests that were 
conducted on the estate of Colonel Green in South Dartmouth, Mass. 

3. Dispersal hy electrical means. — From the early 1920's Dr. War- 
ren of Hartford, in collaboration with the Army Air Service, had 
been experimenting with cloud and fog dispersal by means of electri- 
fied sand particles dropped from an aircraft. He was occasionally 
successful in dispersing small clouds. Mr. Flowers experimented 
with fog dispersal through the use of electrified water particles and 
achieved some interesting results. 

4. Dispersal hy heat. — Experimentation on, and the actual accom- 
plishment of, fog dispersal by heat has been carried on until fairly 
recent times. 

FIDO (Fog, Intense Dispersal Of) was effectively used in World 
War II on 3 of the long emergency fields and 10 main landing fields 
in England. It consisted of powerful heat sources at intervals along 
the runways which heated the air to a temperature above the dew- 
point, thereby dispersing the nearby fog. Approximately 2,500 
bombers and fighters — mostly RAF but including some USAF — re- 
turning from missions and finding their home base (and much of 
England) covered in pea-soup fog were directed to the cleared "tun- 
nels in the fog" over these FIDO fields and landed safely. 

Perhaps I should mention here that the Eighth Air Force Bomber 
units in England were being trained and equipped to operate "blind" — 
without FIDO — and at the end of the war two groups could take off 
and land regardless of fog. Shortly the entire force would have been 
so trained. 

In the late 1940's successful FIDO experiments were carried out 
at the Naval Air Base at Areata on the coast of northern California. 
Areata was chosen because it was in one of the foggiest areas on the 
entire Pacific coast. Southwest Airways successfully used the Navy 
fog-dispersal system from November 1947 until November 1949. 



EARLY INSTRUMENT FLYING — DOOLITTLE 353 

In 1953, a FIDO installation was made at the Los Angeles Inter- 
national Airport at a cost of $1,325,000 for installation, modification, 
and test. While the installation appeared to handle moderate fogs 
fairly well, it did not satisfactorily disperse dense fogs where the 
visibility was one-eighth mile or less. The dispersal difficulties 
seemed to arise from the great amount of heat required, the airport 
configuration, and the movement and intrusion of the fog. Further 
operational problems resulted from infrequent use of equipment and 
the high cost of installation, maintenance, and operation. It was 
also anticipated that there would be difficulty experienced in moving 
passengers to and from the airport and in moving aircraft to and 
from the cleared runway when the fog was really dense. The follow- 
ing year the FIDO program was abandoned at Los Angeles. 

It appears that FIDO is a successful way of coping with intense 
fog only when the air is comparatively still. When there is any con- 
siderable movement of the air and fog — particularly if the movement 
has a component across the runway — the cleared airmass moves on 
and new fog comes in faster than it can be dispersed. Difficulties 
have also been experienced in an absolutely dead calm owing to 
conduction, particularly at runway intersections and elsewhere where 
there were no burners. 

The Full Flight Laboratory's first experience with FIDO occurred 
in 1929. Mr. Reader, of Cleveland, operated a gravel pit and utilized 
a large blowtorch type of heater to dry the gravel and sand. He 
observed that if there was an intense fog when he turned the heater 
on, the fog in the immediate area dispersed. Learning of the Gug- 
genheim fog-flying experiments, he wrote giving information of his 
experience and advising that he was interested in helping to solve 
the fog problem. He was invited to bring one of his heaters to 
Mitchel Field, where it was installed just east of the last hangar. 

For several months thereafter we waited in vain for a dense fog. 
Finally, on September 24, 1929, it came. Someone, I think it was 
Jack Dalton, awakened just before daylight and noted that there was 
a zero-zero fog covering the area. Our gang was quickly called to- 
gether. We immediately notified Mr. Reader, who arrived shortly 
thereafter. Mr. Guggenheim was also notified, but he had to come 
from Port Washington and didn't arrive until later. The equipment 
was fired up, but the fog did not disperse except in the immediate 
vicinity of the blowtorch. The experiment was a disappointing 
failure. At the time we considered the concept impractical, and the 
equipment was removed. 

In retrospect, it appears that the trouble was probably fog move- 
ment or possibly the absence of a mineral mass to store and reflect 
the heat. Also, for satisfactory fog dispersal over a considerable area, 



354 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

about two orders of magnitude more heat energy would seem to be 
required. 

FIRST FLIGHT FROM TAKEOFF TO LANDING BY INSTRUMENTS ALONE 

Though we were all disappointed, we were there, and the fog was 
there, so I decided to make a real fog flight. The NY-2 was pushed 
out of the hangar and warmed up. The ground radios were manned, 
and the radio beacons were turned on. I taxied out to the middle of 
the field and took off. Coming through the fog at about 500 feet and 
making a wide swing, I came around into landing position. By the 
time I landed 10 minutes after takeoff, the fog had started to lift. 

About this time Mr. Guggenheim, along with several other people, 
arrived, and we decided to do an "official," under-the-hood flight. 
I had just made a real flight in the fog and wanted to go alone, but 
Mr. Guggenheim insisted that Ben Kelsey be taken along as safety 
pilot. The fog had lifted considerably by this time, and he was 
afraid there might be other aircraft in the vicinity. 

We both got into the airplane, and the hood over my cockpit was 
closed. The engine was again warmed up and I taxied the airplane 
out and turned into the takeoff direction on the radio beam. We took 
off and flew west in a gradual climb. At about 1,000 feet the airplane 
was leveled off and a 180° turn was made to the left. This course 
was flown several miles and another 180° turn to the left was made. 
The airplane was lined up on the left of the radio range located on 
the west side of Mitchel Field, and a gradual descent started. I 
leveled off at 200 feet above the ground and flew at this altitude 
until the fan beacon on the east side of the airfield was passed. From 
this point the airplane was flown into the ground, using the instru- 
ment landing procedure previously developed. Actually, despite 
previous practice, the final approach and landing were sloppy. This 
entire flight was made under the hood in a completely covered cockpit 
which had been carefully sealed to keep out all light. The flight, 
from takeoff to landing, lasted 15 minutes. It was the first time an 
airplane had been taken off, flown over a set course, and landed by 
instruments alone. This was just 10 months and 3 weeks after the 
first test flight of the NY-2. 

INDICATIONS FROM EARLY TESTING OF INSTRUMENTS 

The tests carried out thus far indicated, among other things, that 
before all-weather flying would be practical, there was a need for — 

1. Better coordination between the long-range aural beam and the 
short-range visual landing beam. 

2. Accurate measurement of distance along the landing beam. 



EARLY INSTRUMENT FLYING — DOOLITTLE 355 

3. A slant glide beam at right angle to the vertical landing beam 
which might be curved to become tangent to the earth rather than 
intersect it in a straight line. 

4. The possibility of automatic volume control on the receiving 
radio. 

5. A good gyro pilot to assist the pilot in flying the aircraft. This 
could be, and later was, tied in with the instrument landing systems. 

6. Much more work on ignition shielding, not only to reduce noise 
but to permit flight in heavy rain. 

At the end of 1929 the fund, feeling that it had made the necessary 
initial contribution and believing that further development could 
better be carried out by other organizations, was disbanded. The 
Full Flight Laboratory went out of existence with the fund, and the 
NY-2 was turned over to the U.S. Army Air Corps and moved to 
Wright Field, where instrument-landing experimentation and devel- 
opment were continued under the direction of 1st Lt. — Later Maj. 
Gen. — Albert Hegenberger. 

The Bureau of Standards and the Bureau of Air Commerce of the 
Department of Commerce also continued their work, and on March 20, 
1933, James L. Kinney, with William La Violette as mechanic and 
Harry Diamond as passenger, flew a Bellanca airplane by instruments 
from College Park, Md., to Newark Airport, a distance of about 200 
miles. He landed blind, using the recently developed bent landing 
beam. The weather was actually below minimum. 

The Collier Trophy is awarded each year to an individual or group 
"for the greatest achievement in aviation in America, with respect 
to improving the performance, efficiency, or safety of aircraft, the 
value of which has been thoroughly demonstrated by actual use during 
the preceding year." In 1934 the Collier Trophy was awarded to 
Capt. Albert Hegenberger, U.S. Army Air Corps, for the develop- 
ment and demonstration of a successful blind-landing system. On 
May 9, 1932, Captain Hegenberger made the first solo blind flight, 
depending solely upon instruments from takeoff to landing. Over a 
period of years he and his colleagues had greatly improved the equip- 
ment previously used and developed additional equipment. He de- 
vised a blind-landmg procedui'e which became standard military 
practice. This system was put into actual use in 1934. 

Flying by instruments had outgrown the early experimental phase. 
It was a practical reality, and aviation had entered a new era. 



Three Famous Early Aero Engines 



By Robert B. Meyer, Jr. 
National Air Museum, Smithsonian Institution 



[With 9 plates] 



In 1853 Sir George Cayley of England created the first man-carry- 
ing glider. This was an important milestone in the history of heavier- 
than-air craft, but without power such aircraft could be used only 
for sport. It was not until the advent of the successful application 
of power to heavier-than-air craft by the Wright brothers 50 years 
later that flying could become practical. 

During the 50-year period following 1903, improved engines made 
possible increasingly successful flights. Throughout the first decade 
the typical airplane was the powered glider. Having a large wing area 
and a small amount of power for their weight, these airplanes were 
very sensitive to wind variations, and therefore difficult to fly except 
in calm air. For the same reasons such airplanes were slower than 
the sports cars of their day. True powered airplanes were not built 
until World War I. Some of these had sufficient power to "hang on 
their propellers" briefly during certain combat maneuvers. Between 
World Wars I and II the helicopter advanced toward a practical stage. 
For the first time controlled vertical lift was obtained by heavier-than- 
nir craft. This too would not have been possible without improved 
engines having a high horsepower/weight ratio. Shortly after World 
War II jet engines began to develop more thrust than the weight of 
the airframe in which they were installed. Such aircraft so powered 
are able to climb vertically. Thus in a span of 50 years heavier-than- 
air craft advanced from gliders deriving all their lift from wings to 
airplanes capable of deriving all their lift from engines. 

It is the engine which is the key to successful, practical flight: 
hence the significance of this brief study of three famous aeronautical 
engines which first powered aircraft in 1903. Each of these engines 
is on display in the National Air Museum of the Smithsonian Insti- 
tution. Although they are similar in that each is of the internal- 
combustion, four-stroke-cycle, gasoline-burning type, and each is 
equipped with automatic inlet valves, they differ from one another 
in most other respects. 

357 



358 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

Each engine will be considered separately from the standpoints of 
history, specifications, capabilities, and survival value. Two of them 
were used in heavier-than-air craft, and one powered a lighter-than- 
air craft. All three were ancestors of distinct types of heavier-than- 
air craft powerplants. 

THE CLEMENT ENGINE 

The first of these engines to power an aircraft was the Brazilian 
Santos Dumont's French built and designed Clement motor (made by 
Adolphe Clement, who later founded the famous Clement-Bayard 
firm) which propelled his airship No. 9 during the summer of 1903. 
To quote from his book, "My Air-ships" : 

I determined to build a small airship runabout for my pleasure and conven- 
ience only. ... So I built my number 9, the smallest of possible dirigibles, yet 
very practical indeed. As originally constructed, its balloon capacity was but 
7,770 cubic feet, permitting me to take up less than 66 pounds of ballast; and 
thus I navigated it for weeks, without inconvenience. Even when I enlarged 
its balloon to 9,218 cubic feet, the balloon of my number 6, in which I won 
the Deutsch Prize, would have made almost three of it, while that of my 
Omnibus is fully eight times its size. As I have already stated, its 3 horse- 
power Clement motor weighs but 261/^ pounds. With such a motor one cannot 
expect great speed ; nevertheless, this handy little runabout takes me over the 
Bois [Paris] at between 12 and 15 miles per hour, and this notwithstanding its 
egg-shaped form, which would seemingly be little calculated for cutting the air. 

Further information is given in an article which appeared in the 
Scientific American for July 11, 1903 : 

The new Clement gasoline motor used on the number 9 has proved especially 
satisfactory. The little motor with its cylinders joined in the form of a V to 
a round aluminum crank box, seems like a toy and weighs but 26^^ pounds, 
although it will develop 3 horse power. The weight per horse power (8.8 
pounds), the smallest that has yet been reached, is the result of long experience 
in racing cars, where the weight must be cut down to a minimum. Current 
for the spark is supplied by a battery and induction coil of the motor-bicycle 
pattern. The motor is connected through a light friction clutch to the long 
shaft which passes back of the propeller. A bicycle wheel with a heavy rim 
(without the tire) forms the flywheel and lies next to the motor. ... An aii'- 
bag of 60 cubic yards lies along the inside of the balloon at the bottom, forming 
a pocket which can be filled out with air by a fan [blower] mounted on the motor 
shaft. The balloon is [therefore] always kept in shape as the gas escapes. 

SPECIFICATIONS 

Cylinders 2 arranged in the form of a V. 

Cooling Air. 

Carburetion Automobile-type carburetor. 

Ignition Battery, induction coil, spark plug (high-tension). 

Horsepower 3. 

Bore and stroke 2^4 x 2% in. 

Displacement 21.8 cu. in. 

Dimensions 17 in. high x 9^2 in. wide x 9 in. long. 

Weight 261/^ lb. 

Weight/hp. ratio 8.8 lb. per hp. 

Country of manufacture France. 



Smithsonian Report, 1961. — Meyer 



PTTVTf 



1 n : 





Plate 1 



Wt^ 




12^^^^^^^'%, '''i>-^ 



Clement engine. Left side view as presently shown in the Air and Space Building, 
Smithsonian Institution. Visible are the left cylinder and its valve mechanism, spark- 
timing system, flywheel, clutch, and blower. 



Smithsonian Report, 1 96 1. — Meyer 



Plate 2 




Clement engine. Right side view as presently exhibited. Visible are the right cylinder 
and its valve mechanism, spark-timing system, carburetor, clutch, and flywheel. 



Smithsonian Report. 1961. — Meyer 



PLATE 3 




Clement engine. Rear view, as presently exhibited. Shown are the cylinders, valve 
mechanisms, flywheel, clutch, and blower. 



Smithsonian Report. 1961. — Meyer 




Manly-Balzer engine. Left side view showing cylinders, exhaust ports, push rods, cooling 
water manifold, fuel/air intake manifold, and flywheels. 



Smithsonian Report, 1961. — Meyer 



Plate 5 




Manly-Balzer engine. Right suic \ k-w shriwing cylinders. tl_\ \\ lu-t_-l 

mechanism. 



d ignition-timing 



Smithsonian Report. 1961. — Meyer 



PLATE 6 




S~ Cy/inder if Si " 3/nir Snym 
aecffon ffin>"ffi Cylindtr tJJn. 



Manly-Balzer engine. Cross section of a cylinder showing spark plug, automatic intake 
and push-rod operated exhaust valves and their mechanisms, fuel/air intake and water 
manifolds, water jackets, piston, connecting rods, and crankshaft. 



Smithsonian Report, 1961. — Meyer 



Plate 7 




Smithsonian Report. 1961. — Meyer 



Plate 




as T3 

.5 ns 



2 tL 






& ^' 



Smithsonian Report. 1 96 1. -Meyer 



Plate 9 




THREE FAMOUS EARLY AERO ENGINES — MEYER 359 

The Clement engine had two tasks to perform: the propulsion of 
a lighter-than-air craft, and the operation of a blower [fan] to aid 
in maintaining the rigidity and therefore the structural mtegrity of 
the dirigible's envelope [balloon]. 

As Santos Dumont stated above, this motor would propel his dimin- 
utive airship up to 15 m.p.h. Forcing it much beyond this speed would 
not have been practical because of the envelope's great resistance to 
the passage of the air. If a considerably more powerful engine had 
been installed, it would have weighed so much that little or no ballast 
could have been carried. This would have prevented safe aerial 
navigation. 

The blower, as mentioned above, merely forced air under low pres- 
sure into a flexible compartment on the underside of the gas bag. 
This compensated for any reduction in stiffness of the airship's 
envelope due to a loss of lifting gas caused by leakage or purposeful 
releasing of the gas. Probably only a fraction of 1 horsepower was 
needed for this purpose. 

This particular engme was apparently designed for the Clement 
Autocyclette motorcycle which was sold in 1903. However, its light 
weight and reasonably good weight/power ratio made it an ideal 
engine for the diminutive airship. 

From 1903 until the advent of World War II, this motorcycle type 
of engine (two air-cooled cylinders in V-configuration) was being 
manufactured for single-place heavier-than-air craft. Below are 
listed some examples. 

British J.A.P. of 1909. 
French Farcot of 1913. 
British Blackburne of 1923. 
American Indian of 1925. 
British Anzani of 1936. 

Engines with their cylinders arranged horizontally on either side 
of the crankshaft (horizontally opposed) eventually replaced power- 
plants having the V-arrangement of the Clement. The advantages of 
the former type are more smoothness (the reciprocating parts coun- 
terbalanced each other) and better visibility (the cylinders did not 
protrude above the crankcase). This type gave way in turn to the 
four-cylinder engine in the same configuration. This four-cylinder 
version offered more smootliness owing to more frequent and smaller 
power impulses, as well as greater safety, for the loss of one cylinder 
would not cause a forced landing. After World War II most single- 
seat airplanes were powered by the four-cylinder horizontally opposed 
air-cooled engine. The Clement motorcycle type of engine therefore 
appears to have influenced aircraft engine design for single-seat air- 
planes directly for 35 years, and indirectly for more than 50 years. 

625325—62 ^24 



360 ANNUAL REPORT SIVHTHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

THE MANLY-BALZER ENGINE 

The second of these engines to power an aircraft was redesigned 
and rebuilt by the American Charles M. Manly. It was first used in 
an aircraft during the autumn of 1903. 

From 1887 to 1896 Samuel Pierpont Langley, Secretary of the 
Smithsonian Institution, had conducted a series of experiments with 
heavier-than-air craft models. By 1896 his steam-driven ones had 
made repeated flights of from one-half to three-quarters of a mile. 
President McKinley learned of these successes and during 1898 
authorized the expenditure of $50,000 for the construction and testing 
of a man-carrying heavier-than-air flying machine. Before agreeing 
to attempt the work for the War Department, Langley had made a 
search for a reliable builder who would undertake to construct a gas- 
oline engine of not less than 12 horsepower, to weigh not exceeding 
100 pounds. Wliat then seemed to be a sound contract had been 
entered into for one engine which would meet these requirements. 
The first builder was soon found to be unreliable, and after a more 
extended search, a contract was entered into on December 12, 1898, 
with Stephen M. Baker, an engine builder in New York City. He was 
to furnish an engine meeting the above-mentioned requirements by 
February 28, 1899. Since it had been estimated that 24 horsepower 
was needed, provision was made in the contract that a duplicate 
engine should be constructed immediately after the completion of the 
first one. 

The ancestor of this engine was a four-stroke-cycle, air-cooled 
three-cylinder rotary which Balzer had built for his 1894 automobile. 
The automobile with its engine is on display in the Smithsonian 
Institution, having been given by the builder on May 16, 1899. An 
extra engine was delivered to Charles M. Manly of the Smithsonian 
Institution on September 5, 1899. 

Wlien the end of February 1899 arrived, it was found that although 
the engine builder had succeeded in constructing an engine which 
weighed 100 pounds, and which theoretically should have given some- 
thing over 12 horsepower, it was impossible to make it work properly. 
The mechanical construction of the more important parts had been 
well executed, and this main portion of the contractural work was 
completed within the time called for by the contract. The trouble 
was that the engine, which was of the rotary-cylinder type, would not 
furnish anything like the power which had been expected of it, and 
which the size and number of its cylinders indicated that it should 
furnish. 

At this point Charles Manly took command of the situation. He had 
been appointed Langley's assistant in these experiments two years pre- 
viously at the age of 22, having graduated with distinction from the 
Cornell University School of Engineering. 



THREE FAMOUS EARLY AERO ENGINES — MEYER 361 

On May 6, 1900, lie visited Balzer in New York City to find out ex- 
actly what had been accomplished, and to see what might be done to im- 
prove the engine's efficiency. He tested the engine and found it pro- 
ducing only 4 hp., and this low output could be maintained for only 
a few minutes. After working on the problem for several weeks, 
Manly succeeded in obtaining a continuous rating of 8 hp. at 350 r.p.m. 
This being only two-thirds of the necessary power, the project was 
abandoned. 

Manly spent the next three months searching for a suitable engine 
among the American and European manufacturers without success. 
As a last resort, he decided to redesign the Balzer engine. 

By September 18, 1900, he had modified it with Balzer's help so 
that it developed I8I/2 hp. at 715 r.p.m. It differed from its original 
configuration by having stationary instead of rotating cylinders, and 
the cylinders water cooled with damp cloths instead of being air 
cooled. Later the ignition system was changed from the low-ten- 
sion make-and-break type (which was difficult to keep in time and 
in good operating condition) to the modern high-tension type using 
spark plugs. Considerable weight was saved by having a single coil 
and distributor for all five cylinders instead of a separate one for 
each. INIanly designed and made his own spark plugs which had a 
reliability far exceeding those available. He accomplished this by 
extending the metal portion of the plug and the terminals into the 
cylinder and beyond the insulator, thereby preventing soot deposits 
from forming and causing short circuits. With these improvements 
the engine developed 21.5 hp. at 825 r.p.m. while weighing but 120 
pounds. 

By this time it was realized that more than 24 hp. would be needed, 
for the aerodrome, as Langley called his flying machine, would weigh 
more than the original calculations indicated. (Smithsonian Insti- 
tution Information Leaflet No. 29 describes the aerodrome project.) 
Since it had been demonstrated that a single engine would develop 
sufficient horsepower, the heavier and more complicated dual-engine 
concept was abandoned. The engine was therefore redesigned by 
Manly, with larger cylinders, to give 40 hp. with all the cylinders 
operating, or 28 hp. with one cylinder "dead." He used some of 
Balzer's men and equipment. 

Four particularly important features were incorporated in the 
engine : 

1. Instead of the usual single-walled cylinder, the following double- 
walled construction was employed, making the cylinders stronger 
and lighter: an outer seamless shell, with an integrally formed head, 
made of YiQ-in. steel, providing the strength. To act as the wearing 
surface for the piston, a cast-iron liner, also i/ig in. thick, was shrunk 



362 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

into the steel shell. Near the bottom edge of the steel shell was 
screwed and brazed a flange which was then bolted to the crankcase. 
Entering the side of the cylinder near the top was the combustion 
chamber, which, together with the inlet port, was machined out of a 
solid steel forging and brazed to the cylinder. Balzer had pioneered 
this type of construction. 

2. Instead of using damp cloths wrapped around the cylinders for 
cooling purposes, which were effective for only 3 or 4 minutes, Manly 
developed a light-weight water jacket of sheet steel 0.02 in. thick 
which was brazed to each cylinder. 

3. Being a heavier-than-air craft of light construction, it was real- 
ized that attitudes, accelerations, and vibrations would be encountered 
which were quite foreign to automotive practice. For this reason the 
float type of carburetor, which was usually employed on automobiles, 
was abandoned as being too erratic in operation at its stage of develop- 
ment in 1003. Instead, a Balzer tj^pe of carburetor was employed 
which consisted of a tank filled with porous wooden balls. Gasoline 
was admitted at the bottom in a steady flow and the balls became 
saturated, thus giving off vapors which were drawn into the intake 
manifold. 

4. Instead of having each connecting rod attached directly to the 
main crankshaft bearing. Manly used a single master rod. It was 
attached directly to the main crankshaft bearing. To this were fast- 
ened the four link rods connected to the other pistons. In this manner 
the bearing area was greatly increased, which was necessary since the 
new engine was to develop more than twice as much power as 
its predecessor. 

The engine was completed in December 1901 and was tested in 
January 1902. Under a Prony brake load of 52.4 hp. at 950 r.p.m., 
it ran continuously for 10 hours during three separate tests. The net 
dry weight of the engine proper was 124.2 lb. With 20 lb. of cooling 
water, flywheels, batteries, and accessories, the total weight of the 
powerplant was 207.5 lb., or 3.96 lb. per hp. 

SPECIFICATIONS 

Cylinclers Sin radial configuration. 

Cooling Water. 

Carburetion Surface type, no flout. 

Ignition Battery, induction coil, sparli plug (high- 
tension). 

Horsepower 52.4 at 950 r.p.m. 

Bore and stroke 5 x 5.5 in. 

Displacement 540.2 cu. in. 

Dimensions 37-in. diameter and 19-in. width. 

Weight 207.5 lb. including cooling water. 

Weight/hp. ratio 3.96 lb. per hp. 

Country of manufacture U.S.A. 



THREE FAMOUS EARLY AERO ENGINES — METER 363 

There were two tasks which the Manly engine was to perform : it 
had to provide sufficient power to lift and to propel the aerodrome. It 
was calculated that 28 hp. would be enough if the weight/horsepower 
ratio were sufficiently low. How well the engine succeeded is revealed 
by the above specifications which show a continuous hp. of 52.4 and a 
weight/horsepower ratio of 3.96. This was the least heavy avia- 
tion engine for its power in the world mitil the advent of the 18-hp. 
three-cylinder air-cooled engine created by J. C. H. EUehammer of 
Denmark in 1906. It weighed 3 lb. per hp. 

For the next 40 years this same water-cooled radial type of engine 
was being manufactured for various types of aircraft. Below are 
listed some examples. 

American Albatross of 1910. 
French Salmson of 1919. 
French Anzani of 1920. 
German Rumpler design of 1923. 
German BMW 803 of 1944. 

The five-cylinder radial configuration was chosen by Balzer and 
Manly for the following principal reasons : 

1. The greater smootliness of operation of an odd as compared with 
an even number of cylinders. 

2. The greater uniformity of torque with increasing number of 
cylinders. Five seemed at that time to be the greatest practical odd 
number. 

3. The reduction of weight and complication of the radial form. 
This class of engine, air cooled instead of water cooled, emerged as 

the principal type of aircraft powerplant for the following 40 years. 
It is only now being replaced by jet engines. The Manly engine was 
therefore a 100-percent airplane engine although having automobile 
antecedents and was so well designed and built that it was a model 
for the majority of airplane engines produced throughout the world 
imtil the end of World War II. 

THE WRIGHT BROTHERS' ENGINE OF 1903 

The third of these engines to power an aircraft was that of the 
Wright brothers during the winter of 1903. Orville and Wilbur 
Wright designed the engine themselves and built it with the help of 
their machinist, Charles E. Taylor. It was apparently based on the 
single-cylinder natural-gas engine they had designed and built pre- 
viously to power their 1901 wind tunnel. 

They began to build it in December 1902, and the first tests were run 
on February 12, 1903. On the 13th dripping gasoline caused the bear- 
ings to freeze, and this broke the engine body and frame. It was 
necessary to order a new aluminmn casting which was received on 
April 20, 1903. The rebuilt motor was shop tested in May. In a 



364 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

description of the motor by Wilbur Wright dated February 28, 1903, 
he had this to say : 

We recently built a four-cylinder gasoline engine with 4" piston and 4" stroke, 
to see how powerful it would be, and what it would weigh. At 670 revolutions 
per min. it developed 8i/^ horsepower, brake test. By speeding it up to 1,000 rev. 
we will easily get 11 horsepower and possibly a little more at still higher speed, 
though the increase is not in exact proportion to the increase in number of revo- 
lutions. The weight including the 30-pound flywheel is 140 lbs. 

A description of the rebuilt motor by Orville Wright dated June 28, 
1903, follows : "Since putting in heavier springs to actuate the valves 
on our engine we have increased its pov/er to nearly 16 horsepower, 
and at the same time reduced the amount of gasoline consumed per 
hour to about one half of what it was before." 

By November 5, 1903, the engine had been tested in the Wrights' 
first powered airplane, the "Kitty Hawk Flyer." Considerable trouble 
was experienced with the propeller shafts. Finally, new ones had to 
be made, and so the engine did not become successfully airborne until 
December 17, 1903. 

A detailed description of the motor follows. It consists of quota- 
tions from "The Papers of Wilbur and Orville Wright," edited by 
Marvin W. McFarland. 

This historic motor is described by Orville Wright in an undated typewritten 
memorandum among the Wright papers in the Library of Congress: The motor 
used in the first flights at Kitty Hawk, N.C., on December 17, 1903, had (four) 
horizontal cylinders of 4-inch bore and 4-inch stroke. The ignition was by low- 
tension magneto with make-and-break spark. The boxes inclosing the intake and 
exhaust valves had neither water jackets nor radiating fins, so that after a few 
minutes' run the valves and valve boxes became red hot. There was no float-feed 
carburetor. The gasoline was fed to the motor by gravity in a constant stream 
and was vaporized by running over a large heated siirface of the water jacket of 
the cylinders. Due to the preheating of the air by the water jacket and the red- 
hot valves and boxes, the air was greatly expanded before entering the cylinders. 
As a result, in a few minutes' time, the power dropped to less than 75 percent of 
what it was on cranking the motor. 

The motor was worn in by driving a flat-bladed fan, of approximately five-foot 
diameter, mounted on the crankshaft. From measurements made in many tests 
with a stop watch and revolutions counter the speed at which the motor could 
turn this fan was known. The highest speed ever measured was 300 turns 
(1,200 r.p.m.) in the first fifteen seconds after starting the cold motor. The 
revolutions dropped rapidly and were down to 1,090 r.p.m. after several minutes' 
run. 

The crankcase and water jacket were cast in a single block of aluminum alloy. 
The crankshaft was made from a block of machine steel 1% inches thick and 
had five babbitted main bearings. A 15-inoh, 26-pound flywheel was attached to 
the rear end of the shaft. A chain drive on the front end drove the camshaft, 
which operated the breaker arms and exhaust valves. A boxwood idler, 1^4 
inches in diameter, without flanges, created tension on the chain. 



THREE FAMOUS EARLY AERO ENGINES — MEYER 365 

The valve lieads were made of cast iron. The stems were of steel. The Intake 
valves operated automatically. Neither the cylinders nor the pistons vpere 
ground. The connecting rods were seamless steel tubes screwed into brass big 
ends. 

The motor was started with the aid of a dry-battery coil box. After starting, 
ignition was provided by a low-tension magneto, friction-driven by the flywheel. 
This magneto — permanent horseshoe magnets with exciting coils — weighed 18 
pounds. Insulated ignition electrodes in the cylinder heads were connected by 
a strap of copper. The speed of the motor was regulated on the ground by 
retarding the spark, A small lever on the leg of the motor controlled the timing 
of the spark by altering the position of the camshaft. There was no way to 
regulate the speed of the motor in flight. 

Lubrication was supplied to the cylinders by a small oil pump driven by a 
worm gear on the camshaft. No pump was used in the cooling system. The 
vertical sheet-steel radiator was attached to the central forward upright. Gas 
feed was controlled by a metering valve, not adjustable during flight, A shutoff 
valve, made from an ordinary gaslight pet cock, was placed conveniently near 
the operator. The fuel tank had a capacity of 0,4 gallon. The fuel line was 
copper. 

The weight of the 1903 engine is given as 161 pounds dry in Orville 
Wright's letter to Charles L. Lawrance, November 15, 1928, or 179 
pounds with magneto. Complete with magneto, radiator, tank, water, 
fuel, tubing, and accessories, the powerplant weighed a little over 200 
pounds. 

Orville Wright gave some additional facts in his letter to Fred H. 
Colvin, March 13, 1945 : 

It was entirely disassembled after the flights at Kitty Hawk in December 1903, 
due to an accident to the crankcase, and was never reassembled until 1916, when 
it was put together and exhibited with the 1903 plane at the dedication of the 
new M.I.T, buildings. 

On January 9, 1906, Orville Wright wrote Carl Dienstbach in reply 
to a request for an exhibit at the first Aero Club show in New York : 

We could not furnish the motor used on our original flyer. The water jacket 
and the main frame have been very much changed ; the metal of the old frame 
has been used in making new castings. We could send you the crankshaft and 
flywheel of the original engine, but we do not think it would be worth while. 

The crankshaft and flywheel were sent, however, and on February 7, 
1906, Orville Wright again wrote Dienstbach : 

We are pleased to present the photographs to the Club and would be glad to 
leave with the Club some relic from our first flyer. We have no objection to the 
Club's retaining the crank and flywheel for the present, though we wish the 
privilege of claiming it if we should decide to set the original machine together 
again, only a few parts of which are lacking. All of the parts of the engine 
are still in existence excepting the body. 

The crankshaft and flywheel of the 1903 motor were not returned 
by the Aero Club after the exhibit, and when a search was made for 
them some years later they could not be found. Therefore when the 
1903 aeroplane and motor were assembled for shipment to England 



366 ANTSrUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

in 1928, it was necessary to substitute for the missing parts the crank- 
shaft and flywheel of the 1904 motor. A handwritten memorandum 
among the Wright papers in the Library of Congress (dated 1945 
and initialed O. W.) attests to this substitution: "Crankshaft and 
flywheel of 1904 motor, with modification to fit 1903 chain-guide bear- 
ing, now in 1903 motor." 

Additional information about this engine was furnished by Charles 
E. Taylor in an article that appeared in the May 1928 issue of the 
journal Slipstream. A partial quotation follows: 

Orv and Will then asked me to help them build the motor for their first power- 
driven machine. They had a little workshop where they built and repaired 
bicycles at 1927 West Third Street. As I recall we first hit upon the idea of an 
air-cooled motor but we decided after some figuring that it would weigh more 
per horsepower than a water-cooled type so we settled upon the latter. I do 
not know but that if we could have secured the light alloys available today we 
would have gone ahead with the air-cooled job. 

The first thing we did as an experiment was to construct a sort of skeleton 
model in order that we might watch the functioning of the various vital parts 
before venturing with anything more substantial. Orv and Will were pretty 
thorough that way — they wouldn't take anything for granted but worked every- 
thing out to a practical solution without too much haste. I think that had a 
lot to do with their later success. 

When we had the skeleton motor set up we hooked it to our shop power, 
smeared the cylinders with a paint brush dipped in oil and watched the various 
parts in action. It looked good so we went ahead immediately with the construc- 
tion of a four cylinder engine. I cut the crank shaft from a solid block of steel 
weighing over a hundred pounds. When finished it weighed about 19 pounds. We 
didn't have spark plugs but used the old "make and break" system of ignition. 
The gas was led in and made to spread over the chamber above the heated water 
jackets and this immediately vaporized it. Of course, we had real gasoline in 
that day — fully 76 proof and you could count on it going into action at the least 
excuse. 

The cylinders of that first motor were made of gray iron as were the pistons. 
As I recall those cylinders were from % inch to %6 inch in thickness. So far 
as I know that was the first four cylinder engine ever built. The automobile 
manufacturers were out of the picture then and the Oldsmobile firm was the only 
one I was familiar with at that time. We tried to get a motor built there but 
they couldn't make one near the low weight we wanted. The old one-lunger 
auto engines of that day really weighed more than our entire flying machine 
with the first motor installed. 

When the engine was ready for block test we rigged up a connection with 
natural gas, put on a resistance fan and made several block runs in this manner. 
Later we used gasoline fuel and found the motor would run satisfactorily. That 
first motor developed around 18 h.p. and weighed around 190 pounds. We were 
all highly pleased at being able to hold down the weight to this figure but a 
short time afterward we built another motor that produced around 45 h.p. and 
which weighted about the same as the first one. 

When we installed the first motor in the original machine it lay on its side 
to the right of the pilot and in such a position that the pilot's weight partially 
off -set that of the motor. The radiator was made from speaking tubes flattened 
to reduce the capacity. 

Yes, I must admit there wasn't much to that first motor — no carburetor, no 



I 



THREE FAMOUS EARLY AERO ENGINES — MEYER 367 

spark plugs, not much of anything but cylinders, pistons and connecting rods, 
but it worked. 

SPECIFICATIONS 

Cylinders 4 horizontal in-line. 

Cooling Water. 

Carburetion Surface type — no float. 

Ignition Low-tension magneto with make-and-break 

spark. 

Horsepower 12.05 at 1,090 r.p.m. 

Bore and stroke 4 x 4 in. 

Displacement 201.1 cu. in. 

Dimensions 13% in. high x 23%2 in. wide x 301^6 iu. long. 

Weight Slightly over 200 pounds including cooling 

water. 

Weight/hp. ratio Approximately 16.6 lb. per hp. 

Country of manufacture U.S.A. 

In June of 1903 Orville Wright wrote to a friend: 

About Christmastime we began the construction of the motor, which is of 
four cylinders, four-inch bore and four-inch stroke. We had estimated that we 
would require a little over eight horsepower to carry our weight of 625 lbs. of 
machine and man. At this weight we would be limited to two hundred lbs. for 
our motor. Our motor on completion turned out to be a very pleasant surprise. 
Instead of eight horsepower, for which we hoped but hardly expected, it has 
given us 13 (non-continuous) horsepower on the brake, with a (dry) weight of 
only 150 lbs. in the motor. 

In 1904 we built two more motors of the design of 1903, excepting that an extra 
half inch of water was provided for over the cylinders. One of these motors was 
of four-inch bore. . . . The four-inch bore motor was experimented with In 
the shop in 1904, 1905, and 1906, and finally was developed to the point where 
it would hold 24 to 25 horsepower continuously at 1,300 revolutions per minute. 
This was just twice the power secured from the original motor of the same 
size. . . . 

Although the 1903 Wright brothers' motor was heavier for the 
horsepower it delivered than those of Santos Dumont or Professor 
Langley (respectively two and four times as heavy), it nevertheless 
fulfilled its function. On April 12, 1911, Orville Wright wrote : "We 
look upon reliability in runnmg as of much more importance than 
lightness of weight in aeroplane motors. We attempt to design our 
flyers of such efficiency that extremely light motors are not needed." 

Since the Wright brothers did not liave the wealth of Santos Du- 
mont or the Government grant of Langley, it was necessary for them 
to build their own engine. It therefore had to be of practical and 
simple design. A logical procedure was to adapt the automobile 
engine to the requirements of the airplane, which is what they did. 

Following is a list of pre-World War I engines of the automobile 
type which were similar to the Wright brothers' 1903 engine in that 
they had four in-line cylinders, were water cooled, and were equipped 
with large flywheels. 



368 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

French Clement-Bayard of 1908 

Frencli Renault of 1908 

French Vivinus of 1908 

French Chenu of 1909 

German Daimler of 1909 

English Green of 1910 

Italian Fiat of 1910 

American Hansen and Snow of 1910 

American Sturtevant of 1911 

German Adler of about 1911 

German A.E.G. of about 1912 

Between World Wars I and II the following American automobile 
water-cooled engines were converted to power the listed airplanes. 

Model T Ford-engined Sessions-Smith Pietenpol "Sky Scout" of 1932 
Plymouth-engined Fahlin "Plymo-Coupe" of 1935 
Ford Model A-engined "Wiley Post" of 1935 
Studebaker-engined Waterman "Arrowbile" of 1936 
Ford V-8-englned Arrow "Sport V-8" of 1936 

After World War II the following German air-cooled automobile 
engines were used in the listed airplanes. 

Volkswagen-engined French Jodel "D-9" of 1948 onward 
Volkswagen-engined French Druine "D.31 Turbulent" of 1956 onward 
Volkswagen-engined Belgian Avions Fairey "T-66 Tipsy Nipper" of 1956 

onward. In addition, PoUman "Hepu" Porsche engines were available for 

those wishing increased power. 

In this country by 1960 some airplanes were already powered by the 
American Chevrolet Corvair air-cooled automobile engine, although 
up to that time no manufacturer had produced an airplane design 
to be powered with it. 

In conclusion, let it be noted that the Santos Dumont Clement 
motorcycle- type engine started a trend that continued (for single- 
seat light aircraft) until World War II. The Wright brothers' auto- 
mobile-type engine started a trend that continued through 1960 (and 
probably will continue for a good many years) for one- and two-seat 
light airplanes. The Manly-Balzer type of engine was the only one 
of the three that was truly an airplane engine. What started out as 
a static, water-cooled radial evolved to the rotary air-cooled engines 
of World War I, and thence to the static, air-cooled radials of World 
War II. These engines, because of their greater simplicity and light- 
ness, had gained ascendancy over the automobile-type water-cooled 
ones with in-line cylinders by the beginning of World War II. 
Since that time the jet engine has come to the fore with regard to 
high-performance airplanes, but the radial engine through 1960 was 
still the choice of many operators because of its low original cost and 
low fuel consumption. 



THREE FAMOUS EARLY AERO ENGINES — MEYER 369 

GRAPHICS FOR THE CLEMENT ENGINE 

The following 8- X 10-in. black-and-white photographs are available from 
the National Air Museum of the Smithsonian Institution. 

Negative No. Description 

*46,816-B Rear view of Clement engine as exhibited in the Air and Space 

Building of the National Air Museum, showing cylinders, 
valve mechanisms, flywheel, clutch, and blower. 

*46,816-A Left side view of Clement engine as exhibited in the Air 

and Space Building of the National Air Museum, showing 
left cylinder and its valve mechanism, spark timing system, 
flywheel, clutch, and blower. 

*46,816 Right side view of Clement engine as exhibited in the Air 

and Space Building of the National Air Museum, showing 
right cylinder and its valve mechanism, spark timing system, 
carburetor, clutch, and flywheel. 

30,556 Front left view showing valve mechanism and spark advance. 

GRAPHICS FOR THE MANLY-BALZER ENGINE 

The following are photographs available from the Smithsonian Institution : 

♦30,592-A Manly-Balzer engine. Left side view as exhibited in the Air 

and Space Building of the National Air Museum showing 
cylinders, exhaust ports, push rods, cooling water manifold, 
fuel/air intake manifold, and flywheels. 

*30,592 Manly-Balzer engine. Right side view as exhibited in the 

Air and Space Building of the National Air Museum showing 
cylinders, flywheels, and ignition timing mechanism. 

18,081 Carburetor. 

The following are photographs of drawings : 

19,874-A Same view as Negative No. 30,592-A, but in addition shows 

starting crank. 
19,874-D Plan view showing cylinders, flywheels, starting crank, spark 

plugs, fuel/air and water manifolds, and ignition timing 

mechanism. 

19,874r-B Plan and front views of ignition timing mechanism. 

*19,874-C Manly-Balzer engine. Cross section of a cylinder showing 

spark plug, automatic intake, and push-rod-operated exhaust 

valves and their mechanisms, fuel/air intake and water 

manifolds, water jackets, piston, connecting rods, and 

crankshaft. 

GRAPHICS FOR THE WRIGHT BROTHERS* ENGINE 

The following are photographs available from the Smithsonian Institution: 

*41,898-A Left front view. It shows the combustion chambers, auto- 
matic intake valve mechanism, exhaust valve rocker arms, 
external electrical connections for make-and-break ignition 
system, spark retard lever, water outlets, fuel line and open- 
ended tin can within which fuel and air were mixed, oil 
line, chain connecting crankshaft and camshaft with its 
sprockets and boxwood idler, and a part of the flywheel. 



370 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

Negative No. Description 

38,626-F Left rear view. It shows the combustion chambers, the ex- 
haust valve rocker arms and springs, the exhaust valve 
camshaft, external electrical connections for the make-and- 
break ignition system, the camshaft and part of the mecha- 
nism for operating the breakers within the combustion 
chambers, oil feed line and manifold, part of the timing 
chain, and flywheel with its oiler and sprockets for driving 
the propellers. 

♦38,388 Rear right view of the motor as mounted in the airplane. It 

shows the magneto driven by friction from the flywheel's 
rim, the flywheel with its oiler, and the chains connecting it 
with the propellers, water outlet lines, automatic intake 
valve springs, and open-ended can surface type of carburetor. 

*41,898-C Plan view of the bottom. It shows the flywheel with its 

sprockets and oiler, the external parts of the oil pump, the 
oil in line to the pump, and the oil out line to the manifold 
which distributes it to the crackshaf t bearings, the inlet for 
cooling water, the exhaust valve camshaft, rocker arms, and 
valve springs, the ignition make-and-break system camshaft 
and part of the operating equipment, and part of the timing 
chain together with its idler. 

The following are photographs of drawings. Permission to use must be ob- 
tained from the Science Museum, London, England. 

38,319-D 6-view drawing of the entire motor. 

38,320-C Mainly a cross-section drawing showing the combustion cham- 
ber, cylinder, crankcase, piston, connecting rod, and crank- 
shaft. 

38,320-A Mainly drawings of crankcase cover, valves, and valve guides. 

38,320-E Mainly drawings of magneto, gasoline tank, and radiator. 

The National Air Museum, Smithsonian Institution, has blueprints for sale as 
follows: No. C-3 showing plan view. No. C-1 showing left side elevation, and 
No. C-9 showing magneto. 

N.B. — Views of all engines refer to their positions in aircraft. 

♦Items marked with an asterisk are illustrations that appear in this paper. 

SELECTED BIBLIOGRAPHY 

1. Santos-Dumont, A. My air-ships. Century Co., New York, 1904. 

2. Scientific American for July 11, 1903. 

3. Aerosphere for 1939. Edited by Glenn D. Angle. Aircraft Publications, 

New York. 

4. Langley memoir on mechanical flight. Pt. 2, by Charles M. Manly. Smith- 

sonian Institution, 1911. 

5. Veal, C. B. Manly, the engineer. S.A.E. Journ., vol. 44, No. 4, April 1939. 

6. Original source material by Langley, Manly, and Balzer. 

7. U.S. Patent No. 573174 dated Dec. 15, 1896, by Stephen M. Balzer, 

8. The Aeroplane (British), Apr. 11, 1958. 

9. The papers of Wilbur and Orville Wright, including the Chanute-Wright 

letters and other papers of Octave Chanute. Edited by Marvin W. Mc- 
Farland. McGraw-Hill Book Co., New York, Toronto, and London, 1953. 



THREE FAMOUS EARLY AERO ENGINES — MEYER 371 

10. Macmillan, Norman. Great aircraft. St. Martin's Press, New York, 1960. 

11. Gibbs-Smith, Charles H. The aeroplane — an historical survey of its origins 

and development. Her Majesty's Stationery Office in cooperation with 
the Science Museum, London, 1960. 

12. Marshall, Fred, editor of Slipstream. Building the original Wright motor. 

Slipstream, May 1928. 



Reprints of the various articles in this Report may be obtained, as long as 
the supply lasts, on request addressed to the Editorial and Publications 
Division, Smithsonian Institution, Washington 25, D.C. 



Organic Chemistry: A View and a Prospect ' 



By Sir Alexander Todd 

Professor of Organic Chemistry 
University of Cambridge, England 



Organic chemistry is as old as chemistry itself, but it was first rec- 
ognized as a separate division at the end of the 18th century. Its 
growth to become not only the largest part of chemis.:ry, but one of the 
largest of all the sciences in its factual content and in the number of 
its adherents, has occurred essentially during the past hundred years — 
since indeed it acquired its necessary theoretical basis through the 
work of Frankland, Couper, Kekule, van't Hoff, and Le Bel, to men- 
tion only the major names associated with the basic structural theory 
of carbon compounds. Today its rate of growth is as fast as ever and 
the output of original work is prodigious. Some idea of that output 
is given by the calculation made a few years ago that, assuming an 
organic chemist were to read for 8 hours each day, it would take him 
about 18 months to read all the literature in his own subject produced 
during one year and published in the standard European and Amer- 
ican journals. 

Parallel with the phenomenal growth of the science, there has been 
an equally phenomenal growth of organic chemical industry until 
today it is a vital factor in the economy of Britain as well as of all other 
industrial countries. During the 6 years ending in 1960, when chemi- 
cal industry as a whole showed an annual growth rate of 6.5 percent 
(as against an over-all rate of 3.1 percent for industry as a whole), 
the annual rate of growth for certain of the main organic sectors was 
even higher (plastics 15 percent, general organic chemicals 13 percent, 
pharmaceuticals 8.4 percent). These figures reflect the constantly 
growing impact of organic chemistry on nearly every aspect of our 
material civilization, for many products of the industry based on it 
such as plastics, synthetic fibers, dyes, detergents, adhesives, coatings, 
etc., are absorbed by and form a vital part of a variety of industries 
not themselves ordinarily regarded as chemical. In these circum- 

* Reprinted by permission from The Times Science Review, London, No. 42, Winter 1061. 
(C) The Times Publishing Co., Ltd., 1961. AU rights reserved. 

373 



374 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

stances it is interesting, at the end of about a century's growth — for 
the science of organic chemistry and the organic chemical industry 
have grown side by side in close association with one another — to look 
at the present position of the science and to see whether future trends 
are discernible. This involves not only consideration of the most 
recent advances, but also a brief glance at the course of development 
in past years ; for development patterns tend to repeat themselves in 
science as elsewhere. 

NATURAL PRODUCTS 

Organic chemistry is usually defined as the chemistry of the carbon 
compounds, but its original definition given by Berzelius just over 150 
years ago was "the chemistry of substances found in living matter." 
Although Berzelius's definition is inadequate insofar as a very large 
number of carbon compounds are known which do not occur in living 
matter, the older definition is worth remembering because it was 
interest in the chemistry of living matter that initiated the science. 
It is, moreover, fair to say that the study of substances found in liv- 
ing matter has provided most of the stimuli to the advance of organic 
chemistry throughout its history, and there is little reason to doubt 
that this will continue to be the case. But the direct study of sub- 
stances present in living matter — broadly described as natural prod- 
ucts — which is now one of the dominant features of organic chemistry 
has only become so during the 20th century. This is not, however, 
surprising. Many of the products of living matter are of extreme 
complexity, and they were for the most part far beyond the reach 
of the early organic chemists. Even when the basic theory essential 
for modern developments was laid down about a hundred years ago 
the practical teclmiques available were too feeble to do more than 
permit the study of some relatively simple examples, and the second 
half of the 19th century was the period in which structural and 
synthetic organic chemistry grew to the point at which a return to 
the study of complex natural substances became practicable. It was 
during this initial intensive phase of development that organic chemi- 
cal industry also grew to be of major importance. Modern organic 
chemical industry had its origin in the dyestuffs industry which be- 
gan just a hundred years ago in this country with W. H. Per kin's 
accidental discovery of mauveine in the course of an abortive attempt 
to synthesize quinine in the laboratory, and was spurred on by work 
such as that of Graebe and Liebermann on the dyestuff of madder 
root which led to the synthesis of alizarin. It was thus born of 
academic research and as it grew and prospered, so did the science 
of organic chemistry. From those early days up to the present time 
the industiy and the science have been closely associated; this has 



ORGANIC CHEMISTRY — TODD 375 

been greatly to tlie advantage of both and may help to explain their 
extraordinarily rapid growth. No industry stands closer to its parent 
science than does the organic chemical industry and in no industry is 
the gap between scientific discovery and industrial development 
smaller. 

SYNTHESIS AND THEORY 

Synthetic organic chemistry, which was well established by the be- 
ginning of this century, was and remains the backbone of the organic 
chemical industry and it still continues as one of the main streams of 
research in the science. Natural-product chemistry has been, how- 
ever, dominant in the academic field for close on 50 years ; essentially 
concerned with stnictural elucidation, it has also had a considerable 
influence on synthetic chemistry, since total synthesis of a natural 
product is commonly regarded as the final proof of structure. Many 
natural products are of such complexity that novel synthetic pro- 
cedures have had to be devised for them, enriching the general arsenal 
of synthetic methods at the chemist's command. Natural-product 
chemistiy has, of course, also influenced the course of industry by 
giving it new leads to the production of materials with desirable 
properties in one direction or another; this has been particularly 
marked in the pharmaceutical industry in the fields of hormones, 
hormone substitutes, and synthetic drugs. But it is also noticeable 
in other branches — the connection between natural coloring matters 
and the dyestuffs industry has already been mentioned, and the plastic 
and polymer field owes much to work such as that of the German 
chemist Harries on natural rubber; many other examples could be 
given. 

There is, however, a third important line of advance in organic 
chemistry which has come into special prominence during the past 20 
years or so. This concerns theoretical aspects of the subject. It is 
true to say that organic chemistry at the beginning of this century was 
in danger of stagnation since its theoretical basis, although essentially 
sound, was relatively undeveloped, and the science, with its enor- 
mous factual content, was distinctly topheavy. Fortunately, ideas 
stemming from the new atomic physics were soon brought to its aid 
through the young science of physical chemistry, and these have led 
over the years to a much deeper and more precise understanding of 
organic structures and of the mechanism of organic chemical reac- 
tions. These theoretical advances have greatly influenced recent 
developments in all branches of the subject, although they have pre- 
sented a number of knotty problems to the universities since they 
have entailed a lot of re-thinking of teaching methods ; it is doubtful 

625325 — 62 25 



376 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

whether a wholly satisfactory solution to these problems has yet been 
found. 

These three, admittedly somewhat arbitrary, divisions of organic 
chemistry represent the main lines of advance which, by their progress 
and interplay, have brought organic chemistry to its present level in 
the academic and industrial fields. 

NEW TECHNIQUES 

One final point regarding their development should, however, be 
made. All three divisions have owed much to the successive introduc- 
tion of new techniques and indeed without the development of micro- 
analytical methods, chromatography — paper, ion-exchange, and 
more recently vapor-phase ^ — and the introduction of physical 
methods of analysis and identification using spectroscopy in its various 
forms as well as X-ray crystallography, none of them could have 
reached its present position. "Wliat has been achieved and how far 
can one estimate from the answer to that question the outlook for the 
future ? 

Carbon compounds both natural and synthetic fall into two great 
groups. The first comprises those substances whose molecules can 
be regarded as units in themselves ; these are of relatively low molec- 
ular weight varying from methane (CH4) with a molecular weight 
of 16 to vitamin Bio(Cg3H88Ni40i4PCo) with one of 1354. The 
second group is that of the so-called macromolecules which includes 
inter alia the polysaccharides, proteins, nucleic acids, and rubber 
among natural products, and the synthetic polymers and plastics 
among synthetic materials. These substances have very large mole- 
cules, and their molecular weight may run into millions, as in the 
case of nucleic acids. It is characteristic of them that they are made 
up of a very large number of small unit molecules all joined together 
in a more or less regular manner by processes of polymerization or 
polycondensation. Since substances of the second group cannot 
normally be purified by the traditional methods of crystallization 
or distillation it is not surprising that most of the progress in organic 
chemistry has hitherto been in the field of the relatively small "unit" 
molecules. 

There indeed it has been spectacular. The structures of a very 
large number of complex natural products have been worked out — 
vitamins, hormones, antibiotics, alkaloids, steroids, coenzymes, etc. — 
and most of them have been synthesized; many, indeed, are today 
manufactured by synthesis on a commercial scale. The power of 
modern organic synthesis has been amply demonstrated in recent 

= See, for example. "A New Kind of Chromatogram," by A. T. James, In No. 16 of The 
Times Science Review, London, Summer, 1955. 



ORGANIC CHEMISTRY — TODD 377 

years by such achievements as the total synthesis of steroids, such as 
cholesterol and cortisone, of chlorophyll, of cozyniase, and of alka- 
loids such as strychnine. Synthetic methods have indeed reached 
such a level of perfection that very few structures would seem be- 
yond their grasp. Structural determination, which in natural-prod- 
uct chemistry usually precedes synthesis, has in the past 10 years 
or so made enormous strides by the introduction of new physical 
methods based on ultraviolet, infrared, and nuclear magnetic reso- 
nance spectroscopy, and on X-ray crystallography. The power of 
the last-named analytical tool is amply demonstrated in the brilliant 
work of Prof. D. Crowfoot Hodgkin on the structure of vitamin B12. 
Such techniques have already rendered obsolescent many of the 
older degradative methods of the organic chemist — in whicli the 
structure of a complex molecule was arrived at by a study of the 
breakdown products formed from it in different conditions — and fur- 
ther advances in the same direction may be expected from the newer 
applications of mass spectroscopy which enables a mixture of mole- 
cules to be separated on the basis of their respective masses. The 
flowering of structural and synthetic chemistry is reflected in the 
triumphs of the allied industrj^ — the stream of synthetic drugs which 
have given for the first time cures rather than palliatives for many 
diseases, pesticides and herbicides, new dyes of vastly improved per- 
formance, as well as detergents and a host of other materials now 
regarded as normal features in our daily life. Moreover, the spec- 
tacular development of catalytic methods of synthesis and degra- 
dation in the field of petroleum chemistry has led not only to the 
appearance of a wealth of new intermediates for the chemical industry, 
but also to a gradual ousting of coal in favor of petroleum as its raw 
material. 

MACROMOLECULES 

Progress in the study of macromolecular substances was, until com.- 
paratively recently, very slow, largely because of the absence of 
experimental tecliniques for dealing with them. But with the ap- 
pearance of the newer physical tecliniques of separation, study of the 
natural macromolecules both by degradation and synthesis has begun 
to grow very rapidly. Among the more spectacular developments 
have been the structural elucidation of a number of protein or poly- 
peptide hormones including insulin and the total synthesis of a num- 
ber of the smaller members of the group such as vasopressin. Sub- 
stantial progress is now being made in determining the structure of 
the larger natural proteins, a striking example being provided by 
the very recent work on myoglobin structure ^ using X-ray methods 

* See, for example, "Molecules of Life" in No. 28 of The Times Science Review, London, 
Summer, 1958, and the model of the structure of myoglobin reproduced in No. 37, Autumn, 
1960. p. 1. 



378 ANlSrUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

as a primary tool. The outlook in protein chemistry, which 15 years 
ago was still rather bleak, is now full of promise and offers new 
vistas in biology and medicine. Equally spectacular have been de- 
velopments in the nucleic-acid field. Since the establislmient of 
the general structure of the nucleic acids by chemical means 10 years 
ago and the consequent establishment of the physical nature of the 
deoxyribonucleic acids which form the genie material in living cells, 
there has been an astonishing flowering of chemical and biological 
work in this field. Occupying as they do a central position in the 
cellular economy by controlling the transmission of hereditary char- 
acteristics and by guiding the synthesis of cellular proteins, the 
nucleic acids form a group of compounds whose importance in life 
processes can hardly be overestimated. They are also key constitu- 
ents of viruses, and the relevance of their study to research on cancer 
is being increasingly recognized. Much remains to be done chemi- 
cally, before anything approaching a full understanding of the 
structure and function of individual nucleic acids will be realized, 
but the increasing attention being paid to them certainly holds out 
considerable hope for the future. 

The production of synthetic macromolecular materials — plastics, 
' synethetic fibers, resins, and rubbers — is one of the fastest growing 
sectors of organic chemical industry. It had its beginnings in the 
production of synthetic resins like bakelite and in the efforts made, 
notably in Germany, to produce satisfactory substitutes for natural 
rubber by polymerizmg butadiene and other conjugated dienes, and 
it has since undergone enormous development. The reason for this 
development is easily understood, since by applying polymerization 
or polycondensation methods to a variety of small organic molecules 
one can obtain materials analogously constituted to the great classes 
of natural macromolecules and so produce fibers, elastomers, and plas- 
tic materials which may in many cases be more suited to a particular 
use than naturally occurring materials (cf., for example, nylon, wool, 
and silk). In this field the most striking recent advances have been 
perhaps in the field of olefine polymerization (notably, ethylene and 
propylene) at low pressures with organometallic catalysts, and the 
production of isotactic polymers in which the monomer units are 
arranged in a stereochemically regular manner. This regularity, 
which is always found in the natural macromolecules, opens the way 
to synthetic polymers with properties markedly different from the 
randomly arranged polymers produced by older processes. 

POINTERS TO FUTURE 

In these various fields there are visible a number of trends which, 
I believe, point to likely directions of future research and industrial 



ORGANIC CHEMISTRY — TODD 379 

development. On the academic side natural-product chemistry has 
been slowly changing in emphasis in recent years. Methods of anal- 
ysis and synthesis have been brought to a high stage of perfection 
and, partly because of this, since the midthirties interest has been turn- 
ing slowly from molecular structure as such to the study of structure 
in relation to function and to the mechanism of biosynthesis of 
natural products — an area of research which has received major stim- 
ulus from the availability of radioactive isotopes with which bio- 
synthetic intermediates can be "labeled" and their ultimate location 
in the final products determined. A brilliant contribution in the field 
of biosynthesis has been the elucidation of the method used by living 
organisms to make steroids, terpenoids, and carotenoids, the raw 
material in every case being acetic acid. Examples of work in which 
structure and function are related are to be found in the study of 
chemical reactions in living systems where transfer of energy and oxi- 
dation are simultaneously effected using organic phosphates, and on 
the joining together of complex molecules by oxidation. These trends 
suggest that organic chemistry is likely to move deeper into the bio- 
logical field and that academically its main growing points are likely 
to be in the study of the course of biochemical processes and in the 
investigation of the natural macromolecules and their functions in the 
cell. It seems likely, too, that theoretical organic chemistry will turn 
also in the direction of biological processes and so make a major con- 
tribution in the same general fields of advance. This is likely to be 
the case not only in the study of reaction mechanisms but also in the 
further development of dynamic stereochemistry which has sprung 
into prominence in many important fields of research — for example, 
in the search for new drugs related to cortisone. 

All this does not mean that the broad field which I earlier described 
as synthetic organic chemistry is likely to wither. On the contrary, 
since it is an essential component of progress in organic chemical 
industry, it is likely to continue in vigorous growth searching for new 
and more economical methods of production, and for an ever-increasing 
array of new products each with some special property or combination 
of properties. On the industrial side the way ahead for the pharma- 
ceutical industry is clear but it may find itself devoting more of its 
synthetic effort to the macromolecular substances as virus diseases 
become an increasing preoccupation. For the rest, plastics and poly- 
mers are likely to continue as a major growing point. Here, as indeed 
also in general synthetic chemistry, the trend to the study of com- 
pounds containing, in addition to carbon, other elements such as flu- 
orine, silicon, and boron is likely to become increasingly evident. 

Already polymers based on tetrafluoroethylene are being marketed 
and silicon-containing polymers (silicones) are well known. The 



380 AJsnsruAL report Smithsonian institution, 1961 

introduction of other elements into carbon compounds opens up new 
fields of endeavor, since the products so formed often have quite dif- 
ferent properties (such as thermal stability, behavior under extremes 
of temperature and pressure) from those met with in ordinary organic 
chemicals. It is likely, too, that synthetic polymers and polycon- 
densates will find increasing use as structural materials in their own 
right. This will not only stimulate increased research in the field but 
it will lead to enormously greater production and to a number of 
plastics still regarded as "chemicals" becoming everyday structural 
materials and being used like wood and steel; such a change may 
considerably influence the structure of the industry producing them. 

It is, of course, impossible to review adequately the present situation 
of organic chemistry either in the academic or industrial field within 
the compass of a short article. Developments in recent years have been 
so rapid and so multifarious that it is difficult to single out the really 
important advances or to see the whole in perspective. For this reason 
it is rash to prophesy ; all that one can do is to make a personal esti- 
mate of current trends and where they may lead. But one thing is 
certain — organic chemistry is still in a period of vigorous growth and 
in the future the industry based on it will be an increasingly important 
factor in the national economy. 



The New Age of the Sea ' 



By Philip B. Yeager ' 

Member Professional Staff, Committee on Science and Astronautics 
U.S. House of Representatives 



[With 3 plates] 



If, IN" the past few years, there has been doubt that the world is 
plunging into unprecedented social and teclinological revolutions, the 
doubt is swiftly fading. Too much is happening too fast in both areas. 
It is almost as if someone had pulled keystones from a mountainside 
and started twin avalanches — one a rapid acceleration of social prob- 
lems (including economic, political, and military ones), and the other 
a tumbling series of brilliant teclinological advances. 

But there is a curious phenomenon connected with all this. It is a 
phenomenon growing more pronounced with each passing day. It 
consists of the fact that insofar as the world's rising social difficultias 
may find their answer in science, each is likely to do so by a route 
leading directly through the sea. That is, nearly all the major chal- 
lenges of the future which are now discernible seem to point like 
magnetized needles toward the oceans — indicating that an important 
part of their respective solutions lies somehow in deep water. 

It is doubtful if there is any parallel for this situation in the history 
of mankind. Of course the sea has been a powerful influence on the 
affairs of men for thousands of years, particularly since the age of 
discovery and exploration spanning the 15th, 16th, and I7th centuries. 
Most of us are accustomed to the thought that the sea came into its 
own when venturesome, visionary men like Magellan, Cabot, Colum- 
bus, and Vespucci proved its utility as a medium of global transport. 
Some of us would set the date as early as the time of Eric the Red and 
his son Leif, or of the Mediterranean fleets of Carthage and Rome. 

When the naval frigate and the 80-gun ship-of-the-line material- 
ized, to be followed quickly by the American clipper and the steam 

^ Reprinted by permission from the United States Naval Institute Proceedings, vol. 87, 
No. 6, June 1961. 

* The opinions or assertions In this article are the author's personal ones and are not to 
be construed as official or as the views of the House Committee on Science and Astronautics. 

381 



382 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

voyage of Savannah^ tlie age of the sea appeared to have reached full 
maturity ; it had become a primary area for both commerce and con- 
flict. And such, magnified many times, it remains. Yet a careful 
look ahead shows that, influential as it has been in the past and is 
today, the true significance of the sea for civilization is only beginning 
to become apparent. 

Those who have heard the scientific testimony presented to the 
committees of Congress in recent years are especially conscious of 
this. The inquiries of these groups have ranged from biological 
warfare to the political issues of exploring outer space, from the need 
for language computers to the potential uses of rocket engines, from 
geodetic myths and fallacies to the shifting curricula of American 
education. Through these and other technological surveys, there has 
been revealed not only the capabilities, wants, and expectations of the 
scientific fraternity, including anthropologists, but also those of the 
economist, the industrialist, the conservationist, the engineer, the gov- 
ernment official, the teacher, the student, the soldier, and the sailor. 

In addition to providing a factual base for current legislation, the 
inquiries have been designed to give public officials a preview of the 
issues they will be called upon to face in the decades ahead — issues so 
sweeping in scope that they must be anticipated and plamied for 
well in advance if they are to be met at all. 

It is from the analysis of the vast amount of information poured 
into Congress by the country's most laiowledgeable men and women 
that the image of the sea has emerged, almost startlingly, as a potent 
force which spreads across the entire spectrum of future human affairs. 

The direction in which we turn seems to make little difference. 
Regardless of the social complex or problem under study, if we trace 
its predictable convolutions far enough ahead, we discover that sooner 
or later the trail encounters some aspect of the expanding influence 
of the oceans. 

The most competent forecasts available today indicate strongly that 
the remainder of the 20th century will find Americans — and, indeed, 
people everywhere — forced to concentrate upon seven great quests. 
These are : the search for Security, for Living Room, for Water, for 
Climate, for Resources, for Industry, and for Knowledge itself. 

In every one of these areas, the sea is proving a crucial element — so 
crucial that it is difficult to escape the conclusion that the new age into 
which we are moving is not only the age of the atom, the electron, and 
space : it is also a new age of the sea. 

THE SEARCH FOR SECURITY 

Nuclear weapons, the rising tide of nationalism throughout the 
world, and the rapidly growing East-West battle for the mind of 



NEW AGE OF THE SEA — TEAGER 383 

man are putting an unprecedented premium on national security. 
At the same time, it is apparent that today, more than ever, strength 
is crucial from a psychological as well as from a physical standpoint. 

Since tlie channel to security through international comity and 
negotiation cannot be depended upon, either now or in the foreseeable 
future, a strong military posture is the alternative. There is very 
little disagreement about this. Wliat is strange is the fact that our 
technological revolution, while introducing radical new concepts of 
weapons and weapon systems, actually tends to accentuate the ancient 
role of the sea as a theater of military activity. 

One does not need to be a military expert to see that this is so. In 
fact, not being an expert has its advantages. For if one is not, it is 
possible to evaluate the meaning of our new technology without being 
overly influenced by tradition, pride, ambition, or economic security. 

To the nonmilitary expert, who is, however, familiar with the vari- 
ous military and civilian views concerning the employment of modern 
science in national defense, it is clear that current technolog}'' is mider- 
lining the necessity for mobility and secrecy of operational bases. And 
this is where the finger of logic points squarely to the sea. 

No doubt it is true, as many of our military men assert, that we 
are moving inevitably into a time of astropower. But it is equally 
true that for many years to come the most efficient operational bases 
for asserting such power will be located on earth. And even when 
bases in space become possible, their vulnerability from the standpoint 
of mobility and secrecy will scarcely be less than bases functioning on 
or below the surface of the sea. Paradoxically, the missile-space era 
itself seems destined to emphasize this salt-water utility. 

Since the refinement of the missile, target accuracy has become un- 
comfortably high. With the addition of the nuclear warhead, its 
threat obviously is a devastating one. As soon as geodetic surveys 
have been perfected and geographical locations are precisely known, 
as soon as missile production and servicing become simplified and re- 
liable, the risks we face will prove less and less tolerable and land 
bases more and more vulnerable. Even the so-called "hard" launch- 
ing sites — those constructed undergroimd — may find their effectiveness 
partially canceled, particularly if the enemy is capable of contaminat- 
ing the surrounding area with a hovering lid of deadly radiation or 
destructive chemical or biological agents. 

Mobility and secrecy, at this point in time, will cease to be marginal 
necessities. They will be absolute ones. They may be obtainable on 
land by such schemes as the mobile-transport Minuteman. They will 
also be easily and efficiently attained at sea. 

It appears likely, then, that an increasing percentage of U.S. deter- 
rent power will shift to the sea. This may include more than the 



384 AISTNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

submarine-Polaris-missile concept, which, for all its virtues, has cer- 
tain limitations as to communications, timing, and attack potential. 
It will almost certainly have to include a new concept of an extremely 
fast surface fleet capable of firing missiles accurately, shifting its 
base materially at a moment's notice, and capable of utilizing any 
patch of water as a launching site for any type of missile needed. The 
idea, which conceives of firing the missile from the surface of the 
water itself, requires pinpoint navigation and new missile technology 
rather than radical approaches to naval shipbuilding. In other words, 
it is new weapon handling technique that will be essential, not revo- 
lutionary types of ships. 

Wlien viewed through political and economic eyes, this extra re- 
liance on the sea assumes doubled import. Government officials and 
others well versed in international affairs and the economic facts of 
life are aware that the United States is not likely to keep military 
bases throughout the world forever. At the same time, such bases 
are an added liability (in the sense of being targets) when placed on 
American soil. 

They may be kept partially in the air or, someday, in space. But 
the sea is also looming as a likely locale, since it will have virtually 
all the advantages of foreign or sky-based launch sites, few of the dis- 
advantages, and seems to offer a more practical and generally cheaper 
way of doing the job. 

Thus it appears that the role of the Navy in the security picture, 
far from diminishing with the revolutions of our times, may become 
more comprehensive and conclusive than it has ever been — despite 
the many innovations and changes in seagoing missions, methods, and 
machines. 

SEARCH FOR LIVING ROOM 

Recognition of the growing population problem is now fairly wide- 
spread. During the 1950's, its warning was sounded frequently 
enough and the evidence became concrete enough to initiate serious 
thinking on the consequences of overpopulation. 

Still, and in spite of dire warnings from the sociologists, most of us 
tend to toss off the matter as something we cannot do anything about. 
Or else we persist in treating it as too remote to warrant doing some- 
thing about right now. 

Both attitudes seem fallacious. Certainly the second one is. To 
determine how much so, one need only glance at the United States. 
It required 300 years for the American population to reach the 1910 
level of 90 million persons. Yet in the past 50 years that number 
has doubled. It will double again before the turn of the century, 
unless the birth rate slackens or some disaster wipes out great segments 
of the population. 



NEW AGE OF THE SEA — YEAGER 385 

One of the most important aspects of the population explosion is 
the problem of living space — of sufficient room to move around in with 
some semblance of freedom and privacy. 

Interestingly enough, the evidence is that long before food or hous- 
ing shortages become really serious, the difficulties arising from 
cramped living will have reached a critical peak, a peak demanding 
dramatic measures for a solution. 

We have already begun to see the signs which are at once physical 
and psychological. Witness the mushrooming suburbs with their 
postage-stamp lots ; the crowded expressways ; the new traffic bottle- 
necks that materialize faster than old ones are dissolved; the smog 
blights ; the polluted rivers ; the disappearing trees and forest lands ; 
the crowded classrooms; the accelerating noise level; the increasing 
crime rates ; the high incidence of mental illness ; the diminishing art 
of neighborliness ; the self -enforced isolation of apartment dwellers ; 
the periodic adult fetish for "getting away from it all"; the year- 
round emphasis on keeping children organized ; the climbing divorce 
statistics; the courtroom dockets that are jammed with petty civil 
suits ; and so on. 

All these symptoms, in one way or another, stem at least in part 
from too many people living too close together. At the moment, the 
pressures creating the symptoms may not be sufficient to cause boiling. 
But imagine a doubling of the pressures. ^Vhat then ? 

The social scientists believe that if our heterogeneous civilization 
is to remain reasonably healthy, in bod}'^, mind, and spirit, it cannot 
afford to let itself be forced to live like ants. Men need space. This 
means that the population must somehow spread out as it grows 
instead of concentrating more and more. 

When a national park is forced to close its gates to 7,000 would-be 
campers during a single holiday weekend, when Congress must con- 
sider legislation to prohibit commercialization of the remaining 2 
percent of American wilderness land in order to preserve at least a 
small part of the country in its natural state — the imminence of the 
problem begins to sink in. 

Serious as is the situation, however, scientists do not believe solu- 
tions are impossible. They are depending on the sea and sea-related 
techniques to help find them. 

The prognosticated picture is for gradually accelerating migration 
from heavily populated countries to lightly populated ones. The 
influx will be toward Australia, New Zealand, Canada, Alaska, and 
South America. In fact, the move has already begun. And it is 
receiving its greatest push, at the moment, from nations whose people 
historically have been strongly attached to their native lands — the 
English, the Dutch, the Danes, the French, the Belgians, even Ameri- 



386 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

cans. Despite political obstacles to free migration, it is believed that 
such trends will quadruple before the turn of the century. Our 
shrinking globe and the resultant style of international living, marry- 
ing, and working is bound to create a reciprocity of movement which 
would be quite unbelievable to the citizen of 1920 or even 1950. If 
Western culture should rub off on the Soviets faster than the reverse, 
so that Eussian barriers to general intercourse are lowered, this trend 
may also find its way into northern Eurasia. 

An equal, and perhaps earlier, phenomenon arising from the press 
of population along the world's seaboards will be the jump to island 
living. Presently there are thousands of coastal islands which are 
deserted or only sparsely inhabited. They offer an attractive alterna- 
tive to crowded mainland living, and the forecasters are convinced 
that in the decades ahead these islands will turn into much sought- 
after real estate. 

A third result of the spreading out of the population is expected 
to be a migration into land areas within the boundaries of the home- 
land which at present are only margmally desirable or convenient. 
This movement should be made feasible by teclmological innovations 
already in process and on the verge of practical utilization. 

The effect of these trends on sea-related activities, and vice versa, 
will be marked. 

With the swift surge toward world travel which is expected to be 
crucial within 25 years, comes the need for additional sources of rapid, 
long-range transportation. Air travel has expanded to meet this 
requirement, but air lanes are by no means likely to be able to handle 
the needs of the future. Relatively speaking, the air is already more 
crowded than the sea and its problems of adequate termini are more 
difficult. 

This means a much revitalized demand for ocean travel and for 
new types of fast, oceangoing transports, and there is little doubt that 
when the demand is great enough such craft will be made available. 
We cannot see exactly how tomorrow's sailors will navigate, but 
we can guess that the naval architects and oceanographers will have 
hydrofoil craft sailing accurately predicted currents at speeds here- 
tofore reserved for land vehicles. As the techniques grow, they will, 
in turn, stimulate their own use. 

Potential island dwellers who are currently discouraged by the 
inaccessibility of remote coastal areas will find that smaller versions 
of these same craft would make an island home feasible and commut- 
ing easy. Or the air-cushion vehicle, which rides a few inches or feet 
above the surface of the water, may be used. Some of the latter are 
presently in ferry service between English Channel ports. With re- 
finement and simplification, this vehicle, too, has significance for ex- 



NEW AGE OF THE SEA — YEAGER 387 

tensive salt-water transportation, especially to and from coastal 
islands or bay and inlet areas, and upon the world's rivers. 

In company with tlie fast-developing fuel cell, which may permit 
a reliable source of localized, domestic power, and with the conversion 
of salt water to fresh water, these oncoming sea-transport methods 
will make island living not only reasonable but highly desirable. 

The need for removing large parts of the presently urbanized pop- 
ulation into the hinterlands likewise depends upon independent power 
sources, fresh water, and a transportation system which does not re- 
quire expensive (and soil destructive) highways. Here again the 
sea promises a large part of the solution — the fresh-water, and a 
land adaptation of the hovercraft, or ground-effect machine, evolved 
from techniques developed through use on ocean areas. 

The search for living room thus conjures iip a future network of 
ocean-current corridors, seagoing traffic, and sea-dependent facets of 
living which the most confirmed old sea dogs of yesterday could 
scarcely have visualized. 

THE SEARCH FOR WATER 

The years 1954-57 were particularly notable as hurricane years 
for the east and gulf coasts of the United States. There were many 
such disturbances, and the American public was presented with dis- 
tressing facts and figures based on damage caused by such wayward 
whirlwinds as Hurricanes Connie, Hazel, and Carol. 

Notwithstanding the tragedy and damage caused by these and sim- 
ilar storms, they were accompanied by a completely unpublicized but 
highly valuable asset — namely, relieving the water crisis of a large 
and parched section of tlie Nation. 

This is one blessing, at least, inherent in the hurricane during earth's 
current dry cycle, 1951-62. As far as the United States is con- 
cerned, the torrential rains produced by the hurricane which moves 
inland have recently rescued more crops than they have destroyed 
and, while in the process of tearing down beach resorts and causing 
floods, they have nonetheless granted reprieves to thirsty agricultural 
industries and well-dr}^ communities from Miami to Bangor. 

The situation illustrates the growing fresh-water shortage which, 
in a few short years, promises to become acute not only in traditionally 
arid lands but also in such water-blessed areas as the United States, 
Europe, and western Russia. 

More than 200 major communities of the United States face water 
shortages, and all but a handful of States are experiencing a serious 
water problem in one form or another. The Middle East, Holland, 
Spain, Italy, South Africa, Israel, the West Indies, and a number of 
South American countries are worse off. 



388 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

Thus the stage is set for an acute shortage of man's most precious 
commodity. The precariousness of the situation is being augmented, 
of course, by the increasing population, the many new domestic uses 
to which water is being put, the rising use of irrigation and industrial 
water, the pollution of fresh-water streams and rivers, and a general 
failure to conserve water. 

Very likely the world will get by the present 11-year dry cycle, which 
is scheduled to merge into a wet decade this year (1961), without too 
much suffering. And since the wet cycle may iim as much as 7 to 12 
percent above normal rainfall, the evolution of fresh-water problems 
from 1962 to 1973 may be somewhat retarded. But beginning with the 
dry cycle of 1973, when the needs of a much larger population will have 
to be met, the availability and use of fresh water is expected to take 
its place among the world's crucial issues — or so the water engineers 
predict — unless substantial new sources of fresh water are imcovered. 

Education of water users, conservation, and rigidly enforced anti- 
pollution laws will aid a great deal in alleviating the situation. As- 
suming, however, that standards of living will not be allowed to slip 
and that the population will continue to increase, the experts prophesy 
that nothing offers a permanent solution to future shortages except 
large new sources of water. This means the conversion of sea water 
to fresh water. 

Conversion, of course, is nothing new to sailormen who have been 
doing it aboard ship for many decades. (Large aircraft carriers today 
convert salt water at a rate of 200,000 gallons per day.) But it is quite 
another matter to convert salt water to fresh water when the method 
used must be made to serve the world's millions. 

Progress is being made by a number of methods, mainly through a 
variety of distillation techniques, solar energy, electrodialysis, and 
freezing, chemical, and electrical conversion. At present the largest 
plants converting saline water are located in South Africa, the Persian 
Gulf, the West Indies, Venezuela, Argentina, Ecuador, Greenland, 
Italy, and, in the United States, California a,nd Pennsylvania. They 
convert anywhere from 100,000 gallons per day to 3.5 million gallons 
per day, at a cost of from $1.74 to $4 per thousand gallons. This 
compares with American municipal water rates which range from 25 
to 40 cents per thousand gallons — but which do not reflect the rising 
costs of developing new sources of fresh water by conventional means. 

When conversion costs drop to around 35 cents per thousand gallons, 
ocean or bay water will become a major source of the world's fresh- 
water supply. The Dutch are already operating electrodialysis-mem- 
brane plants which come close to 50 cents when brackish water (less 
than a third the salinity of sea water) is used. It is interesting that 
this is the price paid by Dallas, Tex., residents for a single gallon of 



NEW AGE OF THE SEA — YEAGER 389 

extra fresh water during the drought of 1957 — twice what they paid 
for gasoline. 

The U.S. Government, through the Interior Department's Office of 
Saline Water, is subsidizing research in this area at a rate of between 
$1 and $3 million a year. Seven States — California, New Mexico, 
Arizona, Texas, Florida, North Carolina, and South Dakota — are also 
spending tax money for the purpose. Compared to other government 
endeavors, however, the total amount is negligible — so far. 

The average American family uses 550 gallons of fresh water a day, 
the average apartment building 50,000 gallons a day, hospitals 50,000 
to 100,000 gallons per day, large office buildings 120,000 gallons and up. 
Total water use in the United States has increased from 40 billion 
gallons a day in 1900 to 323 billion gallons in 1960, and will go to 597 
billion gallons by 1980. Moreover, when we consider that the maxi- 
mum dependable supply of natural fresh water in the United States, 
if it were all captured, is 515 billion gallons daily — then we begin to 
see the urgent need for new water resources. 

As the water engineers pomt out, we must look once again to the sea. 

THE SEARCH FOR CLIMATE 

The slight knowledge which humans have of weather forces can be 
seen from the fact that at present we do not even know exactly how 
rain begins. Learning to predict weather with great accuracy and to 
modify it is something which geological forecasters take to be a 
"must" in the years ahead. In this way we may be able to slow down 
the soil erosion of arable land — that "geological inevitability which 
man can only hasten or postpone." Like the fresh-water situation, 
increased human demands upon the soil are creating real difficulties. 

The Russian steppes of Kazakhstan are providing the world with a 
great contemporary dust bowl, reminiscent of that of the middle 
1930's, when dust from the Great Plains stretched from Texas to 
Saskatchewan. Poor land-cultivation policies, drought, and strong 
easterly winds have combined to produce the trials of southern Russia. 
So great is the extent of this disturbance that the dust cloud has been 
identified in photographs taken by American weather satellites at 
altitudes of 400 miles. 

Of course, wind erosion is only one of the processes whereby the 
earth's arable land is diminishing and the deserts increasing ; erosion 
by water also sweeps away the soil. But insofar as the dust bowl 
of the Soviet steppes has diminished food resources at a time when 
the number of mouths to feed is increasing rapidly, it is a rather 
ominous indication of more serious troubles to come. 

How long, the geologists inquire, can the world afford floods and 
dust bowls? The answer, obviously, is not much longer. Not, at 



390 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

least, if we expect to avoid famine, pestilence, and the threat of an 
exhausted soil at a time when we can least afford it. 

Doing something about understanding and controlling (to a degree) 
the climate is apt to prove a far more difficult task than easing the 
shortage of fresh water. It will involve a tremendous amount of 
research. But again that research apparently begins and ends with 
the sea. 

Meteorologists know that the sea is the breeding ground for the two 
great forces which contribute most to soil erosion — wind and rainfall. 
But they do not yet have enough understanding of the interplay of 
all the various elements contributing to weather to know why the 
earth's climate is as it is — or even to predict the long-range trends 
our climate may be taking. Until they do have a very good under- 
standing of how and why the forces of climate behave, man seems 
destined to remain relatively ineffective in his efforts to slow down 
the present all too rapid erosion of his fertile world. 

No doubt there is much that can be done with the land itself. The 
development of contour farming, for instance, has proved greatly 
beneficial. Crop rotation, soil chemistry, reforestation, flood control 
and the like are all highly useful practices. But even they have 
limitations for the long haul and can scarcely be compared to the 
benefits which might arise from an ability to create or to modify 
climate. 

While some scientists have grave doubts that such ability will ever 
exist, others who combine meteorology with oceanography are now 
inclined to believe that these doubts themselves stem from an insuffi- 
cient concept of how much information remains to be uncovered — how 
little we really know of the character and forces of the sea and how 
inclusive the influence of the sea is upon clunate. They believe that 
the two sciences cannot be separated and that the true understanding 
of climate must wait upon a true understanding of the sea, which 
handles the greater part of earth's total "heat budget." 

Research into the mysteries of the ocean and its operation is by 
no means proceeding fast enough to suit the world's oceanographers, 
but it has picked up startlingly in the past few years and gives promise 
of accelerating still more. The United States has some 1,600 scien- 
tists now pursuing this endeavor, and its annual Federal expenditures 
of about $25 million are expected to be stepped up to $85 million 
during the 1960's. Other countries, notably England, Norway, Italy, 
Denmark, and the Soviet Union, are similarly increasing their sea 
study efforts. 

Not all of this effort, nor even the major part of it, is being under- 
taken with the benefits of climatology in mind. Nevertheless, those 
benefits may be the greatest by far to come out of the seagoing labo- 
ratories now plying the oceans of the world. 



Smithsonian Report. 1961. — Yeager 



Plate 1 




Launching Solid Propellant Rockets From the Sea 
Handling and logistics requirements for such rockets are simple and inexpensive, and 
mobility is unlimited over the surfaces of the oceans. Furthermore, the launching pad 
environment costs nothing, cannot be destroyed, and hides the missile firing apparatus 
from would-be attackers. 



Smithsonian Report, 1961. — Yeager 



> 



f>» ^^ 



/ 



% 




1. Will Future Island Dwellers Commute in Hydrofoils? 
These speedy craft would make living in presently isolated insular regions feasible. With 
a cheap, local supply of power and fresh water, islands would become highly desirable 
residential areas. 



Rfts-.;-- 




2. A l\I^M\^ J h l>KM| (III,, nil. I Mj-pA.sbl.M.l K l\l\IR I'xiAl MeTEOR 

Recognizing the need for improved water transportation systems, the Soviets already have 
fast passenger hydrofoils in operation on their lakes and rivers. 



Smithsonian Report, 1961. — Yeager 



PLATE 3 




1. Pilot Plant for Co.w ertixg Ska Water to Presh 
Assembled for sea site testing at Wrightsville Beach, X.C., this plant uses the vacuum- 
freezing method. Its capacity is L\000 gallons per da)'. 




2. Progress in Oceanography Has Been Made; It Must Be Increased 
The bathyscaph Trieste is shown preparing to dive off the Island of Panza in the Tyrrhenian 
Sea. She was purchased by the U.S. Navy, and made a record dive of 35,800 feet off 
Guam in 1960. 



NEW AGE OF THE SEA — YEAGER 391 

THE SEARCH FOR RESOURCES 

Running parallel with the patent needs for fresh water and produc- 
tive soil is the less obvious but worldwide demand for new supplies 
of all resources. Among the most needed for the future, according 
to conservation engineers, are biological, mineral, and energy re- 
sources. In each category the sea offers particular hope for efficient 
capture and use. Moreover, the sea has as yet hardly been tai^ped 
as a supplier. 

Biologically, the sea could be made to yield a Ihnitless amount of 
protein enrichment for the human diet. Dr. Edward Wenk, a marine 
scientist who serves as executive secretary to the Federal Council 
for Science and Technology, points out that the sea "is filled with rich 
fauna and flora drifting at the surface, or in layers at intermediate 
depths; there are meadows of plants and swarms of large and small 
animals grazing or preying upon one another." He adds that only a 
very few of the 20,000 species of fish are caught and fewer still used, 
that little is actually known about fishing stocks, rhythmical seasonal 
changes and their sporadic fluctuation, but that the advent of such 
information will put a new face upon fishing. Fishing will then 
lose its hunting characteristics and assume those of cultivation. De- 
velopment of important plants with life-stimulating properties may 
be handled the same way. 

As far as minerals are concerned, the ocean floors have recently 
been found to contain high concentrations of manganese, cobalt, nickel, 
iron, and copper. But the potentially greater source of mineral supply 
rests in the sea water itself. Ordinary sea water is now known to 
contain 41 elements. Many of these (aside from chlorine and sodium) 
are in relatively large quantities — such as magnesium, sulfur, cal- 
cium, potassium, bromine, boron, carbon, strontimn, silicon, and fluo- 
rine. Others, far less abundant, nevertheless are minerals which are 
becoming critical for modern scientific purposes — cesium (for plasma 
engines), uranium (for atomic energy), molybdenum (for heat-re- 
sistant alloys), and the like. 

To date we have learned to extract only bromine and magnesium 
from sea water on a practical basis. But we know that plants extract 
potassium from the sea and animals like the octopus extract a copper 
compound for use in their blood as an oxygen carrier. So the processes 
for "mining" the sea undoubtedly exist. When they are uncovered, 
the world should have an unexcelled new natural supply of vital 
mineral resources. 

Perhaps the most attractive side of the sea from a resources stand- 
point, however, is its potential as a source of energy — energy which 
can be tapped without depleting some limited type of fuel resource 
such as coal or oil. 

625325—62 26 



392 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

A July 1, 1960, report of the House Committee on Science and 
Astronautics states : 

The greatest source of energy in the sea lies in the water itself. Hydrogen, 
one of the elements in water and thus in enormous abundance in the oceans, may 
be considered the fuel from which energy may be someday derived, imitating 
the natural process of nuclear fusion that occurs on the sun. Should current 
research efforts succeed, man would have a virtually inexhaustible store of 
energy, but the quest is long and arduous. 

Still another possible source of energy from the sea has been proposed by taking 
advantage of the difference in surface and bottom temperature. It has been 
said that almost 35,000 times tlie existing annual energy consumption of the 
world is delivered annually to the earth in the form of solar radiation and since 
most of the earth's surface is covered by ocean, a major portion of solar energy 
is absorbed by the sea. The temperature at depths below which sunlight does 
not penetrate, on the order of 1,200 feet, is ordinarily around 40° F. In the 
tropics, surface temperatures of 80° to 90° are common. Theoretically, this 
temperature difference could be utilized to drive a properly designed turbine, 
but it would operate at low thermal efficiency because the temperature differences 
are low. Quite obviously the amounts of energy so extracted are unlimited. The 
major question is whether such systems are economically attractive. 

Finally, there is the possibility of extraction of power from the twice daily 
rise and fall of the tides — such as has been proposed many years ago for Pas- 
samaquoddy. It is natural that man should look for means of harnessing some 
of the power of the tides for his own benefit, and small tide mills have been 
operated in a few suitable localities for centuries. Many plans for tidal power 
stations such as the Severn Barrage scheme have been drawn up, but only one 
project has so far reached the construction stage. This is the French scheme 
for the Ranee Estuary in the Bay of St. Malo which is designed to have a capacity 
of 340 megawatts and is due to be completed in 19G0. The main difficulty in the 
development of tidal power is that, even with large tidal ranges, the hydraulic 
head available is comparatively small and large areas of tidal water would have 
to be enclosed at high capital cost. 

While it should be noted that each po.ssibility is accompanied by 
some reservation, it should also be noted that technological problems 
just about as difficult and expensive have been solved cleanly in the 
past 10 or 15 years. When the need becomes great enough — and that 
time is not far away — there seems little doubt that ways will be found 
to pull out and transmit the sea's restless, endless energy in the form 
of useful work. 

THE SEARCH FOR INDUSTRY 

For the American system of private enterprise, the need for new 
industry in the years ahead assumes marked importance, not only in 
order to maintain a high level of consumer goods and a growing 
economy, but as a means of employment for the rising population. 

Exploitation of the oceans rates far up on the list of genuine new 
industrial possibilities. A recent issue of Dun's Review, for example, 
has cited the oceans as "industry's next frontier" and comments: 



NEW AGP: of the sea — YEAGER 393 

As flights into space become routine in the next decade, the nation may turn 
in another direction for the next great research frontier — and new raulti-billiou- 
dollar marketing opportunities. Close at hand, but still largelj' out of reach, the 
depths of earth's oceans are in many ways more a mystery than outer space. 
The coming drive to plumb the ocean's secrets will mean a great new source of 
profits for industry. As the navies of the world slowly submerge, demand for 
equipment that can function under water will burge(tn. As the industrial nations 
exhaust many of the natural resources of the laud surface, submarine miners 
will increasingly exploit the incredible mineral wealth of the oceans, and as the 
world's population expands beyond the capacity of arable land to feed it, the sea 
will become a critically important source of edible flora and fauna. , . . Although 
the objective of the oceanographers is more scientific knowledge of the ocean 
and the ocean floor, commercial benefits are sure to follow. Here is one example : 
leading oceanographers are convinced that underwater telephone cable breaks are 
the result of ocean bottom landslides. If and when oceanographers are able to 
predict where such displacements of bottom soil will take place, the telephone 
companies will be able to avoid multi-million-dollar repair bills by laying cables 
elsewhere or by other methods. . . . When all the current activity connected 
with the oceans is evaluated, the dimensions of present and potential market 
opi)ortunities look really impressive. 

But the industrial outlook for the sea eiiconipasses far more terri- 
tory than that suggested above. Besides a trend to improved and 
more efficient cable laying, a series of other submarine activities are 
beginning to take place — undersea pipelines, such as the projected 
crossing of the Mediterranean from North Africa to Spain for pump- 
ing gas and oil ; undersea tunnels, such as the 32-mile Dover-to-Calais 
project beneath the English Channel; offshore mining, such as the 
new sulphur operations in the Gulf of Mexico; the development of 
robot equipment for undersea operations, such as the Remote Under- 
water Manipulator which can act as the hand of man on the ocean 
floor through a 5-mile coaxial cable. 

Then there is the ultimate usefulness of the oceans and coastal areas 
as places of storage. The seas have been used for generations, of 
course, as a dumping ground for contin.ental wastes. But the storage 
demands of the future will be far more sophisticated. One already 
showing urgency is the storage of unwanted radioactive byproducts 
of atomic energy. Low-level wastes are presently being dispersed in 
the sea. High-level wastes cannot be stored there, at least not until 
much more is known about the inner workings of the sea itself and 
ways are found to contain the material in a manner which permits 
radioactive dissipation over long periods of time without contaminat- 
ing the water. 

These very developments, however, as they crystallize, promise a 
revolutionary shift to sea storage for other commodities and pur- 
poses — especially for those which need to be maintained in cool, stable 
temperatures and/or unexposed to oxygen. As land becomes ever more 
scarce and the costs of using it for storage less feasible, it will not be 



394 ANNUAL RF^PORT SMITH.SONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

surprising if government and commerce alike begin charting off seg- 
ments of ocean area for this purpose. 

Other potential industrial uses allied to the sea can be identified 
even now. Hydroponic farming — growing plants and vegetables in 
water containing the essential mineral nutrient salts, rather than in 
soil — is in its infancy. But there are those who foresee that this 
endeavor will necessarily become a very large one and tliat research 
into the qualitative transformation and manipulation of sea water will 
make it possible. Another important industry is evolving, based on 
supplying equipment needed by the world's one million skin divers, 
plus that of the salvage industry which has been tremendously stimu- 
lated by new skin-diving techniques. This, too, is a trend likely to 
accelerate on both business and pleasure bases. 

Of one thing we can be sure. As research into the sea and sea-re- 
lated activities increases, industrial uses will be found for it which 
today we cannot visualize. And new professions, unconjectured as of 
now, are bound to grow with these new industries. 

THE SEARCH FOR KNOWLEDGE 

Wlien the United States inaugurated its space exploration program 
in March 1958, the President's science advisers issued a statement in 
which they observed : 

Scientific research has never been amendable to rigorous cost accounting in 
advance. Nor, for that matter, has exploration of any sort. But if we have 
learned one lesson, it is that research and exploration have a remarkable way 
of paying off — quite apart from the fact that they demonstrate that man is alive 
and insatiably curious. And we all feel richer for knowing what explorers and 
scientists have learned about the universe in which we live. 

Moreover, as technology continues to take over and the hours of 
the world's working day shorten, people must have purposeful and 
creative things to do. The burgeoning quest for knowledge is ex- 
pected to fill a large part of this inchoate vacuum. 

Perhaps the most immediate target of the knowledge seekers will 
be earth itself, about which so much remains to be learned. A true 
understanding of our own planet, its origin, composition, and what 
makes it tick, will be one of the first big steps toward understanding 
the universe. This, at least, is the allegation of the scientists, who 
add that the key to better information about the earth very probably 
lies with the sea. 

"Yet the sea," says the House Committee on Science and Astronau- 
tics, "which represents 71 percent of the earth's surface, is mostly 
unexplored. Scientific information is meager concerning the physical 
and chemical properties of oceans and their currents, the biological 
and mineral resources of, in, and under the sea, the relationship of the 



NEW AGE OF THE SEA — YE AGE R 395 

oceans to weather and climate. Even knowledge about the origins of 
the oceans themselves, their evolution and the changes which may be 
expected are little known and understood." 

A long-held desire of geologists all over the world has been access 
to earth's interior — to that area below the crust. The U.S.-proposed 
Project Mohole,^ w^hich contemplates ocean drilling, may provide it. 
This program gets its name from the Mohorovicic discontinuity which 
represents the interface between the familiar crust and the as yet 
unseen mantle. Because what lies beneath the earth's crust, 7 to 15 
miles from the surface, is of such vital importance to the understand- 
ing of the origin and geophysical processes of the earth. Project 
Mohole is designed to drill through the crust into the mantle. 

The reason for the approach through the sea is simple. Thus far 
the deepest successfiTl drilling [for oil] has been limited to about 
26,000 feet, far short of the 100,000 feet at which discontinuity is 
estimated to lie below the surface of continental masses. In the 
oceans, however, the discontinuity rises to within 15,000 feet of the 
ocean bed. It is thus proposed to undertake the drilling at sea so 
as to reduce by a significant amount the depth of hole required. 

The answers to come from these and other phases of the growing 
drive toward ocean sciences will possibly provide us with the first 
basically accurate understanding of the globe on which we live. What 
such understanding will mean in terms of material and economic 
effect, or in terms of mental and physical effect, can only be surmised. 
It will not be insignificant. 

Each of the searches discussed in the foregoing contributes to the 
others and each, in some degree, is dependent on the others. Taken as 
a group, however, and in light of their common denominator, they 
would seem to herald a coming Age of the Sea second to none in 
earth's history. 

3 See the following article In this Report. — Editor. 



Drilling Beneath the Deep Sea' 



By William E. Benson 

Program Director for Earth Sciences 
National Science Foundation 



[With 4 plates] 



Two miles below the surface of the Pacific Ocean off the w est coast 
of Mexico, a drill bit studded with diamonds was gently eased inch by 
inch into the bottom ooze. Jets of water coming down the drill pipe 
tlien began to wash the bit farther into the mud. One of the most 
notable modern experiments in oceanography and geophysics was 
underway. 

The experiment, part of Project Mohole, achieved important results 
through a combination of two factore — a scientific impetus bordering 
on the visionary, and imaginative engineering concepts that pushed to 
its limits today's teclinology. 

Attached to 11,700 feet of pipe dangling from a drilling derrick 
mounted on a ship, the bit was the tip of an 85-ton probe wielded by 
scientists intent on unlocking some of the history that is recorded in 
the sediment that has been collecting on the bottom of the oceans 
for millions of years. 

At the base of the steel tower, scientists and veteran petrolemn 
drillers anxiously watched gages and recording pens trace the shakes 
and twists of the pipe as, in high winds and heavy seas, the drilling 
ship CUSS I held its position w^ith steering motors. 

For the scientists, the drilling operation was part of the first at- 
tempt to retrieve samples of the earth's crust at appreciable deptlis 
beneath the floor of the ocean basin. Their success has added a com- 
pletely new technique to the study of the oceans of the world. 

For the engineei*s and drilling personnel who had assembled the 
longest drilling pipe ever suspended from a ship, the operation was 
the world's first deep-sea drilling expedition. Furthermore, a drilling 
crew was working for tlie first time aboard an unmoored ship, and 
in water 40 times deeper than in the usual offshore operation. 



^ Reprinted by permission from Sperryscope, Sperry Rand Corp., vol. 15, No. 10, 1961. 

397 



398 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

As they watched the uncoiling ink lines and the quivering gages, 
the drillers were learning what takes place when more than 2 miles 
of pipe is hung in water, what effects the ship's pitch and roll produce, 
and how much vibration is set up by ocean currents and pipe rota- 
tion. As one remarked, "This is like. hanging a piece of spaghetti 
from a 12th-floor window to the sidewalk, and then trying to drill 
a hole with it." 

The drilling was the first at-sea experiment for Project Mohole, a 
5- to 10-year nationally funded effort to drill through (ho earth's 
crust to sample its interior, the largest and least-known area on earth. 
Mohole is supported by the National Science Foundation and is a 
combined effort of the Nation's leading scientists and engineers work- 
ing through the AMSOC Coimnittee, organized in 1958, and the Na- 
tional Academy of Sciences-National Research Council. 

The project takes its name from Andrija Mohorovicic, a seismol- 
ogist born in Croatia in 1857, who determined from earthquake waves 
the existence of a seismic discontinuity. This discontinuity was later 
shown to be worldwide and has been accepted by most geologists as 
the boundary between the crust of the earth and its denser interior 
mantle. The discontinuity was named after its discoverer and, as is 
the wont of Americans, is commonly abbreviated to "Moho," 

Drilling in the deep ocean long was regarded as impossible because 
of the fundamental limitations of existing methods and materials. 
It was only with the comparatively recent development and use of 
drilling ships by the petroleum industry, in coastal waters off Cali- 
fornia, that deep-water drilling could be considered seriously. 

Of all ships developed for offshore work, the most suitable to the 
purposes of deep-water experimental drilling was the CUSS /, a 260- 
foot converted Navy freight barge, owned by the Global Marine Ex- 
ploration Co., Los Angeles. Deriving its name from its original 
joint owners, the Continental, Union, Superior, and Shell oil compa- 
nies, the ship represented a multimillion dollar teclinological develop- 
ment by the petroleum industry. 

The 3-year theoretical work of the AMSOC Committee on the 
problem of deep-sea drilling represented a bold attack. By late 1960, 
the work had reached the point at which it was necessary to test their 
concepts at sea. These concepts were based on existing drilling 
technology but depended upon the solution of new problems such as 
keeping an unanchored vessel stationary over the drill site, enabling 
the ship's pilot to determine accurately the ship's position in relation 
to the hole, and drilling with an extremely long drill string without 
casing. 

The first problem, that of positioning the ship, was solved by em- 
ploying four outboard motors, powered by 200-horsepower diesel 



Smithsonian Report, 1 96 1. — Benson 



Plate 1 




Smithsonian Report, 1961. — Benson 



Plate 2 




^ s s 

6'Z, t 



cc XI 



S & 




Smithsonian Report. 1961. — Be 



PLATE 3 




1. Controls of integrated steering system for CUSS I. System was designed by AMSOC 
engineer Robert Taggart. It permitted four outboard engines to be operated simul- 
taneously, regulating their speed and direction of thrust from single "joystick" on console. 




2. The 8}^-inch, ^8,000 diamond drill bit used in the experimental drilling program for 
Project Mohole shown aboard the CUSS I. 



Smithsonian Report, 1961— Benson 



PLATE 4 




Enlarged view of cut and polished section of a 1-inch core of glassy basalt recovered from 
near the top of the second layer of the oceanic crust, about 575 feet below the ocean floor 
under 11,700 feet of water, off Guadalupe Island, April 1961. (Photograph by U.S. 
Geological Survey.) 



DRILLING BENEATH THE SEA — BENSON 399 

engines, and capable of delivering thrust in any direction. These 
units, known as "Harbormasters," were mounted fore and aft and on 
both sides of the ship. The amount and direction of thrust of each 
engine were controlled at the pilot's console with a single lever re- 
sembling an aircraft joystick. The engines and steering system 
proved capable of holding the ship withm its own length of a position 
in 12- foot waves and a 25-knot wmd. 

The second problem, that of determinmg the sliip's position relative 
to the hole, was overcome by using a unique taut-line, deep-moored 
buoy system, together with sonar and radar, and a Sperry Mark 14 
Gyro-Compass. 

The AMSOC staff evolved the design of the 6-foot aluminum buoys 
in the shape of an oblate spheroid (elliptical viewed from the side, 
round viewed from above). These were placed about the drill site, 
anchored to the bottom, with, the buoys about 100 feet below the sur- 
face of the water. Their special shape reduced their resistance to 
ocean currents and enabled them to remain moored almost directly 
over their anchors. Mounted on the buoys were sonar transponders 
that, when triggered on another frequency from the ship, sent back a 
signal, giving a sonar screen picture of the buoy pattern relative to 
the ship. Eadar also scanned surface buoys that were secured to the 
deep-moored buoys. These devices, together with visual sightings of 
the surface buoys, gave the pilot his relative bearings. The ship's 
heading was maintained by reference to the Sperry Gyro-Compass 
repeaters on the bridge. 

The third problem, that of the forces at work on the drill pipe, was 
worked out on paper for a variety of conditions by using a model. 
On the basis of the calculations, two sets of specially tapered drill 
pipes were ordered. One was a spare in the event that the other was 
dropped, or, if the doubters proved to be right, the pipe wound itself 
up like a corkscrew and snapped. In the course of the actual opera- 
tion, the drill string proved to be the least troublesome component of 
the system. 

WHY MOHOLE? 

With all the attendant problems, why drill a Mohole at sea? The 
answer is simple. 

Beneath continents, the average depth to the Moho — ^the thickness 
of the crust — is about 20 miles ; beneath the ocean, only about 5 miles.^ 
A hole drilled from land, therefore, w^ould have to extend about 20 
miles in order to reach the Moho, and the deepest hole yet drilled goes 
down only about 5 miles. But in some places in the ocean the crust is 



° Geologists regard the continents as thick blocks of relatively light, or granitic, rock, 
"floating" upon the far denser supporting rock of the mantle. The rock of the oceanic 
crust, however, is relatively thin and dense. 

625325—62 27 



400 



ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 



TAUT-LINE BUOY SYSTEM FOR EXPERIMENTAL DRILLING PROGRAM 

^^— i RADAR REFLECTOR 




SURFACE BUOY (libe-gloss covered innerlubo) 



ELASTIC SHOCK CORDS (3) 

1/16" GALVANIZED STEEL STRAND 

(to raise ond lower transponder) 

7/32" GALVANIZED STEEL STRAND 

(min. B. S. 7,000 lbs,, 19 strands) 



SONAR TRANSPONDER (sonar system) 



DEEP BUOY (oluminum elliptical 

dished heads, wt. in air 630 lbs.) 



THREELEG BRIDLE 



7/32" GALVANIZED STEEL STRAND 



CHAFING CHAIN (6 length) 



ANCHOR (cast concrete, abo 
wt. in air 4,150 lbs.) 



OCEAN BOTTOM 



Figure 1. 



thinner than its average 5 miles, and the total distance from the sur- 
face to the Moho is only about 6 miles, 3 miles of which is water. If a 
drill string could be made 20 percent longer than that of the record 
hole on land, and if the drilling could be accomplished from a ship, 
the eventual Mohole seems possible at sea. The 20-mile depth, of 
course, ruled out a boring on land. 

Before an experimental drilling program at La Jolla, Calif., in 
3,000 feet of water that preceded the deep-water experiment, oceanog- 
raphers had reached no farther than 75 feet below the bottom of the 



DRILLING BENEATH THE SEA — BENSON 401 

sea, using the standard piston coring apparatus lowered on a wire 
line. Not only did the new drilling teclinique produce the first deep 
cores, or cylindrical samples, of the deep ocean bottom, but it also 
sampled the mysterious "second layer" of the oceanic crust, hitherto 
studied only by seismic means. Findings proved that at least the 
top of the layer at the site of the drillmg was basalt, a hard rock 
formed by the solidification of lava. 

The significance of this discovery has only begiin to be debated by 
the geophysicists and marine geologists. They are, for example, 
puzzled by the fact that the sediment layer is not deep enough for the 
amount of sediment estimated to have been deposited from the begin- 
ning of the oceans. The discovery that the top of the second layer is 
basalt could mean that the basalt, at 560 feet at the site, underlies 
only part of the total depth of sediment and that earlier sediment 
records lie still deeper. Conversely, it is argued that since the layer 
is basalt, it could be the beginning of a very deep layer of hard rock. 
This would mean that the hoped-for earlier sediments, with their 
evidences of the formation of the oceans, somehow have been lost. 

WHAT CAN BE LEARNED? 

Wliat can be learned from the oceanic sediments ? Today, at more 
than a dozen laboratories around the country, scientists are analyzing 
the bits and pieces of evidence resulting from the operation. First, 
there are the geophysical logs, the records obtained by lowering instru- 
ments down the various holes. Then, there are the cores themselves, 
the sections of ooze and rock bitten out of the hole by a specially 
designed coring apparatus. From these and from subsequent tests 
will come facts that will be worked into existing hypotheses that try 
to explain what the ocean basins are like, how they were formed, and 
how old they are. New facts may force a revision of some hypotheses, 
or their rejection. In other cases, the evidence may link with other 
facts, clarify concepts, or point new directions. In addition, there 
is always the potential of any basic research — discovery of the 
unexpected. 

Within the sedimentary layers will be found many new pages of 
the history of the earth and the oceans. Mohole scientists at sea re- 
ported finding fossil evidence of a flowering of sea life roughly 25 
million years ago in the Guadalupe Island area. More than 100 feet of 
nearly continuous core of the deep ocean ooze showed that sea life in 
the area was prolific for about seven million years; by comparison the 
area is now an oceanic desert. The upper 500 feet of sediment was 
determined to be of late Miocene Age in the geologic time scale by 
correlating fossils with similar ones of known age fomid m continental 
rocks. 



402 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

The geophysical logging hole reached a total depth of 576 feet, and 
penetrated to 20 feet within the basaltic layer. Geophones and seismic 
wave detectors were lowered into the hole to measure the velocity of 
sound in the deep rocks and to redetermine the thickness of the various 
layers beneath the reach of the drill. Preliminary analysis of the 
reading indicates that sound waves penetrate the soft sediment at a 
rate of 1.69 kilometers per second, a rate considerably less than the 
value generally assumed by seismologists. If this low velocity gener- 
ally exists, oceanographic sediments could be thinner than has hereto- 
fore been supposed. 

The geophysical logs also measured the heat flow coming through the 
layers of the earth beneath the ocean. These measurements provided 
improved scientific estimates of the earth's internal temperature. 
Readings off Guadalupe Island at 500 feet below the ocean floor showed 
a somewhat higher heat flow than was expected on the basis of earlier 
bottom measurements. The significance of this is not yet understood, 
but it is interesting in view of the fact that, while the heat flow through 
the ocean floor is less than that measured on land, it is still far too high 
to satisfy some theoretical considerations. According to present 
theories, heat flow through the oceans should be less than has been 
observed. 

Most of the continental heat flow from within the earth derives from 
radioactive elements in granitic rocks. But the rocks thought to com- 
pose the oceanic crusts are supposedly low in radioactive material. 
Scientists believe, therefore, that there must be a suboceanic heat 
source other than the crust. There are many suggested explanations 
including an unsuspected radioactive heat source high in the mantle, 
or convection currents within the mantle. 

A more exact understanding of suboceanic heat flow will also pro- 
vide new information that can be fitted to current theories of the 
earth's origin and to the conjectures of whether the earth is heating 
or cooling. It may also be possible to determine how much of the 
suboceanic heat is primordial and how much derives from radio- 
activity. 

What may be the first fixed-position current measurements in the 
deep ocean were reported by the Mohole scientists. A velocity of 0.2 
knot was observed at 1,500 feet in measurements for as long as 9.5 
hours with a rotor-type meter suspended between the drilling ship 
and one of the deep-moored buoys. This velocity was considerably 
less than estimates used in designing the drilling string. 

ONLY A BEGINNING 

Present scientific and engineering results are only the beginning. 
Project Mohole, born as a purely scientific concept, has led to the 



DRILLING BENEATH THE SEA — BENSON 403 

development of equipment and techniques with the potential of open- 
ing the oceans to commercial activity. The theoretical work on the 
experimental drilling operation could speed the day of ocean-floor 
mining, deep-sea oil drilling, and practical construction techniques. 
It definitely has paved the way for more scientific exploration. 

Meanwhile, the Mohole scientists are currently pushing ahead with 
surveys to determine the site for the eventual Mohole, seeking ways to 
improve the speed of drilling in hard rock, and experimenting with a 
host of new instriunents and techniques, all aimed at the next immedi- 
ate objective — a drilling program, perhaps within a year, to sample 
the third layer of the oceanic crust, and to prove out new methods for 
the eventual drill to the Moho. 



Reprints of the various articles in this Report may be obtained, as long as 
the supply lasts, on request addressed to the Editorial and Publications 
Division, Smithsonian Institution, Washington 25, D.C. 



A Natural History of Trilobites' 



By H. B. Whittington 

Museum of Comparative Zoology, Harvard College 



[With 8 plates] 



Trilobites are arthropods, one class of a phylum of invertebrate, 
segmented animals with jointed legs that contains among its living 
representatives such diverse forms as insects, spiders, centipedes, 
crabs, and lobsters. They are found in the oldest rocks of the Paleo- 
zoic era, at the beginning of the Cambrian period, some 600 million 
years ago. These animals, abundant in the early part of the Paleozoic 
era, decreased during the middle part of that era, and were even fewer 
in its younger rocks. The last survivors are found toward the end of 
the Paleozoic, about 250 million years ago. Trilobite fossils occur in 
a wide variety of sediments — sands, silts, muds, and limestones. The 
other types of fossils found with them suggest that these sediments 
were laid down in relatively shallow, marine waters. 

In the process of preservation, the original mineral matter in the 
trilobite's shell may be preserved, or there may be some addition to — 
or replacement of — this matter. Or the original material may be dis- 
solved away altogether after burial and consolidation of the rock, leav- 
ing only an impression or mold of the shell (pi. 5, fig. 1). Study 
of the well-preserved shells of trilobites shows that the animal's body 
comprised a head region, followed by a thorax (a series of segments 
that articulated with each other) , and a tail. The tail region is formed 
by the fusion of several segments like those in the thorax ; it may be 
smaller, equal in size, or larger than the head. The shell covered the 
back of the body, and, on the underside, extended inward only a short 
distance from the margin. Since it is outside the body, it is called 
an exoskeleton. 

The trilobite's body was bilaterally symmetrical; it had a raised 
region extending lengthwise down the middle and was flattened or 



^ Repriuted by permission from Natural History, vol. 70, No. 7, August-September 1961. 

405 



406 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

do^Yncurved on each side. It is this three-lobed form that prompted 
the name Trilobita for these animals. The raised middle region of 
the head was prominent in some species and bore deep, transverse 
grooves reflecting the segmentation. On each side of the head were 
raised eye lobes. Across these eye lobes and around the front of the 
head ran an impressed line, the suture line, along which the shell split 
at the time when the animal molted. 

Some trilobites are preserved with the body stretched out hori- 
zontally ; in others, it is rolled up so that the tail is tucked tightly in 
beneath the head (pi. 4) . There were articulating devices between the 
movable parts of the exoskeleton, and the outer parts of the thoracic 
segments were beveled and could slide over one another. The animal 
could only roll or unroll in the vertical plane, however. Its raised 
middle region and the horizontal adjacent parts of the segments make 
it evident that no side-to-side curving of the body in the horizontal 
plane was possible. 

Complete exoskeletons are the exception in fossil finds. It is more 
common to find only parts such as heads, individual thoracic seg- 
ments, and tails, disarticulated from each other. The head itself is 
often separated into parts along the suture line. 

Among the best-preserved trilobite shells laiown are some remark- 
able ones from Virginia (pi. 1). After burial in lime mud (which 
later became limestone), these shells were replaced by minutely gran- 
ular quartz in a manner that preserved all the details with ex- 
traordinary fidelity. When blocks of these limestones — they are 
Ordovician in age — are placed in dilute hydrochloric acid, the lime- 
stone is dissolved, but the replaced trilobite shells are unaffected and 
so can be freed from the enclosing rock without damage. The shells 
of any one species are not all of similar size, but form a graduated 
series. This series gives a record of the animals' shell growth — which 
took place by periodic molting — from that first formed, which was less 
than 1 millimeter in length, onAvard. Articulated skeletons, like that 
of Remopleurides^ are extremely rare in these particular limestones, 
presumably because almost all the shells were dismembered as the dead 
animals drifted about on the sea bottom. Thus, size series are usually 
available only for individual parts of the exoskeleton; for example, 
the part of the head between the suture lines. Such a series exhibits 
the changes that took place in outline and convexity, as well as the 
reduction in relative size of the spines. 

In the process of a trilobite's growth, new segments of the thorax 
were developed in the tail portion. As they became fully formed at 
the front edge, they were released to become freely jointed between 
the head and tail. The number of segments thus formed is charac- 
teristic for each trilobite species. Exoskeletons that include size 



Smithsonian Report. 1961. — Whittington 



^^ V. 



^^ 




Smithsonian Report, 1961.— Whittington 



PLATE 2 




Trilobites such as this Olenoides pair, with appr,.::^. \ isible as a thin film extending 
beyond the body, come from the Burgess Shale of British Columbia. XO.7. (From 
Walcott, 1918.) 



Smithsonian Report, 1961. — Whittington 




Plate 3 



■;^' X 






a. 




Smithsonian Report, 1961.— Whittington 



Plate 4 




1. Enrolled exoskeleton of Ordovlcian genus Flexicalymene is seen from the side. Cup- 
shaped structure at top is eye, with suture line running to side. X3.5. 




2. From front, Flexicalymene shows the three-lobed form that prompted the name 
"Trilobita" for these animals. The shell splits on suture line at molting, X3.5. 



Smithsonian Report, 1961. — Whittington 



Plate 5 





_ X 



Smithsonian Report. 1961. — Whittington 



PLATE 6 




X 



•" < 



Smithsonian Report. I%1. Whittington 



Plate 7 




1. Fossil tracks, called Dimorphichnus, probably were made by trilobite. Tracks may 
have been made in the manner pictured below (figure 2). View is from beneath. X0.4. 
(From A. Seilacher, 1955.) 




Smithsonian Report, 1 96 1 .— Whittington 



Plate 




'i^d" 'tiL 'M 



Isotelus, one of the first trilobites described from the New World, iu 1824. A bpccinict 
discovered in New York State by Walcott. X4.5. 



TRILOBITES — WHITTINGTON 407 

series have also been obtained from limestones in Utah and Nevada, 
where they are preserved also by silicification. From other areas 
and countries, in shales and siltstones, have come size series of articu- 
lated exoskeletons, a notable example being those described from 
Czechoslovakia more than a hundred years ago by J. Barrande. 

It is extremely rare to find parts of a trilobite preserved other than 
the exoskeleton. This is presumably because the exoskeleton was 
strengthened by secretion of mineral matter, but the covering of the 
antennules and other appendages was not so reinforced. From a few 
localities, the most important being in North America, remains of 
appendages are known. An early discovery, amiomiced in 1876, was 
made by Charles D. Walcott (later the Secretary of the Smithsonian 
Institution) in a limestone bed near Trenton Falls, N.Y. Spurred 
on by his memory of the enthusiasm of Louis Agassiz, Walcott obtained 
over 3,500 entire trilobites, in a few of which the appendages were 
preserved. Walcott cut thin sections of these specimens, and demon- 
strated clearly that trilobites possessed jointed appendages. 

A few years later, W. S. Valiant, then curator of the museum at 
Kutgers College, picked up a loose piece of rock near Rome, N.Y., 
which contained a trilobite with appendages preserved by having been 
infilled with pyrite. A patient 8-year search resulted in the discovery 
in 1892 of the dark shale layer, less than 1 centimeter thick, from which 
Valiant's loose specimen had come. The formation contained hun- 
dreds of similar specimens. Delicate excavations of these fossils 
were made by Prof. C. E. Beecher of Yale University, but he died 
while still working on a drawing of one of his remarkable prepara- 
tions. His student, Percy E. Eaymond, took up the work and wrote 
an epic monograph concerned with the nature of trilobite appendages. 

Long before this monograph was completed, Walcott had made 
another sensational discovery, this time in the Burgess Shale — a 
formation of Middle Cambrian age — near Field, British Columbia. 
A great variety of arthropods are preserved in these shales, including 
trilobites with the appendages actually visible as a thin silvery film 
extending out beyond the margins of the exoskeleton (pi. 2). 

No finds of comparable richness have been made since these early 
days, and advances in our knowledge have come from the applica- 
tion of more refuied tecliniques. An example of such an investigation 
is that made by Prof. Leif St0rmer of the University of Oslo, who 
came to the United States in 1931 and worked with fragments of Wal- 
cott's original material from Trenton Falls. St0rmer ground a series 
of sections, parallel to each other and a small distance apart, through 
an enrolled specimen. An enlarged drawing of each section was 
made, and each drawing was traced on a sheet of wax. The thick- 
ness of the wax sheets wa.s proportional to the enlargement of the 



408 



ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 




Figure 1. — Partial pattern of the way in which the appendages are attached to trilobite's 
body is shown in view of the animal's underside from restoration by St^rmer. Approx. 
x2. 



drawing and to the distance between successive sections. Each 
outlined wax sheet was then cut out and the sheets put together to form 
an enlarged model of the original specimen. The reconstruction (fig. 
1) based on these models gives an idea of the great amount of detailed 
information provided by St0rmer's work. This new knowledge, com- 
bined with a restudy of all previously discovered material, has resulted 
in a major advance in our understanding of trilobites. 

The reconstruction of the imderside of the body shows the large 
plate (or hypostome) which lay underneath the middle region of the 
head. On the head, beside and behind the hypostome, are shown 
four pairs of appendages; in front of them are the long, jointed 
antennules. Most students of trilobites today believe that the animal's 
mouth lay just inside the posterior edge of the hypostome, and that the 
stomach and other organs were enclosed in the capsule formed by the 
hypostome and the middle part of the head. The alimentary canal 



TRILOBITES — WHITTINGTON 



409 



Number of subfamilies 
in each series: 

I o O new 

n + • • •+ dying out 




Figure 2. — Evolutionary history of trilobites portrayed in the rise and fall of subfamily 
groups in time. (From C. J. Stubblefield, 1959.) 

then extended back beneath the middle part of the body, terminating 
in an anus at the posterior tip. St0rmer's reconstruction of the under- 
side of the body shows an enclosing membrane and a pair of similar 
appendages on each segment. Each appendage consists of a jointed 
walking leg with bristles at the tip. From near the base of the ap- 
pendage rises a jointed branch that bears many fine filaments. 

All investigations have shown that the trilobite's appendages were 
similar on each segment, and that none bore a claw or pincer for grasp- 
ing and tearing food and passing it to the mouth. Trilobites probably 
fed, therefore, on minute organic particles suspended in the water or 
enclosed in the sediment of the sea bottom, this material being brought 
to the mouth by currents of water. The filament-bearing branches of 
the appendages may have been the main instruments in producing 
these currents. They probably also functioned as gills, and constant 
movement of the branches would have kept the gills bathed with fresh 
water. 

The trilobite's appendages were attached by muscles to the convex 
middle region of the exoskeleton. Deep furrows in this region on the 
head, thorax, and tail formed projections on the inside of the shell for 
such attachments. Trilobites with smooth shells may show dark 
patches, which are believed to be corresponding areas of muscle at- 
tachment. The animal must also have possessed longitudinal muscles 
to effect its characteristic enrollment : these were probably situated in 
the middle region of the body. 

It had been argued that trilobites like Isotelus (pi. 8) , with its wide 
middle region and its relatively large tail, may have used a dov»nward 
and forward stroke of the tail in swimming, as does the modern lob- 
ster. The bodies of these two animals are not comparable, however : 



410 ANlSrUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

the space for powerful muscles in the thorax and tail of this species of 
trilobite was not so great as that in the lobster tail. 

Rigidity and strength must have been important requirements of 
the trilobite exoskeleton, since it was the framework upon which the 
muscular system operated. On the outside of the shell are ridges and 
grooves, pits, tubercles, and raised lines, incorrectly called "ornament." 
These served to make the shell rigid, as do sheet-iron corrugations. 
In well-preserved specimens, many minute openings have been ob- 
served at the tips of short spines and tubercles (pi. 5, fig. 2). These 
are the ends of exoskeletal canals that led to sensory hairs or from 
glands beneath the exoskeleton. Such canals are also to be found 
disposed around the margins of the exoskeleton. 

The main supply of the organic particles on which trilobites fed 
must have been close to the surface of, or within, the sediments of the 
sea bottom. We may reasonably conclude, then, that trilobites lived 
largely in this bottom region, swimming by means of to-and-f ro move- 
ments of their appendages, and also walking on, and digging or raking 
in, the bottom sediments. The antennules extended forward, explor- 
ing the region immediately ahead, and the eyes, with their many 
small facets (pi. 6), were well adapted to detecting movements in 
such surroundings. 

Gradually, then, a picture of the life of these animals begins to 
emerge from a study of their anatomy. Trilobites must have made 
impressions in the soft mud of the ancient sea bottom as they searched 
for food. If such impressions were later filled in by sand or silt, they 
might be preserved as fossil casts, projecting from the underside of a 
layer of silt or sand, now converted into rock. Just such tracks and 
trails are found in Paleozoic rocks : one sort of trail, called Rusophy- 
cus, is known from many continents. It is bilobed, with a prominent 
median longitudinal ridge. On each lobe are obliquely directed ridges 
and grooves. In one example, clear impressions are believed to be 
those of an animal's jointed appendages. 

These trails are commensurate with trilobites. They may be shal- 
low, or deep and pocketlike, or more or less continuous. Inward and 
backward movements of the walking limbs of the animal could have 
scraped out the hollows, pushing out the material in the midline be- 
hind them. Impressions in the sides of some of the deep hollows are 
believed to have been made by the edges of the trilobite head and by 
spines on its thoracic segments. The trails are thus interpreted as 
shallow excavations, or perhaps even tunnels, made by trilobites in 
the bottom sediment as they passed through it in search of food. 
Some of the deep pockets have been thought of as excavations made 
for the deposit of eggs, such as the horseshoe crab Limulus makes 
today. 



TRILOBITES — ^WHITTINGTON 411 

One might expect that, occasionally, a dead individual trilobite 
would be found associated with such a trail— the remains of an animal 
tliat had died, or of one that was overwhelmed by a sudden inrush of 
sediments or some other catastrophe. Yet, so far, no such dramatic 
proof of this scientific detection seems to have been found. Thus, the 
interpretation of these trails, although reasonable, is not positive. In 
almost all cases, fossils are the remains of animals that possessed hard 
parts (skeletons impregnated with mineral matter) that could be 
preserved. Yet in these ancient seas there were, in all probability, 
many inhabitants that lacked such hard parts. Conceivably, some 
of these fossil trails are the enigmatic traces of just such soft and now 
vanished animals. 

A different type of track, from Lower Cambrian rocks of Pakistan, 
has recently been described by Dr. A. Seilacher, University of Got- 
tingen, Germany. This track, Dimorphichniis^ is abundant on the 
surfaces of the sandstone layers in which the remains of trilobite 
shells are rare. Nevertheless, the size and nature of the track make 
it probable that it was made by the tips of the appendages of a trilo- 
bite (pi. 7). Dr. Seilacher considers that the animal held itself diag- 
onally to its direction of progression, and that it dug in the walking 
legs on one side to make deep, short scars, while raking over the sur- 
face with the legs on the other side to form longer scraping marks. 

Thus, compilation of all available knowledge of the trilobite body, 
combined with interpretations of the tracks and trails, affords a picture 
of how some trilobites may have lived. Those like Isotelus^ smooth- 
shelled, and with the tail similar to the head in size, or like Dipleura^ 
which had a narrower body and more thoracic segments, are pre- 
smned — because of their smooth, elongate form — to have burrowed 
into the sediments. There does not seem to be any obvious correlation 
between the type of exoskeleton and the habit of rakmg the surface of 
the sediments or making shallow excavations in it. Such a mode of 
life seems reasonable for such different trilobites as PtycTioparia^ 
Flexicalymene^ GTyptolithus^ or Cordania. The broad, pitted fringe 
around the head of Cryptolithus and the long, backwardly directed 
spines may have served to prop the animal up on the sea floor with 
its thorax extended above it, so that its appendages could have stirred 
up the mud. The broad border around and behind the head of Cor- 
dania may have supported the animal in a similar way. Despite this 
possible similarity in habit, Cordania^ which had eyes, facial sutures, 
and many more thoracic segments, can be only very distantly related 
to Gryptolithus. 

Such spinose trilobites as Ceratocephala (fig. 3) and Miraspis (pi. 
3, fig, 1) can hardly have burrowed or dug into the sea bottom. They 
may, however, have rested the level front and side edges of the head 



412 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

on the surface of the sediment, with thorax stretched out and limbs 
stirring up the mud in search of food. 

The large head plate — hypostome — of many trilobites was firmly 
braced against the remainder of the head, thus affording both protec- 
tion for the main organs and points of attachment for muscles. The 
posterior edge of the hypostome was sharply folded, and in some 
species it bore spines, so that these trilobites could have dug in the 
mud with their hypostomes by walking backward. However, evidences 
of this behavior, in the form of trails produced by such activity, have 
not yet been recognized by paleontologists. 

Trilobites of a particular body form, or of an otherwise related 
group, are in most cases not found exclusively in any one type of sedi- 
mentary rock. Smooth-shelled forms like Isotelus^ for example, are 
found in reef limestone, shale, siltstone, and sandstone, but so is the 
spiny C eratocephala. Some of these occurrences may result from the 
burial of the animal's shell in a sediment that was laid down in an 
environment quite different from the one in which the living animal 
resided. If the trilobite exoskeleton is not disarticulated and is well 
preserved, however, we may presume that it probably was buried 
close to where it lived. 

Thus, clues to the ancient environment may properly be sought 
from the enclosing rock. Many cases in which this procedure has 
been followed suggest that particular species of trilobites possessed a 
wide tolerance for such environmental variables as depth of water, 
amount of light, temperature, and type of bottom sediment. Other 
species or groups of species seem to have favored one environment, 
although they were not confined to it. The Upper Cambrian ancestors 
of Triarthrus, for example, are abundant in dark shales, deposited 
in stagnant waters that were probably deficient in oxygen. Again, 
Dipleura and its close relatives are found commonly, but not exclu- 
sively, in sandy sediments in which they probably dug. 

Trilobite remains are abundant in Middle Paleozoic reef rocks, and 
it has been claimed that one smooth-shelled form inhabited the rough- 
water zone of a particular reef, clinging to rock surfaces like a modern 
chiton. Other examples are known of related but distinct species that 
are abundant in reef rocks of different ages and wide geographic 
separation. 

Thus there is evidence that certain trilobites were adapted to life in 
particular ecological niches in the ancient seas, but little evidence that 
most were adapted to a restricted environment. The possession of 
large eyes (in Remopleurides^ for example) or absence of eyes (in 
Cryptolithus) has been held to suggest a life spent in muddy or deep, 
dimly lighted waters. Analogy with living arthropods, however, 
does not point to any positive conclusions. 



TRILOBITE S — WHITTINGTON 413 

The nature of the rocks that contain trilobite fossils suggests deposi- 
tion in waters not more than a few hundred feet deep. Thus we have 
no direct evidence that trilobites inhabited deep oceanic waters. Yet, 
extremely similar genera {Ptychagnostus (pi. 3, fig. 2) and Dicranu- 
nis, for example) have been shown to have a worldwide distribution. 
Does this mean that these and other kinds of trilobites inhabited the 
surface waters of the oceans, feeding on the microscopic floating plants 
or animals that constituted the Paleozoic plankton ? Did they browse 
amid floating mats of seaweed, like those of the Sargasso today ? If 
we assume this mode of life, the molts and dead bodies of such animals 
might have come to rest in widely separated localities, and have been 
included, in consequence, in very different types of sediments. 

Vfe know, however, that newly hatched trilobites formed their 
first shells when they were half a millimeter or so in length. These 
tiny creatures probably floated, like the larvae of today's crustaceans. 
The young may have existed in this stage for days or weeks and, in 
that time, could have drifted far from tlie point where the eggs were 
laid. At a size of less than 1 centimeter in length in most species, 
trilobites became bottom dwellers in shallow water, and probably spent 
the remainder of their lives within a limited area. Thus, the wide 
geographical dispersion of particular trilobites may be explained as 
taking place during the larval stages, the adults dwelling on the sea 
bottom — not drifting in the ocean's surface water. 

It has been said that spiny trilobites like Ceratoce'phdla and 
Miraspis were floating forms even in the adult stage, the spines 
inhibiting their sinking. However, we know nothing of the append- 
ages of these trilobites and, as mentioned, the possession of a spiny 
exoskeleton does not preclude the possibility of bottom dwelling. 

Some modern arthropod species exhibit sexual dimorphism — that is, 
male and female forms that differ in size or in other characters. More 
than a hundred years ago, Barrancle (in that great study of trilobites 
from Czechoslovakia already mentioned) observed a broad and a 
narrow form in certain species. Today, we consider these differences 
to be the result of distortion that the fossils sufl'ered when the rocks 
enclosing them were subjected to various stresses. Other such exam- 
ples among fossils are well known. Not all the cases of two closely 
similar forms coming from the same rocks can be so explained, how- 
ever, and it may be that sexual dimorphism did occur in trilobites. If 
so, however, it was not universal : the cases are equivocal. 

Although during the 100-million-year period of the Cambrian, trilo- 
bites were the dominant animals of the shallow seas in kinds, numbers, 
and sizes, they did not have these seas to themselves. There were other 
aquatic arthropods in existence— types that, unlike the trilobites, were 
armed with pincers. However, the rarity of these arthropods as fossils 



414 ANNUAL REPORT SIVHTHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 




Figure 3. — Ceratocephala, an Ordovician to Devonian trilobite, restored to show the 
antennules and sensory hairs, x 4. (From Whittington and Evitt, 1954.) 

suggests that they were not formidable enemies of the trilobites. From 
the earliest Cambrian onward, a succession of new genera and families 
of trilobites appeared, though the rate of extinction of trilobite groups 
was also high (fig. 2). 

On balance, the picture is one of great evolutionary activity, of adap- 
tation to a great variety of environments, expressed in a multiplicity 
of genera and species. At the end of the Cambrian and during the 
Ordovician period, this picture begins to change. New kinds of ani- 
mals appeared. Previously existing ones became more numerous, and 
these animals must have competed with the trilobites for the food 
supply on and in the sea floor. Among these forms were the bivalved 
brachiopods and clams, and the snails. The nautiloids, molluscan 
ancestors of the modern Nautilus, were not only numerous and larger 
than trilobites, but probably had grasping tentacles and a powerful 
jaw. Such predators could have seized and eaten trilobites. But the 
capacity for enrollment may have afforded the trilobites some protec- 
tion, and their spines must have made them an awkward mouthful. 
They may have lain partly buried in the bottom sediment, the pro- 
jecting or stalked eyes of some species enabling them to detect nearby 
movement. Vegetation, clusters of marine animals such as sea lilies 
or corals, and crannies in reefs would also have afforded the trilobites 
places of concealment. 



TRILOBITES — WHITTINGTON 415 

The evolution of many new kinds of trilobites in the Ordovician 
perhaps reflects adaptation to new environments in response to chang- 
ing conditions. Yet it may be seen (fig. 2) that, toward the end of this 
period, the rate of extinction became greater than the rate of evolution 
of new forms. This is a pattern that continued through the animals' 
remaining history. Only a single group persisted through the Car- 
boniferous and into the Permian. This decline — and the ultimate 
total extinction of trilobites — cannot readily be explained. 

One of the mysteries of the evolutionary process is why such a fate 
should overtake a group of animals that, for millions of years, were 
well adapted to their surroundings and continued to evolve new species 
until near the close of the Paleozoic era. Phrases that imply "over- 
specialization" or "the senescence of the trilobite race" are neither apt 
nor meaningful. G eratocephdla has been regarded as a highly "spe- 
cialized" trilobite, yet its exoskeleton is known from rocks ranging 
from Ordovician to Devonian age — a period of some 100 million years. 
This is clear evidence that tj^pes of animals well adapted to a par- 
ticular environment may exist for an extremely long time without 
significant morphological change. 

The competition with other groups for food may have played a part 
in the trilobites' demise. In addition, the Devonian fishes — among 
which jaws evolved for the first time — may have become trilobite 
predators. At present, however, there is no acceptable theory that 
explains the reasons for extinction of the trilobites. 

New kinds of trilobites are constantly being found on all continents 
(although new information on trails and on appendages collects much 
more slowly). As the store of knowledge from new discoveries and 
improved techniques of investigation accumulates, we should be able 
to outline more precisely the natural history of these remarkable 
arthropods. For the present, we may agree with the late Prof. Percy 
Raymond that perhaps the greatest contribution that trilobites have 
made to our world "is the aesthetic pleasure the contemplation of their 
elegant shells has given to countless collectors and students of fossils." 
But paleontology is a science that does more than enjoy its raw ma- 
terial : it also tries to bring extinct animals back to life. To me, it is 
far more exciting to try to casualize these "elegant shells" as parts of 
living animals, inhabiting their particular niche in nature at a time 
so long ago that the vertebrate animals had yet to evolve. 



625325—62 28 



Chromosomes and the Theory of Heredity^ 



By C. D. DARLiiVGTON, F.R.S. 

Botany School, Oxford University, Oxford, England 



MORGAN'S DISCOVERY 

The crisis of the struggle in the scientific world over the chromosome 
theory of heredity was reached in the 1920's when T. H. Morgan's 
views became the subject of dispute. Morgan, with his collaborators 
at Columbia University, had carried out breeding experiments with the 
fiy Drosophila [1].^ He claimed that by these experiments he could 
show that heredity, as long suspected, was indeed carried entirely by 
the chromosomes. It followed that these minute bodies in the cell 
nucleus were to be held responsible for the whole character of every 
living thing, plant or animal, man or microbe; and the course of evo- 
lution from the beginning had been determmed by changes in these 
chromosomes. It was a complete scheme of determinism on Omar 
Khayyam lines. 

This theory aroused misgiving and contradiction in many countries, 
especially among older men who might know the fly but certainly did 
not know its chromosomes. Before we look at their arguments, let 
us see what Morgan, and Mendel before him, had done. 

Mendel had found that if he crossed two races of peas differing 
in two respects, as it might be AB X ab^ the hybrid gave germ cells of 
four kinds in equal numbers: AB^ Ah^ aB, and ab. Free assortment, 
random recombination, independent segregation were the explanations 
given for this behavior. Assortment of what? Assortment of certain 
"elements" carried in all cells and passed to the germ cells. Morgan, 
however, beginning in 1910, found that in the fly often less than half 
the germ cells were of the new types. Ah and aB. The proportion was 
characteristic of the particular pair of elements. Assortment was not 
free. The elements were linked; and, if the hybrid fly happened to 
be a male, the linkage was complete : the elements were held together 
in one block. 



* Substance of a Royal Society Tercentenary Lecture delivered on July 20, 1960. Re- 
printed by permission from Nature, vol. 187, No. 4741, pp. 892-895, Sept. 10, 1960. 
' Numbers in brackets refer to list of references at end of article. 

417 



418 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

At this point Morgan recalled that the previous year the cytologist 
Janssens [2] at Louvain had made a general proposal about chromo- 
some behavior. He had noticed that after the pairing of maternal and 
paternal chromosomes in germ cell formation they fell apart but re- 
mained touching or attached at various points which he called "chi- 
asmata." At these points, Janssens suggested, the mating chromosomes 
might exchange parts by breakage and reunion. Such behavior would 
give a statistical association or linkage of elements in the same chro- 
mosome of a kind already to be suspected from Bateson's breeding 
experiments. Conversely it would lead to the formation of new 
chromosomes by a recombination of parts. 

Taking Janssens's hint, Morgan and his collaborators proceeded to 
make crosses between pairs of flies differing in many pairs of respects. 
They fomid that hundreds of elements could on this assumption be 
fitted into the four observed pairs of chromosomes of Drosophila. 
Moreover, if the proportion of regrouping or crossing-over was itself 
assumed to be related to the distance apart of the elements along each 
cliromosome, they found that the whole assembly fitted into fixed 
linear orders. Thus the elements of heredity, or, using Janssens's 
word, the genes, could be put on a map which, like other maps, showed 
one how to find one's way about. 

It soon seemed reasonable to advance from these direct inferences 
to more general principles. Morgan argued that all heredity in all 
organisms was carried by chromosomes as it was in DrosophUa. 
Further, all chromosomes were composed of units of crossing-over 
or mutation which might be known as genes. Hence, he appeared to 
argue, the genes would add up to give the whole of heredity ; and the 
differences between them would add up to give the whole of variation 
and of evolution. 

THE OPPOSITION 

Morgan's "Theory of the Gene" appeared in 1926 ; its reception in 
England could scarcely have been more unfavorable. Seven men 
might have been willing to assert their belief in the chromosome 
theory and give their reasons for it. But against this view there were 
seven hmidred who held a contrary opinion. The supporters felt 
liberated by the new theory, its opponents felt confined and oppressed 
by it. The grounds they gave for their opposition were both general 
and specific [3]. 

The general objections were that the theory was naive and mechani- 
ical and yet self-contradictory. For it was both statistical and deter- 
ministic. It left too much room to chance yet no room to free will. 
In evolution, moreover, its hard particulate basis shut out the hope of 



CHROMOSOMES AND HEREDITY — DARLINGTON 419 

any soft Lamarckian adaptation. The Lamarckian principle, we must 
remember, was at that time generally maintained by naturalists and 
physiologists and assumed by medical and social scientists. Even phi- 
losophers had their opinions, and they were on the Lamarckian side. 
Yet there was no room in this picture for the Lamarckian emblems, 
the giraffe, the salamander, or the midwife toad. 

The more specific objections to the chromosome theory were also very 
various. The assumption that the chromosomes were alone responsible 
for heredity left a gap in our theory of development. Is not heredity 
merely a repetition of development? Yet this theory of heredity 
almost ignored development, and it was based on a single organism — 
a fly with a most disorderly development of its own. The chromosome 
theory also left a gap where the cytoplasm should be — where indeed 
European workers had found evidence of determination. Loeb, with 
his unfortunate idea that the cytoplasm carried the solid basis of 
heredity while the nucleus bore only a few frills, provided a line of 
defense for weaker opponents of the chromosome theory. 

Again it was pointed out, quite rightly, that the gene mutations of 
Drosophila could not be representative of natural variation for they 
were in their effects both disadvantageous and discontinuous. In the 
first respect they contradicted the helpful mutations of the evening 
primrose, Oenothera. In the second respect they failed to explain 
the universal property of continuous variation. As for the chromo- 
somes themselves, did they not at the end of eveiy cell division dis- 
solve and disappear into that bag of fluid, the nucleus? As for 
crossing-over, the foundation of Morgan's interpretation, it was sup- 
posed to happen only in one sex and not in the other. But who had 
ever seen it happen anywhere? Crossing-over, like the genes them- 
selves, was a stroke of fancy, a mathematical artifact invented to 
salvage a broken hypothesis. 

With regard to these chromosomes, it was true, there were a variety 
of accounts of what they did [4]. The two cell divisions known as 
meiosis, when the germ cells were formed, were especially disputable. 
Some believed that there were general niles; others that there were 
many kinds of meiosis in different groups of plants and animals. 
Most believed that, if there was a rule, it was that the corresponding 
chromosomes from the two parents paired as threads side-by-side. 
But a few stoutly maintained that chromosomes in the nucleus were in 
an endless chain which split up crosswise into segments to give 2a; 
single chromosomes at mitosis, x double chromosomes at meiosis, and, 
by a freak of nature, 4a3 chromosomes at mitosis making a new tetra- 
ploid [5]. Clearly this view was of no help to those who believed 
that the chromosomes made heredity and were differentiated in linear 
structure; but it was a help to those who did not think anything of 



420 ANISTLTAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

the kind. Such differences of opinion — which were described in 
textbooks, taught in universities, and expounded in theses — created a 
verbal and literary jungle which had to be cleared before any general 
theory could be discussed. 

Finally, there was one specific objection which no one seemed to 
make. It was that genes were inferred to exist from breeding experi- 
ments with "characters"; or more precisely, from studying the in- 
heritance of differences of character when different parents were 
crossed. Yet the whole of heredity, of the genotype, was supposed to 
be made up of genes added together. There was a concealed gap be- 
tween the analytical or differential gene and the integral genotype. 
In looking at the chromosomes one could see that they added up to 
make the nucleus. But their differences, their variations, were visibly 
of many kinds and degrees. The gap was revealed. How could it be 
bridged? Not, as it seemed to me, by pretending that it did not exist. 
It was necessary to work out a system of understanding life in terms 
of chromosomes, a system independent of experimental breeding, a 
system which would stand on its own feet. In this view I was 
strengthened by one man's opinion. "Cytology," Karl Belar said to 
me in 1928, "should not be the ancilla of genetics." That was just 
what I thought. 

CROSSING-OVER AND THE CHIASMA 

Belar had shown that mitosis and the chromosomes themselves had 
a universal character, a character which must underlie the uniformity 
of development of plants and animals and protista [6]. Here was a 
great and necessaiy step forward. In genetics, as in geology a cen- 
tury earlier, uniformity was bound up with evolution. Cytologists 
and geneticists too, so far as they took the chromosomes seriously, 
therefore liked to think that the same such universal character was 
true also of meiosis and underlay some uniformity in heredity. But 
Drosoj)hila itself, with crossing-over at meiosis in the female but not 
in the male, faced us with the gravest objection to this view. It was 
possible to evade the issue for the time being. It was possible to 
begin with the simplest material offering experimental tests by purely 
chromosome criteria. For this purpose polyploid plants with large 
chromosomes, tulips and hyacinths, were admirably fitted. They re- 
vealed several unexpected principles. The important ones, in the 
present connection, concern the chiasma [7]. 

At a certam stage in the beginning or "prophase" of meiosis, like 
chromosomes come together as threads side-by-side in pairs. The 
association is limited to likes: it is chemically specific; and it was, I 
found, limited to pairs even when there are three or four of a kind. 
At a later stage the paired chromosomes reproduce, forming double 



CHROMOSOMES AND HEREDITY — DARLINGTON 421 

threads, and at the same time fall apart. But when they do so they 
stick at certain points, as Janssens had said, the chiasmata. 

Why do they fall apart, in one sense, and stick together, in another? 
Their structure gave the answer. Contrary to Janssens's view, the 
chiasmata always had the same structure: tliey were exchanges of 
partner between half-chromosome threads, chromatids as we call them. 
Further, these exchanges could be shown, on internal, cellular, micro- 
scopic, evidence to be invariably connected with a previous crossing- 
over between chromatids of the partner chromosomes. On the 
simplest assumption, therefore, chiasmata were determined by such 
crossing-over. The arrangement of four chromatids could be shown 
in a diagram that was at once genetic and cytological in its implica- 
tions. With capital and small letters in sequence for the pairing 
chromosomes, an asterisk for the mechanical center, and dots for the 
points of breakage, the diagram would be as follows : 



/ 


\ 
A 


B 

F—E—D—C 


c — d — e—f 


F—E—D—C 

b 
1 


c — d — e—f 

b 
1 


1 
a 

\ 


1 
a 

/ 



Thus from two chromosomes, ABCDEF and dbcdef^ two new 
chromatids, ABcdef and abCDEF^ had been formed, and the four 
chromatids would pass as chromosomes into the four germ cells 
formed by meiosis. The existence of these four cells would, as 
Janssens had put it, be justified by each of them being a unique com- 
bination of available genes different from the rest. 

One could not of course prove that this principle was universally 
true (in those days most biologists believed that propositions ought 
to be "proved") ; one could merely hope to render it increasingly prob- 
able. This hope was gradually realized. The critical configurations 
of several chromosomes united by, or interlocked with, successive 
chiasmata, the comparisons of frequencies and distributions of 
chiasmata and crossing-over in different organisms, in polyploids, in 
hybrids, with inversions and interchanges of segments of chromosome, 
in plants with defects of chromosome pairing and of sexual reproduc- 



422 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

tion, these all helped to carry conviction. Even in Oenothera the 
occurrence of chiasmata, the inference of crossing-over, could be used 
to explain the modes of inheritance and the origins and kinds of muta- 
tions [8]. 

The solution of the problem of crossing-over was, however, ob- 
structed by another, to me, unexpected but inseparable development. 
The study I had made of meiosis, and my interpretation of what a 
hundred others had seen in a great variety of plants and animals, made 
it clear that the chiasma had consequences which were as important as 
its causes [9]. People had supposed that the chromosomes were 
paired at the first metaphase of meiosis because they were, in a mysteri- 
ous sense, attracted to one another. This was, they thought, the climax 
of the sexual process. What could be more natural ? But I had 
found that, after pairing as single threads, the chromosomes fall apart 
as double threads. They do not attract, they repel one another after 
they become double; and they are held together only by chiasmata, 
by the exchanges of partner between their chromatids, after crossing- 
over. When pairs of chromosomes fail to form chiasmata, whatever 
the cause, the consequence is that they lie on the spindle, unconnected 
and unorientated. They then fail to pass to opposite poles. With- 
out chiasmata meiosis itself, with Mendelian segregation, the reduction 
of chromosome number and the alternation of haploid and diploid 
in the sexual cycle, all these fail to ensue. 

Thus there was, in my view, a universal causal sequence : crossing- 
over— 5>chiasmata—>chromosome pairing^segregation and reduc- 
tion—asexual reproduction. 

This reversal of the mechanical interpretation of meiosis made it 
possible to describe meiosis in the same physicochemical terms as 
mitosis. But what mattered first were its genetic implications. The 
new principle seemed to be true of all plants and animals (except 
male Droso'pliila). It therefore meant that meiosis and crossing- 
over had come in together, at one step. Crossing-over from its origin 
must have been coextensive with sexual reproduction. What Morgan 
had hoped to imply I was now forced to assert. The reason why the 
chromosomes were divisible into units or genes was that everywhere 
their division into such units was a condition of meiosis and hence of 
sexual reproduction. This, of course, made sense in terms of selec- 
tion, adaptation, and the evolution of sexual reproduction itself. For 
if the chromosome were not divisible into genes, if it were not capable 
of crossing-over, it would be inherited as a block and no genes could be 
revealed either to the geneticist by his experiments or to nature by 
her selection. The origmal system would never have survived. 



CHROMOSOMES AND HEREDITY — DARLINGTON 423 

EVOLUTION AND THE CELL 

It will be seen here that an evolutionary point of view was begin- 
ning to force itself into my argument. 

There were several reasons why this should have happened to the 
student of chromosomes, by no stretch of the imagination but by hard 
necessity. While the experimental breeder could sort out linkage in 
one species, the chromosomes could reveal chiasmata in a hundred 
species and in every group of plants and animals. While the experi- 
mental breeder himself decided how his plants or animals should 
breed, the chromosome man had to pick up his cells and discover how 
nature had bred them, and why, and with what effect. These were 
two reasons. But a third was even larger. It was that through 
the chromosomes there is continuity between successive generations. 
To the naturalist and to the experimental breeder the organism is an 
independent discontinuous entity. To the cytologist it is part of a 
continuous process. Cell division is always a step between the past 
and future : it is always adapted to meet conditions which do not yet 
exist, to produce progeny which are irrelevant to their parent's success. 

Oenothera first brought this home to me. In its evolution there had 
been interchanges between different chromosomes, each of which 
succeeded by virtue of its selective advantage over its predecessors. 
But success depended on whether plants were inbred or outbred. Thus 
the hereditary mechanism and the sexual mechanism, the means of 
distributing and recombining differences and the means of bringing 
them together, must be bound up together in one system, a genetic 
system. In a genetic system crossing-over of chromosomes is no good 
without crossing of germ cells, without outbreeding. The two proc- 
esses must be adjusted to one another. They must also be adjusted 
to the needs, not of the individual, but of the breeding group and, 
more particularly, of its posterity. 

A second example was in the male Drosophila^ with its suppression 
of crossing-over. In these flies the male, I found, had contrived an 
anomalous kind of meiosis without crossing-over [10]. The chromo- 
somes paired and separated without needing to form chiasmata. The 
breeding and the chromosome observations thus agreed. But how had 
an otherwise universal rule come to break down — and break down in 
the very species of organism in which the rule was first brought 
to light? 

The reason is obvious as soon as it is pointed out. In the verte- 
brates or flowering plants the genes in the chromosomes are recombined 
once in every sexual generation. This may be once in 10 months or 
10 years. But in the short-lived flies it happens once in 10 days. 
That is why from the whole animal kingdom Alorgan chose to work 



424 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

with them. But to recombine genes so often does not give any com- 
bination a chance of being properly tested. Far better to let the genes 
recombine in one sex and pass unrecombined through the other sex, 
down the other line. It is an admirable solution : new things can be 
made, but good things can be kept. 

In the evolution of the flies it was not therefore surprising that a 
new type of meiosis had been developed in one sex — it had to be the 
heterozygous sex — in which crossing-over was suppressed. The genetic 
system would benefit from this modification. The original type of 
meiosis, on the other hand, was the common ancestral type still found 
in all species of plants, animals, and protista, a type of nuclear divi- 
sion which had arisen at the origin of sexual reproduction, a type with 
a uniform physicochemical character. 

At the time this speculative conclusion seemed to be rash. Today, 
however, we can clearly go further. The brilliant work that is now 
being used to reveal the genetic structure of fungi, bacteria, bacteri- 
ophages, and other viruses makes it indeed necessary to go further. 
We have to say now that crossing-over of gene sequences, or nucleotide 
sequences, is the original property of all systems capable of evolution ; 
and we may add that sexual reproduction, as we ordinarily under- 
stand it, is the structure built around crossing-over which has made 
the higher organisms possible [11] . 

This view turned genetics upside down. In the short term one 
could still see fertilization as the focus of life's processes. For it is at 
this moment in the higher plants and animals that the individual is 
created. But in the long term the focus was shifted to the act of 
crossing-over and the origin of the chiasma. For this is the moment 
when, we may say, the gene is created. On this event all the processes 
of evolution converge and from it they all diverge. 

DETERMINATION AND UNCERTAINTY 

At an early stage in the discussion of crossing-over, the opponents 
of the chromosome theory objected that there was no visual or direct 
evidence that chromosomes did or could cross over at meiosis. When 
this evidence was provided they objected that there was no reason 
why it should happen. Fortunately the mechanical reasons were by 
this time only too evident. Chromosomes which pair as threads al- 
ways coil around one another. Just as pairs of textile fibers spun 
under torsion release a part of their torsion by coiling around one 
another, so do the chromosomes. The part of their torsion released 
is in equilibrium with the rest which is stored ; it is available to break 
the chromatids and to untwist them to a position where their broken 
ends can recombine in new combinations. The specificity in pairing 
of genes and of parts of chromosomes and the observed release of tor- 



CHROMOSOMES AND HEREDITY — DARLINGTON 425 

sion at the chiasma provide for the time, place, and action of the event 
inferred in Drosophila and of the result seen in the chiasma [12] , 

Experiments with nucleic acid starvation later indicated that the 
nucleic acid component of the chromosomes was the means of develop- 
ing their torsion. I therefore assumed it to have the structure not of 
a straight column but of a spiral staircase [13], an assumption which 
has been vindicated with beautiful precision by Watson and Crick 
[ 14] . How the molecular spiral works in detail, however, is a question 
we must ask later, when we have a more elaborate molecular model of 
the paired chromosomes. 

What must be discussed now is the fact that this breakage, this 
crossing-over, can occur at hundreds or thousands of different places 
along the chromosome — indeed by one definition between any pair of 
genes in the whole sequence. But in a particular pair in a particular 
cell it occurs at only a few points, from one to a dozen ; and there are 
conditions, even in Drosophila itself, where it seems to be almost fixed. 

This situation, in our experience of the statistics of causal relations, 
seemed to be unique and significant. Its mere mechanics was easily 
understood. The frequency and distribution of crossing-over are char- 
acteristic of the organism. It can be regulated by the organism, by 
its heredity. If the chromosomes that are going to pair are regularly 
placed side by side in the nucleus, which sometimes happens, the 
amount of twisting they develop is regularly distributed and hence 
the crossing-over. If the chromosomes are irregularly placed, as they 
usually are, the crossing-over will be irregular and uncertain, as it 
usually is. 

Thus the irregularity of crossing-over, which gives the character- 
istic variety of progeny in sexually reproducing organisms, is some- 
thing controlled. Like the weather it shows uncertainty. But, like 
the weather also, we can predict it so far as we can expect to predict it. 
Its failure, as well as its normal conditions, show that it is a deter- 
mined uncertainty. Indeed in asexual reproduction all uncertainty 
can be removed, and frequently is removed. Its general survival 
throughout the plant and animal world therefore shows that the un- 
certainty of crossing-over is original, is organized, and is of adaptive 
value. Through it, indeed, meiosis acts as a means of generating 
micertainty [15]. 

To put the matter in another way : it is a paradox that the gene 
which is an organ of determinacy in life exists by virtue of a process of 
apparent indeterminacy. But when we examine it we find that the 
indeterminacy is spurious. It has been put there (if I may diverge 
from the present argmnent) by natural selection and for natural 
selection. It has been put there as a necessary complement of the un- 
certainty of the gene's mutation; together they produce adaptive 
variation. 



426 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

The discovery of how crossing-over happens had long-range conse- 
quences beyond the previous limits of genetics, for it enabled us to 
split up the processes of life into two parts. First there are those con- 
cerned with determining the character of individuals. These are 
processes of physiology in which the greatest certainty of determina- 
tion, the strictest predictability in reaction with the environment, a 
chemical determinism, is achieved ; and second there are the processes 
of meiosis. These, reinforced by the chances of fertilization which are 
derived from them, determine the differences in character of indi- 
viduals. They are the processes of classical genetics in which the 
greatest uncertainty of determination is organized and achieved. 

This contrast, as I believe, between two kinds of process — the one 
deterministic, the other spuriously nondeterministic — also provides 
one of the several ways of splitting genetics into two. It means that 
instead of speaking of the laws of heredity, as the early Mendelians 
were fond of doing (making biology echo the physics of the time), we 
should speak rather of the "paradoxes" of genetics. For heredity is a 
relation between parent and offspring which is variably compounded 
of the certain and the uncertain elements, according to how like the 
parents or grandparents may have been; indeed, accordmg to the 
effects of their system of breeding. 

THE CONTINUING ISSUE 

I have given an eye-witness account of a battle. I believe it is a 
battle that we won. The pursuit of the enemy has, to be sure, taken us 
far away from the original site of the conflict; and it could have 
taken us much farther with the elasticity of the gene, the organization 
of the chromosome, or the physiology of the nucleus. But the site of 
the struggle matters less than its purpose. The enemy, although de- 
feated and dispersed, has not been destroyed. They will, in my 
opinion, have to be fought many times again. For mankind, if it hap- 
pens to take note of the argument, will not willingly admit that its 
destiny can be revealed by the breeding of flies or the counting of 
chiasmata. 

REFERENCES 

1. MoKGAN, T. H. Random segregation versus coupling in Mendelian inherit- 

ance. Science, n.s., vol. 34, p. 384, 1911. 
Morgan, T. H. The theory of the gene. New Haven, 1926. 

2. Janssens, F. A. La th^orie de la chiasmatypie. Cellule, vol. 25, pp. 387-411, 

1909. 

3. MacBride, E. W., et al. The relation of chromosomes to heredity. Nature, 

vol. 98, pp. 424-425, 1915. 
MacBride, E. W. The present position of the Darwinian theory. Science 
Progress, vol. 18, pp. 76-96, 1923. 



CHROMOSOMES AND HEREDITY — DARLINGTON 427 

MacBride, E. W. Further evidence for the Lamarckian theory. Nature, vol. 

143, p. 205, 1939. 
MacBride, E. W. Prof. E. B. Wilson : obituray notice. Nature, vol. 143, 

p. 547, 1939. 

4. Wilson, E. B. The cell in development and heredity (3d ed.). New York, 

1925. 

5. Farmer, J. B., and Digby, L. On the dimensions of chromosomes considered 

in relation to phylogeny. Philos. Trans. Roy. Soc, vol. 205, 1914. 

6. Belak, K. Der Formwechsel der Protistenkerne. Jena, 1926. 

7. Darlington, C. D. Polyploids and polyploidy. Nature, vol. 124, pp. 62-64, 

98-100, 1929. 

8. Darlington, C. D. The cytological theory of inheritance in Oenothera. 

Journ. Genet., vol. 24, pp. 405-474, 1931. 

9. Darlington, C. D. Meiosis. Biol. Rev., vol. 6, pp. 221-264, 1931. 

10. Darlington, C. D. Anomalous chromosome pairing in the male Drosophila 

pseudoobscura. Genetics, vol. 19, pp. 95-118, 1934, 

11. Darlington, C. D. The evolution of genetic systems. Cambridge, 1939. 2d 

ed., Edinburgh, 1958. 

12. Darlington, C. D. The time, place and action of crossing-over. Journ. 

Genet, vol. 31, pp. 185-212, 1935. (In Russian, Uspexi sovremennoi 
Biologii, vol. 5, pp. 848-870.) 

13. Darlington, C. D. The chemical basis of heredity and development. Dis- 

covery, vol. 6, pp. 79-86, 1945. 

14. Watson, J. D., and Crick, F. H. C. The structure of DNA. C.S.H. Symp. 

Quant. Biol., vol. 18, pp. 123-131, 1953. 

15. Darlington, C. D. The facts of life. London and New York, 1953. 



Tropical Climates and Biology^ 



By G. S. Carter 

Department of Zoology, University of Cambridge, Cambridge, England 



[With 4 plates] 



FoRTT years ago, wlien I was young, our elders often told us that a 
zoologist's education was not complete until he had visited the Tropics 
and worked on a tropical fauna. The richness and variety of animal 
life in the Tropics are so great that they felt that a man who had not 
experienced tropical zoology could have no more than a very incom- 
plete idea of the animal world and its distribution. It is my thesis in 
this address that work in the Tropics is still of great value to zoolo- 
gists, though not for exactly the reasons that led our predecessors to 
think so. 

Today, zoologists are not interested so much in describing new forms 
and recording their morphology and distribution; most of us are 
more interested in the general biology of animals — in trying to under- 
stand the interactions between animals and their environments, physi- 
cal and biological, how they manage to live in face of the often 
antagonistic conditions of their environments, what controls their 
distribution and evolution, and so on. If we do not go outside tem- 
perate climates such as our own, we tend to think that the conditions 
we find here are general, or at any rate normal, for animal life, and 
to neglect the fact that elsewhere in the world animals live in very 
different conditions. More than this, the range of conditions in a tem- 
perate climate is midway between the extremes of heat and cold to 
which life is exposed in other countries, and knowledge of the means 
by which animals survive in conditions nearer the extremes of the 
viable range often helps toward understanding their life in our own 
climate. In some ways study of arctic faunas shares these advantages 
with tropical biology, but in cold regions the fauna is so restricted, 
and investigation is so difficult, that I cannot believe that arctic biol- 
ogy can ever rival that of the Tropics in value to the biologist. 



1 Address delivered to Section D (Zoology) on Sept. 1, 1960, at the Cardiff Meeting of 
the British Association for the Advancement of Science. Reprinted by permission from 
The Advancement of Science (London), September 1960. 

429 



430 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

I shall give some examples in which work in the Tropics has given 
results that seem to me of interest to the general biologist, choosing 
examples in which the results are not such as might be expected from 
knowledge of the biology of temperate climates. I shall not deal with 
the economic importance of tropical biology, which is being discussed 
elsewhere at this meeting. Any economic use of a fauna or flora must 
be based on knowledge of the general biology; we need not fear, I 
think, that our results will be valueless even from the economic point 
of view. 

Before I go on to my examples of tropical biology I must sum- 
marize the climatic conditions in which tropical and temperate en- 
vironments differ, insofar as they seem to be biologically important, 
for it is necessary to realize the nature of these differences if we are 
to discuss their effects on the animals. I shall speak only of ter- 
restrial and fresh-water environments, saying nothing of the sea 
where the differences are of kinds other than those I shall be de- 
scribing. They would need a separate discussion. 

Ultimately, most of the climatic differences between tropical and 
temperate regions derive from the greater altitude of the sun at mid- 
day in the Tropics and from the world distribution of temperature 
and pressure, which is itself due partly to differences of solar heat at 
different latitudes and partly to rotational effects. How these ulti- 
mate causes produce their effects is the concern of meteorology and 
we need not go into it ; we need only to know what the effects are. 

On the Equator the altitude of the sun at midday is never more 
than 231/^° from the vertical. It declines to this angle at the solstices 
in June and December, and is vertical at the equinoxes. In the equa- 
torial region, therefore, any seasonal change there may be is double, 
as the sun passes north and south from the vertical. In temperature, 
however, the seasonal changes are very small, since, with the sun 
never far from the vertical, the amount of solar heat received does 
not vary by more than 8 percent, and the variation in the length of 
the day is insignificant. At the Tropics (23i/2° N. and S.) the 
seasonal changes are greater, for the sun at the winter solstice is at a 
height of only 43°, giving a variation of solar heat of about 27 per- 
cent, and the length of day varies by about 2 hours. In our country 
[England] sunlight is about twice as powerful in June as in Decem- 
ber, and the difference in heat received is greatly increased by the 
much longer daylight in summer. 

As the result of these conditions, the seasonal change in mean tem- 
perature on the Equator is not usually greater than 1° to 2° C. and 
is much less than the diurnal range which is often 10° C. In equa- 
torial regions, however, temperatures are never very high. The an- 
nual mean is usually between 25° and 30° C, being prevented from 



TROPICAL CLIMATES AND BIOLOGY — CARTER 431 

rising higher by the humidity, cloudiness, and other conditions. Ex- 
tremes of heat are characteristic not of the equatorial regions but of 
the deserts in subtropical latitudes. 

Though in fact the sun passes north and south of the vertical every- 
where within the Tropics, the double seasonal change is practically 
restricted to latitudes within 10° of the Equator. Farther from the 
Equator than this, the sun does not pass far enough from the vertical 
at the summer solstice to produce a noticeable effect. But the range 
of seasonal temperature change increases as we pass away from the 
Equator and may be as high as 8° C. at the Tropics. It is, however, 
still less than in our latitude, where it may be as much as 15° C. 

Ramfall is more important than the temperature in determining 
the differences between tropical environments. Equatorial regions 
are in general characterized by fairly high rainfall, because they lie 
where, between the north and south trade winds, rising currents of 
air are cooled and their moisture precipitated — the region known at 
sea as the doldrums, also a region of relatively high rainfall. As the 
sun passes north and south, this area of high rainfall follows it, and 
near the Equator the rainfall decreases. The result is that, although 
the seasonal change on the Equator is small in temperature, in rainfall 
it is considerable. It is unusual in an equatorial climate for any 
month to be entirely without rain, but the difference between the driest 
and wettest months may be great. Baker and Harrisson [1] ^ com- 
pared tropical climates in this respect and find that the rain of the 
wettest month is more than 2.5 times that of the driest in all but 3 
percent. The farther we go from the Equator the difference increases, 
the dry season following the sun with a lag of 1 to 2 months. Total 
ramfall also becomes less, especially beyond 15° N. and S. where the 
subtropical dry belt is approached. 

The character of the rain as well as its amount is very important 
in controlling environmental conditions in the Tropics. All over the 
Tropics cyclones with large variations of atmospheric pressure, such 
as we know here, do not normally occur. The rain is almost always 
convectional — owing to upward movement of currents of air — but its 
frequency is very different from one region to another. In the rain 
forests there is often rain on almost every day — there are on the aver- 
age 249 rainy days a year at Para near the mouth of the Amazon — 
and the rain usually falls as a storm of an hour or two's length, often 
with thunder. In some deserts the intervals between storms may be 
more than a year on the average. 

It is the frequency of rain more than any other feature of the cli- 
mate that controls the nature of environments in the Tropics. Where 
rain is frequent, the environment is unable to dry between storms, 



■ Figures In brackets refer to list of references at end of article. 
625325—62 29 



432 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

and the relative humidity is high. It is usually above 90 percent in 
rain forests where fog is frequent at dawn. Much of the w^ater flows 
oS the land into the large rivers that are characteristic of rain-forest 
regions. In doing so it leaches the land and the surface soil becomes 
denuded of salts. Forest waters are for this reason among the softest 
in the world ; they may have a salt content only two or three times that 
of rainwater. 

More accurately, it may be said that the nature of the environment 
is controlled by the proportion (l/g) of the gain of water to the en- 
viromnent in rain to its loss, not only in evaporation from open water 
surfaces but in transpiration from the vegetation and percolation into 
the soil. Where the rain is less than would be lost in these ways if 
the water were there, the environment will be a dry one and no water 
will flow ofi^ the land; where the gain is more than the loss, the en- 
vironment will be humid. In the rain forests the value of l/g is of the 
order of 0.2, so that much water flows off the land and the environment 
is humid. In deserts l/g may be as high as 200, and in tropical grass- 
land and savannas it is probably often near unity. 

Many other conditions in tropical environments are controlled by 
the value of l/g. Small diurnal and annual ranges of temperature 
are characteristic of humid environments, that is to say of those with 
a low l/g, not only in equatorial regions but generally in the Tropics ; 
in deserts the annual range may be as high as 40° to 50° C. and the 
diurnal range 25° or 30° C. Ultraviolet light is less in the more 
humid environments, cloudiness is greater, and the hours of sunshine 
less (5 to 6 hours a day in rain forests) . 

This account of tropical climates is very summary and incomplete; 
the few data I have given are almost wholly confined to the two ex- 
tremes of climate, the rainforests and the deserts. But I hope that 
it will serve to bring out some of the biologically important differences 
between tropical and temperate climates. The clearest of these are, 
besides the obvious difference in temperature, the much smaller sea- 
sonal differences in tropical and especially equatorial climates, and 
the greater part that w\ater supply plays in controlling the environ- 
mental conditions. It is in fact true that in many tropical environ- 
ments the effective rhythmical change of climate is not that of the 
seasons but that between rainstorms. I have myself found this to 
be clearly true in a country, the Paraguayan Chaco, where rain fell 
at intervals of about a fortnight. Pools and other small bodies of 
water would fill when the rain fell and dry before the next rain. Much 
of the smaller fauna of these pools — such, for instance, as the branchio- 
pod Crustacea, e.g., Estheria — passed through their whole life history 
in the few days that the pools were full, hatching at the time of rain 
and laying eggs before the pool dried. 



TROPICAL CLEVIATES AND BIOLOGY — CARTER 433 

Between the two extremes of climate that I have discussed there is, 
of course, a very wide range of intermediate tropical environments. 
These extend from woodland of many types to grassland and savanna, 
and to arid scrub where desert conditions are approached. In their 
general distribution this series of environments follows the reduction 
of rainfall as one goes north or south from the Equator, but every- 
where conditions are greatly modified by the local geography. Near 
the sea, and especially where trade winds blow onto the land, rain 
is more plentiful than farther inland; the monsoon modifies climate 
in some countries; mountains may precipitate rain on their windward 
sides and produce deserts in their lee; and many still more local fea- 
tures of the geography, such as the nature of the subsoil and the 
amount of percolation it allows, or the efficiency of the surface drain- 
age, will modify the environment in smaller areas. 

As a first example of work on tropical biology that has given results 
not to be expected from our knowledge of the biology of temperate 
regions, I will take work on the conditions of life in shallow and 
stagnant fresh waters. Such environments are very widely distributed 
in the Tropics. Mangrove swamps are found near the banks of many 
of the rivers, and papyrus swamps are widespread in Africa not only 
bordering the rivers and lakes but also filling shallow valleys far from 
the lakes. (In parts of Uganda 30 percent of the land is said to be 
under papyrus.) In rainforests large areas may be permanently 
flooded along the banks of the rivers, stretching many miles into the 
forest, and, besides all these, swamps of many kmds are found in open 
country. 

Some of the features of these swamps are common to most of them. 
Almost always the water lies under thick growths of aerial vegeta- 
tion — trees in the mangrove swamps and forest, papyrus which may 
grow to 12 to 15 feet high, and in the swamps of open country, grasses 
and other plants almost equally high. The water is often highly 
colored — it may have the color of weak tea — and is almost or quite 
stagnant even in the mangrove and papyrus swamps on the borders 
of rivers and lakes. In temperate countries undisturbed by man 
swamps may be equally widespread, but the conditions of life in their 
water are, as we shall see, very different from those in tropical swamps. 

(My own interest in these environments has centered in the fact 
that they are of great interest for the study of evolution. It was al- 
most certainly from swamps of this kind that vertebrates and probably 
many other terrestrial animals emerged from the water. But I shall 
not have space to discuss these matters in this paper.) 

I take as a first example of tropical swamps some in the Paraguayan 
Chaco in South America, in which Professor Beadle and I worked [2] . 



434 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

These lie in the almost flat grassy plains to the west of the Paraguay 
River, which are in fact an extension northward of the pampas. Their 
latitude is near the southern Tropic and the climate is therefore sub- 
tropical rather than typically tropical; it has a seasonal change of 
mean temperature of 8° C. (27° to 19° C.) . But in the hotter weather 
the characters of the environment are typical of those in true tropical 
swamps. The climate is moderately humid with an annual mean 
rainfall of 55 inches. The rain falls at intervals of about a fortnight, 
more frequently in the hot season. Between the storms the tempera- 
ture gradually rises until the next storm comes. 

The swamps occupy depressions in the plains only a few feet below 
the general level. They drain very slowly toward the river so that 
their water is for all practical purposes stagnant though its level 
varies in dry and wet periods by 2 feet or more. In the deepest parts 
of the swamp, which hardly ever dry, the water is at most 5 or 6 feet 
deep. The substratum is a black mud full of marsh gas (methane), 
consolidating in its deeper layers and passing gradually downward 
into a stiff and impervious clay. 

The shallower parts of the swamp (pi. 1, fig. 1) near its edges 
are occasionally dry, and the water is covered by a floating blanket of 
aerial plants of many species, among which the swamp-lettuce {Pistia) 
and the swamp-hyacinth {Eichhornia) are dominant. Between these 
plants the blanket is completed by the smaller fronds of the water- 
ferns Salvinia and Azolla (pi. 1, fig. 2). There may also be open 
pools where the blanket is missing. The more central parts of the 
swamp are filled with large clumps of a flowering plant [Thalia) 
reaching 10 feet or so above the water and of the bulrush {TypJia). 
Between these clumps the water is clear without vegetation and highly 
colored (pi. 2, fig. 1) . 

Investigation of the conditions in the waters of these swamps shows 
first that the content of nutrient salts is high. Phosphates, for in- 
stance, are present in concentrations of 2 to 4 mg. per liter, whereas 
in temperate waters concentrations around 0.1 mg. per liter are usual. 
Many other conditions such as the pH (6.2-6.8) and the bicarbonate 
content are suitable for the growth of phytoplankton, which we should 
therefore at first sight expect to be plentiful. In fact, in all parts 
of the swamp the water contains only a sparse plankton, both animal 
and plant, and in the central part there is almost none. 

One probable explanation of this anomaly lies in the heavy shading 
of the water by the vegetation above its surface and the shallow 
penetration of the light into the higlily colored water even if it is not 
shaded. In other similar tropical waters it has been found that the 
amount of light in the water may be below the compensation point 
for plants within a few inches of the surface. This is so in spite of 
the strength of the tropical sunlight. 



TROPICAL CLIIVIATES AND BIOLOGY — CARTER 435 

Measurement of the dissolved oxygen content of the water shows 
an even more striking contrast with the conditions in similar waters 
in temperate countries. In the tropical swamps the oxygen is every- 
where far from saturation even within an inch of the surface. It is 
in fact astonishing that in these and similar tropical waters one can 
often take a sample as close to the surface as is practicable — within 
at the most an inch — and find in it no measurable quantity of dis- 
solved oxygen. In the central parts of the Chaco swamps even the 
surface water hardly ever in hot weather contained a measurable 
quantity of oxygen, and certainly less than 5 percent saturation. 
In the outer region under the floating blanket the water was also 
almost always without measurable oxygen. Pools free of the float- 
ing blanket sometimes contained at midday 2 to 3 cc. of oxygen per 
liter (about 50 percent saturation) at the surface, but the lower water, 
even here, was often without oxygen continuously for many days in 
hot weather. 

How is this lack of oxygen m the swamp waters brought about? 
I believe that it is the result of several conditions which are all pres- 
ent in these waters and not normally present in otherwise similar 
temperate waters. Oxygen can be introduced into a body of water 
by diffusion from the air, and produced in it by photosynthesis. It 
will be removed by the respiration of plants and animals and by the 
chemical and biological oxidations of decay. In the tropical swamps 
little oxygen is produced by photosynthesis owing to the weak light- 
ing of the water, and decay, rapid at the high temperature, will ac- 
tively remove any oxygen that gets into the water. Oxygen can reach 
the water only by diffusion from the air above it. 

Entry of oxygen from the air must always take place, but in liquids 
diffusion, though rapid over a distance of a small fraction of a mil- 
limeter, is negligibly slow over greater distances. A thin oxygenated 
film at the surface will always be produced, but practically no oxygen 
can reach the lower layers of the water by unaided diffusion. It can 
reach the lower layers only if it is carried down by vortical disturb- 
ance, which may be due either to wind and current — and in the flowing 
water of rivers and streams all layers of the water are usually well 
oxygenated — or to convection due to the surface being sufficiently 
cooled at night to cause overturn of the layers of the water. These 
waters are stagnant, and the tliick vegetation above them prevents 
any disturbance in them by wind. Thus, overturn is the only means 
by which oxygen could reach the lower water. But m these tropical 
waters, exposed to hot sunlight during the day, there is set up at mid- 
day a very steep gradient of temperature from the surface downward 
(often 8° to 10° C. in a column of water 12 or 18 inches high), and 
in most nights no overturn occurs, so that the water is permanently 



436 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

stratified and the lower layers receive no oxygen. That this is the 
correct explanation is confirmed by the observation that in open pools 
in the outer parts of the Chaco swamps some oxygen — up to 20 percent 
saturation — was present in the lower water after unusually cool and 
rainy days or cold nights. 

The deoxygenation of the water was paralleled by a high content of 
free carbon dioxide — up to 40 cc, per liter in the water of the outer 
parts and 70 cc. per liter in the central parts. This was clearly due 
to its inability to escape to the air by diffusion. 

For animals breathing aquatically by gills these waters are therefore 
a very difficult environment, and this of itself is enough to explain 
the poverty of the zooplankton, even though, as was shown to be the 
case, the plankton is adapted to live at a low concentration of oxygen 
(5 percent saturation). All the fauna shows adaptation to life in a 
deoxygenated habitat. These swamps are a well-known habitat of 
the air-breathing lungfish Lepidosiren^ and many of the teleost 
fishes have evolved accessory air-breathing organs. Some of the 
smaller fishes, however, do not breathe air. They succeed in main- 
taining their aquatic respiration by living near the surface and using 
the thin oxygenated surface film, nibbling at it but not breaking the 
surface. The invertebrates also show many adaptations. A small 
oligochaete {Aulophorus) lives in the surface film of the outer region 
of the swamp. Being an oligochaete it needs a tube, and this it makes 
for itself from the spores of the waterferns. It carries this tube 
about with it. Another oligochaete {Drilocrius) lives in very shallow 
water at the edge of the swamp making burrows in the mud. From 
time to time it extends from its burrow to the surface of the water 
where it captures a bubble of air in a modified part of its tail which 
is specialized for respiration. With this it retreats into its burrow. 
The large aquatic snail AmpuIIaria has a lung for air-breathing and 
lays its eggs in masses on the stalks of plants above the water. Some 
of the fishes make nests which float at the surface of the water and have 
below them a foam of air bubbles which the young use for their respi- 
ration. Others lay their eggs in the mud of the outer part of the 
swamp, but during the wet season when the lower water may contain 
some oxygen. Lepidosiren lays its eggs in an L-shaped burrow in 
the mud guarded by the male, which is said to aerate the nest with air 
brought from the surface and excreted from the vascular filaments 
which it bears on its pelvic fins during the breeding season. 

I have worked on similar stagnant waters in two other parts of the 
Tropics— in the forests of British Guiana and in Uganda [3, 4]. In 
the Guiana forests the swamps (pi. 2, fig. 2) were shaded and protected 
from the wind by the trees above them. They were often as completely 
deoxygenated as the Chaco swamps but in them complete deoxygena- 



TROPICAL CLUVIATES AND BIOLOGY — CARTER 437 

tion did not usually last for more than a few days at a time whereas 
in the Chaco swamps it might be unbroken for weeks. I believe that 
the reason for this difference is the greater frequency of rain in Guiana 
and the less heating of the surface by day. The African swamps (pis. 
3 and 4) were thickly covered with papyrus and the deoxygenation 
in them was again extreme. Everywhere, except in lakeside swamps 
near the open water of the lake, even the surface water contained no 
measurable oxygen and the content of carbon dioxide was high. In 
these swamps the plankton was as sparse as in the Chaco swamps and 
the larger fauna mostly air-breathing. The African lungfish Protop- 
terus and several air-breathing teleost fishes live in these swamps. 

Thus, it appears that deoxygenation is a general condition in shallow 
and stagnant tropical waters, and this is borne out by the fact that 
air-breathing adaptations are found in the teleost fishes of similar 
habitats in many other tropical regions. In temperate countries 
deoxygenation does occur in shallow and stagnant waters occasionally 
during long periods of hot summer weather, but it is unusual. In the 
lake of the botanic gardens at Cambridge all the fish died some years 
ago in a hot spell ; I believe that they were killed by stratification and 
consequent deoxygenation of the water, which is muddy and nearly 
stagnant. Normally in temperate climates, heating of the surface in 
the daytime is not strong enough to prevent overturn at night. But 
we have very few examples of work on such waters even in temperate 
countries, and still fewer on tropical waters. It seems to me that 
more accurate knowledge of the conditions in which overturn occurs 
in natural waters would be valuable. It might be expected that at 
high altitudes in the Tropics, where the temperature is lower, condi- 
tions more like those in temperate waters would be found, and Beadle 
[5] has found that in some papyrus swamps on the shore of Lake 
Naivasha in Kenya at about 6,000 feet the water was 50 percent satu- 
rated with oxygen. On the other hand, I have found in an open pool 
at Kigezi in Uganda at a similar altitude (5,579 feet) apparently 
permanent stratification and complete deoxygenation of the lower 
water. The reason for the difference is not apparent. Clearly more 
work is needed, and this should be both theoretical and in the field. 

Equally unexpected results have been given by work on the sulfur 
content of tropical fresh waters in Africa. Beauchamp [6] pointed 
out that the sulfur content of many African fresh waters is very low ; 
in several lakes it is not above 3 parts per million (mg. per liter). He 
suggested that lack of sulfur is a limiting factor in the growth of the 
aquatic fauna. The subject was further investigated by Hesse [7], 
working on Lake Victoria. He found that the lake water contained 
0.5 to 2 p.p.m. total sulfur and less than 0.5 p.p.m. sulfate. In contrast 
the aquatic vegetation contained a normal sulfur content (average 



438 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

0.1 percent), so that sulfur can be a limiting factor only for the 
plankton- feeding and not for plant-eating fish. 

Wlien Hesse analyzed the mud from the bottom of the lake, aston- 
ishing results were obtained. The sulfur content of the mud was 
extremely high at all depths down to 13 meters below its surface, but 
m all the samples far the greater part of the sulfur — in most samples 
more than 90 percent — was in organic form. Inorganic sulfur is 
present but in relatively low concentration, sulfides often below the 
limit for estimation. 

Clearly, the sulfur is not held in the mud by precipitation as sul- 
fide, and this is confirmed by the fact that the water over the mud 
is often well oxygenated and the mud itself not in a highly reducing 
state. Wliat apparently happens is that the sulfur is absorbed from 
the water of the lake by the planktonic fauna and flora and carried 
down to the mud in their dead bodies, so that the water becomes 
denuded of sulfur. In the mud the organic sulfur compounds in 
the bodies of the planktonic organisms are preserved without break- 
down even for the several thousand years required for the deposition 
of 10 to 15 meters of mud. Plants growing in the water, if their roots 
penetrate the mud, are able to absorb sulfur from this store, and this 
is apparently the only means by which the sulfur can be carried back 
from the mud to the water. 

Soils around the lake were also found to have a low sulfur content 
except where they were covered with forest, bemg leached by water 
draining toward the lake. The same shortage of sulfur is found in 
many soils in other parts of Uganda, and Simpson and Butters [8] 
have found experimentally that addition of lake mud to such soil 
improves the growth of plants growing on the soil. The organic 
sulfur compounds in the mud break down if the mud is dried, boiled, 
or autoclaved. After being so treated it has been found to improve 
the fertility of fish ponds. 

I now turn from work on fresh waters to a quite different branch 
of tropical biology, investigation of the control of seasonal rhythms 
of reproduction and migration m tropical animals. This again raises 
problems different from those met in temperate regions. In many 
tropical environments, especially in regions at considerable distances 
from the Equator, there may be, as we have seen, fairly large seasonal 
changes in the environment, and there is then no difficulty in showing 
that seasonal changes in the behavior of the fauna are controlled by 
the environmental changes, as they usually are in temperate coun- 
tries. In the Paraguayan Chaco, for instance, many of the amphi- 
bians and fishes breed after the first heavy rains of the summer season 
and it is easy to show that the stimulus for breeding is in at least some 



Smithsonian Report, 1961. — Carter 



Plate 1 




■^&^ 



■^AS^^.^i^:t:^if 






'^L^.^.(. 



1. View of the Cliaco swaiiips truiii the uutcr edge. 




2. The floating blanket of the outer part of the Chaco swamps. The larger plants are 
Pistia, and the smaller frons between them Salvinia and Azolla. 



Smithsonian Report, 1%!. — Carter 



PLATE 2 





u 



Smithsonian Report. 1961. Carter 



PLATE 3 




1. Aerial photograph of papyrus swamps on the shore of Lake Victoria. 




2. A valley in Uganda filled with papyrus swamp, down tiie center ot which a stream flows. 



Smithsonian Report, 1961. — Carter 



Plate 4 







Vegetation of a papyrus swamp seen from its edge. 



I 



TROPICAL CLIMATES AND BIOLOGY — CARTER 439 

species cooling of the water by the rain. In the laboratory the easiest 
■way to induce many of the frogs and fishes to lay eggs is to sprinkle 
the aquarium with cool water. 

It is far less easy to see how biological rhythms are controlled in 
parts of the Tropics where seasonal changes of the climate are slight. 
We have seen that in equatorial regions the only large seasonal change 
is in rainfall, but it does not seem likely that variations in rainfall 
are the effective control of the rhytlims, for there is rain in every 
month of the year, the humidity is always high and not significantly 
variable, and, though food may for some animals differ from month 
to month, it is always plentiful. Yet the fact is that most species 
have well-defined seasonal rhythms even in these environments, 
though a few breed all the year round and some others have double 
breeding seasons associated with the double seasonal change. Baker 
and his coworkers found [9], for instance, that in the rain forests at 
Noumea in the New Hebrides, a highly invariable climate though the 
latitude is 15° S., all the species he worked on were seasonal in their 
breeding, the birds and mammals at least as markedly seasonal as in 
temperate comitries. A lizard {Emoia sp.) had a less clearly de- 
fined breeding season, though even it showed a seasonal rhythm of 
gonad growth. A bat [Miniopterus sp.) , which spent the day in caves 
where the climate was even more invariable than in the forest outside 
the caves, was the most markedly seasonal of all, breeding on only a 
few days at the beginning of September. The breeding seasons were 
often not the same as those general in temperate regions, and in 
the case of a passerine bird, Pachycephala pectoralis, differed from its 
breeding times in places at the same latitude in Australia. He had 
evidence that the times of breeding persisted at the same dates from 
year to year. He was not able to find any seasonal climatic change that 
could control the periodicity of the animals. Owing to the latitude 
the length of day at Noumea varies by 1% hours, but he concluded 
that this was not the effective cause. 

A large majority of species are seasonal in other invariable en^^ron- 
ments both in breeding and migration. Marshall and Williams found 
[10] that at Entebbe in Uganda on the Equator the yellow wagtail 
{Motacilla fava), which "winters" in Africa and spends the summer 
in Europe, was seasonal in the development of its gonad during its 
tune in Uganda (December to April) . They were imable to find any 
climatic change during this time to account for the periodicity. It 
is certainly not controlled by the length of day, for this does not vary 
significantly at Entebbe between December and April. 

For some species details of their habits and biology provide the 
answer. Birds that nest on islands in rivers, or on river banks near 
the water, may be able to breed only in the drier montlis when their 



440 ANlSnjAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

breeding sites are uncovered; and Marshall and Roberts [11], find 
that the cormorants {Phalacrocorax spp.) on Lake Victoria at 0°20' 
N. are seasonal, breeding from May to December, and they come to 
the conclusion that the determining cause is the greater frequency of 
high winds between January and April, which destroy their flimsy 
nests. 

Such reasons will not account for the general occurrence of 
periodicity in equatorial animals. If no explanation can be found in 
environmental changes, it may be suggested that the control lies 
in the animals themselves, in endogenous rhythms. But, if the breed- 
ing or migration is at the same date from year to year — and it seems 
to be so in most species — it is hardly possible, as Baker points out, for 
the control to be wholly by endogenous rhythm, for the period of the 
rhythm would have to agree very exactly with the annual cycle; any 
difference, however small, would mean that the time of breeding or 
migration altered from year to year. I know of only one instance 
in which the periodicity of a tropical animal is wholly due to an 
endogenous rhythm. This is the case of the wide-awake or sooty 
tern {Sterna fuscata)^ which nests on Ascension Island (8° S.). In 
this bird the interval between nesting times is not a year but 9 to 10 
months [12]. No environmental stimulus could give this result. 

Though the whole cause of the periodicity cannot be endogenous, 
this does not mean that endogenous rhytlims play no part in its 
causation. It may be that in many species the rhythm is at base 
endogenous and is kept adjusted to the annual cycle by some external 
stimulus of which we are at present ignorant. Such a stimulus might 
be of almost any kind ; it would probably differ from species to species 
and need not always be physical. Marshall and Williams, for in- 
stance, suggest that the northward migration of the yellow wagtails 
in Uganda is stimulated by the passage of birds of the same species 
from farther south where they have been stimulated to migrate by 
environmental stimuli. The rhythm of gonad growth in Uganda 
would be endogenous and the birds would only respond to the stimula- 
tion when the gonads were in the appropriate condition. Another 
explanation of this example would seem to be that their migration 
southward is determined by environmental stimulation in Europe 
and the time of the northward migration by an endogenous rhythm 
of gonad growth starting from the time of their arrival in Africa. 

In the many species that live all the year round in apparently in- 
variable environments but yet are seasonal, it seems that there must 
be some environmental stimulus, physical or other, that controls their 
periodicity. For almost all of them we cannot say what the stimulus 
is and we can only admit our ignorance. Clearly this is a subject on 
which further work is needed. 



TROPICAL CLIMATES AND BIOLOGY — CARTER 441 

Lastly, I will take an example from physiology, and from an en- 
vironment very different from the swamps and equatorial regions we 
have so far considered. My example is the problem how small mam- 
mals are able to satisfy their needs for water in desert conditions. This 
has been studied by B. and K. Schmidt-Neilsen [13]. 

It has always been difficult to understand how such animals as 
jerboas and desert rats can survive without drinking in deserts where 
the temperature may rise to 130° F. (54° C.) at midday. There are, 
however, some characters of the desert environment and the animals' 
biology that go part of the way to help us to understand their ability 
to do so. 

First, the most striking characteristic of a desert climate is the large 
diurnal range of temperature, very hot at midday but cool and even 
near the freezing point at dawn. Dew is frequent in many desert 
climates, and Buxton [14] showed that grass blowing about on the 
surface of a desert and apparently entirely dry contained water to 
50 percent of its weight at midday, presumably derived from the dew 
of the previous morning. Secondly, these animals are largely 
nocturnal ; they avoid the extremes of midday heat in burrows. 

They may obtain some water by eating the grass or from dew and 
may reduce their water loss by sheltering, but it seems unlikely that 
they can wholly maintain their water balance in these ways. The only 
other supply of water available to them is the metabolic water formed 
in the oxidation of their food; 1 g. fat yields 1.07 g. water in its 
oxidation, 1 g. carbohydrate 0.56 g., and 1 g. protein 0.40 g. Schmidt- 
Neilsen set out to determine whether this was a sufficient supply. 

It should be noted that, as we should expect, desert animals are 
adapted in several ways to economy of water. They do not control 
their body temperature by sweating. Their sweat glands are reduced, 
and control of temperature by sweat is in fact impossible for small 
animals in desert conditions, for the amount of water loss required is 
far too large in proportion to their body weight. Sclmnidt-Neilsen 
finds that for a man of 70 kg. in the temperatures of a desert in day- 
time 1.47 percent of his body weight must be evaporated per hour, 
for the kangaroo rat {Dipodornys^ 0.1 kg.) 12.8 percent, and for a 
mouse (0.02 kg.) 21.5 percent. 

Then, again, their urine is more concentrated than that of other 
mammals. Comparable results are given in the following table. 

Concentration in urine 

Electrolytes N. Urea M. 

Man 0.37 (2.2%) 1.0 (6%) 

Rat {R. norvcgicus) 0.6 (3.5%) 2.5 (15%) 

Dipodomys 1.2 (7%) 3.5 (23%) 

Also, very little water is lost in the feces. The feces of Dipodomys 
have a water content only one-quarter of that of the rat's feces. 



442 



ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 




5 mq 



10 mg 



15 mg 



20 mg 



mg HaQ/ 

/liter oir 

Figure 1. — The water balance of Dipodomys. (After B. and K. Schmidt-Neilsen.) 

Putting these facts together Scliinidt-Neilsen draws the diagram 
given in figure 1 for the water balance of Dipodomys eating pearl 
barley without any supply of water beyond that present in the barley 
as preformed water and that produced in the metabolism (oxidation 
water). It shows that the water balance is positive at all relative 
humidities greater than 10 percent. Remembering that the animals 
spend most of the daytime in burrows, we may conclude that they are 
sufficiently adapted to live permanently in a desert climate without 
drinking. The rat is not quite in balance at a relative humidity of 100 
percent. It is of mterest to note that a similar balance was worked 
out by Krogh [15] for the seal {Phoca) living in the sea, which is for 
a mammal a "dry" environment since the osmotic pressure of sea water 
is greater than that of mammalian tissues and water must leave the 
body by diffusion. Krogh found that the seal was also in balance, but 
in neither case is any allowance made for water loss by the female when 
she is giving milk. 

I hope that these examples will have shown that tropical biology 
offers us many problems that repay investigation, and that the results 
are often not those that we should expect from our knowledge of 



TROPICAL CLIIVIATES AND BIOLOGY — CARTER 443 

temperate biology. There are many advantages besides these for the 
zoologist in tropical work, especially for the young zoologist. Perhaps 
the most important is that tropical biology is at a much less advanced 
stage tlian that of temperate comitries. It is much easier in the Tropics 
to find promising lines of work, and less likely to find that the work 
one is doing is in competition with that of others, or has already 
been done — the field, in fact, is much less crowded. It is also true that 
one lives closer to nature in the Tropics, and has greater opportunities 
to study animals in their natural lives. I know that it is for most of 
us impossible to get to the Tropics for a visit of a year or longer — 
and a shorter stay is hardly likely to lead to worthwhile results — but 
the fact is also true that when posts in tropical laboratories are adver- 
tised it is not by any means always easy to find people to fill them. 
I think that one reason for this is that the advantages of work in the 
Tropics are not sufficiently realized. 

REFERENCES 

1. Baker, J. R., and Harrisson, T. H. Journ. Linn. Soc. (Zool.), vol. 39, p. 

443, 1936. 

2. Carter, G. S., and Beadle, L. C. Journ. Linn. Soc. (Zool.), vol. 37, pp. 197, 

327, 1930-31. 

3. Carter, G. S. Journ. Linn. Soc. (Zool.), vol. 39, pp. 147-219, 1934-35. 

4. Carter, G. S. The papyrus swamps of Uganda. 1955. 

5. Beadle, L. C. Journ. Linn. Soc. (Zool.) , vol. 38, p. 135, 1932. 

6. Beauchamp, R. S. a. Nature, vol. 171, p. 7G9, 1953. 

7. Hesse, P. R. Hydi-obiologia, vol. 11, p. 1, 1957. 

8. Simpson, J. R., and Butters, B. East African Fish. Res. Org. Ann. Rep., 

p. 43, 1958. 

9. Baker, J. R., et ax. Journ. Linn. Soc. (Zool.), vol. 39, p. 507; vol. 40, pp. 

123, 143 ; vol. 41, pp. 50, 243, 248. 

10. Marshall, A. J., and Williams, M. C. Proc. Zool. Soc. London, vol. 132, 

p. 313, 1959. 

11. Marshall, A. J., and Roberts, J. D. Proc. Zool. Soc. London, vol. 132, p. 

617, 1959. 

12. Chapin, J. P. Auk, vol. 71, p. 1, 1954. 

13. Schmidt-Neilsen, B. and K. Biology of deserts, pp. 173, 182. Institute of 

Biology, London, 1954. 

14. Buxton, P. A. Animal life in deserts. London, 1923. 

15. Krogh, a. Osmotic regulation in aquatic animals. Cambridge. 1939. 



Outdoor Aerobiology^ 



By P. H. Gregory 

Head, Department of Plant Pathology 

Rothamsted Experimental Station 

Harpenden, England 



[With 2 plates] 

To THE sufferer from hay fever there "will be nothing novel in the 
idea that outdoor air contains the pollen of many different kinds of 
flowering plants. But the air also contains many other particles of 
biological origin, such as the spores of cryptogams, fungi, bacteria, 
and yeasts, and also protozoan cj'sts, some of which may also cause 
allergies. Some species in all the major taxonomic groups of plants 
have evolved means of introducing their spores into the turbulent 
layers of the atmosphere [6].^ Other organisms, however, are 
adapted to other dispersal routes, such as water or animal transport, 
and their spores seldom get into the air. 

The systematic study of the microbiology of the atmosphere started 
about a century ago, in the expectation of finding the source of epi- 
demic diseases such as cholera and typhoid. It is now clear, however, 
that outdoor air is not a serious source of human infection and it has 
been acquitted of complicity in the worst human and animal diseases, 
though recent American work shows that the agents of histoplasmosis 
and other fungus diseases of man are windborne. Outdoor air also 
conveys pollen, a major nuisance to hay-fever victims, and also in- 
fective spores of many important crop pathogens, such as the rusts 
and smuts of cereals. 

In effect, aerobiology began at the Observatoire Montsouris in Paris 
with the work of the bacteriologist Pierre Miquel (1850-1922), who 
elaborated techniques that enabled him, throughout the last quarter 
of the 19th century, to analyze daily the microbial content of outdoor 
air. However, the first to attempt consciously to develop aerobiology 
as an individual branch of science was a plant pathologist, Fred C. 
Meier (1893-1938). Unfortunately he was lost on a flight over the 
Pacific after publishing no more than a few preliminary papers ; these 

1 Reprinted by permission from Endeavour, vol. 19, No. 76, October 1960. 
* Numbers in bracliets indicate references at end of text. 

445 



446 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

papers served, however, to kindle an interest in the subject in the 
United States. Also noteworthy in the history of aerobiology was 
a thesis published in 1935 by K. M. Stepanov of Leningrad [9]. From 
research based on the work of these and others during three genera- 
tions it is possible — though our information is still meager — to picture 
the circulation of plant spores and other microbes in the atmosphere, 
and to assess its bearing on medicine, agriculture, and the biological 
sciences [4] . 

TECHNIQUES OF AEROBIOLOGY 

Much has been learned about the microbial flora of the atmosphere 
(here termed the "air-spora" and taken to include the pollen of flower- 
ing plants) by examining deposits on sticky-surface traps exposed 
to the wind. But results obtained by this method are difficult to inter- 
pret quantitatively, because the catches depend on factors that vaiy 
greatly. For quantitative information about the air-spora it is neces- 
sary to use apparatus that removes spores efficiently from a measured 
volume of air. Such apparatus requires a means of drawing a meas- 
ured volume of air through a filter, or of accelerating the air so that 
particles carried in it adhere to a sticky surface or are trapped in 
liquid. 

Suction to draw a measured volume of air through the filter medium 
is required by sampling devices such as Pasteur's aspirated plug filter 
and the newer membrane filters. Another series of devices act by 
forcing the air through a narrow jet and directing it toward a sticky 
surface. The General Electric electrostatic air sampler applies the 
dust-collection principle worked out by Oliver Lodge. Each of these 
sampling devices has its virtues and lunitations, but can give quanti- 
tative data if properly used. In outdoor work, high accuracy is not 
usually required at present, as results already obtained show that the 
spore content of the air differs enormously with place and time. 

The results of sampling by different methods are difficult to com- 
pare. Some samplers deposit particles directly onto a microscope 
slide, where totals of the larger spores and pollen grains can be counted 
visually and classified. Others allow bacterial and yeast colonies, 
f migus mycelia, or whole moss plants to develop in culture, and identi- 
fication of the cultivable fraction of the air-spora can then be more 
precise. This gain m precision of identification over the visual method 
is, however, balanced by loss of information about the total number 
of organisms, some of which may not be viable. A few workers have 
used both kinds of sampler simultaneously. 

THE AIR-SPORA NEAR GROUND LEVEL 

Most abundant in numbers near ground level are bacteria and 
fungus spores. When some abmidant species of plant is in flower, 



Smithsonian Report, 196!. — Gregory 



Plate 1 




^ o 

bo 

V 

O i> 



M O 



o Ji: 



S o 



o 

^' X 




-H tj 

"o 2 



i^ = o 



c c C 

t- c — 






Smithsonian Report, 1961. — Gregory 



Plate 2 




X 



c3 5 



o 



i S.8 

re CO •— I 
h 3 X 



a o 




h s 



^ 5 >*- 



bo -^ 



5 C5 



fire' — ' 
O c/2 C-) 



OUTDOOR AEROBIOLOGY — GREGORY 447 

pollen may overshadow bacteria and fungi for a time in mass, but 
even then not usually in number of particles. About 90 percent of 
the species of flowering plants are usually insect-pollinated, but only 
about 10 percent are adapted for wind pollination and habitually shed 
their pollen into the air. However, these wind-pollinated species are 
numerically exceedingly abundant and in the aggregate shed large 
quantities of pollen, with the result that the unfortunate sufferer from 
hay fever who is allergic to certain species of pollen finds his respira- 
tory tract a reliable indicator of flowering dates. In temperate coun- 
tries there are three main seasons for airborne pollen. The "tree 
pollens" in spring begin with the opening of the catkins of deciduous 
trees and end with the conifers; fortunately, sensitivity to tree pollen, 
and especially to pine, is rare. In early summer the grass-pollen 
season brings the greatest number of hay-fever victims. Late sum- 
mer brings a mixture generally grouped as "weed pollens." These 
include nettle in Europe and the highly potent pollen of ragweed 
{Amhrosia spp.) in North America; freedom from airborne ragweed 
pollen may be as valuable to an American health resort as a high 
figure for sunshine is in Britain. 

Airborne bacteria can be enumerated only by cultural methods, and 
because of the technical problems of culture we have no idea how many 
such bacteria elude detection. It is therefore impossible accurately 
to compare total numbers of bacteria and fungi in the air. However, 
it is clear that the numbers of cultivable molds usually much exceed 
the numbers of bacteria, and Miquel was clearly embarrassed by the 
immense numbers of airborne molds. His early work suggested 700 
bacteria and 30,000 mold spores per cubic meter; his long-term aver- 
ages of about 300 bacteria and 200 mold spores per cubic meter at the 
Observatoire Montsouris were obtained only after he changed over to 
using sugar-free culture media so as to discourage mold growth, a 
practice that has been followed by many later workers. The bacteria 
of the air include many micrococci and bacilli, but also a surprisingly 
large proportion of kinds that do not form spores. 

Visual examination of the fungus spores deposited on a microscope 
slide during continuous sampling with the Hirst trap in an arable field 
at Kothamsted Experimental Station [5] shows that the predominant 
organisms in outdoor air during the day in the warmer months are 
spores of CladosporiuTn^ a genus of saprophytic molds found on 
decaying vegetation ; the average was 5,800 per cubic meter of air near 
ground level during June to October 1952. This dominance of CJado- 
sporium is also true of many other parts of the world, and it is fully 
confirmed by cultural methods and examination of dust deposits. 
More study is needed to find out how Cladosporium becomes airborne. 
Second most abundant in the air-spora at Rothamsted were spores of 
the type known as ballistospores. The sources of these include the 

625325—62 30 



448 ANNUAL REPORT SIVnTHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

mirror yeasts (sporobolomycetes) that flourish on the surfaces of 
living and aging leaves, mushrooms, and toadstools, averaging 4,400 
per cubic meter and predominating at night. Recognition of ballisto- 
spores as numerically important components of the air-spora was long 
delayed by two causes. First, these very small spores were inefficiently 
collected by the sticky-surface traps used in much early aerobiological 
work, and, second, most microbiologists were not familiar with the 
spores of the higher fungi. Spores of various plant-pathogenic fungi 
such as the rusts, smuts, and mildews are often present in the air in 
large numbers, but their occurrence, like that of the pollen of flower- 
ing plants, is highly seasonal. 

The figures given above are for average frequencies over a period of 
many weeks of continuous recording. Hourly means are often much 
higher or lower; for example, Cladosporium may reach 100,000 and 
Sporoholomyces about 1 million per cubic meter. There is evidence 
that shorter-term fluctuation may be still greater: ragweed pollen in 
spot tests lasting a couple of minutes has given concentrations of over 
10 million per cubic meter [2] . 

Protozoan "eggs" in the air were estimated by Miquel at 0.1 per 
cubic meter, but later work by Puschkarew, based on fewer tests, 
suggests 10 times that figure. Blue and blue-green algae may average 
1 to 10 per cubic meter, but spores of myxomycetes are probably less 
abundant. Spores of ferns and mosses are sometimes plentiful for 
short periods. 

Concentrations of the few organisms that have been studied in 
detail fluctuate with a characteristic diurnal periodicity, as also doas 
grass pollen. Miquel found two maxima and two minima in the daily 
cycle of bacterial numbers when sampling hourly at Montsouris for 
over a year. Nothing similar has been attempted with bacteria since 
1884, however, and the work needs extending and repeating. 

Spores of fungi show various diurnal periodicities, but normally 
any one type has only a single daily maximum and minimum. For 
example, in England spores of Phytophthora infesfans, the fungus 
causing potato blight, are most abundant shortly before noon, whereas 
the numbers of spores of Cladosporium and of some rust fungi reach a 
maximum in the afternoon. Spores of Sporoholomyces, and basidio- 
spores of mushrooms, toadstools, and bracket fungi are all most 
abundant during the night. Little is yet loiown about difl'erences in 
these cycles in various parts of the world. These diurnal cycles are 
clearly determined largely by the effect of meteorological factors on 
spore liberation and dispersal in ways understood for only a few 
species of fmigi. Some, such as two important crop pathogens, 
Ophioholus graminis and Venturia inaequaJis (causing take-all of 
wheat and apple scab respectively), depend for spore liberation on 



OUTDOOR AEROBIOLOGY — GREGORY 449 

the wetting of the substrate by ram or dew ; they occur in the air in 
large numbers only after rain. 

THE ORIGIN OF THE AIR-SPORA 

Despite claims to the contrary, there is little doubt that most of the 
air-spora comes from ground sources on the surface, such as plants 
and vegetable debris, rather than from the soil itself. Only the 
sources of the protozoa, bacteria, and yeasts (other than the "mirror 
yeasts") remain in doubt. The air-spora is not rich in typical soil 
inhabitants but represents mainly organisms growing above the sur- 
face. Soil and surface dust raised by wind may possibly be the source 
of most atmospheric bacteria and yeasts, and the seasonal maximum 
numbers of bacteria in the air of temperate regions seems to be 
associated with the tilling of bare ground in spring or with strong 
winds. Splash droplets from marine and fresh water, and from wet 
soil, evidently help to make surface organisms airborne. 

THE AIR-SPORA OVER THE OCEAN 

Samples taken on ships show that, with an offshore wind, the in- 
fluence of the land-spora often extends to several hundred miles from 
shore, but that in midocean the air is nearly free from microbial con- 
tamination. The proportion of airborne bacteria requiring sodium 
chloride for growth is stated to increase in proximity to the ocean. 
Pollen can sometimes be found in quantity for some miles out to sea, 
but its concentration usually decreases faster as the land recedes than 
does the concentration of molds or bacteria. However, even in mid- 
ocean, on the coasts of Greenland, and on remote oceanic islands, tree 
pollen falls regularly in small but measurable quantities after being 
transported for hundreds or thousands of miles by the wind. 

THE UPPER TROPOSPHERE 

The presence of pollen and microbes in air layers above ground 
has been confirmed by catches on kites, balloons, and airplanes. Theo- 
retical considerations suggest that spore concentration should de- 
crease logarithmically with height, on the assumption that spores 
coming into suspension from the ground reach an equilibrium resulting 
from the rival actions of stirring up by atmospheric turbulence and 
sedimentation under gravity. In practice, concentration does at first 
usually decrease with height above ground level. On some occasions, 
and more often when several occasions are averaged, the decrease fol- 
lows approximately the logarithmic law up to a height of several 
thousands of meters. However, a decrease in concentration according 
to the logaritlmnic law is an ideal condition seldom attained in the 



450 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

atmosphere, and in practice a zone of increased concentration often 
occurs at a height of perhaps 2,000 or 3,000 meters. This fact has led 
to speculation about a so-called "biotic zone" in the upper air, but the 
explanation probably lies partly in the different histories of air masses 
at different heights, and partly in the washing of the lower layers of 
air by rain. Microbial concentration is sometimes high in the bases of 
clouds, and spores may perhaps become concentrated there by being 
collected in droplets poised on ascending convection currents in cumu- 
lus clouds. The effect of these processes would be particularly notice- 
able over the ocean, where the air-spora is not constantly being re- 
newed from the surface. 

Systematic measurements of spore concentrations at different 
heights over the oceans have still to be made, but observations made 
by different methods on ships and from aircraft suggest that the 
gradient may be the reverse of that over land. Far out to sea, the 
surface air appears to contain exceptionally few microbes, whereas 
several thousand meters up, the concentrations of bacteria, fungus 
spores, and pollens may be considerably greater. Studies by S. M. 
Pady and coworkers [7, 8], for example, indicate fungus-spore and 
pollen concentrations of tens to hundreds per cubic meter at 3,000 
meters above the North Atlantic, whereas G. Erdtmann [3], sampling 
on board ship, found values only a tenth or a hundredth of these. We 
thus have a picture of air masses carrying over the ocean the spore 
load they acquired during passage over land, and of the lower layers 
of air being gradually cleared in passage over the sea both by deposi- 
tion and by scrubbing by rain showers. 

It is remarkable that the microbial content of the atmosphere above 
the troposphere still remains almost uninvestigated. Samples were 
taken in the stratosphere by the balloon Explorer II in 1935, but there 
seem to have been no later attempts to sample the stratosphere. 

CHARACTERISTICS OF THE AERIAL DISTRIBUTION PROCESS 

The atmospheric concentrations reported in earlier paragraphs 
result from many spore sources. We must now turn to consider the 
problem of spatial distribution of spores liberated into the air from 
a single source. Common experience leads us to expect a decrease in 
contamination of air or of the ground as the horizontal distance from 
the source increases. This expectation is abundantly borne out in 
practice [10] and is a phenomenon exploited widely in isolating 
healthy from diseased crops, hay-fever patients from pollen sources, 
and seed crops from foreign windborne pollen which could cause 
genetic contamination. Plotted on a linear scale, a graph of the de- 
crease of contamination downwmd from a point source of spores at 
ground level typically gives an exponential-type curve. The media- 



OUTDOOR AEROBIOLOGY — GREGORY 451 

nisms underlying this characteristic "infection gi^adient" are probably, 
in order of importance: (1) turbulent three-dimensional dilution of 
the spore- or pollen-laden air mass by spore-free air as the impure air 
travels downwind; (2) appreciable loss of particles from the spore 
cloud by deposition on the ground, vegetation, or other surfaces, 
especially in the early stages of travel when the cloud is concentrated 
near ground level; and (3) loss of viability, which may or may not 
affect the result. In reality, the source is not a point, and its magni- 
tude and shape also affect the dispersal gradient; concentration is 
higher, and falls off less rapidly, if the source is a sizable area rather 
than a point. As would also be expected, raising the source above 
ground decreases loss from deposition near the origin. 

Prediction of the concentration of the spore cloud after a given 
distance of travel presupposes both an adequate theoretical treatment 
of the very difficult problems of atmospheric turbulence and also an 
adequate quantitative theory of deposition. Different theories now 
current predict different concentrations at a given distance, but agree 
generally with observation and experiment in predicting a rapid 
decrease in concentration with increasing distance from source. For 
instance, there is evidence that 90 percent of spores of the wheat bunt 
fungus Tilletia tritici and the clubmoss Lycopodiwn, when liberated 
just above ground level, are deposited within 100 meters of the source. 
Theory suggests that smaller particles than these would be deposited 
less rapidly, but there is little experimental evidence to support this. 

A paradox is apparent here. With such a high rate of deposition 
near the source, the effect of a point source at distances greater than 
a few hundred meters must be negligible, yet in spite of this the con- 
centration of micro-organisms in the upper air and for some distance 
out to sea is substantial. The paradox is probably to be explained 
by the fact that although the distant tail of the distribution from a 
single point source is indeed negligible, the quantity in the upper air 
over the ocean is the sum of the tails of the distributions of all the 
point sources present on the continent from which the wmd has 
traveled. 

The pattern of windborne dispersal differs from a Gaussian fre- 
quency distribution around a point source by having increased concen- 
trations both very close to the origin and at great distances, balanced 
by smaller concentrations at intermediate distances [1]. 

TERMINATION OF THE DISPERSAL PROCESS 

Infection gradients of some plant pathogens have been traced over 
distances of tens or hundreds of kilometers. Spores of some of the 
cereal-rust fungi migrate annually for many hundreds of miles in 
India and in the Soviet Union, and over the North American Conti- 



452 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

nent a northward migration of wheat-rust spores in early summer is 
followed by a return migration in autumn. Yet the distribution of 
the species and races of the rust fungi is not worldwide : oceans and 
large tracts of mountain and desert seem to present almost uncross- 
able barriers. 

Apart from death by desiccation or irradiation while airborne, the 
flight of a microbe ends either by dry deposition on the ground or by 
washing out of the air by rain, snow, or hail. The phenomenon of 
washout has never been systematically investigated, and sound tech- 
niques have still to be worked out. Results from examining hail are 
particularly unambiguous, because the surfaces of hailstones can be 
sterilized to eliminate possible contamination from the ground. Fall- 
ing raindrops sweep up a substantial proportion of the suspended 
microbes in their path, and all precipitated water brings down from 
the sky a rich flora of bacteria, algae, spores of fungi and mosses, and 
pollen. Precipitated water is not sterile, whether collected over the 
land, the ocean, or the polar regions. Although a spore is most likely 
to be deposited dry by sedimentation to ground or by impact with a 
surface within a few hundred meters of takeoff, most spores that 
escape into the free air probably have their flight ended by rain. 

Conditions in outer space beyond our atmosphere, as far as they 
are known, would appear to offer a highly uncongenial environment to 
unprotected micro-organisms. If attempts are made to detect viable 
spores in interplanetary space, special techniques will be required that 
owe little to the methods of aerobiology. However, experience gained 
in sampling our own atmosphere can be applied to some of the prob- 
lems of sampling in the atmospheres of other planets. Conventional 
methods of sampling aerosols of single bacterial cells indoors are de- 
fective when applied to taking samples of large spores from moving 
air, and we need to develop better sampling methods, especially for 
continuous sampling in culture. 

The glimpses we now have of the circulation of minute organisms 
in the atmosphere of our planet with all the implications in agriculture, 
medicine, and theoretical biology tantalize us by their incompleteness. 
It is unfortunate that exploration of our atmosphere has scarcely be- 
gun, and that we are not yet adequately equipped with technical meth- 
ods for the task, at a time when the opportunity of probing the atmos- 
pheres of other planets is hastening upon us. 

REFERENCES 

1. Bateman, A. J. Heredity, vol. 4, p. 353, 1950. 

2. Durham, O. C. Journ. Allergy, vol. 18, p. 231, 1947. 

3. Erdtmann, G. An introduction of pollen analysis. Chronica Botanica, 

Waltham, Mass., 1943. 



OUTDOOR AEROBIOLOGY — GREGORY 453 

4. Gregory, P. H. The microbiology of the atmosphere. London and New York, 

5. Gregory, P. H, and Hirst, J. M. Journ. Gen. Microbiol., vol. 17, p 135 1957 

6. INGOLD, C. T. Endeavour, vol. 16, p. 78, 1957. ' ' 

7. Pady, S. M., and Kapica, L. Mycologia, vol. 47, p. 35, 1955. 

8. Pady, S. M., and Keixy, C. D. Canadian Journ. Bot., vol. 32, p. 202 1954 

iTaT'"'^' ^' ^^* ^^'^''^' ^^°^" ^^'''' ^^°^^^P^« (^'^P- 2, OHTonax.), vol.'s, p. 1, 
10. WoLFENBARGEB, D. O. Llojdia, vol. 22, p. 1, 1959. 



Reprints of the various articles in this Report may be obtained, as long as 
the supply lasts, on request addressed to the Editorial and Publications 
Division, Smithsonian Institution, Washington 25, D.C. 



The Detection and Evasion of 
Bats by Moths' 



I 



By Kenneth D. Roeder 

Tufts University 
and 

Asher E. Treat 

City College of New York 



[With 6 plates] 



A CENTRAL objective of a large segment of biological and psycho- 
logical research is to provide a physiological basis for behavior. The 
first step toward this objective is analytic, and consists of determining 
the structure and function of neural components after they have been 
isolated from their connections with the rest of the nervous system. 
There has been much progress in this direction, and it is now possible 
to describe in terms of input and output performance the operation 
of many isolated sense cells, neurons, and muscle fibers, even though 
the principles of their internal operation are mostly not understood. 

The next step, the synthetic process of assembling this information 
on isolated neural components and relating it to the behavior of the 
intact animal, is hampered by two kinds of difficulty. The first appears 
to be methodological, but is somewhat hard to define. "Wlien one re- 
gards the evergrowing literature on the unit performance of sense cells, 
nerve cells, and muscle fibers, it is to experience that sense of dismay 
first encountered at a tender age when the springs, gears, and screws 
of one's first watch were strewn upon the table. The modus operandi 
of analysis or taking apart seems to come naturally, and the problems 
encountered are essentially technical in nature. Synthesis or the der- 
ivation of a system from its components seems to lack the a priori 
logic of analysis. 

The second general difficulty is technical, and stems from the fact 
that even the simplest behavior of the higher animals and man is ac- 

1 Reprinted from American Scientist, vol. 49, No. 2, June 1961. Copyrighted 1961, by 
The Society of the Sigma Xi and reprinted by permission of the copyright owner. Much 
of the experimental work reported In this paper was made possible by Grant E-947 from 
the U.S. Public Health Service. 

455 



456 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

companied by the simultaneous activity of millions of sense cells, nerve 
cells, muscle libers, and glands. Even if it were possible to register the 
traffic of nervous and chemical information generated and received by 
each and all of these neural elements during the behavior, it is doubtful 
whether the record would provide a meaningful description of the 
action. 

Even though these problems cannot be solved directly at the present 
time, they become less formidable if the behavior selected for study is 
simple and stereotyped, and only a small number of nerve cells are 
concerned in its execution. These conditions are partly fulfilled by the 
sensory mechanisms whereby certain nocturnal moths detect the ap- 
proach of insectivorous bats. 

ECHOLOCATION AND COUNTERMEASURE 

Bats detect obstacles in complete darkness by emitting a sequence of 
high-pitched cries or chirps and locating the source of the echoes. As 
Griffin (1958) and others have shown, this form of sonar is unbeliev- 
ably precise. By means of it, insectivorous bats locate and track flying 
moths, mosquitoes, and small flies (Griffin et al., 1960) . North Ameri- 
can bats, such as Myotis lucifugus and E'ptesicus fuscus^ emit chirps 
about 10 times a second when they are cruising in the open. Each chirp 
lasts from 10 to 15 milliseconds (msec.) with an initial frequency of 80 
kilocycles (kc.) dropping about one octave in pitch toward its end 
(see pi. 3, fig. 2). 

The frequencies in these chirps are ultrasonic, that is, inaudible to 
human ears, which cannot detect tones much above 15 to 18 kc. The 
higher frequencies used by bats make possible more discrete echoes 
from smaller objects. The chirps can be rendered audible by detecting 
them with a special microphone and rectifying the ultrasonic com- 
ponent. They then can be heard through headphones as a series of 
clicks. These clicks fuse into what Griffin has called a "buzz" when 
the bat is chasing an insect or avoiding an obstacle. 

Several families of moths (in particular the owlet moths or Noctui- 
dae) have evolved countermeasures enabling them to detect the chirps 
of bats. A pair of ultrasonic ears is found near the "waist" of the 
moth between thorax and abdomen (pi. 1, fig. 1). An extremely thin 
eardrum or tympanic membrane is directed obliquely backward and 
outward into the recess (dark area) found at this point (pi. 1, fig. 2). 

Internal to the eardrum is an air-filled cavity that is spanned by a 
thin strand of tissue running from the center of the eardrum to a 
skeletal support (pi. 2, fig. 1). This tissue contains the sound- 
detecting apparatus, consisting of two acoustic sense cells (A cells). 
A single nerve fiber arises from each A cell and passes close to the 



EVASION OF BATS BY MOTHS — ROEDER AND TREAT 457 

skeletal support, where the pair is joined by a third nerve fiber arising 
from a large cell (B cell) in the membranes covering the support. 
The three fibers continue their course to the central nervous system of 
the moth as the tympanic nerve. 

The traffic of nerve impulses passing over the three fibers from A 
cells and B cell to the nervous system of the moth can be followed 
if a fine metal electrode is placed under the tympanic nerve. Another 
electrode is placed in inactive tissue nearby. As each impulse passes 
the site of the active electrode it can be detected as a small action 
potential lasting about 1 msec. Since the tympanic nerve contams 
only three nerve fibers, it is not difficult to distinguish and to read 
out the respective reports to the nervous system from the pair of A 
cells and the B cell. A similar experiment in a mammal is practically 
meaningless since the auditory nerve contains about 50,000 nerve 
fibers. 

This method of detection shows that the A cells transmit organized 
patterns of impulses over their fibers only when the ear is exposed to 
sound (Roeder and Treat, 1957) . The B cell transmits a regular and 
continuous succession of impulses that can usually be distinguished 
from the A impulses by their greater height. The B impulses are 
completely unaffected by acoustic stimulation, and change in fre- 
quency only when the skeletal framework and membranes lining the 
ear are subjected to steady mechanical distortion (Treat and Roeder, 
1959). The B cell behaves in a manner similar to receptors found 
in other parts of the body that convey infonnation about mechanical 
stress on joints, muscles, and skeleton. The role of such a receptor in 
the ear of a moth is unknown. 

In the absence of sound, the A cells discharge irregularly spaced and 
relatively infrequent impulses (pi. 2, fig. 2, A). A continuous pure 
tone of low intensity elicits a more regular succession of more frequent 
impulses in one of the A fibers (pi. 2, fig. 2, B). The other fiber is 
not yet affected. Any slight increase in the intensity of the tone 
causes a corresponding increase in the impulse frequency of the active 
fiber. Wlien the intensity of the tone is increased to about tenfold 
that producing a detectable response in the more sensitive A fiber, the 
second A fiber begins to respond in like manner. Its action potentials 
are superimposed on those of the first (pi. 2, fig. 2, C and D) by the 
method of recording, but actually reach the central nervous system 
over their own pathway. This experiment reveals two of the ways 
in which the moth ear codes somid intensity. It is like an instrument 
having a graded fine adjustment (the intensity-frequency relation) 
and a coarse adjustment of two steps (the pair of A cells). Other 
ways of coding intensity will appear later. 



458 ANNUAL REPORT SlSnTHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

The moth ear responds in this manner to tones from 3 kc. to well 
over 100 kc, but there is no evidence that it is capable of discriminat- 
ing between tones of different frequency. It is most sensitive near 
the middle of its range, that is, to frequencies such as those contained 
in bat chirps. 

In plate 2, figure 2, it will be noticed that, in each of the recordings, 
the intervals between the successive impulses increase as the pure 
tone stimulus continues. In terms of the nerve code outlined above, 
the A cells report that the sound is declining in intensity with time, 
although in fact it was kept constant. This adaptation to a constant 
stimulus occurs in most receptors registering changes in the outside 
world. In terms of our own experience, the impact of our sur- 
roundings would be shocking and unbearable if it were not distorted 
in this manner by sense organs. The brilliance of a lighted room 
entered after dark w^ould continue to be blinding and the noise of a jet 
engine would remain unbearable. However, the A cells of the moth's 
ear adapt very rapidly to a continuous tone, and their full effectiveness 
as pulse detectors is revealed only when they are exposed to short 
tone pulses similar to bat chirps. 

In the experiment illustrated in plate 3, figure 1, a tone pulse of 3 
msec, duration was generated at regular intervals. It is similar to a 
bat chirp except for its regularity and the absence of frequency 
modulation. A microphone (upper trace) and moth ear (lower trace) 
were placed within range, and the intensity of the stimulus pulse was 
adjusted so that it just produced a detectable response in the most 
sensitive A fiber (0 db). The intensity was then increased by 5 
decibel - (db) steps as each recording was made. It will be seen tliat 
the microphone begins to detect the sound pulse when it is about 10 db 
above the threshold of the most sensitive A cell in the moth's ear. As 
before, the increase in frequency of A impulses is evident if the 5 and 
10 db records are compared, and a response of the less sensitive A cell 
appears first in the 25 db record where the extra peaks of its action 
potentials overlap those of the more sensitive A unit. In addition to 
these two ways of coding intensity, two more can now be recognized. 
If the interval between detection of the sound by the microphone and 
by the moth ear is compared at different sound intensities, it will be 
noticed that the tympanic nerve response occurs earlier and earlier on 
the horizontal time axis. In other words, the latency of the response 
decreases with increasing loudness. Also, the sense cells are seen to 
discharge impulses for some time after the sound has ceased, and tliis 
after-discharge becomes longer with increasing sound intensity. 



^ The decibel (db) notation expresses relative sound pressures. An intensity of 20 db 
Is tenfold that of the reference level (0 db), a 40-db sound is a hundredfold the reference 
level. 



EVASION OF BATS BY MOTHS — ROEDER AND TREAT 459 
THE DETECTION OF BATS 

These experiments with artificial sounds suggest how the moth 
ear might be expected to respond to a bat cry. A few laboratory ob- 
servations were made with captured bats. In one of these experiments, 
in collaboration with Dr. Fred Webster, the cries of a flying bat were 
picked up simultaneously by a moth ear and a microphone, and 
recorded on high-speed magnetic tape (pi. 3, fig. 2). Interesting 
though they were, these experiments served mainly to show that the 
full potentialities of the moth ear as a bat detector could not be 
realized within the confines of a laboratory, and efforts were made to 
transport the necessary equipment to a spot where bats were flying 
and feeding under natural conditions. 

Finally, about 300 pounds of equipment was uprooted from the 
laboratory and reassembled at dusk of a July evening on a quiet hill- 
side in the Berkshires of western INIassachusetts, Moths attracted to a 
light provided experim.ental material. The insect subject was pinned 
on cork so that one of its ears had an unrestricted sound field, and with 
the help of a microscope its tympanic nerve was exposed and placed 
on electrodes. After amplification, the action potentials were dis- 
played on an oscilloscope. They were made audible as a series of 
clicks by means of headphones connected to the amplifier and were 
stored on magnetic tape for later study. 

It was dark before all was ready, but bats immediately revealed 
their presence to the moth ear by short trains of nerve impulses that 
recurred about 10 times a second (pi. 4, A). The approach of a 
cruising bat from maximum range was coded as a progressive increase 
in the number and frequency of impulses in each train, first from one 
and then from both A fibers. It was not long before we learned to 
read something of the movements of the bats from these neural signals. 
Long trains, sometimes with two frequency peaks, suggested the 
chirps of nearby bats that echoed from the wall of a neighboring 
house (pi. 4, B). An increase in the repetition rate of the trains 
coupled with a decrease in the number of impulses in each train sig- 
nified a "buzz" as the bat attacked some flying insect in the darkness 

All this was inaudible and invisible to our unaided senses. With a 
powerful floodlight near the nerve preparation we were able to see bats 
flying within a radius of 20 feet, and some attacks on flying insects 
could then be both seen and also "heard" through the "buzz" as coded 
by the moth's tympanic nerve. However, most of the sounds detected 
by the moth ear were made by bats maneuvering well out of range of 
the light. A rough measure of the sensitivity of the moth ear to bat 
chirps was obtained at dusk on another occasion when the bats could 
stiU be seen. The A cells first detected an approaching bat flying at 



460 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

an altitude of more than 20 feet and at a horizontal distance of over 
100 feet from the moth — a performance that betters that of the most 
sensitive microphones. 

DIRECTION 

Since differences in sound intensity are coded by the tympanic nerve 
in at least four different ways, the horizontal bearing of a bat might be 
derived from a comparison of the nerve responses to the same chirp in 
the right and left ears. A difference in right and left responses might 
be expected only if each ear had directional properties, that is, a lower 
threshold to sounds coming from a particular direction relative to the 
moth's axis. 

Directional sensitivity was measured in an open area where echoes 
were minimal. A source of clicks of constant intensity was placed on 
radii to the moth at 45° intervals. The source was moved in and 
out on each radius until a standard tympanic nerve response was ob- 
tained, and the distance from the moth noted. Horizontal distances 
along eight radii were combined to make a polar plot of sensitivity 
(Eoeder and Treat, 1961) . The plot showed that, although there was 
little difference in sensitivity fore and aft, a click on the side nearest 
the ear at about 90° relative to the moth's longitudinal axis was audible 
at about twice the distance of a similarly placed click on the far side. 

This led to further field experiments in the presence of flying bats. 
The tympanic nerve responses from both ears of a moth were recorded 
simultaneously on separate tracks of a stereophonic magnetic tape. 
The tape was subsequently replayed into a tw^o-channel oscilloscope 
and the traces photographed (pi. 5) . In the upper record (A) the in- 
crease in number of impulses in each succeeding train suggests the 
approach of a bat. "Wlien the signals from right and left ears are 
compared, it is evident that the greatest difference exists when the sig- 
nal is faintest, the first response of the series occurring in one ear only. 
Wlien both ears respond, the differential nature of the binaural re- 
sponse can be seen first as a difference in the number of spikes gener- 
ated in right and left ears, second in the differential spike frequency, 
and third in the latency of the response, which is greater on that side 
generating fewer spikes. It is also evident that, as the sound intensity 
increases (presumably due to the approach of the bat) , the differential 
becomes less until the responses of right and left ears become almost 
identical. In another experiment, it was found that the tympanic 
nerve response saturates, i.e., becomes maximal, when the sound inten- 
sity is about 40 db (hundredfold) above threshold. From this it can 
be concluded that the moth's nervous system receives information that 
would enable it to determine whether a distant bat was to the right or 
left, but if the bat was at close quarters this information would not be 



t 



EVASION OF BATS BY MOTHS — ROEDER AND TREAT 461 

available. In plate 5, C, the "buzz" was picked up by one ear only, 
presumably because during this part of its performance the chirps of 
a bat are much less intense. 

It is tempting to estimate just how close the bat must be before the 
moth fails to get information on its location. If it is assumed that a 
bat is first detected at 100 feet and approaches on a straight path at 
right angles to the moth's course while making chirps of constant 
loudness, the differential tympanic nerve response would diminish 
throughout the approach and disappear completely when the bat was 
15 to 20 feet away. However, we have not yet determined how much 
of the information that we are able to read out of its auditory mecha- 
nism is actually utilized by the moth in its normal behavior. 

THE EVASIVE BEHAVIOR OF MOTHS 

Although the evasive behavior of moths in the presence of bats must 
have been witnessed hmidreds of times, it is hard to find an adequate 
account of the maneuvers of either party. The contest normally takes 
place in darlaiess, and, even when it is illuminated by a floodlight, the 
action is too fast and complex to be appreciated by the eye. The flight 
path of the bat and its ability to intercept and capture its prey have 
been studied by Griffin (1958) and his students. More recently, Web- 
ster (in press) has shown by means of high-speed sound motion 
pictures that bats become adept at using echoes to plot an interception 
course with an object moving in a simple ballistic trajectory. Many 
people have noted the seemingly erratic dives and turns made by moths 
when bats are near, and similar behavior has been described when 
moths are exposed to artificial sources of ultrasound (Schaller and 
Timm, 1950; Treat, 1955). 

In an effort to learn more about the behavior of moths under field 
conditions their flight was tracked photographically as they reacted to 
a series of ultrasonic pulses simulating bat cries. The sounds were gen- 
erated by the equipment used in the experiment shown in plate 3, figure 
1. The pulses were similar in form to those shown, although longer in 
duration (6 msec). Each pulse ranged from 50 to 70 kc. with a rise 
and fall time of about 1 msec. Pulse sequences up to 50 per second 
could be released on closure of a switch. The sounds were emitted by 
a plane-surfaced condenser loudspeaker mounted so as to project a 
fairly directional beam over an open area of lawn and shrubs illumi- 
nated by a 250- watt floodlight. 

The observer sat behind the somid generator and floodlight, holding 
in one hand the cable release of a 35 mm. camera set on "bulb," and in 
the other the switch controlling the onset of the sound-pulse sequence. 
Many moths and other insects flew out of the darkness into this flood- 
light arena. A number were attracted directly to the light and were 



462 ANNTJAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

disregarded. Many others moved across the arena at various angles 
but without marked deviation toward the light. When one of these 
appeared to be in line with the loudspeaker the camera shutter was 
opened and the sound pulses turned on. 

Some of the tracks registered by the camera as the illuminated moths 
moved against the night sky are shown in plate 6. Many insects, 
including some moths, showed no change in flight pattern when they 
encountered the sound. In others, the changes in flight path were 
dramatic in their abruptness and bewildering in their variety. The 
simplest, and also one of the commonest reactions was a sharp power 
dive into the grass (pi. 6, A, B). Sometimes the dive was not com- 
pleted and the insect flew off at high speed close to the ground. Almost 
as frequently the dive was prefaced or combined with a series of tight 
turns, climbs, and loops (pi. 6, C, D) . 

It is not known whether these maneuvers are selected in some random 
manner from the repertoire of individual moths, or whether they are 
characteristics of different species. However, Webster (in press) has 
shown that bats soon learn to plot an interception course with food 
propelled through the air in a simple ballistic trajectory. The random 
behavior elicited by simulated bat cries in the natural moth population 
seems to be a natural answer to this predictive ability in bats, m hile the 
sharpness of the turns must certainly tax the maneuverability of the 
heavier predator. 

The reacting moths shown in plate 6 were mostly within 25 feet of 
the camera and sound source, and were exposed to an unknown but 
probably high sound intensity. Under these circumstances, the evasive 
behavior appeared to be completely unorientated relative to the sound 
source, as might be predicted from the binaural tympanic nerve record- 
ings. In some instances, moths flying at a greater distance or only on 
the edge of the sound beam appeared to turn away from the area and 
fly off at high speed. This must be checked in future experiments. 

THE SURVIVAL VALUE OF EVASION 

In spite of the evidence that the moth ear is an excellent bat detector, 
and that acoustic stimulation releases erratic flight patterns, one may 
well ask whether this behavior really protects moths from attack by 
bats. 

This question has been answered (Eoeder and Treat, in press) by 
observing with a floodlight 402 field encounters between moths and 
feeding bats. In each encounter we recorded the presence or absence 
of evasive maneuvers by the moth, and the outcome, that is, whether it 
was captured by the bat or managed to escape. From the pooled data 
we determined the ratio of the percentage of nonreactors surviving 
attack to the ratio of reactors surviving attack. Thus computed, the 



Smithsonian Report. 1961. — Roeder and Treat 



Plate 1 




> S 






& £ 



t_ t* 



c «-> -^ 



-He—"' 






j; 5: 




Smithsonian Report, 1961. — -Roeder and Treat 



PUATE 2 




1. Diagram of the tympanic organ of a noctuid moth. The sensillum (S) contains the 
pair of acoustic receptors or A cells. The A nerve fibers are joined by that of the B cell 
(BJx) to form the tympanic nerve (IIINIb). TAS, tympanic air sac; B and SP, 
skeletal supports; TM, tympanic membrane. (After Treat and Roeder, 1959.) 




. Tympanic nerve response in Prodenia eridania to a pure tone of 40 kc. The occasional 
large spikes originate in the B cell. {A) Response to a sound intensity close to the 
threshold of the sensitive A cell. {B) Intensity 7 db above that in {A). (C) Intensity 
15 db above that in {A). (D) Intensity 23 db above that in (A). The less sensitive 
A cell discharges occasionally in (C), and frequently in (D), as indicated by the double 
peaks. Time line 100 msec. (From Roeder, 1959.) 



Smithsonian Report. 1961. — Roeder and Treat 



PLATE 3 




1. Tympanic ner\"e responses (lower traces) of Noctua {=^ Amathes) c-nigrum to a 70-kc. 
sound pulse recorded simultaneously by a Granith microphone (upper traces). The 
numbers indicate the intensity of the sound pulse in decibels above a reference level (0). 
The threshold of the sensitive A cell lies between and 5 db. The large spikes appearing 
in some of the records are from the B cell. The less sensitive A cell responds in the 
25 db recording. \'ertical lines, 4 msec, apart. 




The cry of a flying bat (Myotis) recorded b\' a Granith microphone (upper trace) and 
the A cells (lower trace) of a noctuid moth {Agroperina dubitans). The A spikes shown in 
the lower trace have been distorted in form by the recording technique. Time line, 
10 msec. Made in collaboration with Dr. Fred Webster in his laboratorv. 



Smithsonian Report. 1 9b I. Roeder and Treat 



Plate 4 



W) o 



OS CT! 
O - 






'^ 




H 


2 




"13 


^J 


h" 


re 


II 




0^ 


S 


-T3 


"-^ 




o 


a 




Pi 


t 


ID 


p 




c 


*- 


^ 





O' 




aj 


li 



rial 



3 

O 


Q 


o 


Si 




re 


oJ 


^_) 


c 


re 


:.^ 



Smithsonian Report, 1961.— Roeder anri Treat 



Plate 5 




Smithsonian Report. 1961. — Roedcr and Treat 



PLATE 6 




Flight tracks registered by various moths just before, and immediately followiiitr, exposure 
to a series of simulated bat cries. The dotted appearance of the tracks is due to the 
individual wingbeats of the moth. The beginning of each track appears in each photo- 
graph, and the moth finally flies out of the field. 



EVASION OF BATS BY MOTHS — BOEDER AND TREAT 463 

selective advantage of evasive action was 40 percent, meaning that for 
every 100 reacting moths that survived, there were only 60 surviving 
nonreactors. 

This figure is very high when compared with similar estimates of 
sui-vival value for other biological characteristics. It seems more than 
adequate to account for the evolution of the moth's ear through natural 
selection even if the detection of bats turns out to be its only function. 

CONCLUSION 

As with most investigations, this work raises more questions than it 
has answered. The role of the B cell remains completely obscure. 
There is no evidence to connect it with the auditory function even 
though it is located in the ear, and its regular impulse discharge is a 
characteristic feature of the tympanic nerve activity of many species 
of moth (Treat and Boeder, 1959. See also pi. 5). The manner in 
which the A cells transduce sound waves recurring 100,000 times a 
second into the much slower succession of nerve impulses remains a 
mystery, and the synaptic mechanisms whereby information from the 
A fibers is translated into action by the nervous system of the moth, 
await investigation. 

During the field experiments it was noticed that many other natural 
soimds initiated impulses in the A fibers. These included the rustling 
of leaves, the chirp of tree and field crickets, and, in one instance, ultra- 
sonic components in the wingbeat sounds made by another moth. 
Occasionally, the A fibers discharged regularly as if detecting a 
rhythmic sound, though none was audible to the observers and its 
source (if any) remains a mystery. There is no evidence that these 
identified and unidentified sounds are important in the life of a moth, 
yet it must be said that a moth can detect them, and a careful study 
of moth behavior in their presence would be of value. 

Several families of moths lack ears and show no response to ultra- 
sonic stimuli. Some of these, such as the sphinx or hawk moths and the 
larger saturniid moths, are probably too much of a mouthful for the 
average bat, and might find no survival advantage in a warning device. 
Others are of the same size and general habits as the noctuids and 
might be expected to suffer attacks by bats. Included in this group 
are some common pests such as the tent caterpillar. It will be inter- 
estmg to learn whether these forms owe their success in survival to 
some structural or behavioral countermeasure that compensates for 
the lack of a tympanic organ. 

In spite of these unanswered questions, we believe that some progress 
has been made in putting together the sensory information received 
by an animal, and relating this to what the animal does. That this has 
been possible in moths is only because of the small number of channels 

625225— C2 31 



464 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

through which acoustic information reaches the nervous system in 
these insects. Further examples of this favorable situation have been 
descrilDed in other insects, and still others are waiting to be explored. 

REFERENCES 
Griffin, Donald II. 

1958. Listening in the darli. Yale University Press, New Haven. 
Griffin, D. R. ; Webster, F. A. ; and Michael, C. R. 

1960. The echolocation of flying insects by bats. Animal Behaviour, vol. 8, 

pp. 141-154. 

ROEDER, K. D. 

1959. A physiological approach to the relation between prey and predator. 

In Studies in Invertebrate Morphology, Smithsonian Misc. Coll., 
vol. 137, pp. 287-306. 
RoEDER, K. D., and Treat, A. E. 

1957. Ultrasonic reception by the tympanic organ of noctuid moths. Journ. 
Exp. Zool., vol. 134, pp. 127-158. 

1961. The detection of bat cries by moths. In Sensory Communication, ed. 

by W. Rosenblith. M.I.T. Technology Press, Cambridge, Mass. 

The acou.stic detection of bats by moths. Proc. XI (1960) Internat. 

Entomol. Congr. (In press.) 
ScHALLER, F., and Timm, C. 

1950. Das Horvermogen der NachtschmetterUnge. Zeitschr. Vergl. Physiol., 
vol. 32, pp. 468-481. 
Treat, A. E. 

1955. The response to sound of certain Lepidoptera. Ann. Entomol. Soc. 
America, vol. 48, pp. 272-284. 
Treat, A. E., and Roeder, K. D. 

1959. A nervous element of unknown function in the tympanic organs of 
moths. Journ. Insect Physiol., vol. 3, pp. 262-270. 



The Honey Bee' 



By James I. Hambleton 

Collaborator, U.S. Department of Agriculture 



[With 4 plates] 



Of all the insects in the world probably no one species is more 
widely distributed than the honey bee. Its present habitat includes 
the whole of the earth wherever flowering plants occur — from the polar 
regions to the Equator. Honey bees are not indigenous to all continents 
of the world, but they have become introduced and established essen- 
tially in all parts occupied by man. 

If the statement seems too strong that the honey bee is more widely 
distributed than any other of our common insects, it can be said con- 
servatively that the product of the bee is the most widely produced of 
man's food. Even such common foods as wheat and milk are not so 
universally known. 

Honey bees were busily engaged in making honey and beeswax be- 
fore the advent of man. Honey and wax of the bee were waiting in 
readiness for our earliest ancestors at the beginning of their evolu- 
tionary climb. In time they learned of the sweetness of honey and 
that wax could be employed for many purposes. For centuries honey 
was the only sweet, and it and beeswax were regarded so highly by the 
ancients that they wove into their religious ceremonies in one way or 
another frequent references to honey, wax, and bees. Symbols repre- 
senting various phases of bee husbandry are found in the earliest 
recorded histories. Man throughout his existence has been closely 
associated with the honey bee. 

Honey and beeswax were used in the payment of taxes and as 
indemnity. Conquered tribes and peoples paid off reparations in the 
form of honey and wax. To the present day beeswax plays an impor- 
tant part in the rites of the church. A beehive forms the central mo- 
tive of the great seal of the State of Utah. 

^ This article In Its original form, under the title "The Indispensable Honeybee," first 
appeared In the Smithsonian Annual Report for 1945, pp. 293-304, lllus. In the inter- 
vening years the paper has proved so popular and useful that Mr. Hambleton welcomed 
the opportunity to bring it up to date, expand it along certain lines, and provide fresh 
Illustrations, for a new generation of readers. The present version is the result. — 
Editor. 

465 



466 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

In spite of this close association, which goes back untold centuries, 
the honey bee has not acquiesced to man's influence in the same manner 
as have the domestic animals of our present day. In truthfulness it 
can be said that there are no domesticated honey bees. The life and 
the habits of the honey bee are the same today as when man first dis- 
covered that the product of these well-armed insects was worth risking 
life and limb. The social life of the bee with its complex division of 
labor and its various sexual forms have largely defied all effort to 
change its nature better to adapt it to man's use. The free nature of 
the bee and its insistence on mating in the wide open spaces have 
been the chief stumbling blocks in efforts to improve or to domesticate 
the honey bee. The sexual development and mating habits of bees are 
different from those of domestic animals. As an illustration of this 
difference, the male bees, the drones, are produced parthenogenetically ; 
that is, the drone has no father but he can boast of a grandfather. 
Unmated queens can lay eggs that produce male bees and, even 
when they are mated, the mating has no effect on the male offspring. 

Following many attempts to control mating, it is now possible to 
report that important progress in this direction is being made. Bee 
scientists, through the use of anesthesia and delicate instruments, can 
impregnate a virgin queen with the semen from a given drone. The 
parentage of the resulting offspring is thus definitely known. Inas- 
much as colonies or strains of bees vary widely in temperament, color, 
ability to store honey, and to pollinate flowers, hardiness, and resist- 
ance to disease, controlled mating and careful selection should result 
in the development of superior bee stock. 

Research workers have delved into the early records of man and 
written volumes on the antiquity of beekeeping ; but, since the intent 
of this article is to acquaint readers with some facts of man's current 
dependence on bees and how they are handled, it will be necessary to 
leave the romantic past in favor of the equally romantic true story 
of today. 

There is more to beekeeping than meets the eye. To the average 
person it has to do with the production of honey and beeswax. Other 
than those who have had actual experience in keeping bees, most per- 
sons have little conception of how they can be handled and made to 
work for their owners. There is little mystery about the production 
of most of our common foods. There is no mystery about the source 
of milk, butter, and eggs, and the production of fruits and vegetables 
and their route to the ultimate consumer are matters of everyday 
knowledge. On the other hand how can bees — wild, undomesticated 
insects — be directed to produce honey and beeswax ? How are these 
products taken from the bees? Is it necessary to put honey through 
a manufacturing process before it is ready for consumption? 



THE HONEY BEE — HAMBLETON 467 

There was a time when beekeeping was thought of simply in terms 
of honey produced, but times liave changed. Beekeeping now has a 
much more important part to play. The value of bees as agents of 
cross-pollination far outweighs the monetary value of the annual out- 
put of honey and beeswax. 

Why do we hear so much about pollination these days? Is it a 
new fad or fancy, or is there some basic reason for emphasizing this 
subject? In grandfather's day and before his time this subject was 
seldom mentioned. The land was rich; there was little soil erosion, 
and for the most part the production of farm crops was satisfactory. 
As demands for agricultural products increased, fanning operations 
enlarged, and with this came many new problems, one of which was 
pollination. 

Sex plays as important a part in the plant kingdom as it does in the 
animal kingdom, but in a less obvious manner. Many plants contain 
both the male and the female elements on the same plant. This is true 
of all the grasses. Corn, wheat, barley, rye, oats, Kentucky bluegrass, 
and other grasses all belong to the great grass family. Pollen from 
the male part of the plant must come in contact with the female ele- 
ment if seed is to result. The corn tassel bears the male element which 
is the source of millions of tiny pollen grains. The long fine silks 
which protrude from the ends of an ear of corn are a part of the female 
element, one silk being attached to each newly formed grain. For this 
to develop to full size it is essential that a grain of pollen come in con- 
tact with the end of each silk. When this happens, the pollen germi- 
nates and sends a long tube down throughout the length of the silk 
through which the male germ migrates and eventually unites with tlie 
female cell. Without this union the ear of corn would be abortive 
and produce only a misshapen naked cob. 

Because of the extraordinary number of pollen grains, it has been 
estimated that an acre of corn will produce in the neighborhood of 
300 pounds of pollen. There is more than enough to go around, so 
that each strand of silk is assured its grain of pollen. Grass pollen 
is light in w^eight, easily blown about and carried by wind currents. 
All grasses are wind pollinated. 

Let us look at another kind of plant — one with a more conspicuous 
flower than is usually found in the grasses — an apple tree for example. 
Each apple blossom contains both the male and the female element. 
For an apple to become fully developed and symmetrical in shape, 
enough pollen grains must be deposited on the stigmas of the flower 
to ensure the normal growth of the full complement of embryonic 
seeds. When insect damage is not a factor, insufficient pollination re- 
sults in a misshapen and lopsided fruit. Most varieties of apple, 
however, like many other flowering plants, will not produce seed or 



468 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

fruit with its own pollen. The blossom of a Jonathan apple must 
receive pollen from an entirely different variety of apple. This in- 
troduces an interesting complication, Apple pollen is heavy and 
sticky; it cannot be carried by the wind. How then is pollen from 
one tree brought to another which may be many yards away ? There 
is only one answer — through the medium of insects which live on 
nectar and pollen. One has only to look into the branches of an apple 
tree at full bloom to realize that honey bees are the predominating 
flower visitors and are the agents that put on a set of fruit. 

The mode of reproduction, that is, seed or fruit formation, is slightly 
different from that of the apple in plants belonging to the cucumber 
family. Plants such as watermelon, cantaloupe, pumpkin, and cu- 
cumber, instead of having both sexual elements in the same blossom, 
contain two kinds of blossoms; one is all female and the other is 
all male. Here again pollen must be carried from the male flower to 
the female. 

A small number of hermaphroditic flowers also occur in this family 
of plants. Here again, since pollen from these plants is sticky and 
not wind-borne, the indispensable service of pollen-carrying insects 
is apparent. Crooked cucumbers and flat-sided melons are the result 
of insufficient pollen coming in contact with the female flowers. A 
pollen grain is needed for the development of each seed. A well- 
formed cantaloupe may contain up to 600 seeds, the more seeds the 
larger and sweeter the melon. How many of us credit the honey bee 
when we cut into a luscious breakfast melon ? 

There are still other types of plants in which a single plant pro- 
duces only male flowers, while another plant of the same species bears 
only female flowers. The wild persimmon and holly are good illus- 
trations of this type. Since the wind cannot be depended upon to 
disperse the pollen adequately, insects again come into the picture. 

There are approximately 50 cultivated crops grown in the United 
States that require insect pollination. In addition to those already 
mentioned, there are many other important plants — for example, 
alfalfa, sweetclover, red clover, alsike clover, white Dutch clover — 
which must have each tiny flower visited by an insect in order to 
produce seed and thus perpetuate themselves. Pollinating insects are 
either essential or highly desirable in the production of seeds of many 
vegetables, such as carrot, onion, cabbage, cauliflower, and brussels 
sprouts, to name only a few. 

Insect pollination is a "must" in our present-day agriculture, but 
why is it more important today than it was 30 or 40 years ago ? 

There was a time in the history of agriculture, and not so many 
years ago either, when it was not uncommon to hull 6 to 10 bushels of 
red clover or alfalfa seed per acre. It is only rarely that such produc- 



THE HONEY BEE — HAMBLETON 469 

tion is experienced today — in fact, the average yield of both these 
crops for the United States is slightly under 1 bushel per acre. Yet 
alfalfa and red clover grow just as well and blossom as profusely as 
in bygone days. But why has seed production fallen so low ? Could 
inadequate pollination be one of the contributing factors ? 

There was at one time in this country an adequate population of 
native insects to take care of all pollination needs. These are insects 
that maintain themselves and raise their young largely on pollen and 
nectar. Their whole livelihood depends upon their flower-visiting 
liabits. As farming operations expanded, the nesting sites of many 
of these insects were destroyed. Where the population of native in- 
sects could adequately pollinate a 10-acre field of clover or alfalfa, 
the same number of insects fall woefully short when the acreage 
jumped to several hundred acres. Since most plants have blooming 
periods of short duration, it is only logical that the numbers of pol- 
linating insects be stepped up in proportion to the increase in acreage 
if seed yields are to be adequate and profitable. We have gone ahead 
increasing acreages manyfold but have made no effort to provide a 
proportionate increase in the number of pollinators. 

Many factors have contributed to the decline of native pollinating 
insects. The plowing and clean cultivation of large tracts of land 
deprive these insects, many of which build their nests in the ground, 
of their natural nesting sites. Rail fences which were so difficult to 
keep clean of vegetation, afforded ideal places for these insects to 
nest. The picturesque rail fences have been replaced largely by well- 
kept wire fences, thus driving the pollinating insects farther and far- 
ther away from the crops which the farmer can grow profitably only 
when these insects are within flying range of his fields. Forest and 
brush fires have further decimated our population of beneficial insects. 
The tremendous increase in the use of pesticides is taking a huge 
toll of native bees. Honey bees are also subject to destruction by 
these chemicals. No way is known to conserve or to encourage the 
propagation of many of our native pollinators, while honey bees, in 
the hand of man, can be given some degree of protection from poison- 
ing. Honey bees are the only pollinators that can be moved from 
crop to crop in the numbers required for the pollination of these crops. 
The honey bee, the most numerous of all pollinating insects, is 
not native to the United States. It was brought to this country by 
the early settlers and became Imown to the Indians as the "white man's 
fly." It is now thoroughly at home in its new habitat. Swarms that 
escape from commercial apiaries make their way very nicely in the 
protection of a hollow tree or in the hollow pillars of our front 
porches, a place, incidentally, where they are not always welcome. 

The honey bee, being exclusively a flower-visiting insect, does its 
share in pollination. It is estimated that honey bees are responsible 



470 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

for over 80 percent of all pollination effected. When swarms of bees 
escape and go to the woods they are subject to the same hazards as 
the native bees. Consequently their population in a wild or native 
state is not building up. This leaves the only stable source of pollinat- 
ing insects in the hands of beekeepers. 

The decline in seed and fruit production has been a matter of much 
concern in those crops that require insect pollination. Utah at one 
time was our leading alfalfa-seed-growing State. In its best year, 
1925, Utah produced close to 25 million pounds of alfalfa seed. Over 
the years this figure fell to a low of less than 4 million pounds. There 
has been, however, an upward trend in production in recent years. 
Can it be that the grower of alfalfa seed is beginning to realize that 
Providence does not always bless the land with a sufficient number 
of pollinators ? The grower must make a conscious effort to provide 
pollinators, usually colonies of honey bees, if he is to realize maximum 
seed possibilities. 

What value can be placed on the honey bee's contribution to agri- 
culture, over and above the bee industry's production of honey and 
beeswax ? The agricultural statistics for 1959 give a total farm value 
of over $500 million for the following crops, all of which depend 
heavily on honey-bee pollination for seed and fruit: apples, pears, 
plums, sweet cherries, almonds, cucumbers, watermelons, cantaloupes, 
.is well as seed of alfalfa, alsike, and white clover. In addition to 
these, there are many others to which bees contribute their service 
as pollinators. 

The growing of seed and fruit involves many operations. To name 
only a few — use of viable seed and high producing varieties, cultiva- 
tion, control of insect pests and diseases, pruning, soil enrichment and, 
of course, pollination. Even if all the crops listed above were given 
perfect growing conditions, there would be no production if pollinators 
were excluded. In some areas, particularly in the Pacific Northwest 
and places in the Intermountain States, certain species of native bees 
are highly efficient pollinators. Bee for bee they can outperform the 
honey bee. However, their numbers are too small to affect significantly 
the pollination picture. Taking the country as a whole, honey bees 
account for 80 percent or more of all insect pollination. 

Only 11 of the primary insect-pollinated crops with a farm value 
of over $500 million are mentioned. Altogether, some 50 crops are 
benefited by bee visitation. Through the legerdemain of statistics 
we could say that honey bees, since they account for about 80 percent 
of all insect pollination, enrich agriculture to the extent of $400 million 
(80 percent of $500 million) annually not to mention the millions 
they add to other crops. To go a step further, since bees are a "must" 
in alfalfa and clover seed production and since the production of meat, 



Smithsonian Report. 1961. — Hamblcton 



Plate 1 




1. The worker honey bee. Gathering pollen to feed the brood is facilitated by the many 
finely branched hairs which cov^er her body. The same hairs serve as a brush to transfer 
pollen from flower to flower. 




2. The apiarist examines a frame of comb taken from the center of the brood nest. It 
contains brood in \arious stages of development, honey, pollen, and adhering bees. 



Smithsonian Report, 1961. Hamb'.eton 



Plate 2 




1. Worker bee on alfalfa blossom. This bee has "tripped" the flower for the purpose of 
collecting pollen. Note the pellet of ikiIIcii on the hind leg. 




Lg si^ ' 




2. Bee on apple blossom. In working over the sexual organs of a flower a bee may gather 
nectar or pollen or both and at the same time transfer pollen to effect fertilization. 



Smithsonian Report. 1961. — Hambleton 




#4» 



1. Stages of worker bee from egg to full-grown lar\'a. In a period of five days the newly 
hatched larva increases in weight 1,500 times. 




&smamgmmmmsmm 

2. Stages of worker bee from full-grown lar\"a to adult. Twenty-one days are required from 
the time an egg is laid until tl.e new adult emerges from the cell. 



Smithsonian Report. 1961.- Hambleton 




1. An apiary of a ccninncrcial breeder nl' queen bees. Small hives are utilized for this pur- 
pose. A newly emerged queen bee remains in the hive for a few days. At the proper age 
she flies forth to mate with a drone. The queen bee is then ready to be mailed to a 
customer. 




2. The installation uf a new apiary. I^u k. 



Ill the trade, consist 



of two or three pounds of worker bees and a mated queen bee. Such packages are 
sufficient to start a new colony. 



THE HONEY BEE — HAMBLETON 471 

milk, butter, and eggs depends heavily on clover-rich pastures and 
alfalfa, we might give some credit to the bees for these commodities. 
Further, we should not lose sight of the many indigenous, insect- 
pollinated plants that play such an important part in soil and water 
conservation. However, it is evident that a prejudiced person could 
place an absurd value on honey bees. It is equally apparent how diffi- 
cult it would be to arrive at a monetary evaluation of their worth to 
agriculture. It may suffice to say that without honey bees American 
agriculture would be in a sad way to the extent, certainly, of several 
times the value of the annual crop of honey and beeswax. 

Pollinating insects have certain human characteristics. They will 
not fly farther for food than they have to and always select the richest 
and most easily obtainable. Sweetclover is a favorite source of nectar 
and pollen for honey bees and for many other pollinating insects. In 
the case of most flowers, bees readily and, of course, accidentally trans- 
fer pollen to the stigmas irrespective of whether the primary purpose 
of the visit is to obtain nectar or pollen. An alfalfa flower is an 
exception to this general rule in that the pollen is not exposed until 
a pollen-seeking bee "trips" the flower. When alfalfa and sweetclover, 
to name only two plants competing for bee visitation, are growing 
within the flight range of honey bees, the preference of the latter for 
sweetclover is conspicuous. Under such circumstances the chances 
for a crop of alfalfa seed are slim. The alfalfa flower not only has to 
be tripped by insects — it also has to receive pollen from another alfalfa 
plant. 

By and large, insect pollination has been taken as a matter of 
course — something that nature ordinarily provides. In the event of 
crop failure it is seldom that insufficient insect activity is thought of 
as a reason. Neither farmers nor agricultural experts have paid much 
attention to how the proximity of one crop affects the pollination of 
another. Wlien the natural flora is more attractive to bees than the 
planted crops, meager seed and fruit production can be expected. 

As fields of single crops grow larger, adequate pollination becomes 
more and more critical. In our modern agriculture, pollination must 
be consciously provided. Since for most localities the number of 
pollinators is limited, attention should be given to the sequence in 
planting crops that compete for the visitation of pollinating insects. 
Plant breeders could well incorporate factors such as copious nectar 
secretion to make plants more attractive to pollinators. Protective 
nesting sites will encourage the propagation of wild pollinating 
insects. Growers can maintain apiaries of their own or better still 
they can encourage beekeepers to establish permanent apiaries within 
flight range of their fields. 

625325—62 32 



472 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

The State of Washington enjoys the highest average per-acre pro- 
duction of alfalfa seed, often exceeding 400 pounds per acre. There 
are 200,000 alfalfa seeds per pound. At this rate 1 acre produces 
80 million seeds. What a tremendous pollination job to obtain this ! 
With thousands of acres devoted to alfalfa seed it is not strange that 
there are not enough wild bees to take care of this one crop alone. If 
a pollinator fails to feed at an alfalfa flower, the blossom holds on 
hopefully for about 10 days then, barren, it withers and falls off the 
plant. 

Much the same story applies to red clover and other legumes. A 
good stand of red clover has enough blossoms to produce 10 or 11 
bushels of seed per acre. The average annual per-acre yield is around 
1 bushel. To what extent is inadequate pollination responsible for 
this low yield ? 

Bumble bees are among the most efficient of all pollinating insects. 
With their long tongues, considerably longer than those of honey bees, 
they are especially valuable in the pollination of red clover, which has 
a deep corolla from which honey bees can obtain nectar only with diffi- 
culty. Bumble bees are not so plentiful as they once were. The use 
of insecticides and other farming practices threatens to extinguish 
these useful insects. It is still the favorite sport of farm boys to 
fight bumble bees and rob their nests of a few thimblefuls of hard- 
earned honey. Why must the farmer continue to destroy one of his 
best allies — one which can contribute so significantly to bumper crops 
of clover seed, fruit, and melons ? 

The most immediate remedy for inadequate pollination is through 
intelligent use of honey bees. This is the only pollinating insect that 
can be moved from place to place and installed in fields when and 
where they are needed. Unfortunately, most farmers do not want 
hives of bees on their premises. Once in a while a farm animal or 
hired hand is stung or the owner himself may be the victim, with 
the consequence that bees are ordered off the place. Wliat a sad state 
of affairs it is that beekeepers actually have to pay rental to farmers 
for small out-of-the-way pieces of land upon which to place their 
beehives. This is one reason why apiaries are not a common sight 
as one drives through the country. The beekeeper has to place his 
hives far from the farm buildings and from good roads. In such 
locations the hives are subject to pilfering, and it is costly for the 
beekeeper to manage them properly. If farmers understood the part 
that bees play in more bountiful fruit and seed crops, surely they 
would welcome beekeepers with open arms. That day must come ! 

At the moment the important agricultural job of providing polli- 
nation, inadequate though it may be, is dependent on the market price 
of honey. Queer relationship indeed ! In volume of business done the 



I 



THE HONEY BEE — HAMBLETON 473 

production of honey cannot compare in importance with most branches 
of agriculture. Beekeeping is widely scattered. Almost every county 
numbers a few beekeepers. Because of the cost of transportation 
over so wide a territory, it is difficult to concentrate large quantities 
of honey for commercial distribution. The color, flavor, and con- 
sistency of honey vary depending upon where and from what it is 
produced. Buckwheat honey of our Eastern States has a strong flavor 
and is almost black; that from fireweed in the Pacific Northwest is 
water-white and mild in flavor. This great variation imposes a 
problem to food packers who like to maintain uniform and standard 
packs of whatever they merchandise. As a consequence, much honey — 
30 to 40 percent of the crop — is sold by producers directly to local con- 
sumers. Another reason why commercial processors of food may not 
be interested in honey is that it requires little or no processing. Honey 
can be made no better than it is when it comes from tlie beehive. For 
these and other reasons, this very delicious food is not advertised 
nationally. The price of honey is not stabilized or backed by large 
financial corporations. The vagaries of the market seem always to 
hound the beekeeper, and on top of it all his product has to compete 
with highly advertised manufactured foods, such as jams, jellies, 
and sirups. Whenever the price of honey falls, there is a lag in en- 
thusiasm for beekeeping and the nimiber of colonies is reduced. While 
this results in less honey per capita, perhaps not too serious a matter, 
what is more important is that fewer honey bees are available for 
pollination. Consequently, the production of many crops seemingly 
far removed from beekeeping is adversely affected. 

Growers of orchard fruits have learned that bees are necessary for 
a full set of fruits, and many of them rent colonies from beekeepers 
to place in the orchard during blossoming. One would suppose that 
such an arrangement was as beneficial to the beekeeper as to the fruit 
grower, but this is not necessarily the case. Apple-blossom honey is 
almost unheard of. Colonies of honey bees shortly out of winter quar- 
ters are not populous enough early in the spring to make honey from 
apple blossoms. Colonies have to be strong and populous before they 
can make more honey than the bees require for their immediate needs. 
Fruit blossom is good for the bees to build up on, but they seldom if 
ever make honey from it. Also many bees are poisoned through 
spraying operations and so more and more beekeepers are reluctant 
to move bees to the orchards even when paid for it. 

Growers of seed crops such as onion, carrot, and the various legumes 
are just beginning to realize that colonies of bees placed close to such 
crops pay big dividends. The bee industry as a whole receives rela- 
tively little rental for bees. For the most part, the services of the 
honey bee as a pollinator is free to those who most benefit from it. 



474 AJSTNUAL REPORT SIMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

This free service to agriculture is possible mainly for two reasons : 
( 1 ) Bee culture is a fascinating study and many persons keep bees as 
a hobby or part-time activity, and (2) consumers of honey maintain 
the commercial beekeeper, precarious though his livelihood may be. 
The pollination of various crops is thus a distinct gamble and one 
which may persist pending the time the public develops a greater 
taste than it now has for honey. Better honey markets and better 
returns to the beekeeper will be good insurance toward having depend- 
able insect pollination year after year. 

Although no accurate counts have been made of persons keeping 
bees, it is estimated that some 500,000 persons consider themselves as 
keepers of the bees. Of this number, not over 3,000 depend on bee- 
keeping as a principal means of livelihood. An apiary of 500 colonies 
is considered about the maximum number for a full-time, one-man 
outfit. Larger operations may involve 10,000 or more colonies. 

The bulk of the fraternity are amateurs, backlot enthusiasts who 
keep from one or two to several hundred colonies. The production 
in 1960 from the 5,430,000 colonies estimated to be in the United States 
by the Department of Agriculture was 260,128,000 pounds of honey 
and 4,728,000 pounds of beeswax, with a total value of over $48 million. 

Almost every State has an active beekeepers' association, and in 
many places the beekeepers are organized on a county basis. In addi- 
tion, there are numerous bee clubs of one kind or another. A wide- 
awake group of city beekeepers meets monthly in the heart of New 
York City. A beginner will find many kindred spirits and persons 
with whom to compare notes. 

To be successful with bees, one must like to work with them ; capital 
and equipment alone are not sufficient to insure success. Partnerships 
in which one party furnishes the finances and the other the knowledge 
are rarely successful. Beekeeping on a commercial scale is mostly a 
one-owner business. 

A successful, full-time beekeeper is a person to be envied. He is 
his own boss. During summer he works as hard as anyone, but after 
the harvest he can relax. Even at the height of the active season it is 
possible for him to attend a beekeepers meeting or go fishing. The 
bees do not require the daily attention that other types of livestock 
demand. 

The per-colony production of honey in the United States averages 
between 40 and 50 poimds. For individual operators, a hundred 
pounds per colony is not at all unusual. In favored localities and 
under good management, 200 to 400 pounds is possible. On the less 
rosy side, there can be complete failure in the honey crops, a failure 
so serious as to require feeding the bees sugar sirup to keep them alive. 

It is essential that the colonies be kept in proximity to an abundant 



THE HONEY BEE — HAMBLETON 475 

source of nectar. This may be one-quarter mile to 1 mile away from 
where the colonies are actually situated. Acres of nectar-secreting 
flora should be within the flight range of the bees. It is mostly a waste 
to plant a crop for your own bees. Bees from neighboring apiaries 
will help themselves and they may outnumber and outwork your own 
bees. 

Wliile there may be literally hundreds of species of flowers upon 
which the bees work for nectar or pollen or both, in any given locality 
there are usually not more than two or three plant sources from which 
the bees can make more honey than they require for their own keep. 
Thus there are in the United States, perhaps, some three dozen or 
so species from which 90 percent of the commercial honey is derived. 
The clovers, including alfalfa, stand high in the list of principal 
honey plants. Eed clover is an exception in that it seldom furnishes 
the beekeeper with extra honey. Other important sources are orange, 
tupelo, buckwheat, basswood, cotton, fireweed, star-thistle, sourwood, 
gallberry, and mesquite. Within limited areas, there may be other 
plant sources of a local nature that enable the beekeeper to obtain a 
surplus of honey. 

Since beekeeping is so unlike gardening or taking care of livestock 
with which most of us at one time or another have had limited ex- 
perience, a person who contemplates a career as a beekeeper, on either 
a large or a small scale, should start with not more than two or three 
colonies. This will keep the investment in bees and equipment low and 
still gives the beginner plenty of experience. 

There are some 250 beekeepers scattered through the Southern 
States and California who specialize in furnishing bees to beginners 
or to established beekeepers who wish to enlarge their operations. Two 
or three pounds of bees and a queen are shipped by express or mail in 
wire-screen cages. The cost for a 3-pound package with a lajdng 
queen is approximately $5 to $6, and contains sufficient bees, from 
11,000 to 12,000, to constitute a nucleus of a colony. If the new unit is 
established early, that is during fruit bloom, it may develop into a 
sufficiently strong colony to produce a worthwhile crop of honey the 
first season. The beginner, however, should feel satisfied if he gets his 
new pets in shape to produce a crop the second year. 

The hive equipment will run from $15 to $25 per colony, depending 
upon the type of hive and the amount of extra equipment purchased. 
A study of the catalogs of manufacturers of bee supplies will help in 
making a proper selection. 

The beginner should wear a veil when learning to handle bees. A 
timid or nervous person will find assurance in a pair of bee gloves. 
It is seldom that bees sting through clothing and so no special equip- 
ment is needed to protect the body. It is advisable to tie string around 



476 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

the trouser legs, and a lady might feel greater freedom from fear 
if she wears slacks. The beginner should take precautions to avoid 
stings until he becomes familiar with the behavior of his bees and how 
to handle them. Witliin a few weeks, and no doubt after a few stings, 
he will become so fascinated by their behavior, industry, and social 
organization that the occasional sting will not even dampen his en- 
thusiasm. Even so the veil should always be worn. 

All beekeepers, no matter how skillful they are in handling bees, re- 
ceive occasional stings. To the inexperienced, the reaction may at 
first be rather severe with considerable swelling and itching, but a 
season's work with bees usually results in the development of some im- 
munity against the venom. 

In a short time one should learn to handle bees with confidence and 
seldom receive a sting. The beginner soon learns that bees are cross 
and irritable on cold and cloudy days, and that it is best to open the 
hive when the weather is warm and the bees are busily engaged in 
the fields. 

Each colony has its own individuality. One may be quiet and 
gentle, while its next-door neighbor may be of a hot temperament. 
The gentlest bees are not always best for honey production, but on the 
other hand there is little pleasure in working with a colony that is 
ever ready to sting — no matter how much honey it produces. 

It must be kept in mind that bees are wild and untamed. The aver- 
age life of a worker bee during the active season of flight is only 
about 6 weeks, so that little or nothing can be done to train them to do 
what their owner wishes. By the same token there is no chance for 
the bees to learn who their master is. An expert beekeeper can go 
into a strange apiary and handle the bees with as much assurance 
and confidence and as good results as can the owner himself. It is 
essential, therefore, to learn a few of the fundamental principles that 
govern the reaction of bees. There are books and magazines galore de- 
voted exclusively to the subject of helping the beekeeper master the 
principal manipulations. 

Beekeeping is not all sweetness and honey. Like other types of live- 
stock bees are subject to several kinds of diseases. Some of these are 
confined to brood (the young unemerged bees), and there are other 
diseases that affect only the adult bees. Since some of the diseases are 
contagious, careful check should always be kept of the colonies to see 
that they are healthy. 

Each colony contains but one queen — the mother of all the bees ; her 
importance to the welfare of the colony cannot be overemphasized. 
If the queen should fail because of old age — and a queen may live 2 or 3 
years — or because of illness, the population of the colony goes down 
rapidly and may become so weak as to perish. The same persons who 



THE HONEY BEE — HAJMBLETON 477 

sell bees also sell queens, so that a new queen may be obtained in short 
order to replace a failing one. 

The greatest mistake that beginners make is in not giving the bees 
sufficient hive space in which to work. Often the beginner, in an 
effort to keep his investment low, will try to maintain the bees in a 
single-story hive. A good queen that can lay 1,500 eggs a day and 
maintain this rate for days at a time requires at least two hive bodies. 
These should be considered the sacred property of the bees themselves 
from which the beekeeper is not to remove any honey. During rainy 
spells and periods when it is too cold for the bees to fly, they still must 
have their daily food. Large reserves of honey should be on hand at 
all times. Honey that the bees make in addition to that stored in the 
two hive bodies the beekeeper can claim for himself. 

The nectar as brought by the bees into the hive may contain upward 
of 80 percent water, whereas honey contains only about 18 percent. 
This excess water has to be removed by the bees. For this purpose, 
comb space is required, so that the watery nectar may be spread over 
as large a surface as possible to hasten evaporation ; thus more combs 
are necessary to make the crop than are required to hold the ripened, 
finished honey. 

A colony of bees should never be allowed to fill the hive completely 
while the honey crop is being made. Shortly before every comb is 
filled with brood, pollen, or honey, a colony, sensing the end of its 
job, makes preparation to swarm. In this preparation there is a de- 
cided let-down in the storage of honey. Swarming is objectionable 
from this standpoint. 

Eeproduction, the natural dividing of a colony into two or more 
parts, is one of the involvements in the complex phenomenon of 
swarming. Perhaps the most obvious cause for a colony to swarm is 
that its living quarters are overly crowded. The colony has finished 
its job — part of the bees move on to new and more commodious quar- 
ters. Another colony is born. The old queen and the majority of bees 
old enough to fly leave the hive. If the swarm is not captured, the 
bees light off to the woods, find a hollow tree or a cavity in the wall 
of a dwelling and build a new home. In the parent hive will be left 
all the young bees, brood, and a number of queen cells from which 
one or more new queens will emerge. One of these will eventually 
head the newly formed colony. 

The bees that fly to the fields for nectar and pollen do not deposit 
the nectar in the cells of the hive. They turn the nectar over to young 
house bees — bees too young to fly — and it is these house bees that do 
all the work from that point on in converting the nectar into full mel- 
low-ripe honey. The combination of the young and old bees is es- 
sential to produce a crop of honey. Wlien a colony swarms, this very 



478 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

essential teamwork is destroyed. For best honey production every 
effort should be made to control swarming. 

There are other pitfalls in beekeeping beside diseases and swarm- 
ing. A weakened colony of bees, like a weakened animal, is preyed 
on by enemies. A colony that is not strong enough to keep its house 
clean becomes infested with wax moths which, if not tended to, will 
destroy the combs. A colony too weak effectively to guard its entrance 
to the hive is subject to attack by bees from stronger colonies. Not 
only will the robbers carry away the honey, but they will leave in their 
wake many bees killed in the last defense of their home. Colonies 
are often weak because they lack sufficient food. Honey bees do not 
hibernate as do most other insects. They are in a semiactive state 
within the hive throughout the long winter, and food in the form of 
honey must be available to them at all times. 

In spite of these drawbacks, there is much on the credit side of the 
ledger. It is not necessary to give bees daily attention. There are 
periods of weeks or months at a time when they require no looking 
after. Three or four hours to a colony throughout the year is ample 
to do all the work necessary. In the spring, and when the honey crop 
is in the making, a few minutes at the right time does more good than 
working with the colony for hours at the wrong time. This applies 
especially to heading off preparations for swarming. 

Beekeeping is a challenge to one's ingenuity as well as nerve. Col- 
onies are individualistic, and this has to be taken into consideration in 
managing them. A person who keeps bees always has an eye to the 
weather, knowing how sensitive these creatures are to changes in tem- 
perature, smishine, and wind velocity. One's interest in the plant 
world is immediately stimulated by watching the blossoms upon which 
bees work. 

Taking honey from the hive is not the least joy of working with the 
bees. No honey tastes so good as that produced by one's own effort. 
There is also the satisfaction in knowing that through your efforts and 
patience the fniit trees of your neighbors bear more bountifully and 
that as the busy bees wing their way to surrounding pastures, gardens, 
fields, and orchards they are enriching the entire countryside. They 
provide a function for which there is no substitute and give their 
keeper a food which man with all his skills has not been able to 
duplicate. 



Australopithecines and the Origin of Man' 



By J. T. Robinson 

Transvaal Museum 
Pretoria, South Africa 



INTRODUCTION 



The first australopitliecine specimen came into scientific hands 37 
years ago — the story of this and later discoveries has been told often 
and will not be repeated here.^ For roughly 30 of those years, con- 
siderable controversy existed as to the nature of these creatures. In the 
last few years fairly general agreement has been reached that the 
australopithecines truly belong with the family of man and not with 
that of the apes. Emphasis has now shifted to attempts to evaluate 
the nature of the relationship with true man, and from the early 
majority view that they were nothing but apes, the pendulum has now 
swung almost to the other extreme with the rapidly growing tendency 
to regard them as the earliest true men. The view here presented is 
less extreme than either of these. 

THE MAJOR PREHOMININE FEATURES 

The australopithecines are roughly intermediate in grade of organi- 
zation between the small-brained pongids and the large-brained, 
bipedal homines. They were erect walking, but had small brains. 
Well over 300 specimens, representing nearly a hundred individuals, 
are now known from South Africa. A small amount of material is 
known from East Africa and the Far East. Paleontologically speak- 
ing, this is a good sample and has provided much information about 
variation and other population characteristics. This is important 
since it is not individuals that evolve, but populations, and it is the 
business of the paleontologist to try to get back from the bits of in- 
dividuals that comprise his material to the characteristics of the popu- 
lations to which those individuals belonged. 

1 Reprinted, In expanded form, by permission from the South African Journal of Science, 
January 1961. 

' For an account of the South African discoveries pertaining to ancient man, see the 
article by Raymond A. Dart entitled "Cultural Status of the South African Man-apes" In 
the Smithsonian Report for 1955, p. 317. 

479 



480 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

The evidence for erect posture in the prehominines is good. The 
pelvis is known from one almost complete specimen as well as a 
number of incomplete ones, and it differs markedly, in structure and 
function, from the pongid or monkey type but only insignificantly 
from the hominine type. The lumbar region of the spinal column, 
the proximal and distal ends of the femur, and the nature and orienta- 
tion of the occiput all add to the evidence which shows that the aus- 
tralopithecines were structurally and functionally well adapted to 
erect posture and locomotion. 

The dentition provides considerable evidence of hominid affinity. 
The anterior teeth are small, compact, and built closely on the homi- 
nine pattern. Even the canines are within the size range of homi- 
nines. Other teeth that are especially diagnostic are the first lower 
premolar (P3) , first lower deciduous molar (dmi) , and lower deciduous 
canine (dc). In pongids the first two are semisectorial teeth usually 
having one prominent cusp, though a second may be partially devel- 
oped. In the prehominines and hominines P3 is bicuspid and dmi well 
molarized, having five cusps as in the permanent molars. Sophis- 
ticated statistical analysis of the lower deciduous canines has shown 
that the prehominine teeth are easily and sharply distinguished from 
the pongid form while they closely resemble, and in some cases are 
indistinguishable from, the modern hominine form (Bronowski and 
Long, 1952). 

These and other telling morphological features clearly indicate 
close affinity with hominines, but the small brain indicates a more 
primitive condition. The endocranial volume appears to be about 
500 cm.^ only — I know of no sound evidence at present indicating a 
brain significantly larger than this. The range was evidently about 
450 to 550 cm.^ and therefore well below the pongid maximum of 
750 cm.^ found by Schultz. The early hominines appear to have had 
endocranial volumes averaging about 900 to 1,100 cm.^, although 
estimated volumes as low as 7'55 cm.^ have been given. 

Along with this small endocranial volume in the prehominines, 
the braincase is relatively small and the face relatively prognathous. 
It is therefore evident that an important feature of hominines — the 
enlarged brain and the modifications of skull architecture conse- 
quent upon this — was not yet significantly developed in the known 
prehominines. 

TAXONOMIC DIFFERENTIATION WITHIN THE PREHOMININES 

The prehominines are at present commonly regarded as comprising 
a morphologically variable group without any significant taxonomic 
differentiation within it (e.g., Le Gros Clark, 1955). A considerable 
volume of evidence exists which shows that this is not the case — so 



AUSTRALOPITHECINES — ROBINSON 481 

much in fact that it is my opinion that there is a far more fundamental 
split within the australopithecine group than there is between one 
of these subgroups {Australopithecus) and the hominines. That is 
to say, that if one has to divide the known hominids into two groups 
only, there is a good case for putting part of the australopithecine 
group (Aiostralopithecus) with the hominines as one group and leaving 
the other australopithecine subgroup {Paranthropus) as the second 
group. 

Two different forms of australopithecine are known in South Africa 
at present. Australopithecus occurs at Taung, Sterkfontein, and 
Makapansgat Limeworks, while Paranthropus has been found at 
Kromdraai and Swartkrans. It is important to realize that the largest 
Paranthropus sample (160 specimens from Swartkrans) occurs less 
than a mile from Sterkfontein, which yielded the largest sample of 
Australopithecus (108 specimens). Geographic variation can there- 
fore be disregarded as an explanation of differences between the 
groups. Apparently the time difference between these two sites is not 
great, and since Paranthropus apparently occurs both much earlier 
and later in time without any significant difference in its morphology, 
one can virtually eliminate the effect of time differences as well as of 
geographical differences. One is thus in an exceptionally favorable 
position to assess the nature of the differences between the two popu- 
lation samples. 

Australopithecus has a dolichocephalic skull with a good hominine 
shape. A distinct low forehead is present, and the vertex rises well 
above the level of the brow ridges. The latter are poorly developed, 
and the postorbital constriction is moderately developed. The face 
is fairly wide, the nasal region is slightly raised above the surrounding 
level of the face, which is distinctly prognathous. The skull is gracile 
without any heavy bone or strong development of ridges or crests. 
The mandible is robust with a moderately high ramus and an almost 
vertical chin region. The dentition is morphologically very similar to 
that of the early hominines. Molars and premolars are very well 
developed, and the canines are fairly large but do not protrude because 
they are recessed into the jaw to a greater extent than the other 
teeth. The proportions along the tooth row are typical of early 
hominines. 

Paranthropus is very different. Although the endocranial volume 
appears to differ insignificantly from that of Australopithecus, the 
skull architecture is markedly dissimilar. The skull is brachycephalic 
with no trace of a forehead ; the frontal passes straight back from the 
well-developed supraorbital torus in a manner reminiscent of the 
condition in the gorilla. The vertex rises very little above the upper 
level of the orbits. Le Gros Clark (1955) devised an index to measure 



482 



ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 




Figure 1. — Facial and top views of female skulls of Australopithecus (left) and Paranthropus 
(right). The former is represented by Sts. 5 from Sterkfontein while the Paranthropus 
illustrations are based mainly on Sk. 48 from Swartkrans. 



this feature in primate skulls; it places Paranthropus right in the 
middle of the pongid range while Australopithecus is well outside 
this jjosition and very near to that of modern man. In all known 
adults with the appropriate area preserved, a sagittal crest is present 
occupying roughly the middle third of the distance from glabella to 
inion. The degree of postorbital construction is relatively greater 
than in Australopithecus^ and the zygomatic arches stand out well 
away from the braincase. The face is massive and wide. The enor- 
mously robust cheek bones actually project farther forward than does 
the nose, which is completely flat. The face is appreciably less 
prognathous than that of Australopithecus. The mandible is very 
massive with a very high and vertical ramus. A most unusual situ- 



AUSTRALOPITHECINES — ROBINSON 



483 




12 3 

LJ__I_I , „ 

cms '^■^^ 

Figure 2. — Side views of skulls of Australopithecus (top) and Paranthropus (bottom). 



ation exists in the dentition ; the postcanine teeth are massive, being 
distinctly more robust than those of Australopithecus^ but the canines 
and incisors are distinctly smaller than in the latter form. There is 
consequently a sharp change in proportion between the anterior and 
the postcanine teeth — a unique feature in hominoids. 

Paranthropus thus has a veiy robust skull with strong development 
of bone and a curiously spheroidal braincase with strong development 
of rugosities and crests, a wide, dished face, and a dentition specialized 
quite differently from that of Australopithecv.s. These descriptions 
are based on female skulls in both cases, but sexual dimorphism does 
appear to be well developed. Paranthropus was a heavily built, mus- 
cular animal which probably stood over 5 feet in height and weighed 
a few hundred pounds. Australopithecus clearly was very small and 
slenderly built; females apparently were no more than about 4 feet 
in height and weighed some 40 to 50 pounds. 

Besides these differences, which are obvious enough, there are other 
important dental differences. The first deciduous lower molar in 



484 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

Australopithecus is of the same type as is found in all known homi- 
nines, having a characteristic specialization of the anterior half of the 
crown. Paranthropus is unique in the primates in having a com- 
pletely molarized deciduous first lower molar without any trace of the 
specialization seen in Australopithecus and all hominines. The decid- 
uous lower canines also differ considerably in the two forms. 

The differences in skull architecture can be explained primarily in 
terms of differences of dental and dietary specialization. Paranthro- 
pus has very heavy crushing and grinding cheek teeth, but the an- 
terior teeth were clearly less important since they not only are much 
reduced in size, but also wear less rapidly than the cheek teeth in 
spite of their smaller size. Strong reliance on crushing and grinding 
implies a vegetarian diet in which considerable bulk is required to 
provide the necessary nutritive value. Much chewing is necessary to 
comminute the often tough plant material. Enlargement of the cheek 
teeth with specialization for crushing and grinding are common 
features of creatures adapted to vegetarian diet. Paranthropus ap- 
parently also ate roots and bulbs, since there is clear evidence of grit 
in the diet, in the form of small chips and flakes of enamel which have 
broken off from the occlusal margins of the crowns through strong 
pressure being applied over a small area. The powerful chewing 
forces which must have been generated in this robust masticatory 
mechanism have resulted in substantial thickening of the bone in 
which the cheek teeth are set and along the avenues through which 
the chewing forces are dissipated. These include the palate, cheek 
bones and jugal arches, lateral parts of the supraorbital tori, and the 
pterygoids. The heavy jaws needed powerful muscles; hence there 
is further robustness in such areas as the origin and insertion of the 
masseter and pterygoid muscles. The relation of large temporal 
muscles to relatively small braincase was such that even females ap- 
parently normally had a sagittal crest. On the other hand, the very 
small anterior teeth resulted in a face which did not protrude forward 
at all markedly. 

Australopithecus^ on the other hand, has none of these extreme modi- 
fications. Both skull shape and structure and especially dental mor- 
phology, are closely comparable to the early hominine condition. It 
therefore seems reasonable to conclude that the diet of this form was 
basically the same as that of early hominines ; i.e., they were omnivores 
eating both flesh and vegetable matter. This was probably the sort 
of diet still found in hunters and food gatherers of today. 

The adaptive difference between these two forms is thus consider- 
able. Their ecological requirements and direction of evolution were 
quite different. The degree of difference between them in these 
respects was of a distinctly greater order than between any two of 



1 



AUSTRALOPITHE CINE S — ROBINSON 



485 



1.2 



1.1 



1.0 



0.9 



=) 
o 
o 

z 

o 
o 




.• • par 




•* •aus 




S:::::;:5^_^-v^sin 




^ ^^~i- a us 


ab 


•esk 





M 



M. 



Mo 



Figure 3. — Size comparison of some mandibular teeth in five hominids. par, Paranthropus; 
aus, Australopithecus; sin, Pekin man; aus ab, Australian aborigine; and esk, Eskimo 
(East Greenland). This demonstrates very clearly the aberrant nature of the Paran- 
thropus dentition in which a marked change in proportion between the anterior and post- 
canine teeth occurs between the canine and P3. 



the living pongids. This is precisely the sort of difference that modern 
mammalian systematists regard as excellent grounds for generic sepa- 
ration. It is interesting to note that good evidence exists indicating 
that the vegetarian Parantliro'pus was present in the Sterkfontein 
Valley in times when the climate was apparently significantly wetter 
than when the more carnivorous Australopithecus lived there. 

In 1959 Leakey found a line australopithecine skull in Bed I at 
Olduvai, Tanganyika, and gave it the new generic name "Zinjanthro- 
pus" (Leakey, 1959). He regarded it as being more advanced than 
either of the australopithecines already dealt with. However, it is 
very clear that while some differences may be found between it and 
Parantliro'pus from South Africa, the pattern of structure and func- 
tion already described for the latter is very clearly developed. The 
same sort of modification of the skull architecture as a consequence of 
a specialized vegetarian diet is very obvious. No valid grounds appear 
to exist for regarding this form as anything other than a typical 
Paranthropus (Robinson, 1960). 

Some mandibular fragments from Sangiran in Java, which have 
been called "Meganthropus" and regarded as members of the "Pithe- 
canthropus" group (e.g., Le Gros Clark, 1955), seem to me manifestly 
to belong also to the genus Paranthropus (Robinson, 1953, 1955, and 
1961). They agree very closely with the equivalent parts of Paran- 



486 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 









Figure 4. — Basic cusp and fissure patterns in mandibular first deciduous molars of 
Paranthropus, Australopithecus, and modern Bush (from left to right). Upper row 
illustrates actual specimens drawn under a camera lucida to the same scale; lower rov/ 
illustrates diagrammatically the basic cusp and fissure patterns of the teeth in the upper 
row. The anterior half of the crown in Australopithecus and modern man is highly 
asymmetric but quite symmetric in Paranthropus. 



thropus from South Africa. In almost every feature the morphology 
is identical with that of the latter form, up to and including the greatly 
reduced anterior teeth coupled with veiy large cheek teeth. 

Paranthropus therefore appears to have been spread across the 
width of the Old World with little modification. If the new potas- 
sium-argon dates for parts of Olduvai (Leakey, Evernden, and Curtis, 
1961) turn out to be valid, it will mean that the timespan represented 
by the various Paranthropus specimens is rather more than a million 
years in length. In other words, this genus would be one with a wide 
geographical range and a long history. 

Australopithecus is not as yet known from quite so far afield. It is 
known from East Africa near Lake Eyassi (Remane, 1951 ; Eobinson, 
1953 and 1955), and the juvenile jaw from Bed I, Olduvai, a little 
below the "Zinjanthropus" level (Leakey, 1961a and 1961b) certainly 
does not belong to the latter type but bears a close resemblance to 
Australopithecus. Some apparently large parietal bones were asso- 
ciated with the jaw, which may mean either that Australopithecus 
and another larger-brained hominid were contemporaneously present, 
or perhaps that the form to wliich the jaw belonged had a larger brain 
than had Australopithecus and therefore represents a more progressive 
member of the same stock. The evidence is not yet clear, and more 
finds are needed to clarify the situation. 



AUSTRALOPITHECINES — ROBINSON 



487 



"TELANTHROPUS" 

From among the large nmnber of Paranthropus remains which have 
come from Swartkrans, I found a fragmentary upper and lower jaw, 
apparently of the same individual, another almost complete mandible 
along with a few other fragments of what is clearly a different type 
of hommid. Later an incomplete metacarpal came to light wliich 
probably belongs to the same form (Napier, 1959). This form was 
called Telanthropus capensis (Broom and Eobinson, 1949), but sub- 
sequently this name was sunk in favor of Homo erectus (Robinson, 
1961). 

The teeth are distinctly smaller than those of either australopithe- 
cine and agree very closely in size with those of the hominine from 
Java and Pekin now generally known as Pithecanthropus. From the 
space available in the mandible and maxilla, it would seem that the 
canine crowns must have been of about the size of those of Paranthro- 
pus^ but the roots were reduced compared to those of either of the 
australopithecines. Besides these there are some important characters 
fomid only among hominines but not among australopithecines. 
These are : (1) the structure of the nasal cavity floor and the subnasal 
surface of the maxilla, (2) the wide U-shape of the internal mandib- 







FiGURE 5. — Mandibular body contours in A, Australopithecus; B, Paranthropus; C, "Telan- 
thropus"; and D, Homo sapiens (American white). Both australopithecines have 
narrow interramal distance anteriorly; "Telanthropus" has the hominine condition in 
this respect. 

fi25,S25- fi2 S3 



488 AJSTNTJAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

ular contour with wide interramal distance, (3) the small distance 
between the occlusal plane and the mandibular articulation with the 
skull, and (4) the slender construction of the mandible. None of 
these features can be matched in the australopithecines. In some 
respects "Telanthropus" is actually more advanced in the direction 
of modern man than is Pekin man. On the other hand, in no known 
feature is "Telanthropus" less advanced than either of the austra- 
lopithecines. If the science of comparative morphology means any- 
thing, then surely "Telanthropus" must be classed with that group 
with which it shows closest and most fundamental resemblance. On 
the basis of the available evidence, that group is clearly the hominines. 
"Telanthropus" is often passed over lightly on the grounds that so 
few specimens are known that its affinities cannot be determined. It 
should be remembered, however, that these few specimens occur right 
among the two largest australopithecine samples known and therefore 
in the best possible situation for determining whether this form is an 
australopithecine or not. Here again geograpliic differences do not 
enter into the matter and time differences are in one case entirely 
absent and in the other at worst very slight. Furthermore, although 
not much is known about variation in "Telanthropus," a great deal is 
known about that of both australopithecines froin that locality. 

STONE TOOLS ASSOCIATED WITH AUSTRALOPITHECINES 

The cultural level attained by the australopithecines is of great 
interest and importance. Dart has argued that much evidence points 
to the australopithecines having used bones, teeth, and horns as imple- 
ments and weapons. One may, it seems to me, accept this in principle, 
but with the reservations that {a) the case should not be carried be- 
yond the legitimate evidence, and (&) the evidence so far available is 
largely concerned with Australopithecus and does not necessarily 
apply equally to Paranthropus. 

Tool using is well known among some nonprimate animals mani- 
festly less advanced than australopithecines about which there is 
now debate as to whether they should be classified as men rather than 
as near-men. In view also of the fact that the australopithecines were 
erect bipeds, it would be surprising indeed if they never used natural 
objects as tools. These considerations, coupled wnth the evidence 
provided by Dart (e.g., 1957a, 1957b, 1960), make it reasonable to 
conclude that at least Australopithecus^ and possibly also Paranthro- 
pus, were tool users. The distinction between tool using and tool 
making can sometimes be rather fine, and I do not exclude from the 
former a limited amount of constructive modification to natural ob- 
jects used as tools. If such modification is a regular and normal 
part of the situation, then one is dealing with toolmaking. 



AUSTRALOPITHECINES — ROBINSON 489 

In 1956 Brain found evidence of a stone industry in breccia lying 
loose on the surface at Sterkfontein, and in 1957 and 1958, in two 
seasons of excavation in that site, I was able to demonstrate for the 
first time the direct association of an australopithecine (Australopi- 
thecus) and a true stone industry. As a consequence most students 
accepted the idea that Australopithecus must have been a stone-tool 
maker. The discovery by Dr. and Mrs. Leakey of a stone industry 
with the Olduvai Paranthropus seems to have clinched the matter 
in the minds of most workers, who are now convinced that the austra- 
lopithecines were stone-tool makers and say so without reservation. 

However, it seems to me, as I have pointed out elsewhere (Kobinson, 
1958, and in Robinson and Mason, 1957), that this is far too facile a 
view of the situation. At Sterkfontein there is a considerable depth of 
deposit, which has yielded a hundred specimens of Australopithecus 
and not a trace of stone artifacts or even unworked foreign stone. Un- 
conformably overlying this is breccia which is demonstrably more 
recent by both faunal and lithological evidence. This breccia still 
contains Australopithecus but also a genuine stone industry, chiefly 
consisting of rock foreign to the immediate neighborhood of the exca- 
vation. This industry, it should be noted, is not of extreme primitive- 
ness; it is not the very beginnings of toolmaking. In the opinion of 
Dr. R. Mason, of the Archeological Survey, Johannesburg, the indus- 
try belongs to the early levels of the Chelles-Acheul culture (Robinson 
and Mason, 1957; Mason, 1961). Even if the most conservative esti- 
mate is employed, it must be regarded as late Oldowan ; perhaps it is 
most reasonable to regard the industry as being more or less transitional 
between Oldowan and Chelles-Acheul. This means that at Sterk- 
fontein a large deposit of breccia has yielded the largest known sample 
of Australopithecus but no evidence of a stone industry, while a 
breccia immediately overlying it, and only a little later in time, has 
yielded a well-established stone industry. This time gap appears to 
correspond closely in age with the Australopithecus deposit at Maka- 
pan Limeworks, where tons of breccia have so far yielded no such 
stone industry as that at Sterkfontein. That is to say, roughly 96 
percent of the known South African material of Australopithecus is 
not associated with a stone industry, but suddenly a stone industry 
representing a stage near the beginnings of the Chelles-Acheul cul- 
ture appears in reasonable quantity toward the end of Sterkfontein 
time. Wliere did it come from? The only reasonable conclusion 
seems to be that a toolmaker invaded the Sterkfontein Valley during 
the time represented by the unconformity — and that invader could 
not have been Australopithecus as he had already been there for a 
long time. 

It seems anything but coincidence that the stone industry appears 



490 



ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 



C/) 

3 






C! 


S 




1 


i 




« 


2 




5 


h 






PARANTHROPUS 



•a Q wi o *» 

* I'll 



' TELAN THROPUS" 
STONE IMPLEMENTS 



Figure 6. — Climatic curve for Sterkfontein, Makapan (Limeworks), Sterkfontein Exten- 
sion and Swartkrans sites, modified after Brain. The curve is based on porosity, 
reflecting degree of rounding of the sand grains in the breccia from these sites. Central 
line indicates present rainfall conditions. The distribution of Australopithecus, Paran- 
thropus, and "Telanthropus" is shown along with that of stone implements. 



in the Sterkfontein Valley at just about the time that the remains 
of "Telanthropus" also appear there. As has been pointed out, 
"Telanthropus" has some major features which can be matched only 
among toolmaking hominines but not among the austral opithecines. 
Wliat could be more logical than that it was the invading toolmaker ? 
It is of interest to note that at Sangiran in Java the hominine "Pithe- 
canthropus" occurs side by side with Paranthropus (in the form of 
"Meganthropus") and, apparently, over quite a long period of time 
(Robinson, 1962). At Swartkrans the hominine "Telanthropus" 
occurs side by side with Paranthropiis. In North Africa at Terni- 
fine, "Atlanthropus," evidently a member of the "Pithecanthropus" 
group, occurs along with a slightly more advanced form of the same 
sort of culture as that found at Sterkfontein. This is the opinion of 
Dr. Mason, who has examined both industries. 

Wliat then of the Olduvai Paranthropus and the stone artifacts 
found with it? The most favorable migration route south into 
South Africa is down the eastern side of the continent. Olduvai and 
East Africa in general — evidently an important area in primate 
evolution — lie almost directly north of the Sterkfontein Valley and 
right on the route. It is therefore difficult to conceive of "Telanthro- 
pus" at Sterkfontein without its having been present at some stage 
in East Africa also. If this was not so, then "Telanthropus" must 
represent an independent evolutionary' development of a hommine in 
South Africa and this is unlikely. 

The newer Olduvai finds just below the Paranthropus level may have 
very direct relevance here. The mandible is quite clearly not of 



AUSTRALOPITHECINES — ROBINSON 491 

Paranthropus type (Leakey, 1961a and 1961b). This I can confirm 
after having exammed the originals through the kind courtesy of 
Dr. and Mrs. Leakey. In the opinion of Leakey, it is also not of 
Australopithecus type, but to me it appears to bear very close re- 
semblance to the latter. The tvro parietal bones are of considerable 
interest in that they appear to be too large for either Paranthropus 
or Australopithecus. If this is in fact the case, then the implication 
is that a hominid with a larger braincase than that of either form 
of australopithecine was present at the site. If the parietals and 
the mandible belong to the same type of creature, then this would be 
a form closely related to Australopithecus. It has long been my opin- 
ion (e.g., Robinson, 1956, p. 171) that "Telanthropus" is a more 
advanced descendant of an earlier level of Australopithecvs than that 
at present laiowii. Therefore an early Austral opithecu8-\\kQ> form 
with a relativel}^ large brain could easily represent an early form of 
"Telanthropus" — on the new K-A dating of Olduvai (Leakey, Evern- 
den, and Curtis, 1961) the Bed I form would appear to be approxi- 
mately half a million years earlier than "Telanthropus" from the 
Sterkfontein Valley. However, these are very tentative ideas which 
must await confirmation of {a) the presence of a relatively large- 
brained hominid in the lower levels of Bed I, and {h) the fact that 
the creature represented by the parietals and that by the mandible 
are the same. A stone industry is present with these specimens, and 
this has led Leakey (1961b) to entertain the possibility that it, as well 
as the whole Oldowan industiy of Bed I, were made by this form, 
including also the industry associated with "Zinjanthropus." It is 
manifest that these tentative conclusions emerging from the newer 
finds at Olduvai are strictly consistent with the conclusions reached 
above from the Sterkfontein finds. 

If either of the australopithecines was to be a toolmaker, it is far 
more likely to have been Australopithecus. If it was not, as the 
Sterkfontein evidence seems to indicate, then it is very improbable 
that the vegetarian Paranthropus would be. Australopithecines, it 
will also be recalled, had brains well within the pongid size range. 
Finally, a characteristic feature of the earlier levels of the stone age 
culture sequence is the exasperating fact that remains of the makers of 
the tools are so exceedingly rare. Wliy then, if the australopithecines 
were toolmakers, should their remains be so common and stone tools 
rare when the normal experience is exactly the reverse? This seems 
a further argument against any of the australopithecines being tool- 
makers. "Telanthropus" remains, on the other hand, are very rare. 

I submit, therefore, that there is no good evidence in support of 
the thesis that australopithecines were stone-tool makers but that 
there is very pertinent evidence agauist it, favoring the idea that this 



492 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

group consisted essentially of tool users. Even the Olduvai evidence, 
which at first appeared to support the idea that australopithecines 
made stone tools, is now beginning to appear to oppose such a 
conclusion. 

ORIGIN OF THE AUSTRALOPITHECINES 

The available australopithecine material makes it clear that erect 
bipedal posture developed before the brain enlarged beyond the size 
found in the larger pongids. Some of the more obvious differences 
between pongid and australopithecine skulls are closely related to 
erect posture. For example, the altered orientation, reduced size 
and separation of the occiput into a portion above and one below the 
inion, are apparently directly due to the acquisition of erect posture. 
These occipital changes result in the isolation of the sagittal crest 
from the superior nuchal line and the absence of a true nuchal crest on 
that line, in a form like Paranthropus^ where muscular development 
is relatively great for the size of the braincase (Robinson, 1958). 
Also reduced canine size and the compactness of the anterior teeth 
and hence the nearly vertical chin region, are doubtless to some 
extent at least due to erect posture, even if indirectly. One may there- 
fore conclude that the essential factor in the origin of australopithe- 
cines was their becoming erect bipeds. This has been discussed else- 
where (Robinson, 1962), and the conclusion reached that the process 
occurred in two stages. During the first, pelvic changes were pro- 
ceeding under the control of selection which was not concerned with 
erect posture but which resulted in shortening of the innominate bone 
and broadening of the posterior portion of the iliac blade. This ren- 
dered the pelvis preadaptive for erect posture and allowed the second 
phase, adaptive for erect posture, to proceed. Animals with the 
altered pelvis would find when standing erect, as primates commonly 
do, that gluteus maosimus no longer functioned as an abductor but as 
an extensor of the thigh. Thus movement in this position would bo 
more efficient and would also allow the mobile, grasping hands to be 
put to much better use than had previously been possible when they 
were primarily concerned with locomotion. These advantages would 
result in rapid readaptation of the animals under the quite altered 
selection pressures now operating and would have opened up quite 
new evolutionary possibilities. 

Higher primates are vegetarians with very few exceptions. It is 
highly probable therefore that whatever form was ancestral to the 
australopithecines will have been vegetarian. Paranthropus was a 
vegetarian, but Australopithecus was an omnivore. As has been 
shown, the former is less advanced in the direction of man than the 
latter and retains more primitive features. It would thus appear 



AUSTRALOPITHECINES — ROBINSON 493 

possible that Paranthropus is a comparatively little-modified de- 
scendant of the original australopithecine stock. Evidence thus far 
shows that Paranthropus occurs under at least reasonably wet condi- 
tions, whether in the Sterkfontein Valley, Olduvai, or Java. This, 
and its dietary specialization, probably indicates that it lived in fairly 
well-wooded country. However, there certainly will not have been 
true dense forest over the whole of the Sterkfontein area. It is likely 
that their habitat consisted of broken forest country with grassland. 

ADAPTIVE RADIATION IN THE AUSTRALOPITHECINES 

There is no obvious reason why Paranthropus should have altered 
its way of life significantly as long as it was able to continue living 
in the sort of habitat in which it had originated. It was adapted to a 
vegetarian diet, and as long as its needs in this direction were met 
there is no reason why it should have changed. Nor does this way of 
life bring challenges which would tend to promote evolutionary 
change, as can be seen in the modem pongids. For example, the 
capabilities of the chimpanzee in the direction of tool using and even 
primitive toolmaking find little outlet in its natural habitat and 
way of life. If the new Olduvai dating is correct, then Paranthropus 
is known in essentially the same form over considerably more than 
a million years across the width of the Old World. During this time 
considerable change occurred in the hominine line. 

But clearly adaptive radiation did occur within the hominid group 
after Paranthropus came into existence and a very good reason for 
this seems to be present during the latter half of the Tertiary (Robin- 
son, 1962). This was the very considerable desiccation undergone 
by a large part of the African continent. In the early Tertiary the 
relatively moist conditions resulted in the expansion of the forests 
and therefore m spread over much of the continent south of the 
Sahara of conditions suitable for a form such as Paranthropus. But 
with the onset of desiccation the forests contracted, grass savanna 
spread, and by the end of the Tertiary, Kalahari conditions existed 
over a large part of southern Africa, extending at least into the 
Congo Basin. At this time areas suitable for Paranthropus will have 
been very much scarcer. 

It is not difficult, then, to visualize the steady but slow progress of 
the desiccation process. After a while australopithecine groups 
would begin to find it less easy to survive the critical time of the 
year — the latter end of the dry season — because of food shortage. 
Under these circumstances they will almost certainly have supple- 
mented their diet with insects, birds, reptiles, and small mammals 
such as rodents. As aridity increased they will have had to rely on 
this supplement to their diet more and more. In some areas the 



494 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

populations will probably have died out entirely, but it is not un- 
reasonable, in view of known evidence of primate dietary adaptability, 
to suppose that some groups will have succeeded in surviving on their 
modified diet. 

However, these changed conditions will also have modified the 
selection pressures operating on the population. It would seem ob- 
vious that intelligence would be at a premium since some ingenuity 
would be required to get enough to eat, whereas this is much less so in 
the case of a vegetarian living under reasonably wet conditions. The 
more intelligent ones would therefore be able to adapt better to the 
changing conditions and are likely to have been the parents of the 
majority of the next generation. Also, whereas the simplest tools 
suffice for a vegetarian and in almost all cases none at all are needed, 
tools would obviously be of great use to the population adapting to 
more arid conditions. Implements for digging animals out of holes, 
snares for catching prey, implements for bashing or opening up 
animals, would all enable far more efficient adaptation. 

The onset of drier conditions would therefore seem to lead in- 
evitably to strong selection pressure in favor of tool using and im- 
proved intelligence in an early australopithecine population remain- 
ing in the areas affected. Other adaptive features might also be the 
retention of relatively large (for hominids) canines, or the increase 
in their size. Also smaller body size will have had adaptive value if 
the ancestral Paranthropus was as large and robust as the known 
ones. Where food scarcity combines with the need to be agile to get 
enough to eat, litheness and moderate size are advantageous. This is 
especially true when the adaptive process has reached a point where 
meat eating involves killing antelope and other mammals larger than 
the small creatures eaten in the earlier stages of adaptation. 

In this manner it is easy to explain the origin of Australopithecus. 
But once this process had reached the point of producing such a 
creature, there is no reason at all why it should stop there. Improved 
intelligence and improved facility with tools would continue to im- 
prove adaptation and it would appear that sooner or later — and 
probably relatively soon — a stage would be reached when conceptual 
tjiouglit would begin to appear and tool using would improve to tool 
making as well. This point, of which tool making is, as it were, a 
symptom, seems a logical place to regard as that at which true man 
emerged. It was here that the fundamental feature of man, culture, 
became established. The tool-using phase was essential to its full 
establishment, but that was a transitional phase. Naturally there is 
no sharp division between the one and the other, but from our present 
position in time the point of separation between australopithecine and 
man is sufficiently defined to be useful. 



AUSTRALOPITHECINES — ROBINSON 495 

On this view it is clear that Paranthropus belonged to a relatively 
slow-rate line which did not alter in essentials after it had come into 
existence and was still extant after Australopithecus had become 
extmct. Progressive desiccation forced some early australopithecines 
to become meat eaters to some extent; not pure carnivores, but 
omnivores depending on both vegetable food and meat. The altered 
selection pressures directly due to this resulted eventually in in- 
creased brain size and toolmaking and thus in the emergence of man. 

ECOLOGICAL COMPETITION 

From the fact that Paranthropus appears to be well adapted to a 
vegetarian diet and is found in periods which are at least moderately 
moist, it seems that its ecological requirements differed significantly 
from those of Australopithecus. The latter appears to have been a 
typically hominid omnivore and is usually found under climatic con- 
ditions noticeably drier than those for Paranthropus. It is probably 
not valid to conclude that Australopithecus lived only under condi- 
tions of appreciable aridity; its food requirements were apparently 
such that there is no reason to suppose that wetter conditions would 
adversely affect its way of life. However, Paranthropus., being a 
vegetarian but not a grazer, would find the sort of semiarid conditions 
easily endured by Australopithecus unsuited to its way of life. It is 
quite probable that neither would have found wet, dense forest con- 
ditions congenial. 

Wliat deductions can be made about the ecology of these two forms 
are in agreement with, and closely related to, the morphological evi- 
dence which indicates that Paranthropus is an aberrant hominid, 
while Australopithecus fits very well as an early hominid with char- 
acteristics which are basically just like those of the more advanced 
hominids but less well developed. "Telanthropus" would appear to 
be one of these more advanced hominids with characters basically like 
those of Australopithecus but more advanced. "Telanthropus," as I 
have attempted to show, appears to have been a toolmaker and pre- 
sumably had a larger brain than Australopithecus. The ecological 
requirements of these two forms are therefore likely to have been very 
similar, and if they simultaneously came to occupy the same territory 
they would fijid themselves in competition unless there was an over- 
abundance of their necessities for life. But since the ecological re- 
quirements of Paranthropus were different, it could coexist quite well 
with either of the other forms. 

The evidence from the Sterkfontein Valley seems to support these 
conclusions. Au^stralopithecus lived in the valley for quite a long 
period of time when conditions were relatively dry. If my inter- 



496 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

pretation of the evidence is correct, "Telanthropus" then moved into 
the valley when the diy conditions began to ameliorate. But by a 
relatively short time later, when wetter conditions allowed Paran- 
thropus to move into the area, "Telanthropus" was still there but 
Australopithecus was no longer present — as could be predicted from 
the similarity of their ecology. The latter had either moved out of 
the region or suffered local extinction. Naturally, from the nature 
of the evidence, it is not known how long Paranthropus and "Telan- 
thropus" were synchronously present in the valley. But evidence is 
available elsewhere. "Pithecanthropus" remains at Sangiran, ac- 
cording to von Koenigswald, came from both the Putjangan black 
clay and the later Kabuh conglomerate, while "Meganthropus" came 
from the former. But the 1953 mandible of the latter from that site, 
according to Marks ( 1953) , was found loose in a lump of conglomerate. 
Therefore these two, a hominine and a Paranthropus^ evidently oc- 
curred together in this area over a considerable period of time. 

If "Telanthropus" is ignored in the Sterkfontein Valley, then it 
is not obvious why Australopithecus is not jo resent at either S wartkrans 
or Kromdraai, because the differences of ecology between it and 
Paranthropus would not result in the one displacing the other. 

The continued existence of Paranthropus long after Australopithe- 
cus is also perfectly reasonable on this interpretation of ecological 
differences. The rise of hominines would be disastrous for Austra- 
lopithecus^ who would survive only so long as he remained in areas 
not occupied or invaded by hominines. Inevitably this australopithe- 
cine would be exterminated. But since this does not apply to Paran- 
thropus^ its extinction would take longer and would not have depended 
on direct ecological competition. 

TELANTHROPUS AND THE HOMININES 

We have seen that Paranthropus and Australopithecus are very 
different creatures, ecologically quite differently adapted and mor- 
phologically quite distinct. "Telanthropus" must be classed with 
the hominines on morphological grounds, not the australopithecines. 
While this form clearly does not belong with either of the australo- 
pithecines, the question remains whether it is also a distinct form 
among the hominines. Answering that question requires a recon- 
sideration of the whole hominid group, and to do that thoroughly 
would require a paper to itself. 

Making the type of distinction that is so clear in the australopithe- 
cine group within the hominines seems to me out of the question. 
There is no evidence of which I am aware which suggests that any 
major adaptational differences existed that could be of generic quality 
and magnitude. The morphological differences are of a low order. 



AUSTRALOPITHECINES — ROBINSON 497 

Probably the chief variable is brain size, the early "Pithecanthropus" 
forms being relatively small brained and hence with a slightly differ- 
ently shaped braincase. But the known range in brain size of the 
earliest hominines can be accommodated entirely within the observed 
range of modern man. The dentition was also relatively robust in 
the early forms, hence the face was fairly robust and prognathous. 
But the dental and facial changes appear to be part of a continuous 
sequence of modification of no great magnitude. There is no evi- 
dence to show that there were several lines in which quite different 
things were happening. From the amount of probable fragmenta- 
tion of the early human population of the Old World, it is to be 
expected that there were now and then, if not all the time, different 
streams of evolution in which the changes were not identical or pro- 
ceeding at the same rate. But what was happening in these various 
lines of very low phyletic valence was essentially the same thing, so 
that the characteristics of all the groups still overlapped to a very 
marked degree. 

The nature of these differences and the lack of any significant di- 
vergence of ecological requirements fit well into the picture of species 
differences within a well-defuied genus among modern vertebrates. 
Furthermore, it seems clear that once the hominines were well 
launched on their path of cultural development, the character of 
their evolutionary mechanism would have been modified. As Mayr 
(1950) has pointed out, man occupies a wider range of environments 
than any other animal. This would clearly seem to be a result of 
his capacity for artificial adaptation. He can adapt himself to arctic 
or to tropical conditions without significant change in his morphology 
or physiology — in contrast to what occurs in other animals in such 
cases. This is not to suggest that natural selection does not operate 
on culture-bearing man — merely that its effects are modified by arti- 
ficial adaptation. 

This capacity for artificial adaptation reduces his capacity to speci- 
ate. Natural adaptation, mider the control of natural selection, to 
different environmental conditions is the normal basis of speciation 
and hence also of the achievement of greater levels of taxonomic 
distinction. Eeduced rate of speciation and the more recent tendency 
to interbreed increasingly over a wide area, have reduced very con- 
siderably the possibilities of significant adaptive radiation within the 
hominines. 

For these reasons, it seems to me that the hominines must all be 
included witliin a single genus. Homo. This was suggested a decade 
ago by Mayr (1950) as part of a taxonomic scheme which included 
other aspects which do not appear to me to be valid. "Pithecanthro- 
pus" should therefore be reduced simply to a species of Homo: H. 



498 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 




A. Qfiicanus 



PARANTHHOPUS 



A US THALOWITHEC US 



Figure 7. — Schematic representation of relationship between Paranthropus, Australo- 
pithecus, and Homo. The hatched zone represents approximately the time period from 
which the australopithecines and "Telanthropus" are known. 



erectus. H. sapiens appears to be tlie only other valid species, which 
includes Neanderthal man as no more than a subspecies. Space short- 
age precludes further discussion of this topic save only to say that 
in this scheme "Telanthropus" becomes H. erectus. For this reason 
the genus Telanthropus (originally created by Broom and me in 1949) 
was simk (Robinson, 1961) . 

This scheme reduces the contents of the whole family Hominidae 
to three genera only: Paranthropus., Australopithecus, and Homo. 
But it should be clearly recognized that these genera are not of the 
same sort or of equal magnitude. Paranthropus and Australopithe- 
c^is are validly distinct on any gromids. They were divergent, adap- 
tively well separated stocks which represented an adaptive radiation 
within the prehominines and could have occupied the same territory 



AUSTRALOPITHECINES — ROBINSON 499 

successfully for a long time. Both did in fact exist synchronously 
in Africa over a substantial period of time, though at present they 
are not known to have been sympatric. But Australopithecus and 
Homo are much more closely related and are probably two phases 
of the same phyletic sequence, though evidently one species of Aus- 
tralopithecus was contemporaneous for a short time with an early 
H. erectus in the Sterkfontein Valley. This overlap in time appears 
to have been short; the ecological similarity between the two makes 
it imlikely that it could have been long anywhere. But there is no 
sharp discontmuity between Australopithecus and Homo — except in 
brain size in the known specimens. But clearly there must have been 
at least one line in which this gap also was bridged. So, while it is 
clearly convenient to keep a generic distinction between the two 
groups, it should be recognized that this is not a distinction of the 
same type as that between Paranthropus and Australopithecus or 
Paranthropus and Homo. This is just another of the numerous ex- 
amples where the conventional Linnean taxonomic approach breaks 
down. This "vertical" type of arbitrary taxonomic distinction — as 
opposed to the "horizontal"' taxonomy of contemporaneous forms — 
is one of the troublesome things which the paleontologist has learned 
to live with but which does not trouble the neozoologist. 

REFERENCES 

Bronowski, J., and Long, W. M. 

1952. Statistics of discriminatiou iu anthropology. Amer. Journ. Phys. 

Anthrop., vol. 10, p. 385. 
Broom, R., and Robinson, J. T. 

1949. A new type of fossil man. Nature, vol. 161, p. 322. 
Dart, R. 

1957a. The osteodontokeratic culture of australopithecines . Transvaal Mus. 

Mom. 10. 
1957b. The Makapansgat australopithecine osteodontokeratic culture. Proc. 
3d ran. African Cougr. Prehist., Livingstone, 1955, p. 161. 

1960. The bone-tool manufacturing ability of Ausiralopithecus promctheus. 

Amer. Anthrop., vol. 62, p. 134. 
Leakey, L. S. B. 

1959. A new fossil skull from Olduvai. Nature, vol. 184, p. 491. 

1961a. New finds at Olduvai Gorge. Nature, vol, 189, p. 649. 

1961b. The juvenile mandible from Olduvai. Nature, vol. 191, p. 417. 
Leakey, L. S. B. ; E\^rnden, J. F. ; and Curtis, G. H. 

1961. Age of Bed I, Olduvai Gorge, Tanganyika. Nature, vol. 191, p. 478. 
Le Gros Clark, W. E. 

1955. The fossil evidence for human evolution. University of Chicago Press. 
Marks, P. 

1953. Preliminary note on the discovery of a nev/ jaw of Meganthropus 

von Koeningswald in the Lower Middle Pleistocene of Sangiran, 
Central Java. Indonesian Journ. Nat. Sci., Nos. 1, 2, and 3. 



500 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSOIHAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

Mason, R. 

1961. The earliest tool-makers in South Africa. South African Journ. Sci., 
vol. 57, p. 13. 
Mate, E. 

1950. Taxonomic categories in fossil hominids. Cold Spring Harbor Sym- 

posium on Quant. Biol., vol. 15, p. 109. 
Napier, J. R. 

1959. Fossil metacarpals from Swartkrans. British Mus. (Nat. Hist.) : 

Fossil Mammals of Africa, No. 17. 
Remane, a. 

1951. Die Zahne des Meganthropus africanus. Zeitschr. Morphol. Anthrop., 

vol. 42, p. 311. 
Robinson, J, T, 

1953. Meganthropus, australopithecines and hominids. Amer. Journ. Phys. 
Anthrop., vol. 11, p. 1. 

1955. Further remarks on the relationship between Meganthropus and 

australopithecines. Amer. Journ. Phys. Anthrop., vol. 13, p. 429. 

1956. The dentition of the Australopithecinae. Transvaal Mus. Mem. 9. 
1958. Cranial cresting patterns and their significance in the Hominoidea. 

Amer. Journ. Phys. Anthrop., vol. 16, p. 397. 

1960. The affinities of the new Olduvai australopitheciue. Nature, vol. 186, 

p. 456. 

1961. The australopithecines and their bearing on the origin of man and 

of stone tool-making. South African Journ. Sci., vol. 57, p. 3. 

1962. The origin and adaptive radiation of the australopithecines. In Evolu- 

tion and Homiuisation, ed. G. Kurth, Gustav Fischer Verlag, p. 120. 
Robinson, J. T., and Mason, R. 

1957. Occurrence of stone artifacts with Australopithecus at Sterkfontein. 

Nature, vol. 180, p. 521. 



Evolution, Genetics, and Anthropology ' 



By A. E. MoURANT 

The Lister Institute 
London 



THE BEGINNINGS OF ANTHROPOLOGY 

The ability to distinguish members of other species from those of 
one's own is, throughout most of the animal kingdom, a vital necessity 
for purposes of reproduction. The power of distinguishing members 
of other races or communities within the species is much less wide- 
spread, and seems to be most fully developed, apart from man, in that 
other great social and warlike group, the Hymenoptera. Somewhat 
ironically, we find that among the bees the basis of distinction, and 
of violent adverse discrimination, is not an inherited or in any way 
permanent set of characteristics, but the ephemeral flower perfume 
shared at any one time by the occupants of a given hive. 

Among the primates we know little of any recognition or discrim- 
ination below the species level, but we can be certain that recognition 
of alien species as such has always existed, and that from the beginning 
human beings were aware of differences between themselves and the 
other primates. They did not, however, necessarily become aware 
immediately of the differences arising between human communities 
as one race diverged from another, for, as with most other animal 
species, spatial or ecological separation was undoubtedly necessary 
before physical differentiation could become established. Certainly, 
however, from the beginning of history as recorded in writing and 
pictures, we find descriptions and representations of those features, 
both of body and dress, which characterize different races and nations, 
at first usually in the form of records of conquered peoples, upon 
monuments of victory set up by their conquerors. 

For thousands of years, however, the criteria used for describing, 
and distinguishing between, human populations lacked precision, and 
little attempt was made to distinguish between inherited and acquired 



1 The Huxley Memorial Lecture, delivered In the rooms of the Royal Society, Burlington 
House, on Friday, November 24, 1961. Reprinted by permission from the Journal of the 
Royal Anthropological Institute of Great Britain and Ireland, vol. 91, pt. 2, July- 
December 1961. 

501 



502 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

characteristics. Only in the last two centuries do we find any attempt 
at precise descriptions of racial characteristics. The science of physi- 
cal anthropology can, it is true, in one sense, be traced back to the 
Kenaissance, for it has its roots in the precise anatomical representa- 
tions and descriptions of Vesalius. He, however, was not, as far as 
we know, interested in differentiating races, but was concerned, rather, 
in establishing those anatomical characteristics which all or nearly all 
human beings have in common. 

At about the time of the Renaissance, too, the period of the great 
explorations began, during which most of the surface of the earth 
became known to, and much of it was conquered by, the peoples of 
Europe. Thus Europeans, within a relatively short space of time, 
became aware of the existence of a much greater range of human types, 
and incidentally of human cultures, than had ever been known to them 
before. Indeed, in the previous thousand years almost their only new 
contacts had been with invading armies from Asia. 

An important stej;) in the direction of precise differentiation of 
human individuals and populations was taken by Camper (1782), 
when he introduced the measurement of the "facial angle." With 
Blumenbach (1795) we are suddenly in the presence of a fully scientific 
investigator who, if it were possible for him to be present, would 
surely feel at home in a modern gathering of physical anthropologists. 
He proposed a classification of mankind, regarded as a single biologi- 
cal species, into five principal varieties, Caucasian, Mongolian, Ethi- 
opian, American, and Malay, of which he gave qualitative but 
nevertheless precise anatomical specifications. He stressed, however, 
the variation which occurred within each variety. Cuvier (1854) 
reduced the varieties to the three, Caucasian, Mongolian, and Negro, 
which have since remained traditional. 

In 1842 came one of the most important advances in the methods 
of anthropology, the introduction by Retzius of the concept of the 
"cranial index," expressing the breadth of the skull as a percentage 
of its length. This technical device, important in itself, became a 
sort of nucleus around which crystallized most of the observations 
made in physical anthropology during the subsequent hundred years. 

EVOLUTION, NATURAL SELECTION, AND HEREDITY 

In the whole of biological science, however, the middle years of the 
19th century were a time not only of great advances in knowledge but 
of fundamental changes in views, affecting anthropology perhaps 
more than any other part of biology. Following the publication by 
Darwin in 1859 of The Origin of Species^ he, and Huxley who took 
the major part in disseminating the new theory, became the unques- 
tioned leaders of the biological world. Among their chief preoccupa- 



EVOLUTION, GENETICS, ANTHROPOLOGY — MOURANT 503 

tions were man's origin and his place in nature; in 1862 Huxley 
published Mail's Place in Nature and in 1871 Darwin's Descent of 
Man appeared. 

These two men, friends and close colleagues though they were, dif- 
fered considerably in outlook, and this is instanced in particular by 
their views upon the nature of inheritable variations in living beings 
in general. These views had a particular bearing upon the nature 
of interspecific differences and upon the question, perpetually stressed 
by Huxley, of whether natural selection alone, acting upon a single 
species, could bring about a separation into two mutually infertile 
species. 

Both men were almost certainly completely unaware of the con- 
temporary work of Mendel who showed that, in the cases which he 
investigated, inheritable differences were finite and discontinuous. 
Darwin, though of course aware of isolated examples of discontinuous 
variation, appears, to the end of his life, to have regarded selection as 
operating essentially upon a continuous series of quantitative 
variations. 

Huxley seems to have been much more actively interested than 
Darwin in the question of how hereditary variation took place, and 
more fully conscious of tJie existing lack of knowledge of these 
mechanisms, and of the need for further research. In 1861, four years 
before the publication of Mendel's classical work, he wrote to Sir 
Joseph Hooker asking "Why does not somebody go to work experi- 
mentally, and get at the law of variation for some one species of 
plant?" — a task upon which Mendel was probably even then at work. 
It would be possible to point to a number of statements by Huxley 
which show an intuitive anticipation of modern genetical theory, of 
which two may be quoted : 

the important fact . . . that the tendency to vary, in a given organism, may have 
nothing to do with the external conditions to which the individual organism is 
exposed, but may depend wholly upon internal conditions. (Huxley, 1869.) 
Hence it is conceivable, and indeed probable, that every part of the adult con- 
tains molecules, derived both from the male and from the female parent. . . . 
The primitive male and female molecules may . . . mould the assimilated nu- 
triment, each according to its own type, into innumerable new molecules. (Hux- 
ley, 1878.) 

It would, however, be wrong to assume that Huxley anticipated in 
any complete sense the modern genetical view that the heritable basis 
of all variation is discontinuous. Certainly in the science of physical 
anthropology, which Huxley did so much to foster, and which was 
growing so rapidly at this time, the stress was on the precise measure- 
ment of parameters regarded as forming continuous series. 

In the hundred years which followed Ketzius's introduction of 
the cranial index, the subject matter of physical anthropology con- 

625325—62 34 



504 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

sisted almost exclusively of measurements of the various parts of 
the body, and observations, with more or less precise measurements, 
of the color of certain tissues. The total amount of information 
amassed was prodigious. With the shift of stress from individual 
to population, and the development of appropriate statistical methods 
by Pearson, Fisher, and others, the material served to yield a fairly 
complete classification of mankind, and to throw much light on 
prehistory. 

Throughout the period which we are considering the underlying 
object of investigators, even if it was not always expressed, was un- 
doubtedly to define separately, and to measure, those features of the 
bodily constitution which were inherited, as distinct from those ac- 
quired during the life of the individual. But in the absence of any 
adequate theory of the inheritance of these features the channels of 
information tended in the course of time to become clogged by a vast 
mass of rather indigestible data. 

GENETICS AND NATURAL SELECTION 

In 1900 two discoveries were announced which were to have a very 
great influence on anthropology. One of these, and by far the more 
important, was the rediscovery, independently by De Vries, by Cor- 
rens, and by Tschermak, of those principles of genetics which had 
already been described by Mendel in 1865 and which had been not 
simply forgotten, but completely disregarded by the main body of 
biologists. The other discovery, at first sight completely unrelated, 
was that by Landsteiner of the human blood groups. 

The essence of the Mendelian revolution was the discovery that 
the inherited characters, which taken together constitute the differ- 
ences between individuals, are indeed separated from one another 
by finite differences. In sexually reproducing species, any given 
character results from the action of a pair of genes, one inherited 
from the father and one from the mother or, perhaps more com- 
monly, of several such pairs. When the individual reproduces, a 
replica of one of each pair of genes is present in each of the reproduc- 
tive cells and is passed on to each of the offspring. The further 
discoveries that the genes are located on microscopically visible struc- 
tures known as chromosomes, and that the latter consist chemically 
of chains built up from desoxyribonucleic acid molecules, need not 
concern us at present. 

It was not at first obvious that the new genetical theories were 
relevant to the evolutionary process, to the theory of natural selection, 
or to anthropology. The characters which were studied in the early 
days of genetical science appeared to many biologists to be somewhat 
superficial, and little connected with the great differences which 
interested taxonomists. In man the few known genetically segregating 



EVOLUTION, GENETICS, ANTHROPOLOGY — MOURANT 505 

characters were either relatively insignificant, or pathological. It is 
therefore not surprising that the statistical approach of the bio- 
metricians seemed to mark a much more promising line of advance, 
both in explainmg evolution as a whole and in classifying and explain- 
ing the differences between human individuals and populations. 

To three genetical statisticians, Fisher and Haldane in Britain, and 
Sewall Wright in America, is due the credit for the next major develop- 
ment in biological thought, the explanation of natural selection in 
terms of genetics. The most complete treatment of the subject is found 
in Fisher's The Genetical Theory of Natural Selection (1930) which 
is one of the most important works on biology to appear since The 
Origin of S'pecies. Following the work done by Huxley in establish- 
ing the validity of the theory of natural selection, Fisher took the 
next logically essential step and showed, in terms of the by then 
well-established mechanisms of heredity, how selection had operated. 
In genetical language, Darwin and Huxley studied phenotypes; 
Fisher, genes and genotypes. Fisher, indeed, showed that the "atomic" 
nature of heredity was implicit in the work of Darwin: granted that 
evolution by natural selection took place, he showed that it could 
happen in no other way. 

There could now be no doubt that the external and measurable body 
characters which provided the data of physical anthropology were 
genetically determined; Fisher and Gray (1937) in a concise paper 
brought together all that was known regarding the inheritance 
of stature in man and interpreted it in terms of genetical theory. The 
inheritance of these characters, however, did not prove readily 
amenable to genetical analysis, and has not even now proved to be so. 
Thus, while the object of physical anthropology was (and is) to isolate 
the inherited components in the measurements, and to use them for 
purposes of classification and the tracing of ancestral relationships, 
the observational methods perforce remained exclusively those of direct 
measurement, and the methods of statistical analysis to which the 
measurements were subjected took no cognizance of genetical theory. 

The field was now clear, however, for the exploitation, largely 
fostered by Fisher himself, of blood groups and other genetically rela- 
tively simple characters as genetical, and ultimately as anthropological, 
markers. 

Despite Huxley's efforts to give medical students a broad back- 
ground of biological knowledge, medical research at the time of his 
death remained divided into a number of very distinct compartments. 
The highly active field of bacteriology and the investigation of the 
response of animals and human beings to bacterial infection was 
scarcely seen to have any connection with the great advances in biology 
initiated by Darwin and Huxley. It was, however, in the course of 



506 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

work in this field that Landsteiner in 1900 discovered the human 
blood groups. 

BLOOD GROUPS AND ANTHROPOLOGY 

While investigating possible reactions between the red corpuscles 
of the blood, or red cells, of certain persons and the blood serum 
of others, Landsteiner showed that the red cells of any given person 
may carry either of two substances known as A and B, or they may 
carry neither of them. Subsequent work showed that the red cells of 
some persons carry both substances. These substances, because of 
the reactions described below, and of other properties subsequently 
elucidated, are classified biochemically as antigens. Their chemical 
constitution is now fairly fully known but they could then be charac- 
terized only by the use, as reagents, of certain hmnan sera containing 
proteins known as antibodies, specifically related to the A and B 
antigens and hence known as anti-A and anti-B. When a serum con- 
taining anti-A is added to red cells carrying the A antigen, the latter 
combines with the antibody and the red cells are thereby caused to 
agglutinate, or stick together in clumps. Similarly anti-B causes 
cells carrying the B antigen to agglutinate. 

From a time soon after their first discovery, the main practical im- 
portance of the investigation of the blood groups has always lain in 
ensuring the compatibility of blood transfusions, millions of which 
are now given annually throughout the world. This has perforce led 
to the blood groups being studied in great detail, and they have as a 
result been shown to possess an interest and importance far tran- 
scending their immediate practical application. 

It was clear from the beginning that the blood group of an indi- 
vidual was a more or less permanent attribute of his bodily constitu- 
tion; it must soon have become clear that it was something inborn 
and in some sense inherited. The first suggestion that the blood 
groups were determined by Mendelian genes seems to have been made 
in 1908 by Epstein and Ottenberg, and in 1910 Von Dmigern and 
Hirszfeld clearly showed that the possession of the A or B antigen 
was a well-defined genetical character, though the precise mode of 
inheritance was only determined by Bernstein in 1924, Meanwhile, in 
1919, Professor and Mrs. Hirszfeld, who had been pioneers in many 
other aspects of blood-group study, were the first to apply them to 
anthropology. At the end of the First World War they were working 
at Salonika, a great crossroads for the movement both of troops and 
of refugees, and they were able to test the blood of large numbers of 
persons from many lands and most of the continents. They were 
thus able to show that, while most populations possessed all the four 
blood groups, the proj)ortions in which they occurred differed widely 
from one population to another. 



EVOLUTION, GENETICS, ANTHROPOLOGY — MOURANT 507 

This investigation was of importance not simply as marking the 
discovery of one particular anthropological character, but as being 
the first application to anthropology of a totally new method, the study 
of gene distributions : since there was no necessary distinction between 
the individuals of one population and of another, the populations 
themselves became the units of study, and statistical methods, which 
could still perhaps be regarded as an extra embellishment in classical 
anthropometric work, became an essential feature of the new type 
of investigation. 

The blood groups have certain other advantages as anthropological 
characters. They are fixed for life, at the moment of conception, by 
the genetical constitution of the individual. Also, unlike such features 
as the size of various parts of the body, they are unaffected by the 
subsequent history of the individual (apart from very rare cases, 
amounting to no more than a few per million of the population, who 
change their apparent blood group as a result of severe malignant 
disease). Moreover, while the visible characteristics of the body, and 
especially the color of the skin, have become associated in some 
quarters with racial prejudice, and allegations of inferiority and 
superiority, the blood groups have hitherto gathered no such unsci- 
entific accretions. 

The medical importance of the blood groups, and the intrinsic inter- 
est of a new method of studying human populations, rapidly led to 
the publication of large bodies of blood-group frequency data, and in 
1939 Boyd, who had himself performed large numbers of tests, was 
able to extract from the literature, and to compile and publish in the 
form of tables, the results of testing about one million individuals. 

Until the year 1927 only the blood groups O, A, B, and AB were 
known. To these we shall now refer as belonging to the ABO system. 
In that year Landsteiner and Levine announced the discovery of three 
new blood groups, M, N, and P. The methods which they used, and 
which are used for the determination of all the blood groups, are 
technically similar, though the reagents are different, but when their 
mode of inheritance is examined the blood groups are found to fall 
into a number of genetical systems, those already named forming the 
ABO, MN, and P systems, the second of which has since been expanded 
to form the MNSs system. While the groups of the different systems 
may resemble one another biochemically, those of one system are as 
distinct and separate from those of another in their inheritance as are, 
for instance, hair color and head shape. In a given population there 
may indeed be a preponderance of people with some particular com- 
bination of hair color and head shape (each admittedly more complex 
genetically than the blood groups) but when we study the mode of 
inheritance within the population, we find that these two types of 



508 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

character are independently inherited. Similarly a particular combi- 
nation of blood groups of different systems may be common, but again 
a study of their inheritance will show that those of each system are 
independently inherited. It ought, however, perhaps to be said that 
the phenomenon of linkage, which occurs when the genes for two sets 
of characters are at different places on the same chromosome, may 
affect the independence of the characters when studied in individual 
families, but, unless the linkage is extremely close, it will not affect 
their independence as anthropological markers. 

In 1940 the very important Rh or Rhesus blood-group system was 
added to the three already known, and in the succeeding years a 
further seven have been discovered which are of anthropological in- 
terest, in addition to a number of rare blood groups which have each 
been found only in a very few individuals or families throughout the 
world. 

OTHER HUMAN GENETICAL CHARACTERS 

Until about 1950, the genetical characters known in man nearly 
all fell into two classes, the rare congenital diseases, of little anthropo- 
logical interest, and the blood groups. Already a few other genetically 
determined biochemical characters had been discovered, such as the 
ability to secrete blood-group substances in the saliva, or to perceive 
a bitter taste in the simple organic compound, phenylthiocarbamide. 
Since then, however, the number of known biochemical characters 
under genetical control has multiplied greatly and many of the sys- 
tems involved have proved to be of considerable anthropological 
interest. 

Without doubt the most remarkable and instructive example is that 
of the hemoglobins. Since their population genetics are simpler and 
more fully worked out than those of the blood groups, we shall consider 
them somewhat fully, as a possible guide to the situations which may 
be expected to arise in the study of the much more complex blood 
groups, and of the other more recently discovered biochemical factors. 

By the year 1949 it had long been known that certain Negroes have 
red blood cells which, when examined on a microscope slide under 
a cover-slip, do not remain round but become crescentic or sickle 
shaped. It had also been established for many years that some of 
these persons suffer from a severe and intractable hemolytic or blood- 
destructive anemia, and that the condition tends to be familial. In 
that year Pauling, Itano, Singer, and Wells showed that the cells which 
tend to form sickle shapes, or sickle-cells, carry an abnormal type 
of hemoglobin molecule, with a higher positive electrical charge than 
normal adult hemoglobin, and with a lower solubility in body fluids 
in the unoxygenated state. In the healthy persons with sickle-cells 
this type is present together with normal hemoglobin while in the 



EVOLUTION, GENETICS, ANTHROPOLOGY — MOURANT 509 

anemic ones it occurs by itself. It gradually became clear that, apart 
from cases where other abnormal genes complicate the picture, the 
anemic persons with sickle-cells are homozygous for a gene determin- 
ing the synthesis of the abnormal sickle-cell hemoglobin, that is to 
say, they have received such a gene from both parents, while the 
healthy sicklers, who have a mixture of abnormal and normal hemo- 
globin, are heterozygous for the same gene, having received an ab- 
normal gene from one parent and a normal one from the other. Since 
under African conditions virtually all homozygous sicklers die without 
producing offspring, the frequency of their abnormal gene might be 
expected to diminish appreciably with every generation. Nevertheless 
there are numerous tribes in Africa with total frequencies of sicklers, 
mainly heterozygous, as high as 40 percent. It was a simple matter 
of genetical calculation to show that, in these tribes, about 4 percent 
of the babies conceived, and indeed of those born alive, since the 
condition is not lethal in utero, must be homozygous sicklers, almost 
inevitably destined to an early death. The question therefore arose 
as to how such high frequencies of sicklers could exist, and presumably 
persist from generation to generation. 

One suggested explanation was that mutation, or spontaneous 
change from the normal gene responsible for producing normal hemo- 
globin to the abnormal one causing the production of the sickle-cell 
variety, was taking place with sufficient frequency to balance the loss 
of abnormal genes through deaths from anemia. This, however, 
implied a frequency of change thousands of times higher than for 
almost any other known case of mutation, and so seemed most un- 
likely to be the true explanation. The only alternative appeared to 
be that the abnormal heterozygote, under African conditions, enjoyed 
a selective advantage, not only over the abnormal homozygote, but 
also over the normal homozygote. This is a situation well known to 
geneticists, and is called balanced polymorphism, in which the supply 
of both genes is replenished from the pool represented by the favored 
heterozygote, so that the balance between them tends to remain stable 
from one generation to another. Several workers suggested that the 
advantage enjoyed by the heterozygotes might be that they were more 
resistant than normal persons to malaria ; that this was so was first 
clearly demonstrated by Allison (1954) who also showed that the 
variety of malaria involved was the malignant tertian type. The 
relative resistance of heterozygotes to malaria was confirmed by Eaper 
(1956) who worked out more fully how this resistance operated. The 
complete solution of this primarily medical problem took many years 
to reach, and was achieved only because the clinical investigators had 
the close collaboration of biochemists, geneticists, and anthropologists. 
Such a situation is at the moment unique but it may become not in- 



510 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

frequent as the conquest of the environmental diseases brings into 
prominence, and exposes to investigation, the hard and therapeutically 
intractable residue of the congenital abnormalities. 

It should be mentioned that, largely as a result of the attention 
paid to tlie sickling problem, several dozen other abnormal hemo- 
globins are now known, a number of which are sufficiently common 
in particular regions of the world to serve as valuable anthropological 
markers. Their frequencies are probably also maintained in a state 
of balanced polymorphism, but the mechanisms have not been worked 
out. The chemical constitution of normal adult hemoglobin has 
now been worked out almost completely, and that of many of the 
abnormal varieties nearly or quite as fully. The chemical abnormali- 
ties consist in the substitution of one amino-acid residue for another 
in the molecule of this protein. The molecule is composed of two parts 
(or rather, two pairs of identical parts), and substitution in each part 
is controlled by a separate set of allelomorphic (or alternative) genes. 

HEMOGLOBINS AND NATURAL SELECTION 

In the relationship between normal and sickle-cell hemoglobins we 
have the clearest example yet worked out of natural selection acting 
upon the human species, but the fact that we are within reach of 
being able to measure directly the effects of the selective process 
implies that the frequencies of the genes concerned are labile, and 
they can scarcely be used as long-term anthropological markers. 
While, however, high frequencies of the abnormal or sickle-cell hemo- 
globin gene are liable to rapid change from generation to generation, 
low frequencies may persist for a very long time, as indicators that a 
modern population is descended, at least in part, from an ancestral 
one which possessed it and which was probably exposed to endemic 
infection with malignant tertian malaria. In most cases this cer- 
tainly means African ancestry, but the distribution of the sickling 
condition in southern Asia and Europe as well as in Africa has led 
Lehmann to suggest that its original center of dispersion lay in 
southwest Asia. An alternative possibility is that mutation from 
the normal to the sickle-cell hemoglobin gene has taken place inde- 
pendently in a number of places, the new gene persisting and spread- 
ing wherever malignant tertian malaria has been endemic. 

We are bound to assume the existence of selective forces favoring 
the spread of other hemoglobins, especially hemoglobin C in West 
Africa, and hemoglobin E in southeast Asia ; we do not know whether 
these forces have operated as rapidly as that involving sickle-cell 
hemoglobin, but the indications are that the gene for hemoglobin 
E, at any rate, is a fairly stable part of the genetical picture of 
southeast Asia. The gene or genes for thalassaemia are found in 
the Mediterranean area as well as parts of Africa and Asia, and 



EVOLUTION, GENETICS, ANTHROPOLOGY — ^MOURANT 511 

among New World populations of Mediterranean and African an- 
cestry. It is not known whether they belong to either of the genetical 
systems mentioned above, which determine tlie production of par- 
ticular abnormal types of hemoglobin, but they cause a disturbance of 
normal hemoglobin production broadly similar to that produced by 
the sickle-cell hemoglobin gene, the heterozygotes being clinically 
almost normal and the homozygotes suffering from a severe hemolytic 
anemia. Here again it is thought that the heterozygotes have an 
advantage over normal persons in being more resistant to malaria, but 
the process is less fully understood than in the case of the sickle-cell 
condition. Anthropologically, thalassaemia is of similar value in 
classifying populations to the more specific hemoglobin abnormalities. 

GENETICAL CHARACTERS IN ANTHROPOLOGY 

Bearing in mind the relatively simple model provided by the hemo- 
globins we are now in a position to consider more fully and critically 
the contribution to anthropology which has been made, and that which 
can in the future be made, by the study of the blood groups and 
other genetically simple biochemical characters. 

All the 11 major blood-group systems have contributed to anthro- 
pological knowledge, but three of them, the original ABO system of 
Landsteiner and the JMNSs and Kh systems, have made by far the 
greatest contributions. Because of their earlier discovery, their medi- 
cal importance, and the ready availability of the testing reagents, far 
more information is available about the distribution of the ABO 
groups (Mourant et al., 1958) than of the others (Mourant, 1954). 
On the basis of blood-group frequencies as a whole the world can be 
divided into about six major regions differing markedly in frequencies 
for nearly all systems. Within each region the frequencies of the 
MNSs and Eh groups show highly characteristic patterns with rela- 
tively little fluctuation, whereas those of the ABO groups vary con- 
siderably even within comparatively small areas such as Great Britain. 
The ABO groups appear to have been subject to more intense and 
rapid differential processes of natural selection than those of the 
other systems. The comparative constancy of the frequencies of the 
MNSs and Rh gi'oups may be due to the relative absence of selection, 
or to balance of selective effects, but the existence of an absolutely 
higher selection pressure on the ABO groups is in agreement with 
what we know more directly about the relationship of blood groups to 
diseases. 

The best known example of association between blood groups and 
disease is that shown by hemolytic disease of the newborn, which is 
the result of blood-group incompatibility between mother and foetus, 
most frequently with respect to the Rh system (Levine, Katzin, and 



512 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

Biirnliam, 1941). Other systems, including the ABO system, are 
sometimes involved. The problem of natural selection due to this 
disease is interesting and important but a full discussion of it would 
lead us too far from our main topic. It has however been shown 
mathematically (Li, 1953) that it should not lead to the establishment 
of a balanced polymorphism such as we discussed in the case of the 
hemoglobins. Apart from hemolytic disease of the newborn, some 
half-dozen diseases have been shown to have an association with par- 
ticular blood groups, groups in all cases belonging to the ABO sys- 
tem; the most marked example is the association between duodenal 
ulcer and group O. There is, however, no evidence that, in the case of 
any of the diseases studied, blood-group heterozygotes are relatively 
favored as are the hemoglobin heterozygotes by malaria. Moreover, 
none of the diseases proved to have a connection with blood groups 
has an incidence sufficiently early in life to affect appreciably the 
blood-group composition of the next generation. On the anthropologi- 
cal side too, it is (fortunately for practical applications) true to say 
that resemblances between populations known to be related but long 
separated suggest that ABO frequencies are relatively stable for 
periods of the order of 2,000 years. 

It would be unsafe, however, to accept the ABO blood groups, even 
for periods of under 2,000 years, as completely stable population 
markers. One possible cause of sudden large frequency changes is 
epidemic disease. If the blood groups show a differential survival 
among sufferers from any of the diseases responsible for major epi- 
demics, frequencies may perhaps remain stable for periods of centuries 
and then suffer sudden very large changes as a result of an outbreak 
of one of these diseases, or of a series of outbreaks. That this is a 
possibility is suggested by the recent work of Vogel, Pettenkofer, and 
Helmbold (1960), who have examined the micro-organisms respon- 
sible for plague and smallpox for the presence of antigens resembling 
the blood-group substances. They find an antigen like that of blood- 
group A in the smallpox virus, and in the plague bacillus an antigen 
resembling the blood-group substance H which is most abundant in 
group O cells. Basing their argument upon the hypothesis that an 
individual will have difficulty in elaborating a protective antibody to 
an organism antigenically resembling any of his own blood-group 
substances, they suggest that group-A persons are particularly sus- 
ceptible to smallpox and group-0 persons to plague. They compare 
the world distribution of the ABO blood groups and of smallpox and 
plague epidemics: these correspond sufficiently well to suggest the 
desirability of further investigation of the hypothesis that such epi- 
demics have played a major part in determining blood-group 
distribution. 



EVOLUTION, GENETICS, ANTHROPOLOGY — MOURANT 513 

While, however, natural selection has almost certainly been the pre- 
ponderant influence in determining blood-group frequencies in differ- 
ent populations, accidental fluctuations have undoubtedly affected the 
frequencies found in small isolated communities, and in some cases 
such accidentally determined frequencies may have become stabilized 
when, in an improved but still isolated enviroimient, the numbers of 
a population have undergone a large increase. The extent to which 
such a process may have affected the blood-group frequencies now 
found in large population gi'oups is difficult to estimate. For light 
upon this problem we must look on the one hand to experimental 
studies of animal population genetics, and on the other to such work 
as that initiated by Vogel, Pettenkofer, and Helmbold, and to the ex- 
amination of many more small and intermediate human population 
groups. 

It is tempting to regard the various genetical systems which have 
been discussed as providing us with a series of probes reaching vary- 
ing distances into the past, the hemoglobins some hundreds of years, 
the ABO blood groups one or two thousand years, the Eh and MNSs 
blood groups and perhaps most of the others several thousand years. 
If this situation represents the truth, then we are even better provided 
with information than if all genetical frequencies were highly stable, 
for then we should have no genetical clues to events taking place 
within any of the major population groups since conditions became 
stable. 

Empiricall}^, by calling written history to witness, we can show 
that the temporal hierarchy of genetical systems just suggested does 
at least in part account for the present genetical constitution of popu- 
lations. However, until far more is known than at present of the 
conditions determining the frequencies of the genes we are studying, 
we must be content to feel our way gradually from one established 
fact to the next. For instance, though blood-group frequencies, in- 
cluding ABO frequencies, are similar in populations known to be 
closely related, this may be the result not, as we have tended to sup- 
pose, of the absence of selective influences since separation, but of the 
presence of a number of strong selective forces causing gene fre- 
quencies to remain balanced at particular levels, levels determined by 
some condition, whether wholly external like climate, or cultural like 
food preferences, which the two populations, though separated, have 
continued to share. Alternatively, even in the absence of any con- 
tinuing similarities in the external conditions responsible for natural 
selection, the frequencies of a particular set of allelomorphic genes 
may have been maintained at or near particular levels by the sta- 
bilizing influence of the gene pool as a whole controlling the operation 
of natural selection. 



514 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

In the last 10 years many more biochemical systems under simple 
genetical control have been found in man. Most conveniently for 
practical purposes, the majority of them are expressed in some way in 
the blood, and so they can be investigated by using portions of speci- 
mens obtained for blood grouping. The number of known systems of 
this kind is rapidly increasing. Those who discover them are usually 
aware immediately of their possible anthropological significance and 
soon carry out surveys of a number of different populations, between 
which, as a rule, significant differences in gene frequency are found. 
Many of the substances involved have known physiological functions : 
among these are the haptoglobins and the transferrins, classes of 
plasma proteins involved in different stages of iron metabolism. 
Genetically determined variations in the control mechanisms of such 
important vital processes are likely to be subject to intense natural 
selection, and hence perhaps to be relatively short-term population 
markers, but the details of the mechanisms of selection are in most 
cases not yet known. 

One system where something is known of the selective mechanism 
is that involving a genetically determined deficiency of the enzyme 
glucose-6-phosphat6 dehydrogenase (sometimes called G6PD). The 
normal biochemistry of this enzyme has long since been well estab- 
lished, and empirically, though the chain of biochemical events is not 
entirely clear, a deficiency of it is found to cause a liability to hemolytic 
or blood-destructive anemia following the consumption of certain 
drugs or of the common broad bean, Vicia faha, leading in the latter 
case to f avism, a condition long familiar in Mediterranean populations. 
The gene involved is unique, or nearly so, among those known to give 
rise to human polymorphisms, in being sex-linked, or carried on the 
female-determining X chromosome. Thus the male, with only one X 
chromosome, either has the condition fully developed or not at all. 
Unlike some other sex-linked genes, such as those for hemophilia and 
color blindness, this one is readily recognizable in female heterozygotes, 
but there is a quantitative overlap with homozygotes. Thus surveys 
of gene frequency can be reliably carried out only on males. Rather 
surprisingly, population studies leave little doubt that this apparently 
harmful gene is, like those for sickle-cell hemoglobin and for thalas- 
saemia, in some way protective against malaria. It may be that the 
protected persons are the female heterozygotes. 

This large and growing class of known genetical systems with a 
biochemical expression will thus almost certainly prove to include some 
with gene frequencies fluctuating readily in response to changes in 
external conditions, but it may be expected, like the blood-group 
class, also to include others with gene frequencies stable over very long 
periods. 



EVOLUTION, GENETICS, ANTHROPOLOGY — MOURANT 515 

GENETICS, ANTHROPOMETRY, AND THE FUTURE OF PHYSICAL 
ANTHROPOLOGY 

It may be that few new blood-group systems remain to be discovered, 
but biocliemical systems are likely to multiply considerably in number 
in the near future. As all the methods of testing involved become 
fully applied to anthropological material, then, even if classical 
anthropometric methods are also fully applied, the amount of infor- 
mation available about the inherited features of any population will 
become preponderantly serological and biochemical, and remain only 
in relatively small degree morphological. 

Tliis does not mean, however, that it will then be permissible to 
neglect morphological observation, or to disregard the results of 
past morphological measurements. There are many weighty reasons 
for this. For one thing, apart from the results of ABO blood-group 
tests on a small number of bodies and skeletons, the only means of com- 
paring living populations with those of the past is by means of skeletal 
measurements. A further reason is that the vast bulk of our existing 
information about living or recently living populations consists of 
body measurements. We must continue to make it possible to compare 
the peoples of the present day, and indeed of the future, with archeo- 
logical material, and with living populations examined during the 
past century, but possibly now inextricably intermarried with others. 
Quite apart from these considerations, it would clearly be wrong for 
anthropologists to neglect just those characteristics of individuals and 
populations by which they are identified in everyday life. 

But an understanding of the physical nature of man, and his rela- 
tion to the rest of nature, demands more than a comparison of individ- 
uals or populations with one another as they exist at the time when 
the observations are made. Man has been evolving, however slowly, 
during recent millemiia, and he will continue to evolve in the future. 
The study of the processes of natural selection and evolution is, there- 
fore, an essential part of the investigation, not only of ancient skeletal 
material, but of living human populations. 

Already, as we have seen, some of the serological and biochemical 
characters are being studied with regard to the liability of their pos- 
sessors to suffer from certain diseases. The results of such studies 
must ultimately be interpretable, at least in part, in terms of natural 
selection related to features of the environment. Similarly the ex- 
ternal characters of the body must have evolved and must, indeed, still 
be evolving, in response to the nature of the environment. This proc- 
ess of evolution may be slow, and the genetics involved almost inex- 
tricably complex, but the major morphological features of the body, 
being the ultimate results of the selective process, may be expected 
to show, and have indeed in many cases been found to show, a close 
relationship to certain features of the environment. 



516 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

In the almost complete absence of analytical methods related, in the 
Mendelian sense, to the genetical content of the data, much effort has 
been devoted, with great effect, toward increasing the efficiency of 
more empirical methods of statistical analysis, that is to say, analysis 
in terms of phenotypes. The whole accepted edifice of physical classi- 
fication of human populations depends, in fact, upon the results of 
such analysis. 

The genetical analysis of the blood groups and biochemical charac- 
ters has enabled populations to be compared much more effectively than 
could have been done on the basis of the observed characters (or pheno- 
types) alone. A knowledge of the genetics involved has also, in some 
cases, made possible a fairly full analysis of the mechanism by which 
these characters, through natural selection, become adapted to the 
environment. A full analysis of the modes of inheritance of the 
external body characters might be expected to have similar conse- 
quences for these characters. However, it is now clear that continu- 
ously varying characters such as skin color and stature are each mider 
the control of a large number of genes, known as polygenes. Gener- 
alized methods of analysis of observations on such characters have 
been devised by Darlington and Mather (1949), but a full analysis in 
terms of individual genes is not at present in sight. 

In view of the greatly increased discriminatory power which 
genetically based methods would almost certainly confer, much further 
effort is needed, but few geneticists appear to be aware of the need, 
and very few indeed have contributed at all substantially to the 
subject. In the case of stature, Fisher and Gray, as we have seen, 
many years ago extracted virtually all possible genetical information 
from the data then available; since then Tanner and Healy (Tanner, 
1954; Tanner and Healy, 1956) have extended such analysis to some 
more recent data, but no other work of importance has been done. In 
the case of skin color, however, a considerable amouiit of work has 
been done recently, especially by G. A. Harrison (Harrison, 1957; 
Harrison and Owen, 1956-57) with promising results. 

I believe that a more fundamental genetical analysis of mammalian 
and human morphological characters is possible than has so far been 
achieved, and I would commend this difficult problem to any younger 
geneticists who may hear or read this lecture. Such an analysis would, 
I hope, lead in time to much more efficient methods of dealing with the 
raw data of morphological anthropology. Hitherto the data them- 
selves have proved intractable genetically : not only this, but also their 
sheer volume, even that of the reliable and well-standardized data 
alone, has discouraged any attempt at a systematic comprehensive 
analysis. If only methods for their analysis could be devised which 
were genetically sound, statistically efficient, and practically con- 
venient, then the modern availability of electronic calculators, capable 



EVOLUTION, GENETICS, ANTHROPOLOGY — MOURANT 517 

of dealing both with the complexity of the genetical situation and with 
the vast extent of the data, would, I predict, release from the treasure 
houses of the past an abounding harvest of priceless information. 

Such developments are, however, not to be expected immediately, 
and we must now consider further the relation between the two main 
methods of human classification available at the present time. When 
blood-group observations began to be applied to anthropology there 
was a tendency on both sides to place emphasis on the discrepancies 
between the results of the new methods and those of classical anthro- 
pometry, and to claim that one method or the other was the more 
reliable. It is indeed not surprising that a classification based on a 
single genetical system, that of the ABO blood groups, failed to agree 
at all fully with one based on morphological characters representing 
the integrated effects of scores, if not hundreds, of sets of allelomor- 
phic genes. Few physical anthropologists would now deny the 
classificatory value of the blood groups and biochemical characters, 
and most serologists and geneticists who apply their results to anthro- 
pology appreciate the importance of the morphological characters, 
despite the lack of any means of analyzing them genetically. The time 
is past, however, if it ever existed, for the two classes of information 
to be contrasted to the detriment of either. Morphological observa- 
tions have now as great a value as they ever possessed, but they can be 
supplemented by information derived from a rapidly growing range 
of serological and biochemical investigations. Those who have at- 
tempted fully to use both methods, such as Beckman (1959) in Sweden, 
have found not only that there is a high degree of agreement between 
the classifications of populations based on the two methods, but that 
the most complete picture of hereditary connections between popula- 
tions can be obtained only by combining all the available information 
of both kinds. 

To Huxley more perhaps than to any other man we owe the existence, 
at the present time, of a fully scientific discipline of biology as a 
whole. To the scientific status of anthropology too, in particular, he 
made a very great contribution, but he did not live to see it achieve 
the objectiveness of, for instance, the remainder of zoology. Even 
at the present time anthropology still suffers both from a pseudo- 
scientific racialism which lingers in a few quarters, and from a failure 
to use to the full all the methods of investigation which are now 
available. Only by calling upon the full resources of paleontology, 
anatomy, physiology, biochemistiy, genetics, ecology, and psychology, 
that is to say, on the whole available power of biological analysis, 
will irrational prejudices be overthrown and a science of physical 
anthropology arise which is both fully objective, and adequate in its 
compass and its achievement to the great subject of its investigations. 



518 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

ACKNOWLEDGMENTS 

I should like to thank Miss D. T. Cox and Drs. K. L. G. Goldsmith, 
G. A. Harrison, Dorothy Parkin, and P. M. Sheppard for their kind- 
ness in reading and criticizing drafts of this lecture; also Mrs. K. 
Domaniewska-Sobczak for assistance with the bibliography. I am 
indebted to Dr. Cyril Bibby for tracing and transcribing passages on 
heredity from little-known works of Huxley. I have since consulted 
those which were reprinted in the Collected Essays. 

REFERENCES 
Allison, A. C. 

1954. Protection offered by sickle-cell trait against subtertian malarial 
infection. British Med. Journ., vol. 1, pp. 290-294. 
Beckman, L. 

1959. A contribution to the physical anthropology and population genetics 
of Sweden. Doctorate thesis, Lund. Hereditas, vol. 45. 
Bernstein, F. 

1924. Ergebnisse einer biostatistischen zusammenfassenden Betrachtung 
iiber die erbliche Blutstrukturen des Menschen. Klin. Wochschr., 
vol. 3, pp. 1495-1497. 
Blttmenbach, J. F. 

1795. Generis humani varietate nativa, ed. tertia, Gottingen. (See The 
anthropological treatises of Johann Friedrich Blumenbach, trans, 
and ed. by Thomas Bendyshe. London, 1865.) 
Boyd, W. C. 

1939. Blood groups. Tabul. Biol., Hague, vol. 17, pp. 113-240. 
Camper, P. 

*1782. Natuurkundige Verhandelingen. Amsterdam. 
Correns, C. 

1900. G. Mendels Kegel iiber das Verhalten der Nachkommenschaft der 
Rassenbastarde. Ber. Deutsch. Bot. Ges., vol. 18, pp. 232-239. 
Ctjvier, G. 

1854. The animal kingdom. New ed. (trans.) by W. B. Carpenter and 
J. O. Westwood. London. 
Darlington, C. D., and Mather, K. 

1949. The elements of genetics. London. 
Darwin, C. R. 

1859. On the origin of species by means of natural selection, or the pres- 
ervation of favoured races in the struggle for life. London. 
1871. The descent of man, and selection in relation to sex. 2 vols. London. 
Dungi:rn, E. von, and Hirszfeld, L. 

1910. Ueber Vererbung gruppenspezifischer Strukturen des Blutes. Zeit- 
schr. Immun. Forsch., vol. 6, pp. 284-292. 
Epstein, A. A., and Ottenberg, R. 

1908. Simple method of performing serura reactions. Proc. New York 
Path. Soc, vol. 8, pp. 117-123. 
Fisher, R. A. 

1930. The genetical theory of natural selection. Oxford. 



♦This is the earliest work of Camper available In London, but the concept of the "facial 
angle" may have been Introduced in one of his earlier works. 



EVOLUTION, GENETICS, ANTHROPOLOGY — MOURANT 519 

Fisher, R. A., and Gray, H. 

1937. Inheritance in man : Boas's data studied by the method of analysis 
of variance. Ann. Eugen., Loudon, vol. 8, pp. 74r-93. 
Harris, H. 

1959. Human biochemical genetics. Cambridge. 
Harrison, G. A. 

1957. The measurement and inheritance of skin colour in man. Eugen. 

Rev., vol. 49, pp. 73-76. 
Harrison, G. A., and Owen, J. J. T. 

1956-57. The application of spectrophotometry to the study of skin colour 
inheritance. Acta Genet., vol. 6, pp. 481-484. 
Hteszfeld, L., and Hirszfeld, Hanna. 

1919. Serological differences between the blood of different races. The 
result of researches on the Macedonian front Lancet, vol. 2, pp. 
675-679. 
Huxley, T. H. 

1862. Evidence as to man's place in nature. London. 

1869. The genealogy of animals. Rev. of Natiirliche Sch5pfungs Geschichte 

in The Academy, 1869. Reprinted in Collected Essays, vol. 2. 
1878. Evolution in biology. Encycl. Britannica, 9th ed., vol. 8. Reprinted 
in Collected Essays, vol. 2. 
Landsteiner, K. 

1900. Zur Konntnis der antifermentativen, lytischen und agglutinie- 
reuden Wirkungen des Blutserums und der Lymphe. Zentralbl. 
Bakt., vol. 27, pp. 357-302. 
Landsteiner, K., and Levine, P. 

1927a. A new agglutinable factor differentiating individual human bloods. 

Proc. Soc. Exp. Biol., New York, vol. 24, pp. 600-602. 
1927b. Further observations on individual differences of human blood. Proc. 
Soc. Exp. Biol., New York, vol. 24, pp. 941-942. 
Landsteiner K., and Wiener, A. S. 

1940. An agglutinable factor in human blood recognized by immune sera 

for rhesus blood. Proc. Soc. Exp. Biol., New York, vol. 43, p. 223. 
Levine, P. : Katzin, E. M. ; and Burnham, L. 

1941. Isoimmunization in pregnancy, its possible bearing on etiology of 

erythroblastosis fetalis. Journ. Amer. Med. Assoc, voL 116, pp. 
825-827. 
Li, C. C. 

1953. Is Rh facing a crossroad? A critique of the compensation effect. 

Amer. Nat., vol. 87, pp. 257-261. 
Mendel, G. 

1865. Versuche fiber Pflauzen-Hybriden. Verb. Naturf. Ver. Briinn, vol. 4, 
pp. 3-47. (Publ. 1866.) 

MotTRANT, A. E. 

1954. The distribution of the human blood groups. Oxford. 
MotTRANT, A. E. ; Kope6, Ada C, and Domaniewska-Sobczak, Kazimiera. 

1958. The ABO blood groups : Comprehensive tables and maps of world 

distribution. Oxford. 
Pauling, L. ; Itano, H. A. ; Singer, S. J. ; and Wells, I. C. 

1949. Sickle-cell anemia, a molecular disea.se. Science, vol. 110, pp. 543-548. 
Raper, a. B. 

1956. Sickling in relation to morbidity from malaria and other diseases. 
British Med. Journ., vol. 1, pp. 965-966. 
625.325—62 35 



520 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

Retzius, G. 

1842. tJber die Schadelformen der Nordbewohner. Stockholm. 
Tanner, J. M. 

1954. Lack of sex linkage and dominance in genes controlling human 
stature. Proe. 9th Int. Congr. Genet., pp. 933-934. 
Tannek, J. M., and Healy, M. J. R. 

1956. The genetics of human morphological characters. Adv. Sci., London, 
vol. 13, pp. 192-194. 

TSCHERMAK, E. 

1900. tJber ktinstliche Kreuzung bei Pisum sativum. Ber. Deutsch. Bot 
Ges., vol. 18, pp. 158-168. 
VoGEL, F. ; Pettenkofek, H. J. ; and Helmbold, W. 

1960. tJber die Populationsgenetik der ABO-Blutgruppen. Acta Genet. 
Statist. Med., vol. 10, pp. 267-294. 
Vries, H. De. 

1900. Sur la loi de disjonction des hybrides. C. R. Acad. Sci. Paris, vol. 
130, pp. 845-847. 



Reprints of the various articles in this Report may be obtained, as long as 
the supply lasts, on request addressed to the Editorial and Publications 
Division, Smithsonian Institution, Washington 25, D.C. 



The Skull of Shanidar IF 



By T. D. Stewart 

Head Curator of Anthropology 
Smithsonian Institution 



[With 9 plates] 

When I restored the first adult Neanderthal skull from Shanidar 
cave, northern Iraq, during the late months of 1957 (Stewart, 1958), 
another skull of an adult, designated as "Shanidar II" (Solecki, 1957, 
1960a and b), had already been worked on in the laboratory of the 
Iraq Museum, Baghdad. The attention it had received from the lab- 
oratory technicians had consisted of the careful removal of the earth 
(it had been brought to Baghdad in a block of earth) and of the 
consolidation of all surfaces and loose fragments by means of a plastic 
cement. This procedure served to reveal the skull in the picturesque 
condition in wdiich it was recovered ; that is, broken into many pieces, 
flattened from side to side, the lower jaw still in articulation but with 
the mouth somewhat agape, and the upper half of the spinal column 
adherent to, and curving around, the base from pterygoids to occiput. 

All this is show^n in the three photographs, plates 1, 2, and plate 3, 
figure 1, which were taken in 1957 by Antran Evan. Otherwise the 
only records made earlier on this specimen are some radiographs of the 
teeth taken in the Radiological Institute, Baghdad. These radio- 
graphs will be considered in due course. 

Although I left Baghdad early in 1958 with the impression that 
the skull of Shanidar II could not be restored, in the sense that the 
first skull had been, eventually I decided that any restorational effort 
must yield information of scientific value. Furthermore, I decided 
that the information thus obtained would be more useful than simply 
keeping the specimen in its original form for exhibition purposes. 
Thus, when Dr. Solecki made plans for the Fourth Shanidar Expedi- 
tion and applied to the National Science Foundation for a grant, 
further work on the second skull was included in the schedule, along 
with the recovery from the cave of the remaining postcranial bones 
of the skeleton. 



* Reprinted, with minor changes, by permission from Sumer, vol. 17, 1961. 

521 



522 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

I saw the skull for the second time in early June 1960, when the 
expedition arrived in Baghdad, and, with the gracious consent of the 
museum authorities, worked on it almost daily from then until the 
middle of July. The first step was to detach and reassemble the lower 
jaw. Next, the vertebrae were detached, separated, and individually 
reassembled.^ At this stage it became apparent that the posterior part 
of the left side of the skull was very little more than adherent left 
scapula (pi. 3, fig. 2).^ This, too, was detached, but left for later 
study. Nothing now remained except the skull proper and it was 
taken apart first in the right rear, then at the left top, and finally in 
the front midline. Only at this stage, when so many facial parts, in- 
cluding the upper front teeth, were seen to be missing, did I suspect 
that a collection of loose pieces was preserved separately in the 
museum. This turned out to be the case, and their inclusion in the 
study increased the information obtained. 

I was right in my original impression about the restorational pos- 
sibilities of the skull. Many parts were missing ; others were broken 
into such small pieces that they could not be reassembled, especially 
since usually the imier and outer tables had separated through the 
diploe. Most discouraging of all, however, was the tenacity of the 
plastic cement which locked together the whole broken mass, including 
remnants of earth and bone meal. By contrast, the loose fragments 
stored separately, being in their original state, required almost no 
cleaning and could be fitted together rapidly. At times I thought 
that areas of the skull had warped, but what seems like warping may 
be an irreducible cement-preserved set of the fragments. In trying to 
correct these malpositioned parts it was discouraging, after soaking off 
a piece of bone with acetone, to fiind it still encased in a sticky envelope 
of cement and then in the course of brushing off the remaining cement 
to have the bone crumble into little pieces. Under these circumstances 
it seemed better to leave undisturbed the areas where fragments fit 
reasonably well together. Also, of course, I had to assume when I 
could not prove otherwise that the pieces belonged where I found 
them. To some extent, therefore, I attribute my failure in satisfacto- 
rily restoring this specimen to the presence of the cement. This state- 
ment is not intended as criticism of the preparatorial work on this 
specimen. Probably any other method of handling would have 
yielded much less information. 

Before considering the findings, it may be helpful to explain the 
curious position of the skull in relation to the vertebrae and left 
scapula. I would judge that sometime after death the skull rolled or 

» A description of the cervical vertebrae appears in the volume honoring Adolph H. 
Schultz (Stewart, 1962). 

• This and Bubsequent photographs were made by Antran Evan In 1960, using a lens of 
shorter focal length. 



SKULL OF SHANIDAR II — STEWART 523 

was forced backward on the thorax and came to rest on its right side 
with the occiput between the spinous processes of the upper thoracic 
vertebrae and the inner side of the left scapula. In the course of this 
unnatural movement the atlas became detached from the foramen 
magnum and, still alined with the other vertebrae, came to rest against 
the pterygoids and between the ascending rami of the lower jaw. 
Since with the skull in this position the face was toward the excava- 
tion, it is understandable why the latter was the part first encountered 
and hence why it was damaged. 

I spent the last 2 weeks of July 1960 at the cave helping to recover 
the rest of the postcranial skeleton of Shanidar II. Unfortunately, 
only a few more vertebrae — three thoracic and four lumbar — parts of 
three ribs, and the left tibia and fibula were found. Obviously, there- 
fore, this was a partial or disturbed burial. 

As the pictures show, the right side of the skull and lower jaw is 
better preserved than the left side. The same is true of the skull and 
lower jaw of Shanidar I. For this reason most of the comparisons 
will be made from this point of view. 

LOWER JAW 

Plate 5 and plate 6, figure 1, and the corresponding interpretative 
drawings made on a stereograph (pi. 4 and pi. 6, fig. 2) show the form 
of the lower jaw as reconstructed. From these it is evident that no 
connection remained between the right and left halves in the symphys- 
eal region. In orienting the two halves, the amount of space needed 
for the missing central incisors was estimated and the preserved bot- 
tom midpoint of the symphysis was oriented in relation to the mid- 
point of the tooth row.* Also, there vras no clear connection between 
the left horizontal and ascending rami, and these parts had to be 
oriented visually. In trying to achieve a symmetrical-looking jaw, 
reasonable dimensions were sacrificed, with the result that probably 
the posterior part of the dental arch is too wide and the condyles too 
far apart, mainly because the sides of the jaw are a little too much 
i])clined outward at the top (or inclined inward at the bottom). It 
should be added that almost the whole inner left side and the fore- 
part of the inner right side were missing and had to be reconstructed 
with a filler compound (Savogran), either by reference to the intact 
side or by reference to the jaw of Shanidar I. No accuracy is claimed 
for the result. Note, too, that although both coronoid processes are 
intact, the tops and foreparts of both condyles have had to be recon- 
structed. The resulting shapes are only approximate. In spite of 
such deficiencies, I believe the lateral views of the jaw cannot be far 
wrong. 

* A fragment of the lower left central Incisor turned up In the loose fragments after the 
reconstruction of the lower jaw was finished and the illustrations completed. 



524 



ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 



In plate 4, figure 1, and plate 6, figure 2, outline drawings of the 
corresponding views of Shanidar I have been added for comparison. 
In both lateral and superior aspects, as these drawings show, the two 
jaws are remarkably similar, discounting the differences in tooth wear 
due to age differentials.^ Shanidar II has a sturdier right coronoid 
process, but then Shanidar I has an almost equally sturdy process on 
the left side. Shanidar II also has a somewhat more prominent 
gonial angle (with a little more lateral flare that does not show in the 
illustrations) and a shallower sigmoid notch. The difference in angu- 
lation of the condyles is especially noteworthy, as is the difference in 
thickness of the rami. Actually, Shanidar II is slightly larger and 
heavier throughout the rami. 

Plate 6, figure 2, should be compared with the similarly constructed 
figure 164 in McCown and Keith (1939), here reproduced as figure 1. 




Figure 1. — McCown and Keith's (1939) figure 164 showing the superior aspect of the 
lower jaws of Tabun I (A), Tabun II (B), Skhul V (C), and Krapina J after Kramberger 
(D). Y-Y, postmolar transverse axis; c, tip of coronoid process. (Reproduced by 
permission.) 

In the latter figure all the Mount Carmel specimens have their coro- 
noid processes touching the postmolar transverse axis, indicating a 
much more forward tilt to the processes in those specimens. Also, 
the anterior tooth-carrying portion is relatively longer than the 
posterior muscular portion in the Mount Carmel specimens, whereas 
the two portions are about equal in the Shanidar specimens. 

The following figures (in millimeters) give some idea of how the 
Shanidar jaws compare in size with each other and with other 

* Judging from tooth wear and arthritis, Shanidar II could not have been over 30 years 
of age ; Shanidar I was probably at least 40 years of age. Both are thought to be males. 



SKULL OF SHANIDAR II — STEWART 525 

Neanderthals as reported by McCown and Keith (1939, pp. 211, 
229-230) : 

Shanidar Tabun Skhtll La 

Chapelle 

I II II IV V VI 

Bicondylar width 144. (156. 0)(130. 0)(132. 0)(132. 0) 147.0 

M,-M2 width 70.2 (72.5) 66.2 

Minimum width of 

ascending ramus "40.0 44.0 40.0 (42.5) 36.2(42.0) 43.0 

Height of symphysis 37.0 37.0 (42.0) 42.5 36.5 36.0 

Height of ramus at M3-_ "34.0 "34.0 38.5 35.5 34.5 

" On left; 42.0 on right. 
► On right; 35.0 on left. 

Plate 7, figures 1 and 2, show the inner side of the lower jaws of 
Shanidar II and I, respectively. Obviously, the basic morphological 
pattern is the same for both specimens. All the elements that Keith 
stressed in connection with the Mount Carmel jaws (McCown and 
Keith, 1939, p, 226, fig. 161) are well developed here, and especially 
what he called the lingual supramarginal sulcus. In Shanidar I this 
sulcus is so deep that the external surface of the ascending ramus 
becomes convex. The contrary is the case in Shanidar II. 

Visible in these views also is the form of the mylohyoid canal. 
Although it is open in Shanidar I and is visible for a distance of 
23 mm. below the mandibular foramen, in Shanidar II it enters a 
5-mm.-long tunnel about 11 mm. below the foramen. ^Vliether in 
Shanidar II this canal was symmetrical on the two sides, as in 
Shanidar I, cannot, of course, be determined. The differing shapes 
of the lingula, the bone flange shielding the medial side of the mandi- 
bular foramen, is also apparent. 

Just as important as the differences between these lower jaws are 
the differences between their two sides; in other words, their 
asymmetries. Lacking numerous specimens from the same strati- 
graphic level for comparison, we gain some insight into individual 
variation from whatever asymmetries exist. From what remains of 
the jaw of Shanidar II, and this means mainly external surfaces, it 
seems clear that the ascending rami were fairly symmetrical, the main 
difference between the two sides being a greater external concavity 
on the right. The coronoid processes and sigmoid notches are very 
much alike in this specimen. By contrast, the jaw of Shanidar I is 
quite asymmetrical posteriorly. The supramarginal sulcus noted on 
the inner side of the right ramus as being extraordinarily deep is 
represented on the left side by one that is shallow. Correspondingly, 
whereas the external surface of the ascending ramus is convex on the 
right, it is concave on the left. Perhaps these morphological differ- 
ences explain the far greater development of marginal tubercles in this 



526 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

area on the right side, as compared with the left. The differences in 
the coronoid processes have already been mentioned. 

Several features cannot be compared in detail owing to the location 
of breakage in Shanidar II. For instance, almost complete loss of 
bone in the symphyseal area makes it impossible to determine whether 
the same cross-sectional shape existed as in Shanidar I (fig. 2). 




Figure 2. — Outline of sagittal section through mandibular symphysis of Shanidar I com- 
pared with the same section of three other specimens supplied by McCown and Keith 
(1939, figs. 143, 144, 148). 

However, the small piece of symphyseal base that is preserved shows 
sculpturing (digastric fossa) comparable to that of Shanidar I. Nor 
is it certain that lateral infracondylar tubercles existed in Shanidar 
II, although the conformation of the remaining part of the right 
condyle would suggest it. On the other hand, breakage has just spared 
most, if not all, of the mental foramina. It is positive, therefore, 
that whereas Shanidar I has a single large foramen on each side, 
Shanidar II, like many Neanderthalers, has multiple foramina: at 
least two on the right and three on the left. 

UPPER FACE 

Damage to the midline of the face at the time of discovery, as 
already explained, together with the crushing that took place in 
ancient times, greatly restricted the possibilities of reconstruction 
in this area. Nevertheless, very fortunately it has been possible 
to learn a great deal about the original form. In general, there can 
be little doubt that it was a Neanderthal face like that of Shanidar I, 
but with certain differences. From several unconnected pieces of 
the supraorbital ridges, these structures appear to be every bit as 
heavy as those of Shanidar I, and likely of much the same form. 



Smithsonian Report. 1961. — Stewart 



Plate 1 




Right side of skull of Shanidar II after initial cleaning in 1957. Note cervical and upper 
thoracic vertebrae extending along base and at occiput meeting left scapula protruding 
from left side. 



Smithsonian Report, 1961. — Stewart 



PLATE 2 




Right side of occiput of the Shanidar II skuil after initial cleaning in 1957. 



Smithsonian Report, 1961. — Stewart 



PLATE 3 




a, 
< 




c/2 •£ 






Smithsonian Report, 1961. — Stewart 



PLATE 4 



S HANIDA R 
I 




1. Stereographic drawings of the right side of the lower jaws of Shanidar I (simplified) and 
Shanidar II. In the case of Shanidar I the coronoid process is shown as restored origi- 
nally (immediately above dotted line) and as restored to match that of Shanidar II 
(fine stippling). Coarse stippling indicates missing bone. 




2. Stereographic drawing of the left side of the lower jaw of Shanidar II. 

indicates missing bone. 



Stippling 



Smithsonian Report, 1961. — Stewart 



Plate 5 




^ 



Smithsonian Report, I96I. — Stewart 



Plate 6 




1. Superior aspect of the restored lower jaw of Shanidar II. 




2. Stereographic drawings of the superior aspect of the lower jaws of Shanidar I (right 
half simplified) and Shanidar II, arranged according to the scheme of McCown and Keith 
(1939, fig, 164). Stippling indicates missing bone. Note that drawing of Shanidar II 
has been adjusted to Improve on the actual restoration. 



Smithsonian Report, I96t. — Stewart 



Plate 7 




1. Inner aspect of right side of restored lower jaw of Siianidar II. 




2. Inner aspect of right side of restored lower jaw of Shanidar I. 



Smithsonian Report, 1961. — Stewart 




O ^ 
P CO 




^ 


1) 


,^ — ^ 


TJ 


■»-j 


Is 





JS 


& 


U 


ni 


u 


<-> 




rt 




n! 


O 

(X 

o 




42 
1) 




o 
2 




c 




_rt 


_D 







<u 


'a? 


ni 






^ 


C 


^_^ 


a, 


rt 


'rt 


o 
nS 




O 
OS 


4-» 




C 
u 



^ u ••:; S 



^.^' 








O 


-T3 











C 


;-, 




r^ 


rt 


i^ 


OS 








6i) 

P, 




:3 


P^ 


"n 


a 


C 


-C 




u 



Smithsonian Report, 1961. — Stewart 



PLATE 9 




TT' 



1. \ iew of a temporary restoration of the upper jaw of Shanidar II showing tentative 
identification of damaged anterior teeth. 




-ii.»»--;..rFjti,_ 




2. d, l\.aJiOj;i.»p;i i_,l right upper lUulai- iccik ul ShaniJar li made in VJ?~. o. Same for 
Shanidar I. c. Radiograph of the right lower molar teeth of Shanidar II made in 1957. 
d, Same for Shanidar I. (Courtesy of Radiological Institute, Baghdad.) 



SKULL OF SHANIDAR II — STEWART 



527 



Orbital shape and size are indicated from the preserved lateral bor- 
der on the right (fig. 3) and the medial border on the left (fig. 4). 
In both areas the likeness to Shanidar I is strong. 




SHANIDAR II 




SHANIDAR I 



Figure 3. — Stereographic drawing of a fragment of the right side of the face of Shanidar 
II compared with a stereographic drawing of the same area in Shanidar I. 



..••r"i 



I 




Figure 4. — Stereographic drawing of a fragment of the midface of Shanidar II. Note 
"inflation" of area between orbit and nose indicated by line of dashes. This Hne is the 
shortest surface distance between its terminal points. By laying the fragment on its 
side this Hne can be made to coincide with the horizontal plane. 



528 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

Nasal shape and size are indicated by a fragment of the left side 
extending from the nasofrontal suture to the midportion of the 
nasal aperture (fig. 4). A convincing orientation of this fragment 
can be made aroimd a nasal aperture of the same size and shape as that 
of Shanidar I. In this connection it is important to note that the 
region between the lower medial corner of the left orbit and the upper 
left margin of the nasal aperture is preserved and shows the "inflated" 
form so typical of these primitive faces and so unlike the troughlike 
form seen here in modern man. Furthermore, it was possible to work 
out the form of the floor of the nasal cavity (pi. 8, fig. 1, and text 
fig. 5) and to discover that this floor is depressed just as in Shanidar I. 




Figure S. — Stereographic drawing of fragment shown in plate 8, figure 1, showing how 
the latter would appear in sagittal section with an incisor tooth in place. 

Likely, also, the lower margin of the nasal aperture was fairly dis- 
tinct as in Shanidar I ; in other words, a nasal gutter is absent. 

Turning now to the side of the face (fig. 3), we see some differences 
between Shanidar II and Shanidar I. The orbital process of the 
malar bone is broad and heavy looking in Shanidar II, slender and 
gracile in Shanidar I. The temporal border of the malar is indented 
at an acute angle in Shanidar I, at nearly a right angle in Shanidar II. 
The whole zygomatic arch is heavier in Shanidar II. Added to all 
this is a difference in the form of the body of the malar in the two 
specimens: In Shanidar II this part is rounded and prominent, in 
Shanidar I it is flat. Less obvious in figure 3 is the fact that the 
infratemporal surface of the maxilla is curved from side to side in 
Shanidar II, but flattened in Shanidar I. These variations probably 
compensate for one another insofar as the size of the maxillary sinus 
is concerned. In both specimens this sinus is immense. 

Figure 3 shows one other marked difference, namely, the presence 
of large alveolar exostoses in Shanidar II and their absence in Shani- 
dar I. Plate 8, figure 2, shows how symmetrical the exostoses are on 
the two sides. It would seem that such exostoses bear no relationship 
to the process of mastication, since the teeth of Shanidar II are much 



SKULL OF SHANIDAR II — STEWART 529 

less worn than those of Shanidar I and the latter lacks exostoses of 
this sort. In any case, as far as I know at present, this is the earliest 
example of alveolar exostoses to come to light. 

DENTITION 

As explained at the beginning, all the lower teeth with the exception 
of the right central incisor were recovered. Three of the upper teeth 
are missing: a canine (left?), a lateral incisor (left?), and a central 
incisor (right ?).° The uncertainty about the position of these upper 
teeth is due to the difficulty of identifying some of the front teeth 
that were recovered. The damage to the midface at the time of 
discovery reduced some of the teeth to fragments and all the pieces 
were not recovered. Plate 9, figure 1, shows the occlusal surfaces of 
the upper teeth according to the best identification that could be made 
under the circumstances. By comparison with the corresponding view 
of the lower teeth (pi. 6, fig. 1) it is evident that in both jaws tooth 
wear increases from the third molars forward to the incisors. Also, 
in the upper jaw wear is greatest on the lingual cusps, whereas in the 
lower jaw it is greatest on the buccal cusps. The teeth of the two 
sides appear to be worn about equally. 

The teeth of Shanidar II can be compared with those of Shanidar I 
only in a general way, because of the difference in wear. So worn 
are all the teeth of Shanidar I that the exposure of dentine is com- 
plete in all cases and in a few (first molars, canines, incisors) little 
or no enamel remains. A notable fact, however, is the rather uniform 
size of the lower molars in both specimens. The upper molars are 
shorter and broader, and the upper third molars have undergone 
slight reduction in the proximo-distal diameter. This is shown by the 
following measurements (in millimeters) of the Shanidar II molars: 

Proximo-distal diameter Bucco-UiKjual diameter 

R 10. ,, r R 11. ,,3 f R 12. „ f R 10. 7 



^' ^ L 10.0 ^^— -{l 12:0 ^^'-—II 12.0 ^^— -|L 11.0 



L 10.5 |L 12.2 [L 12.5 [L 11.2 



L 10.5 [L 11.3 [L 12.0 [L 11.0? 

Even more remarkable is the size of the lower incisors in both Shani- 
dar specimens; they are very large bucco-lingually as compared with 
corresponding modern teeth. The lower lateral incisors of Shanidar 

•After this paper was completed, I accidentally discovered three loose upper anterior 
teeth among some postcranial fragments of Shanidar I. It seems likely that these are 
the missing teeth of Shanidar II, but more study is needed to settle this point. 



530 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

II have their greatest bucco-lingual diameter below the enamel and 
it amounts to 9 mm. The figure is only a little less in the case of 
Shanidarl (8.0-8.2 mm.). 

A selection of the radiographs made in 1957 are given in plate 9, 
figure 2, a-d. These show moderately large pulp cavities in the only 
slightly worn molars of Shanidar II and greatly reduced pulp cavities 
in the much worn molars of Shanidar I. Neanderthals are no longer 
regarded as being unusual in their tendency to taurodontism (large 
pulp cavities). 

SKULL VAULT 

Eelative to size the skull vault yielded less information than the 
lower jaw and face. This was to be expected, because so little of the 
vault is characterized by surface relief. Fortunately, the one area 
that does have surface relief, the occiput, is preserved in its right half. 
The intact fragment (fig. 6) includes, among other things, half of the 
lambdoid suture, the mastoid process, and half of the foramen mag- 
num. Viewed from the outside, the moderately intricate pattern of 
the lambdoid suture stands out boldly, showing no signs of closure; 
but on the inside there is no such pattern, only a fissure, or more likely 
a postmortem crack. I conclude, therefore, that endocranial suture 
closure has taken place in this area. As so often is the case, the ex- 
ternal part of this suture is made up of serrations of bone from the 
occipital overlapping the parietal elements. It is noteworthy, also, 
that the suture takes a fairly direct course from the midline to the 
point of juncture with the temporal bone. This is very different from 
the curving course of the suture in Shanidar I (fig. 6) and may denote 
more dolichocrany. 




SHANIDAR II SHANIDAR I 

Figure 6. — Stereographic drawing of right occipitotemporal fragment of Shanidar II 
compared with a stereographic drawing of the same area in Shanidar I. Both specimens 
oriented with the sagittal axis of the foramen magnum horizontal. 



SKULL OF SHANIDAR II — STEWART 531 

The mastoid process of Shanidar II is much larger than that of 
Shanidar I ; indeed the tip of the process extends lower than that of 
the occipitomastoid crest, which is the reverse of the situation in 
Shanidar I. Such a large mastoid process is unusual in Neanderthals. 
However, the occipitomastoid crest still is larger than in modern man. 
(Cf. Stewart, 1961). The occipitomastoid suture is still open. 

The foramen magnum must have had a long oval shape just as in 
Shanidar I. Probably in both cases the length was around 41 to 42 
mm. and the width around 26 to 28 mm. The right occipital condyle 
of Shanidar II and both condyles of Shanidar I impress me as being 
small in proportion to the size of the foramen. The posterior border 
of the right condyle of Shanidar II is not well defined owing to the 
presence here of an arthritic area. This is the reason for the question 
mark in the following list of measurements of the occipital condyles : 

Shanidar 



Maximum length (mm. ) . 
Maximum width (mm.)- 





/ 


II 


R 


23.5 


25.0? 


L 


22.0 





R 


11.0 


13.0 


L 


13.0 






The occipital torus has about equal prominence in the two specimens, 
but is shorter in Shanidar II in conformity with the generally nar- 
rowed upper part of the occipital squama in this specimen. 

As for the rest of the vault, only a few additional facts could be 
gleaned. The sagittal suture is gone entirely. A good part of the 
area of the left half of the coronal suture is present. Unlike the 
external lambdoid suture, the external coronal does not stand out 
boldly and has disappeared lateral to the temporal line. Loss of 
inner table here makes it impossible to determine the status of the 
suture internally. 

The original thickness of the skull vault could not be investigated 
in many places, but it was noted that the midright parietal reached 
a maximum thickness of 11 mm. at one point. The surrounding area 
did not exceed 8 to 9 mm. in thickness. Much the same thing was 
observed in Shanidar I. Thus, these skulls would not be considered 
primitive on the basis of vault thickness. 

In view of the fact that Shanidar I has ear exostoses, the remains 
of the right auditory meatus of Shanidar II were explored and a 
loose nodule of bone resembling an exostosis recovered. This finding 
obviously contains the elements of wishful thinking and therefore 
does not deserve to be accepted as proof of the existence of ear ex- 
ostoses in this case. 

DISCUSSION 

The reason for comparing the second skull found in Shanidar cave 
mainly with the first skull is their differing antiquity. Shanidar II 



532 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

was found 81/^ feet lower in the cave deposit than Shanidar I (and 
some distance to the west) and on this basis is judged to be 10,000 to 
15,000 years older (Solecki, 1960a and b). One no longer expects to 
discover an evolutionary change in skull form in such a short period of 
time, so interest now centers on learning more about individual vari- 
ability in those ancient times (in this case up to about 60,000 years 
ago). The roughly contemporaneous Mount Carmel Neanderthals 
of Palestine were found by McCown and Keith (1939) to be so vari- 
able that these authors considered them to be in "the throes of evolu- 
tionary change." The writer, on the other hand, has argued (1960) 
that the Mount Carmel remains represent two very different isolates, 
one of which was present at Shanidar. This is based mostly on a 
peculiarity of the pubic bone, a part unfortunately not recovered in 
the case of Shanidar II. In view of these diverse opinions, and con- 
sidering that Shanidar cave is located in a mountainous area 
(virtually a refuge area), it is of current interest to know whether 
or not Shanidar presents a parallel to Mount Carmel in individual 
variability. 

The results of my present investigation lead me to conclude that 
the first two Shanidar skulls are remarkably alike in features unaf- 
fected by age changes. Both appear to be almost classic Neander- 
thals; also, both possess a curious feature — depression of the nasal 
floor — which thus far appears to be unique to the inhabitants of this 
cave. I am immensely impressed that this unique feature occurs in 
two skulls from the same place but so widely separated in time. I am 
much less impressed by the accompanying variations in such things 
as mastoid size, face flatness, etc. Variations of the latter sort, like 
differences in stature, occur in every population and are too often 
given undue emphasis when observed in isolated ancient specimens. 

The Fourth Shanidar Expedition discovered remains of other Nean- 
derthals from both levels before this report was completed. This 
new material should add more to our knowledge of the variability of 
the local population at each time period. Unfortunately, however, 
experience shows that much time and effort will have to be expended 
on restoration and study before the information from this source will 
be forthcoming. For the present, therefore, the evidence indicates 
that the Shanidar Neanderthals retained an almost classic skull form 
from about 60,000 years ago until about 45,000 years ago, when the 
Mousterian cultural period ended and, as far as we know, the type 
disappeared. 

LITERATURE CITED 

McCowN, Theodore D., and Keith, Sir Akthue. 

1939. The stone age of Mount Carmel. The fossil human remains from 
the Lavalloiso-Mousterian, vol. 2, xxiv-j-390 pp., pis. 1-28, Oxford. 



SKULL OF SHANIDAR II — STEWART 533 

SoLECKi, Ralph S. 

1957. Shanidar cave. Sci. Amer., vol. 197, No. 5, pp. 58-64. 

1960a. Neanderthal men in the heart-land of human evolution : Discoveries 
at Shanidar cave, in northern Iraq. Illus. London News, May 7, 
pp. 772-775. 

1960b. Three adult Neanderthal skeletons from Shanidar cave, northern 
Iraq. Ann. Rep. Smithsonian Inst, for 1959, pp. 603-635. 
Stewaet, T. D. 

1958. First views of the restored Shanidar I skull. Sumer, vol. 14, Nos. 1 

and 2, pp. 90-95. Reprinted in Ann. Rep. Smithsonian Inst, for 

1958, pp. 473-480, 1959. 
1960. Form of the pubic bone in Neanderthal man. Science, vol. 131, May 

13, pp. 1437-1438. 
1981. A neglected primitive feature of the Swanscombe skull. In Homenaje 

a Pablo Martfnez del Rio en el xxv aniversario de la edicion de Los 

Orlgenes Americanos, pp. 207-217. Mexico. 
1962. Neanderthal cervical vertebrae, with special attention to the Shanidar 

Neanderthals from Iraq. Bibl. Primat, vol. 1 (Adolph H. Schultz 

anniversary volume). 



Heyerdahl's Kon-Tiki Theory and 
Its Relation to Ethnobotany 



By F. P. JONKER 

Professor of Special Botany 
University of Utrecht, Netherlands 



It is well known that in the year 1947 an expedition conducted 
by the Norwegian biologist and ethnologist Thor Heyerdahl crossed 
the eastern Pacific by balsa raft. The voyage started in Peru and 
after 101 days reached the Polynesian island of Karoia. Inspiring 
this voyage was Heyerdahl's theory that the Polynesian islands had 
been populated not from a western direction, i.e., from the Malaysian 
area by way of Micronesia or Melanesia, but that Polynesia had been 
reached by two successive waves of immigrants from America. Ac- 
cording to this concept, the first immigrants reached Polynesia by 
balsa raft about A.D. 500 from South America; the second wave 
arrived more than 500 years later by double canoes, perhaps from 
Asia but using British Columbia as a temporary steppingstone. This 
theory, consequently, assumes that the first wave of immigrants, iden- 
tified by Heyerdahl with a pre-Inca population of Peru, crossed the 
eastern Pacific. To support this concept, he utilized arguments from 
mythology, language, and culture, referring especially to buildings 
and to such monoliths (megaliths) as statues representing human 
figures. 

The principal objection originally expressed against this theory 
was that these Peruvian Indians were no navigators. They possessed 
boats made of totora reed [Scirpus totara (Nees et Meyen) Kunth), 
in which they sailed on Lake Titicaca, and rafts of the very light 
balsa wood, Ochroma lagopus Sw., by which they navigated the 
coasts. It was conunonly believed, however, that these rafts would 



1 Slightly modified and translated by the author from his "Heyerdahl's Kon-Tlkl Theorie 
en de Ethnobotanie," delivered as his inaugural address as professor of special botany at 
tho University of Utrecht, Netherlands, on Nov. 21, 1960 ; the original Dutch version was 
separately printed In Amsterdam as of that date. 

625325—62 36 535 



536 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

not be seaworthy and that they would by no means be suitable craft 
on which to cross the ocean. Heyerdahl then decided to make a faith- 
ful copy of an old Peruvian balsa raft, and on this, witli five com- 
panions, he attempted to cross the eastern Pacific driven by wind and 
by currents. As mentioned above, this daring voyage succeeded and 
the raft and its passengers arrived in good condition on the reef of 
Raroia in the Tuamotu Islands. The raft was equipped as it might 
liave been 1,500 years ago with the exception of a wireless set and 
certain other modern inventions. In addition to fruits and tubers 
which they took along, the travelers obtained from the sea sufficient 
food for the voyage. Such a journey liad great appeal to the general 
public, and Heyerdahl's popular account became a bestseller and 
was translated into many languages. But wlien we ask ourselves 
what was proved by this adventurous expedition, we must answer 
that the voyage established only that it is possible to cross this part 
of the Pacific Ocean from east to west by means of a balsa raft pro- 
vided with sails. The trip did not prove that the pre-Incas or any 
other South American inhabitants left Peru in that way and formed 
the original population of Polynesia. To be fair to Heyerdahl, one 
must add that he never made such a claim. The popular book de- 
scribing this voyage, "The Kon-Tiki Expedition" (1948), provided 
its author with enough income so that he was able to fit out another 
expedition, this time to Easter Island, where he collected more data 
to support his theory. 

In 1952 Heyerdahl published a detailed voluminous work, "Amer- 
ican Indians in the Pacific," in which he collected all the arguments 
in favor of his theory. In the present review I omit the arguments 
borrowed from language, cultures, mythology, anthropology, zoology, 
and other disciplines. I wish only to remark here that the author 
gives evidence of his wide knowledge of both western South America 
and Polynesia, but on the other hand he appears to be not very familiar 
with Indonesia. In the following pages I restrict myself to a discus- 
sion of his botanical documentation, especially in the field of ethno- 
botany. Such documentation we find assembled in a special chapter 
of his book. 

Before Heyerdahl's study appeared, the occurrence and use of the 
sweet potato, Ipomoea 'batatas (L.) Lam., in Polynesia had already 
been amply discussed in the ethnobotanical literature. In a publica- 
tion by Dixon (1932, p. 40), we find the problem summarized in the 
following words : 

If we accept the present conclusions of the botanists that the sweet potato 
is a plant of undoubted Central or South American origin, then the fact of its 
widespread occurence in Polynesia in the eighteenth century, as reported by the 



HEYERDAHL'S KON-TIKI THEORY — JONKER 537 

great explorers of the period, can be explained only in one of three ways. Either 
the plant had been introduced by the Spanish from South America in the six- 
teenth and seventeenth centuries when the earliest European discoveries in the 
Pacific were being made, or it was of pre-Columbian introduction accomplished 
either by Polynesians who visited South America and brought the new food plant 
back with them, or by Peruvian or other American Indian navigators who carried 
it with them in exploring voyages to the west. 

The first possibility may be rejected for sound historical reasons : 
the first European travelers reported the occurrence of extensive plan- 
tations of sweet potatoes in the islands visited. The second possibility 
is frequently accepted. The third alternative is the one emphasized 
by Heyerdahl, who argued that the crop is known in Polynesia by 
its Peruvian name "kumara," and also that, according to old myths, 
the ancestors of the Polynesians originated from the country where 
the "kumara" grew. Kiesenfeld (1951), on the other hand, states 
that according to old Polynesian myths the native country of the 
Polynesians was situated somewhere in the west. Also, Sir Peter H. 
Buck, the distinguished former director of the Bernice P. Bishop 
Museum in Honolulu and a recognized authority in the field of Poly- 
nesian myths and legends, nowhere in his most readable book "Vikings 
of the Sunrise" (1937) mentions tales to the effect that the Polynesians 
came from the east. It was Buck's belief that a Polynesian canoe 
expedition in pre-Colmnbian times left the Marquesas and, sailing 
in an easterly direction, reached Peru. After disembarking on the 
continent, the travelers returned after a short stay in fear of conflicts 
with the natives, first laying in a supply of sweet potatoes, perhaps 
among other foods. Harold St. John ( 1953, 1954) , an authority on 
the vegetation of Polynesia, considered Buck's theory the most likely 
explanation of the early occurrence of Ipomoea hatatas in the Poly- 
nesian archipelago. E. D. Merrill, a leading student of the Aus- 
tralasian tropical flora and a decided opponent of Heyerdahl's theory, 
at first (1937) considered the sweet potato of American origin and 
the single American plant among the species mentioned by Heyerdahl. 
However, in one of his last publications (1954) Merrill stated that 
it is now admitted that /. hatatas may have originated outside of 
America, possibly in Africa, by hybridization. In that case it could 
have been carried across the Atlantic to America a few centuries before 
Columbus reached the West Indies, and perhaps even earlier by way 
of Madagascar and the Mascarene Islands to Malaysia, Papuasia, and 
Polynesia, and even to the west coast of South America. Certainly 
an investigation of the African species of Ipomoea is needed in order 
to clarify this hypothesis, and such an investigation may give the prob- 
lem quite another aspect. According to Merrill, moreover, it is also 



538 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

possible that the vernacular name "kumara" is of Polynesian origin 
and reached Peru together with the plant.^ 

A second plant grown in pre-Columbian times both on the Ameri- 
can Continent and in the Pacific islands is the bottle gourd, LagenaHa 
siceraria (Mol.) Standi. As a food crop this species was unimportant, 
but as a supplier of containers for water and other liquids it was and 
still is an extremely significant plant in tropical countries. Without 
doubt this species is of African origin. It was found in the Egyptian 
royal graves dating from 3000 B.C., and Captain Cook reported it as 
grown in Polynesia on his first voyage in 1769. The use of the bottle 
gourd spread from Africa over the Old World, and Eames and St. 
John (1943) believed that the distribution both on the American 
mainland and in the Pacific could be explained, as in the case of the 
sweet potato, by a hypothetical canoe expedition from Polynesia to 
Peru as suggested by Buck (1937). The Polynesian travelers would 
have taken the bottle gourd to South America with them and on the 
return voyage they would have brought back the sweet potato. Plow- 
ever, more recently discovered data have made this hypothesis unten- 
able, because archeological investigations in Peru have indicated that 
bottle gourd remains were, according to radiocarbon dating, 3,000 to 
5,000 years old. This means that the species had been used in Peru 
long before the Polynesians lived in the Pacific islands. It is of 
course possible that Polynesian canoe expeditions fetched bottle 
gourds from Peru rather than having introduced them into that coun- 
try. Pleyerdahl believes that the bottle gourd reached South America 
at that early date through navigators from Africa, and that from 
Peru, together with the sweet potato, it reached Polynesia when those 
islands were populated by Peruvian pre-Incas. 

Therefore the history of the distribution of the bottle gourd all 
over the Tropics is still unknown. In addition to the distribution by 
migrating pre-Incas, as suggested by Heyerdahl, the possibilities exist 
either that the gourd was taken home by a Polynesian canoe expedi- 
tion that visited South America, or that it was introduced into Poly- 



2 For a discussion of the sweet potato problem, see also Hornell (1946). Very Interesting 
comments on the sweet potato were made at the recent 10th Pacific Science Congress, In 
Honolulu, at a symposium entitled "Plants and the Migrations of Pacific Peoples," con- 
vened by Dr. Jacques Barrau on Aug. 28, 1961. At this symposium Dr. Douglas B. Yen 
expressed the opinion that Ipomoea batatas, a hexaplold and heterozygous species, was of 
hybrid origin in America, where the greatest morphological variability of the cultivated 
plant is seen. He pointed out that the species frequently produces seeds, each of which 
has the potential of developing into a distinct race, and that transportation could con- 
ceivably have been by nonhuman agencies. Dr. Ichlzo Nlshiyama Indicated the probability 
that T. batatas was derived from the American Ipomoea triflda (H.B.K.) Don, also a 
hexaplold. In the same symposium Dr. Harold C. Conklin presented linguistic evidence 
to Indicate that the sweet potato in Africa, Indonesia, and adjacent regions was almost 
certainly a European introduction. This symposium, which one hopes may be published 
in full, reached no conclusion as to the identity of the humans who may have first 
transported the sweet potato across the eastern Pacific. 



HEYERDAHL'S KON-TIEl THEORY — ^JONKER 539 

nesia from Melanesia or from Micronesia — to say nothing of the pos- 
sibility that the Polynesians reached their present living area by one 
of these latter routes. The oldest known finds in southeastern Asia 
indicate the occurrence of the bottle gourd in China sometime before 
the beginning of our era. For the sake of completeness, I must also 
add that Heyerdahl further adduces evidence that both in Peru and 
in some Polynesian islands gourds were used to make flutes. 

Merrill (1954) believed it most probable that bottle gourds reached 
the South American coast from Africa in a floating state. Pie men- 
tioned floating experiments showing that these gourds could stand 
floating in salt water for nearly 2 years and still contain viable seeds. 
He also was unable to provide any other explanation. 

A third very important crop occurring already in pre-Columbian 
times both on the American mainland and on the Pacific islands, and 
in fact in nearly all tropical regions, is the coconut, Cocos nucifera L. 
Formerly this distribution was ascribed to the ability of the coconut 
to float for a long period. However, floating experiments have shown 
that coconuts drifting in sea water rather quickly lose their powers 
of germination, and that fruits floating more than 110 days are no 
longer viable. Heyerdahl's voyage on the Kon-Tiki raft supplied an 
important contribution, as the crossing lasted 101 days ; but of course 
smaller objects drift somewhat more slowly. It seems out of the ques- 
tion, consequently, that drifting coconuts can cross this part of the 
Pacific within the critical period of 110 days. Moreover, the coconuts 
that floated on the raft in sea water decayed, and then the pelagic 
fauna rapidly completed their deterioration. However, the other coco- 
nuts on the raft that were not subjected to the sea water maintained 
their viability. I agree with Heyerdahl in concluding that the dis- 
tribution of Cocos in pre-Columbian times was possible only with 
the help of man. 

But there is no unanimity among botanists concerning the region of 
the origin of the species. A number of botanists regard South 
America as such, and especially either Colombia or Panama, since 
related genera and species occur in those countries. Also, old travel 
stories reported rich coconut vegetation in regions not previously 
visited by European travelers. Other competent botanists, e.g., Merrill 
(1937, 1954), are convinced, following Alphonse de Candolle (1883), 
that the species originated in the Old World Tropics. It is not neces- 
sary in this paper to review Merrill's arguments, but I shall only 
remark that his mention of fossil species, probably belonging to the 
genus Gocos^ in both New Zealand and in India, in my opinion is 
irrelevant. Distribution by man must be connected with the recent 
area of distribution of the species. A large number of genera and 
species in Tertiary times occupied an area covering two or three con- 



540 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

tinents, whereas these same groups in recent times are restricted to a 
part of one continent only. We must conclude that the distribution of 
Gocos nucifera does not establish anything in favor of Heyerdahl's 
theories, since no certainty exists as to its original area. Heyerdahl 
also agrees with tliis conclusion. Buck (1937) cited a Polynesian 
myth in which the coconut is said to have originated from the head 
of the demigod Tuna after he was beaten and killed; the nut still 
shows the mouth and eyes of Tuna. This story of course does not 
cast any light on the situation. Eiesenfeld (1951) has called atten- 
tion to the fact that archeological investigations in Peru have never 
brought to light the remains of coconuts. 

Up to the present, only the three useful plants discussed above can 
cast doubt upon the final conclusions of Alphonse de Candolle (1883) 
in his classical work "Origine des plantes cultivees." De Candolle, in 
that work (English translation of 1885, pp. 461, 462) wrote: "In the 
history of cultivated plants I did not find any indication as to contact 
between the populations of the Old World and of the New World 
before the discovery of America by Columbus." And he added, 
"Between America and Asia perhaps two transports of useful plants 
took place : one by man [sweetpotato] , the other either by man or by 
currents [coconut]." 

Much dependence is placed upon cotton by Heyerdahl. In Poly- 
nesia some wild species occur ( Gossypimn taitense Pari, and G. toTnen- 
tosum Nutt.), and Heyerdahl here refers to the investigations of J. B. 
Hutchinson, R. A. Silow, and S. G. Stephens (1947). These investi- 
gators found that the Old World species of cotton possess a haploid 
number of 13 large chromosomes, the wild American species of cotton 
have 13 small chromosomes, and the cultivated American cotton 
has 26 chromosomes: i.e., 13 large and 13 small ones. This means, 
according to them, that the cultivated American cotton is allopolyploid 
and originated by hybridization of Asiatic and American cotton. 
Since the cultivated cotton was known in America in pre-Columbian 
times, they assumed that the old, civilized, American populations 
introduced cotton on their voyages from Old World countries, and 
then developed the hybrids. Heyerdahl agrees with this conclusion 
and thinks it probable that this cotton reached America by the south- 
ern Atlantic. Hutchinson, Silow, and Stephens, moreover, stated that 
the wild Polynesian Gossypimn species, considered to be endemics, had 
26 chromosomes as in the American-cultivated cotton, and they also 
argued that Gossypium taitense was not a distinct species but a mere 
form of the American G. hirsutum var. punctatum (Schum.) J. B. 
Hutchinson et al. According to Heyerdahl we can thus arrive at only 
one conclusion: the migrating Peruvian population brought with 
them, from Peru, the cultivated cotton. In Polynesia, later on, the 
custom of cotton spinning was lost and the Polynesians took up the 



HETERDAHL'S KON-TIKI THEORY — JONKER 541 

use of bark for cloth. The distribution of cotton, in his opinion, is a 
still more obvious proof of his theory than that of the sweet potato 
and the bottle gourd. These plants, he believes, must have been taken 
to Polynesia by migrating South American Indians and not intro- 
duced by Polynesians from a return voyage to Peru. Wliy should 
Polynesians introduce cotton ? They were unaware of its use and did 
not know how to spin. 

In the tetraploid cotton theory of Hutchinson, Silow, and Stephens, 
however, one weak point exists. Their theory is based on the 
direct introduction by man of Asiatic cotton into America followed 
by its hybridization with some native American cotton. This hybrid- 
ization happened only there. But these facts have never been proved 
and it is doubtful if they can be proved. Therefore, it is quite mider- 
standable that there are dift'erent opinions to explain such a situation. 
Harland (1935, 1939) believes that the tetraploid cotton species origi- 
nated in Polynesia during Cretaceous or early Tertiary times. Ac- 
cording to him, Asiatic and American diploid species could have come 
mto contact by a land bridge over a portion of the Pacific of which 
the Polynesian Islands formed a part. Stebbins (1947) agrees with 
this theory as to the age, but rejects the land-bridge hypothesis. Ac- 
cording to him, the subtropical Eocene flora of North America con- 
sisted of a mixture of Asiatic and American elements and here the 
allopolyploids originated. From this center of origin they spread to 
South America and Polynesia, and after the deterioration of the 
climate they disappeared from North America. Merrill (1954) 
strongly disagreed with the theory of Hutchinson, Silow, and 
Stephens. To him a rather recent introduction of Asiatic species of 
Gossypiwn into tropical America seemed more reasonable. He re- 
jected the idea that civilized inhabitants of India traveled to America 
and took with them only cotton, remarking (p. 338) : "In claiming and 
inferring that early civilized man did introduce an Asiatic cotton 
species to America, the simple fact that not a single Asiatic cultivated 
food plant made the journey is overlooked; and food was infinitely 
more important 2,000 to 3,000 years ago than cotton!" Merrill also 
disagreed with the concept that the central Polynesian species Gos- 
sypium taitense could be identical with the American G. hirsutum 
var. punctatum. 

CaHca papaya L. is another cultivated plant mentioned by Heyer- 
dahl, and according to him introduced into Polynesia before the 
arrival of the Europeans. Its fruits are eaten by man and its juice is 
used to heal wounds. Consequently, it is a species that could support 
Heyerdahl's theory. In connection with this, Heyerdahl is quoting 
from F. B. H. Brown (1935), asserted by him to be a leading author- 
ity. On the other hand, Merrill (1954) , in reference to Brown's work 
states: "What he claims is, in general, most acceptable to those who 



542 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

argue for American origins, but unfortunately, his claims are almost 
all without foundation. ... I note so many extraordinary conclusions 
in his Flora of S.E. Polynesia that I think it is regrettable that no 
critical review of his work has ever appeared" (p. 250). Merrill 
points out that almost certainly Garica 'papaya was not establislied in 
Polynesia previous to the arrival of the Europeans. 

"VVliat is said of the papaya here is also true of the pineapple. 
Again Heyerdahl cites F. B. H. Brown (1935) in claiming the occur- 
rence of Ananas comosus (L.) Merr. in Polynesia before the arrival 
of the European navigators. These navigators, however, thoroughly 
recorded which plants they imported into the islands visited. And 
according to Merrill (1954), the earliest Polynesian record indicates 
that Captain Cook planted pineapple seeds in Tahiti in 1769. If 
Quiros, who sailed in 1595 from Peru to Polynesia, introduced either 
pineapples or papayas into the Marquesas Islands, he did not record 
this fact and we do not possess any statement of their occurrence there. 

Furthermore, Heyerdahl published a list of American plants, for 
the greater part weeds, which according to him occurred in early times 
in Hawaii. This list is borrowed from G. F. Carter, whose publica- 
tion (1950) is called by Merrill (1954, p. 252) an "extraordinary 
paper," which he further states contains many gross and inexcusable 
errors. Carter's list indeed is a strange one. It contains species 
related only to American species and even a number which are not 
American at all but of European origin. Heyerdahl, not professing 
to be a botanist, here uncritically accepts botanical assertions from a 
paper written by one who also is not a professional botanist, since 
they support his theory. 

Finally I wish to mention two species of plants which also are 
highly valued by Heyerdahl. The first of these is a species of the 
well-known genus Argemone, of which the best-known species, A. 
mexicana L., was introduced long ago from its native region, Mexico, 
into other tropical countries and also into Europe, especially as an 
ornamental. The species of this genus all occur in America except one, 
Argemone glauca (Nutt. ex Pram) Degener, which is endemic in 
Hawaii and which was collected there as early as the second voyage 
of Captam Cook in 1779. Heyerdahl refers to works by Fedde and 
Prain, who stated that A. glauca is only a variety of the North 
American A. alba Lestib., and who considered its proper name to be 
A. alba var. glauca Nutt. ex Prain. In Fedde's opinion, the plant is 
probably a hybrid of A. alba and A. mexicana. Since Heyerdahl holds 
the view that seeds of Argem,one cannot cross the ocean without human 
help, he concurs with Carter's opinion (1950) that the natives intro- 
duced this plant into Polynesia because of its medicinal properties, 
together with the sweet potato and the tetraploid cotton. Merrill 



HEYERDAHIi'S KON-TIKI THEORY — JONKER 543 

(1954, pp. 220, 259), on the other hand, states that still unpublished 
morphological and cytogenetic studies show that A. glauca is not 
related either to A. mexicana or A. alha. In his opinion, it is a 
Hawaiian endemic and an American element in the Hawaiian flora, 
not man introduced and not identical with any American representa- 
tive of the genus. He states (p. 259) : ". . . the American progeni- 
tor of this Hawaiian species reached Hawaii by natural means long 
before man appeared," and: "How long a period of isolation is 
required to develop specific differentiation within this genus we do not 
know." 

The other species deserving some attention is Heliconia hihai L. 
(Musaceae), a well-known component of the tropical American pri- 
meval and secondary forest. In pre-Columbian times the leaves of this 
plant were already used as roofing, to make walls, hats, mats, and 
for basket weaving. Here Heyerdahl refers to O. F. Cook ( 1904) , who 
was of the opinion that the species for this reason was introduced 
into Polynesia in prehistoric times. It maintained itself in the moun- 
tains of Samoa and in some other islands, and became extinct elsewhere 
in the region as its use by man died out, perhaps because Pandanus 
leaves appeared to be more serviceable. Merrill (1954), on the other 
hand, is of the opinion that the genus Heliconia has an originally 
Antarctic distribution. As a matter of fact, the Heliconiae occurring 
in the Moluccas, New Guinea, and some of the Polynesian islands do 
not, as indicated by Schumann (1900) in his monograph of the family, 
belong to H. hihai. They represent other species as recorded by Backer, 
Bakliuizen van den Brink, Sr., and other botanists working in the 
former Dutch East Indies. Moreover, as Merrill (1954, p. 306) states : 
''''Heliconia [&^A«^], once introduced and established in the tropics, is 
one of those groups of plants that simply do not 'die out,' unless there 
be a very radical change in climatic conditions." As a matter of fact, 
the group that has been passing as H. hihai in botanical literature is 
actually composed of numerous species, some of them very narrow 
endemics. Furthermore the leaves of these species are frequently 
utilized by the natives of Polynesia and Melanesia in their construc- 
tion of temporary shelters. 

An ethnobotanical argument which Heyerdahl does not discuss in 
his chapter on botany, but rather in his historical observations on old 
navigators, is based on stories indicating that these early navigators 
knew of a plant of which the leaves when chewed had the power to 
quench tliirst and to make sea water potable. This property might 
point to cocaine, and it is known that the early Peruvian Indians 
chewed the leaves of coca {Erythroxylmn coca Lam.) against weari- 
ness, thirst, and hunger. The old Polynesian legends also speak of the 
addition of lime, and this might point to a parallel with the chewing 



544 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

of sirih {Piper hetle L.) as well. But the use of Piper hetle would in- 
dicate an introduction of the practice from a direction contrary to that 
hypothesized by Heyerdahl.^ 

Another habit mentioned by Heyerdahl is the drinking of kava 
on special occasions in Polynesia. The drink in early days was made 
by women, who chewed the roots of Piper methysticum Forst. f . for 
that purpose. This practice Heyerdahl compares with the preparation 
and drinking of chicha in Andean South America. This latter drink 
originally was made only by women, who chewed corn; molasses is 
added to the mixture and is followed by fermentation of the juice. 
The result is a vile-smelling, milky suspension which is drunk to ex- 
cess by certain classes of the population. In my opinion, the parallel 
between kava and kasiri drinking, such as takes place among the In- 
dians in the interior of Siu-inam, where the drink is made from fer- 
mented chewed cassava {Manihot esculenta Crantz), is still stronger. 
Here also the chewing is usually done by women. But this custom, 
which occurs not only in Surinam but in many parts of the Amazon 
Basin, is apparently not known to Heyerdahl. Merrill does not men- 
tion Heyerdahl's arguments based on cocaine and kava. Apparently 
these items escaped him since they are not found in the botanical 
chapter of Heyerdahl's voluminous work. 

Having discussed the plant species regarded by a number of au- 
thors as introduced into Polynesia from America and for that reason 
mentioned by Heyerdahl in support of his theory, we should now 
concern ourselves with the absence of certain American-cultivated 
plants in the Polynesian area. It would have been very strange if 
the migrating pre-Incas had brought of their crops only sweet pota- 
toes and perhaps coconuts, and not corn {Zea mays L.), the most im- 
portant food plant of pre-Columbian America. That this species 
originated in America has been adequately demonstrated by the in- 
vestigations of Mangelsdorf and his collaborators. The hypothesis 
of Stonor and Anderson (1949) to the effect that corn was cultivated 
in India before the arrival of Europeans is rejected by Mangelsdorf 
and Oliver (1951) , who stated that there is no proof of the use of com 
in Asia in pre-Columbian times. As to its use and popularity, they 
compare maize in Asia with potatoes in Ireland. Merrill (1950, 
1954) is convinced that corn reached India by the Portuguese trade 
route from Brazil to Goa by way of the Cape of Good Hope. Heyer- 
dahl, also convinced of the American origin of maize, has accordingly 
some difficulties in explaining the established lack of corn in Polynesia 
before the arrival of Europeans. He suggests the possibilities that 
either the stock of corn was lost during the disembarkation of the 

» Actually, Piper betle Is nowhere used In Polynesia by the Polynesians themselves. Its 
use extends from India east to the Solomons. The only Polynesians who use it are the 
Polynesian "outliers" within Melanesia. 



HEYERDAHL'S KON-TIKI THEORY — JONKER 545 

immigrating Peruvian Indians, or that the growing of the imported 
maize failed. At least he does not permit the absence of maize to 
upset his theory, illustrating the point with the following parallel: 
If a burglar had somewhere lost his gloves with incriminating finger- 
prints, he cannot very well be excused on the basis that he did not 
also leave his coat, hat, and shoes behind him. 

In my opinion the absence of maize in Polynesia may also be ad- 
duced as evidence against the canoe expedition by Polynesians to Peru 
as suggested by Buck, St. John, and others; it is assumed that they 
carried home the sweet potato, which they also used as food during the 
voyage. Similarly, corn is easy to carry along and to put under cul- 
tivation, and the same also holds for the originally American beans 
belonging to the genus Phaseolus. It is known, however, that Spanish 
missionaries from Peru grew beans in Tahiti soon after Captain 
Cook's first voyage. These beans, however, were not accepted as a 
popular food by the natives. In Merrill's opinion (1950, 1954), the 
explanation lies in the probability that the Polynesians in those days 
were not a seed- or grain-eating people. For that reason, according to 
Buck's concept, they did bring back sweetpotatoes from their expedi- 
tions to Peru but neither corn nor beans. 

From the discussions above, it appears that Heyerdahl's arguments 
borrowed from the botanical evidence are not particularly strong. 
Wlien we except the coconut, which, because of its early pantropical 
distribution and the fact that its area of origin is unknown, must be 
regarded as unsuitable evidence, only a single food plant remains — 
that is, the sweet potato. And even if this is to be considered an 
originally American plant, a hypothesis that is open to doubt, it is 
merely an indication of a pre-Columbian contact between South 
America and Polynesia. This plant does not offer any conclusive 
proof as to the direction in which the contact took place. 

The bottle gourd may have reached Polynesia in pre-Columbian 
times by quite another route and consequently its present distribution 
does not support Heyerdahl's theories. The Polynesian species of 
cotton appear to be autochthonous and endemic. Other botanical 
arguments brought forward by Ileyerdahl are based on the opinions 
of a comparatively small number of authors, occasionally by a single 
author. These opinions are not shared by specialists in the field of 
tropical American or Polynesian vegetation and ethnobotany. Some- 
times these opinions have been founded on incorrect or doubtful data. 
Consequently, we must conclude that Heyerdahl's botanical evidence 
can hardly stand. It does not offer his theory any real support. In 
particular, the absence of nearly all the originally South American 
food plants in Polynesia before the arrival of the European navigators 
is significant. The food plants observed during the first voyage of 



546 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

Captain Cook in 1769, with the exception of the sweet potato, were all 
Malaysian and therefore presumably introduced from the west. 
Among such plants may be mentioned the taro {Colocasia esculenta 
(L.) Schott) as well as the related Alocasia macrorrhiza (L.) Schott 
and some other aroids, three species of yam {Dioscorea), some ba- 
nanas (species of Musa), and the breadfruit (Artocarpus altilis 
(Parkins.) Fosb.). Accordingly it is not surprising that two well- 
known specialists on the flora of Polynesia, Merrill and St. John, were 
outspoken opponents of Heyerdahl's theory. 

Similarly in ethnological circles the Kon-Tiki theory has been criti- 
cized and censured. I may briefly mention here the critical review 
by de Josselin de Jong (1953), professor of ethnology at the Uni- 
versity of Leiden, the Netherlands. De Josselin de Jong wisely did 
not comment too strongly on Heyerdahl's etlmobotanical ideas, but 
he definitely rejected the manner in which Heyerdahl in his botanical 
chapter adduced arguments in support of his theory. 

I also wish to mention here a critical review by the Viennese ethnolo- 
gist Heine-Geldern (1952), who similarly concluded that Heyerdalil 
failed to prove the American origin of the Polynesians. He pointed 
out, however, that we must not lose sight of Heyerdahl's real contri- 
bution, because he proved that a voyage — for instance a voyage home- 
ward of Polynesians who had managed to reach the South American 
coast — might be possible even if their food supply had become ex- 
hausted. Heine-Geldern amply reviewed Heyerdahl's botanical 
chapter. Of the mentioned species of plants, he discussed the coconut, 
rejecting an American origin for this plant; he stated that as early 
as a century before our era, coconuts were grown in India. The sweet 
potato, in his opinion, was brought to Polynesia from America by 
Polynesians. Finally he gives a detailed review of the cotton problem. 
He is firmly convinced that American cotton has been introduced 
into Polynesia, basing this conclusion upon the chromosome pattern 
of the American species. As to why this introduction was made, 
Heine-Geldern cites Miss Teuira Heniy ("Ancient Taliiti," Bishop 
Mus. Press) , who stated that in Tahiti cotton was formerly cultivated 
and was used to embalm the dead. By this expression we may pre- 
sumably understand that the body was filled with raw cotton. A 
somewhat similar custom occurred in Peru, but the practice may have 
been imported from Peru by Polynesians and not necessarily carried 
to Polynesia by Americans. Heine-Geldem's hypothesis is that the 
originally imported species of cotton became extinct, and afterward 
another species was brought into Polynesia which did become a sub- 
spontaneous weed, whereas the practice of "embalming" died out. 
However, every trace of proof is lacking. Heyerdahl (1951-1952), 
countering Heine-Geldern's critical review, stated that it referred 



HEYERDAHL'S K0N-TIE:I THEORY — JONKER 547 

to his popular account and was published before the appearance of 
his principal work, "American Indians in the Pacific." This coun- 
terargument, however, did not disclose any new aspects. 

In 1955 a doctor's thesis of the University of Amsterdam, the 
Netherlands, appeared, in which the author, Mrs. Heeren-Palm, tried 
to prove that the origin of Polynesian civilization was principally 
Indonesian. She dated the migration of the Polynesians out of 
Indonesia before the introduction of textile art and rice-growing in 
that region, and also before the influence of metal-working was notice- 
able. According to her, by the time the first European navigators 
reached Polynesia, relations and connections with the Indonesian 
countries were no longer maintained. Mrs. Heeren also paid atten- 
tion to the cultivated plants. She included a list of 30 such plants 
grown in Polynesia before the arrival of the Europeans. The greater 
part (14 species) of this list was borrowed from Forster (1777), and 
of the 30, only 3, according to Mrs. Heeren, are of American origin. 
As such she regarded the sweet potato {Ipomoea hatatas), the cotton 
(two species of Gossi/pium) , and the so-called large gourd. The last, 
however, was identified by Eames and St. Jolm (1943) as a true gourd, 
i.e., a form of Lagenaria siceraria (Mol.) Standi., and not as a squash, 
Cucurhita maxima Duch., as had been previously believed by Mrs, 
Heeren, among others. All the known species of Cucurhita are Ameri- 
can, but, as discussed above, the genus Lagenaria in all probability is 
of African origin and was widely distributed in the Tropics of both 
hemispheres as early as pre-Columbian times. The large gourd is an 
extreme form presumably developed by the Hawaiians. 

Mrs. Heeren amply discussed the plant species that she listed and 
showed their tropical Asiatic origin, but unfortunately a discussion of 
the sweet-potato problem is missing. She thinks it possible, because 
of Heyerdahl's Kon-Tiki voyage and excavations in the Galapagos 
Islands, that American Indians reached Polynesia on their balsa rafts, 
but she absolutely rejects the hypothesis of an American origin of the 
Polynesians. 

In 1955 and 1956 Heyerdahl visited Easter Island, and in his popular 
account of this trip, "Aku-Aku, the Secret of Easter Island" (1958), 
he adds two botanical arguments to his Kon-Tiki theory — the occur- 
rence of both the sweet potato and the totora reed {Scirpus totara) 
before the arrival of the first explorers. The former has been dis- 
cussed above. The latter species is also found in large quantities 
in Lake Titicaca in Peru and Bolivia. It is there used as a material 
for building houses and other shelters, and also for rafts and boats 
which are called "balsas," in which the natives have sailed on the 
lake from pre-Columbian times until the present. Easter Island, 
however, is considerably nearer the coast of South America than the 



548 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

other Polynesian islands. In connection with the distribution of this 
plant, I consider it wiser to wait until the scientific report of the 
investigations of Heyerdahl and his collaborators on Easter Island 
is published. At that time we shall know what conclusions he draws 
from the distribution of this particular plant. It is my surmise that 
this problem also is more complicated than it appears to be at first 
sight, since the occurrence of Scirpus totara is not restricted to Peru 
and Easter Island only. Merrill (1954) was, in my opinion, often too 
outspoken in opposing Heyerdahl's views, but nevertheless one must 
agree with him that these views were not entirely justified, perhaps 
because Heyerdahl too frequently depended upon the works of spe- 
cialists who were not entirely qualified to express detailed opinions 
in such an area. One must agree with Merrill's statement that "One 
can see little or no basis for the Heyerdahl claims that the Polynesians 
came from America, or that the American Indians ever peopled 
Polynesia proper." Merrill continues: "There seems to be no doubt 
that they did reach the Galapagos Islands, but these islands are not 
Polynesian, and they may accidentally have reached certain Pacific 
islands nearest to the west coast of America." 

REFERENCES 
Beown, F. B. H. 

1935. Flora of southeastern Polynesia III. Dicotyledons. Bernice P. Bishop 
Mus. Bull. l.SO, pp. 1-386. 
Buck, P. H. [Te Rangi Hiroa] . 

1937. Vikings of the sunrise. 335 pp. New York. 
Candolle, Alphonse de. 

1883. Origine des plantes cultiv^es. 377 pp. Paris. 
Cabtee, G. F, 

1950. Plant evidence of early contacts with America. Southwest. Journ. 
Anthrop., vol. 6, pp. 161-182. 
Cook, O. F. 

1904, Food plants of ancient America. Ann. Rep. Smithsonian Inst, for 
1903, pp. 481-497. 
Dixon, R. B. 

1932. The problem of the sweet potato in Polynesia. Amer. Anthropologist, 
n.s., vol. 34, pp. 40-66. 
Bames, a. J., and St. John, H. 

1943. The botanical identity of the Hawaiian Ipu Nui or large gourd. Amer. 
Journ. Bot., vol. 30, pp. 255-259. 
Foestek, J. R. 

1777. A voyage round the world in H.M.S. Resolution, commanded by Capt. 
Cook during . . . 1772-1775. London. (Also translated into 
German: Reise um die Welt. 1778-1783. Berlin.) 
Haeland, S. C. 

1935. The genetics of cotton. XII. Homologous genes for anthocyanin pig- 
mentation in New and Old World cottons. Journ. Genetics, vol. 30, 
pp. 465-476. 
1939. The genetics of cotton. 193 pp. London. 



I 



HEYERDAHL'S KON-TIKI THEORY — JONKER 549 

Heeben-Palm, C. H. M. 

1955. Polynesische Migraties. Thesis, Univ. Amsterdam, 189 pp. 
Heine-Geldebn, R. 

1952. Some problems of migration in the Pacific. Kultur and Sprache. 
Wiener Beitrage zur Kulturgeschichte und Linguistik, vol. 9, pp. 
311-362. 
Heyebdahl, Th. 

1948. The Kon-Tiki Expedition. London, Chicago. 

1951-1952. Some problems of aboriginal migration in the Pacific. Beiheft 1 
zu Archiv. f . Volkerkunde. vols. 6/7, pp. 1-8. 

1952. American Indians in the Pacific. The theory behind the Kon-Tiki 

Expedition. 820 pp. Stockholm, London, Oslo. 
1958. Aku-Aku, the secret of Easter Island. (Originally published in 
Norwegian. ) 

HOBNELL, J. 

1946. How did the sweet potato reach Polynesia? Jonrn. Linn. Soc. Bot., 

vol. 53, pp. 41-62. 
Hutchinson, J. B. ; Silow, R. A. ; and Stephens, S. G. 

1947. The evolution of Oossypium and the differentiation of cultivated cot- 

tons. 160 pp. Oxford University Press. London, New York, 
Toronto. 
Josselin de Jong, P. B. de. 

1953. The "Kontiki" theory of Pacific migrations. Bijdr. tot de Taal-, Land- 

en volkenkunde, vol. 109, pp. 1-22. 
Mangelsdobf, p. C, and Oliveb, D. L. 

1951. Whence came maize to Asia? Bot. Mus. Leafl. Harvard Univ., voL 
14, No. 10, pp. 263-291. 
Mebbh^l, E. D. 

1937. On the significance of certain oriental plant names in relation to 
introduced species : the coconut. Proc. Amer. Philos. Soc, vol. 78, 
pp. 112-146. (Reprinted in Merrilliana. A selection from the gen- 
eral writings of Elmer Drew Merrill. Chronica Botanica, vol. 10, 
No. 3/4, pp. 295-315, 1946.) 
1941. Man's infiuence on the vegetation of Polynesia, with special reference 
to introduced species. Proc. 6th Pacific Sci. Congr. (1940), vol. 4, 
pp. 629-639. (Reprinted in Merrilliana. A selection from the 
general writings of Elmer Drew Merrill. Chronica Botanica, vol. 10, 
No. 3/4, pp. 334-345, 1946.) 

1950. Observations on cultivated plants with reference to certain American 

problems. Ceiba, vol. 1, pp. 3-36. 

1954. The botany of Cook's voyages. Chronica Botanica, vol. 14, No. 5/6, 

pp. 161-384. 
Biesenfeld, a. 

1951. Kon-Tiki and Pacific migration. Natural History, vol. 60, pp. 50, 96, 

Amer. Mus. Nat. Hist., New York. 
St. John, H. 

1953. Origin of the sustenance plants of the Polynesians. Proc. 7th Int. 

Bot. Congr., Stockholm, 1950, pp. 152-154. 

1954. The vegetation of Hawaii at the time of Capt. James Cook in 1778- 

79 and a comparison with its present status. Huiti^me Congrgs 
Int. Botanique, Paris, 1954. Rapp. et Comm., aux sect. 21 h 27, pp. 
176-177. And Compt. Rend, des Stances et Rapp. et Comm. 
d^pos6s lors du Congr. dans les sect. 21 a 27, pp. 125-126. 



550 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

Schumann, K. 

1900. Musaceae. In A. Engler, Das Pflanzenreich IV, vol. 45, p. 36. 
Stebbins, G. L. 

1947. Evidences on rates of evolution from the distribution of existing and 
fossil plant species. Ecol. Monogr., vol. 17, pp. 149-158. 
Stonoe, C. R., and Andkkson, E. 

1949. Maize among the hill peoples of Assam. Ann. Missouri Bot. Garden, 
vol. 36, pp. 355-404. 



Reprints of the various articles in this Report may be obtained, as long as 
the supply lasts, on request addressed to the Editorial and Publications 
Division, Smithsonian Institution, Washington 25, D.C. 



Minerals in Art and Archeology 



By Rutherford J. Gettens 

Head Curator, Freer Gallery Laboratory 

Freer Gallery of Art 

Smithsonian Institution 



[With 8 plates] 



"From earth come stones, including the more precious kinds, and 
also the types of earth that are unusual because of their color, smooth- 
ness, density, or any other quality." Thus wrote Theophrastus in the 
fourth century B.C. at the beginning of his treatise "On Stones." 
The Greek philosopher realized the full importance to man of the 
mineral products of the earth. Since the dawn of civilization, man 
has tried to create useful and beautiful things for his living and 
creature comfort; he has sought unusual materials for personal 
adornment, for ceremonial and religious purposes, and for the expres- 
sion of ideas, both concrete and abstract. 

Man and art have developed side by side. The materials for art 
and invention have had to come from the three grand divisions into 
which formerly all natural objects were classified: animal, vegetable, 
and mineral. We might debate which of the three classes is the most 
important, but there is little doubt that the art materials chosen from 
the mineral kingdom are the most durable over long periods of time ; 
hence, from them we have learned indirectly most of what we know 
about the art and ideas of antiquity. Let us, therefore, take a special 
look at products of the mineral kingdom which have long served the 
artist well and will continue to serve him in the future. 

In this article we will use the term "mineral" in its narrower mean- 
ing to indicate natural inorganic species of earth substance of more 
or less constant composition ; we will not deal with "rocks," which are 
heterogeneous aggregates of two or more mineral species. Many 
mineral substances have been employed by the artist and artisan 
directly as they came from the earth, and with little preparation or 
manipulation, except for shaping and modeling as in sculpture, or 
by grinding to a powder for use as paint pigments. There are other 
minerals, however, which only indirectly and after a considerable 
amount of modification, either physical or chemical, can serve the 

625325—62 37 551 



552 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

artist's needs. A few of these occur widely and plentifully, hence are 
inexpensive, while others are rare and are sought for in distant places, 
hence are costly and precious. 

MINERALS IN SCULPTURE 

Several of the massive minerals have long been used to produce 
sculpture, including statuary and elements for the ornamentation of 
buildings, tombs, and monmnents. The first among these is marble, 
which is the crystalline metamorphosed form of limestone, or calcium 
carbonate. Marble is more extensively used today by sculptors than 
is any other form of stone. It is softer than granite and similar 
igneous rocks. Because it is denser and not so porous, it is more 
durable than limestone and other sedimentary formations [1].^ The 
important role played by marble in the plastic arts of Greece and 
Kome is well known. "Wliite marble from the quarries of Mount 
Pentelicus served the great artist Phidias for the ornamentation of 
the Parthenon ; the Greek island of Paros produced a coarser grained 
but pure-white marble of incomparable beauty, which was modeled 
by many of the famous Greek sculptors. The white marble of the 
quarries at Carrara in Italy was the favorite sculpture medium of 
Michelangelo, who carved it into figures of beauty and dignity such 
as the Madonna and Child in the Church of Notre Dame in Bruges 
(pi. 1, fig. 1). Variegated marbles have been widely used for table- 
tops and fireplaces and interior paneling. Polished black marble, 
especially "Belgian black," is highly regarded by modern sculptors. 

Alabaster is a mineral name with a double meaning. It is probably 
derived from the Greek word alahastron (L. alahastrum) ^ which is 
the name for the small stone flasks or vases used by the Egyptians for 
oils, ointments, and perfumes, having a flattened top with narrow 
orifice and a body usually rounded at the bottom, and without handle. 
Many are artistically conceived. Those alabastrums made in Egypt 
are usually cut from a hard compact form of calcite, somewhat trans- 
lucent and sometimes quite beautifully banded, which is nearly iden- 
tical with onyx (onyxlike) marble. The Egyptians also used calcite 
alabaster for makmg those strange "canopic jars" in which they pre- 
served the viscera of the deceased, usually for burial with the mummy. 
They bear on their covers carved heads, representative of the four 
genii of the dead called Amenti. Among objects in the exhibition 
of "Tutankhamun Treasures" recently circulated among American 
museums are several that are made from creamy alabaster. An 
especially fine piece is an alabaster lid from one of the compartments 
of the "canopic" chest which is in the form of the king's head [2]. 
To Egyptologists the term "alabaster" always refers to calcite. 

^Numbers In brackets indicate references at end of text. 



MINERALS IN ART AND ARCHEOLOGY — GETTENS 553 

The close relationship of calcite alabaster to onyx marble has been 
mentioned. Onyx marble is a banded calcite from shelf deposits 
formed about the orifices of hot springs. It is often beautifully 
tinted by metallic impurities and, because of its translucency and 
color, was used by the pre-Coliunbian inhabitants of Mexico for 
carving masks for religious purposes. A fine example of a pale 
green onyx marble mask is shown as frontispiece in the catalog of 
the Robert Woods Bliss collection of pre-Columbian art [3] . 

In Europe including England alabaster is the name given to a mas- 
sive and compact form of gypsum, calcium sulphate dihydrate (CaS04 • 
2II2O), of fine texture which is usually white and translucent. It 
is nearly as soft and as easy to work as soapstone and has been used 
especially in Italy since Roman times for carving vases and statuary. 
It is too soft and too easily weathered for general sculpture purposes, 
but was used extensively in England for the carving of tomb figures 
and for interior architectural ornamentation [4]. The gypsum was 
quarried in the Middle Ages near Tutbury in Stailordshire and near 
Derby. Many of the English alabaster sculptures were painted and 
gilded ; a fine example is the painted alabaster figure of Saint George 
and the Dragon in the National Gallery of Art, Washington (pi. 1, 
fig. 2) . The Hildburgh collection of English alabasters at the Victo- 
ria and Albert Museum, London, has many religious images and narra- 
tive panels in gypsum alabaster [5]. The so-called "Mosul Marble" 
used by the Assyrians is gypsum grading into anhydrite. Good ex- 
amples are the winged human-headed lions from the palace of Sar- 
gon II at Khorsabad which now stand in the entrance to the Assyrian 
Galleries in the British Museum [6]. Gypsum has long been em- 
ployed in Italy and in other areas for the production of ornamental 
vases, statuettes, and small stele for indoor use. 

The anliydrous form of calcium sulphate called anhydrite (CaS04) , 
although plentiful, had more limited use as a sculpture medium, but 
at both the Metropolitan Museum of Art and the Brooklyn Museum 
(pi. 2, fig. 1), one can see attractive bowls, vases, and figurines cut 
by the ancient Egyptians from a pale bluish variety of anhydrite. 
Both gypsum and anhydrite had another important use in art, which 
was for making plaster for wall construction and for casting pur- 
poses, but those uses will be discussed later. 

The sedimentary rocks, limestone, sandstone, and slate, and the 
igneous rocks of composite minerals like granite, porphyry, and di- 
orite have been transformed into beautiful and transportable objects 
by the sculptor's hammer, but these more common and massive forms 
of mineral and rock are not within the scope of this essay. We think 
of them mainly as architectural media. 

There is a group of minerals, however, sometimes called semipre- 
cious stones, which have been used since prehistoric times for minia- 



554 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

ture sculptures, ornamental inlays, and jewelry. Most of them have 
special appeal because they are hard and have a pleasing appearance, 
luster, and color. Many of these stones are inherently beautiful and 
require no modeling — only polishing — to bring out their artistic quali- 
ties. Perhaps first among these are two minerals which are collectively 
known as jade. One of them is a hard mineral made of the sodium 
almninum silicate, a member of the pyroxene group now called by its 
scientific name "jadeite." It was employed by the aborigines of 
Guatemala and other parts of Central America for carving and orna- 
mental purposes. The Spanish conquistadores called it piedra de 
ijada, or "stone of the side," because when worn on the loins it was 
supposed to cure kidney ailments. In the collection of the Honorable 
Kobert Woods Bliss, now on loan to the National Gallery of Art in 
Washington, one can see many fine examples of worked jadeite from 
Central America, including small images, ceremonial weapons, and 
mlays which vary in color from yellowish green to gray to black [7] . 
Perhaps the most familiar type of jadeite is that which comes mainly 
from Burma and is colored or mottled a bright emerald green from 
impurities of chromium. A selected variety of green jadeite called 
"imperial jade" is highly prized in the lapidary trade. 

The name "jade" is also given, by modern lapidarists, to a tough, 
hard stone which was valued by the ancient Chinese who called it yii. 
It is nephrite, a variety of amphibole or calcium magnesium silicate 
which is translucent white when pure, but there are colored varieties 
ranging through pale green, spinach green, and yellowish brown to 
black. Quantities of exquisitely worked nephrite have come from 
Chinese tombs of the first and second millenniums B.C. These are 
mostly ceremonial objects, small ornaments, figurines, and inlays [8]. 
The Freer Gallery of Art has a collection of nearly 500 nephrite 
objects from early Chinese tombs, among them many masterpieces of 
fine and delicate workmanship. It is believed that the main source 
of this nephrite was Chinese Turkestan in innermost Asia, where the 
jade was found in boulders in beds of streams which flowed out of the 
K'un-km Mountains in the vicinity of Khotan. A Russian writer, 
Kretchetova, says that nephrite was a matter of particular importance 
in the trade from Khotan to China. By order of the Chinese rulers, 
un wrought pieces of jade by thousands of pounds were brought to 
China over the great "silk roads" from the west. He adds that the 
Imperial treasury consisted to a considerable extent of jade and jas- 
per; the lack of it meant that the treasury was exhausted [9J. Dark 
green or "spinach jade" came mostly from the Lake Baikal region 
of Siberia. Many extraordinary pieces of nephrite carving have come 
out of ancient royal tombs in China dating from the first millennimn 
B.C. Some exceptional nephrite ceremonial axes and blades about 
30 inches long, 8 inches wide, and only about a quarter of an inch 



MINERALS IN ART AND ARCHEOLOGY — GETTENS 555 

thick are on exliibition in the Freer Gallery of Art (pi. 2, fig. 2). 
A number of good examples of "tomb jade" are pictured, many in 
color, in a recently published work on "Chinese Art" by Daisy Lion- 
Goldschmidt of Paris [10]. Many of these pieces were obviously 
made for religious and symbolic purposes, but over the centuries the 
meaning of the symbols has been lost. 

In the late 18th century in China, especially under the patronage 
of the Emperors K'ang-hsi and Ch'ien Lung, jade cutting was re- 
vived and many fine artisans were brought into the service of the 
Imperial Court. A new style was developed, entirely diflerent in 
artistic conception from the style of earlier times, which resulted in 
the production of large and flamboyantly worked vessels, plates, cups, 
ornamental pieces, and small screens. Many of them were in the 
shape and style of archaic bronzes. There are many fine examples of 
this kind of jade in the Vetlesen collection [11] adjoinmg the gem 
room in the Mineral Hall in the Museum of Natural History of the 
Smithsonian Institution (pi. 3, fig. 1) ; also in the Bishop collection 
of the Metropolitan Museum of Art and in the Dane collection in the 
Fogg Museum of Art, Harvard University. Jades of this period, 
because of their striking form and color, are often shown in catalogs 
and picture books on Chinese art [12] . Recently from Russia has come 
a splendidly illustrated book [9] showing unique pieces of Chinese 
carved stone including much jade of the iTth and 18th centuries in 
the famous Hermitage Museum in Leningrad. Many of the pieces 
were collected by the former czars and nobles of Russia. 

For a long time it was not realized by either Europeans or Chmese 
that the two kinds of minerals, jadeite and nephrite, are of different 
composition until this was demonstrated by Damour in 1863. Wlien 
pure, both varieties are white. Jadeite is an aggregate of small grains 
and has, when polished, a sort of vitreous luster. Nephrite, on the 
other hand, is built up of interlocking fibers, and has an oily luster ; 
hence, white nephrite is appropriately called "mutton fat" jade. 
Jadeite has a hardness of 6% on Mohs scale of 1 to 10; nephrite is 
slightly less hard — 6I/2 — but has a peculiar toughness which gives it 
greater resistance to lapidary tools and to breakage. Neither can be 
scratched with the point of a pocketknife, whereas some other min- 
erals used to imitate jade, such as serpentine, prophyllite, and steatite, 
can be. The two minerals can easily be distinguished and told from 
imitations by X-ray diffraction analysis. Nevertheless, both varieties 
of mineral will continue to be called "jade." 

Rock crystal or transparent crystalline quartz (silicon dioxide, 
SiOa) has been almost as important to art as jade. (PI. 3, fig. 2.) The 
stonecutters of the Chinese Imperial Court work it much like jade 
and converted long, stout crystals of clear quartz mto vases, jars, and 
statuettes. The Philadelphia Museum of Art possesses some marvelous 



556 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

examples of Chinese rock crystal. The production of flawless crystal 
spheres for crystal gazing was a tour de force enjoyed by Chinese lapi- 
darists. The crystal ball in the U.S. National Museum, which is 1278 
inches in diameter and weighs 106% pounds, is the largest known flaw- 
less sphere of this kind in the world. The quartz came from Burma 
and required 18 months labor in China for the cutting and polishing. 
Two fine crystal bowls of 17th-century Italian workmanship are shown 
in the Morgan Library, New York, and there are many notable rock 
crystal pieces in European collections [13]. Amethyst, which is a 
violet-tinted variety of crystal, was occasionally cut into small vases 
and dishes, but mostly it was used in antiquity for gems and beads. 

The hard cryptocrystalline forms of quartz like chalcedony, agate, 
carnelian, prase, and jasper have also been widely used by lapidarists 
for carving small figures, ornamental vases, and seals. They differ 
only in the fineness of their crystalline structure and translucency and 
in their color, which is caused by impurities — chiefly oxides and sili- 
cates of iron and manganese. 

Carnelian was a favorite medium of the cylinder seal makers of 
Babylon and Assyria. A. Lucas tells us that it occurs abundantly in 
the eastern desert of Egypt and was much used from predynastic 
times onward for inlay in jewelry, furniture, and coffins [14]. It 
was so highl}'^ valued that in later times an imitation carnelian con- 
sisting of translucent quartz set in red cement was often employed to 
supplement the genuine article as inlay. There are some striking 
white agate dishes ornamented with orange-red carnelian flowers cut 
from a single stone in the Bishop collection of the Metropolitan Mu- 
seum of Art. Carnelian and amethyst were sought after in ancient 
Egypt for making bead necklaces, although drilling of the holes in the 
beads must have required nearly inexhaustible patience. 

Agate, especially banded agate, is another excellent lapidary ma- 
terial, and even the purely functional agate mortar found in most 
present-day analytical chemical laboratories can be a work of art. 
One of the most notable ancient objects in agate is the carved vase 
once owned by the great painter Peter Paul Rubens, which is now one 
of the showpieces of the Walters Art Gallery in Baltimore (pi. 4, fig. 
1). According to Marvin Chauncey Ross, "It is a vessel over seven 
inches high carved from a single mass of agate, shading from a warm 
honey color to a milky white. The ornamentation is carved in very 
high solid relief thus adding some strengtli to the walls of the vase, 
which are worked to the thinness and translucence of porcelain." 
[15.] Rubens strongly admired the vase which Ross believes dates 
from the fourth or early fifth century A.D. and is Byzantine in origin. 
An engraving of it in the Berlin Print Cabinet is made after a drawing 
in Rubens' own sketchbook. 



MINERALS IN ART AND ARCHEOLOGY — GETTENS 557 

Flint is another cryptocrystalline variety of quartz and is allied to 
chalcedony, but it is opaque, usually in gray, brown, or even smoky 
tones. It was of prime importance to primitive man for tool and 
implement making because it could so easily be worked by flaking. 
Because of its dull color it was not much used for art forms, even for 
small sculpture, but many will agree that a finely worked flint knife 
or spear point is an artistic creation. Agatized or petrified wood is 
still another variety of quartz, and when well banded and streaked 
with red from iron oxide, it can be worked like onyx into attractive 
book ends and other sculptural forms. 

Some copper minerals, because of the bright colors, have been em- 
ployed for small sculptures and inlays. Perhaps the best known is 
banded malachite or green basic copper carbonate, which the Kussians 
got in considerable quantities from the Ural Mountains and worked 
into all sorts of shapes. A remarkable pair of large bronze vases clad 
with Russian malachite and ornamented with gilt bronze fittings is 
shown mounted on pedestals at the Natural'History Building of the 
U.S. National Museum. They came from the collection of Prince 
Demidoff and Princess Mathilde Bonaparte, his wife. Visitors to the 
Hermitage and museums of Moscow speak of the extraordinary 
amount of malachite lapidary and inlay work that can be seen there. 
The banding of alternate layers of dark green and light green seen 
in botryoidal masses of malachite produces interesting designs in inlay 
and mosaic. 

The use of turquoise, which is basic hydrous aluminum phosphate 
tinted with copper, as a lapidary mineral is well known to those who 
are familiar with the Indian-made silver jewelry of the American 
Southwest. An outstanding example is the pre-Columbian turquoise 
necklace and eardrops found by the Pueblo Bonito expedition in New 
Mexico now on display at the National Geographic Society in Wash- 
ington [16]. Turquoise was also employed effectively by Chinese 
silversmiths and goldsmiths for embellishing elaborately worked 
brooches and bracelets [17]. The Chinese gold and turquoise scepter 
in the Freer Gallery collection has been rightfully termed a "royal 
piece." Large pieces of carved turquoise are rare, but a Buddha 
carved from turquoise exhibited in the Harvard University collection 
of minerals and another in the Natural History Building of the U.S. 
National Museum are several inches high. A half-dozen bronze cere- 
monial dagger-axes at the Freer Gallery of Art are lavishly inlaid 
with small square-cut turquoise chips like the tessarae used in mosaic 
(pi. 4, fig. 2). 

Even some of the rarer minerals are used for lapidary purposes. 
A figure of the Chinese god of longevity, Shou-lao-hsien, carved in an 
altered form of yellow and black crocidolite called "tiger eye," was re- 
cently added to the mineral collection of the U.S. National Museum. 



558 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

A carved disk of bright red cinnabar in matrix of quartz and agal- 
matolite is a curiosity in the Freer Gallery collection. In a private 
collection in New York an unusual and attractive piece is a small, 
elegantly carved Chinese mask of the translucent green mineral prehn- 
ite. A prelinite pendant is shown in the Kobert Woods Bliss collec- 
tion of pre-Columbia art [3]. Dr. Foshag says, in the catalog of that 
collection, that in Mexico carvings in this stone are rare, but beads of 
prelmite are not uncommon. Bluish and greenish tinted varieties of 
feldspar were used by the Egyptians for jewelry and small sculptures. 
An amulet of green feldspar set in gold which represents the funerary 
god Anubis was found in the mummy wrappings of Tutankhamun [2] . 
The dark purple massive variety of fluorite or fluorspar known as 
"Blue Jolm" is found only in Derbyshire, England. Various orna- 
mental vases of this unique kind of fluorite (calcium fluoride) are 
shown at the Geological Museum in London. There must be many 
more carved mineral oddities like these hidden away in collections all 
over the world. 

Objects carved from lapis lazuli (ML lazulus from Per. lazhuward; 
in modern mineralogy, lazurite) are not uncommon. Lapis lazuli is a 
complex sodium aluminum silicate of the zeolite type, which owes its 
blue color to loosely attached sodium polysulphide. Some notable ex- 
amples of lapis carving are cited by Miss Miner and Miss Edelstein of 
the Walters Art Gallery [18] in their scholarly description of a late 
Roman lapis-lazuli spread eagle, which was found some years ago 
near Naples (pi. 5, fig. 1). It probably once served as the finial for a 
scepter used by a Roman consul as insigne of office. Perhaps one of the 
most distinguished examples of the use of this mineral is the lapis and 
gold "Ram in a Thicket" found by the late Charles Leonard Woolley 
at Ur, and now shown among the many treasure items of the Univer- 
sity Museum in Philadelphia. A small bust of a Median lion strangler 
in carved lapis lazuli (7% inches high) is pictured in color on the 
cover of the February 1961 issue of the Cleveland Museum of Art 
bulletin [19]. It perhaps represents the hero protecting the sacred 
flocks of the goddess of fertility. 

Amber, although organic in origin, is classed as a mineral, and 
Baltic amber is called succinite. It is fossil resin from a species of 
fir tree which became extinct millions of years ago. Amber was one 
of the first substances used by man for carving. In Europe especially 
it has been employed for making ornaments, crucifixes, and small 
votive images, and in England it has been in almost continuous use for 
beadmaking since the Bronze Age. An outstanding collection of ex- 
amples of the judgment and craftsmanship of Chinese amber workers 
of the past two centuries was made by Mary Hooper Packard and is 
shown at the Museum of Fine Arts in Boston [20]. Mrs. Packard's 
chief interest was amber ornaments made in the Far East, and her 



I^HNERALS IN ART AND ARCHEOLOGY — GETTENS 559 

discrimination was exercised in the field of color and quality of the 
substance rather than in variety of use or method of working. 
Pendants and strings of beads form the major part of the collection. 

Although steatite, or soapstone (hydrous magnesium silicate) (pi. 
5, fig. 2), is not regarded as a great art medium, its softness (No. 1 on 
Mohs hardness scale) and ease of carving have caused it to be used 
widely by the Chinese, but, unfortunately, in this century mostly for 
cheap export ware. A soapstone Hellenistic head of fine quality is 
exhibited in the Egyptian galleries of the Brooklyn Museum. In the 
same collection are several other well-modeled Egyptian steatite heads 
with inlaid eyes. 

A hard variety of serpentine (Mohs scale 4r-5), which is related to 
steatite, was sometimes employed by the Chinese as a substitute for 
jade. In fact it is sometimes difficult to distinguish this mineral 
from jade. Serpentine has waxlike luster and color and can be varie- 
gated, showing mottling in lighter or darker tones of green. A hand- 
some mask of serpentine from Mexico is shown in the Robert Woods 
Bliss collection already mentioned [3]. Some of the finest accom- 
plishments of Olmec artists are in this stone. 

The native metals are also minerals, and since they were easy to 
recognize and to work, they were prized by primitive artists and 
craftsmen. Chief among these, of course, is gold, which was widely 
employed by primitive peoples for all kinds of art and ornamental 
purposes. They fashioned objects by hammering gold nuggets 
directly into wire, beads, and thin sheets. It was melted and cast in 
simple molds to form images and ceremonial objects. The Robert 
Woods Bliss collection has many unusual examples of Middle and 
South American gold masks, figurines, and ornaments showing all 
techniques (pi. 6, fig. 1). In Colombia, the aboriginal Americans 
learned to make an alloy of gold and copper called tunibaga^ which 
they cast into images and other objects by the lost- wax process. 
Native silver, and even copper, also served the early peoples of Europe 
and America for making beads, amulets, and hair ornaments. 

Nearly all the precious gem stones, including diamonds, have been 
sculptured or engraved. Sapphire heads of Presidents Washington, 
Jefferson, Lincoln, and Eisenhower are owned by the Kazanjian 
Foundation of Los Angeles. The original stone for the Lincoln head 
(pi. 7, fig. 1), which was shown several years ago at the Smithsonian 
Institution, was obtained after a year of negotiations with a rancher 
in Queensland, Australia, where it had been kept for 15 years. The 
deep blue stone was sculptured by the artist Norman Maness, coun- 
seled by Merrill Gage, professor of sculpture at the University of 
Southern California, and the job required almost 2 years. Because 
of the hardness of the sapphire stone, only diamonds could be used to 
cut it. The weight is 1,318 carats, approximately 8i^ ounces. 



560 ANlSrUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

A set of small bowls of American gem stones was recently installed 
in the Natural History Building of the U.S. National Museum, and 
there are many small pieces of sculpture made from rare minerals in 
that collection including chrysocolla, idocrase, rhodonite, variscite, 
amethyst, and others. A visit to newly installed collections of gems 
and minerals in the Natural History Building is an unforgettable 
experience. 

One thinks of hematite (FcaOs) principally as an iron ore, but this 
hard, dense mineral with metallic luster was a favorite medium for 
cutting cylinder seals in Babylonian and Assyrian times. In the 
Egyptian collection of the Brooklyn Musemn there is a splendid small 
gold inlaid head of a hippopotamus carved in hematite (pi. 6, fig. 2). 

Banded and layered minerals have lent themselves to the making of 
fine cameos. A cameo is a precious or semiprecious stone or shell 
carved in low relief on layers of different colors ; the figure is cut in 
one layer and another layer serves as backgromid. In Koman and 
medieval times in Europe, banded agate and other hard stones were 
used for cameo cutting, especially black and white banded agate 
(onyx), because it permitted a white figure to be projected against 
a black background. Outstanding examples of cameo working are 
illustrated in catalogs of the Bibliotheque National [21] in Paris and 
at the Kunsthistorisches Museum in Vienna [22]. In these catalogs 
the majority of cameos are indicated as being carved from "sardonyx," 
but a number of varieties of quartz and other minerals are also listed. 

In former days when war w^as a sport engaged in by nobles and 
their attendants, personal arms were lavishly decorated and em- 
bellished. Some fine examples of carved and modeled semiprecious 
stones can be seen in the hilts of swords and daggers in the Arms and 
Armor collection of the Metropolitan Museum of Art. A Persian 
dagger of the 19th century has a hilt in the shape of a horse's head 
carved from nephrite, and other daggers have rock-crystal hilts. A 
state scimitar of Murad V, Sultan of Turkey (1876-78), has a jade 
hilt, and the mountings of gold and silver are set with diamonds and 
emeralds ; a tassel of strung pearls adds to the sumptuousness of the 
weapon. 

One of the finest exhibits of sculptured mineral is shown at the 
Virginia Museum of Fine Arts in Richmond. It is a collection of 
Russian jewels and objets d'art from the atelier of Peter Carl Faberge, 
jeweler and goldsmith to the Imperial Russian Court in the early part 
of this century. The objects were collected between 1933 and 1946 by 
Lillian Thomas Pratt, who willed them in 1947 to the Virginia 
Museum. In the handbook of the Lillian Thomas Pratt collection, 
recently published [23], are shown numerous objects: animals, 
Easter eggs, flowers, picture frames, parasol handles, and miscella- 



MINERALS IN ART AND ARCHEOLOGY — GETTENS 561 

neous items in which a variety of semiprecious stones, including agate, 
jade, aventurine, chalcedony, jasper, rhodonite, and others were 
carved into thin and cunningly wrought shapes and then combined 
in patterns and colors to make precious objects to be used by their 
imperial patrons as gifts, room decorations, and religious symbols. 
Among the superb items in the collection is an orange blossom with 
emerald center and buds of chalcedony; the leaves are made of 
Siberian nephrite, and the gold stem is set in a rock-crystal vase cut 
to appear half filled with water. 

"Easter Eggs" were the central theme of an exhibit of master 
works of Carl Faberge shown in the spring of 1961 at the Corcoran 
Gallery of Art in Washington [24]. These eggs, made of enamel and 
semiprecious stones and mounted in gold, were used as Easter gifts 
by members of the Russian Imperial Court. Some of the eggs opened 
up to give the favored one a surprise such as a vase of spring flowers 
or a golden hen. One striking object in the collection is a polar bear 
of frosted rock crystal, standing on a floating cake of clear rock- 
crystal ice. One feels after seeing these collections of bibelots that 
Faberge and his school could really "make magic" with minerals. 

Frequent mention has been made of cylinder seals used by the 
Sumerians as well as the later Babylonians and Assyrians. These 
are small cylinders generally from about 1 to 2 inches in length with 
a lengthwise center hole. Around the cylindrical surface was cut a 
device or inscription in intaglio, which was in effect the signature of 
the owner who rolled it with the aid of a spindle and handle onto a 
damp clay tablet. Some show ritual scenes, others hunting scenes, 
heroic actions, and scenes from farming and agriculture. The seals 
were made from almost any hard material such as stone, shell, faience, 
glass, or ivory. Many Smnerian seals discovered by Sir Leonard 
Woolley at Ur were made from lapis lazuli. Many hundreds, prob- 
ably thousands, of these seals are in existence. There is a notable 
collection of them in the Morgan Library in New York [25] and a 
somewhat smaller one in the Smithsonian Institution. The interesting 
thing is that a collection of cylinder seals presents about as wide a 
variety of minerals as any art form, and many of them are true works 
of art. 

MINERALS IN PAINTING 

Since prehistoric times, minerals ground to a fine powder have been 
used as paint pigments. Only a handful of mineral substances, how- 
ever, have the necessary properties, namely : high color intensity when 
ground to a fine powder ; refractive index sufficiently high to provide 
hiding power and opacity ; and permanence to light and atmosphere. 

The iron- and manganese-bearing earth pigments which contain 



562 ANTSrUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

hematite, limonite, and pyrolusite, mixed in various proportions with 
silicate minerals, have enjoyed an important place on the artist's palette 
going back to the prehistoric cave paintings of France and Spain. 
They are plentiful and cheap. The Egyptians, employing earth pig- 
ments, decorated tombs with incredibly fine and realistic paintings, 
as did the pre-Columbian Indians who painted designs on the walls of 
their kivas in the American Southwest. If one observes carefully the 
flesh tone of figures done in tempera technique by the Italian masters 
of the Middle Ages he will see that they are underpainted with a 
greenish pigment. This is a native earth appropriately called terra 
verde (green earth). It is made up principally of glauconite (also 
called celadonite) , a complex mineral composed principally of potas- 
sium, iron, and aluminum silicates. These earth greens serve well 
in the tempera medium of the Italian masters, but they are too low 
in refractive index to be used in oil. 

In the early times, bright blue pigments were rare and highly 
valued, sending painters' suppliers to the remotest parts of the then 
known world to find sources of lapis lazuli (lazurite) and azurite, the 
only two blue minerals which had the necessary properties to make 
them good paint pigments. Only one important source of lapis 
lazuli was known in antiquity, and that was in a distant and remote 
valley in Asia near the source of the Oxus River in the mountains 
of the Hindu Kush [26]. Here in the northeast province of Afghan- 
istan, called Badakshan, are the lapis lazuli mines that were visited 
by Marco Polo on one of his trips to China, and there is good reason 
to believe that these mines were worked long before the Christian Era. 
The Sumerians in the third millennium B.C. used lapis lazuli to 
ornament gold, and it has already been mentioned that their successors, 
the Babylonians and Assyrians, used it for cylinder seals. It was 
known very early that lapis lazuli, when ground to a powder, yielded 
a deep bright blue pigment suitable for making paint. In the West, 
lapis lazuli apparently first began to be used as a pigment in Byzan- 
tium in the early Middle Ages. At this time, the blue stone was 
carried across Central Asia over the "silk routes" to the Levantine 
port of Acre and thence by sea to Venice. A method was invented 
which permitted the separation of blue particles in impure ground 
lazurite from colorless gangue materials in a way which is similar 
to modern flotation processes for the beneficiation of metallic ores. 
The medieval Italians called the blue pigment "ultramarine," because 
its source was from "beyond the sea." The Renaissance painters em- 
ployed it to paint the Virgin's robe and to represent distant mountain 
landscapes and the vault of heaven. Ultramarine, along with gold, 
was specifically named in contracts given by patrons to painters, and 
early account books speak of its costliness and special worth. About 



MINERALS IN ART AND ARCHEOLOGY — GETTENS 563 

1830, a method for artificial production of ultramarine was invented, 
and following that, natural ultramarine nearly disappeared from the 
artist's palette, although it can still be bought from an artists' color- 
man in London. 

Azurite, the blue basic carbonate of copper, was probably used in 
greater quantities by early European painters than lapis blue. 
Sources of azurite in Europe are little known, but probably much of 
it came from Hungary from copper mines that were long ago com- 
pletely worked out. The early medieval writers called it azzurum 
citramwinuin to distinguish it from azzumtn ultramarinum. In the 
Far East, ground malachite (green) enjoyed the same wide use as 
azurite, but for some obscure reason it was sparsely used in medieval 
European painting. This is strange because malachite and azurite 
generally occur together in secondary copper ore deposits, with mala- 
chite in greater abundance. Both malachite and azurite pigment 
were used plentifully m Chinese paintings on mud walls, on silk, and 
on paper, going back to an early date. In China and Japan, the 
powdered mineral was sieved to produce three tones of blue — dark, 
medium, and light. The dark blue azurite on some Japanese screens 
in the Freer Gallery of Art is so coarse that it feels like sandpaper. 
An especially striking example of the lavish use of these two pig- 
ments is on a pair of Japanese screens in the INIetropolitan Museum 
of Art (pi. 8, fig. 1) ; the subject attributed to Korin (1661-1716) is 
"Iris and Bridge." The blue iris flowers are painted with azurite 
pigment, the leaves are malachite, and both color and texture are 
superb. Occasionally a bright green pigment on ancient paintings 
turns out to be chrysocolla (copper silicate) , not malachite. These two 
minerals are so similar in outward appearance it is not likely that they 
were known apart. 

The only stable bright yellow pigment available to the ancients was 
the jonquil yellow sulphide of arsenic called orpiment. Although 
poisonous and difficult to grind because of its platy nature, orpiment 
was used in Persian and Indian miniature paintings of former cen- 
turies. It is encountered occasionally on early European paintings, 
especially on illuminated writings on parchment. The Egyptians, 
and later the Copts, also used it. A probable early source was 
Macedonia from which supplies are still obtained. Orange-red re- 
algar, the other arsenic sulphide mineral, was also used, but ap- 
parently to a much lesser extent. 

It was inevitable that cinnabar (mercuric sulphide), with its rich 
vermilion red color and high opacity, should find early use as a paint 
pigment. Ciimabar was well known to the Greeks and Romans, who 
got it mainly from the Almaden mines of Spain, which are still the 
world's most important producers of mercury. Pliny called it 
minium, a name which in later centuries became fixed to red lead, an 



564 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

adulterant and poor substitute for cinnabar. Cinnabar has often been 
identified on Pompeian and Roman wall paintings. It was perhaps 
known even earlier in China, where it was used for strewing graves, 
and for filling the incised characters written on animal bones, now 
called "oracle bones," which were used in Shang times for divining 
purposes. Sometime about the beginning of the Christian Era, the 
Chinese discovered a way to make cinnabar artificially, simply by 
recombining mercury and sulphur, the elements of cinnabar, and 
subliming the product to get the red modification of the sulphide. 
This product, now called "vermilion," is purer and brighter than 
natural cinnabar. The Chinese have used it since Han times for 
making the red ink which is so often seen in the red seals stamped 
on Chinese silk and scroll paintings, as well as for general paint 
purposes. 

A number of important inorganic paint pigments that have no 
counterpart in nature are derived from metallic ore and mineral 
sources. In some instances, the natural substance is known, but is too 
rare or too impure for commercial use. It is rather strange that no 
usable chromium pigment is found naturally, although the mineral 
chromite is the starting material for making several chromium pig- 
ments including viridian (hydrous chromic oxide) and chrome yellow 
(lead chromate) which came into use after 1800. No cobalt minerals 
are directly useful as pigments, but the cobalt minerals smaltite, 
erythrite, and asbolite have been used since prehistoric times to color 
glass and ceramic glaze deep blue. The blue color is developed when 
cobalt combines with complex silicates in the glaze at the high tem- 
peratures attained in the pottery kiln. The skilled makers of glazed 
porcelain of the Sung and later dynasties in China brought cobalt 
minerals from as far away as Persia to decorate their beautiful blue- 
and-white porcelain. In the Middle Ages, smalt, a kind of glass 
colored with cobalt, was added to the painter's palette, and in the 19th 
century three more cobalt pigments — cobalt blue (cobalt aluminate), 
cobalt green (cobalt zincate), and cobalt yellow (cobalt potassium 
nitrite) , all derived from cobalt minerals by chemical processes — filled 
it out. 

Natural cadmium sulpliide, greenockite, is a rare mineral of no pig- 
ment importance, but artificial cadmium sulphide made from cadmium- 
bearing zinc ores is a rich and opaque stable yellow and is now a 
mainstay of the artist's palette. 

The importance of the copper minerals malachite and azurite has 
been mentioned. Artificial copper pigments made directly from cop- 
per minerals also had their special uses. In Mesopotamia, as early 
as the second millennium B.C., a way was discovered to make an arti- 
ficial blue frit by calcining a mixture of lime, silica, and a copper 



RrnSTERALS IN ART AND ARCHEOLOGY — GETTENS 565 

mineral, either malachite or cuprite. The product, bright blue crys- 
talline copper calcium silicate, is called "Egyptian blue." It was 
the most widely used blue pigment of Classical times, and it is found 
on ancient paintings from Mesopotamia in the East to Roman sites in 
Scandinavia in the West. It is strange that this product seems to have 
no counterpart in nature, although several copper silicate minerals are 
well known. 

The lead minerals, cerussite (lead carbonate) and hydrocerussite 
(basic lead carbonate), are not uncommon and were known to the 
ancients, but they apparently never served as pigments. White lead, 
the artificial counterpart of liydrocerussite, has been made artificially 
probably since it was known how to win lead metal from galena. Like- 
wise, zinc oxide and titanium oxide, both widely used by artists, are 
made artificially, the former mostly from sphalerite and the latter 
from ilmenite. 

Like the sculptor, the painter has had to go to the earth for the ma- 
terials of his craft. The painter can bring together on a single panel 
or canvas the minerals and mineral-derived products of several coun- 
tries and climes. In order to express fully his ideas it may be neces- 
sary for him to assemble on his palette minerals and chemical com- 
pounds that represent as many as three dozen of the chemical elements. 
In addition to paint pigments, the painter has other mineral needs. 

NONMETALLIC MINERALS IN ART 

There is still another class of minerals which has always played an 
important if less glamorous role in the creation of art. Among paint 
manufacturers they are called "inert pigments," but others call them 
nonmetallic minerals. They are mostly white, or nearly white, bulk 
minerals with low refractive index and include such familiar minerals 
as gypsum and anhydrite, chalk, China clay, and others. 

In Italy, gypsum and anhydrite were abundant, and in addition to 
their use in sculpture they were employed to make gesso (It. = gypsum) 
wliich was used with glue binder to undercoat wood panels, picture 
frames, and furniture to ready them for painting and gilding. Eaw 
gypsum, which is calcium sulphate dihydrate, requires heating to a 
temperature only slightly above the boiling point of water to dehy- 
drate it and permit it to be ground easily to a fine powder. The prod- 
uct, calcium sulphate hemihydrate (plaster of paris), can be used 
directly for casting purposes, and for m.ortars and plaster finishes. 
Some of it is especially refined to make gesso a oro^ or gilding base 
for use on the wood of furniture or picture frames. Microscopic 
examination of the gesso undercoating or ground of most Tuscan 
paintings shows that it rontains mostly fine particles of anhydrite. 
Apparently an impure gypsum-anhydrite mixture was the raw ma- 



566 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

terial used for making gesso in that region. Gypsum has always been 
a key material in the craft of the Italian painters. 

In the northern countries — England, France, and the Low Coun- 
tries — calcite in the form of chalk served the same purpose as gypsmn 
did in Italy. Lump chalk needed only grinding and bolting to produce 
the white inert for the multiple-layer ground coat of artists' panels 
and canvases. When examined at high magnification, a sample of the 
wliite underlayer of a Flemish or Dutch painting often shows presence 
of coccoliths, the calcareous skeletons of ancient minute marine organ- 
isms which formed the layers of chalk in some bygone geological age. 
In this way natural chalk can easily be distinguished from precipi- 
tated chalk. 

The Chinese mural painters employed kaolin for the same purpose. 
The Japanese, however, used mostly a lime wliite from burnt shells for 
both undercoat and white pigment purposes. 

All these white inert pigments have been employed as the substrates 
or carriers of vegetable and animal dyes in the production of organic 
pigments, especially those with high tinctorial power, to give the dye 
pigment body and some opacity. In modern paints, ground barite 
is frequently used as an extender and bulking agent. Diatomaceous 
earth, chalk, mica, talc, and even ground silica have special uses in 
both artists' and commercial paints. 

A wide variety of minerals are used in making and coloring ceram- 
ics, which are among the finest expressions of art ever conceived. All 
the minerals of ceramics, however, are much modified in the ceramic 
furnace, and in the finished product they appear as entirely new inor- 
ganic species. Kaolin, feldspar, and quartz, when strongly heated, 
are changed into compomids which correspond to sillimanite, cristo- 
balite, mullite, and others. These are minerals which in nature are 
produced in contact zones by chemical reactions and physical changes 
like those which take place in the potter's kiln. 

Mosaic is a form of art which employs minerals in a quite different 
way. The design is executed in small cubes or tessarae of mineral, 
stone, or glass and fixed in a setting bed of plaster. Various colored 
marbles and semiprecious stones are used to produce shading and 
brilliance. Small tessarae of malachite and azurite have been seen on 
Kussian and Byzantine icons done in fine mosaic (pi. 7, fig. 2). 

MINERAL ALTERATION PRODUCTS ON ANCIENT METALS 

Collectors of ancient bronzes admire those pieces which have ac- 
quired a fine green or blue "patina." Patina is made of mineral 
alteration products formed by reaction of copper in the aUoy with 
corrosive agencies of air or earth (pi. 8, fig. 2). The most admired 
bronze patinas are the adherent crusts of malachite or azurite inter- 



Smithsonian Report, 1961. — Gettens 



Plate 1 




^ 



O 



Z 



u 






u 



S ^ 







OJ 


1 


3 




J-) 




u 


"oj 




£ 


^ 




— ^ 




<^ 


3 


60 




u- 


"u 


O 


'5b 
















:z5 


<^ 


"^ 


OJ 


D, 




u 




s 


m 


O 




Vi 


>. 


« 




u 




n3 


XI 


« 


D 








T3 


5S 


60 








o 


S 


3 


aj 






+-* 


o 


t^ 


N 






^ 


■^ 
« 


m 






Z 






c 


OJ 




I~< 


U 




u 






oi 




o 


s 


^. 










rt 






^ 


3 


"o 




d 









1) 


w 






'y; 


i~> 








OJ 


O 


3 


o 


<u 


''^ 


5 






2 


3 
60 


jj 


1^ 


1) 


to 


4:3 


'S 


5 






u 
1-. 




X 

3 


^ 




c 


3 


03 








^ 


'S) 




Cu 


c 

3 


_o 


o 


o 


J 


OJ 






^ 




cJ 


"* 


s 


0! 


.s 


H 


< 



Smithsonian Report, 1961. — Gettens 



Plate 2 




1. Anhydrite bowl, Egyptian, XII Dynasty; in the Brool^lyn Aluseum. Diameter 11.5 
cm. (Courtesy Brooklyn Museum.) 




2. Nephrite ceremonial ax, Ching dynasty (Chien-Lung), China. Note the elaborate 
carving and the precise engraving done in one of the "toughest" of stones. Height 
6% 6 in., width 5% in. Freer 19.40. 



I 



Smithsonian Report. 1961. — Gettens 



PLATE 3 




l^ V Os 



rt 


n! 


•^ 


O 


(U 


■s 


> 


c 


S 


t-l 


N 


M 




c 




t; 


C 


u 


4-> 




« 


'J2 

7i 


u 

'5. 


4J 












r~) 


u 


^ 






iX 


a 


<u 


H. 


1» 
> 


c 


>• 


0* 


_S) 


c 


u 


:3 


•■^ 


__ 


3 


^ 


;^ 


>^ 




o 

a 










ZJ 


c^ 


3 


>. 










u. 


^ 


u. 




C 
O 




"? 




c« 




jS 




n 


.3 


O 


r-' 


4-1 

.5? 


u 


< 




c 

.0 


'S 



3 :i: u bo 




•5 ^ -2 -S ^ 

■fe '^ 3 rt '«^ 



^d 



2 -^ 



"2 


o 


3 


-T3 

> 


3 


11 






3 


rt 






•- 


c 
.2 


s 


u 


C 

V 

(J 


a 




*-M 








u 


1 


U 

JJ 

u 

c 

V 


c 




.2 


3 

a 

o 


^ 


JJ 


13 


O 


<u 


a 


■— 


*-' 


c 


W) 


CI. 


CS 




o 


ol 


c 




o 




> 






to 




. '^ 




^ 


^ 


c 


JC* 


^ 


CJ 


s 




3 
c 













.ii 


1^ 


■-r 


- ^ 


"o 


^, 




a. 






u. 








t^ 




C 


u 


^ 




o 








u 














c 


o 
u 




OJ 


"1 



Smithsonian Report, 1961. — Gettens 




:— r ^ r 

^ i: N oj 
§ ^ o u 

^^•^ ^ 

O <u 0) 

S S ii 

C ^ O! .2 

^ o "5 
2 S (u jj 



Plate 4 

■*-^ CJ U. r^ 






< ^ 



cr -c c c/D o Js 



D 0) o ■ 
rt C^ ^ 




Smithsonian Report, 1961. — Gettens 



PLATES 





^< 



■"^ 5 o -c "5 



^ ^ 



rt 


aj 




— 


•;; 


C 


















'a. 


o 


ai 
o 

O 


c 






O 


"3 


OJ 


_0 


"rt 


d 




tJO 


*^ 




o 


O 




c 




'-S 


_53 




ro 


J 


-a 


D 


C 


- 


4-1 


3 
O 
Xi 


)5 


a. 


rt 


ni 


a 


< 










U3 


U. 




>^ 



^ S 8 Z^ 



o 



Smithsonian Report, 1961. — Gettens 






Plate 6 


1> 


-13 1— t ^^ 


nS 




£ 


KX ^ 


u 


—"' 3 


Si 


3 u ^2 

CO J_l 1^ 


■j> 


4^ 3 >> 



S,w 



^ W iu 



V (J 



S '^ 



T 



■M 




a, 


-C 


Q 


-13 


o 


60 


j:: 


t> 


ex 


'S 




.£■ 


K 




























CIS 


c^ 




•+-. 


^ 




X 


O 




"o 






-C 




rt 


lU 


_o 


-a 


c 


C 

O 


IS 




Q 




'^ S.S J 

u .— 13 hj, 

-^ J3 o 1^ 

^ ^ :^ >. 

■~^ . u 

, 6fl tl t^ 

Or-''-'*-* 



u 

■a 




1) 


U 


c 


"^ 


rt 


OS 


^ 


IS 


be 


•— 


s 


c 


-o 


o 



M "* 



00 CJ 



C r- U 



u 



-Q 


-13 


.2 <; 




Lh 








g^ 


C 


1£ 


OJ 


be 


•^ >s 




c 


•J !r! 






D 1) 


C 


15 




"O "i 


o 





u o 



Smithsonian Report, 1961. — Gettens 



PLATE 7 




■n 


o 


j:: 


6 ^ 


nS 


n 


H 


^ ii 


» 


4-* 








c 

C) 


-■ 


^c3 










l> 


f-j] 




St 


td 


n 


. ,--. 


o 


-a 


c 


^su 


^ 


o 


-a 





:: o ^ -2 :2 2 



_C <u J3 • = 



s 


o 


•~ 


<LI 


73 


JS 


_, ^ 


o 


a, -o 


C3 


•= 




O 


Ui 


& 


^ 


n; 




o 




^ 


'" 




aj 


CTS 


^ 


n 














L- 


^ 


a. 


E 


o 













r^ 


^ 


o 


3 


o 


c 




U 
















"ol 


o 


c« 


■53 


ni 


C« 


;Z 


c 


>> 

03 



C 


.^ 


60 


^ 




X 


2 






o 

o 

-T3 


3 




a 


O 


OJ 


rt 





S 



S t^ Ci 




•;_; 






.s 









72 




> 


u 






S) 


«j 


















-n 


&s 


H 


i 


_3 


^^ 





3 




r! 


NN 






-2 





H 


<^> 










(D 


^ 




a; 





_aj 


c 


'"' 


■5 


a; 

5/1 


u 




*-> 

3 


ffi 


c 



"O i-J 



O " o 



o 2 



■t: c 



f-H n! 



.S Z t^ t4 



Smithsonian Report, 1961. — Gettens 



Plate 




1. This Japanese six-fold screen by Kiitsu Susuki (1796-1858) of Morning Glories and Leaves 
is a splendid example of the use of copper mineral pigments. The deep blue of the flowers 
is painted with coarsely ground azurite; the bright green of the leaves with malachite. 
(Courtesy Metropolitan Museum of Art, Seymour Fund, 1954.) 




2. Mineral corrosion products of copper add brilliant colors to this Chinese bronze ceremonia 
vessel of the type hu which dates from the second millennium B.C. Dark green areas 
are malachite; smooth, pale green surface is a thin layer of tin oxide stained with copper; 
blue is azurite and the red is cuprite. Freer 48.1. 



IkHNERALS IN ART AND ARCHEOLOGY — GETTENS 567 

spersed with patches of red cuprous oxide or cuprite. Equally color- 
ful, but less wanted, is the crystalline green atacamite or basic copper 
chloride frequently seen on bronzes which have been in contact with 
the saline soils of desert regions like Egypt and Mesopotamia. Ata- 
camite-encrusted bronzes sometimes cause alarm in museums because 
underlying the atacamite and cuprite and next to the metal core is 
a layer of colorless nantokite or cuprous chloride; nantokite is un- 
stable, and if the object is exposed for extended periods to humid 
atmosphere, it is transformed by hydration and oxidation to the end 
product, atacamite. This behavior is called "bronze disease" and is 
sometimes troublesome for museum curators since bronzes afflicted 
with it have to be kept in a dry atmosphere. Most other mineral 
alteration products on ancient metal objects are ugly and undesirable, 
including limonite and goethite which form on iron, cerargyrite on 
silver, and cerussite on lead. Tin in ancient bronzes is transformed 
by corrosion into a product similar to but not identical with cassiter- 
ite. The smooth gray-green patina on ancient high-tin Chinese 
bronzes is mainly this hydrous form of tin oxide stained green with 
copper impurities. 

Occasionally on ancient bronzes one finds deposits of minerals that 
are quite rare. Some years ago, Prof. Clifford Frondel of the Har- 
vard Mineralogical Museum observed a peculiar blue-green mineral 
alteration product on the inside of an Egyptian bronze figurine of 
a cat-headed deity known as Bast. By X-ray diffraction methods 
he identified the product as botallackite, a basic copper chloride which 
many years ago was first found in the Botallack Mine m Cornwall, 
England. The type specimen in the British Museum was the only 
other specimen of the mineral known to exist. The present writer 
and Professor Frondel found on other Egyptian bronze objects a 
bluish-green double salt of copper and sodium carbonate hitherto 
unobserved. Since it was formed by natural processes, they gave it 
the name "chalconatronite" and published its properties and its chemi- 
cal formula which is CuCOs • NagCOs ' SHaO [27] . Other rare copper 
and lead minerals such as cumengite, Pb4Cu4Cl8(OH)8-H20, and 
phosgenite, PbCL-PbCOs, have been reported as occurring on cor- 
roded bronzes. The mineral alteration products in ancient metal 
objects is an interesting field of study in which there is still much to 
learn. 

We have recorded many examples of the importance of minerals 
to art and have demonstrated that plastic and pictorial art requires 
a great variety of earthy materials as media of expression. Tliis 
leads to the thought that a new kind of art exhibit, "Minerals in Art 
and Art in Minerals," would be a challenging and most interesting 
innovation. 

625325 — 62 38 



568 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 

REFERENCES 

1. Rich, Jack C. 

1947. The materials and methods of sculpture. New Tork. 

2. American Association of Museums. 

1961-63. Tutankhamun treasures. Catalogue of a loan exhibition from 
The Department of Antiquities of the United Arab Republic. 
34 figs. 

3. LoTHROP, S. K. ; Foshag, W. F. ; and Mahler, Jot. 

1957. Catalogue of the Robert Woods Bliss collection of Pre-Columbian 
Art. Text and critical analysis. New York. 

4. Hope, W. H. St. John. 

1904. On the early working of alabaster in England. Archaeol. 
Journ., vol. 61, pp. 221-240. 

5. Victoria and Albert Museum. 

1956. English alabasters. 28 plates. London. 

6. Middlemiss, F. a.; Moss, A. A.; and Claringbull, G. F. 

1953. The stone of the ancient Assyrian monumental carvings. Geo- 

logical Magazine, vol. 90, No. 2, p. 141. 

7. Foshag, William F. 

1957. Mineralogical studies on Guatemalan jade. Smithsonian Misc. 

Coll., VOL 135, No. 5. 

8. Hansford, Howard. 

1950. Chinese jade carving. London. 

9. Kretchetova, M. N. 

1960. Carved stone of China at the Hermitage Museum. Leningrad. 

10. LiON-GoLDSCHMiDT, DAISY, and Moreau-Gobard, Jean-Claude. 

1960. Chinese art : Bronze — jade — sculpture — ceramics. New York. 

11. Vetlesen, Maude M. 

193&-40. Chinese jade carvings of the XVth to the XlXth century In 
the collection of Mrs. George Vetlesen. An illustrated descrip- 
tive record compiled by Stanley Charles Nott. 3 vols. London. 
(Produced for private circulation only.) 

12. Gorer, Edgar, and Blacker, J. F. 

1911. Chinese porcelain and hard stones. 2 vols., 254 color Ills, of Chi- 
nese ceramic and glyptic art. London. 

13. Lamm, Carl Jahon. 

1920. Mittelalterliche GlSser und Steinschnlttarbeiten aus dem Nahen 
Osten. 2 vols. Berlin. 

14. Lucas, A. 

1948. Ancient Egyptian materials and industries. London. 

15. Ross, Marvin Chauncey. 

1943. The Reubens vase : its history and date. Journ. Walters Art Gal- 
lery, vol. 6, pp. 9-39. 

16. Judd, Neil M. 

1954. The material culture of Pueblo Bonito. Smithsonian Misc. Coll., 

vol.124. (See pi. 19.) 

17. Laufer, Berthold. 

1913. Notes on turquoise in the East. Field Museum of Natural History, 
Publ. 169, Anthrop. Ser., vol. 13, No. 1. 

18. Miner, Dorothy, and Edelstein, Emma J. 

1944-45. A carving in lapis lazuli. Journ. Walters Art Gallery, vols. 
7-8, pp. 83-103. 



MINERALS IN ART AND ARCHEOLOGY — GETTENS 569 

19. Shepheed, Doeothy G. 

1961. Aji Achaemenid sculpture in lapis lazuli. Cleveland Museum of 
Art Bull. 48, No. 2, pp. 1&-25. 

20. Keeshaw, Fbancis Stewaet. 

1925. The Mary Hooper Packard collection of amber. Museum of Fine 
Arts, Boston, Bull. 23, pp. 36-37. 

21. Babelon, Eenest. 

1897. Catalogue des camels antiques et modernes de la Bibliothfeque 
Nationale. Paris. 

22. EiCHLEE, Fritz, and Kris, Ernst. 

1927. Die Kameen im Kunsthistorisches Museum, Wien. 

23. Lesley, Parker. 

1960. Handbook of the Lillian Thomas Pratt collection of Russian Im- 

perial jewels. Virginia Museum of Fine Ajts, Richmond. 

24. Corcoran Gallery of Art. 

1961. Easter eggs and other precious objects by Carl Fabergfi. (All 

ills, in color. ) Washington, D.C. 

25. Poeada, Edith. 

1948. Corpus of ancient Near Eastern seals In North American collec- 
tions of the Pierpont Morgan Library. Bollingen Series XIV. 
Washington, D.C. 

26. Gettens, Rutherford J, 

1950. Lapis lazuli and ultramarine in ancient times. Alumni (Brus- 
sels), vol. 19, pp. 342-357. 

27. Gettens, Rutherford J., and Feondel, Clifford. 

1955-56. Chalconatronite : an alteration product on some ancient Egyi>- 
tian bronzes. Studies in Conservation, vol. 2, pp. 64-75. 



INDEX 



Abbot, C. G., X 

Accessions, 20, 79, 110, 113, 114, 124, 
126, 128, 133, 135, 193, 205 

Bureau of American Ethnology, 79 
Freer Gallery of Art, 110, 113, 114 
Library, 205 

National Air Museum, 124, 126, 128 
National Gallery of Art, 193 
National Museum, 20 
National Zoological Park, 133, 135 
Adams, Cynthia L., vii 
Adams, G. H., 174, 175 
Aerobiology, Outdoor (P. H. Gregory), 

445 
Aero engines. Three famous early 

(Robert B. Meyer, Jr.), 357 
Allen, Brooke, Maj. Gen., USAF, viii 
Anderson, Clinton P., regent of the In- 
stitution, V, 17, 40, 46 
Andrews, A. J., vi 
Andronicos, Basil, 45 
Anglim, John E., vi, 44 
Anthropology, Evolution, genetics, and 

(A. E. Mourant), 501 
Appropriations, 18, 52, 94, 163, 193, 235 
Astrophysical Observatory, 94 
National Gallery of Art, 193 
National Zoological Park, 18, 163, 

235 
River Basin Surveys, 18, 52, 235 
Art and archeology. Minerals in (Ruther- 
ford J. Gettens), 551 
Astrophysical Observatory, vii, viii, 81 
Astrophysical Research, Division 

of, vii, 81 
Buildings and equipment, 94 
Funds available, 94 
Publications, 89, 216 
Radiation and Organisms, Division 

of, viii, 94 
Report, 81 
Staff, vii, viii, 93 

Table Mountain, Calif., field sta- 
tion, viii, 81 



Australopithicines and the origin of man 
(J. T. Robinson), 479 



B 



Baker, Thomas G., 34, 42, 44 

Bakos, Gustav A., vii, 85, 87 

Bales, Richard, 203, 204 

Barker, Bert J., 133, 174 

Bass, William M., 49 

Bassler, R. S., ix 

Battison, E. A., vii 

Bayer, Frederick M., vi, 33, 42 

Beaubien, Paul L., 48 

Becklund, W. W., 170 

Beggs, Thomas M., Director, National 

Collection of Fine Arts, viii, 99, 107, 

109 
Belin, Ferdinand Lammot, viii, 192 
Benjamin, C. R., ix 
Bennett, Charles F., Jr., 181 
Benson, William E. (Drilling beneath 

the deep sea), 397 
Beville, Henry B., 204 
Biebighauser, Ernest E., 216 
Bishop, P. W., vii 
Blake, Doris H., ix 
Blake, J. B., vii 
Blaker, Mrs. Margaret C, 74 
Blanchard, Ruth E., librarian, v, 208 
Blest, Andrew, 181 
Bliss, Robert Woods, 99 
Boardman, Richard S., vi, 35 
Bory, Bela S., vii, 44 
Bouton, Margaret, 201 
Bow, Frank T., regent of the Institution, 

V, 17, 40 
Bowman, T. E., vi 
Boyd, Sylvia, 82 
Boyle, W. E., vi 
Bradley, James C, Assistant Secretary 

of the Institution, v, 99, 100 
Bredin, J. Bruce, ix 
Briggs, Robert E., vii, 83 
Brink, C. E., 174 

671 



572 



ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 



Brooks, Overton, regent of the Insti- 
tution, V, 17 
Brown, John Nicholas, regent of the 

Institution, v, 17 
Brown, R. W., ix 
Brown, W. L., x 

Bureau of American Ethnology, vii, 48, 
214 

Archives, 74 

Collections, 79 

Editorial work and publications, 
77, 214 

Exploration and fieldwork, 48 

Illustrations, 77 

Library, 77 

Report, 48 

River Basin Surveys, vii, 52 

Staff, vii 

Systematic researches, 48 
Burroughs, Carroll A., 48 
Byrd, Mrs. Mabel A., vi 

C 

Cahill, James F., viii, 120, 121, 122 
Cairns, Huntington, ix, 192, 204 
Caldwell, Warren W., 62, 63, 66, 68, 

70, 72 
Campbell, J. M., ix 
Campbell, William P., 199 
Canal Zone Biological Area, viii, 178 
Buildings, equipment, and im- 
provements, 181 
Finances, 181 

Plans and requirements, 182 
Rainfall, 179 
Report, 178 
Scientists, students, and observers, 

178 
Visitors, 179 
Cannon, Clarence, regent of the Insti- 
tution, V, 17, 236 
Canter, A. L., 174, 175 
Carlson, Ruth E., 202 
Carmichael, Leonard, Secretary of the 
Institution, v, viii, 99, 100, 165, 192 
Carriker, M. A., ix 
Carter, G. S. (Tropical climates and 

biology), 429 
Cartwright, O. L., vi 
Casey, Louis S., viii, 125 
Chace, Fenner A., Jr., vi 
Chafe, Wallace L., vii, 51 
Chancellor of the Institution (Earl 
Warren, Chief Justice of the United 
States), V, 17, 46 



Chao, Dr., 35 

Chapelle, Howard I., vii, 17 

Chapman, Carl H., 67 

Chase, Agnes, ix 

Chemistry, Organic: A view and a 
prospect (Sir Alexander Todd), 373 

Chief Justice of the United States (Earl 
Warren, Chancellor of the Institu- 
tion), v, 17, 46, 192 

Chitwood, M. B., 170 

Chromosomes and the theory of heredity 
(C. D. Darlington), 417 

Cifelli, Richard, vi, 36 

Clain-Stefanelli, Mrs. Elvira, vii, 43 

Clain-Stefanelli, Vladimir, vii 

Clark, Ailsa M., ix 

Clarke, J. F. Gates, vi 

Clarke, Gilmore D., 99, 100 

Clarke, R. S., Jr., vi 

Climates, Tropical, and biology (G. S. 
Carter), 429 

Cloud, P. E., ix 

Cochran, Doris M., vi 

Cohen, Dr., 35 

Collins, Alan C, 31 

Collins, H. R., vii 

Collins, Henry B., Jr., vii, 49, 50 

Collins, J. A., Chief, International Ex- 
change Service, viii, 191 

Colombo, Giuseppe, vii, 88, 93 

Compton, Arthur H., regent of thelnsti- 
tution, V, 17 

Conant, G. H., Jr., vii 

Conger, P. S., vi 

Cooke, C. W., ix 

Cooke, H. Lester, 199, 200 

Cooper, G. A., vi, 34 

Cooper, J, L, B. (The main lines of 
mathematics), 323 

Corbett, John M., 48 

Cott, Perry B., ix, 192, 198, 199 

Courtais, Henri G., 107 

Cowan, Richard S., vi, 34 

Cox, John P., 82 

Crabill, R. E., Jr., vi 

Crane, H. R., 68 

Crawford, Frederick C, x 

Cross, Harold F., 107 

Cutress, Charles E., Jr., vi, 33, 42 

D 

Dale, Chester, ix, 192, 193 
Darhngton, C. D. (Chromosomes and 

the theory of heredity), 417 
Davis, Malcolm, 164 



I 



INDEX 



573 



Davis, Robert J., vii, 88, 93 

Day, J. Edward, Postmaster General, 
member of the Institution, v 

Dean, Charles, 164 

DeFelice, James, 83 

Deignan, Herbert G., vi 

DePrato, Mario, 166 

Desautels, Paul E., vi, 35 

DevUn, M. J., Jr., 174 

Dickerson, Julius J., 45 

Dillon, Douglas, Secretary of the Treas- 
ury, member of the Institution, v, 
viii, 192 

DiStefano, Anthony, 33, 42 

Docent service, 45 

Donors. See under Accessions in bureau 
reports; also Gifts and grants (mon- 
etary) 

Doolittle, James H., Lt. Gen., USAF, 
viii (Early experiments in instrument 
flying), 337 

Dorman, Charles G., 47 

Douglass, Raymond, 36 

Drake, C. J., ix 

Drouin, Mark, 134 

Drummond, Kenneth H., 93 

Dubik, Michael, 174 

Dunkle, David H., 47 

Dyer, E. R., Jr., 88 



E 



Ebinger, John, 181 

Edelen, Mrs. Eloise B., 77, 214 

Edwards, J. L., viii 

Elder, R. A., Jr., vi 

Elstad, V. B., viii, 98 

Esslinger, W. H., 32 

Establishment, The, 17 

Ethnobotany, Heyerdahl's Kon-Tiki 

theory and its relation to (F. P. 

Jonker), 535 
Ettinghausen, Richard, viii, 119, 120, 

121, 122 
Evans, CliflFord, Jr., vi, 30 
Evans, Grose, 201, 202 
Evolution, genetics, and anthropology 

(A. E. Mourant), 501 
Ewers, John C, ^ i, 38, 39, 44 
Executive Committee of the Board of 

Regents, v, 221, 236 
Members, v, 236 
Report, 221 

Appropriations, 235 
Audit, 235 



Executive Committee of the Board of 
Regents — Continued 
Report — Continued 

Classification of investments, 

225 
Freer Gallery of Art fund, 224 
Gifts and grants, 231 
Principal of endowment funds 

231 
Private funds, balance sheet, 

226 
Receipts and disbursements, 

228 
Restricted fund balance, 230 
Smithsonian Institution, Pa- 
rent fund, 222 

Consolidated fund, 222 
Summary of endowments, 225 
Exhibitions, 39, 103, 108, 198 

National Collection of Fine Arts, 

108 
National Gallery of Art, 198 
National Museum, 39 
Smithsonian Traveling Exhibition 
Service, 103 
Exploration and fieldwork, 30, 48, 52, 56 
Bureau of American Ethnology, 48 
National Museum, 30 
River Basin Surveys, 52, 56 



Fauntleroy, Travis, E., Jr., 165 

Feidler, Ernest R., ix, 192 

Feinstein, Bernard R., 32 

Ferguson, Eugene S., 47 

Field, WiUiam D., vi, 32 

Finley, David E., 99 

Finances, 18, 94, 181, 221 

Astrophysical Observatory, 94 
Canal Zone Biological Area, 181 
Executive Committee Report, 221 
See also Appropriations 

Fireman, E. L., vii, 83, 84, 92, 93 

Fleming, Robert V., regent of the In- 
stitution, V, 17, 236 

Flint, Ohver S., Jr., vi, 33, 47 

Flouton, Luther H., 45 

Forbis, Richard G., 56 

Ford, Bertelle, 164 

Ford, Leonard, 164 

Franciscono, Marcel, 201 

FrankUn, Fred A., vii, 83 

Freeman, Orville L., Secretary of Agri- 
culture, member of the Institution, v 



574 



ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 



Freer Gallery of Art, viii, 110, 216, 224 

Attendance, 117 

Auditorium, 118 

Building and grounds, 117 

Changes in exhibitions, 113 

Collections, 110, 113, 114 

Funds, 224 

Library, 113 

Photographic laboratory, 117 

Publications, 115, 216 

Report, 110 

StaEF, viii, 119 
Friedman, Herbert (X-rays from the 

sun), 251 
Friedmann, Herbert, ix, 44, 47 
Froiland, Alfred G., viii, 83 
Fulbright, J. William, regent of the 
Institution, v, 17 

G 

Gallagher, Cornelius E., 134 

Garber, Paul E., viii, 125 

Gardner, P. V., vii 

Garvan, Anthony N. B., 47 

Gazin, C. Lewis, \i, 30, 37, 38 

Gettens, Rutherford J., 120, 121, 122 

(Minerals in art and archeology), 551 
Gibson, Gordon D., vi, 31 
Gifts. See Accessions; also Gifts and 

grants (monetary) 
Gifts and grants (monetary), 182, 194, 

231 

Canal Zone Biological Area, 182 
National Gallery of Art, 194 
Smithsonian Institution, 231 
{See under Accessions for other 
gifts and donors) 
Gingerich, Owen, vii, 82 
Goins, C. R., Jr., vii 
Goldberg, Arthur J., Secretary of Labor, 

member of the Institution, v 
Goldberg, Leo, vii, 88, 93 
Golden, Bernard, 70 
Goodel, Andy, 171 
Gould, Capt. Donald, 171 
Grabar, Oleg, x 
Graf, John E., ix 
Graham, D. C, ix 
Grange, Roger T., 68 
Greenewalt, Crawford H., regent of the 

Institution, v, 17 
Greenwood, Mrs. Arthur M., x 
Greeson, O. H., chief, photographic 

service division, v 



Gregory, P. H. (Outdoor aerobiology), 

445 
Griffith, F. 0., vii 
Grimmer, J. Lear, viii, 134, 165 
Grossi, Mario D., vii, 87 
Grubbs, C. S., 174 
Guest, Grace Dunham, x 

H 

Hagihara, Yusuke, 93 

Hale, Mason E., Jr., vi 

Hail, Charles, 165 

Hatnarneh, S. K., vii 

Hambleton, James I. (The honey bee), 
465 

Hancock, Walker, 99 

Handley, Charles 0., Jr., vi, 17, 31 

Harden, Lou Gushing, 115 

Harrington, John P., x, 79 

Harrison, J. H., viii 

Hartle, Donald D., 69 

Haskins, Caryl P., regent of the Insti- 
tution, V, 17, 236 

Hathawaj', Anthony, vii 

Hauschildt, Kurt, 38 

Hayes, Bartlett H., 99 

Hayes, E. Nelson (The Smithsonian's 
satellite-tracking program: Its his- 
tory and organization), 275 

Hays, Raymond E., 42 

Henderson, Edward P., vi, 35 

Herber, E. C, x 

Heredity, Chromosomes and the theory 
of (C. D. Darlington), 417 

Hersey, David, 219 

Heyerdahl's Kon-Tiki theory and its 
relation to ethnobotany (F. P. 
Jonker), 535 

Hilger, Sister M. Inez, x, 79 

Hinrichs, Lt. Gen. J. H., 125 

Hobbs, H. H., Jr., ix 

Hodge, Paul W., vii, 81, 84 

Hodges, Luther H., Secretary of Com- 
merce, member of the Institution, v 

Ilogenson, Mrs. Aleita A., 114 

Holden, Mrs. W. M., 174 

Holder, Preston, 67 

Honey bee. The (James I, Hambleton), 
465 

Hopkins, P. S., Director, National Air 
Museum, viii, 125, 132 

Hotton, Nicholas, III, vi, 38 

Houston, C. O., Jr., vii 

Howell, A. B., ix 



INDEX 



575 



Howell, E. M., vii 
Hower, Rolland O., vii, 44 
Howland, Richard H., vii, 47 
Huang, Su-Shu (Some astronomical 

aspects of life in the universe), 239 
Hull, F. M., ix 
Hume, I. N., x 
Hunsaker, Jerome C, regent of the 

Institution, v, 17 
Hurt, Wesley R., Jr., 67, 68 
Huscher, Harold A., 56 
Hynek, J. Allen, 93 



Ide, John J., x 

Instrument flying. Early experiments 
in (James H. Doolittle), 337 

International Exchange Service, viii, 183 
Foreign depositories of govern- 
mental documents, 184 
Foreign exchange service, 190 
Interparliamentary exchange of the 

official journal, 187 
Packages forwarded, 184 
Publications received, 183, 191 
Report, 183 

Ireland, R. R., Jr., vi 

Irving, Laurence, ix 

Izsak, Imre G., vii, 86, 92, 93 



Jacchia, Luigi G., vii, 83, 88, 92, 93 

James, Capt., 174 

Jellison, W. L., ix 

Johnson, David H., vi 

Johnson, Lyndon B., Vice President of 

the United States, member of the 

Institution, v, 17 
Johnson, Richard S., 44 
Jonker, F. P. (Heyerdahl's Kon-Tiki 

theory and its relation to ethno- 

botany), 535 
Judd, N. M., ix 
Junior League of Washington, 45 



Kadlubowski, A. S., 174 
Kainen, Jacob, vii 
Karlson, Alfred G., 168, 170 
Kauffman, Earle G., vi, 35, 37 
Kellogg, A. Remington, Assistant Secre- 
tary of the Institution, v, vi, 47, 134 
Kendall, E. C., vii 
Kendeigh, Charles, 181 



Kennedy, J. A., director of personnel, v 
Kennedy, John F., President of the 

United States, Presiding Officer ex 

officio, v 
Kennedy, Robert F., Attorney General, 

member of the Institution, v 
Kier, Porter M., vi, 35, 36 
Killip, E. P., ix 
King, William J., 47 
Kirk, George, 171 
Kivett, Marvin F., 69 
Klapthor, Mrs. Margaret Brown, vii 
Klein, W. H., viii, 94, 97, 98 
Klinger, Robert, 44 
Knez, Eugene I., vi, 31 
Kozai, Yoshihide, 87, 93 
Kress, Rush H., ix, 192 
Krieger, H. W., ix 
Kringold, Arlene P., vii 
Krook, Max, vii, 82 
Kumar, Shiv, 82 
Kussrow, Mrs. Fruza C., 164 

L 

Lachner, E. A., vi 

Lassovszky, Karoly, vii, 86 

Lato, Stephen, 171 

Latterell, R. L., viii, 98 

Lautman, Don A., vii, 87, 93 

Lawless, Benjamin W., Jr., vii, 44 

Lea, John S., 212 

Lectures, 118, 201, 218 

Freer Gallery of Art, 118 
National Gallery of Art, 201 

Ledoux, P., 93 

Lee, George L., Sr., 125 

Leonard, E. C., vi 

Library, 77, 113, 202, 205 

Bureau of American Ethnology, 77 
Freer Gallery of Art, 113 
National Gallery of Art, 202 
Report, 205 

Liddel, Urncr, 219 

Life in the universe, Some astronomical 
aspects of (Su-Shu Huang), 239 

Liller, William, 88 

Lindsay, G. Carroll, curator, Smith- 
sonian Museum Service, v, 45, 219 

Loehr, Max, x 

Loening, Grover, viii 

Loercher, L., viii, 97 

Lucas, F. R., 169 

Lundeberg, P. K., vii 

Lusk, Carroll, 45 

Lyon, Rowland, viii 



576 



ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 



M 

MacKay, F. W., x 

MacManus, Ruth B., 210 

Madison, Lee G., 70 

Male, W. M., viii 

Mann, William M., 163, 165 

Manship, Paul, 99 

Margulies, M., viii, 98 

Mathematics, The main lines of (J. L. B. 

Cooper), 323 
McCall, F. J., vii 
McCarthy, Charles J., 125 
McClure, F. A., ix 
McCoy, Harold, 174 
McCrosky, Richard E., vii, 82, 84, 93 
McElheny, John D., 182 
Mcintosh, Allen, ix 
McNamara, Robert S., Secretary of 

Defense, member of the Institution, v 
McNeil, Ada, 164 
Meggers, Betty J., ix, 30 
Mellon, Paul, ix, 192, 193 
Members of the Institution, v 
Metcalf, George S., 30 
Meyer, Robert B., Jr., viii 

(Three famous early aero engines), 
357 
Michaels, Andrew F., Jr., buildings 

manager, v 
Michener, Roland, 134 
Miller, Carl F., 55, 56 
Mindlin, Albert, 172 
Minerals in art and archeology (Ruther- 
ford J. Gettens), 551 
Minkin, Mrs. Constance, 45 
Modena, William G., 164 
Mongan, Elizabeth, 199 
Moore, J. P., ix 
Moran, William E., 38 
Morrison, Joseph P. E., vi, 34, 42 
Morrison, Russell, 164 
Morrissey, John H., 44 
Morton, C. V., vi 
Moths, The detection and evasion of 

bats by (Kenneth D. Roeder and 

Asher E. Treat), 455 
Mourant, A. E. (Evolution, genetics, 

and anthropology), 501 
Moynihan, M. H., Resident Naturalist, 

Canal Zone Biological Area, viii, 181, 

182 
Muesebeck, C. F. W., ix 
Multhauf, R. P., vii 
Murray, Mrs. Anne W., vii 



Museum of History and Technology, 

vi, vii 
Museum of Natural History, vi 

N 

National Air Museum, viii, 124 

Accessions, 124, 126, 128 

Advisory Board, viii, 124 

Assistance to Government Depart- 
ments, 125 

Improvements in exhibits, 124 

Public information service, 126 

Reference material and acknowl- 
edgments, 126 

Repairs, preservation, and restora- 
tion, 125 

Report, 124 

Special events, 125 

Staff, viii 
National Collection of Fine Arts, viii, 99, 216 

Art works lent and returned, 100 

Information service and staff activi- 
ties, 107 

Publications, 107, 216 

Ranger fund. The Henry Ward, 102 

Report, 99 

Smithsonian Art Commission, 99 

Smithsonian lending collection, 101 

Smithsonian Traveling Exhibition 
Service, viii, 103 

Special exhibitions, 108 
National Gallery of Art, viii, ix, 192 

Accessions, 193 

Appropriations, 193 

Attendance, 193 

Audit of private funds, 204 

Buildings and grounds. Mainte- 
nance of, 203 

Curatorial activities, 198 

Educational program, 200 

Exhibitions, 198 

Extension service, 201 

Index of American Design, 202 

Lectour, 203 

Library, 202 

Officials, ix, 192 

Organization, 192 

Personnel, 193 

Publications, 199 

Report, 192 

Restoration, 99 

Trustees, viii, 192 

Works of art, Exchange of, 195 
lent, 196 



INDEX 



577 



National Gallery of Art — Continued 

Works of art — Continued 
on loan, 195 
on loan returned, 195 
National Museum, vi, 20, 212 

Buildings and equipment, 46 

Collections, 20 

Docent service, 45 

Exhibitions, 39 

Exploration and fieldwork, 30 

Organization and staff, changes in, 
46 

Publications, 212 

Report, 20 

Staff, vi 
National Zoological Park, viii, 18, 133, 
163, 235 

Animals in the collection on June 
30, 1961 

Appropriation, 18, 163, 235 

Births and hatchings, 137 

Buildings and grounds, 175 

Cooperation, 171 

Exchanges, 135 

Finances, 163 

Friends of the National Zoo, 164 

Gifts, 133 

Information and education, 165 

Personnel, 163 

Plans for the future, 177 

Police department, 173 

Purchases, 135 

Report, 133 

Safety subcommittee, 174 

Staff, viii 

Status of the collection, 140 

Veterinarian, Report of the, 166 

Visitors, 172 
Neuman, Robert W., 63, 65, 66, 71 
Newland, Kenneth E., viii, 125 
Newman, Marshall T., vi 
Nigman, 93 
Nora, Charles J., 45 

O 

Oehser, Paul H., chief, editorial and 

publications division, v, 217 
Officials of the Institution, v 
Osborne, Douglas, 71 
Ostroff, Eugene N., vii, 47 
Owens, Mrs. Edna, 45 



Page, Hilliard W., 126 
Pancoast, John, 199 



Parker, Kittie F., ix 

Pearce, F. L., vi 

Pearce, J. N., vii 

Pearson, Mrs. Louise M., administrative 

assistant to the Secretary, v 
Peat, Marwick, Mitchel and Co., 236 
Peery, Thomas, 170 
Penn, Lt. Col. Perry, 171 
Perry, K. M., vii 
Perrygo, W, M., vii 
Peterson, Mendel L., vii, 39 
Phillips, Duncan, 192 
Pleissner, Ogden M., 99 
Pomeroy, Robert L., 31 
Pope, Mrs. Annemarie H., viii 
Pope, John A., viii, 121, 122 
President of the United States (John F. 
Kennedy, Presiding Officer, ex of- 
ficio), v 
Price, Derek J., x 
Price, L., viii, 97, 98 
Price Waterhouse and Co., 204 
Publications, 77, 89, 107, 115, 199, 209, 216 
American Historical Association 
Astrophysical Observatory, 89, 216 
Bureau of American Ethnology, 

77, 214 
Daughters of the American Revo- 
lution, 217 
Distribution, 210 
Freer Gallery of Art, 115, 216 
National Collection of Fine Arts, 

107, 216 
National Gallery of Art, 199 
National Museum, 212 
Radiation and Organisms, Division 

of, 97 
Report, 209 

Smithsonian Annual Reports, 211 
Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collec- 
tions, 210 
Smithsonian special publications, 
212 
Pulaski, John, 171 

R 

Radiation and Organisms, Division of, 
viii, 94 

PubUcations, 97 
Report, 94 
Staff, viii 
RatUff, Lester, 174 

Reed, Theodore H., Director, National 
Zoological Park, viii, 133, 135, 165, 
166, 171, 177 



578 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1961 



Regents, Board of, v, 17, 221 

Annual meeting, 17 
Executive committee, v, 221, 236 
Members, v, 17 
Rehder, Harald A., vi, 33 
Research associates, collaborators, and 

fellows, ix 
Reynolds, Orr E., 219 
Rhoades, Katherine N., x 
Rhymer, D. I., 31 

Ribicoflf, Abraham A., Secretary of 
Health, Education, and Welfare, 
member of the Institution, v 
Riesenberg, Saul H., vi 
Riggs, F. Behn, Jr., 84, 93 
Riggs, R. B., Jr., vii 
Riser, Wayne, 107 

River Basin Surveys, vii, 18, 52, 235 
Appropriation, 18, 52, 235 
Cooperating Institutions, 73 
Fieldwork, 62, 56 
Report, 52 
Staff, vii 

Washington office, 55 
Roberts, Frank H. H., Jr., Director, 
Bureau of American Ethnology, vii, 
48, 49, 55, 80 
Roberts, Henry B., 34, 37 
Robinson, J. T. (Australopithecines and 

the origin of man), 479 
Roeder, Kenneth D. (The detection and 

evasion of bats by moths), 455 
Rogers, Grace L., vii 
Rolff, J. viii, 93 
Rosenthal, Samuel, 172 
Roth, Rodris C, vii 
Roy, Edgar L., treasurer, v 
Rudd, Velva E., vi, 34 
Runnestrand, Paul, 182 
Rusk, Dean, Secretary of State, member 

of the Institution, v, viii 
Russell, Adm. James S., 125 
Rustgi, Om P., vii, 93 

S 

Saltonstall, Leverett, regent of the 
Institution, v 

Satellite-tracking program, The Smith- 
sonian's: Its history and organization 
(E. Nelson Hayes), 275 

Sawyer, Charles H., 99 

Schaller, W. T., ix 

Scheele, C. H,, vii 

Schmitt, Waldo L., ix 

Schriever, Gen. Bernard A., 125 



Schultz, L. P., vi 

Schwartz, Benjamin, ix 

Science Information Exchange, 218 

Sea, Drilling beneath the deep (.William 

E. Benson), 397 
Sea, The new age of the (Philip B. 

Yeager), 381 
Seamans, Robert C, Jr. (The challenge 

of space exploration), 263 
Secretary of the Institution (Leonard 
Carmichael), v, viii, 99, 100, 165, 192 
Setzer, Henry W., vi, 31 
Setzler, Frank M., ix, 47 
Shanidar II, The skull of (T. D. 

Stewart), 521 
Shepard, Katherine, 199, 200 
Shortridge, John D., 47 
Shropshire, W., viii, 98 
Sisler, E. C, 97, 98 
Skalafuris, Angelo J., vii, 82 
Slowey, J., vii 
Smith, A. C, Director, Museum of 

Natural History, vi, 44 
Smith, G. Hubert, 64, 65, 70, 72 
Smithsonian Art Commission, 99 
Annual meeting, 99 
Members, 99 
Smithsonian Museum Service, 45, 219 
Smithsonian Traveling Exhibition Serv- 
ice, viii, 103 
Snodgrass, R. E., ix 
Snyder, T. E., ix 
Soderstrom, Thomas R., vi, 47 
Solecki, Ralph S., 30 
Solecki, Mrs. Ralph S., 30 
Soper, C. C, x, 182 
Southworth, Richard B., vii, 93 
Space exploration, The challenge of 

(Robert C. Seamans, Jr.), 263 
Staff, vi, vii, viii, 46, 92 
Stephenson, Robert L., vii, 61, 66, 69, 70 
Stern, Harold P., viii, 17, 120, 121, 122, 

123 
Stern, W. L., vi 
Stevenson, J. A., ix 
Stewart, T. Dale, vi, 17, 30, 47 

(The skull of Shanidar II), 521 
Stirling, M. W., x, 79 
Stirling, Mrs. Marion, 79 
Stites, Raymond S., 200, 201 
Straw, Reily, 164, 174 
Strom, Stephen E., 81, 87 
Stroop, P. D., Rear Adm., USN, viii 
Sturtevant, WiUiam C, vii, 60, 51 
Sugiura, T., 113, 122 



INDEX 



579 



Sullivan, Francis, 199 
Swallen, Jason R., vi 
Swartzback, Donald, 164 
Swindell, B. C, 171 
Switzer, George S., vi, 35 



Table Mountain, Calif., field station, 

viii, 81 
Talbert, D. G., viii 
Taylor, Frank A., Director, Museum of 

History and Technology, vi 
Taylor, Theodore W., assistant to the 

Secretary, v, 99 
Taylor, W. R., vi 
Taylor, W. W., Jr., ix 
Ternbach, Joseph, 107 
Teske, R. G., 82 
Tilles, David, vii, 83, 85, 93 
Tillinghast, Carlton W., Jr., vii, 94 
Tobin, W. J., ix 
Todd, Sir Alexander (Organic chemistry: 

A view and a prospect), 373 
Townes, H. K., ix 
Treat, Asher E. (The detection and 

evasion of bats by moths), 455 
Tretick, Julius, 44 
Trilobites, A na+ural history of (H. B. 

Wliittington), 405 
Turner, G. T. vii 

U 

Udall, Stewart L., Secretary of the In- 
terior, member of the Institution, v 
Usilton, Mrs. Bertha M., 114 



Van Beek, G. W., vi 

Veis, George, viii, 86, 92, 93 

Visitors, 18, 117, 172, 179, 193 

Canal Zone Biological Area, 179 
Freer Gallery of Art, 117 
National Gallery of Art, 193 
National Zoological Park, 172 

Vogel, Robert M., vii, 43 

Voris, Anna M., 200 

Vorous, Holmes M., 166 

W 

Wagner, Albert C, 107 
Walker, E. P., x 
Walker, John, ix, 192, 193 
Waring, A. J., Jr., x, 79 



Warren, Earl, Chief Justice of the 
United States, Chancellor of the 
Institution, v, viii, 17, 46, 192 

Washburn, W. E., vii 

Walkins, C. Malcolm, vii 

Watkins, W. N., ix 

Watson, James, 42 

Weakly, Harry E., 68, 70 

Weakly, Ward, 68 

Wedel, Waldo R., vi, 30 

Weiner, George, 45 

Weiss, Helena M., vi 

Welsh, P. C, vii 

Wenley, A. G., Director, Freer Gallery 
of Art, viii, 99, 123 

West, Elisabeth H., 120, 121, 122 

West, Mrs. Lnor 0., 122 

Wetmore, Alexander, ix, 31. 32 

Wetmore, Mrs. Alexander, 32 

Whipple, Fred L., Director, Astro- 
physical Observatory, vii, 17, 83, 86, 
88, 92, 93, 98 

White, J. H., Jr., vii 

White, P. Alton, 182 

White, Gen. Thomas D., 125 

Whitmore, Frank C, 38 

Whitney, Charles A., viii, 82, 93 

Whitney, John Hay, ix, 192, 193 

Whittington, H. B. (A natural history 
of trilobites), 405 

Widder, Robert, 44 

Widman, William F., 165, 166, 171 

Wilding, A. W., chief, supply division, v 

Willis, Edwin, 181 

Wilson, Druid, 34 

Wilson, Mildred S., ix 

Witty, Thomas A., 67 

Wolfe, John R., 174 

Wood, John A., viii, 83, 93 

Wood, W. Raymond, 67 

Wright, James F., viii, 165, 166, 169, 
174, 175 

Wurdack, J. J., vi 



X-rays from the sun (Herbert Fried- 
man), 251 

Y 

Yeager Philip B. (The new age of the 
sea), 381 

Z 

Zadunaisky, Pedro E., vii, 85, 87 
Zimmerman, John, 181 



o 



SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION LIBRARIES 




3 9088 01421 7673 



