101 



/'V, 



ANNUAL EEPORT ,-_,,..< 



THE BOARD OF REGEl^TS 



SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 



rHE OPERATIONS, EXPENDITURES, AND CONDITION OF THE INSTITUTION 

FOR THE YEAR 1871. 



^ « ♦ ■♦»■ 



WASHINGTaN: 

aoVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE. 

1873. 



In the Senate o 
Ordered to lie ou the table and be printed. 



LETTER 

FROM THE 

ECRETARY OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 

TRAXSJIITTIXCr 

The annual report of the Smithsonian Institution for the year 1871. 



Smithsonian Institution, 

Washington, April 15, 1872. 
Sir : In behalf of the Board of Eegents, I have the honor to submit 
to the Congress of the United States the annual report of the opera- 
tions, expenditures, and condition of the Smithsonian Institution for 
the year 1871. 
I have the honor to be, very respectfully, your obedient servant, 

JOSEPH HEi^IRY, 
Secretary Smithsonian Institution. 
Hon. S. Colfax, 

President of the Senate. 
Hon. J. G. Blaine, 

Spealier of the House of Eepresentatives. 



ANNUAL REPORT OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION FOR 1871. 



This documeut contains : 1. The programme of organization of the 
Smithsonian Institution. 2. The annual report of the Secretary, giving 
an account of the operations and condition of the establishment for the 
year 1871, with the statistics of collections, exchanges, meteorology, &c. 

3. The report of the executive committee, exhibitingthe financial affairs 
of the Institution, including a statement of the Smithson fund, the re- 
ceipts and expenditures for the year 1871, and the estimates for 1872. 

4. The proceedings of the Board of Eegents. 5. A general appendix, 
consisting principally of reports of lectures, translations from foreign, 
journals of articles not generally accessible, but of interest to meteor- 
ologists, correspondents of the Institution, teachers, and others inter- 
ested in the promotion of knowledge. 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 



ULYSSES S. GEANT Presideut of the Uuited States, cx-officio Presiding Officer of 

the Institution. 

SALMON P. CHASE Chief Justice of the Uuited States, Chaucellor of the Insti- 
tution, Presideut of the Board of Regents. 

JOSEPH HENEY Secretary (or Director) of the Institution. 



EEGENTS OF THE INSTITUTION. 



S. P. CHASE Chief Justice of the United States, President of the Board. 

S. COLFAX Vice-President of the Uuited States. 

HENRY D. COOKE Governor of the District of Coluiuhia. 

L. TRUMBULL Member of the Senate of the Uuited States. 

GARRETT DAVIS Member of the Senate of the United States. 

H. HAMLIN j\Iember of the Seuate of the United States. 

J. A. GARFIELD Member of the House of Representatives. 

L. P. POLAND Member of the House of Representatives. 

S. S. COX Member of the House of Representatives. 

W. B. ASTOR Citizen of New York. 

T. D. WOOLSEY Citizen of Connecticut. 

L. AGASSIZ Citizen of Massachusetts. * 

PETER PARKER Citizen of Washington. 

JOHN MACLEx\N Citizen of New Jersey. 

WILLIAM T. SHERMAN ..Citizen of Washington. 



EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE OF THE BOAED OF EEGENTS. 

PETER PARKER. JOHN MACLEAN. WILLIAM T. SHERMAN. 



MEMBEES EX OFFICIO OF THE INSTITUTION. 



U. S. GRANT President of the United States. 

S. COLFAX Vice-President of the Uuited States. 

S. P. CHASE Chief Justice of the Uuited States. 

H. FISH Secretary of State. 

G. S. BOUTVVELL Secretary of the Treasury. 

W. W BELKNAP Secretary of War. 

G. M. ROBESON Secretary of the Navy. 

J. A. J. CRESWELL Postmaster General. 

C. DELANO Secretary of the Interior. 

GEO. H. WILLIAMS Attorney General. 

M. D. LEGGETT Commissioner of Patents. 

H. D. COOKE Governor of the District of Columbia. 



OFFICERS OF THE INSTITUTION. 



JOSEPH HENRY, Secretary, 
Director of the Institution. 



SPENCEE F. BAIRD, 
Assistant Secretary. 



WILLIAM J. RHEES, 

Chief Clerk. 



DANIEL LEECH, 
Corresponding Clerk. 



CLARENCE B. YOUNG, 

Boolc-lcecpcr. 



HERMANNS' DIEBITSCH, 
Meteorological Clerk. 



HENRY M. B^WNISTER, 
Museum Clerk. 



EDWARD PALMER, 
Curator of the Museum. 



JANE A. TURNER, 

Exchange Clerk. 



SOLOMON G. BROWN, 
Transportation Clerk. 



JOSEPH HERRON, 
Janitor of the Museum. 



PROGRAMME OF ORGANIZATION 



SMITHSONIAI INSTITUTION. 



[PEESENTED IN THE FIRST ANNUAL REPORT OF THE SECRETARY, AND 
ADOPTED BY THE BOARD OF REGENTS, DECEMBER 13, 1S47.] 



INTEODUCTION. 



General coimderations which shoidd serve as a f/uldc in adopting a Plan 

of Organization. 

1. Will of Smithson. The property is bequeathed to the United 
States of America, "to found at Washington, under the name of the 
Smithsonian Institution, an establishment for the increase and dif- 
fusion of knowledge among men." 

2. The bequest is for the benefit of mankind. The Government of 
the United States is merely a trustee to carry out tlie design of the 
testator. 

3. The Institution is not a national establishment, as is frequently 
supposed, but the establishment of an individual, and is to bear and 
perpetuate his name. 

4. The objects of the Institution are, 1st, to increase, and 2d, to dif- 
fuse knowledge among men. 

5. These two objects shonld not be confounded with one another. 
The first is to enlarge the existing stock of knowledge by the addition 
of new truths ; and the second, to disseminate knowledge, thus increased, 
among men. 

C. The will makes no restriction in favor of any particular kind of 
knowledge ; hence all branches are entitled to a share of attention. 

7. Knowledge can be increased by different methods of facilitating 
and promoting the discovery of new truths ; and can be most exten- 
sively diffused among men by means of the press. 

8. To effect the greatest amount of good, the organization should be 
such as to enable the Institution to produce results, in the way of in- 
creasing and dittusing knowledge, which cannot be produced either at 
all or so eflficieutly by the existing institutions in our country. 



8 PROGRAMME OF ORGANIZATION. 

9. The organization should also be such as can be adopted i^rovis- 
ioually ; can be easily reduced to practice ; receive modifications, or be 
abandoned, in whole or in part, without a sacrifice of the funds. 

10. In order to compensate in some measure for the loss of time occa- 
sioned by the delay of eight years in establishing the Institution, a 
considerable i)ortion of the interest which has accrued should be added 
to the principal. 

11. In proportion to the wide field of knowledge to be cultivated, the 
funds are small. Economy should, therefore, be consulted in the con- 
struction of the building- ; and not only the first cost of the edifice 
should be considered, but also the continual expense of keeping- it in 
repair, and of the support of the establishment necessarily^ connected 
with it. There should also be but few individuals permanently sup- 
ported by the Institution. 

12. The plan and dimensions of the building should be determined 
by the plan of organization, and not the converse. 

13. It should be recollected that mankind in general are to be bene- 
fited by the bequest, and that, therefore, all unnecessary expenditure 
on local objects would be a perversion of the trust. 

14. Besides the foregoing considerations, deduced immediately from 
the will of Smithson, regard must be had to certain requirements of the 
act of Congress establishing the Institution. These are, a library, a 
museum, and a gallery of art, with a building on a liberal scale to con- 
tain them. 

SECTION I. 

Plan of organization of the Institution in accordance icith the foregoing 
deductions from the will of iSmithson. 

To INCREASE KNOWLEDGE. It is propOSCd — 

1. To stimulate men of talent to make original researches, by offering 
suitable rewards for memoirs containing- new truths ; and, 

2. To appropriate annually a portion of the income for i)articular re- 
searches, under the direction of suitable persons. 

To DIFFUSE KNOWLEDGE. It is proposed — 

1. To publish a series of periodical reports on the progress of the 
different branches of knowledge ; and, 

2. To publish occasionally separate treatises on subjects of general 
interest. 

DETAILS OF THE PLAN TO INCREASE KNOWLEDGE. 

I. By stimulating researches. 

1. Facilities afforded for the production of original memoirs on all 
branches of knowledge. 



PROGRAMME OF ORGANIZATION. 9 

2. The memoirs tlins obtaiued to be published iu a series of volumes, in 
a quarto form, aud entitled Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge. 

3. Xo memoir on subjects of physical science to be accepted for pub- 
lication which does not furnish a positive addition to human knowledge, 
resting on original research; and all unverified speculations to be re- 
jected. 

4. Each memoir presented to the Institution to be submitted for ex- 
amination to a commission of persons of reputation for learning in the 
branch to which the memoir pertains ; aud to be accepted for publica- 
tion only in case the report of this commission is favorable. 

5. The commission to be chosen by the oflicers of the Institution, 
and the name of the author, as far as practicable, concealed, unless a 
favorable decision is made. 

6. The volumes of the memoirs to be exchanged for the transactions 
of literary and scientific societies, and copies to be given to all the col- 
leges and principal libraries iu this country. One part of the remaining 
copies may be offered for sale, and the other carefully preserved, to 
form complete sets of the work, to supply the demand from new in- 
stitutions. 

7. An abstract, or popular account, of the contents of these memoirs 
to be given to the public through the annual re[)ort of the Regents 
to Congress. 

II. Bij apjri'Qpriathuj a part of the income, annually, to special objects 
of research, under the direction of suitable persons. 

1. The objects, and the amount appropriated, to be recommended by 
counselors of the Institution. 

2. Appropriations in different years to different objects ; so that in 
course of time each branch of knowledge may receive a share. 

3. The results obtained from these appropriations to be published, 
with the memoirs before mentioned, in the volumes of the Smithsouiau 
Contributions to Knowledge. 

4. Examples of objects for which appropriations may be made: 

(1.) System of extended meteorological observations for solving the 
problem of American storms. 

(2.) Explorations in descriptive natural history, and geological, mag- 
netical, and topographical surveys, to collect materials for the fornuition 
of a physical atlas of the United States. 

(3.) Solution of experimental problems, such as a new determina- 
tion of the weight of the earth, of the velocity of electricity, and of 
light ; chemical analyses of soils and plants ; collection and publication 
of scientific facts accumulated in the offices of Government. 

(4.) Institution of statistical inquiries with reference to physical, 
moral, and political subjects. 



10 PROGRAMME OF ORGANIZATION. 

(5.) Historical researches, aud accurate surveys of places celebrated 
in American history. 

(G.) Ethnological researches, particularly with reference to the differ- 
ent races of men in l!^orth America ; also, explorations and accurate 
surveys of the mounds and other remains of the ancient people of our 
country. 

DETAILS OF THE PLAN FOR DIFFUSING KNOWLEDGE. 

I. By the puhlicaiion of a series of reports, ijivi)f[/ «« account of the 
neiD discoveries in science, and of the changes made from year to year 
in all branches of Icnoicledge not strictly j^rofessional. 

1. These reports will diflase a kind of knowledge generally interest- 
ing, but which, at present, is inaccessible to the public. Some of the 
reports may be published annually, others at longer intervals, as the 
income of the Institution or the changes in the branches of knowledge 
may indicate. 

2. The reports are to be prepared by collaborators emiuent in the dif- 
ferent branches of knowledge. 

3. Each collaborator to be furnished with the journals aud publica- 
tions, domestic and foreign, necessary to the compilation of his report ; 
to be paid a certain sum for his labors, and to be named on the title- 
page of the report. 

4. The reports to be published in separate parts, so that persons in- 
terested in a particular branch can procure the parts relating to it with-' 
out purchasing the whole. 

5. These reports may be presented to Congress, for partial distribu- 
tion, the remaining copies to be given to literary and scientific insti- 
tutions, and sold to individuals for a moderate price. 

II. By the imhlication of separate treatises on sid)jects of general interest. 

1. These treatises may occasionally consist of valuable memoirs, 
translated from foreign languages, or of articles i)repared under the 
direction of the lustitution, or procured by oifering i^remiums for the 
best exposition of a given subject. 

2. The treatises should, in all cases, be submitted to a commission of 
competent judges, previous to their publication. 

3. As examples of these treatises, expositions may be obtained of the 
jiresent state of the several branches of knowledge mentioned in the 
table of reports. 

SECTION II. 

Plan of organization, in accordance with the terms of the resolutions of 
the Board of Regents providing for the two modes of increasing and 
difynsing Jcnoivledge. 

1. The act of Congress establishing the Institution contemplated the 
formation of a library and a museum ; and the Board of Kegeuts, in- 



PROGRAMME OF ORGANIZATION. 11 

eluding these objects in the plan of organization, resolved to divide 
the income into two equal parts. 

2. One part to be appropriated to increase and diffuse knowledge by 
means of publications and researches, agreeably to the scheme before 
given. The other part to be appropriated to the formation of a library 
and a collection of objects of nature and art. 

3. These two plans are not incompatible with one another. 

4. To carry out the plan before described, a library will be required, 
consisting, 1st, of a complete collection of the transactions and pro- 
ceedings of all the learned societies in the world; 2d, of the more im- 
portant current periodical publications, and other works necessary in 
Ijreparing the periodical reports. 

5. The Institution should make special collections, particularly of ob- 
jects to illustrate and verify its own publications. 

C. Also, a collection of instruments of research in all branches of ex- 
l^erimental science. 

7. With reference to the collection of books, other than those men- 
tioned above, catalogues of all the difierent libraries in the United 
States should be procured, in order that the valuable books first pur- 
chased may be such as are not to be found in the United States. 

8. Also, catalogues of memoirs, and of books and other materials, 
should be collected for rendering the Institution a center of bibliograph- 
ical knowledge, whence the student may be directed to any work which 
he may require. 

9. It is believed that the collections in natural history will increase 
by donation as rapidly as the income of the Institution can make pro- 
vision for their reception, and, therefore, it will seldom be necessary to 
Xiurchase articles of this kind. 

10. Attempts should be made to secure for the gallery of art casts of 
the most celebrated articles of ancient and modern sculpture. 

11. The arts may be encouraged by providing a room, free of expense, 
for the exhibition of the objects of the Art-Union and other similar 
societies. 

12. A small appropriation should annually be made for models of an- 
tiquities, such as those of the remains of ancient temples, &c. 

13. For the present, or until the building is fully completed, besides 
the Secretary no permanent assistant will be required, exceptone, to act 
as librarian. 

14. The Secretary, by the law of Congress, is alone responsible to the 
Eegents. He shall take charge of the building and property, keep a 
record of proceedings, discharge the duties of librarian and keeper of 
the museum, and may, with the consent of the Kegents, cmpJoy assist- 
ants. 

15. The Secretary and his assistants, during the session of Congress, 
will be required to illustrate new discoveries in science, and to exhibit 



12 PEOGEAMME OF OEGANIZATION. 

new objects of art. Distinguished individuals should also be invitedto 
give lectures on subjects of general interest. 



The foregoing programme was that of the general policy of the In- 
stitution until 18G6, when Congress took charge of the library, and since 
an appropriation has been made by Government for the maintenance of 
the museum the provisons of Section II are no longer fully observed. 



REPOET 

OF 

PROFESSOR JOSEPH HENRY, 

SECRETARY OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 
ir-OR 1871. 



To the Board of Begcnts of tJie Smithsonian Institution : 

Gentlemen : I Lave the honor to present herewith another annnal 
report, in which I am happy to inform you that the financial affairs of 
the Institution intrusted to your care by the Government of the United 
States are still in a favorable condition, and that its operations during 
the year 1871 have cojitinued to enlarge the bounds of human knowl- 
edge and to facilitate the international exchange of scientific truths. 

Finances. — The following is a general statement of the condition of 
the Smithson fund at the beginning of the yearlS72, as will be seen by 
a reference to the report of the Executive Committee : 

Total permanent Smithson fund in United States Treasury. $650, 000 00 
In addition to the above there remains of the extra fund, 
derived from savings, &c., in Virginia bonds, at par val- 
ue, $88,125.20 ; now worth about 35, 500 00 

Cash balance in First National Bank 10, 315 02 

Amount of congressional appropriation for the fiscal year, 
June 30, 1872, $10,000, one-half of which is available 
January, 1872 5, 000 00 

Total Smithson funds, January, 1872 706, 815 02 



The Virginia stock, which in 1870 was $72,760, has been nominally 
increased to $88,125.18 by the funding of the interest due, while the 
marketable value of the whole has declined from $48,000 to $35,500. 
This fall in the value of the Virginia stock has been due to the un- 
settled policy of the State in regard to its public debt. It will be 
recollected that all the other State stocks held by the Institution, in 
which the savings from the income had been invested, were sold in 
1867, and the proceeds, added, by an act of Congress, to the perma- 
nent fund, forever deposited in the Treasury of the United States. 
The Virginia stock was retained, with the confident expectation on the 
part of the majority of the Board of Eegents that its value would 
increase. Not the slightest idea was entertained that Virginia, with 



14 EEPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

all ber resources and a large amount of money in her treasury, would 
liesitate to make provision for the payment of the interest on her bonds. 
It is still confidently expected, from recent indications, that the value 
of this stock will increase. I would, however, recommend that it be 
disposed of as soon as may be, and the proceeds added to the perma- 
nent fund. 

In an institution of this kind no dependence ought to be placed upon 
the contingency of the tiuctuatiou of stocks. I may, perhaps, in this 
connection, be allowed to mention the fact that, to meet the payments 
on the building during its construction, it became my duty from time 
to time to sell portions of the stock Jn which the building fund had 
been invested. In doing this, by waiting a few days, in some cases a 
considerable profit might have been made, and in other cases a loss 
would have ensued. These fluctuations gave rise to considerable 
anxiety and an unpleasant sense of responsibility, from which I was 
relieved by adopting the rule always to sell on the day in which the 
money was actuallj^ required. A similar policy has been adopted in 
regard to the sale of the gold received as the semi-annual interest on. 
the permanent fund, which is always disposed of on the day in which, 
it is paid by the Treasury, and the proceeds placed to the credit of the 
Smithson account in the First National Bank. 

The income from the fund during the year, including the premium on 
gold, was $43,192.50. The expenditures were as follows : viz, $9,032.41 
for repairs, and reconstruction of the building, and furniture ; $11,302.64 
for salaries and general expenses ; $15,431,93 for publications and re- 
searches ; $8,132.95 for museum ; $4,455.30 for exchanges, etc. ; mak- 
ing an aggregate of $48,355.29, indicating an apparent excess of, 
expenditures over receipts of $5,102.79. But to balance this excess 
there remained in the United States Treasury, as previously stated 
$5,000 of the appropriation for the museum which had not been drawn. 

Besides the foregoing, $20,000 were expended on the building, and 
$4,970 for the care of the museum I'rom appropriations by Congress, a 
more detailed account of which will be found in a subsequent part of 
this report. 

As stated in the last report Congress has indicated its intention to 
make appropriations for the independent support of the national mu- 
seum, under the care of the Institution, and hence, in giving an account 
of the operations of the whole establishment, it is proper to divide them 
into two classes, those which relate to the legitimate objects of the 
Smithsonian Institution and those which pertain to the care and exhi- 
bition of the specimens of the national museum. In the following 
account we shall adopt this division. 

OPERATIONS OF THE INSTITUTION. 

Fuhlications.— The publications of the Institution are of three classes 
—the Contributions to Knowledge, the Miscellaneous Collections, and 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 15 

the Auuual Eeports. The first consist of memoirs coutaining positive 
additions to science resting on original research, and which are gener- 
ally the resnlt of investigations to which the Institntion has in some 
way rendered assistance. The Miscellaneons Collections are composed 
of works intended to facilitate the study of branches of natural his- 
tory, meteorology, etc., and are designed especially to induce individuals 
to engage in studies as specialties. The Annual Eeports, beside an 
account of the operations, expenditures, and condition of the Institu- 
tion, contain translations from works not generally accessible to Amer- 
ican students, reports of lectures, extracts from correspondence, &c. 

During the past year the seventeenth volume of the Contributions has 
been distributed. It consists of a single memoir, by Lewis H. Morgan, 
esq., of G02 quarto pages, illustrated by thirteen plates, in three parts: 
First, a descriptive system of relationship of the Aryan, Semitic, and 
Uralian families; second, the classiticatory sj'stem of the Ganowanian 
family ; and third, a classiticatory system of the Turanian and Malayan 
families. This volume has been distributed to institutions in this country 
and abroad, and has met with approval as an important contribution to 
the science of anthropology. 

The paper on "The rain-fall in the United States," referred to in the 
last report, has been i)rinted, but it was found necessary to make 
additions and corrections, especially in the charts, which have pre- 
vented its distribution to the present time. 

A short paper by Professor William Ferrel, on "Converging series, ex- 
pressing the ratio between the diameter and the circumference of a 
circle," which was read before the National Academy of Sciences, has 
been printed during the past year, and will form part of the eighteenth 
volume of the Contributions. 

The papers of General J. G. Barnard, on " Problems of rotary motion 
presented by the gyroscope, the precession of the equinoxes, and the 
pendulum ;" of Mr. J. N. Stockwell, on " Secular variations in the orbits 
of the eight principal planets ;" and of Dr. H. C. Wood, on " Fresh- 
water algce," have been placed in the hands of the printers during the 
past year, and will also form parts of the eighteenth volume of Contribu- 
tions, to be issued in 1872. 

Another paper in course of publication is by Professor William Hark- 
ness, of the United States jSTaval Observatory. It contains the records 
and discussions of a series of magnetic observations by the professor dur- 
ing thecruise of the Monitor Monadnock, from Philadelphia to San Fran- 
cisco, in 18G5-'CG. The investigation was undertaken because the vessel 
was heavily armored and the voyage extended far into both hemispheres, 
thus afibrding a favorable opportunity of submitting Poisson's theory of 
the deviations of compasses on iron ships to the test of rigorous observa- 
tions, which had never been done before. The disturbing force acting on 
a compass-needle is expressed as a function of the force of terrestrial mag- 
netism, and of certain constants ])eculiar to the ship upon which the 



16 EEPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

compass is situated. Hence, in addition to swinging the Monadnock, or, 
in other words, turning its bow in succession to every point of the liorizon 
to determine the deviations of her compasses from the true north, it was 
necessary to make observations on terrestrial magnetism on shore, and 
these, in their turn, required the determination of time, latitude, and 
azimuth. The memoir is divided into five sections: 1st, introduction; 
2d, description of stations; 3d, astronomical observations; 4th, observa- 
tions on terrestrial magnetism ; 5th, observations on the magnetism of 
the ship. The results obtained may be summed up as follows : The lati- 
tude of seven points was determined. The magnetic declination, incli- 
nation, and horizontal force were obtained at seventeen stations, eleven 
of which Avere in South America. The ship was swung, and the devia- 
tions of all her compasses, seven in number, were observed and compared 
with those deduced from theory at ten places so situated as to afford 
very great changes in the terrestrial magnetic elements. For all these 
compasses the co-efiicients or quantities necessary to reduce Poisson's 
general equations were determined separately, with considerable accu- 
racy. The agreement between theory and observation was found to 
be sufliciently exact for the imrposes of navigation, but not entirely 
satisfactory in a scientific point of view. It appears from the results that 
certain parts of the theory require further investigation; and from the 
observations it is shown that when a vessel is swung for the first time 
near where she was built it is impossible to make any reliable estimate 
of the changes which the deviations of her compasses will undergo upon 
a change of magnetic latitude. 

The memoir of Dr. E. W. Hilgard, on '' The geology of Lower Louisiana, 
including the Petite Anse region," mentioned in the last report, has been 
received from the author, and the illustrations put in the hands of the 
engraver. 

The work of Professor S. Newcomb, on "A new orbit of Uranus as 
influenced by the perturbations of Neptune and other bodies," is still in 
progress. In the calcuhition of the tables for indicating the places 
of Uranus, the assistance of Dr. Kampf, late of Germany, has been 
secured at the expense of the Institution. The labors of Professor 
Newcomb are gratuitously given for the advance of science. 

The articles for the Miscellaneous Collections mentioned in the last 
report, viz : DeSaussure's " Monograph of hymenoptera," Uhler's " Mono- 
graph of hemiptera," and Watson's '"Botany of the region west of the 
Mississippi," are still in the course of preparation, and some of them 
will be i)ul)lished during the next year. 

The "Arrangement of the families of Mollusks," by Professor Theo- 
dore Gill, described in the last report, has been i)ublished. It forms an 
octavo pami)hlet of G5 pages, and will be of importance in arranging 
the specimens of the national museum, as well as those of other col- 
lections in this country. 

A fourth edition of the " List of foreign institutions in correspondence 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. ' 17 

•with the Smithsonian" is now in press, as well as a similar list, em- 
bracing all the scientific, educational, and literary establishments in the 
United States, prepared by Mr. Rhees, chief clerk of this Institution. 

New editions of the following works were x^rinted during the year : 
Physical and meteorological tables. Catalogue of Smithsonian publica- 
tions, Eeview of American Birds, Classification of coleoptera, Bibliog- 
raphy of Korth American couchology, Eesearches on Hydrobiinsie, 
Check lists of fossils. Instructions relative to shells, insects, tornadoes, 
Museum miscellanea. Catalogue of birds, &c. 

In addition to the above, the following new circulars of instructions 
have been prepared and distributed : 

Circular relative to observations on tliunder-storms. 

Circular relative to the construction of lightning-rods. 
. Circular relative to collection of altitudes from railway and canal 
explorations. 

The Institution many years ago prepared and published lists of 
words and phrases for collecting vocabularies of the several Indian lan- 
guages of North America, which were distributed to officers of the Army, 
missionaries. Government exploring parties, and private individuals, 
and from these have been received over two hundred separate vocabu- 
laries. These include the tribes of Oregon, Washington, California, 
northwest coast. New Mexico, Arizona, and the prairies. They have all 
been placed in the hands of George Gibbs, esq., for critical study and 
revision, and after consultation with some of the principal philologists 
of the country, it has been, concluded to publish them, as it were provis- 
ionally, for distribution, as materials for ethnological and linguistic in- 
vestigations. Mr. Gibbs has kindly undertaken to superintend the 
I)riuting, and it is proposed to put them to press immediately. They 
will Jiot only be of great use to the student of ethnology, but also be 
of practical value to missionaries, teachers, and all who are brought 
into intercourse with the aborigines of the country. No publication of 
the Institution has been called for more frequently than that of the 
Grammar and Dictionary of the Dakota lauguage. Unfortunately, it 
was published at an early period of the Institution, and was not stereo- 
typed ; otherwise we would long since have struck off a new edition. 

The Eeport of the Institution for the year 1870 was printed, as here- 
tofore, at the Government expense, and we are gratified to state 
that a larger number of extra copies was ordered than of the pre- 
vious year. The demand for these reports is, however, constantly 
increasing; and we would renew the recommendation made before, that 
Congress not only order a larger edition of the report for the coming 
year, but that a new edition be printed from the stereotype plates of 
previous volumes. In addition to the report of the Secretary, giving 
an account of the operations, expenditures, «S:c., of the Institution, and 
the i^roceedings of the Board of Regents, the report for 1870 contains 
2s71 



1»8 ♦ KEPORT OF THE SECEETARY. 

the following articles: A eulogy on Professor Alexander Dallas Bache, 
late Superintendent of the Coast Survey, and president of the National 
Academy of Sciences, prepared by Professor Henry at the request of 
the Board of Eegents of the Smithsonian Institution ; a lecture on 
Switzerland, by Professor Bache,to illustrate his style, with notes, bring- 
ing the subject down to the present time, by Jno. Hitz, esq., consul 
general of that country ; on a physical observatory, by Professor 
Henry ; memoirs of Arago, Sir John Herschel, Henry Gustavus Mag- 
nus, Professor Chester Dewey ; an original article on the nature 
and origin of force, by W. B. Taylor, of the United States Pateut- 
Oflice; a discourse on induction and deduction, by Liebig; an address 
on the relations of food to work and its bearing on medical practice 
by Eev. Samuel Haughton, of Dublin ; a lecture on hydrogen, by Dr. J. 
E. Eeynolds ; a lecture on the identification of the artisan and artist, by 
Cardinal Wiseman ; the diamond and other precious stones, translated 
from the French of M. Babinet; a large number of original communica- 
tions on ethnology, physics, and meteorology. 

The following are the rules which have been adopted for the distribu- 
tion of the publications of the Smithsonian Institution : 

1st. To learned societies of the first class which present complete 
series of their publications to the Institution. 

2d. To libraries of the first class which give in exchange their cata- 
logues and other publications ; or an equivalent, from their duplicate 
volumes. 

3d. To colleges of the first class which furnish meteorological observa- 
tions, catalogues of their libraries and of their students, and all other 
publications relative to their organization and history. 

4th. To States and Territories, provided they give in return copies of 
all documents published under their authority. 

5th. To public libraries in this country, not included in any of the 
foregoing classes, containing 10,000 volumes, and to smaller libraries 
where a large district would be otherwise unsupplied. 

6th. To institutions devoted exclusively to the promotion of particular 
branches of knowledge are given such pmithsoniau publications as 
relate to their respective objects. 

7th. The Reports are presented to the meteorological observers, to con- 
tributors of valuable material to the library or collections, and to per- 
sons engaged in special scientific research. 

Exchanges. — The system of international exchanges has been largely 
increased in extent and efficiency during the past year. The number of 
foreign establishments to which the Smithsonian and other publications 
are distributed, and from which returns are received, now amounts to 
nearly two thousand. The system includes not only all the first-class 
libraries, and societies of established reputation, but also a considerable 
number of the minor institutions of the Old ^Yorld. The following 



REPORT OF THE SECRETx^RY, 



19 



u institutions in eacli country 
in correspondence: 

Turkey 

Africa 

Asia 

Australia 

Xew Zealand 

Polynesia . , 

South America 

West Indies 

Mexico 

Central America 

Britisli America 

General 



witb 

11 
18 
3G 
20 
11 
1 

oo 
OO 

11 

8 

1 

27 

5 



Total 1,937 



table exhibits the number of foreift- 
which the Smithsonian is at present 

Sweden 10 

Norway 22 

Iceland 2 

Denmark 20 

Eussia Iij4: 

Holland 05 

Germany 573 

Switzerland 03 

Belgium 120 

France 100 

Italy 119 

Portugal 20 

Spain 11 

Great Britain and Ireland . . 323 

Greece , 

During the year, 1,778 packages, containing many thousand different 
articles, were transmitted to foreign countries. These packages filled 
108 large boxes, having a cubical content of 772 feet and weighing 
29,050 pounds. The parcels received at the Institution for parties in 
this country, in addition to those for the Smithsonian library, numbered 
3,052. 

As in previous years, the Institution has received important aid from 
various steamer and railroad lines in the way of free freights, without 
which the expense of carrying on the system would be far beyond the 
means at our command. Acknowledgment is again due for the liber- 
ality of the following companies : Pacific Mail Steamship, Panama Eail- 
road, Pacific Steam Navigation, New York and Mexican Steamship, 
New York and Brazilian Line, North German Lloyds, Hamburg Ameri- 
can Packet, French Transatlantic, Inman Line, Cunard Line, Anchor 
Line, Union Pacific Eailroad. The Adams Express Company also 
continues its liberal policy in regard to freight for the Institution. 

The advantages which result from the international scientific ex- 
changes have become so apparent that establishments similar in this 
respect to the Smithsonian are beginning to be formed in different parts 
of Europe. A central scientific bureau for the Netherlands has been 
established in Amsterdam, the object of which is to receive and trans- 
mit packages for different parts of the world, and in this country to 
co-operate with the Smithsonian Institution. 

The international exchange is not confined alone to the transactions 
and proceedings of societies, but also includes scientific works of indi- 
viduals. We frequently receive from persons abroad who can afford 
the cost, coj^ies of works to be gratuitously distributed among insti- 
tutions and libraries in this country, and also scientific works from 



20 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

persons iu this country to be distributed abroad. In most cases the list 
of distribution is made out by the party sending the copies, but some- 
times the selection of recipients is left to the Institution. Among the 
articles distributed in this way which we should have mentioned in the 
last report, is the narrative of an exploration to Musardo, the capital of 
the Western Mandigoes, through the country east of Liberia, by Benja- 
min Anderson, a young man of pure negro blood. The narrative was 
printed without correction from the origiuiil manuscript at the expense 
of Mr. H. M. Schieffelin, of New York, and nearly the whole of the edi- 
tion was presented to the Institution for distribution. 

The labors of the Institution in the way of exchanges can scarcely be 
too highly estimated. Whatever tends to enlarge the sympathies of 
individuals and of nations, to render the progress of thought iu each 
country common to all, must serve an important end in advanc- 
ing the world in intelligence and morality. The works which are re- 
ceived through this system, by the several institutions of the United 
States, contain the records of the advance of science in all foreign coun- 
tries at the present day. They do not consist of ordinary books, but 
special accounts of the actual increase of knowledge by the liuman 
family, or an account of that which constitutes the advance of man in 
a higher and wider intellectual development. 

To afford information as to the regulations adopted for transmitting 
packages intended for exchange, a circular, of which the following is a 
copy, has been widely distributed : 

1. Every i)ackage, without exception, must be enveloped in strong 
paper, and so secured as to bear separate transportation by express or 
otherwise. 

2. The address of the institution for which, or the individual for whom, 
the parcel is intended must be written legibly on the package, and the 
name of the sender in one corner. 

3. No single package must exceed the half of a cubic foot iu bulk. 

4. A detailed list of addresses of all the parcels sent, with their con- 
tents, must accompany them. 

5. No letter or other communication can be allowed in the parcel, 
excepting such as relates exclusively to the contents of the package. 

C. All packages must be delivered iu Washington free of freight and 
other expenses. 

Unless all these conditions are complied with the parcels are not for- 
warded from the Institution; and on the failure to comply with the 
first and second conditions, they are returned to the sender for correction. 

The Institution recommends that every parcel should contain a blank 
acknowledgment, to be signed by the recipient and returned through the 
agent of the Institution, or, what is still better, directly by mail to the 
sender. Should exchanges be desired for what is sent, the fact should be 
explicitly stated on the accompanying circular. Much disappointment is 
frequently expressed at the absence of any return in kind for trausmis- 



EEPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 21 

sious ; but unless these are specifically asked for tbey will fail iu many 
instances to be made. It will facilitate the labor of the Institution 
very greatly if the number corresponding to the several addresses in 
the Smithsonian printed catalogue be marked on the face of each 
parcel ; and for this purpose a copy of the work will be forwarded to 
all who apply for it. 

Specimens of natural history will not be received for transmission, 
unless with a previous understanding as to their character and bulk. 

Library. — The accessions to the library during the last^ year from the 
foreign exchanges have not been as large as they were the year before, 
on account of the war between France and Germany. 

The following is a statement of the books, maps, and charts received 
by exchange in 1871, and which have been deposited in the i^ational 
Library in accordance with arrangements made several years ago, 
and fully explained in previous reports : 

Volumes : 

Quarto, or larger 277 

Octavo, or less 659 

93G 

Parts of volumes : 

Quarto, or larger ^ 025 

Octavo, or less 1, 150 

1, 781 

Pamphlets : 

Quarto, or larger 310 

Octavo, or less 1, 482 

1, 798 

Maps and charts 82 

Total receipts 4, 597 



The following are some of the larger foreign donations received by 
the Smithsonian Institution in 1871 : 

From the Eoyal University of Xorway, Christiauia : 14 volumes, 37 
pamphlets, and 3 charts. 

Bergen Museum, Bergen, Norway : 11 volumes and 31 pamphlets. 

Ilussian government, St. Petersburg : Engineering Journal, Artillery 
Journal and Ordnance Magazine for 1870 ; Caucasian statistics, 1809 j 
Appendix to the Code of Laws, 1809. 

Statistical bureau, Stockholm : Contributions to Swedish statistics, 26 
parts, quarto. 

Emperor of Germany : " Preussen's Schlosser undEesidenzen," vol. xi, 
folio ; and " Scriptores rerum Prussicarum," vol. iv. 

F. Vieweg & Son, Braunschweig : 42 volumes and 12 pamphlets. 



22 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

Huugarian Academy of Sciences, Pestb : 16 volumes and 03 parts, 
reports transactions, &c. 

University of Pestli : 44 pamphlets, inaugural dissertations. 

University of Leipsic : 104 pamplilets, inaugural dissertations. 

University of Gottingen : 70 pamphlets, inaugural dissertations. 

University of Bonn : 44 pamphlets, inaugural dissertations. 

University of Kouigsberg : 144 jiamphlets, inaugural dissertations. 

University of Wurzburg : 80 pamphlets, inaugural dissertations. 

Board of Admiralty, London : 7 volumes, 36 charts, and 10 pamphlets. 

British Museum: Catalogue of Syriac manuscripts, part ii; catalogue 
of prints ; catalogue of satires, vol. i ; hand list of birds, parts ii and iii. 

Eoyal Society, London : Philosophical transactions, vol. 160, part i; 
proceedings, 119-123; catalogue of scientific papers, vol. iv; Green- 
wich magnetic and meteorological observations, 1868. 

B. L. Simmonds, Loudon : 18 volumes and 52 pamphlets. 

Thomason College, Eourkee : 10 works on Civil Engineering. 

Government Observatory, Sydney, Australia : Observations, 3 volumes 
and 55 parts. 

Grand Ducal Court Library, Karlsruhe : 5 volumes and 3 parts. 

University of Pisa : 22 volumes and 40 ])amphlets. 

The Minister of Agriculture, Industry, and Commerce, Florence : 27 
volumes and 41 pamphlets. 

Eoyal Institution for the Encouragement of Natural Sciences, Tech- 
nology, »S:c., Naples : Atti, second series, volumes i-viii ; quarto. 

University of Chili, Santiago : 14 volumes and 5 pamphlets. 

The value of the ]S"ational Library still continues to be increased 
in the number and character of the books which are auuually added to 
it, first by books purchased, second by the Smithsonian exchanges, 
and third by the deposit of books in accordance with the copyright 
law. As we have said in previous reports, the space for the accommo- 
dation of this valuable library — now the largest in the United States — 
is far too circumscribed even for the wants of the present time, without 
regard to those of the future. It is, therefore, proper to keep the propo- 
sition of a new and separate building constantly in mind. The neces- 
sity for such a building is not alone confined to the better accommoda- 
tion of the books, but also includes greater facilities for consulting 
them by students, as well as by general readers, in the way of greater 
seclusion in separate spaces, and the number of hours during which the 
library is open. With a separate building, certain portions of it at 
least might be accessible during the evening, which, perhaps, would be 
of greater imjiortance to Washington than a similar arraugemeut in 
any other city, on account of the large number of educated men in the 
various offices of the Government, who cannot avail themselves at other 
hours of the great advantage which the library affords for the prose- 
cution of study. 

It may be proper to add, iu this connection, that the library now de- 



REP0RT OF THE SECRETARY. 23 

posited in the Army Medical Mnseiun, numbering' 20,000 volumes of 
works relating- to medical subjects, may be considered as part of the 
great I^ational Library, and is rapidly increasing in the number and 
value of its cqiitents by an annual appropriation from Congress. 

In accordance with the original agreement the use of these books, as 
well as those now in the Capitol, is free to the Smithsonian Institution, 
and we may perhaps indulge the hope that the new building- for the 
library, which is now contemplated, will be erected on the Smithsonian 
Grounds, perhaps as an extension of the present building. 

As we have said, one source of the increase of the library is the copy- 
right system. The number of these books would be increased, we think, 
and their character greatly improved, if an international copyright law 
were established, granting to the foreign author the same protection 
that is aiforded to our own citizens. For exami)le, we would ask, what 
would be the condition of the wool-grower if the manufacturer of cloth 
in this country had the power to obtain surreptitiously all the wool that 
he uses, i)aying nothing but for manufacturing the article ? What 
encouragement is there to an author to produce an original work on any 
branch of science when the imblisher can obtain one which will equally 
well answer his purpose from a foreigner without paying anything ? But 
the question ought not to be decided on considerations even of this 
character; it belongs to the province of justice and morality. The re- 
sults of the labors of the mind, which form the basis of all human im- 
provement, ought not to be appropriated without remuneration, any more 
than the labors of the hand or of the machine. 

Meteorology. — The impression has prevailed since the establishment 
of the meteorological system by the Government, under the direction of 
the Signal-Corps, that the observations which have been so long made 
under the direction of the Smithsonian Institution may now be discon- 
tinued. This idea is, however, erroneous. The object of the operations 
of the Signal-Service is principally one of immediate practical utility, 
viz, that of i^redicting the condition of the weather for a day or more 
in advance of the actual occurrence. This it is enabled to do by the 
fact previously established, that, as a general rule, disturbances of the 
atmosphere are propagated over a wide extent of the surface of the 
earth in an easterly direction. Besides the number of stations neces- 
sary for the practical predictions of the weather, a much more numer- 
ous series of stations and long-continued observations are required for 
determining the peculiarities of the climate, or for obtaining- such infor- 
mation as may satisfy the requirements of the scientist, the physician, 
and the agriculturist. It is on this account that the more extended 
observations established by the Institution, and which have now been 
prosecuted for more than twenty years, are continued. It is true we 
would be gratified if the charge of this system were transferred to the 
Government, with more ample funds for its maintenance than can be 
afforded from the income of the Institution. But so long as an arrange- 



24 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

ment of this kind is not effected, it becomes the duty of the Institution 
to continue the sj'Stem with such improvements as the appropriation 
■which can be made on account of it will allow. During the past year 
the number of stations has remained about the same, viz, 514, to which 
a large number of additional rain-gauges have been distributed. Besides 
these, meteorological observations are received from British America, 
Central ximerica, Mexico, Bermuda, and some of the West Indies. 

The tables and deductions of rain-fall have been printed, and are 
nearly ready for distribution. 

The discussion of alfthe observations relative to the winds made under 
the direction of the Institution is still going on under the supervision 
of Professor CofBn. Like his former work on the winds of the northern 
hemisphere, it will consist mainly of abstracts of observations on the 
relative frequency of the different winds, both at the surface of the earth 
and in the higher regions, as indicated by the motion of the clouds, with 
their resultant directions, and the monsoon influences by which they are 
aflected in the different seasons, or months of the year. Where data 
could be obtained the actual transfer of the air in miles is also given. 

Where the places of observation are sufficiently remote from each 
other to admit of distinct delineation of the results, on maps of the scale 
it is proposed to use, seiiarate computations are made for each ; in other 
cases they are grouped by districts. The work will embrace the follow- 
ing material : 

I. All the observations reported to the Smithsonian Institution from 
the year 1854 to 1869, inclusive, with some others in the earlier years.. 

II. All those made at the United States military posts, and reported 
to the Surgeon General, from the year 1822 to 1859 inclusive; and all 
those from posts west of the Mississippi for the succeeding ten years, 
np to the end of 18G9. 

III. All those at sea, collected at the United States Naval Observa- 
tory, so far as they have been published ; i. e., over all the oceans be- 
tween the parallels of latitude 60° north and south, except a compara- 
tively small i)ortion of the Xorth Pacific lying between the meridians 
150° east and 165° west from Greenwich ; and a few additional obser- 
vations south of Cape Horn. 

IV. Those taken at sea, beyond these limits, by Arctic and xVntarctic 
explorers. 

V. Those at several hundred stations in other parts of the globe. 
This material, though very much more condensed than in his former 

work, will still make a considerably larger volume. 

In the discussion the whole surface of the earth is divided into zones 
by i)arallels of latitude drawn 5° asunder, and observations in these zones 
investigated in regular order from the North to the South Pole ; com- 
mencing with the observations in each at the 180th meridian from Green- 
wich, and proceeding easterly to the same meridian again. Profes- 
sor Coffin hopes to complete the tabular work in the course of two or 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 25 

tliree inontlis, when notbiug will remaiu to be doue but tbc maps and 
some general deductions. 

To defray tbe cost of the labor iu the preparation of tUis work otber 
tbau tbat of Professor CofBn himself, an appropriation has been made 
from the income of tbe Institution. Tbe world will not only therefore 
be indebted to the Institution for the publication of the work, but also 
for the collection of tbe material and a part of the expense of tbe reduc- 
tions. 

I may mention tbat tbe previous publication by the Institution of the 
Winds of North America has been largely made use of by the English 
Board of Trade iu constructing their wind-charts of the northern oceans, 
and tbat the work now in process of prejiaration will be of especial value 
for a similar purpose. 

The temperature observations are still in progress of reduction, two 
compntors being engaged upon the work. The progress of their labors 
has, however, frequently been interrupted by calls from diflerent por- 
tions of the country for reports on the climate of different districts. 

The following is an account of the present condition of this part of 
the general reductions : 

The collection and tabulation, in tbe form of monthly and annual* 
means, of all accessible observations of the atmospheric temperature of 
the American continent and adjacent islands, have been completed to 
tbe close of the year 1870, and extensive tables representing the daily 
extremes, or the maximum and the minimum at the regular observing 
hours, have been prepared. 

An exhaustive discussion of all tbe observations available for tbe 
investigation of the daily fluctuations of the temperature has been 
made, and this part of tbe work is now ready for tbe printer. 

Tbe discussion of the annual fluctuations of tbe temperature has 
been commenced and carried as for as the present state of other parts 
of the discussion would permit. 

The construction of a consolidated table giving the mean results, 
from a series of years, for each month, season, and the year, at all of 
the stations, which will probably exceed 2,500 in number, has been 
begun and comj)leted for that part of the continent lying north of tbe 
United States, and also for several of the States. This is perhaps tbe 
most laborious, as it is one of tbe most important parts of tbe dis- 
cussion. In many of tbe large cities there are numerous series, made 
by various observers, at different hours, all of which have to be brought 
together, corrected for daily variation, and combined to obtain the 
final mean. To give some adequate idea of the time and labor involved 
in the preparation of these tables, it may be mentioned that, in tbe State 
of New York alone, there are about three hundred series, which are 
derived from nearly two million individual observations. 

The principal sources from which tbe general collection of results 
has been derived, may be enumer^ited as follows: 



26 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

1. The registers of the Smithsoniau Institution, embracing upward 
of three hundred large folio volumes. 

2. The publications of the Institution, Patent-Ofdce, Department of 
Agriculture, and public documents. 

3. All the published and unpublished records of the United States 
Army, United States Lake Survey, and United States Coast Survey. 

4. The large volume compiled by Dr. Hough, from the observations 
made in connection with the New York University system, the records 
made in connection with the Franklin Institute, and those obtained 
from numerous observatories and other scientific institutions. 

5. The immense collection of printed slips, pamphlets, manuscripts, 
&c., in the possession of the Smithsonian Institution. 

The work Jias been somewhat retarded by the collection and tabula- 
tion of the rain-fall, to the end of 1870 for the Smithsonian stations, 
and to the end of 1871 for the United States military posts. 

Beside the discussion of the observations on temperature, rain, and 
wind, there remain those relative to the pressure of the atmosphere, and 
its humidity ; also those which are classed under the head of casual 
phenomena, such as thunder-storms, tornadoes, auroras, meteors, early 
• and late frosts, progress of vegetation, opening and closing of rivers, &c. 
These will be put in hand as soon as the funds of the Institution which 
can be devoted to meteorology will i)ermit the requisite expenditure. 

Explorations and collections.— -As in i)revious reports, it is proper to 
make a distinction between the collections of the Institution and the 
specimens exhibited in the public museum. The former are collected 
as a part of the operations of the Institution, to advance science and 
promote general education ; they are usually in great numbers, includ- 
ing many duplicates of the same species. A type specimen of each 
species and variety is deposited in the National Museum. The remain- 
der are reserved for distribution to foreign establishments, and to 
societies, colleges, and academies in this country, after they have been 
submitted to scientific investigation and duly assorted and labeled. 

At the last session of Congress an appropriation was made of $12,000 
for the continuance of an exploration of the region of the Colorado of 
the \Yest and its tributaries, by Professor J. W. Powell, to be expended 
under the direction of the Smithsonian Institution. The region here 
mentioned is one of the most interesting in a geological point of view 
of almost any in this or any other countr3-. The Colorado of the West 
and its tributaries traverse chasms in some places over a mile below the 
general surface of the country, and present in different ])laces at one 
view sections of the principal members of the known geological for- 
mations of the continent of North America. The region surveyed 
lies between the 35th and 31)th parallels of latitude, and the 100th 
and 115th meridians of west longitude. It includes the headwaters 
of the Uintah, the Price, the San liafael, the Paira, the Kanab, and the 
Virgin liivers, the lower i^ortion of the Grand, and a part of the 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 27 

Colonido. lu the year 1870 a general lecoiiDai.ssauce of the country 
had been made, and several routes through it explored from Salt Lake 
City to the Green and Colorado Elvers, and depositaries of supplies estab- 
lished. The operations of Professor Powell and party under his com- 
mand in 1871, consisted, first, in an exploration of the Green Eiver from 
the point where it is crossed by the track of the Union Pacific Railway 
to its junction with the Grand, or where the union of these rivers forms 
the Colorado of the West, and the exploration of this to the mouth of 
the Paira ; second, the establishment of a base-line in the valley of the 
Kanab, from which a system of triangles was extended westward to the 
valley of the Virgin Eiver, southward and eastward to the Colorado, 
and northward to the Paira ; third, a geological survey of the region, 
and the collection -of a series of specimens of geology and mineralogy; 
fourth, an ethnological study of the Indians of the region, including 
their mythology, manners and customs, means of subsistence, language, 
&c., together with a full collection of all their implements and articles of 
manufacture. The explorations and surveys of Professor Powell have 
furnished additions to our knowledge of a portion of our public domain 
previously but very imperfectly known, which, together with the extensive 
series of specimens which he haS added to the collections of the Institu- 
tion and the National Museum, fully repay the appropriation which was 
made from the national Treasury on this account. I have certified to 
this effect to Congress, and respectfully commend the application of 
Professor Powell for an additional appropriation to complete the survey. 
The alleged decrease of the food-fishes of the coast and lakes of the 
United States led to the passage of a law at the last session of Con- 
gress, directing the President to appoint a commissioner of fish and fish- 
eries, for the purpose of making inquiries upon the subject. Professor 
Baird, assistant secretary of this Institution, whose attention has been 
directed for some time both to the scientific and economical relation- 
ships of the fishes, received the appointment, and proceeded in June 
last to Wood's Hole, a convenient point on the Massachusetts coast, 
from which to prosecute his inquiries. With the aid of an appropria- 
tion from Congress, and facilities afforded by various departments of 
the Government, he was enabled to carry on an extended research 
during a period of several months. In this work he had the special 
co-operation of Professors Yerrill and Smith, of Yale College, in the 
investigation of the invertebrate fauna of the coast in its relation to the 
food-fishes; of Professor Gill, of Washington, in the study of fishes 
themselves; and of Professor Hyatt, of the Boston Society of Natural 
History, Professor Jenks, of Middleborough, Dr. A. S. Packard, jr., of 
Salem, and W. G. Farlow, of Cambridge, in other branches of the 
investigation. Among other gentlemen interested in the researches, who 
visited Wood's Hole during the season, were Professor L. Agassiz, Pro- 
fessor J. Gwyu Jeffreys, of England, Colonel Lyman, Professor D. C. 
Eaton, Professor W. H. Brewer, Professor J. H. Trumbull, and Professor 



28 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

W. D. Whitney. "With this corps of helpers it was quite possible to 
make a very thorough exploration of everything connected with the 
general economical and natural history of the fauna of the waters on 
the southern coast of New England ; and while Professor Baird and 
some of his party were engaged in visiting different parts of the coast and 
taking testimony as to the actual condition of the fisheries, others of the 
party were occupied in trawling, dredging, and in otherwise collecting 
the various inhabitants of the sea. 

A large amount of information was gathered which will have an impor- 
tant bearing upon the objects of the commission, and of which Professor 
Baird will present a report in full to Congress at an early date. The inquir- 
ies include numerous observations in regard to currents, temiieratures, 
distribution of life at different depths, &c. The collections made during 
the exploration were very extensive, embracing a full series of all the 
fishes of the coast, as well as of the invertebrates, from which sets will 
be made up for distribution by the Institution. Among other results of 
the expedition should be mentioned a series of nearly three hundred 
photographs of a large size, representing all the fishes found, in their 
various stages of growth, the whole constituting an almost unique col- 
lection of portraits, and especially important as relating to the larger 
fishes, like the sharks, rays, sturgeons, tunny s, sword-fish, &c. 

Dr. Hayden, in the jirosecutiou of his researches as United States 
geologist for the Territories, gathered very large collections of miner- 
als, skins of mammals and birds, eggs, &c., filling forty-five boxes, 
illustrative of the natural history of Montana, and of the region about 
the head-waters of the Yellowstone, a report of which he has presented 
to the Secretary of the Interior. This exploration has excited a great 
degree of interest on account of the wonderful series of geysers and 
remarkable scenery, of which it has furnished an authentic description. 
Indeed such has been the interest manifested in the Yellowstone dis- 
trict that a proposition, originally made by Mr. Catlin as early as 1832, 
has been revived and presented to Congress, to reserve the country 
around these geysers as a public park. It is thought this proposition 
will be adopted by the Government ; and if so, we doubt not that in 
time the Yellowstone region will become a favorite resort for travelers 
from every part of the world. 

After reserving a full set of the specimens for the irrational Museum 
the duplicates of Hayden's collections will be made up into sets for dis- 
tribution. 

Among the persons to whom the obligations of the Institution are 
particularly due for the magnitude and variety of contribution of speci- 
mens we should mention Mrs. John M. McMinn. She gave the 
valuable herbarium described in the last report, and has since pre- 
sented the entire collection of objects of natural history belonging to 
her late husband, who was for many years a correspondent of the In- 
stitution. This gentleman had accumulated large numbers of minerals, 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 29 

fossils, plants, &c., which filled tweuty-six boxes, aiul were presented 
to tlie Institution to be used as it might deem best for the interest of 
science. Many of the specimens are duplicates, but are valuable as 
material for distribution. 

To Mr. George A. Boardman the Institution is indebted for extensive 
collections of birds and skeletons from Florida, and also three complete 
skeletons of the moose from Kova Scotia. 

To his son, Mr. Charles A. Boardman, and to Mr. S. W. Smith we 
owe acknowledgments for fine specimens of the moose and caribou. 

Dr. Yarrow, assistant surgeon United States Army, Fort Macon, 
North Carolina, h'as sent a large collection of skulls and skeletons of 
the porpoises of the southern coast, as well as many Indian relics, 
fishes, shells, &c. 

From Professor Sumichrast we have received additional collections of 
birds, reptiles, &c., illustrative of the natural history of Tehuautepec. 
The name of this gentleman has frequently been mentioned in previous 
reports as a large contributor to the Smithsonian Collections. 

Captain Charles Bryant, in charge of the fur-seal islands of Alaska, 
has contributed full series of skins, skulls, and skeletons of seals, 
walrus, &c., abounding in that region. 

To the Army Medical Museum the Institution is indebted, as hereto- 
fore, for numerous specimens in ethnology and natural history, in ac- 
cordance with an arrangement made several years ago, by which, in 
consideration of the transfer to it from the Institution of human crania, 
all other objects of an anthropological character received by that mu- 
seum were to be placed in the Smithsonian Collection. 

Some interesting specimens have also been received from the Depart- 
ment of Agriculture under a similar arrangement of exchange. 

Dr. Destruges has contributed the skeleton of a sloth, and Mr. Henry 
Hague that of a Guatemalan tapir ; Professor Poey a skeleton, and Dr. 
Gundlach a specimen in alcohol of solenodon, a rare insectivorous 
mammal of Cuba ; Mr. Hernberg and Colonel Gibson, skeletons of 
buffalo ; Mr. Isaac H. Taylor, of Boston, crania of South African mam- 
mals; Captain Scammon, of the United States revenue-service, skulls 
of whales and other cetaceans. 

xVlthough but few birds have been received, some valuable specimens 
from Yeragua were contributed by Mr. Salvin ; from Brazil, by Mr. 
Albuquerque; from Buenos Ayres, from the national museum under the 
charge of Professor Baumeister ; from Labrador, from C. G. Brewster. 

Mr. Strachan Jones has furnished a number of eggs from the Lower 
Slave Lake, and Mr. Charles li. Bree specimens of eggs of the Larus 
gelastcs from Turkey. 

The reptiles received have been principally specimens gathered by 
the naturalists of the Tehuautepec and Darien expedition. 

Fine specimens of the celebrated Eozoon canadense have been re- 



30 REPOKT OF THE SECRETARY. 

ceived from IVIr. E. Billings, of Canada, and Dr. Josiah Curtis, of 
Chelmsford, Massachusetts. 

Mr. Brittan lias contributed Permian fossils from Kansas ; Mr. U. P. 
James, a series of Ohio Lower Silurian fossils ; Mr. S. A. Miller, fossils 
from Ohio, and a fossil tree-trunk of the geims Psaronius ; Mr. U. M. 
Shafer, Lower Silurian fossils. 

Specimens of woods have been presented by Mr. George Davidson, of 
the Coast Survey ; of birds, reptiles, and fishes, from Illinois, by Mr. E. 
Eidgeway ; fishes, reptiles, and vertebrates, by W. H. Clarke, of the 
Tehuantepec expedition. 

As usual, the amount of material received from the Old World ismuch 
less than that from our own continent, the most noteworthy being a col- 
lection of specim ens in alcohol, presented by the museum of Bergen, in 
Norway. 

Mr. Knudsen has sent a collection of human crania from the Sand- 
wich Islands. The museum of Wellington, i^ew Zealand, under the 
charge of Dr. Hector, has presented casts of the eggs of the Dinornis 
and Apterijx, with casts of bones of the former animal, and various 
ethnological objects. 

To Mr. Genio Scott, and to Messrs. Middleton & Carman, of New 
York, the Institution is indebted for specimens of Oyhium cahalla, or 
Cero, a food-fish but lately indicated as occurring on our coast. The 
museum at Bergen has also supplied a number of fishes peculiar to the 
coast of Norway. 

All the specimens of ethnology and natural history, not at present on 
exhibition in the public museum, are now stored in the west basement, 
and the various operations connected with unjiacking, labeling, clean- 
ing, assorting, poisoning, etc., have been transferred to that part of the 
building. The necessity of making this transfer in a limited space of 
time involved considerable derangement of the si)ecimens, and much time 
has been occupied during the fall and winter in re-arranging them. This 
work, however, is in great measure accomplished; and Professor 
Baird, with assistants, is now occupied in assorting and classifying the 
material for the purpose of selecting duplicates to be distributed for the 
advance of science. A very extensive distribution of specimens has been 
made during the year, partly in the way of giving general series for 
educational purposes to colleges, academies, and scientific institutions, 
and partly in the way of exchanges with the principal museums at home 
and abroad. The amount of work done in the distribution of specimens 
will be shown in the following table : 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

Distribution of di(j)Ucate specimens to the end 0/1871. 



31 



Class. 



Skeletons and skulls 

Mammals 

Birds 

Reptiles 

Fishes 

Eggs of birds 

Shells 

Radiates 

Crustaceans 

Marine invertebrates. 

Plants and packages of seeds. 

Fossils 

Minerals and rocks 

Ethnological specimens 

Insects 

Diatomaceous earths 



Distribution in 1871. 



Species. 



Total 



111 



410 
100 



151 
,534 



000 
151 
000 
152 
204 
1 



Specini's. 



156 
40 
477 
100 
100 
304 
3, 000 



4,000 
151 

1,400 
152 
204 



,881 



10, 139 



Total to the end 
of 1871. 



Species. 



941 

22, 940 

1,841 

2, 477 

C, 606 

83,712 

583 

1,078 

1,838 

18, 503 

4,109 

4,630 

1,295 

1, 836 

29 



Specini's. 



152, 743 



827 

1,822 

35, 428 

2,970 

5,311 

16, 698 

186. 157 

778 

2,650 

5,152 

25, 003 

10, 135 

9,974 

1,342 

3,150 

623 



308, 080 



As lieretofore, a great amount of labor has been expended in cata- 
loguing- the specimens received, their enumeration having been carried 
forward from 1G1,700 to 109,750, the increase representing about the 
average of the last ten years. 

As in previous years, the collections of the Institution have been placed 
freely at the service of naturalists in this country and Europe, and large 
uumbers of specimens are now in the hands of collaborators. Among 
these may be mentioned Dr. Elliott Coues, assistant surgeon, United 
States Army, who has undertaken a critical revision of a special family 
of Rodents of North America. This group is very extensive, embracing 
numerous genera and species differing entirely from the corresponding 
families in the Old World. The large amount of material we have placed 
in the hands of Dr. Coues will enable him to solve many interesting 
questions as to the geographical distribution and zoological affinities of 
the family in question. Dr. Coues' memoir on this group will be pub- 
lished by the Institution, and series of type specimens will be distributed 
to otber museums. To Professor Cope have been intrusted, as before, 
the collections of reptiles, and other material has been furnished to 
Professor Leidy, Professor Marsh, Professor Agassiz, Dr. Stimpson, and 
others. Type specimens of American birds have been sent to Messrs. 
Sclater, Salvin, and Dresser, of London, for use by them in the prepa- 
ration of descriptive worts. 



32 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

lu accortlauce with tbe same policy a few years ago the alcoholic in- 
vertebrates were intrusted to Dr. Stimpsou of the Chicago Academy 
of Sciences for study and distribution into sets of duplicates. Unfor- 
tunately, however, this collection, although deposited in a building 
sui)posed to be fire-proof, was destroyed in the disastrous fire of 1871. 
The misfortune was not alone coufined to the loss of the specimens, 
but included also the results of years of labor of Dr. Stimpsou, the 
great object of his scientific life, the publication of which was looked 
forward to with interest by all engaged in the study of natural history. 

The etJmolo f/ical specimens collected by the Institution to illustrate 
the arts, manners, and customs of the present Indians and the more 
ancient inhabitants of the American continent, are unsurpassed in 
number and variety, and are constantly increased by special efforts 
in the way of correspondence and small appropriations for explorations. 
The greatest additions to the collections received during the past year 
have been in this department, an account of some.of the more important 
of which will be of interest. 

From Captain C. F. Hall, the intrepid explorer, now, we trust, success- 
fully prosecuting his researches in northern Greenland, we have received 
the entire series of relics of Sir John Franklin, obtained by Captain 
Hall during his last visit to the north, as also the relics of the Fro- 
bisher expedition, which wintered on Frobisher Bay several hundred 
years ago. To these were added a number of specimens illustrative of 
the habits and manners of the Esquimau^, and showing their relation- 
ship to, as well as their differences from, a corresponding series belong- 
ing to the Esquimaux of the Mackenzie's Elver region, furnished to the 
Institution by Mr. R. McFarlane and some of his colleagues of the Hud- 
son's Bay service. 

From the northwest coast of North America specimens have been 
furnished by Mr. George Gibbs, illustrating many points in the ethnol- 
ogy of the savage tribes ; and specimens of dresses from Mr. Jos. T. 
Dyer. 

Lieutenant Ring has sent specimens obtained from graves in Alaska 
and in British Columbia. Dr. Yates, of California, has added to his 
previous donations large Indian mortars and the crania obtained from 
sundry mounds. 

Dr. Palmer collected for the Institution a very interesting series of 
stone implements from ancient ruins in Arizona, and Major Powell has 
furnished a full series of the implements, utensils, dresses, &:c., of the 
Indians of the valley of the Colorado. Dr. Irwin, of the Army, has 
also added to this series. 

From Colorado Territory we have specimens from Dr. Berthoud, indi- 
cating, in his opinion, an antiquitj' of the human race in that region 
■far beyond that usually ascribed to it. 

Additions from New ^lexico are represented by specimens of blankets 
and other manufactures of tbe Navajo Indians; as also by a loom contain- 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 66 

iug a part of an iinfiuislied blauket, showing the mode of weaving-, 
presented by Governor Amy. 

A series of bone implements of remarlcable character, and different 
from any we had previously possessed, together with other interesting 
objects from ancient graves in Michigan, have been presented by Dr. 
Irwin. 

Mr. Audrew^s has contributed stone implements and other objects 
from Tennessee f Mr. J. Fisher, very interesting copper implements, and 
Mr. Peter, stone objects from Kentucky. Eev. D. Thompson and Mr. 
Clark have furnished stone implements from Ohio. IMr. Ilotchkiss, of 
Louisiana, has furnished a remarkable series of stone lances and knives, 
some of them being of very great length and of beautiful finish. Mr. 
Keeuan, of Mississippi, has supplied a variety of Indian implements. 

From Georgia we have an extensive collection made by the late Col- 
onel Floyd, and kindly presented by his heirs through the mediation of 
Colonel McAdoo ; and from Messrs. W. and A. F. McKinley, a general 
ethnological collection of great value. The accessions from Florida are 
(juite numerous, but the most important consist of a series of imple- 
ments and crania from the mounds near Sarasota, presented by Mr. J. 
G. Webb. Among these are broken fragments of skulls, completely 
silicified, and (piite unique in this respect. Ilev. J. Fowler, of aSTew 
Brunswick, has supplied a valuable collection gathered in his vicinity. 
From Mexico we have received a collection of ancient vases of remark- 
able beauty, deposited by ]Mrs. General Alfred Gibbs ; and another col- 
lection of a similar character, presented by the Natural History Museum 
of Mexico ; as also some by Dr. Peuafiel, one of its ofdcers. 

Mr. Riotte has furnished an interesting series of diminutive figures, 
dressed to rei)reseut the costumes of the aborigines of Guatemala. 

Dr. Flint, of Nicaragua, has sent various specimens of ancient pottery 
obtained near Omatope, and similar articles have been recei^■ed from 
Dr. Van Patten, obtained in Costa Eica. 

From Peru the most interesting accessions are two mummies from a 
burial-place at Arica, accompanied by various articles, presented by 
Mr. Henry Meiggs, the well-known railway engineer of South America. 
From Brazil we have received a series of the bows and arrows used b}' 
the natives of that country, and presented by Mr. Albuquerque. 

Among the most important additions to the collections should be men 
tioned a large number of Lacustrian implements from Switzerland, from 
Professor Pagenstecker, of Heidelberg, Mr. Messikomer, of Zurich, and 
Professor Rutimeyer, of Basle. The latter gentleman has also added an 
extensive series, properly identified and labeled, of tiie various kinds of 
domestic animals used by the builders of the lake dwellings. 

An interesting collection was in^esented by Mr. di Cesuola, United 

States consul to Cyprus, embracing numerous specimens of pottery 

obtained by him in his excavations in the site of the ancient Idalium. 

Some of these are believed to be purelv Phoenician in their character, 

3s 71 



34 EEPORT OF TUB SECRETARY. 

and otbers of a later date, all of tbem characterized by groat beauty and 
size. 

One of the most interesting additions to the department of ethnology 
is the cast of the Tanis stone, on which is a trilingual inscription re- 
cently obtained from some excavations made at Tanis, on the eastern or 
Pelusiac branch of the Nile, and belonging to the museum of Egyp- 
tian antiquities at Cairo. The original is a block six feet high, two and 
a half feet broad, and a foot thick, with the top arched. One side is 
occupied partly by hieroglyphic inscriptions, together with a Greek 
translation of the same, while a portion of the left side is occupied with an 
equivalent inscription in the Demotic character. This stone occupies a 
position in Egyptology similar to that of the " Rosetta stone," except 
that it is much more perfect, and will probably aid much in deciphering 
the hieroglyphics. The cast was taken by the instrumentality of Dr. 
Lansing for presentation to Monmouth College, Illinois, but at his re- 
quest and that of Mr. S. H. Scudder, and by permission of the authori- 
ties of that college, it was sent to the Institution to be copied. Unfor- 
tunately, it was very much broken in the transit, and required patient 
labor on the part of a skillful modeler to restore it to anything like its 
original condition. When this is accomplished a mold and casts will 
be taken, and the original sent to the college. In this connection we 
may mention that the inscriptions on the stone have been carefully 
studied by Dr. G. Seyffarth, an eminent Egyptologist, who visited 
Washington for the i)urpose, and will present a paper on the subject to 
the Institution, for publication. 

Correspondence. — As we feave said in previous reports, a very large 
amount of labor is devoted to correspondence. Beside those relating 
to the ordinary business of the establishment, hundreds of letters are 
received during the year containing inquiries on various subjects on 
which the writer desires information, and also many memoirs which are 
presented for i)ublication. Among the former a large number are re- 
ceived from the five hundred meteorological observers who furnish, vol- 
untarily, records of the weather, and who require frequent explanation 
of special phenomena. Among the papers submitted for publication 
are a large number containing speculations in reference to science which 
in many instances exhibit great industry and profound thought on the 
part of their authors, but which, nevertheless, cannot be considered as 
j)ositive additions to knowledge founded on original research, and which, 
therefore, in accordance with the rules adopted by the Institution, can- 
not be accepted for pul>lication. On account of the wide ditfusion of 
elementary edu{;ation in the United States, and the general taste for read- 
ing among all classes, there isnoother part of the world, perhaps, in which 
there exists a greater ditt'usion of elementary scientific knowledge, and, 
l)erhaps, more activity of mind directed in the line of scientilic thought. 
Much, however, of this, from a want of proper training, and the means 
of exi)eriment and observation to verify deductions from a priori con- 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 35 

ceptions, is nnproductive of positive results. The Institution does not dis- 
card antecedent speculations provided deductions from tliem are made in 
the form of new results wliicli are verified by actual phenomena. It is not 
enough that a new hypothesis may give a general explanation of a clnss 
of phenomena in order that it may be adopted ; it must do more than 
this. It must point out new fiicts and phenomena which can be readily 
exhibited by experiment or verified by observation. Such advances 
have been made in physical science within the last two hundred years 
that most of the phenomena which lie, as it were, on the face of nature, 
have been studied and referred to general principles. In order, there- 
fore, to make advances, in general physics, at least, apparatus, as well 
as training in the use of it, is essential to scientific research ; and as but 
few, comparative!}', possess the advantages of these, it rarely happens 
that investigations of much importance result from the speculations of 
the kind we have mentioned. In the line of mathematics, however, 
which requires no extraneous aid, and of natural history, in the study 
of which objects are everywhere presented, results of importance may 
be derived from the labors of isolated individuals who have no other 
assistance than books. 

As a means of adult education, it may be remarked that from the 
first the Institution has encouraged the establishment of lyceums and 
scientific associations in all parts of the country, and as the number of 
these has constantly increased, they have added to our correspondence, 
and much more largely during the past year than during- any one in the 
history of the Institution. 

Miscellaneous items. — In 1SG3 Congress incorporated an association, 
under the name of the National Academy of Sciences, which should inves- 
tigate, examine, experiment, and report upon any subject of science or 
art on which information might be required by any department of Gov- 
ernment. Thougli this society was in no way connected with the Smith- 
sonian Institution in its inception and organization, yet it is accommo- 
dated with rooms for its meetings in the Smithsonian building, and com- 
munications which are adopted by it are accepted for publication by 
the Institution. 

A series of scientific inquiries has been referred to this society by 
difierent departments of Government, and the investigations in regard 
to them have principally-' been made under direction of members of the 
academy in this Institution. The organization of the scientific depart- 
ment of the North Polar Expedition under Captain Hall was intrusted 
by Congress to the National Academy, and the procuring of the instru- 
ments and the organization of the scientific corps were principally 
effected in connection with the Smithsonian Institution. A copy of 
the scientific instructions will be found in the appendix to this report. 

In the law organizing the Light-House Board it is declared that it 
shall consist of two officers of the Army of high grade, two officers of 
the Navj', and two civilians of scientific reputation, whose services 



36 EEPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

might be at the disposal of the President of the United States, to- 
gether with an officer of the Navy to act as naval secretary, and an 
officer of the Corps of Engineers of the Armj^, as engineer secretary. 
From the commencement of the board to the present time, the mem- 
bers from civil life have been the Snperintendeut of the Coast Survey 
and the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution. During the whole pe- 
riod I have occupied the position of chairman of the committee on experi- 
ments, and have, with the exception of the summer I was in Europe, 
devoted my vacations to investigations relative to lighting-materials, 
fog-signals, and other duties connected with tlie light-house service. In 
October, 1871, on the retirement of Admiral Shubrick and the ordering 
of Admiral Jenkins to the charge of the East India squadron, I, being the 
oldest member, was elected chairman of the board. For the discharge 
of the duties of this position, in addition to the time of my summer 
vacation, I have made arrangements for devoting one day in each week. 
It is proper to observe that my office as a member of the Light-House 
Board, although one of much responsibility, and to which I have, during 
the last eighteen years, devoted a large amount of labor, is accompanied 
with no salary, the expense of traveling and subsistence being defrayed 
by an allowance of ten cents per mile. 

The services which have been rendered to the Government by tlie 
Institution from its commencement to the present time are deserving 
of recognition. They include not only those connected with the 
"N^ational Academy, the Light-House Board, investigations now being 
carried on relative to fishes, the care of the Government collections, 
the organization of the natural history portions of the various exploring 
expeditions, the series of investigations made during the war, but also an- 
swers to tlie constant applications from members of Congress for infor- 
mation on special subjects. In no case has the Secretary or his assistants 
received any remuneration for labors thus performed. 

In this connection I may mention that on the occasi<Mi of my visit to 
Europe in the summer of 1S70 I was honored by the President of the 
United States with an appointment to represent this country at a meet- 
ing of an international commission, invited by the Lvte Emperor of 
France, to consider the best means of multiplying copies for distribution 
of the original meter preserved in the archives of the government at 
Paris. Unfortunately, before the time of meeting arrived, in August, 
the Franco German war commenced, preventing the attendance of a 
number of commissioners who would otherwise have been present. 
On this account it was resolved to permanently adopt no definite 
proposition in regard to the meter, but merely to discuss the various 
questions which might be connected with the general subject. The 
commission remained in session from the 8th to the 1-lth of August, 
and adjourned to meet again at a more favorable season. 

The Institution has taken much inti^rcst in the historical phenomenon 
of the movement in Japan in regard to the adoption of western civilization. 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 37 

A full set of tlie publicatious of the Institution has been presented to the 
University of Yedo, and arrangements made with it for obtaining meteoro- 
logical observations and specimens of arcbueology and natural history. 
A special request was made by the Institution in behalf of the Ja}>- 
anese ^Minister, Mr. Mori, of the principal publishers of school-books in 
the United States for such of their [)ublications on education as they 
nught see fit to present for examination to the Japanese commission. 
In response to this application acknowledgments are due, for liberal 
donations, to the following publishers : 1), Appleton »& Co. ; A. S. 
Barnes & Co.; Brewer & Tilestou ; E. II. Butler & Co.; Claxtou, 
Bemsen & Haffellinger; E. S. Davis & Co.; Eldredge & Bro.; W. 
S. Fortescue; Harper Bros.; Ilolt »& Williams; Houghton tS: Co.; 
Ivison, Blakeman, Taylor & Co.; J. B. Lippiucott & Co.; Henry C. 
Lea ; G. & C. Merriam ; Murphy & Co. ; Oakley, ]Masou & Co. ; J. ^Y. 
Schermerhorn & Co. ; C. Scribner & Co. ; Sheldon & Co. ; Sower, Barnes 
& Potts; Thompson, Bigelow & Brown; University Publishing Com- 
pany; Wilson, Hinkle & Co.; Woolworth, Ainsworth & Co. 

While the Smithsonian Institution occupies ground otherwise uncul- 
tivated, it has been its policy from the begining to co-operate with ail 
other institutions in advancing science and promoting education. There 
must always exist objects of importance for the promotion of which 
appropriations cannot be immediately obtained from Congress, 
and which, without aid, cannot be properly prosecuted. In England 
such objects to a limited extent are assisted by funds derived from 
the subscription list of members of the British Association, and by an 
annual grant from the government to the lioyal Society. These appro- 
priations, though producing important results, are far from being ade- 
quate to the solution of problems, the number and variety of which 
are constantly increasing. When we consider the intimate connection 
of a knowledge of abstract science with modern civiiization, the effect 
which it has had in substituting the powers of nature for slave labor, in 
the discovery of lawsaknowledgeof which enables man topredict,andin 
many cases to control, the future, it must be evident that nothing c-an 
better mark the high intelligence of a people than the facilities which they 
afford and the means they provide for promoting investigations in this line. 
It is a matter of surprise, however, that so imperfectly is the import- 
ance of abstract science appreciated by the public generally, that un- 
less it be immediately applied to some practical purpose in the arts it 
is almost entirely disregarded, 

NATIONAL MUSEU3I. 

An appropriation during the last two years has been made by Con- 
gress of 8l!U,(]00 for the reconstruction of parts of the building destroyed 
by the fire,. and the fitting up of rooms for the better accommodation of 
the National ^Museum. This sum, together with about .'^U,OUO from the 



38 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

income of tlie Sinitlisouiau fuud,lias beeu devoted duriug the past year 
to til is purpose. 

With a view to tbe ultimate separation of the operations of the 
Smithsonian Institution from the National Museum, arrangements have 
been made for appropriating tlie east wing and range to the business 
which may be considered as belonging exclusively to the essential 
objects of the Institution, and devoting the main building, west wing, 
and towers to the museum. For this purpose the large room on the 
tirst floor of the east wing, which was formerly used as a museum- 
laboratory and store-room, has been fitted up with bins and conven- 
iences for assorting and packing the literary and scientific exchanges to 
be sent to foreign countries. Prepai-ation has also been made for re- 
moving the chemical laboratory from the first floor of the east range to 
the space immediately below it in the basement, and for applying the 
whole of the first floor of this part of the building to the business offices 
of the Secretary and his assistants in the line of what are called the 
active operations. 

For the special accommodation of the museum the large room in the 
west wing, formerly occupied by the library, has been prepared for the 
reception of cases for mineralogical and geological specimens ; while the 
great hall, 200 feet by 50, in the second story of the main building, has 
been comjtleted and is now ready to receive the cases for the anthro- 
X)ological and other specimens. 

Estimates are ]iow before Congress for fitting up these rooms with 
cases for the recei)tion and display of the Government collections; and 
it is hoped that, in the next report, we shall be able to chronicle the com- 
mencement, if not the completion, of the work. 

Tlie changes consequent upon the extension of the museum mentioned 
made a re-arrangement necessary of the greater part of the basement so 
as to obtain additional security against fire, and greatercouvenienceforthe 
storage of fuel, packing-boxes, and specimens. A floor was laid through 
the basement, and new passage-ways opened, furnishing better access 
from one extreme of the building to the other. In introducing the fire- 
proof floor into the west wing, advantage was taken of the opportunity 
to increase the height of the room below it, and to convert it and the 
adjoining rooms in th<i west range into laboratories and store-rooms for 
natural history. 

Furthermore, for better security, the fire-])roofing of the floors of the 
four towers on the corners of the main building has been commenced. 
The rooms in the towers iurnish studies and dormitories for the inves- 
tigators in the line of natural history wlio resort to the Institution, 
especially during the winter, to enjoy the use of the library and the 
collections for special researches. 

The Norman style of architecture adopted for the Smithsonian build- 
ing produces a picturesque effect, and, on this account, the edifice has 
been much admired. It is, however, as I h.ive frequently before 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. d'd 

remarked, one of the most expensive buildings in proportion to its in- 
terior capjicity which could have well been devised; exi)ensive notouly 
in its first construction, but also in the repairs which are continually 
required to protect it from the inHuence of the weather, which is obvi- 
ous when the number of projections, towers, and exposed angles is 
considered. 

The building, which from the first has been a drain on the Smithsou 
funds, still requires an appropriation for heatingap]:)aratus, and for 
annual repairs, which, in justice to the bequest, we trust will be i)rovided 
by Congress. 

For defraying the expenses of the care and exhibition of the National 
Museum, Congress has annually, for the last two years, appropriated 
810,000. Although this appro[)riation was more than double that of 
previous 3'ears, still it fell short of the actual expenditure. The amount 
of items chargeable to the museum during the ]>ast year, independent 
of the rent which might have been charged for the rooms occupied, or 
for repairs of the building, was a little more than 813,000. Deducting 
from this sum the $10,000 approi)riated by Congress, and there re- 
remains 83,000, which was paid from the income of the Smithson fund. 

A statement of this deficiency has been presented to Congress, and 
we trust that the sum of 8l'">,000 will be ap[)ropriated for the sauie 
purpose for the ensuing fiscal year. 

By the completion of the large room in the second story and the 
appropriation of the west wing and connecting range to the same pur- 
pose, the space allotted to the museum iu the Smithson building has 
been increased to about threefold. It is proposed, as was stated in the 
last report, to devote the room in the west wing to specimens of geology 
and mineralogy, and the large room in the second story to specimens of 
arcbieology and paUeontology. As preparatory to the fitting up of 
these rooms, a sei'ies of designs has been prepared at the expense of 
the Institution by B. AYaterhouse Ilawkins, the well-known restorer of 
the ancient animals which illustrate the paUeontology of the Sydenham 
Palace, near Loudon. 

A commencement has also been made in the furnishing of the large 
room with casts of some of the larger extinct animals. 

The cast of a skeleton of the Megatherium cuvleri, generously pre- 
sented by Professor 11. A. Ward, of Rochester, has been set up iu the 
middle of the room. This gigantic fossil was first made known to 
the scientific world in 1789. It was discovered on the banks of the 
river Luxan, near the city of Buenos Ayres, and was subsequently 
transmitted to 3Iadrid. The original bones, of which this s])ecimen is 
a copy, were found in the same Pami)ean deposit, between the years 
1831 and 1838, and belong partly to the Hunterian Museum of the Poyal 
College of Surgeons, and partly to the British Museum. Cuvier, who gave 
it its generic title, thought it combined the character of the sloth, 



40 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

ant-eater, ami armadillo. Professor Owen lias, however, shown that the 
Megatherium was a " ground-sloth," feeding on the foliage of trees, 
which it uprooted by its great strength. The extreme length of the 
mounted skeleton is 17 feet ; its height from the pedestal to the top 
of the spinous i^rocess of the first dorsal vertebra is 10 feet G inches. 
The length of the skull is 30 inches ; the circumference of the skeleton 
at the eighth rib is 11 feet. 

Also in association with the 3IcgatJierium a cast has been placed in the 
same room of the Colossochehjs atlas, a gigantic tortoise, a restoration 
from fragments discovered in the Miocene strata of the Sewalik Hills, 
India, and now in the museum of the Asiatic Society of Bengal. It is 
8 feet 2 inches in length by 5 feet 10 in width. 

In addition to this, there has been set up a cast of the Gli/ptodon, a 
representative in Pleistocene times of the armadillos of South Amer- 
ica, the original of which was found in 1810, near Montevideo, on the 
banks of the Luxan. It was presented by ordev of the Dictator Ptosas 
to Vice- Admiral Dupolet, who gave it to the museum of his native cit^', 
Dijon, France, where it is still preserved. 

The two last-mentioned specimens were purchased from Professor 
Ward. 

The basis of the national museum is the collection of specimens 
of the United States exploring expedition under Captain, now Ad- 
miral, Wilkes, originally deposited in the Patent Office. It was trans- 
ferred to the Institution in 1858, and since then has been very much 
increased by the type specimens from upward of fifty subse- 
quent expeditious of the General Government, and contributions re- 
sulting from the operations of the institution. The character of the 
inuseum will be properly exhibited for the first time after the various 
articles are displayed in the new rooms now in preparation for their 
reception. The museum is especially rich in specimens to illustrate 
the subject of anthropology ; and it is proposed to bring these as far as 
possible together in the new room in the second story, and to arrange 
them so as to exhibit their connection and to illustrate the gradual pro- 
gress of the development of the arts of civilized life. 

At present a portion of the large room in the second story is used 
for the exhibition of the cartoons or original sketches made by the cel- 
ebrated Indian traveler and explorer Mr. George Catlin. The object 
of this exhibition is to induce the Government to purchase the whole 
collection of Indian paintings, including sketches and portraits, there- 
suit of the labors of upward of forty years of this enthusiastic and 
indefatigable student of Indian life. The entire collection, which com- 
prises about twelve hundred paintings and sketches, was offered by Mr. 
Catlin to the Government in 184G, and its purchase was advocated by 
Mr. Webster, Mr. Poinsett, General Cass, and other statesmen, as well 
as by the principal artists and scholars of the country. A report 
recommending its purchase was made by the Joint Committee on the 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 41 

Library of Congress, but, owing to tlic absorption of public attention 
by the Mexican war, no appropriation was made for the purpose. 
Mr. Catlin made no further efforts at the time, but exhibited liis 
pictures in Europe, wliere, on account of an unfortunate specuhition 
into whicli he was knl in Loudon, claims were brought against theiu 
which he had not the means to satisfy. " xVt this crisis, fortunately, ]Mr. 
Joseph Harrison, of Philadelphia, a gentleman of wealth and patriot- 
ism, desiring to save the collection for our country, advanced the means 
for paying off the claims against the pictures and shipped them to Phil- 
adelphia, where they have since remained unredeemed. Mr. Catlin, 
however, retained possession of the cartoons, and has since enriched 
them with a large number of illustrations of the ethnology of South 
America, Whatever may be thought of these paintings from an 
artistic point of view, they are certainly of great value as faithful 
representations of the person, features, manners, customs, implements, 
superstitious, festivals, and everything which relates to the ethno- 
logical characteristics of the primitive inhabitants of our country. We 
think that there is a general public sentiment in lavor of granting 
the moderate a[)propriation asked for by Mr. Catlin, and ^Ye trust that 
Congress will not fail at the next session to act in accordance with this 
feeling. It is the only general collection of the kind in existence, and 
any one who has given thought to the subject cannot but sympathize 
with Mr. Catlin, who, in his old age and after a life of hard labor and 
the devotion of all that he possessed in the world to its formation, is 
now anxious to obtain the means to redeem the portion of his collection 
retained as secnrity for the payment of claims against him, for the 
means to enable him to finish the sketches that are still incomplete, 
and to secure the whole from dispersion throngh their purchase by the 
Government. 

Eespectfully submitted. 

JOSEPH HENPY. 

Washington, Januan/, 1S72. 



APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 



Tabic sjioiring tltc entries in the rccord-hook.H of the Smithsonian Museum at the end of the 

years 1870 and 1871. 



Class. 



Up to the eucl 
of 1870. 



Up to the end 
of 1871. 



Skeletons ami skulls 

Mammals 

Birds 

Reptiles 

Fishes 

Eggs 

Ciustaceans 

Mollusks 

Radiates 

Annelids 

Fossils 

Minerals 

Ethnological specimens. 
Plants 



11, 

9, 

61, 



15, 

1, 

22, 



7, 
10, 



512 
773 
150 
535 

897 
671 
287 
345 
730 
100 
380 
1.54 
000 
175 



12, 0.59 
9, 849 

61,2.')0 
7,536 
7, 983 

15, 986 
1,287 

24, 792 

2, 730 

100 

7, 697 

7,160 

10, 931 
390 



Total 



164, 709 



169, 750 



Total entries during the year 5, 041 

Approximate table of distribution of duplicate sjxcimens to the end of 1871. 



Class. 


Distribution to the 
end of 1870. 


Distrihntiou in 
1871. 


Total. 




Species. 


Specimens. 


Species. 


Specimens. 


Species. 


Specimens. 


Skeletons and skulls. 

Mammals 

Birds 


214 

91() 

22, 530 

1,741 

2, 435 
6, 455 

81, 178 

583 

1,078 

1, 838 

15, 503 

3, 958 
3, 630 

1, 143 
1, 632 

28 


671 

1,782 

34, 951 

2, 870 

5,211 

16, 394 

183, 157 

778 

2, 650 

5, 152 

21, 083 

9, 984 
8,574 

1,190 

2, 946 

56- 


Ill 
25 

410 

100 

42 

151 

2, 534 


156 
40 
477 
100 
100 
304 
3,000 


325 

941 

22, 940 

1,841 

2, 477 

6,606 

83, 712 

583 

1,078 

1,838 

18, 503 
4, 109 
4,630 

1,295 

1,836 

29 


827 

1, 822 

35, 428 




2, 970 


Fishes 


5,311 
16, 698 


Shells 


186, 1.57 




778 


Cru.staceans 

Marine inv('rtel)rates. 

Plants and jtacka.ifes 
of see<is 

Fossils 

Minerals and rocks.. 

Ethnological speci- 
mens 

Insects 

Diutomaceous earths. 






2,650 






5, 1.52 


3,000 

151 

1,000 

152 
204 

1 


4,000 

151 

1,400 

1.52 

204 

55 


25, 063 

10? 135 

9, 974 

1,342 

3, 150 

623 


Total 


144, 862 


297, 941 


7,881 


10, 139 


152, 743 


308, 080 



ADDITIONS TO THE COLLECTIONS. 43 

ADDITIONS TO THE COLLECTIONS OF THE SMITHSONIAN 
INSTITUTION IN 1871. 

Agyicultaral Dci^artment. — (See Meoliliiig'.) 

Albuquerque, F., Bio Grande do Sul^ Brazil. — Bow and arrows of 
South American Indians. 

AUard, C. T., FarJ:inson^s Landing, lUinois. — Micaceous slate and 
copper pyrites, Illinois. 

Alvarado, 8r. Don. J. J. — Specimen of stalactite, from Costa Eica. 

Andrew, G., Knoxvillc, Tennessee. — Indian relics and shells, from Ten- 
nessee. 

Army Medical Musevni, ^Yashingfon, J). C. — Ethnological specimens 
from Arizona and Colorado. (See also Irwin, Dr. B. J. D. 5 Weeds, Dr. 
J. F. ; Otis, Dr. G. A. ; and White, Dr. C. B.) 

Ami/, Hon. W. M .F. — Ethnological specimens, from New Mexico. 

Baird, Professor IS. jj. — Forty-seven boxes general collections, Wood's 
Hole, Massachusetts. 

Baird, 3[rs. IS. F., Washington, D. C. — Fire-bag of Indians of Hudson 
Bay Territory; skeleton of domestic turkey, Washington, D. C. 

Beardslee, Com. I. A. — Young flying-fishes in alcohol, Atlantic Ocean. 

Bergen Museum, Bergen, Norway. — Box of natural-history collections. 

Bcrihoud, E. L., Golden City, Colorado. — Indian relics &C., from Crow 
Creek, Colorado. 

Billings, E., Montreal, Canada. — Specimens of Eozoon eanadense and 
cast of trilobite, from Canada. 

Bland, Thomas, New Yorl: — Box of shells. 

Bliss, B. K. & Co., Kew Yorl: — Palmetto fiber, from South Carolina. 

Boardman, G. A., Calais, Maine. — Specimens of birds, fishes, and skel- 
etons, from Florida ; skeletons of moose, from Maine. 

Boardman Charles A., and S. W. Smith. — Skin of moose, from 
Nova Scotia. 

Bree, Dr. C. R. — Eggs of Larus gelastcs, from Kustridge Turkey. 

Brewster, C. G., Boston, Massachusetts. — Specimens of birds. 

Britfan, H., Thayer, Kansas. — Box of Permian fossils. 

Bryant, Captain Charles. — Skulls, skeletons, and skins of fur-seal, and 
walrus, and one box dried plants, from Saint Paul Island, Behring Sea. 

Burr, C. S., AUiance, Ohio. — Box of fossil plants. 

Burroughs, John, Washington, B. C. — Nest imd egg of Dendroica cocrulcs- 
cens, from Delaware County, New York. 

Burrows, Mrs. — German horn, and small shoes made at Saint Helena. 

Butcher, M., Prince Edivard Island. — Stone axe. (Sent through liev. 
J. Fowler.) 

Carpenter, Dr. P. P. — Box of shells from west coast of North America. 

Carpenter, W L., Mill Creel; Wyoming Territory. — Larva of insect 
(borer) in wood. 



44 ADDITIONS TO THE COLLECTIONS. 

Cesnola, General L. P. di, United States Consul. — Ancient Plioenician 
pottery, from the site of tlie ancient Idaliuin, Island of Cyprus. 

Chalmers^ B., KoncMbougonach, Neic Brunswielc. — Arrrow-beads. (Sent 
by Rev. J. Fowler.) 

Choate, Isaac B., Gorhani, Maine. — Specimens of minerals, ancient 
j)ottery and arrow-beads, &c. 

Christ, R. Nazareth, Pennsylvania. — Birds' eggs, from varions localities. 

Clarice, John, Bowling Green, Ohio. — Indian stone relics from Obio. 

Clarhe, W. H., Washington, D. C. — Alcobolic collections of fisbes, 
reptiles, and invertebrates from tbe Istbmus of Darien. 

Clough, A., Fort Reynolds, Colorado. — Bos of specimens of natural 
bistory from Colorado. 

Colonial Museum, Wellington, Neic Zealand, {Dr. J. Hector.) — Casts of 
eg'gs of Binornis and Apteryx, and etbnological specimens. 

Constabh , Major A. G. — Skeleton of mouse. 

Cortelyou. J. Gardner, Somerset County, New Jersey. — Indian stone 
implements. 

Cones, Dr. Elliott, United States Army. — Four specimens of albino 
birds. 

Crane, E. H., Burr OaJc, Michigan. — Insects and small batracbian. 

Curtis, Dr. Joseph. — Oolite from Florida, and Eozoon canadense in 
cbelmsfordite, Cbelmsford, Massacbusetts. 

Curtis, Rev. M. A., Hillsborough, North Carolina. — Specimen of Meno- 
poma alleghaniense. 

Darling, Major, United States Army. — Specimen of pedunculated cir- 
rbiped in alcobol. 

Davidson, ProJ'essor George. — Specimens of woods from Alaska. 

De Castro^ Diego. — Specimen of six-legged cat. 

Dcstruge, A., Guayaquil, Ecuador. — Skeleton of Bradypus tridactylus. 

Diclcinson,E., Springjleld, Massaeliusctts. — Birds' eggs from Springfield, 
Massacbusetts. 

Doane, Lieutenant G. C, United States Army. — Box of minerals, &c., 
from Yellowstone Lake, ^Montana Territory. 

Dodge, General. — Specimen of oolitic limestone, Oxford, Tama County, 
Iowa. 

Dodge, S. C, Chattanooga, Tennessee. — Stone axe from Lookout jMount- 
ain, Tennessee. 

Dodt, Colonel Helenus, {through Dr. E. Palmer.) — "Helma," or work- 
bag of Mobave Indians, Arizona. 

Driver, G. W., Washington, D. C. — Specimen of Echeneis from Lower 
Potomac. 

Dunn, A., Salmon River, New Brunsiciclc. — Stone axe and cbisel. (Sent 
tbrougb Ilev. J. Fowler.) 

Dyer, Joseph T., Washington, D. C. — Etbnological specimens, dresses, 
«S:c., Alaska. 

Ehy, J. W., Indian Bureau. — Minerals and pbotograpbs, Utab. 



ADDITIONS TO THE COLLECTIONS. 45 

Uflmit'tuls, 2Irs. Geo. F., ^Yashi)lgfon, D. C. — Tliirty-oue specimens 
tropical birds. 

Edwards^ W. 11.^ Coalhio'fjh, West Virginia. — Box of bird-skins. 

Emmet., Dr. T. A.., New Yorlc. — Box of bird-skins from Central 
America. 

Filer, 0. L., Xcw Harmony, Utah. — Indian stone arrow bead. 

Fithiam, Thomas, United States consul. — Book perforated by ants, 
Saint Helena. 

Fish, William C, East Harwich, Massachusetts. — Flint cliips and 
arrow beads. 

Fifihcr, Professor I)., United States Naval Academy. — Sbells in alcobol 
from Milwankee, Wisconsin. 

Fisher, J., Lexington, Kentuclcy. — Etbnological specimens, copper and 
stone, from monnds near Lexington, Kentncky. 

Flint, Earl, Granada, Nicaragua. — Box of seeds and etbnological 
specimens, Ometepec Island, Nicaranga. 

Floyd, General T. C, Georgia, Heirs of. — Indian stone implements, &'c. 

Ford, T. S., Columbia, Mississippi. — Stone batcbet from iMississippi. 

Foivler, Rev. J., Bass River, New Brunswich. — Indian relics and sbells 
from Xova Scotia and New Brunswick. 

Fuller, J. F., Salado, Texas. — Specimen of arrow-bead from Texas. 

Furnas, R. W., Brownville, Nehraslca. — Specimen of radiating fibrous 
gypsum. 

Gentry, J. P., Padueah, Kcntuchy. — Specimen of clay. 

Gibbons, J. S., Lewes, Delaware. — Section of pine trunk bojed by 
teredo. • ^ 

Gihbs, ]\[rs. Alfred, New YorJc. — Etbnological specimens. (Deposited.) 

Gihbs, George, New Yorh. — Box of Ijuliau relics, California. Etbnolog- 
ical specimens from nortbwest coast. 

Gibson, Colonel G., United States Army. — Skeleton of buffalo, Fort 
Hayes, Kansas. 

Glasco, J. 21., Gilmer, Texas. — Specimens of Indian potter^^ 

Goellcr, C. L., Milledgeville, Georgia. — Specimen of sui)posed tin ore, 
Jefferson County, Tennessee. 

Green, H. A., Atco, New Jersey. — Specimens of fossils and minerals 
from Xew Jersey. 

Green, H. N., Boston Station, Kentuclaj. — Weatbered fossils from 
Kentucky. 

Greer, Colonel James, Dayton, Ohio. — Artesian borings, Indian stone 
implements, and specimen of meteorite, from Obio. 

Gundlach,Dr.J.,Havcma. — Specimen oi Solenodon enhanus in alcobol. 

Gnrley, William, Danville, Illinois. — Box of fresb-water sbells from 
Central Illinois. 

Hague, Henry. — Skeleton of tapir and box of natural bistory collec- 
tions from Guatemala. 

H'tll, Captain C. F. — Collection of relics of Fraidclin and Frobisber 
expeditions, and etbnological specimens from x\rctic America. 



4G ADDITIONS TO THE COLLECTIONS. 

Hancocl', U. J/., Waul-on, loica. — Box of miuerals, fossils, and natural 
history collections. 

ILiyden, Dr. F. V. United States Geologist. — Extensive general collec- 
tions in geology, ethnology, and natural history, from the western 
Territories, (4:5 boxes.) 

Hayes, Br. I. I., PMladclpMa, Pennsylvania. — Bird-skins from Green- 
laud. 

IleilUjhrodt, L., Austin, Texas. — Bird's eggs, and Indian arrow-heads. 

Hemphill, H., OaMand, California. — Box of shells from California. 

Henry, Professor Joseph. — Diatoms, &c., from hot springs of Cali- 
fornia. 

Hershey, David, Spriny Garden, Pennsylvania. — Prismatic quartz crys- 
tal. 

Hilgert, Henry, Santa Fe, Xew Mexico. — i!^est of swallows from Albu- 
querque, New Mexico. 

Hough, F. B., Lowville, Xew YorJc. — Box of birds' nests and eggs from 
Northern New York. 

Hotchliss, 2Ir., Shreveporf, Louisiana. — Flint implements, j)ottery, 
«S;c., from near Shreveport. 

Huggins, Lieutenant. — Skeleton of Callorhinvs ursinus, Alaska. 

Hurlburt, General S. A., United States minister to Neiv Granada. — Skins 
and skeletons of mountain tapir, Tolima, New Granada. 

Irwin, Dr. B. J. D., United States Army, Fort Wayne, Michigan. — Box 
of alcoholic vertebrates, Indian relics, «&c., from Arizona. (Through 
Army Medical JMuseum.) 

James, U. P., Cincinmti,-Ohio. — Lower Silurian fossils, (46 species,) 
from Ohio. 

Jeffreys, J. Giryn, London, England. — Brachioi)ods from the North 
Atlantic. 

Jones, Dr. Joseph, Neu'< Orleans, Louisiana. — Specimen of prepared 
wood. 

Jones, Strachan, Goderich, Canada. — Box of birds' nests and eggs from 
Lesser Slave Lake, Hudson Bay Territory. 

June, L. W., Wellington, Ohio. — Indian stone relics from Ohio. 

Keenan, T. J. P., Broolhavcn, ^lississipj^i- — 'Two boxes ethnological 
and natural histor}' specimens. 

Kidder, Dr. F., Ijceshurgh, Florida. — Specimens of pearl-bearing nnios. 

Knudscn, Valdimar, Kanui, Haioaiian Islands. — Skulls of ancient Sand- 
wich Islanders. 

Lesher, W. T., Toungwomanstoicn, Pennsylvania. — Indian arrow-heads, 
&c. 

Leu-is, George H, Atlantic City, Montana Territory. — Fragment of 
fossil turtle. 

Limpert, W. J., Groveport, Ohio. — Specimen of Sphyropicus varius. 

Luce, Jason, West Tishury, Massachusetts. — Syeciuiens of rare fishes 
from Martha's Vineyard. 



ADDITIONS TO THE COLLECTIONS. 47 

Bracintosh, I., Welford, Xcic Bniufuciel: — Arrow-heads. (Sent l>y Kev. 
J. Fowler.) 

Mactier, W. L., riiiladcIpJiia, Fcnnsylrania. — Eggs of BuIiiuKs hamas- 
toma. 

jMagulrc, J. C, Washington, D. C. — Indian slate liatcliet. (Deposited.) 

Manzano, Dr. D. J., {through Dr. A. ^Schott.) — Ilumau skull carved in 
fossil wood from Yucatan. 

Matheics, Dr. Washington, Ignited States Army. — Eggs of ArchihidiO 
fcrrugineus, with head, wings, and feet of parent, from Dakota Territory. 

2IcAdoo, W. G. — Stone disc from East Tennessee. 

McCoy, John, Blade Bixer, New Brunswiclc. — xVrrow-heads. (Sent by 
Rev. J. Fowler.) 

McKinley, W.andA. T., MilledgcviUe, (7(?or^/«.—:Box of Hint implements 
and ancient pottery, Oconee River, Georgia. 

McMinn, Mrs. J. — Twenty-six boxes geological, mineralogical, and bo- 
tanical specimens, the collections of the late John M. JMc^Minn. 

McNaughion, R., Mumford, New Yorl: — Calcareous tufa from Monroe 
County, New York. 

Meehling, Mrs. F. E. D., (through Agricultural Department.) — Speci- 
mens of reptiles, fishes, birds, &c., from Belize, British Honduras. 

Meiggs, Henry, Lima, Peru. — Two boxes Peruvian mummies. 

Meigs, General Al. C, Quartermaster General United /States Army. — 
Skin of Fhoca pcalii, from Alaska, and Indian relics from Montana ; 
minerals Galena, fluor spar, &c.) from Rosiclare, Illinois. 

Merriam, C. Hart, White Flains, Xew York. — Birds' eggs and nests 
from New York. 

Merritt, J. C, Farmingdale, New Yorl: — Arrow-heads from Long Island, 
New York, 

Miller, F., West Farmington, Ohio. — Box of fossils. 

Miller, J. Imbrie. — Splinter of calcined wood, Oogun Camp, Central 
India. 

Miller, S. A., Cincinnati, Ohio. — Fossil wood, Lower Silurian fossils, 
and Indian relics from Ohio. 

Morrison, E. H., Newark, New Jersey. — South African birds' eggs. 

Munn, Dr. C. E., United States Army. — Package of diatoms from Fort 
Wadsworth, Dakota Territory-. 

Museo Fublico, Buenos Ay res. — Box of birds, mammals, &c., from the 
Argentine Republic. 

National Museum of Mexico. — Ancient pottery from Mexico. 

Orton, Professor Edward, Yellow Springs, Ohio.—Hox of fossils from 
Oliio. 

Otis, Dr. G. A., Army Medical Museum.— Vamtcd scapula of Buffalo. 

Packard, Dr. A. S., Salem, 3Iassachnsetts.—E<;gs of lish from Salem 
Harbor. 

Pagenstecker, Professor, Heidelberg.— Box of Swiss pre-historic relics 
from Lake Dwellings. 



48 ADDITIONS TO THE COLLECTIONS. 

Fahncr, Dr. U., WasJdngton, D. C. — Seveu boxes and one bale j^enerai 
collections from Arizona; two boxes skulls of cetaceans from Welltieet, 
Massachusetts. 

Fenajid, Br. Antonio, City of Mexico. — Ancient pottery from Mexico. 

Pence, J. B., Franlvfort, Indiana. — ^Meteoric dust from surface of snow. 

Betcr, Br. B., Lexington, Kentuclcy. — Indian stone relics from Kentucky. 

Feters, Henry, New Smyrna, Florida. — Eggs of Orfyx virginianus. 

Fetton, ^y. T., New York. — Creosotized wood from isew York Creosotiz. 
ing- Works, 157 Broadway. 

Foey, Frofessor Felipe, Havana. — Skeleton of Solenodon cuhanus. 

Fourtales, Count L. F. Be. — Series of bracbiopods from deep-sea 
dredgings in Gulf Stream. 

Fowell, Mr. Joseph, United States consul, Fort Stanley. — Horn of wild ox 
from Falkland Ivslands. 

Fowell, Major J. ^Y., Normal, Blinois. — Two boxes and one bale of Ute 
clothing and implements, Colorado. 

Ridgway K. — Birds and reptiles from Mount Carmel, Illinois. 

Bing, Lieutenant F. M., United States Army. — Two boxes Indian relics 
from Alaska. 

Eiotte, Sr. Fedro. — Twenty-seven dressed figures made by Indians of 
Guatemala, and representing native costumes of that country. 

Butimcyer, Frofessor. — Lacustrine antiquities, bones, &c., Switzerland. 

Salt Lake Museum. — Two boxes minerals, fossils, and ethnological speci- 
mens, Utah. 

Salvin, 0., and Sclater, F. L., London. — Specimens of birds from Te- 
ragua, Columbia. 

Sartorius, Br. C.,Huatasco, Mexico. — Box of specimens of natural his- 
tory: box of living plants from Mexico. 

Scammon, Captain C. M., United States Berenue Marine. — Nondescript 
baleen and parasites from cetaceans, North Pacific ; baleen of hump- 
back; skull and baleen of small whale from Puget Sound; general col- 
lections from Northwest coast. 

Schenck, Br. J., Mount Carmel, Illinois. — Specimen of salamander from 
Southern Illinois. 

Schott, Br. A., Georgetown, B. C. — Two arrows of Papago Indians of 
Souora. 

Schlucker, F. F., Baltimore. — Specimen of asbestos from Maryland. 

Scliuhcr, N., Fanama. — Head of Peruvian mummy and specimens of 
ancient i)ottery from Peru. 

Scott, Genio C, New York. — Fishes preserved in ice. (Cyhium cahalla.J 

Scroggins, S. B., Baltimore, Maryland. — Specimens of fish. (Megalops 
thrissoidcs.J 

Sears, Joseph C, Fast Bennis, Massachusetts. — Indian grooved stone 
pestle. 

Schaffcr, B. M., Cincinnati, Ohio. — Lower Silurian fossils from Ohio. 

Shirley, James, Welford, Kent County, Netv Brunswick. — Stone chisel, 
(sent by Pev. James Fowler.) 



ADDITIONS TO THE COLLECTIONS. 49 

Smith, H. H., San Francisco, California. — Seed vessels of lily. 
Sxyear, Dr., United States Canal survey of the Isthmus of Tehuantepec. — 
Three boxes of general collections, Teliiiantepec. 

Squier, E. G., JSTew Yorlc. — Specimens of pottery from near Lima, Peru. 
Stearns, E. E, C, Fefaluma, California. — Box of birds' nests and 
eg-gs, &c. 

StejJhens, T. H., Jaclcsonville, Florida. — Skull of alligator and skins of 
gars, Florida. 

Sterling, Dr. E., Cleveland, Ohio. — Cast of roe of muskelouge from 
Saginaw Eiver, Michigan; casts of fresh- water fish. 
Sternberg, C. 31., Fort Harlcer, Kansas. — Skeleton of buffalo. 
Sumichrast, Dr. F. — Two boxes natural history specimens from Mexico. 
Taylor, George, Washington, D. C. — Head of Bhyncliops nigra, Cape 
]May, New Jersey. 

Taylor, Isaac H., Boston, Blassachusetts. — One box skulls, South Afri- 
can mammals. (Through G. S. Boardman.) 

Thompson, Rev. D., MUnersville, Ohio. — Box of ethnological specimens, 
fossils, &ic. 

Thompson, J. H., New Bedford, Massachusetts. — Box containing three 
lish. 

Tilton, B. 31., Chilmarl-, 31assachusetts. — Specimen of Blepharis, in 
alcohol. 

Treat, 3Irs. 31., Vineland, New Jerse?/.— Specimen of living serpent. 
Turner, Lucian, 3Iount Carmel, Illinois. — Fishes from Southern Illinois. 
Turner, Samuel, 3Iount Carmel, Illinois. — Birds from Wabash County, 
Illinois. 

University of Christiania. — Sparagmite from ISTorway. 
University of Louisiana, Baton Eougc. — Two boxes of Indian stone 
relics. (Dei^osited.) 

Van Fatten, Dr. — Ancient pottery from Costa Bica. 
Vaux, William S., Fhiladclphia. — Ethnological specimens, casts, «S:c. 
Yerstenilcoff, A., Saint Faul Island, Alasha Territory. — Skull of fox. 
Vortisch, Rev. L. — Ethnological specimens, Satow, Germany. 
Wallace, Fresident D. A., 31onmouth College, Illinois. — Cast of inscrip- 
tion faces of the Tanis stone, received from Dr. Lansing, Alexandria, 
Egypt. 

Wallace, John. — Specimen of musk-deer in the flesh; skull of giraffe. 
Ward, Professor II. A., Rochester, Keiv Yorlc. — Casts of megatherium, 
glyptodon, and colossochelys. 

Wehb, J. G., Sarasota Bay, Florida. — Box of ethnological and natural 
history collections. 

Webster, Professor II. E., Schenectady, Kew Yorl\ — Box of marine 
invertebrates, &c. 

Weeds, Dr. J. F. — Ethnological specimens from Kew Mexico. (Through 
Army Medical Museum.) 

White, Dr. C. B. — Specimen of Fodiceps cornutus from Fort Schuyler, 
Kew York. (Through Army Medical Museum.) 
4 s 71 



50 ADDITIONS TO THE COLLECTIONS. 

Wilnon, L.J Afitoria, Oregon. — Specimen of beetles in alcohol. 

Wright, J. W. A., Turlocl; California. — Arrow-lieads from San Joaquin 
Valley, California. 

Yager, W. U., Oneonta, Neiv Yorlc. — Reptiles in carbolic-acitl solution. 

Yarrow, Br. II. C, Fort 2lacon, North Carolina. — Specimens of fisb, 
cetaceans, and Indian relics from North Carolina. 

Yates, Dr. L. F. — Iluman cranium and box of pine cones from Cali- 
fornia. 

Zeledon, Jose C, Washington, 1). C. — Twelve card photographs of 
Indians of Guatemala; miniature carvings by the same. 

Unlcnown. — Box of corals, &c.; specimen of symplocarpus, Whatcom, 
Washington Territory; specimen of dark marble, Jefierson County, 
West Virginia; si3ecimens offish. 



LITERARY AND SCIExNTlFlC EXCHANGES. 



Table showing the statistics of the Smithsonian exchanges in 1871. 


Agt'ut and couutry. 


'w to 

O D 


o 

t to 

g 


s5 


il 

;3 " 


«3 


EoYAL Swedish Academy of Sciences, 
Stockholm : 


IS 


41 


3 


24 


900 






Rdval Univehsity of Norway, Chnsliania : 


22 


39 


2 


16 


600 






Royal Danish Society of Scien^ces, Copen- 
luKjen : 


2.'> 
1 


44 


-2 


16 


600 


Icekiud . . ... 












Total 


2(] 


46 
















L. Watkins & Co., Saiut Petershurfj : 

Rusaia 


93 


160 


4 


32 


1,200 






Fkederick Mt)LLER, Amsterdam : 

Holland 


52 
95 


93 
105 


1 

2 


8 
16 


300 


* Beleium 


600 






Total 


117 


198 
















Dr. Felix Flugel, Lcijjsic : 

Gei'CQaiiy ... 


145 

1 

46 


477 

1 

64 


28 


224 


8,400 


Iceland 


Switzerland 


2 


16 


600 






Total 


492 


542 
















GusTAVE Bossange, Paris: 

Fiance 


132 


147 


6 


48 


1.800 






Reale Istituto Lombard! di Scienze e 
Lettere, Milan: 

Italy 


109 


120 


8 


64 


2 400 






Royal Academy of Sciences, Lisbon : 

Portugal 


19 


20 


1 


8 


300 






Royal Academy op Sciences of Madrid : 
Spain 


7 


9 


1 


8 


300 






William Wesley, London : 

Great Britain and Ireland 


252 


332 


23 


184 


6, 900 






Univehsity of Melbourne : 

Australia 


18 


20 


1 


8 


300 






Parliamentary Library, Wellington : 

New Zealand 


7 


8 


1 


8 


300 






Rest of the world 


90 


96 


23 


92 


3,450 




Grand total 


1, 432 


1,778 


108 


772 


'ii<, 950 







52 



LITERARY AND SCIENTIFIC EXCHANGES. 



Faclcages received hy the Sinithsonian Institution from parties in America^ 
for foreign distribution, in 1871. 



Address. 



6^ 



ALBANY, NEW YORK. 

Albany Institute , 

New York State Library , 

Professor James Hall , 

BOGOTA, COLOMBIA. 

Society of Naturalists 

BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS. 

American Academy of Arts and Sci- 
ences 

Board of State Charities 

Boston Society of Natural History. 
Massachusetts Historical Society . . 

Perkins Institution for Blind 

Mrs. J alia Ward Howe 

BROOKLYN, NEW Y^ORK. 

S.S. Cutting 

BURLINGTON, NEW JERSEY. 

W.G.Binney 

CAMBRIDGE, MASSACHUSETTS. 

Muvscnm of Comparative Zoology. . 

Professor Asa. Gray 

Count L. F. Pourtales 

Professor J. D. Whitney 

COLUMBUS, OHIO. 

Ohio State Board of Agriculture... 

DORCHESTER, MASSACHUSETTS. 

Dr. E. Jarvis 

FORT m'henry', :\iaryland. 
Dr. Elliott Coues 

FOUNTAINDALE, ILLINOIS. 

M.S.Bebb 

GEORGETOWN, DIST. OF COLUMBIA. 

Greorgetown College 

INDIANAPOLIS, INDIANA. 

Indiana Institute for Educating the 
Deaf and Dumb 



1 

124 

41 



36 



163 

228 

296 

1 

9.5 

140 



1, 34.5 

3 

1 

15 



43 




39 



IOWA CITY, IOWA. 

Professor G. Hinrichs 

Dr. C.A.White 

JANESVILLE, WISCONSIN. 

Wisconsin Institution for Educating 
the Blind 

KEY'TESVILLE, MISSOURI. 

John C. Veatch 

LIBERTY, VIRGINIA. 

A. H. Curtis , 

MONTRE.\L, CANADA. 

Natural History Society 

E. Billings 

P. P. Carpenter 

NEW BEDFORD, MASSACHUSETTS. 

J. H. Thomson 

NEW HA\TEN, CONNECTICUT. 

American Journal of Science and 
Arts 

Connecticut Academy of Arts and 
Sciences 

Professor J. D. Dana 

S.J. Smith 

Professor A. E. Verrill 

NEWPORT, VERMONT. 

Orleans County Society of Natural 
Sciences 

NEW YORK, NEW YORK. 

American Institute 

Anthropological Institute of New 
Y^ork 

Argentine consul 

Lyceum of Natural History 

J. Maunsell Schielfelin 

OXFORD, MISSISSIPPI. 

E. W. Ililgard 

PAXTON, ILLINOIS. 

T. N. Hasselquint 






LITERARY AND SCIENTIFIC EXCHANGES. 
Paclcages received from parties in America., &c. — Continued. 



53 



Addiess. 


CO 


Address. 


o to 


PEORIA, ILLINOIS. 
Dr. F. Breudel 


o 

178 

291 

G 

1 

2G4 

4 

1 

30 

54 

1 

63 

8G 
26 

25 

1 

10 

213 

101 


S.OI FRAXCISCO, CALIFORNIA. 

R. E. C. Stearns 


2 
25 


PniLADELPI I lA, PEXIs S YLVAXIA . 

Academy of Na.tnral Sciences 

American Philosophical Society 

Director of the Mint 


SPRIXGriELD, ILLINOIS. 

A. H. Worthen 


SPRINGFIELD, :\LVSSACnUSETTS. 

S. C. S. Southworth 




House of Refiio'e 




Wagner Free Institute of Scier.ces.. 
Rev. E. R. Beadle 




TORONTO, CANADA. 

Canadian Institute 




Henry C. Carey 




J.S. Hart 

Dr. Isaac Lea 


9 


THENTON, NEW JERSEY. 

Juliii S. Hart 

UTICA, NEW YORK. 
E. Jewett 




W. S. Vaux 




POIITLAND, MAINE. 

Portland Society of Natural History. 


IG 

2 


POTT.SVILLE, PEXNSYLVAXIA. 

P.W. Sheafer 

QUEBEC. 


WASHINGTON, D. C. 

Board of Indian Commissioners... 

Bureau of Statistics .». 

Census Bureau 


302 

200 

5 


Literary and Historical Society 


Clinio-pathological Society 

Department of Agriculture 

General Laud-Ofdce 


1 

400 
>> 


SACRAMENTO, CALIFOJiNIA. 


Nautical Almanac Office 


44 


California Institution for the Deaf 
and Duml) 


Navy Dejjartmeut 


G 


Office of Chief of Engineers 

Quartermaster General's Office 

United Srates Coast Survey Office . 
United States Congress 


99 


California State Board of Health. .. 


183 

500 


SALNT LOUIS, MISSOURI. 

Dr. CI. Engelmann 


United States Naval Observatory.. 
United States Patent Office 


59 

238 

9 




Dr. Cleveland Abbe 


127 


SAINT PAUL, MINNESOTA. 


W.H. Dall 

Dr. F. V. Havden 


36 
3 


Minnesota Historical Society 


F. B. Meck..^ 


2 


T. Poesche 


1 




C. R. Rangabe 


4 


S.VLEM, MASSACHUSETTS. 


R. Ridgeway 


1 




Unknown 


3 


Esses Institute . 


Total 




Peabody Academy of Science 


7, 730 









54 



LITERARY AND SCIENTIFIC EXCHANGES. 



Paclcages received hy the Smithsonian Institution from Europe in 1871 for 
distribution in America. 



Address. 



AXBANY, NEW YORK. 

Regents of New York State Uni- 
versity 

Albany Institute 

Board of State Charities 

Dudley Observatory 

New York State Agricultural So- 
ciety 

New York State Cabinet of Natural 
History 

New York State Homoeopathic So- 
ciety 

New York State Library 

Inspectors of the Penitentiary 

Inspectors of the State Prisons of 
New York 

Hon. Francis Barlow 

Professor James Hall 

Professor J. W. Hough 



ALLEGHENY CITY, PENNSYLVANIA. 

Observatory 

AMHERST, MASSACHUSETTS. 



Amherst College 

Geological Survey of Massachusetts 

Professor E. S. Snell , 

Professor E. Tuckerman 



ANNAPOLIS, MARYLAND. 



State Library 

United States Naval Academy . 



ANN ARBOR, :\nCHIG-AN. 



Observatory 

University of Michigan . 
Dr. Freese 

Dr. .1. C. Watson 

Professor A. Winchell.. 



APPL1':T0N, WISCONSIN. 

Lawrence University 

ATHENS, GEORGIA. 

University of Georgia 

ATHENS, ILLINOIS. 

Professor Elihu Hall ,t 

ATHENS, OHIO. 

Uuivcrsitv of Ohio 



6^ 



6 

7 

I 

IG 

35 



1 

33 

1 

1 
1 

30 
1 



Address. 



AUGUSTA, MAINE. 

Coniniissioner of Fisheries. 
Maine Lunatic Hospital 



AUSTIN, NEVADA. 

Dr. T. Storch 



AUSTIN, TEXAS. 

Judge Julius Schultze 

BALDWIN CITY, KANSAS. 

Balcer University 

BALTIMORE, jMARYLAND. 

American Journal of Dental Sci- 
ence 

Maryland Historical Society 

Mercantile Library 

Municipality 

Peabody Institute 

University of Maryland 

A. M. Carter 

P.R.Uhler 



BLOOMINGTON, INDLVNA. 



Indiana State University. 
Professor D. Kirkwood 



BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS. 

American Academy of Arts and Sci- 
ences 

American Christian Examiner 

American Social Science Association 

American Statistical Association.. 

American Unitarian Association. .. 

Atlieneum 

Board of State Charities 

Boston Christian Register 

Boston Medical and Surgical Jour- 
nal :. 

Boston Society of Natural History. 

Directors of Public Institutions.. . 

Gyn£Bci>logical So(;iely 

Inspectors of Massachusetts State 
Prisons 

Massachusetts Historical Society.. 

Massachusetts Society for Preven- 
tion of Cruelty to Animals 

Municipality 

New England Historic, Genealog- 
ical Society 

North American Review 

Public Library 



Ci4 



LITERARY AND SCIENTIFIC EXCHANGES. 
Paclcages received from Europe^ d'C. — Contiuued. 



55 




Boston, Mass. — Contiuued. 

Society for the Development of Min 

oral Resources 

State Library 

Rev. W. R. Alger 

.1. D. Allen 

J. L. Clarke 

Mrs. C. H. Dall 

Piofessor Wolcott Gibbs 

E. R. Mayo 

Dr. Albert Ord way 

Professor E. C. Pickering 

W. B.Rogers 

A. P. Rockwell 

.1 . Sandford 

S. H. Scudder 

Charles A. Stearns 

Dr. F. Storer 

Professor W. Watson 

Robert C. Winthrop 

BKOOKLINE, MASSACHU.SETT.S. 

Dr. Th. Lyman 

BROOKLYN, NEW YORK. 

City Library , 

Collegiate and Polytechnic Institute 

BRUNSWICK, MAINE. 

Bowdoiii College 

Historical Society of ISIaine 

BUFFALO, NEW YORK. 

Buffalo Historical Society 

Medical and Surgical Journal 

Natural History Society 

BURLINCTON, IOWA. 

Mr. Eagstrom 

BURLINGTON, NEW JERSEY. 
W. G. Biuney 

BURLINGTON, VER:\I0NT. 

University of Vermont 

C.A.MBRIDGE, MASSACIIUSETT.S. 

American Association for Advance- 
ment of Science 

Astronomical Journal 

Harvard College 

Harvard College Observatory 



1 

45 
37 



Cambridge, Mass. — Contiuued. 

Museum of Comparati\'e Zoology 

A. Agassiz 

Professor L. Agassiz 

John C. Anthony 

Dr. Brown-Sequard 

Professor J. P. Cooke 

Professor W. Ferrel 

Dr. B.A.Gould 

Professor Asa Gray 

Dr. Herman Hageu 

W. James 

Professor J. Lovering 

Dr. G. L. Maack 

J nles Marcou 

Dr. T.Parker 

Professor B. Peirce 

L. F. De Pourtales 

Professor W. A. Rogers 

Dr. F. Steindachner 

Professor J. D. Whitney 

Professor J. Winlock 

Dr. Charles Wright 

CARLISLE, PENNSYLVANIA. 

Dickinson College 

Society of Literature 

CENTREVILLE, CALIFORNIA. 

Dr. Lorenzo C. Yates 

CHAPEL IULL, TEXAS. 

Soule University 

CIIAL'LESTON, SO I' III CAROLINA. 

Elliott Society of Natural History 

Library Company 

Society Li brary 

South Carolina Historical Society 
Wiluiot ike Saussure 

Cn.VRLOTTESVILLE, VIIiGINIA. 

University of Virginia 

CHICAGO, ILLINOIS. 

Chicago Academy of Science 

Chicago Board of Trade 

Dearborn Observatory 

Medical Times 

Municipality 

Young Men's Association Library.. 

Professor T. H. Safford 

Dr. W. St iinpson 



56 



LITERARY AND SCIENTIFIC EXCFIANGES. 
Packages received from Europe^ <&:c. — Continued. 



Address. 



CINCINNATI, OHIO. 



American Medical College 

Astronomical Society 

Astronomical Observatory 

Dental Register 

Historical and Philosophical Society 

of Ohio 

Mercantile Library 

Municipality 

Ohio Mechanics' Institute 



CLEVELAND, OHIO. 

Cleveland University 

CLINTON, NEW YORK. 



Litchfield Observatory 

Professor C. H. F. Peters 

COALBURGH, WEST VIRGINIA. 

W. n, Edwards 



COLUMBLi, MISSOURI. 

Geological Survey of Missouri. 

Missouri University 

Dr. E. C. Swallow 



COLUMBIA, SOUTH CAROLINA. 

South Carolina College 



COLUMBUS, OHIO. 

Ohio State Board of Agriculture 

State Library 

Leo Lesquereux 

Dr. W. S. Sullivant 



CONCORD, NEW HAMPSHIRE. 

New Hampshire Historical Socie^. . 

State Lunatic Asyl um 

Warden of New Hampshire State 
Prison 






CREDIT, CANADA. 

Rev. C. J. S. Bethuno 

CROW WING, MINNESOTA. 

Francis Pierz 

DAVENPORT, IOWA. 

Public Librarv 



1 

1 

24 

6 

1 
3 
1 
1 



Address. 



G8 
3 
7 
1 



DEGORAH, IOWA. 

Lutheran College 

DELAWARE, OHIO. 

Wesleyan University 

DES MOINES, IOWA. 

Governor of the State of Iowa. 
State Library 



DETROIT, MICHIGAN. 

Inspector of Detroit House of Cor- 
rection 

Michigan State Agricultural Soci- 
ety 

W. U. Reichert - 



DORCHESTER, MASSACHUSETTS. 

Dr. Edward Jarvis 

EAST GREENWICH, NEW YORK. 

Asa Fitch 

EASTON, PENNSYLA'.VNIA. 



Lafayette College . . . 
Professor J. H. Coffin 



ELMIRA, NEW YORK. 

Elmira Academy of Sciences 

ERIE, PENNSYLV^VNIA. 

Rev. L. G. Olmstead 

EVANSTON, ILLINOIS. 

Northwestern University 

] ARMINGTON, CONNTDCTICUT. 

Edward Norton 

FORT M'HENRY, MARYLAND. 

Dr. Elliott Cones 

FOUNTAINDALE, ILLINOIS. 

M.S.Behb 

FRANKFORT, KENTUCKY. 

Geological Survey of Kentucky . . . 



LITERARY AND SCIENTIFIC EXCHANGES. 
FacJiages received from EuroiJC, &C. — Coutinaed. 



57 




FREDERICTOX, NEW BIIUXSWICK. 

Legislative Library 

University of New Brunswick 



GEORGETOWN, DISTRICT OF COl.r.M- 
BIA. 



Georgetown College. 
Dr. Arthur Schott... 



HALIFAX, ^'()^■A SCOTIA. 

Nova Scotian Institute of Natural 

Sciences 

51. Forres 

Professor Lawson 

John R. Willis 



HA:\IPDEX SIDNEY, VIRGINIA. 

Hampden Sidney College 

HANOVER, NEW nAMrSHIRE. 



Dartmouth College. 
C. A. YoauiT 



HARRIsBURGII, RENNSVLVANIA. 

Medical Society of the State of Penn- 
sylvania 

State Library 



HARTFORD, CONNECTICUT. 

Connecticut State Agricultural So- 
ciety 

Hartford Historical Society 

Youiig Men's Institute 



HILLSBOROUGH, NORTH CAROLINA. 

Rev. M. A.Curtis 

HOBOKEN, NEW JERSEY. 

Stevens' Institute of Technology... 

HONOLULU, HAWAIIAN ISLANDS. 

"\^'. Harpei- Pease 

INDIANAPOLIS, INDIANA. 

Geological Survey of Indiana 

Indiana Historical Society 

Indiana lustituto for the Blind 

State Library 

E.T. Cox 



INMANSVILLK, WISCONSIN. 

Wiscousin Scandinavian Society.. 

IOWA CITY, IOWA. 



Geological Survey of Iowa. 

Iowa State University 

Professor G. Hinrichs 

Dr. C.A.White 



ITHACA, NEW YORK. 

Cornell College 

Professor F. E. Loom is 



JANESVILLE, WISCONSIN. 

Wisconsin Institution for Educating 
the Blind 1 . 



KNOXVILLE, TENNESSEE. 

Cumberland University 

LEXINGTON, KENTUCKY. 



Transylvania University 
Professor J. H. Clarko. . 



LITTLE ROCK, ARKANSAS. 

Governor of the State of Arkansas. 

Literary Institute of Arkansas 

State Library 

State University 



LOUISVILLE, KENTUCKY. 

Historical Society of Kentucky 

Muuicixiality ". 

Richmond and Louisville Medical 

Journal 

University of Louisville 



LOWVILLE, NEW YORK. 
Franklin B. Houfrh 



MADISON, WISCONSIN. 

Skandinaviske, Presse-Forening. . 

State Historical Society of Wiscon- 
sin , , 

Wisconsin State Agricultural Soci- 
ety 



MANCHESTER, NEW HAMPSHIRE. 

City Library 



58 



LITERARY AND SCIENTIFIC EXCHANGES. 
Paclcages received from Europe &c. — Continued. 



Address. 



6^ 







MARQUETTE, MICHIGAN. 

•Bishop Ignatius Maak 

MARYSVXr.LE, CALIFORNIA. 

Br. E. T. Wilkins 

MEADVILLE, PENNSYLVANIA. 

Observatory of Allegheny College.. 
Professt>r Laugley 

MILWAUKEE, WISCONSIN. 

German Academy of Natural 

Sciences 

I. A. Lapham 

MONTPELIER, VERMONT. 

Historical and Antiquarian Society. . 
State Library 

MONTREAL, CAN.\J)A. 

Entomological Society of Montreal. . 

Geological Survey of Canada 

Historical Society 

King's College 

McGill College 

Natural History Society 

E. Billings 

Dr. P. P. Carpenter 

Professor J. W. Dawson 

Dr. T. Sterry Hunt 

Sir W. E. Logan 

Dr. C. Small wood 

NASHUA, NEW HAMPSHIRE. 

Dr. B. K. Emerson 

NASHVILLE, TENNESSEE. 

Geological Survey of Tennessee 

University 

NEENAH, WISCONSIN. 

Scandinavian Library Association . . 
Scandinavian Literary Society 

NEGAUNEE, MICHIGAN. 

Major F. B. Brooks 

NEW BEDFORD, MASSACHUSETTS. 
John H. Thomson 

NEW BRUNSWICK, NEW JERSEY. 

Geological Survey of New Jersey. .. 



1 

11 
1 
1 

5 

28 
g 

2 

14 

12 

8 

1 



New Brunswick, N. J.— Cont'd. 

Rutgers College 

Professor George H. Cook 

Professor John C. Smock 

NEW COELN, WISCONSIN. 

T.A.Bruhin 

NEW HAVEN, CONNECTICUT. 

American Journal of Science and 

Arts 

American Oriental Society 

Connecticut Academy of Arts and 

Sciences 

Yale College 

Professor G. J. Brush 

Professor J. D. Dana 

George Gibbs 

Professor E. Loomis 

Professor C. S. Lyman 

Professor O. C. JMarsh 

Professor H. A. Newton 

Professor B. Silliman 

Sidney J. Smith 

Professor A. E. Verrill 

Professor W. D. Whitney 

NEW LONDON, CONNECTICUT. 

Young Men's Christian Association. 

NEW ORLEANS, LOUISIANA. 

Municipality 

New Oileaus Academy of Natural 
Sciences 

NEWPORT, RHODE ISLAND. 

Mechanics' Library 

NEWPORT, VERMONT. 

Orleans County Society of Natural 
Sciences 

NEW YORK, N. Y. 

American Bureau of Mines 

American Christian Commission.. . 

American Geographical and Statis- 
tical Society 

American Institute 

American .lournal of ]\lining 

American ^luseum of Natural His- 
tory 

Anthropological Institute of New 
York 

Astor Library 

Columbia College 

Cooper Union 

Eclectic Medical College 

Journal gf Psychological Medicine. 



LITERARY AND SCIENTIFIC EXCHANGES. 59 

Pacl-agcs received from Enrope^ &c — Goutiuued. 



Address. 



New York, N. Y. — Coutiimed. 



Lyceum of Natural History 

Medical Gazette 

Medical Journal 

Medical Record 

Mercantile Library Association 

Metropolitan Board of Health 

Microscopical Society 

Municipality 

New York Academy of Medicine 

New York Christian Inquirer 

New Y'ork Historical Society 

Numismatic and Archaeological So- 
ciety 

School of Mines 

Secretary of American Prison Asso- 
ciation 

Society Library 

United States Sanitarjr Commission. 

University 

Dr. F. A. P. Barnard 

Professor Bauer 

Thomas Bland , 

Dr. Carrington Bolton 

Professor C. F. Chandler 

Captain J. M. Dow , 

Dr. H. Draper 

Professor T. Egleston 

A. Eilers 

Samuel Elirt 

Captain John Ericsson 

Professor Hermann I'lligel 

Dr. Gescheidt 

Henry Grinnell 

Dr. Charles Joy 

Dr. James P. Kimball 

Dr. H. J. Knapp 

Dr. James Knight 

George N. Lawrence 

Professor S. F. B. Morse 

Dr. J. S. Newberry 

Dr. J. C. Nott 

Baron R. Ostensackeii 

Dr. Martyn Paine 

Messrs. Parker & Douglas 

Alfred Pell 

Professor A. Poey 

Professor R. Pumpelly 

Dr. R. W. Raymond 

Professor O. M. Rood 

Lewis M. Rutlierfoi'd 

H. M. Schiefflin 

E. G. Squier 

Dr. L. Tellkampf 

T.C.Theakcr 

Dr. John Torrey 

Dr. liUther Voss 

Dr. Wines 



6-^ 



NORXnAMPTOX, SrASSACmSKll'S. 

State Lunatic Asylum 



Address. 



OTTAWA, ILLINOIS. 

Ottawa Academy of Natural Sci- 
ences 



OXFORD, MlSSISSIPn. 

Eugene W. Hilgard 



PAXTON, ILLINOIS. 

T. N. Hasselipnnt 

PENN VAX, NEW YOVAi. 

Samuel H. Wright 



PEORIA, ILLINOIS. 

Dr. F. Brendel 



PIIIL.\DELPIIIA, PENNSYLVANIA . 



Academy of Natural Sciences 

American Entomological Society.. 

American Journal of Conchology.. 

American Pharmaceutical Associa- 
tion 

American Philosopliical Society... 

Board of Inspectors of County I'ris- 
ous 

Central High School 

Curator of Birds, Philadelphia Mu- 
seum 

Dental Cosmos 

Dental Enquirer 

Dental Times 

Franklin Institute 

Historical Society of Pennsylvania 

Jeffersou Medical College 

Library Company 

Medical and Surgical Reporter 

Medical Times 

Mercantile Library 

Municipality 

North American Medico-Chirurgical 
Review 

Numisnuitic and Antiquarian So- 
ciety 

Observatory of Girard College 

Pennsylvania Institution foi- Blind. 

Pennsylvania Society for Preven- 
tion ot Cruelty to Animals 

Public Schools 

Society for Alleviating Miseries of 
Public Prisons 

Su))e.rintendent of State Peniten- 
tiary 

University 

Wagner Free Institute of Science.. 

Rev. E. R. Beadle 

Loriu Blodget 

H. C. Carey 





t» 




<u 


o 


to 




a 


c 


'^ 


p^ 









60 LITERARY AND SCIENTIFIC EXCHANGES. 

Paclmgcs received from Europe^ d'c. — Continued. 



Address. 



PhiLjVDELLPIiia, Pa. — Coutiuued. 



J. Cassiu 

Pliny Earl Chase 

Dr. F. A. Conrad 

Professor E. D. Cope. .. 
Dr. Bennett Dowler ... 

Dr. F. A.Genth . 

Judge Hare 

Dr.K. Hare 

Dr. G. H. Horn 

Dr. Isaac Lea 

Dr. L. Le Conte 

Professor J. Leidy 

J. P. Lesley 

Johnson D. Lund 

B. S. Lyman 

Thomas Meehau 

J. A. Meigs 

Dr. C. F. Parker 

Thomas Stewardsou, jr. 
George W. Tryon.... ... 

Professor Wiigner 

Dr. Horatio Wood, jr.. . 






PH(ENIXVILLF,, rEXXSVLVAXIA. 

Charles M. Wheatley 



PITTSFIELD, MASSACHUSETTS. 

Library Association 

PITTSBURGH, PENNSYLVANIA. 

Professor S. P. Langley 

I'OIiTEAND, MAINE. 



Legislature of Maine 

Portland Society of Natural His- 
tory 



rOUGHKEEPSIE, NEW YOIMC. 

Miss Maria Mitchell 

PEINCETON, NEW JEIISEV. 



College of New Jersey . . 
Horticultural Society. .. 
Pharmaceutical Society 
I'rol'cssor S. Alexiinder. 
Proltssor A. Guyot 



PPvOVIDENCE, RHODE ISLAND. 



Athenaeum 

Brown University 

Rhode Island Historical Society 



Address. 



Providence, R. I. — Continued. 



Professor A. Caswell. 
Dr. Edwin M. Snow.. 



QUEBEC, CANADA. 

Legislative Library ^ 

Literary and Historical Society 

Observatory 

Lieutenant E. D. Ashe 

M. Joly do Lotbiuiere 

Abb6 Provauche 



O t£ 



RALEIGH, NOKTH CAROLINA. 

Professor W. C. Kerr 



RICHMOND, VIRGINIA. 

Historical Society of Virginia. 

State Li brary 

T. PL Wynne 



SACR^VMENTO, CALIFORNIA. 

Dr. Thomas M. Logan 

SAINT ANTHONY, MINNESOTA. 

University of Minnesota 

SAINT JOHN, NEW BRUNSWICK. 

Mechanics' lustituto 

Natural History Society 



SAINT LOUIS, MISSOURI. 



Humboldt Medical College 

Medical Ai'chives of Sain^ Louis. . 

Medical and Surgical Journal 

Missouri Dental Journal 

Municipality 

I'ublic School Library 

Saint Louis Academy of Sciences. 

Uxiiversity 

Dr. Louis Bauer 

Dr. Louis Eugelman 

Louisa Lauge 

Charles V. Riley 

Maurice Shuster 



SAINT PAUL, MINNESOTA. 



Minnesota Historical Society 

Northwestern Medical and Surgi- 
cal Journal - 

J. H.Kloos 



1 
11 

2 
1 
1 
I 



1 
1 
4 

1 
1 

84 
4 
I 
1 
1 



LITERARY AND SCIENTIFIC EXCHANGES. 
Packages received from Europe^ &c — Continued. 



61 



Address. 




SALEM, MASSACHUSETTS. 

Esses Institute 

Peabody Academy of Scieuce 

A. S. Packard, jr 

F. W. Putnam 

W. S.West 

S.U.T LAKE CITY, UTAH. 

University 

SAN FRAXCISCO, CALIFORNLV. 

California Academy of Natural Sci- 
ences 

Jlercautile Library Association 

Mnnicipality 

Professor H. N. Bolander 

S. A. L. Brannan, jr 

])r. ,L G. Cooper 

E. E. C. Stearns 

SCHEXECTADV, NEW V<_nJK. 

Pidlessor H. E. Webster 

SING SING, NEW VOKK. 

Dr. G.J.Fisher 



SOUTH BETHLEHEM, PENNSYLVANIA. 

Professor A. 51. Mayer . . . .^ 

SPRINGFIELD, ILLINOIS. 

Geological Survey of Illinois 

Illinois State Agricultural Society.. 

Illinois State University 

Professor A. H. Wortben 



TORONTO, CANADA. 

Botanical Society of Toronto 

Canadian Institnti^ 

Literary and Historical Society 

Observatory , 

'J'rinity College 

University .... 

D. K. Winder 



TUSCALOOSA, ALABAMA. 

University of Alabama 

UTICA, NEW YORK. 

American Journal of Insanity 

washin(;ton, d. c. 
American Nautical Almanac Office.. 



Address. 






Washington, D. C— Continued. 

Argentine Legation 

Board of Indum Commissioners... 

Bureau of Navigation 

Bureau of Statistics 

Census Bureau 

Columbia Institution for the Deaf 

and Dumb 

Commissioner of Agriculture 

Department of Agriculture 

Department of Education 

Engineer Bureau 

General Land-Office 

Government Insane Asylum 

Howard University 

Hydrographic Office 

Interior Depaxtmeut 

Library of Congress 

Medical Society of the District of 

Columbia 

Municipality 

Navy Department 

National Academy of Science 

Ordnance Bureau 

Secretary of the Navy 

Secretary of War 

Signal Office 

State Department 

Surgeon Generars Office 

Survey of North American Lakes.. 

Treasury Department 

United States Coast Surv'ey 

United States Naval Observatory . 

United States Patent-Office 

United States Revenue Dei^artment 

War Department 

Washington Public Schools 

Young Men's Christian Association . 

Professor Cleveland Abbe. . . . . 

General H.L.Abbot 

Mrs. C. Alexan<ler 

Professor S. F. Baird 

G. M. Bache 

Dr. H. M. Banniister 

General J. G. Barnard 

Professor W. P. Blake 

Professor J. H. C. Coffin 

T. A.Craven 

W. H.Dall 

C. H. Davis 

Miss Dorothea Dix 

General \V. H. Emory 

Dr. E. Foreman 

W. Q. Force 

General J. C. Fremont 

Edw. M. Gallaudet 

Baron Gerolt 

Professor T. Gill ' 

Dr. F. V. Hayden 

Professor J . Henry 

J. E. Hilgard....'. 



62 LITERARY AND SCIENTIFIC EXCHANGES. 

Faclcages received from Europe, &c. — Continued. 



Address. 



Washixgton, D. C. — Continued. 



G. W. Hill 

.John Hitz 

General A. A. ilmii[)lirfvs 

E.B. Hunt ^ 

J. 0. G. Kiuinedy 

Admiral Lee 

Professor J. H. MeCliesuc^y 

J.N.Maffit 

F. B.Meek 

Brijj;adier General A. ,J. Mj^ers.. 

Professor S. Neweuuib 

Dr. C. C. Parry 

T. PoescUo 

W. J. Khees 

Admiral Sands 

Professor G. C. Schaelfer 

C. A. Sehott 

Henry Ulke 

Lieutenant Colonel Woodward. 
C. B. Young 



WATEKBUKV, CONNECTICUT. 
Brownson Library 



W ATEUVLLLE, MAINE. 

Watervillc Collejie 






Address. 



WEST POINT, NEW YOKK. 

Professor W. H. C. Bartlett.. 



WILLIAilSBUKGlI, VIltGIXIA. 

Virginia Eastern Lunatic Asylum. 

WILLIAMSTOWN, MASSACHUSETTS. 

Williams College 



WILMIN GTON, r)EL.\W.V MIO . 

Agricultural Society of Wilmington 
Wilmington Institute 



WINDSOi:, NOVA SCOTIA. 

Kings College 

WOnCESTEK, JIASSACHUSETT5. 

Ameriean Antiquarian Society 

Free Public Library 



<<H 


aj 


o 


br 




cS 


o 


.^ 


"<* 


a 







14 
3 



Total addresses of institutions. 
Total addresses of individuals. 



318 
255 



573 



Total number of parcels to institutions 3,049 

Total number of parcels to individuals 903 



3, 952 



LIST OF METEOROLOGICAL STATIONS AND OBSERVERS OF THE SMITHSO- 
NIAX liXSTITUTlOX FOR THE YEAR 1871. 



Name of observer. 



Address. 



BRITISH AMERICA. 

Clift.Heury A 

Delaiiey, Johu 

Higgins, Professor D. F 

Joues, W. Martin 

Murdoch, G 

ytewart, James 

MEXICO. 
Sartorius, Dr. C 



Harbor Grace, Newfoundland. 

St. John's, Newfoundland. 

Acadia College, WoliVille, Nova Scotia. 

Clifton, Ontario. 

Saint John, New Brunswick. 

Wiuuii^eg, Manitoba. 



Mirador, Vera Cruz. 



Alison,Dr. H. L 

Antony, E. L 

Fahs, Dr. C, and Miss E. Deans . 

Jenniugs, Dr. S. K 

Peters, Dr. Thomas M 

Shields, J. H 

Tutwiler, II 

Vankirk, \V. J 

ALA.8KA. 

Bryant, Charles 

ARKANSAS. 

Bishop, H 

Greene, E 

Martin, Joseph P 

McClung, C. L 

Russel, O. F 

White, Charles 

CALIFORNIA. 

Ames, Marv E. Pulsifer 

liarues, G. W 

iJlake, J. W 

C^aufuld, Dr. C. A 

( hem y, Dr. W. F 

Compti n. Dr. A. J 

Naval Hospital 

Thornton, Dr. W. W 

COLORADO. 

Byers, W, N 

(;roft,Cl.J 

Davies, George VV 

Merriam, A. M 

Nettleton, E. S , 



Carlowville, Dallas County. 
Huntsville, Madison County, 
Selma, Dallas County. 
Coatopa, Sumter County. 
Moult on, Lawrence County. 
Elyton, Jeli'erson County. 
Havana, Hale County. 
Mobile, Baldwin County. 



Sitka, Saint Paul Island. 



Mineral Springs, Hempstead County. 
Clarksville, Johnson County. 
Pocahontas, Kaudolph County. 
Fayetteville, Washington County. 
Helena, Phillips County. 
Washington, Hempstead County. 



Indian Valley, Plumas Countj'. 
San Diego, San Diego County. 
Visalia, Tulare County. 
Monterey, Monterey County. 
Chico, Butte County. 
Watsonville, Santa Cruz County. 
Benicia, Sokino County. 
Cahto, Mendocino County. 



Denver, Arapahoe County. 
Fountain, El Paso County. 
Golden City, (Jarvia College,) Jefferson 

County. 
Templeton's Gap, El Paso County. 
Colorado Springs, El Paso County. 



64 METEOROLOGICAL STATIONS AND OBSERVERS. 

List of meteorological stations and observers for the year 1871 — Contiuued. 



Name of observer. 



COXXECTICUT. 



Alcott, Williiiiu P 

Aadrews, L 1 - 

Rockwell, Charlotte 

Ward, H. D. A., and John Jolm.stou. 



Yeomans, W. G 



PAKOTA. 



Dorsey, Rev. J. Owen 

DELAWARE. 



Bateman, J. H 
Gilmau, R. H . 



Atwood, G. W 

Baldwin, Dr. A. S 

Barker, E 

Beeclier, Rev. C 

Chamberlain, S. N 

Lowd, E. K 

Powell, Charles F 

Robinson, General G. D. 

Thralls, George R 

White, W. F 



Barker, E 

Cutter, John L 

Deckner, F., & Son . 

Ilillyer, H. L 

Holliiield,H()rittioN. 
McCliitcbeu, A. R... 
Sauford, S. P 



Brendel, F. 

Brookes, S 

Carey, Daniel 

Chase, Dr. D. H 

Cochrane, J 

Dudley, T 

Duncan, Rev. A 

Fiuley, Dr. T 

Gramesly, C 

Grant, J. and MissM 



Address. 



North Greenwich, Fairfield County. 
Southiugton, Hartford County. 
Colebrot>k, Litchfield County. 
Middletown, (Wesleyau University,) Mid- 
dlesex County. 
Columbia, Tolland County. 



Ponka Agency, Todd County. 



Dover, Kent County. 
Mil ford, Kent County. 



Saint Angnstinoj Saint John's County. 
Jacksonville, Duval County. 
Ocala, Marion County. 
Newport, Waculla County. 
Mosquito Inlet, Volusia County. 
New Smyrna, Volusia County. 
Bicalata, Saint John's County. 
Pilatka, Putnam County. 
Wclborii, Snwauce (!ounty. 
Tampa, Hillsborough County. 



Saint Mary's, Camden County. 
Quitman, Brooks County. 
Atlanta, Fulton County. 
Berne, Camden County. 
Sandersville, Washington County. 
Lafoyette, Walker County. 
Penlield, Greene County. 



Adams, W. H Elmons Peoria County. 

Aldrich, Verry Tiskihva, Bureau County 

Bowman, M. B Andalusia, Rock Island C' 



County. 
l'(>oria, Peoria County. 
Chicago, Cook County. 
Rochelle, Ogle County. 
Louisville, Clay County. 
Havana, Mason County. 
Decatur, Macon County. 
Mount Sterling, Brown County. 
Pann, Christian County. 
Charleston, Coles County. 
Manchester, Scott County. 
Quincy. Adaius (Jounty. 



Hearue, F. J 

Henry, W. E Mattoon, Coles County. 

James' J. W Marengo, McHenry County. 

Jozefdl Dr. C [ Waterloo, Monroe County. 

Langguth, J. G Chicago, Cook County. 

Livingston, Professor W Galesl)urgh, (Lombard University,) Kuox 

County. 
Marcy, Professor O E vanston , (Northwestern University,) 

Cook Co\jnty. 



METEOROLOGICAL STATIONS AND OBSERVERS. 65 

List of meteorological stations and observers for the year 1871 — Continued. 



Name of observer. 



Address. 



Illinois — Continued. 



Mead,S.B 

Moss, G. B 

Murray, Peter 

Osborn, Ethan 

Patterson, H. N 

PLelps, E. S. and Miss L. E . 

Putter, A. W 

►Spauldinji:, A., and Mrs. E. D 

fS penccr, W. C 

Whitalicr, B 



Alden, Tliomas E 

Andrew, F. G 

Applegate, J. A., and daughter 

Boerner, C.G 

Ohappelsniith, J 

Olark.W. S 

Crosier, A 

Curtis, J. W 

Dawson, W 

Deem, D 

Hadley, Dr., and others 

Howard, J. K 

Loughridge, Dr. J. H 

MallW, T. H 

McCov, Dr. S. and Miss 

McHeiiry, B. F 

Robertson, R. S 

Spitler, D 

Sutton, G 

Thralls, Geo. R 

Williams, Mrs. B. C 



Adams, Ernest 

Ashby, M. V 

Babcock, E 

Bryant, Mrs. J. A . . 
Collin, Professor A. 

Croft, CI. L 

Dickinson, J. P 

Farnsworth, P. J . . . 

Gilbert, A. P 

Horr, Dr. Asa 

Manslield, A. A 



Marshall, Gregory 

MeCliutock, F 

McCready, D 

Miller, E. aud R 

Nelson, D. B 

Parvin, Professor T. S. 

Ross, F. A 

Russell, A. M 

Sheldon, D. S 

Smith, Rufus P 

Steru, Jacob F 

Talbot, Benjamin 

Townsend, N 

5s 71 



Augusta, Hancock County. 
Belvidere, Boone County. 
New Manchester, Scott County. 
Heunepin, Putnam County. 
Oquawka, Henderson County. 
Wyanet, 13ureau County. 
Mattoon, Coles County. 
Aurora, Kane County. 
Dubois, Washington County. 
Warsaw, Hancock County. 



Rising Siiu, Ohio County. 
Laporte, Laporte County. 
Mount Carmel, Franklin County. 
Vevay, Switzerland County. 
New Harmony, Posey County. 
Beech Grove, Rush County. 
Laconia, Harrison County. 
Warsaw, Kosciusko County. 
Spiceland, Henry County. 
Knightstown, Rush County. 
Indianapolis, Marion County. 
Livonia, Washington County. 
Rensselaer, Jasper County. 
Bloomington, (Univ'y.) Monroe County. 
Columbia City, Whitley County. 
Merom, Sullivan County. 
Fort Wayne, Allen County. 
Kentlaud, Newton County. 
Aurora, Dearborn County. 
Warsaw, Kosciusko County. 
Annapolis, Parke County. 



Ames, Story County. 

Afton, Union County. 

Boonesborough, Boone County. 

Fontanelle, Adair County. 

Mount Vernon, Linn County. 

Webster City, Hamilton County. 

Guttenberg, Clayton County. 

Clinton, Clinton County. 

Lemars, Plymouth County. 

Dubuque, Dubuque County. 

Mount Pleasant, (University,) Henry 

County. 
Cresco, Howard County. 
West Union, Fayette County. 
Fort Madison, Lee County. 
Grant City, Sac County. 
Sac City, Sac County. 
Iowa City, (University,) Johnson County. 
Durant, Cedar County. 
West Branch, Cedar County. 
Davenport, Scott County. 
Monticello, Jones County. 
Logan, Harrison County. 
Council Blutf, Pottawattomie County. 
Iowa Falls, Hardin County. 



m 



METEOROLOGICAL STATIONS AND OBSERVERS. 



List of meteorological stations and observers for the year 1S~1 — Continued. 



Name of observer. 



Address. 



Iowa — C o o t i d ued . 

Wadey, H 

Wai ne, Dr. G 

Warren, J. H 

Wheaton, Mrs. D. B 

Witter, D. K 

Wood worth, S 

KANSAS. 

Adams, Ernest 

Beckvvith, W 

Cotton, J. M 

Daniels, P 

Fof^le, D 

Horn, Dr. H. B., and Miss 

Hoskinson, R. M 

lugraham & Hvland 

Lamb, Dr. W. M 

Mudge, Professor B. F 

Parker, J. D 

Richardson, A. G 

Shoemaker, J. G 

Snow, Professor F. H 

Stayman, Dr. J 

Walrad, L. D 

Walters, Dr. J 

Wood worth, A 

KENTUCKY. 

Beatty, O 

Horr, Ed w. W 

Martin, Dr. S. D 

Shri ver. Howard 

Young, Mrs. Lawrence 

LOUISIANA. 



Cleland, Rev. T. H.... 

Collins, H. C 

Foster, Captain R. W. 
Moore, Dr. Jos. L 



Clitlbrd, A. J 

Cliilord, J. R 

Fcriial(l,C. II.... 
Fernald, M. C... 
Gardiner, R. H.. . 
(iuptill, G. W.... 
Haskell, Willabe. 

Mayo, E. D 

^loore, Asa P 

Moulton. J. P 

I'arker, J. D 

Pitman, Edwin. 



Rockford, Floyd County. 
Independence, Buchanan County. 
Algoua, Kossuth County. 
Independence, Buchanan County. 
Woodbine, Harrison County. 
Boweu's Prairie, Jones County. 



Williamstown, Jefferson County. 
Olathe, Johnson County. 
Williamstown, Jefferson County. 
Crawfordsville, Crawford County. 
Williamsburgh, Franklin County. 
Atchison, Atchison County. 
Burlingame, Osage County. 
Baxter Springs, Cherokee County. 
Douglas, Butler Couutj". 
Manhattan, (Agricultural College,) Riley 

County. 
Burlington, Coffey County. 
Plum Grove, Batler County. 
Leroy, Coffee County. 
Lawrence, (Univ'y,) Douglas County. 
Leavenworth, Leavenworth County. 
Paola, Miami County. 
Holton, Jackson County. 
Council Grove, Morris County. 



Danville, Boyle County. 
Blandville, Ballard County. 
Pine Grove, Clarke County. 
Arcadia, Lincoln County. 
Si)ringdale, Jefferson County. 



Delhi, Richland Parish. 
Ponchatoula, Tangipahoa Parish. 
New Orleans, Orleans I'arish 
Shreveport, Caddo Parish. 



Montville, Waldo County. 
Montville, Waldo County. 
Houlton, Aroostook County. 
Orono, Penobscot County. 
Gardiner, Kennebec County. 
Cornish, York County. 
Bucksport, Hancock County. 
Brewer Village, I'enobscot County. 
Lisbon, Androscoggin County. 
Staudish, Cumberland County. 
Mount Desert, Hancock County. 
Barnard, Piscataquis County. 
East Wilton, Franklin County. 



Rej'nolds, Henry 

Smith, H. D I Norway, Oxford County 

Tripp, Oscar II ' Surry, Hancock County. 

AVeut worth, B. C ! Montville, Waldo County 



METEOROLOGICAL STATIONS AND OBSERVERS. 67 

List of meteorological stations and ohscrvcrs for the year 1871 — Continued. 



Name of observer. 



Maine— Contijined. 



West, Silas.... 
Wilbur, Beu. J 



MARYLAND. 



Curtiss, G.G 

Devilbiss, F. J 

Elliott, J.F 

Goodniau, W. R 

Hansbew, C. F 

Hanshew, ,7. K 

Joiirdau, Professor C. H. 



McCormick, J. O 

Naval Hospital 

Shepberd, IL M 

Sbriver, E. T 

Stepbeusou, Rev. Jauies, aud otbers. 
Valeute, A. X 



MASSAcnusp:TTS. 



Bacon, W 

Bixby, J. H 

Caldwell, J. H 

Cunuiiigbam, George A 

Dewbiirst, Rev. E 

Fallou, J 

Frost, B. D 

Hart, George S 

Hopkius, Professor A., aud Frederic Marcy. 

Merriam, S. A 

Metcalf, Dr. J. G 

Morrill, D. T., M. Beuiis, aud D. Lovejoy.. 



Nason, Rev. E 

Nelson, H. M 

Newcomb, G. S 

Perry, Mrs. S. H 

Rodman, S 

S-nell, Professor E. S . 

Teele, Rev. A. K 

Tucker, E. T 



MICHIGAN. 



Bullard, R 

Ellis, Dr. Edwiu 

HiggiuH, F. W 

Holmes, Dr. E. S 

Howell, D 

Kedzie, Professor R. C . 

Kemp, Professor A. F . . 

Mapes, H. H 

Pattison, H. A 

Paxton, J. W 

8mitb, Rev. G. N 

Soutbwortb, N. L 

Streug, L. H 

Wells, L. E 



Address. 



Coruisb, York County. 

West Waterville, Kc-unebec County. 



Fallston, Harford County. 
Sau's Creek, Carroll County. 
Saint Inigoes, Saint Mary's County. 
Annapolis, Anne Arundel County. 
Linwod, Carroll County. 
Frederick, Frederick County. 
Emmittsburgb, (Mount Saint Mary's Col- 
lege, J Frederick County. 
Woodlawn, Cecil County. 
Annapolis, Anne Arundel County. 
Ellicott City, Howard County. 
Cumberland, Allegbany County. 
Saint Inigoes, Saint Mary's County. 
Woodstock, (College,) Baltimore County. 



Ricbmond, Berksbire County. 

West Newton, Middlesex County. 

Newburyport, Essex County. 

Lunenburg, Worcester County. 

Hinsdale, Berksbire County. 

Lawrence, Essex County. 

Hoosac Tunnel, Berksbire County. 

New Bedford, Bristol County. 

Williamstowu, (Williams College,) Berk- 
sbire County. 

Toiisfield, Essex County. 

Mendon, Worcester County. 

Worcester, (Lunatic Hosi)ital,) Worcester 
County. 

Nortb Billerica, Middlesex County. 

Georgetown, Essex County. 

Kingston, Plymouth County. 

Cambridge, Middlesex County. 

New Bedford, Bristol County, 

Amberst, (College,) Hampsbire County. 

Milton, Norfolk County. 

New Bedford, Bristol Countv. 



Litcbfield, Litcbfield County. 

Ontonagon, Ontonagon County. 

Detroit, Wayne County., 

Grand Rapids, Kent County. 

Macon, Lenawee County. 

Lansing, (Agricultural College,) Ingbam 

County 
Olivet, (College,) Eaton County. 
Kalamazoo, Kalamazoo County. 
Muskegon, Muskegon County. 
Alpena, Alpena County. 
Noithport, Leelenau County. 
Coldwater, Branch County. 
Grand Rapids, Kent County. 
Battle Creek. Calhoun Couutv. 



68 METEOROLOGICAL STATIONS AND OBSERVERS. 

List of meteorological statiotis and observers for the year 1871 — Continued. 



Name of observer. 



Atldress. 



Michigan— Continued. 

Wbelpley, Miss H., and Thomas 

Whittlesey, S. H 

Wilson, W 

Winchell, Professor, and Mrs. N. H 

MINNESOTA. 

Cheney, William 

McMahon, Dr. H 

Paterson, Rev. A. B 

Pyle, Dr.D 

Roe, A. L 

Roos, Charles 

Wadsworth, H. L 

Wieland, C 

Winters, J. K. P 

Woodburv, C. W., and C. E 

Young, T. M 

MISSISSIPPI. 

Bowden, L. A 

Coleman, T. B 

Florer,Dr. T. W 

Jackson, R. S 

Jennings, Dr. S. H 

Keenan, Miss W^. E. A 

Lull, James S., and John F. Tarrant 

Payne, John S 

Robinson, Rev. E. S 

MISSOUPvI. 

Bond, P. J 

Coltrane, T. W 

De Wyl, N 

Fendler Aug 

Harris, Wy att 

Jones, Jno. P 

Kaucher, William 

Martin, Horace 

McCord, R. H - 

Ruggles, H 

Salisbury, S. W 

Smith, John M 

Stuntebeck, Rev. F. II., and A. Aver beck.. 



Goddard, E. X 

Minesinger, J. M 

Stuart, Granville 

NEBP.ASKA 

Caldwell, Mrs. E. E 

Dunn, William 

Hamilton, Rev. W 

.Seltz, Charles 

Smith, L. H 

Truman, George S 

Zahner, P 



Monroe, Monroe County. 
Copper Falls, Keweenaw County. 
Benzonia, Benzie County. 
Ann Arbor, Washtenaw County. 



Minneapolis, Hennepin County. 
Leech Lake, Cass County. 
Saint Paul, Ramsey County. ' 
Sylvan Park, Becker County. 
Afton, Washington County. 
New Ulm, Brown County. 
Litchfield, Meeker County. 
Beaver Bay, Lake County. 
Beaver, Winona County. 
Sibley, Sibley County. 
Koniska, McLeod County. 



Philadelphia, Neshoba County. 
Holly Springs, Marshall County. 
Marion, Lauderdale County. 
Clinton, (College,) Hinds County. 
Baldwin, Lee County. 
Brookhaven, Lawrence County. 
Columbus, Lowndes County. 
Grenada, Yalabusha County. 
Enterprise, Jasper County. 



Nevada, Vernon County. 
Cave Spring, Greene County. 
Jefferson City, Cole County. 
Allenton, Saint Louis County. 
Mount Vernon, Lawrence County. 
Keytesville, Chariton County. 
Oregon, Holt County. 
Corning, Holt County. 
Willard, Greene County. 
Rolla, Phelps County. 
Kansas City, Jackson County. 
Hematite, jeli'erson County. 
Saint Louis, (University,) Saint Louis 
County. 



Virginia City. Madison Connty. 

Missoula, Missoula County. 

Deer Lodge City, Deer Lodge County. 



Bellevue, Sarpy County. 

Emerson, Otoe County. 

Omaha Agency, Burt County. 

De Soto, Washington County. 

New Castle, Dixon County. 

Santee Agency, L'Eau qui Court County. 

Nebraska City, Otoe County. 



METEOROLOGICAL STATIONS AND OBSERVERS. 69 

List of meteorological stations and ohservers for the year 1871 — Continued. 



Name of observer. 



NEW HAMPSHIRE. 



Brewster, Alfred. 
Brown, Braacli,.. 
Colbv, Alfred.... 

Couch, E.D 

HuntiDgtou, J. H. 
Knrlin, Rev. W.. 

Kidder, L. D 

Odell, F 



Address. 



NEW JERSEY. 

Beaus, Thomas J 

Brooks, William 

Chandler, Dr. W. J 

Cook, E. R 

Flemin jr, J 

Green, H. A 

Howard, Thomas T,jr 

Ingram, Dr. J 

Noll, A. B 

Palmer, Mrs. J. R 

Perry, H. C 

Sheppard, Miss R, C 

Whitehead, W. A 

NEW YORK. 

Adriauce, Chas. E 

Albro, S. H., and Love. S. G. 

Arden, T. B '. 

Arnold, C. P 

Baker, Gilbert D 

Barrett, A.J 

Barrows, Captain S 

Bartlett, E. B 

Brownell, W. A 

Bussing, J. W., and D. S 

Clarke, B. W 

Cooley, Professor J. S 

Edwards, D 

Gardiner, J. H 

Godfrey, M. P 

Haas, H 

Hacheuberg, Dr. G. P 

Heimstreet, Juo. W 

Hendricks, D. B 

Howell, R 

Hunt, G. M 

Ingalsbe, G. M 

Irish, Rev. Wm 

Ives, W 

Jones, W. Martin 

Johnson, Rev. S. W 

Keese, G. P 

Lee, Leslie A 

Mack, E. T 

Mailler, I. P 

Malcolm, W. S 



Tamworth, Carroll County. 

Stratford, Coos County. 

Gotfstown Center, Hillsborough County. 

Contoocookville, Merrimack County. 

Hanover, Coos County. 

South Antrim, Hillsborough County. 

Whitefield, Coos County. 

Shelburne, Coos County. 



Moorestown, Burlington County. 
Paterson, Passaic County. 
South Orange, Essex County. 
Trenton, Mercer County. 
Readington, Hunterdon County. 
Atco, Camden County. 
Jersey City, Hudson County. 
Vinoland, Cumberland County. 
New Germantown, Hunterdon County. 
Rio Grande, Cape May County. 
Allowaystown, Salem County. 
Greenwich, Cumberland County. 
Newark, Esses County. 



Hector. Schuyler County. 
Jamestown, Chautauqua County. 
Garrison's, Putnam County. 
Angelica, Allegany County. 
Himrods, Yates County. 
Lowville, Lewis County. 
South Trenton, Oneida County. 
Vermillion, Oswego County. 
Fairiield, Herkimer County. 
Minaville, Montgomery County. 
Lockport, Niagara County. 
Fort Edward, SVashington County. 
Little Genesee, Allegany County. 
Newburgh, Orange County. 
Carlton, Orleans County. 
Depauville, Jefierson County. 
Rochester, Monroe County. 
Troy, Rensselaer County. 
Kingston, Ulster County. 
Nichols, Tioga County. 
North Argyle, Washington County. 
South Hartford, Washington County. 
Lowville, Lewis County. 
Buffalo, Erie County. 
Suspension Bridge. 
Newark Valley, Tioga County. 
Cooperstown, Otsego County. 
Canton, Saint Lawrence County. 
Flatbush, Kings County. 
Brooklyn, Kings County. 
Oswego, Oswego County. 



70 METEOROLOGICAL STATIONS AND OBSERVERS. 

List of meteorological stations and observers for the year 1S71 — Continued. 



Name of observer. 



New York — Continued. 

McNntt, Randolph 

Merritt, Jno. C, jr 

Miller, J. Dewitt 

Morris, Miss E 

Morris, Professor O. W 

Naval Hospital 

Partrick, J. M 

Roe, Sanford W 

Russell, C.H 

Sawyer, G. F 

Smith, E. A., and daughters 

Soule, Professor W 

Spooner, Dr. S 

Trowbridge, D 

Willis, O. R., and daughters 

Wooster, C. A 

Yale, Walter D 

Young, J. M 

NORTH CAROLINA. 

Adams, Professor E. W 

Allison, T. P 

Aston, Edw. J 

Austin, Robert 11 

Beall,R.L 

Benton, A. A 

Greene, J. H 

Hanna, George B 

Hardy, Dr. J. F. E 

Harrell, John A 

Hicks, Dr. W.R 

Howard, S. A 

Kron, F. J 

Lawrence, G. W 

Murdoch, W. H 

Norfleet, Thos 

Sherwood, Jno. M 

OHIO. 

Ballantine, W 

Barringer, W 

Bingman, T. J., and King, J. P. . . 

Burras, O 

Clarke, J 

Crane, G. W 

Doyle, .Joseph B 

Dunn, F. K 

Ferriss, E. .1 

Hammitt, .Jno. W 

Harper, G. W 

Haywood, Professor J 

Herrick, L 

Huntingdon, G. C, and D. Iv 

Hyde,(i. A 

Irwin, Dr. A. C 

Marsh, Mrs. M. M 

Mathews, J. McD 

McFarland, Professor R. W 

]\IcCune, Dr. James 

Morton, Dr. George R 



Address. 



Warrcnsburgh, Warren County. 
Farmiugdale, Queens County. 
Fort Edward, VV^ashington County. 
Throg's Neck, Westchester County. 
New York, New York County. 
New York, New York County. 
North Volney, Oswego County. 
Middleburgh, Schoharie County. 
Gouverneur, Saint Lawrence County. 
Fairfield, Herkimer County. 
Moriches, Suffolk County. 
Cazenovia, (Seminary,) Madison County. 
Oneida, Madison County. 
Waterburgh, Tompkins County. 
White Plains, Westchester County. 
North Hammond, Saint Lawrence County. 
Houseville, Lewis County. 
West Day, Saratoga County. 



Goldsborough, Wayne County. 
Statesville, Iredell County. 
Asheville, Buncombe County. 
Tarborough, Edgecombe County. 
Lenoir, Caldwell County. 
Edentou, Chowan County 
Bakersville, Mitchell County. 
Charlotte, (Mint,) Mecklenburgh County. 
Asheville, Buncombe County. 
Weldon, Halifax County 
Oxford, Granville County. 
Greensborough, Guilford County. 
Albemarle, Stanley County. 
Fayetteville, Cumberland County. 
Raleigh, Wake County. 
Tarborough, Edgecombe County. 
Fayetteville, Cumberland County. 



Sago, ^luskingum County. 
15ellefontain<s Logan County. 
Pennsvillf, Morgan County. 
North l-'airlifld, Huron County. 
Bowling Green, Wood County. 
Bethel, Clermont County. 
Steubenville, .JelVerson County. 
(iaml)ier, Knox County. 
Painsville, I^akt- County. 
College Hill. Hamilton County. 
Cincinnati, Hamilton County. 
Westerville, (Univ'y,) Franklin County. 
Oberlin, Lorain County. 
Kelley's Island, Erie County. 
Cleveland, Cuyahoga County. 
Farmer, Defiance County. 
Ripley, Huron County. 
Hillsbiuough, Highland County. 
Oxford, (jiiaiui I'niv'y,) Butler County. 
Mount Gilead, Morrow County. 
North Bass Island, Ottawa County. 



METEOROLOGICAL STATIONS AND OBSERVERS. 71 

List of meteorological stations and observers for the year 1871 — Continued. 



Name of observer. 



Address. 



Ohio — Continued. 



Muller, Dr. R 

Neill, Thomas 

Owsley, Dr. J. B 

Pettenger. I. McK 

Phillips, R. C 

Pollock, Rev, J. E 

Rodgers, Alexander P 

Shaw, Dr. W.S 

Shields, J. H 

Shreve, C. R., and Martha. 

Smith, C. J 

Smith, Dr. C.H 

Stillwell, C. A 

Thompson, Rev. D 

True, Dr. H. A 

White, J. H 



Wilkinson, J. R 

Williams, Professor M. G. 
Winger, M 



OREGON". 

Oxer, H. A., and J. S. Reed. 

Pearce, Thomas 

Wilson, Louis 



PENNSYLVANIA. 



Albree, C. and George. 

Beutley, E. T 

Black, Samuel A 

Cook, Dr. W. H 

Corson, M. H 

Cummings, J 

Curtis, A. W 

Darlington, F 

Day, Tlieodore 

Feicht, B 

Fenton, E 

Grathwohl, John 

Hance, E 

Haworth, J 

Hofler, Dr. J. R 

Hubbs, Dr. J. Allen . . . 
James, Professor C. S. 

Jefferis, W. A 

Kirkpatrick, J. A 

Kohler, E 

Lefever, Jacob 

Madlem, William F 



Carthageua, Mercer Count j'. 
Sandusky, Erie County. 
Jacksonburgh, Butler County. 
Berea, Cuyahoga County. 
Cincinnati, Hamilton County. 
Salem, Columbiana County. 
Gallipolis, Gallia County. 
Savannah, Ashland County. 
Cincinnati, Hamilton County. 
Martin's Ferry, Belmont County. 
Hudson, Summit County. 
Kenton, Hardin County. 
Adams' Mills, Muskingum County. 
New Birmingham, Guernsey County. 
Marion, Marion County. 
Cincinnati, (Mount Auburn Ladies' Insti- 
tute,) Hamilton County. 
Williamsport, Pickaway County. 
Urbaua, (University,) Champaign County. 
Wooster, Wayne County. 



Portland, Multnomah County. 
Eola, Polk County. 
Astoria, Clatsop County. 



Pittsburgli, Allegheny County. 

Tioga, Tioga County. 

Harrisburgh, Dauphin County. 

Carlisle, Cumberland County. 

Plymouth Meeting, Montgomery County. 

Tarentum, Alleghany County. 

Catawissa, Schuylkill County. 

Parkersville, Chester County. 

Dyberry, Wayne County. 

Alleghany City, Alleghany County. 

Grampian Hills, Cleartield County. 

Nyce's, Pike County. 

Fallsington, Buck's County. 

Hazleton. Luzerne County. 

Mount Joy, Lancaster County. 

Brownsville, Fayette County. 

Lewisburgli, Union County. 

Westchester, Chester County. 

Philadelidiia, Philadelphia County. 

Egypt, Lehigh County. 

Mount Rock, Cuml)erland County. 

Ephrata. Lancaster County. 

Marsden, Dr. J. H \ ^'ork Sulphur Springs, Adams County. 

Martin, Dr, George ' West Chester, Chester County. 

McConnell, E. M | New Castle, Lawrence County. 

Meehan, T i German town, Philadelphia County. 

Naval Hospital i Philadelphia, Philadelphia County. 

Packard, D. P j Greenville, Mercer County. 

Peelor, D Johnstown, Cambria County. 

Raser, J. Heyl Reading. Berks County. 

Sisson, R Factory ville, Luzerne County. 

Smith, Dr. W Canuonsl)urg, (Col.,) Washington County. 

Sj)encer, Miss Anna Horsham, Montgomery County. 



72 METEOROLOGICAL STATIONS AND OBSERVERS. 

List of meteorological stations and observers for the year 1871 — ContinuetL 



Name of observer. 



Address. 



Penxsylvaxia — Continued. 



Spera,W. H 

Stocker, J. D , 

Stump, J. M. L 

Taylor, John 

Taylor, Rev. R.T... 
Toiman, Rev. M. A. . 

Turner, E 

Walker, S. C 



RHODE ISLAND. 



Barber, W. A 



SOUTH CUiOLINIA. 



Cornish, Rev. J. H. 
Gibbon, Lardner . . 
Petty, Charles 



TEXXESSEE. 



Bancroft, Rev. C. F. P 

Calhoun, P. B 

Doak, S. S. i&. W. S 

Franklin, Dr. W. E 

Grigsby, WiUiam T 

Lewis, C. H 

Payne, Professor J. K 

Stewart, Professor W 



Wright, T. P. 



Anderson, Rev. J 
Baxter, Miss E . . . 
Davis, Samuel . . . 

Fietsam, J 

Glasco, J. M 

Heaton, L. D 

Leoni, George N . 

Martin, Allen 

Pettersen, F 

Simpson, F 

Van Nostrand, J . 



Wade, F. S 

AVhite, Dr. A. C . 



Ephrata, Lancaster County. 
Hamliutown, Wayne County. 
Greensburgh, Westmoreland County. 
Connellsville, Fayette County. 
BeaA'er, Beaver County. 
Franklin, Venango County. 
Gerniantown, Philadelphia County. 
Fountaindale, Adams County. 



Newport, Newport County. 



Aiken, Barnwell County. 

Hacienda Saluda, Greenville County. 

Gowdeysville, Union County. 



Lookout Mountain, Hamilton County. 
Austin, Wilson County. 
Greeneville, Greene County. 
Lagrange, Fayette County. 
Trenton, Gibson County. j 

Elizabethtown, Carter County. 
Knoxville, (University,) Knox County. 
Clarksville,(StewartCollege,)Montgomery 

County. 
Clearmont, Warren County. 



Clarksville, Red River County. 

Houston, Harris County. 

Deloraine, Hunt County. 

Blutf, Fayette County. 

Gilmer, Upshur County. 

Lavaca, Calhoun County. 

Clear Creek Station, Galveston County. 

Clarksville, Red River County. 

San Antonio, Bexar County. 

Oakland, Texas County. 

Austin, (Institution for Deaf and Dumb,); 

Travis County. 
Sand Fly, Burleson County. 
Clinton, De Witt County. 



Ballock, T 

Ford, A. C, and Charles Vieweg. 

Lewis, James 

Phelps, W.W 



VERMONT. 



Coalville, Summit County. 
Camp Douglas. Salt Lake County. 
Harrisburgh, Washington Couutj'. 
Salt Lake City, Salt Lake County. 



Panton. Addison County. 
Lunenl)urjrh. Essex Countv. 



Barto, D. C. and M. E 

Cutting, H. A 

Doton, H.. and L. A. Miller I Woodstock. Windsor County. 

Gilmour, A. H. J Saint Albans. Franklin County- 
Kennedy. J. C South Troy, JL)rleaus County. 



METEOROLOGICAL STATIONS AND OBSERVERS. 73 

List of meteorological stations and ohservers for the year 1871 — Coiitiiuied. 



Name of observer. 


Address. 


Vekmoxt— Continued. 
Paine C S 


East Bethel, Windsor Conntv. 




Norwich, Windsor Conntv. 




Mount Anthony, Bewuin<;ton County. 


Wild, Rev.E. P 

Williams, Rev. R. G 

Wiug, Minerva E 


Craftsbury, Orleans C'onuty. 

Castleton, (Normal School,) Rutland 

County. 
Charlotte, Chittenden County. 



Vir.GLN'IA. 

Binford, R 

Bowman, G. A 

Brown, Rev. James A. 

Campbell, Professor J. L , 

Chamberlin, Mrs. S. E 

Clarke, Dr. James T, and Miss Bell Clarke 

Covell, J. C ^ 

Gillingham, C 

Home, Captain D. B 

Jones B. W 

Martin, W. A 

Meriwether, C. J 

Moore, C. R 

Naval Hospital 

Payne, D 

Robey, Randolph 

Sherman, J, M 

Tayloe, E. T 

Thrift, MissL. R. 

Townsend, Emma C 

Williams, F 

Williams, H.C 

WASHINGTON TERPaXORY. 

McCall,C 

Sampson, Alex. M 

Whitcomi), Thomas M 



WEST \^RGINIA. 



Owen, Benjamin. 
Koffe.CL 



WISCONSIN. 

Beloit College 

Breed, E.E 

Curtis, W. W 

Daniells, Professor W. W.. 

De Lyser, John 

Dungan, J. L 

Foyo, Proiessor J. C 

Lapham, I. A., LL. D 

Llips, Jacob and Miss C . . 

Mead, H.C 

O'Donoghoe, J 

Pegler, Rev. G 

Shints, H.J 



Zuni Station, Isle of Wight County. 
Vienna, Fairfax County. 
Wytheville, Wythe County. 
Lexington, Rockbridge County. 
Waterford, Loudon County. 
Mount Solon, Augusta County. 
Staunton, Augusta County. 
Mount Vernon Township, Fairfax County. 
Cedar Hill, Albemarle County. 
Bacon's Castle, Surry County. 
Piedmont Station, Fauquier County. 
Lynchburgh, Bedford County. 
Johnsontown, Northampton County. 
Norfolk, Norfolk County. 
Markham Station, Fauquier County. 
Vienna, Fairfax County. 
Hampton, Elizabeth City County. 
Comorn, King George County. 
Fairfax Court-House, Fairfax County. 
Capeville, Northampton County. 
Piedmont, Fauquier County. 
Vienna, Fairfax County. 



Cathlamet, Wahkiakum County. 
Port Angelos, Clallam County. 
Union Ridge, Clarke County. 



Weston, Lewis County. 
Cabell C. H., Cabell County. 



Beloit, Rock County. 
Embarras, Waupaca County. 
Rocky Run, Columbia County, 
Madison, (University,) Dane County. 
Hinghani, Sheboygan County. 
New Lisbon, Juneau County. 
Appleton, Outagamie County. 
Milwaukee, Milwaukee County. 
Manitowoc, Manitowoc County 
W^aupaca, Waupaca County. 
Mosiuee, Marathon County. 
Tunnel City, Monroe County. 
Edgerton, Rock County. 



74 METEOROLOGICAL STATIONS AND OBSERVERS. 

List of meteorological stations and observers for the year 1871 — Continued. 



Name of observer. 


Address. 




Wautoma, Waushara County. 
Bayfield, Bayfield County. 
Baraboo, Sauk County. 
Geneva, Wabash County. 
Sturgeon Bay, Door County. 

Laramie City, Albany County. 


Tate Andrew . . . . 


Waite M. C 


Whitin'T, W. H 


Wrio-lit^R. M 


WYOMING TERRITORY. 

Pierce, D. J 





METEOROLOGICAL MATERIAL. 75 



ADDITIONAL METEOROLOGICAL MATERIAL RECEIVED IN 
1871 AND KEPT IN THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 

Albrce, (?,, Pittshurgh^ Pennsylvania. — Record of weather aud indica- 
tions. 

Andrews, Luman, Southington, Connecticut. — Chart of auroras seen 
October 14, 1870. 

Ballou, NaJmm E., Sandicich, Illinois. — Monthly abstracts of tempera- 
ture and rain -fall observations. 

Annual abstract for 1871. 

Barnard, A. D., San Buenaventura, California. — Account of northern 
light seen June 17, 1871. 

Barnes, G. W., San Diego, California. — Notes of observations made on 
a trip to the mountains. 

Barraud, A. L., Pacquette''s Ferry, Iowa. — Observations of tempera- 
ture and state of weather at 7 a. m., 12 m., and 8 p. m. 

Bissey, Charles E., Iowa State Agricultural College, Ames, Iowa. — Ac- 
count of aurora seen June 17. 

Bland, T., New To rA.— Meteorological observations in Barbadoes 
October, 1871. 

Boerner, Charles G., Vevay, Indiana. — Observations of August shower 
of meteors. 

Branly, E. H., Amesville, Ohio. — Account of weather aud crops. 

Bryant, A. F., Fontanelle, Iowa. — Account of wind-storm. 

Buchner, H. F., Muco, Creek Nation. — Thermometric observations for 
1861 and 1871 at 7 a. m., 2 and 7 p. m. 

Burras, 0., North Fairfield, Ohio. — Account of the great tornado of 
July 10. 

Bushy, D. Benjamin, Pomaria, South Carolina. — Report of observations 
of wind and rain-fall, for November, 1871. 

Carlton, A. Y., StoutviUe, Camden County, Missouri. — Register of tem- 
])erature and direction of wind from November 13 to November 30, 
1871. 

Central Park, Neic York. — Weekly abstract of barometric aud thermo- 
metric observations at 7 a. m., 2 p. m., and 9 p. m., and of the direction, 
force, and velocity of wind, and amount of cloud aud rain. 

Chase, Pliny E. — Monthly and annual rain-curves at Lisbon. 

Chazaro, M. M., San Juan. — Observacioues meteorologicas en Octobre, 
1871. 

Clarke, John. — Weather predictions for August. 

Clemson, Thomas G. — Climate of South Carolina. 

Cochrane, J. — Account of tornado near Mason City. 

Cockrell, Thomas J, Natchez, 3lississi2)pi. — Daily record of height of 
barometer aud thermometer, a. m., 12 m., aud p. m., and direction 
of wind. (Newspaper slips.) 



76 METEOKOLOGICAL MATERIAL. 

Cunningliam^ G. A,, LuncnhurgJi, Massachusetts. — Monthly rain-table 
from 1841 to 18G8 and monthly means of temperature from 1838 to 1868. 

Curle^ T. J. — Observations in support of theory that anvil-shaped 
clouds always indicate rain. 

Davison^ C. JE., Wayhuid, Michigan. — ^Weather report. 

Doton, Hosca, WoodMocl; Vermont. — Sketch ot" mountains around 
Killington, Vermont. 

Udicards, Daniel, Little Genesee, Ncic Yorlc. — Account of the weather 
during August. 

Engineers, Battalion of, Willcfs Point, New Yorlc Harhor. — Horary 
curves — barometer, thermometer, psychrometer. 

Hieing, Charles G., San Francisco, California. — Monthly report of 
barometric, thermometric, psychrometric, and rain-fall observations at 
8.30 a. m. (Newspaper slips.) 

Table showing quantities of rain falling in each month from 1805 to 
1870. 

Fogle, B., Williamshurgh, Kansas. — Observations of temperature and 
rain-fall, 7 a. m., 2 and 9 p. m. 

Foster, B. W., New Orleans, Loinsiana. — Weather notes for Greenville, 
during October, 18G9. 

Gatchell, E. T. F. — Climate of Colorado Springs. 

Gleason, William, Arion, Maine. — Meteorological record for July, 
(temperature and wind observations at noon.) 

Grady, B. F., Jr. — Condensed meteorological observations for August. 

Grant, W. T. — Diagram of thermometrical observations. 

Green, H. A., Atco, New Jersey. — Register of observations of tempera- 
ture at Atco, New Jersey, May, 1871. Thermometric observations from. 
November, 1870, to March, 1871. 

Greethurst, Joseph, Enterprise. — Monthly report of weather and crops. 

Eannali, 8. Tf., Washhurn, Missouri. — Report of rain-fall in March, 
xVpril, and May. 

Eiggins, F. W., Betroif, Michigan. — Table showing highest and 
lowest range of the thermometer, mean monthly temperature, highest 
and lowest daily mean in each month, amount of rain and melted snow, 
monthly mean of cloudiness, prevailing winds, &c., at AVoodmere Cem- 
etery, near Detroit, Michigan, during the year 1871. 

Eoward, Thomas T.,Jr., Jersey City, New Jcrse?/.— General remarks to 
accompany meteorological reports. 

Quarterly report of meteorogical observations at Jersey City, New 
Jersey. 

Synopsis of meteorological register. 

Eyland, W., Cherolcee County, Kansas. — Monthly weather report. 

Eough, G. ir.— Description of automatic registering and printing ba- 
rometer. 

Jaclcson, George L., VandaUa, Illinois.— Accomit of cold. 

James, J. W., Riley, Elinois. — Summary of meteorological observations 
for the year 1871. 



METEOROLOGICAL MATERIAL. 77 

Jewell^ J. G., M. D., Consul at Singapore. — Cop}" of Sarawak Gazette 
containing rei^ort of temperature and rain-fall on the Qaop estate in 
Sarawak for 1870. 

Keutgen, C, Jr., Staten Island, New YorJ:. — Meteorological observa- 
ious, for the year 1871. 

Synopses of meteorological observations. 

King, Thomas D., Montreal, Canada. — Monthly register of thermom- 
etric and barometric observations. 

King, William, Newton Falls, Ohio. — Temperature observations at 7 a. 
m., 2 and 9 p. m., and diagram of same. 

Langguth, J. G., Jr., Chicago, Illinois. — Account of hail-storm. 

Lapham, I. A., Milwaukee, Wisconsin. — Dates of closing and opening 
of Milwaukee River from 1S3C to 1871, and account of Wisconsin 
meteoric iron. (Newspaper slip.) 

Leoni, George N., Clear Lake, Galveston County, Texas. — Result of 
meteorological observations for July, 1871. 

Lewis, George R., Atlantic, Wyoming Territory. — Monthly report of tem- 
perature and rain-fall. 

Logan, Thomas M., Santa Barbara. — Temperature, vital statistics, &c., 
of Santa Barbara, ("Santa Barbara as a sanitarium," in Scientific Press.) 

Mailler, I. P., Brooklyn, New York. — Account of the earthquake on 
June 19, 1871, (newspaper extract.) 

Mapes, Henry H., Oshtomo, Michigan. — T^Ionthly weather notes. 

Martin, Allen. — Meteorological observations for July, 1871. 

McCall, C, Olympia. — Account of rain-storm. 

McCord, li. H., Springfield, Missouri. — Acount of rain-storm June 5, 
1871. 

Mills, George. — " How it feels to be struck by lightning." 

Moss, G. B., Belridere, Illinois. — Monthly abstracts of register. 

Abstract of register for the years 18G8, 18G9, 1870, 1871. 

Mueller, Dr. E., Carthagena, Ohio. — Monthly record of casual phenom- 
ena, &c. Appendix to register. 

Noll, Arthur B., New Germantown, New Jersey. — Monthly reports of 
range of barometer. 

Odell, Fletcher, Gorham, New Hampshire. — Weather notes from April 
to October, 1871. 

Oicen, Bei^jamin, Weston, Lewis County, West Virginia. — Monthly ob- 
servations of temperature at 7 a. m., 2 p. m., and 9 p. m. 

Palmer, Dr. E. — Scrap-book containing meteorological observations 
for points in Nebraska. 

Pastorelli & Co. — Description of storm rain-gauge, designed by G. J. 
Symons, for observation of rate of fall. 

Patterson, A. B., Saint Paul, Minnesota. — Monthly meteorological notes 
(newspaper slip.) 

Payne, John K., Knoxville, Tennessee. — Account of weather and crops, 
July and August, 1871. 



78 METEOROLOGICAL MATERIAL. 

Peelor, D., Johnstoioi, Pennsylvania. — Table givinfj temperature of the 
earth at depth of 1 foot, from April, 18G9, to April, 1871, inclusive. 

Pettersen, Fred., San A7itonio, Texas.— Diagram representing the 
relative frequency of the different winds, according to observations 
made during three years. 

Mean temperature and rain-fall at San Antonio de Bexar, 1868, 1869, 
1870, 1871. 

Piatt, Luciano, San Salcador. — Observaciones meteorologicas hechas 
en el laboratorio de la faculdad de medecina de San Salvador durante 
la semana noua de 1871. Semana segunda. 

Poole, Henry, Glace Bay, Cape Breton, Nova Scotia. — Meteorological 
register kept during the years 1867, 1868, 1869, 1870, 1871. 

Bedding, Thomas B., J^eivcastle, Indiana. — Account of aurora seen 
June 18. 

Reed, Lyman, li'ew Yorl\ — Lunar monthly weather predictions. 

Sarticell, H. P., Penn Yan, New York. — Eegister of meteorological 
observations. (Prepared for Yates County Whig.) 

Seltz, Charles, Be Soto, Nehrasla.— Account of storm of July 28, 1871. 
(Newspaper slip.) 

Account of rain-storm in Omaha. 

Shepherd, Smiley, Hennepin, Illinois. — Monthly abstract of thermome- 
tric observations. 

Signal-Office, Washington, D. C. — Daily weather maps, 7,35 a.m.; daily 
weather bulletins, 4.35 p. m. 

Barograms for November, 1871. ' 

Sisson, Rodman, Abington, Pennsylvania. — Account of a violent hail 
and wind storm, and account of a terrible tornado at Hopbottom, July 
9, 1872. 

Account of auroral display of October 16, 1871. 

Table showing mean temperature of each year from 1864 to 1870, 
inclusive. 

Slade, ElisUa, Somerset, Massachusetts. — Monthly report of obsen-a- 
tions of maximum, minimum, and mean temperature, direction of wind, 
and state of weather. 

Mean temperature third and fourth quarters 1871. 

Smithsonian Institution, Washington, D. C— Diagrams from recording 
barometer and thermometer. 

Snoic, F. H., Laicrence, ITawsa*.— Summary of meteorological observa- 
tions for the year 1871. 

Barometric, thermometric, and psychrometric observations, 7 a. m., 2 
p. m., 9 p. m.; direction of wind, amount of rain, force of vapor, &c. 

Stephenson, James, Saint Inigoes, Maryland.— ^XeaitheT notes for April, 
1871. 

Steineman, TT., EcMart Mine, Alleghany County, Maryland.— llain-fall 
observations, 1864 to 1868, inclusive. 

Sutton, E. H. — Diagram of meteorological observations. 



METEOROLOGICAL MATERIAL. 79 

Sternberg ^ Gcorf/c 21. — Description of improved anemometer. 

Tayloe, Edicard. — Weather report. 

Tenncnt, Thomas, San Francisco, California. — Eain-fall for parts of 
1849-1850. 

Truman, George S., Santce Agency, Kehraslca. — Monthly report of tem- 
perature, direction of wind, and state of weather. 

Diagrams of parhelia, iSTovember 22, 1871. 

Turner, Ernest, Gcrmantown, Pennsylvania. — Effect of lightning in 
West Philadelphia during storm of July 11, 1871. 

Wadsivorfh, H. L., Litchfield, Minnesota. — Diagram of halo seen from 
Litchfield, December 27, at 9. p. m. 

WaUon, F. P., Muscatine, loica. — Condensed report for 1871. 

Webb, John G., Little Sarasta, Southern Florida. — Notes on two cyclones 
in August, 1871. 

Whitcomb, Thomas M., Union Ridge, Clarice County, Washington Ter- 
ritory. — Aurora observed July 21, 1871. 

White, J. H., Cincinnati, Ohio. — Summary of meteorological observa- 
tions for the year 1871, made at the Mount Auburn Young Ladies' 
Institute. 

Whitehead, W. A., Newarl", Xeic Jersey. — Yearly meteorological report 
for 1871. 

Wilbur, Benjamin F., West Water ville, Maine. — Eain-fall in August, 
1871. 

Williams, H. C, Vienna, Tirginia. — Synopsis of observations made 
by Franklin Williams, of Piedmont, Pauquier County, Virginia. 

Williams, E. G., Castleton, Vermont. — Diagrams exhibiting compari- 
son of Mason's and Boehlen's and Staehlen's hygrometers. 

Wing, Minerva E., West Charlotte, Vermont. — Account of sunrise-phe- 
nomena. 

Eecord of periodic phenomena at West Charlotte, Vermont. 

Weekly meteorological records, (newspaper-slips.) 
< Witter, D. K., Woodbine, Iowa. — Account of the weather. 
' Wright, T. W. A. — Eain-table and remarks on climate for a portion of 
San Joaquin Valley, California. 



80 METEOROLOGICAL ARTICLES. 



METEOROLOGICAL AETICLES EECEIVED BY THE lis'STlTCT- 

TION AND DEPOSITED IX THE LIBRAEY OF CONGRESS, 

1871. 

AURORAS. 

Aurore bor6ale et autres pli«§nomenes m^teorologiques observes en 
Pi6mont le 3 Janvier 1870. 

Aurora polare osservata in Piemonte nel 5 Aprile 1870. P. Fran- 
cesco Denza. 

Le aurore boreali e la loro origine cosmica. Professor G. B. Donati. 

Auroral belt of October 24, 25, 1870. American Journal of Science 
and Art, vol. i, pp. 73, 12G. 

Aurore bor6ale du 9 novembre. Observations faites a Brest, par M. 
Tarry. Comptes-rendus hebdomadaires des seances de Tacademie 
des sciences, tome Ixviii, No. 21. 

Aurores bordales observ6es a Yendome en 1870. E. Eenon. Comptes- 
rendus hebdomadaires des stances de I'academie des sciences, tome 
Ixxii, No. 10. 

Observations on tbe variation of the magnetic declination in connec- 
tion with the aurora of October 14, 1870, by Alfred M. Mayer. Ameri- 
can Journal of Science and Art, vol. i, p. 77. 

Observations sur les relations qui existent entre les apparitions des 
aurores bor(5ales ct les variations de temperature. Ch. Sainte Claire De- 
ville. Comptes-rendus hebdomadaires des seances de I'academie des 
sciences, tome Ixxii, No. 13. 

Eecent auroral displays in the United States. American Journal of 
Science and Art, vol. i, p. 309. 

Relation of auroras to gravitation-currents, by Pliny E. Chase. Amer- 
ican Journal of Science and Art, vol. ii, p. 311. 

Sur les aurores bordales des 9, 18 et 23 avril vues en Italic. L. P. 
Denza. Comptes-rendus hebdomadaires des seances de I'academie des 
sciences, tome Ixxiii, No. 1. 

Sur I'aurore boreale du 9 avril 18G1, observee i\ Angers. A. Cheux. 
Comptes-rendus hebdomadaires des seances de I'academie des sciences, 
tome Ixii, No. 24. 

Sur I'aurore boreale observee en Italic le 12 fevrier 1871. P. Denza. 
Comptes-rendus hebdomadaires des seances de I'academie des sciences, 
tome Ixxii, No. 13. 

Note concernant une aurore boreale et divers autres phenomenes me- 
teorologiques observes en Piemout le 19 juillet 18G9. M^moires de 
I'academie des sciences de I'iustitut de France, tome Ixx. 

EARTHQUAKES. 

Earthquake in New Jersey, Delaware, &c. American Journal of Sci- 
ence and Art, vol. ii, p. 388. 



METEOKOLOGICAL ARTICLES. 81 

Ou the supposed eartliqualic-wave, by Mr. Ellery. TranSiictioiis and 
proceedings of the Eoyal Society of Victoria, vol. ix. 

Osservatione sul terremoto del 2G Agosto ISGO pell' Palmieri. Ilen- 
diconti dell' academia delle scienze lisiclie e matematiche, Sept. 1SG9. 

Alcimi osservazioui in proposito de terremoti di sannicaudro. Een- 
diconti dell' academia delle scienze fisiclie e matematiclie, Sept. 1SG9. 
Palmieri. 

Tremblement de terre a Douai le 25 jauvier ISO". Bulletin asricole 
de I'arrondissement de Douai, aunees 18GG- GT-'oS-'CO. 

Note sur les tremblemeuts de terre eu 18GS, avec supplements pour les 
auuees auterieures. Alexis Perrey. 

Sur les tremblemeuts de terre et les eruptions volcaniques dans Tar- 
cliipel Hawaieu eu 18GS. Par M. Alexis Perrey. 

Los ecos de una tempestad seismica. Yargasia. Boletin de ciencias 
fisicas y naturales de Caracas, No. 5, 1808. A. Eojos. 

ELECTRICITY. 

Notice sur la production successive d'eclairs identiques, aux nieraes 
lieux de I'atmospliere, pendant Torage du 2 juillet ]871, par M. IMon- 
tiguy. Bulletin de I'academie royale des sciences, des lettrcs et des 
beaux arts de Belgique, No. S. 

Memoire sur I'origine celeste de I'electricitd atmosplieric[ue. Comptes- 

rendus liebdomadaires des seances de Tacademie des sciences, tome 

Ixxii, No. 23. 

FORESTS, INFLUENCE OF, ON CLIMATES. 

Annual report and transactions of the Adelaide Philosophical Society 
for the year ending September 30, 1871. Dr. Schomburgh. 

De la temj^erature de I'air hors bois et sous bois. Des quantites 
d'eau tomb^es pres et loin des bois. Par MM. Becquerel et fils. Me- 
moires de I'academie des sciences de I'institut de France, tome xxxv. ■ 

GENERAL METEOROLOGY. 

Suggestions ou a uniiorm system of meteorological observations. 
Utrecht, 1872. 

American -sveather-notes. Pliny E. Chase. Americr.n Journal of Sci- 
ence and Art, vol. ii, p. 08. 

Symptomes du temps, determines par Ivtude des regions superieures 
de I'atmosphere. Comptes-rendus hebdomadaires des seances de I'aca- 
demie des sciences, tome Ixxii, No. 13. 

Zeitschrift der osterreichischen Gesellschaft fiir Meteorologie. Pedi- 
girt von Dr. C. Jelinek und Dr. J. Hahn. Wieu, 1870. 

Fisica del globo. G. Boccardo. Geneva, 1808. 

Verschiedene gesammelte Notizen. Hagenback. Yerhandlungen der 
naturforschenden Gesellschaft in Basel, fiinfter Theil, drittes Heft. 

Repertorium fiir Meteorologie. Herausgegeben von der kaiserlichen 
Akademie der Wisseuschaften. Band ii, lleft i. 
6 s 71 



82 METEOROLOGICAL ARTICLES. 

Sur la loi d'6volution similaire des phenom^nes meteorologiques. A, 
Pociy. Comptcs-rendas hebdomadaires des seances de I'acad^mie des 
sciences, tome Ixxiii, No. 14. 

HAIL. 

Salzhagel vom St. Gotthard. Vierteljalirsscbrift der naturforscheu- 
den Gesellscbaft in Ziiricli. 

Sur la grele tombee le 22 mai 1870, par M. Trecul. Memoires de 
l'acad6mie des sciences de I'institut de France, tome Ixx. 

Memoire sur les zones d'orages a grele dans les d6parteraents d'Eure- 
et-Loir et Loir-et-Cber. Memoires de I'academie des sciences de I'institut 
imperial de France, tome xxxv. 

La bourrasque du 11 juillet et les orages a grele dans Test de la France. 

Guyot. Oomptesrendus bebdomadaires des seances de I'academie des 

sciences, tome Ixxiii, No. 5. 

IIALOS. 

Halo lunaire vu de deux stations diiferentes. W. De Fonvielle. Comp- 
tesreudus bebdomadaires des seances de I'academie des sciences, tome 
Ixxii, No. 0. 

Unusual cxbibitiou of bales. American Journal of Science and Art, 
vol. i, p. 150. 

INSTRUMENTS. 

A barometer without mercury. Journal of tbe Franklin Instituti', 
vol. G2, p. 81. 

Notes on aneroid-barometers and on a method of obtaining tbeir errors. 
Ellery. Transactions and proceedings of tbe Eoyal Society of Victoria, 
vol. ix. 

Tide-gauge for cold climates. Auiericau Joiirual of Science and Art, 
vol. ii, p. G7. J. M. Batcbelder. 

Description d'un meteorograpbe enregistreur, construit pour I'obser- 
vatoire d'Upsal. Dr. A. G. Tlieorell. 

Ueber die Leistungen eines an der k. k. Centralanstalt fiir Meteo- 
rologie befindlicben registrirenden Thermometers. Von Dr. C. Jelinek. 

Ein Barometer ohne Quecksilber. xVus der Natur, neue Folge, 46. Band. 

Formel fiir barometriscbe Hohcnmessung. Verliandlungen der natnr- 
forsclienden Gesellscbaft in Basel, fiinftcr Thcil, drittes Heft. 

Fiillung von Barometerroliren ohne Kochen. Aus der Natur, neue 
Folge, 40. Band. 

Ueber eine Methode zur Fiillung der Baroineterrohren. Archiv der 
Mathematik nnd Physik, dreiundfiinfzigster Theil, viertes Heft. 

Descrizioni dell' igroterraografo del R. osservatorio di Modenadel Prof. 
Domeuico Ragona. Annuario della societa dei naturalisti in Modena, 
anno v. 



METEOROLOGICAL ARTICLES. 6o 

On a new instrument for recording minute variations of atmospheric 
pressure. Wliitebouse Wildman. Proceedings of the Royal Society, 
vol. xix, No. 129. 

LOCAL ]M E T E O R O L O G Y . 

EUROPE. 

AUSTRIA. 

Zeitschrift der osterreichischen Gesellschaft fiir iMeteoroIogie. Redi- 
girt von Dr. C. Jelinek und Dr. J. Dahn. Wien, 1870, 1871. 

Materyaly do klimatografii galicyi zebrane prz^z sekcye meteorolo- 
giczna komisgi fizyograficzny nauk Krakow kok 1870. C. K. Towarzetwa. 

Ueber die tiigliche und jahrliche Periode der relativen Feuchtigkeit, 
Wien, Sitzuugsbericlite der kaiserlichen Akademie der Wissenschafteu. 
Oct. 1870. Wittek. 

BELGIUM. 

Observations des phenomenes periodiques pendant I'annee 18G9. 
(Extrait du tome xxix des Memoires de I'academie royale de Relgique.) 

Annales meteorologiques de I'observatoire royal de Pruxelles, par A. 
Quetelet, 18G9. 

DENMARK. 

Aarsberetning fra det kougelige Landbusholdningselskabs meteo- 
rologiske Komite for 18G8 and 1809. 

EKGLAND AND SCOTLAND. 

London — Quarterly weather-reports of the Meteorological Office, April 
to September, 1870. 

Remarks on the weather during the quarter ending Juue 30, 1871, by 
James Glaisher. 

Proceedings of the Meteorological Society, June, 1871. 

Oxford. — Results of astronomical and meteorologi(;al observations at 
Radcliffe Observatory, Oxford, for the year 18G8, by Robert JMaiu. Ox- 
ford, 1871. 

Brighion. — The climate of Brighton, by Samuel Barker, Edwin Row- 
ley, and Fredk. Ernest Sawyer. (Reprinted from the Brighton Daily 
News, June, 1871.) 

Cormvall. — Meteorological notes for 1870. Journal of the Royal Insti- 
tution of Cornwall, April, 1871. 

Scotland. — Journal of the Scottish Meteorological Society, with tables, 
187L 

FRANCE. 

Note sur le service meteorologique de I'observatoire de Paris. Comp- 
tes-rendus hebdomadaires des seances de Facademie des sciences, tome 
Ixxii, No. 8. Delaunay. 

Note sur I'hiver de 1870-'71. Comptes-rendus hebdomadaires des 
seances de I'academie des sciences, tome Ixxii, No. 10. 



84 METEOROLOGICAL ARTICLES. 

Siir le froid du 9 decembre 1871. Comptes-rendiis liebdomadaiies 
■des stances de Tacademie des sciences, tome Ixxiii, No. 24. 

Siir les froids de decembre 1871. Comptes-rendus hebdomadaires 
des seances de I'academie des sciences, tome Ixxiii, No. 25. 

Des retours periodiques de certains pbenomi^nes en mai, aout et no- 
vembre 1868, fevrier 1809. Memoires de I'academie des sciences de 
I'institut de France, tome xxxv. OIi. Sainte Claire Deville. 

Observations siir le froid de9 decembre en divers points de la France. 
Comptes rendus hebdomadaires des seances de I'academie des sciences, 
tome Ixxiii, No. 25. 

Observations sur*les relations qui existent entre les apparitions des 
aurores boreales et les variations de temperature. Comptes-rendus heb- 
domadaires des seances de racadcmie des sciences, tome Ixxii, No. 13. 

Sur la precocite du froid en 1871. Comptes-rendus hebdomadaires 
des seances de I'academie des sciences, tome Ixxii, No. 21. 

Sur le froid de decembre 1870, et sur la periode des grands hi vers 
signalee, par M. Eenon. Comptes-rendus hebdomadaires des seances 
de I'academie des sciences, tome Ixxii, No. 1. 

Sur les caracteres de I'hiver 1870-71, et sur la comparaison de la tem- 
perature moyenne a I'observatoire de Paris et a I'observatoire meteo- 
rologique central de Montsouris. Comptes-rendus hebdomadaires des 
seances de I'academie des sciences, tome Ixxii, No. 13. 

Sur les froids du 18 mai et des premiers jours de juin. Comptes-ren- 
dus hebdomadaires des seances de I'academie des sciences, tome Ixxii, 
No. 23. 

Balan. — Observations meteorologiques faites par M.Doumet, jau.-juin 
1809. Annales de la societe d'borticulture d'Allier, tome cinquieme. 

Cohnar. — Observations meteorologiques faites a I'ecole normale de 
Colmar pendant I'annee 1809. Eeleve dress6 par M. Ambruster. Bulle- 
tin de la societe d'bistoire uaturelle de Colmar, 1870. 

Paris. — Bulletin met<§orologique de Tobservatoire de Paris. Comptes- 
rendus hebdomadaires des stances de I'academie des sciences, tome Ixii, 
No. 0. 

Tiie same. Tome Ixxiii, Nos. 1, 0, 10, 11, 18, 19, 22. 

Annuaire de la societe meteorologique de France, 1808. 

MontiKlUcr. — L'hiver de 1870-'71 dans le Jardin des plantes de Mont- 
pellier. Ch. Martins. Comptes-rendus hebdomadaires des seances de 
I'academie des sciences, tome Ixxii, No. 18. 

Montsouris. — Bulletin de I'observatoire central de Montsouris. June 
to December, 1870, and 1871 complete. 

Nouvelles meteorologiques. Publiees sous les auspices de la societe 
meteorologique de France et de I'observatoire meteorologique central 
de Montsouris. Oct. 'Nov. Dec. 1870. 

Le Mans. — Observations meteorologiques, par D. Bonhomet. Bulletin 
de la societe d'agriculture, sciences et arts. 

Tours. — Observations meteorologiques faitee par M.De Tastes. An- 



METEOROLOGICAL ARTICLES. 85 

Males de la societe d'agTiculture, sciences, arts et bclles-lettrt-s du de- 
partemeut d'ludre-et-Loire. 

Observations m6teorologiqiies des mois d'aodt et septembre. Amiales 
de la societe d'agriculture, sciences, arts et belles-lettres du departeinent 
dlndre-et-Loire. Cent-dixieme aunee, tome 1. 

Alsace. — Essais sur le climat de I'Alsace et des Vosges. Clias. Grad. 
Bulletin de la societe d'liistoire naturelle de Colmar, 1870. 

Introduction ii Tetude met<5orologique de I'Alsace, i)ar G. A. Iliru. 
Bulletin de la societe d'liistoire naturelle de Colmar, 1870. 

Lyons, — Commissiou meteorologique de Lyon, 18G9. 2G*^ aunee. 

Doiiai. — Observations metdorologiques, par M. Oliret. Memoires de 
la societe imperiale d'agriculture, de sciences et d'arts, scant a ] )ouai, 
deuxieme serie, tome ix, 18(JG-'G7. 

Etudes de metx^'orologie. Memoires de la societe imperiale d'agri- 
culture, de sciences et d'arts, scant a Douai, deuxieme serie, tome viii, 
18G3-'G5. 

Kenon. — Sur Ics caracteres de I'liiver 1870, 1871. Comptes-reudus 
hebdomadaires des seances del'academie des sciences, tome Ixxii, No. 25. 

^Sallcis. — ^Sur uu plienomene meteorologique observe a Jloulgate (pres 
Dives) le 7 sept. 1871. Comptes-rendus hebdomadaires des seances de 
I'academie des sciences, tome Ixxiii, Ko. 11. 

GERMANY. 

Eesultate aus den meteorologisclien Beobaclituugeu augestellt an den 
fuufundzwanzig kouiglicli-siicbsisclien Stationen im Jalire 1SG8 und 18G0. 
Bearbeitet von Dr. C. Bruhns, Dresden. 

Meteorologische Beobacbtungen angestellt auf der Leipziger Stern- 
warte im Jabre 1870. Zebnter Jabresbericbt des Yereins von Freunden 
der Erdkunde zu Leipzig, 1870. C. Brubns. 

Durlheim. — Meteorologische Station zu Ditrkbeim. xxviii. und xxix. 
Jabresbericbt der Pollicbia. 

liostoclx-. — Meteorologische Beobacbtungen. restschrift fiir die 44. 
Yersammlung deutscher Xaturforscher und Aerzte, Rostock, 1871. 

Meissen. — Zusammenstellung der Monats- imd Jahresmittel aus den 
zu Meissen im Jahre 1871 angestellten tilglich dreimaligen meteorolo- 
gischen Beobacbtungen. 

Fosen. — Das Klima von Posen. Eesultate der meteorologischeu Beo- 
bacbtungen auf der koniglich-meteorologischeu station zu Posen in den 
Jabren 1848 bis 18G5. Dr. Albert Mageuer. Posen, 18G8. 

Ueber die tiigliche und jabrliche Periode der relativen Feuclitigkeit 
in Wien. Wittek. Aus dem Ixii. Bde. d. Sitzb. d. k. Akad. d. Wissen- 
• sch., ii. Abtb., Oct.-Heft, Jahrg. 1870. 

Oorlitz. — Meteorologische Beobacbtungen vom 1. Dec. ISGG bis 30. 
Xov. 1870, von R. Peck. Abhandlungen der naturforschenden Gesell- 
schaft zu Gorlitz, vierzehnter Band. 

Leipzig. — Meteorologische Beobacbtungen angestellt auf der Leipziger 



RG METEOROLOGICAL ARTICLES. 

Sternvrarte im Jalire 1870, von C. Brubiis. Zelinter Jahresbericlit dCvS 
Vereins von Freunden der Erdkunde. 

ITALY. 

Milan. — Osservazioui meteorologiche. Effemeridi astronoiniclie di 
Milano per raiino 1871. Publicate dal direttore del reale osservatorio 
di Brera. 

Moclena. — IMeteorografla dell' autouno 18G9 in Modena del Ing. Anni- 
biile liicco. Anuuario della societa del uaturalisti in Modeua, anno v. 

MoncaUeri. — Bulletino meteorologico dell' osservatorio del real collcgio 
Carlo Alberto, vol. iii, 18G7-C8. 

The same. 1809-70. 

Naples. — Specola reale diNapoli a llO"^''^ sul mare osservatione meteo- 
riche fatte dal astronomo assistente, T. Brioscb. Eeudicouti dell' acade- 
mia delle scienze fisiche e matematiche. 

Falcrmo. — Bidletino meteorologico del R. osservatorio di Palermo. G. 
Cacciatore. 

Padova. — IMeteorologia Italia, delle leggi del clima di Padova. Fran- 
cesco Zantedescbi. Commentari dell' ataueo di Brescia per gli auni 1865, 
1866, 1807. 

Turin. — Bulletino meteorologico ed astronomico del regio osservatorio 
delli universita di Torino, 1809. 

Osservazioni meteorologicbe di Decembre 1871 . Eeudiconti reale isti- 
tuto Lombardo di scienze e lettere, vol. iv, p. 779. 

Ancona. — Meteorologia anconitana dal 1 Dec. 1803 al 30 Nov. 1868. 
F. De Bosis. 

Sulla organizzioni del servizio meteorologico uei porti di mare del 
regno d'ltalia. 

NETnEKLANDS. 

Nederlandscli met. Jaarboek voor 1869, utgegeven door bet koniiiklijk 
nederhmdscb meteorologiscbe Instituut. [2 vols.] Utrecbt, 1870. 

NORWAY. 

Memoire sur les orages en Xorvege, par M. Mobu. Memoire-s de 
Tacademie des sciences de I'institut de France, tome xxxv. 

Observations des orages en Norvege pendant I'anuee 1869, par M. 
Mobn. IMemoires de l'acad6mie des sciences de I'iustitut de France, 
tome Ixx. 

PORTUGAL. 

Lisbon. — Annates do observatorio do Infante a Luiz, 1865, '66, '67, '68, 
'69, and '70. 

RUSSIA. 

Anuales de Tobservatoire pbysique central de Kussie. Publiees par 
H. Wild. Annees 1867 et 1868. 



METEOKOLOGICAL ARTICLES. 87 

Borpat. — Meteorologisclje Beobaclituugen angostellt in Dorpat im 
Jahre 1866-187(). 

St. Petershurg. — Jaliresbeiifbt dcs pliysikalisclieu Centralob&'ervato- 
riums I'iir 1870. Yon 11. Wild. 

Eepertorium fiir Meteoro!ogie. lleiausgegebeu von der kaiserlicbeu 
Akademie der Wisseuscbaften. liodigirt von Dr. IL Wild. Baud ii, 
Heft i. 

Moscoic. — Observations meteorologiques faites a I'institnt des arpen- 
teurs de Moscou par J. Weinberg, juillet a decembre 1870, Bulletin dc 
la societe imperiale des uaturalLstes de Moscou, 1871. 

SPAIN. 

ALadrUL — Observacioues iiieteorologicas efectuadas en el ol)ser\ atorio 
de Madrid, Dec. lS07-Nov. 1808. Madrid, 1809. 

Eesumen de las observaciones meteorologicas efectuadas en el ])eniu- 
.sula, Dec. 1806. Madrid, 1809. Dec. 1807-Nov. 1808. Madrid, 1870. 

SWEDEN. 

JJpsal. — Bulletin nii'teorologi(]ne niensuel de Fobservatoire de ruuix'er- 
sit^ d'Upsal, vol. i. 1-5; vol. ii, 1-0, 7-1-!; vol. iii, 1-0. 

SWITZEELAKD. 

Schweitzeriscbe nieteorologiscbe Beobacbtungen. Dec, 1809; Jan., 
Feb., Aug., Sept., Dec, 1870; Jan., Feb., March, June, July, 1871. 

Keuchdtcl. — Resume des observations meteorologiques faites a Neu- 
chatel dans le 18"^« siecle, de Tannee 1700 a 1800. Bulletin de la societe 
des sciences naturelles de Neucbatel, tome ix, premier cabier. Cb. Kopp. 

NOETII AMERICA. 

CANADA. 

Toronto Magnetic Obscrrntorij. — (General Meteorological Register for 
1870. 

Meteorological tables for Toi-outd. Canadian Journal of Science, Lit- 
erature and History. 

Le naturaliste canadien. 

NOVA KOOTIA. 

Halifax. — Diurnal and annual variations of temperature at Ilalifax, 
Nova Scotia, from bi-hourly observations by T. Allison, M. A., during 
the three years 1807-'09. G. T. Kingston. Canadian Journal of Sci- 
ence, Literature and History, May, 1871. 

UNITED STATES. 

Loiver California. — "La Baja California." Observaciones n:ieteorologieas 
hechas en el puerto de La Paz por Jose Fidel, Pujol socio corresponsal 



88 METEOROLOGICAL AETICLES. 

delas sociedades di f^cograpbica 3' estadistiea y liistorica natural. Jan- 
uary to December, 1870. 

District of Columbia, Washington. — Astronomical and meteorological 
observations, United States Naval Observatory. 

Georgia, climatology. — Health and i^rofit as found in the hilly pine- 
region of Georgia and South Carolina. S. E. Habersham, M. D. 

Maine, Orono. — Meteorological register for 1870. M. C. Fernald. 
\ Beport of the College of Agriculture and the Mechanic Arts, Orono. 
Maine. 

South Carolina. — Aiken, by Amory CofiQn, M. D., and W. H. Ged- 
dings, M. D. 

New Torh. — Eeport of the director of the meteorological observatory, 
First annual report of the board of commissioners of the department 
of public parks. 

Pennsylvania, Thilailelpliia. — Meteorological data. Journal of the 
Franklin Institute, vol. 02, p. 224. 

A general abstract of meteorological phenomena for 1808. Journal 
of the Franklin Institute, February, 1809. 

Comparison of meteorological phenomena of 1808 with those of 1807 
and the last 17 years. Journal of the Franklin Institute, February^ 
1809. 

Comparison of meteorological phenomena of December, 1808, with 
those of December, 1807, and of the same month for eighteen years. 
Journal of the Franklin Institute, February, 1809. 

New Hampslnrc, Mount Washington. — Meteorological observations. 
American Journal of Science and Art, vol. i, p. 149. 

WEST INDIES. 

Trinidad. — On weather. G. Webbe. Proceedings of the Scientific 
Association of Trinidad. 

SOUTH AMEEICA. 

Contributions to our knowledge of the meteorology of Cape Horn 
and the west coast of South America.* London, 1871. 

Caracas. — Cuadros meteorologicos. Yargasia. Boletin de ciencias 
fisicas y naturales de Caracas, No. 1-3, 1808. A. Aveledo. 

Estrellas cadentes de Novierabre 1809. Yargasia. Boletin de la so- 
ciedad de ciencias fisicas y naturales de Caracas, No. 7. 

Observaciones meteorologicas en Caracas, auo de 1809. Yargasia. 
Boletin de ciencias fisicas y naturales de Caracas, No. 5, 1808. No. 7. 

AUSTRALIA. 

New South Wales. — Abstract of meteorological observations made in 
New South Wales during the years 1805-'GG. 

Abstract of meteorological observations made in New South Wales 
up to the end of 1809, with remarks on the climate, by H. C. Russell. 



METEOROLOGICAL ARTICLES. 89 

Resnlts of meteorological observatious made in New South Wales 
during" 1S70, under the direction of II. C. Russell. 

Meteorological observations made at the government observatory, 
Sydney, under the direction of George R. Smalley, 1SG7- GS-'G9-'70. 

Meteorological observatious made at the government observatory, 
Sydney, for April, .May, and June, 1S71, by H. 0. Russell. 

NEW ZEALAND. 

Meteorological report for 1870, including retrirus fur 1.SG9 and ab- 
stracts fof previous years, by James Hector. 

ASIA. 

India, Calcutta. — Abstract of the results of the hourly meteorological 
observations taken at the surveyor geuerars ofQce, Calcutta. I'roceed- 
ings of the Asiatic Society of Bengal. . 

Meteorological observations, July and August, 1871. I'roceedings of 
the Asiatic Society of Bengal, No. ix, September, 1871. 

Report on the meteorology of the Punjab for the year 1870, by A. Neil. 
Lahore, 1871. 

AFRICA. 

Siic^'. — Recherches sur le climat de Pisthme de Suez, par M. Rayet. 
Memoires de I'academie des sciences de Tinstitut de France, tome xxxv. 

MAGNETISM. 

Contributions to terrestrial magnetism. No. xii. The magnetic survey 
of the British Islands reduced to the epoch 1812- '45, by General Sir Ed- 
ward Sabine. Philosophical transactions of the R.oyal Society of Lou- 
don for the year 1870, vol. IGO, part ii. 

Magnetic observations made during a voyage to the north of.Europe, 
and the coasts of the xVrctic Sea, in the summer of 1870. By Captain 
Ivan Belavenetz. Proceedings of the Royal Society', vol. xix. No. 127. 

Note sur la variation diurne lunaire et sur la variation seculaire de 
la declinaison maguetiqne. M.Brown. Comptes-rendushebdomadaires 
des seances de Tacademie des sciences, tome Ixxiii, No. 2. 

Observations des declinaisons de I'aiguille aimantee faites a TobserNa- 
toire de la marine a Toulon depuis I'aunee 18GG a 7h. 30m. du matin. 
Comptes-rendus hebdomadaires des seances de Tacademie des sciences, 
tome Ixxiii, No. 15. 

Observations magnetiques do 1870. D. Midler. Comptes-rendus 
hebdomadaires des seances de I'academie des sciences, tome Ixxiii, 
No. 0. 

Results of seven years' observations of the dip and horizontal force 
at Stonyhurst College observatory, from April, 18G3, to March, 1870. 
Proceedings of the Royal Society, vol. xix. 



^0 METEOROLOGICAL ARTICLES. 

Magnetical observations made at Stonyliurst College observatory from 
April, 1863, to March, 1870, by Kev. S. J. Perry. 

Ealley's Magnetic Chart. — (Photographic copy of the original iu the 
library of the British Museum.) 

Observations on the variation of the magnetic declination in con- 
nection with the aurora of October 14, 1870. Alfred M. Mayer. Ameri- 
can Journal of Science and Art, vol. i, p. 77. 

Note sur la variation diurne lunaire et sur la variation seculaire de la 
declinaison magnetique. Brown. Coraptes-rendus hebdomadaires des 
seances de i'academie des sciences, tome Ixiii, No. 2. 

Note sur les indications de I'aiguille aimantee a I'approche d'une 
terapete. Fortin. Coraptes-rendus hebdomadaires des seances de Facade 
niie des sciences, tome Ixxiii, No. 3. 

Eecords of the magnetic observations made at the Kew Observatory, 
No. IV. Analysis of the principal disturbances shown by the horizon- 
tal and vertical force magnetometers of the Kew Observatory, from 1859 
to 1801, by General Sir Edward Sabine, 

Osservazioni della declinazioni magnetica. A. de Gasparis. Rendi- 
conti dell' academia della scienze lisiche e matematiche, June, 1869. 

MAGNETIC AND METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVATIONS. 

Eesults of the magnetical and meteorological observations made at 
the Royal Observatory, Greenwich, England, 1869. 

Stonyhurst College observatory. Results of meteorological and mag- 
netical observations, 1870. 

Observations made at the magnetical and meteorological observatory 
at Trinity College, Dublin, vol. ii, 1814-'50. Dublin, 1869. Humphrey 
Lloyd. 

Observaciones magneticas y meteorologicas hechas per los alumnos 
del colegio de Belen. Habana, 1871 . 

Magnetische und meteorologische Beobachtungne auf der k. k. 
Sternwartc zu Prag im Jahre 1870. 

Beobachtungen an der k. k. Centralanstalt flir Meteorologie und 
Erdmagnetismus, July, December, 1870. 

Jahrbiicher der k. k. Centralanstalt fiir Meteorologie und Erdmagne- 
tismus. Neue Folge, v. Band, Jahrgang 1868. Carl Jelinek und Carl 
Fritsch. Yl. Band, Jahrgang 1869. 

METEORS. 

Le stelle cadenti, deiperiode dlNoviembre 1868 ed Agosta 1869, osser- 
vate in Piemonte ed in altre con trade d'ltalia. P. Francesco Denza. 

Norme per le osservazioni delli meteore luminose. 

Observations of luminous meteors, Royal Observatory, Greenwich, 
1871. 

Osservazioni delle meteore luminose nel 1871-72. 

Sopra gli aeroliti, caduti il gioruo 29 Feb. 1868, nel territorio di 



METEOROLOGICAL ARTICLES. 01 

Villauova e uiotta dei conti. Memoria dei profcissori Agostino, Goiran, 
Antonio, Bertolio, Artnro, Zanuetto, Luigi, Masso. 

Aerolito en la hacienda de la Conception mnnicipalidad de AUende, 
estado de Cliihualiua. Boletiu dcLi sociodad de geografia y estadistioa 
de la Republicana Mexicaua, sogunda epoca, tonio iii, Nos. 8, 0, 10. 

Composition of the meteoric stone that fell near Searsmont, Maine, 
May 21, 1871, by J. L. Smitlu American Journal of Science and Art, 
1871, p. 200. 

Der Ainsa-Tiicsou ]Meteoreisenring in Wasliington nnd die Eotatioii 
der Meteoriteu in Ibrem Zuge. Sitzungsbericbte der kaiserlicbeu Aka- 
demie der Wissenscbaften, April 1870. V. Ilaidinger. 

Der Meteorit in Kriibeuberg. G, Nenmayer xxviii. nnd xxix, Jabres- 
bericbt der Pollicbia. 

Der Meteorit von Lodran. Sitzungsbericbte dor kaiseili';'iien Akade- 
mie der Wissenscbaften, Ajuil 1870. 

Die Meteorite. Aus der Xatur, neue Fulge, 4(3, Band. 

Mode du rupture de I'astre d'oii derivent les meteorites. St. JMeunier. 
Comptes-rendus bebdomadaires des seances de Tacademie des sciences, 
tome Ixxii, No. 5. 

Nacbricbten iiber den JMeteoritenfall bei Murzuk in December 18G9. 
Sitzungsbericbte der kaiserli(;ben Akademie der Wissenscbaften, Juni 
1870. 

Situation astronomique du globe d'oii derivent les meteorites. St. 
Meunier. Comptes-rendus bebdomadaires des seances de I'acadcmie des 
sciences, tome Ixxii, No. 8. 

Structure du globe d'oii proviennent les meteorites. St. Meunier. 
Comptes-rendus bebdomadaires des seances de Tacademie des sciences, 
tome Ixxii, No. 4. 

Sur un bolide observe a Tours le 17 mars 1871. Comptes-rendus beb- 
domadaires des seances de i'academie des sciences, tome Ixxii, No. 24. 
A. Buffault. 

Etoiles filantes du mois d'aoiit. Comptes-rendus bebdomadaires des 
seances de Facademie des sciences, tome Ixxiii, No. 8. 

Le bolide du lojuillet. Comptes-rendus bebdomadaires des seances 
de I'acadcmie des sciences, tome Ixxiii, No. 3. 

Memoire sur la direction des etoiles filantes. Comptes-rendus beb- 
domadaires des seances de I'academie des sciences, tome Ixxiii, No. 2. 

Observation d'un bolide laite, a I'observatoire de Marseilles le l*""" aoiit. 
Coggia. Comptes-rendus bebdomadaires des seances de Tacademie des 
sciences, tome Ixxiii, No. 6. 

Observation relative a la denomination de bolide donnee an meteore 
recemment observe par M. Coggia. Elie De Beaumont. Comptes-reu: 
dus bebdomadaires des seances de I'academie des sci(mces, tome Ixxiii, 
No. 7. 

Bolides observes en Italie pendant le mois de juillet. Denza. Comp- 
tes-rendus bebdomadaires des seances de I'academie des sciences, tome 
Ixxiii, No. 6. 



92 METEOROLOGICAL ARTICLES. 

Snr Ics bolides du 11 aout 1871 et du 24 jiiiu 1870. P. Guyot. 
Comptes-reDdus hebdomadaires des seauces de Tacad^mie des scieuces. 
tome Ixxiii, No 8. 

On a meteor seen at Alexandria, Egypt. American Journal of Science 
and Art, vol. ii, p. 474. Beverl\ Keunon. 

Bolide observe le 4 aout 1871 -Ji Tremont, pres Tournus. Lemosy. 
Comptesreudus liebdomadaires des seances de I'academie des sciences, 
tome Ixxiii, No. 6. 

Observation du bolide du 1 7 mars, faite a Nerac. Lespiault. Comptes- 
reudus liebdomadaires des seances de I'academie des sciences, tome 
Ixxii, No. 13. 

Diverses series d'observationsd'etoilesfilautes. Le Verrier. Comptes- 
reudus hebdouiadaires des seances de Tacademie des sciences, tome 
Ixxiii, No. 11. 

Observations de I'essaim d'etoiles filantes du mois d'aout, faites pen- 
dant Ics units des 9, 10 et 11 aoi^it 1871, dans un grand nombre de 
stations correspondantes. Comptes-rendns hebdomadaires des seances 
de Tacademie des sciences, tome Ixxiii, No. 7. 

Observation de I'essaim d'^toiles filantes de novembre dans les sta- 
tions de I'association scientifique de France. Comptes-rendus hebdo- 
madaires des stances de I'academie des sciences, tome Ixiii, No. 15. 

Observ^ation du bolide du 17 mars, faite ii Castillon sur Dordogne. 
Paquenei. Comptes-rendus hebdomadaires des seances de I'academie 
des sciences, tome Ixxii, No. 13. 

Observation du bolide du 17 mars, finite a Trenois. Vanquelin. 
Comptes-rendus hebdomadaires des stances de I'academie des sciences, 
tome Ixxii, No. 13. 

Kapijort sur les effets du meteore du 2G Janvier 184G. Bulletin de la 
societe d'emulation du departemeut de I'Allier, tome l^"". 

Eemarkable meteor, by E. H. Thurston. American Journal of Science 
and Art, vol. ii, p. 63. 

Shooting-stars of August 10 and 11. American Journal of Science 
and Art, vol. ii, p. 227. 

Sur un bolide observe an Semaphore du cap Sicie le 14 juin 1871. 
Sagols. Comptes-rendus hebdomadaires des seances de I'academie des 
sciences, tome Ixxii, No. 24. 

Sur un meteore remarquable observe dans la nuit du 11) oct. 1871. 
M. Chapelas. Comptes-reiulus hebdomadaires des seances de I'acade- 
mie des sciences, tome Ixxiii, No. 15. 

Meteor seen at Wilmington, North Carolina. American Journal of 
Science and Art, vol. ii, p. 227. 

Meteors of November 13 and 14, 1870. American Journal of Science 

and Art, vol. i, p. 30. 
November meteors in 1871, by II. A; Newton. American Journal of 

Science and Art, vol. ii, p. 470. 

Estrellas cadentesdeNoviembrel8r)9. A. Aveledo. Yargasia. Bole- 
tin de la sociedad de ciencias fisicas y naturales«de Caracas, No. 7. 



METEOROLOGICAL ARTICLES. Of) 

Meteorografia doll autouDO 1SC9 iu Modena. AnuiUale Rieco. Au- 
iiuario della societa del naturalisti in Modena, anuo Y. 

Observatiou du bolide du 17 mars, faite a Castillon sur I)oid(\ai)e. 
Paquenee. Comptes-rendus hebdomadaires des seanee.s dc racadeniie 
des sciences, tome Ixxii, Xo. 13. 

OCEAN CURRENTS AND TIDES. 

Currents of air and ocean. B. H. Babbage. Annual report and 
transactions of the Adelaide Pliilosopbical Society for the year ending- 
September 30, 1871. 

Etudes sur I'origine des courants d'air principaux, par ]N[. Lartique. 
Comptes-rendus hebdomadaires des seances de Tacademie des sciences, 
tome Ixiii, Xo. 2. 

Ocean-currents, by J. Croll. American Journal of Science and Art, 
vol. ii, p. 140. 

Sketch of a new theory of oceanic tides, based upon examination of 
the causes assigned to exceptional tidal waves. J. W. Bilby. Trans- 
actions and x^roceedings of the Eoyal Society of Victoria, vol. 9. 

Surl'extension du Gulf-stream dans le nord et sur la temperature des 
mers, par Ch. Grad. Comptes-rendus hebdomadaires des seances de 
I'academie des sciences, tome Ixxiii, Xo. 2. 

OZONE. 

Espeiienze ozonometriche fatte nel hiboratorio chemico delF uiuver- 
sita di Pisa sotto la direzione del Prof. S. De Lucas. 

Note relative a la nature de I'ozone. M. Pigeon. Comptes rendus 
hebdomadaires des seances de Tacademie des sciences, tome Ixxiii. Xo. 3. 

PRESSURE OF THE ATMOSPHERE. 

Barometrical measurements iu Ecuador by W. Eeiss and A. Stubel. 
American Journal of Science and Art, 1871, p. 207. 

Sul movimento vStraordinario del barometrografo della P. specola di 
Kapoli. A. de Gasparis. Eendiconti dell' academia delle scienze fisiche e 
matematiche. August, 1807. 

Eecherches experimeutales sur I'influcnce que les changements dans 
la pression barometrique exercent sur les phenomeues de la vie. P. 
Bert. Comptes-rendus hebdomadaires des seances de I'academie des 
sciences, tome Ixxiii, No. 3 and Xo. 8. 

Note sur les relations simples entre la pression de la vapour afineuse 
et la temi)erature. Duperray. Comi)tes-rendus hebdomadaires des 
seances de I'academie des sciences, tome Ixxii, No. 23. 

RAIN. 

Cyclical rain-falls at Lisbon. Proceedings of the American Philo- 
soiihical Society, vol. xii. July-Dec, 1871. 



04 METEOROLOGICAL ARTICLES. 

Montlily rain-fall at San Francisco. Journal of the Franklin Insti- 
tute, March, 1872. P. E. Chase. 

Summary of rain and melted snow for the winter 1870-'71. Canada. 

Some observations on the rain-fall at Adelaide, Australia. Annual 
report and transactions of the Adelaide Philosophical Society for the 
year ending September 30, 1871. 

Fall of rain at Hilo, Hawaii. American Journal of Science and Art, 
vol. i, p. 232. 

Sur le regime pluvial de I'Allemagne septentrionale et de la Eussie 
d'Europe. Comi)tes-rendus hebdomadaires des seances de Facademie 
des sciences, tome Ixxii, No. 21. 

Observations pluviometriques dans le Loiret en 1867 et 1868. Me- 
moires de I'academie des sciences de I'iustitut de France, tome xxxv. 

Sur le regime jjluvial de I'Algerie, d'apres les observations de I'ad- 
ministration des ponts et chaussees. V. Raulin. M^moires de I'aca- 
demie des sciences de I'institut de France, tome xxxv. 

Sar le regime pluvial de I'Asie septentrionale et orientale. Y. Eaulin. 
Comptes-rendus hebdomadaires des seances de I'academie des sciences, 
tome Ixxiii, No. 4. 

Artificial production of rain. American Journal of Science and Art, 
vol. ii, p. 313. 

Memoire sur les pluies, par M. Becquerel. Memoires de I'academie 
des sciences de I'institut imperial de France, tome xxxv. 

Memoire sur les qiiantites d'eau tombees pres et loin des bois, par M 
Becquerel. M6moires de I'academie des sciences de I'institut imperial 
de France, tome xxxv. 

On rain-falls, by Pliny E. Chase. American Journal of Science and 
Art, vol. ii, p. 69. 

Sur les pluies de poussi^re et les i)luies de sang, par M. Tarry. 
Memoires de I'academie des sciences de I'institut de France, tome Ixx. 

SNOW. 

Observations relatives aux chutes de neige 4 Montreal, (Canada,) et a 
Stykisholm, (Islande.) Buchan. Memoires de I'academie des sciences 
de I'institut de France, tome xxxv. 

Sur les circonstances meteorologiques qui ont accompagne la chute de 
neige du 16 mars 1870. Comptes-rendus hebdomadaires des seances 
de I'academie des sciences, tome Ixxii, No. 12. 

Chute de neige extraordinaire a CoUimero, (Pyrenees orientales.) 
Naudin. Memoires de I'academie des sciences de Tinstitut de France, 
tome Ixx. 

Inlluence of snow-covering on climate. A. Wojeikof. American Jour- 
nal of Science and Art, vol. ii, p. 64. 

De I'intluence de la neige sur la temperature du sol a diverses pro- 
fondeurs, selon qu'il est gazonne ou denude. Becquerel. Comptes-rendus 
hebdomadaires des seances de I'academie des sciences, tome Ixxiii, 
No. 25. • 



METEOROLOGICAL ARTICLES. 95 

SOLAR HEAT. 

Actinometrical observations made at Dehia and Mussooiie, iu ludia^ 
October and Xovember, 18G9. Proceedings of llie Royal Society, vol. xix, 
Xo. 125. 

Temperatnre of solar radiation as measured by tbe black-bulb ther- 
mometer, by Mr. Ellery. Transactions and proceedings of tbe Royal 
Society of Victoria, vol. ix, Melbourne, 18G0. 

The daily motion of a brick tower caused by solar heat. C. G. Roek- 
wood. American Journal of Science and Art, 1871, p. 177. 

STORMS ANT) TORNADOES. 

Sur un orage qui a eelate le 29 mai, aux environs d'Alais, France, 
par M. Bourgoyne. Memoires de I'academie des sciences de Tinstitut 
de France, tome Ixx. 

Note sur des phenomenes siuguliers observes en Ecosse pendant h'S 
periodes orageuses du 18 juin et du 5 juillct 1871. Comptes-rendus 
hebdomadaires des seances de I'academie des sciences, tomelxxiii, No. 2. 

Stormenes Love. Christiania, 18GS. 

Det uorske meteorologische Instituts Storm-Atlas. Af H. Moho. 
Christiania, 1870. 

Norsk meteorologisch aarbog for 1809. Christiania, 1870. 

M6moire sur les orages en Norvege. Mohn. Memoires de I'acade- 
mie des sciences de I'institut de France, tome xxxv. 

Observations des orages en Norvege pendant I'annee 1SG9. Memoires 
de I'academie des sciences de I'institut de France, tome Ixx. 

Uebcr die jiihrliche Vertheilung der Gewittertage, nach den Beobach- 
tungen an den meteorologischen Statioueu Oesterreichs unci Ungarns. 
Sitzungsberichte der kaiserlichen Akademie der Wissenschaften, May 
1870. 

Tornadoes, by II. S. Whitfield. American Journal of Sci<^nce and Art, 
vol. ii, p. 9C. 

Note sur des phenomenes siuguliers observes en Ecosse pendant les 
periodes orageuses du 18 juin et du 5 juillet 1871. M. W. de Fonvielle. 
Comptes-rendus hebdomadaires des seances de I'academie des sciences) 
tome Ixiii, No. 2. 

Guide des ouragans. F. R. Roux. Revue maritime et coloniale, tome 
xxxi, nov. 1871. 

La bourrasque du 11 juillet 1871. Chapelas. Comptes-rendus heb- 
domadaires des seances de I'academie des sciences, tome Ixxiii, No. 3. 

TELEGRAPHIC WEATHER-RERORTS. 

Systems of weather-telegraphy, by C. Abbe. American Journal of 
Science, vol. ii, p. 81. 

Signal-service weather-reports, by IMiny E. Chase. Journal of the 
Franklin Institute, vol. 62, p. 278. 



96 METEOROLOGICAL ARTICLES. 

TEMPERATURE. 

IMenioire snr la distribution de la clialeur et de scs vaiiations depuis 
k' sol jusqu'a treutesix metres an-dessous. Memoires de Tacademie 
des sciences de I'institat imperial de France, tome xxxv. 

IMeinoire sur la distribution de la cbaleur an-dessous du sol. Memoires 
de Tacademie des sciences de liustitut imperial de France, tome xxxv. 

Memoire snr la temperature des sols couverts de bas v6g6taux ou 
denudes. Comptes-rendus bebdomadaires des stances de I'academie 
des sciences, tome Ixxiii, No. 20. 

Sur les caracteres de I'biver 1870-'71, et sur la comparaison de la tem- 
perature moyenne a i'observatoire de Paris et a I'observatoire met^oro- 
logiqne central de Mont.souris. Cb. Sainte Claire Deville. Comptes-ren- 
dns bebdomadaires des seances de I'academie des sciences, tome Ixxii, 
Ko. 13. 

Sur le froid de la nuit du 17 au IS mai. Comptes-rendus bebdoma- 
daires des seances de I'academie des sciences, tome Ixxii, No. 25. 

Quelques nouveaux documents sur le froid anormal observe dans la 
nuit du 17 au 18 mai. De Biseau. Comptes-reudus bebdomadaires des 
stances de I'academie des sciences, tome Ixxiii, No. 6. 

Sur le froid des premiers jours de juin 1871. H. Bardy. Comptes- 
rendus bebdomadaires des stances de I'academie des sciences, tome 
Ixxii, No. 25. 

Sur les precautions a prendre pour la determination de la temperature 
d'uu lieu. Comptes-rendus bebdomadaires des seances de I'academie 
des sciences, tome Ixxii, No. 12. 

M(5moire sur la temperature sons bois et bors des bois. ]M6moires de 
I'academie des sciences de I'institut imperial de France, tome xxxv. 

Sur les temperatures observees a Montsouris pendant le mois de 
fevrier 1871. Comptes-rendus bebdomadaires des seances de I'academie 
des sciences, tome Ixxii, No. 10. 

Water unfrozen at 18°. Bouissingault. American Journal of Sci- 
ence and Art, vol. ii, p. 301. 

On tbe temperature of tbe interior of tbe eartb, as indicated by obser- 
vations made duriug tbe construction of tbe great tunnel tbrougb tbe 
Alps. D. T. Austed. Proceedings of tbe Eoyal Society, vol. xix, No. 129. 

Die Temperatur-Yerbaltuisse und die mit der Hobe zunebmende Teui- 
peratur in der Scbicbt des Luftmeeres, welcbe die Erdoberfliicbe 
uumittelbar berilbrt. Ton Prof. Dr. Prestel. 

Die Wiirmeabnabme mit der Ilobe an der Erdoberfliicbe und ibre jitbr- 
licbe Periode, von Dr. J. Ilann. 

Observations to accompany and elucidate tbe diagram of mean tem- 
perature for ten years at tbe Albion mines. Nova Scotia. Henry Poole. 

Diurnal and annuvd variations of temperature at Ualifax, Nova Scotia, 
from bi bourly observations by F. Allison, M. A., during tbetbree years 
18G7-'09. G. T. Kingston, Canadian Journal of Science, Literature 
and History, May, 1871. ^ 



METEOROLOGICAL ARTICLES. 97 

Ueber den jiibrliclieu Gang tier Temperatur zu Klagenfurt, Triest iind 
Arvavaralza. C. Jelinek. Aus dem Ixii. Bde. d. Sitz. d. k. Akademie d. 
Wisseusch., ii. Abtli., Juni-Heft, Jahrg. 1870. 

On an approximately decennial variation of the temperatnre at tbe ob- 
servatory at the Cape of Good Hope between tbe years 1841 and 1870, 
viewed in connection with tbe variation of tbe solar spots. E. J. Stone. 
Proceedings of tbe Koyal Society, vol. six. 

Sur les froids de mai et juin 1871, et sur les froids tardifs. Comptes- 
rendus bebdomadaires des seances de Tacademie des sciences, tome Ixxii, 
No. 21. 

Temperature at great deptbs. Journal of tbe Franklin Institute, vol. 
Ixii, p. 371. 

Sur le froid du decembre. Edw. Delauuay. Comptesreudus beb- 
domadaires des seances de Tacademie des sciences, tome Ixxiii, No. 25. 

Sur le froid du 9 decembre 1871. Delaunay. Sur la precocit6 du 
froid en 1871. Cb. Sainte Claire Deville. Comptes-rendus bebdoma- 
daires des seances de Tacademie des sciences, tome Ixxiii, No. 24. 

Sur les froids de decembre 1871. M. Delaunay. Comptes-rendus 
bebdomadaires des seances de I'academie des sciences, tome Ixxiii, No. 
25. 

Sur le froid de decembre 1870 et sur la periode des grands bivers si- 
gnalee par M. Renon. Cb. Sainte Claire Deville. Comptes-rendus beb- 
domadaires des seances de Tacademie des sciences, tome Ixxii, No. 1. 

VOLCANOES. 

Eruption of tbe volcano of Colima, Mexico, by C. Sartorius. American 
Journal of Science and Art, vol. ii, p. 381. 

Yolcano of Kilauea. American Journal of Science and Art, vol. ii. 
pp. 7G, 451. 

WINDS. 

On tbe general circulation and distribution of tbe atmosi>bere. J. D. 
Everett. [Reprint from tbe Pbilosopbical Magazine for September, 1871. j 

Tin tersucbungeu liber die "Winde der nordUcben Ilemispbare und ibre 
klimatologiscbe Bedeutung. J. Hann. Zweiter Tbeil. Der Sommer. 
Sitzb. der k. Akad. d. Wissenscb., Ixiv. Band, ii. Abtb., Oct. -Heft., 
Jabrg. 1871. 

Die Wiirmeabnabme mit der Hobe an der Erdoberfliicbe und ibre 
jiibrlicbe Periode. J. Hann. 

Etudes sur I'origine des courantsd'air principaux. Lartique. Comptes- 
rendus bebdomadaires des seances de i'academie des sciences, tome 
Ixiii, No. 2. 

Force and direction of wind. F. E. Loomis. Amci icaii Journal of 
Science and Art, vol. ii, p. 231. 

Sur les mouvements geu^raux de I'atmospbere. Peslin. Memoires 
de I'academie des sciences de I'institut de France, tome Ixix. 
7 s71 



98 METEOROLOGICAL ARTICLES. 

Atlas des mouvcrncnts geueraux de I'atmospliere. Rddige par I'obser- 
vatoire imperial de Paris, sur les doouuieuts fouruis par les observa- 
toires et les marines de la France et de I'etranger. Pul)li6 sous les 
auspices da ministre de I'instruction publique et avec le concours de 
1 'association scientifique de France. An nee 18G5, juillet, aoiit, sep- 
tembre, octobre, novembre, decembre. 

ZODIACAL LIGHT. 

Observation de la lumiere zodiacale le 20 fdvrier 1871. Flammarion, 
Comj)tes-rendus liebdomadaires des stances de I'academie des sciences, 
tome Ixxii, No. 9. 

Sur la lumiere zodiacale observee a Angers le 19 fevrier 1871, by A. 
Clieux. Comptes-rendus liebdomadaires des seances de I'academie des 
sciences, tome Ixxii, ISTo. 24. 



REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE. 



The Executive Committee of the Board of Regents respectfully submit 
the followiug report in relation to the funds of the Institution, the 
receipts and expenditures for the year 1871, and the estimates for the 
year 1872: 

Statement of the fund at the heginning of the year 1872. 

The amount originally received as the bequest of James 
Smithson, of England, deposited in the Treasury of the 
United States, in accordance with the act of Congress 
of August 10, 181G $515, 1G9 00 

The residuary legacy of Smithson, received in 18G5, deposited 
in the Treasury of the United States, in accordance with 
the act of Congress of February 8, 18G7 2G, 210 G3 

Total bequest of Smithson 511, 379 G3 

Amount deposited in the Treasury of the United States, 
as authorized by act of Congress of February 8, 18G7, 
derived from savings of income and increase in value of 
investments 108, G20 37 

Total permanent Smithson fund in the Treasury of the 
United States, bearing interest at G per cent., payable 
semi-annually in gold $G50, 000 00 

In addition to the above, there remains of the extra fund 
derived from savings, &o., in Yirginia bonds, at par value 
$88,125.20, now valued at 35, 500 00 

The cask balance in First National Bank, 

January, 1872 81G, 315 03 

Amount of congressional appropriation for 
the fiscal year ending June 30, 1872, $10,000, 
one-half of which available January, 1872 . . 5, 000 00 

21, 315 02 

Total of Smithson funds January, 1872 870G, 815 02 



The interest due on the Virginia bonds, instead of being paid, has 
been funded by the State, and has thus increased the amount of the 
bonds from $72,7G0, as stated in the last report, to $88,125.18, as given 
in the foregoing statement. The market value of this stock, which was 



100 REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE. 

given last year at $48,000, lias follen, during- 1871, to $35,500, on account 
of the uncertain policy of tlie State. 

The balance at the beginning of the year 1872, viz, $21,315.02, is 
very nearly the same as that at the beginning of the year 1871, which 
was $21,477,81. This balance is not invested as a part of the perma- 
nent fund, because it is required in order to pay cash for bills as they 
become due, and previous to receiving the semi-annual income. 

Statement of receipts from the Smitlison fund for 1871. 

Interest on $650,000, at G per cent, in gold $39, 000 00 

Premium on gold, June and December, 12§ and 8^ 4, 192 50 

Total receipts 43, 192 50 



Statement of expenditures from the Smithson fund for 1871. 
BUILDING. 

Eeconstruction of parts destroyed by fire, and 

repairs $8, 827 12 

Furniture and fixtures 205 20 

$9,032 41 

GENERAL EXPENSES. 

Meetings of the board $127 12 

Lighting the building 267 15 

Heating the building 79 69 

Postage 448 76 

Stationery 452 55 

Incidentals 354 75 

Salaries and clerk hire 9, 572 62 

. 11,302 64 

PUBLICATIONS AND RESEARCHES. 

Smithsonian Contributions, quarto $9, 753 68 

Miscellaneous collections, octavo 608 12 

Reports, octavo 739 48 

Meteorology, computations, rain-gauges, &c. . . 2, 000 ho 

Apparatus for researches 744 03 

Explorations, natural history, and archaiology . 1, 301 07 

Lectures 285 00 

15,431 93 

MUSEmi, LIBRARY, AND EXCHANGES. 

Museum, in addition to the sum drawn from the 
appropriation by Congress, ($4,976) $8, 132 95 



REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE. 101 

Literary .ind scientific exchanges throngb agen- 
cies in London, Paris, Leipsic, Amsterdam, 
Milan, &c 1 4, 201 50 

Purchase of boolcs and periodicals 253 80 

812,588 31 

Total expenditures, (repayments having been de- 
ducted) $18, 355 29 



From the above statement, it appears that the expenditures were 
$5,102.79 in excess of the receipts; but to meet this deficiency, $5,000 
of the congressional appropriation for the museum, as was stated before, 
is still in the Treasury of the United States. Had this sum been drawn 
during the year, it would have been deducted from the $8,132.95 charged 
to the museum. 

During the past year the Institution has advanced money for the pay- 
ment of freight on specimens and articles directed to its care, and for 
fitting out the expedition toward the north pole. It has also sold pub- 
lications, old and useless material, and meteorological instruments, the 
payments for which have been deducted from the several items of the 
previous accounts of expenditures, as follows : 

From the museum, for repayments for freight $592 92 

From exchanges, for repayments on expense of literary and 
scientific exchanges 915 17 

From explorations, for repayments on account of Hall's expedi- 
tion toward the north pole, &c 522 27 

From Smithsonian contributions and miscellaneous collec- 
tions, for sales of publications 525 70 

Building and incidentals general, repayments for old mate- 
rial, postage refunded, &c 022 59 

Apparatu.s — sale of meteorological apparatus 10 00 

Total repayments and miscellaneous credits 3, 218 05 



Appropr tat ions and expenditures from Congress on account of the museum 
and care of the Government collections. 
In addition to the receipts from the Smithson fund, the following 
amounts have been received : 

From appropriation by Congress for fitting up halls for 
collections $20, 000 00 

From appropriation by Congress for annual care of collec- 
tions, being part of the $10,000 appropriated for the fiscal 
year ending June 30, 1871, ($5,021 having been drawn 
in the year 1870) 4, 97G 00 

21, 970 00 



102 EEPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE. 

The appropriatiou of 820,000 was expended, under the direction of 
the Secretary of the Interior, and accounted for to that Department, in 
ceiling, flooring, plastering, and painting the large hall in the upper 
story of the main building, repairing the roof, lire-proofing the west 
■wing, and fitting up the basement of the same for the preparation of 
specimens and storage. 

The appropriatiou of 81,076 was expended for salaries, taxidermy, 
labor, &c., in preserving the Government collections, and was accounted 
for to the Interior Department. 

The estimates for the year 1872 are as follows : 

RECEIPTS. ' 

From interest on the permanent fund 839, 000 00 

Probable premium on gold, 10 per cent 3, 900 00 

42, 900 00 

APPPtOPRIATIONS. 

For building 85, 000 00 

For general expenses 10, 000 00 

For publications and researches 20, 000 00 

For exchanges 5, 000 00 

For books and apparatus 900 00 

For museum, additional to Congress appropriation 2, 000 00 

42,900 00 



The Executive Committee have examined seven hundred and fifty- 
seven receipted vouchers for payments made during the four quarters 
of the year 1871, both from the Smithson fund and the appropriations 
from Congress. In every voucher the approval of the Secretary of the 
Institution is given, and the certificate of an authorized agent of the 
Institution is appended, setting forth that the materials and property 
and services rendered were for the Institution, and to be applied to the 
X)urposes stated. 

The quarterly accounts-current, bank-book, check-book, and ledger 
have also been examined and found correct, showing a balance in bank 
December 31, 1871, of 810,315.02. 

Kespectfully submitted. 

PETER PAEKER, 
JOHX ]\IACLEA^", 
Executive Com miitce.* 

March 13, 1872. 

* Major General W. T. Slieriuau, member of committee, absent, iu Europe. 



JOCJENAL OF PEOCEEDINGS 

OP 

THE BOARD OF BEGENTS 

OF THE 

SMITHSONIAJT INSTITUTION. 



Washington, D. C, January Qo, 1S12. 

A meeting- of tlie Board of Eegents of the Smitbsouiau Institution 
was held this day in tlie Eegents' room, at 7 o'clock p. m. Present: 
Hon. H. Hamlin, Hon. L. Trumbull, Hon. G. Davis, Hon. L. P. Poland, 
Hon. S. S. Cox, Hon. P. Parker, Hon. H. D. Cooke, and Professor Henry, 
tbe Secretary. 

Mr. Hamlin was called to the chair. 

The Secretary stated that an act of Congress liad substituted the 
governor of the District of Columbia as an ex-officio Eegeut, in place of 
the mayor of Washington, the latter office having ceased to exist. 
Governor Cooke was then introduced as a member of the Board. 

Dr. Parker, from the Executive Committee, presented a preliminary 
statement of accounts. 

On motion of Mr. Trumbull, the report was accepted. 

The Secretary made a statement relative to the Virginia stocks held 
by the Institution. It had been deemed advisable that the registered 
stock should be converted into coupon bonds, because the coupons were 
receivable for taxes, and the State had not paid interest on its stock for 
several years. The transfer had therefore been made for the Institution 
by Eiggs & Co. 

On motion of Judge Poland, the Secretary was directed to deposit the 
Virginia coupon bonds, now in Eiggs' Bank, in the Treasury of the 
United States for safe-keeping. 

The Secretary gave an account of the improvements made in the build- 
ing during the past year. 

A communication from Dr. C. H. F. Peters, of the observatory at 
Clinton, Xew York, was read, asking the Institution to defray the exj^ense 
and act as the medium of communicating discoveries of planets, comets, 
etc., by ocean telegraph. 

The Secretary stated that he had applied to the ocean telegraph com- 
I)any for the free transmission of astronomical discoveries, but had not 
received a reply. 

Several of the Eegents expressed the opinion that the Institution 



104 PROCEEDINGS OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS. 

slioiikl have tbe fraukiug privilege, to enable it to distribute scientific 
reports, &c., to libraries and other institutions of the country. 

The Secretary stated that a stable had recently been erected on the 
grounds, with the approval of General Babcock, Commissioner of Public 
Buildings. This was necessary for the use of the Institution, though 
the horse and carriage used by the Secretary had been purchased by 
himself. 

On motion of Mr. Trumbull, the action of the Secretary was approved. 

A claim, presented by T. E. Peale, esq., of Washington, for a portrait 
of Washington, painted by his father, Charles Wilson Peale, now in the 
Smithsonian museum, was referred to the Executive Committee. 

A communication was presented from Henry O'Eielly, relative to the 
discovery of the electro-magnetic telegraph, which, on motion of Mr. 
Davis, was read, and ordered to be placed in the archives of the Insti- 
tution. 

Adjourned to meet at the call of the Secretary. 



March 28, 1872. 

A meeting of the Board was called for this evening at 7 o'clock. Pres- 
ent: Hon. S. P. Chase, Chancellor of the Institution ; Hon. L. P. Poland, 
Hon. J. A. Garfield, Hon. P. Parker, and Prof. Henry, the Secretary. 

On account of a night session of the Senate, the Vice-President, Hon. 
Mr. Colfax, and Senators Trumbull and Hamlin were prevented from 
attending the meeting. 

No quorum being present, adjourned to meet at the call of the Secre- 
tary. 



April 3, 1872. 

A meeting of the Board of Eegents was held at 7 o'clock at the Insti- 
tution. Present : Vice-President Colfax, Hon. H. Hamlin, Hon. L. Trum- 
bull, Hon. L. P. Poland, Hon. P. Parker, Hon. H. D. Cooke, and Prof. 
Henry, Secretary. 

Mr. Colfax was called to the chair. 

The minutes of the previous meeting were read and approved. 

Dr. Parker, in behalf of the Executive Committee, rnesented the re- 
port of the committee, which was read, and, on motion of Mr. Hamlin, 
accepted. 

Dr. Parker stated that the Virginia coupon bonds which had been 
received from the State had no seal affixed to them. In regard to this, 
the Secretary presented the following communication from Jos. Mayo, 
jr., treasurer of Virginia : 

COMMONWEALTU OF VlRGI>'IA, TREASURER'S OFFICE, 

Eiehmoncl, March 30, 1872. 
The following coupon bonds ZSTos. 11521 to 11578, both inclusive, for 
$1,000 each ; Xo. 1380 for $500, and Xos. 4191 and 4192 for $100 each, of 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS. 105 

Virginia consolidated debt, exclianged December 0, 1871, for the Smith- 
sonian Institution, and standing in its name on the books of this office, 
"were reguhuly issued and are good and valid. The omission of the State 
seal upon them was an inadvertauce, which will be corrected whenever 
the bonds are returned for the imrpose. In fact the seal is not necessary 
to give validity to the bonds, though it is customary to place it upon 
them. 

Very respectfully, yours, 

JOS. I\IAYO, 
Treasurer of V(r(jinla. 

On motion of Mr. Ilamliu, it was 

Resolved, That the Secretary return the bonds to Eichmond for the 
purpose of having the State seal affixed to them. 

The Secretary gave an account of Major Powell's expedition, which 
was authorized by Congress at its last session and had by law been 
placed under the direction of the Smithsonian Institution. He stated 
that he had addressed a communication to Congress recommending 
an additional appropriation for continuing the survey. 

The Secretary stated that, for many years, harmonious relations had 
existed between the Institution and the Department of Agriculture for 
co-operation in advancing the science of meteorology. The blanks had 
been furnished and distributed by that Department, and the observers 
sent their returns to the Commissioner, saving a large item of expense 
in the way of postage. The monthl}^ summaries of observations of rain, 
temperature, etc., had been j)ublished in the monthly reports of the 
Department, and had done much to encourage and stimulate the ob- 
servers and to furnish valuable data for agricultural and scientific pur- 
poses. Judge Watts, the present Commissioner, had recently decided, 
however, to discontinue this publication, and this was an additional 
reason why the Institution should have the franking privilege. The 
Institution had a large number of computers at work in reducing and 
discussing all the meteorological observations it had collected during the 
last twenty years, and would soon publish the results. 

The Secretary presented his annual report for the year 1871, which 
was read, and, on motion of Mr. Trumbull, accepted. 

A communication from F. O. J. Smith, esq., of Portland, relative to 
the electro-magnetic telegraph, was presented to the Board, and ordered 
to be placed in the archives. 

The board then adjourned sine die. 



GENERAL APPENDIX 



SMITHSONIAN REPORT FOR 1871. 



The object of this appendix is to illustrate the operations of the 
Institution by reports of lectures and extracts from correspondence, as 
■well as to furnish information of a character suited especially to the 
meteorological observers and other persons interested in the promotion 
of knowledge. 



MEMOIR OF SIR JOH\ FREDERICK WILLIAM HERSCHEL. 



Br N. S. Dodge. 



About the year 17G0, as Dr. Miller, the organist, better kuowu, per- 
haps, as the liistoriau of Doucaster, Euglaud, was tliuiug at Pontefract 
with the officers of the Durham militia, one of them told him that they 
had a young German in their band who was an excellent performer on 
the violin, and if he would step into another room he might judge for 
himself. The invitation was gladly accepted, and Miller heard a solo 
of Giardini's executed in a manner that surprised him. Learning after- 
ward that the engagement of the young musician was only from month 
to month, he invited him to leave the band and come and live with him. 
" I am a single man," he said, " and we doubtless shall be happy to- 
gether ; beside, your merit will soon entitle you to a more eligible situ- 
ation." The offer was accepted as frankly as it was made ; and the sa t- 
isfaction with which the old organist always plumed himself upon this 
act of generous feeling is not surprising, since the German hautboy- 
player turned out at last to be Herschel the astronomer. 

The Jew Snetzler, a famous organ-builder a hundred years and more 
ago, was at this time setting up a new organ for the parish church of 
Halifax. Herschel, at Dr. Miller's advice, became one of the seven can- 
didates for the place of organist. They drew lots how they were to per- 
form in succession. Herschel drew the third. The second fell to Dr. 
Wainwright, of Manchester, whose rapid execution astonished the 
judges. " I was standing in the middle aisle with Herschel," wrote Dr. 
Miller, " and I said to him, ' What chance have you to follow this manf 
He replied, 'I don't know; I am sure fingers will not do.' He ascended 
the organ-loft, however, and produced from the instrument so uncom- 
mon a fullness, such a volume of slow, solemn harmony, that 1 could 
not account for the effect. After a short extempore effusion, he finished 
with the old Hundredth Psalm tune, which he played better than his 
opponent. ' Ay, aij,'> cried old Snetzler, ' tish is very cjooi ; I vill Jfif tish 
man, for lie fjives mijinphes room for to spliealc' " Having afterward asked 
Mr. Herschel by what means he produced so uncommon an effect, he 
replied, "I told you fingers would not do;" and taking two pieces of 
load from his pocket, " One of these," he said, " I placed on the lowest 
key of tlie organ and the other on the octave above ; thus, by accommo- 
dating the harmony, I produced the effect of four hands instead of two." 

In 1780, twenty years after this, when IMiller talked of bis friend Her- 
schel's great fame, and of his sister, Caroline Herschel, who, when her 
brother was asleep, amused herself in sweeping the sky with his twenty- 



110 SIR JOHN FREDERICK WILLIAM HERSCHEL. 

feet reflector aud searcbiug for comets, tlie kiud-bearted old man used to 
wish that the science of acoustics bad been advanced in tbe same degree 
as the science of optics, " For," he said, " had William constructed audi- 
tory tubes of proportionate power to his great telescope, who knows 
but we might have been enabled to hear tbe music of tbe spheres ! " 
From this date, fourscore aud twelve years ago, until the present time, 
no name among modern scientific men has attained a higher rank than 
that of Herscbel. Ninety volumes of tbe Philosophical Transactions of 
tbe Royal Society have been enriched with papers bearing the well- 
known signature. Genius, though often hereditary, is quite as often 
wayward. It not unfrequently skips a generation. It descends some- 
times to daughters. It reappears in other cases, after being dormant 
in children and grandchildren, in a fourth or fifth step of descent. But 
with tbe two Herscbels the transmission was immediate. Tbe original 
circumstances of the two great philosophers were Indeed widely differ- 
ent. Sir William, the f^ither, hy genius and application succeeded in rising 
from obscurity to the proud position of tbe first astronomer of tbe age. 
His son. Sir John Herscbel, had tbe advantage of the highest university 
training. But both were gifted with extraordinary talents, keen scien- 
tific tastes, and those great mathematical powers which so materially 
assist in abstruse inquiries. In the case of the subject of this memoir, 
the combination of high education with an extraordinary natural talent 
for communicating his thoughts in an attractive manner, has been one 
of tbe means of making him the most distinguished jibilosopber of tbe 
nineteenth century. 

John Frederick William Herscbel was born at Slough, March 7, 1702. 
His father was already famous. People came from distant lands to see 
the great telescope. There are traditions about the wonder with which 
mail-travelers used to stare, in passing, at the mechanism by which the 
monster tube was used. A thousand stories of its revelations passed 
current among tbe vulgar. Tbe astronomer let nobody use his forty-foot 
telescope, but the fame of it could not be bidden. It went through all 
tbe civilized world. And it was under tbe shadow of that mysterious 
erection that this only child of the house— born when his father, then of 
twoscore and twelve years, was absorbed alike in the fome he had 
achieved and tbe wonders be was every night discovering ; reared in 
infancy with an uncle who spent his days in adjusting instruments, and 
an aunt whose nights were devoted to discovering new comets in tbe 
heavens ; without a boy's associations and playmates, in a house kept quiet 
all the day that the star-watchers might sleep ; and wandering through 
rooms whose silence no sports were permitted to disturb and no youth- 
ful buoyancy to interrupt— it was here that he passed bis boyhood. 
Twelve years before the boy's birth tbe "Observations of tbe periodical 
star Mira Ceti," read before the Iloyal Society, bad established bis 
father's position among scientific men, aud one year later his discovery 
of Uranus brought him into the foremost rank of astronomical observei;s. 



SIR JOHN FREDERICK WILLIAM HERSCHEL. Ill 

Amid such a cbildhood, separated fi-om bojs of his own age, suppressed in 
every demoustratiou which youthful spirits naturally give to feeling, 
without the school antagonisms that teach a lad his real worth, or the 
school rivalries that lead him to rate his fellow according to the plucky 
boyhood he exhibits, at the form or on the play-ground, in the dormi- 
tory or at the sparring-match, it is strange that the boy did not grow 
up fall of eccentricities. . His detractors — and even he, the gentlest of 
men, was not without them — say that he did. But there was in him, 
from first to last, no lack of manliness, no insincerity, no jealousy, no 
indifference even to rival merit. And then the man's life-loug and con- 
spicuous veneration for his father is perhaps the best proof of a happy 
childhood and youth. No want pinched the household ; warm affection 
existed between the parents; the boy was the idol of a fond aunt and a 
fonder uncle ; and it must have been from a happy home that he went 
to Eton. 

At the usual period of life young Herschel entered St. John's Col- 
lege, Cambridge, from which he graduated B. A. in 1813, as senior 
wrangler, having for his competitors the late Dr. Peacock, Deaia of Ely, 
who was second wrangler, and the lato Eev. Fearou Fallows, formerly 
astronomer at the Cape of Good Hope, as third wrangler. The names 
of several other men of mark appear in the honor-list as contemporary 
students, such as Professor Mill, Dr. Eobinson, Master of the Temple, 
and Bishop Carr, of Bombay. Mr. Herschel had no sooner attained 
his degree than he forwarded a mathematical paper to the Eoyal Society, 
" On a remarkable application of Cotes's Theorem." This was published 
in the Philosophical Transactions. In the same year he was elected a 
Fellow of the Royal Society, and though barely past his majority be- 
came at once an active member. 

The early researches of Herschel were confined to pure mathematics. 
For papers on this subject, published in the Philosophical Transactions, 
the Copley medal was awarded him in 1821. In 1822 he turned his 
attention to "observing" astronomy, that practical branch which 
descended to him as a hereditary duty. This occupation led him to 
associate with others in forming a special society for the general ad- 
vancement of astronomical science. A few years previous to the death 
of his father, in consequence of the improvement in astronomical tele- 
scopes, amateur observers sprang up, who took great interest in the delin- 
eation of the heavens. It was considered an epoch favorable to the 
formation of a body that should be exclusively devoted to the encourage- 
ment of astronomy ; and Mr. Herschel drew up an address which forms 
the first publication of the present Eoyal Astronomical Society. 

All the while, hcfwever, the imagination of the young philoso[)her 
was dwelling on the last discovery of his father — the binary stars. 
It was a secret, won from the unknown, that opened a new view 
into the universe. The boy was scarcely in adolescence, the father 
passing into old age, when the constitution of the nebuhe was an- 



112 SIR JOHN FREDERICK WILLIAM HERSCHEL. 

nouuced. It was the great achievmeut of the one ; it was the first 
dictate to the young manhood of the other. Three years of conversa- 
tion and thought i:)assed away, when the son, then twenty-four, took 
from his father, then seventy-eight, the work of examining the double 
stars. The old man's end of life was gained. What of nobility was in 
him had descended right royally. In the space of five years the young 
astronomer had mapped 380 double and triple stars, obtained by above 
10,000 separate measurements. The record of these observations was 
acknowledged by the French Academy of Sciences in bestowing their 
astronomical medal, and followed by a similar reward in England. This 
occurred in 1824. The old astronomer had foreseen the honors which his 
son would win, but did not live to rejoice in them. Sir William had died 
two years before. With his death came great changes to the pleasant 
family at Slough. The good mother survived, indeed, but the strange, 
ancient household was broken up. The aunt, who had watched the clock 
and catalogued the stars up to the last, returned to her old home in Ger- 
many. The cheerful old uncle had desisted from mechanical adj ustmeuts 
only when apoplexy felled him at his work, and the young inheritor of 
all the honors was left to perform his task alone. 

To those who have had no experience in continuous astronomical 
observations there can be no conception of its anxious toil. Money 
cannot repay it, nor honors, nor fame. In the pursuit day must be 
turned into night, society abandoned, the round of home comforts 
broken in upon, intercourse with friends and neighbors discontinued ; 
and the astronomical observer, quitting all the amenities of life, finds 
his compensation in the brotherhood of the stars. This self-sacrifice 
young llerschel made. The objects to observe required a calm atmos- 
phere. The best time for this is between midnight and sun-rise. This 
continuous night- work requires health. llerschel felt the severity of it. 
"Should I be fortunate enough,'' he writes, when he was but thirty years 
old, " to bring this work to a conclusion, I shall then joyfully yield up 
a subject on which I have bestowed a large portion of my time, and 
expended much of my health and strength, to others who will hereafter, 
by the aid of those masterpieces of workmanship which modern art 
places at their disposal, pursue with comparative ease and convenience 
an inquiry which has presented to myself difficulties such as at one 
period had almost compelled me to abandon it in despair." 

In 1831 Mr. llerschel received the honor of knighthood from the 
hands of King William, in acknowledgment of his eminent scientific 
services. 

In 1833 he was awarded the royal medal of the Royal Society for his 
paper " On the investigation of the orbits of revolving double stars." 
The Duke of Sussex then said of him, " Sir John llerschel has devoted 
himself for many years, as much from filial piety, perhaps, as from in- 
clination, to the examination of those remote regions of the universe 
into which his illustrious father first penetrated, and which he trans- 



SIR JOHN FREDERICK WILLIAM HERSCHEL. 113 

mittecl to liis sou as a hereditary possession, with which the name of 
Herschel must be associated for all ages. He has subjected the whole 
sphere of the heavens within his observation to a repeated and systematic 
scrutiny. Ilehasdetermined the position and described the character of 
the most remarkable of the nebuhe. He has observed and registered many 
thousand distances and angles of position of double stars, and has shown, 
from comparison of his own with other observations, that many of them 
form systems whose variations of position are subject to invariable laws. 
He has succeeded, by a happ}" combination of graphical construction 
with numerical calculations, in determining the relative elements of the 
orbjits which sou^e of them describe round each other, and in forming 
tables of their motions ; and he has thus demonstrated that the laws of 
gravitation, which are exhibited, as it were, in miniature in our own 
planetary system, prevail also in the most distant regions of space — a 
memorable conclusion, justly entitled, by the generality of its character, 
to be considered as forming an epoch in the history of astronomy, and 
presenting one of the most magnificent examples of the simplicity and 
universality of those fundamental laws of nature by which their great 
Author has shown that he is the same to day and forever, here and 
everywhere.''' 

It is impossible to give any analysis of the results of the numerous 
researches which occupied the time of Sir John Herschel at the various 
periods of his life. From a rough and evidently incomplete list of his 
papers it would appear that out of seventy, twenty-eight are on astronom- 
ical subjects, thirteen on optics, ten on pure mathematics, eight on 
geology, and eleven on miscellaneous science. 

There are, however, two of his astronomical works to which we may 
fittingly refer here, since they furnish a key which unlocks much of Sir 
John's personal history. These are, first, his " Catalogue of nebuhe 
and clusters," published in the Philosophical Transactions for the year 
1833, for which the gold medals of the Eoyal Society and the Astro- 
nomical Society were awarded ; and, second, " liesults deduced from 
observations made at the Cape of Good Hoj)e." For this latter work he 
received the Copley medal for the second time from the Royal Society, 
and an honorary testimonial from the Astronomical Society. 

The interest which Sir John Herschel always exhibited in the minute 
details of nebulae and double stars must be considered as the result of his 
association with his illustrious father. M. Arago, in his admirable and 
exhaustive biographical notice of Sir William Herschel, translated from 
the French, and published recently in the report of the Smithsonian 
Institution, refers gracefully to this fact. Sir John's early familiarity 
with his father's instruments, in familiarity with which he may be said to 
have grown up, and with their necessar}" use in making observations, 
had its influence doubtless in the same direction. Hence, probably, the 
reason why so long a period of his observing time was devoted to this 

section of astronomical research. One of his first communications to the 

8 s 71 



114 SIR JOHN FREDERICK WILLIAM HERSCHEL. 

memoirs of the Astronomical Society is an account of the great nebulae 
of Andromeda and Orion, accompanied by an admirable engraving of 
the latter. From 1825 to 1833 nearly all his astronomical energies were 
given to this kind of observation. The catalogue of uebulse and clusters, 
previously mentioned, contains a list of more thau twenty-five hundred 
of both ; their right ascensions and declinations determined ; the char- 
acter of their general appearance recorded; and those which present an 
unusual constitution, or an extraordinary shape, (of which there are 
nearly one hundred,) are drawn with a precision, delicacy, and taste 
worthy of the most accomplished artist. The astronomer royal, on pre- 
senting the gold medal of the Astronomical Society to Captain Smyth, 
on behalf of Sir John Herschel, who was then residing at the Cape of 
Good Hope, remarks : "That one of the most important parts of this 
work is the division containing the engraved representations of the most 
remarkable nebulse. The peculiarities they represent cannot be described 
by words nor by numerical expressions. These drawings contain that 
which is conspicuous and distinctive to the eye, and that which will en- 
able the eyes of future observers to examine whether secular variation 
is perceptible. They are, in fact, the most distinct and most certain 
records of the state of a nebulfe at a given time." 

The second series of investigations to which it is desired here to draw 
especial attention, is that described in the unique volume entitled " Ee- 
sults of Astronomical Observations made during the years 1831-1838, 
at the Cape of Good Hope ; being the completion of a telescopic survey 
of the whole surface of the visible heavens."' After the publication of 
the catalogue of nebuhc in 1833, Sir John Ilerschel determined to 
undertake a voyage to South Africa, for the purpose of continuing his 
researches in another hemisphere under a new heaven. He had the 
same plan in view and the same instruments. It had been irksome to 
his honored father, and was alike fretful to his own spirit, that the 
clouded sky of England allowed free sweep of the great telescope along 
the path of the stars at a rate so niggardly. Hardly more than thirty 
hours in thrice that number of nights were the mysteries of the great 
vault exposed to his search. He resolved, therefore, to seek a clearer at- 
mosphere and a wider field of iuqui ry . The southern extremity of Africa, 
where was an English colony, in which seclusion could be found without 
loss of 'means of communication with the philosophic world, and an un- 
clouded sky bending above a healthy climate, seemed to offer the 
greatest advantages. He consequently fixed upon the Cape of Good 
Hope as the most fitting place for a protracted residence away from Eng- 
land, and the broadest field for thorough researches. 

Sir John Ilerschel embarked at Portsmouth, in company with his 
family, on the loth of November, 1833, and arrived safely at Table P.ay 
on the 18th of January, 1834, after a pleasant voyage, diversified by 
few nautical incidents. 

No one knew so well as the great astronomer of whom we write, even 



SIR JOHN FREDERICK WILLIAM HERSCHEL. 115 

before, while recumbent ou the elect of the vessel that was bearing 
him through the tropic zoue, he watched for hours together the shift- 
ing panorama of the star fretted vault, how the moon appeared brighter, 
fairer, and better defined through a more transparent atmosphere; 
how the planets seemed to be other orbs ; how the stars, long watched 
in a northern sky, drooped toward the horizon, and were at length 
looked for in vain; how orbs, which, to his former vision, had modestly 
moved along the southern outskirts of visible creation, now marched 
majestically overhead, each 

"Walking the heavens like a thing of life," 
while new and strange bodies ascended high and higher, until the old 
earth had passed away and a new heaven was aloft ; nor how the Via 
Lactea, in the neighborhood of the Centaur and the Cross, coupled 
with profuse collections of nebulre and asteroids, stars and constella- 
tions, makes the southern sky the most magnificent star-view from any 
part of earth. Like the sources of the Nile to the untraveled geogra- 
j)her, or the ice-cliffs of Greenland to the student of arctic voyages, he 
knew well what a ]>ersonal inspection would ])lace before him, and 
though the civilized world rang with applause at his sacrifice of home 
and its comforts, and country and its honors, for the sake of science, 
yet true philosophers knew that the compensation, [»resent and future, 
far outweighed the loss. 

After a temporary residence at Wilterfreiden, he engaged a suitable 
mansion, bearing the name of Feldhausen, about four miles from Cape 
Town — a spot full of rural beauty, within sight of lofty hills, and situa- 
ted on the last of the terraced slopes by which Table Mountain lets 
itself down to the lowlands and meadows near the sea. In this place, 
removed from all the noise of traffic and exposure to intrusion, surrounded 
on all sides by a grove of planted trees, he caused a suitable building 
to be erected for the equatorial, while the 20-foot reflector was mounted 
in the open air. 

The observatory at Feldhauseu was situated in south latitude 33° 58' 
55" 5G, and longitude 22^ 4G' 9" 11 east from Greenwich. Its altitude 
was 142 feet above the level of the sea in Table Bay. During the erec- 
tion of his instruments. Sir John resided at Welterfreiden, and so quickly 
were his i)lans completed, that ou the 22d of February, 1834, he was 
enabled to gratify his curiosity by viewing, with his 20-foot reflector. 
9 Crucis, the interesting nebula about rj Argus, and on the evening of 
the 5th of March to begin a regular series of observations. 

After erecting his observatory and determining its geographical posi- 
tion, the attention of Sir John was directed to the fitting up of the 
telescope with which his observations were to be made. He had carried 
out with him three specula, one of which was made by his father, and 
used by him in his-20-foot sweeps ; another was made by Sir John him- 
self, under his father's inspection and instructions, and the other, of the 
very same metal as the last, was ground and figured by himself alone. 



116 SIR JOHN FREDERICK WILLIAM HERSCHEL. 

They had each a clear diameter of I84 iuches of polished surface, and 
\\ ere all equally reflective wheu freshly polished, and perfectly similar 
in their perfori^iance. The operation of re-polishing, which was more 
frequently required than in England, was performed by himself with 
the requisite apparatus, Avhich he also brought from England. 

Although Sir John Herschel never exhibited — as indeed he had no 
occasion to do — the wonderful mechanical genius of his father, he never- 
theless fully understood all the former's methods of preparing and treating 
specula. When it was stated at a meeting of the British Association in 
1842, that Lord Eoss had attained such skill in the treatment of metallic 
specula that he could dismount the mirror of his large telescope, 
repolish it, and replace it the same day. Sir John four years previously 
had written to Arago these words: ''By following my father's rules 
miuutely and using his apparatus, I have succeeded in a single day, 
without the least assistance, in polishing completelj" three Newtonian 
mirrors of nineteeu-iuch aperture," 

In the use of reflecting specula of considerable weight, it is of the 
utmost importance that the metal should be supported in its case so as 
not to sufler uny change of figure from its own weight. Sir John found 
that a speculum was totally useless by allowing it to rest horizontally 
on three metallic points at its circumference. The image of every con- 
siderable star became triangular^ throwing out long flaming caustics at 
the angles. Having on one occasion supported the speculum simply 
against a flat board, inclined at an angle of about 45°, he found that its per- 
formance was tolerably good ; but on stretching a thin pack-thread verti- 
cally down the middle of the board, so as to bring the weight of the metal 
to rest upon the thread, the images of the stars were lengthened hori- 
zontally " to a preposterous extent, and all distinct vision utterly de- 
stroyed by the division of the mirror into two lobes, each retaining 
something of its i)arabolic figure, separated by a vertical band in a state 
of distortion, and of no figure at all ! " The method which Sir John 
found the best was the following : Between the mirror and the back of 
the case he interj)osed six or seven folds of thick woolen baize, of 
uniform thickness and texture, stitched together at their edges. The 
metal, when laid flat on this bed, Avas shaken so as to be concentric 
with the rim of the case, and two sui)ports, composed of several strips 
of similar baize, were introduced so as to occupy about 30"^ each, and 
to leave an arc of about 40'^ unoccupied opposite the point which was 
to be lowermost in the tube. "When the case is raised into an inclined 
position, and slightly shaken, the mirror takes its own free bearing on 
these supports, and preserves its figure. It is essential, however, to 
the successful application of this method that many thicknesses of the 
. baize should be employed, by which only the etiect of flexure in the 
wooden back of the case can be eliminated." 

This simple plan, adopted by Sir John Herschel, is mentioned to 
show how mechanical genius aided him, as it did his father before 



SIR JOHN FEEDERICK WILLIxiM IIERSCHEL. 117 

him, iu overcoming what had seemed to be iusurmountable difficulties. 
The iugeuious method by which Lord Ross afforded an equable support 
to a large speculum, and which is now generally adopted, was then 
unknown to him. 

The labors of Sir John Herschel in South Africa were chiefly confined 
to different subjects of observation. Stellar astronomy, however, 
occupied his principal attention. Two of the most celebrated ne- 
bulae — that in the sword-handle of Orion and that surrounding the 
variable star Eta Argus, as well as portions of the Milky Way, he de- 
lineated with particular care. The published drawings of these objects 
are acknowledged hy all astronomers to be the most perfect represent- 
ations of these beautiful ornaments of the southern sky. The nebula 
of Orion, magnificent as it is north of the equator, comes out iu much 
grander detail in the southern hemisphere, where its great elevation iu 
the heavens renders it comparatively free from the ill effects of an 
impure atmosphere. During the cooler months at the Cape of Good 
Hope, from May to October inclusive, and more especially in June and 
July, the finest opportunities for delicate astronomical observation oc- 
curred, and were quite equal to the observer's most sanguine ex- 
Ijectations. Sir John remarks that the state of the atmosphere 
in these months was habitually good, and imperfect vision rather the 
exception than the rule. The best nights, when the stars were most 
steady, always occurred after the heavy rains had ceased for a day or 
two, when "the tranquillity of the images and sharpness of vision was 
such that hardly any limit was set to magnifying power, but what the 
aberrations of the specula necessitated." 

Upon occasions like these Sir John found that optical phenomena of 
extraordinary splendor were produced by viewing a bright star through 
diaphragms of card-board or zinc, pierced in regular patterns of circular 
holes by machinery. These phenomena, arising from the interferences 
of the intromitted rays, and produced less perfectly in a moderate state 
of the air, surprised and delighted every one. A result of a more 
interesting kind was obtained when the aperture of the telescope had the 
form of an equilateral triangle, the center of which coincided with the 
center of the speculum. When close double stars were viewed with the 
telescope, having a diaphragm of this form, the discs of the two stars, 
which are exact circles, are reduced to albout a third of their size, and 
possess a clearness and perfection almost incredible. These discs, how- 
ever, are accompanied with six luminous radiations running from them 
at angles of G0°, forming straight, delicate, and brilliant lines, like 
illuminated threads, reacliing far beyond the sea of view, and capable 
of being followed like real appendages to the star, long after the orb 
itself had left the field. 

Another optical phenomenon, arising from a peculiar condition of the 
atmosphere, is described as " nebulous haze." The effect of it was to 
encircle every star of the uiuth magnitude and upward with a faint 



118 SIR JOHN FREDERICK WILLIAM IIERSCHEL. 

sphere of light of an extent proportioned to the brightness of the star. 
This phenomenon presented itself very suddenly in a perfectly clear 
sky, free from suspicion of mist or cloud, and disappeared as suddenly 
after the lapse of about a hundred seconds. Sir John Ilerscliel stated 
that similar nebulous affections occurred in England, but with less fre- 
quency of coming and going. He at first suspected that the phenomena 
arose from dew upon the eye-piece ; but repeated observations satisfied 
him that they were atmospheric. 

Under the favorable circumstances in which he was now j)laced, the 
opportunity of studying the grand nebula in the sword-handle of Orion 
was eagerly embraced. He had himself delineated this remarkable 
object in 1824. Four representations of it, differing essentially from his, 
had been subsequently published, and it therefore became of the deepest 
interest to discover the causes of these discrepancies, and to ascertain 
whether in form or light a change had taken place. The splendid draw- 
ing of this nebula, twelve inches square, is viewed with mute admiration. 
The mysterious assemblage of suns and systems which it sets before the 
observer is at first almost overlooked in his wonder at the j)atience and 
skill of the artist astronomer. No fewer than one hundred and fifty 
stars are accurately depicted, and the faint luminosity shades away on 
the picture, as in the heavens, into the dark sky. That this marvelous 
thing of beauty, having no relation to the stars which bespangle it and 
no union with the stars themselves, has recently undergone or is under- 
going great and rapid changes, Sir John did not believe. He writes : 
" Comparing my only drawings made at epochs (1824 and 1837) differ- 
ing by thirteen years, the disagreements, though confessedly great, are 
not more so than I am disi)0sed to attribute to inexperience in such 
delineations, (which are really difficult) at an early period ; to the far 
greater care, pains and time, bestowed upon the later drawings ; and, 
above all, to the advantage of local situation, and the verj^ great superi- 
ority in respect both of light and defining power in the telescope at the 
latter, over what it possessed at the former epoch, the reasons of which 
I have already mentioned. These circumstances render it impossible to 
bring the figures into comparison, except in points which cannot be in- 
fluenced by such causes. Nou- there is only one such imrticular on ichich 
I am at all inclined to insist as evidence of change, viz : in respect of the 
situation and form of the 'nebula oblongata,' which my figure of 1824 
represents as a tolerably regular oval. Comparing this with its jjresent 
appearance, it seems hardly possible to avoid the conclusion of some sensible 
alteration having taken place. No observer now, I think, looking ever so 
cursorily at this point of detail, would represent the broken, curved, and 
unsymmetrical nebula ia question as it is represented in the earlier of 
the two figures, and to suppose it seen, as in 1837, and yet drawn in 1824, 
would argue more negligence than I can believe myself fairly chargeable 
with." 

The magnificent Catalogue of Nebuhie aud Clusters of Stars in the 



SIR JOHN FREDERICK WILLIAM IIERSCHEL, 119 

Soutlieni Hemisphere, conipielieiKling- 1.015, Avas reduced, arranged, aud 
executed by Sir John's own hand.s, and appears Mke tlie work of a life- 
time. 

In treating- of the MageUanic clouds, two line eye-sketches are given, 
^' drawn without telescopic aid, when sealed at a table in the open air, 
in the absence of the moon, and with no more light than was absolutely 
necessary for executing a drawing at all." He was compelled to this 
method in consequence of his attempts to represent other than very 
small portions of the KuhecuJa Major m the telescoi)e, having been com- 
pletely baffled by the perplexity of its details. 

On the 25th of October, 1837, Sir John was fortunate enough to ob- 
tain a view of the anxiously expected comet of Dr. Ualley. In the fifth 
chapter of the " Astronomical Observations'' he has given the results of 
his notice of this singular member of our solar system. Thirteen draw- 
ings illustrate the comet. We have it as it appeared night after uigbt. 
On the 1st of Xovember he describes its nucleus as small, bright, and 
highly condensed, shielded on the side next the sun by a narrow cres- 
cent of vivid, nebulous light, tlie front presenting an outline nearly cir- 
cular, and having an amplitude of 0(P from horn to horn. Four days 
afterward it had the common appearance of a comet, with its nucleus and 
slightly diverging tail ; but on its return from th(^ sun, on the 2Gth of 
January, it assumed a new and sur])rising ai)pearance. Its head was 
sharply terminated " likeaground-glass lamp-shade, and within thishead 
was seen a vividly luminous nucleus, as if a miniature comet, i^erfect in 
itself, possessing head and tail, and considerably exceeding the surround- 
ing head in intensity of light ;" in fact, a comet within a comet. As the 
nights followed each other, and the stranger advanced across the heav- 
ens, its increase in dimensions was so rapid "that it might be said it 
Avas almost seen to grow." On the 20th the nucleus appeared as a star 
of the tenth magnitude, furred and nel)ulous, and more than double in 
size within twenty-four hours. On the 2Sth, npon looking through the 
20-foot reflector, Sir John exclaimed, "Most astonisliing! The coma is all 
but gone, and there are long irregular tails everywhere.''' Tlie nucleus 
was then a sharp point, like one of Jujnter's satellites in a thick fog of 
hazy light — no well defined disk could be raised njmn it — and its bod^' 
was clearh- discernable from its coum. " I can hardly doubt," he writes, 
" that this comet was fairly evaporated in perihelio by the sun's heat, 
resolved iuto transparent vapor, and is now in pro(!ess of rapid conden- 
sation aud reprecii)itation on the nucleus." 

Sir John concludes his "astronomical observations" by notices of 
the solar spots, and conjectures of their causes. Thirteen figures, delin- 
eated from magnified images formed on a screen by means of a 7-foot 
achromatic refractor, are given in a single plate. One of these spots 
occupied an area equal to 3,780,000,000 square miles. Of one huge spot 
he makes no measurement. Of another, not one tenth in size, he says, 
"Its black center would have allowed the globe of our earth to drop 



120 SIR JOHN FREDERICK WILLIAM EERSCHEL. 

through it, leaving a thousand miles clear of contact on all sides of 
that tremendous gulf.'' Of his tbeories of the causes of these vast 
spots on the surface of the sun no mention need here be made. Galileo, 
Kepler, Huygens, Kant, Lambert, and others, each gave their views upon 
these recondite phenomena. vSir John Herschel gave his as his father 
had done before him. Others are giving, and others still, perhaps as 
accurate observers and logical reasoners as eitherof the two, will give 
theirs. The world can afford to wait. Astronomy advances. It may 
be, in the distant future, that the mysterious center around which oui* 
sun and his worlds revolve may be detected and aftbrd a solution for 
other mysteries as well as these. The greatest astronomer is equipped 
for no more than a Sabbath-day's journey. Mountain-tops rise to his 
view as he moves along, and jieaks of precipices disappear beyond the 
horizon which he leaves behind, but the Canaan he seeks to explore is 
still a terra incognita. 

The work from which we have taken the foregoing, entitled " Results 
of Astronomical Observations made during the years 1834,-'35-'36-'37, 
and -'38, at the Caj)e of Good Hope, being the completion of a tele- 
scopic survey of the whole surface of the visible heavens, commenced in 
1825," which occupies seven chapters, extending over four hundred and 
fifty pages, and illustrated by seventeen beautifully executed i)lates, 
would doubtless have appeared in a series of unconnected memoirs 
among the transactions of the Royal or Astronomical Societies, had it 
not been for the munificence of the late Duke of Northumberland, who 
gave a large sum for its publication as a single and separate work. The 
following are the subjects which are treated in the volume : 

Chapter I. On the nebulte and clusters of stars in the southern 
hemisphere. 

Chapter 11. On the double stars in the southern hemisphere. 

Chapter III. On astronomy, or the numerical expression of the 
apparent magnitude of stars. 

Chapter IV. Of the distribution of stars, and of the constitution of 
the galaxy or milky way in the southern hemisphere. 

Chapter V. Observations on Ilalley's comet, with remarks on its 
physical condition and that of comets in general. • 

Chapter VI. Observations on the satellites of saturn. 

Chapter VII. Observations on the solar spots. 

Here let us turn back for a moment to fix our attention upon the author 
of these marvelous works. The father. Sir William Herschel, had been 
not only a great astronomer, but a fortunate man. He was fortunate in 
having George the Third for a patron. Again he was fortunate in having 
Aragofor a biographer, who, while complete master of his subject, was 
superior to envy and a lover of true greatness. But thrice fortunate 
Avashe in transmitting his name and fcirae to one, who, with the amplest 
intellectual resources of an accomplished scholar and philosopher, 
cherished the characteristic boldness of his predecessor's spirit, and 



SIR JOHN FREDERICK AVILLIAM HERSCHEL. 121 

upliekl that liberty of conjecture wliicli is the uiaiiispriiiic of sagacity. It 
is rare tliat tbe parent's purple of intellect falls upon the cbild. By no 
culture bowever skillful, and no anxieties however earnest, can we trans- 
mit to our successors tbe qualities or tbe capacities of tbe mind. In lofty 
destinies father and son are rarely associated 5 and in the few* cases where 
a joint commission has issued to them, it has generally been to work in 
different spbt^res, or at different levels. In the universe of mind a doulile 
star is more rare than its prototype in the firmament, and when it does 
appear we watch its phases and mutations with corresponding- interest. 
Tbe case of the two Ilerscbels is a remarkable one, and appears an excep- 
tion to the general law. Tbe father, bowever, was not called to tbe sur- 
vey of tbe heavens, till be bad passed the middle period of life, and it 
was but a just arrangement that the son, in bis youth and manhood, 
should continue tbe labors of bis sire. As has been eloquently said, 
"The records of astronomy do not emblazon a more glorious day than 
that in which the semi-diurnal arc of the father was succeeded by the 
semi-diurnal arc of the sou. No sooner had tbe eveniugiuminary disap- 
peared, amid the gorgeous magnificence of the west, than tbe morning- 
star arose bright and cloudless in its appointed course.'' When it is 
considered that these two men, father and son, have carefully examined 
tbe whole starry firmament with 20-foot telescopes — instruments of 
which, in their present state of perfection, tbe elder Herscbel may be 
said to have been the inventor — and that they have made known to us 
thousandsof the most interesting phenomena, it is hardly an exaggera- 
tion to say that tbe science of moderate siderial astronomy rests chiefly 
on their labors. 

It is worthy of remark, in connection with Sir John Herscbel's labors 
at tbe Cape of Good Ilope, that bis residence was productive of benefits 
to meteorology as well as to astronomy. While occupied there, be sug- 
gested a plan of having meteorological observations made simultaneous- 
ly at different places — a plan subsequently developed at greater length 
in bis Instructions for iiialx'mf) and registering meteorological ohservations 
at various stations in Southern Africa, published under oflicial authority 
in 1844. The result has been the almost universal adoption of a simi- 
lar plan in Europe and the United States. 

The record of the site of tbe 20-foot reflector at Feldhausen, South 
xVfrica, has been i)reserved. No sooner had Sir John embarked for Eng- 
land, than bis numerous friends at the Cape raised by subscription a 
suflicient sum to erect a granite obelisk on the spot. There, in tbe quiet 
dell, surrounded by trees, at the foot of Table Mountain, stands an 
enduring memorial, not only of " the pleasing and grateful recollections 
of years spent in agreeable society, cheerful occupations, and unalloyed 
happiness," as he gracefully expressed it, but of the discovery of thou- 
sands of nebula and double stars in tbe remote regions of the sidereal 
firmament. 

Sir John Herscbel returned to England in May, 1838. London re- 



122 SIR JOHN FREDERICK WILLIAM HERSCHEL. 

ceived him with enthusiasm. The whole scieiitilic world joined in 
the acclamation. He was entertained at a great public dinner. At 
the meeting of the British Association, at Newcastle, he was honored as 
the princi])al guest. The Crown made him a baronet. Oxford conferred 
upon him the highest university honor; and Scotland, not to be behind, 
elected him lord rector of Marischal College at Aberdeen. Without 
doubt, the Duke of Sussex having vacated the office, he might have 
been elected i)resident of the lioyal Society, and the British Govern- 
ment proposed to reimburse all his four years' pecuniary outlays; but 
he declined them both. His motives for his long exi)atriation had not 
been money, nor pleasure, nor health, nor fame, but increase and diffu- 
sion of knowledge among men. That object he had gained the means 
of reaching, and his largest ambition was satisfied. 

Sir John was theauthor of the articles on"Isoperimetrical Problems," 
and of ''Meteorology," and ''Physical Geography," in tho Encyclopedia 
Brilannica, (the last two of which have been republished separately,) and 
also of several articles on scientific subjects in the Edinburgsnd Quarterly 
Reviews, which were collected and published in a se]>arate form in 1857, 
together with some of his lectures. He contributed besides to "Good 
AVords" some popular papers on the wonders of the universe; and, two 
or three years before he died, he gave to the world, in the pages of 
"Cornhill Magazine," a poetical version of part of the Inferno of Dante. 
He was also one of the many sexegeuarian translators of Homer's Iliad. 

Sir John Herschel was either an honorary or corresponding member 
of the academies of Vienna, St. Petersburg, Gottingen, Turin, Bologna, 
Bruxelles, Nuremberg, Copenhagen, Stockholm, Prague, Warsaw, and 
Naples, as well as of almost all other scientific associations existing in 
Europe and America, Asia, and the southern hemisphere. To liis other 
honors was added that of "Chevalier of Merit," founded by Frederick 
the Great, and given at the recommendation of the Academy of Sciences 
at Berlin. 

We have hitherto confined our remarks to the principal original 
researches of Sir John Herschel, which are doubtless the most striking 
to the man of science ; but stdl there can be no question that his popular 
reputation has arisen chiefiy from his two well-known works, "A pre- 
liminary discourse on the study of natural philosophy" and "Outlines 
of astronomy," both of which contain internal evidence of his great 
attainments in almost every department of human knowledge, and of his 
high powers as a philosophical writer. AVe give a short extract from 
each of these works as examples of his style. Upon their contents it is 
not possible to enter here. 

In the "Preliminary discourse,'' writing upon a subject with which 
he was more intimately acquainted than any man had ever been in the 
X>ast, or was in the present, he says: 

"Among the most remarkable of the celestial objects are the revolving 
double stars, or stars which, to the naked eye, eg: to inferior telescopes, ap- 



SIR JOHN FREDERICK WILLIAM HERSCHEL. 123 

pear siugle, but if examiued ATith high iiiaguifying- powers are found to 
consist of two individuals placed almost close together, and v/bicb, when 
carefully watched, are (many of them) found to revolve in regular 
elliptic orbits about each other, and, so far as we have yet been able to 
ascertain, to obey the same laws which r<.»gulate the planetary move- 
ments. There is nothing calculated to give a grander idea of the scale 
on which the sidereal heavens are constructed than these beautiful sys- 
tems. When we see such magnificeut bodies united in pairs, undoubt- 
edly by the same bond of mutual gravitation which holds together our 
own system, and sweeping over their enormous orbits in periods com- 
prehending many centuries, we admit at once that they must be accom- 
plishing ends in creation which will remain forever unknown to man ; 
and that we have here attained a point in science where the human 
intellect is compelled to acknowledge its weakness, and to feel tlmt no 
onception the wildest imagination can form will bear the least com- 
parison with the intrinsic greatness of the subject." 

Eloquently and nobly said; and yet not more eloquent and nol)[e 
are the thoughts themselves, or the language that clothes the thoughts, 
in the passages we have quoted, than are others to be found on almost 
every page of the volume. 

In the other volume alluded to, "The outlines of astronomy," a work 
clustered witli brilliant thoughts thick as the stars which stud the mid- 
night heavens, he writes : 

<■' There is no science which, more than astronomy, draw/, more largely 
on that intellectual liberality which is ready to adopt whatever is 
demonstrated, or concede whatever is rendered highly probable, how- 
ever new and uncommon the points of view may be in which objects the 
most familiar may thereby become placed. Almost all its conclusions 
stand in open and striking contradiction with those of superficial and vul- 
gar observations, and with what appears to every one, until he has under- 
stood and weighed the proofs to the contrary, the most positive evidence 
of his senses. Thus the earth on which he stands, and which has served 
for ages as the unshaken foundation of the firmest structures, either of art 
or of nature, is divested by the astronomer of its attribute of fixity, and 
conceived by him as turning swiftly on its center, and at the same time 
moving onwards through space with great rapidity. The sun and the 
moon, which appear to untaught eyes round bodies of no very consid- 
erable size, become enlarged in his imagination into vast globes ; the 
one approaching in magnitude to earth itself, the other immensely sur- 
passing it. The planets, which appear only as stars somewhat brighter 
than the rest, are to him spacious, elaborate, and habitable worlds, sev- 
eral of them much greater, and far more curiously furnished, than the 
earth he inhabits, as there are also others less so j and the stars themselves, 
properly so-called, which, to ordinary apprehension, present only lucid 
sparks or brilliant atoms, are to him suns of various and transcendent 
glory, effulgent centers of life and light to myriads of unseen worlds. 



124 SIR JOHN FREDERICK WILLIAM HERSCHEL. 

So that wbeu, after dilating his tbougbts to comprehend the grandeur 
of those ideas his calculations have called up, and exhausting his imag- 
ination and the powers of his language to devise similes and metaphors 
illustrative of the immensity of the scale on which his universe is con- 
structed, he shrinks back to his native sphere, he hnds it in comparison 
a mere point ; so lost, even in the minute system to which it belongs, 
as to be invisible and unsuspected from some of its principal and re- 
moter members." 

In the year 1851 Sir John Herschel accepted the appointment of 
master of the mint. This oftice, once held by Sir Isaac ^STewton, had 
degenerated into a place for politicians. Irrespective of qualification, 
the existing ministry had been accustomed for more than a hundred 
years to give it to the member of the House of Commons who had 
served them best. From the date of Herschel's acceptance of the office 
its political character ceased. He brought to the duties of the position 
the same thorough search, conscientious dealing, and indefatigable in- 
dustry that characterized his life. He abolished old charters, did away 
with antiquated indentures, and refused to renew contracts for meltings 
and coinages. His work was so thorough that it is still styled by the 
employes at the mint the " revolution of '51." Like all innovations, it 
caused alarm. A faction grew up in opposition. Members of Parlia- 
ment and of the ministry took sides against his plans 5 but that firmness 
for the right which never yielded, and that gentleness toward opponents 
which never lost its equipoise, ultimately achieved success. The "trial 
plates" — he called them "fiducial pieces" — which had been used for 
centuries, were abandoned; standard tables for the qualities of the 
precious metals were prepared ; the conventional purity of British coin — 
gold as l)lC.()and silver as 925 — was settled; and the mathematical coin- 
cidence of the result of the pj^x with the legal standard, established 
the correct result of the assays. 

The subject of our memoir, however, was not made for office-work. 
Though present at his labors throughout every daj', and with papers 
spread before him, revising and calculating his work far into the hours 
of every night, the toil was not congenial. Bodily infirmity followed. 
He was unable to work. His friends became alarmed. For himself he 
had not sought the place. Nature still needed his interpretations, and 
he desired to be at liberty to pass his last days in her domain. He 
therefore resigned his office as master of the mint in 1855, and betook 
himself to tlie well-earned repose of a veteran of science. 

His mind, upon the recovery of his health, resumed its wonted activity, 
and though passing his life in comparative retirement at Collingwood, 
he prepared and published his catalogue of nebulae and star-clusters. 
This splendid work was presented to the Eoyal Society on X-ovember 
10, 1803, and contains all the nebuhi} and clusters which had been any- 
where described, and identified in position sufficiently to warrant their 
inclusion. The number of objects comprised in^t is 5,078, including all 



SIR JOHN FREDERICK WILLIAM HERSCHEL. 125 

observed by Sir William Hersclicl, Sir Joliii Herscbel, tbe Earl of Eosse, 
aii<l otbers. Tbis truly noble undertaking will ever remain a monument 
of tbe energy and perseverance of Sir Jobn Herscbel, wbo at an age 
past tbree score and ten years found time and inclination to arrange and 
' republisb tbe great astronomical work of tbe century. 

From tbe rank wbicb Sir Jobn Herscbel beld among scientific men, 
bis services were in almost constant demand on committees, boards, and 
royal commissions, wbose object was tbe attainment of information for 
tbe advancement of science. For manj- years be was one of tbe " vis- 
itors '' to inspect aimually tbe Itoyal Observatory. To bim was made 
tbe annual report of tbe Astronomer-Royal on tbe efliciency of tbat 
establisbment , and be was an important member of tbe royal com- 
mission appointed to prepare new standards of lengtb and weigbt in lieu 
of tbose destroyed by fire iu 1835. As member of tbe council, and one 
of tbe secretaries of tbe Royal Society, be was one of its loading mem- 
bers for years. In ISoO, on tbe resignation of tbe presidency by tbe 
late Mr. Davis Gilbert, a strong effort was made to elect Sir Jobn 
Herscbel to tbe vacant cbair, in opposition to tbe Duke of Sussex, on 
tbe ground tbat bis a[)pointment would be peculiarly acceptal)le to men 
of science in Europe. But a commoner, bowever great, bas in England 
little cbance of success wben a royal duke is bis rival. Tbere were 
special reasons wbicb influenced a large number of tbe fellows to sup- 
port a member of tbe royal family, and tbe duke was elected. In tbe 
Royal Astronomical Society Sir Jobn filled tbe oflice of president for 
six years, and in ISlu be presided over tbe meeting of tbe Britisb Asso- 
ciation. 

It was tbe peculiar privilege — let us say in tbe conclusion of tbis part 
of our memoir — of Sir Jobn Herscbel, or peculiar gift, if tbe pbrase be 
preferred, to combine witb bis special studies a breadtb of view and 
power of expression tbat made bim tbe Homer of science. Take, for 
example, wbat be bas said of the vast practical importance of scientific 
knowledge, "As sbowing ns bow to avoid impossibilities, in securing us 
from important mistakes wben attempting wbat is in itself possible by 
means eitber inadequate or actually opposed to tbe end in view ; in 
enabling us to accomplisb our ends in tbe easiest, shortest, most eco- 
nomical and most effectual manner ; and in inducing us to attempt and 
enabling ns to accomplisb objects wbicb, but for sucb knowledge, we 
wonld never bave tbougbt of undertaking,"' 

Or again, "Tbe character of the true philosopher is to hope all things 
not impossible, and to believe all things not unreasonable. When once 
embarked on any physical research, it is impossible for any one to pre- 
dict where it will ultimately lead bim. Tbe true answer of science is that 
wbicb agaiu is at once tbe parallel and tbe illustration of the language 
of the apostle, "The mysteries of knowledge, wbicb in other ages were 
not made known unto the sons of men, are now revealed, and will be 
still more revealed to tbose whom Go<l bas chosen." 



126 SIR JOHN FREDERICK WILLIAM HERSCHEL. 

Or still again, "The students of science are as messengers from Heaven 
to earth to make sucli stupendous announcements, that they may claim 
to be listened to when they repeat in every variety of urgent instance, 
that these are not the last announcements they have to communicate ; 
that there are yet behind, to search out and to declare, not only secrets 
of nature which shall increase the wealth and power of men, but truths 
which shall ennoble the age and country in which they are divulged, 
and, by dilating the intellect, react upon the moral character of man- 
kind." 

We have called Sir John Herschel the Homer of science because he 
was its highest poet. It is the poet's function to move the soul — rous- 
ing the emotions, animating the affections, and inspiring the imagina- 
tion; and all this Herschel did on almost every i^ageof his writings. It 
is true that he avoids all fanciful representations of the facts of nature 
just as he eschews the meageruess of literal narration, but he has drawn 
beautiful pictures of nature's doings — so beautiful that they have dis- 
posed two generations to find their recreation and joy in science. 

There is, besides, poetry of no mean order in such a life as that of Sir 
John Herschel — a life wholly given to lofty, unselfish aims — a life of 
labor, working, as he expresses it, "like a working-bee" to the very end, 
reserving his almost only indignation for that spirit of idleness and 
luxury w^hich spends life but does not use it. 

There is a passage in one of Sir John's popular addresses that fur- 
nishes so admirable an insight to his own character, that it is worth trans- 
cribing. Speaking of the advantages of a taste for reading, he says: 
••'Give a nian this, and you place him in contact with the best societj^ 
in every period of history — with the wisest, wittiest, tenderest, bravest, 
and purest of characters who have adorned humanity ; you mr^ke him a 
denizen with all nations, a contemporary of all ages. It is hardly possible 
but the character sliould take a higher and better tone from the con- 
stant habit of associating with thinkers above the average of humanity. 
It is morally impossible but that the manners should take a tinge of 
good breeding from having before one's eyes the ways in which the best 
bred and the best informed men have talked and acted." 

No word he ever spoke, no sentence he ever wrote, so exactly depicts 
liimself. lie was in tbe utmost degree a well-bred nmn, not from gentle 
birth and careful training, not from scholarly pursuits and polite society, 
not from association with persons of rank and intimacy with men of 
taste and thought, not even from his loving nature and noble aspira- 
tions — not from all these together, so much as from the lofty ideal be 
cherished from boyhood to old age of perfect manhood. The upright 
form grew^ bent with passing years, the firm footstep staggered, the 
hand that poised instruments so accurately that well-nigh impossible 
angles of space could be measured to a hair's breadth became tremu- 
lous, the lines of thought on his face deepened into wrinkles, the 
straggling, grizzled hair turned to snow-like whiteness, and the absent 



SIR JOHN FREDERICK WILLIAM HERSCHEL. 127 

expression of the eyes grew more tbongbtful, but tbe air and manner, 
and bearing and address of tbe well-bred man never left bim. He 
received criticisms upon bis own speculations witb tbe same equanimity 
tbat be iwinted out tbe errors of bis opponents. His action in discus- 
sion was never violent, nor bis voice loud. He readily acknowledged a 
fault, and still more readily apologized for a wrong. To tbe capacity of 
tbe young, wbetber in May-day sports or Cbristraas gambols, even wben 
past bis fourtbscore year, be was as yielding as be was stern against 
any inroad upon morals or violation of trutb. Ho never lost bis equi- 
poise, was never betrayed into anger, sbrank from injustice to otliers as 
if the pain to be endured were bis own, looked beneatb tbe rougb exte- 
rior of many who ap[)roacbed bim for bonest motives, jind, more tban 
most of tbe best and wisest of our race, might have said truly: 
" Write lue as one who loves bis fellow-men." 

r 

Sir John Herschel's life-long conte?uplatiou of the infinite in number 
and magnitude, exalting and hallowing his mind, was exhibited in its 
effects upon his character, Tbe truths be bad learned from tbe stars 
were converted into principles of action. Lofty thoughts promoted noble 
deeds. " Surely,'' he himself bad said in a yet higher mood of tbe same 
vein of thought as tbat of the last passage quoted, " Surely, if the worst 
of men were transported to Paradise for only half an hour amongst the 
company of the great and good, be would come back converted." 

There is one feature in Sir John Herschel's character of which some 
delineation cannot be omitted in any approximately correct picture of bis 
long life. • It is his filial piety. In a soul full of the gentlest feelings, 
his love for his father while the veteran lingered on tbe stage of life, 
and bis reverence for the great and good man's memory after bis de- 
yiarture, constituted tbe strongest sentiment. Perhaps there is no other 
instance in all history where filial affection became for so long a time 
tbe ruling motive of a life. Tbe son was born for a successor in tbe line 
of chemistry to Sir Humphrey Davy and a rival to Michael Faraday ; for 
bis father's sake be became an astronomer. His tastes led bim into dis- 
coveries of the properties of hyposulpbate salts and tbe actinic relations 
of light ; his reverence for bis illustrious sire determined bim to complete, 
to the abandonment of every favorite i)ursuit, what the latter bad so 
nobly begun. Tbe pursuit of astronomy was neither the voluntary choice 
nor tbe principal bias of bis intellectual life. His inborn aptitude lay in 
another direction. Uncontrollable circumstances determined his career, 
and these were framed out of impressions of the happy home of his 
childhood. He became a great astronomer, not through the promptings 
of natural taste but by the dictates of filial piety. And no man was 
ever more emphatically, in thought and work, in hostility to error and 
search after trutb, the sou of bis Either. Over tbe two tbe eulogy of 
David over Saul and Jonathan might be fitly pronounced. 

'' Tbey were lovely and pleasant in their lives, 
And in their death they were not divided : 
They were swifter than eagles; they were stronger than lions." 



128 SIR JOHN FREDERICK WILLIAM HERSCHEL. 

This deep reverence for bis father's memory, and this high apprecia- 
tion of the vahie of liis discoveries — neither undeserved nor overrated — 
possessed Sir John Herschel to the last. His " idolatry " of the great 
telescope by which the sidereal heavens had been first unveiled to 
human sight has been called " weak in sentiment and dubious in taste." 
Arago did not so regard the means by which its remains were pre- 
served, nor do other philosophers who hold the heart to be ever 
superior to the intellect. On the 1st of January, 1840, Sir John Her- 
schel and his family, the old servants among the number, assembled at 
Slough. The metal tube had been placed horizontally in the meridian. 
At noon they walked in procession around the instrument, entered the 
capacious cylinder, seated themselves on benches previously ])repared, 
sung a requiem, and then, ranging themselves around that — call it 
a piece of metal if you will — which had been the means of opening the 
star-world to human sight, witnessed its hermetical sealing. " I know 
not," says Arago, " whether those persons who can only appreciate 
things from the i^eculiar point of view from which they have been 
accustomed to look, may think there was something strange in several 
of the details of this ceremony ; I affirm, however, that the whole world 
will applaud the pious feeling which actuated Sir John Herschel, and 
that all the friends of science will thank him for having consecrated the 
humble garden where his father achieved such immortal labors by a 
monument more expressive in its simplicity than pyramids or statues." 

The true place of Sir Johu Herschel among the great lights of his age 
cannot be accurately fixed until this generation shall have passed away. 
The feelings, prejudices, and partialities of contemporaneous life warp 
correct judgment. Proximity is unfavorable to true appreciation. No 
one knew this better than Biot, when he replied, in answer to the ques- 
tion, " Whom of all tlie philosophers of Euroj^e do you regard as the 
most worthy successor of Laplace ?" " If 1 did not love him so much, I 
should unhesitatingly say Sir John Herschel." Indeed, through his 
long confinement and ])rotracted old age, the seekers after scientific 
truth not only in the English universities, but over all Europe, in their 
difficulties, anticipations, and successes, betook themselves to the aged 
philosopher of Collingwood. 

Of the work done by the Herschels, father and son, during a peiiod 
of almost one hundred years, it is fitting that something be said in the 
conclusion of this memoir. That work is not in general correctly un- 
<lerstood. The labors of the elder Herschel are indeed associated in the 
])ublic mind with those of his son, but the real end and aim of those 
hibors, the qualities which characterized the labors of each, and the 
steps by which the two men moved on, each like a star in its orbit, 

" Making no hastt- and taking no rest," 

towards the grand consummation, it is only necessary to peruse the 
obituary notices which ai)peared upon his death to see are wholly mis- 
understood, even by men of intelligence. 



SIR JOHN FREDERICK WILLIAM HERSCHEL. 129 

The real work of the Herscliels, then, that to which all their labors 
were directed, was the survey of those regions of space which lie beyond the 
range of the unaided vision. Other work they did which well deserves 
attention. Sir William Herschel, in particular, left papers describing- 
observations of the planets, careful studies of the sun's surface, and 
researches into a variety of otiier subjects of interest. But all the 
work thus recorded was regarded by him rather as affording practice 
whereby he might acquire a mastery over his instruments than as a work 
to which he cared to devote his powers. Even the discovery of a planet 
traveling outside the path of Saturn — although, in popular estimation, 
this discovery is regarded as the most note-worthy achievement of Her- 
schel's life — was in reality but an almost accid-^^ntal result of his real 
work among the star-depths. It was, in truth, such an accident as he 
may be said to have rendered a certainty. iJ^o man can apply the pow- 
ers of telescopes, larger than any before constructed, to scrutinize as he 
did every portion of the celestial depths, without being rewarded by 
some such discovery. He never swept the star-depths for an hour with- 
out meeting multitudes of hitherto unknown orbs, far mightier than the 
massive bulk of Uranus. These discoveries pass unrecorded save nu- 
merically, but they tended to the solution of the noblest problem which 
men have yet attempted to master. It was the same with the sou. All 
discoveries, all studies, w^ere subordinated to this one purpose, « A'«oh;Z- 
edge of the eonstruction of the heavens. 

In the pursuit of this single end it is not strange that the great pio- 
neer of star-observers should have formed opinions irom time to time 
which he afterwards abandoned as unsupported by facts. In his paper, 
printed in the Philosophical Transactions of 1785, Sir William Herschel 
had said, " I have now viewed and gauged the milky way in almost 
every direction, and find it composed of stars whose number constantly 
increases and decreases in proportion to its apparent brightness to the 
naked eye. That this shining zone is a most extensive stratum of stars 
of various sizes admits no longer of the least doubt, and that our sun 
is actually one of the heavenly bodies belonging to it is evident." In 
the plate accompanying this paper, our sun makes one of innumerable 
stars, all comparable with each other in magnitude, and distributed with 
approach to uniformity. 

In 1802, after his telescope had been asking seven years longer the 
secret of the skies, writing of our sun, magnificent as its system is, as 
only a single individual of the insidated stars, he says: "To this may 
be added that the stars we consider as insulated are also surrounded by 
a magnificent collection of innumerable stars called the milky way. 
For, though our sun and all the stars we see may truly be said to be 
in the plane of the milky way, yet I am now convinced by a long in- 
spection that the milky way itself consists of stars differently scattered 
from those which are immediately about us." 

Similar changes of opinion in regard to the nature of double stars, 
y s71 



130 SIR JOHN FREDERICK WILLIAM HERSCHEL. 

to the constitution of the vast star system, and to the nature of the 
nebulte, occurred, as he modified the principle of interpreting- his ob- 
servations. In 1811 he writes : " I find that by arranging the nebuhie 
in certain successive, regular order, they may be viewed in a new light, 
which cannot be indifferent to an inquiring mind." He now expressed 
the opinion that these aiebulai did not consist of multitudes of stars, 
but of some self-luminous substance of exceeding tenuity. He recog- 
nized the existence of this luminous vapor amidst large tracts of the 
heavens, and regarded it as lying within the limits of the galaxy. Nay 
more, he believed this vaporous matter to be the material from which 
the stars were made. According to this view, vast as has been tlie age 
of our galaxy, it has not completely formed itself into compact bodies. 
For many years he had held that all the nebulae are composed of stars. 
He now believed that some nebulce were not of a starry nature ; that a 
luminous matter existed in the universe in an elemental state; that 
the globular nebulae were the earliest formed and most advanced in 
growth 5 and that this vaporous or luminous matter lay within the line 
of the milky way, and formed part and parcel of its constitution. 

This new view taken by Sir William Herschel of the construction of 
the heavens, whether as respects extension in space or duration in time, 
is singularly impressive. It implies indeed an enormous diminution of 
dimensions. It reduces the supposed countless millions of stars around 
Orion to chaotic vapor. It contracts distances, so far beyond our star- 
system as not to be separately discerned by the most powerful glass, 
into spaces midway only between us and our galaxy. In reducing these 
distances many hundred times, this theory reduced the vastness of the 
objects many million times. But, on the other hand, it showed the 
milky way to be a more wonderful scheme than had ever been sup- 
posed. Vast as has been the period of its existence it had not yet 
entirely shaped itself into stars; over the regions where it extends, 
enormous masses of nebulous matter are still condensing into suns, and 
it becomes to the imagination a stupendous laboratory where systems of 
worlds have been produced and countless suns have had their genesis. 
Despite the ingenuity of illustration and incontestable force of reason- 
ing by which Sir William Herschel sought to establish this bold hyyoth- 
esis, it has not won general favor since his day. Observation seems 
conclusively to show that the greater the optical power of the telescope 
the more certain is the evidence that the nebulae are aggregations of 
stars. Sir John Herschel, too, with his usual reverential caution about 
controverting his father's dicta, seems to entertain this last opinion. 
" It may very reasonably be doubted," he wrote, '' whether there is any 
essential physical distinction between clusters of stars and those nebulae 
which my father regarded as composed of a shining nebulous fluid, and 
whether such distinction as there is be anything else than one of degree, 
arising merely from the excessive minuteness and multitude of the stars 
of which the latter compared with the former consist." 



SIR JOHN FREDERICK WILLIAM HERSCHEL. 131 

In the course of that stupendous work which has already been pointed 
out — the work of surveying those regions of space too distant to be seen 
by the naked eye — it would be a greater marvel than all their united dis- 
coveries had the Herschels never found occasion to change their views 
and remodel their theories. They did this, both father and son, once 
and again. " If it should be remarked," wrote Sir William Herschel in 
1811, " that in this new arrangement I am not entirely consistent with 
what I have already in former papers said on the nature of some objects 
that have come under mj-^ observation, I must freely confess that, by 
continuing my sweeps of the heavens, my opinion of the arrangement 
of stars and their magnitudes, and of some other particulars, has un- 
dergone a gradual change ; and, indeed, when the novelty of the sulyect 
is considered, we cannot be surprised that many things, formerly taken 
for granted, should on examination prove to be different from what they 
were generally but incautiously supposed to be. For instance, an e(iual 
scattering of the stars maybe admitted in certain calculations; but 
when we examine the milky way, or the closely compressed clusters of 
stars, this supposed equality of scattering must be given up. We may 
also have surmised nebuhe to be no other than clusters of stars dis- 
guised by their very great distance, but a longer experience and better 
acquaintance with the nature of nebuhie will not allow a general admis- 
sion of such a principle, although undoubtedlj- a cluster of stars may 
assume a nebulous appearance when it is too remote for us to discern 
the stars of which it is composed." In fact, M. Aragx)'s memoir of Sir 
William Uerschel, as well as the numerous papers of himself aud Sir 
John Jlerschel, which appeare<I from time to time, during more than 
three-quarters of a century, in the Transactions of the Royal Society 
and the Astronomical Society, show not only that the former modified his 
theories, gradually, indeed, but not infrequently, in accordance with 
newly-discovered facts, but also that Sir John Herschel's discoveries, 
though considerably in advance of the points reached by his father, but 
lying, nevertheless, strictly in the direction along which the elder had 
been progressing, led to the same result. Sir William uu)ditied his views 
about unequal double stars, concluding that the fainter orb is physically 
associated with the brighter one, instead of being far beyond it. He 
modified his views as to star- groups, regarding at last the masses of the 
milky way as aggregations of stars instead of depths extending into 
space. He had come to regard many star-clusters as part and parcel of 
the milky way; large numbers of nebulie as vai)orous luniinousmasses; 
and galaxies external to our system, as he once believed, a portion of 
the heavens with which he was familiar. Neither father nor son ever 
regretted to see hypotheses, though never so dearly cherished, pass 
beyond the iield of controversy into the domain of tiie known. 

Let us now turn to another consideration of Sir John Herschel — still 
necessarily but less closely, perhaps, connecting him with his father — 
the consideration of his character as a theorist in astronomy. As au 



132 SIR JOHN FREDERICK WILLIAM HERSCHEL. 

astronomical observer be was undeniably facile princeps, not merely 
among tbe astronomers of bis own country, but among all bis astro- 
nomical contemporaries. His mastery extended over tbe widest range. 
In bis general knowledge of tbe science of astronmy he was unap- 
ropacbed ; in tbe matbmetical department of tbe science be was proficient 
above most ; in bis knowledge of tbe details of observatory-work be 
was surpassed by none ; and as a ganger of tbe beavens by tbe largest 
telescopes be dwarfs into insignificance all tbe observational work ac- 
complisbed by astronomers living or dead. He went over tbe wbole 
range of bis fatlier's worli: tbrongb tbe nortbern skies, and tben com- 
pleted tbe survey of tbe beavens tliat bend over tbe soutbern bemis- 
pbere. He alone could boast tbat no part of tbe celestial deptbs bad 
escaped bis scrutiny. As an interpreter of natnre, be was unrivaled ; 
as au expounder of astronomical trutbs be bad no living peer, and as 
a tbeorist be commanded universal attention and compelled large as- 
sent.. 

In order to be clearly understood as to tbe meaning attached to tbe 
words " astronomical theorist,"' let us quote a passage from one of tbe 
papers of Sir William Herschel. It is taken from that noble essay con- 
tributed to the Transactions of tbe IJoyal Society, in which be brst pre- 
sented bis ideas respecting the constitution of the celestial depths. 

"■ First let me mention," be says, " that if we should hope to make 
any progress in investigations of a delicate nature, we ought to avoid 
two opposite extremes, of which I can hardly say which is the most dan- 
gerous. If we indulge a fanciful imagination snd build worlds of our 
own, we must not wonder at our going wide from the path of truth and 
nature ; but these will vanish like tbe Cartsian vortices tbat soon gave 
way when better theories were offered. On tbe other hand, if we add 
observation to observation, without attempting to draw, not only certain 
conclusions, but also conjectural views from them, we otieud against the 
very end for which only observations ought to be made." 

Sir John Herschel has also described the quality primarily requisite 
in a tbeorist. "As a first i»rei»aration," tbe paper goes on to say, "he 
must loosen his hold on all crude and hastily-adopted notions, and must 
strengthen himself by something like an effort antl a resolve for the un- 
prejudiced admission ol"any conclusion which shall appear to be supported 
by careful observation and logical argument, even should it prove of a 
nature adverse to notions he may have previously formed for himself, 
or taken up, without examination, on the credit of others. Such au ef- 
fort is, in fact, a commencement of tbat intellectual discipline which 
forms one of tbe most important ends of all science. It is the first 
movement of approach towards tbat state of mental purity which alone 
can fit us for a full and steady perception of moral beauty as well as 
physical adaptation. It is the 'euphrasy and rue' with which we must 
' purge our sight ' before we can receive and contemplate as they are 
the lineaments of truth and nature." . 



SIR JOHN FREDERICK WILLIAM HERSCHEL. 133 

These principles Sir John Herschel strictly observed. He approached 
every subject on which he proposed to theorize with " enforced mental 
purity." He divested himself of prejudice. Previous views, precon- 
ceived notions, pride of oi)inion were cast aside. Like a child, he went to 
Nature's school to learn what she had to teach. When he entered on 
his astronomical labors, double stars were supposed to be two stars seen 
ace id entail}/ in the same direction, and his lather had propounded the 
grandest views respecting galaxies beyond our own. Sir John Her- 
schel must have regarded these two theories with great favor, for they 
were associated with the name of his father. Notwithstanding this. Sir 
John devoted twenty-one years — eight in resurveying the fields of 
space which had been swept by his father's telescope, four in observa- 
tion of the southei'u heavens, and nine in reducing his work to form 
— in order to confirm or overturn, as facts might warrant, these hypo- 
theses of his father. From him we now know that double stars are not 
stars seen accidentally in tlie same direction, but are star-couples, asso- 
ciated by the mighty bond of common gravity. We also know that the 
second hypothesis did not bear the crucial test to which it was subjected. 
Other theories, indeed, of the elder Herschel, in their important feat- 
ures, were confirmed. It is not of that, however, that we speak, but 
of the conscientious honesty and philosophic spirit with which the son 
reviewed and continued his father's work, forever setting scientific 
truth higher than filial reverence. 

Sir John Herscliel was most sagacious in the interpretation of facts. 
Take, for example, his examination of the Magellauic clouds, those two 
curious patches on the southern celestial vault. He mapped their out- 
lines, pictured their minute stars, and colored and shaded their star- 
cloudlets. At this point others might have stopped. There was an 
array of interesting objects in certain regions of the heavens. What 
more could he say ? But Sir John Herschel was not thus satisfied. He 
reasoned from the globular shape of the JMagellanic clouds to the dis- 
tance of the star-cloudlets within them, thence to the scale on which 
they were formed, and thus deduced the most im])ortant conclusion, 
perhaps, ever arrived at in astronomy by abstract reasoning, to wit, that 
all the orders of star-cloudlets belong to our oicn system. 

Again, Sir John Herschel was deeply impressed with the existence of 
analogies throughout the whole range of creation. In a private letter 
written to Eichard A. Procter, as late as 1800, we find him saying : 
"An opinion which the structure of the Magellanic clouds has often 
suggested to me, has been strongly recalled by what you say of the 
inclusion of every variety of nebulous form within our galaxy, viz, that 
if such be the case, that is, if these forms belong to the galactic system, 
then that system includes within itself miniatures of itself on an almost 
infinitely reduced scale, and what evidence then have we that there 
exists a universe beyond, unless a sort of argument from analogy, that 
the galaxy, with all its contents, may be hut one of these miniatures of 



134 SIR JOHN P^REDERICK WILLIAM HERSCHEL. 

tliat vast universe, and so ou an infinitum^ and that in that universe there 
niaj' exist multitudes of other systems on a scale as vast as our galaxy, 
the analogues of those other nebulous and clustering forms which are 
not miniatures of our galaxy'?" 

As an illustration of his power of tracing- the chain that binds cause 
and effect, we may refer to a passage in bis Treaties ou Astronomy. 
Tracing- the connection between the central luminary of our system and 
terrestrial phenomena. Sir John remarks that "the sun's rays are the 
ultimate source of almost every motion that takes place on the surface of 
the earth. By its heat are produced the winds and those disturbances ou 
the electric equilibrium of the atmosphere which give rise to the 
phenomena of lightning, antl probably also to those of terrestrial 
magnetism and the aurora. By their vivifying action vegetables are 
enabled to draw support from inorganic matter, and become in their 
turn the support of animals and man, and the sources of those great 
deposits of dynamical efficiency which are laid up for human use in our 
coal strata. By them the waters <yi the sea are made to circulate in 
vapors through the air and irrigate the land, producing springs and 
rivers. By them are produced all disturbances of the chemical equi- 
librium of the elements of nature, which by a series of compositions and 
decompositions give rise to new products and originate transfers of 
material. Even the slow degradation of the solid constituents of the 
surface, in which its chief geological changes consist, is almost entirely 
due, on the one hand to the abrasion of Avind and rain, and the alterna- 
tion of heat and frost, and ou the other hand to the continual beating 
of sea- waves, the result of solar radiation." 

He was an admirable expounder of scientific principles. His style of 
writing is perhaps cumbrous, and his sentences are often long- and in- 
volved. But the thought he would express, like a thread of silver 
running through a web of purple, is always clear. The popular taste for 
astronomical studies is due to his writings more than to those of all other 
men. 

He, of all others, held mastery over pride of self-opinion. His own 
errors he admitted instantly they Avere discovered. Upon theories of 
others he worked as fairly and patiently as upon his own. He never 
struggled for a known error nor declined to accept aproven truth. With 
untiring ])atience, observing skill, and ingenious device, he sought earn- 
estly to detect IVdsehood in his own opinions, and to discover truth in the 
opinions of others. It is said that he had a feeble grasp upon facts ; that 
while his father clung with vise-like grip to the sure and the known, he 
at times allowed them to slip from his grasp. " If so, it were a grievous 
iault." But so few are the instances — not above two or three — cited by 
those who allege this, so unimportant are the facts named, so apparent is 
the motive, iniconscious it nuiy be to themselves, of the theorizers who 
urge the objection, that it would seem probable that his opinions upon the 
facts had been misinterpreted or his statemei^s of them misunderstood. 



SIR JOHN FREDERICK WILLIAM HERSCHEL. 135 

Even if this blemish exists, it is but as a spot upon tbe sun. It argues 
no more tban that in one particular the son was second to the father. 
But without more satisfactory evidence we prefer to range ourselves 
among the doubters, and to be among the number of those who believe 
that Sir John Herschel's reasoning was never in a single instance marred 
by a forgotten fact. 

In the contemplation of the work of the two Herschels, let us remark 
in conclusion, and what that work has revealed to us, the mind stands 
ap])alled. Reason shrinks before the specter of boundless creation. 
If our sun and all his planets, primary and secondary, are in rapid 
motion round an invisible focus — if from that mysterious center no ray 
of light has ever reached our globe, then the buried relics of primeval 
life have taught us less of man's brief tenure on this terrestrial paradise 
than we learn from the lesson of the stars. The one may date back 
unnumbered centuries, the other declares that from the origin of the 
human race to its far distant future the system to which it belongs will 
have described but an infinitesimal arc of an immeasurable circle in 
which it is destiued to revolve. 

He married ^largaret Brodie, daughter of Dr. Stewart, in 1829; she 
and a numerous familj' survive him. Two of his sons are already very 
favorably known in the realm of science, and their father lived to see 
one of them selected by the council for election to the Eoyal Society. 
Another son has an important professorship in the north of England. 
The eldest son, the present Sir William Herschel, occupies, with dis- 
tinguished merit, a very important post in the civil service of Bengal. 

Herschel's whole life, like the lives of i^ewton and Faraday, confutes 
the assertion, and ought to remove the suspicion, that a profound study 
of nature is unfavorable to a sincere acceptance of the Christian faith. 
Surrounded by an affectionate family, of which he was long spared to 
be the pride, the guide, and the life. John Herschel died, as he had lived, 
in the unostentatious exercise of a devout, yet simple, taith. 



JOSEPH FOURIER. 



BIOGrAniY READ BEFORE THE FREXCII ACADEMY OF SCIENCES, BY M. ARAGO. 



Gentlemen : In former times one Academician differed from another 
only in the number, the nature, and the brilliancy of his discoveries. 
Their lives, thrown in some respects into the same mold, consisted of 
events little worthy of remark. A boyhood more or less studious ; pro- 
gress sometimes slow, sometimes rapid ; inclinations thwarted by capri- 
cious or shortsighted parents • inadequacy of means, the privations whi(;h 
it introduces in its train ; thirty years of a laborious professors! ii[) and 
difficult studies — such were the elements from which the admirable tal- 
ents of the early secretaries of the Academy were enabled to execute 
those portraits so piquant, so lively, and so varied, which form one of 
the princi[)al ornaments of your learned collections. 

In the present day, biographies are less confined in tlieir object. The 
convulsions which France has experienced in emancipating herself from 
the swaddling-clothes of routine, of superstition, and of privilege, have 
cast into the storms of political life citizens of all ages, of all conditions, 
and of all characters. Thus has the Academy of Sciences ligured during 
forty years in the devouring arena, wherein might and right have alter- 
nately seized the supreme power by a glorious sacrifice of combatants 
and victims! 

Recall to mind, for example, the immortal National Assembly. You 
will find at its head a modest Academician, a pattern of all the private 
virtues, the unfortunate Bailly, who, in the different phases of his politi- 
cal life, knew how to reconcile a passionate aft'ection for his country with 
a moderation which his most cruel enemies themselves have been com- 
pelled to admire. 

When, at a later period, coalesced Europe launched against France a 
million of soldiers ; when it became necessary to organize lV)r the crisis 
fourteen armies, it was the ingenious author of the Ussai sur Ics Machines 
and of the Geometric dcs Ponifions who directed this gigantic operation. 
It was again Carnot, our honorable colleague, who presided over the 
inconq)arable campaign of seventeen months, during which French 
troops, novices in the profession of arms, gained eight pitched battles, 
were victorious in one hundred and forty combats, occupied one hun- 
dred and sixteen fortified places, and two hundred and thirty forts or 
redoubts, enriched our arsenals with four thousand cannon and seventy 
thousand muskets, took a hundred thousand prisoners, and adorned 
the dome of the Invalids with ninety flags. During the same time 



138 JOSEPH FOURIER. 

the Cliaptals, tbe Fourcroys, the Monges, the Berthollets, rushed also 
to the defense of French independence, some of them extracting from 
our soil, by prodigies of industry, the very last atoms of saltpeter 
which it contained ; others transforming, by the aid of uew and rapid 
methods, the bells of the towns, viHages, and smallest hamlets into a 
formidable artillery, which our enemies supposed, as indeed they had a 
right to suppose, we were deprived of. At the voice of his country in 
danger, another Academiciau, the young and learned Meunier, readily 
renounced the seductive pursuits of the laboratory ; he went to distin- 
guish himself upon the ramparts of Konigstein, to contribute as a hero 
to the long defense of Mayence, and met his death, at the age of forty 
years only, after having attained the highest position in a garrison 
wherein shone the Aubert-Dubayets, the Beaupuys, the Haxos, the 
Klebers. 

How could I forget here the last secretary of the original Academy? 
Follow him into a celebrated assembly, into that convention, the sanguin- 
ary delirium of which we might almost be inclined to pardon, when we 
call to mind how gloriously terrible it was to the enemies of our inde- 
pendence, and you will always see the illustrious Condorcet occupied 
exclusively with the great interests of reason and humanity. Yon will 
hear him denounce the shameful brigandage which for two centuries 
laid waste the African continent by a .system of corruption ; demand in 
a tone of profound conviction that the code be purified of the frightful 
stain of capital punishment, which renders the error ol' the judge for- 
ever irreparable. He is the official organ of the Assembly on every ottca- 
sion when it is necessary to address soldiers, citizens, political parties, 
or foreign nations in language worthy of France; he is not the tactician 
of any party ; he incessantly entreats all of them to occupy tlieir atten- 
tion less with their own interests and a little more with public mat- 
ters ; he rei)lies, finally, to unjust reproaches of weakness by acts which 
leave him the only alternative of the poison en]} or the scaffold. 

The French Eevolution thus threw the learned geometer, whose dis- 
coveries T am about to celebrate, far away from the route which destiny 
appeared to have traced out for him. In ordinary times it would be 
about Dom * Joseph Fourier that the secretary of the Academy would 
have deemed it his duty to have occu])ied your attention. It would be 
the trancpiil, the retired life of a Benedictine which he would have 
unfolded to you. The life of our colleague, on the contrary, will be agi- 
tated and full of perils; it will pass into the fierce contentions of the 
forum and amid the hazards of war ; it will be a prey to all the anxieties 
which accomi)any a difficult administration. We shall find this life inti- 
mately associated with the great events of our age. Let us hasten to 
add, that it will be always worthy and honorable, and that the personal 
qualities of the man of science will enhance the brilliancy of his dis- 
coveries. 

*Aii abbreviation of Doniiuus, equivalent to the English <piefix Reverend.— TraMsktor. 



JOSEPH FOURIER. 139 

Fourier was born at Auxerre on the 21.st of March, 17GS. His father, 
like that of the illustrious geometer Lambert, was a tailor. This cir- 
cumstance would formerly have occupied a large place in the elof/e of 
our learned colleague ; thanks to the progress of enlightened ideas, I 
may mention the circumstance as a fact of no importance : uol)ody, in 
effect, thinlcs in the present day, nobody even pretends to think, that 
genius is the privilege of r;ink or fortune. 

Fourier became an orphan at the age of eight years. A lady who 
had remarked the amiability of his manners and his precocious natural 
abilities, recommended him to the bishop of iVuxerre. Through the 
influence of this prelate, Fourier was admitted into the mUitary school 
which was conducted at that time by the Benedictines of the Convent 
of St. Mark. There he prosecuted his literary studies with surprising 
rapidity aud success. ]\Iany sermons very much applauded at Paris in 
the month of high dignitaries of the church were emanations from the 
pen of the schoolboy of twelve years of age. It would be impossible in 
the present day to trace those first compositions of the youth Fourier, 
since, while divulging the plagiarism, he had the discretion never to 
name those who profited by it. 

At thirteen years Fourier had the petulence, the noisy vivacity of 
most young people of the same age; but his character changed all at 
once, and as if by enchantment, as soon as he was initiated in the first 
principles of mathematics, that is to say, as soon as he became sensible 
of his real vocation. The hours prescribed for study no longer sufficed 
to gratify his insatiable curiosity. Ends of candles carefully collected 
in the kitchen, the corridors and the refectory of the college, and placed 
on a hearth concealed by a screen, served during the night to illuminate 
the solitary studies by which Fourier prei)ared himself for those labors 
which were destined, a few years afterward, to adorn his name and his 
country. 

In a military school directed by monks, the minds of the pupils neces- 
sarily waver only between two careers in life — the church and the sword. 
Like Descartes, Fourier wished to be a soldier; like that philosopher, 
he Avould doubtless have found the life of a garrison very wearisome. 
But he was not permitted to make the experiment. His demand to 
undergo the examination for the artillery, although strongly sui)ported 
by our illustrious colleague Legendre, was rejected with a severity of 
expression of which you may judge yourselves: "Fourier," replied the 
minister, " not being noble, could not enter the artillery, although he 
were a second I^^ewton." 

Gentlemen, there is in the strict enforcement of regulations, even 
when they are most absurd, something respectable, which 1 have a 
pleasure in recognizing; in the present instance nothing could soften 
the odious character of the minister's words. It is not true in reality 
that no one could formerly enter into the artillery who did not possess 
a title of nobility : a certain fortune frequently supplied the want of 



140 JOSEPH FOURIER. 

parchments. Thus it was not a something uuilefinable, which, by the 
way, our ancestors, the Franks, had not yet invented, that was wanting 
to young Fourier, but rather an income of a few hundred livres, which 
the men who were then phiced at the head of the country would have 
refused to acknowledge the genius of Newton as a just equivalent for! 
Treasure up these facts, gentlemen ; they form an admirable illustration 
of the immense advances which France has made during the last forty 
years. Posterity, moreover, will see in this, not the excuse, but the 
explanation of some of those sanguinary dissensions which stained our 
first revolution. 

Fourier, not having been enabled to gird on the sword, assumed the 
habit of a Benedictine, and repaired to the Abbey of St. Beuoit-sur-Loire, 
where he intended to pass the period of his novitiate. He had not yet 
taken any vows when, in 1789, every mind was captivated, with beauti- 
fully seductive ideas relative to the social regeneration of France. 
Fourier now renounced the profession of the church ; but this circum- 
stance did not prevent his former masters from appointing him to the 
principal chair of mathematics in the military school of Auxerre, and 
bestowiug upon him numerous tokens of a lively and sincere aftection. I 
venture to assert that no event in the life of our colleague affords a more 
striking proof of the goodness of his natural disposition and the amia- 
bility of his manners. It Avould be necessary not to know the human 
heart to suppose that the monks of St. Benoit did not feel some chagrin 
upon finding themselves so abruptly abandoned, to imagine especially 
that they should give up without lively regret the glory which the order 
might have expected from the ingenious colleague who had just escaped 
from them. 

Fourier responded worthily to the confidence of which he had just 
become the object. When his colleagues were indisposed, the titular 
professor of mathematics occupied in turns the chairs of rhetoric, of 
history, and of philosophy; and whatever might be the subject of his 
lectures, he diffused among an audience which listened to him with de- 
light the treasures of a varied and profound erudition, adorned with all 
the brilliancy which the most elegant diction could impart to them. 

About the close of the year 1789, Fourier repaired to Paris and read 
before the Academy of Sciences a memoir on the resolution of numerical 
equations of all degrees. This work of his early youth our colleague, so 
to speak, never lost sight of. He explained it at Paris to the ])U])ils of 
the Polytechnic School ; he developed it upon the banks of the Nile in 
presenceof the Institute of Egypt ; at Grenoble, from the year 1802, it was 
his favorite subjectt of conversation with the i)rofessors of the Central 
School and of the faculty of sciences. This finally contained the elements 
of the work which Fourier was engaged in seeing through the i)ress when 
death put an end to his career. 

A scientific subject does not occupy so much space in the life of a man 
of science of the first rank without being ii^portant and difiicult. 



JOSEPH FOURIER. 141 

The .subject of algebraic analysis above mentioned, wliicli Fourier had 
studied with a perseverance so remarkable, is not an exception to this 
rule. It oifers itself in a great number of ap})lications of calculation to 
the movements of the heavenly bodies, or to the physics of terres- 
trial bodies, and in general in the problems which lead to equations of 
a high degree. As soon as he wishes to <iuit the domain of abstract re- 
lations, the calculator has occasion to employ the roots of these equa- 
tions ; thus the art of discovering them by the aid of a uniform method, 
either exactly or by approximation, did not fail at an early period to 
excite the attention of geometers. 

An observant eye perceives already some traces of their efforts in the 
writings of the mathematicians of the Alexandrian school. These traces, 
it nnist be acJciiowleih/ed, are so slight and so imperfect that Ave should 
truly be justified in referring the origin of this branch of analysis only 
to the excellent lal)ors of our countryman Vieta. Descartes, to whom 
we render v*ry imperfect justice when we content ourselves with saying 
that he taught us much when he taught us to doubt, occupied his atten- 
tion also for a short time with this problem, and left upon it the indelible 
impress of his powerful mind. Hudde gave for a particular but very 
important case rules to which nothing has since been added, liolle, of 
the Academy of Sciences, devoted to this one subject his entire life. 
Among our neighbors on the other side of the channel, Harriot, Xewton, 
Alaclauriu, Stirling, Waring — I may say all the illustrious geometers 
which England produced in the last century — made it also the subject of 
their researches. Some years afterward the names of Daniel Bernoulli, 
of Euler, and of Fontaine came to be added to so many great names. 
Finally, Lagrange in his turn embarked in the same career, and at the 
very commencement of his researches he succeeded in substituting for 
the imperfect, although very ingenious, essays of his predecessors, a 
complete method which was free from every objection. From that 
instant the dignity of science was satisfied ; but in such a case it would 
not be permitted to say with the poet — 

" Lc touips lie fait rieii a I'affaire." 

ISTow, although the processes invented by Lagrange, simple in princi- 
ple and applicable to every case, have theoretically the merit of leading 
to the result with certainty, still, on the other hand, they demand cal- 
culations of a most re[)ulsive length. It remained then to perfect the 
practical part of the question : it was necessary to devise the means of 
shortening the route without depriving it in any degree of its certainty. 
Such Mas the principal object of the researches of Fourier, and this he 
has attained to a great extent. 

Descartes had already found, in the order according to which the 
signs of the different terms of any numerical equation whatever succeed 
each other, the means of deciding, for example, how many real ])ositive 
roots this equation may have. Fourier advanced a step further: he 



142 JOSEPH FOURIER. 

discovered a metliod for dcterininmg what number of the equally posi- 
tive roots of every equation may be found included between two given 
quantities. Here certain calculations become necessary, but they are 
very simple, and whatever be the precision desired, they lead without 
any trouble to the solutions sought for. 

I doubt whether it were possible to cite a single scientific discovery 
of any importance which has not excited discussions of priority. The 
new method of Fourier for solving numerical equations is in this respect 
amply comprised within the common law. We ought, however, to ac- 
knowledge that the theorem which serves as the basis of this method 
was lirst published by M. Budan ; that according to a rule which the 
principal academies of Europe have solemnly sanctioned, and from which 
the historian of the sciences dares not deviate without falling into arbi- 
trary assumptions and confusion, M. Budan ought to be considered as 
the inventor. I will assert with equal assurance that it would be im- 
possible to refuse to Fourier the merit of having attained the same ob- 
ject by his own eflbrts. I even regret that, in order to establish rights 
which nobody has contested, he deemed it necessary to have recourse 
to the certificates of early pupils of the Polytechnic School or profes- 
sors of the University. Since our colleague had the modesty to suppose 
that his simple declaration would not be sufiieieut, why (and the argu- 
ment would have had much weight) did he not remarii in M'hat respect 
his demonstration differed from that of his competitor? — an admirable 
demonstration, in effect, and oue so impregnated with the elements of 
the question, that a young geometer, M. Sturm, has just emi)loyed it to 
establish the truth of the beautiful theorem by the aid of which he de- 
termines not the simple limits, but the exact number of roots of any 
equation whatever which are comi)rised between two given quantities. 

We had just left Fourier at Paris, submitting to the Academy of Sci- 
ences the analytical memoir of which 1 have just given a general view. 
Upon his return to Auxerre, the young geometer found the town, tJbe 
surrounding country', and even the school to which he belonged, occu- 
pied intensely with the great questions relative to the dignity of human 
nature, philosophy, and politics, which were then discussed by the ora- 
tors of the different parties of the National Assembly. Fourier aban- 
doned himself also to this movement of the human mind. He embraced 
with enthusiasm the principles. of the Eevolution, and he ardently asso- 
ciated himself with everything grand, just, and generous which the pop- 
ular impulse olfered. His i)atriotism made him accept the most difticult 
missions. AVe may assert, that never, even when his life was at stake, 
did he truckh^ to the base, covetous, and sanguinary passions which dis- 
played themselves on all sides. 

A member of the popular society of Auxerre, Fourier exercised there 
an almost irresistible ascendency. One day — all Burgundy has pre- 
served the remembrance of it — on the occasion of a levy of three hun- 
dred thousand men, he made the words honor, country, glory, ring so 



JOSEPH FOURIER. 143 

eloquently, he iuduced so many voluntary enrollments, that the ballot 
was not deemed necessary. At the command of the orator the contin- 
gent assigned to the chief town of the Yonne formed in order, assembled 
together within the very enclosure of the Assembly, and marched forth- 
with to the frontier. Unfortunately these struggles of the forum, in 
which so many noble lives then exercised themselves, were far from 
having always a real importance, llidiculous, absurd, and burlesque 
notions injured incessantly the inspirations of a pure, sincere, and en- 
lightened patriotism. The popular society of Auxerre would furnish us, 
in case of necessity, with more than one example of those lamentable 
contrasts. Thus I might say that in the very same apartment wherein 
Fourier knew how to excite the honorable sentiments wldcli I ha^'e with 
pleasure recalled to mind, he had on another occasion to contend with 
a certain orator, perhaps of good intentions, but assuredly a bad astron- 
omer, who wishing to escape, said he, from the fjood pleasure of munici- 
pal rulers, proposed that the names of the north, east, south, and west 
quarters should be assigned by lot to the different parts of the town of 
Auxerre. 

Literature, the fine arts, and the sciences appeared for a moment to 
flourish under the auspicious influence of the French Eevolution. Ob- 
serve, for example, with what grandeur of conception the reformation 
of weights and measures was planned ; what geometers, what astrono- 
mers, what eminent philosophers presided over every department of this 
noble undertaking ! Alas ! frightful revolutions in the interior of the 
country soon saddened this magnificent spectacle. The sciences could 
not prosper in the midst of the desperate contest of factions. They 
would have blushed to owe any obligations to the men of blood, whose 
blind passions immolated a Saron, a Bailly, and a Lavoisicre. 

A few months after the 9th Thermidor, the convention being desirous 
of diffusing throughout the country ideas of order, civilization, and in- 
ternal pi'osperity, resolved upon organizing a system of public instruc- 
tion, but a difticulty arose in finding professors. The members of the 
corps of instruction had become ofticers of artillery, of engineering, or 
of the staff, and were combating the enemies of France at the frontiers. 
Fortunately at this epoch of intellectual exaltation, nothing seemed im- 
possible. Professors were wanting: it was resolved without delay to 
create some, and the normal school sprung into existence. Fifteen hun- 
dred citizens of all ages, dispatched from the principal district towns, 
assembled together, not to study in all their ramifications the dilferent 
branches of human knowledge, but in order to learn the art of teaching 
under the greatest masters. 

Fourier was one of these fifteen hundred pupils. It will, no doubt, 
excite some surprise that he was elected at St. Florentine, and that 
Auxerre appeared insensible to the honor of being represented at Paris 
by the most illustrious of her children. Put this indifference will be 
readily understood. The elaborate scafiblding of calumny which it has 



144 



JOSEPH FOURIER. 



served to support will fall to the ground as soon as I recall to mind, 
that after the 9tli Tlieriuidor the capital, and especially the i)roYiuces, 
became a prey to a blind and disorderly reaction, as all political reac- 
tions invariably are; that crime (the crime of having changed opinions — 
it was nothing less hideous) usurped the place of justice; that excellent 
citizens ; that pure, moderate, and conscientious patriots were daily 
massacred by hired bands of assassins in presence of whom the inhabit- 
ants remained mute with fear. Such are, gentlemen, the formidable 
influences which for a moment deprived Fourier of the suffrages of his 
countrymen ; and caricatured, as a iiartisan of Eobespierre, the individ- 
ual whom St. Just, making allusion to his sweet and ijersuasive elo- 
quence, styled niyatnot in music ; who was so often thrown into prison 
by the Decemvirs ; who, at the very height of the reign of terror, oifered 
before the revolutionary tribunal the assistance of his admirable talents to 
the mother of Marshal Davoust, accused of the crime of having at that 
unrelenting epoch sent some money to the emigrants ; who had the in- 
credible boldness to shut up at the inn of Tonnerre an agent of the com- 
mittee of public safety, into the secret of whose mission he penetrated, 
and thus obtained time to warn an honorable citizen that he was about 
to be arrested; who, finally, attaching himself personally to the san- 
guinary proconsul before whom every one trembled in Yonne, made him 
pass for a madman, and obtained his recall ! You see, gentlemen, some 
of the acts of patriotism, of devotion, and of humanity which signalized 
the early years of Fourier. They were, you have seen, repaid with in- 
gratitude. But ought we, in reality, to be astonished at it f To expect 
gratitude from the man who cannot make an avowal of his feelings with- 
out danger would be to shut one's eyes to the frailty of human nature 
and to expose one's self to frequent disappointments. 

In the normal school of the convention, discussion from time to time 
succeeded ordinary lectures. On those days an interchange of charac- 
ters was effected : the pupils interrogated the professors. Some words 
pronounced by Fourier at one of those curious and useful meetings suf- 
ficed to attract attention toward him. Accordingly, as soon as a ne- 
cessity was felt to create masters of conference, all eyes were turned to- 
ward the pupil of St. Florentine. The precision, the clearness, and the 
elegance of his lectures soon ijrocured for him the unanimous applause 
of the fastidious and numerous audience which was confided to him. 

When he attained the height of his scientific and literary glory, 
Fourier used to look back with pleasure upon the year 171»-l, and upon 
the sublime eflbrts which the French nation then made for the purpose 
of organizing a corps of public instruction. If he had ventured, the title 
of pupil of the original normal school would have been beyond doubt that 
which he would have assumed by way of preference. Gentlemen, that 
school perished of cold, of wretchedness, and of hunger, and not, what- 
ever people may say, from certain defects of organization, which time and 
reflection would have easily rectified. Notwithstanding its short exist- 



JOSEPH FOURIER. 145 

eiice, it imparted to scieutiflc studies quite a uew direction, wliicli Las 
been i^roductive of the most important results. In supporting this 
opinion at some length, I shall acquit myself of a task which Fourier 
would certainly have imposed upon me, if he could have suspected that 
with just and eloquent eulogiums of his character and his labors there 
should mingle within the walls of this apartment, and even emanate 
from the mouth of one of his successors, sharp critiques of his beloved 
normal school. 

It is to the normal school that we must inevitably ascend if we would 
desire to ascertain the earliest public teaching of descriptive geometry, 
that fine creation of the genius of Monge. It is from this source that it 
has passed almost without modification to the Polytechnic School, to 
founderies, to manufactories, and the most humble workshops. 

The establishment of the ]Srormal School accordingly indicates the com- 
mencement of a veritable revolution in the study of pure mathematics; 
with it demonstrations, methods, and important theories, buried in 
academical collections, appeared for the first time before the pupils, and 
encouraged them to recast upon new bases the works destined for 
instruction. 

With some rare exceptions, the philosophers engaged in the cultiva- 
tion of science constituted formerly in France a class totally distinct 
from that of the professors. By appointing the first geometers, the first 
philosophers, and the first naturalists of the world to be professors, the 
convention threw new luster u^^on the profession of teaching, the ad- 
vantageous influence of which is felt in the present day. In the opinioa 
of the public at large, a title which a Lagrange, a Laplace, a Monge, a 
Berthollet, had borne, became a proper mat-ch to the finest titles. If 
under the empire, the Polytechnic School counted among its active pro- 
fessors councilors of state, ministers, and the president of the senate, 
you must look for the explanation of this fact in the impulse given by 
the Normal School. 

You see in the ancient great colleges professors concealed in some 
degree behind their portfolios, reading as from a pulpit, amid the indif- 
ference and inattention of their pupils, discourses prepared beforehand 
with great labor, and which reappear every year in the same form. 
Nothing of this kind existed at the Normal School ; oral lessons alone 
were there permitted. The authorities even went so far as to require of 
the illustrious savants appointed to the task of instruction the formal 
promise never to recite any lectures which they might have learned b}^ 
heart. From that time the chair has become a tribune where the pro- 
fessor, identified, so to speak, with his audience, sees in their looks, 
in their gestures, in their countenance, sometimes the necessity for pro- 
ceeding at greater speed, sometimes, on the contrary, the necessity of 
retracing his steps, of awakeuiag the attention by some incidental ob- 
servations, of clothing in a new form the thought which, when first 
expressed, had left some doubts in the minds of his audience. And do 
10 s 71 



14G JOSEPH FOURIER. 

not suppose that the beautiful impromptu lectures with which the amphi- 
theater of the Normal School resounded remained unknown to the 
public. Short-hand writers paid by the State reported them. The 
sheets, after beinj? revised by the professors, were sent to the fifteen 
hundred pupils, to the members of convention, to the consuls and agents 
of the republic in foreign countries, to all governors of districts. There 
was in this something certainly of profusion compared with the parsi- 
monious and mean habits of our time. Nobody, however, would concur 
in this reproach, however slight it may appear, if I were permitted to 
point out in this very apartment an illustrious Academician, whose 
mathematical genius was awakened by the lectures of the Normal School 
in an obscure district town. 

The necessity of demonstrating the important services, ignored in the 
present day, for which the dissemination of the sciences is indebted to 
the first Normal School, has inducod me to dwell at greater length on the 
subject than I intended. I hope to be pardoned ; the example in any 
case will not be contagious. Eulogiums of the past, you know, gentle- 
men, are no longer fashionable. Everything which is said, everything 
which is printed, induces us to suppose that the world is the creation of 
yesterday. This opinion, which allows to each a part more or less 
brilliant in the cosmogonic drama, is under the safeguard of too many 
vanities to have anything to fear from the efforts of logic. 

I have already stated that the brilliant success of Fourier at the Nor- 
mal School assigned to him a distinguished place among the persons 
whom natiu^e has endowed in the highest degree with the talent of jjub- 
lic tuition. Accordingly, he was not forgotten by the founders of the 
Polytechnic School. Attached to that celebrated establishment, first 
with the titJe of superintendent of lectures on fortification, afterward 
appointed to deliver a course of lectures on analysis, Fourier has left 
there a venerated name, and the reputation of a professor distinguished 
by clearness, method, and erudition ; I shall add even the reputation of 
a professor full of grace, for our colleague has proved that this kind of 
merit may not be foreign to the teaching of mathematics. 

The lectures of Fourier have not been collected together. The Jour- 
nal of the Polytechnic School contains only one paper by him, a memoir 
upon the '' Principle of virtual velocities." This memoir, which prob- 
ably had served for the text of a leoture, show^s that the secret of our 
celebrated professor's great success consisted in the combination of 
abstract truths, of interesting applications, and of historical details 
little known, and derived, a thing so rare in our days, from original 
sources. 

We have now* arrived at the epoch when the peace of Leobeu brought 
back to the metropolis the principal ornaments of our armies. Then 
the professors and the pupils of the Polytechnic School had sometimes 
the distinguished honor of sitting in their amphitheaters beside Gen- 
erals Desaix and Bonaparte. Everything ir^dicated to them then an 



JOSEPH FOURIER. 147 

active participation iu the events wliicli each foresaw, and wbieh in fact 
were not long in occurring. 

[N'otwitbstanding the precarious condition of Europe, the Directory 
decided upon denuding the country of its best troops, and launching 
them upon an adventurous expedition. The five chiefs of the republic 
were then desirous of removing from Paris the conqueror of Italy, of 
thereby putting an end to the popular demonstrations of which he every- 
where formed the object, and which sooner or later would become a real 
danger. 

On the other hand, the illustrious general d id not dream merely of the mo- 
mentary conquest of Egypt; he wished to restore to that country its ancient 
splendor; he wished to extend its cultivation, to improve its system of 
irrigation, to create new branches of industry, to open to commerce 
numerous outlets, to stretch out a helping hand to the unfortunate in- 
habitants, to rescue them from the galling yoke under Vvhicli they had 
groaned for ages — in a word, to bestow upon them without delay all the 
benefits of European civilization. Designs of such magnitude could not 
have been accomplished with the mere personnel of an ordinary army. 
It was necessary to appeal to science, to literature, and to the fine arts ; 
it was necessary to ask the cooperation of several men of judgment and 
of experience. Mouge and Berthollet, both members of the Institute 
and professors in the Polytechnic School, became, with a view to this 
object, the principal recruiting aids to the chief of the expedition. Were 
our-colleagues really acquainted with the object of this expedition ? I 
dare not reply in the affirmative; but I know at all events that they 
were not permitted to divulge it. We are going to a distant country ; 
we shall embark at Toulon ; we shall be constantly with you; General 
Bonaparte will command the army, such was in form and substance the 
limited amount of confidential information which had been imperiously 
traced out to them. Upon the faith of words so vague, with the chances 
of a naval battle, with the English hulks in perspective, go in the pres- 
ent day and endeavor to enroll a father of a family, a savant already 
known by useful labors and placed in some honorable position, an artist 
in possession of the esteem and confidence of the public, and I am much 
mistaken if you obtain anything else than refusals ; but in 1798, France 
had hardly emerged from a terrible crisis, during which her very ex- 
istence was frequently at stake. Who, besides, had not encountered 
imminent personal danger % Who had not seen with his own eyes enter- 
prises of a truly desperate nature brought to a fortunate issue ? Is any- 
thing more wanted to explain that adventurous character, that absence 
of all care for the morrow, which appears to have been one of the most 
distinguishing features of the epoch of the Directory. Fourier accepted 
then, without hesitation, the proposals which his colleagues brought to 
him in the name of the commander-in-chief; he quitted the agreeable 
duties of a professor of the Polytechnic School to go — he knew not where; 
to do — he knew not what. 



148 JOSEPH FOURIER. 

Chance placed Fourier duriug the voyage in the vessel in which 
Kleber sailed. The friendship which the philosopher and the warrior 
vowed to each other from that moment was not without some influence 
upon the events of which Egypt was the theater after the departure of 
Napoleon. 

He wlio signed his orders of the day, the 31emher of the Institute, Com- 
mander-in-ckief of the Army in the East, could not fail to place an academy 
among the means of regenerating the ancient kingdom of the Pharaohs. 
The valiant army which he commanded had barely conquered at Cairo, 
on the occasion of the memorable battle of the Pyramids, when the In- 
stitute of Egypt sprung into existence. It consisted of forty-eight mem- 
bers, divided into four sections. Monge had the honor of being the 
first president. As at Paris, Bonapnrte belonged to the section of 
mathematics. The situation of perpetual secretary, the tilling up of 
which was left to the free choice of the society, was unanimously assigned 
to Fourier. 

You have seen the celebrated geometer discharge the same duty at 
the Academy of Sciences ; you have appreciated his liberality of mind, 
his enlightened benevolence, his unvarying affability, his straightforward 
and conciliatory disposition ; add in imagination to so many rare quali- 
ties the activity which youth, which health, can alone give, and you will 
have again conjured into existence the secretary of the Institute of 
Egypt; and yet the portrait which 1 have attempted to draw of him 
would grow pale beside the original. 

Upon the banks of the Nile, Fourier devoted himself to assiduous 
researches on almost every branch of knowledge which the vast plan of 
the Institute embraced. The Decade and the Courier of Ugjjpt will 
acquaint the reader with the titles of his difiterent labors. 1 find 
in these journals a memoir upon the general solution of algebraic 
equations; researches on the methods of elimination ; the demonstra- 
tion of a new theorem of algebra ; a memoir upon the indeterminate 
analysis; studies on general mechanics; a technical and historical 
work upon the aqueduct which conveys the waters of the Nile to the 
Castle of Cairo; reflections upon the oases; the plan of statistical 
researches to be undertaken with respect to the state of Egypt ; pro- 
gramme of an intended exploration of the site of ancient Memphis, and 
of the whole extent of burying-places ; a descriptive account of the 
revolutions and manners of Egypt, from the time of its conquest bj' 
Selim. 

I find also in the Egyptian Decade, that, on the first complementary 
day of the year VI, Fourier communicated to the Institute the descrip- 
tion of a machine designed to promote irrigation, and which was to be 
driven by the power of wind. 

This work, so far removed from the ordinary current of the ideas of 
our colleague, has not been printed. It would very naturally find a 
place in a work of which the expedition to Egypt might again furnish 



JOSEPH FOURIER. 149 

the subject, notwithstanding^ the many beautiful publications which it 
has already called into existence. It would be a description of" the man- 
ufactories of steel, of arms, of powder, of cloth, of machines, and of 
instruments of every kind which our army had to prepare for the occa- 
sion. If, during- our infancy, the expedients which Robinson Crusoe 
practiced in order to escape from the romantic dangers which he had 
incessantly to encounter, excite our interest in a lively degree, how, in 
mature age, could we regard with indiflerence a handful of Frenchmen 
thrown upon the inhospitable shores of Africa, without any possible 
communication with the mother-country, obliged to contend at once 
with the elements and with formidable armies, destitute of food, of 
clothing, of arms, and of ammunition, and yet supplying every w\ant by 
the force of genius ! 

The long route which I have yet to traverse will hardly allow me to 
add a few words relative to the administrative services of the illustrious 
geometer. Appointed French commissioner at the Divan of Cairo, he 
became the ofiticial medium between the general-in-chief and every 
Egyptian who might have to complain of an attack against his person, 
his property, his morals, his habits, or his creed. An invariable suavity 
of manner, a scrupulous regard for prejudices to oppose which directly 
would have been vain, an inflexible sentiment of justice, had given him 
an ascendency over the Mussulman population, which the precepts of 
the Koran could not lead any one to hope for, and which powerfully 
contributed to the maintenance of friendly relations between the inhab- 
itants of Cairo and the French soldiers. Fourier was especially held in 
veneration by the Cheiks and the Ulemas. A single anecdote w ill serve 
to show that this sentiment was the oftspriug of genuine gratitude. 

The Emir Iladgey, or Prince of the Caravan, who had been nominated 
by General Bonaparte upon his arrival in Cairo, escaped during the 
campaign of Syria. There existed strong grounds at the time for sup- 
posing that four Chcils Ulemas had rendered themselves accomplices of 
the treason. Upon his return to Egypt, Bonaparte confided the investi- 
gation of this grave affair to Fourier. "Do not," said he, " submit half- 
measures to me. You have to pronounce judgment upon high person- 
ages: we must either cut off their heads or invite them to dinner." On 
the day following that on which this conversation took place, the four 
Cheiks dined with the general-in-chief. By obeying the inspirations of 
his heart, Fourier did not perform merely an act of humanity ; it was, 
moreover, one of excellent policj\ Our learned colleague, M. Geoffroy 
Saint-Hilaire, to whom I am indebted for this anecdote, has stated in 
fact that Soleyman and Fayoumi, the principal of the Egyptian chiefs, 
whose punishment, thanks to our colleague, was so happily transformed 
into a banquet, seized every occasion of extolling among their country- 
men the generosity of the French. 

Fourier did not display less ability when our generals confided diplo- 
matic missions to him. It is to his tact and urbnnitv that our armv is 



150 JOSEPH FOURIER. 

indebted for an oflensive aud defensive treaty of alliance Avitb Mourad 
Bey. Justly proud of this result, Fourier omitted to make known the 
details of the negotiation. This is deeply to be regretted, for the pleni- 
potentiary of Mourad was a woman, the same Sitty Nefigah whom Kle- 
ber has immortalized by proclaiming lier hcnejicence, her noble character, 
in the bulletin of Heliopolis. and who, moreover, was already celebrated 
from one extremity of Asia to the other, in consequence of the bloody 
revolutions which her unparalleled beauty had excited among the 
Mamelukes. 

The incomparable victory which Kleber gained over the army of the 
Grand Vizier did not damp the energy of the janissaries, who had seized 
upon Cairo while the war was raging at Heliopolis. They defended 
themselves from house to house with heroic courage. The besieged had 
to choose between the entire destruction of the city and an honorable 
capitulation. The latter alternative was adopted. Fourier, charged, 
as usual, with the negotiations, conducted them to a favorable issue ; 
but on this occasion the treaty was not discussed, agreed to, aud signed 
within the mysterious precincts of a harem, upon downy couches, under 
the shade of balmy groves. The preliminary discussions were held in 
a house half ruined by bullets and grape-shot, in the center of the 
quarter of which the insurgents valiantly disputed the possession with 
our soldiers, before even it would have been possible to agree to the 
basis of a treaty of a few hours. Accordingly, when Fourier was pre- 
paring to celebrate the welcome of the Turkish commissioner conform- 
ably to oriental usages, a great number of musket-shots were iired from 
the house in front, and a ball passed through the cofiee-i)ot which he 
was holding in liis band. Without calling in question the bravery of 
any person, do you not think, gentlemen, that if diplomatists were usu- 
ally placed in equally perilous positions, the public would have less rea- 
son to complain of their proverbial slowness 1 

In order to exhibit, under one point of view, the various administrative 
duties of our indefatigable colleague, I should liave to show him to you 
on board the English fleet, at the instant of the capitulation of Menou, 
stipulating for certain guarantees in favor of the members of the Insti- 
tute of Egypt ; but services of no less importance and of a different nature 
demand also our attention. They will even compel us to retrace our 
steps, to ascend even to the epoch of glorious memory when Desaix 
achieved the concjuest of Upper Egypt, as much by the sagacity, the 
moderation, and the inflexible justice of all his acts, as by the rapidity 
and boldness of his military operations. Bonaparte then appointed two 
numerous commissions to proceed to explore in those remote regions a 
multitude of nu)iiuments of which the moderns hardly suspected the 
existence. Fourier and Costas were the commandants of these com- 
missions. I say tlie coiumiuulants, for a sufficiently imposing military 
force had been assigned to them: since it was freipiently after a (rombat 
Aviih the wandeiing triU^s of Arabs that the astronomer found in the 



JOSEPH FOURIER. 151 

movements of the heavenly bodies the elements of a fatnre geographical 
map ; that the naturalist collected unknown plants, determined the 
geological constitution of the soil, occupied himself with troublesome 
dissections; that the anticpiary measured the dimensions of edifices; that 
he attempted to take a faithful sketch of the fantastic images with which 
everything was covered in that singular country, from the smallest 
pieces of furniture, from the simple toys of children, to those prodigious 
palaces, to those immense facades, beside which the vastest of modern 
constructions would hardly attract a look. 

The two learned commissions studied with scrupulous care the mag- 
iiificent temple of the ancient Tentyris, and especially the series of 
iistronomical signs which have excited in our days such lively discus- 
sions; the remarkable monuments of the mysterious and sacred Isle of 
Elephantine; the ruins of Thebes, with her hundred gates, before which 
(and yet they are nothing but ruins) our whole army halted, in a state of 
ivstonishment, to applaud. 

Fourier also presided in Upper Egypt over these memorable works, 
when the commander-in-chief suddenly quitted Alexandria, and returned 
to France with his i)rincipal friends. Those persons then were very 
much mistaken who, upon not finding our colleague on board the frigate 
Muiron, beside Monge and Berthollet, imagined that Bonaparte did not 
appreciate his eminent qualities. If Fourier Avas not a passenger, this 
arose from the circumstance of his having been a hundred leagues from 
the Mediterranean when the Muiron set sail. The explanation contains 
nothing striking, but it is true. In any case, the friendly feeling of 
Kleber toward the secretary of the Institute of Egypt, the influence which 
he justly granted to him on a multitude of delicate occasions, amply 
compensated him for an unjust omission. 

I arrive, gentlemen, at the epoch so suggestive of painful recollec- 
tions, when the Agas of the janissaries, who had fled into Syria, having 
despaired of vanquishing our troops so admirabl}' commanded by the 
honorable arms of the soldier, had recourse to the dagger of the assassin. 
You are aware that a young fanatic, whose imagination had been 
wrought up to a high state of excitement in the mosques by a month of 
prayers and abstinence, aimed a mortal blow at the hero of Heliopolis at 
the instant when he was listening, without suspicion, and with his usual 
kindness, to a recital of pretended grievances, and was promising redress. 

This sad misfortune plunged our colony iiito profound grief. Tbe 
Egyptians themselves mingled their tears with those of the French 
soldiers. By a delicacy of feeling which we should be wrong in sup- 
posing the Mahometans not to be capable of, they did not then omit, 
they have not since omitted, to remark, that the assassin and his three 
accomplices were not born on the banks of the Nile. 

The army, to mitigate its grief, desired that the funeral of Kleber 
should be celebrated with great i)omp. It wished, also, that on that 
solemn day some person should recount the long series of brilliant 



152 JOSEPH FOURIER. 

actions which will transmit the name of the illnstrious general to the 
remotest posterity. By unanimous consent this honorable and perilous 
mission was confided to Fourier. 

There are very few individuals, gentlemen, who have not seen the 
brilliant dreams of their youth wrecked one after the other against the 
sad realities of mature age. Fourier was one of those few exceptions. 

In effect, transport yourselves mentally back to the year 1789, and 
consider what would be the future prospects of the humble convert of St. 
Benoit-sur-Loire. No doubt, a small share of literary glory ; the favor of 
being heard occasionally in the churches of the metropolis; the satis- 
faction of being appointed to eulogize such or such a public personage. 
AVell, nine years have hardly passed and you find him at the head of 
the Institute of Egypt, and he is the oracle, the idol, of a society which 
counted among its members Bonaparte, Berthollet, Monge, Mains, 
Geoflfroy St. Hilaire, Conte, &c. ; and the generals rely upon him for 
overcoming apparently insurmountable difiiculties, and the army of the 
East, itself so rich in adornments of all kinds, would desire no other 
interpreter when it is necessary to recount the lofty deeds of the hero 
which it had just lost. 

It was upon the breach of a bastion which our troops had recently 
taken by assault, in sight of the most majestic of rivers, of the mag- 
nificent valley which it fertilizes, of the frightful desert of Lybia, of the 
colossal pyramids of Gizeh ; it was in presence of twenty populations 
of different origins which Cairo unites together in its vast basin ; in 
presence of the most valiant soldiers that had ever set foot on a land, 
wherein, however, the names of Alexander and of Caesar still resound; 
it was in the midst of everything which could move the heart, excite 
the ideas, or exalt the imagination, that Fourier unfolded the noble 
life of Kleber. The orator was listened to with religious silence ; but 
soon, addressing himself with a gesture of his hand to the soldiers 
ranged in battle-array before him, he exclaims : "Ah, how many of you 
Avould have aspired to the honor of throwing yourselves between Kleber 
and his assassin ! I call you to witness, intrepid cavalry, who rushed 
to save him upon the heights of Koraim, and dispelled in an instant 
the nndtitude of enemies who had surrounded him!" At these words 
an electric tremor thrills throughout the whole army, the colors droop, 
the ranks close, the arms come into collision, a deep sigh escapes from 
some ten thousand breasts torn by the saber and the bullet, and the 
voice of the orator is drowned amid sobs. 

A few mouths after, upon the same bastion, before the same soldiers, 
I'ourier celebrated with no less eloquence the exploirs, the virtues, of 
the general whoni the i^eople conquered in Africa saluted with the name 
so flattering of Just Sultan, and who sacrificed his life at ]Marengo to 
secure the triumph of the French arras. 

Fourier quitted Egypt only with the last wreck of the army, in virtue 
of the capitulation signed by Menou. On hi* return to France the 



JOSEPH FOURIER. 153 

object of Lis most constant solicitude was to illustrate the memorable 
expedition of wliicli he bad been one of the most active and most useful 
members. The idea of collecting together the varied labors of all his 
colleagues incontestably belongs to him. I find the proof of this in a 
letter still unpublished, whicli he wrote to Kleber from Thebes on the 2()th 
Vendemiaire, in the year VII. No public act in which mention is made 
of this great literary monument is of an earlier date. The Institute of 
Cairo having adopted the project of a Worh npon Egypt as early as the 
month of Frimaire, in the year VIII, confided to Fourier the task of 
uniting together the scattered elements of it, of mailing them consistent 
with each other, and drawing up the general introduction. 

This introduction was published under the title of Historical rrcface. 
Fontanes saw in it the graces of Athens and the wisdom of Egyi>t united 
together. "What could I add to such an eulogium ? I shall say only 
that there are to be found there, in a few pages, the principal features 
of the government of the Pharaohs, and the results of the subjection 
of ancient Egypt by the kings of Persia, the Ptolemies, the successors 
of Augustus, the emperors of Byzantium, the first Caliphs, the cele- 
brated Saladin, the Mamelukes, and the Ottoman princes. The different 
phases of our adventurous expedition are there characterized with the 
greatest care. Fourier carries his scruples to so great a lengtli as to 
attempt to prove that it was just. I have said only so far as to attempt, 
for in that case there might have been something to deduct from the 
second part of the eulogium of Fontanes. If, in 1707, our countryman 
experienced at Cairo or at Alexandria outrages and extortions which 
the Grand Seignior either would not or could not repress, one may in all 
rigor admit that France ought to have exacted justice to herself; that 
she had the right to send a powerful army to bring the Turkish custom- 
house officers to reason. But this is far from maintaining that the Divan 
of Constantinople ought to have favored the French expedition ; that 
our conquest was about to restore to him, in some sort, Egypt and Syria; 
that the capture of Alexandria and the battle of the Pyramids tvould 
enliance the luster of the Ottoman name ! However, the public hastened 
to acquit Fourier of what appears hazarded in this small part of his 
beautiful work. The origin of it has been sought for in iiolitical exi- 
gencies. Let us be brief; behind certain sophisms the hand of the orig- 
inal commander-in-chief of the army of the East was suspected to be 
seen ! 

Napoleon then would appear to have participated,by his instructions, 
by his counsels, or, if we choose, by his imperative orders, in the com- 
position of the essay of Fourier. What was not long ago nothing more 
than a plausible conjecture has now become an incontestable fact. 
Thanks to the courtesy of M. Champollion-Figeac, I held in my hands, 
within the last few days, some parts of the first proof-sheets of the his- 
torical preface. These proofs were sent to the Emperor, who wished to 
make himself acquainted with them at leisure before reading them with 



154 JOSEPH FOURIER. 

Fourier. Tbey are covered with marginal notes, and tlie additions wLicli 
they have occasioned amount to almost a third of the original discourse. 
Upon these pages, as in the definitive work given to the. public, one 
remarks a complete absence of proper names; the only exception is 
in the case of the three generals-in-chief. Thus Fourier had imjiosed 
upon liimself the reserve which certain vanities had blamed so severely. 
I shall add that nowhere throughout the precious proof-sheets of M. 
Champollion do we perceive traces of the miserable feelings of jealousy 
which have been attributed to Napoleon. It is true that upon pointing 
out with his finger the word illustrious applied to Kleber, the Emperor 
said to our colleague, " Some one has directed my attention to this 
epithet;" but, after a short pause, he added, "It is desirable that you 
should leave it, for it is just and well deserved." These words, gentle- 
men, honored the monarch still less than they branded with disgrace 
the some one whom I regret not being able to designate in more definite 
terms ; one of those vile courtiers whose whole life is occupied in spying out 
the frailties, the evil passions of their masters, in order to make them 
subservient in conducting themselves to honors and fortune ! 

Fourier had no sooner returned to Europe than he was named (Jan- 
uary 2d, 1802) prefect of the department of I'lsere. The ancient Dau- 
phiny was then a prey to ardent political dissensions. The republicans, 
the partisans of the emigrants, those who had ranged themselves under 
the banners of the consular government, formed so many distinct castes, 
between whom all reconciliation appeared impossible. Well, gentle- 
men, this impossibility Fourier achieved. His first care was to cause 
the Hotel of the Prefecture to be considered as neutral ground, where 
each might show himself without even the appearance of a concession. 
Curiosity alone at first brought the people there, but the people returned ; 
for in France they seldom desert the saloons wherein are to be found a 
polished and benevolent host, witty without being ridiculous, and 
learned without being pedantic. What had been divulged of the opin- 
ions of our colleague, respecting the anti-biblican antiquity of the Egyp- 
tian monuments, inspired the religious classes especially with lively 
apprehensions ; they were very adroitly informed that the new prefect 
counted a saint in his family ; that the blessed Pierre Fourier, who 
established the religious sisters of the Congregation of Xotre-Dame, was 
his grand-uncle, and this circumstance effected a reconciliation which 
the unalterable respect of the first magistrate of Grenoble for all con- 
scientious opinions cemented every day more and more. 

As soon as he was assured of a truce with the political and religious 
parties, Fourier was enabled to devote himself exclusively to the duties 
of his office. These duties did not consist with him in heaping up old 
papers to no advantage. He took personal cognizance of the projects 
which were submitted to him ; he was the indefatigable promoter of all 
those which narrow-minded persons sought to stifle in their birth ; we 
may include in this last class the superb road from Grenoble to Turin 



JOSEPH FOURIER. 155 

by Mount Geuevre, which the events of 1814 have so uiifortuuately 
interrupted, and especially the drainage of the marshes of Bourgoin. 

These marshes, which Louis XIV had given to Marshal Turenne, 
were a focus of infection to the thirty-seven communes, the lands of 
which were partially covered by them. Fourier directed personally 
the topographic operations which established the possibility of drainage. 
With these documents in his hand he went from village to village — I 
might almost say from house to house — to fix the sacrifice which each 
family ought to impose upon itself for the general interest. By tact 
and perseverance, taking " the car of corn always in the right direction,''^ 
thirty-seven municipal councils were induced to contribute to a common 
fund, without which the projected operation would not even have been 
commenced. Success crowned this rare x)erseverance. Eich harvests, 
fat pastures, numerous flocts, a robust and happy population now 
covered an immense territory, where formerly the traveler dared not 
remain more than a few hours. 

One of the predecessors of Fourier, in the situation of per])etual 
secretary of the Academy of Sciences, deemed it his duty, on one 
occasion, to beg an excuse for having given a detailed account of certain 
researches of Leibnitz, which had not required great efforts of the 
intellect: " We ought," says he, ^' to be very much obliged to a mau 
such as he is, when he condescends, for the public good, to do some- 
thing which does not partake of genius !" I cannot conceive the ground 
3f such scruples j in the present day the sciences are regarded fi'om too 
high a point of view, that we should hesitate in placing in the first rank 
of the labors with which they are adorned those which diffuse comfort, 
health, and happiness amidst the working poi)ulation. 

In presence of a part of the Academy of Inscriptions, in an apartment 
wherein the name of hieroglyph has so often resounded, I cannot refrain 
from alluding to the service which Fourier rendered to science by retain- 
ing Champollion. The young professor of history of the faculty of 
letters of Grenoble had just attained the twentieth year of his age. 
Fate calls him to shoulder the musket. Fourier exempts him by investing 
him with the title of pupil of the School of Oriental Languages which he 
had borne at Paris. The minister of war learns that the pupil formerly 
gave in his resignation ; he denounces the fraud, and dispatches a peremp- 
tory order for his departure, which seems even to exclude all idea of 
remonstrance. Fourier, however, is not discouraged ; his intercessions 
are skillful and of a pressing nature; finally, he draws so animated a 
portrait of the ])recocious talent oi his young friend^ that he succeeds in 
wringing from the government an order of S])ecial exemption. It was 
not easy, gentlemen, to obtain such success„ At the same time, a con- 
scri[)t, (I member of our Academy^ succeeded in obtaining a revocation of 
his order for dei)arture only by declaring that he would follow on foot 
in the costume of the Institute the contingent of the arrondissement of 
Paris in whi<;h he was classed. 



15G JOSEPH FOURIER. 

The administrative duties of the prefect of I'lsere hardly interrupted 
the hibors of the geometer aud the man- -of letters. It is from Grenoble 
that the principal writings of Fourier are dated ; it was at Grenoble that 
he composed the Thcorie Mathematique de la Chaleur, which forms his 
principal title to the gratitude of the scientific world. 

I am far from being unconscious of the difficulty of analyzing that 
admirable work, and yet I shall attempt to point out the successive 
steps which he has achieved in the advancement of science. You will 
listen to me, gentlemen, with indulgence, notwithstanding several minute 
details which 1 shall have to recount, since I thereby fulfill the mission 
with which you have honored me. 

The ancients had a taste, let us say rather a passion, for the marvel- 
ous, which caused them to forget even the sacred duties of gratitude. 
Observe them, for example, grouping together the lofty deeds of a great 
number of heroes, whose names they have not even deigned to preserve, 
and investing the single personage of Hercules with them. The lapse 
of ages has not rendered us wiser in this respect. In our own time the 
public delight in blending fable with history. In every career of life, 
in the pursuit of science especially, they enjoy a pkasure in creating 
Herculeses. According to vulgar opinion, there is no astronomical dis- 
covery which is not due to Ilerschel. The theory of the planetary 
movements is identified with the name of Laplace ; hardly is a passing 
allusion made to the eminent labors of D'Alembert, of Clairaut, of Euler, 
of Lagrange. AVatt is the sole inventor of the steam-engine. Chaptal 
has enriched the arts of chemistry with the totality of the fertile and 
ingenious processes which constitute their prosperity. Even within this 
apartment has not an eloquent voice lately asserted that, before Fourier, 
the phenomenon of heat was hardly studied, that the celebrated geom- 
eter had alone made more observations than all his predecessors put 
together 5 that he had with almost a single etfort invented a new science? 

Although he runs the risk of being less lively, the organ of the 
Academy of Sciences cannot permit himself such bursts of entliusiasm. 
He ought to bear in mind that the object of these solemnities is not 
merely to celebrate the discoveries of Academicians ; that they are also 
designed to encourage modest merit; that an observer, forgotten by his 
contemporaries, is frequently supported in his laborious researches by 
the thought that he will obtain a benevolent look from posterity. Let us 
act, so far as it depends upon us, in such a manner that a hope so just, so 
natural, may not be frustrated. Let us award a just, a brilliant homage 
to those rare men whom nature has endowed with the precious privilege 
of arranging a thousand isolated lacts, of making seductive theories 
spring from them ; but let us not forget to state, that the scythe of the 
reaper had cut the stalks before one had thought of uniting them into 
sheaves ! 

Heat presents itself in natural phenomena, and in thidse which are the 
products of art, under two entirely distinct fo|;ms, which Fourier has 



JOSEPH FOURIER. iO < 

separately coui^idered. I sliall adopt the same division, commencing, 
however, with radiant beat the historical analysis wliicli I am about 
to submit to you. 

Nobody doubts that there is a physical distiuctiou which is eminently 
worthy of being studied between the ball of iron at the ordinary temper- 
ature which may be handled at pleasure, and the ball of iron of the same 
dimensions which the flame of a furnace has very much heated, and 
which we cannot touch without burning ourselves. This distinction, 
according to the majority of physical inquirers, arises from a certain 
quantity of an elastic imponderable fluid, or at least a fluid which has 
not beeu weighed, with which the second ball has combined during the 
process of heating. The fluid which upon combining with cold bodies 
renders them hot, has beeu designated by the name of heat or caloric. 

Bodies unequally' heated act upon each other even at great (listanccs, 
even through empty space, for the colder becomes more hot, and the hotter 
becomes more cold; for after a certain time they indicate the same 
degree of the thermometer, whatever may have been the difference of 
their original temperatures. According to the hypotheses above explained, 
there is but one way of conceiving this action at a distance : this is to 
suppose that it operates by the aid of certain efliuvia which traverse 
space by passing from the hot body to the cold body ; that is, to admit 
that a hot bodj^ emits in every direction rays of heat, as luminous bodies 
emit rays of light. 

The efliuvia, the radiating emanations by the aid of which two distant 
bodies form a calorific communication with each other, have been very 
appropriately designated by the name of radiating caloric. 

Whatever may be said to the contrary, radiating heat had already 
been the object of important experiments before Fourier undertook his 
labors. The celebrated Academicians of the Cimento found, nearly two 
centuries ago, that this heat is reflected like light ; that, as in the case 
of light, a concave mirror concentrates it at the focus. Upon substi- 
tuting balls of snow for heated bodies, they even went so far as to prove 
that frigorific foci may be formed b^^ way of reflection. Some years 
afterward Mariotte, a member of this Academy, discovered that there 
exist diftereut kinds of radiating heat ; that th(^, heat with which rays 
of light are accompanied traverses all transparent media as easily as 
light does ; while, again, the caloric which emanates from a strongly 
heated, but opaque substance, as well as the rays of heat which are found 
mingled with the luminous rays of a body moderately incandescent, are 
almost entirely arrested in their passage through the most transparent 
plat<3 of glass! 

This striking discovery, let us remark in passing, will show, notwith- 
standing the ridicule of pretended savants, how happily ius]Mred were 
the workmen in founderies, who looked at the incandescent matter of 
their furnaces only through a plate of ordinary glass, thinking by the 



158 JOSEPH FOURIER. 

aid of this aitifiee to arrest the heat which would have burned their 
eyes. 

In the experimental sciences, the epochs of the most brilliant progress 
are almost always separated hy long intervals of almost absolute repose. 
Thus, after Mariotte, there elai)sed more than a centnry without history 
having to record any new property of radiating heat. Then, in close 
succession, we find in the solar light obscure calorific rays, the existence 
of which could admit of being established only with the thermometer, 
and which may be completely separated from luminous rays by the aid 
of the prism ; we discover, by the aid of terrestrial bodies, that the 
emission of caloric rays, and consequently the cooling of those bodies, 
is considerably retarded by the polish of the surfaces ; that the color, 
the nature, and the thickness of the outer coating of these same sur- 
faces exercise also a manifest influence upon their emissive power. 
Experience, finally, rectifying the vague predictions to which the most 
enlightened minds abandon themselves with so little reserve, shows that 
the calorific rays which emanate from the plane surface of a heated 
body, have not -the same force, the same intensity in all directions; that 
the maximum corresponds to the perpendicular emission, and the min- 
imum to the emissions parallel to the surface. 

Between these two extreme positions, how does the diminution of the 
emissive power operate ? Leslie first sought the solution of this import- 
ant question. His observations seem to show that the intensities of 
the radiating rays are jiroportional (it is necessary, gentlemen, that I 
employ the scientific expression) to the sines of the angles which these 
rays form with the heated surface. But the quantities upon which the 
experimenter had to operate were too feeble ; the uncertainties of the 
thermomctric estimations compared with the total effect were, on the 
contrary, too great not to inspire a strong degree of distrust ; well, gen- 
tlemen, a iiroblem before which all the processes, all the instruments of 
modern physics, have remained jiowerless, Fourier has completely solved 
without the necessity of having recourse to any new experiment. He 
has traced the law of the emission of caloric sought for, with a perspi- 
cuity which one cannot sufficiently admire, in the most ordinary pheno- 
mena of temperature, in the phenomena which at first sight appeared 
to be entirely independent of it. 

Such is the privilege of genius ; it perceives, it seizes relations where 
vulgar eyes see only isolated facts. 

Nobody doubts, and besides experiment has confirmed the fact, that 
in all the points of a space terminated by any envelope maintained at a 
constant temperature, we ought also to experience a constant tempera- 
ture, and precisely that of the envelope. Now, Fourier has established 
that if the calorific rays emitted were equally intense in all directions, 
if the intensity did not vary proportionally to the sine of the angle of 
emission, the temperature of a body situated in the inclosure would 
depend on the place which it would occupy there ; that the temperature 



JOSEPPI FOURIER. 159 

of hoillnr/ icater or of mcltlnfi iron, for example, icould exist in eertain 
points of a hollow envelope of glass ! In all the vast domain of the 
physical sciences we should be unable to find a more striking application 
of the celebrated method of the rediictio ad ahsurdum of which the 
ancient matheuiaticians made use in order to demonstrate the abstract 
truths of geometry. 

I shall not quit this first part of the labors of Fourier without adding, 
that he has not contented himself with demonstrating with so much 
felicity the remarkable law which connects the comparative intensities 
of the calorific rays, emanating under all angles from heated bodies ; he 
has sought, moreover, the jihysical cause of this law, and he has found 
it in a circumstance which his predecessors had entirely neglected. Let 
us suppose, says he, that bodies emit heat not only from the molecules 
of their surfaces, but also from the particles in the interior. Let us 
suppose, moreover, that the heat of these latter particles cannot arrive 
at the surface by traversing a certain thickness of matter without 
undergoing some degree of absori^tion. Fourier has reduced these two 
hypotheses to calculation, and he has hence deduced mathematically the 
experimental law of the sines. After having resisted so radical a test, 
the two hypotheses were found to be completely verified ; they have 
become laws of nature ; they point out latent i)roperties of caloric 
which could only be discerned by the eye of the intellect. 

In the second question treated by Fourier, heat presents itself under 
a new form. There is more difficulty in following its movements; but 
the conclusions deduced from the theory are also more general and more 
important. 

Heat excited, concentrated into a certain iioint of a solid body, com- 
municates itself by way of conduction, first to the particles nearest the 
heated point, then gradually to all the regions of the body. Whence 
the problem of which the following is the enunciation. 

By what routes, and with what velocities, is the propagation of iifeat 
effected in bodies of difierent forms and different natures subjected to 
certain initial conditions ? 

Fundamentally, the Academy of Sciences had already proposed this 
problem as the subject of a prize as early as the year 1736. Then the 
terms heat and caloric were not in use ; it demanded the study of nature^ 
and the propagation of fire ! The word fire, thrown thus into the pro- 
gramme without any other explanation, gave rise to a mistake of the 
most singular kind. The majority of philosophers imagined that the 
question was to explain in what way hurning communicates itself, and 
increases in a mass of combustible matter. Fifteen competitors pre- 
sented themselves ; three were crowned. 

This competition was productive of very meager results. However, a 
singular combination of circumstances and of proper names will render 
the recollection of it lasting. 

Has not the public a right to be surprised a[wu reading this academic 



160 JOSEPH FOURIER. 

declaratiou : " The question affords do handle to geometiy ! " In matter 
of inventions, to attempt to dive into the future is to prepare for one's self 
striking mistakes. One of the competitors, the great Euler, took these 
words in their literal sense: the reveries with which his memoir abounds 
are not compensated in this instance by any of those brilliant discover- 
ies in analysis — I had almost said of those sublime inspirations — which 
Averc so familiar to him. Fortunately Euler appended to his memoir a 
sui>plement truly worthy of his genius. Father Lozeran dc Fiesc and 
the Count of Crequi were rewarded with the high honor of seeing their 
names inscribed beside that of the illustrious geometer, although it 
would be impossible in the present day to discern in their memoirs any 
kind of merit, not even that of politeness, for the courtier said rudely 
to the Academy : " The question which you have raised interests only 
the curiosity of mankind." 

Among the competitors less favorably treated, we preceive one of the 
greatest writers whom France has produced — the author of the Hcnriade. 
The memoir of Voltaire was, no doubt, far from solving the problem 
proposed ; but it was at least distinguished by elegance, clearness, and 
precision of language 5 I shall add, by a severe style of argument ; for 
if the author occasionally arrives at questionable results, it is only when 
he borrows false data from the chemistry and physics of the epoch, — 
sciences which had just sprung into existence. Moreover, the anti- 
Cartesian color of some of the parts of the memoir of Voltaire was cal- 
cidated to find little favor in a society where Cartesianism, with its 
incomprehensible vortices, was everywhere held in hiigh estimation. 

We should have more difticulty in discovering the causes of the failure 
of a fourth competitor, Madame the Marchioness du Chatelet, for she 
also entered into the contiest instituted by the Academy. The work of 
Emilia was not only an elegant portrait of all the in-operties of heat 
known then to physical inquirers ; there were remarked, moreover, in it 
different projects of experiments, among the rest, one Avhich Herschel 
has since developed, and from which he has derived one of the principal 
llowers of his brilliant scientific crown. 

While such great names were occupied in discussing this question, 
physical inquirers of a less ambitious stamp laid experimentally the solid 
basis of a future mathematical theory of heat. Some established that 
the same quantity of caloric does not elevate by the same number of 
degrees equal weights of different substances, and thereby introduced 
into the science the important notion of cajyacity. Others, by the aid of 
observations no less certain, proved that heat, applied at the extremity 
of a bar, is transmitted to the extreme parts with greater or less velocity 
or intensity, according to the nature of the substance of which the bar 
is composed : thus they suggested the original idea of conductiUUiy. The 
same epoch, if I were not precluded from entering into too minute 
details, would present to us interesting exi)erinu'nts. We should find 
that it is not true that, at all degrees of the,thermometer, the loss of 



JOSEPH FOURIER. 161 

heat of a body is proportional to the excess of its temperature above 
that of the medium in which it is phinged ; but I have been desirous of 
showing you geometry penetrating, timidly at lirst, into questions of 
the propagation of heat, and depositing there the first germs of its fer- 
tile methods. 

It is to Lambert, of Mulhouse, that we owe this first step. This inge- 
nious geometer had proposed a very simple problem, which any person 
may comprehend. A slender metallic bar is exposed at one of its ex- 
tremities to the constant action of a certain focus of heat. Tlie parts 
nearest the focus are heated first. Gradually the heat communicates 
itself to the more distant parts, and, after a short time, each point ac- 
quires the maximum temperature which it can ever attain. Although 
the experiment were to last a hundred years, the thermometric state of 
the bar vould not undergo any modification. 

As might be reasonably expected, this maximum of heat is so much 
less considerable as we recede from the focus. Is there any relation 
between the final temperatures and the distances of the different parti- 
cles of the bar from the extremity directly heated ? Such a relation ex- 
ists. It is very simple. Lambert investigated it by calculation, and 
experience confirmed the results of theory. 

In addition to the somewhat elementary question of the lond'itudinal 
propagation of heat, there ofiered itself the more general but much more 
difficult problem of the propagation of heat in a body of three dimen- 
sions terminated by any surface whatever. This problem demanded the 
aid of the higher analysis. . It was Fourier who first assigned the equa- 
tions. It is to Fourier, also, that we owe certain theorems, by means of 
which we may ascend from the difierential equations to the integrals, 
and push the solutions, in the majority of cases, to the final numerical 
applications. 

The first memoir of Fourier on the theory of heat dates from the year 
1807. The Academy, to which it was communicated, being desirous of 
inducing the author to extend and improve his researches, made the 
question of the propagation of heat the subject of the great mathemati- 
cal prize which was to be awarded in the beginning of the year 1812. 
Fourier did, in effect, compete, and his memoir was crowned. But, alas ! 
as Fontenelle said, " in the country even of demonstrations, there are 
to be found causes of dissension." Some restrictions mingled with the 
favorable judgment. The illustrious commissioners of the prize, La- 
place, Lagrange, and Legendre, while acknowledging the novelty and 
importance of the subject, while declaring that the real differential 
equations of the propagation of heat were finally found, asserted that 
they perceived difficulties in the way in which the author arrived at 
them. They added that his processes of integration left something to be 
desired, even on the score of rigor. They did not, however, support 
their opinion by any arguments, 

Fourier never admitted the validity of this decision. Even at the 
11 « 71 



162 JOSEPH FOURIER. 

close of his life lie gave uiiinistakable evidence that he thought it un- 
justj by causiug his me?iioir to be printed in our volumes without chang- 
ing a single word. Still, the doubts expressed by the commissioners of 
the Academy reverted incessantly to his recollection. I^om the very 
beginning they bad poisoned the pleasure of his triumph; These first 
impressions, added to a high susceptibility, explain how^ Fourier ended 
hy regarding with a certain degree of displeasure the efiorts of those 
geometers who endeavored to improve his theory. This, gentlemen, 
was a very strange aberration of a mind of so elevated an order. Our 
colleague had almost forgotten that it is not allotted to any person to 
conduct a scientific question to a definitive termination, and that the 
important labors of D'Alembert, Clairaut, Euler, Lagrange, and La- 
place, while immortalizing their authors, have continually added new 
luster to the imperishable glory of Newton. Let us act so that this ex- 
amjde may not be lost. While the civil law imposes upon the tribunes 
tbe obligation to assign the motives of their judgments, the academies, 
which are the tribunes of science, cannot have even a pretext to escape 
from this obligation. Corporate bodies, as well as individuals, act 
wisely when tliey reckon in every instance only upon the authority of 
reason. 

At any time the "Theorie Mathematique de la Chaleur" would have 
excited a lively interest among men of reflection, since, upon the suppo- 
sition of its being complete, it threw light upon the most minute pro- 
cesses of the arts. In our own time the numerous points of aifinity ex- 
isting between it and the curious discoveries of the geologists have 
made it, if I may use the expression, a work for the occasion. To point 
out the intimate relation which exists between these two kinds of 
researches would be to present the most important part of the discov- 
eries of Fourier, and to show how hapinly our colleague, by one of 
those inspirations reserved for genius, had chosen the subject of his 
researches. 

The parts of the earth's crust which the geologists call the sediment- 
ary formations were not formed all at once. The waters of the ocean, 
on several former occasions, covered regions which are situated in the 
present day in the center of the continent. There they deposited, in 
thin horizontal strata, a series of rocks of different kinds. These rocks, 
although superposed like the layers of stones of a wall, must not be con- 
founded together. Their dissimilarities are palpable to the least prac- 
ticed eye. It is necessary, also, to note this capital fact, that each 
stratum has a well-defined limit; that no process of transition connects 
it with the stratum which it supports. The ocean, the original source 
of all these deposits, underwent then formerly enormous changes in its 
chemical composition, to which it is no longer subject. 

With some rare exceptions, resulting from local convulsions, the effects 
of which are otherwise manifest, the order of antiquity of the successive 
strata of rocks which form the exterior crust of the globe ought to be 



JOSEPH FOURIER. 163 

that of their superposition. The deepest liave been formed at the most 
remote epochs. The attentive study of these different envelopes may 
aid us in ascending the stream of time, even beyond the most remote 
epochs, and eidightening ns with respect to those stupendous revolu- 
tions which iieriodically overwhelmed continents beneath the waters of 
the ocean, or again restored them to their former condition. Crystalline 
rocks of granite upon which the sea has effected its original deposits 
have never exhibited any remains of life. Traces of such are to be found 
only in the sedimentary strata. 

Life appears to have first exhibited itself on the earth in the form of 
vegetables. The remains of vegetables are all that we meet with in the 
most ancient strata deposited by the waters; still they belong t<^ plants 
of the simplest structure — to ferns, to species of rushes, to lycopodes. 

As we ascend into the upper strata, vegetation becomes more and 
more complex. Finally, near the surface, it resembles the vegetation 
actually existing on the earth, with this characteristic circumstance, 
however, which is well deserving attention, that certain vegetables 
which grow only in southern climates — that the large palm-trees, for 
example — are found in their fossil state in all latitudes, and even in the 
center of the frozen regions of Siberia. 

In the primitive world, these northern regions enjoyed then, in winter, 
a temperature at least equal to that which is experienced in the present 
day under the parallels where the great palms commence to appear ; at 
Tobolsk, the inhabitants enjoyed the climate of Alicante or Algiers. 

We shall deduce new proof's of this mysterious result from an atten- 
tive examination of the size of plants. 

There exist, in the present day, willow-grass or marshy rushes, ferns, 
and lycopodes, in Europe as well as in the tropical regions; but they 
are not met with in large dimensions, except in warm countries. Thus, 
to compare together the dimensions of the same plants is, in reality, to 
compare, in respect to temperature, the regions where they are i)ro- 
duced. Well, place beside the fossil plants of our coal mines, I will not 
say the analogous plants of Europe, but those which grow in the coun- 
tries of South America, and which are most celebrated for the richness 
of their vegetation, and you will find the former to be of incomparably 
greater dimensions than the latter. 

The fossil flora of France, England, Germany, and Scandinavia offer, 
for example, ferns ninety feet high, the stalks being six feet in diameter 
or eighteen feet in circumference. 

The licopodes which, in the present day, whether in cold or temperate 
climates, are creeping-plants, rising hardly to the height of a decimeter 
above the soil; which, even at the equator, under the most favorable 
circumstances, do not attain a height of more than one meter, had in 
Europe, in the primitive world, an altitude of twenty-five meters. 
One must be, blind to all reason not to find in these enormous dimen- 



164 iOSEPH FOURIER. 

sioiis a new proof of the high temperature enjoyed by our country before 
the last irruptions of the ocean. 

The study of fossil animals is no less fertile in results. I should digress 
from my subject if I were to examine here how the organization of 
animals is developed upon the earth; what modifications, or more 
strictly speaking, what complications it has undergone after each cata- 
clysm, or if I even stopped to describe one of those ancient epochs 
during which the earth, the sea, and the atmosphere had for inhabitants 
cold-blooded reptiles of enormous dimensions; tortoises, with shells three 
feet in diameter; lizards seventeen meters long; pterodactyles, veritable 
flying dragons of such strange forms that they might be classed on 
good grounds either among reptiles, among mammiferous animals, or 
among birds. The object which I have proposed does not require that 
I should enter into such details ; a single remark will suffice. 

Among the bones contained in the strata nearest the present surface 
of the earth are those of the hippopotamus, the rhinoceros, and the 
elephant. These remains of animals of warm countries are to be found 
in all latitudes. Travelers have discovered specimens of them even at 
Melville Island, where the temperature descends, in the present day, 
50° beneath zero. In Siberia they are found in such abundance as 
to have become an article of commerce. Finally, upon the rocky 
shores of the Arctic Ocean, there are to be found not merely fragments 
of skeletons, but whole elephants still covered with their flesh and skin. 

I should <leceive myself very much, gentlemen, if I were to suppose 
that each of you had not deduced from these remarkable facts a conclu- 
sion no less remarkable, to which, indeed, the fossil flora had already 
habituated us ; namely, that as they have grown older the polar regions 
of the earth have cooled down to a j)rodigious extent. 

In the explansition of so curious a phenomenon, cosmologists have not 
taken into account the existence of i)ossible variations of the intensity 
of the solar heat ; and yet the stars, those distant suns, have not the 
constant brightness which the common people attribute to them. Nay, 
some of them have been observed to diminish in a sufficiently short 
space of time to the hundredth part of their original brightness ; and 
several have even totally disappeared. They have preferred to attrib- 
ute everytliing to an internal or primitive heat with which the earth 
was at some former epoch impregnated, and which is gradually being 
dissipated in space. 

Upon this hypothesis the inhabitants of the polar regions, although 
deprived of the sight of the sun for whole months together, must have 
evidently enjoyed, at very ancient epochs, a temperature equal to that 
of the tropical regions, wherein exist elephants in the present day. 

It is not, however, as an explanation of the existence of elephants in 
Siberia that the idea of the intrinsic heat of the globe has entered for 
the first time into science. Some savants had adopted it before the dis- 
covery of those fossil animals. Thus, Descaiites was of opinion that 



JOSEPH FOURIER. 165 

origiually (I cite his own words) the earth did not differ from the sun in 
any other respect than in being smaller. Upon this hyi)othesis, then, it 
ought to be considered as an extinct sun. 

Leibnitz conferred upon this hypothesis the honor of appropriating it 
to himself. He attempted to deduce from it the mode of formation of 
the different solid envelopes of which the earth consists. Buffon, also, 
imijarted to it the weight of his eloquent authority. According to that 
great naturalist, the planets of our system are merely portions of the 
sun, which the shock of a comet had detached from it some tens of thou- 
sands of years ago. 

In support of this igneous origin of the earth, Mairan and Bufibu 
cited already the high temperature of deep mines, and, among others, 
those of the mines of Giromagny. It appears evident that if the earth 
was formerly incandescent, we should not fail to meet in the interior 
strata — that is to say, in those which ought to have cooled last — traces 
of their primitive temperature. The observer who, ui)on penetrating 
into the interior of the earth, did notlind an increasing heat, might then 
consider himself amply authorized to reject the hyi)othetical conceptions 
of Descartes, of Mairan, of Leibnitz, and of Bufibn. But has the con- 
verse jiroposition the same certainty ? Would not the torrents of heat, 
which the suu has continued incessantly to launch for so many ages, 
have diffused themselves into the mass of the earth, so as to produce 
there a temperature increasing with the depth f This is a question of 
high importance. Certain easily satisfied minds conscientiously sup- 
posed that they had solved it, when they stated that the idea of a con- 
stant temperature was by far the most natural; but woe to the sciences 
if they thus included vague considerations, which escape all criticism, 
among the motives for admitting and rejecting facts and theories ! Fon- 
tenelle, gentlemen, would have traced their horoscope in these words, 
so well adapted for humbling our pride, and the truth of which the his- 
tory of discoveries reveals in a thousand places: "When a thing may 
be in two different ways, it is almost always that which appears at first ' 
the least natural." 

Whatever importance these reflections may possess, I hasten to add 
that, instead of the arguments of his predecessors, which have no real 
value, Fourier has substituted proofs, demonstrations; and we know 
what meaning such terms convey to the Academy of Sciences. 

In all places of the earth, as soon as we descend to a certain depth, 
the thermometer no longer experiences either diurnal or annual varia- 
tion. It marks the same degree, and the same fraction of a degree, from 
day to day, and from year to year. Such is the fact: what says theory!? 

Let us suppose, for a moment, that the earth has constantly received 
all its heat from the sun. Descend into its mass to a sufficient depth, 
and you will find, with Fourier, by the aid of calculation, a constant 
temperature for each day of the year. You will recognize further, that 
this solar temperature of the inferior strata varies from one climate to 



16G JOSEPH FOURIER. 

another; tliiit in each country, finally, it ought to be always the same, 
so long as we do not descend to depths which are too great relatively 
to the earth's radius. 

Well, the phenomena of nature stand in manifest contradiction to this 
result. The observations made iu a multitude of mines, observations 
of the temperature of hot springs coming from difierent depths, have 
all given an increase of one degree of the centigrade for every twenty 
or thirty meters of depth. Thus, there was some inaccuracy in the hy- 
pothesis which we were discussing ujjon the footsteps of our colleague. 
It is not true that the temperature of the terrestrial strata may be 
attributed solely to the action of the solar rays. 

This being established, the increase of heat which is observed in all 
climates when we penetrate into the interior of the globe is the mani- 
fest indication of an intrinsic heat. The earth, as Descartes and Leib- 
nitz maintained it to be, but without being able to support their asser- 
tions by any demonstrative reasoning, — thanks to a combination of the 
observations of physical inquirers with the analytical calculations of 
Fourier, — is an uicrusted sun, the high temperature of which may be 
boldly invoked every time that the explanation of ancient geological 
phenomena will require it. 

After having established tliat tlun-e is iu our earth an inherent heat — 
a heat the source of which is not the sun, and whicli, if we may judge 
of it by the rapid increase which observation indicates, ought to be 
already sufticiently intense at the depth of only seven or eight leagues 
to hold in fusiou all known substances— there arises the question, what 
is its precise value at the surface of the earth ; Avhat weight are we t^ 
attach to it in the determination of terrestrial temperatures ; what part 
does it i)lay in the phenomena of life 1 

According to INIairan, Buftbn, and Bailly, this part is immense. For 
France, they estimate the heat which escapes from the interior of the 
, earth at twenty-nine times in summer, and four hundred times in winter, 
the heat which comes to us from the sun. Thus, contrary to general 
opinion, the heat of the body whicli illuminates us would form only a 
very snuiU part of that whose proi)itious inlluence we feel. 

This idea was developed with ability and great eloquence iu the 
Memoirs of the Academy, in the Epoqnes snr la Xaiure of Buffon, in the 
letters from Badly to Voltaire njwn the Origin of the Sciences and upon the 
Atlantide. But the ingenious romance to which it has served as a base 
has vanished like a shadow before the torch of mathematical science. 

Fourier having discovered that the excess of tlu? aggregate temper- 
ature of the earth's surface above that which would result from the sole 
action of the solar rays has a determinate relation to the increase of 
temperature at ditferent depths, succeeded in deducing from the exper- 
imental value of this increase a numerical determination of the excess 
in question. This excess is tlie thermometric effect which the solar heat 
produces at the surface. Now, instead of the large numbers adopted by 



JOvSEPH FOURIEE. 167 

Marian, Bailly, and Buifon, what lias our colleague found? A thirtieth 
of a degree ; not more. 

The surface of the eartb, which originally was perhaps incandescent, 
has cooled then in the course of ages so as hardly to preserve any 
sensible trace of its primitive heat. However, at great depths, the 
original heat is still enormous. Time will alter sensibly the internal 
temperature ; but at the surface (and the phenomena of the surface can 
aloiie modify or compromise the existence of living beings) all the 
changes are almost accomplished. The frightful freezing of the earth, 
the epoch of which Bulfon fixed at the instant when the central heat 
would be totally dissipated, is then a pure dream. At the surface, the 
earth is no longer impregnated except by the solar heat. So long as 
the sun shall continue to preserve the same brigiitness, mankind will 
find, from j^ole to pole, under each latitude, the climates which have 
permitted them to live and to establish their residence. These, gentle- 
men, are great, magnificent results. While recording them in the annals 
of science, historians will not neglect to draw attention to this singular 
j)eculiarity — that the geometer, to whom we owe the first certain demon- 
stration of the existence of a heat independent of a solar influence in 
the interior of the earth, has annihilated the immense part which this 
l^rimitive heat was made to play in the explanation of the phenomena 
of terrestial temperature. 

Besides divesting the theory of climates of an error which occupied a 
prominent place in science, sujiported as it was by the imposing authority 
of JMarian, of Bailly, and of Buflbn, Fourier is entitled to the merit of 
a still more striking achievement ; he has introduced into this theory 
a consideration which hitherto had been totally neglected; he has 
pointed out the influence exercised by the temperature of the celestial 
regions, amid which the earth describes its immense orb around the sun. 

When we perceive, even under the equator, certain mountains covered 
with eternal snow, upon observing the rapid diminution of temperature 
which the strata of the atmosphere undergo during ascents in balloons, 
meteorologists have supposed that, in the regions wherein the extreme 
rarity of the air will always exclude the presence of mankind, and that 
especially beyond the limits of the atmosphere, there ought to prevail a 
prodigious intensity of cold. It ^^'as not merely by hundreds, it was by 
thousands of degrees, that they had arbitrarily measured it. But, as 
usual, the imagination {cettefolie de la maison) had exceeded all reason- 
able limits. The hundreds, the tens of thousands of degrees, have 
dwindled down, after the rigorous researches of Fourier, to fifty or six;ty 
degrees onlj-. Fifty to sixty degrees hcncath zero, such is the temper- 
ature which the radiation of heat from the stars has established in the 
regions furrowed indefinitely by the planets of our system. 

You recollect, gentlemen, with what delight Fourier used to converse 
upon this subject. You know well that he thought himself sure of 
having assigned the temperature of space within eight or ten degrees. 



168 JOSEPH FOURIER. 

By what fatality has it happenetl that the memoir, wherein, no doubt, 
our colleague had recorded all the elements of that important determi- 
nation, is not to be found ? May that irreparable loss prove at least to 
so many observers that, instead of pursuing obstinately an ideal perfec- 
tion, which it is not allotted to man to attain, they will act wisely in 
j)lacing- the public, as soon as possible, in the confidence of their labors? 

I should have yet a long course to iiursue if, after having pointed out 
some of those problems of which the condition of science enabled ^our 
learned colleague to give numerical solutions, I were to analyze all those 
which, still enveloped in general formula?, await merely the data of 
experience to assume a place among the most curious acquisitions of 
jnodern i^hysics. Time, which is not at mj' disposal, precludes me 
from dwelling upon such developments. I should be guilty, however, 
of an unpardonable omission if I did not state that, among the formulae 
of Fourier, there is one which serves to assign the value of the secular 
cooling of the earth, and in which there is involved the number of cen- 
turies which have elapsed since the origin of this cooling. The question 
of the antiquity of the earth, including even the period of incandescence, 
which has been so keenly discussed, is thus reduced to a thermometric 
determination. Unfortunately- this point of theory is subject to serious 
difficulties. Besides, the thermometric determination, in consequence 
of its excessive smallness, must be reserved for future ages. 

I have just exhibited to you the scientific fruits of the leisure hours 
of the prefect of I'Isere. Fourier still occupied this situation when 
Napoleon arrived at Cannes. His conduct during this grave conjuncture 
has been the object of a hundred false rumors. 1 shall then discharge 
a duty by establishing the facts in all their truth, according to what I 
have heard from our colleague's own mouth. 

Upon the news of the Emperor having disembarked, the principal 
authorities of Grenoble assembled at the residence of the prefect. 
There each individual explained ably, but especially, said Fourier, with 
much detail, the difficulties which he perceived. As regards the means 
of vanquishing them, the authorities seemed to be much less inventive. 
Confidence in administrative eloquence was not yet worn out at that 
epoch; it was resolved accordingly to have recourse to proclamations. 
The commanding officer and the prefect presented each a project. The 
assembly was discussing minutely the terms of them, when an ofiicer of 
the gensdannes, an old soldier of the imi)erial armies, exclaimed rudely, 
" Gentlemen, be quick, otherwise all deliberation will become useless. 
Believe me, I speak from experience ; Napoleon always follows very 
closely the couriers who announce his arrival." Napoleon was in fact 
close at hand. After a short moment of hesitation, two companies of 
sappers, which had been dispatched to cut down a bridge, joined their 
former commander. A battalion of infantry soon followed their example. 
Finally, upon the very glacis of the fortress, in presence of the numerous 
population which crowned the ramparts, the fif^i regiment of the line to 



JOSEPH FOURIER. 169 

a man assumed the tricolor cockade, substituted for tbe white flag; the 
eai^le — witness of twenty battles — which it had preserved, and departed 
with shouts of Vive VEmpereur ! After such a commencement, to 
attempt to hold the country would have been an act of folly. General 
Marchand caused accordingly the gates of the city to be shut. lie still 
hoped, notwithstanding the evidently hostile disposition of the inhab- 
itants, to sustain a siege with the sole assistance of the third regiment 
of engineers, the fourth regiment of artillery, and some weak detach- 
ments of infantry which had not abandoned him. 

From that moment, the civil authority had disappeared. Fourier 
thought then that he might quit Grenoble, and repair to Lyons, where 
the princes had assembled together. At the second restoration, this 
departure was imputed to him as a crime. He was very near being 
brought before a court of assizes, or even a provost's court. Certain 
personages pretended that the presence of the prefect of the chief place 
of risere might have conjured the storm ; that the resistance might have 
been more animated, better arranged. People forgot that nowhere, and 
at Grenoble even less than anywhere else, was it possil)le to organize 
even a pretext of resistance. Let us see then, finally, how this martial 
city — the fall of which Fourier might have prevented by his mere pres- 
ence — let us see how it was taken. * It is eight o'clock in the evening. 
The inhabitants and the soldiers garrison the ramparts. Napoleon pre- 
cedes his little troop by some steps 5 he advances even to the gate; he 
knocks, (be not alarmed, gentlemen, it is not a battle which I am about 
to describe,) he Icnoclcs with his snuff-box ! " Who is there ? " cried the officer 
of the guard. " It is the Emperor ! Open!" " Sire, my duty forbids 
me." " Open, I tell you ; I have no time to lose." " But, sire, even 
thougli I should open to you, I could not. The keys are in the posses- 
sion of General Marchand." "Go, then, and fetch them." " I am cer- 
tain that he will refuse them to me." "If the general refuse them, tell 
Mm that I icill dismiss him.'''' 

These words petrified the soldiers. During the previous two days, 
hundreds of proclamations designated Bonaparte as a wild beast which 
it was necessary to seize without scruple ; they ordered everybody to run 
away from him, and yet this man threatened the general with depriva- 
tion of his command ! The single Avord dismissal effaced the faint line of 
demarkation which separated for an instant the old soldiers from the 
young recruits ; one word established the whole garrison in the interest 
of the Emperor. 

The circumstances of the capture of Grenoble were not yet known 
when Fourier arrived at Lyons. He brought thither the news of the 
rapid advance of Xapoleon ; that of the revolt of two com])anies of saj »pers, 
of a regiment of infantry, and of the regiment commanded by Labe- 
doyere. Moreover, he was a witness of the lively sympathy which the 
country people along the whole route displayed in favor of the pro- 
scribed exile of Elba. 



170 JOSEPH FOURIER. 

The Count d'Artois gave a very cold reception to the prefect and his 
comniiinications. He declared that the arrival of Napoleon at Grenoble 
was impossible ; that no alarm need be apprehended respecting the dis- 
position of the country people. "As regards the facts," said he to 
Fourier, " which would seem to have occurred in your presence at the 
very gates of the city, with respect to the tricolored cockades substi- 
tuted for thecocl^ade of Henry IV, with respect to the eagles wbich you 
say have replaced the white Hag, I do not suspect your good faith, but 
the uneasy state of your mind must have dazzled your eyes. Prefect, 
return then without delay to Grenoble ; you will answer for the city 
with your head." 

You see, gentlemen, after having so long proclaimed the necessity of 
telling the truth to princes, moralists will act wisely by inviting princes 
to be good enough to listen to its language. 

Fourier obeyed the order which had just been given him. The wheels 
of his carriage had made only a few revolutions in the direction of 
Grenoble, when he was arrested by hussars and conducted to the head- 
quarters at Bourgoin. The Emperor, who was engaged in examining a 
large chart with a pair of compasses, said upon seeing him enter, " Well, 
prefect, you also have declared war against mef "Sire, my oath of 
allegiance made it my duty to do so !" "A duty you say? and do you 
not see that in Dauphiny nobody is of the same mind ? Do not imagine, 
however, that your plan of the campaign will frighten me much. It 
only grieved me to see among my enemies an JEf/yption, a man who had 
eaten along with me the bread of the bivouac, an old friend!" 

It is painful to add that to those kind words succeeded these also : 
" How, moreover, could you have forgotten, Monsieur Fourier, that I 
have made you what you are ? " 

You will regret with me, gentlemen, that a timidity, which circum- 
stances would otherwise easily explain, should have prevented our col- 
league from at once emphatically protesting against this confusion, 
which the powerful of the earth are constantly endeavoring to estab- 
lish between the perishable bounties of which they are the dispensers 
and the noble fruits of thought. Fourier was prefect and baron by the 
favor of the Emperor ; he was one of the glories of France by his own 
genius. 

On the 9th of March, Napoleon, in a moment of anger, ordered Four- 
ier, by a mandate, dated from Grenoble, to quit the territory of tJie sev- 
enth miUtary division within Jive days, under jxnn of being arrested and 
treated as an enemy of the country ! On the following day our colleague 
departed from the conference of Bourgoin, with the appointment of pre- 
fect of the Rhone and the title of count, for tha Emperor after his retui-n 
from Elba was again at his old practices. 

These unexpected proofs of favor and confidence afforded little pleas- 
ure to our colleague, but he dared not refuse them, although he per- 



JOSEPH FOURIER. 171 

ceivod very distinctly the iininense grjivity of the events in which he 
was k'd by tlie vicissitude of I'ortune to pkiy a part. 

"What do you thiulv of my enterprise ?" said the Emperor to liim on 
the day of his departure from Lyons. " Sire," replied Fourier, " I am 
of opinion that you will foil. Let but a fanatic meet you on your way, 
and all is at an end." "Bah !" exclaimed Xapoleon, " the Bourbons 
have nobody on their side, not even a fanatic. In connection with this 
circMmstance, you have read in the. Journals that they have excluded 
me from the protection of the law. I shall be more indulgent on my 
part ; I shall content myself with excluding them from the Tuileries." 

Fourier held the appointment of prefect of the Rhone only till the 
1st of May. It has beeu alleged that he was recalled, because he refused 
to be accessory to the deeds of terrorism which the minister of the hun- 
dred days enjoined him to execute. The Academy will always be 
pleased when I collect together and place on record actions which, 
while honoring its members, throw new luster around the entire body. 
I even feel that in such a case I may be disposed to be somewhat cred- 
ulous. On the present occasion, it was imperatively ue(;essary to insti- 
tute a most rigorous examination. If Fourier honored himself by 
refusing to obey certain orders, what are we to think of the minister of 
the interior from whom those orders emanated? Xow, this minister, it 
must not be forgotten, was also an Academician, illustrious by his mil- 
itary services, distingnisked by kis matkematical works, esteemed and 
ckerisked by all his colleagues. Well, I declare, gentlemen, witli a sat 
isfactiou wkick you will all skare, tkat a most scru[)ulous investigation 
of all tke acts of tke kundred days kas not disclosed a trace of any- 
tking wkick migkt detract from tke feelings of admiration witk wkick 
tke memory of Carnot is associated in your minds. 

Upon quitting tke prefecture of tke Ilkoue, Fourier repaired to Paris. 
Tke Emperor, wlio was tken upon tke eve of setting out to Join tke 
army, perceiving kim amid tke crowd at tke Tuileries, accosted kim in 
a friendly manner, informed kim tkat Carnot would explain to kim wky 
his displacement at Lyons had become indispensable, and promised to 
attend to his interest as soon as military affairs would allow him some 
leisure time. The second restoration found Fourier in the cai)ital with- 
out employment, and Justly anxious w'ith respect to the future. He, 
who, during a period of fifteen years, administered the affairs of a great 
department; who directed works of such an expensive nature; who, in 
the affair of tke nuirskes of Bourgoin, kad to contract engagements for 
so many millions, witk private individuals, witk tke communes, and witk 
public companies, kad not twenty thousand francs in kis possession. Tkis 
honorable ])Overty, as well as tke recollection of glorious and important 
services, was little calculated to nndce an impression upon ministers inku- 
enced by political iiassion, and subject to tke capricious interference of 
foreigners. A demand for a pension was accordingly repelled witk 
rudeness. Be reassured, kow'ever, Frauce will not kave to blush for 



172 JOSEPH FOUKIER. 

having left iu poverty one of lier ])rincipal ornaments. The prefect of 
Paris — I have committed a mistake, gentlemen; a proper name will not 
be out of place here — M. Chabrol, learns that his old professor at the 
Polytechnic School, that the perpetual secretary of the Institute of 
Egypt, that the author of the Theorie Analytique de la Chaleur, was 
reduced, in order to obtain the means of living, to give private lessons 
at the residences of his pupils. The idea of this revolts him. He ac- 
cordingly shows himself deaf to the clamors of party, and Fourier 
receives from him the superior direction of the Bureau de la Statistique 
of the Seine, with a salary of 0,000 francs. It has appeared to me, 
gentlemen, that I ought not to suppress these details. Science may show 
herself grateful toward all those who give her support and i)rotection, 
when there is some danger in doing so, without fearing that the burden 
should ever become too heavy. 

Fourier responded worthily to the confidence reposed in him by M. de 
Chabrol. The memoirs with which he enriched the interesting volumes 
published by the prefecture of the Seine, will serve henceforth as a guide 
to all those who have the good sense to see in statistics something else 
than an indigestible mass of figures and tables. 

The Academy of Sciences seized the first occasion which offered itself 
to attach Fourier to its interests. On the 27th of May, ISIG, he was 
nominated a free Academician. This election was not confirmed. The 
solicitations and influence of the Dauphin, whom circumstances detained 
at Paris, had almost disarmed the authorities, when a courtier exclaimed 
that an amnesty was to be granted to the civil Lahedoyere !* This 
^ord — for during many ages past the poor human race has been gov- 
erned by words — decided the fate of our colleague. Thanks to political 
intrigue, tlie ministers of Louis XVIII decided that one of the most 
learned men of France should not belong to the Academy ; that a citizen 
who enjoyed the friendship of all the mOvSt distinguished persons in the 
metropolis should be publicly stricken with disapprobation! 

In our country the reign of absurdity does not last long. Accordingly 
in 1817, when the Academy, without being discouraged by the ill success 
of its first attempt, unanimously nominated Fourier to the place which 
had just been vacant in the section of physics, the royal confirmation 
was accorded M'ithout difficulty. I ought to add that soon afterward 
the ruling authorities, whose repugnances were entirely dissipated, 
frankly and unreservedly ai)plauded the happy choice which you made 
of the learned geometer to replace ])elambre as per])etual secretary. 
They even went so far as to offer him the directorship of the fine arts ; but 
our colleague had the good sense to refuse the api)<)intnient. 

Ul>on the death of Lemontey, the French Academy, where Laplace 
and Cuvier already represented the sciences, called also Fourier into its 
bosom. The literary titles of the most eloquent of the writers connected 

* Iu alliisiontothejni7i?fln/ traitor, Colouol Lab6doy&rc, who -was conclemned to dcatli 
for espousing the cause of Napoleon. — Translatok. 



JOSEPH FOURIER. 173 

■with the work ori Egfypt were incontestable ; they even were not con- 
tested, and still this nomination excited violent discussions in the jour- 
nals, which profoundly grieved our colleague. And yet, after all, was it 
not a fit subject for discussion, whether these double nominations are 
of any real utility ! Might it not be maintained, without incurring the 
reproach of paradox, that it extinguishes in youth an emulation which 
we are bound by every consideration to encourage? Besides, with 
double, triple, and quadruple Academicians, what would eventually 
become of tbe justly boasted unity of the Institute ? Without insisting 
further on these remarks, the justness of w^hicli you will admit if I mis- 
take not, I hasten to repeat that the academic titles of Fourier did not 
form even the subject of a doubt. The applause which was lavished 
upon the eloquent elogcs of Delambre, of Breguet, of Charles, and of 
Herschel, would sutficiently evince that, if their author had not been 
already one of the most distinguished members of the Academy of Sci- 
ences, the ijublic would have invited him to assume a place among the 
judges of French literature. 

Kestored at length, after so many vicissitudes, to his favorite pursuits, 
Fourier i>assed the last years of his life in retirement and in the dis- 
charge of academic duties. To converse had become the half of his ex- 
istence. Those who have been disposed to consider this the subject of 
just reproach have, no doubt, forgotten that constant reflection is no 
less imperiously forbidden to man than the abuse of jihysical jiowers. 
Eepose, in everything, recruits our frail machine ; but, gentlemen, he 
who desires repose may not obtain it. Interrogate your own recollec- 
tions and say if, when you are pursuing a new truth, a walk, the in- 
tercourse of society, or even sleep, have the privilege of distracting you 
from the objects of your thoughts ? The extremely shattered state of 
Fourier's health enjoined the most careful attention. After many attempts, 
he found only one means of escaping from the contentions of mind which 
exhausted him : this consisted in speaking aloud upon the events of his 
life; upon his scientific labors, which were either in course of being 
planned, or which were already terminated ; upon the acts of injustice 
of which he had reason to complain. livery person must have remarked 
how insignificant was the state which our gifted colleague assigned to 
those who were in the habit of conversing with him; we are now ac- 
quainted with the cause of this. 

Fourier had preserved, in old age, the grace, the urbanity, the varied 
knowledge which, a quarter of a century previously, had imi»arted so 
great a charm to his lectures at the Polytechnic School. There was a 
l)leasure in hearing him relate the anecdote which the listener already ' 
knew by heart, even the events in which the individual had taken a 
direct part. I happened to be a witness of the kind oi fascination which 
he exercised upon his audience, in connection with an incident which 
deserves to be known, for it will prove that the word which I have just 
employed is not in any wise exaggerated. 



174 JOSEPH FOURIER. 

We found ourselves seated at the same table. Tlie guest from whom 
I separated him was an old officer. Our colleague was informed of this, 
and the question "Have you been in Egypt?" served as a commence- 
ment of a conversation between them. The reply was in the affirmative. 
Fourier hastened to add : "As regards myself, I remained in that mag- 
nificent country until the period of its complete evacuation. Although 
foreign to the profession of arms, I have, in the midst of our soldiers, 
fired against the insurgents of Cairo; I have had the honor of hearing 
the cannon of Heliopolis." Hence to give an account of the battle was 
but a step. This step was soon made, and we were presented with four 
battalions drawn up in squares in the plain of Quoubbeh, and maneuver- 
ing, with admirable precision, conformably to the orders of the illustrious 
geometer. My neighbor, with attentive ear, with immovable eyes, and 
with outstretched neck, listened to this recital with the liveliest inter- 
est. He did not lose a single syllable of it ; one would hare sworn that 
he had for the first time heard of those memorable events. Gentlemen, 
it is so delightful a task to please ! After having remarked the effect 
which he produced, Fourier reverted, with still greater detail, to the 
principal fight of those great days : to the capture of the fortified vil- 
lage of Mattaryeh, to the passage of two feeble columns of French 
grenadiers across ditches heajied up with the dead and wounded of the 
Ottoman army. " Generals, ancient and modern, have sometimes spoken 
of similar deeds of prowess," exclaimed our colleague, "but it was in 
the hyperbolic style of the bulletin ; here the fact is materially true — 
it is true like geometry. I feel conscious, however," added he, " that 
in order to induce you to believe it, all my assurances will not be more 
than sufficient." 

" Do not be anxious upon this point," replied the officer, who at that 
moment seemed to awaken from a long dream. " In case of necessity, 
I might guarantee the accuracy of your statement. It was I who, at 
the head of the grenadiers of the 13th and 85th semi-brigades, forced 
the entrenchments of Mattaryeh, by passing over the dead bodies of 
the janissaries." 

My neighbor was General Tarayre. You may imagine much better 
than I can express, the effect of the few words which had just escaped 
from him. Fourier made a thousand excuses, while I reflected upon 
the seductive influence, ui)on the power of language, which for more 
than half an hour had robbed the celebrated general even of the recol- 
lection of the part which he had played in the battle of giants he was 
listening to. 

The more our secretary had occasion to converse the greater repug- 
nance he experienced to verbal discussions. Fourier cut short every 
debate as soon as there presented itself a somewhat marlced difference 
of opinion, only to resunu' afterward the same subject upon tlie modest 
pretext of making a small step in advance each time. Some one asked 
Fontaine, a celebrated geometer of this Academy, how he occupied his 



JOSEPH FOURIER. 175 

thoughts iu society, wherein he maintained an ahnost ahsohite silence. 
'■' I observe," he replied, " the vanity of mankind, to wound it as occa- 
sion offers." If, like his predecessor, Fourier also studied the baser pas- 
sions which contend for honors, riches, and power, it was not in order 
to engage in hostilities with them ; resolved never to compromise matters 
with them, he yet so calculated his movements beforehand as not to 
find himself in their way. We perceive a wide difference between this 
disposition and the ardent, impetuous character of the young orator of the 
popular society of Auxerre. But what purpose would philosophy serve, 
if it did not teach us to conquer our passions ? It is not that occasion- 
ally the natural disposition of Fourier did not display itself in full relief. 
"It is strange," said one day a certain very influential r>ersonage of the 
court of Charles X, whom Fourier's servant would not allow to pass 
beyond the antechamber of our colleague, " it is truly strange that 
your master should be more difficult of access than a minister!" Fou- 
rier heard the conversation, leaped out of his bed to which he was con- 
fined by indisposition, opened the door of the chamber, and exclaimed, 
face to face with the courtier, " Joseph, tell Monsieur, that if I was 
minister, I should receive everybody, because it would be my duty to do 
so ; but being a private individual, I receive whomsoever I please, and 
at what hour soever I please I" ]>isconcerted by the liveliness of the 
retort, the great seignior did not utter one word in reply. AVe must 
even believe that from that moment he resolved not to visit any but 
ministers, for the plain man of science heard nothing more of him. 

Fourier was endowed with a constitution which held forth a promise 
of long life ; but what can natural advantages avail against the anti- 
hygienic habits which men arbitrarily acquire? In order to guard 
against slight attacks of rheumatism, our colleague was in the habit of 
clothing himself, even in the hottest season of the year, after a fashion 
which is not practiced even by travelers condemned to spend the winter 
amid the snows of the polar regions. " One would suppose me to be 
corpulent," he used to say occasionally with a smilo; '' be assured, how- 
ever, that there is much to deduct from this opinion. If, after the 
example of the Egyptian nuimmies, I was subjected to the operation of 
disembowelment, — from which heaven preserve me, — the residue w^ould 
be found to be a very slender body." I might add, sele(;ting also my 
comparison from the banks of the Nile, that in the apartments of Fou- 
rier, which were always of small extent and intensely heated, even in 
summer, the currents of air to which one was exposed resembled some- 
times the terrible simoon, that burning wind of the desert, which the 
caravans dread as much as the plague. 

The prescriptions of medicine which, in the mouth of M. Larrey, were 
blended with the anxieties of a long and constant friendslii[), failed to 
induce a modificaticm of this mortal regime. Fourier had already expe- 
rienced, in Egyi)t and Grenoble, some attacks of aneurism of the heart. 
At Paris it was impossible to be mistaken with respect to the primary 



176 JOSEPH FOURIER. 

cause of the frequent suffocations -which he experienced. A fall, how- 
ever, which he sustained on the 4th of May, 1830, while descending a 
flight of stairs, aggravated the malady to an extent beyond what could 
hav« been ever feared. Our colleague, noth withstanding pressing sol- 
icitations, persisted in refusing to combat the most threatening symp- 
toms, except by the aid of patience and a high temperature. On the 
16th of May, 1830, about four o'clock in the evening, Fourier experienced 
in his study a violent crisis, the serious nature of which he was far from 
being sensible of; for, having thrown himself completely dressed upon 
his bed, he requested M. Petit, a young doctor of his acquaintance, who 
carefully attended him, not to go far away, in order, said he, that we 
may presently converse together. But to these words succeeded soon 
the cries, " Quick, quick, some vinegar ; I am fainting ! " and one 
of the men of science, who has shed the brightest luster upon the Aca- 
demy, had ceased to live. 

Gentlemen, this cruel event is too recent that I should recall here the 
grief which the Institute experienced upon losing one of its most 
important members ; and those obsequies, on the occasion of which so 
many persons, usually divided by interests and opinions, united together 
in one common feeling of admiration and regret, around the mortal 
remains of Fourier; and the Polytechnic School swelling in a mass the 
cortege, in order to render homage to one of its earliest, of its most 
celebrated professors ; and ^he words which on the brink of the tomb 
depicted so eloquently the profound mathematician, the elegant writer, 
the upright administrator, the good citizen, the devoted friend. We 
shall merely state that Fourier belonged to all the great learned societies 
of the world, that they united with the most touching unanimity in the 
mourning of the Academy, in the mourning of all France : a striking 
testimony that the republic of letters is no longer, in the present day, 
merely a vain name. What, then, was wanting to the memory of our 
colleague 1 A more able successor than I have been, to exhibit in full 
relief the difterent phases of a life so varied, so laborious, so gloriously 
interlaced with the greatest events of the most memorable epochs of 
our history. Fortunately, the scientific discoveries of the illustrious 
secretary had nothing to dread from the incompetency of the panegy- 
rist. My object will have been completely attained if, notwithstanding 
the imperfection of my sketches, each of you will have learned that the 
progress of general physics, of terrestrial physics, and of geology will 
daily multiply the fertile applications of the Theoric Anahjtiqiie de la 
Chaleur^ and that this work will transmit the name of Fourier down to 
the remotest posterity. 



ON PROFESSOR THOMAS GRAHAM'S SCIENTIFIC WORK.* 



By Wiloam Odling, M.B., F.R. S., 

FuUcrian Professor of Chemistry, li. I. 



The simple story of Mr. Graliaiii's life, tliougli not without its measure 
of interest, and certainly not without its lessons, is referred to in the 
following pages only in illustration of the grander story of his work. 
Thomas Graham was born in Glasgow, on the 21st December, 1805. He 
entered as a student at the University of Glasgow, in 1819, with a view 
to becoming ultimately a minister of the Established Church of Scot- 
land. At that time the university chair of chemistry was filled by Dr. 
Thomas Thomson, a man of very considerable mark, and one of the 
most erudite and thoughtful chemists of his day. The chair of natural 
philosophy was also tilled by a man of much learning. Dr. Meikleham, 
who ai)pears to have taken a warm j)ersonal interest in the progress of 
his since distinguished pupil. Under these masters, Mr. Graham ac- 
quired a strong liking for experimental science, and a dislike to the 
profession chosen for him by his father; who, for a time at least, seems 
to have exerted the authority of a parent somewhat harshly, but quite 
unavailingiy, to eftect the fultillment of his own earnest wishes in the 
matter. 

After taking his degree of master of arts at Glasgow, in 182(3, Mr. 
Graham worked for nearly two years in the laboratory of the University 
of Edinburgh, under Dr. noi)e. He then returned to Glasgow ; and, 
while supporting himself by teaching, at first mathematics and after- 
ward chemistry, yet found time to follow up the path of experimental 
inquiry, on which he had already entered. 

His tlrst original paper appeared in the Annals of Philosophy for 
1820, its author being- at that time in his twenty-lirst year. It is inter- 
esting to not(? that the subject of this communication, " On the absorp- 
tion of gases by liquids," forms part and parcel of that large subject of 
spontaneous gas-movement with which Mr. Graham's name is now so 
inseparably associated ; and that, in a paper communicated to the IJoyal 
Society just forty years later, he si>eaks of the licpiehability of gases by 
chemical means, in language almost identical with that used in this ear- 
liest of his published memoirs. 

Having, in the interval, contributed several other i)apers to the scien- 
tific journals, in the year 1829 he published in the Quarterly Journal 
of Science — the journal, that is to say, of the lioyal Institution — the 
first of his papers relating specifically to the subject of gas-diffusion. It 

* From the proceediuirs of the Eoval Institution, Loudon. 
12 s 71 



178 PEOFESSOR THOMAS GRAHAm's SCIENTIFIC WORK. 

was entitled "A short account of experimental researches on the diffu- 
sion of gases through each other, and their separation by mechanical 
means." In the same year, he became lecturer on chemistry at the 
Mechanics' Institute, Glasgow ; and in the next year, 1830, achieved 
the yet more decisive step of being appointed professor of chemistry at 
the Andersonian University. By this appointment he was relieved from 
anxiety on the score of living, and afforded, in a modest way, the means 
of carrying out his experimentnl work. 

In 1831 he read, before the Royal Society of Edinburgh, a paper " On 
the law of the diffusion of gases," for which the Keith prize of the society 
was shortly afterward awarded him. Although several of his earlier 
papers, and especially that " On the diffusion of gases," j)ublished in 
the Quarterly Journal of Science, had given evidence of considerable 
power, it was this paper — in which he established the now well-recog- 
nized law that the velocities of diffusion of different gases are inversely 
as the square roots of their specitic gravities — that constituted the first 
of what may properly be considered his great contributions to the 
progress of chemical science. 

In 1833 he communicated a paper of scarcely less importance, to the 
Eoyal Society of London, entitled " Researches on the arseniates, phos- 
phates, and modifications of pliosphoric acid." It afforded further evi- 
dence of Mr. Graham's quiet, steady power of investigating phenomena, 
and of his skill in interpreting results ; or rather of his skill in setting 
fortli the results in all their simplicity, undistorted by the gloss of 
preconceived notions, so as to make them render up their own in- 
terpretation. It is difficult nowadays to realize the independence of 
mind involved in Mr. Graham's simple interpretation of the facts 
j)resented to him in this research, by the light of the facts themselves, 
irrespective of all traditional modes of viewing them. Their investiga,- 
tion let in a flood of liglit upon the chemistry of that day, and formed 
a starting-point from which many of our most recent advances may be 
directly traced. In this paper, Mr. Graham established the existence 
of two new, and, at that time, wholly unanticipated classes of bodies, 
namely, the class of polybasic acids and salts, and the class of so-called 
auhydro acids and salts. The views of Graham on the polybasicnty of 
phosphoric acid were soon afterward applied by Liebig to tartaric 
acid, and by Gerhardt to polybasic acids in general, as we now recog- 
nize them. After a long interval, the idea of polybasicity was next ex- 
tended to radicals and to metals by Williamson and myself successively; 
afterward to alcohols by Wurtz, and to ammonias by Hofnmnn. The 
notion of anhydro-salts was extended by myself to the different classes 
of silicates ; by Wurtz to the comi)c)unds intermediate between oxide of 
ethylene and glycol ; and by other chemists to many different series of 
organic bodies. 

The next most important of the researches comj)leted by Mr. Gra- 
ham while at Glasgow was the subject of a pamper communicated to the 



PEOFESSOR THOMAS GRAIIAm's SCIENTIFIC WORK. 179 

Eoyal Society of Edinburgii, in 1835, " On water as a constituent of 
salts," and of a second paper communicated to the Eoyal Society of 
London, in 1830, entitled "Inquiries respectiugthe constitution of salts, 
&c.," for which latter a royal medal of the society was afterward 
awarded. The subject of hydration had yielded him such a harvest of 
results in. the case of phosphoric acid, that it was only natural he should 
wish to pursue the inquiry further. Indeed, it is a curious illustration 
of the persistency of the luan that he never seems to have left out of 
sight the subjects of his early labors. Almost all his subsequent 
original work is but a development, in different directions, of his youth- 
ful researches on gas-diffusion and water of hydration; and so com- 
pletely did he bridge over the space intervening between these widely 
remote subjects, that, with regard to several of his later investigations, 
it is diilicult to say whether they are most directly traceable to his primi- 
tive work on the one subject or on the otber. 

In 1837, on the death of Dr. Edward Turner, Mr. Graham was ap- 
pointed professor of chemistry at University College, London, then 
called the University of London. On his acceptance of this appoint- 
ment he began the publication of his well-known Elements of Chem- 
istry, which appeared in parts, at irregular intervals, between 1837 and 
1811. Elementary works, written for the use of students, have neces- 
sarily mucli in common ; but the treatise of Mr. Graham, while giving 
an admirably digested account of the most important individual sub- 
stances, was specially distinguished by the character of the introductory 
chapters, devoted to cbemical physics, wherein was set forth one of 
the most original and masterly statements of the first principles of chem- 
istry that has ever been placed before the English student. " The 
theory of the voltaic circle" had formed the subject of a paper com- 
municated by Mr. Graham to the British Association in 1839 ; and the 
account of the working of the battery, given in his Elements of Cbem- 
istry, and based on the above paper, will long be regarded as a model of 
lucid scientific exposition. 

In 1811 the now flourishing Chemical Society of London was founded ; 
and though Mr. Graham had been, at that time, but four years in Lon- 
don, such was the estimation in which he was held by his brother chem- 
ists, that he was unanimously- chosen as the first president of the society. 
The year 1844 is noticeable in another way. Wollaston and Davy had 
been dead for some years. Faraday's attention had been diverted from 
chemistry to those other branches of experimental inquiry in which his 
highest distinctions were achieved ; and, by the death of Dalton in this 
year, Mr. Graham was left as the acknowledged first of English chem- 
ists, as the not unworthy successor to the position of Black, Priestley, 
Cavendish, Wollaston, Davy, and Dalton. 

From the period of his api)ointment at University College, in 1837, , 
Mr. Graham's time was fully occupied in teaching, in writing, in advising 
ou chemical manufactures, in investigating fiscal and other questions for 



180 PROFESSOR THOMAS GRAHAM's SCIENl.FIC WORK. 

the Government, and in tbe publication of various scientific nieft-Oirs, 
several of tbeui possessing a higli degree of interest; but it was not till 
1846 that he produced a research of any considerable magnitude. In 
that year he presented to the Royal Society the first part of a paper 
" On the motion of gases," the second part of which he supplied in 1849. 
For this research Mr. Graham was awarded a second royal medal of 
the society in 1850. The preliminary portion of the first part of the 
paper related to an experimental demonstration of the law of the effu- 
sion of gases, deduced from Torricelli's theorem on the efflux of liquids 
— a demonstration that was achieved by Mr. Graham with much inge- 
nuity, and without his encountering any formidable difficulty. But the 
greater portion of the first part, and whole of the second part, of this 
most laborious paper were devoted to an investigation of the velocities 
of transpiration of different gases through capillary tubes, with a view 
to discover some general law by which their observed transpiration rates 
might be associated with one another. Again and again, with charac- 
teristic pertinacity, Mr. Graham returned to the investigation ; but, 
although much valuable information of an entirely novel character was 
acquired — information having an important bearing on his subsequent 
work — the problem itself remained, and yet remains, unsolved. Why, 
for exam[)le, under an equal pressure, oxygen gas should pass through a 
capillary tube at a slower rate than any other gas is a matter that still 
awaits interpretation. 

Near the end of the same year, 1849, Mr, Graham communi(!ated, also 
to the Koyal Society, a second less laborious, but in the nov<*lty an<l 
interest of its results more successful, paper ''On the diffusion of 
liquids,'* It was made the Bakerian lecture for 1850, and was supple- 
mented by further observations communicated to the society in 1850 and 
1851. In his investigation of this subject, Mr. Graham ai)plied to liquids 
the exact method of imjuiry whi(;h he had applied to gases just twenty 
years before, in that earliest of his papers on the snbjcctof gas-diffnsion 
published in the Quarterly Journal of Science ; and be succeeded iu 
placing the subject of liquid-diffusion on about the same footing as that 
to which lie had raised the subject of gas diffusion prior to the discovery 
of his numerical law. 

In 1854 Mr. Graham communicated another paper to the Eoyal 
Society, " On osmotic force," a subject intimately connected with th.it 
of his last i)revious communication. This paper was also made the 
Bakeriau lecture for the year; but, altogether, the conclusions arrived 
at were hardlj' in proportion to the very great labor expended on the 
inquiry. In the next year, 1855, just five-and-twenty years after his ap- 
pointment at the Andersonian University, Mr. Graham was made nmster 
of the mint; and, as a consequence, resigned his professorship at Uni- 
versity College. During the next five years he i)ublished no original 
work. 

Thus, at the beginning of the year 18G1, Mi; Graham, then fifty-six 



PEOFESSOR THOMAS GRAHAm's SCIENTIFIC WORK. 181 

years of age, bad produced, in addition to many less iiaportaiit eom- 
niimicatioiis, iive principal memoirs ; three of them in the highest degree 
successfnl ; the other two less successful in })roi»ortion to the expendi- 
ture of time and labor on them, but, nevertheless, of great originality 
and value. The most brilliant period, however, of his scientific career 
was to come. In the year ISGl, and between then and his death in 18G9, 
Mr. Graham communicated four elaborate papers to the Royal Society, 
three of them far exceeding in novelty, interest, and ])hik)so-phic [)0wer 
anything that he had before produced ; and the other of them, relating 
to a certain physical effect of that hydration of compounds, from the 
consideration of which his attention could never wholly be withdrawn. 
This least important paper, "On liquid transpiration in relation to 
chemical composition," was communicated to the lioyal Society in 1861. 
Of the three greater papers, that " On li(piid <litfusion api)lied to anal- 
ysis" was communicated also in 18G1. For this paper moie especially, 
as well as for his Lakerian lectures "On the diffusion of liquids" and 
"On osmotic force," Mr. Grahain received, in 1802, the Co[»ley medal 
of the Royal Society; and, in the same year, was also awarded the 
Jecker prize of the Institute of France. Following in quick succession, 
his paper "On the molecular mobility of gases" was i)resented to the 
Royal Society in 18G3 ; and that "On the absorption and dialytic 
separation of gases by colloid septa," in 18G<). With regard to these 
three great papers, two of them were each supplemented by a communi- 
cation to the Chemical Society ; while the third was supplemented by 
four successive notes to tbe Royal Society, containing an account of 
further discoveries on the same subject, hardly less remarkable than 
those recorded in the original paper. The last of these supplementary 
notes was communicated on June 10, 18G1>, but a few months before the 
death, on September lo, of the indefatigable but physically broken- 
down man. 

In considering Mr. Graham as a chemical philosopher and lawgiver, 
we find him characterized by a pertinacity of purpose peculiarly his 
own. Wanting the more striking qualities by wliich his immediate pre- 
decessors, Davy, Dalton, and Faraday, were severally distinguished, he 
displayed a positive zeal for tedious quantitative work, and a wonder- 
ful keen-sightedness in seizing the points which his innumeralde deter- 
minations of various kinds, conducted almost incessantly for a period of 
forty years, successively uniblded. His work itself was essentially that 
of detail, original in conception, simple in execution, laborious by its 
quantity, and brilliant in the marvelous results to which it led. As 
regards its simplicity of execution, scarcely any investigator of recent 
times has been less a friend to the instrument-nuiker than jMr. (Jraham. 
W^hile availing himself, with much advantage, of appliances devised by 
Bunsen, Poiseuille, Sprengel, and others, all the ap[)aratus introduced 
by himself was of the simplest character, and for the most part of labor- 
atory construction. 



182 PROFESSOR THOMAS GRAHAM's SCIENTIFIC WORK. 

Essentially iuductive in his mode of thought, Mr. Graham developed 
his leading ideas, one after another, directly from exjieriment, scarcely, 
ifat all, from the prevailing ideas of the time. As well observed by 
Dr. Angus Smith, " he seemed to feel his way by his work." His records 
of work are usuall}', in a manner almost characteristic, i^receded each by 
a statement of the interpretation or conclusion which he formed ; but 
the records themselves are expressed in the most unbiased matter-of- 
fact language. Singularly cautious in drawing his conclusions, he 
announces them from the first with boldness, making no attempt to con- 
vince, but leaving the reader to adopt them or not as he pleases. 
Accordingly, in giving an account of his various researches, Mr. Gra- 
ham rarely, if ever, deals with argument ; but he states succinctly the 
experiments he has made, the conclusions he has himself drawn, and 
not unfrequently the almost daring speculations and generalizations ou 
which he has ventured. Some of these sj)eculations, on the constitution 
of matter, are reproduced in his own words further on. 

Mr. Graham was elected a fellow of the Eoyal Society in 1837 ; cor- 
responding member of the Institute of France in 1847 ; and doctor of 
civil law of Oxford in 1855. 

The remaining pages of this abstract are devoted to an account of his 
principal discoveries — the generalizations they suggested to him, and 
the relations in which they stood to precedent knowledge. 

I. 

Modifications of pliosplioric acid. — At the date of Mr. Graham's inves- 
tigation of this subject, when oxy-salts were usually represented as com- 
pounds of anhydrous base with anhydrous acid, the point of greatest 
importance, with regard to each class of salts, was held to be the ratio 
borne by the oxygen of the base to the oxygen of the acid. Thus, in 
the carbonates, this ratio was as 1 to 2 ; in the sulphates, as 1 to 3; and 
in the nitrates, as 1 to 5. But with regard to the i)hosphates, taking- 
common i)hosphate of soda as a type of phosphates in general, there 
was a difliculty. Dr. Thomson maintained that, in this salt, the ratio 
of the oxygen of the base to the oxygen of the acid was as 1 to 2; and 
his view was substantially supported by Sir Humphrey Davy. Berzelius 
contended, however, that the ratio was as 1 to 2i, or, to avoid the use 
of fractions, as 2 to 5; but, notwithstanding the excellence of the 
Swedish chemist's proof, and its corroboration by the researches of 
others, the simpler and, as it seemed, more harmonious view of Dr. 
Thomson prevailed very generally in this country. Anyhow, those 
l)liosphates in which the oxygen ratio was the same as that in phosphate 
of soda were taken as the neutral salts. But phosphate of soda was 
found to have the peculiar and quite inexplicable property of reacting 
with nitrate of silver to throw down, as a yellow precii)itate, a ])hosphate 
of silver, in which the proportion of metallic base exceeded that in the 
original phosi^hate of soda — the precipitation «f the basic salt being 



PKOFESSOE THOMAS GRAHAm's SCIENTIFIC WORK. 183 

accompanied correlatively by the forination of a strongly acid liquid 
According- to Berzelins, the ratio of the oxygen of the base to that of 
the acid, in this yellow ])recii)itate, was as 3 to 5. 

In ISlil Mitscherlich, then working in Berzelius's laboratory, obtained, 
by treating ordinar^^ phosphate of soda with aqueous phosphoric acid, 
a new crystallizable phosphate of soda, in which the ratio of acid to 
base was twice as great as that in the ordinary phosphate. This new 
salt, which had a strongly acid reaction to test paper, he called the bi- 
phos[)hate of soda. He observed that it was a hydrated salt, and that 
while the ratio in it of the oxygen of the base to the oxygen of the acid, 
was as 1 to 5, the ratio of the oxygen of the base to the oxygen of the 
water was 1 to 2. 

In ]827 Mr. Graham's fellow-townsman, and predecessor at the Me-, 
chanics' Institute, Dr. Clark, discovered another new phosphate of soda, 
in which the ratio of the oxygen of the base to the oxygen of the acid 
was identical with that in the ordinary phosphate, namely, as 2 to 5. 
But whereas the or<linary phosphate crystallized with 25 proportions of 
water, the new phosphate crystallized with only 10; and whereas the 
ordinary phosphate gave a yellow precipitate with nitrate of silver and 
a strongly acid supernatant liquid, the new i)hosphate gave a chalk- 
white precipitate with nitrate of silver and a perfectly neutral superna- 
tant liquid. This new phosphate, being formed by heatnig the common 
phosphate to redness, was accordingly designated the pyroi)hos})hate. 
By dissolution in water and evaporation of the liquid, it could be ob- 
tained in the lOhydrated crystalline state; and by desiccation at a 
sand-bath heat, the crystalline salt could be again rendered anhydrous. 
With regard to the 25 proportions of water belonging to the ordinary 
salt, Dr. Clark noti(5ed that 24 proportions could be driven oft" by a sand- 
bath heat, and that this moderate heat did not alter the nature of the 
salt. He found that the 25th proportion of water, however, could only 
be driven oft by a full red heat ; and that, simultaneously with its ex- 
pulsion, the change in the nature of the salt was effected. But he care- 
fully guarded himself against being supposed to think that the change 
in properties of the salt was consequent upon an elimination of its 
water. The driving off of water from salts being, as he justly remarked, 
a common effect of heat, he regarded this effect as a concomitant only 
of the peculiar effect of heat in altering the nature of the phosphate. 

Other anomalies with regard to phosphoric acid and the phosphates 
were also known to chemists; and, on referring now to standard chem- 
ical works written before the year 1S33, the whole subject of the phos- 
phates will be seen to be in the greatest confusion. It was in this year 
that Mr. Graham communicated his paper, entitled " Researches on the 
arseniates, phosphates, and modifications of phosphoric acid," to the 
Royal Society.* 

In the course of these researches he established the existence of a 

* Philosophical Transactions, 1833, p. Ji53. 



184 PROFESSOR THOMAS GRAHAM'S SCIENTIFIC WORK. 

class of soluble sub-phosphates analogous to the yellow insoluble phos- 
phate of silver ; and he showed, with g^eat clearness, that in the three 
classes of phosphates, namely, the sub-phosphates, the common phos- 
phates, and the bi-phosphates, the ratio borne to the oxygen of the acid 
by the other oxygen of the salt is the same, namely, as 3 to 5 5 only that, 
in the three classes of salts, the non-acid oxygen is divided between 
different proportions of metallic base and water, thus : 

Sub-phospbate of soda BNaO.POs. 

Coimnon pbospliate o'f soda H . 2 Na . P O 5. 

Bi-phosphate of soda 2HO.NaO.P06. 

He further pointed out that, to these three series of salts, there cor- 
responded a definite phosphate of water, or, 

Hy dialed phosphoric acid 3 H O . P O .-,■ 

Compounds of one and the same anhydrous acid with one and the 
same auliydrous base, in different proportions, had long been known ; 
but it was thus that Mr. Graham first established the notion of poly- 
basic compounds — the notion of a class of hydrated acids having more 
than one proportion of water replaceable by metallic oxide, and that 
successively, so as to furnish more and more basic salts, all preserving, 
as we should now say, the same type. 

Mr. Graham further showed that Dr. Clark's pyrophosphate of soda, 
like the common phosphate, yielded an acid-salt or bi-phosphate; and 
that these two compounds were related to a hydrated phosphoric acid 
differing in con)i)osition and properties from the above-mentioned hy- 
drate, and yielding, after neutralization with alkali, a white instead of 
a yellow prexjipitate with nitrate of silver. This series of compounds 
he expressed by the following formuhe: 

Claik's pyrophosphate of soda 2 Na O . P O5. 

Acid or bi-pyropliosphate of soda HO.NaO. PO5. 

Hydrated pyrophosphoric acid 2H0. POg. 

Lastly, Mr. Graham showed that when the bi-phosphate or bi-pyro- 
])hosphate of soda was ignited, tbere was left a new variety of phos- 
phate, which he called the metaphosphate, having the same proportions 
of soda and anhydrous phosphoric acid as the original compound, but 
differing Irom it in several properties, more parti(,'ularly in its inability 
to furnish any acid salt. From this new i)hosphate he obtained the cor- 
responding hydrated acid, and found it to be identical witli that variety 
of phosphoric acid then, and still, known as glacial phosphoric acid, 
which had previously been noticed to possess the distiuctive property 
of causing a precii>itate in solutions of albumen. This salt and acid 
he represented as follows : 

Metaphosphate of soda NaO.POs. 

Metaphosphoric acid - - H O . P 05. 

Speaking of the acid obtainable from, and by its neutralization recon- 
verted into, the phosphate, pyrophosphate, and metaphosphate of soda 
respectively, Mr. Graham remarked : "The acid, when separated from the 



PROFESSOR THOMAS GRAHAm'S SCIENTIFIC WORK. 185 

base, will possess and retain for sometime the cliaracters of its peculiar 
moditication. * * * But I suspecttliat the modifications of phosphoric 
acid, when in what we would call a free state, are still in combination with 
their usual proportion of base, and that that base is water. Thus the 
three modifications of phosphoric evidence may be composed as follows : 

Phosphoric acid iH H O . P O 5. 

Pyrophos]ihoi'ic acid ., 2 H O . P 5- 

Metaphosphoiic acid- H O . P O 5.; 

or they are respectively a tri-phosphate, abi-phosphate, and jdiosphate 
of water." These remarks he followed up by analytical evidence, show- 
ing the existence of the three hydrates, each in its isolated state. 

Just as in his demonstration of the relationship to one another of 
sub-phosphate of soda, phosphate of soda, bi-phosphate of soda, and 
common i)hosphoric acid, Mr. Graham originated the notion of polybasic 
compounds, so, in his demonstration of the nature of the pyrophosphates 
and metaphosphates, as bodies difteiing from the normal compounds 
by an abstraction of water or metallic base, did he originate the notion 
of anhydro-compounds — so did he discover, for the first time, an in- 
stance of that relationship between bodies which is now known to pre- 
vail most extensively among products of organic as well as of mineral 
origin. 

The different proi>erties manifested by phosphoric acid, in its differ- 
ent reputedly isomeric states, having been shown by Mr. Graham to be 
dependent on a difference of hydration; that is to say, on a difference 
of chemical composition, he was inclined to view the difference of prop- 
erties observed in the case of other reputedly isomeric bodies as being 
also dependent on a difference of composition, the difference occasionally 
consisting in the presence of some minute disregarded impurity. Accord- 
ingly he communicated to the Eoyal Society of Edinburgh in 1834* a 
paper " On phosphureted hydrogen," in which he showed that the spon- 
taneously inflammable and non-spontaneously inflammable varieties of 
the gas " are not isomeric bodies, but that the peculiarities of the spon- 
taneously inflammable species depend upon the presence of adventitious 
matter," removable in various ways, and existing but in very minute 
l^roportion.t He further showed that the vapor of some acid of nitro- 
gen, apparently " nitrons acid, is capable of rendering phosphureted 
hydrogen spontaneously inflannnable when present to the extent of one 
ten-thousandth part of the volume of the gas." In connection with this 
research may be mentioned Mr. Graham's earlier experiments on the 
influence of minute impurities in modifying the chemical behavior of 
different substances. In some " Observations on the oxidation of phos- 
phorus," published in the Quarterly Journal of fScience,| for 1829, he 
showed that the presence of ^i^ of olefiant gas, and even j^^, by vol- 

* Edinbnr<>h Royal Society Transactions, xiii, 183G, \). 88. 
t It was afterward isolated by P. Tlienard. 
i Quarterly Journal Science, ii, 1829, p. 83. 



186 PEOFESSOR THOMAS GRAHAM's SCIENTIFIC WORK. 

ume, of turpeiitiue vapor, iu air under ordinary pressure, rendered it 
incapable of effecting tlie slow oxidation of phosphorus. He also ob- 
served and recorded the influence upon the oxidation of phosphorus of 
various additions of gas and vapor to air, under different circumstances 
of pressure and temperature. 

II. 

Hydration of compounds.— In the earliest of Mr. Graham's published 
memoirs, that '• On the absorption of gases by liquids,"* he contended 
that the dissolution of gases in water, at any rate of the more soluble 
gases, is a chemical phenomenon, depending on their essential property 
of liquefiability being brought into play by their reaction with the sol- 
vent, that is to say by their hydration. The results of some further 
work on the same subject he published under the title of " Experiments 
on the absorption of vapors by liquids." t 

In 1827 he gave to the Eoy.al Society of Edinburgh "An account of the 
formation of alcoholates, definite compounds of salts and alcohol analo- 
gous to the hydrates."! In this paper, after a description of some ex- 
periments on the desiccation of alcohol, he showed that anhydrous 
chloride of caicium, nitrate of lime, nitrate of magnesia, chloride of zinc, 
and chloride of manganese have the property of uniting with alcohol, as 
with water, to form definite compounds. The crystalline compound with 
choride of zinc, for instance, containing 15 per cent, of alcohol, he rep- 
resented by the formula Zn CI . 2 C2H3O; corresponding to the modern 
formula Zn Cl2.2C2HeO. 

In 1835 Mr. Graham communicated a paper, also to the Eoyal Society 
of Edinburgh, " On water as a constituent of salts." § In this paper he 
showed more particularly that the so-called magnesian suli)hates, crys- 
tallizing usually with 7, 6, or 5 proportions of water, gave up all but the 
last proportion of water at a moderate heat, but retained this last propor- 
tion with, great tenacity. The comparatively stable mono-hy drated salts, 
mono-hydrated sulphate of zinc, for instance, Zn O . S O3. U O, he re- 
garded as the analogues of crystallizable sulphuric acid II O . S O3 . H O. 
lie showed further that the firndy retained water of sulphate of zinc, 
for instance, differed from the firmly retained water of phosphate of 
soda, in not being basic, or replaceable, that is to say, by metallic oxide. 
He conceived, however, that in the double sulphates, potassio-sulphate 
of zinc, for instance, Zn O . S O 3, K O . S O 3, the water of the compound, 
ZnO. SO3.H O, was replaced by alkali-sulphate, and he accordingly 
designated the water of this last, and of similar compounds, by the name 
of saline or constitutional water. 

In the following year, 1836, Mr. Graham communicated to the Koyal 

* Thomson, Annals of Philosoiiby, xii, 1826, p. 69. 

t Edinburgh Journal of Science, viii, 1828, p. 326. 

t Edinburgh Royal Society Transactions, xi, 1837, p. 175. 

^S Ibid., xiii, 1836, p. 297. 



PROFESSOE THOMAS GEAHAm's SCIENTIFIC WORK. 187 

Society of Loudon an elaborate paper, entitled " Inquiries respecting- tbe 
constitution of salts, of oxalates, nitrates, phosphates, sulphates, and 
chlorides."* In it are recorded careful aualyses of very many salts, 
more particularly in respect to their water of hydration ; with remarks 
upon the greater or less tenacity with which the water is retained in 
different instances. In this paper he put forward the notion that truly 
basic salts are nevertheless neutral in constitution ; and that the excess 
of metallic base does not stand in the relation of a base to the anhy- 
drous acid, but as a representative of the water of hydration of the 
neutral salt. He illustrated this position by a comparison of the defi- 
nite hydrate of nitric acid with other hydrated nitrates, thus: 

Hydrated uitric acid, sp. gr. 1.42 HO. N O r, . :? H O. 

Hydrated uitrato of zinc Zn 0.N0f,.3 HO. 

Hydrated nitrate of copper : Cu . N O 5 . 3 H 0. 

Basic nitrate of copper HO. NOs.^CuO. 

He contended that, in the last cupric salt, it is the water and not the 
oxide of copper which acts as a base ; and, in supi)ort of this view, he 
remarked that if the water of the salt Avere water of hydration simply, 
it ought, in presence of so large an excess of metallic base, to be very 
readily expelled by heat ; whereas it is actually inexpulsable by any 
heat whatever, short of that effecting an entire decomposition of the 
salt. Again, he pointed out that when the strongest nitric acid HO.NO5 
is added, in no matter what excess, to oxide of copper, the basic salt is 
alone produced, apparently b^^ a direct addition of the oxide of copper 
to the nitrate of water. 

In 1841 Mr. Graham gave to the Chemical Society "An account of 
experiments ou the heat disengaged in co!nbiuation." t These experi- 
ments included numerous determinations of the heat evolved in the 
hydration of salts, and more particularly of the sulphates, including 
sulphate of water, or hydrated sulphuric acid. Starting from oil of 
vitriol H O. S O 3, he found that each successive addition of a proportion 
of water HO, evolved an additional, but successively smaller and smaller 
increment of heat; and that, even after the addition of fifty propor- 
tions of water to the acid, the further addition of w ater was yet followed 
by a perceptible development of heat. 

The relation of ether to alcohol being regarded as that of an oxide to 
its hydrate, and expressed by the formulae C4H5O, and C4H5O.HO, 
the conversion of alcohol into ether became a matter of dehydration ; 
and, accordingly, could not escape the examination of Mr. Graham, 
who, in 1850, presented to the Chemical Society some "Observations ou 
etheriticatiou."! The process of manufacture consisting in the distil- 
lation of a mixture of alcohol with sulphuric acid, and being attended 
by an intermediate produetion of sulphate of ether or sul[)hethylic acid, 
the substitution of ether for the basic water of suli)huric acid at one 

' * Pliilosophical Transactions, 1837, p. 47. 

t Chemical Society Memoirs, i, p. lOG. 
t Chemical Society Journal, iii, p. 24. 



188 PROFESSOR THOMAS GRAHAm's SCIENTIFIC WORK. 

temperature, and the reverse substitution of water for the basic ether 
of sulphethylic acid at a higher temperature, had been represented as 
depending on the augmented elasticity of the ether vapor at the higher 
temperature. Mr. Graham showed, however, that ether couhl be very 
readily formed by heating the mixture of sulphuric acid and alcohol in 
sealed tubes — that is, under conditions in which the augmentation of 
volatility due to heat -was 2)(iri passu counterbalanced by the diminution 
of volatility due to pressure. Altogether, Mr. Graham supported the 
contact theo^'y of ether formation, as opposed to the then received re- 
a(;tion theory; but several of his experiments afforded clear, though in- 
deed supererogatory, su[)port to the reaction theory soon afterward in- 
troduced by Williamson. 

In addition to the memoirs cited above, the question of hydration 
formed an express or incidental subject of many other of Mr. Giaham's 
investigations. It is noteworthy that, for him, osmosis became a me- 
chanical effect of the hydration of the septum ; that the interest attach- 
ing to liquid-transpiration was the alteration in rate of passage conse- 
quent on an altered hydration of the liquid ; that the dialytic difference 
between crystalloids and colloids depended on the dehydration of the 
dialytic membrane by the former class of bodies only ; and similarly in 

man\ other instances. 

III. 

Movements of liquUls under pressure. Transpiration. — That the ve- 
locities with whi<;h different liquids, under the same pressure, issue 
from a hole in the side or bottom of a vessel should be inversely as 
the square roots of their respective specific gravities is a projiositiou 
deducible from well-known mechanical principles. As demonstrated, 
however, by Dr. Poiseuille, this law is not applicable to the case of 
liquids issuing und(>r pressure tlirough capillary tubes. In addition 
to determining experimentally the laws of the passage of the same 
liquid — that the velocity is directly as the pressure, inversely as the 
length of the capillary, and directly as the fourth power of the 
diameter, and that it is accelerated by elevation of temperature — 
Dr. Poiseuille further showed that the rate of passage of different liquids 
through capillary tubes is for the most part a special property of the 
particular liquids ; and that while the rate of passage of water, for 
instance, is scarcely affected by the presence of certain salts in solution, 
it is materially accelerated by the presence of chlorides and nitrates of 
potassium and anunonium, and materially retarded by the presence of 
alkalies. He also showed that while the rate of passage of absolute 
alcohol is much below that of water, the rate of passage of alcohol 
diluted with water in such proportion as to form the hydrate, nGC2 0. 
3 Aq, is not only much below that of alcohol, but also below that of 
any other mixture of alcohol and water. 

Some time after Dr. Poiseuille's death Mr. Graham, starting from this 
last observation, took up the inquiry. Giving to the phenomenon itself 



PROFESSOR THOMAS GRAHAm's SCIENTIFIC WORK 



189 



tlie name of "transpiration," which lie had previously applied to the 
similar passage of gases through ca[)illary tubes, he eommunieated 
his results to the lioyal Society in a paper " On liipiid transpiratiou 
in relation to chemical composition."* The uiethod he followed in his 
exi>eriments was precisely that of Dr. Poiseuille, and the principal 
results at which he arrived are the following: 

1. That dilution with water does not effect upari passu alteration 
in the transpiratiou velocity of certain liquids ; but that dilution up to a 
certain point, corresponding to the formation of a definite hydrate, not 
unfrequently retards the transpiration velocity (or increases the trans- 
piration time) to a maximum, from which the retardation gradually 
diminishes with further dilution. This is well seen in the following 
table, giving the transpiration times of certain liquids in their undi- 
luted state, and also the maximum transpiration times observed with 
the same liquids when diluted with a regularly increasing quantity of 
water, the particular dilution causing the maximum retardation corre- 
sponding in every case to the production of a definite hydrate : 



Water H^O 

Snlpburic acid . . H 2 S 4 

Nitric acid HNO3 

Acetic acid H 4 C 2 3 

Alcobol Hc.CsO 

Wood-spirit ....H4CO 

Acetone HeCsO 




X Aq. 

HnS04.Aq. 

2HNOs.3 Aq. 

Ii4C2 02.2Aq. 

HnCoO.S Aq. 

H4CO.3 Aq. 

H0C3O.6 Aq. 



2. That the transpiration times of homologous liquids increase reg- 
ularly with the comi)lexity of tJie several molecules constituting terms 
of the same series — certain first terms of the different series, however, 
presenting some anomalies, as was, indeed, to be expected. The trans- 
piration times of the fatty ethers are given below in illustration. Similar 
results were obtained with the series of fatty acids and their correspond- 
ing alcohols: 

Transpiration times. 
Water H.^ O 1.000 



Ethers. 



f Formic H o C 3 O 2 . 

I Acetic H8C4O.2. 



Ml 

553 

] Butyric H12C0O3 750 

[valeric HnCjOa 827 

In this i:>aper Mr. Graham also recorded the results of two very full 
series of determinations of the transpiration rates of water at different 
temperatures between 0° and 70°, and of two similar series of ex- 
periments made with alcohol. The transpiration velocity of water was 
found to increase uuiforndy from U.o.jD at 0"^ to l.(M)t> at L'Oo, and thence 



' Philosophical Transactions, 1861, p. 373. 



190 PROFESSOR THOMAS GRAHAm's SCIENTIFIC WORK. 

to 2.350 at 70°; and correlatively the transpiration times were found to 
decrease in the same i)roportiou. The results obtained with alcohol 
were precisely similar. 

IV. 

Diffusion of liquids. — Mr. Graham's early study of the spontaneous 
movements of gases, so as to mix with one another, naturally led him 
to investigate the similarly occurring movements of liquids. His results 
formed the subject of two papers communicated to the Eoyal Society, 
one in 1849, "On the diffusion of liquids,"* and the other in 1801, " On 
liquid diffusion applied to analysis."! In the series of experiments 
described in the first of these papers and in two supplementary com- 
munications an open, wide-mouthed vial, filled with a solution of some 
salt or other substance, was placed in a jar of water ; when, in course of 
time, a portion of the dissolved salt, described as the diffusate, passed 
gradually from the vial into the external water. By experimenting iu 
this manner, the amounts of diffusate yielded by different substances 
were found to vary greatly. Thus, under i^recisely the same conditions, 
common salt yielded twice as large a diffusate as Epsom salt, and this 
latter twice as large a diffusate as gum-arabic. Every substance ex- 
amined was in this way found to have its own rate of diffusibility in the 
same liquid medium — the rate varying with the nature of the medium — 
whether water or alcohol, for instance. It is noticeable that the method 
of vial diffusion resorted to in these experiments is exactly similar to 
that employed by Mr. Graham in his earliest experiments on the diffu- 
sion of gases, published in the (Quarterly Journal of Science for 1829. 

In the series of experiments recorded in the paper "On liquid diffu- 
sion applied to analysis," the solution of the salt to be diffused, instead 
of being placed in a vial, was conveyed by means of a pipette to the 
bottom of a jar of water ; when, in course of time, the dissolved salt 
gradually rose from the bottom, through the superincumbent water, to 
a height or extent i)roportional to its diffusibility. The results of this 
method of jar-diffusion were found to bear out generally those attained 
by the nu'thod of vial-diffusion ; while they further showed the absolute 
rate or velocity of the diffusive movement. Thus, during a fourteen 
days' aqueous diffusion from 10 per cent, solutions of gum-arabic, 
Epsom salt, and common salt respectively, the gum-arabic rose only 
through y"j of the superincumbent water, or to a height of 55.5 milli- 
meters ; the Epsom salt rose through the whole \^ of superincumbent 
water, or to a height of 111 millimeters ; and the common salt not only 
rose to the top, but would have risen much higher, seeing that the up- 
permost or fourteenth statum of water, into which it had diffused, con- 
tained about fifteen times as much salt as was contained in the upper- 
most or fourteenth stratum of water into Avhich the Epsom salt had 
diffused. 

* Pliilosophical Transactions, 1850, pp. 1, 805 ; 1B51, p. 483. 
+ Ibid., 1861, p. 183. 



PROFESSOR THOMAS GRAHAM's SCIENTIFIC WORK. 191 

But of all tbe results obtained, tlie most interestin.cf, from tlieir bear- 
ing on various natural phenomena, were tbose on the partial separa- 
tion of different compounds from one another, brought about by their 
unequal diffusibility. Thus, with a solution of equal weights of com- 
mon salt and gum-arabic placed in the diffusion-^ial, for every 100 milli- 
grams of salt, not more than 22.5 milligrams of gum were found to 
pass into the external water ; or a separation of the salt from the gum, 
to this large extent, took i)lace spontaneously by the excess of its own 
proper diffusive movement. Again, when a solution, containing 5 
l)er cent, of common salt and 5 per cent, of Glauber's salt, was sub- 
mitted for seven days to tlie process of jar-diffusion, the upper half, or 
y^j, of superincumbent water was found to contain 3S0 milligrams of 
common salt and only 53 milligrams of Glaul)er's salt ; or the ratio of 
common salt to Glauber's salt in the upper half of the liquid was as 100 
to 11, the ratio in the original stratum of solution being as 100 to 100. 
And not onl^^ a partial separation of mixed salts, but even a partial 
decomposition of chemical compounds, was found to result from the pro- 
cess of liquid diffusion. Thus the double sulphate of potassium and 
hydrogen, when submitted to diffusion, underwent partial decomposi- 
tion into the more diffusible sulphate of hydrogen and the less ditfusible 
sulphate of potassium; and, similarly, ordinary alum, a double sulphate 
of aluminum and potassium, underwent partial decomposition into the 
more diffusible sulphate of potassium, and the less diffusible sulphate of 
aluminum. Strictly speaking, perhaps, the decomposition of the 
original salts was not caused by, but only made evident by, the differ- 
ence in diffusibility of the products. 

As a general result of his experiments, Mr. Graham inferred that 
liquid diffusibility is not associated in any definite way with chemical 
composition or molecular weight. Thus he found the complex organic 
bodies picric acid and sugar to have much the same diffusive rates as 
common salt and Epsom salt respectively. Isomorphous compounds, 
however, proved for the most part to be equi-diffusive; although the 
groups of equi-diffusive substances habitually comprehended other than 
those which were isomorphous. 

Observing further that, in many cases, the diffusion-rates of different 
equi-diffusive groups stood to one another in some simple numerical 
relation, Mr. Graham remarked that, "In liquid diffusion we no longer 
deal with chemical equivalents or the Daltonian atoms ; but with masses 
even more simply related to each other by weight." We may suppose 
that the chemical atoms "group together in such numbers as to form 
new and larger molecules of equal weights for different substances, 
Qj. * * * q£ weights which appear to have a simple relation to each 
other;" and he inferred that the relative weights of these new molecules 
would be inversely as the square roots of the observed diffusion rates of 
the substances — that is inversely as the squares of their diffusion times. 
Thus the squares of the times of equal diffusion of hydrate, nitrate, and 



192 PROFESSOR THOMAS GRAHAM's SCIENTIFIC WORK. 

snlpliate of potassium being 3, 0, and 12, the densities of tlieir diffusion 
molecules would be as the reciprocals of these numbers, or as 4, 2, and 1. 
Lastly, in comparing highly diffusive substances on the one hand, 
with feebly diffusive substances on the other, one broad dissimilarity 
became apparent, namely, that highly diffusible substances affected the 
crystalline state, while feebly diffusive substances were amorphous, and 
characterized, in particular, by a capability of forming gelatinous 
hydrates. Hence the distinction established by ^Ir. Graham between 
highly diffusive bodies, or crystalloids, and feebly' diffusive bodies, or 
colloids. Compounds capable of existing both in the crystalline and 
gelatinous states he found to be possessed of two distinct diffusive rates 
corresponding respectively each to each. 

V. 

Dialysis and osmose. — Tlie subject of dialysis was included in the paper 
"On liipiid diffusion applied to analysis," referred to in the preceding 
section; and some further results were communicated in ISGi to the 
chemical society, in a paper "On the properties of silicic acid and other 
analogous colloidal substances." * 

In the course of his experiments on diffusion, Mr. Graham made the 
curious discovery that highly diffusible crystalloid bodies were able to 
diffuse readily, not only into free water, but also into water that was 
already in a low form of combination, as in the substance of a soft solid, 
such as jelly or membrane. Common salt, for instance, was found to 
diffuse into a semi-solid mass of jelly almost as easily and as extensively 
as into a similar bulk of free water ; but the introduction of a gelatinous 
substance, though not interfering in any appreciable degree with the 
diffusion of a crystalloid, was found to arrest almost entirely the diffu- 
sion of a colloid. The colloid, of but little tendency to diffuse into free 
water, proved <piite in(;apable of diifusing into water that was already 
in a state of combination, however tWh\c. Hence, although the partial 
separation- of a highly diffusible from a feebly diffusible substance might 
be elfected by the process of free diffusion into water, a much better 
result was obtained by allowing the diffusion to take place into, or 
through, the combined water of a soft solid such as a piece of membrane 
or i)archment-paper. In the process of dialysis, then, crystalloid and 
colloid bodies, existing in solution together, are separated from one 
another by pouring the mixed solution into a shallow tray of membrane 
or parchment-paper, and letting the tray rest on the surface of a con- 
siderable excess of water, once or twice renewed. By this means the 
crystalloid, in process of time, diffuses completely away through the 
membranous septum into the free water; but the colloid, being quite 
in<;apable of permeating the membrane, however thin, is retained com- 
pletely on the tray, unable to reach the free water on the other side. 

* Chemical Society Joiunal, xvii, p. 316. 



PROFESSOR THOMAS GRAHAM's SCIENTIFIC WORK. 193 

By means of the process of dialysis, Mr. Graham succeeded in obtaiu- 
iug various colloid organic substances, such as tannin, albumen, gum, 
caramel, «S:c., in a very pure state; some of them, indeed, in a state of 
purity exceeding any in -which they had before been met with. But the 
most curious results were obtained with different mineral substances, 
usually thrown down from their dissolved salts in the state of gelatin- 
ous or colloid precipitates. Most of these precipitates being soluble in 
some or other crystalloid liquid, on submitting the so-produced solutions 
to dialysis, the crystalloid constituents diffuse away, leaving the colloid 
substances in pure aqueous solution. By proceeding in this manner, 
Mr. Graham was able to obtain certain hydrated forms of silica, ferric 
oxide, alumina, chrome, prussian-blue, stannic acid, titanic acid, tungstic 
acid, molybdic acid, &c., &c., in the state of aqueous solution — these 
bodies having never before been obtained in solution, save in presence 
of strongly acid or alkaline compounds serving to dissolve them. Alto- 
gether, the production of these colloid solutions of substances, such as 
silica and alumina — in their crystalline state, as quartz and corundum, 
completely insoluble — threw an entirely new light upon the conditions of 
aqueous solution. 

The colloidal solutions, obtained as above, of substances usuall}" crys- 
talline, were found to be exceedingly unstable. Either spontaneously, 
or on the addition of some or other crj^stalloid reagent, even in very 
minute quantity, they pectized or became converted into solid jellies. 
Hence Mr. Graham was led to speak of two colloidal states ; the peptous 
or dissolved, and the pectous or gelatinized. In addition to their power 
of gelatinizing, their mutability, their non-erystalline habit, and their 
low diffusibility, substances in the colloid state were found to be further 
characterized by their chemical inertness and by their high combining 
weights. Thus the saturating power of colloid silica was only about 
3L of that of the ordinary- acid. 

In his supplementary paper communicated to the Chemical Society, 
Mr. Graham showed how the pectous forms of different mineral colloids 
could, in many cases, be reconverted into their peptous forms. He 
further showed how the water of different peptous and pectous colloids 
could be mechanically displaced by other liquids, as alcohol, glycerine, 
sulphuric acid, &c. To the different classes of compounds so formed, 
he gave distinctive names. Thus, the alcoholic solution and jelly, of 
silicic acid for instance, he designated as the alcosol and alcogel respect- 
ively. 

Closely associated with the passage of different liquids through mem- 
branes is the action known as endosmose, discovered by Dutrochet. 
Mt. Graham's principal results on this subject are recorded in a very 
elaborate paper "On osmotic force,'' communicated to the lioyal Society 
in 1854; * but a few further results and a statement of his linal views 
are contained in the paper, referred to immediately above, "On liquid 

* Philosophical Transactious, 1834, p. 177. 

1.3 s 71 



194 PROFESSOR THOMAS GRAHAM'S SCIENTIFIC WORK. 

diffusion applied to analysis." When the solution of a saline or other 
compound is separated from an adjacent mass of water by a membra- 
nous septum, a greater or less quantity of the water very commonly 
passes through the septum into the solution ; and if the solution be con- 
tained in a vessel of suitable construction, having a broad membranous 
base and a narrow upright stem, the water, in some cases, flows into the 
vessel through the membrane, with a force sufficient to raise and sus- 
tain a column of 20 inches or more of liquid in the stem. The problem 
is to account for this flow ; which, with acid fluids more particularly, 
takes place in the reverse direction — i. e. from the solution into the 
water. 

In the course of his experiments Mr. Graham examined the osmotic 
movement produced with liquids of most diverse character, employing 
osmometers of animal membrane, albuminated calico, and baked earth- 
enware. His results were, moreover, observed and recorded in very 
great detail. As an illustration of these results, it may be mentioned 
that with 1 per cent, solutions in the membranous osmometer, the liquid 
rose in the stem 2 millimeters in the case of common salt, 20 millimeters 
with chloride of calcium, 88 millimeters with chloride of nickel, 121 
millimeters with chloride of mercury, 289 millimeters with j^roto-chloride 
of tin, 351 millimeters with chloride of copper, and 540 millimeters with 
chloride of aluminum. Mr. Graham showed, further, in opposition to 
tke views of Dutrochet, that the velocity of the osmotic flow was not 
proportional to the quantity of salt or other substance originally con- 
tained in the solution; and that the flow did not depend on capillarity', 
as Dutrochet had inferred; or yet on diffusion, as some of his own 
experiments might be thought to indicate. Eventually he was led to 
the conclusion that osmose was essentially dependent on a chemical 
action taking place between one or other of the separated liquids and 
the material of the septum. He appears to have held somewhat 
different views of the nature of this chemical action at different times, 
and not to have considered it as being in all cases of the same character. 

The following extracts, exjjressing his latest views on the subject, are 
taken from the conclusion of his paper " On li(]uid diffusion applied to 
analysis." 

'-'■ It now appears to me that the water movement in osmose is an affair 
of hydration and of dehydration in the substance of the membrane, or 
other colloid septum, and that the diffusion of the saline solution placed 
within the osmometer has little or nothing to do with the osmotic result 
otherwise than as it affects the state of hydration of the septum. * * ^ 
Placed in pure water, such colloids (as animal membrane) are hydrated 
to a higher degree than they are in neutral saline solutions. Hence the 
equilibrium of hydration is difterent on the two sides of the membrane 
of an osmometer. The outer surface of the membrane being in contact 
with pure water, tends to hydrate itself in a higher degree than the 
inner surface does, the latter surface being supposed to be in contact 



PROFESSOR THOMAS GRAHAm's SCIENTIFIC WORK. 195 

with a saline solution. When the full hydration of the outer surface 
extends through the thickness of the membrane, and reaches the inner 
surface, it thex-e receives a check. The degree of hydration is lowered, 
and tbe water must be given up by the inner layer of the membrane, 
and it forms the osmose. * * * Far from promoting this separation of 
water, the diffusion of the salt throughout the substance of the mem- 
brane appears to impede osmose by equalizing the condition as to saline 
matter of the membrane through its whole thickness. Th« advantage 
which colloidal solutions have in inducing osmose, appears to depend in 
l^art upon the low diffusibility of such solutions, and their want of power 
to penetrate the colloidal septum." 

VI. 

Movements of Gases under pressure. Effusion and transjnration. — 
The mechanical law of the passage of different gases nnder the same 
pressure through a mere perforation, as of the passage of different liquids, 
being that the velocities are inversely as the square roots of the specific 
gravities, Mr. Graham subjected this law to an experimental verification, 
and made known his results in a paper communicated to the Roj'al 
Society in 184G. The mode of experimenting was as follows : A jar 
standing on the plate of an air-pump was kept vacuous by continued 
exhaustion, and a measured quantity of gas allowed to find its way into 
the jar through a minute aperture in a thin metallic plate. The admis- 
sion of 00 cubic inches of dry air into the vacuous, or nearly vacuous 
jar, being arranged to take place in about 1,000 seconds, the times of 
passage of the same volume of air were found not to vary from each 
other by more than two or three seconds in successive experiments. 
Operating with difierent gases, the relative times of passage, or of "effu- 
sion," as it was denominated by Mr. Graham, proved to be approxima- 
tively identical with the square roots of the specific gravities of the several 
gases 5 or, in other words, their velocities of effusion were shown exper- 
imentally to be inversely as the square roots of their specific gravities. 
The rate of eiiusion of a mixed gas corresponded in most cases with the 
calculated mean rate of its constituents ; but the rates of effusion of the 
light gases, marsh gas and hydrogen, were very disproportionately re- 
tarded by the admixture with them, even to a small extent, of the heavier 
gases, oxygen and nitrogen. 

Passing from the study of the effusion of gases through a perforated 
plate, Mr. Graham next submitted their " transpiration" through a 
capillary tube to a similarly conducted experimental inquiry. His re- 
sults were communicated to the Eoyal Society in two very elaborate 
papers, " On the motion of gases," Parts I and II,* the first part con- 
taining also his above-described results on the effusion of gases. With 
a very short capillary, the relative rates of passage of different gases 
were found to approximate to their relative rates of effusion ; but with 

* Philosophical Traasactious, 184G, p. 573 ; 1849, p. 349. 



196 



PROFESSOR THOMAS GRA.HAM S SCIENTIFIC WORK. 



every elongation of the capillary, a constantly' increasing deviation from 
these rates was observed — the increase of the deviation, however, 
becoming less and less considerable with each successive increment 
of elongation, until, when the tube had acquired a certain length in 
pro])ortion to its diameter, a maximum deviation of the relative rates of 
passage of the ditferent gases from their relative rates of effusion was 
arrived at. These ultimate rates of passage, unaffected in relation to 
each other #by further elongation of the capillary, constitute the true 
transpiration velocities of the different gases, as distinguished from their 
velocities of effusion. Of all the gases experimented on, oxygen was 
found to have the longest transpiration time, or slowest transpiration 
velocity. In the following table its time of transpiration is taken as 
unity, and the times of a few other gases compared therewith. In other 
columns are given the specific gravities of the same gases, referred to 
the specific gravity of air as unity; and the square roots of their specific 
gravities, which also express their relative times of effnsion. 



Hydrogou . 
Marsh gas . 
Nitrogen .. 
Oxygen ... 
Carbonic g: 




V 



Specitic 
gravity. 



Transpiration 
time. 



. 263 


.437 


.7fl 


.551 


. 98.') 


.877 


1.051 


1.000 


1. 236 


.730 



That gas transpiration has no direct relation to gas specific gravity is 
shown by the transpiration times of oxygen and nitrogen exceeding the 
transpiration times both of the much lighter hydrogen and marsh gas, 
and of the much heavier carbonic gas. Again, ammonia, olefiaut gas, 
and cyanogen, Avith the diflerent si)ecific gravities .51)0, .978, and 1.806 
respectively, have the almost identical transpiration times .511, .505, 
and .500 ; or, approximatively, half the transpiration time of oxygen, 
1.000. Nevertheless the transinration times of oxygen and nitrogen are 
directly as their specific gravities: and farther, the specific gravities of 
nitrogen, carbonic oxide, and nitric oxide being .071, .008, and 1.039, 
their transpiration times are .877, .871, and .870 respectively. But then 
olefiaut gas, with the same specific gravity .978, has the much shorter 
transpiration time .505 ; and similarly in other cases. Altogether the 
discordance between transpiration and specific gravity is of greater fre- 
(jucncy than the accordance ; but still the circumstance of gases having 
the same, or about the same, specific gravity, having also the same, or 
about the same, rate of transpiration, is of too frequent occurrence to 
be merely accidental. 

As a rule, the observed trausi)iration rate of a mixture of gases cor- 
responded with the calculated mean rate of its constituents; but the 
transpiration rates of the light gases, hydrogen- and marsh gas, Avere 



PROFESSOR THOMAS GRAHAM's SCIENTIFIC WORK. 197 

fouiul to be disproportionately retarded to a greater extent even tliau 
tlieir effusion rates by the admixture with theui of heavier gases. Fur- 
ther, by employing mixtures of gas and vapor, Mr. Graham extended 
his inquiry so as to include a determination of the transpiration times 
of several vapors; the results being calculated on the assumption 
that the observed transpiration time of the mixture was the mean of 
the transpiration times of the permanent gas and of the coercible vapor 
experimented on. In this way the transpiration time of ether vapor, 
sp. gr. 2.0SG, was shown to be identical with that of hydrogen gas, sp. 
gr. 0.0C9 ; and the transpiration time of carbonic sulphide vajior, sp. gr. 
2.645, identical with that of sulphureted hydrogen gas, sp. gr. 1.191. 

With respect to gas transpiration in general, the rates of transpira- 
tion of different gases were found to be independent of the nature of 
the material of the capillary ; apjiarently from the capillary, of what 
material soever,, becoming lined with a film of gas, with which alone the 
current of gas conld come in contact ; so that the friction was purely 
intestine, and suggestive of a sort of viscosity in the gas itself. The 
rate of passage was further shown to be iuversel3" as the length of the 
capillary ; and directly, in some high but nndetermined ratio, as its di- 
ameter. Lastly, the rate of "effusion" of a given volume of any par- 
ticular gas being independent of pressure and temperature, the rate of 
transpiration of a given volume of any particular gas was observed to 
vary directly with its variation of density, whether the result of altera- 
tion of pressure or of temperature ; 100 cubic inches of dense air, for 
example, transpiring more rapidly than 100 cubic inches of tenuous air, 
in proportion to the excess of density. 

Speaking of the importance and fundamental nature of the physical 
l^roperties manifested by bodies in the gaseous state, and of the extent 
of his own inquiries on gas-transpiration, Mr. Graham observed : " It 
was under this impression that I devoted an amount of time and atten- 
tion to that class of constants (transpiration-velocities) which might 
otherwise appear disproportionate to their value and the importance 
of the subject. As the results, too, wei»e entirely nov^el, and wholly un- 
provided for in the received view of the gaseous constitution, of which 
indeed they prove the incompleteness, it was the more necessary to 
verify each fact with the greatest care." 

* VII. 

iJlJfmUm of ga.ws. — In 1801, Dalton, in an essay " On the constitu- 
tion of mixed gases, and particularly of the atmosphere," propounded 
the now celebrated view that " where two elastic fluids denoted by A 
and B are mixed together, there is no mutual repulsion among their par- 
ticles ; that is, the. particles of A do not repel those of B, as they do one 
another; consequently the pressure or whole weight upon any one par- 
ticle arises solely from those of its own kind." During the act of ad- 
mixture, ''the particles of A meeting with no repulsion from those of 



198 PROFESSOR THOMAS GRAHAm's SCIENTIFIC WORK. 

B . . . . would instantaneously recede from each other as far as possible 
under the circumstances, and consequently arrange themselves just as in 
a void space." At the beginning of 1803, in a supplementary paper 
"On the tendency of elastic fluids to diffusion through each other," he 
made known the remarkable action of intermixture which takes place, 
even in opposition to the influence of gravity, when any two gases are 
allowed to communicate with each other. Thus, in a particular experi- 
ment, he showed that when a vial of hydrogen is connected with a vial 
of carbonic gas by means of a narrow piece of tubing, so that the vial 
of light hydrogen may be inverted over the other vial of heavy carbonic 
gas, the heavy carbonic gas actually ascends through the light hydro- 
gen, and the light hydrogen descends through the heavy carbonic gas 
until the uniform admixture of the two gases with each other is efiected. 
The subject was afterward investigated by Berthelot, who, in a series of 
experiments performed with great care, while opposing Dalton's theo- 
retical conclusions, corroborated his results, and indicated further the 
high diffusiveness of hydrogen. Here it was that Mr. Graham took up 
the inquiry. The first of his papers relating directly to the vsubject 
of gas-diffusion appeared in the " Quarterly Journal of Science" for 
1829, under the title, "A short account of experimental researches 
on the diffusion of gases through each other, and their separation by 
mechanical means."* The mode of proceeding adopted in these re- 
searches was as follows: Each gas experimented on was allowed to 
diffuse from a horizontally placed bottle through a narrow tube, 
directed either upward or downward according as the gas was heavier 
or lighter than air, so that the difiusiou always had to take place in 
opposition to the influence of gravity. The result was that equal 
volumes of different gases escaped in very unequal times, the rapidity 
of the escape having an inverse relation to the specific gravity of the 
gas. Thus hydrogen was found to escape four or five times more 
quickly than the twenty-two times heavier carbonic gas. Again, with 
a mixture of two gases, the lightest or most diffusible of the two was 
found to leave the bottle in largest proportion, so that a sort of mechani- 
cal sei)aration of gases could be effected by means of their unequal 
diff'usibility. Most of these last results were obtained by allowing the 
gaseous mixture to diff'use into a limited atmosi)hcre of some other 
gas or vapor, capable of subsequent removal by absorption or condensa- 
tion. * 

But these methods of operating, by free or adiaphragmatic dittusiou, 
were soon abandoned by Mr. Graham for the more practicable method 
of diffusion through porous septa. Once again, however, many years 
afterwartl, in a paper " On the molecular mobility of gases," to be more 
fully considered presently, Mr. Graham made some additional and very 
curious observations on the free diffusion of hydrogen and carbonic 
gas into surrounding air, showing the absolute velocities of the molecu- 

* Quarterly Journal of Science, ii, 1829, p. 83. 



PROFESSOR THOMAS GRAHAM's SCIENTIFIC WORK. 199 

lar movements in each of the two cases. A glass cj^liuder, .57 meter 
liigb, had the lowest tenth of its height filled with carbonic gas. Then, 
after ditTerent intervals of time, the uppermost tenth of air in the 
cylinder was drawn off and examined. In five minntes the carbonic 
gas in this npper tenth of air amounted to .04, and in seven minutes 
to 1.03 per cent. ; or 1 per cent, of carbonic gas had diffused to the 
distance of half a meter in seven minutes, being at the rate of 73 mil- 
limeters per minute. Now, the conditions of this movement always 
prevail in the air of the atmosphere, and, using the words of INIr. Graham, 
" it is certainly most remarkable that in perfectly still air its molecules 
should spontaneously alter their position, and move to a distance of 
half a meter in any direction in the course of five or six minutes." 
By similar experiments made with an inverted cylinder, 1 per cent, of 
hydrogen was found to diffuse downward at the rate of 350 millimeters 
l^er minute, or about five times as rapidly as the carbonic gas diffused 
upward. 

With regard to Mr. Graham's experiments on the difiusion of gases 
through porous septa, his earliest results on this subject were communi- 
cated to the Royal Society of Edinburgh, in a paper " On the law of 
the diffusion of gases," already referred to as the first-born of what may 
be considered his great papers.* Prior even to Dalton's above-mentioned 
expermients on free diffusion, Dr. Priestly, when transmitting different 
gases through stoneware tubes surrounded by burning fuel, perceived 
that the tubes were porous ; and that not only was there an escape of 
the gas, under pressure, from within the tube outward to the fire, but 
that there was also a penetration of the exterior gases of the fire into 
the tube, notwithstanding the superior jiressure of the current of gas 
passing through the tube. 

Mr. Graham, however, appears to have had his attention originally 
directed to the study of the transmission of gases through porous 
diaphragms by the curious observations and experiments of Dobereiner, 
who, having occasion to collect and store some quantities of hydrogen 
over water, accidentally made use of a fissured jar, and was surprised 
to find that the water of the pneumatic trough rose in this jar to the 
height of an inch and a half in twelve hours, and to not far short of 
three inches in twenty-four hours. Having assured himself of the 
constancy of the ])henomenon, Dobereiner attributed it to capillary 
action, conceiving hydrogen to be alone attractable by, and, on account 
of the assumed minuteness of its atoms, admissible through the fissure. 
In repeating Dobereiner's experiments, however, Mr. Graham soon 
observed that the escape of hydrogen outward was always accompanied 
by a penetration of air inward, the volume of air finding an entrance 
through the fissure amounting to about one-fourth of the volume of 
hydrogen making its escape ; or the fissure proved permeable to the 
grosser air as well as to the finer hydrogen. Having arrived at this 



Ediuburgli Royal Soci.'ty Trausactious, xii, 1834, p. 2'^2. 



200 PROFESSOR THOMAS GRAHAM's SCIENTIFIC WORK. 

point, he replaced tlie Assured jar by an instrument admitting of 
much greater experimental indecision. For the jar itself he substituted 
a piece of glass tube about half au inch in diameter, and from eight to 
fourteen inches long, and for the fissure in the jar he substituted a 
plate of stucco serving to close one end of the tube. Operating with a 
diffusion-tube of this kind standing in ajar of water, it was found, as 
in Dalton's experiments, that the two gases, say external air and internal 
hydrogen, exhibited a powerful tendency to intermix or change places 
with each other ; but more than this, it was found that the air did not 
exchange with its own volume of hydrogen, but instead with 3.8 times 
its volume. Using the word diifusion-volume to express the bulks of 
different gases exchanging thus with one another by the process of 
diffusion, the diffusion-volume of hydrogen would be 3.8, that of air being 
taken as 1. Similarly, it was ascertained that every gas has a diffusion- 
volume which is peculiar to itself, and is indeed inversely as the square 
root of its specific gravity ; and since the unequal diffusion volumes of 
different gases are consequences of their unequal diffusion velocities, it 
follows that the relative velocities at which different gases diffuse into 
one another, by virtue of their own inherent mobility, are identical with 
those at which they effuse under pressure into a vacuum— a result quite 
in accordance with, and indeed deducible from, Dalton's aphorism. But 
although the relative rates of effusion and diffusion are alike, it is 
important, wrote Mr. Graham, in the later paper already quoted from, 
" to observe that the phenomena of effusion and diffusion are distinct 
and essentially different in their nature. The effusion movement affects 
masses of gas, the diffusion movement affects molecules ; and a gas is 
usually carried by the former kind of impulse with a velocity many 
thousand times as great as is demonstrated by the latter."* 

Thus the result arrived at by Mr. Graham, in his original paper, was 
the enunciation of the now well-recognized law of the diffusion of gases ; 
but some thirty years afterward, he again subjected the phenomena of 
gas-diffusion to an elaborate experimentalinvestigation— going over the 
old and penetrating into new ground with an activity by no means im- 
paired, and with intellectual powers largely expanded by increase of 
years. His results were communicated to the Eoyal Society of London, 
in a paper " On the molecular mobility of gases," t and it is impossible 
to read this and his original paper " On the law of the diffusion of 
gases " together, without being struck by the great advance in philo- 
sophic grasp and breadth of view which had become developed in the long 
interval between the publication of the two memoirs. These later ex- 
periments on gas-diffusion were made principally with septa of com- 
pressed graphite ; and it will be well to preface their consideration by 
Mr. Graham's own introductory remarks. He observes : 



*The motions of effusiou iiutler pressure, and of spontaneous diffusion, would appear 
to be alike traceable to the elasticity of the gas itself, exerted under the conditions to 
■which it is exposed at the time. 

t Philosophical Transactions, li:'l)3, p. 365. 



PROFESSOR THOMAS GRAHAM's SCIENTIFIC WORK. 201 

" The pores of artificial graphite appear to be really so miuute that a 
gas in mass cauuot penetrate the plate at all. It seems that molecules 
only can pass; and they may be supposed to pass wholly unimpeded by 
friction, for the smallest pores that can be imagined to exist in graphite 
must be tunnels in magnitude to the ultimate atoms of a gaseous body. 
The sole motive agency appears to be that intestine movement of 
molecules which is now generally recognized as an essential property of 
the gaseous condition of matter. 

" According to the physical hypothesis now generally received, a gas 
is represented as consisting of solid and perfectly elastic spherical par- 
ticles or atoms, which move in all directions, and are animated with dif- 
ferent degrees of velocity in different gases. Confined in a vessel, the 
moving particles are constantly impinging against its sides and occasion- 
ally against each other, and this contact takes place without any loss of 
motion, owing to the perfect elasticity of the particles. If the contain- 
ing vessel be porous, like a diffusiometer, then gas is projected through 
the open channels, hj the atomic motion described, and escapes. Simul- 
taneously the external air is carried inward in the same manner, and 
takes the place of the gas which leaves the vessel. To this atomic or 
molecular movement is due the elastic force, with the power to resist 
compression, possessed by gases. The molecular movement is accelera- 
ted by heat and retarded by cold, the tension of the gas being 
increased in the first instance and diminished in the second. Even 
when the same gas is present both within and without the vessel, or is 
in contact with both sides of our porous plate, the movement is sustained 
without abatement — molecules continuing to enter and leave the vessel 
in equal number, although nothing of the kind is indicated by change 
of volume or otherwise. If the gases in communication be different, but 
possess sensibly the same specific gravity and molecular velocity, as 
nitrogen and carbonic oxide do, an interchange of molecules also takes 
place without any change in volume. With gases opposed of unequal 
density and molecular velocitj^, the permeation ceases of course to be 
equal in both directions." 

One set of novel experiments recorded in the later i^aper, from which 
the above remarks are extracted, had reference to the diffusion of single 
gases through porous septa, into a vacuous or partially vacuous space. 
The diffusion-tube was substantially the sameas that formerly employed, 
except in the circumstance of its being closed by a jilate of compressed 
graphite instead of by stucco, and in the further circumstance of the 
tube itself being in some cases so far lengthened and otherwise modified 
as to admit of the production within it of a barometric vacuum of com- 
paratively large dimensions. The mode of experimenting was as fol- 
lows : The short tubes, when employed, were filled with mercury, and 
inverted in a mercurial trough. Then, by means of a very simple 
arrangement, the gas under examination was allowed to sweep over the 
surface of, and diffuse through, the graphite plate, so as to depress the 



202 PROFESSOR THOMAS GRAHAM's SCIENTIFIC WORK. 

mercury within the tube uutil it stood at a height of 100 millimeters 
only — that is, until the external pressure exceeded the internal pressure 
by 100 millimeters only. Matters being in this state, the experiment 
consisted in observing the number of seconds required for the admission 
through the graphite septum, into the graduated tube, of a given 
volume of gas — the mercury in the tube being kept throughout at the 
constant height of 100 millimeters, by a gradual lifting up of the tube, 
effected by a mechanical arrangement originally devised and employed 
by Professor Bunsen. The long tubes were filled with mercury in a dif- 
ferent manner; but the conduct of the experiments made with them 
differed only from that of the experiments made with the shorttubes,in 
that the level of mercury in the long tub(?s was maintained throughout 
at or near to the barometric height, so that the external gas diffused 
into the tube under full atmospheric pressure. Experimenting in this 
way, the relative times of permeation of equal volumes of different 
gases were found to be almost identical with the square roots of the 
specific gravities of the respective gases, as shown in the following 
table : 



Times of equal 
difiusion. 



Square roots of 
specific gravities. 



Oxygen 

Air 

Carbonic gas . 
Hydrogen 




These results are of great value from the simplicity and constancy of 
the conditions under which they were obtained, and from their close ac- 
cordance with the induced law. By allowing the diffusion to take place 
into a complete or partial vacuum, instead of into an atmosphere of 
other gas, the results were not complicated with those of interditTusion; 
and by employing a thin plate of highly compressed graphite, instead 
of a comparatively thick plug of more porous stucco, the results were 
not complicated with those of transpiration, as happened in some other- 
wise admirable experiments of Professor Bunsen, which led that dis- 
tinguished investigator to question at one time the accuracy of Mr. Gra- 
ham's law. 

The absence of any transpiration of gas through the graphite wafer 
was made evident by the want of any approximation, in the rates of 
passage, to the characteristic rates of transpiration ; and was conse- 
quent on the impermeability of the exceedingly minute pores of the 
graphite to any enforced bodily transmission of gas through them. It 
may be as well to state this conclusion in Mr. Graham's own words : 

"The movement of gases through the graphite plate appears to be 
solely due to their own proper molecular motion, quite unaided by trans- 
piration. It seems to be the simplest possiblei exhibition of the mole- 



PROFESSOR THOMAS GRAHAM's SCIENTIFIC WORK. 203 

cular or diffusive inovemeut of gases. Tbis pure result is to be ascribed 
to the wouderfully fine (niiuute) porosity of tbe grapbite. Tbe intersti- 
tial spaces appear to be suflicieutly small to extiuguisli capillary traus- 
piration entirely. Tbe grapbite plate is a pneumatic sieve wbicli stops 
all gaseous matter in mass, and permits molecules only to pass." 

By similarly conducted experiments, a determination was also made 
of tbe difference of rate, if any, at wbicb hydrogen diffuses through a 
graphite plate into a vacuum and into atmospheric air. Thus, in one 
minute of time, the following quantities of hydrogen passed through 
the graphite plate, in the two cases respectivel}'^ : 

1.289 cubic ceutimeters into a vacuum. 
1.24:5 cubic coutiiuoters into air. 

These numbers indicate a close approach to eciuality in tbe velocities of 
passage into a vacuum and into a space of other gas — a yet closer equal- 
ity being probably attainable by a modified form of experimenting. 

The diffusion of hydrogen into air, as in the above-referred-to experi- 
ment, is of course accompanied by a diff"usion of air into hydrogen, 
which bad to be allowed for in calculating out the above result. More- 
over, Mr. Graham made a special repetition of his early experiments ou 
interdiffusion, operating with dry instead of moist gas, substituting 
mercury for water in the diffusion-tube, maintaining a constant pressure 
by Bunsen's mechanism instead of by a pitcher of water, and using a 
wafer of graphite instead of a plug of stucco as the porous diaphragm. 
The theoretical exchange of bj drogen for air being 3.8 volumes for 1, 
and that of hydrogen for oxygen being 4.0 volumes for one, the ex- 
changing volumes actually found were 3.S7G and 4.124 respectively. 

Eeferring to the approximatively equally rapid passage of h^'drogeu 
into a vacuous and aerial space, Mr. Graham remarks as follows ou the 
subject of interdiffusion : 

" In fine, there can be little doubt left on the mind that the permea- 
tion through tbe grapbite plate into a vacuum, and the diffusion into a 
gaseous atmosphere, through tbe same plate, are due to the same inher- 
ent mobility of the gaseous molecule. They are the exhibition of tbis 
movement in different circumstances. In interdiffusion we have two 
gases moved simultaneously through the passages in opposite directions, 
each gas under the influence of its own inherent force; while with gas 
on one side of tbe plate, and a vacuum on the other side, we have a sin- 
gle gas moving in one direction only. Tbe latter case may be assimi- 
lated to the former if tbe vacuum be supposed to represent an infinitely 
light gas. It will not invoh^e any error, therefore, to speak of both 
movements as gaseous diffusion — the diffusion of gas into gas (double 
diffusion) in tbe one case, and the diffusion of gas into a vacuum (single 
diffusion) in the other. The inherent molecular mobility may also be 
justly spoken of as the diffusibility or diffusive force of gases. 

" Tbe diffusive mobility of the gaseous molecule is a property of mat- 
ter, fundamental in its nature, and the source of many others. The rate 



204 PROFESSOR THOMAS GRAHAM's SCIENTIFIC WORK. 

of dififasibility of any gas has beeu said to be regulated by its specific 
gravity, tlie velocity of diffusion having beeu observed to vary inversely 
as the square root of the density of the gas. This is true, but not in 
the sense of the dififusibility being determined or caused by specific grav- 
ity. The physical basis is the molecular mobility. The degree of mo- 
tion -which the molecule possesses regulates the volume which the gas 
assumes, and is obviously one, if not the only, determining cause of the 
peculiar specific gravity which the gas enjoys. If it were i^ossible to 
incBease in a permanent manner the molecular motion of gas, its specific 
gravity would be altered, and it would become a lighter gas. With the 
density is also associated the equivalent weight of a gaseous element, 
according to the doctrine of equal combining volumes." 

In addition to the above two sets of experiments, on the diffusion of 
a single gas into a vacuum and on the diffusion of one gas into another, 
a third set of experiments was made on the diffusion of one gas away 
from another ; or on the partial separation of mixed gases by the pro- 
cess of atmolysis. The experiments on this subject were conducted in 
several different ways, but the most striking results were obtained with 
what Mr. Graham named his tube atmolyser. This instrument consists 
of one or more lengths of ordinary tobacco-pipe, (conveying the current 
of mixed gas,) surrounded by a glass tube maintained in a more or less 
vacuous state by exhaustion with an air-pump. The most difi'usible 
constituent of the mixed gas passing aAvay in largest proportion 
through the porous material of the tobacco-pipe, the least diffusible con- 
stituent becomes concentrated in the residue of gas passing along, and 
finally delivered by the pipe. By this simple contrivance the proportion 
of oxygen in ordinary air, transmitted by the tobacco-pipe, was increased 
from below 21 up to 24.5 percent., as a result of the small superior diffu- 
sive velocity of nitrogen 1.01, over that of oxygen 0.95. 

In ©xi)eriments made with the far more unequall^^ diffusive gases 
oxygen and liydrogen, mixed in equal volumes, the i)roportion of oxy- 
gen transmitted by the tobacco-pipe was increased from the original 50 
per cent, to 90, and even in some cases, to 95 percent. Electrolytic gas, 
consisting of 33.3 per cent, oxygen and GG.G per cent, hydrogen, was 
slowly transmitted through a single tobacco-pipe, in some experiments 
inclosed in a vacuum, in others exposed to the air. In the vacuum ex- 
periments the transmitted gas was found to consist of 90.7 per cent, 
oxygen and 9.3 per cent, hydrogen. In the air experiments, the trans- 
mitted gas was found to consist of 40.1 per cent, oxygen, 5.5 per cent, 
hydrogen, and 54.1 per cent. air. In both cases it had lost its explosive 
character, and acquired the property of re-inflaming a glowing splinter. 

This paper of Mr. Graham's "On the molecular mobility of gases" was 
supplemented by a communication made to the Chemical Society in 18G4, 
entitled "Speculative ideas respecting the constitution of matter,"* 
from which the following extracts are taken : 

* Chemical Society Journal, xvii, p 368. 



PROFESSOR THOMAS GRAHAm's SCIENTIFIC WORK. 205 

"It is couceivable that the various kinds of matter, now recognized as 
different elementary substances, may possess one and the same ultimate 
or atomic molecule existing iu different conditions of movement. The 
essential unity of matter is a hypothesis in harmony with the equal 
action of gravity upon all bodies. We know the anxiety with which 
this point was investigated by Xewton, and the care he took to ascer- 
tain that every kind of substance, 'metals, stones, woods, grain, salts, 
animal substances,' &c., are similarly accelerated in falling, and are there- 
fore erpially heavy. 

" In the condition of gas, matter is deprived of numerous and varying 
properties, with which it appears invested when in the form of a liquid 
or solid. The gas exhibits oidy a few grand and simple features. These 
again may all be dependent upon atomic or molecular mobility. Let us 
imagine one kind of substance only to exist — ponderable matter; and 
further, that matter is divisible into ultimate atoms, uniform in size and 
weight. We shall then have one substance and a common atom. With 
the atom at rest the uniformity of matter would be perfect. But the 
atom possesses always more or less motion, due, it must be assumed, to 
a primordial imjiulse. This motion gives rise to volume. The more 
rapid the movement the greater the space occupied by the atom, some- 
what as the orbit of a planet widens with the degree of projectile velo- 
city. Matter is thus made to differ only in being lighter or denser 
matter. The specific motion of an atom being inalienable, light matter 
is no longer convertible into heavy matter. In short, matter of different 
density forms different substances — different inconvertible elements, as 
they have been considered. 

" But further, these more and less mobile, or light and heavy forms 
of matter, have a singular relation connected with equality of volume. 
Equal volumes of two of them can coalesce together, unite their move- 
ment, and form a new atomic group, retaining the whole, the half, or 
some simple proportion of the original movement and consequent 
volume. This is chemical combination. It is directly an affair of 
volume, and only indirectly connected with weight. Combining weights 
are different, because the densities, atomic and molecular, are different. 
The volume of coml)ination is uniform, but the fluids measured vary in 
density. This fixed combining measure — the mctron of simple sub- 
stances — weighs 1 for hydrogen, 10 for oxygen, and so on with tlie other 
' elements.' 

"To the preceding statements respecting atomic and molecular mo- 
bility, it remains to be added that the hypothesis admits of another 
expression. As in the theory of light we have the alternative hy])otli- 
eses of emission and undulation, so in molecular mobility the motion 
may be assumed to reside either in separate atoms and molecules, or in 
a fluid medium caused to undulate. A special rate of vibration or ]nilsa- 
tion originally imparted to a jtortion of the fluid medium enlivens that 
portion of matter with an individual existence, and constitutes it a dis- 
tinct substance or element. 



20G PROFESSOR THOMAS GRAHAM's SCIENTIFIC WORK. 

"Lastly, molecular or diflfusive mobility has an obvious bearing upon 
the communication of heat to gases by contact with liquid or solid sur- 
faces. The impact of the gaseous molecule upon a surface possessing a 
different temperature appears to be the condition for the transference of 
heat, or the heat movement, from one to the other. The more rapid the 
molecular movement of the gas, the more frequent the contact with con- 
sequent communication of heat. Hence, probably, the great cooling 
power of hydrogen gas as compared with air or oxygen. The gases 
named have the same specific heat for equal volumes, but a hot object 
placed in hydrogen is really touched 3.8 times more frequently than it 
would be if placed in air, and 4 times more frequently than it would be 
if placed in an atmosphere of oxygen gas. Dalton had already ascribed 
this peculiarity of hydrogen to the high 'mobility' of that gas. The 
same molecular property of hydrogen recommends the application of 
that gas in the air-engine, where the object is to alternately heat and 
cool a confined volume of gas with rapidity." 

VIII. 

Passage of gases through colloid septa. — In 1830, Dr. Mitchell, of Phila- 
delphia, discovered a power in gases to penetrate thin sheet India 
rubber ; and, noticing the comiiaratively rapid transmission of carbonic 
gas through the rubber, associated this observation with the further one 
that a solid piece of India rubber is callable of absorbing its own volume 
of carbonic gas, when left in contact with excess of the gas for a suffl- 
cieut leugth of time. By means of a suitable arrangement, Dr. Mitchell 
found that various gases passed si)ontaneousl3^ through a caoutchouc 
membrane into an atmosphere of ordinary air with different degrees of 
velocity — that as much of ammonia gas was transmitted in 1 minute as 
of carbonic gas in oi minutes, as of hydrogen in 37^ minutes, and as of 
oxygen in 113 minutes. Soon after their publication, these results were 
ably commented on and extended by Dr. Draper, of New York ; and, 
altogether, they attracted considerable attention in scientific circles. 
One of Mr. Graham's earliest observations — having reference to the 
spontaneous passage of carbonic gas into a moist bladder of air, so as 
ultimately to burst the bladder — had obviously a very close connection 
with Dr. ]\Iitcliell's results, and received from Mr. Graham in 1829 the 
same explanatioii that in 18GG he gave to his own India rubber experi- 
ments, the account of which he communicated to the Royal Society in a 
paper "On the absorption and dialytic separation of gases by colloid 
septa." * In his experiments on the j)enetration of different gases, 
through septa of India rubber, into a vacuum, Mr. Graham employed 
a tube considerably^ exceeding in length the barometric column, open at 
one end and closed at the other by a thin film of caoutchouc stretched 
over a plate of highly porous stucco. On filling this tube with mercury, 

* Philosophical Transactions, 18i6, p. 399. 



PROFESSOR THOMAS GRAHAM S SCIENTIFIC WORK. 



207 



and inverting it into a cup of mercury, a Torricellian vacuum was left 
at tbe toji, into wbich the external air, or any external gas experimented 
on, gradually found its way by passage through the caoutchouc film, so 
as to cause a depression of the mercurial column. By experiments made 
in this manner, it was found that difierent gases penetrated the rubber, 
and entered the vacuous space with the following relative velocities, 
differing widely from the velocities of diffusion and transpiration of the 
same gases given in the other two columns of the table : 





Rates of i>assage 
tbrough caoutchouc. 


Transpiration 
velocities. 


Diffusion 
velocities. 


Nitrogen . - 


1.00 
2. 15 
■2.55 
5. 50 

13.58 


1.14 
1.81 
1.00 
2. 20 
1.37 


1.01 


Marsh gas 

Oxvfen 


1.34 

.95 


Hvdi'ofen . ..... ... . . 


3.80 


Carboiiic fas 


81 







Oxygen 20.8 X 2.55 = 53.04 ~ 

Nitrogen 79.2x1.0 = 79.20 



f 40 
CO 



Bearing in mind the partial separation of gases from one another at- 
tainable by reason of their unequal diffusive velocities, the possibility 
of effecting a similar separation of gases by reason of their unequal 
velocities of transmission through India rubber was easily to be fore- 
seen. For example, atmospheric air consisting of 20.8 volumes of oxj^- 
gen and 79.2 volumes of nitrogen, and the transmission velocities of 
these two gases being respectively 2.55 and 1.0, it follows that the air 
transmitted through India rubber into a vacuum should consist of 40 
per cent, oxygen and GO percent, nitrogen, thus: 

132.24 J 1 100 

In subjecting this conclusion to the test of experiment, Mr. Graham 
availed himself of Dr. SpreugeFs then newly invented mercurial puuip 
or exhauster, an instrument which also stood him in good stead in his 
subsequent work, and to which he freely acknowledged his obliga- 
tions. By a slight alteration in the pump, as originallj^ constructed, 
Mr. Graham made it serve not only for its original purpose of creating 
and maintaining an almost perfect vacuum, but also for delivering pari 
pasKH any gas penetrating into the vacuum through its caoutchouc or 
Oither walls. 

The caoutchouc films employed in these experiments were of various 
kinds ; but the most readily practicable and, on the w-hole, successful 
results, were obtained with India-rubber varnished silk made up into a 
flat bag, exposing on each side about 0.25 meter of square surfiice. 
The interior of such a bag being in communication with the Sprengel 
pump, the. constituents of the external air were graduallj^ sucked 
through the walls of the bag and delivered by the turned-up fall-tube of 



208 PROFESSOR THOMAS GRAHAm's SCIENTIFIC WORK. 

the pump. On examining the delivered gas, it was found to contain on 
the average 41. G per cent, of oxygen ; and accordingly, to have the prop- 
erty of re-inllaming a glowing splinter. Thus, by the simple suction of 
atmospheric air through a caoutchouc film, the remarkable result was 
arrived at of nearly doubling the proportion of 0x3' gen in the volume 
of air sucked through. Unfortunately for the practical application of 
the process, the entire volume of air sucked through proved to be very 
small, about 2.25 cubic centimeters per minute, per square meter of sur- 
face, at 20° C. At 60° C, however, the passage of air through the rub- 
ber was almost exactly three times as rapid as at 20°. 

Instead of allowing the gases experimented on to pass through the 
India rubber into a vacuous space, they were in some cases allowed to 
l)ass into space already occupied with a different gas, somewhat as in 
Dr. Mitchell's original experiments; but the conditions of the action 
were then more complex. The constituent gases of atmospheric air, for 
instance, pass through an India-rubber septum into a space containing 
carbonic gas at the relative velocities with which they enter a vacuous 
space ; but throughout the experiment, not only are oxygen and nitro- 
gen continually entering the space, but carbonic gas is continually, and 
very rapidly, escaping from it. Eventually, by the rapid escape of car- 
bonic gas, the proportien or pressure of oxygen in the internal space 
comes to exceed that in the external air ; whereupon a reverse trans- 
mission, through the India rubber, of the excess of oxygen into the ex- 
ternal air, at once begins. But by stopping the operation at an early 
stage, and then absorbing the carbonic gas with caustic alkali, a residue 
of hyperoxygenized air was left, capable, in some cases, of re-inflaming 
a glowing splinter, and containing as much as 37.1 volumes of oxygen 
to 02.9 volumes of nitrogen. 

The interpretation given by their discoverer to the above results 
was in accordance with his slowly-developed views on the relations of 
gases and liquids to each other and to soft solids. Having satisfied 
himself that the merest film of India rubber is quite devoid of porosity, 
and that oxygen is at least twice as absorbable by India rubber as by 
water at ordinary temperature, (the absorbability of its own volume of 
carbonic gas by India rubber, as by water, having been noticed by Dr. 
Mitchell,) Mr. Graham came to view the entire phenomenon as having 
a very complex character, as consisting in a dissolution of the gas in 
the soft India rubber ; in a diffusion of the liquefied gas, as a liquid, 
through the thickness of the India rubber; in an evaporation of the 
liciuefied gas from the internal surface of the India rubber; and lastly 
in a difi'usion of the evaporated gas into the internal space. Thus, in 
reference to the remarks of Drs. Mitchell and Draper, he writes : 
" These early speculations lose much of their fitness from not taking 
into account the two considerations already alluded to, which appear 
to be essential to the full comprehension of the phenomenon, namely, 
that gases undergo liquefaction when absorlied by liquids and such 



PROFESSOR THOMAS GRAHAm's SCIENTIFIC WORK. 209 

colloid substrtuces as India rubber, and that their transmission throuuli 
liquid and colloid septa is then effected by the agency of liquid and 
not gaseous diffusion. Indeed, the complete suspension of the gaseous 
function during the transit through colloid membrane cannot be kept 
too much in view." Mr. Graham seems thus to have recognized at 
least three distinct modes of gas transmission through a solid or semi- 
solid septum : 

1st. By a sufficient degree of pressure gases might be forced bodily, 
i. e. in masses, through the minute channels of a porous septum ; or, in 
other words, might i)ass through such a septum by transj) initio a, of 
course in the direction only of the preponderating total pressure. 

2d. As the channels of a porous septum became more and more 
minute, their resistance to the bodily transmission of gas would be- 
come greater and greater, and the quantity of gas forced through them 
less and less, until at length the septum would be absolutely im- 
permeaisle to transpiration under the particular pressure. But su^ch 
a septum, of which the individual capillary channels were so small 
as to offer a frictional resistan(;e to the passage of gas greater than 
the available pressure could overcome, might nevertheless present a 
cousiderable aggregate of interspace through which the diffusion i)roper 
of gases, consequent on their innate molecular mobility, could take 
place freely in both directions. 

3d. A septum might be (luite free from pores, of any kind or degree 
of minuteness, and so far be absolutely impermeable to the transmis- 
sion of gas in the form of gas ; but it might nevertheless permit a 
considerable transmission of certain gases by reason of their prior 
solution or liquefaction in the substance of the septum. And whereas 
the mere passage of gas, by transpiration or diffusion through a porous 
septum, would take place in thorough independence of the nature of the 
material of the septum, in this last-considered action, the transmission 
would take place by virtue of a sort of chemical affinity between the gas 
and the material of the septum — the selective absorption of the gas by 
the septum being a necessary antecedent of its transmission; whence 
it might be said the gas was transmitted because it was first absorbed.' 
Of course in certain transmissions two, or all three, modes of action 
might come into play simultaneously. 

IX. 

Occlusion of f/ases hy metals. — The experiments of Devillc and Troost 
having made known the curious fact of the permeability of ignited 
homogeneous i)latiinun and ignited homogeneous iron to hydrogen gas, 
and given some indication also of the permeability of ignited iron to 
carbonic oxide gas, Mr. Graham, in 18GG, corroborated the results of 
the French chemists in reference to platinum ; but, nn)difying their 
method by letting the hydrogen pass into a space kept vacuous by the 
Sprengel i)ump, instead of into an atmosphere of other gas, assimilated 
14 s 71 



210 PROFESSOR THOMAS GRAHAM'S SCIENTIFIC WORK. 

the process to tbat which he had employed in his India-rubber experi- 
ments. The results he obtained Avere communicated to the Eoyal 
Society, partly in the paper already referred to " On the absorption and 
separation of gases by colloid septa," and partly m four supplementary 
notices published in the proceedings of the society.* In carrying out 
the investigation forming the subject of these several communications, 
]Mr. Gnvhaiu had the advantage of being admirably seconded by his 
assistant, Mr. W. Chandler IJoberts, whose able and zealous co-opera- 
tion he repeatedly acknowledged in the warmest terms. 

In the course of experiments made on the transmission of gases 
through ignited metallic septa, a particular platinum tube, being ren- 
dered vacuous, was found at all temperatures below redness to be quite 
impermeable to hydrogen ; whereas, at a red heat, it transmitted 100 
cubic centimeters of hydrogen in half an hour, the quantities of oxygen, 
nitrogen, marsh gas, and carbonic gas, transmitted under the same con- 
ditions, not amounting to .01 cubic centimeter each in half an hour. 
It was ascertained farther that, with an ignited vacuous tube of 
platinum surrounded by a current of ordinary coal-gas, (a variable 
mixture of gases containing on the average about 45 i^er cent, of 
marsh gas, 40 per cent, of hydrogen, and 15 per cent, of other gases 
aud vapors,) a transmission of pure hydrogen alone took i^lace thi'ongh 
the heated metal. This property of selective transmission, manifested 
by platinum, was so far analogous to the property of selective trans- 
mission manifested by India-rubber, that whereas a septum of Jiulia 
rubber transmitted the nitrogen of the air in a much smaller ratio 
than the oxygen, the septum of ignited platinum transmitted the 
other constituents of coal-gas in an infinitely smaller ratio than the 
hydrogen. Hence the knowledge of the absorption by India rubber of 
the gases which it most freely transmitted, suggested to Mr. Graham an 
inquiry as to the possible absorption of hydrogen gas by platinum. 
Accordingly platinum, in different forms, was heated to redness, and 
then allowed to cool slowly in a continuous current of hydrogen. 
The metal so treated, and after its free exposure to the air, was i)laced 
in a porcelain tube, which was next made vacuous by the Sprengel 
pump. During the production and maintenance of the vacuum, no 
hydrogen was extracted from the metal at ordinary temperatures ; 
or even during an hour's exposure to the temperature of 220° ; or yet 
at a heat falling just short of redness. But at a dull red-heat and 
upward, a quantity of hydrogen gas was given oft' amounting in 
volume, measured cold, to as much, in some cases, as 5.5 times the 
volume of the platinum. Thus was opened out to Mr. Graham the 
subject of his last, and probably greatest discovery, the occlusion of 
gases by metals. Very many metals were examined in their relations 
to different gases, but the most interesting results were those obtained 
with platinum as above described ; and those obtained with silver, with 
iron, and, above all, with palladium. 

* Royal Society Proceecliugs, xv, p. 502; xvi, p. 4"22; xvii, p. 212, p. 500. 



PROFESSOR THOMAS GRAHAM's SCIENTIFIC WORK. 211 

The cliaiacteristic property of silver, heated and cooled in difterent 
atmospheres, proved to be its eapability of absorbing and retaininji', in 
some cases, as much as seven times its vohime of oxygen — its absorj^ion 
of hydrogen falling short of a single volume. Some silver-leaf, heated 
and cooled in ordinary air, and subsequently heated in a vacuum, gave 
off a mixture of oxygen and nitrogen gases containiijg 85 per cent, of 
oxygen, or more than four times the proportion contained in the original 
air. This remarkable property of solid silver to effect the permanent 
occlusion of oxygen gas, must be distinguished from the not less remark- 
able and doubtless associated property of melted silver to effect the 
temporary absorption of a yet larger volume of the same gas : which, 
on the soliditication of the metal, is discharged with the well-known 
phenomenon of spitting. 

Iron, though tolerably absorptive of hydrogen, was found to be 
specially characterized by its absorption of carbonic oxide. What may 
be called the natural gas of wrought iron, or the gas derived from the 
forge in which it was heated, proved to consist chiefly of carbonic oxide, 
and, in difterent experiments, was found to range from 7 to iL'.o times 
the volume of the metal ; so that, in the course of its i^reparation, iron 
would appear to occlude upward of seven times its volume of carbonic 
oxide, and to carry this gas about with it ever after. The absorbability 
of carbonic oxide by iron has an obviously important bearing on the 
theory of steel production by cementation. This process would appear 
to consist in an absorption of carbonic oxide gas into the substance of 
the iron, and in a subsequent decomposition of the absorbed gas into 
carbon entering into combination with the metal, so as to etfect its 
acieration, and carbonic gas discharged from the surface of the metal, so 
as to produce the well-known appearance of blistering. "Nor is this the 
only, or even the chief point of interest that was made out with regard to 
iron ; for the study of the behavior of telluric manutVictured iron 
naturally led Mr. Graham to the examination of sidereal native iron, 
that is to say, the iron of meteorites, and with the following result. A 
portion of meteoric iron, from the Lenarto fall, when heated ;'» vacuo, gave 
otf 2.85 times its volume of natural gas, of which thepreponderatingcon- 
stituent, to the extent of 85.7 per cent, of the total (piantity, consisted 
not of carbonic oxide, but of hydrogen, the carbonic oxide amounting 
to only 4.5 per cent., and the remaining 9.8 per cent, consisting of nitro- 
gen. The inference that the meteorite had been, at some time or other, 
ignited in an atmosphere having hydrogen as its prevailing constituent, 
seems irresistible; and judging from the volume of gas yielded by the 
iron, the hydrogen atmosphere in which it was ignited must, in all prob- 
ability, have been a highly condensed one ; the charge of hydrogen 
extracted being fully five times as great as it was found possible to im- 
part to ordinary iron artificially. 

But it was with palladium that Mr. Graham obtained his most extra- 
ordinary results. This metal he found to have the property of trans- 
mitting hydrogen with extreme facility, even at temperatures very far 



212 PROFESSOR THOMAS GRAHAm's SCIENTIFIC WORK. 

short of reduess. Coiucideutly, at temperatures even below those 
requisite for trausmission, palladium was found capable of absorbing 
many hundred times its volume of hydrogen. Thus apiece of palladium- 
foil maintained at a temperature of 90O-97° for three hours, and then 
allowed to cool down during an hour and a half, while surrounded by a 
continuous current of hydrogen gas, gave off, on being afterward heated 
w vacuo, 04:3 times its volume of the gas, measured cold ; and even at 
ordinai-y temperatures, it absorbed 370 times its volume of the gas, pro- 
vided it had first been recently ignited in vacuo. In another experi- 
ment, palladium sponge, heated to 200° in a current of hydrogen and 
allowed to cool slowly therein, afterward yielded 080 times its volume 
of the gas ; while a piece of electrolytically deposited palladium heated 
only to 100c> in hydrogen, afterward yielded, upon ignition in vacuo, no 
less than 082 times its volume of the gas. The lowness of the tempera- 
ture at which, under favorable circumstances, the absorption of hydro- 
gen by palladium could thus be effected, soon suggested other means of 
bringing about the result. For example, a piece of palladium-foil was 
placed in contact with a quantity of zinc undergoing solution in dilute 
sulphuric acid; and, on subsequent examination, was found to have 
absorbed 173 times its volume of hydrogen. Again, palladium, in the 
forms of wire and foil, was made to act as the negative pole of a Bun- 
sen's battery effecting the electrolysis of acidulated water ; and in this 
; manner was found to absorb from 800 to 950 times its volume of hydr»- 
geu in different experiments. 

Palladium being thus chargeable with hydrogen in three different 
ways — namely, by being heated and cooled in an atmosphere of the gas ; 
by being placed in contact with zinc dissolving in acid, i. e., with hydro- 
gen in the act of evolution ; and, lastly, by being made the negative 
electrode of a battery — correlativelj', the charged metal could be freed 
from its occluded hydrogen by exposing it to an increase of temperature 
in air or vacuo ; by acting on it with different feebly oxidizing mixtures; 
and by making it the positive electrode of a battery. 

The palladium, when charged to its maximum, was frequently found 
to give off a small proportion of its hydrogen, though with extreme 
slowness, at ordinarj- temperatures, both into the atmosjdiere and into 
a vacuum. But not until the temperature approached 100° was there 
any appreciable gas-evolution ; which, above that point, took place with 
a facility increasing with the temperature, so as to be both rapid and 
complete at about 300°. Since, however, the transmission of hydrogen 
through heated palladium is a phenomenon of simultaneous absorption 
and evolution, it follows that the property of palladium to absorb hydro- 
gen does not cease at 300", or indeed at close upon the melting-point of 
gold — the highest temperature at Mhich Mr. Graham's experiments on 
transmission were conducted ; but whereas the maximum absorption of 
hydrogen by i)alladium takes place at comparatively low temperatures, 
the velocity of transmission was observed to increase, in a rapid ratio, 
with the increase of temperature, indefinitely. 



PROFESSOR THOMAS GRAHAm's SCIENTIFIC WORK. 213 

As regards the removal of hydrogen from palladium by oxygenants, 
the gas of the charged metal was found to manifest all the chemical 
activity of hydrogen in the nascent state. Thus it reduced corrosive 
sublimate to calomel, combined directly with free iodine, converted 
ferrid into ferro cyanides, destroyed the color of permanganates, &c. 
Moreover, the spongy metal, charged with hydrogen and exposed to the 
air, was apt to become suddenly hot, and so completely discharged, by 
a spontaneous aerial oxidation of its absorbed gas into water ; while the 
hydrogen of a piece of charged palladium wire was often capable of 
being set fire to, and of burning continuously along the wire. 

Lastly, the reversal of the position of the palladium plate in the 
decomposing cell of the battery afforded a most ready means of com- 
jiletely extracting its hydrogvn. Indeed, for some time after the rever- 
sal, while hydrogen was being freely evolved from the negative pole, no 
oxygen was observable on the surface of the palladium plate, now made 
the positive pole, through its rapid oxygenation of the absorbed 
hydrogen. 

As regards the extent of the absorption of hydrogen by palladium, it 
was found, as already indicated, to vary considerably with the physical 
state of the metal, whether fused, hammered, spongy, or electrolytically 
deposited, for example. In one case, previously referred to, a specimen 
of electrolytically deposited palladium, heated to 100'^, and then slowly 
cooled in a continuous current of hydrogen, was found to occlude 982.14: 
times its volume of the gas, measured cold. In this case the actual 
weight of palladium experimented with was 1.0020 gram, and the 
weight of hydrogen absorbed . 0073 gram, being in the ratio of 
90,277 per cent, of palladium and 0.723 per cent, of liydrogen. The 
atomic weight of hydrogen being 1, and that of palladium 100.5, it is 
observable that the ratio of the weights of the constituents of the charged 
metal, hydrogen and palladium, approximates to the ratios of their 
atomic weights. 

In another experiment some palladium wire, drawn from a piece of 
the fused metal, was charged electrolytically with 935.G7 times its volume 
of hydrogen. Some idea of these enormous absorptions of hydrogen may 
be formed by remembering that water at mean temperature absorbs 
only 782.7 times its volume of that most absorbable of the common gases, 
ammonia. 

A point of interest with regard to the different quantities of liydrogen 
absorbable by palladium in its different states is the gradual diminution 
in the absorptive power of any particular specimen of the metal with 
each successive charge and discharge of gas in whatever way effected — 
the absorptive power, however, being partially restorable by subjecting 
the metal to a welding heat. 

The density of palladium charged with eight or nine hundred times 
its volume of hydrogen is perceptibly lowered. Owing, however, to a 
continuous formation of bubbles of hydrogen on the surface of the 



214 PROFESSOR THOMAS GRAHAM's SCIENTIFIC WORK. 

cliarged metal when immersed in water, there is a difficulty iu taking 
its exact density by comparing- its respective weights in air and water 
with one another. There is also a difficulty in determining the density 
by direct measurement of the charged palladium when in tlie form of 
wire; owing to the curious property of the wire, on being discharged, 
of not merely returning to its original volume, but of undergoing a con- 
siderable and i)ermanent additional retraction. But in the case of cer- 
tain alloys of platinum, silver, and gold with excess of palladium, while 
the absorptive power of the constituent palladium is still manifested, the 
excess of retraction on discharge of the wires does not occur; and the 
specific gravities deducible from the mere increase in length of wires of 
these alloys are found to accord approximatively with those deducible 
from the increase in length of the pure ijalladium wire, not above its 
original length, but above the length to which it retracts on discharge 
of its absorbed gas. It would thus appear that, simultaneously with its 
absorption of hydrogen, the pure palladium wire, unstably stretched by 
the process of drawing, suffers two opposite actions ; that is to say, it 
undergoes a process of shortening by assuming a more stable condition 
of cohesion, and a process of lengthening by the addition to it of other 
matter — the lengthening due to the additional matter being the excess 
of the length of the charged above that of the discharged wire. In a 
particular experiment illustrative of this peculiarity, a new platinum 
wire took up a full charge of hydrogen electrolytically, namely, 95G.3 
volumes, and increased in length from 609.585 to 019.351 millimeters. 
With the expulsion of the hydrogen afterward, the wire was perma- 
nently shortened to 600.115 millimeters. The sum of the two changes 
taken together amounts to 19.239 millimeters, and represents the true 
increase in the length of the wire due to the addition of hydrogen. It 
corresponds to a linear expansion of 3.205 in 100, or to a cubical expan- 
sion of 9.S27 iu 100. The original volume of the wire being .120 cubic 
centimeter, the volume of the condensed hydrogen would accordingly 
be .01238 cubic centimeter. Then, as the charged wire, on being heated /m 
vacuo, evolved 120.5 cubic centimeters of hydrogen gas, weighing .0108 
gram, the density of the absorbed hydrogen would be — 

, 01080 

= .872. 

. 01233 

Calculated from the mere increase in length of the charged wire above 
that of the wire originally, the density of the absorbed hydrogen would 
be 1.708. The following table gives the densities of condensed hydro- 
gen in different experiments made with palladium wire, in which the 
excess of retraction on discharge was allowed for as above ; and also 
the densities observed in experiments made with palladium alloys in 
which the contraction on discharge took place to the original lengths of 
the wires onlj': 



PROFESSOR TH0:S1AS GRAHAM'S SCIENTIFIC WORK. 



215 



When uiiitL'd with — 


Density of coudeuscd 
bydrogi-n. 


Palladiiini 


0. f'A to 0. -"(T-J 


Pa Had ill in and })iatiuiiiii 


7401 to 0. 7."4.") 


Palladiuiu au<i ■'old 


0.711 to 0.71.'. 


Pallatliiim aiui silver . 


0. 7'27 to 0. 71"i 







Whether the absorption of hydrogen by palhxdium, alloyed or not with 
another metal, was large or small, the density of the occluded hydro- 
gen was found to be substantially the same. That the excessive re- 
traction of the palladium wire on the discharge of its absorbed Isydro- 
gen is not a mere effect of heat was shown by the charged wire under- 
going a similar retraction when discharged electrolytically instead of by 
ignition hi vacuo; and also by the original wire not undergoing any 
sensible retraction as a result of annealing. That the retraction is 
merely in length was shown by the absence of any difference in si)eciiic 
gravity between the original and the discharged wire. Very curiously, 
the shortening of the wire, b,y successive chargings and dischargings 
of hydrogen, would seem to be interminable. Thus the following ex- 
pansions of a particular wire, caused by variable charges of hydrogen, 
were followed, on expelling the hydrogen, by the contractions recorded 
in the other column : 



Fir.st fxi)eiiinciit.. 
Si'fond fxpeiimeut 
Third cxpcrinicnt . 
Foiiith expei'iuieiit 



EL)n2,'atioa in 
uullimcters. 



9.77 
5.765 
2. 30 
3.482 



Retraction iu 
luilliuH'rer.s. 



'J. 7(1 

(;.'jo 
:!. 14 

4. 'Jo 



23. <J9 



The i)alladinm wire, which originally measured 009. 144 millimeters, 
thus suffered, by four successive chargings and dischargings of hydro- 
gen, an ultimate contraction of 23.99 millimeters, or a reduction of its 
original length to the extent of nearly 4 per cent., each increnu'ut of 
contraction below the original length usually exceeding the previous in- 
crement of elongation above the original length of the wire. The alter- 
nate expansion and contraction of palladinm by its occlusion and evo- 
lution of hydrogen is ingeniously shown by a contrivance of 3Ir. 
Roberts, in which a slip of palladium-foil, varnished on one side, is made 
to curl and uncurl itself, as it becomes alternately the lu'gative and 
positive electrode of a battery, or is alternately charged and discharged 
of hydrogen on its free surfa(;e. 

That hydrogen is the vapor of a highly volatile metal has frcM^uently 
been maintained on chemical grounds ; and from a consideration of the 
physical properties of his hydrogenized i>alladium, Mr. Graham was led 



216 PROFESSOR THOMAS GRAHAM's SCIENTIFIC WORK. 

to regard it as a true alloy of palladiuin with hydrogen, or rather hydro- 
geiiium, in which the volatility of the latter metal was restrained by 
the fixity of the former, and of which the metallic aspect was equally 
due to both of its constituents. Although, indeed, the occlusion of up- 
ward of 900 times its volume of hydrogen was found to lower the 
tenacity and electric conductivity of palladium appreciably, still the 
hydrogenized i)alladium remaiued possessed of a most characteristically 
metallic tenacity and conductivity. Thus, the tenacity of the original 
wire being taken as 100, the tenacity of the fully charged wire was 
found to be 81.29 ; and the electric conductivity' of the original wire 
being 8.10, that of the hydrogenized wire was found to be 5.99. In fur- 
ther support of the conclusion arrived at by Mr. Graham, as to the me- 
tallic condition of the hydrogen occluded in palladium, he adduced his 
singular discovery of its being possessed of magnetic properties, more 
decided than those of palladium itself, a metal which Mr. Faraday had 
shown to be "feebly but truly magnetic." Operating with an electro- 
magnet of very moderate strength, Mr. Graham found that while an ob- 
loug fragment of electrolyticall}^ deposited palladium was deflected from 
the equatorial by 10° only, the same fragment of metal, charged with 
601.0 times its volume of hydrogen, was deflected through 48°. Thus 
did 3Ir. Graham supplement the idea of hydrogen as an invisible incon- 
densable gas, by the idea of hydrogen as an opaque, lustrous, white 
metal, having a specific gravity between 0.7 and 0.8, a well-marked 
tenacity and conductivity, and a very decided magnetism. 



ox THE RELATIOX OF THE PHYSICAL SCIENCES TO SCIENCE IN GENERAL. 



Delivered before the University of IleideUierg, hi/ D>: Herman HehnhoUz. 



[Trauslatod for tho Smithsonian Institution, by Prof. C. F. KuoEll.] 

Our university renews, on the annual return of this day, her grateful re- 
nunnbrances of Charles Frederic, the enlightened prince who, at a time 
when the whole established order of Europe was revolutionized, labored 
most zealously and efiBciently to improve the well-being and facilitate the 
mental development of his people, and who clearly perceived that the 
revival of this university would be one of the principal means for the 
attainment of his benevolent object. Since it is my duty on this occa- 
sion to speak of our whole university as its representative, it is proper 
to review the connection between the sciences and their study in gen- 
eral, as far as may be possible, from the circumscribed point of view of 
an individual observer. 

It would seem indeed, to-day, as if the mutual relations of all sciences, 
in virtue of which we unite them under the name of a univcrsitas Utter- 
arum, had become looser than ever before. We see the scholars of our 
times absorbed in a study of details of such immense magnitude that 
even the most industrious cannot hope to master more than a small 
portion of modern science. The linguist of the last three centuries 
found sufficient occupation in the study of Greek and Latin, and it was 
only for immediate practical purposes that a few modern languages 
were learned. Now, covqMrative 2)hilology has set for itself no less a task 
than to sttidy all the languages of the human race, in order to deduce 
from them the laws of the formation of language itself, and its votaries 
have brought immense industry to bear upon this gigantic work. Even 
within classical philology they no longer confine themselves to the study 
of those writings which, by their artistic finish, the clearness of their 
thoughts, or the importance of their contents, have become the models 
of the poetry and prose of all times ; the philologists are aware that 
every lost fragment of an ancient writer, every remark of a pedantic 
grammarian or of a Byzantine court-poet, every broken tomb-stone of a 
Eoman official that is found in some remote corner of Hungary, Spain, 
or Africa, may contain some information or proof of importance in its 
proper jilace, and hence a large number of scholars are occupied in the 
gigantic task of collecting and cataloguing all remnants of classic anti- 
quity so that they may be ready for use. Add to this the study of his- 
torical sources, the examination of parchments and papers accumulated 
in states and towns, the collection of notes scattered through me- 



218 ON THE KELATIOX OF THE 

moirs, correspoudouces, and biographies, and the deciphering of the 
hieroglyphics and cuueiforiu iuscriptious ; add again to these the coutiu- 
ually and rapidly augmenting catalogues oi minerals^ plants, and animals, 
living and antediluvian, and there will be unfolded before our eyes a 
mass of scientific material sufficient to make us giddy. In all these 
sciences, researches are pushed forward constantly in proi^ortiou to the 
improvement of our means of observation, and there is no perceptible 
limit. The zoologist of the last century was generally satisfied with de- 
scribing the teeth, fur, formation of the feet and other external charac- 
teristics of an animal. The anatomist, on the other hand, described the 
anatomy of man alone, as far as he could gain a knowledge of it by 
means of the knife, the saw, the chisel, or, i)erhaps, of injections into 
the tissues. The study of human anatomy was even then considered 
au extremely extensive and difficult branch of science. To-day we are no 
longer content with what is so-called descriptive liuman anatomy, which, 
although incorrectly, is considered as exhausted, but comparatire anat- 
omy, i. c, the anatomy of all animals, and miscroscopic anatomy, both 
sciences of unlimited scope, have been added and absorb the interest of 
the oi)server. 

The four elements of antiquity and of mediaeval alchemy have swelled 
to sixty-four* in our modern chemistry ; the last three have been discov- 
ered according to a method originating in our university, which leads us 
to expect other similar discoveries. Not only, however, has the number 
of the elements increased extraordinarilj', but the methods for producing 
complex compounds have been so greatly improved, that what is so-called 
onianic chemistry, which cominises only the combinations of carbon with 
hydrogen, oxygen, nitrogen, and a few other elements, has already be- 
come a separate science. 

" As many as the stars in heaven," used to be the natural expression 
for a number which exceeds all limits of our comprehension. Pliny 
considered it an undertaking bordering on arrogance when Hipparchus 
comnu^nced to number the stars and determine their positions. Never- 
theless, the catalogues of stars up to the seventeenth century, which 
were made out without the use of telescopes, contained only from 1,000 
to 1,500 stars of the first to the third magnitude. At i)resent they are 
engaged at the different observatories in extending these catalogues 
down to the tenth magnitude, which will make a sum total of more than 
200,000 fixed stars in the whole heavens; and these are all to be noted 
down, measured, and their places determined. The immediate conse- 
quence of these observations has been the discovery of many new planets. 
Of these only six were known in 1781, while at present we know seventy- 
five.t When we pass in review^ this gigantic activity in all branches of 

* With Indium, recently discovered, sixty-live. 

t lu the latter jiart of November, 18()4, the eighty-second of tlie asteroids, Alcineue, 
■was discovered. Add to this the eight large planets, and the whole number of jiluuets 
known will amount to ninety. [1871, I'JO.] • 



PHYSICAL SCIENCES TO SCIENCE IN GENERAL. 219 

science, tlie rash projects of man arc, indeed, apt to astonisli and fii^liteu 
us, like tlie chorns in Antigone, wlien it exclaims, 

" Much is surijrisiug, but uonglit iiioic surprising than man."' 
Wbo can overlook the whole, keep the connecting threads in his hand 
and find his way throngh the labyrinth. The immediate and natural 
consequence is that everj^ investigator is forced to choose a field of 
labor constantl.5^ becoming more circumscribed, and to confine himself 
to a bnt imperfect acquaintance with the rest. We are now inclined to 
laugh when we hear that in the seventeenth century Kepler was called 
to Griitz to discharge the duties of the chair of mathematics and moral 
science, or that at the beginning of the eighteenth century Boerhave 
held at the same time the professorshi[>s of botany, chemistry, and clin- 
ical medicine, which, of course, included also pharmacy. Now, wc need 
at least four and in many universities even seven or eight teachers for 
all these branches. The same is the case in other departments of 
science. 

I have the more reason to consider the connection between the dilfer- 
eut sciences here, because I confine myself to the circle of natural sciences, 
which have latterly been accused of pursuing a course isolated from other 
sciences, correlated through mutual philological and historical studies, 
and of having become estranged from them. This indeed has long- 
been perceptible, and seems to have been developed, or rather brought 
to notice, under the inlluence of the philosophy of Ilegel. At the end of the 
last century, under the philosophy of Kant, such a separation had not 
been pronounced. His philosophy was on equal footing with the nat- 
ural sciences, as KanVs own labors in natural science demonstrate, 
especially his cosmogonic hypotheses, based on Newton's law of gravi- 
tation, which was later generally received under the name of the theory 
of Laplace. Kant's critical philosophy was calculated only to investigate 
the sources and basis of our knowledge, and to create a standard for the 
intellectual labors of the different sciences. A law found a j^yiori by 
pure thought, could, according to his doctrine, become onl^^ a rule for a 
method of thinking, and could not have any positive or real significance. 
The i)hilosophy of identity was bolder. It proceeded from the hypothesis 
that the real world, that nature, and the life of man, were the result of the 
thoughts of a creative mind, which mind was similar to that of man. 
Accordingly, the human mind might undertake, even without the guid- 
ance of external experience, to think over again the thoughts of the 
Creator, and to find them again, through its own inner activity. In this 
sense the philosophy of identity endeavored to construct a i^-iori the 
material results of the other sciences. This might succeed more or less 
easily with respect to religion, law, political economy, language, art, 
history, and, in short, in all sciences which are developed cliielly from a 
l^sychological basis, and which are therefore classified under the name 
of mental sciences. The state, the church, art and language, have for 
their object the satisfaction of certain spiritual and mental wants of 



220 ON THE EELATION OF THE 

man. Altliongh exterual obstacles, the forces of nature, accident, 
rivalry of other men, frequently exert a disturbing influence, the endeav- 
ors of a human mind perseveringly pursuing its object must, in the end, 
preponderate and triumi^h over planless hinderauces. Under these cir- 
cumstances it would not be impossible to lay out a priori the course of 
development of mankind with regard to the above relations, especially 
when the philosopher has already' considerable empirical material at his 
command with which he can combine his abstractions. Mcgel was ma- 
terially aided in his attempts to solve this question by the deep philo- 
sophical insight into history and science which the i)hilosopliers and 
poets of the immediately preceding time had gathered, and which he 
needed only to arrange and combine to produce a system full of astonish- 
ing discoveries. In this manner he succeeded in gaining the enthusias- 
tic applause of the majority of the scholars of his time, and in exciting 
fantastical hopes for the solution of the profoundest mysteries of 
human life ; the latter all the more because his system was veiled in 
curiously abstract language, and was, perhaps, really understood and 
appreciated only by a small number of his admirers. 

The fact that the construction of the principal results of the mental 
sciences was more or less successful, was, however, no proof of the cor- 
rectness of the hypothesis of identity from which HcgeVs philosophy pro- 
ceeded. On the contrary, the facts of nature would have been the 
means of furnishing decisive proof. It was a matter of course that 
traces of the activity of the human mind and of its stages of develop- 
ment must be found in the mental sciences. If nature reflected the re- 
sult of the thoughts of a similar creative mind, the comparatively sim- 
l)ler forms and processes of nature could the more easily be arranged 
into systems. But it was just at this point that the philosophy of iden- 
tity failed, we may say, completely. The natural philosophy of Hegel, 
to naturalists at least, appeared absolutely senseless. Among the many 
excellent naturalists of that time there was not a single one who could 
accept his ideas. But it was of the greatest importance to IJegel to 
obtain the same appreciation here that he had found so abundantly in 
the other sciences. He waged an unnsually passionate and bitter contro- 
versy, directed especially against Newton, the first and greatest repre- 
sentative of scientific research. He taxed the naturalists with narrow- 
mindedness, and they in their turn accused their opponent of absurdi- 
ties. The naturalists began to lay stress upon the assertion that their 
labors had been free from all philosophical infiuences, and soon many of 
them, including even men of great eminence, condemned all pliilosophj", 
not only as useless, but even as injurious vagaries. We cannot deny 
that along with the unjust claims of the philosophy of Hegel, to subor- 
dinate the other sciences, its just claims, to criticise the sources of 
knowledge and determine a standard for intellectual labors, were thrown 
overboard. 

In the mental sciences the effect was different, although it finally led 



PHYSICAL SCIENCES TO SCIENCE IN GENERAL. 221 

to tbe same result. In all braucbes of science relating to religion, the 
state, law, art, and language, enthusiastic followers of Hcijd arose, 
each of whom sought to reform their branch according to his doctrine 
and to gather rapidly in a speculative way the fruits, which until then 
could only be obtained by means of slow and tedious labor. Thus it 
was for a time that a sharp and well-defined antagonism existed between 
the physical sciences on the one side and the mental sciences on tlie 
other, and not infrequently was it denied that the former possessed the 
characteristics of a science at all. 

The bitterness which existed between the two did not, however, last 
long. The physical sciences proved to every one, by a rapid series of 
brilliant discoveries and applications, that they contained a healthy 
germ of unusual productiveness. It was impossible not to esteem and 
appreciate them. In the other departments of science, conscientious in- 
vestigators of facts soon raised objections against the presumptous Ica- 
rus-tlight of speculation. That these philosophical systems produced a 
beneficial effect is however unmistakable ; we cannot deny that siuce 
the ai^pearance of the works of Hegel and Schelllng, the attention of 
investigators of the different branches of mental sciences has been 
directed more pointedly and more perseveringly to their intellectual im- 
port and scope than in preceding times, and that therefoi;e the results of 
that philosophy have not been entirely in vain. 

In a measure as the empirical investigation of facts became more 
prominent in the other sciences, the contrast between them and the 
physical sciences was diminished. Although this contrast had been 
exaggerated through the intluence of philosophy, we cannot deny that 
it is founded upon the nature of things, and that it will assert its claims. 
It lies partially in the kind of mental labor involved, and partially in the 
subjects of the sciences, as their names, physical and mental sciences, 
indicate. The physicist will find some difficulty in explaining a compli- 
cated process of nature to a philologist or a lawyer. It would require 
on their part abstractions from the appearance of the senses and dex- 
terity in the use of geometrical and mechanical aids, in which they could 
not easily follow him. Artists and theologians, on the other hand, would 
perhaps find the naturalist too much inclined to mechanical and mate- 
rial exphinations, which would seem trivial to them, and which might 
tend to suppress the warmth of their feeling and their enthusiasm. The 
philologist and the historian, with whom the lawyer and the theologian 
are intimately associated by their common philological and historical 
studies, will find the physicist surprisingly indifferent to literary treas- 
ures, more indifferent perhaps than is proper and good for the advance 
of his own science. It cannot be denied, finally, that the mental sciences 
have to do directly with the dearest interests of the human mind, and 
with its creations in the world, while the physical sciences work with 
external matter, to which we may be indifferent, but we cannot neglect 



222 ON THE RELATION OF THE 

because of their great practical utility, altbougli they may not seem to 
Lave any immediate effect in developing the mind. 

Since the sciences have been separated iuto so many divisions and 
subdivisions, since very appreciable contrasts have been developed 
among- them, and since no one man can comprehend the whole, or even 
a considerable part of the whole, is there any nse in keeping them to- 
gether in the same institution ? Is the union of the four faculties in one 
university only a remnant of the usages of the middle ages ? It has been 
alleged that many external advantages are gained by sending students 
of medicine to the hospitals of large cities, students of natural sciences 
to polytechnic schools, and by erecting special seminaries and schools 
for theologians and lawyers. Let us hope that our German universities 
may long be preserved from the influence of such an idea ! That woulp 
indeed tear asunder the connection between the different sciences, a 
connection eminently important to scientific labor, and to the improve- 
ment of the material products of that labor, as will be seen on a brief 
consideration of the question. 

First, as regards their formal relations, I would say that the union of 
the different sciences is necessary to maintain a healthy equilibrium of 
the mental i^owers. Every science exercises certain faculties of the 
mind, and strengthens them by continual practice. But all one-sided 
development has its dangers ; it is detrimental to those faculties which 
are less exercised, it limits our view of the whole, and leads us to over- 
estimate our own labors. Ue who perceives that he can perform a cer- 
tain kind of mental labor much better than other men, is too apt to 
forget how many other things there are in which they surpass him. 
Over-estimation of self — let no votary of science forget it — is the great- 
est and worst enemy of all scientific labors. How many with great 
talents have not, forgotten that criticism of self, so difficult and yet so 
necessary to the vScholar, or have become discouraged and lax in their 
labors, because they considered dry, persevering work unwortJiy of 
tlicm, and were bent only on producing brilliant combinations and rev- 
olutionizing discoveries! Uow many such men have not concluded a 
melancholy life in an embittered and misanthropical state of mind, be- 
cause they failed to obtain that appreciation from their fellow-men 
which is gained only by work and success, and not by the self compla- 
cencj^ of genius alone. The more isolated we are, the more we are 
exposed to this danger; while, on the other hand, nothing is more con- 
ducive to efficient mental labor than to be obliged to exert all our powers 
to gain the appreciation of men whom we ourselves are constrained to 
api)reciate. 

VA^^hen we compare the kinds of mental activity required in different 
branches of science, we shall find certain differences due to the sciences 
themselves, although we cannot deny that every man of great talent 
has a special individual tendency which fits him for his special branch. 
It is only necessary to compare the works of two investigators in inti- 



PHYSICAL SCIENCES TO SCIENCE IN GENERAL. 223 

niately related branches, to find tliat the ijreater the men, the more 
decided is their mental individuality, and the less one would be able to 
perform the works of the other. To-day we cannot, of course, go further 
than to characterize the most general differences of intellectual work in 
the ditYerent branches of science. 

I have reminded you of the gigantic extent of the materials of our 
sciences. It is clear that the greater their extent, the more neces- 
sary it is to obtain a better and more accurate organization and arrange- 
ment, in order not to become hopelessly lost in the labyrinth of learning. 
The better the order and system, the greater may the accumulation of 
details become without injuring the connection. Our time becomes all 
the more profitable in working out details, because our i)redecessors 
have tauglit ns the organization of science. 

This organization consists, in the first jilace, in an external mechan- 
ical arrangement, as found in our catalogues, lexicons, registers, indexes, 
literary reviews, yearly reports, digests of laws, systems of natural 
history, etc. By the aid of these we gain only because all knowledge which 
it is not necessary to keep constantly in mind can be found at any mo- 
ment by those who need it. 

By means of a good lexicon a student of a preparatory school can 
accomplish much in the study of the classics that uuist have proved 
difficult to ^rrt.sm«s, in spite of life-long reading. Works of this kind 
are, as it were, the scientific capital of mankind, with the interest of 
which the business is carried on. We might compare them to cajntal 
invested in lands. Like the earth, of which the lands are composed, the 
knowledge contained in these catalogues, lexicons, and indexes looks 
little inviting, and the ignorant cannot appr«4ciate the labor and expense 
lavished on these acres; the work of the plowman seems excessively 
difficult, laborious, and tedious. Although, however, the work of the 
lexicographer or of the compiler of systems of natural history requires 
as much perseverance and diligence as that of the plowman, it nuist not 
be believed that it is of a subordinate or secondary nature, or that it is 
as dry and mechanical as it looks afterward, when the catalogue lies 
printed before us. Every single lact nuist be discovered by attentive 
observation ; it must afterward be verified and comi)arrd, and the im- 
portant must be separated from the unimportant. None can do this 
but those who have a clear understanding of the object of the collection 
and of the intellectual import of the science and its methods; and for 
such men every single fact will be of peculiar interest in its iclations to 
the whole science. Otherwise such work would be the most intolerable 
drudgery that could be imagined. That the progressive development 
of science has its influence on these works also is seen in the fact that 
new lexicons, new^ systems of natural history, new digests of laws, new 
catalogues of stars, are constantly found necessarj^ They testify to the 
l)rogress of the methods and the organization of knowledge. 

But our knowledge must not remain idle in the form of catalogues ; 



224 ON THE RELATION OF THE 

for tlie fact that we must have it about us in this form, black upon 
white, proves that we have not mastered it intellectually. It is not suf- 
ficient to be cognizant of facts ; science results only fi?om u knowledge 
of their laws and causes. The logical elaboration of these facts consists 
in collecting together those which are similar under one common head. 
Thus are formed generic ideas, which take their place in our thinking. 
We call them generic ideas when they comprise a number of existing 
things, and laws when they comprise a series of i)henomena or processes. 
When I have discovered that all the mammalia, i. {?., all warm-blooded 
animals which bring forth living young, breathe by means of lungs, 
have two chambers of the heart and at least three auricular bones, I need 
no longer remember these peculiarities separately for the ape, the horse, 
the dog, or the whale. The general rule includes an immense number of 
individual instances and represents them in the memory. The law of the 
refraction of light does not only include all cases where rays fall, at 
ditferent angles, upon a smooth surface of water and show the result, 
but all cases where rays of any color strike a surface of any kind of any 
transparent substance. This law, therefore, includes such an endless 
number of cases that it would have been absolutely impossible to retain 
them all singly in the memory. Moreover, this law does not only in- 
clude those cases which we or others have already observed, but we do 
not hesitate to apply it to new cases, which have not yet been recog- 
nized, to predict the effect of the refraction of light, and our expecta- 
tions will not be disappointed. In the same manner, if we should find 
an unknown mammal, that has never been anatomically dissected, we 
might conclude almost with certainty that it had lungs, two heart- 
chambers, and three or more auricular bones. 

While we thus generalize the facts of our experience into classes and 
laws, we not only reduce our knowledge to a form in which it is more 
easily used and remembered, but we actually increase it, since we can 
extend the rules and laws thus found to cases which may come to our 
notice in future. 

In the above examples the generalization of facts presents no diffi- 
culty, and the whole process is obvious. But in complicated cases we 
do not succeed so easily in separating the similar from the dissimilar, and 
in forming clear, sharply defined ideas. Suppose we know a man to be 
ambitious ; we may predict, with tolerable certainty, that, if this man 
be placed in certain conditions, he will follow the promptings of his 
ambition and choose a certain course of action. But we can neither 
define with certainty how an ambitious man is to be recognized, nor 
how his ambition can be estimated, nor can we ascertain how great it 
must be to lead him, under certain circumstances, to adopt a certain 
line of action. We compare the observed actions of one man with those 
of other men who have acted similarly in similar cases, and draw our 
conclusion as to the result of future actions, without having either our 
major or oiu' minor premise clearly defined, and even without being 



PHYSICAL SCIENCES TO SCIENCE IN GENERAL. 225 

aware tliat our predictions are founded on the described comparison. 
Our opinion, in such cases, proceeds from a certain psychological fact 
and not from a conscious argument, although, in the main, the mental 
l^rocess was the same as in the instance where we predicted that the 
newly discovered mammal would have lungs. 

The latter kind of induction, which cannot be carried out to the 
complete form of a logical syllogism nor to the establishment of general 
laws, plays a very great part in the lives of men. The whole development 
of our sensations is based upon it, as can be proven by an investigation of 
illusions. When, e. g., the nerves of our eye are disturbed by a blow, we 
have a sensation of light, because, during our whole life, the optic nerve 
had been affected only by light, and we had been accustomed to identify 
the sensation of the optic nerve with the action of light, a habit which, 
in the present case, leads us to an incorrect conclusion. The same kind 
of induction plays the i)rincipal part in psychological processes, on ac- 
count of the extreme complexity of the influences which determine the 
formation of a man's character or momentary state of mind. In fact, 
by asserting that we are free agents, i. e., that we have the power of 
acting according to our own free will and choice, without being forced 
by a strict, inevitable law, we deny the possibility of referring ba(;k at 
least a part of the manifestations of our soul to an inflexible law. 

We might call this kind of induction o/'fi.sf/c f;K7?/c/io«, in contradis- 
tinction to logical induction, which produces sharply defined, general 
conclusions; because it is pre-eminently apparent in the finest \Yorks of 
art. It is an essential part of artistic talent to be able to reproduce 
the external characteristics of a character or state of mind by means of 
words, forms, colors, or sounds, and to comprehend instinctively the 
operations of the soul without being guided by any tangible rule. On 
the contrary, wherever we become aware that the artist has consciously 
worked after general rules and abstractions, we find his production 
commonplace and our admiration ceases immediately. The works of 
great artists, however, depict to us characters and operations of the 
mind with such vivacity, such profusion of individual traits, and such 
convincing truthfulness, that they seem superior to real life, because 
no disturbing influences have entered. 

When we examine the sciences with regard to themanner in which con- 
clusions must be drawn in each, we are struck ])y a fundamental diifer- 
ence between the natural and the mental sciences. In the natural 
sciences, induction may usually be continued until we obtain decided 
general rules and laws, while in the mental sciences deductions from 
psychological tact preponderate. So in the historical sciences, the 
sources of facts must first be verified, and, when the facts are estab- 
lished, the more difficult and more important labor begins of investi- 
gating the complicated and various motives of peoples and individuals. 
Both must be done chiefly through psychological consideration. The 
psychological sciences, in so far as they have to do with the explanation 
15 s 71 



226 ON THE RELATION OF THE 

and emeiKlatioii of tlie tests trausmitted to us, and witli the history of 
literature and art, require an intuitive i)erception of the sense of an 
author and of the secondary meaning of his words ; they require a correct 
appreciation, both of the individuality of the author and of the genius 
of the hmguage in which he wrote. All these are instances of artistic 
and not of logical induction. We can ouly form our judgment, if a 
large number of similar facts is ready in tbe memory to be quickly 
brought into relation with the question before us. One of the first 
requirements for this kind of studies is, therefore, a reliable and ready 
memory. Indeed, many celebrated historians and philologists have ex- 
cited the astonishment of their contemporaries by the power of their 
memories. Of course, the mere memory would not suffice without the fac- 
ulty of quickly perceiving analogies, or without a finely developed appre- 
ciation of human emotions ; and this latter requisite cannot, perhaps, be 
acquired without a certain warmth of feeling or an interest in observing 
the emotions of others. While our intercourse with our fellow-men in 
every-day life must furnish the basis for these psychological reflections, 
the study of history and art serves to sui)plement and enrich them, since 
both show us men acting under unusual circumstances, and teach uS 
the whole extent of the powers that lie slumbering in our bosoms. 

The above-mentioned sciences, with the exception of grammar^ gen- 
erally do not succeed in obtaining strict universal laws. The laws of 
grammar are established by the human will, although it may have been 
unconsciously and without a premeditated plan, but developing as the 
need of them was felt. They appear, therefore, to the learner of the 
language as laws established by extraneous authority. 

Intimately connected with philology are theology and jurisprurlence, 
whose preparatory and auxiliary studies in fact belong to the circle of 
philological sciences. The general laws, which we find in both, are also 
such as have been established by extraneous authority for our belief 
and mode of action as regarded from a moral or judicial point of view, 
and not laws like those of nature, Miiich state the generalization of a 
mass of facts. Like the application of a law of nature, however, to a 
particular case, the ai)plication of a grammatical, legal, moral, or dogmat- 
ical rule, is made in the form of a conscious logical syllogism. The 
rule forms the major premise, and the minor ju'cmise must show 
whether the case in point fulfills the requirements of the rule. The 
solution of this latter process, as well in grammatical analysis for 
explaining the sense of a sentence as in a legal consideration of the 
truth of facts, the intentions of agents or the sense of their writings 
mustajrain be of a psychological nature. We cannot deny, however, 
that both the syntax of civilized languages and the system of our juris- 
prudence, perfected by a practice of more than 2,000 years, have at- 
tained so high a degree of logical finish and consistency that cases not 
coming clearly under their laws are exceptional. Of course, there will 
always be such cases, because human laws can never hope to become as 



PHYSICAL SCIENCES TO SCIENCE IN CxENERAL. 227 

perfect and compreliensive as the laws of nature. In sucli cases we 
have no other alternative but to divine the intention of the law-giver 
from the analogy of the laws for similar cases. 

Grammatical and legal studies have certain advantages for cultivat- 
ing- the mind, because they uniformly exercise its different faculties. 
The education of the modern Europeans is, for this reason, based 
especially upon the grammatical study of foreign languages. The 
mother tongue and foreign languages, that are learned by practice alone, 
do not exercise logical thought, althougii they may teach us artistic 
beauty of expression. The two classical languages, Greek and Latin, 
in common with most ancient and original languages, have the advantage 
of an extremely artistic and logical development, and of full and dis- 
tinct inflections, which clearly indicate the grammatical relation of 
words and sentences. By long use languages become worn down, 
grammatical forms are sacriticed for practical brevity and rapidity of 
utterance, and the resultis greater indistinctness. This is clearly seen by 
comparing the modern European languages with the Latin. The wearing 
down of inflections has proceeded furthest in English. This seems to 
me to be the reason why modern languages are less fit for educational 
l)urposes than the ancient. 

As grammar is best adapted to the education of youth, so are jurid- 
ical studies a means of culture for a maturer age, even where they are 
not immediately necessary for practical use. 

The extreme opposite of the philological and historical sciences, as 
far as the kind of intellectual labor involved is concerned, is found in 
the natural sciences. I do not mean to deny that, in many branches of 
these sciences, an instinctive perception of analogies and a certain 
artistic tact play a conspicuous part. In natural history it is, on the 
contrary, left entirely to this tact, without a clearly definable rule, to 
determine what characteristics of species are important or unimportant 
for purposes of classification, and what divisions of the animal or vege- 
table kingdom are more natural than others. It is furthermore signifi- 
cant that Goethe^ i. e., an artist, has first suggested comparative ana- 
tomical investigations of the aimlogies of the corresponding organs of 
different animals, and also of the analogous metamorphosis of leaves 
in the vegetable kingdom, thus determining materially the direction 
which comparative anatomy has since taken. But even in these 
branches, where we have to do with the effects of vital processes, as yet 
not understood, we can generally form comprehensive ideas and dis- 
cover clear laws more easily than in cases where our judgment depends 
upon an analysis of the actions of the soul. The peculiar scientific 
character of the natural sciences appears most sharply defined in the 
experimental and mathematical branches, especially in pure mathe- 
matics. 

The essential difference between these sciences, in my opinion, con- 
sists in that it is comparatively easy in the latter to unite individual 



228 ON THE EELATION OF THE 

cases which have come under our observation or experience, under gen- 
eral laws of absolute correctness and extensive application, while in the 
former such generalization usually presents insurmountable difiSculties. 
Indeed, in mathematics, the general laws called axioms are so few, so 
comprehensive, and so evident that they require no i)roof. The whole 
of the pure mathematics is developed out of the following three axioms : 

" Two magnitudes equal to a third are equal to each other. 

'' Equals added to equals produce equals. 

" Unequals added to equals produce unequals." 

The axioms of geometry and of theoretical mechanics are not more 
numerous. These sciences are developed out of these few axioms by 
employing every obtained conclusion in working out subsequent cases. 
Arithmetic is not confined to the addition of a finite number of magni- 
tudes, but teaches in higher analysis even to add an infinite number of 
magnitudes, which increase or decrease in value according to the most 
varying laws ; in other words, to solve i)roblems which could never be 
done by direct methods. Here we see the conscious logical operation of 
our mind in its purest and most perfect form ; here we learn the whole 
labor and great care with which it must proceed, the accuracy necessary 
to determine the full value of discovered general laws, the difficulty of 
forming and understanding abstract ideas ; but we also learn at the 
same time to gain confidence in the certainty, scope, and fruitfiilness of 
such mental labors. 

"The latter becomes still more obvious in applied mathematical sciences, 
especially in mathematical physics, to which must also be added phys- 
ical astronomy. After Newton had once recognized, from the mechan- 
ical analysis of the motions of planets, that between all ponderable matter 
there exists an attraction, inversely proportional to the square of the dis- 
tance, this simple law was sufficient for calculating with the greatest pre- 
cision all the motions of the iilanets to the remotest periods of past or 
future time, if we only have the place, velocity, and mass of the various 
bodies of our system given for some point of time. We even recognize 
the effects of the same force iu^the motions of double stars, whose dis- 
tance from us is so great that their light is years in reaching us, and in 
those whose distances have never been successfully measured. 

This discovery of the law of gravitation and of its consequences is 
the most wonderful effort of logical power of which the human mind has 
ever been capable. I do not assert that no men possessing powers of 
logical abstraction as great or greater than those of Newton or (^ the 
other astronomers, who led the way to or developed his discovery, have 
ever lived ; but that there has never been a better opportunity tlian that 
of solving the confused motions of the planets, which had before served 
only to foster a belief in astrology among the uneducated, and which 
were now brought under a law that was able to account for the slight- 
est details of their motions. 
Other branches of physics have also been d^eloped according to the 



PHYSICAL SCIENCES TO SCIENCE IN GENERAL. 229 

above great model, especially optics, electricity, and niaguetisin. Tbe ex- 
perimental sciences have the advantage over the rest, tliat they can at 
will vary the conditions under which a result takes place, and may thus 
confine themselves to the observation of comparatively few character- 
istic cases in order to determine the law. Its correctness must, of 
course, be verified in more complicated cases. Thus the physical sciences 
have advanced with comparative ra[)idity after the correct methods had 
once been determined. They have not only enabled us to look back into 
the distant past when the cosmical nebulae were consolidated to stars 
and became incandescent by the power of their aggregation ; not oidy 
to investigate the chemical constituents of the solar atmosphere — the 
chemistry of the most distant fixed stars will probably soon become 
known also* — but they have taught us to avail ourselves of the forces 
of nature for our own benefit. 

From what has been said, it is sufficiently evident how different the 
mental labor is in the two classes of sciences. The mathematician needs 
no memory at all for individual facts, and the physicist but little. Sup- 
positions based on the recollection of similar cases may bo useful in 
indicating the right direction, but they become valuable only when they 
have led to a precise and marked law. There is no doubt that we have 
to do in nature with unvarying laws. We must, therefore, work on 
until we have discovered them. We must not rest until we have accom- 
plished that; for it is then only that our knowledge obtains its triumphs 
over time and space, and over the forces of nature. 

The solid work of conscious argument requires great perseverance and 
care ; it is generally slow, and is but rarely advanced by flashes of 
genius. We find in it little of that readiness with which the memory of 
the historian or philologer recalls past experiences. It is, indeed, the 
essential condition of methodical progress of thought that the mind 
must remain concentrated upon one point, undisturbed by side issues, 
by wishes or hopes, and proceed only according to its own will and 
determination. The celebrated logician, Stuart Mill, asserts as his con- 
viction that the inductive sciences have done more in modern times for 
the progress of logical methods than philosophy itself. One great cause 
of this may be, that in no department of knowledge is a mistake of 
reasoning detected so easily by the erroneousness of the result as in 
these sciences, where we can most readily compare the results of our 
reflsoning directly with the actual facts. 

Although I have asserted that the natural sciences, and especially 
their mathematical branches, have come nearer the accomplishment of 
their scientific mission than the other sciences, I do not wish to be charged 
with underrating the latter. If the natural sciences hav^e attained 

* Most interesting discoveries have already been made. They are found in the work 
of W. Huggins and W. A. Miller, published April, 1804, in which the analysis of Alde- 
haran and a Orion is given, and proof furnished that certain nebuhe are incandescen 
globes of gas. 



230 ON THE RELATION OF THE 

greater perfection iu their scientific form, the mental sciences have the 
advantage that they have treated a richer subject, and one that is of 
more intimate interest to man, namely, the human mind itself, with its 
various desires and operations. They have the higher and more difii- 
cult task ; but it is clear that the example of those branches of kuowledge 
which have advanced further by reason of their easier subject-matter, 
must not be lost to them. They may learn methods from them and 
derive encouragement from the abundant harvest of their results. I 
believe, indeed, that our times have already learned much from the 
natural sciences. The great respect for facts and accurate collections, 
a certain distrust of appearances, the striving after the discovery of 
unvarying laws which distinguish our times from former time, seem to 
indicate such an influence. 

How far mathematical studies, being the representatives of conscious 
logical thought, should obtain a greater influence in our educational 
systems, I will not here consider. That is mainly a question of time. 
As science becomes more extended, system and organization must be 
improved, and students will And themselves obliged to pass through a 
severer course of thinking than grammar is able to afford. What I 
have particularly noticed in my own experience with students who 
pass from our grammar-schools to scientific and medical studies, is a 
certain laxness in the application of strict universal laws. The gram- 
matical rules to which they were accustomed are usually furnished with 
long lists of exceptions ; the students are, therefore, not used to trusting 
the certainty of the legitimate consequence of a general law without 
reserve. Secondly, I find them too much inclined to seek authorities 
where they might be able to form an opinion of their own. In phi- 
lological studies, the scholar who can rarely overlook the whole field, 
and who frequently must depend upon an aesthetic perception of 
elegance of expression and of the genius of the language which require 
long culture, will, even by the best teachers, be referred to authorities. 
Both errors proceed from a certain sluggishness and an uncertainty of 
thinking, which will disqualify the student for later scientific studies. 
Mathematical studies are certainly the best remedy for both ; in them 
there is absolute certainty of inference, and there is no authority but 
our own reason. 

So much for the mutually supplementing tendencies of the mental 
labors of different sciences. 

But the acquisition of knowledge is not the only object of man on 
earth. Although the sciences awaken and develop the most subtle 
powers of the human mind, yet he who studies only for the purpose of 
knowing, doys not fulfill his destiny on earth. We often see highly 
gifted men who are by some fortune or misfortune placed iu comfortable 
circumstances, without ambition or energy for action, drag out a tedious 
and unsatisfactory life, while they believe that they are carrying out 
the object of their existence by increasing their knowledge and devel- 



PHYSICAL SCIENCES TO SCIENCE IN GENERAL. 231 

oping their minds. Action alone ennobles a man's life, and his aim must 
therefore be either a practical application of his knowledge or an in- 
crease of science itself. The latter is also conducive to the progress of 
humanity, and this leads us to the consideration of the connection be- 
tween the subjects of the sciences themselves. 

Knowledge is power. No time demonstrates this more clearly than 
our own. We learn how to make the forces of nature, as found in the 
inorganic world, subservient to the needs of human life and the pur- 
poses of the human mind. The application of steam has incrwised the 
bodily power of man a thousand and even million fold ; weaving and 
spinning machines have relieved man of labor whose monotonous regu- 
larity served only to stultify the mind. The intercourse of m^n with its 
material and intellectual conse(|uences, has increased to a point which 
would never have been dreamed of when our parents were born. But 
it is not only by machines that human force is multiplied, and it is not 
only on cast-steel rifled cannon, and iron-clad vessels, or on supplies of 
provisions and money that the power of a nation depends, although 
these things have so unequivocally' asserted their influence, that even 
the proudest and most unyielding absolute governments of our time 
have been obliged to remove the shackles from industry and grant a 
political voice to the laboring classes. It is also the political and judi- 
cial organization of states, the moral discipline of individuals, which 
produces the preponderance of the civilized nations over the uncivilized, 
so that the latter are doomed to inevitable destruction if they cannot 
acquire civilization. Here everything acts reciprocally. Where there 
are no established laws, where the interests of the majority cannot as- 
sert themselves, there can be no development of national wealth and 
power. He alone can become a good soldier in whom a sense of honor 
and independence have been developed under just laws, and not the 
slave, who is subject to the whims of a capricious master. 

For this reason every nation, from motives of self-preservation alone 
and without considering more ideal requirements, has an interest in 
fost'ering not only the natural sciences and their technical applications, 
but also the political, legal, and moral sciences, with all their subserv- 
ient historical and philological branches. No nation, wishing to i^re- 
serve her independence and influence, can afford to remain behind. 
The civilized peoples of Europe are conscious of this. The public aid 
given to universities, schools, and scientitic institutions far exceeds all 
that was done in this respect in former times. We also can boast again 
this year of a liberal donation by our government.* I spoke in my in- 
troduction of the increasing division and organization of scientilic labor. 
In fact, men of science form a kind of organized army, endeavoring, for 
the good, and indeed mostly by the commission and at the expense of 
the whole nation, to promote such knowledge as tends to the increase 

* Means for erecting new buildings for scientific institutes, and smaller sums for hos- 
pitals and geological collections. 



232 ON THE RELATION OF THE 

of industry, wealth, tlie comforts of life, and to tlie improvement of the 
political organization and the moral development of her citizens. Of 
course, we must not ask for immediate, apparent benefit, as the unedu- 
cated are so apt to do. Everything that gives us information concern- 
ing the forces of nature or the powers of the human mind is valuable, 
and will ultimately prove useful, often when we least expect it. Who 
could have thought when Galvani touched the thighs of frogs with dif- 
ferent metals and saw them twitch, that eighty years later, Europe 
would be traversed by wires, carrying news with the rapidity of light- 
ning from Madrid to St. Petersburg by means of the same agency, 
whose first indications that anatomist observed? Electric currents in 
his and at first also in Volta's hands, were of the feeblest kind, and 
could only be perceived by the most delicate instruments. If their in- 
vestigation had then been abandoned because it was unpromising, the 
most important and interesting connection between the natural forces 
would to-day be wanting. When young Galileo, while a student at Pisa, 
observed a swinging lamp in church, and found by counting his pulse 
that the duration of the oscillations was independent ot the size of the 
arc, who could have foreseen that by means of this discovery we would 
obtain clocks measuring time with an accuracy then deemed impossible, 
and which would enable the mariner, tossed by storms on the remotest 
waters of the earth, to determine his longitude"? 

He who expects an immediate practical benefit in his study of science, 
may be pretty sure that his pursuit will be in vain. Perfect knowledge 
and understanding of the action of the powers of nature and mind are 
all that science can attain. The individual investigator must find suffi- 
cient reward in the pleasure of making new discoveries, victories of 
thought over refractory matter ; in the aesthetical beauty afforded by 
well-ordered knowledge, where a perfect (connection exists between all 
its parts and the whole shows the controlling power of the mind; and 
in the consciousness of having contributed to the ever-increasing stock 
of knowledge on which the dominion of man over inimical force depends. 
He cannot, indeed, expect always to find appreciation and reward ade- 
quate to the value of his works. It is true that many a one to whose 
memory a monument has been erected, would have been lia])py had he 
received the tenth part of its cost in money during his lifetime. But we 
must also remember that the value of scientific discovery is much more 
readily and cheerfully appreciated by public opinion than formerly, and 
that cases where authors of material scientific progress are allowed to 
suffer want have become more and more rare ; that, on the contrai-y, the 
governments and people of Europe have recognized the duty of com- 
pensating prominent men of science by corresponding positions or na- 
tional rewards pnnided especially for the jjurpose. 

The sciences have then a common cause: to make the mind rule the 
world. While the mental sciences work directly to make intellectual 
life richer and more interesting, to separate the,pure from the impure, 



PHYSICAL SCIENCES TO SCIENCE IN GENERAL. 233 

the natural sciences labor indirectly toward the same goal, by endeavor- 
lug to free man more and more from external necessities. Every single 
investigator performs his part and chooses such tasks as are most suited 
to his mental endowments and culture. But every one must remem- 
ber, also, that he is able to further the great work only in conjunction 
with the rest, and that it is therefore his duty to make the results of 
his labors as clear and as accessible to them as possible. Then he will 
find assistance in others and they in him. The annals of science are 
rich in proofs of such mutual relations between sciences apparently the 
most remote. Historical chronology is based upon astronomical calcu- 
lations of eclipses of the sun and moon, recorded in ancient histories. 
Conversely, many important data in astronomy, such as the time of 
revolution of many comets, are based upon old historic records. Lat- 
terly, Briicke and other physiologists have found it possible to build up 
a system of all articulate sounds of wuich the human organs of speech 
are capable, and to base upon it suggestions for a universal alphabet 
adapted to all human languages. Here, then, physiology has entered 
the service of the science of language, and has furnished the explana- 
tion of many curious changes of sound, which are determined not by 
the law of euphony, as had been before supposed, but by a. similarity 
in the positions of the organs of si)eech. The science of language, in 
return, throws light u])()n the ancient relationship, separation, and 
migrations of tribes in prehistoric times and on the degree of civilization 
to whieh they had attained before their separation; for the names of 
those objects which they could name then, are found to be common in 
later languages. Thus the study of language furnishes us with the 
history of times of which we have no historical documents. Let me 
furthermore remind you of the assistance which anatomy can afford 
the sculptor and the arch?eologist who examines ancient statues. If I 
may be permitted to refer to some of my own latest works, I will men- 
tion that it is possible to demonstrate the elements of our musical sys- 
tem by the physics of sound and the physiology of its sensation, a 
jn^oblem belonging entirelj^ to iiesthetics. The physiology of the organs 
of sense is most intimately connected with psychology, because it 
proves results of ijsychological processes in the perceptions of sense 
which do not come within the scope of conscious reflection, and must, 
therefore, remain concealed from psychological self-observation. 

I could only mention here the most striking examples of the mutual 
relations of sciences and those which required the fewest words, and 
was, therefore, obliged to choose those existing between the most 
remote branches. But the influence which each science exercises over 
the one nearest akin to it is, of course, much greater. It is self-evident; 
it requires no illustration; you all know it from your own experience. 

I therefore consider every individual as a laborer at a common great 
work, touching the noblest interests of the whole human race ; not as 
one striving to satisfy his desire of knowledge, or his own advantage, 



234 ON THE RELATION OF PHYSICAL SCIENCES, ETC. 

or to shine by displayiug his own abilities. The true scientist will not 
want the reward of his own conscience nor the appreciation of his fel- 
low-men. To keep alive the co-operation of all investigators and the 
relations of all branches of science with each other and to their common 
object is the great mission of universities ; it is, therefore, necessary 
that in them the four faculties should always go hand in hand. We will 
constantly endeavor, as far as in us lies, to labor in this great cause. 



ALTERNATE GENERATION AND PARTHENOGENESIS IN THE ANIMAL KINGDOM. 



Lecture delivered before the Vienna Society for the Dili'usion of Scieutilic Knowledge, 

by Dr. G. A. Koi:miuueu. 



'Xranslateil for tlie Smithsonian Institution. 

AmoDg" the variou.s questions whose scientific explanation is the 
province of animal i>hjsiology, none has perhaps excited the interest 
of the people, as well as of scholars, to a higher degree than the propa- 
ga-tion of organisms. 

While in former times naturalists entertained the most various opin- 
ions and hypotheses, or indulged in the most chimerical speculations, 
modern science, armed ^Yith more perfect knowledge and greatly im- 
proved instruments, and more familiar with methods of exact research, 
has gradually succeeded in shedding some light on these mysterious 
I)rocesses. 

These processes in general consist in this, that certain bodily constitu- 
ents are from time to time separated from individual beings, and are 
developed into others of the same species. If the action of a second 
animal substance is necessary on such separated germs, which then 
show the characteristic structure of eggs, and are called ova, tbe process 
is called sexual propagation or generation; but if the germ under favor- 
able external circum.stances may become a new being without such 
action, this more simple though less general process is called unsex- 
ual or agamic reproduction. 

To the latter belongs a series of phenomena toAvhich I have the honor 
of directing your attention this evening ; phenomena which have been 
accurately studied and verified only within the last two decades. A 
law has been established of the highest importance, not only to zoology 
but to hll natural science, which has been named that of '■'■ Alternate 
Generation and Parthenogenesis P 

It was the brilliant Danish naturalist Steenstrup who, in the cele- 
brated essay on "Alternate Generation," (Copenhagen, 1842,) first showed 
the way that would lead to a satisfactory explanation of the complicated 
phenomena attending the multii)lication of the lower forms of animal 
life. 

By alternate generation, Steenstrup understood the power of an animal 
of producing progeny dilfering from the mother, but itself capable of pro- 
ducing young, which again return to the form and character of the first 
parent; so that the daughter would not resemble the mother, but the 
grandmother. Sometimes this return to the original form occurs only 



236 ALTERNATE GENERATION AND 

iu the third, fourtli, or yet further removed generations. The pecu- 
liarity of this phenomenon not only consists in the alternation of different 
progeny, but also in that of sexual and sexless reproduction. One gen- 
eration may consist of sexually developed males and females, and bear 
young from eggs, and the next may be sexless, and may bring forth 
young by fission, by buds or germs. These animals capable of agamic 
pro])agation were called nurses by Steenstrup, because it is their function 
to i^rovide for the alimentation and development of the sexual animals. 
The number of sexless intermediate generations, as well as their degree 
of development and organization, differs in different species. They 
either jjossess provisory or temporary organs, and are therefore lar\ ae, 
or they are fully developed individuals, and already show the construc- 
tion and mode of life of the sexual animals. The sexless larvae of 
animals, such as butterflies, which undergo simple metamorphosis, are 
distinguished from our nurses by their inability to multiply by agamic 
reproduction; vso that we may, according to Leuckart, consider alternate 
generation with nurses as a metamorphosis combined with agamic repro- 
duction. 

Alternate generation, very aptly called metagenesis by E. Owen, was 
first observed in the salpse, a kind of mollusks which are as remarkable 
for their form as for their mode of life. They belong to the tunicata, 
and are found in great numbers in the ocean, the Mediterranean, and iu 
all southern seas. They swim about a little below the surface, and pre- 
sent the appearance of oval or cylindrical bodies, clear as crystal, moving 
about either isolated or united iu long chains, by taking iu water and 
expelling it again. 

Our German lyric poet, Chamisso, remarked, in his voyage around the 
world, that the isolated salpaj could not be members of a severed chain, 
because they did not resemble the individuals of the latter. He further- 
more recognized that the solitary sal pre always contained a progeny 
resembling the chain^ while the individuals of the latter contained a 
foetus formed exactly like the solitary salpai. Chamisso published his 
interesting observations in 1819, at Berlin, in an essay entitled De 
animalibus quibusdam e classe vermium linncvana, Fasc. I. de Siilpa, in 
which he expressed the view that the solitary salpai proceeded from the 
individuals of the chain and the latter from the solitary ones. Cha- 
misso's discovery was but little appreciated at first 5 it was even ridi- 
culed as the vagary of a poet, until it was brilliantly defended by 
Steenstrup in 1842, and confirmed and expanded later by the accurate 
investigations of other zoologists. We know now that the loosely con- 
nected chain is composed of hermajdirodite sexual animals, generating 
an embryo usually from one egg only, which remains connected for a 
time with the mother by means of a kind of placenta, and is nourished 
by it until, having attained a considerable size, it escapes and forjus the 
solitary or isolated salpa — the only case of viviparity among the tuni- 
cata. The solitary salpa then generates a chtiin of sexually developed 



PARTHENOGENESIS IN THE ANIMAL KINGDOM. 2o7 

individuals by gemmatiou from buds, wbicli take the place of male 
aud female organs of generation, and thus represent their nurse. 

On the coasts of the North and Baltic Seas immense swarms of clear, 
watery, bell-shaped creatures may be perceived in summer, swimming 
slowly around below the calm surface of the water, with their convex 
surface upward and their concave downward. These are the Aurella 
auriia^ L., a species of acraspedote, or unfringed medusa, some of which 
are male and some female, as is tlie case in all medusa'. The sexual 
organs are ruffle-like folds on the inner skin of four bags or folds in the 
gastrical cavity, which open outward at the bottom of the stalk. By 
simple ciliary motion the seed of the male passes into the bags of the 
female and fecundates the eggs. These then pass out into the folds of 
the tentacles, where they are develoj^ed to embryos, which are provided 
with a very tender covering of cilia, and move about freely in the water 
like infusoria. This phase of evolution was formerly considered as a 
separate species, called planula. Soon, however, the cilia falls off, and 
the animalcule, thus deprived of its locomotive organs, sinks to the 
bottom, attaclies itself to firm objects, and grows longer. In the free 
end a cavity soon appears, which gradually increases and is developed 
into a mouth, from which wart-like excrescences or i>apilUe shoot out 
and are afterward converted into tentacles. The animal has now the 
appearance of a polypus; aud it was, indeed, formerly so considered, 
and called hydra tuba. After some time — perhaps months — a circular 
depression is seen just below the crown of tentacles, followed by others 
behind it. These depressions become deeper aud deeper, aud short 
projections appear in their edges, which afterward also develop into 
tentacles. The whole now bears a distant resemblance to the so-called 
strohilaj or fir-cone, or to a set of flat cups resting on a columnar foot, 
the polypus. The separate divisions of the strobila are the origin of 
the future medusa. They develop more and more, one" after another, 
separate from their pedestal, and afterwards attain their permanent 
form, size, and maturity. They now turn the convex surface by which 
they were attached, upward, while the mouth, which was before turned 
up, now points downward. In the aurelia there is, therefore, an inter- 
mediate or nurse generation during the polypus stage, in which the 
animal is multiplied in an agamic way by gemmation aud fission. 
Each of the individuals so produced is again developed into a sexual 
medusa. 

In medusie of lower organization belonging to the hydroids, which 
Gegenbauer has called craspedote, because their disk is provided with a 
velum, a similar kind of alternate generation takes place, with the ex- 
ception, however, that the polypoid nurse reaches a much more advanced 
stage of independent development after leaving the ovum. It grows to 
a stalk of considerable size, and puts forth numerous polypus-buds. It 
is only when the colony has attained a high degree of development that 



238 ALTERNATE GENERATION AND 

the sexual animals arc formed, which separate from the stalk, swim 
about indepeudeutly, and deposit their eggs in remote spots. 

In other hydroids the nurse acquires a still greater importance. In 
them, as in our sweet-water polypi, the sexual progeny appears only in 
the shape of globular appendages, which are not capable of being 
evolved into independent animals, but remain attached to the polypus- 
stalk, and resemble organs for the production of the sexual secretions. 

We may with Gegenbauer call this latter form of alternate generation 
imperfect metagenesis. We see another remarkable instance of it in 
the peculiar many-shaped colonies known as Siphoiiophorw, which swim 
about freely in the sea, and of which the vraya dipheys, Blaine, occurring 
in the Atlantic and the Mediterranean, may serve as an example. From 
the transparent ovum of this animal a ciliated larva is hatched. The 
plastic material contained in the body of this larva or nurse is then differ- 
entiated into a locomoiory piece, (the posterior of the two swimming- 
bells at the beginning of the stalk of a ripe colony,) and an appendage 
whi(,'h afterward becomes the second bell and the common stalk of the 
whole colony. The individuals now bud forth from this stalk in a fixed 
order, but do not separate. They remain so connected that their abdom- 
inal cavities all open into the canal passing through the common stalk. 
These individuals are not by any means formed alike, nor do they serve 
the same physiological purpose. The principal of the division of labor, 
which is carried out in the solitary animals so that their organs become 
constantly more numerous and more i)erfect, is here applied in such a 
manner that the various functions of animal life, motion, alimentation, 
defense, and aggression, as well as sexual reproduction, which is other- 
wise confined to single individuals, are here distributed among all the 
animals of the whole colony. In every tuft along the stalk, which some- 
times numbers as many as fifty of them, we distinguish mnirisliers in the 
form of trumpet-shaped appendages with orifices called suction- tubes ; 
aggressors, in the form of long contractile filaments or tentacles furnished 
with microscopic weapons (nettle-cells) at their knobs ; defenders, in 
the form of stiff scales or helmets attached to the nourishers for pur- 
poses of defense ; reproducers, developed after all the rest, in the form of 
racemous diajcious ca])sules swinging in small (special) swiinming-bells. 
By the alternate contraction and expansion of the bell-shiiped sicimmers 
at the upper end of the colony, (the base,) with which the smaller spe- 
cial swinnning-bells move in time, the whole colony is propelled tlirough 
the water. 

In a few other species, the pliysalida; and vcUelida', the sexual ani- 
mals separate from their nursing stalk and have a short, independent 
existence like the medusa. 

The alternate generation of some of the intestinal worms is attended 
by the most wonderful and extraordinary circumstances. The most 
curious opinions have prevailed until very lately about their origin and 
reproduction. • 



PARTHENOGENESIS IN THE ANIMAL KINGDOM. 239 

Oil account of tlieir various waudcrings tlirongh dilTereiit auimal 
bodies, the frematodcs, aud more es[)ecial!y certain species of the genus 
(listomaj so called ou account of two suckers or stomata on the flat part 
of their bodies, are of peculiiir interest. From the egg of the distoma 
a ciliated embryo, resembling infusoria, is produced, which swims about 
in the water, attaches itself to certain sweet-water snails, (Limnaius, 
Plauorbis, &c.,) and i)enetrates into their bodies. There it grows, loses 
its cilia, and develops a mouth and an alimentary tube. Its contents 
aggregate into cellular heaps, which gradually assume a definite vshape, 
and arc converted into small animals. These essentially possess the 
structure of mature trematodes, but are sexless and have a tail-like ap- 
pendage; they increase slowly in size and expand the worm which 
contains them, and which seems to have no other function than to pro- 
tect them and promote their development, >. e., to act as their nurse. 
When completely developed they pierce the envelope of their nurse 
aud move about freely in the body of the snail until they pass through 
this also, and glide through the water with a winding motion by means 
of their tail. In this form they had long been known to naturalists 
liuder the name of cercaria, Nitz ; but their relation to the trematodes 
was unknown until quite recently. The cercaria afterward seeks a 
new host among the many inhabitants of the water, (fish, mollusks, 
crabs, insect-larvae, etc.,) penetrates them by means of its proboscis, 
and there loses both its tail and the sting of its proboscis, as no longer 
necessary to its new mode of living. It is now converted into a distoma. 

If the animal finds all the conditions necessary to its perfect evolu- 
tion in its new host, it continues to grow until it has attained maturity. 
If this is not the case, it remains small and sexless, surrounds itself 
with a transparent shell, which it secretes from the surface of its own 
body, and remains in a state of rest and inactivity like a pupa until its 
host is eaten up by a larger and stronger animal. Hence we find it in 
the intestines, the gall-bladder, the biliary ducts, the kidneys, etc., of 
higher animals, especially of ruminants, (iu the liver of sheeji, cattle, 
goats, and deer;) also in asses, hogs, hares, etc., and in rare cases in 
man. f Distoma hcpaticum^ L. ; Distoma JtamiatoMum, Bilhars*) 

Sometimes it happens that the progeny of the worm like nurse does 
not immediately assume the form of the cercaria, but that of the mother. 
In that case an intermediate generation of larva? is produced, which 
act as nurses of the cercaria, so that the worm resulting from the em- 
bryo might be called the grand-nurse. 

Thus the numerous and fertile multiplication of germs by means of 
agamic reproduction counterbalances the difficulties and obstacles 
which these animals have to encounter in their various migrations 
through other organisms before they reach their perfect form. 

Formerly the tapeworm was considered nothing more than a simple 

* Zeitscbrift fiir wissenschaftlicbe Zoologie, 1853, vol. iv, pp. 53-70 and 454-456. 



240 ALTERNATE GENERATION AND 

animal having a liead and an articulated body. Since Steenstrup's 
time, however, and especially throngli the more recent investigations of 
V. Siebold and van Beneden, we know it to consist of a chain or colony 
of differently-formed individuals. The larger posterior joints (the so- 
called profjlottides) represent the organs of generation, and contain 
many thousand eggs in their ramified ovaries. In these, microscopic 
embryos are developed, which are discharged when the ripe joints tall 
off with the excrement of the host. The embryos do not then leave the 
eggs at once, but remain in their envelopes, which are well fitted for re- 
sisting putrefaction or chemical agents, until the eggs are accidentally 
swallowed by some (usually an herbivorous) animal. In the intestines 
of the latter the embryo forces its way through the egg-envelope, 
softened by the digestive juices, pierces the intestinal walls and neigh- 
boring tissues, until it reaches a vein and is carried by the blood to 
more distant organs, in whose parenchyma it remains. After losing its 
embryonic hooks, the tape-worm larva growls to a bladder of varying 
size, along the walls of which numerous buds (the later " heads") arise 
in such a manner that the hollow body of the tape-worm head extends 
into the bladder. Such colonies were long known and considered aS 
different species of animals. When one of them gets into the intestines 
of a larger animal, the head or bud provided with hooks and suckers 
is turned inside out, the bladder is digested, and the joints of the tape- 
worm (the real sexual, hermaphrodite individual) begin to grow behind 
the head. The reproduction of the tape- worm, therefore, passes through 
three different phases : The worm -like embryo or grand-nurse, the so- 
called tape- worm head or nurse, and the mature sexual animal. 

With the exception of the salpse, we have so far only considered cases 
of metagenesis where the nurses are in the form of larvse. In the arthro- 
2)ods, among the dqjfera, we also find such nursing larvre — an entirely 
new and remarkable phenomenon first discovered in the fall of 1801 by 
Nicholas Wagner, professor of zoology, in Kasan. It produced no small 
excitement among zoologists, and was the cause of so much astonishment 
that V. Siebold himself designated it as hardly credible on receiving, 
after some delay, Wagner's essay in the " Zeitschrift tiir wissenschaftliche 
Zoologie," 18G3, vol. xiii, p. 513. Wagner could not then describe 
clearly tlie insect-larva which he had recognized as capable of reproduc- 
tion, and v. Siebold took it from the illustrations to be a cecydomyde 
larva. Not long after, however, Dr. F. Meinert,* of Copenhagen, not 
only fully confirmed his beautiful discovery, but extended it by proving 
the different phases of development up to the imago, which Wagner t 
had meanwhile also accurately investigated. Meinert calls it the mias- 
tor metraloas, but according to the later researches of our excellent 
dipterologist. Dr. Schiner, reported to the imperial zoological-botanical 



* Zeitsclirift fur wissenscbaftliche Zoologie, vol. xiv, p. 394. 
t Vol. XV, p. 106. ■ ' ^ 



PARTHENOGENESIS IN THE ANIMAL KINGDOM. 241 

society iu February, 1805, it hardly seems to dilier from the geuus 
lieteroiieza Winncrtz. Eeproductiou takes place by means of germs. 
From seven to ten of these arise out of the accumulated i)lastic material 
in the body of the " mother-larva," and develop to ''■ daughter-larvie." 
The former is thereby gradually destroyed, and the progeny tears her 
skin and passes out. After three or live days the same process of 
germination begins iu the new larva, and this continues from August 
to June, when all the larvtie of the last generation simultaneously pass 
into the pupa state. After three or four days the perfect insect, a 
small reddish-brown tly, emerges from the pupa. The correctness of 
these observations was afterward verified by v. Bicr and v. Siebold, 
and Professor Alexander ragenstecher, of Ileidelberg, observed the 
same thing in another species and accurately described it.* 

Metagenesis, with mature individuals as nurses, is exemiilified among 
the arthropods by the aphides. As early as the middle of the last cen- 
tury, Charles Bonuet t had already communicated exact observations on 
the peculiar and remarkable mode of reproduction of the aphides, (plant- 
lice.) These well-known enemies of our gardens and green-houses cover 
the leaves, shoots, and branches of certain plants in thick swarms, and 
defy all our exertions to get rid of them by their extreme fecundity. 
During the summer there is a series of nine or ten generations of fully- 
formed but sexless animals, or nurses, which bring forth living young 
without fecundation, and even without the presence of the male. Em- 
bryos are formed immediately from germs, which do not show the struc- 
ture of true ova. They separate from peculiar tubes (germinal tubes) 
and develop in the body of the mother. In autumn the next to the tost 
generation produces sexually-developed males and females, which really 
cohabit. As in most insects, the male then perishes, while the female 
lays eggs, which hibernate and produce a new race of nurses the following 
spring. The anatomical examination of these animals, which was first 
undertaken by v. Siebold, and afterwards confirmed by Leidig, shows 
that the viviparous individuals are well developed, and resemble the 
oviparous females of the last fall generation, but that they are sexless 
nurses, becauses they lack the seed-bladder belonging to all female in- 
sects, and are, therefore, incapable of receiving the male seed. 

All the phenomena of alternate generation were also called '■^ FarfJicno 
f/niesis^' by the excellent English anatomist, Richard Owen, in 1S4!),| 
and this name, although somewhat inappropriate, was generally received 
oa account of its euphony. When, however, the surprising discoveries 
of the last few decades put in question the theory that " every true egg 

* Zeitschrift fiir wissedsch.aftliclic Zoologie, xiv, p. 400. Further iuvestioatiou of 
this subject is communicated by L(suckart, iu Troschel's Archiv., year XXXI, No. 3. 

+ Trait<5 d'Insectologie, tome I : Paris, 1845. 

t On Parthenogenesis ; a discourse introductory to the Hunt^riau Lectures on gen- 
eration and development for 1849. Delivered at the Royal College of Surgeons of 
England : London, 1349. 
10 S 71 



242 ALTERNATE GENERATION AND 

caimot be developed into a new individual, (animal or plant,) unless it 
lias been i^reviouslj" fructified by tlie action of the male seed," it seemed 
expedient to confine the term "jjarthenogenesis" to the new phenomena. 
In this sense it was first used by the ingenious founder of this imi^ortant 
new theory, the distinguished zoologist of the Munich University, 
Karl Theodor v. Siebold, in his paper on "True Parthenogenesis in But- 
terflies and Bees; an Essay on the Eeproduction of Animals. Leipsic, 
1856." 

Parthenogenesis or virginal generation, according to Siebold, com- 
prises " those phenomena which demonstrate that true ova may be de- 
veloped into new individuals without the fecundating intervention of 
the male seed." 

There is no want of observations of former times according to which 
the eggs of virgin insects were said to have produced new individuals, 
but they were considered erroneous. Zoologists doubted that they were 
made with proper care, and attempted to explain them in different forced 
ways, finally classing them under metagenesis. Among them are the 
communications of De Geer on the psychides, and of Herold on the silk- 
worms. In 184^5 the celebrated apiculturist, K. Dzierzon, a Catholic 
priest at Karlsmarkt, east of Brieg, in Prussian Silesia, emjihatically 
maintained in the "Bienenzeitung," p. 113, that the eggs from which 
the male bees or drones originate are produced and developed by the 
sole inherent power of the mother bee without the action of male seed. 
This view at first seemed simply incredible to apiarists; they supposed 
that he had either deceived himself or intended to mystify others. But 
when Dzierzon reiterated his statement he was severely attacked, and 
the dispute continued for a long time. 

Until 1852 Dzierzon stood alone against their attacks, but undaunted, 
unconquered. He could fall back on the experience of many years. 
Every oue knows that there are queens which produce only male pro- 
geny or drones, and never lay an egg from which mature females, 
queens, or stinted females, workers are developed ; that there are others 
which may lay female eggs for a time but afterward become like the 
former, and that finally there are worker-bees which lay eggs, which 
give birth only to male individuals. 

Among the first-class Dzierzon frequently found bees whose wings 
were lame. They were thus prev^ented from making their hymenial 
flight from which they would otherwise have returned impregnated. 
Other queens which laid male eggs from the beginning were hatched 
either very early or very late in the year, at a time when there were 
either no more or only very few drones left, so that their flight was in 
vain. Queens which at first laid normal eggs and afterward produced 
only drones were older individuals, whose stock of seed had become grad- 
ually exhausted. Worker-bees, which sometimes lay eggs and never 
have any other male progeny, have never been aiul are indeed incapa- 
ble of being impregnated. From these facts Dzierzon concluded that 



PARTHENOGENESIS IN THE ANIMAL KINGDOM. 243 

impregiiatiou ^vas unnecessary to the production of drones. That in 
common normal generation, where the queen returns impregnated from 
her flight, the drones are developed from unfecundated eggs, i. e., from 
those through whose micropyles the spermatozoa have not penetrated, is 
lu'oved by Dzicrzon from the following' fact : After the introduction of 
the Italian bee, {apis liguyica,) distinguished by the light color of its pos- 
terior abdomen, all the young drones from an Italian queen and a German 
father were trne Italians, while the female i^rogeny were clearly mixed. 

The convincing truth of these fiicts and the logical conclusions drawn 
from them at last brought such eminent bee-masters as Pastor Georg 
Kleine, of Liiethorst, in Hanover, and August v. Berlepsch, of Seebach, 
uear Gotha, into Dzierzon's camp; but they found no entrance as yet 
into zoological science, because these practical men were unable to fur- 
nish the proper scientific proof to physiologists, who either did not know 
or purposely ignored these phenomena. 

The important discovery of the micropyle of the insect-egg, made 
almost simultaneously in 1854 bj-^Meissner,* of Gottingen, and Leuckart,t 
of Giesseu, raised the hope of the apiculturists, and seemed to make it 
l^robable that Dzierzon's views would be proved by scientific men. At 
the thirty-first meeting of German naturalists and physicians, held at 
Gottingen in 1854, Pastor Kleine succeeded in winning Professor 
Leuckart for his cause just as the latter had demonstrated his beautiful 
discoveries about the eggs of insects. Leuckart had never been able 
to obtain any bee-eggs, and was then for the first time, according- to 
his own confession, initiated into the mysteries and i^roblems of beedife. 

The first direct proof of the existence of real parthenogenesis was 
furnished by Leuckart in the "Bienenzeitung," 1855, p. 127, where he 
communicated the results of the microscopic examinatiouof a queen-bee 
sent him by Baron Berlei)sch. This queen had been hatched in Sep- 
tember, 1854, a time when no drones existed. The next spring- she had 
filled fifteen hundred cells with male progeny. On dissection it became 
evident that the queen had not been impregnated. She was a nonnally 
formed female with seed-pouch and eggs; but instead of spermatic fila- 
ments the former contained a perfectly clear liquid, devoid of granules 
or cells, just as in the pupte of queens. 

In order to establish Dzierzon's view fidly it still remained to be proved 
that in impregnated queens laying normal eggs, the males are also 
developed from unfecundated eggs. For this purpose Baron Berlepscli 
invited Professor Leuckart to Seebach, where he could institute micro- 
scoi)ic investigations. Leuckart went there willingly, but he could not 
obtain a definite result, in spite of all his long continued exertions. K. 
Th. V. Siebold, who went to Seebach a few months later, by invitation 
of Baron Berlepsch, and resumed Leuckart's researches, was more suc- 
cessful. He worked in vain for three days and declared that nothing 

* Zeitschrift fiir wisseuscbaftliche, Zoologie, vi, 272. 
t Aicliiv. fiir Anatoini(> ii. riiysiologii", li-^.").^*, p. 'JO. 



244 ALTERNATE GENERATION AND 

could be discovered by meaus of the microscope. He was to return 
next morniug, and the carriage was already before the door, when he 
appeared before the baron and asked permission to remain one day 
longer. He stated that he had been unable to sleep on account of his 
want of success, and that a new method had occurred to him, which he 
desired to try.* This method succeeded perfectly, and v. Siebold very 
frequently saw seed-filaments (thirty one times in fifty-two, and in two 
of these cases mobile) in the interior of the bee-eggs. But these sperma- 
tozoa were found exclusively in female eggs, and were entirely wanting 
in the male.t We therefore owe to SiebokFs wonderful observations 
and laborious experiments the definitive establishment of Dzierzon's 
theory that the drone-eggs are developed parthenogenetically without 
impregnation by the male seed. This fact, abundantly confirmed by 
many accurate and oft-repeated investigations, and also by Leuckart's 
valuable work,| must now be received as scientifically established. 

When parthenogeneticcil reproduction was thus undoubtedly proved 
in bees, the above-mentioned more ancient statements were carefully 
re-examined. In the Solenohia triquetrella and the ^olenobia Uchenella 
belonging to the moth family, it was found that the females (which were 
brought up from the caterpillar stage in a closed box) laid numerous 
eggs soon after leaving the pupce, and that these eggs produced small 
caterpillars. V. Siebold dissected such moths before and after they 
laid their eggs, and found their ovaries constituted exactly like those 
of other female butterllies, but not a trace of male spermatozoa could 
be discovered.§ The eggs could not therefore be impregnated, and 
must undergo spontaneous development. 

Of the remarkable apterous Ijutterfiy, Psyche helix, Siebold, whose cat- 
erpillar makes a spiral bag, no one has yet been able to find the male, 
although it has been sought for over fifteen years. And yet these fe- 
males annually lay their eggs in the pupa envelope, which remains .be- 
hind in the caterpillar bag, and in the fall these produce the caterpillars. 
On dissection, true eggs with micropyle, a seed-vessel, but always with- 
out male si)ermatozoa, and a copulating pouch are found. These pecu- 
liarities iireclude the opinion that the psyche female is only a nurse. 

V. Siebold and Schmid furthermore succeeded repeatedly in obtain- 
ing caterpillars from the eggs of a virgin silkworm, and from those of 
the Smerinthus, which became pupre and emerged as perfect male and 
female insects. 

A. Barthelemyll also confirms the existence of parthenogenesis in 

* BieuenzeitHiig, 1863, p. 222. 

t True Parthenogenesis, etc., j). 111. 

t Zur Keuutniss des Gefferations wecbselsuuil der Partbeuogenese, etc., Frankfort, 
1858, p. 51. 

§ Also Lnckart, idem, p. 45. 

||£tudes et Cousiddrations G^nerales sur la Partli<?nog«5nese, (Aunales des Sciences 
Natiuali's, XII. p t^OT.) 



PARTHENOGENESIS IN THE ANIMAL KINGDOM. 245 

Bomhijx mori, aud furuislies various proofs. He also observed the lay- 
ing of uuimpregiiated eggs by other butterflies, which are hatched if 
they belong- to the first geueratiou of the year, but never survive the 
winter. 

Jourdau* also observed true parthenogenesis in the silk- worm. 

At the forty-seventh meeting of Swiss naturalists at Samaden, de 
Filippi reported that healthy caterpillars were hatched from the eggs of 
the Japanese silk-butterfly, although they had certainly not been fe- 
cundated, and mentioned a similar observation of Curtis on the Bombi/x 
atlas. 

In certain species of coccides Leuckart (p. 30) also found partheno- 
genetical generation. In the Lecanlum and A.spidiotusj for instance, the 
eggs are developed in tubes without being previously impregnated, and 
the spermatozoa are entirely wanting. In the genus Chennes {Ch. ahietis, 
Kaltenb., Ch. lai-ids, IlarUnr/, Ch.iyicew^ Fat;:;!)., PJiyUowra cocclnea., Ileydcn) 
of the plant-lice, having, according to Leuckart,! both a winter and a 
winged summer generation, which latter was erroneously taken for 
males by Ratzeburg, reproduction proceeds by means of eggs without 
previous impregnation. Leu(;kart examined two hundred animals, and 
never found males but always females, and they virgins. Males do not 
seem to exist, or if they do, parthenogenetical reproduction seems to be 
the rule. Less accurate observations of the same kind were made by 
Dr. Ormerod t on the Vespa hritajinica, and by Stone § on the Vesjia 
vulgaris. 

Leuckart (pp. lOo-lOT) has furthermore established the fact that in 
all otlier sociable Hymenoptcra, as the bumble-bee, the wasp, and the 
ant, as well as in the bee, parthenogenesis prevails. Egg-laying work- 
ers, which are exceptional with bees, are the rule with these animals. 
Future researches must decide whether their progeny is always male, as 
Huber's§ observations of bumble-bees seem to indicate. No doubt we 
will also find parthenogenesis with many other insects, such as the ter- 
mites and the gall-fly. In the gall-fly, a species of cynips, no nude has 
yet been discovered, but only females. 

The experiments of Lievin aud Zenker, which demonstrated the 
spontaneous develoiiment of the daphides, have been confirmed by J. 
Lubbock. Millions of the females of these animals, which are scarcely 
a line long, may be seen in summer moving about in cisterns and other 
standing sweet waters. They multiply in ra[)idly succeeding genera- 
tions by means of unimpregnated or summer eggs in a cavity between 

* Compt. Rend., 18G1, tome 5;{, p. 1093. 

tTroscliel's Archives, vol. 25, p. 208. Scltizoiicura seems to have only au oviparous 
fall generation. 

I Zoologist, 1859; and Entomol. Annual for IHGO, p. 87. 

^Proceedings Entomological Society, 1859, p. 8G; Smith in Entomol. Annual for 
1861, p. 39. 

II Transactions of Linn. Society, 1802, vol. G, p. 288. 



246 ALTERNATE GENERATION AND 

the shell aud the back of the auimal, where they dev<'h»p into individ- 
uals exactly resembling the mother, aud multiiJyiug partheuogeuetically 
on separating from her. In the fall males are boru, which cohabit with 
the females aud produce oue or two darkly-colored winter-eggs, which 
are surrounded by a second firm euvelope called the ephippium, to pro- 
tect them during their hibernation. 

Although there can be no longer any doubt about the correctness of 
these facts, which have been established by the repeated, careful, and 
accurate observations of our most distinguished zoologists, and although 
the existence of parthenogenesis among a number of articulate animals 
is proved beyond dispute, attempts are not wanting to render them sus- 
picious, and represent them as unreliable. Every truth differing from 
long cherished opinions is received slowly and with difiQculty. 

Tigri proposed, in a paper to the Paris Academy of Sciences,* to ex- 
plain the parthenogenesis of the Bombyx mori by the supposition that 
there is a double cocoon containing two individuals, a male aud a female, 
which might have copulated before leaving their shell. This supposi- 
tion would presuppose the most extraordinary carelessness on the part 
of the above-mentioned observers. It amounts to charging them with 
not being able to distinguish a double from a single cocoon, or with neg- 
lecting to examine the organs of generation aud determine the sex 
of the individuals. Errors of so crude a nature would hardly be com- 
mitted by men but little acquainted with methods of research, much less 
by naturalists of high standing. 

Schaum* states that he cannot receive the theory of the iiartheuo- 
geuesis of insects, aud thinks he can explain it away by an hypothesis 
of Priugsheim. According to this the queen-bee, aud the workers 
which lay eggs, might be androgynous, and possess male organs of gen- 
eration besides their ovaries. In all cases where the skillful anatomists, 
V. Siebold and Leuckart, dissected such bees, there were no traces of 
testicles, so that the above supposition remains without foundation. 

The exi.steuce of hermaidirodite bees, which were observed by v. Sie- 
bold in the apiaries of Air. Engster, of Constanz, Bavaria, | cannot be 
brought forward as a proof against parthenogenesis, but rather seems 
to confirm it. It was observed that the pure worker-bees drove the 
hermai)hrodites out of the hive the moment they left their eggs, aiui did 
not even suffer them to remain on tiie board outside. The hermaphro- 
dites perished in a short tinu', and could never have reached the egg- 
laying stage, even if eggs had afterward formed in their originally 
empty ovaries. According to Pringsheim, every queen would have to 
be an hermaphrodite; but in the lance-winged and drone-producing 
queens, which were repeatedly examined by the above observers, no 
trace of androgynism or of spermatozoa could be found. 

* Couipt. Rend., Iv, 1862, p. lOG. 
t Borliuer Entoin. Zeitscbiift, viii, p. 93. 

X C. Th. V. Siebold oa Androgynous Boos, Zeitschrift fiirw«\'issenscliaftliclie Zoologio, 
vol. xiv, No. 1, and in the Eichstiidter Bicuenzeitung, year xix, p. 223. 



PARTHENOGENESIS IN THE ANIMAL KINGDOM. 247 

Dybocosky also a]>peared against parthenogenesis in bis inangnral dis- 
sertation, "do partbenogenesi;'" but liis objections are unfounded, and 
evince neitber tborougb investigation nor satisfactory knowledge of tlie 
subject. Tbe same is the case witb various other objections brought 
forward by the opponents of parthenogenesis. Xone of them will stand 
test. 

Tbe reliability of the theory is established beyond doubt by many 
well-proved facts, and we may rejoice that we have thus gained a new 
and highly important law for the explanation of the most wonderful 
phenomena in the animal kingdom. 



0> THE PRESENT STATE OF ®UR KiVOWLEDGE OP CRYPT0GA3I0US PLANTS. 



Lecture delircred before ihc Vienna Soelefi/for the Diffiifiion of Scientific Knowledge, hy Hein- 

ricli Wilhelni lleiehardt. 



[Translated for the SmitlisoLiiaii Iustitu<ion, by Professdr C. T. Kuoeh.] 

lu the last few decades many leading botanists have giv.eu especial 
attention to the study of cryptogamous plants, for tbey very properly 
recognized the importance to tlieir science which a more perfect knowl- 
edge of the development, growth, and propagation, as well as of the struc- 
ture, of these simplest of organism would be. Through the combined 
labors of much talent, a large number of the most interesting dis- 
coveries have been made. An entirely new basis for this department 
of botany has been created, the i)revious views about seed-bearing 
lilants in many respects reformed, and a very general interest excited 
in the subject. For this reason it seems proper for me to report to 
this society, whose object is the diffusion of scientific knowledge, the 
present state of our information with respect to the cryptogams. 

It is evident that it is only possible to give a condensed view of the 
most important facts, and to consider even these only in their general out- 
lines, in the short time allotted to a lecture. 

Th* cryptogams were almost wholly unknown to the ancients. Even 
Theophrastus and Fedanius Diosloridcs enumerate only twenty species 
of them in their works. In the Middle Ages no progress w^as made in a 
knowledge of them. Attention was only paid to a few species of crypto- 
gams, to which were attributed medicinal or magical virtues. When, 
with the revival of classical learning and the reformation, science also 
received a fresh impulse, when Brunfcls rejected the traditions of the 
old school and turned to the study of domestic idants and thereby cre- 
ated anew basis ibr botanical research, botanists were too much occu- 
pied with the observation of seminiferous plants to pay much attention 
to the lower orders. It was not until the beginning of the eighteenth 
century that two men appeared who actively took up the studj" of cryp- 
togams, and who must therefore be considered as the founders of this 
branch of the science. They are Antonio ^Micheli, sui)erir.tendent of the 
botanic garden at Florence, and Joliann .Jacob Dillenius, a German, 
who later became su[)erintendent of the botanic garden at Eltham, 
and professor at the University of Oxford. I cannot enter into a de- 
tailed account of the labors of these two fathers of cryi>togauuc botany 5 
let it sufiice, therefore, to indicate that they rei)resent the two chief 
schools which still characterize the study of cryptogams to-day. 



250 ON THE PRESENT STATE OF OUR 

Micbeli wa« an excellent morphologist for liistime, aud inade some very 
interesting discoveries iu bis line; Dillenins, however, was principally 
a systematizer ; lie knew and described almost one tbonsand species 
of silgsc, licbens, mosses, and ferns. 

At last Carl von Linne appeared on tlie scene. He is known to every 
man of cnltnre as one of the greatest of botanists, and as a scholar wbo 
reformed and influenced tbe whole study of natural history. He pro- 
posed what is called the sexual system, under which he classified all known 
plants ; he introduced the nomenclature now in use ; be raised botany 
to the dignity of a true science. Occupied as he was with tbe phanero- 
gams, he found no time, and had, x)erhaps, no inclination to investigate 
tbe cryptogams. He contented himself with dividing this, the twenty- 
fourth class of bis system, into tbe four orders of ferns, mosses, alga;, 
and fungi, and distributing among them the materials furnished by 
Dillenins and Micbeli. In his JSpecics Plmitarum be mentions about eight 
hundred kinds of cryi)togams, distributed among fifty genera. Linne's 
indirect influence on this class of i)lants is much more important, since 
he laid down general laws which bis successors were to apply in de- 
tail. The following are some of the prominent men who carried out 
Linn6's ideas in the treatment of the cryptogams : Gmelin, Turner, 
Vaucher, Dillwyn, and especially Aghard the elder, devoted themselves 
to the study of tbe algae. Erik Acharius laid the foundation for the 
study of lichens, and was assisted by Florke, Wallrotb, and Ernst 
Meyer. Fungi were studied by Christian Persoon, with the assistance 
of Schaefler, BuUiard, Bolton, and Link. Jobann Hedwig inaugurated 
the study of mosses, and was seconded by Bridel, Schwagricben, and for 
exotic mosses, by tbe elder Hooker. Ferns were made a siiecialty by 
Olaus Swartz, Willdenow, Kaulfuss, Schkuhr, Beruhardi, and others. 
Hedwig must be considered by far tbe most ingenious and eminent 
investigator of this period; be might properly be called the Linn(§ of 
cryptogams. His researches are read with preference. The Austrians 
especially are proud of him as their fellow-countryman. It would occupy 
too much time to describe tbe researches of Hedwig and the others, 
and I must therefore deny myself that pleasure. 

If we examine what was done in the investigation of cryptogams 
during the period of the Linnean systems, we shall find that tbe eiforts 
of botanists were chiefly directed to the discovery of new forms, to 
make short diagnoses, and to classify them artificially according to 
certain characteristics. Hedwig and the other authors of that time 
furnish only a few though valuable data concerning their peculiarities, 
formation, and anatomical structure. It was left to the most recent 
epoch of botanical studies to unite these isolated materials into a 
harmonic whole. In this epoch, comprising scarcely more than three 
decades, botany, and especially tbe knowledge of cryptogams, has 
made immense progress. 

The representatives of Linne's views had accumulated a mass of 



KNOWLEDGE OF CRYPTOGAMOUS PLANTS. 251 

comprehensively arranged material. Botanists, liowever, gradually be- 
came conscious that their system should not be only an arrangement of 
plants according to certain arbitrary characteristics, but that their 
essential peculiarities and natural relations among themselves must be 
considered in their classification; in other words, that they must estab- 
lish a natural system. Jussieu made the first successful attempt to 
build up such a system. Among- the French, de Candolle, and among- 
the English, Robert Brown, the two Hookers, and Lindley perfected it. 
In Germany, and especially in Austria, it found its most perfect ex- 
pression in our genial and renowned compatriot, Professor Stephan 
Endlicher, with whom must be mentioned his friends and colleagues. 
Professors Fenzl and linger, my highly-esteemed teachers. 

The change which the natural system produced in the direction of 
botanical research, ever made it more necessary to study out the laws 
of the growth, foruuxtion, reproduction, and propagation of plants; to 
find out with accuracy the relations existing- between their dilferent 
organs, and to investigate the origin and development of the whole 
plant and its separate parts, down to the most elementary organisms. 
Thus morphology became a separate branch of botany through the 
endeavors of Robert Brown, Roper, Alexander Braun, Schleideu, 
Schacht, Hofmeister, and others. 

Morphological studies naturally led to a more accurate consideration 
of the structure and the processes of plant-life. The microscope had 
meanwhile been greatly improved, and many botanists took up this 
branch with i)redilection. In this way the anatomy and physiology of 
plants reached a point, through the excellent labors of Hugo von Mohl, 
linger, Kiigeli, Schachfe, and others, which had not before been thought 
possible. 

Excursions to all parts of the world were undertaken by courageous 
investigators, who not only enriched the science with a great many new 
forms, but rendered it possible to determine the laws of the distribution 
of plants over the whole earth; so that Alexander von Humboldt was 
enabled to produce a masterly- sketch of botanical geography. 

In a measure, as mutual intercourse was facilitated, more life was in- 
fused into scientific research ; a great number of scientific societies 
and periodicals were established where the results of investigations 
were deposited. So many of these publications appear now that it is 
extremely dilficult, if not im])0ssible, to examine them all. During this 
great progress of botany in generiU, the cryptogams were not neglected. 
Indeed, many of the most thorough scholars made a specialty of 
these simplest of organisms. The in)i)ortant discoveries became so 
numerous in this department that it was entirely revolutionized. 
I will endeavor to present to you a condensed view of the most im- 
portant achievements. For this purpose the material has been divided 
into five grou))s : algte, lichens, fungi, mosses, and ferns. In each of 



252 ON THE PRESENT STATE OF OUR 

these I sliall first consider the most important points of their morphol- 
ogy and anatomy, and afterward their classification. 

We will begin with the alga?. The reform in their study was inau- 
gurated by two works which appeared almost simultaneously, Kiitzing's 
Fhycologia universalis and Niigeli's latest algJB systems. Kiitzing pre- 
sents a view of his organographic and anatomical studies, and bases 
upon them a new system of alga?, illustrating it by means of j^lates. 
The Species Algarum and the Tabula' phycologica'^ containing a description 
and picture of all species of alga?, may be considered as supplements 
to his great work. Kiitzing, no doubt, had greater facilities for the 
study of alga? than almost any other investigator. He was the first to 
examine the separate organs and the structure of fuci, and to found 
this branch of phycology. lie broke up the classification of the old 
genera, which contained a chaotic mass of the most different forms, 
and separated them into natural groups. Unfortunately, Kiitzing re- 
jected the usual nomenclature, and employed one of his own, thus mak- 
ing his work very difficult to understand. In his classification he splits 
up his material into too many untenable species, making it almost im- 
possible to examine the whole. 

Niigeli exerted a no less important influence on the study of the al- 
gte. In his algiie systems and in his work on one-celled algae, this 
renowned anatomist shows his unsurpassed acuteness of observation in 
his description of the structure and mode of life of those small organ- 
isms which cannot be recognized with the unaided eye. He showedthat 
the increase of the separated cells depends upon malihematically determ- 
inable laws. These he developed for many species, and we may say that 
he created a sure mathematical basis for the study of the algoe. Since 
laws, valid in the whole vegetable kingdom, can be educed most easily 
from the alga?, the simplest organisms, Niigeli's researches are of great 
value to the whole science of botany. Starting from his discovered 
principles, Niigeli planned an algce system of his own ; but here he was 
less successful. 

Beside these two principal works, a great number of large and small 
dissertations have been published. Among these the following are 
the most important: The works of Alexander Brauu on the life and 
devel()i)inent of microscopic forms, are worthy of being placed side by side 
with those of Nageli. In them, and especially in the classical work on 
rejuvenation in the vegetable kingdom, he has produced real master- 
pieces of short but very attractively written monographs, calculated to 
excite the interest of every man of culture. Professor Cohu, another emi- 
nent scholar, has given to the world a series of masterly and thorough 
essays on the Volvociiuc, which had until then been classed as animals. 
De Barry's dissertation on the Conjugates does not fall short of the other 
essays. 

The brilliant discovery of the zoospores of algae was made by Pro- 
fessor Unger, who observed the formation oli these movable cells in 



KNOWLEDGE OF CRYPTOGAMOUS PLANTS. 253 

theVaucheria elavata DC, aiul i)roved that tLey possessed cilia as orgaus 
of locomotiou, and that tliey genniiiated into a plant like tlie parent. 
Many investigators have furnished further data concerning the 
existence and the structure of these interesting bodies, but the 
most complete researches were published by Thuret in h«is essay, ^^ Siir 
Jes zoospores dcs aJgccs."' lie had observed zoospores in sereral hun- 
dred species, and illustrated th.^ni in a masterly manner. We learn 
from these investigations that the above spores are the unsexual organs 
of reproduction in the algie, and may be compared to the buds of 
higher plants. 

The interesting and instructive i)rocess of fructification in alga^, has 
been studied with equal accuracy. Although the great physicist, 
lleannnir, had suspected the existence of organs of fructilication in 
fuci, Thuret was the lirst to prove it directly and scientifically. lie 
demonstrated that the small indentations on the surface of the FucacccVy 
the so-called conceptacles, contained both the male and female organs 
of fructificntion, (the antheridia and oogonia;) he observed the forma- 
tion of antherozoids and the penetration of the spermatic filaments into 
them ; he explained how the spore was developed after fructification. 
In fresh-water alga^, Pringsheim first succeeded in directly proving 
the existence of fructifying organs in the Vauchcria, Ocdogonium, and 
ColcocJia'te. Cohn followed with his interesting observations of the 
^Sphaeroplea annuUna and the Yolvocimv. These observations prove the 
following mode of fructification in the alga^: the so-called seed fila- 
ments penetrate the membraneless mass of the antherozoids, which are 
then snrrounded by a cellular membrane and converted into stationary 
spores. These are the direct opposites of zoosi^ores, and may be com- 
I)ared to the seeds of higher plants. 

The results of this and many other researches have enabled us to 
gain sufficient insight into the growth, reproduction, and propagation 
of these plants, and it will be the task of coming investigators to con- 
tinue the work on this basis. 

If we now turn to the classification of the algie, Ave shall see that 
excursions to the different seas of every zone have enlarged our ac- 
quaintance with the forms of this class. Excursions to the Antarctic 
and to the northern part of the Pacific Ocean have furnished us with 
the grandest specimens of lichens, and have shown us that marine 
vegetation does not reach its highest development in the tropical 
oceans, but m the Arctic and Antarctic polar seas. Kiitzing's and 
Niigeli's contributions have already been mentioned. In the third sup- 
plement to his Goieribus J*Jaiit(irum, Endlicher i)ublishe(l, together with 
Diessing, a systematic table of this class, distinguished by the happy- 
arrangement into families and genera. A very important work is 
Species f/cnera ct ordincs aJgarnm, by Aghard the younger, which, al- 
though it only contains the Fucoidcw and Floridea', surpasses all other 
publications in the original natural grouping of his mattjrials, and by 



254 ON THE PRESENT STATE OF OUR 

liappily keeping" within bounds in liis subdivisions. Besides Agbard's 
work, we must mention the pubUcations of Harvey on the Antarctic 
algae, the works of Postels and Ruprecht on the algge of the north 
Pacific Ocean, and a number of monographs on single families or 
floras. 1 can only name the most i mportant ; to enumerate them all would 
lead me too far: the works of Smith and Ealfs on the British Dia- 
toms and Besmids, that of De Barry on Conjugate, the beautiful es- 
says of A. Brauu, and among the Austrians the excellent publications 
of Grunow, especially on Diatoms. Finally, T must not forget to men- 
tion that Dr. Eabenhorst has done much to promote the difi'us'iou of 
accurate knowledge concerning;, the species of cryptogamous plants by 
his work on the Cryptogamic Flora of Germany, and by his later publi- 
cations, especially his dried collection of cryptogams. 

The structure of the vegetative organs of the small but interesting^ 
group of Ckaracew was investigated by the interesting labors of Bischoff 
and A. Braun. Thuret published important information concerning 
the antheridia; Carl Miiller investigated fructification, and Pring- 
sheim germination. Their classification was improved, especially by 
A. Braun, from whose master hand we may expect a monograph of the 
Characetc. 

If we now turn to the lichens, we will see that the views of the pe- 
riod of Linne's system long remained in credit, and that reform was 
late and gradual. Consequently the number of eminent discoveries 
in this department has been smaller, and its organography is still far 
from being satisfactory. Speersehneider, it is true, has furnished us 
with some valuable data concerning the structure and manner of 
growth of the thallus; but we are indebted for the most accurate in- 
formation on this subject to Schwendener, who has published in two 
dissertations the result of his investigations of shrubby and foliaceous 
lichens. We know now that the thallus of lichens consists of three 
different layers, an outer orenvelope forminglongfibrous cells, a middleor 
gonidinm composed of roundish cells filled with chlorophyll, and an 
inner or i)itli ot the same structure as the outer. The behavior of these 
three layers, which was investigated particularly by Schwendener, fur- 
nishes many points for classification. Korber has published an excellent 
dissertation on the gonidia or generating cells of lichens. lie states that 
these cells break through the envelope, become changed and converted 
into the so-called soredia. These observations establish the fact that 
the soredia are the organs of generation of lichens, and correspond to 
the buds of higher plants. 

Many have studied the bowl-shaped fruit or apothecium of lichens, 
but the data are scattered through different works. Tulasne's work, 
"*S'Hr VAppareil Roprodnctenr dcs Liehencs,''^ is of special importance, 
since it proves that lichens have another kind of fruit, forming small 
dents and containing minute, straight, and narrow cells. They are 
called spermagonia, and are probably the male organs of fructification. 



KNOWLEDGE OF CRYPTOGAMOUS PLANTS. 255 

The process of fructification has hitherto been observed with certainty' 
by Karsteu in the Coenogonium ow\y. 

The excellent works of Elias Pries and Wallroth, which date back to 
the sway of Linne's system, are still of great importance for purposes 
of classification. Von Flotow has indirectly exerted great influence on 
the study of lichens. His most prominent scholar, Korber, has inaugu- 
rated a great reform in his two principal works, the Lichcnes Gcrmanuc 
and the Parergis Uchenologicis. He created a new system, resting upon 
an anatomical and organographic basis, and made more natural and 
sharply defined subdivisions. He was ably assisted in his work by our 
compatriot Massalongo, whose tables are unfortunately incorrect. The 
works of Mylander are of great value ; his SgnopsiH Liclienum comprises 
all known species. Its publication is still continued. Hepp did much 
to make the European species known by the description of his collec- 
tions and the investigation of their spores. Finally, we must not pass 
over the works of Krempelhuber, wliic^h are at present confined to do- 
mestic species ; but this excellent scholar will soon have a more exten- 
sive field of operation. 

We now come to the largest and most interesting, but at the same 
time the most difficult class of cryptogams — the fungi. Their sudden 
appearance and growth, their ephemeral nature, and the multiplicity of 
their forms, have always been a source of trouble to investigators, and 
even the most indefatigable of modern mycologists have been able to 
lift but partmlly the veil which hangs over the life and development of 
these organisms. 

Far ahead of its time in organography stands the work of Professor 
linger, on the exanthema of plants ; for in it we find the first attempt 
to describe the development of mildew-fungi. Although the leading 
idea of the whole work, that these fungi were the diseased products of 
the plants on which they are found, was not confirmed, the rich treasure 
of new facts laid down in this beautiful work retains its full value. 
Corda, another fellow-countryman, has also written on fungi, and dis- 
covered many interesting forms in the fungi of mold. He was thus 
enabled to gain some insight into the life and development of these 
organisms. In his princijial work, the Iconcs Fungorum, he represents 
all forms of fungi known to him ; but some of his observations have 
unfortunately been hastily made and consequently inaccurate. But we 
should not forget that Corda lived in unfavorable external circumstances; 
that for along time he had not the means of procuring a microscope, and 
that he finally met with a tragical death. The ship in which he had 
gone to Texas in 1849 foundered on his return voyage to Euroi)e, and 
nothing has been heard of him since. The works of the Tulasne "broth- 
ers throw new light on many chapters of this branch of study. They 
show that there exists a great difference between the fungi of mildew 
and those of mold ; that in the former not only spermogonia, but also 
spores of different forms are produced, which had formerly been dis- 



256 ON THE PEESENT STATE OF OUR 

tributed among differeut genera. They also studied the interesting 
process by which the germs and spores of the mildew-fungi are devel- 
oped. In their classical dissertation, " Sur VEnjot de Seiglc,^^ they 
showed that the well-known black fungus, or germ, as well as all other 
similar forms hitherto classed as Sclerotics, were not perfectly developed 
organisms, but rather a peculiar kind of mycelium^ analogous to the 
tubers of higher plants. It is from them that the Iructifyiug fungi are 
developed. In the great work, " Fungi hypogei,-^ the above-mentioned 
authors give us a more thorough acquaintance with truffles than their 
predecessors, and, in their essays on the Ascoimjcctcc, they lay before 
us many interesting points about these organisms, proving that they 
contain several kinds of spores, as well as spermogonia and spermatia. 
In their principal work, the Selecta Fungorum carpologica, the Tulasue 
brothers present to us a rich collection of observations, the introduction 
to which is of especial interest because it furnishes a view of the results 
of morphological researches. The tables are executed in a masterly 
manner, and leave all similar productions far behind. In the same de- 
partment the Germans are well represented by De Barry. He consid- 
erably extended our knowledge of mildew-fungi, and was the first to 
make experiments on the inoculation of their spores. He succeeded 
in discovering the remarkable history of the development of mucus- 
fungi. He showed that in them the mycelium is wanting, and that 
from the germinating spore a x>eculiar body is formed, which is gradu- 
ally converted into Plasmodium, a substance without an analogue in the 
vegetable kingdom, and finally into the perfect fungus. De Barry 
studied the potato fungus, and proved the existence of zoospores in it, 
and in others of the same family. Finally, he discovered the organs of 
fructification of fungi in a parasite [Pcrono^pora Ahincarum Casp.) lining 
oil the Stellaria media. The results of his brilliant discovery were fully 
confirmed by Pringsheim's masterly observation of the Saprolegmia, in 
which the latter also found zoospores and similar fructification. Cor- 
responding results were found by Ilofmeister in the iecundation of 
truffles. According to these observations the fructification of fungi 
takes place as follows : The antheridium touches the vogonium, one of 
its processes i)enetrating an oi)ening in the membrane of the latter and 
discharging either seed, filaments, or its contents, which are commu- 
nicated to the antherozoid. The latter, which before was membraneless, 
is now surrounded with a cellular membrane, and becomes the station- 
ary spore of the plant. Hoffman has m^de comprehensive researches 
on the germination of the spores of fungi, and Pasteur's excellent works 
give us information on the part which fungi play in fermentation, by 
proving that they are nothing more than common mold-fungi in a pe- 
culiar stage of development. All these achievements, great as they 
may seem, are nothing more than preparatory labors for the solution of 
the organography of fungi, a great problem of the future. 
The works of Elias Pries are the standard on the classification of 



KNOWLEDGE OF CRYPTOGAMOUS PLx\XTS. 2,) t 

t'nug'i. vSiiice tlie publication of liis ^ysiema Dnjcologicum, about forty 
years ago, no work bas appeared which inchicles all orders, geuera, and 
species of this class. Indeed, the works of Fries are so excellent that 
they may be held up as models to all botanical authors. The writer, who 
passed a third of his unusually long life in the woods, where he studiiMl 
fungi, acquired a wider experience than any other. He has grouped the 
geuera naturally, and described the species with true Linnean precision. 
His work is, therefore, the basis of all mycological studies. The other 
authors contented themselves either with writing local iloras or study- 
ing single orders for the purpose of furnishing materials for a future 
Si/sfema mycologlmnn. Many excellent works of this kind have been pro- 
duced, especially those of Leveille, Bonorden, Fresenius, De Barry, aud 
the thorough treatises on exotic forms by Montaigne and Berkeky. 

In the class of the mosses, the morphological studies of many thor- 
ough scholars have progressed so iar that these plants are now among 
the most perfectly known. Mirbel has furnished interesting data on 
the structure of the leaves aud the development of the sporangia of the 
Marchant'ia poJymor})lia. The works of Bischoffon liverworts, although 
treating chiefly of classilication, i^resent a great many new^ observations 
on the structure and development of the fruit. The excellent natural 
history of liverworts by IS'ees von Esenbeck,to which I will revert again, 
lurnishes many important contributions to orgauography. A celebrated 
essay of Hugo von Mold on the spores of acrogeus proves that four 
spores are formed in every cell, analogous to the formation of pollen- 
cells. Gottschee, finally, has published very thorough essays on the 
structure aud development of single groups of liverworts. All these 
writings are left in the shade, however, as far as the organography of 
ferns and mosses is concerned, by those of IJofmeister, the most prom- 
inent investigator of the subject. This excellent scholar has set him- 
self the task of pursuing the development of the acrogeus down to the 
simple cell, and he has succeeded in many cases. Through him we know 
how the germ of mosses is formed and grows, how the stem is devel- 
oped, and how the leaves appear and form. We not only understand 
the structure of the antheridia perfectly, aud know how the seed fila- 
ments are formed, but we have also gained an insight into the structure 
of the archegouia. We are able to follow exactly the process of fructi- 
fication, and see how the complicated moss-fruit is developed after fruc- 
tifieation by the archegonium, from the riccia, the most simple type, up 
to the most highly-developed forms, according to one fundamental idea, 
llofmeister has illustrated all these discoveries with excellent drawings, 
so that tlie study of his masterpiece, "Comparative investigations iu 
the development of the higher cryptogams," is one of the most grate- 
ful tasks, although it is a very laborious one, on account of the peculiar 
manner in which it is written. 

Hofmeister's work is also the most important source for the morpho- 
logical study of foliaceous mosses. ^JSTageli has determined the laws of 
- 17 « 71 



258 ON THE PRESENT STATE OF OUR 

growth of tlie vegetative organs with the same mastery as iu liis treatise 
0!i the algiP. Hugo vou Mohl explains in a very simple manner the 
interesting phenomena attending the vegetation of peat-mosses in a 
short but thorough essay on their perforated cells. Carl Miiller explains 
the remarkable existence of lamels on the leaves of the polytrichaceoe, 
and Lantzius Beuinga shows how the ripe capsule, the spores and the 
peristome are developed. Schimper's " it\'c/<erc/ics sur Vorganogmphie 
(les mousses^^ and the introduction of his " Synopsis Muscorum europaeo- 
rum^'' are of great value ; for, in both works, we not only find the results 
of organographic researches gathered, but we also find them enriched 
by numerous observations of his own. 

Passing to the most important works on classification, we must grant 
the first place to Xees von Esenbeck for his excellent natural history of 
European liverworts, since it is the foundation of our present views of 
this branch of botany. He divides up the genera of his predecessors 
in a very natural manner, and his descriptions of species are masterly. 
His distinguishing characteristics are always sharply defined. The 
principles applied with such excellent success on European species 
were also brought to bear on exotics by Kees von Esenbeck, Gottschee, 
and Lindenberg, who published together the Syno2)sis Hcpaticarnm, 
which is considered the standard work. Unfortunately, there are no 
illustrations of all species of this class ; for the best are still to be found 
in " British Jiingennannicc,''^ published 1820, or thereabouts, by Hooker. 
Lindenberg endeavored to supply the deficiency by his iSpecics Ilepati- 
canon, but after several excellent monographs of single genera had ap- 
peared the i)ublication ceased. Later ones were limited to the description 
of new material or the better description of single genera. Among 
them must be mentioned the excellent treatises of Gottschee, the Hcpa- 
ticw Javaniccc of Van der Sande Lacosta, and the works of Montaigne, 
Taylor, Mitten, and De Notaris. 

The appearance of the Bri/ohgia Europca Qxerched a reforming inllu- 
ence on the study of the mosses. Several excellent scholars, Avith W. 
Ph. Schimper at tlie head, determined to describe and depict all species 
of mosses known in Europe in a manner adequate to the demands of the 
time. They mutually controlled their results for fifteen years, when the 
work was completed in six stately volumes of more than six hundred 
tables, and it now forms our basis for the study of these plants. In it 
the genera were more naturally (although sometimes weakly) divided 
.and better arranged. In the description of the species, the organograph- 
,ical and anatomical points, especially the reticulation of the leaves, were 
for the first time considered. Excellent illustrations facilitate the recog- 
nition of the species, and make it possible in some cases whifth had 
before presented dilliculties. After the appearance of the Bryology, 
Schiuiper published a fine monograph on the European peatmoss, and 
a more general Si/nopsis ]\Iusc()nim Enropeorum. It is hoped that this 
excellent. scholar will soon be able to realize his long-cherished plan, the 



KNOWLEDGE OF CRYPTOGAMOUS PLANTS. 259 

publication of a work on all the mosses, for we may well cxi)ect some- 
tliiug excellent from liim. The next author of importance is C. JMiiller, 
who published a synopsis of all known mosses, in two volumes. lie de- 
serves our thorough ai)preciation for his diligence in collecting the ex- 
isting material. His views on system, however, are less happy. Led 
by the consideration of certain characteristics, he often classiiies very 
different species together, and separates those closely related. Among 
other writings on exotic mosses, we must mentioned ])ozy and ]\[olken- 
boer's " Musciinediii Arcliipdagi IndiclJ^ and their " BryoJogiaJaranica,"^ 
which was continued after their death by Van der Bosch, and Van der 
Sande Lacosta. They follow the same plan as the " Brijologla Enyopca^'^ 
and are, therefore, of great value. The works of Sullivant, on the moss 
flora of North America, and those of Wilson, Mitten, and Hampe, are 
also of considerable importance. 

In the last class, thatof the ferns, a series of tliemost important discov- 
eries was inaugurated by Nilgeli. He observed that the antheridia. or 
male organs of fructitication, were developed upon the prothallium, 
which originates directly from the germinating spore. Count Lesczyc 
Snininski followed np his discovery by proving that the prothallium 
contained also the archegonia or female organs. Through these two 
brilliant discoveries new prospects were opened for the morphology of 
ferns. We recognized that in this whole class of plans fructitication was 
effected on the small prothallium, and that the foliage, which we ha<l been 
accustomed to take for the whole plant, was developed only when fructifica- 
tion had taken place. Schacht, Mettenius, and especially llol'meister, 
deserve great credit for following- up these discoveries. The brilliant re- 
searches of the latter author in particular, have made known to us the 
exact process of fecundation, and we now understand that the so-called 
large and small spores of the selaginella and water-fern are nothing- 
more than the female and male organs of these plants. Ilofmeister has 
furthermore ascertained with unexampled acuteness the laws according" 
to which the leafy plant is developed from the impregnated germ- vesicle 
of the archegonium, and also how the stem grows, and how the fans are 
formed. Although Ilofmeister came to the erroneous conclusion that the 
latter were not true leaves, but peculiarly transforn^.ed branches, the value 
of the grand discoveries of this most original ami thorough of all orgauo- 
graphists of the acirogens renmins unimpaired. Hugo von Mold has 
drawn a masterly picture of tlu' structure of the stem of tree-ferns, in 
his classical desertation, which has since been developed more in detail, 
partly by himself and partly by otlier authors. The most thorough in- 
vestigation of the development of the iudusiuni and sporangium are due 
to iSchacht. 

Besides the older works of Kaulfuss and Kunze on the classifiea- 
tiou of ferns, we must mention especially the numerous pteridograpliic 
works of Hooker, which have considerably adxanced our knowledge of 
the subject by their excellent illustrytions. The works of K. 1>. Bresl 



2 GO PRESENT STATE OF KNOWLEDGE OF CRYPTOGAMOUS PLANTS. 

arc of g-reat importance, and of especial interesttoiis Austrians. In his 
" Tcnfamcn retridographife,''^ this thorough scholar has studied the retic- 
ulation of ferns more accurately than any of his predecessors, intro- 
duced new names, and endeavored to divide the class into more natural 
genera. Although he sometimes goes too far in this direction, we cannot 
but appreciate his earnestness, consistency, and extensive information. 
Fee attempted to follow in Presl's footsteps, but he was less successful, 
and his works must be used with caution. Our most distinguished 
l)teridographist, Metteuius, successfully opposed the tendency to split 
up the existing- material into too many untenable genera and species, in 
his excellent work on the ferns of the Leipsic botanic garden, and in a 
series of critical essays, which mostly appeared in the Senkeberg Mu- 
seum. May this distinguished scholar indefatigably pursue and ulti- 
mately attain his object ! Moore deserves great credit for his very crit- 
cal index of all ferns, for the introduction of many tropical specimens, 
and for publishing (together with Newman) the first work in which na- 
ture w^is successfully emplo^^ed to print herself. Lowe's " British and 
Exotic Ferns " is also a valuable illustrated work. Besides all these 
there are many special publications on single species. The following 
are among the most important: Milde's Essays on the Equisetaceaj and 
Domestic Ferns; Presl Van der Bosch and Metteuius on Hymeuophylleffi; 
Spring's Monograph of the Lycopodiacece ; aud A. Brauu on Isoetea?, 
and Water-Ferns in General. 

This then is a condensed review of the most important achievements 
in cryptogamy within the last few decades. Taking them altogether, 
we maj' say that this branch of botany has made more progress in this 
period than in all preceding times, and that it has now indeed become 
a science. The study of the cryptograms is no longer confined 
to a few isolated scholars as formerly, but it is exciting general 
interest, and many excellent investigators are making it their ia- 
vorite subject. Morphology was not only founded, but even completed 
and established for certain classes. Numerous and highly important 
anatomical and physiological data have been furnished ; the classifica- 
tion has in the last period been reformed in accordance with the latest 
views, and various authors have endeavored to obtain a natural arrange- 
ment of species, and have succeeded in many cases. 

Although much has been accomplished, much still remains tobe done, 
and we need the combined efforts of many. May, therefore, the interest 
in cryptogamous plants ever become more general and lively, and may, 
especially in Austria, many scholars and amateurs turn their attention 
to this branch of botany ! The most grateful results will surely reward 
their exertions. 



RECENT RESEARCHES ©X TME SECULAR VARIATIONS OF THE PLANETARY 

ORBlTSr 



Bv John N. Stockwell. 



The reciprocal gravitatiou of matter produces disturbaiicea in tlie 
motions of tlie heavenly bodie.Sj cansing them to deviate from the elliptic 
paths which they would follow, if they were attracted only by tlie sun. 
The determination of the amount by which the actual place of a planet 
deviates from its true elliptic place at any time is called the problem 
of planetary perturbation. The analytical solution of this problem has 
disclosed to mathematicians the fact that the inequalities in the motions 
of the heavenly bodies are produced in two distinct ways. Tlie first 
is a direct disturbance in the elliptic motion of the body; and ilia second 
is produced by reason of a variation of the elements of its elliptic motion. 
The elements of the elliptic motion of a planet are six in number, xiz : 
the mean motion of the planet and its mean distance from the sun, the 
eccentricity and inclination of its orbit, and the longitude of the node 
and perihelion. The first two are invariable; the other four are subject 
to both periodic and secular variations. 

The inequalities in the planetary motions which are produced by the 
direct action of the planets on each other, and depend for their amount 
only on their distances and mutual configurations, are culled periodic 
ineqmditics, because they pass through a complete cycle of values in a 
comparatively short period of time; while those depending on the varia- 
tion of the elements of the elliptic motion are produced with extreme slow- 
ness, and require an immense number of ages for their full develo[)ment, 
are called secular inequalities. The general theory of all the planetary 
inequalities was completely developed by La Grange and La Place, 
nearly a century ago; and the particular theory of each planet for the 
periodic inequalities was given by La Place in the Mecanique Celeste. 

The determination of the periodic inecpialities of the planets has hith- 
erto received more attention from astronomers than has been bestowed 
upon the secular inequalities. This is owing in part to the immediate 
re(iuirements of astronomy, and also in part to the less intricnte nature 
of the jiroblem. It is true that an approximate knowledge of the secu- 
lar inequalities is necessary in the treatment of the periodic inequalities ; 
but since the secular inequalities are produced with such extreme slow- 
ness, most astronomers have been content with the sn])position that 
they are developed uniformly with the time. This supposition is sufii- 

* lutroductiou to ti luumoir to be puljlished in the " SDiithsouiiin Coiitributious to 
Kuowled"'e." 



202 RECENT RESEARCHES ON THE 

cieutly near the truth to be admissible iu most astronomical investiga- 
tions during the comparatively short period of time over which astro- 
nomical observations or human history extends; but since the values 
of these variations are derived from the equations of the differential 
variations of the elements at a particular epoch, it follows that they 
afford us no knowledge respecting the ultimate condition of the plane- 
tary system, or even a near approximation to its actual condition at a 
time only comparatively remote from the epoch of the elements on which 
tliey are founded. But aside from any considerations connected with 
the immediate needs of practical astronomy, the study of the secular 
inequalities is one of the most interesting and important departments of 
physical science, because their indefinite continuance in the same direc- 
tion would ultimately seriously affect the stability of the planetary 
system. The demonstration that the secular inequalities of the planets 
are not indefinitely progressive, but may be expressed analytically by a 
series of terms depending on the sines and cosines of angles which 
increase uniformly with the time, is due to La Grange and La Place. 
It therefore follows that the secular inequalities are periodic, and differ 
from the ordinary periodic inequalities only in the length of time required 
to complete the cycle of their values. The amount by which the elements 
of any i)lanet may ultimately deviate from their mean values can only be 
determined by the simultaneous integration of the differential equations 
of these elements, which is equivalent to the summation of all the infi- 
nitesimal variations arising from the disturbing forces of all the planets 
of the system during the lapse of an infinite period of time. 

The simultaneous integration of the equations which determine the 
instantaneous variations of the elements of the orbits gives rise to a 
complete equation in which the unknown quantity is raised to a power 
denoted by the number of planets, whose mutual action is considered. 
La Grange first showed that if any of the roots of this equation were 
equal or imaginary, the finite expressions for the values of the elements 
would contain terms involving arcs of circles or exponential quantities, 
without the functions of sine and cosine, and as these terms would 
increase indefinitely with the time, they would finally render the orbits 
so very eccentrical that the stability of the planetary system would be 
destroyed. Iu order to determine whether the roots of the equation 
were all real and unequal, he substituted the approximate values of the 
elements and masses whi(;h were enq)loyed by astronomers at that time 
in the algebraic equations, and then by determining the roots he 
found them to be all real and unequal. It, therefore, followed, that for 
the particular values of the masses employed by La Grange, the equa- 
tions which determine the secular variations contain neither arcs of a 
circle nor exponential quantities, without the signs of sine and cosine; 
Avhence it follows that the elements of the orbits will perpetually oscil- 
late about their mean values. This investigation was valuable as a 
first attemjit to fix the limits of the variations t)f the planetary elements; 



SECULAR VARIATIONS OF THE PLANETARY ORBITS. 263 

but, being based upon vahies of the masses wliicli were, to a certain 
extent, gratuitously assumed, it was desirable tliat the important truths 
which it indicated should be established iudependeutl^' of any conside- 
rations of a hypothetic character. This magnificent generalization was 
elTected by La Place. He proved that, whatever be the relative masses 
of the planets, the roots of the equations which determine the periods 
of the secular inequalities will all be real and unequal, provided the 
bodies of the system are subjected to this one condition, that they all 
revolve round the sun in the same direction. This condition being satisfied 
by all the members of the solar system, it follows that the orbits of the 
planets will never be very eccentrical or much inclined to ea(;h other by 
reason of their nnitual attraction. The important truths iii relation to 
the forms and positions of the planetary orbits are embodied in the two 
following theorems by the author of the Mecanique Celeste : I. If the mass 
of each planet he multiplied hjj the product of the square of the eccentricity 
and square root of the mean distance, the sum of all these products will 
always retain the same magnitude. II. If the mass of each planet he mul- 
tiplied hy the product of the square of the inclination of the orbit and the 
square root of the mean distance, the S7im of these products will always 
remain invariable. Now, these quantities being computed for a given 
epoch, if their sum is found to be small, it follows from the preceding 
theorems that they will always remain so; consequently the eccentri- 
cities and inclinations cannot increase indefinitely, but will always be 
confined within narrow limits. 

In order to calculate the limits of the variations of the elements with 
precision, it is necessary to know the correct values of the masses of all 
the planets. Unfortunately, this hnowledge has not yet been attained. 
The masses of several of the planets are found to be considerably ditler- 
ent from the values employed by La Grange in his investigations. 
Besides, he only took into account the action of the six principal planets 
which are within the orbit of Uranus. Consequently his solution afforded 
only a first approximation to the limits of the secular variations of the 
elements. 

The person who next undertook the computation of the secular ine- 
qualities was Pontecoulant, who, about the year 1831, published the 
third volume of his Theoric Analytique du Systeme du Monde. In this 
work he has given the results of his solution of this intricate problem. 
But the numerical values of the constants which he obtained are totally 
erroneous on account of his failure to employ a sufficient number of 
decimals in his computation. Our knowledge of the secular variations 
of the planetary orbits was, therefore, not increased by his researches. 

In 1839 Le Verrier had completed his computation of the secular ine- 
qualities of the seven principal planets. This mathematician has given a 
new and accurate determination of the constants on which the amount of 
the secular inequalities depend; and has also given the coefficients for 
correcting the values of the constants for differential variations of the 



264 RECENT EESEARCIIES ON THE 

masses of the different planets. This investigation of Le Verrier's has 
been used as tlie groundwork of most of the subsequent corrections of 
the planetary elements and masses, and deservedly holds the first rank 
as authority concerning the secular variations of the planetary orbits. 
But Le Verrier's researches were far from being exhaustive, and he 
failed to notice some curious and interesting relations of a permanent 
character in the secular variations of the orbits of Jupiter, Saturn, and 
Uranus. Besides, the planet Neptune had not then been discovered ; 
and the action of this planet considerably modifies the secular inequali- 
ties which would otherwise take place. We will now briefly glance at 
the results of our own Inbors on the subject. 

On the first examination of the works of those authors who had investi- 
gated this problem, we perceived that the methods of reducing to num- 
bers those analytical integrals which determine the secular variations 
of the elements, were far from possessing that elegance and symmetry 
of form which usually characterizes the formulas of astrouomj'. The 
first step, therefore, was to devise a system of algebraic equations, by 
means of which we should be enabled to obtain the values of the unknown 
(juantities with the smallest amount of labor. It was soon found to be 
impracticable to deduce algebraic formulas for the constants, by the 
elimination of eight unknown quantities from as many linear symmet- 
rical equations, of sufiicient simplicity to be used in the deduction of 
exact results. It therefore became necessary to abandon the idea of a 
direct solution of the equations, and to seek for the best approximative 
method of obtaining rigorous values of the unknown quantities. This 
we have accomplished as completely as could be desired, and by means 
of the formulas which we have obtained, it is now possible to determine 
the secular variations of the planetary elements, with less labor, perhaps, 
than would be necessary for the accurate determination of a comet's 
orbit. The method and formulas are given in detail in a Memoir on the 
Secular Variations of the Elements of the Orbits of the Eight Princijml 
Flancts, now being published in vol. XVIII, of the iSmithsoniau Contri- 
butions to Knoiclcdge. 

After computing anew the numerical coefficients of the differential 
equations of the elements, we have substituted them in these equations, 
and have obtained, by means of successive approximations, the rigorous 
values of the constants corresponding to the assumed masses and ele- 
ments. The details of the computation are given in the memoir referred 
to, and it is unnecessary to speak of them here. We shall, therefore, 
only briefly allude to some of the conclusions to which our computa- 
tions legitimatelj- lead. 

The object of our investigation has been the determination of the 
numerical values of the secular changes of the elements of the planet- 
ary orbits. These elements are four in number, viz : the eccentricities 
and inclinations of the orbits, and the longitudes of the nodes and 
perihelia. The questions that may legitimately arise in regard to the 



SECULAR VARIATIONS OF THE PLANETARY ORBITS. 2G5 

eoceutricities and incliuatious relate cliiefly to tlieir inngiiitiidb at any 
time; but we ma}" also desire to kuow their rates of cliaiige at any time, 
aud the limits within which they will perpetually oscillate. In regard 
to the nodes and perihelia, it is sometimes necessary to know their rela- 
tive positions when referred to any plane and origin of coordinates ; 
aud also their mean motions, together with the amount by which tlieir 
actual places can differ froai their mean places. Witli respect to the 
magnitudes and iiositious of the elements, together with their rates of 
change, we may observe that our equations will give them for any 
required epoch, by merely substituting in the formulas the interval of 
time between the epoch required and that of the formulas, which is the 
beginning of the year 1850. An extended tabulation of the variations 
of the elements does not come within the scope of our work ; and we 
leave the comi)utation of the elements for special epochs to those inves- 
tigators who may need them in their researches. We shall here give 
tlie limits between which the eccentricities and inclinations will alvrays 
oscillate, together with the mean motions of the perihelia and nodes 
on the fixed ecliptic of 1850 ; and shall also give the in(;linatious aud 
nodes referred to the invariable plane of the planetary system. 

For the planet Mercury, we find that the eccentricity is always included 
within the limits 0.12111)43 and 0.2317185. The mean motion of its 
perihelion is 5".4G3803 ; and it i^erforms a complete revolution in the 
heavens in 237,197 years. The maximum inclination of his orbit to the 
fixed ecliptic of 1850 is 10° 30' 20", and its minimum inclination is 
3^ 17' 8" ; while with respect to the invariable plane of the planetary 
system, the limits of the inclination are 9^ 10' 41" and 4P 44' 27". The 
mean motion of the node of Mercury's orbit on the ecliptic of 1850, and 
on the invariable plane, is in both cases the same, aud equal to o".12G172, 
making a complete revolution in the interval of 252,823 years. Tiie 
amount by which the true place of the node can differ from its mean 
place on the ecliptic of 1850 is equal to 33^ 8', while on the invariable 
plane this limit is only 18^ 31'. 

For the planet Venus, we find that the eccentricity always oscillates 
oetween and 0.070G329. Since the theoretical eccentricity of the orbit 
of Venus is a vanishing element, it follows that the perihelion of her 
orbit can have no mean motion, but may have any rate of motion, at 
different times, between nothing aud infinity, both direct and retrograde. 
The position of her perihelion cannot therefore be determined within 
given limits at any very remote epoch by the assumption of any par- 
ticular value for the mean motion, but it must be determined by direct 
computation from the finite formulas. The maximum inclination of her 
orbit to the ecliptic of 1850 is 4° 51', and to the invariable plane it is 
3° 1G'.3 ; while the mean motion of her node on both planes is indeter- 
minate, because the inferior limit of the inclination is in each case 
equal to nothing. 

A knowledge of the elements of the earth's orbit is especially inter-" 
esting and important on account of the recent attempts to establish a 



26G EECENT RESEARCHES ON THE 

connection between geological phenomena and terrestrial temperatures, 
in so far as the latter is modified by the variable eccentricity for her 
orbit. The amount of light and heat received from the sun in the course 
of a year depends to an important extent on the eccentricity of the 
earth's orbit ; but the distribution of the same over the surface of the 
earth depends on the relative position of the perihelion of the orbit 
with respect to the equinoxes, and on the obliquity of the ecliptic to the 
equator. These elements are subject to great and irregular variations; 
but their laws can now be determined with as much precision as the 
exigencies of science may require. We will now more carefully examine 
these elements, and the consequences' to which their variations give rise. 

As we have already computed the eccentricity of the earth's orbit at 
intervals of 10,000 years, during a period of 2,000,000 years, by employ- 
ing the constants which correspond to the assumed mass of the earth 
increased hy its twentieth part, we here give the elements correspond- 
ing to this increased mass. We therefore find that the eccentricity of 
the earth's orbit will always be included within tlie limits of and 
0.0693888 5 ^^^ i^ consequently follows that the ^>?c«m motion of the peri- 
helion is indeterminate, although the actual motion and position at any 
time during a period of 2,000,000 years can be readily found by means 
of the tabular value of that element. The eccentricity of the orbit at 
any time can also be found by means of the same table. 

The inclination of the apparent ecliptic to the fixed ecliptic of 1850, 
is always less that -iP 41' ; while its inclination to the invariable plane 
of the planetary system always oscillates within the limits 0° 0' and 
3° 6'. It is also evident that the mean motion of the node of the 
apparent ecliptic on the fixed ecliptic of 1850, and also on the invariable 
plane, is wholly indeterminate. 

The mean value of the precession of the equinoxes on the fixed eclip. 
tic, and also on the apparent ecliptic, in a Julian year, is equal to 
50".438239 ; Avhence it follows, that the equinoxes perform a complete 
revolution in the heavens in the average interval of 25,091.8 years; but 
on account of the secular inequalities in their motion, the time of revo- 
lution is not always the same, but may diHer from the mean time of 
revolution by 281.2 years. We also find that if the place of the equinox 
be computed for any time whatever, by using the mean value of preces- 
sion, its place when thus determined can never differ from its true place 
to a greater extent than 3° 50' 20". The maximum and minimum values 
of precession in a Julian year are 52".G01080 and 48".212398, respect- 
ively, and since the length of the tropical year depends on the annual 
l^recessiou, it follows that the maximum variation of the tropical year 
is equal to the mean time required for the earth to describe an arc which 
is equal to the maximum variation of precession. Now this latter quan- 
tity being 4".451G82, and the sidereal motion of the earth in a second of 
time being 0".041067, it follows that the maximum variation of the tropi- 
cal year is equal to 108.40 seconds of time. Ii>like manner, if we take 



SECULAR VARIATIONS OF THE PLANETARY ORBITS. 2G7 

the difference between the present value of precession and the maximum 
and miiiiuuim values of tlie same quautit}', we shall tind that the tropi- 
cal year may be shorter than at present by 59.13 seconds, and longer 
than at present l>y 49.27 seconds. \Ye also find that the tropical year 
is now shorter than in the time of llipparchus, by 11.30 seconds. 

The obliquity of the equator to the ai>parent ecliptic, and also to the 
fixed ecliptic of 1850, has also been determined. The variations of this 
element follow a law similar to that Avhich governs the variation of i)re- 
cession, although the maximum values of the inequalities are consider- 
ably smaller than those which affect this latter quantity. The mean 
value of the obliquity of both the apparent and fixed ecliptics to the 
equator is 23° 17' 17". The limits of the obliquity of the apparent ecliptic 
to the equator are 21° 35' oS" and 21° 58' 3G"; w^hence it follows that the 
greatest and least declinations of the sun at the solstices can never diHer 
from each other to any gxeater extent than 2° 37' 22". And here we may 
mention a few, among the many happy consequences, which residt from 
the spheroidal form of the earth. Were the earth a perfect sphere there 
would be no precession or change of obliquity arising" from the attraction 
ofthesunand moon; the equinoctial circle would form an invariable 
plane in the heavens, about which the solar orbit would revolve with an 
inclination varying to the extent of twelve degrees, and a motion equal 
to the planetary precession of the equinoctial points. The sun, when at 
llie solstices, would, at some periods of time, attain the declination of 
29^17', for many thousands of years; and again, at other periods, only 
to 17^ 17'. The seasons would be subject to vicissitudes depending on 
the distance of the tropics from the equator, and the distribution of solar 
light and heat on the surface of the earth would be so modilied as essen- 
tially to change the character of its vegetation, and the distribution of 
its animal life. But the spheroidal form of the earth so modifies the 
secular changes in the relative positions of the equator and ecliptic that 
the inequalities of precession and obliquity" are reduced to less than one- 
quarter part of what they would otherwise be. The periods of the secular 
changes, which, in the case of a spherical earth, would require nearly 
two millions of years to ])ass through a complete cycle of values, are now 
reduced to periods which vary between 20,000 and 53,000 years. The 
secular motions which would take place in the case of a spherical earth 
are so modified by the actual condition of the terrestrial globe that 
changes in the position of the equinox and equator are now produced in 
a few centuries, which would otherwise require a period of many thou- 
sands of years. This consideration is of much importance in the investi- 
gation of the reputed antiquity and chronology of those ancient nations 
wliicli attained proficiency in the science of astronomy, and the records 
of whose astronomical labors are the only remaining- monument of a 
highly intellectual people, of whose existence every other trace has long" 
since passed away. For it is evident that, if these changes were much 
slower than they are, a much longer time would be rcfiuired in order to 
produce changes of sufficient magnitude to be detected by observation, 



268 RECENT RESEARCHES ON THE 

and we should be unable to estimate the interval between the epochs of 
elements which differed by only a few thousand years, shice they would 
manifestly be so nearly identical with our own that the value of legitimate 
conclusions would be greatly impaii'ed by the unavoidable errors of the 
observations on which they were based. 

The duration of the different seasons is also greatly modified by the 
eccentricity of the earth's orbit. At i)resent the sun is north of the 
equator scarcely ISOi days, and south of the same circle about 178f days ; 
thus making a difference of 7f days between the length of the summer 
and winter at present. But when the eccentricity of the orbit is nearly 
at its maximum, and its transverse axis also passes through the solstices, 
both of Avhich conditions have, in past ages, been fulfilled, the summer, 
in one hemisphere, will have a period of 19S| days, and a winter of only 
166Jdays, while, in the other hemisphere, these conditions will be re- 
versed 5 the winter having a period of 198^ days, and a summer of only 
166^ days. The variations of the sun's distance from the earth in the 
course of a year, at such times, is also enormous, amounting to almost 
one-seventh part of its mean distance — a quantity scarcely less than 
13,000,000 of miles ! 

Passing now to the consideration of the elements of the planet Mars, 
we find that the eccentricity of his orbit always oscillates within the 
limits 0.018475 and 0.139G55 ; and the mean motion of his perihelion is 
17".781156. The maximum incliuation of his orbit to the fixed ecliptic 
of 1850, and to the invariable plane of the planetary system, is 7° 28' and 
50 50' respectively. The minimum inclination to both planes being 
nothing, the mean motion of the node is indeterminate. 

The secular variations of the orbits of Jupiter, Saturn, Uranus, and 
Neptune, present some curious and interesting relations. These four 
planets compose a system by themselves, v.hich is practically independ- 
ent of the other planets of the system. 

The maximum and minimum limits of the eccentricity of the orbits of 
these four planets are as follows : 

iMaxiumm eccentricity. Minimum eccentricity. 

Jupiter 0.0G08271 0.0251928 

Saturn 0.0813289 0.0123719 

Uranus 0.0779G52 0.011757G 

Xeptune 0.01150GG 0.0055729 

The maximum and minimum inclinations of their orbits to the invari- 
able plane of the planetary system have the following values : 

Maximum iucliuation. Minimum incliuation. 

Jupiter 0^ 28' 5G{' 0° 1 1' 23" 

Saturn 1 39 17 IG 

Uranus 1 7 10 5125 

Keptune 17 21 33 13 



SECULAR VARIATIONS OF THE PLANETARY ORBITS. 2G9 

The perihelia and nodes of their orbits liave the following- mean mo- 
tions in a Jnlian year of 365:^ days : 

Mean motiou of pcrihi'Iion, Mean motion of node on the 

invarialde plane. 

Jupiter + S^.TIGGO" — 25".931."iG7 

Saturn +22 .4G0848 — 25 .9345G7 

Uranus + 3 .71GG07 — 2 .91G082 

Keptune + .G1GGS5 — .GGlGGo 

But the most curious relation developed by this investigation per- 
tains to the relative motions and positions of the perihelia and nodes of 
the three planets Jupiter, Saturn, and Uranus. These relations are ex- 
pressed by the two following theorems : 

I. The onean mol 1071 of JH2)itcy''s perihelion is cxactJij equal to the mean 
motion of the perihcJion of Uranus, and the mean longitudes of fnese peri- 
helia differ by exactly ISO"^. II. The mean motion of Ju2)iter''s node on the 
inrariahle plane is exactly equal to that of Saturn, and the mean longitudes 
of these nodes differ by exactly 180^. 

We also perceive that the mean motion of Saturn's perihelion is very 
nearly six times that of Jupiter and Uranus, and this latter quantity is 
very nearly six times that of x^eptune ; or, more exactly, 085 times the mean 
motion of Jupiter's perihelion is equal to 1G3 times that of Saturn^ andi-iO 
times the mean motion of JSTeptune's perihelion is equal to 73 times that of 
Jupiter and Uranus. The perihelion of Saturn's orbit performs a com- 
plete revolution in the heavens in 57,700 years; the perihelia of Jupiter 
and Uranus in 348,700 years; while that of Neptune requires no less 
that 2,101, 5G0 years to complete the circuit of the heavens. In like 
manner the nodes of Jupiter and Saturn, on the invariable plane, perform 
a complete revolution in 49,972 years ; that of Uranus in 444,432 years; 
while the no<le of Neptune requires 1,958,G92 years to traverse the cir- 
cumference of the heavens. The motions of the nodes are retrograde 
and those of the perihelia are direct ; thus conforming to the same law 
of variation as that which obtains in the corresponding elements of the 
moon's motion. 

TTe may here observe that the law which controls the motions and 
positions of the perihelia of the orbits of Jupiter and Uranus isoftlie utmost 
importance in relation to their mutual perturbations of Saturn's orbit. 
Uoi', in the existing arrangement, the orbit of Saturn is affected on\y by 
tlie difference of the i)ertur!)ations by Jupiter and Uranus; whereas, if 
the mean places of the perihelia of these two planets w^ere the same, 
instead of differing by 180^, the orbit of Saturn would be affected by the 
sum of their disturbing forces. But notwithstanding- this lavoring con- 
dition, the elements of Saturn's orl)it would be subject to very g^reat 
perturbations from the superior action of Jupiter, were it not for the 
comparatively ra|)id motion of its perihelion ; its equilibrium being main- 
tained by the very act of perturbation. Indeed, the stabilit}^ of Saturn's 
orbit depends to a very great extent upon the rapidly varying positions 



270 RECENT EESE ARCHES OX THE 

of its transverse axis. For, if tlie motions of the perihelia of Jupiter 
and Saturn were very nearly the same, the action of Jupiter on the 
eccentricity of Saturn's orbit would be at its maximum value <luring- 
very loiij;- periods of time, and thereby produce great and permanent 
changes in the value of that element. But, in the existing conditions, 
the rapid motion of Saturn's orbit prevents such an accumulation of 
perturbation, and any increase of eccentricity is soon changed into a 
corresponding diminution. The same remark is also applicable to the 
perturbations of the forms of the orbits of Jupiter and Uranus by the 
disturbing action of Saturn ; for the secular variations of Jupiter's 
orbit depend almost entirely upon the influence of Saturn, because the 
planet IS^eptune is too remote to produce much disturbance, and the 
mean disturbing influence of Uranus on the eccentricity of Jupiter's 
orbit is identically equal to nothing, b\^ reason of the relation which 
always exists between the perihelia of their orbits. We may here observe 
that the eccentricity of the orbit of Saturn always increases, while that 
of Jupiter diminishes, and vice versa. 

The consequences which result from the mutual relations which alwaj'S 
exist between the nodes of Jupiter and Saturn, on the invariable plane 
of the planetary system, are no less interesting or remarkable with re- 
spect to the position of the orbit of Uranus than those which result 
from the permanent relation between the perihelia of Jupiter and Uranus 
are with respect to the form of the orbit of Saturn. The mean disturbing 
for^e of Saturn on the inclination of the orbit of Uranus is aljout four 
times that of Jupiter ; but as these two planets always act on the inclina- 
tions in opposite directions, it follows that the joint action of the two 
planets is equivalent to the action of a single planet at the distance of 
Saturn and liaving about three-fourths of his mass; so that the orbit of 
Uranus might attain a considerable inclination from the superior action 
of Saturn if allowed to accumulate during the lapse of an unlimited 
time, at its maximum rate of variation depending on the action of this 
planet. But such an accumulation of perturbation is rendered forever 
impossible by reason of the comparatively rapid motion of the nodes of 
Jupiter and Saturn, with respect to that of Uranus, on the invariable 
l)lane. By reason of this rapid motion, the secular changes of the inclina- 
tion of the orbit of Uranus pass through a complete cycle of values in 
the period of 50,300 years. The correspoiuling cycle of perturbation in 
the eccentricity of Saturn's orbit is (>!),1-J:0 years. It is the rapid 
motion of the orbit with respect to tlie forces in the one case, and 
the rapid motion of the forces with respect to the orbit, in the other, 
tliat gives permanence of form and position to the orbits of Saturn and 
Uranus. 

The mean angular distance between the perihelia of Jupiter and 
Uranus is exactly- 180^ ; but the conditions of the variations of these 
elements are sufficiently elastic to allow of a considerable deviation on 
each side of their mean positions. The perihelion of Jupiter may difler 



SECULAR VARIATIONS OF THE PLANETARY ORBITS. 271 

from its mean place to the extent of 24^ 10', and tliat of Uranus to the 
extent of -H^ o'o' ; and therefore the longitudes of the perihelia of these 
two planets can difter from ISO'^ to the extent of 71° 43'. The nearest 
approach of the perihelia of these two planets, is, therefore, 108° 17'. 

In like manner the longitudes of the nodes of Jupiter and Saturn, on 
the invariable plane, can suffer considerable deviations from their mean 
positions. The actual position of Jupiter's node may differ from its 
mean place to the extent of 19^ 3S' ; while that of S;iturn may deviate 
from its mean place to the extent of 7° 7'. It therefore follows that 
their longitudes on the invariable plane can ditter from 180^ by only 
2G^ 45'. Their nearest possible approach is 153^ 15', Avhile their present 
distance apart is IGG^ 27'. 

The inequalities in the eccentricity of Neptune's orbit are very small 
and the two ])rincipal ones have periods of 013,900 years, and 418,Oi;o 
years, respectively. Strictly spealcing, the periods of the secular inequali- 
ties of the eccentricities and perihelia are the same for all the planets; 
and the same remark is equally applicable to the nodes and inclinations. 
But the princii)al inequalities of the several planetary orbits are different, 
unless they are connected by «ome permanent relation, similar to that 
which exists between the perihelia of Jupiter and Uranus, or the nodes 
of Jupiter and Saturn. Thus the principal inequalities affecting the 
inclination of the orbits of Jupiter and Saturn have the same periods for 
each i)Ianet, and these periods are, for the two principal inequalities, 
51,280 years, and 5G,303 years. In like manner the principal inequali- 
ties in the eccentricities of Jupiter and Saturn depend on their mutual 
attraction, and have a period of G9,141 years. The secular inequalities 
of those orbits which have no vanishing elements are conq)osed of terms, 
of very different orders of magnitude; and it frequently happens that 
two or three of these terms are greater than the sum of all the remaining 
ones. In such cases the variation of the corresponding element very 
approximately conforms to a much simpler law, and the maxima and 
minima repeat themselves according to definite and well-defined 
cycles. But with regard to the orbits of Venus, the Earth, and Mars, 
the rigorous expressions of the eccentricities and inclinations are com- 
posed of twenty-eight periodic terms, having coeflicientsof consi<lerable 
magnitude; and this circumstance renders the law of their variations 
extremely intricate. 



The method we have adopted for finding the coefficients of the cor. 
rections of the constants, depending on finite variations of the different 
])lanetary masses, consists in sui)posing that each planetary mass re- 
ceives in succession a finite increment, and then finding the values of 
all the coustauts corresponding to this increased mass in the same man- 
ner as for the assumed masses. By this means we have a set of values 
corresponding to the assumed masses, and another set corresponding to 



272 



RECENT RESEARCHES OX THE 



a fiDitc iiicreraeut to eacli of the planetary masses. Then, taking the 
diiierence between the two sets of constants, and dividing by the incre- 
ment which produced it, we get the coefficient of the variation of the 
constants for any other finite increment of mass to the same planet ; but, 
on account of the importance of the earth's mass, and the probable in- 
accuracy of its assumed value, we have prepared separate solutions cor- 
responding to the several increments of gV? -ioi ''^^^ yo ^f its assumed 
mass ; and a comparison of the values which the different solutions give 
for the superior limit of the eccentricity of, the earth's orbit has sug- 
gested the inquiry whether there may not be some unknown physical 
relation between the masses and mean distances of the different planets. 
The same peculiarity in the elements of the orbit of Venus is also found 
to depend upon particular values of the mass of that planet. But with- 
out entering into details in regard to the peculiarity referred to, we 
here give the several values of the masses of these two planets which 
we have employed in our computations, and the corresponding values 
of the superior limit of the eccentricity of their orbits : 



ilass. 


For Venus, maximum e'. 


]Uass. 


For the earth, maxi- 
mum c". 


m' 

on'o 

«''o(l-fJo) 


0. 070G33 
0. 07487-2 
0. 07C075 
0. 075029 
0. 072098 


m" 
m"o 

on"o (l+2"(j) 
m"o(l+2%) 


0. 0C7735 
0. 0C9389 
0. 0C9C49 
0. 065089 



These numbers show that if the mass of Venus were to be increased, 
the superior limit of the eccentricity of her orbit would also increase 
until it had attained a maxunum value, after which a further increase 
of her mass Avould diminish that limit ; and the same remark is also 
applicable to the eccentricity of the earth's orbit. 

The above numbers indicate that the superior limit of the eccen- 
tricity of the orbit of Venus is a maximum if the mass of that planet 
is equal to w'o(l+-^'^'-), or, if J»'=3^Viro of the sun's mass; and the 
superior limit of the eccentricity of the earth's orbit is a maximum if 
the earth's mass is equal to m"o{l+^W), or, if m"=^^^j^^ of the sun's 
mass. But this value of the earth's mass corresponds to a solar paral- 
lax of 8".730, a value closely approximating to the recent determina- 
tions of that element. 

If, then, the mass of Venus is equal to a^^^gd) ^^^ ^^^ ^^^^ ^^ ^^® 
earth is equal to -.,-,^V(hjj i^ follows that the orbits of these two planets 
will ultimately become more eccentric from the mutual attraction of the 
other planets than they would for any other values of their respective 
masses; and we may now inquire whether such coincidence between 



SECULAR VARIATIONS OF THE PLANETARY ORBITS. 273 

the superior limits of tlie ecceutricities and the masses of these two 
planets has any physical siguifiGauce, or is merely accidental. 

Since the meau motions and mean distances of the planets are invari- 
able, aud independent of the eccentricities of the orbits, it would seem 
that there could be no connection between these elements by means of 
which the stability of the system might be secured or impaired ; but a 
more careful examination shows that, although the mean motions or 
times of revolution of the planets are invariable, their actual velocities, 
or the variation of their mean velocities, depends wholly on the eccen- 
tricities ; aud were any of the planetary orbits to become extremely 
elliptical, the velocity of the planet would be subject to great variations 
of velocity, moving with very great rapidity when in perihelion, and 
with extreme slowness when in the neighborhood of its aphelion ; and 
it is evident that when the planet was in this latter position a small for- 
eign force acting upon it might so change its velocity as to completely 
change the elements of its orbit, by causing it to fall upon the sun or 
fly off into remoter space. A system of bodies moving in very eccen- 
trical orbits is therefore one of manifest instability ; and if it can also 
be shown that a system of bodies moving in circular orbits is one of 
unstable equilibrium, it would seem that, between the two supposed 
conditions a system might exist which should possess a greater degree 
of stability than either. Tlie idea is thus suggested of the existence of 
a system of bodies in which the masses of the different bodies are so 
adjusted to their mean distances as to insure to the system a greater 
degree of permanence than would be possible by any other distribution 
of masses. The mathematical expression of a criterion for such distri- 
bution of masses has not yet been fully developed ; and the preceding 
illustrations have been introduced here, more for the purpose of calling 
the attention of mathenmticians and astronomers to this interesting 
problem than for any certain light we have yet been able to obtain in 
regard to its solution. 
18 s 71 



ox S«>ME METHODS OF INTEUPOLATIOX APPLICABLE TO THE GliADUATIOX 
OF lUREUl'lAH SERIES, Sll'H AS TABLES OF MORTALITY, *fcc., &C. 



By Erasti's L. De Fokkst, 51. A., 
Of Watertowu, Connecticut. 



[The portions of the follo\viug methods of interpolation comprising the formulas 2, 
8, A, B, C, D, E, F, 11, 1-3, 13, 17, 19, 20, 21, 24, 25, 2<5, 27, 28, 30, 43, 44, 45, 46, 48, 49, and 
50, were presentev^ to the Smithsonian Institution for i^uhlication in the year 18GS. The 
method of constructing tables of mortality from two successive census enumerations 
■was first given in January, 1869, and the formulas 40, 41, 42, 53, 54, 55, 56, and 59, 
in January, 1870. — J. II.] 

We have no analytical formula wliicli expresses tlie law of mortality 
Avith precision, and at the same time with such simplicity as to be prac- 
tically useful. For all the purposes of life insurance and life annuities, 
it is expressed by numerical series. The law is known to vary in dif- 
ferent localities, and even iu the same locality at different epochs. That 
which ])revails in any community, at a given period, can be ascertained 
by enumerating the persons living at the various ages, and the deaths 
which annually occur among them. Eeduced to one of its usual forms, 
it is expressed in a statistical table, showing-, out of a certain number of 
persons born, how many survive to complete each successive year of 
their age. These numbers of the living form a diminishing series of 
about one hundred terms, whose first dilferences are the numbers dying 
during each year of age. We have reason to believe that a true law of 
mortality is a continuous function of the age, free from sudden irregu- 
larities, so that in a perfect table the second, third, &c., orders of dilfer- 
ences of the series ought to go on continually diminishing, and each 
order by itself ought to show a (pertain degree of regularity ; in other 
words, the table should be well graduated. But, in point of fact, 
all purely statistical tables are irregular, especially when the popula- 
tion observed has been small, and every table of mortality now iu use 
has been graduated artificially. It was not strange that the Carlisle 
t^ble, derived from records of population and deaths in a single town, 
should show many irregularities. They have been adjusted to some 
extent, but very imperfectly. The Combined Experience table, also, 
which was compiled from the records of seventeen British life insurance 
oflices, owes its better graduation to art rather than to nature. Farrs 
English life-table, iSTo. .'>, lor males, derived from the census returns of 
1811 and 1851, and from the registry of deaths in England and Wales 



276 METHODS OF INTERPOLATION. 

for the seventeen years from 1838 to 1854, thongh perhaps the best ex- 
pression we have for the hiw of general mortality, is by no means well 
graduated. In this case the population observed was so large that if 
the tables had been formed directly from the enumeration of persons 
living and persons dying in each single year of age, and if these obser- 
vations conld have been relied upon as accurate, any irregularities then 
existing in the series might possibly have been thought to result from 
something peculiar in the law of life at certain ages. But it was neces- 
sary to combine the single years of age into groups, owing to the impos- 
sibility of ascertaining ages with i)recision. All persons were rerjuired 
to give their exact ages at last birthday, but the reports state that 
round numbers, such as 50, 60, &c., were disproportionately numerous, 
showing that the ages were not always correctly given. In forming the 
life-table No. 3 the years of age were grouped together into decennial 
periods chiefly, and the whole term of life was then divided into five 
unequal parts, so as to form a chain of sub-series, each of the fourth 
order, and not continuous at their points of junction. We must con- 
clude, then, that the great irregularities now found at certain points in 
the series result from imperfect distribution, and not from any irregu- 
larity in the true law of mortality. 

A good system of distribution or adjustment, though not positively 
essential in practice, is nevertheless desirable, first, because a judiciously 
adjusted table probably comes nearer to the truth than an unadjusted 
or ill-adjusted one; that is, nearer to what the statistics would show if 
the population observed could be made in<lefinitely large, and if the 
numbers for each year of age could be independently determined. 
Secondly, if the primary table is well graduated, all the various series 
of numbers derived from it, forming the usual " commutation tables" 
and tables of premiums and valuations of assurances and annuities, 
will be well graduated also, and this will sometimes facilitate the 
computation of such tables, because a part of the tabular numbers 
can be accurately found by ordin^,ry interpolation, and errors of com- 
putation can be discovered by the method of differences. Many writers 
on the law of mortality have treated of the subject of adjustnunit, as 
may be seen in the pages of the London Journal of the Institute of 
Actuaries and Assurance Magazine, and elsewhere. The rule ot least 
squares was used to adjust the American table given in the report of 
tbe United States census of 1800. (See the Appendix on Average Ilate 
of Mortality, pages 518 and 521.) The series there given, however, is 
not very thoroughly graduated, as can easily be shown by taking its 
successive orders of difierences. In England, the "law of Gompertz" 
has been chiefly taken as a basis. But it is not necessary to adopt any 
exclusive theory respecting the precise nature of that function which 
expresses the law of mortality. The following system of distribution 
and graduation is based upon j)rinciples which apply to any continuous 
series of numbers, and is analogous to the ort^inary methods of inter- 



METHODS OF INTERPOLATION. 277 

polatiou. It is not witliout interest when regarded from a purely 
matliematical point of view. The general question as to liow an 
irregular series can be made regular is answered by means of the 
obvious principle that, altliougli single terms in a series may deviate 
considerably from the normal standard, yet the arithmetical means of 
successive groups of terms will be less iiuctuating, because the errors 
of the single terms which compose each group tend to compensate each 
other, and also because the means of two groups which are partly com- 
posed of the same terms must necessarily approximate toward each 
other as the number of terms common to both is increased. In ordinary 
interpolation, we proceed from some known single terms in a series to 
find the values of other terms ; in the present case, however, all single 
terms are unreliable, and the problem is to determine the single terms in 
a series when only the arithmetical means of some groups of terms are 
given. To find expressions for the sum, and consequently the mean, of 
the terms in any group, we shall make use of the known principle that, in 
a continuous series whose law is given or assumed, the sum of a limited 
number of terms can be regarded as a definite integral, which is the 
aggregate of a succession of similar integrals corresponding to the terms 
considered.* 

FIRST METHOD OF ADJUSTMENT. 

We know that when equidistant ordinates are drawn to the jiarabola — 

they form a series of the second order ; that is, their second differences 
are constant. Let c represent the distance from one ordinate to another j 
the area of the curve included between two such ordinates will be — 

^^ dx = c[K + Bo;' + C(if'2 + tV <^)\ 

■vrhere x' is the abscissa corresponding to the middle ordinate of the 
area. Since this area is a function of the second degree in x'^ it follows 
that when values in arithmetical progression, such as 1, 2, 3, &c., are 
assigued to x'^ the resulting areas will form a series of the second order. 
This being premised, let us assume any three areas, Sj, S2, S3, so situ- 
ated that the middle ordinates of Si and S3 shall fall respectively to the 
left and right of the middle ordinate of S2, which is taken as the axis of 
Y. Let 7ii, 7i2, ns, be the portions of the axis of X which form the bases 
of these areas, and let «i and (h be the portions of the same axis inter- 
cepted between the axis of Y and the middle ordinates of Si and S3 
respectively. Then we have — 

Si=: r"''''^^"V<7^=Mi[A-Brti-fC(ai^-f,V'i2)] 

J -ai — \ni 

82= r^%jdx=n,{K-^i^iH') 

J —irii 

* See a note by M. Prouhet, appended to Vol. II of Sturm's Coins d' Analyse de VlScole 
Folytechiique. 



/: 



278 METHODS OF INTERPOLATION". 



83 = 



Let S be a fourth area whose base is w, and let x' be the abscissa cor- 
responding' to its middki ordinate 5 then — 






(1) 



Eliminating A, B, C, from the above four equations employing P, Q, B, 
as auxiliary letters, ami dropping the accent from x'^ we have — 

Q = a,[^2^-j-V(;i='-«2')]+;r[r/,2+.j-V(»i2_„,2)-] 
E=«3frti'+TV(ni'-?^2^i]+Oif«3'+TV(".'-"2-)] ^ (2) 

-"[(-'^'^)©HD(|)<i)(|)] 

This enables us to find the magnitude S of an area whose position only 
is given, when the three other areas Sj, S2, S3, are given both in magni- 
tude and position. 

Now let each of the four areas be divided by equidistant ordinates 
into as many subdivisions as there are units in the bases tii^ iu^ ii^ and 
n respectively, these bases being supposed to represent whole numbers, 
and let cii, «3, and x be each a whole number or a whole number and a 
half, according as ^h+^z, ^24-^3, and «2+w are respectively even or odd; 
then all the subdivisions of the areas will be so situated that the ab- 
scissas corresponding to their middle ordinates will be terms in an 
arithmetical progression, and, consequently, the subdivisions themselves 
Avill be terms in a series of the second order. We may regard these 
subdivisions as representing not areas merely, but magnitudes of any 
kind, and the areas Si, S2, S3, and S being the sums of groups of sub- 
divisions, we see that formula (2) enables us to find the sum S of any 
group of consecutive terms in a series of the second order when the 
sums Si, S2, S3, of tlie terms in any other three groups in the s<M'ies are 
given. From the sums of the terms in each group their aritliinetical 
means are known, and vice versa, for n^, n-y, "3, and n are given, and these 
are the numbers of terms which the several groups contain. The 
groups may be entirely distinct, or they may overlap each other so that 
some terms belong to two or more of them at once. The intervals be- 
tween the middle point of the group S2, and the middle points of the 
groups Si, S3, and S are «], ^3, awd x respectively ; the interval between 
the middle points of any two consecutive terms being unity. We must 
regard «i and ((3 as always positive, while x may be either positive or 
negative. When n is made equal to unity, the formula gives the value 
of a single term S by means of the suras Si, S2, S3, of the three given 
groups of terms. The results are exact when the series taken is of the 
second order, but if it follows some other law, or is irregular, approxi- 
nmte or adjusted values for S will be obtained,«and if the same groups 



METHODS OF INTERPOLATION. 279 

are constautly used as data, tlie single terms interpolated from tliein 
will themselves form a series of tlie second order. Assuming auytliree 
groups of terms in any given series, regular or irregular, we can con- 
struct a new series of the second order, such that the arithmetical means 
^f the terms in the three corresponding groups in it shall be severally 
equal to those in the given series. 

In the special case in which the three groups are consecutive, and con- 
tain Hi terms each, taking formula (1), which expresses the sum S of any 
n terms in a group, the abscissa of the middle point of the group being 
a', we may assign to x' its three values — Hi, 0, and -j-Wi in succession, 
obtaining the three equations — 

S2-=»i(A-f-LC'«i-) 

S,=»i(A+C«i+ifC»,2) 

These suffice to determine the three constants A, B, C ; and dropping 
the accent from x' in (1), we have — 

A=^[2CS,-(S,+S,)] 

S = n (A + ^i^C )f-+B x-i- C a-) 

This can be used in place of the more general formula (2), in all cases 
where the three groups are consecutive and of equal extent. 

We have here a means of ajiproximating to the population living 
within each single year of age when the statistics are given by decades 
or other intervals of age, as is Often the case in census re])orts. If we 
take ??i=10, and let u represent what S becomes when n=l, then form- 
ula (A) will reduce to — 
« = sc?oo[86GS3-33(S, + S3) + 40(S3-Si).r+4(Si-fS3-2S.,),r2] . . (3) 

If, for example. Si, Sg, S3 are the numbers aged 30 and under 40, 40 
and under 50, 50 and under GO, respectively, then giving *• the values 
— ■!, + },+!, &c., in succession, the resulting values of u will be the num- 
bers aged 44 and under 45, 45 and under 4G, 4G and under 47, &c. If 
instead of taking n=l we take n=i^ or «=^, then by assigning the 
proper values to x we may find the poi)ulation living within any desired 
half year or quarter of a year of age. (See Milne on Annuities, Vol. 1, 
Ch. 3.) The same formula (3) enables us to distribute among the single 
years of age the deaths which occur within any three consecutive de- 
cades of age during a given period of time. If the population or deaths 
were ihus distributed within every decade by means of the totals for 



(A) 



280 METHODS OF INTERPOLATION. 

that decade aud tlie two others nearest to it, the result would be a chain 
of sub-series of the second order extending throughout the term of life, 
but not forming a well-graduated series, because in general it would 
not be continuous at the points of junction between the decades. It 
might, however, be made approximately continuous afterward by means 
of the second method of adjustment, which will soon be explained. We 
must observe, too, that at the ages before 20 or after 80 the population 
and deaths vary so rapidly, that, in order to secure a good distribution 
by these methods, the data for those ages ought to bo given by intervals 
of five years, or some other number less than a decade. In the ages of 
infancy they should be given for each single year. 
Eeverting now to the general formula (2), we observe that the quan- 

Q a g Q 

titles - — \ — , — , are the mean values of the ordinate within the 

W' Oii^ M2' 713 

several areas, so that the formula enables us not only to interpolate the 
arithmetical mean of a group of n terms in a series when the means of 
the terms in three other groups are known, but also to interpolate the 
mean value of a function within any interval n when its mean values 
within three other intervals ih, »2, ^3, are known ; so that if we know 
the mean annual rate of mortality for three consecutive decades of age, 
we can find the mean rate for each single year of age by formula (3), 
since Si, S2, S3, are simply ten times the given mean rate for their 
respective decades. 

When any one of the intervals Wj, «2, ih or n is diminished, the mean 
value of the ordinate within such interval will evidently approximate to 
the value of the middle ordinate of the interval, and will become equal 
to it at the limit, when the interval becomes zero. Hence, making w= 0, 

we have — for the ordinate corresponding to the abscissa x, and (2) 

K-^Xi:XrTX^>(iX^) • • • <^> 

When Si, S2, S3, denote the population living within given intervals of 
age, the area 7/ f7,r may be regarded as denoting the number living at 
the'fexactage indicated by a;, and if the population is a stationary one— 
that is, neither increasing nor diminishing, the product n'y will repre- 
sent the number of persons w^ho attain that exact age during the interval 
of time 01' ; so that when the ages are grouped by decades, and we 
have «= 0, formula (A) will give for the number of persons who annually 
attain the age indicated by x, since n' is nuity, 
2/=i3(7(n7[650S2-25(Si+S3)4-30(S3-Si)j? + 3(Si+S3-2S2)J?2] . (5) 

For example, when Si, S3, S3, denote the population aged 30 and under 
40, 40 and under 50, 50 and under GO, respectively, if we assign to x the 
values — 1, 0,+l, &c., in succession, the resulting values of y will be the 
numbers annually attaining the ages 44, 45, 46, &c. It has usually- 
been the i)ractice to consider these numbers as being represented by 



METHODS OF INTERPOLATION. 281 

the population liviDo- between the ages 43i and 44^, 44;} and 45i, 45} 
and 40}, &c., respectively, aiid a comparison of formulas (.3) and (.")) 
sliows that the two sets of numbers would be almost identical, though 
not precisely so. The difference between them is — 

y — « = 2 4 ko (- ^2 — Si — S3) 

a number so small that it will not ordinarily affect the first five signifif- 
cant figures of a result. 

A considerably larger error is involved in the assumption that the 
ratio of the deaths annually occurring within any decade of age to the 
population living within such decade represents the annual rate of mor- 
tality at the exact middle age of the decade. ( Assur. Mag.,Yol. IX, p. 125.) 

Let Si, S2, S3, be the deaths, and Si, S2, S3, the population, for any three 
consecutive decades, then the deaths annually occurring at the exact 
middle age of the middle decade are, by formula (5), making x—0, 

and the population living at the same age is, 

Yf?-''=oio [2G S., — (Si+S3)]^7.c 
so that the annual rate of mortality at that exact age is, 

y 2G«.3 — (.S, + .S;;) 



Y i'G82— (S1 + S3) 



(G) 



The difl'erence between this and the assumed value A is sufficient to 

S3 

alter the fourth significant figure of the quotient, and even the second 
and third at the older ages, as can easily be verified by assigning to Si, 
Si, &c., the numerical values for the various decades given by their log- 
arithms in Table III of the Preface to the English Life Tables. 

As regards the general accuracy of interpolations made b}' formula 
(2), it must be noted that near the middle point of the middle interval 
?«2 the values obtained will be more accurate than they will be at its 
extremities, and the accuracy attainable will diminish as we proceed out 
of the middle interval into either of the lateral ones. This is analogous 
to what we know to be the case with ordinary interpolations by second 
differences. And just as the degree of accuracy is increased by taking 
third differences into account, so here we can increase it by taking four 
intervals instead of three. This will give a curve of the third degree, 
which admits a point of inflexion, and is, therefore, better adapted than 
the common parabola to represent the form of a series whose second 
difference changes its sign. 

For thesakeof simplicity, let us assume that the four areas Si, S2, S3, 
S4, are symmetrically arranged with respect to the axis of Y, so that 
the distances from the middle ordinates of Si and S4 to that axis shall 
be each equal to «], and the corresponding distances for S2 and S3 each 
equal to «2, while the bases of the first and fourth areas are each equal 
to ??), and those of the second and third are each equal to ih- Then taking 
the curve — 



282 METHODS OF INTERPOLATION. 

Ave obtain tbe integral — 

S= r'^l''ydx=n[A+Bx-^C{x'-+j\n^) + Dx{x''+}n^)] . . (7) 

J x — in 

wiiicli expresses the sum S of any n terms taken in a group, tlie abscissa 
of the middle point of the group being x. Substituting for n the four 
Tiilues Wi, ih, W2j ni, in succession, and lor x the four corresponding val- 
ue-s — «i, — rt^, +«25 aii<l -^(ii, we obtain the four ecpiations — 

Si = n, [A — Bffi+C {ar^j\,n,~y^ I>«i {a.^+W)] 

52 = n2 [A — B(<2+C («/ + yL«2') — ^«2 {a-i'+^n-r)] 

53 = % [A + Ba2+G (a,24--V»2'') + DosCo^^+im,^')] 
S, = n, [A + Bai+C {a,^+j\n,') + 0% (ai^+im^)] 

These are sufficient to determine the four constants A, B, 0, D, and, 
arranging (7) according to the powers of a;, we have — 

1 r %(12«r+7h^)(S2+S3)-n2(12«2^+»/)(Si+S,) \ 



1 /' ai9ti(4ai^+V)(S3-S2)-ff2^?2(4tf2^+%^)(S4-S]) ^ 
'i»2\ 4:{ai^—a/)-\-n{^—)h^ 

"2(Sl+S4)-lh(S2+S3)\ >(8) 



C^ C /- »,(S,+S4)-ni(S2+S3) \ 
niii2\ 12(ar— «2^)+»i'— "2''^ y 

■p^ 2 /^ q,3«3(S4-S0- ai7?i(S3-S2)\ 

«lrt2«l%\ 4(«.i^ — (<2") + «i'^ — ih'^ J 



S = n[(A+yLCM2) + (B+iD«2)x+C.r2+Da;3] 

This formula enables us to interpolate the sum S of any n terms in a 
group i^recisely as (2) does, but more accurately. It gives exact results 
when the series taken is of an order not higher than the third, and 
approximate or adjusted ones in other cases. With anj' given series, 
taking four groups of terms symmetrically situated on each side of a 
middle point which become^s the origin of coordinates, we can construct 
a new series of the third order, such that the aritlimetical means of the 
terms in the four corresponding groups in it shall be equal to those in 
the given series. If the four groups are consecutive and contain ni 
terms each, we have — 

ai=^ni, «2=i»i 

and the constants reduce to — 

A=^^^[7(S2+S,)-(Si+S4)] 



B=j^,[15(S3-S2)-(S4-S,)] 

C=J^,[(Sl+S4)-(S2+S3)] 



(B) 



METHODS OF INTERPOLATION. 28o 

T\"lien the siiius Si, S2, S3, S4, denote popnlatioii living- or deaths occur- 
riiiii: within four consecutive decades of age, and n denotes the numbers 
for IX single year of age, then we have — 

and consequently — 



+^rn^,[-^^'(«^-S.)-100(S,-S0], 



X- 



+ innn[(^i + »^)-(»^ + ^:>)] 



■(0) 



40(K> 



.[(S,-S0-3(S3-S,)] 



' OOOOO' 

"When the values of A, B, C, D, are substituted in the equation of the 
curve, the number of persons who annually attain the age indicated by 
w is expressed thus : 



2/=i^[7(SH-S.)-(S: + S,)]+j|^J15(S3-S,)-(S,-S0J^ 



(10) 



These last two formulas may be used instead of (3) and (5) when 
greater accuracy is desired. It will be easy to obtain similar ones for 
cases in which the ages of a population are taken by intervals of five, 
twenty, or any other number of years. 

Let us now assume five or more groups, with a curve of the gci^eral 
form — 

7/=A4-B ,r+C ,x-+J} ,r+E .v'+F .c^+G *«+H .r^+&c. 

and, to make the case as simple as possible, let the groups be consecu- 
tive and composed of iii terms each. The sum of any n terms in a 
group will be — 

ydx 

which, arranged according to the powers of ir, is — 

S = 4 A+ J,C li'-Vi^ «^+7-{^G ^^H (B + iD n^+^\-F n^+ JjH if')x \ 

+ (C+AE7t2+3i.G7i^).t^^+(B + F^^'+Tyi^^V+(E+f<^^«V > (12) 
+ (F+|II «2).c5+G .«G+n *'^+&c.] ) 

If we assume only five groups, the series will be of the fourth order, the 
constants F, G, &c., will be zero, and by substituting for x in fornuda 
(11) the five values — 2«i,— «i, 0, -\-ni^ and +2ui, in succession, and put- 
ting 111 for «, we shall ol)tain five equations by which to determine the 
five constants as follows: 



284 



METHODS 01* INTERPOLATION. 



A=j^^J2134 S3+9(Si+S5)-llG(S2+S4)] ^ 
E=j^i34(S,-S,)-5(S5-S,)] 

D=^J(S5-Si)-2(S4-S2)] 



M^) 



"12 Ml'' 

This, in connection witli formula (12), enables ns to express tlie 
sum S of any group of w terms in a series of the fourth order by means 
of the sums Si, Ss, S3, S4, S5, of the terms in any five consecutive groups 
of ?fi terms each. In case the given series is of a higher order than the 
fourth, or irregular, we can find adjusted values for each term, and for 
any given set of groups assumed these values will form a series of the 
fourth order. If we take Wi=10, formulas similar to (3) and (5) may be 
obtained, by which to interpolate numbers for each single year when 
statistics of population and mortality are given by decades of age. 

Particular relations exist between the numerical coeflScients of Si, S2, &c., 
in the values of the constants A, B, &c., in this and similar formulas. In 
the expression for A, the factor +2131 belongs to a single quantity S3, while 
the factors +9 and -^IIG belong each to two quantities. So we have— 

2131 + 2x9 - 2x110 = 1920 
and 1920 is the numerical part of the denominator of the fraction out- 
side the bracket. In the expression for B a different relation appears. 
From the middle of the group S2 to that of S4 is a distance of two inter- 
vals, while from Si to S5 there are four intervals. We have accordingly— 

2x31 - 4x5 = 48 
and 48 is the numerical part of the denominator of the fraction without 
the bracket. Similar relations are found in the expressions for 0, D, 
and E, except that the totals are equal to zero instead of to the denomi- 
nator of the fraction. 

Again, assuming six consecutive groups of equal extent, with a curve 
of the fifth degree, whose origin of coordinates is at the point of division 
between the third and fourth groups, and pursuing the same method as 
before, we find that the six constants are — 

A=^j^J37(S3+S4)+(Si+Sg)-8(S2+S5)] ^ 

B=.^^2[245(S4-S3)+2(S6-Si)-25(S5-S2)] 



"180 7tr 

C=j^i7(S2+S5)-6(S3+S4)-(Si+Sc)] 

D=3g^,[ll(S,-S2)-28(S4-S3)-(SG-Si)] 
E=^,[2(S3+S4)+(Si+So)-3(S2+S5)] 
_L_^.[10(S4-S3)+(S6--Si)-5(85-S2)] 



F= 



(D) 



J 



METHODS OF INTERPOLATION. 285 

In like manner, assuming seven groups, with a curve of the sixth degree, 
we liud the seven constants — 

^= m520n ^^^^^^ S4+954(S,+S6)-7G31(S3+Ss)-75(Si+S;)]^ 



i«i' 
|?i? 



B=j^^^,[9455(S5-S3) + 259(S,-S0-223G(So-S.)] 



C=3^;j^3[3435(S3+S5)+37(Si+S,)-6020Si-4G2(S,+ Se)] 
^=r7s^Io2{S,-B,)-S3{S,-&,)-7{S,-S,)] >(E) 

<j / 1> III 

r=24(J^/5(S5-S3)+(S,-Si)-4(S«-S2)] 

G=,=^,[15(S3+S5) + (Si+S,)-20S4-G(S2+S,)] 

So also with eight groups, and a curve of the seventh degree, the eight 
constants are — 

A=3^^^^J11193(S4+S5)+609(S3+S,)-2919(S3+So)-63(Si+S,)] 
B=5^^|^,[7175(S5-S4) + 119(S, — S2)-889(Sg-S3)-9(S3-S:)] 
C=53^3[273(S3+So) + 7(Si+S3)-215(S,+S5)-G5(S,+S,)] 

r-jg^75(S5-S,) + ll(S,-S,)-41(S6-S3)-(Ss-Si)] 
G=Xn^7[0(S3+SG) + (Si+Ss)-5(S4+S5)-5(S2 + S,)] 

In the same way we miglit determine the nine constants for a curve of 
the eighth degree, and so on ; for the operations required, thougli some- 
what tedious, are always possible.* We have found, then, a very simple 
and general method by which, when any ?w+l consecutive groups of 
equal extent are assumed in a given series, a new series of the mth 

* See formula (G) iu Ai^peudix I. 



286 METHODS OF INTERPOLATION. 

order can be constraoted, sucli that the aritliinetical means of the terms 
in tlie m + l corresponding gronps in it will be severally equal to those 
in the original series. 

Let us now proceed to apply this method to the graduation of an 
irregular rate of mortality. Column [a) in Table I shows the proba- 
bility of dying within a year, at each age, from 20 to 79, as experi- 
enced by the life insurance companies- doing business in Massachu- 
setts for seven years ending November 1, 18G5, and given in the 
commissioners' report. The terms of the series are 100 times the quo- 
tients arising from dividing the number of deaths in each year of age 
by the number of years of life exj)osed to mortality at that age. For 
example, the number 1.08 opposite the agQ 59 signifies that of the 
insured persons who attained that age about 2 per cent, died within the 
following year. The great irregularity of this series is apparent at a 
glance. The observations on which it is based were not such as to give 
it very high authority as a law of mortality, and it is introduced here 
merely to illustrate the method of graduation. The rate which it 
shows is too low throughout almost all the ages, owing mainly, no doubt, 
to the recent selection of most of the lives observed. The life insurance 
companies of America are of recent and very rapid growth, and in tlie 
jncsent case the average duration of the policies observed probably did 
not much exceed, if it equaled, three years. It is well known that in 
a class of persons aged fifty years, for instance, who have been recently 
pronounced healthy by a medical examiner, the rate of mortality may 
be expected to be lower than among another class of similar age, 
whose examination was made ten, twenty, or thirty years earlier ; for 
some of the latter will have contracted disease in the mean time, while 
others, probably' among the healthiest lives, will have surrendered their 
I)olicies or allowed them to lapse, thus deteriorating the average vitality 
of the insured. The present rate, therefore, cannot be regarded as a 
permanently reliable one. At the ages 20, 21, and 22, however, the rate 
is too high. This may be merely accidental, owing to the fact that only 
a small number of lives were observed at those ages. 

In the first place, let us construct a representative series or the fourth 
order. The sixty terms of series (a) form five groups of twelve terms 
each ; their sums are — 

Si = 9.15, S2=9.06, 83 = 13.03, 84=28.51, S5=87.8i 

and when we take — 

»ii.-=12, n^l, S=w 

formulas (C) and (12) give — 

2432J081 p_2G7^ ^ C7.19 ^39.79 12.445 

■^~ 10(1 2)'^' ^~ 4(12)3' ^~10(12)3' ^-(^rjf ■^— (IL^- 

and consequently — 



METHODS OF INTERPOLATION. 
Taule I. 



287 



Age. 



20 
21 
22 
2:3 
24 
25 
26 
27 
23 
29 
30 
31 
32 
33 
34 
35 
3(3 
37 
3- 
39 
40 
41 
42 
43 
44 
45 
46 
47 
48 
49 



('0 



if>) 



.92 

. 90 
. 9;> 
.67 
.82 
.70 
.67 
.66 
.67 
.6s 
.74 
.80 
AiS 
.60 
.81 
.74 
.63 
.65 
.82 
.85 
.87 
.78 
.84 
.79 
.94 
. 8.5 
.97 
. 92 
1. 03 
.96 



1.07937 

. 973S6 
.88650 
. 81545 
. 75897 
. 71543 

. (;-:'.2(i 
.<;6i(i5 

.(')4744 
.64119 
.64117 
. 64632 
. 65572 
. 66852 
. 6^397 
.70145 
.72039 

. 740;;8 

.76106 
. 78219 
. 8();!(i3 

! 84741) 
. fiC'J'M 
. 8'j: ',23 
.91762 
. 94359 
.97168 

l.()025(; 

1. 031 i99 



(0 



Aire. 



. 71465 
.74{i!)6 
.76(;i5 
.77713 
.78100 
. 77949 
.77416 
. 766'>5 
. 75723 
. 74779 
. 73887 
.73115 
. 72520 
.72144 
. 72020 
. 72173 
.72617 
. 73361 
. 74408 
. 75756 
. 77402 
. 793; '.9 
. 81.561 
. 84062 
. 86838 
. 89891 
. 93224 
. 96849 
1. 00783 
1.05053 



50 
51 
52 
53 
54 
55 

5(; 

57 
58 
59 
60 
61 
62 
()3, 
64 
65 
66 
67 
68 
69 
70 
71 
72 
73 
74 
'75 
76 
77 
78 
79 



(«) 



.97 
l.Ol 
1.06 
1.31 
1. 80 
1.21 

1. 33 
1.65 
1.70 
1.98 
2.09 
2.08 
1.89 
2.75 

2. .50 

3. 51 

3. 01 

4. 02 

4. 26 

3. 31 
6.80 

5. 00 

6. 84 
6.14 

4. 58 
4. 50 

7. 53 
11.31 
11.69 
15.88 



ii^) 



1. 07582 
1. 12001 
1. 17063 
1. 22884 
1. 29589 
1.37314 
1. 46206 
1. .56419 
1. 68121 
1. 81487 

1. 96703 
2. 13966 

2. 33480 

2. 55463 
2. 80139 
3. 07746 

3. 38.528 
3. 72742 
4. 106.55 
4. 52541 
4. 98688 

5. 49390 

6. 04955 

6. 65697 

7. 31943 

8. 04030 
8. 82302 
9.67116 

10. 58839 
11.57845 



(c) 



1.09695 
1. 14753 
1.20:;02 
1. 26399 
1.33140 
1.40629 
1.48989 
1. 58362 



1.68910 
1. 80815 
1.94283 
2. 09546 
2. 26857 
2. 46499 
2. 68782 
2. 94044 
3. 22655 
3. 55016 
3. 91561 
4. 32758 
4.79112 
5.31163 
5. 89490 
G. 54713 
7. 27489 
8. 08521 
8. 98552 
9. 98373 
11.08818 
12. 30769 



« = 1.055791+.03S79144.r+.0024322S0.r2_|_ Q0Q1599072.13 
-L .000004107808 .^^ 

This is tlie equation of tbe new series. Since the origin of coordinates 
is at the middle point of the middle group, if we assign to x the values 
—ii-^h+h ^^'1 ^^^ resulting values of u will be the terms belonging 
to the ages 49, 50, 51, &c. When any five consecutive terms have been 
computed in this way, and their four orders of ditt'erences arp. taken, 
the rest of the series is readily constructed therefrom. The complete 
series is given in column (b). It will be found that the sums of the terms 
in the twelve-year groups 20-31, 32-43, &c., are identical with those iu 
series («), and conseijuently the arithmetical means of the terms in these 
groups are the same in the two series. 

Is^ext, let the required series be one of the fifth order. Taking six 
groups of ten terms each, their suuis are : 



Si: 
S^: 



:7.G1 
:7.32 



S,= 8.95 S:,= 29.42 

84=14.02 Sg=80.27 

and using formula (D) we obtain the equation of the series — 

u = 1.0732474 + .04040701 .r+ .001909958 .^2+ .00007920042 x^ 
+00000491GGG7a'^+.0000001071GG7ic^ 



288 METHODS OF INTERPOLATION. 

The origin of coordinates is the same as in the previous case, being at 
the point of division between the third and fourth groups. When any 
six consecutive terms have been computed and their five orders of dif- 
ferences are taken, the rest of the series is easily constructed. It is 
given in column (c). The sums of the terms for the decades 20-29, SO- 
SO, &c., are the same as in the original series. 

It may seem strange that the two series (6) and (c) should differ so 
much as they do, especially at the earlier ages. There are two reasons 
for it. In the first place, they are derived, from two different sets of 
groups J and as the original series is extremely irregular, the sums Si, 
S2, &c., must vary somewhat from, their normal value, and vary differ- 
ently in the two series, thus affecting the values of all the single terms. 
This source of error, however, can be very much diminished, if not 
entirely removed, by making a preliminary adjustment by the second 
method, as will be shown hei-eafter. In the second place, there is an 
essential difference in the nature of the two series (b) and (c). In {b) 
the general term n is expressed l)y a polynomial of the fourth degree 
in 00. When the two values -\-co and -co are assigned to x, the result- 
ing value of u will have the same sign in both cases, because the 
highest i^ower of x is an even one. But in the equation of series (c) the 
highest power of x is odd, so that the values x=i=-\-co and x— — co will 
give contrary signs to u. In general, when a series of an even order, 
such as (h), is extended indefinitely in both directions, its terms will go 
on increasing algebraically at both extremities, or diminishing at both 5 
but a series of an odd order like (c) will increase at one extremity and 
diminish at the other. It is evident that the original series (a) tends to 
increase at both ends, as also does (/>), while (c) diminishes at the earliest 
ages and increases at the latest ones. This has a considerable effect on 
the form of the series. In (h) there is a minimum of .Gill? at the age 
30, and no maximum at all, while (c) has its minimum of .72020 at the 
age 34, and a maximum at 24. It appears that {h) represents (^0 more 
faithfully than (c) does, and in like manner we may presume that in this 
case a series of the sixth order would be better than one of the seventh 
order, and, in general, that if a given series tends to increase at both 
ends, as any rate of mortality of this nature does, or to diminish at 
both ends, its representative series ought to be of an even order, while 
if it tends to increase at one end and diminish at the other, the new 
series should be made of an odd order. But there will be some excep- 
tions to this rule, and of course, other things being equal, the greater ^ 
the number of groups taken, and the higher the order of the new series, 
the more faithfully will the original one be rei)resented by it. 

SECOND SrEXnOD OF ADJUST3EENT. 

If in formula (2) we make iii an odd number, and assume — 



METHODS OF INTERPOLATION. 289 

aud let u' represent what S becomes when we take — 

n = l, a;=0 

then n' will be the middle term of the middle group Sj, and the lateral 
groups Si and S3 will be similarly situated on each side of the middle 
group and its middle term. We have then — 

This formula enables us to adjust the value of any term in an irregular 
series, by taking it as the middle term with an arbitrary number of ad- 
jiU'cut terms on each side of it, all together forming the middle group in 
which the sum of the terms is S3 and their number is »2, Jmd taking two 
other arbitrary groups, Si and S3, containing Mi terms each, and situated 
one on each side of the middle term and equidistant from it. The dis- 
tance from the middle point of the middle group to that of either lateral 
group is ^1. The simplest case which can arise is where we take five 
consecutive terms, ?<i, ii^, w-, W4, M5, and assume the three middle ones as 
the middle group and the first oue and last one as the two lateral groups ; 
then — 

112=0 J n\=l, rti=2 

and formula (13) gives, as the adjusted value of the middle term «3, 

= J^[4(«2+»3+»4)-(Wl+''5)]) 

When seven terms are taken, live in the middle groui> and t\vo in each 
lateral one, so that the second and sixth terms belong to two groups 
each, we have — 

n,=o, «i=2, «i=f 

and the formula is — 



w'4=J^[13So-5(Si+S3)] 



[(15 
•?'e)-5(»i4-«7)] ) 



The accuracy of formulas (14) and (15) can easily be tested by trial with 
any series of the second order, the adjusted value of the middle term 
being in this case the same as its original value. A simple relation ex- 
ists be ween the numerical coefiQcients of Wi, W2, &g. For example, in 
formula (15) the coeflicient -1-13 belongs to three terniis, -f 8 to tw^o, 
and — 5 to two, and we have — 

3x13 + 2x8 - 2x5 = 45 

and 45 is the denominator of the fraction outside the bracket. The 
numerical coefficients within the bracket may therefore be regarded as 
the wcifihtfi of the terms to which they belong, so that the weight of 
each of the terms u^, Ui, and u^ is 13, that of ^12 and Vq is 8, and that of 
Wi ami 11-: is — 5. 

By varviug the positions of the groups in formula (13), and the num- 
19 s 71 



290 METHODS OF INTERPOLATION. 

ber of terms in eacli, we might find an nnlimited number of adjustment 
formulas, but (14) and (15) will serve as specimens. Similar results can 
also be arrived at by another method, which is very simple. We know 
that in a series of tlie third or any lower order the fourth differences 
are zero ; that is, any five consecutive terms are connected by the 
relation — 

1^5 — 4 »4 + J<3 — 4l(.>+ Hi = 

and, consequently, we have — 

^':i = lV[^("2+«3+W4)-(?'l + «5)] • • . (10) 

This is identical with formula (14), which is thus shown to hold good and 
to give exact results when applied to a series of the third order as well 
as the second. It is therefore equally well adapted for graduating any 
series, whether it has a point of intlexion or not. The same is true of 
(15) and all other formulas derived from (13). 

When applied to an irregular series, such formulas can be modified so 
as to give a<ljusted values which will approximate to the original ones 
more or less closely, as may be desired. Take, for instance, fornnda (1(>). 
If we add Jcu^ to both members of the equation next preceding, it will 
stand — 

(10+A-)?ri=(4+A-)»3+4(?;2+»4)-("i+"5) 

and hence we have — 

This formula differs from (IG) in no respect except that the coefficient of 
V:i within the bracket, and the denominator of the fraction without the 
bracket, have both been increased by the same quantity I: Since Jc may 
have any value whatever, we see that the weight of the middle term Uj 
can be in(n'eased or diminished to any desired extent, the denominator 
of the fraction without the bracket being increased or diminished by 
the same amount. Thus if we desire that the weight of tij shall be 9 
instead of 4, the formula will stand — 

W3=J^[9«3 + 4(W2 + W4) — (Wl + «5)1 . . . (17) 

In this way the value of each term in an adjusted series can be made to 
<lepend on, and approximate to, that of the corresponding term in the 
original series to any extent tluit may be required, and, of course, the 
closer this ap[)roximatiou, the more nearly will the form of the new 
series resemble that of the original one. 

When more than iive terms are to be included by an adjustment for- 
mula, the relative weights of the terms can be varied by combining two 
or more formulas together. For instance, (15) gives, if we drop the 
accent from w'4, 

45»4 = 13(M3+"4+«5) + ^'=(«2 + «g) — 5(?/l+«7) 



METHODS OF INTERPOLATION. • 291 

and (16) may be written — 

10 Z-«4 = />-[4( Ih-j-'U, + U,) — («2+ ?^6)] 

Adding these two equations, we obtain — 

Since J: may have any vahie, let us determine it so that the excess of 
the weight of u^ J^ud n^ over that of «2 i^ud Hg shall be equal to the ex- 
cess of the latter weight over that of Ui and j/^. This gives — 

l-j_|_4A:_(S_A-) = S — 7>--f5 

and, consequently, A- ==3. The formula then becomes — 

iu=sh\^H>h+i'4+>(,)+Hih+K6)—'Xu,+i,,)] . . . (IS) 

and, if the weight of the middle term is increased by 7, we Imve 
tiiially— 

"4 = 4t[1'^"4 + 11(»3+''5) + 4(''2+"c) — 3(«l+?M] . . . (10) 

Here the weights increase in arithmetical progression, from the extreme 
terms to the middle one. 

To obtain a similar formula including nine terms, we may proceed as 
follows. In a series of the third or any lower order the fourth differ- 
ences are zero, and any five consecutive terms are connected by the 
relation — 

In a series of the fifth or any lower order the sixth differences are zero, 
and for any seven consecutive terms we have the relation — 
i<7 — Uq -f 15 U5 — L'O W4 + 15 »3 — «2 + «i = 

In a series of the seventh or any lower order the eighth differences are 
zero, and any nine consecutive terms are connected by the relation — 

W9 — S ?/8+2S ?/-— 50 »G + 70 «5 — 5G Ui+2S i^—S «.+ «i = 
Hence, considering any nine consecutive terms in a series of the third 
or any lower order, we hdve — 

35A-t<5 = 15/.-(?^4 + «5 + «G) — 0/.-(?f3 + ^'7) + /''("2 + ^M 

10 /c'm5 = 4 /.•'( 7^4 + «:,+ ;/,;) — /'•' (":i+ "7) 
Adding these three equations together, we obtain — 

(lL>0+35A--flO//)»5 = (5G + 15A:+4/y)(W4 + «5+"G) — (2S+r,A-+A-')(W3+?M 

+ (8 + A-)(M2+W8) — (Ml + «9) 

which expresses a general relation between an}- nine consecutive terms 
in a series of the third or any lower order. The numbers A* and Jc' being 
entirely arbitrary, we may make the coefficients in the second member 
of the equation form an arithmetical progression by takiug — 

(8+A-)-f2(2S+GA-+A') + (50+15A-+4A-')=0 
_ 1 _ 2(8 -f A-) — (28 + G A-+ A') = 



292 . METHODS OF INTERPOLATION. 

These two conditions give the two values — 

so that the equation reduces to — 

and adding f iir, to both members, we obtain — 

Tlie same result can also be reached by deriving from formula (Ki) 
any three special adjustment formulas comprising five, seven, and nine 
consecutive terms respectively, and then combining them together in 
the manner above indicated. There is evidently no limit to the number 
of terms which might be included in formulas found by these methods. 
With eleven terms, we have the following : 

in Avhich the weights are in arithmetical progression.* 

If we consider any seven consecutive terms in a series of the fifth 
order, placing the sixth difference alone equal to zero, the equation thus 
formed will give — 

u^ = ^^^[^r^{u:.+ }li+v,) — G{l(2+lk) + {Ui + n,)] . . (22) 
This might be used as an adjustment formula, ])ossibly with good effect 
in continuing the graduation of a series already ap[)roximately adjusted. 
It will give exact results when applied to a series of the fifth or any 
loAver order, and the weight of the middle term »4 can be increased or 
diminished if desired. So, too, when the eighth difference is placed equal 
to zero, we obtain the formula — 

W5 = ^i^[3G(?/4+«5 + «6) — -S(»3+«7) + S("2 + «8) — («l + «9)] • • (23) 

■which will give exact results if applied to a series of the sev(mth or any 
lower order. 

The second method of adjustment can be api)lied to the logarithms of 
a series of numbers instead of to the numbers directly. If, for instance, 
the logarithms form a series of the third or any lower order, then for 
any live consecutive terms formula (IG) gives — 

log «3=yV[^(log %+log 1*3 + log Ui) — (log »i+log «5)] 

= iW^S (»2W3«4)' — log («1«5)] 

and consequently — 

This relation will evidently hold good for any five consecutive terms 
in a geometrical progression, because their logarithms are in arithmetical 
progression 5 that is, they form a series of the lirst order. We can 
easily see how any similar adjustment formula can be transformed at 

* For improved formulaa of tbia nature, see'Appendices I aud U. 



METHODS OF INTERPOLATION. 203 

•onee in this way. The weights of the several terms become their expo- 
nents, the terms with positive weights become lactors in the numerator 
of a fraction, wliile those with negative weights are factors in the denom- 
inator, and tlie fraction without the bracket becomes the exponent of 
the whole. Thus (22) is transformed into — 

''''\ u^? ; 

which expresses a relation existing between any seven consecutive terms 
in a series whose logarithms form a series of the fifth or any lower order. 

In all formulas under the second method, the weights of the several 
terms, depending on the position of each one with reference to the mid- 
dle term whose adjusted value is sought, may be called local weights, to 
distinguish them from the intrinsic weight which any term may have 
by virtue of the relative goodness of the observations taken to deter- 
mine its value. We may regard the total weight of a term as com- 
pounded of these two elements, so that if, for instance, the local weights 
of tive consecutive terms are taken as in formula (1(5), and if Ave wish 
also to take the intrinsic weights Cj, c^, c^i &t'', of the terms into account, 
the adjusted value of M3 will then be — 

_ Hc.no+c^ih+CiUi) — {c'lVi + Crjis) ,^,. 

4(e2+C3+C4)-(Ci + C5) '-'[-) 

We know that this fornnda gives exact results when the series Wi, ^2, &c., 
is of the third or any lower order, and the intrinsic weights Ci, C2, &c., 
are all equal, and we may naturally expect that the results will be 
approximately correct when the series 2*1, «o, &c., approximates to regu- 
larity, and the intrinsic weights of the terms do not differ very much 
from one another ; so that in such cases something will be gained in 
accuracy by taking the intrinsic weights into account. 

By the use of formulas such as (10), (17), (10), or (20), we can grad- 
uate approximately all the terms in a series except the first two and 
last two. Tliese also can be reached by means of the general formula 
(2). Let us take six consecutive terms in three groui)s, so as to have — 

wi=;>, 7/2=2, n'j=l, «i=f, «3=|j n — 1 

Then for the first term we have — 

and the formula reduces to — 

<<,=.r(5Si_,r-,S2+4S,) ^ 

For the second term we have — 

and consequently — 

«;=j_(14Si+4S2-5S3) ; 



(25) 



(20) 



294 METHODS OF INTERPOLATION. 

These formulas give exact results wbeu applied to auy series of tbe 
second order. 

Let us now make iiz an even number in formula (2), and assume as 
before — 

«3 = »1, «3 = ^'l 

s 

and let y' represent wbat - becomes wben we take — 

then y' is tbe middle ordinate of tbe middle area S2, and we bave tbis 
formula : 

Wben Si, S2, S3 denote stationary population living witbin tbree inter- 
Aals of age, tbe two lateral intervals being of ??i years eacb, and tbei'r 
middle points being eacb distant «i years from tbe middle point of tbe 
middle interval, wbicb consists of 923 years, tben y' is an adjusted value 
for tbe number of persons wbo annually attain tbe exact middle age of 
tbe middle interval. Tbe simplest case is wbere we bave tbe populations 
Wi, U2, 1(3, «4, living witbin four consecutive years of age, and take tbe 
two middle ones as tbe middle group, and eacb of tbe otbers as a lat- 
eral group ; tben — 

"1 = 1, «2=2, fli=f 

and (27) reduces to — 

2/'=-rV[7S.,-(S, + S:0J ) 

[(28) 
=tL[7(m2+^v,)-(«, + «,)J ) 

For example, i( iii, ?/•>, «3, «4, denote stationary population living witbin 
tbe ages 38 to 39, 39 to 40, 40 to 41, and 41 to 42, tben ?/' is tbe nund)er 
annually attaining tbe age 40. And even if tbe population is not 
stationary, but increases or diminisbes from natural causes or by migra- 
tion, still, if Wi, U2, &c., denote tbe mean population living witbin tbe 
ages named during a given number of years, tben y' will be tbe mean 
nmnber annually attaining tbe age 40, as before. 

Adjustment formulas analogous to (13) and (27) can also be derived 
from (8) by taking x=0 and n = l or 11=0. It can be sbown tbat (13) 
and (27) are particular cases under tbese, so tbat all tbe special adjust- 
ment formulas derived from tbem will give exact results wben rpplied 
to series of tbe tbird order as well as tbe second. 

If in formula (8) we take ?ii = «2=0, tben — , "^ " , -- , and -^ will rep- 

iii 712 ^'2 "1 

resent ordinates to tbe curve, and may be denoted bj^ 2/1? Jhj i/.h '^^^^^ !/*• 

If we also take — 

a-=0, fl,=f, «2=i, 'J=l, S = 2<' 

tben (8) reduces to — 

u'=U^o{if2+y.)-{yi+i!.o] .*. . (29) 



METHODS OF INTERPOLATION. 295 

Hero ?/i, ?/2, ?/:!, and 7/4 are four equidistant ordinates to a curve of the 
third or any h)wer order, and n' is the area between the twoniiddh' ordi- 
nates. Hence, when the mean numbers of i)ersons annually attaining 
ea(;h of four consecutive ages are known, the mean iJOpulation living 
between the two middle ages can l)e comi)uted by this formula. For 
instance, if ^i, i/-2, y?., and ^4 denote the numbers annually attaining the 
ages JS), 40, 41, and lU, then w' is the population living between the ages 
40 and 41. 

Let us now make a practical apjdication of the second m«4hod of 
a<ljustment, in graduating the iriegular rate of mortality given in column 
{(■i) of Table XL This is a new experience table (juite recently ])ublished 
in England in an unadjusted form. It is jn'obably correct in its essential 
features, and suited ibr practical use, having been prepared by the Insti- 
tute of Actuaries, from the experience of twenty British life insurance 
companies, all of which had been in existence more than twenty years, so 
that the average duration of the policies observed was about nine years. 
The original publication not being at hand, the data have been taken 
as they are given in the Massachusetts and New York State Insurance 
lte[)orts of 18G9. The probabilities of dying within a year at ea'di 
age, according to these data, and multiplied by 100, are as they stand 
in column (//), for the ages 18 to 01 inclusive. The original series ex- 
tends froiu the age 10 to 90, but a few of the earliest and latest terms 
show such irregularities as to be evidently worthless for the ])nrpose of 
graduation. This is owing to the paucity of observations at those ages. 
There were no deaths at all at the ages 11, 10, and 94, and no survivors 
at the age 97. The eight terms from 10 to 17 are therefore rejected 
here, and their jdaces supplied b}' others taken from the English life- 
table, No. 3, for males, reduced a little to correspond with the new rate. 
The sum of the terms for the eight ages 18 to 25 is 5.1802 by the new 
table, and is 0.G775 by the table No. 3. Accordingly, each of the first 
eight terms in series [d) is taken from the table No. 3, but diminished 
in the ratio of GG775 to 518G2. The eight last terms, from 92 to 99, 
have been obtained in a similar way, using the sums of the terms for 
the eight ages next i^receding, so as to increase the values given by 
the table No. 3 in the ratio of 1843G to 1845G. Series {d) thus com- 
pleted, has been approximately adjusted by means of Ibrmuhi (20), 
which reaches all the terms excei)t the tirst lour and last four. The 
result is given in column (c). For instance, at the age 30 the adjusted 
term is — 

«5=-iJ8.2341 + 7(.74000+.72027) + 4(.77808+.83G35) 
-f (.G5324-f .83200) — 2(.G9197 + .87340)] 
=.77770 

At the ages 13 and 9G the adjustment has been made by formula (18), 
at the ages 12 and 97 by (10), at 1 1 and 98 by (2G), aiul at 10 and 99 by 
(25). Todiunnish some irregularitiesstill existing in series (c), the adjust- 
meut has been repeated, only this time formula (IG) was used throughout. 



296 



METHODS OF INTERPOLATION. 



The result is shown in cohmm (/).* This is a roughly adjusted series, 

approximating' closely to the form of the original series {d); too closely, 

however, for it retains at least one undulation which is abnormal, and 

would doubtless not have appeared if the number of observations on 

which the earlier portion of series {(1) is based had been very greatly 

increased. It is an acknowledged principle that after the age of 12 or 13, 

at which the probability of dying within a year is a minimum, the rate 

of mortality ought to go on increasing continuously up to the limit of 

old age. But in series (/) it increases up to the age 22, then diminishes 

up to 25, then increases agqin continuously. To remedy this fault, and 

also to perfect the graduation, some further process of adjustment will 

be required. 

Table II. 



Age. 


(rJ) 


(0 


(/) 


Decade. 


io) 


(//) 


Age. 










4-13 
5-14 


6. 0501 
5. 3587 






'ibV. 


* 43626' 


.'43244" 


.'43143 


.'42(576' 


"ib 


11.. 


. 392'c^2 


. 39460 


. 39407 


6-15 


4. 8884 


. 40437 


11 


12.. 


. 37047 


. 37 034 


.37184 


7-16 


4. 6001 


. 39(559 


12 


13.. 


. 36576 


. 36580 


. 36420 


8-17 


4. 4594 


.40030 


13 


14.. 


. 37692 


. 37212 


. 37120 


9-18 


4. 43(55 


,41283 


14 


15.. 


. 40177 


. 39639 


. 40160 


10-19 


4. .5052 


.43190 


15 


IG.. 


.43719 


. 45493 


. 449(i6 


11-20 


4. (5434 


. 45559 


16 


17.. 


. 48163 


.51192 


. 51820 


12-21 


4. 8323 


. 48231 


17 


18.. 


. 60556 


. 58421 


. 57807 


13-22 


5. 0562 


.51074 


18 


H).. 


.70-219 


. 62583 


. 62494 


14-23 


5. 3021 


. .53984 


19 


20.. 


. 582:';6 


. 65223 


. 66049 


15-24 


5. 5597 


. 56879 


20 


21.. 


, 70084 


. 68776 


. 67539 


1(3-25 


5.8210 


.59700 


21 


22.. 


.62151 


.67417 


. 68445 


17-26 


6. 0798 


. (52404 


22 


23.. 


. 77380 


. 67688 


.67164 


18-27 


6. 3318 


. (549(5(5 


23 


24.. 


. (58369 


. 65849 


. 65506 


19-28 


6. .5743 


.(57373 


24 


25.. 


. 516:;0 


. 63398 


. (54249 


20-29 


6. 8058 


. 69625 


25 


26.. 


. «;9197 


. 65258 


. 64742 


21-30 


7. 0261 


.71731 


26 


27.. 


. (55324 


. 67830 


. 68305 


22-31 


7. 2357 


. 73708 


27 


28.. 


. 77808 


. 72668 


. 72.52(5 


23-32 


7. 4361 


. 75580 


23 


2D.. 


. 74000 


. 76.574 


. 7605(5 


24-33 


7. 6292 


. 77374 


29 


30.. 


. 82341 


. 77770 


. 78223 


25-34 


7. 8176 


. 79122 


30 


31.. 


. 72927 


. 79659 


. 7i>4-^9 


26-35 


8. 0042 


. ,-0858 


31 


32.. 


. 83635 


.81111 


.81229 


27-36 


8. 1921 


. 82618 


32 


33.. 


. 83200 


. 82694 


. 82432 


28-37 


8. 3845 


. 84437 


33 


34.. 


. 87346 


. 83797 


. 84023 


29-38 


8. 5848 


. 86351 


34 


35.. 


.82319 


. 86430 


. 8(5433 


30-39 


8. 7964 


. 88399 


35 


36.. 


. 87()78 


. 90344 


. 90477 


31-40 


9. 0228 


.90613 


36 


37.. 


. 95530 


. 95256 


.95107 


32-41 


9. 2672 


. 93023 


37 


3S.. 


1.03(;00 


. 99555 


. 998i8 


33-42 


9. 533)0 


. 95(5(50 


38 


39.. 


1.05880 


1.0312 


1. (J240 


34-43 


9. 8234 


. 9S5Sv> 


39 


40.. 


. 98504 


1.0310 


1.0345 


35-44 


10. 142 


l.(i]>0 


40 


41.. 


1.0440 


1. 0:587 


1.0404 


36-45 


10. 491 


1 . 0529 


41 


42.. 


1.0798 


1.0626 


1.0587 


37-46 


10. 874 


1.0917 


42 


43.. 


1.0540 


1. 0936 


1.1011 


38-47 


11.295 


1.1345 


43 


44.. 


1. 1793 


l.l(il5 


1. 1557 


39-48 


n.757 


1. 1812 


44 


45.. 


1. 2447 


1. 2210 


1.2207 


40-49 


12. 263 


1. 2326 


45 


46.. 


1.2474 


1.2848 


1.2887 


41-50 


12. 818 


1. 2~>-^ 


46 


47.. 


1. 4079 


1. 3689 


1.3650 


42-51 


13. 425 


1. :;.'ii5 


47 


48.. 


1.4147 


1.4501 


1.4547 


43-52 


14.090 


1. 1177 


48 


49.. 


1. 5297 


1. 5444 


1.5439 


44-53 


14. 81(5 


1. 4907 


49 


50.. 


1. 6497 


1. 6220 


1. 6120 


45-54 


15.611 


1.5714 


50 



*In all the terms of series (d), (c), and (/), the fifth figure might as weU have been 
neglected. It has no real value, aud does not assist the graduation. 



METHODS OF INTERPOLATION. 
Table II — Coutinuecl. 



297 



Age. 


(^0 


ie) 


(./) 


Decade. 


(0) 


(/') 


1 
Age. 


51.- 


1.7333 


1. 6581 


1. 6665 


46-55 


16.481 


1. 6593 


51 


52.. 


1.7070 


1.7281 


1.7251 


47-56 


17. 432 


1.7549 


52 


53.. 


1.7221 


1. 8234 


1. 8259 


48-57 


13. 473 


1. 8599 


53 


54.. 


1 . 8996 


i.9;;.->7 


1.9764 


49-58 


19. 614 


1 . 9750 


54 


55.. 


2. 296G 


2.1514 


2. i:?26 


50-59 


20.864 


2. 1008 


55 


56.. 


2. 3045 


2. 2701 


2. 2783 


51-60 


22. 235 


2. 2:592 


56 


57.. 


2. 3903 


2. 3998 


2. 3976 


52-61 


2:5. 740 


2. 3909 


57 


58.. 


2. 5133 


2. 5368 


2. 5:50:5 


53-62 


25. :591 


2.5571 


58 


5'J.. 


2. 5285 


2. (5990 


2.7195 


54-63 


27. 205 


2. 7402 


59 


GO.. 


3.1197 


2. 9383 


2. 9.541 


55-64 


29. 1G8 


2.9417 


60 


61.. 


3. 2552 


3. 2234 


3. 2248 


56-65 


31. :588 


3. Ui;;o 


61 


62.. 


3. 4551 


3. 4873 


3. 4953 


57-66 


3:5. 793 


3. 4064 


62 


63.. 


3. 7474 


3.7711 


3. 7525 


58-!37 


3(5. 435 


:5.(i741 


63 


6-1.. 


4.0101 


4. 0053 


4. 0133 


59-63 


39. 334 


3. 9679 


64 


65.. 


4. 3602 


4.3065 


4. 3256 


60-69 


42.514 


4.2911 


65 


66.. 


4. 6J50 


4.7110 


4. 6986 


61-70 


45. 999 


4. 6454 


66 


67.. 


4. 8932 


5. 0;)39 


5. 0409 


62-71 


49. S12 


5. 0:5:54 


67 


68.. 


5. 5426 


5. 3:538 


5. 3803 


63-72 


53. 980 


5. 4584 


68 


69.. 


6. 0UU6 


5.7198 


5. 6290 


64-73 


58. 523 


5. 9224 


69 


70.. 


5. 6156 


5. 9543 


6. 0.544 


65-74 


(3:5. 482 


6. 4286 


70 


71.. 


6.2011 


6. 6791 


6. 6521 


66-75 


68. 8(53 


6. 9794 


71 


72.. 


7 . 9.^(!9 


7. 5:'!r)5 


7. 5263 


67-76 


74.711 


7. 5773 


72 


73.. 


7.81J41 


8.4413 


8. 4927 


68-77 


81. 0:56 


8. 2260 


73 


74.. 


10. 5370 


9. 4102 


9. 3078 


69-78 


87. 865 


8. 92(59 


74 


75.. 


9. 4621 


9. 9458 


10. 000 


70-79 


95. 221 


9. 6824 


75 


76.- 


10. 624 


10. .575 


10. .568 


71-80 


10:5.12 


10.493 


76 


77.. 


10. s;;9 


11.278 


11.269 


72-81 


111.. 58 


11.366 


77 


78.. 


12. :;o3 


12. 101 


12. 1(»1 


7:5-82 


120. 62 


12. 298 


78 


79.. 


i:;. 594 


13. 185 


13. 250 


74-83 


1:50.23 


13. '28G 


79 


80.. 


14. 080 


14. V)C>n 


14. 599 


75-84 


140.42 


14.:5:36 


80 


81.. 


15. 970 


16. 039 


16. 0.58 


76-85 


151. 19 


15. 4.52 


81 


82.. 


17. 214 


17.477 


17. .578 


77-86 


1(52.53 


16. (523 


82 


83-- 


20. 673 


18. 968 


18.6:59 


78-87 


174. 40 


17. 849 


83 


84.. 


IH o;"0 


19. 487 


19. 9:50 


79-88 


186. 79 


19. 133 


84 


85.. 


21.627 


21.294 


21.070 


80-89 


199. 65 


20. 465 


85 


86.. 


21.698 


22. 214 


22.020 


81-90 


212. 93 


21. 845 


86 


87.. 


21.687 


'22. 307 


22. 747 


82-91 


226. 56 


2:5. 259 


87 


88.. 


28. 462 


23.571 


2:5. 0.56 


8;5-92 


240. 45 


24. 703 


83 


89.. 


19. 355 


2:?. 608 


2:5. 9.58 


84-93 


254. 51 


2(5. 1(57 


89 


90-- 


22. 667 


25. 172 


2."". 247 


8.5-94 


263. 61 


27. 6:58 


90 


91.. 


31. o;'.4 


27. 515 


27. 206 


86-95 


282. 62 


29. 100 


91 


92.. 


29. 427 


29. 141 


29. 510 


•*87-96 


29(5. 36 


30. 539 


92 


93.. 


30. 979 


31.644 


81. 3:56 


88-97 


309. 66 


31.9:55 


93 


94.. 


32. 531 


32. 927 


32. 921 


89-98 


322. 28 


33. 262 


94 


95.. 


34. 251 


3:5. 975 


34. 182 


90-99 


3:5:5. 99 


34. 500 


95 


9iy.. 


35. 805 


35. 829 


35. 687 


91-100 


344. 50 


;55. (il3 


96 


97-. 


37. 541 


37. 458 


37. .521 


92-101 


3.53. 50 


36. 584 


97 


93.. 


39. 133 


39. 250 


39. 1.55 


9:5-102 


360. 63 


37. 363 


98 


99.. 


41. 089 


40. 962 


41.226 


94-10:5 


365. 50 


37. 914 


99 


100.. 








9.5-104 
9C5-I05 


367. 66 
366. 62 


39. 494 
42. 102 
45. 7:59 
50. 404 
.56. 093 
(52. 821 
70. 573 
79. :553 
89. 162 
100. 000 


100 


101.. 









101 


102.. 




1 




102 


103.. 












103 


104 . . 













104 


105- . 













105 


106.- 













106 


107.. 












107 


108.. 












108 


109.. 












109 

















298 METHODS OF INTERPOLATION. 

The foregoiniif metliod affords a ready means of diiuinishing the irregu- 
larities of a series witliout removing them altogether. It can be proved 
that in a series of the mth order, if any >n +1 or more eonseeutive terms 
are adjusted by any single formula, such as (10) or (liO), the adjnsted 
values will themselves form a series of the mth order. But, although the 
order of the series remains unchanged, the absolute values of the ditter- 
euces are in general diminished, and thus an approximate graduation is 
secured. 

THIRD METHOD OF ADJUSTMENT. 

The second method can be combined with ordinary interpolation in 
such a way as to fnrnish an adjusted series of any given order, extending 
to any desired number of places of decimals. For example, let the terms 
of series (/) in Table II be grouped together by decades of age, as was 
done in forming (c) in Table I. The ninety terms form nine groups of 
teu terms each. Their sums are — 

Si=4.r)0r)21 84 = 12.20.340 St= 05.22130 

52 = 0.80r)8 1 S5 = 20.80420 S^ = 199.05500 

53 = 8.79041 Se = 42.51440 Sg = 333.99100 
These nine values tx)rm a series which has eight orders of differences, 
as follows: 

Ji= 2.30000 J3 = 1.78039 ^ = 2.38714 J, = -10.70885 
J2 = —.31000 J4 = 1.87103 Jg = 3.44040 Js=- 7.75719 
Using the ordinary formula for interpolation by finite differences, we 
can obtain nine equidistant values between every two terms of this 
series, so as to make 81 terms in all, forming a perfectly graduated 
series of the eighth order. The terms of this series are approximately 
the sums of the terms in (/) for every possible decade of age, commencing- 
with 10 to 19, 11 to 20, 12 to 21, &c., and ending with 90 to 99. To (con- 
struct the series, nine consecutive terms were carefully computed, their 
eight orders of differences were taken, and the rest of the series was 
constructed therefrom by simple^additions and subtractions. One great 
advantage of this mode of procedure is, that the agreement of the 
values thus found for the decades 10-19, 20-29, &c., with the given 
values S], S2, Sec, furnishes a convenient test of the accuracy of the 
whole work. It is necessary, however, to carry out the values of the 
function and the differences to a large number of places of decimals, 
otherwise the error represented by th(5 neglected figures will accumulate 
so as finally to vitiate some of the results. In the present case, the 
decimals were carried out as far as they would go ; that is, to twenty 
jjlaces. 

The series is readily extended by the same law, so as to comprise all 
the possible decades of age from 4-13 to 90-105. Thus completed, it is 
given in column (g). Now let Si, 83, 83, 84, be any four consecutive 
terms in it, and in formula ( 8 ) take — 

Wi = «2 = 10, «i = |, 02=^, ir=0, 'n^l, 8 = m' 



METHODS OF INTEKPOLATION. 299 

then we have — 

w'=JJ21(S,+S,)-17(S, + S,)] . . . (30) 
Tliis forumla gives an adjusted value tor any term iu series (./') by 
means of the sums of the terms in tlie four nearest decades as given in 
series {<j). For instance, at the age '.'>') tlie vahic obtained is — 
u' = J^[2l (8.79G4+<J.UL'i:S)— 17 (S.5«4S+l>.'JG7li)] 
= .88399 
Cohiinn (//) shows the gradnated series, carried to as many places of 
decimals as are needed in order to give live sigiiilicaut tigures. It is of 
the eighth order, and the arithmt^tical means of the terms in the nine 
decades 10-19, 20-29, &c., are ap])roxinrately equal to those in sei-ies (^■), 
though not precisely so. This method of adjustment, however, has one 
advantage, namely, that it enables us to divide a given series into a 
large number of gronps, and make the graduated series of as high an 
order as we please, without previously o1)taining formnlas like (E) and 
(F), which require some labor when the number of grou[)s is increased. 
If the number of terms in a group is other than ten, it will be easy to 
find a corresponding formula similar to (30). When it is an odd num- 
ber the formula will l)e derived from (13) instead of from (8). For ex- 
ample, with eleven terms in a group we have — 

7Ji = }J2 = ll, fli^l 

and (13) becomes — 

«' = S.-A(S. + S,) .... (31) 

giving the adjusted value of a term by means of the sunjs of the terms 
in the three nearest groups of eleven terms each. 

Series {h) shows a mujiunim at the age 12, and increases continu- 
onsly thereafter. It terminates at the age 99, and must not be ex- 
tended farther by the same law, for since {{/) is a series of an even order 
with the hnal difference, Ja, negative, it will, if produced far enough, 
diminish at both ends instead of increasing as the rate of mortality 
does. The limit of old age is evidently not reached until one year after 
the point where the i)robability of <lying within a year becomes nnity, 
that is, certainty. The position of the limit is very doubtful. The old 
Combined E\i»erience table places it at 100, the Carlisle table at 105, 
the ICnglish Life Table No. 3 at 108, the French table of Deparcienx at 
95, the tables of Duvillard and De Montferrand at 110, and the United 
States census table of 18(J0 at lOG. Owing to the paucity of reliable 
observations at the greatest ages, the termination of series (h), or that 
of any other graduated table, mnst necessarily be somewhat artilicial. 
This is not of much consequence in practice, for the chance of attaining 
any age beyond 100 is so small as to make but little difference in the 
valne of an assurance or annuity for a person in middle life. If we 
assume 110 as the limit in the i)resent case, then from the three known 
values of the probability for the ages 98, 99, and 109, the values for the 



300 METHODS OB^ INTERPOLATION. 

ages 100 to 108 can be computed by ordinary interpolation. Formula 
(2) ma}- be used for this purpose. If we talce — 

Wl = «2 = W3^1, n=l, S^-«, Si=«i, S2=W2, S3=«3 

that formula reduces to — 

K=:«i«3(<,j + ^,3) V (32) 

If ?Ai, ?/-;,, W3, denote any three terms in a series, and the origin of coor- 
dinates is at «2, and cii and «,-, denote the positive distances of Ui and 
«3 from Uo. the above formula, enables us to interpolate any fourth term, 
w, whose abscissa is x. If we now take — 

«i=l, «3=10, «i=37.oG3, W2=37.914, M3=:100 
formula (32) becomes — 

tt=37.914+1.0G53^+ .51433 x^ 
When the values 1, 2, 3, &c., areassigned to .rin this equation, the result- 
ing values of M will be the desired terms for the ages 100, 101, 102, &c., 
as they stand in column {h). The continuity of this added portion with 
the rest of the series may be improved a little by adjusting, with form- 
ula (20), a few of the terms adjacent to the point of junction. The ad- 
justed values are as follows : 

A<:;e. 

96 35.535 

97 3G.30S 

98 37.139 

99 38.114 

100 : ... . 39.701 

101 42.180 

Series (/(), thus amended, is ready for practical use in the construction 
of commutation tables. 

It is not claimed that this series is the best one which can possibly be 
obtained by similar methods. The preliminary adjustment by the second 
method admits of some variation, and repeated trials woidd be required 
to determine Avhether the form of the final series might not be varied 
with advantage by making it of some other order than the eighth, or by 
taking the groujjs between some other limits than 10 and 99, or by both 
these modifications together. But it is believed tliat the graduation 
here obtained is accurate enough for practical purposes, and will com- 
pare favorably with that of any table now in use. . 

We do not know, and perhai)s never can know, anything definite re- 
specting the precise analytical form of that function which we call the 
law of mortality. Various formidas, mostly transcendental, have been 
devised to express it, but no one of them has yet received universal 
recognition as correct to the exclusion of all otMers. While this state 



METHODS OF INTERPOLATION. 301 

of the case continues, the problem of constructing'' a tabh^ of mortality 
must be regarded as, to some extent, an indeterminate one. Not only 
is absolute accuracy unattainable, but we cannot even decide, by the 
method of least squares, that a certain result is the most probable of 
any; for the true form of the function beinj^' unknown, any particular 
residual error, or difference between the observed and computed values 
of H term, will in general be the aggregate of two errors, one of them 
due to the difference of form between the assumed function and the true 
one, and the other due to the error of observation or difference between 
the observed value and the true value. The latter portion only can be 
of the nature of accidental errors, so as to be subject to that law of dis- 
tribution Avhich the method of least squares assumes, and which is 
derived from the theory of probabilities. Hence, we cannot infer that 
because we have made the sum of the squares csf the residuals a mini- 
mum, the resulting values of the constants which enter into the assumed 
equation of the series must be the most probable values. To justify 
such an inference, it would be necessary to make the sum of the s(piares 
of the accidental i)ortions of the residuals alone a minimum ; but we 
have no means of effecting this, for we cannot separate the accidental 
portions from the others. When the method of least squares is applied 
under circumstances like these, it loses its peculiar claims to theo- 
retical accuracy, ami becomes merely a method of interpolation, whose 
merits are to be judged, like those of other methods, by the amount of 
labor required in obtaining the final results, and by the degree of ac- 
curacy Avith which these results represent the observations. We may 
in-esume that the best method of reduction for tables of mortality is 
that which will give, in the simplest manner, a graduated series conform- 
ing to those conditions which are known to govern such tables, and 
representing the observations with the necessary degree of accuracy. 
In behalf of the method here proposed, it may be said that the process 
of computation is comi)aratively simple; that the observations are 
represented with great accuracy throughout all the middle ages of life, 
which is just the i)ortion where accuracy is most important in practice; 
and that a transcendental fornuila, if it contains not more than three 
or four constants, will be very likely to prove inferior in this respect. 

From all the foregoing considerations we conclude that a very good 
way to graduate an experience rate of mortality for insured lives will 
be, to forma series like (r/), expressing the probability of dying within 
a year, at each age, and to adjust it approximately, in the first place, by 
some formula or formulas under the second method, and then, dividing 
the adjusted terms into the proper number of groups, to complete the 
graduation by either the first or the third method. Treated in this way, 
the arithmetical means of the terms in the several groups will be brought 
nearer to their normal value than they would be if the approximate or 
preparatory adjustment were omitted. 

In constructing a rate for general population from census returns and 



dOZ METHODS OF INTERPOLATION. 

registration of deaths, it will probably be best to adjust the population 
for each j'earof age at each census approximately by the second method; 
that is, by (liO) or some similar formula. The returns of two or more 
census enumerations thus adjusted will enable us to comijute approxi- 
mately, by known methods, the mean population living within each year 
of age during the period embraced by the registry of deaths; and from 
this series the meannumber of ikmsous who annually attained each year 
of age during that period can be found by (28) or some similar fornuda. 
The mean number of deaths annually occurring within each year of age 
must also be adjusted approximately by the second method, and then we 
shall only have to divide these annual deaths for each year of age by the 
mean number of persons annually attaining such age, to obtain an approx- 
imately adjusted series exi)ressing the probability of dying within a year 
at each age. The graduation of this series can be completed by either 
the first or the third method, and from it we can construct the usual 
series of the numbers who live to attain each year of age out of a gi\en 
number of persons who are born. 

It should be remarked, however, that in infancy and early childhood 
the rate of mortality varies so rapidly that the years ought not to be 
grouped together as in the first and third methods. l>ut these years are 
unimportant so far as life insurance and annuities are concerned, and 
for practical purposes it will suffice to have a completely graduated 
series from the age of ten or fifteen up to the limit of old age, and to 
adjust the series at the earliest ages by the second method only, or not 
at all. The latter alternative is perhaps the best, since the ages of 
young children can be ascertained with greater certainty than those of 
adults. 

The accuracy of a series obtained by the first or the third method will 
be greatest at and near the middle, and least at the extremities. If it 
should be found that the graduated values at either end of a table of 
mortality thus constructed are sensibly erroneous, they can be rejected, 
and their places supplied by the original values, and the adjustment 
of these, and their continuity with the graduated portion, can be 
approximately secured by the use of some fornuda under the second 
method. 

METHOD OF CONSTRFCTING A TABLE OF MORTALITY WITHOUT ANY 
REGISTRATION OF DEATHS. 

It has been proposed to determine the law of mortality for general 
population throughout a whole country by means of two successive cen- 
sus enumerations, taken, for instance, at intervals of ten years, as is now 
the case in the United States and in Great Britain, together with a reg- 
istry of the immigration and emigration which (;c('urs during the inter- 
vening ten-year period. If at the first census a certain population, Pu„ 
is returned as aged m and under m-\-l years, then at the second census 
the survivors among them will be returned aa. aged w-f 10 and under 



METHODS OF INTERPOLATION. 303 

w+11 years, nud the difference P,„ — P,„ + lo between these two ennnier- 

ations will be the number of deaths vviiich have occurred out of the i)Oi»- 

ulation P,„ within the ten year period, if there has been no immigration 

or emigration, or if the immigration and emigration have been equal, so 

as to balance each other. ♦If we regard P^ and P,„ + lo nn representing 

the numbers annually attaining the exact ages m-\-A and ?» + 10.j, then 

p 
the fraction — "^^^ will denote the probability that a person aged 

7» + A will live ten years. 

In the United States, however, the number of immigrants contin- 
ually entering the country is so large as to becon^e very important in 
this connection. Emigration from the country is comparatively snnill ; 
but assuujing, for the sake of generality, that there has been a registry 
kept of the ages of both immigrants and emigrants, let us denote by I 
the number of persons who have entered the country during the ten- 
year period, and who are of such age as to have been m and under t)i-\-i 
years old at the time of the first census, and let I'j denote the number 
of persons of similar age who have left the country during the same 
period. Also let D be the nund)er of deaths which have occurred in the 
country out of the excess I — E of immigrants over emigrants, ami let 
Pm + ]„ denote the population returned as aged )u-\-l() and under )«-flI 
at the second census. Then the portion of I — I] surviving at the second 
census is I — E — I), and the difference P,„ + lo — (I — E — D) is equal to 
that portion of the initial po})ulation P,„ which survives at the tinu' of 
the second census. The probability that a i»erson aged w/ + i will live 
ten years is therefore expressed by — 

P,„^io-(I-E-D) 

All the quantities involved in this fraction are known excepting the 
deaths D ; and as this is a small number compared with the others, the 
result will not be seriously affected if we compute the value of D, or, 
what amounts to the same thing, comi>ute the survivors (1 — E — D), 
by means of any good table of general mortality, considering separately 
the excess of immigrants of the sui)posed age who have entered the 
country in each one of the ten years. (See the Assurance IMagazinc for 
April, 1SG7, page 2S1).) 

We can thus obtain the probability of living ten years for the middle 
of every year of age throughout the whole term of life. If the statistics 
of i)oi)ulatiou and migration are given in the first place by dec;!des or 
other intervals of age, the numbers can be distributed among the single 
years by means of (3) or sonu^ similar formula derivable from (2), (8), or 
(C). On the other hand, if th(^ statistics are given for singh^ years, the 
irregulaiities of the series can be diminished by using some formula 
under the second method of adjustment. We may assnme, then, that 
the probability of living ten years has been ascertained for the middle 
of each single year of age, and that these probabilities form an a[)proxi. 



304 METHODS OF INTERPOLATION, 

inately adjusted series. The problem which remains to be solved is, to 
find the probabilitj^ of living one year at each age when the above-men- 
tioned probabilities of living ten years are given. 

It is an interesting point in rehition to the whole subject of graduation 
of numerical series, that, instead of gradu;Uing a given series directly, 
we can take a constant function of each term in it, thus forming a new 
series, and, having graduated this, we can inversely derive from each of 
its terms a graduated value for the corresponding term in the original 
series. One consequence of this principle is, that if we take the loga- 
rithm of each term in the given series, and divide the series of logarithms 
thus formed into groups and graduate it by the tirst method, and then ' 
take the numbers corresponding to the graduated logarithms, we shall 
have a graduated series representing the given one, and possessing this 
l^roperty, that the products of the terms in the assumed groups in it will 
be severally equal to the products of the terms in the corresponding 
groups in the given series. This is evidently the case, because the suras 
of the lognrithms of the terms in the assumed groups are equal in the two 
series. Furthermore, since the equation of the graduated series of loga- 
rithms enables us to interpolate the sum of the logarithms of the terms 
in any group when the sums of the logarithms of the terms in the assumed 
groups are given, it follows that when the products of the terms, in any 
assumed groups in a numerical series, are known, we can find, by interpo- 
lation, the product of the terms in any other group, or any single term. 

Now let jhn + i.i l>m H-it,, Pm + 2!,i &'"•? dcuotc the probabilities of livingone 
year at the exact ages w+i, w-fl.^, w + 2^, &c. The chance of living 
through any one year of age is contingent upon having lived through the 
years which precede it, so that the probability that a person aged ?«-f^ 
will live two years is equal to the product j)m + i^Xi^m + u,7 <iiitl the proba- 
bility that he will live ten years is equal to the continued product — 

I'm + >. X J^m + 11. X /^m + 2!,; X 'XPm + Sii 

It appears, then, that the probabilities of living one year at each age 
form a series such that the product of any n terms taken in a group 
is equal to the probability of living 7i years at the age corresponding to 
the first term in the group ; and hence, according to the principles which 
have been stated, we can find, by interpolation, the probabilities of liv- 
ing one year when the probabilities of living ten years are known. 

Any twelve consecutive terms in a series will form three groups often 
terms each, and fornuda (2) will enable us to find any single term by 
means of the sums of the terms in the three groups. If we take — 

»J^ = 5?2 = ^'3 = 10, ai = rt3 = l, ?l = l, S = M 

then (2) reduces to — 

« = J [74So— 33(Si.fS3)4-4(S3— Si)x+4(Si-fS3— 2S,),r=] . . (33\ 

Let Si, S2, and S3 represent the logarithms of the probabilities of living 
ten years at the ages7« + i, w-f lA, and w + 2^, respectively ; then if we 



METHODS OF INTERPOLATIOX. 305 

assign to J7 tbe values — i, +i, +^, &o., in snccession, the resulting 
values of u will be the logarithms of the probabilities of living one year 
at the ages m-\-5^j ?«+<>A, ^" + ''^^5 &c- If we take .r=0, tlie value of 
u will be the logarithm of the probability of living one year at the age 
m+6, and w^e shall have the simple formula — 

logi^n, +G= 3^7-1 S,—33(S, + S3)] . . . (34) 

To illustrate the use of this by an example, and to test its accuracy at 
the same time, let us suppose that there is no migration, and assume 
that, in accordance with the English Life Table, No. 3, for males, the 
population living at the first census, between the ages of 54 and 55, 55 
and 56, 50 and 57, respectively is — 

P54=2120G1, P55=20C984, P56=201772 

and that the survivors at the second census are — 

r6, = 154139, Pc5 = 147319, Pee = 140299 

The logarithms of the probabilities of living ten years at the three ages 
54^, 55i, and 5Gi are therefore — 

Si = log Pe4 — log P54 = 1.8014518 

S2=logPe5— logP55=-1.8523219 

S3=log Pee— log Pse = 1.8421937 

and since ?«=54, we find that the logarithm of the probability of living 
one year at the age ;» + 0=C0 is — 

log j;6o=8V[74 S2-33(Si+ S3)] =1.9850440 

This value differs but very little from the one which is actually given 
by the English table, namely — 

logi>Go=log/ei-log7co=log 170421 -log 182350=1.9850445 

The method followed in the above example will be found sufficient for 
the determination of the probability of living one year after every birth- 
day, except the first nine or ten of childhood and the last seven of old 
age. With the help of formula (33) we can find the probabilities for all the 
ages of childhood, except the first three or four, by assigning to a' the nega- 
tive values — 1, — 2, — 3, &c., which will give values for log2)m+5, 
logi>m^-4, losihni.3, &c. So, too, for the last years of life, w^e can find 
log Pn, + 7, logj^u, + 8, \og2hn + 9, &c., by assigning to x the positive values 1, 2, 
3, &c. This will comi)lete the series of values of log p from early child- 
hood to extreme old age. As it will be alreadj^ approximately adjusted, 
nothing more will remain but to divide it into groups of an equal num- 
ber of terms each, and to make the final graduation by either the first 
or the third method. There will be a convenience in graduating the 
logarithms instead of the corresi>onding numbers, because logj>, and 
not p itself, is what we require for computing in the most expeditious 
manner the numbers living to attain each year of age out of a given. 
20 s 71 



306 METHODS OF INTERPOLATION. 

number of persons Tvbo are born. It is quite possible, too, tbat tbe 
form of the series may be imj)roved by this mode of procedure. 

The foregoing method of reduction will evidently apjilj' to cases where 
the interval between the two census enumerations is any whole number of 
years other than ten, or even a fractional number. Suppose it to be ten 
and one-half years for instance, and take — 

7Jl = 7?2=«3=%S «i = «3 = l, 11 = 1, S = u 

then formula (2) reduces to — 

S=ToW970S2-437(Si+S3)+48(S3-Si)j^+48(Si+S3-2S2)^] . . (35) 

Let Si, S2, and S3 be the logarithms of the probabilities of living ten and 
one-half years at the ages m+^, wi+li, and m+2i respectively; then 
if we assign to x the values — f, — ^, + f, «S:c., in succession, the result- 
ing values of u will be the logarithms of the probabilities of living one 
year at the ages m+S, 7n-j-6, w+T, &c. When x= — I, the formula 
becomes — 

logi>u. + 6=5k(482S2-211Sx-223S3) . . (3G) 

from which values of log^ can easily be found for all but the extreme 
ages of life. 

If the interval is either exactly or approximately an odd number of 
years, there will be a slight advantage in deriving the formula of reduc- 
tion from (S) rather than from (2). Suppose, for instance, that the second 
census is taken five years after the first one. In the series of logarithms 
of the probabilities of living one year at each age, any eight consecu- 
tive terms will form four groups of five terms each, and formula (8) will 
enable us to find any single term by means of the sums of the terms in 
these groups. If we take — 

w.=W2=5j <^i=fj (f2=h n=l, S=M 

then (8) reduces to — 



:1 [17 (S2+S3)-9(Si+S4)J + J^[405(S3-S2)-103(S4-Si)] 

+ ^[(Sl-fS,)-(S2+S3)]+j^[(S4-Si)-3(S3-S2)] 



(37) 



Let Si, S2, S3, S4, denote the logarithms of the probabilities of living 
five years at the ages w-f i, w-f 1^, wi+2.^, ?»+3.^, respectively ; then if 
X takes the values —1, 0, +1, &c., in succession, the resulting values of 
u will be the logarithms of the probabilities of living one year at the 
ages ?«+3, w-f-l, w+o, «S:c. For x=0 we have the simple formula — 

logi>,n + 4=«V[17(S2+S3)-9(Si + S4)] . . . (38) 

which affords a ready means of determining log p for all the birthdays 
except the extreme ones of childhood and old age. 



METHODS OF INTERPOLATION. 307 

The general plan for graduating irregular series of numbers, wliose 
application to the construction of tables of mortality has now been in- 
dicated, will undonbtedly be found usefnl in other directions. P^very 
physical law is a mathematical relation between one or more variables 
and a function. To ascertain the form of this relation, or the law of 
the natural phenomenon, we must obtain, by observation or experiment, 
a number of values of the function corresponding to known values of 
the variable, and then endeavor to find some analytical formula which 
will connect and express them all. For a statement of the nature of 
this general problem, and of the graphical and tentative methods which 
have been employed for its solution, see the discussion of experiments 
for ascertaining tlie law of variation of the density of water at different 
temperatures, given by M. Jamin in the Cours de Fhymjne de VEcole 
PolyfecJmique, Vol. II, pages 39 to 50. The number of observed values 
of the function is ordinarily much greater tlmn the number of constants 
in the desired formula. If there is but one independent variable, and 
the observed values of the function are ])lotted as ordinates to a curve, 
the corresponding values of the variable being the abscissas, this curve 
will be a more or less irregular or wavy line, because the ordinates which 
fix successive points in it are subject to the errors of observation. In 
" an exact equation of this line, the number of constants would, in gen- 
eral, be as large as the number of observations taicen. The i)roblem 
presented is, to simplify the equation by reducing the number of con- 
stants, while preserving a form of curve which shall approximate to the 
original one as closely as possible. Our first method of graduation 
secures such approxinnition by taking the ordinates of the original curve 
in groups, and making the arithmetical means of the ordinates in the 
corresponding groups in the new curve severally equal to those in the 
original one. The equation of the new curve can only contain as many 
constants as there have been groups assumed. This plan has obvious 
advantages over the one usually followed, v/hich is, to selector compute 
as many normal ordinates to the original curve as there are to be con- 
stants in the equation of the new one, and then subject the new curve to 
the condition of passing through the extremities of these ordinates, thus 
making the a(;curacy of the new curve depend on that of the observa- 
tions, as represented by the selected ordinates, instead of depending 
alike on all the observations in each group. 

When it is not convenient to have the observed values of the function 
corresi)ond to equidistant values of the variable in the first place, they 
can be reduced to equidistant ones either graidiically, or by ordinary 
interpolation with Lagrange's formula, or with (32), which is merel}' one 
form of a special case under it. The irregularities of the series may 
then l)e diminished by the second method of adjustment, ;nid, fimilly, 
the first method will give an equation which will exi^ress the law of the 



308 METHODS OF INTERPOLATION. 

plienomenon so far as that law can be expressed by an algebraic and 
entire function.* 

In practice, when this method is to be applied to the graduation of 
a particular series, it will not be essential to have the assumed groups 
contain an equal number of terms each, nor to make the groups consecu- 
tive. Their iiositions, and the number of terms they contain, may be 
entirely arbitrary. The integral — 



S 



Jx—\n 



expresses the sum S of the terms in any group in a series of the ?wth 
order by means of the w + 1 constants A, B, C, «&c., the number n of 
terms which the group contains, and the abscissa x of the middle point 
of the group, each term in the series being regarded as an area occupy- 
ing, on the axis of X, a space equal to unity. In the case of any one of 
the assumed groups, we know the sum S of the terms in it, and their 
number ??, and the abscissa x of their middle point, so that we have an 
equation of condition which, besides the m+1 constants A, B, C, «S:c., 
contains only numerical quantities. Each group assumed furnishes one 
such equation. By assuming w + 1 gi'oups we shall have as many equa- 
tions as there are constants A, B, 0, &c., to be determined, and hence 
it will always be possible to find the numerical values of the constants. 
Substituting their values in the general expression for S, arranging the 
terms according to the powers of a?, andi)uttingw=l and S=w, we shall 
have an equation of the form — 

u-A'-\-Wx-\-Q'x^+ +T'.r'° 

which will be the equation of the graduated series, and from which that 
series may be constructed. It will have its mth differences constant 
and the arithmetical means of the terms in the corresponding groups 
in it will be severally equal to those of the terms in the m + 1 groups 
assumed in the original series. 

But although the positions of the groups and the numbers of terms 
which they may contain are thus unlimited in theory, it will probably 
be best in most cases to make them consecutive and consisting each of 
the same number of terms. When the law of a series varies very rap- 
idly in some places, and slowly in others, it may indeed be necessary to 
assume, at those portions of the series where the variation is most rapid, 
a larger number of groups, consisting of fewer terms each, than will be 
required in the portions where the variation is slow. But with a fixed 
number of groui)s, the process of finding the values of the constants A, 
B, C, &c., will be simplified if the groups are assumed so as to be sym- 
metrically situated on either side of the origin of coordinates ; that is, 
situated in such manner that for every group of terms whose abscissa 

* The constant difl'ereiice of the abscissas or argnments is here assnmefl to be unity. 
But if we wisli to rej^ard it as any other quantity h, we shall merely have to substitute, 

in the final equation, ,- in the idace of x. • 



METHODS OF INTERPOLATION. 309 

is +.r' there sliall be a group of au equal uuuiber of terms whoso 
abscissa is — x'y and vice versa. 

Cases will often occur where the. whole number of terms in a .series is 
not an exact multiple of the number of groups we wish to assume, and 
therefore will not form the desired number of consecutive groui>s con- 
taining each an equal and entire number of terms. But it is not neces- 
sarj^ that the number of terms in a group should be a whole number. 
If we suppose it to have a fractional part, then certain terms in the 
given series must be divided eacli into two portions, and each portion 
must be joined to its proper group. Every such term being geometric- 
ally represented by an area whose base is unity, and the two parts into 
which this unit is divided being known, the problem is, to divide the 
area into its two corresponding parts. We can often do this accurately 
enough for practical purposes by assuming that the two portions of the 
area are proportional to the two portions of the base ; but a much closer 
approximation will be made by taking the term in question and the two 
others nearest to it as data for an interpolation by formula (A). Let S,, 
S2, S3, be the three terms, and let n denote the first one of the two parts 
into which the base of S2 is divi<led; then if we take — 

^^1 = 1, x=-),{l-n) 

formula (A) reduces to — 

S=^[2Si+5S2-S3+o(S2-Si)« + (Si+S3-2S2);r] . . . (39)* 

where S is that portion of the area S2 which corresponds to the first 
fractional part of the base. The other portion is of course S2 — S. For 
example, if we wish to divide the ninety terms of series {/) into seven 
consecutive groups of an equal nund)er of terms each, the number of 
terms in a group will be -Y-=12|. The sum of the terms in the first 
group will be composed of the twelve terms for the ages 10 to 21 inclu- 
sive, together with so much of tlie term for the age 22 as corresponds 
to the fractional interval n=^j. The three terms for the ages 21, 22, and 
23 are— 

Si=. 07530, 8.= . 08445, S,= . 07104 

and formula (39) gives for that part of Ss which belongs to the first 
group the value S=.58095, and the sum of the terms in the first group 
is tlicrefore 0.42804. The jjortion S^ — S = .0975U belongs to the second 
group. After the sums of the terms in all tlie other groups have been 
formed in the same way, the etpiation of a graduated series of the sixth 
order can be obtained by means of formuhii (E), just as when «i is a 
whole number. The accuracy of this iast part of the work can l)e tested 
by the condition that the sum of all the terms in the graduated series 
must be precisely equal to the sum of all the terms in the original 
series (/). 

* This foriimlu can p.Iko 1)o -writtuu — 



s^^-^(s. + 8.+«A,-l=:i!:A,) 



where Aj and Az are the Guitc difl'crence.s of the series Si, 8;, S3. 



310 METHODS OF INTERPOLATION. 

We have remarked tliat wbeu a series is graduated by means of 
formulas sucb as (A), (B), (C), &c., tbe accuracy attained is greatest at 
tbe middle of tbe series and least at its extremities. Tbe question tben 
arises, wbetber tbe errors cannot be more equally distributed tbrougb- 
out tbe whole series by making tbe number of terms in a group smaller 
at the extremities and increasing up to tbe middle, instead of having 
tbe number tbe same for all tbe groups. When any i)articular law of 
increase is adopted, there will be no dilBculty in finding corresponding 
formulas similar to (A), (B), &c., by which to compute tbe values of the 
constants. For the results of some recent investigations by Tchebitcbeff 
w'ith regard to the best arrangement of tbe data in making ordinary 
interpolations, not from groups, but from single terms or ordinates, see 
the Traite dc Calciil Differentiel of J. Bertrand, pages 512 to 521. These 
naturally lead to tbe supposition that when tbe method of groups is 
used, the best representation of a given series by another of algebraic 
form will be obtained by regarding the whole interval which the series 
occupies on tbe axis of X as being divided, not into equal portions, but 
into portions which are the projections upon it of equal divisions of a 
semicircle drawn upon that interval as a diameter, the number of these 
divisions being made equal to the number of groups assumed. Of 
course the number of terms in each grou[) will in general be fractional. 
For a series of the second order, the numbers of terms in the thi'ee 
assumed groups will be — 

,=»3=p^ri_cos|^=iN 

H2 = XcOS^=JiSr 

where N denotes tbe whole number of terms in tbe series, so that ^N is 
tbe radius of the semicircle. In equation (1), 

S=w[A+B.r+C(^+ iV^2)j 
we substitute for n its three values Wi, ^2, and n-i in succession, and for a; 
tbe three corresponding values — 

07=— flS", x=0, a'=|]Sr 

thus obtaining the three equations of condition — 

S:=iX(A-fBN+J30K2) 

S2=iN(A+J^CN^) 

S3=iN(A+fBN+f^CN'^) 
These determine A, B, and C; and arranging the original equation 
according to the powers of ic, we have tbe fornuila — 

A=^[7S2-(Si+S3)] 



Wi: 



.B=l« 






METHODS OF INTERPOLATION. 311 

111 the same way we can find the vahies of four, five, &c., coustants iu 
the general forinuhi (12). For a series of the third order, tlie numbers 
of terms iu the four groups are — 



=n, = -L^(\-cos^^=i{2- V-r 



?j2=w3=^]sr cos 4-=lN -v/u 

and the distances from the origin to the middle points of the groups are 

When these values are substituted in formula (8), the constants reduce to — 

A=^[(2 ^2-l)(S2+S3)-(Si+S4)J^ 

B=4[3(S3-S,)-(S,-Sx)] 
C=^[(Si+S,)-(^/l>-l)(S,+ S3)] 

3>=^[(S4-Si)-(S3-S,)] 

For a series of the fourth order the numbers of terms in the five groups 
are — 

ni=n,= lls('l - cos A=. 0954915 IvT 
%=W4=iNf^ cos ~ —cos ^ j=iN 
M3=N cos ^=.3090170 N 



and proceeding as in the case of formula (-lO), we find that the constants 
are — 

A=:^[3.777709S3+i(Si+S5)-.411145G(S2+S4)] 
B=i5[13.08S544{S4-S2)-^«-(S5-Si)] 
C=^[55.33375(S2+S4)-71.73251 83-11^(81+85)]) (42) 
r>=^[^^(S5-S:)-G3.28GG8(S4-S2)] 

E = ^[S3+(Sl + S5)-(S,+ S4)J 

"We might go on in the same way to find formulas for constructing series 
of still higher orders. It will be noticed that in all these cases, in the 
expression for the final constant, the sums Si, S2, &c., have the same 
coefficient when taken without regard to sign, so that all the terms in a 
given series will be of equal weight in determining the coefficient of the 
highest power of x. 



312 METHODS OF INTERPOLATION. 

Nevertheless, such trials as have beeu made with this system of group- 
ing have not resulted favorably for its use in constructing mortality 
tables. The series seems to be rather distorted by it. This is shown 
when we construct by formula (42) a series of the fourth order to repre- 
sent the given series (/). Here we have iSr=90, and consequently — 

7)i=n,=S.5M235, ii,=n,=22^, 7?3=27.81153 

so that the suras of the terms in the five groups, as found by the aid of 
formula (39), are — 

Si= 3.G3932 83= 68.3G19 

82=17.60021 84=337.0553 

85=297.960 
the five constants are found to be — 

A= 1.919514 € = .008277894 

B= .1673728 D = .0001512150 

E=.0000006G35611 
and the equation of the graduated series stands — 

^=1.920204+ ,1674106 x+ .008278226 x^-\- .0001512150 x^ 
+ .0000006635611 a;* 

If the values — J, +^, +f, &c., are assigned to x, the resulting values 
of w are the terms in the graduated series for the ages 54, 55, 5G, &c. The 
sum of all the terms in the series is equal to the sum of all the terms in 
(/), as it should be. But it does not afford a good representation of (/), 
especially in the first half. It begins at the age 10 with the value 
.14024, goes on increasing up to the age 27, where it has a maxiuuim 
of .81152, then diminishes up to the age 36, where it has a mini- 
mum of .77662, then increases to the close, having the value 41.690 at 
the age 99. 

On the other hand, if we construct by formula (C) the equation of a 
simihn- series from five consecutive groups of eighteen terms each, the 
sums of the terms in the groups are — 

81= 9.82520 83= 39.94320 

8, =16.89333 84=154.96600 

85=502,98900 
the five constants are — 

A=2.023103 €=.007188222 

B= .1433032 D=.0001722763 

E =.000001434104 

and the equation of the graduated series is — 

« =2.023702+ .1433463 x + .007188939 .t^+ .0001722763 x^ 
+ .000001434104 x-^ 

This represents (/) with a considerable approach to accuracy, commenc- 
ing at the age 10 with the value .32319, increasing continuously tliere- 
after, and terminating at the age 99 with the value 43.443. This exam- 



METHODS OF INTEEPOLATION. 313 

pie seems to indicate that so far as has yet been ascertained, tlie most 
advantageous mode of grouping is to make the groups consecutive and 
composed of an equal number of terms each; a system which has, 
besides, the merit of greater simplicity.* 
The algebraic and entire function — 

2/=A+Bx-+C^+&c. 

is of course not the only one which it is possible to employ for the purpose 
of graduating a given irregular series. If we take any other continuous 
function — 

2/=^(A,B,C, T,x) 

then, as before, the integral — 



S 



HA, B, C, T,x)>lv 



will express the sum S of the terms in any group in the graduated series 
by means of the number w of terms which that group contains, the 
abscissa x of its middle point, and the constants A, B, C, . . . T. 
By assuming in the given series as many grou])S as there are constants, 
and giving to S, «, and x their numerical values taken from these several 
groups, we shall have as many equations of condition as there are con- 
stants to be determined; and if we can perform the operations necessary 
for finding the numerical values of the constants from these equations, 
then the equation of the graduated series can be easily formed, and the 
series itself can be constructed therefrom. This series will not have any 
one of its orders of differences constant, but it will be a graduated 
series nevertbeless, and the arithmetical means of the terms in the cor- 
responding groups in it will be severally equal to those in the original 
series. It will, no doubt, sometimes be possible to lind in this way a 
transcendental equation which will express a given series more advan- 
tageously than an algebraic equation could do. 

We may here notice a peculiarity of the circular function — 

2/=A + Bsin(%^')+Ccos(^^^)+Dsin2(=^) 

-fEcos2^?|^^VFsin3(^'''VGcos:^(^-''V&c. 

in which N denotes the number of terms in the circular period, or the 
length of the period measured on the axis of X, so that if the values x', 
.t'+N", A'-fliN^, &c., are successively assigned to x, the value of y will 
remain unchanged. The arithmetical mean of any n terms taken in a 
group, and also the mean value of the ordinate within any interval n, 
will be — 



,^ s 1 r^+in 

M=-=- / ydj 



*Tliis may bts a too hasty conclusion. Other trials have since shown that (4i)), (41), 
and (4-i) do suiuetimes, and perhaps generally, give the best results. 



314 METHODS OF INTERPOLATION, 

and consequently— 

M=A+^^ sin -^[Bsin( -^ )+Ccos( ^' )] 

[Dsin2(^)+Ecos2(^)] 
[Fsin 3 (%-)+G cos 3 ("^)] +&c. 



N . 27:11 

-^ — sin -xr 
2-n N 



N . 3t77? 
"o — sin -^,- 



The expressions for S and M are tbus identical in form with the expres- 
sion for y, the constants B and C, D and E, P and G, &c., being merely 
multiplied, in the expression for M, by the known factors — 

/N . TTwN / N . 2nn\ / N . 3rw\ „ 

I — sin ^ ), ( -^ — sm -^r,- J, ( n — sin -^r^ i, &c. 

This property has already been discovered, and utilized in forming the 
equations of curves representing annual variations of temperature, the 
observed monthly means being taken as data.* (See the Edinburgh Neic 
PhilosopMcal Journal for July, 1801, and the American Journal of Sci- 
ences and Arts for January and September, 1863. )t The quantity M is 
there regarded as the mean value of the infinite number of ordinates, or 
" instantaneous temperatures," which fall within the interval «, and not 
as the arithmetical mean of a finite number n of terms taken in a group. 
In general, to obtain an expression for the sum S of the terms in a 
group, it is not necessary that any integration should be performed. 
Since the form of the function ^ is arbitrary, it follows that the form of 

/ ydx is arbitrary also, and may be assumed at pleasure. ])enoting by 
f{x) any continuous function of one variable, let us substitute in the 
place of the variable first iP+^ and then a--— ^, and let the difference 
between the two results be — 

7/=/(^+i)-/(;r-i) . . . (43) 
Let values in arithmetical progression, whose constant difference is 
unity, be successively' assigned to x in the above expression. In the 

series formed by the resulting values of « let any group of n terms be 

. ' i . 

* For thft purposes of our preseut motliod, it will be most couveuient to write — 
y=A+^ I B. siu (|^) + C, cos(|~^) } +| { B. sin ^Qf) 

+ C.cos2(^^^ |+'J:|B3.sin -('^-) + C3Cos3^Y') ] + ^^''^ 
Then, after integrating, we .shall have— 

S=A« + sin (^;){B.,sin (^^) + C.oos (|^) } 

+ -.2(^)|B.sin2(f) + C.cos.(|^)} 

+ sin C^J { 1-3 sin :? ^~^'^ + C3 cos :^(~|"') } + &c. 

For other fornnilas, see Ajipendix IV. • 

t These articles are by J. 1). Everett. 



METHODS OP^ INTERPOLATION. 315 

considered, aud let a be tbe value of x correspouding to the first term ; 
tUeu the sum of the terms in the gi-oup is — 

s=^i«+j)-/i(«-i)-h/i«+§)-%+i)-K/i:«+f)^\«+t) 
+ +/("+«-*)-/(«+«-§) 

which cancels at once to — 

S=/(a+n-^)-/(«-i) 

Now, if x' be the value of x correspoiidiug" to the middle of the group, 

we have — 

iv'=a + ^{n — l) 
aud cousequeutly — 

a=x'—hi-[-i 

so that the expression for S reduces to — 

^=Jlx'+hi)-f{x'-hi) . . . (44) 
We can conceive that, by varying the form of the function / aud the 
values of the constants which it contains, the series of values of u cau 
be made to approximate more or less closely to any given series of equi- 
distant numbers which follow some general Law-. Hence, to graduate 
such a given series, we have only to assume a function f{x) of suitable 
form, aud substituting in it first x-]-hi and then x — hi in place of the 
variable x, the difference between the two results will express the sum 
S of the terms in any group in the graduated series b^^ means of the 
number n of terms which that group contains, the abscissa ic? of the mid- 
dle point of the group referred to an assumed origin of coordinates, and 
the constants which are involved in the function f{x). In the case of 
any single group the values of n aud x are known, and the value of S 
being taken equal to the sum of the terms in the corresponding grouj) 
in the given series, we shall have an equation of condition containing 
only the unknown constants aud numerical quantities. By assuming 
as many groups as there are constants, we obtain a number of equations 
just sufficient to determine the values of the constants. Substituting 
these values in formula (43), we obtain the equation which expresses 
the empirical law of the given series, and from which the graduated one 
may be constructed. The arithmetical means of the terms in the 
assumed groups in the graduated series will be severally equal to those 
of the terms in the corresponding groups in the given one. 

If we assume more groups than there are constants, there will result 
a number of equations of condition greater than the number of con- 
stants to be determined. The values of the constants can then be found 
by the method of least squares. In this way we may expect, in certain 
cases, to increase a little the degree of general accuracy with which the 
graduated series represents the given one, without at the same time 
increasing the number of constants and raising the degree of the equa- 
tion. But of course the arithmetical means of the terms in the cor- 
responding groups in the two series will now be only approximately 



316 METHODS OF INTERPOLATION. 

equal to each other, and the operations of finding and verifying the 
equation of the graduated series will become much more laborious. If 
we do not know beforehand what form the function ought to have, the 
most effectual means of increasing the accuracy of representation will 
be to increase the number of constants equally with the number of 
groups assumed. For instance, it is probable that a series of the sixth 
order, obtained either by the first or the third method, will represent an 
approximately adjusted series, such as (/) in Table II, more accurately 
than any series of the fourth order, whether obtained with or without 
the aid of the principle of least squares, can possibly do. 

The method of least squares can of course be used independently, for 
the purpose of graduating an irregular series of numbers. But every 
term will furnish one equation of condition, so that the number of equa- 
tions will be as great as the whole number of terms in the series, and 
if this number is large the amount of labor required to find and verify 
the values of the constants becomes very considerable, while the method 
cannot be expected to have any advantage over the method of interpo- 
lation by groups, as regards the general accuracy of the result, except 
in cases where the assumed function is capable of expressing the true 
law of the natural phenomenon, or of approximating to it so closely that 
the errors resulting from the difference in the form of the function will 
be everywhere small enough to be neglected in comparison with the 
errors of observation. Applied to an algebraic and entire function, the 
general etfect of the method of least squares will be to increase a little 
the accuracy of representation at the exti'emities of the scries, at the 
cost of increased errors in the remaining portion. To illustrate this by 
an example, let us compare two equations, taken of the second degree 
for the sake of simplicity, each of them representing the first six terms 
of series (A), the first equation being obtained by the method of groups 
and the second by the method of least squares. In the three couvsecu- 
tive grouj)s of two terms each the sums are — 

Si=.83107, S2=.79G80, S3=.8^473 

and since «i=2, formula (A) gives for the equation of the new series — 

w=.30717+.0()17075 X+.00512G2 x^ 
If we assign to x the values — f, — f, — |, &c., in succession, the result- 
ing values of u are the terms in the new series, as follows : 
«i =.42494, «3=.397G0, «5=.4112G 

«2=.40G14, «4=.31)1)3(), «6=.'4334S 

"Wlien these are compared with the original values in series (/<), their 
difterences or errors, taken without regard to sign, are found to be — 
.001 7G, .00101, .00157 

.00177, .00100, .00158 

The sum of the squares of these errors is .0000132. 

!Next, we form six e<iuations of condition of.the second degree from 



METHODS OF INTERPOLATION. 317 

the first six terms iu series (/<), and find tliat by the method of least 
squares the equation of the new series is — 

« =.39710+. 0015743 .r+. 0051468 x" 

This gives for the terms iu the new series — 

«i=.42533, «3=.397G0, '?^5=.41104 

«3=.40G32, «4=.39918, W6=.43321 

the errors are — 

.00137, .00101, .00179 

.00195, .00112, .00131 

and the sum of the squares of the errors is .0000129, which is a mini- 
mum. Comparing these results with the ones obtained by the method 
of groups, we see that nothing has really been gained in accuracy by 
employing the method of least squares, since the maximum error has 
been increased by it from .00177 to 00195. Besides, the method of 
groups has a great advautage in the simplicity and brevity of the cal- 
culations required.* 

The sum S of the terms in any group can be expressed in still another 
form b}^ means of a series. When /(.r± in) is expanded according to 
the j)owers of hi^ it becomes — 

f{x:^ i n) =f{x) ^f'{x) 0^ + lf"{x) Qy ± ^^'"{x) (^) ' 

+2:^-^"(^"Kl)'=^ ^^^"- 

where /'(.r), /"(a-), &c., are the successive differential coefficients of /(j?). 
Consequently we have — 

^=f{x-\-^n)-f{x-hn) 



y/"H^-)Q)%&c.] 



.(45) 



^2.3.4.5.6 

This series will terminate \f f{x) is algebraic and entire. To illustrate 
its application, let us assume — 

f'{,x)=A^^x+Cx' 
then the other derivatives are — 

/"(x-)=B+2C.» 
f"'{x)=2G 
while f'^{x), /""{x), &c,, are zero. We have accordingly — 

=?i[A+Bx+C(.i'2+ j-L n-)J 

* There is still another method of iuterpolation, devise*] by Cauchy, which can be 
used iu cases of this kind. It is, however, more laljorions than the method hero pro- 
posed, and trials which have been made indicate! that it does not secure any greater 
accuracy. For some account of it, see the American Journal of Science for July, 1862, 
and LionviUeg Journal, vol, 18, page 299. 



318 METHODS OF INTERPOLATION. 

wliicb is identical with formula (1). It will bo found tbat the general 
formula (11) can be obtained in this way more easily than in any other. 
The particular feature of the first method of adjustment, that it makes 
the arithmetical means of the terms in the corEespouding assumed 
groups in the new series precisely equal to those in the original one, is 
also characteristic of a method which has sometimes been employed in 
solving equations of condition. (See the Calads Pratiques Appliques mix 
Sciences d' Observation, by MM. Babiuet and Housel, page 81.) If the 
law of a series is to be rei)resented by an equation of the form — 
y=A. + B<p{x)+C'i'{x) + &G., 

where <p{x), y'{x), &c., do not contain any constants to be determined, 
then there will subsist between any given terms or ordinates 2/1, 2/21 ^37 
&c., and the corresponding abscissas Xi, X2, X3, &c., the following equa- 
tions of condition : 

2/i=A+B^(^i) + C'/'(.ri) + &c. 

y2=A+B<f{x2) + Cii'{x2) + &c. 
y2=A+B<p{X3)-^Cip{X3) + &c. 
&c. &c. 

Let us suppose for example that there are only three constants, A, B, 
and C, and that the number of terms in the given series is anj^ greater 
number, for instance six. Then to reduce the six equations of condition 
to only three, we may add them together in pairs or groups of two, and, 
denoting the sums of the terms in the three groups by Si, S2, S3, we shall 
have — 

Si=2A+B[^(a;,) + ^(.r2)] + C[v'(^i) + </'(^2)] 

S2=2A + B[^(j!^3) + f(*4)] + C[./'(.^3)+V^(^4)] 

S,=2A+B[<f{x,) + <p{x,)\ + C[iiix,)^il'{Xe)] 

Here there are only as many equations as there are constants to be de- 
termined, and since Si, S^, S3, and Xi, Xz, &c., are known from the origi- 
nal series, Ave can obtain the numerical values of the three constants. 
Let these be A', B', and 0' 5 then the equation of the graduated 

series is — 

7/=A'+BV(.«) + C'v(^) 

and when the values a-i, .r2, .T3, &c., are successively assigned to the vari- 
able in this equation, the resulting values of y will be the terms of the 
graduated series, and the arithmetical means of the terms in the assumed 
groups will be the same in it as in the original series. This will always 
be the case, without regard to the number of terms in the series, or to 
the number of constants and groups to be assumed, or to the extent or 
position of the groups. It is not even necessary that the terms grouped 
together sliould be consecutive, nor that the abs(!issas Xi, X2, x^, &c., 
should be in arithmetical progression. 

This method, however, labors under certain disadvantages when com- 
pared with the one which we have proposed. The computations it in- 
volves are uuich more laborious, especially when the number of con- 



METHODS OF INTERPOLATION. 319 

slants or tlie number of terms iu the series is large ; it does not give any- 
general expression like (12) or (44) for the sum S of any n terms taken 
in a group, and it does not permit the use of groups composed of a frac- 
tional number of terms. 

ADJUSTMENT OP A DOUBLE SERIES. 

By methods entirely analogous to those which have been applied to 
functions of one variable, we can proceed to graduate an irregular dou- 
ble series or table of values of a function of two variables. The table 
is supposed to be arranged in the usual rectangular form, the successive 
values of each variable being equidistant. Tbe intervals between any 
tw^o such values, however, are not necessarily the same for both varia- 
bles. The algebraic equation — 

is the equation of a curved surface. The rectangular table being sup- 
posed to be situated in the plane of X Y, with its sides i>arallel to the 
axes of X and Y, and its middle point coinciding with the origin of co- 
ordinates, let a series of equidistant vertical planes be drawn parallel 
to the i>lane of Z Y, and another series of planes iu like manner parallel 
to the plane of Z X, so that the intersections of these planes with the 
plane of X Y shall form the divisions of the given table. Each of these 
divisions is the base of a solid which is limited at the sides by the ver- 
tical planes and at the top by the curved surface. Every such solid 
may be regarded as representing the corresponding tabulated value of 
the function, and the sides of the bases are taken as unity, but the units 
lying in the directions of x and y are not necessarily equal to each 
other. If we assume a group of adjacent divisions of the table, situated 
so as to form a rectangle whose sides, parallel to the axes of X and Y, 
consist each of m and n units respectively, then the solid included be- 
tween this rectangular base, its limiting vertical planes, and the curved 
surface, will be rej^resented by the integral — 



' dy I zdx 

y'—in tJx'-im 



where x' and y' are the coordinates of the middle point of the rectan- 
gular base. Performing the integrations indicated, and omitting the 
accents from x' and y', we have — 

B=mn[A-\-Bx-\-Cy-{-B{.v'+-^\m^)-^F4y^ + j\n^) + Fxy-]-&c.] . . . (46) 

This solid is evidently the sum of the solids which belong to the 
several divisions of the assumed groui), so that the formula expresses 
the sum S of the terms iu any rectangular group in the table by means 
of the numbers m and n of terms contained in each one of tlie sides of 
the group lying parallel to the axes of X and Y respectively, the coordi- 
nates X and y of the middle point of the group, and the constants A, B, 
Q, &c. For any group assumed we know the numerical values of S, m, 



320 



METHODS OF INTERPOLATION. 



«, X, and y, so that every such group furnishes an equation of condition 
which, besides the constants A, B, C, &c., contains only numerical 
quantities. By assuming as many groups as there are constants, we 
shall always be able to tind numerical values for the constants, and sub- 
stituting them in formula (40), and nmking — 

m = l, 7i=l, S=w 

•we shall have an equation of the form — 

u=A' + B'x-\-C'y+D'j;'~-\-Wf+F'xy+&c. 

which will be the equation of the graduated table, and from which that 
table can be constructed by assigning to x and y the proper series of 
values differing from each other by unity, so that they shall represent 
in succession the coordinates of the middle point of each division of 
the table. 

We can also make an approximate adjustment of a double series by 
formulas analogous to those which we have already found under the 
second method for adjusting an ordinary series. For exami^le, any nine 

adjacent terms i<i, ti2, th, th being grouped in a rectangle with three 

c' h' a' 



Wg 


«'6 


«3 


«8 


Ur, 


«2 


W7 


Ui 


«1 



X 



terms on each side, as in the figure, let it be required to find a formula 
by which to adjust the value of the middle term u^. Let us suppose that 
the ecpiation of the curved surface is — 

;?=A+B.r+C2/-f D.r2+E7/2 

then F aiul all the succeeding constants disappear, and formula (40) 
becomes — 

Now, in the rectangle na' we have — 

S=?<i+2f2+«3, m=l, ?<=3, a'=l, y=0 
so that (47) reduces to — 

«i + »,+ n3=3(A+B + ifD+fE) 

So, too, in the rectangle hh' we have — 

S=j/4 + «5+?^G. w = l, w=3, .37=0, y=0 



METHODS OF INTERPOLATION. 321 

and (47) becomes — 

W4 + ?/5+W6=3(A+-rVD + fE) 

Likewise the rectaugle cc' gives — 

W7+«84-"9=3(A-B+ifD + fE) 
Again, for the rectangle adf we have — 

S=?^i + »2 + W4-f ?<5+W7+?^3, w=3, «=2, a'=0, y=\ 
and (47) reduces to — 

In like manner the rectangle dc' gives — 

«2+W3+«5+"G+"8+»9=r>(A-iC + aD+j^E) 

We have thus obtained five equations by wliich to determine the five 
constants A, B, C, D, E, in terms of the tal)ulated values Wi, Mjj ^'3, &c. 
Now, in the middle one of the nine divisions we have — 

S=«<5, wi=l, «=1, j==0, y=o 

and formula (47) becomes — 

^/5=A+J^D+tVE 
Substituting in this the values of the constants A, D, and E, we arrive 
at the result — 

M5=-1-[5W5 + 2(«2+?^4+''g+"8) — (''l + W3 + «7+"9)] • • (48) 

and this is the adjustment formula required. Its accuracy can easily be 
tested by trial with any table constructed from an equation of the form — 

%= A' + B'.r+ C'y + D'.i'2_^E'/ 
the adjusted value being in this case the same as the original one. In- 
deed, we shall find that the result is exact, even when the table has been 
constructed from a complete equation of the third degree. 

Again, to adjust the value of a term occupying the middle of one side 
of the assumed rectangle, as Ui^ for instance, we have — 

S=W2j m=l, M=l, a;=l, y=^ 

and consequently — 

?<o=A+B + if D+J^E 

Substituting the values of A, B, D, and E, we obtain the adjustment 
formula — 

W2 = i[5«2 + 2(?<l + «3 + ?/5 + W8)-(?^4+«c4-«7 + W9)] • • (49) 

In a similar way the adjusted value of a term like Mi, occujiying one 
corner of the assumed rectangle, is found to be — 

Wl=M3Wl+2(M2+«3 + W4 + «7)-(W5 + «C + W8 + «9)] . . (50) 

By one or other of the three formulas here given, the value of any term 
in an irregular table can be approximately adjusted, and, as in the case of 
an ordinary series, the weight of the term to be adjusted may be in- 
creased or diminished at pleasure. 
21s 71 



322 



METHODS OF INTEHPOLATION. 



APPENDIX I. 

IMPROVED ADJUSTMENT FORMULAS. 

We have seen that in (IG) and similar formulas used for making pre- 
paratory adjustments by the second method, thelocal weight of the middle 
term can be increased or diminished if desired, and that, when the for- 
mula includes more than five terras, the weights of other terms besides 
the middle one can also be made to vary. We have employed this pro- 
lierty in assigning to the several terms, weights increasing in arithmeti- 
cal progression, from the extreme terms to the middle one, as in formula 
(20). But further investigation has shown that this arrangement of the 
weights, although it gives formulas which are very simple and easy of 
application, is not the best one in theory. To determine what the best 
arrangement is, we must consider that when one of these formulas is ap- 
plied at any part of a series, all those terms which are not included by 
the formula have the weight zero ; that as the adjustment progresses, 
when a term is first included by the formula its weight is negative, it then 
becomes positive, attains its maximum when the term occupies the mid- 
dle position, then diminishes till it becomes negative again, and finally 
resumes the weight zero when the term is no longer included by the for- 
mula. To make this transition as unbroken and contiiuious as possible, 
it is evident that if we regard the weights as ordinates to a curve, the 
form of this curve should be as shown in the annexed figure, for a formula 
including seven terms whose 
positions 1, 2, 3, . . . 7, 
are laid ofl* equidistantly on 
the axis of X. The curve is 
symmetrical with respect to 
the middle ordinate or axis of 
Y, and is tangent to the axis 
of X at the points and 8, 

which are the positions of the two nearest terms not included by the 
formula. Such a curve has four points of inflexion, so that if it is of 
algebraic form, it must be of a degree not lower than the sixth. As- 
suming, then, that the series of Aveights from to 8 inclusive is of the 
sixth order, and that it has maxima at the points and 8, these two 
conditions will sufliceto determine the two arbitrary numbers 1c and h' 
in the foruuila — 




^{S-Jc){u,+nc)-5{u,+ u,)] 

which holds good, as has been shown, for any seven consecutive terms 
in a series of the third or any lower order. Since the nine weights — 

0, _5, (8-7>-), (13-f4A-), (13+4 A- -f A-'), (13-4-4 A-), (8-A;), -5, 



METHODS OF INTERPOLATION. 323 

are to form a series of the sixth order, their seventh differences will be 
zero, giving the equation — 

_5_7(8_7.:) + 21-(13 + 4/0-35(13+47.-+A:') 

+35(13+4A;)-21(8-fc)-35=0 

Also, since there is to be a maximum at the initial term 0, the differ- 
ences of the series of weights must satisfy the condition — 

giving the equation — 

1800 + 460(8-A;)-472(134-4A:)+225(13-4-4A-+7/)=0 

We have then two equations, from which the numbers 1c and k' are as- 
certained to be — 

7^ 2 03 6 7./ fi679 

SO that the adjustment formula becomes — 

«4=55yo4[-3104M4+1042;j(M.3 + "5)+3000(??3 + ?^G)-3185(^^:+»,)] . (52) 

Here the nine weights — 

0, -3185, 3060, 1G425, 23104, 1G425, 30G0, -3185, 

form a series of the sixth order, and if their successive orders of differ- 
ences are taken they will be found to satisfy the equation (51). The 
following formulas, comprising five, nine, and eleven terms respectively, 
possess properties similar to the above : 

^5=58iT3[19375«5+1569G(«4+«c) + 7050(«3-fW7) 

-704(«24-«8)-2349(«i+«9)] 

% =¥TyTmr2oT2T8 [^^•^*^719420G «64- 51593437700(«5+ W7) 

■+-3131529GG40(«/,4-l-?<8)+82778GGG85(?f3+«9) 
-G224G58450(«2+Wio)-60704355G9(«i+ifii)] 

It will be more convenient in practice to have the weights expressed by 
decimals, as follows : 

W3=.5GGlG«3+-28923(«2+«4)-.07231(?Aj + ??r.) • • (o3) 
W4=.41476?<4+.2948G(H3+«5) + .05494(?^3-f?fo)-.0571S(?/i-f^^) . . (54) 

W5=.329GGw5-f .2G706(w4+«G) + .l-00G(w3-f«7) } ^_ 
-.01198(«2+Wa)-.03997(«i-f«9) ^'^''''^^ 

W6=.2740G «e + .23737(«5+«7) + .14408(?^4+7^8) + .03809(«3+?^c,) ^ ^ 
-.02864(%-f?/io)-.02793(wi+«ii) ^^''"^'^ 

Without attempting solutions in whole numbers, we can proceed in a 



324 METHODS OF INTERPOLATION. 

similar way to find decimal weights for thirteen or more terms, as in 
the following' cases : 

W7=.23466«:+.21137(W6+W8) + .14934(H5+W9) + .07003(w4+«io) ) 
+ .00105(M3+Mn)-.03005(«2+Mi2)-.01997(?fi+Wi3) ) 

^8= .20522 Us + .18953(2*7+ «9) + .14051 (^6+ "lo) + .08755(«5 + Wii) ) 

+ .02875(W4+Mi2)-.01321(W3+Mi3)-.02709(W2+Wi4) > (58) 
-.01465(Mi+Wi5) ) 

In each of these formulas the sum of all the weights, taken for each 
term separately, is unity, as it should be. Owing to the rejection of 
decimals after the fifth figure, this condition would not always be ex- 
actly satisfied, and consequently the fifth figure, as above given, has 
been made to differ in some cases from its nearest value, to the extent 
of a single unit of the fifth place. Actual trials have shown that a 
better graduation can be made by these formulas than by any of the 
similar ones previously given, and it is possible that, in some cases, a 
table of mortality may be graduated sufficiently by this means alone, 
without recourse to the first or third methods of adjustment. 

It will often be sufficient for practical purposes to use only three places 
of decimals ; and in making an adjustment of a given series by any 
single formula, we can facilitate the multiplications by preparing in 
advance a table showing the product of each of the decimal weights by 
each of the nine digits. 

There is another method, allied to the preceding, by which the 
weights may be determined when more than five terms are to be included 
in a formula. Supposing the number of terms to be seven, we may 
assume that their seven weights, together with the two nearest zero 
weights, are ordinates to a curve of the eighth degree, since such a 
curve can be made to pass through nine given points. We have, as 
before, the condition that this curve shall be tangent to the axis of X 
at the points and 8 ; and to make its continuity with the axis at those 
points as complete as possible, we may give it a contact of the second 
order, so that its first and second differential coefficients shall both be- 
come zero at the points and 8. We have thus the two conditions — 

'^^~'2 + 3"~4 + 5^~¥+T"'8-" 
. ..,11J4 5J5. 137 Je 7 J7 , 363 ds_f. 

^^-^='+-12"- ir+T8(r— lo +-5Gr-" 

By means of these we obtain the two numbers — 
3797C ,, 135087 

*'-li5r7 05ir 

and the adjustment formula is found to be— 

W4=ijJTTo[371712w4+236625(w3+?'r,) + 1^100(J<,+««)-32585(Wi + »7)J 



METHODS OF INTERPOLATION. 325 

With decimal weights it becomes — 

W4=.4o998?(4+.29281(»3+W5) + .01752(«.+i/6)-.04032(»i+«,) 

In a simikir manner we might proceed to And formulas including more 
than seven terms. With nine terms we should assume acurve of the tenth 
degree, with the three conditions that its first, second, and third dif- 
ferential coefficients should all become zero at the positions of the two 
nearest zero weights. 

This method of determining the weights may seem to be theoretically 
better than the previous one, but the labor required in obtaining the 
formulas is very considerably increased, especially when nine or more 
terms are to be included by them, and the practical advantages of the 
method, if it has any, must be small.* According to the theory of 
probability of errors, if we let e denote the probable error of each single 
term in a given series, then the probable error of a term adjusted by 
the above formula will be — 

eo=e V.459982-f2(.2928P4-.017522-f .040322] =.62204 ^ 

But if the adjustment were made by formula (54), the probable error 
would be only — 

eo=e 7.41470^+ 2{.29480-'+. 05494-'+. 05718^) =.59874 £ 

which indicates that (54) is slightly superior in the accuracy of its 
results. This, however, is not conclusive as regards smoothness of ad- 
justment. If we imagine two series, such that the probable error of a 
single term is smaller in the first one than in the second, it is still pos- 
sible that the second may be the more perfectly graduated of the two, 
since its errors may follow a continuous sequence or curve, while the 
errors of the first may be arranged irregularly or fortuitously, so as to 
follow a broken line. The comparative regularity of the graduation of 
two series obtained by using different adjustment formulas will be best 
ascertained by comparing their corresponding orders of differences. 

The fourth difference is most convenient for this purpose, and may be 
obtained directly for any five consecutive terms by means of the for- 
mula — 

Ai = G ^3 — 4(«24-«4)+(Wi+?<5) 

Having thus computed all the fourth differences for each of the two 
series, we can add them together in each case without regard to sign, 
and the series which gives the smaller sum may be regarded as the 
better graduated of the two. This becomes evident when we consider 
that a curve of the third degree, since it admits a point of inflexion, 
may be taken to represent ai)proximately a limited portion of any 
regular curve ; and as all !he formulas of the second method of adjust- 
ment give accurate results for a series of the third or any lower order, 
their use tends to bring the adjusted series into such a form that any 

* Subsequent trials Lave sliowu that it has none. 



326 METHODS OF INTERPOLATION. 

small number of consecutive terms in it will be approximately of an 
order not higher than the third. Hence, if any series, such as a table 
of mortality, is thus adjusted, its fourth differences will be small, and 
positive and negative values will bo equally probable. 

In the case of formulas like (22), which hold good for a series of the 
fifth or any lower order, we may fix the local weights of the terms by 
these two conditions, that the whole series of weights, including the 
two nearest zero weights, should be of the eighth order, and that it 
should have minima at the beginning and end, so as to satisfy the equa- 
tion — 

J,-$+4'- -t=o 

Jo o 

Thus we obtain the formula — 

«4=^3j1^^[7008m4+307o(m3+M5)-1470(»2+"g) + 245(»i+«,)] 
which, with decimal weights, is — 
«4=.61922«4+.28559(«3+«5)-.11424(?/,+«6) + .01004(«i+«,) . . . (59)* 

To find formulas for adjusting the first two and last two terms of a 
series, we may proceed as follows : Assuming that five terms, Wi, i<2, «3, 
«4, %, form a series of the second order approximately, and taking the 
equation — 

with the origin of coordinates at the middle term u^, we have the five 
equations of condition — 

«i=A-2B+4C 

1/3= A 

W4=A+B+C 

«5=A+2B+4C 

Combining these by the rule of least squares, we find that the values 
of the three constants are — 

A = 3V[17w3+12(«2+«4)-3(«i+K:,)] 

B=j-V[2(W5-%) + («4-«2)] 

C=tL[2(Wi+M5)-2w3-(??2+M4)] 

and consequently we have — 

Wi=J5(31mi+9»2— 3«3-5m4+3w5) . . . (CO) 

i/2=JL(9«i+13w2+12j/3+Gyf4-5i/5) • • • (01) 

which can be used with advantage in place of (25) and (26), if the series 



* This formula may be used wbeu the law of a giveu series varies so rapidly that five 
consecutive terms cannot be regarded as formiug a series of an order not higher than 
the third. 



METHODS OF INTERPOLATION. 327 

to be adJHsted is not a very irregular one. We can proceed in a simi- 
lar way to obtain formulas for adjusting the middle term in any group 
of tive, seven, nine, or more terms, as follows :* 

«3=3V[1^ "3+12(W2+«4)-3(?/l+H,)] 

In all these cases, the weights form a series of the second order. The 
probable errors are less than those given by other similar formulas ; for 
instance, the probable error of the adjusted value of u^ is only — 



— ri77:\^c- 



But it has been found on trial that, as regards smoothness of adjust- 
ment, these formulas are decidedly inferior to (53), (54), &c., or even to 
(17), (19), &c. This is owing to the great want of continuity between 
the weights of the formula and the zero weights. If we apjjly Cauchy's 
method to the same series of terms as above, w^e get — 

^'3 = To[4(W2+«3+«0 — (^'l + «5)J 

«*4=3V[11(«3 + «'4 + W:.) + 4(«2 + Wg)-3(«i + «7)] 
%=2t[^("3+W4+«5+"g + W7) — (Wl + «2 + «8 + «9)] 
^'6=2^T['il(«3+W4+ +«9)— 14(Mi + «2 + «10 + '»<n)] 

All these, except the second, are special cases under our formula (13). 
The first one is the same as (14). 

ADDITIONAL FORMULAS UNDER THE FIRST METHOD. 

The simplest case of all has been omitted ; it is that in which the 
graduated series is of the first order, so that the expression for the sum 
of any n terms in a group is — 

Assuming any two groups composed of Ui and ih terms respectively, 
with the origin of coordinates midway between the middle points of the 
groups, and denoting by a the distance from the origin to either of these 
points, we have for the values of the constants — 






(G- 



* lu like manner, it can be shown that formulas (48), (40), and (50) are in accord- 
ance with the principle of least squares. 



328 METHODS OF INTERPOLATION. 

If the assumed groups are consecutive and contain Wi terms eacli, the* 
constants will be — 

(63) 

This properly commences not only the series of formulas (A), (B), (C), 
&(i., but also the series (40), (41), (42), &g. 

Again, when formula (12) is extended so as to include nine constants, 
it becomes — 
S=«[A+ tV C n'-h^\B n'+jh^ n'+2ioT^ n'-{-(B+\D n'-\- j\¥ n' 

>(64) 
+ yV H n')x^ + (E+fGw2+|.I «V + (F " ~ ' ' 



F 4- ^ H if)j(^ i 



If we assume nine consecutive groups, containing Wx terms each, the 
values of the constants are found to be — 

A=:.^^3^,^^^^^^^J11702134S5+125884(S3+S.)+1225(S,+S9) 

-80021G(S4+Sc)-17000(S2+S8)] 
B=^j^gj|^^2[574G86(S6-S4)+33878(S8-S2)-170422(S:-S3) 

-3229(S9-Si)] 
C =iT^JoUn?f ^^^-^^^(^^+ ^"^ + 4448^(^2+ Ss) -3260110 S5 



-323260(83+ S7) -3229(Si+ Sg)] 

S3) + 141(S9-Si) 

-1406(88-82)] 



D=^^3^j|^J6134(S:-S3) + 141(S9-8i)-8614(86-S4) 



E=^jy^^^5[15002 85+3908(S3+S,) + 47(Si+S9)-10840(84+SG) 

-616(82+83)] 
r=jy^J-,[82(SG-S4)+26(S8-82)-74(S:-S3)-3(So-Si)] 

G=j=T7^.[752(84+Sc) + 80(82+88)-970S5-340(S3+8,) 

-7(8i+8„)] 

H=^f^^^^8[14(8;-S3) + (S9-S0-14(Sc-S4)-6(88-S2)] 

I=j(^3^9[70S5+28(83+8,) + (8, + So)-56(84+8c) 
-8(82+ S«)j 



H^) 



METHODS OF INTERPOLATION. dz\) 

This formula may be used advantageously in constructing a graduated 
rate of mortality similar to series (h) in Table II. The simplest mode of 
procedure will be to obtain the equation of the graduated series of the 

form — 

u=A' + B'jc+OU^-\- +1'*^ 

and to compute by logarithms first the values of B'.r for all the ages, 
then the values ofC'j?^ in like manner, and so on, and finally to take the 
aggregate of the values at each age. The accuracy of the work will be 
tested by the condition that the sums of the terms in the corresponding 
groups in the graduated series must be severally equal to those in the 
given one. It should be also mentioned that, to insure accuracy, the 
multiplications within the brackets in formula (G), such, for instance, as 
that of S5 by its coefficient 11702134, &c., ought to be performed arith- 
metically and not by logarithms. 

INTERPOLATION BY MEANS OF AN EXPONENTIAL FUNCTION. 

When values in arithmetical progression are assigned to x in the ex- 
ponential equation — 

i/=Z</5^+o^"+fZo^'+ &c. 

the resulting values of y will be terms in a recurring series, whose order 
is denoted by the number of constants ft, y, (5, &c. The above formula 
has sometimes been used for the i>iirpose of ordinary interpolation, and 
represents a curve which, under certain conditions, can be made to pass 
through any number of given points whose ordinates 2/0? Vu 2/2? &c., are 
equidistant. The whole number of constants h, c, d, /?, ;-, S, «&c., included 
by the formula, must be equal to the number of points given. If this 
is an odd number, we must write — 

y=a-^h l3''-{-c y''-\-d S"-^ &c. 

For the most general method of determining the values of the constants 
in any given case, see articles by Prony, in Vols. I and II of the Journal 
de VJ^cole Poli/techniquc. We may here remark that if there are not 
more than five constants, their values can easily be obtained in the ordi- 
nary way, first eliminating a, h, and c from the equations of condition, 
,then finding the values of /5 and y, and afterward finding those of a, &, 
and c. 

Now let us write the general equation under the form — 

2/=A+(Blog'/S)/5'+(ClogV)/''+(Dlog'(J)o^+&c. . . (G5) 

where log' denotes the Naperian logarithm. Integrating ydx between 
the limits x—^n and x-\-^n, we get — 

S=A n+B(/Si«— i?-i")/5a;+C(^i"— /'-i")r''4-D('J*" — (J-i'i)o^+ &c. (66) 

which is identical in form with the expression for y, so far as the abscissa 
X is concerned. Consequently, if we assume a series of groups contain- 



330 METHODS OF INTERPOLATION. 

iii^ Ml terms each, and equidistant, so that h may denote the constant 
interval between their middle points, and if we put A'=Awi, and — 

and phice the origin of coordinates at the middle of the left-hand group, 
then the sums of the terms in the several groups will be — 

So=A'+B'+C'+D'+&c. 

Si=A'+B'/5*+CV''+B'«^"+&c. 

S2=A'+B';S2*+Cy"+D'r52''+&c. 

&c. &c. 

and in any given case, assuming as many groups as there are constants 
to be determined, we can find the values of the constants from these 
equations of condition, just as in ordinary interpolation from ordinates. 
In accordance with the general method referred to, we proceed as fol- 
lows : If the number of constants is an even one, for instance, six, the 
groups forming a recurring series of the third order, whose scale of rela- 
tion is — Ao, — Ai, — Ao, we shall have the three equations — 

A0S0+ AiSi-f A2S2+ 83=0 
AoSi+AiS2-fA2S3+S4=0 

AoS2+AiS3+A2S4+S5 = 

These enable us to find the numerical values of Aq, Aj, A2, and we substi- 
tute them in the equation of relation — 

z^+A2Z^+AiZ+Ao=0 

This numerical equation of the third degree being solved, its turee roots 
will be the values of the three constants /S*, y'', 5\ Substituting them 
in the three equations of condition — 

So=B'+C'+D' 
Si=B'/S*+CV4-D'<5'^ 

S2=B'/s2*+cy"+D'(52* 

we can find the values of B', C, and D', and consequently those of B, 0, 
and D. Having thus determined all the constants in the equation — 

we are enabled to interpolate the sum S of any 7i terms taken in a group, 
or any single term, and to form a recurring series of the third order, 
such that the arithmetical means of the terms in the six assumed groups 
will be the same in it as in the given series. The equation of the grad- 
uated series will be of the form — 

n='B"i3''+C'Y+'D"d' 

When the assumed groups are consecutive, w© shall have 7i=7h. The 



METHODS OF INTERPOLATION. 331 

three roots of the equation of relation must in all cases be positive ; if 
any of them are negative, the inference will be tliat the given series 
cannot, for purposes of interijolation, be represented by an equation of 
the proposed form. 

If the number of constants is odd, for instance, seven, we shall find the 
Bcale of relation from the four equations — 

Ao(So-A') + Ai(Si-AO + Ao(S2-A') + (S3-AO=0 

Ao(Si-A')+Ai(S3-AO+A2(S3-A') + (S,-A')=0 

Ao(S.-A') + Ai(S3-A') + A2(S4-A') + (S3-AO=0 

Ao(S3-A') + Ai(S4-A') + A,(S5-A') + (Sc-AO=0 

first eliminating- A' by subtracting each equation from the succeeding 
one. The equation of relation will be of the same degree as in the pre- 
vious case, and the values of A', B', C, and D' will be found from the 
four equations of condition — 

8o=A'+B'-fC'+D' 

Si=A'+B'/3''+CV''+B'r?* 

S2=A'+B';'j2''-f-C'r"+D'o2* 
S3=A'+B'/53''+CV"'+D'o3/. 

If the number of coustants and of groups assumed were eight or nine, 
the mode of procedure would be precisely similar to the above. The 
scale of relation would contain four terms, and the four roots of the 
equation of relation — 

c^+ A3 5^+ A2 z^'+Ay cr+ Ao=0 
would be the values of the four constants /J*, 7-", o", e*. 
In the simiilest case of all, we have the curve — 

whose equidistant ordinates are in geometrical progression. If we 
assume — 

y=A+(Blog'/^)/3' 

it is easy to obtain the following: 



0__ / S2— S A A 

Si — So 



B= 



(07) 



S=Ah+b(,5*"-9-*"^,3^ 
This can often be used with advantage in i)lace of (3) or any similar 



332 METHODS OF INTERPOLATION. 

formula, in making a distribution of population or deaths at the earliest 
and latest ages of life, where the values vary so rapidly as to give the 
series an exponential rather than a parabolic torm. 

But when our object is merely to graduate an irregular series whose 
terms are all separately given, the easiest way to put it in an exponen- 
tial form will be to take the common logarithms of all the terms, as has 
been already suggested, and adjust them by the second and first 
methods, and then take the numbers corresponding to the graduated 
logarithms. The equation of the final series will be of the form 

the simplest case of which — 
represents a geometrical progression. 



APPENDIX 11. 

Among the various methods which can be used for fixing the values 
of the local weights in adjustment formulas, the following one is perhapa 
deserving of especial notice : 

Assuming that the true law of a given series of numbers may be 
regarded as algebraic and of an order not higher than the third, and 
that the irregularities in the series are of the nature of accidental errors 
or deviations from this true law, and that deviations of a given amount 
are as likely to occur in one term as in another, let it be required to 
find that system of weights which will render the probable value of the 
fourth diflerences of the adjusted series, taken without regard to sign, a 
minimum. 

Considering, in the first place, the most general form of an adjustment 
formula comprising only five terms, which may be written — 

we have for the values of five consecutive terms in the adjusted series — 

u'i=zj—-^[1cu^+4:{u3+Ur,)-{n2+u^)] 

U'e=jrT^[1cUG+4:{U5-\-th)-{Ui+Ua)] 



METHODS OF INTERPOLATION. 333 

The fourth difference of these terms is — 

and consequently — 

-\.S{U2+ns)-{Ui+i(s)\ 

If we suppose that the series Ui, «3, ^(3, &c., is of an order not higher than 
the third, the adjusted series u'3, u\, n'^, &c., will be of the same order, 
so that its fourth dititerences will be zero, and both members of the above 
equation will be equal to zero. But if each of the terms Wi, 112, &c., is 
liable to an accidental deviation or error, whose probable amount is 
denoted by s, then the probable value of J4, taken ^vithout regard to 
Bign, will be — 

(^4)=^7(«^--34)'+2[(47c-32f+(A:-22)2+82+l] 
which reduces to — 

Eegardiug (J4) as a fnnctiou of the variable k, we have the equation — 

dk 

from which to find that value of A; which makes (J^) a minimum. This 
is A-=-UJ- ; and substituting it in (G8), we obtain — 

«3=Tk[lll«3+56(%+W4)-14(wi+W5)] . . (69) 

which is thfe adjustment formula sought. 

To find a similar one including seven terms, we may take the most 
general form as used in obtaining (52), or, what amounts to the same 
thing, by proceeding as in the demonstration of formula (20), we can get — 

^*=/7qri(r^i:35[(''+4''^-i^)"''+('i'^*-i^)("3+^<5) 

Since k' affects only the weight of the middle term, we may, for the sake 
of brevity, denote that weight by k' alone, and so write — 

The expression for the fourth difference of the adjusted series then is — 

+ (^•'-22 /v-+100)(«4+W8)-(45-8 k){i(,+na) 
+ (10-Z;)(«2+Mio)-(Wi+Wn)J 



334 METHODS OF INTERPOLATION. 

and when each term is supposed to be affected by a probable error or 
deviation e, the probable value of J4 becomes — 

+ (A;'-22/j+100y^+(45-8Af+(10-/.f+l] 
which reduces to — 



W= j.> ,Qj._.,fy J'iOk' 2+4302 />;'^-1008A-/i'+4004 k'-S58i)(i /c+75476 

Eegardiiig (J4) as a function of the two independent variables fc and k', 
we have the two equations — ^ 

dk ~~ ' dk'~ 

giving the values A-=:fi and A:'=^^, which render (J4) a minimum. 
Substituting these in (70), we get the adjustment formula sought— 

«, = 3-^v^[469«4+324(«3+«5) + 54(«2+«6)-60(«i+'»,)] . . (71) 

It is found that in each of the formulas (09) and (71), the whole series 
of weights, taken together with the eight nearest zero weights, consti- 
tutes a series of the tenth order. By means of this property, we can 
construct with greater fiicility the following similar formulas : 



«5 = 83W[-S84^'5 + 22G8(»4 + Wg) + 91S(K3+"7)-132(«2+»8) 

-297(^(i+«9)] 

«C = ^5l94[7308l<6 + 61G0(W5+«7) + 3410(»4+»8) + GG0(«3+"9 

— 71'){ir,+nio)—512{Ui-\-i(n)] , 



[(72) 
(73) 



„,= _j__[48G36wT+427C8(«6+«,)+27918(«5+«9) + 108G8(«4+«io)r 

-1287(«3+«ii)-5148(?/2+?/i,)-28G0(«,+ «i3)] V 

«8=W45o[827<54w84-74844(»,+«y)+54054(?/„+Wio)+2S028(«,4-«„) ) „ 
+ 5733(»4+«i2)-6552(W3+«i3)— ^092(?<,+ Wi4)-3G72(?/i+?fi5)] ) 

If the smallnoss of the fourth differences of the adjusted series is to be 
taken as the ultimate and only test of its regularity of curvature, it will 
follow that these formulas ought to be used in preference to (53), (54), 
(55), &c., from M'hich, indeed, tliey do not differ greatly, as can be seen 
on comparing their decimal weights. The probable errors of the ad- 
lusted terms, however, are increased a little, and the weights follow a 
curve which is not precisely tangent to the line of the zero weights. 

At all events, the same principles can be usefully employed in fixing 
the weight of the middle term in ibrmula (48), so as to give greater reg- 
ularity to the adjustment of a double series. By a process precisely 
analogous to that by which (G9) was obtained, it can be proved that in 
order to render the probable value of the yomplete second difference 



METHODS OF INTEKPOLATION. 335 

J2 + 2 of the adjusted double series a miuimum, the weight of the middle 
term must be increased from 5 to 8^, so that — 

will be the formula required. 



APPENDIX III. 

Since the present memoir was written, the author has met with a 
small work by Schiaparelli, designed with especial reference to the 
reduction of meteorological observations, and entitled Sul modo di rica- 
vare la vera cspressionc delle leggi della natnra dalle curve cmpirklie; Mi- 
lan, 18G7. That work, it is proper to acknowledge, an.ticipates to a 
certain extent the second method of adjustment here given. It con- 
tains, in section 45, a development of the general relation, or system of 
conditions, wliich exists between the numerical coeflicients or weights, 
in formulas for adjusting the middle one of any group of an odd num- 
ber of terms in a series. The mode of demonstration is quite diflerent 
from the one here followed, and its author does not obtain any of the 
special adjustment formulas wliich have here been constructed and re- 
commended, such as (17), (19), &c., (53), (54), &c., or (G9), (71), «&c. He 
gives instead, on page 17, that special case under our formula (13) which 
arises when we take — 

W2 = Wl, ffi = ^(Mi — 1) 

and also gives, on page 47, the formulas which render the probable error 
of the adjusted term a minimum. We have seen that these last can be 
derived from equations of condition by the method of least squares; that 
their weights form series of the second order; and that the adjustments 
which tliey make are not nearly so smooth and regular as those made by 
formulas whose weights follow a curve which is continuous with the 
line of the zero weights. The method of least squares presupposes that 
the assumed algebraic equation, of a degree not higher than the third, 
can accurately' represent the true law of the natural phenomenon 
throughout the whole group of ternis included by the formula ; and, more- 
over, to give full scope to the method, the number of terms included 
ought to be large. These conditions will be but imperfectly fulfilled in 
practice, and since the true law of the natural series is supposed to be 
continuous and not irregular or broken, it appears probable, or at least 
quite possible, that the system of weights which makes the smoothest 
adjustment will also make the most accurate one. 

The method which Schiaparelli gives on pages 23 to 30 of his work, 
for obtaining the values of the constants in empirical equations of alge- 
braic or circular form when the arithmetical means of the terms in cer- 
tain groups are taken as data, is not equivalent to the first method here 
proposed. It requires for completeness two sets of formulas, one to be 



336 METHODS OF INTERPOLATION. 

used when the number of terms grouped together is odd, and the other 
■when it is even ; it regards the terms as being geometrically represented 
by ordinates, instead of areas, and does not permit the use of groups 
composed of a fractional number of terms, and it is not generally ai^pli- 
cable to functions of other forms than those specified. 



APPENDIX IV. 

ADDITIONAL FORMULAS FOR INTERPOLATION WITH A CIRCULAR 

FUNCTION. 



Denoting by N the whole number of terms in the circular period, let 

2 r 

US Avrite '^ = 0: then assuming the curve — 

2/=A+if4Bi sin Or^) + Cicos {xO)\-\-^e[B2Hm2{xe)-\-C2COs2{xO)\ ) 

+ |^[B3sin3(.r<y) + C3Cos3(.r^)] + &c. y ^ 

we shall have for the sum of the terms in any group — 

S= Am + sin i («^y)[Bi sin {xo)-]-Gi cos (xo)] ^ 

+ sin ^ {nO)\B2 sin 2 {xO)-\-C2 cos 2 (xO)] \ (78) 

+ sin ^ {71 0)IB3 sin 3 {xO)+C3 cos 3 (*-<?)]4-&e. ) 

From this we can derive formulas for computing the values of the con- 
staats A, Bi, Ci, B2, C2, &c., just as formulas (A), (B), (C), &c., were 
derived from the algebraic formula (11) ; or, otherwise, we can determine 
the constants by treating the equations of condition in the manner 
peculiar to the method of least s(]nares. The results are the same in 
either case. When the N terms are divided into three consecutive 
groups of equal extent, we shall have — 

A=i(Si+S,+S3) ^ 

[a) 



Bi=f(S,-Si) 

Ci=-^- sin G0o[2S2-(Si+S3)] 



s 



With four groups, we get — 



A = ^(81+82+83+84) 

Bi=^[(S3-S2) + (S,-S,)])(*) 
Ci=i[(S2+S3)-(Si+84)] 

B2 = i[(S3-S2)-(S4-Sl)] 

We omit the formulas for five, seven, nine, &c., groups, which are not 
required in practice, the common use of monthly or hourly data in 



METHODS OF INTERPOLATION. 



337 



meteorology uiakiug it convenient to have the nnniber of gronps a 
divisor of 24. With six groups, the constants are — 



A=^(Si+S.4-S3+S,+S5+So) 

Ci=| sin GOO[(S3+S4)-(«i+!So)] 

B3=i[(S4-S3)-(So-S,)] 

C2=f sin G{)o[(S,+ S,) + (Si+S,)-2(S,+S.)J' 

B3 = l|Bi-(S5-S2)] 



(^) 



With eight groni)s — 



A=^(S,+S,+ 



+ ^8 



B,=i(2 sin 45o+l)[(S,-S,,) + (S,-a)l+i{(S.-S,) + (^^.-S.)]i 
C,=i(2 sin 45o + l)f(S,+ S,)_(S, + .S,)] + i|(S3+S,)-(a+S,)]' 
B,=i[(S,-S4) + (S«-S3)-(S,— S,)-(S,-S,)] ) (.7) 

0,=i[(S,+ S,) + (S, + S3)-(S,+ SJ-(S,+S,)] 
B3=B,- sin 45o[(S«-S3) + (S;-S,)] 

c,=c,+i[(a+s,)+(S,+s,)-(S3+s,)-(s,+s,)] 



+ S,,) 



\ 



And witli twelve gronps — 

A=^-(s.+a+ 

B,=i(«iii OOo+l)[(S,_SJ + (S,o-S3)]+i(sm 60o+i)[(S,-S, 

+ («u-S.)]+M(Sr-So) + (S,,-S.)] 
C,=i(sin G0o+l)[(S,3+S,-)-(S.+S,)]+i(>sin GOo+^)[(S,+ a 

-(a+Sn)]+M(S.+s,)-(«3+s,,)]- 

B,=i[2(S,-S,) + (S;-So) + (So-«.)-2'(S„-S,)-(S.„-S3) 

-(S..-S,)J 
C,=i sin G(P[(S,+ S,-) + (S.+S,,)-(S,+ S,)-(S3+S,„)] 

B3=M(S;-s.)+(Ss-y,)+(Sn-a)+(S„-so-(S,-«,) . 

-(«10-S3)] /('') 

C3=M(S«+S;) + (S3+S,o) + (S.+S„)-(.S,+S«)-(S,+ S,) 

-(«l+s,,)] 

B,=i[(S,-S,)+(S,o-S3)-(S,-S,)-(S.,-S0] 
0;=i sin G0o[(Se+S,-) + (S,+ S,) + (S3+S.„) + (S, + S,,) 

-2(S,+S,)-2(a+Sn)j 
B, = (S,-S,) + (S«-S,) + (S„-a) + (S,,-S0-B,-4B3 
C,= (S,+ S;)-(S, + S„)-0,-2 03 

Bo=TV[(S,-S,0 + (S,-S,) + (Sn-S,)-(Ss-S,)-(S„-S3) 
-(S.2-S1)] 

To illustrate the use of these formulas by an example, let us tali;e the 
series employed in illustrating Cauchy's method of interpolation in the 
22 S 71 



O OQ 



METHODS OF INTERPOLATION. 



United States Coast Survey Eeport for 18G0, page 392. Coluuii) (1) of 
the following table sbows the terms of the given series corresponding 
to each hour of the day : 



Hour. 


(1) 


(2) 


Hour. 


(1) 


(-3) 


Hour. 


(1) 


(•■2) 





.19 


.187 


8 


—.15 


—.104 


16 


-.10 


— . 080 


1 


.17 


.•176 


9 


.01 


.000 


17 


— 18 


—.173 





.or. 


.114 


10 


.10 


.109 


18 


—.26 


—.220 


3 


.04 


.019 


11 


.19 


.192 


19 


—.19 


—.211 


4 


—.10 


— . ()H2 


12 


.29 


.233 


20 


-.12 


— . 143 


5 


—.14 


—.101 


l.T 


.19 


.214 


21 


.01 


—.050 





—.19 


— . 196 


14 


.13 


.14-2 


22 


.04 


.057 


7 


—.14 


—.175 


15 


.08 


.035 


23 


.12 


.144 



It is required to represent this series by a formula containing five con- 
stants. We will not make any ])reli!ninary adjustment by the second 
method, as that is not indispensable to our system of interpolation by 
groups, although it is generally desirable, as, indeed, it would be in a 
less degree with Cauchy's method, Avhich also depends on the summa- 
tion of irregular series of quantities within certain intervals. Dividing 
our 24 given terms into six groups of equal extent, we get — 

S,= .45 • S,=.15 S,= -.73 

S.= — .57 S^=.G7 Sg= .05 

Computing by formula {c) the values of the first five constants, and 
substituting them in (78), we have — 

S=.0008+ sin ^nO)[— .0667 sin (^^) + .1848 cos {xO)] 
+ sin {nO)[.:mu sin 2(.r ^y) + .7544 cos 2{x0)] 

which we transform into — 

S=.0008+.1965 sin ^{nO) sin (xO+W^^oV) 
+ .8144 sin {nd) sin {2x0+(u^o:y) 

This expresses the sum S of any group of n terms in the graduated 
series, the abscissa of the middle point of the group being x, and each 
term being supposed to occupy, on the axis of X, a space equal to 

2t 
unity. The angle 6* is vm:=15o. If we further take «=1 and S=», we 

obtain the equation of the graduated series — 

«=.001 + .026 sin {xO-\-Um<^r>i')-\-.211 sin {2x0-\-61Oo3') 

Ymm this the values in column (2) are computed. The sums of the 
terms in its six groups are, of course, not precisely ecpial to those in 
column (1). To make them so,, it would be necessary to add to the 
equation the term containing the sixth constant B3. This term is — 

+.018 sin 3(x0) 
The origin of co-ordinates is at the middle of the series. If we wish to 



METHODS OF INTERPOLATION. 339 

transfer it to the first term, we put u:-— 11^ iu the place of x, and thus 

u= .001+ .026 sin {x0+297O21')-\- .211 sin {2x0-^82053') 
wliich does not differ greatly from the equations obtained by (.'auchy's 
metliod and the method of least squares, as given in tlie Coast Survey 
Report. 

Similar results would be obtained by dividing the given series into 
eight or twelve groups, and computing the values of the first five con- 
stants from fornuilas (d) or (e). These results would probably be a little 
more accurate than the preceding, being in accordance with the prin- 
ciple of least squares, as already stated. 

In cases where the data for interpolation are the mean values Mi, M.,, 
M3, «&c., of the ordinate, taken within intervals formed by equal divisions 
of the circular i)eriod N, our formulae {a), (/>), (c), &c., will still be ap- 
plicable. For instance, with three intervals, we shall have — 
S,=pI,N, S,=pI,N, S;,=iM3X 

Formula (a) then gives the values of the three constants, and since 
S=M«, formula (78) becomes — 

M=A+- sin ^(n())[B^ sin (.r^)-f C, cos (xO)] 

it " 

which expresses the mean value M of the ordinate within any interval n. 
To illustrate this, let us take the corrected mean temperatures at New 
Haven (Transactions of the Connecticut Academy, Vol. I, p. 233) for 
intervals of four months : 

January to April M,=3io. 35 Fahr. 

May to August 3L=.G6o. 84 

September to December Mj^^iOo. 15 

To obtain from these an ecjuation for the series of daily means, we have 
]Sr=3G5i, and consequently' — 

Si =4182, S,=8138, S,=5019 

Formula («) then gives — 

A==49.11, Bi=958, Ci=2492 

and (78) gives — 

M=49.1l4-2G7(!f ^|-^ sin ^nO) sin (.t'^^+OSOoS') 

This equation expresses the mean temperature of any interval of n 
days. The angle is — 

If wc also take n=l, the equation of daily means is found to be — 

M=49. 11+22. 91 sin (.r ^y+08058') 
The origin of co-ordinates is at the middle of the year. 



REPORT 0\ THE TRANSACTIONS OF THE SOCIETY OF PHYSICS AND NATURAL 
HISTORY, OF GENEVA, FROM JUNE, IStO, TO JUNE, ISIl. 



By ai. IIenki de Sausscke, President. 



[Trauslatcd for the Siuitlisouian lustitntiou.] 

The year which has just passed has been marked by events which 
have left but little time for the peaceful occupations of science. The 
war burst upon us almost at the moment that our scientific year com- 
menced, and we can hardly yet say that it has terminated. If Switzer- 
land has not been oppressed by belligerent armies, she has, neverthe- 
less, been obliged to play an active part in the duties which her 
neutrality imposes upon her, and there are few present who during 
this sad period have not been in one way or another diverted from their 
regular occupations. Several members of the soi»'.iety have not hesitated 
to make the sacrifice of their precious time to works of charity which 
the evils of war have rendered every day more indispensable ; in fact 
no one has been able to escape the preoccupations occasioned by the 
important events which have transpired in a neighboring theater of our 
frontier. / 

On this account the convocation of the scientific congress, announced 
for the second half of the year 1870, has been countermanded. The 
Helvetic Society of Natural Sciences, convoked at Fraueufeld for tlie 
month of August, has not been able to assemble, and a geological con- 
gress, organized at Geneva under tlie superintendence of MM. Favre, 
father and son, and of M. F. J. Pictet de la .Rive, has been obliged to 
be postponed to some other time. We can therefore scarcely be sur- 
prised that our society should itself be somewhat affected by the exte- 
rior agitations, and that the meetings should have been less frequented 
than in ordinary times. 

If, however, the catastrophes to which I have alluded, have some- 
what diminished the activity of our members, they have procured us, 
by a kind of compensation, the inappreciable advantage of having seated 
among us a number of foreign savants, who, exiled from their homes 
through the vicissitudes of war, have found in the shelter of our neu- 
trality a refuge both peaceful and hospitable. In attending our meet- 
ings, and in favoring us with their communications, they have cast upon 
our reunions a luster of which our records will preserve the remembrance. 
These savants were M. M. Regnault, of the Institute, and M. P. Cap, of 
the Academy of Medicine at Paris ; M. le Professor Fee, of Strasburg ; 



342 SOCIETY OF PHYSICS AND NATURAL HISTORY, OF GENEVA. 

and M. Gueiiee, of Chateaudun. The assiduity with which these gentle- 
men have associated themselves with us in our labors, the desire which 
they have manifested to continue with us in relations in which the interest 
of the society has been so largely increased, has induced usto confer upon 
them the title of honorary members; and your president before resign- 
ing his place to his successor had the pleasure of expressing to them 
the faithful interpretation of our sentiments. 

To the names of the savants whom I have just mentioned, I must add 
those of several gentlemen who have sojourned with us only a short 
time, particularly M. Bigot and M. Duperrey, who have only appeared 
at our meetings at brief intervals. Lastly, we have welcomed in our 
city our emeritus member, M. Dumas, perpetual secretary of the Acad- 
emy of Sciences, whom we delight to claim as one of ourselves ; for 
none of you can forget that it was at Geneva that M. Dumas published 
his lirst works, and that he stands to-day among the elders of our soci- 
ety of physics. 

It is very seldom, gentlemen, that a year passes without our being 
called upon to mourn the departure of one of our colleagues. To-day 
we have to lament the death of a highly esteemed savant, who was 
admitted into our ranks only a few short months ago. Dr. Augustus 
AValler was born, in 1816, at Elverton, near Ferusham, in the county of 
Kent, England. lie pursued the study of medicine in France, and 
received in 1840 a diploma of doctor of medicine from the faculty of 
Paris. He then returned to England and established himself at Ken- 
sington, where he practiced medicine for several years. But the ordi- 
nary occupation of the i)hysician was not sufficient to satisfy his inves- 
tigating spirit, and he always found time to devote himself to scientific 
researches in the domain of anatomy and physiology. His principal 
investigations were directed to the nervous system, which did not fail 
to lead to important discoveries, and some well-known experiments 
which he made in London upon the degeneracy which the nerves and 
the nervous center undergo, obtained ior him the title of member of 
the Koyal Society, and the grand prize of ])hysiology from tlie Academy 
of Sciences at Paris. Not finding in London all the facilities necessary 
to his researches, he resolved to change his residence, and did not hesi- 
tate to sacrifice to his studies a i)ractice which had become extensive. 
He removed with his family to Bonn, where be had full leisure to con- 
tinue his i)hysiological and microscopical investigations upon the ner- 
vous system. 

The researches which he made in physiology, either alone or in col- 
laboration with Professor Budge, entitled him to more honorable dis- 
tinction on the part of the Academy of Sciences at Paris. He obtained 
for the second tinu^ the great prize of ])hysiology on account of his dis- 
coveries relative to the functions of the great sympathetic nerve, and to 
the influence of the spinal marrow upon the pupil. From Bonn, Waller 
repaired to Paris, and after having laborejl lor several years in the 



SOCIETY OF PHYSICS AND NATURAL HISTORY, OF GENEVA. 343 

laboratory of Flonreus, he was called to Birmiiigliam to occui)y a chair 
of physiology and a position as physician to the hospital of that city. 
' He even tljen felt the first symptoms of the diseases which subsequently 
carried him off, and was obliged to give up some of his labors on account 
of his failing' health. He next removed to Switzerland, and after having 
lived in the Canton Vaud for several years, he came in l.SGSto reside in 
Geneva. 

Although Waller had been obliged to abandon his regular labors, his 
mind, unusually active and ingenious, could not remain idle, and he 
never entirely ceased to occupy himself with interesting questions in 
physiology and medicine. At Geneva, his health having improved, he 
devoted himself anew to medical practice, to which he was always much 
attached, and his large experience in that line rendered him especially 
eminent. In 18G9 he was received as a member of our society. The 
same year he had the honor of being invited to d(^liver the Crooniau 
lecture to the Royal Society of London, and for that purpose rej)aired 
to England. His health, which appeared to be confirmed, was not 
established. He had suffered several severe attacks of quinsy, a malady 
which suddenly terminated his existence on the 18th of September, 1870, 
at the age of fifty-five years. 

It would take too much time to analyze all the labors of our lamented 
associate; we shall limit ourselves to a short summary of those which 
have excited the most interest iu the scientific world, particularly his 
work upon the degeneracy of the nerves. The nerves which are 
distributed through different parts of the body are, we know, composed 
of diiferent fibers, intermixed with each other — those which call into 
action motive-power, and those which convey impressions of sensibility. 
At their origin, that is to say at their iioint of emergence, from the 
spinal marrow, the motor nervous fibers are separated from the sensitive 
nervous fibers ; the former constituting the anterior roots and the Intter 
the posterior. After having demonstrated by experiment that when a 
complex nerve is cut, the outer segment, suddenly arrested, withers and 
degenerates, while the central segment, remaining iu communication 
with the nervous center, continues unchanged, Waller studied the 
degeneration of the nerves taken at their origin. Beginning at the 
nervous roots, he proved that the nervous center, which maintains 
intact the nervous fibers of the anterior roots, is seated iu the spinal 
marrow itself, while the nervous center, which contiimes intact the 
nervous fibers of the posterior roots, is situated in the intervertebral 
ganglion, united to their posterior roots. It was by means of sec- 
tions of these roots taken at difierent distances, that Waller made 
these important discoveries, the application of which immediately 
occurred to him. The changes which take place in the structure of a 
nerve after the cutting are so evident that the experimenter can avail 
himself of it as a means of tracing the distribution of their fibers in the 
different tissues. It is in this way that he succeeded iu perceiving the 



344 SOCIETY OF PHYSICS AND NATURAL HISTORY, OF GENEVA. 

termiuations or ends of tlie nerves in the tougne, a study which he made 
for the most part upon the tongue of a living frog. This new method 
of investigation in regard to the nervous system, which obtained for 
Waller the prize of physiology from the Academy of Sciences at Paris, 
has been of great service. In order to give a just idea of its merits we 
shall quote the words of Professor Vulpiau, who in his Course of 
Physiology of the Nervous System, describes with care this method, to 
which he proposes to give the name of the Wallerian method. After hav- 
ing given numerous examples from the experiments we have already 
cited, M. Vulpian adds: "To this day we have not deduced from this 
method all the results which it is able to furnish ; but sooner or later 
we will institute some special researches, taking it as our point of de- 
parture, and without doubt we shall discover important and valuable 
truths in regard to anatomical physiology." An important discovery of 
Waller is that of the exudation of the white globules of the blood 
from their vessels. The memoir which he published upon this sub- 
ject in 1846 had been forgotten, when Cohnheim and other microsco- 
pists rediscovered the facts in 18G7, and from them deduced a new 
theory in regard to inflammation. M. Strieker, of Vienna, in an inter- 
esting article which appeared in 18G9, awarded to Waller all the honor 
of the priority of this discovery. We have confined ourselves 
to the analysis of the works of Waller, and for more ample in- 
formation we refer the reader to the list of his publications. It Avill 
suffice to give at least an approximation of the extent of the 
researches of this eminent man's investigations, all of which bear the 
stam]) of true originalit}". 

Waller hud, indeed, a mind essentially ingenious. The experiments 
which he devised, the subsequent operations he employed, the new 
methods lie put in practice, all, to the minutest details, exhibit the char 
acteristics of an eminently inventive genius. He also possessed the very 
valuable trait of never allowing himself to be carried away by hypotheses. 
Whatever oi)inions he advanced, he desired to prove mathematically. 
As long as there remained any doubt on his mind, he would have recourse 
to new experiments and imagine new methods by which it might be 
removed. His talent for exposition was remarkable, as we all know by 
experience in listening to the communications he made to our society. 
In him science has lost a man of rare merit, while Geneva was only too 
happy to include him among her residents. 

Having rendered all due respect to the memory of our lamented col- 
league, I will give a rapid sketch of the labors of the society, in accord- 
ance with the plan adoptetl for the report of each year. 

PHYSICAL SCIENCES. 

It is principally in this domain of science that we have listened 
to the most numerous lectures ; partly because the stranger savants who 
have visited us were principally physicists, partl}^ because of the 



SOCIETY OF PHYSICS AND NATURAL HISTORY^, OF GENEVA. 345 

accidintal absence of our excellent colleague, ^I. E. Claparede, ahvays 
vicli in conununications on other subjects of a character to interest the 
society. Unfortunately the condition of his health this winter causes 
us the greatest anxiety. 

General Dufour has given a summary of the results of the exper- 
iments upon which he has been engaged for some time in regard to the 
relative movement of material points, a question which is of interest to 
general astronomy. 1. In studying the movement of tv»'o stars around 
a supposed fixed point, it is demonstrated by observation that this i)oint 
must be in motion. 2. The curve being plane, and the stars remain- 
ing in the same plane during their translation, it mny therel'ore be con- 
cluded that the stars have all received an impulse resulting in a parallel 
movement. 3. The movement of the apsides proves that the center of 
gravity of the system is displaced, not following a straight line, but de- 
scribing a curved one. 

Professor Emile Plantamour has made this year, as formerly, a 
sojourn among the mountaius, in order to determine the astronomical 
coordinates of the different stations of Switzerland. The Simplon was 
the place he selected for his operations in 1870. The latitude of this 
station, as derived from his observations, is 40° 14' 59", 4, with a pos- 
sible error of a quarter of a second. 

The unusually cold winter which we have experienced has naturally 
attracted the attention of meteorologists, and M. Plantamour, according 
to his custom, has given some results deduced from the compared course 
of the temperature of diffe^-ent years. The months of December and 
January of this winter have shown a mean temperature of 2°. 45. This 
period of the winter is very similar to that of the winter of 18u7-'3S, of 
which the mean temperature was — 2o.3; but the winter of 1829, 
the remembrance of whicli is still traditional throughout the country, 
was colder still, as in December and January, the mean temperature 
was 40.7. 

Colonel E. Gautier has presented frequent communications rela- 
tive to the constitution of the sun. In a i^aper read at the April 
meeting he gave an account of an important memoir from Professor L. 
Eespighi, director of the observatory of the capitol, upon some spectro- 
scopical observations continued for fourteen months, and which have 
been made principally with reference to the protuberances of the edges 
of the sun. The author infers from his observations that the sun must 
have an exterior liquid envelope, compressing the overheated gases 
in its interior. These gases at times force themselves through the 
envelope, and occasion formidable eruptions; after which they disperse 
and combine with the elements of the surface of the sun. In consequence 
of these combinations, obscure points appear which in agglomerating form 
the spots on the disk of the sun. These masses Hoat at the surface of the 
incandescent globe as dross a result arrived at by M. Gautier several 
years ago in trying to re-establish the theory of Gallileo, and of Simon 



346 SOCIETY OF PHYSICS AND NATURAL HISTORY, OF GENEVA. 

Marius. The paper of M. Gautier bas been inserted in the Archives 
of Science 1871, vohiine XLI, page 27. He has continued to keep us 
informed in regard to iiui)ortaut discoveries made in the domain of gen- 
eral astronomy. 

Professor Cellerier presented a paper upon the molecular coustitutiou 
of gas. According to modern hypothesis, gases are composed of mole- 
cules, endowed with a movement of translation in every direction, and 
freed during the major part of the duration of this movement, from all 
mutual action, this action only rev^ealing itself by shocks. Whatever 
be the nature of the latter, their consequences, according to the general 
laws of mechanics, can only be similar to those which are produced by 
the shock of two perfectly elastic bodies. The movement after the 
shock depends either upon the direction of the movement before the 
shock, or, upon fortuitous circumstances, such as the direction of the 
plane of the shock. If we admit tliat, during a certain time, the di- 
rection of this plane is always parallel to one or the other of the 
three rectangular planes, the result must be that the diffusion of the densi- 
ties, in all the masses would occur immediately, contrary to all experience. 
It would be the same for an infinity of other directions of the plane of the 
shock. M. Cellerier has therefore concluded that the theory of gases 
which Chiusius and other physicists have proposed is not absolutely 
admissible, at least under this simple form. This communication has 
given rise to some observations by A. de la Rive, upon the impossi- 
bility of doing without the intervention of ether, in explaining 
the phenomena which the gases present. 

Our compatriot, M. Duperrey, for a number of years professor at 
Paris, has taken advantage of a sojourn at Geneva, to lay before the so- 
ciety some researches which he has undertaken, to find a simple and 
practical relation between the temperature and the maximum tension 
of steam. He has obtained the following result, remarkable for its sim- 
13licij;y, that this tension represented in kilogrammes by square, centi- 
meters, is nearly exactly equal to the fourth power of the temi)erature. 

M. Serra Carpi, a Roman engineer, in i^assing through Geneva, has 
given some details relative to the variation of the mean temperature at dif- 
ferent heights, a subject treated in a i)amphlet, of which he has given 
to the society a copy. Professor Marcet, in a letter addressed from 
London to M. de la Rive, has given an account of the last observations 
of Dr. Carpenter upon the waters of the jNfediterranean. These observa- 
tions were extended to a depth of 3,000 meters. At this depth the 
water is turbulent, and contains a great quantity of dissolved gas. The den- 
sity changes from 10O.27 at the surface, to 10O.20 at 2,000 meters, and to 
10^.28 at 3,000 meters of depth. The denser water rests therefore upon 
water less dense ; this singular fact can be explained by currents, of 
which Dr. Carpenter has without doubt confirmed the existence. 

In the domain of physics, Professor Regnault has presented to the 
society an important comnumication, which occupied an entire meeting. 



SOCIETY OF PHYSICS AND NATURAL HISTORY, OF GENEVA. 347 

This distiuiiuislied acadomiciaii gave his views as to the manner of un- 
derstanding- and studying- meteorology, also as to the best form to be 
adopted for the instruments which are employed in this branch of science. 
He thinks that meteorology should be considered less as a dependence 
of astronomy, than as auxiliary to i)hysiology, since it assists especially 
in determining the isothermal lines, and its principal object is to give 
account of the physical circumstances which favor or retard the develop- 
ment of organized beings. As to the instruments, he is in favor of 
simplifying them in order to render them accessible to the greatest 
number of people. He proposes particularly to attach to barometers 
and thermometers photographical registering apparatus moving by 
clock-work, which will record without trouble the variations of tliese 
instruments and enable us to read them with perfect exactness. Instru- 
ments constructed upon this model would be of great assistance in the 
researches within the domain of physiology, botany, agriculture, etc. 
The phenomena relative to the aurora borealis have been, as in the 
past, the obje(;t of different communications from Professor A, de 
la Hive, who continues to keep the society informed upon this subject. 
The same member has given an account of tlie imi)ortant researcues 
whicli he has made in regard to the rotatory magnetic power of liquids. 
After having devised the apparatus he employed, and the new methods 
he had adoj)ted to avoid as much as possible all sources of error, he has 
studied successively different liquids in order to determine their 
magnetic rotatory i)Ower, such in particular as sulphurous acid, which 
had not previously been submitted to this kind of experiment, different 
mitxures of solutions, and a certain number of isomeric bodies of which 
none i)reseuted the same magneto-rotatory power. The iuiiuence of 
temperature has also been analyzed with care, and it has been to prove 
that it tends to diminish this power, which is evidently due to the man- 
ner in which the particles are grouiied. IM. de la Eive has also presented 
in concert with M. Edward Sarasin, a work which they have made to- 
gether on the action of magnetism upon rarefied gases traversed by 
discharges of electricity. In o[)erating successively u[)on atmospheric air, 
upon carbonic acid gas, and upon hydrogen, these two physicists have 
found that the magnetism produces in the ])ortion of gas directly 
traversed by the discharge an increase of density, and besides an aug- 
mentation or a diminution of resistance to the couductibility according 
as the electrical Jet is directed equatorially or axially between the poles 
of the electro-magnet. These augmentations and dimiiuitions vary with 
each gas. They are nothing in certain positions of thejet with reference to 
the magnet, and are probably due, when they manifest themselves, to 
the perturbation caused by the action of magnetism in the dis])Osition 
which the gaseous particles aii'ect when they pro])agate electricity. 
(These two memoirs are inserted in the archives.) M. L. Soret read a 
memoir upon the polarization of light by water, as studied upon that 
of dilfci-ent lakes, upon sea- water and upon snow-water. He shows thai 



348 SOCIETY OF PHYSICS AND NATURAL HISTORY, OF GENEVA. 

the pbenonienon is more intense when the water is clearest, and that the 
polarization takes place for all parts of the spectrum equally. Dis- 
turbed or muddy waters give no polarization. The same physi(;ist has 
also given an account of some experiments he has made in order to verify 
the results obtained by M. Christiansen and by M. Kundt, upon the ab- 
normal dispersion of the light of bodies of superticial colors. The two 
works which I have mentioned have been published in the Archives of 
Science, and I refer you to them. M. liaoul Pictet has presented a paper 
on the resistance a body experiences in its motion through the air, with a 
uniform velocity. It would be difficult to give an analysis of it in a few 
words. This resistance is expressed by the formula 11 = Kv-, which is 
indicated by calculation, and experimentally verified. 

The same savant has repeated, at the meetings of the society, var- 
ious experiments, having for their object to show the emissive and 
absorbent powers of ice for heat, and the influence which they exercise 
upon its formation and its fusion. In order to prove experimentally 
the radiant power of ice for black heat, M. Pictet has made a piece of 
ice contract rapidly by the action of this radiancy, in immersing it 
at the level of the surface of water at 0°, and in exposing it to the 
air under a serene sky. From another side he has shown that ice is 
almost entirely diathermal for luminous heat, and altogether diathermal 
for black heat. In i^rojecting a ray of luminous heat through a block of 
ice inclosing specks of foreign bodies there is formed around each corpus- 
cle a drop of water, resulting from the absorption of the black heat which 
these bodies radiate under the luminous rays ; and when these foreign 
bodies are sufficiently luimerous the ice is disintegrated through its 
entire^ depth, and is melted. If, on the contrary, a ray of black heat is 
projected upon the block of ice, as this does not penetrate into the sub- 
stance of the ice, it produces a fusion of the superficial stratum only, 
and does not attect the interior parts. 

Professor ^larignac has communicated to us the result of his researches 
upon the specific heat of saline solutions. (Inserted in the Archives, 
vol. XXXIX, page 217.) 

M. Morin read a memoir upon the azotized substances found in the 
embryos of herbivorous animals, and especially in their eggs. 

Our emeritus member, M. Dumas, has laid before the society various 
important questions, which were discussed by the Academy of Sciences 
at Paris during the siege of that capital. The necessity of having re- 
course to balloons for carrying on correspondence led to various improve- 
nu'uts in the art of a'ronautics. It was necessary, on account of economy, 
to construct the balloons of cotton material, and in order to render this 
im])ermeable, a varnish of India rubber was used. But M. Dumas showed 
that India rubber is permeable to gas, and proposed to superimpose on it 
some substances soluble in water, especially gelatine. By superposing 
the two substances, a varnish was obtained impermeable both to gas 
and the moisture of the air. It was also observed that it was best to 



SOCIETY OF PHYSICS AND NATURAL HISTOEY, OF GENEVA. 349 

launch the balloons about 3 or 4 o'clock in the morning-, because at that 
hour they were covered with dew, of which the gradual evaporation 
lightened them during the morning hours, and allowed tbem to maintain 
the same height witliout it being necessary to throw out balhist. Nu- 
merous trials, which seem to have some success, have been made in 
regard to directing baHoons, \mt have not yet been completed. 

The scarcity of food has induced many i)ersons attempt to imitate the 
elements of first necessity, and M. Dumas has read on this subject a me- 
moir in which he proves the im[)ossibility of producing milk artihcially. 
The fabrication of this substance has been Impiently attempted and 
has been practiced upon a great scale, but the artificial milk can never 
take the place of the natural milk, for the latter exhibits an incontestable 
organic structure which cannot be reproduced chemically ; the fat cor- 
puscles are enveloped in a pellicle, which prevents ether from dis- 
solving them. We hnd these globides with their i)ellicle even in the 
milk extracted from the lacteal vessels at the moment when the secre- 
tion of the glands takes place, which i)roves that they have a physio- 
logical origin. M. P. Cap, who we all know has been remarkably assid- 
uous at our meeting's, has read two papers concerning the history of 
chemistry. The numerous historic notices which proceed from the pen 
of this author are so well known to those who follow the progress of 
science, that it is hardly necessary to mention how peculiarly well qual- 
ified he is to treat these subjects. In his memoir upon the discovery of 
oxygen he has proved that this body was in the first place discovered 
by Bayat, a French chemist, fallen unjustly into oblivion, and that the 
work of Priestley and of Scheele is confined to making known the 
properties of oxygen, as well as those of its compounds. But Lavoi- 
sier's eminently generalizing mind gave to this discovery its true import- 
ance, and deduced from it its now recognized relations to the nomen- 
clature and the science of chemical combinations. M. Cap has also 
given an account of the discovery of iodine b}" Bernard Courtois, in 
which he particularly dwells upon the first phases of this discovery, 
and upon the biography of its author. These notices have appeared in 
the Journal of Pharmacy, so it is not necessary for us to speak of them 
further. 

NATURAL SCIENCES. 

Geology. — Professor Alphonse de Candolle has examined the ques- 
tion whether in case the flora which exists should be reduced to a fossil 
state, we would be able to discover any characteristic which would 
determine in a precise manner the geological age of the strata in which 
it occurs. Now, he has proved that there is no such general char- 
acteristic among the i)lianerof]amous plants which are now found at 
the surface of the earth, and it is not probable there exists any among 
the cryptogamous plants. It has probably been the same at all other 
epochs, and consequently the similarity between two geological strata, 



350 SOCIETY OF PHYSICS AND NATURAL HISTORY, OF GENEVA. 

situated in different parts of the earth, does not prove them to be of the 
same age. The term geological epoch, which always implies some dis- 
tinction in the flora and in the fanna, in reference to other ei^ochs, 
is, therefore, not adapted to the scientific signitication for which it 
is intended. The above-mentioned idea is being more and more intro- 
duced into science. 

Professeur D. Colladon has placed before the society some beauti- 
ful photographs, which represent cuttings of tbe earth upon the hill of 
Geneva, executed upon the Tranchees, a hill which is believed to be a 
product of the ancient alluvion of the river Arve. He published in 
1870, in the Archives, (vol. VXXIX, page 199,) an extended notice upoa 
this subject, and also drew attention to the study of the terraces of the 
southern shore of Lake Leman. 

M. Ernest Favre has presented an interesting communication on the 
geology of the mountains of the region southwest of the canton of 
Fribourg, composing the chain of the Nivemont, the Moleson, the 
Yerreaux, and tliat of Saint Cray; he compared the strncture of this 
solid mass with similar formations, which have been observed in the 
Tyrol and in the Carpathes. (This has appeared in the Archives.) 

Finally Professor Thury has measured the thickness of the section 
of the glacier of the Oldenhorn, such as it presents from the lake of 
Eheto. He estimates it at 45 meters, and has counted from 70 to 80 
horizontal strata, each one having a thickness of about 60 decimeters. 

Botany. — Since the works of Darwin have attracted the attention of 
naturalists to the question of the origin of organic species, their desceat 
and their affiliations, the manner of distribution of these species over 
the surface of the globe, which has great interest on the bearing of this 
question, has been studied with more attention than in the past, and is 
becoming every day the object of new and im]^ortant researches. M de 
Candolle has shown that botanists have found in the flora of the 
Fortunate Islands hardly any plant similar to the western coast of 
Africa, while they contain a large number in common with those of 
Europe. This fact would indicate that the islands in question have been 
formerly united to Europe, by a terrestrial communication, while it 
seems to have always remained separated from Africa. It is true we 
are by no means certain of the flora of the high mountains of Maroe, 
which throws some doubt upon the conclusions we would be inclined to 
infer from the above observations. 

Dr. Miiller contributed an article, accompanied with drawings, upon a 
new species of hair discoveredupon two Asiatic plantsofthecombretacious 
family. These hairs have the general appearance of scales or the plates of 
a shield, but instead of exhibiting a disk formed of numerous cells en- 
tirely radial, they are formed of a regular net-work of cells, which is 
only one cell in thickness, like the ordinary' leaf of mosses. Dr. Miiller 
described these curious scales and proposed to give the name of Lepide 
riticuUe. 



SOCIETY OF PHYSICS AND NATURAL HISTORY, OF GENEVA. 351 

Professor Fee, of Strasburg-, read a memoir upon tlie determination 
of plauts mentioned by tbe ancients; in wbicU be shows especially bow 
excessively dilticult it is to arrive at a sufficiently detinite deteimina- 
tion which would enable ns with any dej^ree of accuracy to apply the 
old nomenclature to tbe new. A recent work by M. Uubani, far from 
settling' tbe inherent difficulties of this question onl}' furnished a new 
Ijroof of its complexity. 

ZOOLOGY AND PHYSIOLOGY. 

Among" the strangers who have attended our sessions, Messrs. Guenee 
and Bigot have for several montbs given their time to tlie arrangement 
of the entomological collections of our museum; especially the lirst of 
these gentlemen, who for six montbs has been at work in onr labora- 
tories. Mr. Bigot has classified tbe Dijnera and M. Guenee tbe Lcpi- 
doptcra. As the collections are about to be removed to the new 
academic buildings, where they will be properly exhibited, such a classi- 
fication, by competent men, is of great importance. 

M. Guenee discovered in our cases several new species of I'apiUo and 
allied genera ; also a Bomhicidc, which exhibits a very remarkable 
case of hermaphrodism ; in this the organs of the two sexes, instead of 
being localized, are mingled and distributed tbrough nearly all parts of 
the body. Tbe article on this subject hj M. Guenee will be inserted in 
our memoirs. 

M. Claparede has studied the cysts of a fera sent to him by M. Lunel. 
Tlie muscles of this lish inclosed various cysts, most of which contained 
a liquid greatly resembling milk. In one of them was a cheesy, whitish 
substance, evidently produced by the metamorphosis of a lacteous liquid, 
similar to that in tbe other cysts, but the more fluid elements of which 
had been re-absorbed. Tbe constituent elements of these cysts were 
psorospermies, resembling each other, and composed of a head of len- 
ticular form, and a tail double from its base. With these psorospermies 
there was always found a granular protoplasm, at whose expense tbe 
psorospermies were developed. These facts have been observed before, 
but what was especially remarkable in the fera in question was the 
liresence of other cysts in the mucus of the gills, but with psorosper- 
mies very different, and much smaller, having a diameter of only one- 
fourth to one-tenth of a millimeter. Their abundance gives to the entire 
bronchial apparatus a grayish tint. These psorosphermies were not 
lenticular, but perfectly spherical, and without a tail, each inclosing a 
spherical kernel, very refracting, and some small giains. M. Claparede 
thinks tbere must be a generic connection between tbe small cysts of 
the gills and the large cysts of tbe muscles. However, no observations 
have as yet confirmed this hypothesis. Upon one of tbe arches of the 
gills was a cyst of about a millimeter in size, of which the contour was 
very different from the other gill-cysts, and resembled somewhat those 
of the muscular cysts. These psorospermies are distiugnished from 



352 SOCIETY OF PHYSICS AND NATURAL HISTORY, OF GENEVA. 

those of the large cysts by their shorter tails. However, with a great 
many of them the tail was bifurcated at the end. Prof. Claparede 
also exhibited the platCKS of a uewwork upon the histology of Anne lides, 
and has given some details as to the process he employs for the arrange- 
ment and preservation of his preparations. 

M. Hernjan Fol read before the society a long and important memoir 
npoii the Appendiculaires, a family belonging to the class of Tuniciers 
It confirms the near relation that several authors have established be- 
tween these animals and vertebrates, and proposes to place them at 
the base of the genealogical tree of the latter. M. Fol has been made a 
member of onr society on account of this work, which will be printed 
in Volume XX of onr memoirs. 

M. Godlrey Lunel has given some interesting facts observed at Ge- 
neva relative to the metamorphoses of the Axolotes. We know that 
these batracians are transformed sometimes by the loss of their bron- 
chia, and, from being aquatic, as they generally are, they become pul- 
monary animals, living in free air. Several Axolotes, placed in running 
water, did not experience any change; while of two others, left in a 
wash-basin, badly cared-for and exposed to the cold, one died, and the 
other was transformed by the loss of its bronchia ; but, after having 
been replaced in a normal condition, it re-assumed its first form so 
perfectly as not to be distinguished. This fact, which constitutes a sec- 
ond transformation in a retrograde direction, is entirely new. 

Dr. J. L. Prevost has given an account of experiments relative 
to the mode of action of anaesthetics and of chloroform upon the ner- 
vous center, and he has obtained results contrary to those of M. CI. 
Bernard. This physiologist states that the chloroform, in acting up- 
on the brain, affects not only that organ, but acts also, at a distance, 
upon the spinal marrow, without being in contact with it. M. Prevost 
has repeated the principal experiments of M. Bernard, which consist 
in stopping the circulation in frogs, by placing a bandage below the 
shoulders, then injecting diluted chloroform into one set below the skin 
of the anterior cut, and into the other below the skin of the posterior 
cut. In varying the position of the frogs, M. Prevost, after trial, 
has found that chloroform introduced in the posterior part can, 
contrary to the opinion of M. Bernard, an£estli,etize the anterior part 
when the frog is placed with the posterior members in the air, while 
the chloroform introduced in the anterior part does not aniesthetize the 
posterior part if we are careful to place the frog with the head down- 
ward. He thinks that M. Bernard has not been sufficiently careful to 
guard against the liltration of the chloroform through the tissues. 

M. Prevost, in applying pure chloroform to the denuded brain of 
a frog, of which the aorta was tied, and placed in the position above 
indicated, has aniesthetize the head only of the animal, leaving intact the 
functions of the spinal marrow. Afterward, when he has untied 
the aorta, these frogs have returned to their normal state, which proves 



SOCIETY OF PHYSICS AND NATURAL HISTORY, OF GENEVA. 353 

tliat the chloroform acts in this experiment simply as an auffisthetic, 
and not as a caustic, which destroyed the brain, leaving- the frog in the 
state of a headless animal. From these experiments M. Prevost has 
come to the conclusion that chloroform anossthetizes in the nervous cen- 
ter only the parts vrith which it is directly in contact, and that it does 
not act at a distance, as M. Bernard believed. 

M. Brown-Sequard has produced some phenomena of epilepsy upon 
Guinea pigs by means of hemisections of the marrow or of the 
section of a sciatic nerve. Dr. Prevost has obtained the same 
phenomena by the amputation of a thigh of one of these animals. In 
order to provoke a nervous attack it is sufficient to excite the zone 
called epileptic, which comprises the half of the surface corresponding 
to the member amputated, and immediately the animal is thrown into 
convulsions. The excitability of this zone decreases, however, with the 
continuation of the experiment, and it is always more difficult to pro- 
voke a new crisis. The study of this artificial epilepsy will, without 
doubt, throw some light upon the kind and nature of natural epilepsy. 

MEDICINE. 

Dr. Lombard has been investigating for several years the climate 
of mountains, a subject which more than any other ought to interest 
the physicians of Switzerland. His later researches are directed to the 
effect which these climates exercise upon pulmonary phthisis, a question 
which he had been appointed to investigate by the commission estab- 
lished at Samaden, for the purpose of its elucidation. He estimated 
that a residence in high altitudes would prevent the development of 
the phthisis, and even cure it, either in developing the pulmonary em- 
physema, or by favoring the functional periphery activity. (The work 
of M. Lombard has appeared in the Medical Bulletin of Switzerland.) 

Finally, M. Alphonse de Candolle read a notice which likewise de- 
serves to be registered in the medical rubric. It is, in fact, an appli- 
cation to this science of the Darwinian principles deduced from natural 
history, inasmuch as it treats of an effect of selections rendering variable 
the intensity of maladies when they are very deadly. According to the 
author, when a disease has severely attacked that portion of the popula- 
tion not advanced in years, the following generation, descending from 
persons not disposed to take this disease, Avill also be in the same 
condition by an ordinary effect of the hereditary law. There is, there- 
fore, a reason for the diminution of the epidemic. We can likewise 
explain why its attacks are most severe the first time it appears among 
a population, and why it afterward becomes rare or less fatal, which 
has been the case with most of the diseases of this kind. At the end 
of several generations, however, a population moderately attacked by 
a disease resembles the condition of a population who have never had 
it, and the result is a double intensity. Applying these principles to 
the small-pox, M. de Candolle estimated that at the time when Jenner 
2.3 s 71 



354 SOCIETY OF PHYSICS AND NATURAL HISTORY, OF GENEVA. 

introduced Yaccine, tlie variolic affection was weakened relative to tlie 
anterior epoch. Yaccine ought, therefore, to be as much more eflaca- 
cious when it is applied in a similar condition. Small-pox having 
nearly disappeared in Europe, during two generations a new population 
appears less exempted from its attacks, and this cause of receptibility 
ought to-day to render vaccine less efficacious. The author does not 
pretend to say that this is the only acting cause, but he thinks that, 
independently of others, it exists as a necessity, and that it ought to be 
taken into account. 

In giving a concise account of the labors of the society I have omit- 
ted many communications of a less important character, serving as 
themes for those discourses with which our meetings generally terminate. 

These familiar conversations, in which each one gives an account of 
his studies, and which are often succeeded by interesting discussions, con- 
tinue to occupy our meetings in the most useful and agreeable manner. 
They not only maintain between the members an intimate relation which 
we all appreciate, but likewise establish a sort of oral bulletin of the 
most recent discoveries, allowing each one to follow in a general man- 
ner the progress of science outside of his own specialty. 

INTERNAL ADMINISTRATION. 

Having given a summary of the papers presented at our meetings, it 
only remains for me, gentlemen to give you a brief account of the in- 
terior transactions of the society. Col. Emile Gautier has been 
elected president for 1871-72, and M. E. Sarasiu has been confirmed in 
his position as secretary. 

If we have had the misfortune to lose one of our colleagues, we have 
also had the satisfaction of gaining two new ordinary members in MM. 
Ilaoul Pictet and Herman Eol, and we have likewise increased the list 
of our free associates by the addition of MM. Georges Pr6vost, H. P. 
E. Sarasin, J. L. Micheli, and H. Barbey. The number of our ordinary 
members, wTiich, in 1867, was forty-one, to-day amounts to forty-nine, 
but the number of our free associates, which at the same date was 
forty members, has decreased to thirty-eight, including the admission of 
several associates to the title of ordinary members. You have also 
nominated as honorary members, in addition, MM. Eegnault, F^e, and 
Cap, who were mentioned above, Prof, de Notaris, of Genes, well 
known from his works upon botany, and the director of the Smith- 
sonian Institution, of Washington, Professor Joseph Henry. This 
savan has been associated with us a long time, in relations which we 
esteem infinitely precious, and assisted at one of our meetings in 1870. 

As to our publications, they have followed their ordinary course. The 
Society of Physics publishes each year half a volume, which they reserve 
as much as possible, on account of its size, for the memoirs accompanied 
with plates givingto the archives of science those which do not require illus- 
trations. It was in the year 1821 that the first^umber of our memoirs ap- 



SOCIETY OF PHYSICS AND NATUP.AL HISTORY, OF C4ENEVA. 355 

I^eared, and we fmislied tlie twentietli volaaie in 1870. You liiive decided to 
make a general index of this series, in order to facilitate researches 
which will become every day more diflicult to exatniue in proportion as 
the number of our volumes are increased. This index, which will ap- 
pear at the same time as the present volume, has been i^repared by our 
colleague, Alfred Le Fort, who very obligingly devoted his time and 
labor to our interests. I am commissioned, in the name of the society, 
to tender him our sincere acknowledgments. 

The recapitulation of the material contained in our first twenty vol- 
umes has shown that it includes in all three hundred and fifteen notices 
and memoirs, some of which constitute complete works. This iniblica- 
tiou constitutes, therefore, an important collection, which can claim a 
most honorable place among the scientific transactions of Europe. 

Lastly, I will add that, although at an expense somewhat exceeding 
the means of the society, the rich herbarium, for vrhich our city is in- 
debted to the generosity of the family of DeLessert, has been })laced in 
the botanical conservatory prepared for that purpose, where it is now 
definitely arranged in such a manner that botanists may have free ac- 
cess to it. 

Before concluding this report, I desire, gentleiiK-n, to communicate a 
circumstance which appears to me to have peculiar interest for us, as 
it refers to the origin of our society. In a preceding report, one of 
your presidents. Dr. Grosse, proposed at the fiftieth anniversary of 
the first scientific congress held at Geneva to give you, with a talent 
you all know how to appreciate, the history of the Society of Physics, 
of which his father was oae of the founders. In some researches to 
which I have devoted myself this winter, in order to find in the papers 
of my family some documents relative to the history of this society 
during the first years of its existence, I have found a piece which 
appears to me worthy- of your regard. It is a letter of M. A. Pictet to 
my grandfather, in which he announces the formation of the society and 
incloses the names of its founders. I will give the most important part 
of the letter : 

" I am commissioned, my very dear colleague, to offer to you, as likewise 
to your son Theodore and M. Necker, membership of a society with which 
I have the honor of being connected. I delayed mentioning it to you 
until I could send at the same time the rules, a copy of which I received 
yesterday. In reading them you will be informed of the obligations 
imposed, which I hope will not frighten you. I have already attended 
a meeting, and I assure you that, by the interest with which it- has 
inspired me, I judge it will prove a favorable and useful project for 
the i)rogress of natural science and the personal advantage of the in- 
dividuals who comf)ose this society. 

" Below are the actual members : 

" M. M. Colladon, Tolfot, Gosse, Vauche, Jurine, Gaudy de Russie, 



356 SOCIETY OF PHYSICS AND NATURAL HISTORY, OF GENEVA. 

Pictet. Members elected unanimously : M. M. de Saussurc, father and 
sou, Necker de Saussure, Seusbier, Tingrey. 

" Perhaps there are one or two others whom I have forgotten to men- 
tion, as I made this catalogue from memory. 

The next meeting will be the first Thursday after the 15th, at M. 
Toilet's, and if you accept your election, as we all hope you will, your 
membership dates from the present, as well as that of your son and M. 
Necker, to whom I beg you to have the goodness to communicate the 
rules. 

" Accept the sincere attachment of your devoted servant and colleague, 

" PICTET. 

" Geneva, Saturday, Ocioher 8, 1791." 

This document refers, as we see, the definite constitution of the Society 
of Physics to the year 1791. It shows that it was composed first of 
twelve sava7its of Geneva, and that the original meetings were held on 
Thursday, as in our days, though lately we have changed to Wednes- 
day. The limited number of its members continually increased, and we 
now have the satisfaction of seeing it sustained at a level which 
tends rather to rise than to fall. The construction of new 
academic buildings, in proportion to the new demands, is a speaking 
testimony of the increasing progress of the intellectual activity of our 
city. The extensions which could be made in the library, the laboratories, 
and the museums would furnish a new element to this activity, and 
would not fail to contribute to the extension of the taste for science in 
which Geneva ought to occupy a position before the world superior to 
that which would be assigned her, merely taking into consideration her 
population and the smallness of her territory. 

In concluding, we will hope that the year, so fraught with agitation, 
through which we have just passed may be succeeded by a" period of 
calm, of repose, and of prosperity, in which the peaceable occupations of 
science may take the place of the clamorous commotion with which we 
have been too long disturbed. Our society will then return to its la- 
bors with new ardor, and more fullj'^ maintain the honorable position 
so long occupied by our country, through the memory of the men who 
have distinguished it, and of whom the traditions are well preserved 
wherever profound truth is cherished. 

Appendix to the report of the president. 

EDWARD CLAPAKi:DE. 

Gentlemen: A few days after you had heard the reading of the 
report of your president upon the operations of the year 1870-'71, we 
received the afflicting iutelligence of the death of our excellent col- 
league, M. Edward Clapar^de. In view of the deep and unanimous 
regret which we all experience at the loss of one who ranked among 
the first savants of our city, we concluded it wpuld be too long to wait 



SOCIETY OF PHYSICS AND NATURAL HISTORY, OF GENEVA. 357 

until next year's report for the testimony of esteem and affection in 
wliich you all desire to unite, and we think it more suitable to add to 
this year's report a notice which shall from this day recall the memory 
of Claparede. 

Edward CLaparede, born in 1833, was from an ancient family in 
Geneva. He commenced his studies at the Academy of this city, where 
he was even then remarkable for his pre-eminent resources. En- 
dowed with a decided taste for natural sciences, he was the pupil of 
Professor Pictet de la Eive, who, by his instruction, developed in him 
a taste for zoology. In 1853 he went to the University of Berlin, where he 
studied with the distinguished Jean Miiller, who was not long in recog- 
nizing his merits, and of whom he became one of the best pupils. 
Even while pursuing his studies, he composed several memoirs upon 
the inferior animals, one of which treats of the anatomy of Cyclo- 
stoma elegans, which served him as a thesis for the doctorate. It was 
also at this time that he commenced, in common vvith his friend Lach- 
man, a great work upon the Infusoria and the EhyzoiJodia, which 
made a considerable advance in the science of these animals, and 
which obtained for him the great x)rize of physical science from the 
Institute of France. Made Doctor of Medicine in 1857, Claparede re- 
turned to Geneva, where he continued his labors with great assiduity, 
notwithstanding impaired health, and sufferings which would have dis- 
couraged almost anyone else. He was soon elected to a professorship, 
and displayed in his instruction the brilliant qualities which contribu- 
ted to increase the reputation of our Academy. He also gave several 
public lectures, which always attracted a large audience, thanks to his 
great erudition, and to the fluency of speech which gave to his instruc- 
tion an irresistible attraction. 

Although his tastes led him to prefer the study of inferior animals, 
he was occupied with various subjects, and we find in the memoirs of 
the Archives de la Biblioiheque Universelle numerous articles of his upon 
different branches of science, in which he gave a resume of works in 
foreign languages, also a number of analyses, as learned as varied, 
upon many subjects, which added much to the value of the bulletin. 
Understanding nearly all the languages of Europe, he could give an 
account of a great many works entirely inaccessible to others, while his 
critical appreciation bore the mark of a true scientific genius. 

The desire to pursue his researches upon marine animals induced 
Claparede to make numerous journeys to the sea-shore, and on each 
occasion he collected the materials for important investigations, the re- 
sults of which appeared either in Geneva, in the Memoirs of the Society 
of Physics, or in Germany, in the Zeitschrift flir wissenschaftliche Zoologie 
of Siebold and Kolliker, in the Archives of Miiller, &c. The class of 
Annelides more particularly arrested his attention. Almost every 
year he made it the subject of some new publication, and finally devo- 
ted his great work to the Annelides of Naples, which, unfortunately, 



358 SOCIETY OF PHYSICS AND NATURAL HISTORY, OF GENEVxi. 

was the last labor of his life. There is, however, still auother exten- 
sive work by him, not yet printed, which will appear, treating of the 
history of these animals. 

Besides his stndy of marine animals, Claparede made at Geneva very- 
varied researches on other subjects. He published memoirs upon bin- 
ocular vision, and numerous works upon the embryology of the Arthr- 
opodes. In 18G0 the Society of the Sciences, of Utrecht, awarded him 
a gold medal for his beautiful investigations relative to the evolution 
of the Aran<Sides, which were followed by his studies' upon different 
crustaceous and acarious animals, which include many new facts, and 
which are all important works in the i^rogress of science. In fact, 
Claparede, always noted* for the correctness of his eye, ended by 
becoming an authority of the first order in all questions to be deci- 
ded by the microscope, and in this respect he exercised throughout the 
entire world a well-merited authority. His eminent genius for obser- 
vation, the clearness of his judgment, which comprehended all diiS- 
culties, naturally led Claparede to the study of Darwinism, of which he 
became a decided defender, and in relation to which he published sev- 
eral remarkable articles. 

In reading the numerous and important works of Clapavede, no one 
would imagine the sad condition of his health. AfiHicted with serious 
organic maladies, his life was one long martyrdom. A violent disease ©f 
the heart had, from his earliest youth, caused great disturbance through 
the whole of his organism ; all exercise of any importance was inter- 
dicted ; frequent hsemoptysies brought him several times to the verge 
of the grave; suffering of various kinds rendered him incapable of 
work during long periods, and we can hardly comprehend how, even in 
Ms best moments, he could devote himself to active research. His life 
was sustained by a force of energy in his latter years, and by extreme 
measures which uo i)hysician would have dared to advise. This condi- 
tion of health did not cease to be a cause of anxiety and sadness to his 
friends. It prevented him from undertaking works of great length, and 
we can judge by what he has accomplished, notwithstanding so many 
difficulties, how much he might have done if he had been blessed with 
good or even moderate health. 

The necessity for a warm climate, as much as his passion for the sea- 
shore, induced Claparede, in 1866, to pass the winter at Naples. This 
sojourn agreed with him perfectly; he devoted himself to his immens6 
researches upon the Annelides, which fills the twentieth volume of our 
memoirs. This induced him, two years after, to spend a second winter 
in Naples, but the serious illness of his wife made work almost impossi- 
ble; the assiduous care which he lavished upon the companion of his 
life weakened him, and he became himself extremely ill. Nevertheless, 
he desired, in 1870, to again attempt a sojourn at Naples, but far from 
experiencing any relief he was more indisposed than ever. A hydrop- 
sy, which slowly ascended toward the vital jorgans, left him no hope- 



SOCIETY OF PHYSICS AND NATURAL HISTORY, OF GENEVA. 359 

He foiiglit against it, accordiug to his custom, witli au extraordiuary eu- 
ergy, denyiug iiitaself driuks, and submittiug to a treatment whicli the 
physicians believed to be beyond the endurance of a patient. He died 
the 31st of May, at Sienue, on his return voyage, at the age of thirty- 
nine years, just at the time when we all had reason to hope that it would 
not be long before we should again welcome him to our midst. 

The death of Claparede has taken from Geneva one of the finest 
flowers from her scientific crown, and from our Academy one of its 
most illustrious professors. The sorrow of his death will extend beyond 
the extreme limit of our city, and be felt wherever science is cultivated. 
Claparede was one of those men who make a mark in the intellectual 
life of a country and who seem predestined to be the founder of a school. 
We recognize in him a combination of faculties rarely found united in 
the same individual, an extraordinary facility to assimilate the labors 
of others, a prodigious memory, great quickness of concoi)tion, and a 
certainty of observation which was never at fault. To these essential 
faculties were joined all the accessory qualities which facilitate work in 
the domain of natural sciences. He excelled in the art of fine prepara- 
tions 5 he handled the brush with as much talent as the surgeon's knife, 
and drew himself the plates of his work. He understood all the lan- 
guages of Europe outside of the Slavonic tongues ; his studies were im.- 
mense and redundant, though he made but few notes; his erudition 
was really wonderful. The largeness of his views struck all who 
approached him, and his instructions had a fascinating attractiveness, 
though nothing was sacrificed to eloquence. His conversation was 
always learned upon almost any subject, for it would have been dif- 
ficult to find a specialty, scientific or literary, even among those most 
foreign from his ordinary studies, in which he could be taken unawares. 

As for us, gentlemen, it is not only a philosopher whom we mourn, 
but a tried and devoted friend ; a man of uprightness, one who, besides 
the genius of science, possessed also all the generous qualities of the heart. 
I can only regret, in concluding, that the remembrance of his life among . 
us should not be recorded in our annals by a pen more worthy than mine. 



EIPEDITIOJf TOWARD TEE N#STH POLE. 



INSTRUCTIONS TO CAPTAIN HALL, BY HON. G. M. EOBESON, SECRETARY 

OF THE NAVY. 



Navy DepartjMENT, June 9, 1871. 
Sir : Having- been appointed, by tlie President of the United States, 
commander of the expedition toward tbe North Pole, and the steamer 
Polaris having been fitted, equipped, provisioned, and assigned for the 
purpose, you are placed in command of the said vessel, her ofiicers and 
crew, for the purposes of the said expedition. Having taken command, 
you will proceed in the vessel, at the earliest possible date, from the navy- 
yard in this city to New York. From New York you will proceed to 
the first favorable port you are able to make on the west coast of Green- 
land, stopping, if you deem it desirable, at St. Johns, Newfoundland. 
From the first port made by you, on the west coast of Greenland, if farther 
south than Holsteinberg, you will proceed to that port, and thence 
to Goodhaven, (or Lively,) in the island of Disco. At some one of the 
ports above referred to you will probably meet a transport, sent by the 
Department, with additional coal and stores, from which you will supply 
yourself to the fnllest carrying capacity of the Polaris. Should you fall 
in with the transport before making either of the ports aforesaid, or 
should you obtain information of her being at, or having landed her 
stores at any port south of the island of Disco, you will at once proceed 
to put yourself in communication with the commander of the transport, 
and supply yourself witli the additional stores and coal, taking such 
measures as may be most expedient and convenient for that purpose. 
Should you not hear of the transport before reaching Holsteinberg, you 
will remain at that port, waiting for her and your supplies, as long as 
the object of your expedition will permit you to delay for that purpose. 
After waiting as long as is safe, under all the circumstances as they may 
present themselves, you will, if you do not hear of the transport, pro- 
ceed to Disco, as above provided. At Disco, if you hear nothing of the 
transport, you will, after waiting as long as you deem it safe, supply 
yourself, as far as you may be able, with such supplies and articles as 
you may need, and proceed on your expedition without further delay. 
From Disco you will proceed to Upernavik. At these two last-named 
places you will procnre dogs and other Arctic outfits. If you think it 
of advantage for the purpose of obtaining dogs, &c., to stop at Tossak, 
you will do so. From Upernavik, or Tossak, as the case may be, you 
will proceed across Melville Bay to Cape Dudley Digges, and thence 
you will make all possible progress, with vessels, boats, and sledges, 



862 EXPEDITION TOWARD THE NORTH POLE. 

toward the NortliPole, using your own judgmeut as to the route or 
routes to be pursued aud the locality for each "u inter's quarters. Having 
been provisioned and equipped for two and a half years, you^Yill pursue 
your explorations for that period j but, should the object of the expedi- 
tion require it, you will continue j^our explorations to such a further 
length of time as your supplies maybe safely extended. Should, how- 
ever, the main object of the expedition, viz, attaining the position of the 
North Pole, be accomplished at an earlier period, you will return to the 
United States with all convenient dispatch. 

There being attached to the expedition a scientific department, its 
operations are i)rescribed in accordance with the advice of the National 
Academy of Sciences, as required by the law. Agreeably to this advice, 
the charge and direction of the scientific operations will be intrusted, 
under your command, to Doctor Emil Bessels; and you will render Dr. 
Bessels and his assistants all such facilities and aids as may be in your 
power to carry into eflect the said further advice, as given in the in- 
structions herewith furnished in a communication from the president of 
the National Academy of Sciences. It is, however, important that ob- 
jects of natural history, ethnology, &c., &c., which may be collected by 
any person attached to the expedition, shall be delivered to the chief 
of the scientific department, to be cared for by him, under your direc- 
tion, and considered the property of the Government; and every 
person be strictly prohibited from keeping any such object. You 
will direct every qualified person in the expedition to keep a private 
journal of the progress of the expedition, and enter on it events, obser- 
vations, and remarks, of any nature whatsoever. These journals shall 
be considered confidential aud read by no person other than the writer. 
Of these journals no copy shall be made. Upon the return of the ex- 
pedition you will demand of each of the writers his journal, which it is 
hereby ordered he shall deliver to you. Each M'riter is to be assured 
that when the records of the expedition are published he shall receive 
a copy; the private journal to be returned to the writer, or not, at the 
option of the Government; but each writer, in the published records, 
shall receive credit for such part or parts of his journal as maybe used 
in said records. You will use every opportunity to determine the posi 
tion of all capes, headlands, islands, &c., the lines of coasts, take sound- 
ings, observe tides and currents, and make all such surveys as may 
advance our knowledge of the geography of the Arctic regions. 

You will give special written directions to the sailing and ice master 
of the expedition, INIr. S. O. Buddiugton, and to the chief of the scientific 
department, Dr. E. Bessels, that in case of your death or disability — a 
contingency w^e sincerely trust may not arise — they shall consult as to 
the propriety and manner of carrying into further effect the foregoing 
instructions, which I here urge must, if possible, be done. The results 
of their consultations, and the reasons therefor, must be put iu writing, 
and kept as part of the records of tlie expedition. In any event, how- 



EXPEDITION TOWARD THE NORTH POLE. 3G3 

ever, Mr. Buildiugton sliall, in case of your deutli or disability, coiitiuiie 
as the sailing" and ice master, and control and direct the movements of 
the vessel; and Dr. Besseis shall, in such case, continue as chief of the 
scientific department, directing" al! sledge Journeys and scientific opera- 
tions. In the possible contingency of their non-agreement as to the 
course to be pursued, then Mr. Buddington sliall assume sole charge 
and command, and return with the expedition to the United States with 
all possible dispatch. 

You will transmit to this Department, as often as opportunity offers, 
reports of your iirogress and results of your search, detailing the route 
of your proposed advance. At the most prominent points of your 
progress you will erect conspicuous skeleton stone monuments, deposit- 
ing near each, in accordance with the confidential marks agreed upon, 
a condensed record of your progress, with a description of the route 
upon wliich you propose to advance, making caches of provisions, &c., 
if you deem fit. 

In the event of the necessity of finally abandoning your vessel, you 
will at once endeavor to reach localities frequented by whaling or other 
ships, making" every exertion to send to the United States information 
of your position and situation, and as soon as possible to return with 
your party, preserving, as far as maj^ be, the records of, and all possi- 
ble objects and specimens collected in, the expedition. 

All persons attached to the expedition are under your command, and 
shall, under every circumstance and condition, be subject to the rules, 
regulations, and laws governing the discipline of the Navy, to be modi- 
fied, but not increased, by you as the circumstances may in your judg- 
ment require. 

To keep the Government as well informed as possible of your pro- 
gress, you will, after passing Cape Dudlej" Digges, throw overboard 
daily, as open water or drifting ice may permit, a bottle or small copper 
cylinder, closely sealed, containing a paper, stating date, i)ositiou, and 
such other facts as you may deem interesting. For this purpose you 
will have prepared papers containing a request, jDrinted in several 
languages, that the finder transmit it by the most direct route to the 
Secretary of the Navy, "Washington, United States of America. 

Upon the return of the expedition to the United States, you will 
transmit your own and all other records to the Department. You will 
direct Dr. Besseis to transmit all the scientific records and collections 
to the Smithsonian Institution, Washington. 

The history of the expedition will be prepared by yourself, from all 
the journals and records of the expedition, under the supervision of the 
Department. All the records of the scientific results of the expedition 
will be prepared, supervised, and edited by Dr. Besseis, under the 
direction and authority of the president of the National Academy of 
Sciences. 
Wishing for you and your brave comrades health, happiness, and 



364 EXPEDITION TOWARD THE NORTH POLE. 

success in your daring enterprise, and commending you and them to 
the protecting care of the God who rules the universe, 
I am, very respectfully, jours, 

GEO. M. EOBESON, 

Secretary of the Navy. 
Ohas. F. Hall, 

Commanding Expedition toward the North Pole. 



LETTER OF PROFESSOR JOSEPH HENRY, (PRESIDENT OF THE NATIONAL 
ACADEMY OF SCIENCES,) WITH INSTRUCTIONS TO CAPTAIN C. F. HALL 
FOR THE SCIENTIFIC OPERATIONS OF THE EXPEDITION TOWARD THE 
NORTH POLE. 

Washington, D, C, June 9, 1871. 

Sir : In accordance with the law of Congress authorizing the expe- 
dition for explorations within the Arctic Circle, the scientific operations 
are to be prescribed by the National Academy ; and in behalf of this 
society I respectfully submit the following remarks and suggestions : 

The appropriation for this expedition was granted by Congress prin- 
cipally on account of the representations of Captain Hall and his friends 
*as to the possibility of improving our knowledge of the geography of 
the regions beyond the eightieth degree of north latitude, and more 
especially of reaching the Pole. Probably on this account and that of 
the experience which Captain Hall had acquired by seven years' resi- 
dence in the Arctic regions, he was appointed by the President as com- 
mander of the expedition. 

In order that Captain Hall might have full opportunity to arrange his 
plans, and that no impediments should be put in the way of their 
execution, it was proper that he should have the organization of the 
expedition and the selection of his assistants. These privileges having 
been granted him. Captain Hall early appointed as the sailing-master 
of the expedition his friend and former fellow-voyager in the Arctic 
Zone, Captain Buddington, who has spent twenty-five years amid polar 
ice ; and for the subordinate positions, persons selected especially for 
their experience of life in the same regions. 

Tt is evident from the foregoing statement that the expedition, except 
in its relations to geographical discovery, is not of a scientific character, 
and to connect with it a full corps of scientific observers whose duty it 
vshould be to make minute investigations relative to the physics of the 
globe, and to aftbrd them such facilities with regard to time and position 
as would be necessary to the full success of the object of their organi- 
zation, would materially interfere with the views entertained by Captain 
Hall, and the purpose for which the appropriation was evidently 
intended by Congress. 

Although the special objects and peculiar organization of this expe- 
dition are not primarily of a scientific character, yet many phenomena 
may be observed and specimens of natural history be incidentally col- 
lected, particularly during the long winter periods in which the vessel 



EXPEDITION TOWARD THE NORTH POLE. 365 

must necessarily remain statiouary ; aucl therefore, in order that the 
opportunity of obtaining such results might not be lost, a committee 
of the National Academy of Sciences was appointed to prepare a 
series of instructions on the different branches of physics and natural 
history, and to render assistance in procuring the scientific outfit. 

Great difGcnlty was met with in obtaining men of the proper scientific 
acquirements to embark in an enterprise which must necessarily be 
attended with much ijrivation, and in which, in a measure, science must 
be subordinate. This difficulty was, however, happily obviated by the 
offer of an accomplished physicist and naturalist, Dr. E. Bessels, . of 
Heidelberg, to take charge of the scientific operations, with such assist- 
ance as could be afforded him by two or three intelligent young men 
that might be trained for the service. Dr. Bessels was the scientific 
director of the German expedition to Spitzbergen and Nova Zembla, in 
1809, during which he made, for the first time, a most interesting series 
of observations on the depths and currents of the adjacent seas. From 
his character, acquirements, and enthusiasm in the cause of science, he 
is admirably well qualified for the arduous and laborious office for which 
he is a volunteer. The most important of the assistants was one to be 
intrusted, under Dr. Bessels, with the astronomical and magnetic 
observations, and such a one has been found in the. person of Mr. Bryan, 
a graduate of Lafayette College, at Baston, Pennsylvania, who, under 
the direction of Professor Hilgard, has received from Mr. Schott and 
Sir. Keith, of the Coast Survey, practical instructions in the use of the 
instruments. 

The Academy would therefore earnestly recommend, as an essential 
condition of the success of the objects in. which it is interested, that Dr. 
Bessels be appointed as sole director of the scientific operations of the 
expedition, and that Captain Hall be instructed to afford him isuch 
facilities and assistance as may be necessary for the special objects 
under his charge, and which are not incompatible with the prominent 
idea of the original enterprise. 

As to the route to be pursued with the greatest probability of reach- 
ing the Pole, either to the east or west of Greenland, the Acadeuiy for- 
bears to make any suggestions, Captain Hall having definitely concluded 
that the route through Baffin's Bay, the one with which he is most 
familiar, is that to be adopted. One point, however, should be specially 
urged upon Captain Hall, namely, the determination with the utmost 
scientific precision possible of all his geographical positions, and 
especially of the ultimate northern limit which he attains. The evidence 
of the genuineness of every deteruiiuatiou of this kind should be made 
apparent beyond all question. 

On the return of tl\e expedition the collections which may be made in 
natural history-, &c., will, in accordance with a law of Congress, be de- 
posited in the National Museum, under the care of the Smithsonian In- 
stitution ; and we would suggest that the scientific records be discussed ^ 
and prepared for publication by Dr. Bessels, with such assistance as he 



366 EXPEDITION TOWARD THE NORTH POLE. 

may require, under tbe direction of the National Academy. The import- 
ance of refusing to allow journals to be kept exclusively for private use, 
or collections to be made other than those belonging to the expedition, 
is too obvious to need special suggestion. 

In fitting out the expedition, the Smithsonian Institution has afforded 
all the facilities in its power in procuring the necessary apparatus, and 
in furnishing the outfit for making collections in the various depart- 
ments of natural history. The Coast Survey, under the direction of 
Professor Peirce, has contributed astronomical and magnetical instru- 
ments. The Hydrographio Office, under Captain Wyman, has furnished 
a transit instrument, sextants, chronometers, charts, books, &c. The 
Signal Corps, nnder General Myer, has supplied anemometers, ther- 
mometers, aneroid, and mercurial barometers, besides detailing a ser- 
geant to assist in the meteorological observations. The members of 
the committee of the Academy, especially Professors Baird and Hilgard, 
have, in discussing with Dr. Bessels the several points of scientific in- 
vestigation and in assisting to train his observers, rendered important 
service. 

The liberal manner in which the Navy Department, under your direc- 
tion, has provided a vessel, and especially fitted it out for the purpose 
with a bountiful supply of provisions, fuel, and all other requisites for 
the success of the expedition, as well as the health and comfort of its 
members, will, we doubt not, meet the approbation of Congress, and be 
highly appreciated by all persons interested in Arctic exx)lorations. 

From the foregoing statement it must be evident that the provisions 
for exploration and scientific research in this cnse are as ample as those 
which have ever been made for any other Arctic expedition, and should 
the results not be commensurate with the anticipations in regard to 
them, the fact cannot be attributed to a want of interest in the enter- 
prise, or to inadequacy of the means which have been afforded. 

We have, however, full confidence, not only iii the ability of Captain 
Hall and his naval associates to make important additions to the knowl- 
edge of the geogTaphy of the polar region, but also in his interest in 
science and his determination to do all in his power to assist and facili- 
tate the scientific operations. 

Appended to this letter is the series of instructions prepared by the 
committee of the Academy, viz, the instructions on astronomy, by Pro- 
fessor Newcomb; on magnetism, tides, &c., by Professor J. E. Hilgard; 
on meteorology, by Professor Henry; on natural history, by Professor 
S. F. Baird; on geology, by Professor Meek; and on glaciers, by Pro- 
fessor Aga'ssiz. 

I have the honor to be, very respectfully, your obedient servant, 

JOSEPH HENRY, 
President of the National Academy of Sciences. 

Hon. George M. Eobeson, 

Secretary of the jV«rj/. 



EXPEDITION TOWARD THE NORTH POLE. 367 

INSTEUOTIONS. 

GENERAL DIRECTIONS IN REGARD TO THE MODE OF KEEPING 

RECORDS. 

Records of observations. — It is of the first importance that in all in- 
strn mental observations the fullest record be made, and that the original 
notes be preserved carefully. 

In all cases the actual instrumental readings must be recorded, and 
if any corrections are to be applied, the reason for these corrections 
must also be recorded. For instance, it is not sufficient to state the 
index error of a sextant; the manner of ascertaining it and the readings 
t;tken for the jjurpose must be recorded. 

The log-book should contain a continuous narrative of all that is done 
by the expedition and of all incidents which occur on shipboard, and a 
similar journal should be kept by each sledge party. The actual obser- 
vations for determining time, latitude, the sun's bearing, and all notes 
having reference to mapping the shore, soundings, temperature, «&c., 
should be entered in the log-book or journal in the regular order of 
occurrence. When scientific observations are more fully recorded in the 
note-books of the scientific observer than can be conveniently transcribed 
into the log-book, the fact of the observation and reference to the note- 
book should be entered. 

The evidence of the genuineness of the observations brought back 
should be of the most irrefragable character. No erasures, wliatever,, 
v/ith rubber or knife, should be made. When an entry requires correc- 
tion, the figures or words should be merely crossed by a line, and the 
correct figures written above. 

J. E. HlLC^AED. 
ASTRONOMY. 

jisirono'tuicalohscrvations. — Oneof the chronometers, the most valuable, 
if there is any difference, should be selected as the standard by which 
all observations are to be made, as far as practicable. The other 
chronometers should all be compared with this every day at the time 
of winding, and the comparisons entered in the astronomical note- 
book. 

When practicable, the altitude or zenith distance of the sun should 
betaken four times a day — morning and evening for time; noon and 
midnight for latitude. The^tlironometer or watch times of the latitude 
observations, as well as of the time observations, should always be 
recorded. Each obsi'rvation should ahvays be repeated at least three 
times in all, to detect any mistake. 

When the moon is visible, three measures of her altitude should be 
taken about the time of her passage over each cardinal point of true 
bearing, and the chronometer time of each altitude sbould be recorded. 

As the Greenwich time deduced from the chronometers will be quite 



368 EXPEDITION TOWARD THE NORTH POLE- 

unreliable after the first sis months, it will be necessary to have recourse 
to lunar^distauces. These should be measui-ed from the sun, in prefer- 
ence to a star, whenever it is practicable to do so. 

If a sextant is used in observation, a measure of the semi-diameter of 
the sun or moon should be taken every day or two for index error. 

The observations are by no means to be pretermitted when lying in 
port, because they will help to correct the position of the port. 

The observations should, if convenient, be taken so near the standard 
chronometer that the observer can signal the moment of observation to 
an assistant at the chronometer, who is to note the time. If this is not 
found convenient, and a comparing watch is used, the watch-time and 
the comparison of the w^atch with the chronometer should both be care- 
fully recorded. 

The observations made by the main party should be all written down 
in full in a continuous series of note-books, from which they may be 
copied in the log. Particular care should be exercised in always recording 
the place, date, and limh of sun or moon observed, and any other particu- 
lars necessary to the complete understanding of the observation, 

S. NEWCOism. 

Ohservatmis at winter quarters. — The astronomical transit instrument 
will be set up in a suitable observatory. A meridian mark should be 
established as soon as practicable, and the instrument kept with con- 
stant care in the vertical plane passing through the mark, in order that 
all observations may be brought to bear on determining the deviation 
of that plane from the meridian of the places. The transits of circum- 
polar stars, on both sides of the Pole, uud those of stars near the Equa- 
tor, should be frequently observed. 

Moon culminations, including the transits of both first and second 
limbs, should be observed for the determination of longitude independ- 
eutly of the rates of the chronometers. Twelve transits of each limb is 
a desirable number to obtain— more, if practicable. If any occulta- 
tious of bright stars by the moon are visible, they should be likewise 
observed. 

The obser^•ations for latitude will be made with the sextant and arti- 
ficial horizon, upon stars both north and south of the zenith. 

All the chronometers of the expedition should be compared daily, as 
nearly as practicable about the same time. 

Whenever a party leaves the permanent station for an exploration, 
and immediately upon its return, its chronometer should be compared 
with the standard chronometer of the station. 

Ohservations during sledge or boat journeys.— The instruments to be 
taken are the small Casella theodolite, or a pocket sextant and artificial 
horizon, one or more chronometers, and a prismatic compass, for taking 
magnetic/bearings of the sun. In very high latitudes the time of the 
sun's meridian altitude is not readily determined ; it will be advisable, 



EXPEDITION TOWARD THE NORTH POLE. 369 

therefore, to take altitudes when tlie sun is near the ijieridiau, as in- 
dicated by the compass, with regard to the variations of the compass, 
as derived from an isogonic chart. The time wheu the observation is 
taken will, of course, be noted by the chronometer. Altitudes should 
be taken in this way, both to the south and north of the zenith ; they 
will enable the traveler to obtain his latitude at once very nearly, with- 
out the more laborious computation of the time. 

The observations for time should be taken as nearly as may be when 
the sun is at right angles to the meridian, to the east and west, the 
compass being again used to ascertain the proper direction. This 
method of proceeding will call for observations of altitude at or near 
the four cardinal points, or nearly six hours apart in time. 

Wheu the party changes its place in the interval between their ob- 
servations, it is necessary to have some estimate of the distance and 
direction traveled. The ultimate mapping of the route will mainly 
depend upon the astronomical observations, but no i^ains should be 
spared to make a record every hour of the estimated distance traveletl — 
by log, if afloat — of the direction of the route, b}- compass, and of bear- 
ings of distant objects, such as peaks, or marked headlands, by which 
the route may be plotted. 

In case of a few days' halt being made when a very high latitude has 
been reached, or at any time during" the summer's explorations, a 
special object of care should be to ascertain the actual rate of the 
chronometers with the party. To this end, a well-defined, fixed object, 
in any direction, should be selected as a mark, the theodolite pointed 
on it, and the transit of the sun over its vertical observed on every day 
during the sojourn at the place. If the party be only i)rovided with a 
sextant, then the same angular distances of the sun from a fixed object 
should be observed on successive days, the angles being chosen so as 
to be between 30° and 45°. For instance, set the sextant successively 
to 40O, to 40° 20', 40° 40', &c., and note the time when the sun's liml) 
comes in contact with the object. The same distances will be found 
after twenty-four hours, with a correction for change in the sun's declin- 
ation. Tiie sun's altitude should be observed before and after these 
observations, and its magnetic bearing' should be noted, as well as that 
of the mark. The altitude of the mark should also be observed, if 
practicable, either with the sextant or clinometer, but this is not 
essential. J. E. Hilgaed. 

MAGNETISIM. 

Ou the voyage and sledge-journey, at all times when traveling, the 
declination or variation of the compass should be obtained by observing 
the magnetic bearing of the sun at least once every day on which the 
sun is visible. On ship-board or in boats the azimuth compass is to be 
used ; on land the small theodolite will be found preferable. 

Wheu afloat, no valuable observations of the maguetic dii) and in- 
24 s 71 



370 EXPEDITION TOWARD THE NORTH POLE. 

tensity are practicable. Ou the sledge-journey tlie dip-circle may be 
carried, and when baits are made longer tban necessary to determine 
the place by astronomical observations, the dip and relative intensity, 
according to Lloyd's method, should be ascertained. 

At winter quarters, in addition to the above-mentioned observations, 
those of absolute horizontahintensity should be made with the theodolite 
magnetometer, including the deter uiination of moment of inertia. Also 
with the same instrument the absolute declination should be deter- 
mined. 

The least that the observer should be satisfied with is the complete 
determination of the three magnetic elements, namely, declination, dip, 
and horizontal intensity. At one period, say within one week, three 
determinations of each should be made. 

It is advisable that the same observations be repeated on three suc- 
cessive days of each month during the stay at one place ; and that on 
three days of each mouth, as the 1st, 11th, and 21st, or any other da^-s, 
the variation of the declination-magnet be read every half hour during 
the twenty-four hours; also that the magnetometer, or at least a theo- 
dolite with compass, remain mounted at all times, that the variation of 
the needle may be observed as often as practicable, and especially when 
unusual displays of aurora horcalis take place. 

In all cases the time, which forms au essential part of the record, should 
be carefully noted, 

iNfot long before starting on a sledge journey from a wintev station, 
and soon after returning, the observations with the loaded dipping 
needles for relative intensity should be repeated, in order to have a 
trustworthy comparison for the observations which have been made ou 
the journey. 

POECE OF GRAVITY. 

As the long winter affords ample leisure, pendulum experiments may 
be made to determine the force of gravity, in comparison with that at 
Washington, where observations have been made with. the Hayes pen- 
dulum lent to the expedition. The record of the Washington observa- 
tions, a copy of which is furnished, will serve as a guide in making the 
observations. Special care should be taken while they are in progress 
to determine the rate of the chronometer with great precision, by obser- 
vations of numerous stars with the astronomical transit instrument, the 
pointing of which on a fixed mark should be frequently verified. 

OCEAN PHYSICS. 

Beiiths. — Soundings should be taken frequently, when in moderate 
depths, at least sufficiently often to give some indication of the general 
depth of the strait or sound in which the vessel is afloat at the time. If 
an open sea be reached, it should be considered of the greatest import- 
ance to get some measure of its depth, and sin<ie no bulky sounding ap- 



EXPEDITION TOWARD THE NORTH POLE. 371 

parntns can bo carried across the ice barrier, tlie boat party sliould be 
provided ^Yitll 1,000 fathoms of small twiue, marked in lengths of 10 
fathoms. Stones taken on board when the boat is launched, may serve 
as weights. 

Bottom should be brought up whenever practicable, and specimens 
preserved. Circumstances of time and opportunity must determiue 
whether a dredge can be used, or merely a spccimen-cvp. 

Temperature of the sea should be observed with the " Miller protect- 
ed bulb thermometer," made by Casella, near the surface, about two 
fathoms below the surface, and near the bottom. When time permits, 
observations at an intermediate depth should be taken. These observa- 
tions have a particular bearing on the general circulation of the ocean, 
and are of great imi)ortance. 

Tides. — Observations of high and low water, as to time and height, 
should be made continuously at winter quarters. The method adopted 
by Dr. Hayes is recommended. It consists of a graduated stall an- 
chored to the bottom, directly under the " ice-hole," by a mushroom- 
anchor, or heavy stone and a chain, which is kept stretched by a counter- 
weight attached to a rope that passes over a pully rigged overhead. 
The readings are tiiken by the height of the water in the '" ice-hole." 
In the course of a few days' careful observations the periods of high 
and low water will become sut!iciently well known to predict the turns 
api)roximating from day to day, and subsequently, observations taken 
every five minutes for half an hour, about the anticipated turn, will 
suffice, provided they be continued until the turn of the tide has be- 
come well marked. 

Tidal observations taken at other points, when a halt is made for 
some time, even if continued not longer than a week, will be of special 
value, as affording an indication as to the direction in which the tide- 
wave is progi^essiug, andinferentially as to the proximity of an open sea. 
If, as the expedition proceeds, the tide is found to be later, the iudica- 
tion is that the open sea is far distant, if indeed the channel be not 
closed. But if the tide occurs earlier, as the ship advances, the proba- 
bility is strongly in favor of* the near approach to an open, deep sea, 
communicating directly with the Atlantic Ocean. 

In making such fi com]>arison, attention must be paid to the semi- 
monthly inequality in the time of high v>ater, which may be a-pproxi- 
mately taken from the observations at winter quarters. Observations 
made at the same age of the moon, in difi'erent places, may be directly 
compared. 

When the water is open, the tide may be observed by means of a 
graduated pole stuck into the bottom; or, if that cannot be conveniently 
done, by means of a marked line, anchored to the bottom, and floated 
by a light buoy, the observation being taken by hauling up the line 
taut over the anchor. 

Currents. — It is extremely desirable to obtain some idea of the cur- 



372 EXPEDITION TOWARD THE NORTH POLE. 

reuts iu the opeu polar sea, if such is found. No special observations 
can be indicated, however, except those of the drift of icebergs, if any 
should be seen. 

Density. — The dcnsiUj of the sea-water should be frequently observed 
with delicate hydrometers, giving direct indications to the fourth deci- 
mal. Whenever practicable, water should be brought up from different 
depths, and its density tested. The specimens should be preserved in 
carefully- sealed bottles, with a view to the subsequent determination of 
their mineral contents. 

J. E. HiLGARD. 
METEOROLOGY. 

The expedition is well supplied with meteorological instruments, all 
the standards, with the exception of the mercurial barometers, manu- 
factured by Casella, and compared with the standards of the Kew Ob- 
servatory under the direction of Professor Balfour Stewart. Dr. Bes- 
sels is so familiar with the use of instruments, and so well acquainted 
with the principles of meteorology, that minute instructions are unne- 
cessary. We shall therefore merely call attention, by way of remem- 
brance, to the several points worthy of special notice.' 

Temperature. — The registers of the temperature, aa well as of the 
barometer, direction of the wind, and moisture of the atmosphere should, 
in all cases in which it is possible, be made hourly, and when that can- 
not be done they should be made at intervals of two, three, four, or six 
hours. The temperature of the water of the ocean, as well as of the 
air, should be taken during the sailing of the vesseb 

The minimum temperature of the ice, while in winter quarters, should 
be noted from time to time, perhaps at different depths; also that of the 
water beneath. 

The temperature of the black-bulb thermometer in vacuo exposed to 
the sun, and also that of the black bulb free to the air, should be fre- 
quently observed while the sun is on the meridian, and at given alti- 
tudes in the forenoon and afternoon, and these observations compared 
with those of the ordinary thermometer in the shade. 

Experiments should also be made with a thermometer in the focus of 
the silvered mirror, the face of which is directed to* the sky. For this 
purpose the ordinary black-bulb thermometer may be 'used as well as 
the naked-bulb thermometer. The thermometer thus placed will gen- 
erally indicate a lower temperature than one freely exi)osed to radiation 
from the ground and terrestrial objects, and in case of isolated clouds 
will probably serve to indicate those which are colder and perhaps 
higher. 

Comparison may also be made between the temperature at different 
distances above the earth, by suspending thermometers on a spar at 
different heights. 

The temperatuiG of deep soundings should "be taken with the ther- 



EXPEDITION TOWARD THE NORTH POLE. 373 

mometer with a guard to obviate the pressure of the water. As the 
tendency, on account of the revohition of the earth, is constantly to 
deflect all currents to the riglit hand of the observer looking down 
stream, the variations in temperature in connection with this fact may 
serve to assist in indicating the existence, source, and direction of cur- 
rents. 

The depth of frost should be ascertained, and also, if possible, the 
point of invariable temperature. For this purj)ose augers and drills 
with long stems for boring deeply shouhl be provided. 

Fressure of air. — A series of comparative observations should be 
made of the indications of the mercurial and aneroid barometers. The 
latter will be affected hj the variation, of gravity as well as of temper- 
ature, while the former will require a correction due only to heat "and 
cai)illarity. 

As it is known that the normal height of the barometer varies in dif- 
ferent latitudes, accurate observations in the Arctic regions with this 
instrument are very desirable, especially in connection with observa- 
tions on the moisture of the atmosphere, since, to the small quantity of 
this in northern latitudes the low barometer which is observed there 
has been attributed. 1 think, however, it will be found that the true 
cause is in the rotation of the earth on its axis, which, if sufficieutly 
ra})id, would project all the air from the pole. 

In the latitude of about GO there is a belt around the earth in which 
the barqpieter stands unusually high, and in which violent fluctuations 
occur. This will i)robably be exhibited in the projection of the curve 
representing the normal height of the barometrical column in diiierent 
latitudes. 

Moisture. — The two instruments for determining the moisture in the 
air are the wet and dry-bulb thermometer, and the dew-point instru- 
ment, as improved by Kegnault. But to determine the exact quantity 
in the atmosphere in the Arctic regions will require the use of an aspi- 
rator, l)y \vhi(;h a given quantity of air can be passed through an ab- 
sorbing substance, such as chloride of calcium, and the increase of 
weight accurately ascertained. It may, however, be readily shown that 
the amount is very small in still air. 

A wind from a more southern latitude will increase the moisture, and 
may give rise to fogs. Sometimes, from openings in the ice, vapor nniy 
be exhaled from water of a higher temperature than the air, and be 
immediately precipitated into fog. 

The inconvenience which is felt from the moisture which exhales with 
the breath in the hold of the vessel may, perhaps, be obviated by adopt- 
ing the ingenious expedient of one of the Arctic voyagers, viz, by 
making a number of holes through the deck and inverting over them a 
large metallic vessel like a pot. The exterior of this vessel being ex- 
posed to the low temperature of the air without would condense the 
moisture from within on its interior surface, and thus serve, on the 
principle of the diffusion of vapor, to desiccate the air below. 



374 EXPEDITION TOWAED THE NORTH POLE. 

The variation of moisture in tlie atmosphere performs a very im- 
portant part in all the meteorological changes. Its effects, however, 
are probably less marked in the Arctic regions than in more southern 
latitudes. The first effect of the introduction into the atmosphere of 
moisture is to expand the air and to diminish its weighty but after an 
equilibrium has taken place, it exists, as it were, as an independent 
atmosphere, and thus increases the pressure. These opposite effects 
render the phenomena exceedingly complex. 

Winds. — As to these the following observations are to be regularly 
and carefully registered, namely: The average velocity as indicated by 
Eobinson's anemometer; the hour at which any remarkable change 
takes place in their direction; the course of their veering; the exist- 
ence at the same time of currents in different directions as indicated 
by the clouds ; the time of beginning and ending of hot or cold winds, 
and the direction from which they come. Observations on the force 
and direction of the wind are very important. The form of the wind- 
vane should be that of which the feather part consists of two planes, 
forming between them an angle of about 10°. The sensibility of this 
instrument, provided its weight be not too much increased, is in pro- 
portion to the surface of the feather planes. Great care must be taken 
to enter the direction of the wind from the true meridian, whenever 
this can be obtained, and in all cases to indicate whether the entries 
refer to the true or magnetic north. Much uncertainty has arisen on 
account of the neglect of this precaution. 

In accordance with the results obtained by Professor Coffin, in his 
work on the resultant direction of the wind, there are in the northern 
hemisphere three systems roughly corresponding with the different 
zones, viz, the tropical, in which the resultant motion is toward the 
west, the temperate, toward the east, and the Arctic, in which it is 
again toward the west. 

In the discussion of all the observations the variation of the tempera- 
ture and tlie moisture will appear in their connection with the direction 
of the wind. Hence the importance of simultaneous observations on 
these elements, and also on the atmospheric pressure. 

Precipitation. — The expedition will be furnished with a number of 
rain-gauges, the contents of which should be measured after each shower. 
By inverting and pressing them downward into the siiow, and subse- 
quently ascertaining, by melting in the same vessel the amount of water 
produced, they will serve to give the precipitation of water in the form 
of snow. The depth of snow can be measured by an ordinary measuring- 
rod. ]Much difficulty, however, is sometimes experienced in obtaining 
the depth of snow on account of its drifting, and it is sometimes not 
easy to distinguish whether snow is actually falling or merel}' being 
driven by the wind. 

The character of the snow should be noted, whether it is in small 



EXPEDITION TOWARD THE NORTH POLE. . 375 

rounded masses, or in regular crystals; also the conditions under ^ybieb 
these difl'erent forms are produced. 

The form and weight of hailstones should be noted, whether consist- 
ing of alternate strata, the number of which is important, of flocculeut 
snow, or solid ice, or agglutinations of angular crystals, whether of a 
sphericril form, or that of an obhite spheroid. 

The color of the snow should be observed in order to detect any 
organism which it may contain, and also any sediment which may re- 
main after evaporation, whether of earthy or vegetable matter. 

Clouds. — The character of the clouds should be described, and the 
direction of motion of the lower and higher ones registered at the 
times prescribed for the other observations. Since the expedition is 
well supplied Avith photographic apparatus, frequent views of the 
clouds and of the general aspect of the sky should be taken. 

Aurora. — Every phase of the aurora borealis will of course be re- 
corded ; also the exact time of first appearance of the meteor, when it 
assumes the form of an arch or a corona, and when any important 
change in its general aspect takes place. The magnetic bearing of the 
crown of the arch, and its altitude at a given tune, should be taken ; 
also, if it moves to the south of the observer, the time when it passes 
the zenith should be noted. The time and position of a corona are 
very important. 

Two distinct arches have sometimes been seen co-existing — one in the 
east and the other in the west. In such an exhibition the position and 
crown of each arch should be determined. Drawings of the aurora, 
with colored crayons, are very desirable. In lower latitudes a dark 
segment is usually observed beneath the arch, the occurrence of which, 
and the degree of darkness, should be registered. It also sometimes 
happens that a sudden precipitation of moisture in the form of a hazi- 
ness is observed to cover the face of the sky during the shooting of the 
beams of the aurora. Any appearance of this kind is worthy of atten- 
tion. 

Wave motions are sometimes observed, and it would be interesting to 
note whether these are from east to west or in the contrary direction, 
and whether they have any relation to the direction of the wind at the 
time. The colors of the beams and the order of their changes may be 
important in forming a theory of the cause of the phenomena. Any 
similarity of appearance to the phenomena exhibited in Geissler's tubes 
should be noted, especially whether there is anything like stratification. 

The aurora should be frequently examined hy the spectrosco[)e, and 
the bright lines which may be seen carefully compared with one of 
Kirchofl's maps of the solar spectrum. 

To settle the (piestion as to the fluorescence of the aurora and its con- 
sequent connection with the electric discharge, a cone of light reflected 
from the silver-plated mirror should be thrown on a piece of white paper, 
on which characters have been traced with a brush dipped in sulphate 



376 . EXPEDITION TOWARD THE NORTH POLE. 

of quinine. By thus condensing tlie light on the paper, any flaores- 
cense which the ray may contain will be indicated by the appearance of 
the previously invisible characters in a green color. 

Careful observations should be made to ascertain whether the aurora 
ever appears over an expanse of thick ice, or only over land or open 
w^ater, ice being a non-conductor of electricity. 

The question whether the aurora is ever accompanied with a noise has 
often been agitated, but not yet apparently definitely settled. • Atten- 
tion should be given to this point, and perhaps the result may be 
rendered more definite by the use of two ear-Lrumpets, one a))plied to each 
ear. 

According to ITansteen, the aurora consists of luminous beams, par- 
allel to the dipping needle, which at the time of the formation of the 
corona are shooting up on all sides of the observer, and also the lower por- 
tions of these beams are generally invisible. It is, therefore, interesting 
to observe whether the auroral beams are ever interposed between the 
observer and a distant mountain or cloud, especially when looking 
either to the east or west. 

The effect of the aurora on the magnetism of the earth will be ob- 
served by abnormal motion of the magnetic instruments for observing 
the declination, inclination, and intensity. This effect, however, may 
be more strikingly exhibited by means of a galvanometer, inserted near 
one end of a long insulated wire extended in a straight line, the two 
extremities of which are connected with plates of metal plunged in the 
water, it may be through holes in the ice, or immediately connected 
with the ground. 

To ascertain whether the effect on the needle is due to an electrical 
current in the earth, or to an inductive action from without, perhaps the 
following variation of the preceding arrangement would serve to give 
some indication. Instead of terminating the wire in a plate of metal, 
plunged in the water, let each end be termiimted in a large metallic in- 
sulated surface, such, for example, as a large wooden disk, rounded at 
the edges and covered with tin-foil. If the action be purely inductive, 
the needle of the galvanometer inserted, say near one end of the wire, 
would probably indicate a momentary current in one direction, and an- 
other in the opposite, at the moment of the cessation of the action. For 
the purpose of carrying out this investigation the Smithsonian Institu- 
tion has furnished the expedition with two reels of covered wire, each a 
mile in length, one of which is to be stretched in the direction, perhaps, 
of the magnetic? meridian, and the other at right angles to it. It would 
be well, however, to observe the effect with the wires in various direc- 
tions, or united in one continuous length. 

Elcctriciiy. — From the small amount of moisture in the atmosphere, 
and the consequent insulating capacity of the latter, all disturbances of 
the electrical equilibrium will be seen in tlie frequent production of 
light and sparks on the friction and agitation pf all partially uon con- 



EXPEDITION TOWARD THE NORTH POLE. 377 

ducting' substances. Any unusual occurrences of this kind, such as 
electrical discharges from pointed rods, from the ends of spars, or from 
the fingers of the observer, should be recorded. 

A regular series of observations should be made on the character 
and intensity of the electricity of the atmosphere by means of an elec- 
trometer, furnished with a polished, insulated, metallic ball, several 
inches in diameter, and two piles of Deluc to indicate the character of 
the electricity, whether -f or — ; and also supplied with a scale to 
measure by the divergency of a needle the degree of intensity. This 
instrument can be used either to indicate the electricity of the air bj^ 
induction or by conduction. In the first case it is only necessary to 
elevate it above a normal i>lane by means of a flight of steps, say eight 
or ten feet, to touch the ball at this elevation and again to restore it to 
its first position, when it will be found charged with electricity of the 
same character as that of the air. Or the ball may be brought in con- 
tact with the lower end of an insulated metallic wire, to the uj)per end 
of which is attached a lighted piece of twisted paper which has been 
di'ied after previous saturation in a solution of nitrate of lead. 

Thunder-storms are rare in the Arctic regions, although they sometimes 
occur; and in this Case it is important to observe the point in the hori- 
zon in which the storm-cloud arises; also the direction of the wind dur- 
ing the passage of the storm over the place of the observer ; and also 
the character of the lightning — whether zigzag, ramified, or direct ; also 
its direction — whether from cloud to cloud, or from a cloud to the earth. 
Optical phenomena. — Mirage should always be noted, as it serves to 
indicate the position of strata of greater or less density, which may be 
produced by open water, as in the case of lateral mirage, or by a cur- 
rent of wind or warmer air along the surface. 

The polarization of the light of the sky can be observed by means of 
a polariscoi>e, consisting of a plate of tourmaline with a slice of Ice- 
land spar, or a crystal of niter cut at right angles to its optical axis, on 
the side farthest from the eye. With this simple instrument the fact 
of polarization is readily detected, as well as the plane in which it is 
exhibited. 

Halos, parhelia, corona?, luminous arches, and glories should all be 
noted, both as to time of appearance and any peculiarity of condition 
of the atmosphere. Some of these phenomena have been seen on the 
surface of the ice by the reflection of the sun's beams, from a surface 
on which crystals had been formed by the freezing of a fog simultane- 
ously with a similar appearance in the sky, the former being a continu- 
ation, as it W'Cre, and not a reflection of the latter. 

In the latitude of Washington, immediately after the sun has sunk 
below the western horizon, there frequently appear faint i)arallel bands 
of colors just above the eastern horizon, which may very possibly be 
due to the dispersion of the light by the convex form of the atmosphere, 
and also, at some times, slightly colored beams crossing the heavens 



378 EXPEDITION TOWARD THE NORTH POLE. 

like meridians, and converging to a point in the eastern horizon. Any 
appearance of this kind shoukl be carefully noted and described. 

Meteors. — Shooting-stars and meteors of all kinds should be observed 
with the spectroscope. The direction and length of their motion should 
be traced on star-maps, and especial attention should be given at 
the stated periods in August and November. A remarkable disturb- 
ance of the aurora has been seen during the passage of a meteor 
through its beams. Any phenomenon of this kind should be minutely 
described. 

Ozone. — The expedition is furnished with a quantity of ozone test 
paper, observations with which can only be rendered comparable by pro- 
jecting against the sensitized paper a given quantity of atmospheric 
air. For this purpose an aspirator should be nsed, which may be made 
by fastening together two small casks, one of whicli is filled with water,- 
with their axes parallel, by means of a piece of plank nailed across the 
heads, through the middle of which is passed an iron axis on which the 
two casks may be made to revolve, and the full cask may readily be 
placed above the empty, so that its contents may gradually descend 
into the latter. During the running of the water from the upper 
cask, an equal quantity of air is drawn through a small adjutage 
into a closed vessel, and made to impinge upon the test-paper. The 
vessel containing the test-paper should be united with the aspirator by 
means of an India-rubber tube. 

Miscellaneous. — The conduction of sound during still weather, through 
the air over the ice, through the ice itself, and through the water, may 
be studied. 

Evaporation of snow, ice, and water may be measured by a balance, 
of which the pan is of a given dimension. 

Experiments on the resistance of water to freezing in a confined space 
at a low temperature, may be made with small bomb-shells closed with 
screw-plugs of iron. The fact of the liquidity of the water at a very low 
temperature may be determined by the percussion of a small iron bullet, 
or by simply inverting the shell, when the ball, if the liquid remains 
unfrozen, will be found at the lowest point. It might be better, how- 
ever, to employ vessels of wrought iron especially prepared for the pur- 
pose, since tlie porosity of cast-iron is such that the water will be forced 
through the pores, e. g., the lower end of a gun-barrel, which, from the 
smallness of its diameter, will sustain an immense pressure, and through 
which the percussion of the inclosed bullet may be more readily heard. 
Water, in a thin metallic vessel, exposed on all sides to the cold, some- 
times gives rise to hollow crystals of a remarkable shape and size, pro- 
jecting above the level surface of the water, and exhibits phenomena 
worthy of study. 

Exi)erimeuts may be made on regelation, the plasticity of ice, the con- 
solidation of snow into ice, the expansion of ice, its. conducting power 
for heat, and the various forms of its crystallization. The eflect of in- 



EXPEDITION TOWARD THE NORTH POLE. 379 

tense cold slionld be studied on potassium, sodium, and otlier substances, 
esi)ecially in relation to tlieir oxidation. 

The melting point of mercury should be observed, particularly- as a 
means of correcting- the graduation of thermometers at low temperatures. 
The resistance to freezing of minute drops of mercury, as has been 
stated, should be tested. 

Facts long observed, when studied under new conditions, scarcely 
ever fail to yield new and interesting results. 

JosErn UenFvY. 

NATURAL HISTORY. 

Objects of natural history of all kinds should be collected, and in as 
large numbers as possible. For this purpose all on board the vessel, 
both officers and sailors, should be reijuired to collect, upon every favor- 
able opportunity, and to deliver the specimens obtained to those ap- 
pointed to have charge of them. 

Zoology. — Tlie terrestrial mammals of Greenland are pretty well known, 
but it is still desirable that a series, as complete as possible, of the skins 
should be preserved, great care being taken to always indicate upon the 
label to be attached the sex, and probable age, as well as the locality 
and date of capture. The skeleton, and, when it is not possible to get 
this complete, any detached bones, particularly the skull and attached 
cervical vertebrae, are very desirable. Interesting soft parts, especially 
the brain, and also embryos, are very important. If it should be con- 
sidered necessary to record measurements, they should be taken from 
specimens recently killed. 

Of walruses and seals, there should be collected as many skeletons as 
l^ossible, of old and young individuals; also skins, especially of the seals. 
Notes should be made regarding the habits in general, food, period of 
copulation, duration of gestation and time of migration, it being desira- 
ble to find out whether their migrations are periodical. 

Of the Cetacca, when these are too large to be taken on board the 
vessel, the skull and cervical vertebra), the bones of the extremities and 
penis, and whatever else may be deemed worthy of preservation, should 
be secured. All the animals should be examined for ecto and ento par- 
asites, and the means by which they become affixed to the animals 
noted. 

Collect carefully the species of Myodcs {IcmmingsJ Arctomys and Arri- 
cola, so as to determine the variations with locality and season. The 
relationship of two kinds of foxes, the blue and white, should be studied 
to determine their specific or other relationship. Any brown bears 
should be carefully collected, both skin and skeleton, to determine 
whether identical or not with the Old World Ursus arctos. 

Iieference has already been made to the seals and cetaceans ; of these 
the Flioca cristata, the white whale, f Beluga, J and the Monodod are par- 
ticularly desired. 



380 EXPEDITION TOWARD THE NORTH POLE. 

What lias been said in regard to the mammals will apply equally well 
to the birds, skins and skeletons being equally desirable. It is espe- 
cially important that the fresh colors of the bill, cere, gums, eyes, and feet 
or caruncles, or bare skin, if there be any, should be noted, as the colors 
of these parts all change after the preparation of a specimen. 

Of birds, the smaller land species are of the greatest interest, and com- 
plete series of them should be gathered. The northern range of the in- 
sectivorous species should be especially inquired into. The arctic falcons 
should be collected in all their varieties, to ascertain whether there are 
two forms, a brown and white, distinct through life, or whether one 
changes with age into the other. 

Inquiry should be directed to the occurrence of Bermcla Icucopsis, 
Anser ciuercus, or other large gray geese, and the Camptokcmus Lahra- 
dora, and'a large number of specimens, of the latter especially, should 
be obtained. Indeed the geese and ducks generally should form sub- 
jects of si)ecial examination. Among the Laridw the most important 
species is the Larus rossii or Ehodostethia rosea, scarcely known in col- 
lections. A large number of skius and of eggs will be a valuable ac- 
quisition. Larus churneus is also worthy of being collected. The AJcidce 
should be carefully examined for any new forms, and inquiries directed 
in regard to the AIca impcnnis. 

Of all birds' eggs an ample store should be gathered, and the skel- 
etons of the Arctic raptores and Xatatores generally. 

It will be a matter of much importance to ascertain what is the ex- 
treme northern range of the continental species of birds, and whether, 
in the highest latitudes, the European forms known to occur in Green- 
land cross BaflSn's Bay. 

Eggs and nests of birds, in as large numbers as possible, should be 
l)rocured, great care being taken, however, in all cases, to identify thetu 
by the parents, which may be shot, and some portion, if not all of them, 
preserved, if not recognized by the collector. All the eggs of one set 
should be marlced with the same number, that they may not be sepa- 
rated ; the parent bird, if collected, likewise receiving the same number. 
It should also be stated, if known, how long the eggs have been set 
upon, as incubation influeiioes very much their color; the situation of 
the nest also is very imi)ortant. Notes on the manner of nesting, local- 
ities selected, and other peculiarities of breeding, should be carefully 
kept ; whether they "are polygamous, whether there are struggles be- 
tween the males, and the manner in which the old birds feed their 
young; and w'hether these remain helpless in the nest for a given time, 
or whether they accompany the parents from birth. A journal of the 
arrival and departure of the migratory species should also be kept, to 
find out whether those which leave latest return earliest, and vice versa. 

Of fishes that are obtained, the best specimens should be photo- 
graphed, the fresh Qolors noted, and then they should be preserved in 
iilcohol or carbolic acid. • 



EXPEDITION TOWARD THE NORTH POLE. 381 

Among the fishes the Salmonidcv, Cottidcc, Gadldcc and Clu])eid(c, ^yill 
he of the most interest, and good series should be secured. 

The terrestrial inferior animals should be all collected, each class in 
its appropriate way. 

Try to get larva3 of insects, and observe tlieir life, whether they are 
■well adapted to their snrroundings; for in proportion to the insects are 
the number of insectivorous animals, and for that reason the straggle 
for life would be more energetic, and therefore only those insects which 
are best adapted to the conditions will snrvive. 

Inferior marine animals are usually collected b^' two methods, viz, 
with a pelagic net and by a dredge. Both these methods should be 
employed whenever practicable. Especial attention should be paid to 
the larviB, of which sketches should be made. The results of the dredg- 
ing should be noted in blanks printed for this purpose, the specimens 
to be preserved as their constitution requires. Muller's Liquor, glycer- 
ine, solution of alcohol and sugar, &c. 

It would be of peculiar interest to stady the several deep regions, 
admitted by Forbes and others, to ascertain if in the Arctic regions the 
intensity of color increases with the depth, as has been stated to be the 
case with red and violet, which, if true, would be just the contrary to 
what is observed in the temperate and tropical regions. 

Of shells two sets should be preserved, one dry and the other icith the 
animal, in alcohol 5 the dry shell is necessary- from the fact that the 
alcohol, bj' the acetic acid produced, is apt to» destroy the color. 

It is particularly important to get as full a series as possible of the 
members of the smaller fomilies, with a view to the preparation of mono- 
graphs. 

There should be paid as much attention as possible to the fauna of 
fresh-water lakes, to ascertain whether they contain marine forms, as 
has been found to be the case with some of those in North America, 
Scandinavia, Italy, and other countries. From this, important conclu- 
sions regarding the rising of the coast may be arrived at. 

Botany. — Plants are to be collected in two ways. Of each species 
some specimens should be put in alcohol to serve for studying the anat- 
omy; the others to be dried between sheets of blotting-paper. Tlie 
locality of each specimen should be noted, also its situation, the char- 
acter of the soil. and height above the sea, the season, aiul whether there 
is heJlotropismus, &c., &c. In the general notes there should be remarks 
on the horizontal and vertical distribution. 

S. F. Bated. 

GEOLOGY. 

The most important point in the collection of geological specimens — 
whether they consist of rocks, minerals, or fossils — is, that outbreaking 
or digging them from the matrix or bed, each individual specimen should 
be carefully wrapped separately in pliable but strong paper, with a label 



382 EXPEDITION TOWARD THE NORTH POLE. 

designating tlie exact locality from wliich it was obtained. If two or 
more beds of rock (sandstone, limestone, clay, marl, or otber material) 
occur at the locality from which specimens are taken, the label should 
also have a number on it corresponding to the particular bed in which 
it was found, as designated in a section made on the spot in a uote-book. 
This should be done in order that the specimens from each bed may be 
separated from those found iu others, whether the beds are separable 
by differences of composition, or by difierences in the groups of fossils 
found in each ; and it is, moreover, often important that this care should 
be observed, eveu when one or more of the beds are of inconsiderable 
thickness, if such beds are characterized by peculiar fossils. For in 
such cases it often happens that what may be a mere seam at one place 
may represent an important formation at another. 

Specimens taken directly from rocks iu place are, of course, usu- 
ally more instructive than those found loose ; but it often happens that 
much better specimens of fossils can be found already weathered out, 
and lying detached about an outcrop of hard rock, than can be 
broken from it. These can generally be referred to their place in the 
section noted at the locality, by adhering portions of the matrix, or from 
finding more or less perfect examples of the same species in the beds in 
place ; but it is usually the better plan to note ou the labels of such 
specimens that they were found loose, especially if there are any evi- 
dences that they may have been transported from some other locality 
by drift agencies. 

All exposures of rocks, and especially" those of limestone, should be 
carefully examined for fossils, for it often happens that hard limestones 
and other rocks that show no traces of organic remains ou the natural 
surfaces, (covered, as they often are, with lichens and mosses,) will be 
found to contain fossils when broken into. In cases where fossils are 
found to exist iu a hard rock, if time and other circumstances permit, 
it is desirable that it should be vigorously broken with a heavy hammer 
provided for that purpose, and as many specimens of the fossils as pos- 
sible (or as the means of transportation will permit) should be col- 
lected. 

Fossils from rocks of all ages will, of course, be interesting and in- 
structive, but it is particularly desirable that organic remains found in 
the later tertiary and quarternary formations of these high northern 
latitudes, if any such exist there, should be collected. These, whether of 
animals or i>lants, would throw much light on the question respecting 
the climatic conditions of the polar regions at, or just preceding, the 
advent of man. 

Specimens illustrating the lithological character of all the rocks ob- 
served in each district explored should also be collected, as well as of the 
organic remains found iu fossiliferous beds; also all kinds of minerals. 
Those of rocks and amorphous minerals should be trimmed to as nearly 
the same size and form as can conveniently be done — say 3 by 4 inches 



EXPEDITION TOWARD THE NORTH POLE. 383 

■wide and loug, and 1^ inches in thickness. Crystalline minerals ought, 
of course, to be brolvcn from the matrix, rather with the view of pre- 
serving the crystals as far as possible, than with regard to the size or 
form of the hand specimens ; and the same remark applies equally to 
fossils. 

On an overland journey the circumstances may not always be such as 
to allow the necessary time to wrap carefully and label specimens on the 
spot where they were collected ; but in such cases numbers or some other 
marks should be scratched with the point of a knife, or other hard- 
pointed instrument, on each, by means of which the specimens collected 
at different times and places during the march can be correctly sepa- 
rated, labeled, and wrapped when tlie party stops for rest. 

All specimens should be packed tightly in boxes as soon as enough 
have been collected to till a box, and a label should be attached to each 
box indicating the particular district of country in which the collections 
were obtained. For this purpose empty provision boxes or packages 
can generally be used. 

In examining sections or exposures of rocks along a shore or else- 
where, it is a good plan to make a rough sketch in a note-book, thus : 

Section 1. 



5 


Clay. 


8 feet. 


7 feet. 


12 feet. 




4 


Shale. 






3 


Clay. 




2 


Sandstouo. 


12 feet. 


1 


Limestone. 



10 feet. 



Then on the same or following pages, more i>articular descriptions of 
the nature and composition of the several beds should be written, re- 
ferring to each by its number. Sections of this kind should be num- 
bered 1, 2, 3, and so on, in the order in which they were observed, and 
thjB specimens from each bed ought also to be numbered on its label so 
as to correspond. That is, specimens from the lowest bed of the first 
section should be, for instance, marked thus: "Section No. 1, bed No. 
1," and so on. The name of the locality, however, should also, as 
already suggested, be written on the labels as a provision against the 
possible loss of note-books. 

It generally happens that an outcrop will show only a part of the 
beds of which it is composed, thus : 



384 EXPEDITION TOWARD THE NORTH POLE. 



5 


Unexposed. 


\^ 10 feet. 




8 feet. 




4 


Limestone. 




7 feet. 




3 


TJucxposed space. 




\ 




2 


Limestone. 


11 feet. 


1 


Sandstone. 



1.5 feet. 

Ill such a case the facts should be noted exactly as seeu, without any 
attempt to guess at the nature of the material that may fill the unex- 
posed i)laces; but, generally, by comparing difl'erent sections of this 
hiuil taken in the same region, the entire structure of a district may be 
made out. 

The dip and strike of strata should also be carefully observed and 
noted, as well as the occurrence of dikes or other outbursts of igneous 
rocks, and the effects of the latter on the contiguous strata. 

All evidences of the elevation or sinking of coasts should likewise be 
carefully observed and noted. 

Especial attention should be given to glacial phenomena of every 
kind, such as the formation, size, movem.ents, «S:c,, of existing glaciers, 
their abrading and other effects upon the subjacent rocks, tlieir forma- 
tion of moraines, &c. ; also, the formation, extent, and movements of 
icebergs, and their i)ower of transporting masses of rock, «S;c. 

At Cape Frazer, between latitude 50° north and longitude 70° west, 
Dr. Hayes found some upper silurian fossils in a hard gray limestone. 
This rock doubtless has a rather wide extension in the country referred 
to, as other explorers have brought silurian fossils from several localities 
farther southward and westward in this distant northern region. Should 
the party visit the locality from which Dr. Hayes collected his specimens, 
it is desirable that as complete a collection as possible should be ob- 
tained, as most of those found by Dr. Hayes were lost. 

For making geological observations, and collecting geological speci- 
mens, very few instruments are required. For determining the elevations 
of mountains, and the general aUitude of the country, a barometer is 
sufficiently accurate. For local elevations of less extent a pocket-level 
(Locke's) should be provided. Tape-lines are also useful for measuring 
vertical outcrops, and other purjjoses; and a good pocket-compass is 
indispensable. The latter should have a clinometer attached. 

A good supply of well -tempered cast-steel hammers should also be 
])rovi(led. They should be of various sizes and forms, and ought to be 
made with large enough eyes to receive stout handles, of which a good 
number, made of well-seasoned hickoiy, should be prepared. Chisels 
of different sizes should also be prepared of well-tempered steel. 

A pouch of leather or stout canvas, with a strap to i)ass over the 
shoulder, will be found useful to c<jrry specimens for short distances. 

• F. B. Meek. 



EXPEDITION TOWARD THE NOKTII POLE. 385 

GLACIERS. 

The progress of our knowledge of glaciers has disclosed two sides of 
the subject entirely discouuected with one another, and requiring dif- 
ferent means of investigation. The study of the structure of glaciers as 
they exist now, and the phenomena connected with their formation, 
maintenance, and movement, constitute now an extensive chapter in the 
physics of the globe. On the other hand, it has been ascertained that 
glaciers had a much wider range during an earlier but nevertheless 
comparatively recent geological period, and have produced during that 
period phenomena which, for a long time, were ascribed to other agencies. 
In any investigation of glaciers now-a-days, the student should keep in 
mind distinctly these two sides of the subject. He ought also to remem- 
ber at the outset what is now no longer a mooted point — that, at differ- 
ent times during the glacial x>ei'iod, the accumulations of ice covering 
larger or smaller areas of the earth's surface have had an ever-varying 
extension, and that whatever facts are observed, their value will be 
increased in i)roportiou as the chronological element is kept in view. 

From the x>hysical point of view, the Arctic expedition, under the 
command of Captain Hall, may render science great service should Dr. 
Bessels have an opportunity of comparing the present accumulations of 
ice in the Arctic regions with what is known of the glaciers of the Alps 
and other mountainous regions. In the Alps the glaciers are fed from 
troughs in the higher regions, in which snow accumulates during the 
whole year, but more largely during winter, and by a succession of 
changes is gradually transformed into harder and harder ice, moving 
down to lower regions where glaciers never could have been formed. 
The snow-like accumulations of the upper regions are the materials out 
of which the compact transparent brittle ice of the lower glaciers is 
made. Whatever snow falls uj^on the glaciers in their lower range 
during winter, melts away during summer, and the glacier is chieily fed 
from above and wastes away below. The water arising from the melt- 
ing of the snovf at the surface contributes only indirectly to the internal 
ecouomj" of the glacier. It Avould be superfluous here to rehearse what 
is known of the internal structure of glaciers and of their movement ; it 
may be found in any treatise on glaciers. Nor would it be of any avail to 
discuss the value of conflicting views concerning their motion. Suffice 
it to say that an Arctic exj^lorer maj^ add greatly to our knowledge by 
stating distinctly to what extent the winter snow, falling uj)on the sur- 
face of the great glacial fields of the Arctic, melts away during summer 
and leaves bare an old icy surface, covered with fragments of rock, sand, 
dust, &c. Such an inquiry will teach us in what way the great masses 
of ice which pour into the Arctic Ocean are formed, and how the supply 
that empties annuallj' into the Atlantic is replenished. If the winter 
snows do not melt entirely in the lower part of the Arctic glaciers during 
summer, these glaciers must exhibit a much more regular stratification 
than the Alpine glaciers, and the successive falls of snow must in them 
25 s 71 



38 S EXPEDITION TOWARD THE NORTH POLE. 

be indicated more distiuctly by layers of sand and dust tlian in those of 
the Alps by the dirt bands. Observations concerning the amount of 
waste of the glaciers by evaporation or melting, or what I have called 
ablation of the surface during a given time in different parts of the year, 
would also be of great interest as bearing upon the hygrometric con- 
dition of the atmosphere. A pole sunk sufficiently deep into the ice to 
withstand the effects of the wind could be used as a meter. But it 
ought to be sunk so deep that it will serve for a period of many months, 
and rise high enough not to be buried by a snow-storm. It should also 
be ascertained, if i^ossible, whether water oozes from below the glacier, 
or, in other words, whether the glacier is frozen to the ground or sepa- 
rated from it by a sheet of water. If practicable, a line of poles should 
be set out with reference to a rocky peak or any bare surface of rock, in 
order to determine the motion of the ice. It is a matter of deep interest 
with reference to questions connected with the former greater extension 
of glaciers, to know in what manner flat sheets of ice move on even 
ground, exhibiting no marked slope. It may be possible to ascertain, 
after a certain time, by the change of position of j)oles sunk in the ice, 
whether the motion follows the inequalities of the surface, or is deter- 
mined by the lay of the land and the exposure of the ice to the atmos- 
pheric agents, heat, moisture, wind, «S:c. It would be of great interest 
to ascertain whether there is any motion during the winter season, or 
whether motion takes place only during the period when water may 
trickle through the ice. The polished surfaces in the immediate vicinity 
of glacier ice exhibit such legible signs of the direction in which the 
ice moves, that wherever ledges of rocks are exposed the scratches and 
furrows upon their surface may serve as a sure register of its progress; 
but before taking this as evidence, it should, if possible, be ascertained 
that such surfaces actually belong to the area over which the adjoining 
ice moves during its expansion, leaving them bare in its retreat. 

The geological agency of glaciers will no doubt receive additional 
evidence from a careful examination of this point in the Arctic regions. 
A moving sheet of ice, stretching over a rocky surface, leaves such un- 
mistakable marks of its passage that rocky surfaces which have once 
been ylaciatcd, if I may thus express the peculiar action of ice upon 
rocks, viz, the planing, polishing, scratching, grooving, and furrowing 
of their surfaces, can never be mistaken for anything else, and may 
everywhere be recognized by a practiced eye. These marks, in connec- 
tion with transported loose materials, drift, and bowlders, are unmis- 
takable evidence of the great extension which glaciers once had. But 
here it is important to discriminate between two sets of facts, Avhich 
have generally been confounded. In the proximity of existing glaciers, 
these marks and these materials have a direct relation to the present 
sheet of ice near by. It is plain, for instance, that the polished surfaces 
about the Grimsel, and the loose materials lying between the glacier of 
the Aar and the Hospice, are the work of the glacier of the Aar when it 



EXPEDITION TOWARD THE NORTH POLE. 387 

extended beyond its j)resent limits, and step by step its greater exten- 
sion may be traced down to Meyringen, and, in connection with other 
glaciers from other valleys of the Bernese Oberland, it may be tracked 
as far as Thnn or Berne, when the relation to the Alps becomes compli- 
cated with features indicating that the whole valley of Switzerland, 
between the Alps and the Jura, was once occupied by ice. On the other 
hand, there are evident signs of the former presence of local glaciers in 
the Jura, as, for instance, on the Dent de Vaulion, which mark a later 
era in the history of glaciation in Switzerland. Now the traces ol the 
former existence of extensive sheets of ice over the continent of [North 
America are everywhere most plainly seen, but no one has yet under- 
taken to determine in what relation these glaciated surfaces of past ages 
stand to the ice-fields of the present day in the Arctics. The scieutitic 
men connected with Captain Hall's expedition would render science an 
important service if they could notice the trend and bearing of all the 
glacial scratches they may observe upon denudated surfaces wherever 
they land. It would be advisable for them, if possible, to break off 
fragments of such glaciated rocks and mark with an arrow their bear- 
ing. It would be equally important to notice how far the loose materials, 
j)ebbles, bowlders, &c., differ in their miueralogical character from the 
surface on which they re^^t, and to what extent they are themselves 
polished, rounded, scratched, or furrowed, and also what is the nature 
of the clay or sand which holds them together. It would be, particularly 
interesting to learn how far there are angular bowlders among these 
loose materials, and what is their position with reference to the com- 
pacted drift made up of rounded, polished, and scratched pebbles and 
bowlders. Should an opportunity occur of tracing the loose materials 
of any locality to some rock in situ, at a greater or less distance, and 
the nature of the materials should leave no doubt of their identity, this 
would afford an invaluable iiulication of the direction in which the loose 
materials have traveled. Any indication relating to the differences of 
level among such materials would add to the value of the observation. 
I have purposely avoided all theoreHcal considerations, and only called 
attention to the fiicts which it is most important to ascertain, in order 
to have a statement as unbiased as possible. 

L. Agassiz. 



ETHNOLOGY. 



INDIAN MOUNDS NEAR FOUT WADSWOUTM, DAKOTA TERRITORY. 

By a. J. Co:mfoi;t, 

Acting Assistant Si(rij<-on United i^tatcs Army. 

Indian nioands of the larger size were probably designed as ceme- 
teries. Tkey are located generally on a terrace, knoll, or elevation, at a 
convenient distance from tlie water. 

It bas been a custom of tlie American Indian, from time immemorial, 
to deposit the remains of tbe dead upon burial-scaffolds or suspend them 
from trees. At stated periods the bones were gathered together and 
interred. Among the Dakotas the custom has been, when a member of 
the tribe dies, after the autumnal leaves have fallen, to deposit the re- 
mains upon a scaffold, not to be removed until the leaves have unfolded 
in spring, and if a death occur after the leaf-buds have burst, the re- 
mains of the dead are likewise deposited, not to be removed until the 
leaves have fallen in autumn. When a member of the lodge of the 
" grand medicine" dies, the removal of tlie remains from the burial- 
scaffold, and their interment, is attended with a grand " medicine dance," 
and the initiation of a new member to fill the vacancy. 

A solitary mound, occupying an elevated i)osition upon the rolling 
prairie, near the eastern shore of a beautiful lake, was first selected for 
exploration. This site was chosen by the " mound-builders " evidently 
for its richness in those associations in which men in their primitive 
simplicity of customs especially delight. In every direction, except the 
west, as far as the eye can reach, lay stretched out the broad prairie 
of Dakota, upon which it was impossible for an enemy to lurk or a 
buffalo to range unperceived. By a gradual and almost uniform descent 
of a quarter of a mile, the largest of Kettle Lakes may be reached, 
abounding in fish and, at the appropriate season, water-fowl of the 
choicest variety, as game. Within a quarter of a mile of the shore is an 
island, about a mile in circumference, heavily timbered, the favorite re- 
sort of wood-ducks and cormorants during the period of incubation. 
Trees support the nests of the former in great numbers ; geese, brant, 
and swan are wont to feed here in autumn, on their journey southward. 
It seems but reasonable that an elevated site possessing such advan- 
tages for the living savage should be selected as the place of deposit for 
his bones, especially when we reflect that among the aborigines there 
was prevalent an almost universal belief in the existence of a spirit 
which had intrusted to its charge the guardianship of the remains of 
the dead; consequently, a spot the most eligible on account of the 



390 ETHNOLOGY. 

beauty of its scenery and the accessibility to game, imiwiUmt desiderata 
to the liviiifi:, \s'as deemed the most suitable for the hauuts of the 
si)irits of the dead. 

The mound selected for exploration, east of Kettle Lakes, for conven- 
ience of reference, is termed No. 1. Upon and around it for several 
feet were strewn human bones of every stage of development and of 
either sex. The external appearance of this ancient structure bore the 
most unmistakable evidence of the purpose for which it was intended — 
a receptacle for the remains of the dead; but from this purpose it had 
been perverted by the fox of the prairie, which had burrowed within it, 
removing bones and other obstacles in the way of constructing its lair. 

The form of this mound, like others of the class, was that of the frus- 
tum of a cone, the diameter of whose base measured fifty feet, that of 
its superior plane thirty feet ; the height of the latter was three feet. 

Almost covered with earth, I found a hornblende bowlder, of an 
irregular discoidal shape, divided into two unequal sections by a vein of 
granite three-quarters of an inch thick. This stone marked the center 
of the mound. I drew two lines in the direction of the cardinal points 
of the compass, quite across the mound, intersecting each other at this 
stone, and dividing the mound into four equal sections, which are desig- 
nated for convenience of reference as the northeast, southeast, north- 
west, and southwest, respectively. 

I commenced digging into the northeast and southeast sections, 
removing the earth, stratum by stratum, observing and noting objects 
of interest as they appeared. In the southeast section I found within 
eighteen inches of the surface two incomiilete skeletons lying upon their 
sides, lacing each other, their feet directed to the east, their heads 
within six inches of each other. One of these skeletons was that of a 
male, the other that of a female; though apparently of young persons, 
they were fully developed. The earth surrounding these was less 
compact than elsewhere found in the mound, was of a homogeneous 
character, of a dark color, and furnished no protection to the bones 
against moisture, from which I infer that the interment was intrusive, 
and made by a tribe occupying the country since the dispersion of the 
mound- builders. • 

The most southern portion of the southeast section of this mound 
was a locality of great interest ; it is designated in my invoice of con- 
tributions to the Museum as " locality A." 

While sinking an excavation to the depth of about four feet, the atten- 
tion of one of the party was attracted by the appearance of a small 
(juantity of black, dry^ pulverulent earth, which, being examined, was 
found to be in close proximity to some stone, between which an aper- 
ture was found large enough to receive the hand, but as fast as the hand 
was Avithdrawn the space was again filled with the same pulverulent 
dust. My impression was that the aperture communicated with the 
cavity of a vault, to obtain a view of which ^he surrounding earth was 



INDIAN MOUNDS NEAR FORT WADSWORTII, D, T. oOl 

removed ^Yitll .i^Teat care without disturbing the stones. Tiiis structure 
proved to be a work of rude masonry, three feet h^ug, eighteen inches 
wide, and tv.o and a half feet high, inclosing a rectangular si)ace. The 
stones used for this purpose were the undressed bowlders of the prairie, 
from eight to twelve inches in diameter, and were sustained in posi- 
tion by earth banked around the wall externally without the appearance 
of the use of lime or mortar. 

In this were found the imperfect skeletons of a female and child, whose 
attitude would indicate the relation of the former as that of mother or 
nurse to the latter. The posture of each was that of sitting — the mother 
upon the floor and the child upon her lap, supported by her right arm. 
Indian women, at the present da}-, in seating themselves draw their 
heels close to their nates and bring the knees quite close to the floor, 
either upon the right or left side ; such had been the disposition of the 
lower extremities of the mother interred by the mound-builders. The 
masonry had formed a support for the thorax of both mother and child, 
both of wiiom had been placed facing the east, the body of the child 
slightly inclined to the motlier. The cranium of the latter had fallen to 
the pelvis ; that of the former was resting procumbent upon the thorax. 
Amidst the black pulverulent dust with which the mound-builders were 
wont to surround the remains of their dead, upon the floor, within the 
cavity of the pelvis, and around it, I found a number of the bones of a 
fa^tus. The lower jaw was divided at its median symphysis ; a parietal 
bone, scarcely thicker than paper, had thrown out its osseous matter 
from the parietal protuberance in radiate lines; a humerus of not a 
finger's length, and proportionately slender and delicate, was picked up 
among other bones of this interesting locality. My Indian party having 
observed every object of interest with the closest attention, were able 
to distinguish human bones from those of animals and to designate 
their places in the skeleton. One of these, struck by the analogy of the 
fcetal bones to those of the adult, i)laced his hand upon his abdomen 
and exclaimed, '• Papoone cilc eistina,^^ (a very small infant.) 

Immediately behind the mason work above described, that is, to the 
west of it, was found a triangular space, in which was x)laced a luimber 
of bones, chiefly those of the upper and lower extremities, a few verte- 
brae and ribs, crania, «S:c. ; these had been apparently thrown in promiscu- 
ously, as if from disarticulated limbs ; those of the upper and lower 
extremities in a state of extreme tlexion, probably with a view to econo- 
mize space, as though the sole object had been to preserve the bones from 
destruction and remove them from sight. The relative i)ositiou of the 
parts would indicate that no trunk was entire; in one place was deposited 
the pelvis and lower extremities, without the small bones of the feet, 
in another, the lower extremities without the pelvis; in another, the 
thorax and part of the spinal column ; in another, the thorax and upper 
extremities ; here a right arm had been deposited, having been severed 
from the trunk at the shoulder-joint ; there a left lower extremity with 



392 ETHNOLOGY. 

tbe bones of tlie pelvis. I can only account for this separation of parts 
on the supposition that, in most instances, the remains had been gath- 
ered in for interment from burial-scaffokls a fter many months of exposure, 
especially since the small bones of the hands and feet in almost every 
instance were wanting. No implements of any kind were found in this 
locality and no bones of aninmls except the skull of a beaver. The earth 
in part of this mound had not been disturbed by the inroads of animals; 
although this skull was in close proximity to a collection of human bones. 
At the time, and for months after, I was unable to account for the 
presence of the skull of this rodent in a human sepulchre. Upon careful 
examination of this object of interest I perceived that the foramen mag- 
Dum had been enlarged, its margin having been broken away by an 
agency directed by more intelligence than the lower animals possess. 
The object, of course, had been to extract the brain, but why extract the 
brain from the skull of a beaver for deposit with the remains of the 
dead ? No satisfactory answer to these inquiries suggested itself to me 
until by accident I obtained a bag of an ex-member of the " grand medi- 
cine lodge f this consisted of the skin of a beaver, the claws and skull 
remaining attached, the i)osterior walls of the latter having been re- 
moved with the soft parts. The skull in question, then, was, in my 
opinion, the undecomposed part of a medicine-bag. 

The bones in the triangular space, like the skeletons of the mother 
and child, were surrounded by a layer of dark pulverulent carbonaceous 
earth, constituting a stratum of the mound, one foot in thickness, sur- 
mounted by a layer of undressed bowlders, placed in as close proximity 
as possible without cement or mortar. The superincumbent earth re- 
moved from the layer of stones, its sides measured five, seven, and nine 
feet respectively, and running in the direction in the order of the above 
numbers, .starting from the work of masonry as the southeastern angle, 
west of north, south of east, and due south to the point of starting. 
The floor of the mound, which constituted the floor of the triangle, was 
composed of clay of a wonderful cohesive property, and so compact that 
it could only be broken with violent blows of the pick. It had the 
appearance of having been baked, and yet there were no cracks in it as 
one would expect to see, produced by shrinking during the process of 
drying; it was quite smooth and level and bore the appearance of hav- 
ing been flnished prior to drying with a coating of clay in a plastic state, 
and smoothed with the hand or some rude substitute for a trowel. While 
the exploration of this mound was being prosecuted I was present in 
person, and when an object of interest was found my attention was 
immediately called to it. The earth was removed from it with great 
care, in order that its position might not be disturbed ; if it was sur- 
rounded with a pulverulent earth, it was brushed away with a wisp of 
prairie-grass or a very fine brush-broom ; if the earth was compact, it 
was carefully cut away with a knife, and the object chiseled out. Sin- 
gular as it may seem, onl^^ the southeast section of this mound con- 



INDIAN MOUNDS NEAR FORT WADSWORTH, D. T. 393 

taiiietl any bones or other objects of interest worthy of note ; the earth 
was removed from the remaining three sections within the circumference 
of the superior phme of the mound perpendicuhirly down to the floor, 
and the margin beyond, though not wholly removed, w^as examined in 
several places. The work tlius far completed, I directed several excava- 
tions, about three feet in circumference and as many deep, to be made, for 
the purpose of ascertaining tlie deeper structure of the mound. In every 
instance the material i^roved to be one homogeneous mass of dry, com- 
pact clay. In one of three excavations a few feet to tlie south of the 
masonry, and about a foot and a luilf below the floor, was found a cranium, 
which, on other bones of the same skeleton being exposed to view without 
their relations being disturbed, proved to be of an aged man. Few of 
these bones, chiefly those of the hands and feet, were wanting; the i)os- 
ture was that of sitting, with the body inclining forward and face directed 
to the east. I have seen Indians in council, or absorbed in earnest 
thought, assume a posture not unlike the one here represented. The 
thorax had been slightly compressed by the superimposed mass of earth. 
On the cranium and tibia I observed several small bony tumors of an 
almost pearly whiteness and great hardness, the largest about the size 
and shape of a half of a pea. These tumors which are called in surgery 
exostoses, are most generally the result of syphilis, though they may be 
attributed to other causes. A fine specimen of united fracture of one of 
the femurs was obtained from this skeleton, showing, from the amount of 
shortening, the obliquity of the axis of the fragments, and the ill-adjust- 
ment of the fractured ends, how much these people stood in need of 
surgical skill. 

The interment in the triangular space must have been a contemporary 
act with that of the construction of the mound, so also, in all probability, 
that within the work of masonry, while the burial of the aged man 
'beneath the mound floor, unsurrouuded with pulverulent carbonaceous 
earth, must have a date anterior to its construction. These facts are 
predicated upon the observation of the undisturbed condition of the 
superior strata of clay and black surface-mold of which the mound was 
composed. The habits of nomadic and uncivilized races afford them but 
limited facilities for preparing their food; their viands are usually broiled 
upon the live coals and eaten with the adherent ashes. Trituration being 
l)erformed almost entirely by the teeth, these importantorgans of diges- 
tion are worn down to a common level at an early age. The tubercles 
of the molars, the points of the cuspids, and the cutting edge of the 
incisors are worn down by attrition to the level of one common plane. The 
teeth of the mound-builders difter not the least in this particular from 
that of modern American Indians who still adhere to their nomadic life. 

Hampsonh group of mounds. — On a knoll or elevation from fifty to one 
hundred feet above the water level, and sloping gradually to it at a 
distance of a quarter of a mile, is situated an interesting group of ten 
monnds, which for several years have borne the name of Hampsou's 



394 ETHNOLOGY. 

Mouuds, iu liouor of Major Hampsou of the Tenth United States Infan- 
try, the present commander of the post. 

Of this number two are i^articularly cons})ieuous, being nearly double 
the height of the rest iiud situated between them and the brow of the 
knoll ; each is in form of the frustum of a cone, the usual shape of mounds 
in this vicinity. The measurement of the first is as follows : diameter 
of base fifty-five feet, diameter of superior plane thirty-five feet, perpen- 
dicular height, measured on one side, four feet, and six feet on the other ; 
this diflerence is owing to the ground on which it is located sloping 
slightly to the lake. The measurement of the second mound is as follows : 
diameter of base fifty feet ; diameter of superior plane, twenty feet ; 
height of superior plane, five feet. 

Years ago animals have made inroads into the first of these mounds, 
carrying out fragments of human bones; their burrows now, however, 
are caved in, destroying its otherwise symmetrical appearance. The 
second mound Avas explored by me; all that portion of the mound being 
removed perpendicularly beneath the superior plane. In its center were 
found three imperfect skeletons whose crania were lying near together. 
They had evidently been buried with their feet in the direction of three 
cardinal points of the compass, one to the east, one to the north, the 
third to the west, two upon their sides, the third upon its back. A flat 
stone had formed a pillow for the three. Surrounding the bones was a 
stratum of black pulverulent carbonaceous earth, whose thickness was 
twelve inches ; this was not different from the same found in Mound Xo. 
1, and iu every sepulchral mound subsequently explored. I found in two 
or three spots of this layer an impalpable buff-colored powder, evidently 
the remains of some decomposed wood used in interment. Some distance 
from these skeletons, and a foot above them, was found a single craniuu^ 
lying upon its side, beneath a few spinous processes of the vertebra of 
a buffalo. Uere and there, in the upper stratum of the mound, I found 
the skulls of the musk-rat, skunk, prairie-wolf, and other small animals, 
without the other bones of the carcass ; these had been most probably 
attached to medicine-bags. The structure of this mound was essen- 
tially the same as that of all the sepulcliral mounds explored by me, 
except Ncf. 1, and consisted of four strata. The first or uppermost layer 
was three feet thick, and was composed of a black, moist, adhesive vege- 
table mold, not differing much from the surface-soil of the prairie exce])t 
that it was a little darker in color, contained a little more moisture, and 
was more adherent to the shovel. The second layer was a foot thick, 
and consisted of a bla(;k, dry, pulverulent carbonaceous matter, in wliich 
human bones are usually lound. The third layer was also a foot thick, 
and consisted of a siliceous loam. The fourth layer was a concrete com- 
posed of gravel and lime, and varied in thickness, as was required to 
malce the upper surface quite horizontal. The two last layers had ])roba- 
bly been dried in the sun and afterward burned. 

On a line running nearly east and west, and about sixty feet further 



INDIAN MOUNDS NEAR FORT WADSWORTil, D. T. o*J5 

from the lake, nearly ])arallel Avitli the one joining the center of the 
principal monnds, are sitnated eight mounds smaller in dimensions and 
less conspicuous in appearance. One of these, whose diameter Avas 
twenty-five leet at base and fifteen feet at its superior i:)lane, and whose 
perpendicular height was two feet, I opened at the same time of explor- 
ing the one previously described ; it proved to be, unlike No. 2, destitute 
of strata, but composed of one homogeneous mass of surface-soil. At 
the depth of two feet was a stratum of clay three inches thick, very hard 
and compact. On this stratum, at its center, Avere found charcoal and 
ashes, but no bones. 

I could explain this structure only on the supposition that a circular 
hut had once Ix^en located there, with a clay fioor, with a fire-place in its 
center. Around the sides of the hut the earth had been banked, and when 
abandoned by its inmates the perishable portion had been removed, or, 
remaining undisturbed, had decomposed; the embankments had settled 
both internally and externally, and the center of the habitation had filled 
up to the common level of its sides. That a circular earth-walled hut, of 
suitable dimensions, will assume the form of a frustum of a cone is 
shown by the group of small mounds which a few years ago might be 
seen near Saint Paul, where the once celebrated Black Dog's village 
stood. The remains of such huts I propose to (i'All domiciliary tuniidi, iu. 
contradistinction to those of a larger size, with four characteristic strata, 
constructed for the purpose of interment. 

The third mound of this group had a diameter of forty feet at base ; 
that of its superior plane was fifteen feet, and its perpendicular height 
was two and a half feet. This mound showed a want of regularity in 
the circumference of its superior plane and that of its base, as Avell as 
the slope of its sides, and apparently- had been the remains of a hut 
whose form had been a rectangle, Avith earth banked around its sides 
several feet high. The perishable part had been removed ; its embank- 
ments settled, both externally and internally, and its central portion, 
though slightly depressed or cup-shaped, had nearly filled to the com- 
mon level of its sides. A few inches below the surface 1 found the bones 
of the thorax, with upper extremities, in situ, as when interred, the ex- 
ternal surface of the sternum directed upward, and to the east the 
cervical vertebriie, not a foot below the surface. The axis of the thorax 
inclined to the horizon at an angle of about forty degrees ; the bones of 
the lower extremities were entirely wanting. This mound was also des- 
titute of the four characteristic strata Avhich I found in Mound No. 2 
and others afterward examined, from which it may be inferred that the 
burial was intrusive and by a more recent tribe, and that the mound 
was one of the domiciliary class. A stratum of clay, four inches thick, 
constituted the floor. Beneatli the Hoor was found the skull and thigh- 
bones of an aged man. These bones among civilized men have emblem- 
atic significance. Can it be for a like reason the savages had deposited 
them in a place as secure as possible? The rennuning mounds in this 



396 ETHNOLOGY. 

iiiteiestiiig group, from location, size, aud general appearance, may be 
regarded as of the domiciliary class, and tliey vary in dimensions, their 
bases being in diameter from twenty to thirty-live feet, their superior 
planes being from fifteen to twenty-five feet, the height of the latter 
from one to two feet ; they are located in a line at distances of from 
thirty to sixty feet apart. 

On the west side of Kettle Lakes, about a mile and a half distant 
from the post, is a group of three mounds whose dimensions are as fol- 
lows : diameter of base, sixty feet ; diameter of superior plane, forty 
feet; height of superior plane, three feet. 

In one of these the recent interment of the remains of an Indian 
child had taken place ; another of these I explored, removing all the 
earth found perpendicularly beneath the superior ])lane. The mound 
proved to belong to the sepulchral class, and was composed of the four 
characteristic strata as were found elsewhere, viz, first, a stratum of 
surface-soil two feet thick ; second, a stratum of dry pulverulent car- 
bonaceous matter one foot in thickness; third, a stratum of siliceous 
loam, bearing evidence of exposure to high heat, very dry and compact ; 
fourth, a stratum of concrete one foot thick composed of clay contain- 
ing a slight admixture of lime; both of these latter strata appear to 
have been subjected to a high degree of heat, being very dry and com- 
pact in structure, and so great is the cohesiveness of the particles that 
it requires smart blows of the pick to remove them. The shovel or 
spade makes no more impression upon the strata than upon a closely 
cemented pavement of bricks. 

It would seem that the third and fourth layers of the mound had been 
leveled off singly, and an enormous pile of wood had been burned upon 
each for the purpose of baking it, and the ashes had been gathered up 
and sifted to remove the charcoal. An excavation ten or twelve inches 
deep, three feet in circumference, had been made in the third layer of 
this mound, in which had been deposited the bones above mentioned. 
The sides and bottom bear the impressions of a pointed instrument, not 
unlike those made by a pick. The implement used probably was a 
sharpened stake, such as I have seen the Dakotas use in spring to dig 
tijhsinna, or Dakota turnips. The bones found here had been divested 
of their soft parts and were piled in very compact cross-layers ; they 
were as follows, none of them perfect, however, viz : two inferior maxil- 
lary bones, a number of fragments of a cranium, a luimber of frag- 
ments of a ])elvis, six femora, four tibiae, four fibuhie, three ulnte, two 
radii, and one sciipula. I also obtained about a ]>eek of fragments of 
decayed wood, which had scarcely enough cohesiveness existing to 
enable it to retain its form, and yet the bark remained adherent. 
Each stick nuist have been five feet long and three inches thick. The 
wood was found between the first and second layer, surmounted by a 
number of large undressed bowlders in immediate proximity to it. It 
bears no mark of implements upon it. except thi^t it has been split, and 



INDIAN MOUNDS NEAR FORT WADSWORTH, D. T. 307 

most of it ai)pears by its rings of annular growth to be the part of a 
trunk of a hirge tree. 

I presume it is of a species of oak still growing in this yicinity in the 
ravines and places protected by their water surroundings from prairie 
lire. As a general rule, the mound-builders were wont to cover with 
wood or stone that portion of the second layer immediately enveloping 
the bones. 

On a ridge, elevated ten or fifteen feet above the surface of the lakes, 
and within one-half of a mile from the post, and a few hundred feet 
from the water, is a group of eight mounds, whose dimensions are as fol- 
lows : diameter of base, sixty feet ; diameter of superior plane, forty-five 
or fifty feet ; height of superior i»lane above the surface of the prairie im- 
mediately surrounding it, three feet. I explored one of this group and 
found its structure to be identical with the last described, that is, to 
be composed of four characteristic strata, the latter two bearing evidence 
of exposure to high heat. This mound, and apparently the whole group, 
had evidently been constructed for sepulchral purposes; a slight ex- 
cavation had been made in the fourth layer to receive the bones 
which were as follows : four inferior maxillary, fourteen vertebra^, nine 
scapulae, nine humeri, nine ribs, nine ulute, ten osste inuomiuatne, fifteen 
femora, thirteen, tibice, and eight fibuloe. These were arranged in cross- 
layers, so as to occupy the least possible amount of space, and within a 
compass of three feet. They had been divested of their soft parts jirior 
to interment, as Avas evident from their relative position. The radius 
was invariably found without the ulna to match, the tibia without the 
fibula. The ends of bones which would have been in proximity, if not 
disarticulated, were never found so ; neither the head of the humerus 
nor the head of the femur was ever found in its socket. A number of 
the bones found here had been gnawed bj' mice or prairie-gophers. 

On the south side of the post, and within one or two hundred feet of the 
sally-port, is a sepulchral mound, the diameter of whose base is be- 
tween forty-five and fifty feet, that of its superior plane thirty and forty ; 
the height of the superior plane, above the surface of the immediately 
surrounding prairie, is about two and a half feet. On the road to Fort 
Abercrombie, about a mile and a half from the post, npon a ridge aris- 
ing about forty feet above the surface of the adjacent lakes, of which 
there is one on either side, is situated a group of seven mounds, all of 
which may be regarde<l as of the sepulchral class, and do not differ in 
size and appearance from those i)reviously described. 

Three miles from Fort Wadsworth, in a direction a little east of north, 
upon a hill sixty feet above the surface of an adjacejit lake, and sloping 
quite to its water's edge, is a group of seven mounds, two of which belong- 
to the sepulchral class. The dimensions of one of these are as follows : 
diameter of base, sixty feet ; diameter of superior plane, fifteen feet; 
height of superior ijlane, above the sloping hill-side, on which the 
mound is situated, from four to eight feet. These mounds sustain the 



398 ETHNOLOGY. 

same relative positiou to each other as those of Hampsou's group, viz: 
two near the brow of the hill, with the remaining six in a line nearly 
parallel to one joining their centers. The six are about a hundred and 
fifty feet farther from the lake, and, judging from size and appearance, 
belong to the domiciliary class; they vary from thirty to forty feet in 
diameter at base, and are about sixty feet apart, and may be regarded 
in a line as nearly straight as Indians are wont to construct their huts. 

On a strip of land adjoining the fort on the west, and between two 
lakes, are situated ten or twelve mounds. Upon a ridge, one-quarter of a 
mile in length, at various distances from each other, seven of them are 
located ; the others occupy knolls which, from their elevation and prox- 
imity to water, seemed to the builders to furnish the most eligible sites. 

The flag-staff of this post was planted in an Indian mound, occupying 
the center of the parade, and human bones were thrown out during the 
process of excavation. Another mound formerly stood in front of one 
of the barracks. Both now are leveled off and the locality overgrown 
with grass. 

MOUNDS, POKTIFICATIONS, ETC., FOUND IN OTHER VICmiTIES. 

There is an interesting group of mounds on the north shore of White 
Bear Lake, near Glenwood, Pope County, Minnesota. 

On a terrace arising by a gradual slope from the former bed of a river, 
and near the residence of the present Indian agent, is situated an inter- 
esting group of Indian mounds, two of which, from size and appear- 
ance, may be regarded as of the sepulchral class. 

Mounds occurring both in groups and solitary may be seen on knolls 
at various distances from each other, on the shores of Lake Traverse, 
one of which is known to contain human bones, and is surrounded on 
every side except one by Indian fortifications; this side is protected 
from attack by the lake, from whose waters the bank arises almost per- 
pendicularly. 

About eighty miles from Fort Wadsworth, on the road to Fort Steven- 
son, is a hill of natural formation about thirty feet in height, some- 
what conical in shape, bearing in the Dakota language the name of 
Ilu-hu Pa-ha, (Bone IlilLJ The sides of this hill arc paved with bones, 
of a certain kind, obtained from the legs of buftaloes. Walks leading 
in different directions to the distance of several hundred feet are paved 
with the same bones placed end to end and two courses in width. • The 
hill commands an extensive range of vision, and has been used by the 
Clieyennes as a point of observation. 

Indian fortifications resembling rifle-pits are said to be found, first, 
near this post; second, near Lake Traverse, a short distance from the 
residence of Major Brown ; third, on the Yellow Medicine, near where 



INDIAN MOUNDS NEAK FORT WADS WORTH, D. T. 399 

the "upper agency" formerly stood. Arrow-heads, muscle-sliells, and 
occasionally implements of bone and stone were formerly found in this 
locality. 

Indian pottery, in addition to being found at this post, is said to be 
found also on the Coteau du Prairie, about thirty miles from this post. 

On a granite rock situated upon a hill about a mile or two distant 
from the residence of Major Brown are to be seen what is called Wa-lcui- 
yan Owe^ (the track of thunder^) and regarded by the Indians as a super- 
natural phenomenon. Two tracks of a bird, as they regard them, are 
impressed upon the rock, each having three anterior toes and one pos- 
terior. The tracks are about sis inches long, each line representing a 
toe, not more than one-eighth of an inch wide ; their origin is clearly 
artificial and may be explained on the snpposition that centuries ago, 
with a piece of flint, some member of the Cheyenne jSTation has exercised 
his talents in engraving the tracks of a bird, in which a calcareous 
concretion of a diiferent color from the original rock has since been 
deposited. 

To an elevation or knoll, from forty to sixty feet high, one-quarter 
of a mile in diameter, arising almost perpendicularly from the sonth- 
ern shore of one of Kettle Lakes, and sloping gradually in every 
direction into an erosion valley, I have applied the Dakota name of 
Cega lyeyapi, (Chaga Eyayiipee,) a name by whicli Fort Wadsworth 
and the surrounding country is familiarly known to the Indians. The 
term signifies in their language the place where " they found the kettle." 
The knoll has, probably, been for a long period the favorite camping- 
ground of the aborigines. The valley has at one time been a wide and 
deep ditch, communicating with one of Kettle Lakes and some adjoining 
sloughs, converting the hill into an island, admirably fortified by nature 
for defense. On the summit of this knoll was an artificial mound 
whose base was one hundred feet in diameter, and th-e i)erpendicular 
height of its superior plane, above the surface of the prairie, imme- 
diately surrounding it, was from one foot and a half to two feet. The 
demarkation O'f the circumference of the base of the mound is somewhat 
indistinct. At various distances from the surface to the depth of four 
feet were found alternate strata of clay, and what appears to be a dark 
vegetable mold, such as is found on the prairie elsewhere. The strata 
of clay are each about three inches thick, very hard and dry, and con- 
tain in their composition a slight admixture of lime, forming a sort of 
concrete. It would appear from this arrangement of a series of concrete 
floors that this locality, so admirably situated for defense, has been the 
favorite camping-ground of one band of aborigines after another, each 
renovating the locality of the former occupants by covering it with a layer 
of soil from eight to twelve inches thick, and covering the whole with a 
new concrete floor. On these floors I found the bones of birds, lish, and 
various edible animals. The lowest floor is about four feet deep, and is 
upon the natural clay soil ; in this I found a number of hearths, formed by 



400 ETHNOLOGY. 

digging' an excavation about a foot deep, and three and a half or four 
feet in diameter. Upon these were found a quantity of ashes and charred 
bones, the remains of the feasts of men, and a number of stones from 
three to six inches in diameter, bearing evidence of exposure to a high 
degree of heat, and having probably been used for the purpose of boil- 
ing water. The granitic sand entering into the composition of the pot- 
tery may have been obtained from this source. Intermixed with the 
soil at various depths I found fragments of pottery of different sizes and 
patterns. The under surface or most dependent portion of each is in- 
crusted with a white calcareous matter, deposited, no doubt, from the 
leachings of the soil. The sherds were evidently from, some vessels 
no larger than a small jar or goblet, and from others whose capacity 
must have been four or five gallons. The color is either that of a cream 
or Milwaukee brick color, such as clay destitute of ir;»n assumes when 
burned, or a dim or slate color of various shades ; indeed, in some in- 
stances it is almost blade. The recently fractured edges of some of the 
pieces show a uniformity in color throughout the whole thickness 5 others 
are of a cream-color one-third of the thickness upon either surface, with 
a slate-colored streak running through the middle. One of these colors 
may be seen on the inside of a sherd with its opposite on the outside, and 
vice versa. I can detect no pigmentary matter upon either surface, and 
am of opinion that whatever has been used, whether for ornament or 
service, though probably the latter, has been imparted to the mass of 
clay prior to molding or baking, and by use has disappeared from the 
surface, the center retaining it; for while I find no black sherds whose 
fractures show a cream-colored substance within, the converse is true. 
The black sherds are the least brittle. The thickness of these shersd 
varies from an eighth to three-eighths of an inch, according to the size 
of the vessel, though few exceed one-fourth. Sand has been the only 
substance used to give stiffness to the mass during the process of mold- 
ing and prevent the ware from cracking while burning, and has probably 
been obtained from disintegrated stones, some of which were found on 
the hearths elsewhere spoken of. I have been able to find no whole ves- 
sels, but from the fragments of the rims, sides, and bottoms, it is not 
difficult to form a fair conception of their shape, which, for aboriginal 
art, was wonderfully symmetrical, gradually widening from its neck or 
more constricted portion of the vessel until it attains its greatest diame- 
ter, at a distance of one-third of the height from the bottom, which 
is analogous, in curvature, to the crystal of a watch. To the neck is 
attached the rim, about one inch in width, though sometimes two ; this 
slopes outward at angle of about twenty degrees from a perpendicular. 
Of some of the smaller vessels the rim stands perpendicularly upon an 
offset resting upon the neck. Some patterns have no rim, but a mere 
lip arises from the neck of the vessel, the whole distance of its circum- 
ference, serving as a hand-hold to lift it by. Some small vessels had 
neither rims nor lips, their shape being sphei^cal. I found no pieces 



INDIAN MOUNDS NEAR FORT WADS WORTH, D. T. 401 

coutaiuing ears or bandies, tboiigli an Indian informant tells me that 
small vessels were supplied witli ears. 

That the aboriginal potters of the lacustrine village of Cega lyeyapi 
were fond of decoration, and practiced it in the ceramic art, is shown 
by the tracings confined to the rims, which, consist of very smooth 
lines about one-twentieth of an inch in width, and as deep, drawn quite 
around the vessels, parallel to the margin. These are sometimes crossed 
by zigzag lines, terminating at the neck of the vessel and the margin 
of the rim. Lines drawn obliquely across the rim of the vessel, and 
returning so as to form the letter " V," with others parallel to the mar- 
gin of the rim, joining its sides, the same repeated as often as space 
admits, constitute the only tracings on some vessels. The inside of the 
vessels is invariably plain. 

That the ancient potters failed in the delineatory art, as modern In- 
dians do, may readily be inferred, since no object of nature, such as a 
tree, a i^lant, a flower, or bird, has been attempted in their tracings. 

To the art of glazing the aborigines seem to have been entire stran- 
gers, but they have rendered their ware durable and impervious to 
moisture, by thoroughly incorporating throughout its substance a black 
pigment, which may be driven off by heating the sherds to redness in 
the bright coals of a common wood-fire. Fragments thus treated assume 
a yellowish color, and become very porous and brittle. 

The neck of the vessels, as well as the rim, shows one uniform curv- 
ature, that of a circle, as if molded within a hoop, and is free from 
those twists and wari)s sometimes seen in biscuit and common clay 
ware manufactured by the whites. The outside of the vessels proper, 
exclusive of the rim — which is traced — bears the impression of very 
evenly-twisted cords running in a parallel direction and closely crowded 
together, the alternate swelling and dei)ression of whose strands have 
left equidistant indentations in every line thus impressed. These lines 
run, on the sides of the vessels, in a direction i)erpeudicular to the rim, 
and disappear within a half of an inch or an inch of it, each indenta- 
tion becoming indistinct near the end. I have counted from ten to fif- 
teen of these casts in the space of a linear inch, and yet some of the 
sherds represent much finer cords. I find no casts of woven fabric, as 
of cloth or basket-work, and yet I have seen diamond ( <^) figures formed 
near the bottom of the vessel, by the crossing of different layers ot 
cords. A willow or rush fabric could not form such casts ; the inside 
bark of a tree i)ossibly might, but the sinews of the buffalo, such as 
bow-strings are made of, were most probably used. It would seem, 
then, tliat a sack or basket, formed by securing twisted cords, properlj^ 
adjusted to a hoop, furnished the molds in which the aboriginal potters 
shaped and dried their vessels, the external surface of which is a cast 
of the cords composing the sack. 

Earthen vessels were in use by the Dakotas during the childhood of 
men still living. I have interrogated separately, and on different occa- 
26 s 71 



402 ETHNOLOGY. 

sions, the principal and most reliable men of the Sissiton and Wahpeton 
tribes, all of whom tell the same story of having seen earthen kettles for 
culinary purposes in use by their parents. They state, however, tha£ the 
Dakotas never made pottery ; but in this, Carver, a traveler who spent 
a winter among them more than a hundred years ago, contradicts 
them. Some say it w^as brought from the Missouri, having been pur- 
chased from the Omahas, others that the Pawnees made it ; others that 
they obtained it as booty from the Mandans, with whom they were con- 
stantly at war. In corroboration of this statement, Catlin gives an ad- 
mii-able account of seeing Mandan women make and use pottery when 
in the country of that nation, in 1832. That the Mandans, a tribe now 
residing with the Eees, in i^ermanent lodges, near Fort Bufort, and sub- 
sisting i)artly by agriculture, once possessed the territory around Kettle 
Lakes, and hence made the pottery, is probable, from the faet that the 
deepest hearths in the site of the excavation are such as the Mandans 
construct at the present day. The Cheyennes, about one hundred years 
since, were dispossessed of the soil by the Dakotas, and the country 
named Cega lyeyapi, as previously stated. The legend of the latter 
tribe ascribed to the former the authorship of the artificial tumuli in 
this vicinity. 



ANTIQUITIES ON THE CACHE LA POUDRE KIVER, WELD COUNTY, COLOIIVDO 

TERRITORY. 

By Edward S. Berthoud. 

During a casual walk taken by me in July, 18C7, along the cretaceous 
bluffs which extend on Cache La Poudre Eiver for several miles, and 
while searchiag for some strata containing fossil-shells of that epoch, 
my attention was drawn to the beds of gravel and small bowlders which 
appear to crown tbe blufts and higher slopes. This gravel contains both 
sedimentary and igneous rocks, is evidently of recent origin, and was 
lu'obably deposited long since the cretaceous period. We find here not 
only rolled pebbles of quartz, felspathic and micaceous granite horn- 
blende rock, sandstone, and ferruginous quartz-rock, but also con- 
glomerate of an older period, both common and moss agates, varie- 
gated sandstone, &c., with sometimes a pebble of hard limestone. 

While continuing my examination and searching for moss-agates, I 
found several small accumulations of agate-chips half buried in the soil, 
or composing a pavement in spots laid bare by the industry of numerous 
colonies of ants, who seem to be amateurs of all small gay-colored or 
bright pebbles with which to construct their nests. These chippings 
appearing in numerous places excited my curiosity, until both myself 
and companions found in one place two or three arrow-heads made from 
the coarse agates found there, as well as the oval stone tool which I send 
with the arrow-head, stone teeth for war-club or saw, and some broken 



ANTIQUITIES OF NEW MEXICO. 403 

points spoiled in finisbiug. It tbiis appeared evident to me that here 
must have been either a casual manufactory of such offensive or defen- 
sive weapons, or that an okl settlement had once here existed. Continu- 
ing my search and narrowly examining the ground for a large extent, I 
found numerous small circles of stones which, although more than half 
covered with soil and sod, still showed unmistakable signs of design and 
use. The stones were fire- stained, and frequently fell to pieces, the top 
coarser when exposed, covered with a tough yellowish-green moss, but 
frequently so much buried and fixed in the soil and debris, that they 
were diflBcult to trace out, and all marked a^iparently with great anti- 
quity. These vestiges are found over an extent of several acres, and 
present an appearance of continued occupations. Indeed, one of the 
arrow-heads has incrusted upon it a sort of calcareous or siliceous cement 
similar to that found on the large pebbles and bowlders of the gravel 
formation, and everywhere near them we find flakes and chippings of 
agate similar to those noticed in England, France, and our Eastern 
States, and with the arrow-heads of identical pattern of those found 
from Maine to Georgia, or in our western mounds, the traces of a by- 
gone race who once roamed here before its present Indian population. 
In future, we expect to continue these examinations and see if we can 
find vestiges of other larger circles. 



ANTIQUITIES IN NEW MEXICO. 

By W. B. Lyon. 

Fort McEae, New Mexico, March 28, 1871. 

I returned a week ago from a visit to the old pueblo referred tjo in a 
previous letter, although the limited time allowed did not permit me to 
make any minute explorations of the antiquities. I inclose herewith a 
ground-plan which is in the main correct. 

The pueblo is situated nearly due west and twenty-five miles distant 
from the town of Socorro, on the Kio Grande. In no place were the 
walls left over two feet in height, and judging from their character and 
the amount of debris, I do not think any j)ortion of the building or 
buildings exceeded one story in height. The material is a soft, 
coarse-grained sandstone, laid up without mortar or cement, none of the 
stones being over three inches in thickness. No remains of beams or 
timber of any kind were found. The walls are eighteen inches in 
thickness. Numerous fragments of colored pottery — not differing, 
however, from that now made by the Pueblo Indians — were picked up. 
In the south end of the court are two circular excavations, respectively 
forty-seven and twenty-five yards in circumference, and each about ten 
feet in depth. In the centre of the larger one I found, on digging, the 
top of a circular stone wall, five feet in diameter. My time did not 
permit me to make further explorations. 



404 ETHNOLOGY. 

The pueblo occupies a point of land projecting into the valley, and 
elevated twenty-five or thirty feet above the bottom. The position 
seems to ha%e been chosen more for its defensive advantages than for 
convenience. There is a fine spring about one hundred yards to the 
west, the water disapiiearing almost immediately after its exit. 

Extensive silver mines have recently been discovered in the imme- 
diate vicinity, and a town has been laid out near the spring. The mi- 
ners propose to use the stone from the pueblo for building purposes, 
but promise to preserve any utensils, or anything of interest they may 
find, for the Smithsonian. Some of the ore found in these mines is 
very rich. I think an average ton of the rock will yield over $100. 
Evidences of ancient working of these mines exist in shafts entirely 
filled up with earth. One of these, on a lode containing a large pro- 
portion of copper, has been dug out to the depth of eighteen feet. 

Although in close proximity to several cedar-trees, no very large roots 
penetrate it, and from this circumstance, as well as the extremely hard 
quality of the wall-rock, I do not believe that the time of working the 
shaft antedates the occupation of the country by the Spaniards. The 
ore is very refractory, and can be worked here only by amalgamation. 

A gentleman who has just returned from a trading expedition to the 
Little Colorado informs me that he discovered, near that stream, a re- 
markable fortification, or series of six forts, built of solid masonry, uni- 
ted with cement, each provided with bastion, ditch, etc., and containing 
in the center a reservoir for water. They occupy the extremity of high 
necks of land jutting into the valley, and extend for a mile and a half 
along its course. In the bottom he found the ruins of towns built of 
iulobes, and traces of large irrigating ditches. 

The gentleman brought back with him one very slightly mutilated 
*'oifa," or jar, of curious workmanship, which he i)romised to give me 
for transmission to the Smithsonian. 



ANTIQUITIES IN LENOIR COUNTY, NORTH CAROLINA. 

• By J. Masok Sp.vinuouk. 

In a conversation with Mr. Michaux, of Burke County, North Carolina, 
on Indian curiosities, he informed me that there was an Indian mound 
on his farm, which was formerly of considerable height, but had gradu- 
ally been plowed down ; that several mounds in the neighborhood had 
been excavated, and nothing of interest found in them. I asked per- 
mission to examine this mound, which was granted, and upon investi- 
gation the following interesting tacts were revealed. Upon reaching 
the place I sharpened a stick four or five feet in length, and ran it down 
in the earth at several places, and finally struck a stone about eighteen 
inches below the surface, which, upon digging down, was found to be 
about eighteen inches long and sixteen inches* wide, and from two to 



ANTIQUITIES IN LENOIR COUNTY, NORTH CAROLINA. 405 

three iuclies iu thickness, the coruers rounded. It rested ou solid earth 
and had been smoothed ou top. 

I theu made an excavation in the south of the mouud, and soon struck 
another stone, which upon examination proved to be in front of the 
remains of a human skeleton in a sitting posture; the bones of the fin- 
gers of the right hand had been resting on the stone. Near the hand 
was a small stone about five inches long, resembling a tomahawk or 
Indian hatchet. Upon a further examination, many of the bones were 
found, though in a very decomposed condition, and upon exposure to 
the air they soon crumbled to pieces. The heads of the bones, a consid- 
erable portion of the skull, jaw-bones, teeth, neck -bones, and the ver- 
tebra were in their i)roper places. Though the weight of the earth 
above them had driven them down, yet the frame was perfect, and the 
bones ©f the head were slightly inclined toward the east. Around the 
neck were found coarse beads that seemed to be of some substance 
resembling chalk. A small lumj) of red paint, about the size of an egg, 
was found near the right side of this skeleton. From my knowledge of 
anatomy, the sutures of the skull would indicate the subject to have 
been twenty-five or twenty -eight years of age. The toi) of the skull 
was about twelve inches below the mark of the plow. 

I made a further excavation in the west part of this mound and found 
another skeleton similar to the first, in a sitting posture, facing the last. 
A stone was on the right, on which the right hand had been resting, 
and on this was a tomahawk which had been about seven inches in 
length, broken into two pieces, and much better finished than the first. 
Beads were also on the neck of this one, but were much smaller and of 
finer quality than those on the neck of the first; the material, however, 
seemed to be the same. A much larger amount of paint was found by 
the side of this than the first. The bones indicated a person of larger 
frame, and I think of about fifty years of age. Everything about this 
one had the appearance of superiority over the first. The top of the 
skull was about six inches below the mark of the plow. 

I continued the examination, and after diligent search found nothing 
at the north part of the mound but ou reaching the east side found 
another skeleton in the same posture as the others, facing the west. Ou 
the right side of this was a stone on which the right hand had been rest- 
ing, and on the stone was also a tomahawk about eiglit inches in length, 
broken into three i)ieces, much smoother and of finer material than the 
others. Beads were also found on the neck of this, but much smaller and 
finer than on those of the others, as well as a large amount of paint. 
The bones w^ould indicate a person of forty years of age ; the top of the 
skull had been moved by the plow. 

There was no appearance of hair discovered ; besides, the i)rincipal 
bones were almost entirely decomposed, and erumbled when handled ; 
these two circumstances, coupled- with the fact that the farm on which. 
this mound was found was the first settled in that county, the date of the 



406 ETHNOLOGY. 

first deed nmuing back about one hundred and fifty years, (the land still 
belonging to descendants of the same family that first occupied it,) would 
prove beyond doubt that it is very old. 

The mound was situated due east and west, in size about nine by six 
feet, the line being distinctly marked by difference in color of the soil. 
It was dug in rich black loam, and filled with white or yellow sand, but 
contiguous to the skeleton was a dark-colored earth, and so decidedly 
different was this from all surrounding in quality and smell, that the 
lines of the bodies could be readily traced. The decomposed earth, 
which had been flesh, was similar in odor to that of clotted blood, aud 
would adhere in lumps when Cv^mpressed in the hands. 



AICOINT OF THE OLD INDIAN VILLAGE KUSIIKISIIKES, NEAR NEWCASTLE, 

PENNSYLVANIA. 

By E. M. McConnell. 

This Indian village was on the Mahoning Eiver, on the south side 
of the present town of Edinburgh, about five miles west of the city of 
Newcastle, Pennsylvania. It was located on the second bank, on the 
west side of the river, with a range of high hills to the west, forming 
an excellent protection from storms. The distance from the base of 
the hills on the west to the river is about one-third of a mile, making 
a beautiful valley of several miles both north and south. Christian 
Frederic Post, a Moravian, was sent on a mission to the Indians at this 
place by General Forbes, in 1758. He says this village at that time 
"contained ninety houses and two hundred able warriors." Post, 
whose business it was, induced the chief, Pakankee, to attend a great 
conference to be held opposite Port Duquesne, now Pittsburgh. 
This is the earliest knowledge we have of Kushkushkee. 

Twelve years later, 1770, at the request of Pakankee, the Moravians 
removed from their settlement at Lawunakhannak on the Allegheny 
liiver, and settled on the Beaver Eiver, five miles south of Newcastle, 
where they remained for two years, instructing the Indians in the prin- 
ciples of the Christian religion, establishing schools, and introducing 
agricultural ])ursuits, &c. During this time they luul intercourse with 
Indians at Kushkushkee, many of whom became converts to Christi- 
anity, among the number Glikkikan, a distinguished orator of the Del- 
aware tribe. 

In company with D. Craig, esq., and 11. W. Clendenin, I visited the 
site of this ancient village the past summer to examine carefully its 
location and surroundings, and learn what I could of the race who 
inhabited it more than a hundred years ago. When I visited this 
place, some years ago, the sepulchral mound was in an almost perfect 
state of preservation, but at this time we found that three-fourths of 
it had been leveled to the grade of the field surrounding it, which, we 



THE PIMA INDIANS OF ARIZONA. 407 

were informed, bad been done by the owner of the land, with the ex- 
pectation of finding some hidden treasure. It is a source of regret to 
those of us who value these traces of former occupation of our soil 
that they had not been sacredly protected and preserved. The mound 
was originally about fifty feet in circumference, and six feet high in the 
center. We found one human skeleton that had been left exposed, 
many of the bones being in a perfect state of preservation. This grave 
had been made on the surface of the ground. Flag-stones broken to 
the required width had been set on their edges around the body, uniform 
in height, and covered with flat stones, and then with earth 5 other 
bodies had been placed alongside in the same manner, and also on the 
top of those first interred, and in this way after many years forming the 
mound as we find it. A few rods south of the mound are about twenty 
graves of bodies buried separately, the ground over each grave showing 
a depression of a bout six inches, with a piece of flat stone set at the 
head and foot of each grave. This may have been adopted under the 
influence of the teachings of the Moravians as a more Christian form of 
burial. In examining a field of ten acres or more near the mound, -we 
found a great quantity of flint chippings that had been broken off in 
making implements, large numbers of which have been gathered up 
here since the settlement of this valley by the whites. 

Mr. James Park, who has lived here for almost seventy years, gave 
me a stone implement somewhat of the shape and size of a carpenter's 
hatchet, made of the blue-gray stone common in this neighborhood. I 
have others much the shape and size of wedges used for splitting stone. 



THE PIMA INDIANS OF ARIZONA. 

By Captaix F. E. Grossmann, U. S. A. 

Their histoey and traditions. — The Pimas have but vague ideas 
of the doings of their forefathers, and whatever accounts may have been 
handed down to them have been so changed in the transmission that 
they cannot be deemed reliable now. Their account of the creation of 
the world is confused, different parties giving different details thereof. 
The story most generally accepted among them is that the first of all 
created beings was a spider, which spun a large web, out of which, in 
process of time, the world was formed. They believe that the Supreme 
Being or Creator took a nerve out of his neck and thereof made a man 
and a woman. According to their traditions, the first human beings 
lived near the Salt Eiver, in Arizona Territory, near the McDowell 
Mountain. These people multiplied rapidly, and soon populated the 
valleys of the Salt and Gila Eivers. There appears to be a strong prob- 
ability that the Pima and Papago Indians, who speak the same lan- 
guage, and to all intents belong to the same nation, are the descendants 
of the earliest occupants of this section of the country. Still the ac- 



408 ETHNOLOGY. 

counts of the two above-named tribes differ materially in many essen- 
tial points of their early history. Both seem to have heard of a great 
tlood, and each have their own method of explaining how their fore- 
lathers were saved from this deluge. 

The Pimas relate that the coming of the flood was vrell known to the 
eagles, for these birds, soaring among the clouds, saw the gathering of 
the storm. One of the eagles, friendly disposed toward the Pimas, ap- 
peared to the principal prophet of the tribe, and warned him of the ap- 
proaching disaster, advising him to prepare for it. At the same time a 
cunning wolf (coyote) conveyed the same caution to another prophet. 
The former and his followers paid no attention to the counsels of the 
eagle; while the other prophet, knowing the wolf to be a sagacious ani- 
mal, at once prepared a boat for himself and made provisions to take 
Avith him all kinds of animals then known. The Papagos claim to be 
the descendants of the more cautious one, the Pimas of the one who re- 
fused to be guided by tlie eagle. This bird appeared for the second 
time and repeated his caution, but the Pimas scorned his advice. At 
last the eagle came for the third time, violently flapped his wings at the 
door of the hut of the principal prophet, and with a shrill cry announced 
to him and his people that the flood was at hand, and then flew scream- 
ing away. Suddenly the winds arose and the rains descended in tor- 
rents, thunder and lightning were terrific, and darkness covered the 
world. Everything on earth was destroyed by this flood, and all the 
Pimas perished except one chief, named So'-ho, a good and brave Indian, 
who was saved by a special interposition in his favor by the Great 
Spirit. 

The prophet who listened to and profited by the caution of the wolf, 
entered his boat, which safely rode through the storm and landed, when 
the flood subsided, upon the mountain of Santa Eosa. The wolf also 
escaped by crawling into a large hollow cane, the ends of which he 
closed with some resinous substance. The Papagos of to-day believe 
that the prophet who saved himself by means of the boat was their fore- 
father, and yearly visit the mountain and village of Santa Eosa, in Ari- 
zona Territory, in commemoration of the fortunate escape of the founder 
of their race. It is also said that a Papago will not kill a wolf. The 
Pimas, however, claim to be the direct descendants of the chief So'-ho, 
above mentioned. The children of So'-ho re-inhabited the Gila Eiver 
Valley, and soon the people became numerous. One of the direct de- 
scendants of So'-ho, King Si'-va-no, erected the Casas Grandes on the 
Gila Eiver. Here he governed a large empire, before— long before— the 
Spaniards were known. King Si'-va-no was very rich and powerful, and 
had many wives, who were known for their personal beauty and their 
gi\-at skill in making ])ottery ware and ki'-hos, (baskets which the 
women carry upon their heads and backs.) The subjects of king Si'-va- 
no lived in a large city near the Casas Grandes, and cultivated the soil 
for manv miles around. They dug immense canals, which carried the 



THE PIMA INDIANS OF ARIZONA. 409 

water of the Gila Eiver to their fields, and also produced abuiidaut crops. 
Their women were \ irtuons and industrious ; they spun the native cot- 
ton into garments, made beautiful baskets of the bark of trees, and were 
particularly skilled in the manufacture of earthen ware. (Remains of 
the old canals can be seen to this day, and x>ieces of neatly-painted 
pottery ware are scattered for miles upon the site of the old city. There 
are several ruins of ancient buildings here, the best i)reserved one of 
which is said to have been the residence of King Si'-va-no. This house 
has been at least four stories high, for even now three stories remain in 
good preservation, and a i^ortion of the fourth can be seen. The house 
was built square 5 each story contains five rooms, one in the 
center, and a room on each of the outer sides of the inner 
room. This house has been built solidly of clay and cement 5 
not of adobes, but by successive thick layers of mortar, 



and it was plastered so well that most of the plastering remains to this 
day, although it must have been exposed to the weather for many years. 
The roof and the different ceiliugs have long since fallen, and only short 
pieces of timber remain in the walls to indicate the place where the 
rafters were inserted. These rafters are of pine wood, and since there 
is no kind of pine growing now within less than fifty miles of the Casas 
Grandes, this house must either have been built at a time when pine 
timber could be procured near the building site, or else the builders 
must have had facilities to transport heavy logs for long distances. It 
is certain that the house was built before the Pimas knew the use of 
iron, for many stone hatchets have been found in the ruins, and the 
ends of the lintels over doors and w indows show by their hacked ap- 
pearance that only blunt tools w^ere used. It also appears that the 
builders were without trowels, for the marks of the fingers of the work- 
men or women are i^lainly visible both in the plastering and in the 
walls where the former has fallen off. The rooms were about six feet in 
height, the doors are very narrow and only four feet high, round holes, 
about eight inches in diameter, answered for windows. Only one en- 
trance from the outside was left by the builders, and some of the outer 
rooms even had no communication with the room in the center. There 
are no stairs, and it is believed that the Pimas entered the house from 
above by means of ladders, as the Zuni Indians still do. The walls are 
l^erfectly perpendicular and all angles square.) 

The empire of King Si'-va-no became so populous after a while that 
some of its inhabitants found it necessary to emigrate. One of the sons 
of the king, with numerous followers, went, therefore, to the Salt Eiver 
Valley, and there established a new empire, which, in course of time, 
became very prosperous. Indeed, the inhabitants became so wealthy 
that they wore jewelry and jirecious stones upon their persons, and 
finally erected a beautiful throne for the use of their monarch. This 
throne was manufactured entirely of large blue stones, (probably silver 
or copper ore.) 



410 ETHNOLOGY. 

In course of time a womau ascended this throne, She was very beau- 
tiful, and many of the warriors adored her, but she refused all offers of 
marriage, and seemed to be fond of no one except a pet eagle which 
lived in her house. The rejected suitors, jealous of the eagle, deter- 
mined to kill him, but he, a wise bird, discovered their intentions, said 
farewell to his mistress, and flew away toward the rising of the sun, 
threatening destruction to those who had contemplated to take his life. 

At the death of the queen, who married after the departure of the 
eagle, the government of the nation fell to her son, who was but a child 
in years, and weak and incapable. During the reign of this boy the 
eagle returned, conducting the Spaniards to his former home. These 
came, well armed and some mounted on horses, which before this time 
had been unknown to the Pimas. 

The Spaniards approached in three strong columns ; one marched 
down the Gila Eiver, one came from the north, and the third one from 
the south. These armies of strange white men terrified the Pimas, who, 
without competent leader and good arms, were soon defeated. The 
enemy devastated the whole country, killed most of the inhabitants, 
and leveled their fine buildings to the ground. The throne of the king 
was broken into small pieces, and the birds of the air came and swal- 
lowed the small blue stones, which, afterward, they spit out wherever 
they happened to be. This, say the Pimas, accounts for the fact that 
these blue stones are found but rarely and in very difierent localities 
now. (Stones of this kind are highly prized by the Pimas, and worn as 
charms.) But few of the Pimas escaped the general massacre, and hid 
themselves in the neighboring mountains, whence they returned to the 
valley after the departure of the Spaniards. They found all their wealth 
destroyed, their towns in ruins, their fields devastated, their friends and 
relatives slain or carried off by the enemy, and the survivors were in 
despair. Some few, hoping to be able to liberate some of their kindred 
who had been captured, followed the white men toward the south and 
finally settled in Sonora, where their descendants live to this day. The 
others remained in the Salt Eiver Valley, increased in numbers, and 
again tilled the soil. But the Apaches, always bitter enemies of the 
Pimas, took advantage of the situation, and encroached upon their fields 
to such an extent that the Pimas finally returned to the Gila Eiver Val- 
ley, where they still live. They never reerected the stately mansions 
of their forefathers, but, humbled by defeat, were content to live in the 
lowly huts which are occupied by the Pimas of the present day. Their 
women were virtuous and strong, and in the lapse of time numerous 
children were born ; the tribe increased in numbers, and, not many years 
after their defeat by the Spaniards, the Pimas were strong enough to 
cope with the Apaches, against whom they have carried on a bitter war- 
fare ever since. At one time they were very poor indeed. Owing to 
the poverty of the tribe, their leaders never returned to the luxurious 
style of living of the former kings. They wei;^ simply called " chiefs," 



THE PIMA INDIANS OF ARIZONA. 411 

but the supreme control of the tribe was still iu the hands of the old 
royal family, aud descended from father to sou. These head-chiefs were 
brave warriors, and under their leadership the Pimas achieved many 
victories. At one time the Comanche Indians came from the east, but 
the Pimas repulsed them after a bloody battle, which was fought near 
the present mail-station Sacaton. At last the reign descended to Shou- 
tarl-Kor'-li, (old soldier,) the last, in a direet line, of the old royal house. 
He was a bold warrior, and highly esteemed by the whole tribe. Dur- 
ing his reign the Maricopa Indians, imi)osed upon and persecuted by 
the Yumas and Mohaves, came to the country of the Pimas in two dif- 
ferent parties, one from the southwest and the other from the north- 
west. The new-comers asked a home and protection, promising to aid 
the Pimas in their scouts against the Apaches. Their request was 
granted, and when the Yumas, who had given pursuit to the Mari- 
copas, appeared near the country of the Pimas, the latter turned out 
in force, and, united with the Maiicopas, defeated the Ynmasin a battle 
fought near the j)resent Maricopa Wells. Since then the Yumas have 
not dared to molest the Maricopas. The latter remained with the 
Pimas, were permitted to cultivate a small i^ortion of their land, and 
have been ever since, on friendly terms with them. The Maricopas of 
to-day have two villages on the reservation, and number three hundred 
and eighty-two. The Pimas have intermarried with the Maricopas ; 
still the latter preserve tlieir own language, which is that of the Yumas, 
Cocopas, and Mohaves. At last Shon-tarl-Kor'-li, the chief, was fatalh' 
wounded by the Apaches, receiving a musket-ball in his forehead. 
Upon his death-bed this old chief, who had no sons to succeed him, recom- 
mended that Stjo'-e-teck-e-uuis. one of the sub-chiefs, who was a renowned 
warrior, should be elected head chief. This was done, and Stjo'-e-teck-e- 
mus, who was the father of the present head-chief, reigned for years, re- 
spected and beloved by all his tribe. Young Antonio Azul, or A-va-at-K<i- 
jo, (the man who lifts his leg,) as he is called by the Pimas, accompanied 
his father, the chief, on all his scouts when he became old enough to use 
arms, and at one time went with him to Sonora and visited some of the 
Mexican towns. Stjo'-e-teck-e-miis led the Pimas many times against 
the Apaches, was repeatedly wounded, but finally died in consequence 
of sickness. Upon his death Antonio Azul assumed the position of his 
father, but dissension arose in the tribe. Many claimed that Antonio 
had no title to the supreme command ; that his father had been chosen 
chief on account of his boldness and wisdom ; that these virtues did 
not necessarily descend from father to son, and that the choice of a new 
chief ought to be left to the warriors of the tribe. Some asserted that a 
distant relative of the chief proper was among the tribe, who, having 
the royal blood in his veins, ought to govern. 

Arispa, a petty chief, well known for his bravery in the field, and 
withal a crafty and unscrupulous man, took advantage of the general 
confusion, and, with the intention of usurping Antonio's place, accused 



412 ETHNOLOGY. 

the latter of witchcraft. Antonio was tried and declared not guilty, 
and since then has been generally recognized as head-chief. Still the 
followers of Arispa, who are the worst Indians on the reservation, refuse 
to be guided by Antonio, and the latter evidently believes his position 
to be insecure, and therefore temporizes with the bad men of the tribe 
rather than run the risk of a revolution and possible loss of his rank 
by compelling them to behave themselves. Of course the Indians know 
him thoroughly, and take advantage of his weakness. 

Since Antonio Azul has become the head-chief of the tribe the over- 
land road from Texas to California, which passes through the Pima 
land, has been established, and in consequence thereof these Indians 
have been thrown in contact with the Americans. In 1859 a reserva- 
tion, containing one hundred square miles, was set aside for tbem by 
act of Congress, and upon and near it they have resided ever since. 
Eight years ago the small-pox raged among them to an alarming extent, 
and many, particularly children, died of this disease. 

It is a lamentable fact that the Pimas have retrograded since the 
advent of the white men among them, both morally and physically. 
Fifteen years ago, when Butterfield's mail-coaches first passed through 
their land, the Pimas were a healthy race, the men brave and honest, 
the women chaste. To-day foul diseases prevail to an alarming extent, 
many of the women are public prostitutes, and all will pilfer whenever 
opportunity offers. 

Religion. — The Pimas believe in the existence of a Supreme Being 
or Creator, whom they call " Prophet of the Earth," and also in an evil 
spirit, (che-4-vurl.) They believe that, generally, their spirits will pass 
to another world when they die, and that there they will meet those 
who have gone before them. They say that whenever any one dies an owl 
carries the soul of the departed away, and hence they fear owls, (which 
they never kill,) and they consider the hooting of this bird a sure omen 
that some one is about to die. They give a confused account of some 
priests, (p4r-le,) who, they state, visited their country years ago and 
attempted to convert them to Christianity. These priests were French, 
and to this day the Pimas call the French " p4r-le-sick ; " plural, " p4-par- 
le-sick." It does not appear that these missionaries met with success. 
The Pimas have no form of worship whatever, and have neither idols nor 
images. They know that the Mexicans baptize their childreu, and some- 
times imitate this ceremony. This baptism is applied, however, only 
as a charm, and in cases of extreme sickness of the child. When the 
ceremonies and charms of the native physicians (ma-ke) fail to produce 
a cure, then the sick infant is taken to some American or Mexican, and 
even Papago when he is known to have embraced the Christian faith. 
Generally Mexican women perform the ceremony. If the child recovers 
it receives a Spanish name, by which it is known ever after ; but these 
names are so much changed in pronunciation that strangers would hardly 
recognize them. Pedro, for instance, becomes Pi-va-lo ; Emanuel, M^ 



THE PIMA INDIANS OF ARIZONA. 413 

norl ; Cristobal, Kis-to ; lijnazio, I'-iias ; Maria, Mar-le, etc. It is cer- 
tain that their religion does not teach them morality, nor does it point 
out a certain mode of conduct. Each Pima, if he troubles himself about 
his religion, construes it to suit himself, and all care little or nothing 
for the life hereafter, for their creed neither i^romises rewards in the 
future for a life well spent, nor does it threaten punishment after death 
to those who in this life act badly. They have no priest to counsel 
them, and the influence of their chiefs is insufficient to restrain those who 
are evil-disposed. The whole nation lives but for to-day, never thinks 
of the wants of the future, and is guided solely by desires and passions. 
They believe in witches and ghosts, and their doctors (ma-ke) claim to 
know how to find and destroy witches. Almost anything is believed to 
be a witch. Usually it is a small piece of wood, to which is tied a piece 
of red flannel, cloth, or calico by means of a horse-hair. Should one of 
these be found in or near one of the Pima huts, the inhabitants thereof 
would at once abandon it and move elsewhere. They believe that all 
sickness, death, and misfortunes are caused by witches. If, therefore, a 
Pima is taken sick, or loses his horse or cow, he sends for one of the 
medicine-men, whose duty it becomes to find and destroy the evil spirit 
who has caused the mischief. The medicine-man on these occasions 
masks his face and disguises himself as much as i)ossible. He then 
swiftly runs around the spot supposed to be infested, widening his cir- 
cles as he runs, until, at last, he professes to have found the outer limits 
of the space of ground supposed to be under the influence of the witch. 
Then he and his assistants (the latter also masked) drive painted stakes 
into the ground all about the bewitched sjiot. These sticks, painted 
with certain colors found in the mountains, are said to possess the j)ower 
of preventing the escape of the witch. Now begins the search for the 
witch ; everything is looked into, huts are examined, fences removed, 
bushes cut down, until, at last, the medicine-man professes to find tke 
witch, which usually is the above-described stick, horse-hair and red 
cloth. Of course, this so-called witch has been hidden previous to the 
search, by some of the assistants of the medicine-man. It is burned at 
once, and the uninitiated fondly believe that, for a time at least, they 
will be free from the evil influences of the witch thus destroyed. Of 
course, this mode of treatment seldom i)roduces a cure of sick people, 
but the Pimas know nothing whatever of medicines; their medicine-men 
never administer anything internally, and the above ceremony is the 
principal attempt made to cure the sick. Sometimes, for instance, in 
case of j)ains in the chest or stomach, they scarify the patients with 
sharp stones or jflace burning coals upon the skin, and in rare instances 
the patient is placed upon the ground, his head to the west, and then 
the medicine-man gently passes a brush, made of eagle feathers, from 
his head to his feet ; after which he runs several paces, shakes the brush 
violently, and then returns to the patient to repeat, again and again, 
the same manoeuver. They believe that, ]>y this operation, the sickness 



414 ETHNOLOGY. 

is drawn first into the brush and thence shaken to the winds, and by- 
standers keep a respectful distance for fear of inhaling the disease when 
it is shaken from the brush. Some doctors pretend to destroy sickness 
by shooting painted arrows from i>ainted bows at imaginary evil spirits 
supposed to be hovering in the vicinity of the patient. 

The Pimas know many herbs which they use as food at times when 
wheat is scarce, but they have no knowledge of medical properties of 
herbs or minerals, with the only exception of a small weed, called colon- 
driua by the Mexicans, which, applied as a poultice, is a certain remedy 
for the bite of a rattlesnake. 

It is believed that all efforts to christianize the Pimas would fail, not 
because any of them would oppose such attempts, but because they 
all would be entirely indifferent to the new teachings. 

Burial of the dead. — The Pimas tie the bodies of their dead with 
ropes, passing the latter around the neck and under the knees, and 
then drawing them tight until the body is doubled up and forced into a 
sitting position. They dig the grave from four to five feet deep, and 
perfectly round, (about two feet diameter,) and then hollow out to one 
side of the bottom of this grave a sort of vault large enough to contain 
the body. Here the body is deposited, the grave is filled up level 
witk the ground, and i)oles, trees, or pieces of timber placed ui^on the 
grave to protect the remains from the coyotes, (a species of wolf.) 
Burials usually take place at night without much ceremony. The 
mourners chant during the burial, but signs of grief are rare. The 
bodies of their dead are buried, if possible, immediately after death has 
taken place, and the graves are generally prepared before the patients 
die. Sometimes sick persons (for whom the graves had already been 
dug) recovered ; in such cases the graves are left ojjen uutd the persons 
for whom they were intended die. Open graves of this kind can be 
seen in several of their burial-grounds. Places of burial are selected 
some distance from the village, and, if possible, in a grove of mesquite 
bushes. Immediately after the remains have been buried, the house 
and personal effects of the deceased are burned, and his horses and 
cattle killed, the meat being cooked as a repast for the mourners. The 
nearest relatives of the deceased, as a sign of their sorrow, remain 
within their vdlage for weeks ; and sometimes months, the men cut off 
about six inches of their long hair, while the women cut their hair (juite 
short. (The Pima men wear their hair very longj many have hair 
thirty-six inches long, and often braid it in strands; only the front hair 
is cut straight across, so as to let it reach the eyes. The women, who 
also cut the front hair like the men, i^art their hair in the middle, and 
wear it usually long enough to let It reach a little below the shoulders. 
The hair is their only head covering. The men are proud of long- 
hair, braid it and comb it with care, and to give it a glossy ai)pearance 
frequently plaster it over with a mixture of black clay and mesquite 
gum. This preparation is left on the hair for a day or two and is then 



THE PIMA INDIANS OF ARIZONA. 415 

■washed out, when it leaves the hair uot ouly bhxck and glossy, but also 
free from vermiu.) 

• The custom of destroying all the property of the husband when he 
dies impoverishes the widow and children and prevents increase of stock. 
The women of the tribe, well aware that they will be poor should their 
husbands die, and that then they will have to provide for their children 
by their own exertions, do not care to have many children, and infanti- 
cide, both before and after birth, prevails to a very great extent. This 
is not considered a crime, and old women of the tribe practice it. 
A widow may marry again after a year's mourning for her first husband ; 
but having children, no man will take her for a wife and thus burden 
himself with her children. Widows generally cultivate a small piece 
of ground, and friends or relatives (men) generally plow the ground for 
them. 

Makeiages. — Marriages among the Pimas are entered into without 
ceremony, and are never considered as binding. The lover selects a 
friend, who goes with him to the hut of the parents of the girl and asks 
the father to give his daughter to his friend. If the ijareuts are satis- 
fied, and the girl makes no objections, the latter at once accompanies 
her husband to his hut, and remains with him as long as both feel 
satisfied with the compact. If, however, the girl refuses, the lover 
retires at once and all negotiations are at an end. Presents are seldom 
given unless a very old man desires a young bride. Wives frequently 
leave their husbands and husbands their wives. This act of leaving is 
all that is necessary to separate them forever, and either party is at 
liberty to marry some one else, only at the second marriage the assist- 
ance of a friend is dispensed with. Instances of fidelity and strong- 
affections are known, but many of the wives do not hesitate to surren- 
der their charms to men other than their husbands, which, though 
possibly disagreeable to the husband, is not considered a crime by the 
tribe. Ouly the worst of the women of the tribe cohabit with the whites, 
but it is undeniable that the number of such women is increasing from 
year to year. But, though this has caused a great deal of disease in 
the tribe, which disease is rapidly spreading, still not one of the chiefs 
or old men of the nation appears to have thought it necessary to raise 
a warningvoice or propose punishment to the offenders, and prostitutes 
are looked upon as inevitable, and are by no means treated, with con- 
tempt or scorn by the Pimas. Modesty is unknown both to men and 
women. Their conversation, even in the presence of children, is 
extremely vulgar, and mauy of the names of both men and women are 
offensive. 

Generally several married couples with their children live in one hut, 
and mauy of the men who can support more than one wife practice 
polygamy. The wife is the slave of the husband. She carries wood and 
water, spins and weaves, has the sole care of the children, and does all 
the work in the field except plowing and sowing. It fs the Pima 



416 ETHNOLOGY. 

womau that, with patient hard hxbor, winnows the chaif from the wheat 
and then carries the latter upon her head to the store of the trader, 
where the husband — who has preceded her on horseback — sells it," 
spending perhaps all the money received for it in the purchase of articles 
intended only for his own use. Pima women rarely ride on horseback. 
The husband always travels mounted, while the wife trudges along on 
foot, carrying her child or a heavily laden ki-ho (basket) on her head and 
back. Women, during child-birth, and during the continuance of their 
menses, retire to a small hut built for this purpose in the vicinity of 
their own dwelling-place. Men never enter these huts when occupied 
by women, and the latter while here have separate blankets and eat 
from dishes used by no one else. 

Weapons and manner of fighting. — The only Aveapons used by 
the Pimas before the introduction of fire-arms were the bow and arrow 
and war-club. For defensive purposes they carried a round shield, about 
two feet in diameter, made of rawhide, which, when thoroughly dry, 
becomes so hard that an arrow, even if sent by a powerful enemy at a 
short distance, cannot penetrate it. These weapons are still used by 
them to a great extent, and, like all Indians, they are good marksmen 
with the bow, shooting birds on the wing and fishes while swimming in 
the shallow waters of the Gila Eiver. For hunting fishes and small 
game they use arrows without hard points, but the arrows used in battle 
have sharp, two-edged points made of flint, glass, or iron. "When going 
on a scout against the Aj^ache Indians, their bitter foes, the Pimas fre- 
quently dip the points of their arrows into putrid meat, and it is said 
that a wound caused by such an arrow will never heal, but fester for 
some days and finally produce death. The war-club is made out of mes- 
quite wood, which is hard and heavy. It is about sixteen inches long, 
half being handle, and the other half the club proper. With it 
they strike the enemy on the head. This weapon is even now 
very much used, for the Pimas rarely attack their enemies in open day- 
light. They usually surround the Apache rancheria at night, some 
warriors placing themselves near the doors of all huts ; 'then the terrible 
war-cry is sounded, and when the surprised Apaches crawl through the 
low doors of their huts the war-clubs of the Pimas descend upon their 
heads with a crushing force. The Pimas never scalp their dead enemies; 
in fact, no Pima will ever touch an Apache further than is necessary to 
kill him. Even the act of killing an Apache by means of an arrow is 
believed to make the Pima unclean whose bow discharged the fatal 
arrow. They firmly believe that all Apaches are possessed of an evil 
spirit, and that all who kill them become unclean and remain so until 
again cleansed by peculiar process of j)urification. The Pima warrior 
who has killed an Ai^ache at once separates himself from all his com- 
panions, (who are not even permitted to speak to him,) and returns to 
the vicinity of his home. Here he hides himself in the bushes near the 
river-bank, where he remains secluded for sixteen days, conversing with 



THE PIMA INDIANS OF ARIZONA. 417 

DO one, and oniy seeing duriug the whole period of the cleausiug process 
an old woman of his tribe who has been api)ointed to carry food to him, 
but who never speaks. During the twenty-four hours immediately fol- 
lowing the killing the Pima neither eats nor drinks ; after this he par- 
takes of food and water sparingly, but for the whole sixteen days he can- 
not eat meat of any kind nor salt, nor must he drink anything but river- 
water. For the first four days he frequently bathes himself in the 
river ; during the second four days he plasters his hair with a mixture of 
niesquite gum and black clay, which composition is allowed to dry and 
become hard upon his head, and is washed out during the night of the 
eighth day. On the ninth naorniug he again besmears his head with black 
clay without the gum ; on the evening of the twelfth dny he washes his 
hair, combs it, braids it in long strands, and ties the end with red ribbon 
or a shawl ; and then for four days more frequently washes his whole body 
in the Gila River. On the ev^euing of the sixteenth day he returns to 
his village, is met by one of the old men of his tribe who, after the Avar- 
rior has placed himself at full length upon the ground, bends down, 
passes some of the saliva in his mouth into that of the warrior, and 
blows his Itreath into the nostrils of the latter. The warrior then 
rises, and now, and not until now, is he again considered clean ; his 
friends approach him and joyfully congratulate him on his victory. 

The Apache Indians, the most savage on the continent, during the 
X)ast twenty years have murdered hundreds of whites and Mexicans, 
and have thus obtained a large supply of fire-arms and ammunition. 
In order to cope with them successfully the Pimas have purchased many 
guns and pistols, and are now tolerably well armed with improved 
weapons. Xo restriction has ever been placed on the sale of arms and 
ammunition to these people. 

The Pimas never capture Apaclie men. These are killed on tiie field, 
but women and girls and half grown boys are brought back to the reser- 
vation at times, though frequentl}" all the inhabitants of the Apache 
village are killed. 

Apache prisoners are rarely treated in a cruel manner. For the first 
week or two they are compelled to go from village to village and are 
exhibited with pride and made to join the war-dance. Often, too, the 
peculiar war-whoop of the Apaches is sounded by some old Pima squaw 
as a taunt to the prisoners, but after the lapse of a few weeks they are 
treated kindly, share food and clothing with their captors ; and generally 
become domesticated, learn the Pima language, and remain upon the 
reservation. Instances have occurred when Apache prisoners have 
attempted to escape, but they have invariably been overtaken and killed 
as soon as recaptured. Quite a number of captured Apache children 
are .sold by the Pimas to whites and Mexicans. These children, if prop- 
erly trained, are said to become very docile and make good house-ser- 
vants. 

In rare instances a Pima will even inarrvan Apache woman after she 
27 s 71 



418 ETHNOLOGY. 

has resided for two or three years on the reservation, but generally full- 
grown Apache women become public prostitutes, and their owners 
appropriate the money received by these women from degraded white 
men. 

Pima industey and food. — The men do not labor except so far as 
js necessary to enable them to raise a crop. Each village elects two or 
three old men, who decide everything pertaining to the digging of 
acequias and making of dams, and who also regulate the time during 
which each land-owner may use the water of the acequia for irrigating 
purposes. Each village has constructed years ago an acequia, (irrigating 
canal.) In order to force the water of the Gila River into their acequias 
the Pimas dam the river at convenient spots by means of poles tied 
together with bark and raw-hide and stakes driven into the bed of the 
river. Small crevices are filled with bundles of willow-branches, reeds, 
and a weed called " gatuna." These frail structures rarely stand longer 
than a year and are often entirely carried away when the river rises 
suddenly, which occurs in the spring of the year, if, during the winter, 
much snow has fallen upon the mountains whence the stream issues, 
and also sometimes during the summer after heavy showers. Their 
acequias are often ten feet deep at the dam, and average from four to 
six feet in width, and are continued for miles, until finally the water 
therein is brought on a level with the ground to be cultivated, when the 
water is led off by means of smaller ditches all through their fields. 
Having no instruments for surveying or striking of levels, they still 
display considerable ingenuity in the selection of proper places for the 
''heads of ditches." 

The Pimas and Maricopas have a reservation containing one hundred 
square miles and extending along the Gila Eiverfor a distance of nearly 
twenty-five miles ; only a comparatively small part of this area, how- 
ever, is available for agricultural purposes, for a portion of the soil on 
the reservation is strongly impregnated with alkali; some spots are 
marshy, and all the land beyond the immediate river bottom-land so high 
above the level of the river that irrigation becomes impracticable, con- 
sidering the limited means for making acequias at the disposal of the 
Pimas. 

The Indians do not cultivate all the land that might be tilled, for their 
fields do not average more than from ten to fifteen acres to the family ; 
nevertheless they are dissatisfied with the size of their reservation, 
asserting that their forefathers had always been in possession of a much 
larger portion of the Gila Valley, and since the valley above the reser- 
vation has been settled up by Americans and Mexicans, the Indians 
have frequently encroached upon the fields of the latter, whom they con- 
sider in the light of intruders, audit is appreheuded that sooner or later 
serious diificulties will arise. 

The Pima men plow the land with oxen and a crooked stick, as is done 
by the Mexicans ; they sow the seed and cut the grain 5 (the latter is done 



THE PIMA INDIANS OF ARIZONA. 410 

with short sickles.) Horses thrash the grain by stamping. The women 
winnow the grain, when thrashed, by pitching it into the air by basket- 
fnls, when the wind carries off the chaff; they convert the wheat into 
flour, grinding it by hand on Uieiv mctafcs, (a hirge flat stone upon which 
the wheat is i^Uiced, after liaving beeu slightly parched over the fire 
previously, and whereupon it is ground into coarse flour by rubbing and 
crushing with another smaller stone.) The principal crop is wheat, of 
which they sell, when the season is favorable, 1,500,000 pounds per 
annum. They also raise corn, barley, beans, pumpkins, squashes, 
melons, onions, and a small supply of very inferior short cotton. 

The diet of the Pimas is very simjfle ; animal food is used only on 
occasions of ceremony, although they possess large numbers of beef- 
cattle and chickens. They do not use the cow.'s milk, manufacture 
neither butter nor cheese, and do not eat the eggs of their hens. Very 
few will eat pork. But whenever they kill a cow, steer, or calf, they eat 
every part of it that can possibly be masticated, intestines included. 
Should an animal die, no matter what the disease, they eat its meat 
without apparent evil effects upon their health. At times they hunt the 
rabbit, which is about the only game (quadruped) in their country. 
Fish, during the months of April and May, are also extensively eaten. 

Wheat, corn, beans, and above all, pumpkins and mesquite-beans are 
their principal food. The latter grow wild in abundance, and millions 
of po unds are gathered annually by the women of the tribe. These beans 
are gathered when nearly- ripe, then dried hard, and when required as 
food first pounded in a wooden mortar and then boiled until they become 
soft. The water is then squeezed out, and the pulpy substance remain- 
ing molded into loaves, which are baked in the hot ashes. The bread 
thus obtained has a sweetish taste, is very nourishing, but, being' very 
heavy, can hardly be easily digested. 

The women also collect, in proper season, the fruit of the saican-a, 
(Columbia cactus,) out of which they manufacture the native whiskey, 
(called tisiciii.) This, after one fermentation, must be used at once, for 
otherwise it becomes sour. All Pimas are inordinately fond of this bev- 
erage, and old and young partake of it until the whole nation are wildly 
dancing about in a drunken frenzy, until at last they drop to the ground 
overcome by the stupefying effect of the liquor. 

The women also spin and weave a coarse kind of bhiuket, gather 
large quautiesof hay annually, which are sold to white men, gather and 
carry all the fuel needed by their family, make the ki-ho, a peculiarly 
constructed basket carried on the back of the head and shoulders by 
means of a broad straw strap fitting across the forehead, manufacture, 
of willows and reeds, superior baskets, which are made so perfect that 
they will hold water, and finally excel in the manufacture of a coarse 
kind of pottery-ware, making jugs, dishes, plates, and all their other 
household utensils. 



420 ETHNOLOGY. 

IXDIAN MODE OF MiKING ARROW-HE\DS AXI) OBTAIXIXG FIRE. 

Extract of a letter from General George Crook, United States Army. 

A great portion of the couutry east of the Sierra Nevada and Cas- 
cade ranges of monntains has quantities of small slivers of obsidian 
scattered over its surface. The Indians collect these, aud by laying 
their flat side on a blanket, or some other substance that will yield, 
they will, with the point of a knife, nick off the edges of this to the 
desired shape with remarkable facility and rapidity, making from fifty 
to one hundred in an hour. In their primitive state they probably 
used buckskin or very soft wood instead of the blanket, and a piece of 
pointed horn or bone for the knife.* 

The fire-sticks consist of two pieces. The horizontal stick is generally 
from one foot to a foot and a half long, a couple or three inches wide, 
and about one inch thick, of some soft dry wood, frequently the sap of 
juniper. The upright stick is usually some two feet long, and from a 
quarter to half an inch in diameter, with the lower end round or ellipti- 
cal, and of the hardest ma.terial they can find. In the sage-bush coun- 
try it is made of " grease wood." 

When they make fire, they lay the first piece in a horizontal position, 
with the flat side down, and place the round end of the upright near 
the edge of the other stick ; then taking the upright between the hands 
they give it a swift rotary motion, and as coniitant use wears a liole in 
the lower stick, they cut a nick in its outer edge down to a level with 
the bottom of the hole. The motion of the upright works the ignited 
powder out of this nick, and it is there caught and applied to a piece 
of spunk, or some other highly combustible substance, and from this 
the fire is started. 



A\CIENT MOliXD, NEAR LEXINGTON, KENTUCKY. 

By Dr. Robert Peter. 

The little mound from which the accompanying si)ecimens were 
taken by Mr. Fisher is on the southern bank of the North Elkhorn 
Creek, in a bottom field, about 15 feet above the level of the creek at 
low water. The field has been cleared of its timber, covered with blue- 
grass, used as a pasture, trampled by cattle and rooted by hogs, as 
long as can be recollected by the present owner and neighbors; conse- 
quently the mound now presents only a gentle swelling on the level sur- 
face of the ground. It is about 70 feet in diameter, and rises in 
its center only to about 3i to 4 feet above the general level. It is situ- 
ated about lialf a mile west of the small, ancient, circular ditch, on the 
bluffs of the C. Shelton Moore place, described in Collins's History of 

* The Klamath River Intliaus often made arrow-bead^roin broken juuk-bottles.— G. 



ANCIENT MOUND NEAR LEXINGTON, KENTUCKY. 421 

Kentucky, published iu 1847, (page 204:,) aud about a quarter of a mile 
north of the larger ancient work near the dividing line, between the old 
military surveys of Dandridge and Meredith, described in the same 
work, of which I shall append a further description. About a mile and 
a half nearly north of this little mound, on the Nutter farm, is a larger 
mound, apparently' about 15 feet high. 

The manner in which these relics were discovered by Mr. Fisher was 
as follows : His attention having been drawn to the appearance of frag- 
ments of tlint arrow-heads and other articles, in a hog-wallow near the 
center of the little mound, he dug a hole there about 3A feet deep and 

4 or 5 across, and discovered a bed of ashes about 2i feet deep and 4 or 

5 feet in diameter, in which the relics I send you were found, together 
with i^ieces of charcoal, most of which seems to have been made from 
small stems. The copper articles were nearly all together, and a little 
to the north of the center of the bed of ashes, while the other articles 
were scattered throughout the same bed, in which were about a peck of 
flint arrow-heads, all evidently broken by the action of fire. The coj)- 
I)er articles were found, according to Mr. Fisher's description, in the 
following positions: The larger of the adze-shaped edged-tools, or cop- 
per axes, was lying with the concave side downward; next immedi- 
ately above it was the longest of the ornamental articles, the one 
with one ear broken off", and with the rust scraped off from the other. 
It was lying crosswise, with the ear next to the broader end of the 
lower piece. Above these was the second ornamental article, the one 
having a piece of flint arrow-head attached to it; this was lying with 
the flint upward and the horn downward. It has a fracture in the 
surface of the rust, on the lower side, corresponding to a piece of the 
same attached to the top of the charcoal on the adze-shaped article 
which lay below it ; the ear was resting on the broad end of that article. 
Close to these, aud with one horn under the pile described, was the 
largest article, nearly square in shape, with one horn curled and another 
broken off about three-fourths of an inch from the body. The smaller 
broken adze-shaped article was lying on this diagonally. The broken 
horn was found near by. There were three hemispherical articles of 
iron found, of v»'hich two are sent, and several pieces of sandstone, 
similar to the coarsest ones sent. 

The singular pieces of stone with holes bored through them seem to 
have been fractured by fire. Others, somewhat like these in shape, 
each with two holes, made of the native sulphate of baryta, which 
occurs in numerous seams in our limestone rock, are frequent!}' found 
in this neighborhood on the surface of the ground. I send two in the 
box, and a hemispherical piece of the same material. They may be dis- 
tinguished by their whiteness from those taken from the mound. 

It is remarkable that all the fragments of bones found in this mound, 
in Mr. Fisher's digging, are of the lower animals, aud seem mostly to 
have been worked or carved for useful or ornamental purposes. No 



422 ETHNOLOGY. 

huniiiu osseous remains were seen. If this mound was made to cover 
the dead, the bones have either been entirely destroyed in the lapse of 
time, or the bodies were laid in the outside circumference of the mound, 
around the fire, perhaps so that they were beyond the hole made by Mr. 
Fisher. This question may, however, be settled by digging a trench 
across the diameter of the mound. 

The copper of which these ax-shaped and ornamental articles are 
made is doubtless the native metal. I can discover no sign of any in- 
scription or carving upon them. The great length of time during which 
they have been buried is shown by the conversion of the whole thick- 
ness of the copper, in some places one-fourth of an inch thick, as in the 
little axe, into carbonate and red oxide of copper. 

As you will see, the carbonate of copper from the copper pieces has 
been diffused over the charcoal and other surrounding objects, so as to 
serve as a cement attaching them firmly together. 

It is diflicult to imagine the use of the flat square, or oblong square 
copper articles with the two curved horns at one end. Perhaps they 
were ornaments to be suspended from the neck ! Neither can we tell 
the object or applications of the stone shaped like the button of a door, 
with the two bored holes through them. 

On October 20, 1838, I made a measurement of this ancient work, 
partly on the Meredith farm, and I give you the sul)joined extract from 
my notes made at that time : 

" This large, nearly circular work is situated on a slight hill, where 
the corners of the Meredith, Breckinridge, (Dale,) and Meore larms 
meet near the North Elkhorn Creek. It consists of a ditch, in some 
places, six feet deep. The earth has been thrown up generally on the 
outside, but sometimes on the inside, with no raised pathway at present 
visible. 

" This work where the native forest is still left, covered with as 
large timber as in any part of the surrounding country-, and trees, as 
large and old as any, are growing in the ditch and on the embankment. 
Measured in a direction north 53° east, it is 1,138 in diameter. In the 
direction south 72° east it is 1,221 feet in diameter. Its circumference, 
taken by carrying the chain around in the middle of the ditch, is 3,079 
feet. 

" About 2,100 feet distant from this old circular work, in a northeast 
direction, on a higher hill or ridge, on the farm of C. Shelton Moore, is a 
smaller but better preserved work, of somewhat similar construction ; 
the ditch is still very regular, being fully eight feet deep. The circular 
platform defined by this ditch is on a level with the top of the outside 
wall, and seems to have been raised above the common surface of the 
ridge. It has large trees growing on it and on the sides of the ditch. 
It is perfectly circular, and measures 132 feet in diameter. A raised 
passway on a level with the platform interrupts the ditch on the north- 
west side. • 



SHELL-HEAP IN GEORGIA. 423 

" 111 the hollow between the bills on which these two aucieiit works 
are situated is another small ditch, quite shallow, inclosing a circle of 
about 82 feet in diameter." 

In Collins's History of Kentucky, page 295, you wili see it stated that 
in 1845 an ash tree, supposed to be four hundred years old, growing on 
the ditch of the larger work, was cut down. 

Of course, time and cultivation have altered greatly the appearance 
of these remains since these descriptions were made, but the plow has 
not yet entirely obliterated the ditch, even in the places which have been 
the longest in cultivation, and frequently liiut arrows-heads, and pieces 
of pottery, etc., are observed on the surface. Once a large deposit of 
new arrow-heads, made of horn-stone, were plowed up. 



SHELL HEAP IN GEORGIA. 

BV D. BUOWX, OF L.VMBERTVILLE, NeW JeUSEY. 

Your mention of receipts from " shell-heaps "' reminds me of perhaps 
the largest shell-heap in the South, on the island of Osabaw, below 
Savannah. It had not been disturbed when I saw it, some thirty years 
ago, and may not yet have been, as the island is not in a traversed 
route. It is one of the largest of the sea islands, and was probably 
long ago a royal residence. When the island was assigned by Ogle- 
thorpe to one of his companions, ]\Iorel, ancestor of my wife, it was 
occupied by droves of wild horses and cattle, with various large and 
small game. When afterward his sons were sent to England for edu- 
cation, peltry and furs from the island were exported to meet their ex- 
penses. 

If the mound has not yet been disturbed persons curious in such mat- 
ters migbt be induced to cause its excavation. 



REMARKS ON AN ANCIENT RELIC OF MAYA SCULPTIRE. 

Bv Dk. Arthur Scuott. 

In presenting to the Smithsonian Institution the accompanying relic 
of Maya antiquity, the donor wishes to add some remarks, which may 
be interesting to the ethnological reader. 

This specimen was received from Sehor D. Juan 
Manzano, M. D., of Valladolid, a once considerable 
town of Eastern Yucatan, where it was giv^en to him 
some years ago, as having been picked up among the 
famous ruins of Chichen Stza. 

The material of which this little piece of art has been 
cut is a semiagatized xyolite, still bearing tbe marks of silieified conif- 




424 ETHNOLOGY. 

eroiis wood, a fossil probably foreign to the soil of the peninsula. The 
mask of a human head or skull, which this relic evidently represents, 
measures 25 millimeters from chin to the top of the forehead, and 22 
millimeters across just above the eyes. The vertical facial line is divided 
into three equal parts, corresponding respectively to the maxillary, nasal, 
and frontal regions. The space between the eye-sockets measures 7 
millimeters, and the facial angle is about 80 degrees of an arc. The dis- 
tinct employment of geometrical forms by which some of the details of 
the face are limited, is a prominent feature of the design, and invites 
particular notice. 

Two circles of equal diameters, with their inner peripheries touching 
each other, form the ocular region. The point where these circles con- 
verge is assigned to the root of the nose. A straight horizontal line sepa- 
rating the upper and lower jaw and running right to the centers of four 
rings of equal size divides these latter into eight half rings, which seem 
to represent so many teeth, the four upper ones standing directly upon 
the lower. On each side of the head, and in place of the ears, two holes 
are bored, one lateral and the other from the back, so as to meet each 
other almost under a right angle. Over the temples a shallow grooved 
line runs toward the upper part of the eye-sockets, where it is proba- 
bly intended to mark more distinctly the prominent cheek-bones. 

As a work of art the specimen is much inferior to many others which 
have been left by the 3Iayas, for simple linear designs are freely substi- 
tuted for real plasticity. In other respects, however, it proves a consid- 
erable degree of mechanical skill as well in the polish of so hard a 
material as also in the obvious application of the drill. Still more re- 
markable and mythologically highly interesting is a certain amount of 
symbolism plainly expressed in the principal details of this specimen of 
sculpture. Here the most striking feature is shown in the twice four 
teeth, for with a race like the American aborigines, so well known as 
close and faithful observers of natural objects, this deviation from 
reality can only be taken as an intentional representation of certain 
numerals ever recurring in their works of sculpture and architecture. 

To decipher the special meaning embodied in the present piece must 
be left to the efforts of professional mythologists. Suffice it to hint here 
at the (direction in which such researches should be made. 

As to the purpose for which this little piece may originally have been 
intended, it is only conjectured that it was once worn by some person as 
a badge or amulet, for the double lateral holes seem to have served for 
passing through strings or fastenings of some kind. 

There is another fact connected with the present relic — that is, the high 
appreciation with which the arts of sculpture and stone-cutting have 
been considered among the ancient Mayas. They were, indeed, so 
highly esteemed that their protection had been assigned to a special 
deity, called " Etuhtun.'''' This aame is formed from the verb tul)^ to cut, 
carve, engrave, and ^«w, stone or rock. The H |3refixed, when used as a 



ANCIENT HISTORY OF NORTH AMERICA. 425 

name or a uouii, gives it a male character. lu the theogony of the 
Mayas HtuMun seems to have occupied the same position as Plutus did 
in Greek and Roman mythology, for both were the dispensers of min- 
eral riches, especially metal and precious stones. Whether Iltuhtim 
stood in similar relation to some other kindred deity as FluUts was to 
Pluto, the writer has not been able to learn, thongli the XQrx design of 
the present specimen may justily such a supposition. 

ANCIENT HISTORY OF NORTH AMERICA. 

COilMrXICATION TO THE AXTHEOrOLOGICAL SOCIETY OF VIENNA, BY DE. M. MUCH. 
[Translated for the Smithsonian Institution by Professor C. F. Kroeb.] 

The material for the ancient history of America is already so exten- 
sive, that I must content myself with a general sketch, briefly touching 
upon the different views on the origin of the aborigines and their ])lace 
among the races. 

At first it was thought they derived their origin from the Jews, and 
Englishmen and Americans versed in biblical lore drew largely on the 
Old Testament for proofs. Soon the Carthagenians and Pha'niciaus 
took the place of the Jews, to be displaced in their turn by the Egyptians 
or Macedonians as the progenitors of the Indians. Finally the blood of 
Celts and Teutons, and even of Greeks and Eomans, was said to flow in 
their veins. The most iilausible reasons were found for such views, 
from whicli scarcely a people of any note was excluded. 

The report that Greek inscriptions and remains of Eoman camps 
had been found in America, you will, of course, immediately reject as 
a silly hoax. More lately, extensive remains of Norman settlements 
were said to have been discovered in the United States, and these 
were immediately employed to make up a case, with the Xorse myths 
and songs, which unfortunately existed only in the imagination of t]}e 
discoverer. 

Other American scientists, especially IMorton, advocated an autoch- 
thonous race of America on the sounder basis of comprehensive anthro- 
pological studies. But this view is no longer satisfactory, for the im- 
pulse to the civilization of Mexico, Central America, and Peru, myste- 
rious as it still is to-day, not only seems to have come from without, but 
the people themselves seem to have been foreign and not native to the 
soil. The opinion, advanced a long time ago, that the original inhab- 
itants of America are of Mongolian extraction, is gaining more and more 
weight.* 

According to Professor Haeckel's genealogy of the twelve races, the 
Mongolians separated early into three branches— a southeastern or 
CoreoJapanese, a southwestern or Indo-Chinese, and a northern or 
Ural- Altaians. These again sent out branches westward, where they 
ijeparated into Tungusians, Samoyedes, Kalmucks, Tartars, Turks, 



' I find tbis view still further supported in the interesting lecture of Professor Fr. 
Muller on the inhabitants of Alaska, in which be points to the similarity of religions 
views in the northeastern tribes of Asia and the Indians of Alaska. 



426 ETHNOLOGY. 

Fins, aud Magyars. Another branch jn-obably took an easterly direc- 
tion loaig before giving rise to the "Arctics," who first peopled North- 
eastern Asia, and afterward crossed Behring's Straits, and passed into 
America. 

Perhai^s the depressing influences of thousands of years had formed 
a deteriorated branch in Asia, the descendants of which are still repre- 
sented by the Esquimaux in the extreme north of America, while a 
southern and more vigorous branch chose the more temperate parts of 
North America, and spread in the course of time over the whole con- 
tinent. In the extreme south this race was again modified by depressing- 
natural influences similar to those which operated in the north. 

The aborigines of America difter, as we all know, in their languages, 
and are divided into tribes 5 but the type of these tribes and the organic 
structure of their languages are essentially the same. Only the Esqui- 
maux differ from the general type, but their language is intimately 
related to those of their southern neighbors. According to this view, 
the wave of Indian i^opulation, which in the old world advanced from 
east to west, must have taken a direction from north to south in the 
new ; it is confirmed, indeed, by historical and mythical traditions, as 
well as by the character of the remnants of civilization found as we 
advance from north to south. 

Greater or less portions of the population, especially in Mexico and 
Central America, seem, however, to have been in constant motion. 
This mobility is the attribute of a nation of hunters, who drive the 
existing population before them. Again, the migratory impulse, so to 
speak, seems to belong to a certain period in the development of a peo- 
ple. It is exemplified in our own Teutonic ancestors, whose impetuous 
advance not only caused the downfall of the Eoman Empire of a thou- 
sajjfd years' standing, but also involved the entire population of Europe 
in its motion. 

Passing to the lelics of American civilization, it must be stated in 
advance that the determination of their age, their order, and their whole 
history is as yet much more difficult than that of European remains. 
And this for two reasons : First, because of the very gradual devel- 
opment of civilization. The form and material of utensils and weap- 
ons remain the same during long intervals, and sometimes up to 
the historical period, whence it happens that remains, differing in age, 
perhaps, by thousands ©f years, can hardly be distinguished. Sec- 
ondly, certain characteristic periods in the development of civiliza- 
tion, such as the appearance of metallic utensils in Europe, by which a 
classification might otherwise be effected, are wanting. Metals, espe. 
cially copper, were long used in America ; they are found in the most 
ancient deposits, while they are absent in the more recent; but the use 
of copper is no proof of a more advanced civilization in America, since it 
w^as for the most part employed in as rough a state as that of stone. 
Pieces of copper were broken off" from the native blocks by means of 



ANCIENT HISTORY OF NORTH AMERICA. 427 

stoue hatchets, and fashioned with the hammer. The natives evidently 
had no idea of its fusibility. For this reason, the use of the metal does 
not indicate greater progress, and we are thus deprived of a means of 
classification. 

In Mexico, Central Americn, and Peru, it was difierent, however. 
There we have evidence of a high degree of skill in the working of 
metals (iron being almost the only exception) in the more recent period. 
They had advanced beyond the mere hammering of pieces of metal 
found by accident, and understood smelting, and eveu attempted to 
obtain metals by mining for ores. The American remains were, there- 
fore, arranged according to the places where they were found, or the 
purposes for which they were intended. But to keep in view the i)rog- 
ress of development, I have taken the liberty of adopting the following 
arrangement : I would assume a i)eriod immediately preceding the advent 
of the Europeans in America, and continuing for a short time after. 
This would correspond to our historical age, and may be designated, in 
a restricted sense, as the historic period. 

A second epoch would include a time far removed even from the rec- 
ollection of the inhabitants at the time of Columbus, and characterized 
by a different distribution of the iiopulation and other complete revo- 
lutions. To this period belong the great mounds, particularly those of 
the Ohio Valley. It might be called the mound i^eriod, and corresponds 
to the advanced portion of the age of stone, and the beginning of the 
age of bronze in Europe. 

The third and most ancient period would then include those discov- 
eries which point to the co-existence of man with extinct species of ani- 
mals. It corresponds to the age of the mammoth and the reindeer in 
Europe, and might be called the diluvial period. 

Utensils of all kinds, and buildings or mounds, belong to the two.more 
recent periods. The buildings of the first or historic period are found 
chiefly in the eastern parts of the United States and Canada, in Mexico, 
and CentralAmerica. In the United States, Canada, and farther north, 
they consist of mounds and bulwarks. 

The mounds of the first period are places of interment, and corre- 
spond precisely to the tumuli in Europe. They were i^robably used for 
the burial of chiefs, since they contain for the most part one or only a 
few skeletons. Sometimes, however, heaps of bodies or their skeletons 
are piled up, and covered with a knoll of earth. Whether these are 
the bodies of Indians fallen in battle, or of the victims of immense sac- 
rifices, remains undecided. They are on an average 5 feet high, with a 
base 25 feet in circumference; but there are some as high as 15 feet, 
and having a circumference of CO feet. That the Indians, even during 
the time of their first intercourse with the Europeans, erected such liil- 
locks as graves for distinguished chiefs, or to commemorate important 
events, has been proved in several cases. 

The works of defense consist of walls of earth, and rarely of stone, 



428 ETHNOLOGY. 

furnislied in each case with palisades. They are for the most part near 
rivers and brooks, always near water, and especially at places surrounded 
on more than one side by water, on elevated ground, defended on one or 
more sides by natural strength of position. 

To the age which, in America, corresponds to our historical period, 
belong also tlie remnants of those grand structures, those wonderful 
ruins of palaces, temples, and cities, which, even at the present day, 
bear witness of the high degree of civilization of their builders in 
numerous localities of Mexico, Yucatan, and Central America. Although 
they are almost destroyed, and covered with luxurious vegetation, these 
remains afford a wealth of scientific material, but I must content myself 
with merely naming them. 

The characteristic structures of the second period are the mounds, and 
the period itself is the period of the mound-builders. These mounds 
are of three kinds, for burial, sacrifice, and worship, and occur in the 
whole Mississippi Valley, but most frequently in the Ohio Valley, in 
the vicinity of Chillicothe. The burial-mounds correspond to those of 
the Atlantic States, but are generally larger. Many are as high as 60 
feet. They indicate a greater antiquity, by the more advanced stage of 
decomposition of the contained skeletons. Sometimes the bodies were 
burned and their ashes deposited in urns. Weapons, ornaments, and 
utensils are always found in them, but remnants of food occur only in 
the more recent. Signs of fire and animal bones, probably remnants of 
sacrifices or of " wakes," are often found under the top surface of these 
mounds. Sometimes the chiefs of a later period were buried in the old 
mounds, and in such cases the well-preserved skeleton of the new-comer 
is found above the crumbling one of the older. An interesting case in 
point came to light in December, 1870, when a mound near Saint Louis, 
Missouri, was opened by a scientific commission. It was 40 feet high 
and 300 feet long. Twenty years ago a dwelling-house was built on it 
and a cemetery instituted beside it. On digging, the bones of three 
different races were successively brought to light ; first, those of white 
men ; in the center, those of Indians of the present day ; and below, 
those of the ancient mound-builders, who lived there before the Indians 
that possessed the land at the time of the white man's arrival. Their 
bones were deposited in two large stone chambers. 

The second class of the older earth-mounds consists of those used for 
sacrifice. They are only a foot or two high. A small depression at the 
top bears evidences of burnt sacrifice on the hardened clay ; and the 
ashes often contain objects of various kinds placed there to propitiate 
their deity or to atone for their misdeeds. These objects are almost 
without exception broken, and have suffered from fire and the effects of 
time. 

The third class is that of the temple or palace mounds, the most im- 
portant of all. They have generally the shape of truncated four-sided 
pyramids, with terraces, steps, and dam-like elevations, which are often 



ANCIENT HISTORY OF NORTH AMERICA. 429 

iuteiTuptcd by smaller monnds. Their dimensions are enormous. Some 
are as high as 00 feet, and have a length of from 500 to 700 feet at the base. 
The upper surface of the great pyramid in Washington County, Missouri, 
contains 12,000 square feet. It is the largest of a group of eleven of 
such mounds. These mounds are either found alone or in groups ; some 
are surrounded by earth-walls and others are not. Besides those of the 
Mississippi Yalle}', similar large earth-pyramids are found in the Colorado 
Valley, where they are considered as Aztec structures. They have un- 
mistakable signs of former buildings upon them. Probably these earth- 
works had no other object than to serve as elevated bases for temples 
and the houses of chiefs and priests. These buildings must have been 
formed of lighter material, for they have entirely disappeared. Kever- 
theless they remind us of similar but more perfectly executed buildings 
of a later time in Mexico and Central America. All investigators agree 
that their builders belonged to a much higher civilization than those of 
the smaller grave-mounds in the east, or the Indians of the present day. 
It is said that the utensils from these mounds are worked with much 
more skill, and that some among them justified the conclusion that the 
builders followed agricultural pursuits. Another remarkable circum- 
stance is, that now and then copper utensils were found in the posses- 
sion of the Indians on the Atlantic coast. These, however, can only 
have been such as they found among the remains of the more ancient 
race ; since investigations of the Lake Superior copper region prove 
that the knowledge of making use of these copper-ore deposits had 
already been lost at the time when the Europeans took possession of 
America. Indeed, copper utensils are found only in the earth-works of 
the older, but not in the mounds of the more recent period. 

The mere presence of these large earth-works, however, with their 
incl»sures or bulwarks, is sufficient proof of a more highly developed 
people, who were no longer nomadic. I cannot help tliiidving that the 
Mississippi Valley may have been at one time the home of the Aztecs 
and Toltecs, who there erected, so to speak, the first crude models of 
their later wonderful structures, and then moved southward from un- 
known causes, carrying with them their higher civilization, and develop- 
ing it still further in their new homes; while the inferior race, which 
took possession of their abandoned dwellings, remained without knowl- 
edge of the rich ore dej^osits. 

There are also earth-works of another kind, similar to those in the 
Atlantic States, which doubtless served as fortifications. Some probably 
were inclosures of small villages ; for they are usually found near sin- 
gle or around whole groups of mounds, and have the ditch on the inner 
side. They frequently inclose large areas, but not a trace is left of the 
dwellings, which may have been within. 

A very peculiar species of earth-works are in the shape of men or 
various animals, the outlines of which they represent. Perhaps these 
partook of a religious or national character, some of the tribes being- 
named after certain animals. 



430 ETHNOLOGY. 

lu the most recent period, tbere is au enormous difference in tlie 
nature of the utensils employed by the northern and southern peoples. 
This difference is due to the use of metals. In the north are found almost 
exclusively utensils of stone, while in the south very fine utensils of 
copper, bronze, gold, silver, &c., occur besides. If the report is true 
that arro\Y-heiids of iron were found in possession of the inhabitants of 
some i)arts of South America, these can only have been made of 
meteoric iron. 

The utensils occur in the same manner as in Europe. They are found 
in the tomb-mounds, where they were deposited with the dead ; or in the 
altar-mounds, where they were brought as a sacrifice, or rather a gift of 
propitiation to their deit^'. In the latter case they are usually broken 
to pieces, probably on purpose, injured by fire, and mixed with the ashes 
of the victims. They are frequently brought to light by the plow or 
by violent rains, which wash away the soil, and lay bare the heavier stone 
utensils. The distribution ©f settlements is also similar ; often consid- 
erable regions are without any, while they are very numerous in more 
favorable localities. In North America, they are most frequent in valleys, 
where they are recognized by an abundance of fragments of vessels on 
the surface of the soil. 

Sometimes earth-heaps similar to the Danish Kjokkenmoddings indi- 
cate the spots where those old settlements stood. They have been lately 
investigated in several cases by Wyman, Morse, and our indefatiga- 
ble countryman, Charles Eau. Their appearance is the same as in 
Europe, with the difference, of course, that the animal remains belong 
to different species. Among the masses of broken shells, they contain 
more or less numerous utensils of stone and bone along with potsherds. 
They occur along the whole Atlantic coast. Near Keyport, New Jerseys, 
on an island north of Du rran9ais Inlet, at Crouch's Cove, Goose Island, 
in Casco Bay, Eagle Hill, at Ipswich, Massachusetts, Long Ishwid, and the 
mouth of the Altamaha River, in Georgia. Traces are also found along 
the coasts of Massachusetts, Newfoundland, Nova Scotia, Florida, and 
California. A portion of the city of New York is said to be built upon 
such deposits. To what period they belong, or whether they belong 
to different periods, has not yet been determined. Finally, we must 
mention the relics of human civilization found by the German 
North Polo Expedition in Greenland, and brought home by it from 
the abandoned huts of the Esquimaux. They probably belong to a 
comparatively recent time. 

The tools, weapons, vessels, and ornaments of the inhabitants of 
America probably remained unchanged for very long periods of time. 
Only the Mexicans made considerable progress in the latest period ; 
but we know that even they had not yet given up their knives of obsidian, 
although they might have made them of bronze. Montezuma himself 
wielded the terrible Mexican sword, the edge of which was composed 
of pieces of obsidian, and you can even to-day admire his stone battle- 
ax in the Ambras collection. 



ANCIENT HISTORY OF NORTH AMERICA. 431 

The objects found in tlio N^ortli are chiefly arrow-heads, as might be 
expected iu the case of a people of hunters and warriors. In the col- 
lection before jou, there are specimens of the various shapes, some 
scarcely an inch long and having a rounded point, while others are more 
than three inches in length. Precisely similar in shape and material, 
(the latter being pure quartz, flint, chalcedony, jasper, rock-crystal,) 
only larger, are the lance-heads. The royal mineralogical cabinet is in 
possession of a magnificent arrow-head of pure rock-crystal, evidently 
of American origin. It is remtirkable that many lance and arrow heads 
slant unequally on the two edges, so that the arrow or lance would 
assume a rotary motion on being discharged. 

The knives were also made of flint and obsidian by breaking them ofl:' 
from suitable blocks by means of a single blow. They difler iu no way 
from the European. The Indian wedges are also like those found in 
Europe, a circumstance that need not surprise us in an instrument of 
so primitive a nature. The specimen before you, with its rounded sides, 
was taken dii^ectly in the hand, and used to skin larger animals. 

The hatchets, of which three specimens are before you, are of a shape 
peculiar to x\.merica. They are provided with a deep groove under the 
neck running around the sides, into which was fitted a foi'ked branch 
forming the handle. From their frequent occurrence we conclude that 
they were the most usual weapon, which was later and only gradually 
supplanted by the iron tomahawk. Hammers with holes to receive the 
handle are rare. 

Among the other stone instruments, the grindstones differ also from 
the European, being of the shape of stones used for rubbing up colors. 
Larger disks, concave on both sides, were probably used in games, and 
smaller ones of various shapes, and j)ierced with holes, may have served 
as ornaments. The oval stone before you, with a groove running all 
around it, may either have been a piece of ornament, or a sinker for , 
a net. 

Which shapes and which material belong to the earlier, and which to 
the later times, will jjrobably be determined only after long researches. 
Dr. Dickerson, of Philadelphia, claims an age of three thousand five 
hundred years for these arrow-heads, which were found in one of th« 
Mississippi States. Among them you i)erceive half-finished and spoiled 
l)ieces. Those made of quartz corresi:)oud in shape with the iron 
arrows (►f the present day, of which you also have a specimen before 
you ; they are, therefore, very likely the more recent. Among the 
metallic utensils, we must first mention the copper hatchet, an imi- 
tation of the stone wedge attached to a club like the Celtic ax, 
a chisel, and lance-heads. Among the ornaments are perforated copper 
idates, concave disks, objects resembling buttons, small round disks of 
thin coi)per plate, or wire for stringing on a thread, like pearls. The 
copper was doubtless taken to Central America from the Lake Sujierior 
copper region. 

The inhabitants ©f Mexico and Central America had made gieat prog- 



432 ETHNOLOGY. 

ress in the working of gold, silver, copper, and tin. They made not 
only weapons and ornaments of metal, bat also vessels showing a high 
degree of skill. They alloyed copper and tin, and manufactured bronzed 
utensils, to which they imparted considerable hardness by hammering. 
But the arrow-heads and knives of obsidian remained in use at the same 
time ; the latter probably in consequence of their being used, in the 
terrible human sacrifices, to open the breast of the victim and cut out 
the heart. Immense numbers of such obsidian knives, as well as arrow- 
heads and chips, are still found in various localities. A mountain dis- 
tinguished for the large number of these objects is still called " the 
mountain of knives." The inhabitants of the Mississippi Valley ob- 
tained the obsidian arrow-heads from Mexico in exchange for other 
articles. 

The pipes are peculiar to America. They are called mound-pipes, 
on account of their being found almost exclusively in the altar-mounds. 
The Indians were in all probability the first smokers, and so great was 
the esteem in which thej' held the enjoj'ment derived from it that they 
devoted more labor and skill upon their pipes than upon their weapons. 
The pipes are of stone, with a base in some cases 5 inches long, one end 
of which forms the stem. The bowls are in the center of the base and 
are about 1 or 1^ inches high. These bowls are in most cases fashioned 
in imitation of human heads, with all the characteristics of the Indian 
race upon them, or various animals, which are so faithful that they can 
be recognized at once ; a fact which is the more surprising, since the 
pipes are fashioned of a single piece of very hard stone. The pipes of 
baked clay found in New York and elsewhere seem to belong to a later 
period. 

The Indians of to-day also devote considerable attention to the 
adornment of their i)ipes. Many are cut from the red pipe-clay of the 
West, which was discovered by the celebrated artist and ethnographer 
Catlin. The beds of this clay were considered as on neutral ground by 
the Indians. . 

Among the other objects, which I have only time to name, are needles 
and bodkins of bone and horn, pearls of bone and of various shells, 
genuine pearls, perforated claws of eagles and bears, teeth of wild-cats 
and of the shark, perforated bits of mica, and the like. The vessels 
of clay, however, require a more detailed consideration. They also 
show some resemblance to the products of the corresponding era in 
Europe. They were all fashioned without the potter's wheel ; in m'any 
cases baskets of willow or rushes served as models. They were cov- 
ered inside with clay and placed with it in the fire. Thus the wicker- 
work left its impression on the outside of these vessels. This method, 
according to Catlin, was still practiced in the present century. In 
some southern localities pumpkins were covered with clay on the out- 
side, and the whole placed in the fire. 

A great number of the vessels, like the olde/ European ones, had a 
round bottom, and could only be used for hanging up by means of a 



ANCIENT HISTORY OF NORTH AMERICA. 433 

projecting edge. Their forms are as various as their dimensions. The 
material consists of a bhick chiy, mixed, as in Europe, with quartz sand, 
or, as is the case more frerpiently, with more or less linely pulverized 
shells. Sometimes the clay is used without any admixture. In the West 
Indies the pulverized bark of two trees, Hirtclla silicca and Moqnilca, is 
used in. the place of sand. Tliis bark is very rich in silica, and produces 
vessels of a very tine grain, fragments of which are found in large num- 
bers in all settlements, and especially at tlie places of manulacture. 
One of the latter was discovered' and described some years ago by 
Charles Kau. 

That the Mexican porcelain vessels should show a higher order of 
skill, might be expected after what has been said. A Portuguese writer, 
during the first years of the Spanish rule, declared that they were in no 
way inferior to those of Europe. 

Although it is not denied that there is no reason for distinguishing 
in America between a paheolithic and a neolithic period, there are, 
nevertheless, authenticated facts which might lead to such a distinction. 
One of these is the discovery of human bones together with those of 
extinct species of animals near Natchez, IMississippi. Another is the 
discovery of a human skeleton under several layers of submerged 
forest formation in the Mississi]»])i delta, near New Orleans. Still an- 
other is the presence of human bones in a limestone conglomerate 
forming a part of the coral reefs of Florida, whoJse age is estimated at 
ten thousand years by Agassiz. 

Unfortunately there has been so much exaggeration in America, 
along with trustworthy reports, that caution is necessary in accepting 
as true unusual statements, even when they have a scientilic coloring. 
' From the report of the German archieologist, Dr. Koch, on the 
mastodon * found in Gasconade County, Missouri, it is beyond doubt 
that man existed in America as early as that animal. In another case 
flint arrow-heads were found along with bones of the mastodon in an 
undisturbed deposit; and at the Pomme de Terre Eiver, Missouri, a 
mastodon skeleton, together with an arrows-point, as found covered with 
15 feet of alluvium. 

Finally, I must state that there is scarcely a subject which excites 
the interest of American scientiiic men so much as the ancient history 
of their continent. Let me call your attention to the liberal support 
which they enjoy, the existing collections in every large city of America, 
the efforts of the Smithsonian Institution, and the donation of the 
great philanthropist, Peabody, who appropriated £100,000 sterling to 
the establishment of a nuiseum of Indian antiquities. 

The greatest collection of American antiquities in Europe is that at 
Salisbury, England; and in America that of the Smithsonian Institution. 
Dr. Dickerson has also a very large collection of which he is about to 
IHiblish a catalogue. 

* I must state, however, that Lyell assigns much less antiquity to the Aiuerican than 
to the Eui'opean mastoclou. 
28 S 71 



ox THE LIXGFAGE OF THE DVKOTA OR SIOUX IXDIANS. 



By F. L. O. Kceiihig. 



In the year 1866 tlie writer of this article spent tlie interval from tlio 
4tli of Jnly to the 2Gth of November in constant intercourse with the 
Dakota or Sioux Indians, near Fort Wadsworth, Northern Dakota 
Territory. 

Previously to his going to that out-of-the-way region he had hapi)ened 
to make himself in some measure acquainted with the languages of 
several of the Indian tribes, particularly with the Chippewa tongue ; and 
he then at once directed his attention to the language of those Indians iu 
whose immediate neighborhood he Avas going to reside for a while, 
namelv, the Sioux Nation, or Daliotas, 

It would take a whole volume to record his varied experience with 
those interesting tribes and the result of his ethnological and linguistic 
researches during the time he lived among them. On this occasion, 
however, he will content himself with presenting to the reader only 
a very few faint and cursory glimpses of merely such matters as may 
arise in his recollection, and as pertain to the language of these i)eople. 
It is hoped that his elucidation of desultory topics of this nature will 
not prove altogether uninteresting to the ethnologist or j^hilological 
inquirer. 

Whenever any new truth is presented for our comprehension, or any 
new subject for our study and investigation, almost invariably the first 
thing for the human mind to do, and that, too, from an inherent craving 
for logical classification, is to inquire as to what other known truth 
the less known can possibly be linked; to what chain or scries of 
analogous phenomena it necessarily belongs ; in what accredited system 
it has to take its place ; with what whole or totality it is connected as a 
part; and we seem never to be fairly at ease before we have arrived at 
the point of grouping or classifying the matter in some way or other. 
This applies also and particularly to languages. As soon as a new lan- 
guage begins to attract our attention, we feel at once an eager desire to 
classifj' it, so nmch so tliat we often cajmot patiently wait even during 
the time necessary to collect the indispensable material from which 
alone we could possibly draw anj- legitimate conclusions in this respect. 
We at once ask what other tongue such language is like; with what 
other it maybe compared; where among the languages of the world 
it has to take its place, &c., and hence the often over-hasty classifica- 
tions based upon mere casual and apparent resemblances. It is first of 
all necessary, in such cases, to be able tairly to survey a language in aU 



ON THE LANGUAGE OF THE DAKOTA OR SIOUX INDIANS. 435 

its relations ; in its manifokl diversities, its dialects, and, if possible, also 
in its varions and successive phases of development, in its primary 
forms or its original condition. 

So far as we know, the Dakota language, with several cognate tongues, 
constitutes a separate class or family among American Indian languages, 
of which we may speak on some other occasion. But the question at 
present is, whence does the Dakota, with its related American tongues, 
come? From what trunk or parent stock is it derived? Ethnologists 
are wont to point us to Asia as the most probable source of the pre- 
historical immigration from the Old World to this continent. Hence, 
they say, many if not all of our Indians must have come from East- 
ern or Middle Asia, and in considering their respective tongues, one 
must still find somewhere in that region some cognate, though perhaps 
very remotely related set of languages, however much the affinity exist- 
ing between the Indian tongues and these may have gradually become 
obscured, and in how many instances soever, througli a succession of 
ages, the old family features may have been impaired. But they further 
allow, of course, that these changes may have taken place to such an 
extent that this affinity cannot be easily recognized, and may be much, 
even altogether, obliterated. 

When w^e consider the languages of the great Asiatic continent, of 
its upper and eastern portions more particularly, with a view of dis- 
covering any remaining trace, however faint, of analogy with or simi- 
larity to the BaJcota tongue, what do we find "? Very little ; and the 
only group of Asiatic languages in which we could possibly fancy we 
perceived any kind of dim and vague resemblance, an occasional ai:ialogy 
or other perhaps merely casual coincidence with the Sioux or Dakota 
tongue, would probably be the so-called "Ural-Altaic" family. This 
group embraces a very wide range, and is found scattered in manifold 
ramifications through parts of Eastern, ISTorthern, and Middle Asia, 
extending in some of its more remote branches even to the heart of 
Europe, where the Hungarian and the numerous tongues of the far- 
spread Finnish tribes offer still the same characteristics, and an unmis- 
takable impress of the old Ural-Altaic relationship. 

In the following pages we shall present some isolated glimpses of 
such resemblances, analogies, &c., with the Sioux language as strike us, 
though we need not rej^eat that no conclusions whatever can be drawn 
from tliem regarding any affinity, ever so remote, between the Ural- 
Altaic languages and the Dakota tongue. Tliis much, however, may 
perhaps be admitted from wluit we have to say, that at least an Asiatic 
origin of the Sioux or Dakota Nation and their language may not be 
altogether an impossibility. 

In the first place, we find that as in those Ural-Altnic languages, so 
in a like manner in the Sioux or Dakota tongue, there exists that 
remarkable syntactical structure of sentences which we might call a 
constant inversion of the mode and order in Avhich tve are accustomed to 



436 ETHNOLOGY. 

tliiuk. Thus, more or less, the people wbo speak those languages 
would hcgiu seuteuces or periods where we end ours, so that our thoughts 
would really appear iu their iniud as inverted. 

Those Asiatic languages have, moreover, uo jj^repositious, but ouly 
;ws<positions. So likewise has the DaivOTA tongue. 

ThQ pohjsynilietic arrangement which prevails throughout the majority 
of the American Indian languages is less prominent, and decidedly less 
intricate in the Dakota tongue than in those of the other tribes of this 
continent. But it may be safely asserted that the above-mentioned lan- 
guages of Asia also contain at least a similar polysynthetic tendency^ 
though merely in an incipient state, a rudimental or partially devel- 
oped form. Thus, for instance, all the various modifications which the 
fundamental meaning of a verb has to undergo, such as passive condi- 
tion, causation, reflexive action, mutuality, and the like, are embodied 
in the verb itself by means of interposition, or a sort of intercalation of 
certain characteristic syllables between the root and the grammatical 
endings of such verb, whereby a long-continued and united series, or 
catenation, is often obtained, forming apparently one huge word. How- 
ever, to elucidate this any further here would evidently lead us too far 
away from our present subject and purpose. We only add that post- 
positions, pronouns, as well as the interrogative particle, &c., are also 
commonly blended into one with the nouns, by being inserted one after 
the other, where several such expressions occur, in the manner al- 
luded to, the whole being closed by the grammatical terminations, so 
as often to form words of considerable length.^ May we not feel au- 
thorized to infer from this some sort of approa(;h, in however feeble a 
degree, of those Asiatic languages — through this principle of catena- 
tion — to the general polysynthetic system of the American tongues I 

We now proceed to a singular phenomenon, which we should like to 
describe technically as a sort of " redupUcatio intcnsitiva.''^ It exists iu 
the Mongolian and Turco-Tartar branches of the Ural- Altaic group, and 
some vestiges of it we found, to our great surprise, also in the language 
of our Sioux Indians. 

This reduplication is iu the above-mentioned Asiatic languages 
applied particularly to adjectives denoting color and external qualities, 
and it is just the same iu the Dakota language. It consists in prefix- 
ing to any given word its first syllable in the shape of a reduplication, 
this syllable thus occurring twice — often adding to it (as the case may 
be) a "i>," &G. 

The object — at least in the Asiatic languages alluded to— is to express 
thereby, in many cases, a higher degree or increase of the quality. An 
example or two will make it clear. Thus we have, for instance, iu Mon- 
golian, Mara, which means hlael; and KHAp-/Jmm with the meaning of 
very black, entirely black; tsayan, ichite, Tii\i)-tsayan, entirely ichite, &(:., 
and iu the Turkish and the so-called Tartar (Tatar) dialects of Asiatic 



ON THE LANGUAGE OF THE DAKOTA OR SIOUX INDIANS. 437 

IJussia, l-ara, hlacl', and KAp-A-ar«, very hJaclc ; sary, ycUoic* aud SAp- 
aary, entirely yelloiv, &c. 

Now, iu Dakota, wc find sajya, blacl; and v.itli tlio reduplication, SAj^- 
sapa. The reduplication here is, indeed, a reduplication of the syllable 
sa, and not of s«^^, the word being s«-pa, and not sap-a. The "^> " iu SAp- 
sa2Xf is inserted after the reduplication of the first syllable, just as we have 
seen in the above I'ura and KAii-lara, &c. 

In the Ural-Altaic languages " »i" also is sometimes inserted after the 
first syllable; for instance, in the Turkish heya.r, white, and T^YAM-bcyaz^ 
very white, &c. If we find, however, similar instances in the Dakota 
language, such as c'ejM,^ which means Jieshy, (one of the external qual- 
ities to which this rule applies,) and cBm-cepa, &c., we must consider 
that the letter "?>4" is in such cases merely a contraction, and replaces, 
moreover, another labial letter ("j»") followed by a vowel, particulaiiy 
" «." Thus, for instance, coin is a contraction for copa, gam for gaj^a, 
liawi for inxpa, ske?» for skepa, om for opa, torn for topa, &c. So is cem, 
in our exam^)le, onh' an abridged form of cepa ; hence " w" stands here 
for "j; " or "j^^rt," and belongs essentially to the word itself, while in those 
Asiatic languages the "wi" is added to the redui)lication of the first syl- 
lable, like the "j;" in KAp-Aytrrt, &c. We have, therefore, to be very care- 
ful iu our conclusions. 

The simple doubling of the first syllable is also of frequent occurrence 
in Dakota; for instance, gi, brown, and gigi, (same meaning;) sni, cold, and 
snis>ii; Jco, quieh, and lioko, &c. 

There are also some very interesting examples to be found in the 
Dakota language, which strikingly remind us of a remarkable peculiar- 
ity frequently met with in the Asiatic languages above adverted to. It 
consists in the antagonism in form, as well as in meaning, of certain words, 
according to the nature of their vowels ; so that "«lien such words contain 
what we may call the strong, full, or hard vowels, viz : «, o, u, (iu the con- 
tinental in-onunciation,) they generally denote strength, the male sex, 
affirmation, distance, &c., while the same words with the weak or soft 
vowels e, i, — the consonantal sJceleton, frame, or ground-tcork of the word 
remaining the same, — express weakness, t\i(} female sex, negation, proximity, 
and a whole series of corresponding ideas. 

A few examples will demonstrate this. Thus, for instance, the idea of 
'■'■ father^'' is expressed in Mantchoo (one of the Ural-Altitic langnage.s) 
by ama, while '•'■ mother'''' is cme? This gives, no doubt, but a very in- 
complete idea of that peculiarity, but it will, perhaps, be sufiicieut to 
explain in a measure what we found analogous in the Dakota language. 
Instances of the kind are certainly of rare occurrence in the latter, aud 
we will content ourselves with giving here only a very few examples, in 
which the above difference of signification is seen to exist, though the 
significance of the respective vowels seems to be just the reverse; which 
would iu no wise invalidate the truth of the preceding statement, since 



438 ETHNOLOGY. 

the same inconsistent alteration or anomaly frequently takes place also in 
tlie family of Ural-Altaic languages. [For furtlicr developments, see the 
Notes at the end of this article.] 

Thus we find in the Dakota or Sioux language, hEpaq, (second son of 
a family,) and hApay, (second daughter oi 1^i•^im.i\y -,) ciij, elder 6ro</ier,cUi), 
elder sister-,'^ cii^ksi, son, cUyksi, daughter, &c. Also, the demonstratives 
koi}, that, and kii^, this, the, (the definite articles,) seem to come, in some 
respects, under this head. 

To investigate the grammatical structure of languages from a compar- 
ative point of view is, however, but one part of the work of the philologist ; 
the other equally essential part consists in the study of the words them- 
selves, the very material of which languages are made. We do not, as 
yet, intend to touch on tbe question of Dakota words and their possible 
afQnities, but reserve all that pertains to comparative etymology for some 
other time. The identity of words in different languages, or simply their 
afSnity, may be either imuiediately recognized, or rendered evident 
by a regular process of philological reasoning, especially" when such 
words appear, as it were, disguised, in consequence of certain alterations 
due to ti'me and to various vicissitudes, whereby either the original 
vowels, or the consonants, or both, have become changed. Then, also, 
it frequently happens that one and the same word, when compared in 
cognate languages, may appear as different parts of speech, so that in 
one of them it may exist as a noun, and in another only as a verb, &c. 
Moreover, the same word may have become gradually modified in its 
original meaning, so that it denotes, for instance, in one of the cognate 
languages, the genus, and in another, merely the species of the same thing 
or idea. Or it may also hapi)en that when several synonymous expres- 
sions originally existed in what we may call a mother language, they 
have become so scattered in their descent that only one of these words 
is found in a certain one of the derived languages ; while others again be- 
long to other cognate tongues, or even their dialects, exclusively. 

The foregoing is sufficient to account for the frequent failures in es- 
tablishing tlie reUitionship of certain languages in regard to the affinity 
of all their icords. 

On this occasion it will be enough to mention, in passing, as it were, 
one or two of the most frequently used words, such as the names of 
father, mother, &c. 

In regard to these most familiar expressions, we again find a sur- 
prising coincidence between the tongues of Upper Asia (or more ex- 
tt'nsively viewed, the Ural-Altaic or Tartar-rinnish stock of lauguagesj 
and the Dakota. 

Father is in Dakota ate ; in Turco-Tartar, ata ; Mongolian and its 
branches, ctsii, etsige ; in the Finnish languages we meet with the 
forms attje, atd, &c.; they all having at {=et) as their radical syllable. 
Now, as to mother, it is in the Dakota language ina ; and in the Asiatic 
tongues just mentioned it is ana, aniya, inc, eniye, &c. 



ON THE LANGUAGE OF THE DAKOTA OR SIOUX INDIANS. 439 

Again, we find in tbe Dakota or Sioux language taiyin, wliich means to 
appear, to he visible, manifest, distinct, clear. Now, we have also in all 
the Tartar dialects tai), tang, which means, 1st, light; hcjice, dawn of 
the morning; 2Ci, understanding. From it is derived tojw, which is the 
stem or radical part of verbs meaning to render manifest, tomalce known, 
to Icnow ; it also appears in the old Tartar verb-stems tang-{la), meaning 
to understand, and in its mutilated modern (and western) form, ang{la), 
without the initial " f," which has the same signification. We may 
mention still mama, which in Dakota denotes the female breast. We 
might compare it with the Tartar meme, which has the same meaning, 
if we had not also in almost all European languages the word mamma, 
(==: mama,) with the very same fundamental signification, the children 
of very many ditferent nations calling their mothers, instinctively, as it 
were, by that name, {mamma = mama, &c.f 

We may also assert that even in theformation of words we find now and 
then some slight analogy between certain characteristic endings in the lan- 
guages of Upper Asia and the Dakota- tongue. Thus, for instance, the 
termination for the '■'■nomen agens,^'' which in the Dakota language is sa, 
is in Tartar tsi, si, and dchi ; Mongolian tclii, &c. We also find in Dakota 
the postposition ta, (a constituent part of ekte, in, at,) which is a locative 
particle, and corresponds in form to the postpositions ta and da, and 
their several varieties and modifications, in the greater part of the Ural- 
Altaic family of languages. The same remark applies in a measure to 
the Dakota postposition e, which means to, toward, &e.'^ 

In pointing out these various resemblances of the Sioux langnage to 
Asiatic tongues we in no wise mean to say that we are inclined to believe 
in any aflinity or remote relationship among them. At this earl^- stage 
of our researches it would be wholly preposterous to make any assertions 
as to the question of affinity, &c. All tliat we intended to do was simply 
to bring forward a few facts from which, if they should he further corrob- 
orated by a more frequent recurrence of the phenomena here touched 
upon, the reader might perhaps dra\v his own conclusions, at least so 
far as a very remote Asiatic origin of the Dakota language is concerned. 
Further investigations in the same direction might possibly lead to more 
satistactory results. 

After having hitherto considered the Dakota or Sioux language 
somewhat in connection with other tongues, we shall now say a word 
more about that language viewed independently, in its own natural 
growth and development. 

Voicel changes, although far less imi)ortant in themselves than conso- 
nantal permutations, occur very abundantly in the Dakota language. 
Changes of that kind bear to each other nearly the same relation that 
the English "and" bears to the German " wnd," &c., only that those forms 
exist, and are contemporaneously used, in one and the same language. 
Thus, for instance, the Dakota Indians call the Iowa tribe "ayiiliba," as 
well as " iyiiliba,'- (the sleepers) ; the verb Ho mimV^ is in Dakota "awacii} ^ 



440 ETHNOLOGY. 

as well as " ewaciij ; " " y?/krn)pi," as well as " yrdvOiipi," is used to express 
are, (of the verb " to hcP) We have also double forms of words, differ- 
ing only in the vowel they contain, such as kpo, kpe, {lasting, durable, 
&c. ;) kt«, kte, {to Icill ;) spa, spe, &g. 

Sometimes, however, the ditFerence of a vowel occasions also some 
slight modification in the meaning; for instance, onataka and inataka, 
both implying the same idea, only the former being the verb, the latter 
the noun; wowiuihar), aive ; wawinihai), aicfiCl ; oskopa, arch; and 
askopa, arched, &ii. 

In the Dakota language, we must add, it is of the highest importance 
that the philologist should, when comparing words with different 
vowels, be exceedingly careful not to see in them always merely double 
forms of one and the same expression. For, in this language it often 
happens that syllables which differ only in their vowels are neverthe- 
less sometimes of an essentially different origin, and may denote ideas 
wholly heterogeneous, and thus enter as parts into compounds in all 
else similar to each other. Thus, for instance, wada s'a means a beggar ; 
woda s'a means the same. Nevertheless, they are different compounds, 
the former meaning simplj^ one who aslsfor something, icho hcgs, while 
the first syllable of the latter, namely, wo, is an entirely different word 
from ^c«, and means ybofZ; so that woda s'a alludes to begging food, beg- 
ging for something to eat. Equal caution is necessary when comparing 
words like the following, which in their constituent parts are by no 
means identical, viz: yawaste and yjtwaste, both meaning to bless. 
They have both the word 2caite, good, in common ; but y«-waste means 
literally to call good, and yw-waste to male good. The same is the case 
with yrttaijin and y«taqin, which means to disclose; y«onihai] and y«o- 
nihai), to glorify ; yaliepa and yidiepa, to imbibe, and a great many others. 

We close these remarks with a few words on the harmonious character 
of this language. Vowels undergo changes not only for the purpose of 
expressing various modifications of the original meaning, but also for 
mere euphonic reasons. Tliere is, in fact, a gri'ater tendency in the Da- 
kota language to bring about a constantly harmonious, smooth, graceful, 
and easy flow of speech than in almost anj' other of the known Indian 
tongue. Thus, we frequenth" find the vowel a, for the sake of euphony, 
changed to e; and for the same reason, any possible hiatus carefully 
avoided by elisions, while semi-vowels are frequently inserted where 
two vowels would otherwise come into immediate contact with each 
other and impair the harmoniousness of the sound. Contractions 
are also used for the same i)urpose, and the accent or stress of voice 
moves, according to certain laws, from one syllable to the other in the 
inflectional changes which a word undergoes, whereby the language 
becomes often very pleasing and majestic. Indeed, if a comparison 
were allowed of the widely-dilfereut but far more flexible and varied 
Chippewa, and our more slowly-moving, grave, and manly Dakota lan- 
guage, we would venture to compare, as far as euphony and sonorous- 



ON THE LANGUAGE OF THE DAKOTA OR SIOUX INDIANS. 441 

uess are concerned, tlie former with tlie Greek and the latter with the 
Latin language. In regard to the accent, we may also mention that in 
some instances difference of accentuation in a word is, in Dakota, 
resorted to as a means of distinguishing homophouous expressions with 
different meanings, such as, for instance, would be in English present 
and to present or in German "gebet," (give ye,) and " gebet," (prayer;) 
or in Greek '>£oroz«? and ft-soToy.oq^ &c. Thus, in Dakota, hilta means the 
root of a tree or plant, while hutd denotes the shore of a river or lalce, also 
t\\Q edge of a prairie or wood. Consonants also often undergo changes 
merely for the sake of enpliony, thus, gutturals become palatals, and 
the change of Ic to c (tch) is of frequent occurrence, though in all such 
cases care is taken not to obscure tliereby the indication of any etymo- 
logical changes which words may have undergone, either by combina- 
tion or inflection. 

We often find double forms of a word simultaneously existing, one of 
them, however, being the older, the more complete; the other, the more 
recent but already decaying and impaired form, wliich finally will 
supersede the former, and remain alone in use. Thus, to give a simi)le 
instance, chosen from a great number of similar examples, frequently' 
very complex, intricate, and obscure, wlpi, in Dakota, means fuU; 
but in the coexisting form, ipi, full, the "w" has already begun 
to disappear, although both forms, wipi and ipi, are used, and will be 
until the former (tcipi) becomes by degrees obsolete.'^ Other instances 
are, woniya and oniya, {breath;) ^Yipata and Jpafa, (ornament;) 
wihdi and ihdi, [grease, ointment ;) Vt^oiuha and oiuha, [a hag,) &c. We 
must, however, be very careful not to mistake the significance of " «5'" in 
such forms where, in one, its presence constitutes simply an addition to 
the word, a sort of formative prefix, and, in the other, its absence is in 
nowise an elision, for it is frequently found used as an element in the 
ibrmation of certain derivatives or compounds. Thus, for instance, the 
prefix "?('«" before a word commencing with a vowel becomes reduced fo 
a simple ''?{\" in consequence of the elision of "«," for euphonic reasons. 
It may also happen that the "lo" serves to distinguish certain modifica- 
tions in the meaning of a word, so that the two forms, though closely 
related, can no longer be considered as altogether identical. Instances 
of this kind are, ^\opetOl^ and opetor), two verbs which are, indeed, often 
confounded with each other, and used indiscriminatelj^ to express trad- 
ing ; while, however, strictly speaking, opetoi) means to purehase, to hug, 
to hire, and v^^opetoi), to hug, but also to hug and sell, to trade. Woica, 
to paint, to ivrite, forms, by the addition of '^p'h'^ tlie usual ending of 
verbal nouns, the word icoivapi, which means a writing, a hoolt ; while 
owapi means more particularly a picture, something that is painted or 
lettered, though these differences do not always seem to be kept distinct, 
icotcapi being, in the Dakota dialects, used also for painting, picture, for 
a letter, a sheet of paper ^ &c. The letter "/i," at the beginning of words, 
frequently disappears likewise; thus we have the double forms ui and 



442 



ETHNOLOGY. 



i, {to come;) necoq aiitl ecoi), {to do;) unaslca aud ncdJca, {a frof/;) ucicn 
and eoen, {.such as,) &c. We also find, in some instances, that conso- 
nants are dropped at the end of words, as in the double forms helctcaf 
and helcta, {bade,) &c.; "/v" also disappears not vinfi-equently, which 
accounts for the double forms kw and m, {to come,) &c. K may disap- 
pear also in the middle of words; thus we have IcaKt and l-ai, {to carrij,) 
&c. It sometimes happens that when " A;," in the middle of a M^ord, is 
followed by "i," this syllable "/it" is dropped; hence, we have double 
forms, such as iKiuij and iui], {to anoint;) ilKiijitwl and iiyuivi, {to bridle,) 
&c. But the greatest care is necessary not to confound this "Ai" 
with the grammatical syllable "fci," which is inserted in verbs to impart 
to them a more definite meaning, and is particularly incorporated in 
verbs indicating a special relation to or for whom anythiiig is done; as, 
for instance, oyalca, {to tell;) oKiyalca, {to tell to one, to somebody;) 
thus, omciKiyalca, {tell me,) &c. 

We have in the Dakota language also a very interesting system of 
consonantal permutations. Thus, among the liquids, a frequent (and 
often ahnost optional) interchange of I and n; for instance, boy 
is in the Dakota holcsiha and /tofcs/'Na, {I and oi;) or, if we wish to compare 
the dialects of that language with one another, we have in Yauktonais 
L,iL,a for " very ;'''' in the Titoq dialect the same ; in Sissitori jS^iNrt, {I and n 
again interchanged.) Also the liquids n and m are interchangeable, 
often ad libitum., even within the limits of one and the same Dakota 
dialect; thus, for instance, the English preposition "oh," ^'■ujjon," is in 
Dakota " akaw" as well as " akawt," «&c. 

We have in the Dakota language also a frequent interchange of k and 
t,^ as, for instance, iiqn and i'rpi, both forms being used to denote belly, 
abdomen. Thus, ceKjpa, which means navel, twin, may assume a double 
form in'the comijounds hoMiccKpa and hoMiceTjia, where Jc and t inter- 
change with each other without afi'ecting the signification of the woid 
iu any way*whatever. Other examples are oKpaza and oTpaza, meaning 
darlcness, night ; wiyaKpaivjya aud wiyaTpaTpa, signifying to glisten, to 
glitter, \&c. This change takes place especially where the h or t is im- 
mediately followed by p. The permutation above adverted to, between 
1: and c, {teh,) is also of frequent occurrence. It not only takes place iu con^ 
sequence of certain euphonic laws, but it would seem to be also optional, 
as we find douTjle forms of one and the same word, the one with /;, the 
other with 6 ; as, for instance, iKute and icute, meaning ammunition, &c. 
K interchanges also with y, as, for instance, iu the double forms Kamna 
and Yamna, meaning to acquire, &c. Then, ag;ain, y interchanges 
with c ; thus hoksixopa and hoMido^m,^ meaning child. K interchanges, 
moreover, with p; for instance, Kasto and vasto, {brush,) &.c. K inter- 
changes also \yith b, as i\.ato\]ta and B«/oij/rt, {notch,) &c. Then, we fur- 
thermore observe that labials interchange with each other ; for instance, 
b with p, as Bago and Pago, two forms of one aud the same verb, mean- 
ing to carve. Also, the labials p and m are seen to interchange with 



ON THE LANGUAGE OF THE DAKOTA OR SIOUX INDIANS. 443 

eacli otlier; thus, navJcawii) aud naisihtwlx), {to hcclcon icith the hand,) &c. 
There are also iustauces of a permutation between p and t, such ii82)cUisve 
aud 2JctusTc, {a Jirc-brand,) «S:c. Also t aud s sometimes interchange with 
one another, as in IcTai] aud Ickii), which mean curved, whence the com- 
pounds yuJiTai) and yiilcsai), meaning literally to mal-e curved or to 
bend, &c. It now and then happens that such consonantal interchanges 
take place, and are, moreover, accidentally coinplicatcd by a transposition 
of the consonants in question; for instance, opTai/e and osvai/e, &c. It 
is important to take all these various changes into careful consideration 
when we wish to identify words in their different appearances, their in- 
numerable protean transformations, and often surprising modes of dis- 
guise, and to trace their origin, derivation, and various afiinities. 

In regard to the derivation and composition of words, the Dakota or 
Sioux language is particularly clear and transparent. Derivations can 
be traced with great facility, and in the matter of the formation of com- 
pound words, this language is remarkably apt and Hexible. We will 
take this opportunity to present but a few iustauces of Dakota etymol- 
ogies, which will, however, be suflicient to enable the reader to form 
some idea of this particular subject. Ti means to dwell, to live in, and 
as a noun the same word means a diceUing-place, a house. With the 
addition of the substantive ending j;i, {tijn,) it means a tent, such as 
the Sioux Indians inhabit; while when cond)ined with the verb ojya, 
which signifies to go in, to enter, to go to, it forms tiyopa, (for tiopa,) 
which is a substantive and designates a door, a gate, an entrance. Da 
is a verb which means to form an opinion, to tliinli ; its longer form is 
dalia, with the same meaning. This word added to the adjective waite, 
good, forms the compounds wasteda and wastedaJca, yvhich mean to deem 
good, to tlmik well of -, hence, to love. On the contrary, when combined 
with sice, had, it forms the compounds siccda and sicedalca, which mean 
to consider had, and, by a natural transition, to hate. 

The word holU gives rise to a number of derivatives, of which we 
will here mention but a few. The Avord itself does not appear to b<5 
used independently ; but we may, perhaps, infer its fundamental mean- 
ing, when we consider a compound expression like hoksi-celcpa, which not 
.only means twins, but, in its i^robably more original signification, applies 
to a flower, and denotes a blue ivild Jiower which appears frst in the 
spring, the earliest spring-^ower, thus alluding to the first beginning of 
floral vegetation. In a similar acceptation, it seems to enter as the 
principal constituent part into all words exi)ressive of the idea of infancy 
and childhood, as holc&iyopa, a child =ho]ciiio2)a, the verb ojia, most prob- 
ably, with its meaning oifollou-ing, going along with; hohkidai), a boy, daq 
being a very common diminutive termination, alluding here, it seems, 
simply to the youth and small stature of a male during childhood, &c. ; 
holxsiwii) and holcsiwiiyna, a virgin. In the latter expression we distin- 
guish in the ending the word ivii), that by itself means, female, icomayij 
and iviiyna, which is its diminutive, and stands to it somewhat in the 



444 ETHNOLOGY. 

same relation as tlie Germa,n frUulein, a young unmarried woman, to frau, 
a icoman. 

The word gu means fo hum ; ^^nya is a causative form of gu, and means 
to cause to hum, to malce hum. This word appears also, and, it seems, in 
a more deiiuite sense, under the form agu, (with prefixed a,) to bum, 
and a^uya, to cause to hum. With the usual substantive-ending of ver- 
bal nouus, viz: ^1, aguyapi, means bread, as it were, something- burned or 
baJccd. With a similar import the radical letters br in our English word 
bread, German hrod, seem to refer to the same idea, as they appear also in 
Jiuennen, BRand, Biiatcn, Biiuhen, BUa.ue7i, Bnilten, Buunst, &c., in all of 
which expressions the idea of heat, if not of fire, is evidently implied.^** 

Intcrrogatives, which also in this language coincide in their form 
with relative and indefinite pronouns, present here the peculiarity 
of commencing, in the greatest number of instances, with t or d, while 
the demonstratives \)Qg\\\\f\ih Ic. For example: Twce, who ; Tal-u, what; 
Tohan, ichen ; Tohai), where ; Tona, hoic many, &c. And of the demon- 
stratives we may mention k«, that ; Kaki, there ; K«wa, these. Sometimes 
we find also the guttural softened down to a simple h ; as, for instance, 
TLena, the equivalent of Kana, these ; iichai), which means there, and an- 
swers to the above-mentioned tolm^, ichcre ; and ' nc/ufH, whicli means 
then, and responds to tohan, ichen. We may observe here, by the way, 
that in most of the other languages which come under our ordinary 
observation precisely the contrary takes i)lace, viz : guttural letters 
(which are also sometimes found replaced by their equivalent labials) 
serving to express the interrogative ; while t, d, th, commonly occur in 
the demonstratives. Thus, we have in Latin talis, iantus, tot, tarn, tnm, 
tm\(i, &c. ; in Greek, r6, roau:;, zort, &c. ; in English, f/iis, ///at, tlam, th^rQ, 
then, &c. ; and with the gutturals, in Latin, quis, quid, quahs, g«antus, 
q7tot,quam,q^m\n,&c.; in Greek dial., zw? = roig; 7.6ts = 7:6-£; ■/.6-tpoq-=T.6- 
repoc;, &c.^^ The samc phenomenon is remarked also, in a measure, in a 
great many other languages widelj" different from those last mentioned. 
We may state here, as a curious fact, that the Dahota mode of express- 
ing the more essential part in intcrrogatives by t or d, and what cor- 
responds thereto in demonstratives by k, obtains also in the language of 
Japan, where it constitutes indeed an eminently striking feature. It is 
true, /.• and t are interchangeable, and, in many instances, convertible 
elements in languages generally, but their functions are kept distinct 
and apart in the ]iarticular matter under consideration. 

We pass on to the Dahota word al:an, which means above. It is the 
same as alcaisi, and if not identical with, is at least related to alca\] ; just 
as we see, for instance, the double forms hahaisi and hahai), which mean 
then, there, so far, and one of Avhich has n where the other has i) ; that 
is, n, with only a nasal 'pronunciation. Now, the aA-ai), as an adjective, 
means also old, implying, no doubt, the idea of above, of superior to, (in 
stature or in years,) just as the Latin alhis reappears in the German alt, 
English eld, old. This akai^, or, per apfhoercMnf simiily hax}, appears also 



ox THE LANGUAGE OF THE DAKOTA OR SIOUX INDIANS. 445 

iii [be form of walcaiilca,^'^ an old woman. Alcai) reappears also under the 
forms {^Y)al•an aud ivai^lcan, meaning likewise above, ?/p, hifjh, superior, 
and being' nndoubtedly closely connected with the form {ic)aJi«i], since n 
aud 1} are interchangeable terms, (as shown in the above laiha's and 
l-(iJiai)); aud since certain derivates, moreover, are seen to conarm 
their intimate relationship, such as walrajii'iidapi, pride, haiifjhtincss, 
■where irali(U) evidently refers to real or fancied supcrioritjj, similarly 
to the Latiu su2)crlms, the French altier, &c. Perhaps icalapa also 
comes under this head, its meaning being to excel, to 6«>'piiss, to be 
SKperior to, or to be oZ^ore; ^ra/.Y'j^tt standing, according to all appear- 
ance, for ica1car)lic(])a, the hitt«r part of which would be the \erb Icapa, 
tojyot^s hij, fo go beyond. Thus the primary and fundamental meaning of 
icalen] (=«7i'ai), aham, alian) would be ichat is superior or above, a su2)e- 
rior something or being ; hence it means a sjnrif, a ghost, and, as an ad- 
jective, spiritual, supernatural, divine. It gives rise to the following 
expressions: mini-icalMi), w^hich signifies alcohol, brandy; as it were, 
spirit-U'atcr, or spirituous liquor ;^^ icalcax) tanlca, the Great iSpirit, inean- 
ing God; n-al'ai) si6a, evil spirit, meaning demon, devil ; ivowapi icahai], 
literally spi)'it booh, or spiritual, divine booh, tiie Dakota name for the 
Bible; iipi-wahai], which means a chapel or church, literally .'pirit house, 
sacred house ; ivi6ake-u-ahai), a clergyman, prieU, literally a spiritual man ; 
«S:c. Thus, also, the lightning is called a'alai)hdi, from icahai) (spirit) 
aud /;(?/, (to coine,) meaning, as it were, the coming down or arrival of a 
spirit. xVlso, the famous dance of the Sioux Indians, which is described 
as the Medicine-dance, viz: n-aha\) icacipi, simply means spirit-dance or 
sacred dance, and, as Eev. S. IL Eiggs expressly informs us in his Dic- 
tionary, is thus called especially from the fact that the high i)riests of 
the ceremonies spend the night previous iu singularmagic practices, aud 
are holding communion tcith the spirit icorld. Then, again, we have the 
woEd wahai) in compound verbs, such as iLmlmx] ha go, which means liter- 
all}' to mahe u-ahai), as it were, to attend the acts of tcorship or divine ser- 
vice; and u'aliai)e6o:)g means to perform supernatural acts, to do trichs of 
jugglery, of magic. A great error has been committed by travelers gen- 
erally, who, resorting, perhaps for information, to the stolid half-breed 
Sioux Indians, who are often still more ignorant, if possible, of English 
than the travelers are of the Dakota tongue, have ideutitied the idea 
expressed by the word wahai) aud everything therewith connected with 
that of the healing art, or medicine. To be sure, healing a disease, restoring 
a sufferer from sickness ti) health, is in the opinion of the wild Indian 
always and i)reemiuently a su]>ernatural, wonderful act, in which beings 
of a higher order directly participiitc, aud which is generally brought 
about by means of magical performances, conjuring, necromancy, and 
sorcery, rather than by the administration of remedies or other medi- 
cal appliances. There is no such thing as a ^'■medicineman"' among 
these Indians, and they have not even a word for it; for ivicaste-wahai), 
which has been erroneously taken for such, simply means a supernatural 



446 ETHNOLOGY. 

man, a spirit man, a magician, and tlie like, and has come subsequently 
to be applied to tha priest, clergyman, or missionary. An Indian doctor 
is called wapiye among- the Dakotas, wLiicli simply means a conjurer, and 
is derived from the verb wapiya, to conjure the sicJc, which in its turn 
comes from piJciya, to conjure. A i)hysician, or one who cures diseases 
by means oi medicine, is always called peiihuta-icid-astc, from jyeii, which 
means grass, also dry grass, herh, and huta, which denotes the root of 
trees or plants, so that the compound peiihuta, which properly means 
medicine, ^^ would signify literally lierhs and roots, and peiihuta- 
wicaste a herb-and-root man; which epithet is almost exclusively 
applied to American doctors resident in the vicinity of those In- 
dians and to military surgeons at the forts in their territory. Among 
these people the gathering of herbs and root, and the administration 
of such medicines are, indeed, not in anywise uncommon j it is, however, 
not at all the occupation of men, but of women. 

The word for mouth is i, whence is derived the verb ia, to spealc, which 
in its turn gives rise (by the addition of the ending ^n so common in the 
formation of verbal nouns) to the substantive iapl, speech, kmguage. 
(Thus Dalcota iapi, the Dakota language, properly the language of the 
companions, friends, or allies.) 

The verb lia means to curl. It is also used with the reduplication, viz: 
lirtlifl, as an adjective especially, to • denote curling, curled. The same 
when combined, with minl,^^ water, signifies c?«-?iH^ water; audtluis mini- 
lirtlirt is the usual word for a waterfall, a cascade generally. Often lirtlia 
alone is used to designate a waterfall; mini (water) being understood, just 
as we are accustomed in English to employ simply the word"/(i//,s" in the 
same sense. Thus the word lialJirtfMi)/re is used, meaning those who dwell 
or live at the falls, the people around the waterfalls, an expression Avhich 
has become among the Dakotas the ordinary name of the Chij[)pewa 
j^ation.i^ 

To translate the word mini\\a\ia (or erroneously written '■'■ minne- 
haha''Y' by laughing waters, seems to be a gross mistake, most probably 
the result of imperfect information derived from some half-breed Sioux 
Avho Avas perhaps asked, (the inquirer Avroiiglj' analyzing the word,) 
" What is meant by ?;i/uHe P^ To which the response was doubtless, '^Mini 
means water. " " And what does ihaha signify "?" The answer to which 
must liave been: "iru/Iunncans to laugh.'''' (No doubt / signifying 7«o?^f//, 
and lirt, to curl; iha and iWaWa mean to curl the mouth or the li2)s, that is, 
to laugh.) When Rev\ S. R. Riggs, in his otherwise very excellent Da- 
kota Dictionary, explains i\\a]\a hy ^^ to laugh along as rapid water, the 
noise of u-aterfalls,'''^^ he is unconsciously led astray b}" that current 
popular error. In fact, such an interpretation is founded on nothing, 
and is prima facie quite contrary to all right etymology.'^ And to do 
justice to Mr. Kiggs, for wliom we profess the highest esteem, and who 
is without any comparison the best grammarian and lexicographer who 
has ever yet appeared in the domain of Am^iiucan Indian philology, we 



ox THE LANGUAGE OF THE DAKOTA OR SIOUX INDIANS. 447 

will state tliat he likewise explains (in his dictionary) lialia by '■^ water- 
falls, so called from the cukling waters.^^ 

Our views on this subject, as on various other similar matters, were, 
moreover, fully approved by Rev. T. S. Williamson, another distin- 
guished missionary, and a highly respectable authority as regards the Da- 
kota language, with whom we had many a long conversation on such 
topics every time we happened to meet with him in the territory. 

Much might yet be done in investigating that inost interesting lan- 
guage, in a strictly philological manner, and also tracing particularly the 
many Dakota names of mountains, hills, rivers, lakes, &c., to their true 
origin and meaning. They almost always contain some attractive allu- 
sion, something legendary or traditional, which might lead to most val- 
uable results in regard to the history, religious ideas, ancient usages, 
&c., of this largest and most powerful of all the Indian tribes of ]S'orth 
America. 

We now say, in conclusion, that on this continent, researches in phi- 
lology, ethnology, and history should have for their main object the lan- 
guages and nations of Ameimca. The field is comparatively new and 
exceedingly interesting ; an immense deal has to be done in this domain, 
the real labors of thorough and exhaustive investigation having not even 
yet begun. If these unpretending page-^ contributed by the author aS 
his first mite to that kind of research which he wishes to see undertaken 
by the scholars of this countr}', serve as an incentive to others to inter- 
est themselves in these studies and devote some of their time and exer- 
tions to the same, his object will have been successfnlly attained. 



:^OTES. 



^ Such intercalations are, in a measure, almost analogous to the usual 
insertion of the many incidental clauses in long Latin or German sen- 
tences, if we are allowed that comparison. 

2 c stands in the present transcription of the -Dakota language for 
tch ; s for sh ; rj for nasal n; dotted letters indicate a peculiar emphasis 
in their utterance, for Avhich we have no precise equivalent in English. 

^ Other examples in Mantchoo are liuUa, menuing male, cod, while 
kckc means hen, &c. These phenomena are, in their last analysis, redu- 
cible to a fixed principle, which still prevails, to some extent, in the 
above-mentioned group of Asiatic languages, and which we have some 
reason to believe once formed an essential part of many other tongues. 
We might perhaps not iaiproperly recognize in that antagonism some- 
thing of 2Jolar opposition, some law of polarity. There are distinct and 
polarly-opposite correlative vowel-classes, viz : a, o, u, in the continen- 
tal pronunciation, which are, as it were, positive, and e, i, which are neg- 
ative. Sometimes, however, the reverse takes place, so that e, i, have 
the power and significance of a, o, n, and vice versa, (a quasi " inversion 
of the poles.") This division is not an arbitrary one, but — we remark 



448 ETHNOLOGY. 

this by the waj' — tbe classification results quite uaturally from a cer- 
tain antagonistic relation of these vowels, respectively, to the guttural 
letters, their very test and touchstone. According to the nature of 
these vowels, the word receives often its characteristic meaning in those 
Asiatic languages; hence, only vowels of the same class occur in one 
and the same word. It would lead us too far from our present subject if 
we should now elucidate more fully the phenomenon under consideration, ^ 
We wish to make only a few remarks more. This peculiarity extends to 
adjectives and to verbs — qualities, (positive or negative, as the case may 
be,) actions, and states of being ; even to postpositions, &c., (direction, 
tendency, &c.) We could, indeed, illustrate it by hundreds of examj)les, 
especially in the Central-Asiatic languages, even in the Celtic tongues, 
particularly the Irish. We might point out a very considerable num- 
ber of such instances finally de])ending on a certain principle of vowel- 
harmony. Even in our own ancient and modern languages we can now 
and then discover some slight and obscure vestiges of that perhaps 
originally quite extensive phenomenon of significant vowel antagonism. 
For instance, in the Greek ij-av.p-vq, and p-v/.p-oq ; v-6 and l-i-^ the article 
6 and ^ ; roi and r?; ; -(>•> and r-zyV; ''Ap-rjq and ^'Ep-tq^ &c.; in Latin, in 
c«l-idus and gd-idus ; perhaps, also, in the fundamental form homiu 
and ft'uiin, (implying hcmin : f=h, as in Span. Aembraj) in Hebrew, 
^*^n and x^n; Arabic jp and (^ ; \m and h?, (S:c., and other expressions 
of contrast, negation, or opposite tendencies generally. We also find 
in German st«mm and stimm — referring to the voices or its absence; 
in English, the verbs to step and to stop, &c. 

•* Though it is almost evident that 6u\} has not a separate and inde- 
pendent existence in the language, but is always found combined with 
pronominal suffixes, such as 6ui]liii^ {her elder sister,) we nevertheless 
meet also compounds like the following: 6iir)Jja, to have for an elder sister. 
We may, therefore, safely conclude tliat cuq in ciiijhu and the verb 
cuiyya is the word which designates an elder sister. Moreover, the form 
cin)1cu has a parallel expression in ciijcu, which means Ms elder brother ; 
and as 7iW is identical with 6u in consequence of a very common con- 
sonantal 2>ermutation, it becomes obvious that c»q, indeed, means elder 
sister, as ciy is known to signify elder brother. 

^ In the Grusinian language, mama menus father — an apparent anom- 
aly, owing, perhaps, to a mere interchange of the labials, passing here 
over into their extremes. Another shifting of the labials, though less 
in extent, we find in the Asiatic tongues, where we also meet with baba, 
for father, /a/a for mother, &c. 

'^ By means of such postpositions the declension of nouns is effected 
in the Ural-Altaic languages. The Dakota cases of declension, if we 
can use this term, amount likewise to a very rude sort of ag(jlntination, 
or rather simple adding of the postpositions to the nouns. There can 
be here no question of any real iufiection or declension, since there is 
throughout only a kind of loose a^Zhesion, and^ nowhere what we might 
call a true cohesion. The postpositions are in the written language 



ox THE LANGUAGE OF THE DAKOTA OR SIOUX INDIANS. 449 

added to the nouns without being conjoined to them in writing, (except 
thephiral ending j^?*,) as is also the casein the Mongolian language, the 
Tui'co-Tartar dialects, and other tongues of this class. 

■^ We see in the historical developmeut of our own modern languages 
an abundance of similar phenomena ; thus in resi)ect of the mere qiiasi- 
mouumeutal, and, as it were, fossil existence of labials, such, for in- 
stance, as b, 11 ; and in regard to English words like debt, which in 
French long ago became dettc. In English the h ot dcht {=dehiium) 
has become only sileut, while in Fr'^r-ch, on the contrary, it has now no 
tolerance whatever, Qxeu as an histoi'ical landmark. There is, in tact, 
more conservatism in English. The French appears a more volatile, 
changeable element, even in the minor details of the language. Thus, 
again, Ave have in English the word doubt, with petrified silent 6, which 
the}' seem unwilling, as yet, to let go, while in French we have doufe 
without that b. Many other examples might be adduced in .support of 
this very simple and common fact in all languages. In sejit, (se\xm,) the 
French still neglect ridding their language of that now useless silent^;. 
They do, it seems, not affect such antiquities, and will, most likely, do 
with words like sejit as they have done with clc/] (clavis,) where the 
final labial/ became gradually silent but was left untouched. It is even 
noiv allowed to remain^ but another form has already come into use at 
the same time with it, and a I'ey is now a-days cUf and cU: 

^ This interchange is seen in almost all languages of one and the same 
family, when compared with each other ; thus, for instance, the use of 
Ti instead of t constitutes one of the characteristic differences betvreen 
the Hawaiian tongue of the Sandwich Islands and the language of Ta- 
hiti, the Marquesan, Earotangan, &c., both groups, however, belonging 
to the Malayo-Oceanic, or more particularly the Micronesian stock. 

^ c stands here for a letter that does not strictly belong to the word, 
viz. y, which is merely inserted euphonically between lioldl and opa. 

^^ We venture this derivation so much the more boldly, inasmuch as 
the etymology of bread, hrod, «&c., is, in a degree, still an operi question, 
Grimm connecting it — though not particularly insisting thereon — with 
broel-en, brechen, to breal-, &c., while Anglo-S;ixou scholars endeavor to 
trace the English word bread to breadan, (to nourish,) which, however, 
seems rather to be a denominative verb,- such as lighten from light. 
Their etymological attempts being mere opinions, mere assertions with- 
out proof, we feel encouraged to maintain ours. 

^1 The T in the Greek r^'c is only an apparent exception to it, as is well 
understood by those conversant with the facts of comparative grammar. 

^^ There is some room left for an attempt to derive wahaijlca direct 
from tval-ai). The ideas possibly underlying such a derivation would 
appear to us rather far-fetched and fanciful. 

^^ Other Indian tribes call alcoholic liquor /rc-water instead of sjririf- 
water, as, for instance, the Chippewas, in whose language it is ishlmle 
u-abu, &G. 

^■^ The word peiihuta is also apijlied to various other vegetable esseu- 
i'9 s 71 



450 ON THE LANGUAGE OF THE DAKOTA OR SIOUX INDIANS. 

ces, beverages, &c. Thus, coffee is called x^eiihuta sapa, literally, J>/ac& 
medicine ; just as the Chippewas express it in their language hj malcade 
masJiMM icabu, (black medicine water.) 

^^ The word mitii (water) is the same M'hich is contained also in the 
name of Minnesota^ (properly mini-sota,) meaning whitish water, and refer- 
ring to the Wa]q)a minisota, which is the Minnesota or St. Peter's River, 
and also to the Mde oninisota, the so-called " Clear Lake." 

^^ It is often the case that Indians give to other nations names simply 
derived from some entirely external, merely accidental, and altogether 
unessential circumstance or quality in thesfe strangers, which at first 
princii)ally struck their attention. Thus, for instance, the inhabitants 
of the United States are called by the Dakotas Isavitanka, meaning Big 
Knives; by the Chippewas, Idtchimolioman^ which likewise signifies Big 
Knives, probably from the swords of the United States soldiers in the 
Territories. 

^" Just in the same way, the erroneous orthography of " Minnesota" 
was introduced for the more correct Minisota ; and this is seen again — 
we mention it in passing — in that monstrous Dakota-Greek compound, 
"Minneapolis," meaning " Watcrtown." 

^^ Any such meanings of ihaiia, as " to huhhie " and making a noise 
like that of tcaterfalls must be considered simply as secondary, as a 
mere extension of the original signification of that word, viz. laughing, 
t+]l«]i«, mouth-curling, as it were; nothing whatever being contained in 
the constituents of that word which could have even the remotest refer- 
en{;e to u-ater or a cascade. The word itself seems to follow this devia- 
tion from its projjcr import, being even difiereutly accentuated in that 
sort of figurative acceptation, viz. ihaiia instead of ihdha. 

^^ Similar blunders frequently occur. Thus, in the erroneous and un- 
meaning English translation of Indian names generally — for instance, 
of " Hole-iu-the-Day " — in which word it was intended to express simply 
one who (as a powerful archer) perforates the sly with his arrows, which 
we could easily place beyond any doubt, if it would not lead us too far 
from our present subject. So have travelers, too, themselves put the 
words " squaw,''^ "jjajjws," &c., into the mouths of the Dakotas, though 
these words belong exclusively to widely different tribes, and are on 
other occasions again rei)eat<?d by the Dakota Indians to strangers, as 
they simply suppose such words to be English, and, therefore, more in- 
telligible to the latter ! The same applies to the Chippewa word " «/to," 
{he died or ^s- dead,) which travelers, probably deeming it the general 
and only Indian term for that idea, taught, as it were, to the Dakotas, 
wlio constantly make use of it in their conversation with Americans, 
mistaking it in turn and in like manner for an English word, or some- 
thing more easily accessible to the mind of the strangers. 



METEOROLOGY. 



[Tbe following notes, derived from correspondence or from observa- 
tion and reflection, are especially intended for the meteorological ob- 
servers of the Institution principally in the way of answering queries, 
wliich have been frequently propounded. They may, however, be found 
of interest to the general reader. — J. n.] 



METEOKOLO(iY OF PORTO RICO, 

Mr. Oreorge Latimer, from Pliiladelpliia, one of the correspondents of 
the Institution, who has resided on the island of Porto liico (rich in 
gold) since 1S34-, informs us that the northeast trade-winds prevail on 
the island every day of the year from about o^clock in the morning 
until sunset ; while at night there is a strong land-breeze toward the 
ocean on -all sides of the island. The latter is stronger, however, on the 
west end and on the north side, winch is probably owing to the greater 
slope of the land toward the sea in these parts. 

During the rainy season, which is from the end of May to the end of 
October, the rain falls every day on the western portions of the island 
from 2 o'clock until sunset. This, however, is not the case on other 
parts of the island, which is divided longitudinally by a range of mount- 
ains 3,000 or 4,000 feet in elevation. These mountains turn up the 
current of the trade-wind air containing vapor into the colder regions, 
and cause its precipitation in rain on the northern slope, while on the 
south the land often suffers from drought for more than a year without 
interruption. On this side of the island irrigation is resorted to, and 
for this purpose there even exists a project to tunnel the mountains to 
conduct the water of one of the rivers from the north to the south. 

Mr. Latimer states that occasionally there is a cessation of the ordi- 
nary trade-wind when the air becomes almost entirely calm or light 
winds arise, which go entirely around the compass in the course of a 
few honrs. This state of things frequently continues several d;iys, and 
from these, as signs, Mr. Latimer has always been able to jnedict that 
a gale is blowing at the north. After the existence of a calm of ocean 
and air there invariably comes a heavy rolling sea from the north, so 
heavy that vessels cannot leave the harbor of Saint John, or load in any 
of the other ports on the northern side of the island. Also after this, 
in the course of a few hours, or in other cases after two days, comes 



452 METEOROLOGY. 

a strong nortlieiiy wind, the return of the regular trade-Nvind, witli much 
greater intensity than usual, and vessels arriving after short passages 
bring the intelligence of the i)redicted gale and its disastrous conse- 
quences. 

Colored bands diverging from the setting sun in the west, and con- 
verging to an opposite point in the east, are frequently seen through 
the summer and autumn in great beauty. 

Eemarks. — The rainy season in the northern tropics takes place when 
the sun, having a northern declination, heats in the greatest degree the 
land during the day, producing ascending columns of air, which, carry- 
ing up the vapor it contains into higher and colder regions cause it to 
be precipitated in rain, the precipitation commencing as soon as the 
heat from the sun begins to diminish a little after midday. The phe- 
nomenon mentioned hj Mr. Latimer in regard to the occasional cessa- 
tion of the trade- winds may possibly be connected with the occurrence 
of storms on the continent of aSTorth America, or perhaps with the re- 
markable wind known in Texas as the " norther." This wind prevails 
from the Mississippi River to the Kio Grande and commences about the 
1st of September and ends about the 1st of May. The day previous is 
marked by an unusual warmth and closeness of the atmosphere and an 
almost perfect calm. Tlie first appearance of the tempest is a cloud in 
the north, which approaches the observer sometimes with great. and at 
other times with less velocity, and frequently passes over his head in a 
series of arches composed of dense clouds separated by lighter portions. 
The thermometer frequent! 3' falls 30 degrees. On one occasion recorded 
the temperature fell in the course of three hours from 75° F. to a 
degree sufficient to produce ice an itich thick. After a day or two the 
norther is followed by an unusual cold wind from the south, as if the 
norther were returning. It is said to be most intense near Corpus 
Christi, Texas, and that it does not occur in Florida. 

The norther is probably due to a stratum of air along the border of 
the Gulf, abnormally moist and consequently heated, produced by a 
surface current from the south, which gradually attaining a state of 
unstabh' equilibrium is suddenly forced upward into a higher region by 
a heavier wind from the north. The violence of the wind, and conse- 
quently the intensity of the cold, will depend ui^on the distance north- 
ward to which the moist stratum extends previous to its overturn by 
the heav}' air from the north. The norther, it is said, is not felt at sea 
in the Gulf. This would indicate what we would readily suppose, that 
the greatest rarefaction of air due to heat and moisture takes place over 
the laud along the borders of the water. — [J. H.] 



THE GREEN RIVER COUNTRY. 453 

METEOROLOGY OF THE GKEEN RIVER COUNTRY. 

By Colonel Collins. 

Colouel Collins lias been for three years in the Wind and Green River 
country. The Green River becomes the great Colorado of the west, 
which empties into the Golf of California, and the Wind liiver becomes 
the Big- Horn, and runs into the Yellowstone, which in turn empties 
into the IMissonri. It often happens that rivers in the western part 
of the United States have different names in different parts of their 
course, and this appears to be especially the case when a^ river passes 
throngh a canon ; the fact not being known before exploration that it 
is the same stream at the two ends of the chasm. 

The climate in the region above mentioned is very dry, electrical 
appearances being manifest in currying horses (u- brushing clothes, and 
dew is very seldom seen. Along the Wind River range the storms come 
from the northwest and follow the chain to the southeast. On some of 
the high peaks of this region there is often seen a cIoud-c!![> renmining 
stationary sometimes for a day or more, while a high wind is prevailing 
at the same time on the plains and valleys below, with a clear atmos- 
phere in all other parts of the sky. The ca}) appears compact and dis- 
tinct in outline and perfectly stationary. The peaks of the Wind River 
range are all covered with perpetual snow. There are no trees on the 
plains, or anywhere in the vicinity, ex(;ei)t on the mountain-sides from 
their base up to near the snow-line. 

Frost at the foot of the mountains and in the valleys occnrs almost 
every night during the summei\ On the 4th of July, 3 8(52, at tlie camp 
at the head of Sweet-Water River, the ice was formed from half to three- 
quarters of an inch thick. The summer frost, although it does not kill 
the hardy grasses, will not allow the cultivation of grains and vegetables. 
Heat and moisture, the two essential conditions of growth, are wanting, 
though, in the very deepest valleys, perhaps, grain could be raised by 
irrigation, since the temperature in these is considerably higher than on 
the mountains. 

The winter was exceedingly cold; at Fort Laramie in 1SG4 the mer- 
cury was frozen and continued solid on the •ith of Januiuy for four 
hours ; on the 5th fifteen, and on the 0th for twelve hours, while in tile 
warmest part of each day the thermometer never rose above minus "20'^. 
" I had (command," says Colonel Collins, " at the time, of Fort Laramie, 
and had great difficulty in keeping the garrison warm. Fuel had to be 
drawn a distance of about fifteen miles. Every winter a number of 
men were frozen to death, being usually overtaken by snow storms. 
When the greatest cold occurs the air is perfectly still and very trans- 
parent — the transparency is so perfect that objects are seen a long way 
oft' with such distinctness as to give rise to mistakes as to their actual 
distance. 



454 METEOROLOGY. 

" It should not be forgotten that the base of tbe Wind River Mount- 
ains is about 8,000 feet above tbe level of tbe ocean, and bence the 
coldness drjmess and rarity of tbe air. Notwithstanding the grea"^. 
elevation of tbe region there are some very hot days in sumujer, tbough 
tlie mornings and evenings are cool. 

" Tbe general course of tbe wind is from the west, especially when it 
is violent. Tbe currents are, liowever, modified by tbe mountain ranges. 
In some of tbe higher gorges a strong wind constantly prevails from 
the west, wbich is especially tbe case at Fort Halleck at tbe foot of 
Medicine Bow Butte, at the main bead of Medicine Bow Kiver. This 
fort is at about 8,300 feet above tbe level of the sea, and situated in a 
pass, with a high mountain on tbe south, and elevated laud on the 
north, Tbe direction of tbe wind is continually the same in winter and 
summer, namely, from the west, or that of tbe return trade, probably 
somewhat modified by the configuration of the surface. lu tbe plains 
between the mountains tbe snow is immediately blown into tbe ravines 
by the violent wind, leaving the general surface bare. So constant and 
annoying is tlie wind that I advised that Fort Halleck should be aban- 
doned. It is impossible to secure hay for tbe cattle ; as soon as tbe grass 
is cut it is blowu away. For tbe same reason great care is required in 
drying clothes. 

" Tiie storms are terrific, and in some cases, when they occur, it is im- 
possible to ride against the wind. Tbe snow is extremely fiue, mingled 
with air, moving with the currents, and presenting no appearauce of 
falling flakes. It cuts the face like line sand, and blinds the traveler. 
The horse or mule cannot be made to face the blast, particularly the 
latter, but will always turn from it. 

" Tbe streams, fed by tbe peri)etual snow, are always full in summer. 
In the winter they are frozen solid. Thunder-storms are not frequent, 
but when tbey occur they are often attended with hail. Tbe quantity 
of AVater which falls is small. Evaporization is very rapid. When game 
is killed it can be hung up and soon becomes so dry at the surface that 
flies cannot lay their eggs in it ; a quartan- of deer will in this way re- 
main sweet for a week in tbe warmest weather. The soldiers rely very 
uHich on deer, buffalo, ducks, and geese, which are readily preserved. 
When going on a march tbey prepare a supply of what is called jerked 
meat, which consists of flesh cut into thin strips and placed over a 
smouldering fire to drive away tbe insects and afford a small quautity 
of smoke. The meat dries so rapidly that it becomes as bard as a stick 
in the course of two or three days. 

"The most violent storm I experienced occurred about the last of 
February, 1802, wbeii Ave made an excursion to tbe southwest after the 
Indians, w'ho had made an attack upon the mail-line and one of tbe 
military posts. Tbe storm commenced on tbe third day of tbe Journey. 
It was not very severe at first, but increased in intensity until the third 
day of its continuance, when it was truly terrific. The party consisted 



DISTINCTION BETWEP:N TORNADOES AND TEMPESTS. 455 

of one liiiudred men ; two were frozen to deatli, and npward of tliirty 
badly frostbitten in tbeir extremities. Tbe snow filled the air to snch 
an extent that the conrse conld only be followed by keeping at a certain 
angle with the wind, or, in. other words, by adopting the direction of the 
wind as a course of reference. 

"The mnle is a less hardy animal than the horse, and often freezes 
standing, so that at first sight, and at a little distance, they appear alive 
and rnminating, but might be pushed over in a. solid condition, the legs 
stretched ontlike the legs of an overtnrned table. In summer the horses 
and mules are fed on grass, which is very sweet and nutritious, I 
had about eight hundred head of oxen, and one thousand sheep. The 
best meat was that from the old cattle which had l)een pastured for 
about a year." 

Remarks. — The facts which Colonel Collins has here stated are inter- 
esting in regard to general meteorology. The existence of the constant 
wind from the west, in these elevated passes, is in strict accordance 
with the assumption of a return trade-wind, giving rise to a constant 
westerly current at elevated points in the temperate zone. It is this 
wind which carries all the meteorological phenomena, eastward in the 
temperate zone, and thus forms the basis of the prediction of the 
weather. 

That the snow should be very fine is also in accordance with the fact 
of the small quantity of moisture in the air and the intense cold. The 
snow, for the same reason, is small in quantity on the plains. The 
absence of thunder-storms is also in accordance with the fact of the 
small amount of moisture in the air. 

The cloud-cap mentioned is probably produced in a similar manner to 
that at Table Mountain at the Cape of Good II()i)e, by a moist wind 
blowing over the top of the mountain, which, on ascending to a certain 
elevation, precipitates its moisture in the form of visible vapor, which is 
again dissolved on descending the other side, producing the api)earance 
of a stationary cloud, though it is constantly in the process of forming 
on one side and dissolving on the other. — [J. H.l 



DISTINCTION BETWEEN TOKNABOES AND TEMPESTS. 

Lamark, in a paper ])ublished many years ago in the Journal de 
2)hijsiqHe et cldmic^ points' out the distinctions between a tornado and 
a tempest. The following, according to him, are the characteristics of 
the tornado : 

' 1. The effects produced at the surface of the earth take place under 
an isolated cloud which moves with the storm, and is in some way con- 
nected with the disturbance of the atmosphere which constitutes the 
phenomenon. 

2. The tornado moves over the surface of the earth in a narrow path. 



456 METEOROLOGY. 

the middle of wbicli is marked by the greatest destructive effect of the 
motion. 

u. The effects of the tornado at any one pUice are x^roduced in a very 
short time. It passes over different points of its path with great 
rapidity. 

4. It commences at a given place with a crash, and passes off as sud- 
denly into a calm. 

5. The tornado, even the most violent, seldom lowers the barometer 
but little, and sometimes produces no appreciable effect in this way. 

G. The tornado is generally accompanied with discharges of electricity, 
with large quantity of rain falling in a few minutes, and frequently 
with hail, (sometimes in two tracks, one on each side of the path of the 
meteor.) 

Character of tempests according to the same author : 

1. Tempests are of great extent ; they are not accompanied by an 
isolated cloud as is the case with the tornado, but with one of apparently 
unlimited extent. 

2. Moderate tempests continue sometimes ten or twelve hours, while 
the most violent ones in some cases continue thirty-six hours, with 
slight intermissions in the greatest intensity. 

o. All tempests are connected with the falling of the barometer, even 
to the extent in some instances of an inch and a half. 

4. The tempest does not come on suddenly', but manifests its approach 
by a gradual fall of the barometer, and an increase of the velocity of the 
wind. 

Eemaeks. — The fact stated in regard to the fall of the barometer in the 
case of the tempest, and not in regard to the tornado, is very important 
as bearing on the different characters of the two meteors. It would 
ai)j)ear to indicate that the tornado is not only of limited extent horizon- 
tally, but also in a vertical direction ; that it consists of a violent overturn 
of two strata of different density, the one rushing upward through a cir- 
cumscribed space, and the other descending probably around the same 
space, so that the sum of the two pressures remains the same, while in 
the case of the tempest the air rises over a large space, and Hows over 
at the top of the atmosphere. — [J, H.] 



AtCOli\T OF A TOR\ADO WHICH OCCIKRED IN SPRUCE CREEK VALLEY, 
CENTRE COUNTY, PENNSYLVANIA. 

By the Ekv. J. B. Meek. 

Spruce Creek Valley is situated in the Alleghany range, and extends 
in a southwest and northeast direction between Tussey's Mountain on 
the northwest and Bald Eagle Mountain on the southeast. My resi- 
dence was in the bottom of this valley near the south side. The fore 
part of the dwy on which the tornado took placft was very warm, moist, 



TORNADO IN SrRUCE CREEK VALLEY, PENNSYLVANIA. 457 

and sultry, or what is called close. A fiieud who had been our guest, 
prepared to leave our house a little after 12 o'clock at noon to cross 
Bald Eagle Mountain into Stone Valley, wbich lies next to Spruce 
Creek Valley on the south. I had concluded to go with him, when my 
wife advised that, if we did go we should take with us umbrellas and 
overcoats, for she was sure, from the feeling of the atmosphere, that a 
storm was impending. Her warnhig was not disregarded in reference 
to the protections from wet and cold, and we had good cause before my 
return to be thankful for her forethought. We left the house about 
half past twelve and commenced to ascend tlie side of the valley by a 
steep path on horseback ; the air was very oppressive and our progress 
slow. When we got about two-thirds of the way up the side of the 
mountain we heard heavy thunder at a distance, and saw the rellection of 
vivid light [iing in a northwesterly direction from over the other side 
of the dividing ridge which separates the valley in which we were 
from the one next on the north. These indications of a storm con- 
tinued with increasing intensity until we reached the crest of the mount- 
ain, when, turning around, we were presented with the appearance of a 
dark circumscribed cloud at a distance of about eight or nine miles. It 
occupied about 15 or 20 degrees of the horizon, and exhibited such an 
unusual and threatening appearance that we almost involuntarily re- 
mained stationary, as if spell-bound by the phenomenon. It was very 
dense, and strangely agitated by a rapi<l vertical commotion near the 
middle of the mass, while it was almost incessant!}^ traversed with dis- 
charges of electricity in different directions, mostly vertically, accom- 
panied with heavy peals of thunder. Its direction of motion was 
diagonally across the valley from the northwest to the southeast. As 
it came over the crest of the opposite mountain it appeared to touch 
the surface of the ground; no clear sky was seen between it and the 
earth. From the crest of the ridge it seemed to precipitate itself sud- 
denly down the slope of the mountain, and almost instantly to hide froni 
our view all objects on that side of the valley ; as it came near our 
point of viev>' the character of the internal commotion became more 
apparent, and when it was directly opposite us, or in that point of its 
path which was at right angles to our line of vision, we perceived that 
the wind, which before, while the cloud was approaching us, had been 
blowing from us toward the tornado, was now moving in the opposite 
direction, and that the commotion in the interior of the cloud was much 
more astonishing. It consisted of a violent and very rapid shooting- 
upward in the middle, turning outward and downward on the exterior 
of columns of mist. The velocity of the upshooting columns was ex- 
ceedingly great, even as they appeared from our point of view at a dis- 
tance of four miles. The mass of the cloud had a dark leaden hue, but 
the tops of the upmoving columns, where they projected above the gen- 
eral surface, were white. The whole presented the appearance of a boil- 
ing caldron violently agitated. When the tornado was directly oppo 



458 METEOROLOGY. 

site to us it did not appear as dark as when it was approacliiug us, 
which would indicate that it was not of equal dimensions, but of greater 
width in the line of its motion. 

The movement of the tornado across the valley was exceedingly 
rapid; it did not occupy certainly thirty minutes in traversing a line 
nearly straight of about fifteen miles in length. Tlie ridge of the mount- 
ain on the side of which we stood was not above GOO feet above the 
bottom of the valley, and the storm-cloud did not appear more than 
double that height above us. During the passage of the tornado our 
ears were constantly impressed with a heavy roaring sound, like that 
of the Falls of Niagara, in unison with which jieals of thunder in 
rapid snccession were mingling. The cloud appeared to be generated 
in place as the tornado advanced; indeed, it might be likened to 
an immense locomotive-engine passing rapidly over the valley, belching 
forth smoke and steam. After the tornado had disappeared over the 
opposite ridge, the whole valley was left covered with a cloud, from 
which rain continued to fall during the night. 

The path of the tornado was marked on the ground of the bottom of 
the valley by prostrate trees and other evidences of violent action. It 
was variable in wultli, being from 100 to 150 yards across. The trees 
were mostly thrown down on each side of the axis of the path, a 
larger number on the north side than on the south, about, perhaps, in 
the ratio of three to one. The path was generally straight and^t)f uni- 
form widtli, with occasional short bends, as if the tornado had in some 
places made a sudden lateral movement. Although the princi[)}i] vio- 
lence of the meteor was confined to the breadth mentiojuMl, yet on each 
side, for a quarter of a mile, trees were thrown down in the direction in 
which the storm was advancing. The effects on the northern side or 
sloi)e, where the tornado entered the valley, were scarcely perceptible, 
while on the southern slope, or where it left the valley, tliey were very 
marked. On the northern side it appeared to leap down from above to 
the bottom of the valley immediately below ; at this point its first 
prominent mark was made upon a mill-pond, which it entirely emptied 
of water, sweeping it completely out, and even throwing up from the 
bottom sticks and stones which had long been sunk in the nmd. The 
most striking effects were, however, those produced in the lowest parts 
of the valley, some traces of which could be seen several years after- 
ward. Its fury was not spent in Spruce Valley, but it left traces of its 
power for at least twenty miles on the other side of the ridge, in the 
adjacent valley. 

liEMARKS. — The account of this tornado, which was observed from a 
very uiuisually favorable position, is very instructive in regard to the 
cause of the phenonu^non. The two causes to which these remarkable 
couuuotions of the atmosphere have been referred, are electricity and a 
disturbance of the pneumatic equilibrium of the atmosphere due to an 
abnormal condition in regard to temperature and moisture. It is true 



TORNADO IN SPRUCE CREEK VALLEY, PENNSYLVANIA. 459 

that intense electrical excitement generally accompanies tornadoes ; bnt, 
while it is easy to see how this may be the effect of a commotion of the 
atmospliere, it is very difficult to understand, on the known principles 
of electiicity, how it can be the cause of such violent ])lienomena. 
Electricity generally exists in nature in a state of equilibrium, and the 
discharges which we witness are due to the restoration of the equili- 
brium, while, on the other hand, as it api)ears to me, all the jdienomena 
which are exhibited hud a ready explanation on well-known thermal and 
pneumatic principles. Let us first consider the condition of the atmos- 
phere previous to the coming on of the tornado. The air was close 
and sultry; that is, it was surcharged with moisture, which, absorbing 
the rays of the sun, rendered it unusually warm and abnornuilly light. 
If, in this condition, we suppose a stratum of colder wind from the north- 
v.est, the direction from which the meteor moved, to be passing above, 
wo shall have a condition of atmosi)here possessing the potential energy 
requisite to produce the phenomena observed. As the upper wind passed 
over the earth at a considerable elevatior, the natural equilibrium would 
be disturbed, a heavier stratum being above, a lighter one below. The 
equilibrium would be of an unstable character, and the sliglstest irreg- 
ularity at a given si)ot would induce the rushing up of the air at the 
point of least resistance, and a descent around this point of the heavier 
stratum. The column of agitation would be more circumscribed if a 
whirling motion were given the mass, and the whole would be carried 
forward by tlie motion of the n[)per current. The moist air would rush 
in below from all sides, and, ascending in the vortex and mingling with the 
colder stratum above, would instantly be converted into visible vapor. 
If the moist stratum had been sufliciently thick and the upward DU)tion 
sufficiently violent to carry the vapor above the snow-line of the lati- 
tude of the place, the drops of water would have been frozen, anxl 
probably thrown out on each side of the vortex, giving rise to two 
tracks of hail. According to this hy[)othesis the electricity is due to 
the condensation of the vapor, or, more detinitely, to the formation of a 
vertical water-conductor, of which the natural electricity is disturbed 
by the induction of the plus electricity of s[)ace, and the minus elec- 
tricity of that of the earth below. The great mechanical effects which 
are exhibited in tornadoes are readily accounted for on the principle of 
continued pressure or a succession of i'mpulses, as an illustration of 
which we may mention the effect produced by blowing on a light ball 
in a hollow tube. In this case the ball is followed by a (;ontinued pres- 
sure from one end of the tube to the other ; at every moment it receives 
a new impulse, which it retains by its own inertia, and finally leaves 
the tube with the accumulated effect of the Ibrce which is ap})lied to it 
through its whole course. In like manner, a stratum of air set in motion 
by the removal of pressure in front of it, while a pressure is continued 
in the rear, is impelled forward with an accumulating velocity, and 
finally acquires an energy sufficient to overcome obstacles of astonishing 



460 METEOROLOGY. 

resistauce. The results will be the less surprising when we recollect that 
a cubic yard of air at the surface of the earth weighs about two pounds 
avoirdupois, and that, cousequently, a stream of this fluid a quarter 
of a mile long, moving with high velocity, must possess au immense 
energy. 



EFFECT OF THE MOOX OX THE WEATHER. 

In answer to a letter on the subject. 

Since the form of the orbit of the earth is affected by the attraction 
of Venus and the other planets, as well as by our satellite the moon, 
they must in some degree also affect the form of the atmospheric cover- 
ing of the globe, and tend to produce tides which are of greatest mag- 
nitude when they are in opposition or conjunction with the sun : but 
whether these disturbances of the atmosijhere or those produced by the 
moon are of such a character as to give rise to the violent atmospheric 
commotions denominated storms, is a question which has long agitated 
the scientific world. 

The times and peculiarities of the meteorological occurrences are 
more varied and less definitely remembered than almost any other 
natural phenomena, and hence the large number of different rules for 
predicting the changes of the weather. The only way of accurately 
ascertaining the truth of any hyi^othesis in regard to atmospheric 
changes, is that of having recourse to trustworthy records of the weather 
through a long series of years, and it is one of our objects in collecting 
meteorological statistics at the Smithsonian Institution to obtain the 
means of proving or disijroving propositions of the character you have 
advanced. 

The moon, being the nearest body to the earth, produces the highest 
tide in the waters of the ocean, and must also produce the greater effect 
on the aerial covering of the earth. It has, however, not been satisfac- 
torily proved that the occurrence of the lunar tides is connected with 
appreciable changes in the barometrical or thermometrical condition of 
the atmosphere. The less pressure of the air, at a given place, ot 
account of the action of the moon, is just balanced by the increased 
height of the aerial column. 

The principal causes of the violent changes of the atmosphere 
are, I think, due to its instability produced by the formation and con- 
densation of vai)or. It is not imi)ossible, liowever, that when the air is 
in a very unstable condition on account of the heat and moisture of the 
lower strata, that the aerial tide may induce an overturning of the 
tottering e(iuilibrium at some one place in the northern or southern 
hemisplieie more unstable than the others, and thus commence a storm 
which, but for this extraneous cause, would not have happened. To 
detect, therefore, the influence of the moon, it wjU be necessary to com« 



GALES OF WIND AND APPEARANCE OF THE AURORA. 461 

pare simultaneously the records of tlie weather from day to day tbrough- 
out all the uortheru and southern temperate zones, and to ascertain 
whether the maximum of these changes have any fixed relation in time 
to the changes of the moon. The fact that the problem has not been 
considered from this point of view, may account for the failure, in the 
study of a series of records at a single place, to furnish evidence of the 
action of the moon. 

The changes of the moon take place at a given moment on every part 
of the earth; the greatest efitect of a lunar tide ought, tlierefore, to be felt 
in succession entirely around the earth in the course of about twenty- 
four and one-half hours. 

The i»roblem, however, has not been solved and cannot be determined 
by such casual observations as those which you narrate. I have not 
the least idea that the attraction of Venus produces any a])preciable 
effect. It is too small to produce a result which would be indicated by 
any of our meterological instruments. 

I am far from subscribing to the justice of your remarks in regard to 
Mr. Espy, since I have a great respect for his scientific character, not- 
withstanding his abberation, in a practical i)oint of view, as to the 
economical production of rain. The fact has been abundantly proved 
by observation that a larg'e fire sometimes produces an overturn in the 
unstable equilibrium of the atmosphere and gives rise to the beginning 
of a violent storm, but it was not wise in him to insist on the possibility 
of turning this principle to an economical use. — [J. 11.] 



CONx\ECTIOX OF GAIES OF WIND AND APPEARANCE OF THE AURORA, 

By R. T. Knight, of Piuladklphia. 

"An officer of the British navy states that from eleven years' observa- 
tion, six years in the Arctic regions and five years in the north of Scot- 
land, he has ascertained that tremendous gales follow from twelve to 
twenty -four hours after the appearance of the aurora borealis.'' I never 
thought proper to call your attention to the above extract from the Phil- 
adelphia Ledger of the 4th instant, because it agrees with wh;it I pub- 
lished in 1804, and also in 18G5. 

Eemarks. — We have had frequent communications from observers 
suggesting a connection in the time of the appearance of the aurora 
borealis and the occurrence of storms of wind and other meteorological 
phenomena; but on referring to our records we have never been able to 
verify the existence of such connection. On the receipt of the foregoing 
communication the records of the Institution were examined in relation 
to this subject, with the following results : 

1. From the log-book of the brig Advance, Haven's Arctic expe- 
dition, forty-six appearances ot the aurora were followed b}^ four storms. 



462 METEOROLOGY. 

2. From tbe log-book of the yacht Fox, Sir Leopold McCliutock's Arc- 
tic Exploratiou, eighty-nine appearances of the aurora were followed by 
eighteen storms within the time sj)ecified in the foregoing rule 5 or, in 
other words, the cases in ftivor of the rule were eighteen, while those 
against it were seventy-one. 

3. In an examination of the records of the observations of Professor 
Caswell at Providence, Rhode Island, it was found that in seventy-two 
cases the assumed rule failed, while only in seventeen cases did it ap- 
l^ear to be sustained. — [J. H.] 



ACCOUXT OF A STOKM IN BUTLER COUXTY, KANSAS, JUNE 23, 1871, 

By W.m. Harrison, of Elporado, Kansas. 

The storm came from the northwest, from the plains, striking the 
northwest corner of Butler County. It seemed to be abouf ten or twelve 
miles wide. Many forest-trees were blown down and twisted off; houses 
and crops were very much injured or entirely destroyed. The violence 
of the storm seemed to be greatest about the town of Eldorado, in which, 
almost every house was more or less injured. I think at least fifty 
houses were entirely destroyed. The walls of the court-house, which 
are of stone, withstood the storm, but the roof, which was of tin, was 
blown off entire, and covered up a blacksmith-shop about a hundred 
yards distant. Many people in Eldorado were injured, and two children 
were killed. The injury was not done by blowing people away, but by 
dashing them violently to the earth. Its violence was so great that no 
one could stand on his feet. It passed Eldorado in a southeast direc- 
tion, doing great injury to the crops, and blowing down almost every 
house which was directly in its path. The storm consisted of rain and 
hail as well as of wind. The rain was unprecedented in this region. No 
wooden-built house, however well constructed, was proof against its 
driving intensity. The water in the streets of Eldorado was a foot deep. 
I can form no estimate of the damage to buildings, fences, cattle, crops, 
&c., but it is very great. Almost every one in the path of the storm 
was more or less injured. One house was blown down in Chelsea. I 
had a small house in Eldorado which was demolished, a part of it car- 
ried three hundred yards to the river, and then carried down the stream. 




SEE PAGE 309, KEPOKT FOR 1869. 



CONTElSTTS 



Page. 

Order of Congress to print the report 2 

Letter from the Secretary submitting report to Congress 3 

List of Kegeuts and members ex officio of the Institution 5 

Officers of the Institution 6 

Programme of organization 7 

Eepokt op the Secret AiiY 13 

Finances 13 

Virginia stock 13 

Publications 14 

Kules of distribution of publications 18 

Exchanges 18 

Freight facilities 19 

Regulations for exchanges 20 

Library 21 

Donations to the Library 21 

National Library 22 

Meteorology 23 

Explorations and collections 26 

Distribution of specimens 31 

Collaborators 31 

Correspondence 34 

Miscellaneous items 35 

National Museum 37 

Catlin collection 40 

Appendix to the Eepop.t of the Secretary 42 

Entries in Museum record-books in 1870 and 1871 42 

Distribution of duplicate specimens .^,, 42 

Additions to the collections in 1871 43 

Statistics of literary and scientific exchanges 51 

Packages sent from America to foreign institutions 52 

Packages received from Europe to, etc , 54 

List of meteorological stations and observers 63 

Meteorological material received in 1871 and kept in the Institution 75 

Meteorological articles received by the Institution, deposited in the Library 

of Congress in 1871 80 

Eeport of the Executive Committee 99 

Receipts 100 

Expenditures 101 

Approi)riation8 from Congress 101 

Estimates for 1872 102 

Journal of Proceedings of the Board of Regea^ts 103 

GENERAL APPENDIX. 

Memoir of Sir John Frederick William Herschel, by N. S- Dodge 109 

Eulogy on Joseph Fourier, by M. Arago 137 

Professor Thomas Graham's Scientific Work, by William Odling 177 



464 CONTENTS. 

Page. 
Ox THE Relation of the Physical Sciences to Science in General, by Dr. 

Herman Helinboltz 217 

Alternate Generation and Parthenogenesis in the Animal Kingdom. 

Lecture by Dr. G. A. Konibuber 234 

On the Present State of our Knowledge of Cryptogamous Pl.\kts. A 

lecture by Henry William Reicbardt 249 

Recent Researches on the Secular Variations of the Pl.vnetary Orbits, 

by John N. Stockwell 261 

On Some Methods of Interpolation Applicable to the Graduation of 

Irregular Series, sucb as tables of mortality, etc., by Erastus L. De Forest. 275 
Report on the Transactions of the Society of Physics and Natural His- 
tory OF Geneva, from June, 1870, to June, 1671, by Heniy De Saussuro 341 

Expedition toward the North Pole : 

Instructions to Captain Hall, by Hon. George M. Robeson, Secretary of 

the Navy 361 

Letter of Professor Joseph Henry, President of the National Academy of 
Sciences, with instructions to Captain C. F. Hall for the scientitic opera- 
tions of the expedition toward, the North Pole 364 

General directions in regard to the mode of keeping records, by J. E. Hil- 

gard. 367 

Astronomy, by S. Newcomb 367 

Magnetism, by J. E. Hilgard 369 

Force of gi-avity, by J. E. Hilgard 370 

Ocean physics, (depths, tides, currents, &c.,) by J. E. Hilgard 370 

Meteorology, (temperature, j)ressure of air, moisture, winds, precipitation, 
clonds, aurora, electricity, optics, meteors, ozone, miscellaneous,) by Joseph 

Henry 379 

Natural history, by S.F.Baird 379 

Geology, by F. B. Meek 381 

Glaciers, by L. Agassiz 385 

Ethnology : 

ludi.an mounds near Fort Wadsworth, Dakota, by Dr. A. J. Comfort 389 

Antiquities on the Cache la Poudre River, Weld County, Colorado Terri- 
tory, by E. S. Berthoud 402 

Antiquities in New Mexico, by W. B. Lyon 403 

Antiquities in Lenoir County, North Carolina, by J. Mason Spainhour 404 

Account of the old. Indian village, Kushlvuslikec, near Newcastle, Pennsyl- 
vania, by E. M. McConuell 406 

Pima Indians, of Arizona, by Caiitain F. E. Grossmaun 407 

Indian mode of making arrow-heads and obtaining fire, by General George 

Crook 420 

Ancient mound near Lexington, Kentucky, by Dr. Robert Peter 420 

Shell-heap in Georgia, by D. Brown, of New Jersey 423 

Remarks on an ancient relic of Maya sculpture, by Dr. Arthur Schott 423 

Ancient history of North America, communication to the Anthropological 

Society of Vienna, by Dr. M. Mucli 425 

On the language of the Dakota or Sioux Indians, by F. L. O. Rochrig 434 

Meteorology, with notes by Professor Henry 451 

Meteorology of Porto Rico, by George Latimer 451 

Meteorology of the Green River country, by Colonel Collins 453 

Distinction between tornadoes and tempests, by Lamark 455 

Account of a tornado which occurred iu Spruce Creek Valley, Centre County, 

Pennsylvania, by Rev. J. B. Meek 456 

Eftect of the moon on the weather 460 



CONTENTS. " 465 

Page. 
Metp:okology — Contiuuod. 

Connection of gales of wind, and appeai auce of the aurora, by R. T. Kuiglit, 
of Philadelphia 4(51 

Account of a etorm in Butler County, Kansas, June 23, 1871, by William 

Harrison, of El Dorado, Kansas 462 

ILLUSTRATIONS. 

Curve for formula for interpolations 322 

Ground plan of Pima house 409 

Ancient relic of Maya sculpture 423 

30 S71 



INDEX. 



Page. 

Additions to collections in 1871 43 

Agassiz, L., instructions to Captain Hall relative to Glaciers 387 

Agriculture, Department of, action of, in relation to meteorology 105 

Alcoholic collections, account of 30 

Algoe, fresh-water, by Dr. H. C. Wood 15 

Alternate generation and parthenogenesis in the animal kingdom 235 

Altitudes, circular printed 17 

Anderson, Benjamin, exploration to Musardo 20 

Antiquities. (See Ethnology.) 

Appendix, general 107 

Aijpropriations from Congress for Government collections 11, 101 

Arago, M., biography of Fourier 1 137 

Army Medical Museum Library 23 

Arrow-heads, Indian mode of making 420 

Astronomy, instructions for exploration to North Pole 3G7 

Astronomy. (See Herschel.) 
Astronomy. (See Stockwell.) 

Aurora, (see Meteorology) 375,451 

Baird, S. F., instructions to Captain Hall, (Natural history) 381 

Baird, Professor S. F., investigations of, as Commissioner of Fish and Fisheries.. 27 

Barnard, General J. G., on rotary motion 15 

Berthoud, E. S., antiquities in Colorado 403 

Botany. (See Eeichardt.) (See Hall.) 

Brown, D., shell-heap in Georgia 423 

Building, changes made in, and imi^rovements necessary 38 

Casts i>laced in National Museum 39 

Catlin, George, Indian cartoons and collections 40 

Catlin, George, Indian collection of, should be purchased by Government 41 

Certiticate of examination and approval of accounts 102 

Cesnola, Mr., collections from 33 

Chase, S. P., acts of, as Regent 104 

Chemistry. (See Graham.) 

Claparede, Edward, notice of 35G 

Coffin, Professor J. H., discussion of winds 24 

Colfax, S., acts of, as Eegent ■ 104 

Collaborators in natural history 31 

Collections, account of 26 

Collections, additions to 43 

Collins, Colonel, meteorology of Green Eiver country 453 

Colossochelys atlas, account of cast of, in museum 40 

Comfort, A. .J., Indian mounds in Dakota 389 

Congress, appropriations from, for Government collections 14, 101 

Congress, independent support of Museum by 14 

Contributions to knowledge, account of Smithsonian 15 

Cooke, H. D., acts of, as Eegent ..." 103,104 

Copyright system 23 

Correspondence of the Institution, account of 34 



468 INDEX. 

Page. 

Cox, S. S., acts of, as Kegeut -^ - 103 

Crook, George, Indian mode of making arrow-heads 420 

Cryptogamous plants, present knowledge of 249 

Cyprus, antiquities from 33 

Dakota grammar and dictionary 17 

Davis, G., acts of, as Eegent 103 

De Forest, Erastus L., methods of interpolation 275 

De Saussure, Henry, report on transactions of Geneva Society of Physics and 

Natural History , - 341 

De Saussure, Professor, monograph of Hymenoptera 16 

Distribution of duplicate specimens 31, 42 

Distribution of publications, rules for * 18 

Dodge, N. S., memoir of Herschel 109 

Donations to the Library 21 

Donations to the Museum 43 

Egyptian explorations. (See Fourier.) 

Estimates for 1871 ' 102 

Ethnological collections, account of 32 

Ethnology, articles on 309 

Indian mounds near Fort Wadsworth, Dakota, by A. J. Comfort 389 

antiquities on the Cache la Poudre Eiver, Colorado, by E. S. Berthoud 402 

antiquities in New Mexico, by W. B. Lyon 403 

antiquities in Lenoir County, North Carolina, by J. M. Spainhour.. . 404 
old Indian village, Kushkushkee, near Newcastle, Pennsylvania, by 

E. M. McConnell 40G 

Pima Indians of Arizona, by F. E. Grossmann 407 

Indian mode of making arrow-heads and obtaining fire, by George 

Crook 420 

ancient mound near Lexington, Kentucky, by Eobert Peter 420 

shell-heap in Georgia, by D. Brown 423 

ancient relic of Maya sculpture, by Arthur Schott 423 

ancient history of North America, by M. Much 425 

language of the Dakota or Sioux Indians, by F. L. O. Roehrig 434 

Exchanges, account of system of 18 

Exchange-agents of Smithsonian Institution 51 

Exchanges from America to Europe 52 

Exchanges from Europe to America 54 

Exchanges, regulatio^ns for 20 

Exchanges, statistics of - - - 51 

Executive Committee of the Institution 5 

Executive Committee, report of 99 

Expenditures from Smithson fund for 1871 100 

Explorations, account of 26 

Ferrell, William, on converging series 15 

Finances of the Institution in 1671 .l^i 99 

Fire, Indian mode of obtaining. 420 

Fishes' food, inquiries relative to, by Professor Baird 27 

Foreign institutions in correspondence with Smithsonian Institution 16, 19 

Fourier, Joseph, biography of, by M. Arago 137 

Franking privilege desired by Smithsonian 103, 105 

Freights free by railroad and steamship lines 19 

Fund, statement of Smithson 13, 99 

Fungi, researches on 249 

Garfield, J. A., acts of, as Eegent If*^ 

Gases, researches on. (See Graham.) 



INDEX. 461) 

tage. 

Generation and jiartheuogenesis in the animal kingdom 235 

Geneva Society of Physics and Natural History 341 

Geology, instructions for expedition to North Pole 381 

Geology, (see Fourier) 1C2 

Geology, report of Geneva Society 349 

Geology of Louisiana, by E. W. Hilgard 16 

Geometry. (See Fourier.) 

Gibbs, George, Indian arrow-heads 420 

Gibbs, George, Indian vocabularies 17 

Gill, Theodore, arrangement of mollusks 16 

Glaciers, instructions for expedition to North Pole 385 

Glyptodou, acconnt'of cast of, in Museum 40 

Government collections, expenditures 101 

Government, Smithsonian services to 36 

Graham, Professor Thomas, scientific work of 177 

Gravity, force of, instructions for expedition to North Pole 370 

Grossman, F. E., Pima Indians of Arizona 407 

Hall, Captain C. F., contributions to Museum by 32 

Hall, Captain C. F., instructions to, for expedition toward the North Pole 361 

Hall, Captain C. F., organization of North Polar expedition 35 

Hamlin, H., acts of, as Regent 103, 104 

Harkness, William, on magnetic observations 15 

Harrison, Joseph, aid to Mr. Catlin 41 

Harrison, William, storm in Butler County, Kansas, l>y 462 

Hawkins, B. Waterhouse, designs by, for Museum 39 

Hayden, Dr. F. V., explorations by 28 

Heat, historical analysis of radiant 157 

Helmholtz, Dr. H., relation of physical sciences to science in general 217 

Henry, Professor, acts of, as Secretary of Board 103, 104 

Henry, Professor, aun ual report of - 13 

Henry, Professor Joseph, instructions to Hall's expedition toward the North 

Pole 3G4 

Henry, Joseph, instructions on meteorology to Captain Hall 372 

Henry, Professor— Meteorological Notes 451 

Rain in the tropics 452 

Trade-winds 452 

Northers 452 

Constant wind from the west 455 

Snow on the great plains 455 

Cloud-caps ; 455 

Fall of barometer in tempests 456 

Tornadoes and tempests 456 

Cause of tornadoes 458 

Effect of the moon on the weather 460 

Cause of storms 400 

Attraction of Venus no effect on the weather 4G1 

Espy's artificial production of rain 461 

No connection of storms and aurora 401 

Hcrschel, John Frederick William, memoir of 109 

Hilgard, J. E., instructions to Captain Hall 307, 3C9, 372 

Hilgard, E. W., on geology of Louisiana 16 

History of North America, M. Much 425 

Indian languages, (see Roehrig) _ 434 

Indian mounds. (See Ethnology.) 



470 INDEX. 

Page. 

Indian vocabularies 17 

International copyright, importancQ of 23 

Interpolation, mctliods of, applicable to the graduation of irregular series, such 

as tables of mortality, etc 275 

lastitutions in correspondence with the Smithsonian Institution 16, 17 

lusnrancc-tables : 275 

Japan, aclmowledgraent for school-books sent to 37 

Jai>an, adoption of western civilization by 37 

Journal of the Board of Eegents 103 

Kampf, Dr., calculation of tables by 16 

Knight, R. T., connection of gales of wind and aurora 461 

Koruhuber, Dr. G. A., generation and parthenogenesis 235 

Kroeh, C. F., translations by 217,249,425 

Lamark, distinction between tornadoes and tempests 455 

Language of the Dakota or Sioux Indians, by F. L. O. Roehrig 434 

Latimer, George, meteorology of Porto Rico 451 

Libraries, rules of distribution of publications to 18 

Library, account of additions to 21 

Library, Army Medical Museum .'. . . 23 

Library of Congress 22 

Life-insurance tables 275 

Light-House Board, services rendered to, by Secretary of Smithsonian Institu- 
tion 36 

Lightning-rods, circular printed 17 

Liquids, researches on. (See Graham.) 

Lyceums, encouragement to 35 

Lyon, W. B., antiquities in New Mexico 403 

Maclean, John, report of Executive Committee 102 

Magnetism, instructions on, for expedition to North Pole 369 

Manzauo, Dr., account of relic from 423 

Mayo, Joseph, letter from, relative to Virginia bonds 105 

McConuell, E. M., letter from, relative to old Indian village, Kushkushkee, Penn- 
sylvania 406 

McMinn, Mrs. James A., valuable contributions from 28 

Medicine, report of Geneva Society of 353 

Meek, F. B., instructions by, to Captain Hall 3S4 

Meek, J. B., report of tornado in Spruce Creek Valley, Pennsylvania, by 456 

Megatherium, account of cast of, in Museum o9 

Members ex officio of the Institution 5 

Memoir of John Frederick William Herschel 109 

Joseph Fourier 137 

Tliomas Graham 177 

Edward Claparedo 356 

Augustus Waller 342 

Metagenesis, researches on 236 

Meteorology, account of Smithsonian system of 23 

Meteorological articles received by the Institution and deposited in the Library 
of Congress : 

Auroras 80 

Earthquakes 80 

Electricity 81 

Forests, influence of . , 81 

General meteorology 81 

Hail 82 



INDEX. 471 

, Page. 
Meteorological articles receivecT, &c. — Continued. 

Halos 82 

Instruments S2 

Local meteorology : 
Europe : 

Austria ^ S3 

Belgium 83 

Denmark 83 

Eugland and Scotland 83 

France 83 

Germany !r5 

Italy 8(3 

Netherlands 86 

Norway 86 

Portugal 86 

Russia 86 

Spain 87 

Sweden 87 

Switzerland 87 

North America : 

Canada 87 

Nova Scotia 87 

United States 87 

West Indies 88 

South America 88 

Australia 88 

New Zealand 69 

^ Asia 89 

Africa c9 

Magnetism 89 

Magnetic and meteorological 90 

Meteors 90 

Ocean currents and tides 93 

Ozone 93 

Pressure of the atmosphere 93 

Rain 93 

Snow 94 

Solar heat 95 

Storms and tornadoes , 95 

Telegraphic weather-reports 95 

Temperature 96 

Volcanoes 97 

Winds 97 

Zodiacal light 93 

Meteorological material received and kept in Smithsonian 75 

Meteorological stations and ohservers in 1871 63 

Meteorology, articles on 451 

Meteorology, notes on, by Professor Henry 451,452,455,456,458, 460,461 

of Porto Rico, by George Latimer 451 

of Green River country, by Colonel Collins - - 453 

distinction between tornadoes and tempests, by Lamark 455 

tornado in Spruce Creek Valley, Pennsylvania, by J. B. Meek 456 

effect of the moon on the weather, by J. Henry 460 

connection of gales of wind and aurora, by R. T. Knight 461 

storm in Butler Coiinty, Kansas, by William Harrison 462 



472 INDEX. 

Page. 
Meteorology, Commissioner of Agriculture discontitiues publication of observa- 
tions 105 

Meteorology, instructions for expedition to North Pole 372 

Meteorology, (see Henry) 451 

Meter commission in Europe 36 

Moon, effect of the, on the weather 460 

Morgan, L. H., on systems of relationship, by 15 

Mori, Mr. A., Japanese minister, aid rendered to 37 

Mortality-tables, methods of graduating 275 

Mounds. (See Ethnology.) 

Much, M., ancient history of North America, by 425 

Musardo, exploration to, by Benjamin Anderson 20 

Museum, account of work done in the , 30 

Museum, additions to collections in the 29, 30, 43 

Museum, distribution of duplicates from the 42 

Museum, entries in the record-books of 42 

National Academy, instructions to Captain C. F. Hall 364 

National Academy of Sciences 35, 364 

National Library, necessity for a new building for 22 

National Museum, approiDriations for 37 

National Museum, changes in building for 38 

Natural History, Geneva Society of, transactions of 341 

Natural history, instructions for expedition to North Pole 379 

Navy Department, instructions to Cajitaiu C. F. Hall 361 

Netherlands, bureau of exchanges 19 

Newcomb, S., instructions to Captain Hall 368 

Newcomb, S., on orbit of Uranus 16 

North Pole, instmctions to Captain Hall's expedition 361 

Ocean physics, instructions for expedition to North Pole 370 

Ocean wind-charts of the English board of trade 25 

Odling, William, on Professor Thomas Graham's scieutilic work , 177 

OfBccrs of the Institution.. 6 

O'Kielly, Henry, on discovery of electro-magnetic telegraph 104 

Parker, Peter, acts of, as Regent 103, 104 

Parker, Peter, report of Executive Committee 102 

Parthenogenesis in the animal kingdom, by Dr. G. A. Kornhuber 235 

Pealo, T. E., claim for portrait of Washington 104 

Peter, Eobert, ancient mound near Lexington, Kentucky 420 

Peters, Dr. C. H. F., communication from, relative to telegraphic announcement 

of discoveries of planets, etc , 103 

Physical science, relation of general science to, lecture on 217 

Physical Sciences, report of Geneva Society on 344 

Physiology, animal 235 

Physiology, report of Geneva Society of 351 

Physics, Geneva Society of, transactions 341 

Physics. (See Foui-ier.) 

Pima Indians, account of 407 

Planetary orbits, secular variations of the 261 

Plants, present knowledge of cryptogamous 249 

Poland, L. P., acts of, as Ecgcnt 103,104 

Polar expedition of Captain Hall 361 

Powell, Professor J. W., account of explorations by 26 

Powell, Professor J. W., appropriation for exploration recommended for 105 

Programme of organization 7 

Publications of the Institution .* 14 



INDEX. 473 

Page. 

Eailroad-liiies, free freights by 10 

Raiu-fall, Smitlisoniau publication relative to 1 r>, "J 1 

Receipts from Smitbsou fiiud for 1871 lOU 

Regents, journal of the board of 10:5 

Regents of the Institution, list of 5 

Regulations for international exchanges 20 

Relation of phj^sical sciences to science in general, lecture by Ilclniholtz on '-^17 

Reichardt, Henry William, present knowledge of cryptogamous phints '249 

Report, new edition frora stereotype-plates recommended 17 

Report of Professor Henry 13 

Report of the Executive Committee 1)9, 104 

Rhees, William J., list of institutions in United States, by 17 

Robeson, George M., instructions to Captain C. F. Hall ;Sl31 

Rtcbrig, F. L. 0., language of the Dakota or Sioux Indians 434 

Schieftelin, II. M., publication of Anderson's exploration of Jlusardo ))y 20 

School-books presented to Japan 37 

Schott, Arthur, ancient relic of Maya sculpture 423 

Science, importance of promoting abstract 37 

Science, relation of, to physical sciences 217 

Scientific .associations, encouragement to 35 

Seyft'arth, Dr. G. Tanis stone 34 

Shell-heaps. (See Ethnology.) 

Signal-service meteorological system 23 

Smith, F. O. J., relative to electro-niaguitic telegraph lO.j 

Smithsou's will 7 

Spainhonr, J. M., antiquities in North Carolina 404 

Stable erected on Suiithsonian grounds 104 

Stable on Smithsonian grounds 104 

Steamship-lines, free freights by 19 

Stockwell, John N., secular variations of the [)lanetary orl)its 15, 261 

Tanis stone, account of ; 34 

Telegraph, electro-magnetic. (See O'Rielly ; Smith.) 

Temperature, reductions of, account of 25 

i'hunder-storms, circular ])riuted 17 

Tornadoes and tempests, (see Meteorology) 451 

Trumbull, L., acts of, as Regent 103, 104 

Uhler, P. R., monograph of Hemiptera IG 

Virginia stocks 13, 99, 10.'., 104 

Vocabularies of Indian languages 17 

Waller, Dr. Augustus, notice of 342 

Ward, Henry A., casts presented by 39 

Washington, portrait of, claimed by T. R. Pealo 1 04 

Watson, Professor S., botany of region west of Mississippi IG 

Win<ls, discussion of, by Professor Coffin 24 

Wood, Dr. II. C, ou fresh- water algte 15 

Zoologj, re|)()rt of Geneva Society on 351 



